{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1840__townshend___facts_in_mesmerism.pdf","mytitle":"Facts In Mesmerism","mylang":"de"}
FACTS
IN
MESMERISM,
WITH
REASONS
FO'I.
A DISPASSIONATE INQUmY INTO
BY THE
REV. CHAUNCY HARE TOWNSHEND, A.M.
LATE OF TIUNITT HALL, CAXB'I.IDGB.
" A great perturblllon In nature!- to receive at once the benefit or
aleep, and do the etrects of watching. In thla alumbery agitation, bealdea
her walking and. other actual perfonnancea, what, at any time, have you
heard her a&)' ?"- SaAitiPII.lU.
" I'II charm your blood with pleallng heavioeu,
Making such dllll>reoce 'twls.t sleep and 'wake,
AI Ia the dlft'erence 'twls.t night and dar, -
The hour before the heaveoly-harneu'd team
Beglnaltl golden progreuln the eut." SHAitSP&ARI.
LONDON:
LONGMAN, ORME, BROWN, GREEN, & LONGMANS,
P.l.TBILNOSTBR·ROW,
1840.
Lo!UIOII:
Printed by A. I!I'O!Tili\VOOOJI,
New..street.ISquare.
INTRODUCTORY EPISTLE.
TO JOHN ELLIOTSON, M. D. CAIIlTAB. F.R.S.
MY DEAR SIR,
ON seeing that I dedicate the following pages
to you, the world will, perhaps, be kind enough to
say - " Here is a Coalition I" I not the less fear-
lessly place the work under your auspices ; trusting
that some persons at least may conceive that two may
be of one mind on a subject, and yet guiltless of a
conspiracy against Church or State - Truth or
Science. And what ifwe are ranged under the sanu~
banner? Union is not Treason ; -and I trust that
there is no harm in our being equally impressed with
a conviction ofthe reality of Mesmerism, and equally
animated by a resolution to disclose honestly that
which we know certainly. Here, then, is our coali-
tion- ifany one so chooses to te1·m it,- a coalition
to defend truth - and not to spread imposture.
Perhaps, however, it may be as well to state (lest we
should leave too much to the sagacity of those who
ameli a plot in every thing), that I have punued my
A2
iv INTRODUCTORY EPISTLE.
mesmerical researches entirely apart from yourself;
nay, on the other side of the Channel; and that, yet
more, we were but recently made acquainted, by
letter only - through the medium of a mutual friend,
who is not a mesmeriser, but a public functionary and
man of letters. Again : let it be known that I never
had the pleasure of seeing you till within the last two
months; though, indeed, I must add, that I think it a
loss not to have made your acquaintance earlier. It
was said ofsome great man -Burke, I think, - that
you could not stand up with him under a shed during
a shower of ·rain, without finding out that you were
in company witlt a fine genius. The remark may be
applied, with.some diversity, in most cases. Our first
impressions of persons are often an instinctive judg-
ment, of which our after feelings towards them are
only a developement; and, with regard to yourself in
particular, I am not singular in remarking, that to
converse with you, but for a quarter of an hour, is to
carry away a pledge of your honour as a gentleman,
and ofyour sincerity as a man ofprinciple ; and this,
independently of the knowledge that, to the cause of
truth, you have made every sacrifice except that of
integrity. I must speak my opinion,- though at
the risk of being suspected offlattery. You, at least,
shall not have the credit of countenancing the pane-
gyric, as this letter will only be read by you on the
day it is given to the public.
INTRODUCTORY EPISTLE. v
These things ought to be known; - for they are
testimony to mesmerism. Here are two persons, in
different countries, wholly unconnected, setting out
on an inquiry by different paths, and yet meeting, at
length, in one common conclusion and point of union.
As regards myself, I may affirm that no one could
possibly have taken up and pursued a subject more
independently, or in a more unbiassed manner than
I have taken up and pursued mesmerism. I have
not drawn my ideas of it from books, but from ex-
perience; I have even abstained from reading articles
on it, lest I should lose the originality and freshness
of personal observation. But I need not insist on
this.
My work itself contains internal testimony that our
coincidence of opinion is honest, not concerted ; -
for, in truth, we differ while we agree. I have not de-
scribed, because! haveneverseen, thecurious delirium,
and coma, which some of your patients have dis-
played. Not being myself of the medical profession,
I have naturally treated mesmerism as a phenomenon
of our nature, rather than as a curative means;
and the maladies, which you have so successfully
combated by the new agency, have of course pro-
duced modifications in its action, which the healthy
subjects to whom I have confined my practice could
not have displayed. However various the degrees
of mesmeric developem<>nts portrayed by me, tht!
A 3
vi INTRODUCTORY EPISTLE.
principal features of the state have been similarly
characterised throughout, my object being to de-
lineate that species of mesmeric sleepwaking, which,
I conceive, may be induced, to a certain extent, in
any indifferent person. So far we are shown as
drawing from separate and independent sources; and
this involuntary kind of testimony is favourable to
our cause : but, inseparable from this benefit, is a
collateral disadvantage, on which I must briefly touch.
The greater part of the London, I may say of the
English, world have derived their ideas of mesmer-
ism from your experiments, which so many have
personally witnessed. Hence the general reader,
comparing his preconceptions on the subject with the
portrait I have set before him, may surmise that the
new science is not in unity with itself, confounding,
by a very common mistake, diversity with discre-
pancy. But, in truth, while there is much that is
different in our facts, there is nothing whatever that
is contradictory. The subject is large, and cannot
but present itself in various points of view to various
observers. Even where we most appear to disagree,
it must be remembered that the same phenomenon
may have more than one phasis, just as the celebrated
shield, that was black on one side, was not the less
certainly white on the other. Thus, it is very true
that a kind of delirium may be developed under
mesmeric influence, while, at the same time, it is
INTRODUCTORY EPISTLE. vii
capable of eliciting the highest state of moral and in-
tellectual advancement, towhich man, in this existence,
can probably attain. This remark is the more neces-
sary to be made, inasmuch as, throughout my w01·k, I
have labouredtoprove the mesmeric condition a rise on
our actual mode of being ; and, according to the view
I have taken of the subject, if it be not this, it is no-
thing. For what does a writer achieve, who does ~ot
contribute, in however small a measure, to the hopes
and welfare of humanity ?
It has struck me that the world, who is very fond
of proving that an author did not write his own book,
may inquire- What share had Doctor Elliotson in
this treatise ? I therefore think it not perhaps al-
together useless to state, that neither yourself, nor
any body else, has dictated or suggested to me one
opinion which is therein contained. The only debt
that I have to acknowledge, is on the trifling score of
some advice respecting the terms to be employed in
writing on this particular subject. You observed to
me, that the phraseology of mesmerism could not too
soon be fixed, and rendered precise ; and you sug-
gested the substitution of Mesmeric Sleepwaking for
Induced Somnambulism, on the ground that Som-
nambulism, strictly speaking, was not always, nor
necessarily, an adjunct of the condition I wished to
describe. In all other respects, the faults or merits
of the publication must be charged on my own head.
viii INTRODUCTORY EPISTLE.
For the former, indeed, as probably numerous, few
persons would like to become responsible ; and on
their account (et~pecia1ly should any repetitions dis-
figure my pages), I shall have to claim indulgence
f1·om my readers, in consideration of the circum-
stances under which the work was composed; one
part being despatched from abroad to the printer,
while other portions were written at distant intervals,
as health and opportunity permitted. I know not,
however, whether, on the whole, a residence on the
Continent has not been favourable to the consider-
ation of such a subject as mesmerism ; for I can assure
my countrymen that their' own prejudices respecting
it are no measure of the reception which it meets
with from enlightened foreigners. I have scarcely
conversed with one pel'Son of education in Germany,
who was not able to detail to me some interesting
fact relating to mesmerism, which had been per-
sonally witnessed and authenticated; and every
where abroad, during those travels which in search of
health I have undertaken, my information respecting
this remarkable phenomenon of our nature has been
extended. Opportunities also of mesmerising differ-
ent individuals (many of them distinguished for rank
and science) have been freely and agreeably acc01·ded
me. Since I sent to England a list of the persons I
had mesmerised, I have expel'imented on some thirty
others at Rome, Naples, &c., and I have sti11 found the
INTRODUCTORY EPISTLE. ix
proportion stated in my work of mesmerisable indivi-
duals singularly preserved, and the phenomena exhi-
bited perfectly accordant with previous observation.
In the Appendix, some documents relative to these
experiments will be found, some of which are of
high interest; especially those from the pen of Pro-
fessor Agassis of NeufchAtel, and of Signor Ranieri,
the distinguished historian of Naples.
But I am insensibly converting a letter to you
into an addrt>ss to the general readt>r, and I perceive
I have so far extended a dedication as to render a
preface unnecessary. For this service, at least, let
me thank you. I have always thought prefaces very
troublesome things to write. And are they not, in
fact, pieces of falseness throughout? standing first,
though written last - expressing a humility which
the author does not feel -and claiming the especial
attention of everybody, while it is a wonder if they
are read by anybody. I therefore not unwillingly
take this opportunity of making my introductory bow
to the Public, while at the same time I beg you to
believe me,
My dear Sir,
With sentiments of high respect,
Yours very sincerely,
C. HARE TOWNSHEND.
lnnspruck, Nov. 25.1839.
CONTENTS.
BOOK I.
Page
Review of the Causes that have made Mesmerism unpopular,
and which render it a Subject difficult to be treated
BOOK II.
SECT. I.
Mesmeric Somnambulism, or, more properly, Sleepwaking • 4i
SECT. II.
Showing the Claims of Mesmeric Sleepwaking to be considered
a pecoliar Condition of Man • 88
SECT. III.
Showing c:ertain of the physical ancl metapbysical Conditions of
Mesmeric Sleepwaking • 1S4
BOOK III.
SECT. I.
Conformity of Mesmerism with our general Ellperience • • !69
SECT. II.
On the 'Metmeric Conaciousness • 295
SECT. III.
On Mesmeric Senation • Sl!l
xii CONTENTS.
SECT. IV.
On the Medium of Mesmeric Senaation
BOOK IV.
The 1\fesmeric 1\ledium
SUPPLEMENT.
Testimony of A. Vandevyver
- - - - M. Van Owenhuysen
- - - - Dr. Foissac
- - - - Viscount N--
- - - - Baron de Carlowiz -
----a Friend
---Dr. Wild
- - - - Professor Agassis
- - - - Dr. Filippi
- - - - Signor Ranieri
Errata
Page
-S90
- 409
- 54S
- 546
- 551
- 554
- 556
- 559
- 565
- 567
- 572
- 57S
- 576
..
MESMERISM.
BOOK I.
REVIEW OF THE CAUSES THAT HAVE MADE MESMERISM
UNPOPULAR, AND WHICH RENDER IT A SUBJECT
DIFFICULT TO BE TREATED.
HAVING had many opportunities of convincing myself
that man can really influence his fellow in the manner
called mesmeric, I have detennined to arrange and
classifythe phenomena, relative to this influence,which
have fallen under my observation, in the hope of re-
ducing them to a few simple and general principles.
In thus coming forward, I am fully aware of the ob-
stacles which I have to encounter. The fatal word
Imposture has tainted the subject of my inquiry; and
Ridicule, which is not the test of truth, has been
pressed into the service oftalent, in order to annihilate
the supposed absurdity before the dread ordeal of a
laugh.
But it is not only the witty who have set up mes-
B
MESMERISM.
merism as the mark of their fine arrows; men ol
science have attacked it, because they could not make
it harmonise with their preconceived notions; and
many of the Galens of our day, instead of wisely
taking it under their patronage, and into their own
hands, have trE'.ated it with a desperation ofhostility ;
· -as if, were it allowed to flourish, their glory was
tarnished and their " occupation gone."
What is worse, some of the friends and supporters
of mesmerism have done it more disservice than its
bitterest foes. Instead of setting before the world
the simplest features of the new discovery, they have
at once produced to view its most astounding marvels,
thus dazzling into blindness the eyes which, by a
more cautious conduct, they might have taught to
see.-Then it cannot be denied that the name of
Mesmerism, or Animal Magnetism, has sometimes
served as a watchword to exploded quackery and
impudent deceit: and who does not know how diffi-
cult it is to separate the merits of any doctrine from
the faults of its partisans ? Mesmerism has occa-
sionally been found in company with the vicious and
the designing; and its good repute has suffered
accordingly.
Another circumstance has contributed to the dis-
grace of this unfortunate subject. In its palmy days,
when De Maineduc plunged his visionary fingers
into the stomachs of gouty earls and dyspeptic mar-
chionesses, nothing less was expected from the new
remedy than the renovation of human nature, and
an absolute conquest over all diseases. That it should
HESliERISH.
mbsequently fhll into oblivion, will not astonish those
who have observed the invariable fate ofevery fashion-
able panacea- of Peruvian bark, for example. From
thinking that it can perform everything, men doubt
whether it is capable of anything; and the more ex-
travagant have been the hopes which it has excited,
the more deep is the disgust which disappointment
naturally creates.
But mesmerism has been looked upon as worse
than false or nugatory. Many, who have believed
in its powers, have believed only to tremble. Cre-
dulity bas done it worse service than incredulity.
It has been proscribed as an unholy thing : books
have been written upon its dangers; the good
Catholic croBSeS himself when he names it ; and the
careful Protestant, even if he hesitates to brand it as
diabolical, thinks at least that it may be prostituted
to evil purposes. And so it undoubtedly may be. But
then the same objection applies to all that is most
beneficial upon earth. All great engines are capable
of great perversion. This is tacitly allowed in the
whole conduct oflife. Yet we do not abstain from the
use of fire because it can destroy, nor from the
medical application of laudanum because it is a
poiSon.
That the world's quarrel against mesmerism
should be so very bitter, is hardly accounted for by
any of the foregoing considerations. Primd. facie,
one would say that there were attractions in this
despised doctrine, more than sufficient to countervail
every objection that might be brought against it.
B2
)IESMERISM.
Fond as we are of the sh!ldowy and the unknown,
its very mystery might seem congenial to our nature ;
and even those vague suspicions concerning its sin-
fulness which hover darkly round it, might be sup-
posed to have a charm for man - the wilful- who
rushes to the forbidden with so keen a zest. But
there is a sort of unexplained odium attached to
mesmerism, which quells curiosity and deadens in-
terest. From this odium it appears almost necessary
that I should raise my subject, before entering fully
upon it; I must secure a hearing before I can plead
my cause ; I must show that there is in itself no in-
herent fault, which can justly exclude it from a fair
and candid examination. This end, as it appears to
me, I shall best attain by exposing the primary causes
which have degraded mesmerism; and by showing
that these are extrinsic to itself.
Having done this, I propose, also, to touch upon
the reasons that make the subject I have chosen not
only distasteful to the general reader, but of extreme
difficulty to the Author himself.
First. The original cause of the ill reception which
mesmerism has met with from the world, is undoubt-
edly to be found in the character of its discoverer
- Mesmer, - in his want of candour and philosophic
strictness. Had it been introduced to notice by a
Newton or an Arago, by one who would have stated
his facts honestly, and drawn from them none but
legitimate conclusions, the difference of its career·
may be estimated by all who are aware how much,
depends upon a propitious beginning. But unfortu")
MESMERISM.
llately, from the very outset, mesmerism was asso-
ciated with the soiling caJculations of self-interesft
and the errors of an over-heated brain. Mesmer
wished to make a monopoly of that which should
have been the property of all mankind : he sold his
secret- he bartered for gold his futllre fame and
the reputation of his darling subject • ; and, losing
the light which emanates only from an upright spirit,
he ~me the dupe of his own miracles, so miserably
as to surround his reaJly simple and sublime disco•
very with fictitious terrors and misleading puerilities.
The result of this moral and scientific suicide has
been the degradation of mesmerism. First asso-
ciations are, from the very law of our minds, all but
indestructible; and therefore it is that with a few
original thinkers alone one can hope to replace the
subject on its true and primitive footing- namely,
its own merits. The false bas been so blended with
the true, that it is no wonder that both should be
rejected together. The w.aters come not to us pure,
but from a fountain-head that is itself disturbed and
sullied; so that, instead of spreading forth into a lucid
mirror, reflecting heaven and earth, and enlivening
all around, they stagnate in a thick and blinding
• In jnstice to the memory of Mesmer, it should be stated
that against the fact of his having sold his magnetic secrets for
a hundred louis to each ca~~didate for initiation, should be set.
certain extenuating circumstances, which are related in Mr.
Colquhoun's Isis Revelata, vol. i. p. 237.
B 3
.MESMERISM.
marsh. Had mesmerism been announced to the
world, not as a studied enigma, but in the form of a
simple proposition ; had all men been invited to test
the truth of the principle, and to investigate the laws
of its operation; had it been practised in unostenta-
tious privacy instead of crowded assemblies ; had
there been in the chambers devoted to its service,
neither mystical machines nor exciting music, no
convulsionaries, no hysterical women ; had mesmer-
ism from the first appeared that which it eminently
is -:- a spirit of calmness and of reason; then had it
interested the scientific and conciliated the wise ; then
had it been transmitted to the present age pure and
unenveloped by the mists of prejudice. The mere
fact that man can produce a kind of slumber in his
fellow-man by a few and simple means, is surely not
to be confounded with the heap of abaurdities attached
to it. To say that the one is inextricably and neces-
sarily linked with the other, were want of sense as
well as of candour; and, unless we choose to admit a
principlewhichwould make even our religion answera-
ble for the sins committed in its name, we must
~ow that mesmerism is in no way affected either by
the errors of its partisans or the prepossessions of its
enemies.
Secondly. As mesmerism was ill-omened in its birth,
so also was it unfortunate in its baptism. Shak-
speare's often-quoted query finds here, if no where
else, its answer ; - and we are forced to reply -
There is much in a name, except where true love or
true philosophy renders the mind insensible to those
JIBIMBRISH.
externals which are all in all with the generality of
mankind.
The ds,erviee rendered to mesmerism by ita
name, is this 'J ~It has turned men from true in~
quiry, and,1
1ike a tub thrown out to the whale, has
served as an object of attack, while the real point in
debate has remained untouched altogether. We have
asked whether such a pmDer as mesmerism exists;
when we should rather have demanded whether there
is a .tate so denominated. It will at once be seen in
what material respects the two questions differ. The
first presumes, even while it professes to seek, a
specific cause for certain phenomena ; - the second
merely regards the phenomena themselves, and in-
quires- Do such and such facta exist? Each in-
quiry should be kept carefully distinct, and yet they
have unfortunately been mixed up together ; or rather
an unhappy priority has been granted to the first, in-
volving the very existence ofthe second. For it is plain
that when we demand, "Is there such a power as mes
merism ?" the answer may ever be "No;" and then,
by a too common injustice,we extend the negative over
the whole question, there being but few who will not
confound a mistake and the object mistaken in one
general anathema. Did we, however, clearly per-
ceive that " Power is nothing more than the relation
of one object, or event, as invariably antecedent to
another object or event,"• we should perceive that
the facts called mesmeric, have as much claim to be
• Brown's Philosophy ofthe Human Mind.
B4
a MESMERISM.
·considered realities, as if indeed there were a mag-
netic power or influence.
Of the error of the mesmerists in bestowing an ill-
judged appellation, the opposite party have taken
ample advantage. They have thrust forward the un-
lucky cognomen into the very van of discussion, and
have thus compelled an inquiry into the cause of
mesmerism, before the phenomena could be well
considered. Surely it must be conceded that so
singular an inversion of true philosophical investiga-
tion cannot but have provedhighly detrimental to the
subjeet of our discussion. In what other matter
have we acted so strangely as to inquire into the
secret cause, before men are well agreed.respect-
ing the visible effects ? Do we not, in conducting an
important analysis, first ascertain the phenomena,
their .characteristics, and the circumstances under
which they appear ; and then, after long and careful
induction, name -but with caution- some pervad-
ing principle into which they may all be harmoniously
J"esolved? Not only is it natural thus to commence a
course of reasoning with what is nearest to our ap-
prehensions, but, by so doing, we secure that essential
requisite to an argument -a firm and undebateable
ground, where both he who would convince, and he
who is to be persuaded, may meet as on a neutral ter-
ritory, and, taking a common point for starting, be
advantaged with at least a probability of arriving at
a common conclusion. Facts are this neutral ground;
-facts are this point of vantage ;- for it is to be re-
marked that respecting ou~ward and visible pheno-
MESMERISM:.
lhena thereisordinarily but little differenceofopinion,
while, in reference to hidden causes, men ever are
and must be divided. For instance, every one knows
the sensation of light, and may convince himself, if
he pleases, that under such and such circumstances,
such and such phenomena do occur. So far mankind
are agreed : but when we would assign the primary
cause oflighta.Rd its phenomena, we find the war com-
menced, and opinions far divided - some adopting
the undulatory theory, while others fondly cling to
the Newtonian doctrine of emitted rays.
It is no \Vonder, then, thatthe premature assumption
of a specific cause for the phenomena of mesmeric
somnambulism should have shockedmen in the outset,
and have indisposed them, through the medium of
their prejudices, for calm investigation. Under this
head of offence may be classed, also, such technical
expressions ·as "magnetised water," "magnetised
trees," &c. The ideas, which these terms convey,
are vague and unpleasing. Who can tell that their
meaning simply is, -water, or trees, breathed upon,
or touched by the hand, after a certain formula? The
vocabulary of every science has been, to the unin-
itiated, foolishness; - but the nomenclature of mes-
merism is worse: it has been a scare-crow even to
the wise.
I confess that of all the causes, which have con-
tributed to render mesmerism unpopular, this is to
me the most discouraging. To make a dispute
verbal is to make it endless, and the erroneous way
in which our subject has been considered, has trans-
B 5
10 liiESMEBISM.
ferred its merits from things to words- a sad and
barren exchange J- All hope of an accommodation
between the friends and foes of mesmerism is thus
rendered doubtful. How, indeed, can they calmly
discuss the matter, when the first bare mention of it
is a sort of Slogan or battle-yell, that raises a conflict
sufficient to drown the voice of Reason for ever?
How shall they decide a truth, whose fate depends
upon the propriety or impropriety of its name ?. How
shall they adjudge the real business in band, seeing
that preliminaries can never be adjusted? The
subject has indeed fallen into the very Chancery
Court of Philosophy.
That men should be so easily entrapped into pur-
suing a shadow, while the substance has eluded their
observation, may seem strange; but, words being the
media of our thoughts, we are naturally 80 influenced
by them that eventhemost clear-judgingfindit difficult
not to be diverted by a verbal inaccuracy from more
important matters. The fate of Hartley's Theory of
Sensation is a proof of this. All the world fastened
so vehemently upon the unlucky term " vibration,"
and were 80 intent upon proving that the soft and
loose chords, which compose the nervous system,
could never properly be said to vibrate, that the true
merits of a very beautiful hypothesis were over-
looked.
Thirdly. Nearly connected with the erroneous nam-
ing of mesmerism, is the circwnstance next in order,
which bas thrown a blight ovel' its pretensions, -I
mean the decision, in its disfavour, of the French
Academy, in 1784. Since then, it has been con-
MESMERISJI, lJ
sidered as worse than unexamined;- it has been
conceived to have undergone examination, and to
have been found worthless. Since then, to revive an
interest upon such a condemned subject has been
nearly as impossible as to restore life to a corpse by
galvanism. Since then, instead of a mystery, it has
been regarded as a delusion ; and the world has
turned away from it with the same sort of fiat dis-
appointment which we experience, when, after
having trembled at the haunted chambers, dusky
veils, and heaving coverlids of a romance, we are
chilled into our sober senses by the earthly explana-
tions of its concluding pages. The magician's wand
is broken for ever: we like to be frightened, but
hate to find ourselves deceived. The attractive ever
perishes with the supernatural. But to those who
read and inquire for themselves, there is nothing
whatever in the decision of the French Academy of
Science which can be considered as destructive of
mesmerism. What is it that the Academy decided?
Few know, -few care to inquire. A general im-
pression has gone abroad, that· mesmerism received,
in 1784, its coup tk grace ; and there men are con-
tent to let the matter rest ; for are they not thus saved
the trouble of thinking ? How pleasant to believ~
in the eternal banishment of a subject, concerning
which, the idle, the self-interested, and the prejudiced
have .each their several motives for saying, as some
honest churchman did of the Athanasian Creed, "I
wish we were well rid of it." The blessed consum-
mation is not, however, so easy of attainment; for
B 6
12 MESMERISM.
what is the truth? The French Academy merely
decided that there was not sufficient evidence to show
that the phenomena called magnetic are caused by
the action of a fluid. As to the phenomena them-
selves the Academy not only allows them, but, as it
appears to me, concedes the real question in debate,
in terms the most explicit. These are the verywords
in which the examiners sum up their report. " Ce
que nons avous appris, ou, du moins, ce qui nons
a ete confirme d'une maniere demonstrative et
evidente par l'examen des procedes du magnetisme,
c'est que l'homme peut agir sur l'homme ii tout moment,
et presque ii volonte, en frappant son imagination;
c'est que les gestes, et les signes les plus simples
peuvent avoir les plus puissans effets; c'est que
!'action de l'homme sur !'imagination peut-etre
reduite en art, et conduite par une methode, sur
des sujets qui ont la foi."•
Translating the above as literally as possible, we
find that the Commissioners have thus expressed
themselves: -
" That which we have learnt, or, at least, that
which has been proved to us, in a clear and satis-
factory manner, by our inquiry into the phenomena
of mesmerism, is - that man can act upon man, at all
times and almost at will, by striking his imagination ;
- that signs and gestures the most simple may pro-
duce the most powerful effects ; that the action of
• Expotre des Expmences qui ont~tefaites pourl'Examen du
Magnetisme .Animale. Paris, 1784.
MESMERISM. 18
man upon the imagination may be reduced to an art,
and conducted after a certain method, when exercised
upon patients who have faith in the proceedings."
The above passage will show that the French
Academy decidedly agrees with the first promoters
ofmesmerism as to the existence of certain remark-
able phenomena : it is only respecting the cause that
the two are at issue ; the one asserting that it is a
fluid- the other that it is imagination. Whether
the latter may not herein be as guilty of a non-
sequitur as the former, we may hereafter consider.
At present I merely remark that, granting the
magnetic phenomena to spring from the imagination,
we do not thereby condemn them to contempt, or
oblivion; far less do we (as some persons seem to
suppose) abrogate them altogether.
Were mesmerism only viewed as illustrative of
the mind's influence upon the organisation, it would
hold out high claims to notice. What subject, we
may ask, is more fertile of important reflections?
Materialists, curiously enough, adduce it to disprove
mesmerism, which makes against their views of man
as a mere machine- of thought as a mere elabora-
tion of the brain ;-but, in so doing, they open a
field of speculation, which they would be sorry to
enter upon further than they find convenient. In
the very terms of their dissent, they admit of two
·things of a wholly different nature-that is, the
imagination and the organisation; - the first not
only modifying the action of the latter, but actually
·mastering it altogether. Granting that the imagin-
.,
ation can influence the bodily frame to the extent
allowed by the French Academy in its report on
mesmerism; if what they say be true:-" Noua
avons vu !'imagination exaltee devenue assez puis-
sante pour faire perdre en un instant 1a parole."-
" We have seen the imagination, when exalted,
become powerful enough to make a penon lose the
faculty of speech in a moment :"-if we believe this,
then indeed we admit of a motive force, to which we
can hardly set bounds, and which makes mesmerism,
with all its pretensions, a feeble and unnecessary
agent. The supposition of an existing fluid can add
nothing to miracles like these. By demonstrating
the omnipotence of mind over organisation, the
opponents of mesmerism prove too much. They
bring us to a point where it is only one analogical
step further to inquire, whether the force, which can
so act on the organisation to which it is attached,
may not, peradventure, extend its influence to a
sphere external to itself? For peremptorily answer-
ing this question in the negative, we can assign no
reason, but that external offices for such an agent
come not within the pale of our experience;-and
reasoning like this we cannot but reject as an
effectual bar to all inquiry whatever. . We must
remember that human experience is ever on the
increase, and that there exists not one power, even
the most palpable, of which we can affirm that we
have ascertained all the functions. There is not a
discovery of modem times, but teaches us that the
force which performs some things whereof we are
IIBSliiERISH. Ill
cognisant, may also perform others of which we
have, as yet, no notion whatever. Let my reader
bear in mind, that I by no means affirm that the
imagination is the agent in mesmerism, internally or
externally. All I mean to assert is, that the careful
French Academy, and their subsequent followers,
have gone further than the rilagnetisers themselves,
in attributing power to mind, and in relating
wonders to prove that power. Say what we will, the
important point in mesmerilm, - the influence of
man upon his fellow,-was conceded by the French
Academy in no doubtful terms;- tkrlRl!Jh the ima·
gination, it is true ; yet still it is conceded. The
imagination is but considered as the means ; man is
still the agent. Are the phenomena themselves
altered by being referred to the imagination, instead
ofa magnetic fluid? Not in the least. Do we com·
prebend them better, when so referred? By no
means. We only seem so to do, because in the one
case they are referred to a cause of which we cannot
but confess our ignorance ; while, in the other, they
are attributed to the action of a power which we
think (how vainly !) that we comprehend.
Fourthly. The fourth cause, which bas banished
mesmerism from the rank and position to which it is
entided, is the early attempt to assimilate it to the
certain sciences in an erroneous manner. In our
:researches into the discovery of Mesmer, we have,
from the beginning, struck into a path which never
could lead us to the desired end ; and then, most
unreasonably, we have charged upon the subject of
l6 MESMERISM.
our inquiry the fault which existed in ourselves.
Because we have found nothing, when we did not
seek aright, we have impatiently concluded that
there was nothing whatever to be found. Perhaps·
the error has originated with the Mesmerists them-
selves. To secure the suffrage of scientific men for
their favourite pursuit is evidently desirable. How
should they accomplish this? The days are long
since past, in which men were content to reason after
the vague mode of the Aristotelian philosophy, which
leant upon conjecture rather than experiment, and
discussed absurdities as gravely as the ordinary phe-
nomena of nature. The world has reached an era,
in which facts, attested by the senses, independent of
the human will, and invariably reproduced under the
same circumstances, can alone engage the attention
of the learned. With the scientific men of our day,
(and far be it from me to censure this) certainty is
the great object. In order, then, to claim the notice
and the fostering protection of science, the friends of
mesmerism have long endeavoured to identify their
presumed agent with physical forces, already ascer-
tained and of invariable action. In their principle,
perhaps, they are right - in its application, wrong
altogether. Forgetting that mesmerism is a mental
and vital, not less than physical phenomenon, and
that mind and life are in perpetual opposition to the
laws of the material world, they have endeavoured to
Tecognise in mesmerism an operation as constant as
that of the galvanic battery, or the electric vial. A
certain school of German writers, especially, have
MESMERISM. 11
theorised on our subject after the false method of
explaining one class of phenomena in nature by ita
fancied resemblance to another. Wishing, perhaps,
to avoid the error of the Spiritualists, who solve the
problem in debate by the power of the soul alone,
they have ransacked the material world for analogies
to mesmerism, till the mind itself has been endued
with its affinities and its poles. Such attempts as
these have done the greatest disservice to the cause
we advocate. They submit it to a wrong test. It is
as if the laws oflight should be applied to a question
in acoustics. It is as if we should expect to find in
a foreign kingdom the laws and customs of our own.
Thus wrongly biassed, we turn away from mesmerism,
as provoked at finding it other than we deemed it to
be; as the prince in the fairy tale, who found his
betrothed, though very charming, not in the least
like her portrait, and so sent her back in disgrace.
Who has not experienced a thousand times the same
feeling? We read, perhaps, a description of some
lovely scene ; we thence form an image of it in our
thoughts. We at length behold it, and are discon-
tented to find it endued, perhaps, with even more
beauty than we had imagined ; because the beauty is
ofa different kind. There is rock where we expected
smooth turf; ·there is wildness, where we looked for
cultivation; there is a withered oak, where we had
in fancy placed a human dwelling. If, in matters of
taste, preconceptions like these prepare the way for
disappointment ; in matters of reason they are not less
calculated to awake disgust. A science that is mis-.
18 JIE8liiERJSM.
conceived labOurs under peculiar disadvantage&;
Thus, then, till the initial step towards a comprehen-
sion of mesmerism be taken anew, there ia no hope
that it will ever be understood or appreciated. Why
unavailingly seek to reduce it to a formula of which
it is insusceptible ? If we ascribe it to a power
already ascertained, why not treat it, at least, as an
entirely new function of that power? Why limit it
to what we know, when possibly it may be destined
to extend the boundaries of our knowledge? Why
are we to be trammelled with foregone conclusions ?
Yet upou. these very restrictions, the opponents of
mesmerism insist; thus taking away from men the
means of investigating the agency in question, by
forcing them to set about it in the wrong way.
The case is the more perplexing, inasmuch as this
apparent unfairness is grounded on instinctive pro-
pensities ·of our nature, with which it were vain to
quarrel, since they are actually a part of man•s most
valuable inheritance and absolutely essential to the
whole conduct of life. Tilat attraction towards
sensuous objects, which is fitted to a being that lives
in a visible and tangible world, draws us inevitably
away from whatever shuns the senses to that which
may be seen and handled; and that constitution of
our minds, which leads us to rely on the invariable-
ness of nature•s sequences, necessarily brings with it
a love ofthe certain and the permanent. With tend-
encies like these, at once to be cherished and guarded
against, it is difficult to deal. Thus re6ecting, I am
not surprised at the hostile reception which mesmer-
XEIJIEBISX. 19
1sm has met with in almost every quarter- I see
dlat it could not have been otherwise. Unfortunately
too, those men who are the last to be gained over, are
generally the best worth gaining ; while those whose
habits of mind lead them to embrace the new doctrine
without hesitation, are mostly visionaries, who find
themselves more at home in the afthln of heaven
than of earth, and are ever more disposed to specu-
late wildly than to submit to the rules of strict and
severe analysis.
But, on the other hand, let it not be forgotten that
it is the province of man to mount from the known
to the unknown, and to reason from that which can
be seen to that which is invisible. If one strong
instinct teaches us to repose in the objects which lie
open to our immediate apprehension, another not less
powerful calls us imperatively to rise to the detection
of secret causes. And true wisdom consists in the
just balance of these two contending propensities.
Nor are we invited to ascend beyond the level of
more obvious things by the constitution of our minds
alone. Between the quenchless desire of our bosoms,
and the dispositions of the external world, there is a
harmony as perfect as it is beautiful. The simplest
of nature's sequences, should we trace it further up
the scale, conducts us inevitably to somewhat beyond
our visual ken, while at the same time we are encou-
raged to proceed, by our success in analysing the in-
visible and ascertaining the obscure. For instance,
by imperceptible exhalation and absorption, there
is carried on throughout the world a perpetual lOQ
20 MESMERISM.
and gain, conversion of substance, and exchange or
power, which is scarcely conceivable, yet which man,
in many instances, has reduced to rule, and expressed
in number. We have measured the undulations of
light, and the waves of sound. The microscope has
shown us worlds, of which our unassisted senses have
no cognisance; and science, aided by the telescope,
bas traced from stars, unseen by the naked eye, the
one great law of attraction prevailing to the very
verge of ascertained creation. Ought we, then, in
any case, to turn away from facts that indicate a
hidden in1luence, merely because that in1luenee has
not yet been tested by the senses ? Even our con~
duct in earthly matters will reprove us here. Of the
machinery, wrought by human hands, the results
alone are presented to vulgar view, while it is left to
the thoughtful and the wise, to explore the finer
springs and hidden motory powers. How much
more, then, in viewing the mechanism of the universe,
should we believe that we discern, as it were, only
the hands and the dial-plate, while, behind these, .
F' wheel within wheel involved" is hidden from our
gaze, in order to tempt our inquiry, and to develope
the higher part of our nature by the stimulus of
curiosity?
There is, then, in the nature of things no necessity
that mesmerism, because it is recondite, should be
unexplored. To investigate it may indeed be difficult;
but appears to be rather enjoined than forbidden -
enjoined by the tendencies of mind, not less than by
the constitution of matter. It may, however, still be
)IESMERISM', 21
lll'ged in reply, that the variableness, which must b&
granted, in some respects, to characterise mesmerism,
is the true disqualification which debal'!l it from the
realms of science. How, may it be argued, can that
which is confessedly irregular be shaped into a system ;
how can phenomena, which contradict each other at
every turn, admit of classification?
I answer that such an objection, ifcarried out into
a principle, would effectually arrest the progress of.
all human knowledge. It would mak,e us rest
satisfiec:t with the apparent and the superficial, when
we should be striving after the real and the profound.
It would make our own imperfect observation the
measure of Nature's regularity. Are we entitled
to conclude, in any case, that, because we have not
hitherto been able to assign a law to certain opera-
tions, they are therefore absolutely without law ?
Are we to assert that the orderly dispositions of the
universe are deformed by a monstrous exception, or
is it not wiser to believe that our own knowledge is
in fault, whenever Nature appears inconsistent with
herself ? Surely we have enough order around us
to suggest that all, which to us seems chance, is
4' direction which we cannot see';" that all apparent
anomalies are but like those discords which, in the
most masterly music, prepare the transitions from one
noble passage to another, and are actually essential
to the general harmony. In many instances, this is
not mere conjecture. How much of fancied imper-
f~tion and disorder has fled before our investigation !
The motions· of comets at fil'!lt appear to offer an ex-
MESMERISM.
c:eption to the exact arrangements of the universe.
They traverse all parts of the heavens. Their
paths have every possible inclination to the plane of
the ecliptic ; and, unlike the planets, the motion of
more than :half of those, which have appeared, has
been retrograde; - that is, from East to West.•
Yet have we been able to detect the elements of
regula.rity in the midst of all this seeming confusion,
and to predict with certainty the day, the hour, and
the minute, of a comet's return to our region of the
sky.
Experience also shows that apparently Insulated
and lawless phenomena may not only be reduced to a
law, but to a well-known law ; -that many a familiar
agent puts on strange disguises; and that events, with
which, in their mazy channels, we seem to be un•
acquainted, may be perfectly recognised by us at their
source. Thus galvanism and the magnetic force are
proved by recent discoveries to be only forms of elec-
tricity ; showing that a fact may be altered- not in
itself, but in the circumstances that surround it, and
that complexity of development is perfectly con-
sistent with unity of design. Instances like these,
while they encourage us to inquiry, should teach us
to believe that all which is needed to vindicate the
regularity ofnature is a more extended observation
on our parts.
Far, then, from granting that mesmerism is de-
• Mrs. Somenille's Connection of the Physical Sciences.
}laae 1."17.
barred from the ·province of strict analysis by an
apparent irregularity, I cannot admit that thent
exists in it one disqualitication, that has not equally
been shared, at one time or other, by every science•
.All that I concede, is that it is in a diiferent stage of
its existence, compared with subjects qf ascertained
knowledge. It must not be likened to optics, or
hydros~ in their actual development, but to
those sciences in their dim and early condition; when
rude guesses were accepted as substitutes for truth,
and when objects were discerned as mistily as the
landscape is -
" What time the shepherd, blowing of his nails,
Can neither call it perfect day nor night."
There is indeed this difference- the advances
that we have made in knowledge, generally, render it
more easy for us to study any subject in particular.
Still mesmerism (represented indeed by some as in
its dotage) is but in its infancy, and it is a folly to
call upon it to exhibit the features of a riper age.
Moreover the uncertainties of mesmerism have
been much exaggerated. I may ask, can that be so
irregular an influence, which the French Academy,
in the height of its learned displeasure, acknowledged
was. capable of being conducted by art and method ?
My own experiments, also, will hereafter show that
it. exhibits a definite " form and pressure, " and
iastif) the conjecture that it may have its own laWI
MESMERISM.
of certainty, though not precis.ely those to whMk we
would refer it.
On the whole it appears, there is no reason to con...
elude that mesmerism, because once wrongly pre-
sented to·science, should never be presented to science
at all; - that because its agent has not been ana-
lysed, it is therefore unfit for analysis ; or that
because often erroneously identified with known forces
it should at no time be found to be Connected with
them; but-
Fifthly. O~r impatience of whatever we cannot ac-
count for, has prevented, and will, I fear, long pre-
vent mesmerism from being righdy examined, or
even from being classed generally amongst realities.
This cause, at the basis of all the others, which
have, at any time, operated most powerfully against
mesmerism, deserves our particular attention.
This it is, which induced the friends of mesmerism
to bestow on it a name, and refer it to agents, which,
by seeming to indicate its origin, should render it
easier of belie£
This it is, which led. the members of the French
Academy of Sciences- not being able to get rid of
it altogether- to banish it to the airy realms of the
imagination. And this it is, which, at the present
day, can alone explain the standing miracle- as
.great as that of mesmerism itself-namely, that
facts, which~have been witnessed by thousands, should
be rejected as if no testimony to their truth bad ever
been offered.
If in inquiring into the deep grounds of thia
MESMERISM.. 25
singularity, I should trespass on my readers' pa-
tience, let the following consideration plead my
excuse. Every secret cause of the judgments we
form, in which the constitution of our own minds is
concerned, requires to be thoroughly probed and
exhibited in its soundness or unsoundness; for how
shall we attain to certain truth, unless sure of the
principles on which we seek it ? As he, who would
take an observation of the sun must first ascertain
that his instrument is correct~ so must we, before
examining nature, duly regulate the organ of our
perception.
Whence, then, arises it, that with the world in
general, "I comprehend not," is equivalent to "I do
not believe"?
Many of our most important and habitual modes
of thinking would seem to revolt against this error.
Granting that whatever is beyond the pale of our
knowledge is a delusion, we, by parity of reasoning,
must deny the existence of ourselves, and, conse-
quently, of all external things: for the soul is an un-
solved problem, and man is the great anomaly of
creation. · Yet thus do we not argue? On the con-
trary, we not only acknowledge that we are, but cease
not to inquire what we are, ever studying the volume
of our intellectual being, in order to discover some
law, which should be to mind what attraction is to
matter. Consenting thus to take our minds as we
find them, and to observe and to ascertain rather than
to decide and to excommunicate, why is it that, on so
many other occasions, we pursue a directly contrary
c
16 l'lfESMEBISM.
course? For thisreason. Withregard to ourselves,our
own consciousness compels us to begin by recognising
the reality ofcertain phenomena ; but, with regard to
other things, we are at liberty to speculate before we
examine. Unless restrained by some strong control-
ling force, our natural tendency is ever to rush
onward to causes and conclusions - to simplify and to
generalise- and hence to dismiss from our consider-
ation whatever does not harmonise with our own sys-
tems. This propensity to resolve the complex and
the partial into the simple and ultimate appears to be
a part of our original constitution, and is one ofthose
strong impulses which seem made to carry us too far,
lest they should fail of carrying us far enough. By
it we trace that unity amidst variety, which stamps
creation as the work of one hand ; but by it also we
are led to invert the true process of reasoning, and
to snatch at the higher antecedents of nature's se-
quences, before we have brought the lower within
our grasp. Those comprehensive principles which
are, in truth, the latest fruit of experienr.e, we
would force to our impatience, and n1ature at our
pleasure. All knowledge being identified with a
progression towards primary causes, and primary
causes being of necessity the simplest, we fall into
the mistake of striving after simplicity that we may
reach wisdom -whereas it is only through wisdom
that a safe simplicity can be reached. Instead of
accommodating ourselves to nature, we would com-
pel nature to accommodate herself to us. Instead of
ascending cautiously from the individual to the
XESHJ:RISM. 27
general, we take our general rule, and force the in-
dividual circumstance to bend to it. Instead of
adapting our theory to our facts,· like a gracefully
fitting garment, we elip and torture our facts to make
them suit the construction of our theory, or, should
they prove especially rebellious, banish them alto-
gether. This is fatal to the very clearness we aim at.
To simplify rashly is but to confuse. Until we con-
sent to view things as they are, rather than as we
would make them to be, we shall advance only to be
led astray. Until we learn to consent for a while to
philosophic doubt, we shall never arrive at certainty.
For, in truth, we are debarred from that comprehen-
siveness of principle, which is so attractive to our
pride by the deficiencies of our own understanding.•
Our laws must necessarily be multiplied because our
faculties are bounded. Nature, indeed, may be one;
but the aspect she presents to us is varied, and we can-
not climb high enough to behold her mighty land·
!Cape subject to our gaze. Our ardent inclination to
generalise thus struggling with our defect of power,
• " I thought that the first step towards satisfying several
inquiries, the mind of man was very apt to run into, was to take
a survey of our own understandings, examine our own powers,
and see to what things they were adapted. Till that was done,
I suspected we began at the wrong end, and in vain sought for
satisfaction in a quiet and sure possession of truths, that most
concerned us, whilst we let loose our thoughts into the vast
ocean ofbeing, as if all that boundless extent were the natural
and undoubted possession of our understandings."- Locke'I
&,izy on tile Human Under1tandi11g.
c 2
28 MESMERISM.
how difficult is the task of impartially examining a;
new and extraordinary agent ! Impatient of our
ignorance, and making no estimate of our own minds,
we attempt to soar into the full light of truth, with-
out considering whether our pinions may not be
made of such materials as to melt beneath its beams.
. From these considerations it appears that the
only course of investigation which is fitted to our
faculties is to observe with patience, and not to be
frightened from our propriety because a phenomenon
appears strange to us, either in itself or its con-
comitants. In a world, where it must be allowed
that all is wonderful, or that nothing is wonderful,
there is no intrinsic reason why one sequence of
events should be more astonishing than another.
Neither should we be afraid of multiplying laws
(which are, in truth, nothing more than "the expres-
sion of the most general circumstances, in which the
phenomena to which they refer have been felt by us
to agree"), as if, by so doing, we offended against
some unknown and mysterious power. In proposing
a new law, we only adopt a convenient, and it may
be, temporary expedient; we only mean to acknow-
ledge that we have not sufficiently observed a new
fact as yet to perceive its relationship with others,
wherewith we are already acquainted. And, indeed,
if offence there be, it is not of our creating. It is the
agreement or disagreement of natural phenomena
by which the number of our laws is diminished or ex·
tended. Above all, we must not forget that it is not
we who are to give laws to the fact, but the fact to
.Jid:ESMERISl\1.
bs. We have simply to trace its immediate arid re-
moter antecedents, keeping in mind that a fact is a
virtual unity, and that the nobler province of analy-
sis lies not in ingenuity of dissection but in mount-
ing, step by step, the scale of apparently divergent
~uses until we re-unite them in one common centre ;
- not in distinguishing the parent stem from the
branches and the leaves, which together make up one
tree, but in tracing back the tree itself to that
which is the general origin of all plants - a seed.
.Thus Gall, as I have heard, developed the brain,
instead of cutting it in pieces, and demonstrated
that its convolutions were but parts of one beautiful
·and consistent whole.
But even should we utterly fail in this, -should
·a phenomenon stand single and alone, and baffle all
<>ur attempts to assimilate it to aught around us, we
cannot, in true philosophy, pronounce that it exists
not. The circumstance that water expands when
cooled down b~low a certain temperature, is utterly
at variance with the usual law by which all sub-
stances contract under a diminution of heat. Yet
we do not_ deny that the fact is so. Surely, when we
£onsider that every event is but one term of a series,
the beginning and the end of which are alike lost in
infinity, we should expect to trace back many a phe-
nomenon into an obscurity that should seem impene-
trable. Surely, when we reflect on the vastness of
the visible creation, and on the still vaster universe
of thought; when it seems probable that our system
is but one of. countless numbers, that are revolving
c 3
~0 MESMERISM.
round some qnknown centre, in periods which thought
cannot measure nor science determine; that these,
again, are peopled with various orders of intelligence,
-weshould rather wonder thatwe knowso much,than
that some facts should transcend our knowledge, and
acquiesce in our ignorance rather than deny exist-
ence to that which we cannot comprehend.
But I may be reminded that mesmerism may be
one of those subjects which surpass our intellectual
vision ; and that, if so, to examine it is superfluous,
and to search for its principle a pure waste of time.
Undoubtedly. But are we now, or can we be,
indeed, at any time, entit1ed to class mesmerism
amongst unfathomable things ? If "the proper
study of mankind is man," this, as regarding man
especially, presents to his faculties a fair field of
investigation ; and with respect to such legitimate
subjects of inquiry, the point at which we should
abandon enterprise has not yet been ascertained.
While, then, we admit the difficulties that beset us
on every side, let us advance, and fear not, and take
caution with us in our pursuit of truth ; not to
check but to steady us in our course. Discovery
may be nearer to us than we suppose.• The enigma
in which every point seems to contradict the other,
• This, above all, is not the time for despair, when such a
man as Elliotson has dedicated his powers of learning
and of observation to ·the service of mesmerism ; treating the
subject (as far as 1 can judge from the scanty account of Dr.
Elliotson's experiments which bas reached me abroad) in a
tpirit which seems to render any remarks of mine useless.
/
31
lllay be rendered clear, perhaps, by one word alone ;
and may tet us wondering that we did not sooner
perceive its sin\ple ~lotion. To me, at least,
nature baa juat read a beautiful lesson, inculcating
doubt in ounelvee, trust in her, and patience to wait
upon her revelations. All day the mountains were
covered with a mist so uniform that, to a stranger's
eye, theymight have seemed like clouds, or altogether
have eseaped his notice ;-but at this moment there
ia light and clearness; and where almost a blank was,
are now tile glorious Alps, snow-covered, lit up with
&u.nshine - seeming to link earth with heaven.
Having now detailed, at too much length, pet·baps,
the principal causes that have rendered mesmerism
obnoxious to the world, it now only remains for me
to touch brie6y on one or two minor causes of
offence.. Mesmerum is one of nature's great re-
aourres in the cure of maladies; and it is not, there-
fore, wonderful, if ilome of its most striking effects
ahould have beell developed rather in the ailing and
the delicate than in the healthy and robust. Hence
the world, always ready to build up error on truth,
has connected it, in idea, with weakness of mind as
well u of body, and has classed it amongst those
idle imaginings which beset the fanciful invalid.
But what is the fact ? Mesmerism does, indeed, act
more peculiarly on the nervous system ; and, on that
account, affects, in an especial manner, persons whose
nervous system is finely organised. But we must
not conf'ound sensitiveness with imbecility. The
universal temperament of genius gives the lie to such
c 4
32 MESMERISM.
an error; and it would be plainly ridiculous to say
that the timid and susceptible author of an elegy in
a country churchyard, or Rousseau, or Pascal'*, who
were both nervous even to hypochondriacism, were
weak in intellect, because they were strong in sensi..
bility. Besides, before we identify mesmerism with
weakness of any kind, it should be shown that none
but the feeble are susceptible of its influence. Now,
as far as my experience goes, I can affirm, that not
only does a certain degree of intelligence appear
requisite for the favourable manifestation of the
mesmeric phenomena, but that persons in perfect
health have frequently exhibited them. It may also
be asserted, that fear and nervous agitation are
wholly incompatible with their genuine develop-.
ment. These may, indeed, accompany a spurious
sort of mesmeric affection, but are wholly distinct
from the power with which they co-exist, and to
which they are invariably hurtful. They are the
corruptions of the true faith, and not the faith itself.
In fine, sensibility, and not weakness, is the real
condition on which mesmerism depends.
But it is not only an apparent identity with
weakness which has degraded this unfortunate
subject;-:- it has suffered still more from a re-
pulsive connection with disease. The discoverer of
mesmerism was a physician, and its extraordinary
• Pascal, after having once been nearly upset into a river
was, for a long time, tormented with the idea of being continu-
ally on the edge of a precipice.
MESMERISM;
curative powers have naturally placed it in medical
bands; so that of the existing works upon it there
are few that are not written by members of the
medical profession, and fewer still that do not bear
immediate reference to the treatment of maladies.
This alone is sufficient to exclude it from gen~ral
interest, and to lower its pretensions to literary
consideration. Medical books are read but by a
few,- ordinarily, indeed, by those alone whose
vocation compels them to the perusal. To the
greater part of mankind they are as closely shut
as the dissecting room. It might, however, be
supposed that, as all men are liable to pain and
sickness, all would be interested in that which, at
one time, claimed to be a panacea. But whatever
may be said of the sufferings of humanity, the mass
of health is greater than the mass of disease; and
most persons instinctively dislike to have their
well-being disturbed by hearing of remedies which
they do not require, or of ailments with which they
cannot sympathise. There is something also in
medical details, which is peculiarly quenching to the
imagination, and consequently distasteful to the
man of letters and refinement. It is not, then,
extraordinary that mesmerism, treated medically,
should have been restricted to a narrow sphere ; but
is this the fault of mesmerism itself? Surely not.
On no subject is it Jess permitted to
"Give up to party what's meant for mankind."
The doors of this temple should be thrown widely
c 5
MESMERISM.
open to the world. As mental, it regards the meta-'
physician and the moralist ; as physical, the physiolo-
gist and the man of science ; and I would call upon
each and all, separating it from its ridiculous con-
comitants, to contribute to raise it to that intellectual
grandeur of which it is so eminently susceptible.
Such are the causes which have condemned mes-
merism to lie beating, like a wreck, on the shore of
substantial knowledge. The vessel, in itself, was
beautiful and well built, but adverse currents turned
it from its course, and by many a storm its sails were
rent, and its noble frame was shattered. ·
But it is not so much the causes which I have
separately enumerated as their combination which
has marked the discovery of Mesmer with peculiar
odium, and rendered it a by word and a reproach.
All the circumstances which are unfavourable to
mesmerism end in one fatal word - contempt.
Everything tends to raise a laugh at its expense; -
and against a laugh who shall have the courage to
contend? This is the last possible degradation.
Men love the mysterious and the proscribed, but
shrink from the ridiculous ; they can bear to be
thought wicked, but not to be deemed fools ; they
will endure to be hated, but not tobe despised. Now
mesmerism has become not merely a persecuted but
a ridiculous faith. There is no pomp of circumstance
about it to uphold the proselyte who is called upon
to defend it to the death. The glory of martyrdom
for its sake is done away. There is no dignity in
suffering in such a cause.
MEIMERIBM. 35
ThU&, then, the advocate of mesmerism comes
before a prejudiced tribunal, arid labours under
disabilities which it were just to bear in mind when
we feel inclined to measure the merits of his subject
by the reception with which it meets. We should,
however, take but a partial view of the case, were
we to attribute the writer's want of success entirely
to the partialities of those whom he addresses. Be-
fore we can have a true notion of the difficulties of
his undertaking, the causes of failure, personal to
himself, must also be added to the account. He has
to battle not only with the minds of others but with
his own - to fight his way through obstacles which
arise from within as well as from without, and to force
himself to calmness where all conspires to agitate and
to excite. However difficult it may be for him to
obtain a hearing ; to treat his subject impartially
and 8o as best to conciliate an adversary is perhaps
a still harder task. He is his own worst enemy, and,
amidst every ambush laid for him, has most to
beware of the snares of his own spirit. For what is
a man's state of mind, when, for the first time, he
withdraws the curtain which separates the region of
mesmerism from the scenery of common life ? He is
bewildered with rushing thoughts and wondrous
speculations. He has beheld, but scarcely knows
what it is he has beheld. A world ·of magic has
opened on his gaze; and, should he be a person of
imagination, who, like Schiller's idealist, is tired of
rough reality, he finds there all that can intoxicate and
enchain, and keep him lingering on enchanted
c 6
36 MESMERISM,
ground when he should be struggling onward to the
domain of truth. Thus fascinated, thus enthralled,
it is no wonder that, if called upon to abdicate his
paradise, he should exclaim, like Milton's Eve when
sentenced to quit Eden-
"From thee
How shall I part, and whither wander down
Into a lower world, to this obscure
And wild ? How shall we breathe in other air
Less pure, accustomed to immortal fruits ? "
There is, moreover, in the sensations of him who
1inds that he is capable of e-xercising the mesmeric
influence that peculiar charm which ever waits upon
the developme-nt of a new faculty. Even the swim-
.mer, who learns at length to surmount the boisterous
surf, or to stem the adverse stream, will revel in the
consciousness of awakened power. How much more
must the mental enthusiast riot in the display of
.energies so long concealed, so wondrously developed !
Self-love adds her flattering lure to the attractions of
novelty ; - the pride of exerting an influence over
others awakens in his breast. It is he himself who is
the author of his own enjoyment ; and the fairy
scenes appear to him fairer still, because they are ofhis
own creating. Unexpectedness, too, that principal
ingredient of pleasure, yet more entrances and be-
wilders the astonished novice, who perceives such
mighty effects resulting from his employment of a
few and simple means. He feels that he is "greater
than he knows,'' and he advances into the yet un-
MESMERISM. 87
conquered province that lies before him, with all those
alternations of rapture and surprise which agitate yet
please the explorer ofstrange regions. He trembles-
he hesitates - he catches a glimpse of a new pro.
~ect. Still is he tempted onward - ever onward
fresh wonders still opening around him, and fresh
complacency awakening in his heart : for mesmerism
is not one of those pursuits of which a man soon tires.
Founded on human nature, it presents a perpetual
variety, like that of humanity itsel£ Its successful
votary runs the risk, therefore, of turning his thoughts
upon it not only too vividly, but too exclusively.
Absorbed by a mighty interest, he is too apt to pass
into that mood wherein, as to a lover, all nature is
to us but a reflection of the beloved object ; when, if
we tum a page, we think that it bears reference to
the subject of our ceaseless contemplation ; -when
every sound teems with appropriate oracles, and
every sight with omens addressed to us alone -all
figuring the image of our own thoughts. Of this there
is the greater danger, because there exists, in fact, so
much of unconscious mesmerism in life, that it is
not surprising if, like Alonzo in The Tempest, we
should exclaim-
" Methought the billows spoke and told me ofit;
The winds did sing it to me, and the thunder-
That deep and dreadful organ-pipe-pronounced
Its name."
But, to an enthusiast in particular, how much
there is .about him and within him to recall and
88 MESJBRISM.
strengthen the first impression, and to speak to him
perpetually of that which has kindled his imagination t
That mysterious bliSS; wherewith the very atmosphere
of those we love seems to be impregnated ; -that llt•
traction of an unknown face, which beams upon us
from the passing crowd, apd which we would give
worlds to see again; - the sleep of the infant that
is "rocked by the beating of its mother's heart;"-
all teems with an influence, potent yet invisible, and
which we may call me$lllerism, if we will. But, alas !
feelings are not proofs ; and, on these occasions, how
much we feel that we can by no means prove -how
much '\t'e seem to understand of which we can
render no account! It will be easily seen how un-
favourable is this vagueness of emotion - this uni-
versality of reference -to the strictness of philosophy
and the particularity of rigid research. We have at
hand too ready a solution of every difficulty. We
are tempted to generalise before we have performed
the work of analysis, and to allow hypothesis to
supersede investigation. On a subject so wide and
so fertile, analogies offer themselves in crowds, and
being easier than inductions, are more readily
accepted by our effervescing imagination. So much
of nature's inner processes is apparently laid open to
our view, that we seem to be on the point of snatch-
ing the last word of her secret, and of breaking down
the barriers that separate the visible from the unseen,
the finite from the unbounded.
Thus excited, how shall we subside into the calm-
ness, wherein alone the mind can compare, can
MESMERISM. · 39
1eleet, or reject? How shall we exchange the wand
of the magician for the disenchanting rod of truth?
How, from the very heights of contemplation, shall
we stoop to the observation of petty facts - to the
detection of fiLllacies - to the routine of ordinary
examination ? Deeming that we know all things by
intuition, how can we condescend to reason ? Rather
are we tempted to frame some vast andall--embracing
theory - to rush at every subject, and. consequently
to fail in all. It is at least worthy of remark, that the
writers on mesmerism, who have treated it otherwise
than medically, have been too much of that school~
which philosophises "de omnibus rebus, et quibus-
dam aliis." They have passed the flaming bounds of
the universe, when they ought to have been consider-
ing the peculiar influence which one human being,
under certain circumstances, exerts upon another.
Mesmerism, then, is no matter of indifFerence, on
which a man may argue with a clear head, because
he argues with a quiet heart. It is a subject which
not only calls into action, but has a decided influence
on all the most essential principles of the human
mind; disturbing the emotions, and through them
the exercise of the intellectual powers. Self-love,
wonder, and desire of novelty, we have already seen
enlisted in its service, and troubled by its apparent
miracles. But deeply as it may engage these
feelings, still greater is the efFect which it produces
upon the principle of belief- a part of our mental
constitution which so largely concerns our modes of
action- our present, and our future well-being, that
.MESMERISM.
whatever tends to modify it is of vital consequente,
and should be treated with all the caution which the
importance of the occasion demands. With how
much self-watchfulness, then, should we approach a
subject which is calculated to work an entire re-
volution in the very regulator of our being- to
substitute a rash credulity for a sound and safe
belief? This is the great snare of his own mind,
against which a writer on mesmerism has perpetu-
ally to be on his guard. He has beheld phenomena
which are beyond the pale of his former experience ;
~nd, impelled as we all are to reason from that which
we ourselves have seen to that of which we are
personally ignorant, he is tempted to ask himself, -
" If this be true (as I perceive it is), why not also a
thousand other things, of which I have hitherto
doubted ?" Thus is he led to trust rather to analogy
than to observation; and his willingness to accept a
fact upon due evidence is turned into a disposition to
credit all things upon no evidence whatever. The
barrier of prudent hesitation is cast down; and his
mind is left a prey to the invasion of every idle fancy.
That he was once even of a sceptical spirit will profit
him nothing. Rather, with that propensity to rush
into extremes which is a part of human imperfection,
the more incredulous he has hitherto been, the
greater will be his rebound to credulity. The more
he has hitherto refused to put faith in the testimony
of others, the more entirely will he submit himself to
·that of his own senses ; and finding that he is forceq
to believe what once he deemed incredible, he feels
. MESMERISM. 41
that he has scarcely a right to refuse assent to the
wild_est dreams of a diseased imagination. The
wise admonition,-" Believe not every spirit,"-is
disregarded; -nay, there is danger that he should
become in love with marvels, and not only welcome
them, when they are offered to his consideration, but
go out of his way to seek them, even where they
exist not ; elevating every trifle into importance, till
he faJis into the absurdity of perpetual wonder.
Thus it is to be feared that he who adventures his
bark of discovery into the great deep of mesmerism
will not, Columbus-like, steer ever towards one
anticipated point, deterred neither by portents nor
by passions in mutiny ; but that he will enter upon
a course resembling rather the fabled voyage of
Ulysses, haunted by prodigies and embarrassed by
delays; and it will be well if imagination, like
another Circe, does not seduce from their allegiance,
and transform those faculties which ought to guide
and serve him under the stern control of reason.
;But, even supposing that a man has strength of
mind sufficient to elude these perils, and to discipline
his fancy to the proper standard of belief, stating
only that which he has ascertained by the most rigid
observation, there is still a difficulty in his way,
which relates mutually to himself and to those whoni
.he addresses. However reasonable he may be, and
·however unprejudiced his reader, still each party is,
as regards the subject in question, in a very different
state of experience. It is true that, in a degree, this
zemark_ applies to every case where information is
given and received ; but then, in all other .caseS,
there is a groundwork to go upon, co'mmon both to
the instructar and the instructed. The experience
of the former is indeed more enlarged than that of
the lattt!r: yet it is ever to the experience of the
pupil that the teacher appeals ; and the basis of the
new edifice of knowledge which he undertakes to
erect consists in a few simple principles which ate
generally l'eCogni8ed by all mankind. For instance,
an ignorant man, when told of the enonnous dis-
tances at which the stars are placed, relatively to the
earth and to each other, may at first feel inclined to
doubt the facts: but let the size of the heavenly
bodies be stated to him ; let him be reminded that
all objects appear less in proportion to their distance
from us ; and, that which he knows already helping
him to that he does not know, the matter is at once
brought within the scope of his comprehension. But,
as regards mesmerism, we are excluded from any
such appeal to universal experience. On this subject,
he who undertakes to persuade, and he who consents
to listen, are not only in different, but in opposite
states of mind. There is no common point from
which they may start together, -there is no centre
of belief where they may meet and be reconciled.
The pupil, at the very outset, is called upon to assent
to a series of propositions not only startling but
repugnant to his experience. That a man can throw
another into a kind of sleep by certain gestures;
that the person thus apparently deprived of con..
. ~eiousness can answer questions rationally, anfl
MESJIIERISK.
diseem objeets, though his eyes are fast shut;-
these are the extraordinary statements which alarm
him into opposition before the discussion is begun,
and excite either his incredulity or his scorn. By
them he is thrown into a perplexing dilemma.
Unexplained as are the faets of mesmerism, or (what
is worse) inefficiently explained, it seems as if he bad
only to choose between rejecting them as absurdities,
or admitting them as miracles. In either case, an
inquiry into their causes seems a pure waste of time.
If nullities, they sprang from nothing; if miracles,
they cannot be accounted for. Moreover, to admit
them as miracles is :repugnant to human feeling in
general. Men love not to have their faith taxed
more than is absolutely necessary ; and, in this case,
there is no religious motive which can compel mith :
on the contrary, many a person of weak but zealous
piety fears to lessen the miracles recorded in
scripture, by allowing that any thing whatever,
which appears to interrupt the course of nature,
can, at this day, be wrought by mortal power. With
these feelings, though once, perhaps, experienced by
himself, the mesmeriaer finds it difficult duly to
sympathise. He has left them far behind. To him
the facts of mesmerism are no miracles, -for one
plain reason: from the moment a thing takes its
station amongst every-day occurrences it ceases to
be a wonder. Let any unwonted term in any
sequence of events with which we are already ac-
quainted interpose itself sufficiently often, and it
will itself become a part of the series which it
MESMERISM•
appeared, at first, to interrupt. In brief, our
familiarity with a fact is the measure of our opinion
concerning it. Drawing lightning from the clouds
was once a feat that appeared almost necromantic;
but custom has deprived it of its marvel, and we
place conductors on our houses as a matter of course.
Had the sun always begun the day in the west, such
would appear to us his natural mode of rising. Now
the mesmeriser has probably been in the constant
habit of witnessing those phenomena, at the bare
mention of which others are alarmed or revolted;
and so rivetted together in his thoughts are certain
trains of physical or mental changes, that not to
behold them would be the surprise; not to find the
usual result consequent upon the usual causes would
be the miracle.
Thus, then, the writer on mesmerism and his
reader are, as it were, at antagonist poles of belief;
and it is as difficult for the one to divest himself of
his present knowledge, and to revert to his ancient
incredulity or wonder, as for the other cordially to
assent to facts which belie the whole tenor of his
experience. To find the resolution of these discords
is no easy task. Let the author approach his subject
as guardedly as he may, still he cannot but state
facts that are astonishing ; and the manner of his
discourse will avail him little while the matter of it
is so exceptionable. To those who disbelieve the
phenomena whereof he treats, an inquiry into their
causes is but an impertinence. The very calmness
with which he propounds his heretical opinions, and
.MESMERISM.:
which results from a deep conviction of their truth~
must appear to others the worst symptom of incurable
error ; - his impartiality will seem prejudice ; his
utmost caution madness. Let him be ever so
sound in mind, he will encounter more than one
Felix who will be ready to exc1aim, "Thou art
beside thysel£"
An opposition so great between the writer on our
subject' and his reader, would seem to render the
task of the former not only difficult but hopeless.
On more mature reflection, however, we shall per-
ceive that though there is much to make him lower
his expectations ofsuccess, there is enough to encou-
rage him not to abandon them altogether. Amongst
those to whom facts interesting and new are stated,
there will ever be some persons who will be led to
think and to inquire for themselves. Thus the mes-
meriser only loses the suffrages of the prejudiced
who refuse, or the careless who are incompetent, to
examine the question, and the very causes that con-
tribute to narrow the circle of his auditors tend only
to render it more select.
In conclusion :-The result of the preceding
deliberations seems to be this. We should lay aside
all prejudice, connected either with the origin, name,
or injudicious exposition of mesmerism, and try the
subject, wholly and impartially, upon its own merits.
Unalarmed by the apparent strangeness and in-
congruity of the phenomena to be investigated, we
should call to mind how frequently "appearances of
external Bature, puzzling at first sight, and seem-
li08ME.Bl811rL
ingly irreconcileable with one another, have all been
solved and harmonised by a reference to some one
pervading principle," and should thus be led to
surmise that the irregularity and variations of the
mesmeric world may be found, upon mature observ-
ation, less inexplicable than a careless spectator
could imagine. Even should this hope be long de-
ferred, we are not, on that account, to deny the re-
ality of well-attested facts. Are these things so ? is
the one great question which we have to ask ; and to
separate this from all its accidental accompaniments
is the first step towards its satisfactory solution.
lJES.MERISM..
BOOK II.
SECT. I.
MESMERIC SOMNAMBULISM, OR, MORE PROPERLY,
SLEEPWAKING.•
IN entering upon the examination of a new subjec4
we should strive to place it jn the clearest and least
disputable point of view. To this end, I shall for
the present consider mesmerism simply as a distinct
species of somnambulism, into which it has been
asserted that man has the capacity of passing, through
the influence of his fellow-man. Were this all-
did none other of the extraordinary allegations re-
specting mesmerism exist, -this alone appears to
me a subject of deep interest, and worthy of being
submitted to that patient investigation, which should
either confirm it as a fact, or banish it as an illusion.
Mesmeric sleepwaking- if proved to be a reality-·
will claim to be considered as one of the conditions
of man, and, as such, must concern all mankind -
but especially the philosopher, who, in order to in-
vestigate our nature truly, should explore it in its
• Dr. Elliotson, in the chapter on mesmerism in his PHYSI-
OLOGY, has adopted the term 1leepwaking, because walking is
but one result of the combination of the waking with the sleep-
ing state, and because in thi5 state persons may not walk, or may
even be unable to walk.
48 MESMERISM.
weakness and its strE-ngth, its integrity and itsdisorder.
Sleep, fever, irritation of the nervous system, have
each their several trains of physical and mental
phenomena, which are anxiously investigated by him
who would know man as he is. Even drunkenness
has had its anatomists, and with what fearful interest
we strive to fathom the abyss of madness, as if we
could evoke from thence the secret of our complicate
and wonderful existence ! There is good sense in
this. From the derangement of a machine we are
often led to ascertain the uses of its several parts.
Now, though mesmeric sleepwaking can scarcely be
called a derangement of the animal economy, still it
is an aberration from man's normal state; and, so
considered, cannot fail to be replete with instruction
to the careful observer. Unless we peruse this page,
our study of the great volume of human nature must
be incomplete.
Surely likewise, independently of the philosophical
view of the question, all who share this suffering
mortal frame -all who, during long and tedious
hours, have vainly courted sleep, that perverse power
which, in the poet's beautiful words, is "still last
to come where it is wanted most," -all who mourn
the past, or fear the future,. cannot but be inter-
ested in a discussion respecting the reality of a
power in man to withdraw for a while the senses of
his fellow-mortals from this world of troubles.
In thus considering mesmerism as nothing more
than a state to be investigated like any othE-r state
into which man has the capacity .of passing, I shall
MESMERISM. 49
probably surprise those who have been. accustomed
to regard the matter. either as too mysterious to
claim affinity with aught on earth, or as too fanci-
fully wild to be brought under the laws of rational
research. It may be doubted also, whether, with
some persons, our subject may not. lose its charms,
when robbed of its controverSial title, and whether
the plain view I have taken of the question may not
equally offend the argumentative opposer who seeks
to show his ~loquence in dispute, and the warm par-
tisan who would invest his favourite science with an
awful and unknown dignity. But the earnest and
impartial pupil of nature will be content to take his
stand with me on the sure ground of experimental
proof, and, even should he become my opponent, will
attack the true subject in debate instead of the man
of straw, which bas so long and so often been warred
with under the name of mesmerism.
The proofs, which I shall offer, regarding this pe-
culiar phasis of our mortal state, will be drawn,
almost exclusively, from the proceeds of iny own
observation. To make use of the materials accumu-
lated by others, in order to construct a theory
of one's own, has always appeared to me inconsistent
with the earnestness of true inquiry. That deep
conviction of the reality of his subject, which is an
author's life and soul, is the result of personal ex-
perience alone. Besides, it should be the aim, as I
conceive, of every one who undertakes a cause, to add
to the stock of real ·information thereupon. Thus
only can the boundaries of human knowledge be en-
D
50 MESMERISM.
larged; - for what new fact can be elicited by those,
who copy everlastingly from the old ? Moreover, a
person who observes for himself may perchance re-
mark what has hitherto escaped the notice of even
clearer eyes than his. Let twenty men witness a
transaction, and the attention of each will probably
be directed to a different feature of that transaction.
By the combined result of such individual scrutiny,
we come to a perception of the whole truth. Each
carefully observed fact is an heirloom to mankind;
and he who verifies a new phenomenon does more,
perhaps, for science than he who constructs a
theory.
Before, however, bringing forward the records of
my own personal experience, I must warn my reader
that if he imagines I have anything miraculous to
relate he will be disappointed. It is true that I
might, were I so inclined, give a zest to my pages
by recording circumstances which were passing
strange ; but I have avoided these, from reasons
which partly regard myself, partly those whom I
address.
With respect to the latter, I think that persons in
general would only be revolted by particulars which
they would scarcely credit on any testimony ; anc.l
thus I should rather injure than promote the cause I
have undertaken to defend.
Secondly, as concerning myself. For my own sake
I shun those tracts of thought, which, if not belonging
to superstition, at least closely border upon her
domains. When once we pass the bounds of the
MESMERISM. 51
definite and the probable, we can scarcely settle with
our own minds what degree of credit we ought to
attach to the mystic circumstances that surround us,
or on what basis we should place them. Of every
fact of this nature there are ordinarily two explana-
tions to be given -a rational, and a marvellous.
The marvellous would lead us too far; the rational
does not content us. As, for instance, a sleepwaker
describes to me what her family, in a distant house,
are doing at a particular hour. I inquire subse-
quently into this, and find that she has been correct
in every point. Now there are two interpretations
of this seeming miracle:- we may either suppose
that the sleepwaker has really seen what she stated;
or that, from her knowledge of what the occupa-
tions of her family generally are, at a certain hour,
She was enabled to divine, almost certainly, the
troth.
Again: a sleepwaker tells me-" My brother,
who has been to the Havaunah, and of whom we have
not heard for some months, is returned, and is at this
moment anchored off Flushing. He is just coming
from watch, and on such a day he will be here."
This is verified to the letter; but again there are two
methods of explaining wherefore:-either the sleep-
waker was gifted with extraordinary knowledge and
prescience, or, from expecting her brother about a
certain time, she calculated on probabilities, per-
haps, more acutely than in her natural state; and
this, combined with that sort of coincidence which
occurs more frequently than some may suppose, is
D 2
52 :»ESMERJSX.
sufficient to account for the verification of her asser-
tions and her prophecy. This may be true ; but l
confess that such reasoning as the latter does not
always satisfy me, and that, in my opinion, after
subtracting from the account all of the mavellous that
we possibly can, there will yet remain a residuum of
something strange and perplexing. For this reaso~
I turn my attention to facts that appear to me more
important, as well as more certain ; conceiving that
to dwell on wonders, that are, at best, doubtful, is far
from healthy to the mind. I ha¥e therefore always
discouraged my sleepwakers from making to me
extraordinary revelations, and I have endeavoured to
confine both them and myself within a walk-
narrow, indeed, bot safe; less interesting, perhaps,
but certainly more direct.
.All facts connected with the senses, or which
illustrate the close affinity between the mesmeriser
and hispatient (indicative as they are of some medium
of communication existingbetween them) seem to me
unexceptionable in their tendency, and strictly rela-
tive to the influence we have to consider. To these
then I have chiefty limited myself at the hazard of
offending by over-caution, rather than by superfluouS
zeal. Hence my narrative will ha,·e an humble air,
which may contrast oddly, perhaps, with the high
terms in which I have spoken of the pretensions of
mesmerism in my first book. I may be asked the
cui bono of certain tri.fting details, and may be told
that the experiments I have related are neither
beautiful nor useful. To ·what end, it may be
MESMERISM. 53
demanded, do these sleepwakers perform things
asleep which were better done awake? I can
imagine a critic saying-" Never was the ' parturiunt
montes,' more admirably exemplified than in the
work before us. We are told, in the first place that
the.mesmeriser withdraws a curtain that conceals a
magic world, and we are then presented with nothing
better than a Bartholomew show of farthing rush-
lights. We first read of awakened powers and in-
tellectual .influences that unlock the mysteries of
nature, and, then, proceeding to the experiments, we
meet with trash little better than the following: -
'Are you asleep?' 'Yes!'- 'Do you see me?'-
' No !' &c. &c." This is all easily said; but I
beseech my reader to remember the vast dispropor-
tion between the experiments themselves and the
deductions to be drawn from them : they are but
mean steps to a mighty temple; yet they must be
mounted before we can enter the sanctuary itself.
Is this preliminary humiliation in approaching a
science peculiar to mesmerism ? Let us turn to
Newton's optics, where we shall find such small par-
ticularities as the following:-" I made in a piece of
lead a small hole with a pin, whose breadth was the
forty-second part of an inch; for twenty-one of those
pins laid together took up the breadth of half an inch."
We are neither amused nor prejudiced by this,
because we know to what mighty consequences the
apparent trifles led. But in mesmerism unfortunately
we look not forward thus; and unfortunately also
there is no existing subject which more requires
D3
54 MESMERISM.
men to look beyond externals. The object experi.;.
mented on is man ; and, in the very nature of things,
whatever has to do with man contains some of the
ludicrous. Human lire and the pages of Shakspeare
will show how near akin in us are tears and laughter,
sublimity and littleness. Our postures, our gestures,
our peculiarities of countenance may all become
matter of mirth to each other of us. When their best
friend falls down, the first impulse with most persons
is to laugh. It is no wonder, then, that in mesmer-
ism we experience a sense of the comic, which the
inanimate objects that are operated upon in other
sciences cannot excite. No one feels disposed to
ridicule a crystal, or to smile at a mineral ; but there
will be, perhaps, moments in mesmerism, when "to be
grave exceeds all powers of face." The motions of
the mesmeriser especially must seem ridiculous to
those who see him gesticulate, and know not to what
end. He is using those meanswhich experience
has shown him to be most efficacious in calling forth
the phenomena he desires to produce; -but the
uninitiated cannot be aware of this, and an action
.that appears to want motive is essentially ludicrous.
Any one who has stopped his ears to the music,
while people are dancing, will remember how fantas-
tic the scene of gaiety appeared to him. This, and
more, I can allow. I have as lively a sense of the
ludicrous as any man, and could, myself, most easily
travestie mesmerism, and exhibit it in a ridiculous
point of view; for ridicule is always easy. I can also
laugh, where a grave subject is goodhumouredly
MESMERISM.
bantered; as, for instance, where Hood writes a lively
and pleasant article -into which one can plainly see
no malice enters - on what he facetiously calls som-
bamboozleism; and represents a Yorkshire grazier
as much disappointed, when he finds that mesmerism
is not a new mode of fattening animals and has
nothing to do with mangel wurzel. But there is
something in solemn and malignant ridicule which
is not so easy to be endured ; - though, indeed, we
should remember that whether scoffers laugh at
mesmerism or not can matter little. The subject is
not for them, nor for any who cannot look
through the trifling to the important, .without
being diverted from their object by things which
may make them smile at the moment but ponder
deeply afterwards; - as, for example, the mesmer-
iser makes faces, and the sleepwaker, though seeing
him not, imitates them exactly. Some may stop
short at the ludicrous part of this; but, for him who
views the experiment as proving an unseen medium
of communication between the mesmeriser and his
patient, the fact is full of an absorbing interest which
checks all lighter thoughts. Thus some have mocked
at the simplicity of diction or of events that charac-
terises the writings of Wordsworth, while others have
seen that the poet has only adopted nature's mode of
teaching us philosophy. This, at least, must be
granted. The merest trifles are interesting that
suggest to us an action in man independent of his
present organisation. Now mesmerism teems with
ptore than slight indications of this; and we should
D 4
56 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
treasure up such glimmerings of futurity -however
faint, and however presented to us-as inestimable
proofs that we possess a germ of being which God
permits us to behold partially unfolded here, in order
to confirm our faith as to its fuller development
hereafter.
This being premised, I pro~ to give an account
of the first experiments in mesmerism which it fell in
my way to witness ; conceiving that such a narrative
will form not only the simplest but the best com-
mencement to the series of proofs I have to offer,
respecting the state and characteristics of mesmeric
sleepwaking.
If to have been an 1mbeliever in the very existence
of the state in question can add weight to my testi-
mony, my reader, should he be also an heretic on the
subject, may be· assured that his incredulity in this
respect can scarcely be greater than mine was up to
the winter of 1836. That at the time I mention I
should be both ignorant and prejudiced on the score
of mesmerism will not surprise those who are
aware of its long proscription in England, and the
want of information upon it which till very lately
prevailed there.
In the course of a residence at Antwerp, a valued
friend detailed to me some extraordinary results of
mesmerism, to which he had been eye-witness.
I could not altogether discredit the evidence of one
whom I knew to be both observant and incapable of
falsehood ; but I took refuge in the supposition that he
had been ingeniously deceived. Reflecting, however,
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 57
that to condemn before I had examined was as unjust
to others as it was unsatisfactory to myself, I ac-
cepted readily the proposition of my friend to intro-
duce me to anacquaintance of his in Antwerp who had
learned the practice ofthemesmericart from a German
physician. We waited together on Mr. K--, the
mesmeriser, (an agreeable and well-informed person)
and stated to him that the object of our visit was to
prevail on him to exhibit to us a specimenofhis myste-
rious talent. To this he at first replied that he was
rather seeking to abjure a renown that had become
troublesome, half the world viewing him as a conjuror,
and the other.half as a getter up of strange comedies ;
but," he kindly added, " if you will promise me a
strictly private meeting, I will, this evening, do all in
my power to convince you that mesmerism is no delu-
sion. This being agreed upon, together with a stipu-
lation that the members of my own family should be
present on the occasion, I, to remove all doubt of
complicity from every mind, proposed that Mr. K--
should mesmerise a person who should be a perfect
stranger to him. To this he readily acceded; and now
the only difficulty was to find a subject for our ex-
periment. At length we thought of a young person,
in the middling class of life, who had often done fine
work for the ladies of our family, and of whose cha-
racter we had the most favourable knowledge. Her
mother was Irish ; her father, who had been dead
some time, had been a Belgian, and she spoke En-
glish, Flemish, and French, with perfect facility.
Her widowed parent was chiefly supported by her
D5
58 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
industry,and, in the midst oftrying circumstances, het
temper was gay an~ cheerful, and her health excel-
lent. That she had never seen Mr. K- we were
sure; and of her probityand incapacity for feigning we
had every reason to be convinced. With our request,
conveyed to her through one of the ladies of our
family, for whom she had conceived a warm affection,
she complied without hesitation. Not being of a
nervous, though of an exciteable temperament, she
had no fears whatever about what she was to undergo.
On the contrary, she had rather a desire to know
what the sensation of being mesmerised might be.
Of the phenomena which were to be developed in
the mesmeric state she knew absolutely nothing.
Thus all deceptive imitation of them on her part was
rendered impossible.
About nine o'clock in the evening our party
assembled for what in foreign phrase is called "une
seance magnetique." Anna M--, our mesmerisie,
was already with us. Mr. K- arrived soon after,
and was introduced to his young patient, whose name
we had purposely avoided mentioning to him in the
morning- not that we feared imposition on either
hand, but that we were determined, by every precau-
tion, to prevent any one from alleging that imposition
had been practised. Utterly unknown as the parties
were to each other, a game played by two confederates
was plainly out of the question. Almost immediately
after the entrance of Mr. K- we proceeded to the
business of the evening. By his directions, Mademoi-
selle M-- placed herself in an arm-chair at one end
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING, 59
oftheapartment,whileheoccupiedaseatdirectlyfacing
her.s. He then took each ofher hands in one of his,
and sat in such a manner as that the knees and feet
of both should be in contact. In this position he re-
mained for some time motionless, attentively regard-
ing her with eyes as unwinking as the lid1ess orbs
which Coleridge has attributed to the Genius of
Destruction. We had been told previously to keep
utter silence, and none of our circle,- composed of
some five or six persons- felt inclined to transgress
the order. To me, novice as I was at that time in
such matters, it was a moment of absorbing interest.
That which I had heard mocked at as foolishness -
that which I myself had doubted as a dream, was
perhaps about to be brought home to my conviction,
and established for ever in my mind as a reality.
Should the present trial prove successful, how much
of my past experience must be remodelled and re-
versed!
Convinced as I have since been to what valuable
conclusions the phenomena of mesmerism may
conduct the inquirer, never, perhaps, have I been
more impressed with the importance of its preten-
sions than at that moment when my doubts of their
validity were either to be strengthened or removed.
Concentrating my attention upon the motionless
pair, I observed that Mademoiselle M- seemed
at her ease, and occasionally smiled, or glanced at
the assembled party ; but her eyes, as if by a charm,
always reverted to those of her mesmeriser, and at
length seemed unable to turn away from them
D 6
60 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
Then aheaviness, as of sleep, seemed to weigh down
her eyelids,· and to pervade the expression of her
countenance; her head drooped on one side; her
breathing became regular ; at length her eyes closed
entirely, and, to all appearance, she was calmly
asleep in just seven minutes from the time when
Mr. K- first commenced his operations. I
should have observed that, as soon as the first symp-
tOm of drowsiness was manifested, the mesmeriser
had withdrawn his hands from those of Mademoiselle
M-- and had commenced what are called the
"mesmeric passes," • conducting his fingers slowly
downward, without contact, along the. arms of the
patient. For about five minutes Mademoiselle
M~ continued to repose tranquilly, when sud-
denly she began to heave deep sighs, and to turn
and toss in her chair. She then called out, " Je me
trouve malade! Je m'etouffe!" and, rising in a wild
manner, she continued to repeat, "Je m'etouffe!"
evidently labouring under an oppression of the
breath. But all this time her eyes remained fast
shut, and, at the command of her mesmeriser, she
took his arm, and walked-still with her eyes shut
-to the table. Mr. K-- then said, "Voulez-
vous que je vous eveille?" " Oui, oui," she ex-
~laimed, "Je · m'etouffe.'' Upon this, Mr. K-
again operated with his hands, but in a different set
of movements, and, taking out his handkerchief,
• .The term .means nothing more than such motions as I haTe
described.
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 61
agitated the air around the patient, who forthwith
opened her eyes, and stared about the room like a
person awaking from sleep. No traces of her
indisposition, however, appeared to · remain, and,
soon shaking off all drowsiness, she was· able to
converse and laugh as cheerfully as usual. On being
Bsked what. she remembered of her sensations, she
said that she had only a general idea of having felt
unwell and oppressed; that she had wished to open
her eyes, but could not. They felt as if lead were
on them. Of having walked to the table she had no
recollection. Notwithstanding her having suffered,
she was desirous of being again mesmerised, and sat
down fearlessly to make a second trial. This time
it was longer before her eyes closed, and she never
seemed to be reduced to more than a state of half
unconsciousness. When the mesmeriser asked her if
she slept, she answered in the tone of utter drowsi-
ness, " Je dors, et je ne dors pas." This lasted some
time, when Mr. K-- declared that he was afraid
of fatiguing his patient (and probably his spectators
too), and that he should disperse the mesmeric fluid.
To do so, however, seemed not so easy a matter as
the .first time when he awoke the sleepwaker. With
difficulty she appeared to rouse herself, and even
after having spoken a few words to us, and risen
from her chair, she suddenly relapsed into a state
of torpor, and fell prostrate · to the ground, as if
~rfectly insensible. Mr. K- entreating us not
to be alarmed, raised her up, placed her in a chair;
and supported her ·head· with his hand. It was
62 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING•
.then that I distinctly recognised one of the asserted
phenomena of mesmerism. The head of Mademoi·
selle M-- followed everywhere, with unerring
certainty, the hand of her mesmeriser, and seemed
irresistibly attracted to it, as iron to the loadstone.
At length Mr. K- succeeded in thoroughly
awaking his patient, who, on being interrogated
respecting her past sensations, said that she retained
a recollection of her state of semi-consciousness,
during which she much desired to have been able to
sleep wholly ; but of her having fallen to the ground,
or of what had passed subsequently, she remembered
nothing whatever. To other inquiries she replied
that the drowsy sensation which first stole over her
was rather of an agreeable nature, and that it was
preceded by a slight tingling, which ran down her
arms in the direction of the rnesmeriser's fingers.
Moreover, she assured us that the oppression she had
at one time felt was not fanciful, but real- not
mental, but bodily, and was accompanied by a
peculiar pain in the region of the heart, which,
however, ceased immediately on the dispersion of the
mesmeric sleep. These statements were the rather
to be relied upon, inasmuch as the girl's character
was neither timid nor imaginative.
Second Sitti"1J.
On this occasion Mademoiselle M-- sat down,
as she assured me afterwards, with a resolution to
resist the mesmeric drowsiness to the utmost, and
with a strong impression that she sohuld not sleep.
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 63
This want of co-operation on her part seemed to
render the mesmeriser's task more difficult, yet in
about twenty minutes she was brought into that state
9f imperfect slumber into which she had fallen on
the first evening. As then, so now, she affirmed,
"Je dors, et je ne dors pas ; " while all the time she
seemed incapable of opening her eyes. At other
times she expressed an impatience of her semi-
conscious state, and exclaimed, " Faites-moi dormir
tout-a-fait;" but the nagain she murmured ; " Non,
vous ne le pouvez pas." In this half torpid state she
remained so long, that we feared no other result
would be obtained; and Mr. K-- himself turned
round his head towards us, and shook it, as much
as to say that he despaired of success. At length,
howeTer, appearing to rally his pnwers, he laid his
hands upon the shoulders of his patient, who almost
instantly heaved a deep sigh, and fell back in her
chair with every symptom of the profoundest slumber.
Soon after this, I observed that her head, as on the
last occasion, followed every motion of the mesmer-
'
iser's hands. Mr. K-- now asked her if she
slept, and she replied softly, but distinctly, " Oui, je
dors." He then asked her if- she would quit her
chair, and walk a little, but to this proposition she
strongly objected, declaring that she wished to rest,
and that she thought she should fall were she to
attempt to get up. Mr. K--, however, assured
her that such would not be the case, and rising from
his chair, and going to a short distance, he made a
motion with his arms, as if he would draw her
64 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
towards him. Sighing deeply, she then got up, and
moved towards him, but tottered, and exclaimed,
"Oh je vais tomber." Upon this the mesmeriser
seized her hand, _and said, in a tone of decision,
"Non, vous ne -tomberez pas." In effect, she after-
wards stood firmly, and even walked about the room,
holding the arm of Mr. K- but still retaining
the expression of a sleeping person, though the
extreme torpor which weighed down her head before
she left her chair seemed, in a great measure,
removed. To all appearance her eyes were closely
shut, and there was even a sealed look about the lids
which was very remarkable. Notwithstanding this,
she appeared to be very sensible to the light, and
never approached the lamp without complaining of
the glare. One of our party having expressed a
doubt that she slept, and this having been explained
to her by the mesmeriser (for she did not seem to
attend to any one else), she exclaimed, with an air of
surprise, "Yes, certainly, I am asleep." During the
time (upwards of an hour) that she remained thus
abstracted, or entranced, I noted the following
phenomena: -
lst. Attraction towards the mesmeriser- mental
and ph!Jsical.- She could not endure Mr. K--
to leave her for an instant; and there was a
~ervous anxiety in the manner in which she often
exclaimed, " Mais, il ne faut pas me quitter."
The most apparently uncomfortable posture seemed
agreeable to her so long as she could rest her
head on the mesmeriser's hand. If another hand
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 65
was substituted, however adroitly, she was imme-
diately aware of the change, and betrayed un-
easiness. On one occasion I took the mesmeriser's
place at a moment when he stood behind her. After
a few seconds, an expression of utter discontent and
repugnance came over her countenance, and she re-
moved her head from my support. At this moment
Mr. K-·- was stealing away noiselessly to another
part·of the room, and I observed that her face turned
towards him, and followed his every motion. When
he made a gesture as if he would beckon her towards
him, she got up immediately, and walked to where
he was, threading her way, exactly as he had done,
between the chairs, tables, &c., without stumbling or
coming in contact with any obstacle.
2dly. A knowledge ofwhat the mesmeriser ate or drank,
indicating community of sensation with him. - This
phenomenon appearing to me to constitute one of the
most interesting features of the mesmeric state, I
took particular pains to verify it. Mr. K- stood
behind the sleepwaker, but in contact with her (for
otherwise the experiment did not seem to answer) one
hand slightly touching her shoulder. In this position
of the parties, we handed to Mr. K-- from behind
(so as to prevent any possibility of the sleepwaker
seeing what we were about, even had her eyes been
open) different things to drink or eat. While the
mesmeriser was taking these, Mademoiselle M-
imitated precisely all the motions of tasting and swal-
lowing, just as ifshe herself had taken the substances
into her month: On being asked what she tasted,
-
66 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
she stated correctly what the mesmeriser was oc•
cupied with at the moment. In this way she re-
cognised tea, wine, and .water, and distinguished
between them, change them as often as we would.
The accuracy with which she described a peculiar
kind of roll, which we gave Mr. K-- to eat, was
extraordinary. "Ce n'est pas du pain; ce n'est pas
precisement du biscuit. C'est quelquechose que les
matelots mangent." The last assertion was perfectly
correct, for at Antwerp this kind of roll is a favourite
article of diet with the sailors.
3dly. An increased quicknesstifperception.-Privately
and with precaution, I changed rings with the mes-
meriser. The moment the sleepwaker subsequently
took his hand, she exclaimed, " Vous avez quelque
chose, qui n'est pas de vous l" "A qui est ce done?"
asked Mr. K-: she immediately named the right
owner. I should remark that, in her waking state,.
she assured me she did not know whether even I
wore a ring or not. Another proof of the acute-
ness of her perceptions was the accuracy with which
she distinguished her mesmeriser's hand from every
other. We made the experiment together with
her mesmeriser, giving her all our hands suc-
cessively many times, in a different order, but she
invariably recognised the hand of Mr. K-- at
the first touch, exclaiming "Ah c'est de lui."
4thly. A development tifthe power tif vision.- I am
aware that.I here approach dangerous ground. Our
:very nature rises up in arms against whateverseems in-
,compatible withour personal experience; and that men
XESMEBIC SLEEPWAKJNG. 67
should, under any circumstances, see otherwise than
in the appointed way of vision appears so entirely to
contradict the very purposes of our organisation, that
we shrink from the bare mention of such an anomaly.
Accordingly, what is called clair-vo!fance has been .
ever the great stumbling-block to the unbeliever in
mesmerism. To decide that mesmeric sleepwakers
do really possess the faculty ofseeing through closed
lids, or other obstacles, would in this place be pre-
mature. I waive that question until I can place it
upon the sure ground of proof. But allowing to pass
for the present an hypothesis which has been sug-
gested to me; namely, that mesmerised persons,
being in a state of nervous excitement, see, like those
afllicted with a peculiar irritability of the retina,
with less light and through a smaller aperture
between the lids, than others; still, even the fact that
the sensibility of vision can be thus increased by
apparently insignificant means, appears to me highly
interesting and worthy of investigation. This I can
safely affirm - that there was something new and
astonishing in the manner in which Mademoiselle
M- distinguished objects. The closest observa-
tion of the six members of the party, who witnessed
the experiments I am now detailing, could detect not
the slightest opening of her eye-lids; nevertheless she
gave undoubted proofs of possessing a considerable
degree of vision, for she recognised and named
every person present, when brought up to her in any
order. The exercise, however, of whatever new
mode of vision she had acquired, appeared to bel'
68 MESMERIC SLEEPWAltiNG.
difficult and fatiguing ; and, when an object was held
before her, she usually declared it to be too .small for
her to know what it was. When urged to look at
any thing, she expressed the greatest repugnance to
do so; and it was only at the reiterated command of
the mesmeriser that she aroused herself to the neces-
sary effort. At those times, her whole deportment
was that of a person who wished to rest, yet who by
some external force was compelled into exertion. .No
exorcised spirit could have done its work more grudg-
ingly ; and, like the enchantress evoked by Odin, she
continually entreated to be left to repose. Sometimes
addressing those around her, when asked to look
at any object, she exclaimed, " You, who see so
much better than I do, why do not you rather tell
me what it is. I beg of you to tell me." Twice,
however, she gave singular proofs of correct vision.
Some music-paper was put into her hand, and she
was asked what was written on it. She replied,
"There is nothing written on it; it is music paper."
The mesmeriser gave her his watch, and asked
her the hour. After the usual reluctance and some
delay, and moving of her fingers over the watch-glass,
in the direction of the hands, she named the hour
and minute with precision.
During this sitting, there was no return of the op-
pression from which Mademoiselle M-- had suf-
fered on first being mesmerised. .Both in countenance
and manner she remained perfectly calm.
The experiments being at an end, she was asked if
she wished to awake, when she answered in the
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 69
affirmative, but at the same time declared her ina-
bility to do so unless the mesmeriser took off the
heaviness from her eyes, as in the preceding sitting.
Upon this Mr. K-- made some lateral motions
with his hands, across her face, as if he were ·removing
something from before it, and in about a minute the
sleepwaker opened her eye8, rubbed them, and stared
about, like a person awaking from heavy slumber.
Her first question was, "How long have I been
asleep ?, She then complained of considerable
heaviness in her limbs, but this was soon removed,
as it seemed, by some mesmeric "passes" which Mr.
K-- made over them. When interrogated as to
what she remembered of her past state, she said that
the last thing which she distinctly recollected was the
mesmeriser's laying his hands on her shoulders -
that they felt to her burning hot, and as heavy as
lead, and seemed to weigh her down into unconsci-
ousness. All su~sequent to this was a blank, with
the exception of a confused notion, as of something
in a dream that many hands had touched her own.
Third Sitting.
This time, Mr. K-- brought to us, as his
mesmeric patient, a young man of about seventeen
years of age, whom·I shall call Theodore, the son of
most respectable persons in Antwerp. Mr. K--
had already mesmerised him several times, and had
excited our curiosity respecting him by detailing to
us extraordinary proofs of his powers· of vision in the
state of sleepwaking. From the moment of his
70 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
entering the room, this young man prepossessed
every one in his favour. His quiet, and even timid
manners, and his ingenuous countenance, made us
feel that we might rely upon, as genuine, any phe-
nomena he might exhibit. He was in a state of
perfect health.
In about ten minutes from the time he was
submitted, in the usual manner, to the influence of
Mr. K-- he ·gave tokens of having passed into the
mesmeric state, his head following every motion of
the mesmeriser's hand. Slight shudderings, from
time to time, seemed to pass over his frame, and
were occasionally repeated during the whole time ·
of his sleepwaking. This unusual state was ac·
companied by a marked change in his demeanour.
He seemed to have lost his shyness, and conversed
with Mr. K- in an unembarrassed manner, as
if no longer conscious of the presence of strangers.
He became more animated, frequently laughed
aloud, and even went the length of committing a
pleasantry. When led up to a very pretty git:l in
company, the mesmeriser (in order to try his powers
of vision) said, "Savez vous qui est ce jeune homme?"
to which Theodore replied directly, "Je voudrais
bien voir un jeune homme aussi joli que cela."
The principal phenomena which I noted in the
case of Mademoiselle M-- were all developed in
this sleepwaker, with the slight exception of his
more patiently suffering the mesmeriser to go to a
short distance from him. On the former, however,
trying to steal from the apartment as noiselessly as
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 71 .
possible, be rushed to him and dragged him back
with considerable agitation, which was only calmed
by the mesmeriser caressing him, as it were, with
the hand. On all occasions he testified the strongest
attachment and affection to Mr. K- frequently
leaning his bead upon the shoulder of the latter, and
running to him, when placed at a little distance, on
the slightest motion of his hand, with such simple
and .natural gestures as a ehild uses when, half
playfully, it runs for shelter to its mother's side.
His physical attraction towards the mesmeriser was
88 strongly marked as the mental. As he was sitting
down, Mr. K-- approached his hand to the leg
of the patient, and then slowly drew it upward.
The limb, as if compelled to follow, rose also, and,
as long as Mr. K- held his hand over it,
remained in a raised position.
A very important proof that this physical attrac-
tion was wholly independent of the patient's imagin·
ation was the following :- Theodore was standing
with his back to the mesmeriser, while some one
engaged his attention in front, and the mesmeriser
going to a good distance, so as to render any cog·
nisance of his gestures by feeling impossible, gently
beckoned towards him the patient, who actually ran
backwards for some steps, then, turning quickly
round, hastened to the mesmeriser. Community
of sensation was manifested not only by a recog·
nition of·what the mesmeriser ate or drank, but in
another way, which seemed to indicate that the sense
of feeling, 88 well 88 of taste, was placed in some
72 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
mysterious communication with the corresponding
function of the mesmeriser. Mr. K-- having
left Theodore standing apart for a few instants, went
to the fire and warmed himself. During this time
the patient rubbed his hands and spread them out,
as if over the flame, precisely as the mesmeriser did,
and with a look of evident satisfaction and enjoy-
ment. Mr. K-- said, "Que faites vous la
Theodore?" "Je m'echauffe" was the answer.
Our young patient also exhibited other pheno-
mena, which I have since found to be generally
characteristic of mesmeric sleepwaking, and which
I shall call-
Occasional Community of Motion witlt the Mes-
meriser. - Isolation from all others than the Mes-
meriser.
In illustration of the first, I might adduce the fa~t,
that there was no person present who did not remark
that, in walking, Theodore took the step and air of
Mr. K-- as if his body were a machine directed by
the mesmeriser. But this may be objected to as a
proof not sufficiently rigorous. The correctness, how-
ever, ofthe following experiment cannot be contested.
. The mesmeriser was placed with his back to the
patient. In this position, the former made sundry
grimaces and contortions of visage, which were
exactly and simultaneously imitated by the latter.
Secondly. Upon first passing into the mesmeric
state, Theodore seemed absolutely insensible to every
other than the mesmeriser's voice. Some of our
.MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 73
party went close to him, and shouted his name, but
he gave no tokens of hearing us, until Mr. K--,
taking our hands, made us touch those of Theodore
and his own at the same time. This he called
putting us " en rapport " with the patient. After
this, Theodore seemed to hear our voices equally
with that of the mesmeriser, but by no means to pay
an equal attention to them.
With regard to development of vision, the eyes of
the patient appeared to be firmly shut during the
whole sitting, and yet he gave the following proofs
ofaccurate sight : -
Without being guided by our voices (for in making
the experiment we kept carefully silent} he dis-
tinguished between the different persons present and
the colours of their dresses. He also named with
accuracy various objects on the table, such as a
miniature picture, a drawing by Mr. K--, &c.
When the mesmeriser left him, and ran quickly
amongst the chairs, tables, &c., of the apartment, he.
followed him, running also, and taking the same
turns, without once coming in contact with any thing
that stood in his way.
He told the hour accurately by Mr. K-'s
watch.
He played several games at dominos with the
different members of our family, as readily as if his
eyes had been perfectly open. On these occa-
sions the lights were placed in front of him, and he
arranged his dominos on the table with their backs
to the candles in such a manner that, when I placed
E
74 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
my head in the same position as his own, I could
scarcely, through the shade, distinguish one from the
other. Yet he took them up unerringly, never
hesitated in his play,. generally won the game, and
announced the sum of the spots on such of hia
dominos as remained over at the end, before his
adversaries could count theirs. One of our party,
a lady, who had been extremely incredulous on the
subject of mesmerism, stooped down so as to look
under his eyelids all the time he played, and declared
herself convinced and satisfied that his eyes were
perfectly dosed. It was not always, however, that
Theodore could be prevailed upon to exercise his
power of vision. Some words, written by the
mesmeriser, of a tolerable size, being shown him, be
declared (as Mademoiselle M-- did on another
occasion) that it was too small for him to distinguish.
Towards the conclusion of the sitting, the patient
seemed much fatigued, and, going to the sofa, arranged
a pillow for himself comfortably under his head, after
which he appeared to pass into a state more akin to
natural sleep than his late sleepwaking. Mr. K--
allowed him to repose in this manner for a short
time, and then awoke him by the usual formula.
A very few motions of the hand were sufficient to
restore him to full consciousness, and to his usual
eharacter. The fatigue of which he had so lately
complained seemed wholly to have passed away,
together with the memory of all that he had been
doing for the last hour.
. I must now pause to set before my reader my o~
liiEBllllERIC BLEEPWAJUNG··
itate of mind respecting the facts I had witnessed.
I perceived that important deductions might be
drawn from them, and that they bore upon disputed
questions of the highest interest to man, connected
with the three great mysteries of being-life, death,
and immortality. On these grounds I was resolved
to enter upon a consistent course of inquiry con-
cerning them : though, as yet, while all was new and
wonderful to my apprehensions, I could scarcely do
more than observe and verify phenomena. It was,
however, necessary that my views, though for the
present bounded, should be distinct. I had already
asked respecting mesmeric sleepwaking - does it
exist ? and to this question the cases which had fallen
under my notice, and which were above suspicion,
eeemed to answer decidedly in the affirmative. But
it was essential still further to inquire - does it
exist so generally as to be pronounced a part -
though a rarely developed part- of the human con•
stitution? In order to determine this, it was requi-
site to obserYe how far individuals of different ages,
stations, and temperaments, were capable of mesme-
ric sleepwaking. I resolved, therefore, by experi-
menta on as extensive a scale as possible, to.ascertain
whether the state in question were too commonly ex-
hibited to be exceptional or idiosyncratic. Again, the
two cases that I had witnessed coincided in charac-
teristics. But could this coincidence be acciden-
tal ? It might still be asked, were the phenomena
they displayed uncertain, mutable, such as might
never occur again;- or were they orderly, invariable,
E 2
76 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING;
the growth offixed causes,which, being present,implied
their presence also? In fine, was mesmeric sleepwak-
ing, not only a state, but entitled to rank as a distinct
state, clearly and permanently characterised ; and, as
such, set apart from all other abnormal conditions of
man ? On its pretensions to be so considered, rested, I
conceived, its claims to notice and peculiar investiga-
tion. To decide this point was, therefore, one of my
chiefobjects; and respecting itI wasdetermined toseek
that certainty which can only be attained by a careful
comparison of facts occurring under the same cir-
cumstances. To sum up my intentions, -I desired
to show that man, through external human influence,
is capable of a species of sleepwaking differing
from the common, not only inasmuch as it is other-
wise produced, but as it displays quite other charac-
teristics when produced.
Thus the inquiry on which I desired to enter was
twofold, for I had to consider-
1st. Sleepwaking, as mesmerically induced.
2d. As possessing, when so induced, its own class of
phenomena.
Before relating with what success I pursued the
above objects, it is necessary that I should say a few
words as to the plan to which I shall adhere in the
detail of my "proofs by experiments." Each branch
nfmy inquiry ought, perhaps, to be treated separately;
but, in that case, I should have, in the first instance,
only to draw up a barren statement of the number of
'different persons, in whom I had seen sleepwaking
induced ; and then I should have to return to these
~SMERIC SLEEPWAKING•.
same cases for an elucidation of the constancy of the
phenomena.
This would be at once cumbrous and useless, and
I therefore take the simpler course of detailing my
~esmeric cases just as they occurred, strengthening
my cause at once by their number and by their
identity of feature. That I should thus let the two
arguments run parallel has this advantage also,- I
present a portrait of mesmeric sleepwaking from the
outset- a very needful preliminary. So at least
will they who differ from me in opinion be sure that
they and I are speaking of the same thing.
It may be also that to paint mesmerism as it is
will remove objections to its validity more surely than
a method more elaborate. It should never be f6>r-
gotten that in all states there is a spurious and a true ;
and of our unfortunate subject it may especially be
affirmed that there exist many counterfeit present-
ations. It has been drawn by its enemies, and even
in early times by its friends, as a convulsed and de-
crepid hag, with Superstition on her right hand and
Spleen upon her left; but the influence whereof! treat
is ofa tranquil brow, andhas Truth and Reason for her
handmaids. Should I become tedious by presenting
again and again the same features to view, I have at
least thus much to urge in mydefence: each successive.
copy ofthe original type strengthens the evidence that
the thing is; while, if the picture once drawn be faith-
fully adhered to, there will be every reason to con-.
elude that the thing is such as represented, and no
other. Facts, unaccompanied by deductions, may,
E 3
78 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
indeed, be wearisome ; but, at present, the great
point is to portray phenomena as they occurred :
for a discussion upon mesmerism is not like a discus-
sion upon any known science, which men are at least
agreed to treat as a reality. The inquiry is not
merely into its nature but its very existence.
I must further observe that, with regard to the
great characteristics of mesmerism, I have never had
occasion to change my opinion from the beginning.
I trusted to my impressions then, on the ground that
the first view of a subject often seizes its character the
best, and that a fresh eye will fix upon the salient
points of phenomena, to which habit may afterwards
blunt the perceptions. Thus reasoning, I have not
since been convicted of erroneous views. The pro-
duction of a bodily sleep through another's influence,
while the mind continued waking - the community
of motion and sensation with the mesmeriser -the
development of the perceptions, - tbese were the
phenomena which, from the first, struck me in
mesmerism as the most important, the most replete
with interest; and they seem so still. I have beheld
them often enough repeated to fix in my mind a con-
viction of their truth ; and, believing, as I do, that
they may be brought borne to every man's business
and bosom, I am anxious to impart to others the
belief which I possess mysel£
Thus, then, it is my intention plainly to narrate
that which I have witnessed, leaving it in general to
my reader to refer to their separate tracts of inquiry
the phenomenawhich I shall detail, and to mark thew
HESliiER.IC SLEEPWAKINO~ 7t
~rrespondence with others previously observed.
Nor shall I confine myself altogether to a descri~
tion of the completed state of mesmerism, since I con-
ceive it to be interesting in its dawn also ; and it is in-
structive to see in certain cases, the same phenomena,
indieated in their rise, which were, in others, deve-
loped during their progress. At any rate the begin-
nings of mesmeric sleepwaking, E-ven if they go
no further, tend to prove that there is an influence
which one human being can exert over another, -
hitherto but partially observed, yet more general than
is usually supposed. By such cases my first lemma
is advantaged, even if the second is not benefited
by it.
It may be even that the imperfect cases of mesmer-
ism present the strongest testimony to its truth. As
a foree confessedly acting on the nervous system, the
strong and the insusceptible should be altogether
subtracted from its influence, so that the circumstance
of such persons being subdued at all is more con-
vincing than the entire subjugation of the weaker and
more sensitive. That a healthy, unimaginative maa
should be reduced to a sort of spell-bound slumber
in :five or ten minutes, by the agency of another,
under circumstances the most unfavourable to sleep,
strikes the .mind, perhaps, as much as any of the
mightier miracles of mesmerism. It is a fact, of
which the senses are clearly cognisant, and it bas
made its converts accordingly. It is true that, in the
physical sciences, the detail of an imperfect experi-
,ment is alwgether futile; but it is not so in respec;t
E 4 . .
80 MESMERIC SLEEPWAJUNG.
of the investigation of mind. Relative to this, the
merest trifle is important, the slightest indication
interesting. Besides, every state has a beginning,
a middle, and an end; and the first is surely best
examined when it remains stationary, instead of
merging rapidly in the others. Let my reader, then,
keep in mind that I divide mesmeric sleepwaking
into imperfect and perfect; the former being alto-
gether in harmony with and elucidating the latter.
In all the subsequent experiments, I was myself
the operator, having, through the kindness of Mr.
K--, received such instructions as put it hi my own
power to practise the mesmeric art; for it is plain
that the course, on which I was desirous of entering,
required that I should he independent of the extra-
neous assistance which I could by no means always
have at hand, and demanded the full force of the
most careful and personal experience.
CASE I.
The first person whom I succeeded in mesmerising
was Theodore. The phenomena of the third sitting
were repeated - with this additional proof of the pa-
tient's community ofsensation with the mesmeriser:-
A member of our party, having heard it asserted
that mesmerised persons could feel any injury that
was inflicted on the mesmeriser, standing behind me,
pulled my hair, without warning, and without a pos-
sibility of my patient being made aware of the cir-
cumstance in any usual way; -for, first, his eyes
·were closed; secondly, his head was bent down and
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKIN«S. 81
drooping, as frequently happens in the mesmeric
sleepwaking; thirdly, the position in which I stood
completely screened from him the person who tried
the experiment. Nevertheless, Titeodore immediately
winced as if he himself had felt the injury, and put
up his hand to that par~ of the back of my head
where my hair had been pulled, throwing his arm
round my neck, as if to defend me from any other
attacks that might be made upon me.
I observed that when he exerted himself to play at
dominos he was more particularly affected by those
slight convulsive twitchings which I had remarked
on a former occasion.
CASE II.
A. L--, a Belgian gentleman of our acquaint-
ance, who thoroughly laughed at mesmerism, con-
sented, mockingly, one evening, to let me mesmerise
him. He was twenty-three years of age-in good
health; - in character imaginative, but of a scoffing
turn, and lively even to boisterousness. On first
sitting down, while I held his hands in the usual
mesmeric manner, he laughed much and made·
ridiculous faces, opening his eyes, and pretending, in
his turn, to mesmerise me. Shortly, however, the
same drowsy expression which I had remarked in
M~demoiselle M-- stole over his countenance.
He became serious, and seemed to struggle against
the torpor which was evidently coming over him.
At length, as if disliking to be vanquished, he got up
from his chair with evident effort, and walked about
E 5
82 QSMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
the room, but soon, complaining of an irresistible
drowsiness, lay down, as if be did not at all know
what he was doing, on the sofa, in the presence of
ladies, before whom, under other circumstances, he
never would have dreamed of committing such a
breach of etiquette. I came to him, and, curious to
know how far my influence over him might extend,
made the usual mesmeric passes in front of him.
Upon this, his upper eyelids, with a motion almost
as slow and imperceptible as that of the hour hand
of a watch, began to fall, while his eyeballs seemed
drawn upwards. After a time, the lids became
stationary and remained a little open, showing only
the whites of the eye. His bead began to follow the
motions of my hand. I now asked him if be slept,
to which be replied, in a very low voice, " Not
altogether ; I wish I could." "Do you sufFer in any
way?" I inquired. " Yes, I have a pain in the back
of my head."
Upon this, I made mesmeric passes over the part
afFected, and soon after asked -
Q. -Do you feel better now ?
A. - Yes, the pain is quite gone.
Q.-Do you wish to be awakened?
A.- No, I wish to sleep more soundly.
Q. - Why do you not open your eyes wider?
A. - I cannot; it is as if lead were on them (Ds
sont comme plombes).
Q.- Can you see any thing?
A. -I see you.
Q. -Nothing else?
XESliiEIUC BLEEPWAE.ING•
A.- Nothing whatever.
I now made a motion as if I were going away,
when suddenly the patient seized my hands, one in
each orhis, and exclaimed, " You must not go away,
on any aceount.'' After this, he grasped my banda
10 tightly that it would have been no easy matter fo~:
me to liberate them. Fearing to irritate him, I
remained quiet, and as long as I did so he lay per·
fectly motionless, but always with his eyes a littl~
open. His complexion, which was naturally pale,
was changed to a ghastly hue, and his whole appear-
ance was so death-like that the spectators in the room
became alarmed, and I own that I was myself un-
easy. To my queations, however, l1e replied that he
did not wish to wake,- that he was very well, but
that I must not leave him. Thus circumstanced, I
eearcely knew what course to take. That he should
be awakened was desirable, for it was late ; but every
efFort that I made to free my hands only made him
grasp them more fir~nly. My position was sufficiently
ridiculous. I had raised a spirit which I could not
queJl, and the work of my own hands had become
as unmanageable as the creation of Frankenstein.
At length, after matters had remained in this state a
full hour, I so strongly insisted upon his awaking,
that he reluctantly permitted me to take the neces-
"'Y measures for arousing him. I then made befor~
the patient the motions which are usually employed
for dispersing the mesmeric slumber; and it was
curious to observe how quickly, by means (as it
teemed) of these few and simple gestures, the torpor
E 6 .
.84 .MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING,
passed away. At the same time, the natural colour
.and appearance returned to the countenance of my
patient, who got up, rubbed his eyes, looked much
confused at having slept in the company of ladies
(a circumstance that shocked his foreign politeness),
and, with many apologies, bade us hastily good
night. The next day, when I called to inquire after
him, he seemed to be half ashamed of his mesmeric
-exploits, but owned that the way in which he had
been affected was at least a convincing proof to him
of the influence he had denied. A drowsiness, he
said, and slight confusion of head were still felt by
him; and these, he declared, were relieved by my
moving my hand across his forehead. When I asked
him what he remembered of his mesmeric state, he
said that it seemed to him as if he had always retained
in it a sort of twilight consciousness, and that he
recollected having been very anxious to exchange
these " twinklings of oblivion" for a deeper slumber.
Of my having spoken to him, however, or ·of his
having answered me, he remembered nothing ; and
when I told him how forcibly he had kept me near
him, he was much surprised.
Shortly after making the foregoing experiments, I
returned to England, it being the spring of 1837.
Like a person full of a new subject, I discoursed,
amongst my friends, upon what I had witnessed of
the mesmeric influence. The result may be ima-
gined. Those who knew me well were forced to
believe that I had really beheld the phenomena I
described; but here they were content to stop. It
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 85
'WaS all very extraordinary, they declared, and they
would rather not think about it. Some swore-
" 'Twas strange- 'twas passing strange."
And others that-
"'Twas pitiful- 'twas wondrous pitiful."
A few, more sagacious than the rest, surmised that it
savoured of the black art; and the ladies thought,'
indeed, that " the naughty man might have some-
thing to do with it." One or two confessed that they
were too old for the introduction of new ideas into
their brains-,- and I fully believed them when they
said so. More distant acquaintances listened to my
story with a look of polite incredulity; - others
yawned. ·
The practice of the Baron Dupotet, and the
efforts of Mr. Mayo and Dr. Lardner in promulgat•
ing Dr. Elliotson's experiments, had not yet familiar-
ised the London world with, at least, the name of
mesmerism; -so, in the great thinking, unthinking
metropolis, I met with scarce any disciples of the
new creed. The only experiment, therefore, which
I had any opportunity of making was upon a young
cousin of my own,-a lad of about fifteen. He,
however, proved at that time insensible to the mes-
meric influence; but he took an interest in the
subject of mesmerism, and actually tried to mesmerise
a younger brother of his, who was not more than
twelve years old. The results of his attempt are
sufficiently curious to tempt me to swerve from my
86 MESMERIC SLBEPWAKING. -
usual rule of only recording that which I have
personally observed. Besides, the actors in the little
drama are so well known to me, that it almost
appears as if I had been eye-witness to the scene, the
circumstances of which were related to me by the
mother of the two boys.
The elder, in her presence, sat down, partly in
joke, to mesmerise his brother, who was wholly
ignorant of the process and effects of mesmerism;
and, taking the hands of his patient, went through
the forms of which he had seen me make use when
mesmertsmg. Be it remarked that the time was
midday, when the light, the noise in the streets, and
the natural ·liveliness of youth, would particularly
indispose a boy to slumber. Nevertheless, in about
ten minutes, a manifest effect was produced. The
patient's eyes closed as by a spell, and his head
followed the mesmeriser's hand in the usual manner.
Charles, the elder brother, now got up from his
chair, when Edward rose also. The former raised
his right arm ; the latter immediately raised his ; -
his left arm -the same result. Charles walked
forward - Edward advanced also. Charles stopped,
and Edward stood still on the instant; - in short,
all the gestures of the one were faithfully imitated
by the other. But the mother became now alarmed,
and insisted upon the young mesmeriser awaking
his patient. This was soon effected, and Edward,
opening his eyes, and staring about like one just
startled from slumber, expressed the greatest as-
tonishment at finding himself standing in the mi<ldle
.llri.BSHBRIC SUEPW.AJUNG. 87
of the room, - declaring, at the same time, that his
unconsciousness had been complete.
In one point of view the above relation lays claim
to a peculiar interest. The effects of a new influence,
when manifested by the young, are especially to be
relied upon ; they can be neither prompted nor im-
peded by those prepossessions which are the growth
ofmaturer years ; nor can they be attributed to those
nervous imaginings which spring from infirmity.
Youth, moreover, is the season of candour, when all
is bold, healthy, unsophisticated; and the phenomena
which it exhibits are valuable in proportion as they
are exempt from the suspicion which attaches to the
doings of the older inhabitants of this crafty world.
88 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.:
SECT. II.
SHOWING THE CLAIMS OF MESMERIC SLEEPWAJtiNG
TO BE CONSIDERED A PECULIAR CONDITION OF MAN•.
In the spring of 1837, I went to Cambridge, on a
visit to some friends. That I should have succeeded
in interesting them, and others of the University,
upon the:subject nearest my thoughts, will not sur-
prise those who have observed that, where science is
most studied, new statements respecting natural
phenomena obtain the most patient bearing. I did,
in fact, at Cambridge, meet with many persons really
desirous of witnessing experiments in mesmerism, and
even of submitting themselves to the mesmeric
influence.
CASE III.
In my first essay of mesmerism, at Cambridge, I
experimented - before seven or eight persons -
upon a servant, whom I had brought from Belgium,
a man of about 27 years of age, in good health, lively
and quick-tempered; able also to speak English. I
had attempted to mesmerise him once before, but, at
that time, he had advanced no further than imperfect
sleepwaking, during which he retained his con-
sciousness, but could neither move nor open his eyes.
On the present occasion, after a quarter of an hour's
mesmerisation, he closed his eyes, but seemed restless,
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 89
and, in answer to a question I made him, declared
that it was impossible for him to sleep on account of
noises in the street and the constraint caused by the
presence of so many persons. Scarcely, however, had
he said this, when I perceived that his head followed
my hand ; and, continuing the mesmeric passes for
about five minutes more, I again asked him if he felt
disposed to sleep. To my surprise, (for I had
not expected a perfect result so soon) he replied,-
" I am asleep." " Can you rise from your chair?"
I inquired. " Yes, but I had rather stay quiet."
When, however, I got up and removed to a short
distance from the patient, he also rose and moved a
step or two towards me, but tottered and would have
fallen, had I not hastened to his assistance. He
leaned heavily against me, and seemed unable to
stand without my support; I therefore placed him
in a chair, when he complained of a pain at the chest,
and begged me earnestly to wake him. " Can you
·not awake of yourself?" I asked; to which he
replied, " By no means - but I beg of you to
awake me." Reluctant to do so without exhibiting
to the party present some of the marked phenomena
of mesmerism, I soothed my patient as well as I could,
and persuaded him to remain a little while longer in
the state of sleepwaking. As he, however, mani-
festly suffered, I was unwilling to fatigue him by
many experiments. The following were the prin-
cipal: -wine, water, and coffee were handed to me,
and I tasted them, successively, in such a way as to
prevent the patient from perceiving, by .any usual
90 l!IESMERIC SLEEl'WAJtiNG.
means, what the liquids were. He, however, cor.-
rectly named them in their order. The order was
then changed, and the results ofthe experiment were
the same.
Flowers were given me to smell : I was holding
the patient by one hand, at the time, but turning
altogether away from him to a table, over which I
bent, so as to interpose myself between him and any
thing that might be banded to me. He, however,
when I smelt to the flowers, imitated the action, and
on my asking him what he perceived, replied, without
hesitation " flowers." Upon this, one of the party
silently changed the flowers for a bottle of eau tk
colOf!M, when he observed, " That is not the same
smell; it is eau de cologne." With the manner of
conducting this experiment, and its results, all who
were present declared themselves perfectly satisfied.
The patient, on being awakened, declared that he
remembered nothing of what had passed since the
moment when he complained of the noise in the
street. His mesmeric sleepwaking had been com-
plete.
CASE IV.
T. S., an undergraduate of Trinity College, con-
sented to try how far I could influence him mes-
merically. He possessed abilities of no common
order, was extremely lively, by no means ofa wonder-
~king nature, and altogether seemed the last
person in the world who could be worked upon by
.nervous apprehensions. He sat down ~o be mesme~
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKINGO Ul
•
ised, laughingly, and with perfect calmness. In about
ten minutes his eyelids drooped, and closed gradually;
his head followed my hand ; his features became
fixed and rigid ; his colour fled, and a dead stillness
came over his countenance : the change was the
more striking on account of the usually animated and
mobile character of his physiognomy. It painfully
resembled the alteration caused by death. Neverthe-
less, on being interrogated as to his state, he declared
that he was well, with the exception of a sJight pain
in the hack ofhis head•, which was shortly relieved by
the mesmeric passes. To other questions he replied
that he did not sleep, but was unable to move, or to
open his eyes. As, after long mesmerisation, I saw
no probability of his advancing further into slee~
waking, I awoke him in the usual manner, when
his countenance resumed its accustomed expression.
On attempting, however, to rise, he complained
of feeling extremely weak and dizzy, and, for a short
time, he was unable to stand with any firmness. He
was convinced that he had experienced the effects of
an influence independent of the imagination.
CASE V.
C. M., a bachelor of Trinity, aged about twenty-
five, submitted to be mesmerised ; he was clever,
thoughtful, and rather grave in character. On first
sitting down, he seemed very wakeful, and declared
that it would be strange, it; under circumstances the
• See~ii. .
92 MESMERIC SLEEPWA.IUNG.
most unfavourable to sleep, he could be charmed intO
any thing like drowsiness. In about a quarter of an
hour, during which a perfect silence was by no means
observed, some force seemed to close his eyes as
irresistibly as if they had been touched by Mercury's
wand of slumbrous notoriety, and he passed into a
state of imperfect sleepwaking, in which his head
followed my hand and he answered my questions.
On my removing to a short distance from him, he
leant forward towards me, and would have fallen,
had I not resumed my former position. I awoke
him in about half an hour ; he had not been in any
way, unpleasantly affected, and retained a vague
recollection of an agreeable state of reverie, similar to
that which precedes slumber.
CASE VI,
On this occasion some ten or twelve persons were
assembled to witness my experiments ; and amongst
them was a man of luminous intellect and varied
acquirements, whom I was naturally desirous of
interesting in the question of mesmerism. He was
decidedly sceptical on the subject, but I knew that
his was a mind which, if once fairly convinced,
would be firmest in faith and foremost in investi-
gation. I was therefore vexed when, after long mes-
merisation, my servant, whom, from his having once
passed into perfect sleepwaking, I had chosen as
the subject of our experiments, remained unintlu.,
enced. Two or three of the party, tired of waiting
for a result that came not, went away, and the person
MESMERIC SLEEPWAXING. 93
whom I was chiefly anxious to convince, and whom I
will call V--, having an engagement, was about to
follow their example, when I urged him to stay a very
short time longer, while I tried another patient,
D. C., an undergraduate of Trinity, who wished, as
he said, to try the effects of mesmerism, in order to
prove their nothingness. After this, I need not add
that he was very incredulous on the subject; every
circumstance seemed to diminish the probability of
my success. The man I had agreed to mesmerise
was in the strength of three and twenty years of age,
six feet in height, and muscular in proportion. The
stillness of the meeting, once broken, could not be
restored. Persons were talking, and moving about
the room, and my recent failure had thrown an air
of ridicule about the proceedings of the evening,
which, if the mesmeric influence were dependent
on imagination, would have been sufficient to annihi-
late it at once. V- looked hopeless of seeing
any thing remarkable, and had taken up a book.
The following facts then occurred: -
I had not held the hands of D. C. more than five
minutes, when I remarked a dizzy look about his
eyes, which is peculiarly indicative of the incipient
stage of mesmeric sleepwaking. Encouraged by
this success, I had recourse to the mesmeric passes,
when by d,egrees the eyes of the patient closed, and
shortly after the head followed every motion of my
hand. V- , at this moment looking up from his
book, was surprised to see what had been effected.
I beckoned him to come near, and, by reiterated
94 KESMERIC SLEEPWA.JUNG.
trials, convinced him that my hand had an attractive
power over the patient.
I now spoke to D. C., and asked him if he were
asleep; to which he rP.plied, "Not precisely." I then,
at V--'s request said, "How do you feel." "Very
strangely," he said, "as I never felt before." Shordy
afterwards, V- himself spoke to the patient, and I
called him by his name, but he seemed to pay no at-
tention to the circumstance. When V-- happened
to lay his hand upon his shoulder, the effect of the
touch was like that of an electric shock. The patient's
whole body quivered, his features were convulsed, his
countenance became deadly pale, and he seemed to
gasp for breath, like a person who has been suddenly
immersed in cold water. Nevertheless, he did not
awake, and the affection, whatever it was, seemed
entirely physical (as if his mind had no longer its
usual partnershipwith the body). He himselfappeared
to be unaware of it; and, when I asked him what
bad disturbed him -what was the matter with him,
he said that he felt nothing whatever. Still, however,
he continued to tremble, until by the application of
my hand to his forehead, and by mesmeric passes
from the head downwards, I restored him to tran-
quillity. V-, whom, since he touched him, the
patient seemed to hear equally with myself, now
recommenced speaking, and asked D. C. if he knew
him. He replied in the affirmative, and named him.
•' Do you see at all?" V- inquired. "Not much;
I see a red light about so large ; " and D. C. made a
circular motion with his hands to express ·the size of
HESIIERIC 8LEEPWAKING. 95
the light. I then asked him, " Do you see me?" to
which he answered " Yes, I seeyou always." " Well,"
I said, " I wish you now to get up from your chair."
" Oh no, no ! I prefer staying where I am ; but you
must stay with me." "No I " I replied, " I am
going: " whereupon, he seized both my hands, and
exclaimed, " You must, on no account, leave me."
I, however, rose up, when the patient also rose; I
walked forward, and he walked also, but unsteadily,
and leaning upon me. As he seemed to dislike
remaining in an upright position, I placed him in a
chair in a part ofthe room opposite to where he had
been. I then proceded to show V- some of the
characteristic phenomena of mesmerism. I drank
wine, water, coffee, with the usual precautions, and
the patient distinguish~ them all, going through the
motionsof tasting simultaneously with myself. There
were various articles of food upon the table, amongst
others some sandwiches. These last were given me,
and he said directly, "You are eating sandwich."
This may seem strange-it is so to myself; but I
state the fact as it occurred. Some snuff that I took
from the chimney-piece behind me, turning my back,
and suppressing, as much as possible, the usual indi-
cations of smelling, was named directly; this being
exchanged for flowers, the result was equally satia-
factory.
Remembering with what acuteness of perception
Mademoiselle M- had distinguished between
objects that did or did not belong to her mesmerist,
I asked for the pocket-handkerchiefs of all the ~·
96 MESMERIC SLF.EPWAKING.
twisted up my own in the midst of them, and
laid them on the knee of D. C. He was immediately
affected with slight shuddering; and tossed away very
quickly all the pocket-handkerchiefs but mine. The
experiment, repeated, gave the same results ; but the
second time he grasped and firmly held my hand-
kerchief, until the time of his awaking.
At a yard's distance his hand rose up to meet
mine, as iron flies to the magnet. From the approach
of other hands he recoiled.
These experiments concluded, V-- said to me-
" I am now satisfied that all you asserted to me re-
specting the mesmeric state is correctly true. I do
not know that we are liable to elicit any new fact by
keeping D. C. any longer asleep. He looks ill and
suffering, and I think you had better wake him."
Upon this, I asked the patient if he desired to
wake, and he replied " Yes ; I feel much fatigued."
I awoke him, by the usual mesmeric passes, when
he expressed the utmost astonishment at finding him-
self in a different part of the room from that where
he had first been mesmerised. The last half-hour
had been a blank to him, with this single exception
-he thought that he remembered hearing V-'s
voice, asking him if he knew him. Faithful, however,
to his character, he refused to believe that he had
exhibited the phenomena to which we bore witness.
The next day, as may be supposed, I talked over
with V- the circumstances of our mesmeric even-
ing. I found him entirely persuaded that mesmeric
sleepwaking was a distinct state, worthy to be
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 97
investigated as a part of man. His concluding
words were these: -
" I thank you for having enlarged my experience
by facts perfectly new to it. I have seen a some-
thing which is not sleep, which is not delirium, but a
tertium quid, for which, as yet, we have no accurate
name. The thing is most interesting, but should, I
see, be exercised with caution. The effect of my
touching D. C. was fearful. You have verified many
phenomena. It has occurred to me that you might
try, when you have an opportunity, whether the sense
of touch in the mesmerised sympathises with that in
the mesmeriser, as do the senses of smell and taste.
Try whether, through you, the mesmerised person
may have a cognisance of form - whether he can
ascertain by means of your perceptions if you are
handling square objects or round - rough or
smooth." To this suggestion I promised to attend.
CASE VII,
On this occasion my patient was G. T--, aged
19, the son of a gentleman at whose house in
the country I spent a few days, after quitting Cam-
bridge. He was strong and healthy, and possessed
good sound sense, with but a trifling infusion of
imagination. After a quarter of an hour's mesmer-
isation he passed into imperfect sleepwaking, in
which state his corporeal powers were held in com-
plete and singular enthralment, while those of his
mind remained unaltered. Unlike my other sleep-
F
98 ,MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
wakers, he was utterly incapable of speaking dur-
ing the mesmeric trance, though, as he told me
subsequently, he heard every question I put to him,
and was desirous ·ofanswering me. He was also
unable to open his eyes, or to move, except so far as
regarded the involuntary tendency of his head to-
wards my hand. Another time, being curious to ascer-
tain how far the influence (whatever it might be}
which I exercised over the patient was dependent upon
physical causes, I made the experiment of mesmer-
ising him in the open air, on a fine June day, when
the weather was warm, but refreshed by partial
breezes. The following were the differences between
this mesmerisation and the last: -
The patient did not close his eyes so soon as on
the preceding occasion, nor pass into the imperfect
crisis by so regular a progression.
In the beginning of his sleep, the power to move
and to open his eyes seemed slightly restored when-
ever the gust came by.
He told me afterwards that when I commenced
mesmerising the action of the.air produced a decided
difference in his sensations. When the wind swept
across his forehead it was, he said, as if there were a
disturbance of some drowsy weight that was gather-
ing over it. By degrees, however, he became in-
sensible to this apparent remission of the sleeping
influence. Nothing, he declared, could be more sin-
gular than the feeling of utter inability to speak, move,
or open his eyes. He heard me command him, urge
him, in every way, to answer my questions, but his
. MESMERIC SLEEPWAKIN«.. . 99
organs of speech seemed to be as completely para-
lysed as those of vision. In fact, the only external
indication that he had given of his desire to reply
to me was the slightest possible motion of his lips.
CASE VIII.
The family with whom I was staying having but
few prejudices on the subject of mesmerism, I was
permitted- in consideration, I suppose, of my years
and gravity - to mesmerise the sister of my preced-
ing patient, a young lady of most amiable temper,
cheerful, and by no means of a nervous temperament.
Of the experiment to be tried she had no apprehen-
sion, as she had already seen her brother support mes-
merisation withoutinjury ; and itshould be especially
kept in mind that her ideas of the mesmeric state
were limited to what she herself had witnessed of it;
for I had expressly abstained from describing the
higher phenomena of sleepwaking to herself or to
any member of her family, in order that their minds
might be uninfluenced on the subject. Under these
circumstances, to ascribe the curious results which I
am about to detail to imagination or to imitation
would be absurd.
I sat down to mesmerise my patient about nine
o'c1ock in the evening. In about seven minutes her
eyes closed, and in three minutes more her head
followed my hand. I asked several times, " Do you
sleep? " but no answer was given, and I began to
fear that this incapacity of speech under mesmerism
was a family failing. At length, however, on a
F 2
100 'MESMERIC SLEEPWAKINO.
repetition of my question, Miss T- answered in a
very low voice, " Yes." From this time she replied to
all I said, and displayed the higher characteristics
of mesmeric sleepwaking in a perfection which I
never saw evinced upon a first essay. The effects of
mesmerisation upon the patient seemed to be alto-
gether of an agreeable nature. She felt no pain of
any kind, and her colour did not vary, or, if any
thing, was slightly heightened. Her appearance
only differed from the natural in these respects; -
her eyes were entirely closed, and her head, drooping
as if with the heaviness of slumber, swayed dizzily
from side to side, except when I strongly commanded
her attention, and desired her to raise her head, at
which times she seemed with an effort to resume
the power over her organisation. In this state, the
phenomena manifested by Miss T- may be
Tanged under the usual heads, as follows: -
lst. Attraction towards the mesmeriser. - Though
indisposed at first, like others in the mesmeric sleep,
to motion, Miss T--, when I arose from my chair,
rose also. Without touching her, I moved onwards,
and she seemed compelled to follow me. At one
time I ran quickly to a distance from her, when she
remained standing where I had left her, but bent
towards me, and wavered as if she would fall. I
made a motion with my arms as if I would draw her
to me, when, recovering herself, she slowly, and, as it
were, reluctantly, came to where I stood.
When her hands were lying on her lap, if I
held mine above them they were attracted upward,
more quickly as they drew nearer my own. It was
¥ESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.: 101
much like the effect which a piece of rubbed sealing-
wax has on a bit of paper. In proportion to the at-
traction towards her meameriser seemed the patient's
repulsion from others. If any but myself presented
their hands to her she drew back her own with a slow
but singularly repugnant shrinking, her fingers
becoming rigid and curved inwards. This experi-
ment was often repeated with the same results.
Remembering how painfully one of my patients had
been affected by an unadvised touch, I was careful
not to allow any one to come into actual contact with
Miss T--, until I had established what mesmerisers
call a " rapport" between the parties, and which is
effected by the mesmeriser taking, at the same mo-
ment, the patient's hand and that of a third person.
2dly. Community ofsensation with the mesmmser. -
Wine, water, and a stand of liqueurs were on a side-
table. Placing the patient as far from me as was con-
sistent with my still touching her hand, turning also
away from her, I tasted alternately water and wine,
between which she distinguished correctly, moving
her lips as if she herself were drinking. Some
brandy-and water, already mixed, was in a tumbler
on the table ; for this I suddenly changed the first
mentioned liquids, when the moment I had taken it
into my mouth the patient made wry faces, and ex-
claimed, " Nasty, nasty." " Why do not you like·
it?'' I asked. " Because it is too strong." " Have
you ever tasted it before?" " Yes, once, when I.
had a sore throat." "You know, then, what it is ?'1
"Yes; it is brandy and water."
F3
102 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKINQ.
A member of the party gave me, from behind,
some wild flowers, which the young people had
gathered that day. " Do you know what I am
smelling?" I inquired. " Something that comes
from the fields," was the reply.
The flowers were silently changed for snuff, when
the patient again exhibited symptoms of dislike. On
being asked the reason, she said, " I smell tobacco.''
It now occurred to me to try the experiment
which V- had suggested with respect to the cog-
nisance of form. With every precaution, I took up
from a table, on which were many other articles, a
small square box, and passed my finger over the
edges; I, at the same time, asked the patient, "Can
you tell me what sort of thing I am touching?"
Upon this Miss T-- made motions with her
fingers, as if she had the object under her own hand,
and replied, " It is something with edges, like a
box.'' I next took into my hand a chess-man,
some parts of which were carved in points, and felt
alternately the carved and uncarved portions of the
piece. Between these she discriminated correctly,
saying, " Now it feels rough; now smooth;'' and
always before speaking she went through the same
motions of touching with myself.
One of the patient's sisters, without giving notice
of her intention, went out of the room and fetched an
egg, which she concealed carefully in her hand and
gave me from behind. The patient now said, " I
feel something smooth and round." Being urged to
tell what it was, she said, " I think it is a ball.''
Stretching out my hand behind me, I whispered to
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKJNG; }0:1
one of the party, to hurt me in some way; I was
pricked with a pin, when my patient started and
shook her hand as if she felt the injury. On being
asked what she felt, she answered, " As if they
pricked my hand." ·
At another time, when I inquired ifshe suffered in'
any way, she replied, " No, only my feet are very
cold." My own feet being exceedingly cold at the mo-
ment, I suspected that her feeling was sympathetic :
I conjectured rightly, for, awaking soon after, she
assured me that her feet were perfectly warm.
3dly. Isolation from every one but the me~meriser.­
Even after having been placed "en rapport'' with
all present, the patient seemed incapable of hearing
any voice but mine, unless the person who spoke
were in actual contact with me and with herself at
the same time. On one occasion, when I was asking·
her if she knew what some object was that I held
before her, her father told her very loudly that it was
a wine-glass (which it actually was), but the patient
did not profit by the intelligence, for on being again
questioned she said impatiently, "I do not know;'
I cannot tell." Her name shouted close to her ear:
by different members of her family seemed to make
no impression whatever upon her organs of hearing;
-while, on the contrary, she attended to the
slightest word that I addressed to her.
4thly. Development of vision.- The patient's eyes·
were, to all appearance, firmly shut during the whole'
period of the mesmeric sleep. When I first asked
her if she saw any thing, she answered in the·
I' 4
J04 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
negative; but added, after a pause, " I see you."
After this. she seemed by degrees to acquire a more
general vision. She recognised, on being led up to
them, the several members of her family, consisting
of nine persons, and could not be deceived by any
change in their position. At length, I held a book
before her on a level with her eyes, when she,
without hesitation named what the object was.
Upon this I opened the book at the title-page, and
pressed her to try if she could distinguish any words.
She at first begged me not to trouble her to do this ;
but at length, as if making a great effort, she made
out the word " London," at the bottom of the page.
This was the first time I had seen any sleepwaker
read any written or printed word. The experiment,
however, though curious, was not strictly enough
conducted to serve as the basis of any theory on the
mysterious subject of vision through the closed, lids·
The book, at the moment when the word was dis-
tinguished, was resting upon the patient's lap, below
the level of her eyes. Those, however, who were
observant of the circumstance, could detect not the
smallest opening of the eyelids.
Holding my watch before the patient, in the usual
line of vision, I asked her the hour, when she correctly
told that it was five minutes to eleven.
Directly after this last experiment, I awoke my
patient, who testified great surprise at finding herself
on a chair instead of the sofa, where she last re-
membered to have been seated. Mr. T - now
came up to her and said, " H--, do you know.
MESMERIC SLEEPW.AKINO. IOQ
what o'clock it is?" to which she replied, " I suppose
about ten, or perhaps half-past nine. I am sure I
cannot tell/' Mr. T--, then said, " Why, it is
not five minutes since you told us the hour."
Upon this Miss T-- seemed much astonished,
but declared her utter ignorance of the circum-
stance, and indeed of all that had occurred during
her sleepwaking. The last thing which she recol-
lected was hearing me ask whether she slep~·
when she desired to answer me but could not. A
moment after, she became unconscious. Her feelings
after the mesmerisation was over were those of plea-
surable excitement, and she felt none of the heavi-
ness which sometimes succeeds sleepwaking. The
next morning she declared that she had not been
able to close her eyes all night, but had felt no want
of sleep, nor subsequendy did she experience any of
the lassitude usually resulting from a wakeful night.
On a second mesmerisation Miss T -- con-
firmed by repetition the results of most of the preced-
ing experiments. A cambric pocket-handkerchief
tied over her eyes made no difference whatever in
her powers of vision. She did not even seem to be
aware when I put on the bandage, or when I took it
off. While bandaged, she read the words " Edin-
burgh Guide," and "Travels in Russia," from the
tide-pages of two books, which I took up at random
from amongst others lying about the room, and held
before her, in about the usual position a person holds
~ book in reading. The effort to distinguish these
words seemed to be great, and subsequently Miss
II 5
106 MESMERIC SLEEPW.AitiNG.
T__,... refused to make any more exertions. I urged
her to look at my watch, but she remained silent,
and soon after large tears forced their way through
her closed lids. Having tranquillised my patient by
such motions of the hands as I have ever found bene-
ficial and soothing to mesmerised persons, I awoke
her, when she at once resumed her cheerfulness, and
began laughingly to ask her sisters what she had been
doing, and how long she had slept. She was not in
the least aware that she had been crying, and I begged
that she might not be told of it.
I might here, perhaps, close my series of proofs
relating to mesmeric sleepwaking and its pheno-
mena ; but, as regards this argument, numbers are
strength, and each additional instance of the mesmeric
sleep, accompanied by the same characteristics, is a
step towards that firm and decisive conclusion on the
subject, which can only be attained, on any, by a re-
petition of the same fact under the same circum-
stances. At the risk, therefore, of wearying my
readers, I add the following cases, which occurred
after I had returned to the Continent in 1837 :-
CASE IX.
J. G--, of Antwerp, aged 22, not very strong,
but having no particular ailment, was brought by
me into imperfect mesmeric sleepwaking. His head
followed my hand, and he was unable to move or
open his eyes, though he replied to my questions.
He felt a drowsiness during the whole of the day
succeeding to the mesmerisation.
XESHEBIC ILEEPWAKING. 107
CASE X.
W-, of Aix-la-Chapelle, aged 45, in delicate
health, of a calm, reflective mind, and sceptical as
well as uninformed on the subject of mesmerism, was
thrown into perfect sleepwaking at the first sittin,r.
He displayed the usual characteristics of the state.
There were circumstances relating to this patient
which I shall have occasion hereafter to detail, and
which are therefore omitted here.
C.'-SE XI,
T. B--, (English) aged nine, an extremely lively
boy, and full of the restlessness natural to his age, con-
sented to be mesmerised, but observed that he thought
he never should be able to sit still while I tried my
experiments. Notwithstanding this, and the time of
day (two o'clock), his eyes closed after about ten
minutes' mesmerisation, and shortly after he gave
every token of having passed into perfect sleep-
waking. He answered all my questions, heard no
other voice than mine, was attracted towards me in
the usual manner, and, with his eyes to all appearance
shut, saw me, and indicated the position of my handS
and the number of fingers which I held up before
him. In about half an hour he begged me to awake
him, and, on returning to the natural state, declared
that his unconsciousness had been complete.
CASE XII.
Mrs. 0 - a married English lady, clever and
F 6
108 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
firm-minded, was thrown by me into imperfect sleep-
waking in about a quarter of an hour. In this state
her countenance was pale, her head moved towards
my hand involuntarily, and she was unable to get up,
or to open her eyes, until I had de-mesmerised her.
CASE XIII.
R. V-----., a young Belgian, of the medical pro-
fession, was so far susceptible of the effects of mesmer-
ism as to display the usual symptoms of imperfect
sleepwaking. Having an engagement on the evening
that he was mesmerised, and rather ashamed of having
slept, he hurried away before the mesmeric drowsiness
had been entirely dispersed. The consequence was that
he nearly fell down in the street, and was obliged to
have recourse to the support ofa fellow student. On the
following day, he still felt a confusion in his head. This
is not the only occasion on which I have remarked that
the sensations which attend and follow an imperfect
crisis are by no means so agreeable as those which
result from complete sleepwaking. In the one case,
there is an apparent disturbance of the system, ac-
companied by feelings of drowsiness and fatigue-
in the other, the frame seems to be invigorated, and
a wakefulness and vivacity are the after symptoms. ,
CASE XIV.
At the time when this occurred, I was staying ata
country house in Switzerland, and my friends, the
Countess of- and Lord - were passing a. few
,MESMERIC SLEEPWAJUNG,
days at the town which was nearest our residentle.
Having heard ·from me some interesting detaillf.
respecting mesmerism, they were desirous of witness-
ing its phenomena; but, as no patient was forth-
coming, it seemed unlikely that the wishes of my.
noble friends would be gratified. However, late one
evening, the Countess sent her carriage and a note,
pressing me to come to her immediately, as she had.
met with some friends amongst whom I should find.
one at least willing to be mesmerised. On arriving
at the town of-- I was introduced, for the first
time, to a most agreeable English family, the friends
of whom the Countess had spoken ; and after some
conversation, in the course of which I ascertained
that the newly arrived visiters had but a very vague
notion of what they were to witness or to experience,
it was decided that I should mesmerise Miss --, a.
young lady, who might have seen some eighteen
summers, of a lively disposition, and not in the least
timid or nervous with regard to the experiment
about to be made. Lady- took down a kind of
proces verbal, during the proceedings of the evening,
and from this I extract the following details : -
"Mr. T- began to mesmerise Miss - a t
ten o'clock. Five minutes after her eyes closed, her
head followed the mesmeriser's hand wherever he
moved it. The mesmeriser then asked -
Are you asleep ?
Patient. -No; I am not asleep.
Mesmeriser. - Do you like being mesmeri~ed?
P.- No. (On repetition) Yes.
liO MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
The apparently mesmerised person here started
from her seat, opened her eyes, and said " I'm not in
the least mesmerised." All present thought she had
been feigning, and were oreparing to join in a laugh
against the mesmeriser, when, to the surprise of every
one, the patient fell back into her chair, her eyes at
the same tim~ closing with a sleepy expression. The
mesmeriser continued his passes. The head, as before,
followed the hand.
The mesmeriser then said-
Do you feel sleepy ?
P.- Yes.
M. - Why then do not you sleep ?
P.-1 do.
M. - Are you quite asleep ?
The mesmeriser here drank some wine, turning
his head away, and asked-
Do you taste any thing?
P.- No, but I smell wine. (The winewas, however,
too far off from the patient to have been distinguished
by her, in any way, under ordinary circumstances.)
M. - Do you know where my hand is?
P. - (her hand going directly to where the mes-
meriser's was) Yes.
M.- Can you ~me?
P.- Yes, but not very distinctly. (Her eyes ap-
peared to be closely shut.)
M.- (smelling to a nosegay which he took from
the table) What is this ?
P. - Flowers.
The mesmeriser now urged the patient to rise from
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. lU
her chair, but she expressed the strongest reluctarice
to move: at the same time she entreated the mesmer-
iser not to leave her. He, however, went to a little
distance, when MiBB - seemed to be forced to get
up and follow him. Supported by the mesmeriser,
abe walked half acr088 the room, but begged that she
JIUght be permitted to sit down again. The mesmer-
iser then placed her in a chair in the middle of the
apartment, and held up various objects (not belong-
ing to him) before her eyes. These she declared she
could not see, but whenever the mesmeriser held
before her any thing which belonged to himself; she
named the object directly. In this way she told
rightly when the rnesmeriser successively presented
his pocket-handkerchief, purse, and watch, also a
letter which he took from his pocket. On being
asked if she could distinguish the hour on the mes-
meriser's watch, she held it before her closed eyes,
and said, "It is a quarter to something." In effect it
was a quarter to eleven.
The mesmeriser now asked -
What am I tasting?
P.- (seeming to swallow something) Cold water.
(Right.)
M. -What am I eating?
P.-(seeming also to eat) Something like bread,
but sweeter. (It was cake.)
M.- Do you like it?
P.- Yes.
M.-What am I smelling?
P.- Eau de Cologne. (Right.)
112 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING•
Miss -'s father and mother now approached
her, and would have taken her hand, but she drew it
back with a shudder. To the mesmeriser's hand, on
the contrary, her own seemed always attracted, and
:rose up to meet it when held at a considerable dis-
tance. She distinguished between her father's and
the mesmeriser's handkerchiefs, by throwing the
former away, and retaining the latter in her posses-
sion. She also refused to part with a small piece of
coin on which the mesmeriser had breathed, and
which she held fast grasped in her hand.
The patient being now asked if she was tired, re-
plied that she did indeed feel much fatigued, and
seemed pleased to rest her head, leaning forward,
upon the mesmeriser's hand : at this moment she
seemed to sleep very deeply. Her countenance was
extremely pale. She seemed to hear no one speak
but the mesmeriser, but always answered his ques-
tions. On his asking if she felt well and comfortable,
she replied, "Oh, so comfortable!" nevertheless the
position of the patient, as she bent forward, with her
neck stretched out, was the most uneasy that could
well be imagined. '
M.-Would you not be more at your ease on the
sofa?
P.-Oh no! I am so well here! But you are not
going away?
The mesmeriser here rose and went to the sofa,
when Miss - seemed obliged to do so likewise.
M.-Are you not better here.
P.-Yes, so-sitting quiei
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 113
- The mesmeriser now asked his patient if she
would awake, but she said she would rather remain.
as she was, and begged of him to allow her to sleep
some time longer. At length, however, the mesmer-
iser said, " I must wake you," and passed his hands
rapidly over the patient's eyes, when they partially
opened, but she shut them again directly, excJaim-.
ing, " I had rather sleep." The mesmeriser however
continued to use the same motions as before, when
the patient qgain openedher eyes, and to the question ·
" Are you quite awake ?" answered in the affirma-.
tive. She t~n looked about with an air of surprise
and asked how she came to be sitting on the sofa? .
Then she held up her hand, which still remained,
closed upon the piece of money that the mesmeriser
had given her, and excJaimed, "What is this?'' When
it was explained to her that she had refused to part
with the coin, she seemed much surprised, and, when
informed of all that had passed, would scarcely
believe what we told her. The only circumstanc~
that she remembered of her sleepwaking was
having seen, at a moment when her eyes were partly
open, the upper part of Lady S--'s face. She
declared the only disagreeable thing in mesmerism
was the awaking, and compared it to what she should
imagine of the feelings of a drowned person in return-
ing to life."
Fearing lest my reader should now exclaim with
Macbeth-
" What I will the line stretch out to the crack
Of doom ? rn see no more I"-
114 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
I here close my detailed cases of mesmeric sleep-
waking, merely stating in conclusion that, in addition
to those already particularised, I have mesmerised,
between January 1837, and December 1838, nine
other individuals, seven of whom passed into the
perfect, and two into the imperfect crisis. These all
displayed phenomena coincident with the above,
though in some cases higher and more interesting in
their degree of development. _Of course as I pro-
ceeded in my career of investigation, my views
cleared, and my experiments became extended. It
was impossible to be so long conversant with one set
of facts without hazarding some conjectures as to their
efficient causes. I theorised, and endeavoured to·
prove or disprove the theories that I constructed by
bringing them to the test ofactual experiment. How
far I succeeded in this labour it is my intention to
relate hereafter. My intention, up to this point, has·
simply been to answer the objections raised against
mesmerism on account of its limited manifestation,
and variable as well as hypochondriac character. I
have wished to show that mesmeric sleepwaking is a
state, and a peculiar state, into which man gene-
rally has the capacity of passing; and surely I have·
said enough to remove from it the reproach of being
limited to a few nervous and fanciful persons, chiefly·
of the weaker sex. Out of three and twenty indi-
viduals in whom I induced sleepwaking, more or
less perfectly, six only were women, one only a de-
cided invalid. Let me, however, hasten to anticipate
an objection which may have been forming in my
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING~ 115
reader's mind. I ought, it may be urged, to have
noticed my cases of failure as well as of success.
This objection shall not long be valid - I have
already stated that a cousin of mine could not be in-
fluenced by me mesmerically. The trial was how-
ever scarcely serious or protracted enough to be
considered as decisive one way or the other. At
Cambridge two persons experienced no effects from
mesmerisation. The one was determined to resist
the influence, and to that end was solving an abstruse
mathematical problem all the time that I was mes-
merising him. The other disliked being mesmerised
and was afraid of it ; - and fear I have always found
to be in mesmerism a most disturbing force. Sub-
sequently among those whom I have essayed tomes-·
merise, I have met with but four persons who mani-·
fested either no symptoms of being affected, or those·
so slight and equivocal that they may not be relied
upon. Of these, two were ladies, who ought (accord-'
ing to the received notion of mesmerism) to ha,·e
been more easily influenced than persons of the other
sex, especially as they allowed me a fair and sufficient
trial, while, on the contrary, the two other individuals
alluded to jumped up from their seats after a mes-
merisation of a few minutes, one of them exclaiming,
" I feel nothing; and now believe in mesmerism.
less than ever !"
However, allowing these cases to pass as absolute
failures, it appears that in the space of less than two
years, the number of persons mesmerised by one
single individual was in the proportion of twenty-
116 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
three to eight. Striking off even the imperfect cases,
there will remain fourteen persons out of thirty-one
in whom sleepwaking was fully developed with all its
attendant train of characteristic phenomena,- these
too, not being selected by myself as likely subjects
for mesmerism, but offering themselves accidentally:
and surely they who consider how difficult it is, first,
to prevail on persons to submit to mesmerisation at
all, and, secondly, to secure an adequate trial, will
wonder that the cases are so many rather than so
few. The great argument, therefore, against mesmer-.
ism, ofinfrequency and irregularity,falls to the ground.
Nor can any one rationally demand a universality of
mesmeric sleepwaking, before he will admit that it is
one of the states into which man generally has the
capacity of passing. The exceptions forbid not the
existence of the rule. All persons are not, it is to be
hoped, mad; yet we pronounce madness to be an
affliction to which any man whatever is liable.
" Perhaps some doctor of tremendous paunch,
Burly and big - a black abyss of drink," -
may see all his fellow topers under the table, himself
sober the while ; yet this by no means affects the pro-
position, that drunkenness is a state into which man
generally has the capacity of passing.
But there yet remain two important questions to
ask and to anawer, respecting the phenomena which
I have detailed.
1st. Have I been deceived?
2d. Have I been mistaken?
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 117
The first implies that my ·patients feigned; the
second that my senses were incompetent to discern
the objects presented to them.
The wilful and determined opposers of mesmerism
(carefully to be separated from the class of honest ob-
jectors) are very ready, in judging of mesmeric state-
ments, to have recourse to one or both ofthe above sup-
positions, not perceiving that, in so doing, they decide
abstract questions which can never be limited to the
single subject of mesmerism, but which bear largely
upon the whole conduct of life. In their blind zeal
to overthrow the particular object of their dislike,
they would strike away universally the two great
props of humanity, namely, -belief in our neigh-
bour, whereby we greatly regulate the moral part of
our nature; and confidence in the sufficiency of our
senses, whereby alone we judge of any thing external
to ourselves. Allow that a large proportion of
persons deceive, (as we must do, if we suppose all
whom we mesmerise to be feigning,) and whatbecomes
of our faith in the founders of our holy religion, even
in the credibility of human testimony on which we
ground our present actions and our future hopes?
Again, grant that we are deluded by our senses to
the extent we must be when we are mistaken in a
multitude of cases, and what remains in the univers~
but dreams and uncertainties? The splendid la-
bours of Galileo and Herschel, based as they are on
the competency of the human senses, are but as ~
-vapour, and the discoveries of Newton, sublime
·us MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
·as they appear, must be as illusory as the organs
through which they were transmitted.
But it may be replied, - We are not to distrust
our senses generally, but only in those particular
cases, when they appear to bear testimony incom-
patible with former experience. This manner of
viewing the question is plausible, and has accordingly
been much adopted by those who would make short
work of mesmerism and banish it at a blow. On
these grounds, some have even gone so far as to say
- Should we even see the imputed wonders of mes-
merism with our own eyes, we should not credit our
senses. Whether such determination be as wise as it
is magnanimous, remains to be proved. There is
unfortunately just that mixture of good in it which
makes evil dangerous. Every reasonable man will
grant that we should examine with becoming caution
any appearances that may seem to contradict our
former experience; -but to reject, when we should
only distrust -to be positive when we ought to be
merely sceptical- is certainly not the part of reason.
The mistake seems to have originated, as so many
other misconceptions on important points have done,
not so much in a false idea as in the misplacement
of a truth- in taking that as a basis which is only
superstructure. The maxim, "Doubt all that does
not harmonise: with previous knowledge," is just in
itself, but, iD this case, becomes, by its position, erro-
.neous. It is excellentas a monitor, but insufficient as a
·guide -an admirable servant, but a miserable
master. Were the ultra ante-mesmerists consistent,
·MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 119
and should they carry through their principle, what
·groundwork would they have for any belief what·
soever ? I may be answered, " Experience I " Yes;
but should it be forgotten that experience itself is the
fruit of the senses? What becomes of the product,
if the parent itself be found so very fallible? If we
grant that we are the fools of our senses in one im-
portant branch of their observation, why not in all?
The absurdity is this: we are to trust our general
experience, but a1low that it may err in the particular,
as if the general were not composed ofthe particular !
It is as if we were to talk of a good form of govern-
ment under which every individual was grossly
wronged. Now, trust in the testimony of our senses,
or rather of our consciousness, is not only the ground-
work of all we believe, but is the cement of each fact
that makes up the whole fabric of our certain know-
ledge. Of the external world we can ascertain no-
thing but through the faculties by which we observe
it ; and of the external world we can believe nothing
but by our trust in the accuracy of those faculties-
ourorganof information is either competent or incom-
petent. If it be competent, there is no reason why
we should distrust it,~cmteris parihus, in one case more
than another. If incompetent, there is no reason why
we should trust it, cmteris paribus, at one time more
than another. There is no alternative: either we
must place confidence in our sole medium of know,.
ledge, or take refuge in universal scepticism. Grant
thatevery anomalypresented to us be a reason for tem-
porary doubt; still, when it is often enough presented
120 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
to us, our doubts as to its existence cannot but cease.
Allow that to accept facts on insufficient grounds
is folly; still, to reject them when properly demon·
strated is equally absurd: nay, the greater danger
waits upon unfounded hesitation. A too great rash-
ness may correct itself; but distrust in the evidence
ofour senses is a radical defect,which, as it annihilates
all things, so does it preclude the possibility of a re-
medy ;-not that any wise man would attempt to deny
that, though our senses are competent, we ourselves
may be in fault ; and that, through a careless use of
our means of knowledge, we may sometimes err in
our estimate of things. But though this may happen
once or twice, the most slovenly observer can scarcely
be deceived as to the actuality of a series of facts
which occur before him again and again. Moreover,
in witnessing aught so remarkable as an exhibition of
the mesmeric phenomena, the gazer's mind is in the
attitude of roused attention; a state the most oppo-
site imaginable to the careless mood, in which we are
apt to be deceived. They who would represent
mesmerism as the cheat of our own eyes should re-
member, that the worst mistakes of our senses are
'but transient, even momentary, and that their very
errors tend to correct themselves. For instance,
·when alone in my apartment at the witching time of
night, I may suppose I see a face gazing at me from
out the window-curtains. .But my immediate im-
.pulse is to look again, and to bend a stricter scrutiny
upon the delusive appearance, which I discover
forthwith to have arisen from certain fortuitous
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKlNO, ·121
arrangements of light and shade. It might, indeed,
have happened that, overcome by sudden panic, I
.should have fled from the room, while still undet a
delusion, and have proclaimed ever after I had seen
a ghost. But such conduct is, happily, the exception
to, and not the rule of, that of mankind in general.
Besides, there is plainly no analogy whatever be-
tween a momentary and fear-engendered delusion
ofthis sort, and a persistence in error, with regard to
objects which we behold very frequently and in the
calmest frame of mind. Other apparent inaccuracies
there are in the action of the senses : but these are
well known, and deceive no one ; and exceptions,
when known and invariable, become themselves a
part of the original law from which tl1ey seem to
deviate. Allowances are made for them ; and on
every subjectto which they relate our judgments are
quite as exactas if no such limitations were enjoined.
Thus, when we apparently see a flash of light from
bringing into contact zinc and silver in our mouths,
we soon come to know that there is no such thing;
and when a juggler by the rapidity of his movements
bewilders our apprehensions, weadmire his dexterity,
but are not deceived by it in the least.
But the phenomena of mesmerism ~orne not within
the category of these transient illusions. The pa-
tients who exhibit them are not jugglers, but per-
.sons of good faith, unpractised in sleight of hand or
dexterity of any kind. Even supposing them to be
·adepts in deception, they manifestly cannot play a
part of which they know nothing; and I have shown
G
.
122 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
that those whom I have mesmerised were.generally
unaware what· was to be felt or done in mesmeric
sleepwaking. Am I to entertain a thought so mon-
strous, as that a number of respectable individuals
whom I casually met at different times and in dif-
ferent places were united in a conspiracy to deceive
me ? I cannot think so, even if I would. He, who
observes a state frequently, attains at length to a cer-
tain experience in its minute symptoms, which, like
lthuriel's spear, detects falsehood at once. Now, in
mesmerism, there are a thousand such trifling
but decisive tests of authenticity. To instance only
clockwork lowering of the eyelids and the remark-
able manner oftheir closing- it maybe affirmed that
these phenomena are not imitable ; for they are out
of the reach of human muscular power, as long as it
remains under its usual conditions.
Perceiving, then, that imposition on the part of my
mesmeric patients is not only in the highest degree
unlikely, but actually impossible, and confiding in
the testimony of my own senses, I am assured that I
have witnessed a state of man which is peculiar and
distinctive, lst, as induced; 2dly, as possessing its
own characteristics when induced.
Nor are these conclusions at all invalidated by the
common argument so often adduced by the ante-mes-
merists, that the whole of what are called the mes-
meric conditions are brought about through the
agency of the patient•s imagination, and are therefore
self-induced. This is plainly quibbling; for, granting
that imagination be the proximate cause, or imme-
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 123
diate antecedent of mesmeric sleepwaking, still we
require a inoving cause, or a prior antecedent whereby
the imagination itselfis set in action ; and this moving
cause is indisputably external, and to be referred to
certain looks or gestures or mere proximity of the
mesmeriser. Equally futile is the attempt to nullify
the fact of external influence by assertions " that
some individuals on whom the effects of mesmerism
have repeatedly been produced may exhibit like
effects, without being mesmerised afresh, provided
they are led to believe that the process is carried on
as usual and that they are under its influence.,. This
proves nothing more than the usual law of our nature,
whereby trains of sensations grow into habits, and ·
occur in certain series when the idea that is linked
with them can be raised in the mind. But then
they must always owe their origin in the first place to
some exciting cause, which remains the true basis of
their production ; since but for it they would never
have existed. Thus the peculiar sensation called
tickling was in the first instance made known to us
through the contactofsomething external (it being a
curious fact that no one can tickle himselfso as to fall
into that convulsive laughter which characterises the
sensation); yet if any one presents his finger to sus-
ceptible personr:;, as if with an intention of tickling,
the feeling will be excited, and those on whom the
experiment is tried will shrink and laugh, as if ac-
tually touched by the finger. The idea, then, of the
primary cause of a sensation confessedly precedes the
sensation itself; and, when mesmeric patients obey
G 2
124 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
this law, they appear to me, instt>ad of disproving the
influence which primariJy affected them, to establish
it altogether. In supposing the actions of the mes-
meriser to be present, the patient owns them as the
primary cause of his sensations; and the reproduction
of the accompanying phenomena, under certain con-
victions, is a perpetual recognition of that force
which first set the hidden springs in play.
· In mesmerism, then, the influence of man is
always the proper antecedent; -the state of mesmeric
sleepwaking the pl'Oper consequent. Will any one
declare that external causes have nothing whatever to
do with the production of the mesmeric state? Yet
this he must affirm before he can consistently class
mesmerism. with self-originating states of mind or
-body.
In vain, therefore, is the mesmeric sleep likened
·to, or identified with, natural sleepwaking, hypo-
chondriasis, catalepsy, &c., for it differs in one most
important particular, from any of these states:
it is consequent upon external influence; it is
induced, and that (whatever intermediate mac:llinery
may be set in motion) by the agency of man. We
should consider also how utterly distinct from con-
stitutional disorders like the above is mesmeric sleep-
wakhlg, which may be. produced, almost at will~ in all
kinds of temperamt-nts. Catalepsy, which it in some
respects resembles, is a disease; but the mesmeric
sleep is not a disease. Surely every event has its
adequate cause, and, if mesmeric patients are not
s!eepwakers either from malady or by constitution,
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 125
bow is it that they become so? It has been shown
that not only the healthy and the strong are suscep-
tible of the mesmeric slumber, but individuals ad-.,J.~
vanced in life, who cannot be s~pposed to have that
restlessness of the blood which sometimes afflicts
younger persons with·rsteepwaking. How then can
we confound mesmeric with natural sleepwaking?
The causes which are explanatory of the one have
nothing in common with the other. Besides, the
sleepwaking we are considering is gm.t'ikl and
wielded by external agency; - and this alone,
exclusive of other considerations which we have be-
fore suggested, is a sufficient answer to those who
allege that the so-called mesmeric state can be pro-
duced apart from the mesmeriser ; since, when
genuine, it presupposes. the exhibition of phenomena
that spring from the mesmeriser's actual presence.
Anoth~r distinguishing feature of ~smeric sleep-
waking which stamps it with an individuality the
most remarkable, is (as far as my own observation of
the state extends) the extreme clearness and truth of
its .perceptions. Mesmeric patients act upon real
impressions, and in perfect conformity with ·external
circumstances. They retain all their sense of locality,
all their cognition of time, and their knowledge of
the persons who may be around them. Now natural
sleepwakers are generally acting under some delu-
sion. They will get astride upon a chair and fancy
that they have mounted a horse, and, advancing still
further into hallucination,' will whip and spur their
imaginary steed, supposing that they are performing
G8
126 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKlNG.
twelve miles within the hour. Like Lady Macbeth;
they will see what is not, and, their waking thoughts
continuing to influence their slumbers, they will
suppose themselves still engaged in deeds which
have been long numbered with the shadows past. I
do not say that this is always the case ; -but facts will
bear me out in the assertion that auto-sleepwaking
can never be characterised as an unillusive state.
Again, mesmeric sleepwaking, in some respects,
resembles the exaltation produced by opium; but we
have only to read the celebrated Confessions of an
Opium-eater to be convinced that the votaries of that
drug live in a fantastic and ideal world.
With natural sleep mesmeric sleepwaking can least
of all be identified. That it is as different from this
as natural sleep itself is from waking m11y be judged
from the following circumstance. E. A., returning
with me and two other persons from an evening
party, fell asleep in the carriage. I made the mes-
meric passes over him without contact and in
silence. After about the usual time required for
mesmerising him when awake, he began to stir and
testify uneasiness. Soon after, he spoke and up-
braided me for taking him at a disadvantage and for
changing his natural sleep into the mesmeric. There
was as marked a change in his condition as if he had
actually shaken off slumber. A lady•, whose
daughter was sometimes singularly affected by a
• See note page 152. (relating to Madlle. Estelle l'H.) hi
Book II.
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 127
species of auto-sleepwaking, presenting many of the
features of the mesmeric state, told me that the
patient would occasionally go to bed, while in what
she called the "crise," fall into a natural sleep, rest
well, yet rise the next morning, still, as it were, self:.
mesmerised. Chardel also, a French writer on
mesmerism, gives an interesting account of two
sisters whom he mesmerised, as a physician, with the
hope of checking a tendency to consumption which
they had both evinced. One evening, being in
sleepwaking, they, as if prompted by a natural
instinct, entreated their mesmeriser to leave them in
that state, only so far demesmerising them as to en-
able them to open their eyes and to be committed to
their own self-guidance. Day after day they renewed
their petition- for day after day they felt health re-
turning_ under the mesmeric influence. In other
respects they pursued their usual habits, and their
mesmeric existence had its alternate periods of sleep
and ofwaking, as regular as those of the natural life.
At the end of three months, their cure appearing to
be complete, M. Chardel conducted the sisters, ac·
companied by their mother, to a beautiful spot in the
country, where he restored them to a knowledge of
themselves. He describes, in lively terms, their sur-
prise and joy on returning·to consciousn~ss. It was
winter when they entered the mesmeric state- it was
now spring. The ground was then covered with
snow, but now with flowers. They were then looking
forward to an early grave; but now the feeling of
re~ewed health tinged every thing with. hope and
o4
l2S MESMERIC SLEEPWAKiNG.
life - almost doubting if they did not dream, they
threw themselves into their mother's arms, gathered
flowers, and smelt to them, and endeavoured, by th~
exercise oftheir senses, to convince themselves" that it
was all a blessed reality. Not a circumstance ofthe
three past months survived in their memory.
And this leads me further to remark that the abso•
lute forgetfulness which severs the mysterious state of
mesmeric sleepwaking from the cognisance ofordinary
consciousness sets a peculiar seal upon this very re-
markable condition of man. The drunkard has his
glimpses of remembrance ; the opium-eater can re-
count his visions; the natural sleepwaker may
sometimes recall the dreams that influenced his sleep-
ing actions : but he who emerges from the mesmeric
state, when it is true and perfect, has shaken hands
with memory on the threshold. It is true that
reverie shares this complete oblivion; but then
reverie is a state of illusion and of incoherent think-
ing. Darwin, who has treated·of it at length, charac-
terises it as such, and mentions a young lady (in
whom reverie had become a malady), who, when
under a paroxysm of this complaint, would converse
with imaginary visitors. On one occasion, while thus
afllicted, she took off her shoe, looked at it, and said
" A little longer and a little wider, even this would
make me a coffin !"
With reverie, then, mesmeric sleepwaking cannot
be identified, and in every point of view we seem
justified in considering it as a state apart from all
others- a distinct and peculiar condition of man,
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 129
I do not, however, forget that these diO'duetions are
founded on the proceeds of my individual observ-
ation, nor that it is essential that the experiments
which are their base should be capable of repetition,
in order that each man may, if he so pleases, bring my
accuracy to the test of his own senses. Convinced
that personal observation, if sincere, will establish all
that I have advanced, I urge every one te inquire
and to judge for himsel£ .And this peculiar advantage
attends upon mesmerism, - the proof of it, by ex-
periment, is in the hands of all. The mesmeriser
makes no mysterious monopoly of his art, but
contends that the power to mesmerise and the
capacity of being mesmerised, however modified by
circumstances, may be developed in every human
being. Moreover, for that repetition of the roes.
merle phenomena which .is necessary to produce a
conviction of their reality there is not needed, as in
chemistry or optics, an assemblage of substances, or a
complicated apparatus which few can-command. The
follies of the baquet and of the magnetic rod have
perished with Mesmer, and at the present day the
mesmeriser's eye and hand are his sole "conjuration
and mighty magic.''
But here it may be asked, " Why then, if the proof
be so easy, is the world so hard of belief?" The
answer is obvious : because there are few who will
take the trouble to prove facts, which, from causes
already numbered, men had rather not believe. Be-
sides, though I do not hesitate to say that all who
are really desirous to obtain proofs of mesmerism
G5
130 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
may, with comparative· ease, obtain them; still, in
searching for these, a virtue is required, which is by no
means a general attribute of mankind; namely, per-
severance. Nothing, indeed, is easier than for a man,
who dislikes being troubled with the new ideas which
the subject of mesmerism introduces into the mind,
to make a hasty trial of the alleged power, and, failing
to elicit or to experience any of its .effects, to say,
" I have proved it, and found it nought." But he
who adopts this facile mode of dismissing a trouble-
some question can scarcely be called an inquirer, nor
can his verdict have much weight. To examine a
phenomenon is not sufficient: we must examine it
also adequately; and if it be recognised as a prin-
ciple that a fact is not to be admitted till after a re-
peated scrutiny, neither, in conimon justice, should
it be rejected till after the same deliberate investiga-
tion. But whether the difficulties attendant upon a
verification of those phenomena which I have wit-
nessed and carefully noted have been under or over-
stated, I must, as a principle, inculcate a dependence
upon the observer who makes a subject his study,
rather than on the captious opponent or indifferent
idler who approaches the same theme with a want of
· temper or a want of patience, which equally dis-
qualify a man from judging rightly. Putting myself
wholly out ofthe question, and speaking as if I were
only justifying, and claiming belieffor, the first .dis-
coverer of mesmerism, I cannot but assert that there
was a much greater chance of his being in the right
than all who have subsequently proclaimed him in
the wrong. In every case, the boldness and acuw-
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 131
ness which lead a ll]an to take new views ofa subject
and to combat ancient prejudices are in his favour.
'fhere is an innate consciousness attendant upon
correct observation which upholds him and encou-'
rages him to war with the world. The sudden light
that has struck him is like a light from heaven and
brings conviction to his breast. His eyes are not de-
luded, but sharpened by desire. No other person
can have that intimate zeal- that interest in the
inquiry which urges him onward. His all is at
stake, and consequently no one is so strict with him
as he is with himself. Who can compare the cursory
and partial views of the great body of mankind with
his? We may call him a visionary or a heretic, but,
remembering the slow but certain triumph of Harvey
and Galileo, we should be cautious how we brand
him with epithets which may only recoil upon our-
selves. How abundant are the proofs that all which
is most opposed to the passions and prejudices of men
is most likely to be true !
Again, in the history of all observational science
there are precedents to show that the accuracy of the
most genuine experiments has been called in question
by those who were unable to repeat them. Of this
the reception which the Newtonian doctrine of 1ight
and colours met with from the world is a familiar in-
stance, the more to be noted on account of Newton's
reputation as a strict investigator. Abjuring all hy-
pothesis and cautiously pursuing the method of in-
duction which Bacon had substituted for the worth-
less dogmatism of the schools, the great philosopher
G 6
132 MESM:£RIC SLEEPWAitiNO,
one might have thought, rould have had nothing to
apprehend from the petulance of opposition. His
theorems were facts which every man might verify to
himself by the aid of his own senses. And yet in
many cases Newton appealed in vain to the common
testimony of our common nature. The correctness
of his· experiments was doubted by many scientific
men both of his and other countries; a host of
enemies impeached the soundness of his conclusions;
and even in a later age, after the general voice had
ratified his theory, the celebrated Goethe, quittinghis
domain of high imagination, undertook to expose
its errors in a work which will ever remain a monu-
ment of perverted genius.
A certain dependence, then, upon the first observer
of new phenomena is inculcated both by reason and
by experience, and appears to be requisite, when we·
would ourselves examine the phenomena, to guard us
from impatience and to support us through deceptive
appearances.
But, I would ask, is this the course pursued by the
opponents of mesmerism ? Certainly not: they
bring forward the defective trial of an experiment as
a complete refutation of the experiment itself, and
select, with curious partiality, the one failure amongst
innumerable instances of success, as an illustration of
the nullity .of mesmerism. Yet what would be said of
a man who, going to see some well-known chemical
or other effect exhibited, and finding it fail through
unforeseen circumstances, were to return home con-
vinced that no such thing had ever existed ? What,
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING, 133
again, would be thought of this man's state of intellect,
were he to write a book to prove that certain phe-
nomena, because he had not witnessed them, had
never been seen by thousands who could support
them by their testimony? Yet, cannot even such an
original sceptic as this be considered a whit more ab-
surd than they who fondly fancy that by exparte
statements and scattered histories of failure, collected
from men as prejudiced as themselves, they can put
down mesmerism ? Do they forget that all which
appears to be a mass of negative evidence is but air
in the scale when weighed against one positive fact?
" It is a very obvious principle," says Chalmers,
"although often forgotten in the pride of prejudice,
and of controversy, that what has been seen by one
pair of human eyes is of force to countervail all that
has been reasoned· or guessed at by a thousand human
understandings."
~t, then, body after body of learned men deny the
phenomena of mesmerism and iogically disprove their
existence, an appeal may ever and at any moment be
made to the "proofby experiment;" and, even should
experiment itself fail a thousand times, the success
of the thousandth and first trial would justify further
examination. Till the authority of observation can
be wholly set aside, the subject of our inquiry can
never be said to have undergone its final ostracism.
·..
]34 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING•
• SECT. III.
SHOWING CERTAIN OF THE PHYSICAL AND METAPHY-
SICAL CONDITIONS OF MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
HITHERTO 1 have exhibited to my reader a succes-
sion of patients, the greater part of whom I had
po opportunity of mesmerising again. I may have
been considered as trying an experiment upon a
great scale, as to the mesmerisibility of mankind in
general. Such a mode of proceeding has this advan-
tage:-persons, who have been frequently mesmerised
may be charged ~ith having been well practised in
their parts; but they who exhibit for the first time
the mesmeric characteristics, without even having
heard them previously described, stand aloof from
all suspicions of the kind. There is neither habit
nor imitation nor duplicity to · be charged upon
them ; and therefore the phenomena they display
may be regarded as eminently genuine. But, on the
other hand, it should be considered that such pheno-
mena, if more to be r.elied on, are also humbler in
degree than those belonging to a more advanced stage
of sleepwaking: and this, I think, may be owned
without prejudice to mesmerism; for, as I have
before observed, we cannot liken it to those purely
mechanical agencies which afrect persons as forcibly
MESMERIC SLEEPWAltiNG. 135
the first time as in all succeeding trials. Many of
the phenomena are of such a kind as to be obviously
capable of developement ; and in demanding a cer~
tain license on this account we ask no more for mes-
merism than is conceded in every case where man's
intellect is concerned. Let it be always kept in mind
that mesmeric sleepwaking is more than an exhibition
of involuntary motions or mere physical changes.
It is a state which appears to possess its own laws of
perception imd of action ; and, in this point of view,
a mesmerised person may be considered as learning
a new language in which he cannot express himself
with eloquence or with ease until he has mastered
its idioms and possessed himself of its copiousness.
When we reflect upon the difficulty we all find in
acting in any unusual way, we cannot but perceive
that time must be requisite to the developement of a
mode of existence which seems to be abnormal in the
highest degree.
It is evident, then, that, in order to study the pheno-
mena of mesmeric sleepwaking in their maturer de-
velopement, it was necessary for me to mesmerise the
same person frequently. This I have done in more
than one instance, and the following has been the
result of my observations: -
In accordance with what has been suggested above,
it is to be remarked that each successive time a per-
son is mesmerised he becomes more easy of mesmer-
isation, and more at home in his new capacities.
Hence without effort he exhibits many phenomena
which may be called spontaneous, in distinction to
'
136 MESMERIC SJ.EEPWAKING.
those which result more clearly from the peculiar
relationship in which the mesmeriser, pro tempore,
stands to his patient. The two classes of phenomena
should be accuratelydistinguished, and their difference
borne in mind. At present, I have chiefly given in-
stances of the latter ; as was natural, considering that
my earlier patients were more dependent upon myself
than those whom I subsequently treated, and tha:t in
consequence my attention was chiefly turned to the
mesmeric processes necessary for producing or direct-
ing their sleepwaking. It was not till later, and till
the task of guiding my patients could be, in a degree,
remitted, ·that I was able to add some remarks,
(which indeed appear essential to complete our view
of mesmerism as a separate condition of man),
upon the state of the bodily organs, and of the mental
faculties, in the mesmeric sleepwaker. Beginning
with the former, and dividing the corporeal functions
into the sensitive, the vital, and the motory, we first
inquire-What is the state of the actual apparatus of
the senses during mesmeric sleepwaking ? And first,
Oftke Eye.
This is a part of the body which is earliest affected
under that which we may call, without theory, the
human influence. One of the first tokens a person
gives of passing into mesmeric sleepwaking is a look
of stupor in the eyes, and an apparent lack of power
in the eyelids to perform the usual office of nictation.
The upper lid, as I have before observed, falls very
gradually over the organ of sight, and spmetimes,
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKINO~ 137
teasing to move altogether, ·remains suspended, as it
were, in such a manner as that the eye appears to be
three quarters closed. When this continues to be
the case, the patient rarely falls into sleepwaking, the
exceptions occurring commonly amongst those who-
sleep with their eyes partly open and who keep them
in the same state during the whole period of their
sleepwaking. The patient, when interrogated as to-
his sensations, will declare, (retaining his conscious-
ness at the time) that he feels prickings in his eyeJids,
and, as far as outward actions can be proof, the same
uneasy sensation remains or recurs at intervals during
the sleepwaking. For alJ the sleepwakers that I have
seen rub their eyes frequently, so that any one
would think they were about to awake; but their
slumber remains undisturbed, and the action alluded
to seems simply automatic, as when in natural sleep
we brush off a fly from the face without being con-
scious of the movement. I once asked a sleepwaker
why she rubbed her eyes, and she replied," Did I do
so? I suppose it is a trick I have" (" je suppose que
c'est une habitude"). I have before remarked that
many persons in semi-sleepwaking retain their con-
sciousness, yet are wholly unable to open their eyes.
A scientific man, accustomed to investigation, being
in this state, assured me that he experienced a gra-
dual paralysis of the nerves connected with the eye,
and with the motive powers of the eye-lid, and that
.at length his utmost efforts of volition were insuf-
ficient to make the orbicular muscles obey him as
usual. Sleepwaking being complete, the eye is gen~
138 MESMERIC . SLEEPWAKIN:G•
raJly first closed, yet not exactly as in sleep. The
following differences may be noted: ......,}st. The place
where the eye-lids meet, in a natural way, is much
below the level of the transverse diameter of the eye ;
but I have observed that in sleepwaking the line of
contact is often thrown so high above its ordinary
situation as to coincide with what Haller calls the
~equator oculi. 2dly. There is a compressed look
about the lids, as if they were rather held down by
force than quietly and naturally closed. 3dly. The
ball of the eye is in frequent and violent motion,
which, in those who have prominent eyes especially,
can be plainly discerned beneath the skin of the eye-
lids. All these circumstances, it should be remem-
bered, are actually distinctive of the mesmeric sleep;
for many persons who form a wrong notion concern-
ing it suppose, before assisting (as the French say)
at a seance of mesmerism, that they are to see a some-
thingpreciselylike natural slumber, and exclaim, when
the reality is before them, "This must be all a trick,"
only because their erroneous ideas are contradicted.
With regard to the internal state of the eye during
mesmeric sleepwaking, it is, of course, difficult to
judge. No force, short of that which would serjously
injure the sleepwaker, can wrench asunder the eye-
lids. I have tried this and made others try it, and
the resistance to such efforts was so great that, to be
appreciated, it must be felt. But that which violence
cannot accomplish, the command of the mesmeriser
can ordinarily effect, though that he should use thi!!
power with great discretion the following occurrence
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 139·
will show. I once asked Mademoiselle Anna M----,·
(whom, after returning to the Continent in 1837, I
frequently mesmerised) whether she could open her
eyes, which, at the time, were fast shut in mesmeric
sleepwaking. Her reply was, " I can do it, if you
insist that I should ; but I warn you that you will see
something very disagreeable, and, besides, the effort
will do me no good." Notwithstanding this warning,
I commanded my me$1Tlerisee to open her eyes. She
did so. It was really a fearful sight. The eye-
balls were turned up, and converged towards the
nose, the white of the eye was bloodshot, and the·
whole organ quivering and convulsed. As may be
supposed, I did.not long keep my sleepwaker- in what
appeared to me a painful state, and, at my command,
she again closed her eyes. On awaking her shortly
after, what was my alarm to hear her declare that
she saw nothing whatever ! She. appeared to be
much agitated, and my thoughts may be conceived,
as long as I had the least reason to fear that my rash
experiment might end in her being blind for life.
The exigence of the moment, however, roused me to
exertion, and the idea occurred to me that the best
thing I could do was to re-mesmerise my patient as
quickly as possible. This I did. As soon as she
had passed into the mesmeric state, she became calm
and begged me not to be alarmed, as the blindness
1 she had just experienced was but the momentary
effect of the fatigue to her eyes, caused by the effort
to open them. She then requested me to breath~
on her eyes, and to lay my hand on them, after which,.
140 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
abe assured me that I might awake ,her without any
further apprehension. In effect, the. transient but
fearful attack of blindness was passed away. After
this, as may be supposed, I was not very ready to bid
my sleepwakers open their eyes. I have also found
in them alJ, when consulted on the subject, an ex-
CI'eme disJike to the idea. I have, however, reason
~think that the position of the eyeball is, in most
sleepwakers, thesame as it appeared in Mademoiselle
M-. I once asked one of my patients, whiJe in
the waking .gtate, if he knew in what position the eyes
were during sleepwaking, and be replied, " I do not
at aU know, but I should suppose just the same as
now. Why should there be any difference ?" Having
thus ascertained that he had no preconceptions on the
subject, I again asked him, when in sleepwaking,
" In what position are your eyes ?" " I will show
you," lie replied; and without a moment's hesitation,
seized a pencil and a paper that lay on the table,
and drew an· eye, with the baH turned up to one
corner, and only partly seen. [I should observe
that this sleepwaker Qad an extraordinary power
of vision in the mesmeric state, to which I shall
hereafter have occasion more particularly to al-
lude.]
Another time, I had an opportunity ofmaking fur-
1her remarks on the state of the eye, under mesmeric
sleepwaking, through the kindness ofMr. Berckmans,
architect of the province of Antwerp- a man whom
I have pleasure in naming, as one who utilises mes-
wnerism by employing it (and.guccessfully) in the relief
HESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 141
of maladies. This gentleman permitted me to see one
of his sleepwakers, who, f~om a natural predisposi-
·tion, often kept her eyes open during sleepwaking.
During twenty minutes or half an hour that I saw
her thus, I could most truly affirm that, though her
eyes were open, their " sense was shut." A dull
film seemed to overspread them; the pupil was di-
lated, and did not contract with light. A candle
brought near, or a hand waved suddenly and quickly
before the patient's eyes, produced no perceptible
alteration or motion either in the lid or in the
.apparatus of vision.
Altogether; there seems to be every reason to con-
clude that the eye in mesmeric sleepwaking is either
so disordered or so paralysed in its functions as to
cease to convey impressions to the mind - in any
mode at least that can be termed ordinary.
Secondly. I now proceed to show that a similar
derangement -of function seems to take place as
rega_rds the sense of hearing.
In proportion as persons sink deeper into mesmeric
sleepwaking, their external senses seem blunted, one
by one, and so far there is certainly a relation be-
tween the mesmeric and the natural sleep.
The eye~ as we have seen, yields fh·st to the-slum-
brous influence. Long after this m·gan has ceased
to act, the hearing retains all its acuteness, and the
sleepwaker is able to indicate what sounds are going
on around ; but at length the "porches of the ear "
.are closed as well as the " curtain of the eye,'' and
. the patient, though still alive to feeling, is dead to
142 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
every sound save that of the mesmeriser's voice. I
have proved this times innum~rable- so frequently,
indeed, that it is better to give the general results of
the experiments I have ·witnessed than to state one
in particular. Often have the members of my family,
or visitors, who perhaps were but little inclined to
believe in mesmerism, tried to awaken Mademoiselle
M-- or to startle her by sudden noises. Logs
of wood have been dashed against the floor; plates
have been suddenly broken; her name has been
shouted out, close to her ear ; in vain. Other persons
present have shown .that they were startled - but
not the sleepwaker. Once or twice, indeed, on such
occasions, when asked if she heard any thing, she has
replied, " No, I heard nothing ; but I thought, just
now, something pushed against my chair;" a mode
of expression which deserves to be remarked, as·
analogous to that used by deaf persons to describe the
sensations given them by the concussion of the air
produced by great sounds. I once met a young
lady, perfectly deaf and dumb from her birth, who
was, in this way, remarkably sensitive to the undula-
tions of the air. I have frequently seen her start
when a door was opened, or when any thing fell sud-
denly, and the account she gave to me of this, in
writing, was that she fejt as if some one had pushed
against her. So susceptible indeed was she to aerial
vibrations that she could distinguish a certain mea-
sure and rhythm in harmonious chords which gave
her a marked degree of pleasure. She would take a
. stick, and, putting one end of it in her mouth, would
MESMERIC. SLEEPWAKlNG. 148
place the other in contact with the piano, while any
one was playing on it. Discords struck upon the
instrument made her shudder, and convulsed her
features with. all that. pantomimic exaggeration so
usual in the dumb ; but soft and pleasing sequences
of sound soothed her and brought a satisfied smile
over her countenance.
It has appeared to me that the mesmerised possess
similar perceptions of sound apart from the natural
sense of hearing, and that, like the young lady above
alluded to, they require certain conductors, in order
to make them apprehend a regular series of aerial
.vibrations. Be it however remarked that the degree
of this isolation from sounds, considered as sounds, ·
depends on the intensity of the mesmeric sleep ; for
it 'Should ever be kept in mind that mesmeric sleep-
waking has its shades and graduations, varying from
.consciousness fully retained to its faintest twilight or
utter extinction. A due recollection of this truth
will prevent many mistakes and unfounded expecta-
tions relative to our subject.
In the case of Mademoiselle M--, as being a
perfect sleepwaker, the insulation from all sounds
to which I did not serve as conductor was complete•
.This phenomenon, as indeed most of the others I
have mentioned, was rather accidentally offered to
my remark than looked for or expected. A lady,
present when Mademoiselle M--had been mes-
merised by me, went up to the sleepwaker and spoke
to her for some time. She however did not seem
to hear what was said, and indeed heW her head
144 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
down with every sign ofinattention. By mere accident
the speaker touched me. .Then suddenly the sleep-·
·waker lifted up her head, and assumed the expression
of listening. A slight movement drew me away from
contact with the speaker, when the sleepwaker said--
"I hear nothing now." She. then herself took. the
lady's hand, placed it in mine, and laid her own upon
both so as to be iri contact with each, saying, "Now
I hear well." We subsequently found that it was
under such an arrangement as this that the s1eep-
waker could best hear any one speak, though did a
person talking merely touch me she manifested some
perceptions of sound. On one occasion, when a
musician was singing and playing during her mes-
meric trance, she, seeing him at the piano, expressed
a desire to hear the performance, and, to accomplish
this, requested me to Jay one hand on the musician's
shoulder, while she herself laid a hand upon mine.
So placed, she heard the singing we11, but the piano
indistinctly; ·
Others of my sleepwakers manifested simi1ar phe-
nomena, some even the first time of being mesmer-
ised, when they knew nothing of the characteristics
of mesmeric s1eepwaking. The scientific person to
whom I have once before a11uded, and whose testi-
mony is valuable, inasmuch as his habits of mind Jed
him ever to separate i11usion from truth, assured me,
when in the mesmeric state, that he could hear no
sound whatever except my voice. I made another
person speak 'who was in the room on that occasion,
and the sleepwaker was unaware that any thing had
been said.
XBSMERIC SLEEPWAIUNG. 145
Another patient (E. A-, to whom I shall have
occasion to allude hereafter) said, when I was sing-
ing, "You should ask Mr. V-" (a mu11ician who
was in the room) ·" to accompany you." I did so;
but, though Mr. V-- made a loud accompaniment
to my voice, E. A. kept calling out, " Why does he
not play?"
3dly. State of the nerve1 of touch.-Every one
has heard of the insensibility of sleepwakers to
external stimuli. Even in the present crisis of
hostility to mesmerism, the world seems agreed to
go the length of believing, with Mr. Edwin Lee, that,
"in the states of partial torpor, not unfrequently
occurring in nervous persons," (so does the cautious
doctor define mesmeric sleepwaking,) " the indivi-
duals are, to a certain extent, insensible to mechani-
cal stimulants. " This being granted, the evidence
which I can bring forward to confirm the alleged
phenomenon is, fortunately, but little needed; and, in
truth, I was too little inclined to try such cruelties
upon my sleepwakers, as plunging in pins and apply-
ing moxas, to be able to offer numerous proofs upon
the subject. Such experiments, however unfelt at
the time, cannot but produce effects of which the
patients will become sensible afterwards; and,
:when they are smarting under the pain occasioned
by the burning away of half an inch of skin, they
will be but ill consoled by the glory of having suf-
fered in the cause of science. On these grounds, I
have refus,ed either ~ torment my sleepwakers or to
allow them to be tormented. However, a friend of
H
...
146 MESMERIC SLEEPWA.KINO.
mine was on~ determined to try an experiment of
this kind; and, without giving me any notice of his
intentions, he suddenly plunged a large pin into the
back ofthe hand of Anna M-·-, so that the blood
came when it was withdrawn. She neither moved
her hand nor started, nor seemed in any way sen-
sible of the injury. About half an hour after, being
still in the mesmeric state, she looked at her
hand, as if by accident, and, seeing the congealed
blood on it, asked, " What in the world is this ? " ·
At another time, being lightly touched with the end
of a feather about the lips and nostrils, (a proceeding
which few can endure,} she gave no token of sensa-
tion, and once, while I was mesmerising her, she said,
" I feel now quite comfortable," at the very mo- ·
ment when some one, fond of experiment, was pulling
,her ear till it became scarlet. [This inflaming of the
cuticle seems to show, by the way, that the skin, in
sleepwaking, loses none of its functions, though it no
longer transmits sensations to the mind.] Other
little circumstances, naturally presenting themselve~~t
have confirmed to me the physical insensibility of
sleepwakers. Anna M-- had once a swollen and
very painful finger. In her waking state she com•
plained bitterly of the torment she endured from this,
and was constantly breathing on the disordered part.
Once, in sleepwaking, she seemed to forget her
finger altogether; and, on being interrogated, de-
clared that she felt no pain.
Another of my sleep'Wakers (E. A-) watched
hissensations, while be was enteringinto the mesmeric
state, up to the last moment, when consciousness })e.
MESMERIC SLEEPWA.JtiNG. 147
came extinguished. He told me that he could dis-
tinctly perceive a gradual deadening of sensation;
that at length he no longer felt his limbs; but that all
his life and feeling seemed to rally towards the brain.
In the mesmeric state, he continued to assure me
that he was corporeally insensible; and, anxious, as
it seemed, to try experiments upon himself, he would
bite his own hand till he drew blood, without, ~ he
affirmed, exciting sensation.
4thly. State of the organs of taste.- That these
also share the insensibility of the other senses
· I have had every reason to believe. Anna M--
oould never distinguish one substance, that was placed,
with precaution, in her mouth from another. I
have told her that cheese was very good orange, or
water wine ; and she, trusting to my veracity, has
implicitly believed ine : her faith in my assertions
being uncorrected by the exercise of her usual facul-
ties, and preponderating manifestly over these. I have
tried upon her, when in sleepwaking, the well-known
experiment of placing a piece of zinc and a piece of
silver, the one above, the other below, the tongue,
and then bringing them suddenly in contact; but
no metallic taste was perceived by her. The same
experiment, repeated in her waking state, produced
its usual result.
5thly. The nnell seems equaUy unaffected by ez-
tmud stimulru. - I have held, for a· considerable
time, strong ammonia, which made my own eyes
water, even at a distance, close under the nose of a.
aleepwaker, while the mouth was shut and respir·
H2
148 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKtNG',
-ation carried on only through the nostrils. The
breathing proceeded as regularly as before ; there
was no watering of the eye : in short, the patient
(a sister of Theodore) gave no token whatever of·
sensibility in the olfactory nerves, or those of common
sensation or toueh.
Having finished our review of the sensitive organs,
we now proceed to consider the state of those which
may be called vital, viz. the.respiratory, the circula-
tory, and the digestive.
In those ·mesmerised persons who have fallen
under my observation, the respiration has been
slower and more regular than usual, resembling what
it is in sleep. Occasionally, when the sleepwaker has
been permitted to repose, either in ·a sitting or
recumbent posture, the breathing has become louder,
almost approaching to stertorous. Any one seeing
the mesmerised at such times would pronounce them
to be really asleep; but the proof that this cannot
be the case is, that they .still heat• and answer the
inf'smeri~er's voice.
I have found, also, that, in mesmeric sleepwaking,.
the heart beats more slowly and evenly than in the
normal state,. and that the pulse: indicates a corre-
sponding change in the circulation.
On one occasion, two medical men, by no means
favourable to mesmerism, were present when I was
about to mesmerise Mademoiselle M--. It was
during the festivities of the Antwerp carnival ; and
my fair patient, having been at a ball for. two nights
run_ning, was fatigued, and feverish ~ complaining
much of pains and stiffn~s in her limbs. Before be-
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 149
ginning to mesmerise, I requested the medical men
to feel her pulse. On doing this, their exclamation
was, " You ought to be in your bed, Mademoiselle,
for you have a great deal of fever. " In fact, her
pulse was 120, her skin hot and dry, and her
tongue white. I then threw my patient into sleep-
waking; and after she had continued in that state,
reposing on a chair, for about a quarter ofan hour, I
again asked the doctors to feel her pulse. Each took
a wrist, as before, with due professional gravity, and
with a stop-watch cgunted the pulsations. " Mar-
vellous !" they both exc1aimed. " The pulse beats
quite other than when we last felt it. The sharp
wiry rebound of fever is gone, and the pulsations,
besides being soft, full, and regular, are not more
than 80 in a minute. " After this I made my pa•
tient rise from her chair, and,' during the hour that
·she remained in sleepwaking, she was in almost con-
stant motion; yet she neither complained of, nor
betrayed in her gestures, the fatigue and stiffness
from which she had previously been suffering. On
awaking, the doctors again inspected her state, and
assured me that every symptom of malady had dis-
appeared. The patient's pulse had sunk to 74 in the
minute ; her skin was cool ; her tongue no longer
indicative offever. When asked for an account <Jf
her own personal sensations, she declared that she
felt so renovated, and so entirely free from pain and
uneasiness, that she should have thought that the
sleep of two nights had been put together in the
15ingle hour of her sleepwaking. Hearing this,
&3
150 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
the doctors were inclined to exclaim, with him of the·
fraternity in Macbeth, "A great perturbation in ·
nature I To receive at once ·the benefit of sleep,
and do the effects of watching."
The Effect o/ the Mesmeric Sleep on the Digestive Or-
gans seems equally reparatory, and indicative of'in-
creased Power.
E. A.-- a youth aged fifteen, whom I frequently
mesmerised, and whose general health was excellent,
Wll!J suffering one day from an accidental attack of
indigestion, accompanied by slight sickness. During
an hour's sleepwaking his uneasy feelings were sus-
pended, and, when he awoke, were found to be
completely. removed. At another time - not with
a vi.ew to any particular experiment, but in the way
ofa pleasantry - I kept the same sleepwaker in the
mesmeric state for a longer period than usual, so as
to make him eat his supper with our family party,
·while still in sleepwaking. Our evening meal was
brought in; and the patient, at my request, (for
otherwise he did not seem to care about taking any-
thing,) ate whatever was given him; and as our object
was to make him ftel, on awaking, that he had had
his supper, and to wonder how this had come to ~
we supplied him plentifully with food, so that he
actually made a fuller meal than was usual with him
at the same hour. We then had the supper things
remqved ; and, in about a quarter of an hour after-
.wards, I awoke the patient. His first question was,
" Have I been long asleep?" " How long.should
XESMER.IC SLEEPWAKING. 151
you suppo&e ?" we inquired. "I cannot imagine,"
he replied; "but I hope we shall soon have supper,
for I am very hungry,., At this we all laughed, and
assured him that he had just made a capital meal-
a piece·of information which he at first refused to
believe. The bell was rung, and the servant called
in to depose to the fact, before he could credit it ;
and then he appeared by no means disposed to rest
contented with what seemed in his idea a refection
as visionary as that wherewith the Barmecide in the
Arabian Nights regaled the beggar. He begged
to have if it were only a crust of bread, to appease
the cravings of hunger; and, the wherewithal being
afForded, soon made a second repast as substantial
as that which we had forced upon him during his
sleepwaking.•
• At the time that the above phenomenon presented itself, I
had not met with an interesting account of an extraordinary
cure by mesmerism, written by M. Despine, physician at Aix-
en-Savoie.
Subsequently, on reading the Doctor's pamphlet, I was struck
with the following passages and their relation to the subject we
have been considering:-
" Estelle a l'appetence de tout ce qui lui convenait, et de ce
qu'elle aimait dans sea premiers ans. De plus, elle ~n mange,
pendant sa crise, avec ahondance et impunement, sans jamais en
sentir le moindre mal-aise ; pendant que, dans son ~tat naturel,
elle ne saurait s'ecarter de son regime v~getal habitue!, sans en
eprouver des crampes, &c.
" On dirait que notre malade semblait avoir deux estomacs -
l'un pour l'etat de crise, I'autre pour celui de veille.
"Mais ce qui paraltra plus singulier encore, c'est que lee
alimens, pris en abondance dans Ia crise, ne paraissaient pas, le
H4
152 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING~
Again, before ·the above occurrence had taken
place, I mesmerised the same person neal" the hour
of luncheon ; he having previously observed that he
was very hungry, and therefore hoped I should wake
him soori, in order that he might eat his accustomed
meal. When in mesmeric sleepwaking, .he com-
plained no more of hunger; and, indeed, assured me
that he felt nothing whatever of the powerful appetite
which had so recently tormented him. He had no
desire to awake ; and, as I was engaged in trying upon
him some interesting experiments relating to vision,
I did not think of demesmerising him till late in
the day- about half an hour 'before dinner. The
moment he was restored to the normal state, he
declared that he was almost mad with hunger; and,·
when I told him how long he had been in sleep..
waking, was quite angry that I had not waked him
sc;>oner. Though told that dinner would soon be on
the table, he begged to eat something immediately.
moins du monde, Ia rassasier pour le temps de veille, et vice
Since reading the above, I have had an opportunity of seeing.
the young person mentioned-a most interesting little girl, o
thirteen years of age, living at Neufch8tel, in Switzerland.
Her mother certified to me all the above .particulars, and told
me that mesmerism alone had cured her daughter Estelle of
paralysis and spine complaint, after all other means had been
tried in vain. Of the degree of the patient's previous illness of
course I can only speak from the testimony of others; but this
I can certify, that, when I saw MadeRJoiselle Estelle L'H--;
she was apparently in perfect health and enjoying the activity
natural to her age. ·
)(E.SMERiC SLEEPWAIUNG. 15$
This- and the preceding anecdotes seem to indicate
that the digestive functions are by no means disor-
dered or suspended during mesmeric sleepwaking ;
but, on the contrary, that they act more powerfully:
w~le, on the other hand, they do not, as usual, con-
vey intimations of their condition to the mind; for,
in the first instance, we have seen indigestion re-
moved during sleepwaking- a proof that the appa-
ratus of digestion is strengthened in the mesmeric
slumber. Secondly, we have been made aware of
digestion having been rapidly performed in the mes-
meric state : a full meal having been so quickly
assimilated tO the juices of the body as to cause
the sensation of hunger to recur almost immediately
after it was taken. Thirdly, we have been shown
hunger progressing as usual, but unfelt, during the
whole period of the mesmeric sleep.
I may add that the increased energy given to the
digestive functions during mesmeric sleepwaking has
·seemed, in some cases, to confer a lasting benefit.
Mademoiselle M--, though in other respects strong
and healthy, suffered, when I first saw her, from
indigestion, which. manifested itself in painful fits of
colic. Subsequently she thus wrote to me :-" With
regard to my complaints of the stomach, I have not.
feli the least symptoms since my last mesmerising.
My malady has been too severe, and the relief I have .
experienced too effectual, for me to doubt of the
good effects of mesmerism."
Again, that the human influence is reparatory of
.the vital functions generally, I had a proof in the case
H5
154 MESMERIC S!.EEPWAKING;
of ·a gentleman (already mentioned in Sect. fl.)
who allowed me to mesmerise bioi when he was
suffering from the fatigue of a long journey and
night-travelling. He remained in the mesmeric
state half an hour only, yet, on awaking, he exclaim-
ed, "Je me sens comme nouveau-he." · All sense.of
lassitude was gone.
From the vital we proceed to a consideration of
the motive powers.
Any one who has attended to the cases of mes·
meric sleepwaking, which I have detailed elsewhere,
must have remarked that the natural inclination of
mesmeric patients is to remain perfectly still. It is
only by the mesmeriser's persuasion that they. are
induced to move; and their first attempts at walking
are, like those of an infant learning to use its limbs,
weak and tottering. After a time, however, by a sort
of education from the mesmeriser, the sleepwaker
is enabled to move freely and firmly. The mind
has. evidently resumed its empire over the nerves
of motion, yet still is disconnected 'from the nerves
of sense; -a circumstance which strongly illustrates
Sir Charles Bell's valuable discovery respecting
the absolute distinctness of these two sets of nerves;
and which confirms the thesis, that motion is
ever propagated downward, from the brain to the
exterior of the body ; while sensation is conveyed
upward, from the extremities of the nerves to the
brain. I think, also, that the power which sl~
waken possess over their motory system proves
satisfactorily that, according to the ingenious sug-
MESMERIC SLEEPWAitfNG. ·155
·gestion of Sir C. Bell, there exists a distinct muscular
sense; for we see it here insulated, and acting at a
ti~e when all the other senses have ceased their
functions. Nor does the muscular sense merely act
under mesmeric sleepwaking, but it acts (from the
time that the patient is habituated to his new exist-
. ence) in a ·very perfect manner. I have seen dis-
played by sleepwakers an activity which they did
not possess awake.
Availing myself of the attraction which draws the
patient after the mesmeri~r, I have made Made-
moiselle M-- follow me, when mounting upon
ehairs or wardrobes. Another of my mesmerisees,
when I got upon a chair, leapt lightly up after me;
and, there being scarcely room for her to stand,
remained poised in a very extraordinary manner, on
the extreme edge of the chair, exhibiting, in that
position, an ease and graceful firmness, quite rem·ote
from the characteristics of her usually reserved de-
meanour.
Additional strength as well as agility of body
seems to accompany the more advanced periods of
the mesmeric state. · E. A--, in sleepwaking,
could throw, in wrestling, a person he could not
master when awake ; .and once he burst a locked
door open with an ease that was extraordinary. The
same phenomena, which occur with respect to the
·motor muscles in general, take place also as regards
the mUJCles of the larynx. On first mesmerisation,
the voice of the patient is weak, and it is evidently
an exertion for him to speak at all; but subsequently
II 6
156 .MESMERIC SLEEPWAKIN<J.
be resumes his powers of speech, and, if musical, can
sing as well as in the waking state. I should, how-
ever, observe, that the tone to which he pitches his
voice in conversation depends much upon that in
which the mesmeriser addresses him: should the
former whisper, be whispers too, or the contrary.
This is the general rule; but Anna M-- offered
an exception to this. Her voice in sleepwaking was
generally very feeble, and she used to complain of
its extinction•
.Though hitherto treating of the patient separately
from the mesmeriser, it appears to me that this
branch of my subject would be incomplete, did I not
add to such phenomena of motion as are proper to
the sleepwaker others which are caused by the mes-
meriser's influence over his patient.
I have already remarked that the sleepwaker ex-
hibits an occasional community of motion with the
mesmeriser, and adopts something of his general
deportment. Some additional instances of these
phenomena may be interesting.
Anna M--, in her mesmeric state, mounted
a staircase with me, in or,der to visit an invalid lady
of our party. I observed that she ascended two stairs
at a time, after a manner that had become habitual
to me. At another time, when I had a cold, she,
though free from such an affection in her natural
state, coughed, in her sleepwaking, whenever ·1 did.
I extract the following from a register of our mes-
meric proceedings, once kept by one of our family.
January 2. 1838. "The rnesmeriser rubs h~
.MESMERIC SLEEPWAJUNd. 11)'7
hands, and Anna M- immediately does the
same. When the mesmeriser blows his nose, the
patient puts her hand up to hers, as if doing the
same thing. When the former began ·to dance, the
latter did so too, imitating exactly the movements of
her mesmeriser, and snapping her fingers as he did.
The mesmeriser, having turned from the patient,
who was ·sitting at a table, took up a pencil, and,
.without her seeing him, made some strokes upon
paper. The patient took up another pencil which
lay at hand, and made similar strokes."
With respect to the times when these phenomena
were exhibited, I remarked that they occurred espe-
~ially when any more violent muscular motion took
place on my part, such as in the act ofblowing my nose,
ofdancing, &c. ; -also, when my attention was par-
ticularly directed to the production of the pheno-
mena. When such was the case, I have turned my
back, and made gestures in perfect silence, (so as to
prevent any suspicion of the patient being influenced
by sight or sound,) and they have been perfectly imi-
tated by her. Once, I agreed with a friend of mine
to put my hand into my coat pocketat a certain signal
nom him. The sleepwaker, though standing where
she could know nothing of the circumstance, thrust
back ·her hand immediately into a similar position
with my own. The same friend, who was determined
to try everything to put the sleepwaker at fault, used
to imitate my rubbing my hands, coughing, or blow-
ing my nose, in order to induce Anna M- to do
the same; and thus to prove that she was guided by
!58 .MESMERIC SLEEPWAitiNG.
sound, not by sympathy of motion. The patien~
however, was never influenced in the slightest degree
by these artifices. Whether such correspondences
of motion result from purely mechanical causes may
be much doubted; - but there is another class of
motory phenomena in whieh the body of the mesmer-
iser must clearly be considered as the depository of
some attractive force, entirely independent of his
will; for they result simply from the position in
which the patient may be placed relatively to the
mesmeriser.•
Having frequently remarked that the head of a
mesmerised person follows the band of the mesmer-
iser, as iron does the loadstone, I, in order to sub-
mit the phenomenon to the surest proof, bandaged
the eyes.of E. A-- previously to mesmerising him,
and filled with cotton every possible interstice that
might be left between the cheek and the handker-
chief, in such a manner as to convince every person,
who witnessed the experiment, that for the patient to
• This mechanical attraction appears to have been firit no-
ticed by M. De Lausanne, who observed it in a patient of biJ
.own- a female, whose sensitiveness was remarkably developed.
In a work on mesmerism, published at Paris, this author, who
still, I believe, is living, gives a particular account of some in-
teresting experiments relative to the subject. When M. De
Lausanne was in another room, or even outside the house, the
sleepwaker, above alluded to, turned her head in the exact direc-
tion of her mesmeriser. This was established by repeated t.riaLI,
before witnesses. It should be remembered that the development
. ofsimilar phenomena, in so striking a degree, presuppoaes always
a rare and advanced stage ofsleepwaking. ·
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING~ 156
pereeive by sight the motions of my hand was entirely
out of the.question. As soon, however, as E. A-
bad entered into sleepwaking, his head followed my
band, at the distance of at least two feet, with uner-
ring certainty. Did I place it on the left of his head, ·
his head instantly inclined to that side; was it in front,
he bent forward to meet it ; was it behind him, he
lei.nt back towardS it with what would seem a painful
and unnatural effort.
· A.galn, I held my hand above his leg; immediately
the limb was attracted upwards. ·I continued to
withdraw my hand; and the leg was so qmch elevated
as to form an acute angle with the body of the
patient. Finally, I ran quickly away to the other
end of the room ; and the sleepwaker followed me
quickly and unerringly.
At another ·time, being in one of the folds of a
screen, and Anna M- in another, I put out my
hand (but not beyond the projection of the screen),
when instantly the patient's hand came round to
meet mine~
One evening, when I had mesmerised the. same
sleepwaker, and I was sitting near her, it occurred to
me to inquire, " Ifmy hand possesses so singular a
property of attraction, what power of a similar kind
·may · reside in my foot? " With this thought, I
raised my foot, not in any unusual manner, but as if
I were laymg one leg over the other. The sole of
my foot was thus presented tO the patient. In a very
short time she began to turn round upon her chair,
10 as nearly to fall into .the fire. Struck with thia
166- li(ES~ERIC SLEEPWAJtiNG-,
oddity, I made the sleepwaker rise, and again pre-
sented my foot, when she commenced a series of re-o
gular revolutions, from right to left, stopping always,
when she had half completed the circle, with a ben4
and a dip, like that of the magnetic needle. The
experiment repeated always produced the same
results.
Again, when standing opposite to my patient, who
was in- an upright position, I began to tum round.
She also seemed forced to revolve, but in a direction
contrary to mine. If I turned from left to right, she
turned from right to left, and vice versa.
I tried the same experiments on other sleepwakers..
They also turned round when I did, and inversely to
myself; but my foot, when -presented to them, instead
of making them revolve (a phenomenon apparently
confined to Anna M--), seemed simply to repel
them. I tried this with the sister of Theodore•.Every
time that I held out my hand she was attracted to-
wards me; whenever I held out my foot, she was
repelled ; and, by the alternate exercise of these two
influences, she was kept oscillating to and fro like the
pendulum of a clock.
That the mesmeriser can create motion in the
sleepwaker is not the only proof of the power that he
possesses over the organisation of the latter. He .is
also capable of paralysing those motory agencies
which he so much sways. But experiments of this
. kind should be undertaken with the greatest caution.
Puysegur relates that, having tried, from curiosity, to
paralyse the respiratory organs of a sleepwaker, he
.MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 161
· threw the patient into a state resembling death, which
lasted for several hours. Dr. Sigmond has also
reported the case of a lady whom, without intending
it, he threw into an alarming state of insensibility,-
a circumstance which (ifl may venture to say so) is
explained l?Y the Doctor's own statement of his mes-
meric principles. His words are - " It is upon the
respiration that my efforts are directed; and the prin-
eiple is precisely that which is called ' stealing the
breath away.'"
The account is in" The Lancet'' for Dec. 1837,and
I have since had no opportunity of learning any of
Dr. Sigmond's subsequent experiments. I do not,
however, doubt but that experience has brought him
to the same conclusion as myself;- namely, that
those motions and intentions of the mesmeriser which
are most directed towards equalisi71[J ·the influence
he wields are the best; and that we should above
all avoid concentrating the action upon any vital part.
Being fully persuaded of this, I have seldom ventured
upon paralysing the nerves of motion, save in the less
important parts of·the body, -as in the hand or
arm, for instance. What led me to try such experi-
ments at all was this :-Mr. K--, of Antwerp, my
first instructor in mesmerism, had exhibited to me a ·
curious phenomenon which occurred whenever he
closed the hand of one of his sleepwakers over a piece
ofcoin (silver or copper). The hand remained rigidly
shut, and the patient seemed utterly incapable ofopen-
ing it, until after the dispersion of the mesmeric sleep.
From a train of analogous reasoning, I was much
- ·
}62 MESMERIC SLEEPWAJUNG.
inclined to believe that the coin had no more to do
with the phenomenon in question than the magnet
and the baquet with the effects which Mesmer pro-
duced upon his early patients. I accordingly closed
the hand of Mademoiselle M-- without the coin,
and again with it. As I had anticipated, the result
in both cases was the same. Moreover, I discovered
that, by breathing on the patient's hand, I could
always, and under any circumstances, restore it to
its functions- in fact, that myself, and not the metal,
was the depository of the paralysing power, what-
ever 'it might ~e.
I relate this in the hope that it may warn others,
as it did me, against attributing, in· mesmerism, .
effects to wrong causes. In all that regards mesmeric
sleepwaking there is especial danger of falling into
such an error, from the curious blending that it
exhibits of human and of mechanical action ;. and
never can we adjust the balance properly, until the
mesmeriser's influence over his patient be fully taken
into account.
A curious cirtumstance, attending the mesmeriser's
power over the patient's organisation,is this:- When
the two are in frequent mesmeric relationship, the
phenomenon is carried forward into the natural state.
This I found tobe the case after I had often mesmer-
ised Anna M-- and E. A--. I could, at any
time, fix the hand or arm of either of these persona
in any position I pleased, and in all the rigidness of
catalepsy. The means I used to produce this effect
were as follows:- I fi~st placed the limb as I wished
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 163
it to remain, and then brought the fingers of both
hands into contact with it, at opposite poles, as it
were, and pointing to each other, so that, supposing
they emanated a stream of galvanic or other influ-
ence, it would pass exactly through the part to be
affected. The desired result did not ensue imme-
diately, but in two or three minutes; and its intensity
was proportioned to the length of time I acted on the
limb. The patients described a sensation of gradual
paralysis, and a deadness, ·as when a leg or arm, in
common parlance, goes to sleep. At length a spas·
modic contraction of the muscles took place : the
hand looked white and bloodless, and the fingers un-
naturally rigid. To the touch they seemed as chords
that are pulled tight; and, if the numbness con;
tinued, they lost all feeling. No force, short of what
would have produced mechanical injury, could undo
them. On one occasion, I placed the arm of E. A.
in a position so twisted and constrained, that it was
not possible for him to oppose much voluntary force
to any one's efforts to pull it down; yet,·whea once
paralysed, there was not a person present who could
stir it. It offered the resistance of marble. More-
over, this patient was not in the least imaginative,
and ridiculed the idea that fancy could produce the
phenomenon in question. When I wished to restore
motion to a limb thus paralysed I breathed on it,
.and made some magnetic passes down it, accompa-
nied sometimes by slight friction. The return oflife
and feeling was gradual as their loss, and was accom•
panied by those tinglings called pins and needles.
!6.£ MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING;
A slight numbness was generally felt for some time
after the experiment. Once I persu~~:ded E. A--
to permit me to try whether, in his waking state, I
could prevent him from opening his eyes. The ex-
periment was perfectly successful. By pressing down
the upper eyelid with a finger of one hand, and plac-
ing a finger of the other upon the lower lid, I could
so influence the levator muscle as (after withdrawing
my hands) to keep either eye closed while the other
was wide open. The patient could not, in general,
shut his right eye without also shutting the left.
I have now taken a review of the condition
of the bodily organs, and of the motive powers,
under mesmeric sleepwaking, being at the same
time fully aware how much is left to be performed
by abler hands than mine. I am no physician;
and a very minute inquiry into the physical state of
;mesmeric patients is not my province. I, however,
seriously recommend to all who study medicine as a
profession, especially to the younger aspirants in this
branch ofscience, (since they, at least,are notgrounded
and rooted in antique prejudices,) to pay attention to
mesmerism, after the plan that I have laid down;
i. e. to ascertain, during its operation, the exact and
peculiar state·of every organ and function of the
human body.
By mesmertsm we best dissect man, whether men-
tally or physically ; and, if ever the vital influences
are to be understood, it is not by anatomising the
dead, or by torturing the living, but by observation
ofour fellow-beings when in the state we call mes-
meric.
l'tJESl\IERIC SLEEPWAKINGo 165
I now proceed to offer some remarks upon the
mental condition of patients under mesmeric sleep.:.
waking, c~nsidering the soul in its moral, intellectual,
and sensitive capacities.
First, as regards our moral being: -
That the state of mesmeric sleepwaking is a rise in
man's nature, no one, who has been conversant with
it, can doubt.
Separated from the usual action of the senses, the
mind appears to gain juster notions, to have quite a
new sense of spiritual things, and to be lifted nearer
to ~he fountain of all good and of all truth. The
great indication of this elevated state of feeling is a
horror of falsehood, which I have found common ·to
all sleepwakers. Sincerity is their especial charac-
teristics ; they cannot feign or flatter : they seem to
be taken out of common life, with ~~ its heartless
fonns and plausible conventions. .
I proceed, by one or two instances, to show how
forcibly sleepwakers are impelled to speak the thing
that is, and to clear their consciences of that dis..
sim\llation which clings so much to man in his
patural state.
During the Antwerp carnival, a lady, who took a ·
sincere interest in Anna M.'s welfare, advised her not
t.o go to the masked ball, which is usually given at
that season. The night after the ball, Anna came to
be mesmerised, and, though complaining of fatigue;
would not owil that she had acted in opposition to the
advice that she had received. When, however, ill
aleel'waking, she acknowledged, of her own accord.
166 MESMERIC SLEEPWAitiNG.
that she had been at the masked ball, and said that
she felt she had done wrong in practising conceal-
ment, though her motive had been to avoid giving
pain to her kind monitress.
A similar instance of candid confession occurred in
E. A. I had given him a bottle of lotion for his eyes,
which were weak at the time : he took it home with
him; and a day or two afterwards, in reply to my
inquiries as to the benefit received, answered in
some prevaricating way, so as to make me suppose
that he had used the lotion to advantage. Sub-
sequently, however, being in mesmel_'ic sleepwaking,
he said, quite voluntarily, " There is something
that I wish to tell you. In going home the other
night I broke that bottle which you gave me. I
feared you would be angry if you knew this, and I
dared not own it when awake; but now I feel that
I did not act rightly."
In the mesmeric state, the character of this sleep-
waker.presentedgenerally a strong contrastto its wak-
ing exhibition. Good talents and a good disposition
had, in him, been warped by an unfortunate educa-
tion; and, young as he was, he had imbibed at Paris
certain infidel opinions, of the worst kind, which he
scarcely studied to conceal. I asked him once, in his
waking state, what he thought became of us after
death; and his answer was, " Des qu'on est mort, on
n'est plus rien du tout."
This extreme ignorance on most subjects was ac-
companied by a vain belief that he knew a good deal;
and ifone stated to him the commonest Acts ofphi-
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. }67
losophy, (the distance of the sun from the earth, for
example,) he suspected a design of playing upon his
credulity, and entrenched himself in absolute on-
belie£ In sleepwaking all this was changed. . His
ideas of the mind were correct, and singularly op-
posed to the material views he took of all questions
when in the waking state. He once chided me for
calling the soul "une chose;" and said, " Ce n'est
pas une chose, -c'est une .pensee." "Can the soul
ever die?" I asked. "Certainly not. It is the soul,
which is the only true existence, and which gives
existence to all we apprehend." " Whence came the
soul ? " " From God, who, by his thoughts, created
the universe." His words were, " L'ame provient de
Dieu, qui a cree l'univers par sa pensee. " " Is there
a future punishment for evil-doers?" Undoubtedly,
a great one." " In what will it consist?" "In seeing
themselves as they are, and God as he is."
On another occasion, I mesJ1lerised E. A., when a
lady ofgreat talents and feeling, and an author, well
known to English literature, were present. The latter
was suffering under a severe domestic affliction. He
had recently lost a beloved daughter; and the torie of
mind, induced by that bereavement, naturally inclined
him to question the sleepwaker on subjects relative
to a future state. In order that Mr. - might
speak with the greater freedom, I placed him "en
rapport" as it is called, with E. A., and took but little
part in th,e conversation that ensued. The convers-
ation itself I cannot accurately detail; but the gene-
ral impression that it left upon my mind can never
168 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
be effaced. The -sleepwaker t~e into eloquence'
which seemed 'imearthly. ·.··l(t;'w81H!imple•.:!- it was
beautiful-it · was·;lilu~· ah·'irJjjplratibn. · ·~He spoke
of the' never-dying: ' nature of'·the' 1 ~dul';i of '.its
ransomM beatittidef'dlli' itS ·pr~ess through· va-
rious eras of ·. existence,''··aunn~ which .·be-' asserted
(for here I retrieuibe\:1;' hig ·'vel"'y 1~<IS}, · ·" Elle
conserve Ia memoire' du ··~s~; 'et·di:!s' armti& fliites
sur Ia terre; ·ei 'elle a;'.J•
ren-Hb''•de revoir ~eux
qu'elle a cheris atitrefuts• ..;Tout ·J~ bien de l'lme
s'en va avec elle, et dtire apres:lal'rii:ort ;· et lesjustes
qui se sont pleu'tes ·ici bas' gerom r€unis ..!¢evant
Dieo." Every one pre8en~ wa.S'affected L some even
to tears. It was, indeed;• beautiful tb see the young
prophet- whose counterlarlce' 'ha:~ retaken an ex.:.
pression of candour and of childish innocence -
speaking so calmly the words of holln'ess and of com-
fort, and the older listener humbly stooping to
drink of the waters of refreshment from so lowly a
source.
The same sleepwaker, thoroughly unsentimental in
his natural state, seemed always, when mesmerised, to
take a pleasure in losing himself in imaginations of
another world. Beautiful are the things he has
said to me respecting the soul's recognition ofthose it
loved on earth, and of the privilege of departed
friends to watch over the objects of their solicitude
while toiling through the pilgrimage of life ; but were
I particularly to record thesespeculations, as theywould
be called, I should probably be deemed a visionary7
or branded as an enthusiast. It is enough ~o say
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 169
that, under mesmeric sleepwaking, all the hard incre-
dulity which characterised E•.A. when awake was
gone. His wilfulness was become submission ; his
pride, humility; and, in precise proportion as he
seemed to know more, he appeared to esteem himself
less. Often would he regret the errors of his waking
hours, and speak of his natural state as of an exist·
ence apart. Often would he exclaim, in sleepwaking,
" How I wish I couldalways see things as I do now I "
There is not a person who saw him in the mesmeric
state but remarked the change for the better that his
physiognomy underwent. His· affections, also, were
enlarged. Egotistical in general, and displaying but
little sensibility, he, in the mesmeric state, showed
all the warmth of a kind-hearted nature. Shortly be-
fore leaving me I mesmerised him. Immediately on
pas~~ing into sleepwaking his countenance assumed
an expression of the deepest sorrow, and he seemed
scareely able to speak. When asked the cause of his
sadness, he said, " I am going away : how deeply I
feel it I " Restored to his waking state, he laughed,
and talked, and seemed as unconcerned as usual.
That in the mesmeric state the mind's sensibility
is exalted and refined, I had also a proof, when one
day I was reading to Mademoiselle M-- (then in
sleepwaking) Wordsworth's touching poem of Lucy
Gray. Utterly insensible to poetry in her waking
state, she at that time felt all its charms : her
countenance varied with emotion ; she watched the
progress of the little story with the deepest interest;
and, when I arrived at the stanza-
I
...
170 MESHEBJC SLEEPWA.JUNG.
" The storm came on before i~ time,
She wander'd up and down;
And many a hlll did Lucy climb,
But never reached the town,"
she burst into a passion of tears, and cried out,
" Oh t cease, cease ! I can bear it no longer."
Yet, that this increased sensibility was regulated
by considerable self-control appeared manifestly on
a certain occasion; when some one, placed "en rapport"
with her in sleepwaking, made an unfortunate allu-
sion to the death of a person to whom Mademoiselle
M. had been strongly attached. She wept much,
but, seE"iog me uneasy, said, "Do not mind, sir, I
will control myself;" which she accordingly did, and,
by a moral effort, she resumed her tranquillity.
Another feature of the moral state in mesmerism
is a tendency to replace the conventional forms of
.the world by a frank exhibition of general good will
and cordial regard to all men. Justinus Kerner (in
his " Leherin von Prevorst, " published at Stutgart
and Tiibingen, 1832,) relates that the sleepwaker, to
whom he has given the above high-sounding a~
pellation, would never, in the mesmeric state, address
any one in the third person plural, which is the cere-
monial manner of speaking in Germany; but always
in the second person singular, which the Germans
consider as expressive of intimacy and affection. I
have observed something of the same kind in those
sleepwakers who have come under my notice. E. A.
was once thrown into the mesmeric state in the pre-
sence ofa gentleman whom, as his superior in age and
.MBBMERJO · SLEEPWA'ItiNG. :i7l
station in, society, he regarded with the greatest
respect. Having written, as requested, some music
.for this gentle~n,.he in!icri~ed it thus:-" A mon
.cher V. 0." It is curious to compare this familiar
dedication with those which were written in his
waking state, where every title was given its due
·weight, and nothing was presented save " avec les
hommages les plus respectueuses."
A state of mind so simple, so religious, so tender,
yet so pure; is in itself a refutation of the charge of
immorality, which they who lack the charity that
hopes and believes the best have attempted to bring
~st mesmerism. Ifto this be added the absolute
deadness of corporeal.sensation which I have shown
to accompany mesmt-ric sleepwaking, there will be a
manifest absurdity in the supposition that it is (as
some one c'a.lled it) a mere "voluptuous juggl~"­
an affair of the senses and of sexual feeling.
The attraction towards·the mesmeriser, testified by
·the patient, which has, perhaps, contributed to give
birth to this monstrous idea, is of a nature totally
distinctfrom the promptings of passion. Ifcompared
to any love, it must be likened to self-love ; for it
seems to result from that identification of the vital
and nervous system of the two parties of which I
haTe.already given many examples, and which admits
of still further illustration. For instance, a gentle-
man, whom I was mesmerising for the first time,
asked me, when I bad laid my hand on his forehead,
whether he felt his own band or mine placed there,
declaring himself wholly unable to decide. Anna
I 2
MT"""'""r.', when.,l:have been suifering·¥-om .a sensation
o£..~1J; ·has wt,;fllllf oomplai.Il~ of .being chilly, but
~.~d,. "-Will5P$.·.w~tyguraelf,f~.m~~:l''. i Once
whc.n (unk®wp .U> h~Ill•-bad a. blister·.® my side,
l.o~ved..tbat, durhlgl~epwakisg, she co~tal)tly
car.ried.hE!Jl ~'.to h~t ,Q~ iside. I S~-~k~ her, ;why
~l,w, ~ this, ~ tthif.-tPt:·"Th~ i15 soJIWU.ipg there
dlat 'pa.i.Jilsr,me, l8b if :the skin wue torn oW..?' At
·~~hetttime, ,'Jilhen! l·"W•·-'hirsty., a.sleepwaker .()OJD-
plainEd: al~-of .tJUrs,t,o 11l• offered: to 'give ·he~:'IODJe
~rj butlshEI·jjB.idf.~~, No'; yoUt·nntst,dru,.k for .nw.''
J\'1,-.~UJ:ir~ baing·~~,,~e ·aleepwakerlaJJU~eaai­
~)·~s. ~ved,.,n:;r~ patiept.,. also, during •mef!ioo
,IDf3rism,J~pt$,;t0.11t .c~r,tain,~xtel)t,. the ~riser'a
~H~.jp~ &n(i. di~iJc.igg4!:· J£. A~r··in ,.his ...ural
state, was very fQn.Gl,QfMl~·IDnellofhcliolr~pe, which
lfo¥P4,t.90 ~kly.folFtW ~,;- but, in.sleepw~g,
:w:hen,. tlm;a~ .we"lle :w,as ma~.to smell it,~ found
,the..~Qqr,u,npJ!'ta.&ipg.l. ril . l . . · ' •) '
. r!,,W.Pell.!:'Wiit,!CJ:l~r.:. tQf¥1e tRDd other ptoofS. dis,..
p~J~~ P.~.~\eepw;alcers of. l!ensitive and ino.tive aym-
patlzy i~vit}1..1th,~mrmf:lsmerise,r,,,:when Wfd ~e61'!e~ ·that
.lb~y,1¥.8,·~~lly -~~~ss .of injtU"i~s. ~iete«l. on
.t}lei}1~~"Vf1'!,· Ql!,t,p;~bling,ly aliv:e .th all that':he. js
fWade. tq IIJ#ft1l'; .- ;w~ ffi"Yr;well imagine,that he..11tan<ls
J,o., ~b.ml. iQ.~~ l{~ry ,p.~<;uliar ®d :vital relation: fi!Ol
.ll3V.,.it..~e~)~.PD:~#41 :lPiJ.~,when .~~evel'ed fi;()m him,
tlwy ~u·d .aclfP.~wM<Jge ~~~hii>Bl in tbeir.bei~, and
~~e~ . ~ll~, pf .~1~.·. P,Pi~y ·~~ tl;t.emselves•. · .Besides,
s~):eral ~.ir~JP-~nc~ pr"Ove.how reJnQte from sexual
f~'ing is th~. 9ne in qne$tion. In the firat place, it
MESMERIC ILEEPW'AK.nm. 173
is exhibited: equa,lly by ewry ·mesmerised person,
withmltnespeet of age, ~·or· character. • The· cold
and the stubbOl'n'at"e•'lnlbjogated·by :it'tls effectually '
as the warm ·and ·the· 'Yielding: the pride·•of talent
exen1pcs· not from thitfJdespotism;· neithet ·doos the
simple•innoclailce of>"
childhood. Neorer ha\'e ·I seen
its force more ·strongly exemplified than in the case
of a sister <tf Alma M~ a child of n~ or ·ten
years·of age. · Having once ~ft her on a sofa in the
mesmeric state, while 1·went to· 'take some tea at a
table which stood :·near, I heard; after I ·had been
away abOut five minutes, low stiffed sobs proceeding
from my litde patient.· I ha&tened to her, and found
her crying. ·Being asked by me the cause of" this
distress, she replied, " Because you staid so long
away. · It makes me suffer so much."
Again,· the attraction manifested by patients to-
wards their mesmeriser is not in the IE'ast modified
by circumstances, or by the relation of. the parties to
each other ; and it is openly exhibited by those whom
I have shown to be in a state of high mora.i feeling.
Nothing can be more evident than that it is an
instinct, not a passion: the springs of life are touched,
and the powerful impulse of self-preservation is set
in play. So, also, the repulsion from all others than
the mesmeriser is but a measure of the attractive
force which draws the patient there, where he exists
even more than in himself. Illustrative of this phy-
sical necessity, I may bring forward a circumstance
which was related to me by an eye-witness, whose
word I have never had reason to doubt. A young
I 3
17-f 11B8Jrn:RIO SLEEPW.U:IJIG.
man, meimerised for·.the first time, became unwell:
under ··the extraordinary sllimnlus ·of mesmerism,
which -sometimes; ·if..unskilfully .applied,' does.aifeot.
persons 'unpleasantly. ·i His mesmeriser waa, jn ,faer,
inexperienced· in his art;- .U;·'becoming alarmed at·
the result ,of his operations, .attempted·. to· quit· the
room. · · The eonsequenoes of this injudicicms conduct·
wen! fearful~ · The patient beeame furiEms, and·
actually tote his own •.clothes and ·the hapgings :of
the apartment. Had his mesmeriser succeeded in•
leavirrg himt he ·might:have·:sufferetil seriously ; -ll~t, .
bygooc:Hortune, a more esperienced.'mesmeriser, who
· waif 'present, for~ back•-the ine:qDert pnactitioner~ ·
and· instructed him· how··tb• 'allay. ·the tempest of.
mel1tal·and bodily-agitation which be had eo unwi~
tingly.provoked. Tba .may'sel"'Ve··as·a ·gene-ral type.
ofthe kind of feeling· edtibited by patients towards
their =meemerisers; ·and· with 'this :the language of
s~wakers tbe108ei:Ves ]8. in ;e:act.accor.dance. .A
gerltleman;· who;:taW!· E. A-·mesmerised by. me,·
saidtto him," Vous aimer bien.d'e~·avec Monsieur~~.
To whim the sleepwaker replied, " Oui, mais pas tou-
jours:eomme a~nt. D'autref<•is, je peW[ le quit-·
ter; ~'je ne sens rien; ·maihh!rtantje ne pouvais.paa-le
quitter,, quaitd .:~me- je-le voudrais." . In· the same
matiner, Anna M~, wbo·was exceedingly fond -of
my>wif«J, could not quit me to go to her, When·in the
met!'tneric·$tate. Being good-humouredly rallied upon
this, she said, "You know, dear Jady, ·how much :1 .
love you, 'and that the feeling I ·have for my mesmer-
.iser is sinctll'e Tespect. That which keeps me neeF,
MBSMERIC BLEEPWAK.ING;. 1.75
him now is quite.different from..any affection.: it .i•
oot that .I would not.wish to come to you, but .ab-
sohitely·l canno~ unless my mesmeriser eomes too."
When seated between us. both she declared herself
quite .happy... Nevertheless, it was necesaa.ry even
for my wife to app11oach . , when mesmerised, with
c:aution.• Touebing her once suddenly,~ without
having been. placed.,properly "en rapport" with
her,,.she produced ..iJl the patient a violent fit of
shivering. · , ..,. .:
.:Butit.may still be objected, tllat the mesmeriser1
if,so disposed, .may .mak•. a wrong use of the influ"!
enee· which.~e posaeBBeS over the patieot. · Pouibly :
fur, aa .I halle once before ·remarked; all power i•
capable of t~Juse. .A ,bad·physician,may temploy his
kqowledge ~f dr.ugs .to the..worst •purposes ; ~ut are
'ft.therefore .to have no physicians?. And is mesmer'!'
iBm,.because dangerous in ·evil hands, not to be ron-.
signed to ..ny haad& at all? There are some who
wrest .the Seriptares to ~heir own.destruction and that
of others;-'but shall .the ·Scripture. .not be preached ?
A pur~it, too, like tnesmerism, .wh.icb, .eo far from
conc;lucting .t;o. gaia. or glory, subjeCta .iss votaries to a
epeeies of,martyrdom, holds out but few temptations
to the ·base; min9ed. .Besides, .the fault rests wi.th
mesmeric patients themselves, if tbey give up their
powers : Qf self--control . to ,·eV:i~. or. even doubtful,
gu-ce; :or, indeed;.,to any foreign guidance what-
ever, .unless.,before proper witnesses. .
·. Exercised judiciously, .there is not a. doubt that
mesmeriam.might. be mad(! an important .instrument
I 4
}76 f4i;&MER,IC, SLEEl''lff4~G,.
qf,moml gpod. tp,1~.s~~~ ~..np~ qn~y tends natu-
rally fR..e~* we..,m~ ~f~,~~ueJ.. ~-e~ ~d
~i~,.oW~rfpt;,._,tq~,.#frieJ>eing,..pu,t, er.er.t.~tpr
i~.. ~l!lrq~ia~ .~~e.~-..passed. aw8f•.,.,A..raes-
~~.risw.~,~lway,.s w. st.r1'!n~~.the vi.r.tU9qs,teJ;J.den-
ci~>'9ev~qped bJ;:~* .pl!.tienti in ~~pwakiP,g, Ill to
~~ong ~' ~ i~;w~into,the ;~vakings~te., Often
h~U~ ,~,>~ ~ ~ ~tr~t.eij..jiJle,. w~en I ..have: g~v~n him
goocJ~~v_~~Jn. ,pupJ;te$~1'!J"ie sleep,_ ~.impr~, . it in
s"ch ~UWH)D.er, u~1hi!i.f1Pnd as thilt it might. influ-
eu,s:e hlm, ~':~ . tbp."gh J.~perc~ptibly, w~ a~e.
¥,or.~r~:r:,. i,t ~ a ~~r;iou:s .P.lc~ that, if,the. J:D~eriser
~u- J.W; patiem,to ~tainJrpm any.thing .at a. ®ttain
tilp¢-:-:\ev~,.fl;o~: t,bM qf..whi~}l.1 he may be ~t
fopd -T.!the.; :la\~.-l'tc~ ~n the injuncti~q, ~ ~­
Jt~t¥.r..l :s~te, ,withop~, beh,lg ~wiP'e,, of .the ~tprings
tbaUr,uP.El~.hi& C9~~tJpt. l'o ~t benefic::ial pses this,
peculiar influence might be renslere~ _subservi~.t.. l1
need..not sugge.£!~ ;,.J~9.r, hQ~ ~lWly it might wean
PfJ;'SOU.S frqm ~ ht\'b~ts, l:>y r~J;l<lering them positively
a.v~se .:to tP:«r. sin~ ,tAAJ; ·~~t ~ijy beset them.,
, '.fhat.a pr.oP,Qr\iornU>le ~crease of the intellectual
powers ~ho.u.\d ~comJN.~.Uy so ~ark~d a dev~lopement
of!}l~ mqra} wU~ . ,no~ •seem surprising, if we. r~flect
that every,~ulty ,of_.t;)pr being plays, as _
it wer.e, into
the bands. pf the..otP,er ; .~Jld that a rise in moral
feeling a.hno.st pfeslq)pos~s a rise in intellectual dig-
nity. If it..b~ g.:~.ted that." want of decency is warit
of sense,'' it may..also be conceded that a want of
moral perceptions generally is the produce and
accompaniment of a degraded intellect. The in~
M'!!MtJt'lt' ~LtEt>\fAitiNG. 177
~edl~eetity 1VUicli pe\'Sbns1trtanifust ·in themes·
meri6'•re·W6t1ld ttlon~'proWo\n\etdt t'h'e parel\t of a
qni~ker.ied· ~n~'1•·T'b~ pere~ive illlthe'irrationality
of f8J.~ooa~· 11'0flreti'jlrbb'&, ·h'Oite~r, 'i>f the sleep-
w~~ ad~ance·iit' in~1~~11\re lJy no'fu&rl~wanting•
..J ~ ~·~ii! ~'d~~ 1su~j~' which' .ir1 .·the waking
state~)arelfir:~M··~·scotk ·of'1his tiapacitj, and
8olve'qri~dii!''whic'B'''Ii.t··'61:'1kr:'tin1~, are to hiin as
an \inklio+ii·ttmg\leo • I· 'dli~ed"thiii ·especially in
tht!l!~;.;bf E. 1A~!'i"Hit''hab1tual' Cbhftision: of
tllongP!t :.wa8'1ch~;·dtiririg•:sli=!epwaking, into just-
~Jnf~~r~~~oii·~lt6'fudaJge·in abstract~pectil~..
ti'onitrerem£alliibst:lijfeat\ih!'df1hiSeonditi'on; <-QtJ.d'he
di!~ay~ itt'this:ije~JOperhent of 1ti$'i\kt~~ a pe~u..
lila alcuteileiiS'-bF'remaHt''WMch·looied'like intuitive
sa:ga~. JtJiel'1appi-elitmd~ 'witlr';e'l:ise, and learnt
wi\1& ~cJfiickries&~· ·A.i tririt 'Whs suflidierit· tb put him·in
~~idii'tifa ~j'&t:· '. ·" ··: .. '' ····· "';;. · ·.
·.
'Buire•.i$; esp&cltiUy -by the1irilproved-o~ondition 'of
the trletitnrj;'1tx ·
tl*1mtisilieri'c·~tititt; ' tritlt the ·general
strengtheitmg &thb irtt~l~ti~l :ptiwera~ mil~ he esti~
mated'.; ~··IF6r'~ not,'''ih' 'ti'iit:h;''irlt!ib'Otjt ·'ttle life''and
l;reJttti of!'tlittntixid;'Withdut lffiosti· qifrcklfflihg inspi-
ratl~ all'thee~€ilt;~fdf"tliihldng'VierJ!bu't'd~,so much
d!f'dt1St r II IS'it'rlbt' bar1tlenb'ty' wM~h;;l'inUs eveiy
miit·Wiie~ -we :h~te1 1:leeri 'c&icerhed)"ev~ frag-
~t 'M'lCtioWlM!le-atiWbf' m~ 'fNmri~'which has
.Lo . o
cbril'e to 'Us"ertiler frutil ·thtf1
Htel'ntifhvorld 'or the
tiilivells'e df out~o#ihn'fii&, fnto'~fflle lliitmtmious' and
ilitenigilni.(whole? -It N'1
frue't'h.at'-meiildrf';"without
th~ reasoning fucultie~ Wete but a ·vain gift; but it
I 5
118 l\IEIMBR1C '8li&EPW4i~ ·
is equaliJ' -true .that; wit.Mut memory, all the fatoltiet ·
· in·which• .,.,ie glory"were ·enti~ worthless. · Their
sirbplestl.'e1erciee presuppotee"its abiding·•presence.
I~ iu:be·.measure ofour attention, t*S attention itself is
the\meallure ·of the.min'd'a strength bt':weakness. .··.
::''nlat ~ tbia important' pc»Wer .mlargely deVeloped
\HldeNihesmme eleepwa'ldng i. a fact· ·to· 'Which pat"'
~·-ntion.,should.be ·gi'Yen·r sitt~·'it explains,.
in a' nMniial wa~ certain phenomena ,which too many
Ofth6mends ofmesmerism· wonder· over as miraeu.-
~!'lmd which, eoilseqUently, MO·mlany of its ad~
ariU·lJejeet as· false. • ]{{)w.·niuobdllijury this present-
atiohiof •startling; ;eir<!lliRBtaooes,:Ju:baceompanied ·by
any ra.tioDaltolutiOn,; baaJCaUJed.to melll'lerism may
00-:estimated,by a comparia.a of, the reoeptiott gi.an
to.a .futvwhEid ratiaaally set fOrth ·by;-a· philosopher,
wi\h:,thaJt·which. it·l'e<leive! when.:wildly ~tatedi by
an "'ehtbusiast. Many. of· the,iatories ..to}d. by the
jijdlcious,·•and·r.fr&Jlkly accepted..by the world in
general, are.eveary whtt as "WOnderful as 'the tales of
•mesmeriodaizwt,O!Jtuf.C8 which flO, shook· the. incredg.
lOU&9.,...,bnt tben•tbey are ·.otherwise presented, and
charm us by being seen through the clear glase of
·.~ instead of coming tofus c0loured by the
CJatJtle,.Lorraine' ·medium' oF. the imagination. A
j!Foof of: this aseertion may. -be found in..the high
estimation which Dr. AH:rorombie's, work· -on the
:Intellectual · Powers eo justly enjoys. The work
itse1£·ia full of mte.resting and remarkable anecdotes,
niany of them especially relating to auto..aleepwaking
- ye.t who dreams of doubting these ? And why?
'They ate .na~y and philoaopbicall1·treated..,..For:
ituance : -!he author Jelatee flhat ,a; girl, who;wae
coostitutionally, a. sleepwalk~r. .isnorant, and .of tho
lowest:rank• f~has-heen known ro. conjugate correCtly
Latin •erbs. rNt.Wu/at:hoJ probabi!J.heard iA the- ~l
rD11'/116'f#-dte.fo.tiJil!N and the.wa onqa heard.to .speak
several.enteDCeS v.ery ool'J'eetly i~ Freneh ; at the ~ame
M8~tJUJt,.M hetmJ.thewafrom.iiftmigngeatlMnM.
~ ik6 had.met.C'I#Jidmlolly·ilta.shop.'' ,Now, con-
eeivethe atomy to have been,told·without the aenteucet
whicla-I1Jave,marlr.ec1by italioa, and the mere workings
ef IDelf\Ory:are,tqrth.with maffnified into·amiJ:'aCulous
giftof tongues; which we:regard -with quite otherfe&r
iugs than·the·present.eautious, and :inetrootive.··Jtate-
11181i1). We qannot, then, ~tooguarded·in ollt'viewsof
~facaltiesdis~yed by sleepwalK'S. The leaathint·of
a thing,:pretiously heard and forgotteu :while .awake,
lrill serve the~·in· the · meamecic. ;gtate, a&-!a· ulue .to
bunriedgedmt~U seem:suptrnatur&l.; ·but a: little
·investigation.willoften clear.up;·the apparent Jniracle;
and the principle; once ~rtained; ·may·be extended
even. ·t:81 eases which · baftle OUI'· moat aoourate .re-
leal'Ch'. '· . :'•· ,.., .: ·I t•
· The memory ofAnna M- was much developed
during• mesmeric sleepwaking. All the·reminiscences
ofheo childish. years seemed to reeur to ·her mind;
and thence she,was enabled to show. an -acquaintance
with the past histories ofthe inhabitants of her ·native
town,-whlch,·in pzimitive times, would have- been by
no.means to her advantage. Under James the First
abe would infallibly have been burnt f~r a witch.
I 6
18() M.EntERIC ·SLEEP\f<A'KIN&~
Often,- in her :mesmeric .state, !she ·recalkd. to. the
:minds of·penona, •whe hwhperhaps·fongotten . that
they,flad evet· snn her,·p8l'tieular.:,oircumstancee, witAI
\Vhich they imagined none bbt ..themselves;·eoWd.:be
acquainfud. .On ODe occuipniespeciallyt, I remember
a·person.entleri1J81the,room-whimshe Ylas in mesmeric
sleepwaking.~.had ber•eyes •penectly closed•··· Hie
nittne waar·DOtl mehtibnedJ but, having been placed
"en rappoJ't~t :wi.tJ!' ;him,_• tllheorecognised h~ by tk
~ice. alons, aB81l•indWidual wbomJshe had knGwn· in
her.very,~aatly drildhoad~~~but;had not met.with-.since.
She named him,tand brCDUghtibackto= his li'eeollection
manyo.minutetpartieuian.J!!elating to his famil)hand
to himself. •.Oli!.Awaking; she was. much,surprised·.to
see another person added to our party, and could by
n()effortofmemoryt(eTen after,he·had spoken~~make
him:appear othel' than>
a;pet·fect·stranger to -
.her... .It
was not until1he·,bad,deelated,himself, and, on his
part, recalled to her sundry circumstances, .that she
could remembe~ .even to have seen him. Yet, even
then, the ·g~~eater part of.the particulars, with :which
in mesmerism .sb~seemed so .frilly acquainted, could
by.no means be.restored to her. remembrance.
tAnother time;•the same.sleepwaker, being asked to
write some ,Flemish poetry from memory,_ noted down
with a penciLtwo•,JineB,. which, on awaking · (though
we told her the first words of the distich), she could
not repeat. Being, shown the lines, she at :length
recognised, bytheir general sense, somethingwhichshe
had heard as a child. In mesmeric sleepwaking, Anna
·M- displayed.a greater aptitude to learn than in
MMJ&I'AliO ·SLBE~A.IItNI/. 181
her ftkint-JState•·-•1 had.oniy l'eeited •tol hen•a·'little
poem ·of;Gel!d8mitP'8,; beglmii~ fl Obrml!~ol'ly flthau
i'mlt decei"~~:en/!, tWice'1over.;..:when •she •was 1-.lr.y
, ab1eto r.epeat1t·oo11rectly•. ,, :1 ;.._,,,r:.! ··::; r.·" .... ·· ·
··&··At....-+ ~eSjted: a·similar, mcr&ise lof•mental .
retentivaes8,~rei remlirkabl~pettuq,il' inasmuch as
his merhoryl·(~brefrom negleet,: Hmaginet•thtm·from
·uaQ~tQl rincapacit>y)! was: aingulmly:•·defectiv0. ·· We
~:ve·,trieei · him-•in··mesmaric:·sieepwaking"Fith rthe
h&r~ phmsels·and• .teebnicalf ·eMpressions which the
English·tongue :(of which.•h knew• ~ry :Jitdeo)•·eottld
fumishl; and;-•~ one•ocicaSicm;•a sentlemiui;- •
who had
trave~ed: m the East;·supplied··him w¢h adong·and
st:railge ·Turkish·word,- which.he;caught!directly·with
the!gre&.teet•eas~r~·;q ·: :r ·· o! f, ·!;•: .,,,,.,·'I 'J ,,, ...
• This sleep.waker.playedbeaotifully on the•fiute; and
was a~stomed•often : to• improv.ise upon·that.instru•
ment: with· >all the mdsibah:gerii'UIJ::that the· .possessed;
but the' ch&l'ming:.strain, -onee.::uttered, twas lost fur
ever, .•He could not ·repeat -one' «~f• ftis, extempore
composi.ions. ,Qne·day,·I: had been forcecho·reprove
him .for ~orne-fflult, when, taking his flute.,..:be. poured
forth somemelancholy notes· which seemed·to·express
regret;'6lld •peni.tenbe. •;·1·.begged •·him 'to' repeat the
touebing air,'l>utllit had·whoJly,tpasaed• from•·his re-
m$111bl1WlQCJ' Subsequently; when:he was:ittmesmerie
sleepwaking,-:it•- occotred !to me·UI ask ·ltim if he
coold then write-down the compositionrthat ·so much
pleased me. lnstantly he·,seized· mUsic-paper and
a pen, and .wrote down the air which I here sub-
join, and which, as far as my own memory can deter-
t82" QSHER.IC SLEEPWAlUN~
mine, is p~y the 18Dle as that wbi~h .1 bad heard·
tw~ <lay!t':befor~>4
~ . . . · POUR LA. FLUTE.
~(S;;f(ftee~l.'llf11S'G'~trf1
,,ttmif&l!j@fitb
· ··· · J=- ... f==- I > > > >
~·Z@jb~gu4 JD1Wt8
·•·.'t!)ho.· f · = · "' ·
_
..f'!/! .. . ·' '• ·, ; ··' .
lr.·ffijiJ JJlt'fr.ftflir·etti
• .~ ; . ~ 'I ' ' :' , • ' • ' . I
MUMERIC BLBEPWAKIN&;.- ISS'
' Another proof of increased memory given by this•
aleepwaker. was his comprehending and speaking
English (which o~'Y~e he was r:emarkably slow to
learn) far better in the mesmeric than in the natural
at&te. ' ' .
-•- A;.~citclnU~nce..to be rem•k~ as showing a
conneetion betWeen the mesmeric and the common-
sleep, ie tb~ 7.~l~pwakers will ~~ember those noc•
.-al· dreamS 'Yllich they cati .by no means recaU
?r~.waking. I one~ aske4 Anna M~-if shecoul~
recollect any thing iri sleepWilking which, out of it;
abe had forgotten. · She replied, " Certainly, ·many
thi,pgt~; and j.ust now .I .clearly remember something
wtych:I ~iib.ed to E~llect-when I was awake, but.
Coutd not. It is a dreaftl.which I had on .Sunday.
Right. (She said this on Wednesday, 14th February,
1838.) I screamed ~ut in my sleep, and alarmed
~· ~othet; btit l could not call tp thlnd what I W
~ di-eamirig abOut : now, hOwever, · I know what
it was. I thought that a very frightful old woman
entered the room : she 'Y~ dressed in scarlet, and
~ a white fiJiet bound across h~r·forehead. She
~~\io~ly in, and, ~ming up to ine i~ bffi, laid
her hand upon my chest. I tried to scream, but
could;not.: .at last, however, I screamed, and woke
my::mother."'.. .A.fterwarda, when the sleepwaker had
retUrned tO her natural stat~ ' she ,.I!S.questioned
about the dream ; but it had again past from her
memory. Wishing to establish the circumstance
by as much .evidence as possibl~ l took an op.o
portunity of •feaking to her mOther on the subject,
184: MESMl':RIC SLl':EPWAXING.
when the latter cmoborated' an thal: Anna had
affinned~: ·~na ·adde(l that her' danghter was-•rn the ·
habit of .relliting her .dreams:t'o· her family at break-
fast ; ·but of tllfs pattieular 6ne she hid been·able tO
give no aC'~ounC' :.,.! r .,,. : : · . • · '' : · '. ' • ·
E. A:'could al~o, ir1sleepwaldng, ·recall'the visitltts
of the night, which had gone from.'-liini as the' dream
from 'the Baliytoniab: inonarch. ':Mbteo'ter, ·}i~ 'had
been, ·as a clu1CI; '8: ' natural sleepwiike'r, ''rimFbe ·
assureli me, wlien in ·~he me$meric 'stare~· tliat all'tbe'
minutest' cireuttlstanc~~: . of 'his ~rly ·sieepwtddng··
recurred .to him.' ' Wli~ti &liked ·if· the :rtiihd ' 6ert
ceased 1 t~ think ·iti 'shimber, lieiJkpfied; "'Ne~ ffir
an inru.'ri'ftihe soul iS'wisetilndiedfris much durlttg'
sl~p>< ~t'reflectliIdiCanI:it has 'set!n. iih'd h~rd,'~
pr~fit.S inor~· \)y this' thah1 in t'he·daytime.'· ·We·can-
not, hide~, be aware' 'of thisd>ecause .:We 'ate itt it
diff'erent 'state when waking; and; lOrget"whai" W'e
think of by rl~~h't. Yet; he·con'tinued, have yoiU rtot
remarked that, if you read a .thing oVefi.:night, '1
yod.-
remember it better on awaking the next morning?
This is the ftui't''of'the sow's labour (c'est le"'f'ruit du
travail de·rame);'iht>ugh 'we"do n'Ot kriow''wh(m~e it
comes/' ·'Asked ·~g~in about dreams, lie repli~
"In,' general they are ·akind of tecreation· or:the
sour; an :exerCise of its inventive facultf ~ 'but 'we ate
only''~cquainted' with the results. · ·As 'a! carpmwr ·
takes 'a tree 'and ~ saws it' 'iritb boards, and theti &Om
those boafds constnlcts something which he ' lia~
previously determined, so the soul arrangt'S the
mechanism of the brain to form a dream ; .;,_ and
M&SJri~RIC SLEEPWAKING. 185
the dream 1
i~ wpich we imagine to last a long
tiJne, pas§eB, in f~Wt, with, inco.nceiv~ble rapidity. It
only p~upies t\l'e..,D;JPmen.t ~m~iat~ly previous to
our .yv~king. Other;. dreams, again, ar~, as it were,
fOrced upon the soul by something disordered in the
b~: but they all ~~ in this~ they immediately
precede our wakipg~',' . . , . ~ . . , :.
.j J'elate the. a~Ye, as .,curi<?usly consone.nt with a .
circumstance in the lif~ of Lavalette. He had in
prison a ho.rrible dream, in whi~ ~e .saw aP, infernal
procession pass by his ceil. Whole armie~ see~ed.to
defile ~fore him ; but. tlte rid~nt ,wer~ all skeletons,
and 'tl?.e, horsea, s4'ipp~ of. tJ1eir skit;\5, presented a
~ of ,:raw anli :bleeding flesh. A,. ~lanking of
ebaiJ:ls.a(!CompBPied ~he terrifie vi,si~m, ;~·hich seemed
to be.of infinite dqtlltion. He ~as aw~ened by the
gaoler Elnteri.ng his dungeon,·when he found that the
dream, 1fhich, had'been. IUl ." eternity to though~".
W8$, in real,ity, the .iptpression Qf a moment, caused
by the dropping of.~e chains in. \lllf~tening his
door.. .. ..., . . , .
The ~~~ phenomenon of memory, which may here.
bementionedas regardingthe.aleepwakeralone,isthat,
when the mesmeric sleep· ia·perfect, th~·subsequent
oblivion is perfect too. Of the truth .~f this fact, it
has been generally assertOO, ~t there is no other
assurance than the all~gations of the sleepwakers
themselves. I cannot concede this point. Place a
mesmeric patient unde1· circumsta~ces diff~rent to
those in which he went to sleep, but without hinting
Pat you expect any display of surpris~ on his part,
186 HESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
and he must be shrewd indeed, ·as well.as a consum.:.·
ate. aetor, if he can counterfeit to the life such an as-
tonishment on waking--as he must exhibit naturally,·
supposing him really to ·have forgotten the events of
hiS sleepwaking. ·Mademoiselle M~ under cir-_
~mstanees the more relll817bble;' because not at all
arranged for t\le specific purpose, was orree evidently
almost alarmed into illness ·by finding herself in a
different apartment (whither, itmay.be remembered,.
she had.-been brought to see an :invalid lady) from.
that in,·which she had been mesmerised. She start-'
ed, shuddered, looked wildly arowtd bel', ~}aim­
ing, " Good God J what ia tbia ? How. did I come-
here?· T:his is .too much ; ~, and was thrown in~
a fit of. trembling which we had ·much difficulty ~~
allay. . ,.,.
. Again, supposing a sleepwaker to be under ·~
same roaf with yourself:, his meameriser, and exposed'
to your constant observation, the chances are that. if
he feigns, he will sometimes be caught tripping. . A
deceiver cannot be always on· his guard; and what a
power. of memory.does it presuppose in the nctitious
sleepwaker to imagine that he can arrange ,and
separate in his own mind thos~ circumstances oi
which he may or may not speak ! · Passing a great
portion· of his · time in sleepw~ing. will it not be
difficult, nay impossible, for him never to advert to
that which has engaged his attention so much and
has formed, indeed, half his life·? I conceive, then;
that when I assert. that, during four months, E•.A,
was staying ip o;Jy house, and constant!~ mesmer~
M-ESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 187
.by myself, with the eyes .of a whole family placed in
guard upon him, yet that never, in a single in•
stance, he was known to mingle his mesmeric with hiS
ordinary existence by word or action, I do, in fact,-
show that the assertioas.of eleepwakers, are pot the
sole evidence that they·actually forget the occurrences
of their mesmeric·state. ·We have tried im every pos-
sible W&y to put this to the test;· we· have plotted
against the·sleepwaker, as it; indeed, we had wished to
cOnvict .mm of imposition on this point ; we have
laid traps fot him ·in conversation ; but the most
searching ordeal ·Only S~ to convince ·US of his
sincerity. . Be i it observed, ·moreover, that, in his
meamerie stilte, I conversed with him frequently on
subjects which~ he was incapable· of discussing in his
waking hours, and that, after the sleepwaking was
pat, I found him, with respect to the same subjects,
8S' unenlightened as ever. Now I know from his
cha.ra.der:;that, bad ·be retained any. little pieee of
ibformation acqni•ed in his mesmeric state, he could.
not ·have·'l'esUted the temptation of displaying it, at·
at:me time··Ot" other, for .our edification and astonish-
ment. · ·What adds to the probability of tliis is that,
biB c~ry being in some respects defective, he
would often retail to persons the very story, or the
very·bit of:knowledge; which he ·had learned from
themselveBt·;with a perfect unconsciousness that he
Wb only giTing back a man·his own. Besides, he
talktd much ·and reflected little ; so that, had ~
wished tO feign oblivion of his mesmeric state, every
~ waa against the success of his.attempt. Surely
188 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
all these proofs presumptive (on,which I have dwelt
the more, because.arguments of this nature seem
hitherto to ltave been withheld) amount nearly to
proof positive that· sleepwaking has its own memory
and its own consciousness; ·•hieh do not overpass the
boundaries of its duratioll. ,;.
The fact that, under peculiar conditions, we may
enjoy the exercise of all our faculties; yet retain no
recollection of having don~ so, may be applied; as I
imagine, to the solution of many curious questions in
metaphysics- such as, t)lat one of.Locke's, "Wh~
ther the soul thinks alway• ?'! which that great
philosopher has decided in the negative, on the
ground that after~onsciO'Usness is the s61e testimony
we can have of the mind's activity; and that, sincewe
are by no means conscious that we thinkalways, we
ought not to assume that we do think always. "I But
in some eases, and most especially in that of mes•
merle sleepwaking, we are forced to admit, for the
activity of our lhind~ an··evidence which Locke bas
omitted to notice; namely, the testimony of our
fellow-beings (a testimony, indeed, on which we build
halfour knowledge), assuring us that the state which,
once ended, appears a blank to us, was marked by
energy and activity of the highest order. ·Hence,
setting aside our own want of memory of our past
intelligence, as an inadequate proof that such intelli-
ligence never existed, we manifestly arrive at a pr~
aumption that what we have forgotten in one case we
may have forgotten in manimore; and that the mind
is probably always active, though we cannot always
QSMERIC SLEEPW.A~ING. 189
-~re o~lves of. its activity. Such a probability
will. b4l- ~uliarly grateful..
to:those who deem that
icl~ ,~~.r,e co~at.itut.iv'- of. the mind, and that Locke
wea.~~llW.lly ;wrong when.he ealled "thinking
the Mtion and no~ the essence ofthe soul ;" being so
far misled, by a false analogy between things material
w:acjl tbjn~ spiri~al, ~ to.conceive " that the per-
~P~AA- ,Qf i4easjs to the soul what motion is to the
~y.'~. -- ':f,bey,wh9.would ~0.~ .
"lose,
··d 1; Thougti full of paitr,'this intellectUal being,
~.. Tbl.se thoughts tba't w~der through eternity,"
, It . • '..1~.: .....
J~l.\fRP.beJ.\eYe. that to, ~Me tp think is to cease•to
b., xn-ust.r~i~nin AIL th,atteA<Is to prove the conti-
JWity, pf ..
thqqgbt,. i~. \lnceasing. and inexpressible
~vity., .lt is. alSQ r.emarka.ble th4t the state of mes-
~c. sl~wak.iqg1, though· one of oblivion, lP.aves
alw&J.S, ~ l;~ve,o~"-e~ a sort of agreeable savour
pn· t\l~...IJlmd, which .renders persons of every age,
~x, and t~perament, desirousto enter it again. It
~:-llPPI\t&r~ to me aJ if the soul rejoiced in it, as in
an ,~mep,t., to :whi~h it was " native and endued," and
~erly. purs\led it, as a foretaste:of its development
through eternity. We m.igbt also enter upon some
~ions. speculations, suggested by this severing of
~n~s ; -this forgetfulness in one state of that
which w.e ha!'t'e done -in. another. It is an answer to
our inquiry, whether Lazarus, when l'estored to the
body, brought back with him the secrets of another
world; it le~ds us to conjecture that they, who have
'190 .KESMEftiC SI;EEPWAKING.
seemed dead, yet hav.e been recalled to this morbid
existence, may have visited the world of shadows,
although they know it not.• It makes the river Lethe
seem no fable, and half realises to us the inspired
words of the poet: -
"Our birth is.but a sleep and a forgetting ;
The soul, that rises with us, our life's star,
· lll!th h~ elsewhere its setting,
And cometh from afar."
In a practically religious point ofview, also, the phe-
nomena regarding memory, under mesmeric sleep-
waking, are full of instruction. The prodigious in-
crease in this state of the recollective powers seeins ro
indicate that, in our normal existence, they are but
partially developed; and that hence the moralist's
suggestion, that all our lives, with all their good and
evil, will, in some future era of being, be spread ,
before us as an open scroll, is not to be slighted as a
fiction, buttobe dulyregardedasa probability,ofwhich
we have the presumptive evidence in our own hands.
I proceed to speak of phenomena of memory in the
sleepwaker, resulting from the mesmeriser's influence.
lst. Strange and inexplicable as the fact may
seem, it is undoubtedly true that the mesmeriser bas
the power· of impressing some · things upon the
memory of his patient, in such a manner as that the
latter shall retain them, and them alone, on awakh1g.
• I have a relation who lay for twenty-four hours in a state
of seeming death, and who was wept for as dead.
JIESMEILIC. 8LEEPWAKING. .19}
:rhus, at my desire, E. A. used to remember English
_
words which I hadtaught him during his sleepwaking.
Persons who were present when be was .mesmerised
·would amuse themselves by proposing to him, through
me, words the most difficult for a foreigner to pro-
nounce ; such, for instance, as "boatswain's whistle,"
which a gentleman one day gave him as'a puzzle, yet
.which he repeated correctly, and retained after his
sleepwaking. Anna M. when mesmerised, if asked
to remember anything, used to tap her forehead on
either side, just where she had two singular promi-
nencies, and say, " I will do my best to fix it in my
brain." . After this she always recollected what she
had been desired to retain. I did not find, however,
this faculty extend.to circumstances connected with
the unusual mode of sensation apparently opened to
sleepwakers. Ev~n if so requested, neither E. A. nor
Anna M. could give any account, on awaking, of their
perceptions during mesmerism, nor how objects were
presented to their minds. The subjects adapted to
their after-memory seemed to be chiefly o~ a verbal
nature, such as a few lines of poetry, or the par-
ticular ,day fixed for a subsequent mesmerisation.
This possibility of making sleepwakers remember
what they have learned in the mesmeric state (and
learned, too, with superior ease and quickness) might,
I imagine, be turned to important uses. I have read,
though where I have forgotten, of a lady who ac-
qUired a newlanguage through mesmeric recollection ;
and my experience inclines me to believe that such
might be the case.
192 MESMERIC 8LEI4PWUIN~
2dly. The mesmeriser, by the expression ofhis de-
sire, can make the patient remembercertain things at
a particular ·time, subsequent to sleepwaking, and
not till the very moment fixed beforehand for the
recurrence ofthe suspended recollection.
Thus E. A., in mesmerism, was told to remember,
at Qine the following morning, and not till then, that
he should come to fetch one of our party to hear a
beautiful mass that was to be:performed in a church
at Antwerp. The person with whom he lodged, and
in whose room he slept, informed me subsequently
that, when the clock struck nine, E. A. was in bed,
when suddenly he started up, saying, "It is very
odd ; but I seem to remember that l am to take
Mrs. - to church." He the11 dressed quickly, and
came to fulfil his engagement. I asked him in what
manner the idea .had recurred to his mind, if it was
like the recollection of something heard in a dream?
He replied that it did .not re8emble this. in the least,
but was a very curious and indescribable sensation, as
ifa thought flitted past him from he knew not where,
and fled again so rapidly that to .trace its origin was
impossible. In sleepwaking he could ·not give me a
much better account of the phenomenon. It was,
he said, a something pre-arranged in the mechan-
ism of the. brain, and which, like the spring of ·a
watch, was set in motion at a given moment. There
was nothing very satisfactory in this explanation. As
to the phenomenon itself, I and the members of my
family have witnessed it again and again. We have
tried it in minute circumstances, difficult of remem-
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 193
brance, such as (on the day succeeding the sleep-
waking) to sit·in a particular chair, or begin with a
particular dish at dinner; to cut'· a potato, .when .
first taken on the plat~·into fourpieces, &c.; and the
result was always= sl\tiM"actory. I hav~ also:tried if
the circumstanees~ deSired w be· remembered, could
be recalled to the sleepwaker be~e the proper hour ;
but there was evidently no meam of doing so. The
very first time J told Anna M:to retnember anything
at a fixed hour, I desir~ her tO ·call to mind, at three
the following day, that '&he must ask one of our party
tp takE! a·walk~ After her awaking, some one inad-
vertently said,!'' I><Y you remember any thing about
coming. to-morrow to ·
,walk· with us ?, She said,
after reflection; '" No{ 'indeed, I remember nothing
about that; and besides I have.·an engagement for
to-morrow." ·Soon aftet' three,' however,· the next
day, Anna appeared-: out of breath, and with a face
of wonder, exclaiming,' " Do tell the ; ·was I to come
here or not?" She then related that she had been
out to dinner, ·and that, in the midst ·of that meal,
something seemed to ten her that she had promised
to come to us ; and that, such waa the force of the im-
pression, she eould not help 'leaving her party and
hastening to.ascertain. the truth fi·om ourselves.
Having now described in what manner the memory
is affected in .the mesmeric sleep,' both as regards its
spontaneous exercise and ·its direction through the
mesmeriser, I proceed to state other remarkable
peculiarities in the metaphysical condition of mes-
meric patients, without adverting to .which my view
It .
...
) 94 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
of mesmeric sleepwaking, as a condition of man,
would be incomplete.
The peculiarities alluded to regard the action of
the whole mind of the sleepwaker, and not of any
particular faculty. They may all be ranged under
two heads:-
lst, With respect to the patient himself. These
are peculiarities of consciousness.
2ndly, Of will, resulting·from the patient's relation
to the mesmeriser.
The peculiarities of mesmeric consciousness will be
treated of in the succeedingbook, as being explanatory
of inany circumstances connected with our subject.
The peculiarities of mesmeric will may be expressed
briefly thus ~-That lower degree ofwill whichwe call
volition, and which chiefly regulates the motive func-
tions, is active, but will (in its freedom and absolute
sense) is passive, in the sleepwaker, through the influ-
ence of the mesmeriser.
The motory adroitness of persons in the mesmeric
state proves the first part of my assertion. The second
branch of it is susceptible of equal demonstration, as
the following reflections must render evident.
Common sleep, it will be granted, is the indication
ofan abjured will- voluntariJy abjured, it is true, in
some cases ; but, in others, suffering a forced abdica-
tion, as when the sentinel, who knows that, if found
slumbering on his post, his very life must pay the
penalty, is vanquished by the slumber he would shun.
In sleep itself, also, we are no longer our own masters,
but at the mercy of our dreams•
MESMERIC SLEEPW.AIUNG,
" Reason then retires
Into her private cell, when Nature rests.
Oft, in her absence, mimic Fancy wakes
To imitate her; but, misjoioing shapes,
Wild work produces oft."
195
In this state we seem to commit crimes which,
waking, we regard with abhorrence; and often the
impotence of our will is shown by an utter inability
to throw off the yoke that oppresses us. We would
wake:- but cannot: we strive to cry- but we
find no voice: we endeavour to move our limbs -
but they remain idle.
If common sleep, then, be so manifestly the index
of a suspended will, the mesmeric slumber is not less
clearly an indication of a will that is over-ruled and
held in abeyance by a force that is external to itself.
The proof is simple. Tbe mesmeric sleepwaker can-
not awake without the mesmeriser's aid. The sub.
jugation of his will is, therefore, even more complete
than under the condition of common sleep ; for, after
certain efforts we often succeed in throwing off the
latter when it becomes disagreeable to us, or the
casual touch of any one who witnesses our perturbed
slumber may recal us to ourselves; but the mesmeric
patient can neither throw off his bonds, nor be de-
livered from them by any other than the mesmer-
iser. I have seen such efforts vainly made to arouse
a sleepwaker otherwise than by the mesmeriser, that
I have been led to conceive that he might be tom
limb from limb (as certain animals may be in certain
atates of torpor) without awaking. As with themes-
K 2'
196 MESMERIC SLI;EPWA.JUNG.
meriser his sleep began, so, it appears, by the mes.
meriser alone it can end; and thus the peculiar slum-
ber, called mesmeric, is not only the proof of a sus-
pended will, but of a will subdued, and actually held
subject, by another.
But it is not only the duration of the mesmeric
sleep which proves this predominance of a foreign
will : the conduct ·of the sleepwaker, while it lasts,
is an additional warranty that the rudder of his
being having changed masters, the whole vessel is
also under another's direction. At the command of the
mesmeriser he walks when he would naturally repose,
and brings his faculties to bear upon any .point, at a
moment when otherwise he seems powerless to exer-
cise them.
Summing up the evidence, we find the argument
run thus:- ·
Natural sleep is the indication of a suspended will.
A·sleep that begins and ends by another must be
·allowed to show a will that is held in abeyance by
external agency.
A sleep, during which a person is made to act by
another, demonstrates a will that is swayed by that
other in precise proportion as the obedience is prompt
.and absolute.
The state of things resulting from this sway on the
oneside and submissionon theotheris mostremarkable.
We have the phenomenon before us of an existence at
once dual and single; for,.when, the sleepwaker's .ca-
pacities are acting under the immediate direction of
.the mesmeriser, the latter may be considered as
MESMERIC SLEEPWAltJNG. 197
making up together· with him the complement of one
full being, whereofthe mesmeriser supplies the willing
and the conscious portion, and the patient the intel-
lectuill part. · The·one impels, the other obeys im-
pulsion : the one designs, the other executes : the
one sets in motion a machine, (and what a machine!
the mind of man, with all its complicated marvels ! )
the other is the machine itself, instinct with life, as w~
the fiery car of Kehama, innately active, yet guided
by the volition of another 1
This is no poetic fiction. The facts are before us.
·The volition ofa sleepwaker is swayed in an arbitrary
fashion, fully to conceive which, we have only to con-
sider the difference betWeen the mesmeric subjugation
of the will, and any other that occurs in our ordinary
state·of existence. I may tell my servant to do such
or such a thing. When he obeys, it may be sa:id, in
a certain sense, that his will is subject to mine ; yet,
all the time, he dOes actually retain the functions of
hisown will in perfection. In truth, he wills as much as
I do, and on the same principles : good to be sought,
uneasiness to be shunned, is the efficient .cause of
volition in either case. I command ; his mind, witb
rapidity, strikes a balance with itself, and finds it
better to obey. If, however, the balance should in-
cline to the other side, my servant has it in his power
to disobey, and to manifest that his will is in free and
unimpaired operation. Moreover, he may obey me
from fear, and not by any means from desire, or
identity of his will with mine. I sway the outward
and not the inwaro man• .But, in mesmerism,
K3
}98 M.ESMERIC SLEEPWA.KING,
it is not only the manifestation, but the very
function of the will which is dominated. It can-
not, if it would, rise to freedom : it is under a
more than moral restraint. Its motive force, desire,
is evidently changed, since, as I have shown, the
sleepwaker adopts, pro tempore, the likings and dis-
likings of the mesmeriser. Hence, when the patient
is engaged in an act of obedience, there is an identi-
fication between the mesmeriser's will and his own ;
a phenomenon which can never obtain in the case of
simple obedience. The inner springs are touched,
and not the mere mechanism swayed.
Such a view of the state of mesmeric sleepwaking
may seem unpleasing, and incompatible with its being
a r.ise in man's condition; but, let it be remembered,
we do not rob the soul of any one faculty, we·only
change its mode of action, and that mode of action
has its own undeviating law. In order to sleep, we
must abdicate our will ; yet, in order to enjoy intel-
lectual activity, it is plain that we must substitute a
presiding will; for it is the absence of this which
makes slumber a state of disorganised and inconse-
quent thoughts. Thus the terms are absolute. If
· we desire to be freed ft·om the thrall of the senses,
yet to retain the mental faculties, we must abjure our
own will, yet find an intellectual substitute.
Again, we may have observed that the superior
activity of any one power of the mind greatly depends
on the non-action of certain others. With some in-
dividuals fancy revels at the expense of reason ; with
others, the cultivation of the exact sciences deadens
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 199
dte imagination; and this inequality of power results
ll8turally from the imperfection of our nature. Were
we strong throughout, we should be as gods. But, in
mesmeric sleepwaking, the question is not whether we
shall cancel one of our faculties in order to increase
another ; but whether we shall, in a degree, change
their directive force, in order to obtain a general
and immense expansion of them all. Latge advan-
tages demand large sacrifices ; and the price to be
paid for the increase of mental powers and of sensitive
capabilities, which attends upon the state of mesmerie
sleepwaking, is a certain forfeiture of the will. Does
this seem ~ bard condition ? How many who have
suffered from self-direction would be glad to place
the government of their being in other hands ! How
many a one, who "has felt the weight of too much
liberty," would gladly cease to be
" Lord of himself- that heritage of woe -
That doubtful empire, which the human breast
.:But holds to rob the heart within of rest."
This, at least, is my view of the limitations of the
will in mesmeric sleepwaking; it may be accepted or
rejected, but the facts, on which it is founded, remain
the same.
The power which the mesmeriser has over his .
patient is, indeed, as great as it is undeniable, and ·
involves, in my apprehension, an immense respon-
aibility on the part of the former. Should he direct
the patient's attention to frivolous or evil things, he .
K4
200 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
might do harm, for which he would be justly answer:.
able. But, fortunately, ·as I have before ·remarked,
there·is, in mesmeric sleepwaking, a natural elevation
of the mind above what is b~e and sensual ; and the
powers that appertain to reason, though ·the subjects
on which they shall exercise·themselves may be much
at the mesmeriser's disposal, are neither to be clouded
nor ~ontrollt>d. Nor is this to be wondered at. · The
mesmeriser can hardly be expected to command in
another that which he can by no means dispose of in
himsel£ In him, in every one of us; Reason, though
too often we would quench her voice, ·will speak as
loudly as conscience, which, indeed, is but· a more
rapid reason ; and he who takes the evil path beholds,
and reluctantly approves, the better way. This shows
a godlike capability in reason, apart from volition :
it seems less to belong to ourselves than to be heaven
speaking in us; and, 'in proportion as we obey its
dictates, we are exalted in the scale of creation. Its
peculiar luminousness, then, under the mesmeric con-
ditions, is at once a safeguard to the sleepwaker, and
a clear record of the most valuable birthright of man.
Many persons, as I am aware, have disliked the idea
of being mesmerised; from the fear of making wrong
revelations, when dt>prived of their usual conscious-
ness. But this is a vain apprehension. · It is true
that mesmeric patients act from impulse, but then their
impulses are good. They will say severe but whole-
some truths to person&' faces; but their instinctive
sense of right forbids them to speak ill of any one
behind his back. Anna M-, with all her know-
MESMERIC SLEEPWAJUNG. 201
ledge of circumstances relating to others, never sea-
soned her talk with scandalous disclosures, never
uttered a word that could injure a human being; and
once, being pressed to relate something which might
have compromised another person, not only kept
silence on that head, but reproved the curiosity of
the qoerist.
Before proceeding to consider the mind under
mesmerism, in its relation to external things, it
seems necessary to notice a class of its intelli-
gences which may be called instinctive, and which,
as seeming to occupy the middle ground between
mind and matter, may properly claim our consider-
ation in this part of our inquiry. Instinct being
the very reverse of artificial acquirement, a high
degree of the one is, under ordinary circumstances,
incompatible with the existence of the other. In
proportion as we are educated we recede from our
intuitive perceptions. But, as in many instances, so
in this, mesmeric sleepwaking reconciles two seemin,z
opposites, which co-exist not in any other ·known
state of being. Retaining the advantages acquired
by art, the mesmeric patient is restored to those
which, in a more primitive condition, we might in-
herit from nature.
. The instinctive knowledge of sleepwakel'S appears
to be chiefly
1. Ofremedies.
2. Of all that relates to the mesmeric state.
3. Of the elapse of time.
First, The instinct of remedies, evinced by sleep-
K 5
202 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKINO.
waken, has been frequently remarked and illustrated.
As I have never studied mesmerism in a medical
point of view, I have naturally had but few opportu-
nities of verifying allegations to this effect. The fol-
lowirig instances, however, of the mesmeric powers of
prescribing, fell under my notice, and will, perhaps,
be the less suspected by the incredulous, as having
presented theiDSelves unsought t9 one who is not of
the medical profession.
The first time that I succeeded in mesmerising
E. A-, a gentleman present told me to ask him,
while in sleepwaking, what remedy a lady of their
mutual acquaintance should apply for the cure of a
chronic sore throat with which she had been for
some time afHicted. The question being put to the
sleepwake~, he immediately replied, "Mademoiselle
De - - should, on going to bed every night, enve-
lope her throat in a linseed ·poultice, which should
be kept moist the whole night through." He then
added some very particular directions about the mak-
ing and applying of the poultice, &c. When the reader
reflects that this piece of medical advice came from a
lively boy of fifteen, who was never ill in his life, and
who hated every thing appertaining to disorders and
their remedies, he will, I think, experience somewhat
of the surprise with which I listened to the young
sleepwaker. Conceiving that he might not be origi-
nal in the remedy which he had proposed, I asked
the gentleman, who had told me to consult him,
whether Mademoiselle De -- bad been recom-
mended any thing of the kind. 'He assured me
MESMERIC SLEEPW.AKlNG. 203 ·
that such had not been the case, but that she had
tried many other things with no effect. When E. A.
awoke and we told him of his medical exploi~ he
was the first to laugh at his own oddity: however, it
was an oddity at which Mademoiselle De -- had
reason to rejoice ; for the remedy prescribed for her
in sleepwaking removed the painful ailment from
which she had-so long suffered.
The above circumstance gave me more confidence
in the remedial instincts of sleepwakers, and induced
me, on one occasion, to ask a young lady whom I
had mesmerised what measures she should recom-
mend me to take for subduing a pain in my side, to
which I had long been subject, in consequence of a
blow received there in a fall from horseback. The
·sleepwaker, without hesitation, told me that I ought
to wear a perpetual blister on the part for some time,
and gave the minutest directions about the size, ap-
plication, &c. of the irritant. Yet I did not have
recourse to it until I had consulted a medical rna~
who assured me that I could do no better than follow
Miss --'s advice, and that, had the lady in question
taken out a diploma, she could not have counselled
me more wisely. Yet the fair doctresswas a shy and
delicate girl of sixteen, who, when awake, was shoc~ed
at herself for having touched on medical matters in
her sleepwaking. The application which she recom-
mended me was of great serviee, and subdued the
chronic pain from which I had suffered incessantly
for many months.
Under the head of Case X., mentioned in the
K 6
204 MESMERIC SLEEPWAlUNG.
preceding book, .I have related that I me5merised a
gentleman who was not in good health ; and I prO-
mised to detail some additional particulars respecting
him. I now redeein that pledge. Mr. W. had long
been in what is called an ailing state. Without be-
ing precisely ill, he felt generally incommoded. He
had no idea whatever of.the cause of his indisposition,
and he had consulted no one respecting it; having, as
he said, a particular dislike to medicines of all kinds.
While he was sleeping mesmerically, it occurred to
me to ask him whether he was more cognisant of his
malady tban when in his natural state. He replied
directly, "Yes. I l;!ee now exactly what is the matter
with me ; and I am happy to say that there is no
organic . complaint. My disorder is a weakness of
the lower intestine, which proceeds from sedentary
habits, and· which can only be cured by alterative
measur5." · He then prescribed for himself a course
o.f the waters and baths of Aix:-la-Chapelle, and· a
certain regimen (which I carefully noted); and finally
pronounced with decision that, in strictly following
these rules, he should be radically cured before the
end of the year. When the patient was awake, I told
him all that he had been saying in sleepwaking, at
.w~ch he was m.uch astonished; and assured me that
the idea of taking baths, or ·drinking ·the waters of
Aix, had never entered his head while in his natural
state. I urged him tO pursue the curative plan which
he had traced out for himself. This he promised to
do; and last aut.umn (I had mesmerised him in the
spring of the same year) I received a letter from
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. ~05
him, aimouncing that, by following· my advice, or
rather his own, he was nearly restored to health.
SecMUlly, The instinct of sleepwakers, relating to
all that concerns the mesmeric state, is one of the
·first that seems to awaken within them. As soon as
they l1ave passed into sleepwaking, they will indicate
the best means ·whereby the mesmeriser may deepen
their slumber, soothe them, or remove any slight
uneasiness they may feel.
Anna M~, on one occasion, while I was mes-
merising some water for her, took the glass from
my hand~ and said, " You do not employ the best
method. I will show you what you must do." She
then placed one band on the top, the other at the
bottom, of the tumbler, held it so for a short time,
and then again applied her hands· to the sides of the
glass, in a very· methodical manner. Another time,
being asked, in sleepwaking, if she could say how a
person present ought to be mesmerised for a pain
from which he was suffering, she proceeded to show
how the operation should be performed, and executed
·the mesmeric passes as ifshe had studied them all her
life. · Curious to see how far this kind of instinct
would extend, I, one evening, requested her, while in
·the mesmeric state herself, to mesmerise a younger
sister, who was present. She did not hesitate to do
this ; and, placing her sister in a proper position, pro-
ceeded to mesmerise her in the most skilful manner.
· The most singular thing is that she used gestures
·which were perfectly new to me, but which I at once
perceived to be very effective. Frequently she
~06 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
breathed upon her own hand, and then laid it on her
sister's forehead. In a short time the little girl
began to be affected with sleep, when my sleepwaker
told me that I must aid her to complete the work.
She took one of my hands, and instructed me to
mesmerise with the other, while she herself continued
to mesmerise with one hand. The effect of this
double operation upon our young patient seemed to
·be great. Her head was alternately attracted towards
~h of her mesmerisers, and she was soon in a pro-
found sleep. Nothing could be more curious than to
see the two sisters sitting opposite each other, both
with their eyes shut, and yet, by the expression of
their countenances, appearing to look at each other.
I now went away to another part of the room, when
Anna M- got up, and walked to. just half-way
between her sister and myself, but she seemed
arrested there by the attraction of contending forces,
and so she remained, turning from me to her sister,
and vice vera&, as if she knew not to which she should
go, till I put an end to this curious scene by retum-
ing to my sleepwaker, and begging her to awake her
sister. This, however, she declared tha~ she could not
do; but added, "The moment that you awake me, my
sister will wake also." The event justified her asser-
tion. Anna M- seemed to possess, when in the
mesmeric state, a curious power of divining which
persons of the company, who might happen to be pre-
sent during her mesmerisation, would be capable of
mesmeric sleepwaking. In such particulars as these
I have never known her err. . It bas also happen~
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 207
that, while she was mesmerised, some other person
in the room has mesmerised another patient. At
these times she would indicate, with exact precision,
the degrees of sleep through which the other patient
was passing ; and often, when every one else has su~
posed the slumber to be complete, she has declared it
was not so, and was always right in her judgments.
I should observe that, in her natural state, she had
none of this knowledge; and once, when I asked her
to mesmerise some one, declared her inability to do
any thing of the kind.
Thirdly. The appreciation oftime displayedby per-
sons in the mesmeric state is remarkable. I have never
known perfect sleepwakers overpass the exact moment
at which they may have been told to remind the mes-
meriser to awaken them; and yet, directly after re-
turning to their natural state, they will, ifquestioned,
make the widest guesses of the time. I extract the
following from our mesmeric register : - " Anna, on
being asked the hour, says it is ten o'clock: the
cathedral bell strikes ten five seconds after. She did
not know the time when the mesmeriser began his
operations, yet can now tell c~rrectly that she has
been sleeping an hour and five minutes. - On being
asked when she would awake, she named half-past
ten ; and, before we had heard the first chime of the
cathedral, she interrupted the conversation suddenly,
saying, with a start, Ah ! you ought to awake me
now." I used to remark that, when this sleepwaker
.
was asked the time, she did not reply so correctly as
above; but when, as was often the case, she spon•
. 208 MESMERIC · SI:.EEPWAJCUW.
taneousJy ealJed out the hour, she never erred. The
least degree of effort on her part seemed to spoil the
instinct.
I now proceed to consider the mind under mesme-
rism, in relation to its susceptibilityto external things.
When it is remembered that the bodily senses, in
the mesmeric sleep, have been shown to be as dead,
an inquiry into the sensations of sJeepwakers may
seem inconsistent in the highest degree; but we may
perhaps discover, on reflection, that the apparent
contradiction is only to be Jaid to the charge of our
own erroneous notions. Did persons clearly perceive
the simple fact, that sensation is not seated in the
senses, but in the mind, they would beless astonished
at hearing of a means of sensation apart from the
usual action of the senses ; but there are few- very
few-who discern this important truth (which, indeed,
lies at the base of all metaphysical knowledge) with
such perfection as to be wholly free &om a certain
confusion of thought respecting it. · Thus, the pre-
paratives of sensation have been studied as sensation
itself; but, as Sir James Mackintosh has admirably
observed, " All the changes in our organs, which
can be likened to other material phenomena, are
nothing more than antecedents and pre-requisites of
.perception, bearing not the faintest likeness to it :
8s much outward, in relation to. the thinking prin-
ciple, as if they occurred in any other part of
matter ; and of which the entire comprehension, if it
were attained, would not bring us a step nearer to
the nature of thought."
MESMERIC SLEEPWA~INO. 209
Nothing can be truer than this ; but our minds
and bodies are, in this life, so strongly identified, that
it is a hard matter for us sufficiently to discerri the
huge gulf between mind and matter, .and to per-
ceive that we may throw in matter for ever, without
filling up the abyssofseparation. God alone has solved
that dilemma ; and, by attaching the external senses to
the soul, has built a bridge for us, arching the chasm
across. He has thus brought us into conscious connec-
tion with·matter and certain of its qualities, primary
and secondary ; but, ifwe could·be made aware of the
samethings in another way, is it not plain that the
great end would be equally answered? ·.If the soul
be brought into relationship with matter and its pro-
perties, the·means are but of small importance, either
as regards their nature or their number. So that
the visible universe, which is but an .expression .of
God's ideas, be in some measure read and compre--
hended by us; so that there be a ·language estab-
lished between man and his Creator; the particular
types and configurationa of that language are of no
more consequence than the forms ·of our written or
printed alphabets. This is ·not ·the place to dwell
further upon these reflections (to be resumed here-
after); but the mere smatterer in metaphysics, who has
learned that odour, colour, savour, sound, are abso-
lutely only known to us as sensations, and can be said
to have no proper existence but in ourselves, should
by no means be alarmed at my viewing sensation in its
results, rather than in its pre-requisites; while the
truest metaphysician will be the best prepared to ex-
210 MESMERIC SLEEPWA.KING.
amine, without prejudice, a mode of perception
dift'ering from the normal. There are, however,
weaker minds, for whose sake I must here expose
a fallacy which has prevented many well-meaning
persons from even venturing to think upon mesmer-
ism. It has been argued, with ashow of plausibility,
" God gave us our senses for such and such uses :
is it not; then, an impiety to say that we can do as
well without them ? Is not their beautiful contriv-
ance, their unrivalled mechanism, thus thrown into
contempt? Shall God be said to create needlessly,
and to endow without wisdom?" Reasoning like
this is an iJ priori condemnation of mesmerism; -
hut is it just? A child might refute it. It proceeds
all along upon false assumptions. Does the advo-
cate of mesmerism assert that we can do as well with-
out our senses in the normal state? Certainly not.
Does he any more deny that our present senses are
exquisitely adapted to that state in which, being our
natural, the greater proportion of our time must
necessarily be passed? Far from it: he acknowledges
thia and far more. · He reaches a cause of gratitude
to God which is beyond the scope of the narrow-
minded bigot. For what nobler purpose, he may
ask, could a change in our mode of perception be
permitted, than to show the necessitarian that the
arrangements of the Almighty depend upon the
almighty will alone;· that what is might easily
have been ·otherwise; and that infinite wisdom can
vary its resources infinitely? Believing, thus, that
to witness a change in our mode of perception may
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 211
be allowed for the instruction of the sceptic, he may
also conjecture that the privilege of beholding an
improvement therein may be accorded for the en•
couragement of the believer. He can well imagine
that the beneficent Being, who ever in the present
gives indications of the future, has placed within ue
a palpable proof of our high immortal destiny ; and
will permit the eoul, even in this restricted sphere,
to view the temporary expansion of its yet folded
wings.
This may be deemed too vague ; but to the colder
reasoner I should suggest, that, in truth, mesmer-
ism does in no way contradict our former experi-
ence: it merely enlarges it. We do not learn that
our senses are not the organs of sensation to us in
our usual state; but we learn an additional truth -
namely, that, in another and anomalous condition,
we find some unwonted medium of sensation. Nor
by this are nature's established principles necessarily
violated, or even infringed. They who believe that
the perceptive peculiarities of mesmerism proceed
(as Coleridge seems to hint they may do) from "a
metastasis ofspecific functions ofthe nervous energy "
may still agree to that definition of sensation, which
a great philosopher has pronounced the only one that
can be given, namely, " A state or affection of the
mind, arising immediately and solely from a state or
affection of the body." •
It is important, also, to remark, that the infonn-
• Brown's Philosophy of the Human Mind.
212 MESMERIC SLEEP1VAKJ:NG.
ation respecting external objects; obtained through
the new 'action of the senses in mesmerism, though
sometimes exceeding, does not at all vary from, that .
which we .receive by the usual channels. Thus we
have a double witness to the truih·and reality of the
things around us: ·we feel, with Descartes, that God
is not the author of a lie; and, far from being led to
doubt or to under.;,value our present organs of sen-
sation, are more ·than ever disposed to confide in
them : scepticism itself allowing the potency of evi-
·dence which springs from two separate yet concurrent
sources• · ·'
,· But, whether the preceding remarks be admitted
to be just or not, the truth· must be stated. Mes-
meric tJleepwaking has its own·mode of perception ;
the peculiarities ·of which I now proceed, to the best
of my ability, to represent.
· In the first place, the mode of sensation in mes-
merised persons is ·(like their mode of motion) of a
twofold nature : the one resulting, as it seems, from
a species of nervous comrimnication with the mes-
·meriser, ·the other, from: the peculiar state of their
own .nervous system under an exciting and develop-
ing stimulus. To discriminate between these ·two
modes of sensation is important, but by no means
easy. The intimate union between t}le patient and
his mesmeriser, subsisting throughout the mesmeric
trance, complicates the phenomena, and renders them
hard to disentangle. Moreover there are decep-
tive appearances, which are calculated to perplex
an inquiry as to the exact medium through which
MESMERIC SLEEPWJ.KING. 213
sensation is conveyed to the mesmerised person. For
instance : - we will suppose the mesmeriser to place
something in the patient's hand;- after a tinle the
latter can tell the form of the object, apparently by
the usual sense of touch. Now this is in diametrical
opposition to the fact, that pins thrust into the
patient's hand excite no sensation there. How shall .
we reconcile the seeming contradiction ? One mo-
ment we see the nerves of sensation useless and
dead ; the next, we see them apparently acting as
usual. All this is very paradoxical ; but, if we cling
to what we have proved, and take some evident
principle, thence educed, to guide us through the
darkling maze, we shall perhaps find that the oppo-
site poles belong to one common orb of reasoning,
and are, indeed, the axis upon which the whole
revolves.
First. We have established, by a series of experi-
ments, that the nerves of sensation, in mesmeric
patients, are of themselves quite estranged from their
usual modes of action.
Secondly. We may deduce from this, that, if the
patient experiences sensation, it must be, whatever
appearances might lead one to suppose, by some
other than the usual mode of nervous action.
Thirdly. Facts come in aid of this deduction.
Let us observe a mesmerised person holding any ·
thing in his band, after a command to examine it.
How unconscious, how unll)eaning, is the action with
which he turns the object about ! How palpable is
his hesitation, as if the mere attempt to use the ac-
214 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
customed channel of sensation were embarrassing f
Can we indeed affirm, should he correctly name that
which he holds, that it is by touch he has formed his
judgment ? Having once proved that his sense of
touch is null, surely it is wiser to conjecture that his
tactual perceptions now come to him in some other
way. Agreeably to this conjecture, I may remark
that my sleepwakers have often failed to recognise by
touch objects which they have at other times seemed
to distinguish rather by a species of vision. Once
Anna. M-- was, for a time, made to believe that a
piece of wood that had been given her to hold was a
piece of snow. Another time, an orange was placed
in her hand. She told what it was, but observed,
"You may think I know this by feeling: it is not
so. In the mesmeric state I have only one method
of knowing things ; and whether I see them; smell
them, or feel them, it is all the satile."""
I explain, then, the circumstance that mesmeric pa-
tients sometimes handle objects, by mere habits ofmo-
tion; - the circumstance that they occasionally recog-
nise objects so handled, by the new perceptions, which,
as I shall hereafter show, are opened to them in their
new condition.
• 'fhis is curiously consonant with the account which the
sleepwaker of Prevorst gave of her own sensations.
" She Wft8 eating some soup while her eyes were shut, and she
.said, ' I can find whatever I will upon my plate with the spoon
-I know well where it is ; but I cannot tell whether I see or
feel it ; - and so with regard to all other objects : I know not
whether I see or feel them.' " - .Die Lenerin oon Prevorlt, vol. i.
page 152.
.MES:WERIC SLEEPWAIUNG. 215
Should this be granted, our path to a comprehen-
sion of the mystery will be at least smoothed and
prepared; and there will be no obstacle to our sub- .
scribing to a proposition, which goes far to explain and
reconcile the antithetical phenomena of mesmerism,
namely, that the conditions of ordinary sensation are
only restored to mesmeric sleepwakers thr0f19h their
mesmeriser.
In demonstration of this, I need not re ·urge the
deo.dQess of sleepwakers to ordinary sensation. I have
only to bring forward some singular proofs, hitherto
held back, that impressions of the external world not
only reach the mesmeric patient, when transmitted
through th~ mesmeriser, but, in such cases, are
actually transmitted through the usual nervous
channels.
Did any one strike or hurt me in any part of the
. body, when Anna M-- was in sleepwaking, she
immediately carried her hand to a correspondi1Z9 part
of her own person. Thus, she would rub her own
shoulder when mine was smarting with a blow, mani-
festing that the actual nerves of that part were, pro
tempore, restored to their functions. Once an incre-
dulous person came near me unawares, and trod
upon my foot, which was quite hidden under a chair.
Tlte sleepwaker instantly darted down her hand, and
rubbed her own foot, with an expression of pain.
Again, if my hair was pulled from behind, Anna
directly raised her hand to the back of her head. A
·pin thrust into my hand elicited an equal demon-
stration of sympathy.
216 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
I have already remarked that, when the mesmer-
iser eats, or drinks, or smells anything, his patients go
through the same motions, as if the impact of the
substances were on their own nerves. But this,.it
may be said, might be referred to the simultaneity of
motion which I have shown to exist occasionally
betWeen the sleepwaker and the mesmeriser. I have,
however, a very strong proof that the former has
really an impression on the nerves of taste, corres-
ponding with that of the latter. Three of rny sleep-
wakers (on whom alone I tried the experiment) could
in no way distinguish substances when placed in their
own mouths, nor discriminate between a piece of apple
and a piece of cheese; but, the moment that I was.
eating, they, seeming to eat also, could tell me what
I had in my mouth. Once I tried this, before many
witnesses, on the sister of Theodore, with some pieces
of fig which I had carefully concealed, and the ex-
periment answered perfectly.
Again, Anna M- heard my watch ticking
when I held it to my own ear, though not when she
held it to her own. In the former case, she assured
me that she heard the sound exactly as if the watch
were close to her own ear.
We are then, I think, justified in concluding that,
in certain cases, the actual capacity of the nerves to
convey impressions is restored to mesmeric sleep-
wakers through the mesmeriser, but in no case
spontaneously. Indeed, the very thraldom of their
will seems to forbid the latter supposition: and it. is
not extravagant to suppose that the mes~eriser, who,
·MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 217
by facts, has been shown capable of paralysing the
nerves of his patient, should also have the power of
restoring to them the conditions of sensation.
It may not be amiss, however, to answer here an
objection that has been raised by some who have not
sufficiently considered the nature of mesmeric sleep-
waking. It has been asked, why, if there be such a
sympathy between the patient and the mesmeriser,
the latter does not also share the sleepwaker's sensa-
tions ? For one plain reason ; the one is active, the
other passive; there is union, but not reciprocity.
The mesmeriser is not in mesmeric sleepwaking, the
patient is; and only he who is in the mesmeric state
can appreciate sensations in the mesmeric manner.
The mesmeriser must be 'considered as the bestower
of a stimulus which exalts another to a particular
pitch of feeling; and the patient as the recipient of
that stimulus, which if he were to re-bestow, he must
fall back into his old habitual state. Thus there can
be no re-action on the mesmeriser. A proper view
of the relationship between the ·parties will at once
clear up the difficulty.
I proceed to show what are the principal pheno-
mena of sensation which more properly belong to the
pati«.>nt himself.
First. In some cases, the class of perceptions, de-
pendent upon a particular sense, are restricted in
number only to be increased in degree.
Anna M-, in sleepwaking, ordinarily heard
nothing but my voice and the voices of those who
·were in a certain contact with me ; but her appre-
L
218 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
ciation of such musical sounds as she was made to
hear was much greater than in the waking state. I
was in the habit of singing to her when mesmerised ;
and, though at other times she cared little for mu-
sic, she then evinced a pleasure which indicated an
extreme susceptibility to musical impressions. She
listened with the deepest attention : as the measure
changed, her countenancebecame animatedor serious;
and she marked such parts of the performance as
were most pleasing to her by a motion of her head
or by raising her finger. It was remarkable that my
voice, when I was singing, acted, in relation to the
sleepwaker, as a conductor to other sounds. Then,
and then only, she appeared to be st>nsible of the
most trifling noij;es in the apartment, and was im-
patient of them to the highest degree; holding up her
forefinger, as if to enjoin silence, and uttering pro-
longed hushes. On one occasion, a person joined me
in singing, when Anna testified the strongest disgust,
making wry faces, and gestures of repugnance.
We then tried the experiment of making the
person sing alone; but the sleepwaker no longer
showed dislike, and, on being questioned, said that
she heard nothing. Occasionally this patient mani-
fested a slight agitation or oppression in the mes-
meric state ; but these uneasy feelings invariably
passed away under the influence of music. When
brought into "rapport" with other performers than
her mesmeriser, she still exhibited.an unusual degree
of musical sensibility; marking the best passages of a
composition with so much taste, and beating time so
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 219
accurately, as once to make a musician suppose that
she was intimately acquainted with his art. Sbe
always, however, heard a voice more distinctly than
the piano. The conduction of the sound was thus
accomplished:- I laid one hand upon the performer's
shoulder, while she herself touched him with one
hand and myself with the other. We have often
tried what effect music would have upon the patient
when awake ; and it was evident that her musical
feeling had passed away with her mesmeric state.
Perhaps I ought here to record a phenomenon, rela-
tive to the sense of hearing, which spontaneously pre-
sented itself. Anna M--, in sleepwaking, had my
watch in her hand, in order to tell the hour; but,
disregarding this, she seemed to be amusing herself
with the watch, alternately carrying it from her ear to
the pit ofher stomach, when suddenly she exclaimed,
" This is wonderful! I cannot hear the watch tick
when at my ear, but, placed below my chest, I hear
it." Other experiments showed that she could also
hear the ticking of the watch when it was held close
to her forehead, or to my own ear. I should observe
that, in her waking state, she knew nothing whatever
of the alleged transposition of the senses in mesmer-
ism, and that I had not much taste for developments
in the "cerebrum abdominale."
E. A., who, in sleepwaking, could hear nothing
when persons shouted close to his ear, did yet evi-
dently retain, in certain cases, a very delicate per-
ception of sound. This was proved by his being able
still to play the flute with his ordinary precision and
L 2
220 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
even more than his usual brilliancy. Often, too,
he composed original airs during his sleepwaking
with a great fertility ofinvention; and, though it was
not easy for him, accomplished musician as he was,
to display more musical talent in his new state than
he evinced commonly, yet, on some occasions, he
demonstrated that his discrimination of sounds had
attained, under mesmerism, a higher development.
First. He played on the piano, correctly, an air,
which, awake, he played but imperfectly, not having
the same power of execution on the piano as on the
flute -his peculiar instrument.
Secondly. Playing an air on the piano, in sleep-
waking, he adapted to a particular note a new chord,
which I at once perceived to be a great improvement
on the original. Not willing, however, to trust to
my own judgment, I consulted a musician on the
point; when he declared the chord played in sleep-
waking to be the best, and indeed the very one which
was required by the laws of harmony. Curious to
observe whether E. A. would discover this of himself,
in the waking state, I never mentioned the subject
iJefore him ; and I found that, unless sleeping mes-
.merically, he continued to play the air with the erro-
neous chord.
The second peculiarity of percE-ption in the state
of mesmeric sleepwaking, which it occurs to me to
point out, is -
A sensibility to influences which in no way affect
persons in the waking condition.
A prism, which I held in my hand, and turned
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 221
with the. point towards the patient, produced, in two
several eases, startings and slight shudderings.
Again, I concealed a magnet in my hand, with
such precautions that the patient could have no
idea of any thing unusual, unless through some
development of feeling. The patiPnt (Anna M--)
started each time that I extended towards her the
hand which held the magnet, and exhibited convul-
sive movements in the bands. When questioned
respecting her sensations, she replied, " I feel as if I
were beginning to be mesmerised, but not pleasantly
- I feel all cold. "
Desirous to try if the different poles of the magnet
would produce different effects, I held the south pole
t<? the forehead of the sleepwaker, when she made
sundry oscillations with her head, which at length
slowly advanced towards the magnet. On presenting
the north pole, her head began to retreat gently, and
with an unsteady motion, like that of the magnetic
needle. The same experiments, tried upon two other
sleepwakers, gave the same results. Sometimes, when
I have presented the north pole of the magnet, the
patient's head has retreated by jerks, as if driven
backward by successive shocks. The south pole, on
the contrary, has always seemed to exercise a very
powerful attractive force over sleepwakers ; yet, as far
as I can judge, they dislike to be submitted to mine-
ral magnetism, which, as they affirm, produces in
them disagreeable sensations. I have known one
individual, who was sensible to the action of a mag-
net lying on a table at some distance and covered
L3
~22 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
by a piece of paper, and who begged it might be
removed. I once asked a sleepwaker whether she
could perceive any analogy between animal and
mineral magnetism, when she replied, " There is an
analogy- but the latter is of a coarser nature. ''
Minerals, in general, seem also disagreeable to sleep-
wakers. Once, I gave a pair of scissors to Anna
M-- (then in the mesmeric state), in order to
cut some thread belonging to a work she was en-
gaged in. Having cut the thread, she shuddered
and threw the scissors from her. When asked if she
did this because of the old proverb, that "scissors cut
love, " she smiled, and said, " In my present statt>, I
have no such superstitions; but I threw the scissors
away, because, when mesmerised, I cannot bear to
touch metal. , •
The effects which precious stones produce upon
sleepwakers are also curious. In three cases, where I
had the opportunity of making experiments of the
kind, I found a certain correspondence of sensation,
which inclines me to believe that a more extended
observation might lead to some certain and interest-
ing results.
The diamond, when pt·esented to the forehead of
a sleepwaker, seemed invariably to excite agreeable
feelings : the opal had a soothing effect ; the emerald
'* Caspar Hauser, whose nervous sensibility had been ex-
alted by an unnatural seclusion from the stimulus of external
things, was extremely alive to metallic influences, and could tell,
through obstacles, where a needle was placed; pointing to the
exact spot, and saying, "It draws me here."
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKlNO. 223
gave a slightly unpleasing sensation; and tbe sapphire
one that was positively painful. What is singular is
that, if the last-named stone was applied to Anna
M-'s forehead, she complained of its roughness,
though it was polished perfectly smooth, -while, on
the contrary, on contact with the diamond, which
was cut in facets, she experienced a sensation of
smoothness. One sleepwaker loved the diamond so
much as to lean forward after it, when I held it in
my hand, and to rub her forehead against it. In
general, however, I did not touch the patients with
the gems, but held them, concealed in my hand, at a
few inches distance from the forehead; and I changed
their order sufficiently often to prove that the sleep-
waker's judgment of them was not accidental.•
Another proof of the increased sensibility of sleep-
wakers is the ease and certainty with which they dis-
• The following is extracted from our mesmeric diary :-
" Being shown several precious stones, Anna put her forehead
towards them, and started, more or less, at each. Some, she
says, produce agreeable, others disagreeable feelings. Being
asked if it is because they are cold, she answers, " Oh no ! far
from it. Some are very hot, and others scratch me as if they
would tear the skin offmy face. Mter several experiments, she
declared that the opal gave a soft feeling, but was neither parti-
cularly agreeable nor disagreeable. The sapphire was hot, and
·very disagreeable. The Brazilian diamond had a pleasing effect,
as if it were the hand of her mesmeriser. The emerald she
made faces and pouted at, saying it was not agreeable. Wilen
the stones were held to her forehead, concealed in the mes-
meriser's hand, she knew them all again, and gave the same ac-
count of her feelings."
L4
224 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
tinguish water that has been breathed on or touched
by the mesmeriser. I have sometimes thus mesmer-
ised, as it is called, a glass of water, half an hour
before it was presented to the sleepwaker, amongst
three others, exactly similar and filled to exactly the
same point. The result of one of tl1ese trials shall
be given, as taken down at the time by an eye-
witness of the experiment : - " Four glasses of water
being presented on a tray to Anna M--, one of
which was mesmerised, she passes her hands over
them all, feeling the rims, and fixes on the mesmer-
ised one. The order of the glasses being changed
behind the mesmeriser's back, who stood so as to
screen the tray from the patient, she feels them all
again, and fixes on the mesmerised water a second
time. Changed again, again she finds it, and drinks
half of the contents of the tumbler, saying it will do
her good."
This sleepwaker seemed to have two methods ofdis-
tinguishing the mesmerised water -the one, as above
described, by running her fingers over the glasses;
the other by carrying each glass to her lips, and
slightly tasting the water it contained. In the latter
case, she invariably marked both her knowledge and
her preference of the mesmerised water, by taking
a deep draught immediately on tasting it. When
asked how it seemed to taste to her, she replied, " So
agreeably, that it is impossible to describe it."
On one occasion, a person who suspected that the
mesmerised water was discovered through some
slight difference in the taste or look, from its having
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 225
been handled, tried to deceive the sleepwaker, by
presenting, amongst the other glasses, one that con-
tained the weakest possible solution of toast and
water ; but the instincts of the sleepwaker were in
no way disturbed. She chose the mesmerised water
unerringly as before.
Whatever I had touched she distinguished with
equal certainty, and would only accept such articles
of diet as were transmitted through my hand. Once,
when I was giving her some cherries, a friend, who
was incredulous, tried in every way to place the
fruit in her hand, in such a manner as to make her
suppose that I was continuing to present it, but she
threw away instantly every cherry that my friend
had touched, making a face expressive of dislike. Is
this, by the way, more extraordinary than the acute-
ness of sense by which the dog recognises its master's
property, or do we only deem it so because less
within the scope of our daily experience?
But it was not only as regarded objects that be-
longed to myself that Anna M- exhibited extra-
ordinary powers of discrimination. More than once,
the pocket-handkerchiefs of five persons have been
tossed to her indiscriminately, (sometimes they have
been all cambric and all nearly alike,) yet, after they
had been jumbled togetheron her lap, she has quickly
and correctly restored each to its several owner.
Occasionally, this finer perception, manifested by
Anna M- in sleepwaking, was, like certain other
of the mesmeric faculties, continued forwat·d, for a
brief moment, into the natural state. I and another
L 5
226 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
person have presented the sleepwaker with two
flower£~, or two strips of paper, as nearly alike as
possible, discriminating them by some little mark
which could only be known to ourselves;- we have
seen her hold these carelessly in her hands, and
frequently change their position; yet can we testify
that, if bid to remember, and asked, immediately on
awaking, who gave her the articles in question, she
could give them back to their respective donors
without hesitation, though without knowing how or
by what impulse.
E. A. manifested similar faculties. On being
asked how he distinguished the mesmerised water, he
said, " J>y vois une espece de lumiere."
All this demonstrates the truth of Laplace's as-
sertion, that, "of au · the instruments by which the
finer emanations of the natural world can be de-
tected, the most delicate are tl1e nerves; especially
when their sensibility has been developed through
particular causes~," and I am thence led to suggest
that, instead of quarrelling about the exalted sensation
of sleepwakers, we should endeavour to turn it to
account. Even should we never succeed in fathom-
ing its principle, there is an obvious probability that
it may be rendered practically useful. If worthless
as an object of analysis, it may at least be valuable as
a test. But it is the nature of man to insist upon a
thing being just as he would make it, or to have
none of it. We reject the benefit that we cannot
comprehend ; and, like children crying for the moon,
" Theorie Analytique du C~tlcul des Probabilit~s.
:MESMERIC SLEEPWAlUNG. 227
are rendered unhappy by seeing an object, however
beautiful, which cannot be brought down to our level
and given us as a plaything.
Yet, on the Continent, men of science have, in
some instances, been wise enough to profit by the
extraordinary perceptions of the mesmeric state. It
is related, in " Die Leherin von Prevorst," that the
sleepwaker, so called, was able to detect in certain
stones a certain ingredient which always affected her
in a particular manner ; and that a mineralogist made
much use of this discrimination; subsequent expe-
riment completely establishing the capacity of his
informer.*
Thirdly. The organs of vision being under quite
other than the normal conditions, a faculty analogous
to sight is developed in mesmeric sleepwaking.
In approaching the phenomena that result from
such an overstepping of the ordinary limits of our
nature, I deeply feel the difficulties that bar my way.
That persons can hear and answer questions while
in a kind of slumber may be conceived; but that
they should see with their eyes shut comes not within
the. compass of our faith. It is contrary to nature
- it is utterly incredible.
Even they who behold the fact are, when it is
first presented to them, incapable of reasoning for
very wonder. They perceive that the mesmeric pa-
• The same sleepwaker distinguished between twelve di1f'erent
kinds of grapes, and their several degrees of excellence, astrin-
gency, &c.-Leherin von Prevorst, vol. i. p. 81., published at
Stutgart and Tiibingen.
L 6
228 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING•
.tient's mode of vision is different from any within the
range of their experience; but what that mode may
be appears to them a mystery unfathomable.
Such were my own feelings on first witnessing an
exhibition of what is called clair-voyance in mesmer-
ism; and I now endeavour to recal them, in order
that I may sympathise more with the astonishment or
incredulity of my readers over the statements which
I am about to make. Should they suspend their
beliefas to certain phenomena till they have actually
beheld the alleged wonders with their own eyes, I
can scarcely blame them for a doubt which is, per-
haps, but proper caution. Rather must I address
them in the words of Treviranus, when speaking to
Coleridge of mesmeric marvels, - " I have seen
what I am certain I would not have believed on your
telling, and in all reason, therefore, I:can neither
expect nor wish that you should believe on mine.''
Even they who are most firmly convinced that mes-
merism bas its own mode of vision must be content
to accept the phenomenon, without having that surety
of it which personal experience alone can give of any
thing. The mesmeriser witnesses the wonder, but
does not feel it in himself: the sleepwaker, who is the
subject of it, seems incapable of analysing his new
sensations while they last, still more of remembering
them when they are over. The state of mesmerism
is to him as death.• He cannot, when he awakes,
• I once asked a young lady, who was in sleepwaking, why,
on awaking, she forgot all that she did with such apparent in-
telligence. Her answer was, " Des qu'on est magnetise on
ett comme mort."
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKINO.
reveal the mysteries of that great deep. His m~
meric feelings are to him as though they had never
been; and less favoured, in this respect, even than they
who have beheld him in his unusual condition, he
is forced to take his own actions upon trust, and to
exercise his own faith, while he draws so largely upon
the realising faculty in others.
It is manifest, then, that we cannot believe in the
clair-voyance of sleepwakers, in the same manner
that we believe and know that we ourselves see with
our eyes. It is a fact which transcends our present
understanding.
To what end, then, it may be asked, should I
state phenomena which will be believed by few, and
perfectly comprehended by none ? Because many
things that are mysteries are, nevertheless, profitable
subjects of contemplation. Whatever is beyond our
actual state of being is confessedly out of the pale of
empirical knowledge; yet shall we, on that account,
banish the higher developments of nature from our
thoughts, or even from our own scientific examina-
tion? Were all our ideas confined to that which we
certainly know, the domain of our intellect would be
limited indeed. Besides, by careful study, we I)lay
always extend, though we cannot complete, our appre-
hension of things above us ; and, by discovering their
analogy to things already known, bring them at least
nearer to our experience. Clearly then, where there
is so much room for progress, it is our duty to ad-
vance, remembering that the point where we should
abandon enterprise has not yet been decided. In:
830 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
the present instance, the objects that I propose to
my8elf are these : -To show in our present being
the elements of a future existence ; to prove that our
actual senses are limitations of our percipient power;
and that, in proportion as the mind is detached from
them, it acts more largely, overcoming obstacles
which, by means of our usual organs, it is impossible
to surmount. It may be, also, that the facts on
which I found man's capacity of development, being
supported by good testimony, may convince some
who have hitherto been incredulous, and may supply
others, who already believe, with additional light to
guide them further on their way.
I have already stated that I have seen sleepwakers
descry objects, when their eyes were, to all appear-
ance, perfectly closed ; but my experiments on this
head were not so rigorous, but that it might still be
objected that mesmeric patients, like certain politi-
cians,
" See through all things with their half-shut eyes."
I now proceed to show that, in many cases, such
a supposition is untenable ; and that the mesmeric
sleepwaker may have a mode of vision to which the
usual conditions of sight are altogether wanting.
The first time that I mesmerised Anna M--, a
workbox, which she had never seen before, was held
before her. She stooped her forehead towards it, in
a manner that struck me, and imm~diately named
what it was. The box having been opened, the
sleepwaker again bent her forehead till it was nearly
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 2:)}
parallel with its surface ; then rapidly named the
various objects it contained ; and, taking them up one
by one in her hand, seemed desirous of examining
them more particularly. But, to my surprise, she
waved the articles about before her, as if trying in
what point of view she could best descry them, hold·
ing them to various parts of her face and forehead,
and exclaiming, as if perplexed, " Where, then, are
my eyes?" At length she seemed best satisfied, when
holding objects before her forehead, at the distance
of a few inches, declaring that she saw them most
distinctly there. In order to put her assertions to
the proof, I held my watch before the 'forehead of
the sleepwaker, without descending it to the level of
her eyes. She took it from me, and, not lowering it
in the least, held it so turned as that it formed an
acute angle with her forehead, immediately above
the eyebrow. It is to be remarked that she thus
presented the watch to her forehead, first on the right
side, then on the left, as if to submit it to the
scrutiny of a double organ. After this she named
the exact hour and minute. The hands having been
altered, she found the time with equal correctness.
A poppy being held before her forehead, she said,
" I see a red flower ; but I do not exactly know its
name."
Remembering that an experienced mesmeriser had
told me that sleepwakers, in general, perform most
readily anything which gives them pleasure in their
waking state, and observing, in conformity with this
statement, that Anna M-, who was an expert
-
232 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
needle-woman, took particular interest in the work-
box and its appendages, I proposed to her to proceed
with a piece of work which was at hand. She im-
mediately took the work, and, holding it always on a
level with her forehead, went on methodically with
the hem of the piece ofmuslin I had given her. When
necessary, she turned down a new fold ; and, in every
respect, performed her task as well as she could have
done awake. The work, submitted to female judg-
ment, was pronounced to be a capital piece of semps-
tress-craft, the stitches being even and not one of
them dropped.
After this, we often gave Anna M-- work to
do in the mesmeric state, when parties of ten or
twelve persons have been present, to witness her
extraordinary development of vision. She conti-
nued to hold every thing to her forehead ; and with
her hands raised to that level, in a position which,
under ordinary circumstances, would be difficult and
painful, has embroidered delicate flowers upon mus-
lin, and even threaded her needle, without apparent
effort.
As it is my sincet·e desire to give a correct' picture
of mesmeric sleepwaking, I would on no account
represent this power of vision as greater than it
really was, or omit the inconsistencies which attended
its exercise. That it was by no·means even or con-
stant cannot but be acknowledged, though I am by
no means prepared to develope the cause of its
caprices. Thus Anna, though giving incontestable
proofs of vision by the forehead, could not be brought
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 233
to distinguish printed or written letters in the roes,.
meric state, except on one occasion, when she read
her own name, which I had written in a large hand,
and held at once before her forehead. It seemed
to me that her new visual faculty was always in its
best condition when spontaneously exerted, and that
any effort on her part, any over-anxiety to fulfil our
requisitions, marred it altogether. I have often
asked her to name an object, which I have allowed
her to examine as she would ; but sh~ has not named
it, though apparently striving earnestly to do so.
Again, she has indicated other things spontaneously
when it was quite impossible for her to have dis-
cerned them in the ordinary manner. It was when
she was sitting quietly, and apparently forgetful that
she was an object of observation, that she displayed
the most remarkable phenomena of vision. One
instance however is better than a thousand assertions.
She was sitting with her head so much bent down as
to bring the upper part of her forehead parallel to the
wall of the apartment. In this position, with her
eyes closed, it was impossible for her to have seen, in
any usual way, objects that were immediately fronting
her. So placed, I observed her smile, and asked
her why she did so? "I am smiling," she said,
" because I am pleased to see Mrs. -- opposite to
nte." "You see her, then, well?" I inquired. Yes;
she has a cup of tea in her hand." Upon this, the
lady in question adt·oitly changed the cup of tea for
a book; upon which Anna immediately remarked,
" But now she has taken a book." The lady then
234 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
opened the book, and held it by the two sides, spread
out exactly on a level with the forehead of the sleep-
waker, who said directly, "Oh! she holds the book
quite open by its two ends."
This experiment, neither suggested nor in any
way conducted by myself, was interesting to me in
no trifling degree, and was convincing to all who
witnessed it.
Another singular circumstance was, that no one
could put on an ugly mask that lay about the room,
and to which Anna, in her mesmeric state, had a
great aversion, without her testifying, by faces ex-
pressive of dislike, that she was aware of the circum-
stance. We have tried this, when the sleepwaker
was occupied by other things, and with every pre-
caution, of making no noise, &c.; yet the result was
always the same.
When placed before a looking-glass, she could
indicatt>, more correctly than at any other time, the
gestures of persons standing near her, and seen by
reflection. I have pulled out her comb, and she has
arranged her hair again perfectly before a mirror,
holding her forehead parallel to its surface. Being
asked if she saw herself with her eyes open or shut,
she replied, " Open, to be sure;" and, when I reasoned
with her on this point, she replied, " I see as if my
eyes were open; and so they must appear to me
open." It is singular that another sleepwaker gave
me exactly the same answers under the same circum-
stances. I shall refer again to the subject, which is
of metaphysical importance.
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 235
A gentleman who was once present during a mes-
merisation ofAnna M--, being placed"en rapport"
with her, laid his hand upon her forehead, when she
exclaimed, " Why do you cover my eyes ?" He then
touched her eyes, and asked, " What part of your face
am I touching now ?" The sleepwaker seemed per-
plexed, and at length answered, "It is a part of my
cheek, is it not?"
When asked to point out where different persons
were placed in the apartment, during her sleep-
waking, she never failed to do so, however their
respective positions might be changed ; leaning her
forehead forward all the time, and presenting it to
each individual. At the instant of recognising each
person she always gave one or two convulsive starts,
as if her forehead came in contact with some invisible
thing.
The account that she gave of her visual perceptions
was sufficiently confused. These are her own words,
relative to this subject, taken down, on one occasion,
by a friend : - " It is all clear through my forehead.
Sometimes I see so clear ! But then, again, there is a
sort of light cloud"that comes over the clearness, and
then I can hardly see anything. I do not see as with
two eyes, but here (passing her hand across her fore-
head), with my brain.''
Already, in various accounts of experiments, I have
mentioned E. A--, a boy aged fifteen, whom I
had opportunities of frequently mesmerising. This
patient, of all whom I have ever seen, manifested in
sleepwaking the most extraordinary development of
236 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKINO.
visual power. As I have before said, he had been,
in childhood, a natural sleepwaker; and I now add,
on the testimony of his father, that he would some-
times rise in the night, take out his flute, (an instru-
ment which he was studying professionally,) place
music before him, and play from notes, continuing
to turn over the leaves of the music-book correctly,
although his eyes were closely shut. On one occasion,
while his father was watching him in a paroxysm of
this kind, the only light in the apartment, a lamp,
went suddenly out; but the sleepwaker continued to
play as before, and was heard to turn over the leaves
of his music until he had come to the end of the
piece, which, moreover, he could not execute without
book. Thus, it wiJl be perceived, there was in this
sleepwaker a sort of natural ground for the develop-
ment of extraordinary vision; and it was this con-
sideration which led me, after having heard the
anecdotes above related, to request the boy to submit
himself to the effects of mesmerism. He consented
to a trial, the result of which will show how careful
persons ought to be in deciding, from one or two
unsuccessful experiments, that a patient is insuscep-
tible of mesmerisation. I had mesmerised E. A--
twice (each time an hour), and he had shown no
symptom of being affected by any influence. I
should not have made a third trial, but· for the
following circumstance :-I had thrown Anna M--
into mesmeric sleepwaking before a large party of
persons, amongst whom was E. A-. I think I
have every reason to affirm that the sleepwaker did
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 287
not know anything whatever ·respecting E. A--,
not even his name, nor that I had attempted to
mesmerise him ; yet, being accidently near him, she
said to me, (as if guided by that extraordinary
instinct, respecting all that relates to the mesmeric
state, which I have before noticed as characteristic
of true sleepwaking,) "You should mesmerise this
young man : he is a natural sleepwaker; and will
become very clair-voyant." I answered that I had
already tried to mesmerise the boy, and that I bad
failed in my object. " You should try again," re-
plied the sleepwaker, "and you will succeed." But
before relating bow truly this prophecy was accom-
plished, and its further results, I must observe, in
order to remove all suspicion of Anna M-'s sin-
cerity, that in recommending me to mesmerise E.
A-- she was speaking strongly 3.oaainst her own
interest, and even her own general feelings; for, with
a sort of sentiment that may be called mesmeric
jealousy, she never could endure me to mesmerise
any one but herself. Then, again, I was endeavour-
ing to educate her powers of mesmeric vision, in the
hope that she might gain the prize offered· by the
academy of medicine, at Paris, to a sleepwaker who
could read without the aid of the eyes ; and, knowing
that attention to any one else must, in a degree, dis-
tract me from this object, she had every reason to
fear a rival in my mesmeric graces. Moreover, in
order to avoid giving her the least uneasiness, I
carefully concealed from her my relations with E.
A-; and as, when awake, she forgot wholly the
238 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
events of her sleepwaking, she never knew (as far as
I can judge) either that I had mesmerised E. A-
at any time, or that there was any question of my
doing so.
Having said thus much in justice to Anna M--,
(a precaution not unnecessary in the present hos-
tility to mesmerism,) I proceed to state that, the third
time I mesmerised E. A--, he, at the end of an
hour, passed so far into sleepwaking as to be able
to answer questions without awaking- questions of
which he retained no recollection in his natural state.
On a fourth mesmerisation, he manifested all the
characteristic symptoms of mesmeric sleepwaking ;
was able to move about with tolerable ease; and
began to diRplay those extraordinary phenomena of
vision which I have prepared my reader to expect.
These may be divided into two classes- namely, such
as presented themselves spontaneously, and such as
were developed during a course of strict experiment.
With regard to both it may be observed that
there was exactly that progress in their develop-
ment which attends the education of a new faculty.
At first, the patient could only descry the larger
objects around him, or ,;mch as most interested him,
or to which he was the most habituated. Thus,
though able, in the early stages of his sleepwaking,
to discriminate between the persons present in an
apartment, and though testifying, in all that related
to music, great powers of sight, (for, from the first, he
could, while mesmerised, write out music with pre-
cision,) yet, for a long period, he found considerable
MESMERIC SLEEPWA.KINO. 239
difficulty in reading from a book - always com-
plained of the smallness of the type, and could rarely
be prevailed upon to look at more than two or three
words at a time. Subsequently, his eyes being
always firmly shut, (as far as the strictest observation
could determine,) he was able to read any number of
words in the minutest type with perfect ease, and to
discern small and large objects, near or distant, with
exactly the same facility of vision which is possessed
by a waking person. In proof of this I may mention
that I and the members of my family have seen him,
when in the mesmeric state, thread a small needle,
and sew a button on his coat, and, again, distin-
guish minute letters on a seal which a gentleman
showed him, and which I could not make out myself.
At another time, in mesmerism, he played on the
flute a piece of music which he had never seen
before, from a book that was set up before him at the
distance of some feet ; and once being mesmerised
out of doors, and led to a spot where he had ,never
been, he described all its features, and indicated the
form and position of the distant mountains. This
power of perception, analogous to sight, seemed
principally to reside in the forehead. Whatever
objects he took up to examine he immediately
carried there ; and once, in the presence of Dr.
Foissac, at Paris, he, being given a set of eye-glasses
which he had never seen when awake, of eight
different colours, shut up in a tortoise-shell case,
unfolded them, and applying one, at hazard, to his
forehead, without descending it to the level of his
240 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
eyes, exclaimed, " Every thing appears blue to me !"
at the same time, boy-like, imitating the gestures of
a Parisian dandy, and observing that he should like
to show off his pretty lorgnette in the street. The
glass which he had accidentally chosen was, in fact,
blue. Subsequently, he at various times has named
the principal tints of the eight glasses correctly, when
presented to his forehead in any order. The same
result took place when his eyes were bandaged. It
was, however, remarkable that a powerful magnifying
glass being placed before his forehead was not per-
ceived by him to enlarge objects, though he read in
a book, through tlie glass, with perfect ease.
Though the powe1· of vision was greatest in the
forehead, yet at times, and especially when he
was excited, and not in any way called upon
to exhibit, (for such requisitions often seemed to
fetter liis faculties,) he seemed to see on every side
of him, as if his head were one organ of visual per-
ception. This is no exaggeration, as the following
instance will show : - He was once sitting on a sofa,
in the mesmeric state, when a gentleman with whom
he was well acquainted came behind the sofa, and
made all kinds of antics. On this, the sleepwaker
exclaimed, " Oh, Mr. D-- ! do not suppose I can-
not see you : you are now doing so and so (describing
all Mr.D-'sgestures). Youhavenowtakenapaper-
cutter into your hand, and now a knife. Indeed, you
had better go away, and not make yourself so ridicu-
lous," Another time, be was sitting at a table,
writing music, with his back to the door, when a
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 241
-tervant enter~ the apartment, "Oh, Mademoiselle
L---- ! is that you? he said. .How quietly you
stand there with your arms folded." He was quite
correct in all he said. Directly after this I took up
a bottle from a table behind the patient, and held it
up to the back of his head, asking him if he knew
what I held. He instantly replied, "A bottle, to be
sure."
Having mentioned the principal phenomena of
vision which E. A. spontaneously presented, I pro-
ceed to state those which he manifested under strict
experiment.
Well convinced that doubts would exist, not only
in the minds of others, but in my own, respecting the
patient's manner of seeing, so long as there was the
remotest possibility of his discerning objects through
any aperture, however small, between the eyelids, I ·
studied to put this out of the question by precautions
so severe as to forbid imposition, and so varied as to
supply that accumulated and concurring evidence
which circumstances that contradict experience impe-
ratively require.
1st. I laid the patient on a sofa, in bright day•
light, with his face turned towards the window, and
made him lean his head back until I could see com·
pletely under his eyes. When he was so placed, I
could have detected the slightest gleam of the eye
through the smallest opening of the lids. I have
then given him a book, from which he has read with
ease, (holding it nearly parallel to his forehead,)
while all the time I fixed my eyes earnestly on hia,
)(
•
242 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
and yet could perceive not the slightest tendency in
them to unclose.
2dly. I laid the palms of my hands, the fingers
pointing upwards, on the eyes of various persons, in
such a manner as that the projecting parts of each
hand should exactly fit into the concavities about the
eyes. These persons assured me that, with their
eyes so covered, they could see nothing whatever. I
have given them cards or books in their hands, but
by no efforts on their parts could they distinguish
these objects. I have repeated the same experiment
again and again upon E. A., in a state of sleepwak-
ing, and never found that the palms of my hands in
any way impeded his vision. He could see cards, or
read in books, under the above circumstances, with
perfect ease. I never felt any motion beneath my
hand, as if the patient were trying to open his eyes ;
nor did he evince the slightest inclination to draw
his head back fmm the pressure of my hands.
3dly. Standing behind the patient, I have laid my
closed fingers over his eyes horizontally, or I have
forcibly pressed down his lids with one finger of each
hand. This, which, when tried on others; effectually
impeded their sight, made no alteration in the visual
perceptions of the sleepwaker. In order to avoid
repetition, I here state, generally, that the efficacy
of the means I employed to stop the eyes of my
patient was always first proved upon the eyes of
indifferent persons. I should remark, moreover,
that the patient had no objection to permit any one,
who was previously placed "en rapport" with him,
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING, 243
to try upon him all the above experiments. I there-
fore usually engaged other persons to do this, in pre-
ference to myself, as the most satisfactory way ofcon-
vincing them that there was no complicity between me
and my sleepwl,lker, and of bringing the matter home
to their own business and bosoms. This manner
of proceeding has shaken niany from their incre-
dulity.
4thly. Having filled a couple of china eye-glasses
with wadding, I, or some other person, held them
firmly to the patient's closed eyes when in sleepwak-
ing. This also made no difference in his visual
perceptions. When the same eye-glasses have been
applied without the wadding, notwithstanding their
perfect opacity, the patient has declared that he could
see the light very plainly through them ; and that they
were so transparent that he could not conceive why
we imagined they should prevent him from seeing.
5thly. I have tried various methods of bandaging
the patient's eyes. I have tied a broad and thick
silk handkerchief over them, and then I have held
down with my fingers, or the palms of my hands,
the whole of the bottom part of the bandage. Thi!l
method seems to me as perfect as any. It did not at
all impede the sleepwaker's vision. In addition to
this, (the same result always ensuing,) I have laid
strips of wadding over the eyes before applying the
handkerchief, and I have firmly secured every pos-
sible interstice between it and the cheek with cotton.
In the presence of Dr. Foissac, strips of diachylum
were added to all the above apparatus, in order to
M2
244· MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
fasten down the edges of the handkerchief to the
·cheek; but the sleepwaker saw as well as ever. On
"Several occasions I bandaged his eyes, adding the
cotton and the wadding before beginning to mes-
merise him, when he has assured me that he could not
distinguish day from night. Then, having passed
into sleepwaking, he has immediately given proofs of
perfect vision-quite as:·perfect, indeed, as that en-
joyed by persons whose eyes are open and unbound.
Again, on awaking, (the bandage never having been
stirred during the whoie period of his sleepwaking,)
he has found himself in perfect darkness. The
transition was marked. One moment, drawn by the
strong attraction of my presence, he was following me
about the room, through intricacies of chairs and
tables, with perfect ease ; the next, he was standing
helpless, not caring to be near me, and, if called
upon, unable to move, except with the groping hesi-
tation of a blindfold person. I remarked that he
did not wake so easily with the bandage on as when
he had no bandage. The action of the transverse
pa.~es that I used to that effect seemed modified by
the interposing substance. The striking proofs of
vision that the patient gave, when properly ban-
daged, were, that he read in books, and distin-
guished cards, theit· colours, suit, &c., often playing
with me at various games upon them. I remarked that
in sleepwaking he was quite adroit at the game of
cassino, which I had almost vainly tried to teach him
in the waking state. It will be allowed that for a
person, even bandaged in a slovenly manner, to per-
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 245
ceive, at a glance, the combinations on the boarc:l,
would be no easy matter ; yet this be did with
rapidity, completely bandaged as he was.
6thly. I threw over the patient's head two thick
and large towels, which covered him in front down to
the hips. Through these he has read, holding the
book at an angle with his forehead, and has distin-
guished cards with perfect accuracy. This kind of
experiment was occasionally varied. Sometimes the
sleepwaker has been bandaged, and, in addition to
this, a towel has been thrown over his head ; but the
result was equally satisfactory. This power, how-
ever, seemed to have its limits. The addition of a
third towel greatly impeded the patient's vision, yet
even-thus he has distinguished cards. On one occa-
sion, a visiter, instE'ad of covering up the patient's
eyes, enveloped the object to be seen in the folds of
a napkin. The experimenter, in order, if possible,
to mislead myself, the sleepwaker, and all who were
present, gave us to understand that he had placed
one card only in the napkin; (he had performed the
operation with his back turned,) but the patient was
not to be deceived. At first, indeed, he seeme<i
puzzled ; but even this transient perplexity elicited a
curious proof that he saw not only through the triple
folds of the napkin, but through the back of one of
the cards. He said, " There seems to me to be a
five, but the points are not of the same colours
-" Oh !" he exclaimed, after a pause, "how could I
be so stupid ! there are two cards. One is the ace
M3
246 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
of hearts, the other the four of clubs." He was per-
fectly right. The four of clubs had its face upper-
most, the ace was laid under it, and, in order to form
a five, the sleepwaker must have seen the ace under-
neath the other card.
7thly. One day I was curious to observe whether
my patient could discriminate colours or forms, on
apparently flat surfaces, by the touch, as the blind
sometimes have been known to do. To this end, I held
an open book over a little round French paper box,
which had no distinction of top or bottom, except that
there was a picture on what was meant for the upper
side. I gave the sleepwaker the box into his hand,
(holding the book always so as to sc.r:een the object
from him,) and asked if he knew whereabouts the
picture was. He immediately turned it right side
uppermost, and with his finger pointed out th(l prin-
cipal features of the little painting- a shepherdess
sitting under a tree, &c. "Then," I said, "you do
perceive by your fingers." " No," he replied, " but
I see through the book. " Desirous of testing this
more perfectly, I held open a large book exactly
before his face, and, taking up, at hazard, a card
from a pack that lay near me, I kept the figured side
concealed against my hand, until I could turn it
towards the sleepwaker, immediately behind the
book. Stooping his forehead forward, till it nearly
touched the back of the volume, he told correctly
what the card was. This experiment I frequently
1·epeated, with equal success ; sometimes varying it,
MESl\IERIC SLEEPWAKING. 247
by bandaging the patient's eyes before I held the
book before them. The additional obstacle seemed
to make no difference. Sometimes I have placed a
card, with due precaution, in the midst ofa book which
I kept open only by the interposition of a finger,
holding the face of the card pressed against the
leaves of the book, and thus entirely concealing it.
I have then held the book upright before the patient,
who has bent his forehead forward, as usual, till it
was parallel to the cover of the hook, and has then
told the card correctly. What is singular is that, if I
withdrew my finger and quite closed the book, the
experiment failed. The sleepwaker said that the
reason of this was that the vibrations of the medium,
by which he pretended to perceive objects, were too
much intercepted by the pe1fectly closed book. I
should observe, once for all, that, when I record the
sayings of my sleepwakers, it is not because I give
faith to them, but for reasons to which I shall advert
hereafter. Indeed, nothing can be more contra-
dictory or unsatisfying than the account which mes-
merised persons render of their own mode of sensa-
tion. For instance, E. A. told me once that he saw
througlt the book that was held between him and an
object ; but at another time he propounded a long
and confused theory, by which he made it appear
that his sight did not penetrate the obstacle, but re-
ceived an impression from certain rays, that did not
come to his eye in direct lines, but were bent round
the edges of the book.
8thly. Another class of precautions which I have
H4
248 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
taken, to convince myself that the mechanism of the
eye had nothing to do with the mesmeric mode of
vision, consisted in spreading out a pack of cards on
a table, face downward, (frequently changing the
pack, lest any of the cards might, in any way, become
known to the sleepwaker,) and in sliding a card, at
random, onto the palm of my hand, so that its faced
side ~as never for a moment exposed until I had
lifted it .above the patient's head, when I presented
it at once to his forehead or occiput. In the same
way I have taken up a written paper, previously
prepared, or a book, which I have not opened until
it was· above the level of the patient's eyes; and I
have' held these objects to various parts of his head.
The following are the results of observations made
under the above circumstances : -
The sleepwaker's power of perception seemed to
become weaker as it withdrew from the region of
ordinary sight. I have known him read half a page
from a book which was held immediately above the
eyebrow; and he found but little difficulty in telling
any number of cards which were held in the.same
position. He did not at all like to have objects held
behind him; saying that perception by the occiput
was very fatiguing, and cost him an effort which did
him harm. It certainly is a fact that, after he had told
things in this way, he used to complain of uneasiness
on awaking. Still he gave indubitable proofs that he
could occasionally exercise, by means of the back or
other parts of his head, a faculty analogous to sight.
Thefollowing are themost striking instances of this:-
:triESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 249
I wrote in my pocket-book (holding it above the
patient's head) the words, " Voulez-vous aller it
Milan?" I then presented the writing immediately
to his occiput. He immediately called out, " Oh I
je vois la le nom d'une grande '\Pille !" and then,
word by word, he seemed to make out the whole
sentence, which he at length repeated correctly.
On another occasion, I took up a book at random,
and opened it just behind the patient's ear, holding
the book parallel to the side of his head. I had
opened it at the beginning of a chapter. His first
exclamation wa:;, "There's a great deal of white on
that page." I said nothing, but continued to hold
the book as before, when he began to repeat some
numbers that were on the page,-" 1425, 1426."
Then, without pausing, he read, distinctly and cor-
rectly, the title of the chapter, which was as fol-
lows: - " Scenes Historiques. - La Main Droite du
Sire de Giac (1425, 1426.) """ He continued with
one or two words of the chapter itself, but suddenly
broke off, in a way that was habitual with him, pushed
away the book and declared himself fatigued.
In telling cards by means of various parts of his
head, he liked to observe certain conditions which
were executed either by himself ot· at his direction.
His favourite mode of proceeding was to lift his own
hand above his head, and to take the card (from me,
• Taken from a work called " Dod6cation, ou Ie Livre des
douze." Bruxelles, 1836.
M5
250 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKJNG.
which he held at a certain distance from the part
where I told him to exercise hia perception, observ-
ing that no one ever put a thing they wanted to see
close to their eyes. When I held the card myself,
and approached it nearer than he liked, he always
gave indubitable proofs of being aware of the cir-
cumstance, begging me to place the object farther
off. Sometimes, when he found a difficulty in ascer-
taining the card, he would beg me to breathe on it;
and, when I had done so, he would tell it directly.
At other times, he would hold the card horizontally
above his head; and then, without stirring the centre
of the card from its place, would dip down first one
end and then the other, like the two extremities of a
see-saw. This he called "Le moyen electrique. "
He.was generally successful in telling cards in this
manner, sometimes on the first operation, sometimes
after two or three repetitions of it.
Occasionally I have placed the patient's own hand
on a table with the palm uppermost, and have glided
onto it a card drawn at random from the pack, with
the face downward. Then I have told him to what
part of his head he should lift the card ; but it has
often happened that, while in the act of conveying
the card (the back always uppermost), he has said,
" I need not trouble myself to take the card any far-
ther, for I know already what it is." On these
occasions he was sure to be right; and, notwithstand-
ing his assertions to the contrary, I was by this, and
other minute circumstances, led to imagine that his
whole nervous system shared something of the per-
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 251
c1p1ent faculty which more peculiarly manifested
itself in the forehead. His own account of this was,
- that he received perceptions through the motions of
a fluid, which was conducted by the brain generally,
but was transmitted with the greatest facility through
the orbits of the eyes and the region immediately
above them. He declared that the ball of the eye
had no share in the production of his mesmeric vision,
but that the impression was made direct upon the
brain; moreover, that the sensations caused in him
by the motions of the fluid resembled those excited
by light. When cards, &c., were held behind his
head, he rarely distinguished the whole object at
once; but (as in the case of a card, for instance) he
would first name the suit and colour, then count the
pips one by one, and, finally, name the whole card.
When questioned (not by myself, but by a person
who took interest in my experiments) why he did not
tell the object at once, he replied, " The light that
seems to strike upon it falls partially, and first I see
one part of the card, then another."
9thly. I have been making still larger and larger
demands upon the belief of my reader, and now I am
about, perhaps, to revolt him altogether; but, having
once undertaken to give a faithful relation of that
which I have witnessed, can I draw back from the
accomplishment of my task? No; while conscious
that I only speak the strictest truth, I am prepared
even to have that truth doubted. Time will " bring
in its revenges."
M 6
t52 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
Remembering that E. A-, on his father's teg...
timony, had, in natural sleepwaking, seemed to per-
ceive objects in total darkness, I was curious to ascer-
tain whether, in mesmeric sleepwaking, he would
manifest a similar phenomenon of sensation. I there-
fore, having mesmerised him, took him with me into
a dark press or closet, of which I employed a friend
to hold to the door, in such a manner as that no ray of
light should penetrate through crevice or keyhole.
Then, like the hero of " The Curse of Kehama,"
"I open'd my·eyes and I closed them,
And the blackness and blank were the same."
My utmost efforts to see my hand only produced
those sparks and flashes which waver before the eye
in complete obscurity. Having thus ascertained the
perfect darkness of the closet, I drew a card at hazard,
from a pack with which I had provided myself, and
presented it to the sleepwaker. He said it was so
and so. I repeated this to my friend, whom I then
told to open the door. The admission of light es-
tablished the correctness of the sleepwaker : it was
the card he had named. The experiment repeated
four times gave the same satisfactory result. This
peculiar development of vision was, like the other
faculties of the sleepwaker, capable of improvement
through exercise. At first, he seemed unable to read
in the dark ; then, like a person learning the alphabet,
he came to distinguish large single letters, which I
had printed for him on card; and at length he could
make out whole sentences of even small print. While
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 253
thus engaged in deciphering letters, or in ascertaining
cards, the patient always held one of my hands, and
sometimes laid it on his brow, affirming that it in~
creased his clair-voyance. He would also beg me to
breathe upon the objects which he desired to see.
He used to declare that, the more complete the dark·
ness was, the better he could exercise his new mode
of perception ; asserting that, when in the dark, he
did not come to the knowledge of objects in the samt-
manner as when he was in the light: " Quand je suis
dans l'obscurite,'' he said, "il y a une lumiere qui
sort de mon cerveau, et qui tappe justement sur
l'objet; tandis que, dans la lumiere, !'impression
monte depuis l'objet jusqu'a mon cerveau." Often,
when I could not see a ray of light, he used to com-
plain that the closet was not dark enough, and, in
order to thicken the obscurity, he would wrap up
his head in a dressing-goWn which hung in the
closet. At other times he would thrust his head into
the remotest corner of the press. His perception of
colours, when exercised in obscurity, sustained but
little alteration. He has named correctly the different
tints of a set of coloured glasses. It ·was, however,
worthy ofremark that he was apt to mistake between
the harmonic colours, green and red, not only when
he was in the dark, but when his eyes were ban-
daged.
Many persons can bear testimony to the accuracy of
the above experiments ; and I refer to the Appendix
for proofs that I sought for witnesses and invited scru-
tiny, feeling that such things as I had to narrate could
scarcely be credited on the word of a single person.
~54 l'tlESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
Desirous of neither exaggerating nor detracting
from the p()wers of mesmeric vision, I subjoin a few
general remarks upon what I observed of its develop-
ment in the case of E. A--, begging the reader at
the same time to remark the coincidence between the
feelings of this sleepwaker and of Mademoiselle
M--. Like the latter, he declared that he was not
always " i' the vein " to exercise his faculty, and that
it was a pow~r which came and went. He would some-
times say to me, ,·,Do not think that I can always see
a thing when I desire it ; on the contrary, the more
I wish the less I can do." In conformity with this,
I observed that he always did things best when sum-
moned to them without preparation, without any idea
of difficulty being raised in his mind. It was also
evident that he did not like being experimented
upon, and hence I was obliged to use a little manage-
ment with him, in order to make it appear that he
was acting without constraint. Very often it hap-
pened that he would seem stupid, and unable to per-
ceive a single thing, when, all at once, the power
would, as it were, descend upon him ; and he would
suddenly read a whole page from a book, or tell five or
six cards running. In the latter case, he was not ac-
customed to name the cards separately, as he looked at
them, butafterwards, from memory. The first time he
did this, I thought he did not know the cards. I showed
him one, and he said, without telling what it was,
" Now show me another." This also was put aside,
and so on to five; when suddenly, to my no small
astonishment, he ~epeated from memory the whole
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING, 255
five, correctly in their order. This was one of his
self-originated caprices. Another was, that he would
occasionally refuse to tell a card which he, however,
manifestly knew. That he did so I discovered in the
following manner : - He had refused to tell a card,
saying, " I know it, however." " Indeed," I replied,
"I doubt that." "Well," he said, "ask me what
the card is, as soon as I awake. Impress on my mind
that I am to remember it then, and I promise you
then to tell it you." He kept his word exactly. It
is not to be supposed, however, but that, by exercising
my influence over the will of the sleepwaker, I could
at any time compel him to execute whatever was in
the compass of his ability; but I preferred allowing
his mesmeric character to develope itself sponta-
neously. By pursuing a similar course with all my
sleepwakers, I was enabled to ascertain that the mes-
meric state, though broadly marked, has, in addition
to its striking and invariable characteristics, slight
shades of difference which individualise it in the
individual cases. These generally consist in some
little caprice, or, rather, odd development ofsensitive-
ness. For instance, E. A-- could never endure
spades amongst the cards I showed him, and Theo-
dore's sister shuddered and showed marked dislike if
wadding were presented to her, even in a box.
I have also remarked that sleepwakers, when once
disturbed by the presence of objects that influence
them disagreeably, become indisposed to a further
exertion of their faculties. Any thing like a doubt of
their sincerity will also distress them exceedingly,
256 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
and obstruct the exercise of their powers. Moreover,
they display extraordinary penetration in discovering
whieh of the persons around them entertain feelings
of incredulity or suspicion ; and, should they have to
encounter a large amount of unbelief and hostility to
mesmerism, they will become reserved and irritable,
and will fail in everything they undertake. Thus I
have known. E. A--, after having told a card held
behind a book, seem quite incapable of repeating
the effort,' from the moment that a certain person,
who .was sceptical about mesmerism, entered the
apartment. I found, too, that the sensibility of the
sleepwaker might be exhausted by a multiplicity of
experiments, or their too rapid repetition. Some-
times; after having named many objects correctly,
he would begin to make mistakes, and evidently to
guess instead of to perceive. At other moments, he
would push impatiently away from him the cards,
books, &c. that were presented to him, and exclaim,
" Maintenant je ne puis plus." Again, when allowed
to remain quiet for awhile, he would recover his
clair-voyance, in the same manner that the nervous
energy of persons in the normal state, when impaired
through over-excitement, returns to its pristine func-
tions after an interval of repose. That my own state
ofmind, or body, or both, influenced the sleepwaker,
it was impossible to doubt. Nor can this seem sur-
prising, when it is considered that I was the deposi-
tory and the dispenser ofthe agency which threw the
patient into the condition ofclair-voyance. I observed
dlat on days when my thoughts were pre-occupied, or
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 257
my health a little out of order, E. A--, in the mes-
meric state, was dull, spiritless, and disinclined to
exertion. The variations of the atmosphere seemed
also to affect \lim. In dry clear weather his mes-
meric faculties were best developed; on damp misty
days they were less alert ; and when thunder-storms
were passing they were singularly disordered. Mes-
meric passes, renewed at intervals during the period
ofsleepwaking, were, under all circumstances, favoul'-
able to the improvement or the maintaining of the
patient's clair-voyance.
It is absolutely essential that the experimentalist in
mesmerism should be acquainted with particulars
such as the above, and should inform himself of all
the conditions under which mesmeric sleepwaking
is either promoted or impeded. This has been too
much forgotten. Many fai~ures, which have stamped
mesmerism as an imposition, may be attributed~ I am
convinced, to the action of disturbing causes,.or the
absence of those circumstances which are requisite to
ensure success. That this has not been acknowledged
on all hands is, perhaps, as much the fault ofmesmer-
isers themselves as of their opponents. The former,
proud of the faculties of their pl\tients, do not like to
admit that these faculties are variable and liable to a
number of restrictions. They therefore fail to fore-
warn those whom they invite to witness their pro-
ceedings that the whole exhibition may chance to be
a failure, and that the clair-voyant of to-day may be
nothing remarkable to-morrow~ What is the conse-
quence ofthis mis.taken disingenuousness? Even they,
258 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
who, if duly advertised of the true state of things,
would be the first to acquiesce in the necessities of the
case, are revolted by finding a discrepancy between
the performance and the promise-the fact and their
expectation of the fact. Mesmerisers, then, cannot
be too careful in stating all the drawbacks to their
success ; and, at the same time, every person should,
in all fairness concede to mesmeric experiments
the same privilege which is accorded to all others,
namely, a precognition of those causes which may
render them difficult or impossible to be repeated~
At present, it may be safely asserted that never was
any subject capable of physical experiment submitted
to such unjust requisitions as that of mesmerism. It
has been expected to give the same results at all times
and under all circumstances. The truth, however,
is that mesmeric sleepwaking does not only present
different degrees in different persons, but in the same.
The patient may at one time be mesmerised, but not
to clair·-voyance; at another he may display the most
admirable faculties of the mesmeric state.
Having ascertained, in this and the previous case,
that persons under the mesmeric conditions could
exercise a faculty analogous to sight, without the
intervention of the ordinary apparatus of vision, I
was desirous still further to inquire how far the optic
nerve played a part in this development of the sen-
tient powers. In order to solve this question, it ap-
peared to me essential to mesmerise a person in
whom the optic nerves were inefficient or destroyed.
Should such a person be found to see in the mes-
.MESMERIC SLEEPWAKIN~. 259
meric state, it would thenceforth be evident that man
might possibly, in certain states, exhibit a perception
of objects of sight which could have nothing in
common with the system of ordinary vision.
Soon after the idea had arisen in my mind, ac-
cident threw in my way a lad of nineteen years of
age, a Swiss peasant, who for three years had nearly
lost the faculty of sight. His eyes betrayed but little
appearance of disorder ; and the gradual decay of
vision which he had experienced was attributed to
a paralysis of the .optic nerve, resulting from a
scrofulous tendency in the constitution ofthe patient.
The boy, whom I shall call by his christian name of
Johann, was intelligent, mild-tempered, extremely
sincere, and extremely unimaginative. He had never
heard of mesmerism till I spoke of it before him, and
I then only so far enlightened him on the subjectas to
tell him that it was something which might, perhaps,
benefit his sight. At first he betrayed some little
reluctance to submit himself to experiment, asking
me if I were going to perform some very painful
operation upon him; but, when he found that the
whole affair consisted in sitting quiet, and letting me
hold his hands, he no longer felt any apprehension.
Before beginning to mesmerise, I ascertained,
with as much precision as possible, the patient's
degree of blindness. I found that he yet could see
enough to perceive any large obstacle that stood in
his way. If a person came direct1y before him,.he
was aware of the circumstance, but he could not at
all distinguish whether the individual were man or.
260 MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
woman. I even put this to the proof. A lady of our
&Ociety stood] before him, and he addressed her as
"mein herr" (sir). In bright sunshine, he could
see a white object, or the colour scarlet, when in a
considerable mass, but made mistakes as to the other
colours. Between small objects he could not at all
discriminate. I heldbefore him successively a book,
a box, and a bunch of keys, and he could not dis-
tinguish between them. In each case he saw some-
thing, he said, like a shadow, but he could not tell
what. He could not read one letter of the largest
print by means of eyesight; but he was very adroit in
reading by touch, in books'prepared expressly for the
blind, running his fingers over the raised characters
with great rapidity, and thus acquiring a perception
of them. Whatever trifling degree of vision he pos-
sessed could only be exercised on very near objects:
those which were at a distance from him he perceived
not at all. I ascertained that he could not see a
cottage at the end of our garden, not more than a
hundred yards off from where we were standing.
These points being satisfactorily proved1 I placed
my patient in the proper position, and began to mes-
merise. Five minutes had scarcely elapsed when I
found that I produced a manifest effect upon the boy.
He began to shiver at regular intervals, as if affected
by a succession of slight electric shocks. By degrees
this tremour subsided, the patient's eyes gradually
closed, and in about a quarter of an hour he replied
to an inquiry on my part, " lch schlaffe, aber nicht
ganz tief." (I sleep, but not soundly.) Upon this
MESMERIC SLEEPWAlUNG. 261
"I endeavoured to deepen the patient's slumber by
the mesmeric passes, when suddenly he exclaimed,
his eyes being closed all the time, " I see I -I see your
hand I I see your he~d." In order to put this to the
proof, I held my head in various positions, which he
followed with his finger : again, he told me accurately
whether my hand was shut or open. "But," he
said, on being further questioned, " I do not see dis-
tinctly. I see, as it were, sunbeams (sonnen strahlen)
which dazzle me." " Do you think," I asked, ".that
mesmerism will do you good?" "Ja freilich" (yes .
certainly) he replied: "repeated often enough it
would cure me of my blindness."
Afraid of fatiguing my patient, I did not trouble
him with experiments; and, his one o'clock dinner
being ready for him, I dispersed his magnetic sleep.
After he had dined I took him into the garden. As
we were passing before some beehives he suddenly
stopped, and seemed to look earnestly at them : -
" What is it you see? " I asked. " A row of bee·
hives," he replied directly, and continued, " Oh !
this is wonderful I I have not seen such things for
three years." Of course I was extremely surprised ;
for, though I had imagined that a long course of mes-
merisation might benefit the boy, I was entirely un-
prepared for so rapid an improvement in his vision.
My chief object had been to develop the faculty of
sight in sleepwaking; and I can assure my readers
that this increase of visual power in the natural state
was to me a kind of miracle, as astonishing as it was
unsought. My poor patient was in a state of abso-
262 MESMERIC SLEEPWA'ICING.
lute enchantment. He grinned from ear to ea:r, and
called out, "Das ist prachtig!" (That is charming.)
Two ladies now passed before us, when he said, " Da
sind zwei frauenzimmer !" (There go two ladies.)
" How dressed ?" I asked. " Their clothes are of a
dark colour," he replied. This was true. I took my
patient to a summer-house that commanded an ex-
,tensive prospect. I fear almost to state it, but, never-
theless, it is perfectly true, that he saw and pointed
out the situation of a village in the valley below us.
I now brought Johann back to the house, when, in
the presence of several members of my family, he
recognised, at first sight, several small objects, (a
flower-pot, I remember, amongst other things,) and
not only saw a little girl, one of our farmer's children,
sitting on the steps of a door, but also mentioned that
she had a round cap on her head. In the house I
showed Johann a book, which it will be remembered
he could not distinguish before mesmerisation, and he
named the object. But, though making great efforts, he
could not read one letter in the book. Having ascer-
tained this, I once more threw Johann into the
mesmeric state, with a view to discovering how far a
second mesmerisation would strengthen his natu-
ral eyesight. As soon as I had awaked him, at
the interval of half an hour, I presented him with
the same book, (one of Marryat's novels,) when he
accurately told me the larger letters of the title-page,
which were as follow: -" OuTWARD BouND."
Johann, belonging to an institution of the blind,
situated at some distance from our residence, I had,
MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING. 263
unhappily, only the opportunity of mesmerising him ·
three times subsequently to the above successful
trial. The establishment, also, of which he was a
member, changed masters; and, its new director
having prejudices on the score of mesmerism, there
were difficulties purposely thrown in the way of
my following up that which I had so auspiciously
begun.
The following is the general result of my after
experiments: -
On first passing into the mesmeric state, Johann
always spoke of a kind of internal light, which he
compared to sunbeams, diffusing itself over the
region of the forehead.
Whenever I pointed the tips ofmy fingers towards
his closed eyes, at the distance of about two inches,
with a quick darting motion, he had the sensation of
a flashing light, and sparks of fire passing, as it were, •
before him.
Being led up, accidentally, to a large mirror,
when in sleepwaking, he called out that he saw
"eine grosse klarheit.'' (A great clearness.) Never-
theless, the mirror was in the shade. After this, I
conducted him to a glass door that led into the gar-
den, through which the light of day was shining
brightly, but he made no remark ; and, on being
qutstioned, declared that he was not sensible of any
peculia!' light. Again taken up to the mirror, he
again said that he saw before him much light and
clearness. By whatever route I led him up to the
looking-glass, he was always aware when he came
before it, though his eyes were perfectly closed.
264 .MESMERIC SLEEPWAKING.
Occasionally I presented the points of my fingers
to the mirror, in the same manner as to his forehead,
in order to ascertain whether he would perceive any
thing like reflected spat·ks, but the experiment did
not succeed.
Music seemed to have a pleasing effect upon him
·when.in the mesmeric state ; and .the sound of my
voice always palpably increased the depth of his
slumber.
On first awaking from mesmeric sleepwaking, the
patient's powers of vision were always stronger than
at any other time; but, in addition to this temporary
benefit, there was a gradu~l bettering of his eye-
sight, which, though less striking, was more valuable
from its permanence. Even the external appearance
.of his eyes was improved, in the course of ·mes-
merism, to a degree which attracted the notice, and
excited the wonder, of the master of the institution
to which Johann belonged.
On one occasion, being rather indisposed, I found
that I could not influence Johann so forcibly as
usual; so that, after long mesmerisation, I had only
brought him as far as an imperfect sleep, in which he
retained his consciousness. Having met with an
account ofDr. Elliotson's experiments, by which it is
proved that the mesmeric agency is capable of
increase by means of other individuals co-operating
with the mesmeriser; having also experienced the
truth of this ·when mesmerising the little sister of
Mademoiselle M-, conjointly with herself; I
requested a friend, who was present, to aid me, by
MESMERIC SLEEPWAltiNCJ. ~65
motions of the hand, in deepening the patient's
slumber. Each of us held a hand of Johann, and
each of us manipulated with the hand that remained
at liberty. The effect was very remarkabl~. In a.
short time the patient passed into complete sleepwak-
ing; but that there was a remission of the mesmeric
influence, whenever my friend ceased to 'be in contact
with me, was proved by this : Johann's head did
not then foliow my hand so readily; and, at such
moments, when questioned, he said that he did not
sleep so profoundly. The patient being still uncon-
scious, I, being always in contact with him, drank
half a .glass of sherry, when he exclaimed, sponta-
n~usly, " Das ist wohl stark. Das steigt mir im
kopf." (That is very strong. It mounts into my
head.)
The last time that I mesmerised Johann was in the
evening, by candle, or, rather, lamp light. On this
-occasion he manifested an extraordinary increase in
mesmeric clair-voyance, giving proofs that he had
sensations, analogous to sight, of a far stronger nature
than those which his visual organs could afford him
in the waking state. With ease he indicated the
relative positions of the party present, consisting of
three persons besides myself; and, though the seve-
ral individuals often and silently exchanged places,
he continued to show that he was acquainted with
the exact situation of each. Occasionally he would
remark, and always with perfect correctness, that a
lady was smiling and pointing her finger at him.
Three dahlias, which were respectively of a bright
N
!68 JIIEOIEJUC SLEEPWAJUMG.
scarlet, deep crimson, and yeHow colour, were held
before hia closed eyelids. He discriminated between
them with singular accuracy, saying, "Das ist feuer-
rotb, das ist dunkel-roth, und das ist gelb. " He
also distinguished a large leaf, which was held before
him, to be green.
The lady above a1luded to handed me a nosegay,
directing me, in English, what to do with it. Agree-
ably to her request, I gave the nosegay, consisting of
red geranium, white stock, and other flowers, to
Johann, telling him that he must select some of the-
red flowers to give to the lady. He instantly and
accurately separated the geranium from the other
flowers: "and now, I said, you must add some of
the white to your bouquet. " This he also did with
equal readiness.
Again, he told the letters, B, M, and 0, which I
wrote in a large printing hand on pieces of card and
held before his closed lids. When led before the
mirror, which was then in deep shade, being at the
farther end of an apartment forty feet in length and
lighted only by a single lamp, he, as usual, ex-
pressed his perception of "etwas hell und heiter,
(something clear and bright); but, when brought
close up to the lamp, he made no observation of the
kind. Again I took him to a glass over the chim-
ney-piece, on which the light of the lamp fell strongly,
when he cried out, "viel Iicht, viel Iicht!" (Much
light, much light !) While the patient was still in
the mE'smeric state, tea was brought in. I ate some
dry toast, while holding Johann's hand. He irni-
MESMERIC SLEEP'trA~lfO. 267
tated the movements· of mastication; and, on being
asked what he tasted, replied, " Bread ofsome kind."
Upon this one of the party present, without speak•
ing, gave me quickly a piece of sugar, signing me to
substitute it for the toast. This I did, and the sound
which I made in eating was not perceptibly changed,
yet Johann instantly and spontaneously exclaimed,
" I taste something sweet."
I here close the proofs which I have to offer, that
the perfect mesmeric sleepwaker does indeed possess
a faculty of perception apart from the mere external
mechanism of the senses. The means which I have
been led to take, in order to convince myself of this
fact, have, besides conducing to the end which I had
in view, been productive of other results, which some
persons may deem more important to the welfare of
humanity than any discovery of new modes of sens-
ation or of extraordinary developments of vision. I
have established beyond a doubt that the action of
mesmerism is highly remedial in affections of that
precious organ whereby we enjoy
" Or sight ofvernal bloom, or summer's rose,
Or fiocks, or herds, or human face divine."
Not only as regards Johann have I proved this,
but also in the case of E. A--, who, when I first
began to mesmerise him, suffered so much from
.a weakness in his eyes that he could neither see to
read nor write by candlelight. · At first, indeed,
before I became fully aware of the efficacy of mes-
merism as a remedy, E. A-, by my advice, oc-
easionally used a lotion of rose-water for his eyes ;
N2
268 JIESJURIC ILEJ.:PWAJtiiiG'.
but in aleepwakiug he declared that mesmerism
would cure him without the employment of any
additional means. The lotion, therefore, was dis-
continued, almost in the beginning of the mesmeric
treatment; and, under the beneficial influence of
mesmerism alone, the patient not only recovered the
healthy action of his sight, but, before he left me,
attained to the enjoyment of a remarkable strength
of vision.
Again, I once mesmerised another boy, nearly
blind, belonging to the same institution of which
Johann was a member. After about a quarter of an
hour's mesmerisation, he fell into a profound sleep,
which lasted for nearly four hours. Though the
patient gave no other token of being mf'Smerically
affected, his sleep was evidently the result of mesmeric
action, for neither calling to him nor shaking him
could dispel it; and he walked without awaking from
a chair to a sofa, where he remained till he awoke.
This sleep was followed by an improvement in his
powers of vision ; and, when I saw him at the insti-
tution some time afterwards, he told me that the bene-
fit had been lasting, for that he then saw better than
before I had mesmerised him, adding that he much
wished I could be permitted to mesmerise him
again.
These are facts which can scarcely be regarded
with indifference, even by those who will not see in
mesmerism a promise that transcends this life and
the purposes of our present organisation.
26t
BOOK III.
SECT. I.
CONFORMITY OF MESMERISM WITH OUR GENERA.~
EXPERIENCE.
HAVING now described the state of mesmeric sleep..
waking and its accompanying manifestations, I am
desirous of elucidating it by such reasonings as may
prepare the minds of men to receive this peculiar
phasis of our nature as a confirmed fact, not ~ an
.insulated phenomenon; -as a link in the eternal
chain of things, not as an interruption to the uni-
versal order. With this end in view, it is necessary
.to inquire under what conditions men believe that
they comprehend any thing whatever; and, this being
ascertained, it is clear that we must endeavour to place
under those conditions the object we wish to explain,
and to adapt our arguments thereupon to the dispo-
sition of the listener's mind. Attaching something
mysterious to the idea of causes in general, and to
all that relates to the explanation of unusual circu~­
stances, we are too apt to forget that causes are them-
selves but facts, and that to explain is only to mak~
~e unknown cJear by a :reference to tha_~ which w.e
N3
270 CONFORMITY 01' MESMERISM
already know. But, if we rightly consider the springs
whence arises our seeming comprehension of any
subject, we shall find that they all reduce themselves
to three very natural and intelligible sources, namely,
traditional faith- personal experience- and an idea
of adequate power.
For, I ask, when is it that we rest contented with
our knowledge of a fact?
Undeniably, then, lst, When we have accepted it,
as a received truth, from infancy.
2dly. When we have felt it in our own persons.
3dly. When we imagine that we can refer it to an
adequate cause.
For, as to the first condition of our belief, let us
consider what a multitude of things we trust in
merely because we have heard them from our nurse•s
lips, and though, these things should be mere errors,
we still find that to tear them from tl1e hold they
have upon our minds is always difficult- often im-
possible. In such a case, we do not reason upon our
notions; - we do not strive to render them more
clear;- we are indifferent about mounting to their
source; - we rest in them with simple confidence.
The very religion of many persons reposes upon such
a basis, and this, relating as it does to our highest
1hterests, may serve as an instance of the power of
early association and of the traditional credence upon
which I am insisting.
Secondly ; it is no less evident that we accept, on
the testimony of our personal experience, whatever
we find assimilated thereunto. No one dreams of
WITH OUR GENERAL EXPERIENCE, 271
.doubting that other men may sleep, eat, ·walk, or
write. The force of this principle may be gathered
from the strength of its antagonist feeling. We have
an actual repugnance to credit that which we have
not felt ourselves. To give an example of this.
There is a singular state of mind, which is known to
some, and which has been adverted to by various
poets (as, for instance, Coleridge) -
" Which makes the present, while the fla~h doth last,
Seem but the semblance of an unknown pa~t,"
when, according to Tennyson's more particular deo-
acription of this mental phenomenon,-
" We ebb into a former life, or seem
To lapse far back in a confused dream,
To states of mystical similitude.
Ifone but speakl, or hems, or stirs his chair.
Ever the wonder waxeth more and more ;
So that we say -' All this hath been before ' -
All this hath been, I know not when, or where."
Now let any one, who bas experienced this per..
plexing reference to events which he seems to have
rehearsed in some prior state of existence, speak of
the feeling to another who is wholly ignorant of it.
The latter will· very likely exclaim, as a friend of
mine to whom I described this mood of mind actu-
ally did exclaim,-" Had I ever felt any thing like
what you mention, I should think myself fit for
Bedlam."
N4
27Z . CONFORMITY OF MESMERJSit
On the other hand, he, who knows the sensatio~·
and can sympathise with it, will listen to a similar
statement without surprise, and will probably say ___;
" I can well believe this, for I have felt it myself." ·
.\ more common ·instance of this incredulity re-
specting all that lies beyond our own experience is'
our reluctance to believe that pains, which we have
never known, can really be as acute as they are re-.
presented to us. " Hejests at scars, who never felt a
wou{ld," and he, who has been always free frorn the
toothach, will almost laugh at a friend under a
paroxysm of that torment ; not because he is hard-
hearted, but be~use he eannot conceive the matter'
deeply enough to be serious.
There is an actual inherent propensity in human
nature to make personal knowledge the measure of
truth, so strong as to incline us to believe any thing
that has reference even to our prior experience. I
have read somewhere .of an old woman whose son,
returning from foreign parts, related to her the won-
ders he had seen. He spoke of flying fish, and of a
burning mountain ; but the cautious mother cried
out, "No, no, Jack! I know what travellers' tales
are ! That I'll never believe !" At last, after many
sitnilar truths rejected, the sailor, in despair, hatched
a lie, and said, "In Jamaica I saw sugar growing on
trees, and rivers of rum.'' " Ay, ay, child," ex•
claimed the beldam, "Now you speak sense. Thai
Pll well believe, for I know that rum and sugar come
from Jamaica! '' Now, in mesmerism, it is just thus.
There is much rejected that accords not with the pre-:
WITJJ OUit GENERAL EXPEitlBNCE, :l7;}
vious experience of persons, yet perhaps every .one
has his rum and sugar reservation- some greater
marvel than those which he refuses to credit. After
all, it is not the marvellousness of mesmerism that
shocks; it is only its discrepancy with each indi·
vidual's experience or figment of the brain.
In the third place, we need reflect but little in
order to perceive that we rest contented with our
knowledge of events so long as the idea of au
adequate cause for them is present to our minds.
Yet this tendency of our nature to refer events not
only to a cause, but to an adequate cause, has .not
been sufficiently distinguished from the simple pro-
pensity (also inherent in our intellectual structure),
which inclines us, when we see an effect with which
we are familiar, to suppose that its usual antecedent
either is, or has been, also, present; for we are not
only inclined to take things in connection, and to view
the relationship between them, but likewise to account
.for the phenomena we behold by tracing them to
their primary and efficient impulses. When we fail
to ascribe an event to an adequate agency, we are
troubled and discontented, and a restless idea of the
supernatural (here truest) haunts and agitates us; .on
the other hand, whenever we deem that we can assign
a sufficient cause to an appearance, however startling
and unusual, we are satisfied, and seek to know no
further. For this reason, they, who are in the habit
ofoverlooking.all the intermediate processes of nature,
and who resolve every thing at once into the power
of God, enjoy a pleasure distinct from the merely
N 5
274 COJfi'OiliiiTY O:f IIESII&KJSM'
pious one ef attributing every thing to one beneficent
Creator. They rest in a sufticient eaUJe; they are
tormented by no importunate questionings of spirit;
their answer to every enigma of the universe is ever
ready. They who arenotofthis happy, but(it maybe
suspected) indolent frame of mind, and who, at the
same time, have not knowledge sufficient to ascend,
surely and gradually, the steps of nature's temple,
are actually forced into an irregular flight upwards,
and, rather than ascribe perplexingappearances to an
inadequate cause, will attribute them to an unknown
and mysterious one (the inadequacy of which cannot
be put to the proof at least), to some cloud-born
agency, which Satters their imagination with a sense
of power. Hence, where gross ignorance prevaiJs,
superstition,with aU its notions of demoniac influences,
takes its rise ; hence, in darker ages, the learned have
been .deemed wizards, and the man of science has
been supposed to have signed a contract with Satan.
Hence, even in our own day, some, whose minds are
in arrear with time, will attribute the whole of mes-
meric agencies to the machinations of the evil one,
being unaware how much they are influenced in their
judgment by the propensity we all have to cut a knot
when we cannot untie it. But, after aU, the fondness
of 11ome persons for diabolic agency is not a little
surprising and unaccountablt>. For my own part I
had always rather rest in God than in the devil.
Observe we, too, that many a person will deem him-
self vastly enlightened bya fine word, and that hence
knowledge is too often turned into a few high-sounding
•
Wl'l'H OUR GENERAL EXPERIENCE. ·275
phrases. Wherefore is this ? A pompous term may
stand as the representative of an efficient force; and,
in the case where the event to be accounted for ap-
pears very wondrous, the alleged cause always plea~~es
the ignorant better, the more incomprehensibly it is
expressed. But, where phenomena come, or seem to
come, nearer the level of our experience, then we are
apt to explain them by some familiar force, which,
however, may have as little to do with them as any
cause with which we are entirely unacquainted. This,
however, is hard to be perceived, for, whatever we
know and have proved to be capable of effecting some-
thing, we are inclined to exalt into a power and to
force into offices alien to its sphere of operation. For
instance, every man has felt that the frequent repeti-
tion of any action increases the tendency to it. This
phenomenon of our nature we personify under the
name of Habit, and recognise the potency of its in-
fluence, binding us, as the Lilliputians did Gulliver,
not by the individual strength, but by the number, of
its subtle bands. Again, when one part of our bodie11
is deranged, another often partakes in the affection,
or, as we express it, suffers by sympathy. Sympathy,
then, must be accounted as a power, explanatory of
many mysteries of our being; so must association-
so must imitation, and a host of other shadowy im-
personations, which are but names for certain mental
or bodily states. To words like these, when hard
pushed for an explanation of any thing, we can resort
with much complacency ; not that, after having done
ao, we 1'Ulderstand the. matter one whit better tb&P
N 6
befOre, bot we bave ref"em!d it to a principle with
which we are in part acquainted, and which, ~
it the edicieot taUSe of some things, we suppose may
aJ.o produce the one in question.
Tbeee striYings after adequate causation I consider
to be the upward and ineYitable tendency of mind to
ill sooret'S of reason, teaching us by internal admo-
nitions that all phenomena whatever emanate from
thought; but, as I shall have occasion hereafter to
make some remarb on power, and whence oor notion
o( it is derived, I will, at present, advance no deeper
into this subject, having, I trust, said enough to show
that we rest satisfied with our knowledge ofevents in
proportion as we think that we can refer them to an
adequate cause; and that consequently the surest
means to obtain general credence for any fact is to
exhibit it in connection with a cau..qe which shall at
once bf' perceived adequate to its production.
Applying the above reflections to mesmerism and
its phenomena, we cannot but perceive that of the
·three great sources of human conviction which we
have been considering,-namely, traditional faith,
personal experience, and adequate agency,- there
·is not -one which has been called into play in a man-
ner favourable to our subject.
Whatever may be the ease on the Continent, it wilt
be admitted that in England the present generation
have been educated in a profound contempt and dis-
.belief of mesmerism. Thus fl'om traditional mith it
-receives no support, but the.contrary; for the les-
.sona of ·our childhood have raised a barrier betweera
-
WITH OUa GENERAL EXPEBJENCE. ~77
it and us, the- strength of which no one can have felt
more forcibly than myself.
From personal experience mesmerism is not 1888
removed; and it must be confessed that writers on
the subject, in general, have not contributed to bring
it nearer to the home-felt conviction ofmankind. Too
often they have endeavoured to illustrate it by a refer-
ence to marvels as far distant from personal experi-
ence as itself. In its behalf, ancient chronicles have
·been ransacked; classical authorities have been mar-
shalled in formidable array; the tomb has given up
its vampires, and Egyptian mysteries have been drag-
ged to light, -for what purpose? Mesmerism is
not at all rendered more credible by being bol-
stered up by histories which themselves are doubt-
ful ; nor is it explained (ignotum per ignotius) by
means of phenomena that surpass human compre.
hension.
In the third place, it appears to me that mesmerism
has not been viewed in connection with an adequate
·cause, since, as I have elsewhere observed, men of
science would refer it, with all its intellectual pheno-
mena, to a simply physical agency; while men of
imagination would force even its physical affections
into the domain of pure spiritualism.
It should then be the object of a writer on mes-
merism to supply his subject with those advantages
.of which concurring circumstances have tended to
deprive it. Others, I feel confident, will effect far
more than I can in this cause; yet I trust I shall
not be deemed presumptuous in bringing forward
278 CONI'ORMITY OF MESMERISM
aome considerations which have offered themselves
to my mind, tending to approximate at least the new
condition of man to those grounds of credibility on
which I have shown our quiet possession of truths
in general to repose.
Of the three claims to confidence, wherein mesmer-
ism is deficient, the hardest to supply is undoubtedly
that of early association. Yet even here it may be
urged that we have all, from childhood, supposed
natural sleepwaking to be an undoubted pheno-
menon of man's constitution. There are many, per-
haps, who remember to have heard tell of some
sleepwalker, whose feats have been the wonder of
their native village, who has been known to rise from
his bed, and to display, in slumber, even more than
his ordinary activity, crossing, it may be, some peril-
on~ ford, or balancing himself on the edge ofa preci-
pice, where the waking eye would sicken and the
conscious brain would reel. Who does not believe in
the l;!xistence ofsuch a state? Doctors have descanted
upon it with the precision of medical lore; meta-
physicians have examined it as a curious feature of
humanity; and the light and gay, regarding it as a mere
matter of amusement, have flocked to see its mimicry
in dramatic representation, enhanced by all the charms
of music and the faScinations of genius. Nay, in the
higher departments of scenic art, it has illustrated one
ofthesublimestcreationsofthepoetic mind: -I allude.
of course, to the tragedy ofMacbeth, in which Shak-
speare, who painted everyshade and variety of our na--
ture, has not left untouched this its most peculiar and
WITH OUR GENERAL EXPERIENCE. 27-9
interesting development. In brief, it is one of the
truths which cannot be tom from the texture of our
minds, or erased from the book and volume of the
brain.
This being the case, is there any good reason why
we should exclude from our belief so similar a state
of man as is mesmeric sleepwaking; -or, rather, is
not our conduct, on this occasion, the most striking
proof of the really inefficient grounds on which the
greater part of mankind believe or disbelieve any-
thing? How greatly we are inconsistent with our-
selves ! We hear, without one feeling ofdoubt, tales of
sleepwaking, quite as wonderful as the following ac-
count ofLadyMacbeth's sleepwaking:-" I have seen
her rise from her bed, throw her night-gown upon her,
unlock her closet, take forth paper, fold it, write upon
it, read it, afterwards seal it, and again return to bed;
-yet, all this while, in a most fast sleep :" -but,
should the very same things be stated respecting a
person under mesmerism, the name seems suddenly
to make all the difference : we no longer believe; we
cry out that it is all an imposture ;-our whole being
is in a state of hostility and agitation. Is this wise?
Is this in accord with human dignity of thought? I
would more particularly ask medical men whether
they have not been accustomed to regard as true not
only certain phenomena of natural sleepwaking, to
the full as wonderful as any which mesmerism pre-
tents, but also of catalepsy- a state under which the
most extraordinary developments of nervous sensi-
bility may take place; and I would then urge them to
28Q CONJORMITl' OF MESMERISM
examine well the real causes of their denying in on•
case what they accede to in another. Also I woul«J
inquire, with what patience they who have attended,
in a medical capacity, many an unfortunate wretch
dying of hydrophobia, can listen to the prabble of a
man who contends that human nature is liable to no
such affliction, merely because he has heard from
childhood the fact spoken ofas doubtful ? Ifno good
answer can be given to these questions, surely a rea..
sonable being; may suspect that there is some grea~
error at the root of all these discrepancies and con-
tradictions in feeling and belief; and it may be con~
tended that, if we accept traditional faith as the
ground of our confidence in .certain particulars, we
must retain it still as corroborative of the same par-
ticulars, whatever change in their nomenclature may
occur.
In truth, when we demand acceptance for many
of the phenomena of mesmerism, we only require ~
sacrifice of men's prejudices, and not a dereliction
from their ancient principles of belief.
The mention of natural sleepwaking leads us
almost insensibly into realms that border closely upon
those of personal experience. There are few of us
probably who have not, in early years, had some
touch of this malady, so incident to childhood, or, at
least, so far beheld its effects in a brother, sister, or
young relative, as to be convinced that persons may,
.being all the time asleep, perform many of the action~
of their waking hours, and answer short questions,
eith~r rationally or with a certain ingenuity. Many
WITH OUR GENEitAi. EXPERIEliCE. 281
also have perhaps had the opportunity of hearing
stories relative to sleepwaking from the lips of the
parties actually concerned in them. At least, I can
affirm that, in the course of my own experience, I
have met with several persons, who have either been
sleepwakers themselves, or have been eye-witnesses
of slet>pwaking in others. On such individual tes-
timony, I present to my reader the following nar-
rations, which show at once the connection and the
difference between natural and mesmeric sleep-
waking.
· Mr. Matthieu, president of the Academy of Paint-
-ing at Louvain,'told me that, not many years since1
having an essay to write for what the French call a
toncours, he was in an anxious state of mind. His
thoughts did not flow readily, and, after many efforts
at composition, he could not produce anything to
please himself. What was his astonishment, one
morning, to find upon his table, in his own hand•
writing, the beginning of an excellent dissertation
upon the subject which had lately occupied him I
He could not doubt that this was the work of his
sleeping hours ; -but, curious to ascertain how far
his mind would proceed with its train of thought
under the same conditions which had originated it, he
left the manuscript untouched, until he could inspect
it again after the interval of another night. The re-
sult of the experiment showed that he had resumed
the pen in sleep, and had continued his composition
in a perfectly connected manner.
- Another gent1eman, Mr. Z- of NeufchAtel, r~
282 CON:rORHITY OF MESMERISM
lated to me the following instances of his own sleep-
waking. When he was about seventeen, his father
being dead, the management of an extensive mercan.,.
tile establishment pdncipaJJy devolved upon himsel£
One day he had transacted a great deal of business,
and still there were certain invoices to be written
before the departure of some merchandise early on
the following morning. Worn out with fatigue, he
went to bed, having given orders to be called in time
to supply the deficient inventories. At day-break, ac.
cording to his directions, he was awakened by a servant,
and went immediately to his mother (who generally
assisted him in his labours), informing her that he was
ready to begin the invoices. " What can you mean? "
she exclaimed; " do not you know that you wrote
them last night? and here they are I"- At the
same time she placed in his hand the papers properly
executed, and in his own handwriting. On inquiry
it app~ared that Mr. Z-, halfan hour after he had
retired to his room on the preceding evening, had re-
turned, dressed as usual, to his mother's apartment,
where he sat down before a writing-table and com-
pleted the documents in question ; Madam Z--,
nothing doubting of his being awake at the time,
though, on subsequent reflection, she remembered
to have observed something fixed and strange about
his eyes (they were open during his sleepwaking),
-an appearance which she had attributed to her
son's fatigue and want of sleep.
On another occasion- not more than a few months
ago -Mr. Z-- formed, over-night, an engagement
WITH OUR GENERAL EXPERIENCE. 283
to cross the mountains with a party of friends, who
were to call for him early in the morning. This
arrangement gave rise to the following curious cir-
cUIDStances, which subsequently were made evident
by collating the different particulars of the case. It
happened that, on the same night, when Mr. Z-
waa fast asleep in bed, a partyofyoung men, strangers
to him, stopped under his window accidentally, and,
being not very sober, laughed and talked loudly for
some time. The noise influencing the sleepwaker,
gave him the idea that his friends were come to call
him. Under this impression he arose, threw open
his window, and addressed the party in familiar terms.
The young men, being in an irritabie and touchy
state, replied to him in no agreeable manner, until a
quarrel arose between the sleeping man and the group
below, who were in no better possession of their senses
than himself. The tumult was only appeased by the
Watchman dispersing the rioters, and counselling the
sleepwaker (not suspected to be such) to return to
bed. The next day Mr. Z- retained no recollec-
tion whatever of the events of the night, and made,
as agreed upon, the expedition with his friends. On
his return, however, to NeufchAtel, two of the gay
party, who had been under his window, waited on
him, and, to his utter astonishment, begged him to
explain why be had called to them, and, in a manner,
insulted them, on such a night. " How could I insult
you, when I never saw you before?" was Mr. Z-'s
exclamation ; and great was the perplexity of both the
parties, until Mr. Z-, remembering his addiction
284 . CONFORMITY OF . MtSMERISH
to sleepwaking, suggested an explanation, which every
circumstance tended to confirm.
Mr. M--, also of Neufch!tel, has a brother;-
who is subject to sleepwaking. The following is an
amusing specimen of his exploits in that way. Mr.
M- was on a journey with him, and one nigh~
when they occupied the same apartment, the sleep-
waker awoke the tOrmer by loud and earnest talking~
There was a light in the room, and Mr. M-- (as he
told me) could see his brother standing upright on
the edge of his bed, occasionally leaning forward and
peering over (though his eyes were shut) with the
expression of a man who earnestly gazes after som~
thing. "What is the matter with you, John?" asked
Mr.l\1-. "Oh," replied John, "take care ofyour
steps, for Heaven's sake ! Do not you see that wo
are just on the brink ofa horrible precipice?"-" Not
at all," rejoined Mr. M-; you are under a delu...
sion, and I pray you to calm yourself! "-" What ! ''
aaid the sleepwaker, "you say there is no preci..
pice? I 'll throw a great stone down to prove it to
you. - There !" he cried, snatching off his night-
cap, and flinging it on the floor,- " there it goes !
- and what an awful depth the precipice must be,.
for the stone makes no noise !"
Such facts as the above will perhaps be credited--.
just because they are not headed " Mesmerism."
They are at least sufficient to show that many of
the features of mesmeric sleepwaking have prece-
dents which are to be met with in acknowledged
phenomena co~on to man. These, however, rest
WITH OUR GENERAL EXPERI):NCE. 285
rather on personal evidence than on personal expe-
rience. The sleepwaker, when once awake, does
not remember the occurrences or the sensations of
his sleepwaking, and the spectator who bears testi-
mony to his actions is a stranger to their inward
sources.
I would, however, give mesmerism a stronger hold
upon human conviction than can be supplied by any
external proof. I would introduce it into the very
bosom and private feelings of each individual, by
showing that parts of it, so far from being removed
from our daily life, are altogether familiar to us,
though under another guise and bearing other
names.
I would prove this - 1st. As regards the produc-
tion of the mesmeric state. 2dly. As regards the
state itself.
First, then, let us inquire- Are the means by
which the mesmeric slumber is produced in any way
approximated to our experience?
The subsidiary agents, which have been found most
efficacious in aiding one person to influence another
in the manner called mesmeric, are the eye and the
hand.
Now, I would ask, who is there that has not felt the
influence of the human eye -that window of the
soul ? What is there which equally with itself arrests
attention, fascinates, fixes, calms, and subdues? Anger
is quelled before its steady gaze ; even madness be-
comes docile beneath its dominion. The late Dr.
'Willis used to say that by the eye chiefly he controlled
!86 CONFORMITY OF MESMERISM
his most refractory patients. Acting at once phyai·
cally and morally, it seems to affect the nervous
system in a real and peculiar manner; for brutes,
which cannot be supposed to be misled by imagination,
are extremely sensible to the influence of the human
eye. Nay, even to certain of the brute creation a
remarkable power of eye seems to belong. To say
nothing of some doubtful stories respecting the fasci-
nation which serpents exercise over weaker creatures,
I have seen a bird fluttering before a cat, as if held
and bound by her watchful gaze, and so almost con-
strained to offer itself a voluntary sacrifice to itl
enemy.
When we consider these things we can scarc~ly
marvel that powers even magical have been attributed,
by ignorance and superstition, to the wonderful organ
of which we are speaking; nor that diseases, and even
death, should have been supposed, in some cases, to
have originated in the stroke of an evil eye.
Now, be it remembered, that the doctrine of mes-
mel'ism is that the mesmeriser's force should become
predominant over that of his patient; and mesmeric
phenomena do really show, as I have formerly demon-
strated, that the mesmeriser's wiJI sways the patient's
volition in a very peculiar manner. The relation be-
tween the ·mesmeriser and the patient is that of acti-
vity to passivity. The one is to guide, direct, and
influence; the other is to receive, and to be influenced.
The first process, then, of mesmerism may be called
a strife between the two forces of mesmeriser and
patient. There is a will to be subdued, and a body
WITH OUR GENERAL EXPERIENcE. 287
to be brought into subjection; yet this is to be ac--
complished in all the tranquillity of a religious silence.
What instrument is adequate to such an effect ?
Surely we should at once name the eye as the great
agent in this strife. By a sort of natural instinct, we
do use it, where we wish to prevail. The meanest,
striving with another, will call the first blenching of
his adversary's gaze, -victory. Men of energetie
characters and calculated for dominion have always
been remarkable for the potency of their glances,
and have been celebrated as not only " Lords of the
lion port," but also of " the eagle eye.'' Few could
endure the searching gaze of Napoleon. The rulers
of the domain of intellect have been as famous as the
kings of the earth for a keen regard. The glance of
Dr. Johnson from under shaggy brows availed no less
than the eloquence of the sage's tongue. I remember
that Dr. Parr, who was a sort of Johnson in his way,
was very proud of his own visual prowess, and I
once heard him boast that his eye had saved the
nation.
Pitt, he.declared, was about to bring forward some
disastrous measure, when he, having previous know-
ledge of the statesman's evil intentions, repaired to
the House of Commons. "I fixed, sir," said he,
" my eye upon Pitt. I gave him one of my looks
(every body knows my looks), and he could not utter
a word, sir. He rose, stammered, and sat down
again, -and there I kept him. off his legs till Fox
had taken possession of the ear of the house; and s0
the measure, when brought forward, was nugatory.
28e CONI'ORMITY OJI' JRSJIERJSI(
Yes, yes, I think I may say that my eye saved ·the
nation."
In fact, we perceive that Dr. Parr mesmerised Pitt.
But,jesting apart, I need only refer to my reader's own
fee1ings for a testimony to the all but miraculous
powers of the human eye. It seems to be life and
will made visible ; and, when life is fied, we may ex-
claim with the poet -
" Oh, o'er the eye Death most exerts his might,
And hurls the spirit from her throne of light•.,
If the eye be po\Verful to influence and to subdue,
the human hand is not less remarkable for its sooth-
ing properties. We naturally apply our hands to any
part of our bodies in which we feel pain, and how
often are we sensible of a mitigation in our sufferings!
The mother soothes her child to sleep by the applica-
tion of her hand, and calms it into patience, when it
has received an injury, by her gentle touches. A
lady, on whose word I can rely, told me that, during
a heavy malady, she could gain no sleep except
when holding her husband's hand, and that the mo-
ment he withdrew it, however gently, she awoke.
Similar phenomena, if oftener attended to, might
doubtless press upon our remembrance and justify
mesmerism by the analogies ofcommon life. Touching
for the toothach is a sort of charm that is often re-
sorted to by the vulgar with success ; and in Con-
stantinople, I have been informed, there are men
who actually make it their business to cure tootb-
ach in this manner. Once it was supposed that a
WITH OUR GENERAL EXPERIENCE. 289
certain insect, being crushed and held to a painful
tooth, acted as an anodyne, and learned papers were
accordingly written on the virtues of this particular
remedy. Unfortunately, however, it was soon dis-
covered th~t the finger which applied the insect was
the real depository of the soothing virtue ; for the
desired efFect took place just as well without the in-
sect as with it.
A travelled friend of mine tells me that he has
seen a sort of mesmerism exercised by the dancing
Dervises of the East upon each other. After wbirl-
ing round in their mystic and exciting dance, they
are apt to fall upon the ground in strongconvulsions.
On such occasions, one of the calmer brethren comes
up to the extatie patient, and, by gentle touches of
the hand, invariably succeeds in soothing him to re-
pose.
That the hand should be an agent in dispensing
.the human or the mesmeric influence can hardly
seem wonderful to those who consider how much the
hand is identified with, and distinctive of, man.
Considering the perfection of its form, and the dis-
criminative delicacy of its touch, we can almost
pardon those who have gone so far as to affirm that
the hand alone is the efficient cause of our supremacy
over the brute creation. The tactile nerves, with
which it is so abundantly supplied, seem peculiarly
to adapt it to the task of transmitting an influence,
which, in some mysterious way, yet manifestly;,
seems to be connected with the nervous and vital
forces. In some old systems of physiology each
0
28e CG-NI'ORMITY OF MESMERISH
Yes, y~ I think I may say that my eye saved ·the
nation."
In fact, we perceive that Dr. Parr mesmerised Pitt.
But, jesting apart, I needonly refer to my reader's own
feelings for a testimony to the all but miraculo011
powers of the human eye. It seems to be life and
will made visible ; and, when life is fled, we may ex-
claim with the poet-
" Oh, o'er the eye Death most exerts his might,
And burls the spirit from her throne of light."
If the eye be powerful to infiuence and to subdue,
the human hand is not less remarkable for its sooth-
ing properties. We naturallyapply our hands to any
part of our bodies in which we feel pain, and how
often are we sensible ofa mitigation in our sufferingsJ
The mother soothes her child to sleep by the applica-
tion of her hand, and calms it into patience, when it
has received an injury, by her gentle touches. A
lady, on whose word I can rely, told me that, during
a heavy malady, she could gain no sleep except
when holding her husband's hand, and that the mo-
ment he withdrew it, however gently, she awoke.
Similar phenomena, if oftener attended to, might
doubtless press upon our remembrance and justify
mesmerism by the analogies ofcommon life. Touching
for the toothach is a sort of charm that is often re-
sorted to by the vulgar with success ; and in Con-
stantinople, I have been informed, there are men
who actually make it their business to cure tooth-
ach in this manner. Once it was supposed that a
WITH OUR GENERAL EXPERIENCE. 289
certain insect, being crushed and held to a painful
tooth, acted as an anodyne, and learned papers were
accordingly written on the virtues of this particular
remedy. Unfortunately, however, it was soon dis-
covered ~t the finger which applied the insect was
the real depository of the soothing virtue ; for the
desired effect took place just as well without the in-
sect as with it.
A travelled friend of mine tens me that he has
seen a sort of mesmerism exercist'd by the dancing
Dervises of the East upon each other. After whirl-
ing round in their mystic and exciting dance, they
are apt to fall upon the ground in strong convulsions.
On such occasions, one of the calmer brethren comes
up to the extatie patient, and, by gentle touches of
the hand, invariably succeeds in soothing him to re-
post>.
That the hand should be an agent in dispensing
.the human or the mesmeric influence can hardly
seem wonderful to those who consider how much the
hand is identified with, and distinctive of, man.
Considering the perfection of its form, and the dis-
criminative delicacy of its touch, we can almost
pardon those who have gone so far as to affirm that
the hand alone is the efficient cause of our supremacy
over the brute creation. The tactile nerves, with
which it is so abundantly supplied, seem peculiarly
to adapt it to the task of transmitting an influence,
which, in some mysterious way, yet manifestly;
seems to be connected with the nervous and vital
forces. In some old systems of physiology each
0
~86 CONFORMITY OJI' .Ml!:SIIIERISil
Yes, yes; I think I may say that my eye saved ·the
nation."
In fact, we perceive that Dr. Parr mesmerised Pitt.
But, jesting apart, I needonly refer to my reader's own
feelings for a testimony to the all but miraculous
powers of the human eye. It seems to be life and
will made visible ; and, when life is fled, we may ex-
claim with the poet-
" Oh, o'er the eye Death most exerts his might.
And hurls the spirit from her throne oflight."
If the eye be powerful to influence and to subdue,
the human hand is not less remarkable for its sooth-
ing properties. We naturaJJy apply our hands to any
part of our bodies in which we feel pain, and how
often are we sensible of a mitigation in our sufferingsJ
The mother soothes her child to sleep by the applica-
tion of her hand, and calms it into patience, when it
has received an injury, by her gentle touches. A
lady, on whose word I can rely, told me that, during
a heavy malady, she could gain no sleep except
when holding her husband's hand, and that the mo-
mt-nt he withdrew it, however gently, she awoke.
Similar phenomena, if oftener attended to, might
doubtless press upon our remembrance and justify
mesmerism by the analogies ofcommon life. Touching
for the toothach is a sort of charm that is often re-
sorted to by the vulgar with success ; and in Con-
stantinople, I have been informed, there are men
who actually make it their business to cure tooth•
ach in this manner. Once it was supposed that a
WITH OUR GENERAL EXPERIENCE. 289
certain insect, being crushed and held to a painful
tooth, acted as an anodyne, and learned papers were
accordingly written on the virtues of this particular
remedy. Unfortunately, however, it was soon dis-
covered th~t the finger which applied the insect was
the real depository of the soothing virtue ; for the
desired effect took place just as well without the in-
sect as with it.
A travelled friend of mine tells me that he has
seen a sort of mesmerism exercised by the dancing
Dervises of the East upon each other. After wbirl-
ing round in their mystic and exciting dance, they
are apt to fall upon the ground in strong convulsions.
On such occasions, one of the calmer brethren comes
up to the extatic patient, and, by gentle touches of
the hand, invariably succeeds in soothing him to re-
post>.
That the hand should be an agent in dispensing
.the human or the mesmeric influence can hardly
seem wonderful to those who consider how much the
ha.ud is identified with, and distinctive of, man.
Considering the perfection of its form, and the dis-
criminative delicacy of its touch, we can almost
pardon those who have gone so far as to affirm that
the hand alone is the efficient cause of our supremacy
over the brute creation. The tactile nerves, with
which it is so abundantly supplied, seem peculiarly
to adapt it to the task of transmitting an influence,
which, in some mysterious way, yet manifestly;,
seems to be connected with the nervous and vital
forces. In some old systems of physiology each
0
...
28e CO.NI'ORMITY 01' .MESMERISM
Yes, y~ I think I may say that my eye saved ·the
.nation."
In fact, we perceive that Dr. Parr mesmerised Pitt.
But, jesting apart, I need only refer to my reader's own
feelings for a testimony to the all but miraculous
powers of the human eye. It seems to be life and
will made visible ; and, when life is fled, we may ex-
claim with the poet -
" Oh, o'er the eye Death most exerts his might,
And hurls the spirit from her throne of light."
If the eye be polVerful to influence and to subdue,
the human hand is not less remarkable for its sooth-
ing properties. We naturally apply our hands to any
part of our bodies in which we feel pain, and how
often are we sensible of a mitigation in our sufferings!
The mother soothes her child to sleep by the applica-
tion of her hand, and calms it into patience, when it
has received an injury, by her gentle touches. A
lady, on whose word 1 can rely, told me that, during
a heavy malady, she could gain no sleep except
when holding her husband's hand, and that the mo-
mt>nt he withdrew it, however gently, she awoke.
Similar phenomena, if oftener attended to, might
doubtless press upon our remembrance and justify
mesmerism by the analogies ofcommon life. Touching
for the toothacb is a sort of charm that is often re-
sorted to by the vulgar with success ; and in Con-
stantinople, I have been informed, there are men
who actually make it their business to cure tooth-
ach in this manner. Once it was supposed that a
WITH OUR GENERAL EXPERIENCE. 289
certain insect, being crushed and held to a painful
tooth, acted as an anodynt>, and learned papers were
accordingly written on the virtues of this particular
remedy. Unfortunately, however, it was soon dis-
covered thl\t the finger which applied the insect was
the real depository of the soothing virtue ; for the
desired effect took place just as well without the in-
sect as with it.
A travelled friend of mine tens me that he has
seen a sort of mesmerism exercised by the dancing
Dervises of the East upon each other. After wbirl-
ing round in their mystic and exciting dance, they
are apt to fall upon the ground in strong convulsions.
On such occasions, one of the calmer brethren comes
up to the extatie patient, and, by gentle touches of
the hand, invariably succeeds in soothing him to re-
pose.
That the hand should be an agent in dispensing
.the human or the mesmeric influence can hardly
seem wonderful to those who consider how much the
hand is identified with, and distinctive of, man.
Considering the perfection of its form, and the dis-
criminative delicacy of its touch, we can almost
pardon those who have gone so far as to affirm that-
the hand alone is the efficient cause of our supremacy
over the brute creation. The tactile nerves, with
which it is so abundantly supplied, seem peculiarly
to adapt it to the task of transmitting an influence,
which, in some mysterious way, yet manifestly;
seems to be connected with the nervous and vital
forces. In some old systems of physiology each
0
290 CONFORMITY OF MESMERISM
part of the body had its separate spirits : there
were the spirits of the knees, the spirits of the feet,
&c. Could we adopt so fanciful a notion, we should
say that the spirits of the hand are particularly
potent. After the eye, the fingers seem to enjoy a
fuller share of the sentient and motory power than
any other part of the body. Seldom are they at
rest- seldom are their functions suspended. The
marvels of the painters', sculptors', musicians' skill
depend upon their agency. Apart from their re-
cording powers, the headwork of the poet and phi-
losopher would be vain : to them belong all the
triumphs of architecture, all the splendid results of
industry; in fine, all the success of all the ingenuity
of man. Their free and constant exercise seems
more than any thing to betoken life: the baby's
clutched hand is a type of its unfolded being. The
purposeless action of the same organ is a p•·esage of
death : " After I saw him fumble with the sheets,"
says Hostess Quickly, "and play with flowers, and
smile upon his fingers' ends, I knew there was but
on~ way."
Shall the general feeling of mankind be in vain
appealed to 'i' If that be true which Shakspeare has
affirmed - " One touch of nature makes the whole
world kin,"- the influence of the human hand must
be universally acknowledged. It has a language of
its own ; it can appeal from man to man; it can
bless, and it can curse: the most ancient belief
connects it with authority and power. The holding
up of Moses's hands gave victory to the Israelites.
WITH OUR GENERAL EXPERIENCE. 291
" And it came to pass, when Moses held up his hand,
that Israel prevailed ; and, when he let clown his
hand, Amalek prevailed." •
Gifts of healing, not less than of power, lwlong to
the hand by prescriptive right. If the potency of the
royal touch in curing the king's evil be but a super•
stition, let us remember that it took its origin from a
holy source : Christ and his disciples laid their hands
upon the sick, and they were healed. The miracles
of our Lord were remarkably accompanied by actions
of the hand t, as if they were in some manner con-
nected with that external means. In restoring sight
and hearing, he touched the ears and eyes of the
afflicted persons. Even the imparting of the gift of
the Holy Spirit followed the imposition of hands;
and this external ensign of a spiritual agency is still
retained in our church. Who that has undergone or
witnessed the beautiful rite of confirmation but has
felt its power ?
The eye and the hand, then, appear to be fitting
instruments in transmitting a potential and remedial
agency.
If we seek for such a general instance of the in-
fluence of one human being on another as may seem
like that mutual loss and gain and interchange of
vital force which is the principal wonder in mes-
merism, we have only to look at the effects produced
when young persons sleep with old. Since the days
• Exod. xvii. 11.
t See Matt. viii. 15. ; Mark ,·ii. 33., and viii. to.
0 2
~92 CONFORMITY OF MESMERISM, ETC.
of King David •, it has been known that the latter
are strengthened at the expense of the former. Some
painful instances of this have fallen under my own
observation : one, in which the future well-being of a
person very dear to me was compromised ; and I
was acquainted with an infirm old lady, who was so
aware of the benefit that she derived from sleeping
with young persons, that, with a sort of horrid vam-
pirism, she always obliged her maid to share her bed :
thns successively destroying the health of several
attendants.t .
Even amongst animals it has been found that the
young cannot be too closely associated with the old
without suffering detriment. Young horses, standing
in a stable beside old ones, become less healthy.
• 1 Kings, ch. i.
t The celebrated German physiologist, Hufeland, has re-
marked the longevity of schoolmasters, and attributes it to their
living so constantly amidst the healthy emanations of young
persnns.
MESMEII.IC CONSCIOUSNESS. 293
SECT. II.
ON THE MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
I Now proceed to assimilate the state of mesmeric
sleepwaking itself to our intimate personal convic-
tions, striving to demonstrate that all its phases and
phenomena are only intense degrees of known and
even ordinary conditions of man. I would render it
not only comprehensible, but familiar- not under-
stood merely, but also felt.
I have elsewhere remarked that there are, in the
mesmeric state, peculiarities of consciousness, of which
I postponed the consideration until I could adduce
them as explanatory of mesmeric sleepwaking. To
this portion of my subject I now turn my attention.
But, before proceeding to demonstrate that the pecu-
liar conditions of me8merie consciousness arise from
novelty of combination - not of principle, it is
absolutely essential that I should fix in what SE'nse I
use the word consciousness,- a precaution the more
necessary on account of the different significations
which have been attached to it by various metaphy-
sicians; some making it a distinct faculty of the soul,
others a necessary accompaniment of every mental
operation and in no way to be distinguished &om
the operation itsel£
.Examining, however, whence springs this diversity
0 3
...
294 MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
of notion respecting consciousness, we find that all
the confusion has arisen from this- Consciousness
is susceptible of various developments, which have
never been properly distinguished into their several
grades; one person applying the generic term in
question to one only of its specific degrees; another
equally restricting it to a different class of its oper-
ations. Dr. Thomas Bro-wn, indeed, has some ad-
mirable remarks upon the subject, and has well dis-
tinguished between the simple consciousness of the
moment and remembered consciousness. But he
has omitted to observe that there is again a difference
between these two actions of consciousness and a
third- namely, reflective consciousness, or internal
observation. It is true that he once casually observes,
" consciousness is only another name for internal ob--
servation; " but herein I conceive him to speak with
less than his usual accuracy ; for consciousness is not
another name for internal observation, but internal
observation is one of the operations of consciousness,
which, as not identical with its parent, should not
be involved with it in one common definition.
Simply to feel, or simply to pass again through a
succession of former feelings with a sense of their
relation to one personal identity, is not the same as
to be self-regardant and watchful of our own sensa-
tions as they arise. Under the last circumstances
the mind is manifestly in another state and tone of
feeling. Besides, nothing can be clearer than that
the mind may act without internal observation, while
without simple consciousness it cannot act ; since, as
MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS. 295
Dr. Brown himself logically observes, " The con-
sciousness which we have of our transient thoughts
or sensations is nothing more than the thoughts or
sensations themselves, which could not be thoughts
or sensations if they were not felt." But Dr. Brown
errs as much, perhaps, from simplicity, as others
from multiplicity, of system. Nothing, indeed, can
be more admirable than his view of the mind- not
as a bundle of faculties, but as a unity, capable of
passing into various consecutive states. Bnt, had
not this great philosopher been as anxious to reduce
all mental phenomena whatever to suggestion, as
Locke was to compress the world of intellect into the
two faculties of sensation and reflection, I think he
would have admitted distinctions which his theory
caused him to overlook. Nature, however, will not
thus be restricted. She is simple, but her effects are
manifold ; and the very necessities of our language
demand as distinctive a reference to her various
operations, as if the differences were actual, and of
kind, instead of degree. Gothe, in his Morphology
of Plants, has beautifully shown that all their various
parts are but developments of one original principle;
yet what confusion in botany would arise were some
naturalists to apply the generic word plant to the
leaves, others to the blossoms, of a vegetable ! Yet
an absurdity as gt·eat as this is committed when we
apply the generic term consciousness indiscriminately
to all the different manifestations, degrees, and
varieties of that action of intelligence. The safer
plan is to mark difference, where difference can be
0 4
•
~!16 MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS;
discerned, and to give distinct names to distinct d~
velopments, whether of matter or of mind. In doing
this, however, we have to guard against unnecessary
multiplication, and we should never omit to trace
the original source amidst the mazes of its various
channels. Simplicity of principle- variety of deve-
- lopment,- these are the points to be kept in view.
Thus, while we admit senSation, pE'rception, atten-
tion, reflection, to be excellent terms to express cer-
tain acts of the mind, we must not forget that these
SO·called faculties are but different forms and mani-
festations of consciousness. A little consideration
will show that they are truly so•.
A sensation of which the mind is not conscious is
uo sensation at all ; neither can we feel without per-
ceiving, nor perceive without, in some degree, attend-
ing to that which we perceive. When we say that
we attend to a thing, which before we barely per-
ceived, it is not that consciousness, perception, and
·attention are going on together, but that conscious-
ness has advanced through the stage of perception
into that of attention, -attention only expressing a
higher degree of consciousness, while reflection,
again, indicates a different operation of the same.
This last is attention directed towards ourselves,
instead of external things; but the principle is un-
changed. A reflection is just as much the consci-
ousness of the moment as is a simple sensation.
If it be asked, then, in what sense I use the term
consciousness, I answer, as a general expression for
every act and state of the mind. I do not say with
MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS. .297
'Reid that it is " an operation of the understanding "
(though I do grant him that it cannot be "logically
defined"- for how can we define existence ?), but I
affirm that it is the operation, not of the under~
standing only, but of the whole man. To explain
myself still further, I conceive that consciousness
stands in the same relation to the mind that physical
force does to the body. As the least of our motions
implies a degree of the latter, so does the most
trifling mental change infer a degree of the f<.ormer.
Let it be remembered, however, that consciousness,
like physical force, has no real existence out of the
subject that manifests it. Nevertheless, for purposes
of analysis, we must not only speak of it separately,
but distinguish its various intensity of action. 1n
order to do this, yet as much as possible preserve an
unbroken unity, I conceive that the best nomen-
clature for the varieties of consciousness would he
one that should ever recall the primary quality, yet
distinguish, by means of epithets, its various mani-
festations. Omitting its minor developments, .I
propose, therefore, to classify thus the operations of
the agency in question : -
Simple consciousness, - that is to say, the mind's
action in those absent and dreamy moods, when
much thought is accompanied by no reflection, and
is succeeded by no memory of the subjects ·of its
meditation.
Retrospective consciousness, -the mind's action,
when it passes through a series of former thoughta
0 5
298 MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
and sensations, without making them objects or
scrutiny.
l!ltrospective consciousness,- the mind's action,
when self-regardant. It is distinguished from mere
memory in two marked particulars. It immediately
succeeds the thought, on which it casts a reflective
glance, and it has ourselves for its object. It is a
state in which thought, and observation of thought,
succeed each other so rapidly, and with such even
alternation, as to seem identical.
But the end which I have in view compels me still
furtht'r to observe that the mind has a physical as
well as intellectual sensibility, and takP-s cognisance
of the motions and sensual conditions of the body to
which it is attached. Its observation of tht'se set'ms
to constitute a consciousness apart. The proof may
be drawn from our simplest actions. When walking
and thinking on various subjects, we never cease for
a moment to direct our limbs properly, yet never
once interrupt our train of thought, unless some
unusual circumstance should call upon us for an
unusual attention to our manner of progressing.
Now allowing, as axiomatic, that bodily motions (the
vital and involuntary of course excepted) spring from
the mind, and that, cause ceasing, effect also ceases,
we must percE"ive that to every act of the body an act
of the mind is rE"quisite. Of how many acts of the
mind, then, is walking composed ! consE"quE"ntly of
how many simple consciousnesses ! But othE'r con-
sciousnesst!s have been shown progressing idE'ntically
with these. While occupied in walking, we pre-
~IESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS. 299
served a chain of intellectual thought as consistent
and as unbroken as the physical one whereby our
external actions were directed.
This is a phenomenon of our nature, in the con-
sideration of which we may indeed cast out
" Philosophy's deep sea.-Iine, but to find
Truth's ocean fathomless."
But, while we confess it to be a mystery, we should
also value it as a blessing; for, were we forced ever
to attend to those motions, which may now be called
automatic, we should scarcely have leisure for any
other mental process. If the mind that now guides
the pen wherewith these lines are traced were occu-
pied in the mere act of writing, what would become
of the thoughts which it desires to record and to
transmit to others ?
That the physical consciousness is capable, like
the intellectual, of a triple development, is also
manifest.
It has its simple action; as when each motion of
our bodies is carelessly performed, and cannot be
remembered so as to be exactly repeated.
It has its retrospective action; as when we re-
member and repeat, yet do not observe our motion
(in the case of playing an air from memory, for ex-
ample, while we are thinking of something else).
And,
It has its introspective action ; as when we attend
to our footsteps, in descending, with precaution, a
snow-covered and slippery hill.
0 6
300 MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
It would be easy to show the various states pro-
duced by the mixture of these elements in various
proportions, tracing the degrees from the constant
self-scrutiny, both mental and physical, that some
persons carry on in society, when they observe their
every least word, fearful to utter aught amiss, and
their own least gesture, lest they should commit an
awkwardness, to the unmixed and simple conscious-
ness of reverie. But this would lead me too far from
my present purpose. The two states above men-
tioned may be taken as the extreme points of con-
sciousness, while its medium condition may be found
in. our usual and habitual modes of conduct, when
we are sufficiently attentive to o~r motions, not to
knock our heads against a wall, and to our thoughts,
as to be sure we are thinking.
Regarding these states according to their value,
we find that in none of them would man ever be
capable of much inteHectual exertion. In the first,
the attention is too generally diffused, in its opposite
.too restricted, in the medium too alternating. would
we find man's distinguishing stamp of mental supe-
riority, we must seek it in a fourth state- namely,
that of abstraction, in which the pure intellectuality
reigns nearly alone, and almost free from any dis-
turbance of the introspective consciousness, which,
.being of itself an act, annihilates, pro tempore, all
other acts. Were we perpetually to exercise the re-
flex act of the mind, and to pause upon our thoughts
with self-observation, our train of ideas would halt,
and fall to pieces for want of connection.
MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS. 301
But this is not all. Any admixture of the intro-
spective consciousness detracts from the perfection of
once-acquired and habitual motions, as much as it •
spoils the freedom and bold expansion ofour thoughts.
Of this we may soon convince ourselves. Though
generally insensible to the act of breathing, we may,
by attention, become aware of the process. What
follows? An immediate sense of uneasiness, ·and an
interruption of that regular motion which seems to
go on so well by itself. Again, that winking of the
eye, whereby the organ is healthily preserved, becomes
a torment, if we think about it. If these instances be
objected to by persons who would confound the above
·motions with such as are vital and involuntary, I may
appeal to a known phenomenon, which regards the
voluntary motion of our fingers. Every musician
must have felt that, when he has learnt to play a
piece of music by heart, if he thinluJ upon the direc-
tion of his fingers, he is apt to play false. Let him
trust to the simply memorial consciousness of his phy-
sical being, and he does not err. I have even known
persons successfully consult this memory ofthe fingers
(as it may be called) when they have in vain ques-
tion~d their intellectual memory. I rememb~r a lady
trying to recall an air, which once she could execute
on the piano, and she could not do this, until she
had (as she expressed it) " ceased thinking about it,
and let her fingers go of themselves." Again : the
operations of memory are impeded by the introspec-
tive consciousness. As Darwin, in his Zoonomia,
observes,-" We frequently experience, when we are
MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
doubtful about the spelling of a word, that the greater
voluntary exertion we use- that is, the 11Wre interuely
• we think about it, the further we are from regaining
the lost association, which readily recurs when we
have become careless about it."
Introspective consciousness, then, appears equally
to mar our liberty and our memory both of thought
and of motion; and consequently it should seem that,
in proportion as we can be exempted from its inter-
ference, we must attain a higher state of intellect and
of corporeal activity.
This we may surmise ; but proof is not wanting
to confirm it to us. The state of the philosopher
who solved the problem of the universe was avowedly
a state of abstraction and of self-forgetfulness ; and
it is equally well known that natural sleepwakers,
who can never be supposed capable of self-scrutiny,
will achieve feats, which would be the horror of
their waking moments. They will stand, self-balanced,
on the ridge of a house, where, under the usual con-
ditions of consciousness, they could not preserve their
equilibrium for a single moment : they will cross a
roaring torrent on a single plank;- but, ifsuddenly
awakened to a contemplation of themselves or theil'
situation, they will lose their footing, or perhaps die
of alarm. Are these examples too far removed from
general experience ? We will then bring the matter
at once home to' every one's personal feelings. What
is it that accompanies and adds to the awkwardness
caused by timidity ? An over-watchfulness, a care
that mars itself- in fine, the too predominant pre-
MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS. 303
sence of the introspective consciousness. The shy
scarcely ever forget themselves, as it is called-'
make them do so, and their deportment is at onee
improved.
Consciousness having now been defined, and its
principal varieties ofaction noted, it will be instruc-
tive to observe how far it is peculiarly modified in
mesmeric sleepwaking, and how far it is acting in
harmony with known and established laws. On
examination, I imagine it will appear that mesmerism
is not that violation of nature's order which it has by
some been deemed to be; -but that, on the contrary,
the changes, which it induces in our being, are in strict
accordance with well-known principles, which are of
the commonest application, and which may be easily
tested in ourselves.
First, then, we have gathered, from the observ-
ations which have lately been brought forward, that,
in proportion as introspective consciouness is annulled,
the powers of thought and of motion are developed.
Now that the mesmeric state, compared by some to
that of slet>p, by others to that of delirium, can be a
state of self-watchfulness, no one will, I think, main-
tain. It is what is vulgarly called a state of complete
unconsciousness. In corroboration of this, it may be
observed that mesmerised persons speak with a free-
dom, instances of which being related to them in their
waking condition cause them surprise and even vexa-
tion. Anna M-, in sleepwaking, once lectured
me on burdening myself with so many effects in
travelling, and yet, in her natural state, almost wept
304 MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS,
to think she had been guilty of so much rudeness.
It was plain that, when awake, she was able to reflect
upon her own conduct in a manner which she could
not while sleeping mesmerically.
Again : sleepwakers seem wholly unable to
scrutinise their own sensations, and, if questioned
concerning them, will (as I have in other places re-
mark<'d) give confused and even irrational replies.
Moreover, ifasked to be self-observant, when P<'rform-
ing any thing, their actions come to a stand still, and
the very efforts which they make at reflection prove
their inability to exercise that faculty.
Introspective consciousness, then, may be pro-
nounced to be absent in the mesmeric slumber;
and, consequent upon that absence, we find- exactly
as in the normal condition ofman -an improvement
both of thought and motion in the mesmeric sleep-
waker. Proofs of this will be found in former pages
of this work. Not only have mesmerised persons been
shown to reason with a perspicuity of which they
were incapable at other times, but to display a grace
and freedom of gesture wholly different from the
constraint of their habitual deportment.
Thus the perfection of motion, and superior coher-
ence of thought, which mesmeric sleepwakers dis-
play, in connection with the absence of introspective
consciousness, is but a higher grade of a known con-
dition,- the extension and not the alteration of a
principle.
MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS. 305
Tbe second law of our riormal condition, with which
I would show the mesmeric state to coincide, is -
that, In proportion as the intellectual consciousness
is heightened in its character and spirituality, the
physical consciousness is deadened and depressed.
The accuracy of this position may be tested by
every one under the most common circumstances of
life. In states of even trifling .abstraction we become
insensible to slight bodily discomforts; and, while me-
ditating inwardly on themes that are interesting to
us, we frequently maintain one position until our
nerves are compressed and our circulation hindered
to a degree sufficient to compel us back to our phy-
sical sensations. Again : when we are suffering from
slight headach, or other temporary derangements of
the system, should any subject strongly rivet our at-
tention, we bE'come, by degrees, less and less sensible
of the inconvenience, and, at length (as it is phrased)
forget our pains. The principle runs through all
mankind- from infancy to age. A child falls,
·receives a hurt, and begins to cry. Speak to it-
arouse its mental activity, and its tears cease long
before the mere mechanical \njury that set them flow-
·ing has been done away. Pursuing the same law to
its higher instances of application, we arrive at the
holy abstraction of religious men and the elevated
faith of martyrs, who have smiled on bodily anguish
to the last, not only triumphing ovt>r, but becoming
·insensible to, agony, while their songs of praise and
joy ascended to heaven from the torturing wheel or
· .the consuming flame.
806 MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
But this entire spiritualising of humanity is of rare
occurrence, and, should we desire to behold the more
striking conquest of mind over matter, it is plain that
we must seek them in some other than our normal
condition, -amidst our loftiest abstractions, as we
are at present constituted, the body drags us down to
earth. Those busy inlets of conscious sensation,
which yield us so many pleasures and so many pains,
are continually marring the higher processes of our
intellect by their exquisite capacity to receive im-
pressions. A Newton's chain of thought may be for
ever broken by the buzzing of an unlucky fly; and
Jinks so subtle, when once severed, how difficult are
they to be again united I The power of total ab-
straction were, to great minds, power indeed I In
sleep, it is true, our senses are under a strict warden-
ship, but then reason is also fettered. Yet even from
sleep we may gather how much stronger is the force
of mind, when no longer dissipated by external
things. Every one who has dreamed of sort·ow and
alarm will confess with what unusual awfulness their
stern images have stood fllrth from amidst the sur-
rounding blankness of slumber. It is only in sleep
that we can become, as it were, one thought of
agony. Our impressions are then violent, because
they are unmitigated. There is none of that counter-
poise of the senses, which, under true waking sorrow,
we acknowledge to be so merciful a part of our con-
stitution; for, could we live under the pressure of
some' afflictions, did not external things sometimes
take us off from ourselves? Occasionally, also, we
MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNEIS. 307
enjoy in sleep, happiness which appears to be more
than earthly,-
" Dreams such as lull the hermit in his shades."
Yet, strong as are the bands which slumber can cast
around us, the senses are not always so entirely fet-
tered but that their imperfect action shall dimly
influence the nature of our visions. Moreover, a
mere touch, a casual noise, may at any time disperse
the most agreeable pictures of sleep's shadowy crea-
tion, and recall us at once to the world and to the
pressure of all its trifles, -
"Hesvy as frost, and deep, almost, as life."
Where then shall we find an abstraction so profound,
yet so peculiar, as to bind the senses fast, yet leave
the intellect a wider scope, a vigour more effective?
These conditions we find alone united in the mes-
meric slumber. More perfect than any that opiates
can produce, it js also so far beyond the reach of
accidental dispersion that painful surgical operations
have been performed during its continuance. Yet,
on the other hand, reason, which in the natural sleep
is either quenched, or but feebly active, burns
brighter in that which we are now considering.
That mesmeric patients speak always truth, is no
doubtful proof of this, - they perceive all the irra-
tionality of falsehood. Be it observed, too, that the
insensibility of the body under mesmerism, bears no
resemblance whatever to the deadness caused by
308 MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
narcotics or any thing that affects the mere m~
chanism of existence. The mind of the mesmeric
sleepwaker is not benumbed together with the body,
but it has retired into its inner fastnesses, with all its
.susceptibilities and functions unimpaired. It medi-
tates, and is absorbed, and gives to the countenance
(even should the physiognomy in general be of no
elevated cast), a loftier character, and a look of in-
ward contemplation, which has frequent1y struck even
the most careless observer of the mesmeric slumber.
To the state of abstraction, then, a state so well
known in its inferior degrees to all persons, mes-
meric sleepwaking bears no trifling analogy, and it
exhibits the two phenomena ofintellectual activity and
corporeal deadness, heightened indeed to an extra-
ordinary pitch, yet still preserving the same coexist•
ence which they present in ordinary life.
A third law of our being, with which mesmerism is
in perfect harmony, is the following.
Consciousness, whether it relate to sensation or to
intellectual exertion, acts more forcibly the more it is
brought to bear upon a single point.
Who has not felt that the senses, by their simul-
taneous action, are restrictions the one upon the
other? How seldom can we be wholly absorbed in
the pleasures of the eye ! How seldom, when listen-
ing to swet't sounds, can we become " all ear ! "
There is almost always a something to be deducted
from our feelings by the interference of some other
sense than that we desire to exercise. Were all our
capacities of sensation concentrated upon any one
MESliERIC CONSCIOUSNESS. 309
property of matter, we may judge how much stronger
would be the force of our perceptions, by observing
that, where one sense is actually wanting (as in the
blind or deaf, for instance), the vivacity ofimpressions
reeeived through the other organs is greatly in-
creased. We may remark, too, in ourselves, that
not only the stillness of night, but its obscurity,
which concentrates our attention upon objects of
hearing, quickens the auditory powers in an extra-
ordinary degree.
Again, as regards the exercise of our mental capa-
cities, experience inculcates, as one of the precepts of
wisdom, that, if we wish to do a thing perfectly, we
must do it singly ; and, though stories have been told
of great, or would-be great men, who have played
games at chess and dictated letters to secretaries at
the same time, it has not been said that the chess
would not have been better played and the letter
better composed, bad the attention been directed
solely either to one or the other. Napoleon had an
extraordinary power of directing his mind, when
needful, to a multitude of simultaneous occupations;
but, when tracing the plan of a battle, he sate alone
in his tent, and watched while others slept. Besides,
correctly speaking, it is not pretended that the mind
can do more than one thing at once, it merely leaps
from one object of attention to another with astonish-
ing swiftness and versatility; while, in that very
versatility it loses force, and abjures that continuity
which is the element of greatness.
When then we find that there is a remarkable
310 MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
singleness in the consciousness of mesmeric sleepa
wakers, and that whatever they do absorbs them
wholly, we shall perhaps have less reason to be
astonished at the great eminence to which their per-
ceptive and reasoning faculties attain. Indeed, the
concentration of the mind, in mesmerism, is such as
I 'Should imagine to be unattainable under any other
condition,- all the bodily organs being, as it were, ·
annulled, there are none of those conflicting con-
sciousnesses which, in actual life, destroy each other,
like meeting waves in water. Whatever source of
perception mesmerised persons possess appears rather
to consist in one sense than in many, -in one sense
which can become each of the others, so that he, who
exercises it, seems to become, by turns, a hearing,
seeing, or feeling unity.
It occurs to me here to make a remark connected
with this part of my subject.
Persons in the mesmeric state, however generally
sentient to any injury inflicted on their mesmeriser,
will, if expressly employed by him in any absorbing
effort, appear heedless of those experiments of pain
which may be tried upon him. This is but a natural
result of rtheir singleness of perception; and, more-
over, it is evident that all persons, ('Ven in the normal
stat(', will be insensible to pain, if it bear an inferior
proportion to the degree of their mental abstraction.
Yet some persons have triumphantly referred to this
as a proof of the nullity of an experiment, which
f)nly failed because it was not tried under the proper
and necessary conditions.
MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS. 3ll
On the whole, it appears that the increase of per-
ception and of mental power in mesmerised persons,
found as it is in combination with a concentrated
attention, is in exact accordance with the constitution
of our intellectual and physical being.
Yet more than this, the forgetfulness, in the waking
state, of thoughts which occupied the mind during
mesmeric sleepwaking, is in harmony with other
known phenomena of consciousness.
It appears to be a law, that the less ofintrospective
consciousness has been present to a state, the le~s
memory is there of that state.
This is evident; for, when we have been engaged
in a reverie, or a series of simple consciousnesses,
which die as soon as born, - " the perfume and sup-
pliance of a minute," that we have b~n thinking is
very sure, but of the subject matter of that thinking
we retain no recollection. Locke says, " I confess
myself to have one of those dull souls, that doth not
perceive itself always to contemplate ideas;" and the
poet Cowper, evidently copying from the illustrious
metaphysician, before drawing an admirable picture
of himself in a reverie, confesses
"Fearless, a mind that does not always think."
Every one will probably be ready to make a similar
avowal; but we must not forget that this state of
apparent no-thought, is, in fact, only one of our
modes of thinking. Acknowledging that we do not
perceive ourselves always to contemplate ideas, we
I
312 MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
by no means affirll) that we have not always ideas to
contemplate (though, indeed, I believe Locke meant
his readers to draw such a conclusion), and the
absence of the reflex act of the mind, whereby we
are, as it were, present to ourselves, cannot annihilate
the simple unreflective action of momentary con-
sciousness. Cowper, indeed, by his description of
the objects which he ~as Sf'en in his winter's fire,
during what he calls " a waking dream," proves that,
in that dream, his mind, though but idly busy, was
still employed, nay even somewhat attentive to•i!,cown
operations, for he remembers vaguely the shadowY
ideas that floated across his fancy. It is not every
one, however, who can have a poet's reverie, or tum
it to such good account as Cowper. In general,
when we have fallen into what some call " a brown
study," the fit is succeeded by a total forgetfulness of
the elements which composed it, and the friend who
startles us ft·om our absent mood, by tapping us on
the shoulder, and exclaiming, "a penny for your
thoughts," can obtain no other answer than " I was
thinking of nothing.'' Still we retain a confused
notion that the apparent bli.mk was really peopled by
the ever-restless mind; though, not having observed
our thoughts, we feel that we cannot remember them.
This is common reverie ; but there is a deeper
degree of it than this. In some cases, as Darwin has
remarked, " it becomes a formidable disease;" and
this advanced stage of a mood, which is experienced
in a less degree .~Y us all, is characterised (acording
to the authority JUSt quoted) by " the total forge~-
MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS. 313
fulness of what passes" during its continuance, and
" surprise on recovering" from it.
Observe, too, how the loftier state of abstraction
indicates the !!arne proportion between the intro-
spective consciousness and memory.
In abstraction, Jl.8 I have already shown, there is
but a low degree of self-observation present ; for
from the moment that we examine our springs of
thought too curiously they cease to play. But it may
further be remarked that, during abstraction, the
rey{( Mctive consciousness supplies the place of the
introspective, we stopping from time t.o time to re-
view our thoughts, and to fix in our own memories
that which originated from our own minds. Only in
so far as we do this, are the workings of our intellect
rendered permanent. Should any one suddenly in-
terrupt our train of ideas, in one of our inattentive
intervals, or before the whole series is connected and
complete, how often we (to use a common expression)
"lose the thread of our thoughts," which by no effort
'of memory we can recover.
In abstracted study, also, it should be remembered
that we are often writing down the actual thoughts
of the moment, making our pen the engraver of our
ideas, and our paper the organ of our remembrance.
Thus is preserved much of our brain-work, which
otherwise would have perished in the thinking. This
is more than conjecture ; for often, after a few hours,
we have so far forgotten our compositions, as to read
them with what is called "a new eye," and to detect
faults in them which surprise ourselves, they having
p
31, . JIES!In:RIC CONSCIOVSlUIS.
escaped our observation so long aa our e!Fervetein~
fmcy predominated over our self-consciousness. Dr.
Johnson, it is well known, met with his own Raaselas
many years after its publication, and read it, as he
himselfdeclares, with as strange a feeling as if it had
been the work ofanother person. In Lockhart's life
of Scott, a similar and more remarb.ble phenomenon
is recorded. The great novelist composed that grand
story, the Bride of Lammermoor, while suft'erio~
from excruciating spasmodic attacks which causei
him to have recourse to frequent doses of laudanum.
·Htt dictated nearly the whole work under these
painful eircumstaaces; and it is said that, " though
he often turned himself on his pillow, with a groan
of torment, be usually continued the sentence io the
same breath. But, when dialogue of peculiar ani-
mation was in progress, spirit seemed to triumph .
altogether over matter-he arose from his<:oueh,aJKl
walked up and down the room, raising and lowering
llis voice, and, as it were, acting the parts."
But what is most extraordinary is, that, after the
book was published, Scott assured James Ballantyne
that, " when it was first put into his hands in a com~
plete shape, he did not recollect one single incident,
character, or conversation that it contained f ' For a
long time,' he said, 'I felt myself very uneasy, in the
course of my reading, lest I should be startled by
meeting something altogether glaring and fantastic.'"
Ballantyne, by whom the anecdote was preserved,
adds, " I do not think I ever ventured to lead to the
discussion of this singular phenomenon again ; bot
IIESJIIERIC CONSCIOUSNESS. 315
you may depend on it, that what I have now said is
as distinctly reported as ifit had been taken down in
short-hand at the moment; I should not otherwise
have ventured to allude to the matter at all. I
believe you will agree with me in thinking that the
history of the human mind contains nothing more
wonderful."
A similar instanee (though on a small seale) of the
mind's forgetfulness of its own previous operations
fell under my own cognisanee.
Some years ago, I met once in society poor Mrs.
Maclean - then the ad001ired L E. L. A song_ was
'sung, the WOI'ds of which struck me as very beautiful,
and .the young poetess seemed to be of the aame
opinion, for she expressed her admiration of them
warmly, asking at the same time, who wrote them?
The gentleman who had sung the song laughed, and
said, " Surely you remember your own poetry !'!
It was a long time, however, befOre the authoress
could be made to recall when or where she wrote the
words; which, however, at last she recognised as
one of those improvisations which she was accuso-
tomed to write down, give away, and never think of
again.
That we occasionally remember the dreams that
we have had in sleep may be urged as contradictory
of the theory I am advocating ; for .can dreaming, it
may be asked, in any way be"called a state of intro-
spective consciousness? I reply, certainly it can and
must. Nothing is more evident than that, in.
dreaming, the mind watches its own fantastic traiu
p 2
316 MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
of thought, since what is the imagery of our dream~
hut its own creation, and who is the spectator of that
imagery but itself? There is in the phenomenon of
dreaming an especial duality of action, only to be
explained (unless, indeed, we admit, with some wild
author, whose name I forget, that all our dreams are··
the work of spirits,) by that reflex act of the mind
which is so swift in its operation as virtually to double
our existence. Moreover, it is to be remarked that
natural sleepwaking -a state very different from
that of common sleep -is almost always succeeded
by complete forgetfulness. The exceptions occur
when the patient's visions more resemble those of
ordinary dreaming, and when the mind has been
manifestly more employed about its own creations
than about those real external objects which often
seem to influence the sleepwaker, though in a wild
and ooconnected way.
We may then dismiss, as uncorroborated by any
fact whatever, the notion that we can remember any
past series of thoughts to which introspective con-
sciousness has been altogether wanting; conse-
quently, that mP.Smeric patients should forget all
that occupied them during their sleepwaking is no
miracle, but an absolute illustration of nature's laws.
But still further, if we choose to acquiesce in the
structure of our own being, and to examine laws
rather than frame them, ·we may perceive that the
sleepwaker must naturally resume his mesmeric re-
collections, when he returns to the mesmeric state ;
for is it not a principle, that a former series of
MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS. 311
thoughts should recur to us then, and then only, when
we are under conditions ofconsciousness similar to those
in which they were conceived?
Let any one reflect how he sets to work, when,
having what is called lost the thread of his ideas, he
would take it up again at the point where it was dis-
severed. Does he not endeavour to place himself in
the same state and frame of mind, in fact, to regain
the same conditions of consciousness in which he was-
when conceiving the lost idea? Most certainly. And
what is also to be remarked is, that a restoration of
even the same conditions of physical consciousness,
under which our intellectual trains of thought were
engendered, greatly promotes our recollection of the
latter. Not only a particular position of mind, but
a particular posture of body, aids us to regain a
frame of feeling to which it has become associated.
When we throw ourselves on our knees, our prayer
of childhood seems to recur of itsel£ .There are some
even who can only pursue their trains of thought
while engaged in some exertion of the physical con-
sciousness which has become familiar to them. The
following anecdote from the memoirs of Sir Walter
Scott will illustrate this truth. It is recorded in
a memorandum of his own. He says, " there was a
boy in my class at school who stood always at the
top, nor could I with all my efforts supplant him.
Day came after day, and still he kept his place, do
what I would; till at length I observed that when
a question was asked him, he always fumbled with
his fingers at a particular button in the lower part of
P3
318 JDIJIEBIC CONSCIOUSNE88.
his waistcoat. To remove it, therefore, became ex-
pedient in my eyes; and, in an evil tnoment, it was
removed with a knife. Great was my anxiety to
know the success of my measure - and it succeeded
too well. When the boy was again questioned, his
:fingen sought again for the button, but it was not to
be found. In his distress he looked down for it- it
was· to be seen no more than to be felt. He stood
confounded, and I took possession of his place."
Again, we may observe that that action of the
physical consciousness, which relates to the operation
of our senses, is far more linked with memory than
is the intellectual operation of consciousness. That
which we have seen, heard, and felt, we remember
far more strongly than that which we have only
thought. The immediate action of the sensual con-
sciousness is also peculiarly renovative of that which
is past. The smell of a flower, which we knew in
former days, will recall a thousand old forgotten
feelings ; and the tinkling of a sheep-bell will bring
before us the wild heath, or the grassy hill-side,
where our childhood sported. Thus, when the poet
invokes memory, he does not summon her to appear
in the pomp of intellectual splendour, but he says-
" Come from the woods that belt the grey hill-side,
The seven elms, the poplars four,
That stand beside my father's door,
And chiefly from the brook that loves
To purl o'er matted cress, and ribbed sand,
Or dimple in the dark of rushy coves."
TENNYSON.
\
MESMERIC CONSCIOUSNBU. 319
Now let us consider that, to a mesmeric patient,
the ordinary sensual consciousness is closed, - that
the motive of consciousness has eeued to be intro-
spective,-in fine, that all the conditions of conscious-
ness are unusual. Can we, then, wonder, either that
he caimot grasp mesmeric memories in his normal
state, or that he should return to them with ease and
perfection as soon as the unwonted conditions of his
mesmeric existence are restored? To understand
this perfectly, we have only to extend the principle
whereby we lose or recover any train of thought
whatever. Thus epileptics have been known to finish,
in a new paroxysm of their complaint, a sentence
begun in an attack which had occurred days or weeks
before; and every one must remember the quaint story
of the old gentleman who, in passing a particular
bridge, answered a question that had been put to
him long ago on the same spot. " Do you like peas
or beans best for dinner ?" his old domestic had in-
quired, as he rode soberly behind his master. There
was no reply; -but, just a year after, when master
and man were jogging on as before, the former
turned slowly round, and said, " Peas, John."
Certain facts, relative to the mesmeric state, still
further confirm our previous view of the question.
Sometimes, when mesmeric sleepwaking is not perfect,
it seems to alternate with the natural state; and the
patient, occasionally waking, as it were, for a few
moments, employs his ordinary senses in the ordinary
way. Now, by frequent experience, I have ascer-
tained that the remembrance which these patients
P4
320 llriESMERIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
retain of circumstances that occurred during their
sleepwaking is in exact proportion to the usual action
of their senses; in other words, to their approxima-
tions to their ordinary conditions of consciousness.
The real waters of oblivion - the fabled Lethe -
is only to be found where consciousness flows on
through channels that are altogether unwonted.
Thus, then, if I have shown, in a former book,
that mesmeric sleepwaking is a peculiar state, and
therefore worthy of distinct investigation, I have now
proved that, though peculiar, it is in harmony with
the general laws of our mental constitution ; and
therefore proper to be classed with other metaphysical
phenomena incident to man. I am, indeed, far
from saying that it presents no extraordinary ap-
pearances; but I must assert that it is by no means
one of those subjects in which we cannot arrive at
a comprehension of things unknown by that with
which we are already acquainted. Every common
reverie is a sort of mesmeric slumber; and an absent
man lives, as it were, in a mesmeric world. In order
to have a perfect idea of mesmeric sleepwaking, as far
as regards the patient merely and his mental condi-
tion, we have only to imagine a fusion between the
two known states of reverie and of abstraction; for the
mesmeric sleep approximates to the first in its single-
ness of consciousness, its deadness to external stimu-
lants, and its complete after-forgetfulness: while it
resembles the latter in coherence of thought and in-
tellectual development.
MESMERIC SENSATION. 321
SECT. III.
ON MESMERIC SENSATION,
HAVING shown that the metaphysical condition of
mesmeric patients is in harmony with general laws
and with personal experience, it is now my intention
to offer sofne observations, whereby the phenomena
of sensation, in the me!meric statE', may also be
brought nearer to our convictions.
In attempting this, I must necessarily sometimes
abandon the region of purely personal experience.
The real causes of even our ordinary sensation
(though they may be made mathematically evident
to reason) are themselves at variance with our com-
mon feelings, and are altogether hidden from the per-
ception of the vulgar. Yet to these real causes I
must appeal in explanation of mesmeric phenomena.
In order to reveal one and the same base for normal
and for mesmeric sensation, I must pierce that which
seems, and penetrate to that which is. Yet will it, I
trust, be found that, wherever the subject permits, I
retain that best mode of argument- the argumentum
ad hominem.
Already I have remarked that, sensation being
really seated in the mind, a change in its pre-requi-
sites can never imply an abolition of itself. But we
may affirm more than this, and adduce facts which
p 5
Ml:SMERIC SENSATION.
shall afford us the strongest presumption that, in the
mesmeric state, the pre-requisites of sensation, how-
ever changed, are only altered in conformity with
established laws ; in fine, that the development of
mesmeriC? feeling is in perfect accordance with nature.
That it has not hitherto appeared so, seems to be rather
the fault of its expositors than the necessity of its own
mode of action. ·They who would examine into
the conditions of mesmeric perception are, in gene-
ral, so engrossed by its more prominent and super-
ficial wonders, that they rest in external differences
of development, instead of going deeper to discover
internal identity of origin. They look merely to un-
usual efFects, and do not consider that the causes of
these may be such as are actually familiar to us.
The pervading peculiarity of mesmeric perception
may be thus briefly expressed : -
Inaction of the external apparatus of the senses,
co-existent with the life and activity of some inner
source of feeling.
That such an apparent anomaly is not so far re-
moved from the ordinary operations of our being, as
on a cursory view of things we might suppose, I trust
in the course of the following reflections to demon-
strate.
Every fact, adduced to prove the reality of mes-
meric perception, has been hitherto met with but one .
argument, which your established formalist- your
limiter of Providence and its resources, deems un-
answerable. " Our external organs are the sole ap-
pointed means of sensation. How would you then
MESMERIC SENSATION. 828
that we should perceive any thing without their
aid?"
That there is a flaw in this reasoning is not so
difficult to be discovered. It is a mere begging of
the question, and proceeds altogether upon an as-
sumption, the fallacy of which I will, at least, endea-
vour to expose.
Many and striking are the circumstances which
assure us that the nerves are the true media of
sensation, to which the external organs are only
instrumental and subsidiary.
For, in the first place, from the anatomist we may
learn that many apparently essential portions of the
external senses may be removed, or may exist not,
without any perceptible difference in sensation. As
regards the ear, we find that "the pinna is not indis.
pensable to hearing ; for, both in men and animals,
it may be removed without any inconvenience beyond
that ofa few days." Again : " The membrane of the
tympanum may be torn, or even totally destroyed,
without deranging the hearing in any sensible de-
gree ; " and " the loss of the smaH bones in the tym-
panum, with the exception or the stapes, does not
necessarily incur a loss of hearing."
With respect to the sense of smelling, it appears
that " the olfactory apparatus is but little developed at
birth. The nasal cavities, the different convoluted
bodies searcely exist; the sinuses do not exist at all,
and yet the faculty of smelling appears to exist." •
• Milligan's Magendie.
p 6
3~4 MESMERIC SENSATION.
Nay, even parts of a mechanism so wondrous as
that of the eye seem not to be essential to vision.
"The contraction of the pupil, though it assists
our vision of distant objects, is not absolutely neces-
sary, since Davie} has shown that patients having the
pupil immovable see well enough." Also, " Persons
who have had the lens removed for cataract, still
see sufficiently well.'' •
Considerable alterations, then, may occur in the
external apparatus of the senses without sensation be-
ing impaired. But is this indifference, as to losses in
their structure, shared by the nerves ? Far from it.
The smallest abstraction- the slightest change, even,
is of consequence here ! Whatever deranges the
nerves manifestly introduces a corre&ponding dis..
turbance into our sensations, and, should any of them
undergo a substantial change or be entirely annulled,
the sensitive functions of the part, to which they re-
fer, cease altogether. Thus injuries to the optic or
acoustic nerve will produce blindness or deafness
respectively, though the external mechanism of sight
or hearing remain entire; and, if the lingual nerve
be cut, the tongue continues to move, but has lost its
sensibility to savours. "These effects may be pro-
duced at pleasure upon animals, by tying or com-
pressing the nerves. When the ligature or pressure
is removed, the part then becomes sensible as be-
fore."
Magendie also states that, where there is faulty
• Milligan's Majendie.
MESMERIC SENSATION, 325
sensation, it generally originates in defects rather of
the nervous than of the organic structure. This de-
pendence of the external senses upon the nerves
should diminish our surprise at finding the former
occasionally retreat from offices which they only fulfil,
as it were, by delegation, while the true powers, as in
mesmerism, come forward to manifest their capaci-
ties, more palpably, indeed, but not more essentially,
than usual.
Secondly, The nerves, or portions of the brain
with which they are in immediate relation, are ca-
pable of gradations in their sensibility.
The proofs of this lie before us in every direc-
tion. Though the structure of the external organs
be alike in all (of course, we except cases of ac-
knowledged malformation), the capacities to which
they minister are, in different individuals, infinitely
varied. Thus, of two persons, whose auditory organs
are equally perfect, one shall have a far finer sense of
hearing than the other. The one, perhaps, may
mistake, as did a friend of mine, the tuning of instru-
ments before a concert for the overture; the other
shall detect the slightest false note which may occur
in an otherwise well-executed piece of music. While
some again possess by nature that sense of colour
which guided Rubens to all the harmonies of vision;
others, with no perceptible defect in the mechanism
of their eyes, cannot distinguish between the most
opposite colours. A man with this infirmity has been
known to order a pair of trousers of the most flagrant
red, supposing them all the time to be modest blue.
326 MESMERIC SENSATION,
Others are incapable of even hearing certain sounds,
for which
"Nature, though giving two, gave them no ear."
I was acquainted with a gentlemen, who was com-
pletely insensible to the chirp of the cricket. Walk-
ing with him and with a large party one summer
evening in his grounds, I observed to him that the
grasshoppers were more numerous and more noisy
just then than I had ever heard them. They literally
seemed to get the better of our voices. To my sur-
prise, my friend refused to believe that any grasshop-
pers were chirping, and was only at length convinced
of the fact by the united testimony of all the persons
present. In order to ascertain whether this peculi-
arity of sensation depended upon any general defect
in the organs of hearing, I held a watch at a consi-
derable distance from my friend•s ear, but he dis-
tinctly perceived it ticking. Again, I placed the watch
at an equal distance from him and from myself, at a
point where the grasshopper concert completely pre-
vented me from hearing it ; yet to him it was as audi-
ble as if perfect stillness had prevailed. He was also
c:ognisant of words spoken in the lowest whisper,
which no other person but himself could distinguish
amidst the din of the insects. What can be more
evident than that this inability to distinguish a par-
ticular sound arose from a defective sensibility in the
acoustic nerve, which had not the capacity of respond:-
MESMERIC SENSATION. 327
ing to aerial vibrations, rapid as those by which a
note so shrill as the cricket's cry is produced ?
Thus it appears that the nervous sensibility of one
man varies as much from that of another, as the mes-
meric from the normal.
This again should lessen our wonder when we be-
hold a state of nervous sensibility which surpasses our
conceptions even. That we cannot judge of it no
more proves its non-existence than the defective
hearing of some persons annihilates certain sounds.
When we, being in one state, pronounce a verdict
upon phenomena exhibited by those who are in an-
other, we act as does the blind man who dictatorially
gives his opinion respecting colours.
Thirdly, The nerves are subject to varieties of
condition, not only in different individuals, but in
the same.
That the nerves may vary in their functions of
transmission is not only possible, but inevitable, and
consequent upon the very constitution of man's na-
ture. Not only does every disease which affects the
nervous tissue affect the phenomena of sensation, but
the commonest occurrences of our ordinary existence
influence them likewise. Viewing the nerves as con-
ductors, along whose sentient line dart those electric
impulses which convey to us information of the ex-
ternal world, we may assert that they are seldom in
the same conducting condition. In re,·erie, how
deadened is their transmitting power ! how enlivened
under the excitement of hope, or fear, when we look
or listen for the arrival of a friend, or of some mes-
328 !WESMERIC SENSATION,
~enger of evil r How differently do they act under
the relaxation of fatigue or the tension of vigorous
energy ! Sleep alters their capacities of conduction
in a thousand varying degrees, e~hibiting phenomena
only less wonderful than those of mesmerism because
more frequently repeated.
In how extraordinary a manner trifling causes may
change the nature of sensation, one or two incidents
which have fallen under my own notice may demon-
strate. A friend of mine, when suffering from slight
derangement of stomach, is apt to see every object
double (smile not, reader, he is a water-drinker);
and I am, myself, occasionally subject to a singular
affection of the optic nerve. When fatigued by an
effort of continued attention, where the light is too
vivid (as in a theatre, for instance), I see every object
diminished and removed to a distance, as if I looked
on it through the reversed end of a telescope.•
At one period, for three months, during which my
digestion was slightly out of order, I was entirely
deprived both of taste and of smell. All that I ate
was as so much earth ; and I could not distinguish
between a cabbage and a cabbage-rose : again, a
gentleman of my acquaintance lost, and never after-
wards recovered, his smell, in consequence of a fall
from his horse, which had no other perceptible re-
sult.
• Here it is evident that the weaker impression, caused by the
exhausted and over-excited state of the nerve, produces the idea
of diminution arid distance, just as we judge that a feeble sound
proceeds from afar.
MESMERIC SENSATION, 329
Phenomena like these, not less than everyday
eTents, assure us that every separate state of man
is a separate and peculiar condition of nerves ;
and that every peculiar condition of nerves has its
peculiarity of sensation. When, then, we learn that
mesmerism induces alteration in our sensitive capa-
cities, why should we be as full of wonder as if
nothing else could work a change in them? Were
we wise, we should, from all we know of the nerves,
be prepared at least to anticipate new results from
new conditions of man ; and certainly to expect from
a state so singular as that of mesmeric sleepwaking
some singular variety of nervous action. That the
effects of the human influence on the nerves should
be new to our experience, so far from being extraor-
dinary, is but in the common routine of things; for
the state of mesmerism itself is new to our experience.
Did the nervous system present the same phenomena
under this peculiar phasis, as under other circum-
stances, then, indeed, would it violate the laws of
nature, and forego its own.
The nerves, then, are capable of changes in their
condition : but, change, it may be argued, is not im-
provement, and the instances adduced of nervous
alteration tend to show that their power may bt> les-
sened, rather than increased, - deranged, rather than
brilliantly exhibited. But mesmerism purports to be
an expansion and a gain in nervous energy. Let us
then inquire whether the same force, which is suscep-
tible of diminution or disturbance, possesses also in-
herent capacities of development. That nerves are
!ilESMERIC SENSATION.
sensible to stimuli we know. When their power
has been impaired,- nay, to all appearance per-
fectly lost, it may, by particular influences, be tran-
siently restored to all its pristine vigour. That the
blind occasionally regain, beneath the warmth of a
summer's noon, a power of vision which declines with
the sun and is again altogether lost at its setting, is
a fact which I need not insist upon to physiologists ;
and a friend of mine has assured me that he has fre-
quently known the opium-eaters of the East, after
they had become both blind and deaf from over-in-
dulgence in their favourite drug, regain both sight
and hearing while onder the accustomed excitement.
Stimulus, then, may appear to work nervous miracles,
and this plainly indicates a capacity in the nerves to
rise as well as sink- to gain force as well as to lose
it. But we may go farther still. The nervous
power, under certain circumstances, may not only be
exhibited as recovering the energy it had lost, but as
transcending itself, and displaying a capacity of
development, the limits of which have not been as-
certained. They who have had opportunities of
studying disease in all its forms will corroborate me
when I assert that, on a depression of the vital powers,
an increase of the sentient capacities is often conse-
quent; and that persons under certain derangements
of the system have manifested a nertous sensibility,
than which, mesmerism can display nothing more
astonishing. The Chevalier Filippi of Milan, doctor
of medicine, and a most determined opponent to
mesmet:lsm, has acknowledged to me that some of his
MESMERIC SENSATION. 331
patients, more particularly women after their confine-
ment, when suffering from nervous excitement, have
distinguished the smallest objects in darkness which
appeared to him complete. The same physician
related to me the following occurrence : - Visiting a
gentleman who had an abscess, he found that the pa-
tient had not manyhours to live; this, however, he did
not tell him, but answered his inquiries about himself
as encouragingly as he could. Taking his leave, he
shut the door of the sick chamber, and, passing
through two other rooms, the doors of which he also
carefully shut, entered an apartment where some
friends of the patient were assembled. To these he
said, speaking all the time in that low and cautious
tone which every one, fn a house where illness is, un-
consciously adopts,-" The Signor Valdrighi (that
was the name of the invalid) is much worse. He
cannot possibly survive till morning." Scarcely had
be uttered these words, when the patient's bell was
heard to ring violently, and, soon after, a servant
summoned the doctor back again into his presence.
" Why did you deceive me? " exclaimed the dying
man; "I heard every word you said just now in the
farther apartment." Of this extraordinary assertion
he immediately gave proof by repeating to the asto-
nished physician the exact expressions be had made
use of. Subsequently, upon Dr. Filippi testifying his
surprise at this occurrence to the servants of Signor
Valdrighi, they declared that their master's hearing
had become so acute since his illness, that he had
frequently told them all they had been talking of in
332 MESMERIC SENS.A.'l'ION.
the kitchen, which was even more remote from the
sick room than the apartment before alluded to.•
The gnat-strainers and camel-swallowers may be
content to accept this story, just because it only pro-
fesses to relate an instance of exaltation in the usual
senses; but what does this convenient phrase, "ex-
altation of the senses" mean ? Is it not "Words-
words - words; " one of those formulre which seem
to account for every thing, while, in fact, explaining
nothing? Considered as a not very precise statement,
it may pass; but when persons would palm it upon
us as a solution, I would ask them whether " exalt-
ation of the senses" (in the common acceptation of
the term) be possible? There may be development,
or, if you will, exaltation in our sensitive capacities-
but how, or where? If we desire to have clear
notions on this subject, we must perforce inquire
whether any increase of sentient power which may
fall under our observation be in the external organs,
or whether it be derived from the nerves which are
masked by those organs ?
In what manner we should resolve this problem
would not be doubtful, but for a certain confusion of
idea, which is extremely prevalent, respecting two
portions of our being, between whose functions and
qualities there can be no parallel. Led by custom,
and blinded by apparent simultaneity of action, we
associate the external apparatus, and the internal
sources of sensation in one common term, - the
• See Appendix.
MESMER.IC SENSATION~
senses, namely ; while, in fact, not only are they not
the same, but opposed to eacli other in every essential
particular.
While the action of the exterior organs is always
the same, under the same circumstances, that of the
nerves is ever-variable. The powers of the one are-
limited and known ; that of the other has not been
ascertained.
Is it not evident, then, that the mechanism of sens-
ation is swayed and regulated by something whieh is
not mechanical?
Is it not plain that the external senses are but the
letters and ciphers of the scale,- fixed marks, which,
by their unalterable character, point out how high
may rise, or how low may fall, the variable mercury
of our internal sensibility?
These truths, it is to be hoped, are known to phy-
siologists at least ; yet how many even of these speak
and argue as if they were entirely ignorant .of them.
When sensitive power is manifestly increased, where
then shall we look for an explanation : there, where
all is precise, limited, ascertained ; or there, where all
is free and boundless, where variety is infinite, and
capacity unknown ? Can we for a moment make it a
question as to where the true power lies ? Can we
for a moment ascribe it to the external organs, which,
far from being (:apable of development, seem rather
to be restrictions upon .internal sensibility by their
exact and circumscribed action ?
Now let us once more refer to the examples of de-
veloped sensibility which prefaced the above remarks.
MESMERIC SENSA.TIOI!t.
Certain invalids, it was affirmed, upon indubitable
testimony, had been known to distinguish the smallest
objects in a room, whence light, according to ordinary
viaion, seemed perfectly excluded, or had heard arti-
culate sounds athwart impediments, which, in ord~
nary cases, are sufficient to prevent all transmission
of acoustic impulses. The usual organs ofsense were
not in any way mechanically assisted during the ex-
hibition of the phenomena by external aids, sueh as
those of optical glasses, or acoustic tubes ; they were
depeadent solely on their own resources. Those re-
sources, as we have just observed, are very stri£dy
limited by mechanical and physical laws, w'bich are
incapable of change. In the case of the eye, where
there is light, there will be a picture formed upon the
retina with a clearness and vivacity proportioned to
the intensity of that light; or, supposing the pheno-
menon to regard the ear, wherever aerial vibrations
exist, they will strike the tympanum with a fot-ee that
corresponds with the violence and extent of the ori-
ginal impulse ; but, in the instances cited of sensitive
acuteness, the effect is inverse to the known cause.
The patient sees in a dark room where no picture
-can be supposed to be formed on the retina; or bean
in a situation where vibrations of the air, if even pro-
pagated so far, can with difficulty be conceived to
affect any membrane, however elastic. Under such
circumstances,everything is plainly &oaainst an increase
of sentient power : yet power is gained -how? or
whence ? Whatever may be thought of the credulity
of a mesmeriser, I have not faith enough to believe in
MESMERIC SENSATION.
modem miracles, when they are so interpreted as to
falsify mechanic laws. I will not, then, load the ex-
ternal organs with the onus of imposaible causation;
but that the nerves of sensation may, in particular
states, vibrate to fainter impulses, or even other
·media • than those which more grossly move the
mechanism of sense, I may admit to be a probable
explanation of events like the above: -at any rate.
one truth from the preceding observations is clear.
The extraordinary exaltation of the senses, whereof
we have been speaking, was not in the organs, (thct
ia barred by an ex absurdo) but in the nerves that
ministW to the organs.
Thus it appears that, in certain cases, the nerve.
may be exhibited in a state of development which
manifestly owes nothing to the mere organs of sense,
and which far oversteps the province of any one por-
tion of our external mechanism. When, then, mes-
merism palpably excludes the external organs from a
share in the sensitive developments which it elicits,
when it effectuates a revelation of sensibility springing
from an internal source, it may in this, as in many
other respects, be said to detect, rather than to Tio--
Jate, principles. It sweeps away imagined power,
which a multitude of circumstances had already shown
to be only apparent and superficial: it exhibits power
where power evidently exists, and might be expected
to be found.
But here, perhaps, I may be assailed with the oft-
• See the ena~~ remarks oa the media ofsenaation.
336 MESMERIC SENSATION".
repeated question (to which I have once before
alluded)," Granting all this to be true, of what use
are our external senses ? "
Coleridge, impressed with an idea of the lavish
wealth and boundless resources of Providence, when
asked of what use were the stars and planets if not
inhabited, replied, " I suppose to make dirt cheap."
In the same manner I might answer when persons
demand, " Of what use is the eye, if we can see
without it? ''- " To show us how to make a camera
obscura." In graver phrase, how much we learn
from the construction of this marvellous organ ; how
dependent on that construction are all the discoveries
which have been made respecting the physical pro-
pertit'S of the luminous medium ! It is a mechanism
exquisitely adapted to the mechanical arrangements
of the universe. And is its beauty nothing? its
power of speaking the soul ? And these advantages,
be it remembered, are contingent upon the office,
place, and station which the eye now holds in the
human economy. But while we adore the Creator's
wisdom and goodness in thus suiting our organs to
our condition, and to the agents with which they are
immediately in contact, let us remember that it is our
duty to explore, and to seek out the true grounds of
our adoration, and not to rest in a sort of stupid
amazement. They who so triumphantly take their
stand against mesmerism upon the all-importance of
the external organs of sense, would do well if they
would condescend to learn the real and most valuable
part which they play in our economy. While it is
MESMERIC SENSATION. 337
the office of the nerves to receive and to transmit e~­
ternal impulses with a degree of sensibiJity propor~­
tioned to their ever-varying condition, that of the
external organs. is to modify those impulses, with a
regularity as constant as Nature's own. They are the
weights and the llalance-wheel in our constitution.
Thus the eye is composed of parts that are refractive,
and of membranes that have each their use in altering
light, such as it acts externany, into light such as it is
perceived by us. The air, again, is modified in the
mysterious labyrinths of the ear; and these organs,
by their form, contribute to direct the impulse thus
modified to its proper recipient- the nerve. Hence
, it appears that the apparatuses of the senses are con-
trivances for blunting, not for heightening, the sensi-
bility. They are masks, and careful coverings to in-
struments of too exquisite delicacy to be bared and
exposed to the outer world. The cutis defends the
nerves from the agony of harsh impact upon their
tender surfaces ; the sieve-like mechanism of smell
disarms odour of its over-stimulus, ere we
"Die of a rose in aromatic pain."•
That degree of sensibility which is exhibited to us
in the mesmeric state, as if to give us a permitted
glimpse of the capacities of our being, would be
• The choroid, by its dark colouring, absorbs the light, and
mitigates it to the eye, as is proved by the distressing eff'ect
which daylight produces on those persons called Albinps, who
are deficient in the pigmentum nigrum. An ordinary degree of
light dazzles them into blindness, and they can only see in twi-
light.
Q
338 MESMERIC SENSATION.
wholly unsuited to the purposes ofevery-day existence;
and I cannot too often remind our opponents that
man was no more created to pas& his days in mesmeric
sleepwaking than in any other state of abstraction
from the affairs of this world. How terrible would
be the condition of a being laid bare and naked to
the irritating iniluences of all external things, may
be imagined from the sufferings of persons whose
nervous sensibility has become predominant over the
mechanic action of the senses. The Seherin von
Prevorst fell into horrible convulsions if iron were
within a certain distance of her, or if vinegar were
in any part of her room. Even patients in the ordi-
nary mesmeric state are sensible, as I have shown, to
emanations from precious stones, some of which affect
them with very disagreeable feelings. The valuable
experiments of Dr. Elliotson with minerals on mes-
meric individuals speak to the same effect. Let it
not, then, be thought that the mesmeriser underrates
the uses of the external senses. That they are as va-
luable for modifying as the nerves are for receiving
impulses he fully admits; he is only desirous of ex-
hibiting them in this their proper sphere, conceiving
that he thus renders them service ; for a faculty is
never seen to such advantage as when cleared from
the rubbish which ignorance has heaped around it•.
The aggrandisement which is based on error is but
for a time, and God is best honoured where his
work is best understood.
' Considerations favourable to mesmerism have now
been drawn-
MESMERIC SENSATION. 339
1st. From the predominance of the nerves over
the external organs of sense.
2dly. From their degrees and variations of sensi-
bility.
3dly. From their capacities of development.
And facts have been adduced which may prepare
us to resolve the apparent paradox of sensation ex-
isting apart from our usual senses.
But the agency of the nerves is capable of still
further elucidation which will throw yet more light
on the mysteries ofmesmeric sensibility. Iffrom the
varied modes of nervous action we proceed toits simple
principle, we shall find abundant reason to conclude
that mesmerism does never really infringe any esta-
blished and universal law.
As on the true nature of sensation I ground much
that is explanatory of my subject, I must be excused
if I endeavour to lead to the full comprehension of
my future observations on that head by some pre-
liminary remarks, which will not be deemed needless
by those who appreciate the difficulties that surround
this branch of our inquiry.
There are evidently but two ways of perceiving
objects ;- the one by being present to them in their
essential verity ; the other by communication with
them through the intervention of types or shadows.
The first mode of perception belongs to Godalone.
The second is imposed on man by the necessities
of his nature.
We cannot go to the object: the object must be
conveyed to us.
Q2
MESMERIC SENSATION.
We cannot penetrate its essence: we must descry
it as in a glass, darkly,- by reflection, -by an
image which is not itself.
For this reason, in some previous observations re-
lative to this same subject, I likened sensation to a
language established between man and his Creator.
I now proceed to point out in what that language
consists, and how truly it may be called a language,
since its symbols no more resemble the ideas they
excite, than do words the pictures they raise in the
mind, or the printed sentences of a book the.thoughts
and feelings which they occasion in those who read
them.
Limited, and closed in by walls of flesh, with
which; for a timt', we are almost identified, we can-
not but allow that through our body comes all that
knowledge, appertaining to external things, to which
we have given the name of sensation. This is indeed
the tenure on which we hold our individual exist-
ence; for all intelligence that is not limited is God,
and in the force of the restrictions which confine the
creature (paradoxical as it may sound) consists the
independence of its action, and the liberty of its
will. The universal ideas, which originate with God,
must, in order that tht'y may become proper to our-
St'lves, be transmitted to us through personal expe-
rience, and be coloured by the tinge of our own
nature. Deceived, indeed, when we think not d~ply,
by the apparent extremity of effects which we only
experience in our own persons, we refer our feelings
to the object tl1at occasions them, and speak of s.ound
MESMERIC SENSATION. 341
or of colour, as if it existed as a thing apart, forget-·
ing that aerial vibrations are only sound where there
is an ear to receive them, and that light is only
colour when it is reflected from surfaces to an eye
that vibrates in unison with its rapid scintillations.
Our free communication with external objects is
another source of error to our minds. Borne on the
wings of thought, we seem, as it were, to go out of
ourselves- to annihilate distance- mock at separa-
tion, and pervade the universe ; but maturer reflec-
tion assures us that sensation does, in fact, never stir
one inch beyond the corporeal boundaries which
have been assigned to it. Close the ear, and silence
is around us, though to others the brook is murmur-
ing, or the trees are rustling as before : -shut the
eye, and the slight veil of a tender membrane has
blotted out all that glorious creation with which we
so freely conversed, - has for us expunged the beau-
ties of earth, the magnificence of ocean, and made
a blank of the boundless heavens. Were we essen-
tially cognisant of these objects, we could not be
parted from them thus; but it is evident that all our
sentient mechanism (as Newton intimates) is truly
constituted for the purpose of conveying the species of
things to our sensorium, and that all that vast ex-
pansion to which we seem present is, in reality, pre-
sent to us within the narrow compass of our brain.
Sensation, then, is personal to ourselves, and man
is strictly confined to his individual sphere; yet, at
the same time, our consciousness assures us that we
are in sensible communication with objects which
Q 3
342 MESMERIC SENSATION.
are not ounelves, and which are more or less remote
from us. Consequently, between us and them there
must be media ; and thus, in considering sensation,.
we have three things to take into the account;
namely, the external object, or the exciting cause;
the medium whereby we are, as it were, linked to
that object; and the change in our own corporeal
frame, which stands as the representative of the
object.
Hereafter I shall have occasion to speak ·of the
media whereby we are brought into communication
witl1 the visible universe. At present I restrict
myself to considering the signs of things, of which our
own persons are, as it were, the living alphabet and
recording volume.•
First, that we really do draw our sensations from
the signs of things, and not from things tllemselves,
a very simple and well-known experiment may con-
vince us.
Crossing the middle over tile fore-finger, let any
one rub between their extremities a little ball, and he
will have exactly the same sensation as if there were
two balls instead of one.t
• Locke mentions " the perception of the signification of
signs " as a chief act of the understanding. See his chapter on
"Power."
t The reader is begged to remember that experiments like
these are not presented as new (as indeed. being appeals to ex-
perience. how can they be ? ) but as known proofs of known
propositions. equally necessary to be repeated in a certain train
of argument as the problems of Euclid in a course of mathe-
matics.
MESMERIC SENSATION. 343
This phenomenon is capable of but one explanation.
Those parts of the fingers which, in the experiment,
are brought into contiguity, are ordinarily prevented
by their position from touching one object at the
same moment. Simulta~eous impact on them has
therefore become associated by habit with an idea of
a duplicate impression. The mind has learnt its
lesson, which it cannot forget -its language, which
it can only interpret in its own established manner.
We touch a single superficies with nervous surfaces
which are used to come in contact with two; there-
fore we think that we touch two objects. The con-
ventional signs are present, and we deem that the
accustomed realities are also acting.
An interesting fact, recently observed at Paris,
may be adduced in confirmation of the above views.
A celebrated surgeon, M. Blandin, succeeded in
making a new nose for a soldier named Eustache
Gressan, who had lost that member from a sabre cut
at Waterloo, by means of skin cut away from the
forehead of the patient. When Gressan has his eyes
shut, if any one pricks with a pin the end of his new
nose, asking him at the same time where he has been
touched, he immediately lifts his hand to his fore-
head, evidently referring the feeling to its old place
from association. This anecdote, which is taken
from a thesis sustained before the faculty of medicine
at Paris by M. Chomette of Bordeaux, is extremely
valuable, as showing decisively that sensation depends
on the nerves and their associated actions, not on
their particular localities.
Q4
344 MESMERIC SENSATION.
. Certain signs, then, are really representatives to us
of certain objects ; and of the nature of those signs
we, from the above considerations, may partly judge.
It is necessary, however, that on this subject our
ideas should be perfectly clear and precise.
Let us, therefore, inquire wherein, individually
and generally, consists the language of sensation?
· Not in that which is commonly and vaguely called
the action of the senses, but in motions of those
nerves which are the life and efficacy of the senses.
For, let us consider, with Locke;that "all the actions
that we have any notion of, reduce themselves .to
these two, thinking and motion," (thinking be.ing
the action of mi~d, as motion is of matter). Now
that the nerves act in sensation no one will attempt
to deny ; and how they can act, being material sub-
stances, except by a change in the position of their
relative parts ; in other words, by motion, it is
utterly impossible to conceive.
That sensations are the results of changes or m~
tions in some portion of our nervous system does not,
however, rest upon abstract reasoning alone. The
proposition may be proved, by fact, in a twofold
manner.
First, we may, by giving motion to a nerve of
sense, convince ourselves that a sensation is the
result.
Secondly, knowing that, when bodies are jarred 01;
stirred, their particles continue for some little time
in motion, after the impulse which set them vibrating
is at rest; we may, by observing that a sensation
MESMERIC SENSATION. 345
continues for a few moments after its cause has ceased
to act, conclude that the nerve, on which sensation
depends, produces its effect by motion.
Each of the senses is susceptible of affording either
species of demonstration.
First. I. A blow on the ears will make them what
is vulgarly called ring, independently of the sound of
the percussion.
2. When a sound has been of long duration, we
still conceive that we hear it, though it may have
been for some time discontinued.
Secondl!l. I. An electric shock gives such sensation
to the nerves of touch as a violent blow usually
excites in them.
2. Should a fly have settled on the face, we often
raise our hands to brush it off, after it is really gone,
being deceived by a continuation of the same feeling
which it gave us when actually in contact with the
skiri. The tickling of a feather produces a similar
effect.
Thirdly. 1. Let any one place a piece of zinc under
his tongue, and a piece of silver upon the upper part
of the same organ. At the moment when the two
metals are brought into contact, a strong taste will
be perceived in the mouth, resulting from the gal-
vanic concussion, and not from any actual flavour.
2. The sensation endures for a short time after the
experiment has been tried.
Fourthly. 1. A spark, drawn, by means of pointed
metal, from the nose of a person who is charged with
Q5
346 MESMERIC SENSATION.
electricity, will give him the sensation of smelling a
phosphoric odour.
2. Musk, however carefully inhaled, so as to pre--
~ent any actual particles of the substance from being
stopped upon the pituitary membrane, will produce in
us sensations of odour for some time after we have
ceased to smell to it.
Fifthly. To perceive the connection between motion
and sensation, with respect to such of our senses as I
have already mentioned, is not difficult. But, when
we come to consider the eye, it is hard to apprehend
that all its beautiful representations of that external
world with which it holds such distant communion
are but signs and characters, consisting in nervous
motions, which the soul, by an intellectual operation,
translates into its own glorious and native language.
For this reason, I have reserved the consideration of
vision to the last, in order to bestow on it more at·
tention. Mesmeric vision also being that part of
mesmeric sleepwaking which most alarms the pre--
judices of mankind, I am most anxious to reduce it
to analogy with nature.
If it can be shown that vision does really consist,
like all our other sensations, in motion communicated
to a certain nerve, I conceive that my task is partly
executed, since it is plain that, though other condi·
tions which we deem essential to vision may be want·
ing to the mesmeric state, the great, the primary
requisite may yet be present. There may still be
motion.
But let us proceed to proofs.
MESMERIC SENSATION. 347
Sir Isaac Newton asks (Query 12th),
" Do not the rays of light in falling upon the bot-
tom of the eye excite vibrations in the tunica retina,
-which vibrations being propagated along the solid
fibres of the optic nerves into the brain, cause the
sense of seeing ?"
And again '(Query 16th),
" When a man in the dark presses either corner of
his eye with his finger, and turns his eye away from
his finger, he will see a circle of colours, like those in
the feather of a peacock•s tail. If the eye and the
finger remain quiet, these colours vanish in a second
minute of time ; but if the finger be moved with a
quavering motion they appear again. Do not these
colours arise from such motions excited in the bottom
of the eye by the pressure and motion of the finger,
as, at other times, are excited there by light, for caus-
ing vision ? and do not the motions, once excited,
continue about a second of time before they cease ?
And when a man, by a stroke upon his eye, sees a
flash of light, are not the like motions excited in the
retina by the stroke ? And, when a coal of fire,
moved nimbly in the circumference of a circle, makes
the whole circumference appear like a circle of fire,
is it not because the motions excited in the bottom of
the eye by the rays of light are of a lasting nature,
and continue till the coal of fire, in going round, re-
turns to its former place? And, considering the
lastingness of the motions excited in the bottom of
the eye by light, are they not of a vibratory nature?"
These observations, which the great philosopher has
Q6
348 MESMERIC SENSATION.
so modesdy thrown into the interrogative form, mo-
dem science has done litde else than repeat affirm-
atively.
It is true, we no longer talk of rays of light as the
causes of our visual sensations ; we have substituted
for these (and, as I believe, with truth,) the undu-
lations of an elastic ether. Still the theory of sens-
ation remains the same ; and motions of the nerv~,
.wh~ch minister to the eye, are accepted as productive
of our ideas of light. The fibres of the retin8, ac-
cording to M. d'Arcet, continue to vibrate for abou~
.the eighth part of a second after the exciting cause
has ceased; and therefore it is that, if we look at the
sun and then turn our eyes from it, or even shut
them, we still perceive a bright image .before us•
.The phenomenon is explicable on no other hypo-
thesis.
I might, perhaps, allow the .subject to rest here,
but it is too important to be abandoned before our
misapprehensions concerning it are perfectly cleared
up. The great source of error respecting vision has
been, and is, the miniature representation of objects
on the retina, which was once undoubtingly accepted
as the canse of vision- a venerable delusion, with
which it is almost a pity to part; for the endeavour
to explain how an inverted image (as that on the
retina is,) could make men see right end upwards,
.has given rise to an infinite display of learned inge-
nuity.
Then, also, the notion of the soul giving a peep
into the show-box of the eye is sufficiently ludicrous
MESMERIC SENSATION. 349
to be amusing. StiU, before we can have just ideas
concerning vision, those that anciently found place
with us, however captivating, must be altogether
swept away. The undulatory theory of light h~
it is true, at the present time, already ~effected this
in part : still, nothing is more difficult than to get well
rid of old errors, especially when these are based on a
plausible association of ideas. We behold external ob-
'jects- the same objects are known to be represented
on .the retina.- and we jump at once to the conclu-
sion thkt here is cause and there effect. Unfortu-
nately, never were two things, apparently connected~
so wide asunder. Did not whatever is too near our-
selves .in general delude us greatly, surely we should
not accept the image on the retina as explanatory of
vision, only because that image is in the eye, and be-
cause we know that, in some.way or other, our eyes
serve us to see with. For let us ~emember that the
connection between seeing and the picture on the
retina has never been proved. The theory that links
them together is perfectly gratuitous. On the other
hand, .the connection between seeing and motion of
the optic nerve has been proved. We cannot indeed
see without a retina ; - but why? . Because the
retina is so constituted as to be set in motion by the
impact of light, and to communicate.motion to the
optic nerve. Error continues to be propagated by
the loose phraseology employed upon this subject.
What is the meaning of the word impress.ion, when
applied to visual action ? An impression gives the
idea of something stamped and durable ; but the
350 HESHERIC SENSATION.
image on the retina endures no longer than while the
external object is before it. This is totally at vari-
ance with the lasting nature of luminous impulsions
on the eye, which consideration, it might be sup-
posed, would alone be sufficient at once to refer vision
to a motive cause. Above all, how can the optic
nerve convey impreuions ?-a mode of speech, how-
ever, which is but too common. What is really
conveyed, or communicated to the brain ?-a stamped
figure, like the impression of a seal on wax- or a
picture?- No ! a motion, and nothing but a motion.
Notwithstanding that this is palpable to reason, and
doubtless well known to the physiologist, still it is to
be suspected that the multitude are, E"ven yet, misled
by a fancied analogy between the act of seeing and
taking off the impressions of objects, just as ladies, by
an ingenious and almost instantaneous process, trans-
fer engravings to the tops of their work boxes.
This must be reformed altogether.
Taking the question on its widest grounds, let us
inquire, Does the image on the retina enable us to
see? To see is not merely to have ideas of colour,
but to appreciate the relative size and distance of
bodies. Now, in spite of the beautiful perfection of
the forms represented upon the retina, and the pro-
portion of their distances; many facts contribute to
assure us that we gain no perception of form or dis-
tance by the eye. We learn from it absolutely no
more than relates to light and colour. Thus, though
images are formed upon the retina of the new-born
M£SME1UC SENSATION. 351
infant as perfectly as upon that of the adult, yet,
during the first month of its existence, it cannot be
said properly to see. It only betokens a certain sen-
sibility to light by shutting its eyes when exposed to
a strong glare. That it has actually no idea of the
size or distance of objects, even long after it appears
pleased with bright and lively colours, is evident from
its stretching out its hand to seize objects, however
distant, or of whatever dimensions.
Even persons, who, being born blind, attain to
sight at an advanced period of life, arrive but slowly
at a correct appreciation of external objects. No
where is the parallel between language of the pre-
cedents of sensation more remarkable than here.
Learning to see is precisely analogous to learning a
new tongue. It is said of a blind youth, spoken of
by Cheselden, "When he saw the light for the first
time, he knew so little how to judge of distances
that he believed the objects which he saw ' touched
his eyes,' (this was his expression) as the things which
he felt touched his skin." • It is related also'" of
Kaspar Hauser, who was in the condition of a blind
person from long captivity in a dark dungeon, that,
when led up to a window, for the first time, whence
there was an extensive view, he uttered a cry of pain
and hid his eyes with his hands; when able subse-
quently to describe his sensations, he declared that
the landscape had appeared to him as an upright
• Milligan's Magendie,
352 MESMERIC SENSATION,
plane, daubed all over with dazzling and discordant
colours.•
Were vision mechanically resultant from a pictured
representation, it is evident that effects like these
could not ensue.
But, finally, how are we made aware that there is
a picture at all on the retina? By its being shown
to us in the eye of a dead animal. So that we look
upon it externally as we would on any other object. It
is we ourselves who create the picture by our previous
conceptions of form and distance, which have been
drawn, as the metaphysician knows, from the sense
of touch or rather muscular action. Thus, we only
know that there is a picture on the retina, because we
are able to see. Can that, then, be itself the cause
of our seeing? The absua·dity is manifest. It is
clear, then, that when we call upon the image on the
retina to account for our visual perceptions, the effect
does in no way answer to the cause proposed. View
it as we will, it appears to be merely the collateral
result of certain mechanical dispositions, which in no
way regard it as an end. From what has been said~
it appears that, in considering the sense of vision, we
must absolutely look upon it as no more than the
medium ofour information respecting light and colour.
To light and colour, then, we have to confine our
attention and to limit our argument. But our per-
ceptions of light have been proved to be occasioned
• Kaspar Hauser has been accused of deception ; but surely
this trait of nature alone would auflice to prove the most essen-
tial fact in his story.
MESMERIC SENSATION, 353
by motions of the optic nerves, and colours consist so
certainly in vibrations, that the number of undulations
producing each tint of the solar spectrum has been
mathematically ascertained. "The determination of
these minute portions of time and space," observes
Mrs. Somerville, " both of which have a real exist-
ence, being the actual results of measurement, .do as
much honour to the genius of Newton as that of the
law of gravitation."
Thus it appears that the real office of the retina is
to vibrate in correspondence with the vibrations of
light; as they are modified by being turned, inter-
cepted, or broken by meeting with various objects. ;
Need we observe how much this diminishes the
wonder of mesmeric vision ? It has been shown that
the picture on the retina is not the cause of seeing.
In cases, therefore, where a picture on the retina is
rendered impossible (as when the eyes are closed in
mesmeric slumber) the true cause of vision is not, it
seems, on that account, put out of the way. There
still may be motion of the optic .nerve. If it be in~
quired, how produced, I must send on my reader to
the remarks which will shortly ensue on communicat-
ing media. This at least cannot be contested:~ the
faculty of vision has been proved to result from mo-
tion, and is therefore brought under the same law,
which, it has been shown, predominates over the
other senses. Hence it appears that few propositions,
not absolutely mathematical, are more certainly esta-
blished than this.
Motions of the nerves are representative to man of
354 MESMERIC SENSATION.
external objects. Nor is it less demonstrable that
those portions of the nervous system which are cen•
tral, or proximate to the brain, occasion in us, by
their motions, sensations, rather than those portions
of the nervous system which are superficial or most
remote from the brain. For, in many instances, it
may be shown that internal causes, wholly inde--
pendent of any thing external, produce sensations
exactly similar to those excited by external things;
their manner of reproduction plainly exhibiting
their original mode of production.
In fever there is a repetition of images before the
eye, which can only be accounted for by supposing a
repetition of the sensations which formerly suggested
them. But those sensations are themselves correla-
tive with certain changes or motions of the nervous
system. Their recurrence in a confused and incohe--
rent manner is confessedly the fruit of disorder. And
what is disorder? An agitation of the frame, occa-
sioned often, and always accompanied by, a deranged
action of the nerves. The soul is reading, as it were,
an incoherent treatise, of which the disjointed sen-
tences were once familiar to her in their proper
order.
Under the influence of strong emotion persons may
perceive, as with the actual organs of sense, objects
which have no existence but in themselves; nay, even
like Macbeth, when marshalled by the air-drawn
dagger, may stretch forth their hands to clutch
--"The false creation,
Proceeding from the heat-oppressed brain."
MESMERIC SENSATION. 855
There are also mysterious affections of the nervous
system, in which the patient, retaining all his reason,
seems palpably to behold various forms of men or
animals. Walter Scott, in his Demonology, gives a
detailed and interesting account of the case of a
lady who was thus spectre-haunted for months.
I was myself personally acquainted with a physi-
cian who told me that, one evE'ning wh;Je he was
writing, he chanced to raise his eyes and saw, as he
imagined, his housekeeper standing close to his desk,
with a candle in her hand. " You may go to bed,
Betty," he said, and went on writing. A few minutes
afterwards he again looked up : there was Betty still.
" Did you not hear me? " he repeated; " I want
nothing more. Go to bed." A third glance, how-
ever, showed him the seemingly obstinate Betty yet
nearer to his chair, when, raising his hand with a
gE'sture of impatience, he found that it passed through
the figure, which, however, retained all its apparent
corporeality. With much shrewdness and presence
of mind, the physician then felt his own pulse, which
indicated fever. He proceeded forthwith to bleed
himself, and, as he had anticipated, while the blood
flowed, the phantom gradually disappeared -a proof
the most convincing that it was the creation of his
own disordered state of body.
Nor are such illusions confined to the sense of
vision. A lady of my acquaintance, while in a weak
state of health, heard constantly a band of music
with as much distinctnE'ss as if an orchestra had
actually been present. As she recovered, the imaginary
356 MESMERIC SENSATION.
sounds diminished, till at length she heard no more
of the aerial performers. .
These facts, however, are not within the experience
of all persons. But a proof, as E'asy of access as it is
interesting, that internal motions of the nerves can
cause in us a perfect idea of something external to
oursE"lves, is afforded in the following experiment.
Let any one take a five shilling piece, and thrust it
far up between the inside of his upper lip and his
teeth ; then let him lay a piece of zinc on his tongue,
and suddenly bring together the edges of the two
metals. At the moment when contact takes place a
faint glimmering light will seem to pass off on either
side his head, which, as nobody else sees it, must be
an optical error, - the mere motion of a nerve,
caused by the galvanism elicited from the two
metals.
Finally, discoveries of recent date demonstrate that
the impulses of sense proceed to a point remote from
the organ in which they originate. It is found that
the optic, acoustic, and olfactory nerves, though re-
maining entire, may fail to transmit their accustomed
intelligence to the seat of perception, after the sever~
ing of the fifth pair. The following experiment gives
still more consequence to the internal action of our
sensitive system. " I destroyed in a dog," says Ma-
gendie, " the two olfactory nerves. I presented to
the animal strong odours. He perceived them per-
fectly, and conducted himself exactly as he would
have done had he been in his ordinary state. It may
M.ESl-IERIC SENSATION. 357
then be possible that the olfactory nerve is not the
nerve of smell." •
How much these facts throw light upon the in-
ternal sensibility displayed by sleepwakers I need
not remark. They tend to concentrate sensation, to
refer it to a common source. ThE'y actually display
our senses dependent for their action upon an internal
cause.
But, farther still, it may be shown that a quiescent
state of the external portions of the nerves is per:..
fectly consistent with an increased and independent
activity of their central system.
Nay, the repose of the outer is an absolute con-
dition for the revelation of the inner sensibility.
We all may feel that, in order to call up before our
mind's eye the face of a dear friend, or the beauties
of a familiar landscape, we must retreat from the
obtrusive impulses of the external world.
Would we rise to a yet higher discernment of re-
membered objects, we must yet more calmly check
the beating of our pulses, until we pass into that state
of mind so beautifully described by Wordsworth,-
- " That serene and blessed mood
In which the affections gently lead us on,
Until the breath of this corporeal frame,
And even the motion of our human blood
Almost suspended, we are laid asleep
In body, and become a living soul:
While, with an eye made quiet by the power
Of harmony, and the deep power ofjoy,
We see into the life of things."
• Milligan's Magendie.
358 MESMERIC SENSATION.
An instance of another kind of abstraction is to be
found in the visionary, who conceives that he pos-
sesses the power of really discerning absent objects,
or of anticipating such dramas of life as have not
yet been acted. These seers, or pretenders to the
second sight as it is called, are described as falling at
the time of their beholding a vision into a species of
trance. Their limbs become rigid, their eyes remain
fixed and are insensible to the light. While all within
them is in a kind ofanarchy, their exterior appearance
is that of the dead.
But we need not resort to an extreme case like
this, to demonstrate that our greatest enjoyment of
the inner mobility of sensation is to be found in the
moment when we are most externally tranquil.
Dreams, beyond all other phenomena of our nature,
prove a central activity of the nervous system.
When we have passed into their world of separate
existence, the outer organs of sense are closely shut,
yet we see, or hear •, or feel, or partake of imaginary
banquets. To say that the soul alone reproduces
these ideas, were to charge her with unworthy folly,
for what can be less exalted or less coherent than are
our sleeping visions generally ; yet, were the spirit
really free to act unencumbered, would not her oper-
ations be distinguished by superior majesty and con-
nection? Rather must we affirm with him, whoee
• Dr. Abercrombie doubts that a sense ofhearing is ever en-
joyed in slumber. It is, however, no uncommon occurrence
with me to dream that I hear music, either vocal or instru-
mental, as distinct as any that voice or orchestra can produce.
MESMERIC SENSATION. 359
every comment on our nature was poetically beautiful
and philosophically true, -
" Dreams are the children of an idle brain."
It is indeed evident that, in sleep, some cause (per-
haps the circulation of the blood through the brain)
agitates the nerves of sensation, and gives to our
ideas, by their associate motions, a particular impulse,
form, and feature. This view of the case is strength-
ened by the manifest influence which our state of
body exercises over our nocturnal visions, which are
calm or disturbed, agreeable or painful, accordingly
as our digestion, and consequent pulsation, is orderly
or irregular.
A surplus, then, of internal sensibility, co~xistent
with a deficiency in the external, is not exhibited in
the mesmeric state alone. If, indeed, mesmerism
could display an inner development of sensation,
without any sacrifice of the external capacities, we
might have reason to exclaim against its miraculous
deviation from nature's laws; but the increase of
internal power, which it reveals, in connection with
the abrogated activity of the surfaces of the nerves,
appears to be the illustration, and not the infringe-
ment of a principle.
Still are we more and more depriving the super-
ficial extremities of the nerves of potentiality in sens-
ation,- still are we giving more and more importance.
to their central motions. Proceeding in our exami-
nation of nervous action, we find proof not wanting,
that like impulses, at whatever part of the nerve they
360 MESMERIC SENSATION.
commence, terminate in like motions, and produce
like sensations.
" After the amputation of a foot, or a finger, it has
frequently happt>ned, that an injury being otfered to
the stump of the amputated limb, whether from cold
air, too great pressure, or other accidents, the patient
has complained of a sensation of pain in the foot or
finger that was cut off." •
From this fact we may infer, that nerves have the
same conducting capacity throughout their whole
length, and that the loss of their extremities or ulte-
rior expansions does not deprive them of their power
to convey impulsions.
The common property resident in any part of a
nerve, or series ofnerves, to excite similar sensations,
is also evinced by the difficulty we often experience
in l'eferring our pains to the real seat of the disorder
which occasions them. Thus it not unfrequently
happens, that a person has had a sound tooth ex-
tracted instead of a defective one which caused the
torment.
But all these phenomena of sensation are, as it
were, subservient to one great principle, which, if
laws be only the general expression of concurring
facts, is most truly Nature's law as regards sensation;
universal-immutable -admitting of no exception.
It is this: -similar ultimate motions of the nerves,.
however produced, excite similar sensations.
A' priori reasoning would alone suffice to convince
• Darwin's Zoonoruia, vol. i. p. 35.
MESMERIC SENSATION. 361
us of this; or rather it is self-evident, as an axiom,
that, where a sign is representative of an object, it
must be so universally and under all circumstances.
It would produce as much confusion did that par·
ticular sensation, which now invariably signifies to us
a tree, occasionally call up in us the idea of a man, as
interpreting vice to mean virtue, or meanness gene-
rosity, does actually bring about, in some instances,
in this our wicked world. God's works are charge-
able with no such imperfections. It is true that the
invariability of our sensations may occasionally lead
us into momentary error (we rashly concluding that,
where the accustomed sign is present, the pheno-
menon which usually causes it is also at hand); but
this is only the necessary accompaniment of a mighty
benefit. The advantages are great and regular;
the drawbacks from these advantages trifling and
exceptional. That like signs are productive of like
ideas, is a principle which is the groundwork of all
our knowledge. Is it ever violated in mesmeric sens-
ation? Not within my experience. An interesting
proof that Suggestion continues to be, under mes-
merism, the law of our thoughts may be found in
the fact, that sleepwakers, with closed eyes, when
asked how they appear to themselves in a mirror,
reply, "as if my eyes were open." Accustomed to
connect the two ideas, of sight and having the eyes
open, in one sequence, the first suggests the second
to their minds.
To prove by general experiment that ultimate
motions of the nerves, lwwetJer produced, are signs
R
MESIIEBIC SENSATION.
which the Mind interprets in one uniform mannet", •
but to repeat facts which have been already stated.
The ·truth of the proposition is involved in that of
preceding ones. For it has been shown that pressure,
or a blow on the eye, or galvanic concussion, pro-
duces, not less than the vibrations of the luminous
ether, a sensation of beholding light ; that 8IDell,
feeling, taste may be deceived into action by agents
which are not the proper objects of those senses, and
that hearing may result from any cause that seta
the tympanum in motion or agitates the acoustic
nerve.
And that all these impulsions tend inward, and
that the kut nervous change is the immediate pre-
cedent of senaation, has been made also evident.
Adopting Dr. Thomas Brown'a definition of power,
we may not inaptly call central action of the nerves
ihe power of sensation.
Wonderful and complex, then, as is the external
mechanism of the senses, their principle is one. In
vain will a thousand adverse arguments be based upon
the favourite theme of our opponents- namely, the
speciality of office with which each nerve in our
economy is invested; in van will it be contended
that one nerve is sensible to the touch of light alone
-that another converses solely with the world of
sound. But howev£>r varied their action may appear,
however diversified the ideas which they excite, how-
ever distinct and separate the different properties of
matter which they reveal- still, as many rays unite
in one centre, or, rather, as a thousand harmon~ea
MESMERIC SENSATION.
may be all evolved from one fundamental note, so do
their multiplied resources all coincide in a single sim·
plicity of plan and operation. Motion is their lan-
guage- motion is their mode of communicating
information to us from without.
This is sensation's one great law, to which all other
are minor and attribute ; and this, once established,
deprives all but the last preparative of sensation of
that constancy which is the attribute of power. All
other laws relating to our sensibility admit of ex-
ceptions, and are not therefore really laws. This
alone, throughout the whole history of man, we have
never found transgressed. And how beautiful, how
wonderful is the contrivance ! A few insignificant
signs, capable of infinite permutations, are repre-
sentative to us of the whole glorious universe ! The
finger of God is here.
Having explored the principle of sensation, we
find that the changes which mesmerism induces in
its superficial developments are comparatively un-
important. They in no way afFect the great internal
cause, or throw the mesmeric sensibility out of the
pale of nature. We have seen that similar motions
of the nerves may be produced in various ways, and
that a change in the pre-requisites of sensation can
never imply a change in sensation itself. Now, though
in the mesmeric state the nervous motions are appa-
rently not produced in the normal way, still that there
may be normal motions is evident. However altered
by mesmerism the mere externals of sensation may
appear, the internal efficient change in Jhe nervous
R2
864: MESMERIC SENSATION.
structure need not in any way falsify our habitual
mode of being. In exposing the secrets and apparent
mysteries of a new condition of man, we do but lay
bare the fountain of sensation, not change its nature.
We pierce beyond external developments only to
arrive at their origin and their base more surely
even than the anatomist with his scalpel.
Let me, however, hasten to anticipate an objection
which may be raised against the mode of argument
that I have recently been pursuing. The feelings
which I have adduced to prove that similar ultimate
motions of the nerves are interpreted always by the
mind in a similar manner, are, it may be urged,
mere delusions, in no way correspondent to the truth
of external things : whereas it has been set forth u
the glory of mesmerism, that all its revelations regard
realities ; - that, without eyes, it beholds actual ob-
jects of sight ; without ears, it appreciates aerial
vibrations which do essentially exist.
I answer, that my object was to show the uniform
manner in which the sentient nerves perform their
functions, and that, in order to judge of any func-
tions aright, we must study them in their deran~
ment. Even their errors point out the truth. Though
the mind may be mistaken in itsjudgment, the nerves
do not vary in their action ; and this was the great
point to establish. In every case, also, of delusive
sensation, let it be remembered there still is a distinct
perception of each sevt>ral quality of the external
world. Ideas of Hght, sound, odour, &c., have been
perfectly reproduced, and have thus plainly indicated
MESMERIC SENSATION. 365
the manner of their original production. It has fully
appeared that Nature's mode of conveying to us in-
formation is one, and with this one the mesmeric per-
ception need not be at variance.
But is there, it may still be asked, any one ac-
knowledged instance in nature, by which the possi-
bility of receiving correct information respecting
actual t>xistences, otherwise than by the usual inlets
of sense, can be demonstrated ? There is. It is well
known that sound may arrive in the tympanum by
another way than the external ear. Let any one stop
his ears with his hands as perfecdy as he can, and
hold his mouth open. Let a watch be introduced
between his teeth, but without touching them, by
another person. As long as there is no contact, he
will not perceive the slightest sound of a watch tick-
ing, but, the moment he closes his teeth upon the
watch, he will hear it distinctly, -a manift'St proof .
that the sound has reached him by the mouth, not by
the ear, in fine by another mode of conduction than
the ordinary.
This simple and common experiment is extremely
interesting and instructive, for it shows how impulses
may arrive at the accustomed seat of sensation by
novel ways; warning us how rashly we should judge
in deciding that, because the first preparatives ofsens-
ati~ are unusual, the last must be so likewise.
The~ who desire the most to cling to experience in
judging of mesmerism may by this consideration be
propitiated. It may also be conjectured that an optical
impulse may reach the retina by some new route, even
R3
866 MESJIERIC SENSATION.
as a certain sound was shown to have been transmitted
to the tympanum. Should we agree with Magendie,
as to the analogy between sight and hearing•, so far
as to say, that " sound is to the hearing what light is
to the sight," we shall be yet more disposed to admit
this.
It may, however, be asked, If in the state of
mesmeric sleepwaking all the extremities of the
nervous system be as dead, does not this form an
insurmountable barrier against the transmission .of
external impulses to the inner seat of sensibility?
By no means. In the first place, though the ex-
ternal sensibility ofsleepwakers is not manifested in
the accustomed localities it does not follow that it
exists not somewhere. The truth is, that it appears
tobe restricted and circumscribed only to be increased
m mtensity. All mesmeric sleepwakersseem to poe-
sess a concentrated sensibility in some one part of
their bodies, affording a free inlet for the conduction
• " Some experiments have lately taught me that the ear
presents physiological circumstances analogous to those of the
eye."
.Again : " In the same manner as in the apparatus ofviaiou,
there are 1in that of hearing a number oforgans, which appear
to concur in that function by their physical properties, and
behind them a nervefor thepurpose of receiring and transmitting
impressions."- Magendie'1 Phgriology. By Dr. E. Milligan.
Herschel, also, in his Treatise on Sound, says, speaking o£
those feeble sounds which catch ourattention at night : -" 'I'be
analogy between sound and light is perfect in this, as in so IDIIDJ
other respects, &c. The ear,. like the eye, requires long and
perfect repoae to attain ita utmost sensibility."
MESMERIC SENSATION. 867
of external impulses to the nerves; nay, if we will, to
the accustomed nerves ofsensation. ObjectS of sight
(it will be remembered) were transmitted to Made-
moiselle M- by the forehead. Sounds reached
her by the same path; for proof ofwhich I refer tO an
experiment precisely analogous to the just mentioned
one of bringing a watch into contact with the teeth.
To the slightest touch upon the forehead, even
while apparently dead to feeling elsewhere, she was
peculiarly sensible. Ammonia held to her nose had
no effect upon her, but, when brought before her
forehead, made her suddenly draw back with affected
respiration; and, moreover, exhibit action in the
muscles ofthe nose;-which last circumstanCe more
especially adds to the presumption that the external
impact, in all mesmeric cases, though beginning atan
unusual point, is finally transferred to the accustomed
nerves of sensation•
.Again, even supposing all upward conduction from
the extremities to the brain to be impossible in the
mesmeric state, it by no means follows that there will
be no sensation; for many facts concur to show that
the mind can act downward from the brain towards
the extremities, and so, as it were, create sensation
fOr itself.
The mere thought of something sour will set the
teeth on edge, or of a good dinner will excite action
in the salivary glands, while feelings of awe or fear
will affect the whole external surface of the body, so
as to produce a visible change in the papillre of the
skin. Mrs. Somerville has observed, in her Connexion
B4
368 MESMERIC SENSATION.
ofthe Physical Sciences, that "the imagination has a
powerful influence in our optical impressions, and baa
been known to revive the images of highly lumino~
objects, months, and even years afterwards."
Again, Sterne says, in his odd book, the Koran, -
" I am in possession of a faculty, at any time I please,
of communicating a sensible pleasure to myself, with-
out action, idea, or reflection, by simple ·volition
merely. The sensation is, in a degree, between feel-
ing and titillation, and resembles the thrilling which
permeates the joints of the body upon stretching and
yawning."
Even the motions of the iris of the eye; which
are strictly subject to nervous influence, and appa-
rently dependent upon the external impulsion of light,
have been proved by Magendie to be greatly under
the dominion of the will. He says-" I ascertained
this in the following manner :-I selected a person,
whose pupil was very moveable, for there exist great
differences in this respect. I placed one sheet of
paper in a fixed position with regard to the eye and
the light, and, ascertaining the state of the pupil, I
requested the person to endeavour without moving
his head or eyes, to read the small characters which
were traced upon the paper. Instantly I saw the
pupil contract, and its constriction continue during
the whole effort." •
Lastly, my own personal experience has convinced
me that the mind can act from within towards the
• Milligan's Magendie, p. 43.
MESMERIC SENSATION. 369
external organs of sense. Often I have gone to sleep
holding a book in my hand and continuing to hold it.
For a few seconds after awaking, I could distinctly
perceive that I was unaware of having any thing i~
my hand, and I have marked the restoration of feel-
"ing consequent upon the restoration ofperfect thought.
My mind has, as it were, proceeded again to the ex-
tremities, from which, during slumber, it had re-
treated.
By these phenomena we establish a truth whi~h
all analogy must have suggested to us. The senses
act on the mind. Granted; but action supposes re-
action. Reason and fact therefore both concur in
proving that the mind has a certain mastery over the
senses, even as it has over the limbs, though the ap-
parent passivity of the senses have so far deceived
many, even acute, physiologists, as to lead them to
assert, that, while the nervee of motion have a down-
ward action, proceeding from the brain, the nerves of
sensation, on the contrary, act invariably upwards, or
towards the brain. We have, however, seen that this
is a fallacy. It may, indeed, be made a question
whether the mind can ever be said to be purely pas-
sive in any true and philosophical sense. This at
least is clear- it can only know that it has been pas-
sive, by an act. Moreover, that only in as far as we
attend to nervous motions we become sensible of them
is a positive law of our being. Many an object sends
visual beams to the retina, which yet we cannot be
said properly to see-many an aerial vibration strikes
on the tympanum, which yet excites in us no idea of
R 5
870 JIESliEtJC SEYSA'I'IOlf.
soond. How oft.eo, for instance, a clock may strike
and we not bear it! The power that we paeau,
al8o, of selectiDg particular objects for oar notice,
and even of acluding othen from any share in oar
attf'Dtion, proves that the mind does really- in aome
cases at least- turn the senses to a highe-.r kiod of
service than a mere passivity implies. In looldug on
a landscape, when we are attentive to one pleuiug
portion of it, how all the rest of the view dies away,
as it were, &om the sight ! How easily from the
conversation ofa crowd of penons talking around 111
we can select that information which we most desire
to bear ! Again, the cnltivation of our senses ia
manifestly dependent on a power which is not their
own. Children, till they have learnt to uae their
eyes andean, give bot feeble tokens that they~
them; - a proof that the mind does not even attend
to signs, of which it comprehends not the significancy,
and that neither external impulses nor material
organs can produce sensation, without the active co-
operation of the intellect.
These remarks are of importance to mesmerism-
a state in which the mind displays more of its active
than its passive character,-casting aside, as it were,
the external organs of sense, in order to attend to its
own abstracted trains of thought.
Is nature violated or not by this development of
internal power?
We have followed sensation inward only to arriw·
at the mind itself, and to exhibit it as not the play-
tbinJ of the senses, but their lord and master.
MESMERIC SENSATION. 371
Is this a truth which is new to us ? If so, it is
well that we should learn it now. It is time that we
who talk of the march of intellect at the present day
should rise above the vulgar view of sensation, and,
as Coleridge phrases it, endeavour "to create the
senses out of the mind, and not the mind out of the
senses." Let us no more return to gone-by errors.
Anciently courage was seated in the heart, sorrow in
the spleen, love in the liver, &c.; yet this was not
worse than deeming sensation to be actually in the
organs of sense. We may as well say that modesty
is inherent in the cheeks, because they blush. Again,
when smell is lost through the absence of its external
organ - when hearing is impaired by a collapse of
the external ear- when a person is near-sighted
from convexity of the cornea, art can supply a false
nose whereby odorous impulses are again properly
gathered and perceived - can concentrate in an ear·
trumpet the vibrations of the air - can, by proper
glasses, restore the purblind to perfect vision. Are
we, on that account, to say that sensation is seated iit
our false nose, artificial ear, or spectacles? What
better reason have we to suppose that any external
apparatus of sense can actually create ideas in the
soul?
A higher philosophy must teach us that the senses
are but the instruments- the mind the power......;.of
knowledge. The development, indeed, of its' im·
mortal stores may depend upon some external touch,
which unlocks the treasures of the casket, and one by
one exposes them to the light; but, as a seed includes·
R6
372 MESMERIC SENSA.TIONo
potentially the future plant, leaf, blossom, and fruit,
so does the mind contain within itselfits own capacities
of expansion. Even granting that, till written upon
by the finger of the universe, it is a blank, and that
all the magnificent endowments which it displays are,
until called into action and educated by external ex•
istences, as though they were not, still, when once
vivified and instructed, it is able to act for itself, and
to use its material organs as instruments of its intel-
ligence and will. Till we recognise this truth in
perfect clearness, there will be confusion even in our
physiological researches. Before, also, we can study
sensation aright, we must learn to separate it logically
into its two great divisions of general and special-
the first relating to us when considered as sentient
beings only; the second relating to us, when con•
sidered as sentient beings fitted and adapted to a
peculiar state of existence and to the mechanical
arrangements of this our world. The first is funda-
mental, the second occasional; the first is a principle,
the second the modification of a principle. Our
present organisation has reference to our present
condition; but sensation is of no time-of no era: it
is as old as creation itself. Now mesmerism tenda
to expose to us the fundamental sensation apart from
the organic. Unless, then, we can approach it with
a due knowledge of this distinction, its revelations
will be spread before us in vain; they will darken
rather than illuminate our understandings. Till we
thus study mao and mesmerism (which is almost an•
other word for man) we shall remain far behind the
MESMERIC SENSATION. 373
German school, both of metaphysicians and of physi-
ologists. But unfortunately we incline to the phi-
losophy of a lighter nation, who have an~tomised the
body till they see nothing beyond the play and spring
of nerve and muscle. With their accuracy of mate-
rial examination I do not quarrel ; I will, if they
please, give up the term soul, wlJ.icb seems to offend
them so mightily ; but I will, even from themselves,
force the confession that man thinks; arid whoever
does not see clearly that thi'nAing bas no likeness or
relation whatever to any material operation is in no
condition to judge any subject, or to argue on any
point whatever. There is a radical defect and con-
fusion in his mind, or (if be prefer so to phrase it) in
his brain. These remarks are not uncalled for, be-
cause it is to be suspected that one of the sins, of
which mesmerism is guilty, is that of giving prepon-
derance to mind over matter, and of rescuing sens-
ation from its connection with certain organs with
which some persons would absolutely and inextricably
identify it. Can it be denied that too many phy-
siologists love to view man as only a result of various
organs? It has even been affirmed by those who
would make us wholly dependant on our material
organisation, that the loss of an external sense in-
volves the loss of ideas, which have been furnished by
that sense. Nothing can be more absurd or untrue.
I have questioned on this very point many individuals,
who had lost their.sight for years, and they have all
concurred in saying that in dreams they bad a lively
sense of vision.
.
.
3i4 MESMERIC SENSATION.
Milton's beautiful sonnet, beginning-
" Methought I saw my late-espoused saint,"
and ending-
" But oh ! u to embrace me she inclined,
I woke-she fted-and day brought back my night,"
is a written record that sensation survives the sense
to which it formerly was indebted. Beethoven, it is
well known, became perfectly deaf at the age of
twenty~ight, and thenceforth his whole world of
wondrous harmony was seated in his mind. A cele-
brated living artist is blind of one eye. According
to the theory of some persons he should be only half
an artist; but his works are remarkable for correct-
ness of design, and splendour of colouring. These
are facts which are in harmony with mesmerism. Let
not, then, the determined materialist quarrel with
this infant science, as if it alone proclaimed the supre-
macy of mind over matter. Even should it go to
prove that we can see without our eyes, there is no
such great cause for alarm. Metaphysicians have
told us again and again that we do not see with our
eyes, but with our understandings, - and the world
is not yet come to an end.
Let us now, by the aid of the principles we have
ascertained, combine into one view the peculiarities,
and the correspondences with nature, of the mesmeric
mode of sensation; pointing out where it agrees with
and where it differs from the proceeds of our expe-
rience•
MESMERIC SENSATION. 875
I have already likened the nerves to conductors :
the expression is perfectly correct. Setting wholly
aside any theory as to their being the vehieles of a
more efficient force, as the electric, (which; neverthe-
less, certain phenomena of muscular motion render
extremely probable), it is only a fact that they are
conductors of impulses from the external world to the
brain, and thence again to the mind; and also, as has
been proved, from the mind and brain reversely to
the surfaces of the body. Again, it is a fact that
their faculty of conduction varies in many ways,
without any discoverable change in their texture and
substance, or even in the external circumstances by
which they are surrounded, though, from analogy,.we
~nay infer that their alteration does really depend on
causes extraneous to themselves.
Viewing the nerves in a .mechanical light, we ac-
tually find that, like other substances, they have their
own class' of influences, which affect their transmissive
power. In some cruel experiments tried upon half-
dead animals, alcohol applied to the brain was found
to produce action in the nervous system after every
other stimulusfailedofthis effect; and salt placed upon
the limbs of frogs, long after they have been severed
from the body, will rouse them into life-like motion.
Even such mechanical prope~es asthese, inherent in
the nerves, prepare us to expect varied effects from
iubmitting them to various conditions. Here, how-
ever, our knowledge is so imperfect, that it is safer to
study nervous action as it is connected with our own
thoughts and feelings : the causes are, .indeed, less
376 MESMERIC SENSATION.
obvious, but the phenomena more familiar to our ex-
perience. We are not acquainted, and probably never
shall be, with the conditions by which nervous con•
duction is varied. That it does vary we, however,
certainly know.
In the normal state we have the extreme and cen-
tral parts of the nervous system both in full activity.
In sleep, the nervous capacities die off towards the
centre, and the extremities are in no condition to
transmit sensation.
In palsy, conduction from the centre to the extre-
mities is impeded, for the brain can no longer tra.na..
mit the impulses of the will to the limbs.
Nervous deafness, or blindness, afford instances of
non-conduction from the extremities to the centre,
occurring often without any apparent cause. I ha-re
a friend, who used frequently to be afflicted with a
complete though temporary blindness. At first, he
said, it was as if a black spot were before him, blot-
ting out external objects. This black spo.t increased
till it obscured every thing, and he was in perfect
darkness. I once was forced to lead him out of a
concert-room at Cambridge, while be bad an attack
of this kind.
In certain cases of catalepsy, the power of nervous
conduction seems to ~ limited to one particular spot
in the body. A lady, whose daughter was afflicted
with cataleptic fits, in which she would sometimes fall
down, at others be fixed rigidly in one attitude, told
me that the patient beard nothing that was said to
her in her attacks, unless the person speaking touched
MESMERIC SENSATIOlT. 377
the pit of her stomach, and addressed the sound
thither. On one occasion the child was seized with
catalepsy when standing in the middle of a large
public swimming bath, which, for her health's sake, she
was ordered to use. The mother, unable to reach her
child, was in great alarmlest she should fall,andc8lled
out, in hopes to wake her from the lethargy, in vain:
she gave no token of hearing. The thought then sud-
denly occurred to the mother to bold her mouth
close to the surface of the water, using it as a sort of
conductor to convey the sound to the patient. On
this being done, the little girl showed at once that
the voice bad reached her, and was roused from her
catalepsy, as she usually was on her attention being
strongly excited in attacks of that malady.
It being then ascertained that nerves vary in their
capacity of conduction, we have only to mention pre-
cisely what shade of their conducting power charac-
terises the mesmeric state, when it will be found, I
imagine, that we have not, in·considering this part of
man's constitution, to unlearn our previous know-
ledge, but merely to intensify known conditions, or to
combine them anew.
Firllt. Under mesmerism, the nerves generally have
ceased to conduct from the superficies to the centre;
-in other words, from the usual inlets of sensation
towards the brain ; but it also appears that con-
duction usually takes place from some one limited
portion of the nervous surfaces, whence it propa-
gates external impulsions, by unusual routes, to the
brain.
378 MESMERIC SENSATION.
The first branch of the phenomenon is partially
exhibited in cases of nervous deafness, or blindne-.
The second, namely, the- limite-d conduction of sen-
tient impulses, has sometimes been observed in cata-
lepsy. It has, however, been objected that, in C88eB
where the nervous sensibility has been reported to be
confined to the epigastrium or pit of the stomach, the
communication between this part and the brain has
not sufficiendy been accounted for, the system of the
ganglions, as some persons affirm, scarcely making a
part of the general nervous system. This is bot· a
feeble objection. Every part of the system of man
is evidently in reciprocal connection ; and if it be
asked how the great sympathetic communicates with
the nerve-s of sensation, we may answer this question
in resolving another. How does the arterial com-
municate with the venous system? By vessels so
fine as to have called their very existence into doubt,
and to have rendered the circulation of the blood a
great discovery. Our senses are not always so subtle
as to trace nature in all her links.
The second peculiarity of nervous conduction
which the mesmeric state presents, is as follows.
In using, for the purposes of sensation, that portion
of the nervous system to which conduction seems
confined, the sleepwaker demonstrates more of the
active than passive character of the mind. To speak
technically, there is more manifesdy conduction
from the brain outwards than from the superfi.cies
inwards. The common process of sensation seems
reversed ; for the nerve appears to conduct the sen·
.MESMERIC SENSATION. 879
tient power to the superficies, where it takes, as it
wert>, the information it seeks, instead of, as 1Isual,
conducting the impulsion to the brain, where the
sentient power may receive notice of what is pass-
ing ~in the exrernal world. More briefly, in the one
case the mind taAes, in the other it receives inform-
ation.
I ground my observation on certain facts, and on
this especially: -A mesmeric sleepwaker rarely ob-
serv(>S any external object of his own accord. His
state is one of concentration, abstraction, and internal
thought. If be be conversant with material objects,
it is in the mirror of his own mind. Only when the
mesmeriser stimulates his volition does be attend to
any external thing, and then it is by seeming to apply,
as it were, his new organ of perception to the object,
with something of visible effort. If I may be per-
mitted the illustration, I should say that be seems to
feel out the object, as an insect examines things by
putting forth its antennm and using them as instru-
ments of exploration.
This is more especially observable in the early
atages of the mesmeric state, beyond which some
persons never advance. There is also a difference
which results from native character, some manifest-
ing from the first, some acquiring by degrees, a
greater power of independent action than others, -a
power less evidently derived from the mesmeriser.
When this is the case, there is more attention mani-
fested towards external things, but always, I imagine,
in the manner that I have above indicated; namely,
lriBSHBBJC SENSATION,
by active exercise of the new organ of sense rather
than by passive reception of impulsions through it.
Some, who exhibit a very extended perception in
the mesmeric state, seem to possess, to a certain de-
gree, the faculty of shifting the external sensibility
of the nervous system, though it continues always
restricted, from one spot to another, changing, as it
were, the site of their single organ of sensation.
Thus E. A., who perceived things by the forehead,
would occasionally receive information relative to ex•
temal objects by the back of his bead, the side, or
the top; but he seldom did this spontaneously, and
would always say it was a great effort and did hiltl
harm. And, in effect, after having induced him to
make many such efforts, I always observed that he,
on awaking, manifested uneasiness and fatigue.
Other considerations support my view of the ~
The mesmeriser can, by stimulating the patient's
volition, restore the sense of feeling (hut, I believe,
that sense alone) momentarily to the extremities of
the nervous system. Thus, Anna M--, when
mesmerised, felt nothing if pinched in the hand by
an indifferent person ; but if I told her to attend
and try to feel, she could transiently perceive that
she was touched. This proves that the mind of ·the
patient can proceed from its inner abstraction for a
moment to the extremities of the nervous system,
and re-occupy its accustomed channels. Take this in
conjunction with other facts, which demonstrate that
conduction tOfDarth the brain is barred, and I think
our point is proved. E. A. being mesmerised (as will
MESMERIC SEN&ATION. 881
be remembered) at a time when he was suffering
from hunger, was no longer conscious of the sensa-
tion from the time of his entering the mesmeric state.
Again, Anna M-- sufFering, when awake, from a
gathering in her finger, had no longer a sense of
pain when in the mesmeric slumber. In these cases,
the nerves of feeling, whether internal or external,
did evidently no longer convey impulsions towards
the brain, but were as inefficient for that purpose as ·
if they had been tied or cut. The reader may also
consult, for further information on this subject, the
Monthly Chronicle for July, 1838, wherein a most
·interesting experiment on mesmeric insensibility is
detailed. By this it appears that a galvanic shock;
which produced a very severe effect on Sir William
Molesworth and other persons, had no visible in-
fluence on Elizabeth and Jane Okey, patients of Dr.
Elliotson. Yet were these girls able to attend to all
that was passing on every side of them; or, in other
words, to use their nervous system actively, while
incapable of being influenced by it passively. There
was no conduction towards the brain, but onlyfrom it.
Again, in the case of Mlle. Estelle L'H-, re-
lated by Dr. Despines of Aix, and once before referred
to, it is stated that when she was unable, from a spe-
cies of nervous paralysis, to stir a limb, she could, in
the mesmeric condition, into which she sometimes
spontaneously fell, actively use all her members as
when in perfect health. The transition from a state
of active exertion to one of passive helplessness was
very marked, and often very alarming ; since if her .
882 MESMERIC SENSATION.
natural mesmerism dissipated itself (as sometimd
would occur) when she was walking, or even riding,
she would fall suddenly, and, if not timely assisted,
come with force to the ground.
Some of these phenomena are by no means pecu-
liar to mesmerism. The partial restoration to feeling
effected through stimulation of the patient's will i•
paralleled by those cases in which nerves under the
influence of strong excitement have been suddenly
restored, after years of inaction, to a conducting
capacity. Paralytic patients, it is well known, have
recovered the use of their limbs for a short time,
when they were forced to save themselves from fire
or other threatened evils, but, the excitement with-
drawn, have fallen helpless to the earth : even those
who had been dumb for years have spoken under
circumstances where strongemotion burst their bonds
of speech. Nor are these the only cases to which
mesmeric sensation bears analogy.
The inversion of nervous action has been pointed
out by Darwin, and particularly described in his
chapter on Reverie in the Zoonomia. A young lady,
it is there related, suffering under this singular
malady, neither saw, heard, nor felt, during its at-
tacks, any of the surrounding objects; yet did she
manifest occasionally in her state of reverie a percep-
tion of external things (as when smelling a tuberose
and drinking a dish of tea), "but this was only when
she voluntarily seemed to attend to them."
Darwin, remarking on the case, observes : -
" In the present history the strongest stimuli were
MESMERIC SENSATION. 383
not perceived, except when the faculty of volitioQ
was exerted on the organ of sense; and then even
common stimuli were sometimes perceived : for her
mind was so strenuously employed in pursuing its
own trains of voluntary or sensitive ideas, that no
common stimuli could so far excite her attention as
to disunite them ; that is the quantity of volition, or
of senSation already existing was greater than any
which could be produced in consequence of common
degrees of stimulation.''
Darwin has well stated this ; and this appears to
I>e the history of the sensations in all cases of slee~
waking and states which are analogical to sleep-
waking. The mind is deeply occupied on its own
train of thought, so as to become inattentive to every
thing in which it does not sympathise, and with
which it does not co-operate. It is exhibited in the
position of origi'IUJJ:ing action ; and every action which
it does not itself originate is to it as a nullity; as,
for instance, the natural sleepwalker will be uncon-
scious of the presence of other persons, and will
suffer much from them without awakiftg ; yet will he
exert- yes, here it may be truly said exert- his
percipient power on such objects as he pleases; thus
manifestly exhibiting a freedom of choice and a ca-
pacity of selection which does not belong to man
generally. Thus, however paradoxical it may appear,
the state from which volition seems the most absent,
is really the fullest of free-will.
These things throw light on mesmerism, and ap-
proximate it to experience. They are known to be
MESMERIC SENSATION.
parts of the constitution of man; they are demon-
strated to resemble perfectly the state which we deem
so anomalous. How comes it that the likt-ness baa
not been recognised before, - that mesmerism, in
truth, so old, should seem so new- so near, should
seem so distant? The fault has been in this:-
viewing mesmerism as a strange thing, men have
sought strange solutions for it. Deserting iht- sure
path of common life, they have thought themselves
obliged by the dignity of their subject not to be too
explicit in their explanations, but to wrap the ap-
parent mystery in tenfold darkness. As Arago bas
well observed, in his life ofJames Watt, "Les forces
naturelles ou artificielles, avant de devenir vraiment
utiles aux hommes, ont presque toujours ete ex-
ploitees au profit de Ia superstition." So have we
been taught to view with superstitious fear the
home-born stranger of our own bosoms. Thus has
every effort to approximate it to man thrown it
farther off. Tht-y who chase it most will find it
least. To go far for it is like hunting for happi·
ness-
" Which still so near us, yet beyond us lies,
O'erlook'd, seen double, by the fool and wise."
·The very terms heretofore in use, in speaking of
mesmeric phenomena, have 00en strange and por-
tentous. This is an error. We have undoubtedly
starding things to relate ; let them not be related in
starding language ! Words have much power for
MESMERIC SENSATION. 385
good and for evil. . On this account I regret that the
term " transposition of the senses" should ever have
been applied to mesmeric perception ; for it is a
manifest inaccuracy. The senses, as I trust I have
demonstrated, are never by mesmerism transposed
or removed from their real seat. Still more unfor-
tunate is it that the early mesmerists should have
sinned against precision of language, so far as to talk
of their patients seeing with the epigastrium- the
fingers, &c. To those who might inadvertently re-
peat such an error, we might suggest that, when we
are made to hear the ticking of a watch by means of
its contact with the teeth, it would be a rash conclu-
sion that we hear with our teeth. Such expressions
as these remove mesmerism farther and farther from
the safe regions of experience. Our object should
be ever to show that it does not alter sensation, save
in certain comparatively unimportant particulars of
its mode of conduction. But such stumbling blocks
as these are fast being removed out of the way of
objectors, so as to leave them no excuse for hanging
doubts on words and arguments on verbal inaccu-
racies. Already the obnoxious· term magnetism has
given way to the unobjectionable name which is
well derived from the discoverer or reviver of the
agency in question. Once the whole learned world
fastened furiously on the word .fluid, unfortunately
applied to this agency. This can occur no more ;
for, through the excellent judgment of Dr. Elliotson,
mesmerisers themselves agree in exposing the ab-
s
886 MESMERIC SENSATION.
surdity of deciding positively on the nature of mes-
meric influence.
But there still remains a stronghold to those who
think that to attack a name is to quash a fact. "What!"
~xclaim some persons, " do you assert that any one
can see with the eyes shut?" By no means. We will
change the term. Why quarrel about a word ? We
will couch the fact of mesmeric perception in any
language that is most agreeable to the objector ; we
will allow that to have certain perceptions otherwise
than by the eye is not properly to see. Let us say,
then, that it is to perceive or know; for knowledge, at
any rate, is the end and object of all the senses.
Knowledge is a general expression of the nature of
man. But, be this as it may, the nomenclature of
mesmerism, however faulty, evidently makes no dif-
ference whatever in the facts. It is with these we
·have to deal, and- unless we actually desire to
quibble- it is these we must alone consider. But
the advocates of mesmerism are placed in a singular
dilemma. The world calls out for facts; and, when
we offer such as we alone have to offer, burls them
back in our teeth. The mesmeric vision, or clair-
voyance, especially has been gravely and grandly
pronounced to be "physically and physiologically
impossible." How can we reply to this ? Only, I
suppose, as Pascal did to some one who asserted that
it was impossible for God, being so great, to busy
himself about our little world,-" II faut etre bien
grand d'en juger."-" To decide such a question,
MESMERIC SENSATIO;N. 387
one must be great indeed f " Or again (for there is
no lack of answers), "Must every thing be impos-
sible, which our insufficience cannot account for?
Are there not innumerable mysteries in nature,
which accident reveals, or experimental philosophy
demonstrates to us every day? And shall we yet
presume to limit the powers of the great Author of
that yery nature ?"
But should we still be met with the same weari-
some assertion, so as to be provoked out of all phi-
losophical endurance, we may, perhaps, at last be
allowed to exclaim with Young -
" Impossible is nowhere to be found,
Except, perhaps, in the fool's calendar."
Did these positive persons know all the offices and
functions of the nerves, they might be thus dogmatic.
But the study of the nervous capacities is itself of
recent date, and the powers of nervous development
are unknown. That the nerves do not always act in
concert with the external organs- that they tran·
scend them- that they can occasionally altogether
dispense with their aid, has been proved. What if
it were reserved for mesmerism to show the nerves
not only acting alone, but acting in correspondence
with external things? Is this a reason for rejecting
an evidence precious in itself- the more precious
from its novelty and rarity ? A new science must be
based on new facts. Were .all phenomena alike in
8 2
388 MESMERIC SENSATION.
the world, knowledge must come to an end, and in-
vestigation be .circumscribed· indeed. Surely, all
that is required to render any class of facts interesting
is, that they should be new, yet not out of analogy
with nature ; and those we have been considering
come under both these conditions. Even though
they should stand alone as a class, yet, having been
shown to be uncontradicted by nature's general tend-
encies, they should be admitted to examination. Yet
here again, though demanding but justice, we are
baulked. We entreat the adversaries of mesmerism to
come and witness our facts. They come not; or, if
hey come, scarcely deign to look at the most im-
portant and interesting phenomena; or again try
experiments, not with a rigour, but with an unfair-
ness unknown in other inquiries, expecting the sen-
sitive being we exhibit to them to act as so !DUCh
brute matter, and to be in the right when their
sensibility is exhausted.
" But," piteously exclaim the systematic men, " if
mesmerism be true, then all we have hitherto learned is
false.'' By no means. But even were this s~, surely
it is better to get into the right path late than never.
It is better also gracefully to yield than to be held up
as a spectacle of vanquished yet impertinent obsti-
nacy. And light- resistless light is pouring in on
every side to illustrate nature, and to display m~
merism in the first rank of acknowledged truths.
It requires but little sagacity to perceive that they
who now place mesmerism in the category of impossi-
•
MESMERIC SENSATION. 389
bilities will shortly be in the situation so well de·
scribed in tbe following lines :-
" So fares the system-building sage,
'Who, plodding on from youth to age,
Has proved all other reasoners fools,
And bound all nature by his rules ;
So fares he in that dreadful hour,
When injured Truth exerts her power
Some new phenomenon to raise,
Which, bursting on his frighted gaze,
From its proud summit to the ground,
Proves the whole edifice unsound." •
• Beattie•
s 3
890 THE MEDIUM OF
SECT. IV.
ON THE MEDIUM OF MESMERIC SENSATION.
HAVING shown, from the real nature of the changes in
man's personal frame which precede sensation, that
an inner sensibility, coincident with an inaction in
external organs of sense, is but accordant with the
principles of true physiology, I now purpose briefly
to consider the pre-requisites of sensation, which are
external to ourselves; the media namely, which place
us in communication with foreign and distant objects ;
and I trust here also to demonstrate that mesmerism,
instead of violating laws, does in fact bring us to
grounds and principles.
Should the problem be given us to solve of con-
veying to a being, limited in perception and place,
knowledge from a distance -how should we accom-
plish the desired end?
By contact, certainly, and motion.
We will imagine a person, deaf and dumb, placed
at a distance from us, with his back towards us. He
has been taught to distinguish, like the pupils in the
Abbe Picard's institution at Paris, words written on
the back. We are too far off to write these with the
finger- we take a stick and write; and the person,
MESMERIC SENSATION. 391
though distant from us, understands what we mean
as well as if our thoughts were actually present to
himsel£ Here a certain motion and configuration
convey from our own mind intelligence of what is
there existing to the mind of another, through the
intervention of a moving medium.
So God's intention is manifestly to convey to us
certain ideas from his own mind, through inter-
mediary types or shadows; and all knowledge is
God's writing on the soul by means of certain
touches from afar, prolonged even unto us by com-
municating media. Should this view of the subject
be refused, and should we be required, with cold
philosophy, to limit ourselves to material objects, and
to their effects upon our physical framt', it will still
be perfectly evident, that particles of matter cannot
act upon other particles without some means of com-
munication.
When then we are made aware of the existence of
distant bodies, it is plain that these are brought into
contact with our nervous system, either by a pro-
longation and extension of the atoms which compose
them, or by an impulse continuously carried on from
themselves to us by the successive agitation of the
particles of some intervening substance. The latter,
in cases where the object with which we communi-
cate is extremely remote, appears to be the most
rational supposition, and with this modern science is
perfectly in accord, no longer considering even light
itselfas a corporeal emanation from the sun, but as a
s 4
392 THE MEDIUM OF
vibratory impulse communicated from the selflumi-
nous solar body to an ethereal medium, and thence
again to our optic nerves.
By analogical appearances and reasoning, it seems
also to be decided, that "heat, like light and sound,
consists in the undulations of an elastic medium ; "
and it may perhaps, in process of time, still further
be proved that odour is not a material emanation,
but a mere action of matter communicated to our
percepti~n by the nerves. This at least would
account for the now incomprehensible fact, that a
grain of musk will diffuse its odour for years without
any perceptible diminution of its weight.
In the admirable language of Mrs. Somerville,
" Th~ human frame may therefore be regarded as
an elastic system, the different parts of which are
capable of receiving the tremors ofelastic media, and
of vibrating in unison with any number ofsuperposed
"Undulations, all of which have their perfect and inde-
pendent effect."
This view of the nature of our sensations cannot
but greatly simplify our notions concerning them,
and it is astonishing how much is effected towards
the comprehension of a subject, when we put out of
the way all its less important elements. The astro-
nomer, finding it impossible to determine the motion
of each heavenly body when disturbed by all the
rest, takes a simpler problem, and calculates the
mutual relations of three bodies only ; yet thence
he learns to judge of the whole celestial system. In
I
\
MESMERIC SENSATION. 393
the same manner, the problern of the action of
matter upon mind should be rendered as little com-
plicate as possible; and thus, in consideringsensation,
it is desirable to bring into one comprehensive view
its chief conditions, to the exclusio~ of such con-
tingencies as merely arise from the modifying in-.
fluence of particular circumstances. Now we have
seen that the external and mechanical portions of
our senses are not indispensably and fundamentally
connected with sensation, but rather are adaptations
to the exigencies of this our temporary existence.
The two absolute essentials of sensation, without
which it could not take place under any circum-
stances, in which it bears coincident relaqon to real
external objects, are -a medium and a system ca-
pable of responding to that medium. Now .the
question is, whether there be any fact which renders
impossible, during the mesmeric sleep, the co-exist-
ence of the two essential conditions of sensation.
One of them - that is, motion of the nervous sys-
tem - has been shown to be by no means ofnecessity
abrogated during mesmeric sleepwaking; but the
other, that is the correlative motion of a medium,
does, on a cursory view, seem forbidden in cases
where the patient sees through obstacles which inter-
cept the light, and, to our common apprehensions,
break up the continuity of visual impulsions. On
maturer consideration, however, we must own that
the great principle of sensation- namely, motion
communicated by media- may not only subsist in its
s 5
•
:l94 TH£ M'J:DlUM OJ'
integrity during the tnesmerie vision, but subsist alsa
analogically to all we know or can discover of nature's
constitution.
It is true that, in the endeavour to reconcile mes-
meric sensation with established laws, we are in a
manner forced into hypothesis. But is this a fault.?
A great metaphysician has pronounced that " an
hypothesis, in the first stage of inquiry, far from
being inconsistent with sound philosophy, may be said
to be essential to it." Now the case of mesmerism
is one in which we are absolutely obliged from given
data to draw deductions, and to reconcile two facts
by the interposition of a third. With regard to
mesmeric vision, for instance, we have a phenome-
non, accurately determined by rigorous experiment,
which involves two things,- a perceiving mind, and
an obj~ct perceived ; and these we are forced,
through reason, to connect by a third, namely, a
medium, for we never knew mind to perceive but
through an intermediary, and we have reason to
think that none but the Almighty mind can imme-
diately perceive objects. Yet more,-the sleepwaker
has a nervous system, which, though externally inert,
is manifestly in internal acth·ity; and there is no
ground whatever to suppose that the established
language of sensation, namely, motion of a nerve,
is, in mesmerism, abolished, though it be produced
in an unusual way. If then there be motion of a
nerve correlative with an external object, it is plain
that this motion must be brought about by means,
and by material means. What these means are we
MESMERIC SENSATION. 895
do not indeed exactly know, and we are therefore
compelled, in a degree, to form conjectures about
them. Certainly the less of this the better, but at
any rate we cannot but imagine such a medium
as shall meet the necessities of the case ; herein, at
least, we have a sure guide. If, taking the facts, we
proceed, step by step, to deduce from them the cha-
racteristics of our medium, fitting always the sup-
position to the reality, and not the reality to the
supposition, it seems as if we could not greatly err.
The first thing of which we may be sure is, that
the medium which connects mesmeric persons with
external objects is not any of those which we believe
to be efficient in ordinary sensation. The mechanism
of the senses being null, the media especially adapted
to that mechanism must also be useless in conveying
information. The ear was made for air, and the eye
for light; but, in this case, the ear is closed, and the
eye is an abolished organ. 'That, however, there
should be no communication between the sleepwaket•
and external objects does by no means follow. We
have seen that real information respecting the mate-
rial world can be conveyed through other inlets of
the body than the ordinary. In the same manner,
it may be affirmed that even our common experience
may show us sensation taking place through other
external media than the ordinary. Let us adhere to
our principle, that similar motions of the nerves may
be produced in various ways, and different causes
end in the same result; and here also it will not
fail us.
s 6
396 THE MEDIUM OF -.
The deaf, who hear and enjoy music by ineans of·
a staff connecting their teeth, or their chest, with a.·
musical instrument, do really use another medium·
than the air for the conveyance of acoustic impulses.
In the same way, we have instances to show that real
information respecting external actions of matter
may reach from great distances by other than the
usual media. Water is even a better conductor of
sound than air. "According to the experiments of
M. Colladon the sound of a bell was conveyed under
water, through the Lake of Geneva, to the distance
of about nine miles." Yet again : " The velocity
of sound, in passing through solids, is in proportion
to their hardness, and is much greater than in air
or water. A sound, which takes some time in tra-·
velling through the air, passes almost instantaneously
along a wire 600 feet long; consequently it is heard
twice; first, as communicated by the wire, and
afterwards through the medium of the air. The
facility with which the vibrations of sound are
transmitted along the grain of a log of wood is well
known. Indeed, they pass through iron, glass, and
some kinds of wood, at the rate of 18,530 feet in a
second."
Does any thing similar take place with regard to
light? There does; and even in a more remarkable
manner. The electic medium is a far more swift.
and subtle messenger of vision than is the luminous
ether. " A wheel revolving with celerity sufficient
to render its spokes invisible, when illuminated by a
flash of lightning, is seen, for an instant, with all its
MESMERIC · SENSATION. 397•
spokes distinct, as if it were in a state of absolute re-
pose ; because, however rapid the motion may be, the
light has come and already ceased, before the wheel
has had time to tum through a sensible space."
Again, some ingenious experiments, by Professor
Wheatstone, demonstrate to a certainty that the speed
of the electric fluid much surpasses the velocity of
light. It is therefore a different medium -yet can
it serve for all the purposes of vision, and even in a
SUptJrior manner. After hearing these things, shall
we start at the notion of mesmeric sensation being
conveyed through another medium than that in or.;
dinary action? Even should the sleepwaker perceive
the most distant objects (as some are said to have
done), can we, from the moment a means of commu-
nication is hinted to us, be so much amazed? If
his perception be more vivid, there seems to be an
efficient cause in his abjuring the grosser media for
such are more swift and subtle.
But the mesmerised person perceives objects not
only at a distance, but through obstacles which .are
complete impediments to ordinary vision. Let us
keep in view our principle. Motions of the nerves,
and something to produce those motions, in corre-
spondence with an external cause, are the required
conditions which we seek to unite. If a mesmerised
person seems to· behold an object through an ob-
stacle which commonly bars vision, let us not take
so vulgar a view of this apparent miracle as to sup-
pose that the sleepwaker's sight pierces thro1,1gh
opaque bodies. It is not, in any case, .the eye, but
398 THE MEDIUM OF
the medium, which penetrates the obstacle. The
impulsion on the optic nerve is the cause of vision,
and, if we can find a medium to transmit that im-
pulsion, athwart whatever impediments, vision will
take place. Any interruption in the medium would
be the real obstacle to vision. Cut that off by the
finest and most imperceptible barrier, you at once
render vision impossible; but, as long as it continues
to be transmitted through bodies, the most appa•
rently dense vision will not be prevented-an object
is brought into relation with us. This is the whole
history of seeing;-and is it, in fact, more wonderful
that any one should be brought into relation with an
object by means of an impulse transmitted through
an obstacle, than that the astronomer should be
brought into relation with a star by means or light
which left it a thousand years ago? We seek, then,
a medium, which shall act through obstacles, which
is able to transmitimpulses athwart them, unimpeded,
unimpaired. Now, as Newton observes, "the effluvia
of a magnet _
can be so rare and subtile, as to pass
through a plate of glass, without any resistance or
diminution of their force, and yet so potent as to
turn a magnetic needle beyond the glass." And
this effect of magnetism, as we now know, is but one
of the actions of electricity, which can pierce not
only through diaphanous but through opaque bodies,
and which is now supposed to pervade not only the
regions of space, but every interstice between the
particles of apparently solid matter. The electric
force, then, will naturally occur to him who seeks a
MESMERIC SE,NSATION. 399
penetrating and pervading medium, as resolvable of
the enigma.of mesmeric sensation.
The philosopher also will remember thatelectricity,
when brought to act upon the nerves, in that peculiar
form of it which is called galvanism, is capable of
affecting all the senses, making us seem to hear, see,
taste or feel. Moreover, it has just been proved to
equal or surpass light in its capacity of producing
real sensations of vision in correspondence with ex-
ternal objects. It may, however, here be objected
that electricity never does this save in a manner visi-
ble to all men ; that if there be vision by means of
electricity, there is also an actual electric spark, or
flash ;-whereas, in mesmerism, it is not pretended
that there is any agency cognisable by any person
but the sleepwaker himself. This is true. But, then,
be it remembered, the luminous medium itself can be
manifestly shown to have other actions than those
with which men in general are acquainted-actions
which can only be perceived by beings in a peculiar
state ofsensibility, or more finely organised than our-
selves. As an author, to whom I am already deeply
indebted, has remarked,-" It is quite possible that
many vibrations may be excited in the ethereal me-
dium, incapable ofproducing undulations in the fibres
of the human retina, which yet have a powerful effect
on those of other animals, or of insects. Such may
receive luminous impressions, ofwhich we are totally
unconscious, and, at the same time, they may be in-.
sensible to the light and colours,which affect our eyes;
their perceptions beginning where ours end.'' ·.,
400 THE MEDlUM OF ..
A proof of the soundness of the above conclusions.
is the fact that the owl and the cat pursue their prey,
just when the increasing obscurity renders other ani-
mals purblind. The degrees of visual sensibility in
different persons are also to be remarked. A lady of
my acquaintance performed one evening what might
have passed for a mesmeric miracle, deciphering a
letter, written in a small cramped hand, at a time
when there was so little light that five or six persons
of our society (myselfamongstthe number) could not
make out a single word of the letter. That some in-
dividuals, in certain states of the nervous system, see
in an obscurity which to other persons appears total,
has been before observed. A case of this kind was
very recently mentioned to me by a medical man,
with every particularity of detail. A peasant, who
had fallen into a state of illness from having im-
prudently plunged his head, when heated, into a
bucket of cold water, could no longer bear the light
of day, but was able to discern objects in apparent
darkness. A number of gentlemen visiting him out
of curiosity, made him tell the time (in darkness) by
their watches, which they altered sufficiently often to
be sure of the correctness of the experiment. As
the man recovered his health, the susceptibility of
his optic nerves gradually subsided. to the usual
pitch. These facts should lead us to beware under
what circumstances we pronounce vision impossible;
and should teach us not to limit the perception of
others by the boundaries of our own. It is evident
that ·a finer medium and a finer degree of sensi-:-
l
MESMERIC SENSATION. 401
bility, co-operating to produce mesmeric vision, are
causes perfectly adequate to account for all its phe-
·nomena.
There is one remark respecting mesmeric sensation
important to be made. In our normal state, the use
of our external organs is not only to modify impulses,
but to concentrate them, properly modified, on a par.:.
ticular nerve. Now, it may be asked, how, when the
concentrating organs are removed out of the way,
can impulsions be concentrated upon the nervous sys-
tem, so as to bring the sleepwaker in correspondence
with particular objects, it being evident that, in the
general motions of a general medium there could be
none of that particularity and selection which sensa-
tion evidently requires? To satisfy ourselves on this
question, we have only to remember that the sleep-
waker does not, in general, seem to know on every
side, but that the most common mode of mesmeric
perception (there being two, as I have pointed out) is
by a concentrated sensibility in one particular portion
of the frame, which constitutes, as it were, an organ
whereby in fact impulses coming from without are
concentrated, as they ordinarily are, in another way;
by the usual organs. That sleepwakers really do use
some part of the nervous system as an organ of con-
centration, I have had frequent occasion to remark-
Anna M. always bringing her forehead in a line
with an object she wished to examine, and often start-
ing at the moment when her forehead came opposite
the object, as if she were struck by the impulses of
some invisible medium. When this was the case, she
402 THE MEDIUM OF
was always correct in her perceptions. In thus
bringing the nervous system into immediate relation
with an object by means of one restricted portion of
the nervous system, it is evident that the analogies of
nature are preserved.
Thus in examining the media, the action of which
forms the external pre-requisites of sensation, we
seem to ·arrive at a general ground or principle,
just as, in examining the action of the nerves, or ,
the internal pre-requisites of sensation, we formerly
arrived at a ground or principle. And the one
seems perfectly adjusted to the other. From what
we know of the constitution of nature, also, we
should expect to come to some ground in sensation,
for the discoveries of modern science tend to resolve
all forces, even gravitation itself, into varied actions
of one medium; and, the universaHty ofthat medium
being once allowed, it is plain that it must be the
ground in sensation, as in all things else. Besides,
viewing man as more than the ephemeral being of a
day and more especially viewing him in his extended
relationships to creation, considering, too, all we
know or see as but parts of one great system, we
should expect not only to arrive at some ground in
sensation, which had not precisely reference to the
transitory purposes of this life, but at some general
ground, which might be common to all beings, and
which might largely pervade the universe.
The media, which now act upon our organs, we
should as much conceive to be modifications of the
MESMERIC SE!i'SATION. 403
pervading and ethereal medium, as our organs them-
selves are manifestly modifications of the sentient
principle. So, in a new state ofman, which takes him,
as it were, out of his sphere, for a while, and extends
his relations to things in general by removing the
modifications of the external senses, we should expect
to find a corresponding removal of the modifying
media, and a correspondent approximation to the
general groundwork of sensation. Something like
such a universal principle or agency in sensation has
long been suspected to exist.
Newton, speaking of his celebrated ether, says : -
" Is not vision performed chiefly through the
vibrations of this medium, excited in the bottom of
the eye by the rays of light, and propagated through
the solid, pellucid, and uniform capillamenta of the
optic nerves into the place of sensation ? And is not
hearing performed by the vibrations either of this or
some other medium, excited in the auditory nerves
by the tremors of the air, and propagated through
the solid, pellucid, and uniform capillamenta of those
nerves into the place of sensation ? And so of the
other senses."
Admit this, and the mysteries of sensation in sleep-
waking stand revealed. When once we see clearly
(as see we must, if we consider nature aright), that
the communication between all portions of the uni-
verse is continuous and incapable of interruption-
that there is a pervading medium, filling all things,·
permeating all, - the extended sphere of mesmeric
404 THE MEDIUM OF
faculties appears no longer miraculous. The hiatus
once supplied, which seeming obstacles created to our
apprehensions, there is no link wanting in the chain
which connects us with external objects. All is har-
monious- all is clear. And the facts of mesmerism
alone would establish this beautiful simplicity in the
economy of nature and in our own ; proving that
Newton, when he suggested a universal agent in
sensation, outran his age, and in a moment divined
that which to elucidate will occupy future ages. But,
alas I he who defends the cause of mesmerism, be-
cause he is penetrated with its truth, is "cahin'd,
cribb'd, confin'd" in his mode of argument. He
cannot support a theory, however noble, by the facts
of mesmerism, nor reason from them by the most
legitimate induction : for he is called upon to prove
that the facts themselves are not absurdities,-that all.
which he perceives to be so admirably illustrative of
Nature's order is not anomalous and monstrous. The.
foundation-stones of belief for his system are not ye~
laid ; and he has to lay them in a quaking and un-
stable soil, even as the first builders of Venice had.to
waste their materials beneath the engulphing eea,
long before the ocean city could rise, in stability and
beauty, from the waves. A time, however, is at hand,
when the facts of mesmerism, being accepted as facts,
will themselves be used as the most valuable demon-.
strations of truths and principles, which the genius
of g•·eat men foreknew.
If it may be permitted me, for a moment, to antici- .
MESMERIC SENSATION. 405.
pate that era, I may remark that the fact of the sleep-
waker seeing colours, when the usual action of light is
plainly absent, while he does not behold objects mag-
nified through a convex glass, is a proof that, as
Newton conjectured, the efficient cause ofvision is the
vibration of another medium than light, and is not
dependent on the anterior mechanism ofthe eye. All
this is in perfect harmony with science. Colours
depend on vibrations of the optic nerves, which vibra-
tions are shown to be more perfectly and permanently
produced by electricity even than by light; for Pro-
fessor Wheatstone exhibited by electric light colours
distinctly, and as at rest, when they were revolving so
rapidly as to be all mingled together into white under
any ordinary illumination. On the other hand, the
enlargement of objects by a magnifying glass is a
mechanical effect dependent on a modification of
light, which could not take place where the con-
ditions are so plainly absent as in the mesmeric
slumber. The result of the experiment is at once
conformable to reason and to science, and indicative
of the sincerity of the sleepwaker. Here, also, we
may see the difference between sensation general and
special. The peculiar action of light, whereby an
object is magnified, is only an adaptation to our pre-
sent imperfect organs. By it we gain no new, no
peculiar, no fundamental idea: we only see objects
when magnified, as if they were nearer ; but the
notion of colour is specifically different from every
other, and is common, we may suppose, to all ani-
406 THE MEDIUM OF
mated creatures. Thus is mesmerism, in all its parts,
calculated to lead us to principles of extensive appli-
cation. If it seems to contradict our former know-
ledge, it only contradicts it in its externals and
deceptive appearances. But in truth it never does
contradict either nature or previous knowledge; it is
only in opposition to narrow views. The more we
become aware what true experience is, the more shall
we find that from experience mesmerism strays not.
If men had wished to believe it, half the evidence
that is now brought forward to prove it possible
would have proved it sure.
I conclude my remarks on sensation by recalling
to the reader's mind a few of the most important re-
flections on which we have been engaged, taking
sight, our chief sense, as the type and example of
the rest.
The real nature of vision is as shut to the vulgar
as the mesmeric mode of sight is to the learned.
By the eye we appreciate light and colour : only
the rest is an operation of the judgment.
Viewed metaphysically, seeing is but a particular
kind of knowledge : viewed physically, seeing consists
in certain nervous motions, responsive to the motions
of a medium. That medium, in our ordinary con-
dition, is light, the action of which seems cut offand
intercepted in the case of mesmeric vision.
When, therefore, we hear that a mesmerised person
bas correctly seen an object through obstables, which
to us appear opaque, we, conceiving no means of
MESMERIC SENSATION. 407
communication between the person and the object,
exclaim that the laws of nature have been violated.
But, in all caseswhere information is conveyed through
interrupted spaces, show but the means of communi-
cation, and astonishment ceases.
When we know that there is a medium, permeating
in one or other of its forms all substances whatever,
and that this medium is eminently capable of exciting
sensations of sight, and when we take this in conjunc-
tion with a heightened sensibility in the percipient
person, rendering him aware of impulses whereof we
are not cognisant, we are no longer inclined to deny
a fact or suppose a miracle.
Finally, all sensation has but one principle. All
that is required for its production is that objects
should be brought into a certain relation with us by
something intermediate; and this is effected by the
impulsions of certain media upon nerves, the laat
changes in which are the immediate forerunners of
completed sensation.
Thus things, which are beheld in their primal es-
sences by the Almighty, are to us known in their
beautiful results. It is to the idea, not to the con-
trivance for exciting the idea, that we are to look;
for the unlettered peasant, who has a conviction and
a feeling what light is, has in reality as true a notion
of this the first effluence of supernal power as he who
has divided the sunbeams with a prism or calculated
the undulations of the etherial medium. With respect
to external things, we have only to consider God and
man -not God and the philosopher.
408 THE MI:DJUM OF MESMERIC SENSATION.
Taking this simple view of sensation, we find no-
thing in mesmerism contradictory of nature. Under
its influence the human frame continues to be still a
system of nerves acted upon by elastic media, for the
purpose of conveying to us the primal impulses of the
Almighty mind, which made, sustains, and moves the
universe.
409
BOOK IV.·
" To every form of being is assign'd
An active principle : - bowe'er remov'd
From sense and observation, it subsists
In all things, in all natures, in the stars
Of azure heaven, the unenduriog clouds,
In flower and tree, in every pebbly stone
That paves the brooks, the stationary rocks,
The moving waters, and the invisible air."
WoRDSWORTH.
SECT. I.
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
HAVING, as I trust, shown the conformity of mes-
merism, in all essential points, with the principles of
nature and the inferences of reason, I now proceed
to exhibit it in connection with such a cause as its
peculiar manifestations indicate and demand.
First, I affirm that, productive of the effects caJled
mesmeric, there is an action ofmatter as distinct and
specific as that of light, heat, electricity, or any other
of the imponderable agents, as they are called ; -
that, when the mesmeriser influences his patient, he
does this by a medium,. either known already in
another guise, or altogether new to our experience.
T
410 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
What proofs, it will be asked, can I bring forward
of this assertion? I answer, such proofs as are con-
sidered available in all cases where an impalpable
imponderable medium is to be considered ; facts,
namely, or certain appearances, which, bearing ape-
culiar character, irresistibly suggest a peculiar cause.
Let us take only one of these.
Standing at some yardi distant from a person who
is in the mesmeric state (that person being perfectly
stationary, and with his back to me), I, by a slight
motion of my hand (far too slight to be felt by the
patient, through any disturbance of the air), draw
him towards me, as if I actually grasped him.
What is the chain of facts which is here presented
to me? First, an action of my mind, without which
I could not have moved my hand; secondly, my
hand's motion; thirdly, motion produced in a body
altogether external to, and distant from mysel£ But
it will at once be perceived, that, in the chain of
events, as thus stated, there ia a deficient link. The
communication between me and the distant body is
not accounted for. How could an act of my mind
originate in an effect so unusual?
That which- is immaterial cannot, by its very defi-
nition, move massE'S of water. It is only when
mysteriously united to a body that l'pirit is brought
into relationship with place or extension, and under
such a condition alone, and only through such a
medium, can it propagate motion. Now, in some
wondrous way, spirit is in us incorporate. Our
bodies are its medium of action. By them, and only
THE MBSMERIC MEDIUM. 4ll
by them, as far'' as our experience reaches, are we
enabled to move masses of foreign matter. I may
sit and may will for ever that yonder chair come
to me, but without the direct agency of my body
it must remain where it is. All the willing in the
world cannot stir it an inch. I must bring myself
into absolute contact with the body which I desire to
move. But, in the case betbre us, I will- I extend
my hands; I move them hither and thither, and I see
the body of another person- a mass of matter ex-
ternal to myself, yet not in apparent contact with
me- moved and swayed by the same action which
stirs my own body. Am I thence to conclude that a
miracle has been performed-that the laws of nature
are reversed -that I can move foreign matter with-
out contact, or intermediate agency? Or must I
not rather be certain that, if I am able to sway a
distant body, it is by means of some unseen lever-
that volition is employing something which is equi-
valent to a body- something, wbieh may be likened
to an extended corporeity, which has become the
organ of my will ?
Surely there is no effect without a cause; and
from actiona we may infer the existence of an agent.
We do this a thousand times in other cases,-in that
of mesmerism, for instance. We never behold this
power but in its results. It cannot even be made
evident, like the electric spark, or felt in our own
persons, like the galvanic concuiSion. The needle
that has become a magnet, bas undergone no ch~mge
which any mortal sight is fine enough to appreciate,
T2
412- THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
bas acquired no weight which can be detected by
our earthly senses. Yet, solely because we are sure
that we behold certain phenomena, we allow that
there is a distinct form of electricity, to which we
have given the name of magnetism. Why should
we refuse to mesmerism that which we grant to
magnetism? It is true that as yet we have no ba-
lance of torsion, whereby the mPameric force can he
measured; but in the human body itself we do
possess an instrument whereby its presence may be
ascertained ; nor would it be reasonable to insist
upon separate agencies being detected by the same
test. Why, then, but from the force of prejudiee,
should we call the mE>Smeric medium a gratuitous
assumption? That such a medium exists is not a
_gratuitous assumption, but an unavoidable deduction
of reason. But there is a class of persons who refuse
to admit of anything which they cannot see, taste,
or handle; with such it is difficult to argue. Should
proofs by experiment be exhibited to them again and
again, they still return to their cuckoo note-
" Show me the agent." One of these practical men,
as they are called, actually said to me on one occa-
sion, " I never will believe that what you call mes-
merism exists, unless you can put it in a bottle, and
submit it to analysis."
To what end, then, is reason given us, if not to
judge of things invisible by those which are clearly
seen? For what purpose possess we the irresistible
-propensity to supply deficient links in a chain of caus-
ation, if not to prompt us where our senses fail ? We
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 413
move a magnet over a needle; the needle moves in a
corresponding manner; and the human mind is so
constituted that we cannot behold these two facts, in
seeming connection, without uniting them by a third~
which we consider as proved by them, since it is in
truth their necessary consequence. We infer that
the effect is produced by means of a magnetic cu1·rent
or medium, - a something which propagates motion
from the magnet to the needle. This something we
cannot indeed behold;-yet do we believe in it, -
and with justice, for that which reason perceives to
be necessary is not an invention, and can never be
superfluous: on the contrary, the only immutable and
essential truths come out of the mould of the intuitive
reason, which, as Coleridge observes, stops not at
" this will be so," but at once decides, " This must
be so."
Now, in all cases where motion is communicated
from one body to another, the line of communication
must be maintained unbroken. The first impulse
gives motion to certain atoms, which in their turn
propel others, and so on, till the whole series between
the active body and the body which is to receive the
original impulse is set in motion, and then, at length,
the sequence of events is complete, and the body, t~
wards which motion tended, is set vibrating. If the
medium that propagates the first impulsion be undu·
latory and elastic, its atoms only oscillate on either
aide a fixed point of t•est; but, if it be composed of
travelling atoms, there is an actual progression of the
medium. In either case, motion is propagated by
'f 3-.
414 THE MESliERIC MEDIUM.
a real action ofmatter till it reach its final destination.
This is the history of all communicated motion, and
.it is plain that this holds good whether we behold the
colleetion of atoms, in a bodily shape, that transmits
the motion, as in the case of one billiard ball propel-
ling another, or whether we behold them not, as in
the case ofsound being communicated to the ear from
a vibrating body, by means of the interYeniog air.
I grant that the old axiom, " A body eanoot act
where it is not," is very properly exploded ; but for
it we must substitute another; namely, " A body can-
not act where it is not, save by deputy, or translni.-
sive means." Yet some have overlooked this truth,
and in their zeal to avoid theories, when they behold
two sensible actions, evidently dependent the one on
the other, and yet apparently disjoined, fear to unite
them properly by suggesting the presence of an un-
seen link, which nevertheless cannot but occur
between the visible antecedent and the visible conse-
quent; for motion is not an entity that can go through
void spaces independently and alone ; it is merely a
property which has no existence ont of the subject
that manifests it; and, where matter tiills, there ~
tion fails also. It is vain, then, to bold such lan-
guage as if it were possible for one body to produce
motion in another without something intermediate, -
that is, miraculously and without means ; yet your
good hater of theories will even dare to blame Newton
for having suggested an ether to account for that
action which one body produces on another, and even,
in many cases, from vast distances, and which we call
attraction. It is true that Newton may be wrong in
'
\
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 415
the manner in which he manages his ether, and ac-
counts far impulsion and re-impulsion by differences
of dense and rare; but he cannot be wrong in pre-
serving an unbroken series of atoms between separate
bodies which manifestly influence each other,- be-
tween the sun and the earth for instance, - since, in
this case, there is mutual action, and motion commu-
nicated from a distance. Extending the principle,
and perceiving that all the heavenly bodies were in
mutual relationship, and the whole celestial system
harmoniously bound together, Newton supposed his
ether to be of universal action, and to fill and pervade
creation, establishing a means of communication be-
tween all its several parts. Were this allowed, there
would be but little difficulty in explaining mesmerism;
but a sublime divination of this kind is too vast for
the general understanding. · Accordingly, even New-
ton's name has failed to render the theory palateable,
and men of small views have dared to call even this
suggestion of a mighty mind graiuitow, treating its
author with a levity which can only lessen one's re-
spect for the objectors. Have these cavillers an in-
tellect superior to Newton's own? If they have, let ,
them give us something better than Newton's sug·
gestions (better, not only in their own opinion but in
ours) respecting the great problems of creation;
some theory more solid and sublime to satisfy the
cravings of humanity after pure and lofty generalis-
ation : till then let them, at least by silence, acquiesce
in ·Professor Playfair's beautifully expressed opinion
of the queries :-" Such enlarged and comprehensive
T4
..16 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
views, so many new and bold conceptions, were never
before combined·with the sobriety and caution of
philosophical induction. The anticipation of future
discoveries, the assemblage of so many facts from the
most distant regions of human research, all brought
to bear on the same points, and to elucidate the same
questions, are never to be sufficiently admired.'' In
recalling this to the reader's mind, 1 trnst that I seem
not to stray from my subject, which is in truth
so deeply implicated in the truth or falsehood of
Newton's principal suggestions. But 1 might leave
this great man's defence to time, which already has
~'brought in its revenges," science being even now
occupied in developing Newton's ideas, and in esta-
blishing as undoubted truths the greater part of all
which he so modestly advanced as queries. Facts re.
lative to the acceleration observed in the mean motion
of comets have demonstrated, to the satisfaction of
men of science, the existence of a resisting medium,
undulatory and elastic, which pervades the known
universe.
How frequently it has thus happened that the de..
duetions of the pure reason have triumphed over the
cavils and hesitations of the understanding which,
being conversant with matters of experience only,
cannot step beyond the sensuous and the known !
Kepler believed that the harmony of our systeni re-
quired a planet between Mars and Jupiter, and the
deficiency is now actually supplied by the discovery
of the four singular orbs which seem once to have
formed but one single body. My reader's memory
will doubtless supply other instances where the philo-
III
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM·~ 417.
sopher in his closet has outrun experiment, and ha~
divined what future observation has verified and
facts confirmed. When, then, we find Mesmer (who,
whatever were his faults of conduct, was no con-
temptible thinker) suggesting a universal medium as.
alone explanatory of mesmeric phenomena, let us,
instead of unwisely scoffing, inquire whether the cir~
cumstances of the case may not possibly render the
existence of such a medium a positive necessity, an~
a truth palpable to reason. This at least we know,
that all science seems now tending to refer the appa..
rently distinct agencies of nature to the varied oper..
ation of one medium ; to establish, in fine, an ethel'
such as Newton had imagined, and such as Mesmer
perceived would satisfactorily account for the ~ppa­
rent miracles of his new science.
Now whether mesmerism be a distinct medium, or
only the distinct effect of a general medium, widely
manifested in other offices, I wiU not take upon my.,.
self to decide. We no longer conaider electricity, .
magnetism, even light itself; to be separate and ind~
pendent agents; we call them effects. .And this i11
well, if we remember to refer effects to causes, an<t
properties and qua1ities to real substances and sub-
jects. We must not turn all the goings-on of th~
world into mere abstractions. Vibrations imply a
vibrating body; electric motions or concussions,
something that moves or is concussed. It wil1, in:-
deed, greatly siq1plify our ideas, to consider all th~
various appearances of nature as so ~ny actions of
matter, but we must beware of supposing that, wher'
T5 _;
418 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
action is present, matter can be absent. I am very
willing, then, to call all mesmeric phenomena effect.;
but I not the less contend that they must be effects of
something. I am willing to consider mesmerism itself
as an action of matter, yet still of matter. I cannot
tell whether, in the case of mesmeric agency matter
assumes the form of a fluid or a gas, but I know and
am sure that material agency there is. This agency
may be only one of the modifications of a substance
which operates in other ways, or it may be the single
action of a single substance. But, in fact, the proba-
bility is, that there are really various media in nature,
the finer, we may suppose, occupying the interstice&
of the grosser, distinct yet interfused, wheel within
wheel, a subtle mechanism. Every one knows that
the atmosphere is the medium through which sound
is conveyed to us. A bell rung under the exhausted
receiver of an air-pump is inaudible; but the crystal
walls, that keep out air, bar not the passage of light
and heat. Newton's experiment of this, and his
consequent reasoning on the fact, appear to me con-
clusive. He says, Qu. 18.-" If, in two large, tall,
cylindrical vessels of glass, inverted, two little ther-
mometers be suspended, so as not to touch the ves-
sels, and the air be drawn out of one of these vessels,
and these vessels, thus prepared, be carried out of a
cold place into a warm one, the thermometer in
vacuo will grow warm as much and almost as soon as
the thermometer which is not in vacuo. And, when
the vessels are carried back into the cold place, the
thermometer in vacuo will grow cold almost as soon
as the other thermometer.· Is not the heat of the
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.· .419
warm room conveyed through the vacuum by the
vibrations of a much subtiler medium tpan air,
which, after the air was drawn out, remained in the
vacuum? And is not this medium the same with that
medium by which light is refracted and reflected?"
The conclusion which such experiments force upon
us is, that there really exist in nature different
media, related, yet distinct. If, therefore, I am un-
derstood literally instead of figuratively, when I speak
of mesmerism as an individual agency, I shall not
seem greatly to have violated the analogies of nature.
This at least I affirm, mesmerism has its own pecu·
liar action ; and therefore, for the sake of conve.
nience, I shall denominate matter, as it is developed
in this particular way, the mesmeric medium, a term
with which, I trust, none of my readers will be dis-
posed to quarrel ; the advantage and propriety of
referring one class of effects to one cause being ma-
nifest. We do this naturally in all cases where dis-
tinction is required. The imponderable fluids are
still characterised, pro formU., by individual names,
though, we believe, that they may be children of one
parent. From certain effects we are allowed to pre.
sume the existence of a luminous medium. I, there-
fore, by parity of reasoning, may be allowed, from
other effects, to infer the existence of a mesmeric
medium.
And, in truth, there is no agency which more
manifestly than this may claim to be distinctive, since
it is developed under quite other circumstances ;
and, being developed, presents quite other pheno-
T 6
420 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
mena than any material action with which we ha,·e
hitherto been acquainted.
It neither results from a union of gases, nor from
chemical composition. It is not developed by the
rubbing of amber or the juxtaposition of minerals.
It is elicited by certain actions of living nature alone.
Viewed merely as a physical agency, it originates
.a sleep, sui generis, which pervades the external
organs, yet leaves the intelligence free; it brings the
nervous system into a state of exceeding sensibility,
rendering it cognisant of influences by which at
~ther times it is wholly unaffected.
Now, what is the medium we know not; and there-
fore all that remains for us, in om· ignorance, to do, i,
to gather as much information concerning it as we can.
We cannot analyse it in the same manner as light. or
separate it into its component parts, like the atmo-
sphere; but every agent has its own elements, and
consequently a method of analysis proper to itself.
This is clear; in its mode of action it can alone be
made manifest; its sensible action, therefore, is the
legitimate sphere in which it may be studied ; and,
till we have all its facts and relations, we have only
to observe its phenomena, and to state the results of
our observation as plainly as possible.
First, then, it is an agency, which has physical
effects on man.•
That any one, who has been conversant with even
• And on brutes also. On this point I could state many
curious particulars : but I desire to startle my reader as little as
(lOSsible, and to exclude from the pre1ent work whatever bears
not strict reference to the hu111an influence.
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 421
the first symptoms produced by mesmerism, should
doubt the physical and distinct character of the
agency, seems impossible. However marvellous be
the train of mental phenomena consequent upon its
operation, its primary effects are undoubtedly upon
the body of the patient. Those who are neither
under the predisposing influence of fear or of ima~
gination, who know not what they have to expect, who,
perhaps, close their eyes from the beginning of the .
experiment, all agree in feeling a weight upon the .
eyeli~ accompanied by a slight pricking ; then fol-
)ows the sensation ofa cold current of air, streaming
in the direction of the mesmeriser's fingers, and ofa
torpor in the limbs, which gradually increases, until
spontaneous motion becomes not only difficult but
impossible to the patient.
A lady of much intelligence, whom I recently
mesmerised at Rome, was determined to observe, as
long as she could retain her consciousness, what
would be her sensationa under the mesmeric influ-
ence. On recovering from the sleep into which she
had been 'successfully thrown, she told me that at
first she felt an increasing weight upon the eyelids,
· and an inclination to close them, which she endE'a-
.voured to combat by looking often at a vase con-
.taining flowers that stood opposite to her. By
degrees, however, a kind of vapour seemed to steal
between herself and the object she regarded, until
she could distinguish nothing whatever. Her eyelid!!
were then irresistibly drawn together. After closing
them she was aware of a tingling in the arms, and
currents ofair seemed to move arou~d her in various
~~ THE MESMERIC MEDIUM• .
directions. The strength and velocity of thf'Se cur-
rents appeared constantly to increase, until the power
of observation failed and consciousness was sua- ·
pended. Subsequently, when in the natural state,
she begged me to say whether I had not moved my
hands rapidly and violently when mesmerising her,
~ as to produce those currents of air which she had
felt. I assured her that, on the contrary, I had
moved my hands slowly and gently all the time.
She, then, still incredulous, begged me to repeat the
same movements which I had used in mesmerising. I
did so, and she declared that she could not at all feel
those currents to which she had been sensible in the
incipient state of sleepwaking.
E. A., (the youth who enjoyed such a high degree
of mesmeria vision,) used to describe similar sensa•
tions, and has frequently spoken to me of a kind of
vapour rising before his eyes during mesmerisation.
When questioned about this in sleepwaking, he
declared that the vapour proceeded from me, and
seemed to penetrate and pervade his frame. This he
asserted to be the effectual cause of the mesmeric
sleep.
. Nothing is more interesting than to mark the cor-
respondences of sensation under meimeric treatment,
manifested by different persons, at different times,
and in different places. Every fresh instance of such
analogical feeling is as a new argument in favour of
the reality and constancy of mesmeric influence.
Other facts are not wanting, which contribute to
bring the agency within the domain of physics.
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 423
Like the galvanic force it seems capable of aggre·
gation in being transmitted through kindred sub-
stances.
I have sometimes formed what may be called a
mesmeric pile, by seating five or six persons together
in a line, or half-circle, holding each other's hands :
I have then mesmerised the first in the rank, who
has passed on the influence tO the second, who has
again transmitted it to the third, and so on, by each
pressing the hand held by each, at regular periods of
time. Under this treatment I have invariably found
that the mesmeric influence was most powerfully de-
monstrated in the person who was farthest from my-
self; that is, in the person who received the original
impulse through the greatest number of intervening
transmitters. The shades of gradation were also in
these experiments justly preserved: the first person
scarcely experiencing any sensation, the second feel-
ing a more decided influence, and so in progression,
till the last was thrown into the complete mesmeric
state.
Again : That the mesmeric influence is capable of
exhaustion and repair, like any oth~r physical agency,
has been frequently forced upon my conviction. That
when I am strongest I can best mesmerise, is a fact
known to me from personal experience ; also, that
my power declines in proportion to the fatigue con-
sequent upon its t>xertion. This was very strikingly
exemplified in some experiments, in which Professor
Agassiz of Neufchfttel, in Switzerland, kindly bore a
part; thus enabling me to honour mesmerism by
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM~
associating it with the name of one of the most dis-
tinguished natuarlists in Europe.
After mesmerising the Professor himself for an
hour, during which I felt considerably fatigued, I
made an essay upon a person, whom I usually influ-
enced with full success. This time, however, I only
partially succeeded ; and a third trial upon another
individual, who, in general, was most susceptible to
the mesmeric influence, was wholly unsuccessful.
The failure was quite unlooked for, and astonished
the patient himself, who exclaimed, after I had mes-
merised him for a considerable time, " This is surpris-
ing ! I feel nothing whatever ! You produce no
effect upon me this evening.'' After resting half an
hour, and taking a glass of wine, I again attempted to
influence this patient. I now succeeded better than
on the first trial, yet still could bring him no further
than the first stage of imperfect mesmeric sleep.
I may also remark that the act of mesmerising is
followed by a very peculiar sensation of exhaustion
and fatigue, for which the slight muscular exertion
which the process demands is quite insufficient to
account. Exercise in the open air, and such means
as are best calculated to restore the bodily strength
in general, I have found to be the best restoratives
on such occasions. Yet, though particular acts of
mesmerising induce temporary fatigue, it is quite
certain that the general mesmeric force of an indi.
vidual is strengthened, like any other corporeal gift,
by just and regular exercise. As a magnet which is
~id by has not half the power that it has when kept
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 425
in action, so, as I have found by experience that a
mesmeriser who is out of practice has actually less of
mesmeric influence than when he mesmerises regu·
larly, with a due attention to the "ne quid nimis."
This, again, brings the medium within the domain
of physics.
Another discovery which.I have been enabled to
make respecting the action of mesmerism is, that it
decidedly bears a relation to the slowness or rapidity
of the mesmeriser's respiration during the act of mes-
meriSlng. I have tried this again and again, and
always with the same result. In proportion to the
rapidity of my breathing was the effect produced-
an effect independent of the actual efRuence of the
breath upon the patient (though this indeed alao aids
the mesmeric processes), for the same result has en-
sued when my head has been turned away from the
person I was mesmerising. How singularly this fact
connects the mesmeric with the chemical and vital
forces I need not observe.
At present it seems necessary that I should reply
to an objection, which, with some apparent justice,
may be advanced against the claim which mesmerism
puts forward to be considered as a physical agent.
It has been asserted that, when the attention of
mesmeric patients is preoccupied and divertE'd from
the mesmeric processes; or, when the imagination
has not been previously advised of an effect to follow,
the agency is null.
This statement demands an examination the more
serious, inasmuch as it is one of those half-truthiJ
426 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
which Coleridge has denounced as fatal to true phi-
losophy.
It must be allowed that the mesmeric influence is,
to a certain degree, impeded, should it be essayed
upon a person who is determined to resist it, or whose
mind is actively engaged upon other matters ; but
does this, can this prove that the agency is nulJ, save
in the imagination of the patient? The only thing
that it demonstrates with certainty is that which every
rational man who bas at all studied the subject must
concede-namely, that the force employed in the
mesmeric processes is not sudden, or violent in ita
action, but of the nature of those subtle influences
which it requires a certain attention, and indeed edu-
cation of the sensibility, to perceive. A savage hu
been known to track his pl"f'y, like a dog, by the ·
scent alone; and, in doing so, he must, of necessity,
fix all his attention upon the fine exhalations, whereby
he is guided. But how plainly absurd it would be to
affirm on that account, that there was no actual ex-
citing cause of the sensations of the savage ! But, it
is argued, the imagination must be forewarned before
the effects, called mesmeric, can occur ; and is not
this sufficient to refer them to the imitative power of
the imagination? The answer is not difficult.
Imagination, indeed, imitates; but then it must
have something to imitate. The very expression
presupposes a model, and gives real existence to the
subject in debate. Granting that which indeed I do
not concede- namely, that the effects of mesmerism
can be proved without .mesmerism, and by the im-
'l'HE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 427
agination solely, it by no means follows that certain
effects have not at certain times been produced by
mesmerism, and by pure mesmerism. That which is
spurious argues that which is true, and many copies
of a picture place the existence of an original beyond
a doubt.
Again: they who draw strong conclusions against
mesmerism byaffirming that it cannot take effect un-
less the imagination be prepared to receive it, ahould
remember that they, who, deeming they shall feel
nothing under mesmerism, and do actually feel no-
thing, are both forewarned and forearmed against the
influence in debate, and are thus themselves under
the predisposing sway of the imagination as much as
their opponents, only in a different manner; the one
party believing they shall, the other that they shall
not, experience certain effects. Under theae circum-
stances, how the latter can pretend to a more accurate
judgment on the point than the former, I confess I
cannot perceive. " Imagination does much," say the
anti-mesmerists-granted ; and let us have the full
benefit of the principle. If imagination be so potent,
it may also render insensible to mesmeric influence
those who are predetermined to feel nothing of it.
Yet more; the force of the mind to resist even the
most powerful influences may be easily shown by facts
to be great-nay, incalculable. In Lockhart's Life
of Scott, an anecdote, proving this, is related by Scott
himself, of one of the Duke of Buccleugh's farmers.
"His father had given him a quantity of laudanum
(writes Sir Walter) instead of some other medicine.
428 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
The mistake was instantly discovered ; but the young
man had sufficient energy and force of mind to combat
the operation of the drug. While aU around him
were stupid with fear, he rose, saddled his horse, and
rode to Selkirk (six or seven miles); thus saving the
time that the doctor must have taken in coming to
him. It is very curious that his agony of mind was
able to suspend the operation of the drug until he
had alighted, when it instantly began to operate. He
recovered perfectly."
The degree to which a person may resist, yet still
be influenced by, the mesmeric agency, when pre-
occupied by some counteracting idea, was, on one-
occasion, demonstrated to me, and, as it were, marked
off and measured in an interesting manner.
A friend of mine, at Cambridge, who knew nothing
whatever of animal magnetism (as it was then called)
but the name, consented to let me try an experiment
upon him before some incredulous persons, who had
said that they never would believe in the agency until
they saw it exhibited upon some one who did not
even know that he was to go to sleep. It being as-
certained that Mr. H-- (the sincerest of all men)
was really ignorant of even so much mesmeric lore,
I and my patient sate down in our proper relative
positiOns. At the end of five minutes (though it was
the unsleepy time of noon) Mr. H-- began to close
his eyes, and to nod; but soon started, rubbed his
eyes, shook himself, and went through all the usual
formula of a person who wishes to keep awake. This
alternate nodding and arousing went on for some
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 429
time, when, tired at length of such unsatisfactory
results, I gave the matter up and quitted my chair.
The patient was then questioned as to what he had
felt? " Only very sleepy," he replied. " I experi-
enced no electric shock, nor any thing of the kind,
though I watched and waited for it." " But if you
felt sleepy, why did not you go to sleep?" asked some
one. " Oh," answered Mr. H-, " what would I
not have given to have gone to sleep; but I thought
I must on no account do this, as I was to keep a
sharp look out for the electric shock!" My reader
may smile at this, but I can assure him that the
ignorance of my friend respecting the effects of mes-
merism is no measure of his information on other
subjects.
It appears, then, that the only concession we have
to make to the anti-mesmerist is, that the mood of
mind and body which is most favourable to the re-
ception of mesmeric influence is that which Words-
worth has characterised under the title of " a wise
passiveness." How completely this refutes the argu-
ments, or rather assumptions, of those, who would
resolve all mesmerism into imagination, is manifest.
But it is time that this question should be for ever
set at rest. How such a cause as imagination could
at any time be assigned or accepted as explanatory
of mesmeric phenomena, is matter of wonder, and
that it should be so, diminishes one's respect tbr the
sagacity of the human species. Here, indeed, is in-
efficient causation ! Here, truly, is gratuitous assump-
tion ! I have heard of imagination keeping persons
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
awake, but never of its setting them to sleep. This
busy power holds no possible alliance with mesmer-
ism, whose gentle influences, like streams, that are
only heard when we listen for them in the hush of
night, must be attended to with the quiet patience of
a peaceful spirit.
But the imagination theory is really too absurd to
merit a serious refutation.
A thousand times I have seen mesmeric patients
placed under circumstances where the action of im-
agination was plainly impossible. In proof of this,
I have only to refer to the preceding books of this
work. Persons, it will there be seen, have been
thrown into the mesmeric state when asleep, and
wholly unadvised of any experiment to be tried upon
them. They have been drawn towards the mesmer-
iser from a distance, when standing with their backs
to him; they have manifested phenomena, coinciding
with those displayed by other mesmeric patients at
different times and at different places, and which
could not have resulted from imitation, since the
patients themselves, not knowing a previous type,
were plainly incapable of producing a copy.
Surely facts like these imperatively call upon us to
acknowledge an agency, which we may call mesmeric,
or what we please, so long as we confound it not with
imagination, imitation, et hoc genus omne of ineffi-
cient and inapplicable causes.
But our views of mesmerism, as a distinct and
physical agent, would, indeed, be imperfect, were we
to stop here. Ourselves would then be guilty of
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 431
uttering only half the truth. Physical though the
agent be, its offices all touch upon life and thought
so nearly, that to regard it simply in a mechanical
light is impossible. In order to know it rightly, or
in any other than a partial manner, we must consider
it in its relationship to ourselves, living, breathing
men. If purely physical, why should it produce such
singular mental effects? and why should it not affect
all men alike? These are questions which will occur,
and which demand a satisfactory answer.
The cause must be sought in its acting more espe-
cially upon that most mysterious part of us -the
nervous system; -on the apparatus of sensation, the
builder-up of all we are, of all we know; -on that
wondrous portion of our being, which occupies the
very confines where mind and matter dimly meet ;-
on that which is more intimately ourselves than our
mere external frame, of which it appears to be the
strength and the life: for we may lose any member
of motion and yet preserve in their integrity all our
sources of information; but a trifling injury to the
optic or auditory nerve will cut us off from a whole
world of knowledge, and a slight pressure on the
brain may remove us at once beyond the pale of
humanity, into that fearful region where man's
"thoughts are combinations of disjointed things."
Let us further consider that, in fact, there is nothing
which affects us physically that does not also, to a
certain extent, affect us mentally, nay morally; every
agent in nature being calculated to call into action
all the capacities of our being; thus showing how
432 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
exquisitely, according to Wordsworth's beautiful
philosophy,
" The external world is fitted to the mind."
Light, by its presence or absence, disposes us to
courage or fear, joy or sorrow, hope or despondency.
Heat, when properly moderated, gives us a sensation
of well-being, of good-humour, and is favourable to
the exercise of our intellectual faculties; while, on
the other hand, cold is apt to extinguish both our wit
and our amiability. Pope remarks that the benevo-
lence of some persons depends on the state of the
atmosphere, and solves a generous action emanating .
from a churlish mind, by suggesting that
" Perhaps the wind just shifted from the east."
Shakspeare's advice not to ask a favour of a man till
·he has well dined will also be remembered. Wine,
and every species of stimulus, affect the mind through
the medium of the body. Even so mechanical a force
as that of.,.lectricity, if made to operate upon us, ex-
cites in us, according to our several characters, feelings
of surprise, fear, aversion, or curiosity. If these re-
marks be true, as regards such powers as act only
partially on the nervous system, how much more
must they apply to an agency which stimulates not
locally, but generaUy, the very capaCities of sensation!
Other agents affect the nerves circuitously, through
the intervention of modifying organs, but this, remov-
ing out of the way, as has been seen, the barriers of
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM, ' 433
the external senses, proceeds at once and directly to
the seat of internal sensibility. Its effects also have
been shown to be as durable as they are potent, not
operating, like electricity, which gives a shock and is
gone, but manifesting itself, when once set in action,
for a length of time, so as to demonstrate that the
nervous system can be charged with it in a very per~
manent and peculiar manner. What singular results
may not be expected from the operation of an agency
like this!
That mesmet·ism, then, should develope certain
mental phenomena in those whom it influences, is
no proof whatever that it may not originate physi..
cally. ·
.,~ Neither, if it should appear to affect all men
diversely, and some not at all, is the reality of its ex-
istence to be called in question. All agencies in na-
ture are neither electric nor irresistible, and we can-
not but allow that there is a class of powers which
act upon man constitutionally rather than mechani-
cally, and so are modified by accidental circumstances
of health or temperament. Even should we ulti-
mately be forced to rank mesmerism amongst these,
we should by no means have annulled its agency; we
should but have ascertained correctly its specific
character.
Still keeping in view that its influence is more pe-
culiarly directed upon the nervous system, we shall
learn to appreciate it justly, and, even should it ap-
pear hopelessly irregular, accept that irregularity as
the condition of its existence. How, indeed, can we
u
4,34 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
expect from mesmerism the constancy of a mere
mechanical impulse? Its diversities have their
origin in the very essence of our nature. The agency~
which we have to. examine, is a1most identified with
man, the ever.changeful- the infinitely varied. No
two constitutions are a1ike, and the nervous system
exhibits a separate character in every separate per-
son. If, then, we consider that the action of medical
remedies, or of material substances, even though they
may not directly affect the economy of the nerves, is
greatly modified by the temperament of the indi-
vidual to whom they are applied, so that certain
idiosyncrasies will convert a means of cure or a whole-
some nutriment into a poison; above all, if we re-
Bect on the varied peculiarities of the senses ofvarious
men, causing that which is a pleasing odour to one to
become an overpowering torture to another (as in
the case of the Roman women, who swoon at flowers
and perfumes), and that which is discord to certain
ears to sound as harmony to those which are differ-
ently constituted: thus reasoning, we must perceiv:e
that an influence, which should act immediately and
genera1ly on t.be nervous system, would, of necessity,
exhibit somewhat of a distinctive_character in every
SE'parate case.
It is, above all, of importance to remember that
the variability of the recipients does by no means
prove the agent itself variable. How would you
that the effects, even though coming from a single
and permanent cause, should be similar, seeing that
the subjects who manifest them are diverse? Does
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 435
not the air produce different sounds from different
instruments of music, though it be a single known
and permanent agent?
Even should a man be altogether insusceptible of
the mesmeric influence, he has surely no just cause
for disavowing its reality. Is he no4 perhaps, insen-
sible to the operation of many other powers by which
a uumber of his fellow-beings are invariably affected?
May it not be argued that mortal temperaments-
from the phlegmatic to the sanguine -differ as
essentially as water and mercury, and that as little
should we expect men of opposite constitutions to be
similarly affected by mesmerism, as that the above-
named substances should freeze at the same degree of
temperature ? We should also remember that he,
who is at present insensible to the force, may, at
some future time, obtain a personal proof of its
efficacy. We are not always in the same frame, nor
always capable of being affected by the same causes.
An exposure to cold, which we brave with impunity
to-day, may be our death to-morrow, and the dose of
laudanum, or of mercury, which, when we sufrer, is
but a blessed relief from pain, may, at another time,
be to us deleterious or even fatal. That these ob-
servations hold good as respects mesmerism has been
proved in the recorded case of M. Itard, one of the
members of the French Academy of Medicine, who,
in 1826, experienced no effect from mesmeric treat-
ment, but in the year following was relieved by it
from headach and chronic rheumatism; and is it
always so certain that they, who will not own even to
u 2
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
themselves that they are affected by an inft~ence they ·
despise, are in truth so proof against it? One thing
at least I know. Aware by experience of the ex-·
ternal indications of mesmeric affection, I have been
able to detect them in some who professed to feel
nothing unusual under the mesmeric processes. It
may also be suspected that they, who, like a certain
friend of mine, commemorated in these pages, en-
deavour to solve a problem, during mesmerisation,
do in fact experience something of the agency to
which they oppose such stout methods of resistance.
Let us but grant to mesmerism that licence which
we concede to every agent upon an examination of
which we desire to enter.
In all physical sciences, which are based on expe-.
riment and observation, it must be granted that the
most important phenomena depend for their repro-
duction on the co-presence of a number of condi-
tions, difficult to be obtained separately, harder still
to be assembled and concentrated in one general re-
sult. If this be true as regards physical science, it
still more forcibly applies to a science confessedly
mental as well as physical. In mesmerism we have a
task incomparably more difficult than to resolve the
light into its definite and primal elements, to study
the formation of a crystal, or to superintend the ac-
tion of a voltaic battery ; we are called upon to dis-
sect the mind with all its delicate and fleeting hues,
and to unfold the caprices and the varieties of the
human constitution.
Under these circumstances, when a mesmeric phe-.
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.· 437
nomenon has been:observed, how many causes, impos..
sible in the shifting train of casualties to be summoned
up at will, must be reunited before it -can recur!
The instrument with which we have to deal is too de-
licate to be calculated upon as one would calculate
on mathematical certainties. The powers which we
have to investigate are amongst the most occult in
nature, to be traced only by a few of their scattered,
·but most extraordinary effects. · Add to this that
.observation respecting the influence in question is yet
in its infancy ; the relation between its forces, whether
negative or positive, is yet a mystery; its statics have
not yet been ascertained; but yet, and in spite of all
these drawbacks (and this is much to say), the reader
may gather from former portions of this work that the
irregularity of mesmerism is to be understood with a
limitation. It is of degree rather than kind. The
diversity consists in the propot·tion wherein the agent
affects various persons, - in the extent of the scale;
and the fineness of the gradations, as they ascend
from effects which are almost imperceptible to pheno-
mena which exhibit the full mesmeric force. The
friends of mesmerism, perhaps, need only claim for it
the same experimental patience that is required in
examining the properties of light, where a cloud that
passes over the solar rays may prevent those beautiful
appearances, which are dependent·upon their polaris-
ation, from captivating the gazer's eye.
These views of the action of the mesmeric medium
are not, be it remembered, presented as complete,
hut rather as such as are fqrced upon. us by the
u3
438 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
recency ofthe discovery, and the consequently impel"-
fect state of observation respecting it. I have not for-
gotten that the great agencies of nature stand in a
two-fold relation to man, namely, physical and phy-
sico-mathematical, and are therefore capable of being.
considered in a two-fold point ofview; that is, either
as they affect aU men alike, mechanically, or each
man in a different manner, constitutionally. But I
contend that the one effect is not less real than the
other, and perhaps that which presents the moat va-
riety is not the least interesting to be considered,
though it is with the certain and the steadfast that
science is chiefly occupied. If, before the analysis of
the atmosphere had been complete, and its laws of
density or temperature established, a man had as-
serted, because of its various effects on the various
constitutions of men, that there was no atmosphere,
how plainly ridiculous would have been the induc-
tion !-or, ifa pseudo-philosopher, in a sort of fool-
ish rage and spite against himself, were known
formerly to have renounced as flat, stale, and unpro-
fitable, the study of the constitutional effects of the
atmosphere upon his fellow-beings, because he could
not reduce them to mechanical laws, how manifestly
erring and absurd would his conduct now appear to
us.
Experience of the past should teach us not to de-
spair of seeing the statics and dynamics of the mes-
meric force plainly laid down. Who, in the early
periods of science, would have ventured to predict the
invention of a balance, whereby the magnetic actiOD
THE MESMERIC MEOIUJI. 43t
could be reduced to weight and measure ? Look at
the history ofmagnetieal discoveries ! What patience
-whaterroneous guesses- what feeble dawnings of
truth - what lessons of hope are there ! The know-
ledge of magnetical effects is as old, at least, as the
era of Homer, by whom they are distinctly referred
to; but it is less than a century ago • that Michell
established the true law of magnetic action : and mes-
merism has not yet completed its seventieth year,-
a measure ofexistence which the Psalmist has assigned
as the period of one man's life ! Is this a sufficient
space for the development of a subject the most fer-
tile and the most vast, because the most intimately
connected with man?
This, at least, even in the present state of mesmeric
science, may be affirmed, that, considered as a force,
the agency betrays no slight indications of its affinity
with mechanical powers, and that certain circum-
stances regarding it bring to us nearly a full con•
viction that its effects are dependent on a certaill
invariable proportion between the mesmeric force of
the individual who dispenses, and that of him who
submits to receive the influence. What that propor-
tion is, once ascertained (and how can this be but by
repeated observation? ), would reduce mesmerism to
a law, and to a certainty. Its mental and remedial
effects will indeed necessarily always continue to be
varied according to the character and temperament
of its patients, but its purely physical agency might
• In 1750.
u4
4 40 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
be brought within conditions, perhaps narrower and
more simple than we can now conceive. Supposing
(as some now deE>m) the vital action to be electric,
that which is called a man's nervous force, or consti-
tution, would depend on the poSSE'ssion of a certain
original measure of the electric fluid. Were this
found to be the case (my idea may raise a smile),
a neurometer, or instrument to ascertain the ner-
vous power of a person, might give to mesmerism
the precision which science requires. Who would
have thought, at one time, a measure of magnetism
possible?
My suggE>Stion may be deemed absurd ; but this
will not alter the facts of mesmerism. At present we
are only acquainted with the general result, and not
with the elements that compose it ; but this is no
more a proof that it is not composed of elE>ments,
than the ancient ignorance what water was could have
demonstrated that it was not composed of two airs in
certain proportions.
I will state two or three casE'S out of the many that
have inclined me to think that mesmerism is a ques-
tion of proportional force. A friend of mine at Cam-
bridge was su11ceptible of being influenced by myself,
but transiently and imperfectly, while, on the other
hand, he was at once and invariably brought into thE'
mesmeric state by being subjected to the action of a
young fellow-student, who (as to the rest) used no
art in his manipulations, and merely imitated rudely
my proceedings and gestures. Again : the brother of
a celebrated sculptor at Rome was always mesmerised
\
THE MESMERIC· MEDIUM.: 44I.
by me in a few minutes without difficulty, but to
other influence he was by no means so susceptible,
On one occasion, before a large party a~ Rome, I
instructed a distinguished artist in the necessary
movements, and set him down to mesmerise the gen-
tleman alluded to, precisely as I was accustomed to
do. No result, however, at the end of half an hour
had ensued. I then took the patient's hands myself,
and in a very few minutes he was thrown into a deep
mesmeric slumber. Other persons tried the same
experiment with a similar result.
E. A., whom I could mesmerise in a few seconds,
was operated upon for an hour by another person,
who, in other ca8es, had displayed immense mesmeric
power, without experiencing any effect whatever.
An interesting anecdote, related to me by Dr.
Chapelain of Paris, corroborates the above.
An English lady, whom he was treating mes-
merically, continued, after many days, insensible to
his influence. Her son, a child ofabout ten years of
age, who was present while the doctor mesmerised;
exclaimed one day, "I think I could make mamma
sleep. Will you let me try ?" Dr. Chapelain, curious
to see what the little fellow would do, laughingly con-
sented. He was surprised at the gravity and skill
with whieh the boy imitated all the processes which
he himself had employed, but still more surprised to
behold that in ten minutes the patient was thrown
into a mesmeric slumber.
From facts like these we cannot but conclude that
it is not the strength of the mesmeriser, but the pro-
u 5
442 THE M'&BMERIC MEDIUM.
portion between the respective strengths of mes-
meriser and patient, which ensures success, and that
the less or more on either side would indifFerently
prevent a perfect result. To ascertain these rela-
tions seems to me to be the great end and object of
rt'Search as regards mesmerism at present. In this
labour, let us not be less active and enduring than
men of science have shown themselves for many a
meaner object. What can he so ungrateful a toil as
that of endeavouring to reduce the weather to a l•w,
and the variations of atmospheric temperature to a
certainty ? Yet this has been attempted, and is
attempted still. And how? by the accumulation of
observations, which, since art is long and life is
short, must rather serve as a valuable bequest to
posterity than as a profit to ourselves. All that we
have yet ascertained on this point, and that is much,
is, that the sum of each year's weather and tem-
perature is very nearly alike; that, as Whewell
expresses it, " there is an invariable result of the
most variable quantities." A similar discovery re-
apecting the apparently lawless agency of mesmerism
will, I am certain, reward the perseverance of those
who continue to observe its phenomena with honesty
and patience.
Having shown that the mesmeric agency may truly
he ranked amongst physical influences, and that it
is as real an action of matter as any other which is
made known to us by visible effects, I proceed to
&tate auch additional particulars respecting the agency
THE MESMERIC M:£biUM. 443
as I have ascertained by careful and cautious ex-
periment.
That which I have now unequivocally to affirm of
the mesmeric medium is, that it is primarily set in
motion by the human mind.
I am aware that, in asserting this, I am com-
mitting Use maje&ti against the French goddess of
reason, who has banished the mind altogether out of
her dominions; but for justification I must appeal to
a higher sovereign, Truth, namely, under whose regis
I would, if possible, take refuge from the storms
which are probably brewing against me. " What !"
it will be said, " do you render your mesmeric
agency dependent on the shifting human mind, on
the variable human will, and yet claim for it the
character and constancy of a physical influence ?
What power over physics have the mind and will ?
When was thought ever known to set matter in
motion?" These questions I dare not answer, fal-
lacious though they be, on my own authority. I am
a mesmeriser, and my reasoning will be suspected.
Letme, then,appeal to the great intellect, which long
ago and unanswerably solved the inquiry, " Whence
we derive our ideas of power?" From Locke's
splendid chapter on this subject I select as much as
is necessary for my purpose.
" Bodies, by our senses, do not afford us so clear
and distinct an idea of active power as we have from
reflection ofthe operation of our minds; for all power
relating to action, and there being but two sorts of
action, whereof we have any idea, viz. thinking and
u 6
444: THE .MESMERIC .MEDIUM.
motion, let us consider whence we have the clearest
ideas of the powers which produce these actions : -
I. Of thinking. Body affords us no idea at at all ;
it is only from reflection that we have that. 2. Neither
havewe from body any ideaofthe beginningofmotion.
A body at rest affords us no idea of any active power
to move, and when it is set in motion itself, that motion
is rather a passion than an action in it ; for when the
ball obeys the stroke of a billiard stick, it is not any
action of the ball, but bare passion ; also when,
impulse, it sets another ball in motion that lay in i~
way, it only communicates the motion it had received
from another, and loses in itself so much as the
other received, which gives us but a very obscure
..idea of an active power of moving in body, whilst we
observe it only to tra1lsfer, but not produce any
motion; for it is but a very obscure idea of power
which reaches not the production of the action, but
the continuation of the passion.
" The idea of the beginning ofmotion we have only ·
from reflection on what what passes in ourselves, where .I
we find, by experience, that barely by willing it,
barely by a thought of the mind, we can move the
pat·ts of our bodies, which were before at rest. • •
" This, at least, I think evident, that we find in our-
selves a power to begin or forbear, continue or end
several actions ofour minds, atld motions of our body,
barely by a thought, or preference ofthe mind, order-
ing, or, as it were, commanding the doing, or not
doing such or such a particular action :-this power,
which the mind has thus to order the consideration
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
of any idea, or the forbearing to consider it, or to
prefer the motion of any part of the body to its rest,
and vice versa in any particular instance, is that which
we call the will" ·
. Ifwe allow (and how can we deny?) the truth of
the above reflections, we must perceive that not
merely our very idea of motion is derived from the
mind's operations, but 'that reasoning, as alone we
can reason, from what we know, we must conclude
that all motion whatever originates with mind and
with mind alone. And why start at the notion that the
mind, in mesmerism, is the acting force ? Do we
know any other ? Mind and motion, as cause and
consequence, are indissolubly connected, the only
real antecedent and consequent that can be shown in
perfect juxtaposition, and demonstrated to us truly
by our self-consciousness. Besides, shall we, who
may be said to create to ourselves all we see by
thought, doubt of the power of the human mind?
One should think that, above all persons, the man of
science, who bases all mechanics on the principle of
the inertia ofmatter, and yet cannot but admit " that
there is probably no portion of inorganic matter that
is not in a state ofrelative motion," must be aware of
the necessity of quite another than a matedal force to
produce all this action in naturally quiescent bodies.
Even Descartes (as Pascal says) was forced to bring
in God to set the world in motion, though, had it
been feasible, he would have shoved him altogethef
out of his philosophy. The principle once admitted
that motion originates with mind, it is plain that such
«6 THE MEBM~IliC MEDIUM.
motions as occur in the mesmeric medium, and are
thence transferred to a human body, are primarily
produced by mind ;-in other words, by will.
Why should we be startled at the expression? Is
the will a nullity? Has it no force, no prerogatives?
Let us consider what every day and every hour our
will effects, merely in controllingand wielding matter.
How accurately we move tht! complicated mechanism
of our limbs, through the iD~Pulsions of our volition !
The least disobedience or want of pliability on their
part would mar the slightest of our bodily actions.
Let us, with Dr. Maculloch, take the cases of archery
and slinging. " It requires little reflection to see
that, under the complicated action ofso many muscles,
the problem to be solved is so intricate that11o mathe-
matician could ever hope to assign what was neces-
sary to produce a result, which it as certainly as it is
rapidly affected, without any calculation. • •
''But the precision ofmuscularactionbecomesmuch
more wonderful when we refer to the ca~ and ask
in what manner a definite quantity of cohesive at-
traction and also various definite and unequal quan-
tities in succession can be transmittedthrough a nerve,
while this too is done by an act of the will, yet of
will merely knowing what it desires, not what it per-
forms."•
Our knowledge that the will acts, yet our ignorance
how it acts, on matter, should prepare us to receive,
without a dogmatic denial at least, proofs ofan exten-
• Dr. Maculloch, on the Attributes of God.
\
THE :&IESMERIC MEDIUM. 447
sion in its capacities and its sphere. If, in some
mysterious way, I actuate another, it is scarcely more
wonderful than that I actuate myself. It is true that
the latter comes within the range of my every day
experience; but can I any more comprehend it?
How great a force the will either has, or wields,
may be almost measured ofF to our senses in a very
simple but striking manner.
Let two covered vessels precisely alike, the one
empty, the other full of some heavy substance, such
as leaden bullets, be placed before a person. Let
him first lift the full vessel, and let him then be told
to raiiJe the empty one, with an understanding that
it is of equal weight with the first. The person do-
ing this will put into the action so much unnecessary
force, from the expectation of being about to lift a
great weight, that his baffled vigour will, in its re-
action, cause quite a painful concussion in the mus-
cles of the arm. Now, could that force, which, as it
were, returns upon himself, be directed outwards, it
is plain that it might produce a very powerful and
peculiar action in the media wherewith we are sur•
rounded. And wherefore not directed outwards?
This at least we know, that the will is really the
primary agent which enables us to move all bodies
foreign to and apart from ourselves. In these cases,
indeed, it acts through intermediate agencies which
are visible to us. But there is nothing whatever to
render it impossible that the mind should act some-
times by unseen, yet even more potent intermediaries
than the accustomed. After all, what astonishes us
448 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
in mesmerism is not that the mind is shown capable
ofproducing motion, but that it is exhibited produc-
ing motion in a different way, as we conceive, from
that with which our experience is familiar. That
the mind should originate a series ofmotions ofwhich
we cannot behold certain of the intervening links (I
speak of cases in which the mesmeriser influences his
patient from a distance),-this is the true ground of
our wonder and incredulity. Yet, in fact, the very
same thing occurs in our commonest experience.
When I move one ofmy fingers, I am only acquainted
with the first fact and the last in a sequence of events,
the intermediate circumstances of which are hidden
from my knowledge, and which are, probably, very
numerous. Some of the hidden links in the series I
know from reason. From the anatomist I learn, that
my mind, in the first instance, moves a portion of my
brain (for certain injuries to the brain render volun-
tary motion impossible); that this again communicates
an impulse to a nerve- (for cut the nerve and the
impulse reaches not the muscle) that then again a
muscle is moved, and finally the finger. The sim.,
plest voluntarily motion, then, is but an impulse,
originating with mind in the first place, and thence
transferred through a series of atoms. There is a
sequence of changes, nothing more ; some of which
are known to liS- others not. There is (to use the
language of Locke) but one real action, yet many
passions, or communicated motions. And what is
mesmerism but this? The same definition suits mo-
tion whether produced mesmerically, or normally.
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM, 449
The same circumstances attend both. Again, even
should we pursue motion. beyond the limits of our
own bodies, we shall find that there are invisible links
in all the impulsions which we communicate to mat-
ter. The philosopher knows that we are not in real
contact with anything which we appear to touch-
that there is always something invisible between us
and the object that we handle.
Again: do I not, by every motion of my body,
change the relative position of the atoms of the media
.that surround me? Do I not displace the air, cause
various motion in the waves of light, and influence
nature to a distance around me, which it were vain
to attempt to calculate ? The wonder, then, seems
to be - not that the mind should produce changes
in surrounding objects- but that, being itself " the
fountain-head of motion," it should not move matter
more forcibly and generally. Doubtless it would be
so, had not the all-wise Ruler of creation confined the
human mind within necessary limits. Could the will
sway the material as it does the immaterial world,
what bounds would there be to the tyrant's caprice,
to the conqueror's ambition ? Mountains would
crumble as a dream, and oceans be dried up at our
bidding. A Napoleon would " make a sop of all the
solid globe." These ideas are not so extravagant as
his who doubts of the power of the human will. By
that alone we do great things; by that alone we con-
quer kingdoms, or ourselves; by that alone we achieve
the hourly miracle of moving matter, united with, or
extraneous to ourselves. Is the will, then, a nullity,
450 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
whose influence is to be excluded from our consider-
ation when we treat on any subject which nearly
concerns man ?
Let us now proceed, perhaps with fewer prejudices,
to consider the proofs before us, that in mesmerism it
is the mind which originates the impulse. It is true
that, in general cases, the mesmeriser employs visible
and physical means to produce his efFects. He is
either placed in contact with the person he desires to
influence, or he makes use of certain looks and g~
tares, which, to those who regard only the superficial
and the visible, may appear to be the moving causes
of the impression produced on the other person. But
let us remember that even the most careless of our
looks and gestures do really 8pring from mind and
will, acting, indeed, with various degrees of force,
yet still always with a certain fot·ce. Now even aa
respects these outward manifestations of an acting
mind, I have invariably found that mesmeric effects
were always in exact proportion to the degree of
voluntary effort I put into the performance. Tbi_
s
was more especially the case as regarded the action
of the eye. When my patient's eyes were closed, and
he therefore had no means of knowing what I was
about, I have still found that, the more of active gazing
I employed, the greater was the effect produced. The
necessity ofgiving an undivided attention to my work
. was, of course, most palpable in the first few times of
mesmerising a person ; for it is evident that the more
the patient's sensibility was developed under succes--
.sive mesmerisation, the less force he would require
THE MESMERIC MEDIUX. .451
to be used in influencing him; consequently the less
mental effort would be required on my part. Thia
is a remark to which it is of importance to attend, for
some persons in very advanced stages of mesmeric
sensibility will be affected by gestures in which the
mind of the performer would seem to have little share;
that it can have no share therein I trust I have de-
monstrated to be impossible.
Yet even when acting on a patient so accustomed
to my influence as was E. A., I found that I by no
means mesmerised him so well as usual on days when
my mind was preoccupied with other matters. He
was himself peculiarly sensitive to any remission of
my attention towards him, and would frequently say
to me (and always with justice)," You are not think~
ing of me just now.'' The poor blind German boy
used similarly, and with equal correctness, to complain
of my ceasing to influence him properly; and this,
from the absence of one of his senses, and that the
most observant, is testimony the more remarkable
and uncorrupted.
A very certain proof that, when attention remits,
there is a remission also of mesmeric power, was
afforded me also in the course of some experiments,
which Professor Agassiz, of Neufcbatel, permitted me
to try upon himself. In these I was of course pecu~
liarly desirous of concentrating all my attell,tion upon
the effects to be produced on a man of learning and
of science. The very circumstances of the case com-
pelled me to exert my mind in an undivided manner.
But one evening tl1e non-arrival of expected letters
452 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
from home forced me into another train of feeling,
and, during the mesmeric processes, I could not pre-
vent my thoughts from occasionally straying from the
scene before me into anxious surmises as to the cause I
of the silence of my friends. My patient, although
he had his eyes closed, and his limhs paralysed in the
torpor of the mesmeric slumber, was not slow to per-
ceive the wanderings of my attention, and, although
I was at the time engaged in the mesmeric processes,
to all outward appearance as actively as usual, called
out to me constantly and coincidently with the remis.
sion of my thoughts-" You influence me no longer~
You are not exerting yourself."
On another occasion 1 was convinced in a manner
the most odd, and even comic, how great is the in-
fluence of the will in directing the impulses of the
mesmeric medium. I should hesitate about relating
the story were it not that, in a new science, every
thing has its importance, and the least studied effects
are often the most valuable and sure. Travelling in
a stage coach in England, with three other inside
passengers (one of them a Cambridge friend, to
whom I can appeal for the truth of the relation), I
fell into the following train of thought: " If mes-
meric effects occur only through certain contact and
gestures, wby is it that men never mesmerise each
other unawares? At a public meeting, in a church,
in a theatre, in all places where human beings con-
gregate, there is plenty of the mesmeric influence
going about unappropriated. Why is it that this
does not take effect, and that no one should sleep in
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 453
such circumstances, unless the orators are prosy, and
the play stupid enough to act as a soporific? Surely
this is because the influence requires a will to con-
centrate it and to give it a particular direction, before
it can individually operate. Now, here am I, in a
most favourable position for mesmerising the person
opposite to me. His knees and feet are in contact
with mine- in the true mesmeric position. At pre-
.sent he does not look sleepy in the least·t and up to
the present moment the idea of mesmerising him
has not entered my head. Let me see if this want of
the idea is the true cause why I have not hitherto
affected him. If, by a silent exertion of my will, I
can now, from wide awake, bring him fast asleep in a
very short period, the relation between cause andeffect
will be, I think, pretty well established." " Sur ces
entrefaites," as the French say, I began mentally to
exert my volition, and to fix my attention on my un-
conscious patient. From time to time I looked at
him mesmerically, but watched my opportunity,
when his own attention, being turned elsewhere, per-
mitted me to stare at him, without the fear of being
challenged. In about ten minutes the charm began
to operate. My victim's eyes kept reverting uncon-
sciously, as it were, to my face, which, however, I
turned away whenever I saw him looking at me, and
at length he began to shut them with that slow and
peculiar motion which is indicative of mesmerisation.
They did not, however, close, but remained more
than ·half open, becoming perfectly fixed, and, as it
were, dead, displaying the whites in a manner which
454 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
by no means contributed to embellish a physiognomy
naturally none of the handsomest.
Behold, then, my man asleep; so soundly, indeed,
that the coach stopped, and horses were changed
without his being in any way disturbed from bis
mesmeric nap. When we were again in motion I
began to be agitated by some strange doubts, whether
my will would be found as effectual to end, as it
had been to create, the spell which held the slum-
berer, who always remained in the same position as
at first, with his eyes more dead than ever. As I had
soon to quit the coach, I really feared that my
sleeper, unawakened, might follow me, attached by
mesmeric attraction, to my side. The question of
the will's supremacy was now to be tried to the
utmost. First, without any effort of volition directed
to the end of awakening may patient, I stirred about,
spoke loud, and let down the window next me with
a rattle; my fellow-passenger did not awake. I then,
coneentrating my will on the one idea of dissipating
the mesmeric influence, leant forward with some-
thing of that motion of my hands which, in usual
circumstances, accompanied the idea. Immediately
my patient began to stir, move his eyes, and rub
them, staring still rather wildly, and in a confused
manner muttering that he really thought he must
have been asleep.
I now proceed to relate some more serious ex-
periment'!, tried at Antwerp, on Anna M-, re-
lating to the influence of thought and will on the
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 455
mesmeric medium, and its power of communicating
impulses to a distance.
The patient just mentioned was, it will be re-
membered, in a state of mesmeric sensibility and
relation with myself, which successive mesmerisings
had carried to a very high pitch. Yet by my mere
bodily presence Anna M- was in no way affected.
Unless I mesmerised her with intention, no effect
was produced. Never had I led her to conceive it
possible that I could mesmerise her in any than the
usual way, that is, by contact and gestures. She had
never read any books on mesmerism. She had no
preconceived notions on the subject. All being thus
propitious to the essay of a pure experiment, I con-
certed with my family what was to be done on a
eertain evening, when Anna M- was coming to
drink tea with us. According to ourarrangements, I
pretended to leave the room, while Anna M- was
engaged in conversation with my wife on a sofa. near
the fire; but taking advantage of a large screen that
hid the door entirely from view, and which had
always stood in the same place- that is at the very
farther end of an apartment twenty-six feet in length
-I shut myself into the room instead of out of it. I
then tried to concentrate my thoughts on my sleep-
waker, and to mesmerise mentally. At first I found
this difficult, but at length I succeeded in bringing
myself into the same frame and action of mind which
usually accompanied my employment of outward
means, when mesmerising. Then, and not till then,
I suddenly heard Anna M- (breaking off in the
-
4:56 THE 1\IESMERIC MEDIUM.
very midst of an animated conversation) exclaim-
" Oh, where is he ? What is he doing? " Directly
after, the concerted signal, which was to inform me
that my patient slt>pt, was given; and, advancing
into the room, I saw Anna M- as completely
mesmerised as ever she had been by contact and
gestures. In the notes taken at the time, by one of
our party, of this transaction, I find, that, after this,
the patient's first words were, -
P.- " Why did you go? You only wanted to de-
ceive me."
M.- "Only to magnetise you from a distance."
P. - "Yes. You can magnetise me now from any
distance!'
Anxious to try a second experiment of the same
nature with the abovt>, yet aware that, if I took the
same means, the experiment could not be pure (since
the patient forewarned might, on my apparently
leaving the room, imagine me still in the apartment),
I agreed again on certain measures with my family,
which took effect as follows : -
After the interval of a few days, during which I
mesmerised Anna occasionally in the usual manner,
I, on her coming one evening to see us, was found
deeply absorbed over a volume of Wordsworth's
poems; which, after the first greetings were over, I
continued to read, while Anna was busily imparting
to her kind friend, my wife, all her little plans for
bettering the condition of her family- her hopes
and fears for the coming winter. While this went
on I was trying to withdraw my mind from the book,
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 457
on which my eyes, shaded by my hand, were fixed,
and to concentrate my thoughts on my patient. This,
however, was no easy task ; Wordsworth is not an
author to be quitted with indifference. At length,
by dint of repeated efforts, I acquired the proper
frame of mind for mesmerising ; and, coincidently
with my success, Anna, as before, suddenly broke off
in the midst of a sentence, and exclaimed " Oh, he's
magnetising me I" (we called the thing then by its
old name) -falling back at the same time on the
sofa in a profound mesmeric slumber.
The third trial that I made to mesmerise this pa-
tient from a distance was still more remarkable and
decisive.
One evening, when sitting with my family, the
idea occurred to me,- " Could I mesmerise Anna
M- there, as I then was, while she was in her own
house?" to which I knew she was just tben confined
. by slight indisposition. Acting on this thought, I
begged all the party present to note the hour (it was
exllctly nine o'clock), and to bear me witness that
then and there I attempted a mesmeric experiment.
This time I endeavoured to bring before my ima-
gination very vividly the person of my sleepwaker,
and even aided the concentration of my thoughts by
the usual mesmeric gestures ; I also, at the end of an
hour, said, " I will now awake Anna," and used ap-
propriate gestures. We now awaited with more
curiosity than confidence the result of this process.
The following morning Anna made her appear-
ance, just as we were at breakfast, exclaiming " Oh,
X
458 'l'HE MESMERIC MEDIUM. •
sir ! did you magnetise me last night ? About ·nine.
o'clock I fell asleep, and mother and sisters say they
could not wake me with all their shaking of ~ and
they were qui~ frightened ; but after an hour l woke
of myself; and I think from all this that my sleep
must have been magnetic. It also did me a great
deal of good, for I felt quite recovered from my oold
'-fter it. After a natural sleep I never feelao much
refreshed. When I sleep for an hour in magnetism,
it is as if I had rested a whole night." These were.
the words of Anna M-, noted down at the time
as accurately as possible.
Unless the reader will do me the honour to believe
that I tricked my family, and was in concert with a
poor honest-hearted girl to deceive every one, I know
not what he can say to statements such as the above.
They are- facts, to the accuracy of which more than
one person will pledge all the credit of their in-
tegrity.
To me, who think at least that I behold clearly
the principle of mesmerism, they appear not so won-
drous, as doubtless to those who have not yet thought
out the subject they will and must appear. Impulses
conveyed to a distance cease to be miracles the mo-
ment there is a communicating medium made visiblt>.
That newsshouldbe conveyed from Dover to York in a
few seconds mayseem a mighty marvel to the ignorant;
but to those who are aware of the nature of the tele-
graph, a mere common occurrence. Let us not be
so near the vulgar as to be astonished at effects from
causes t.o us invisible; let us not gape at the ascend..
THE MESMERIC MEDJ UM. 459
ing or descending deities, as if they really floated in
the air, only because our vision cannot detect the
strings and wires by which they are guided and sup-
ported. The mechanism once revealed to reason's
eye, everything appears easy and natural. But, if
we only rest in what we see, we must live in wonder
and perish in our ignorance.
The following coll8iderations may tend to reconcile
us to the phenomenon of thought giving tendency to
matter, and propagating its impulses to a distance.
·Mental action produces motion in the brain, for
the sensible fatigue in that organ, consequent upon
intense thinking, proves that during thought it has
been exercised in a real and physical manner. The
materialist even will confess this, and more energeti-
cally, for he will affirm that motions of the brain pro-
duce thought. Let it be so, if he will; that makes
no difference in our argument. Motion of the brain
is. still, and under all circumstances, allowed to be the
accompanimentof thought, either as its antecedent or
consequent. Can that motion be possibly insulated
amidst the connected mechanism of the universe,
where one thing hinges on another, and where the
touching of a single spring is but the commencement
ofa series ofactions ("wheel within wheel involved"),
which may reach to the throne of Omnipotence itself?
Can any one motion live to itself alone, die where it
was born, and be bounded by the substance in which
it has originated ?
Granting that, which few will, in the present day
be disposed to deny, that there is one pervading me-
x 2
460 THE MESMERIC MEDIU•• .
dium throughout nature, infinitely elastic ~nd 'impres-:
aionable, it follows, as a consequence, that our thoughts
must necessarily, in agitating the brain, agitate also
the great ocean in which animate and inanimate mat-
ter has its being, with which we are in partial rela-
tion, with which God is in infinite relation.
Let philosophers pursue their own views to their.
termination, and subscribe to the consequences of
their own theories, and I shall be content. He whd
adopts the undulatory hypothesis, and contends for
the existence of a pervading ether, is already more
than half way on his road to mesmerism.
These reflections may serve to introduce (mother
class of mesmeric phenomena, which appear miracu-
lous only when insulated and taken apart from the
proposition that Mind must in its every action impress
a certain motion on surrounding matter.
It has been said that persons in certain states,.
either mesmeric or akin to the mesmeric, can become
aware of the thoughts of others without the usual
communication of speech. Bertrand, who (be it re-
membered) wrote against mesmerism in the latet·
years of his life, relates an amusing story to this
effect, a story in which he professes his full belief, for
he knew the parties concerned in it : - A little girl
of about ten years of age fell into a singular state of
abnormal sensibility. In her fits of auto-mesmerism,
she alarmed her family by proclaiming aloud to them
all the subjects of their thoughts. She would say to
her sister, "You are now meditating whether you
should or should not go to such a place, to meet sucb
1
THE M'ES!IolERIC MEDIUM. 461
6 person ; I advise you to stay quietly at home; ,. or,
to her mother, "Do not ponder why papa stays out
so late; it will do you no good.,. ThE>Se revelations
were at times not a little awkward and mal-apropos,
and so the poor little girl was not thanked for her
discernment, but voted to be under the influence of a
deluding and wicked spirit. For the purpose ofex·
orcising this familiar, so much more malevolent than
that of Socrates, the young patient was committed to
the care ofa pious community of nuns, with directions
that much prayer and holy water should be spent
upon her ; but, in the convent, matters went on much
worse. The holy water threw the patient into con·
vulsions, and (still more horrible) whenever a metal
eross was laid on her breast, she threw the precious
ensign of redemption from her with symptoms of the
greatest aversion. The pious sisterhood, though not
aware of the fact that the touch of metal powerfully
influences persons in certain states ofsensibility, hap·
pened, however, to exchange the metal cross for one
of wood, which, having been blessed by the pope, was
supposed to be of peculiar efficacy; and, lo ! in proof
of that efficacy, the little girl allowed the relic to re-
main quietly on her breast. This was a most favour-
able omen ; but, alas l the evil spirit was not to be
thus tamed ! - the great, the terrible symptom of
diabolic agency broke out in fresh vigour ; for the
patient began to proclaim the thoughts of those
around her. When irritated by the kind butmistaken
officiousness of the nuns, she was especially formidable
in that way, so formidable, indeed, that at length she
X 3
462 THE MESMEltiC MEDIUM.
completely controlled and governed the saintly eom-
munity. " Sister Agatha," she would exclaim, "you
had better not bring that cross here, or I 'II tell why
it was you nailed your ear so close to the key-hole of
the abbess's parlour." " Sister Ursula, do not force
me to say any more paternosters, or all the world
ahs.ll know what you were thinking of in your ceU
last Tuesday.''
Now this phenomenon of thought-reading has beea
observed by me, to a certain extent, in some of my
mesmeric patients.
The first occasion of my remarking it was in con-
sequence of an accidental occurrence- for, in truth,
I have never sought for marvels in mesmerism ;. if
marvels I have to relate, they have preseRtetl them-
selves naturally to my notice. E. A., when in his
normal state, used sometimes to exhibit a trick on the
cards, which consists in a long and rather tedious
process of arranging a certain number of cards ac-
cording to the letters of certain words, and then, by
the correspondence of the lettere, discovering any two
cards which may have been chosen by another per-
son. I was curious to observe whether my sleep-
waker retained enough of his calculating and com-
bining powers in the mesmeric state to go througb
this trick as usual, and I therefore asked a lady, who
happened to be present one day when E. A. was
· mesmerised, to choose two cards from amongst the
little packets of pairs, which the sleepwaker had
already placed in proper order on the table. The
lady chose the cards by her eye only, in perfect
l
THB MESMERIC MEDIUM, "'63
silence and standing behind the slet'pwaker, so that
there was absolutely nothing of word or gesture to
guidt' him in his subsequent discovery. He bpgan to
gather up the cards as usual preparatory to com-
pleting the trick, when suddenly he threw them down
with an air of disgust, say~ng words to this effect :-o..
~' Why should I go through this farce? I know
already the two cards which the lady thought of.
They were so and so." He was 'perfectly right.
Another time, a little basket, brought in by my wife
during his slt"epwaking, was standing on a table near
him. He took it up and considt'red it (always with
his eyes shut), and said to my wife, "Ah, you are
thinking now ofmaking this a present to Mr. V. O.'s
little girl.'' This was quite true. Again: I asked
~he same sleepwaker in his state of mt'Smt'rism, if he
knew of any application which would strengtht'n his
eyes - then Wt'ak. " Yes," he said, " something of
~hich you have been thinking-a wash, for the pre-
scription of which you 'Wrote to a physician in Paris
not long ago for the use of a friend of yours.'' He
spoke correctly; and I declare tnost positively that
the sleepwaker had no mt'ans what~ver of knowing
the facts he stated, except through the medium of my
own thoughts.
Anna M- occasionally manifested phenomena
similar to the above, and (woman-like, perhaps) ac-
companied them by a far more delicate and accurate
perception of the state of my feelings, at such timt's
ss she was placed in mesmeric relation to myself.
Frequently she has surprised me by the manner in
x4
464 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM~
which she anticipated, on these occasions, my wishes
with rt'gard to any little experiment I desired to
make. " Come," she would say, "you are now wish-
ing that I should do a piece of needle-work.. I own
just now it is rather a trouble to me, but I will do it
notwithstanding."
In my notes relative to the same period I find the
.following fact mentioned. A musician, with whose
11ame or person Anna M- was not in the least
acquainted, was in the room during her sleepwaking
-February 16th, 1838. Not a word had been
spoken about music ; all present were engaged in
observing the sleepwaker, when suddenly she said to
me, " You know there is a gentleman here who sings
and plays very well. You were wishing a while ago
to ask him to sit down to the piano. You must ask
him now, and, when he is playing, lay one of your
hands on his shoulder, and the other on mine, and I
shall hear the music too."
These phenomena, as I have said, were manifested,
notforced, and I had occasion to observe that, like all
other phenomena pt'rtaining to mind, they were best
exhibited when most spontaneously exhibited. At-
tempts to elicit· them in any other manner generally
failed. Once, standing near Anna M-- I ad-
dressed to her a sentence mentally, but she did not
comprehend it, though, that I wished to say some..
thing to her and that there was an action of my
mind, she manifested knowledge. Her words on this
occasion were remarkable. " Why do you speak so
low, sir? Speak louder, that I may hear you !•
i
lI
THE MESMERIC MEDIUMo 465
Now, be it remembered, I had not spoken at all, nor
given her to understand, in any way, that I was about
to address any thing to her.
One experiment, however, of this nature, was
almost invariably successful. If I mentally ran over
a tune in my head, Anna would immediately begin
to beat time, and sway her head about in the mea..
sure of the air. Anxious to have a correct witness
of the experiment, I agreed with a musician that at a
certain silent signal I should begin mentally to re-
peat an air, and, at another signal, change the air
and measure from slow to fast. I made the musician
acquainted with both the airs before-hand, in order
that he might accurately judge whether the sleep-o
waker kept to the time. The experiment answered
perfectly, both as )o beating time in the first place
with accuracy, and then as accurately changing the
measure.
I could relate a crowd of other circumstances of a
similar nature, and some perhaps even more remark-
able than the above; but I forbear: the above are
sufficient to illustrate the principle which I am en
deavouring to educe from facts. Should the prin-
ciple itself remain unacknowledged, I shall have
already drawn too largely on the faith of my reader.
Admit that thought communicates action to sur-
rounding media; admit that the mesmerised are sen-
sible to that action; and all that may seem wondrous
in my statements vanishes. It may be doubted,
indeed, whether the prejudice that exists with respect
to such phenomena may not have been whollr
X 5
466 THE MESMERIC IIEDIUH.
caused by their having too often been brought (or•
ward, not only unaccompanied by a proper explan-
ation and in disconnection with a sufficient cause, but
actual1y expressed in such a way as to deepen mys-
tery and to shock the scientific. The power which
aleepwakers, in certain states of sensibility, un-
doubted1y possess, of perceiving the thoughts of
others, has been called divination; a term whi~h
approximates the faculty in question to witchcraft
and all its vulgar associations. The sleepwaker does
not divine what passes in the minds of others; be
reads it there by means which are in perfect accord·
ance with the economy of our being. Let me endea-
vour to set this in the strongest, clearest light. Should
I even repeat myself, it will scarcely be a fault on a
subject like this, where indeed a certain iteration
~('ems necessary to familiarise our minds with themes
so new and of such grave importance.
As we are more acquainted with that corporeal
change in ourselves which accompanies sensation,
than with that other more hidden which accompanies
reflection, let us reason by analogy from the one we
best know to the one we know the least. Both are
mental operations, but the one, as we are sure from
facts, is connected with a series of material move-
ments which stand as actual signs and represent-
atives of itself. There is sensation, and there is also
the language of sensation ; in other words, nervous
motions, which are equivalent to a language. Now,
were we enablt.>d with equal ct'rtainty to say, when
•peaking of our intellectual operations, - " There ia
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. -467
·thought, and there is-the material sign of thought : "
could we affirm positively that, as every sensation bas
its peculiar nervous motion, so also every reflection
has its peculiar action of the brain, we should be
greatly helped to a comprehension of the point in
question. For it is plain that, could another person
be made aware, in any way, of the motions of my
brain during thought, and were he also properly
instructed in the significancy of those motions, he
might read from " the book and volume of my
brain" as readily as from any other collection of
symbols. For it is not the nature of the sign, when
once its meaning is fixed, that can make any dif-
ference or create any difficulty. The deafand dumb
converse as well by motions of their fingers as per-
sons in general by giving impulse to the air. Now
the presumption certainly is that every thought really
has its particular configuration in that texture of our
brain; for, 1st, we know that thought does indeed
move the brain generally, whence we might infer
particular motions for particular thoughts. ~dly, We
are sure that, in some instances, individual thoughts
do move the brain and thence certain nerves in an
individual manner; as, for instance, in cases where
a thought reproduces a corporeal phenomenon, ge-
nerally dependent on sensation, such as a distinct
visual image, or a certain feeling in the nerves of the
teeth.
From these phenomena it seems .that we only
draw a legitimate conclusion, when we say that every
thought moves the brain in its own appropriate
X 6
468 ·THB MESMERIC MEDIUM~
manner. Our personal ignorance of these speci6c
changes, though they occur in our own persons, is
no proof whatever that they do not take place. We
are perfectly unaware that sensation depends on a
corporeal sign ; yet a corporeal sign there is.
If it should be asked in what manner the sleep-
waker has come to be so well acquainted with the
signs and characters of thought, I might think it
perhaps a sufficient answer to reply, " The soul is
wise- yes, wiser than we know." There are more
intuitions, or (as Kant calls them) "cognitions a
priori" than we suppose. What if motions of the
ethereal medium were the native and universal lan-
guage of the mind? Or, to answer one question by
another, how, in sensation, have certain motions
come to be representative of certain external objects ?
I may be told, by experience ; but again, experience
itself must have a basis. Whatfirst taught the mind
the connection between the sign and the object?
Pl~inly an intuition ; for it is self-evident that we
cannot advance to new knowledge but by the aid of
previou!l knowledge. But where is this previous
knowledge to begin? It must begin some~here, or
we shall never know anything. When we grant
that we do know something, we also imply that this
our knowledge had a beginning, and this beginning
could only be a truth so clear as to be apprehended
at once without the aid of anterior knowledge; for,
to suppose a knowledge anterior to the beginning of
knowledge is manifestly absurd. Thus it appears
that we cannot but concede the existence of a first
THE MESMERIC KEDIUM. 469
knowledge, which came fA) us in a totaJJy difFerent
manner from any other, about which we could neither
have pondered nor reasoned ; a knowledge which,
luminous itself, required no light for its illustration;
a knowledge which is the guiding torch to aU other
knowledge whatever; in fine, an intuition or cog..
nition apriori.
This reasoning, applicable to all knowledge what..
ever, is more especially so to that peculiar know-
ledge which we call sensation, and which Locke has
satisfactorily proved to be the avenue at least to the
greater part of all we know, of all we are; the
occasion of development to the mind, the awakening
touch that sets in motion the germ ofall our faculties.
Locke, indeed, by his unfortunate and misconceived
comparison of the mind to a sheet of white paper,
has obscured his own beautiful system ; but to him
who studies the work on the "Human Understand..
ing" as a whole, it will be seen that the reflection of
Locke is nearly identical with the pure 'reason of
Kant, Locke allowing clearly that sensation is only
(to use his own words) "one of those ways whereby
the mind ~omes by its ideas."
. Now, let it be remembered that the mind in the
complete mesmeric state has been proved to be more
rational, more reflective, than in its normal condition;
consequently nearer to that which Wordsworth so
finely calls-
--"The tbuntain-ligbt of all our day,
The master-light of all our seeing."
Is it then wuodrdid thai ils finl-dndapeil iutu-
itiuos sboald be recaDed wilh aupa:iar ~ ..... c:Jeu-
- - to its pe'lftplioas?
This is the Tiew- of the •bject wlaida -.n:hes it
JIJO!Il deeply and entirely; bot, while I -.ialain that
the mind"~ knowledge of the meswtrie lligus m11Bt in
the fim iru:anee be intui1ire, I am abo euabJed to
modi(t' the ~tatemeot 10~ to render it IIIOft~
to our ordinary rie1n and oommoo ~xpaieoce. Like
our other iutuitiou5: tim puticu.1ar one is dneloped
manifestly thro~crb time and cireumstaiKe. The
phenomena of silent pelft"ption ana, let it be re-
membered, not only rare in ~, but slow to
oerur. As fiar as I bat"e obsen-ed, they only 1ab place
when a per.;on has been brongbt by degras iuto a
very enlted condition of sensibility, only when be
has learnt, and, as it were, perfected himaeU" in his
new mode of beiug, and in the language appertaining
to tltat mode of beiug.
In the chaill of our argument, then, there appears
to be no ]ink wanting. It is thus connected. Every
thought moves the brain in itsolli"D appropriate mauner.
A pen·ading medium being allowed to exist throngb-
oot nature (such as the electric), it follows as a coo-
sequence that every thought which moves the brain
imparts motion also to the ethereal medium.
:Mesmerised persons, being in a state of extreme
sensibility, are cognisant of the motions of finer media
than common.
The motions, created by the thoughts of other
persons, being transferred through the brain, and
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 471
through a certain medium, to the sensorium of a
mesmerised person, are to him intelligible signs of
thought - a language which, though new to him at
first, he, by a gradual process of association, givet
meaning to and learns to comprehend.
We may fnrther remark (in order to elucidate
certain other phenomena of mesmerism) that ames·
meric patient is in such relation with his mesmeriser
as to be peculiarly attentive to the workings of his
mind; with these he is evident1y far more connected
than with the intellectual operations ofany indifferent
individual. Hence the thoughts and feelings of the
mesmeriser are transferred to the patient more vividly,
and with a superior degree of accuracy, so as (if I
may ao express myself) to bring into sympathetio
vibration the very brain and nervous fibres of m~
meriser and patient. Facts coincide with this sup-
position. In various parts of this work it will be seen
that the mesmeric patient takes, pro tempore, the tone
of his mind from that of the mesmeriser's mind. It
may farther be asserted that he shares the knowledge
of the latter- a circumstance which accounts for
many apparent miracles rE>garding the information
of sleepwakers on subjects with which they were not
previously acquainted. When I first began to mes-
merise, I used to consult my sleepwakers on dark and
dubious points, with something of the blind faith ofa
novice in a new and wondrous science. Their an-
swers to such inquiries were calculated to bewilder
me by the pure influence of astonishment; for the
aimple had become theorista- the uneducated were
472 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
turned into philosophers. At length I was awakened
from my drE'am ofsomnambulic knowledge by finding
that my patient's idea shifted so visibly with my own,
and were so plainly the echo of my own thoughts,
that not to have perceived the source whence the)'
originated would have been•pertinacious blindness
indeed. I was but taking bact my own, and ~
ceiving coin issued from my own treasury. I par..
ticularly observed that what I had last read, or most
recently reflected on, was most vividly returned to
me by my sleepwaker. It was a vexatious discovery.
Would that I could present to my reader, as oracles,
the speculations of my patients on the ethereal me-
dium! Would that I could enlighten the world by
displaying, as authenticated by a preternatural mu...
mination, the harmony and mutual relationship of all
things ! But, alas ! I should only be repeating my
own feeble explorations of the regions of truth ; I
should but be retailing my own mortal and uninspired
surmises!
A few particular instances of the coincidence be-
tween my own thoughts and those of my sleepwakers
may interest the reader, and prove that which, as yet~
I have only generally advanced.
E. A. was perfectly ignorant of the mechanism o_
the eye, or of the fact that images on the retina are
:reversed representations of external objects. I had
been reading some works on this knotty subject, in
which needless (pains bad been taken to turn the
image the right way upward, when I questioned my
patient as to our mode of seeing. To my surprise,
f I
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM• 473
he entered immediately upon the~topic of the reversed
image on the retina, and-though confusedly, indeed
-repeated partly some mystical stuff which I bad
been reading in the " Seherin von Prevorst," (he did
not understand German,) upon that head -and
partly a scientific statement of the mere fact, which
latter be illustrated by drawing on paper the very
same mathematical figure which I had been con-
templatipg that morning, and which represented the
intersection of the rays at the focal point, which
causes the phenomenon in question.
The following coincidence was still more remark-.
able and perfect than the preceding.
In a work by M. Despines of Aix, in Provence, I
had been reading some speculations on the (supposed)
vital fluid. It was there conjecturP.d that some of
our maladies take their rise from the unequal distri-
bution of this fluid along the channels of the nerves.
I declare most positively that the sleepwaker had
never seen the work in question, which had just been
forwarded to me by Lord N-, from Geneva,
Nevertheless, when in the mesmeric state, he apropos
of something said respecting a person's illness, thu•
~xpressed himself: -
" 11 y a des maladies qu'on ne peut pas voir. Ce
sont les derangemens de la fluide nerveuse, qui est
accumult!e ou par ci, ou par Ia; et c'est cela qui fait
les maladies."
I copy the words exactly from notes taken at the
time they were uttered.
It must not, however, be supposed that this reflec;~
474 THE MESMERIC MEDIUJI.
tion of thought from the mesmeriser to the patient
destroys the individual character of the latter. The
knowledge returns to its originator, tinged always by
the medium from which it has rt!verted. Thus Anna
M- did not philosophise like E. A. Her specu-
lations were influenced by the synthetical habits of
woman's mind. In her there was more of the heart,
in the other more of the head. In every case I found
that sleepwakers do not retail things like mere par-
rots, but as thinking beings, themselves elevated to a
higher intellectual region than the ordinary. Besides,
there is always in the mesmeric state, a certain inde-
pendent power of thought, proper to the patient, the
degree of which varies with the natural independ-
ence of the character. Those ideas I was never con-
scious of in my own mind might be fairly attributed
to my sleepwakers as their own property. From
some of these I have taken hints, at least; especially
in all that regards the mesmeric state, of which mes-
meric individuals may be supposed to have the same
personal knowledge that we have of o~r normal
existence. Let us now pause to generalise the more
important of our facts in the spirit of the following
remark.
" The great object of philosophy is to ascertain the
simple or ultimate principles, into which all the phe-
nomena of nature may, by analysis, be resolved."
Striving after the philosophic unity recommended
by Dr. Chalmers, yet, keeping within the verge of
safe analogy, we may affirm that we have been consi-
dering- relative to mesmeric action- a medium
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 475
which, by its character and offices, is capable ofbeing
identified with that other medium treated of under
the head of " mesmeric sensation."
For that which is predicated of the one may ~
aaid equally of the other : -
Both have been shown capable of communicating
impulsions to the human system from a distance.
Both act through obstacles which are impedimenta
to grosser media.
Both bear an especial relation to the human mind.
In the one case, indeed, it appears that the medium
acts upon mind, while, in the other, it is manifest
that mind acts upon the medium ; but this distinction
will, I imagine, vanish, when it is remembered that
we have already proved sensations to be in reality
actions, and not mere passive performances of the
sentient principle, and that it is more probable that the
mind always consults actively its book of signs (as the
nervous system may be called), than that it is swayed,
in any case, inertly by the impulses of the external
world.
More briefly, sensation and reflection are, in truth,
both actions, though different actions, of one thinking
substance.
This being allowed, a pervading medium being
allowed, and it being manifest, as a consequence, that
this mere ethereal medium must respond to every ac·
tion of the mind and brain, it will be evident that th~
mind impresses motion on the medium by the very
act in which it seizes the meaning of the motions to
which it had been passive. Taking the proposition in a
-·
476 THE MESl\IERIC MEDIUM.
material point of view, it may be said that, in the un·
dulations of the nervous system, and the elastic media,
of which it is the centre, there must be reaction not
less than action. In either case, the motions of the
medium have been shown to be symbolical of some--
thing beyond themselves, and to compose a lan-
guage which the mind recognises and interprets.
Other points of resemblance between the sentient
and the mesmeric medium may be found.
It appeared probable that the former, from its
action from a distance, and the rapidity of its com-
munications, was, like the luminous ether, of an
elastic and vibratory nature. Now considerations or
a similar kind induce us to come to a similar conclu-
sion with respect to the mesmeric medium. We have
seen that physical effects have been produced by one
person on another from distances and through obsta-
cles which render the supposition of a material sub..
stance emanated from the body absurd. Anna M--
was by me brought into the mesmeric state when I
was divided from her by a screen, and by the whole
length of a large apartment ; and again when I was
in a house a quarter of a mile distant from that in
which she was sensible to my action. Facts like these
intimate not doubtfully that the mesmeric medium
has not a real transitive motion, but only a motion
of oscillation ; that the mesmeriser does not project a
means of communication to his patient, as one would
toss a su·ing to a person at a distance, but merely
agitates an already existing means of communication,
as one would impart vibration to a string already
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 477
stretched from one's own band to that of another per•
son.
The phenomena of sympathetic sensation between
mesmeriser and patient come in aid .of the above
conclusion. It has been shown that, in certain cases,
where a mesmeric relation is perfectly established be-
~ween two persons, the impressions of tact and savour
are transferred accurately from the nervous system of
one to that of the other. Thus Anna M--, when
any one gave pain to my shoulder, foot, &c. immedi-
ately began to rub the corresponding part of her own
person ; and she could also, from a real impression on
her nerves of taste, correctly state what I was eating
or drinking. Miss T- likewise, through nervous
motions in her own hand, became aware of the size
and form of objects which I was secretly handling.
These phenomena extremely resemble those of
•ympathetic vibration produced by the tremors of the
air. "It is thus" (says Mrs. Somerville, speaking
of the latter) "that sympathetic undulations are ex-
cited by a body vibrating near insulated tended
strings, capable of following its undulations, either by
vibrating entire, or by separating themselves into their
harmonic divisions. If two cords equally stretched,
of which one is twice or three times longer than the
other, be placed side by side, and if the shorter be
sounded, its vibrations will be communicated by the
air to the other, which will be thrown into such a
state of vibration, that it will be spontaneously divided
into segments equal in length to the shorter string.''
.Again, when sand is strewed on paper or parchmen•
478 THE .MESMERIC MEDIUM.
stretched over a large bell-shaped tumbler, with pro·
per precautions, " if a circular disc of glass be held
concentrically over this apparatus, with its plane
parallel to the surface ofthe paper, and set in vibration
by drawing a bow across its edge so as to make sand
on its surface take any of Chladni's figures, the sand
on the paper will assume the very same form, in con-
sequence of the vibrations of the disc being commu-
nicated to the paper by the air."
'' When a slow air is played on a flute near this .r
apparatus, each note calls up a particular form in the
sand, which the next note effaces to establish its own."
It is plain that this visible manifestation ofan invi-
sible agent might be made a language, and might
suggest to a person versed in its symbols the air
played on the flute so perfectly as to enable him to
write it down, even though he neither saw nor heard
the musical instrument from which it emanated, each
form in the sand indicating to him a particular note.
The analogy between this musical language and mes-
meric sensation is manifest. Jnst as the vibrations of
strings, or of vibrating plates are reproduced in other
strings, or visibly represented in the sand by the
agency of the intervening air, so are the nervous mo-
tions of the mesmeriser's system reproduced and faith-
fully represented in that of his patient by the agency
of the mesmeric medium. It is true that the aerial
vibrations are only manifested in tense substances,
and that the neryes are not, as generally supposed, in
a state of tension, and herein our parallel is not com-
plete; but then, in the latter case, if the undulating
THE .MESMERIC .MEDIUM. 47Q
body is not t~~" same, neither is the medium that ex-
cites the undulations the same. The true and im-
portant point of resemblance is this ; - the nerves
have a capacity to vibrate in unison with a certain
medium, just as tended strings have a capacity to
vibrate in correspondence with the air, and sympa-
thetic vibrations may undoubtedly be just as well
propagated from one system of nerves to another by
their own proper medium, as from one string to an~
other, or from the glass disc to paper, by the air.
This being allowed, is it any marvel that the trans-
ferred vibrations of the nerves should be an intelli~
gible language? Even as regards the mere tremors
of the air, we find that " by the vibrations of sand
on a drum-head, the besieged have discovered the
direction in which a countermine was working." If
personal interest can thus awaken the intellect to a
comprehension of mere external motions, how much
more keenly must personal feeling rouse the sentient
being, who is himself the subject of sympathetic ner-.
vous action, into a perception of every change in the
system with which he is in unison ? Besides, motions
of the nerves are more than a language; they are the
language of sensation; each of their changes is not
merely a sign of something occurring externally to a
man's self, but in his very frame and being: thus,
when a mesmerised patient has a nervous vibration
transmitted to him from another, he has also an actual
corporeal feeling, not only coincident with that vi-
bration, but also perfectly corresponding with the
original feeling in the other person. It is, however~
480 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
ofimportance to remark that to all these phenomena
the will of the mesmeriser bears more than a relation ;
- it has an evident share in their very existence.
The degree of attention that he bestows on producing
the phenomena of sympathetic sensation has a great
influence on the time and manner of their occurrence;
neither in this instance, nor in any other relating to
mesmerism, can we leave the will out of our calcu-
lations ; it is, indeed, the focus, where all the rays of
our information meet, - the centre without which
there would be no general relationship -no union
between our forces: this premised, we proceed to our
conclusion, that the relation between mesmeriser and
patient is established by an elastic medium is to be
presumed from the nearly simultaneous and corre-
spondent action of the nervous systems of both.
Here, as in former cases, admit a vibratory medium,
and that the mesmerised are sensible to that medium,
and everything is clear and satisfactory; without it
all is dark.
They who watch for my halting, and are on the
look out for discrepancies, may here remind me that
I have in other places advanced facts which are at
variance with the supposition of a vibratory medium
in mesmerism, and which rather tend to establish the
existence of a material emanation, of which the mes-
meriser's body is the original source. Contact, the
breath, motions of the hand near the patient, have-
been described as powerfully aiding the transmission
of the mesmeric influence. To this I reply, that·it
is now very generally admitted that heat is but a
THE MESMERif MEDIUM. 481
modification of the same agent which produces the
sensation of light,- in other words, no real entity;
but a peculiar action of matter. Thus to heat a body
is only to bring the atoms which compose that body
into a particular state of vibration. Yet in order to
effect this, in order to induce that peculiar action of
matter which we call heat, we employ certain means,
which, being themselves material, tend to invest the
agent with a material character, but which are in
reality only the occasions of bringing certain atoms
into a particular state.
It may well, then, be allowed by those at least
who adopt the undulatory theory, that the material
means employed in mesmerism, to charge a patient
with the mesmeric influence, are no proof whatever
of the material character of that influence, but are
simply methods whereby a medium may be thrown
into a particular state of action. That there is no
just reason why that action should not be vibratory
is also manifest.
Pursuing the analogy between heat and the mes--
meric agency, we know that, with rE'gard to ex..;
citing the former, the means are not only various,
but that they may be altered according to ·circum-
stances. Occasionally they may appear very com-
plex, as where chemistry employs its resourcE's to
develope heat by the union of two liquids or gases;
and occasionally nothing can be more simple, as
where, by mere friction, we produce heat. This
should warn us not to be surprised that mesmeric
results should accrue from· differE'nt processes, simple
y
4~ THE MESMERIC MEDIUM;
as well as complex; that at one time the mesmeriser
should employ all the intermediate aids of gesture,
look, and respiration; yet at another, with equal
success, influence his patient by the mere action of
his mind and brain.
I can assure my reader that I am as anxious to
give the subject a fair consideration as he himself
can possibly be; and I can suggest to myself objec-
tions to a vibratory cause in mesmerism, which, per-
haps, might not have occurred to his own mind.
Thus I found on one occasion, when I mesmerised a
person out of doors, that the wind had a manifest
power to disturb, and, as it were, bear away the
mesmeric influence. This, on a cunory view, ·goes
very near to investing it with a transitive character;
but, on a more accurate examination, does not in any
way affect our previous conclusions to the contrary.
We have only to remember that even the transmission
of light depends on the condition of the atmosphere,
and that wind disturbs that vibratory property of the
air, which produces sound, in a marked and acknow-
ledged manner. All then that is really proved, when
the wind is found to disturb the mesmeric influence,
is that wind has the power to affect the vibratory
properties of the medium.
Again : substances touched or breathed upon by
the mesmeriser will, when tested by such patients as
are extremely sensitive, be found to retain something
of a mesmeric virtue for a considerable period, as if
a material emanation clung around them, and at
length became dissipated··in the surrounding atmc>o
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 483
sphere. Nay, I must avow a circumstance, that,
more than any other, seems to shake my hypothesis
of undulations. I have mesmerised Anna M--,
by sending to her from a distance a note, which I
had previously carried about me for some time. But
what do these phenomena in reality prove? Merely
that the mesmeric medium, like other media, has the
power of imparting a change to the particles of the
substance on which it acts.
The following reflections will at once support my
hypothesis, and set my meaning, as I trust at least,
in a clearer light.
Whatever is corporeal is ponderable. When,
therefore, we pronounce that an agent is imponder-
able, we at once pronounce that it has no existence
(that is to say, virtually, and as far as our senses al'e
<loncerned), but in motion- that it is only an effect
or action of matter, and not an individual substance.
Such agents, then, as affect bodies without adding to
their weight, can only be conceived to act by intro-
ducing a change into the relative position of their
particles. Thus, when a grain of musk perfumes a
sheet of paper, without either losing in its own
weight, or imparting additional substance to the
paper, what can it prove more than that the action
of one thing can be imparted to another ? Or, when
what we call infection is conveyed from one peNOn
to another by wearing apparel, or by a k!tter; and
again, when fumigating the apparel or the letter
properly is found to restore those substances to,their
~rmer innoxious conditioii, is it not because, in the
y~
484· TBE MESMERIC MEDIUM• .
one case, the substances had acquired the property of
imparting a change to the atoms of the body with-
which they should come in contact; and, in the-
other, had this new mode of action abstracted from
them? This at least we know, that colour, which
appears to be a material body, and is transferable
from one body to another, is actually nothing more
than a chemical chan_!le in the position and arrange-.
ment of those atoms which by their varied manner.
ofcohesion produce what we call the different textures
of substances. Again : science has ascertained that
the mere action of the luminous medium can pro-
duce an internal change in the texture of crystals,
and can develope magnetic properties in iron ; while·
our own observation may assure us, by daily ex-
amples in the fading of vegetable colours, that light
alone can so alter the atoms of bodies, as to change
their capacities of absorption and reflection. The·
recent ·discovery, whereby a landscape is transfer-
red, in aU its natural hues, to paper prepared with
nitrate of silver, by the simple agency of light, speaks·
more strongly still to the same effect. Nor is it by
any means fatal to our cause, that the change which
mesmerism induces in bodies should be but tempo-'
rary. Electricity induces temporary alteration in
bodies ; the magnetic virtue in iron may be dimi-·
nished or reinforced by Jight, by heat, and other ex-
ternal agencies; while to or from such metals as:
only become magnetic by induction, the properties
of magnetism can be given or taken away at plea-
sure. Heat, also, can imphrt a temporary change to.
'tHE MESMERIC MEDIUM, 485
'the molecules of matter, giving them a new vibra-
·tion and impulse, which gradually cease! and leaves
the body they compose in its former condition. The
·analogy in this case to mesmeric action is particularly
striking, and would alone be sufficient, one might
·imagine, to rank this agency amongst the imponder-
.able ·media. h renders perfectly comprehensible
not only the transference of mesmerism· from the
mesmeriser to an inanimate substance, but the sub-
·sequent and further transmission of the action from
the inanimate 'Substance to a mesmeric patient.
It may further be conceived that this particulat
action of matter, when weakened by transference to a
mesmeric billet, for instance, can only affect such
~ frames as are predisposed to receive the influence,
just as the contagion of illness conveyed by letter
will act ·most rea~ily on persons predisposed to take
infection. In every case, where an agency so subtle
as that of mesmerism is to be appreciated in its minute
·gradations, there must exist a previous acquaintance
with its effects, and an acute degree of sensibility
.both natural and acquired. Beings possessing such
-qualifications are indeed rare, and, as detectors of
nature's finer influences, most interesting to the ob-
server. They alone, it is evident, can throw new
light on the action and properties of the mesmeric
·medium. If we only regarded them as instruments
·of extreme delicacy, we should value them as 'the
-chemist, his test and reagents, or as the student in
-electricity, his balance of;torsion. Dr. Elliotson, by
y 3
486 TBE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
means of two young females, who from their extreme
~ensibility may be called mesmerometers of the high-
est precision, has ascertained particulars which bid
fair to develope lhe laws of this remarkable agency.
Amongst other things he has discovered that mt'Smer-
.isable substances may be mesmerised by the eye
alone, without contact of any kind. This is of im-
portance; for, to what ean we refer such an effect, but
to a change in the atomic relations of the affected
substances, which change eannot but be brought
about by impulsion on some medium subsisting be-
tween the eye and the objects ? Thus, if some phe-
nomena seem to give a material character to mesmeric
agency, othe1'8 again more truly invest it with all the
finer attributes of that subtle, ethereal, and elastic
medium, which penades creation.
Whatever objections, then, may be urged against
the undulatory character of the mesmeric medium
are shown to be null ; while, on the other hand, we
shoUld be forced into absurdities, did we attribute to
it any other mode of action.
Thus proved to be undulatory, elastic, pervading,
in peculiar relation with the mind of man, it should
seem clearly to be identified with the medium spoken
of in sensation.
But of this we have a yet closer method of proof.
First. The phenomena of sensation proper to the
mesmeric patient proved to us originally the exist-
ence of a certain medium, which circumstances led ua
to suspect might form the groundwork in all sens-
ation whateYer, since it ac~ pervadingly, and by sim-
THE MESMEiliC MEDIUM. 487
ple impulsion on the nerves, which are the real agents
in sensation.
Secondly. The phenomena of sympathetic sensation;
originating with the mesmeriaer, and from him trans•
ferred to his patient, bring the sentient medium into
relation with the mesmeriser, and presumably identify
it with the mesmeric medium; especially as it is
found that the mesmeriser•s will and attention aid
the production of the phenomena. Besides, it is fair
to infer that all the relations between mesmeriser and
patient, being connected in one series, and bearing
one character, are brought about by one medium,
which we call mesmeric.
Thirdly. That such a medium is really the great
medium in all sensation we may again deduce from
this. It is found capable of transferring sensations
from the mesmeriser to the patient; we may there-
fore conclude that it is capable in general of produc-
ing sensation,- a task to which it seems peculiarly
adapted from its acting (as has been shown) with such
exquisite precision on the nerves.
The chain ofevidence seems thus complete.
In the first place we have a particular medium of
sensation indicated to us by the phenomena of mes-
meric perception ; in the second place that medium
is connected with the mesmeriser, by his capacity of
using it so as to produce sensation in his patient.
Finally, it is again reciprocally connected with sens-
ation in general by its capacity of acting on the
nerves of a human being, so as to produce sensation
of various kinds. ;.
y 4
•
THE MESMEIUC MEDittllrl:
Having thus assimilated the mesmeric medium td
such a medium or to such media (if there be many)
as form the groundwork in the external preparatives
of sensation, I would endeavour still further to ~
ciate it with other media, now generally considered
to be ofan undulatory nature and universallyallowed
to be proper objects of physical and certain experi-
ment.
Ifwe can succeed in this, we shall at once give to
our agency a claim on science ; connecting it with
calculation and with mechanical analysis.
It is plain that this can only be effected by detect•
ing and bringing to view similarities between its
action and the action of such other forces as are sub-
jects of the physico-mathematical sciences, -forces
which are now considered to be mere modifications
of the electric.
Already we have seen that, like heat, it can be
imparted by one body to another, and that, like hea~
it gradually leaves the body to which it is commu..
nicated.
Some interesting experiments by Dr. Elliotson
prove that, like light, it may be reflected from mirrors.
A celebrated sculptor at Rome assured me that he
had seen the experiment tried and verified on his own
brother by a nobleman, whose name it might be
thought an impertinence in me to mention.
These are striking analogies between the mesmeric
and other media ; -but to electricity - now con-
sidered as the great parent of them all - it bears a
yet greater resemblance.
'TliE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 489
Fi;st. We know that electricity is capable of all
that modification in its action which the nect'Ssities
of our ease demand. Sometimes its effects are sudden
and energetic; sometimes of indefinite and uninter-
·rupted continuance. It is "capable of moving with
various degrees of facility through the pores or even
the substance of matt-er;" • and is not impeded'in
its action " by ·the intervention of any substance
whatever, provided it be not itself in an electric
state."
This capacity of varied action and of pervading
influence has already been shown to characterise the
mesmeric medium.
Second/g. Electricity may be calied into activity
by heat. Here the resemblance between the electric
and the mesmeric medium is still more marked.
I have found that I could not successfully mesmer-
ise in a cold room, or when I was in a low state of
bodily temperature; while, on the other hand, a warm
atmosphere, and warmth in my own hand, have always
intensified and expedited the transmission of mes-
meric influenee from myselfto another. The first time
I ever saw a mesmeric experiment, the mesmeriser
made it an express condition that he should have a
warm room for his process. The experiment; as will
be remembered, was quickly and successfully ·per-
formed. Now, of electricity we know that it may be
called into activity by heat, and tha~ the heat of the
.
• These and the following characteristics of electricity are
taken from Mrs. Somerville's admirable work on the Connexiou
of the Phyaical Sciences.
y 5
490 TBE JIESJIEBIC MEDIUJI.
air is intimately "COnnected with its electrical con..
dition.
Thirdly. "Electricity readily escapesfrom a point;
and a pointed object receives it with most facility."
I have found, by experience, that the mesmerie
medium is most powerfully conducted by the tips of
the fingers, and that mesmeric actions, directed also
towards the tips of the patient's fingers, have a more
remarkable effect than when simply directed over the
surfaces of the body.
F01lrt1Jy. " Iceland spar is made electric by the
smallest pressure between the finger and thumb, and
retains it for a long time."
How analogous is this to the transference of mes-
merism to eertain metals by human contact, and to
the manner in which they slowly part with the com-
municated property I
Fifthly. Electricity may be transferred from one
body to another in the same manner as heat is com-
municated, and like it, too, the body loses by the
transmission.
This resembles the exhaustion and repair of mes-
meric force, of which I have, in another place, taken
notice.
It is true that, in the case of mesmerism, a human
body is the electric machine, another human body
the recipient of the force, and that neither are repre-
sented to be in a state of electrical insulation ;-but,
he it remembered, we are contending -not for the
· identity of the agency with the electric, but for
the propinquity. While we affirm that there are.
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 491
analogies too great to admit of a separate source, we
not ~e less contend that there are differences too
striking not to demonstrate a varied action. Their
powers not being identical, it is evident that the
laws of their retention and escape may vary, as do
those that regulate the transmission or accumulation
of the galvanic or magnetic forces. Thus, a body
may be in a state of mesmeric though not of electrical
insulation. Magnetic or electric agency seems to aid
the mesmeriser in influencing his patient. I found,
when mesmerising Professor Agassiz, that a magnet
held in my hand assisted me to raise his limbs by that
species of attraction which may be called mesmeric.
It is singular, likewise, but true, that, whenever
I took the magnet into my hand, however secretly,
he, having his eyes always shut, invariably cow
plained of a palpitation at the heart.
It has also been told me, by Dr. Elliotson, that a
lady, who is remarkably gifted with mesmeric forcE",
gains an additional share of that power when she
mesmerises standing on a glass stool and in a state of
positive electricity. This fact aproximates the two
agencies in a very obvious and striking manner.
A few additional remarks on the connection of the
human body with electricity may be pardoned.
Much needless pains have been expended to prove
that the force in question is an agent in our economy.
It cannot but be so. Its presence in our own frames
is only one of the consequences of its universal pre-
sence -now accorded by all philosophers.
Recent discoveries tend to prove that gravitation
y6
492 ·THE MESMERIC MEDIUM'.
itself is but a residual and comparatively feeble poto-
tion of the electric energy; and the power which
electricity displays in effecting chemical combination,
or separation, demonstrates that it really binds or
looses the atoms of which material bodies are com-
posed. To separate one drop of water from another,
it has been calculated that as much electric force
must be employed as would be called into activity
during an ordinary thunder~storm. How, then, can
the electric principle be absent from the frame of
man, which is itself but a collection of material par-
ticles ? Facts moreover prove that our bodies are
electric, and that the degree of electricity varies in
different individuals. The silk stocking drawn otf
hastily at night rustles with electricity; the hair when
rapidly combed, especially in frosty weather, will
crackle and emit sparks; and these phenomena are
more or less evident in different persons. All this is
true and undeniable. The fault has been in theorists
to assign specific offices to the electric agency in the
human frame, -offices which it may indeed fulfil,
but which the march of experiment has not yet suf-
fidently demonstrated that it does fulfil. The inquiry
bas not, as it seems to me, been conducted rightly.
We have sought, as I said before, to demonstrate the
presence of electricity in the human body; and that
was needless., The only sure way of demonstrating
that any agency in the human body is akin to the
electric is to identify the laws of action of the two
forces.
I think, then) at present, that the most striking fact
·THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 493
:of which I have heard relative to the identity of the
nervous and electric agencies is the discovery of Dea-
moulins, that the transmission of sensation and motion
is made by the surface of the spinal marrow, and not
by its central parts. This is exactly parallel to the
action of electricity, which is developed only and
transmitted along the surfaces of bodies. That nenes
really do conduct a matter similar at least to the
electric has been also proved by the fact, that a mag-
net held between the two sections of a recently di-
vided nerve was observed to be deflected as by an
electric currE'nt.
But the kind of electricity which is in the human
frame is probably a modification of the original prin-
ciple. In many particulars it bears more resemblance
to galvanism, and it is really ascertained by experi-
ments on dead animals that the nervous fibre has a
property of being galvanically affected, which (though
varying of course like other properties with the con-
dition of the substance in which it resides) may be
called inherent. Some most interesting experiment!.',
by Dr. Elliotson, in which patients, by a reinforce-
ment of mesmeric power, were shown capable of
"Swinging round large weights, impossible to be even
lifted by them in their ordinary condition, prove
again the intimate connection between the mesmeric
medium and the muscular force, which, as every one
knows, is dPpendent on Ule State of the nerves and
by them conducted from the brain. If personal evi•
dence may be allowed to have importance, I may add
that I am ofan electric temperament, so much so, that
494 TIIB MESMERIC MEDIUM.
long ago when a child I used to amaze and e'fen
alarm my young companions by combing my hair
before them in the dark and exhibiting to them the
electric coruscations. Of course, also, this phenome-
non takes place most remarkably in a dry, and, there-
fore, non-conducting atmosphere. Now between this
electrical endowment and whatever mesmeric proper-
ties I may possess there is a perfect relationship and
parallelism. Whatever state of the atmosphere tends
to carry off electricity from the body binders in so
far my capacity of mesmerising; and whatever state
of the atmosphere tends to accumulate and insulate
electricity in the body promotes gready the power
and facility with which I influence others mesmeri-
cally.
My feelings of bodily health also vary with the
plus or minus of electricity; and, perhaps, did persons
oftener attend to such things, a similar phenomenon
might not uncommonly be remarked. This at least
we may admit, that the welfare of the human body
depends on the equilibrium or proper distribution of
its forces, and that the electric is one of thet~e just as
much as heat or oxygen. The mesmeric force bas,
more than any other, been shown to be inherent in
man; and, taking all the above facts into consideration,
it is by no means a strained conclusion that it actually
is that particular modification of electricity which is
appropriate to the human constitution. When, then,
after having mesmerised a person, I have a peculiar
feeling of loss. of strength and general uneasiness,
which can by no means be traced to usual causes, I
THE HESMEltiC MEDIUM. 495
am compelled to consider this as a proof that I ha\'e
suffered by a temporary destruction of equilibrium
in that medium wherewith I have charged another
person,-that medium, namely, which we have agreed
to call mesmeric. That which greatly adds to the
presumption is the fact that there is gain in the patient
as there is loss in the mesmeriser. The tendency of
mesmeric influence to restore equilibrium to the bodily
forces is manifest. Under its beneficial action I have
seen headachs cured, fatigue dissipate<4 and trifling
bodily ailments removed in a short time. How much
it calms and equalises the circulation was shown in
the case of AJtna M-, whose pulse, agitated by
fever, was rendered even and natural after the occur-
rence of the mesmeric slumber. I have had occasion
also to remark that my own sense of exhaustion bore
a perceptible relation to that which I was called upon
to cure. In mesmerising the weak, even when using
very slight exertion, I have found myself more than
~ommonly fatigued. A young lady, whom I mesmer-
ised occasionally at Antwerp, and who was in delj...
cate health, remarked once to me, with that quick ·
perception of every thing relative to mesmerism
which persons under that influence display, - " l
am afraid it is a great fatigue to you to mesmerise
me, because I feel so much strengthened." It was
perfectly true. .
A medical man at Berne told me also that he
once undertook, by mesmerism, to treat a lady who
was suffering from periodical convulsive fits. By
lnesmerising her every day a little before the hour
496 THE M~SMERIC MEDIUM.
when the fits usually came on, he first deferred~
and finally altogether prevented, the recurring at-
tacks of the malady; but he himself suffered in a
singular manner. Sometimes, after mesmerising his
patient, he would faint away from the consequent
exhaustion.
From these facts, as it seems to me, there is every
reason to conclude that the principle of mesmeric
action is a disturbance of equilibrium, and that its
mechanical effects may be all explained by differ•
ences of positive and negative, of plus and minus, in
the mesmeriser and the patient.
Add to these features of coincidence between elec-
·tric and mesmeric agency, that both are subject to
actions and reactions, and that the one, like the other,
may be accumulated in bodies to a great extent with-
out producing any sensible change in their proper-
ties; and it is impossible but that the analogy between
the two media should appear remarkable.
Thus generalising, we have arrived at the point to
which all science seems tending,- namely, the de-
monstration of an ethereal medium, of which all other
agencies are but the effects. Should I have been
successful in proving the existence of a mesmeric
agency and its conDection with other actions of matter,
I trust that I may be allowed, not to have annulled,
but to have extended the sphere o~ former knowledge.
I have only exhibited that ether, which Newton ima-
gined and subsequent philosophers have proved to
exist, in a new point of view and engaged in new
offices. I have shown tha~ tha~ medium is the proper
TilE ME'SMElUC MEDIUM. 497
t>rgan ofthe mind, and the transmitter ofall sensation,
-that its motions are identical with thought, and are
not the accidental, but the permanent, language of
sentient beings. Let our contribution be 1·eceived.
The question, - Can mesmerism take its stand
amongst the sciences ? is even now decided. Even
now mesmerism is a science ofobservation. They who
have always rejected the undulatory theory may be
pardoned for rejecting it on the present occasion : but
they who allow it will not be excusable, should they
refuse to trace it in a new and most interesting depart•
ment of its agency ;-at least, they cannot but confess
it to be capable of the effects now ascribed to it.
What then wiJl be thought should the very supporters
uf the undulatory system desert us here- reject our
facts as absurd, and proscribe, in this particular in·
stance only, the hypothesis that would render them
-credible, nay, even necessary?
An elastic ether, modified by the nerves, and the
-conduction of which depends on their condition;
which can be thrown into vibration immediately by
the mind of man, and mediately by the nervous sys-
tem; which manifests itself when thrown out of
equilibrium, and produces mental effects through un-
usual stimulation of the brain and nerves, cannot
but be allowed to be a cause which answers to all
the conditions that we desire to unite, and which
is sufficient to account for the phenomena that
we have been considering. And, be it remembered
ever, we have not created the medium for our pur-
poses,- the necessities of the case have created the
498 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
medium for us, as alone adequate to the production
of certain effects which do really and visibly exist.
Even should my theory of undulations be rejected,
we cannot but conclude that in mesmerism there is
an t'Special agency. Not one argument against the
reality of its existence is available, while, on the other
hand, a mass of positive evidence demonstrates that it
does exist. Should then the learned at once refuse
to examine and to believe, I own that I shall feel
surprise. But, that the world in general should reject
mesmerism, till the great leaders of opinion have
marshalled the way to its precincts, I not only expect,
but am ready to forgive, since there are so many.re-
ceived truths (as they are called) from which it seems
incorrect to differ, and which the most part of man·
kind carry about, as Foster says we do our_characters
and our watches, without scrutinising of what they
are composed. In the mean time let me, at least, in
drawing to a conclusion, set forth the ·claims of mes-
merism to general attention -to the philosopher as a
philosopher- to man as man. My own debts to
this despised science are too many and too various to
permit me to leave undischarged this duty towards
others and myself.
First, in a philosophical point of view, mesmerism
may be affirmed not only to touch nearly, but to
throw light on, questions which have long agitated
the intellectual world.
One of the most interesting of these is whether
there may not exist a special though invisible agency
appropriate to the nervous system, through which
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 499
sensation is accomplished and animal motion per-
formed. Charles Bonnet of Geneva, a century ago,
suggested that there was an elastic ether resident in
the nerves in a manner analogous to that in which
the electric fluid resides in the solid bodies along
which it is conducted. He says, " Should we admit
that there is in the nerves a fluid, which in subtlety
and elasticity resembles light, or ether, by the help of
such an agency we may easiJy explain the celerity
with which external impressions are communicated
to the mind, and that with which the mind executes
so manydiversified operations." (Euai AMI. chap. v.)
·This suggestion has been variously received, or
combated, bot never absolutely dropped or decided
one way or the other, so recent a writer as Mrs.
Somerville (who may be supposed to represent the
prevailing authorities of the day) allowing that the
galvanic fluid " may ultimately prove to be the cause
of muscular action."•
Now it appears to me that mesmerism is more cal-
culated to decide this point than galvanic batteries
or experiments on the divided nerves of dogs and
rabbits.
We have seen that, in cases of mesmeric sympathy,
the actual sensation of one person is transferred ac-
curately to another : so also the mental action of the
mesmeriser can - so to speak - perform motion in
another. I have actually seen mesmerised persons
make the most laughable faces simultaneously with
their mesmeriser, though the latter was standing quite
• Connexion of the Physical Sciences, p. 331.
·500 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM;
behind them. If he put out his tongue, the patient
also protruded his ; if he wrinkled his brow, the pa-
tient wrinkled his brow likewise. These things may
appear ludicrous- to those who view but the outside
of things they are purely so ; but to the thoughtful
inquirer every trifle connected. with a grave subject
is of importance.
Be it remembered that the phenomenon of which
we are speaking does not take place indifferently in
all cases of mesmeric relationship between two per•
.sons; but only (with few exceptions) when themes·
·meriser exerts his will and attention to that particular
end. Where, indet>d the relation between the parties
is very strong, the patient is apt, as it were involun..
tarily, to adopt the gestures and mode of walking of
his mesmeriser. He is as a machine swayed ever by
the volition of the latter. But in general the con-
nection between particular acts of will and intention,
originating with the mesmeriser, and particulur mo-
tions occurring simultaneously in the patient, is
marked and decisive. The inference is irresistible.
One mind originates motion in two bodies ; one act
te~ds to two performances. The medium, set in
motion between mesmeriser and patient, does not, in
this instance, move the latter in the manner of a
mere stick or rod ; it is plainly impulse as well as
guidE', and conveys to the motory nerves of the pa-
tient the exact impulsion which it takes from the
will of the mesmeriser. Whatever be the force which
has moved the muscles of the one, precisely the same
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM;· 501
degree of that force is meted out to the muscles of
the other.
I may now ask whetlier the mesmeriser, h!l.ving
thus in the truest sense performed muscular motion
in another, and evidently by a medium (for actions
are not propagated save by transference from. atom
to atom), may not legitimately infer that what is so
efficient to influence the nerves and muscles ofanother
person is also adapted to act upon his own and is
capable of the production of that very effect in him-
self which he has remarked in another? So also~
when he extends, as it were, to his patient, or rather
gives action to, a medium of sensation the finest and
most delicate imaginable, may he not at least con-
jecture that a similar medium of sensation is em-
ployed in conveying to himself impulsions from the
external world ?
But to consider the matter more closely. The
first effect of mesmerism is a bodily sleep, from which
volition seems to be absenL In such a state, that it
is not natural for persons to get up and walk must;
be conceded. Constitutional sleepwaking is the af-
fltetion of but a few, and of those who are mesmerised
scarcely one perhaps has been addicted to sleep-
waking. In accordance with this, it will be remem-
bered tl1at, in my cases of mesmeric sleepwaking, the
patient always manifested at first the strongest re_.
luctance to move, nor indeed would stir until com-
pelled by the strong command of the mesmeriser.
There is, then, at such moments as the patient is·
moving, a force in operation entirely opposed t~ a;
502 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM,
natural dE!I!ire, and of sufficient strength to prevail
over that natural desire. But this is not all ; we
have not here a common case of sleepwaking, whose
only phenomenon is that motion ordinarily per-
formed with consciousness is performed uncon-
sciously ; but we have sleepwaking directed by an
external force ; we have even, be it remembered,
JDOtion cosentaneous with the motion of another, as
often as the mesmeriser wiihes to produce the phe-
nomenon. We have the nerves of motion inert and
incapac\tated one moment, yet brought the next into
involuntary action.
Professor Agassiz, who could not of himself stir a
muscle when mesmerised, moved, when impelled by
me, like an automaton across the room. Even while
retaining his consciousness enough to resist my efforts,
by mere gestures, without contact of any kind, to
move his limbs, he subsequently owned that he was
actually compelled into such motions as I wished
him to perform. Surely a phenomenon like this can
be iilterpreted but in one manner. The mesmeriser
restores to his patient's nerves of motion that force,
the previous abstraction of which rendered them in-
. capable. Whether that force be galvanic or not is a
different question.
Again, pins have been thrust into the flesh of
healthy persons during the mesmeric slumber, and
they have betrayed no mark of feeling. Now, in such
cases, it is plain that the nerves, which ordinarily
convey;sensations oftouch to the mind, areas inefficient
to propagate impulsions upward to the brain,as ifthey
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 508
had been tied or cut. - But wherefore ? The nerve&
have been neither tied nor cut ; they have undergone
no alteration that we can perceive. What are we
then to conclude but that they have ceased to become
conductors to some invisible force which is indis-
pensable to their action? );"or, lo J the same person
who does not feel pins thrust into his own flesh
betokens sensibility to the slightest injury which can
be offered to his mesmeriser, and that not merely by
a simple idea conveyed in some way to his mind, but
by an actual impulsion on a nerve of touch ; for he
will raise his hand to the part of his body correspond-
ing with that which suffers pain in the mesmeriser.
Seeing this, what can we surmise but that the nerve
which was so lately inacti"e has been restored to
action by the very force whose absence marred its
eiiciency ;-that the mesmeriser communicates to his
patient not merely a conductor, but a means, of sensa-
tion? And impressions of this kind are conveyed
in no otherway to the patient; for, unless the mesmer-
iser act, his nervous extremities are in general as de.ad.
Since then we see the motory and sentient powers
of the mesmerised person as active through the mes-
meriser as they were shown to be powerless in them-
selves, we infer that the latter restores the very force
through the obstruction of which they become in-
efficient.
And thus a new antecedent to sen~ation and pal-
pable motion becomes manifest: for, however uncer-
tain a person may be that there is an intermediate
agency between his own will and the motions of hia
504 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM• .
own body, be cannot doubt that there is an inte..,;
mediate agency between himself and the motions he
produces in another ; and again, however doubtful
be may·be that his own nerves, in sensation, are ·but
conductors to some more efficient force, he must be
certain that be produces sensation in another person,
not by nerves merely, but by some invisible mE>dium
acting on those nerves and restoring to them their
capacities. And that this is all effectedby one medium
seems certain, for the mesmeriser can concentrate its
motory and sentient efficacy into one act; as when
he handles a ball, or other object, and the patient
(with his back turned and at a distance) goes through
the same motions ; and, by sympathetic feeling, be-
comes aware what it is that the mesmeriser holds in
his hand. It would be perhaps rash to say that
hence he may decidedly infer that motion and sensa..
tion are performed by a medium in himself; yet
_speculation cannot but tend that way, and surely-he
may be forgiven if he supposes that he reads and
scans, as by reflection in a faithful mirror, the mys~
teries of his own being in the manifested operations
of his who sympathises with him so wondrously..
This, at least, is clear : - if ever we hope'to arrive at
a just notion of what has been called the nervous
energy, it must be through means like these. Only
thus can we at once demonstrate its existence, and
analyse its nature. The action on ourselves of
those powers which constitute our vitality is too
near us, too intimately blended with our being, to
form a subject of personal contemplation. Our un...
THE MESMERIC ::.UEDIUI\1. 50Ji
consciousness of their agency is a law ofour being? and
has hitherto been the great argument against admit-
ting the very existence of a nervous medium, which,
however plausibly presented to rt'ason, can in no way
be rendE'red palpable to sense. Here, however, the
mesmeriser, seeing that he is unconscious how he
actuates the person whom he sways, while that he
does actuate him through a mt'dium is manifest by
visible signs, perceives that his ignorance, how he
feels or performs his own voluntary movements, is no
proof whatever that he may not unconsciously use,
both in sensation and in motion, a subde, elastic, and
ethereal medium.
While physiologists have been engaged in surmis-
ing or disputing the existence of a nervous agency,
metaphysicians, on their parts, have. transferred .the
question into a more spiritual region, speculating on
the strange marriage between mind and matter, and
proposing, in order to efFect a union between such
opposites, an intermediary partaking of the qualities
of both. That a link does really seem wanting be-
tween the mind and the grosser matter with which
we are visibly surrounded is to be presumed from
the subject having engaged men's attention from the
earliest ages; from the period when the ancient phi-
losophy devised intermediary image8 of things, to
that in which Cudworth imagined a plastic mediator.
This palpable hiatus between the visible and the in-
visible-the subde and the gross-mesmerism seems
calculated to supply. Let me not for one moment be
misunderstood. The notion ofa half-intelligent me-
z
506 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
dium is as absurd a jumble as the idea of a hall-
thought would be. Mind cannot be cut up into
fractions ; and to divide it, or mingle it with matter,
in any way, is just the same as if we were to talk of
pounds of intellect or square inches of rationality.
When I speak, then, of the possibility of a medium
subsisting between the mind and the grosser mani-
festations of matter, I must by 'no means be con-
ceived to intimate that this medium partakes in any
degree of the qualities of spirit. In this respect I
perfectly agree with Sterne. " The ancient philo-
sophy materialised spirit, and the modern, in order
to be even witl1 it, has spiritualised matter. What
extremes are men liable to run into, who depart one
line from common sense." Besides, this petitio prin-
cipii is altogether useless, and explains nothing.
Thought and sensation are in the mind alone. The
latter sensation, at least, seems brought there from
afar, but we cannot shorten the road. When we
have traced it to the brain, it has still a journey to
perform, as long and as difficult as ever,- the transi-
tion, namely, from motion to thought, from a sign
to an idea, from matter to spirit ; and, however we
may deem that we facilitate the passage by a medium,
half-mind, half-matter, we in reality have left the op-
posing principles just where they were.· We have
only assumed the very point which we were desirous
of proving. I would, then, plainly state that I re-
cognise only two grand divisions in nature, namely,
of cogitative, and incogitative- that which think.'!,
and that which thinks not. Yet that, in a different
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 507
eense, there may exist a medium between sensible
objects and the mind, I trust to demonstrate is not
impossible.
Striving to arrive at the true source whence arises
so obstinate an idea in us ofa medium between mind
and matter, I imagine it, like most of our notions, to
proceed from the ground of our own personal expe-
rience. We see and know that we never move matter
external to ourselves except through the medium of
our own bodies. Our minds we feel to be inadequate
per 1e to stir one atom of extraneous matter. In the
118Dle way we feel and know that all information re-
specting external things comes to the mind through
the medium of the body ; and, apart from this
medium, we feel that our minds are inadequate to
take cognisance of external objects. Hence arises in
the mind a general proposition that mind afFects
matter, or is affected by matter only through a me•
dium ; and we carry this piece of reasoning even into
the precincts of our own corporeal frame - conceiv-
ing that this also, being matter, can only be moved
by our minds through a medium, and ean act on our
thinking principle only through a medium. Now
this reasoning, though imperfect, is not altogether
null and baseless. That mind can only act on matter
through a mE'dium, and viC8 ver1d, is, indeed, a
false proposition ; for allowing a medium, however
ethereal, between the mind and brain, we cannot but
allow/ that medium itself to be matter, unless indeed
we fall into the old absurdity of a half-intelligent
medium. Still there are media which mani&.tly
z 2
608 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
exist, and are made evident in their eft'ecta ; which,
though they cannot be in any way confounded with
mind, inasmuch as they are incogitative, do ~y
differ from our common notions of matter in many
particulars ;- I speak of media, to which we may
apply that which Dr. Maculloch has beautifully said
concerning light. " Imponderable, intangible, inca-
pable of being arrested and accumulated, ever under
the most rapid motions, though we cannot discoYer a
projectile force; coming we know not how, and vanish-
ing we know not where, it is in all but the power of
thought a spirit." Now to matter in general we cer-
tainly attach the ideas ofweight and palpable solidity;
and though, when we say of the ethereal medium that
it is co-extensive with space, and composed ofimpene-
trable, indivisible atoms, we really classify it with
matter, still there is a lurking feeling in the mind
which creates a distinction between matter of so
ethereal a texture and that which we can set', weigh,
and handle. Why matter of this nature should seem
to us more adapted to act upon mind, and vice t1ersd,
than any other sort of matter, we can perhaps give no
very philosophical reason ; yet the fact is that there is
some such notion in the mind of most persons.
But, again, this notion is really in harmony with
some striking facts. The grosser media, which are
palpable to our senses, act upon and modify the
finer media, which are in truth always the moet
forceful and pervading; but are either not palpable
to our senses, or are perceived only by such a sense
as sight, which is in truth a complicated intellectual
THE MESMERIC HEDIUH, 509
operation. The atmosphere modifies the electric
principle, and its ·insensible action on our bodies ;
the atmosphere modifies light, and adapts it to the
visual capacities of man. Light itself has been re-
cently conjectured to depend on electrical actions and
reactions. Should this prove to be so, aud should
subsequent experiments demonstrate that man com-
municates with his own body through electric agency,
the following proposition, now but a theory, would
gradually evolve itself. Grosser media act on the
finer, the finest on the mind of man ; and again the
mind of man reacts from finer to grosser media. I
confess that to a system like this the phenomena of
mesmerism incline me to lean; while, as it appears
to me, the analogies of the visible universe tend also
to the same conclusion. In the words of the poet -
" Look nature through ; 'tis just gradation all.
By what minute degrees her scale ascends I
Each middle nature join'd at each extreme,
To that above is join'd, to that beneath:
Parts into parts reciprocally shot
Abhor divorce."
Again. Wherever we tum our contemplation,
there is a manifest progression from finer to grosser
media. An ethereal and infinitely subtle fluid, per-
vading the realms of space, is the first known step
from Deity to matter. Distributed through this,
and probably condensed from the prime element, are
discerned masses of a luminous substance, which
have received the name of nebulm from astronomers.
z3
510 TBE MBSHERIC MEDIUM.
Amidst these luminous masses, which cOnstitUte the
first traces of matter of which we have·ocular evi-'
dence, are beheld certain nuclei, forming the germs of
future suns or worlds. So, at least, we may safely
conjecture ; for all geology goes to prove that " all
this fair variety of things," which our earth displays;
was once in a fluid, or rather gaseous, state. Nay,
there needs but a sufficient application of the uni-
versal solvent- heat, to melt down all again into
fluidity ·and vapour. Thus, again, with science, we
arrive at a primal, universal element, such as is
now supposed to be the substratum even of the gases :
and this element (I speak it with reverence) is the
first demonstrated action of the Almighty mind.
If I err in thus expressing myself; I err with no
less an authority than Milton, who speaks of light 111
the first eflluence of divine power: -
" Hail, holy Light, of'spring of HeaYen, first-hom,
Or ofthe Eternal co-eternal beam,
May I express thee unblam'd P since God is lipt,
And never but in unapproaehed light
Dwelt from eternity, dwelt then in thee,
Bright eflluence of bright essence increate.
Or hear'at thou rather, pure ethereal stream,
Whose fountain who shall tell ? Before the Suo.
Before the Heavens thou wert, and at the voice
Of God, a1 with a mantle, didst invest
The rising world of waters dark and deep,
Won from the void and formless infinite."
Now that, in mesmerism, a subtle medium is set
in motion by the mind has been proved, btit whether
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. Oll
this be accomplished through the intermediate agency
of the brain, or whether the brain itself is moved by
the medium- whether, in brief, the brain or the
medium be most proximate to the mind, it is impos--
sible for us to decide with absolute certainty, it being
evident that a man must be palpably proved to have
acted without a brain before the question can be
finally settled. There is, however, a sort of reluc-
tance in the mind (instinctive, I grant, and not phi-
losophical,) to conceive that spirit can act at once
and directly on nerve and fibre, and, above all, on
a torpid viscus like the brain, which may be cut and
pierced without the subject of such an operation
being conscious of any particular feeling. Rather
we incline to imagine that an impalpable ethereal
medium, such as the mesmeric, must be the next
thing to mind itselt: A medium differing in so far
from ordinary matter, as it is set in motion by the
human mind immedia~ely. In such a sense only
could we admit the existence of an intermediary
between mind and matter.
So much may be said without much thought or
careful induction : but, when we come to examine into
the principles of ~mmon muscular motion, we are
compelled to use stronger language. The physio-
logist here cannot fairly have recourse to his old
stalking-horse of "ital action, on which he hobbles
away so often, when pressed for an explanation of
the mysteries of our frame. He himself must grant
that it is will which originates and governs the
duration of muscular contraction. He must also
z 4
512 THE liESliERIC !IEDJUll.
grant that contraetion cannot take place without tbe
immediate i".ft~~n~ee of the brain and nerves- though
what that i".ft~~D~Ce is be Tery wiaely forbears to tell
us. Moseular motion, then, is performed by the
.;nor mind (for will is botan attribute of the mind),
through the medinm of the nerves. Bot are the
nerves of themselves a medium fitting for this work ?
Let us examine them, and we shall find nothing
whatever to account for their manellous capacities.
They are, to appearanCE>, the weakest ofall WNk in-
struments- mere soft white filaments, enTeloped in
a fine cellular membrane-and yet the strength and
the power of all the body is derived from them !
This simple fact reduces us to a dilemma. Either
we must believe the nenoos substance to be the
channel of some ulterior and efficient energy, to us
invisible, or we most admit, aecording to Pascal's
generally received dt>finition of a miracle- namely,
" an effect exceeding the natural force of the means
employed " - that a constant miracle is taking place
in our mortal frames. Fo11owing the good old advice
of the poet, who said " Nee Dem intersit," &c. we
rather shrink from attributing to direct divine ageney
every minute corport>al motion which our faney may
incline us to make. It is not the mind itself which
directly moves the muscle; if it did, we should have
to seek no fartht>r for an adequate agency, since we
have never measured the power of mind to moTe
matter. But, as we know, the mind moves the
muscle indirectly, and through the medium of the
brain and nerves. In this case there is a known
THE .MESMERIC MEDIUM,. 513
sequence of events; and a sequence which, as it
stands at present, is an absurdity. The weak soft
fibre stirs the muscle, as we are told, so immediately,
so mightily, that "its fibres shorten and become hard,
without any preparatory oscillation or hesitation, and
they acquire all at once such an elasticity, that they
are capable of vibrating or producing sounds.'' •
There is nothing in mesmerism more wonderful than
this, more difficult of digestion to credulity itself,
when we take the matter as it stands, without bring-
ing into view an ulterior agency, -an efficient force.
Why shrink we from so doing? When we look ·
upon the heavens, and the magnificent system of
sidereal worlds, harmoniously moving round a com-
mon centre, we acknowledge all this harmony to be
the result of a force which we call gravitation. But
what is the wonder of the universe compared to the
mystery of the mind linked to matter and actuating
it? It is a mystery; but we need not on that ac-
count render it an absurdity by inefficient causation
-by denying the mind an adequate intermediate
agency. Such denials betray physiologists into great
inconsistencies; as, for instance, Magendie one mo-
ment censures every attempt to explain muscular,
contraction, and the very next explains it himself
by the vaguest of vague terms - "cerebral influ-
ence," affirming, from the strength of maniacs, that
" the muscular power may be carried to a wonderfol
degree by the action of the brain alone.''
• Magendie.
z 5
5)4 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
What is this brain, what are the nerves, that they
1hould possess such power of action? Is it inherent
in them ? If so, why does it not endure when mao
has ceased to think and live. Examine ·a nene
apart from the intelligent being it once served, pore
over it with the microscope; then take the brain and
weigh it well, or cut it up into sections: where is
the innate power of action, where is all . that may
truly be called power -namely, the enduring and
essential capacity of originating motion ? If, then,
it be an absurdity to attribute an inherent power of
motion to flesh and fibre, it is also an absurdity to
attribute to weak instruments like the nerves ~
inherent power of stirring, in an instant, the strong
volume of a muscle. And if the power be not inhe..
rent, where is it? Granting all that we can grant as
regards the efficiency of mind to stir its own organ-
isation, we must beware how we charge inconsistency
upon the Creator by supposing Him to violate those
laws of action which he points out to us by manifest
signs ; and never has our experience shown that by a
weaker agent we can move a stronger - in a case, too,
where the disproportion is manifest, and where there
are no connecting links to prepare the way for the
action of the much weaker upon the much stronger.
Again we ask -where are we to look for the force
that effects such wonders ? Now we fear not to ex-
plain muscular action in the dead by a force that we
call galvanic. Why will we not explain it in the
living by some efficient force at least- for here we
have equally a sensible phenomenon that calls on us
THE MESMERIC MEDIUK. 515
for an adequate explanation. I know not what philo-
sophic doubt may make of this question, but cer-
tainly common sense decides, from the ordinary phe-
nomena of muacular motion, that the mind actually
dispenses and metes out a material force, of which
the brain is, perhaps, the elaborator, and the nerves
decidedly the appointed conductors. This renders
the question, Whether the mind acts on the body,
mediately or immediately? much more easy of de-
cision ; and, when we weigh probabilities, inclines the
balance in favour of those who adhere to the doctrine
of amedium.
Finally. When we agree to divide matter into
ponderable and imponderable, we, in fact, create a
distinction to the full as great and important as any
which can be devised by supposing a third substance
which is neither mind nor matter. And, this distinc-
tion once admitted, there is no inconsistency whatever
in saying that by matter imponderable we communi,..
cate with matter ponderable.
Be it remembered, I assert no more than that
mesmerism bears on this disputed point;- that it
decides the question is not affirmed. But, when ~
reflect that the whole of mesmerism seems to consist
in discarding ordinary intermediaries, such as the
external mechanism of the senses and the media
adapted to this, and in arriving at grounds and prin~
eiples; above all, when we see, by the experiments of.
Dr. Elliotson, that mesmerism can be a succedaneum
at least for muscular force, enabling the weak to raise
heavy weights; and when again we combine this with
z 6 .
616 THE MESMERIC IIIEDIUM'.
all that has been just adnnced respecting an inter-
mediary in muscular action,-- surely, all this con-
sidered, we cannot be far from the belief that the
mesmeric medium is really the long•sooght link that
was to render our system more complete and more
harmonious.
Should we come to this conclusion, we remoYe at
once the objection so often rai3ed against the very ex-
istence of mesmerism, that its agent cannot- in our
usual state at least- be made the object ofour eenses.
It is a medium to enable us to perceiYe objects, and
therefore that it should not be itself a direct object of
sense seems natural. Light itself is the true object of
the eye, and is, in certain cases, its sole object ; and
whether we communicate even with this directly may
be made a question. Shouldwe establish a mediumbe-
tween the mind and all matter perceivable by us, still
the principle must here also be adhered to. It woUld
only be in analogy with what we have ascertained in
other cases, should we decide that we only communi-
cate with light through the medium of another and an
imperceptible agency. Of course the same reasoning
will apply to air, and to the action of all media on
our senses. Such, at least, as we have seen was the
view 'which Newton took of the economy of sens-
ation -not giving all his reasons why he did so ; but
who can doubt but that such a mind as his kept back
within itself more reasoning on most subjects than
common thinkers bave promulgated and found ade-
quate to secure a very tolerable reputation?
But, in truth, the objection to the reality of mes-
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 517
merism, because it .cannot be brought before our
senses, is not worth much. We see it in its effects,
and of these we can judge by more senses than one.
The mesmerised, perhaps, being in a different state
to ourselves, may see or feel indications at least of this
subtle agent, when they speak of perceiving a kind of
fine vapour, or electric light. If so, the essential
difference between the mesmeric and the normal
state would consist in the power of being sensible to
the very medium which furnishes the means of sense.
But, in truth, what is the invisible? The micro-
scope will prove our vision to be capable of a de-
velopment, the limits of which will not easily be found.
Revealed by this, "world within world enclosed"
will burst upon our sight, where we had supposed a
void. It would be, then, ridiculous to make the ex-
istence of a medium between mind and body de- ·
pendent on the cognisance of our senses as at pre-
sent constituted. That which is not discerned by us
may be clearly seen by more spiritual optics. I should
be sorry if my existence depended on the perfection
or imperfection of some persons' organs of sight and
general sensibility.
Indeed, if we lay to heart the deceptiveness and
mutability of all the external species of matter, at
the same time considering that we have no reason to
deem it capable of change in its ultimate and imper-
ceptible particles ; if also we reflect that whatever is
not palpable in itself yet is indicated by its effects,
forces us on pure reason by withdrawing at once the
aid and the illusion of our external senses; we shall
JH8 THE JIESMERIC JIEDIUJI.
perhaps come to the conclusion that the invisible is
the only true, exclaiming with the old Latinist,
" lnvisibilia non decipiunt."
These remarks will be received with indulgence or
not, by no means according to their merit, but ac-
cording to the tum and character of each several
reader's mind ; and this observation involves a gene-
ral truth not sufficiently attended to. We all ha~e
our own modes of reasoning, and, as our minds are
analytic or synthetic, we love those who never reach
or those who jump to a conclusion. Again, some
delight in all theories, and some love no body's
theories but their own. Now, whether I belong to
those who hastily snatch up an hypothesis, because it
so nicely accOunts for things, or to those who draw
deductions, because their reason is convinced, I leave
to others to decide ; that is, provided they be of a
party who decide on any thing. For my own part
I confess my weakness. I like to come to a decision;
and herein I am at a manifest disadvantage, for in
all ages the doubters have lorded it greatly over the
deciders. It is so grand, and so philosophic to doubt,
even of one's own senses.
I leave the world to apply this to mesmerism gene-
rally. Whether the speculations into which this sin-
gular subject leads us almost without our wills be or
be not generally acceptable, it must be owned that,
in suggesting to us a mode of sensation more direct
and worthy of the mind itself than the common, they
do us no ill service ; and surely we cannot grossly
err in giving to thought so swift-winged a messe~r
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 519
of volition, so subtle a vehicle of sensibility, as the
mesmeric medium.
The idea of nature's constitution, which the appre-
hension of such a medium excites, are at once com-
prehensive and ennobling; and the philosopher, who
desires to have large views of man and of creation
in general, cannot take his stand on a better vantage..
ground than the one which the inquirer into mesmer-
ism is compelled to occupy. Thus expanded, his
mind can scarcely fail to be cured of that dogmatism
which cries out " impossible" to all that is not within
the narrow round of its own experience. The first
time of witnessing a successful experiment in mesmer-.
ism must be an era in the life of every thinking
being ; while the student in this science, who at
length arrives at the knowledge of an ethereal me-
dium, connected with all animated beings and with
thought in particular, beholds a flood of light illumi-
nating mysteries which have probably long weighed
on his heart and brain. He beholds all life and in-
telligence at once connected and individualised-
reciprocally connected in all its parts universally with
God ; and he has a glimpse at least of the waves of
the great ocean agitated by thought eternal, and
tending to thought again in the limited portions of
intelligence which the Almighty has gifted with in-
dividual consciousness.
Should his mind be less excursive, should be
study mesmerism with practical severity; still be
cannot but view it with interest as a link between
sciences at present disunited or standing remotely
520 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
connected. Physics and metaphysics are now at dag-
gers-drawing; but here they may embrace and be
reconciled. It so evidently touches on all and blends
all. Without it the connection of the physical sci-
ences is incomplete, for this alone concentrates them
.pt>rsonally in man. I cannot for a moment doubt
that a future generation will hail mesmerism as the
very note which was wanting to render all nature
harmonious, a8 the key which fits every ward of
knowledge and unlocks all the treasures of science.
The ornithorhyncus was deemed at first a fictitious
creature, but was found at last to be the very link
that was wanting to the animal creation.
Let me hope that if, in endeavouring to advance a
consummation so desirable, I have fallen into scien-
tific errors or partial inadvertences, I may be for-
given on the score of motive at least; though I am
quite willing to be charged with the fault, provided
mesmerism be not blamed. In setting forth a new
science there is always a probability that errors will
be committed, especially in setting forth a science
like this, which to solve entirely would be to solve
the riddle of man.
There is one imputation, however, from which I
shall with difficulty escape, a charge of which I fear
not even my own conscience can acquit me. In the
first part of this work I uttered disrespectful words
regarding .those who, treating on mesmerism, took
occasion to frame systems of the universe; and now,
behold, I am myself found guilty of soaring upward&
from my subject into the regions of space, and of
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 521
drawing from a few despised facts the highest con-
clusions. So easy is it to blame; so difficult to avoid
blame ; so difficult, also, when treating of man, not
to touch upon lofty topics and to be led even un-
awares to speculate on the sublimities of creation.
It remains for me now to exhibit mesmerism in
such points of view as regard all men equally, whether
considered as material or immaterial beings.
First, as a remedial agent, mesmerism, when better
known, cannot but be universally important and in-
teresting. That it should not already be so is only a
proof how inveterate prejudice can be, then most
when most irrational. When we see persons eagerly
running after every new or old new-revived remedy,
consenting to be starved, as is now the fashion in
Germany (where men are mad for what is called
the hunger-cure); or to have their insides drenched,
Sangrado-like, with water; or to sit smilingly plunged
up to the neck in mud. When we see such instances
of more than martyr fortitude displayed too on the
occasion of every trifling, or perhaps imagined, ma-
lady, we cannot but wonder that mesmerism, so
fraught with hope and healing to the human race,
should be neglected; more especially, too, as its
therapeutics are neither disagreeable nor disgusting.
" Blest be the man who first invented sleep," says ·
Sancho ; and in this a man has only to sleep and to
be cured.
Not being medical myself, I cannot bring forward
a number of personally observed cases in which mes-
merism has been useful. I have, however, sometimes
522 THE MESHBRIC MEDIUM.
mesmerically treated slight indispositions in members
of my own family with success, and I have had occa-
sion to be struck generally with the power of mes-
meric agency to equalise the circulation and to
relieve pain. I have known it to be particularly
successful in cases of severe headach-by no mE"&Ds
one of the least ills " which flesh is heir to." Oil
one occasion, a friend of mine, the Baron de Karlo-
witz, whom I used to mesmerise sometimes for mere
purposes of experiment, came to me with a severe
cold and hoarseness which prevented him from
speaking above a whisper. We neither.of us had any
idea of curing this affection ; yet, after he had been
mesmerised for about an hour, during the greater
part of which time he slept, he rose from his chair
.perfeetly relieved from his catarrhal symptoms. He
also found, after I had mesmerised him a few times,
that he had got rid of a chronic rheumatism in one
arm, from which he had been suffering for many
weeks.
From medical friends I have received many parti-
cular accounts of the beneficial agency of mesmerism ;
hut these the limits of my work do not allow me to
detail. I can only state generally that, as might
have been expected from the evident action of this
influence on the nerves, mesmerism is especially
useful in those derangements of the nervous system
which are generally beyond the reach of medicine.
Epilepsy, palsy, nervous depression, madness even,
have been successfully combated and subdued by
this, which may most emphatically be called the
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 523
natural remedy. If only in its power to calm, when
opiates are hurtful and improper, this tranquillising
influence is of incalculable value, enabling nature,
during the periods of repose, to balance and recruit
her disordered forces. Dr. Foissac, of Paris, has
assured me that he has seen men restored to calmness
and finally to health ·by mesmeric action, when suf-
fering in the last stage of spasmodic cholera. Rea-
soning from analogy, we should conjecture that this
is probably the only power available to counteract
hydrophobia. At any rate, the instinct whereby
persons in the mesmeric state prescribe remedies for.
themselves or othen might here be turned to most
valuable account. The insensibility to bodily suf-
fering, which has been. proved to characterise the
mesmeric state, may also, as it has already in ~me
few instances, prove of the greatest service in en..
abling patients to undergo the amputation of limba.
or other painful operations. In reply to a question
I addressed by letter to Dr. Foiasac, I received the
following communication : -
" Voua pouvez, en toute sur~, magnetiser des
femmes enceintes ; vous leur ferez beaucoup de bien.
Quelques somnambules ont accouche sans Ia plus
petite souft'rance; dans tout cas le magnetiame rend
lea douleun tres supportables."
The last and most important point of view in
which we have now to consider mesmerism is in its
reference to the future prospects of man, considered
as an improveable being, capable of immortality.
My object here is, as it has heretofore been, at once
524 THE · nsMBRIC MBDIOII.
to explain and to utilise mesmerism. Already I have
cast light on its apparent mysteries: ftnt, by the
laws of our normal consciousnea; secondly, by the
true nature of sensation ; thirdly, by the native force
and faculties of the mind; fourthly, by dt>monstrating
that, in the mt'81Deric state, the mind is not only de-
tached from its present restricted organs, but gifted
with a medium of sensation more direct and more
worthy of itself; and now, finally, I purpose to render
evident whatever in my subject may yet appear to
be unexplained, by considering man as a being
capable of a development unsuited to his present era
of existence. The subject is most important. The
other topics on which we have been engaged are but
speculative points, and are comparatively devoid of
interest.
This comes home at once to our business and
bosoms. Wretched, indeed, must be the view of
man which confines him to this bank and shoal of
time, which does not regard him, and all his glorious
endowments, as intended for a series of existences.
"-For, we live by hope,.
And by desire ; we see by the glad light,
And breathe the sweet air offuturity." •
Here, only, when we doubt, we are vastly too
humble; refusing to recognise our own dignity and
the privileges accorded to humanity. That man is
improvable and capable of a development, the limits
• Wordsworth.
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 525
of which have not yet been ascertained, is his high
prerogative which distinguishes him from the brute
creation. Even common life will teach us this : but
mesmerism, in an especial manner, proves the capa-
cities of man to be susceptible of progression; for it
not only exhibits him in a state of moral and intel-
lectual improvement, but in a condition of increased
sensitive power. Let this propitiate the religious
mind at least. Mesmerism is no miracle, but a de-
velopment of faculties inherent in man. It is
fraught with instruction the most holy, so that we
maysay of it that whic4 Galen affirmed ofanatomy,-
To examine it is to sing a hymn to the Creator of all
things. Here, indeed, "qui studet orat." It calls
attention to our being, frame, and structure ; and, by
proving that we have an immaterial principle which is
not dependent on the organs of sense, it is calculated
to reclaim to a purer faith the materialist, as it
actually did reclaim a young French physician,
(named Georget) of great promise, who, dying, left
on written record, desiring it by will to be made
public, that mesmerism had convinced him that man
was not a mere compound of organs, but a spiritual
as well as corporeal being.
The light which this phasis of our nature gathers
from and reciprocally sheds on revelation is remark-
able, and to reason's eye most precious. By exhibit-
ing man as at once delivered from the thraldom of
his exterior senses and enabled to attain to greater
heights of moral excellence, it leads one to see that
there is something more in the scriptural expression,
5~6 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
" Sins of the flesh " than a mere form of speech. In
mesmeriam the mind recun to its native character
and fundamental endowments, seeming to cast aaide
the accidental differences induced by education, cir-
cumstances, and neglect of moral discipline. We
thus learn how great a part of the evil that clings to
us is our own work, from our omitting to discipline
and subdue the grosser principle and to combat
those temptations which are actually engendered by
our present position and manner of organisation. ..I
have been told that some writer has called mesmerism
" a miserable compound of faith and fear." I can
assure the author of this sentence that one at leaat of
these elements must be wanting to true mesmerism ;
and I would aak him why he should .confound
faith with base things, or identify that holy power
with credulity? I would send him to Thalaba for
instruction, where, when all that is noble is ·to be per-
formed, when all that is evil is to be vanquished,
" The talisman is faith."
With faith, then, with Christian faith, I would.asso-
ciate mesmerism; and with that which so largely pro·
mises another existence it can easily be allied.
As regards our future state (a question that con-
cerns every mortal being), there is the greatest reaaon
to believe that mesmerism is a boon granted by God
to confirm our faith and to cheer us ,on our way.
All its phenomena combine to identify it with that
which Coleridge has called " the fundamental life."
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 527
As, however, in this expression, there may seem to be
some ambiguity and vagueness, especially to such per·
sons as have not turned their thoughts to thesubject we
are treating ; and as I wish to be particularly clear on
a point so important, I shall endeavour to explain pre-
cisely what is the fundamental life, and wherein it
differs from the organic. If, in attempting this, I
adopt, more than I have hitherto permitted myself, an
apriori and abstracted mode of reasoning, there will
be at least this benefit, - we shall have, from pure
reason, an additional ground of confidence for our
belief in an hereafter; and surely, in respect of this,
we cannot build up the edifice of human hope on too
strong a foundation, or protect it by too many but-
tresses against the inherent weakness of its own im-
perfection.
Already I have hinted at a distinction between
sensation transitory and permanent -occasional and
fundamental, and have insisted on the necessity -of
taking so large a view of man as to distinguish the
accidents of his present situation from his immutable
character, when considered as a being destined for
immortality. I now proceed more particularly to de-
velope this idea.
No man hath seen God at any time. In His works
alone we can behold Him : they are, in the truest
sense, His expressed thoughts; -as the poet says,
addressing the Creator, -
" Glorious ! Because the shadow of Thy might, : t
A step. or link, for intercourse with Thee! "
628 THE MESMERIC liEDIUM.
If by the word of revelation we learn to discern
·God spiritually and to discover our moral relation·
ship towards Him, we no less by the universal manu-
script of nature learn to view Him, as it were, with
the eyes of the body, thus enlarging O\Jl" views of His
power, wisdom, and design. Without this source of
instruction, corporeal as well as intellectual, our re-
lation to the author of all things, we being composed
of body and spirit, would be incomplete.
Now, thus to hold converse with the attributes of
God, as expressed in the visible creation, is not a
temporary object ; for we have no reason to suppoee
that matter and its properties, whatever changes they
may undergo, will ever be annihilated, matter, indeed,
being the only thing respecting which we have sen-
sible evidence that it perishes not : and from this the
great advocate of man's immortality, the poet Young,
draws a chief argument in favour of his subject : -
" The world of matter, with its various forms,
All dies into new life. Life, born from death,
Rolls the vast mass and shall for ever roll.
No single atom, once in being, lost,
With change of counsel charges the Most High.
What hence infers our reason ? Can it be ?
Maker, immortal, and shall Spirit die ? "
Moreover, on matter hang all our hopes of indivi-
dual existence, for, as I have before shown, the indi-
viduality ofall spirit butGod must consist in being im-
. pacted and rt>Stricted,- in being less than pure spirit,
which the Absolute alone can be, - in having a body
raE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 529
through which all information respecting the original
ideas of God being transmitted should become proper
to itself. Reason, then, proclaims external matter, not
less than that portion of it connected with ourselves,
to have been created for a durable existence; and, this
being the case, it is evident that to bring the mind
acquainted with all the qualities of the universe is an
end and object which remains immutable, and which,
unless we can suppose this world to be the be-ali and
the end-all, and God to be limited in creation and
invention, can only be fulfilled here in a partial and
imperfect manner. Supposing man to enter on indi-
vidual existence for the first time in this our planet,
it is here he takes his first lessons in natural divinity ;
and it would be indeed to charge the Almighty with
"change of counsel" and vain expense of mighty
means, were we to suppose that what man learns
here is to be unlearned hereafter. Wise earthly
parents deal not so with their children. Now by
what means, at any time, shall we continue our pro-
cess of instruction? Surely, as we began it; by mean11
of a body, the great purpose of body being to con-
nect mind individually with matter and its properties.
A body, then, that shall endure seems essential alike
to the continuation of our individual existence, and to
our continued commerce with the qualities of the
visible creation. Revelation is perfectly in accord'
with this idea. The Bible philosophically says, at
man's creation, - " And man became a living soul,"
that is, an individual soul, a soul embodied, and ca-
pable ofcommunicating with external matter. When
AA
530 THE HEUO:BIC MEDIUif.
we say, then, that man is to live hereafter, we also
affirm that he is to continue embodied ; and in thi8
again revelation sanctions the deductions of our
reason, one great object of Christ's mission on earth
being to preach the resurrection of man with a body.
Such a body then as would endure, and cleave to the
mind through all external changes, is, in fact, the
fundamental life; while the organic life is but that
visible and grosser envelope which forms our tangible
body in this world, and which is furnished with or-
gans which have especial reference to this particular
state of existence.
More briefly : the fundamental life is the body (for
what is life, in our case at least, but mind inco~
rate?) that we are to retain throughout eternity.
The organic life is the body, or means of communi-
cating with matter, which we now palpably possess,
and which may be imagined to be a temporary de-
velopment of the other, just as leaves, flowers, and
fruits are the temporary development of a tree. And
in the same manner that these pass and drop away,
yet leave the principle of reproduction behind, so
may our present organs be detached from us by death,
and yet the ground of our existence be spared to us
continuously.
When St. Paul affirms that there is a spiritual
body as well as a natural body, he not doubtfully
declares the same thing. He does, in fact, draw a
distinction between the body we now have for pur-
poses connected with the economy of this world and
the more lasting body which is to ~onnect us with
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. 531
the universe in general. He was too good a logician
to have used the words " spiritual body " in a vague
and mystical sense. Body is body, and the only
differences between one body and another which can
possibly obtain are gradations from grosser to finer,
or the contrary.
That we should rather evolve from our present
corporeal elements the body which is to be ours be-
yond the grave, than begin existence de novo; that,
in other words, we should really possess a fundamen-
tal life, or (to speak more intelligibly) a fundamental
body, incapable of passing away with the grosser
covering that envelopes it; that, at death, we should
retain something physically from our actual condition,·
seems pointed out to us by all .the analogies o£ na-
ture.
Everywhere we behold that one state includes the
embryo of the next, not metaphysically, but materi-
ally; and entering on a new scene of existence is not
so much a change as a continuation of what went
before. A sudden leap from one condition to an~
other is not compatible with nature's evident tenden-
cies. The very rudiments of organs, intended in a
higher stage of animal life to be useful, are found,
uselessly as it were, appearing in the lower classes of
animated creatures, or-stronger still-lying in em-
bryo in the same creature in one state, only to be
developed in another. It is an old allusion, but ever
beautiful, -
"-The wings that form
The butterfly, lie folded in the wonn."
A A 2
532 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
We should then, apriori, expect to find the principle
that individualises man, and is the true medium of
his instruction, attached to him from the beginning,
and that the germs of future capacities, physical not
less than intellectual, should be discoverable in his
constitution. Here again we are reminded of St.
Paul's beautiful comparison between man's transitory
body and a seed that loses in the ground only its
exterior husk or covering, while the very circumstance
that produces in it a partial loss and decay is the oc-
casion of development to that germ which from the
first included within itself all that it would be here-
after. Thus it appears manifest that the apostle
supposes that, even from analogies before our eyes,
we may draw conclusions respecting our future eon-
dition;-nay, he seems to find this truth so clear
that he thinks it argues much want of intellect in a
person not to perceive it, as it is evident by his say-
ing, " Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quick-
ened except it die." In another place he strongly
intimates that the doctrine of a permanent body was
not unknown to his converts. "For we know," he
says, " that, if our earthly house of this tabernacle
(meaning evidently our present body) were dissolved,
we have a building of God, a house not made with
bands, eternal in the heavens." And with this he
desires, at death, to be "clothed upon," or, in other
words, embodied : not wishing to be " unclothed,"
or to be disembodied, which would be equivalent to
annihilation, as if he were tired of exi~tence; but only
longing to depart and be with Christ- in other
I •
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM, 533
words to continue existence in a more elevated state
of bt>ing, putting off the external weeds but not the
'Unchanging vesture of the spirit.
From considt>rations like these we may surmise
that the mind is capable of being organised in two
ways -visibly and invisibly. It may have a subtle
envelope, adapted gt>nerally to its own active and
subtle essence, and, in addition to it, it may have a
coarser covering, as our mortal body, adapted to its
present state of existence and furnished with particu-
lar organs for particular purposes. The dissolution
of this coarser covering is by us called death ; that is,
we seem unto mt>n to die : hut with our inner body
we never part, and, consequently, by that we still
retain our hold upon individual existence. As
Leibnitz has remarked: " There is no such thing
as death, if that word be understood with rigorous
and metaphysical accuracy. The soul never quits
complt>tt>ly the body with which it is united, nor dot>s
it pass from one body into another with which it had
no connection before ; a metamorphosis takes place ;
but there is no metempsychosis." •
Let US now t'Xamine the validity of OUr apriori
rt>asoning by a refert>nce to the facts of mesmerim.
Man is shown by these to be capable of increased
sensltlve power. Cui bono- to what end, if here-
after this increase of faculty become not permanent ?
Would it be consistent with the goodness of Pro-
vidence to tantalise us by imperfect glimpses of that
• Encyclopedia Britannica-Preliminary Dissertation•.
A A 3
534 '1'RE MESMERIC MEDIUM.
which we shall never be permitted to realise? Would
wings be folded in the worm if they were not one
day to enable it to By? We cannot think so poorly
of creative wisdom or of thrifty nature. Throughout
her realms there is no mockery of unmeaning dis-
plays of power; and, if so, then is mesmerism a
pledge irrefragable of a future state of existence,
calculated for the exhibition of those energies which
are but a promise here. Relative to this subject, I
have particular pleasure in remarking the coincidence
of thought between myself writing on mesmerism
and an esteemed author, who, in framing a "physical
theory of another life," has unconsciously home wit-
ness by reason to the truth of mesmeric development.
Such unbought testimony is precious. He is speak-
ing of what an enlarged perception might efFect.
" Doubtless," he says, " the mind might bring· its
percipient faculty into contact with the properties of
matter more at large and under fewer limitations.
The medullary substance we may easily suppose to
be laid open to sensation otherwise than it actually
is, and also to be endued with a more refined or
exquisite sensibility.
" The mind, perhaps, in its next stage of life, and
when its active and higher principles have become
mature, may be well able to sustain and advantage-
ously to use a much more ample correspondence with
the material world than would now be ·good or pos-
sible. Perception is at present a circumscribed fa.
culty ; and we confidently anticipate an era, when it
ahall throw off its confinements, and convene at
THE MESMERIC MEDIUM. ~35
large with the material universe, and find itself fa-
miliarly at home in the height and breadth of the
heavens. We may assume that it only needs to be
free from the husk of animal organisation to know
on all sides perfecdy that which now it knows at
points only, and in an abated degree. And besides
knowing effects, it would also know causes. The
inner form of matter, as it has been termed, may, as
well as the external species, be discernible. Instead
of looking only at the dial-plate of nature, we should
be admitted to inspect the wheel-work and the
springs."
The above passage offers a delightful contrast to
those narrow-minded views of man which limit both
himself and his Almighty author to the ipse dixit of
some peevish sceptic. The whole.work, from which
it is extracted, is worthy of attention, and is in per-
fect accordance with mesmeric phenomena; nor can I
refrain from believing that its clever author would re-
joice to see realised in this life anticipations which
he only framed concerning the next. From his re-
marks, which we have just eited above, we gather
that he looks forward to the future enlargement of
human perception in three several particulars-
namely, in an increased refinement or sensibility; in
an extension of the sphere in which that sensibility
shall display itself; and in a power of discerning ob-
jects and their qualities through impediments which,
in our present state, form insurmountable barriers to
the action of our senses. Now, in order to behold
these anticipated prerogatives really conferred on
AA 4
ti36 THE MESMERIC MEDIUM'.
human perception, wf! have only tG behold the higher
phenomena of mesmerism. Not even the commonest
observer (supposing him topossess common honesty)
can witness them without being struck with the con-
viction that a new and more pervading kind of per-
ception has been opened to the mesmerised person ;
but he who should have reasoned previously on the
subject, as the author from whom I have quoted,
would at once perceive that £>very thing which was
passing before his eyes was in beautiful harmony
with science, philosophy, and truth. He would be-
hold that fineness of perception - that enlargement
of the mind's sphere- that power ofacting through
obstacles, which his own reason bad told him must
belong to man when the mechanical restrictions of
the senses should be laid aside.
Let me, however, hasten to qualify whatever may
appear exaggerated in the above statements, lest I
prepare disappointment for the sanguine, or arouse
the apprehensions of the timid. In pure compas-
sion, I would appease the fears of those who deem
mesmerism, if true, a perilous truth, that should be
huddled up from knowledge, and, like the Bible in a
Catholic land, be restricted only to the use of the
initiated. Such persons (and there are such) ~ctu­
ally dread lest the new science should make man toe
wise, and too powerful, and look on it with fear and
trembling as a pernicious stepping-forward from our
sphere, - as the very Babel-tower of this era. Let
these apprehensions subside. In being permitted tb
view the mesmeric state, there is nothing ~ mak.~
THE MESMEI\IC MEDIUMo 537
man proud, but all to keep him humble, while he
s~s that the least step out of our present condition is
an improvement upon our faculties, and that phe-.
nomena so despised, so vilified by common ridicule,
are beyond the compass of our powers to achieve.
Then, too, mesmerism has its restrictions, which keep
it low to earth, even while it hints of heaven. Seldom
does it occur in a degree to astonish. Many are the
conditions it requires for its accomplishment. Care-.
fully hedged about is it by the barriers of opposing
.will, by defective sensibility, even by a spirit of scep-
ttctsm. Its highest capacities are exercised with
difficulty, its loftiest wonders are few and fleeting,
and exhaust evidently the person by whom they are
displayed. Still, it is a rise upon our actual exist-
ence. Its true office is not to make us confident, yet
still to encourage us to hope by the transient and
imperfect display of faculties, the permanent con-
tinuance of which would be incompatible with our
present state of being.
A state of such manifest development, once seen,
would naturally be deemed, as I before have said, a
kind of earnest of that which is to come - a corro-
boration of hope, a first-fruit of prerogatives, which,
though temporary here, should be durable hereafter.
And it would further be conceived that, as the tran-
siently-developed faculties were to accompany man
into a future state of existence, the means through
which they were developed would also cleave to
humanity and be assured to its possession. For, as
we have seen, we do not merely behold in mesmerism
.A .A 5
&38 THE 8UIERIC llEDIUJf.
a shadowy advantage, but a tangible benefit, a urafe.
rial gdOd, working by material means ; an actual
physical improvement in sensation, brought about by
the action of a more pervading and subtle medium
than any of which we have ordinary cognisance.
Hereby, then, we may be enabled to exchange the
abstracted notions of theologians respecting a future
state (which, like all other abstracted notions, touch
the mind but feebly,) for something which may
aatisfy the natural longings of man after the real and
the permanent, - a conclusion to which even the '
ideal tends.
We perceive the possibility of parting with the
externals of sensation, yet retaining its. inner ground;
we reason from the partial and temporary abolition
of the mechanical portions of our being, revealed in
mesmerism, to the total and permanent abolition of
those same portions of our being which is to be
~ndergone in death. As one of my sleepwakers said
to me, before I had myself conceived such a notion,
" The mesmeric state is a far truer image of death
than sleep is." All points in mesmerism to an invi-
sible means of sensation, as real as it is invisible-
a means of which the nerves themselves seem to be
merely the subsidiaries and conducting channels ; -
all points in mesmerism to a finer organ of the mind
t~an those which are palpable and external- an
organ to which our visible body is but as a veil, or
(as the author of the physical theory of another life
calls it) a mere " husk of animal organisation!'
T~ese are not, be it remembered, mere speculations.
THE 1\IESMERIC MEDIUM. 539
They are all grounded on fucts. Facts force on our
minds a fundamental medium in sensation; facts
identify it with mesmerism ; facts lead us to infer
that it is the immediate organ of mind-the real
element in which we have oar being ; and facts lead
us to hope that it will serve us permanendy in
another state of existence. If our feelings lead that
way, our reason not less accompanies and sanctions
their instinctive appeal. The demonstrated con-
nection of mesmerism with the vital principle (or
action) in man; the striking manner in which sleep-
wakers have been shown to cling to their mesmeriser,
as if in governing the mesmeric medium he held the
talisman of their being, - as if, in touching this, he
roused all the instincts of self-preservation ; the im-
portant, nay essential, offices which the medium has
been shown to fulfil in sensation, all proclaim forcibly
that the agency we have been considering may with
truth be called the fundamental life. It abounds
with instances wherein its own permanent and uni-
versal action is contrasted with the transitory and
partial operations of the organic life.
With facts like these before us, where, but to the
mesmeric medium, shall we look for indications of
that inner body -that germ of a better existence,
which analogy shows must be so intimate a part of
us, and which is nevertheless so much a stranger to
ourselves? Where, but in the medium of the funda-
mental sensation, shall we look for the fundamental
life; for are not, in truth, life and sensation identi-
fied in their purpose, at least, of bringing us into
A. A. 6
'J'HE MESMERIC MEDIU••
sensible connection with the world of matter? ThiS
being admitted, there is no difficulty in conceiving
that this action, as relates to the mesmeric medium,.
shall be continuous. As now it so manifestly appear&·
to be an intermediate between us and our present
body, so hereafter it may become the means of
linking us to a new organisation; or it may itself
remain as our spiritual body, appropriated to us in
a certain portion, when this visible and fleshly taber-
nacle is dissolved to its primal elements. Where
shall we find so obedient a servant to our commands,
-where foree to our strong desire after individual
existence, - where an agency so swift, powerful, and
penetrating, so near to our essence, so kindred to our
thoughts? In proportion as we value whatever tends
to bridge our way acrOiS the gulf•of death, whatever
tends to carry on a train of old familiar thought into
the unknown void. let us esteem, cherish, and reve-
rence this cheering manifestation of our being, which
ao beautifully exhibits a pre-existent harmony be-
tween our human hopes and their accomplishment.
That the mesmeric medium should link science to
science is comparatively but a trifling benefit. That
it should connect this world with a future is its laat
and greatest service.
SUPPLEMENT.
TESTIMONIES.
,.
643
TESTIMONIES.
T.ESTIMONY BY A. VANDEVYV.EB, OP A.!rrwuP, SuaoEOI'·
JE, soussigne, Docteur en Medecine et en Chirurgie, certifte
avoir eu le plaisir, vers le commencement de 1838, d'etre
invite, avec quelques uns de mea amis, A deux seances. dana
lesquelles M. Townshend s'est applique Anous demontrer lea
effets etonnants du magnetisme animal, auxquels jusquea-18,
faute de preuves personnelles, je n'avais ajoute qu'une croyance
bien faible, et qui parvinrent A me donner une conviction
inebranlable sur l'authenticite de tout ce que l'on rapportait
de presque miraculeux al'egard de cet agent physique.
Parmis plusieurs experiences egalement concluantes, je
citerai entre autres celle faite sur Ia personne de Mademoiselle
Mesdaga, que M. Townshend, apres quelques passes de courte
duree, parvint aplongt!r dans un veritable somnambulisme, et
dans laquelle je pus me convaincre de Ia grande influence que
produit le magnetisme sur les principales fonctions de notre
TaAli'SLATION.
I, the undersigned Doctor of Medicine and Surgery, eertify to
having had the pleasure ofbeing invited, about the beginning of 1888,
with some friends, to two sittings, in which Mr. Townshend purpoaed
to show us the astonishing effects of mesmerism,- a matter that I
had as yet given little credit to in the absence of personal obeen-
ation, and ·which firmly convinced me of the authenticity of all that
is reported; miraculous as it is, respecting this physical agent.
Amongst many equally conclusive experiments, I will adduee that
made on Mademoiselle Mesdagh, whom Mr. Townshend, after a few
passes of short duration, threw into genuine sleepwaking, during
which I had an opportunity of convincing myself of the great in-
tluence which mesmerism produces on the principal functions of our
•
SUPPLEMENT.
economie, et notamment sur Ia circulation· du sang. Cette
demoiselle, avant le commencement de Ia seance, fatignee
d'avoir ete Ia veille a un bal ou elle avait danse Ia plua grande
partie de la nuit, se croyait peu propre, disait-elle, aressentir,
ce soir Ia, lea effets du magnetisme. Au•i je lui trouvais Ia
face coloree et toute sa personne agitee d'un veritable etat de
fievre : le pouls rendait 120 pul&ations par minute. Cependan&
!'influence magnetique ne se dementit point pour cela. M.
Townshend parvint bientot a Ia rendre somnambule, t apeine
cet etst avait-il ete rendu complet, qu'un calme general
a'etablit chez elle,- que lea battemens de l'artere de 120 etaient
tombes jusqu'a 72.
Un autre pbeoom(me qui. excita rna surprise consistait dans
lea impressions reyues par le magnetiseur, et qui furent, au
meme instant, apperyuea par Ia magnetisee. M. Townshend
nous ayant un moment entretenus de ce phenomene, se mit en
·rapport avec Ia demoiselle en Ia tenant par Ia main, et il me
prit l'idee de lui pincer differens points du tronc et des mem-
brea, en mettant le plus grand soin a ce que Ia magnetisee, qui
d'ailleurs avait lea yeux bande1.1, ne put par aucun moyen
decouvrir queUes etaient lea parties du corps de M. Towns-
economy, and particularly on the circulation of the blood. This
young lady, from having been the previous evening at a ball, where
abe bad danced the greater part of the night, was fatigued before
the sitting, and said abe did not think herself likely to experience the
effects of mesmerism that evening; accordingly I found her face
ftusbed and her whole frame in really feverish excitement. Her pulse
was 1!0 in a minute. Nevertheless the mesmeric influence did not
fail to manifest itself. Mr. Townshend soon succeeded in producing
sleepwaking, and scarcely was this state become complete, when a
general calm came over her, so that her pulse, which bad been 120,
fell to 72.
Another phenomenon which excited my surprise was, that the im-
pressions which the mesmeriser received were at the same instant
perceived by the mesmerisee. Mr. Town~bend, having conversed with
us a abort time respecting this phenomenon, placed himself in relation
with the young lady by taking hold of her band; and the idea atruclr.
me, of pinching different parts of his body and limbs, taking, however,
the greatest care that the .mesmerisee, whose eyes, moreover, were
bandaged, should have no means of discovering on wbai parta.of lob.
SUPPLEMENT, 545
bend sur lesquelles je voulaia faire mes experiences, et dissiper
ainsi le reate de mon incredulite medicale ; maia, Amon grand
etonnement, je via que chaque fois que je lui froiaaai tel ou tel
point, du bras par exel)lple, Ia magnetisee, tout en exprimant
par les traits de sa figure ainsi que par Ia parole, Ia douleur
qu'elle eprouvait, porta automatiquement ]a main qui lui
etait restee libre AIa partie de son autre bras, exactement cor-
respondante acelle que je venaia de pincer sur le bras du meme
c:ote du magnetiseur.
Une foule d'autres faits, 11on moins curieux,mais trop longuea
adetailler, et dont M. Townshend eut Ia complaisance de me
rendre temoin, m'avaient, a Ia fin de Ia seance, procure une
telle somme de preuves irrefragable& sur les effets prodigieux
du magnetisme animal, que je me retirai pleinement con-
vaincu de tout ce que, ce soir JA, mes yeux m'avaient si mani-
festement fait voir.
A. vANDEVYVER, Dr.
Anvers, le 26 Fevrier, 1899.
Townshend's body I was making my experiments, and of thus dispel-
ling the remainder ofmy medical incredulity ; but, to my great asto-
nishment, I saw that each time I bruised any particular part, of his
arm for example, the mesmerisee expressed by her features, as well as
by her speech, the pain which she experienced, and involuntarily
carried the b~d which was at liberty to the part of her arm exactly
corresponding to that which I bad pinched on the mesmeriser'a arm
of the same side.
A host of other filets, not less curious, but too long to detail, and
which Mr. Townshend bad the kindness to atrord me an opportunity
of witnessing, furnished me, towards the end of the sitting, with such
an amount of undeniable proofs of the estrsordinary etrects of mes-
merism, that I retired fully convinced of all that I had so clearly seen
that evening.
A. VAlfD&vvv&a, Dr.
Antwerp, 26th February, 1899.
546 SUPPLEMENT.
TEBTIMONY TO MEIIIU!lBJS)[, BY M. VAN OwENBtTYSEN,
ANTWERP.
La eft'eta du magnetiame m'avaient toujours semble plus
que problematiques et incertains; je les avais souvent taxes
de cbimeriques, et ma prevention allait ai loin, que j'etais
presque convaincu que lea experiences magnetiquea etaient le
reaultat d'une entente parfaite de deux personnea complete-
ment eveilleea. Aujourd'hui, mieux conseille, et abdiquant lea
preventions d'un ignorant qui peut et ne veut s'instruire, j'ai
eu le bonheur de reconnaitre mea erreura, et de me convaincre
de nouveau que le jugement chez l'homme ne doit jamais
devancer lea preuvea.
Monsieur Hare Townshend ayant eu Ia bonte de m'inviter
8...une seance, dans laquelle il devait renouveller quelques ex-
periences sur le jeune E. A-, j'acceptai avec emprease-
ment, et je veux consigner en sortant de chez lui, et sons
!'impression de ce que je viens de voir, le resultat de cea ex-
periences aussi interessante& que reelles: en voici done un
fidele recit.
E. A-, decide ase soumettre al'infiuence de Monsieur
T&.&NSLATlO)(.
The efFects of mesmerism had always appeared to me more than
problematical and unce~in. I bad often treated them as chimerical,
and my prejudice went so far thst I was almost convinced that mes-
meric experiments were the result of a complete understanding beo
tween two persons perfectly awake; but now, being better advised,
and giving up the prepossessions of an ignorant person, who can, but
will not, be instructed, I have had the happiness of aeeing my errors,
and convincing myself anew that man's opinion ought never to precede
proofs.
Mr. Hare Townshend having had the kindness to give me an invita-
tion to a sitting at which he was to repeat some experiments on the
young E. A--, I eagerly accepted it, and, on leaving him, and
under the impression of what I have just seen, am anxious to record
the result of the experiments, which were as interesting as real :-be~e,
then, is a faithful account of them.
E. A-, having consented to submit himself to the inftuence of
SUPPLEMENT. 547
Townshend, s'assit a une heure moins huit minutes, et il se
releva somnambule aune heure moins deux minutes.
Je retracerai maintenant sans commentaires les diveraea ex-
periences qui ont eu lieu, en declarant que Monsieur TownB-
hend m'avait autorise d'indiquer et de faire toutes lea questions
et toutes les epreuves que moo imagination et ma curiosite
pouvaient me suggerer; j'ai largement use de cette facilite,
car je voulais me convaincre.
1o, Le magnetiseur prit un verre, le remplit de vin, et
demanda ce qu'il contenait; le magnetise repondit, sans hesi-
tation, "Du vin:" il en fut de meme pour un biscuit que
mangea le premier.
2o. Interroge par ou il voyait, E.'A-- repondit que c'etait
par le front; il reconnaissait tous lea assistants, et repondait a
toutes leurs questions, apres qu'il avait ete mis en rapport avec
eux; ce rapport ne s'opera que par la volonte du magnetiseur.
so. II lui fut presente un petit dessin de Kremers repre.
sentant un chien: il en indiqua le sujet aussitot qu'ill'eut en
main.-Ensuite un portrait de femme, qu'il declara ressembler
aMons. T--: c'etait celui de sa sreur!-Interroge s'il aurait
pu dire si cette dame existait encore, - reponse, " Non." -
En effet, elle etait morte.
Mr. Townshend, sat down at eight minutes before one o'clock, and at
two minutes before one go' up in a state of' sleepwaking.
I shall now describe, without comment, the different experiments
which were made, remarking that Mr. Townshend authorised me to
·suggest and put any questions, and make as many trials as my imagi-
nation or curiosity could prompt. I made great use ofthis permission,
for I wished to satisfy myself.
Ist. The mesmeriser took a glass, filled it with wine, and asked
what it contained ; the mesmerisee answered, without hesitation,
" Wine : " the same thing occurred with a biscuit which the former ate.
2d. When asked with what part he saw, E. A-- answered that it
was with the forehead be recognised all the bystanders, and answered
all their questions, after having been placed in relation with them.
This relation took place only thro~h the will ofthe mesmeriser.
sd. A small drawing ofa dog by Kremers was shown him : he de-
clared the subject of it as soon as be bad it in his hand. Then the por-
trait of a lady, which he said resembled Mr. T-- : it was that of
Mr. Townshend's sister I Being asked if he could say whether this
lady was sillllivinv,- answer, " No." -In filet, she was dead.
548 SUPPLEMENT.
¥. Je lui oft'ris rna montre, avec invitation de m'indiquer
l'heure : rna montre est aguichet. Il declara ne rien y com-
prendre. Une autre montre lui fut passee, et l'heure fut aus-
8itot indiquee avec justesse.
so. On lui presenta les fables de La Fontaine, edition illus-
tree par Grandville ; il eut de Ia peine a reconnaitre les
animaux personnUlees des gravures, et cela devait porter
confusion dans son imagination, mais il lut, sans hesiter un
seul instant, et le titre du livre et les numeros indicatifs
des fables ; il ne voulut cependant pas se donner la peine de
chercher a lire les fables memes; l'impression en etait trop
petite, disait-'il.
6o. J'ecrivis &On nom: ille lut, et rejetta le papier en disant,
"Ce n'est que mon nom." Un autre nom, inscrit par un autre
usistant, lui fut presente; ille lut alissi, mais en declarant qu'il
n'y reconnaissait pas mon ecriture. J'inscrivis un nouveau mot,
n reconnut rna main. Toutes les precedentes experiences ont
ete faites sans couvrir lea yeux et le front du magnetise ; ici
Monsieur T--Ies lui couvrit completement d·un mouchoir,
et les etonnantes epreuves suivantes eurent lieu.
7o. Conduit devant une glace, E. A-- declara se voir; re-
4th. I presented my watch to him, and desired him to tell the
hour. My watch is double-cased, with a small central glass. He
declared he could not understand it at all. Another watch was passed
to him, and immediately he told the hour correctly.
5th. The illustrated edition of the fables of La Fontaine, by Grand.
ville, was given him ; be could scarcely recognise the engravings of the
animals, and this might have confused his thoughts ; but he read,
without hesitating for an instant, both the title of the book, and the
numbers referring to the fables; yet he would not give himself the
trouble of trying to read the fables themselves : the impression, he
said, was too small
6th. I wrote his name ; he read it, and threw the paper away,
saying, "That is.only my name." Another name, written by another
bystaftder, was presented to him ; he read it also, declaring that he
did not recognise my writing in it. I wrote a new word, and be re-
cognised my hand. All the preceding experiments were made with-
out covering the eyes and forehead of the mesmerisee. Mr. T--
noy covered them completely with a handkerchief, and the following
astonishing facta took place : -
7th. Being led before a glass, E. A-- declared be saw himself:
SUPPLEMENT. 549
eonnut et designa, en Ies nommant succesaivement, Rna aucune
hesitation, Ies assistans qui vinrent l'entourer, en indiquantles
changements de leurs positions, et suivant du front tous leurs
mouvemens.
8°. Je pris rna bourse; je Ia serrai dans Ia main de maniere
ace qu'il ne put rien reconnaitre de ce que je tenais; il de-
clara cependant, apres un peu d'besitation, que c'etait rna
bourse, et qu'elle renfermait de I'argent. Je renouvellai cette
experience avec un morceau de pain ; il indiqua bien vague-
ment ce que je tenais, mais il ne parvint pas aIe preciser.
go, Le magnetiseur lui donna du papier de musique.
E. A-- compOR, avec un aplomb admirable, et sans hesiter,
deux diff'erens motifs de musique pour la ftute ; il les signa, et
lea executa sur son instrument, avec exactitude et precision.
11 offrit l'un de ces motifs a Monsieur T--, et l'autre a
moi. Je garde celui-ci comme un souvenir reel, irrevocable,
de cette interessant seance.
Pendant qu'il composoit, E. A-- repetait de Ia tete, du
pied et de Ia boucbe, tous les mouvemens d'une personne qui
compose et qui compte Ia mesure.
Le magnetise a ete reveille a3 h. 5 m. de relevee; il ne con-
he reeognised, pointed out, and namedthe bystanderssucce~~h·ely, with-
out any hesitation, mentioning the changes of their position, and fol-
lowing all their movements with his forehead.
8th. I took my purse, and squeezed it up in my hand in such
a manner that be could not tell what I was holding ; he declared,
nevertheless, after a little hesitation, that it was a purse, and that it
containedmoney. I repeated this experiment with a morsel ofbread;
he described very vaguely what I held, and could not arrive at a know-
ledge of the precise thing.
9tb. The mesmeriser gaTe him some musio paper. E. A-
composed with admirable accuracy, and without hesitation, two dif-
ferent air& for the flute; he signed them, and executed them on his
own instrument, with exactnessand preeision. Heoffered one ofth-
airs to Mr. T--, and the other to me. I keep it as a true and irr&-
't'ocable remembrance of that interesting sitting.
While he was composing, E. A-- made, with his bead, foot, and
mouth, all the mo't'ements of a person who is composing andcounting
the time.
The mesmerisee wu awakened at five minutes past three. Oa
550 SUPPLEMENT.
servait aucun souvenir apparent de ce qui a'etait paaae, ou de
ce qu'il avait fait pendant eon aomnambulisme.
JB..t.ll VAN 0WBIIBt7YSEN.
Am·ers, Mars, 1888.
waking he bad, apparently, no recollection of what had happened to
him, or of what be had done during his sleepwaking.
JuK V.ur Ow&'II'HVTS&M.
Antwerp, March, 18S8.
SUPPLEMENT. 551
TE&t'IIIONY. (MESHERIO VISION.) Da. FoiSBAO.
Vous etes plus heureux que moi; je n'ai rien ~crit depuia
un aiecle, tandis que vous, vous publiez un ouvrage sur Ie
magn~tisme, qui je n'en doute pas sera de nature a exciter a
Ia foia l'interet des savants et des gens du monde. Si toua
vos documena sont semblables aceux qui concernent le jeune
E. A--, ils feront certainement sensation. De toua les som-
nambules que j'ai vus, c'est l'un de ceux qui m'a plus attache,
et je dois dire ~tonne. C'est de grand cceur que je vais rappeler
quelques una des faita dont j'ai ~te temoin.
La vue sans le secour des yeux est l'un des phenomenes
que j'ai le plus rarement rencontres dans Ia pratique du mag-
netisme, aussi vous temoignai-je le vif desir de v~rifier par
moi-meme lea observations que voua aviez faites sur le
jeune E. A--.
Voua eutes Ia complaisance de le faire venir aParis le prin-
tems demier, et dans le peu de jours qu'il y resta, je pus
m'asaurer que vous n'aviez rien exager~ dans le r~cit que vous
m'aviez fait des etonnantes facultes de cet interessant som-
nambule. Je me rappelle parfaitement que dans les deux ou
T&ANSLATJON.
You are more fortunate than mysel£ I have written nothin~ for
an age, whereas you are publishing a work on mesmerism, wh1ch I
doubt not will interest both learned men and the public at large. Ir
all your documents are like those which relate to the young E. A-,
they will certainly create a sensation. Of all the sleepwakers that I
have seen, this is one of those who have the most interested, indeed I
ought to say astonished, me. It is with great pleasure that I proceed
to report some of the filets which I witnessed.
VISion, without the assistance of tbe eyes, is one of the phenomena
that I have the most rarely met with in the praotice of mesmerism ; you
therefore f~und me exceedingly desirous of verifying the observatiomr
that you had made on young E. A--.
You had the kindness to ~ring him to;Paris last spring, and, during
the few days that he· remamed, I was able to assure myself that you
had exaggerated nothing in the report that you bad made of the asto-
nishing faculty of that interesting aleepwaker. 1 rememb.r perfectly·
652 SUPPLEMEN'l\
trois ~ances ou je le via pendant le sommeil magnetique, noua
lui appliquames un bandeau sur lea yeux, nous bouchames tous
lea interstices avec des linges tina et du coton, de maniere a
empecher tout rayon lumineux de parvenir jusqu'a I'organe
viauel, et cependant, malgre ces precautions, E. A-- dia-
tinguait lea cartes qui lui etaient presentees, indiquait, sana
hesitation, dana un livre ouvert au hasard, Ia Jettre mlljuscule
qui commen~ait un cbapitre, le nombre des lignes d'une page,
et meme aIa fin il pouvait lire quelques phrases.
II n'avait pas toujours besoin de presenter le livre vis-a-via
des yeux; il lui arrivait souvent de placer I'objet soumis a
son exploration a Ia partie superieure du front, qui semblait
alors devenir l'organe de Ia viaion, et toutes lea indication•
etaient juates et precises. .
Chacun des aaaiatants voulait ason
tour faire une experience; sans le prevenir, et sans contact
aucun, on lui presentait une carte aquelques pouces du som-
met de Ia tete ; E. A- levait brusquement le bras pour
aaiair Ia carte, et jamaia sa main ne portait afaux.
Une fois, quelqu'un promenait sans rieu dire le journal
rEntre-acte derriere Ia tete du jeune somnambule, et celui-ci
dit, " C'eat rEntre-acte." II indiqua ausai l'heure de ma
·that, at the two or three sittings when I saw him during the mesmeric
sleep, we applied a band~ over his eyes, we stopped up all the
interstices with fine linen and cotton, in such a manner as to prevent
a single ray of light from arriving at his visual organs ; and yet, not-
withstanding these precaution..., E. A-- distinguished the cards
which were presented to him, and pointed out, without hesitstion, in a
book opened at random, the capital letter which commenced the chap-
ter, the number of lines in a page, and even towards the end be could
read eome passages.
It was not always necessary to place the book opposite his eyes ; he
frequently placed the object submitted to his inspection at the upper
part of his forehead, which seemed then to become the organ of vision,
and all his remarks were just and acute. Each of the bystanders in hia
tum made an experiment. Without any hint, and without any coo-
tact, each placed a eard at the distance of a few inches from the top of
his bead ; E. A-- abruptly raised his arm to seize the card, and bia
kand never missed its aim.
Once, eomebody, without saying anything, presented the journal
Entre-acte behind the bead of the young sleepwaker, and be said,
" That ia rEntre-aeU." He a1eo told the hour by my wateh, and
SUPPLEMENT. 553
montre, et il renouvela cette epreuve avec le meme auccea,
~rsque fen eus adessein derange les aiguilles. Ainsi je ne
doute pas E. A-- voyait aIa fois par toutes les parties de Ia
ti!te; ile levait de son siege, courait avec vitesse, evitant tres.-
bien les obstacles, et atteignant le but qu'il se proposait.
En finissant cette courte relation, je ne veux pas omettre l'un
des faits de vision qui me frappa le plus vivement chez ce
aomnambule. Sur Ia table acote de laquelle il etait assis, il y
avait une multitude de verres diversement calories ; E--
en saisit un, le porte aIa partie superieure du front en faisant
le geste d'une personne qui regarde avec un lorgnon, et dit
ausaitot, "Je vois tout bleu.'' C'etait en effet un verre de
cette couleur dont il faisait usage.
FoxssAc.
Paris, le 18 Mars, 1889.
repeated this proof with the same success when I had intentionally
altered the bands. I have consequently no doubt that E. A-- saw
at once with all parts of his bead: be rose from his seat, ran quickly,
avoiding obstacles very well, and reached the place he intended.
In concluding this short account, I cannot omit one of the facts of
vision which struck me most forcibly in this sleepwaker. On the
table, by the side of which he was sitting, there were a number of dif-
ferent coloured glasses ; E-- took one, raised it to the upper
part of his forehead, imitating the action of a person looking with an
e;reglaas, and immediately said, " I see all blue." It was in fact a
glass of that colour that he had taken up.
Fow&c.
Paris, 18th March, 1889.
BB
554 SUPPLEMENT.
T&sTDtONY BT VIscouNT N-, RELATIVE TO KEBIIJ:RIC
VIsiON (B•FOBE E. A- wAs FAB .lDVANCJ:D IN P&a-
CEPTJON).
0l'f the 26th July, 1838, I BBW E. A- to all intents and
purpotea asleep, hia eyes quite abut, and his countenance quite
in keeping with thia state. To make sure of his not seeing,
aupposing he was shamming (I say this for security, not that
I doubted his being asleep), I bandaged his eyes with a large
silk handkerchief; to make more sure, the apace between hia
nose and the temples was filled with cotton ; and then, and
not till then, cards were produced, and be played a game of
" beggar my neighbour" with Mr. Townshend. Notwith-
standing all Mr.- and I did by pincbingE-, and talking
and Jaughing, he never made a mistake, and always detected
Mr. Townshend's faults without the least hesitation, but ex-
actly as if his eyes were as unincumbered as those of the rest
of the party. The next day I BBW E. A- put into the
same state of sleepwaking. I then went into an armoire,
about five feet high, and just room enough for two persons to
stand in. The door was shut, that I might be satisfied there
was no light admitted. When I came out, Mr. Townshend
took E--in, and I gave them difFerent cards, some of which
E-- read ; also some letters on separate bits of paper; then,
for fear he might get time to see while the door was opened
to give in the cards, I wrote on a piece of paper, dog, cat, or
some such word, and drew a monster figure, and folded up the
paper like a note. He could not read the words, but men-
tioned most of the letters, and their position on the paper, and
laughed at the figure, but could not make it out ; this was
enough to prove be saw in the dark. I afterwards took a card
ofF the table, without seeing it myself, or letting any one else
see it. I presented the back ofit to tM back of hi8 head; be
said " he could not read it so:" it was a French card, all over
little stamped flowers, or other marks. I then turned it8 face
to the back of hi8 head, and he told me what it was. I par-
ticularly remarked the change of his countenance from a tired
SUPPLEMENT. 555
heavy look to his usual cheerfulness, on waking. E. A-
has told me cards placed in or ahut up in a book. I have also
seen him write music, nib his pen, put his flute together, and
play as well as usual in a state of aleepwaking.
VJSOOVNT-.
Rome, lUh Fellruary', 1889.
'
B B ~
556 SUPPLEMENT.
TEITJJ(ONY (MEBIIERIO VutoN, ETc.) BY THE BARON DIJ
CARLOWIZ. BERNE, 1838.
Conformement a Ia plus atricte verite, je, 10118Signe, atteste
le fait suivant:-
Mr. Hare Townshend avait chez lui un jeune bomme,
d'environ 16 ana, qu'ilanit magnetise depuis quelque tems, et
qui aetrouvait, ace quej'avais oui dire,en etat de claH-voyance.
Quoique j'eusse lu pluaieurs ouvrages sur ce sujet, et bien que
Mr. Townshend qui, ennemi de toute sorte de charlatanisme,
ae distingue par une emdition profonde autant que par Ia verite
de son caractere, m'inspirat de Ia confiance, mon incredulite
a l'egard des merveilles du magnetisme animal etait nean-
moina encore assez grande.. C'est pourquoi je resolus d'ap.
porter une attention minutieuse a tout ce que je verrais pendant
que ce jeune bomme serait en sommeil magnetique. Mr.
Townshend l'y mit en rna presence. L'operation meme ne
durait que dix minutes, et le magnetiseur usait de peu de ma-
nipulations, qui pourtant fail!lient une impression tres-visible
sur le magnetise. Celui.ci eut enfln lea yeux fermes, et re-
pondit aux questions qu'on lui faiasit par l'entremise de son
TaANSLATJON.
In conformity with the strictest truth, I, the undersigned, attest
the following facts:-
Mr. Hare Townshend had at his house a young man, about sixteen
years of age, whom he had mesmerised for some time, and who had
become, as I was told, clair-IXJ!Iant. Although I had read several
works on this subject, and Mr. Townshend, who is opposed to every
kind of charlatanism, and distinguished by profound erudition, as weD
as by truth of character, inspired me with confidence, my incredulity in
respect to the wonders of mesmerism was still very great. I therefore
resolved to give close attention to every thing I might see during the
time this young man remained in the mesmeric sleep. Mr.Townshend
sent him to sleep before me. The operation continued only ten mi-
nutes, and the mesmeriser made but few manipulations, which, never-
theless, produced a very visible impression on the mesmerised. His
eyes at length became closed, and he answered questions which we
SUPPLEMENT. 557
inegnetiaeur. II distinguait tous Jes objects eomme s'il avait
lea yeux ouverts, ee qui m'etonnait fort peu, pareeque je n'etais
pas encore delivre de mes anciens soup\!ons.
· Par eette raison j'etais bien curieux d'observer des preuves de
clair-voyance apres que ee jeune bomme flit mis dans l'impossi-
bilite parfaite et incontestee d'ouvrir lea paupieres. Pour cet
effet on alla lui bander les yeux. Ayant d'abord bien examine
le mouchoir qui devoit servir de bandage, je eontribuai mon
possible pour le bien appliquer et aerrer, et afin qu'aucun vide
ne restat entre le bandage et lea paupierea, ce qui lui aurait
permis de lever lea yeux, on y mit du coton. Mais je fus bien
surpris lorsqu'il voyait, malgre ees appareils, aussi-bien qu'au-
paravant. Je choisis parmi un grand nombre de livres qui se
trouvaient dans le salon, et designai les passages qu'il devait
lire, ce qu'il exeeutait avec vitesse, et sans se tromper. II
voyait aussi une petrifaction que j'avais saisie clandestinement,
et que je tenais dans la main serree. On lui montrait derriere
Ia tete, et aplusieurs reprises, retui qui renfermait II& flute, et
ils'appercevait toujours si la fl~te y etait, ou si on I'en avait
otee.
J'ai assiste deux fois a l'acte ou Mr. Townshend magne·
put to him through the medium of the mesmeriser. He distinguiabed
every object as if be bad his eyes open, which surprised me very
little, for I was not yet freed from my old suspicions.
For this reason I \\'as very curious to obsene the proo& of clair-
"Ofance, after the young man was so placed that it was perfectly and
incontestably impossible for him to open his eyelids. For this pur-
pose we proceeded to bandage the eyes. Having first carefully ex-
amined the handkerchief which was to sene as a bandage, I did all
I could to apply it efFectually and fix it ; and, to prevent any space
from beingleft between the bandage and the eyelids, which would allow
him to open his eyes, it was stopped with cotton. But I was much
surprised when be saw, notwithstanding these bandages, as well as
before. I chose a book from among a great number that were in the
room, and pointed out passages for him to read. This be did with
rapidity, and without mistake. He also saw a petrifaction which I
had taken secretly, and held in my closed band. We repeatedly
showed him behind his bead the case which contained his tlute, and
he always perceived whether the tlute was there, or had been taken
a....ay.
I was twice present when Mr. Townshend mesmerised this young
B B 3
b68 SUPPLEMENT.
usait ce jeiUle homme, et j'ai fait apeu pres lea memes re~
marques. La BeCODde foi1, Mr. Townshend lui bands lee yeux
dana Ia maniere indiquee avant de le magn~tiser. Du reate,
il m'a paru que le magn~tiae faisait toua ces experimena avec
une certaine repugnance, et qu'il aurait plutotpr~fere de retlller
dana une situation tranquille et paaaive, attache aIOD magne-
tiseur.
En foi de quoi, j'aimuni le present c:ertiflcat dema signature.
GuBT.&VE ADoLPHE, BARON DE C.&aLOWis.
Berne, le IS Fm. 1899.
man, and I made nearly tbe same observations. On the ~nd oc-
casion, Mr. ToWI18hend bandaged his eyes in the manner described
before mesmeriaing bim.
It appeared to me that the -meriaee submitted to all these expe-
riments with an erident repugnance, and that he would have preferred
remaining in a tranquil and passive situation cl01e to his mesmerl.er.
In testimony to which, I have signed the present certificate with
my name.
GUSTAVE ADOLPHE, BAEO!f DE CARLOWIZ.
Berne, lSth February, 1839.
SUPPLEMENT. b59
T&8TIMOlfY TO MESMEBJ8JI. BY A FRIEND.
Credo versus Non-credo.
« I THINK myself justified in suspending my assent to the
facts related of mesmerism," said I one day to my friend
C--, " till some opportunity of observing them in propria
persona shall offer itself."
" You shall have that opportunity this very morning," he
replied ; "and it will be the best answer I can give to your
arguments.'' So aaying, C-- proceeded to an adjoining
room, taking with him a youth about fifteen years of age,
whom he had been in the habit of mesmerising for some weeks
past ;:he told me to remain where I was till he should. call
me. .In about twenty minutes C- called. On entering,
I found them sitting fJi8-d-IM; C-- held a book in his
hand, and a pack of cards was placed by his side ; the boy
(whose name was E. A--) had his eyes tightly bandaged
with a pocket-handkerchief, which nearly enveloped his face.
I was struck with the .change which so short an interval had
wrought in them both; the meameriser looking rather wild
and exhausted, whilst the patient before him, without seeming
exactly asleep, yet had an air of such perfect resignation,
abandonment, and even prostration, as made me think that be
was without consciousneu, and that some great, and to me
unknown, influence was operating upon him. c- then
tOok up a card at hazard, begging me to observe accurately
that be held it with its back always turned towards E. A--,
and placing it behind a large octavo, he turned it again with
its face towards E. A-, keeping the open volume exactly
between it and the bandage. I positively affirm that there
was no possibility of the boy's seeing the card during its whole
progress, or of his being auisted either by the direction of
light, or any mirror opposite. Now came the critical moment,
and I had no doubt whatever of convincing my friend that he
had been living under a delusion. c- asked his waking-
sleeper, or somnambule (as they term it), to tell him the
number and suit of the card- to me the most unreasonable
question possible, considering A--'s state of incapacity.
The latter, without seeming to relish this request, bent a little
B B 4 .
560 SUPPLEMENT.
forward, ao u to bring his forehead nearly opposite the back
of the book; but l'ftllained silent, till, on C--'s gently
chiding him for his slowness, he named the card quite cor-
rectly, to my no small astonishment and utter confusion, hav-
ing kept strict watch the whole time to see that the experiment
wu properly conducted.
Without betraying my thoughts, I then asked my friend to
repeat the experiment, and selected a card which he himself
did not know. Upon this the patient showed signs of great
uneasiness, and complained of fatigue. I took care that the
same precautions should be taken. The Bleepwaker, this time,
showed a little obstinacy, declaring be could not tell that card,
as he was sure it would be followed by another ; and in this
he guessed rightly. The mesmeriaer, however, becoming a
little furious, urged his patient to tell the card instantly, as a
third person was present for the express purpose of witnessing
the experiment and makintt a report of it to a learned society.
Upon this the patient turned full towards me, and looked as
if he could stare at me through his bandage ; then he said
that be could not see very clearly, but thought the card was
the N of spades. In this, however, he was mistaken, it
being the eight of spades ; but the approximation was too
great to admit of my expressing any disappointment at this
failure. I therefore only begged for a third trial, beginning
now to feel a most lively interest, in spite of my previous in-
credulity, in what was taking place before me. C-- con.
sented; so pulling out a card from the middle of the pack, I
carried it unseen, with its face downwards, to the book, and
carefully turned it ; and after holding it there a few seconds,
C-- &!!ked E. A- to tell him the card accurately. "The
ten of clubs," cried the latter, with a tone of confidence and
triumph that might have confounded a greater sceptic than
myself; - that was indeed the card that C-- held in his
hand!!
What could I say to this ? To doubt any longer would be
doubting my own senses, - would, in short, be madness, for
I could in no way justify my doubts ; yet to believe, on the
other band, would be another kind of madness, unless saying
that I witnessed a person name a card which was intercepted
by a solid opaque substance deserves to be called by any
other name.
SUPPLEMENT. 561
" The deuce is in it if you are not convinced now," said
my friend, turning about, and displaying a viBBge truly Me-
phistophelian.
" I am convinced that the deuce is in it, that'a all," cried
I ; and forthwith tried to make my escape, but I found the
door locked.
" Will you have the goodneBB to wait a few minutea
longer?" said C--, still insulting me by a look of the most
cruel BBtisfaction.
" 'Vill you have the goodness to let me out of this illusive
atmosphere? I will have none of it,"-I retorted.
" Come this way, then," said he, opening a door, through
which I hurried, bent only on my escape. He locked it upon me,
and left me, not as I had hoped to find myself, in the garden,
but in a dark, narrow, dismal closet, darker than the darkeat
corner of a dungeon.
« What do you see in there?" ironically asked my tor-
mentor.
'" Blue spirits and white;
Black spirits and grey,'-
all the spirits of darkness," I exclaimed.
"You see no spirits of LIGHT, then, it seems?"
" No ! " groaned I: «let me out."
Satisfied with my answer, C-- opened the door, and
wished to make me believe that his sleepwaker could SEE in
that place.
Having consented to witneas this new experiment, C--
took the boy A-- into the closet. I handed the former
some cards, unknown to him, which he held in his baud, con-
cealed from E. A--, till I had locked and leant against the
door. This being duly accomplished, I desired that one of
the cards should be presented to the patient. It was done,
and in about one minute he named the card, CON'ectly, and with..
out the slighteat hesitation. My astonishment, notwithstanding,
was as great as ever. " What ! " thought I ; " was I to be thus
ousted out of my conviction, that mesmerism was a thorough
humbug- a system of refined deception, (this was the straw
to which I vainly clung,) of the most puerile buffoonery, of
the loweat, most shameful, vulgar, highway charlatanism ? "
B B 5
562 SUPPLEMENT.
ADd yet how could I avoid the humiliation of beiug at leugth
c:on'finced, after 10 long, obstinate, and, aa I thought, rational
a resistance. As a laat hope, I determined to re-enter the
cloeet, and investigate more cloeely. I did so, and the door
waa locked upon me. At flrst there seemed to flit before my
eyes the indistinct forms of objects, which had attracted my
notice in the room ; these impreesions became gradually
fainter, till at length I waa enveloped in perfect darkness; all
endeavour to see the cards I had taken with me waa fruitlea.
I poked into every comer, strained to catch the alighteet ray
of light, but it waa almost genuine darknees- impenetrable
obscurity to Of'diMry vision. I waa glad to be liberated, and
to let the meemeriser and his aleepwaker take my place. I
now waited in actual fea,., lest the cards should be again dis-
covered by E. A--, and stood listening in cruel suspense.
After a few minutes the aleepwaker cried out that he held in
his hand the knave of spades. On opening the door, I found
that it waa so. This experiment was repeated th'f'ee times
liUccessfully ; and I waa at length obliged to congratulate my
friend on the dexterity shown by his clai'f'-wyant pupil ; but
I felt ashamed of using the term in a sense so different to that
I bad always attached to it, more especially when I remem-
bered my scoffing incredulity of that very morning, which
nolhing but the most genuine and convincing proofs could
have caused to give way.
D. C.
Berne, 1838.
SUPPLEMENT. 568
TEttiMONY RELATivE TO MESMERIC VmoN. Bv Da. WILD,
OP BERNE, WHEN E. A-- BAD GREATLY .ADVANCED
IN OL.AIR-VOYANCE.
J'.ArrEsrE par la presente d'avoir assiste, le 27 Sept. 1838,
a des experiences magnetiques, faites, par Monsieur Hare
ToWIIshend, sur Ia personne d'E. A--, age de 15 ans, ne a
Boom, en Belgique, muaicien distingue.
Quoique convaincu de I'existence de l'influence morale d'une
personne sur une autre, que l'on nommjl ordinairement mag-
netisme animal, tant par des propres experiences sur mes rna-
lades, que par la complaisante amitie de feu M. Deleuze, a
Paris, je voulus pourtant proceder dans cette occasion comme
incredule. Pour m'assurer personnellement de la realite des
faits, je fis les experiences suivantes: -
1°. Je m'assis sur une chaise, tournant ledos aIa fenetre,
et me fls mettre sur Ia tete deux serviettes de toile epaisse,
qui me pendaient autour du corps jusqu'aux hanches; ces
serviettes m'empecherent de voir ma main, que je passai plu-
aieurs fois devant mes yeux; je n'en distinguai rien du tout.
2°. Je me fls fermer les yeux par lea mains de M. Town1-
Ta&NSLATION.
1 hereby certify to haTing been present, on the 27th of September,
1838, at some mesmeric experiments made by Mr. Hare Townshend
on the person of E. A--, aged fifteen years, bom at Boom, in Bel-
gium, a distinguished musician.
Although convinced of the moral influence of one person over an-
other, which is commonly called animal magnetism, as much by my
own experiments upon my patients, as by the kindness of the late M.
Deleuze, at Paris, I wished, nevertheless, to proceed on this occasion
as if incredulous. To assure myself personally of the reality of the
facts, I made the following experiments :-
1. I sat down in a chair, with my back to the window, and put
upon my head two thick napkins, which hung around my body as
low as the hips; these napkins prevented me from seeing my hands,
which I passed several times before my eyes. I could not distinguish
them at all.
2. I had my eyes closed by 1\lr. Townshend's hands, either by his
B B 6
b64 SUPPI.EMENT.
bend, aoit par les doigts sene., aoit par 1a pomme de ses mains,
et mes yeux ne distinguerent rien du tout. M. Townshend
p~, avec le meme rtlsultat sur mes yeux, deux petits gobelets
en porcelaine (qui aervent pour baigner lea yeux) remplis de
coton.
8°. Je me fls enfermer dans une armoire vide, et, malgre
mes recherches, je ne pus decouvrir aucune ouverture, qui
aurait laisse entrer un seul rayon de lumiere. ·
Nous fimes alors entrer le jeune A--. M. Townshend
le mit en sommeil magnetique, et lui adressa quelques ques-
tions pour me convaincre de son isolement magnetique. Je
lui dis inopinement atres-haute voix quelques mots, mais le
calme parfait de sa mine me prouva assez, qu'il n'en entendit
rien du tout. Quelques minutes apres, je me mis en· rapport
avec lui, et depuis ce moment il me repondit toujours. Je
l'assis, et lui posai les memes deux serviettes sur Ia tete, de 1a
meme maniere qu'A moi-meme un quart d'heure avant. Je lui
donnai dans Ia main un carte A jeu, que je tirai moi-meme
d'un jeu, place sur une tsble deux pas de distance de nous;-
apres l'avoir tenue quelques moments dans Is hauteur du front,
de sorte que Ia plaine de Ia carte formait avec 1a partie supe-
fingers, brought into close contact with each other, or by the palm•
of his hands, and my eyes could discern nothing. Mr. Townshend
placed two small porcelain eye-goblets, such aa are used for bathing
the eyes, filled with cotton, on my eyes with the same effect,
s. I allowed myself to be shut up in an empty wardrobe, and,
notwithstanding every effort, I could not discover any opening which
would allow a single ray ofligbt to enter.
Young A-- was then brought in. Mr. Townshend threw him
into mesmeric sleep, and put some questions to him for the purpose 'I
of convincing me of his mesmeric insulation. I suddenly addressed
a few words to him in a very loud voice; but the perfect quietude of
his countenance fully conTinced me that be heard nothing. Some
minutes afterwards I placed myself in relation with him, and from
that moment he invariably answered me. I set him down, and placed
the same two napkins on his head just as they had been placed on
myself a quarter of an hour before. I gave him a playing card which
I had myself taken from a pack lying on a table at two paces distant
from us. After holding it a few moments to the top of his forehead,
10 that the :flat surface of the card formed with the upper part of his
SUPPLEMENT. 565
rieure de son front un angle d'a peu pres quarante-cinq degres,
il me dit exactement lea couleurs et figures imprimees dessous;
je cbangeai trois foia Ia carte avec une autre, avec 1~ meme
resultat satiafaiaant.
Alors je pria un livre, ouvrai une page, et lui iudiquai avec
le doigt une ligne qu'il devai\ lire, ce qu'il fit avec Ia meme
facilite ; je lui preaentai un volume d'un autre ouvrage, avec
le meme reaultat. Apres lui avoir ote lea aerviettes, M.
Townshend lui ferma les yeux avec lea mains, et plus tant
avec lea gobelets a bains d'yeux, remplia de coton, exacte-
ment de Ia meme maniere comme ill'avait fait amoi; et Ie
jeune A--lisait dans lea livres, et distingua les cartes ajeu
que je lui preaentai, et que je tirai toujours au hazard d'un
jeu de cartes complete. Je l'enfermai enfin dans Ia meme
armoire ; il ne s'y trouvait qu'une robe de chambre; il s'y
assit dans un coin, me pria de Ia bien envelopper avec Ia robe
de chambre, disant que plus il y avait obscurite complete
autour de lui, mieux il pourrait voir, puisque Jes rayons de
lumiere partirent de son cerveau. Je lui donnai trois autrea
cartes ajell, je fermai !'armoire aclef, et boucbaile trou de Ia
clef avec la pomme de rna main ; dans peu de temps il me
nomma les cartes. Alors M. T. me pria d'ecrire quelque
forehead an angle of nearly forty-five degrees, he told me exactly the
colours and figures printed on its underside ; I changed the card for
auotber three times, aad always with the same satisfactory result. I
then took a book, opened a page, and pointed out a line which I wished
him to read. This he did with the same facility. I then gan him
a volume of another work with the same result. After having removed
the napkins, Mr. Townshend closed his eyes with his hands, and after-
wards with the goblets for bathing the eyes, filled with cotton, ex-
actly in the same manner as he had done to me; and young A--
read the boeks, and distinguished each playing card which was pre-
~nted to him, and which I took always at random from a complete
pack. I then shut him up in the same wardrobe, in which there wu
nothing but a morning-gown. He sat down in a comer, and begged
me· to cover him up well with the morning-gown, saying that, the
more complete the darkness around him, the better he could see, be-
cause the rays of light came off from his brain. I gave him three
other playing cards, and locked him up in the closet, stopping the
key-hole with the palm of my hand ; in a short time he told me the
cards. Mr. Townshend then begged me to write something on paper.
566 SUPPLEMENT.
chose sur un papier. Je m'eloignai dana un autre coin de
Ia chambre, et j'ecrivia sur un moreeau de papier epaia-
" Voua etea complaisant aujourd'hui." Je pliai le papier deux
foia, le lui donnai, et fermai vite de Ia meme maniere I'armoire
et le trou de Ia clef. Quoique le premier mot lui etait bien
Rouveau, ille lut exactement, ainai que le reate du billet.
Sorti de I'armoire, je le priai de lire avec I'occiput. (Jusqu'a-
Iora, il avoit toujoura tenu lea cartes et livrea de la maniere
decrite ci-de118118 dennt le front.) Je melai le jeu de cartes,
l'etendai sur une table eJoignee de quelques pas de lui, en ayant
10in que le oote imprime aoit tourne vera la table. E. A-
a'approeha alora de Ia table, en marcbant areculons, prit une
carte, Ia pla~a sur son occiput, et Ia nomma, en tournant tou·
joura le dos aIa table d'ou il l'avoit prise. Je trouve superflu
de dire, que M. Townshend magnetisait le jeune A-- de
temps en temps, entre lea differentea experiences, pour entre-
tenir Ia clair-voyance.
Si jamais experiences magnetiques ont ~te faites avec ex-
actitude et mefiance, je crois que I'on peut mettre celles-ei en
premiere ligne.
Ca.u. WILD, Docteur Medecin.
Berne, 10 Fevrier, 1839.
I went away into another corner of the room, and wrote on a slip of
thick paper-" You are obliging to-day." I folded the paper twiee,
gave it him, and quickly closed the closet and the key-hole in the
118Dle manner. Although the first word was quite new to him, he
read it correctly, as well as the rest of the note.
On coming out of the closet, I begged him to read with the back
of his head (for hitherto he had always held the cards and books before
his forehead in the manner above described). I mixed the pack of
cards, and spread them on a table a few paces distant from him, taking
care that the printed side should be turned towards the table. E. A--
then approached tlte table, walking backwards, took a card, placed it
on the back of his head, and named it, keeping his back constantly
to'll'8rds the table whence he had taken it. It is unnecessary to say,
that Mr. Townshend mesmerised young A-- from time to time,
between the different experiments, to keep up the lucidity.
If ever mesmeric experiments were made with accuracy and dis-
trust, I believe that these may be placed in the first rank.
Ca.a.uas WILD, Doctor of Medicine.
Berne, lOth February, 1839.
SUPPLEMENT. 567"
AooovNT or SENSATIONS UNDER MJ:SHERI811. Bv Paorzs-
SOR AaA18J8, or NEUI'CBATEL, SwiTZEBLAND.
Notu relatitJU au Magnitilme Animal, 22 Fevrier, 1889,
au matin.
DUireux de aavoir aquoi m'en tenir sur le magnetisme
animal, je recherchai depuis long-temps 1'occasion de faire
des e:rperiences a ce sujet sur moi-meme, afin d'eviter let
doutes qui pouriaient exister sur Is nature des sensations que
1'on entend rapporter par des personnes magnetisees. M. Desor,
dans une course qu'il fit a Berne, engagea bier M. Towns-
hend, qui l'avait magnetise anterieurement, a l'accompagner
a Neuchatel, et a tenter de me magnetiser. Ces messieurs
arriverent bier par le courrier du soir, et me fl.rent prevenir.
A buit beures j'etaia aupres d'eu:r. Nous soupames juaqu'a
neuve beures et demie, puis vera dix beures M. Townshend
commen~a a operer sur moi. Asais vis-A-vis l'un de l'autre,
il ne fit d'abord que me prendre lea mains en me regardant
fixement. J'etais fermement resclu aarriver a Ia connaissance
de Ia verite, quelle qu'elle fut; auasi le moment ouje vis qu'il
Notu relating to Mumwima, tlae morni"g of22d February, 1859.
Desirous of knowing what to think of mesmerism, I for a long
time sought for(an opportunity ofmaking some experiments in regard
to it upon myself, so as to avoid the doubts which might arise on the
nature of the aensations which we have heard described by mesmerised
persons. M. Dellor, yesterday, in a visit which he made to Beme,
invited Mr. Townshend, who bad previously mesmerised him, to ac-
company him to NeuchAtel and try to mesmeriae me. These gen-
tlemen arrived here with the eveuing courier, and informed me of
their arrinl. At eight o'clock I went to them. We continued at
IUpper till half past nine o'clock, anci about ten Mr. Townsend com-
menced operating on me. While we aat opposite to one another, he,
in the first place, only took hold of my hands and looked at me fix-
edly. I was firmly resolved to arrive at a knowledge of the truth,
whatever it might he; and, therefore, the moment I saw_him endea-
568 SUPPLEMENT.
tentait d'exercer une action sur moi, eut-il quelque chose de
solennel ; je m'addreeaai en silence aI'Auteur de toutes choses,
pour lui demander de me donner Ia force de resister aI'entraine-
ment, d'etre consciencieux ~is-a-~is de moi-meme comme
vis-a-~is des faits; puis je regardais M. Townshend, attentif
a ce qui se passait. J'etais dans une position tres.commode;
l'beure peu avancee, a laquelle j'ai l'babitude de travailler,
etait loin de me disposer au eommeil; j'etais assez maitre de
moi pour n'eprouver aucune emotion, et pour reprimer tout
elan d'imagination ei j'euue ete moine calme. Aussi fus-je
assez longtemps sans eprouver aucun eff'et de Ia presence vis-
a-vis de moi de M. Townshend. Cependant, apPeS un quart
d'heure au moins, je sentis comme un couraut dans tous rues
membree, et des ce moment rna paupiere s'appesantit. Je vis
alors M. Townshend tendre ses deux mains devant mes yeux,
comme s'il eut voulu y enfoncer ses doigts, puis operer divers
mouvemens circulairee autour de mea yeux, qui m'appesan-
tissaient toujours plus lea paupieres. J'avais par devers moi
]e sentiment qu'il cberchait a me faire fermer les yeux, et
cependant ce n'etait point comme si l'on eut menace mea
yeux aI'etat de veille, et que je lea eusse fermes pour eviter
un attoucbement ; c'etait un poids insurmontable des paupieres
vouring to esert an action upon me, I silently addressed the Author
of all things, beseeching him to give me power to resist the influence,
and to be conscientious in regard to myo~elf as well as in regard to the
facts. I then fised my eyes upon Mr. Townshend, attentive to what.
"ver passed. I was in very suitable circumstances; the hour being
early, ~tnd one at which I was in the habit of studying, was far from
disposing me to sleep. I was sufficiently master of myself to esperi-
ence no emotion, and to repress all flights of imagination, even if I
had been less calm; accordingly it was a long time before I felt any
effect from the presence of Mr. Townshend opposite me. However,
after at least a quarter of an hour, I felt a sensation of a current
through all my limbs, and from that moment my eyelids grew heavy. I
then saw Mr. Townshend extend his hands before my eyes, as ifhe were
about to plunge his fingers into them; and then make different cir-
cular movements around my eyes, which caused my eyelids to become
still heavier. I had the idea that he was endeavouring to make me
close my eyes; and yet it was not as if some one bad threaten"d my
eye-. and, in the waking stste, I had closed them to prevent him.; it
was an irresistible heaviness of the lids which compelled me to shut
SUPPLEMENT. 569
'lui :me les faisait elore, et peu apeu je aentis que je n'avais
plus Ia force de lea tenir ouverts; maia je n'en conservaia pas
moina la conscience de ce qui se p888Bit autour de moi; ainsi
j'entendais M. Desor parler aM. Townshend, je eomprenaia
ce qu'ils ae disaient, j'entendais ce qu'ila me demandaient
comme etant eveille, mais je n'avais pas Ia force d'y repondre.
J'e888yai plusieurs foia inutilement de le faire, et lorsque j'y
parvenais, je sentaia que je aortais de l'etat de torpeur ou je
m'etais trouve, et qui m'etait plurot agreable que penible.
Dans cet etat, j'entendisle guet crier dix heures,puis sooner
dix heures et quart ; maia plus tard je me trouvais dans un
aommeil plus profond, quoique je n'aie jamais perdu entiere-
ment connaiasance. J'avaiale sentiment que M. Townshend
cberchait a m'endormir completement; mes mouvemens me
paraissaient lui etre aoumia, carje voulus plusieurs fois changer
la position de mes bras, sans avoir saaez de force pour le faire
ou pour le vouloir reellement, tandis que je sentais ma tete se
porter adroite ou agauche sur mon epaule, et en arriere ou
en avant, sans que je le voulusse, et meme malgre la resistance
que je cberchais aopposer, et cela aplusieurs reprises.
J'eprouvais meme un sentiment de grand bien-etre aceder
them ; and, by degrees, I found that I bad no longer the power of
keeping them open, but did not the less retain my consciousness of
what was going on around me; so that I heard M. Desor speak to
Mr. Townsend, understood what they said, and heard what questions
they asked me, just as if I bad been awake, but I had not the power
of answering. I endeavoured in vain several times to do 10, and,
when I succeeded, I perceived that I was passing out of the state of
torpor in which I had been, and which was rather agreeable than
painful.
In this state I beard the watehman cry ten o'clock ; then I heard
it strike a quarter past; but, afterwards, I fell into a deeper sleep,
although I never entirely lost my consciousness. It appeared to me,
that Mr. Townsend was endeavouring to put me into a sound sleep;
my movements seemed under his control, for I wished several times
to change the position ofmy arms, but had not sufficient power to do
it, or even really to will it ; while I felt my head carried to the right
or left 9houlder, and backwards or forwards, witboutl wishing it,
and, indeed, in spite of the resistance which I endeavoured to
oppose : and this happened several times.
I experienced at the same time a feeling of great pleasure in giving
b70 SUPPLEMENT.
al'attrait qui m'entrainait tantot d'un cote, tantOt d'un autre;.
puis une sorte de surpriae a sentir ma tete tomber dana la
main de M. Townshend, qui me paraiBBait des-lora la cause
de cette attraction. A sa question si j'etais bien, ce que
j'eprouvais, je senti& que je ne pouvais pas repondre, mais je
souris; je sentsis que mon visage s'epanouiBBait malgremare·
aistsnce; j'etsis interieurement confus d'eprouver du bien-e~
d'une influence qui m'etait occulte. Des-lora j'aurais voulu
me reveiller, j'etais moins al'aise, et eependant sur Ia question
de M. Townshend, si je voulsis m'eveiller, jefis un mouvement
d'hesitation des epaules. Alora M. Townshend fit de nouveau
quelques frictions qui me rendormirent davantage.; cependaot
j'etais toujours sachant de ce qui se passait autour de moi.
Puis U me demanda si je voulais devenir clsir-voyant, tout en
continuant ses frictions de Ia figure aux bras, que je sentais.
J'eprouvais alora un sentiment indeftnissable de joie, et un in-
stant je vis devant moi comme une gerbe de lumiere eblouis-
sante qui disparut au moment meme. Je fus alora attriste
interieurement de ce que cet etst se prolongeait ; il me semblait
qu'on en avait assez fait avec moi; j'aurais voulu me reveiller,
mais je ne le pus. Quand cependant M. Townshend et
M. Desor se parlaient, je les entendais; j'entendis aussi son-
way to the attraction which dragged me sometimes t<> one side, some-
times to the other, then a kind of surprise on feeling my head fall
into Mr. Town,hend's baud, who appeared to me from that time to
be the cause of the attraction. To his inquiry if I were well, and
'!"hat I felt, I found I could not answer, but I smiled; I felt that my
features expanded in spite of my resistance ; I was inwardly confll5ed
at experiencing plessure from an influence which was mysterious to me.
From this moment I wished to wake, and was less at my ease ; and yet
on Mr. Townshend uking me whether I wished to be awakened, I
made a hesitating movement with my shoulders. Mr. Townshend
then repeated some frictions, which increased my sleep·; yet I was
always conscious of what was passing around me. He then asked
me if I wished to become lucid, at the same time continuing, as I
felt, the frictions from the faee to the arms. I then experienced an
indescribable sensation of delight, and for an instant saw before me
rays of dazzling light which instantly disappeared. I was then in-
wardly sorrowful at this state being prolonged ; it appeared to me
that enough bad been done with me ; I wished to awake, but could
not. Yet when Mr. Townshend and M. Desor spoke I heard them.
SUPPLEMENT. 5il
ner, et le guet crier,maiaje ne sus quelle heure; puiaM. Towns-
hend me present& sa montre en me demandant si je voyaia
l'heure, si je le voyaia lui-meme, mais je ne diatinguais rien ;
j'entendis encore sonnerun quart al'horloge, maia je ne pouvais
aortir de mon etat d'asaoupissement. Enftn, M. Townshend
m'eveilla par quelques mouvements rapides, tranavenes du
milieu de Ia face en dehors, qui m'ouvrirent instantanement let
yeux; et au moment meme je fus debout en lui disant, "Je
voua remercie.'' II etait onze heurea et quart. II me dit alors, et
M. Dcsor me le repeta, que le seul fait qui leur eut donne Ia
certitude que j'etais dans un etat de sommeil magnetique, avait
ete Ia facilite avec laquelle je auivais de Ia tete toua les mauve-
mens de Ia main de M. Townshend, bien qu'il ne me touchAt
pas,etlebien-etre que je paraissais eprouver dansles momens ou,
aprea plusieurs frictions reiterees, il deplayait ainai ma tete a
Tolonte dana tous lea sena.
AGA.SBJSo
I also heard the clock,and the watchman cry, but I did not knowwhat
hour he cried. Mr. Townshend then Jlresented his watch to me, and
ulted if I could S8e the time, and if I saw him ; but I could distin.
guiah nothing : I heard the clock strike the quarter, but could not
«et out of my sleepy state. Mr. Townshend then woke me with
10me rapid transverse movements from the middle of the face out-
wards, which instantly caused my eyes to open,and at the aame time I
got up, saying to him, " I thank you." It was a quarter past eleven.
He then told me, and Mr. Desor repeated the aame thing, that the
only fact which had satis&ed them that I waa in a state of mesmeric
aleep, was the facility with which my head fOllowed all the move-
ments of his hand, although he did not touch me, and the pleasure
which I appeared to feel at the moment when, after several repetition•
of friction, he thus moved my head at pleasure in all directions.
Aca.ss1s.
572 SUPPLEMENT.
TIIIITIIIOtn' TO A cvmova FACT. Da. FILIPPI, OP MrLAI'.
M. 1'Avocat Valdrighi avait l'ouie tellement fin et exalte,
qu'il put entendre des mota prononces aIa distance de deux
chambres, dont les porte& etaient fermees, quoique prononces a
voix tres-faible et baase.
L'exaltation de la vie qui s'obaene chez quelques individus
malades, arrive au point qu'un d'eux voyait lea objets lea plus
minces et fins dans la plus grande obscurite. Cela est re-
marquable dans lea personnes nerveuses et tres-delicates.
Dn.. FILIPPI.
Milan, Juillet, 1839.
T&ANSLATION.
M. Valdrighi, ach·oeate. bad his aense of bearing so exquisite and
exalted that he could bear words pronounced at the distance of two
rooms, the doors of which were shut, although pronounced in a weak
and low voice.
The exaltation of life which is observed in some patients attains
such a height, that one of them could see the most delicate and
minute objects in the greatest darltnen. This is noticed in nervous
and very delicate persons.
Da. FILIPPI.
Milan, July, 18S9.
SUPPLEMENT. 573
AccouNT OP SENBATIONI DURING MzaBERJSATION. Bv
SIGNOR RANIEJU, OP NAPLES.
AvANT ete magnetise par mon honorable ami, M. Hare Towns-
hend, j'exposerai tout &implement les phenomenes que j'ai
eprouves avant, pendant, et aprea rna magnetisation. M.Towns-
hend comment;a par me faire asseoir sur un sofa: ila'aaait sur
une chaise vis-a-via de moi, et ayant pris mea mains dans lea
siennes, il les plat;a sur mea genoux. 11 me regardait 6xe-
ment, et de temps en temps illaissait mes mains, et plat;ait
les pointes de sea doigts en droite ligne de mes yeux, a un
pouce, je crois, de mes prunelles ; puis, en decrivant une
espece d'ellipse, il redescendait aes mains sur les miennes.
Apres ltix minutes qu'il eut porte comme cela alternati'fe-
ment ses mains de mes yeux sur mes genoux, j'eprouvai un
besoin irresistible de fermer mes fpaupieres. Je continuai
cependant d'entendre sa voix, et celle de ma sc:eur (qui etait
dans la meme cbambre), lorsqu'ils me faisaient des questions.
Je leur repondais meme toujours pertinemment, mais tout
mon systeme musculaire etait dans un etat d'affaiblissement
singulier, et de desobeissance presque complete a rna volonte ;
et par consequent Ia prononciation des mots que je voulais
repondre m'etait devenue d'une difficulte extreme. Tandis
T&ANILATION.
Having been mesmerised by my honourable friend Mr. Hare
Townshend, I will simply describe the phenomena which I experi-
enced before, during, and after my mesmerisation. Mr. Townshend
commenced by making me sit upon a sofa : he sat upon a chair oppo-
site me, and, having taken my hands in his, placed them on my knees.
He looked at me fixedly ; and from time to time let go my hands,
and placed the points of his fingers in a straight line opposite my eyes,
at an inch, I should think, from my pupils; then, describing a kind
of ellipse, be brought his bands down again upon mine. After he had
moved his hands thus alternately from my eyes to my knees for ten
minutes, I felt an irresistible desire to close my eyelids. I continued
nevertheless to bear his voice, and that of my sister, who was in the
1 same room, whenever they put questions to me. I always answered
him correctly, but the whole of my muscular system was in a state of
peculiar weaknesa, and of almost perfect disobedience to my will; and
consequently the pronunciation of the words with which I wished to
answer had become extremely difficult.
674 SUPPLEMENT.
que j'eprouvais jusqu'A un certain point les eff'ets du sommeil,
non seulement je n'etais pas etranger Atout ce qui se passait
autour de moi; mais aussi j'y prenais plus de part qu'a
l'ordinaire. Toutes mes conceptions etaient plus rapides;
j'eprounis des secousses nerveuses qui ne me sont pas habi-
tuelles ; enfln, tout mon systeme nerveux etait dans un etat
d'exaltation, et semblait avoir acquis toutle surplus des forces
que Ie systeme musculaire avait perdu.
VoilA les principaux pMnomenes qu'il me fut possible de
resseRtir d'une maniere incontestable. M. Townshend ne
manquait pas de me demander de temps Aautre, se je pouvais
Yoir lui ou ma sU'ur sans ouvrir les paupieres; mais c'est ce
qui me fut toujours impossible, et tout ce que je pus dire
d'avoir vu, ce fut une lueur entrecoupee par les images noires
et confuses des objets qu'on me presentait, lueur qui me
parut un peu plus claire que celle qu'on voit ordinairement
lorsqu'on ferme lea paupieres vis-A-vis du soleil ou d'une
chandelle.
Enfln M.Townshend resolut de me demagnetiser. II com-
men~& A faire de sea mains des mouvements elliptiques in-
verses A ceux qu'il avait faits dans Ie commencement; je pus
ouvrir les paupieres sana aucune espece d'eff'ort, tout mon
Whilst I exp~rienced to a certain point the effects ofsleep, not only
was I not a stranger to all that was passing around me, but I even took
more than usual interest in it. All my conceptions were more rapid ;
I experienced nervous startings to which I am not accustomed ; in
short, my whole ne"ous system was in a state of exaltation, and ap-
peared to have aequired all the superabundance of power which the
muscular system had lost.
The following are the principal phenomena which I was able to feel
distinctly. Mr. Townshend did not fail to ask me occasionally if I
could see him or my sister without opening the eyelids ; but this was
always impossible, and all that I could say I bad seen was a glimmering
ofligbt interrupted by the black and confused images ofthe objects pre-
sented to me, a light which appeared to me a little less clear than that
which we commonly see when we shut the eyelids opposite the sun
or a candle.
Mr. Townshend at last determined to demesmerise me. He began
to make elliptical movements with his bands, the reverse of those
which he bad Ulllde at the commencement; I could now open my
eyes without any kind of effort, my whole muscular system became
..
SUPPLEMENT. 575
syateme musculaire devint tres-obeissant a ma volonte ; je pus
me lever debout, et je fus parfaitementeveille, mais je demeurai
presque une heure dans une espece de stupefaction tres-sem-
blable a celle qui me prend quelquefois le matin, si je me
leve deux ou trois heures plus tard qu'a l'ordinaire.
ANTOINE RANIIIBJ.
Naples, 15 Juin, 1839.
perfectly obedient to my will; I was able to get up, and was perfectly
awake. but I remained nearly an hour in a kind of stupefaction •ery
similar to that which sometimes attacks me in the morning if I riae
two or three houra later than usual.
Naples, 15th June, 1839.
THE END.
Lono11~ :
Printed by A. SPOTI'IIWOODa,
New-Street-Square.
ANTOnia R.t.IIIJ:aL
--··.
ERRATA.
Page 214. last line but one of note, and page 227. line 8. from top,
for " LeM-Nra," read " &/anir&."
406. line 11. from bottom, for "colour: only the rest," read
" colour only : the rest."
506. line 14. from bottom, for the "latter sensation,".read the
" latter, - sensation."
