{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1933__anonymous___the_mystic_brotherhood_university.pdf","mytitle":"The Mystic Brotherhood University","mylang":"de"}
$ ro n u n c ta m en to
issutb bp tfje
jWpsftic JUrotfjerijoob Unibersitp
®ampa, Jftonba
3iulp &utbort?eb bp OTarrant L
°
* • I "
® reat Hobge W/SI
fenoton totfje SUumtneb tfjruout tfje toorlb nSt^f
m a
f
i M i
H a ismprema Concilo Jfflaxtma
W & S . be Umbergo (granba
J
THE BROTHERHOOD'S INVITATION
A strange and unusual Message
Strange, for it is the Message from a Great
University to YOU,as a Seeker for Light. It is a Univer­
sity in which all who are Humble and Sincere are instruct­
ed by the Spirit of Wisdom itself,and here are all the Mys­
teries of Nature preserved for the Children of Light.
The Interior Order was formed immediately after
the first perception of Man‘s wider heritage had Dawned up­
on the first of the Adepts; it received from the Masters at
first hand the revelation of the means by which Humanity
could be raised to its rights and delivered from its misery
It received the primitive charges of all revelation and mys­
tery, it received the true Key to Science, both divine and
natural.
But as men multiplied,the frailty of man neces­
sitated an exterior Brotherhood which- veiled the Interior
One and concealed the Spirit and Truth in the letter, be­
cause so many were not ready to understand great Interior
Truth. Therefore, Interior Truths were wrapped in external
and perceptible Ceremonies, so that man by the perception
of the Outer, which is the symbol of the Interior,
might by
degrees be enabled to safely approach the Interior Spirit­
ual Truths.
THE WISDOM SCHOOL
This School of Wisdom has been ever Cloistered
from the World, because it is submissive alone to the Illu­
minated Government, but from time to time this group of Sa­
ges have revealed to the outer World, a pathway, in order
to attract man to the great Truths of their Sanctuary. It
i3 thus that man finds here Wisdom and with it, All. Not
the Wisdom of the outer world which i3 but scientific know­
ledge which revolves around the outside, but never touches
the centre,but true Wisdom,Understanding and Knowledge,all
reflections of the Supreme Illumination.
All disputes,all controversies,all the things
belonging to the false cares of the world,fruitless discus-
sions,useless germs of opinions,
which spread the seed of
disunion,all error, schisms,and systems are banished.Nei-
ther calumny nor scandal is known«Every man and woman is
honored.Love reigns alone.
Worldly intelligence seeks this Sanctuary in vain
fruitless also will be the effects of the merely curious
to penetrate these Great Mysteries, all is undecipherable
to those who are not ready,for they shall see nothing,nor
read anything. But to the Humble, the Sincere, no matter
how little may have been their previous study and training
there shall be revealed "something of the Mysteries of the
Kingdom".
THE INTERIOR ORDER
So in this Brotherhood,Truth reposes inviolable.
It flows steadily from the great Interior Order,the Broth­
ers who live in Silence,but yet in real activity.Besides
their Secret Holy WJrk,they from time to time decide upon
strategic action. Thus when the earth was ni'gh corrupt by
reason of the great Sorcery,the Brethren sent Mohammed to
bring freedom to mankind by the sword.
This being but partially a success,they raised
up Luther to teach freedom of thought. Yet this freedom
soon turned into a heavier bondage than before. Then the
Brethren delivered unto mankind the "Knowledge", of Nature
and the Keys thereof, yet this also was prevented by the
great Sorcery.
THE MESSAGE TO YOU
Now, in these days, have they raised up certain
trusted ones to deliver unto men and women the Keys to Spi­
ritual Knowledge and in fulfillment thereof,there has come
to you,the reader of this Invitation,the message from the
Interior Order.
The Brothers of the University announced themselves
years ago,without Miracles or Mystery for the Brethren make
no mystery,are devoid of the trappings of the Charlatan and
the deceptions of the merely commercial. They give to their
accepted Neophyte students not laone the text but the com­
ment in simple personal communications,forming the Alphabet
of Spiritual Knowledge.In addition,there are selected by
the Brethren, unique experiments, described in the simplest
available languages. If one fails to obtain good results,it
can be but in the application, for the methods are proven-
YOUR INVITATION
So it is thus, to this University that you are
invited, that in the quiet of your own home, without chang­
ing your earthly obligations, your religion, or duties, you
can receive from this storehouse, the most ancient and or­
iginal science of Life, the very knowledge you need now in
these days of Chaos, for the preservation and the safety of
yourself, your loved ones and your affairs.
NOT COMMERCIAL
The Brotherhood is thus a non-commercial Univer­
sity, a replica of the Mystery Schools of Old. By that we
mean that it is not representing one narrow cult or any Ism.
Like a true University, it trains its students and teaches
all Truth, sifting out the Truth wherever found and bring­
ing to its members the close contact with the Highest Mas­
ters of the Lodge Invisible, the Interior Order. By the
very nature of its work, the Brotherhood cannot resort to
the modern methods of High Powered Salesmanship. Exaggerat­
ed statements, bombastic adjectives, startling claims can
hardly be resorted to by the few genuine representatives of
the Interior Mysteries.
You will also miss the usual enroll­
ment obligati on,from thirty to fifty dollar s.Ycu will miss
also the blind oaths of allegiance to some unknown officer
and all the blind trappings of self-styled Saviours and the
Leaders of new cults whose number has become legion.
In the long years in which the Brotherhood has
labored with and for Humanity, one of its most gratifying
rewards has been the love and reverence of its students for
their institution and their appreciation of its high stand­
ards* It is their talks with friends and others that bring
to the work, the vast number of souls entering the Path for
perhaps the first time. It is their recommerdat-ion. based
on their own practical experience, which has caused our own
steady and unfailing growth thru the years. In every part
of the world are these silent workers, passing on the word
to sincere seekers.
UNUSUAL FEATURES
And so these different and unusual features may
show you,that the Invitation hereby extended to you is in
Truth, the contact for which y./u have been seeking and una­
ble to find.When that restless urge of the Inner Self,that
dissatisfaction with Life first overtakes the Neophyte, he
searching frantically here and there, joining this and t.Jxat,
enthused at first, then, again becoming dissatisfied as he
finds that all that glitters is not gold. Enthused by in­
triguing circulars, he purchases book after book in his ef­
forts to find the Key to Life,which that 'Something Within'
tells him does exist. Yet there is always that disappoint­
ment, that Key which seems to elude his grasp.
THE GREAT TEST
But finally, if he persists in his search,there
comes a day, when quietly, unheralded, without ostentation,
a Way to establish his contact opens, he finds the Gate to
the Mystic Pathway before him. But here is the first Great
Test. Will theouter self recognize the genuineness of the
Invitation, will his Faith in the Guiding Voice Within, car­
ry him over the threshold and will he persist until his hu­
man strength is supplimented, and aided by the 'Dawning Pow­
er of Divine Light' streaming to him from far down the Path.
Or, will the Material Self, trained so long to accept the
glittering tinsel of the World, drown out the Inner Voice,
and refuse to accept the Truth, because she does not appear
in the garb and manner he expected.
A DRAMATIC MOMENT
So this first test of the Neophyte marks one of
the most dramatic moments possible in any human life, or
in the development of any immortal soul. This Occult Uni­
versity, like the Mystery Schools of Old, asks nothing for
itself, it is not a religious order, in the usual meaning
of the term, it is not a Fraternal Movement and it does not
bind its students to any human personality, teacher or foun­
der .
Its Illumined Teachers, as Masters of Initiation
work in Obscurity,behind the Veil, contacting their assign­
ed student Neophytes by mail and otherwise,and working with
them and for them in many strange ways, yet always develop­
ing initiative and self responsibility, always with the ut­
most of freedom of choice. They give freely of their time,
and psychic work in aiding the student to straighten out the
tangled threads of Life, giving to them the knowledge and
pointing out the way to bring Peace, Success, and Happiness
into their lives.
The entire work is a sane sensible training in
the practical application of the Laws of Occultism to the
problems of modern life, particularly, during these changing
days of the Old Age, when true knowledge is necessary to
avoid disaster. When harmony has been restored in their
outer affairs, then if the Neophyte presses on with love
and devotion, he will find that the Master is a Guide and
Friend in the Planes that lie beyond and his contact is es­
tablished with the Interior Order, the Lodge Invisible.
Thus first his affairs should be brought into order, then
all the customary stages of the Mystery Schools open before
him. First, Probation; Second, Enlightenment and Third, In­
itiation or Illumination. In the Second Phase of Enlighten­
ment there are awarded Certificates and Titles indicative
of the student's attainment, useful principally because at
that point the student is ready to do something in aiding
others and the possession of an outer mark of inner develop­
ment is desirable for those who cannot see for themselves.
SIMPLICITY OF THE WORK
A saving in time and money
The personal work of the Master requires no mem­
orizing ,no prolonged hard study,no radical change in your
outer mode of living, no long hours of practice, -and no
change in your religious beliefs, your earthly obligations
or ties. Ten or fifteen minutes nightly at your own conven­
ience, is all that is required. The communications are sent
to you in simple language, readily understandable, and so .
worded that they make their impress upon the Subsonscious
Mind, without arduous study. Perhaps the greatest benefit
will come from having this personal teacher who will stand
ready to aid and advise you in many ways,and to whom you
may freely write of your probleras,your hopes,and also your
aspirations, and on whom you may call in emergencies.
CURRICULUM
The Brotherhood University has divided its Cur­
riculum into three broad Grades of Instruction. The first
deals with the Training and Developing of the Self. The
second reveals the Secret Instruction of the Deeper Myster­
ies, and third, the Development Of the Powers of the Slagus.
REBUILDING THE SELF
First Phase
This part of the work, consisting of 41 lessons
takes up those phases of Mental and Mystical Development,
which brings about a Magnetic Personality, Success on the
Mundane Plane, thru a Utilization of certain little known
Forces, and brings about Peace, Happiness and Prosperity
thru direct aid in the untangling of Personal Affairs, and
the reconstruction of the personal viewpoint and understand
ing. There is brought about during this phase, attunement
with the great Interior Order and Its Power and Knowledge
as Occult Cognition is unfolded. The Faculties of the Stu­
dent become sensitized, and he is taught to study and ana­
lyze, so that each step of his growth brings about cer­
tain definite results, and adjustments to life, as well as
a gradual regeneration of all his faculties and powers.The
Faculties unfold from within, outward, -like the petals of
a flower, and one of the signs of the True Occult Unfold-
ment which is being brought about lies in the peculiar ex­
tension of Sense Perception which the Student develops.
The Mental Sense of Awareness, which you might term a form
of Mental Clarity, or Acuteness, and the Mind becomes a-
ware of the right things to d o ,the correct courses to pur­
sue, the right decisions to be made as problems of the Mun­
dane unfold. There is also built up full Self Control and
Self Mastery over the Triune Nature, so that the intellect
can function uncontaminated by the errors of previous false
concepts and ideas, or by the impingement of the emotions
which otherwise in any way distort the Truth.
INSTRUCTION IN THE DEEPER MYSTERIES
Second Phase
This phase of the work covers a broad course of
instruction, uncontaminated by extreme ideas, or faddist's
viewpoints.lt is not confined to the ideas of any one Lead­
er, but rather opens to the Student the entire knowledge of
the Ancient Mystery Schools,concerning the Inner Plane or­
ganization, the fundamental facts concerning the Universe
and the Mighty Cosmos, the tabulation of the Planes. The
different types of Souls, the Thought Forms and their crea­
tion. The facts concerning Transition,the different stages
of the Path, the Sources of the Knowledge which is being
given. The object of Evolution, Racial Development, Transi­
tion as it concerns Heaven and Hell, the significance of
Ritual, Karma and Atonement.There is something taken up of
the great symbol Systems of the Tree of Life; the subject
of Polarity is discussed, the Truth concerning Trance and
Spirit Communication and Suicide. Complete information re­
garding Mating and Marriage, Twin Souls, Marriage from the
Esoteric Standpoint. A brief discussion of the Religions
of all Ages,and the innermost facts concerning the Heaven
World, protection from Psychic Attacks, including a com­
plete Formula and Instruction. Decreeing as an Adept or
Magus of Power. Complete instructions in formulating De­
crees, the development of Psychometry, a discussion of the
Yoga of the West, the Ancient Mystical Traditions of the
Cabalah. Some interesting lessons are on Flanetary Spirits,
the Doctrines of the Planes with instructions for Diagram,
A discussion on Magical Science of Equilibrium and many
other fascinating and illuminating treatises are clearly
and plainly written in a practical way.The development
work of the first grade also continues with added instruc
-tions- from time to time.
THE POWERS OF THE MAGUS
This embraces the third part of the work, and
completes the most comprehensive System of Personal In­
struction which has ever been given to the Western World
regardless of- the claims of various Organizations.The ac
-tual working methods of this third grade are rarely to
be had,never in Books or by Travelling Teachers.lt covers
all phases of the higher and more sacred Aspects of Oc­
cultism and Mysticism,including Magic,and covers in other
words,the most absolute and divine knowledge of Natural
Philosophy,leading to the Powers of the Adept,controlling
manifestations of Nature and invokes the cooperation of
the very highest Intelligences,who are happy and willing
to serve him who achieves.The various phases of this part
of the Brotherhood work includes the most carefully guard­
ed individual instructions which are combined with the per
-sonal correspondence and guidance, not hitherto available.
ADVANCED STUDENTS
If you are an advanced student it is not necess­
ary for you to begin with the A.B.C.'s— you may begin with
the Second Phase of the work, correlating your previous
studies and bringing them into alignment with the work of
the Western Traditions and thus prepare for the work of
Christian Magic,the labors of the Adept, constituting the
Third part of the work.
On the other hand, if you prefer you may begin at
the beginning and lay the foundation well,finding the time
well spent and finding in the solving of the problems of
life and in the working with the conditions of the world to
day, the best possible discipline and training of the will
and of the Triune Nature, fitting you for unusually rapid
progress when you do turn to the higher work.
NEOPHYTES ON THE PATH
Those of you who are as yet Beginners, who have
been interested in New Thought,Psychology and those simpler
studies of the Outer Courts, will find the early lessons
are written in such a way that they are very easy to under­
stand .
THE TEMPLE MASTER’S TALK • •
ON HAPPINESS AND SUCCESS
"Learn,first,all Thou who aspirest unto the An­
cient Wisdom,that equilibrium is the basis of work.If Thou
hast not established your foundation,whereon wilt thou stand
to direct the Forces of Nature?"
"Know then, that as a man is born onto this world
admidst the darkness of matter and the strife of contending
Forces,so must his first endeavor be to seek the Light thru
their reconciliation."
"Thou,then,who hath trials and troubles,rejoice be­
cause of them,for in them is Strength and by their Strength
is the Pathway opened unto the Light."
"How shall it be otherwise,Oh man whose Life is
but a day in Eternity,a drop in the ocean of Time,how,were
thy trials not many,wouldst thou turn thy soul from the
drought of Earth?"
"Is it but now that the Higher Life is beset with
dangers,and difficulties,has it not ever been so with the
Sages and Hierophants of the Past--they have been persecu­
ted and reviled,they have been tormented by men,yet thru
this also has their Glory increased?"
"Rejoice,therefore,Oh Initiate,for the greater thy
trials,the greater thy Triumph.When men shall revile thee
and speak against thee falsely,hath not the Master said,"Bless
-ed art thou?"
"Yet thou Aspirant,let thy victories make thee not
vanity,for with the increase of Knowledge should come increase
of wisdom--he who knoweth little,thinketh he knoweth much,but
he who knoweth much hath learned his own ignorance.Be *st thou
not a man wise in his own conceit,there is more hope of a fool
than him."
"Be not hasty to condemn others,for knowest thou that
in their place,thou could have resisted the temptation?And even
were it so,why shoulds't thou despise one who Is weaker than
Thyself?" . V
"Thou therefore,who desires the greatest of Gifts be
sure that thy Soul is firm and steadfast for it is by flatter­
ing thy weaknesses that the weak ones will gain Power over thee
Humble thyself before thyself,yet fear neither man nor Spirit.
Fear is failure,and the forerunner of Failurejand Courage is
the beginning of Virtue."
"Man is what he makes himself within the limits fix­
ed by his inherited destiny.He is a part of mankind,his actions
affect not only what he calleth himself but also the whole Uni-
"Worship and neglect not thy Physical Body, whidh
is thy temporary connection with the outer and material
world, therefore, let thy mental equilibrium be above dis­
turbance by material events. Strengthen and control the an­
imal passions, discipline the emotions and encourage the
Higher Aspirations."
"Remember that unbalanced Force is evil, that un­
balanced Divinity is but Cruelty and Oppression,but that al­
so unbalanced Mercy is weakness which would allow and abet
evil. Act dispassionately, think rationally, be thy real
Self."
"Remember that this Earth is but an atom in the Un­
iverse and that thou thyself are but an atom thereon, and
even couldst thou become the God of this Earth whereon thou
crawlest and grovellest, that thou wouldst even then be but
an Atom and one God amongst many."
"Nevertheless, have the greatest Self respect and
to that end, sin not against thyself. The sin which is un­
pardonable is knowiipgly and wilfully to reject the truth,to
fear knowledge lest that knowledge pander not to thy preju­
dices ."
"To obtain entrance to that which you seek, learn
to control thought; admit only those ideas that are in har­
mony with the end desired, and not every stray and contra­
dictory idea that presents itself."
"Now, as hath already been said,establish thyself
firmly in the equilibrium of forces, in the center of the
Cross of thy Elements, that Cross from whose center the
Creative Word issued in the birth of the dawning Universe.
"Be thou therefore prompt and active as the Sylphs
but avoid frivolity and caprice; be energetic and strong
like the Salamanders, but avoid irritability and ferocity;
be flexible and attentive to ideas, like the Undines but
avoid idleness and changeability; be laborious and patient
like the Gnomes but avoid grossness and avarice."
"Then shall not alone Peace, Happiness, and Abund
ance bless thee in Thy earthly affairs, but the Path shall
open before thee, that Path of which the Comte de Gabalis
hath said, ’Soon you will learn to command all Nature, God
alone will be your Master, and only the Sages your equals.
The Supreme Intelligences will glory in your desires, the
demons will not dare to be found where you are.' The Soul
of the Comte de Gabalis is now in the presence of God, but
his immortal words still reveal the promise of that Path
to which this Invitation extends to you. Your acceptance
is awaited - the Master is ready to serve you, the Gate is
open, the Gate of the Western Traditions."
THE REGULAR WORK
is the full, complete course of study, which may
include extra work,if desired. This is termed the REGULAR
COURSE.It includes four lessons or more per month and the
personal letters of the Master,individually written to ea­
ch student. These are sent in reply to the questions or
needs of the student, even as often as each week. Also in­
cluded is the Personal Psychic Help and Guidance of the
Master.
THE WELFARE DEPARTMENT
consists of the same regular lessons, but the long
personal letters, individually dictated and typed are lim­
ited to one per month from the class Teacher. Psychic Help
in all emergencies is given, thus the principal difference
is in the smaller number of individual letters, materially
reducing the actual expenses.
THE MATTER OF FINANCES
9
Following the Ancient Custom, the Work of Enlight­
enment is either department is supported entirely through
Free Will Offerings called Alms. There are no fixed dues,
no fixed obligations as to the future. You do not suscribe
to any fixed amount. Each Lunar month of four weeks you de­
cide the amount of the Alms in whichever department you
are working, sending whatever your heart and circumstances
dictate as just and proper.
EXPENSES IN REGULAR DEPARTMENT
As a matter of record the Scribe of the Brethren
has calculated that the initial cost to the Brotherhood of
securing each pupil in the Regular Department, together
with the enrollment expense, the preparing of the horo­
scope for the Master appointed as the Special Teacher/ the
necessary record cards, folders and plates, is approximate­
ly Five Dollars. His calculations show that the monthly
cost of each student is approximately Two Dollars per Lun­
ar month of four weeks, including the long, two or three
page individual letters of private advice and instruction*
Thus while you do not obligate yourself, it is to be ex­
pected that you will recognize these items as your expense
to the Brotherhood and that you will do your best to cover
them. Students wishing to align themselves with the Teach­
ers of the race, frequently send something extra from time
to time, to help those in the Welfare Department who are
unable to cover their expenses and uses this means for ex­
pressing their understanding of Cosmic Law.
EXPENSES IN WELFARE DEPARTMENT
We are not unmindful of the conditions in the World
today and this department has therefore been arranged to aid
those who need help but are unable to cover the expenses of
the Regular Department. Knowing this, many will not take ad­
vantage of this help, for they do not wish to be under any
obligation. They may now enter this Welfare Department with
the same lessons, under a trained Class Teacher, and by lim­
iting the personal letters to one per month, the Brotherhood
expense is materially reduced. The Scribe calculates the in­
itial expense in this department is approximately One Dollar
and that the monthly expense is fifty cents per Lunar Month
of four weeks. Students, really desirous of having help and
training in the straightening out of their affairs and in-
the understanding of the great laws whose use will aid them,
can secure help here. They do not obligate themselves to
send even these small amounts,but they agree that they will
do the best they can to cover these items of expense.
TRUTH IS FREE
One must remember that, if it were possible for the
students to gather before the Master, he would be able to
teach and instruct them without cost. In these days howev­
er that would involve the expense and difficulties of long
journeys for people now live far apart. As it is, you can
have the Master's words in prepared manuscript form,to read
in the quiet of your own home,without giving up your employ­
ment nor having to prepare for a long trip,with its expense
and hardships. Later on the psychic revelations of the Lodge
Invisible and its great Hall of Initiation come to you in
the same manner.
FINAL INSTRUCTIONS
Having read the foregoing carefully, you may now pro
ceed to fill in your answers to the following questions.Nat­
urally, many things will be made plain and many questions
will be answered after you have completed this, your first
step. These cannot be set forth so openly to an inquirer,ev
en if he has been provisionally accepted. However, it may be
said that your Teachings will come, in the early grades, by
mail, and in the higher part of the work, they will come to
you Psychically, directly from one of the several Masters.
Your Physical Body and your Mental Qualities will be tuned
and developed in preparation for the Mystic Work which fol-
lows--the development of your Psychic Faculties, the opening
of your Inner Sight and Hearing, the Power to speak in the
presence of the Masters and have your desires fulfilled.Then
follows the reshaping of your life along the lines of your
highest Aspirations. Many wonderful experiences come to you
many Experiments are given you, and unusual weekly communica­
tions as well, but the Personal Help and Instruction of the
Master is what makes the difference and what will make your
Success assured, even if you have failed under commercial
methods of self-learning. Personal, Individual Help is need­
ed to DEMONSTRATE Occult Laws and Principles.This makes this •
work different from any other in the Western World.
The requirements of membership are simple, you must
be sincere. No college education is necessary. The methods
are concise and understandable, yet profoundly deep. They
are the methods of the Western Traditions using the Nature
contacts of the Mayan and Atlantean groups, and the high Spir­
itual Contacts of the Master Jesus and the group working
with Him in the Inner Planes. Thus in this Western V/orld are
to be found High Initiates working under authority of the
Great White Lodge of the World and under the guidance of the
Lodge Invisible. Working with them are intelligent, sincere
men and women of every walk of life and in all parts of the
World tho concentrating in the Western Hemisphere. All these
are finding personal help, the loving, kindly teachings they
need during these days. Many, having achieved harmony on the
Earth Plane have turned to the development of their Inner
Powers and are working with the Master as he points the way
thru the Inner Portals and brings them into conscious con­
tact with the Powers of the Unseen Worlds.
Each in becoming a Neophyte should have a firm in­
tention to devote a few moments each day to the pursuit of
the highest Ideals, and also expressing freely and frankly
to the Master assigned to him, and any difficulties or de­
terrent influences of any kind that he may encounter in mak­
ing the Sublime Ascent. It will be the duty and pleasure of
that Master to aid him in meeting and overcoming all such ob­
stacles. He will be at liberty to question his Teacher re­
garding the theoretical and personal problems that are. re­
ferred to or touched upon in his exposition of Life,or that
may at any time arise in his mind,his Life and Affairs.There
are no insoluble problems and no unattainable Ideals.
TEAR OUT AND RETURN
This page properly filled out and signed.
A. D. MCMXXXIII
The Arch Director, M. B . ,
Tampa, Florida.
Venerable Master:
(Regular( )
I make a plea to the Brotherhood for acceptance as a
(Welfare( )
Student and I pledge to you my Sincerity and Zeal. I will
faithfully follow the Ancient Custom and send you my alms
each Lunar Month towards my expenses in the department marked
above. I enclose herewith my first offering towards my en­
rollment and preliminary expenses. It is understood that I
am free to resign at any time, and that I am under no fu­
ture obligation in any way other than to be sincere and to
notify you promptly if I desire to withdraw.
North American Jurisdiction
wWestern Traditions”
Name as usually written.
Address for your lessons.
Sign your name and address to the Formal Request above
and fill in as fully as possible the answers to the questions
on the back of this sheet.
Prepare your offering towards your first expenses and place
currency, check or money order made out to "Arch Director,
M.B.” in Alms envelope. Your offerings are voluntary. You may
select either Department, bub you are expected to observe the
difference in cost. Having answered the questions on the back
of this sheet,fold this page, place the Alms envelope with it
and place both inside of the Brotherhood Addressed envelope en­
closed herewith,then stamp and mail. As soon as the application
is received the Council will appoint your Special Teacher and
you will then hear from him direct.
over
1 Full legal name_______________________________
2 Married or Single? ____________________________
3 Married women giv* maiden name________________
4. City, State, and County of Birth_______________
5 Date of Birth, Day, Month, Tear_________________
6 As close as possible the hour of hirth___________
7 What schooling during youth? ___________________
8 What Religious Training during youth?_____ _______
9 What special courses of Occult or
Psychic study have you taken? ____________
t
10 What Trade, Art, c" Business courses have you had?
11 What is your present occupation? _______________
12 What Art, Trade, or Profession would you
prefer to devote your time to?__________________
13 What stands in the way of your doing so? ________
14 What Church or Religious System do you follow? _
_
15 What has been your health? _____________________
16 How long have you been interested in Metaphysics,
Occultism, or Mystical Thought? ________________
INDEX OF THE MYSTIC BROTHERHOOD LECTURES
First Phase, — 1 to 50
A Topographical Index to the first phase of the Work is given below
that ycru may have an idea of how truly comprehensive these Western
Traditions are. Each topic is covered in plain easily understanda­
ble language, written in a way which automatically impresses itself
on the mind without arduous study. The Second Phase is just as com'
plete on higher work, while the Third is one of the most illumined
courses on Magic ever revealed.
INDEX
A C
Abundance 65
Actuality '
Adhyapya 72
Affirmations 3,13,16,61,125
For another 60
Akasha 39
Akashic Records 65,67
Alchemist Chamber 43
Alcohol 132
Angelic Hierarchies 121
Answer to prayer 51
Aquarian Age 68
Aspects 93
Astral Plane, 53,118
Astrological Law 77
Astrology theory 50
Atlantis
Third emigration 92
Atom 9
Atomic etheric substance 116"
Aura Experiment 28
Avatars of New Race 80
Awakening experiment 47
Awakening in psychic body 58
B
Balanced Nature 109
Biology
Ascent of man 91
Book of Dead 58
Brain 39
Breath
Source of Life 6
Breathing exercise 7
Brotherhood
What it teaches 91
Origin of 110
Buddhic ray 93
Calmness of Mind 90
Carakaship
Aspire to 73
Cellar
Living in 80
Centic aspect 94
Character 78
Christ
Not a Personality 96
Chri stianity
Hidden part 94
Christs of Rays 131
Christ Within 134
Color of psychic body 18
Concentration 100, 103
Confession of Maat 58
Consciousness
Development of 115
Control 79
Cosmic Mind 8
Correspondences 128 -
Creative Faculty
Development of 103
D
Death 126
Decree 13
Demons 123
Discipline 99
Diet 40
Di sease
Cause of 21
Treatment 22
Divine Essence 16
Divine Love
Affirmation 106
Divine Mind
Power of 69
E
E (sound) 82
Ego 134, 138
Electron
Definition 9
Elementals 121
Four Divisions of 122
Emigration from Atlantis 92
Endocrine glands
Manipulation of 133
Environment 78
Esoteric astrology 77
Sternal calm 92
Etheric Aspect 94
Evil Spirits 123
Evolution 135
Evolutionary development 109
F
Faith 32,41,80
Fasting 85
Fate
Wheel of 78
G
Ganglia
Treatment 26,34
Glands 39,133
God
Cosmic Mind 8
Mind Within 8, 134
God's Book of Remembrance 65
Good 70
Group Race Mind 110
H
Harmony 29
Health 84
Heaven world 127
Heredity 78
History of Soul 83
Horoscope
Definition of 77
I
Ideals 89
Illumination 19
Infinite Life 80
Instructions 1
Intel 1ectual process-G8-
Invisible worlds.. ISO
Invocation 1
J
Judgment 79
K
Karma
Law of 63, 138
Lords of 79, 138
Responsibility for 112
Key pictures 101
L
Law of Equity 63, 138
Life
Recasting 81
Life Essence 30,21,52
Light Within
Lords of Aspects 93
Lost word 102
Love 11,66,106,129
Lower Mind 37,41
M
Man
Nature of 134
First Form 134
Early development 137
Manu Melchizedek 132
Manu Narada 132
Master of destiny 62
Masters
Greater and Lesser 96
Master’s message 56
Meditation 113
Meditations
Five 99
Memory
Subconscious 27
Mental limitations 17
Mental Plane 118
Metaphysics 65
Middle Way 71
Mind 39,65,69
Mind (continued)
Creates from Cosmic 5
Process of 111
Worms in two ways 59
Mirror Experiment 28
Mountain
Doorway in 101
Mystic Chamber 43,44,51
Mystic Fire 14
N
Nature of Man 108,134
Nature Spirits 123
Negative impressions 59
Negative Treatment 25
Neutral frame of mind 63
Norse Aspect 94
0
Objective Mind 37
Occultism
Source of 131
Occult Training
Value of 92
Overeating 84
Oversoul 123
P
Pantheism 116
Path
Seven stages of 119
Patience 48,71,82
Personal problems 46
Pineal gland
Exercise 35
Planes
Names and numbers 119
Ensouled by 130
Planes of Consciousness 93
Planes of Universe 114
Polarity
Definition 9
Posture 40
Prayer 50
Progress of love 129
Projecting psychic body 52,54,61
Projection 19
Proj ections
Directing 86
Q
Quiet
Periods of 62
R
Racial Development 136
Rays 131
Reality 36
Reincarnation 13,27,71,77
108,120,134,138
Revelation 131
Review of Experiments 49
S
Sanctum 1
Secret wisdom 108
Seed bearers 131
Self control 117
Service 128
Seven stages of Path 119
Silent Forces 76
Sixth Plane
Focus point 94
Sleep 52
Solar Myth 95
Souls
Ages of 77
Souls of departed
Three types 120
Spirit 17
Spirit and substance 114
Spiritual guide 102
Spiritual Plane 117
Star Logoi 93,132
Subjective Mind 12,16,41
Swedenborg 19
T
Teacher
Becoming 104
Thoracic Rami 25,34
Thought Form
Imperfect into perfect 81
How to buiId
Thoughts 30
Power of 62
Constructive 31
Reproduced in environment
18
INDEX - 4
Tolerance 82
Toxemia 84
Treatment
For disease 22
Truth
Expressed thru individual 80
U
79
Understanding
Universe
Concept of 108
Universal Compassion
Practice of 107
Unwanted Thoughts
Inhibiting 111
Viabrations 2, 10
Visions 89
Visualizing 43
W
Water
Aura Experiment 45
Bowl Experiment 82
Western Schools
Requirements 92
Western Traditions
Aspects of 93
Wheat and Christianity 132
Wheel of Fate 79
Word of Power 102
weighs and considers
To Students of the Regular De­
partments -- or those of the Welfare
Group who may later change to the Com­
plete Work a most interesting announce­
ment will be made after a period of
contact and observation.
The Hierophant will carefully
note the reactions, sincerity and com-
patability of each student during this
test period to the end that those wor­
thy may be informed of this Special
Opportunity.
Cf • = D
A Brother of the Interior order as­
suming the God Form of Hoor-paar-
K raat, the God of Silence. H e wears
the veil of Obscurity, his feet bare as
a m ark of Humility.
q O
#
m
r
