{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1841__anonymous___existence_of_christ_as_a_human_being_disproved.pdf","mytitle":"Existence Of Christ As A Human Being Disproved","mylang":"de"}
THE EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
DISPROVED
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
ADDRESSED TQ CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS.
LONDON:
HENRY HETHERINGTON, 14, WINE OFFICE COURT,
FLEET STREET.
A. HEYWOOD, MANCHESTER. .
J. TAYLOR, SMALLBROOK STREET, BIRMINGHAM.
See.&c.
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
I A I . i ■ S I ¡i.
Digitized by b o o g i e
THE
EflSTEIKE O
FCHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS.
Letter 1. weekly. One Penny.
—¿r-.rr-— ------ - ------ J----
“ I am,the Loud thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
God formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3, 10, 11.
“ For all the gods of the nations are idols; but the Lord made the Heavens/’
—PMLit XCVI.
Christians, ----------
Sensible that any attempt to disprove the existence (whether as
a god offlesh and blood—inspired prophet—or mere man) of Jesu9
Christ will be met by a mo9t vigorous opposition from Christian
clergymen of all denominations—we are not unprepared for the
encounter; nor shall we object to opposition, however earnest or
even fierce in its character, if adorned by a kindly and loving
spirit, which ever commands respect for arguments, even when
they fail to reach the understanding. We, however, candidly
confess, thatpast experience does not warrant us in expecting so
wise a coarse will be pursued by our Christian opponents—whose
custom it is to answer an argument by torrents of invective, and
overpower their opponents by eloquent abuse. Nevertheless, we
shall not, by any mere personal considerations, be turned aside
from the path duty has marked out and conscience has prescribed
—nor do more than smile at any other species of opposition than
that supported by facts drawn from the records of ancient times—
nor surrender to the wielders of any weapons not tempered and
(SECOND EDITION.)
Digitized by Google
2
sharpened by the power oftruth, Coarge, vulgat, and most unfair
allusions (so frequent in public discussions, vitally affecting the
highest interests ofhuman beings, and therefore to be treated with •
a gravity suitable to their importance) may sometimes appear to
give unscrupulous reasoner9 a temporary advantage—but in«reality,
they e*er injure the cause they are intended to promote, and can
only disgrace those who use them. To slander us will not be the
best way to prove our arguments unsound, or our positions unten- ^
able—which, however, may easily be done, if it can be done* by
theological professors, who are sufficiently numerous in these
countries, and are certainly of no use, if not to expound and defend
the doctrines of Christianity! Those who live by the altar, are
expected to support the altar,—nor can they by any other means so
effectually do this, as by proving the reasonableness of the worship
offered up by those whose spiritual interests they profess themselves
to be the ever-watchfol guardians of. The duty of a Christian
minister is “ to watch for souls as one that must give an account"
—and at all times to act as one “ set forthe defence of the gospel,"
-rr-and this, too, in the spirit that the Psalmist has ascribed to
Jehovah: “ But he being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity,
and destroyed them not; yea,jmany a time turned he his wrath
away, and did not stir up all his wrath. For he remembered that
they were but flesh—a Wind that passeth away, and cometh not
a g a i n .
These letters being written by a Jew, will not,it is hoped, weigh
against the arguments they contain, nor fill the breasts of Christians
with malice and disgust. Arguments are arguments, as truths are
truths, no matter by whom urged ; yet it must be confessed that
all are not sufficiently enlightened to view the subject in this fair
and candid manner,—and prejudices against our race are still rife
and strong in the bosoms of all—but the children ofwisdom, who
have the best assurance that individual and national differences,
with the hates and heartburnings, the weeping and wailing and
gnashing of teeth, to which they give birth, will retrograde as a
knowledge of the causes of these differences advances. The pre­
judicesofcaste and system have been the curse of Jew and Gentile,
and involved all in one common moral ruin. Happily, we live,in
amage when religious prejudices (the most fatal of all) are compa­
ratively weak, and as a consequence, thetimes are out-of-joint for
Digitized by Google
3
4
-persecution. We live at an epoch when men are freerto write and
speak almost all they think* and as a consequence, superstition is
dying a natural death; truths which, in times not very remote,
would startle and affright, are now received, not merely without
fear, but with joy and gladness! nor are they merely loved because
they are truths—but from a deeply-rooted and hourly-growing con­
viction that their acknowledgment and practical adoption by the
wise of the earth, will lead to universal redemption from sin «and
misery. When the people shall no longer “ spend money for
that which is not bread; and their labour for that which satisfieth
not; but hearken delightfully (unto the voice of reason), and eat
that which is good, andlet their souls delight themselves in fatness."
From the Atlantic to the Ganges the faith of Mahomed, at this
day, insults the understanding of at least a hundred and thirty mil­
lions of our fellow beings. Nearly an equal number of Hindoos,
in the vast Indian Empire, under British rule, drink the very dregs
of superstition, while untold myriads wallow in the mire of an
abominable idolatry, and in the worship of stocks and stones, dis­
honour that nature which, when guided by right reason, and that
firm faith in truth, which is its first-born, would cover the earth
with men as gods—wanting only their immortality. “ For wisdom
is better than rubies; and all the things that may* be desired are
not to be comparedto it.” Therefore should we “ get wisdom, and
above all things, get understanding," by maintaining the right and
duty of every human being to speak and act according to the dic­
tates of his conscience in matters of a religious nature. This is a
truth which should be insisted upon by men of all creeds, castes,
and denominations—ad it is equally true, whether issuing from the
lips of an Infidel or Christian; indeed, whatever is by nature good
(as truth manifestly is) can neither be honoured nor disgraced by
any human being: Yet that a Jew—one of a tribe whose badge is
sufferance, remarkable for what Christian writers are pleased to cal].
“ stiffneckedness and obstinate credulity,” upon spine points, and
equal stiffneckednessand obstinateincredulity, with regard to others
—should appear, without invitation, at the present alarming crisis
in religious affairs, to defend the scepticism of the Jewish people^
boldly and without reserve or mysticism—within hearing of the
trumpets and organs ofthe Christian churches in this Christian land!
.to proclaim a GREAT TRUTH, that will sh^ke the world ofsuper­
Digitized by Google
4 A
stition from its centre tó its circumference, and putto shame die wor­
shippersofidolsin all the countries ofEurope!—willdoubtlessfill the
credulous, who measure virtue by the length of belief, with horror
and dismay; while hypocrites of every shape and hue—tost on the
stormy ocean of contending passions, fear ofexposure, and hate of
the exposer, anger and affrightstruggling for mastery,making up the
wretched sum oftheir existence—will gather courage from despair,
when the highest note of hypocrisy will be sounded in every cor­
ner of the land—lest that which hath hern enjoyed go long, should be
enjoyedno longer! while the lover of his species will look on and
smile, exclaiming in the joy of his heart: “ The people that walked
in darkness have seen a great light; they that dwell in the land of
the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined/*
If it can be shown, by clear and indisputable evidence, that the
history of Jesus Christ (as commonly received among Christians)
is a forgery and a fiction—that he was not the son of a virgin called
Mary, the wife of Joseph the carpenter, who conceived through
the power of the holy ghost, and ceased not to be a virgin even
after she had become a mother—that he did not converse with the
Jewish doctors in the temple—nor preach to the populace in
Jerusalem andelsewhere—nor perform miraculous cures—nor hold
communion with the devil—nor, in pointoffact, do any one act that
pious enthusiasts and ignorant devotees have ascribed to him; and
further, that neither a god nor a man called Christ was crucified
by Pontius Pilate, the Procurator, and therefore could not by pos­
sibility have arisen from the dead three days after an event which
did not happen, and ascend into heaven, as is vulgarly supposed,
—if, we repeat, it canbe clearly proved that the foregoing assertions
about the birth, life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, are
idle tales, having no foundation whatever in truih~merefictions stolen
from the mythologicalfables of ancient nations,—the very root of the
Christian system will be as nought! “ Therefore, as the fire devour­
ed the stubble, and the flame eonsumeth the chaff, so their root
shall be as rottenness, and their blossom shall go up as dust/*
We are aware that with some men the oracles offaith are better
heeded than the oracles of sense—as is fully proved by the faot
that a vast majority of the human race believe, not merely that
which is superior to sense, but that which is contrary to it. By
such, the evidence of the senses is discarded—unless it accord and
' igitized by Google
5
harmonise with the evidence of faith; nor will our most sanguine
anticipations justify us in declaring our conviction that the multi­
tude, as a multitude, can be at once taught to see as clearly, and
argue as rationally, on religious as on other subjects. N o; reli­
gious prejudices are the most inveterate, destructive, and firmly
rooted of all,—often sinking deep even into minds which have been
polished by liberal and elegant society, and matured by anxious
study—rbut who, nevertheless, have a tinge of religious fanaticism,
which darkens reason—inducing moral, disease, of a specific and
isolated character, which, wherever it' exists, undermines venera­
tion for the majesty of truth, weakens the perception of right and
justice, and gives over its unhappy victim as a prey to contending
feelings and opinions, which rend and tear his moral being. But
there are others ready to renounce their prejudices the moment
they are proved to be prejudices—rand to these we address our­
selves ; and, as the first step to be taken by those who would in­
struct mankind, is to implant a desire to know—stimulate curiosity,
and arouse a spirit of investigation, that will not stop short in its
career, but if possible, grasp the universe, and all its wonderful
phenomena,—willing, nay eager, to emancipate itself from the
thraldom,oferror,—we here offer to such, the files and pincers of
argument—the material for thought,—the weight of which will
crush Christian dogmatisers! who, while steeped to the very Ups
in ignorance as to the source and origin of the religion they pro­
claim, are yet generally better instructed than the majority of their
opponents, who, if more honest, have unfortunately (if possible)
less actual knowledge of the matter in hand. To such honest rear
soners we recommend the perusal of our Letters—not in a vain or
boastful, but friendly spirit,—so that they may hereafter exclaim:
“ And he hath made my month like a sharp sword; in the shadow
of his hand hath he hid me, and made me a polished shaft.”
Inquiry can only be carried on beneficially by those who have
knowledge of men and things; and whatever inquiry effects, as
regards religious opinions, can never alarm the wise man—for his
soul is comforted by the assurance that the reason of man is that
which giveth dominion over the beasts of the field, the fowls qf
the air, and the fish ofthe sea, and will one day regulate and keep
within due bounds,^ the passions of men. That, as “ godliness
profiteth in all things, bqth iu this life and that which is to come,,”
Digitized by Google
«
godliness must have a moral basis—it being evident, to all reflect*
mg minds, that any attempt to separate godliness from morality
shows an utter ignorance of the true meaning of the terms, which*
being one and the same, is, as a moral element, incapable of divi*
non. Now, all morality is nourished by truth—that is to it as sap
or vital juice to the plant—without which, it withers and dies.
The rays of themorning Sun act upon the bosom ofthe chilled earth
<
—when life, in its myriads of animal, insect, and vegetable forms*
springs forth,—withdraw their cheering influence— all becomes
stiffened and dead; so, without the rays of truth, would all moral
existences lose vitality, and perish! Whoever, then, suppresses
truth, or injures the truth-teller, makes war upon morality, and
Urns aims u malignant and deadly blow at our happiness in this
-life and that which is to come. Yet, with this truth staring us
in the face, .the custom of mankind has been—to bate those who
hastened to deliver them from evil, by teaching them that morality
is everything in the arithmetic of life. They have been called—
**Infidel scoffers—libertine*—men who love not the law ofthe Lord—
evil men and seducers—-filthy dreamers, who set their mouths against
Ihe heavens—men who may he seen walking in the counsel of the unr
godly, standing in the way of sinners, and sitting in the seat ofthe
scornful, instead <ffinding their delight in the law oftheLord*—who
are, moreover, “ waxing worse and worse /”—which seems barely
possible in juiman beings so criminal. Such a farrago of abuse
from the lips .of Christian clergymen—directed against those who
have been np.otherwise criminal than in differing or departing from
such opinions as the said clergymen deemed orthodox—is, as before
noted, only disgraceful to its authors; but such is the line of argu­
ment ever adopted by the professors of law-made religions, who
support their authority by vindictive personal slander—not seldom
backed by sticks and staves, the dungeon, the faggot, and the rack!
—in which most unjust and reckless course they have found a
steady support in the fanaticism and vulgar prejudices of the mul­
titude.
Some there^ are who will sit down to peruse these Letters in a
wajped spirit of incredulity, and not draw so much of intellectual
nutriment from them as they otherwise might—because they argue,
that if Christ had no more a real existence than Adonis, Bacchus,
Mithra, or Hercules, the fiction would long since have been disco*
Digitized by Google
1
vered and exposed—so that fhe very existence of the belief in a
god, prophet, or man, called Christ, after the lapse of so many cen­
turies from its origin, is sufficientguarantee for its soundness ; which
sort of reasoning is vastly popular, but ntost unsound,—as will ap­
pear by reflecting that the Chinese have, from time immemorialy
worshipped the god Foh as an incarnate god,—precisely as Chris­
tians believe in the existence of an incarnate god in the person of
Jesus Christ,—but surely no Christian will allow that die belief
proves any thing more than the belief—they will surely not allow'
that the finger of the god Foh will work miracles !—as the Chinese
now contend that it will, and would sooner suffer death than pro­
chum anything to the contrary. They held,this beliefbefore the
advent of the Christian religion—centuries before the wonderful
conception, by the power of the holy ghost, in the womb of the
Virgin Mary,—yet none of our Christian readers will think that a
proofof its soundness ! Those who think highly of antique opini­
ons, simply because they are antique, would do well to remember
that time may give error consistency and strength, and its roots a
firmer hold of the soil in which they are cast—hut cannot conse­
crate them. No prescriptive lease can show falsehood's right and
tide to reception among men ; for as things are eternal, so is the .
nature of things eternal,—and time, itselfever the same, changes the
form, and in a manner gives a new dress to things—but cannot
change their essence or principle. What is true now, was true a
thousand years ago, and will be no less true a thousandgears hence,
— as beautifully observed by the Psalmist: “ A thousand years in
die sight pf God are but as yesterday, when it is past, and as a
Watch in the night/’ To others who may object to onr reasonings
—not because they are inconclusive, hut on the ground that the
majority of mankind ever have been, and ever must be, kept in die
dark, and their reason abused, if we desire to maintain even the
appearance of virtue—we shall often have occasion to allude thereto
in the course of these Letters.
It is matter of history, that religion has hitherto been the most
powerful political instrument of which corruptlegislators have ever
availed themselves in order to effect their selfish purposes. By
religion we mean, the sentiment of faith in things beyond the visi­
ble, which, when warped and made the plastic instrument of politi­
cal tyrants, becomes a cruel and desolating superstition ! Nor are
' Digitized by Google
8
the iitpèrstitioùs notions of the lower orders fostered and encou­
raged by bad men only, but even by those reputed wise and good, if,
indeed, it is possible that men can be wise or good who hold the fatal
maxim—‘that it is necessary io deceive thevulgar! The practical appli­
cation of this maxim gave birth to the opinions of the ancientphilo­
sophers spoken of by Cicero, who declared that—all religious dogmas
had been imagined by ancient sages, with a view to guide those who
could not be guided or restrained byreason. Numa,that wily Pagan,
so much lauded by those who would fain smother, because they dare
not deVelope, the human intellect, to us appears little better than a
cheat, who cunningly feigned to have secret conversations with the
nymph Egeria, with a view the more readily to impose upon his
countrymen, and give them such a character and consistence as
would fit them to bear the yoke of servitude—to which he gave a
lasting character by the establishment of pontiffs, augurs, and that
troop of deluderà who for ages fattened on the vitals of the Roman
people. As observed by a modern author—it would be superfluous
to shew how much ancient priests followed this maxin, in keeping
for themselves sublime doctrines, while they fed the people with
fables—to which we may add, that the modern priests are not for
behind in this particular ; but in no country were priests and legis­
lators of this class so'numerous as in Egypt, where the trick, so pro­
fitable everywhere, of pretending to govern by divine authority,
never failed of complete success. Diodorus Siculus (b. 1, p. 59)
after mentioning that Muenes, the first mortal legislator among the
Egyptians, pretended to derivehis laws from Hermes,adds, “similar­
ly it is said, that of the Grecians, Minos in Crete, and Lycurgus in
Lacedaemon, gave out that they had derived their laws, the Qne
from Jupiter, and the other from Apollo and among the nations
it is reported that this maxim obtained and was a cause ofgreat ad­
vantage to the believers. We, however, who think that none can.
be permanently advantaged by falsehood—who hold for maxim, that
it is necessary to «¿«deceive the vulgar,—promise our readers to do it
—-boldly ! but at the same time, shall carefully avoid shocking, wan­
tonly, the conscientious scruples of the most orthodox. Evidence
none can gainsay will be furnished—let it be examined by those
who are competent to the task,—we ask no more, and fear not the
result ! .
London : H. Hetherington ; A. Heywood Manchester ; and all Booksellers.
J. Taylor, Printer, 29, SmallVook Street, Birmingham. r
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCEO
FCHRIST
..AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS.
Letter 2. * weekly. One Penny.
“ I even I am the ¿ord; and besides me there is no other.”—P&hfcfcMiXLIII.
Christians,:—Those among you familiar with the old Jewish ‘
writings—as well as modem Jewish opinions—are aware that we
reject the Christian Histories touching.the divine character of
Jesus Christ—and read as fable what is told of his resurrection
from the dead—together with what is said of his second coming in
power and glory, in order to judge theworld—in a word, all that is
included under the head Christian Doctrine. We have heard the
Bible justly called “ The Compendium of Ancient Hebrew litera­
ture1*—and it is not a little strange that the prophecies therein con­
tained, go often triumphantly referred to by Christians as proofs of
the soundness of.their doctrines, are considered by the Jews as the
very pillars pf their heterodoxy—as to them it4appears that a care­
ful examination Qf the prophecies, so far from supporting, offer a
complete refutation to the notion that the Messiah has fulfilled his
mission upon earth according to the promises made by the God of
Hosts through the mouths of his prophets. At the very time
Christ is said to have appeared, the Jews, we are informed, rejected
him as an imposter—except a few of the most credulous, who, like
the credulous people of all other nations, are ever ready to swallow
strange stories and follow the first cunning man who sets about
religion-niSkiiig-—nor wlll'tlie strangeness ofhis doctrine be any ob­
Digitized by Google
jection to it, but rather teH in its favour and swell the number of
his dupes. Josephus observes—that the belief in a Messiah was
a u vulgar error/*which obtained credence among somerfew of his
nation, by their building their expectations “ on but one ambiguous
orach orprophecyfound in their sacred books.*' What say the pro­
phecies of Ezekiel* Jeremiah* and those in Deuteronomy ? By
Ezekiel we are told that when God shall deliver Israel* “ The tree
of the field shall yield her fruit, and the earth shall yield her in­
crease. And they shall be safe in their land* and shall know that
I am the Lord, when I have broken the bonds of their yoke and
delivered them oat of the band» of those that served themselves of
them." And what was to be the sign of the covenant of Christ
according to Jeremiah, but this : “ And they shall teach bo more
every man his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying know
the Lord; for they shall all know me* from the least of them unto
the greatest of them, saith the Lord; for I will forgive their ini­
quity. And I will remember their sin no more.” In Deuterono­
my we read that “ The Lord God will raise up unto thee (that is the
Jews) a prophet from the midst ofthee* of.thy brethren, like unto
m e; unto him shall ye hearken.”1 DanieL prophecies that in the
days of the Messiah there should be only one kingdom and one king
on earth, the King Messiah—and any who are sufficiently pains­
taking to read the beautiful Prophecies of Isaiah* will find it therein
declared*that there shall be one religion and one law throughout the
world in the days of the Messiah.—What the above prophecies
proven we leave every candid reader to determine. For ourselves*
we rely notupon interpretations of prophecy merely*but draw apo­
logies*for our bold declaration, that no such God* prophet, or mere
man ever did exist, from the fountain of nature itself. We have
grown grey in the study of these subjects* and hasten to give all it
may concern the'results- of our experience.
The opinion that the character of Christ was a Mythos* has long
been held by the most distinguished among the literati of Europe—>
but none have been so successful in working out and giving cur­
rency to that opinion as the celebrated Straus* a German writer of
immense erudition and research, who, in his “ New Life of Christ,”’
has done more than any-who have preceded him to sap and under­
mine the foundation of the Christian System. The work is almost
unknown in this country, as it has not yet been translated—and
Digitized by Google
H
few even •among the élite ofsociety care to read Germanbooks—be­
sidesthework is very expensive,and thereforebeyond the reachofthe
millions—else, perhaps, would it be unnecessary that our Letters
should appear—but thepoorest may read these, and at their leisure
—and as our philosophy is in substance the same as this learned
writer, all may now become acquainted with his wonderful con­
ceptions, in a modified, and we trust, simple form.
The term Mythos has been variously interpreted, but may be
shortly stated as incarnated conception, or purely ideal personifica­
tions of certain vague and slender ancient traditions—partly true
and partly false—in part historic, in partphilosophic—imaginatively
amplified—from which slendertraditionsand veritablehistorythe ma­
terials were drawn of which the character of Christ was made up—
precisely as was the case with Osiris and Isis with the Egyptians—
Jupiter, Minerva, Venus, and others among the Greeks,
Our readers will be materially assisted in the comprehension of
the full meaning of the term Mythos, by being reminded that it
was formerly the custom with Hebrew, Pagan, and Christian doc­
tors to write in an allegorical style—but as the unlettered may not
know what is conveyed by the word allegorical, for their benefit
we may observe that it is that mode of speech in which the words
used enclose a meaning which does not appear by attending only
to the letter of the discourses. Varrò, a celebrated Roman writer,
mentions three ages of the world—the unknown, the mythological
(when everything was concealed, except to the few, under the veil
of allegory), and the historical. We profess now to speak only of
the second, or age of mythology. As to the first, or what Varrò
calls the unknown, we believe that it is treated of in the sacred
book, but almost always under the veil of allegory, as will presently
appear, when we refer to the books of Genesis, written by the
sagest of all human lawgivers—if he can be called a human law­
giver who was inspired by God himself—stood face to face with
The Most High—and received laws written by the finger of God
amid the thunders ofMount Sinai. Zathraustes, Minos, Zamolxis,
Muenes, Zaleucus (who gave out that he was assisted by Minerva),
and Solon (who availed himself of the sanctity of Epimenides)—
all professed to hold a divine right to teach and govern mankind—
hut who were then wise enough to question the validity of their
credentials ? The same, perhaps, may be said by sceptics with XQn
Digitized by Google
12
spect to Moses, when he demanded submission to his laws on the
ground that he had received them from a god called Iao—but we,
as believers in the Mosaic dispensation, cannot admit that the doc­
trines of a Mohammed and a Moses rest on the same authority—
to do this wT
ould be to overturn the Bible. N o!—we claim for
Moses a higher rank than can be claimed for any other human le­
gislator—as one endowed by the Creator of all things with more of
his divine, spirit than ever fell to the lot of any other mortal.
Our authority for saying this—is the Scripture—and no higher au­
thority can a Christian desire, where we find it written, “ And God
said unto Moses I am that I am ; and he said, Thus shatt thou say
unto the children of Israel, I am hath sent me unto you;” and that
Moses was valued more than any who had preceded him, must ap­
pear, when God spake unto him and said “ I am the Lord. And 1
appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob by the name
of God Almighty; but by my name Jehovah was I not known to
them.” And yet it is past contradiction that the books written by
Moses cannot, without the grossest absurdity, be taken literally, or
as any other than figurative expressions—which are, and ever have
been, a riddle or enigma to the vulgar—nor have w’e any evidence
that Moses desired them to be understood by the Jewish people—
for it is contrary to reason and common sense to suppose that if he
desired them to understand, he was deficient in the power to make
them do so. We need hardly insist that the pretended God called
Jesus Christ, is inseparably connectedwith and dependent upon the
literal interpretation of the first chapters—of the book of Genesis,
where we read of the fall of man, and the great disorder in­
troduced into the wT
orld by a serpent, which invites a woman (Eve)
to pluck the forbidden fruit in a garden eastward of Eden, where
the Lord put the man that he had formed, and then commanded
the man, saying “ Ofevery tree of the garden thou mayest freely
eat: But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt
not eat of it; for the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely
die.” The consequence of the foult said then to have been com­
mitted by our first parents, has been the knowledge of good and
evil: “ And the Lord God said—Behold the man is become as
one of us to know good and evil; and now lest he put forth his
hand, and take also of the tree of life and eat, and live for ever.
Therefore the Lord God sent him forth from the Garden of Eden
Digitized by Google.
id
to till the ground from whence he was taken.” And unto the wo«
man he said—« I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy copcep«
tion ; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth tby children ; and thy desire
shall be to thy husband,and he shall rule over thee.” The dullest
will see that as Christ came into the world to repair the sins of the
world, had man not fallen into sin there could have been no atone-,
ment for sin, unless we can suppose atonement for a sin that had
never been committed. These two dogmas cannot be separated—>
they must stand or fall together. Without sinfulness practised by
our first parents in the Garden of Paradise, Christ would not havç
appeared to bear our iniquities. Let us, then, examine the story
about the fall of man, or that supposition of the double state of man,
first created by the good principle or God, and afterwards passing
under the dominion of the bad principle or Devil—and if we show
that neither Moses, nor the learned among the Jews, at a subse­
quent period, considered it any otherwise than a cosmogonique
fable—an ingenious allegory—through the veil ofwhich the vulgar
could not penetrate—precisely of the same nature asthosemade by
the Magi or Persian priests respecting Ormusd and Ahrimanes and
by the Egyptians upon Osiris and Typhon—at least one half of the
work we have undertaken will be accomplished. Zoroastre, thé
reputed author of the Genesis of the Magi, thus expresses him­
self when speaking of the successive action ofthe two principles in
the world : “ Ormusd, he observes, God of light and good principle^
learns to Zoroastre that he has given to man a place ofdelights and
abundance. If1 had not given to my creatures that place of abun­
dance, no other power could have given it. That place is Eirenj
which at the commencement was finer than the whole world be-»
sides, and only exists by my will. Nothing can equal the beauty
of that place of delights that I have given. 1 have acted first, and
then Petiare (that is Ahrimanes, or the bad principle). That Ah*
rimanes full of death, makes in the waters the great serpent, mother
of winter, which spreads cold in the waters, in the earth, and in thé
trees. In another part of the same work we find the following :
* Ahrimanes or the principle of evil and of darkness, that by which
evil comes into the world, appears in the sky under the fonn of a
greatserpent,accompanied by dewsorbad geniuses, carrying every­
where death and destruction.” •
The above are specimens of the eastern or allegorical style of
Digitized by Google
14
writing—and it thust be at once evident to the most superficial
reader that Ormusd is but a Mythos, or personification of the prin­
ciple of good, whilst Ahrimanes is a personification of the principle
of evil. The remark applies in like manner to the tales about
Osiris and Typhon, Mithra, Hercules, Isis, Adonis; and all the
deities of which we read in fabtfious histories. The similarity be­
tween thé tale told by Zoroastre about the garden ofdelights called
Eiren, and that told by Moses about Eden, cannot fail to strike
our readers—the causes of which similarity will be seen in future
Letters—where it will also be shewn that the most fatal, as
well as the most general, of all errors have had their origin in
the mistakes of the ignorant, who could not distinguish between a
poetical personification and a real existence—which fatal mistakes
the ancient priests cared not to correct. We may add, that the
reason why in the one case the garden is called Eiren and in the
other Eden, is that the Hebrew copyists, instead of Eiren have put
Eden—which will not appear wonderful to those who know that
the two letters r and d in the Hebrew language, are very much
alike in their form. Maimonide (one of the most learned of the
Jewish writers) observes, when speaking of the books of Genesis,
u We ought not to take literally that which is written in the Books
of the Creation, nor to have the same ideas of them as are common
with the vulgar. Were it otherwise our ancient sages would not
have taken so much painsto concealthe sense, and keep before the
eyes of the uninstructed the veil of allegory which conceals the
truths it contains. Taken literally, that work contains ideas of the
divinity the most extravagant and absurd. Whoever can guess at
the true sense of these should take care not to divulge it. It is a
maxim taught us by our sages, above all, in connection with the
work of the six days. It is possible that by our own intelligence,
or by assistance from the lights of others, some may come at the
true meaning—then they should be silent respecting it ; or, if they
do speak of it, they should do so obscurely, as I myselfdo, leaving
the rest to be divined or guessed by those who have the ability to
comprehend me/' It is also observed by this learned Jew, that
“ the love of allegory and enigma was by no means peculiar to
Moses and the ancient Jewish writers,but common to all the sages
of antiquity." Philo^(another Jewish writer of great reputation)
held precisely the same opinions with regard to the character of the
Digitized by Google
15
sacred books of the Hebrews. “ It is confessed by all who know
anything of the Scripture, thdt all is there enveloped under the
veil of enigma and parable/' sa^j^Origen (a doctor of great repu­
tation with the Christian») who regarded the history of Adam and
Eve, the serpent, and the waters of Paradise as an allegory. St.
Augustine, in his work called the “ City of God/' acknowledges
that “ all wise men agree that the adventure ofEve in plucking the
fatal apple and giving it to her husband, together with the t£te-&-
t&e said to have taken place between her and the serpent,is a mere
fiction/' If we compare the allegory concerning Mithra, the great
divinity of the Persians, with the history of Jesus Christ, we shall
be at once struck with the remarkable coincidence in all the essen­
tial particulars. Thus, Mithra, we are told, was born on the same
day as Christ—and that Mithra, it is well known, was but a perso­
nification of the sun—or the great luminary which seems to be the
parent or cause of life and vegetation. Mithra was called the sun,
and Christ was called the light which enlightens every man coming
into the world. Mithra was born in a grotto—Christ in a stable—
Bacchus and Jupiter in a cave, which St. Justin has remarked.
W e are told that Christ reposed in a grotto, when the magi, or
wise men, came to adore him. But who were these wise men ?
The adorers of Mithra or the sun. What presents did they carry
to the rising god ? Three sorts of presents*consecrated to the sun
by the worship of the Arabs, of the Chaldeans, and other Eastern
people. By whom were they informed,of his birth ? By astrology,
their favourite science. What were their dogmas ? They believed
(according to Chardin) the eternity of the first being—which is
light. How are they said to occupy themselves in that fable ? In
fulfilling the first duty of their religion—which commanded them
to worship the rising Sun. What name was given by the prophets
to Christ ? That of East—The East, said they, is his name. Did
space permit, we might pursue the parallel,-r-but mqst content
ourselves for the present in calling the attention of all Christians to
9uch striking coincidences.
There are few, even among the most unthinking of our readers,
who will not laugh at the strange remark of Firmicus (a Chris­
tian doctor) who, when vigorously attacking the ancient religions,
or, as he called them, degrading superstitions, has taken great pains
to compare the characters of Mithra and Christ—noting the traits
Digitized by Google
16
peculiar to each—not forgetting to dwell on the astonishing resem­
blance between the Persian or Mithriaque mysteries and the Euro­
pean or Christian mysteries,— however, explains this remark­
able similarity between these mysteries and gods by observing (as
did Tertullian and Justin) that long before any Christians existed
the devil took great pleasure in copying their mysteries and cere­
monies, that were to he—so that he might enjoy a laugh at the Chris­
tians’ expense / For ourselves, who are not in the devil's secrets,
(as some philosophers seem to be), we freely confess that to
us it appears that the religion of Christ, borrowed from that of the
ancient Persians, which was itself but the worship of the Sun, has
conserved the same dogmas—the same practises—the same mys­
teries—or nearly so—that the accessories may have been more or
less different—but the basis was precisely the same.
It is undoubtedly true that Tertullian, Firmicus, Justin, and
others, call the devil to their cud in order to explain this wonderful
resemblance—but as without the intervention of the devil, it is
easy to perceive that when two religions resemble each other so
perfectly, the most ancient is the mother, and the youngest is the
daughter—it seems beyond dispute,that since the worship ofMithra
is infinitely more ancient than that of Christ, and his ceremonies
practised long before Christ was in existence, that the Christians '
are incontestably either a sect—or mere copyists of the religion of
the magi or priests of Mithra—unless we are prepared to invert the
order of things and prove to the satisfaction of all parties (which,
perhaps, expert sophists may do) that new religions do not grow or
spring out of old ones, but on the contrary, old religions spring out
of new ones—but always aided by the accoucheury of the devil,
who, according to the above-mentioned saints and fathers of the
Christian Church, overreaches God by anticipating and making
common to many nations that faith which he had intended for his
chosen people. All that we insist upon is, that the most learned
apologists of the Christian faith admit that the religion of Mithra
had its sacraments, its baptisms, its eucharists, its consecrations by
mystical words—in short, all that paraphernalia which ill-informed
theologians, and their equally ill-informed disciples, have supposed
were first introduced at what they term the coming of Christ!
London: H. Hetberington, Strand; A. Heywood, Manchester; and all Book­
sellers.—J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Smallbrook Street, Birmingham»
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OP ALL DENOMINATIONS.
Letter 3. weekly. One Penny.
“ I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
God formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3, 10, 11.
“ Every man is brutish byhis knowledge ; every founder is confounded by the
graven image : for his molten image is falsehood, and there is no breath in
them.”—Jeremiah LI. 17.
We offer an unbroken chain of evidence, of which all may, if
they be diligent, reachthe pointofsuspension,to prove, as faras any­
thing in morals canbe proved,thatJesus Christ, the supposedauthor
ofthe Christian faith, never had more than an ideal existence—but
then,it mustbebom in mind,eachlink of thischain mustbeexamin­
ed, or there will be a defect—akindofchasm in our proofs—as it is
clear that the evidence unexamined is defacto no evidence at all—
the strongest reasons unsought into are but on a level with the
weakest,—nay, it often happens that the advantage lies on the side
of the latter, as they generally float upon the surface of things, and
therefore require no effort in those who compass them. To the
blind, the most beautiful productions of a Raffaelle or a Car­
racci are in no wise preferable to the miserable daubs of a vil­
lage painter—in like manner, the deepest or the shallowest reason­
ings are of equal worth and brightness to those afflicted with
mental blindness, who are too often led (as the blind need a guide)
by imposters, sacred and profane, who, in the words of our text,
make them brutish by their knowledge.
Digitized by Google
It was fabled by ancient sages—that truth lay hid in wells, or
deep pits—thereby intimating that if we would possess so bright a
jewel, we must dive and search for it—and however true it may be
that there is one “whose ways-are past finding out,” all besides
seems open to our investigation, and shame upon deluders who
would hinder the right use of our reasoning faculties. Let us, then,
dig for truth into the very bowels of antiquity, and draw from
thence mythologic lore—that rich material, without which we can­
not have a solid and lasting foundation upon which to raise the im­
perishable superstructure of rational opinion. The treasures that a
knowledge of mythology would pour into the lap of humanity are
now, as in times long past, hidden from the vulgar gaze, and like
parks, pleasure-grounds,and all things else, belong only to the few.
The touch of Midas, it is said, turned all things into gold—but the
magic touch of the searching investigator will do more than that ;
for it is surely more noble, as it is infinitely more useful, to add to
our stock of sound information, or rub off the rust it had accumu­
lated by lying idle, and so to speak, give it a brightness it had not
before, than to convert by the simple touch, all things into a barren
metal. Some, as though possessed by the spirit of darkness, seem
to pride themselves in the renunciation of reason—that most pre­
cious gift of God to man—and roll on in thè mire of their own su­
perstition until,like the swine into which we are told a legionofdevils
entered, they are hurried down steeps and precipices, and perish
in a sea of fanaticism.
The hater of instruction must needs be a helper, if not a lover of
deception—as it is manifest that all ignorance is negative decep­
tion ; besides, how shall the ignorant man be guaranteed from the
evils which beset him on every side ? Alas ! how is he to be pro­
tected from the pitfalls dug for him by the enemies of truth—
more cunning than the fox and cruel than the wolf?—or how
should he upon whom “ the light hath not shined,” do ought but
stumble in his darkness ? We love not the traders in human ig­
norance—who, like the spotted hyaena,in silence and in darkness,
seize upon their prey—but would scare them off, or make their in­
tended victims strong enough to wrestle with and destroy them—
by imparting that light which will enable them to see things as they
are, and not as they have been told they are : having ever admired
and felt the full force of the singularly expressive adage in Plutus—
18
Digitized by Google
]9
Scire memn nihil eat, nun me tcire hoe soiat alter. •
My knowledge is nothing unless I can cause another to know what I know.
Those who have examined, in a candid spirit, the contents of our
former letters, will now bein a conditionto descend with us and ob­
tain thatwhich is to all butthe boldand single-minded, a hiddentrea­
sure. The mine ofintellectual wealth has been opened to the view
of all—let those who have the courage proceed to explore it, which
all may do withperfect safety, if guided by experience and accompa­
nied by the inestimable safety lamp ofa pure andupright conscience.
The promise made to enlighten—not to deceive—unvulgarise the
vulgar—shall be faithfully kept—that is, if our ability to do, keep
pace with our desire to do; and above all, we shall aim at simpli­
city of style, so that, if possible, our observations may be within
the reach of the humblest capacity—striving in this matter to imi­
tate Plutarchus, of whom it was said by Scaliger, that “ be wrote
more for men of the world than men of erudition.” Nevertheless,
the latter class of readers, it is humbly hoped, will have little cause
to complain of our want of research—as it is by no means impos­
sible to put much valuable learning in a very simple dress, free
from that profusion of ornamental rubbish which serves only to en­
cumber, and, as it were, hide it beneath a heap. Such abuse of
language deprives the mind of its energy and suffocates judgment;
and some one has happily observed, that even truths, if they de­
prived the mind of its elasticity, would degrade human inteUeot
into brutish instinct. What, for example, can we learn from such
pretty jargon as the following —that “ God is a circle, whose centra
is everywhere and circumference nowhere !” or the gratuitous non­
sense of Albert Vieira, a Portuguese preacher, who wrote that “ If
the Almighty should happen to appear in a geometrical forrp, it
would surely, be the circular in preference to the triangular, the
square, or the pentagonal!”
If Firmicus, and others,mentioned in our last, were in the devil’s
secrets, surely this bold preacher must have had commerce with
the Deity—else how should he come to know that God preferred
the shape of a circle to that of a triangle, or a square ?—truly such
preachers are rare blasphemers. Surely, if they had such astonish-,
ing information, they should have set about writing a history of
Gfod, as Defoe did that of the devil, for the edification of all true
Digitized by Google
2Ö
believers! Synesuis, a Christian bishop, in his Hymns, speaks of
the Deity in the following impious maimer—“ Thou art a father
and a mother, a male and a female ; thou art voice and silence ;
thou art the fruitful nature of nature ! Thou art the father of all
fathers; and being without a father, thou art thine own father and
son!! O, source of sources, principle of principles, root of roots !
thou art the unity of unities, the number of numbers; being both
unity and number!!! Thou art one and all things, one of all
things, and one before all things!” This ridiculous and, to us it
appears, most mischievous mode of writing,we shall carefully shun,
else we might invent “ most serious names to hide our ignorance'*
and dogmata, the hollowness of which might be covered by shewy
language,—butwe have yet to learn that the sublime drivel above
quoted from the early Christian writers, and to which we might
add a moderately sized volume, on the “ transcendental qualities,"
“imaginative re-actions," the avibratiuncles," “intentional species,"
“ love spirits," and other figments or mental fungusses of modern
ideologists, have done anything more than sharpen the weapons
of the Atheists, who, like John Toland, laugh at the pains taken by
unwary theologians to refine the Deity into a mere nothing, and
exclaim—
Others, whose heads sublimer notions trace,
Cunningly prove that thou art almighty space;
And space we’re sure is nothing—er^o, thou;
These men slip into the truth they know not how !
That subjects, however abstruse, about which something can be
known, may, by a proper course on the part of public teachers, be
made perfectly intelligible to the meanest capacity, is an opinion in
which we are fortified by Moses and the prophets, in the sacred vo­
lume, and the writings of such men as Bacon, Locke, and others,
among the profane ; the latter are remarkable for the clearness of
their style and the modesty with which they publish their viewsupon
all subjects—and like Moses and the prophets, insist most elo­
quently upon the incomprehensibility of the Deity ; as it is written
that “ none could look upon the face of the Lord and live." We
read in Exodus, “ And Moses said, I will now turn aside and see
this great sight, why the bush is not b u rn tb u t the Lord (evi­
dently not caring to be seen) said, “ Draw not nigh hither, put off
thy shoes from thy feet; for the place whereon thou standest is
Digitized by Google
21
holy ground.” We elsewhere find that “ the Lord spake to Moses
froin a thick c l o u d t o be sure, one reason was that the people
might not hear him when he spake—but it also served as a sort of
screen through which the eyes of Moses could not penetrate.
To return from this short digression, which, however, we trust
will not be without its uses, as it may shew our readers the neces­
sity there is that all who love wisdom should confine themselves to
those subjects which lie within the domain of reason—beyond the
boundariesofwhich “thewisdom ofthe wise is as foolishness/' Nor
will such limits be so hard to bear as some may be disposed to be­
lieve—for in reality, the knowledge of things is as the horizon that
flies before us, and seems to mock our pursuit—keeping those who
seek to grasp it in never-ceasing eternal motion. Had we all know­
ledge—all mental, nay physical motion would stop—none could
bear the weight that omniscience would cast upon them ; and those
who desire it, like Semele, who wished that Jupiter might visit her
in all the bright refulgence of his glory, would be destroyed iu its
fulfilment .
The fable of the Sphinx has been supposed to enclose as in a
semi-transparent shell or covering, many useful hints affecting the
acquirementofknowledge to those who aresufficiently^sharp-sighted .
to penetrate beneath the surface. The Sphinx, as the ancients
inform us, had the claws of a Griffin, the face of a woman, and the
wings of a bird, and resided somewhere near the city Thebes, on
the top of a high mountain—was noted for her cruelty in destroying
all those who were unable -to interpret her riddles—until Oedipus,
a cunning man, induced by the hope of high reward, interpreted
her famous riddle—slew, and took the monster—then placed the
carcase upon a slow-paced ass,—by all of which is evidently meant
what we have endeavoured to convey to the minds of our readers,
that knowledge is a monster which can only be conquered by the
brave and prudent, as Odipus is represented to have been. We
are moreover told, that he was lame in his feet—by which we are
admonished,that all who would vanquish and overcome knowledge,
must do it slowly and bydegrees—not running foolishly and out of
breath—but, as before observed, calmly and deliberately, as though
lame in our feet—so that we may not justify the proverb—swift
a-foot, slow in head. Placing the empty trunk of knowledge
upon an ass—which is here meant to signify experience—also en-
Digitized by Google
22 /
closes a moral pregnant with wisdom, the substance of which we
have before given—which is, that however difficult it may be to un­
riddle riddles, when once this is effected in the manner described,
they are placed upon the back of dull experience—or, as the fable
hath it—mounted on a slow-paced ass,—an illustration of which
is furnished by the workings of.the human mind in this our time,
when men may be seen the most obstinately dull—to compare whom
with the inoffensive ass, would certainly be libelling the latter—are
nevertheless made by the triumphs of experience, masters of move
actual knowledge than fell to the lot of many who were reputed
wise among their ancestors.
The remarks in our last, touching the allegorical character of the
ancient Hebrew, Pagan, and Christian writings—the parallel drawn
between,the character of Mithra or Persian Deity,known to be the
personification of the Sun, and that of Jesus Christ, will fill pious
bigots and gloomy fanatics with dismay—nay it has so filled them;
and terrible are the denunciations—and awful the threatenings of
the morally diseased!—but, if what we have already written has
unfortunately plunged them into choler—that which we have to
write will but plunge them into more choler!—as our moral physic
will, we fear, only increase their distemper! We are not among
those who think it wise “ to do evil that good may come of i t a n d
surely to desert the post of truth, and cease to publish that which
¡all should know, from fear of the tintamara of interested bigots and
their stupid dupes—however good as regards ourselves—would give
a mortal stab to the progress of truth and liberty. It can be no
matter of astonishment to the reflecting mind that the ill-instructed
among the people should be ever ready to support public persecu­
tors in their attacks on the consciences of all who dissentfrom them,
or that they should remain in profound ignorance as to the origin
of their religion, when in matters of faith, unlike the deaf adder,
they have heeded the voice of the charmer, charmed he never so
sillily—nay, we know that the charmers themselves—(we of course
mean the priests)—know not that the Christian religion is but a
branch—and a fast withering branch—of the great Upas tree of
mythologic fiction; but it is with religions as with streams at which
many slake thep* thirst—but few care to examine their source.
Serapis, Isis, Anubis, Osiris, and Typhon were adored in Egypt—
but all these gods were ridiculed and despised by the Romans, who
Digitized by Google
23
themselves adored Jupiter, Mercury, Diana, Ceres, and Pluto—
that is to say, precisely the same Deities under other names. Such,
it has been truly remarked,’ is the empire of names over the un­
thinking multitude, whose dogmatism upon these subjects is ever
(to speak like mathematicians) as the squares of their ignorance ;
and what can be more evident than if those who, bom on the banks
of the Tyber, thus laughed to scorn the gods of the Egyptians, had
been born on the banks of the Nile, they would have held that
Serepis, Isis, and the rest, were the true Deities.
' In Plato we read, that at periods very remote the Greeks wor­
shipped the Sun, the Moon, and the Stars ; but he did not seem to
be aware, or have the slightest conception of what all now know,
that Hercules, Apollo, Bacchus, Esculapius, &c., were but imagin­
ary characters—like Christ—having no real existence—mere idols
ofthe mind. Weknow that expressing ideas by symbols was univer­
sal throughout the ancient world. Thus—a harlot being despised
by the Egyptians, was symbolized, by a creature like the Sphinx,
with huge claws, the face of a woman, and the body of a beast
The famous Hercules and his twelve works will be shewn to be
fictional, as Hercules was a mere personification of the power, force,
and grandeur of the Sun and his supposed twelve works—the seem­
ing motion of that luminary through the twelve signs of the Zo­
diac, or as they have been figuratively called, houses of the Sun.
We have already called your attention to the fact that the Persian
Divinity, Mithra, was but the Sun, as is shewn by ancient records.
The philosopher Julian observes—“ We celebrate some days before
the first day of the year with magnificent sports, in honour of the
invincible God, Mithra or the Sun. May we long have the happi­
ness to celebrate thy appearance, O Sun, king of the universe !”
This expression is after the manner of Plato, who calls the Sun, the
“Son of God and we are informed that all the monuments raised
by the Persians to their great Divinity, have these words inscribed
On them “ To the God Sun, the invincible Mithra.” It is supposed
even by many who have reputation for intelligence, that Hercules
was a robust Greek prince, who conquered the Nemean lion, and
did other wonderful things, in the same manner that many intelli­
gent people as erroneously imagine that Christ and a cortège of
twelve apostles performed certain extraordinary things eighteen
hundred years ago.
Digitized by Google
24
Hercules was reputed among the Greeksto be the son of Aleemene,
by Jupiter the father of the Gods ; this story is wonderful enough,
but by no means so extraordinary as that of the Christians who
maintain that the Holy Ghost was the father, whilst a virgin was
the mother ofJesus Christ who, bom in Judea, early in life worked
at his reputed father*Joseph's business, namely, carpentering and
joinering.—Hercules, according to the fable, was bom in Thebes,
had many wives and children, and many princes of Greece
put in a claim tobeconsidered as his kinsmen—hence the Heraclides,
who boasted that they were descendents from Hercules. The tomb
of Hercules is also shewn in Cadiz, as that of Christ at Jerusalem,
and temples, altars, solemn fetes, hymns, and sacred traditions,
nourished and kept alive the delusion in the minds of the common
people, whatever opinion the few who thought thereupon might
have held respecting it, so that all contributed to swell a chorus in
praise of the wonderful Hercules, who came upon earth to benefit
the world in general, and the Greeks in particular, in the same
manner that all orthodox persons in our own time lift up their voi­
ces in*praise of Jesus Christ, who came to save souls in general,
and those of the Jews in particular, each people believing that God
has a special interest in their exclusive welfare. That the Egyp­
tians and the Phenoecians have had the most influence upon the
religions of other nations, is universally admitted, and that astrono­
my was the very soul of the Egyptian and Phencecien system, is
well known to those who have studied these subjects—together with
the fact which my readers should carefully remember, that the Sun
was their grand divinity,and called Hercules, the worship of whom
extended itself fromMeroe in Ethiopia (the Ethiopians were the fa­
thers of the Egyptians) and Thebes in Upper Egypt, to the frozen
regions of Scythia—from the remotest parts of India to the shores
of the Atlantic—from the forests of Germany to the burning sands
of Lybia. Let not the honest reader be scared by the above facts,
but havefaith in truth as the best anchor of safety—of which it has
been poetically said “ No tint of words can spot its snowy mantle,
nor turn its sceptre into iron.” Let none fear that a Pivine Reli­
gion will be unable to withstand the shock of the most eloquent
sophistry—but Superstition is d e v il is h , and must be destroyed!
Loudon: H. Hetherington, Strand; A. Heywood, Manchester; and all Book­
sellers.- -J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Smallbrook Street, Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A 8ERIES O f LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW /
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OP ALL DENOMINATIONS.
Letter 4. weekly. One Penny.
“ I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no.
God formed, neither shall there he after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and beside«
me there is no Saviour.*’—Isaiah XLIII. 8,10,11.
“ They provoked him to jealousy with strange Gods; with abominations pro­
voked they him to anger.”—Deut. XXXII. 18.
C hristians, .......... ..
% An acute modern author has observed,* that “the ordinary stages
through which any discovery in phosiology, involving views that
go greatly beyond those commonly entertained, has to pass, are first,
to be positively denied as false, contrary to experience, absurd, and
unworthy the attention of sensible men; secondly, to be shewn to
have been known and admitted before, to a degree depriving the
observer who wasjust now ridiculed for having believed it of any
credit—for having seen with more justness and originality than
ethers, the disputed novelty; thirdly, to be denounced as a peril­
ous innovation—endangering religion and the moral bonds of so­
ciety ; fourthly and finally, to be received by every body as a mat­
ter of common knowledge—the only wonder being that it was ever
doubted, and its supposed anomolies and contradictions to nature's
laws shewn to be, and represented by the writers of the day as, the
most striking illustrations of the harmony ofthe physical world."
The above remarks apply with equ^l force to opinions in general,
and need not be confined in their application to those affecting
• See account» of somerecent effect»of MesmariaUn, by Herbert Mayo,F.R.S.
—Mbwical Gaz. No«. 31, 38, 33,
Digitized by Google
physiology in particular, as all opinions have been thus treaty
which tended to disturb received notions in moral as well as phy­
sical science. Who has ever attempted to pluck up the ancient
tree of superstition, under the shade of which the entire human race
has hitherto reposed—but has deeply felt the withering effects ofthe
ridicule ofthe unscrupulous and the denunciations of those whose
craft istin danger ?—while, alas ! hut few have seen their opinions,
however sound and healthful, take root in the human mind, arid
put forth fruit beyond the reach of cant and cavil! If this has been
the case—if such the fete of opinions but moderately heterodox—
what are we justified in expecting, who would plough up the very
foundations of superstition’s temple in this the most civilized portion
of the globe, by proving that Jesus Christ—now worshipped as a
once incarnate God, said to have been born in Judea, and crucified
on Mount Calvary—never had more than an ideal existence—and
that the religion which rests thereon is a desolating superstition—
invented by those who “ make lies their refugeAlready have we
been told that ourLetters are“false and contrary to experience—to­
tally absurd, and unworthy the attention of sensible men so that
these opinions, in common with all others, have passed through
their first stage. With regard to the second, we lay no claim to
originality as respects the grand conception—but we do lay claim to *
originality in all that affects execution ; but even this we would
willingly give up, if by so doing we can give satisfaction to our op­
ponents—not being over anxious to be thought originals—butrather
desirous to be the propounders of correctopinions, caring little by'
whom they werefirst broached ;and as to the matter ofcredit, we are
notvery solicitous thereupon, except inasmnch asthe reputation our
writings may obtain will be a kind ofpassport, and find them more
ready acceptance with those who only read works of great repute,
about which all the world talk.
Were it worth thepains wemight insist with Solomon,thatthere is
nothing new underthe sun,orasawitty profane authorhas remarked
—that “originality is butjudicious imitation.” We shall, however,
no farther notice this matter oforiginality than to say,that we agree
with a writer in the “ Edinburgh Review,” who observed, that “ he
is not so mnch the inventor of an opinion who first conceives and
proclaims it, as he who proclaims it so loudly, so perseveringly, and
so Nearly, that all are compelled tohear and understand him.” We
shall presently—nay we have arrived at the third stage-—that is, we -
Digitized by Google
27
are denounced as haters oftruths—unbelieving Jews—perilous inno­
vators, who wish to overthrow religion, and loosen the moral bonds
of society ; but then,it has been by those who, “ born as the wild
ass's colt," are moreover, not likely to be tamed by reason and
commonsense, who have sagely denounced our opinions without
taking thepains to read what We have written, and farther,protest
that they will not examine anything we do write—so that if they
know our opinions to. be subversive of religion and morality, their
knowledge must be intuitive» Iu this they imitate the Pharisees,
who,we seretold, contemptously asked—“ Can any good thingcome
out of Nazareth ?” Saying in scorn, “ Look and see! for out of
Galilee ariseth a prophet.” They have passed to the silent tomb,
but their spirit remains. The lapse of eighteen hundred years has
made little improvement in the character of spiritual teachers.
The Pharisee of to-day is the Pharisee of all time; he is still the
“ whitened wall” who makes the credulity and misery of the people
the ladder by which he mounts to power and fortune—blowing the
trumpet of his own renown and publishing his own sanctity at the
corners of our streets, as in olden time—and, as then, making all
those not so hypocritical as themselves, feel theirgalling yoke and
the sharp edgeof their authority! Priests of termer ages am said
to have crucified Jesus, and would willingly have crucified allvthose
who believed in him; now—oh strange difference!—-they would
willingly crucify those who do not believe that he, who has been
called by Luciana a “crucified sophist,”was a Godin human shape.
Bitter, andnever to beforgotten,werethepersections suffered by the
Jewish people, through ages of Christian bigotry and intolerance,
because they laughed to scorn the idle, but to Christians profitable
tale, that a man called Jeans Christ, whose very existence we deny,
was the temporal Messiah promised by Jehovah to.come in power
and might to resuscitate the fallen glories of the children of Israel!
We may be taunted, despised, and rejeoted—Christians may still
spit upon our Jewish gaberdine—they may accuse us to the judges
of the land as stubborn heretics, desirous to undermine the sacred
foundations of their holy faith—»but in the words of the poet we
may exclaim—“ O h! father Abraham, what these Christians are!
whose own hard dealings teaches them to suspect the thoughts of
others!”
Our opinion that the character of Christ is a Mythos, if founded
upon the rock of truth, cannot perish, but may safely defy the waves
Digitized by Google
28
of.error, which will dash over it in vain; we prophecy that ere Ion#
it will be received by all as a matter of common knowledge, when
this opinion will have reached itsfinal stage, and the wonder will
be great that any people upon whom God had not sent a “ strong
delusion that they might believe a lie/* should, for a single hour,
have credited the monstrous fiction ! The state fbught against Si­
sera ; and surely the heavens will fight against the depravers of the
human mind, and put them to flight, when it shall be known that
Christ was but a personification of the Sun—and no more existed
either as man or God, in divine or human shape, than Adonis*
Atys, Bacchus, Osiris, or any other heathen personifications of the
Sun.
It is now past doubt, that what we read about Adonis and
Venus is mere fiction, as that of Osiris, Bacchus, and Atys, which
in all essential particulars are precisely the same—all having no
other object than to represent by a sign or symbol in human shape,
the Sun's apparent motions through the twelve signs of the zodiac;
but we shall presently prove that Hercules and his twelve works
related to the Sun and the twelve signs—as we shall also shew that
Christ and his twelve apostles relate to the same phenomena. -
We do not deny that many men called Christ, may in former
times, have existed in Jerusalem and elsewhere, any more than we
deny that such a person or persons as Hercules once existed in
Greece—but we do distinctly deny that either Christ or Hercules
were gods, demi-gods, or prophets, or performed the works com­
monly attributed to them. Christ no more fouetold the destruction
of Jerusalem than did Hercules conquer the Nemean lion. Christ
no more performed the miracles, Testament-makers have ascribed
to him, than did Prince Hohenloe the miracles ascribed to him /
To destroy the divine and prophetic character ofJesus, is to destroy
all that which renders him sacred in the eyes of Christians, and at
once strips his character of that gaudy plumage which dazzles
the eyes of his worshippers. When this is done, k will be time
enough to consider Whether one or fifty Jesus Christs walked about
the streets ofJerusalem eighteen hundred years ago;and really, of
no more practical consequence than it would be to inquire whether
certain men called Bacchus once lived in Thebes.
In periods very remote, the phenomena, so extraordinary to the
eyes ofuninstructed mortals, the rising and setting of the Sun, and
its apparent motion from east to west, was alternately a subject of
Digitized by Google
29
the most doleful lamentations and wild rejoicings—when the god
Sun was worshipped in the religious temples. Adonis is repre­
sented by the poets as lying on a superb bed by the side of the
goddess of generation and of spring, the mother of love and of the
graces. His adorers prepared for him flowers, essences, the first-
fruits of the earth ; he was invited by prayers, sometimes dolorous
—sometimes full of joy, that he might be induced to remain with
them ; for, having personified their deity, they attributed to him
feelings and passions—supposing, as ignorantdevotees ever do»that
the gods are much moved by human prayers, aud love to be thus
addressed. Before hereturned to life—for, during the winter,the Sun
was said to be asleep by the priests, while the god was said to be
dead by the nninstrncted multitude—fêtes were celebrated in hon­
our of his resurrection. This fête, according to Corsini, was held
on the 25th ofMarch,on the 8th day beforethekalends ofApril. The
womenofArgos—who, likethe women everywhere, arethegreatsup­
porters of superstition—went,just as we are told that Martha and
Mary did to the sepulchre of Christ, to weep over the remains of
Adonis ; and that doleful ceremony was performed in a temple de­
dicated to the Saviour god, or god Lamb. The funeral of Adonis
was annually celebrated at Alexandria with much pomp, when his
image was carried in procession to the tomb. The like took place
in Athens, if we may credit Plutarohus, who, in his Life of Alci­
biades, informs ns that upon one occasion, at the moment of the
celebration of the death of Adonis, the Athenean fleet was fully
equipped for the unfortunate expedition to Sicily—when nought
was to beseen in the streets but the image of Adonis surroundedby
a throng of women—tearing their hair, beating their breasts—play­
ing off all those mad antics common among crazy fanatics.
Plutarchus tells us that the Egyptians thought that Hercules
had his seat in the Sun, aud that he sailed round the world in
that star. The hymns attributedito Orpheus treat of the relation, or
rather, the identity ofHercules with the Sun, by whom be is called
“ the god generator oftime, of whom the forms are various, the fa­
ther of all things, and who destroys them all. He is the god who
by turns gives us the dawn and dark midnight, and runs through
the career of the twelve signs ; valorous Titan, thou god unrivalled
andall-powerful, who destroyeth all maladies, and delivereth usfrom
the evils which afflict us.” Bacchus, son of Semele, bom in The­
bes, according to the Greeks, was an ancient hero who was raisedtp
Digitized by Google
30*
the rank of the gods because of his conquests; but it is no less a
fact, whatever the Greeks or Egyptians might have thought that
Bacchus was not bom in Thebes any more than Hercules was, or
Jesus Christ in Judea, that he was not placed among the gods after
his resurrection, any more than were Hercules, Adonis, Osiris,
Atys, or Christ—it is no less a fact, that these personages were
nothing more than personifications of the Sun. Here, however,
is the difficulty—Christians will be incredulous, but let them reflect
that the Romans would have believed—nay did believe, that
the Egyptians were idolators; and the Egyptians in like man­
ner complimented their ancestors, who probably did not fail to do
the same to all who in former times worshipped any but the true
lath andplaster divinities,—each people being far-seeing as the vul­
ture with regard to the superstition of their neighbours—but blind
as bats and stupid as owls with respect to their own.
W e know that all our readers will disclaim being superstitious—
they would shrink with horror from the idea of worshipping idols,
having read the command, “ Thou shalt not make thee any graven
image, or any likeness that is in heaven above, or that is in the
earth beneath, or that is in the waters under the earth bu t we
shall presently see, when we have proceeded a few steps further,
that all Christians are idolators—that is, worshippers of symbols, or
signs of things, which worship has not even the poor merit of ori­
ginality. This bold assertion may startle—but the many must be
startled if we desire ultimately to benefit them. Old prejudices,
like old diseases, must be shaken out of the system, or the patient
dies; it is mere murder to flatter and dally with the sufferer, when
by a little vigorous treatment he might be thoroughly cured,—but
then, the treatment, though vigorous and firm, should not be cruel.
The surgeon who finds it necessary to amputate a withered limb,
should use sharp instruments, with a steady and determined hand;
but none but Tyros or bunglers will inflict unnecessary torment.
The necessity there is that human beings should be shocked, and
thus aroused from their present state of stupor, will appear from a
consideration of their utter helplessness as regards the fulfilment of
the highest and noblest duties—a helplessness born of habit and
confirmed by it, like that acquired by the animal nick-named the
Sloth, by ignorant naturalists, who had only seenthe creature when
confined in the cages of our menageries, where its natural powers
are deteriorated for the want of that healthful exercise necessary
Digitized by Google
31
for the developement of its energies; but when ranging the trees
of his native forests—he is slothful no longer; his idleness and stu­
pidity vanish when the restraints which produced them are re­
moved ; nor shall we be wide of the mark in saying, that caging
human beings in theological menageries is most destructive and per­
nicious to their physical and mental faculties, and moreover, as in
the case of the sloth, led philosophers to make sad blunders as to
the nature ofman—judging him by what he was, and overlooking,
or not knowing what he might become when his cage should be
broken to pieces, and he permitted to breathe the pure air of Nature,
and exercise those divine energies which now lie dormant within
him. Men would then no longer need keepere—but gather stores
of knowledge from the great garner of Nature herself—her book,
the 44Elder Scripture/' would be everopen to them—which is writ­
ten in a language intelligible to all, and convincing as intelligible.
Let, therefore, no sincere Christian be deterred from examining
his religion, and thereby be convinced in his own mind that what
he has hitherto strained to his breast as religion, is not the viper
superstition, which poisons while it fascinates:its victims! We
hold that the worshippers ofJesus Christ are superstitionists—mere
idolaters, who have raised temples, and offered up their incense
therein to a borrowed symbol—instead of using them for the pur­
poses of knowledge and holiness. Altars are raised, and the divine
worship, instead of being full of charity, peace, and affection, like
the ox offered up by Prometheus to Jupiter, contains nothing
more than dry bones. Thus is the worship of deity one of empty
rites and barren ceremonies, with which human beings stuffout
their sacrifices—leaving no room for love, peace and charity,which
should be as its bowels. Nor is this the only effect which deifying
idols produces—but makes sincere idolaters hate those who will
not44bow the knee to Baal." How far the early Christians were
infected with the spirit of idolatry, may be seen at large in the
books of the holy fathers ; and never did the degenerate Jews lust
after the flesh-pots of Egypt more shamefully than did the early
Christians lust after the false Pagan deities! In the Life of Gre­
gory, surnamed Thaumaturgus,* we read that44When Gregory saw
the simple and unskilled multitude persisted in the worship of im­
ages, he granted them permission to indulge in like pleasures in
celebrating the memory of the holy martyrs." This may have been
* As quoted by Mosheim the Ecclesiastical historian, vol. 1, y. 202
Digitized by Google
32
politic in Gregory, but certainly speaks trumpet-tongued as to the
morals and intellects of the new .sect who thus went a whoring after
old inventions—butmore of thishereafter. At present,it is sufficient
to know that the worship of Nature preceded the worship ofidols;
the first is commonly called natural religion—having nothing what»
ever to do with any other revelation than that the material uni­
verse offers to the senses of man; whereas, idolatry grew up with
human error, and is an abomination in the sight of the Lord, as
appears in Scripture, where we are told—“ Jehovah, he is God in
heaven above, and upon the earth beneath—there is none else /"
Few will believe that men in any age worshipped blocks of stone
as blocks ofstone; but it is evident the word god, having no pro­
totype in nature, philosopherstook refuge in their own conceptions,
which being more or less grand and imposing, were put into shape
by the chisel of the sculptor, hence signs, emblems, or, as they are
generally termed, symbols; which latter word we shall hereafter
use as being the most expressive ; the full and true meaning will,
we trust, soon fall within the comprehension of the dullest.
We did intend to have entered at large into a consideration of the
word Symbol; but such a course would too far distract the atten­
tion of our readers from the great question we have pledged our­
selves to consider; but as it is indispensable thatall should have a
correct idea of symbolic worship folly before them, we have deters
mined to publish a Supplement with our fifth Letter, containing
the great Lord Bacon's curious, and truly extraordinary explana­
tion of PAN, or, as the name imports, Universal Nature 1 We
cannot too highly recommend this singular performance to all those
who would fully understand in what consists the essence of physi­
cal mythology. To the* unlettered, we recommend it as a simple
explanation of what a symbol is, which in no way else can they
so well comprehend. To the philosophic we recommend it as a
key with which to open the great store-house of ancient wisdom—a
performance at once simple and sublime, containing the most pro­
found reflections and speculations touching the nature of man and
the origin of the universe. We may add, that in no other of his
Works did that great philosopher, publish his sentiments so unre­
servedly and so folly as when explaining and enlarging on ancient
fable.
London: H. Hetherington, Strand ; A. Heywood, Manchester; and all Book­
sellers.' -J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Smallbrook Street, Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE O
FCHRIST
’ AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS, .
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OP ALL DENOMINATIONS.
Supplement. weekly. One Penny.
THE FABLE OF PAN.
The ancients have with great exactness, delineated Universal
Nature, under the person of Pan. They leave his origin doubtful:
some asserting him the son of Mercury—and others the common
offspring of all Penelope’s suitors. The latter supposition doubt­
less occasioned some later writers to entitle this ancient fable **Pe-
nelop^T a thing frequently practised, when the earlier relations
are applied to more modern characters and persons; though some­
times with great absurdity and ignorance; as in the present case:
for Pan was one ofthe ancientest gods, and long before the time of
U lysses; besides, Penelope was venerated by antiquity for her ma­
tronal chastity. A third sortwill have him the issue ofJupiter and
Hybris—that is reproach. But whatever his origin was, the Des­
tinies are allowed his sisters.
He is described by antiquity with pyramidal horns, reaching up
to heaven, a rough and shaggy body, avery long beard, of a biform
figure, human above, half brute below, ending in goat’s feet. His
arms, or ensigns of power, are—a pipe in his left hand, composed
Ofseven reeds; in his right a crook; and he wore for his mantle a
leopard’s skin.
His attributes and titles were—the god of hunters, shepherds,
and all the rural inhabitants; president of the mountains; and
after Mercury the next Messenger of the gods. He was also held
. ° - • •
Digitized by Google
34
4the leader and ruler of the nymphs, who continually danced and
(risked about him, attended with the Satyrs, and their elders the
Sileni. He had also the power ofstriking terrors, especially such
as were vain and superstitious: whence they came to be called
panic terrors.
Few actions are recorded ofhim, only a principal one is, that he
challenged Cupid at wrestling, and was worsted. He also catched
the giant Typhon in a net, and held him fast. They relate farther
of him, that when Ceres growing disconsolate for the rape of Pros­
perine, hid herself, and all the gods took the utmost pains to find
her, by going out different ways for that purpose—Pan only had
the good fortune to meet her, as he was hunting, and discovered
her to the rest. He likewise had the assurance to rival Apollo in
music—and in the judgment of Midas was preferred ; but thejudge
had, though with great privacy and secrecy, a pair of asses ears
fastened on him for his sentence.
There is very little said of his amours; which may seem strange
among such a multitude of gods, so profusely amorous. He is only
reported to have been very fond of Echo, who was also esteemed
his wife—and one nymph more, called Syrinx, with the love of
whom Cupid inflamed him for his insolent challenge.
Lastly, Pan had no descendant; which also is a wonder, when
the male gods were so extremely prolific; only he was the reputed
father ofa servant girl, called Iambe, who used to divert strangers
with her ridiculous prattling stories.
This fable is perhaps the noblest of all antiquity; and pregnant
with the mysteries and secrets of nature. Pan, as the name imports,
represents the Universe,about whose origin there are two opinions,
viz.—that it either sprung from Mercury—that is, the divine word,
according to the Scriptures and philosophical divines; or from the
confused seeds of things. For they who allow only one beginning
of all things, either ascribe it to God, or if they suppose a material
beginning, acknowledge it to be various in its powers ; so that the
whole dispute comes to these two points, viz.—either that Nature
proceeds from Mercury, or from confused mixture, according to the
fable.
The third origin of Pan seems borrowed by the Greeks from the
Hebrew mysteries, either by means of the Egyptians, or otherwise ;
for it relates to the state of the world—not in its first creation, but
Digitized by Google
35
as made subject to death and corruption after the fall; and in this
state it was, and remains the offspring of God and sin, or Jupiter
and reproach. And therefore these three several accounts of Pan's
birth may seem true, if duly distinguished in respect of things and
times. For this Pan, or the universal nature of things, which we
view and contemplate, had its origin from the divine word, and
confused matter, first created by God himself; with the subsequent
introduction of sin, and consequently corruption.
The destinies, or the natures and fates of things, are justly made
Pan's sisters—as the chain of natural causes links together the rise,
duration, and corruption—the exaltation, degeneration, and work­
ings—the processes, the effects, and changes of all that can any
way happen to things.
Horns are given him, broad at the roots, but narrow and sharp
a-top, because the nature of all things seem pyramidal: for indivi­
duals Are infinite; but being collected into a variety of species,
they rise up into kinds; and these again ascend, and are contracted
into generals,—till at length nature may seem collected to a point.
And no wonder if Pan’s horns reach to the heavens, since the subli­
mities of nature, or abstract ideas, reach in a manner to things
divine: for there is a short and ready passage from metaphysics to
natural theology.
Pan’s body, or the body of nature, is, with great propriety and
elegance, painted shaggy and hairy—as representing the rays of
things ; for rays are as the hair, or fleece of nature, and more or
less worn by all bodies. This evidently appears in vision, and in
all effects or operations at a distance—for whatever operates thus
may be properly said to emit rays. But particularly the beard of
Pan is exceedingly long; because the rays of the celestial bodies
penetrate and act to a prodigious distance—and the Sun himself,
when clouded on its upper part, appears to the eye bearded.
Again, the body of nature is justly described as biform, because
of the difference between its superior parts; as the former, for their
beauty, regularity of motion, and influence over the earth, may be
properly represented by the human figure; and the latter, because
of their disorder, irregularity, and subjection to the celestial bodies,
are by the brutal. This biform figure also represents the partici­
pation of one species with another; for there appear to be no sim­
ple natures; but all participate or consist of two: thiw man h ^
Digitized by Google
36
somewhat of the brute—the brute somewhat of the plant—the plant
somewhat of the mineral; so that all natural bodies have really
two faces—or consist of a superior and an inferior species.
There lies a curious allegory in the making of Pan goat-footed ;
on account of the motion of ascent which the terrestrial bodies have
towards the air and heavens : for the goat is a clambering creature,
that delights in climbing up rocks and precipices : and in the same
manner, the matters destined to this lower globe strongly affect to
rise upwards; as appears from the clouds and meteors.
Pan’s arms, or the ensigns he bears in his hands,are of two kinds;
the one an emblem of harmony, the other of empire. His pipe,
composed of seven reeds, plainly denotes the consent and harmony,
or the concords and discord of things, produced by the motion of
the seven planets. His crook also contains a fine representation of
the ways of nature; which are partly strait, and partly crooked;
thus the staff having an extraordinary bend towards the top, de­
notes, that the works of divine Providence are generally brought
about by remote means, or in a circuit; as if somewhat else were
intended, rather than the effect produced,as in the sending of Joseph
into Egypt, &c. So likewise in human government, they who sit
at the helm, manage and wind the peoplemore successfully, by pre­
text and oblique courses, than they could by such as are direct and
strait; so that in effect all sceptres are crooked a-top.
Pan’s pipe, composed of seven reeds, leads to curious reflections,
as the number seven is a mystical number, like the numbertwelve,
and three-hundred-and-sixty-five, or that of the days of the year.
In the apocalypse of St. John we And that the numbers seven and
twelve are repeated at almost every page,—the first is mentioned
fourteen and the second twenty-four times. The chandelier with
seven branches, which we are told represented the planetary sys­
tem, is the Temple of Jerusalem; the seven doors of the cave of
Mithra, or the Sun, the seven stages of the tower of Babylon, sur­
mounted by an eighth, which represented the sky, and served as a
temple to Jupiter; the seven gates of the tower of Thebe9, each
carrying the name of a planet; the lyre with seven strings, touched
by Apollo, or by the god Sun; the book of destiny, composed of
seven tablets; the seven prophetic seals of the Brahmins, on each
of which is marked the name of a planet; the seven consecrated
stones to the same planets in Laconia; the division into seven
Digitized by Google
castes adopted by the Indians and Egyptians from the highest anti*
quity; the seven idols that the Bonzes carry every year in great
pomp to the seven temples; the seven mystical vowels which form-'
ed the sacred formula in the temple of the planets; the seven altars
of the monument of Mithra; the seven great geniuses invoiced by
the Persians; the seven archangels of the Jews and the Chaldeans ;
the seven resounding towers of the ancient Byzance ; the seventh
day with all people, or the period of seven days, each consecratad
to a planet; the period of seven times seven with the Jew s; the
seven sacraments with the Christians, &c. &c.
Pan’s mantle, or clothing, is with great ingenuity made of a
leopards skiu; because of the spots it has : for, in like manner, the
heavens are sprinkled with stars, the sea with islands, the earth
with dowers, and almost each particular thing is variegated, or
wears a mottled coat.
The office of Pan could not be more lively expressed, than by
making him the god of hunters: for every natural action, every
motion and process, is no other than a chace; thus arts and scien­
ces hunt out their works; and human schemes and counsels, their
several ends; and all living creatures either hunt out their aliment,
pursue their prey, or seek their pleasures; and this in a skilful and
sagacious manner. He is also stiled the God of the rural inhabi­
tants ; because men in this situation live more according to nature,
than they do in cities and courts; which corrupt them with effemi­
nate arts. He is likewise particularly stiled President of the moun­
tains, because in mountains and lofty places, the nature of things
lies more open and exposed to the eye and the understanding.
In his being called the messenger of the gods, next after Mercury,
lies a divine allegory; as, next after the word pf God, the image of
the world is the herald of the divine power and wisdom; according
to the expression of the Psalmist: “ The heavens declare the glory
of God, and the firmament sheweth his handy-works.”.
Pan is delighted with the company of the nymphs; that is, the
souls of all living creatures are the delight of the world ; aud he is
properly called their governor, because each of them follows its own
nature as a leader; aud all dance about their own respective rings,
with infinite variety, and never-ceasing, motion. And with these
continually join the Satyrs and Sileni, that is, Youth and Age ; for
jail things have a kind of youi-g, cheerful, aud dancing time; and
Digitized by Google
3*
again their time of slowness, tottering, and creeping. And whoever
in a true light considers the notions and endeavours of both these
ages, like another Democritus, will perhaps find them as odd and
strange, as the gesticulations and antic motions of the Satyrs and
Sileni. ,
The power he had of striking terrors, contains a very sensible
doctrine; for nature has implanted fear in all living creatures; as
well to keep them from risquing their lives, as to guard against in­
juries and violence: and yet this nature, or passion keeps not its
bounds; but withjust and profitable fears always mixes such as are
vain and senseless; so that all things, if we could see the insides,
would appear full of panic terrors. Thus mankind, particularly the
vulgar,labour under a high degree of superstition; which is nothing
more than a panic dread that principally reigns in unsettled and
troublesome times.
The presumption of Pan, in challenging Cupid to the conflict,
denotes that matter has an appetite, and tendency to a dissolution
of'the world, and falling back to its first chaos again ; unless this
depravity and inclination were restrained and subdued by a more
powerful concord and agreement of things, properly expressed by
love or Cupid : it is therefore well for mankind, and the state of all
things, that Pan was thrown and conquered in the struggle.
His catching and detaining Typhon in the net, requires a similar
explanation ; for whatever vast and unusual swells, which the word
Typhon signifies, may sometimes be raised in nature, as in the sea,
the clouds, the earth, or the like; yet nature catches, entangles,and
holds ail such outrages and insurrections in her inextricable net,
wove as it were of adamant.
That partofthe fable, which attributes th? discovery of lost Ceres
to Pan, whilst he was hunting ; a happiness denied the other gods,
though they diligently and expressly sought her, contains an ex­
ceeding just and prudent admonition, viz.—that we are not to expect
the discovery ofthings useful in common life, as that of com denoted
by Ceres, from abstract philosophies; as if these were the gods of
the first order; no, not though you used your utmost endeavours
this way; but only from Pan, that is a sagacious experience and
jgeneral knowledge of nature; which is often found, even by acci­
dent, to stumble upon such discoveries, whilst the pursuit was di­
rected another way.
Digitized by Google
39
The event of his contending with Apollo in music, affords us an
useful instruction, that may help to humble the human reason and
judgment,which is too apt to boast,and glory in itself. There seems
to be two kinds of harmony ; the one of divine Providence, the
other of human reason : but the government of the world, the ad­
ministration of its affairs, and the more secret divine judgments,
sound harsh and dissonant to human ears, or human judgment; and
though this ignorance be justly rewarded with asses ears ; yet they
are put on and wore, not openly, but with great secrecy : noris the
deformity of the thing seen or observed by the vulgar.
We must not find it strange if no amours are related of Pan be­
sides his marriage with Echo : for nature enjoys itself, and in it­
self all other thing; he that loves, desires enjoyment; but in pro­
fusion there is no room for desire : and therefore Pan, remaining
content with himself, has no passion,unless it be for discourse,which
is well shadowed outby Echo, or talk;orwhen it is more accurate,
by Syrinx, or writing. But Echo makes a most excellent wife for
Pan, as being no other than genuine philosophy, which faithfully
repeats his words : or only transcribes exactly as nature dictates;
thus representing the true image and reflection of the world, with­
out adding a tittle.
Philosophers who speak doubtingly of things are much abused
and derided by those who hold a more certain creed ; but surely
to say, as some have said, that we know nothing—one thing is not
more certain than another—is far better than to erect our own
conceits into oracles, making our faith the standard by which we
measure that of other men, when it is manifest that minds like bo­
dies vary as regards strength and fitness, and when again we reflect
that about things heavenly there hangs a mystery—a thick mist,
which has hitherto clouded the intellects of the most far-seeing of
mortals. The world seems given over to our disputes—but did
men know all things they would dispute no longer; the heavens
teach not their own cause—merely their own existence ; and
though some may know by revelation the nature of divine things,
it is in a sense totally distinct from that now in vogue; for the
heavens merely display a character of perpetuity and unchange­
ableness, which contrasts admirably with the ceaseless motion and
and strugglings and changes of matter on our own planet; but
whether we cast our eyes towards the stars, or down upon the earth,
Digitized by Google
40
it should be with a view, not merely to gape and wonder, but if
possible, to grasp and enclose, as in a net, all that it displays ; but
this has not yet been accomplished by men. Had philosophy done
its duty in times past, and not crept timidly along, as dreading the
sound of its own footsteps, God would have been glorified by the
mind of man, and philosophies would no longer be as a stage play
got up for vain shew, and exposed as at a fair, to the highest bid­
der ; but become next to religion, the divinest thing; for religion is
to the imagination of man, what philosophy is to the judgment;
that is, imagination when it thwarts not judgment, but merely
leads the way to things unknown, meddling not with those of
earth, except in harmonywith judgment, which should be the prime
-disposer of mortal bliss, and sit enthroned as the supreme arbiter
of human destiny. Whereas with the puflfed-up and swollen super­
stitionist, the reverse holds, for he applies his judgment to that it
fitteth not, making use of his imagination when the matter lieth be­
neath his feet, this is mere vanity,and those so acting are generally
men of small capacity but large assurance.
It tends also to the support and perfection of Pan or nature, to
be without offspring; for the world generates in its parts, and not
in the way of a whole; as wanting a body external to itself, wherer
with to generate. •
Lastly, for the supposed or spurious prattling daughter ofPan,it
is an excellentaddition to the fable, and aptly represents the talk­
ative philosophies that have at all times been strirring, and filled
the world with idle tales : being ever barren, empty, and servile ;
though sometimes indeed diverting and entertaining; and some­
times again, troublesome and importunate.
We may add—Pan was with the Egyptians what Vishnow
seemed to be with the ancient inhabitants of the vast continent of
India, as we read in their sacred hooks—that the Universe is no­
thing more than the form of Vishnow—that he carries it in his bo­
Asom, that he is all that is, all that was, all that will he—that he is
the principle and end of all things, that he is all in all, that he is
a being who displays himself to our eyes under millions of different
forms.
London: H. Hetherington, Strand; A. Heywood, Manchester; and all Book­
sellers. -J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Sraallbrook Street, Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
* ; :A8 A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IBBESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SEBIES OF LETTEB8,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
, ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS.
, L etter 7>. weekly. One Penny.
u I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there.was no
God formed, neither shall there be after me. 7, even 7, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3, 10* 11.
u And I will destroy your high places, and cut down your images, and cast
year barcaaes upon the.carcases of your idols, and my soul shall abhor you.”—
Leviticus. XXVI. 30.
C hristians, ------------
To prove by abstract reasoning that the worship of Christ is a
borrowed worship—and, moreover, the worship of an idol, would
be difficult, if not impossible. The majority of readers are, we
fe$x,not yet prepared to deal with abstractions—but of historic evi­
dence all may judge. Mere reasoning, however just, will not en­
able us to effect the object we have in view. Idleness, physical
and mental, is the radical vice of the human constitution, and leads
ns to rest content with what we have, rather than exert our energies
to obtain that we ought to have. To arouse, therefore, sluggish .
minds, much evidence is necessary—and this too, of a clear and
simple character, so that its results may be perceived at a glance,
and our readers stimulated to inquiry by the interesting thoughts
such evidence suggests. We rely, therefore, principally upon his­
toric testimony to bear us out in our assertion—that the Christian
religion was borrowed from ancient religions, and was originally a
mere solar fable.
Digitized by Google
*42 *
Many Infidels,wljo have not hesitated even to doubt the existence
of one eternal God,; have nevertheless admitted that a man called
Christ once played a certain part in Palestine, and was the founder
of the religion bearing his name, These men appeal to reason;
and as they profess to be guided by no other authority, they must,
if consistent, abide by its decision. "Hast thou appealed unto
reason ? unto reason shalt thou gp”—at that severe tribunal their
opinions must bejudged—received if sound, and rejected if erro­
neous.
That the unthinking multitude should have held so erroneous an
opinion through many ages, is by no means wonderful, as from the
cradle to the grave they hear the one falsehood hourly reiterated;
and such is the nature of the human mind, and so susceptible is it
to the influences, whether of truth or fiction, thatthe veriest absurd­
ity, oft repeated, is an absurdity no longer, but a serious truth, as
observed by Addison—"tell a man anything, however absurd,every
morning before breakfast, and depend upon it, he will believe you
in the long r u n a n d what other tale have Christiansbeen allowed
to hear since Christianity wedded itself to the civil form, and be­
came part and parcel of the ever-varying law of the land, than
that Jesu9 Christ did this, and Jesus Christ did the other, some
eighteen hundred years ago ? which, moreover, all were told that,
not to believe, was to inherit damnation! Nor are the injurious ef­
fects of error confined to the taught—but speedily effect the teach­
ers thereof,as it is by no means seldom that expounders offalsehood
begin by deceiving, and end by being deceived; error being by its
very nature contaminating, like pitch or glue, adhering to those
who handle it ; hence we find that where superstition pre­
vails—(and where does it not ?)—both priests and people are more
or less the victims of their own arts; and few even among the more
* cunning, entirely escape the moral infection—whereas, the many
are inevitably destroyed by it. " Thou canst not touch pitch with­
out being defiled,” saith the Scripture.
Sceptics who support their opinion that Christ did not exist as a
god, but merely as a reformer, as did Zoroastre, Minos, Moses and
others, make great parade of historic proof, which, they contend,
shews that it is at all events probable that such a character actually
. existed ; but reject the idle tale about his birth, resurrection
Digitized by Google
43
from the dead, &c. Nor is it uncommon to hear them treating, in
their public discourses, what they are pleased to call the precepts,
doctrines, and life of Jesus Christ; and though we may be justified
in supposing that not a few of such Sceptics make a shield of the
name of Christ, with a view to back up their own weakness and
ward off public odium, and thus call the attention of simpletons
from their real designs and ultimate objects, yet we cannot doubt
that some few of these men are sincere, and really do suppose
(being very ill read in the matter) that what is said in the Testa­
mental books is something more than an old wife’s fable, made up
of the rakings and scrapings of worn out philosophies.
Oh, say these oracles, to disbelieve in the existence of Jesus
Christ, is to produce a moral earthquake, and throw into the air the
very foundations of history—not to believe what the apostles have
said, is to shake our belief in the sayings of Plato and Aristotle,
or the doings of an Alexander. This is the same in substance as
was formerly said by the brother of Cicero, who declared that to
deny the truth of the oracles of Delphi, would be to overthrow the
foundations of all history; but there are few Christians who will
admit, that by attacking these pretended oracles, they would not
rather be strengthening the foundations of history; but so it is,
each defends his own chimera, and leaves history and science to
shift for themselves.
When- we demonstrate to our readers that the incarnation,pf
Christ is that of the Sun-.—
that what is said of his death and resur­
rection relate entirely to that brilliant luminary, and that all palling
themselves Christians are merely worshippers of the Sup, as thp
Peruvians that they so cruefiy slaughtered, the great question, to
wit—whether a man called Christ did or did pot exist, shah bp
freely and fully discussed. If it be demanded whether we consider
that the object ofthe Christian worship was arpal being,,pr merely
ideal?—we reply, that it was certainly real,inasmuch as nothing can
be real, if the Sun is not so,—that brilliant star which enlightens
every man coming into the world.
. If we search for evidence of the existence of Christ, whether as
philosopher pr impostor, in the writings of the Pagan authors, we
shallfindthatnpne of them—at least those ofthemwhose works have
floated down to U£ like light planks upon the waves of time—have
Digitized by Google
44
treated exprofesso that question, or given a history of Christ; hat
great stress has been laid upon the observations of Tacitus* in his
Annals—“ that the Christians derived their name and origin from
Christ, who in the reign ofTiberius, had suffered death by the sen*
tence of the Procurator Pontius P il a te but what do these words
amount to, when it is evident that they are used by Tacitus to give
the etymology ofthewordChristian? which he informs his readers,
came from one Christ, put to death under Pilate ; and thistoo, hap¿-
pened somewhere about a hundred years after Christ is said to
have existed—that is, Tacitus relates a legend about that time, and
we shall hereafter see that the legend was a solar fiction.
If Tacitus had spoken of Bramins,he would doubtless have said
thatthey derived their namefrom a certain Brama who hád lived iU
India; nor would the present Bramins be slow to avail themselves
ofsuch historic testimony in their favour; and yet none but silly
believers in Brama would, on that account, think it proved that the
god came on earth in human shape, especially if they knew that
the term Brama is but a name for one of the three attributes ofa
personified divinity. .
It is clear that Tacitus, having, in his history of Nero, to give an
account of the Christian sect, gives to the name the received etyv
mology, without troubling himself to inquire whether a man or a
god really existed, or if he was the hero of a sacred legend, such
an examination would have been quite out of place in bis work.
Suetonius, anotherauthorofrepute,when speakingoftheJews,states
that u there was much agitation among them during the time of
Claudius, and that they were moved and incited by a certain Christ
—a turbulent seditions man, who was the cause of the expulsion
of the Jews from Rome.” It would puzzle even orthodox Christi­
ans, which of these two historians to believe, seeing that they con­
tradict each other, or stall events, do not aécord as to the time and
place where and when the pretended Christ lived; but the righte­
ousness of faith will enable its professors to remove mountains, sb
that, perhaps, they will find little difficulty in believing both these
accounts. The Christians generally, however, seem to prefer Taci­
tus, and he certainly the most accords with the solar fable.
Nothing can be more clear than this—that the above-quoted
historians have spoken of Christ upon vague rumour,without atacb-
Digitized by Google
45
ing aoy importance to the tale, and therefore, their testimony by
no means offers a safe satisfactory guarantee of the existence of
Christ, whether as god, legislator, or impostor. If that existence
had been an indubitable fact, it is hardly credible that from the
times of Tertullian, authors who had seriously discussed the
question and examined the origin of Christianity, should have writ­
ten that the worship of the Christians was that of the Sun, and by
no means connected with a man who had formerly existed. Those
persons who pretend to the character of philosophers, and make of
Christ-a reformer, or an imposter, only display their ignorance of
ancient history, and are brought to such an erroneous conclusion
because they have not enough offaith to believe in Christ as a god;
and on the other hand, not had an opportunity to compare his fa*
bnkras history with the solar legend; hence they do not see i&
his character what it really is—a sacerdotal fiction.
Those who cannot admit as authentic history, the famed exploits
of Hercules, nor 6ee in him a god, have concluded that be was a
great prince, the history of whom has been embellished by the mar*
vellous. Such an explanation certainly has the advantage of sinto*
plicity in its favour—and is, moreover, a quick and ready method
of getting rid of a subject that its examiners have not had the reso*
lution and patience thoroughly to probe and search into; but, un*
fortunately,it does not give ns true results; and though such ex*
planations are duly received as genuine, Hercules is no less the
Sun personified. But when an error is once established, and conr
sidered respectable in the eyes of the people—when spiritual pas­
tors prohibit any but orthodox criticisms—when they make books
and destroy them, proving some divine and others heterodox—
there is little chance that the people should be in a condition to
get correct knowledge therefrom.
if there are ages of light for philosophers—that is to say, for e
small number of men*—‘all ages are ages of darkness for the mil­
lions—especially in matters which affect religion; nor shall we be
wide of the true mark, if wejudge of the credulity of the people by
the impudence of the authors of the first legends. If we are to be­
lieve them, they were eye-witnesses—they saw what they relate.
We are told that the authors of the Christian books were plain and
simple men: however this may be, one thing is certain—that the
Digitized by Google
46
trashy stories they have told are fit only for idiots or children—dif­
fering only from Tom Thumb, Little Red Ridinghood, and the ,
like, in being incalculably more mischievous, and far less amusing.
The legend is indeed sufficiently simple,—no one can justly deny
that the apostles were simple men—but still men so simple as to
believe every thing, or to say that they have seen, when it was
quite impossible they ever could have seen,—are*surely but bad
authorities to rely upon in the building up of our faith. Besides»
these writings carry upon the face of them, not to be mistaken signs
of imposture. One of them, after having written as nearly as pos­
sible the same that is to be found in the books of the other three,
says that the hero of his legend had performed such a crowd of mi­
racles, that if a book containing them all could, by any possibility,
be made, the universe would be unable to contain it! The hyper­
bole is rather strong; but how is it possible that, of such a sum.of
miracles, none have been related to us, save those contained in the
four Evangelists, who all confine themselves within the same,
or nearly the same, circle of facts. Truly the manufacturers of
these books were simple workmen, or they would have managed-
matters better; butno, out of the more than can be counted of mi­
racles and facts, they have all related the same,or nearly the same,
circumstances, with a difference so trifling, that if the four had
dapped their simple heads together with a short-sighted intention
to cheat the people, they could not have succeeded better. What!
out of so many millions of remarkable events, the four evangelical*
agree to write only about the same facts !—all the rest areconsigned
to oblivion—traditions as well as sacred writings are dumb!
The author of the legend known under the name of St. John,
whether simple or sage, has undoubtedly reckoned upon having
none but true-believers for readers—that is, simpletons. Indeed,
to admit the testimony of these books as proofs of the existence of
Christ, is to believe everything; for if they write truly when they
say that Christ lived among them, what possible reason should we
have for believing that he lived among them, as they have related
he did-—especially when we further consider what an abandoned
and scandalously impudent band of imposters early Christian
writers were—how filled to the brim with fanaticism and intoler­
ance ? 0$e Sant Denis attests, that himselfand the sophist Apo-
Digitized by Google
47
lophane, were at Heliopolis, or the town of the Sun, when he saw
an eclipse of the Sun when the moon was at full!—that is contrary
to the nature of things,—and that the eclipse happened at the death
of Christ, or the Sun ! He affirms that he distinctly saw the moon
place itself under the Sun, where'it remained three hours, and
when satisfied with its visit, travelled back again to the east, or
point of opposition, where it should have been fourteen days after!
When such trashy stuff as this is fabricated, and a market found
for it, it is a pretty good proof that there are a number of simple­
tons ready to purchase such folly; and from our experience of hu­
man nature, we are warranted in saying—that where fools are,
there will knaves be—“ where carcases are, there will eagles be
gathered together
Printing has been called the art preservative of all others;
four centuries have elapsed since men received so valuable an aux­
iliary in the acquisition ofknowledge,—but even now we may only
printthatwhichisorthodox, and deemedrightandtrue by ghost-seers
who hold the power of the state. Those who write in defiance of
the phantom orthodoxy, must do it at somerisk; but when the press
shah be free, and men permitted to speak and write all they think
and know, it is impossible that the Christian superstition can
maintain its ground. Christian preachers dread inquiry, because
inquiry must sooner or later destroy error. What people, aided by
a free press and illumined by knowledge, could believe the ridiculous
fictions above related, or the miracles said to have been performed
by Christ and his disciples ? Who, save a wretched fanatic, would
prijle himself upon the abandonment of reason, or have faith in idle
tales that even well-instructed children laugh at, and despise?
Pope Leo X. is reported to have said—" This fable of Christ ma-
keth us rich.” Aye, truly does it! and ifthe divinity of a religion is
best proved by the fatness of those who teach, and the leanness of
the taught—if the luxury of the dupers, and the squalid wretched­
ness of the duped, prove that a religion is of God, then is Christi­
anity of God.
The prodigies said to have been performed by Simon the magi­
cian, and the full faith the people seemed to have in that tissue of
imposture, shews clearly that in those times the people believed
all they were told to believe. If we read with attention the mar-
Digitized by Google
A%
tyrology offheotbree first centuries, and the history of the miracles
of Christianity, to shall have good cause jto;crimson with shame,
that by imposture on the one hand, and blind credulity on the
other, the human race should have been so foully dishonored !—
and is it upon such a basis that'any will now have the boldness to
support the existence and history* of a, god,^-or mari.divine, of
Whom no Writer of senses—no writer strange tp his sect—-has spo­
ken—in times too when his miracles, had they been performed,
would have astonished the Universe !—when we are actually
compelled to search in a book written a hundred years after by
Tacitus, a Pagan historian, for the etymology, of the word Chris­
tian, in order, to prove the existence.of Christ; or, to interpret by
a pious fraud a passage in Josephus,long since known to have been
an interpolation ?
- When we shall have sufficiently explained the legend*—when we
shall have shewn that its authors have collected different marvel­
lous fictions, which lay scattered up and down in the works of the
adorers of the Sun—that Atys, Adonis, Hercules, and Christ, were
only different names for the same personification, and nothingmore
than the Sun, worshipped under different names—when we shall
have.compared their characters, the points in which they agree,
noting at the same time any disagreements, and trace them to
their causes, the fallacy of relying upon bold lying records of spi­
ritual imposters, in opposition to such a mass of proofs, will at
once appear ridiculous and vain. *To explain the fable of the
death and resurrection of Christ, by collecting and bringing under
one head, legends of different religions, which, bom in the East*
have been propogated in the West about the time of the first Chris­
tians, will be the first great division of our subject. Should we be
successful thus far, and prove beyond the reach of cavilj that the
theology of the Christians is founded upon the same basis as that
of the Indians, the Egyptians, and the Greeks, we shall then enter
more at large upon the second grand division of the subject, which
we have simply touched upon in this Letter, with a view to remove
some misconceptions that many of our readers, we are told, have
fallen into.
London: H. Hetherington, Strand; A. Heywood, Manchester; and all Bool­
' sellers.- -J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Sitiallbrook Street, Birmingham. '
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
B T IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS.
L e tter 6. w eekly . O n e P enny.
u I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
God formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Saviour.**
—Isaiah XLIII. 3,10', 11. .
u And they brought forth the images out of the house ofBaal, and burned
them.1*
—2 Kings X. 26.
C hristians, ------------
It seems reasonable to suppose that human beings observed the
operations of matter upon matter—the action and re-action of the
particles of the universe, long ere they had the power by abstrac­
tion to arrive at a conception, however rude, of Deity. They
adored the world they taw, before they had any distinct idea of a
Creator they did no* see; the worship, therefore, of the Universe
and its parts, seemed to have preceded, nay, it is past doubt, was
the origin or root of all others—giving birth to certain religious
sentiments, when men were rude, uncivilized, or in what is com­
monly, though erroneously, understood by the terms, natural
state; such religion was oalled natural religion.
The turfwas then men’s fragrant shrine,
Tbeir temple, Lord, that arch ofthine;
Their censor’s breath the mountain air,
And silent thoughts their only prayer.
Ofall the phenomena which bewildered and astonished the half­
savage beholder, none could have been so suggestive and inspiring
as the machinery of the heavens,—the secret springs of which,
baffle the ingenuity of the curious, and are an eternal record of
Digitized by Google
human ignorance : for if the heavens declare the glory of God*—
they equally publish the ignorance of man, who has ^azed till his*
sight aches aï {hem ; but while feeding his eyes,‘his understanding
hath not been fed ; and if men have conceived Of the causes of
these wonders, they have done so at the expense of the Deity—in­
asmuch as presumptous philosophers have degraded God by re­
ducing him to the level of their own conceptions—instead of ele^
vating their conceptions up to God !
To see the minutest insect made sensible to sight by the micro-*
scope, is, to behold a wonder; but what words can describe the
mingled feelings of awe and delight, which seem as struggling for
mastery in the mind of the true man, when he sees the morning
Star of day, as it seems to rise majestically in the east—dissipating
the shadows of night—sailing above the horizon—infusing joy and
life and gladness by its presence—heralding in the day, and arous­
ing Nature herself from her drowsiness ! Who, not hooped about
by a heart-chilling stoicism,corrupted by affectation, or degraded by
fanaticism, but must feel a thrill of ecstacy, and long to know how
such things can be ! Greatis thevanity ofthat manwho struggles to
free himselffrom the shackles which hind his body and soul, though
in his efforts to do so, they eat into his flesh, making him, suffer the
torments fabled of the damned ! Vain are all stragglings against
the nature of things—which is one and eternal—giving birth to folly
and its hideous train of falsehood, treachery, racking doubts and
fears—making the garden earth a thorny wilderness !
Darkness to the mentally blind, was and is a mystery ; the
witching time of night was a time of terrors to the uninitiated into
the causes thereof,—for the phenomena weknow not the cause of,we
instinctively fear ; hencethescienceofcausation is that which would
tend more than ought else to disabuse us of vain alarms,—as wise-
men fear no darkness, save that of ignorance, but rather woo and
love it, when they would enjoy negative bliss, “ the balm of hurt
minds/' compose themselves to sleep, and shut out for a season the
remembrance of their toils and anxieties. If, to the superstitious,
darkness and dread came hand in hand, like twin fiends, light must
have been welcomed as the harbinger of exceedingjoy ; and the
Sun being the never-failing source of light and heat, which is the
principle of life, how can we wonder that the splendid luminary
should have been hailed as a deliverer !—chanted by the poets as
die generatorand preserver of all things, and by theeommon people
50
Digitized by Google
«I
ama living god—eternally occupied in combating with and chasing
mw*j the spirits of evil or darkness—those destructive foes of the
¿humanrace!
The Sun neither rises nor sets in reality—nor does it move from
-east to west, hut merely appear* to do so. N o! the Sun is ever
the same, and like to itself; to our eyes, it carries an air of perpe­
tuity and unchangeableness—seeming to bear upon it the seal of
eternity! Our first fathers have not seen its beginning—our re­
motest posterity will not see its end! Were it annihilated, or
did its rays no longer penetrate, as now they do, the very inner­
most recesses of matter, all would be a stiffened heap—without
form, and void ! Generations rise from the earth—strut and fret
their hour upon the stage of human affairs, and pass again to that
-earth from whence they sprang. Thus doesmatter, the common mo­
ther of all—most unnaturally, as to some it seems—devourher own
offspring. We are bom and die; scarcely are we bom—hardly do
we spring from the common womb, than we return to it all entire;
and when decomposed; our bodies’ wreck furnishes material for
new existences!—and so short is the span of mortal bliss, or
woe—so quickly does death tread upon the heels of life—that the
wonder only is, that men should not long since have shaken off
fear, and learned to endure the grim monster, which “ must come
when it will come/' But if death be the common lot of all that is
on earth—not so with heavenly things, which give no indication of
progress or decay, improvement or deterioration. The Sun seems
as bright—grand—imposing now, as in any former tim es!—redo­
lent of beauty, strength, and majesty!—that to the imaginative and
ardent mind it may to-day appear as .to the first mortals who
beheld its lustre, and were dazzled by its brightness!—the fiery-
chariot of an Eternal God, who chaseth before him through the
etherial vault, the demons of night and of evil!
The basis of all natural religion, is, and ever was, the Universe*
or great whole, which in former ages, was worshipped as one beinjg
made up of many parts, under names and forms innumerable; and
not, as now, considered as distinct from the Deity. To suppose a
Deity distinct from the Universe,capable ofcreating it, was an effort
of the mind which, as before noted, benighted heathens were not
equal to; accordingly, we find thpAthe worship ofthe materialworld
was the fin t worship, which* however unreasonable and absurd,
was of a tangible character j $nd though injurious, was but nega^.
51
Digitized by Google
t o
tively so; for the insufficiency of human mason to comprehendby
any kind of abstraction the attributes of Defy, makea m eaty for
refuge to revelation; but then, the heathens had no revelation^ ge­
neral or special, save that which Nature herself gives to all: "but
'Nature’s revelation teaches not the existence of a God, but rather
leads the mind to a Pantheistical philosophy, which is a philosophy
that in fact, shuts out all, save matter and motion, from the world.
N o; if we desire a proofof God’s existence, we must seek it in the
Scripture,where we read that God,by the mouth of Moses,said unto
the Children of Israel, “ And I will take you to me for a people;
and I will be to you a God; and ye shall know that I am the
Lord your God, which bringetb you out from under the burdens of
the Egyptians.”
' If in this our day science is in its cradle, and rocked by super­
stition—if philosophers with all their boasted knowledge, are igno­
rant—whether heat be itself a substance, a subtle fluid,or merelya
condition of substances—if none, however learned, can teach us
the precise nature of the brilliant Star which seems to be the parent
of life and vegetation—if we are ignorantwhether the Sun is a ball
offlame, or as thought by Anaxagoras, a huge red hot stone, or as
others, that it is an opaque body, more or less dense, surrounded
by an atmosphere of a brilliant and luminous appearance, the grand
source of heat and light, or as the heathens supposed, and millions
now believe, that it is the seat or residence of intelligent deities—
it will be perhaps wise in us to hazard no conjectures upon the sub­
ject, which would bebut adding one more to themillion and oneidle
theories which have been ventured thereon, proving littie else but
‘the ingenuity of those who use them. N o; it is rather our duty
to clap an extinguisher upon so curious a spirit, which contenteth
not itself with things, the nature and properties of which lie open to
our investigations. Scripture is dumb as to what the Sun really
is ; and however unsatisfactory what is therein contained,1touching
the matter, may be to inquisitive philosophers, it has the negative
merit of being as good as any other. All we are there told being,
that God made the Sun, the Moon, and the Stars, together with all
things else; and “ he made two great lights; the greater light to
rale the day and the lesser light to rale the night; he made the
Stars a l so b ut , as before hinted, what is contained in the book
of Genesis affecting the creation, is a mere cosmogonic fable, most
Digitized by Google
likely picked op by Moses in bis commerce with the Egyptians;
ss we reed thatbe was skilled on all:the learning:of that people.
The god of day, or the godSun, wasthe great god ofthe ancient
world, and has been worshipped by every people on the globe; we
shall find that k prevailed in both continent?—th$ old as well as tfi?
new world, and was personified in all the sacred allegories, and
poetically described as suffering the destiny of mortals; everywhere
we read of the birth, death, and resurrection of the Sun ; he had
his cradle mid his tomb, whether palled Adonis, Osiris, Hercules,
Bacchus, Atys, Chrishna, Mithra, or Christ!
In Ethiopia the worship of the Sun prevailed, and temples of a
most magnificent character were erected in honour of that deity;
and symbols of bis power, strength and glory, were placed therein
to receive the homage of the adorers; but the people of Ethiopia
were black, and among them, as we may readily suppose, black
was the most orthodox and beautiful of colours: and, as when hu?
man beings personify their ideas, and *fgiye to airy nothing a local
habitation and a name”—wheq they conceive of good and bad dei­
ties—they invest them with all those attributes which to themselves
seem good or bad; hence in our own clim&te,gods and angels are
delicately fair, with ruddy complexions, sweet and most heavenly
countenances: whereas the devil aqd his imps are of a dense sooty
blackness; strange heaps pf ugliness, oddly compounded of every
Conceivable deformity; so that if the deformed, whether in body or
mind, are objects of pity, then the devil and his unfortunate com­
panionsshould keep our eyes eternally moist;and truly,as one of our
modem orators has expressed it—these devils, as depicted by Chris­
tians, are much ill-used gentlemen. But in Ethiopia, devils were
white, so that, while we say “ black as the devil,” they, with equal
propriety, and certainly, to us it appears, with more elegance, say
“ as white as the devil”—themselves being black, and thatof cotnrge
being the right colour, they could not do les9 than dress up their
gods in the best manner, and with the choicest material they had;
while the unfortunate devils were made not unlike a very ugly,
•pale, and deformed Englishman, with certain additions, according
to the taste of individuals.
A modern writer* of great research, has the following curious ob~
eervatkms relating to Chrishna: “ On the colour of the gods of the
anoients, and of the identity of them all with the god Sol, and wi£h
f Mr, Godfrey Higgins.—See Anac&lypsis y. 1, p. 138-9»
Digitized by Google
54
the Chrishna ef India, nothing more need be said. The reader
has already seen the striking marks of similarity in the ¿islory ef
Chrishna, and the »tortee related ofJews in the Romish and Hereti­
cal books. He probably will not think that their effect is destroyed,
ns Mr. Maurice flatters himself by the word Chrishna, in the In­
dian language signifying black, and die god being of that colour,
•when he is informed of what Mr. Maurice was probably ignorant,
/that in all the Romish countries of Europe, in France, Italy, Ger­
many, &c., the god Christ, as well as his mother, are described in
their old paintings and statues to be black. The infant god, in the
arms of bis black mother, his arms and drapery white, is himself
perfectly black. Jf the reader doubts my word, he may go to the
.Cathedral at Moulds, to the famous Chapel of the Virgin at Lo-
retto, to the Church of the Annunciator, to the Church of St. J¿a-
zaro or the Church of St. Stephen at Genoa, to St. Francisco at
Pisa, to the Church at Brixen in the Tyrol, and to that at Padua,
to the Church of St. Theodore at Munich, in the two lastofwhich,
the whiteness of the eyes and teeth, and the studied redness of the
lips are very obseryable; to the Church and to the Cathedral of
Augsburgh, where are a black virgin and child as large as life ; to
Rome, to the Borghese Chapel Maria Maggiore, to the Pantheon, to
a small Chapel of St. Peter’s, on the right-hand side on entering,
near the door,—and in fact, to almost innumerable other churches
in countries professing the Romish religion. There is scarcely an
old church in Italy where some remains of the black virgin and
black child are not to be met with.” The same author observes
that “ the Romish Chrishna is black in India, black in Europe,and
black he mijst remain, like the ancient gpds of Greece, as we have
just seen. But, offer all, what was he but their Jupiter, the second
person of their trinurti, or trinity, the Logos of Parmenides and
Plato, an incarnation or emanation of the Solar power!” So much
for the black virgin and her black child, formerly worshipped by
the dark races of India, and even now adored in our Catholic
churches—the devotees little dreaming that the black god Chrishna
was but a symbol of the Sun, and that the black virgin mother was
nothing more than the virgin of the constellations, painted black,
because, as before observed, that was the national colour; had the
people been green, their gods, angels, and virgin mothers would
have bien the colour ofgrase. ,
The idea of a son born of a.viryijirmoiksrycleariy reletes té the
Digitized by Google
55
*Sun, which our readers will at once allow, when they areInformed
fhWltffegefe past, on tfce55fh of: December, precisely at midnight,
Which appeared above or tipon the horizon, and
s&ft&t4bpreside at the opening or commencement of the new so­
lar revolution, was the virgin of the constellations. The Snn waa
said to be born at the solstice, or the standing still of the Sun in
winter, after which it seemed to retake its route towards our hemis­
phere, and re-unite itself to the virgin at the grand fete of the As­
sumption, or there-union ofthe motherwithher son. It is an inter­
esting fact,that the Sun, called sometimes Chrishna,sometimesAtys,
eomethnes Adonis, and sometimes Christ, appeared in the heavens
to pass from the womb of the virgin of the constellations at the
very moment that we celebrate his appearance in the world, or his
nativity. No fact in history is better established than this—that
it was customary, in times past, to represent the Sun under the
emblem of a newly-bom infant, at the solstice of winter, when the
great luminary seemed to have so little force, that it was aptly typi­
fied by the weakest of all creatures—an infantjust passed from the
Womb ofits mother. Let our Christian readers bear in mind that
the worship of the virgin and her child, was common in the East,
ages before thegenerally received account ofChrist's appearance in the
flesh; that the god Sun, or of day, was adored under the name of
Bacchus in Thrace, Greece, India, Arabia, and Asia Minor; un­
der the name of Osiris in Egypt, of Mithra in Persia, of Adonis in
Phenecia—and all the ancient authors who treat ofthese subjects,
confess that Bacchus, Adonis, and Osiris are mere symbols of the
Sun, under different names, as Pan was a symbol ofthe Universe !
It is impossible to walk ten yards in Egypt without at once see­
ing that the genius of its ancient people led them at all times to
give an Outward and tangible form to their astronomical specula­
tions. Personification of the apparent strength, grandeur, and
motion of the heavenly bodies, was the very son! and basis of their
theology. The gods of the Egyptian priests were material gods;
this is proved by the admirable writings oftheir poets and philoso­
phers. Thus we find that Sirius, or the dog. star, was honoured
under the name of Anubis, and in the form ofa sacred dog, worship­
ped in their temples. It was this star that appeared above the
horizon just before the periodical inundation of the Nile; and
seemed to warn the Egyptians of the approach of the inundation;
and as dogs are the most faithful and watchful of all animals, it re-
Digitized by Google
cfcived the appeliatìon dog stai, or ^ e^ péàbf af/vu|*
ture no# fbutid in South Afferà,
cnopterous, was one of the sacred birds of the Egyptians. The spar­
row-hawk was typical ofthe Sun f thè Ibi*the Moon ; and cats are
even now held sacred by that singular people ; indeed, so great is
their devotion to those cWttffea^tKat We^ èyejl^p^stifeywccident
to destroy one ofthem, if mi£hrcefet bun hid life., ^ ^
In Egypt was erected the famous temple in the town of the Sun,
or Heliopolis ; wherein was placed a Statue ofthe gad'Ofday. /^Ve
are told it was splendidly ornamented, and represented a beardless
young man, with one arm elevated, holding ih h& hand a whip,
in the attitude ofthe driver of a chariot ;. in his left was a thunder­
bolt and a bundle of ears of com : such was one of the Egyptian
symbols of the Sun in their ancient temple.
We learn from Cheremon, and the mostlearned Egyptian^priests,
that the ancient priests of their nation admitted no causes nor ex­
istences independent of.the universe itself; but acknowledged for
gods,the Sun,the Moon, and the Stars,which composed th^ zodiac;
and all those which by their rising and setting .marked the division
of the signs; their subdivision into decans, the horoscope, and
the Stars which presided over it, which were called chiefs of the
sky. They assure us that the Egyptians regarded the Sun as a
great God, architect and moderator of the universe ; explaining
not only the fable of Osiris, but all other religion* fables, by the
Stars; their motions, their appearance, and disappearance, by the
phases of the Moon ; the increase or the diminution of her light,
by the progressive march of the Sun, by the division oftheheavens,
and the division of time into two great parts ; the cue affecting the
day, the other the night; finally, by the action of physical causes,
which they considered as the sovereign arbiters of human destiny,
that they honored by sacrifices, and to which they raised images.
Our readers will we trust now understand why it was men became
idolators, and worshipped many gods ; but they will also not fail
to perceive, that to admire the operations of Nature, and to consi­
der it a9 unique and one, was not idolatry ;which can only truly be
said to have commenced when men forsook Nature, and blindly
adored the lifeless block of wood or stone as a real God; when it
was merely a symbol or sign. . ;
London: H. Hetherington, Strand; A. Heywood, Manchester; and all Book­
sellers. J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Sm&llbrook Street, Birmingham. ***
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE O
FCHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEIXG,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN .A SERIES OP LETTERS,
. ‘ FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OP ALL DENOMINATIONS.
liETTBR 7. , WEEKLY. ONE PENNY.
“ I,am the Lord thy (rod, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
God formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3,10, 11.
r*
*He removed the high places, and brake the images, and cut down the groves,
and b^ake in pieces the brasen serpent that Moses had made : for unto these days
'.the children of Israel did bum incense to it: and he called it Nehushtan.”—
i Kings XVIII. 4. . . . ,
C hristians, * ------------
* Our bare assertion—that the worship of the ancient world was
Pantheistical—that the people of all climes, and every part of the
giQbe, adored as gods, angels,or fiends, the Universe, and the parts
thereof—will have little weight, unless supported by well defined
evidence, which we now propose to furnish. This position must
be made good before we proceed to occupy another; and though it
would undoubtedly be far easier to gallop over the course by con­
tenting ourselves,with mere assertion—such haste would not be
speed; and all lovers of truth will agree that it is wiser to proceed
dowdy but surely, than to go ever so fast out ofthe right road ,*and
certainly no man of liberalmind—none, save the narrow and con­
tracted intellect—will grudge us a fair opportunity to prove the
absurdity and ignorance of.those who believe in Christ, and think
to.wash out their sins in the blood of the Lamb!
Could a goodly array of names, ranged in support of error, make
that error respectable—could eloquence and learning make black
appear green, or some other colour, according to the taste of the
Digitized by Google
expounder—or, if-the truth or Msehobd of a dbctrideis in arr^-
wjse determinable by the number of boôks written ià shpportofit,
or the confidence and self-sufficiency of those who teach—then are
the dogmas held by Christians sublime and heavenly. Thousand»
of volumes have been written to prove the reality of Christ’s mis­
sion, ahd with very many, thé notibn holds that where quantity is
there quality must be ; sq that, with .such, big books carry with
them their own justification. Now, we freely declare, that if any
parties expect a big book from us, they will be disappointed ; for
our study is to concentrate—not to diffuse,—to collect the scattered
rays of truth into one small focus, and as a moral Archimedes,
burn up the vessels of error. Multum in parro—q, great deal in a
small compass is what we desire to give. The worshipper of old
authorities, merely because they are old, wilt not follow in ©ur
train ;for no authority,ancientormodem,will be here acknowledged
save that consonantwith right reason, and wearing upon it the seed
or mark of experience. If the sanction of names^ ■ eminent in thé
Christian world, is to prevail againstthe teachings ofhistory,sacred
and profane, our little workwill be beaten “allthe world to nothing,**
and it will remain undoubted that Christ did live and was a god in-'
carnate—was born of a virgin—and a real bonafide descendant o f
Abraham—conversed with the doctors of the Jewish temples—waa
crucified three times in three different places, as stated in Scripture,
and of course ascended into- heaven, at least an equal number of
times, as such authority might equally decide, andmake it believed
too, that upon a certain occasion it was broad day at M l midnight V
To our evidence. ’
We read that at periods very remote, the Blemmyes, situated'
upon the confines of Ethiopia, immolated to the god Sun, human
victims The Island of Nasala, near the territory of Ichtyopages,'
was consecrated to that star ; and so superstitiously was it rever­
enced, that none dared to approach so awful a place, or profane by*
their footsteps that holy ground. * ’
The Carthaginians invoked the Sun as a witness in their treaty*
with Phillip, son of Demetrius*—the Sun, the Moon, the Earth, the*
rivers* the meadows, and the waters were their divinities». Massis-*
nassi, when thanking the gods that Scipio had arrived in his em-1
pire, addressed himself to the Sun, as Agamemnon in Homer sacri­
fiées to the Sun and to the Earth.
All the inhabitants of the immense African continentrevered the
Digitized by Google
San and the.Moon as the two grand divinities. The inhabitants
of Congo, Angola, the Peak of TenerifFe—all joined in one wor­
ship—the worship of Nature. We have this on the authority of
4hetSpaniards, who first visited them.
. The Caabah, before the eoming of Mahomet, was a magnificent
temple, consecrated to the Moon ; andthe black stone, so fervently
Jrisped by Musselmen at the present day, is pretended to have been
part ofan.anpient statue of Saturn.' This most ancient of all thé
gods wassymbolized by a serpent with its tail m its mouth,signify­
ing that time neither bad beginning nor end,—an idea aptly typified
by a circle> The god was represented with a scythe in his right
hand ; for that time, while itselfever the same, “without change
or shadow of turning,” mows down all things else. The fable
relates that Saturn devoured his own offspring—by which is meant,
¿bat time gallow s all things, though nothing is added, nothing
diminished, firpm the sum.totalof matter,by the different forms and
existences such matter assumes. *
TJhe ^prs^ip of the Arabs was Sabisai—a worship universally
spread in tljp East,—the Sky and Stars were the great objects of
adoration.. The Moon was an object of special worship. By the
§a&tyceu&ijt was called Cabar, or great ; and the crescent yet oma*
ments the religious,temples of the Turks.
Sabi^m vfas the system of the Chaldeans ; and all the orientals
pretend that Ibrahim? or Abraham, was educated in that doctrine ;
th^sjmns story ; whereas Ibrahim, or Abraham, is a purely
fabulous character,and all that is related in Genesis thereupon, is
allegory. Let the reader remember what is said by Saint Paul, that
* God quickeneth the dçad, and calletb those things which be not, as
tfiopgfi thcy,weare.” This we know was the.case “ when all were
children and were in bondage under the elements of the world/
Vain are the attempts to, conciliate such fables with the facts of
history, and barren ofgopd results,producing only a moral abortion
in the shape of a roraautic fictitious philosophy. St. Augustine fell
intp this error, and most inpq^stently maintained the existence of
Christ as a real pe^onage—acknowledging his mission as Saviour
of the world at the very moment he declared the two first chapters
of the book of Genesis were allegorical !—but what reader, not
blinded by fanaticism, can fail, to see that the two first chapters
of the book of Genesis are the fundamentals upon which the belief
in Christ rests. To give upthe literal meaning of those chapters,
Digitized by Google
to declare as Augustine did, that all was fabulous -pure romance
—is at once to give up the literal history of Christ, Which is based
upon it. ( r
Well might Beausobre say that Augustine abandoned the Old
Testament tothe Manicheans,by declaring that it would be im post
ble to believe the Scripture as it is written, without wounding trim
piety, and attributing to God acts that would beheld disgracefulin
men, and yet more unworthy in a Creator or Ruler of the Uni­
verse. The story about Abraham was first told and first believed
in the Bast—the very fountain of allegory; and if we dwell* upon
it, it is with a view that all may know the true spirit of the gospel ;
besides, the history of Adam and Eve, Abraham and Christ, must
all stand or fall together; for if Adam did not fall from a state Cf
innocence, as is generally supposed, Christ’s death upon the cross,
as an expiation or atonement, rendered necessary by the fell, fe
clearly absurd. If Abraham never existed, how can Christ have
been his son?—and yet we read in the neW TestatntUti—* The
book of the generation bfJesus Christ, the sonof Datdd/thfe SC*of
Abraham/' For the honour of Moses, and the sake of right rea*
son, we must recur to allegory. In the 12th chapter of Gebesis
We read, ^And the Lord appeared unto Abram and said, unto
tby seed will I give this land ; and there builded he an altar unto
the Lord,who appeared unto him/' “ And the Lord plagued Pha­
raoh and his house with great plagues, because ofSarai, Abram's
wife." The idea of the Lord God of the Heavens and the Earth,
who can measure the waters ofthe globe in the hollow ofhis hand,
plaguing Pharaoh about Abram's wife, is preposterous and absurd !
In the chapter which precedes this, there is a ridiculous story about
Babel, in which we are told that in those times the whole earth was
of one language and of one speech ! uAnd they (the people) said,
go to, let us build us a city, and a tower whose top may redch up
unto heaven; and let ns make us a name, lest we be scattered
abroad upon the face ofthe earth. And the Lord came down to $oe
the city and the tower, which the children of men builded."' The
idea of an omnipresent God “ coming dowT
n to see," is comical
enough : a God that is everywhere, taking a trip from the clouds,
to see a tower that, ten miles from the earth, to ordinary optics,
would have looked like an ant hill, or a dustheap,—besides there are
neither tops nor bottoms in Nature—upsnor downs; but nothing is
difficult with believers, who, while they one moment declare that the
Digitized by Google
61
heaven^ofheavens eaunot contain their God, the next moment re­
present him, not exactly like Plato's man—an animal without fea­
thers, but with two wings growing out of his shoulders, flapping
between earth and heaven,bearing,assome onehas observed, a most
scandalous^ profane, and impious likeness to the old Pagan Jupiter.
* Go to, (said the Lord) let us go down and there confound their
language, that they may not understand one another's speech."
Now, we ask any sensible reader, whether it is not enough to shock
all 9ense ofpropriety to interpret such language literally f There
wassomemagnificence in the conception ofJupiter hurling his thun­
derbolt, and Neptune with his trident, exciting and calming by his
will, the immense occean of waters; but a literal interpretation of
the book of Genesis is horrid blasphemy, if anything can be blas­
phemy. The metamorphosis of Jupiter with the Greeks, as that of
Vishrtou with the Indians, are ridiculous enough, but are certainly
entertaining: but who can he entertained by stories which degrade
hctnan conceptions of the Deity ? Well might the apostle say,
* there is none that understandeth—there is none that seeketh after
God l”
The idea of a Deity, “ who covereth theheaven with clouds, who
prepareth rain for the earth, who maketh grass to grow upon the
mountains'’—the uncreated—the eternal—the Holy one of Israel!
promenading in a garden, crying out to Adam—the man whom he
had made—u Where art thou!” as though omnipresence needed
such information! and after Adam was found, and had called Eve
(the motherof all), “ Unto Adam also, and to his wife, did the Tiord
God make coats of skins, and clothed them!" Strange employ­
ment for Deity; but the truth is, all shocks and offends when read
as matter of fact,—all is pleasant and ingenious enough as an alle-
• gory. The hidden meaning of the sacred books is worth searching
for; but to believe chapter and verse, according to the letter—to
suppose that u the Lord God took the man and put him into the
garden of Eden, to dress it and to keep i t t h a t he, the Lord God,
caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept, and he took
one of his ribs and he closed up the flesh instead thereof; “ And
the rib which the Lord God had taken from man, made he a wo­
man, and brought her unto m a n t h a t these beings were organ­
ized to reproduce, and yet destined to be immortal! to produce an
infinity of other beings, who w^ould again go on peopling to all
eternity,—all to be nourished by the fruits of a great garden, sorne-
Digitized by Google
m
«Where in the east, but the Lori only now knows where! that an
apple was gathered by our common mother Eve, tempted so to do by
& cunning serpent, " more subtle than any beast of the field,’*which
fatal act caused the Lord to inflict miseries that the tongue of man
^cannot describe, upon countless generations, who were unborn
when this deed was done1—a oxime which ourpriests inform us,
-could only be expiated by another infinitely greater—the nailing
of a god upon a cross!—to suppose all this, is to dishonor Deity,
and degrade human reason!—further, the stain transmitted to us
from our first parents, was only to be washed away by the blood of
Christ—an incarnate god!.! But, nevertheless, though this has
been done—though we have been washed in the blood of the Lamb,
we are not pure—not a stain has come out! In addition to all
this, we are told, that since that terrible event, as a punishment for
the curiosity of the woman Eve, all women are condemned to bring
forth in sorrow and in pain—as though the pains of child-birth
were not a necessary result of her organization, and suffered more
or less by all animals who have not partaken of the fatal apple.
This is of a piece with what is said of the serpent, who was “ cursed
aboverall cattle, and above every beast of the field; doomed to
crawl upon its belly,and eat dust all the days of its life,—as though
a serpent could ever do any thing else but crawl! With regard to
eating dust, serpents are by no means contented with that fare, but
gorge good things most desperately; but, in a figurative sense, or
rather a philosophic one, ail things are dust,—“from dustthey come,
and to dust they all return.” Well might the Christian saints ajid
doctors, the Augustinus, Origins, anil the rest, desire to thfow the
fcook of Genesis overboard, as an allegory ; but in doing so, they
not only disprove the real history of Adam, Eve, and their com­
panion, the wily eloquent serpent, but make an allegory of Abra­
ham, an allegory of Christ, and an allegory altogether; which view
of the subject is precisely that we are endeavouring to support,—
and to call us blasphemers for so doing, is to affix the brand of blasr
phemy upon the respectable and most honored saints and doctors
of the Christian churches ! ' t
To return. Abraham is said by Orientals, to have been a wor­
shipper of the elements, the stars—the religion called Sabism, be­
fore mentioned. It is said that even now, upon the ruins of an­
cient Persepolis, may be seen a mosque called Mesched Eschams,
Qr Mosciue of the Sun. In that town was erected the famous an­
i' . * ■ ; - • . ' *
Digitized by Google
63
eient temple of Bel, or the Sun, the great divinity of die ËabjttmÎ-«
ans., They also worshipped the sky, under the name of Jupiter,-
the moon, and the planet Venus, fire, earth, air, the winds, and the
waters. Each Arab tribe was under the invocation of a star, that
they honored as their protecting deity, or guardian angel >'the1
tribe Asael was consecrated ta the star Mercury ; the tribes Ida*
nms and Lacbarmis honored the planet Jupiter; the tribe Hanna*
was consecrated to the Sun ; the tribe Cennab to the Moon ; the
tribe Misa was under the protection of the star called Aldebaran ;
the tribe Tai under that of Canopus ; each tribe revered one of the
celestial bodies as its tutelary genius.
The fire worshippers of Persia have been immortalised by the*
poets in their religious books : at every page may he seen invoca­
tions to Mithra, or the Sun, to the moon, to the stars, and to the
elements, the mountains, and the trees. The riversand the foun*
tains were the subject of their delicious poetry, which chanted the»
wonders of nature. The fire Ether, which they supposed to circu­
late throughout the universe, was represented in their pyrees,or
fire temples, by the sacred fire kept continually alive by the Magv
cf priests; we find also the same worship among the Greeks, who*
had the sacred; fire in their temples,tended by Vestals, so called
from Vesta, or Earth, models ofpurity and excellence -
Tas fire ww
held tobe themost subtle and pure ofbodies. Nonebutvirginscould
be Vestals,who weregreatly honoured by the Greeks, and otherna­
tions ; hut any departure from the strictest chastity was punished
by braying the unfortunate culprit alive.
By the Persians, each planet was supposed ta contain a portion*
o fthe subtle fluid, so that each planet had consecrated to it a py-
ree, or temple, in which incense was offered up to its honor,— r
Mars, Jupiter, and allthe planets were thus worshipped. We read»
that Darius, before giving battle to Alexander, invoked the god
Mars, and the sacred eternal Are, and on the top of his tent might
be seen an image of the brilliant star of day, enclosed in crystal,
reflecting its scorching rays to an immense distance.
The disciples of Zoroastre, the celebrated Persian sage, address­
ed their prayers to the Sun, the moon, thé stars,—but principally
to fire, as being the most subtle and mostpure. .
How man first applied fire, or even discovered its qualities, is not
known ; hut as fire always produces the sensations of warmth and
heat,and as the Sun’s rays produce analagous effects,that luminary
Digitized by Google
64
w&tobsjdcrgd as the focus of heat, and the generator of life/ t’ykp'
thagoms placed the substance of the divinitj in the fire or fluids
called'Ether, of whleh the Sun seemed to be the source or focus.
Parmenides supposed that the world was enveloped by a crown of
fire or of light—contending that fire was the substance of deity.
Zeno called Ether the great, god. , Cleantbe, another celebrated
ancient philosopher, admitted the dogma of the divine nature of
the Universe,butconsidered Ether as universally active, enveloping
the spheres and penetrating all substances. Aniximander held the
like notion:—oaJKng godsiEther, and the Air. .
That the ancients were aware that heat is life, and the absence
of it death, is certain. ' They also knew that the luminous body
called the Sun,if not hot ksel£ was at least the generator of heat—
thfct is, of Hie. They called heatjtbq soul of man; and as all heat
came from the Sun, the souk of animals were supposed to have no
othef source. They contended that one sort of soul, or life, had.
been distributed to all animals without TeasQn; but intelligent be­
ings had something superadded, to mere life; but as all bodies are
formedfrom one kind of earth, and all living and breathing things
seebut one light, andreceive the same air, so,in like manner,there
is but one soul—which is heat, variously distributed in an infinity
of organized bodies; there being but one intelligence, though un­
equally distributed and mysteriously divided and subdivided: as
the lightof the Sun is one, however ^dispersed upoti the walls,
upon the mountains, and ike millions of divine objects.
Among the ruins of Persspotte maybe distinguished the figure of
a king on his knees before an image of the Sun, and an emblem bf
the sacred fire, that the Magi tell the people, formerly descended
upon the earth. In ancient fable it is related that man was formed
of clay by Prometheus, or providence,, only the artificer miked up
with the mass, particles taken.from different animals—seeming to
intimate that other creatures lived and,breathed before man; dad
the fable runs that he, Prometheus, being desirous to endbw the
*clay he had modelled with vitality, stole up into heaven with a
bundle of birch rods, and kindling them at the fiery chariot of the
Sun, did bring down fire fromdieaven, andenddwed dead clay with
heat, the principal of lifo.—This was the origin of man according
to the fable! ' * . .
London: H. Hetherington, Strand; A. HeywOod, Manchester; and.all Book­
sellers. J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Smallbrook Street, Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
THE
fX B TEN C E OF CHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
M IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GBRMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS.
..................¿-.rVrr— « « ■
■
ir ■rt . r i ;-. . ■
■ ■
;u » ■ i db
Letter 8. weekly. One Penny.
•.ft-ri T. "'in j; ; ■, , ^.... ■ i
u I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
Godibemed, neithera^alltherebe afterme. /, even /, am the-Lord,-andbesides
me there Isno SàvIouV—laAIAH X L tll. à, 10, 11.
“ Every abomination to the Lord, which he hateth, have they done unto their
$ods'; for even their sons and their daughters they have burntin the tire to their
«■ da*- Ite XII. 31.
Christians, ----------- ' ~ '
- Thè story rektted of Jupiter is fabulous—the story of Christ is
30 lessso; the haw of the Pagro refigion was allegory—rod the
foundation of the Càristiro fldth isalltgory ; Jupiter, we read, was
rot to,pieces bythe girot Typhou,who parried away his sinewy
mUoh were afterwards stolen by Merowry and restored to their
Offteek. Jupiter took Metis to wife, when, finding her pregnant^
he (fid r
eafcher up» when he himself did conceive, and from his head
'Spring forth Fallati—anaed* No sane reader ^ill take this,story
fu a filerai (Mae; hat, however it may appear when thus taken,—
a&RE allegtoy it is pleasant and admirable ; for as Typhon signi-
fifedswelling, and sometimes evil, to the Egyptians, the sea, which
they detested, was called Typhon, as Pan signified universality, and
Nemesi* revenge, so Mefiti Pgni^ed counsel, which at pnce gives
us a key to the fable ; for after Jupiter devoured Metis,that is, good
éonntet; he became pregaaftt with wisdom, and from his brain burst
forth Pafias, sometimes called Minerva, the goddessof wisdom.
: .Norie this love ofallegory so heathenish as spine maybe dispo:
Digitized by Google
sed tobelteve, norby any means confined tohisJoriRns oaJS^pl^-
fape^ for the most,valuable philosophiescontained in,the Scriptures,
ai*e concealecfunder the veil of allegory. Whatever sceptics maty
say against the Bible, it is at leastan old book-—a mostuseful record
of ancient times and usages—full of comparisons, allusions, similies,
tropes* metaphors, tables, and parables,—as said by; G#d himself;
“I haye also spoke by the prophets, and I havje n^ultapljted visions ;
and used similitudes by the ministry of the prophets/’ How ab­
surd, then, «must those writersrbe, who would pass off fables qnd
parables as facts and literal truths; this course it is which has
thrown such disgrace,upon teachers*of religion, thai is, multipliers
of visions and venders of similitudes—visions so perfectly ridicu­
lous, and similitudes so imsimilar to anything bearing the impress •
of right reason, that human nature was disgraced thereby; and
truly is it said,a Their throats are asan open sepulchre ; withtheir
tongues they have used deceit; the poison of asps is under their
lips.” :
In ancient times, it was Common to speak in parable; for, as
Lord Bacon observes, “ Hieroglyphics were in use before writing;
so were Parables in use before argum entsthe use of parable, or,
indeed, any form ofteaching, is to illustrate and instruct ; the abuse
ofdt, is in wrapping up and concealing the sense of our speech or
writing,« darkening counsel, by words without knowledge.” From
the Scripture, then, we learn that the Scripture abounds with alle­
gory, fiction, and fable; and from thatsame Scripture we also learn,
that Christ was not a descendant of Abraham, but an ideal embodi­
ment ofgood,—as Satan was an ideal embodiment of evil; nay,it
can be shewn, and shall be shewn, by Scriptural texts, that Abra­
ham never had a real tangible existence—but is an allegorical cha­
racter. Let the Christian reader remember that we are told in the
first chapter of the new Testament, that Christ was the son of
Abraham; we read, “ The hook of the generation of Jesus Christ,
the son of David, the son of A braham but, as shall be hereafter
seen, there never was such a person as Abraham; so that, to talk
about Christ being the son of a man that never existed, is to talk
wildly. Well may it be said, “ There is none that understandeth,
there is none that seeketh after God.”
In due season we shall come to a full consideration of Biblical
history; the arguments it contains against the existence of a bodily
Jesus Christ, are crushing, and amount to moral demonstration;
Digitized by Google
er
nothing can long resist thei/force. 'Yes, thebook sò extravagantly
landed by sòme, and as extravagantly abused by others,—hated by
•the thorough-going Infidel—adored by the thorough-going Believer,
1-^bnt Used by men of wit and sense ; the idol of the spiritualist—
abomination of-the materialist ; the latter rejecting all—the
former swallowing everything here both are right, and both are
Wrong. Neither the mere materialist, nor the mere spiritualist, can
*8fcudy the Bible with fell profit ; they may search the -Scriptures—
they may toil much, and eatch but little : unless they unite and
eease to’run, as heretofore, in parallel lines; for materialism may
%e aptly called the first person of the philosophic trinity ; spiritual­
ista being the son,—for Spirit is born of matter ; and few will deny
that*it is within the compass of human ability to conceive of exis­
tences without motion, substances without spirits, matter without
'toind, body without soul ; but a first-rate spiritualist would be
puzzled to imagine soul, spirit, or sense, without substance, or mo­
tion without parts. 1
Matter, then, in the moral trinity, is the father—spirit is the son,
as begot ofmatter—but reason is the holy ghost,which will reconcile
the lather and the son, shew that they are one, that these three are
•one, that all are one—a trinity in unity, comprising universal unity.
The holy ghost, or right reason, would shew at once that a pea­
cock is a peacock, as materialists insist ; while the holy ghost would
agree with the spiritualist, that in a spiritual sense, serpents might
'speak, and asses discourse most eloquently, as in the case of the ass
c of thfe prophet Balaam. Nor willthe Scriptural text, « The same
hoür wfts the thing fulfilled by Nebuchadnezzar ; and he was driven
from men, and did eat grass as oxen, and his body was wet with
-the dews of heaven, till his hairs were grown like eagles’ feathers,
•and his nails Hke birds’claws,” be any difficulty in the way of the
spiritualist—for he searchéth QOt the Soripture for the letter, but
•the ¿pirite fot the spirit is life ; but the letter killeth : and Paul
speaketh wisely when he saith, «As it is written, I haye made thee
a father of many nations, before him whom he believed, even God,
who quickeneth the dead, and calleth those things which be not, as
though they were so that, although, as said (2nd Tim. 3, v. lb)
« All Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for
•doctrine^ for reproof* for correction, for instruction in righteous­
ness,’- it is only profitableto those who take from materialism that
whichisgood, who cast not off spiritualism, but use it for what it
Digitized by Google
is worth, led by the holy gb&t, or fight raaeqp,,whi<dvtittPghfat*
Jest, person in the rhorpl trinity»¡is tbs fimt,fa;exce)lsws*. Iwidto
Christian be alarmed,for ere we »of,told,that thafastshall,he last»
and the lest shall fee fast ? , . . . . . .. .
Taken literally,no person, of sape mind,can believe that i$aipr .
son’s strengthlay.in.hi»hmr-r>faat hecaught.three,hundred faxes,
or three hundredjaekals (as some natural theologians,n^u qonteud
that facywere); tied their tails together, and setting fae tq them,
sent them amid the standing,corn of the Phihstmea; what is said .
in the book ofJudges,¡notwithstanding. “ And Samson went and
caught three hundred foxes, and took fire-brands, and turned tad
to tail, and put a.fire-brand in the midst, between two tails. Apd
when he had .set the brandson fan, he let them go into fae stand­
ing com .ofthe Philistines, and burnt up both fae shpcka,#»d elan
fae standing corn, with the vineyards and olives.” The character
of Samson,like that of Hercules, is purely fabulous. What is said
about his rending a young lion as a kid, and, he faad nothing in hi#
hand—killing three thousand Philistines with faejawrbpne of an
assr-r-being deprived of his strength,and subsequently of his Ufa,by
the artifices of a woman,—squares exactly .with the stories t»ld
Hercules,.who, like Samson, was destroyed by fas artifices of «
woman, ttnd so enamoured of fighting that when he had ugfaing
else to fight, he amused himself by slaughtering wild besafa, snd
other heroic exercises. . . . . ...
.The Bible is a.booked riddle», parables, allegories, and deep
meanings; almost every line, has a spiritual» as well aamaterial
sense; that whioh.appears, and thatwhich doth not appear,; food
for faith,and foodfor wiadoin; rauk nonsense, and fine philosophy;
according to the.capacities of those who rea<h Nor need our¡rear
dew beinfonned that.the.moat admirabfaphUosophy, if mfacone
edved, hath no advantage over folly. What «an be more absurd
than fae literal interpretation of Scriptural texts; what mpwadjuir
rable than that truly, sublime sense within the heaps whiqhfttr» a
kind of envelope or covering.; transparent to the man possessed
with,the holy ghost,.but opaque, dens«, and impenetrable to the
mental visions of others. Yes, mere idle words age Scriptural
texts, as now used—mere shells, which must be broken ere w« .can
obtain fae kernel of truth. To believe it as ;t ».written, fa,to out­
rage reason, and common sense; it is.to sacrifice judgment upon
the altarof. folly, and. at the same time, ran counter to Biblical
Digitized by Google
69
tests,1wfekli phnaiy tfen üs that the Bible is a book of allegories,
paraMec, similitudes, ated Words, which carry upon the face of them
oabiiense<-^~but when probed and searched into, are found to pos«
seas another; in abort, acaiieth those things which henot, as though
they were*” ■ ■ * •
That «foe Scriptures are muoh abused by unscrupulous men j
that they are ransacked for tests, to support the most impious and
unhply dogmas,is plain; all partieshave used them in turo,and all
found argumentsin support of their views ;—the tyrant an apology
fovbis despotism; the murderer for his cruelty; the debauchee for
his-lUSt; and the deceiver for his Jesuitry. This, which, in the
eyes- of some, is as dhst, rendering them blind to the real merits
and demerits of the book; to foe sharp-righted, will merely shew
thatitis a hook of riddles—much read, but little understood; like
alt ancient writings, disfigured by mysticism; like them, a com*
pound or medley of good and evil—truth and falsehood. The
Bible is asealed book; and foe like may be said of all» or nearly
alVthe books of the ancient poets: for verily, they are books of
wúfide#% of riddles, and of spiritualities, which a mere matter of
fact reader can never eomprehend; in short, foe Testaments, old
and new, are full of many important truths believed to be false—
aod gfca&y falsehoods thought to be triie. }But Us gold ean only to
purgedfrmn its dross by physical labour, so the saving truths, con*
tamed in the Scriptures, can only become foe prive of those who
arc content to p&y foe legitimate price—mental exertion: “ for foe
husbandman that laboureth must be the first partaker ofthe fruits.”
Bid not men most inconsistently bate those who tell'them the
truth»foey would long since have known that no book can be so
written'a* to Contain all truth, and nought but truths besides, the
Bible was written in remote times, when men were just emerging
fromthedarkness ofidolatry. The early Christian fathers were in*
footed by a «upwráfitkmsspirit—“ mere chOdrfen in bondage, under
the elementsofthe world/' “ who observed days,months, limes,and
ye**" Even Origen, one of the most learned Christian writers;
freíd*the opinion, that foe government of the world was presided
over by«gods and spirits. “ I advance boldly (said he) that there
are celestial virtues which have the government of the world; the
one presides ov^r foe earth, the other over foe planets, others over
therivers and the fountains, some others superintend the wind and
the rain.'* Astrology placed a part of foe$e powers in foe stars;
Digitized by Google
thus, the Hyadé* controlled the rams, Osiris the tempests^ Shifts
the great heats, Aries the'flocks and the birds. The Hebrewsand
the Christians supposed that four angels had chargeof the foot
cameraofthe world. The Persians believed that,four greatstare,
which were placed at the cardinalpoints, performed that duty/;sad
their astrologers in like manner accorded the surveillance to lour
planets ; in short, the administration of the universe was divided
between an infinite number of intelligences,—whether called gods,
angels, héros, or geniuses,—all of whom interested themselves,
more or less, in human affairs ; for, with the uninstructed among
the ancients/ wherever motion was, there life was supposed to be ;
and all effects, of which the causes were unknown, seemed to those
Who knew not the mechanism, as intelligent living effects. The
Sun appeared to move ; the savage did not for a moment sup­
pose that it* could move, except by its own. will,—it appeared t©
him, a-huge hill offlame, moving majestically from east to west^-*-*
and he in his simplicity, concluded that the Sun was a living créa»
ture—adored and worshipped it accordingly, and statues were
placed in temples, to represent the force, brightness, and gran*
deur of the great luminary. .
The opinion that the Sun, the Moon, and even the Stars, were
animated and conducted by intelligences, was common among the
Chaldeans, the Jews, the Persians, and the Greeks, as well as the
Phenecians, the Ethiopians, and their descendants the Egyptians.
The Christians placed an angel in each star, and these angels were
supposed to conduct the celestial bodies, and regulate the move»
mentof the spheres. Each ofthese geniuses,or angels, were charged
with a certain department, or particular function ; cold, heat, rain,
dryness, the fruits of the earth, the multiplication of flocks, the arts*
die operations of agriculture, &c., all was under the inspection .of
an angel or a deity.
In the seventh book of the Enead, where Anchises reveals to his
son the origin of souls, and the fate winch attend them afterdeath»
he says—“ You should know oh my sbn ! that thesky.andlhë earth»
the sea, the brilliant globe of the moon, and all the stars,aremoved»
by a principle of life, which perpetuates their existence ; that itis a
great and intelligent soul, spread in all partsofthe vast body ofthe
universe, which mingles with all, and agitates all, by an eternal
motion. It is that soul which is the source of the life of man* of
the flocks, of the birds, and of all the monsters which breathe in
Digitized by Google
71
beSom ofthe waters. The living force which animates them,
femaUKtes fitom an eternal fire, which shines in the sky, and whh&j
held captive in the gross matter of onr bodies, is only developed as
farasis permitted bythe diverse mortalorganizations which deaden
and its activity. At the deathof ea«hanimal, these germs
these portions of the spirit universal, return to their princi­
pie and to their source oflife, which circulatesin the starry sphere/*
^ The Persians had their angel Chur, which guided the chariot of
the Sun ; and the greeks their Apollo, who had his seat in that
star. The theological books of the Persians speak of the seven
grand intelligences, under the name ofAmschapands,winch formed
thedorte^vof'the god of light, called the geniuses of the seven
planets. The Jews made of them, their seven archangels, eVar
present before die Lord. To the number seven of the planetary
sphere, have been added, the fixed sphere, and the circle of the
earth* The Greeks 'attached to these nine muses, who by their
songs produced the universal harmony of the world* The Chal­
deans and the Jews placed in the planetary system, other intelli*
graces, called eherubims and seraphims, &c., to the number ofnine
choirs, who, by their concerts, were supposed to rejoiee the Eternal*
i*The Indians had also their geniuses; who presided in the difier-
SBtregions ofthe world. Their astrological system bad submitted
each city and each town, to the influence of a star; it was natural
for them to suppose that they were the seats of intelligent deities,
who were the souls of the stars, as we find the. sacred books of
the Jews admit a tutelary angel of the Persians, and a tutelary
angel of the Jews. That the number seven is a mystical number,
and bad a relation to the planetary system, was shewn in a former
letter; and in like manner the number twelve, or that of the signs
through which the Sun seems to pass. . ' .• : ■
The worship of Nature and its parts,.was not peculiar to the
Egyptians, but universal in the ancient world. In, the Egyptian
system the world was regarded as a great divinity, made up or
composed of an assemblage of inferior gods, or partial causes,which
were nothing else than the members of the great body called God.
If any curious reader doubt this, let him read the highly poetic
Hymns of ancient authors, as Hesiod, Orpheus, and others, and his
scepticism will be cured; for they allrelate to Nature—the motions
and modifications of matter,“ Let os sing (says Hesiod, when in*
yoking the muses) to the immortal Gods,children ofthe earth, and
Digitized by Google
teratishbd by tbs occean; die brilliant Stars, the inofnwiie vault,«/
fouJbeivonsi 'and die gods that from' it spring; tbfe sea, foe
fi\bm,”Va& .V . . ,
Bran in the comparatively modern theology of the Greeks» who
atole, without acknowledgment,the'gods of Phenecia andof Egypt,
and Who were themselves so largely plundered in turn, by the first
Christians, we find-that the-parts ofthe universe—foe Various surtax
audihe divers works,weredividedhmonga erowddfdeities. Jupiter
teas master ofthe heavens, yet submitted, as all the other gods, to
Arte ordestiny, Pan'sfatal Sisters. »Pluto presided over the lower
fcegooafe, or hefl; which meant, in, former times, a place for the
dead;-foht einoe tie introductionof the dbotrine ofthe immortally
afthesoul, ahd the opmiona which gcew out of that doctrine, die
word hell has been wrested Iran its tnle signification,—and, from
being a'place for the dead, religious imposture has fnede of
plate 'for the damned!—a fiery bottomless pit—to the bottom of
which, nevertheless, we are told, the devil lies chained!! Who
has notread ofthe angry god Neptune, and his trident, birring;up
by his will, the waves ofthe mighty ocean ? Vultea was thegod
of fire, to whom the works of the voluptuary aa^ aire^titiribu!ted#
He was also the husband of Venus, or goddes of love,—which
teems to intimate, that luxury and a certain kind of that /pasrioty
are wedded' to each other. Diana presided over the chaos, Ceres
Wfcs the goddess o f harvest, Bacchus was the god ofwine, and pro­
tectedthe vintage,while Minerva,the genius ofwisdom, taughtthe
arts, and how to excel ia the production of various fabrics. Eveiy
fountain had its Naiads, the mountains their Oreades; the forests
their Dryades, and Hamadryades. In the Greek Pantheistical,
system, allwas personified; not merely had the parts of the uni­
verse, and the universe considered in its totality, a living, moving
representation, or protecting genius, but even abstractions were
personified. To symbolize the Sun, under the form of the robust
Heteules, or the Moon by the beautiful Isis, was not all; but wis­
dom, folly, rage, and hist, were typified. That Minerva wasthe«
goddess of wisdom, has been already noted. Jupiter and his thun­
derbolts convey an idea of power. Pandora was a highly poetic
personification ofthe evils and the pleasures, the miseries and the
happiness, that the arts of civil fife introduce.
-Londou: H. Hetherington ; A. Heywood Manchester; and all Bookseller«.
J. Taylor, Printer, 39, SmaHirookStreet, Bimiagtau.
Digitized by Google
/
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
AS A¡.HUMAN BEING,» ,
. ' ■. . . (.
■ JEÜESISXIBLE EVIDENCE, J|f A SJMUES OF LJSTTiWS,
ïi.v - ÇRQM A GERMAN'JE^iT, , ' L!
^ *
* ADDRESSED TO CEfRtSTIANS4OP1
' ALL DENOMINATIONS.
V7 =";" ■ 1 ^ ,t -r-yy— : ■ - r - , f
. L tqtteji 9. . l . w eekly . . O ne P en^iy^
J ' t
111 am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was ty>
’Goâ formed, neither shall there be after me. '/, even /, am the Lord, and besides
ifcç.tb«rei* no Savioar.”—Isaiah XLIII. 8, ID, 11. »
a The Simple beUevéffir evetyword ; hut the prhdent men looketh well fto his
.going.”—Peov. XIV. 15. . ,
C hristians, . . ------------ .
That snigular people, the Chinese, worshippedthe Shy,tie "Earth,
and the elements, which they considered as parts of one grand *
whole, one intelligent being, that they called Tangki : the Chinese
rendered np their offerings and prayers at the two solstices.
* Ofthe Japanese the same may be said, as they believed that the
_stars"were animated by intelligences or by Gods. They bave even
now a most splendid temple consecrated to the Sun, and they cele­
brate the fête of the Moon on the 7th of September.
The Talapoins, or the priests of Siam, 1ave the greatest vene­
ration for all the elements and the parts they called sacred of nature;
and that the ancient Indians worshipped like the Persians a sabred
fire, is wéîl known to all readers. This sacred fire was produced
by-drawing the Sub’s rays into one focus upon the summit of a
stupendous mountain, regarded by them as the central point of In­
dia ; and so great was their veneration for the Sun—so heart-felt
their admiration—that according to Lucian, they never rendered
homage to the morning star of day without turning themselves to-
Digitized by Google
74
Wards the East,and preserving the most profound silence ; they also
formed a kind of dance in imitation of the apparent motion of the
brilliant luminary.
The superstitious respectpaidby the Hindoos to the river Ganges,
is matter of notoriety, and annually hundreds of miserable fanatics
comrhitsiiicide by burying themselves beneath.its waters—believing
that river to be a powerful divinity ; these victims of error and,
delusion thus dispose of their wretched lives.
What the Ganges was, and, indeed is, to the Hindoos, the Nile
was to the Egyptians, for these latter worshipped that river, the
source of which was so ardently and anxiously sought after, by
enterprising travellers, as a God, or one of the bénéficientintelligent
causes of nature. Juvenal states that the Egyptians worshipped
plants and onions, which, assertion has been doubted by Millot,
without, as it appears to us, sufficientreason ; for, as to the ridicu­
lousness of such a deification, it is really no more absurd to
worship plants and onions as deities, than to offer up prayers and
sacrifices to the river Nile, which it is past doubt that the Egyp­
tians did. There were altars and temples consecrated to its worship
at Nflopolis or town of the Nile, with a college of priests attached
thereto, who, like the generality of their order, turned the folly and
credulity of the people to account, by swelling their own revenues
at the expense of the pockets of their dupes.
The periodical inundation of the Nile is, indeed, a most extraor­
dinary phenomenon, and as Egyptwouldhave been one of the most
sterile and barren of countries but for such inundations, it is easy
to understand why that noble river should have been devoutly wor­
shipped by the Egyptians,—for though they had a strange antipathy
to the sea, and, indeed, water of any kind, yet they sincerely adored
the river Nile, because, by its overflowings, their dry and arid lands
were moistened and converted into the richest of soils ; and the
Egyptians, like other men, love exceedingly that which benefits
and gives them pleasure, and have a full measure of hate for all
those things which mar their.happiness.
The water ofthe Ganges was a source of innumerable blessings
to the Hindoos ; hence it was esteemed divine ; they also worship­
ped the Sun as a great divinity : this we have on the authority of
Clement of Alexandria. All the Indians, even the spiritualists,
revered those magnificent flambeaux of nature—the Sun and the
Digitized by Google
75
Mood, that they sometimes* called the two eyes of the Deity.
Every year a fête was celebrated in honour of the Sun, on the 9th
of January. They also admitted five elements, to which they have
erected five Pagodas. The Bramins of the present day tend a sa­
cred fire, drawn from the Sun, upon the mountain called Sirou-
namaly, for which fire they have the most profound veneration ;
nor do they evér suffer it to become extinguished. We have good
reason to believe that the fires at this day tended by the priests of
India, have been kept alive through countless centuries.
Enough has been said to shew that the worship of the Sun, the
Moon, the Stars, and the elements, in short, of Nature, as a whole,
and in its parts, was the basis of the religions of Asia. We might
fill a volume with additional evidence, but however desirable this
may be thought by a certain class of readers, such an extensive
review would too fer swell the bulk of this little work, and defeat
the object we have in view—which is, to give an epitome of an­
cient superstitions as they existed in the different quarters of the
globe, with a view to prepare the mind ofour readers for the great
truth—that the Christian religion was borrowed from, the religions of
the East / which were themselves based upon the worship of the
Universe and its parts. Religious opinions have travelled from
Blast to West—civilization has travelled with them, and materially
modified them, but theirgrandfeatures are still the same.
We have seen that the ancient Greeks, according to the divine
Plato, had no other gods than those adored by the barbarians
—as the Greeks used to call them—of other nations, and these
gods were the Sun, the Moon, the Stars, and the Earth. The
choir in the CEdipns of Sophocles invoked the Sun as being the
first of all the gods, and their chief. The Earth was adored in the
island of Cos, and a temple was erected for its worship at Athens
and Sparta, its altar and its oracle were at Olympia. The oracle of
Delphi was originally consecrated to it. Pausanius, an author of
much reputation, has given a description of Greece, and its reli-
• gious monuments, in every page of which may be seen traces of
nature and its worship,—every where we read of altars, of temples,
ofstatues, consecrated to the Sun, the Moon, the Pleiades, the Goat,
the Bear, also to night, to the seas, lakes, rivers, &c.
In Laconia might be seen seven columns raised to the seven
planets. The Sun had his statue and the Moon her fountain in
Digitized by Google
76
the samé country, and the inhabitants óf MégáttojJtílte sacrificed tó
the elements,—particularly to the air. To thè north Wind theÿ
had consecrated á temple and built a sacred wood. ■ * *
The Macedonians adóred Estiá, or fife, and addfresáed praÿefW
to Beds, or the element of water. The celebrated Alexander, Ungf
of Macedonia, sacrificed to the Sün, to the Moon, and to the Earth.
Homer gives the epithet of sacred to several rivers. Nestor and
his companions sacrifice a bull to the river Achelous: Achilles
invokes the north winds and the sweet ¿ephyrs. Thé Greeks con-*
sidered rivers as sacred and divine, as Well becaùsè of the perpetu­
ity or unchangeableness of their courses, as because they seemed
to infuse strength and nutriment into vegetables, watered thé
plants, and allayed the thirst of animals ; and probably, because
water is one of the first principles of nature—one of the most
powerful agents ofthe universal force, or great Béing.
In Thessaly the people honoured and nourished the sacred ra­
ven, in honour of the Sun. A representation of that bird may be
seen at this day upon the religious monuments of Mithra, in Per­
sia. In Roihe and Italy there are ihnumerable monuments of the
worship renderéd to Nature and its principal agents. All the
world has heard of the famous temple of Tellus, or the Earth,
which served for the assemblies of the senate. In Latium was
a fountain consecrated to the Sun, by the side of which Wefe
raised two altars, upon which Eneas sacrificed whfen he arrived in
Italy ; and we are told, that Romulus instituted cëttain games
called games of the circus, in Honour of that Star, which measures
the year in its course, and the four elements, which it unceasingly
modifies by its powerful action. The Emperor Aurelian built at
Rome a temple to the star of the day, that hé enriched with gold
and precious stones, knd Augustus, before him, had caused the im­
ages of the Sun and of the Moon to he taken from Egypt ánd car­
ried before him to Rome in his great triuinph over Anthony and
Cleopatra.
In the history of Sicily we read of oxen cónsecráted to thé San j
and the island itself was once called the Island of the Sun. The
oxen which devoured Ulysses and his conipanions, whén touching
upon that place, were consecrated to that star. In Crete and in
Spain the same worship was formerly found ; in the latter country
special honour was given to the star of the morning and twilight.
Digitized by Google
77
Afi the northern nations, known under the general name of
Celile* Worshipped fire, waiter* air, the earth, the Sun, the Moon,
the Stare, the vault of the heavens, the trees, the rivers, the foun­
tains, fee. Julias Ce&sar, the vanquisher ofthe Gauls, assures us,
that the ancient Germans adored nought, save the visible cause,
étòd< its visible -àgent$,—warshipping nothing more than the gods
they &UW, and by Whichthey were influenced,—the Sun, the Moon,
firé <frVelekn, aadthe earth under the name of Herta.
The eefeWratfed Charlemagne, in his 4tCapitnlaires,” proscribed
tod forbid, tinder pain of the severest penalties, the ancient usage
of placing lighted candles by the sides of trees and fountains, with
k view to-rènder them a superstitions worship. Canute, the great
Danish conqueror of the Saxons, prohibited the Worship that the
people of this Country then offered up to the Sun, to the Moon, to
fire, to miming waters, to fountains, forests, See. We read that
the Franks, Who passed from Italy under the command of Theu-
dibert, immolated the wives and children of the Goths, and offered
thein Sip as a sacrifice to the river of the Po, as the first fruits of the
war. The Germans also had a custom of immolating horses to the
rivers,—nay, it was a common practice with the people of many
uncient nations, to precipitate animals into the waters, as an offer­
ing to the deitiesthey supposed to preside over thèm.
From what has been already written, the careful reader will
gather the fact, that we cannotpointto a single people oftheancient
world, among whom was notformerly established the worship ofNa­
ture and its principal agents ;andin order to complete this abridged
history of ancient worship, we will pass to America,and shew that
all was there new, save the religion; forthe religion of the Aborigines
ofAmerica, like the religions ofallothernations,wasnaturalreligion.
Yes, in America, all presents to the traveller from the old continent,
a newscene, as wellin the orderphysical asthe orderpolitical or mo­
ral. All there is indeed new,—quadrupeds, plants, trees, fruity
reptiles, birds, manners, usages, laws, government,—ài], save reli­
gion, which alone harmonises with that of the ancient world. On
both continents temples were raised to the Sun, the Moon, the sky,
the stars, the earth, and the elements, which were adorfed as living,
moving intelligences.
The Incas of Peru called themselves children of the Sun ; they
raked magnificent temples and consecrated them to that star, and
. zed by Google
78
fêtes were instituted to its honour. In Peru, the Sun was regard­
ed, as well as in Ethiopia, India, Egypt, and Pheneeia, as the
great and eternal source of the best gifts of Nature. The Moon,
was likewise an object of adoration with the simple Peruvians, and
was called the mother of all sublunary things. She was honoured
both as the wife and mother ofthe Sun. Venus, the most brilliant
planet, after the Sun, had also her altars and her worshippers, as
well as the meteors, the lightning, the thunder, and, above all, the
brilliant Iris, or rainbow ; and, singularly enough, in Peru, virgins
were charged, as the vestals at Persia and Rome, with the sacred
and perpetual fire.
The same worship was established*at Mexico, with a pomp and
magnificence that might be expected from a comparatively in­
structed people. The Mexicans adored the sky, to which they
gave the name of Creator, or Admirable ; and we are told that
there was not a single known part of nature that had not its wor­
shippers and adorers.
The inhabitants of the Isthmus of Panama, and of all that
part of America called Terra Firma, believed that there was one
god in the sky, and that god was the Sun, husband of the Moon ;
they adored these two stars as the two supreme causes which re­
gulated the world. It was the same with the people of Brazil, with
the Caribs, the people of the Floridas, the Indians on the side of
Cumana, the savages of Virginia, of the Canadas, and of Hudson's
Bay.
The savages of North America make no treaty without calling
the Sun to witness, as a pledge of their faith, as we have seen done
by Agamemnon, in Homer ; the same is also related by Polybius
ofthe Carthagenians. When the North American Indians smoke
with their enemies, the Calumet, or Pipe of Peace, they push its
smoke towards the Sun. According to the ancient traditions of
these Indians, it was to a certain people called the Pams, that the
god Sun had given the Calnmet.
It would be easy to extend our researches in this direction, but
enough has been said to prove that the worship of Nature should
be regarded as the primitive and universal religion of the two
worlds. To which proofs, drawn from the history of the people of
the two continents, others might be added, did space permit, de­
rived from their political and religious monuments, of the divisions
Digitized by Google
79
and distributions of the sacred and social orders, of their fêtes, of
their hymns, of their religious chants» and from the opinions of
their philosophers. Nor will the reflecting mind fail to be struck
with the fact, that it must necessarily have been that when man
ceased, from causes various, and to us unknown, to assemble upon
the tops of mountains, there to contemplate the wonderful machi­
nery of the heavens, the Sun, the Moon, and the stars,—their first
divinities,—and offered up their incense within the precincts of
their own narrow temples, that they wished to worship there the
images or symbols of their gods, and that wonderful ensemble
called the Universe. Figuratively it may be said, that the starry
heavens descended upon the soils of Egypt and Greece, there to
take a body and a form in the images of the gods, whether living
or dead. We may likewise remark, that all the ancient fêtes were
connected with the grand epochs of nature,and to the celestial sys­
tem. Everywhere we find the solstitial and équinoxial fêtes,—
above all do we find that of the winter solstice, when the Sun seems
to augment its force, and retake its route towards our climate ; also
that of the equinox of spring,, for it is then we have in our hemi­
sphere the long days, and all nature seems laughing and glad, as
though rejoicing in the presence of the Sun, which, by its active
and beneficent heat, sets in motion the springs of vegetation, de­
veloped all the germs enclosed in the chilled earth, and ripens our
irnits.
We now take leave of this part of our subject, as every careful
reader who has attentively considered our formerLetters, willagree
that they fully prove that personification was not merely the basis
of poetry in the ancient as in the modem world, but likewise the
basis of ancient as well as modem religions. It has been shewn
that the Indians, the Ethiopians, the Egyptians, the Greeks, the
Romans, and last, though not least, the Christians, are worshippers
of the Sun under the form of a man. Christian priests, while
denouncing the worship of Atys, Adonis, Bacchus, Mithra, and
Hercules, as the worship of idols, have been too ignorant of
their own religion, and the source from whence it was derived, to
know that the god Chrishna, the black god of India and Ethiopia,
was a mere personification of light ; that Chrishna wasamong those
nations worshipped as the light which enlightens every man com­
ing into the world,—precisely as Christ is worshipped as the light
Digitized by Google
80
iwh^.eiiîigïiteoeth eveiÿ man counagiiito the worid-; that the
Sun, the great fountain of Jight,was persOpified by jChrishna in the
.countries before mentioned, who was said to have been bom of a
virgin, differing only &î>m the orthodox Virgin Mary, in being
black ; because, as before noted, when blacks personify, they per­
sonify iA tbeîr own manner,—tbpte being m s^ftda^d of excellence
or beauty, bui each nation or people jetting up one of their own,
purely arbitrary, delightful enough to then*selvesj-*-but often ugly
and detestableto others. Had allfneq hl^clf,w^ahpuldundoubt­
edly have heard of nought bat sootygfpds,Wge%<wd sppepor in­
telligences ; for, as observed by^wiStyphilosopher*—*rlf God ha?
'mademon after his own image, mien haye not;failed to return the
compliment,and made God, or gods, after their .owu.npqgq.’’ The
Chrisbns of India was the eame ae the Hercules of Egypt and
-Phenecia, the Mithra of Persia, the Bacchus of (ji^qe, and the
-Christ of Europe,—that is,neither more nor less tha# a personified
idea of the strength, virtue, and grandeur of the glorious Star txf
(Day; in short, as we.asserted in our second lyetter,—j*|ÆyihQBj!
-Proofs of this will thicken upon us at every step, andin o^r n$?ct wp
Mahall plück another.,featherfrom fthe wing pfthe orthodox Christian,
:by,showing that the»supposed birth of Christ on Christmasd?ry, Wffp
-dierhirthcf the Sun, or the winter solstice» It w ill:also b6
nmauifest, uot mcrely that the foetival of Chrishpas had i^aorigin in
the heavenly appearances, but in fact, that all religious worship,
jceremonies, fêtes,, and festival, bore a rplatiqn to heavenly phe­
nomena, and the effects, such phenomena produced on the destir
mies. of.men. .
ruThis was thé origin of the fêtes apdrejoici^ at Christmas, or
fthesolstice efwiUter and Easter, or the equinox of spring, hy thp
•worshipped? of Christ, or the Sup ; but though many rejoice—few
dncppre, Thetorn cause of such fêtes and festivals, was unknown,
'except to fee instructed. The ancient priests were well informed
.respecting these things, but modern priests, bewildered by dogmas,
hnow nothingof their origin. May-day sports,, as. as those o f
¿Christmas and Easter, were first enjoyed in ancient times, and
.ware always meant to celebrate certain natural events.
. ¡London: H. Hetherinfçton ; A. Heywood .Manchester j and all Bookseller».
J. Taylor, Printer, 29, SmallVook Street, Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OP ALL DENOMINATIONS.
L etter 10. w eekly . O n e P en n y .
“ I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
God formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even/, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3, 10, 11.
C hristians, ------------
The dogma, so long and strenuously insisted upon by the knowing
among the nations—that opinions which affect religion, or in any­
wise concern our eternal salvation, ibis good to receive without
question, or examination, as a sacred heritage—a divine gift, of
which priests are the donors, too sacred and too divine to be search­
ed or sought into—has lost much of its dominion over the minds of
men; who, since they learned to reason, have discovered that such
a dogma was both mischievous and absurd, tending more than any
other to perpetuate delusion, and make of religion, which ought to
find its support in the sublimest speculations, “ a mere raphsody of
words,”a jargon most discordant and confused, that, instead of ex­
citing the tenderest sympathies ofhuman nature, and giving birth to
actions generous and noble, fill weak-minded men with a fanatical
and most unjust hatred of each other. The teachers of religion
ought to he the most meek, the most humble, loving, charitable,
and disinterested ofmen—shewing examples ofvirtue andprobity—
promoters of peace and good-will among mankind, the terror of the
evil-doer, the champions of the weak, lovers of the sciences and
the arts ; they should be stimulators and directors—not deadeners
and checkers, of the spirit of inquiry, and by their conduct leave no
Digitized by Google
82
room for men to say, “ Ye are forgers of lies; ye are all physician®
of no value ;” to which they sometimes, in very bitterness of spirit,
add, when they see religion converted into an engine of despot­
ism, and its teachers the faithful allies of the spoilers, “ The taber­
nacle of robbers prospers: and they that provoke God are secure;
into whose hand God bringeth abundantly.”
Is it not true, that “ a righteous man hateth lying; but a wicked
man is loathsome, and cometh to shame ?” No orthodox divine
will say nay to this ; but it mustbe evidentthat the man,be he king,
priest,or legislator,who teaches,orcauses tobe taught,thatit is good
to believe, and bad to examine, is an unrighteous man, for he loveth
lying; for what is error but a lie,—which it is only necessary to
know as such, when it will receive its death-blow. Error is only
supported because men think it good—falsehood always wears the
mask oftruth ; but dabblers in human credulity, who go to market
with their cunning, seldom fail to find a purchaser for the wares
they carry—for with traffickers in opinion, what matters who buys,
so thatthey sell; or who loses, so that they gain: they know that to
make others as cunning as themselves would be to break up their
holy and profitable monopoly; and hence it is, that quacks, theo­
logical and political, determinedly oppose any inroads upon an­
cient theology, or ancient kind of government. No, no; they,
stand upon the ancient ways, and say they have a prescriptive right
to torture both body and soul. The theologian loves the good old
times, and the good old things—once so wellenjoyed,when therewas
no hubbub about rights of conscience or liberty of speech; but all
was smooth,oily, and harmonious; when the glory of the church of
Christ blazed forth amid the darkness of the people; when it was
duly taught, and duly believed, too, that “ the fear of a king is as
the roaring of a lion ; whoso provoketh him to anger sinneth against
his own soul." We need not be surprised that the human heart
was essentially corrupt, and all the thoughts of the mind evil conti­
nually, when such orthodox dogmas were given forth from our
pulpits by holy men—most eloquent divines—whose wits were
sharpened by the desire of court favour and good livings in
perspective. How could the hearers of such inspired preachers
be calm under their exciting influence ? Can we wonder that
their hearts burned within them when the Scripture was opened to
them by men who knew that “ the king’s wrath is as the roaring of
a lion, but his favour is as dew upon the grass!” and seeing
Digitized by Google
83
that “ wealth maketh many Mends; but the poor is separated from
his neighbour;” they did, not having the fear of poverty be­
fore their eyes, preach to their dupes the excellence of poverty,
as that which chasteneth ns—tumeth our thoughts towards hea­
ven; while they piously did keep the wealth for themselves.
Verily, this was the generation “ whose teeth were as swords, and
their jaw-teeth as knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, and
the needy from among men.’'
What but the influence of such godly ravings could have
so long bewildered the people, and kept them in the mazes of error,
the worse than Cretan labyrinth ofChristian mysticism; but alas!
the credulity of the people is as a rich mine that each knave thinks
he has a right to dig into; and the priests early saw that if they
would maintain their power, they must oppose every species of
knowledge, except that particular kind of knowledge they wished to
give. They supported error,because error supported them; and of
this we may be sure, that as long as men profit by error it will not
want champions. This is the grand secret; here we have the true
cause why the opinions of one generation are adopted as infallible
by the next; sacred truths, to doubt which, is sinful and unholy,
injurious to public morals, and opposed to the glory of God!”
Seneca finely observes, “ that plurality of voices is still an argu­
ment of the wrong; the common people find it easier to believe
than to judge, and content themselves with what is usual, never
examining whether it be good or no. By the common people is
intended the man of title, as well as the clown; for we do not
distinguish them by the eye, but by the mind, which is the proper
judge of the mind.”
Men wise in crooked policy, who prefer ease to honesty, before
they write or speak, feel the pulse of those they profess to teach.
Sounding opinion from its lowestnote to the top of its compass, and
understanding the sharps and flats of discourse, they chime in most
harmoniously with the voice ofthe age,or speak not at all, shelter­
ing themselves under the wise maxim, “ He that hath knowledge
spareth his words; and a man of understanding is of an excellent
spi ri tbut there are others, who, not knowing how to write, so as
to get readers, or to talk with the slightest prospect of getting
ears that will hear, do make a virtue of necessity, and stammer
out their opinion—that the world will be best reformed by saying
nothing—by preserving a dignified silence. These people should
Digitized by Google
81
have been bom before the flood. They hold the sage maxiib that
the mind is better improved by thought and meditation than
by talking; besides, our great men of the present day, who are
reputed wise for saying nothing, have Solomon to back them,
who observes, that “ even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is
counted wise; and he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of
understanding.*1
Itis much to be lamented,thatthe human mind should be clogged
and fettered by those who are set apart to teach truths, and should
teach them; but alas! it is but too true, as said by Fletcher, the
celebrated divine, that “ there is not a pulpit in the kingdom where
more has not been saidfor sin than against i t a n d yet such prea­
chers areorthodox, forsooth,—that is, fallin with the most common,
and therefore the most profitable opinions. Oh, how strange, that
while aucient philosophers are honoured as something more than
men, and permitted to occupy a niche in the temple of fame, their
teachings are set at nought. Socrates, though a Pagan, is little less
than deified by all but the most bigotted—that is<40 say, the least
instructed Christians; yet Socrates was not satisfied to believe, but
taught the necessity of searching and probing into Nature, so as, if
possible, to pluck out the heart of her mystery. Yes, Socrates is
considered one of the wisest of mortals, though his orthodoxy was
of a most questionable and crazy kind; nor were his opinions
found to be of the right length, breadth, and thickness, when mea­
sured by the foot-rule of bigots. And to his cost he discovered that
“ a stone is heavy and the sand weighty, but a fool’swrath is heavier
than both.”
How, in the name of reason, shall we understand the genius
of the ancient priests and poets,—how get at the spirit of their
works, except by persevering industry, aided and supported by
an ardent love of truth. How important, for example, it is that
all Christians should know that in former ages, when priests were
at once the teachers and the rulers of the people, their guides and
their protectors,Nature's phenomena was only observedby them;all
learning was then concentrated in the religious temples; the priests
ware the historians; all books were written by priests—in shorty
human condition was in former times, entirely prescribed by priests.
But what is perhaps of more importance to know, their histories
were histories of nature, not histories of men ; and in their sacred
books their custom was to put in action ail the intelligences they sup-
Digitized by Google
posed to be spread throughout the universe,—giving them a cha­
racter and manners analogous to their supposed nature; making
of the Sun, the moon, the stars, the earth, the elements, &c., so
many heroes, angels, or deities, each playing his or her part in
their poetical fictions, and religious chants; as all know who have
read the poems which treat of the works and wonders of Bacchus,
of Jason, of Osiris, of Theseus, of Hercules, of Christ.
This custom of the ancient priests to personify natural pheno­
mena, gave birth to idolatry, itsTabsurdities, and cruelties, and the
error was so much the more easily credited as the priests relaxed
not in their efforts to persuade the people that the gods they adored
had really lived and performed the extraordinary feats related of
them ; that they were bona-fide men, princes, legislators, and the
like,who,when on earth, were as Hercules, the terror of the guilty,
and the shield of the innocent.
The people in former times, like our friends and neighbours of
the present moment, were not in general very solicitous to search
into the real merits of such recitals, but were well content to be
led, if always fed at the same time ; a neglect of the latter condition
makes the task of leading rather difficult; and it may be true that
the ancient priests, or teachers of mankind, were prompted to
act by the best possible motives when they gave currency to
pious frauds, and taught that the gods worshipped by their de­
votees, had formerly resided upon the earth— been examples
of virtue, truthfulness, bravery, and honour—thereby worthy of
deification—leading the people to admire those virtues,and thus set
in motion the springs of imitation; there being a natural tendency
in men to aim at achieving those acts which they admire when
performed by others ; besides, such stories, they probably thought,
would have the effect of stimulating the ardour for good deeds,
which otherwise would have lain dormant in the breasts of the
chiefs and leaders of the people; or it may be, that the priests con­
nived at the cheat, with a view to excite, in the minds ofthe people,
a love of virtue, by teaching them that great actions would ensure
great rewards*,—not merely on earth, but in heaven,—and'that it
was great and noble deeds wljieh gave their forefathers a claim to
wield the sceptre of their country, which,was ever the reward of
merit—not the patrimony of individuals.
A comparison of the ancient calendar, with the works said to
have been performed by Hercules, will throw a strong light upon
Digitized by Google
86
tfris subject. The Phenecians had a tradition that Hercules was
the god Sun—that magnificent star which vivifies all nature—
which engenders the year, composed of twelve months, figured by
the twelve works called the twelve works of Hercules. We are
informed by Porphry, that Hercules was a personification of the
Sun, and that the fable of the twelve works merely expressed, and
did convey, the idea to the learned, of the apparent march of that
star thrdugh the twelve signs of the zodiac. Hesiod informs us,
that the zodiac, in which the Sun achieves his animal course, is
the veritable career run through by Hercules in the fable of the
twelve works; and that by his marriage with Hebe, goddess of
youth, that he espouses after finishing his career, we are to un-
’derstand, the year which renews itself at the end of each revolu­
tion.
The celebrated ancient poet Nonus, gives to Hercules the name
of Helios, or Sun, and further says, that he is the same god that
divers people adore under a host of differentnames—as Belus upon
the shores of the Euphrates, Ammon in Lybia, Apis in Memphis,
Saturn in Arabia, Jupiter in Assyria, Serapis in Egypt, Helios with
the Babylonians, Apollo at Delphi, and Esculapius in all Greece.
A comparison, that we here Challengeallreaders to make between
the send works of Heresies and the works of the Sun during the
twelve months, or with the signs and the constellations which mark
the division of time during each month of the annual revolution,
will set all doubt as to the mythological character of Hercules—for
ever at rest.
If the story told of Hercules be a solar fable, instead as is
generally supposed, a matter of fact,—if the hero of the twelve
works, to whom the Greeks attributed so many marvellous actions,
and that they honoured, under the form of a hero invested with
the skin of a lion, and armed with an enormous club, is the great
god Sun, worshipped by all people,—we shall know how to esti­
mate what are called “ the historical proofs of his existence/ In
various countries they prove the existence of Hercules by shewing
what they are pleased to call the marks or traces of his footsteps,
which plainly indicate, say they, that he must have been a man of
colossal stature. The priests attached to his worship have con­
served correctlikenesses of Hercules, as the Christians have oftheir
god Christ. Dr. Arnott has felt annoyed that the features of Christ
had beenborrowed from handsome persons of but questionable cele-
Digitized by Google
87
brity» and gravely says,* that “ It can produce no pleasing impres­
sion on a Christian’s mind to be told, that an admired painting of
the crucifixion was made chiefly from the body of an executed
murderer^!), or that, for a praised representation of the triumphal
entry into Jerusalem, the painter had deemed his own physiognomy
die most befitting for the principal figure, while he copied the por­
trait ofa noted modern sceptic' as a specimen of the bad men—of
an equally noted believer as a specimen of the good,—while wives,
cousins, acquaintances, and old clothes men, served to make up the
remaining groups/* What a pity tbe apostles did not look to this,
and, as they had the gift of tongues and the power of the holy-
ghost upon them, have taken care to leave us a correct portrait,,
and thereby rendered it unnecessary for orthodox artists to look
out for an executed murderer (as the above Christian writer
asserts)in order to find a set of features to convey his idea ofChrist
nailed upon the cross!! .
Again, Hercules is represented as* strong and nervous, with an
aquiline nose, dark, glossy hair, and showing signs of the most ro­
bust health. He was styled the universalbenefactor of tbe world—
so was Christ.; the one was invested with the skin of the lion, the
emblem of tbe solstitial lion, or Uon of tbe constellations, and.
Christ took .that of the equinoxial lamb, or the lamb of spring,
which repairs the evil of the world ; but the god Sun will not es­
cape us under this flimsy disguise, and the lion ofthe tribe of Judah
will be no less the Sun, which has its domicile at the sign of the
celestial lion, and its exaltation in that ofthe lamb or ram of spring.
This, no Christian will have the rashness to deny, after having
read the account of ancient festivals published in the two following
Letters, where the truth is established that the god ofthe Christian
sect is tbe star which regenerates nature every year at the moment
of the celebration of Easter.
Whfrafter having compared the ancient calendar with the fabled
works of Hercules, will care one straw what is said by historians
about the existence of a valiant hero called Hercules; in vain will
people shew in Italy, in Greece, in Egypt, or in Phenecia, towns
that he had founded, canals that he formed, rocks that he had
separated, columns that he had raised, or the stones which Jupiter
is said to have thrown from heaven to assist him in his conflict
against the Liguriens,—in vain will the temples, the statues, the
•In his “ Elements of Physics,” part 1, page 218, yol. 2,
Digitized by Google
88
;' ‘ ^ ^ ^ ‘ ‘1' i , *
■“<
*
■ , ' J?*
altars, the fêtes, the solemn sports, thb hjgn&s, fee!.saereiii h^tdiMps
spread over half the world, be referréàio àfcprSDÌ»ihafilite a*«ly
existed ; the comparison of the reputed actions of a man called
Hercules, with the ancient calender, will scatter such'flimsy evi­
dence to the wind. We have in our possession a copy of this
curious calendar,’and sj^èdipublish it,in'fe ftturehumbtfr,Whenevery
reader will be enabled to judge for himsélf, and see to %hat point
it harmonises with the poetic fiction. There is not, we feel as­
sured, a single Christian reader who, after comparing;the Calen­
dar with the fictionalhistory,will nptexclaim-—^Well,it is clear, all
that has been written about the wonderful Greek prince;called Her­
cules, is mere fiction,and relatesto the Sun;” butbowwiU,those same
Christian readers be startled, but we hope not dismayed, to find,
that what is written about Christ is equally a poetic fiction—that
Christ no more existed than did Hercules,—that, in fact, Christ
has been worshipped ever since men worshipped the Sun—that himself
and his twelve apostles, the chief of whom has all the attributes of
Janus, bear a relation, or rather, owe their existence to the Sun
and the signs of the zodiac through which it annually passes. It
will he idle for Christians to declare that the tomb of Christis to be
seen even now at Jerusalem ; so may that of Hercules be seen at
Cadiz; and those of Bacchus and Jupiter in Greece; andifj* as
historians tell us, Christ was born at Jerusalem, they w^h equal
plausibility inform us that Hercules was bom at Thebes, as well as
Bacchus, son of Semele, an ancient hero, who, on account of his
glorious conquests, was placed in the rank of the gods. Again-we
repeat that in former times it was customary to write the-history of
nature and its phenomena, as we now write that of men ; and that
the Sun was everywhere the hero of these marvellous .romances.
If the reader admit this truth, he will also, without difficulty, admit
our explanation of the solar legend, known among the Christians
under the name of the life of Christ,—which is but one of thou­
sand names for the Sun, whatever may be the opinion of his wor­
shippers.
In every nation the credulous and the knowing shew the tombs
oftheir great and little gods to the generally ¿«credulous traveller ;
everywhere are fêtes celebrated, and doleful lamentations uttered,
the end of which seemed to bethe renewal, every year, of the sorrow
the loss of their gods bad occasioned.
London : H. Hetherington ; A. Heywood, Manchester ; and all Booksellers,
J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Smallbrook Street, Birmingham. .
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
. , AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
.. BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SEIilES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
AMMIHttKD tt> CHRISTIANS OF AU. DENOSlTNAflONB.
L et t e r M . w eek ly . O n e P enny.
’— ^ ■ - -
* a Tam the Lori thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
Godfirmed, neithershallthere be after me. /, even /, am the Lord,andbesides
me there is noSaviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3,10,11.
C hristians, ------------ . ,
Herodotus, the celebrated Greek historian, who had travelled
long in Ègypt, carefully collecting the sacred traditions of that
ancient nation, and made himself familiar with the rites, ceremo-«
nies, manners, and customs of that learned people, assures ns that
not merely was Osiris (or the Sun honoured under*
*that name)
worshipped by the Egyptians as a living God (the same Deity as
that to which temples and alters were raised in Greece under the
name of Bacchus),but thatthey likewise appropriated to themselves
all the other gods worshipped upon the soil of Egypt, and faithfully
copied their forms, ceremonies, fêtes, and mysteries ; in short, the
superstitions of Egypt were transplanted to Greece, from Greece
to Rome, and are now spread over all Europe. The spirit of
imitation is national, as well a3 individual ; and we find in Herodo­
tus that if Egypt had its initiations, known under the name of
toyateries of Osiris and of Isis, the Greeks had also theirs under
&e name of Bacchus ; a short account of which mysteries may
be useful and instructive—useful as shewing the causes why cer­
tain days were set apart as festivals (for the mysteries were festi­
vals of a splendid character)—and instructive as proving that in the
early ages of the world all festivals owed their existence to the ap­
pearance of some remarkable natural phenomena.
Digitized by Google
90
, The mysteries of Eleusis were celebrated with much magnifi­
cence by the Roman people; and the grjeat prp,t<£ (^ep^.ongpf
the npyest^pfjnep, speaks pfthem**#flips moatpsafubto
for, observes h e,“ their effect has been to civilize apcpteti^ eofipn
men's hearts, and humanize theirrâanners, makingmei^who
else be savage and ferocious, civilized—penetrates them wifh a love
of their fallow-creatures, and le^fls themto a knowledge ofjtbe true
moral principles, which can alone lead men to those practices which
are worthy of them/' So thought Cicero ; and such wa$ the opi­
nion of the greatest philosophers of his time, who gave currency tp
the fable that Qqphpus, whose delicious, music pubdupd the cruel
rage of lions and tigers, and touched the sensibilities -oftrees and
rocks by the harmonious fwcents of his lyre, w&a the,.god,who first
carried into Greece the mysteries of Bacchus,—and as the mysr
teries had for their end the support of social order,,justice, and
religion, in the system of those who only hoped to support the PUP
by the other, Orpheus received much of honour. This doublagpd
is enclosed in the verse of Vergil,— , . . ,
tl Learn ofme to respectjustice and the gods.’’
And 9uch was the grand lesson given by the priest to those who
were initiated and allowed the privilege of taking part in the mys^
teries. Modern festivals and rejoicings are all of a meagre charac;
ter. Our Christmas and our Easter fêtes, and our May-day sports
are fast sinking into oblivion, and pepple are travelling towards the
conviction that no one day is more holy or preferable to another ;
but it was not so with the ancients, who imprinted à supernatural
character upon their legislation ; and in their religious temples the
people were taught thé duty they owpd to éach other, and their
duty to the gods. Mythological poetry furnished to the legislators
of those times the subject of scenes as astonishing as varied—as
interesting as magnificent, which dazzled the eyes of all beholders.
In the temples of Egypt, of Asia, and of Greece, all that illusion
could effect—all the resources of mechanism and of magic (which
is nothing more than the knowledge of the secret effects of nature,
and the mastery of that art which enables us to imitate them), the
brilliant pomp of the fêtes, the variety and splendour of the deco­
rations, the rich vestments, the majesty of the ceremonial, the grace
of those who took part, the enchanting force of the music, the
chorus, the songs, the dances, all imitative of the motions of the
planets, the sound of the symbols, so well calculated to excite en-
Digitized by Google
91
thùsiasdi,andeven delirium,alwaysmorefavourableto suchreligions
than thè1calmness and placidity of reason,—all these were em-
pltlÿèd to draft and attach the people to the celebration of the mys-
fihder atte inaêk Ofa not-to-be resisted pleasure ; the jóy and
thé dancê èoncealed die design thatthe honest priestshad to give
ttfc^ful lessóns,they* treating thé people as children that we never
instruct hatf&owell as when we seem to have no other ohjectinview
tffaànto ¿óhùsé thém. ‘ Upon these grand occasions not only was thè
unfVërsè exposed to the view of the initiated, under the form of an
egg,;but thé principal'' divisions of nature weré traced thereupon,
told an (é^làhatìoh given ofthe cause active and the cause passive,
fetò ftfctcfe ftóy 'divided all causation,—likewise explaining the two
‘pritibiptèa of 'light and of darkness, of good and of evil. In sòme
xrf^thèii^tfiysteries they exposed the generative organs of the two
èëXéaiIt wasthé same with the Indians, whohad their lingam ;but
ìSpàcOlbirbidè us to pursue this truly interesting subject further at
present, than to say that Herodotus writes at some length respect­
ing the similitude between the ceremonial of the Phallepore, or the
Festival of Generation, which was formerly celebrated with much
pomp in Egypt in honour of Osiris, and that in Greece in honour of
Bacchus. That the people called Fhœnécians, Indians, Ethiopians,
Egyptians, and others, had at stated seasons ceremonies, fêtes,
sometimes joyful, sometimes full of lamentations, in honouF of
their gods, is now matter Of common knowledge ; but that all
modem fêtes, rejoicings, fe&stings, and lamentations, were borrowed
from the ancients, and had one only source, is not so generally
known. The April fooleries are fast going out of fashion. The
ancients had many rites and ceremonies in honour of their gods.
The Romans kept their Saturnalia in honour of Saturn, beginning
on the I7th of December, which lasted during five days. Bochariua
is of opinimi, that they took their origin from Noah’s drunkenness.
These were times when all business ceased, except cooking ; when
servants might command their masters, and slaves become unruly
without fear of punishment. The Bacchanalia, or feats in honour of
Bacchus, lasted three days, and commeneed after the vine harvests,
and then drunkenness was the privilege of all. The Stultinaria
were confined to one day, the 1st of April, when the idiots had
their annual holiday, and when children were encouraged to make
derision of them, and send them on needless errands, &c. Some
writers are of opinion that the Romans had much policy in allow-»
Digitized by Goo<; e
92
j&g'tb&ft feat* or holidays. By the firsts they saw he.w .servants
and slaves would apt, bed they power., By the second,»they ware
able»to discover the natural.inclination* and vice»;ofi«11,that ine­
briated themselves. And the encouragemeat (bay gsavetethe
children, in the ihird instance, to deride the fools,,would* thqy
hppqd^ make them desirous.to receive their education* lest they
mightip time become themselves the ejects of contempt*i .■- >
To bring the custom nearer to our own times, if any of theold
account» of London are looked into, it will he seen, that w^en
Bedlam was first built and endowed,there was a,part appropriated
for the reception of idiots. They were designated by the, title of
Abraham men, because that was the name of the ward in which
they wore confined. On the first of April, such as were not toofor
incapacitated had a holiday to see their friends; such as bad not
any, bogged about the streets. They wore the dress,of- the boo
fatal, and excited the compassion of many, on account ofthegame
made of them by the vulgar, and children, who kaew.no battens
which induced numbers of vagrants to imitate,the duess»andpre­
tend idiotism, till to order was issued from the governors* jthat if
any person should sham an Abraham, he should be whipped» and
put in the stocks; from whence came the saying of t‘ Shamming
an Abraham,” - .
Tartullien, the celebrated apologist of the Christian system,
agrees, that when that religion passed to the West, enlightened men
who examined it, gave as their opinion that the Christians wens
butsectaries of the religion of Mithra, and that their god wa&the
same god as that,worshipped by the Persians. If will be useful
here to.note, that in the practices of the Christians, we see the
aot-to-be^mistaken marks of their origin; for example, the Chris­
tian» never pray without turning themselves towards the,East, or
towards that part of the world whore the Sun rises. All the
Christian temples, all their places ofworship,were anciently tamed
towards the rising Sun« Theday of festivity which, however, has
of late by canring hypocrites been converted into a day of gloom,
called the seventh day, answers to the day of the Sun, and is
called Sum5-day, or day of the Lord Sun. The ancients used to call
Sunday the day ofthe Sun.
The Manicheans, whose religion was a strange compound of
Christianity and Magism, always turned themselves, when in the
act of praying, towards the East. Zoroastre has given the same
Digitized by Google
instructions to bis dweipk**; also the Manieheans, who do not ap­
pear t0 have lost the thread which connects the Christian religion
with that of the Persians, with regard to the two principles, and
>with respect to the SunMithra, of whom Christ is a copy, stoutly
contended» as we contend, that Christ is the Sun; but they seemed
:to suppose that the ¿Sun really contained a man or god called
Christ, in the aame manner that the ancients placed Apollo and
Hercules in that planet All this is attested by Theoderet, Saint
Cyaile, and SI Leon. This without doubt was the cause why the
otherChristians*wereso angrywith the Mamcheans-^plumingthem-
eelves upon being the best believers,thatis, the most ignorant; nor
would they intheir wrath admit the Manicheansto their communion
until they consented to abjure their heresy, and give up the perni­
cious dogma oftheir religion,which consisted in believing thatChrist
and the Sun were the mme thing—at all events, that he had no ex­
istenceout oftkut itarw There are, even now, in the East, two sects
of fjkrietiam adorersofthe Sun. The Basilidiens and the Gnostics
were twa of the most learned, and at the same time, the moot an­
cientprofessors ofthat religion, winch only needs anexamination to
dbc convinced that it had its origin in solar worship. They gave to
'their Christthenamuof lao, thesamename thatthe oracleofClarcp,
according to the most learned ancient authors, gives to the Sun; in
fine, so much of conformity had Christianity with the worship of
the Son, that the Emperor Adrian called the followers of Christ
-the worshippers' of Serapis, that is to say, of the Sun; for Serapis
was die same as Osiris ; and the ancient medals which bear the
features of the god Serapis have inscribed upon them the legend
Sun Serapis. This wiU clearly shew that there is nothing novel
«bout the opinion that Christ was a personification of the Sun,and
that all his worshippers are, like the Persians, the worshippers of
fire; so that, if what we assert seem paradoxical, at leastit is not
new,—and will-doubtless,on that account, appear more respectable
in the eyes ofthe moral antiquary, who would not give one brass
farthing for an opinion if it were not at least a thousand years old,»
and wearing upon its face the rust of many ages.
It was a fondamental point of all religions which had the wor­
ship of the Sun for their basis, to treat of its birth, death, and re­
surrection, and to retrace, or, as as it were, record those events by
religious ceremonies and sacred legends,—hence it was that tombs
were raised to the divinity of the Sun» under differentnames, end to
Digitized by Google
94
commeiáorateitsdeathand resurrection* avastnumberofwhich rhay
now be seen in Egypt. Hercules had his at Cadiz, wbbre ids bobeh
were formerly seen, and, as before said, Jupiter and Bacchus íiád
theirs in Greece. The priësts of Delphi used to shew the tómb òf
Apolló ; and the tomb of Christ Is now shewn tò credùlous pîlgrÎtôô
in Jerusalem. Three females, it is related* went to shed their tòàffc
upon the tomb ofApollo, after the serpent Python had put hilti tò
death, as the three females that wb are told with éqtíal truth, Weidt
tò wet with their téars the tomb of Christ.- Apollo tookthetitle of
Saviour—so did Christ. At Athens and Sparta were célébrated, ih
honour ofApollo, fêtes òf joy at the full-moon of spring,—for the
grand festival of Easter is fixed, as all our readers probably kùóW^
exactly at the same time, feastér is a timé of rejóiciñg over by
far the largest portion of the earth. The fête, the mostsoletta añd
grand, of the Tartars, is the Joun, or that of spring ; aléó thegràtid
festival of the Calmucs falls at the first moon of April ; they dril
that first day équinoxial, and the fête itself whîîe-day. Ev&ywheré
in Greece it wás customary to celebrate fêtes in honour of thè Sün,
or god of Spring, vanquisher òf winter and the great serpentPy­
thon ; and these fêtes were called fêtes of félicitation—rejoicings fot
their safety and wônderfül deliverance from the devil, or poWers of
cold and of darkness. ' ‘
Christ is called by his followers the Lamb who repairs the evils
of the world,—which symbolical expression requires some expiaba-»
tion. In the mysterious book called the Apocolypse, we read of
the slaughtered Lamb, worthy to receive wisdom, honour, divinity,
glory, and benedictions. It is the Lamb Which opens the book of
fate, designed under the emblem of thè hook with seven seals. All
the nations of the earth are represented as placing fhemsèïves be­
fore the throne of the Lamb,—they are clothed in White,with palms
in their hands, and chanting with loud voices—glory to our god,
who is seatéd upon the throne. It would be superfluous, if not
tédïous, to multiply passages in which that niysterious name is re­
peated,—but all who are curious can examine the matter further by
referring to the Apocolypse, where they will see that the god of
Light was the Christ under the name df the Lamb—that grand di­
vinity to which the Christians consecrated'themselves in their ini­
tiation. The festival of Easter, therefore, simply relates tò the god
Sun, in its triumph at the vernal equinox, when it takes the form
of the first sign, or constellation, called the celestial Lamb, when
Digitized by Google
that majestic star, seeming to triumph over the spirit of darkness,
4t?d bring/back to our hemisphere the long days, its appearance
^nu§j)y failed with delight andgratitude;this was the origin
Of>h£ of Easter, and this and this only was the Lamb that
to save the sins of the world. No wonder that mpn should
have worshipped, the Lamb, when its appearance in the heavens
was,the signal fpr the enjoyment of all the blessings that the preT
Senpe of the Sun can diffuse; nor shall we be surprised, moreover,
to find that the figure of the Lamb was the character or seal with
whieh.the.priests formerly marked the professors of that religion,or
tfia^ the early Christians placed around the neck oftheir children—
the symbolical image of the Lamb. Who has not heard of the
famoustAgnus dei?
The most ancient representation of the god of the Christians was
{he figure of a Lamb, sometimes united to a vase, in which its blood,
flowed, sometimes sleeping at the foot of a gross. That custom
subsisted until the year 680, but it was ordained by the sixteenth
qynod of Constantinople (canon 82) that in place of the ancient
symbol, which was the Lamb, they should,in fixture represent a man
attacked to a cross, which policy was confirmed by Pope Adrian I.
In ,our churches jpay be seen this symbol, upon the tabernacle op
little, press, in which the priests 'enclose the sun of gold or silver
that contains the circular image of the god Sun, as well as in
front of thgir altars. The Lamb is there often represented sleeping,
sometimes upon a cross, sometimes upon the book of fate, which
ip closed with seven .seals. That number seven is that of the
spheres, of which the Sun was reputed by ancient mystagogues to
be the soul, and of wbicfi the motion or revolution is reckoned
from the point of Aries, or the Lamb of the equinox. This is the
Lamb that the Christians tell ps was immolated from the beginning
of the world. Agnus oecius ab origine rraindi. It would fill a folio
to enumerate one tithe of the fetes and rejoicings practised among
the ancients at Easter in celebration of the victory obtained by the
Lpmb, or the god Sun, over the devil, or god of darkness. Hence
the origin of lighting wax tapers, known under the name ofpaschal
tfpers, as symbolical of the triumph of light. It is at Easter that
the Persian priests clothe themselves in white, the colour affected
to Ormusd, or the god of Light. The festival of Easter was also
celebrated in Egypt under Aries, or the Lamb, in gratitude that the
light of the heavens had trampled over the genius of evil,—in which
95
Digitized by Google
all is red, or the colour of fire, as in the Easter fete of thè
Éfrtó ttelr fêté of the Lamb. Tfafeit resilh*
*eetion of the dtefttiA
fire,WWch tifo àncients supporcibubbled or bbiled in die Sun, '«toil
Which e^eiry spring returns to render vitality andjoy to our kemis*-
pbere, was the true and only resurrection of Christ. It was this
idea that led the Bishop of Jerusalem every year to shut himselfup
iu a little cave, called the tomb of Christ, and carry with' him &
bundle of small wat candles, and by the aid offlint and steel con­
trive to produce an explosion of tight, sueh as that to be semi at
the body óf the Opera;' in order that the people nright bétóéVe that
sacred fire had fallen from the heavens to the earth, which they
readily did. Then the worthy bishóp had the sècond part of thè
farce to play, and ran out crying lustily that the fire fromheaveri
fcfad descended, and the holy wax candles were illumined by it,
and thè open-mouthed multitude rhn in crowds to buy his ho!^
Wax eàndles ; for in Jerusalem, as elsewhere, the priests sell holy
things, and the people purchase them,—the more silly the latter,
Vké ridher the former,—everywhere the people are ¿Upéd ¿ut o f
thei* feubst&iice, and where dupes are, dopers will be. ■
1 Thè reason why the name' of Lamb has been given to Christ,
fend that the latter has been in so many nations worshipped under
that emblem, is because that Christ is the San, and that the tri­
umph of thé Sun is gained evèry year, undér the sign of thé
Lamb, or under that sign which was then the first of the twelve
Signs, when happened the equinox of spring. The mysteries of
Atys lasted three days ; these days were days of mourning, an#
that fiite of the Sun Atys fell on thè 25th of Maiuh, or the eighth
day before the kalends of April,that is to say, it fell upon thé same
day that the Christians ordinarily celebrate their Èaster, or the tri­
umph of Christ, when they chaunt Hallelujah, the true chaunt of
joy of the Htfarie$> or days of joy ; indeed, there is not the slight­
est difference between these two fêtes, those of Atys god Sun of
the Phrygia, and Christ the god Sun of the Christians, only ili the'
name of the hero of the tragedy, who in both fablès is reputed to
have done precisely the same acts. In our next we «diali conclude
our remarla on the origin of Christmas and Easter Festivals, and
in the following Letter will publish, according to promise, the an­
cient Calendar, and compare it with the twelve works of Herculeà.
London ; H. Hetberington ; A. Heywood, Manchester ; and all Booksellers. -
* J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Smallbroek Street, Birmingham. - .
06
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
# BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF BETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS.
Letter 12. weekly. On? Penny.
“ I am the Lord tihy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
God formed, neithershall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord,and besides
me there is no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3, 10, 11.
C hristians, ---------
The Sun neither rises nor gets in reality—it is in itself ever the
same,—always majestic, always brilliant; but in the relation the
days have with the nights, there is in the world a progressive gra­
dation, of increase and of decrease, which phenomena have given
birth to ingenious fictions on the part of ancient theologians. They
have likened the birth and the apparent growth and decay of
the Son, to that of a man who is born, grows, and, after having
attained the age of maturity, degenerates or decreasesin force, until
be arrives at last at the term or end of the career that Nature has
enabled him to ran through. The god of day, or the Sun, personi­
fied in the sacred allegories, was reputed to have suffered the desti­
ny of man; he had his cradle and his grave, under the names of
Hercules, of Atys, of Adonis, Bacchus, Osiris, or Christ. He was
a child at the solstice of winter, or at the moment when the days
began to lengthen, and it is under that form that the Sun’s image
was formerly exposed in the ancient temples, there to receive the
homage of his adorers; because, according to Maerobe, “ the day
being then the most short, the god Sun seemed to be as a feeble
infant It is the child of the mysteries—that same infant that the
Egyptians drew the image of from their sanctuaries every year
upon a day appointed.” '
Digitized by Google
98
It is that same child of whom the goddess of Sais caned herself
the mother. In the inscription to be found upon the celebrated
ancient temple erected to her honouf, might be seen these words—
“ The fruit that I have brought forth is the Sun” It is that child,
• feeble and weak, born in the middle of obscure night, of which the
holy virgin ofSais was delivered at the solsticeofwinter,—according
to Plutarchns.
The Sun god had his mysteries and his altars, and statues were
raised which represent^ him in the four ages of human life ; nor
were the Egyptians the only people who celebrated at the winter
solstice the birth of the Sun—of that star which every year seem»
to triumph over darkness and death. The Romans had on a day
fixed their grand fête of the Sun, when they celebrated solar sports,,
known under the name of sports of the circus. They fixed it on the
eighth day before the kalends of January, that is to say, on that
day which answers to our 25th of December, or to the birth of the
Sun, adored under the names Mithra, Christ, &c. This is
shewn in a calender printed in the Uranology of the celebrated
Peteau, where we read, that “ On the eighth day before the kalends
of January, natalis invieti, orbirth of the invincible.” That invinci­
ble was Mithra, or the Sun. rtWe celebrate,” said Julian the
philosopher, u some days before the day of the year, magnificent
sports in honour of the Sun, to which has been given the title erf"
Invincible.” The same epithet, as before stated in one of these
Letters, is to be found upon all the monuments of the Mithriac re­
ligion, and is applied to Mithra, or to the Sun, the great divinity of
the Persians,—their great god Sun, the invincible Mithra.
in the sphere of the Magi and the Chaldean priests was repre­
sented in the sky, a newly-born infant, called Christ, or Jesus,
placed in the arms of the celestial virgin, that ia> the virgin of the
signs, to which some philosophers have given the name of Isis,
mother of Horus. And at what point of the heavens did that vir­
gin and her son answer ? (Let every Christian note this well.) It
was at the hour of midnight, on the 25th of December, at the very
same instant when the god of the year, the Christ, is said to have
been bom, and at that very point where the Sun seemed to rise on
the first day above the eastern horizon.
To this fact we call the attention of all who are willing to be
convinced, as it is of vast importance ; it is a fact indepen­
dent of all mere hypothesis—independent of all conclusions we
may draw from it—that at the precise hour of midnight, on the
Digitized by Google
99
25th of December, in the age9 'when Christianity appeared,—the
celestial sign which then appeared above the horizon, and of which
the ascendant presided at what astronomers call the opening of the
solar revolution,—was the virgin of the constellations. It is also
a fact, that the god Sun, bom at the solstice of winter, that is, the
25th of December, is re-united to the virgin, and seems to envel­
ope her with his fires at the epoch of our grand fête of the assump­
tion, or the re-union of the mother with her son, and that she
seems to go out from the solar rays heliaquement, at the very mo­
ment when the Christians celebrate his appearance in the world, or
his nativity.
. These are facts which cannot be abused away ; nor do we doubt
that they will produce great aud lasting effects upon the minds of
all candid readers. No reasoning, however sophistical, can set
such evidence aside ; but the attentive observer, who has the least
acquaintance with the genius of the ancient writers and teachers,
will draw from them consequences of vast importance, unless they
can suppose that all these things are merely accidental—mere mat-,
ters of chance,—this, however, few will do who are on their guard
against all that is likely to mislead their reason, and perpetuate
their prejudices. One thing is certain, which is, that the same vir­
gin—that virgin which can alone become a mother without ceas­
ing to be a virgin—fulfilled the three grand functions of the virgin
¿mother of Christ, whether in the birth of her son, in her own birth,
or her re-union to him in the heavens ; but it is, above all, in her
function of mother that we shall examine her here. It is natural
to think that those who personified the Sun, and made him pass
through the differentages ofhuman life—who attributedto him mar­
vellous adventures, which they chanted in poems, or related in
their sacred legends—would not fail to draw his horoscope, as it
was the.custom to draw the horoscope of other childreu at the mo­
ment of their birth. That usage was, above all, that of the Chal­
deans and the Persians ; and such fêtes were celebrated under the
name of dies natalis, or fête of the birth. But the celestial virgin
which presided at the birth of the god Day personified, was re­
puted to be his mother, and fulfilled the prophecy of the astrolo­
ger who had said, " A virgin will conceive and bring forth/* that
is to say, that she will bear Qr bring forth the god Sun, as the
virgin Sais ; hence the designs traced in the sphere of the Magi,
of which Abulmazar has given us a description, and of which also,
Albert the Grand, Roger Bacon, Selden, Kirker, and others, have
Digitized by Google
100
written. Abnlmazar says, “ In the first decan, or in the first ten
degrees of the sign of the virgin, according to the traditions of the
most ancient Persians, of the Chaldeans, of the Egyptians, of Her­
mes, and of Esculapios, is a young girl, called in the Persian lan­
guage Seclenidos de Daryama, a name translated iuto Arabic by
that of Adrenedefa, that is to say, a virgin chaste, pure,immaculate,
with a delightful figure, sweet and most agreeable features* with,
long flowing hair, and a modest air; she holds in her hand two
ears of com, she is seated upon a throne, she nourishes and gives
suck to a young infant, that some call Jesus, and the Greeks
Christ.” The sphere ofthe Magi, or Persian priests, published by
the learned Scaliger, at the end of his notes upon Manillius, de­
scribes, in nearly the same manner, the celestial virgin; but he
does not name the infant which is milked, or receives support from
the virgin; and placed by her side is a man who can be no. other
than Bootes, called the nourisher of the Sun, and of the virgin Ids.
In the Bibliotheque national of France might formerly be seen
an Arab manuscript which contained the twelve signs designed and
illuminated, and there was represented a young child by the side
of the celestial virgin, as nearly as possible like our representations
of the virgin and son, and as the Egyptian Isis with her son. It
seems probable that the ancient astrologers would have placed in
the sky the infantine image of the new Sun in the constellation
which presided at the re-rising, or that of the new year, the sol­
stice of winter, from which simple root have sprung up all the fic­
tions about a god conceived in the chaste womb of a virgin, since
that constellation was really the virgin. That conclusion is surely
more probable and therefore more sensible than the fanciful notion
which many simple and not a few cunning fanatics so obstinately
believe, or pretend they believe, that there did once exist a woman
called Mary, who became a mother without ceasing to be a virgin,
and that the fruit which she brought forth is an eternal being that
moves ánd rules all nature. The Greeks said of their god, wor­
shipped under the form of a ram or a lamb, the famous Ammon or
Jupiter, that he was nurtured by Themis, one of the names of
the constellations; she was also called Ceres, to whom the epithet
Holy Virgin whs applied, and was said to be the mother of
the young Bacchus,or ofthe Sun ; the image of which, with all the
traits of infancy, was annually exposed at the solstice of winter in
the holy temples or sanctuaries. The author of the Chronicles of
Alexandria expresses himself in these terms, "the Egyptians have
Digitized by Google
loi
up to this day consecrated the coucke (lying-in) of a virgin and the
birth of her son, that it is customary to expose ir\ a cradle to the
adoration of the people. The great king Ptolemy having demanded
the reason ofthatusage,he wasansweredthatit was a mysterytaught
to their Egyptian forefathers by a great prophet It may be well
to add, that with the Egyptians the term prophet meant simply a
chief of the initiations.
It is contended by many learned authors that the anfcient
Druids rendered honours to a virgin, and that her statue was for­
merly in the territory of Chartres, with this inscription— Virgxni
pariturœ. It is certain that on the monuments erected to Mithra,
or the Sun, of which the worship was formerly established in Great
Britain, mightbe seen the figure ofa woman with an infant sucking
at her breast, which doubtless represents the mother of the god
Sun. An English author who wrote a dissertation upon that
monument, detailed all the similarities and all the circumstances
which could establish a relationship between the fêtes of the birth of
Christ and those which related to the birth of Mithra. That author,
very pious, but not philosophic, can only see, in the very re­
markable relationship between these two fictions, a prophecy as to
the birth of Christ. He however remarks truly, that the Mithriac
worship was spread over the Roman empire. He cites also the
testimony of St. Jerome, who complained bitterly that the Pagans
celebrated fêtes in honour of the rising Sun, or of Adonis, and like­
wise in honour of Mithra, in the same country, where it was said
Christ was born, that is, Bethlehem; these, according to the theory
we are endeavouring to support, were but the same kind of wor­
ship under different names, as an examination of the fable of
Adonis, which will be given in a future number, will prove to
every intelligent reader, when it will be seen that Adonis, like
Christ, was miraculously bom— suffered a cruel and untimely
death—followed by a glorious resurrection.
We have shown upon what astronomical basis is founded the fable
of the incarnation .of the Sun in the bosom of a virgin, under the
name of Christ ; and now we will pass on to an examination of
the supposed death—then to his resuscitation or resurrection at
the equinox of spring, under the form of the pascal Lamb.
The Sun, the only Redeemer from the evil that his absence had
produced, was said in highly poetic sacerdotal fictions, to be bom at
Christmas, or the solstice of winter, when he remains three months
Digitized by Google
102
id the inferior signs of the heavens—in the regions affected to evil
and darkness, and is there compelled to suffer the malignant power o f
their chief before he (the Sun) passed the famous passage ofthe
equinox of spring, which assures his triumph over darkness, and
covers with fruits and flowers the face of the earth. The priests
having personified the Sun, made a mere mortal of him—made
him live exposed to all the infirmities of mortal life, until, triumph-*
ing in his course, he regained all that brilliancy which dark­
ness for a season had wrested from him. The genius of allegory,
so devoutly studied by the ancient mystagogues, or as they are
very well called among the North American Indians, mystery-men,
Hed them to compose a life, and imagine adventures analogous to
.the character that they had given .to him, and which led to the
attainment of the end proposed by the initiations. It is thus that
Esop, wishing to picture men strong and unjust, who oppress the
weak, has put en scene various animals, to whom he has given oppo­
sing characters, and hasimagined an action proper to attain the moral
end ofhis apologue. This is hinted at by Bacon in his Critique upon
the Mythology of the Ancients, where he say6
, “ In the first ages,
when such inventions and conclusions of the human reason as are
now trite and common, were new and but little known, all thiuge
abounded with fable, parable, comparison, allegory, &c., and even
to this day, if any man would let new light in upon the human un­
derstanding, and conquer prejudice without raising contests, anirao*
cities, apposition, or disturbance, he must still go in the same path,
and have recourse to the like method of allegory, metaphor, and
allusion.” Again he observes, “ The concealed and secret learning
of the ancients seems separated from the history and knowledge of
the following ages, by a veil or partition wall of fables, interposing
between the things that are lost and those that remain.”
Besides the wrecks of ancient sacerdotal fictions, which were
handed down to us in the works of Diodorus and Plutarchus, we
have seen a life of Osiris and of Typhon (the god and devil of the
Egyptians), composed by the Christian Bishop Synesius, who did
not disdain to fabricate legends, believing, as he said he did, that
fables were good for the common people, as they amused and kept
them out of mischief. " When I am in my closet (said this worthy)
I am a Philosopher—when with the vulgar 1 am a Bishop!” In
these,adventures, the characters and the portraits of the two prin­
ciples of the Egyptian theology were traced from the imagination
Digitized by Google
103
with a bold and skilful hand. These principles were light and
darkness, which seem ever to be struggling for mastery—poetic-*
ally personified by Osiris *and Typhon. The Persians had also
their history of Ormnsd and Ahriamanes, which contained a stirring
recital of their combats, ending with the victory of the good prin­
ciple. *
The Persian priests had their legend of the chief of their religion,
and they tell us that prodigies announced his birth. He was ex­
posed to all sorts of danger from his infancy, was obliged to fly
into Persia, as Christwas obliged to fly into Egypt ; he was pursned
as him by a king who wished to destroy him ; an angel trans­
ported him into the skies, from whence they said he brought back
the book of the law ; as Christ, he was tempted by the devil, who
made him magnificent promises, if he would but follow him ; he
was pursued and calumniated, as Christ, by the Pharisees; he
performed miracles, in order to confirm his divine mission and the
dogmas contained in his book. Such was the history of the god*
Mithra given by the Persians—squaring exactly with the history
o f Christ given by his worshippers. Now, Mithra was but a per­
sonification of the Sun,—and we dare to say, what all intelligent
readers will certainly think, that Christ was no more,—nay, that
the Christian religion is a mere copy of the Persian—a branch of
the same allegorical tree.
In concluding this hasty notice of the Festivalsof Christmas and
of Easter, we deem it necessary to impress upon the minds of all
readers, that it is precisely at the equinox of spring that Christ tri­
umphed, when he repaired the evils of the human race, accord­
ing to the fable of the Christians, called the life of Christ. It is
*t that annual epoch that are held the fêtes which have for their
object the celebration of that grand event ; for the Easter of the
Christians, as that of the Jews, is necessarily fixed at the full-moon
of the equinox of spring—that is to say, at the moment when the
Sun passes the barrier which separates the empire of the god o£
ligh t from that of the prince of Darkness,—when re-appears in
our climate the magnificent star which gives life and light to all
nature. The Jews and the Christians call it the fête of the passage,
—for it is then that the god Sun, or the lord of Nature, passes
towards our regions, and distributes those benefits, of which the
serpent of darkness and of autumn had deprived us during the
winter. It is the festival of the lord> so called, because it was eus-*
Digitized by Google
In&uy to give to the Sun that titlej for Adonis» or Adonai, t|te
mere names for that star, Lord of the world. In the Oriental fable
Adonis, or the god Sun, like Christ, goes ont victorious from the
tomb after his worshippers had deplored his death. In the conse­
cration of the seven days to the seven planets, the day of the Sun
was called the day of the lord, or commonly Lord’s Day or Sun­
day. It precedes Monday, or the day of the Moon, and follows
Satuiday, or the day of Saturn,—two planets trhich occupy the
cntvemes of the musical scale, of which the Sun ia the centre, and
number the fourth ; thus the epithet ljord agrees in«U its relations
to the Sun.
The Festival of Easter, called the fête of the passage, Was origi­
nallyAxed on the 25th of March, that is to say, three months, day
for day, after the fête of the birth* or the Festival of Christmas ;—
the birth of Christ was, as before proved, the birth of the Sun.
The learned Cedrenas says,that Christdied on the 23rd ofMarch,
and the resurrection took ¡dace on the 25th, from hence came the
usage in the church of celebrating Easter, the,25th, that is to say,
the eighthday before the kalends ofApril, exactly three months after
Ate eighth ofthe kalends of Janaary, epoch of the birth of the Sun.
The fête of the passion, or of the death of the god of day, was
fixed at the equinox ofspring, and held by the worshippers of the
Sun in every country of the world ; with the Egyptiens, it was
the death and resurrection of Osiris ; with the Phenedans, it was
the death and resurrection of Adonis ; withtiie Phrygians, it re­
lated to the tragical adventures of Atys; but it is above all
in the religion of Mithra, or god Sun of the Persians, that we find
the most perfect resemblance to the death and resurrection of
Christ, and the other mysteries of the Christian faith, Mithra, as
Christ,wasborn on the25thof December, performedmany wonders
and miracles, and like him, suffered a resurrection, and his
sepulchre was raised where the elect went to shed their tears,
and idolize their god. Itiafor those who so obstinately believethat
Christ was a man-god, to account for so singular a coincidence, by
an appeal to reason and history ; but this appeal; we know, they
dare not make, the evidence we have offered is irresistible—it
is drawn from the nature of things, and the most authentic reoqpda
of past times.
London : H. Hetherington ; A. Her«rood, Manchester ; and all Booksellers.
J. Taylor, Printer, 39, Smallbrook Street, Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESI8TIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OP ALL DENOMINATIONS,
Letter 13. weekly. One Penny.
u I am the Lerd-thy <rod, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
God formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Saviour.*’—Isaiah XLIII. 3, 10, 11. .
Christians, . ' ---------
It is certain that if Hercules, of whom we read so much, was
pot really a Greek prince or bona-fide hero, but simply a personifi­
cation of the Sun, as we have proved by authorities cited in former
Letters, the fable of the twelve works is a solar fable, which can
have no other relation than to the twelve months, and to-the twelve
signs—one of which the Sun appears to pass through each month :
the eonsequence will have all the clearness of a demonstration,
when we compare each of the works with each of the months, or
with the signs and the constellations which mark in the heavens
the division of time during each month of the Earth’s annual
revolution.
Among the different epochs at which the year formerly commen­
ced, that of the solstice of suipmer was the most remarkable. It
was at the return of the Sun to that point that the Greeks fixed the
celebration oftheir Olympic fêtes, called Olympic games, established,
it was said, by the great Hercules ; this was the most ancient error
of the Greeks. In comparing the ancient calendar with the twelve
works said to have been performed by Hercules, we shall fix the
departure of the Sun Hercules in his annual course, The sign of
the lion domicile of that star, and which furnishes to him his attri-
Digitized by Google
106
butea, having formerly oecnpied that point, his first work will be
his victory over the lion, which is really that which has been placed
at the head of all the others: but before we compare month by
month the series of the twelve works with that of the stars which
determine and mark the annual route of the Sun, it will be well to
observe that the ancients, when regulating their calendars, employed
not only the signs of the zodiac, but more often re&arkable stars
placed beyond or without the zodiac, and the several constellations
which by their rising or setting announced the place of the Sun in
each sign. All who have read the poems of Ovid and Columclle
will have full proofof this; but it is yet more completely shewn in
the ancient calendar. Our readers will now be prepared to compare
the subject of the twelve chants with the constellations which pre­
side at the twelve months—the bare reading of which will convince
the most sceptical that the poem of the twelve works is nothing
more than a sacred calendar, embellished by the lovers of the
marvellous, who in distant ages made abundant use of allegory
and poetry, in order to give life and soul to their fictions. •
. CALENDAR.
FIRST MONTH.
Passage of the Sun under the qp-
lestial Hon, called lion of Nemea, fixed
by the setting in the morning of the
ingeniculus, or the constellation of the
celestial Hercules.
SECOND MONTH.
Passage ofthe Sun to the sign of the
virgin, marked by the total setting of
the celestial Hydra, called the Hydra
of Lerne, the head of which is next
morning renewed with the crab.
THIRD MONTH.
Passage ofthe Sun to the sign of the
balance, at the beginning of autumn,
fixed by the rising of the celestial Cen­
taur, who receives Hercules with hos-
pitalitv. That constellation is repre­
sented in the skies with a bottle full of
wine and a thyrse, ornamented by vine
leaves and grapes, and allof theseason's
productions. Then the celebrated bear
rises the same evening, called by others
the hog and the animal of Erymanthe.
POEM.
FIRST WORK.
Victory of Hercules and his triumph
over the Nemean lion.
8ECOND WORK.
Hercules defeats the Hydra ofLerne,
of which the beads, if cut off, miracu­
lously renewed themselves, whilst he is
constrained and resisted in his work by
the cancer, or crab.
THIRD WORK.
Hospitality given to Hercules by a
Cefataur, and combat of the Centaurs
for a tun of wine, victory of Hercules
upon them, and defeat of a frightful
wild boar vihich ravaged the forests of
Erymanthe.
Digitized by Google
107
FOURTH MONTH.
Passage ofthe Sun to the sign of the
scorpion, fixed by the setting of Caiope
constellation, in which was painted for­
merly a biche, or kind ofdog.
FIFTH MONTH.
Passage ofthe San to the sign of the
sagittary, consecrated to the goddess
Dianawhohadhertemple atStymphale,
in which was seen the birds Stympbali-
des. That passage is fixed by the
rising of the three birds, the vulture,
the stork, and the eagle, pierced by the
arrows of Hercules.
SIXTH MONTH.
Passage of the Sun to the sign of the
buck or old Capricorn, son of Neptune
according to some, grandson of the Sun
according to others. That passage is
marked by the setting of the river Du
Verscare, which flows under the point
of Capricorn, and of which the sourceis
directed by Aristeo, son of the river
Penee.
SEVENTH MONTH.
Passage ofthe Sun to the sign of the
Aquarius, and at thatpartoftheheavens
where the moon is every year at full,
which served as epoch, when were cele­
brated games called Olympic games.
That passage was marked by the vul­
ture placed in the sky by the side ofthe
constellation called Prometheus, at the
same time that the bull of Ptfecphae or
ofMarathon,calminatedtothe meridien,
at the setting of the horse Arion or
Pegasus.
EIGHTH MONTH.
Passage of the Sun to the Pisces,
fixed by the rising in the morningofthe
celestial horse, which carries its head
towards the Verscan, son of Gyrene.
NINTH MONTH.
Passage of the Sun to the sign of the
ram, consecrated to Mars, sometimes
called the ram with the fleece of gold.
That passage is marked by the rising
of the shipArgo; bythe setting qf An-
FOURTH WORK.
Triumph of Hercules over a biche
with horns ofgold and feet ofbrass that
he took upon the borders of the sea
where it reposed.
FIFTH WORK.
Herculesnear Stymphale,giveschase
to birds known under the name of birds
ofthe lake Stymphale, as represented to
the number of three, on the medals of
Perinthe.
SIXTH WORK.
Hercules cleanses the Augean stable,
or stable of Augeas son of the Sun, or
according to others, son of Neptune.
He there made to flow the river Penee.
SEVENTH WORK.
Hercules arrives in Elidea—he was
mounted upon the horse Arion, he leads
with him thefamous bull of Crete which
had ravaged the plains of Marathon.
He caused the Olympic games to be
celebrated ofwhich he was the institu­
tor, in which games he was the first
combatant, he kills the vulture of Pro- .
methens. ‘
EIGHTH WORK.
Hercules makes a conquest of the
horses ofDiomede, son ofCyrene.
NINTH WORK.
Hercules embarks in the vessel of
Argo, to gotomake conquest of the ram
with the goldenfleece ; he combats with
female warriors, daughters of Mars,
from whom he ravishes a superb girdle.
Digitized by Google
108
dromede, or the celestial woman, and of andhe delivers a young and beautiful
her girdle; by that of the whale; by female exposed to a whale or a marine
the rising of the Medusa ; and by the monster, snch as that to which was ex­
setting of the Queen Cassiopee. posed Andromache daughter of Cas­
siopee.
TENTH MONTH. TENTH WORK.
The Sun quits the ram of Phryxus Hercules after the voyage that he
and enters under the bull. That pas- made with the Argonautes to conquer
sage is marked by the setting of Orion, the ram with the fleece of gold, returns
who was amorous of the Atlantides or to Hesperee to the conquest of the oxen
ofthe Pleiades, by that ofthe Bouvieror of Geyon ; he kills also a cruel prince
cow-herd,conductoroftheoxenoflcarius who pursued the Atlantides, and he ar-
by that of the river Eridas, by the using rives in Italy with Faun at the rising of
of the Atlantides and by that of the the Pleiades,
goat, wife of Faun.
ELEVENTH MONTH. ELEVENTH WORK.
Passage ofthe Sun to the twins, in- Hercules triumphs over a frightful
dicated by the setting of the dog Proc- dog, of which the tail was a serpent,
yon; by the rising or appearance of the and ofwhich the head was bristled with
great dog in the train of which is seen serpents ; he defeats also Cygnus or the
the Hydra; and by rising in the even- prince Cygne, at the moment when
ing ofthe Cygne celestial. Canicule, or dog, comes to burn the
earth with his hires.
TWELFTH MONTH. TWELFTH WORK.
The Sun enters into the sign, of the Hercules’voyages in Hesperie, there
cancer or crab, to which answers the to gather the golden apples guarded by
last month; at the setting ofthe river of a terrible dragon, which in our spheres,
the Verscare and of the Centaur; at is near the pole; according to others, to
the rising ofthe shepherd andhissheep; carry away the ram with the golden
at the momentwhen the constellatiod of fleece. He prepares tomakea sacrifice,
Hercules descends towards the western and invests himself with a robe stained
, regions called Hesperie, followed by with the blood ofa centaur that he had
the dragon of the pole, guardian of the killed at the passage of a river. That
apples of the garden of the Hesperi- robe burns bun with its fires, he dies
des, dragon which is represented in the and thus finishes his mortal career, in
sphere as crushed at his feet, and which order to retake bis youth in the skies,
falls near him towards the setting. and there to enjoy a glorious immor­
tality.
Digitized by Google
100
Here then we have a description comparative of the poetic chants
and the twelve works, and of the heavenly appearances during the
twelve months of the Sun's, or rather the Earth’s annual revolu­
tions ; the Sun, as our readers already know, having only a local
motion on its own axis. Who will now deny thatthe indefatigable
Hercules was a personification of the Sun? Let every reader
judge of the relations, and Bee to what extent the poem and the
calendar agree. It is sufficient for us to say that we have not in*
verted the series of the twelve works, but have given it precisely as
related by Diodorus of Sicily; and as to the celestial phenomena,
all can verify them with a sphere, by causing the colure of the sol­
stices to pass by the lion and aquarius, and that of the equinoxes
by the bull and the scorpion, which was the position of the sphere
at the epoch when the lion opened the solstitial year about four
hundred years before our era.
Even if the ancient philosophers had not informed us that Her­
cules was the Sun, even though the universality of his worship did
not prove that a Greek prince could notpossiblyhave produced such
astonishing results in the religions world, and that so high a destiny
belonged to no mortal, but only to the great god Sun, the
benefactor and preserver of our existence, if would suffice to seize
all the relations of the double tableau, in order to conclude with
moral eertainty that the hero of the poems is thegod that measures
time ; who conducts the year,regulates the seasons and the months,
and distributes heat and life to all nature. To read the history of
Hercules as a bona-fide hero, is to read a monstrous tissue of ab­
surdities—a heap of fable, which accords with no chronology, offer­
ing in every page the most absurd contradictions, when men
ignorantly insist that what was ascribed to Hercules was really
performed by a man; but it is a poem, vast, comprehensive, and
ingenious, when understood to treat of the god which fructifies the
universe. There all is movement, all is change, all is life. The sol*
stitial Sun represented with all the attributes of force and power that
lie has acquired at that epoch, and that seems contained in him
the depository of the universal force of the world. He is invested
with the skin of a lion, and armed with an enormous club. He
throws himself majestically and fiercely into the career that he is "
obliged to ruu through by the eternal order of nature. It is not the
sign of the lion that he runs through—it is a frightful lion that
Digitized by Google
110
ravages the country; he goes to offer it combat; he attacks and
stifles it in his arms, decks himself in the spoils of the vanquished
animal, then passes on to achieve another victory. The celestial
Hydra is the second monster whieh presents an obstacle to his
course. Poets represent this monster as a serpent with a hundred
heads, which it is vain to cutoff, as they renew themselves, and with
terrible additions; but Hercules burns them with his destructive
fires. The ravages which that frightful animal made, the fright of
the inhabitants who rfesided near the cavern which served as a re­
treat for the monster; the horrible hissings of the hundred heads,
and on the other side the undaunted air of the vanquisher of the
Nemean lion ; then his embarrassment when he saw the heads that
he had cut off renewed by the power of the monster; all is painted
or described in the same manner that Virgil describes the victory
of the same hero upon the monster Cacus.
It is besides, a consequence fairly to be drawn from the compa­
rison we have instituted, that Hercules was not a mortal elevated
to the rank of a god for his courage and the benefit he had confer­
red upon mankind ; nor the events of his pretended life, historical
facts; but merely astronomical phenomena, and further proves that
the testimony of many ages and many people, in favour of the
existence as men of theheroes of the differentreligions, the memory
of whom is consecrated by a worship, by poems, and by legends,
called sacred, is not by any means a sure or certain pledge of their
historic reality: the example of Hercules shews that consequence
in all its force. The Greeks believed in the existence as a man of
Hercules quite as sincerely as the Christians believe in the existence
as man of Christ; but as before hinted, the belief of a people proves
nothing more than the belief; which must always give way before
the evidence furnished by experience. What excellent matter for
Teflection to those who repose confidently Hpon the grand, but
most fallacious, argument, that the belief of one or many people,
and of many ages, can establish the truth of a matter of dispute;
above all, in that which touches religion, where the first duty is to
believe without examination: surely, in such a case, the philosophy
of one man is worth more than the mere opinion of thousands of
men born and nursed in ages of credulity. These reflections find
their application in the solar fable made upon Christ, the chief of
the twelve apostles-r-the hero of the Christian legend! nor will
Digitized by Google
I ll
eighteen centuries of fraud and imposture destroy the striking re­
lations between that fable and the other sacred romances made upon
the Sun, that Plato called the only Son of God ; but the Christians
will speedily be compelled to acknowledge, at least those among
them who dare to examine our Letters, that they are worshippers of
the Sun, as the Indians, Americans, Phencecians, Ethiopians,
Egyptians, Greeks, Romans, and in short, all people, ancient and
modem ; only they worship the Sun under the name of Christ in­
stead of Atys, Adonis, Jupiter, Apollo, Hercules, Bacchus, or.
Christina. Yes, the star which regenerates nature every year, at
the moment of the celebration of Easter, is the great God of all the
nations, and much lauded Christianity is mere idolatory. This has
been proved in our two last Letters, when treating on the origin of
the festivals of Christmas and of Easter, and their connection with
the supposed birth, death, and resurrection of Christ.
It is easy to understand what kind of developement a true poet
was able to give to singular ideas, which were derived from physics
in general—and astronomy in particular—whether agriculture or
geography, or even politics or morals ; for all particular ends en­
tered into the general system oi the first philosophic poets, who
sung of the gods, and introduced man into the sanctuary of nature,
which seemed to have revealed to them all its mysteries. What a
delightful field for the display of genius, when fiction and allegory
had full liberty—all to feign and all to dare ! for nothing can be
impossible to the gods—of course, we allude to the gods of human
imagining, to whom it belonged to astonish all mankind, by a dis­
play of their magnificence and power ! What a wonderful career
for genius to describe and paint, with all the force human language
would permit, the wonders of the universe ! That was indeed the
age of gold for poetry, which has been called the child of the sky
and the gods. Since those ancient times, all poetic compositions
are comparatively tame and spiritless—having little of that subli­
mity and that boldness of speculation sustained by all the force of
genius when excited and sustained by the phenomena of nature,
or that great God, of whom the poets were, in former times, the
only priests and interpreters. There i9 very little poetry about
modem priests, who are,in general, prosy, dull, and stupid enough ;
bat with the ancient teachers of the nations, all was enthusiasm and
sublimity; and nothing can open a vaster field to our conjectures
Digitized by Google
112
upon the antiquity of the world, and general civilization, than re­
flections upon the heavenly appearances set forth in those splendid
poems, in which the constellations played so conspicuous a part.
We might also give an analysis of the poems which treat of Bac­
chus, and shew that the supposed son of Semele was, as Hercules
pnd Christ, a personification of the Sun—that physical beings the
roost powerful, as the most beautiful, agent of nature; and if w e
attach so much importance to proving that Bacchus and Hercules
were but symbols of the Sun, adored by all ancient people under
various forms and different names, it is because the conclusion is
inevitable, that in formertimes men wrote the history of nature and
its phenomena, as they now write the history of men, and that the
Sun was, above all, the great hero of all such marvellous romances ;
with regard to the true character of which, posterity has been so
grossly deceived. If the reader is convinced of this truth, he w ill
easily admit our explanation of the solar legend, known by the
Christians under the name of the life of Christ, which, it cannot be
too often repeated, is but one of a thousand names of the god Sun,
whatever may be the opinion of his adorers as to his real existence
as a living god, prophet, or mere man ; for their opinion unsup­
ported by evidence, no more proves that Christ really existed, than
did the opinion of the Greeks, unsupported by evidence,prove the
existence of Mercury,Bacchus,Jupiter,or Hercules. The Christian
fathers,whowerelearned enough toknow the characterofthe ancient
religion, immediately saw the wonderful similarity between the
religion of Christ and the religion of the ancient Bacchus, Adonis,
Hercules, and a crowd of others, but above all that of Mithra in
Persia;but then, they contended that the devil copied the Christian
religion before it existed, in order to spite God and bring hisworship
into, contempt. Oh, wonderful theologians !—ye have, indeed, a
thread for every needle! Just the same was said by the Greeks, who
contended that the Egyptians stole from them (the Greeks) their
gods, although these same gods were worshipped in Egypt ages be­
fore the Greeks existed! Nothing, surely, but the introduction of
the devil can render this clear and convincing. Alas! poor devil!
you have much to answer for!
London : H. Hetberington ; A. Heywood, Mancbei*ter; and nil Bookseller*.
J. Taylor, Printer, 29, SmnHbrook Street, Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS.
L etter 14. * w eek ly . O ne P en n y .
u I am the Lord thy Cod, Hie Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
God formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3, 10, 11.
Christians, ----------
The preposterous vanity which leads human beings to suppose
that a God they themselves acknowledge is incomprehensible—is
something, yet immaterial—filling all space, yet occupying noqe—
creating every thing, yet itself uncreated—loving truth, yet per­
mitting falsehood—desiring man to be virtuous, yet tolerating their
viciousness; that such a deity should assume the human form, and
come masquerading among men, as God is said to have done in
Christ,is certainly the very quintessence ofthe deliramenUs doctrinesf
or fanaticism run mad. We hear much of the presumption of the
Jews, hut surely nothing can equal the presumption—the maniac
folly of the Christians,—nought but itself can be its parallel! The
Jews say that God is a Spirit, that is, a something, the nature of
which we know nothing,—here, at all events, there is no presump­
tion ; but Christians have not been content to worship a Spirit in
spirit and in truth, but must needs have—oh horrible insanity!—a
god of flesh and blood, a real man-deity,—an eating, drinking,
talking god, who formerly ate upon the earth, and, in the opinion
of some pious Catholics, is now eaten! Andthis they call honouring
the Deity! and those who scorn to assist in their mad orgies, and
refuse to dishonour their own nature, and bow down to the idols
Digitized by Google
Il4
superstition has Greeted, are denounced as irreligious forsooth Í.
called infidels, deists, atheists, and other hard names, by the w ise
interpreters of what they call God’s wifi, which is of course, that
they should teach and we pay—they command and we obey 5
.50 ./ These sleek-haired, hypocritical* spluttering, and shamefully igno-
• / . rant preachers, who devour widows’ houses, and, for a pretence*
make long prayers* have the brazen-faced audacity to say, that all
who resist their will, resist the will of God, for they are God's
representatives on earth, and the preachers of his word! Verily,
if there be a devil, or spirit of evil, they represent him, and are
most admirable preachers of hb word. Resist the will of God l
Where can be found a Jew who would utter such impious balder­
dash ? Why, even Christian writers themselves tell us, “ How'
vain is all resistance to God; but the very will, the wish, the power
to resist cannot rise into being unless supplied and supported by
him.” So that, according to these wise-acres, men are to be eter­
nally punished for that resistance which God himself had supplied
and supported them in. Oh priests, priests!—ye are the curse of
of the human race!—the plague-spots of society]—and while ye are
* permitted to domineerover the intellects of men—bend them to your
hateful will, the earth will continue what it has hitherto been,
through your accursed instrumentality, the abodeof fiends in human
shape! Your unholy frauds must and shall be exposed!—aye,
your frauds, cruelties, and most shameful opposition to human
liberty and happiness, from Aaron downwards. The world has had
^ more than enough of fable, and it is now prepared for noble truths;
and one, the most important of all, is, that it is not the Deity who
has commanded that men should believe and worship—it is cunning
men, who have insolently dared to deceive their fellow-creatures,
by pretending that a god or gods, one or many, just as it suited
their purposes, had made them his confidants! Yes, knavish
hypocrités have, in all ages of the world, set up systems of religion
* as an engine of tyranny, and a means by which they might plunder
the people ; for what is it but desire and fear which leads men to
worship with disgraceful insincerity the gods of their several na­
tions. It is not respect and gratitude that fills our churches,—it is
hope and fear. Relieve the human mind from the terrors of hell,
and priestcraft will be for ever annihilated ! therefore it is, that the
. priests so strenuously support the notion of a deep fiery-gulf for
sinners, and a place of delight for good believers, that is,for all who
Digitized by Google
lio
pay them w ell; for if yon pay, they care little what yon believe.
Who can be so silly as not to understand, that if the gods, or the
priests in their name, promised nothing, their splendid temples
would soon be deserted—converted into temples of science, or halls
for the education of the people. All religions, whether Christian,
Jew, or Mahomedan, have one common character, which is, to
establish a correspondence between men and invisible beings,
whether called gods, geniuses, angels, fairies, or devils—imaginary
existences, to which half-crazjfc, half-rascal soul-torturers have
created—spun out of their hot brains with a view to explain in their
own manner the phenomena ofnature! The selfishness and vanity
of men is never shewn under so disgusting and truly contemptible
a form as when they are trafficking with the unseen powers, which
they suppose rule, after having created, the universe. These crea­
tures make praying an article of commerce—they give their prayers
that the gods may give them something better than mere words.
It is always “ give us this day our daily bread,” forgive us this and
lead ns out of that,—indeed, we always find that those who want
the most, pray the most; so that the length of our prayers prove
not our sincerity, but simply the length of our desires. Of course,
it would appear very ridiculous to be offering up tears and be­
seeching» to a nothing,—so a something is imagined, to which a
shape, a form, and a character is given, according to tastes of indi­
viduals and nations. An old man with a long beard is sometimes
the symbol of deity in Europe; in other parts of the world, an old
woman without a beard is selected for adoration; the colour of the
gods varies with the climate: nor are human beings content to give
form and colour to the gods,—but also give them human passions,
feelings, opinions, vices, and follies. This is happily hit off by
Fontenelle in Ms Dialogues*des Marts (Dialogues of the Dead), a
part of which we shall transcribe :—
H o m Er . Yon ought to know that my gods, such as they are,
and all mysteriousness apart, have not been thought ridiculous.
ASso p . That makes me tremble; I serióusly fear that people
will think that beasts have spoken, as they are represented to have
done in my febles.
H o m er ,. A truly pleasant fear.
JESOP. H a!—what, and if people believe that the gods have
delivered the discourses that you have put into their mouths, why
should they not equally believe that beasts may have spoken in
the manner that I have made them speak ? .
Digitized by Google
116
H o m er . I tis b y no m eans the sam e thing. M en w ish th at
the gods m ay be as foolish as them selves; but they do not w ish
th at beasts m ay be as wise.
This sage remark of Homer will hardly be disputed; for, though
men pull down in imagination the gods to thoir own level, they
have no desire to lift up the beasts to the same. God made man
after his own image, saith the Scripture ; the fool takes this literal-*
ly, and says in his heart, I am like unto God—thereby likening
God unto a fool; truly that is m 4bg a fool of Deity. The agents
of this correspondence between men and gods are skilful tricksters,
called priests, magicians, and impostors,—which last, may be con-»
sidered as the generic name for magicians, jugglers, conjurors, and
priests,—for mysterious men of all kinds, who are paid for teaching
what they themselves don't know, are only the several species of
the genus impostor, who all agree in saying, that they are the or-»
gans, if not the intimate friends, of invisible beings ! Such is the
foundation of all worship, and of all religion, which places man
in relation with the gods, and the earth with the skies; in plain
language, all organized worship which is superintended by priests,
has for basis an ideal order of invisible beings, who are charged
with the destinies of men who are more or less obedient to the
voice ofthe true priesthood; and of course there are as many true ,
priesthoods as there are true religions ; and there are as many true
religions as there are people who understand their own nature, and
the nature of things beyond that which nothing is beyond—that is,
the universe. Nor do the worshippers at the shrine of Jehovah,
who hope one day to sing hallelujah above the clouds,entirely neg*.
lect the little comforts to be enjoyed beneath the clouds. Mammon
has almost as many, perhaps more, worshippers than Jehovah; and
the text, “ what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and
lose his own soul," is little regarded. “ It is by Plutus, or the god of
riches,” said Aristophanes, “ that Jupiter reigns; it is for him that
sacrifices are m a d e a n d goes on to say, that “ since Plutus en­
riched so many men, Mercury complains that the gods received
very few offerings, and wanting little, offered up very few prayers.”
So that we perceive the priests, in the times of Aristophanes, were
just the same kind of men as the priests of our tim es; for if these
latter pray to Jehovah, with all their Ups, they worship with all
their hearts, and all their souls, the god of riches; thus we have
the singular spectacle of a proud, wealthy, and rapacious priestT
hood, preaching humility, poverty, and charity! Let us root out
Digitized by Google
117
lake hopes and shameful fears, and supply their place by a love
that never tires, and a courage that never fails; then, and not till
then, will there be morality and peace on earth. Take away from
the people false and delusive hopes and fears, and false religion
will be annihilated; for never are men more falsely religions than
when they are poor, sick, miserable, and degraded ; let it be re­
membered that it is weakness and fear, not strength and courage,
that has raised altars to the gods. For the true philosophers, life
has many charms—but death no terrors ; they may desire to live,
but cannot fear to die,—the basis of their virtue is love of man, not
fear of God.
That many readers will admit the force of our arguments
when applied to the heroes of the ancient religion, and yet
persist that Jesus Christ was a man, or even a god, none can
doubt; though if the reason be sought into, it will be found that it
is simply this, that such readers had formed that idea before
they read this book, and found it difficult to get rid of their first
Impressions and long cherished opinions, while others are so badly
organized, that they will receive as sacred and divine, all, save that
which is dictated by good sense and sound reason, and who seem
to be as much on their guard against philosophy as though they
had a natural'innate antipathy to it: such unfortunate creatures
are as much horrified by truth as mad dogs by water, or turkey-
eocks by a scarlet mantle. We need hardly add, that with such men,
their first opinions are their only opinions; and besides, as the habit
of thinking enables us to think with precision and accuracy, so
slothfulness corrupts the mind—destroys its force, elasticity, and
power to separate truth from falsehood. Yes,it is thought which im­
proves the mind, strengthens its powers, and renders it impervious
to sophistry; but the majority of mankind do not think, but pay
others handsomely to do that business for them; so that thinking has
been erected into a profession,—the people seeming to forget the
saying of Locke, “ That a man could no more think through ano­
ther man’s thoughts tlian he could see through another man’s eyes."
To decide between a possibility and an impossibility is the talent
of ail but the most grossly ignorapt; but to separate truth from the
errors with which it may be associated, to decide with precision
and accuracy the degree of force in different kinds of opposing
¿evidence, is a rare talent, belonging only to the few who have
long laboured and meditated with the anxious desire to know
£he truth and act upon it. Men of these two orders of mind have
Digitized by Google
been noticed by Fontenelle, who observes, that « Clocks, the most
common, and made with least of art, suffice to mark the hears; but
it is only those made with more of art which indicate time to the
minute. In the same manner, ordinary minds understand very
well the difference between a siinple likelihood and an entire 'Cer­
tainty ; but it is only fine and delicate minds who catch at once the
more or less oflikelihood or certainty, and can mark, so to speak,
the minutes of their sentiments.” The gross and ill thinking, it is
notexpected,will read these Letters,—all who do so will surelythink
a little; and, we may say without vanity, that no human being
could read attentively, and examine patiently the evidence ad­
duced, and the arguments enforced, in the Letters already written,
without his faith in the existence, even as a man, of Jesus Christ,
being much unsettled and greatly shaken. It is not pretended
that the evidence already offered is so complete, that it is either
full or sufficient to destroy the historical character of Jesus Christ—
this evidence has yet to be furnished ; and all we have attempted
to do, up to the present moment, is to shew that all religions have
one common source, which source is nature; that the Sun, being to
human beings one of its most brilliant agentsy has been the object
of adoration and worship from the earliest recorded periods of
history. Thatthe force,grandeur,andthe effectsproducedbytheSun,
were the subjects of the songs or chants of the ancient priests and
poets, and that what is foolishly called idol worship, was not at first,
at least, the worship ofthe stock or the stone, the gold or the silver,
as a real deity or deities; but these were borrowed only as em­
blems, symbols, or as mere signs of natural objeets. The symbols
of the Sun were placed in the religious temples as symbols, not as
real gods; and though the common people did commit the egregious
error of mistaking the sign for the thing, and even now, in some
parts of the globe, worship idols of brass and of wood as real
deities, the priests of those nations, although they find it expedient
to nurse the delusion, are not themselves very often deluded; hut
it does however, sometimes happen, that priests becon>e the
victims of their own arts. As for the people, ancient or modern,
whose kingdom is not of this world—that is,ythe world of reason—
these remarks will produce little effect upon ¡kern,—-but then, they
are told for their satisfaction, that the blessed are the poor in spirit,
and that the kingdom of heaven is for those who believe; and it
would indeed be a pity if they should be deprived of their expec­
tationsof9future happy life, when they suffer so muchmisery in
Digitized by Google
119
The Catholics have been, much abased as the worshippers of
Idols; and we are told, that Catholics worship images, as did the
Pagans of old, and that like them, they give the glory of God the
Eternal to the works of men’s hands; but the Catholic denies this,
and the Catholic Bishop of Siga, in a sermon preached at the conse­
cration of the Catholic chapel at Bradford, in the county of York,
on Wednesday, July 27th, 1825, said, “ I know how common
these charges are (that is, that the Catholics worshipped images as
did the Pagans of old), and how otherwise respectable are the
sources from whence they spring, or I should fear to insult your
understandings, by supposing that any of you are capable of
believing them; for, is it possible that in any age and country
which claims to be so learned and enlightened, men should be
found capable of believing that the majority of the Christian
world—the great, the good, the learned of almost every civilized
nation under heaven, are so ignorant, so debased, so stupid,
* so wicked, as to give divine honours to a likeness and sense­
less image ? Is it possible that any of you should persuade your­
selves that the most ignorant Catholic here present should be ca­
pable of adoring, for instance, the ivory image which you see upon
that altar ? But why, it may be inquired, if the image of Christ is
not worshipped, is it there ? Ah, my Christian brethren, look at
that image and tell me, what impression does it make on your
minds? It represents your Redeemer nailed to the cross, and
dying for your sins. Can you behold such objects, unmoved ?
Can you fix upon it a vacant eye ? Can you gaze upon it, and
not reflect how great was his goodness who thus suffered!—how
criminal were those sins which caused those sufferings,—how sin­
cere ought to be your sorrow in having participated in the com­
mission of them ? It is to excite such emotions that the image is
placed there ; and let me ask you, could a more appropriate object
stand upon a Christian altar, or be placed before the eyes of a
Christian assembly, when they meet to pay their worship to their
divine Redeemer—when every mind should be impressed, and
'every heart penetrated with the remembrance of his sufferings—
the source of Jill our happiness, and all our hope ?” This is the
answer of the Catholic divine to the charge of idolatry,, and he
justly says “ it is to excite emotions that the image is placed there
— not that it may be worshipped as a real living God/* The peo­
ple require images and pictures; their eyes must be fed by sights
and shams; for, as to spiritual deities,the people can have no notion
Digitized by Google
120
of them ; 'mid hoiever it be that do image
appropriate to excite superstitious,or as the worthy divine would caft
them, religious emotions, ft*that of »man-god nailed uponthe cross,
such'representations can only excite the ignorant multitude, who
are eve? the dfafpee of appearancef! Bat surely the Gat^fd^o divine
must be a bold man wlio waul# f&mer that the ;motet ignorant
Catholic can and does distinguish between symbols, or signs of
things, and the things themselves. The worship of images was
prescribed and rigorously enforced by the first Christian councils,—
and we read, wthat the seventh general coaucil, or the second of
Nice, was assembled in 787,by Constantine,son ofLeo and Irene,to
re-establish the worship of images. The reader must know, that
two councils ot Constantinople, the first in 730, under the emperor
Leo, the other twenty-four years after,under Constantine Coptaay-
mus, had thought proper to proscribe images, conformably to the
Mosaic law and to the usage of'the early ages of Christianity. So
also the Nicenc decree, in which it is said, that ‘whosoever shall
not render service and adoration to the images of the saints as to
the Trinity, shall be deemed anathematised,’ at first encountered
some opposition. The bishops who introduced it, in a coons#?oT
Constantinople held in 789, were turned out by soldiers.”
It has been shewn that from time immemorial men have sym­
bolized their ideas of Deity—that in ancient times the notion was
that the universe itself was a great god, got of itself, born of itself,
and subsisting of itself; but as it was a great whole, consisting of
many parts, it was supposed that there were as many intelligences^
angels, deities, or geniuses, as there were parts in nature. In the
Greek mythology, more especially, all was personified, or symbol­
ized ; the rivers, the mountains, the forests, the stars, the elements;
and all know that in Greece as well as in Egypt, the land was
covered with statues erected in honor of the gods.
In our next we shall proceed to another branch of our subject,
and consider the doctrine of the Trinity as a preparatory step to a
right understanding of the collaterial circumstances touching the
religion of the Christians; after which, nothing will remain for us
to do than to shew, by an appeal to history, that what is said about
Christ in the four gospels is a fiction, and, that the evidence set forth
in proofof his existence, just proves the reverse*
London : H. Hetherington ; A. Heywood, Manchester ; and all Booksellers.
J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Smallbrook Street, Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE QF CHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OP ALL DENOMINATIONS.
Letter 15. weekly. One Penny.
“ I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
Gtdformed, neither shall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and besides
methere is no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3,10, 11.
Christians, ---------
The doctrine of the Trinity, observes Dr. Drummond, in­
forms ns that the Godhead consists of “ three persons, of one
substance, power, and eternity “ God the Father, Ged the Son,
and God the Holy Ghost.’* Now, any man, under the influence
ofsuch vulgar principles as “ reason and common sense,” would
conclude that three persons must mean three distinct beings, and
consequently that'there are three Gods ! This, Dr. Sherlock can­
didly admits, and says, “it is plain the persons are perfectly distinct.
A person is an intelligent being, and to say there are three divine
persons and not three distinct infinite minds, is both heresy and
nonsense.’’ Here then is palpable polytheism, from which, thus
fairly exhibited, even orthodoxy recoils astounded. Doctor South,
scandalized by such an admission,from a Doctor of his own church,
showers down.upon him a torrent of theological vituperation; and
alleges that there is only “ one infinite mind, with three modes,
attributes,or offices, manifested underthe differentstates or relations
of father, son, and spirit.” Thus the meaning of the word person
is explained away ; and after the most painful straggles against the
conviction of their own minds, that God is one, the,most eminent
divines are reduced to the necessity of maintaining that thè three
Digitized by Google
122
persons of their imaginary trinity are nok persons, b«h something
else. Tillotson calls them u three differences,"-—Burnet «three
diversities,"—Seeker “ three subsistences,"—others ^ three pos­
tures !'"—Le Clerc thought them to be “ three distinct cogitations
—and that the subject might be explained by the philosophy of
Des Cartes. Some are for a specific, some f<?ra numerical unity,
and others for both united, though involving a monstrous contra­
diction. Waterland speaks of a “ three-fold generation of the son,
two antemundane and one in the flesh. The substance of the one
person/' he says, “ is not the substance of either ofthe others, but
different, however of the same kind or united." Barrow speaks of
the mutual inexistence of one in all, and all in one." “ They are
joined together," 6ay$ another, “ by a perichoresis—and this peri-
choresis, circumincession or mutual inexistence is made very pos­
sible and intelligible by a mutual conscious sensation." Some
divines understand the words person and personality in a philo­
sophical sense, others in a political, and a third class in a theo­
logical sense. The doctrine of three persons, according to W atts,
must be true, “ at least in a political sense, yet cannot amount to
so much as a philosophical personality, unless we allow a plurality
of Gods." We sometimes find the same Trinitarian Divine con­
futing himself, for error is always inconsistent, and maintaining in
one part ofhis writings, propositions subversive of those which he
has maintained in another. We are told of a Ciceronian, a Pla­
tonic, an Aristotelian, and a Swedenborgian Trinity, and finally
“ the Trinity of the Mobile, or common people and lazy divines*
who content themselves by calling it an inconceivable mystery."
Now, what is this but darkening of counsel by words without
knowledge ? Winch of these contradictory schemes is to be em- '
braced by the man who is determined to depart from the simple
truth, that God is one ? “ What is there" asks the author of an
excellent letter on this subject, “ to guide me through the dark and
dreary labyrinth ? Not one solitary ray of light glimmers to direct
my path. All is darkness and confusion : the more I read, the
more I am confounded. I cannot advance a step, and I end as I
began, without being able to find two men or two creeds agreeing
in a similar answer to my inquiry—What is the Trinity ?”
The dogma of the unity of God, the first theological dogma of
the Christians, is not peculiar to their religion. It has been
admitted by almost all the ancient philosophers—and even the
Digitized by Google
123
Pagans, whose worship wa3 polytheistical in appearance, always
acknowledged one grand chief to whom all others were submitted,
under various names, whether gods or angels, as the Christian
angels and saints are to the supreme God. Such was the great
Jupiter with the Greeks and with the Romans—that Jupiter called
the father of the gods and men, who Was said to fill the universe
with his substance. He was the sovereign monarch of nature,
and though the name ofgods was given to the other divinities, it
was an association in the title rather than in the power; each
divinity having his particular department under the control or
empire of the first God, sovereign, and absolute master of all
others. The Scripture itself gives the name of gods «to beings
subordinate to the first God, without injury to the unity of the
chief, or first cause. It was precisely so with the Jupiter of the
Greeks ;they repeated, without ceasing, the epithet of one or unique
that they gave to Jupiter ; Jupiter, said they, is one. The oracle
of Apollo admitted also an uncreated God, born of himself, whose
dwelling place was the bosom of the fire Ether; a God placed at
the head of all the hierarchy.
In the mysteries of the Greeks, it was customary to chant a
hymn which expressed clearly that unity. The high-priest address­
ing the word to the initiated, to him said, “ Admire the master of
the universe; he is one, he Exists every where.” It is a truth
acknowledged by Eusebeus, Augustine, Justin, and other Christian
apologists, that the dogma of the unity of God was received by the
ancient philosophers, and that it was the basis of the religion taught
by Orpheus and the mysteries of the Greeks.
It may be urged by Christians, that the ancient philosophers,
who existed many ages before the establishment of Christianity,
held the dogma touching the trinity from the revelation made to
the first men; but it may be replied, we have not the slightest
necessity to have recourse to the supernatural machinery of reve­
lation, which, naturally considered, is an absurdity, when we know
the reasonings or the series of abstractions which led the ancient
philosophers to acknowledge the unity of the first principle, and
when they have themselves given us the motives which led them,
to admit the monad or first unity. These motives are simple—
they rise from the nature of the operations of our minds, and the,
form under which the universal action of the great whole presents,
itself to us. -
Digitized by Google
124
The correspondence of all the parts ofthe world between them-»
selves, and their tendency towards a common centre of' movement
and of life, which has caused men who regarded the great 'Whole
as an immense God, to admit his natty, not being able to conceive
anything beyond the assemblage of all beings, or beyond the whole,
ft was the same with those who regarded the universeas a great
effect The union ofall parts of the work, and the regular enaero-
bit of all systems of the world, led them also to admit one only
cause of one only effect; so that the unity of God was acknow­
ledged as a principle in the minds ofthose who placed God, or the
first eanse, beyond the world, and in the minds of those-who,con­
founded«God with the world, and did not distinguish between the
workman and the work,—as Pliny, and all the most ancient philo­
sophers, who held that all things are Connected together by a
sacred chain ; nor can there be (me thing strange to another, for
•all that is, they held to be combined to form a definite whole, upon
which depends the beanty of the universe. There is, say they,
but one only world, which includes all; one'only God, who is
every where; one only matter, which is eternal; one only law,
which is reason, common to all beings. It is easy to deduce as a
consequence, from the above dogma, the unity of God, that is to
say, the philosophical opinion and the motive which gave birth to
it The fathers of the church themselves have inferred the unity
of God from the unity of the world, that is to say, the unity of the
cause from the unity of the effect; for with them the effect is dis­
tinguished from the cause, or God is separated from the universe;
by which, we mean, they admitted an abstract cause instead of a
real being, which is the universe. Saint Athnasius thus expresses
himself: “ As there is in Nature but ene order for all things, we
ought to conclude that there is but one God, artist, and ordainer,
and from the unity of the work deduce that of the workman/'
. .We perceive then, that the Christians deduced their unity of
Clod from the unity of the world, or rather the universe, as all
Pagan philosophers had done before them. In all this we observe
the natural march of the human intellect, and therefore it is quite
unnecessary to attempt any explanation by an absurd supposition
of a special revelation. -
All Platoniciens admitted the unity of the archetype, or of the
model upon which God created the world, as well as the unity of
the dendmrgos, or god artist, by a consequence of the same pbilo-
Digitized by Google
sophieal principles, that is to say, from the unity itselfof the work,
as may be seen in the works of Proeulus, or, indeed, any. of the
Fktomoiens.
Those Who, like Pythagoras, employed the theory of numbers to
»i explain theological truths, give equally to the monad the name of
cause and of principle. They express by the number oiwyor by
unity,the first cause, and conclude that God is unity, from .mathe­
matical abstractions. Unity reproduces itself every where in
numbers; all sets out from unity. It was the same withthe monad
' divinity; Others, remarking the various forms of human adimliis-
tratiónsy and above all, that of the governments of the east, where
through all time monarchy was the only known form of adminis­
tration, believed that the government of the universe was conducted
upon the same principle, in which all partial forces seemed united,
under the direction ánd authority of one only chief, in order to
produce that perfect accordance and admirable harmony of which
the whole system of the world is the result. Despotism itself
favoured this opinion, which pictured monarchy as the image of
the government of the gods; for all despotism tends to concentrate
power in unity, and confound legislation with the execution.
Thus the tableau of social order,mathematics,and the reasonings
of philosophy, have, by different routes, but all merely* human,
led the aucients to prefer unity to multiplicity; in the first and
supreme cause, or as it is sometimes called, the principle of
principles. Simplicius thus expresses himself, “ The first principle
being the centre of all others, it encloses them all in itself by one
only union,—it is before all—it is the cause of causes—the prin­
ciple of principles—the god of gods/1 Let us then call amply
principles, those particular principles; and let us call principle of
principle, that general principle called cause of all placed above the
visible universe.
It is thus that the universe, or universal cause, enclosing within
itself all the other causes, which are its parts, was regarded as the
principle of principles, and is the supreme unity from whence all
flowed. Those who created an abstract or ideal world, and a
.God equally abstract and ideal, separated from the world, and by
whom the world had been created after an eternal model, reasoned
in the same manner upon the God, or cause of the universe ; for
the material world has always furnished the type ofthe intellectual
world; and it is from what man sees that he creates his opinions
Digitized by Google
126
upon that which he sees not. The dogma of the unity of God,
even with the Christians, takes its source in purely human reason­
ings—reasonings which have been adopted ages before Christians
were known in the world, as any may be assured by the works o f
Pythagoras, or Plato, and in the books of their disciples. It was
the same with regard to their triad or trinity, that is to say, the
subdivision of the first cause into intelligence, or divine wisdom,
and spirit, or the universal soul of the world.
By the ancients, man was compared to the universe, and die
universe to man; and as man was called the microcosm, or little
world, they made of the world an immense giant who enclosed allin
one greatwhole,containing in its source what man had in little and
by emanation. They remarked, that in man there was a principle
of movement and of life, which was common to Mm with other
animals. That principle manifested itself by the breath—in Latin,
spiritus, or spirit. Besides that first principle there existed a second,
that by which man reasoned, combined his ideas, and arrived at
wisdom; it is the intelligence which is found in him in a hiuoh
greater degree than in the other animals. That faculty of the
human soul was called in Greek logos, which is translated into
Latin by ratio and verbum. That Greek word expresses two dis­
tinct ideas, rendered by two different words in Latin; and in
French by ai son, by verbe, orparole. The second is nothing more
than the image of the first; for words are, or should be, the images
of the thoughts; they are a means by which our thoughts are
rendered sensible to others, and which, in some sort, seem to take
a body in the air, when it is modified by the organs of speech.
These two principles in man do not constitute two beings distinct
from himself; but we may, however, of these two principles make
two distinct existences by personifying them; Ijut yet, it is always
the living and thinking man in whose unity, or oneness, are com­
posed all his faculties as in their source. Analogously did the
ancients consider the universe as an immense God, one and unique,
wMch enclosed all, and was itself all. His life, or Ms spiritus, as
well as his intelligence, or his logos, which is eternal and immense,
as himselfwas confounded in his first and radical unity called fa­
ther, since it was from it that these two faculties emanated. None
could conceive the universe God without conceiving him as living
the universal life, and intelligent of an intelligence equally univer­
sal. Life was not intelligence, but both life and intelligence were
Digitized by Google
127
the life, or spiriius, and intelligence or divine wisdom which, in
their mode of reasoning, belonged essentially to the divinity of the
world, and made part of his unique substance, since it is impossible
any could exist which was not one of its parts. All these dis­
tinctions, so subtile and refined, belonged to the Platonicien and
Pythagorean philosophies, and had nothing whatever to do with
what is called revelation.
There were no expressions more familiar to the ancient philoso­
phers than the following :—“ The universe is a great animated
being, which encloses within itself all the principles of life and
intelligence spread in its parts. That great being sovereignly in­
telligent is God himself, that is to say, God, word or reason, mind
or universal life.”
The universal soul designated spiriius, and compared with the
spirit of life which animates all nature, distributes itself principally
in the seven celestial spheres, of which the combined action was
reputed to regulate the destinies of man, and spread the germs of
life in all that which exists on this globe. The ancients symbolized
that breath or spiriius which produces the harmony of the spheres,
by a flute with seven reeds, that they placed in the hands of Pan,
or the image meant to represent universal nature; from whence
comes also the opinion, that the soul of the world was enclosed in
the number seven, an idea that the Christians borrowed from the
Platoniciens, and that they have expressed by the sacrum septen-
arum, or by the seven gifts of the holy spirit, as the breath of Pan,
that of the holy spirit was, according to Saint Justin, divided in
seven spirits. The unction of the proselytes was accompanied by
an invocation to the holy spirit; they called it the mother of the
seven houses, which- signified* according to Beausobre, mother of
the seven sides; the word spiritus in the Hebrew language feminine.
The Musselmen and the eastern Christians give to the third
person of the trinity, for its essential property, life, that is, according
to the first, one ofthe attributes of the divinity. The Syrians call it
mehaiaorliving, and the credo ofthe Christians gives to it the epithet
mvificaniem. It is then,in their theology, the principle of life which
animates nature, or that universal soul, principle of movement cf
the world, and also of all the beings it contains. This is the vivi­
fying force, emanating from God, who, according to Varro, governs
the universe by movement and by reason; for it is the spiriius
which spreads life and motion in the world, and it is reason or wis­
dom which gives to it the direction and regulates its effects. That
Digitized by Google
128
spirit** was God, in the fp tw of 0m iiidkM yhiiyoyH^rs»
wrote upon the universal eoui,or spiribw\$i&& ®Jt p the mufiiam
or nourishing force of the wortd, acoOrttingto * V $ % il,^ d h w ?
alii. The divinity, according to their system, emanated from the
first monad, and extended itself as far'as to the soul of the world,
according to.Plata and ^orphery^or a4far as the third- God^to nse
their o*m*expressions. Thu* thfe spkifas was God* or rtttber a
faculty of the universal divinity. "
Besides the.principle of life syad of motion, these philoso­
pher3admitted a principle of intelligence and of wisdom, under the
names of we and of logo*, or of reason and the word God. God
was said to reside principally in luminous substances. The word
light in some languages, the French for example, signiiesrequally
intelligence and physical tight, for intelligence may be considered
to the soul what light is to the eye. We need not, therefore, feel
astonished that the Christiana should contend that Christ is the
light which enlightens every man coming into the world, and to
make him the sou of die father of all tight; that which is certainly
true in a metaphysical and in a merely physical sense, m Christ
was nothing more than the luminous part of the divine essence
rendered sensible to man by the Son, in which, fMCfeflHjr consi­
dered, it m*iy be said to beincorporated or incarnated. It is under
that last form that he is susceptible of augmentation and of divi­
nation, and that he has been the objectof sacred fictions madeupon
the birth and the death of the god Sun or Christ
Another Letter must be devoted to the subjectof the trinity, and
if our readers object that the ideas we have attempted .to set forth,
touching the trinity, are of a mystical and unsatisfactory order, we
can assure them, that, at all events, is not to be placed to the ac­
counts of our misdeeds. There have been no ideas of God, yet
given in the world, which have not been mystical and unsatis­
factory, and the reason is, that there is no prototype in nature an­
swering to the word God. Before we can hope to teach others,
we must first comprehend ourselves,—and if we fail in this, our
.leussons are given at random. All that has been written about
trinity, has not helped us to one atom of real knowledge upon the
subject; nor should we have noticed the question were it not ne-'
cessary to establish our position—that there never was an incar­
noted God, oivmere man, called Jesus Christ I ’
London: H. Hetherington; A. Heywood, Manchester; and all Booksellers.
J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Sraallbvook Street, Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEINO,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OP ALL DENOMINATIONS.
L etter 16. weekly. One Penny.
“ I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
God formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3,10,11.
C hristians, • ■ —,
The Stoics taught that Jupiter, or that sovereign intelligence
which they supposed to rule the world, was contained in the lu­
minous substance called Ether, which substance they regarded asthe
source or spring of human intelligence. Suckan opinion, it must
be confessed, savoredmuch of Materialism; but, that should by no
means surprise us, as it is clear that men were in former times ac­
customed to reason upon the matter that they saw and which
struck their senses, before they dreamt about an immaterial being
-—orexistence that they havesincecreated by abstraction. If Plato
were to shew his head above ground just how, he certainly would
notcomplain,as he didin his Republic, of“ blind men anddreamers
who neglecting divine ideas and heavenly truths (that he names9
strangely enough, the only beings, as though truths could be
beings), give themselves up entirely to the body," which, he con­
tends, is nothing more than a shade or shadow of a thing. It is
clear, that matters have greatly changed since Plato wrote, as little
now is taught but “ divine ideas and heavenly truths;1' ideas so
essentially divine that divinities alone can comprehend their truths*
—so veryheavenlythatinhabitantsofearth,meremortals,failto reach
Digitized by Google
130
4b*ir-£i*blisai*y)—and souls fey our spiritual teeohers, are far more
con^lejjed than bodies, the latter of-which, Plato (fey .sages called
cUvilrf)4Borins u#, are nothing more than shades^or shadows of
things,andasfortheformer,we supposethey aretheshades orshadow»
of nothing;butthis is merely supposition oh our part,—and as about
the shadows of souls, little is known and a great deal said, the
questibn can be best settled by theologists; in the mean time it will
be wtSl to proceed with our subject.
It is certain that matter, how subtile soever, is still matter; and
as the ancient philosophers contended that the soul of man, as the
souls of brutes, was but an emanation of subtile matter endowed
with the faculty of thought, they have been called, and very pro­
perly,.ealled, Atheists*—and we may add, that the assertion made
by Catholicus, a writer in the “ Times”(some few weeks since), that
’the more modern experimental philosophers of Greece, and Rome
were Atheists, is also beyond dispute; but as to the question of ex­
perimental philosophy, it was a philosophy little understood, and
.very partially adopted by either Greeks or Romans. One thing,
however, is certain, whieh is, that in the early ages of the world,
matter was deemed capable of thought, and what i9 called animal
*life was considered as a' phenomenon necessarily resulting from
certain combinations and conditions of matter. We have grown
■ so much wiser since the schoolmaster was abroad, at least we think
we have, thatsuch opinions appear abominable, absurd, and heter­
odox wild dreams; but then, it should be remembered that phi­
losophers of all climes, complexions, degrees, and ages, have
occasionally been found a napping; surely if they fall asleep and
dream, the vulgar may be expected to follow their example—nap
and dream likewise; and if such sleep&ngs and dreamings should
be flattering and pleasant, wish to dream 6n, and dislike not a little
any who rashly arouses them from their delicious reveries*—growing
angry, like Myoille, in Lucien, who is said to have well supped
with a neighbour, and dreaming during the night that he had be­
come rich, that he was carried about upon the shoulders of slaves,
and enjoyed all the pleasures of opulence, was so enraged ,against .
the cock that crowed him out of his delicious dreamery, that he
felt every disposition to choke it. The fate of the cock is that of
all men who, by their crowing (i. e. speaking or writing) arouse
their fellow-beings from the slumbers of fanaticism—disturb their
Digitized by Google
îaj
auperatitious dreams, aqd thereby bring them to q sense of their
miserable and dgraded condition. But enough of dreaming a^d
dreamers for the present .
Pythagorashas called Godtheaotive,ever-varying subtileparticles,
which seem in eternal and universal motion; and distinguishes God
by the epithet luminous, from which all other existences he sup­
posed to have been created; and. according to Saint Augustine, the
creation of celestial intelligence is comprised in the substance
called light. All these were said to be participators in that eternal
light which, they tell us, constituted the wisdom of God; and that
we call, (say the saints,) his only Son, The most learned and
ancient fathers of the Christian church, and the early orthodox
,writers, constantly say that CiGod is a light, and a light very sub-
Jime,*T-*that all we behold of brightness, however brilliant it may
be, is nothing more than a portion—a feeble ray of that light; tha£
¿be Spn is a light without commencement; that God is a light
inaccessible, which enlightenseternally,and whichneverdisappears,
end that all the virtues which surround divinity are lights of.the
eocond order—rays of the first light/’
The theology of Orpheus likewise taught that light, palled tb?
most ancient of beings, and the most sublime, is God—that inac­
cessible God who envelopes all in his substance, called counsel,
light, m i life; which theological ideas have been copied by Saint
John, the Evangelist, who says “ The life was the light, and the
light was the life; and that the light was the word, or the counsel,
and the wisdom of God/1
A sufficient number of authorities have been quoted to shew that
jfc was a received dpgma amQng the ancient theologians, that God
was a luminous substance, and .that light constituted the intelligent
part ol tjje universal soul of the wprld, oruniversal God. The Suq
seeming to be the great focus, of light, was regarded a? the intelli­
gence of the WQrld,or at least, its principal seat,—bonce the epithet^
animus mundi, or intelligence of the universe,*—the eye of Jupiter,
that the ancient mystics applied to the light, as well as that first
production of the Father, or his first-born Soq. .
Theseideas, with many others qf an equally useless character,
have passed into the theology of the adorers of the Bun, known
under the name of Christ, the Son of the Fatheror the first God; hi$
first emanation—a God.(^substantial, or formed of the same lu*
Digitized by Google
1*2
fàwoussnbstttaCe» Thus thegod Son is.also ihcnjcpot*tbarfcanLOr
^iaÉailipM Éni^l^gn^ fieiagyOr ofthegreet umVerse God^that
ia to»say, the god of Dayhasall thacharacters that tlmGhràtiaaa
give to |their Redeemer, who.wasoothing mere, asmmst fappear
from an analysis of their religion* than % personification or »ideal
i enbodiiBJsxxt oftheSum . ..............- ■ - ,f
iProblns/inhis Commentaryupon the Republieof Plato, considers
the Bun under two relatioos^as God non engendered, aadasiGod
engendered. Under the relation of principle of light, whichi iHu-
mined all, he is sacred ; he is not considered as bodyjiuader the
relation of being uncreated, he was said to rule over yâeiblebodies.
This »certainly not very intelligible ; but ancient philosophers did
not always desire to be intelligible,—of them it may be trulysaid,
they nsed language not to convey but to conceal'their thoughts ;
but 1st us make the bestof them. Well,then*undertherelation ofa
created being, he was ruled and Buffered certain modifications like
all other beings ; but as the principle or source of light, he was
( heldsacred,and notas a being or body. In the Platonicien subtikty
we perceive the distinction of two natures in the Bun, and conse­
quently of Christ, that we have proved to be nothing more than an
ideal incarnation of the great luminary. Such was the character
of philosophy in the famous schools, when the Christianscomposed
their theological codes ; and the authors of these works spoke the
language of the philosophy of their time. Saint Justin, one of the
most sealous defenders of the Christian dogmas, tells us that there
are two distinct natures in the Sun—the nature of light and that o f
the body of the Bun, with which it isincorporated. He adds, that
“ it is the same with the two natures of Christ, the word or logo*,
when he is united to God or the Father, and human or incarnated
word, when he resides among us.” Our readers, we suspect, w ill
not say with the worthy saint, these were the two natures ofa man
called Christ, hut the two natures of Christ, or the Sun adored
under that name.
Light, supposed to he incorporeal and invisible in the system o f
the Spiritualists, is that pure logos which, in the ancient mystical
phrase, was said to reside in the intellectual world, and in4he bo­
som ofthe first God,—butthe light becomingsensible to man when
collected in the radiating,disc of thebody called the Bun Here/we
have the uncreated light which took a form, and came among men.
Digitized by Google
m
It fathat'/bpo^ incorporated or incarnate, descended irfthedfvistbie
worlds wtfieh has been called the repeirerof the sins of the world,
theredeemer who tmmphSover darkness or Satan; fbr,w Christ
is an'ideal pewomfication of light, W'toaaSsta«'waideal,personif­
ication of darkness, physical or meniál,- and all its attendant eeib.
It is nevertheless tme that the system of the Spirituafástsisbased
entirely rupon that of the Mateiisdnts. Spirtandltsin was bottx of
mdteriaitsm, and borrowed from it all the divisions in order1to
create)the chimera of a god, and of a univérse purely intellectual.
That*men cóntemplated visible light before they imagined an in­
visible lights is certain; they most have adored the Sun which
struck’their eyes before they created by force of abstraction an
intellectual Stm; they admitted one universe or God before they
«apposed the unity of a great Being distinct from the universe, yet
enclosing all, and absorbing all in his own substance: bat when
men reasoned upon a fictitious universe or world, as their forefa­
thers did upon the real universe^ and thaintellectual God was en­
dowed with a principle of intelligence, and a principle of' life,
equally intellectual, all the life and intelligence in the world of
realities was said to emanate from him.
The early Christian fathers who, as before observed, were more
or less Platonicien, had one Sun intellectual, of which the visible
Sun was only the image ; one incoporeal light, of which the light
of the world was*a corporeal emanation; finally, ah incorporeal
word and a word invested with a body and rendered sensible to
men. That body was the corporeal substance of the Sun, above
which they placed the uncreated and intellectual light or lajos.
That refinement ofphilosophy has furnished the Evangelist John
with die only morselreaUy theologic to be found in the Evangelists
The word took a body he inhabited,with us,and we have seen
hi* glory ; k is that ofthe only Son of the Father.” ~
The distinction ofintellectual and corporeal Stm is beautifully
set forth in the admirable and really superb discourse that:the
Emperor Julian addressedto the Stm,which contains the principles
of the theology of that age, and furmshes the best explanation of
the two natures of Christ and his incarnation, that foofoh fanatics
talk so much and know so little about,—which conception of the
two natures originated the foble believed literally by imbecile and
Digitized by Google
134
ignorant Christians, which relates that Christ took a body, *ra$
born of a virgin, died, and was resuscitated !
Enough has been written in this and former Letters to shew
that the Christians really have nothing in tbeir theology which
properly belongs to them, and that all that which savors of meta*
physical subtlety in their discourses and dogmas, wqs borrowed
from the ancient philosophers—above all the Platoniciens. Bor*
rowing withont leave and without acknowledgment, is little better
than robbery—a species of literary petty larceney ; but, indeed,
the Christians are thieves in more ways than one—of course we
allude now to the early Christian writers, who palmed off upon
their dupes something original as their own, which was, in point
of fact, neither the one nor the other. They were, besides, fools as
well as knaves ; indeed, these two characters are generally coupled,
as Madame Deshouliers pithily observes,—
' On commence par être dope,
On finit par être coquin.
Which may be translated thus :
.Men commence by being dupes.
They end by being knaves.
Whether Christian or Hindoo,however harsh it may scrand,they '
.certainly cannot help being the most mischievous of all thieves, as
;they rob us of both time and temper, whatever may be their hones­
ty in other respects. But still it must be granted,thatif the Chris­
tian fathers did steal from the ancient writers their thoughts, they
did so with a good grace, backed by the most consummate impu­
dence, most likely, howevever, calculating that the vulgar might
be prevented, by judicious arrangements, from learning either to
read or write, so that there would not be the slightest danger of*
detection ; and as to the enlightened, they belonged to the same
class, and practised the same craft, and would not, as the eommon
folks say, split, or let the cat out of the bag :no, no ; “ there is hon­
our among thieves and so all was kept perfectly snug,—or if an
upstart, dissatisfied individual did write against Christianity, or the
tricks of its professors, these gentle pharisees and soothsayers, (fid '
answer him and his arguments by burning his books, and so gained
an easy victory. This was the way they handled the celebrated
Celsus, whose books were used as church fuel, while those of his
Digitized by Google
135
opponent, Origen, who wrote in its support, were carefully preser­
ved ! Heaven preserve us from the tricks and clutches of such
holy controversialists! But, to return, Maerobe has given us an
idea of the ancient opinions from which those of of the Christians
were borrowed, which idea encloses a true Trinity, of which that
of the Christians is but a copy: “ The world (he says) has been
formed by the universal soul, which soul answers to our spiritus or
mind. The Christians, when invoking their Holy Spirit, call it
also their Creator,— Vmiy Creator Spiritus, $ c” He adds, that
from that mind or soul proceeds intelligence, that he calls mens.
It is this that we have before shewn to be universal intelligence, of
which the Christians have made their logos, or word, wisdom of
God, which intelligence he has made to emanate from the first or
supreme God. Here, then, we have the Father* the Son, and the
Holy Ghost, which creates and vivifies all. The same author
goes still farther and recalls the three principles to a first unity,
which he calls sovereign God; and after having based his theory
upon that Trinity, adds—“ You see how unity, or the original
monad of the first cause, conserves itself entire and indivisible, as
far as to the spiritus which animates the world.
Thus the dogma of the Trinity, or the division of unity or the
first principle into principle of intelligence and principle of universal
life, which encloses within itself in some inexplicable manner, all
things and all partial or second causes, is merely a theological
fiction, and only one of those abstractions which separates for a
moment, in idea, or by thoughts, that which is in itself indivisible
.and inseparable by essence, and which isolates, in order to personify
them, the constituent attributes of a being or universe necessarily
.one.
In the same manner the Indians personified the sovereign power
of God, and gave to him three Sons. H ie one is the power to
create, thé second to conserve, and the third to destroy. Such is
•the origin of the famous Trinity of the Indians,—for the Christians
are by no means the only people who have had Trinities; and we
may add, what should be well remembered, that the Indians had
theirs before the era of Christianity ! They had likewise the incar­
nation of the second person of that Trinity,known under the name
of Vichnou. In one of these incarnations he takes the name of
Chrishnou. The Sun is supposed by them to be the depositary of
Digitized by Google
136
{Mg triple force or power,—and they g^ve ta the Sun tw$lv*formp
and twelve names—one for each months—as we give to Chriift
twelve apostles, ft b in the month of March» or under the ^ign
of the Lamb, that he takes the name Of Vichnou. The triple
power in their theology represents only unity—so that, like the
Christians, they have a trinity in unity, or three in one!
The Chinese hare likewise their Trinity, equally mysterious*
According to them, the first being engendered the second, and the
second the third. With us, the Jioly Spirit proceeds also from the
Father and from the Son. The three have made all things. The
grand terme,or grand unity, say the Chinese,comprehends three—
one is three, and three are one ! The Jesuit Kirker, in a Disser­
tation upon the Unity of the First Principle and the Trinity, traces
back all these metaphysical subtleties as &r as to Pythagoras and
to Mercury. Augustine himself pretends that all the people ofthe
world have opinions upon the Divinity very like those ofthe Chris­
tians,—>that the Platoniciens, the Pythagorians, and many other
philosophers,—Egyptians, Indians, Lybians, Persians, Chaldeans,
Scythians, Gauls, and Spaniards, had manydogmasin common with
them upon the unity of God—the source of light and of good;
to which we may add, that all these philosophers existed ag*B before
the appearance Of Christianity in the world,—and the conclusion,
that the Christians borrowed from them their theological dogmas,
at least in the points which are common to them all, is irresistible.
So much for the mysterious dogma of the Trinity,aboutwhich so
many thonsands of volumes have been written, without conveying
a single definite or truly rational idea; batif doctors live by disease,
soldiers by war, lawyers by litigation, and priests by folly, it is too
much to expect that they would, if they could, destroy these evils.
A man was once taken before a French magistrate charged with
stealing a loaf; the culprit pleaded guilty to the charge, hut urged
that sheer hunger compelled him to do it,—adding, “ Sir, I must
l i v e t o which the worthy magistrate replied that be “saw no ne­
cessity for that." Now, lawyers, soldiers, priests, and others, when
they are charged with grave offences againstsociety,insist that they
must live; but the people begin to say, a we really do not see the
necessity forthat;*' and then we shall have the eommeneementdufin
ofall quackeries.
London: H. Hetherington ; A. Heywood, Manchester; icnd all BookieHeti,
J. Taylor, Printer, 99, Sraallbrook Street, Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
DISPROVED !
B y IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
*4 FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS*
\ 'j : - AS A HUMAN BEING,
Letter J7. weekly. One Penny.
, “ I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
&od formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even i, am the Lord( andbesides
me there is[noSaviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3,10,11.
C hristians, ------ -—
The first part of our work is accomplished; the origin of all
religions, irtcluding the Christian, has been shewn by a reference
to history,—and if our reference to the multitudinous facts of his­
tory,faAsrUqt been so full or complete as some, who love to search,
probe, rand examine, with a view to obtain truth, may desire, it
will, we think, be efficient for all practical purposes. All are not
Searchers and inquirers—-when that searching and inquiring is of a
difficult and abstruse character; besides, the object of these Letters
ikuldt.to give a history of religion, but only so much of evidence,
drained from authentic records, as will suffice to satisfy the unlet­
tered reader, who desires to know, thatinformation, without which
he canhot understand how human errors have taken i^qot, grown
up, and,dike the poisoned trees of fable, spread evil and death
¿round. Error is poisonous-—its antidote is Truth! but there is
no royal road to truth,—the path is beset with difficulty and dan­
ger,—and those who seek and find it, must be bold, enthusiastic,,
and persevering—not to be deterred by danger. This is not the*
language of hyperbole—it is the language of common sense and
plain reason,—nothing but industry, determination^ and perseve­
rance, can emancipate the human mind; but, at the same time, to
Digitized by Google
abaa**tho9
©vwhotriiffer ^bomr us—fe><xm cW4 #4i •
nounoe men—is not the bpst way ta iiripfantrtru^i. His [faf (wi&r
tdimplant a tr«th»than toe*tirpate<an ccrer>;*»>'eduoati4
nfe ip><Apfv
given, errors are for more numerous than truths,-t—for,as fftosge^u
justly observes, “ truths1come single, whilst errors m ain crpw&ri”
bat one truth well understood will destroy all that opposes itfnfor
troth is to falsehood what light is to darkness—they^cannot cp-
exist, for, as m nature there must be either light or darkness,tsoin
man or man’s conceptions there must be truth or error., ,&#rorvis
the Satan, Devil, Great Fiend, or Spirit of Evil personified!/>y
poetic theologiste,—error is moral darkness, wfede tmth fo tno$al
light, personified, and called Jupiter, God, Jehovah, Lord, (fee.
This makes plain and intelligible the Scriptural la»gu^e, that
“ God is a Spirit, to be worshipped in spirit and in truthform as
light was to the Jews, and others,the body of divinity—the diwijie
essence,—and as truth is to the mind what light is to the eye,
darkness being antagonistic and typical of evil pr error,which i^its
parent, the demon ofdarkness was and is the demon ofeiTpp^rS^id
to be immortal, because error is immortal, as darkness is, Both
are inseparable, from the nature of things; but it is with truth;as
With light—the more of these we have, the less of darkness and
error; the strengthening of the one is the weakening of the other:
so we find that in Egypt the triumph of Osiris, or the god of light,
was the defeat of Typhon, or god of darkness or evil; in Permit,
Ormusd, or the luminous deity, was worshipped and adored, while
Ahrimanes,the spirit of darkness and protector of eiror, was dread­
ed as an embodiment of all that is bad inmature. When we read
in the book of Generis that" the earth was withoutform and void,
and darkness was upon the face of the deep,,and the spirit of God
moved upon the face of the waters,” &c , we have the language of
the ancient mystics ; for no man in his senses—no man who does
not sacrifice »¿rise and reason Upon the shrine of folly—will for a
moment suppose it possible that the earth could be without form,
and void; for whatever was, must have had some form,and could
not by possibility have been Void, unless we believe (for we cannot
really think .it) that the earth was and was not at the same
time, or that what was existed without form, and was void, or.that
the spirit of God moved upon the face of that which had no face!
• but all these mistakeshave been a consequence of the false teaching
oftheologians, who, forgetting that God is a spirit, and a spirit of
Digitized by Google
*139
tóvé'^oo,'^aad’that he who hath not lo^e hath notseen God, Ibi*
;€fed1i4òVrè{° have read the Scriptures* and expoundedth* 8crip-
WfthòutfcUOWiiigtbe tfifef meaning of its oontents ; hut tike
to gftea true interpretation of Scripture, whioh
irfèàtbè read aright ere it Can bereahted-: this we do nét propote
Ùsrdd iU'this wbrk, though we ¿nay1attemptit in someother ? but«*
éóáéifié^éxpoéitioñ ofBiblicalhistory, atleast such portionsusrelate
to,pther^apposed existence of Christ, wiU. now be useful. Thu
Chffefian expounders, or confounders, of the Bible, are^rtaiuly,
fallen1WiWaise, the mostignorant, invincible simpletons, thatayer
pVOfmied the sanctuary of reason,—like certain filthy creatures,
éheydeflìewhile they attempt to undermine the témple oftrue'phil-
t&ppliyv -With sll our boasted Science—With all the practioal im-
ptoVenfl&htfc in the arts of life-—our rail roads, canals, steamships,
a h í wdhdetftd results of human curiosity, pricked on by uvarice,
tM^èònÀtry, Which prides itself upon its enlightenment, is overrun
by fenaiics, whose ignorance is only to be eqnaUfed by their
pfesUti^ptiòq,-—who rave about gods and devilsas thoughbotbgods
m devils were among their faipMiar acquamtaüces,—who talk so
•iuitSly (abputheaven, that sueh vulgar things that belong to earth
bèéin to“
these celestials as unworthy ofregard. They teli tis what
i*,1What was, and1that which is to bé, which, if all do not believe,
fcéins tobe thèir portion ; from which horrible place there is, we
are toM,ho redemption They ate far better acquainted with the
government of hdl than the government of earth*butthen, indeed,
the eartft dhder íhéirte&ehitíg is butaheHin miniature,—so that in
dfescribihg the òué they*$ive a toleritbly cometa account of the
Others Thdir descríptíOfis Of hell áre wÀiròated sound and ortho­
dox, though notWo¿Ttheit«descriptionsentirely^agree; they cannot
alTbb accurate, though t#the main tbèy teay be*toieraWy correct ;
ahd we are tòM that itisra1pit to which there is «crbottom-^full of
devils of ill sorts of Shaphs, With some green devils, which are
éhhpèless, like Miltòn'sDeUth,—shapes they can hardly be called
'thatsbapèshaVenòne—«-whoseOnlyoccupation seemstobetoroastand
torture and torment, by sundry tricks,those unfortunatesouls whose
deeds done in the flesh have beOn displeasing to the Deity, that is,
to his agènts the prierts, who are rarely particular as to what may
be said about religibnor Deity, if theyare left alone. These people
are remarkably sensitive when the honour of Deity is concerned—
whenthe honour Of Deity and their own power and emolument^
Digitized by Google
are QO&etgtod* Thisgreatly!prowled Me&sre,tikeatlebrated:Ffencb
wit, who, when in one of hisooraedies he made an/exposed^the
rogueries of the priests,found that hehad greatly firmed:aridthrm*
himselfinto mlions’den withoutany.ofthe prefomatr^ podteetioa
afforded to the lucky and ^prophetic Daniel; buta friend lot/him
intothegrandsacvet,by saying* A h!Motiare,ifyon badbeeiusoon
lanttb writ#against reUgion» you would have been perfectly,safe4
buiyou/wrote against th* priestsy and that priests willnever en*
dure.’1 .Therein an old proverb, that tt what can’t be curedmost
be endnsed,’’ and the modern priests have found to their cost,, that
the arm of flesh, upon which they formerly relied, is now palsied,
like that of the tyrant Gloster—it is shrank up like a withered
shrub. Persecution,once the staff which supported their giant cor-t
roptiooe, is now snapped asunder! and if the priests ofJbese times
rely upon persecution as the prime support of their power,,they
willfind it asa “ hrokenreed, which notonly basely fails, butcruelly
wounds the hand that rests upon it.” Already they have,many
splinters sticking in their flesh—true thorns goading them into win*
dom, which, however painful, do not convince priestly sufferers
that the reed is a broken and dangerous one; they are incurable
in their M y, and armed to the teeth in their own incurable and
horny bigotry; the arrows of reason cannot reach them;, they
strike, but do not penetrate,—so the Bible, which ought to be the
booh9telling ns of things as they were—is made an instrument of
despotism~wielded by knaves and fools 2
It has been contended that neither a god nor man called
Jest» Christ existed in. Jerusalem; but, as stated in a former
Letter, it is not contended that neither a man or men called Christ
once existed in Jerusalem, any more than we should deny that a
man named Bntma, Vishnou, or Chrishnon, once did certain things
in India;or that a man called Hercules;once played a conspicuous
part in Pheneciaaud Egypt; but it is denied that a man or god
called Christ was born of a virgin, performed certain miracles,was
crucified by the Jews, and after remaining three days, or nearly so,
in the tomb, ascended into heaven,—it is denied that a man call­
ed Jesus Christ, performed those wonders, and delivered those
instructions which have been ascribed to him* All Christians will
agree that the story told by ignorant and abused Indian enthusiasts
about the god Brama coming down upon the earth in the form.of
a man, and eating of flesh like a Canibal, js absurd and unworthy
Digitized by Google
141
<tf credit Whet Christian would believe that Cbrishnou, or
Cbriéhna, pr Vishnou, suffered ali the-metamorphoses which ere*
dulwas Indians behaved they did ? Who, one degree above or
befanelunacy, would credit>the idle tales (for idle and most mis*
chisvous they are when taken in relation offacts) about Hercules
andina club,.Balaam and his ass, Sampson with and without his
hair, Jupiter and Juno, Ceres and Bacchus, Proserpine end Plutei
and uhundred other gods and* goddesses, whose histories
ben deemed veritable, sacred, and most holy,—to disbelieve which,
was deemed execrable, and a crime worthy ofdeath. Th4 poet says*
' Would that God the gift would gie us -
To Hoeourselvesas others see us. .
If Christians could see themselves as others see them, they
would befar morehumble—far less self-sufficient and arrogant than
they now are—think less highly of themselves, and far better of
others—have less of love for themselves, and more for their fellow-
beings,—or rather,their self-love would be far more social in its
consequences*
Fearful denunciations are uttered against those whose interpreta­
tions of Scripture are not a la mode;—pulpits ring with the indig­
nant eloquence of divines, who forget the text, "Judge not, lest ye
be judged ; condemn not, lest ye be condemned ; and forgive, as
ye desire to be forgiven ;’v—men who seek to, blow the coals df
bigotry, and re-kindle the torch of persecution at the almost expi­
ring embers of fanaticism. Such impotent rage we fear not, and
shall proceed to prove by the Bible that neither Christ nor Abraham
ever existed? but were purely fictional characters. Christ was, as
all Christians, we presume, know, a branch of the genealogical tree
of which Abraham was the root ; but as there can be no branch
withoutroots«—and as the existence of Christ, according to the
Scriptures, is contingent upon that of Abraham,to destroy the belief
in tiie existence of Abraham, is to destroy the existence of Christ.
It is easy to lop a branch from a tree without disturbing,its root,
but when the root is destroyed the branches wither; and where
there never was a root, tiiene never could have been branches.
Priests, who are ever straining after types and shadows, affect to
believe that what is written in Zechariah, “ Thus speaketh the Lord
of Hosts, saying, Behold the man whose name is The Branch;
and he shall grow up out of his place, and he shall build the temple
of-the Lord," is typical of Christ ; but theological eyes can see—
theological ears can hear, what can neither fte heard nor seen by
Digitized by Google
142
others. What a man whose name is^ the Brkncfo, ^owfri^Óut df
his place," has to do with Christ, wé aie at a*lóésto dfetìòSHéi'; tfot
this probably arises from the obliquity of oui tnentáíHi¡ñbii, #fii£h
cannot perceive relations that àòuùd belleVèrkèàîf; iíí’hosé0
fífi!riíl8
of so plastic and accommodating a natürë, thdt rt'ètJüftÎTèS#ftsé!ff4o
all occasions, and loses nothing by subtraction;' and mèn^f thbtíb
faith can say as Juliet of her love, u the moie Fgfteíhé"inioWrI
have to give;” and the wider any proposition is ¿f i¥ká&ffiétd
consistency, the more room has faith to play and ëierfcîsë1itfatélf.
Much faith and poverty and spirit are the ihdispens¿blé#tjfh littie
Christians, “ for blessed are the poor in spirit, fbr they staÎÏ ibhëHt
the kingdom of heaven;” and again, “ he who belieVeth shah* t>e
saved, and he who believeth not shall be damnedf* srftháf, ^ovêriy
of mind or spirit, and much belief, theologists considèi’^o'háiidim-
hand,—and consistently enough, denounce reason,temperance,\&C.,
as of the devil. Infidels are, according to these worthies,au aWonti-
nation upon the face of the earth'—men who havë 4i>deserted1the
fountain of living waters, and made unto themseïvéè cíátárt$—
cracked cisterns—that will hold no water.” Of course, by living
waters is meant streams of faith, so that, those whó drinkthem hot,
and thirst after the dead waters of reason, are to die of thirst, dbd
perish everlastingly Í ' ' ‘ *
The faithful we hope not tò convince—the reasonablë óíily áre
appealed to,—and to thesé we undertake to shew that'it is imposai^
ble that what is related in Scripture about Abraham can be true,
or anything morethan an Eastern romance or ftltegòry. The Bible,
say our preachers, is a revelation from Deity, and call upon' üs to
believe it upon that ground ; but then, after all, reason mustjudge
whether it be revelation or not. Those who declaim agaiúfst rea­
son are not expected to be reasonable,—thè pillar of their ortho­
doxy^ faith, and their pride is not to try books and syétéèrt^by
their sense, but bend their sense to books ‘and systems. The*fea-
sonings of theologists generally turn upon onè proof/ thaï'may be
likened to a mathematical point, which is without length, breadth,
or thickness, and therefore purely imaginarÿ. Thère is no sttch
thing as à mathematical point, say thè men of science, so that, a
mathematical point is in reality no point' at all ; and if the compa­
rison hold good, theological reasonings have no point, ëaVe an
imaginary one,—existing only in the minds of those who impose
upon it ; but to proceed with our expoation : *
‘ “ The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the Son of David,
Digitized by Google
rtb$s<mof — sq suya tlie first verse of tlie first chapter of
thus ,Christ, (.accprdiug to Matthew, descended in.»
^io^iirpna .Abraham,-r*s we are afterwards told in.the saipe
all the generations from,Abraham to David are four«
oief^vgen^rationa; and from David until the carrying away into
.©abylpn. ar^ fourteen generations; and from the carrying away
'into Babylon unto Christ are fourteen generations/’ Now, this
Abram 0£ Abraham, or, as called among the,Arabs, Ibrahim, w£s
said to bu the son of one Tprah, “ And Terah lived seventy years
/Ondi bflgat, Abram, Nahor, and Haran then we read that “ the
days pf Terahyvere two hundred and fivp years ; and Terah diedin
Harau immediately afterwards we are informed that “ The Lord
had said.nf^tQAbram, Get thee out of the country, and frpm thy
kindred, and:from thy father’s house, into a land that I will shew
thee. So Ahram departed as the Lord had spoken unto him ; apd
Lotwentwith him; and Abram was seventy ami five years old
.when he departed out of Haran.” Here there is a slight discrep­
ancy in the two statements,—Terah begat Abram when he was
seventy and five years old, and died at the good old age of two
hundred and five years. So that, at the death of Terah, according
to vulgar arithmetic, Abraham was 135 years old when the Lord
said, “ Get thee out of thy country, &c. but theologists have an
arithmetic,oftheir own, and have one reply to all objections, which
is, that they, the objeetprs,must have faith, and then all difficulties
will vanish—mountains will be removed ; those who have it will
believe'Abram was but 70 years old when Terah died according
.to Scripture,apd 135 years old according to Cocker. Contradictory
absurdities andimpossibilities, allsink beforefaith. A greatdeal more
is said.about Abram ; and among other interesting particulars we
are told, that “ the Lord appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre -
and.he sat in the tent dppr in the heat of the day ; and he lifted up
t^iaeyes and looked, and, lp, three men stpod by Jiim ; and when he
saw them, he ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed
him9t1f towards the ground.”. This tete-a-tete between the Lord
and Abraham is inexplicable to mere reasoners ; for what are we to
understand by the term Lord, if not Jehovah the great God of the
Universe ?—b.ut then,,,how can we suppose that Abraham would;
addresssuch language as the following to God, or Gods ?—for there,
were, according to Genesis, three of them in the shapes of men *
hut, the Trinitarians contend that three are one ! so we must un­
derstand, if it be understandable at all, that thè three angels
,H3
Digitized by Google
144
Wére,in some mysteriousand inexplicable manner,one. Tidemy£
Seriousness and inexplicability is rendered more inexplicable and
mysterious the farther we proceed with the text ; for after*it Istoaid,
that Abraham ran to meet them at the tent door; he addresses
'fftem, and said My Lord, as though the three were one ; which
Idea is strengthened by the fact, that Abraham always addresses
the three as My Lord, a&d not Mÿ Lords—and the Lord always
replied ; So that, if there were three, one only anted asepokseman ;
but, to suppose that God took an angelic, or human shape, and
talked with Abraham in thé plains of Mamre, is, of course, out of
the question^ especially when we consider the language Abraham
addressed to him, or them, for he said, “ My Lord, if now I have
bund favour in thy sight, pass not away, 1 pray thee, from thy
servant f and again, he is exceedingly familiar when he says»
uLet a little water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet^
tad rest yourselves under the tree but certainly, not at al
according with Sober notions of Deity. A God, devil, or angel
tâth duty feet, and so tired as to need to rest himself under à fra»
bavours ofthe absurd. :
Longinus, the great critic, dwells much upon the sublimity’of the
Scripture; butreally the above borders uponthe ridiculous^ dur
Wblime, du ridicule, says the proverb, aùd whether it is sublirhe or
ridiculous to talk or write about Gods washing their feet,or resting
themselves under trees, we leave others to determina. W e read
also, that Abràhstn said “ and I will fetch a morsel of bread,' and
comfort ye your hearts ; after that ye shall pass on J for therefore
are ye come to your servant. And they said, So do as thou hast
¿aid:" Now let every thinking reader reflect upon this passage*
arid ask himself, or herself, this simple question—oan such language
be received as literallytrue ? The answerofevery reasonable being
must be in the négative, which will lead us to considerations of a
Very grève tad important character,—for if we cannot literaHy
interpret the* language Of Gtenesis, and if the very existence of
Àbrahâm depends upon such literal interpretation, it will be dear
that thé man càlled Abraham nèver existed ; but as we proceed, fhm
Allegorical character will be proved by Scripture itself, for it is our
intention to destroy the belief in Abraham and Christ, by an appeal
to ancient philosophers, Biblical, and what is called, profane his*'
**y. ’
London: H. Hetherington ; A. Heywood, Manchester ; and all Booksellers.
’ - J. Taylor, Printer, 29, 8maUbrook Street, Birmingham. , J
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
* AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS»
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRBS8ED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS*
L etter 18. WEEKLY. One Penny.
“ I am the Lord thy Ood, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
Qeá formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and besides'
me there is no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3,10,11.
CHRISTIANS, -----------
Hie common cry of Christians is—the Bible, the whole Bible,
and nothing but the Bible ; so say we—the Bible, the whole Bible,
aad nothingbattheBible; forby thatsame Bible,wewillproveto all
capable ofexercising their reason, whose brains are notrbenmatzzecL
aad palsied by fanaticism, that the books of Genesis are the books
upon the literal interpretation of which the whole Christian scheme?
depends. All that is written about Christ and Abraham must be
drCeorfkbe, a fable ox a red history: we say it is a feble, and will
prove oarassertion by the Scripture itself. Hast thou appealed
nato the Bible ? then by the Bible mustthou abide,—it is a weapon,
O Christiana! that you have long wielded; but it is now to be used
againstyourselves by thosewhohave deeply studied its contents,not
m the spirit of a Jew, Christian, or Infidel, but in the spirit of a
philosopher, who searches not for evidence or argument to support
some profitable darling theory, but that truth may be established,
and the mind of man freed from the shackles that a grovelling and
most debasing superstition imposes upon it That a lie cannot live,
has passed into a proverb; and if the belief in Abraham and
Christ be a lie, it cannot live,—truth aloné being eternal and im~
mortal, all lies must die. '
The book oí Genesis is either a scientific exposition of the gene*
Digitized by Google
' m
ratten of^things,-or^a mew cosmogonic fafok ;<if the former, it wHI
bear thb test ofa precise aud,searching investigation £ if the tetter,
it wilbnot bear that test; forfalsehood and truth* beingfteccssariAy
antagonistic, have been through all time, are now, and will eternally
be opposed to each other; nor let our Christian readers fear* ior if
*they hold the truth, it cannotperish ; and those who dread investi­
gation, ‘only prove this, that they have not perfect faith* b»t fear,
lest their opinions and systems should be scattered to the winds by
the breath of free inquiry. .
ft is most inconsistent in Christians, who appeal to the Bible as
a casket containing all sorts of moral treasures,,to shrink from the
consequences of such appeal. They say, search the Scripture; but
wherefore are we to search, if not to find that whichi lies hidden
there ; that which we see requireth no searching out, it is that we
see and know not we hope to see and to know by seeking for it.
The outcry against inquiry is the outcry of knaves and fools, who
howl against the march of intellect, and the spread of what they
call Infidel principles, as though possessed by the spirit of a woU*
or, as the poet has happily expressed it, as if “ their currish spirit
governed a wolf, who longed for human slaughter; even from the
gallows did his fell soul fleet, and infused itself into them, for their
desires are wolfish, bloody,starved,and ravenous.'* It is ignorance,
not knowledge, that the wise man dreads^ whether on Scriptural or
other subjects; and they look anxiously forward to the time, when
the some rules of inquiry and reasoning will be applied in morals
as in physical science. It is shameful to fetter the human mind,
and make it bow down to creeds and systems—creeds of human
invention in times of barbaric ignorance, and systems, revolutions
to common sense, established by fraud,falsehood, and treachery,and
now supported by them. No truth in moral science is more dear
than this, that it is ignorance and error, not knowledge and right
reason, which rendersindividuals fullof fancies and apprehension»—
robs them of their usefulness, and gives them over, bound hand hod
foot by their own slavish fears, to the cunningly bold, who triumph
in their weakness,—as observed by Andrew Combe, M.D. in his
Principles of Physiology, “ If, indeed, ignorance were itself a pre­
ventive of danger,*or could proride a remedy when it approached,
then it might be said,that ‘ignorance is b lissb u t as it gives only
the kind of security, which shutting the eyes affords against the
dangers of a precipice, and, consequently, leaves its victim doubly
exposed, it is high time to renounce its friendship and protection,
Digitized by Google
147
«ad to-seek those of a more powerful and beneficent ally. If ig­
norance could direst ns, even of the sense of anxiety attending the
apprehension ot evil, the consequent tranquility of mind, deceptive
though it were, wouldbe,at least, sofhe compensation forsubmitting
to its rule. But, unhappily, so far from ignorance of the nature
and extent of the threatening danger saving us from gloomy antici­
pations, the fact is notoriously the reverse; for the darkest picture
ever drawn, is assuredly that devised by an unenlightened imagination*
Let us, therefore, heed not the stupid and canting cry about the
changer of inquiry, die evils of knowledge, and the happiness of
ignorance; but persevere in the great work of social, political, and
Religions Tetfbrm> examine boldly and calmly, that the chaff of
human opinions may be separated from (he wheat of fact and
philosophy; all of which is the proper object of human reason, that
cannot more nobly employ itself than in the destruction ofidolatry,
physical and moral, the worship of idols, whether those idols be
gods, devils, angels, or men; for all worship is slavish, fearful, and
most irrational, having its root in folly, and the, degradation of .
spirit to which fear ever gives birth. The virtue of the fearful man
is*not to be relied upon, it is a virtue Which, “ Hkewax, melts in its
own fire f' but enough of fear and the fearful, for we write to the
/courageous, not to the cowardly—-to the philosophic, not to the
faithful—to the inquirer, not to the taker upon trust—to the man
e f science, not to the man of imaginings—in short, to the man who
¿seeks for truth, that his reason may be strengthened and his heart
purified,—not the matt who refheeth the truth when it alarms his
fears, weakens and corrupts his reason instead of strengthening itj
and hardens his heart by a soul-debasing superstition. In the words
o f Solomon, “ Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge; but s
fool layeth open his folly. Poverty and shame shall be to him
that refuseth instruction; tyut he that regardeth reproof shall be
honoured.”
We shall not stop here to combat the absurd opinion, (once
deemed incontrovertible, but now abandoned by all Christians who
make the slightest pretensions to knowledge,) that the Bible is an
infallible book, an unerring guide, even though the literal interpre­
tation should be admitted as genuine ; though by the way there are
* almost as many interpretations as divine interpreters, and as many
divine interpreters as parsons, each claiming to be the man who
alone can explain the deep and hidden meaning of the sacred
volume; we say, to combat the argument of infallibility, will bo
Digitized by Google
displaying, our valour, and using what strength we have toveiy
tittle purpose, as we repeat, the point is now given up; and wears
told by orthodox divines, that the Bible is full of errors, “errors
that cannot be numbered,” which is certainly startling to those
who think that the word of God is immutable, unchangeable, like
himself, without change or shadow of turning; and, though not
ourselves over orthodox, or righteous overmuch, we are compelled
to declare our conviction, that if*God hadspoken to man,intending
him not only to hear but to understand, he would have used a
language as clear, as immutable, and eternal, as the truths he in«
tended to convey; but the Bible is not written in such a language,
as will appearfrom the following note, copied from Evans's Sketches
of the Denominations of the Christian World: “ Our English
translation of the Bible was made in the time, and by the appoint­
ment of James the First. According to Fuller, the list of transit*
tors amounts to forty-seven. This number was arranged under six
divisions, and several parcels of the Bible assigned them. Every
one of the company was to translate the whole parcel, then they
Were to compare them together, and when any company had
filched their part, they were to communicate it to the other com-
panics* so that nothing should pass without the general consent.
The names of the persons and places where they met, together
with the portions of Scripture assigned each company, are to be
found in Johnson’s Historical Account of the Several Translations
of the Bible. These good and learned men entered on their work
in thespring of 1607, and three years elapsed before the translation
was finished. From the mutability of language, the variations of
customs, and the progress of knowledge, several passages in the
Bible require to be newly translated, or to be materially corrected.
Hence, in the present age, when Biblical literature has been assi-
dnously cultivated, different parts of the sacred volume have been
translated by very able hands. The substituting a new translation
of the Sidle m the room of the one now in use, has been much de­
bated. Dr. Knox in his ingenious essays, together with others
argue againstit; whilst I)r. Newcombe, the late Lord Primate of
Ireland, the late Dr. Geddes, of the Catholic persuasion, and the
late Rev. Gilbert Wakefield, contended strenuously for it. The
correction of several passages, however, would deprive Deists of
many of their objections, prevent Christians from being misled into
gome absurd opinions, and be the means of making the Scriptures
more intelligible, and consequently jpore beneficial to the world.”
Digitized by Google
14$
Here,then, we have from Christians themselves, the important ad-,
mission, that, from the mutability of language, the variation of
customs, and the progress of knowledge, several passages of the
flible require to be newly translated, or to be materially corrected;
in spite of the great care of the forty-seven learned and holy men,
time and change has changed the unchangeable word of God.
After forty-seven wise heads, aided as they doubtless were by the
ludy spirit, had laboured for three long years Mam intermission, we
are now gravely told, not by Jews, Infidels, Deists, or Atheists, but
such good and learned Christians as Dr. Newcombe, late Lord
Primate of Ireland, the late Dr. Geddes, and Dr. Wakefield, that
we must, if we would save our souls, substitute a new translation
of the Bible in the room of the one now in common use; the text is
to be reformed altogether, say these worthies, in the face of the
threat held out against all innovators and unceremonious liberty-
takers with Scriptural texts, “ Add thou not unto his words, lest be
reprove thee, and thou be found a l i a r i n the face of all this—in
spite ofthe hurricane of passion which threatened to blow them into
eternity, the above divines had the effrontery to persist, that the
present version is little betterthan a forgery—that an entirely new
translation must be made, or if they attempt to mend the old one,
they propose to do it as the Irishman mended his gun, with a new
Otock, lock, and barrel.
The writer'9 gentle insinuation that “ the correction of several
passages would deprive Deists of mauy of their objections, prevent
Christians from being misled into some absurd opinions, and be
the means of making the Scriptures more intelligible, and conse­
quently more beneficial to the world,’’ is really racy, rich, and
highly suggestive. The idea of appealing to revelation as a stan­
dard by which all opinions are to be measured, regulated, and de­
termined, which reason must bend and submit to as being its supe­
rior, and then to propose the correction or mutilation of several
passages in order to meet the cavils of Deists and others, is worthy
of a Bedlamite, and should give the proposer the crown offolly—a
crown so heavy, that, like the crook-baeked tyrant Gloster, he
(night exclaim, “ By heaven! the massive weight put galls my
laden brow.” Why the plain truth is, that if Christians re-trans­
late and exclude from the Bible all that rationalists or reasoners
carp and cavil at, there will not be a single page left,and the word
of God would dwindle down into two pasteboard covers—a volume
constructed after the manner of a back-gammon board, well boupd
Digitized by Google
150
und marked “ Bible” on the outside—butfullof nought but emptw
ness! Yes, rationalists would find a flaw in every page—of course,
we mean those rationalists who would be so irrational as to take as
the letter that which is figurative—an allegory for a matter of plain
and sober history. A knowledge of this double character of the
Bible would, indeed, deprive Deists of many of their objections,
prevent Christians from being misled into some absurd opinions,
and be the means of making the Scriptures more intelligible, and
consequently more beneficial to the world. We thank the Chris­
tian writer for such admirable sentiments—we thank him for teach­
ing us those words, and shall endeavour to profit by them our­
selves, and enable our readers to go and do likewise,—for whodoes
not see that when the “forty-seven” passed with such general con­
sent such grossly absurd passages as the following, they gave a
mortal stab to their system of religion,—for though religion cannot
be destroyed, all systems of religion may, if they be lying systems,
“ as a lie cannot live;,, so that those who systematise religion
should be careful lest they stumble, and in building their state-
theologic house, they take or mistake not “ bricks for stone, and
slime for mortar.” In the first chapter of Genesis we read, “ And
God said, Let there be light, and there was light. And God saw
the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the
darkness. And God called the light day, and the darkness he called
night: and the evening and the morning were the first day.” Then
we read, same chapter, “ And the evening and the morning were
the third day. And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament
of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be
for sign9, for seasons, for days, and years: And let them be for
lights in the firmament oi the heaven to give light upon the earth ;
and it was so. And God made two great lights; the greater light
to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night; he made the
stars also.” Here we have a strange confusion ofideas—a strange
jumble of all sorts of nonsense—when taken literally. The style
of the above passage has been much commended; and Longinus
the great critic, has said that the expressions “ Let there be light,
and there was light,” are sublime. Perhaps so; but however sub­
lime in style, it is extremely silly in matter; for how God could
say—Let there be light, and see the light that it was good,and call
the light day, and the darkness night, before' he had made the
greater light to rule the day and the lesser light to rule the n igh t-
how, in short, taking a common-sense view of the subject, could
Digitized by Google
151
there hüvtí been an evening or a morning, a night aftd a day, with*
out sun, moon, or stars ? Again we read in the 27th verse of the
same chapter, “ So God created man in his own image, in the
image of God created he him; male and female created he them/*
and in the second chapter we read,21st verse, “ And the Lord God
caused a great sleep to fall upon Adam, and he sleptJ and he took
one of his.ribs, and he closed up the flesh instead thereof;’1 so that,
aftercreatingthem male and female,it afterwards appears, according
to the text, that the man was first created and slept, and the Lord
God gently took out one of his ribs, closed up the flesh thereof, and
of the lib made a woman. No one doubts the power of Deity to
act in this or any other unaccountable manner; and nothing could
have been more easy than for God to have so acted, if he desired so
to do; nor is it any thing wonderful to the people of this age, that
a rib should be taken from a man without bis own knowledge; for
the disciples of Mesner, by Mesnerizing and throwing their patients
into a very strange kind of sleep, can cut off breasts, legs, and even
heads, without the patientwincing a tittle, and surely God mayhave
mesnerized or magnetized Adam, and done all related in the text
without difficulty; but it is quite impossible that God could have
created man in his own image,—in the image of God created he
him ; male and female created he them, as stated in the 1st chapter
land27th verse, and afterwards say, as is set down in the 2nd chapter
and 18th verse, “ And the Lord God said, It is not good that the
man should be alone; I will make an help meet for h i m b u t this
little confusion is a trifle. In the 23rd verse and 24th of the 2nd
chapter, there is something more—another trifle; but as it has been
well observed, that trifles mark men’s characters, trifles also mark
the character of books; for Adam is further made to say by the
forty-seven, “ This is now bone of my bone, and flesh of my flesh;
she shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man.
Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall
cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh.” This is strange
logic; and Adam must have been a strange logician; but as it is
presumed, that before the fail he had not studied the art of reason­
ing, he must have spoken, if he spoke at all, by intuition; because,
although he may, by some means unknown to us, have come to the
knowledge that his fair companion was one of his own ribs; by
what strange, incontrovertible process of reasoning (though he
could hardly have reasoned before the fall) he came to the conclu­
sion, because the woman was taken out of him, “ therefore should
Digitized by Google
15 2
* man. have his fatherand mother, and shopM cJ#kvf| uhto luswifi*
and they should be one flesh/' The difficulty which besets all tfcia
is greatly increased when we reflect that Adam could not then have
known anything aboutaman’sleaving his fatherand his mother,and
clinging urito his wife,anymore^than an $x?ter-ohaqge ourang-ou-
tang can knotr what is paasing attins moment in the planetjJupiter 1
As we proceed with oar examination of the book of Genesis, the
necessity ofrtttôfrnottm^the Bible,—in other words,giving^ far.an
possible the true explanation ofUs contents, will be admitted by all ;
and it is idle forsectarians to say, that they scout.alt mere opinions»
all creeds of human invention, and take the Bible tor their guide ;
fhr when they speak of the Bible, they cannot mean a certain num­
ber of leaves, with a certain number of characters marked thereon,
bound in calf and gold ; no, they must mean (if they ¡mean ai^y
thing) the truths that it contains, the dogmas it enforces, in short»
the sum total of its history its morality, and its dogma# ; bat if no
two of those who read"the Bible, attach the same meaning to its
contents, a thousand individuals, each interpreting the Scripture in
bis own manner, mightall proclaim that they took the Bible fortheir
guide, and yet their opinions be wide as the poles asunder^he
Very antipodes of each. And this right of private interprétation,
is what must be granted to the improved and improving spirit of
the age—it demands that, and will be content with nothing Iftsaf
any thing short of the full right of all individuals to interpret^ a*
best they may, the Bible, or any other bookB,is a mast unjust and
irrational interference with liberty of conscience, and that r^ght of
privatejudgment so strenuously insisted upon by the first Protea»
tants and the Dissenters of the present day,—those among them,
tnore especially, who have as yet obtained little political power*
Tfhe Protestants cry alond “ The Bible, the Bible—^we say the
Biblè only is the religion of Protestants perhaps so ; and if the
Protestants can find their religious sentiments and feelings, em­
bodied and proclaimed in the Bible, they act but consistently if they
make their lives and actions harmonize with "its injunctions ; but
let not those wbo do find their religion in fhe Bible hate and pene-
cnte those who do not; nor should those give one reading, or
one interpretation to its contents, fine or throw into a dungeon
those who give an unfashionaMe reading, or interpret disagreeably '
to the great monster called public orthodoxy.
London : H. Hetherington ; A. Heywood, Manchester ; and all Booksellers.
J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Smalibrook Street, Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
‘ AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
• BY »RESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS.
Letter 19. weekly. One Pennt.
“ I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there wee no
God formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Sartour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3,10,11. *
Christians, .... - -
Before proceeding further with oür explication of the book of
Genesis, it may be useful to correct an error which has been going
the round of the press. The error to which we allude is au im­
portant one ; and seems to have arisen out of an observation made
by us to the effect, that we did not deny that one or fifty Christs
may have walked about the streets ofJerusalem, any more than we
deny that one or fifty Herculeses may have existed in Phenecia,
Egypt, or Greece, which observation has been strangely enough
construed into an admission that Jesus Christ actually existed, as
contended by ecclesiastical and other historians; which is certainly
a most extraordinary conclusion for any intelligent reader to arrive
at, as the slightest reflection must Convince all, that in disproving
tile existence of Jesus Christ as a human being, it was not the ex­
istence Ofa Christ that we offered to disprove, but tiie Jesus Christ
conceived by the power of the holy-ghost,horn of a virgin in Judea,
who, after having performed many miracles and wonders, was cru­
cified by Pontius Pilate, atkf aecofifitig to the fable, or history, suf­
fered a glorious resurrection, in the same way that when proving
that thé grand Hercules, worshipped by the Greeks as the son of
Jupiter and Alcemene, was hut a mere personification of the Sun ;
we do not deny (indeed it would be most foolish to do so) that a
Digitized by Google
154
man or men called .Hercules opce Greece The ptyec£
ofth^se Letters is to digprove the belief in. the Jesqs £hrisV*mr4
shipped by Christians; and when that is accomplished, few will
care whether any men in .former tifnesj bore the naraeof.Christ*
Dozens of men called Adonis may have lived in Phenecia, bufe
then, 4d°h*s was no less $. personification;of the S\m> thatis, ike
Adonis whom, fabulists have fold us was beloved, of Y euguSi &c*t
It may be useful here to re-state that we have not, nor do we in­
tend to examine whether the Christian rejigiqn is nrisnot a
vealed religion,—for the philosophy of these times has progressed-
too far, and taken too firm a hold upon the mind of men, to permit
that they should longer dream,or dispute about the communications
of Deity with man—save only those which result from the light of
reason and the contemplation of nature ; nor shall \ve y&i examine
whether an impostor or philosopher called Christ established the
religion called Christian,—all this will be considered in due time;,
but we may observe that even though this last article should be
accorded, that a man of. consummate ability, prudence, and,deters
mination, played a part among the Jewish people, more or less ia ;
harmony with the received history, yet Christians would not,he.
satisfied therewith, for they worship a man-god, a divine moaraii-
tion, a real flesh-and-blpod-deity, in the image of man, who de-r
scended from the heavens to bear our iniquities!—“ a man of sor­
rows, and acquainted with grief;” but we are far.from being so
condescending as to admit, for the sake of conciliating the favour
qf Christian theologians, that such things were : and as to those,
who will be content that we should destroy the divine character of
Christ, and make pf him simply a.philosopher, or a man,,without
attaching to him a divide. character,—that question we candidly
invite them to,consider when our Arptlyri^,°f the Christian Mythos
is brought to a close,—no matter when {or by whom it was estab-
lished—whether, as, before remarked,(it,owe its origin to one or
many,men—whether its.origin date ffqmAh?;reign of Augustus or.
Tiberius, as the mpderp legenfi seems.jtoipdic^teMOnd as is vulgarly
believed*—or whether itmay boast a mttPk‘b5&her antiquity for its
source* namely, the Mithriac .worship,£$ebJjsbed in Persia, in Ar­
menia*in Cappadocia,and evenat Rome, me think. The point*
is, however, not very impotent,r^-fiiit,, it is,important to know
thoroughly the nature of the.Christian worship*whoever may have,
b$en its author, apd wherever it mayhave first taken root.
The impiety and gross irrationality of interpreting literally the
Digitized by Google
%ookotGeneris was dwelt upon in our k st; and in insisting that
theietterof the Scripture kills, and die spirit vivifies^ we only fol­
lowed to the footsteps of the most eminent Jewish and Christian
Writers, who were too learned not to see the absurdity, and there­
fore impiety, of such an interpretation. Origine, the great cham­
pion of the Christians, attributed to the Seripture a triple sense, as
it sppears in conformity with his notion of a triple division in hur
pjan nature,—the first sense literal, and answering to the body; .
the second morel, answering to the soul; the third mystical, and
•nsweringto the spirit or mind : but, as observed by Strauss, in
hi# Life ofChristy “ Nevertheless, he left generally these three kinds
of'sense; to subsister the one by the side of the other, although he
g*ave to them different values ; but in particular cases he pretend^
that tfie literal explication either gives no sense or one that is outrage-
cmly absurd, so that the reader may be pricked or excited to disco­
ver the mystical or hidden sense. We must, without doubt, under­
stood that the literal sense is far inferior, and therefore less useful,
than that which is concealed, and more profound, if, as Origine re­
peats in many parts of his works, that the Biblical recitals, when
understood, teach net old fables, but admirable advice how to live
in justice and in truth, when he sustains that the purely literal sense
w ill lead to the ruin of the Christian religion” Here, then, is a
serious dilemma, upon one or other of the horns of which the
Christians must be placed, which they wijl prefer being gored and
tossed by, it is not for us to determine,—but most, serious is their
position! The literal interpretation, according to Origine, will lead
to the ruin of the Christian religion,-—and we insist that any othejr
than a literal interpretation will equally ruin the Christian religion i
(gothat, ruined, theological Christian professors must be, whichever
course they may choose to take,—we say, Christian professprs will
be ruined—who support any religion that will support them; and
as to the people, they Will be far more religious when there shall
be no professors of religion in existence; but the Christian scheine
has no other foundation^no other conceivable basis—thanalit^ l
interpretation of the bdfekiof Genesis,—to allegorize that book—to
make ofit a tissue offabifes, is to allegorize and make fabulous allthat
is written about a redemption from sin and misery through the
blood of Christ, and to show there 1ms been no fall, no redemption,
pe realgarden ofParadis?» no birth,death,and resurrectionofChrist*
The tree of Christianity has its root in the soil of Paradise, or
no where. -Now, a tree without a root would be an odd tree—such
156
Digitized by Google
lòè
a kind of tre« would be Aie tree of Christianity tf& léw í^f^
the garden of Paradise be not true to the lettePj
tended that to talk about a tree without a root'ÍsÍn:m tiM tf4*£>
reply by asking, whether to talk about a rededi^ôtf ^
is not equally absurd ? Christ, we are told, iáaffiePtS^edíifeifl
world. From what ? Why sin and misery,
was a consequence of the fall, according to
where we read, that “ After God created man nPfiÌBb^^tòxg«y1&ff
the image of God createdhe him ; male and feniSfe*êflièfttiifcfefítifcfóP
And God saw every thing that he had made ;
vqrygoocL Ao4 the evening and thè morttiñg were
Afterwards we find, in the second chapter, if wéIftèrâHÿ^iftflfèrçtet
the text, that though all was good, “The Lori}5GÔâ(;eaS#,ne/ÏF
it noi good that the man should be alone ; I WÜÍ rtìékéltàkifrfp*'
meet forhim.” Then comes the talé, worthy to find apl&tólftNfl&S*
Arabian tales of the thousand and ohé nights,about á gre£frdliíóitt§í*
ftitrpduçed into the woríd by a serpent, who invites the Wónrfttii SW
togatherthe forbiddenfruit; but it will hebetter togive itaéi^ètìtìà&lf
in chapter third, “ Now the serpent wus more subtil th&iÀniÿ ftëèBf
ofthe field which the Lprd God had made. And he said iiStó0^^
woman, yea, hath God said, ye shall not eat of every tréë bf (Sd
garden ? And the woman said unto the serpeht, we rhay éatbfthÀ
fruit of the trees of thé garden : But of the fruit ofthe tréeA
WMérh:5
fcl
in the midst of the garden, God hath said, ye éhall not ektJo f¡it,
neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die. And thè serpentsaid untò the
woman, ye shall not surely die : For God doth know:that in thè
day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened^ ánd ÿë shall be
as gods, knowing good and evil. And When'thé WtAnén'SáWWat
the tree was good for food,and that it Was pleasant tò thé èyès, èftti
a tree to he desired to make One wise, she took of the fruitthétebf,
and did eat, and gave alsounto her husband;With her; añdbé^did
eat. And the eyes of them both wérè opened, and they kbeW'thfct
they were naked ; and they sewed fig leaves together, ánd made
themselves aprons.” " ' ' v,> < ; r
The grievous fault of our first parents, acebrding to the text, as
interpreted, was punished by all the evils inseparable froto a know­
ledge of good and evil; for before the commission of thb fatèi act,
the knowledge of Adam and Evé must have been purely negative,
--they only knew that they did not knów, though howthëy eáifte
at even that kind of knowledge it is difficult, if not impossible, fbr
us to determine. One of the greatest philosophers that everlî$t*d,
Digitized by Google
knew that he knew nothing,—bo that he, after
allfhip^ipfpofliflgg, ll^ter the fall* knew as much as Adam and Eve
Jt>efore the fall ; though it must be confessed that
*fivç!s reply to the wily serpent, “ We may eat of the
of the garden," &c., has much of reason about it,
w to imply or presume that she had some positive
IçiqwlÿfljESf»-elee, how should she know one tree from another, or
Hftvr*jpfebQjituppwer of abstraction, could she compare together
^li^ijliÿv^U ^l^oots, trunks, and branches,—note their points of
tiìfKÙforityr0TndUrónilarity, agreement or disagreement, andinclude
jthemb*\l+aader¿be general term trees ? " \ ™ ^*0
- T^tb? hppk pfGenesis, therefore, we must look foir theTiihdP'
UftenW*dogpta of.the Christian religion ; for even in ¿ è òpMddsóÈ
Cfcftstfeps themselves, the incarnation of Christ was necessary/
beoajasatha serpent bad not subtilly and insidiously seduced *thb
ii^rçqm an called Evé, «because she was the motherof all living:*
{¿bp Siamese twins, these two dogmas are held togeHiër by
whatmay be called a natural fastening ; a forcible separation of thè
IKW q£ Siam would probably have been fatal to both, and 'any
theological doctor who attempts to cut the gprdian knot vvhich tieé
the sin of man through Adam, to the redemption through Jeshi
Christ, most foil; or should he succeed, he will certainly déatroy thé
existence both of Adam and of Christ \ no sin—no reparation ; né
fell-—no redemption l f'•
But the fallof man, or the supposition of the double state of
man, at first created by God, or the good principle, enjoying alt thb
delights of this glorious world, and afterwards passing under thè
dominion of the serpent Satan, Devil, or bad principle, and to a
alate of misery and degradation, from which he.could not bé saved
or withdrawn but by the good deity, the principle Cff good or òf
light,is merely cosmogonic fable, of precisely the same nature &s
-those made by the Magi, orfpriests of Persia, upon Ormusd aiM
-Ahrimanes,—to which foble we have already called the attention &f
our readers. We say, all that is related in the book of Genesis
with regard to Adan^ Eve, and the Serpent, is a cosmogonic fablfe,
of the same character.^s that taught by the priests of Mithrà, or
rathpr,that the fable of Genesis was copied from the Persian books,
where we find that 'the Magi were accustomed to represent the
.world under the emblem of an.egg divided into twelve parts,six of
which parts belonged to Ormusd, the god, author pf good and““Df
light, and six to Ahrirpanes, author of all evil and of darkness.
Digitized by Google
m
T h es^ tw al^ ta ^ te^ < rf p*j&f
copies, andhow the goodaud tha evttoiftstfura r^ t^ d fil^ iftp ilif-
' That dogma of the two principles presiding oyer and ‘gqvyxpiog
all nature, was;not pepuKar to ,the Persian. coamogQflisti<bu& .»#
Plutarch has properly Qbaeryed,was the b^sjs of all thepfogieg*^
to which he adds, that “ Jt is,not accessary to bfifove that jthf*
principles of theuniverse Q^yhe iaanwate bodies, as. Demp<?ri$pa
and Epicurus seemed, to, iioaginfrr—cor that, a pxatter yrithoq^
quality was.organiisd andordabmd by Mo^only MMW* or Jm * h
dence^ mistress of all things, as said hy thfl/Sfofosi for it \h$o&
possible that one only being,good or bad, ooqldhav^been.the cawt?
of all»things, as God, if good, could -not have been the causey o f
«vil. The harmpny of thisworld is a opflabination of oontrar^ **
the cords.ofa lyre,or the stringsof,a harp,whichhendtandunbe^ch.
Never, as the poet Euripides has wisely said, is gopd se^ ^ a d
from evil, there is—-there mast be a melange, or mixture, cpptailtr.
ingthe one and the other. That opinion upon the two pripr
ciples (continues Plutarch) is from all antiquity ; it has pasted
from the theologians and,the.legislators, to the poets, and the» phW
losophers. Its author is not known,;but the opinion is substantiated
and proved by the traditions of the.human race i it is consecra^
by the mysteries and .the sacrifices with the Greeks ancL with-Jhp
barbarians. Every where has been and is acknowledged thedogma
.ofthe two principles, opposed in their nature, which by their <?PXMT>-
riety, produce the melange ofgood and evil we every where»bqbplcL
It is ridiculous to suppose that there is one diapensator only, -who
draws events as a liquor in two casks, in order to mix them together
and give to us the mixture {. for nature produces nothing hem
below which has not both thegood and the evil. But it is neoess**y
to acknowledge two contrary causes—two opposing powers—Hhe
one carrying towards the right—the other towards the left, ami
which govern thus our lives, and all the sublunary world* which
by that reason, is subject to so many,changes and alterations and
irregularities of all kinds; for as no effect can be produced without
a cause, and if the good cannot be the cause of the bad, it is abso­
lutely necessary that there should be a cause for evil and a cause
for good.” . :
It will at once be perceived from the last phrase of Plutarcb* th*t *
the true origin ofthe dogma of the two principles is to be found,jet ,
the difficulty that men have had in all time to reconcile their,
knowledge, that misery abounds with the opinion they watddi wife- \
Digitized by Google
Ïê9
lifigly hétfe emcitaîne&----that a benevolent, tffi-wfse, anAall-power-
frff tìéfty/tàd in Yin hand the universe, and weighed as in a
bedaft'cethe destinies of men. 'if, saM'they, God be all-powerful
aïtd bënevoleUt, Whydoes moral evil evist?1and if he is not all-
powèrfhl, he must be centrollèd àrid thwarted in Ms good intentions
byWoihe èvîl spirit,less benevolent but no less powerfh! than himself!
Thè supposition of one supreme cause could not explain away the
ékiètenée lof eVil, ’ndr1'satisfactorily afecount fof if; and the4two
oppò^iùg^ÉiffetetS led thèin to infer two opposing causes, antagonistic
itf theif- ¿Sature and id their actions. That dogtóa, adds Plutarch,
"has been generally received by all people, and above all by
tifósewho have had the highest repntation for wisdom. They have
all admitted-two Gods, of different talents—if the expression may
b^ permitted to me—one of whom delighteth to do good, the other
delighteth to do evil ; and between thetwo we have all the evil that
exists in the world. To the first is given the tifie of God, and to
the other/that of DeVil or Demon/' '
^In the cosmogony, or Genesis of the Hebrews, we see the samb
twò'prlnòiples—the one called God, the author Of All excellence,
who eiclahns, after his daily toils, that hë‘Sées this tirât he has
n&de is good, u And GOd called the dry land earth, and the gather­
ing together ofthe waters called he seas ; arid God saw that it Was
good/' &C; ; and after him comes another principle', called Deifion#
or Devil, or Batau, who corrupts thé good the first has made, and
introduces evil, death, and sin, among the1human family ; for
though the serpent was much honored by the Judiens and Egyp­
tians, and symbolized with them as Wisdom and étemity, with thè
Jew's thé Serpent w^s despised 'and held in 'Ubofciihation ; indeed,
almost all those things held1in Veneration' by the"Egyptians as
symbolical of physical or moral phenomena^ were execrated by the
Jews; Who were peculiar people, with very confined notions of
things,' and were, in consequence, filled*with antipathyand ground­
less prejudice against th^customs and manners of other nations,^
whose gods they were taught to abhor/ whose altars thèy were
commanded to thtow dowfi/and Whose people they were‘bidden to
put to the edge ofsword. So 'that need not wonder that the
serpent, so much venerated by the Egyptians, should have been
despised by the Jews, and' in their cosmogony made the symbol
of the spirit of evil or of darkness. The cosmogony itself, we wish
our<readers to bear in mind, wascopied from the ancient cosmogony
of tiie Persians, as may be seen by a reference to their books. All
Digitized by Goc e
m
the dogmasusually attribuie&to Mo^pa w * , to harrowed from
the books of Zoroastre, who equally admitted tw^
according to Plutarch, the'one called Ororaaoe and the Other
Ahrimanes. The Persians say of the first, that he was ofthe nature
of light; and of the other, that he wa9 of the nature of darkness.
With the Egyptians, the first was called Osiris, and the second
Typhom—eternal enpmy of the fjrst.
All the sacred books of the Persians and the Egyptians, contain
marvellous recitals and strange allegories respecting the divers
combats that Ahrimanes and his angels delivered to Oromaze, and
that Typhon delivered to Osiris. These fables have been repeated
by the Greeks in the wars of the Titans and Giants with feet in
the form of serpents, against Jupiter, or against the principle of
good or of light; for Jupiter, in the theology of the Greeks, as
Plutarch very well observes, “ answers to the Oromaze of the
Persians, and the Osiris of the Egyptians,
To these examples, cited by Plutarch, which are drawn from the
theology of the Persians, the Egyptians, the Greeks, and the Chal­
deans, many more might be added in justification of what is here
advanced as to the belief so generally spread, that the universe is
under the dominion oftwo rural chiefs, who are ettro&Uystruggling
Jbrmastery, and that tins dogma belongs to all theologies.
The people of Madagasoar acknowledge the two principles; they
give, Eke the Jews, to the bad, the attributes of the serpent 'they
call the good prinoipie Jadbar, op the great God, aU-powpjftil, and
the bad principle they call Aagat; but, like the Christians, though
they maim their God all-powerful, they say he has either not the
power or the will to destroy Angat, or, as we call him, the Devil;
but neither the priests of Madagascar northe priests of Europe can
afiord to destroy the devil—his services are so valuable and neces­
sary to the welfare ofgovernments and religions—that is, governors
and theologians, that they cannot possibly be dispensed with. The.
people ofMadagascar, of Pegu, of Java, and the Hottentots, prgy
notat all to the good deity—he, they consider,is qnite gpod enough
to do without ii^-eO that, the veiy reason given by Christian* why
we should pray to God, is the self-same reason why the hfadages*
oars and others, think we should not,^-so true it is that
Canteenandfancy oftourfhte deride; -
And whatinthis wan’«shameis ’tether*«pride.
London: H. Hetheringtoo; A. Heywtmd, Manchester; and all Bashtellf,
J. Taylor,Printer, 29, Smallbrook Street, Birmingham. .
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
.} J <
p , f - • AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
c BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
- ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS.
Letter 20. weekly. . One P enny.
111 am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me therewas no
Godformed, neithershalltherehe after me. /, even/, am the Lord,andbesides
^ne¿here is no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3,10,11. '
C hristians, -----------
In Genesis we read (chapter 1, v. 31)—wAnd God saw every
thing that he had made, and behold it was veiy good. And the
evening and the morning were the sixth day.” (Chap. 2, v. 1, 2)
Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of
them. And on the seventh day God ended his work which he
had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work
which he had made.” These texts require some explanation
Time, says the author of the Boundesh, or Genesis of the Per­
sians, is in all, twelve thousand years; the six thousand of God
include the signs of the lamb, the bull, the twins, the lion, and the'
virgin, making six thousand years; for the Persians supposing, that
from time without bounds, or from eternity, arose a certain limited
period, which, however, renewed itself unceasingly; they divided
such period in twelve thousand parts, that in the eastern style of
‘allegory, they nan^ed years. Six thousand of these periods or years,
they said, belonged to God,or the good principle, and the other six,
to the Devil or bad principle—or as they call them, Ormusd and
Ahriraanes. And, in order that their meaning might not be mis­
taken, the Persian priests made’bach of these divisions, or each of
these thousand, parts, answer to one of the signs through which the
Sun passes, or seem3 to pass, during the earth’s annual revolution.
Digitized by Google
162
The first month, say they, answers to the lamb, the second to the
bnll, the third to the twins, &c. It is under the six first signs, or
under the six first months of the equinoxial year, that they celebrate
the reign of the beneficent Deity, or the principle offight; and it is
under the other six signs that they place the action of the malevo­
lent Devil, or the principle of darkness; and it is at the seventh sign,
answering to the balance, or the first of the autumnal signs, the
season of fruits, when the colds of winter penetrate in our hemis­
phere, that they say, commenced the reign or empire of darkness
and of evil. #
The reader will remark, that it is after the season of fruits that
the genius of evil, according to the cosmogony of the Persians,
spreads in the world his fatal and most terrible influence, covering
one half of the globe as with a veil of mourning, converting its
fluids into solids, and making of these one stiffened heap—disorgan­
izing the plants, &c. It is then that man discovers the evils of
which he was ignorant during the spring and the summer, in the
delicious climates of the northern hemisphere.
The supreme God, according to the writer of the Modinel el
Tawarik, in the beginning created man and the bull in an elevated
place, where they remained three thousand years without evil.
These thousands of years included the lamb, the bull, and the twins.
They then remained yet three thousand more years upon the
earth without enduring pain or contradiction, and these three
thousands answer to the cancer or crab, the lion, and the virgin.
Here then, we have the six thousands spoken of above, under the
name of thousands of Gods, and the zodiacal signs affected to God,
or the good principle.
After that, at the seventh sign, answering to the balance, evil
appeared, and man commenced to till the soil, or, in the language of
Genesis, the curse was pronounced; (chap. 3, v. 19) "In the
sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the
ground ; for out of it wast thou taken: for dust thou art, and unto
dust shalt thou return.”
In another part of the Persian cosmogony it is said, that all the
duration of the world, from its commencement to its termination,
has been fixed at twelve thousand years; that man bn the superior
portion of the globe, that is to say, in the northern and superior
hemisphere, lived without evil for three thousand years. He was
without evil for yet another three thousand years, when Ahrimanes,
or the spirit of evil, appeared, who drew all sorts of evils and wars
Digitized by Google
163
and pestilence in the seventh thousand, that is to say, under the
sign of the balance,upon whichis placed the celestial serpent. Then
was produced the mixture ofgood and evil, of happinessand misery.
Man had thus far been favored by the Deity, as written (chap. 1,
v. 28) “ And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruit­
ful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have
dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and
over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.” Man was
then good, not having plucked the fatal apple, (chap. 1, v. 31)
“ And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it
was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth
day.” But, in the season of fruits, when the wily serpent, orserpent
of evil, introduced cold, sin, and death into the world—orwhen in
the mystical language of Genesis, (chap. 3, v. 22) **And the Lord
God said, Behold the man is become as one of us, to know goodand
e v i l &c. “ Therefore, (chap. 3, v. 23, 24) the Lord God sent
him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence
he was taken. So he drove out the man ; and he placed at the
east of the garden of Eden, Cherubims, and a flaming sword which
turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life.”—Or in the
language of the Persian allegorists, Ormusd had loaded man with
all sorts of delights; but the god Ormusd had a wily rival in
Ahrimanes, the prince of darkness, the most determined enemy to
man, who poisoned the most precious of Ormusd’s gifts; and to this
chiefof darkness man became the victim, at the moment when the
Sun, or Ormusd, the greatgod of Day, retreats towards the southern t
climates. These long nights re-take their terrible empire, and the
murderous breath of Ahrimanes, who appears under the form, or
under the ascendant of the serpent of the constellations, carries
devastation and misery into that Paradise, or garden of delights, in
which Ormusd had placed man. Here then, we have the theo­
logical idea that the author of Genesis has taken from the cos­
mogony of the Persians. The idea is precisely the same, but the
manner of setting it forth is agreeable to the different kind of genius
of the two people. Whether the Persians were indebted for the
idea to the people of any more ancient but now forgotten nation,
cannot, perhaps, be satisfactorily determined; but it is certain, that
the Hebrew books of Genesis is a mere copy, as regards the idea of
the Boundesh, or Genesis of the Magi or Persian priests.
From what has been written, the conclusion is inevitable, that
the evil introduced into theworld is winter, and who irom such evU
Digitized by Google
will be the Redeemer ?-—who,butthe godofSpHng,orthé god Sun*
in his passage under the sign of thè Lamb, of whom Christ,the god
worshipped by Christians,assumes all the fórma, for he is the Lamb
who repairs all the evils of the world, evils that the serpent intro- *
duced so subtilly in the garden of Paradise ; and it is under the
emblem of the Lamb that Christ is represented in the monuments
of the first Christians.
It must be evident, that the whole story about the fall of man,
relates to the periodical physical evil, of which every year the earth
is the theatre, in consequence of the retreat of the Sun—that great
source of life and light to all that breathes, moves, and has a being
upon the surface of this globe. That cosmogonic tale is nothing
more than anallegorical picture of the general phenomena of natnre,
and the particular influence of thè celestial signs ; for the serpent,
or the great adder, the cause of siu and death, is the serpent of
winter, which, as the Balance (one of the constellations) is placed
upon the limits, or boundary-line, separating the empires of the twp
principles—in other words, upon the autumnal equinox. Here,
we have the true serpent, of which Ahrimanes takes the form in
the fable of the Magi, as in the fable of the Jews, to introduce evil
into the world ; also, the Persians call that malevolent genius, the
Serpent Star, and the celestial serpent, the Serpent of Eve. The
following is from the Boundesh or Genesis of the Persians, MAhri­
manes, or the principle of darkness and ofevil, that power by whom
sin comes into the world, is seen in the sky, under the form of a
great adder, accompanied by all kinds of evils and bad geniuses,
who search only to destroy.” It also observes, “ When had
geniuses desolate the world, and that the serpent star marks out fór
itself a course between the sky and the èarth, that is to say, mounts
upon the horizon,” &c. . '
Now, the epoch of the annual revolution of the celestial serpent,
when united to the Sanche mounts upon the horizon with that stary
is, when the Sun arrives at the Balance, where the constellation of
the serpent extends itself, that is, at the seventh sign, setting out
from the Lamb, or that sign under which it has been shewn, thè
Magi fixed the commencement of the reign of the bad principle,
and the origin of evil in the universe. '
In the Hebrew Génesis the same expressions are not employed
as in that of the Persians ; but the Genesis of the ancient Tuscany
is, in all the rest, conceived in precisely the same terms as that of
the Hebrews, and has conserved that allegorical division of time
164
Digitized by Google
165
spoken of in the Persian Genesis, daring the which, the powerful
action*ofthe San, or soul of nature, is exercised. In the books of
the ancient Tuscans it is thus expressed':
u The God, Architect of the Universe, has employed and conse­
crated twelve thousandyears to theworks that he has produced; and
he has divided them in twelve times, distributed in the twelve signs,
or houses of the Sun. During the first thousand, he made the sky
and the earth. During the second, the firmament that he called
the sky. During the third, he made the sea and the waters, which
flow upon and through the earth. During the fourth, he made the
two great lights of nature. During the fifth, he made the souls of
birds, of reptiles, quadrupeds, and all animals which live in the air,
upon the earth, and in the waters. Duringthe sixth, he made man.”
“ It seems (adds the author) that the first six thousandyears having
preceded the formation of man, the human race should subsist for
the other six thousand y e a r sso that all the time,from the com­
mencement to the consummation of that great work, may be en­
closed within a period of twelve thousand years.
If the Christian doctors who argue so profoundly against the
validity of argumentation, when religion is in question, who are
wonderfully industrious in shewing reasons why reason should
not be used—if the fathers of the church, who were nothing less
than philosophers, could not, with all their disposition to believe,
swallow and digest such gross absurdities, nor explain the book of
Genesis without recurring to allegory—-if nought but the key of
allegory could open the closet where the true sense of Scripture
lay concealed—if they found that to interpret literally was to shock
reason and cover the Sacred Books with ridicule,—surely it will be
permitted tous, who, living in an age boasting of its enlightenment,
and feeling that it is better and nobler that men shpuld be good
reaeoners rather than good believers, to shew the true character of
such marvellous histories—give to them their true interpretation,
and raise or tear aside the veil of allegory which conceals their
moral beauty. Yes, -let us follow in the footsteps of Origines, one
of the most learned writers of whom the Christians can boast, who
boldly declares the book of Genesis to be a book of absurdities-—
*yhen literally interpreted, or when read by those who do not, or
cannot, understand that there is a hidden and a revealed meaning
in Scriptural passages—a literal and a figurative sense. That doc­
tor, after ridiculing the idea that the tree of life in the garden of
Paradise was a real sensible tree, which had the virtue of con$er7
Digitized by Google
166
ving life, &cy continues, and compares the fable of the temptation
of Adam to the fable related about the birth of lore, who, it is
related, had for his father, Porus or abundance, and poverty for
his mother,—he sustains that a verylarge portion of the Old Tes­
tament is fabulous—that what is there related to have taken place,
could not by possibility have happened, and are therefore nothing
more than fictions which conceal certain secret truths.
As to those who are content to acknowledge in Christ a Redeemer
.God, and yet cannot belieye in the adventure of Adam and Eve,
the serpent, the wonderful tree, and the fell of man, which alone
gave birth to the necessity of a Redeemer, we charge them with in­
consistency,-—and cannot see by what means they can escape from
or rebut the charge. If no fault was committed by Adam—if
there never was a Paradise, or a talking serpent, or a real tree of
good and evil—how could the Lord God have driven Adam out of
a garden which never existed ?—or how should he put enmity be­
tween the serpent and the woman, if no such serpent existed ?—or
how should he inflict misery and death, as a punishment of the
human race, in consequence of the sin of Adam and Eve—if
'Adam and Eve were not real personages ? If the facts were not
as the text of Genesis announces, what confidence can be placed in
an author who deceives in his very first page, and an author, too,
whose work serves as a basis to the religion of the Christians ?
Verily, the religion built upon such a foundation must be unstable
indeed! If those who support old orthodoxy are reduced to the
necessity of acknowledging that there is a concealed sense, they
will be compelled to recur to allegory, and we desire no more;
it is indeed the only crime that Christians can charge uswith. All
that will then remain for theological critics to do, is simply to shew
by sound argument and calm reasoning, that though an allegorical
explication is necessaiy, yet that ours is not the true one,—and
we have no wish to escape behind the text, “ Judge not lest
ye bejudged”—as we freely judge, we desire to be judged by those
who have well considered the whole subject, and axe competent to
the task; for we are fox from desiring thatopr readers should have
faith in, when they should rather freely canvass? opr opinions.
Texts have been cited—facts carefully collected—the phenomena
of the heavens, and the origin of all systems of religion, searched
into,—let those who can, and dare, bring forth other texts—other
facts—explaining better the phenomena of the heavens, and shew
that religions could have had any other origin than human igao?
Digitized by Google
167
ranee,-—and the consequent hopes, fears, and errors of men, any
other basis than human misconceptions as to physical phenomena,
and the causes ofthat phenomena,—religious feeling, which at first
must have been a sentiment, not a calculation, was no sooner sys­
tematized than it was corrupted. Religion is not a science, that
it may be reduced to system, but a sentiment springing out of
human contemplations of the mysteries of things. Nature speaks
to man with a mostmiraculous organ, but few ever hear—nonecan
entirely comprehend her ; and, however melancholy may be the
reflection, it is nevertheless true, that men are violent in their ad­
vocacy of theories and systems, whether of religion or politics, in
the ratio of their ignorance ; and it is manifestly true, that all reli­
gion is based upon opinion merely—opinion too, which, like the
waves of the great Atlantic, is in never ceasing motion,—yet do
men who truly have “ madmen within them,” foolishly aim at pro­
ducing a dead-sea stillness—forgetting that stagnant opinions, like
stagnant waters, always engender corruption.
We shall now take leave of the garden of Paradise, its mystical
tree of good and evil, and its no less mystical serpent,—feeling that
enough has been written to satisfy any considering mind, that if we
would get at the meaning of what is contained in the book of Gen­
esis, we must not stop at the literal sense, which is most absurd,
contradictory, and (if any thing Can be) most degrading to Deity.
As observedby Dr. Strauss, inhisIntroductionto“TheLifeofJesus,”
“ Divine things could not have been thus performed, or things thus
performed could not have been divine but that Doctor, while he
disputes the literal or naked sense now attached to the writings of
Genesis by orthodox theologians, condemns equally the orthodox
religionist and the theological rationalist ; and as remarked by M.
Lettré, “ after condemning both these parties, he substitutes the
opinions of the theologians who regard these recitals as mythosis,
that is to say, as the production of the sentiments, ideas, and beliefs
which predominated in the first Christian communities.” Accord­
ing to Strauss, Jesus having inspired during his life, and left after
his death, the belief that he was the Messiah, and as the type of the
Messiah already existed in the Sacred Books, andin the traditions of
the Jewish people, there was formed among the first Christians a
history of the life of Jesus, in which the particularities of his doc­
trine and of his destiny combined themselves with that type, which
passed by successive modification down to the period when it was
definitely fixed in the canonical Evangelists.
Digitized by Google
"It will be seen from the above, that there is avvvi^^egim between,
our teachings anetithose- of òur learned- countryman, Strauss, to.
whom may be applied the words lie has himsolf dfce<twhen Speak­
ing of Origines : “ he abstained from giving a greater extension to
that mode of conception'fflfce alÈ^SBi&l)1
—in part, because that he
was hnpself engaged by his prejudices in the belief of the superna­
tural ;fin |*ar^ because that he feared to scandalise,the orthodox
ChurcS but while truth compels ns to declare highly-against the
wap{,Qfjj^eryerp,rmoral .Stamina of the Great German,—yet it is
but fair to state, that his great work, a TfàehJtyiQJTfèlfìÉfàdfjft-
sidered in a theqtpgical goint of\ view^ oi^e q£ the most important
that has issued from the press during me laàt cètìtury. Many of
our readerslieve supposed*“T h sE xisted ^ fCJ^p^p^gj*oved,”
Was a mere re-print or translation of Strauss, which all will now
hay© anpppprtunity of seeing is not thefact The German Jew i&
now occupied with a translation of Strauss ; and as hts òbjebfA
two-fold,-—first, to correi ^tfie erroneous notion as to “ The Exist-
èhcé oÌ^Clhri^ DiÉrprdved/^being written by
condly, by publishing ir ih weekly numbers, to bring^itwithin¿horr
reach—as it were, to the very doors—of the thinking,*^95^ 4^83
poorer clsissésfof «òdlety^who, had the translation ^eep publj^dd
in a voiume; or volumes* woulddtàve been shut out from {hpincaj-.
chiatte benefits it is fckfely to bestow. Tbe pepplexnust he epjj^ht-^
eried—they Must be-freed from vainnotìQnsafld snpCJ^titiousfears,.
ere society cèri be purified,;and. eachmu&ivbe a “,l»w ui^to
himself/* How it?'happened tiiafc*otf* readers^nd the prpss made ;
the mistake of su^j^in^ that' Dr.*^au©e e ^ 0wro^fn,w^lt c^-
proVing the existbtìfcfe/àà a hilmanbeing, of Jesufr Phrist,4f
cult to say; but pròbàbly' they mistookthe fimport of e,remark*
contained irt this work,*1thatihe aoilwta^e^ of Straps,
philosophy would appé&rin theserLetters,’’. ;;-, v,v, v ,(i
1 Those who consult the tramlatioai^be fitHt number ofwhicb,.
has appeared)^11 soon digeoveria^hair^d^ in whatwe
¿¿ree; nór is it iwceewiry-tOiÌMy^ than th#t the
translation shall bè (fls fer ad‘oiir^Wtiesrwill enable na to make
it) a faithful one—-èónVdynig/in ;thé.‘tàpa|40et aod.clearesfmftnner
that our knowieSgè of Et^lishaltaag^ge^ $pnpe- t
and spirit ofthè%uthór^/’i—aohtsilwbivihirj lo - 1to U
------ r -------. j/i ~
h "— ^ -*•* ■ Ir ' r — 77*--------¿ / f H 'r>
,lLoad«««:vH. ,&<Heyi^djManqhester; and alt Booksellers.
,V‘/*Jpl^or?Printer,‘20, Sraallbrook Street, Birminghatn'. • 7,1 ^* **f>
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCEO
FCHRIST
A | A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
•T IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
- ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OP ALL DRNOMINATIOKL
L et t e r 21. w eekly . O ne P enny.
" I im the Lord thy rtod, the Holy One of Israel. - Before methere wm w
€M formed, neithershall therebe after me. /, eren /, am the Lord,and besides
meRiereis noSaviour.”—Isaiah XLIEI. 3, 10j 11,
C hristians, ----------
The progrese of civilization necessarily modifies the religioas
sentiments of individuals and rations; forreligion, although a mers
sentiment, having its origin and support in the. explained action of
Nature, and the wonderto which such mysterious phenomena give
birth, it varies with the never-ceasing variations of human condi­
tion. Not only has every phase of civilisation its corresponding
and inseparable religious phase, but every step in the mareh of
improvement—giving a higher tone to all the sentiments of man;
that sentiment—called retigkm—cannot be excluded,-—and equally
with the rest, vibrates harmoniously with the spirit of the times.
In vain may philosophers strive to separate intellectuality from
sentimentality,—calling certain conditions in contradistinction to
states of pure feeling; for though these two results of human
organism may be, in order to help the human mind, considered as
essentially distinct, there is, nevertheless^ so far practically, a unity,
that the one cannot be degraded or improved without the degrada­
tion or improvement of the other; the one cannot suffer or enjoy
alone, or in a state of individualization—the one cannot exist with­
out the other. As wise would it be to look at the first break of
dawn for the full tight of day—as the noon day of morality and the
twilight of reason. The morality of nations may be considered
Digitized by Google
170
frSni what they know—but not ad independent^of jit4 fipr
though our sentiments cannot properly be called pus knowledge,
tfiey undoubtedly"springout of it,—the first giving birth, form, con­
sistency, or in one word, character to the second. If this be, and
we think the hypothesis will hardly be denied, it will appear, that
the right use of reason, not confining these terms to a pedantic or
merely logical sense, wijl not only largely contribute to moral pro­
gression, but is that alone which can develope or draw forth the
germs of good, which, as the ice-bound flame, are latent in m%nF
These considerations open a new road for the free inquirer; as
it will enable him to trace with precision, the cause and effect of
religion, and how far it is dependant upon, or modified by, the ad­
vance of philosophy. Tt is evident, that the simple water-drinking
Gentoo, whose sum of knowledge, though small, has made manifest
to him, that to destroy life, or even to injure any living creature,
is not good,—will, in his conception of powefs more than human,
or states of immortal existence, be regulated by the conclusions of
his own mind—drawn from his intellectual resources. It is true,
that in spite of hi9knowledge, the poor Gentoo may dream
Of God«-—
^passionate, revengeful, and unjust,
'Whoae attributes are—hate, revenge, and lust.
But thus it will be, in spite of his knowledge, which, borne down by
the weight of terrors, has still an elastic spring, and eagle-like, tends
to soar upwards—an eagle, however, without the necessary com­
plement of feathers in its wing, for knowledge may properly be
called humanity’s wing, which only requires to be strengthened
that it may soar with perfect safety upwards to the highest regions
of speculation. The evil is not that men speculate so much, but
it rather is that they know so little,—and mistaking their speculations
for realities, they blindly fall into the deep and frightful abyss
of pride and fanaticism. There is nothing absolutely hostile to
human progression and universal happiness in the religious senti­
ment, which may, and will undoubtedly, receive a higher develop­
ment, strengthening with the strength of reason, for the religious
sentiment has its origin and support in the intellect of man, when
contemplating the mysteriousness of things, and its own relationship
to things, or the thing called universe ; but, though it* may be al­
lowed, that there is nothing absolutely hostile to human progression1
and universal happiness in the religious sentiment, there is a some­
thing quite incompatible with human'advancement, liberty,, and*
Digitized by >o<; e
171
happiness,inareligioussystem,creed,orformulae, based uponreligious}
sentiment.
, That the character of a religion and its usefulness is determined
by the progress of just ideas, it seems hardly necessary to insist
upon ; but, because the reason of man considered in its totality, or
as unit, gives the law to the religious sentiment, holds in check the
vagrant imaginings, and gives its own colour to the body offaith; by
that we must not be understood as admitting that religion is based
upon just ideas, or the reason of things, for, as by the very terms
reason and faith, we include the idea of difference, if not of opposition,
it will be allowed that faith is not reason, and reason is not faith ;
hence, the expression of My Lord Verulam, “ Give unto reason the
thingswhich arereason’s, and unto faith thethings which are faith’s.”
The religious sentiment, say Christian writers, is indestructible ;
agreed; for human ignorance is indestructible, and human ignorance
of the how and the wherefore, of the causes, existence, and the ends
to which all tends, are subjects about which faith, as it employs
itself, is manifest, that were there nothing mysterious in nature,
there would be no belief or faith—which is simply the faculty to
believe (if the paradox may be permitted), when more or less of
doubt exists in the mind; for where there is no existence of doubt,
there is no room for the exercise of faith, which ceases when the mina!
is satisfied with its evidence, when opiniongives place to actual know­
ledge. If, for example, men could see God, allfaith in his existence
would be destroyed, for they would not then believe in, but know
him; and though it would be difficult for even an angel from heaven
to say any tiling, about which subtile spirits could not find occasion
to dispute, it is nevertheless presumed, that none who saw, touched,
and talked with such an angelic messenger, would say they believed
they did those three things, namely, saw, touched, and talked with
an angel,, but simply declare their knowledge of the fact.
From the above reasoning, the legitimate conclusion is, that the
religion of a nation, whether that nation be civilized,or barbaric, is
not the reason of such nation; for, as if by reason we understand
thejust arid true ideas ofmen, which can.only be determined asjust
or true, because they have facts, or absolute knowledge for their
ground work, it follows, that the feelings of wonder, ever excited
by that with which we are not familiar, is the support, the everlast­
ing basis of all religion, which never can properly be called rational,
because there is no standard by which a sentiment, with regard to
the unknown, can be measured—no plummet and Une. by which wf
Digitized by Google
,yr. ... / V . .
can sound the dt pths of human imaginings ; and because it is inevi­
table, that to be familiar with, or to know a thing, is to destroy that
sentiment which arises in the mind in consequence of our ignorant*
of it; nor is it possible to wonder at that with which we are, in the
full sense of the term, familiar; and herein lies the error of Kant
and other philosophers, who liave made the singular blunder o f
supposing that religion, though a child of reason, could ever be a
reasonable thing—erroneously conceiving, that as, the progress of
reason always included the idea ot a modification and a progression
in religious sentiment, therefore, the belief, or the faith, to which
such civilization gave birth must be rational; whereas, a due con*
-j «¿deration of the subject will lead to the conclusion, that a ereature
- capable of reasoning perfectly upon all existeiyc^^^áWiééá^ílto
* bBbefovmg,; for such acfeature would knowfhtf
tions, and secret springs, of all things, and in Ms bré&fef
would cease to exist* .Kant, in his Moral Interpretdfekfisrthe
.. Scripture, speaks Qf“ a,$epsewhich accords with tfae iítñiVél^fi^ind
practical laws of a,vpprp rational religion," Nbw, to^¿péA^f a
rational religions to jsp^ak of rational imaginings, *WftdK,°ifVe
admit, we are not OP? step from a rational abstirdlty f
be eloser to the absurd than to call that rational Wbifeb^dwA&its
existence to the very absence of materials whereóttMátffébóoning
•: must be bated,—for man can. reason without facta, oF&s&uhed
facts ; but, in point of reality, it is not reasoning but tfriogMngy
which is the very source and spring óf religión! 'Whenthe'M&ptScan
king, who, according to Gemelli Carreri, on the consecration of a
■ temple, caused six thousand four hundred and eight men to be sa-
• crificed in four days—he, doubtless, imagined such a sacrifice would
v be acceptible to the gods, and, though he might, had he been called
•:.*-upon to do so, have given reasons why it was good so to act,
-. ^nevertheless, the first assumption upon which all his subsequent
o ^reasonings were built was purely imaginary. He believed in the
r 'gods of his nation, and passed off his belief as positive knowledge,—
. for, as no man can by possibility knotv that a God or Gods exist,
. -• there being no science of God, such faiths, beliefs, or imaginings,
.‘\:.n£»n never rise to the dignity of knowledge—however they may
dress themselves, in the borrowed robes of certainty. :
vlt The fear expressed by many timid, though well-intentioned
sa Mpiinds, lest, in destroying the Christian system of religion, a stab
•t-ílWtttó be given to morality, is a vain fear,—for were Christianity
•wept away to-morrow, the religious principle wotlldnot—nfeduWnot
Digitized by Google
.teipg etei™1
*and indestructibU, at for m human
<WWfM 8P itfl ;îh1ifeétruôtAle'.<l',«lt'*U-
Ri
* w
i. o). “T
O
e(f9qf}c^9^h|S|vi|^ imà iuro&n K^i^^ôCPtriê1 who
jdta#djgh ^ pd ^ p ullj down-^wliat jS^pfoAi,ïfe!0byTrtuïfàfà éàfeifgy
'Idcaftfjft,fj^pyi^by hpman^energy ;x
^^rf^fi^n^repoTO^iwn its Deliè^fceff^tiW^^tt Mifef <re*s
huftoft |tnA ^W 8 4°^P tte virtue.u LeiiihkrtiifcWj àll^nkambeivdmt
irift^tt$K>kp)g[the superstitious beliefid à 1èrucifléd1& vlbhty^catted
sud disturbing that blind côufidehdë1cfcitëd feifchythat
^^^SPT ^ toelf ^ r the Christian world for mors tbatieighteen
*-rtMWfeqdSW™» wp do not shake or weaken the propsPfmcWality,
o)hui strengthen *nd consolidate them. The old beUef in Christ i»a
-/'¿BO^pt^gQ^r scouted by all1who have caught aglihapsejofthe
n -prier-of ideas, and the glorious resffltsthtft will ;arrive out*of
realization by society ; anc(, if itlte'thought, that for the
haB^Wn^ii^i of order and themaintenance oftbêlkw,$ft&gio* mwi*
* Jta it, at all events, he a re!igibhhiakiIíg,sbttie pretenriOns
«.Wt*;co g en cy , usefulness, and adaptabflhÿ^td'thë fiipMt of thetimes
riJtiend jt^a,19arch of science ; but, while sd touch iacoUceded by «8 to
n. jthftgfafr* ofinen, we are not willing to garant so itiUcbto tfeeirnftson,
\ i~for an appeal from human institution to hfttfiata'UMjure,from¿the
daoUmations of theologians to the arguments ôfiact», would decide
Ofainst the long held, but most absurd' opinion, ttmt men, to? be
governed, must be deceived,' and that it fa eaàiétfto ptesferve order,
^oate^tmeni;and morality, by fraud and fajbèhodd^thèfhby theprac-
ticcqf truth madjustice. Religion, We*afi ought to bevmade
l >;jthas^ondrwolrk p( all education—its lës&MÜ ¿hOüM*be interwoven
* { whole tissue of instruction, and its principles should regu-
i..>/7la^ the pntire system of discipline in our national schools. Now,
itself cannot be taught ; for who shall teach to another the
*>füvOgU?yindefinite sentiments which arise out of his own relations
Universe ; nor can religious sentiments be systematized
^ iWitbpOtbeing at the same time corrupted, and the only use of a
religion is, to perpetuate error and delusion systematically,
^£;nuu<|sr oqver of which, the vilest among men strengthen their au­
thority, increase their wealth, and raise up barriers to the progress
&sac*tfd8l%p{JQple in intelligence, virtue, and happiness,
date a WW*!** said about the necessity of filling the minds of the many
yiiaÜWftidl®mns and superstitious terrors, by those who value them as
toe l^ W iof cheap police, deterring from the commission of crime.
Digitized by Google
174
Such writers seem hardly sensible of the superipr efficacy of hig^
moral teaching in repressing crime and inducing to,virtue. To do
right, because we love the right, and feel its value, is far betterthan
to do right because we dare not do the wrong. The results in such
a case are the, same, but the dispositions, or states of mind, are die
very antipodes of eaoh other; and, if the belief in a terrible retribu­
tion tended to make man happy and virtuous, how happens it that
the contrary holds ? and that where systems of religion are re«-
qeivetl without inquiry or examination, and all difficulties vanish
before the dixit of the theologian, the people are invariably
Stupid, brutal, cruel, and unjust ? whereas, many nations have ex­
isted, even though low in the moral scale, without any national
faiths, and found ample protection in the laws and powers of the
civil magistrate.
Herein we differ with De Wett, Kant, Strauss, andthe Rationalists
of Germany,—for they, not content with labouring to reduce to &
reasonable standard the religious opinions of pen which have incor­
porated themselves in human societies, but they most absurdly aim
at rationalizing the religious sentiment—desiring to bring it within
the grasp ot reason, when, in truth, all know that religion is religion
became it is not sciences To try the reasonableness of a religious
theory is useful; but any attempt to shew that the faith which grows
out of ignorance, and the science which springs from actual expe­
rience of things, are identical—is misplaced labour—toiling to no
purpose, save a mischievous purpose. To test the utility and con­
sistency of the Bible, Vedan, Koran, or any other holy work, is to
assist the cause of human progression, by opening the eyes of the
intellectually blind to their true value; but any attempt to make it
appear that one book is more holy than another—one history more
sacred than another—is mere fraud—a species of moral swindling
only too prevalent in the world. Were the Bible and all other re­
ligious boqks destroyed to-morrow, religious systems might share in
their destruction; but religion itself could not—for religious feeling
has neither its source nor support in.books, but in the human heart;
religious feelings, we again repeat, are not necessarily rational; they
may or may not be so, for there is no standard or measure by which '
their reasonableness can be determined; as the mind of man, never
satisfied with the knowledge it hath, ever restless, impatient, and
craving for more, stretcheth itself out into the pathless regions of
speculation. Now, a speculation being a speculation, and not a
legitimate resvflt of logical deduction, it is not added to our treasure
Digitized by Google
175
of truth, but goes to swell the confused heap of imaginings Reli­
gious sentiments as religious sentiments—speculations as specula­
tions—are harmless ; and it is only when men, backed by autho­
rity, and swollen by pride, insistupon their peculiar sentiments and
imaginings being recognised as eternal truths, that they are perni­
cious and inimical to the happiness of man ; but the religion which
lays claim to reasonableness,ihust not shrink from rationalinquiry ;
the book which contains the principles of such a systematized faith,
should be open to all comers, and contain within itself, the proofs
that will effectually overcome and destroy all opposition ; the marks
of its divinity should be plain and palpable, and, like those said to
have appeared upon the body of Christ after his descent from the
cross, carry with them their own evidence.
Not to dwell upon the admission of Strauss (Life of Jesus, 1st
sec. p. 164) that “ a Gallilean, of whom the genealogy was un­
known, having acquired the renown of Messiah, it is easy to con­
ceive that the legend of his descent from David,himself descended
from Abraham, was developed under various forms, and that after*
wards these legends served in the manufacture of such genealogies;
the which not being founded upon authentic pieces, necessarily led
to those divergences and contradictions into which Matthew and
Luke have fallen not, we say, to dwell upon the important fact;
that Matthew and Luke diverge from, and flatly contradict, each
otherin their sacred accounts of the genealogy ofJesus, the account
of Abraham, "whose seed shall possess the gate ofhis enemies,’’car*
ries upon the face ofit absurdity or falsehood ; and it is vain that
we are told that it is all true—though we cannot perceive its truth;
—nay.though to us it appears false,for ourbeing told does not prove
it to us. When we read in Genesis, that u the Lord has fast closed
up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of-Sarah)
Abraham’s wife,” to us it appears just as absurd as though thé
Lord had placed a padlock on their months, because of some other
old woman ; telling men that such solemn nonsense was written by
the finger of God, makes it no less nonsense ; as well might Chris*
tians believe all the absurdities crowded into the pages of the Ko*
ran, because a fool, or an impostor, tells us it was written, as Alla
commanded, by his Prophet Mahomet, with a feather plucked from
the wing of the Angel Gabriel, As well remarked by Strauss;
(Life of Jesus Intro, p. 68) “ The faithful Mussulman believes that
all.truth is contained in the Koran, and sees only fables in the
major part of the Bible ; the Jew acknowledges not a divine history
Digitized by Google
17*
m ilía 0 l| ,tWt^Q9€^t; hi
who ara ftaymablèw
their assertions contradict each other; hut the which of them' in
particular is right ? Ea¿h religions sécfcláims for it9elfthe truth;
the prehensions ap equpL^ Who, t^en, will decide the (origin of
each retigigp ?? |fty£aeb^tti Not
only tiie Christian religion lays cíaim to diviMty1&o%^C&st the
Sonof God, bat the Jewish religipn through Moses, and also Mo­
hammedanism puts in its claim as being founded- by it•btophht
immediately inspired by (tod; nor did the Greeks ^ttribute the in­
stitution of their worship to any but the Gods." So that, the tales
told about Noah and Abraham are no more nace^sa^yftp^e than
those we hear about Mahomet; and unless we are prepared to oast
aside both reason and common sense,it is impossible to believe that
such a person as Abraham ever existed. 1 ’
The state of our paper wafns us to conclude our present Letter,
and at the same time inform our readers that this work wflf
completed m nine moré numbers—making (with the Supplement^
thirty-one; the next will conclude that part of our subject toaohipg)
the real character of Abraham, and the remaining Letters will jbe
occupied with a consideration (perhaps the meat interesting of
all to the general reader) whetherthe various histories of pbrist, or
the times in which be is said to have existed, as well civil as eccle­
siastical, Christian or Pagan, will warrant our beliefthat aman
called Christ performed any of the acts attributed to lmn by the
Evangelists, or whetherthe Evangelical histories are not purely fic­
tional, as asserted by ns* W e have disproved Ait emstmwe as a G<rf,
—it now remain* to dieprave hi* etrifieme a*a human being, which
we have pledged ourselves to do. That pledge shall be redeemed,
or we will candidly acknowledge that we have commenced »task
beyond our power to accomplish. The origin oí the Christian re­
ligion, none of our careful readers can now mistake; the beliefin
a man-god, bora of a virgin, must vanish before the evidence al­
ready adduced,—while the remaining portion, of our work will,if
we mistake not—shiver to atoms the whole fabric of the Christie»
fiction, and demonstrate that the-belief in Christ isjust aa ^hsprd
asá beliefin Jupkcr, andthatame^orgodof tiiat uamenon^orw
rode on an ass into the streets of Jerusalem, than did B^chpfi rid» <
on an fcseinto the etreeteof Greece. ;.
Loodou : H. Hetherinffton ; A. Heywood, Manchester; mod all Booksellers^
J. Tay1er, Printer, 2S, SmmllbroolcStreet, Btanmgham. ■
Digitized by Google
THE
57 <
E ^ f £ I K £ f l | E « T w
* CXT'
Tijr^ir. g
r'* c
"fs
TO
1
'j ‘ri'fi
n and) 1
o /io.Vw 1*4 -„^.0 -,f,
.rflrn) vr '“ !» $ ,ti
io flebo 6d) '!>' L .'w r -
JcK ^
sri) l&i
*<-Motl* U«jb 1 7 -, . ,, - . ..
ifl^ i^ V f^ lS W r^ V ID E N C E , IN A StelrtES OT-DEtTEtei1^
l!?*Z8i$4’4 .GERMAN JEW, ' ;J “ ‘1
'iiSiifeSiBfr W (JftHttTlAN®' OF AIA OftNQKU^ATlBNS. . , t , #
*g£0 ot e- . \- . %. . . . . .r . ‘ *
, . . . . . . , ■ . •■ . - r r *
*rif y.
»sdHFVA*]»
Letter 22. w’eekly • One Pens r . :
rW im the Holy One of fsrael. 'Before me there was no
Godiormetf,1neither dhifi thefe be attenta*. >
'/, even /, am the Lord,and beside«.
niithMrie^aEanoor^—Jbaiah XLILL 3*10, XI. a '
■ *
. — . , . . -
e^ yòu rèceSre |he Bibieaa your guide, you cannot believe that
Abraham ever hid a literal existence, as the Scriptures express]/,
cféfelure (Gal. chap. 4, •¥. 24) that<(èie things written concerning^
^rSkakh are an altyaftf'^&o, admitting that (2 Tim. chap. 3X,
V. ì6 y <cAll icriptu?^I s b y inspiratici of God, and is profit,
table fot doctrine,: reproof, for oorrectión*far instruction in,t
ri^tóoùsnes&,<Tyofa.^cannotescape fronti die eo&Kdfurion, that what
is wtitffeff in ¿toytìiAbratnun isomero allegory and not a,
triré1t ó s trtBdittoii»hooked by the irrite*» of t^e Sapred
VolliATf.'Wlfo declarèe:(Hbdea,«;hap. 12; v. 1$)« I have cdsojppkerv
l^'iHe^rophehf and TfièéhevSulHpUed msiont^aHd uted similitudes,.^
tìié 'nìirdstry oftheprb/fkèts]n it ¿bust be cleartherefore, that tor take /
“^iéiónf’ and * matters of feet, is contwy. to,
thè4teaching of Script^ 'foSfcif;' ;The things written concerning
Abraham beShg^art' d ^ d ^ ’^Ghriat could not have descended ,
frdtn a man, or prophet, <&n^AbVatam,+-*4branallegorical history .
is '¿bfc arMstc^y óf things bf ^fttadnadfe they 'were, but “ & though •;
tM^ iheré:^ antf&iir tòr BèripttWtrt vièwJbfthe,matterdeint^nstratp^t
tl&t^li6xlfl»i^I^JesraB:Cfhfri^fc everliterally cru-
cified^or ever literally rose frótiathe T
dead^H)r eve^rin short^(>
^ ’:
‘'*t-J
*
Digitized by >ogIe
178
literally did any one thing- related of, him,—-for either de­
scended from Abraham, or Scripture Is false ; anj) if tiff
of Abraham’s existence be an* hypothesis in the air, all fhaf is writ­
ten about Christ must be equally airy and unsubstantial, as we read,
(Gal. chap. 3, v. 29) “ And if ye be Christ's, then are ye Abraham s
seedy drA heirs according to the, p r o m is e Whether you strictly
adhere to the literal interpretation pf Abraham's history and insist
that it does not speak of things that were not “ as though they were,”
or whether, driven from that ground by the force of reasyn,,aided
by the sharp and powerful weapons of Scripture texts, you,are yet
willing to save yourselves (for dying men catch at straws) by adnyat-
ting that the things written about Abraham are only “ similitudes,'*
seemingly a history, but really a fable—still must the belief in
Christ be abandoned, as the literal interpretation would be in direct
opposition to the plainest Scriptural teaching; while acknowledging
that Abraham's history is mere romance, at once reduces the Sacred
Volume to a book of fables, allegories, metaphors—a mystery to
the vulgar, enclosing a hidden and deeper meaning than they at;
taeh to them—stamping moreover as imbeciles, or something worse,
those holy men who preach the gospel as literally true. The rash
theologians who declare that what is written in Genesis about
Abraham is partly literal, partly allegorical—or, iu plain language,
partly true and partly false, are the men who most effectually
undermine the Christian religion; for by making the important
admission, that some things could not have taken place as related
in the Bible, they shake all confidence in such a divine medley,
and set men thinking how much of it is literal? how much ot it is
allegory? how much of it is true? how much of it is false?—so that
the sacredness of the volume is destroyed, and that “given by in­
spiration of God" is reduced to a mere book of riddles, which each
is at liberty to guess the meaning of, without any other than the dim
light of reason, or any other aids than those afforded by a weak and
falliblejudgment—while a plain literal interpretation of the Holy
Book, so simple—so easy—so irrefutable—so magical as it ought to
be in its effects, when given by those appointed to “go teach all
nations,” has this fearful consequence involved in it, that such a
teaching flatly contradicts those parts of Scripture which cannot be
mistaken. Nor will faith here step in and save us ; no, not even
that faith which Catholic divines tell us “ serves as a remedy for
our natural defects, and supplies the place of knowledge—teaches us
Digitized by Google
179
to believe without doubting doctrines which we cannot comprehend,
or the testimony of God who has taught them for faith, however
strong or holy, cannot reconcile contradictions once perceived as
contradictions; a relation, however absurd, may be, through the
efficacy of faith, implicitly believed ; but that which is known to be
its opposite cannot also be believed, as for example, when the faith­
ful Christian searches the Scriptures, and finds there related that
Jesus is the son of Abraham, he cannot, however armed in faith,
believe that Abraham, hie father, had no real existence, even though
the same Scriptures declare that " the things written concerning
Abraham were an allegory? that is, according to lexicographers, " a
figurative discourse in which something is intended that is not
coiitained in the words literally taken." How could that faith which
"supplies the place of knowledge, and teaches us to believe without
doubting doctrines which we cannot comprehend/' reconcile us to
the conflicting and impossible statements of the Scripture, which
declares that our Lord Jesus Christ was crucified and Rilled at three
different places,—at Calvary, according to Luke, (chap. 23. v. 33)
" And when they were come to the place which is called Calvary, there
they crucifiedhimyand the malefhctors9one on the right handy and the
other on the left? At Galatia, according to (Gal. chap. 3, v. 1)
“ O foolish GalatianSy who hath bewitched ypu, that ye should not obey
the truthy before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set forth7
crucified amongyou At Sodom in Egypt, as written in (Rev.
chap. J1, v. 8) " And their dead bodies shall be in the streets of the
great city, which spiritually is called Sodom, and Egypt, where alsoour
Lord was crucified.” Here is a 6trange confusion, if not contra­
diction of texts, which no faith can clear up or reconcile, though it
may enable those who possess it to skip over such vain difficulties,
or pass them by as unworthy of notice; but surely, the mere literal
expounder of the Bible is here foiled by his own weapons—for not
only is it contrary to reason and all that we call fact, that a reed
person should exist from an ideal one, but it is, if any thing can be,
cootray to common seuse, for an individual, man, prophet, or God,
to be killedandcrucifiedthree times over at three differentplaces. The
trinity of persons in the Godhead it is difficult to understand ; but *
a trinity of killings and crucifixions seems beyond the reach even of
those "who believe without doubting doctrines which they cannot
comprehend, or the testimony of God who has taught t h e m b u t
the allegorical explication will enable not only "men of little faith/'
Digitized by Google
but even Infidels, who ate E&tifcfièd with iiou^ht Ihodb
having one grain of faith hi holy lègeiidand religionstskfc, togetér
right understanding of thè Scrfptdre. Storely, the Christians>whò
believe literally what is abòvié quoted fròlli the Scripture* WithJfre*-
gard to the crucifixion, bring shame ùpon h\u»éii T^asottj (Hebi
chap. 6, v. 6) “ Seeing they crucify ió Ìhemsehiés the'Sod òf Odd
afresh, andput him to an open filante?’ The ScriptUi^lftwally te&nb
with texts, about the meanihg ofwhichthere càn ItenotW&opinions;
but the limits we have prescribed for ourselves, iòrbÌdfhafcWèunnò^
cessarily multiply them ; and though some may urge, that Scriptural
texts thus plucked out one by one, * serve only fOr’spring*»! and
snares/’ that a German Jew, like the Devil, “ may use Soriptaltt
for his purpose,” with other hard things—no man whò htó' ftwtì
faith in the Scripture will do this ; nor can those whò produce fhéit
cause, and bring forth their strong reasons from the Sacted Volume*
consistently deny the same right to others, and text for text is un*
questionably fair and honorable warfare. Now, we challenge all
the theologians of Europe to overthrow us in textual cotobat/OT
shew from the Bible, that Abraham was a real personage l the fact
is, that “ through infirmity of the flesh, (human reason), ¿fe gospd
was preached unto us at first (that is, during the infancy of civiliza­
tion) as really and literally true; hut, when the flesh (human reason)
shall be cured of its infirmity, and be made soundf Scripture will be
interpreted more in harmony with truth, than any interpretation
could have been in former times,—its riddles may now be guessed
without danger, metaphors explained—its similitudes and strange
mysteries made intelligible—its literal contradictions and absurdities
reconciled and made reasonable—and a rational interpretation
given of its mystical sense, and plain nonsense. ' '
The German theologians, by their boldness, immense research,
and critical acumen, have fairly carried away the Scriptures frond
the orthodox Christian theologians ; to which Course they Were
pioneered by the great writers of the Deistical school, the Bolings
brokes, Tolands, Voltaires, and others^-who, liy shaking the faith
òf millions in the literal reading of the New Testament-—and, like
Julian Celsus and Pòrphery, befote t&iémRejecting proe fobie the
shameful andtrulydisgusting recitals containedin the Holy History,
made the path straight for the (perhaps iti a certain sense) more
elevated conceptions of thepresent German school ; bo that Strauss
fails in due regard, for the parent which begat him, when he stig­
180
Digitized by Google
181
matizes m u dry** “ the revolutionary attempts of Deisticai criticism
directed against Biblical documents,” as it is certain, but for so
root, no such leaf would have been put forth in our time, as
^Thfe Lifeof Jeans.” And eurely when Chubb had the hardihood
to declare that the Jewish religion, if a revelation from God, dis­
graced the-moral character of the Divinity, by attributing to him a
declared partiality for the Jewish nation,and above all, the sangui­
nary slaughter of the Canaanites! his efforts were not dry orsterile;
when Bdingbroke, Toland, Morgan, and others, declared the Bible
a mere eolleetion of apocryphal books, filled with fables—denied
that Biblical recitals reflected a superioror divine light—denounced
thelaw of Moses as a miserable system of superstition, blindness,
and servility—the Jewish priests as impostors—and the prophets
as the great workers of desolation and intestine wars in the two
kingdoms of Judah and Israel; though they may be called dry
revolutionary attempts of Deism, they nevertheless have been fruitful
lu great results; and though it may be true, as Strauss remarks—
that Woolston has enlarged with much self-complacency upon the
absurdity of the literal sense being applied to the miracles, and a
frivolous tone pervades the whole, it would be vain to deny that his
works have had an immense, and admirable influence.
The celebrated De Wette, a far greater favourite with Strauss
than any of the foregoing, (probably because, like him, he declared
against the natural explication, and for the mythical explication of
the Old Testament,) insists that it is inconsistent and arbitrary to
attribute to poetry or Action only the outside, or envelope of events
related in the Old Testament, and desire to conserve the facts as
historic. He takes as example, the alliance of God with Abraham,
in which, the authors of the naturalinterpretation abandon the facts
as notfacts under theirpresent form ; but yet, pretend to conserve
for their recital a foundation purely historic. According to these
naturalinterpreters, there was no realcommunication between God
and Abraham; but in the mind of that patriarch was excited, per­
haps during a vision, or perhaps during his wakefnl state, certain
thoughts which, conformably to the genius of the ancient world, he
referred to God. So, according to these natural explainers, Abra­
ham had a vision, and thought he saw God, and made alliance
with him, afterwards relating his dreams as a something that really
took platie; or he was wide awake, and communing with himself,
thought he fell on his face—talked with God—was told that he
should circumcise the flesh of his foreskin, that it might be a
Digitized by Google
covenant between him &nd tli9Ljrdy&c. To tlwacmtaral inter­
preters of .the mysteries ^contulhed in. the Scripture», De Welt
proposes «thisquestion; “ Howkuow you that Abraham*had suoh
thoughts ?” whkvh to usappearsa very rational kindof'question
which,fifty, will find it difficult-to-answer;satisfactorilyfor.we ape
sure,with the Aportleffrutl, (Epistle to the Corinthians,chap;2, v.tf)
thejudgmentof God,is according to truth, against them which
cpmipitauch thingsfor, (IstJPpistle to the Romans,chap. l,v. 22)
“ prpfessing themselves to be wise, they became fools*” *How for
from folly—how for .from naturalism must those daterprefcevs of
Scripture be, who, in the foce of its plainestdeclaration» tothe con­
trary, will obstinately insist that Abraham was a real personage.
Truly these are the theologians and critics who bring theScriptures
into cpntempf—philosophers who, like Eichhorn, take away from
Biblical history its divine character, and attributed the supernatural
reflex which is spread over it, not to deception or fraud, but to the
natural result of the peculiar manner in which the light of antiquity
made itself manifest; .who strive to make it appear that the voca­
tion of Moses was not a reaL vocation—that the account in Exodus
chap. 3, v. 2,3, and 4, “ And the angel of the Lord appeared unto
him in a flame of Are, out of the midst of a bush: and he looked*
and, behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not con­
sumed. And Moses said, l will now turn aside, and see this great
sight, why the bush is not burnt. And when the Lord saw that he
turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the
hush* and said, Moses, Moses. And: he said, Here am 1”—is, when
literally received, most absurd and incongruous;' who endeavours
to explain, that Moses imagined he saw the angel of the Lord ap-*
pear in a flame—that he imagined he heard God call out of the
bush “ Moses, Moses,” which call was, in fact, nothing more than
the thought long conceived by the patriot of delivering his people—
a thought which, renewing itselfin a dream with new strength and
vivacity, was mistaken by him for divine inspiration. The •smoke
and the flam? upon Mount Sinai, or as written in Exodus, chap.
24, y. 17, “ The ^ight of the glory of the Lord, which was like the
devouring fire ou the top of the mount in the eyes of the children
of Israel,” Eichhorn explains ps a fore lighted by Moses upon the
mountain in order to assist the imaginations ofthe Israelites; and a
violent stonp happening to co-operate with it, the luminous appear­
ance of his face was a consequence either of his great heat or his
posilkyi with .regard to the “ devouring flre,’; which Moses himself
Digitized by Google
188
not understanding the cause of, for (Exod. chap. 84, V. 22) “ whën
he came down- from the inounty Moses wist not that the skin of his
face shone while be talked whh kbn” though equally with the pent
pie,—there was in the circumstance something divine. Thésame
author has given other explanations equally ingenious and equafliy
unsatisfactory of the histories of Noah hnÔ Abràhatn. j ' '
hi the 21st chaptter of Genesis, v. 2 arid 3, it is written that
“ Sarah conceived and bare Abrahhm a son in his old age, at -the
set timC of which God had spoken to him. And Abraham called
the name of the son who was born unto him, whomSarah barb to
him, Isaac.” Then the text góes on to say that “ Abrahamcir­
cumcised his son Isaac, being eight days old, as God had com­
manded him;” but before the birth of Isaac, the history states
(Gen. chap. Id, v. 2, 3, 4) that “'Stand said unto Abram, Behold
now, the Lord hath restrained me from bearing : I pray thee, go in
unto my maid ; it may be that I may obtain children by hen And
Abram hearkened to the voice of Sami. And Sar&i Abram’s wife
took Hagar her maid the Egyptian, after Abram had dwelt ten
years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband Abram
to be his wife. And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived,”&e.
Here we have a precise account in Genesis of the conception of
Hagar, the bondmaid, who is afterwards informed by an angel of
tbe Lord that she is with child, and “ shall bear a son, and shall
call his name Ishmael also, the conception of Sarah, the free
woman, and the birth of Isaac ; but, what must be the astonish­
ment of a literal interpreter of Scripture, who believes the. story óf
Abraham to be something more than an allegory, when he turns to
the 4th chapter, 22, 28, and 24th verses of Galatians, and,sees the
following? “ For it is written, that Abraham had two sons, the one
by a bondmaid, and the other by a freewoman. But ho who was
of the bondwoman was horn after the flesh ; but he of the freewo*
man was by promise. Which things we an allegory” Whát
evidence can be more conclusive against the supposition, that the
history of Abraham is matter* ot fact ?—yes, the weight of these
Scriptural texts will bear down and crush die puny sophism of
theologians—for the things related of Abraham are proved to be
allegorical by texts and arguments, having all the force and com«
pletenesâ of a moral demonstration. lie must be a knave, or an ¿
idiot, who will, after this, declare with Saint Matthew, “ Jesus
Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham,” in spite of common
sense, reason, and Scripture ; and if Jesus Christ was not the son of
Digitized by Google
of Abraham is an aUegory—j^ ^ is history is a something related
which is not meant—that the author/ or authors, attached to it
one sense,JPfy* _ahspdUv, and, in
many h ^ jo # À ffu Ç xfyS pfyai& W %
we a cannot judge from appearance, if we wouldjuq^n|hteous
judgmoft” should dq yell po act uppp fyeradvice of Origines,
and, if possible, bury ourselves in the true meaning of0?e>]$At&S.
In taking leaver therefore, of Àbied^an^ ayÿ pççpqg to a review
of the various arguments that have been urged in favor of the
existence as a human being of-Jesus Christ, wkh islL’uon&Jence in
our ability to shew by reference to ecclesiastics of acknowledged
authority in the Christian Church, as well as Pagan ^ d Jewish
historians, who have written,orwere said to hayewi&ten,corroW
rotary cfthe prevailing nqti*>p,Jtbata God, or at all, eypnjç, £ jppi
called Christ, was born in Judea eighteen hundred yearn ago ; we
we will shew by these very favorable, and often certainly partial
authorities themselves, that the books of the New Testameht are
hooks containing absurdity add falsehood of a moatpermemo« and
demoralising characterÎ—■thatwhatis there writtenaboutthe doing*
of a Jesus—is a fofgery, and an insult to the common sense,jof
mankind! ' ■
- The reader will not now fail to conclude* that tb? existence of
Jesus Christ, so far frotn being proved by Scripture, is disproved
by it. Upon this peint, if oh no other, the Steered Writings are
perfectly intelligible—for they expressly declare, that Christ was
crucified and killed three times over, at- three different times und
places, which it is physically1and morally impossible any bodily
Christ could have been. Nay, it is beyondaU human conception,*
that the Son of God could have died at'threeplace* ai one Urne, or
ai different time*; killing any thing three time*, over was never
heard of any where but in Scripture: eo that, it is evident the ex­
pressions are figurative. Our critique will, it is hoped, give the
coup, degrace to this moral absurdity—and by opening the eyes.of
the people, enable them to see the depths of theirsuperstitiouafoily/j
—for of all moral poisons the dregs of superstition are the wgasA •
-------:-------—— — —;---------------------u— Ln-s
London: H. Hetherington ; A. Heywood, Manchenter; and attBookaettewivi i
cc - - -'• J..Tijrlçr, ÿrûtfçr, 99, Smallhrook Street, Birmingham. ^ ^
Digitized by Google i
THE
EnSTENGE OF CHRIST
( t , . 48 A HUMAN BEING, •
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
" PROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALB DENOMINATIONS.
L e tter 23. w eekly . O ne P enny.
u I a» the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
Godformed, neithershall there be after me. /, even/, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3,10,11.
Christians, —--------
A glance at the early history of the Church of Christ will ma­
terially assist us in the very important investigation we have under­
taken ; and, though we shall not confine ourselres exclusively to
Ecclesiastical historians, it is principally from them evidence will be
adduced in disproofof the existence of Jesus as a human being.
By Such a course,malice itselfwill be disarmed; and, whatever may
be thought of our proofs and reasonings, none will dare accuse us
of partiality or unfairness. The weaponswrested from opponents in
a warfare ofthis nature, and used against themselves—even ifthose
weapons be not remarkable for keenness of edge, or excellence of
temper—-always do great execution. Acting upon,this principle,
sceptical authorities will be but little referred to, while special
reference will be made to those who are acknowledged champions
of the faith in Jesus—whether as God, inspired prophet, pr human
being. .
Among these Doctor Mosheim claims the first rank, both on
account of his shining talents, and undoubted orthodoxy. His
great work on Ecclesiastical History, displays immense erudition
and research; nor can it be doubted that it has bad a prodigious
influence in propping up the (now crumbling into dust) Reformed
Church. He had, moreover, no relish for Infidels, as his writings
Digitized by Google
186
abundantly testify. r Papistry and
ai)dwhateveremanatedfromWeset.. . .. ...^ ^
bitter. At the very outset of his book, he denounces the Sceptics
as “ a set of miserable and unthinking creatures, who treat with
negligence—nay, sometimes with contempt—the religion of Jesus,
not considering that they are indebted to it for all the good things
which they so ungratefully enjoy.” -Bishop Warburton,pronounced
his work the only one deserving the name of an Ecclesiastical
History; and Doctor Maclaine, announces it as a history,of the
Christian Church, composed with judgment, taste, and candour—
drawn with uncommon discernment and industry from the best
sources, enriched with much useful learning, and several important
discourses connected with the history of arts, philosophy, and civil
government. One who had so profound a contempt for Sceptics,
so much learning, and so much love for the Church, will have
immense weight with Christians, whether his teachings tend to
support or overthrow the vulgar belief in the existence of a man
called Jesus of Nazareth.
The perusal of the first twenty or thirty pages of his work is
sufficient to prove how unstable were all human opinions and feel­
ings when Jesus is said to have appeared—how confused, false, and
therefore little to be relied on, were all documents dignified by the
name of historic, which were written at, or subsequent to, that
period. In those days, if the priests were not more learned, the
people were far more ignorant and fanatical than in our own times,
and nothing was more easy than for the scribes and men in au­
thority to palm upon the credulity of the multitude their own
audacious forgeries as authentic and holy documents. Daring and
rebellious spirits fwho protested against such enormities were
branded as seditious and impious—their conduct as immoral, arro­
gant, and blasphemous—and, upon all occasions, they were held tip
to public execration as Atheistical disturbers of public tranquility.
The power of the priests was then enormous; and no priesthood
has ever been known to part with ¡power except when forced to
do so. It was to be expected, therefore, that the histories they wrote,
or hired others to write, would contain just as much of truth as
suited,their purposes, which, we presume, might all have been
sq^pezed into a few pages—and yet, some would have us rely with
perfect confidence upon such documents, even wlien they contradict
the evidence of our senses. The treatment received by the first
Christians, shews clearlj’what must have been the fanaticism of the
Digitized by Google
187
^ ha® been justly observed, i$ the true measure of
{>rie^ 7 power. They were denounced by the priests, aided by
he respectables in society, as reckless innovators, shameless Evo­
lutionists, and brazen-faced Atheists, who, under cover of a new
ordejr of things, aimed at the destruction of property, and the disor­
ganization of society. The feeling against the early Christians was
not confined to the Jewish people, but was spread far and^wide—
wherever, in short, the yoice of authority could make itselfheard.
Tacitus, the Roman historian, renowned for his eloquence ai^d
learning—a man, we should suppose, little influenced by the vulgar
uproar of knavery and fanaticism, possessing, as he did, so large and
comprehensivea mind,nevertheless,“kindled in the common blaze/'
and bitterly reproached the followers of “ one Jesus, or Christ/' as
haters ofmankind /—styles their religion, a destructive superstition !
using otherveryharshandabusive epithets;while Suetonius,another
famous historical writer, was no- less severe. As observed in a
note to Mosheim—“ The odious epithets which Tacitus applies to
the Christians and their religion, as likewise the language of Sue­
tonius, who calls Christianity a poisonous or malignant supersttiion /
(maleficia superstitio), are founded upon the same reasons. A sect,
which pot only could not endure, but labored to abolish the religious
systems of the Romans, and also those of all the other,nations of
the earth, appeared to the short-sighted and superficial observers of
religious matters as enemies of all mankind, and persons possessed
with a mortal hatred of all the human race." •
It is certain, that the teachings of the early Christians alarmed
the credulous simpletons, who prided themselves on standing firm in
the ancient faith, from a conviction of its divine nature and excel­
lence, and the cunning knaves who stood firm in the ancient faith,
because they had no other resting place—no other source of power,
profit, and emolument. Simpletons are the pasture of knaves, who
always use them for their own selfish purposes; so the latter did
not fail to excite in the former t^e most deadly hatred towards the
new sect. The religion of the early Christians seems to have been,
in all its essential features, the same as Christians now profess;
but, the people ever so “ short-sighted, and such superficial ob­
servers of religious matters," were then taught to denounce the new
.doctrine as a blasphemous innovation upon long established and
holy opinions, while its teachers we^e shunned, or persecuted as
dangerous men, who preached a destructive superstition. Now, all is
phanged, and the people are instructed by the successors of tfi^se
Digitized by Google
m
fcètffr %òtfpinefe,ttì yWérétìféè tifi
only true and holy religion, and, as good ChristiSuiB^wnflt^lObTliii
^ttbm^ted:dbgr^hfe pséfecMV of
'W¿èiirìti^ÌriJìM^; •ftómU&wiridhjàrgrmteboutitechiqtivnf^at
aâftl ^lôfïtiKgtort^ wegathw the interesting tru th ,»
^llikcpfrèrtèd 'bf "Hofebea, tìiatrtrttfe-région >nteaiifothe.ireìàgkm
^ifhtM disf^/^htti'a^angerons bupsrsritionls Ithe*eügieh
'Wtiìcft’tó ^ l feriifonabté.- When Nero hore sway in: Romo, was
agfcink thè kate to cèdi Christianity**!«? m%sour/ihiitthaès
v^i^échaOged wben Constantine the great asstìmed thb pttrfkj Ane
it 'sfa'traeteti lo cali it a déstwotm jupeiiitM sfe^Yarilj*fit->is
Jhshièn decides tifóse things. , < . . f,ffr. ,. « ì r
The' first Christians seem to have been wèll-taieaniDg sincere
enthusiasts; bat thè wary searcher «iter truth WMI be careful to
distinguish betweeb the rant of enthnSiasm arid the sober tru th s#
history. Tbereare few rdi^ous enthusiastswho do not \rilfully
and wantonly deceive othm , while they unconsciously deéèive
themselves, ThemajrimuiiLOfMigiouSfóeling fó,perhaps,uJfwajfe
accompanied by thè khiniraum of inorai Ifeeling-^bence,the exprto-
sion of a mòdern political writer, * maximize morals, rimimi»
religion/1 Thè idea oflooking into the writing* of the first Chris­
tians for unmixed truth, however sincere they may haste been» is,
when well considered, mere luaacy-*-the idea of a studious bed-
i&mite~~for the most excédent intention is, at beet, a mort fragile
guarantee against errors of judgment, and thosel faidhscinations of
intellect to which the religiously sincere are peculiarly subject.
Sincere fools are theworst offools, for thehf follyhas neitherweight
nor measure, it calls ho fceason master, etudopeuafbritself an hi«
terminablecareerl ^ ^ ■ - .*
' W e read in hfosbeim, that thè Christian*had neediersacrifice,
nor temples, hot oracles, nor sacerdote! orders; and this was suf-
1fièieot to bring upon them the reprodehes of an ignorant nudtknde,
1whoimaginedthattherecould be noreligionwithout the»/1. “Thus
(conduces Moshehn), they were looked up6n Us a sort of Atheists;
■ and, by the Roman laws, those who were chargeable with Atheism,
were declared the peste of human aaofetyi Their morahty, though
denounced aa Atheistic, seemed to be of à practical charaoteiwfor,
among'the virtues which distingteshed thè rising church in this iti
infauy,that of charity to thè poor and needy, shone in the fitet
' nakf and with die hrightestlostre* The rich supplied the wantsbf
their indigent brethren with such liberality and readiness, that* as
Digitized by Google
e t pfcrjep* aflfhiftgp
m ^ t n l 6Ò m w m £ :',■'<'< ') b .. ^ >
.*
; .,1 :* ,: v<V: Lua 70
*1)
to Tfasbrihai ©tìangèé which
in^he/spirit «òd pnfeticaof'Gbifeti*!»libare, #
anqefirtrikothe most carelessreader,
. tirò», the bulk <rf.Chriatfansseemttd W
id<
daàtiBBBsiitif iPagànkmr*t4hsyare x
U
>
t.ìiw^AwitìhlO^
{empieono* images* nor olurfea; nor sacerdoti ordeiW &%iig>f0ur
days thefy^imagine there ¿an be Ad ttligion without Aftwhp
geririmitate thè firstChristian», anddispense with 8a4jii6ee^teinptea,
oracle^anffsacerdotal orders, are “ looked Upon as a aortiofAthe­
ists"— to which it is hardly necessary to add, that by the Cbrbtbp
law^ snpported:fey Ghrisridncustoms, those chargeable with Atheism
lire " declaredfbe pests of human society.” Nor do we now find
"that the riehsupply the wants of theirrindigetJt brethreln wfth^àach
|ibc«ality andreadiness, as tohave aUlihingefc*» c o m m *. : ’
v.&oine conception of the revSlings,and bitter peineciitionssuffered
lyr tìneseimén who had frith ii* Jeeusvmaybe obtrihedbyAperusal
oftbe foHowing passages from. Mcteheim. * The firtt three or four
agee of thfi Chnrch were stained with1the blood óf martyrs, who
sufferedf&r the name of Jesus* The gredfbess of their number is
<
acknowledged by all who have a completedacquaintance with ancient
history, and have examinedthat matterwith impàrtiaiity. It would
have been snipffismg if, under such a monster sa. Nera, the Chris­
tians had enjoyedthasweets of tranquility and freedom/’ :
The objectjof Nero* i& persecuting theiChtìstiàns, seems to hatfe
beenpurelypeMoaL He lay Underthe imputationtaf Cetfing Rome
in flames, and hedpsifedto lift the Load /of ódituri from bb own
shoulders to those of the Christians, who were hated moteonae-
eotmtof their sedkiouapr&cticeaj thàn.fthefr péocdiiax rehjfious
dogmas and thb with soméìChbw of reason and. justice— for Hbay
w«pe not content to piuctmatheir own rights and cereinoni^ bht
they openly attacked the rsHgunricfthfestate andthe coriraptionfcof
the times;
— so thattheiRjponiB^govecnmentiatherfeaTfedthe political
than the religious tenderai** oiitheir dbcfrine. Acedrding to Mos-
heini; Christ himself wap ficsfe brought before the Jewish high­
priest and Sanhedrim* Jròfbref whoani^he .was accused of having
,Violated the law, and bia9pflua(ne^;the mkjesty o f,God, and from
thence dragged to the tribnnal ofPitóte, the Roman prtotp^where
t hei was changed with sedittoUs e a te rp riM iq a A w ith irtctoen, gjjam #
>faear. a-\/' . ■ ?’ . neri*
Digitized by Google
190
All sfate relijgionp—all systematized uatiqnal creeds, formulae,
and ceremonies—whether called Pagan, Jewish, Mohaqxmedan, or
Hindoo-r-are hateful as they are demoralizing, and have, in all ages,
been supported by priestly{obstructives, qs the most effectual drag-
chain upon the energies of humanity; but, oi all systems of super­
stition, the Christian seems to have been the most systematic.
There Ws been more persecution for conscience sake sin^e Christi­
anity became part and parcel of national law, than during all the
preceding ages recorded in history. The persecution^ suffered by
the Christians under the Roman emperors, were inflicted on ac­
count of their seditious, not their religions, practices ; for, as
Mosheim justly observes* "One of the principle reasons of the
peverity with which the Romans persecuted, the Christians, seems
to have been the abhorrence and contempt with winch the latter
regarded the religion of the empire, which ivas intimately.connected
with the form, and, indeed, with the very essence of its political con­
stitution. For, though the Romans gave an unlimited toleration to
all religions, which had nothing in their tenets dangerous to the
commonwealth, yet they would not permit that of their ancestors,
which was established by the laws of the state, to be turned into
derision, nor the people to be drawn away from their attachment to
it;” to which Mosheim adds, "these were the two things'which
the Christians were charged with, and that justly—though to their
honor.1*
So much is written regarding the state of the times, immediately
after Jesus Christ is said to have lived, with a view to shew the
reader that the great mass of the people were then radically corrupt
—as corrupt as they were fanatical—and, that the few who ruled
were, if that be possible, more corrupt than the people themselves.
When it will appear evident, that nothing pure could emanate from
so foul a source, as all experience proves that the history of a peo­
ple is as a mirror in which that people see themselves. A lying
people will have a lying history, it will be more or less distorted
according to the moral distortion of the events it relates. Where
there is a confusion of ideas, all else will be confused; hence, we
invariably find, that in troublesome times, little is accurately known,
pnd absurd fictions, such as that related about Jesus Christ, are
generated, and handed down to posterity as sacred truths.
Mosheim gives as a reason why Christ was horn at all, the cor­
ruption of the times, and the general depravity of the human race,
and observes, that "the errors and disorders that we have now been
Digitized by Google
191
considering, required something iar above human disdori! and
power to dispel and remove them, and to deliver mankind from the
mfierable state to which they were reduced by them. Therefore,
towards the conclusion of the reign of líerod the great, the Son of
óqd descended iipon earth, and taking upon him the human nature,*
appeared to men under the sublime charactersofan infallible teacher,'
an all sufficient mediator, and a spiritual and immortal king. The
place of his birth was Bethlehem in the land of Palestine. Theyear
in which it happened has not hitherto been fired with certainty, nek*
withstanding the deep and laborious researches of the learned on that
matter, '¡There is nothing surprising in this, when we consider thatike
first Christians labored under the same difficulties, and were divided in
their opinions concerning the time of Christ's birth. That which
appears most probable is, that it happened about a year and six
months before the death of Herod,in theyear of Rome 748 or 749.
The uncertainty of the point is of no sort of consequence. W e
know that the Sun of Righteousness has shone upon the world ;
and, though we cannot fix the precise period in which he arose, this
will not hinder us from enjoying the direction and influence of hi»
vital and salutary beams.” .
All this prettyjargon about Suns of Righteousness shining upon
the world, vital and salutary beams, &c., should not distract our
attention from the moonshine of the above extraordinary passage.
The complacency and pious pompousness of the historian is pro­
vokingly ludicrous; for, after the learned have been laboriously
searching and re-searching for many a century—after John Albert
Fabricius has collected all the opinions ofthe learned concerning the
year of Christ’s birth, yet proved nothing; then, in the true spirit of
the fox who could not catch the grapes, and with quite as much cun­
ning as that animal, ourhistorian declares “ the uncertaintyhowever
of the point, is of no sort of consequence !” So, after all the care of
theologicalantiquaries, whohoard uptreasuresin heaven, by collect­
ing the dates that could in any wise throw light upon the time at
which the blessed man-god was born, certainty cannot be obtained ;
and, that which appears most probable now is, that it happened
about a year and six months before the death of Herod ; but, as no
one seems to know when Herod existed, and some have doubted
whether he ever existed at all, Christ's being bom in the year of
Rome 748, or 749, is, indeed, very problematical. It will vejy
soon appear mostprobable, that he was not bom at all; but, like
Digitized by C )gle
The translation of “ Strauss' Life of Jesus,” in weemy nu
at a price within the reach/of ail trar fieadem, renders it unneces­
sary that we should quote largely from his work in support of our
practically so> far,ka m pull icfejM l a thdfe4^^Jq?epaps
we could find no such thing were we to ransack the histories, of
Buddha, Vlchnou, Adonis, Mithta, or any other wonderful a»anr
gods. When Strauss declares, with regard to the story of the mi­
raculous conception, that “ God could not hartrl hjufa sufficient
motive to suspend a natural law established by himself unless to
obtain results unworthy ofhim ;** and replies to the objection that
the end of the redemption exacted the purity ofJems by theexclu­
sion from all participation in the work of begetting, of a iifcful 1*« *
ther, by saying “that if the maternal participation remained (which
it evidently does, according to the Evangelists), in order to Obtain
the purity supposed to be necessary, we admit another divine ope?
ration, which purified the Virgin Mary from the moment ofher
conception—else would Jesus have been stained by the sin of his
mother; but if God purified, in thatfashion, the mother, it would
have been much more simple to have done as much for the father,
than by excluding the latter, and by performing himself the pater­
nal task, overthrow soglaringly tike Laws of Nature /” The .same
author says, “ We.should bear in mind the phrase ofPlutarch, No
woman has everpretended to become a mother without knowing a man>
apply it to the impossible of Cerinthe ; for it is physiologically cer­
tain that the concurrence of two human bodies of different sexes is
necessary in order that the germ of the new human life may be
fructified and developed.”
Strauss thus deals with the miraculous conception; and his
dealings with the rest of the sacred life of Jesus are precisely
similar. He .explains sominutely the doings of Jesus—he refines so
admirablyr-^that not even the ghost of the man or god called Jesus*
remains; he explains and refines him into nothingness—makesTurn
no longer real but ideal—in short, his ideas of the existence of
Christ may be summed up in the expressive monosyllable—FUOGEl
' / / * y ''?yy Is
• Vide “ Life'OfJgrtip,” firstSection// t
------------r _ -----;-----—;-------------:------:-------------- T"--------- :-----;---r—
——1 /
London: H. Hetherington; A* Heywood, Manchester; arid all BofcKseffeft* ~
J . Taylor* Printer,Ufi, Smallbrook Street, Birmingham. - l
Digitized by Google
EXISTENCE OF CffittST
-p.v,: -ai.' A
; ,1<AS r
A HUMANJÉSlfeO,
M-.. V; & Hi !'• ' <* • -I •; f -y/
^ |rB <1
BY HKRto&9*£BEE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
■ ; ■ .-'On y . '
PROM A GERMAN JEW,
... f . •
. addressed to Christians of all denominations.
Lettér 24. weekly. One Penny.
“ I dtAjthe Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
God formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Saviour.”—I sa ia h XLIII. 3, 10, 11.
Christians, ----------
Strauss' “ Vie de Jesus,” has done much damage to genuine
orthodoxy. That singularwork has unsettled the &ith ofthousands
here and on the continent of Europe. The rage of Christian
teachers knows no bounds; and ever since the appearance of the
work in 1835, paper pellets from clerical pop-guns have been flying
in all quarters ; but the ammunition is, itself, too soft to do serious
mischief, with whatever force or dexterity it may be propelled.
The firstsection of the above work,which treats of the miraculous
conception, the genealogy of Jesus, &c., is invaluable as a criticism,
containing matter which, if not unanswerable, has never yet been
answered. The cool irony and the solemn sarcasm which pervades
the whole, addsto it pungency and force; and ofthis we are morally
certain, that any man who has the patience and courage to read
carefully what is there written, will never again be disturbed by
dreams aboutmiraculous conceptions, or virgin-mothers! All ideas
of that character will certainly give up the ghost when the section
referred to is fairly examined. Many distinguished clergymen of
the Established Church aré tainted, more or less, by this new and
most alarming heresy; among the rest may be mentioned the cele­
brated Dr. Milner—author of the History of Christianity from the
breaking up of the Roman Empire—Prebendary of Westminster,
Digitized by Google
194
a writer held m great repute for hié foaming and leaning towards
■heterodoxy. Nay, the breach betwéen him and the bigots is of so
serious and alarming a nàtüre that he has even been loudly cen­
sured by the latter for eating the bread of the church, while he is
leagued with German Infidels in the work of undermining its
foundation. .
Opposition makes some men cruel, and the determined eaters
of the church’s bread, who will live by the alter human folly has
b erected, and gasp there their last gasp, are driven by their misfor­
tunes to desperation, and in their frenzy seem to lose at once all
y /, ;J sense °f decency and all self-control. They hate Germany—“ it is
the land of thought.” Germans being thinkers, have earned their
abhorrence ; but this work of Strauss is a dose of infidelity for which
they were by no means prepared—a moral bolus they Will never
swallow, unless forced to do so by the dread of losing their influ­
ence. Strauss, himself, scared by the din raised about his ears, has
endeavored to give a new coloring and form to the harsher points
of his doctrines, leaving one more to be added to the list of men
who, like Galileo and Lawrence, uttered great truths but dared not
abide by them in the teeth of authority. But that Strauss, like
Erasmus, had no disposition to become a martyr, may be plainly
seen in his Preface to the first edition of his work, where the fol-
/ lowing ridiculous passage may be found : “ The author knows that
the internal essence of theChristian beliefis completely independent
of critical researches. The Supernaturalbirth ofChrist, his miracles,
his resurrection, and his ascension to thé sky, remain eternal truths,
however we may doubt the reality of these things considered as
historical facts.” Any man who should first read the work itself,
itod then turn to the above passage in the Preface, would have his
. feelings oscillating between disgust and pity—disgust at tills bare­
faced moral delinquency of a man who should prove the character
of Christ a myth, or mythos, which he has himself declared to be
a character made up of the sum total of -the beliefs, the ideas, and
the sentiments which prevail among any people with regard to some
individualwho was imaginedor supposedto have really existed. Pity
that such splendid talents should be so far bowed down by fear
of persecution, or the hope of reward, as to lend himself directly or
indirectly to the perpetuation of falsehood. We who have nothing
to hope for, save a knowledge of the truth, and nothing to fear, if
not shame, are in a condition to say the whole truth,and declare that
the legitimate conclusion from Strauss’ work, is, that the story of
Digitized by Google
m
the miraculous conception is mythic—that which is related m
apocryphal books about his youth is mythic—that, in short, the
whole tale from its commencement to its termination, from the
conception to the resurrection, is mythic, not a history ofreal events,
but a history of the ideas,sentiments,and beliefs of the Jewish people;
and Strauss’ opinion really was that, perhaps, a man called Jesus
played a distinguished part in Jerusalem some eighteen hundred
years ago,and that after the death ofthe individual a new character
was manufactured for him, so that it should square and harmonize
with the type of the Messiah prefigured in the traditions and sacred
books of the Jews. How rankly dishonest, therefore, it is, for such
a writer to declare that the idle tales told about the supernatural
birth of Christ, his miracles, his resurrection and his ascension to
the sky, remain eternal truths ! The gospel histories are neither
eternal, nor true, as Strauss himself has clearly proved.
The four gospels were, without doubt, the inventions of the
early doctors of the Christian sect who, Mosheim informs us,
“ had been educated in the schools of therhetoriticians and sophists,
and rashly employed the arts and evasions of their subtile masters
in the service of Christianity, and intent x>nly upon defeating the
enemy, they were too little attentive to the means of victory, indif­
ferent whether they acquired it by artifice or plain dealing.” Again,
in the same passage, “ Thus it happened through the pernicious
influence,of human passions, which too often mingle themselves
with the execution of the best purposes and the most upright in­
tentions, that they who were desirous of surpassing all others in
piety looked upon it as lawful, and even laudable, to advance the cause
ofpiety by artifice andfraud” Here we have a singularly important
admission from an orthodox Christian historian, which proves the
utter worthlessness of the writings of the early Christian writers in
support of the beliefin Christ—for how can any reasonable being
repose in safety, or build up a belief with the materials furnished
by men who " looked upon it as lauful, and even laudable, to advanoe
the cause of piety by artifice and fraud” What guarantee can we
have that the four gospels were not fraudulently concocted and im­
posed upon the world by such pious craftsmen as genuine? What­
ever affects the character of those who determined which should be
the divine gospels must affect our beliéf in the gospels themselves,
unless those gospels carry with them internal evidence of their
genuineness, which is so far from the fact, that the task of recon-?
Digitized by Google
196
citing their discrepancies and contractions' has been long ,since
given up as an interminable ás well as a bad job,
“ The opinions, or rather the conjectures (Says Dr, Moeheim) of
the learned concerning the times when the books ol the New Tes­
tament were collected into one volume, as ¿Iso about theauthors of
those collections, are extremely different. This important question
is attended with great and almost insuperable difficulties to us in
these latter times. It is, however, sufficient for us to know that
before the middle of the second century>the greatest part'of the
-books of the New Testament were read in every Christian
society throughout the world, and received as a divin&yule of faith
and manner.” None can fail to admire the coolness and gravity
with which the worthy Doctor disposes of a difficulty. He treats
difficulties and unexplained things quite cavalierly, and tike the
bold huntsman with his five barred gates, he seems to gloxy in
leaping over them. The more the merrier—the more leaping the
better sport in the theological hunt. Nothing can be more candid
than his manner, more imperturbable than his gravity, or more
conclusive than his reasonings, tor the which three essentials in the
character of an historian we honor him; for his candid statements
have a weight and force no others could have ; his gravity gives
them character and respectability, while his reasonings tend to the
overthrow of Christianity, for they shew that when the gospels were
written is not known—'that all relating to them is doubtfql and un­
certain ; and this, rememberreader,is not an infidel but a Christian
historian, not one who wished to ruin Christianity by undermining,
or openly assaulting it, but a learned man who anxiously desired to
strengthen and consolidate it. When he says the question is at­
tended with great and almost insuperable difficulties,we agree with
him ; but when he adds, “ It is, however, sufficient for us to know
that before the middle of the second century the greatest part of the
books ofthe New Testament were readin «very Christian society,”
&c., we do not agree with him, for w$esos never be said to have
sufficient knowledge of a subject till we are informed of all that
vitally affects it. lit is sufficient for our present purpose to shew
Christian readers that the worthy Doctor, with all his learning,
can give no account when the books of the New Testament were
collected together—to which we may add, by whom they were col­
lected together ? So that this crack historian is constrained to
acknowledge, after all his searchings, that he neither knows when
Digitized by Google
197
Jesus waa born, how he passed his tune, qr what species of educa­
tion he received duringthe first twelve yearsofhislife—nor does he
know when the books ofthe New Testamentwere patched upin their
presentfarmland carefullyseparatedfrom allmerelyhuman,composi­
tions,whiohaboundedduringthe firstandsecond century. However,
he subsequentlyassure*us,on theauthority of Eusebius,that thefour
gospels were collected during the life of St. John, and that the three
first received the approbation of that diyine Apostle, which Euse­
bius, by the way, has been kmdly accused of using deceit in the
composition of hie Ecclesiastical History.
■ After being well assured by such rascally authority that the four
•gospelswere collected during the life of St. John, and that the three
first received the approbation of thatdivine Apostle, then Mosheim
proceeds to ask MWhy may we not suppose that the other hooks of
the New Testament were gathered together at the same time ?” To
which supposition there can be no valid objection, though the
reason given in-support of its probability is rather a singular one,
which is no other than the urgent necessity of its being done.
“ For (observes Mosheim) not long after Christ's ascension into hea­
ven, several histories of his life and doctrines,full of pious frauds and
fabulous wonders, were composed bypersons whose intentions, perhaps,
were not bad, butwhose writings discovered thegreatest superstition and
ignorance. Nor was this all; productions appeared which were im­
posed upon theworld byfraudulent men as writings of the holy Apos­
tles” Now, we ask any candid believer in Jesus, as a man more
or less inspired with the love of truth, whether he thinks it probable
that immediately after the death of such an astonishing Reformer,
such a multitude of forged productions could have been imposed
upon the world by fraudulent men ? That there were about that
period innumerable apocryphal books and spurious histories, con­
taining full, truerand particular accounts ofa man called Jesus, is
certain; and equally certain, that they must have been the
fruitful cause ofsctdsm and confusion. The whole history of Jesus
is a book ofblunders and wonders, and it would be really more
wonderful,ifpossible,were it any thing else; and thosewho wrote the
four gospels, settled by pious rogues and fanatical idiots as the true
gospels, wrote under the influence of inspiration, it may be safely
averred that none but inspired persons can make sense of them.
•The four gospels contain some of the most absurd and senseless y
trash that ever was committed to paper; andtif the apocryphal 1
books are to be discarded by men of reflection on account of the
Digitized by Google
198
nonsense they contain, surely thè four gospels must speedily share
the same fate.
Mosheim says the rulers of the church used all possible care and
diligence in separating the books that were truly apostolical and
divine from all that spurious trash ; but how did Mosheim know
that the early rulers of the church did this ? what guarantee have
we of their infallibility in book choosing ? Rulers of the church
' «re not over diligent in separating the true and good from the spu­
rious and trashy ; their diligence in these reformed times goes quite
in an opposite direction, for they take much pains to conserve trash
and discard truth. They are the conservators of the prejudices as
well as the morals of the people ; and we have shewn from Mosheim
himself, that the early Christians were indifferent whether they ac­
quired victory by artifice or plain dealing—by fraud or by violence !
It cannot be matter of wonder that Christian ministers should
desire to disclaim all connection with apocrpyhal books, and get
rid of them by hook or by crook—though, doubtless, if they had
been wary politicians, and perfectly united among themselves, gone
the whole hog—bristles included, and boldly proclaimed all that had
ever been written about the Lord Jesus was genuine and divine, the
apocryphal bookswould,atthis moment,have beenasfirmly believed
in bythe faithfulas arenow thefour gospels. Besides, the history of
Jesus now wants completeness, as none of the gospels, as they stand
at present,relate the actions,oroccurrencesof the Redeemer's youth
until he was twelve years old, when, we are told, he tarried behind
in Jerusalem, and Joseph and his mother knew not ofit ; and after
three days, they found him sitting in the midst of the doctors both
Rearing them and asking them questions ; this is the first time we
Jhear of the Saviour's doings in the true gospels: but those books
®ow rejected as apocryphal give, at all events, a more complete
history, and satisfy the laudable curiosity all good Christians must
feel,to know how the boy Jesus used to amuse myself? what kind
ofinstruction he received ? what trade he followed? &c., of which
these cast-aside writings furnish us with. One or two of these his­
torical anecdotes, we shall furnish as a specimen of the kind of
mental diet greedily swallowed by the early Christians. It is copied
verbatim from Sike’s Latin translation of the Evangelium Infantas,
published in Arabic and Latin by Henry Sike in 1627, 8vo., and
re-printed in Fabricios Condex Apooryphius Novi Testamenti.
We may add, the work is generally attributed to Saint Thomas :—
tf And when the Lord Jesus had completed seven years from his
Digitized by Google
nativity, he Was one day playing with some other boys of the same
age, his companions ; the players employed themselves in making
figures of oxen, asses, birds, and others.of the same kind, of mud,
. and each boasted ofhis work, and endeavoured to prove its supe­
riority over the other figures. Then the Lord Jesus said to the
boys, I will command these figures that I have made to walk. The
boys then inquired if he was the Creator’s son ? And the Lord
Jesus commanded them to walk, and they immediately walked; and
when he ordered them to return,they returned. He made the figures
of birds and sparrows ; and when he commanded them to fly, they
flew ; and when he commanded them to remain stationary, they
remained stationary ; and if food or drink was offered, they ate and
drank. When the boys afterwards went to their parents and re­
lated this to them, their fathers said to them, avoid associating with
him in future, children, because he is a magician ; fly and shun
him, and never play with him from this moment.”
“ Joseph took the Lord Jesus with him when he went round the
city ; and when he was called by men to exercise his trade, by
making doors, or milk-pails, or sieves, or chests, the Lord Jesus
was with him wherever he went ; and as often as Joseph had any
thing to make longer or shorter,broader or narrower, the Lord Jesus
extended his hand towards it, and immediately it became as Jo­
seph wished ; so that every thing he did was done in a most excel­
lent manner.”
"One day the LordJesus went outinto the street to play, and saw
boys who had assembled for playing, and mixed with the crowd.
And when they saw him they concealed themselves, and caused him
to look for them. And Jesus arrived at the door of a house and
inquired of women who stood there,where the children were gone ?
And when none there replied, the Lord Jesus again said, what see
ye in the furnace ? what are they? And they answered, kids three
years old. And the Lord Jesus cried out and eaicf, come hither O
kids ! to your shepherd. And immediately the children came out
in the form ofkids, and leaped around; and when the women saw
this they were greatly astonished and seized with fear and tremb­
ling ; they, therefore, directly adored the Lord Jesus, and prayed to
him, saying, O our Lord Jesus, son of Mary, thou art truly the
good shepherd of Israel, have mercy on thy handmaids who stand
before thee ; for thou, O our Lord Îearnest to heal, not to destroy !”
No Christians now consider these tales worthy of credit ; while,
in the orthodox gospels, we are left without the shadow ofinforma-
Digitized by Google
200
tion astothe |>eriod of the life of Jeaas stretching from his birth
till, at the age'df twelve years, we rfeadof him *
extraordinary manner with the Jewish doctors ih tjy
Jerusalem, where wAll that heard him were astonished at his un­
derstanding and answers*;” but we are totally left in the dark by
Luke as to the manner in which he became possessed of such
an amount <ffknowledge as to confound ahd astonish the Ujfnwsd
Jew s: and the same apocryphal work from which wequoted SboVe,
declares that one of the Jewish philosophers, who greatly excelled
in medicine^ndythe^ natural sciences, inquired if the Loud Jesus
had studied m eim ei^W hen he, in reply, explained physics and
metaphysics, hyperphysics and hypophysics, the powers and hu­
mours of the body, and their effects—the number of the members
and bones, veins, arteries, and nerves—temperaments, hot and dry,
cold and humid, and what arose from them—the operations of the
soul in the body, and its sensations and powers, &c. &c., which is,
indeed astonishing, and redounds so much to the honorofthe infant
Je9us, that it is a pity it cannot be believed! What a delicious
gobe-monehe for the faithful followers of the Lamb—if they could
but get it down ! Besides, it would be satisfactory to complete the
history ofthe Saviour—beginning with the miraculous conception;
then to follow, in due order,the equally miraculous bringing-forth;
then an account of the miracles that the infant wrought; how he
played at pic-a-back, and amused himself by frightening the lads
of the village, by mud-larking; then would come a flaming account
of his wonderful dexterity in making deal-boards out of sawdust,
which boards had all the hardness of beech, with more than the
pliability of India-rubber; then would follow the conversations in
the Jewish temples, and other places, about physic, metaphysics,
hyperphysics, hypophysics, &c. &c. &c., up to the glorious resur­
rection !—a chajln of historic truth, having a beginning, a middle,
and an end—its beginning a miracle, its middle a miracle, and its
end a miracle—in short, a miracle altogether! which it would be
quite miraculous for any one to understand.
The mental advancement of a people, for whose edification such
crude absurdities were written, must have been small indeed; and
yet, that was the period when- the gospels, upon which our faith
in the existence of Je&us hangs,.were written. Who with any
pretension to reason would rely uyon sueh history? '
Londoij: JI. Hetherington; A. Heywood, ManChester^ and all Bookseller^.. -
-- -J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Smailbrook Street, Birmingham. . '
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
' ■ A* A HUMAN SfHNG»
DISPROVED!
BY tRRt&SDIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OP ALL DENOMINATIONS.
Letter 25. weekly. One Penny.
“ I amthe Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
God formed, neither shall there be after me. f, even /, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3,10,11,
Christians, ----------
Our work is fast drawing to a close; and it is now necessary to
retrace our steps, and, as it were, measure and examine the ground
already passed over. In early numbers it has been shewn that in
. ancient times the worship of Nature was universal, and that the
Sun appearing to the eyes ofmortals, the most splendid and useful
of its parts or agents was the object of special love and adoration.
Streams ofheat and light seemed to pour from that brilliant lumi­
nary as from an eternal and inexhaustible reservoir; and, as without
heat (called theprinciple of life) and light (called thefirst being), our
globe, with its endless varieties of vitalexistences,—from the monad
(a secret to the naked eye) which forms the base of vegetable mat­
ter, flying the light of the Sun and taking refuge in the shade—to
the enormous whale, roaming the mighty deep,—from the butterfly,
with wings of gold and azuré, basking in the solar rayt^to the ma­
jestic Condor which wings high its daring flight, proudly towering
above the snow-capped mountain’s summit, leaving far beldad the
mightiest hills that convulsed earth seems to have vomited from her
bosom,—from the yellow gently-waving ears of com, moving so
gracefully and sportively in harmony with the passing breeze—to
the gnarled oak, carrying upon its massive trunk the marks ofmany .
ages, standing in calm dignity, as though, like A^x, it defied the
Digitized by Google
lightning, and the ever rustling forest of bamboos, which, like a
mighty ocean of verdure, charms the'eye of the traveller on the
shores ofthe Granges,—from the molecules of matterwhich seem to
hesitate, while standing upon the limits of organization,between the
plant and animal, and the polypiwhose organs are hardly prepared
to fulfil die actionsofanimality—up to man himself,who seems to be
the last, the most elaborate, as he is confessedly the most noble, of
Nature’s productions,—all, without heat and light, wouldinevitably
perish; the earth itselfbecome a stiffened heap, “ without form and
void,14and universal silence preside over universal gloom !
That men should,in ages of error,have worshipped the brilliant
Star whose appearance waked the earth into life, joy, and glad­
ness, and whose absence seemed to abandon the world to death,
darkness, and misery, cannot he matter of wonder;for they always
associating the idea of life and intelligence with motion or apparent
motion—the Son appearing to he in motion, wasthought to beitself
a god, or a god’s dwelling place. The next step was to personify
the brilliancy, force, and goodness of that luminary; hut, as upon
the earth’s surface there exists no type so noble 09man himself, the
Sun was symbolized by a man—powerful, generous, and brave^
whose resistless strength and glorious ardour enable him to over­
power and to destroy the powers of darkness, and extirpate those
monsters so cruel and destructive to mankind. Hence, Hercules
worshippedin Egypt, Phenecia, and Greece; hence, Chrisbna, Atys,
Adonis, Bacchus, and that crowdofgods and demi-gods, said by the
nations of antiquity to have existed; for, though those who first
personified Nature as a whole, or in its parts, knew that such per­
sonifications were but symbols ofthings: in process of time, the per­
sonification was mistaken for a real existence, and a vulgar belief
grew up, and strengthened by age, that Hercules, Mithra, Jupiter,
and others, had actually existed and performed the acts attributed
to them. Here is the cause of the confusion and gross absurdity to
be found in all the religions systems which have been, or are now
taught. •
- Thiswork has shewn that Hercules, Mithra, and other gods,were
•but personifications of the Sqn,—while, at the same time, it has in­
contestably proved that the religion and worship of Christ i9 hut a
copy of the religion and worship of Mithra, the god Sun of the
Persians. Certainly, as noticed in the second number, Augustin,
Fkmioae, Justin, Tertullian, andothers, having perceived the exact
resemblance b^ween the religion of Christ and the religion of
•igitizec / Goo<;
208
Mithra, did, with an impertinence only to be equalled by ite out*
rageous absurdity, insist that the devil,jealous and malignant, in­
duced the Persians to establish a religion the exact image of Chris­
tianity that was to be,—for these worthy saints and sinners of the
ehurch could not deny that the worship of Mithra preceded that of
Christ,—so that, to get out of the ditch, they summoned the devil to
their aid, and with most astonishing assurance, thus accounted for
the striking similarity between the Persian and die Christian re­
ligion, the worship of Mithra and the worship of Christ; a mode of
getting rid of a difficulty atonce so stupid and absurd,that it would
be almost equally stupid and absurd seriously to refute it. The
worship of Christ, and the religion based upon it, is an exact copy,
in all its essential features, of theworship of Mithra and the religion
of the Magi; if so, is it notmorally certainthat the Persians did not
copy the religion of the Christians, butthat theChristians copiedthe
religion of the Persians ? The early fathers must have been very
reluctant to admit the likeness was so complete; the admission was,
however,wrungfrom them,by factsthey werecompelledto receive as
such, end which could not beexplained or argued away by any other
than a devilish kind ofsophistry. It is,therefore,incontestably proved
that Mithrawasthe originalpersonificationofthegod Sun—ofwhich
Christ is the eopy—as it is certain the original must exist before the
copy can be made; and Mosheim informs us that “ Manes (or Man-
ehseus, as he is sometimescalled byhisdisciples), by birth a Persian,
educated among the Magi, and instructed in all those arts and
sciences which the Persians and the other neighbouring nations held
m the highest esteem, who had penetrated into the depths of as­
tronomy, in the midst of rural life studied the art of healing, and
applied himself to painting and philosophy,—that this great genius
(continues Mosheim) combined these two systems (that is, the Per­
sian and the Christian system), and applied and accommodated to
Jesus.Christthecharacters andactionswhich the Persians attributed
to the god Mithra/' The comparison instituted by us in oursecond
number, between Mithra and Christ, renders it unnecessary to write
another line in order to shew that those who worship Christ as a
god, are idolaters—bowers down to an idol formerly worshipped m
Persia under die name of Mithra, and that Manes was right when
he accomodated to Christ the character and actions which die Pen*
sians .attributed to the God Mithra. *
Having thus firmly fixed upon the unshakeable basis of autbendj)
bistory, the opinion with which yre set nut, that (what is« belated
Digitized by Google
204
aboutChrist is an idle tale,auction nations—let
those who are still unmoved in their conviction the#thema^ Christ
existed, remember the admission made by Mosheimvrthat it is
not known when the man JeSus was bom, and that when so as­
tonishing an event took place was not known among the first
Christians—nay, not only did they not know when Jesus was bom,
but they each held different opinions thereupon; let them, ¡remember
that in those times there existed enormous abuses and corruptions,
that human viciousness seemed to be at its niaximum-^that, as a
consequence, fictions the most gross and absurd Were greedily
swallowed by the people, and as readily furnished by their ghostly
teachers—that with respect to written documents, forgerieswere the
rule, while genuine authentic documents were tile exception—that
such was the number of apocryphal books, and piously fraudulent
writings—such the unscrupulous and barefaced manner in which
sincere cheats endeavoured to palm off their volumes of lies upon
credulous magistrates, that, according to Mosheim,it required “ all
possible care and diligence in the Christian doctors in separating
the books that were truly apostolical and divine from such spurious
tra sh let them remember that the passagein Josephus, relating to
Christ, is now given up as a forged interpolation, totally unworthy
of credit, set down to the account of Josephus by some friend to
Christianity, who was anxious to strengthen the evidence in favor
of Christ’s existence; let them remember that all the Pagan writers
who have condescended to notice the Christians, have treated them
with superciliousness, and the most marked contempt—stigmatizing
them as a despicable sect, practising every imaginable crime, and
professing a most malignant and diabolical superstition, whilst the
observations of Tacitus, so often triumphantly referred to by Chris­
tian writers, as authority not to be resisted in favor of the actual
existence of a man called Jesus, are,in realty, shaken to their very
centreby that historian;indeed,so farfromtheChristiancause being
strengthened by Tacitus, it must,in theopinion ofevery enlightened
and candid man, utterly shake aU confidence in it, Tacitus gives
the etymology ofthe term Christian, and says it was derived from
one Christ, put to death under PontiusPilate; but thenthe qnestion
is not whether Christians weite,Orwere not, called after one Christ;
but whether the tale told ofone Christ is the authentic history of a
man who actually existed, or merely one of those legendary tra­
’ - ditions which abound in times ofsuperstition and generalignorance?
' The Ttonmn'lnstorian might equally have said, tbat tb* Greeks
Digitized by Google
205
; were,the secteries.or foUo^exs of one He^ules, who vjaa,destroyed
- byfirsafter be*og enveloped in thepoisonausxohe,ofJhe, Centaur;
. buatno one-in hi» senses will declare that, therefore,. Hercules really
existed. Tacitus had to write a histQry of Nero, from whq^e cruel
*' tyranny the Christians suffered every,kind of hardship and ju stice,
whea hegave.to their name,the receive4 qtyftnrtogy* ^Lthout deigning
to trottWehimselffurther,aboutthe leader pfso ummportan^nd, as
theyto him appeared»so.despicableasect^be^ides,^ reipar^edin the
fifth Letter»anexaminationwhethera map»orgod,called Christreally
existed* would have been quite put of place in his work,,while that
which entirely neutralizes the observation of Tacitus, so greedily
seized upon by Christians, is this, that Suetonius, and other Roman
historians, also speaks of the Jews, and the manner in which they
were excited at Rome,under Claudius, by a certain Christ,—thereby
1oontmdiotiagp, and throwing discredit upon, the observations of
> Tacitus, who speaks of one Christ,put to death by Pilate during the
• reign of Tiberius; and yet, these are the statements—these are the
proofs of the existence of a man called Jesus Christ» upon which
Christians, and even firstrrate In&dejs confidently rely ! It is cer­
tain .these historians wrote about Christ and Christians, with no
other guide than vage rumours, so plentiful in troublesome times;
so that what they wrote cannot be esteemed of any importance—-
hardly worth a passing remark,—nay» their evidence, even though
it agreed upon all points, icould not be admitted as decisive
upon this-question; but seeing that they relate two statements en­
tirely contradictory, not only would it,be *unsafe to consider the
mention they make of one Christ, or a certain Christ , as a suf­
ficient historic guarantee for the reality of his existence, they, in
fact, help to give consistency and. strength,to the,m^ss of evidence
collected in this work, in disproofof the axistenyeas a human being
. erfthe Jtesna Christ.alluded to by the apostles,,who is even now re­
vered, honored, and worshipped, by Christians ofall denominations
—-revered as a philosophic reformer by Deists and Atheists—
honored as a prophet, more,or less divinely inspired, by the Unita-
rians—and worshipped by.millions as an incarnation of Deity, the
Son of the living G0d,,who^,was miraculously conceived, miracu­
lously bom, miraculously died» and miraculously ascended into
. heaven ; which story has been most miraculously believed in for
\ more than eighteen bunched years;! . 4 >p
; The evidence here adduced mustfor pyqr decide the,question in
T$he minds <rfaH who will take the trouble torsxapfti^dt ^pnd cer.
Digitized by Google
tain it is, that the belief in Jeans mil speedily give way before the
light of truth. The undecided whisperings we now hear, are as the
rumblings which precede the earthquake; and it is certain that
with a free press, the gross absurdities of the Christian religion will
not maintain their ground fifty years longer. All men of intellect
hold them to be beneath contempt—the very quintessence of the
ridiculous—a scandal and a shame to the reason of man; the
scourge of virtue, and the prop—the very corner-stone—of vice!
Yes, orthodox theologians and their systems are moved and
shaken “ as a reed is shaken by the wind,” by the breath of free
inquiry. •
There are few among you fully acquainted with the dishonest
practices commonly resorted to by the early Christian writers.
They were notorious forgers—rarely scrupling to spin evidence put
of their own brains when none could be found in authentic docu­
ments suitable for their purpose. To ward off the blows aimed at
them by the Pagans and Infidels, no weapons were considered un­
lawful : nor was this all, for the old saints seemed to glory in their
infamous prowess—wearing their vileness—as a dancing-girl her
plumes and jewels—for shew and ornament,—as though rascality,
in aid of what they had themselves determined, was the true reli­
gion—was the measure of holiness! It was not uncommon for
these pious fathers and teachers of Christ's word, to forge certain
documents or paragraphs, and then charge the Jews, or others,with
having erased them from the Bible. Thus, Justin Martyr, a most
zealous Christian writer, of great reputation for sanctity, charges
the Jews with having erased from the book of Ezra the following
Words—“ Aud Ezra said unto the people, This passover is our Sa­
viour and our refuge; and if you will but persuade to be con­
vinced in your hearts that we are to humble to him in a sign or
figure, and afterwards to put our trust in him, this place shall not
be made desolate to all ages, says the Lord of Hosts; but if yon
do not believe in him, nor attend to his preaching, you shall be as
dirt to the nationsw hich passage Justin did most scandalously
charge the JeWs, because of their enmity to Christ, with blotting*
out of the book, evidently with the two-fold object of aspersing the
Jews, and by a lie, strengthening the belief in Christ; for, as the
editor of Justin justly remarks, “ This passage is not to be found in
any copies of the apocryphal or canonical Ezra, nor in any other
Christian writer, except Lactantiua,—and instead of being expun­
ged by the Jews, appears to hare beenforged*bythe Christians” Who*
Digitized by Google
2Ô7
with any pretension to reasonableness, would build his faith upon
the testimony of such men ?
A more graceless band of sanctified sinners than the saints and
apostolic fathers of the Christian church certainly never before nor
since profaned literature. They were truly fishers of men—not
forgetting to draw up all other good things ; indeed, all was fish
that came to their net. There was no fable, however extravagant,
they would hesitate to trumpet forth as a divine truth!—no asser­
tion they did not feel themselves warranted in making for the glory
of the church of Christ, and the supportofpopular delusion! This
may he considered as an overcharged picture of their viciousness,—
but what shall we think of St. Irenseus, who tells us that “ Lot’s
wife remains in the countiy of Sodom, not in corruptible flesh, but
in a state ofpermanent salt, and shewing by her natural parts, all
the ordinary effects!" or, of Tertullian, a famed father ofthe church,
in his poem on the same delicate subject, which is curious, and
should be translated, but our readers would think it richly inde­
cent, so we leave the lines as untranslateable :—
Di citar et vixens alio sab oorpore sexus,
Mirifico sofito dis pungere sanguine menses.
Mosheim, a greatfriend to the saints, nevertheless deals them
some heavy blows in bis Ecclesiastical History (p. 124), where' he
observes, u that multitudes of people of all kinds were everywhere
admitted without examination, and without choice, into the body of
the clergy; the greatest part of whom had no other view than the
enjoyment of a lazy and inglorious repose. Many of these ecclesi­
astics were confined to no fixed places or assemblies—had no em­
ployment of any kind, but sauntered wherever they pleased, gaining
their maintenance by imposing upon the ignorant multitude, and
sometimes by mean and dishonest practices. But if any one
should ask how this is reconcileable with the number ot saints who,
according to the testimonies of both eastern and western writers,
are said to have shone forth in this century ? the answer is obvi­
ous—these saints were canonizedby theignoranceofthetimes!* If the
friends of Christianity write thus about its prime supporters, the
saints, whatcan be expected from its enemies? But theinfamy ofthe
saints and fathérs is so well established, that it would have been
dangerous to the reputation and authority of any historian to throw
a cloak ovef their enormities; and justice compels us to add, that
there4s much less of bitterness and more of candour in Mosheim,
than in the generality of Christian writers; this it is which raises
Digitized by Google
20ft
his evidence against Christianity beyond the reach of cavil from
the friends ofthat religion; ari^ jlp its <
" * Tpiainffjfa
sed,tiiey OutsiigfctCause(
furnished one of the most efficient morafHbati
be desired by sceptical destructives, who desire to beat down the
walls ofthe Christian citadels; and certainly nothing that has been
written by plume, Gibbon, or Vokafrer eyer^iA such j
the character of Christian writers. Mark his can^o^w®n
ing of the Christians,—“ This disingenuous and vicious method*of
surprising their adversaries by artifice, and striking them,dovyp^
it were, by lies and fictions, produced, among other disagreeable
effects, a great number 6f books which were falsely attributed to
certain men in order to give their spurious productions more credit
and weight/’ ■
Who, after this, will presume to talk about the undoubted autho­
rity,or respectable character,of the saints, fathers,and doctor$of¿be j .
Christian church?—and yet the gospelsof Christ—the Evangelical
books—were selected*by these Worthies, teith great carefwines*, from. -
an immense heap of spurious and apocryphal trash, which thre l'v
and holy gospels they have, with equal carefulness, handed down to . (
their descendants in the^hurch. But who will guarantee ns from
deception—who can now prove that these CAREful rogues only r
selected the true and authentic—leaving the false and the forged ?
If it be answered that they were favored in their selection by
divineassistance,andthereforecouldnothavemademistakes,such
ananswerassumesthewholequestionindispute;forifItbeallowed
thatmen,suchasMosheimdescribestheSaintsaridfhtherstohave
been, were divinelyinspired, and, as a consequence,infallible-
nothingmorecouldhereasonably advancedupon'the matter$but,
itis quiteimpossiblethattherecanbedivinelyinspiredroguesand
hypocrites—therecannotbeinfallibleliars-^-suchmencariUotbein-* *
fallible,divine,ortrustworthy,whatevernamewepleasetocallthen*f
andtheywho,accordingtoMosheim,“weredesirousofsurpassing*all '
othersinpiety,andlookeduponit aslawful, andeven laudabletotidvance
the causeofpietybyartificeandfraud, Cannotintheeyeofthemoralist,
nomatterwhattheirpretensionstodivine inspiration and infhl& :
bility, be considered in anyother light than as deceivers upon*
principle,—and by system, either knaves or fools^-oiara^tenr •'■-V'
equally mischievousjandequallyunworthyof<mrconfidence. '*
'■ ' ‘
_______-----------------!------ .. .P. , —.......f^air * ’** :‘‘
London: H.Hetberinjfton ;A.Heywood, Manchester; and allBoftksehefv* ,
J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Sinallbrook Street, Birmingham. * ^
Digitized by Goc e
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OP LETTERS,
PROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OI* ALL DENOMINATIONS*
Letter 26. Weekly. One Penny.
“ I am the Lord thy Ood, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
tM formed, neitherahullthere be alter me. /, emu /, am the Lord, and beeidee
me there ie no Saviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3,10, 11.
C h ristian s, -------- .
The famous forgery in Josephus, once thought genuine, bnt now
given up by the learned (as a passage interpolated by eome friend
to Chrmtianity) runs thus, “ Now, there was about this time Jesus a
wise man—if it be lawful to call him a man—for he was the doer
of wonderful works, a teacher of 9uch men as receive the truth with
pleasure. He drew over to him both many of the Jews and
many of tbeQentiles; and when Pilate, at the suggestion of the
principal men aipomg us, badcondemned him to the cross, those
who loved him at the first did not forsake him—for he appeared to
them alive again the third day, as the divine prophet had foretold
these, andten thousand other wonderful things concerning him;
and thf tribe of Christians,so named from him, are not extinct at
this day.14 Strange to say, the above forged paragraph, together
with the observation of Tacitus, that “ the name Christian was
derived from one Christy put to death under Pontius Pilate, &c.,
and the extract from Suetonius, who» when writing about the dis­
turbances among the Jews*,unde* Qaudius,says, <
<they (the Jews)
were moved by a certain Christa* tmbnlent ¿editions man, whpse
abettors were banished from Rom?/ constitute all the external evl-
dense in support ofithe reality of the man Jesus, so confidently
believed in by Christians, Deists,and very many Philosophers! By
Digitized by Google
219
i*$er*al9)wtk&& is meantttilB^ evidence fiymjphpd,jflt
wereeither opposed, or ifldifjfefent to Chmsljanity;; ^
nttl evidence ail facts, or assumed fadts, collectedeither.t)y <!^^|(Ois
themselves* or those who from political motives, regarded C^yis-
tianity with a favorable eye. The first kind of evidence is „of by
fhrthu meet weight, as.it is freed from all ¿uspiciq^. oi*.jgpfj^ality,
which ever attaches more or less to the writing of or
sectaries, when engaged in defending their favorite creed, system,
or party—► nay,if there be any partiality at all in extorted evidence,
it is a partiality decidedly hostile to the system or creed ip whicli it
refers; hence, an,admission made in favor of any set ofopinions by
a writer known to be opposed to them, i9 justly considered .of far
more authority and consequence than the most extravagant lauda­
tions offriendly or interested minds; for these latter do not always
set down what is, but that they wish to be—and too oftep, asjn the
case of tiie early Christians, not finding the evidence t^ey seek,
scruple not to invent it; apd those writers have a very slender
knowledge ofhuman nature who expect all truth without any.alloy
offalsehood from the defenders of religious and political systems,
whose hopes and feelings are strongly enlisted; for, as justly re­
marked by Heraclitus, “ The light of the human understanding is
not a pure dry light, but drenched in the will mid the affections.”
It is certain many Pagan writers noticed the sectof Christians, but
in a manner far from satisfying, flattering, or honorable—dealing
with them as immoral disturbers of political order—mischievous
fanUtics, whose doctrines, strangely compounded of mysticism, athe­
ism, and superstition,were so pernicious and absurd, that their best
refutation was loathing and contempt. Of this any one may assure
himselfby reading Juvenalis (A. D. 100)—Plinius and Trajanus
(A. D. 106)—Antonins (A, D. 170)—Lucianus (A. D. 176)—
Celsiis (A. D. 176)—Epictetus (A. D. 109)—Aristides (A. D..176)
Tacitus (A. D. 105)—and Suetonius (A. D. 115). However mor­
tifying the reflection may be, it is unquestionably true, that these
writers have treated the Christ and his followers with a most pro­
voking indifference,rarely deigning even tohold them up to (Jgrisioti
and scorn, as in no case have,they done more than give s brief
and passing notice of the Christians, invariably considering,,them
as deluded fanatics, misguided followers of some obscure, impqator.
The writings of Hieroeles, Celsus,and Pophyry, may be considered
aa exceptions to the above remark; but as these were cprefuJfg
destroyed by the Christians,we are left without a clue as to the merit»
Digitized by Google
211
of any,except the writings of Celsus, some of whose arguments and
raa&nings Kaye readied oarrimes; bat then they eaanotbe raised
"fiff/tis^ftie/arfe jast'wftjtt his Opponent Origines^in whose writings
" preserved) has thought proper to make them—a writer of
it has been justly observed by Bishop Horsley, “ was not
in&aph'bl6 of asserting in argument that which he believed not/* •
iA‘iWfanywriters of well earned and great reputation,whoNourished
aboht therirhe Jesus is said to have played the Christ, do not even
so nihth as mention him. Not a syllable about him, or his followers
tanvbe found in' Pomponius Mela (A. D. 40)—PHnius, the natu­
ralist (A. D. 70)—Aulus Persius (A. D. 60)—Annseus Lucanus
(A. D. 63)—Seneca, the philosopher (A. D. 60)—Papinius Statius
(A.D. 90)—Petronius Arbiter (A.D. 60)—QuinctiHanis(A. D. 100)
—Lucius Floras (A.D. 110)—(Efianis (A. D. 120)—Dio Prusseus
(A. D. 98)—Arrianus (A. D. 140)—Appianus (A. D. 133)—
Ptoloraeeus (A. D. 130)—Pomponius Mena (A. D. 40)—Pansanius
(A .D . 170)—and a host of others. Strange that so wonderful a
person as Jesus is represented to have been,—such an astonishing
reformer and dabbler in magic—whose boldness had made authority
tremble—and whose skill in the art of legerdemain filled the earth
with the fame of his seditions and miracles, should have beenpassed
by in utter contempt, orforgotten by so many philosophersand sages.
As to Luciana (who unceremoniously calls the Christ a crucified
sophist),and Ulpianus, Eunapius,Porphyry, Taeitus,and Suetonius,
all good Christians must feel how very equivocal was the mention
they made ofthem—how utterly valueless when considered as evi-
deride, that the man Jesus was the Christ, or actually existed.
The mere reference of Tacitus and Suetonius to a noisy and se­
ditious sect of Christians, followers of one Christ, or a certain
Christ, cannot be admitted as of a feather's Weight in the balance
ofArguments for oragainst the existence of Jesus; theirtestimony,
at best, only proving that there were, during the times of Nero and
Claudius, certain persons calling themselves disciples of the Christ
(the anointed), the MessUth long expected by the Jewish people,
whose coming upon earth in power and glory, they believed, was
tflH y prefigured in the SacredBooks; but, surely no man in his
sSBes will contend, thatit is thereby proved that Jesus was the
Christ, or that he really existed! ft will be seen in future numbers,
that there were, at the time Jesus is said to have lived, many
1 Christs—twenty at least—all having their fanatic follawers^who
^ believed in their divine character; and whose sincerity will hardly
Digitized by Google
m
be in;£uestipn,wb#C;th$,faot>is reepeded tt# ,tkeyjW^r«
^Uiug^ioJayodcwbthen^ee a
# oftheirifeUb*;woiiod
ViIf.49ftny hjutfopiim^fnd, wntefh .eternal tp tbeuebwiflM^d
agreed whe&¿e$uswfnsjipriVrrhad they giye^ cofew^nti«^ cpi^i^
tent details as fc) tb? prwtftactions of,his,life—h*4 fW v
pfim pp^g^tb^rify ^fc?x«difpbim in¿note* m anners ¿Qnp?$*
^y^pppptio^oi:fwilfidj^osit^p^iB^pb $$i4*p&e
,p*,{ayor p£the .beliefip fhe man Jqsus could apt be^ebnfftedi*>ffii|y
ai^^biad ol evasion, pr sophistiy; but, when we bop^vdipbvtb^reKis
uots.smgie writer, except among the Chrisfiaus,whfl,faftaifft$ffiiflPg»l
Jesus by name,—never, at most, doing more than plbad^ ip aivnff-
hand,indirect manner to one Christy or *9 a certain Christy of-whose
turbulent character and seditious practice« ttys breath ofvagfce
rumopr had conveyed to thpm crude and indefinite ideas ; tuppn
what ground, we ask, can any reasonable,man buildup afeeliefiafcbe
Jesus ofthe Evangelists ?—especially ifhereflect upon th$notorious
fact, that all intrinsic evidences urged in support of the supposition
have been, in some eases, actually known as pious forgerie%7
7
-white,
in all9they have beep collected by Christians themselves in, ages of
intellectualdarkness andmonkish superstition—by men proverbially
dishonest, and un^cruplous wfien the interest of true religion was,
at stake, , , . , ;
Josephus,Tacitus,andSuetonius—here is alltheexternalevidence
worthy the name, Christian Doctors can furnish—the three great
authorities which have scared so many Infidels and Sceptics,cheating
them into a beliefin Je^us. For exaipple, Mr. Robert Dale Owen,
justly considered a first-rate Sceptic,bps;not been sfiflewd enough to
escape the trap; for in a note* he observes, “ W e have besides, what
J consider.suffici^pt historical evidence of the history of thp Jewish
philosopher. , Tacjtnfl, in the celebrated passage contained in his
Annals, XV.,44, (of which, says Gibbon,themost, sceptical nn-
thorjty is obliged to respect the truth) says, f they (the Cbriatiauq)
derived their name and origin fyon Qhr^Vwhb* invtbe;rs%ft;nf
Tiberius, had suffered death by sentence pf»the Procurator,
PontiusPilate.’” Now, itplainly appears¿batweoutrscepticii&ethis
first-rate Sceptic; as, while this Jitter,pppves, thatgranting IjdMto
wrote truly that the Christians caJUeflthemselves after one th^jBpd
wastheChrist—-JesusofNazareth,whosehistoryisrelated in theioar
gospels, wasyetnottheChrist, bptapurelyimaginarybdng; uorisitf
*d* VwmiQn w the Aotheutidty of Bible between Orifcte# B*&h#lir
aud Robert Dale Owen.
Digitized by Google
213
1
"lfcieasli,Ifcálfheeároewritershouldhavegone «o A rto expuse t&s
hollownessófJewishtestimonyin favorofJesus,andyet,nothaveseen
kfelah&ftftestimony of Tacitus was not of one jot mote value. He
-fckps^Phifo Jud»as, the well-known Jewish historian, was á con-
Wpdhfty of'Christ. He was sent by the Jews as ambassador to
-flftnttf, sttc'Or(as some have it) eightyears after the usually teO&ved
^dotfrof thé 'deathof Jesus. He must have been in,or nearJetusa-
jéiAatthe very time of the crucifixion; yet not one word is there.
itftds ftitotoryregarding Christy or the Christians, ortheir Scriptures
Strange thatMr. Owen should have been so near the truth, and not
“have slipped into it! He continues, "Josephus, who wrote his
'celebrated history of the Jews some forty orfifty years after Christ's
death,dbe» not eyen allude to the Christian books, or to the Christian
addmg in a note, that "the famous interpolation, so long
triumphantly cited by Christians from the Jewish historian,is now,
~bycommon consent, abandoned as a forgery." Itis passing strange!
¿marvellous indeed! that so rigid an investigator should not have
/jgohe one step further, and seen the whole truth.
* With respect to Tacitus and Suetonius, it has already been fully
febéwn, that as regards the actual existence of Jesus, they prove
.nothing ; nay, they indirectly wound the religion they are brought
to support,—for their statements are mutually destructive, as they
contradicteach other, and, like equal opposing forces, are held in
equilibrio. At best, they only shew the etymology of the name
^Christ, when giving an account of the mischievous and seditious
practices of the sect, and the great contempt in which they were
held—whilst the renowned passage from Josephus has been aban­
doned by the stout champions of the holy Jesus as indefensible—a
bungling forgery, carrying upon its face the stamp of falsehood—
whose author cannot even claim the poor commendation of clever-
nees-r-in. short, the passage is given up as an interpolation—
probably slipped into the body of the work by some pious saint
-trhosaw how absolutely naked, and without solid support was the
tiasartion that Jesus had Hved, and how necessary it was for the
interest of his orderthat idea should be strengthened by so great an
authority as Josephus. Had the paragraph really been written by
Josephus, it would certainly have been decisive of the question as
totfcei¡existence of Jesus; but, as the passage has been reluctantly
fiver) up as not genuine, the Christian cause has suffered much in
J ^ ei^ a tio n of thinking men; fpr it seems incredible, that the
Digitized by Google
« riy Christian writers would hare stooped to forge, had they npt
hero, reduced to- cteperate shifts, when feeling the weakness of
their Cause, and in order to conserve popular delusion, they resorted
tomudh Scandalous means to perpetuate it Taking Josephus fiom
the Christians, leaves them absolutely bare of proof—without,'a
shadow of external evidence to support their tottering superstition.
^If wb tern to the internal evidence, what a mags of confusion—
4rhftt Volumes of contradictions, crudities,,and outrageous absurdi­
ties we everywhere behold! Knavery and folly seem to holcLa
- divided but undisputed empire—forgery and folly in clos^ alliance,
making warupon the common senseof mankind; but of all writers,
the inspired ones seem to be the most complete blockheads. Thus,
wevArid in the gospel according to Luke, it is written (ch. 2, v. 1,
"2)wAnd it came to pass in those days, that there went out a
decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the world should be taxed.”
,(HAnd this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of
Syria.”) ‘ Matthew agrees with Luke, that Jesus was bom in Beth­
lehem, (ch. 2. v. 1.) u Now when Jesus was bom in Bethlehem of
Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men
from the East to Jerusalem.” Here we have a lucky coincidence
of the Evangelists ; and until lately no wicked spirit in or out of
the church, has ventured to breathe a doubt as to the correctness
of Luke's statement. * Mosheim, our readers will remember, writes
decidedly as to the place where Christ was born,—though he only
ventures to think it probable—when saying the place of his birth was
Bethlehem, in the land of Palestine. / -
It is a pity this harmony among the Christian writers, as to the
place where the infant Jesus was bora, should have been interrup­
ted by other considerations,—as such harmony is rather novel; but
it happens unfortunately for the credit of Luke that Jesus covH not
Twee been born in Bethlehem when Cyrenius was governor of Syria ;
It is a chronologie impossibility. Luke (or whoever wrote the
book bearing his name) seems to have been determined, in getting
up a history ofJesus, not to stop at trifles,—and remembering the
prophecy of Micah (ch. 5, v. 2)—“ But thou, Bethlehem Epliratah,
•though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee
shall he come forth that is tQbe ruler of Israel,” See.; be thought
he might with a little dexterity arrange the history in such a manner
3# that theprophecy might be fulfilled; but alas! poor Lukehas^only
' Succeeded in displaying his own ignorance of facts and ppnfqnpt
Digitized by Google
'¿or cferi^otigy; Jesus,' tfe &r&fold % Matthew (ch.2y v; I) w ii
^ Ihi i^lfethfehem of Judea, fa ille day« of Herod theJong ?.and
Tjuke iegftis his tale about‘the HdroeulOuwconception,*birth,
' with (ch. 2, V. I) “ There was iti thO'days ctf>Herod, the kui$c£
*Jude#,”Sdc. ; and Mosheua, though be speaksdoubtfully as,to:the
precise time when u the Skin of Righteousness lint shone ufgto the
world,”—says, u that Which appears most probable Is*ihafe&bap-
pened about h year and six months before the death of Henad»”
' So all authorities agree ife placing the birth of Jesus before the
death of Herfcd. Now it is certain that the oonsus of Cyrepias was
neither made under Herdd nor during the reign of Arckelau#, ,hig
successor; for at that time Cyrenius was not yet governor of£yiia»
•—that office being filled during the last years of Herod’s reignby
^enrius Saturtinus, and afterwards by Qjiintilies Varus; nor was
it till many years after the death of Herod that Cyreniasbad th?
govemrneht of Syria. It was tbs* magistrate who made th£ cen­
sus,—as observed by JoSephtos (bk. 18, ch« 1) u Now Cyremo% a
Roman Senator, and one who had gone through aU the magisfrar
dues,and had passed through them tilt he hod been consul*apd one
who OnOther accounts! was of greatdigmty, came at thistime fofo
Syria (that is, after the banishment of Archelaus, and more than
ten years after the death of Herod) with a few others,*—being fent
by Cfeesar to be a judge of that nation,«ad to take an mcmtnlgftheir
substance.*' That census most, therefore, have been taken more
than ten years after the period when, according to Matthew and
Luke, Jesus was born; nay* Luke distinctly says (eh. 2, v. 1, $ 3,
4,5,) “ That a decree went out from Cfissar Augustus,that all the
world should J>etaxed. This tossing was first made when Gyretfins
wasgovernor of Syria. That ail went to be taxed, every nfte into
his Own city. And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the
city of Nazareth, into Judes, unto the city of David, which is ^&Ued
Bethlehem, (because he was of the house and lineage of David),
to be taxed with Mary his espoused wife,, being great with chiid /”
Well might Schmidt remark, that any attempt to make Luke’s ac­
count of the census harmonise with chronology, is to honor the
Evangelist too milch, Whohas evidently desired to transport Maiy
to Bethlehem ; and that having accomplished that, he left dates and
facts to arrange themselves as best they might. It is probable
Dr. Mosheim never noticed this sHght chronologicalerrorof‘ten or
* a dozen yearsmade by the inspired Luke,or he would, perhaps,have
Digitized by Google
21*
where we read that “ The children of Israel slew of the Syrians an
hundred thousand footmen in one day ; and a wall fell upon twenty
and seven thousand of the men that were left/1the worthy Doctor
relieved IttorffW ÌsA ritìg/te * tl&t'the whrÌ‘jÌalftwas
a m istra n sla te,th a t dvhrd&r d t ¿¡¡kijksion would* pi ftttflt, or
a burning wind better still, as the number twenty and seven thou*
sand tòs enbrmou#!” Surely,itis pitiftfl that,no cominiAtrtAr w il
step forward and do something for poor Luke, and waU-uphis repu­
tation. It is true, Tertultfan deals with the matter mànfully, and
insists upon giving quite a new reading to the text—attributes the
census to Saturninus, putting into the text either his name, or that
of Quintilius Varus,—which, it muèt be owned, is a summary
mode bfdealing with difficulties—dicing off a moiety of inspiration,
as monarchs in the East do mens' heads when they hinder their
policy, or disturb their1repòse. ‘ It is clear, that such a mod? of
dealing with inspired writings may be locally convenient, but mart
be generally pernicious in its consequences,—and to a reflecting
mind, it seems odd that men should so pertinaciously look for aH
truth, where already has been discovered so much of error.
It is dear, therefore, from what has been advanced (and mudi
more might be added), that the account given by Luke of thè
reasons which induced Joseph and Mary to Journey to Bethlehem
while the latter was pregnant, cannot be true ; and it seems likely,
as Strauss observes—uthat Luke, or somebody else, was anxious
that the character of Jesus should in all respects be in harmony
with the prophecy, anddetermined to find reasons why Mary should
be at Bethleham when Jesus was bora ; which reasons he advan*
ced with the more boldness, as be had a very confused idea of the
politicalstate ofthe times,and was entirely ignorantofthe numerous
difficulties inherent to that combination. Thus (adds Strauss) we
have not a term fixed for the date of the birth of Christ, nor an
explanation of the cause which led to his birth at Jerusalem. If
then, we arejustified in saying no other reasons can be found than
those furnished by Luke—that we should admit Jesus was bora at
Bethlehem—we have not absolutely a singleguarantee that Bethlehem
was theplace ofhis birth”
London : H. Hethermgton ; A. Heywood, Maochwter ; and all Bookseller^
' J. Taylor, Printer, 39, Sfflallbrook Street, Birmingham. • ‘
Digitized
:ed by Cj O C K ^ Ic
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
AS A HUMAN USING,
DISPROVED!
BIT IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES Off LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS.
L etter 27. w eekly . . O ne P enny.
“ I amtheLordthy God, the Holy One of Israel. Beforemetherewasno
Godformed,neithershalltherebe afterme. J,even7, amthe Lord,andbeside«
methereis noSaviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 8,10,11.
C hristians, ------------
The most stiff believers in the aetual existence of Jesus, called
Nazareno, and bom in Bethlehem, according to gospel, must now
have strange misgivings, feel much puzzled, and shake the head as
between little hope and giant despair, however, at first, they may
have smiled at our attempt to disabuse the human mind of a most
pernicious error. There are strong indications of a tremblement de
ierre in the Christian world, and all who have hitherto stood with
the fatal confidence of ignorance upon the unexamined evidence
urged in proofof the reality of Jesus, feel the ground rock beneath
their feet—the rent having, at last9reached the foundation!
It has been seen that the writings of the early Christian Saint9
and Fathers were lamentably deficient in troth, that they forged
upon principle and deceived by system—nay, worse yet than mere
forgere and deceivers, for some of them did not hesitate first to
manufacture the lie, and afterwards coolly charge it upon their
opponents! It has been seen that by for the larger number of Pa­
gan historians either never heard of Jesus, and his extraordinary
works, or what is almost equally fatal to the vulgar belief, thought
it a trumped-up affair,and,therefore, the sectcalled Christian was so
wretchedly contemptible as tobe unworthy of notice—while thefew
writers of consequence who condescended to notice them, wrote in
Digitized by Google
218
a most disparaging and off-hand manner, nuiny^df ffleflHhdtiftiBg
their notice in a single line; which kind of treatment vtataH iduflfy
have been so uniform, had the followers or disciffles'of J&tfs
sessed any weight m the moral scale, or been, in short, ¿tetoof
character and influence! It has been seen that those authors Of
acknowledgedreputation and ability, as Hierocles, Porphyrins, and
Cefeus, who wrote vigorously ifi opposition to Chtistihfiity, were
most shamefully treated by its supporters, their writings disfigured,
and) in all possible cases, most religiously destroyed—whereas, afl
writings in defence of Christianity were as religiously preserved;
and so completely successful were they (the^ChristiUns)in 4fe vtork
of destruction, that not long after Constantine, men of taste 'and
learning who sought for truth, were compelled to grope fofr it'amid
that darkness theChristian priests had wilfully created. It hasbeen
seen that the believers in Jesus are left without a single classic
authority—without one author who writes distinctly, and in a there
tan be no mistake manner respecting him; they do not, in troth,
furnish a single argument, if not against the Christians-*^*#?; hot
even a peg to hang an argument upon! It has been seen thattfce
gospel writers were as ignorant about the when and the where, the
time and the place, in short, all the circumstances respecting the in*
fancy of Jesus, as the meanest country bumpkin; that Luke's
account of the birth, and the reasons which carried Joseph and
Mary (then pregnant with Jesus) to Bethlehem, is a huge blunder,
a wretched attempt at reconcilement between the made-up character
of Jesus and chronologic fact; while Mosheim, who has stupidly
followed in the wake of the inspired blunderer, has been theologi-*
cally belwethered into a ditch of inextricable confusion and afc
surdity, affording another to be added to the many lamentable
specimens of the learnedly imbecile, who halfblinded in the fog of
fable, and terrified by childish superstitions,areoccupied by ckatetmx
en espagne, or castles in thefog, and lend theirfine talents to delusion
and imposture! It has been seen, finally, that the Christian cause
can derive no support from Josephus—nay, the arrow said to have
been plucked from the Jewish historian's quiver, and used by the
Christians, was their own poisoned barb, which has mortally*
wounded themselves by a kind of re-hound. Indeed, making dear
to the world that Josephus did not write the passage in question,
is to drive the last nail into the coffin of Christianity! To make
tins like “ the handwriting on the wall” another paragraph or two
will be devoted to it.
Digitized by Google
219
passagergivea in the last number is thé alpha and
{poqgfhqfe&eqmlevident* in favor of the actual existence of the
man Jesus ; this we have already shewn in part, and the truth will
appear more and more luminous as we proceed ; but that cannot
be dignified by the name “ evidence,” which has been inoontrover-
tibly pppyed a fogged interpolation, Alliamiliar with Jewish his­
tory kupw that Jpsephus flourished» açd was held in muchhonor, at
the epoch Jesus is said to have lived ; he, moreover, took a very
active part in the political and religious transactions of his times;
it is»,therefore, quite inconceivable that a man called Jesus could
have distinguished himself in so peculiar and striking a manner
as Jesus is.represented to have done, without receiving from Jo­
sephus a special notice,—it is inconceivable, we say, that Jose­
phus should have faded to mention him—for he, of. all men then
living, must have felt interested in,andbeenbest acquainted with,all
thatqonoegnedthe honor,fidelity,and religion oftheJewish nation—
yet, not so much, as a single word about a man-god, prophet, or
mareman, is to be found in bis voluminous work, save the one
that has been thrust in neck and heels hy some clumsy well-wisher
to Christianity. Never was there a more audacious and disgusting
forgery—a more base, fraudulent, and designing trick to serve an
end, without even the poor apology of cleverness—not even the re­
deeming feature of talent to render more tolerable its odious face—
and the blockhead who sopalpably lied, standsrecorded as the most
blockish of the would-be imposera upon the credulity of mankind.
Verily, it is new doth, or anew rag, in an old garment—for it is
pot only different in style, butthe color, and what may be called the
texture of the passage marksitpatch-work/ The differencebetween
the paltriest mosaic and the purest gold is not more complete and
striking, than the branded passage in Josephus compared with the
true history. In a word, it is the neplus ultra of literary bungling
and sneaking criminality.
It is amaring and amusing with what cool impudence the same
worthies, who,when the passage was considered genuine,lauded to
tbe skies the truthfulness and high historic reputation of Josephus,
making him a very angel of light, and cracking up his authority as
irresistible,have^irow^^djsiuce the lie wasdeteoted,as with a magic
wand, at once transforming their angel of light into a demon of
dfi^rhvessj This is not to be wondered at; it is simply carious
and excessively amusing, for they knew their all was staked, as
regarded external evidence in favor of Jesus, upon his testimony;
Digitized by Google
thçy knew* besides, that if Josephus did not béâr *teëtiinony for
theno^he must against them,as the silence of s6 ablfe,WfelP^hfofltoed,
and generally impartial historian as Josephus, rrltfst'épéèdllÿ^péîlsy
the faith in Jesus, and ultimately annihilate it!—for, Wërépfeat,
it is inçredible, and quite inadmissible, that an incàrnfcti Gfoti7
, a
prophet, or mere man, should have perforaied ôrië tithe'6f Miat is
related in gospel history of Jesus—performed too uhtiebHh&^ery
nose of Josephus, without his deigning so muet astégivè it'ttCor­
ner in his history ! ' **■'* f
This argument receives additional force frorti thé ébinildëiUtion
that Josephus has specially mentioned John the Baptôét^iïïÀikipas­
sage has never for once been suspected as not genu&iej nôt U whis­
per has been raised against its authenticity—becausë, rtëîtherlu the
account itself, the manner of it, nor in the relationshipWhich it
holds to the rest of the history, is there any thing to chaUërigeSus­
picion. The passage runs thus, “ Now, some of the JeWôthought
that the destruction of Herod's army came from God,and that very
justly as a punishment, against John that was called thé Baiptist;
for Herod slew him who was a good man, and cortitt&ndèd the
Jews to exercise virtue, both as to righteousness towards One ano­
ther, and piety towards God, and so to come to baptism ; for that
the washing [with water] would be acceptable to him if they made
of it, not in order to the putting away [or the remission] of èome
Bins [only], but for the purification ofthe body, supposing still that
the soul was thoroughly purified beforehand by righteousness.
Now when many others came in crowds against him, for they
were greatly moved [or pleased] by hearing his words, Herod who
feared lest the great influence John had over the people, might put
it into his power and inclination to raise a rebellion (for they seemed
ready to do any thing he should advise), thought it best by putting
him to death, to prevent any mischiefhe might causé,and notbring
himselfinto difficulties by sparing a man who might make him re­
pent of it when it should be too late. Accordingly, he Was sent a
prisoner, out of Herod's suspicious temper, tb Macherus, the castle
I before mentioned, and was there put to death. Now, the Jews
had an opinion, that the destruction of this army Was sent as a
punishment upon Herod, and a mark of God's displeasure against
him."
Before taking final leave ofJosephus and the Christian interpola­
tion—as we are determined there shall be no mistake—We here re­
state in the plainest possible English, that although Josephus lived
Digitized by Google
221
at the time Christ is said to have existed, the name of Jesus is not
opcementioned by him in any of his writings-—therefore, let every
-reader understand, that to say—as ill-informêd people do—‘that
Josephus wrote about Jesus Christ, is to utter falsehood,—the dame
nearer having appeared in his history of the Jews, till it was smug­
gled there most clumsily in an edition edited by Bishop Wàrburton.
This crushing fact, we challenge the whole religious world to a dis­
proofo£ which, if they are not in a condition to furnish^ it Must
appear, that whoever declares the Jewish historian has men­
tioned the existence of Jesus Christ, asserts an unconscious or a
deliberate falsehood, '
• It now remains to brash away a few more cobweb assertions
about the authority of Tacitus, urged by one of the most noted and
pure minded of modem sceptics, who, it was mentioned in the last.
Letter, seemed to be on the right road in his reflections upon the
subject, bat had most unaccountably stopped short in his career. .
*When hk opponent,Mr. Origen Bacheler assertsthe diyine nature
of Christianity on the ground that it “ succeeded in effecting a
revolution in the opinions and manners of the civilized world, to
which there is no parallel in the history of mankind and urgies in
confirmation of this view, that Tacitus about A. D. speaking of
Christianity says, “ This pernicious superstition,.though checked
for awhile, broke out again, and spread not only over Judea, but
reached the city of Rome. At first, they only were apprehended
who confessed themselves to be of that sect ; afterwards' a vast
multitudewere discovered and cruelly punished.” Mr. R. D.Owen,
In his reply to the above,observes, “ Watson and Leslie set about
proving the existence of Moses and Jesus. I have never denied
either; but, J confess9lam surprised to find theproofs so scanty/”
adding in a note, “ Tacitus’s famous passage appears to me, how­
ever, sufficient evidence of the existence ofJesus.” :
There is no accounting for mental hallucinations, even in first­
rate minds; but, really it is astonishing, that so bold and generally
accurate an investigator should have fallen into the pit so
warily dug for him by his opponent ; though, it must be confessed,
that it was not necessary for his then argument to disprove the ex­
istence ofJesus, as the discussion turned upon the authenticity of
the Scriptures—so that the existence ofJesus was onlytouched upon
en passant; otherwise, his surprise at finding the proofs so scanty,
would probably have ended in the full conviction, not only of their
Digitized by Google
223
eeantmess, bat that, in reality, the testimony of Tacitqs, which to
him is sufficient evidence of the .existence of Jesus, proved nojthipg,
more than the existence at a certain period after the¿opposed death
of Christ in Rome, and other places, a.number of pepple palling,
themselves Christians. If this is all the proof that pan be furnished
in fáyor of the actuality of the man Jesns, it is scanty indeed ! and
has been so completely torn to shreds in this work, that we arp
convinced, when it is generally read, all will at onpe acknow*
ledge how glaring is this error, which eyidently has hitherto tmain­
tained its ground from paucity ofinformation^and a misunderstand^
ing of the passage in question. But, in fact, Mr. Owen’s own repfy
to himselfrenders superfluous any further remark on our part with
Aspect to the evidence furnished by Tacitus, Suetonius, and th®
rest; for in the very next page in which he says “ be is surprised to
find theproofs so scanty, but that the famous passage in Tacitus isf.
however, sufficient evidence for him of the actual existence of Jesns,
he adds, “ Now what does ail this amount to ? Simply to this—that
in the reigns of Claudius and Nero, a sept existed called Christians*
Who denies this ? Not I for one.” Nor do we deny it; we>
do not deny that a sect called Christians existed in Rome under
Claudius, Nero, or Tiberius; which, in good truth, is all the evi­
dence amounts to. Then how, in the name of wonder,can evidencia
that only proves the existence of the Christian sect, be sufficient
evidence for a flrst-rate sceptic of the existence of the man Jesus P
Shade of Aristotle, hover o’er and enlighten us! for this kind of
reasoning passeth Our understanding \ Here then is the thread, of
hair like tenuity, by which the sword of reason is suspended over
the neck offolly; here are all the immense heaps of proofof which
theologians so loudly boast, dwindled down to the scanty passage
in Tacitus, which is left alone in its glory to bear the brunt of the
battle; when, lo ! and behold! upon a little investigation, tins re­
nowned Christian pivot,thepoint cardinal,on which hinged t^e exis­
tence of Jesus, and left first-rate scepticism dumbfoundered, ia
discovered to be a pointe matbematique, haying neither length,
breadth, nor thickness—a shadowy unrealmockery ofproof,ending,
in a demonstration, not that Jesus Christ, spoken of in the gospels,
was a bona fide individual, or even had more than an ideal or
imaginary existence; but that one Christ, or a certain Christ, lived
somewhere—nooneknowswhere;did—no one seemstoknow what;
said-—
what no one seams to have taken the slightest pains either to
Digitized by Google
223
Keai",collect,or understand. All the proofamountingsimply to this,
tSlat;ih 'the reigh§ of Claudius and Nero existed a sect called Chris­
tians', &c. This is all the much lauded evidence proves, and it is
almost'needless for us to reiterate that the external evidence of such
inters is miserablydefective, hay,the two unique on whom all Chris­
tians ndainly rely, Suetonius and Tacitus, balance each other,as our
readers cannot have forgotten that Suetonius speaks of a certain
Christ practising sedition at Rome during the reign of Claudius—
white Tacitus writes of one Christ, put to death during the reign of
Tltieriusj by Pontius Pilate the Procurator. We may believe one
df these accounts, both, or neither; the latter will be by far tha
easiest, and certainly the safest course—though it is exceedingly
possible, that ther,e being so many men calling themselves theChrist
during these and succeeding reigns, Suetonius wrote about one,
Tacitus another, and somebody else a third, and so on; but
here it may be useful to mention, that the account in Tacitus is
preferredby the Christians, as it harmonizes with the legend—which
legend, as shewn in the early numbers of this work, is a solar
fable. So much for the external evidence furnished by Tacitus,
Suetonius, Plinius, et hocgenus omne.
'Those who still maintain the existence of Jesus, thus beaten off
Pagan, musttake refuge on Christian ground,cling to the gospelhis*
tory, and the writings of the saints; the hollowness of the latter
have been sufficiently exposed to prevent any reasoning mind from
reposing confidence in them, except when their relations do not
outrage probability, or are in harmony with other external eviden­
ces, and the general operations or modes of nature; forthescanda­
lous manner in which the early Christians endeavoured to crush
all opposition, by persecution and bare-faced fraud, must render
very suspicious and of doubtful value any gospels they judged to
be true. .
Bishop Watson complains that Islamism was established by
the sword, as though he forgot, or never knew, that it was the
sword established and maintained the authority of the early Chris­
tian Church. The famous edict of the emperor Constantine issued
against the Heretics (it has been remarked by a modern author)
was in the same century in which the books of the New Testament
were declaredcanonical. Ifthecouncilwhichso declaredthem shared
the common character of the age, it was composed of bishops, who
exhibited to their flocks the contagious exampleofarrogance,luxury,
Digitized by Google
224
effeminacy, animosity, strife, with other vices too numerousto mem»
tion. A fine assemblage of holy men, truly!—admirably qualified
to choose the true gospels, and carefully separate them from heaps of
spurious trash and apocryphal books with which the age abounded.
Mosheim observes that in the fourth century, " the monstrous error
was almost universally adopted; that errors in religion, when main­
tained and adhered to after •proper admonition,were punishable with
civilpenalties and corporaltortures: multitudes '(says the same his­
torian) were drawn into the profession of Christianity, not by the
power ofconviction and argument, but by theprospect ofgain, and the
fear of punishment” Again, had the Saracens been infected with
the same odious spirit of persecution that possessed the Crusaders,
there would not, perhaps, have remained a single Christian in that
part ofthe world (Asia). But, though these Infidels were charge­
able with various crimes, aud had frequently treated the Christians
in a rigorous and injurious manner, yet they looked with horror on
those scenes of persecution which the Latins exhibited as the ex­
ploits of heroic piety, and considered it as the highest and most
atrocious mark of cruelty and injustice, to force unhappy men, by
fire and sword, to abandon their religious principles—orto put them to
death, merely because they refused to change their opinions. W e
ask, is it to such monsters in human shape as these early Chris­
tians, we are to look for authentic history ?—men more cruel and
lnstful of blood than the Infidels and uncultivated Saracens, who
looked with carnage and horror on scenes of persecution which the
cruelly vindictive fanaticism of Christians had given birth to, when,
like hungry Tigers in their fierce rage, they covered the fertile
fields ofAsia with the blood and bones of millions; and oh! diaboli­
cal superstition! when
, Earth trembled as the smoke
' Of thy revenge ascended up toheaven, •
' Blotting the constellations j and the cries
Of millions, butchered in sweet confidence
And unsuspecting peace, even when the bonds
Ofsafety were confirmed, by wordy oaths
Sworn in thename ofChristy rung through the land,
Whilst innocent babes writhed on thy stubborn spear,
And thou did’st laugh to hear the mother's shriek
Of maniac gladness as the sacred steel
Felt cold in her tom entrails!!
Londou : H. Hetherington; A. Heywood, Manchester; and all Booksellers.
J. Taylor, Printer, 29, Sraallbrook Street, Birmingham.
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
, AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS.
L etter 28. w eekly. O ne P enny.
“ I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel. Before me there was no
God formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and besides
me there is no Saviour.”—I s a ia h XLIII. 3,10, 11.
C hristians, ------------
A careful and unprejudiced reading of Biblical history, together
with the Talmudic, or traditional writings of the Jews, would
speedily disabuse all minds, capable of grasping the true meaning of
the texts, ofthose pernicious errorswhich now prevail,as to the real
character of those books, and as to the sources and support of the
opinions,religious and political,held by the Jews themselves, before
and since the captivity; errorspregnantwith mischief, which check
the free current of thought, choking up by an unreasoning bigotry
the source oftruth, and by the weight of an odious moral tyranny,
deprive the human mind of that elastic spring which is its best
preservative against religious and political corruption.
The researches of Schoettgenius are of great value, and may be
recommended as containing the most complete account of the texts
which have been interpreted by tiie ancient Rabbis, or Jewish
doctors, concerningthe Messiah' (the anointed), who was so long and
ardently expected to appear on earth, and restore to even more
than their pristine splendour, the iallen glories of the Children of
Israel; when that state of things, called in popular language,
Christ's?Kingdom, the Kingdom of God9 or the Kingdom of Heaven,
would be established, and righteousness rule over all the«earth.
There is fro people of whom we have any records, who have
Digitized by Google
226
«offered *o mnch for conscience sake as the Jewish; no people
whose religions opinions hare been so foully abused, without being
understood; none whohave so completely earnedby a stubbornadhe­
rence to the faith andthe law of theirfathers—the hate and opprobi-
um offrantic bigotry. Literally they have had “ coals of fire heaped
upon theirheadsand thereare notafew Christiansofthenineteenth
century, who would willingly, to use Miltonic phraseology, rekin­
dle the torch of persecution, by the almost expiring embers of
fanaticism.
The excessive ignorance that prevailed, and still prevails, as to
Jewish character, habits, and opinions—their inodes of feeling and
modes of writing, so peculiar and so strictly national—their historic
records, which stand out or apart from all others as the reflex of
the mind of a people who were and are an isolation amid the
crowd of humanity, is at the root of such senseless injustice.
It may seem strange, but it is unquestionably true, that little as
is known of Egyptian or Indian polity and religious character—still
lessisreally understood ofthe polity andreligious conceptions,hopes,
and aspirations of the chosen people of God (as they delight to style
themselves); nay, among the many who rail against the Jews, as a
stiffnecked race, obstinate unbelievers, and crucifiers of the living
God (!)—few, indeed, have the most distant idea why the Jews re­
fused at first to believe that one Jesus of Nazareth was the Christ,
or anointed king, promised by God himself, through the mouths of
the prophets, to the descendants of Israel; or why it is, after all
that has been written for their conversion—after all the cruel per­
secutions which the Christian world, to its shame, has for ages
inflicted upon that unhappy race—they still strenuously resist the
Jesus of the gospels, and still deny that such a man (even though
his actuality be admitted) was the promised Messiah, who should
be (Zech. 14, v. 9) “ the Lord and long over all the earth; in that
day when there shall be one Lord, and his name one.” Who
should “ bring them (chap. 8, v. 8), and they should dwell in the
midst ofJerusalem; and they should be his people, and he their
God, in truth and in righteousness.”
The bigot nation, as the bigot individual, is either the crouching
slave, or the intolerable tyrant!—enduring, nay kissing, the rod
that chastiseth, or inflicting stripes : in both conditions bigotry is
the frantic hater of all it will not or cannot comprehend. Let the
bigot stand in all his native nakedness—he is the cur licking the
hand of its punisher.. Arm him to the teeth in authority—there is
Digitized by Google
227
no vice, no cruelty, he ia incapable of. His appetite for vengeance
is only whetted by its gratification; and like the tiger, after tasting
blood, becomes more fierce and ungovernable !
That the Jewish nation was a proud nation, swallowed up in
vanity, their own literature abundantly proves; that they were and
are the dupes of appearances, shadowy, aerial conceptions, having
their source in national pride, no enlightened Jew will deny; and
it must be admitted that their shamefully credulous ignorance, love
of the marvellous, and all that flattered or soothed their fatal and
most fallacious hope ofuniversal dominion,has only been surpassed
by the still more fatally credulous ignorance of the Christian world.
The terms Jew and credulous man have been for ages synony­
mous, convertible terms, in the nations called civilized; yet have
those who stigmatized them thus, as far outstripped them in credu­
lity and the love of persecution, as the light wing of the swallow
outstrips the dull and heavy plumage of the raven.
That it is better to do even good with a reason than without one,
has passed into a proverb; but bigots set this and all other wise
maxims at defiance; and therefore it is that nine-tenths of the
Christian world hate theJews, without a reason, or caring to search
,for one,—unless hating a Jew because he is a Jew, can be consi­
dered a reason; for, though it is evident the prime cause why the
Jews are stigmatized as “ an accursed race, an abomination9and a
pest upon Gods earth” is, their rejection of Jesus as the Messiah,
and the idle tale about the supposed crucifixion of the Christ; yet
this harsh spirit has not been displayed towards them after an
examination of their reasons for their faith, but in obedience to.
bigot passion.
The stem and uncompromising manner in which, from the first,
theyrejectedthefictionalhistoryoftheNazarene,wascalled,asalldis­
belief is, obstinacy and stiffneckedness; the generally credulous,
but in this particular, firmly incredulous Jews, were by Christian
accusers hunted over the face of the earth; treated like wild boars,
held at bay by the spears of their pursuers. Their traditions were
scorned; the voice of prophecy, which they believed was contained
in their sacred histories, was despised and set at nought; whilst,
scattered abroad by lawless authority—carried before the breath of
persecution, like sand in the desert blast; despised of the nations j
their name a bye-word ; their untold sufferings the theme of demo­
niac laughter and derision—this people furnished the world's choi-r
cest memorial—its best proofof superstition's horrors—
Digitized by Google
228
Foal superstition ! howsoever disguised— - - ..
• Idol, saint, virgin, prophet, orescent, cross,
For whatsoever symbol thou art prized, ^
Thou sacerdotal gain, but general loss !
Whofrom trueworship'sgold can separatethy drossP
The Jewish writings, do not furnish finer examples of philoso­
phy than many others called profane; but no others contain such
numerous examples of humanity, seen in its various phases, and
under every variety of aspect. We may regret, with Volney, that
the mind of man should be enclosed within such narrow bounda­
ries,and be obliged to content itself with what,in a universalsense,
must be considered as the mere scrap of knowledge, contained in
Jewish literature; but the fact, however it may be lamented, is yet
a fact, that we have no histories of nations, but merely detached
isolated accounts of'this or that people; which paucity of infor­
mation, as regards the universal condition of humanity, fosters
local and most pernicious prejudices, which a more enlarged view
would speedily destroy.
Hennel remarks, “ It is not surprising to find in the poetic wri­
tings of the Old Testament, extravagant descriptions of a .kingdom
of Israel, which should cover the earth—andof a great prince^ who
should restore the throne of David. The beautiful anticipations
which, under various forms, have existed in nearly all the nations,
of the future perfection of the earth, were in the minds of the Jews
blended in a peculiar mannerwith thehopes and fortunes ofIsrael;
on this subject each prophet or poet indulged in his own fancies—*
but one prevalent notion seems to have been, that this kingdom
would be established, and their final triumph over the nations effect
ted—not so much by military means, in which they were obviously
deficient, as by some specialintervention oftheir protector, the God
of Israel.” Now, it is certainly not surprising, that a people with
such strong passions, and poetically religious temperament, after
ruling many nations—tasting the sweets of an almost unresisted
authority for more than 800 years,should, in their decline, or after
their fall, sigh for the fallen glories of Israel, and long for the “ yet
a little while” when the Lord of Hosts would (Haggai 2, v. 6, 7,)
“ shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land;
and shake all the nations, and thedesire of all nations should come,
and fill the house of Israel with his g lo r y —“ When (Zech. 14,
v. 3) the Lord should go forth and fight against those nations, as
when he fought in the day of battlefor the vanity of nations
Digitized by Google
229
is no less strong and inveterate, than the vanity of individuals,
which is generally in the ratio of ignorance; and though it may
be humiliated, it cannot be destroyed; nay, it seems to gather
strength from its very weakness,—and, like the struggling gladiator,
whose blood flows from no mortalpart,will gain a new energy with
each succeeding wound,—as we commonly see nations and indivi­
duals increase in pride, amid the wreck of theirfortunes. Itcannot,
therefore, be matterof vmprise, thattheJews shouldhave cherished
the hope of a Saviour, a political Messiah, who should reign over
Israel, and restore their nation to its wonted lustre-—which delusive
idea pervades all their writings front the era of the Babylonish
captivity: and, as remarked by Hennell—great were their trans­
ports “ when Cyras permitted the small remnant of pure Jews to
re-oocupy their own land, and to re-build their temple and city,
as their most extravagant hopes seemed about to be realized. A
new era opened upon them, and they were in the way to take rank
among the nations; and if this could be attained, out ofa state of
general servitude, a patriotic Jew might easily believe his nation
destined in the end, to eclipse Egypt and Assyria.”
The idea whieh to-day would seem preposterous and absnrd to
the nations of Europe—if fallen under the yoke of slavery—of a
deliverer coming in power and glory “ to (Isaiah 14, v. 2) take them
captive, whose captives they were,” to the Jews, who lived after the
captivity, was both soothing and credible; it outraged not their
idea of the possible; for with them, all things were possible to Je­
hovah, who could miraculously deliver his chosen people out of the
hands of their enemies, and pluck them by his divine will from the
furnace of affliction—a brand not consumed by the fire; for, as
observed by Strauss,* “ the Hebrew people, during the whole course
of their political existence,never had a clear idea of history; their
historic books, the most recent, those of Maccabees, for example,
and even the works of Josephus, are not free from marvellous and
most extravagant recitals. In fact, there are no ideas clearly his­
toric among a people who comprehend not the indissolubility of the
chain of finite causes, and the impossibility of miracles.” Now,
we ¿now that all the Jewish books abound in recitals, which, if
strictly true, were clearly miraculous,—thus breaking to pieces
the chain of finite causes; which impossible things were firmly
believed in, before and after the decline of Jewish authority; but
• Introduction to The Life of Jeans.
Digitized by Google
230
such crude and idle tales were never so anxiously welcomed, or
devoured with such avidity, as after the captivity; fbr then, as it
was natural with a vainglorious, credulous, and superstitious m ul­
titude, everything that strengthened the prevailing idea that the
temple should be re-built with more than its ancient splendor, by
the appearance of an earthly king, who should make (Haggai 1,
v. 9) “ the glory of the latter house greater than of the former/*
was held as true by a people who had “ no ideas clearly historic
whose limited intelligence permitted them not to see “ theimpossi­
bility ofmiracles/*
The Jews seem rather to have been corrupted than improved by
their bondage in Babylon; for, before their intercourse with the
Mother ofHarlots, they seem to have held much juster notions of
things, than after; for, before the captivity, we hear nothingabout
the nature of Gods, nor the idea of the immortality of the soul;
which dogmas the Jews evidently picked up in Babylon, without
fully comprehending them, that is, they did not grasp the precise
ideas held on such subjects by the ancientphilosophers and mystics
ofthe East. The Bible wears evident marks of the liberties taken
with it subsequent to that era; for the posterior Jews, infected with
Gnosticism, wished, and did not fail to incorporate their mystical
jargon with the anterior history. The devil is the properly of the
modem Jews; for those who lived prior to the captivity, believed
neither in a devil, nor have we reason to believe they had any con­
ception that the soul was immortal. The soul was supposed to
perish with the body; or, rather, the soul or vital manifestations
were supposed to be matter, in the performance of its functions;
or, viewed in its various relations and conditions, merely a modifi­
cation ofthe eternally active power inherent in matter.
Their opinions upon matter and spirit seemed, in fact, the exact
counterpart of those held by the learned among the ancient Egyp­
tians, who, according to Aristotle, thought matter the first princi­
ple ofall things, and that the present forma arose out of an eternal
chaos, which,prior to creation, contained in a state of darkness, all
the materials of future beings ; which is not a hairsbreadth from
the opinions of the famous Spinosa, who held that the soul, or
thinking principle, in man and brutes, was but an attribute of the
sole substance called matter, which eternally produces endless
combinations ofitself; while the more modem and hardly less fa­
mous Dr. Priestly, in his work on Matter and Spirit, shews that
Digitized by Google
231
the last line of the text (Gen- 2, v. 19) “ And out of the ground
the Lord God formed every beast ofthe field, and every fowl of the
air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them,
and whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the
name thereof;’1 should run thus, “ And whatsoever Adam called
every living soul,’& c.:the Hebrew, interpreted by textual doctors,
creature, really meaning soul, that is, substance performing its func­
tions: hence the expressions, “ and man became a living soul; they
slew a hundred thousand souls; they left not a soul to breathe,”& c.;
and it is only after thecaptivity we hear of devils, angels, and souls*
distinct from substance.
. It is true, we find in 1st Chron. 21, -v. 1, that “ Satan stood up .
against Israel, and provoked David to number Israelwhich is
the first time the name Satan appears in the Old Testament. As
justly observed by a modem writer,* “ The absence of this person­
age from the writings prior to the captivity, seems to prove that
the Jews, in their intercourse with the Babylonians, imbibed a part
of their theology, which inculcated the existence of two principles,
under the names of Ormuzd and Ahrimanes. It is evident that
the author of the Chronicles attributes to the bad spirit the act
which the author of Samuel attributes to the good; for, in 2nd Sam.
24, v. 1, we read, ‘And again the anger of the Lord was kindled
against Israel, and he moved David against them to say, Go, num­
ber Israel and Judah/ The writer in the Chronicles was doubt­
less scandalised at the Deity punishing a sin which he hadjust be­
fore provoked David to commit,” The same writer adds, “ The
word in Psalm 9, v. 6, need not be interpreted of any malignant
spirit, but it may stand for adversary generally. The date of Job,
where the word occurs three or four times, is unknown/’
With their knowledge of the dogma of immortal souls, the Jews
got the first glimpse of the Devil; so, taking the two together,it is
exceedingly doubtfulwhether they were much the gainers thereby;
but the fact is established, that the old Jews had no notion either
of the Devil or the immortality of the soul, till the mystical philo­
sophers, called Gnostics, taught them their sublime dreamery and
devilry, some five or six hundred years before the Christian era;
and it appears from Mosheim, that their mystical philosophy created
much evil about the time that it, to him, appeared mostprobable
the Saviour appeared; for he observes, “ no philosophy was so de-
• See article Old Testament, in Christian Reformer, No. 44. 1ST
Digitized by Google
232
trimental to the Christian religion, as that frhibh Wasstyled'gjiasty
or science, L e.the way to the 4riie knoWlMdge'af’tlut D'eitif; rap
which we have above called the oriental doctrine, in order to distin­
guish itfrom the Grecian philosophy/' - Theworthy doctor seemed,
indeed, disposed to be harsh, and halfangry with these Gnostics’
notions ofJesus Christ, which he calls itnftiotfs «and extjpvggrat ;
but to our mind, their notions about Jesus, as faras tl^y^ajpbe
understood, are the most rational possible—perhaps, thatis because
they exactly correspond with our own ; for, according to M odiap,
they denied his deity, and they refected his humanity, upon the sup­
position that every thing concrete and corporeal is, in itself, essen-»
tially and intrinsically evil. “ From hence (continues the doctor),
the greatest partof the Gnostics denied that Christ was clothed with
a real body, or that he suffered really for the sake of mankind, the
pains and sorrows which he is said to have sustained, in the sagaad
history.” Now, as it is clear that Christ, if he lived at all, had a
body, and it is equally clear that a body is a real body*
*
—for a/body
not real, would be nobody at ah—and as the Gnostics’ declaredjust
after Jesus is said to bave lived and died, that “ he was not clothed
with a real body,” why logic would be beggared to prove better
that we entirely agree with the Gnostics ; for if Jesus neither had a
reed body nor really suffered on the cross, or anywhere else, for the
sake of mankind—ifhewereneither divine nor human—neither deity
nor humanity—what in the name ofall the mystics at once was he ?
As to the senseless lunacy that the Gnostics have mingled with
this account of Christ, about his unreal body being the son of God,
pleroma, or habitation of the Everlasting Father, for the happiness
of miserable mortals, it may be safely averred, that none but the:
Everlasting Father can know what or where the said pleroma is ; op
how a body clothed in unrealness—that is, a body withoutd body-—
could besentforthe happiness ofmiserablemortals ! Moshehn codi-;
plains that they entertained unworthyideas, both of Christ’s person1
and offices ; whereas, to us it appears, that they held no ideas at à lf
ófhim, worthy or unworthy ; for how could they have any idea of»
a Christ, neither God nor man—neither with form, substance, color,
or attributes—a Christ, in short, who neither had a realbody, nor1
really suffered—nor really was anything, suffered anything, or did ■
anything—save in the imaginations of men !
London: H. Hethermgton ; A. Heywood, Manchester ; and all Booksellers.
• J. Taylor, Printer, 2&, Smallbrook Street, Birmingham. ‘
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE OF CHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IRRESISTIBLE EVIDENCE, IN A SERIES OF LETTERS,
FROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OP ALL DENOMINATIONS.
Letter 39. weekly. One Penny.
“ I am the Lord thy Odd, the Holy One of Israel* Before me there was no
€tod formed, neither shall there be after me. /, even /, am the Lord, and besides
the there is no Savfour.'*—IsAiah XLIII. 3,10,11.
C hristians, ------------
The mental condition of the Jews before and at the time so
manyfalse Christs appeared, was touched tipon in our last, where it
Was shewn that the Jews never fully comprehended the grand idea
that “ the chain offinite causes is indissoluble/’and “ theimpossibi­
lity ofmiracles/1which idea,it may be safely affirmed, must becon­
ceived by all people, before they can be guaranteed from political,
moral, or religious delusion.
The idea that a miracle is impossible, and involves in itan absur­
dity,because the eternal chain ofcausation cannotbe broken (there
being no exceptions to Nature’s mode of operation) has the experi­
ence ofthe wisest of all ages for its basis—thatinvaluable experience
which, though not admissible as logical demonstration, is a practi­
cally certain suppbrt, though not perfectly safe, is nevertheless
man’s safest teacher. Once allow the possibility of a miracle, and
that moment is reason and sound philosophy yoked to file car of
wild and visionary speculation. We hold, therefore, Strauss was
justified in his assertion that the Jews never had an historic age;
for that which is properly historic,is a relation of facts, which facts
harmonizewith experience,and admitno elementpurely imaginative.
Of this Jewish love of the marvellous, Dr. Prideaux,an able oom-
mentator, seems fully aware, for he observes, “ that the Jews, after
Digitized by Google
234
the return from the Babylonish captivity, to t^e time of our Sayio^r,
were mnch given to religious romances, as appeal from th$ apocry­
phal books still extant, which are of this sort?* Surely, it wbmd
be idle to look among a people given to religious romancings, for
clear ideas of what is truly historic; besides, all writers admit, it
was confusion worse confounded, that prevailed agn^ogjthe Jews,
from the Babylonish captivity up to the period ¿esusis said to
have lived; nor were they the vulgarmerely who were infected with
the love of the marvellous, and ready to swaUow every gross,and
idle fiction, for even Josephus, who had some pretensions to philo­
sophy, did not scruple to set forth, with all gravity, the most out­
rageous balderdash. Of Solomon, he says, “ God enabled him to
learn that skill which expels demons, which is a science beneficial
to man; he composed many incantations also, by which distem­
pers are alleviated, and he left behind him the manner of using
exorcisms, by which they drive away demons so that they never
return ; and this method of cure is of great force unto this day/’
Again, he says, speaking of one Eleazer, a caster out ofdevils, upon
the principles oí Solomon, “ He, Eleazer, when he would persuade
and demonstrate to the spectators that he held such a power, he *
set a little way off a cup or basin full of water, and commanded
the demon, as he went out of the man, to overturn it, and thereby
to let the spectators know that he had left the man; and when
this was done, the skill and wisdom of Solomon were shewn very
manifestly.” .
' One thing here is shewn manifestly enough, which is, that the
historian who wrote the above trash, whatever may be said of his
skill, had very little wisdom ; except, perhaps, that crooked, left­
handed wisdom, which Euripides ascribes to certain sages who
have two tongues ; the one to say the truth, the other that accom­
modates itselfto the times.” And if we suppose that Josephus was
wiser than he could afford to appear, the state of the multitude must
have been deplorable indeed to require the wagging of so accom­
modating a tongue; and it he believed what he himselfrelated, such,
beliefestablishes his character as a relater of truth, but destroys his
reputation for wisdom—either way, however, the Jewish people
must have been excessively credulous, which is all that concerns
our present argument.
' Corruption and credulity are rarely farasunder, and in thelimes
of which we treat, the Jewish people, drawn into the vortex of
superstition, were corrupt as they were credulous. Mosheim ob-
Digitized by Google
235
serves^ “ that the period in which our Saviour descended upon earth
mayjustly be styled the pacific age, if we compare it with the pre­
ceding times;'' if so, in the name of all that is vile, what must have
been the condition of the Jews in ages preceding, when, in this
“justy styled the pacific age/' the same writer tells us “ no public
la^s prohibited the sports of gladiators, the exercise of unnatural
lusts, the licentiousness of divorce, the custom of exposing infants,
and of procuring abortions—nor the frontless atrocity of consecra­
ting public stews and brothels to certain divinities“ at the time
of Christ's appearance, (he adds) the wisest among mankind
looked upon the whole system which then prevailed, as a just ob­
ject of ridicule and cpntempt; at that time the religion of the Ro­
mans, as well as their arms, had extended itself through a great
part ofthe w o r ld a n oddkind ofpacific age, truly ! If such were
their peaceful times, what shall we think of their warlike ? though
it can hardly be denied a Roman peace was sometimes even more
fatal to virtue and independence, than a Roman war. Hence, the
expression of Tacitus, “ they made a desert, and called it peace.”
It is not wonderful, then, that the Jewish people should have
groaned under the Roman yoke, and sighed after some mighty
deliverer, who should be king over all the earth (fiizdk. 14. 9),
whose arrow should go forth a# the lightning; and the Lord God
blow thetrumpet,andgo with the whirlwinds ofthe South (Zech. 14).
For Mosheim justly says, that at the time he supposes Christ to
have appeared, “ errors of a very pernicious kind had infected the "
whole body of the people, and the more learned part of the nation
were deluded upon points of the highest consequence. All looked
for a deliverer, but not such a one as God bad promised. Instead
of a meek and spiritual Saviour, they expected aformidable and war*
like prince, to break their chains, and set them at liberty from the
Roman yoke.” What Mosheim meant by such a one as God had
promised, it is hard to guess; but if he intendedto convey the idea
that the Jews were not justified in their expectation of a formida­
ble and warlike prince, who should break their chains, &c., by an
appeal to Scriptures, and the sayings of the prophets, nothing can
be more erroneous; for they dearly allude to the coming in power
and glory of apolitical Saviour, or Saviours, for in Obadiah we
read (21) “ And Saviours shall come up on mount Zion to judge
the Mount ofEsau; andthe kingdom shall be the Lord's.11 Surely,
Mosheim never read the texts (Isa. 32, 1, 18), “ Behold a king
shall reign in righteousness, and my people shall dwell in peaceful
Digitized by Goo<; e
236
1íaKta!ft6tí*y 2 6 .5)¿> "Behcto^k»^di^a«om^ daitfc the
Lóid,thatT Willrtafoü««0*Dayi& uright^nbi^
tfeign atídprósper, and éM l toíecatejiiagmfeiít upbántt th a tc h .”
Sea biso, Málacltí 3 .4 ^ 6 * 1 ^ 4 5 ) ¿li>2^*32,4*3yly 2^ft¿W,—
Bdekí 89: 21, 1K 6 ,^ I ^ ¿ a ^ ^ ^ 8 gritad a
htat 6f óthars;thttt cnrfohesréndete mayitefartó^ta ttoei* JeSure.
ftétth&tyKfhóhad?péffl ritnWiatteütión 1» ííetdsh^atto^^diééves,
' tiftíT^ilhe king^of'Judate wert ícttUéd the Ikw€%ehoMlad^íálereí-
fbré the expected restorer oftfceir thronecaále toítoiftarátaf¿em-
pbatffcally as fftfe aúóinted,tT Messiah ; audit bfec^^^fiw ^rite
literkey amnsemént with tie lewB/ to dnd^'paÉM^é»o fto & írip -
tnre applicable tohkn.” Add to which, tfaA é&mcM áSkefcoT
énoínted, always conveyed tibe idea of &£»?, asitiay heneen ktfSam.
24. é¡ where David declaims <*lie Lord fortbid'ttabisfafaM do
this thing onto my master (Sard)theLo fé P s anointed.'! tHaw*;then,
can Mosheim be jnStifiedhi his ignorant asiertien,ihafotto Jhaws in
looking for a pbtt&cal king, a formidableand warlSB»8avbor^were
looking for what Ood hftd nCt promised; for if itbte admittedfGod
ever promised anything bythe monthsofthe Jewidh-prbphete?bnch
propheciesdearlypointtoaChristwhoshoulddefivértifemcwtcftheir
enemies’ hafids, and establish on earth hi$ temporalkingdóavtehere
he waSto sitnpoatbe throne of hfe%lory * indjathely Jfeensalem
(13,15,18), built up With Sapphires, and emcrálds^and precious
stones; its watts and towers, and battlements^ wi& pure*gold; its
streets paved With berylr and egrtmnele, and1the Wanes of'&phir i
when all bierstreets should say haUelaj«h.VH .*x...... » l ^-
Here then, we have 'Wear and simple mason*why, aeMoSbeim
expresses it,dehriouii meúset themselVtaup fot^fche^Mesaiah^for
*supply is regelated by demand,*s weUinMessi&hs tain borny^end
the whole secret wf die matiyyk&^ CAmfrwho'appeared ^ the
Shoal aftthb period treated of, is this^the* stopid credolousnesB of
the pedple, who, doing little else- bat gape atowtlbr the^fulfilment
ofdm prophecies, became the easy prey ofevery shallow impostor;
fbr, as somebody has remarked) knawssjart aá^nataralLy preyupon
fbols, as worms do upon dead bodies1
. *Forman aftotant o f1these
impostors, we refer the reader/to Milner’s History of the-Jews,
Josephus, and other writerson the same subjéctj as want<of&pace
wülonly allow ns to notice one Ortwo. Dosithens, a Sainante», of
whom Mosheim says,“he lived aboOtthe time ofour&avfoar(£t»ery,
iahát time, Mosheim, and whieh SaviourT), and set hmaelfupfar the
Messiáh, ttihomGod had sent to the Jews,'* ^be same observation
Digitized by Google
237
j f’Mds . -
M/riegMriy*fativ4l)uridofifWiimf,^^ the
'.dismpreAe&xi”- ^Another wrong-beaded foecbar^sy^tb^spine
—fWrite#uhnfed Jtffeuatodtt,£ gamteaten.*Ucgby Wm,'ftsppa*£4 in ,.
£ bitfais fiihtii^ (flle^BrtOiVli)jjholild rathcrihe rankedwifb ¿na-
o-ntiot, thail WitfrUm heretics of batiquity* se e th e al$otpplfeikfnto
,e 'fcisdhesdjtOe&hibii himself to the worlds* thfr /
^Mbwjwhndoee notseethat when .«neb u bmuties” coold q$a# up
iilflmimsHdiraabu» after a smart shower, and dad whole masses of
: pt£ah*Teadytd follow them—that the fanaticism ofthelattermust
Ti^hdvwhfeeitaf a starkstaring mad character| nordid MasheSm, in
poMftBicH^sad)i facte, seem to be atall awareof the strong case he
nufrm making outagainei theemhtenreof-the man Jem*; for ifJesus
<b diadJivfedand adtottithed the Jews, as all parties represent him to
a-'diave fibne, is it probable, nay isifc possible, a crowd of impostors,
i'r4rorih« those named above, eonkL'havamet with such astonishing
i ‘*ucoess{ and what must surprise every reflecting mind is, that
• Httlemare than thirty years afterthe¡supposed death of Jesus the
'(Jews either knew, or heeded so little, all that had been saidand
? written about Jesus and his miracles, that, as may be seep in
< Josephus, (v.3,eh.6), «whatdidmdstelavatetheminundertaking
«-certain war^sgainstthe$Vomans)wiuian ambiguousoraclefbund
in ihmrsaeredwriting,how, aboutthattime, one from theircoun­
try should become governor of the habitable earth/’ The same
writeralso saysid his (Antiq. 27.ch. 2}, tbkt “the Phariseesper­
suaded Pheroras, Herod’s brotheiythathe wasthe predictedking, x
. whd wonldrhave’sdlthmgs hi his powerf to be suss,«tbspriests
eawthwNecessity offulfittiiig^ifpossible, the prediction^bygetting '
vp a Messiah; lor affasrnliened people^ Ukef^flpoQed ehild, must
baVeits lollipop, when ks heart is set upon it, wtichflw>se>who
nmnufsetare^ must, take cam is sufficiently4sweet,forfofly of all
hisds hasa Hqfnovieotooth) and aU pretenders whorely upon it
forfortune, must, Kkethe enthusiast mentioned by Josephus,?who
set up;Messiah^thinklying af iUtfanmeequenoe, and contriveeeery
- thing sothat the mufttliide mky be pfaased.” Them they surely Sue-
seed t or in-vulgar phraseology, da, the trick* That many ufalse
6htis£*’' appeared,esaaot, therefore, he matter of surprise— but it
' mould-have been surprising, indeed, if the trueonehad¡ seeing*the
then distracted state ofthe Jewish people, whichrenderedfitimpos-
sible for them to unite for any great national, stift less«universal,
purpose, without which union, it was (pute impoesil^ they could
Digitized by Google
238
re-establish their supremacy, or give the law to nations. Here,'
however, we must turn to Hennell, who maintains that “ it is in
times of strong excitement such men as Jesus appear,” which is
not denied; and only shews how necessary it is to be on our guard,
when there are so many enthusiastic minds bom of a certain era,
in selecting one as the enthusiast out of the many. But Hennel
committed the common and ludicrous blunder of attempting to
shew that Jesus was a mere man, and not a prophet or God, before
taking the trouble to examine or shew that such a man as the Jesus
actually existed—that he took for granted, and as we shallpresently
see, no writer ever so completely and innocently refuted himself.
He observes, “ all classes of society must from time to time, pro­
duce individuals of rare mental superiority. In ordinary times
this may remain unseen and dormant; but when some prevalent
enthusiasm is abroad, it is quickened into life and action, and breaks
forth to public gaze in the form of a great character—(ergo), Jesus,
the peasant of Galilee, possessed'one of those gifted minds, which
are able to make an impression on mankind; and the age in which
he lived supplied the stimulus required for its manifestation.,, We
shall passoverhislaboriousandingenious attemptto shew thatJesus,
though an enthusiast, was also both cunning and ambitious, and
thought “ by acquiring the.reputation ofa^miracle worker, backed by
clever preaching, to cause a general rising of the Jewish nation—
the expulsion of the Romans—and the election of himself to the
throne;” we shall look to metal more attractive, for we repeat,
neverdid refined ingenuityso completelydefeat itself,for Hennelhas
in one short note, destroyed, evidently without his own knowledge,
the supposition that Jesus ever existed. Now to the proof ofthis:
He says,* “ The appearance,however, of an enthusiastpreaching
in the desert their (the Jews) long expected kingdom, produced
much excitement throughout J u d e a b u t mark, reader, in a note
to the above passage he says, “ In later times, the preaching and
sect of John the baptist was lost sight of, owing to the pre-eminence
of the successor. But that his (John's) sect was one of much no­
toriety near his own time, is seen from Acts 18 and 19; for,
twenty-three years after his death, Apollos and other Jews, who had
not evenheard ofJesus, werepreaching the baptism of John.” This
admission is at once most extraordinary and most valuable, as it
settles entirely the question between Hennel and us; for how is
it possible that Apollos and other Jews could, twenty-three years
• See Inquiry into the Origin of Christianity.—Page 21.
/&SB
Digitized by Google
239
after John’s death,preach the baptism of John, without having heard
ofJesus? yet, as Hennel labours to prove, Jesus had actually ex­
isted in the time of John. What ! could Apollos (Acts 18. 24,25)
an eloquent man, and mighty in theScriptures, who taught diligently
thethingsoftheLord,” couldhehaveknown only the baptism ofJohn,
and not even have heard ofJesus, ifJesushad really lived?—impos­
sible !andneverin the history oftheorsing,has therebeen detected so
remarkable an instance of self-refutation, as this of Hennel’s, for
the above passage completely demolishes the idea to support which,
he wrote his book, and shews to the world, the curious spectacle of
an author, ingeniously and laboriously attempting to prove that
Jesus was not a God, nor a prophet, but a clever ambitious man;
and then, as though bewitched, indirectly oversetting, by an as­
tounding fact, the belief that any such man existed* The fact
is so clear, and so startling, that it may defy resistance, and we
willingly accord to Hennel the honour of furnishing, without being
aware of it, the most conclusive evidence yet adduced by any
writer, that the Jesus of the gospels never existed ; for it was
John who bare record that Jesus was the son of God ; it was John
made straight the way of the Lord ; and can any, not lunatic, sup
pose it possible that only twenty-three years after John's death,
Apollos and others, who wdre his disciples, should never have heard
of Jesus, even while they themselves were preaching the baptism of
John. Were they spoken of as ignorant men, the thing might be
supposed possible ; but they were preachers of reputation ; and
Apollos is particularly noted (Acts 18. 25) as a man “ instructed in
thé way of the Lord” Surely this, with the many other authentic
and startling facts adduced in this work, amounts to something like
an excess of evidence, a sort of out-proving disproof “ It is re­
markable, continues Hennel,that the writer (Acts) calls these Jews
(that is Apollos and others), “ certain disciples.” Oh ! Hennel,
Hennel ! it is much more remarkable that you should have digged
such a bottomless pit for your favourite ideas, and walked with them
(your eyes seemingly wide open, perhaps like Lady Macbeth’s, with
their sense shut) straight into it. The book,however, will be preser­
ved, if only as a relic, quite unique and complete, of literaryfelo de
se—a gem ofblunders,—for it is unquestionably one of the most
valuable ever given to the world,—and certainly no writer living or
dead, ever so completely demolished, at one blow, his own frame­
work of sophistry. We welcome it as a most apt illustration of
the familiar adage, “ ’tis an ill wind, that blows no one good,” for
Digitized by Google
the HI ltiok of this telente* Brunei,
sufficient argument «gainst the existence of
of sophistry can prevail against. Whtether, therefore? wedomfier
the question on natural or supernatural grounds—whether we con­
siderJesus as an incarnatecrucified God,a crucified prophet,or cru­
cified matr,put to deathfor his seiUtmusand^oyelpdr^ctiseaiJjy the
Jews, the beliefin his actual existence cannot stand;jpo^tlSbelief
in the Jesus of the gospels must now share the eommonlG&Sof all
falsehood,—the evidence hitherto urged in its support, must fly
before the face of the reasons advanced in this work,—and the
human mind be for ever freed from the thraldom of a malignant
and pernicious superstition !
It is certain, that whether Jesus was a real or ideal character,
will be hereafter the grand question in dispate; and all thinkers
upon this important subject will form two divisions—one ofwhich
may aptly be called Realists, and the other Idealists; for, unques­
tionably, with the philosophic, there will in future be no difference
of opinion as to the divine, but simply, human character of Jeaua
The character of Jesus is either mythic or historic,—in otherwords,
real or ideal/ the ReaMst will contend^utSk|»wa<(dle# Jeans ao-
fcnlly existed; the substance of whose history is to be found In the
four gospels; which actuality, they wiU affirm, receives confirma­
tion in the writings of the Pagans, and others: whereas, the ideal*
ist will agree with us,that the character of Jesus is mere fiction, or
invention, sprung from the idealism ofimaginative m en; for, while
by historic or real character is manifestly meant ideas concerning
an individual, formed from facts ; by mythic character is meant,
supposed facts concerning an individual, horn of imaginative ideas.
Dr. Strauss calls Jesus a myth, which is just what we anueadea-
vouring to provethat he is; adopting the definition of a myth given
by Bauer, “ afact invented by the aid ofan idea;” for that which to
some will seem a paradox, must be admitted, namely, that an ns*
ventedfact is no fact at all; while little logic is necessary to prove
that invented history is but another nameforfiction. If, therefore,
what is related of Jesus is a myth, that is, a string ofinventions--*
not real, but supposed or imagined facts—the character ofJesus
must befiction—not truth; in short, not real but ideal. The only
difference between Strauss aud ourselves being this, that we pnsh
the truth to-its legitimate conclusion,—whereas, he dared not do i t
London j H. Hetherington; A. Heywood, Manchester; and all BookieUMa,'
J. Taylor, Printer, 39, SmallbrookStreet, Birmingham» t
Digitized by Google
THE
EXISTENCE O
FCHRIST
AS A HUMAN BEING,
DISPROVED!
BY IBBESISTIBLE'EYlDEJfCE, IN A SBRIE8 OF LETTERS,
PROM A GERMAN JEW,
ADDRESSED TO CHRISTIANS OF ALL DENOMINATIONS,
L e t t e r SO. w e e k ly . One Penny,
wI amthe Lordthy God, the Holy One of Israel. Beforemetherewasno
Godformed,neithershalltherebe afterme. /, even/, amthe Lord,andbesides
methereis noSaviour.”—Isaiah XLIII. 3, ID, 11.
Christians, -----------
. As this Letter is the last ofthe series, it will be useful to consider
how far the pledge giren in the first has been redeemed. A pro­
mise voluntarily made, should, if possible, be scrupulously per­
formed—breaking faith wittingly being decidedly immoral; and all
literary deception, a mischievous species of public wrong, demand­
ing a public apology.
The first Letter pledged us to disprove the existence of Jesus
Christ, the substance of whose history is containedin the gospels—
to disprove it, whether as a god of flesji and blood, an inspired
. prophet, or mere man. It is confidently believed that this work
has disproved his existence, and shewn all sincere Christians to be
idolaters; but, whether that conviction is or is not ajust one, must
be determined by the thinking public, to whom we appeal without
fear, having the fullest reliance upon the integrity of their verdict;
for the intelligent vox populi, if not the voice of God, is the most
just, and therefore the safest tribunal to which the advocate of
truth can appeal.
The early po/tion of the work incontestably proved that the Sun
. was in ancient times the object of adoration, among all people—in
the nations of Africa, Asia, Europe, and America—upon the soil of
the new as well as the old world ; it proved that the name Christ
Digitized by Google
i* but one of ttiaujr given by men Vatfcat apparentsourpe*qf Jijiftt, '
heat, and life. It was shewn by an appealto fa#ts,defyipg con­
tradiction, that Christno more had a real existence than the Chrish-
na of India, the Adonis of Pheneoia, or the Hercules of Egypt and
Greece. Chrishna, Adonis, Hercules, Mithxa, and a score of
othem, were personifications of the Son* and the character of
Christ in nil its essentials, is but a copy of these,thereby proving
the gospelhistory an imposition ;.or, in the words of our first Letter,
an idle tale, hexing no foundmtwn, whatever in truthf~-frjmere jfctwn
—stolen from, the mythologicalfables ofancient nations.
By reference to scripture texts.it has been demonstrated that the
history of Jesus Christ, as set forth in the gospels, and as commonly
received, must be false; for the texts prove, either, that die gospel
-account inallegoric, thatis, expresses one thing and means another,
having no literal truth ; or those who insist upon a literal iategpre-
~tation, and are willing to abide by the naked meanmg~~*whfrinsist
'that Jesus Christ actually lived-and was really crucified* will*he
forced to admit that he was crucified three times over, at three dif­
ferentplaces; which extraordinary scriptural evidence, asit involves
a contradiction, and an absolute impo9siblity, must utterly destroy
the beliefthat Jesus was,actually crucified. l0..
These Letters have also made manifest that when Jesus Christ
was bom, is now a mystery, apd was equally a mystery among the
first Christians, who knew literally nothing about so important a
matter,—each sect, as Mosheim observes, holding -contradictory
opinions thereupon. As to where the infant Saviour first saw the
light, it is a question involved in obscurity; for though Luke and
Matthew agree that he was bom in Bethlehem, and the orthodox,
as in duty bound, echo the same, yet it is certain, as Dr. Strauss
observes, and we have proved, that there is not a single guarantee
that Bethlehem was the place of his birth. Christians ! who dare
think and reason for yourselves, we ask you, is it likely, is it credi­
ble, that if the Saviour had come upon earth to regenerate the
world—had he been conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost, and
brought forth by a virgin—that even up to this very day none
should know when he was bora, or where he was brought forth ?
Is it credible, nay, is it possible, if such an important personage*had
really lived, his apostles would have failed to make everything
known respecting his earthly career ? whereas,even now, none know
where he wasborn, or when; Christians, ancient and modem, hold­
ing contradictory opinions thereupon ; which is a strong collateral
Digitized by Google
pfooifbathe wafcuotton atall; besides, the pribabtitiy ofMosheim
m annihilated by the impossibility ©fthe circumstances,—for be
thought it probable the infant Jesus was bom about a year and six
months before the death -of Hepod f but alas! the unluoky bungler,
Luke; not being chronologicallyinspired, seemingly having the most
profound contempt for mental, andevery-otherspecies ofarithmetic,
has “ by*slight mistakes," blowi>up the whole story;for, as though
his brains had been made of bran, or some equally soft material,
he makes Mary pregnant wftk Jesus when Cyrenius wasgovernor
of Syria, that is, ten years after the death of Herod; so, according
to this pwbabla invention, the virgin-mother was pregnant with the
Saviour ten years after the said Saviour was bom! This*could
not be believed, even though it had been written under the influ­
ence of inspiration, with a quill from the wing of the,Angel Gabriel
himself. .
The insanity of looking for truth with regard to the origin of the
Christian fiction, m the eady writings of the church,has been fully
pointed out, as also the very equivocal character of the gospels, so
enugiy and carefully selected—pronounced genuine,to boot,by men
ofsuch easy virtue as the early saints, who “were canonized by the
ignorance of the tunes," and the early fathers, who, like Synesius,
thought,asdarknesssuitstheblear-eyed betterthjanlight,so falsehood
was better fitted for the vulgar than troth. It may befairly presumed
that such unique specimens of holiness would treat ,the people as
blear-eyed,to whomthe fullblazeofintellectuallightwouldbe highly
prejudicial; in short, this work has so shewn-up the oldcuriosities,
nailed saints and fathers^that all must feel, the less said about them
the better for their reputation ; for, like the quack doctors of our
own times, their business was to physic the fools—of course, in a
Spiritual sense ; in one point, they agreed to a tee with the mesme-
rizers ofonr own times, which is, that there is one nature, one disr
ease, and one cure—that nature a fallen one; its disease, know­
ledge ; its cure, delusion—delusion—and nothing but delusion !
These were the spiritual quacks who voted which should be the
true life of Jesus—the genuinely inspired gospels. Who will won­
der, then,.that they should, as Gibbon said pf Eusebius, “ relate or
select whatever might redound to the .glory of their own church,
and suppress aU that could tend to bring disgrace on their religion,"
Oftheir extraordinary ignorance we have left ourselves no room to
speak; but thus mueh may be said, tligt no set df men ever carried
on such a profitable trade in humbug, with so little intellectual
Digitized by Google
laborious research, it is really nó teoré a Laten Jesü than'a Ufa of
Casper Hauser, or Alexander Selkirk.” . v
It wauldhave been easy to hai^; swollenthis little worfciafeQ » #
ponderous tome,by piling proofupon proofagainst the existenoe of
Jesus; but were we to write for aji age, it would.be impossible to.
dg more than disprove his existence, which, it is presumed, is in
Ibis work effectually done, Thf$e*Vho'wáUnot read what is bore
written, it is obvious, will not b^ convinced by its:arguments.
Such as decide without examinaron, are bigots!—and wisdom is
the price of bigotry. Those who.have npt the courage to.(gamine
it, are fettered by their fharfc—a mental eondi$ipn beyond thp regch
of moral sugary: and as to those who cannotreason, they are ther
fools ofsociety—the prescriptiveproperty of-knaves* Ad ofthelatter
class have a kingdom not of this world, that is, the world of mason
and reality, but one in regions somewhere beyond the moon; the
willing dupes ofsuch worthies as Terbollien^who, in the true spirit
of the faithful* say*» # Why a9* I notashamed of maintaining that
the- Son of God was born ? *Why,,¿farotas? it is itselfa shameful
thing, I maintain that the Son of God died. W ell;that is wholly
credible, became it is monstrously absurd. I maintain that after
having been buried be rose agate $and that I taketo be unquestion­
ably true, becameit is absolutely impossible.'’—Those wbo with Ter-
iullián will maintain all this forragO of absurdities, and more, if
necessary; will not be moved by this book, except to bum it, or
or to see it burned by the common hangman. .
In conclusion; though to the critical*eye this work may ap­
pear disfigured by imperfections—by all who look for bold and
wholesome truth; it will be bailed.as erne of the most useful that
has ever issued from the ptess. A work which has forced its way
to public notice, under circumstances tibe most discouraging and
difficult,—not the least of these was the spiteful—frantic opposition
of bigot theologians; those interpreters of celestial things, who,
when the spark of truth is thrown among them, arc explosive and
dangerous as gunpowder ; in short, it has furnished irresistible
evidence in Disproof of the Existence of Jesus Christ, in spite of
bigots, who will not reason; slaves, who dare not reason; and
fools, who cannot reason!
THE END. •
London : H. Hetherington ; A. Heywood, Manchester; and all Booksellers,
J. Taylor, Printer, 129, Smaltbcook Street, Birmingham.
Digitized by . >og!e
