{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1933__adams___book_of_the_master_of_the_hidden_places.pdf","mytitle":"Book Of The Master Of The Hidden Places","mylang":"de"}
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
OF THE HIDDEN PLACES
by
W. MARSHAM ADAMS
Formerly Fellow of New College, Oxford
Being The House of the Hidden Places
and The Book of the Master, Edited with
a Foreword, Notes and an Appendix by
E. J. LANGFORD GARSTIN
Author of Theur5y or the Hermetic Mystery, The Secret Fire,
etc.
1933
THE SEARCH PUBLISHING COMPANY
LONDON
MADE AND PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY
THE GARDEN CITY PRESS LTD ., LETCHWORTH .
fil41ll'lllllltlll11 "fl'' VLU'1i11t11'11V ll'U~~Illlillllliillli :~l111 '
ISIS AND OSIRIS
From the " Papyrus of Ani "
CONTENTS
CHAPTER
FOREWORD -
PREFACE - -
I. THE PYRAMID OF LIGHT
II. THE SECRET SCROLL - -
III. THE HOUSE OF OSIRIS -
IV. THE TEMPLE OF THE VIRGIN MOTHER
V. THE HIDDEN GOD
VI. THE MYSTERY OF THE HEAVENS
VII. THE MYSTERY OF THE DEPTHS
VIII. THE INITIATION OF THE POSTULANT
IX. THE ILLUMINATION OF THE ADEPT -
NOTES -
APPENDIX -
ILLUSTRATIONS
PAGE
ISIS AND OSIRIS - - Frontispiece
SUMMIT OF GREAT PYRAMID . CENTRAL TRANSVERSE SECTION
HIEROGLYPH OF THE "HOTEP"
GATEWAY OF THE DOUBLE ARCH
INTERIOR OF THE SECRET HOUSE, CALLED BY THE EGYPTIANS
OF OLD " THE LIGHT " - -
THE - HORIZON OF HEAVEN " - -
PYRAMIDAL REGION OF THOTH -
SACRED HIEROGLYPHIC SYMBOL PECULIAR TO THOTH
TEMPLE OF THE VIRGIN MOTHER-DENDERAH - facing p . 69
HATHOR WITH THE SPLENDOUR PROCEEDING FROM HER WOMB 74
ROOF OF UPPER HALL - - 90
HIEROGLYPH SYMBOL OF THE NILE 90
THRONE AND Axis 90
SYMBOL OF DIVINITY 90
TERRITORY OF THE HOLY DEAD 90
WELL OF LIFE, PLACE OF INITIATION 90
ANKH, SYMBOL OF CREATED LIFE 90
OPENING FROM WELL TO CHAMBER OF DIVINE FIRE 9 1
SCEPTRE OF PTAH, SPIRIT OF DIVINE FIRE - - 91
ENTRANCE PASSAGE WITH GATEWAY (PASSAGE OF POLE-STAR) 91
SCEPTRE OF ANUP - - 9I
ATF-CROWN OF ILLUMINATION - 93
ZODIACAL LIGHT OF SUPREME HEAVEN 93
THRONES OF ISIS AND OSIRIS 106
9
33
33
33
36
52
66
67
GREAT ANGLE, BORNE
TRINITY OF EGYPT
ILLUSTRATIONS
THE "STONE OF GOD ." THRONE IN LUMINOUS HALL OF
TRUTH - 129
THE FIVEFOLD THRONE - 146
THE ANCHOR AND THE COFFIN OF THE LORD OF EARTH
(SARKOPHAGUS AND HIGHEST CHAMBER) - 146
THE SAIL OF THE FIRMAMENT - - 147
THE CABIN - - 148
CHAMBER OF NEW BIRTH, SURMOUNTED BY THRONE - 148
THE FORTY-TWO JUDGES OF THE DEAD (FROM THE PAPYRUS
OF ANHAI) - - - 152
THE GATE OF THE BURNING CROWN - 158
THE SACRED TAT OR MEASURE OF INUNDATION - 166
THE POSITION OF THE GREAT PYRAMID WITH RELATION TO
THE POLE AND THE CENTRE OF THE EARTH - - - 166
ALOFT BY AMEN, SOURCE OF LIFE, IN
IO
GREAT ANGLE OF THE . NILE DELTA, SOURCE OF LIFE, IN
TRIANGLE OF EGYPT - -
THE ORBIT - -
THE ROYAL CARTOUCHE -
RESTAU, THE GATE -
THE GODS OF YESTERDAY AND TO-DAY AND THE BENNU
THE SOUL OF THE DECEASED AS A HUMAN-HEADED BIRD -
167
169
1 73
1 73
186
187
189
FOREWORD
THERE is, perhaps, no ancient civilisation that has given rise
to so much speculation as that of ancient Egypt, which has
for centuries presented, and in many respects still presents,
a number of problems of considerable interest and difficulty .
Until the discovery of the Rosetta stone by M . Bouchard
in 1799, which made possible. the decipherment of the
hieroglyphics, there seemed to be little hope that any of these
questions would be solved, and although much progress has
since been made, the real nature of the religion of Egypt,
her chronology, the extent of her scientific knowledge, the
source of her civilisation and the significance of certain of
her monuments still seem to be regarded by many authorities
as being largely within the domain of theory only. In any
event it is apparent that on all these points there exists, even
to-day, a considerable divergence of opinion among scholars .
It is now nearly forty years since the late Mr. Marsham
Adams first propounded his theory as to the intimate corres-
pondence that exists between the Book of the Dead, as it is
commonly, though erroneously, called and the passage-
chambers of the Great Pyramid . This he did in an article in
the New Review in 1894, while in the following year he
published the first of his two books on the subject, The
House of the Hidden Places (London : John Murray), which
he described as a clue to the mysterious religion of ancient
Egypt.
The reception accorded to his work was very encouraging .
" Here and there," as he says himself, " some critic, im-
pelled by an unwonted sense of injured omniscience, gave
vent to utterances of a dark and oracular character. For
II
FOREWORD
instance, in one famous weekly review, the writer gave to the
public and myself his personal and almost passionate assur-
ance that, no matter what the appearances might indicate,
no correspondence was ever intended between the building
and the papyrus ; as if he had been intimately acquainted
with the authors of both, and a few thousand years or so
were but an unconsidered trifle in his long and learned
existence . But for the most part the book was freely recog-
nised as the first attempt to give some consistent account of
the hitherto uncomprehended religion of Egypt, taken
solely from Egyptian sources ."
He received much encouragement from Sir Gaston
Maspero, who wrote that : " The Pyramids and the Book
of the Dead reproduce the same original, the one in words,
the other in stone," adding that no other Egyptologist had
previously dealt with the subject. He also informed Marsham
Adams of the prevalence of a tradition among the priests of
Memphis supporting his contention " that that Secret
House was the scene where the neophyte was initiated into
the mysteries of Egypt." This, Marsham Adams felt, lent
his theory. " a force which only direct evidence could rebut ."
Admittedly his theories demand acceptance of the fact
that the ancient Egyptians possessed a considerable know-
ledge of astronomy and were familiar with the proper
motions of the solar system and the precession of the
equinoxes, but as this is now admitted by all except the die-
hard remnants of what Marsham Adams describes as
" schoolroom scholarship," no argument can be made out
against' his case on this ground . In any event he continued
to follow up the clue he had discovered to the best of his
power, " more particularly by ascertaining the degree of
accuracy which may be attached to the astronomical concep-
tions, which form so large a part of the imagery employed .
For the directly religious portion has engaged the attention
of many experts in hieroglyphic texts ; and our knowledge
of the forms in which the divine ideas were conceived among
1 2
FOREWORD
that ancient priesthood, if not clear and consistent, is at least
free in great measure from the distortion and misrepresenta-
tion wherein those ideas were involved, when filtered through
the highly imaginative but singularly inobservant intellect
of Greece. On the other hand," he continues, with regard
to the scientific principles embodied in the Egyptian concep-
tions, except for the researches of the late Dr . Brugsch, no
writer, so far as I am aware, possessing a moderate know-
ledge of mathematical astronomy, and at the same time
some acquaintance with the hieroglyphic text, has devoted
himself specifically to the subject ; and hence it has naturally
come to pass that an amount of contempt has been poured
upon the science of Egypt comparable only to the piles of
filth which the ignorant hordes of wandering Arabs heaped
upon the majestic monuments and temples themselves . Yet
it is surely not a little difficult to understand the position of
those who, while recognising with a late astronomer,
Professor Proctor, that the temples of that country were
erected by ` astronomers for astronomers,' can nevertheless
placidly regard those stupendous structures, which for
thousands of years seem rather to have defied assaults than
to have needed repair from the hand of man, as mere
monuments of a folly even more stupendous than them-
selves. It is fairly amazing to think that while even to this
day the grandeur of those marvellous ruins towers above the
most finished buildings of later nations, and while modern
investigation only brings out more clearly the profound skill
and forethought lavished upon their construction, yet even
scholars should be content to regard the whole line of
Pharaohs as animated by no other spirit than that of Charles
Dickens' happy-go-lucky creation, Mr. Wemmick, in
Great Expectations . ' Hallo I ' said that casually minded
individual, ` here's a church, let's have a wedding .' ` Hallo ! '
according to these writers, cries one Egyptian monarch,
`here's a cataract, let's build a temple .' ' Hallo ! ' cries
another, ` here's a pole-star, let's put up a pyramid .' On the
I 3
FOREWORD
contrary, as we become more familiar with the Wisdom of
Egypt, so do we find that wisdom to justify itself the more
clearly to our perception, and the stricter the precision
required, the more closely do the scientific conceptions
appear to respond . Here then at least we are on firm ground,
and can apply the severest tests at each fresh step of seeming
advance ; while the inner or mystical doctrine conveyed,
that is to say, the presentation of the Invisible Light therein
shadowed forth, will become far easier both to follow and to
check, if we rightly apprehend their mode of regarding the
manifestations of the light which is seen ."
We are not surprised, then, to learn that before writing
his second book he made another visit to Egypt, during
which he devoted special attention to both these points .
" With the sacred writings in hand I went through the
secret places of the Great House ; and I greatly doubt
whether anyone will do the same, bearing in mind the
tradition of the priests, and picturing to himself the mid-
night watch of the lonely neophyte amid the impenetrable
darkness of those solemn chambers, without recognising
how apt was that awe-inspiring structure for the initiation
into the secrets of the unseen world ."
With regard, also, to the scientific aspect, Marsham
Adams was at that time able to detect certain points which
had up till then escaped attention, and these, he felt, were of
considerable value in elucidating the astronomical concep-
tions involved.
On his return to England he delivered a public
lecture at New College, Oxford, on the Scientific Precision
of the Astronomy of Early Egypt, and also published a
letter in The Times on the geographical and astronomical
conditions fulfilled by the situations of the principal temples .
He now felt that the time had arrived for him to enlarge
somewhat upon his previous work, and to enter with greater
freedom into a discussion of the nature of the doctrines
inculcated in the sacred writings, and, as a result, in 1898, he
1 4
FOREWORD
published his second book on this subject, The Book of the
Master (London :, John Murray. New York : G. P. Put-
nam's Sons).
In the preface to that volume, Marsham Adams explains
that he has endeavoured to disencumber the subject from all
the symbolism of whatever kind in which it has been
enwrapped, so as to throw some portion at least open to all
the world. " For they alone, it is true," he writes, " will see
the full bearing of such a record upon the development of
mankind and the light which it throws upon social problems,
who have painfully traced back custom and rite and doctrine
and law from age to age and from country to country by the
laborious comparison of record and tradition and relic and
monument, and can comprehend the almost indestructible
tenacity which characterises the grasp of antiquity, and the
vitality even now possessed by ideas and creeds long ago to
all appearance buried in profound oblivion . But who is there,
however careless of such problems, or disinclined for the
study of history, who yet does not feel some thrill at the
thought of penetrating the very heart and mind of men whose
bones were mingled with the dust thousands of years before
the sacred plough traced out the walls of Rome, or Abraham
went forth from Haran in the faith of the true God? For the
earliest-known form of man's spiritual life is fraught with a
charm indescribable and incommunicable . We cannot but
be touched with some feeling of pathos as we watch those
far-off generations looking forward to the mystery of the
tomb which they have solved for so many ages, but which,
to us, remain enigmas still . We cannot but experience some
sense of awe when we find them expecting the same immor-
tality beyond the grave which forms the hope of so many
millions among ourselves . And even such details as the
construction of the kalendar, or the reckoning of the years,
become irradiated with a sudden glow when we recognise
that as those long-departed students gazed persistently into
Nature's infinite Book of Secrecy, their vision pierced
' 5
FOREWORD
beyond the veil of sense ; and that for every festival and
every cycle, the outward aspect of the earth and heaven
imaged to their mind some interior and eternal truth . And
that interest quickens with an ever-growing freshness as we
pass from the celebration and ceremonies of their common
life to the deeper doctrine of the Hidden God, and the
Instruction of the Postulant in the secrets of the Eternal
Wisdom."
There is, however, another aspect of his theories, which
appealed to Marsham Adams as possessing " an unique and
preeminent interest." This is best illustrated in the first
instance by a letter received by him from a Roman Catholic
professor of theology, to whom he had sent a copy of a
review of his first book . It runs as follows
" Many thanks for sending me a copy of The Free-
mason's review of your attractive and remarkable book .
I, of course, know nothing of Freemasonry (though I
have followed what you say easily enough), but I have
been greatly struck with the notice in question . For
whereas the reviewer, writing evidently as an expert in
that subject, strongly commends your book as containing
matter of deep interest to his fellow Masons, I, on the
other hand, as one whose special avocation is the study
of Christian theology, have been surprised beyond
measure at the profound doctrines of the Catholic Faith,
and the numerous illustrations of our own Scriptures
which seem to me, in reading your book, to have been
foreshadowed beneath the symbols of that most mys-
terious religion, almost as though we had in it the very
Word of God' of which the Apostle speaks, the ` mys-
tery which has been hidden from ages and generations .'
This double significance would be extraordinary enough
if your views on the subject were derived either from the
teaching of Catholicity or from the secrets of Masonry,
but its singularity is enhanced a hundredfold when one
i 6
FOREWORD
reflects that they come neither from one source nor the
other, but from the records of ancient Egypt ."
Now although Marsham Adams explained in both his
books that in dealing with the building which was
literally the Masonic " Light " of Egypt, his use of such
terms and doctrinal allusions as might be current among the
Masonic brotherhood of the present day was intended to
refer only to the actual masonry of the Pyramid and to the
corresponding features of the Ritual, nevertheless, an idea
was current in certain quarters that his works were written
on masonic lines. This is entirely a misconception except
in so far as such phrases and allusions might be in harmony
with the doctrines found in the papyri .
On the other hand he felt that an example of the increased
force with which a more profound study of Egyptian
teaching illustrates the analogy indicated by the Catholic
professor would be found in his investigation of the temple
of the Virgin Mother Hathor, from whose womb came forth
the divine Horus, the second member of the Egyptian
Trinity. Not merely is this the case, but the Egyptian
theosophy echoes the teaching of our very Gospels even
more directly than is the case with the Old Testament .
" Thus," he says, " though the Hebrew scriptures reveal
many of the names of God, they do not assign to Him the
name of Light ." This, of course, is true so far as the written
Law is concerned, but it is interesting to note that the
Oral Law, as embodied in the Zohar, repeatedly employs
this title in the words Ain Soph Aur or Limitless Light .
" But the Light," Marsham Adams continues, " is the very
term by which the mystical Evangelist designates the
Second Person ; while in the first ages of the Church the
Illuminate was the title conferred upon those who were
permitted to assist at the Christian mysteries.' So, also,
the title of Master, of such great significance in the Ritual
of Egypt, is nowhere given in the Old Testament to the
I7
B
FOREWORD
Almighty, but it is the single title of authority claimed for
Himself by the divine Master in the Gospel ; and it is twice
employed by Him in a mysterious manner when giving
commandment for preparing the divine mysteries in the
upper chamber. Again, the second birth of the soul is
nowhere, by open expression at least, taught in the writings
either of Moses or of the prophets ; and if those scriptures
therefore contained the full teachings revealed to the Jews,
why should Nicodemus have been rebuked for ignorance of
that doctrine ? But Moses, nevertheless, whose skill in all
the wisdom of Egypt was famous fifteen hundred years after
his death, must have been well acquainted with it, for it
formed a most important element in that creed, and was
indeed the very act whereby the departed was rendered
capable of initiation into the mysteries . And thus we are
brought face to face with a most profound and interesting
problem, which would solve a thousand anomalies . Was
there along with and even before the existence of a recorded
revelation an unwritten and inscrutable mystery handed
down by the ` Sekhem Ur am Sekhemmu,' the Grand
Master among the masters, generation after generation,
from the earliest ages to which our own scriptures refer-
the time when the prophet Enoch, who foretold the sceptic-
ism of the latter days, walked the path of God and was
caught up bodily into the hidden Light ? To my own
apprehension, I confess, there is much to render it far from
improbable that such a view may be correct ; and that in
searching for the key to the Book of the Master we may have
chanced upon nothing less than the revelation of a revelation .
But upon this point, of which all can form their own judg-
ment, I have entered into no discussion, preferring to leave
the analogy to speak for itself."
There are many other points of great interest with which
Marsham Adams has dealt in these two books, and his
remarkable power of vivid description has in many instances
enabled him to bring home with considerable force the lofty
i8
FOREWORD
beauty of the ideas with which he deals. His account, for
example, of the Equinox as envisaged by the instructed, will
undoubtedly render far more intelligible to many readers the
reason for the sanctity with which it was regarded by the
ancient peoples, while the picture created in the mind by
the way in which he describes the laying-out of the temple
of Hathor is likely to leave an indelible impression on the
mind of the most unimaginative.
He has also dealt with a number of subjects of importance,
not directly connected with his main thesis, and these have
been incorporated either in the text or in the notes at the
end of the book. Among these we might instance his views
on the origin of the Egyptian civilisation, a matter which
cannot be considered even to-day to have been satisfactorily
settled . He adheres to the view that it came from the south.
The majority opinion is still against this idea, although it is
well known that the Egyptians in all periods regarded the
land of Punt as their original home and the source whence
they derived their religious beliefs. This would explain
why the dynastic Egyptians made the statues of their dead
look towards the south, their old home, during the per-
formance of their funerary ceremonies, and why the
Pyramid is oriented north and south with regard to the
passages, so that the postulant during the initial and final
stages of his progress is all the time moving southwards .
Maspero supported the idea of a southern origin and stated
that a " more minute examination compels us to recognise
that the hypothesis of an Asiatic origin, however attractive
it may seem, is somewhat difficult to maintain . The bulk of
the Egyptian population presents the characteristics of those
white races which have been found established from all
antiquity on the Mediterranean slope of the Libyan con-
tinent; this population is of African origin, and came to
Egypt from the west or south-west,", and he points out the
preference of ethnologists and naturalists for this theory .
i Maspero. The Dawn of Civilization : Egypt and Chaldea, p . 45.
z9
FOREWORD
In view of Marsham Adams' suggestions regarding the
site of the Biblical Garden of Eden, it is interesting to note
that a Viennese Egyptologist, Herr Reinisch, even held that
not only are the Egyptians of African origin, but that " the
human races of the ancient world, of Europe, Asia and
Africa, are descended from a single family, whose original
seat was on the shores of the great lakes of equatorial
Africa,"l not that Marsham Adams puts forward any such
idea, but that his suggested site of Eden, taken in con-
junction with Reinisch's theory, forms a remarkable parallel
with Genesis, which probably embodies a far older tradition .
It is very remarkable, especially in view of the widespread
interest that has been focussed upon certain explanations of
the meaning of the passages and chambers of the Great
Pyramid, that more attention has not been paid to the con-
clusions reached by Marsham Adams, particularly when one
reflects on the light they throw upon a variety of problems ;
and the task of the editor has been to amalgamate his two
books into one consecutive whole, omitting all parts that are
redundant, and selecting in every case the more striking
version where any overlapping occurred. He has carefully
refrained from comment, save in one or two isolated cases,
but has provided references wherever possible or advisable .
The Appendix will be found to contain a selection of texts
from the Ritual corroborative of the parallelism indicated by
Marsham Adams, and it is hoped that this will prove useful .
His sole object in undertaking what has been literally a
labour of love, is to bring again to public notice what are,
perhaps, the most remarkable works that have been pro-
duced during the last half century by any Egyptologist, as
these have now been out of print for a number of years, and
more or less difficult to obtain .
Some of Marsham Adams' theories will doubtless still not
find acceptance in certain quarters, but on one point at least,
and that of very great importance, it may confidently be
I Op. cit., p. 45, note 6.
20
FOREWORD
affirmed that his conclusions are incontrovertible, namely the
definite relationship that he has established between the
Book of the Master, as he preferred to call it, and the pyramid
of Khufu, the " House of the Hidden Places." The evidence
which can be adduced in support of this hypothesis is such
as to place the matter beyond all reasonable doubt, even in
the mind of the most sceptical.
And once this fact is accepted, it is difficult not to go
further and to admit that many of the other suggestions put
forward possess at least a high degree of probability ; for
Marsham Adams, in the two works which are here amal-
gamated, has placed the matter before us in a manner at
once so logical, so simple and so straightforward ; with such
obvious sincerity and with such a vivid power of description,
that he carries all but the most prejudiced reader with him .
Marsham Adams' own words may be invoked as a final
apologia for the present volume . " I have confined my
efforts," he says, " to attempting to express in clear and
popular form, which all may easily follow, an outline of those
deeply veiled doctrines of which I may have caught a
glimpse ; and thus to present such an account of the earliest
recorded religion as may afford to all some conception of
its transcendent majesty and supernal beauty ."
E. J. LANGFORD GARSTIN.
London,
January 1 933 .
2 1
PREFACEI
THE singular correspondence which may be traced between
the passage-chambers of the Great Pyramid-called by the
Egyptians of old the " Khut," or " Lights "-and the
various stages traversed, according to the creed of that
ancient nation, by the holy dead in passing from the light
of earth to the light of eternal day, was first pointed out by
me last years in the pages of the New Review. Previously to
its publication the article was submitted in substance to M .
Maspero and Professor Sayce ; and I desire to express my
sincere thanks to those eminent authorities for the recogni-
tion and encouragement which they afforded me, as well as
to Mr. Mengedoht, the hieroglyphic scholar, for the
revision of my work . In the present book the same analogy
is worked out in much fuller detail-not completely indeed,
for that may well be the labour of years ; but sufficiently, I
would hope, to present a clear basis for further investigation
in either direction . In the case of the Ritual, we obtain what
appears to me to be a consistent and intelligible analysis of
that hitherto impenetrable creed, through the gradual
transformation of the faculties in successive stages of
illumination. With regard to the Pyramid, we are led to
suggest a spiritual and a most far-sighted purpose for its
construction. For in that marvellous edifice, the very stones
of which in their silent harmony seem to rebuke the idle
charges of folly and pride heaped by ignorance upon the
architect, we have nothing less than an indestructible and
immutable symbol of the national religion.
1 To The House of the Hidden Places.
s 1894.
23
PREFACE
The value of the general theory here proposed depends,
therefore, it is evident, upon the accuracy of the corres-
pondence established, or sought to be established, between
the path so jealously concealed within the interior of the
Pyramid of Light and the path described textually in the
well-known collection of sacred Egyptian writings, which is
called by us the Book of the Dead, but which claims for its
own title The Book of the Master of the Hidden Places . But
those points of correspondence are so numerous in them-
selves and form so severe a system of checks upon each
other, as to reduce almost to nothing the chance of their
arising from mere coincidence ; while no amount of
ingenuity-the deadliest perhaps of all opponents to truth-
could suffice to satisfy the innumerable conditions connected
with the worship, the kalendar, and the civil constitution of
the country which such a correspondence must fulfil.
Nor let it be supposed that an inquiry of this kind is
merely of archaeological interest, or that a determination of
that early creed can have no greater value than to satisfy an
idle curiosity. Very far from it. If there be a fact in the
general development of nations which historical research has
clearly demonstrated, it is the extreme tenacity of antique
belief, and its enduring influence on the organisation of
society ; since religion, far more than convention, appears
to have been the basis of ancient law . Each generation, as it
passes, modifies no doubt, but only to a very slight extent,
the form of the social bond ; and that not for itself, but for
the generation which succeeds . If therefore we would trace
more clearly the relation of man in his complex individuality
to the yet more complex organism of human society, wherein
each individual has his particular function, we cannot do
better than examine thoroughly the creed of the earliest
civilisation on record . And the side-lights which such an
investigation will be found to show on the political and
social constitution of that remarkable nation, illustrating, in
point after point, peculiarities which hitherto have appeared
24
PREFACE
to be anomalies, appear to me to be strong confirmation of
the principle I have set forth. More striking still, the
religions of other nations of the ancient world become sud-
denly luminous when held up to the Light of Egypt . And
as chord after chord is struck, the full diapason of the
creeds responds .
A singular circumstance, which may illustrate this
remark, arises from the necessity of expressing the secret
analogies between the references to the Light, which
abound in the Ritual, and the Hidden Places of the Great
Pyramid, the " Light of the Egyptian world. For in
dealing with the ideas thus masonified, so to speak, in that
mysterious structure, I have been led, or rather compelled,
to employ phrases and symbols current among the Masonic
brotherhood of the present day, such as Grand Arch, Purple
Arch, Royal Arch, the Star, the Open Angle (the princes of
which as well as the princes of the Circle, are mentioned in the
Papyrus of Sinahit, of very high antiquity), and other insignia
of the craft. Whenever, therefore, such expressions occur-
and they run necessarily through the entire work-it should
be remembered that they are here designed to refer to the
actual masonry of the Grand Pyramid, and the analogous
features of the Ritual of Ancient Egypt . At the same time,
whether any vestige of this secret doctrine of the Light may
survive in the esoteric doctrine of which those subject to
Masonic rules are not permitted to speak, is an interesting
question which naturally suggests itself, though it evidently
cannot be established by open discussion .
The consideration, however, which to my own mind tends
most strongly to confirm the evidence of a connection be-
tween Pyramid and Ritual is, I confess, of a somewhat
personal character . For in order to detect such an analogy,
if it be real, the chief qualification requisite is a certain
patience in collating and analysing the results which others
have obtained in their respective departments of knowledge .
But to call it into existence if not already latent ; to con-
25
PREFACE
struct in imagination the path of the just, and to express it in
terms of the motions of light ; to portray the mystery of the
depths unseen by the mystery of the visible heavens, to
shadow forth the features of light in the passages of pro-
foundest darkness, and its motions in a building which for
ages has remained immutable, that were an intellectual
masterpiece which surely demands nothing less than a
creative genius of the very loftiest order . So majestic is the
outline of the conception as it rises solemnly on the view, so
sublime is every feature of the prospect, now defining, now
transcending, the utmost limits of space and time ; with
such graduated measure, yet such overwhelming splendour,
does it illuminate mystery after mystery of the invisible
world, that I cannot for a moment believe it to be the
offspring of my own imagination . Far more probable does
it seem, that though much of the moral and spiritual imagery
still remain obscure, yet we have here a genuine clue to the
most profound and fascinating enigma of the ancient world ;
and that the more closely we study the Path of Light in its
Masonic form, the more deeply shall we penetrate the
earliest wisdom of which man has left record, and under-
stand the Egyptian belief concerning the dark passage of
death and the Entrance on Eternal Day .
26
CHAPTER I
THE PYRAMID OF LIGHT
CLOSE to the verge of the immense desert which stretches its
arid wastes across the whole breadth of the continent to the
shore of the Western Ocean, just at the apex of the famous
delta which marks the meeting-point of Upper and Lower
Egypt, at the very spot where the busy life of the earliest
civilisation on record was bordered by the vast and barren
solitude, stands the most majestic and most mysterious
monument ever erected by the hand of man. Of all the
other structures which made the marvels of the ancient
world, scarcely a vestige is left . Where are the hanging
gardens, the boast of the monarch of Babylon ? Where is
the far-famed Pharos of Alexandria ? Centuries have passed
since earthquake laid low the Colossus which bestrode the
harbour of Rhodes ; and a madman's hand reduced to
ashes the temple of Artemis, the pride of Ephesus . But the
Grand Pyramid of Gizeh still remains undestroyed and
indestructible, ages after the lesser marvels have passed
away, as it stood ages before ever they came into being .
Certainly more than fifty, it may be more than sixty, cen-
turies) have gone by since that building, which never since
has needed the care of man, first concealed from view its
hidden places, those secret chambers of which no other
building on the globe contains the like. Upwards of two
1 Marsham Adams takes the date of the Fourth Dynasty as being approxi-
mately that given by Brugsch (about 3700 B .C.), whereas Flinders Petrie
fixes it at about 4777 B.C. It will be seen, however, that he modifies his
attitude later.
2 7
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
million times has the sun risen and set upon its mighty walls,
since first the pure and unbroken surface of polished casing-
stones flashed back the rays like a veil of dazzling lustre,
and vindicated its ancient title of The Light .
What the concealed significance may be of that secret
masonry ; by whom, and for what purpose, the complex plan
was designed ; at what epoch the huge structure was erected,
are questions which have perplexed many minds in many
lands, and have resulted in a discord more akin to Babel,
than to the grandeur of its silent majesty . It was built by
the Jews in the days of their captivity, says, or rather said,
one school of theorists . It was built by Chemmis, but
attributed by Egyptians in hatred of him to the Shepherd
Philition, is the account given by Herodotus . It was built
by Ibn Salluk, say the Arabs, just before the Flood, to
preserve the royal treasures from the predicted inundation .
It was built by Melchisedec-or somebody-has been
vehemently asserted by a certain professor of astronomy,
whose writings have always seemed to suggest a whirlwind
of miscellaneous indignation . It was indisputably intended
by the founder for his tomb, one party stoutly maintains-a
tomb in which he left especial instructions that he should not
be buried, and in which nobody could possibly have been
buried, replies another. It was an observatory, maintains a
third-where every place for observation was carefully
closed up, retorts a fourth. It is the " prophetic floor-roll of
human history," screams Professor Smyth-with all the
dates gone wrong, softly sneers Mr. Flinders Petrie 1
Side by side with that masonic mystery, well nigh as
impenetrable at the present moment as when the Hir
Shesta, or " Master of the Secret," was an officer of Pharaoh's
household, has come down to us another enigma, the strange
collections of sacred writings, or Rituals of Ancient Egypt,
1 Now, of course, Sir Flinders Petrie .
2 Commenting on the term Ritual, Marsham Adams says : This title,
which was conferred by Champollion, is vehemently repudiated by Budge,
2 8
THE PYRAMID OF LIGHT
which modern writers have called the Book of the Dead, but
which claims for itself the title of the Book of the Master of
the Hidden Places .", Vivid as is the interest now awakened in
those writings, little progress has been made in elucidating
their meaning . The doctrines inculcated by their religion,
the relations of the worshipper to the object or objects
worshipped, the signification of the particular symbol under
which those relations were at once veiled and expressed, are
but little better understood at the present time, notwith-
standing our greatly increased knowledge of the sacred
writings, than when the hieroglyphs themselves were
undeciphered. Yet strange to say, prominently as these
mysteries stand out in every matter that relates to ancient
Egypt, no one has hitherto thought of collating the masonic
secret of the monument with the doctrinal secret contained
in the mysterious books of Thoth, to whom the origin of
Egyptian wisdom is attributed .2 Such an omission is the
more singular, because indications are not wanting on either
side to hint at the connection . That Khufu (miscalled by the
Greeks, Cheops) should have adopted the pyramidal form in
the hieroglyph of his name is not surprising, as he was the
monarch under whom the building was erected . But it is not
though without any particular reason assigned . But it appears to me to be as
good a word as any which can be used as a popular expression ; though
doubtless the Catholic term, " Office of the Dead," would be preferable if it
were sufficiently familiar to our ears . The title Book of the Dead, devised by
Lepsius, appears to me, I own, singularly unfortunate . For in the first place
the papyrus is not a book, but a collection of sacred writings ; and in the
second, that title appears to refer to the practice of burying copies or parts of
the copy with the mummy ; so that it gives the idea of regarding the holy
departed as dead ; whereas the whole conception of the doctrine was the
entrance of the departed on life and light .
1 This is the title used by Marsham Adams in The House of the Hidden
Places. In The Book of the Master he translates : " The Book of the Master
of the Secret House ." The words are taken from the rubric to Chapter
clxiii of the Ritual, and are rendered by Budge " hidden Temple."
' Marsham Adams said that M . Maspero had courteously informed him
that the same idea had occupied himself, but that he had not published .
2 9
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
perhaps unworthy of notice, that the form of the Pyramid
enters into the hieroglyph of the star Sothis, or Sirius ., For
the Grand Orient, or position of that star when its rising
forms the immediate harbinger of dawn on midsummer
morning, was, as is well known, the great starting-point for
the age-long cycles of the Egyptian reckoning . Arid
whereas the figure usually employed to denote the Pyramid
embraces both the edifice and the rocky platform on which
it is built,2 the form used in the hieroglyph of Sothis con-
sists of the masonic portion alone,a that is to say, the struc-
ture which represented to the Egyptian mind the Eternal
Light, apart from its earthly support ; while a Papyrus
dating from the time of Khufu, the founder of the building,
speaks of Isis as the ruler of the Pyramids* ; and a later
inscription, that of Syene, calls her also the " Mother of
God," and identifies her with " The Divine Sothis, the Star,
the Queen of Heaven ."
Yet it is difficult to conceive a greater contrast than is
presented by the two forms in which the record of Egyptian
doctrine was preserved. The papyri are fragile, numerous,
varying in length and order. The monument in stone is
unique, solid almost to indestructibility, incapable of varia-
tion, and standing unchanged and unchanging regardless of
the assaults, whether of time or man .
I As Marsham Adams points out, when a star rises, not simultaneously with
the sun (in which case the star would be invisible), but just so long before
dawn as to appear for a few moments on the horizon before it is swallowed up
in the growing light, it is said to rise " heliacally," and " the heliacal rising of
Sothis " on the day of the summer Solstice, or midsummer-an event which
occurs every 1461 years (viz . four times 3651)-was the epoch of the
Egyptian secular cycle.
9
A1
a Q
In this connection it is interesting to note that Budge translates the title
of the book as given in the rubric to Chapter clziii as "Book of the Mistress
of the Hidden Temple is its name."
30
THE PYRAMID OF LIGHT
In external appearance the building erected by Khufu
differs only in a single feature from the later pyramids . Like
them it is quadrangular in form and oriented towards the
four cardinal points of the compass . Like the later pyramids
also, within very slight limits of variation, its elevation (as is
well known) is such that the perpendicular height of its
apex bears the same proportion to the circuit of the base as
the radius of a circle bears to its circumference . Like them
also, it is constructed exteriorly in courses of huge stones,
forming a series of steps, each from two to three feet in
height, and level all round the course ; these steps being
now exposed to view, but originally concealed from top to
bottom by perfectly fitting casing stones, which offered no
foothold for ascent and gave to Memphis its sacred title of
the City of the White Wall . But whereas in the later pyra-
mids the building is carried fully up to the apex (or point to
which all the ascending lines converge), in that of Khufu the
structure falls short of that point by about twenty courses,
the pyramid being truncated and the summit forming a
platform about twenty feet square ; so that what the Egyp-
tians called the " Benben," or pyramidal crown, is not to be
found there. Seen from below, the ascending courses
resemble a series of terraces or cliffs, rising majestically to
the cloudless heaven. But from this platform they present
rather the appearance of four streams of stone descending
from a common fount, like the four streams of the celestial
Nile given in the vignette of Chapter cx. And the four
together encircle the whole building in a cascade of rock,
thus illustrating the " Beating Circle of the Waters," which
we find inscribed in the same vignette ; an illustration, it is
to be observed, which could not have been detected by an
Egyptian of old (while the casing stones were still un-
removed) unless he had been taught the concealed con-
struction of the building.
From the fact that this peculiar feature is confined to the
Great Pyramid, or at least for no other apparent reason,
3I
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
modern writers have assumed it to have been originally
shaped like the rest, and have attributed the present height
to havoc supposed to have been made by the Turks . But
though those barbarous destroyers were indeed capable of
stripping off the casing stones, many of which still lie in
confusion around the foot, while others have been plundered
for the buildings of Cairo ; yet to destroy a solid mass of
masonry, firmly cemented together, over thirty feet high,
with a base of four thousand square inches, and that at an
elevation of upwards of four hundred feet from the ground,
was a task which would require a very different class of
engineer to accomplish . Besides which, we have a direct
chain of evidence from three different sources to the con-
trary, extending back for nearly two thousand years, that is
to say, to the time before the destruction had begun . About
two hundred and fifty years ago, Professor Greaves, the
Oxford astronomer, who visited the pyramid and had left
a most interesting volume upon it, gives a drawing of the
building which shows the summit shaped just as at present .
Four hundred years before his time, Abdallatif, a historian
of the twelfth century, tells us that at the top of the Great
Pyramid ended in a platform. And fifty years before the
Christian era, Diodorus describes the building as " tapering
up as far as the summit, which makes each of the sides six
cubits."
Equally conclusive is the evidence borne by the building
itself, the summit of which betrays no symptom either of
incompletion or destruction, but presents a flat surface,
structurally enroofing the Secret House . On the centre of
the platform and inseparably affixed to it are some huge
blocks arranged in the figure of a rough cross . And on the
highest of these stones are sculptured a number of holes,
forming a square figure, consisting of seven ranks of seven
holes each, exactly similar (except in the number of holes)
to the " Hotep " or Table of Offerings, belonging to the
time of Thothmes III, which is now to be seen in the
3z
THE PYRAMID OF LIGHT
Museum at Boulaq., In a word, every detail goes to show
that the founder never designed to erect the Benben-the
image of the Trinity invisible in the supreme height-but
raised a " Hotep," or sacrificial Table of Offering . And
agreeably with this, we find in the chapter already quoted
C
GATEWAY OF THE DOUBLE ARCH .
entrance to the pyramid, opening at the seventeenth course,
is hidden from view. But on mounting to the fifteenth step
we perceive, two courses yet above us, a low gateway, sur-
1 See note A, p. 165.
2 Cf. also The Book of Breathings, Part I, i, 3.
33
SUMMIT OF GREAT PYRAMID . HIEROGLYPH OF THE
CENTRAL TRANSVERSE SECTION . " HOTEP"
that mention is made of the " Field of the Hotep," and of
the Waters in the Field of the Hotep,2 reminding us of the
stone cataracts which descend from the summit .
To an observer immediately at the foot, the single
11
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
mounted by a double arch, opening downward to the dark
interior; just as the catechumen in the fifteenth chapter
approaches the " double-arched gate of the horizon," when
he invokes " Haroueris, the great guide of the world, the
guide of the souls in their secret places, the Light dwelling
in the Horizon." From this point the first veil of secrecy
begins. For so effectually was the opening concealed from
the uninstructed eye by a revolving stone, that its position
once forgotten was almost impossible to recover ; and for
two hundred years after passing under the barbarous Omar,
the building remained impenetrable, until Caliph Al
Mamoon, in the ninth century of our era, forced an opening
at random through the solid masonry, and hit accidentally
upon the entrance passage . Entering by the low gateway
thus built in the northern side at a considerable height above
the ground, we see before us the grave-like passage gaping
downwards and southwards to the depths of darkness and
pointing outwards and northwards to the Pole Star, the star
of the Purple Arch-that boundary point of mortal vision at
which, as at the entrance of the grave, the finite mystery of
earth passes into the mystery of the infinite heaven . As we
cross the gate on the seventeenth course, we recognise the
point where, in the seventeenth chapter, the catechumen is
admitted as a postulant and exclaims : " I go from the Gate
of Taser (the Ascent). What is the Gate of Taser ? It is the
Gate where the God Shu (the Light) lifts the disc of heaven .
The Gate of the North is the Gate of the Great God," he
continues, speaking evidently of the same gate ; exactly as in
the pyramid the only entrance is the Gate of the Ascent in
the seventeenth course of the northern face .,
1 Budge gives Tchesert instead of Taser, which he lists as one of the Gods
of the Book of the Dead. See Gods of the Egyptians, ii, p . 344. It is apparent,
however, that the hieroglyphics could well yield Taser as an alternative, and,
in view of the context, more probable reading . In any event Tschesert means
Holy, and it is to be noted that Dr . Davis gives yet another rendering, namely
" the Gate Set," and Set means Mountain. In the Ritual, Chapter xvii, 14,
we have Set-Amentet, The Mountain of the Hidden Place .
34
THE PYRAMID OF LIGHT
Bidding now with him farewell to the light of earthly day,
and treading the descending passage, we pass, some little
way down, a very fine and beautifully ruled double line,'
scored perpendicularly on the slanting wall so as to point
downwards to the foundation, and separating the upper from
the lower section of the passage ; corresponding to the point
in the Ritual where the departed, hitherto bereft of every
faculty except that of motion, begins to have his faculties
gradually restored to him. Continuing the long descent, we
arrive at an aperture in the western wall, and passing through
the opening thus disclosed, mount gently into a kind of
grotto at the bottom of a well, or square perpendicular shaft,
with footholds cut in the precipitous sides. Into that
Chamber of the Deep Waters the postulant descends on the
western side, as the sun at the close of day goes down into
the western waters, and bursts forth in splendour on the
hidden world.
Returning from the bottom of the well to the passage, and
pursuing our course still .farther downwards, we come, after a
short level continuation, to the subterranean chamber, or the
Place of Fiery Ordeal, a chamber hewn out of the solid rock,
and having an inaccessible floor covered with huge blocks of
varying height, resembling a pool of petrified flame, or
masses of the mountain chains formed by the action of the
earth's central fire ; beyond which terrible chamber a small
passage leads to nothingness . Resuming our exploration of
the edifice and coming forth from the Place of Ordeal or
' Marsham Adams says : The detection of this line is connected with a
circumstance of a highly singular character, which seemed at one time to lend
some appearance of support to the historic theories of Professor Smyth . It was
due not to any measurer or observer of the Pyramid, but to a student who had
never seen the building, but believed that if the professor's theories were
correct, some such special mark would point out that particular spot . Exami-
nation being made-for the professor had never noticed it-the prediction
proved to be true ; an act of divination which would have been remarkable
enough if these theories had been true, but which seems strange indeed when
one considers their palpable error .
3 5
U1N /
Io
VIoft
41
„11
h
ypl~~l
INTERIOR OF THE SECRET HOUSE
CALLED BY THE EGYPTIANS OF OLD 'THE LIGHT i
Throughout all the following Chapters'constant reference should be made to this diagram
THE PYRAMID OF LIGHT
subterranean chamber we remount the entrance passage
until, at a little distance below the scored line, we come to a
granite gate, or portcullis, built in the roof. This important
gate, which originally was totally hidden by masonry and
was only discovered by the falling of a stone when Al
Mamoon was forcing his entrance into the Pyramid, stands
at the threshold of the Double Hall of Ascent concealed
within. Not only was the whole gate carefully hidden, but
the lower portion of the passage within was blocked with
enormous stones, still unremoved, and perhaps irremovable .
So even now the lintel is hidden, and admission is only
effected through a hole forced by violence in the wall of the
passage above the blocks ; while a precisely similar difficulty
attends the crossing of the Lintel of Justice in the Ritual
before entering the Double Hall of Truth . Creeping with
difficulty through the hole, we find ourselves in a small, low
corridor, the floor-line of which (about 1,561 inches in total
length) slightly projects beyond the gateway at the upper
end ; the whole corridor being inclined upwards at an
elevation slightly less than that of the depression of the
entrance passage, and corresponding to the lower portion of
the Hall of Truth where the Initiate justifies himself before
the forty-two judges of the unseen world, " the Gods of the
Horizon and the Gods of the Orbit."
Then, stooping beneath the low gateway, by which it is
terminated (but not obstructed) at the top, the " Gateway of
the Festival," we stand upon a kind of landing-place, from
which the whole system of the interior passages opens out.
On every side is " the crossing of the pure roads of life " of
which the coffin of Amamu speaks. Straight in front runs a
level passage leading direct to the place of the divine birth
mentioned in the Ritual, the Chamber of the Moon, the
Queen's Chamber, the place of " Isis, the divine mother, the
queen of the pyramid," as an ancient papyrus calls her ;
corresponding to the place where the soul receives its second
birth. Within that chamber, on the eastern wall, is sculp-
3 7
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
tured a staircase of five ascents, representing the five
degrees ascended each month by the moon, wherein,
according to Egyptian teaching, Osiris, the divine son of
Isis, each month renewed his birth . `
On the western side is the opening to the mouth of the
well, " The gate of Anruhf " leading down to the " roads of
darkness ;" and down the ladder of the shaft (as we see in the
papyrus of Ani) the regenerate soul, on coming forth from
the Chamber of Second Birth, descends to become united
with the postulant awaiting it in the Well of Life. Then,
when the soul is restored, initiation takes place and strength
is given to endure the ordeal .
Before us lie the fields of Aahlu, the blessed country
where the justified executes the works, which he is privileged
to perform for Osiris . " I have digged in Anruhf," he says
later on, " I have drilled the holes," the holes, that is, for the
good seed, the corn which grew seven cubits high, the holes
which are drilled in the ramps of the Southern Ascending
Passage, but to which no significance has yet been attached .,
And upwards towards the south, above the roof of the
passage leading to the Queen's Chamber, runs this upper
ascending corridor, called by some writers the Grand
Gallery, forming the upper portion of the Hall of Truth, the
Grand Lodge, or Luminous Chamber of the Orbit. This
remarkable chamber consists of a corridor, about one
hundred and fifty-seven feet long and twenty feet high, built
entirely on a slope, floor, walls and roof, except a small
portion at the southern or upper end . On either side of the
sloping floor are twenty-eight ramps, with corresponding
depressions ; the floor-line at the upper end being closed
abruptly, just above the Queen's Chamber, by an immense
stone forming a dais, or Throne of Judgment . From the
lower entrance of the chamber at the northern end to the
1 Since the date at which Marsham Adams wrote, an attempted explanation
has been put forward by Davidson and Aldersmith in The Great Pyramid
Its Divine Message, section 2o8a, p. r8o-i.
3 8
THE PYRAMID OF LIGHT
foot of the throne is about i,8 16 inches, the height of the
throne is 36 inches, and the length of the seat about 61
inches, so that when the darkness is lit up by torches, it
forms the most conspicuous and dominating feature of that
marvellous chamber . At the back of the throne the gallery
is brought to an abrupt termination by the southern wall
closing down within a few feet of the seat, and leaving as an
exit farther south a narrow and grave-like tunnel . In the
sloping roof of the gallery, running downwards from south
to north at a somewhat greater inclination than the floor, are
thirty-six over-lappings, like the waves of a river of light, and
corresponding to the number of decades of days in the orbit
of the Egyptian year. On the side wall of the dais at the
upper end of the gallery are also seven over-lappings, one
above another, arching over to the summit as if representing
the orbits of the planets, and having the effect of rays of light
petrified in the masonry around the throne . And in the
position corresponding to the orbit of our own globe runs a
deep groove, or orbit, along its entire length, offering a close
connection between the " Orbit " and the " Passage of the
Sun in the Double Hall of Truth," in the Ritual. Above the
throne rises the habitation of the " seven great spirits in the
service of their Lord, the Creator," who, the sacred books
tell us, " protect the coffin of Osiris " ; while from its
loftiest point a passage, inaccessible from below-the
Opening of Hathor," to use the language of the Ritual-
leads to the secret heights. In that Hall of Splendour
dominated by the throne of Light the justified receives his
Illumination and Investiture .
Now comes the most mysterious portion of the building.
Stripped of its noble proportions and reduced to an altitude
so low that a man must creep on hand and knee to pass, the
passage pierces the southern wall of the upper gallery, and
runs straight on, first into the ante-chamber, or " Place of
Preparation," and then into the splendid hall called the
King's Chamber, in the most secluded portion of the
39
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
building. In each of these halls is one, and only one, object .
In the ante-chamber is a kind of veil of masonry, which no
one can pass without bowing the head. In the King's
Chamber is a sarkophagus, not closed, but open ; while the
air-channels, wherewith this deeply buried room is amply
ventilated, proclaim that it is not a chamber of the dead, but
of the living, corresponding to the place of resurrection
where, in the final chapter of the Ritual, Osiris is awakened
from his slumbers. In this portion of the building the
structure changes its material for granite, forming, as it
were, a house by itself within the pyramid ; an inner house
yet, within the house of Osiris, entered by the low and grave-
like passage leading from behind the throne. This is the
House of Glory described on the coffin of Amamu already
quoted, the house to which the illuminate approaches, after
passing the tribunal of Osiris. Here is the " Gate of the
Pure Spirits," which they alone can enter who are washed
in the waters of life, and radiant with the splendours of the
Orbit. And here, too, it would seem, takes place the solemn
address, described in the Sai-an-Sinsin, " of the Gods in the
House of Osiris," followed by the response of the " Gods in
the House of Glory " ; the joyous song of the holy departed
who stand victorious before the judgment-seat, echoed
triumphantly by the inner chorus of their beloved who have
gone before them into the fulness of light . Over the chamber
of the Open Tomb, are the hidden heights, the secret spaces,
the " Secret Places of Heaven," once completely closed and
constituting the most secret of the Hidden Places . To them
leads the " Empyrean Gate " (" the opening of Hathor," the
Queen of Imperishable Beauty, as the Ritual calls it) ; and
the whole is dominated and crowned by a gigantic triangle
of granite, immutably expressing the divine Trinity of
Egypt.
Such is the complex and hitherto wholly unexplained
system of gateways and passages, shafts, channels and
chambers ; some leading upwards, some leading downwards,
40
THE PYRAMID OF LIGHT
some level ; some rough in the last degree, others exquisitely
polished ; some magnificent in their proportions, some so
low that a man must creep, so narrow that he can with
difficulty pass, to be found within the Pyramid of Light. It
is absolutely unique ; no other building, it may be safely
averred (not even among the later pyramids), having con-
tained any structure bearing the least resemblance to the
higher chambers . Striking as it is in every feature, the most
remarkable circumstance of all is the evident intention of the
architect to preserve that secrecy which lends a majesty to
the strange theosophy of Egypt .
What then was the design, the secret and jealously
guarded design, with which this wondrous edifice was con-
structed ? That its various features are meaningless, or the
result of caprice, is a suggestion to which the forethought
and lavishness of calculation displayed in every detail un-
mistakably give the lie. Nor again can we maintain that they
are necessary for the purposes of an ordinary tomb . For, in
the first place they are not to be found in other pyramids
which were used for that purpose ; and secondly, if there be
any intention which the architect has openly manifested, it
is to create such a series of obstructions that no human body
could be buried therein .
In truth, the Great Pyramid is the House of a Tomb ; but
it is not a closed but an open tomb . It is the tomb not of a
man, but of a god ; not of the dead, but of the risen . It is
the tomb of the divine Osiris, whose birth on earth, descent
into the underworld, victory over the serpent Apep, resurrec-
tion and judgment of the dead, were the most prominent
features in the creed of Egypt, and in union with whom the
holy departed achieved the path of illumination, and passed
in safety the divine tribunal .
Viewed in this light, the practical value of the structure
begins to become clear. On that doctrine rested the whole
organisation of social life among the ancient Egyptians .
The kalendar, the festivals, the duties of the monarch, the
4I
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
rights of the priesthood, the relations of the provinces to
their paramount temples, all were illustrated in the Path of
Light. Endless confusion, therefore, in the State would
result, no less than injury to the religion, from any miscon-
struction or misrepresentation of doctrine (such as seems to
have taken place under Khu en Aten) ; a circumstance all
the more likely to occur on account of the obscurity of the
symbols employed.
Now the masonic symbolism of the Great Pyramid affords
a simple and practically indestructible means for perpetuat-
ing the doctrine of Egyptian wisdom . That expression, once
formulated, was never repeated ; the other tombs and pyra-
mids of Egypt claiming kinship only by subordinate and
particular features with the work of the Grand Master .
While, then, the written records of the Ritual, none of
which now extant probably possess a higher date than that
of Khufu,1 were liable to change and error, no lapse of time
could impair, no variations could affect in the secret places,
the masonry of the Pyramid of Light. This embodiment, at
once secret and unalterable, forming literally a Masonic
Ritual of the whole doctrine of Light, accounts for the
singularly piecemeal fashion in which the sacred words were
committed to writing .
1 Cf., however, note i, p . 48.
42
CHAPTER II
THE SECRET SCROLL
" THis Book is the Greatest of Mysteries . Do not let the
eye of anyone look upon it-that were abomination . The
Book of the Master of the Secret House is its name.", So runs
the emphatic declaration in the great papyrus of which we
have made such frequent mention ; and the whole contents
are in harmony with it. For throughout there is scarcely a
paragraph the expression of which is not studiously obscure
and difficult of interpretation . Yet recondite as are both
subject and form, we find in it a clue, in some degree at least,
to penetrate the mystical teaching of the Egyptian priest-
hood, that is to say, the doctrines which they taught not
merely as to the nature of the Creator and his original
relation to the creature, but also as to the means whereby
the creature is admitted to participate in the mysteries of the
Creator.
The papyrus in question, which was found in the coffin of
a priest named Auf Ankh, is now preserved at Turin. And
a facsimile of it was published by Lepsius in A.n. 1842 . That
distinguished Egyptologist thought good to call it the Book
of the Dead; a title which usage has rendered almost too
familiar to disturb, but which, in itself, is by no means
happy, for it gives the idea of regarding the holy departed as
1 This is the end of the Rubric to Chapter clxiii. Budge renders it as fol-
lows : " This is a composition of exceedingly great mystery . Let not the eye
of any man whatsoever see it, for it is an abominable thing for (every man)
to know it ; therefore hide it. Book of the Mistress of the Hidden Temple is
its name." Cf. note 4, p . 30, also note r, p . 29.
4 3
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
dead, whereas the whole conception of the doctrine was the
instruction in Life and Light ., A much better description
is that given by Champollion, who called it the Funereal
Ritual ; and although Dr. Budge vehemently controverts
that title, his objections are urged with more warmth than
force.$ But neither one term nor the other can, it is clear,
compete in authority with that which the papyrus claims for
itself, namely the Book or Scroll of the Master of the Secret
House.
The whole history of the sacred writings among which
this papyrus is perhaps the most important yet discovered, is
by no means free from difficulty . They are made up of a
great number of chapters, composed at various periods
extending over several centuries, and they occur sometimes
carved on the walls of the tombs, but more often written on
papyrus and hidden in the grave-clothes of the mummy .
Frequently only one chapter is employed, but often also a
considerable number, though no papyrus has yet been dis-
covered containing in one the whole series of chapters .
These sacred writings are usually divided by Egyptologists
into four collections, according to the different periods to
which they belong. The first is that of the ancient empire,
written in hieroglyphics, to which the important inscription
on the coffin of Amamu belongs . Then comes the Theban
recension, also in hieroglyphics, of which the papyri have
been with great labour collated and published by M .
Naville ; followed during the succeeding (twentieth) Dynasty
1 An exactly similar purpose informs the Thibetan Bardo, which has been
called The Thibetan Book of the Dead. See the excellent translation edited by
Mr. Evans Wentz. Cf. also the text of Unas (1, 206 f.) : "Thou hast not
gone dying, 0 Unas, but living hast thou gone to sit upon the throne of
Osiris."
2 Sir E. A. Wallis Budge, however, is emphatic that the title Book of the
Dead is unsatisfactory and inappropriate . He would prefer to use REU NU
PERT EM HRU, as he transliterates the hieroglyphics, which he renders " Chap-
ters of Coming Forth by Day ."
44
THE SECRET SCROLL
by another written in hieratic or priestly characters. And
last of all we have the recensions of the (twenty-sixth) Saite
Dynasty, to which the Book of the Master is due.
During the later ages, at least, there can be little doubt
that papyri were prepared for sale with a blank left for the
name of the mummy, to be filled up before placing in the
the coffin. But it does not follow that this was the custom in
earlier ages, and the rarity of inscription on the tombs of
that period tends to contradict the probability . Neither is it
likely that every chapter of the Ritual was open to every
purchaser. On the contrary, it is by no means improbable
that, as the whole country of Egypt represented various
stages in the path of the deceased, so the chapters employed
in the various localities may have varied also either in their
order or in a portion of their wording. And this latter sup-
position would account for the different readings which we
find introduced, especially in the Book of the Master ; imply-
ing not (as we with the characteristic carelessness of modern
times suppose) an ignorance or indifference on the part of
the priests, but a collection of texts, to be duly chosen, one
or other, according to circumstances . Moreover, from
several allusions in the writings, we find that the efficacy
attached to them arose from the deceased having been
permitted to become acquainted with them during lifetime,
so that the papyrus attested the instruction in Wisdom of
which the deceased was possessed at death . Now the object
with which that instruction was conferred was the union of
the departed with Osiris, the Creator, in virtue of which
union we find the title of the Osiris prefixed in the papyri to
the name of the departed, somewhat as we ourselves prefix
the title of saint to the names of those who shine like the
light, and as the stars for ever and ever. And this again
agrees with the direction given, for instance in the Book of
the Master, that the recitation is to commence on the day of
the funeral, and accounts for the frequent commencement
of the chapters with the words, " Saith the Osiris Auf
45
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
Ankh " ; implying that the whole Ritual was recited by the
departed through the mouth of the priest .
The chief difficulty in understanding that book of
mystery arises not merely from the great variety of the
imagery, but much more from the complexity of its applica-
tion. For the figures which are drawn from all kinds of
familiar objects are rarely or never employed singly, so as to
present a definite image whereby the signification might
perhaps be detected ; but parts of two or three are always
used together, so as to present no meaning except to the
instructed. Thus, for example, we find the holy departed
addressed as " Osiris the Bull of the West,"' meaning the
Strong One of heaven ; the union of Osiris being assumed as
begun, and the image being taken partly from the generative
power of the bull and partly from the setting sun, which
goes down into the west to illuminate the unseen world .
Occasionally, also, the image of the doctrine signified is itself
conveyed by another image . Thus Professor Renouf has
shown how the partial eclipse of the sun, which is caused by
the intervention of a planet, was represented by the Egyp-
tians under the form of a tortoise crawling across the disc, and
that the image of the tortoise is applied in the papyri to the par-
tial obscuration of Osiris' Godhead by his temporary deaths
Among the different images, however, there is one class
which in this papyrus occurs with a frequency unsurpassed
except by those of light, namely, those which relate to some
form of building. Such allusions become vocal only when
applied to the Pyramid of Light . To this class belong the
festivals of the " Northern Passage " and of the " Southern
Passage," that of the " Hidden Lintel," that of " Osiris who
dwells in the Roofed House " and in the " Pool of the
' " Bull of the West " was one of the commonest names of Osiris . Cf. also
the Papyrus of Ani, Chapter i (¢) where the departed addresses Osiris as
" O Bull of Amentet."
$. The phrase " The Tortoise dies, Ra Lives " is employed four times in
Chapter clxi.
4 6
THE SECRET SCROLL
Great House.", So in the kalendar of Esne we read of the
" Festival of the Sockets," and again of the " Opening of the
Doors," which is closely connected in the Ritual with the
" Chapter of the Orientation " and the raising of Osiris
from the Open Tomb. The whole progress of the departed
seems, in fact, to take place in some kind of house . The
Ritual is full of references to his " Going in " and " Coming
out," to " Going in after coming out," to passing gates and
gateways, and doors and staircases . And though no doubt
the secret places there mentioned have also a mystical sig-
nificance, and refer to those secret places of the universe
wherein, according to Egyptian belief, man, when set free
from the flesh, was initiated into the mysteries of creation,
yet inasmuch as that doctrine was to be learned while still on
earth, so it was necessary that there should be a house on
earth wherein those places should be illustrated. Indeed the
very titles employed, whether in the written or the masonic
record, point directly, though secretly, to each other . And
where else shall we look for such a building if not in that
great house wherein, according to the Egyptian tradition,
the Secret Wisdom was imparted to the postulant ; that
house, the hidden places of which claimed for their Master
the Master of the Secret Scroll ; that house whereof every
feature and every proportion speak of the measurement of
the universe ?
Again, it was during the time of the Saite Dynasty that
the order of the chapters is said to have been fixed for the
first time. What canon, then, or standard of order did the
revisers employ ? It certainly was not the relative antiquity
of the chapters, for the only one which claims to remount
to the First Dynasty stands one hundred and thirtieth in the
1 Marsham Adams' allusion is to the Pool of the Maati, which he places
at the bottom of the well . Whether there is not a more literal interpretation
than this is, however, an interesting speculation . According to Herodotus
there should be an island beneath the pyramid, surrounded by waters from
the Nile introduced by means of an artificial duct .
4 7
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
papyrus ; while that which is attributed in it to the Fourth
Dynasty, and which is entitled the " Entrance on Light in
One Chapter," as though it had once been the single
chapter in use, comes sixty-fourth.' But while the written
records were liable to variability and error, no change could
affect, no lapse of time could impair, the record erected in
stone three thousand years before by the astronomer-
architect Khufu. And thus as early as the Twelfth Dynasty,'
the inscription on the coffin of Amamu, buried in the sacred
city of Abydos, shows that the secret places determine the
order of the Ritual . " Thou hast not gone dying," we read,
" thou hastgone living to Osiris . Now thou hastfound the words
of order, the Mystery of the Secret Places. "a What sudden
significance, then, attaches to the title " Ta Khut," " The
Light," whereby the Great Pyramid, that monument of
flame, was known to the Pharaohs, when, turning to the
sacred papyri, we find the title of the opening chapter to be
Pir M Hru, or Entrance on Light4-that is, not the light of
common day, which the deceased was quitting, but, as is
shown by the image of the setting sun, wherewith the
descent of the tomb was always associated, of the Invisible
Light of the Unseen World, renewed forever in the splen-
dour of Osiris.b For the doctrine contained in those mystic
writings was nothing else than an account of the Path pur-
sued by the just when, the bonds of the flesh being loosed,
he passed through stage after stage of spiritual growth-the
1 It is impossible to assign a date for the introduction of the Ritual into
Egypt, but it is generally admitted that it was well known before the First
Dynasty. Although Marsham Adams alludes to only one chapter as claiming
to remount to the First Dynasty, namely the one hundred and thirtieth,
Budge also assigns the sixty-fourth thereto and says of it that " judging from
the title it would seem that as early as Semti's time these Chapters had become
so numerous that it was all-important to compose, or edit one of the chapters
which then existed, in such a way that it should contain all the knowledge
necessary to the dead for their salvation." The Book ofthe Dead, Vol. i, p. xxxvi.
a Budge gives Eleventh. 8 Cf. note r, p . 44. 4 Cf. note 2, p. 44.
e Cf. Chapter clxiv.
4 8
THE SECRET SCROLL
Entrance on Light, the Instruction in Wisdom, the Second
Birth of the Soul, the Initiation in the Well of Life, the
Ordeal of Fire, and the Justification in Judgment ; until,
illumined in the secret Truth and adorned with the jewels of
Immortality, he became indissolubly united with Him whose
name, says the Egyptian Ritual,' " is Light, Great Creator."
And that secret doctrine which the Ritual gives in writing,
the Secret House materialises in its immutable masonry.
And so closely does the path embodied in that masonry
correspond with the Path as described in the sacred writings,
that the traveller who to-day penetrates those mysterious
recesses may follow almost step by step the mystical pro-
gress of the holy departed through the grace and gate of
death to the final resurrection of the Open Tomb .
In short, in the double symbolism of the Pyramid and
Ritual lie both the chief difficulties of decipherment and
the strongest evidence of their correspondence. For as the
departed in his progress was to become, as we have already
indicated, united in the fulness of intimacy with his Creator,
so it was necessary that he should progress in the knowledge
of the mysteries which envelop alike the spiritual and the
material creation . To know Osiris in his forms of manifesta-
tion was the secret of power, to " understand Osiris in all
his names, Osiris in all his places," conferred the crown of
illumination. But in the attainment of the infinite knowledge
there were many stages which must be traversed by the
finite mortal, many grades which must be achieved by the
holy departed, when the mouth of the tomb, the portal of
Eternal Day, had been opened for him, and the Catechumen
of the Divine Wisdom had been admitted as the Postulant
of Immortality. The " inner man " or " person " of the
deceased, the " Ka " (or postulant with the upraised arms,')
must be re-created in incorruption, the soul must be born
anew, before that postulant could be initiated into things
D
' Cf. Chapter clxiv.
49
Q U
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
divine ; the Initiate must pass the fiery ordeal, and become
approved as Adept ; the Adept must be justified in the
Tribunal of Truth, before he could emerge from the shadow
of the Halls of Death into the immediate presence of the
Source of Light. The justified must become the Illuminate,
the Illuminate must be consummated as Master, before he
could attain the innermost mansion of the divine house of
Osiris. For each of such grades, ' according to the creed of
Egypt, the Creator has assigned a distinct locality in the great
exterior manifestion of Himself, the universe of space ; and
each of these localities is described symbolically in the books of
the mystical Ritual, and inscribed masonically in the features
and the dimensions of the Hidden Places of the Pyramid .
Not to every one, therefore, did that house lie open, nor
could there be a more unpardonable offence than the profana-
tion of its secrets.' So, too, the secrecy enjoined by the
Ritual was enforced by the structure of the building ; nor
was it ever violated so long as Egypt remained Egyptian .
And as it was the characteristic of that religion to be con-
cealed, and as the manifestation of the Creator is deeper and
more secret yet than the knowledge of His works, so it was
essential that the symbols relating to Him, and to the con-
nection of man with Him, should not betray their deepest
mysteries even to the Initiate ; but should reserve their more
secret meaning for the Illuminate after full probation.
Here, then, was the problem which lay before the first Hir
Shesta, the " Master of the Secret," the originator of the
" wisdom of the Egyptians " ; to express, but in expressing
to conceal, to veil, but with a veil of light, the mysteries of
the Deity; to choose such symbols as would, without
betraying their nature, convey their living energy, their
illuminative power, and, above all, their clear illimitable
endurance. No ordinary image, it is clear, no mineral, no
animal, no plant, no man, could suffice for an expression
such as this. Only the orbs of heaven, obeying in their
i See the beginning of this chapter and note r, p. 43-
'50
THE SECRET SCROLL
lustrous course the laws that know no change, could fulfil
the required conditions. Alike in the pictured and the masonic
record the path of the just is traced amid the shining worlds,
and his progress measured in the terms of celestial motion .
A remarkable instance is that of the orbit of the earth,
involving a knowledge of the rotation of the earth on its
axis, and its revolution around the sun, on which rested the
ancient kalendar of Egypt. The " Lord of the Orbit " (Neb
Sennen) was a title of the Egyptian monarch. And in the
Pyramid we find the orbit, together with many other
phenomena, masonically expressed on the walls of the mag-
nificent and unique upper Chamber of Ascent. Similarly,
another great astronomical conception, namely the horizon,
runs not only through the Book of the Dead, but through all
the funereal imagery of the country, as in the Sai-an-Sinsin,
or Book of the Migration of the Soul' ; and in that of Queen
Anchnes-ra-neferab8 and other papyri . What horizon then
is the " horizon of heaven," to which such mystery attaches,
and what is its apex, the Grand Zenith of the celestial dome ?
We have no such general conception, and consequently our
ideas of the celestial mechanism lack something of sim-
plicity. But suppose that on the day of Equinox, the equal
division of light and darkness, we are standing on the
Equator, the equal divider of the earth into the hemispheres of
north and south, and that we take up our position, say at the
point where it is cut by the meridian of Memphis, close to
the lake from whence flow the waters of the life-giving river .
At our feet is spread the great plane passing through the
celestial poles, and bounded by the Purple Arch which
encircles the floor of the starry dome . From the midst of our
horizon on that day rises the sun right upwards,a and at the
I Otherwise rendered the Book of Breathings.
2 Queen of Ahmes II, circa 564-526 B.C.
s Marsham Adams points out that the conception here described, though
not explicitly defined by our astronomers, is implicitly contained in the terms
Right (or direct) Ascension, the mounting straight upwards of the stars ;
and Declination, or the falling off on either side from the equinoctial plane.
5'
(FROM POLE TO POLE)
AS SEEN ONLY FROM EQUATOR ON NIGHT OF EQUINOX
They whirl in fire behind Him"
THE "HORIZON OF HEAVEN ."
THE SECRET SCROLL
summit of his course, where day by day he equally divides
the heaven east and west, on that day alone he equally
divides also the Grand Arch, or Grand Meridian, which rises
transverse from the same horizon, and stretches from pole
to pole of the azure depths . Then we shall have marked out
the four cardinal points of the universal sphere-the four
points whereby the sides of the Pyramid of Light were
defined ; the fiery seats, according to the Egyptian theo-
sophy, of the four " Sons of Light," whereof the most
famous was Hapi, the presiding Spirit of the Nile . Into that
Grand Horizon too, when the equal day is done, the sun
passes beneath the western waters . And out of it, the whole
host of stars, from pole to pole, in serried array, each pre-
serving his appointed distance from the solar path, follow
him through the silent night-the " night of reckoning the
spirits " ; one-half springing into light as their leader
disappears, the rest completing their numbers, just in time
to herald his return from the eastern point of the same
Grand Horizon . " The road is of Fire," says the Ritual ;
" they whirl in fire behind him."
Now this horizon seems strikingly indicated by the
entrance passage of the Great Pyramid, which, as is well
known, may be defined by reference to the position of the
Pole Star. For taking as the date of the Fourth Dynasty that
given by Dr. Brugsch (about 3700 B.C.),1 we find that about
two hundred and sixty years later (3440 B.c.), the Pole Star
of the period (Alpha Draconis) occupied, as Professor
Smyth has pointed out, just that position ; so that it would
.shine right down the passage . And thus the disciples of the
1 Marsham Adams here states that " in deference to the very high authority
of Dr. Brugsch, on all matters connected with Egyptian history, I have
adopted, and still adhere to the date which he estimated for the Great
Pyramid. The recent discoveries of Flinders Petrie may perhaps point to an
earlier date ; and the question cannot be considered as settled ; but on such a
point the general harmony with other historical records is the supreme test
and of that knowledge none was more skilled than the great master whom we
have recently lost." Cf. note r, p . 27.
5 3
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
Master of the Secret, who in successive generations must
have watched for more than two centuries the approach of
the star, would receive in its final co-ordination the most
convincing proof of the truth of those astronomical relations,
wherein their mystical religion was embodied.]L Hence when
we read in the Ritual, of the " Good Paddle of the North,
the Opener of the Disc," we recall at once the narrow
paddle-shaped passage widened at the entrance towards the
north, which opens the sacred interior to the outer universe ;
the pointer of the dial which sweeps through space, indicat-
ing perennially the position occupied by each successive
star, which for a brief period of centuries keeps watch before
the pole.
Nobly indeed does this stupendous monument respond to
the mystic title which once it bore . Surrounded by darkness
as profound as that which the Almighty has made His
secret place ; in the midst of scenery invisible to the eye,
but faithfully portraying the glories of the celestial expanse,
the Grand Architect has set up the throne which the lapse
of ages has no power to impair, and has indelibly inscribed
in its secret places the immutable path of the just in charac-
ters of light, embodied in the unvarying motions of the
heavenly orbs .
1 Marsham Adams says : During my late visit to Egypt, one of my principal
objects was to test this relation ; and I confess that the confirmation I obtained
afforded me nothing less than amazement. For, in common with the rest of
the world, I had always believed that no single hieroglyphic is to be found on
the exterior of the building . But on arriving at the fifteenth step, the very
step I had specially mentioned, where the entrance shaft, hidden from an
observer standing immediately below, lies fully exposed to view, I saw a
single immense hieroglyph, deeply sculptured, immediately above the en-
trance ; and that hieroglyph was no other than the hieroglyph I
v l
of the " Horizon of Heaven." Had the founder of the building
desired to confirm my views by a single stroke, in his own silent and absolute
fashion, he could not have adopted a more efficacious plan than by placing
that particular hieroglyph in that particular position .
54
CHAPTER III
THE HOUSE OF OSIRIS
AMONG the innumerable transformations witnessed by the
present century of revolution,' none has a more startling
character than that of the resurrection of primaeval Egypt .
For more than a thousand years from the day when the
barbarous Omar celebrated the funeral rites of the ancient
learning in the flames of the great Library at Alexandria, to
the day when Champollion, like another Sothis, heralded the
dawn of a new era of Egyptian brilliance, an ever-growing
obscurity buried the entire land . Less than a century has
elapsed since the most appalling penalties, in this world and
the next, were fulminated by the Sultan against an official
who should dare to allow a Christian " to approach the
sacred port of Suez, the starting-point of the holy Haj ."
To-day that port is the crowded entrance of the most cos-
mopolitan highway of the globe . For centuries Egypt, as it
was the earliest, so it was the most jealously guarded seat of
Moslem law. To-day its courts recognise a multiplex
jurisdiction of alien nations, for which no precedent exists
in the history of any other state .' Within living memory its
hieroglyphs were an enigma hopelessly abandoned ; its
' Marsham Adams' two books were published in 1895 and 1898 respec-
tively.
2 Marsham Adams says : The case of the Holy Roman Empire may perhaps
suggest itself as a precedent ; for foreign princes undoubtedly sat in the Diet .
But these princes had jurisdiction not by virtue of treaties or in right of their
foreign kingdoms, but of the Imperial principalities of which they happened
to be possessed .
55
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
temples hidden beneath the accumulated filth of generations
of Arabs ; the very age of its ruins unguessed within thou-
sands of years. To-day the mighty buildings stand forth to
attest their pristine majesty ; the canons of the kings may be
consulted in their original records ; and the errors made by
careless scribes, who thought no mortal eye would ever look
upon the papyri concealed within the breast of the mummy,
stand detected by the hieroglyphic scholarship of Europe .
A peculiar fascination surrounds every detail of life in
early Egypt. For all other empires can be assigned with
more or less certainty some point of historic origin . For
China, for Assyria, for even Babylonia, we can dimly discern
the traces of rude beginnings . The days of Romulus or of
Kekrops are but the Middle Ages of history when compared
with the days of Khufu or of Mena . India does not claim
for her earliest Vedas an antiquity exceeding four thousand
years. The sacred writings of China count less than a
thousand years more ; the beginning of Babylonia about a
thousand still beyond . On the banks of the Nile alone do we
find, centuries before the date of the Accadian Sargon, a
settled monarchy and a constituted state, an elaborate
Ritual and organic hierarchy, a specific architecture and a
copious alphabet. Hence it is that the principal anomaly
which usually blurs our conception of antiquity, namely, the
interference of an element alien to the environment in the
formation of the customs of a race, more particularly when
that race has been transplanted from some wholly diverse
soil, is absent from the horizon of Egypt ; and the picture
which we may draw of Egyptian civilisation has its course,
its development, and its consummation in the conditions of
Egypt alone. No feature of attraction is wanting in that
remarkable scene. The stately river, the source of perennial
life and freshness to the entire land, the long line of majestic
temples crowning the banks, the laughing population
crowding its waters, the dances, the games, the songs, the
wrestlings, the perpetual feats, the boats of pleasure jostling
5 6
THE HOUSE OF OSIRIS
with the sacred boats of the dead, all these things make up a
picture, which set in the dazzling clearness of the cloudless
sky leaves a charm that can neither be rivalled nor forgotten .
That picture, too, demands no painful effort of the
imagination to fill up for ourselves from broken and dis-
jointed details. We are not called upon to piece out, into
such consistency as we may, the fragmentary hints of social
life laboriously gathered from chance allusions hidden in a
score of different writers. Nor need we content ourselves
with descriptions of events written centuries after their
occurrence. We can go straight to the fountain-head and
consult the original records . On the huge propylyxa of the
temples, on the walls, on the enormous sarkophagi, on the
architraves, on the pillars of the immense buildings, we find
the deeds of the princes set out in the sacred hieroglyphs .
For the battle of Lake Regillus we must trust to the tradi-
tions preserved by Livy ; for that first great battle of
Megiddo, which took place hundreds of years before Josiah
lost his life upon the same plain, long before ever Regillus
was fought, we have the contemporaneous account of the
conqueror Thothmes, and the lists of the spoils drawn up by
royal officers. Nay more, the monuments of Egypt give us
not descriptions alone, but actual representations of the
scenes. Of the triumphs celebrated by the renowned Julius,
what trace is left for posterity to gaze upon ? But the
triumphs of Rameses, and of Seti, which took place well-nigh
as long before the time of Caesar as Caesar's day was before
our own time, live yet in every detail . The garments, the
ornaments, the countenances, even the colour of the hair
of the different races which took part in these processions, all
may be seen to-day upon the walls of the palaces which wit-
nessed them. Of Moses and of Solomon, of the founder of
Rome, nay, of the great apostle of the Gentiles, we possess
not even a traditional likeness. But the features of Pharaoh
may be as familiar to us as they were to his adoring subjects .
A triple enclosure formed by massive columns, of infinite
57
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
pathos in their lonely grandeur, is all that is left to tell us
how the earth-shaking Poseidon was worshipped in his
home at Paestum. But every feature of the procession which
trod the long aisles of Karnak, the vessel of purification, the
wings on the sacred scribe, the company of the singers, the
quadruple ranks of priests, the sacred ark borne upon their
shoulders, the cherubim with outstretched wings shadowing
the Deity enthroned between, have all been preserved for
our inspection, no less than the words of the solemn litany
which the worshippers addressed to Ra, the unseen Light .
Two marked peculiarities characterise the records of the
earliest times. Nothing is more striking than the knowledge
of science which the priests of Egypt are more and more
generally admitted to have possessed, in proportion as the
facts are more carefully investigated . What architect of the
present day would undertake to erect a building, more than
four hundred feet high, full of chambers of the most
elaborate description, which should never need repair for
five thousand years ? What other nation not only discovered
the transcendental relation between the radius and circum-
ference-the foundation of all curvilinear measurement-
but utilised it as a principle of architectural construction ?
What other building is oriented with such perfect accuracy
that, if Flinders Petrie be correct, the minute displacement
wrought in the course of ages represents (and consequently
measures) the secular variation due to a recondite cosmical
force ? Where else shall we find expressed in masonic form
the different proportions of the surface of the earth, given
according to the various methods of calculation, as, accord-
ing to the same authority, the architect of the Great Pyramid
has expressed them in the area of its pavement at the different
levels ? Where else shall we find an antique kalendar based
on the periodic motion of the earth ? What other people
knew, as Dr. Brugsch and M. Masp&ro aver, the proper
motion of the sun in space ; or who possessed the lovely
Sothiac cycle, the Cycle of Grand Orient, which measured
5 8
THE HOUSE OF OSIRIS
whole ages by the herald star, as it dawned for a moment on
the eastern horizon ?
Equally striking, and even more distinct perhaps, is the
perpetual presence of the life-giving river . From end to end
of its territory, from age to age of its history, in the religion,
in the commerce, in the honours to the dead, wherever we
may turn, and on whatsoever object we may fix our eyes, we
never for a moment lose sight of the blue waters of the Nile .
That beautiful stream, flowing tranquilly for hundreds of
miles beneath the serene sky, alone gave verdure and plenty,
to the long and narrow strip of fertile soil which lines its
borders, cut off by deserts on either hand, and alone permits
the very existence of an Egyptian people .
According to ancient tradition, and agreeably also to the
records, the ancestors of the race in very remote times were
not of northern but of southern' extraction, being originally
natives of Poont, situated near the equatorial sources of the
Nile. In harmony with this tradition, we find that the
central point of the Egyptian universe, the horizon of which
traces out, as we saw, the sacred Horizon of the Ritual,
determined by the Pole Star and defined by the Pyramid,
was the Aptu, or southern " Apex of the Earth," mentioned
by Dr. Brugsch in The Holy Land of Khent, situated in that
immediate neighbourhood . For our point of reference was
demarcated by the intersection of the Equator with the
grand meridian of Memphis ; and that intersection takes
1 Marsham Adams says : As a contrary opinion is still held by some
Egyptologists, and was sanctioned by Dr . Brugsch himself, I may be per-
mitted to quote the opinion of a very distinguished authority in support.
M. Masp6ro, when I put the question to him, most courteously informed me
that though years ago he had held the opinion then prevalent of a northern
origin, he had changed his views in further research, and now believes the
Egyptians to have come from the south. If this view be correct-and many
facts seem to support it-endless difficulties are resolved, or rather do not
arise to require solution, which have resulted from a belief in the famous
"prehistoric Asiatic family" ; that is to say, in a family of the existence of
which no record can be produced .
59
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
place just by the western shore of the great equatorial lake
from which the famous river derives its life-giving streams
hence on the day of Equinox, an observer standing at the
fount of the river in the patriarchal land of Egyptian tradi-
tion, would witness that grand " Passage of the Sun," and
march of the universal hosts of space, which solemnises the
day of the " Reckoning of the Spirits ." From that point of
origin, we marked out the four cardinal points of the
universal sphere, the thrones of the four Egyptian spirits of
the Light, with Hapi in their midst, protecting the southern
fountains of the Nile . These four bright spirits, the guardians
of the heavenly dome, were imaged to the Egyptians under
the form of the cynocephalous ape, the creature which bears
the closest resemblance to humanity ; and from them, as the
four living creatures before the throne of Ra, assistance was
invoked by the justified in the Ritual at the moment when
the full splendour of the Orbit was bursting upon his
illumined sight.' Thus the whole system of Egyptian
astronomy, in its scientific delineation no less than its
mystical significance, would seem to have been devised
originally, not with any reference to the later settlement of
the race upon the lower streams of the Nile, but to their
original dwelling-place among the sunny fountains of the
south ; while the Grand Meridian appears to have been
defined, not by its local relation to Memphis, but from its
passing through the apex of the earth, beneath the Grand
Arch of the universe and the apex of the celestial dome over
the point of origination .
Yet, remarkable as is this primaeval locality when viewed
in the light of Egyptian tradition, its interest is increased
tenfold when we regard it in combination with the other
features of the great watershed of which it forms an essential
part, and which reminds us irresistibly of the famous water-
shed described in our own Scriptures as forming the
primxval dwelling-place of man. There are-not the full
1 Chapter cxxvi.
6o
THE HOUSE OF OSIRIS
streams but-as in Genesis, the " heads of the four rivers,
which go " forth to water the whole country ." There,
beyond the Zambesi, lies the land of gold, with its mines of
unknown antiquity : while the odorous herb of which the
hieroglyphic name is Betru (or Bedru) suggests the original
of the Hebrew Betelu (the L being in Egyptian identical
with R), converted by the Greeks into Bdellium. There is
the fountain of the Niger, which encompasses in its windings
the whole land of the Blacks . There is the source of the
inundating Nei-los, in Egyptian " the Boundary Burster " ;
of which the Hebrew word Hiddekel, signifying " Violent,"
is but a pale reflection. And there is the Congo, the river of
Life," corresponding precisely with the Hebrew Perith
(fruitful), transformed by the Greeks into Euphrates . More
striking still, in the eastward portion of the great basin lies
the wonderful garden, or Paradise, three thousand miles in
extent, so glowingly described by Stanley, and full of animal
life, the sceptre of which was one of the insignia (the
"Tad ") borne by the great Deity Amen ; while from that
garden flows the single river, the Shari, exactly as in our
scriptural account the single river flowed in the midst to
water the garden which was placed in the eastward' part of
the immense watershed of Eden . And as, according to the
same account, the first traces of the never-ceasing current of
human wandering commenced on the eastward of the
garden, so does the stream of the infant Nile, which takes its
rise near this point, tend eastward of the grand meridian
before bending southward towards the lake which still bears
the patriarchal name of the Egyptian Noun ; and below it, to
2 As Marsham Adams points out, in the innumerable attempts at the
identification of the birthplace of man, as recorded in Scripture-attempts
which may be counted literally by the hundred, and which have gone far
towards rendering any true exposition of human development an almost
hopeless achievement-the garden is constantly confused with the watershed,
and the " heads " of the river with their full courses, while the single river is
omitted altogether.
2 See note B, p. 165.
6i
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
the ruins of Assur, discovered by Caillaud on the banks of
hoary Meroe.
From that country their course appears to have been
effected by a two-fold route . In part, according to a very
ancient tradition, mentioned by Dr . Brugsch, they proceeded
along the banks of the river, sojourning for a while, it would
seem;, in the island of Meroe, where the hoary temple of
Amen and the ruins of Assur, mentioned above, mark their
ancient presence ; while others appear to have come down
by the Red Sea, as Petrie's discoveries indicate, and thence
to have crossed the desert to Coptos . From this most
important circumstance, it is essential to bear in mind that
to the Egyptian the south was the " Great Quarter," to
which especial reverence was due . Hence it was that every
year the sacred images were carried into the ancestral
country ; an echo of which tradition is found in the visits
of the Gods of Homer to the " blameless Ethiopians ."
Hence, in the ancient inscription on the coffin of Amamu,
we are told how the holy dead, " after flying over the whole
face of heaven," is " established among the blessed company
in the south." And in the same archaic papyrus we read of
the celestial land of Khent, or Khent-Amenti, the habitation
of the Hidden God, imaged on earth by the " Holy Land of
Khent " at the Aptu or southern apex of the earth. Hence
also the most sacred portion of the temple was placed towards
the same quarter ; and the Great Pyramid, from the entrance
to the innermost chamber, was oriented north and south .,
In truth, to the mind of the Egyptian, the whole bed of
the immense river was but the sacred image of the unseen
land watered by the " celestial Nile " of which the Ritual
speaks ; " The Nuter Khart," or Holy Land of the Dead,
with its triple division into Rusta (or Restau), the territory
of Initiation ; Aahlu, the district of illumination ; and
Amenti, the secret home of the hidden God.2
1 The deceased was also always faced to the south for the ceremony of the
Opening of the Mouth. 2 Cf. note r, p. 34.
6 2
THE HOUSE OF OSIRIS
Far towards the south, beyond the alternate reaches of
stream and desert, lay the patriarchal land of Poont, like
Amenti, the distant home of the unseen Father . At the
tropical extremity of Egypt, immediately below the celestial
or tropical arch traversed by the sun at the summer solstice
(at that epoch about 24°N ., the inclination of the earth's
axis to the plane of its orbit, being at that time about half a
degree greater than at present), was the cataract or " Gate
of the Nile," through which the ancestors of the race entered
the country. That cataract or throne of the life-giving
waters, situated beneath the Royal Arch of the solstitial
throne, marks the point attained by the Illuminate in the
Ritual, when he has achieved, in Aahlu, the " passage of the
sun," and " opens the gate of the Nile," the cataract of
heavenly light.
As the deceased, in making that ascent, entered into the
presence of the forty-two judges of the dead (the Gods of the
Horizon and the Gods of the Orbit), each judge supreme in
his particular province ; so was all the land of Egypt par-
celled out into forty-two nomes or districts, twenty nomes
in the lower and twenty-two nomes in the upper country.
To each nome was assigned a great temple as capital, with a
specific function and priesthood . And as the temple formed
the vast enclosure of the shrine, so also did the district
become the vast enclosure of the temple . Nor were the
temples dedicated to sacred things alone, but the structures
of daily life shared the divine significance . And for every
division of the country, as De Rouge has shown, the palace
and the canal, no less than the temple and the district, bore
a name of mystery and reflected the region of the holy dead .
All along the valley of the river, as it descends northwards ;
at Thebes, at Abydos, at Tentera, were the great shrines
sanctified by manifestations of the Deity. At the northern
extremity, where the ocean formed the boundary of the
country, was the mouth of Rosetta, or Rusta, imaging, as
we learn from the Papyrus of Khufu, the mouth of the
6 3
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
tomb, and looking towards the Pole Star, the never-fading
light of the depths, that pointed for the Egyptians the path
to the hidden life . In the midst of the land where the Nile
branched out into the great angle of the delta, the dominating
angle in the conformation of the valley, stood Memphis
(or Mennofer), the " Holy Place " ; the seat of the double
government of Egypt, with its palace dedicated to the
Creator-spirit Ptah, its cemetery bearing the title of " Blessed
Immortality," like our own " God's Acre," and its canal
called after the Voyage of the Unseen Waters . There, too,
was the territory of " Sochet Ra," the Fields of the Sun .
And close to the sacred city, on the western bank of the
river, rose the " Pyramid of Light," built upon a lonely
rock, which faces the great quarter of the south, the house
of Osiris,l to which, says the papyrus of Amen Hotep,
" Thoth," the Eternal Wisdom, " conducts the Illuminate ."
Distinctive, too, as is the situation of this building with
reference to the conformation of the country, it is equally
remarkable in its relation to the two principal points to which
all human measurements of space must be primarily referred,
namely, the centre and the pole of the earth ; since its distance
from the centre is just equal to its distance from the pole .'
A degree of sanctity, peculiar even in that land of
reverence, enveloped the mysterious building. " A sense of
enchantment," we read in another papyrus, pervaded the
whole territory surrounding the Great House ; and even the
hurried traveller to-day can with difficulty resist the spell, as
he gazes on the solemn walls . But for the initiated of old,
the supreme end of their existence, the order of their
festivals, the purity of their religion, the stability of their
monarchy were concentrated in the awful masonry. As the
territorial constitution of the country, with its forty-two
provinces of the lower and upper kingdoms, corresponded
interiorly with the forty-two provinces of the Judges of the
Dead, the Upper Gods of the Orbit and the Lower Gods of
I Pir as Aausar. 2 See note C, p . Y66.
64
THE HOUSE OF OSIRIS
the Horizon, the political framework being the envelope of
the spiritual theosophy ; so was it with the exterior and
interior of the Great House . For from the point where the
adept appears before the forty-two judges in the Double
Hall of Truth, on surmounting the blocks at the lower end
of the Chamber of the Shadow, to the throne at the upper
end of the Chamber of Splendour, where he received the
crown of illumination, there are exteriorly forty-two courses ;
so that they form the envelope of the Double Hall of inner
Truth. And as the lucid river itself imaged the stream of
the " celestial Nile," so also was the course of that river
imaged masonically in the hidden places of the House of
Osiris. Upon the walls of the Chamber of the Splendour
was sculptured the orbit of our planet among the sevenfold
company around the solar throne, the orbit which measures
the rise and fall of the life-giving waters of the Nile . Along
the roof descends the stream of sculptured rays, thirty-six in
number, corresponding to the thirty-six decades of days in
the orbit of the Egyptian year. At the upper or southern
end of the chamber, as at the upper or southern end of the
kingdom, beneath the Royal Arch of the Sevenfold Ascent,
or " Burning Crown,", as the Ritual calls it, is the Throne
of the Cataract. Behind it, the low gate leads through the
narrow channels to the chambers of the south with the
hidden chambers in the height, crowned by the Grand Arch
which dominates the whole interior of the building ; as the
gate of the Nile leads beyond the cataract to the southern
land of Poont and the long-hidden source of the river, where
the land of Khent, beneath the southern apex, imaged the
celestial land of Khent, or Khent-Amenti, mentioned in the
Papyrus of Amamu, the Interior Habitation of God in the
supreme heaven . At the junction of the upper and lower
chambers is the upper mouth of the Well, forming a key to
the secret interior, just as the city of Memphis with the
house of Osiris itself was the secret key to the constitution of
1 See page 158.
6
E
THE BOOK OF THE -MASTER
the double kingdom. There, too, the lesser passage from the
secret Chamber of Divine Birth, the " Chamber of Isis,"
" the Light of the Hidden Nile," unites with the main
current of the masonic river ; just as in the vignette of the
Celestial Nile, a branch of the stream pours into the main
current, from " Annu (or On) the secret birthplace of the
Gods." From,that point the masonic stream, like the Nile
at the same point, forks out into a delta, one branch leading
down to the Hidden Lintel, the other forming the Well of
Life, in the territory of Rusta, wherein, as we learn from
T0
o ~e
s °ea
%e
f
of
."
.
Near Birth
PYRAMIDAL REGION OF THOTH
another papyrus, was the tree of immortality . And in the
rock which bounds the Chamber of the Horizon, and upon
which the house of Osiris is built, we recognise the " Rock
of the Horizon of Heaven " of which the Ritual speaks.
Again, the very form of some of the hieroglyphs betrays
a pyramidal origin. Thus if we outline the junction of the
upper and lower chamber, by tracing the roof-line of the
well below the roof-line of the gallery, with the three ramp-
stones in front, and the projections of the upper and lower
galleries at the place, we shall have the hieroglyph pro-
nounced " Taui,"I which is well known to mean Upper and
Lower Egypt, though no explanation of the form has
hitherto been suggested. Similarly, suppose that we
6 6
THE HOUSE OF OSIRIS
delineate the Double Hall of Truth (from the Hidden
Lintel to the Empyrean Gate at the southern end of the roof
above the throne), together with the Chamber of New Birth
and the Head of the Well, we shall have the portion of the
structure more particularly subject to the dominion of
Thoth : the divine person, by whom the initiation is effected .
Then if we form a cypher of that region, by tracing a line
plan indicating only the direction of those parts in relation
to the Head of the Well, where, as we shall presently see,
the rite of initiation is accomplished, we shall have the sacred
symbol reserved to that deity alone . And as by the power of
SACRED HIEROGLYPHIC SYMBOL PECULIAR TO THOTH
Thoth the adept, after passing his ordeal, is introduced into
the presence of the forty-two judges in the Double Hall,
corresponding to the forty-two nomes or provinces of Egypt,
so also does that symbol of Thoth enter into the Hiero-
glyphic names of every one of the nomes with but a single
,exception.,,
Upon the same harmony between the celestial and the
terrestrial country embodied in the masonry of the Pyramid
of Light, depended also the order of the princes of Egypt .
For as the Great House itself, the Place of Osiris, the
universal God, was represented in its totality in the person
of the supreme Monarch ; so also the two great divisions of
that House, the territory of initiation with its directing angle
at the Hidden Lintel, and the territory of illumination with
its Sculptured Orbit in the Grand Gallery, the places
respectively of the Gods of the Horizon and the Gods of the
Orbit, were represented in the two great divisions of the
Egyptian Court, the princes of the Angle' and the princes of
1 Cf. Budge The Mummy, pp. 3-6. 2 See note D, p. 167.
67
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
the Circle. And so also was that sevenfold celestial company,
the ranks of which were sculptured above the throne in the
Chamber of the Splendour, represented in the sevenfold
ranks of the " Companions of the King," which immediately
surrounded the person of Pharaoh. Thus the Great House
with the Double Hall of Truth within, formed a masonic
organisation not only of the religious, but of the political
constitution of the kingdom ; with ascending grades from
the Purple Arch of the Star defining the Sacred Horizon of
Rusta (or Rosetta) to the Royal Arch of the solstice or limit
of the solar seat above the water throne of the cataract, and
beyond again along the Grand Arch of the Celestial Meridian
to the culminating point of the sun at Equinox above the
source of the river, in the primaeval land of Poont .
As we stand before the portal of the " Great House," the
" Pir Aa," while we recall the familiar title which the
Pharaohs thence derived, and as we contemplate the heaven
reflected in the blue waters of the river as it flows without,
and its image masonically expressed in the path within, " the
disc " seems lifted " from the tomb," and we gaze upon the
unseen world. Egypt, for so many centuries the land of the
buried, has suddenly become the land of the risen dead.
And the message which the long-silenced voice proclaims
as with a tongue of fire, is the primitive belief in the divine
origin and end of man . It is not the Ritual nor the Pyramid
of Light alone, which speak to us of the eternal day . Every-
where and always throughout ancient Egypt the same
doctrine is proclaimed . From the orbit of the earth, from
the Pole Star of the heavens, from the dawning of Sothis,
from the radiance of the sun, from the waters of the river,
from the palaces, from the temples, from the tombs, from
the very bowels of the rifled dead, comes forth a voice which
for ages has been hushed in the grave ; and that voice with
startling clearness bears testimony to a judgment beyond the
tomb, and the fatherhood of the unseen God .
6 8
TEMPLE OF THE VIRGIN MOTHER-DENDERAH
CHAPTER IV
THE TEMPLE OF THE VIRGIN MOTHER
SOME four hundred miles from the apex of the Delta, higher
up along the Nile, lies the city of Annu, or Denderah, where-
in was situated the temple dedicated to Hathor, identified
with Isis, the Queen of Heaven, whose most ancient and
distinctive title was the Virgin Mother . This latter name,
still bears the trace of its original meaning, being a corrup-
tion of the words Ta M Ta Rer or " Place of the Orbit.""
And the name becomes highly significant in itself, and
throws no little light on the title which the Pharaohs bore of
" Lord of the Orbit," when we observe that the length of
the river in its course through Upper Egypt is just one-
millionth part of the orbit of the earth,$ and that Denderah is
little more than two degrees from the tropical boundary,
where the plane of our orbit intersects the Nile . That the
design of this temple was of very ancient date the records
leave no manner of doubt . It is probable indeed (although
some of the evidence adduced is not very convincing') that
1 See note E, p. 172. 2 Denderah.
8 Marsham Adams points out that he here reckons the earth's orbit (or in
other words the distance of the sun) to be between 92J and 93 million miles .
' For instance, says Marsham Adams, a considerable amount of argument
in support of a date not anterior to the time of the Romans has been expended
on the presence of a certain Greek inscription, which states that in the time
of the Emperor Tiberius a portion of this temple (there called after the Greek
fashion the Pro-Naos) was dedicated to a Greek Goddess . With equal
justice might one of our own grand medieval churches be ascribed to the close of
the eighteenth century, on the strength of an inscription recording in gilt letters
the important circumstances of its whitewashing by the churchwardens .
6 9
THE BOOK OF THE _MASTER
the structure as it now stands is due to a comparatively late
epoch, some authorities maintaining that it was not com-
pleted until the Christian era had begun. But of the antiquity
of the original building there can be no question . For while,
as Professor Dumichen has observed, the religious cere-
monies depicted on the walls belong to a very remote period,
the inscriptions recount how Thothmes III (more than
i Soo years before the time of Christ) gave the command to
rebuild the temple according to its ancient design, so that at
that period the plan was already reckoned as antique .
Further, the same records tell us how that original building
was erected by Pepi, a monarch of the Sixth Dynasty, who
reigned nineteen centuries before the time of Thothmes, and
how even that was not the farthest point to which the history
of the structure ascended . For the plan upon which Pepi
religiously carried out the ancient design did not originate
in his own mind, but was brought to light by him from a
crypt, or secret chamber, being written " in archaic charac-
ters," says the records, by Khufu himself, the astronomer-
architect of the Fourth Dynasty, and buried by him on the
spot eight hundred years before the days of Pepi .
- In this temple of the great Mother of God, structure and
situation alike appear designed to illustrate that starry
universe of which she was the queen . Thus the fundamental
principle of precession stands out with great clearness when
we examine the position of the temple . For, since the
locality is close to the verge of the tropics, where the plane
of our orbit (or, which is the same thing, of the ecliptic)
passes perpendicularly upwards through the surface of the
earth, the sun at midsummer would occupy nearly the zenith
of the place. If, then, an observer at Denderah should stand
with his face towards the north, as the temple records
inform us that the founder stood when on the night of
midsummer he laid the foundation-stone of the building, he
would have the plane of our orbit rising immediately in front
of him, while the pole of the ecliptic would lie at his feet at
70
THE TEMPLE OF THE VIRGIN MOTHER
the farthest verge of the celestial horizon . Now it is around
that pole of the ecliptic that (in the course of about 25,8oo
years) the celestial axis describes the precessional circle .
Hence, then, alike to the builder of the temple, and to the
long line of pontiffs who took up their position, year after
year, and generation after generation, to celebrate the chief
festival of the temple, the stars in their nightly revolutions
around the axis of that horizon would trace out the same
circle as in the mightier movement of precession ; while the
gradual change in the hours of their rising and setting, as the
centuries passed. away, would measure the age-long hours,
each spanning over a thousand years, of a single circuit of the
axis-the vast precessional day . Now, that this relation was
essential to the plan is evident from the prominence given
in the inscriptions to the pole of the ecliptic, or " Turning-
point (in Egyptian Akh) of the Circles of Light," as it is
there called ; and again from the emphatic stress laid in
another part of the records upon the same central point .
" He saw the Akh as the Akh, which is in the heaven of
Hathor, the Lady of Annu," say , the records, speaking of
the founder. That is to say, he saw the pole of the earth's
orbit as the turning-point round which during his midnight
watch he beheld the heavens revolve, exactly as an observer
standing in the same position would behold at the present day .
Another illustration, or rather application of the same
principle becomes evident when we compare the temple and
the Great Pyramid-those twin buildings of mystery due
to the same primaeval astronomer, Khufu, the one erected
by him, the other only designed, but left to his successor,
eight hundred years later, for accomplishment . For the
position of the Pole Star which, we saw, was indicated by
the entrance-shaft of the Great Pyramid, was 26°7' above
the horizon of that building ; and 26°7' is the latitude of
Denderah, that is to say, its distance measured along a
meridian from the Equator. But in that position the star's
true distance from the pole was 3°53' ; and 3°53' is the
7I
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
meridional distance between the temple of Denderah and
the Great Pyramid. Thus while the celestial relation between
the star and the horizon of the Great Pyramid measures the
terrestrial relation between the Equator and the temple of
the heavens, the terrestrial relation between the temple and
the Pyramid measures the celestial relation between the
star and the heavenly pole . The same relation, moreover,
suggests a singular connection between the position of the
star and the erection of the temple . For the date at which the
star occupied the position thus indicated was about the year
3440 B.C., that is to say, not in the time of Khufu but of
Pepi. Eight centuries, therefore, it would seem, after the
epoch when Khufu secretly designed the celestial plan of
the universal temple, his royal successor, Pepi, who himself
bore the title of Grand Master (Sechem Ur), recognised that
the hour had arrived for the manifestation of that design,
when the star which indicated the celestial pole illuminated
the dark masonry of the twin building, and he saw the
" point shining in the great house of watching," as it says
in another . part of the inscription. Until that hour should
come, the Grand Architect concealed the design for the
temple of the universe ; when the predetermined measure of
time was accomplished, the Grand Master erected the
building on the spot measured by the star and the pole of
the heavens.
From that same measure also arises another relation
illustrating at once the connection of the temple with the
precessional motion, and the meaning of various expressions
in the temple records. For that measure (3053') is within a
few seconds just the sixth part of the space contained between
the Equator and the ecliptic, and conveniently divides it
therefore into six equal parts on either side of the Equator ;
and that is the space through which, owing to the effect of
precession, the heavenly sphere appears to be shifted, once
northward and once southward in the course of the vast
cycle. Hence, then, we have the meaning of a remarkably
7 2
THE TEMPLE OF THE VIRGIN MOTHER
beautiful image contained in the records, describing the
temple as " The Seat of the Heavenly Dances in the Six
Heights of Osiris," that is to say, of the space-sweeping
motions of the starry host through these six heights of the
tropical heaven, as now advancing, now receding, they
weave their never-ending measures, led by the star that
marks the heavenly pole1
A similar reference to the structure of the heavens is
manifested everywhere throughout the temple. On one side
of the vast entrance-hall, or " Khent," the walls are covered
with a representation of the fourteen ascents of the moon,
leading up on the fifteenth to the throne of Thoth, the Lord
of Measurement, and corresponding to the number of days
between new and full moon . On the opposite side are
depicted eighteen boats, each led by a solar serpent or spiral,
representing the eighteen decades which made up the half
orbit. And in the area of the same entrance-hall rise eighteen
enormous columns, dividing into three rows, each containing
six columns, corresponding with the number of decades of
days. To these columns, therefore, in the " Habitation of
Horus," and to the foundation of the building at midnight,
as the records relate, it would seem that allusion is made
when we read in the papyrus of Ani, of " the night of setting
up the columns of Horus and making him to be established
as heir to the things which belonged to his father ."2 And
again in the Book of the Master we read that Horus himself
gave the command, " Let the pillars be here " ; that is, in
his own Habitation .
In the centre of the temple is the hall of the Altar, with
entrances opening east and west ; and beyond it lies the
great hall of the temple, entitled the " Hall of the Child in
his Cradle," from whence access is obtained to the secret and
concealed shrine entered once a year by the high priest on
the night of midsummer. From that shrine the image of the
Holy Mother was on that night conveyed by the priests in
i See note F, p . 173. s Chapter xviii.
7 3
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
procession up a secret staircase to an open chamber on the
roof, there to hold communion with her divine father Ra .
And upon the walls is depicted the figure of the Virgin
Mother with the rays of the divine splendour streaming
from the circle of her womb, forcibly recalling the striking
vision of the prophet Ezekiel, when he beheld a great cloud
coming up from the north," and the "splendour within the
circle," and the " fire enwrapping," and the " amber in the
midst of the fire "-the sacred Mother retaining her virgin
HATHOR WITH THE SPLENDOUR PROCEEDING FROM HER WOMB
purity, transparent as amber, in the midst of her fiery
espousals, and surrounded by the great cloud of the heavenly
host coming up from Nazareth in the north of the Holy
Land to the place of birth, bearing the Eternal Splendour in
her womb.
But of all the astronomical features presented by this
deeply interesting building, by far the most remarkable is
the celebrated wall-painting which was transferred bodily,
early in the present'. century, from the temple at Denderah
to Paris, where it formed the subject of the liveliest and most
prolonged discussion among the scholars, and where it may
still be seen. The subject of this picture is somewhat
difficult to convey, but its appearance may be described as
follows. Suppose a panther's hide to be cut square, the spots
to be filled up with sacred symbols, interspersed with stars,
and the figures to be grouped into a kind of spiral which,
1 Marsham Adams is of course speaking of the nineteenth century .
74
THE TEMPLE OF THE VIRGIN MOTHER
opening out from the centre, gradually widens into a circle
surrounded by a square border, then we shall have a general
conception of the form of the picture. In the space between
the circle anti the square rim is depicted at each of the four
principal points, in a double form, the divine Horus, the
child of Hathor, Queen of the starry Universe, to whom the
temple was dedicated . The two forms, precisely similar, face
each other, at each of the four points of the orbit, thus
representing the equalisation of light and darkness all over
the earth at the two equinoxes, and at the poles for each half
of the year. Midway between each quarter is the figure of
the Holy Mother, under the form of Nut, the mistress who
presided over the waters, the celestial giver of those heaven-
descended rains which fed their life-giving river . And the
whole is enclosed by a hieroglyphic inscription which runs
round the border
To this representation, sometimes . most inaccurately
called a " Zodiac," the scientific writers in the Description
de l'Egypte assign the more correct title of a Planisphere.
Astronomically speaking, in fact, it represents the aspect of
the heaven as it would revolve before the eyes of the monarch
as he stood with his face to the north on the night of the
foundation of the temple ; while an examination of the
mystical figures and symbols thereon inscribed shows
immediately their intimate connection with the celestial
path of the holy departed. For, numerous as they are, there
is scarcely one which does not appear in the vignettes and
illustrate the text of the sacred papyri ; and most particu-
larly of the Book of the Master, that most jealously guarded
papyrus wherein the Divine Wisdom set forth at large the
path of the holy dead on their entrance into light. In a
word, the picture affords a representation of the visible
heaven as seen from the dwelling-place of the Virgin Mother,
whose very name Hat-Hor implies that she herself was the
Habitation of the incarnate Horus ; while the mystical
3 See note G, p. 174.
7 5
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
symbols representing the starry groups, image forth the
supernal powers and spirits which the holy departed,
according to the creed of Egypt, encountered in his progress
through the heights as he mounted from the plane of earth
to the burning throne of Ra .
To effect a comparison between the different parts of the
planisphere, and through them with the constellations of the
heavens, is not a difficult task . For, as in other great
temples, the various halls and chambers in that of Hathor
had each a distinctive name, and sometimes a good many
names, bearing reference, for the most part, to the mysteries
of the Light and of a divine Birth . The " Hall of the Golden
Rays " was the title of one of the great halls . The Chamber
of Gold, the Chamber of Frankincense, the Chamber of
Birth, the Place of the Altar, the Dwelling of the Golden
One, the Chamber of Flames, and the Throne-room of Ra,
are among the hieroglyphic titles attaching to the various
portions of the Temple . Now, as the planisphere contains
the . hieroglyphs which indicate the northern and southern
points, we are enabled to correlate the parts of the temple,
and thereby to discover a striking correspondence between
the different parts of the inscription and the titles of the
chambers and halls occupying the same relative positions.
Commencing with the northern entrance leading to the
Hall of the Golden Rays, we read " Head of the Circles of
Annu " (or Denderah), " Horus the Entrance of the Golden
Heaven." Opposite the two openings, one towards the
rising, the other towards the setting sun, we have the hiero-
glyph (Khut Su) signifying " Horizon of Light." By the
Chamber of Incense, we read " Palace Chamber of Holy
Adoration " (Tuat), " Palace Chamber of Supreme Light "
(Tes Su). By the Chamber of Birth, we find mention of the
" Head of the Nurse of Ra, Meeting-place of the Region of
the Gods." In the same way, by the Chamber of Flames, we
have " Heavenly Flame of Burning Gold," and by the
Chamber of Gold, the " Golden Heaven of Isis ." And as
76
THE TEMPLE OF THE VIRGIN MOTHER
the chief hall of the temple was the Hall of the Child in his
Cradle, so the chief representation on the planisphere is the
Holy Mother with the Divine Child in her arms .'
Conceive now that the monarch, standing with his face
to the north and keeping' watch from midnight to midnight,
should project upon the surface of the heaven that sacred
design. Then every portion of the celestial surface before
him will be divided into groups of stars or constellations
corresponding to the sacred images depicted upon the plani-
sphere, and consequently with the various chambers of the
temple to which those images themselves correspond . Thus
the whole field of the watcher's view would be marked out
with precision into well-defined groups or constellations,
each represented by its distinctive symbol, immediately
recognisable by those, and those alone, who should under-
stand the nature of the temple plan and should be acquainted
with the temple structure. And as each midsummer came
round, opening a fresh Egyptian year, the hosts of highest
heaven gathered around the " Child in his Cradle," and the
festival of the starry universe was fitly celebrated in the
temple of Hathor, the Mother of God, herself the " Habita-
tion " of the Holy Light.
Deeply solemn must have been the scene surrounding the
Grand Master Pepi, on that memorable night when,
obedient to the star-given command of his long-departed
predecessor, he stood and measured the earth . Every detail,
every feature, every ornament, speaks with a silent eloquence
which echoes through space and time . There lay before the
monarch the archaic design, traced out in characters telling
of an age already bygone, and, itself new risen from the
tomb, giving expression to the eternal destiny of man beyond
the grave. In his hand was the royal " Khus," the masonic
rule of ancient Egypt . Upon his head sparkled the luminous
tiara of Hathor, figuring forth the supernal beauty where-
with the Illuminate should be crowned in the day of immor-
1 See note H, p. 175.
77
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
tality. Far in the northern horizon the Pole Star shone
before his feet, proclaiming the advent of the long-appointed
hour. All round, throughout the immensity of the illimitable
vault, burned amid the profound stillness of the night the
countless multitudes of infinitely distant suns, recalling the
sublime passage in the Book of the Master: " I make the
shining circles of the years ; and billions are my measure-
ment." Upward from out the darkling depths of the
unfathomable abyss, stretching like boundless wings on
either hand, and high aloft by the zenith of the translucent
dome, rose invisible to the common eye but present ever to
the mind of the astronomer, the plane of our planet's orbit-
that celestial plane of man's earthly course-girt by the
Zodiac, like an azure belt of gleaming gems,
"Those lights most lustrous of the firmament
Which through the heaven lead the gliding year ."
Then when the circuit was accomplished, and the surface
of the heaven grouped into constellations according to
the sacred plan, the monarch gave the signal for laying the
foundation of the temple, and, fixing his eyes upon the
northern centre of the revolving heaven, commanded the
attendant ministers to stretch out the measuring cord in
the predetermined direction, which he as Grand Master,
and he alone, foreknew .
From that mysterious temple of the Holy Mother, with
its shrine of secret birth, wherein the relations between the
heavens and the earth are so sedulously embodied yet so
jealously concealed, we proceed to contemplate the deeply
veiled teaching of the Egyptian priesthood as to the universal
fatherhood of the Hidden God .
CHAPTER V
THE HIDDEN GOD
DEEPLY embedded in the heart of some ancient forest, we
find here and there a massive and hoary boulder, its antiquity
far exceeding that of the venerable trees, and its whole
appearance telling of a distant soil and a bygone day . As we
sit upon the granite block with the branches waving high
above our heads, our wonder at its presence is deepened by
the quiet scene. For countless ages that great stone has lain
motionless, lifeless, changeless, amid all the infinite move-
ment of changing life around it. No human power brought
that huge mass where it lies, no eye can trace the path along
which it was driven by the forces of nature. And not until
we have traced the mighty variations and convulsions which,
in the recesses of time, our whole globe has undergone, and
have looked back far beyond the earliest seed-time of the
forest, to the days when the surrounding country for
hundreds of miles formed the bottom of an immense ocean,
through which the icebergs bore the huge rocks torn from
its frozen shores, can we understand the position of that
primaeval stone.
Something of a similar character may not infrequently
be discerned in regard to the religious belief and worship
of a nation, when a tradition or custom survives the con-
vulsions and changes of centuries and remains firmly
embedded in the national life, though every trace of signi-
ficance is long buried in the past. Most superstitions, it is
probable, had once an intelligible meaning, even if that
meaning were founded on a mistaken belief ; but such
79
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
survivals are by no means due to superstition alone . Who,
for instance, can explain the Latin titles used for the psalms
in the Prayer Book of the Church of England, without going
back more than three hundred years to the time when
England used the same language in her public worship as
the rest of Christendom ? So in the Latin Mass the Kyrie
Eleison betrays its connection with the Greek, and the word
Hosanna, in the office for Palm Sunday, carries us back to
the Hebrew.
But there is one word in particular which is employed,
not on any special occasion, but in every service ; not once
or twice, but after every petition ; not as a portion of the
prayer, but as its summary and its seal . If a stranger stand
outside the closed doors of a church while the service is
going on, there is one word, and probably but one, which he
would hear distinctly repeated again and again . " Amen,"
" Amen," " Amen," that is the aspiration which, time after
time, comes rolling forth with the full strength of choir and
congregation . That is the word by which the apostle
denotes the absolute nature of the Deity as compared with
created matter. " In Him all things are Amen.'-' Amen is
the single word which the seer of the Apocalypse heard the
Four. Living Creatures utter before the throne in response
to the chorus of universal adoration . And that is the title
under which the same writer invokes the advent of his
Divine Master at the conclusion of the vision : " Amen,
Veni Domine Jesu." That, too, is the name which the
Master assumed to Himself : " Amen I say to you ." And
that is the name by which the Egyptian of old addressed
the secret Deity-Amen, that is to say in English, " The
Hidden One."
That the existence of the one God was widely known, by
some classes of men at least, among the nations of antiquity
there can be little doubt. Among the Chinese, according to
the eminent authority, Dr . Legge, the word Ti represented
the same idea as we express by the word God ; and its
8o
THE HIDDEN GOD
assumption as a title by the earliest dynasty of the Emperors
of China would be quite in accordance with the ancient
belief that the monarch ruled as the divine representative .
So, in the sacred books of India, when the disciples of Manu
approached the sage to beg for instruction in the wisdom
which afterwards formed the foundation of Indian law, they
addressed him as follows : " For thou, 0 Lord, alone
knowest the purport (or rites) and the knowledge taught in
the whole ordinance of the Self-Existent (Svayam bhu),
which is unknowable and unfathomable ." And their
master, in his reply, laid down the principle of the one
uncreated God, the Giver of Light . " The Divine Self-
Existent," he said, " indiscernible, making the elements and
the rest discernible, appeared with creative force, dispelling
the darkness."
Again in the Mahabharata, the earliest production of
post-Vedic literature, a translation of which, as well as the
laws of Manu, is given in the magnificent series of the
Sacred Books of the East, the most enduring monument to
its illustrious editor, a similar doctrine is ascribed to Vyasa .
" In the commencement was Brahman, without beginning
or end, unborn, luminous, free from decay, immutable,
eternal, unfathomable, not to be fully known ."
Equally explicit are the utterances of some of the Greek
poets.
" One Self-begotten, from whom all things sprang," is
one of the lines attributed to the famous Orpheus .
" To God all things are easy, nought impossible ." so
sang Linus, a brother of the same bright band. A fuller but
not less accurate description is given by Xenophanes
One God there is, greatest 'mongst gods and men ;
Not like to mortals, or in form or thought.
In full he sees, he hears, in full he knows,
And without labour doth his mind move all ."
Another poet, Cleanthes, strikes at the root of the ex-
clusiveness arising from the characteristic principle of
8i
F
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
ancient idolatry, that a deity listens to no prayers except
from his own descendants, by proclaiming that all men are
the offspring of God, and that consequently the right of
prayer to him is universal :
'~ O thou most glorious and immortal one,
0 many-titled, 0 Omnipotent,
Zeus, Lord of Nature, ruling all by law,
Hail, whom to worship is the right of all,
Since all of us are of thee."
So Aratus, whom St. Paul quotes in his famous speech to
the Athenians. " God is the source of our song and God is
the beginning of all things . We, too, are the offspring of God."
A similar passage, though capable of a more pantheistic
interpretation, is contained in the Orphica.
" God first; and God the Lord of Thunder last ;
God head, God midst and all things are of God ;
God male and God immortal Womanhood .
God the great stay of earth and starry Heaven,
God breath of all, God fire's unwearied rush,
God Ocean's root and God the Sun and Moon.
God King Himself the Patriarch supreme
One strength, one Lord, one generator of all,
One King, one mould the base of every form.
Fire, Water, Earth and Air and Night and Day
And Wisdom Firstborn and Exhaustless Love
All have their Being in the Godhead vast ."
Even the Roman mind, dim-eyed as it was for the invisible
world, was not altogether without a glimpse of this truth,
to which Horace has given expression when speaking of
the supreme Deity :
" From Whom none greater than Himself is born ;
Nor doth His equal or His second live ."
But the truths which sparkle here and there in the teach-
ings of India, China or of Greece, fade and vanish before
the blaze of Egyptian theosophy . Take, for example,
the following extract given by Budge from the hymn
8 2
THE HIDDEN GOD
to Amen-Ra, the hidden Deity, the self-existent Light :
" Hail to thee, Ra, Lord of Law, whose shrine is hidden ;
Master of the Gods, the God Kepher Ra (Self-Existent
Light) in his boat ; by the sending forth of his Word the
gods sprang into existence. Hail, God Atmu (Light), Maker
of Mortals. However many are their forms, he causes them
to live ; he makes different the colour of one man from
another. He hears the prayer of him that is oppressed ; he
is kind of heart to him that calls unto him ; he delivers him
that is afraid from him that is strong of heart ; he judges
between the mighty and the weak .
" O Form, One, Creator of all things . 0 One, Only
Maker of existence. Men came forth from his two eyes, the
gods sprang into existence at the utterance of his mouth .
He maketh the green herb to make the cattle live and the
staff of life for the (use of) man . He maketh the fish to live
in the rivers, the winged fowl in the sky; he giveth the
breath of life to the germ in the egg ; he maketh birds of all
kinds to live, and likewise the reptiles that creep and fly ; he
causeth the rats to live in their holes and the birds that are on
every green twig. Hail to thee, 0 Maker of all these things,
thou Only One."
Nor was the unity the only truth concerning the Godhead
known to the priesthood of Egypt. Throughout the extent
of the kingdom, at Thebes, at Ombos, at Denderah, at
Memphis, at Annu (or On), a Triune God-of whom some
knowledge seems to have been attained by Greece-invoked
by many names, but everywhere consisting of three persons,
consubstantial and co-eternal, was worshipped as supreme .
" I am Tmu in the morning," says the Creator, in a well-
known passage, " Ra at noon and Harmachis in the
evening " ; that is to say, as the dawn, the noon and the
sunset are three distinct forms co-existing perpetually and
co-equally in the substance of the sun, so also did the three
divine persons co-exist perpetually and co-equally in the
substance of the Uncreated Light. Thus after declaring the
8 3
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
sacred Unity in the most emphatic and explicit terms, the
hymn already quoted proceeds to invoke the three persons
by name, using, nevertheless, the singular pronoun for the
collective three.
" He is of many forms," so the hymn proceeds . " 0
Amen, establisher of all things, Atmu and Harmachis, all
people adore thee, saying, Praise to thee because of thy
resting among us, homage to thee because thou has created
us. All creatures say Hail to thee, and all lands praise thee .
From the height of the sky to the breadth of the earth and
to the depths of the sea art thou praised ."
Thus as the whole body of Egyptian temples prove upon
inspection to form a definite and co-ordinated system based
upon astronomical relations, so also does the worship of
Egypt, when seen in the light of the universal fatherhood,
reveal itself with a majestic unity not unworthy of its
unrivalled shrines. Had the case been otherwise indeed ; had
the real objects of Egyptian worship been a mass of deities
local and unrelated, then, inasmuch as the form of govern-
ment was well-nigh a pure theocracy, the authority of the
monarch being derived not merely from his descent but from
his personal union with Ra, and inasmuch as heresy was
punished with excommunication and even, as M . Maspero
states, with death by fire, it would have been inevitable that
each successive dynasty, as it proceeded now from This,
now from Memphis, now from Thebes, now from Sais,
should have torn up by the root the religion established by
its predecessors ; and the annals of Egypt would have been
as full of religious discord and confusion as those of our
Tudor princes .
History, however, has produced, so far, but one instance
of an endeavour on the part of the king to introduce novelty
into the religion . Amenoph IV, who married a foreign
princess, adopted the title of Khu-en-Aten,l or " Illuminate
-i Marsham Adams says : I have adopted the translation of the word Khou,
given by M. Devira in the passage above quoted, the hieroglyphs being
84
THE HIDDEN GOD
of the Disc"---a title which, as we may see, clearly outrages
the Ritual which we have seen embodied in the masonry.
For as the disc of the sun is but its visible surface, so the
" disc " of the tomb was but its entrance gate which was
lifted by Shu (the Light), " when the sun sets from the
world of life " : and to place the illumination therefore at
that point was to ignore all the grades of the Postulant, the
Initiate, and the Adept, and to destroy the most essential
conditions of illumination . In the same way the expression
" Living in Truth," which, as Petrie points out, was con-
stantly employed by Khuenaten, indicates, when applied
to the disc, the same degraded and idolatrous conception,
since it substitutes a material and visible object for that
Truth which in the older worship was spiritual, interior and
unseen. And thus, under the succeeding monarch, while
the word Aten was preserved, the offending title, Khu, was
sedulously obliterated.
If the divine Trinity, however, were the only secret of the
Ritual, there would not be so great a difficulty in following
its symbols. But there is a depth of mystery beyond, a
mystery the greater because manifested in a visible form .
Throughout the sacred writings of Egypt, there is no doc-
trine of which more frequent mention is made than that
of a divine birth. " I am thy nurse, thy dandier," says Isis
identical ; but the name, according to Flinders Petrie, is more correctly
pronounced Akhenaten . That diligent explorer, in his interesting work on
Tel-el-Amarna, the site of the palace built by Khuenaten, on the borders of
Middle and Upper Egypt, has abundantly illustrated the theory that the
monarch's object was to substitute the solar disc (Aten) as an object of
worship for the personal Deity-Ra, the Hidden God and Untreated Light,
Amen-previously worshipped under various symbols . This attempt, as well
as the distinction between the disc and the rays-which he also considers
Khuenaten to have introduced-Petrie characterises as a striking advance in
philosophical truth though it is difficult to understand in what way the
adoration of a material object in place of a Personal and Unseen God can
be philosophically regarded as an advance.
, See page 34., ante.
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
to the divine Horus in the inscription on the coffin of the
queen who bore the name of Ankh Nes Ra Nefer Ab
(signifying " Her Life is the sacred Heart of God ").1
And the figure portrayed upon that coffin six and twenty
centuries ago, and now to be seen in the British Museum,
with its sacred seals impressed upon the secret parts of the
body, its incision in the womb, and the rays descending upon
the head, proclaims unmistakably the birth from a virgin
mother beneath the overshadowing of the supernal light.
And nowhere is that celestial birth more vividly expressed
than in the temple of Hathor, the great hall of which speaks
of the Holy Child in his Cradle, in the midst of the vast
company of the heavenly hosts . Nor do we read in the
Ritual only of an incarnate, but of a suffering and a dying
God. We are confronted with the tears of Isis, and with the
agony of Osiris. Moreover, not only is the twofold action of
the same sacred person as man and God recognised, but it is
embodied in an animal symbolism ; just as among Christians
the symbol of the lamb is used for the divine person, the
calf and the eagle' for the evangelists . Take, for example,
the vignette of the Ritual representing the resurrection of
Osiris as taking place in the presence of the Egyptian
Trinity. The human form being the highest available, is
required by the supreme three ; and in order to represent
the lower nature, or divine humanity, it is necessary to take a
lower creature whose characteristic should indicate that of
the divine person represented . Of such a nature was the cat,
whose eyes, varying in form like the sun with the period of
the day, imaged to the Egyptian the splendour of the light .
And thus we have the cat cutting off the head of the serpent
of darkness, in the presence of the sacred three. And when
the original meaning of that symbolism was no longer
retained in their science, it would naturally give rise to the
foolishness of animal worship .
No less profound was the relation between the Creator
1 See Budge's translation, verse 438, p . liii. ' Also the lion.
86
THE HIDDEN GOD
and his works, as intimated in their well-known symbol for
created life, called the Ankh,' or sacred mirror, wherein
every great deity contemplates perpetually his own image ;
but which is rarely grasped in the hand of any except Amen .
But how should the universe be represented by a mirror,
and, if it be, why should the heavenly powers behold them-
selves reflected in it ? Since Egypt gives only the symbols
but affords no clue to the connection, and since that profound
relation is not affected by the lapse of ages, let us hear the
great master of mediaeval philosophy. According to the
teachings of Aquinas, the universe exists in a twofold
manner, first ideally in the mind of God, and secondly
materially, externally to him, so that in creation the Almighty
contemplates his own mind as in a mirror . As a dramatist,
before he gives living expression to his characters, conceives
in his own mind their forms, their countenances, their
actions, passions and conditions of life, with all the details of
their environment, and as his work reflects the image of the
author's mind, so in the theosophy of Egypt did the entire
cosmos, embracing all space, all time, and all orders of
created being, reflect a single thought in the mind of the
Creator. Man himself, therefore, had a double or a counter-
part in the divine idea, the sacred " type," the festival of
which is celebrated in the Ritual, and is masonically expressed
within the niche of the Chamber of New Birth . Hence it
was that the ideal counterpart possessed such sanctity that
the monarch himself is represented as sacrificing to his own
" double."
Thus in the theosophy of Egypt the divine relations of the
invisible creation were made manifest by those of their
visible counterpart. And the same relation of the material
1 Another signification, that of a fisherman's knot, has of late been
adopted by some authorities, says Marsham Adams, and adds : But
the shape of the knot differs essentially from that of the Ankh, the head of the
latter being upright upon the stem. And again, how should a fisherman's knot
stand upright upon the knees of the gods ? And if it could, why should it t
8 7
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
to the immaterial world will be found to underlie our own
scientific conceptions, wherein the expressed form is ever
the counterpart of the impressed force . For can any mathe-
matician define the very nature of force otherwise than as
that which sets matter in motion ?1 But if force be that which
sets matter in motion, it cannot itself be material, if the funda-
mental law of motion be true that matter at rest remains at
rest. Unless, therefore, our whole conception of dynamical
science is wrong from the beginning, the motions of the
material universe (and it is of the motions of the heavenly
bodies, and not merely of their existence, that the Ritual
speaks) must be the result of an immaterial force impressing
itself upon the material world, the mind of the Creator giving
form to his creation . And it is in the perception of that action
that the supreme gift of the human mind, the imaginative
faculty of genius, is most fully exercised ; for genius is the
power of giving expression to the unexhausted forms of
creation potentially existing in the mind of the Creator .
Pursue Egyptian theosophy in which direction we may,
the things of time speak ever of eternity, the self-existent
Deity is always secretly reflected in his creatures. Accord-
ingly each phenomenon of nature conveyed to them a cor-
responding manifestation of the divine personality, and
according to the Ritual it was the Deity indwelling in the
soul, which confers upon the man the power of perceiving
these relations . " I am perception," we read, " the imperish-
able soul ." In the noonday glow of the sun they beheld the
splendour of Ra ; in his setting, the death of Osiris ; in the
new dawn, his resurrection as the incarnate Horus ; in the
glowing fire, the creator-spirit, Ptah ; in the harmonious
proportions of the universe, the Eternal Wisdom, Thoth,
" the mind and will of God " ; in the starry firmament,
1 The physicist of to-day would undoubtedly not accept this as in any way
a complete or satisfactory definition of what he would prefer to term " energy,"
yet the most modem concepts of the universe are far from being essentially
at variance with the ideas that Marsham Adams puts before us .
8 8
THE HIDDEN GOD
crowned by Alcyone and the Pleiades (the sacred bull and
attendant cows), the ineffable beauty of Athor,' the living
tabernacle of the Sacred Light .
Bearing now carefully in mind the extreme complexity of
this secret parallelism, and the strict analogy between the
visible and invisible worlds which constitutes the basis of the
political organism, we have little difficulty in perceiving the
importance of the function in regard to the Hidden God,
discharged by the House of Osiris, and can see that in this
masonic record we have a key to the whole politico-religious
constitution of the country-a key which none could
imitate, none could alter, none destroy ; which no man could
comprehend unless initiated, nor any forget or mistake,
who had once received illumination . Accordingly, in that
masonry we find the originals of many of the mystic symbols,
whereby the priests so expressed the divine and the royal
authority as to be intelligible to those and those alone who
had been initiated masonically. Thus, if we draw the groove
of the orbit in the Chamber of Splendour, with " The Wall
of Earth " at the northern end separating the Orbit from the
Shadow, we shall have the hieroglyph for the orbit " Sen-
nen," which is identical with the cartouche,$ surrounding
the title of the monarch. That familiar symbol, by the aid of
which Champollion first divined the secret of the writing, is
therefore nothing else than a masonic sign, signifying that
not the circumference, but the immensely more extensive
orbit of the earth is the limit of royal authority ; and indicat-
ing thereby (since the orbit implies renewal from age to age)
its endurance no less than its universality . Again, if we
represent the course traced by the overlappings of the rays in
the roof of the Upper Hall of Truth, we have a representa-
tion of the Celestial Nile as depicted in the Vignettes of the
1 As Marsham Adams points out, this is properly Hat-hor, The House of
Horus, the Risen God of Light.
8 9
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
Ritual and the hieroglyph of its earthly counterpart, while if
we draw the great throne in the Double Hall of Truth with
ROOF OF UPPER HALL. HIEROGLYPH SYMBOL OF THE NILE.
the central line of the light running down to the depths of
the rock on which it is built, we obtain the hieroglyph
denoting Divinity., And if we add to this the lower portion
9 9
THRONE AND SYMBOL OF TERRITORY OF
AXIS. DIVINITY. THE HOLY DEAD .
of the building, or territory of Initiation, there results the
hieroglyph for the territory of the Holy Dead .
Again, suppose that we represent the same place interiorly
by drawing the Well, where the reborn soul is reunited to
the postulant, together with the line where the interior
fntran" into
0
,,tenor Masonry
WELL OF LIFE, PLACE OF INITIATION .
masonry is bounded by the natural rock through which
entrance or initiation into the interior masonry is obtained
from below-the entrance impassable by the postulant until
the soul is restored to him . Then, if we indicate the image
of the Well itself, shining in its own living but invisible
waters, as seen by the soul from above, just as the Creator
ANKH, SYMBOL OF CREATED LIFE.
looks down on His own image in the universe, we obtain the
symbol of the " Ankh," or mirror of Life. So, too, if we
I Nuter.
9o
THE HIDDEN GOD
represent the descent traversed by the Initiate from the
Head of the Well to the opening into Chamber of the Fiery
Ordeal, we have the Sceptre of Ptah, the Spirit of Divine
OPENING FROM WELL
TO CHAMBER OF DIVINE FIRE .
Fire. And if we represent the passage of the horizon
together with the masonry of the entrance, we have the
sceptre of Anup, the Guide of the Soul .
PASSAGE OF POLE-STAR. SCEPTRE OF ANUP .
Sometimes the whole hieroglyphic name receives illus-
tration at least, if not origination, from the same pyramidal
source ; as, for instance, in the name of Hapi, the radiant
guardian of the Nile. For if we draw the Grand Arch of the
highest chamber, imaging the Grand Arch of the universe,
the seat of that luminous spirit, we shall produce the initial
of that word. . And if we add the Entrance Gate (itself sur-
mounted by the Double Arch), together with the scored line
in the passage of the Horizon, pointing downward
to the foundation of the rock, we shall have the 0
complete set of hieroglyphs which compose his
name, and thus masonically indicate his office as protector
of the rock, the mouth, and fount of the River of Light .
But by far the most important expression of these truths
9 1
SCEPTRE OF PTAH
SPIRIT OF DIVINE FIRE .
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
is contained in the kalendar, or recurrent series of festivals,
which reflected on earth the rejoicings of heaven ; and a full
understanding of which was one of the glories reserved in the
Ritual for the Illuminate . By means of the kalendar the
" Mystery-Teachers of the Heavens " co-ordinated not only
the political but the social life of the nation with the theo-
sophy of The Light, while through its masonic expression
the divine attributes of the Hidden Deity were at once
communicated to the instructed and protected from the
profane. To their sense indeed of the divine personality, far
more probably than to any artificial pretension to a supposed
exclusiveness which does not seem to have had any real
existence, may be ascribed the mystery enshrouding their
religion. For mystery is to God only what privacy is to man,
our sense of which deepens with deepening intimacy . And
though three hundred years of continuous wrangling over
the secret truths which most profoundly affect the heart and
mind have gone far to coarsen and deaden our spiritual sense,
the soul still resents, as the most unpardonable offence, the
profanation of a vulgar touch . For whether we acknowledge
it or not, the springs of our entire existence are hidden .
From the darkness of the womb to the darkness of the tomb,
the source of our every action is veiled from us . Mystery is
the beginning ; mystery is the ending ; mystery is the whole
body of our life. We cannot breathe, nor sleep, nor eat, nor
move, far less think or speak, without exercising powers
which to us are inconceivable, by means of processes which
to us are inscrutable . Who is so ignorant as not to know
these things ; who so learned as to make them clear ?
Most powerful and most hidden of all motives is the
passion which grows the more reticent as it is enduring, the
passion which dominates at once the senses and the spirit,
the master-mystery of love. But Love himself was none
other than the hidden God. In Greece, where some rays of
Egyptian wisdom penetrated with a brightness unknown to
more distant lands, this truth was not unknown . Love was
92
THE HIDDEN GOD
the third in the Trinity of Hesiod. And in Parmenides we
read how strife has entered into the deepest places, " but in
the centre Love stands calm ." But in the teaching of Egypt,
the Creator's love, so conspicuous in the sublime hymn
already quoted, is the motive power of the universe . " I am
the Inundation," says the Creator in the Ritual-" the fulness
of the torrent of life." And again, " I am the Fount of
Joy," the inexhaustible source of happiness to the soul .
Most striking, too, is the allusion which occurs in another
hymn to Amen, where it speaks of the crown of illumination,
" ATF," CROWN OF SU-
PREME LIGHT, CROWN OF
ILLUMINATE IN BURNING
CIRCLE OF THE ORBIT .
LIGHT OF SUPREME HEAVEN,
CROWN OF BURNING CIRCLE OF ZODIAC .
or " Atf " crown of the monarchs fashioned after the form of
the zodiacal light which sometimes crowns the Zodiac, the
Burning Circle of supreme heaven before the summer dawn .
That crown we learn from the Ritual was placed upon the
head of the Illuminate on his accomplishing the " Passage
of the Sun," in the ascent of " the orbit," and the hymn
proclaims that " North and South of that crown is love ."
That love it was, wherein the catechumen of the Egyptian
Wisdom was instructed from the Secret Scroll, and into the
mysteries of which he was initiated and illuminated by the
Master of the Secret House. So that when, Illuminate in the
masonic Light, after ascending the Chamber of the Orbit,
stood before -the throne at its higher end, northward and
southward of him was Love-to the northward, the Love
manifested in the starry guide which led him to the know-
ledge of truth in its splendour, and before him was the Love
concealed in the heights of heaven, the Secret Places of the
Hidden God.
93
CHAPTER VI
THE MYSTERY OF THE HEAVENS
TIME, the most powerful factor in the determination of
human affairs, is also the most impalpable. Of everything
else which forms the subject of measurement, for instance the
velocity of the wind or the extension of space we can con-
ceive, by analogy at least, some kind of mental picture ; but
of time we find it equally hard to pronounce whether it have
or have not any distinctive existence . If there be any one
mental fact which man accepts for himself as unquestionable,
it is that we know our past and are ignorant of our future,
yet between past and future who shall define the point of
separation ? So subtle, so imperceptible is that infinitesimal
and ever-moving barrier between the two limitless expanses,
that atom of existence which we call the present moment,
that it eludes even the grasp of thought .
If a man says " I am "-the simple declaration of his own
existence, and as short a sentence as he can well utter-when
he has pronounced the word " I," the word " am " is in the
future ; when he says " am," the word " I " is in the past.
Yet alike from the moment which has just gone by, and from
that which is even now at hand, we are separated by a gulf as
absolutely impassable as that which divides us from the days
of the Pharaohs, or from the future of a thousand years to
come. " God himself cannot undo the past," says Pindar.
" Shadow forever veiled, forever near, Thou who art called
To-morrow," cries the French poet in a well-known ode .
" I am Yesterday," says Osiris in the Egyptian Ritual,
signifying that he for whom the past is still in existence is
94
THE MYSTERY OF THE HEAVENS
freed from the conditions of time which limit the mortal
intellect.
But time, though in itself inconceivable, produces effects
which are both palpable and universal ; for none can over-
look the changes which time works on all visible things, and
more particularly in the two most potent forms of change,
namely those of growth and motion . Wherever either the
increase in magnitude or the change in position in any given
body during a given period can be measured, there it is
evident that time can be measured along with it . Thus the
varying aspect of the flowers or the direction of the falling
shadows marks the passing hour . The recurrence of certain
well-known scents and sounds proclaims the advent and
departure of seasons. The gradual alteration in ourselves or
in our friends tells us of the lapse of years, nor can we
measure time except by change .
How then to find a definite and constant standard, never
altering and never ceasing, whereto we may refer this most
fugitive and elusive element ? In the mechanism of the
heavens alone-that is to say, in the relative changes of the
celestial bodies, constantly varying yet ever renewed after
fixed intervals of time-can such a measure be found, which
will continue to recur unfailingly though ages pass away .
Chief among such periods is that of the orbit of our own
planet, the motion of which gives the key to all the varying
aspects of the universe . From that orbit, the line of the
Pharaohs derived one of their proudest titles, " Neb
Sennen," Lord of the Orbit, proclaiming at once the univer-
sality and the endurance of their dominion ; and from it the
Initiate in the Egyptian Ritual obtained his Illumination in
celestial things. That motion also is invested in no slight
degree with the serenity of the heavens ; and no natural
image is fraught with greater radiance or tranquillity than
that of the rolling year as it circles perpetually about the feet
of God. Even in the midst of cloud and fog, the mere
striking of a clock, that record of planetary motion, serves to
9 5
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
remind us how circumscribed is the surrounding gloom, and
how the dull earth beneath our feet is, even as we gaze upon
it, shining to its companions in the fields of light, as that
lustrous orbit is woven, revolution after revolution with
never-failing beauty, cycle after cycle of age-long periods,
like golden serpents, twine themselves around it, and span
the gulfs of time with the years of the Most High .
Such a system of harmonious periods and of measured
intervals, corresponding to universal, not arbitrary
standards, was a natural, and indeed an essential, element in
the theosophy of a priesthood whose religious teaching was
intentionally veiled under the analogies of astronomy. In
examining, therefore, the astronomical science of the
" Mystery-Teachers of the Heavens,", to use the official
title employed in the Court of Pharaoh, we may not un-
reasonably expect to trace the origin and signification of
various familiar measures, of which the use is widely diffused,
but the fundamental conception unknown . Nor shall we be
altogether disappointed in this respect ; while a sudden and
vivid interest will be found to attach to the common units of
time and space, when we perceive that they are not the fruit
of any arbitrary arrangement, however ingenious, but are
the products of universal concords, and represent, so to
speak, the beats and bars of the music of the spheres .
That the moon was the sacred and, at least in early times,
the secret standard of Egyptian science, there seems little
doubt. Thoth, the Great Lord of Wisdom and of Measure,
the divine recorder, before whom stood the Balance of
Justice, wherein the light and darkness of man's mortal life
were weighed, was lord, not of the sun, but of the moon ;
and so to that latter orb we are indebted for our fundamental
standards both of space and time, as we may easily see,
1 Marsham Adams says : For most of the facts here stated with regard to
Egyptian Astronomy, I am indebted to the invaluable researches of the late
lamented Dr. Brugsch upon the Kalendar, as I am also to his history for
quotations from the papyri, and allusions to the customs of the country .
9 6
THE MYSTERY OF THE HEAVENS
remembering always that we are dealing with approximate
measures, and " mean," or average motions. For the posi-
tion of a heavenly body is, in general, not the same to an
observer on the earth's surface as it would be if he were
stationed at its centre, which is the chief point of astronomic
reference. This difference, or parallax, must therefore be
always taken into consideration ; and in the case of the
moon, when on the horizon, it is found to be about , the
three hundred and sixtieth part of the circle of the heavens-
that is a degree ; and conversely, therefore, the fundamental
measure of the circle is given by the difference between the
moon's apparent position on rising at any place as seen by an
observer at the earth's surface, and the position in which it
would appear at the same moment if viewed by an observer
at the centre of the earth. Equally simple is the fundamental
measure of time, namely the hour or period required by the
moon in her orbit, relatively to the sun, to traverse a space
equal to her own disc ; and this measure was peculiarly sacred
in Egypt, each hour of the twenty-four which elapse during
a single rotation of the earths being consecrated to its own
particular deity, twelve of light and twelve of darkness .
" Explain the God in the Hour " is the demand made of the
adept in the Hall of Justification. And that God in the Hour,
we learn, was Thoth, the Lord of the Moon and the
" Reckoner of the Earth ."
A singular relation of a similar kind exists between the
lunar period and the risings of the stars, which was also
utilised by the Egyptian astronomers . For whereas in regard
to the apparent position of the sun, relatively to the rest of
the heavens, the motion of the earth in her orbit has a
perceptible effect ; in regard to the stars, the distances are
1 Marsham Adams points out that it falls short by not quite three (circular)
minutes, or rather less than a seven-thousandth part of the circumference .
s Marsham Adams makes it clear that the word " rotation " is always
applied in this work to the motion of a body about its own axis ; " revolution,"
to its motion around another body.
97
G
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
so enormous that the orbit of the earth shrinks into insig-
nificance. The time therefore which elapses between any
two successive risings of the same star at any given place will,
on the average, be a little less than that between any two
successive risings of the sun at that place ; since in the first
case the time depends only upon the complete rotation of
the place round the centre of the earth, whereas in the latter,
the motion of the earth's centre during the interval must be
taken into account . This difference is, on the average, about
four minutes in every twenty-four hours, and will, therefore,
in fifteen days, amount to an hour . Accordingly we learn
from a most interesting paper published by Professor
Renouf on a kalendar of the Nineteenth Dynasty, the
observations of the stars were taken every fifteenth day, thus
correlating the sidereal period with the domestic period of
the hour.
Again, the interval which on the average elapses between
the moments in which the moon successively comes to the
full (always in relation to a given place such as Memphis),
that is to say a lunar month or "lunation," is about 29J
solar days. Suppose now we take as a unit of time thirty such
solar days ; then each lunar month would fall short of that
period by half a day or one-sixtieth part, and the lunar year,
consisting of twelve such periods, would fall short by six
days, so that all the measures would be proportionate . Here,
then, we possess the key to a most singular correlation
between the lunar motions and the solar months (consisting
of thirty solar days), which Dr . Brugsch has pointed out in
the Table of Edfu ; which was published in the days of the
Ptolemies, but never, apparently, while a native monarch
reigned. On the first day was celebrated the " conception of
the moon," when that orb was on the meridian at noon
(while still invisible to the observer)-a refinement unknown
to our kalendar ; on the second day its birth, or first appear-
ance, and so on throughout the month of thirty days . During
the first month, therefore, the lunar intervals would of course
98
THE MYSTERY OF THE HEAVENS
correspond more or less precisely with the solar days . But
whereas the two sets would grow progressively asunder, the
lunar names remained affixed to the same solar days. Thus
the first day of each solar month was called the conception
of the moon, and the second new moon, although neither
phenomenon might have taken place anywhere near the
time-a method of expression necessitating, it would seem,
a double form of register, and simple enough to those who
held the clue, but to a stranger hopelessly misleading.
Turning now to the motions of our own planet we find, as
Dr. Brugsch has shown, that the Egyptian division of the
solar, or to speak more correctly, of the terrestrial year,
depended upon a knowledge of the 2651 rotations performed
by the earth while completing (approximately) one revolu-
tion around the sun-an extra day being intercalated every
fourth or " grand " year. But this method of regarding the
matter arises out of our own slovenly method of expressing
astronomical ideas, and our habitual employment of language
embodying the confused and confusing conceptions of the
Greeks ; and it by no means does justice to the Egyptian
exactness. The truth is that a single year or revolution of the
earth is marked by no cosmic or universal correspondence .
Only in the fourth or " grand " year, as it was termed, is a
harmony established by the simultaneous (or nearly simul-
taneous) completion of the rotary and revolutionary motions ;
while at the same time the sun himself, drawing with him the
whole planetary system, completes an arc of his own mighty
orbit, about equal to the whole circuit of the course of the
earth. Accordingly, every year appears to have included (as
it does in reality) the three hundred and sixty-sixth day . But
adhering strictly to fact, the last solar day of the old year was
identical with the first of the new, the day of " completion-
beginning " ; except in every fourth or grand year, when the
earth's revolution being completed simultaneously, or very
nearly simultaneously, with a rotation, the two festivals
became distinct. Moreover, since four minutes (of time)
99
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
a day amounts in the course of a year to the time occupied by
a complete rotation of the earth, it follows that the number
of such rotations or sidereal days in each year exceeds by one
the solar days ; the difference being due to the fact that the
change in the earth's position every twenty-four hours, owing
to its orbital motion, must be taken into consideration in
regard to the sun, but is imperceptible when compared with
the distance of the stars . By the method of reckoning, there-
fore, above described, the solar or apparent days are har-
monised with the number of earth's true rotations. This
being the principle, every year admitted of division into two
portions, one consisting of an orbit of three hundred and
sixty days, of which the lunar year fell short by the same
number of days as the solar year exceeded it ; the other, that
of the sacred interval or " panegyric," as Dr. Brugsch applies
the term, consisting of six days, each being a festival of
special sanctity.
That orbit again of three hundred and sixty days, was
itself divided not only into twelve equal solar months, , but
also into three equal seasons (each of one hundred and
twenty days), corresponding, as Dr . Brugsch has shown, to
the three great physical divisions of the Egyptian year-the
season of the inundation (" Se "), commencing with the rise
of the Nile, about the time of the new moon nearest the
summer solstice ; the season of winter (" Pir "), and the
season of heat (" Semou "), answering more or less to our
spring. Hence in every year the period of three hundred and
sixty days was divided either into three equal seasons, each
containing twelve decades of days, or into twelve equal
months, each containing three decades of days ; while the
sacred interval bore the same ratio to that whole period
(one-sixtieth) as a minute (or circular arc) bears to a degree ;
and the excess quarter of a day upon which the whole
arrangement depended bore the same ratio to the sacred
interval (one twenty-fourth) as the solar hour to the complete
1 See note J, p . 176.
1 00
THE MYSTERY OF THE HEAVENS
day. It is not unworthy of remark also, that whereas in the
order of the seasons, as corrected by Dr. Brugsch, their
hieroglyphs have no correspondence with the physical year
(as Champollion believed to be the case), and appear there-
fore to be arbitrary and unmeaning ; yet when we refer to
the course of the soul in the Ritual, we find them to sym-
bolise three successive stages of its progress ; the fields of
Aahlu,l into which it comes forth from the Chamber of New
Birth ; the Enclosures of the Hidden Lintel of justice, the
beginning of Justification ; and the source of the Celestial
Nile,* where it receives the crown of illumination.
For ordinary purposes and comparatively short periods
the reckoning of the Grand Cycle suffices ; but for long
intervals the correspondence is not sufficiently exact ; the
real difference each year falling short of a quarter of a day by
nearly twelve minutes, or the fifth part of an hour (less a
certain number of seconds). But the fifth part of an hour will,
it is obvious, in thirty years itself amount to six hours, that
is, to a quarter of a day ; and accordingly every thirty years
we find a special festival or jubilee celebrated in the Kalendar
of Egypt ; thus commemorating the period said to have been
occupied in building the Pyramid of Light . And in five
hundred years, or the Egyptian Cycle of the Phoenix, the
same difference will amount to between four and five days,
that is, very nearly to the sacred interval ; so that if that
interval be omitted, the orbit of the coming year joins the
orbit of the departing, and every five hundred years the
Phoenix renews itself. All these cycles, therefore, centre
round the adjustment of the quarter of a day ; and so
essential an element was that quarter in all calculations
relating to the Kalendar, that every fourth year, if we may
trust Horapollo, the festival was celebrated by the addition
of a quarter of an acre to the land belonging to the temples .
-Itrf f z I
1 0 1
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
Of the three seasons, that of the inundation was the first
and principal ; and the flood of the Nile ran like a sparkling
current through the religion of the country . " I am the
Inundation," says the Creator in the sixty-fourth chapter,
said to be the oldest on the Ritual,' " the Light of the
Second Birth." Every stage in the annual flood of the life-
giving river was the subject of a special festival. Some little
time before the summer solstice, the first symptom of the
coming rise was given by the waters in Upper Egypt
becoming suffused with a crimson colour . Of this singular
phenomenon, which goes by the name of " Red Nile,"
Herodotus has left a very fine account ; and it is curious to
note, as an instance of strong accord between ancient and
modern travellers, that his description is quoted at great
length by the eminent Egyptologist, Professor Maspero .
The Red Nile is remarkable in every way ; but in none
perhaps more than in the fact that the waters are at that time
peculiarly sweet, while at " Green Nile," as another period
is called, the reverse is the case. To the former condition, in
connection with the midsummer sun, allusion seems to be
made in the " Eye filled with blood," mentioned in the
Ritual ; and to the latter in the intolerable stench " made
by Osiris in the river . About the period corresponding to
our month of July, the waters begin to rise ; and the
" Sailing of the Bark of Ra " was celebrated, together with
the birthday of Osiris . A few days later was held the great
Assembly at the Nilometer, or sacred " Tat," the most
venerable symbol known to their worship ; and the first
proclamation of the rise was made . Towards the middle of
August took place the cutting of the Grand Dyke, whereby
the risen stream was permitted to overflow into private
channels ; a ceremony celebrated in more modern times as
the " Marriage of the Nile," but known to the ancient world
as the festival of the " Digging of the Earth ." No less a
sanctity, in short, attached to every phase of that stream of
' Cf. Note r, p. 48.
102
THE MYSTERY OF THE HEAVENS
life than to the " Celestial Nile " itself, of which the earthly
river was the image and counterpart .
It may now be not uninteresting or uninstructive to
compare for a moment the system of Egypt with our own
Leap Year, for which we are, in fact, indebted to that
country, through the astronomer Sosigenes, who was
imported by Julius Caesar from Alexandria, to remedy in
some degree the confusion of the Roman Kalendar . That
famous Greek appears to have performed his task very much
after a fashion not unknown to adopters . He cared-perhaps
he knew-very little about the astronomical principle
involved in the Egyptian reckoning, and nothing at all about
the niceties of further adjustment which it demanded ;
indeed, before half a century had passed, his own corrections
required to be corrected. He took no heed of standard or of
measure, of orbit or of sacred interval . But first he cut up the
year into twelve unequal and unmeaning bits-to say he
divided it into portions is far too scientific an expression-
which rags bore indeed the name of the insulted moon, but
of which that mighty measurer condescended to make no
sort of recognition . And then he threw the " odd day " in
along with the " odd month " ; much as a child, who has
broken his toy horse, glues a bit of tail to the shortest of the
legs, and calls aloud on creation to admire his handiwork .
Nor is the difference between the Egyptian and the alien
treatment of the kalendar accidental or unimportant . On the
contrary, it suggests the key to its use in the ancient country,
as the great politico-religious instrument whereby the social
economy of the nation was co-ordinated with the theosophy
of the priesthood. Among modern nations monotony of
recurrence seems to be the single object desired, so as to
offer every facility for the arrangements of business or
pleasure, and to confine within the strictest limits the
diminutive period allotted to the life to come . Any system,
therefore, which breaks the regular routine, more par-
ticularly if it be connected, as in ancient Egypt, with the
103
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
commemoration of sacred events, provokes impatience much
more than admiration. And the various adjustments of the
kalendar appear to be regarded as if they were odds and ends
of time left littering about the heavens by the sun and moon,
and requiring an ingenious astronomer-like Sosigenes-
to fold together and put away tidily.
Very different from this narrow and ungracious spirit was
the joyous temper wherewith the Egyptian " Mystery-
Teachers of the Heavens " regarded these sacred intervals.
Throughout the symbology of that country, life was the
centre, the circumference, the totality of good. Life was the
sceptre in the hand of Amen ; life was the richest " gift of
Osiris." " Be not ungrateful to thy Creator," says the sage
Ptah-Hotep, in what is perhaps the oldest document in
existence ; " for he has given thee life . " I am the Fount
of Light," says the Creator in the Ritual . " I pierce the
darkness . I make clear the path for all ; the Lord of Joy."
By them, therefore, the intervals were gratefully accepted as
a kind of breathing-space, wherein time, like the sun at the
solstice, appears for a while to rest, and man, like the
immortals, might enjoy, without impairing, the treasure of
life. Accordingly the panegyric, or time of praise, separating,
or rather uniting year with year, took place not in the gloom
of winter as with us, -but in the full height and glow of
summer ; at the period at once of accomplishment and
renovation, when the sun was in his fullest strength, and the
rising of the waters of the Nile began to renew their life-
giving floods. On the first day of the sacred interval of con-
tinuous praise was celebrated the birth of Osiris, the Lord
of Light, Prime Mover of Creation . On the second, Horus ;
God of God ; Light of Light ; the eldest of creation, to use
the expression of the Egyptian Ritual. On the third, Seb,
Creator of earth. On the fourth, Isis, with her double
relation of human and divine motherhood . On the fifth,
Neith, from whose divine personality gushed the stream of
life eternal, who " gave to every mummy the draught for
1 04
THE MYSTERY OF THE HEAVENS
which he thirsted, that his soul might be separated from him
no more for ever." And on the sixth day was celebrated the
feast of " Hep-Tep," the crowning festival of " Completion-
Beginning."
Such was the symphony of light and joy which, for the
Egyptian, preluded the glowing year ; and such also was its
masonic expression, wherein was struck the full diapason of
lunar and solar, of terrestrial and celestial, of temporal and
spiritual harmony. As the Lunar Chamber of New Birth,
the Habitation of Isis, " the Mother of God " and the
" Queen of the Pyramid,", was originally closed up, thus
forming the trebly veiled and most secret portion of the
Hidden Places, so in the eastern staircase of that chambers
we seem to discover the most secret masonic key, both to the
astronomical form and the spiritual signification-the
exterior and the interior light . For in its fivefold gradation
we have the correlation of the lunar motion with the sun, in
the five degrees of the moon's ascent and descent each
month from the ecliptic . Again, since the sacred quarter of
a day whereby the earth's rotation was harmonised with its
revolution exceeds the true period by (very nearly) twelve
minutes ; so in five years does that annual excess make up
(5 X 12 =) 6o minutes, the lunar measure of the hour.
And thus we read in the Ritual of the " Chamber of the
Hour of Rusta," the territory both of death and birth . In
the same staircase, around the niche or " type," wherein the
regenerate soul is formed-the image of the Queen of the
Pyramid-we have the fivefold regeneration of the senses ;
and in it, too, we may recognise, in such a form as to preserve
but not to betray this trebly hidden masonic key, the double
1 Cf. note 4, P. 30.
2 The figure is sculptured on the eastern wall of the Queen's Chamber in
the Great Pyramid.
1 05
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
throne of Isis and Osiris, pointing not improbably to a yet
more secret staircase within .
Even this does not exhaust the fulness of this prolific
symbol ; but it gives a clue beyond its own immediate
Ffl 1--i
THRONES OF ISIS AND OSIRIS.
recess, and connects the Chamber of New Birth with the
luni-solar Chamber of the Orbit, just as the New Birth itself
connects Rusta with Aahlu ; the place of Initiation with that
of Illumination. For in the same ascent in the Chamber of
Divine Birth, we have the five divine birthdays, which make
up the solar year. Immediately above is the great throne,
crowning the lunar chamber, and masonically expressing the
Egyptian " Hep-Tep," or crowning festival of completion-
beginning ; as the chamber which it surmounts represents
the territory of both Death and Birth-the " Completion-
Beginning " of mortal Immortality. By the overlappings of
the roof are formed thirty-six rays or indentations, marking
the thirty-six decades of the luni-solar orbit. The southern
wall, impending about one degree north, points to the
northern boundary of the zodiacal belt ; the lower line of
overlapping wall to its southern boundary and between are
the seven planetary spaces, with the groove of the luni-solar-
orbit running down the space corresponding to that of the
earth.
Still further illustrations of the relations between our
planet and her luminous assistant, as together they describe
the doubly ruled Orbit of Light, are to be found in this
extraordinary Chamber of the Splendour . As the wall points
secretly to the northern, and the inclined floor to the southern
boundary of the Burning Circle of the Zodiac (about 89° and
152' of North Polar Distance) respectively ; so does the
inclination of the roof to the level passages (about 28 °3o')
s Leading to the Queen's Chamber.
io6
THE MYSTERY OF THE HEAVENS
secretly define the limiting inclination of the lunar orbit
(about 28°3o') to the sacred plane of the equinox. And the
fifty-six ramp-stones, twenty-eight on either side, give
masonic expression to the fifty-six alternations of light and
darkness which take place approximately in the period of
the moon's rotation, twenty-eight of the ascent and twenty-
eight of the descent ; the double position of the stones,
partly horizontal, partly sloping, corresponding with the
double attraction of the moon to the earth and the sun ; and
the holes in their centres, with the crosses marked above
them, indicating the lunar transits over the Grand Meridian
of the House of Osiris.
Recurring once more to the Kalendar, it is evident that a
system combining so wonderful a harmony with such perfect
simplicity could never have been constructed without some
definite starting-point in time, a Grand Epoch absolutely
defined by some singular conjunction of the heavenly
bodies, and occurring only after long and clearly measured
intervals. Such an interval is afforded by the famous Cycle
of Sothis, of high antiquity in Egypt, and peculiar to that
country, the principle of which, being dependent upon the
relative rates of the earth's rotation and revolution respec-
tively, has by no means always been thoroughly understood .,
Since the average interval between two successive risings
of a given star at a particular place is determined only by the
period of the earth's rotation, whereas in the case of the sun
a period of abour four minutes must be added, on account of
the motion of revolution in her orbit during that period, it
follows, as we have seen, that the star will on the average rise
at that place about four minutes earlier every day, making
the round of the twenty-four hours every year . Consequently
there will be in each year one day when that star will rise at
that place " heliacally," that is to say just so long before the
1 As for instance, as Marsham Adams points out, by the famous scholar
Scaliger, whose misunderstanding was exposed by Professor Graves, the
Oxford Astronomer, in A.D. r64o.
1 07
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
dawn as to be visible for a few moments before vanishing in
the increasing splendour. The position of the star relatively
to the earth and sun at the moment of heliacal rising we may
call its orient ; and when the position is such as to coincide
with the summer solstice, we may express that position as
the Grand Orient of the star . Now the number of degrees
by which the sun is below the horizon when the heliacal
rising of a star takes place, is not fully determined, and
varies to some extent with the locality ; but ten degrees
below is usually taken as the sun's position when the star is
lost in dawn, so that the time would be about forty minutes
before full sunrise .
Let us now consider the interval between two such
risings of some particular star ; and for that purpose let us
choose, like the Egyptians, Sirius or Sothis, the most
brilliant of the distant suns, the flaming sentinel to us of the
fiery hosts of space . Suppose, then, that on some particular
day (such as that of summer solstice) Sothis is on the horizon
of Memphis when the sun is eleven degrees below it, that is
one degree below the point of dawn . On that day Sothis will
rise heliacally, and will remain visible on the -horizon for
about four minutes (while the earth rotates through one
degree), after which it will be lost in the break of dawn. On
the anniversary of that day it will again be on the horizon,
when the earth completes her two hundred and sixty-fifth
rotation ; that is, when our planet is a quarter of a degree
less advanced in her orbit, since the full revolution takes
2654 rotations. Hence, since the earth rotates through a
quarter of a degree in a minute (of time), there will be the
difference of a minute in the corresponding rising each year,
and therefore of four minutes in each grand cycle . But since
four minutes makes the difference of a day in the star's first
appearance, there will be for every grand cycle a difference
of a day in the heliacal rising of the star ; and consequently
in 4 X 36s1 (or 1,461) years the whole orbit will be
traversed. That lovely cycle, with its tetrachord of starry
1 08
THE MYSTERY OF THE HEAVENS
light, just gleaming on the horizon and then vanishing, lost
in the growing splendour, appears from the allusions to the
dawn to have had its spiritual analogue in the festival of the
" Shapes," or divine forms of beauty ; when the departed
re-created in the divine image rose gloriously from the grave,
and shone for a while amid the company of starry spirits,
before merging his lustre, though not his existence, in the
splendour of the manifested Godhead.
From this highly important cycle we may draw some con-
clusion as to the grand epoch of the Egyptian Kalendar ; the
date, that is to say, when mere tradition came to an end, and
systematic records, organised upon astronomical principles,
began to be preserved. Since in the course of the cycle, the
heliacal risings take place on each day of the entire year, they
will run during the first half of the cycle in one direction
(relatively to the earth's orbit) and in the latter half in the
opposite. And since there is also a corresponding series of
settings, subject to a similar change of direction, the two
series would in each cycle make up a double reversal, inter-
changing positions not once but twice . When therefore
Herodotus tells us in a well-known passage (Euterp. 143),
how, according to the Egyptian records, the risings and
settings had been out of their order four times since their
reckoning commences ; " the risings twice taking the place
of the settings, and the settings twice taking the place of the
risings," the meaning becomes perfectly clear if referred
(as Rawlinson suggests) to the heliacal risings and settings
of Sothis, the determinator of the Kalendar. And the very
circumstance that Herodotus himself in all probability did
not understand-and was not intended to understand-the
drift of the extract, strongly corroborates its authenticity and
his statement that it was not his own, but was read to him
from the sacred books. Indeed it is very difficult to conceive
that a person, ignorant of astronomy, should so misrepresent
a statement made to him by astronomers, as to blunder by
accident into the correct exposition of a different and highly
log
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
complex astronomical relation . We learn, therefore, that
two Sothiac cycles (four reversals) had been completed since
the institution of the scientific Kalendar ; so that the cycle
then current in the time of Herodotus would be the third.
And as there is evidence that that cycle was completed in
A.D. 139, and therefore commenced in 13 ,22 B.c. ; at which
epoch Sothis rose heliacally at Memphis about a week before
the solstice, and the Rising of the river was heralded by the
Orient of the star. Hence, therefore, we conclude that the
commencement of the first Sothiac cycle and the institution
of the scientific Kalendar took place (2 X 1,46 1 years
previously, i.e.) at the summer solstice of 4244 B .c.-a few
years before the reign of the astronomer-architect Khufu,
the most famous monarch of antiquity-the moment of
commencement being marked by the heliacal rising of
Sothis. In Chapter lxiv, which describes the new birth of the
soul, and thus supplies the key to the whole creed, or in its
own words gives " The Entrance on Light in One Chapter,"
a passage occurs which appears to refer to this dawning of
another age. " The twenty-four are passing," it says,
" until the sixth. He remains in the Gate." In the sixth
hour that is to say, reckoning from midnight (as Professor
Renouf has shown to have been the custom), the march of
the stars is stayed, and the sun enters the- Gate of a new
cycle ; in the same way as for the regenerate soul the night
is past, and he enters the Gate of Everlasting Day.
That the date in question was the true epoch of the
institution of the Kalendar, to which all astronomical
allusions are to be referred whether in the Ritual or in the
Pyramid of Light, is confirmed by a simple explanation
which is thus afforded of a very marked peculiarity (and
apparent anomaly) in its use . As is well known, the " node "
or point where the earth at Equinox cuts the plane of the
Equator and consequently the point of solstice (which is
always 9o° from that of Equinox), is not invariable, but
year after year falls a little short of (or precedes) its previous
II0
THE MYSTERY OF THE HEAVENS
position, so as to shift round in a direction opposite to the
earth's revolution . In other words, this motion, which
affects the entire orbit and which we find more especially
illustrated by the position and design of one famous temple,
is the extremely slow revolution performed by the axis of the
celestial sphere around the axis of the Ecliptic in about
26,ooo years, which is called the cycle of precession ., That
this cycle was familiar to the astronomers of early Egypt,$ is,
I think, sufficiently clear from the following solution
afforded by it of the anomaly mentioned at the beginning of
the previous paragraph, which Dr . Brugsch, the eminent
authority on the hieroglyphic kalendar, has plainly stated,
but without attempting to explain . Dr. Brugsch has drawn
attention to the circumstance that during the later dynasties,
a double series of months was employed, wherein, for
instance, " The First of Thoth," that is, the first day of the
first month, is given in the time of Thothmes III (about
1600 B.c.) both on the day corresponding to our July loth,
and on August 27th, and similarly with the rest .
Suppose now that in addition to the current date of the
solstice the archaic date was also preserved-a suggestion
entirely in agreement with Egyptian custom and mode of
thought-that is to say, that a record was kept of the day of
the Grand Epoch on which the earth arrived at the point in
her orbit which she had reached when the kalendar was
defined, then the peculiarity could be explained . For since
the date of Equinox, and therefore of course of solstice, falls
a little earlier relatively to the orbit every year, the archaic
date will fall a little later . And as in twenty-six thousand
years its traverses the circle of the year, and falls again on the
anniversary ; in two thousand six hundred and fifty years
the archaic date would be thirty-seven or thirty-eight days
later ; so that if the kalendar were founded at the epoch
1 The actual rate at which precession takes place is about 5o seconds per
annum.
2 See note K, p. 176.
III
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
assigned, the difference between the current and the archaic
date in the days of Thothmes III would just correspond to
the difference which we find . Again, at the commencement
of the third Sothiac cycle, in 1322 B.c., the archaic date
would be later still, on August the 29th or 3oth . And this
appears to have been adopted in the later times as the fixed
archaic date, without further variation in the Alexandrine
Kalendar.
By a similar reference to the archaic date, we may throw
some light on the peculiar sanctity attaching to certain days
of the month, for which it is otherwise difficult to account.
For instance, in the Kalendars of the third Sothiac cycle, the
fifteenth and the sixth of the month appear to be peculiarly
sacred ; and in the Turin Papyrus of The Book of the Dead
(the allusions in which would probably not go back so far
as the first cycle, but might refer either to the second or
third), command is given no less than three times that the
most important festival of the year, the Birthday of Osiris,
should be celebrated on the fifteenth of the month . But the
Birthday of Osiris was, as we have seen, the first festival of
the New Year, and what connection could such a day have
with any particular day of any month whatsoever ? A very
close connection if the archaic day is to be taken into con-
sideration. At the commencement of the second Sothiac
cycle the archaic date of Osiris' Birthday would fall
twenty or twenty-one days later than at the foundation of
the kalendar ; and, remembering the five days of the sacred
interval, we reach the fifteenth day of the first month ;
while a similar calculation, allowing in all forty-one days,
brings us in the third Sothiac cycle to the sixth of the
succeeding month . For a similar reason another great festival,
that of the Bark of Ra, is ordered to be celebrated on the
Birthday of Osiris, since at the foundation of the Kalendar
that day coincided with the rising of the sacred Nile, the
waters of which represent new life .
Hence, in order to preserve a true record of time, it is
112
THE MYSTERY OF THE HEAVENS
necessary to note the motion of the earth with reference to
four, and only four, different standards ; that is to say, in
regard to the stars, to the moon, to the sun and to Equinox,
the other relative motions of the earth having no perceptible
effect upon our reckoning of time . All these standards, with
their respective measures and harmonies, were known, as
we have seen, to the Egyptians ; and this accounts for the
circumstance that Dr . Brugsch has remarked, that at a very
early date the Kalendar of Egypt was kept upon four dif-
ferent reckonings. All these standards also, each with its
spiritual significance corresponding with the Ritual, we
have seen expressed in the masonry of the Great Pyramid .
For to the architect of the Egyptian Light, there was no
celestial truth which was not manifested in the motions of
the celestial orbs ; nor was there any chamber among the
Hidden Places of the Great House which did not secretly
reflect the path of the just in the mystery of the heavens .
IQ
H
CHAPTER VII
THE MYSTERY OF THE DEPTHS
LIGHT is the first principle of created life . There is no
growth without light . Colour, perfume, savour, every
varied object of sense vanishes if light be absent . Each
beam is a separate celestial gift, direct from the hand of the
Creator ; as in the bas-relief on the tomb at Thebes, dis-
covered by Mr. Villiers Stuart, where the diverging rays
form a pyramid of light, and to each ray is attached a hand
of blessing.
Universal, too, as is the necessity for light in living
nature, equally extended is its manifestation in the form of
motion. Wherever life exists, in man or bird, or beast or
fish, there also is that power which is denied to inanimate
matter-the power to originate motion . To live and move
and have our being are three states inseparably connected
with each other. Mathematician and poet alike acknow-
ledge the universality of motion in living form . " Motion,
fount of beauty," exclaims Pindar in one of his loftiest odes .
" All nature is in motion," says Professor Price in his lucid
treatise on infinitesimals . So, too, the unfailing harmonies
of the heavenly bodies express themselves in the periods of
their orbits. And through the correlations of those luminous
circuits, as through a veil of glory, the correlations of interior
truth were shadowed forth by the Egyptian " Mystery-
Teachers of the Depths ." Depth beyond Depth, space
beyond space, height beyond height, from the company of
the planets around our sun, to where the " clusters of count-
less stars are but a faint nebulous gleam," Light is every-
11 4
THE MYSTERY OF THE DEPTHS
where the Omnipotent Creator, the laws of Light the
expression of infallible truth .1
But how to seize with material grasp the intellectual
relations of the most ethereal element known to man ? How
imprison in stable form the flashes of the fiery spark as it
darts with inconceivable speed from space to furthest
space ? How render palpable to the direct touch the distant
courses of those flying orbs ? In a word, how shall we build
up the manifestation of Light, and find masonic expressions
for the Mystery of the Depths ? Light itself gives us a reply .
For if, as in the bas-relief at Thebes, the diverging flood of
rays be represented as it pours down at noon on the day of
summer solstice, the opening day of the Egyptian year, we
shall have one face of the Pyramid of Light . Suppose now
that a quadrangular pyramid be erected with four such sides
facing respectively the cardinal points of the heavens. Then
since each revolution of the earth is completed by one
quarter of a rotation later than the preceding, it follows that
every fourth or grand year the same face will be turned to-
wards the sun when the revolution of the earth is accom-
plished ; and thus the Egyptian Grand Cycle (of four years)
will be masonically expressed . Just such a form is found in
the quadrangular Pyramid of Light, its sides so oriented as
to have originally faced the cardinal points, and its summit
so truncated as to permit the sun on one day in the year to
rest upon it "with all its rays," so that the building
" devours its own shadow."
The general form determined, what proportions shall the
dimensions assume, or in other words, at what angle shall
I Marsham Adams points out that in the same way Moses, who never
claims for himself direct revelation in regard to any matter contained in
Genesis (though in subsequent books that claim is repeated again and again),
and whose fame as an expert in Egyptian science was quoted hundreds of
years after his death by St . Stephen in his address to his countrymen, com-
mences his exposition of the Mystery of the Depths by the initiation of Light
and Motion. " The Spirit of God moved upon the face of the deep . And
God said, Let there be Light ; and there was Light."
'' 5
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
the sides converge towards the invisible vertex ? The earth
in her orbit gives reply. For as that planet moves around the
sun in an (approximately) circular path, while each ray
travels towards it in a direct line, the relation between the
illuminating force and the illuminated body may be ex-
pressed by the relation between the radius and the circum-
ference of a circle. But this relation is such that the altitude
of a pyramid when bearing the same ratio to its base-
circuit subtends an angle of about s I ° 5o' . And that is the
Angle of Elevation of the Great Pyramid . Nor is this most
important, and indeed dominating, measure due to accident ;
since the angle in question is the most marked, and almost
the only feature, which the lesser and later pyramids share
with the Pyramid of Light, so that it forms the masonic
sign whereby the inferior buildings tacitly asserted their
kinship with the Great House.
Although, however, these general aspects of the radiance
suffice to determine the general aspect of the building, yet
a closer investigation of the light will disclose a more
intimate relation. For since our atmosphere may be con-
ceived as divided into successive layers of air, increasing in
density as they approach the earth, each ray as it travels will
be slightly deflected or refracted as it passes from a finer to a
denser ring, the refraction being greatest when the body is
on the horizon, and imperceptible when it is near the
zenith. Conversely, if on any given day the position of the
sun be observed at equal intervals from rising to noon and
from noon to sunset, the apparent place of the sun will,
owing to refraction, be slightly different from its true
position at any observation ; and a diagram representing
their mutual relations will offer the appearance of a house
having many stories, with a small platform at the summit,
since near the zenith the true and apparent positions are
i16
THE MYSTERY OF THE DEPTHS
identical (and the only motion is that of transit)-that is to
say, we shall have the appearance of the Great Pyramid
when the casing-stones are removed.
If, then, on the first day of the (Egyptian) new year-
when the sun is about fourteen hours visible above the
horizon at Memphis-an observation be taken every two
minutes (four observations for the period occupied by any
ray in reaching the earth from the sun) there will be
altogether about four hundred and forty observations,
making two hundred and twenty courses of ascent and
descent, of which a certain number will be wanting at the
top since at the zenith there is no refraction . But this is
precisely the case in the Pyramid of Light ; the number of
existing courses being about two hundred, and the number
required to complete it being reckoned at about twenty
more . Further, since the moon in every two minutes of
time completes a (circular) minute of her circuit relatively
to the sun, and since at the commencement of every Sothiac
Cycle she commences a new lunation and comes (invisibly)
to the meridian at the same time with the sun at noon, it
follows that these unit-intervals of observation correspond
with the minute-intervals of her motion ; and each course of
the Great Pyramid corresponds to the change in the altitude
of the sun for one circular minute of the moon's position
relatively to that body.
The true and apparent forms of the Great Pyramid being
thus determined by the true and apparent motions of light,
we have now to inquire with what scale we are to build up
the chambers of the house . The rolling earth once more
suggests the standard. The cosmic unit of space-the
Sceptre of Anup, the Guide of the Horizon of Heaven-
must be clearly defined, and incapable of confusion ; it must
be self-evolved, and yet immutable ; it must be within man's
power to compass, but not within his grasp to alter . Now
these conditions are fulfilled by one line, and one only
known to man, the polar axis of the earth-the line, that is
'' 7
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
to say, about which takes place the earth's daily rotation,
while itself performs the annual circuit of the sun . Let that
line be carried far as the eye can follow or thought can
reach, the depths through which it pierces remain for
us ever at rest . That is the line which directs the axis of the
Sacred Horizon of the Point of Equinox, and which
indicated to the mind of Egypt the entrance path for the
holy departed as they passed from the created to the
Uncreated Light. A beautiful allusion is made in the
Ritual to the illuminative action of the sun in reference to
this double motion of the axis, as the earth, the vessel of
God, performs her daily and annual course in the heavens.
For we read there how the holy departed " has appeared
in the Bark of Ra in the course of every day " ; and how
Thoth, the Divine Wisdom, clothes the spirits of the
justified a million times in a garment of true linen " ; of
that substance, that is to say, which by its purity and
brilliance reminds us of the mantle woven out of rays of
light wherewith the sun enwraps the earth afresh each day
she rotates before him, just as the soul of man is invested
with new radiance each time that he turns to the presence
of his Creator.
How, then, shall we avail ourselves of this mighty
measure, this rule of light and standard of space ? This time
the building itself answers through its familiar title . Accord-
ing to Brugsch, the term Pir-am-us in Egyptian signifies
EDGE ; and on examining the base-circuit of the building,
we find it to be composed of casing-stones with a bevelled
horizontal edge, so exquisitely finished that according to
Flinders Petrie, it is equal " to the finest work of the
optician." On the occasion of the visit of the Empress
Eug6nie to Egypt, in 18 69, one of these casing-stones was
measured in situ by Mr. W. Dixon, and found to contain
just z5•o25 British inches. But the relation of this length
to the polar radius (or semi-axis) of the earth is of the very
last importance in universal measurement . Several years
II 8
THE MYSTERY OF THE DEPTHS
ago Sir John Herschel pointed out that our inch is contained
in the earth's polar radius just 250,250,000 times ; so that
if that unit be increased by its thousandth part (less than the
fineness of the finest hair) it will be contained in the polar
radius just two hundred and fifty million times . Since
therefore this stone contains twenty-five inches so increased,
it measures the earth's polar radius exactly ten million
times ; and as the Egyptians were certainly familiar with the
decimal system, expressing units, tens, hundreds, thousands
and millions by distinct hieroglyphs, this stone in the base
circuit of the Great House supplies a simple masonic unit
of cosmic length, a standard of universal measurement .
That this length was a standard measure among the
builders of the early dynasties is shown by the discovery of
Flinders Petrie, who found at Gizeh, in the neighbourhood
of the pyramids, two specimens of twenty-five inches
(within a small decimal), belonging to the time of Khufu .
Were this ratio an isolated instance, some question might
not unnaturally arise as to the accidental nature of the con-
nection ; but the intention of the architect is strongly con-
firmed by the kindred discovery due to Flinders Petrie.
That acute observer has pointed out that the length of the
raised pavement was a simple measure (one-twentieth) of a
geographical mile . And since a geographical mile is a
measure of the earth's circumference at the Equator, a
knowledge of it implies a knowledge of the measurement of
the polar radius.
Striking, however, as is the ratio which this stone bears
to the cosmic standard, its relation to the Pyramidal Edge,
of which it forms a part, is no less prolific of universal
1 Petrie maintains this twenty-five-inch cubit to be " evidently an Egyptian
edition of the royal twenty-five-inch cubit of Persia." But, as Marsham
Adams says, why a Persian cubit should be employed at Gizeh, or what we
know of Persia some thousands of years before the time of Darius, he does not
tell us. It is difficult to see why he might not with equal reason pronounce
the Capitol of Romulus to be " evidently an Italian edition of the Capitol at
Washington."
1 1 9
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
results. For taking as the length of that base-line, the average
of the results obtained by the principal surveys' executed
since the great Napoleon opened the dull eyes of Europe to
the inexhaustible treasures of ancient Egypt, we find that
the casing-stone is contained in the line so measured just
26x•2 5 times, and consequently in the entire circuit
(4 X 365) 1461 times. Hence, as the form suggests the
Grand Cycle, so does the measure of the base-circuit ; the
number of times the cosmic unit is repeated in that circuit,
defining the number of days in the Grand Cycle, and
consequently also the number of the solar years in the cycle
of Sothis.
It seems, therefore, not unreasonable to conceive that
before the casing-stones finally shut up the secret, the rela-
tions of the sun and moon to the position of Sothis and of the
Pole Star should have been correlated with the courses of
the Pyramid in the manner above described ; and thus a
starting-point for all the motions of the earth, whether in
relation to the moon, the sun, the equinox or the stars, have
been registered unalterably in the masonic light.
To measure the motions of the earth, however, is the
' These results are as follows, expressed in our inches
French Commission .. . 9,163
Colonel Howard Vyse 9,t68
Piazzi Smyth . . . . . . 9,110
Royal Engineers, ist Survey .. . 9J30
Royal Engineers, 2nd Survey .. . 9,T40
Flinders Petrie 9,126
Mean 9,140
This length differs, therefore, from that obtained by Flinders Petrie . But,
as for some reason, which is not very clear, Petrie allows no less than 41
inches for each socket to " play," a most extraordinary condition, surely, in
the case of workmanship " equal to the finest work of the optician," it is
difficult to place our usual reliance on his accuracy . The average here taken,
it will be observed, of the whole results coincides precisely with one of the
measurements, and also with the mean of the greatest and least.
1 2 0
THE MYSTERY OF THE DEPTHS
commencement, but only the commencement, of the
universal scale. That which we need for the Mystery of the
Depths is nothing less than the span of solar or measurable
space. In other words, we require to define the extreme
limits on either hand within which no fount of original light
is found except our own sun, since the distances of the stars
are beyond accurate measurement . But the distance of the
limiting point of solar or measurable space, or rather the
radius of the limiting horizon (since the distance will be the
same in every direction) is about twenty-five hundred
million times the length of the earth's polar axis ; so that
that axis is contained in the radius of measurable space two
hundred and fifty times as often as itself contains the edge
of the casing-stone . Now if that casing-stone be divided into
twenty-five equal parts, each of such parts will, as we have
seen, contain our own inch increased by its thousandth part .
This unit, therefore, which we may call the polar inch,
measures not only the axis of the earth, but of the depths of
solar or measurable space, being contained in the former
two hundred and fifty million times, and in the latter two
hundred and fifty thousand billion times . But in that
ancient chapter of the Rituals which claims to have been
revealed in the days of the Fourth Dynasty,2 we read that the
Creator, when revealing Himself to the new-born soul as the
Measurer of space, employs this very ratio as standard .
" ` I who know the Depths' is my Name," so runs the text
of this sublime chapter ; " I make the cycles of the shining
millions of years ; and billions are My measurement."a
That the inch, whether in our own or any other form, was
1 lxiv.
z In the rubric to this chapter as found in the Papyrus of Mes-em-neter, we
are informed that the chapter was discovered " in the foundations of the
shrine of the divine Hennu boat " by the chief mason in the time of Semti-
Hesep-ti, i.e., about 4266 B.C. (Budge).
8 Of this version Marsham Adams says : In the original : Ari Kherti
Khuu aha pu tefnut pu krastuf. The translation above given differs slightly
both from the version of Birch and that of Pierret ."
1 2 1
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
not an open and recognised Egyptian measure there can be
little doubt. But the mention of these cycles of the
shining years suggests a principle of singular beauty,
involving the use of that polar unit as the secret key to the
architectural standards of ancient Egypt . Among the many
valuable results due to the industry of Flinders Petrie is a
collection of cubits of various lengths, employed by the
architects of the Fourth and Eleventh Dynasties . These
architectural units are very numerous, and, unless referred
to cosmic principles, quite miscellaneous, having no
apparent co-ordination either among themselves or with
anything else. When, however, taking as our unit the polar
inch,' we compare them with the measures of light, as
expressed in the shining circuits and radii of the celestial
periods-remembering always that the radii and semi-radii
of the cycles of years are both consonant with the angular
construction of the Pyramid and are secretly involved in the
analogy of Illumination-we find a most remarkable
correspondence in measure after measure, not absolute
indeed, but different only by decimals of an inch .
Take, for example, the number of polar inches into which
the casing-stone is divided, when considered as a measure of
space, namely twenty-five ; a close approximation to which
is found in two specimense belonging to the Fourth Dynasty,
which were discovered at Gizeh-that is to say, which were
employed in the neighbourhood of the Great Pyramid about
the time of its erection . Again, taking as unit the semi-
radius of the cycle of Equinox, the radius of which is about
4,122 years, and expressing an inch to a century, the half
of it gives as the cubit of 20 . 6 inches ; and this measure is
1 As Marsham Adams says, this inch is, of course, the same as that adopted
by Piazzi Smyth, and called by him the " Pyramid Inch " ; but he has so
inextricably associated that name with views directly opposed to Egyptological
research, that I prefer to use an expression which denotes an undoubted
relation, first pointed out by Sir John Herschel .
s See p. 520, ante, and note i .
1 2 2
THE MYSTERY OF THE DEPTHS
the more common form of the Egyptian cubit, the standard
employed for the sacred " Tat," or Nilometer, which
measured the waters of life, the symbol regarded as the
highest expression of sanctity, and the final ornament
placed upon the holy dead . From the moon also we (approxi-
mately) obtain two standards of Egyptian measure . For the
number of days in a lunar month gives us closely, at an inch
for a day, the 2 9 . 3-inch cubit of the Fourth Dynasty. And, at
an inch for a year, the number of years (about 18 . 6) in the
cycle of the lunar nodes-(that is, the interval which elapses
between two successive crossings of the equinoctial plane
by the moon at precisely the same point of her orbit)-
yields (very nearly) the 18 .7-inch cubit of the Twelfth
Dynasty. And, once more, since the orbit of the earth is not
strictly a circle but an ellipse with the sun in one focus, there
will always be a point in the orbit which will be in " peri-
helion," that is, nearer the sun than any other. And this
point is not stationary, but makes a circuit of the earth's
orbit in about 114,000 years ; whereof the half-circuit gives
us the fifty-seven-inch cubit of the Eleventh Dynasty (at an
inch to ten thousand years), and the quarter radius, the
forty-five-inch cubit of the Fourth Dynasty (at an inch to a
thousand years). It would seem, therefore, that a table of
the cubits employed by the architects of those early times
would represent a general system of cosmic measures, the
scale being marked -off upon the axis of the earth, the sole
standard of immutable space, and the ratios of the different
cubits being proportional to the immutable time-periods of
the heavenly bodies . And thus, when the film is brushed
away, which the dust of ages has cast over these relics of
antique science, .their aspect remains no longer lifeless and
repulsive ; but we recognise in them the glowing insignia of
universal truth, the gems from the azure depths, sparkling
with the lustre of intrinsic light.
No sooner do we apply this key to the Book of the Master,
than a series of concealed significations begin to unclose .
1 2 3
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
The famous Uraeus, or symbol of the snake-connected in
some not very definite manner with solar phenomena-has
always been intimately associated with the royalty of
Egypt. But it appears to have escaped attention that in the
Ritual are to be found several serpentine forms of various
lengths, and-what is most striking in itself, but easily
explained by the results already attained-that when those
several lengths are expressed in inches, they prove to be
proportional to the measures of the various serpentine
curves traced by the motion of the earth and moon . For
instance, in Chapter cxxx, we read of " a snake seventy
cubits in his coil." But taking the well-known cubit of
20 . 6 inches and repeating it seventy times, we obtain one
thousand four hundred and forty-two inches ; which is
proportional (within the seven-hundredth part) to the
number of minutes of time (24 x 6o) in the average daily
rotation of the Equator or coil of the snake ; so that it
expresses our own division of the heavens into twenty-four
hour-circles, each divided again into sixty equal parts or
minutes of time ; both of which measures, we have already
seen, were familiar to the Egyptians. Moreover, the
number of the sun's rotations about his own axis is, approxi-
mately, one hundred and forty-four in a period of ten years,
so that the snake expresses an axial motion common to both
the sun and its satellite ; and appears, therefore, to be " the
chief Urxus, gleaming and guiding millions of years," of
which we read in Chapter xxxiv. On the other hand, in
another passage of the chapter previously mentioned, an
extent of seven cubits gives the length-not of the snake's
coil but-of his back : and this length (one hundred and
forty-four inches) just gives the back of the tropical snake,
or spiral, that is, the distance of the sun at solstice from the
Equator, at that epoch about twenty-four degrees, or one
hundred and forty-four decades of circular minutes . Other
examples of a more complex character might be adduced,
but these must be sufficient to show that in the inch we
1 2 4
THE MYSTERY OF THE DEPTHS
possess a clue to the secret significance of numerous
symbols ; and that for that very reason it was not openly set
forth as the standard, but its place was supplied by the cubit,
which betrays no meaning except to one already so far
initiated in the Mysteries of the Depths .
Turning now to the Pyramid of Light, to the Secret
House itself, to the Master of which the Secret Papyrus
belonged, we find the same principle conspicuous throughout
the building ; the lengths of its various passages and
chambers, when expressed in polar inches, being apparently
proportional to the radii (or semi-radii) of the celestial
periods corresponding respectively to the stages in the
progress of the departed . And so strongly marked is the
prevalence of this principle, that while a mere knowledge
of the measures, however exact, suggests nothing of the
spiritual meaning, the insight which we have already
attained into the co-ordination of the building with the
Ritual enables us to determine for ourselves the dimensions
of many of the . parts. For throughout the teaching of
Egypt progress in Light is effected by increased instruction
and experience of Truth ; and in the Wisdom of that
ancient country, the measures of Truth were the years of the
Most High.
At the very point of entrance, indicating the sacred
horizon of the Pole Star (as the hieroglyph of the star sig-
nifies the invisible world), we find that a consideration of
the particular position occupied by the star, when in con-
junction, so to speak, with the Pyramid, widens andelevates
our view from an earthly to a celestial plane. For to a
dweller on our globe the great plane of reference is the
plane passing through the celestial poles and containing the
horizon of the point of Equinox ; yet when we proceed to
regard our companion orbs, circling around the same
parent luminary, and when we take into account the
influence which those members of the same luminous family
exert upon each other, we are compelled to recognise what
1 2 5
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
is called the Invariable Plane of the Planetary System, the
plane, that is to say, about which, as La Place demonstrates,
certain highly important relations between the masses and
the motions of the planets are always fulfilled . Now this
plane has never a greater inclination than about 3°6' to the
apparent ecliptic, that is to the plane of the orbit of the
earth. But that arc (3°6') measures within a few minutes the
distance of the pole from the Pole Star when in conjunction,
so to speak, with the Great Pyramid . When, therefore, the
Pole Star shines down the entrance passage, its position in
regard to the pole (due allowance being made for correc-
tions), defines the limiting position of the invariable plane
to the plane of the orbit .
Similarly in regard to the inconceivably slow variation ,
in the inclination of the axis to the ecliptic, a variation which
while never exceeding z2° on either side, requires no less
than thirty thousand years to accomplish . And from this
majestic depression and elevation of the polar axis in its
course around the sun-the inexpressibly stately obeisance
made by the sceptre of Anup before the throne of Ra-
we may determine relatively to each other the inclinations of
the interior passages. The difference between the limits
of the solstices (calculated at about 2°22') gives the dif-
ference between the inclination of the roof and of the floor-
line of the Grand Gallery, or Chamber of the Orbit, while
the inclination of that roof to the level passage leading to the
Lunar Chamber of New Birth (28°3o'), defines, as we have
already seen, the limiting inclination of the moon to the
Equator. The variation during one Sothiac cycle corre-
sponds with the difference between the floor-lines of the
upper and lower galleries . And if we may place the com-
pletion of the building at 3732 B .C. (only a generation
earlier than the estimate of Dr . Brugsch, which is not
designed to be exact), then, since it occupies thirty years
1 See the table and memoir published by the Smithsonian Institute of
Washington. W. M. A.
1 2 6
THE MYSTERY OF THE DEPTHS
building, the number of years from the foundation of the
Kalendar to the foundation of the Pyramid will be about
four hundred and eighty-two ; that is, it will correspond
with the number of inches between the entrance and the
scored line which points to the foundation ; while the
interval between the foundation of the Kalendar and the
co-ordination of the Pyramid with the Pole Star (namely
about eight hundred years), is indicated by the number of
inches from the scored line to the Hidden Lintel . The
difference during the inclination (about 4'), corresponds
closely with the difference between the inclinations of the
Lower Ascending Gallery and the Passage of the Pole Star ;
so that to such as understand the meaning of that inclination,
the periods of the star's co-ordination with the entrance
would. be foreknown. If this were the principle employed-
and considering the difficulty of obtaining exact measure-
ments, the points of correspondence are surprisingly close-
none could understand the _ relation of the star to the
building without first understanding the masonic relation
embodied in the edifice, between the standard of space, as
represented in the entrance passage, and the solar throne at
the head of the Grand Gallery or Chamber of the Orbit .
Nor could anyone be instructed in that secret by the Master
without acquiring masonic evidence of its truth, in the
Path of the Horizon of Heaven, and its orientation with the
hidden interior-the beginning and the ending of the
Ritual of Light.
Penetrating now to the innermost recesses of the Hidden
Places, let us review the celestial significance which we have
attached to the various chambers, and (remembering always
that we are dealing with approximations) let us note the
proportion of their measures to the corresponding celestial
periods ; the celestial unit varying in each case according to
the nature of the celestial cycle (and demanding in each case,
therefore, a knowledge of the connection of the Ritual with
the particular chamber) ; while the masonic unit throughout
1 2 7
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
is the polar inch, the twenty-fifth part of the Pir-am-us, or
edge of the base-circuit casing-stone, the twenty-fifth ten-
millionth part of the polar radius of the earth, and the
twenty-fifth thousandth-billionth part of the radius of solar
space. " For millions and billions are the measure of
things ."
Commencing with the highest and most secret source of
life and light, the Eternal and Self-Begotten Energy of the
Hidden God, we find it illustrated in the never-ceasing
rotation of the sun about its own axis, the energy of which
we know not the origin, and to which we attribute the birth
of the planets.' Of such rotations about two thousand five
hundred and twenty-five are performed by the sun while the
earth is performing one thousand similar rotations, and that
number gives the number of polar inches in the height of
the extreme point of the huge granite triangle which domin-
ates the secret places of the interior.2 Descending thence to
the King's Chamber, where the birth of the Eternal Day is
celebrated in the open tomb of Osiris, we have recourse to
the measure of light, not in its interior energy, but in its
emission ; and we find that the cubit proportional to the
radius of the cycle of equal Light and Darkness (20. 6
inches) is a measure of that chamber, as it is also of the
Chamber of the New Birth of the Soul .
As we proceed towards the outer portion, the manifesta-
tion of the splendour defines the proportions of the Chamber
of the Orbit, the Upper Hall of Truth, where so many lunar
and solar phenomena have already been noticed . At the
head of that chamber is the great throne, " the stone of God,"
to use the expression of the Ritual, surrounded on every side
by masonified radiance. The seat of that throne (about
1 It must be remembered that astronomical theory has developed very
considerably since 1895, when these lines were written.
2 This is, as Marsham Adams points out, the number given in British
inches. He adds that the correction for their conversion into polar inches will
about be counterbalanced by the thickness of the granite apex .
1 2 8
THE MYSTERY OF THE DEPTHS
61 . 3 inches) measures the number of times the radius of the
earth is contained in the radius
of the orbit of the moon ;
while its height is proportioned
to the number of decades
in the orbit of the Egyptian
year, the five divine birthdays
being expressed in the Cham-
ber of New Birth immediately
beneath. Above that throne,
at the higher end of the
chamber, rises the seven-
pointed arch of the planetary
heavens, its boundary lines
defining the flaming belt of the
zodiac. And from its foot
runs downwards the floor-line
ascended by the Illuminate,
and measured by the radius of
the cycle of perihelion, or
Cycle of Nearest Approach,
formed by " the Assembly of
Ministers of Truth," but along
the midst of which none might
pass save the Illuminate alone.
And if we may estimate the
distance of Sothis (whose
chamber lies beyond) to be
1, 374,oooinsteadof 1, 3'75,000
times the distance of the sun,
the number of thousands of
hours occupied by light in
reaching us from that star
(between 1,8 81 and 1,8 82),will
be defined by the number of
polar inches in the continuous THRONE IN LUMINOUS HALL OF TRUTH
129
I
THE C0 STONE OF GOD."
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
floor-line of the Grand Gallery (1,881-2) ascended by the
Illuminate before passing to Sothis ; while the integral years
(21) in the same period gives the number of the Gates of
Aahlu corresponding to the (21) Stages of Judgment traversed
by him in ascending the same Chamber of the Splendour.
As we descend yet further towards the outer world, the
Chamber of the Shadow, where Truth is manifested in
darkness, with its Seven Halls of Death leading upwards
from the Hidden Lintel, and its final projection into the
Place of Light (1,561 inches), is measured by the number of
lunations in seven cycles of eclipse (7 X 223 = 1,561).
And finally, as the Horizon of the Point of Equinox deter-
mines the entrance for the departed to the path of light ; so
does the radius of the equinoctial cycle (about 4,122 years)
determine the descent of the entrance passage (about 4,122
polar inches) on the side of the west, where " the sun sets
from the land of life ."
With this brief survey' of the celestial periods and their
masonic analogues, we take up once more the Book of the
Master, and approach the House of the Hidden Places,
wherein are concealed the Mystery of the Heavens and the
Mystery of the Depths . In every standard, every unit, angle,
ratio and multiple employed by the great Architect of the
Masonic Light, we have seen reflected the proportions of
the house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens, the
house which the divine Horus built for his father Osiris ;
the " House of the Great God," to which, as the papyrus of
Amen-Hotep tells us, Thoth, the Eternal Wisdom, con-
ducts the Illuminate . And as we gaze around in silent
contemplation, from every corner of the universe the pro-
found words of the Ritual come echoing back to us
" Millions and billions are my measurements . ` I who know
the Depths' is my name."
' See note L, p. 177-
1 30
CHAPTER VIII
THE INITIATION OF THE POSTULANT
As the created light is the primary force manifested in the
system of creation, so also is the Uncreate, or Self-Begotten
Light (Kheper-Ra) the prime mover and creator whether
of the visible or of the unseen universe . " Light Great
Creator is his Name," we read in one of the chapters , added
to the Egyptian Ritual at the Saite recension . And again in
another ancient papyrus : " The God of the Universe is in
the light above the firmament ; and His symbols are upon
the earth." Now it was with that Divine Light, immortal,
invisible, intolerable to mortal eye, the Light which none
may look upon in the flesh and live, that in the ancient
creed of Egypt, as in that of Christendom, the holy dead was
to be at last united, person with person, in an indissoluble
bond. No language less universal than that of faith can
enable us to express that sublime belief . For in no other
creed do we find that man never loses his individuality,
which yet becomes united personally with the Deity in so
intimate a union, that in the Ritual the Osiris-soul can with
difficulty be distinguished from the Osiris-Godhead. " The
sun is worshipping thy face," says Osiris, in the . Ritual, to
the soul new-born into the divine existence ; that is to say,
the very splendour of creation, the source oflight and life to
the visible world, bows down in worship before him who has
become a participator in the divinity of its creator. " He is
I, I am he," the soul responds, almost in the actual words of
the Gospel.
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
Long and manifold was the process whereby, in the
teaching of Egypt, the human nature became united with the
divine-a union effected, through the god-man Osiris, not
as in the gross and distorted myths of the classic nations,
by the conversion of the Godhead into flesh, but by the
interior taking of the manhood into God . Without and
within the transformation was complete . The soul, instantly
illumined by the fulness of the Godhead, became forthwith
capable of corresponding with the divine Energy . The
senses, restored to incorruption, were gradually fashioned
into instruments capable of expressing the soul's assimilation
to that condition of infinite power, for which the bounds of
space and time exist not, but past and future alike stand
open in an endless present-that transcendent freedom,
wherein Act is coincident with Will and Will commensurate
with Thought.
In order, then, that the senses may be so quickened and
irradiated as to perceive the action of the creative mind in the
exterior universe, that progress must be made by the
departed person which, while still unreleased from subjec-
tion to the senses, the student of science makes dimly
through the intellect. For whoever would understand the
framework of the heavens, the structure of man's sacred
dwelling-place, must commence by tracing out the horizon
of the point of Equinox, which equally divides the light from
the darkness, the horizon marked by the star which indicates
the pole, and must apprehend how the axis of the earth is
for man the prime measure of space and the standard rule of
the Depths. If he would learn the secret of living form, the
ocean will be his teacher, as he passes from shore to pro,
foundest depths and fathoms the secret places of the teeming
waters. The measure of the celestial orbits will be revealed
to him by the moon, as from that companion orb he watches
the rotation and the revolution of our planet . To understand
not merely the motion but the evolution of our globe, he must
dare the place of the earth's central fire, undismayed by the
1 32
THE INITIATION OF THE POSTULANT
cavernous gloom of the lurid abysses . And there, gazing
backwards for uncounted ages, he will trace, amid convul-
sions and cataclysms inconceivable, the " Lord of Law " and
the " Words of Order," as the huge mountain chains rise
higher and higher from the chaos to prepare the surface of
the globe for the dwelling-place of man . Before him next
stretches the shadow of the earth, that dim and vast expanse
where the majesty of the open heaven is enshrouded in
night ; and he perceives how the conjunctions of eclipse are
due to the same power as the orbits of illumination, and that
the hour of darkness is measured by the giver of light. That
shadow traversed, a yet more awful vision, the terrible
splendour of the solar fount in all its fulness, bursts upon his
sight ; and as he mounts the sevenfold ascent of the planetary
spheres, he gazes undazzled on the stupendous jets and
sprays of flame that dart thousands and myriads of miles on
high. Then, far beyond in the infinite depths of space, his
eyes, now radiant as " the eyes of Hathor," seek out the well-
beloved Sothis, the harbinger of the dawn, the portal of the
illimitable heavens, " that land of a million fortresses ." And
in anticipation of each successive stage of this amazing
progress, this reconquest of the senses to the dominion of
the reason, we may watch the course of the postulant
accepted by the " Master of the Secret," as he is inducted,
chamber by chamber, into the Hidden Places of the
Pyramid of Light of the Egyptian Ritual .
Yet though a man understand the material forces of the
universe, though he know all the phenomena of the heavens,
and the composition of the most distant suns ; nay, though
he wield with so masterly a grasp the wand of science as to
evolve at will an organic world from the atoms of the abysmal
depths, all this, in the mind of Egypt, was not sufficient,
even for initiation into the inner mysteries of divine realities .
No mere extension of the intellect, however pure and lofty ;
not even the scientific definition of absolute truth, could
suffice to open the secret things of God, any more than the
1 3 3
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
most exact acquaintance with the features and the proportions
of the Secret House would disclose their interior signification,
without the teaching of the hidden Wisdom . And hence, at
the commencement of the Ritual, in the heading of the first
chapter, before a word of doctrine has been revealed, we are
told how it proceeds from Thoth, " The Mind and Will of
God," as the inscription of Hermopolis entitles him .
Now there are three modes in which such knowledge may
be communicated to those prepared to receive it-namely
by simple instruction, by distant vision, or by personal
participation . Each of these modes is, it is evident, an
advance upon that which precedes, a preparation for that
which follows it. No man can become a participator in the
Divine Nature who has not been illuminated by its contem-
plation. No man can contemplate the Deity who has not
been instructed in Truth ; nor can any receive that initiation
until he be dead to the flesh . As, therefore, in his induction
in the Secret House the catechumen could ascend but a few
steps in the light of common day, and passes, when the disc
of the starry heaven was opened by the Master of the Secret,
into the profound darkness of the descending passage ; so,
too, when the great preparation of death had been accom-
plished, when soul and spirit had been released from the
dominion of the senses, when, by the sacred purification of
embalmment, the corruptible body had put on incorruption,
then, " on the day of the funeral," we read, the Unseen
Master commenced to instruct the catechumen in the stages
which must be undergone preparatory to his initiation . And
so closely does the masonic path in the Pyramid correspond
with the path of the departed in the Ritual, that the traveller
to-day who penetrates the recesses of the mysterious building
may follow, well-nigh step by step, the mystical progress of
the departed through the unseen world . For to the Egyptian
of old, to have become acquainted with the secret of the
House of the Hidden Places was to have mastered the
Secret of the Tomb. For him the grave had no darkness,
1 34
THE INITIATION OF THE POSTULANT
death held no terror ; for he knew beforehand the starry path,
wherein each step brought him nearer to the Creator-Light.
Ritual in hand, let us now take up our position once more
at the foot of the exterior ascent, beneath the entrance of the
star, along with the catechumen of the Secret ; and with him
let us forecast the time when, bereft of speech, of will, of life,
he will go forth, dumb and helpless, to the mouth of the
tomb, and commence the "Entrance on Light"' while
" borne to the land of the holy dead ." The very first words
are a welcome addressed by Thoth, the Eternal Wisdom,
not to Osiris himself, but to the departed, who bears, we must
remember, the title of " Osiris." " ` Hail, Osiris, strong one of
heaven,' says the Divine Wisdom, King of Eternity"-so
runs the opening chapter when divested of the enshrouding
imagery. " I am the great God near the divine vessel, I have
fought for thee, I am he among the divine beings who causes
the Osiris to be justified before his enemies, the day of
weighing the words of thy accusers . 0 Osiris ! "-so the
Teacher continues to the departed, with striking significance
when we reflect that according to Catholic teaching also, the
Divine Wisdom is the Second Person of the Blessed Trinity,
the Child of Mary-" 0 Osiris ! I am One among the
Divine Persons, the Child of the holy Mother ." And again
" O ye that cause the soul to enter perfect into the house of
Osiris, let the soul of the departed enter the house, justified
with you! May he see as ye see . Hail, openers of the roads.
Hail guides of the paths, guides of the soul established in
the house of Osiris . Open ye the roads, make ye straight the
paths of the departed triumphant with ye ." " If this scroll
be known on earth," so the chapter concludes, " write it
upon his bandages . It is that by which he cometh forth in
full splendour2 according to his desire, and goeth to his
1 Chapter i.
2 Ra Neb : " Full Splendour ." Marsham Adams points out that this
expression is usually translated " Every Day " ; but Ra undoubtedly means
" Noonday lustre," and Neb used as an adjective signifies " All."
1 35
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
house." Then, reciting chapter by chapter as we mount step
by step, we become informed, in the course of that brief but
steep ascent," of the preparation which awaits him when the
last glimpse of earth is hidden from his sight . Thus we
learn how,2 after death, the departed comes forth into the
light of immortality, even as the sun, when he sets, bursts
forth in radiance on the world which is hidden from our
view. Then, since the departed cannot yet bear the judgment
of interior justice, he is warned beforehand$ that when he has
commenced the descent he must " pass the road above the
earth," the ascending passage concealed by the Hidden
Portcullis, behind the fourth exterior course . And behind
that secret portal we descry in the vignette illustrating the
chapter, the face of the Unseen Teacher-that countenance
on which the holy dead, when Initiation has begun, shall
presently be strengthened to gaze in distant but unveiled
vision. Before that lintel can be passed, and the road above
the earth be traversed, many trials, he now learns, are waiting
for him . There are the tasks of justice to be fulfilled, if he
omitted those good works on earth, the memorials of which
may be his sponsors (" Ushabti "),' Apep, too, the dark
serpent that devours the hidden Light, as the winding
darkness of the autumnal equinox devours the light of the
year, lies in wait' to crush him in its multitudinous folds,
while he treads the path where Light and Darkness balance .
Still mounting upward, and at each step approaching nearer
the gate of the grave, the catechumen is instructed how,
when that serpent shall be passed his foes shall be repelled
and his senses restored in the fulness of eternal beauty . Then
the Gate of the West,' the aperture of the western wall, will
iii-xvIzii,iii. Marsham Adams points out that if these numbers be placed on a
print of the interior of the Pyramid, in the order here indicated, they will
show how the titles here assigned to the different parts are obtained from the
Ritual.
a iv. 4 v, Vi. a Vii. Vili, ix.
1 3 6
THE INITIATION OF THE POSTULANT
conduct him into the Well, or Chamber of the deep Waters,
as the setting sun goes down into the deep waters of the
Western Ocean and comes forth in triumph.' Passing in
silence over that which shall happen to him in the Well, the
territory of " the Lord of the West," since that knowledge
cannot yet be imparted, the Divine Teacher directs him,
when the mystery of new life is accomplished, to retrace his
steps to the Passage of the Heavenly Horizon ; and, after
entering and coming forth from2 the Chamber of Ordeal, to
approach once more the Lintel of Justice . For then, and then
only, can he set foot upon the threshold of justification, when
" the stains have been burnt from his heart " by the raging fire.e
On the fifteenth course, now high above the horizon of
the earth, our eyes (two courses higher than our feet) already
face the double-arched gateway defined by the Pole Star,
whereon the symbol of the horizon is inscribed ; the outer
entrance of the secret places, revealing the path of the
Horizon of Heaven. And similarly in Chapter xv, the
departed comes towards the land of Eternity . " May I
proceed," he continues, " as thou dost, without halt, like
thy holiness, Ra, thou who hast no master, great traverser of
waters, with whom millions of years are but a moment ."
Then, as he bends his head towards the entrance of the
Pyramid, and gazes on the dark passage now open within,
which points towards the Pole Star, " I proceed to heaven,"
he says ; " I kneel among the stars. And at the conclusion
of the chapter he learns the words to recite when his sun is
setting, and he kneels with his hand towards the land (of
the unseen), " O height of Love, thou openest the double
Gate of the Horizon ."
With these sublime words of thanksgiving, the instruction
of the catechumen comes to a close ; sufficient knowledge
having been imparted to direct his course as postulant to the
places of Initiation and Ordeal, until which point be passed
he can look no further into the mysteries . In the following
1 x, xi. 2 xii, xiii. s xiv.
I37
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
chapter," as we ascend the last course before quitting the
outer light, the divine voice is for a season hushed ; and the
Ritual silently offers three pictures for our contemplation .
On one of these the sole object presented is the sacred Scarab,
asymbol of the Eternal One, the Self-Created Being who
knows no beginning and no end . On the second is the figure
of the departed standing before Amen, the Hidden Deity .
The third contains simply a blank stele or Egyptian form of
tombstone. And that stele, as we learn from the very ancient
papyrus of Unas, the " prophet of the Pyramid," was
fashioned in the form of a false door for the pyramidal
entrance, the entrance, that is to say, which lies on the
seventeenth course of the northward face, and which is
oriented by the Northern star .
In that moment of silence the departed is alone . The
friends have left him. The sun of earth, which from his
earliest years has greeted him, is for ever hidden. The
" Gate of the Earth " is passed$ ; and the Catechumen of
Wisdom has been accepted as the Postulant of Immortality.
.Silence inconceivable to mortal ear reigns around him ;
darkness unimaginable to mortal eye lies before him. But
under the direction of Anup, the guide of souls, he passes on
beyond that Gate of the Ascent, where the divine light lifts
the disc of the tomb . " It is the region of his father Shu "
(the Light), the Ritual continues : " he effaces his sins, he
destroys his stains ." Then as the departed advances through
the darkness, and fearlessly commences the descending path,
the inner Light, unseen by mortal eye, reveals itself in vision .
He beholds the lower world,$ the territory of Initiation, the
entry of the Hidden Places, concerning which the divine
Wisdom has instructed him, the place " wherein he must
enter and from whence he must come forth," the transfor-
mations which he must desire to make, that he may be
transformed into the likeness of God, the good works which
he must do, the " throne " of the regenerate soul and the
" Fvi. 2 %vii . s Bv1i .
1 38
THE INITIATION OF THE POSTULANT
blessed company of Osiris after the body has been laid to
rest. In that same vision, too, he not only sees the entrance
of the underworld, or Rusta, and learns that it is the
northern door of the tomb of Osiris, as the sole entrance of
the pyramid is the gate of the north, but he perceives the
whole lower world, the " Angle of Fire " ; and the " Pool "
or Well of Life, with its summit opening into the Double
Hall of Truth.,
With the eighteenth chapter begins the Book of Performing
the Days, that is, the period of preparation for Initiation and
Ordeal, the due performance of which enables him to pass
" the road above the earth,"' there to receive the Crown of
Justification$ when his victory is assured . He utters a prayer
to the divine Wisdom for justification against the enemy
through the heavenly circles of the guardian spirits . As he
pursues the descending Passage of the Heavenly Horizon,
the reconstruction of the inner man, the new creation to life
immortal, slowly commences ., One by one his faculties are
reawakened to spiritual life ; his mouths is opened that he
may respond to the teaching of the divine voice ; the germ
or " egg " of the illuminative life ; his mind and name are
restoreds ; his heart' is given back to him and he knows no
more the icy numbness of the paralysed affections . Gradu-
ally the new-formed body gathers force and substance ; that
is to say, not the natural body, which never bursts its sacred
swaddling bands till awakened in the last chapter of the
Ritual, and the last chamber of the building by the Grand
Orient of the open tomb, but the spiritual or astral body
(called by the Egyptians the " Sahu "), wherewith the man,
already raised in incorruption yet still awaiting the open
manifestation of Osiris' resurrection, converses with the
Starry Spirits," the intelligences of the transcendent
spheres. With the new life commences the attack of his
spiritual enemies, now rendered palpable to his sight,8 the
' xvii. a xviii. 8 xix, xx. 4 xx. s xxii.
' xxiv, xxv. ' xxvi. 8 xxvii-xxxii.
1 3 9
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
dread inhabitants of the underworld, that wage in man the
great battle of contending light and darkness . Sloth, the
great tortoise, strives to delay his steps ; the asps put forth
their venom ; crawling reptiles infest his path . From every
side the raging passions, the devouring crocodiles which
inhabit the waters of life, rush furiously to the attack ; but
he repels all those creatures of darkness by the astral bright-
ness of his starry nature . " Back Crocodile of the South,"
he cries ; " I am Sothis "-the Star of the Eternal Dawn .
" Back! " he exclaims again to the serpent ; "thou art over-
whelmed by the waters of heaven . Depart from the place
where Ra gives renewal of life ." His foes defeated by the
divine protection,' the body raised in incorruption2 acquires
in every limb and every feature the seal of God . His hair,
from which the light glows forth in streams, is as " the hair
of Nu," the sacred Nile, glowing with the streams of life ;
his countenance, shining as the sun, is radiant as the face of
Ra ; his eyes, glorious as are the eyes of Hathor, gleam with
immortal beauty ; his fingers are as the Uraei, the sacred
serpents, the insignia of the royal power ; his feet burn with
the fire of the Creator-Spirit, Ptah ; his humanity is as the
humanity of Osiris, the incarnate God . " There is not a
member of him," says the Ritual, " which is not divine ."
Resplendently beautiful as is the astral body assumed by
the new being, he is not yet prepared for Initiation, but fresh
trials await him as he approaches the granite block which
obstructs the descending passage . His self-dominion, the
head of his glory, may be taken from him ; he may incur
the second death of defilement from the creatures of dark-
ness.$ But still, by the same guidance avoiding all these
dangers, he comes forth as the day through the Gate of the
West, to the passage which conducts him to the Well of
Life ; and as he passes that threshold, he is fed with the
celestial food which they may not eat who are partakers of
defilement.' " The enemies do not eat of my body," says
' xxxiii-xli. 2 xlii. 3 xliii-li. ' ii, Iii.
140
THE INITIATION OF THE POSTULANT
Osiris, in another part of the Ritual . Avoiding defilement
through the strength of that foods he receives the breath of
the Creator-Spirit Ptah,$ and drawing near to the Well of
Life is granted a first draught of its refreshing streams .' In
the depths of that Well, wherein, as the Sai-an-Sinsin tells
us, approach is made to Osiris, shall presently take place the
regeneration of the renewed man (or " Ka "), by reunion
with the new-born soul amid the living waters. " I give the
waters of life to every mummy," says the goddess Nout, who
presides over the waters, in the inscription on the vase of
Osur-Ur (given in Records of the Past), " to reunite it with
the soul, that it may henceforth be separated from it no more
for ever. The Resident of the West has established thy
person amid the sages of the divine Lower Region. He
giveth stability to thy body, and causeth thy soul not to
distance itself from thee. He keepeth remembrance of thy
person, and saveth thy body now and forever."
During this arduous preparation, while the departed
passes from earth in absolute weakness to wage the pro-
longed conflict of light and darkness, the imperishable soul,
restored to her native element, is born a second time in the
Chamber of the Queen of the Pyramid, as Osiris was born of
Isis, being at once her son, her maker and her spouse .
" I am Yesterday," says Osiris in the sixty-fourth chapter,
said to be,almost co-eval with the Pyramid of Light ; that is,
• I am He who was before time began," since however far
back in time a day may be, yesterday was always before it .
• I am the Dawn," he continues, 49
the Light of the Second
Birth, the Mystery of the Soul, Maker of the Gods, by whom
are fed the hidden ones of heaven ." So in the inscription on
the coffin of Ankhnes-Ra-Neferab-that is, of her " whose
life was the Sacred Heart of Ra "-we read concerning Isis
that it is she " who opens for thee the secret places by those
mighty names of thine . Thy name is Infant and Old Man,
Germ and Growth, Son of Heaven, who makes the road for
1 lii, liii. 2 liv-lviii. 8 lix-lxiii.
I4'
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
thee according to his word . Thy name is Everlasting, Self-
Begotten, the Dawn, the Day, the Evening, the Night, the
Darkness. Thy name is the Moon, the Heart of Silence, the
Lord of the Unseen World .", And on another part of the
coffin of the same holy queen, the spirits of Annu, called in
the Ritual the " secret birth-place of the gods," are invoked
as those " who preside over the sacred birth ."
With the new birth of the soul comes also the restoration
of power in its original divine image . For as in the condition
which is subject to decay the corruptible senses dominate and
inform the soul, so, according to the theosophy of Egypt, in
the condition of immortality does the illuminate spirit
inform and dominate the regenerate senses . While we are
subject to the flesh, the external universe impresses itself
continually upon the mind, dimming and imprisoning the
original " type " or image of the Deity, which feebly
struggles to express itself in the masterpieces of poet or
artist. But when the soul is born into new life, it regains that
Creative Image and is endowed with power of co-operating
with the divine Energy. For, as we learn from an exquisite
chapter in the Ritual, it is the fragrance of Innocence which
perfumes the breath of the Creative Beauty . Hence in the
masonry on the eastern wall of that most secret Chamber of
New Birth, we find expressed the fivefold dominion informed
by the soul, new-born in the sacred type of the image of the
Queen. Now thus the senses themselves become so essen-
tially divine that the departed pays worship to his own
faculties. " I have adored Touch and Taste," he says later
on ; for touch and taste are the channels whereby is com-
municated to man the food of immortality. From that
Secret Chamber, the regenerate soul comes forth glorious
as the day,2 and " opening the door,"$ once so carefully
concealed, comes forth in full radiance to the fields of Aahlu,4
the territory of illumination, to take its seatb upon the lower
1 Cf. Budge, Sarcophagus of dnchnesraneferah, xlviii, 3 86-390.
2 lxv, lxvi. s lxvii. 4 lxviii-lxxii . a 1xxv.
1 42
THE INITIATION OF THE POSTULANT
throne above the head of the Well, between the Chamber of
the Orbit and the Chamber of the Shadow. " The gates of
heaven open tome," he says ; "the gates of earth open tome .",
That solemn enthronisation being witnessed by the
postulant in the depths below, he remembers_ that the time
of ordeal draws near, and after praying, as instructed before-
hand, that his sins may be rubbed out, he celebrates the
" festival of the soul passing to his body ." But not immedi-
ately may that passage be accomplished . Raised-though he
be in incorruption, glowing as he is in every member with
the immortal light, he cannot yet bear unveiled the over-
whelming glory of the soul . Therefore, in the teaching of
Egypt, around the radiant being, which, in its regenerate
life, could assimilate itself to the glory of the Godhead, was
formed the " Khaibit," or luminous atmosphere, consisting
of a series of ethereal envelopes, at once shading and
diffusing its flaming lustre, as the earth's atmosphere shades
and diffuses the solar rays. And at each successive trans-
formations it descended nearer to the moral conditions of
humanity. From the form of the golden hawk,$ the sem-
blance of the absolute divine substance of the One Eternal,
Self-Existing Being, it passes to the " Lord of Time," the
image of the Creator, since with creation time began .
Presently it assumes the form of a lily,* the vignette in the
Ritual representing the head of Osiris enshrined in that
flower ; the Godhead manifested in the flesh coming forth
from immaculate purity. " I am the pure lily," we read,
" coming forth from the lily of light. I am the source of
illumination and the channel of the breath of immortal
beauty (the nostril of Hathor) . I bring the messages (of
heaven) ; Horus (the Eternal Son) accomplishes them ."
Later the soul passes into the form of the Urxus, " the soul
of the earth,"6 the serpentine path traced year by year upon
the earth along the path immediately irradiated by the
1 lxviii. 2 lxxVii-1xxyVii. 8 Ixxvii. * lxxxi (a).
6 lxxxvii. The Serpent Sata .
143
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
vertical sun, as the senses are irradiated by the supreme
illumination of the soul.
And finally it assumes the semblance of a crocodile,'
becoming subject, that is, to the passions of humanity . For
the human passions, being part of the nature wherein man
was originally created, are not intrinsically evil, but only
become evil when insubordinate to the soul . And thus the
crocodile, which attacked the departed before new birth, is
rendered divine in the regenerate form . Therefore it was,
that the crocodile was held in high reverence by the Egyptians,
for it spoke to them of the time when man should regain the
mastery of his passions, and when the last barrier between
himself and his glorious soul should be removed for ever.
Immeasurable as is the distance which thus separates the
two beings which make up the perfect manhood, there is no
hesitation or delay on the part of the soul . That radiant
creature in its glory has not forgotten the frail companion in
union with whom it dwelt during the days of its humiliation .
Restored to its native purity, welcomed by the Almighty to a
participation in his own energy, enthroned on its seat of
absolute dominion, yet such is the ardour with which that
soul returns the love of man, that, like the Creator Himself,
it cannot rest satisfied with its own inexhaustible bliss, but
hastens to come down from its seat of power, that it may
raise and glorify expectant humanity . And thus the vignette
shows us the winged creature flying towards the postulants
Meanwhile the latter, from below, watching its flight, prays
in an ecstasy for the reunion . " 0 bringer," he cries, " 0
runner in his hall' "-the Hall of Truth, where the throne
of the soul is erected . " Great God, let my soul go where it
desires . 0 conductors of the bark of millions of years, led
through the gateway, clearing the path of heaven and earth,
accompany ye the souls to the holy dead ."$
The prayer is granted.' Leaving its throne on high' and
' lxxxviii. 2 lgxaiX. s lxxxix. ' xci-xciii.
G An inspection of the lower portion of the Upper Hall of Truth just by
1 44
THE INITIATION OF THE POSTULANT
passing through its various transformations, the soul
descends the ladder of the Well, as in the papyrus of Ani 1
Then the divine protection is obtained' ; and amid the living
waters in the pool of the Persea, the Tree of Immortality
(as the Ritual elsewhere calls it), the earnest desire of the
postulant is fulfilled, and he is reunited with his living
soul' ; My soul is from the beginning," he says, " from
the commencement of time (reckoning of years) . The eye of
Horus (the Divine Son) made me for my soul, preparing its
substance. The darkness is before them ; the arms of
Osiris hold them . Open the path to my soul and my
shadow (Khaibit) and my spirit, to see the great God within
his sepulchre the day of the making up the souls ." If that
knowledge is possessed, the Ritual adds, he enters on Light ;
he is not detained in the lower world .
That priceless gift conceded, the postulant, though he
cannot yet participate in the divine splendour until his
ordeal be passed, yet can he behold it openly from afar, and
enter on his initiation into the sacred mysteries . Ascending,
in the strength imparted to him by the soul, the ladder of the
well, he offers a prayer to the Divine Teacher, and, " hold-
ing in his hand the Sacred Mysteries," he turns his opened
eyes successively in the three directions" which we saw
indicated by the hieroglyph of the divine Initiator Thoth .
First he gazes down " the opening where Thoth is," the
Chamber of the Shadow, now no longer closed to his view,
though not yet accessible to his person ; and he beholds the
Secret Wisdom which gives to Truth its splendour,' the
countenance of the Divine Teacher, whose voice instructed
the head of the Well (where the postulant is waiting) will disclose the Throne
of the Soul formed in the masonry by the abrupt termination of the lower
part of the floor-line, and exactly corresponding to the Throne of judgment
at the head of the'same ascent.
i A vignette of the Ladder is given in the Papyrus of Ani (second edition,
plate 22) between chapter vxxxiv and the second copy of chapter xviii . Cf.
also the vignette to chapter xcii Papyrus of Khari .
' xci. ' xciii. ' xciv. " xcv-xcvi. 6 xcv-xcvi.
145
K
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
the catechumen, and whose power answered the postulant.
Then, as his eyes grow clearer, he offers a prayer to Anup,1
the starry guide, who has led him thus far towards his heart's
desire, and, turning towards the Chamber of the New Birth,
he discerns the Bark of Ra,2 the vessel of God, foretold to
him before his entry on the path by the Divine Teacher-
the vessel which shall bear him safely across the Deep
Waters. And in the vignettes of the Ritual, we see the
vessel bearing upon it at one time a fivefold, at another time
THE FIVEFOLD THRONE
a sevenfold staircase, the fivefold dominion of the regenerate
senses, the sevenfold elevation of the illuminate intellect .
And even while he looks, the whole interior of the building
is lit with a sudden glow ; and the masonry, portraying each
portion of the sacred vessel, reveals their mystical signific-
ance, which the initiate must know before permission can
be granted to embark . Within the Inner House the vast
granite Triangle dominating the secret heights assumes for
him the form of an " Anchor," with its central axis indicated,
but not delineated, by the equality of the members, as we
0
THE ANCHOR AND THE COFFIN OF THE LORD OF EARTH
(SARKOPHAGUS AND HIGHEST CHAMBER)
saw the central mystery of the Supreme Secret, the Unity of
the Divine Substance to be indicated but not defined by the
equality of the persons in the Egyptian Trinity. And that
1 xcvii. 2 xcviii-cii.
1 46
THE INITIATION OF THE POSTULANT
" anchor " firmly fixed, not in the depths, but in the heights
above the open sarkophagus, speaks to him of Osiris, " the
Lord of the earth in his coffin " ; the vision which a while ago
he prayed that he might behold on the Great Day of Reckon-
ing. At the head of the Grand Gallery is the " seat " of the
" Dweller in Space " ; the radiant throne at the top of the
long incline to which the Initiate now lifts his eyes . Right
through the midst of the throne rises unseen the Axis of the
Great House, the Central Ray of the Grand Light of Egypt,
like a huge but impalpable mast towering from foundation
to summit of the vessel of Light . That axis passes through
the Chamber of New Birth below, and separates the Outer
from the Inner House which lies beyond the throne, as the
central but impalpable truth of Death separates the glory
which now is from the glory which lies beyond. And in the
truth of Death, to the Egyptian the "Completion-Begin-
ning " of the New Birth, the Initiate discerns " the great
bringer and taker away," as the Ritual calls the mast of the
vessel of Ra . Aloft upon the same axis, above the solar
throne, the roof of the lustrous chamber, with its starry rays,
images to him whose eyes are opened, the " Sail of the
Firmament," which, by its starry grandeur draws the soul
THE SAIL OF THE FIRMAMENT
irresistibly to God. The Well reflects to him the " Paddle "
shining in the invisible waters, as the image of the Creator
shines invisibly in the Waters of Life. The " Planks " the
rungs of the ladder whereby the soul came down to visit him,
each guarded by a spirit of celestial intelligence. In the sub-
terranean chamber he discerns the " hold " of " darkness,"
and in the Chamber of New Birth the Cabin, or Secret
1 47
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
Place of the Divine Cessel. A remarkable instance . of
pyramidal allusion is supplied by the form of the cabin .
For the roof proper was surmounted by another roof of the
singular and apparently unmeaning shape given in the text .
THE CABIN
But if above the Chamber of New Birth we indicate the
throne of Ra, which immediately surmounts it, we shall have
the shape in question ; so that the form implies the enthroni-
sation of the Uncreated Light upon the Mystery of the
Divine Mother, Isis. Upon that bark of safety take place
CHAMBER OF NEW BIRTH, SURMOUNTED BY THRONE
both his present Initiation and the Illumination which is to
come ; and each of these ascents finds its appropriate
expression in the masonry, the one in the place of New
Birth, the other in the Chamber of the Splendour .
Yet one more vision opens out to the Initiate . As he
raises his eyes more upward yet to the extreme height of the
Chamber of the Splendour, far removed from the head of the
Well, yet forming part of the same divine structure, he
discerns the " opening where Hathor is,", the azure depths
of ethereal loveliness leading to the Secret Heights above the
Chamber of Grand Orient. For a moment he gazes in silent
rapture on the far-off opening of the unimaginable vision,
CIII.
1 48
THE INITIATION OF THE POSTULANT
and then calls to his aid " the Opener of the Great Sanc-
tuary.", " Oh assistant!-oh assistant! " he exclaims, " I
am among the servants of Immortal Beauty ."s
Fortified then by that enduring remembrance-the far-off
vision of the divine Wisdom, Holiness and Beauty which is
granted to him who has received the waters of life and is
initiated into the divine mysteries-the departed turns from
the scenes of future Illumination and descends towards the
place of the impending trial .' Around him stand revealed
the " Gods of the Western Gate,"4 the Western opening to
the Well of Life, where dwell the spirits who came unseen
to his assistance at the hour when the sun of earthly life went
down into the West . From the Chamber of the Waters of
Heaven flows down the torrent of the " Celestial Nile,"' and
mingles at his side with the stream from the " Chamber of
the Birthplace of the Gods "-that stream which waters the
fields of Aahlu, the home of the regenerate . And high
above, as far as his quickened eyes can pierce, are assembled
the bright companies of starry spirits from every quarter'
to assist at his victory, his judgment and his coronation . In
the memory of that unfading vision, and the strength of
those protecting spirits, the Initiate enters and comes forth ,
from the subterranean Chamber of the Fiery Ordeal .
i CV, cvi. a In some of the papyri this is Chapter ciii . s cvii-c=.
'cvii. ' cx. 6 cxi-cxiv. 7 cxvi.
149
CHAPTER IX
THE ILLUMINATION OF THE ADEPT
INITIATION achieved and the Ordeal undergone, the
character both of the doctrine and the scene in which it was
imparted appears to undergo a transformation . Not that the
air of mystery is in any way lessened, rather it deepens, if
possible, as we penetrate into the more secret parts . But, the
period of weakness and expectancy once passed, a sense of
power and triumph grows more and more distinctly per-
ceptible as we enter the secret places of absolute " Truth."'
Turning back with the Initiate, now become the Adept,
from the " Meskwa," or Place of Ordeal, we retrace our
steps upwards under the direction of the celestial guide who
conducts us to the " Gate on the Hill,"8 the lintel hidden in
the roof far up along the Passage of the Star . In remounting
the ascent the adept once more " enters and comes forth "$
from the Gateway of the Well, that he may again receive
strength for the coming judgment . And as he approaches
the hidden portcullis, which now he is called upon to pass,
behind which sits the Eternal Wisdom, he recites for him-
self' the unforgotten words wherein the Divine Teacher
warned him of the hour now drawing near of entering into
judgments and of issuing from thence . Arrived at the hidden
portcullis' carefully concealed within the roof, that arduous
" Gateway reserved for the Gods," the divine Osiris-souls,
the gateway which none can enter, except after " coming
out " from the place of initiation, obstruction meets him at
every step. Alike in the Ritual and in the building, each
1 cxvii-cxxv. 2 cxvii. s cxx. ' cxxi. 5 xiii. a cxxii, cxxiii.
I 50
THE ILLUMINATION OF THE ADEPT
portion of that most mysterious gateway, the secret of whose
masonry still remains undisclosed, refuses entrance to the
upward path except to the adept.' " ` I will not let you go
over me,' says the sill, `unless you tell me my name .' ' The
weight in the right place is thy name,' " is the profound
reply of the adept. For, as the raising of the portcullis
depends upon the true adjustment of the weight, so also is
justice the virtue without which the path on high remains
for ever closed. " ' I will not let thee pass me,' says the Left
Lintel "-so continues this strange dialogue-" ` unless
you tell me my name.' ` Return of the True is thy name.'
` I will not let thee pass me,' says the Right Lintel, `unless
you tell me my name.' ` Return of Judged Hearts is thy
name.' " For without truth and without selfjudgment no
step can be taken of progress in the Path of Truth .a With
that doctrine we may compare the " Golden Words " of
Pythagoras, himself a pupil of the priests of Egypt :
" Do innocence; take heed before thou act;
Nor let soft sleep upon thy eyelids fall,
Ere the day's actions thou hast three times scanned,
What have I done, where erred, what left unwrought ?
Go through the whole account, and if the sum
Be evil, chide thee; but if good, rejoice.
This do, this meditate, this ever love,
And it shall guide thee into virtue's path."
But to him who has learned of wisdom, however long,
however arduous the search, the entrance into Truth cannot
finally be denied . The Hidden Lintel is crossed ; and the
memory of that passage is forever kept sacred by the grateful
departed. " I have come through the Hidden Lintel," he
cries, triumphantly, later on ; " I have come like the sun
through the gate of the festival ." The lintel crossed, the
Person of the Divine Teacher is disclosed, having before
him the true Balance of Light and Darkness.$ The " secret
i c8av. $ cxsv. a csxv.
IsI
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
• faces at the gate " unveil themselves ; and the adept stands
within the Double Hall of Truth-of Truth in Death and
Truth in Life, of Truth in Justice and Truth in Mercy, of
Truth in Darkness and Truth in Splendour. Then, as he
surmounts each obstacle besetting the entrance to the path
which leads on high, and achieves the triumph over Death,
THE FORTY-TWO JUDGES OF THE DEAD .
From the Papyrus of AnhaiA
he beholds the long array of the Judges of the Dead, the
celestial powers who take account of the moral actions of
mankind, each supreme in his own, province of the holy land,
each bearing on his head the Plume of Truth. And to each
in turn the adept, whose stains have been washed from his
heart in the furnace of the ordeal, pleads his innocence of the
sin of which that power is the special avenger . Very terrible
are the images under which those heart-searching spirits are
presented-terrible as the moral effects of our own trans-
gression, when viewed by the inner light of Truth. The
" Eyes of Fire," the passion which shrivels the intellect ; the
" Face of Smoke," the pride that clouds judgment ; the
I 52
THE ILLUMINATION OF THE ADEPT
" Crackler of Bones," the sin which corrodes the entire
manhood ; these and such as these are the fearful insignia
of the supernal powers . Most terrible of all is the spirit
" whose mouth is twisted when he speaks, because his face
is behind him," the spirit of conscience, which keeps its
dread eyes inexorably on our past, and speaks to us with
mouth contorted in the agony of self-condemnation-like
the cry of the penitent, which echoes as bitterly now as when
uttered three thousand years ago, " My sin is ever before me ."
Undeterred by that august tribunal, which, as we learn
at the threshold, none can endure but he who has truly
judged himself, the departed, protected by the Divine
Guardian, ascends the Passage of the Shadow where the
light is eclipsed, and achieves through Truth his victory over
Death., Gradually, as he draws near the low but unob-
structed gateway, the glow of the splendour begins to appear ;
and he sees before him the Sacred Orbit of the circling earth
defined by the four burning points of Solstice and Equinox,
like a basin of fire surrounded by four jets of flame .' In
front of each of those cardinal points of the heaven, are
seated four divine spirits having the semblance of an ape,
the form nearest akin to humanity. To these four universal
guardians and heralds of truth, the justified prays that he
may be purified yet further from transgressions . " O ye,"
he says, " who send forth truth to the universal Lord,
nurtured without fraud, who abominate wickedness, extract
all the evil from me ! Obliterate my faults and annihilate my
sins." " Thou mayest go," is the gracious reply of the four
heavenly teachers ; " we obliterate all thy faults and anni-
hilate all thy sins." In this manner, as the Ritual declares, is
separation from his sins effected after he has seen the faces
of the Gods." From henceforth death has no more power
over him, and in rapture he returns thanksgiving to the
supreme judges, the Gods of the Orbit, towards whom he
now advances, and to Osiris on his throne.'
i csavi-cxxx. ' cxxvi. ' cxxvii, CxxViii .
1 53
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
As he stands at the entrance of the upper chamber, where
the slight projection of the lower floor bears witness to the
passage from death to life, the divine voice, which has been
silent till the first lesson is exhausted, recommences his
illumination, and he is " instructed "1 how " to stand at the
Bark of Ra "-no longer in the lower portion of the vessel,
but free of every part. Obedient to the divine command, he
passes the " Gate of the Gateway,"E and celebrates the
Birthday of Osiris, the Opening of the Eternal Year . Then
as he advances a step and stands within the hall upon the
slight projection, he beholds the whole building before him,
the vast universe of ~ space, in its immeasurable grandeur,
now free to his immaculate spirit. And as at the Lintel of
Justice all is barred, so here every part lies open . " The
heaven opens," we reads-the Chamber of the Splendour,
with its sevenfold rays around the solar throne ; " the earth
opens," the Chamber of the Shadow ; " the North opens "
to the Chamber of the Pole Star ; " the South opens," to the
Chamber of Grand Orient ; " the West opens," to the
Entrance of the Well ; " the East opens," to the Chamber of
New Birth, with its fivefold eastern ascent of the regenerate
senses ; " the Northern and Southern Chapels open," the
Ante-chamber and the Place of Grand Orient or Chamber of
Resurrection, the Northern and Southern Chapels of the
inner house. Here, too, is the " crossing of the pure roads of
life," of which the coffin of Amamu speaks . Behind are
" the roads of darkness," which the departed in the Ritual
once prayed so earnestly that he might pass . In front lie the
fields of Aahlu, the blessed country where the justified
executes the works which he is privileged to do for Osiris .
A burst of triumph greets the justified when, having
accomplished the Passage of the Sun, he enters the Chamber
of the Orbit, the Hall of Illumination. " The deceased," we
read, " passes through the Gate of the Gateway. Prepare ye
his Hall when he comes . Justify his words against the
1 cxxix. 2 cxxx. $ cxxx.
I 54
THE ILLUMINATION OF THE ADEPT
accusers. There is given to him the food of the gods of the
Gate. There has been made for him the crown which belongs
to him as the dweller in the Secret Place ." In another place
the justified himself exclaims : " I have opened the gate of
heaven and earth (at the junction of the Halls of the Orbit
and the Shadow). " The soul of Osiris rests there. I cross
through the halls. No defect or evil is found in me ." And
once more the deceased prays that he may pass this hall .
" Place me before thee, 0 Lord of Eternity . Hail Dweller
of the West, good Being, Lord of Abydos . Let me pass the
roads of darkness ; let me follow thy servants in the gate ."
A similar note of exultation marks the passage in the
Sai-an-Sinsin, where we read of the great tribunal and the
House of Light. " Thou comest into the House of God with
much- purity," exclaim the mourners, addressing the
departed. " The gods have abundantly purified thee in the
great tribunal. Thou art not shut out of heaven ; thy body is
renewed in the presence of Osiris . Thou hast not been shut
out from the House of Glory. Thou seest the Path of
Beauty, completing every transformation which thou
desirest." And the ancient coffin of Amamu bore on the
outside this inscription, full of desire and hope : "An act of
homage to Anup, who passes the deceased over the distant
paths, the fairest of the Karneter "-that is, the land of the
holy dead. " Thine eyes," say our own sacred writings,
" shall see the King in his Beauty ; they shall behold the
land that is very far off."
The gateway passed,' the divine voice resumes its
instruction ; and teaches the justified of " going to the
heaven where Osiris is ;" of being " received into the
Sacred Heart of Ra," the fount of life,s of " the adoration
which he must render," of the vessel of eternity in which
holy souls for ever move, of the rejoicings of heavens in the
manifestations of the Godhead to man, and of the names and
places wherein those manifestations are made .
' cxxx. 2 cxxi-cxxiii. 8 cxxxiv-cxxxvi.
I 55
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
And now the justified stands within the full glory of the
Orbit, and looks forth, not with the vision of mortal seer, but
as the deathless spirits who encircle the throne. While he
stands gazing, splendour after splendour, revelation beyond
revelation, bursts upon his sight . Down from the radiant
throne of the burning sun, along the limitless floor of space,
along the sevenfold wall of the planetary heights, along the
over-arching roof of the celestial vault, streams, rivers,
floods of light come sweeping down on him whose eyes are
opened like the torrent of the summer rays, like the inunda-
tion of the overwhelming Nile, each orb, each satellite, each
distant luminary mingling its unveiled lustre in a glory
beyond thought. But the justified Illuminate breathes freely
the air of opened heaven . His senses " for ever vivified "
pierce through the utmost bounds of space ; his quickened
intellect grasps each starry law and harmony ; his purified
spirit, undazzled by the blinding radiance, discerns the
Hidden Love that occupies the throne. No longer as a
stranger', or at a distance, but as a prince admitted to the
highest honours of the court, the justified takes his place in
the very line of direct approach ; while around and above
him the measureless expanse is filled with rank beyond rank
of spirit-ministers. " He has passed his billions," we read,
" the circle of flaming ministers is around him . His blessings
follow him. ` Come,' says Truth, and he approaches her
Lord.",
At that gracious word of Truth, the abysses of mystery
reveal their most secret depths . First, the Chamber of the
Shadow is lit by the irradiating brightness ; and the Illumi-
nate discerns the nature of sin viewed in the light of truth.$
The Seven Halls of Death, 8 each measured by its cycle of
eclipse, lie open to him who has looked upon the face of
God; and each name of mystery betrays the form of dark-
ness. " Babbling " Malice, that delights in " overthrow " ;
" Fire-faced " Anger, " leaping on a sudden to the front " ;
1 cxxxi. a cxliv-d. a cxliv. The Seven Arits.
is6
THE ILLUMINATION OF THE ADEPT
Envy, the Eater of Dirt " ; Hatred, silent and " vigilant " ;
Lust, "the consumer, the overthrower in a moment," that
" lives off reptiles " ; Pride, with its " face of stone" ; Sloth,
that hardens irretrievably the heart, the " final stopper of the
rejected " ; all these betray their nature to him over whom
death has power no longer. And he discerns (as in the
vignette of the Ritual) the seven avenging spirits, each armed
with the two swords of physical and spiritual destruction .
Mounting then the steep ascent, he beholds the mystery
of judgment disclose itself in successive stages as the
twenty-one Gates of Aahlul-those gates of the divine
being whose " Heart is Beauty "-their spaces measured by
the years of Light, as it speeds from Sothis, the gates which
only open to " the meek-hearted "8 unfold before him. At
each of the first ten portals flows a celestial stream of
sparkling waters, which shed their undying lustre over the
person of the Illuminate . Ascending still towards the
throne of Ra, at the nineteenth portal he is clothed with
robes of power ; and at " the Gate of the Burning Crown,"
he stands beneath the sevenfold Royal Arch of the Planetary
Spheres . Immediately beyond is the " Stone of God,"
where he receives from the Occupant a " Crown of Illumina-
tion," the " Atf "-crown of Egypt, fashioned after the
zodiacal light of highest heaven . And behind the throne
rises the final " Gate of Peace," the End of the Course, with
its seven crowns of joy .
" I have finished the course," he cries, 8 "I am the Lord of the
Resurrection, the Avenger of his Father the heir to his Father
the Holy One. I am come. I execute for my Father the throw-
ing down of all his foes. I come full of splendour with all the
truth of the word. The Master of Devotion in the dwelling
of my Father. I come full of splendour into the temple to
offer the incense. I distribute the sacred garments . I receive
at my rising the diadem and crown myself with it on my
throne in the dwelling of my Father, and the princes of
1 cxly, exlvi. 2 cxlvi. 8 cxly.
I57
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
heaven." And again in the following chapter : " 0 Masters
of the Altars, I have made my ways, I am Horus the son of
Osiris . My Mother, Isis, pro-
tects me. I come. I come full
splendour to the gate of the
recess, and I know the mys-
teries that are in it. I come full
splendour to the gate of the
Master of the Height. 0
Lords of Eternity, I have
performed my course, I am
Horus the Son of Osiris, the
Heir of the Holy One ."
But not as yet can the
Illuminate attain the infinite
serenity which lies beyond
that gate. Death and judgment
are not the only secrets to be
disclosed when the eye of faith
becomes the eye of sight. The
place of the divine birth, the
chamber in the " Fields of
Aahlu," must be visited before
the Illuminate become the
Master of the Secret. And as he
passes portal after portal of the
fields,' he recites the titles of
her whose habitation he now
approaches : the "Mistress of
Holy Awe," the " Mistress
of Heaven," the "Regent of
the Earth," the " Help of the
Meek-hearted," the "Mistress
of Prayer," the " Light of the
THE GATE OF THE BURNING CROWN Secret River." Then, having
' CBivii .
Is8
THE ILLUMINATION OF THE ADEPT
learnt the majesty of its queen, he scans the sevenfold arch,
the Mystery of the Transcendent Heaven,' to, hold converse
with the seven Supreme Intelligences who over-arch the
Splendour of Creation .
And now the " writing which confers perfection " is
delivered to him,2 the scroll which none but the king and
the chief priest may look upon, and from it he learns the
prayer " for the food and drink of the dwellers in the
house." Yet once again, in the strength of that divine
refreshment, must the Depths be sounded and the Secret
Places be traversed, before the Illuminate can pass as master
through the Gate of Peace.e One secret of death still
remains, most terrible and inscrutable of all . While we are
yet imperfect, we can gain some knowledge of the effect of
moral death upon ourselves, and even form aa faint adumbra-
tion of its nature when viewed in the light of absolute truth .
But the mystery of its divine permission, who can penetrate ?
If the Omnipotent be all good, why did He ever allow of
evil ? If He be all-merciful, why does He permit His
creatures to suffer ? How can our actions be justly
" balanced "" when the forces which produced them were
not of our own creation ? Why are we to be made parties to
the battle of light and darkness, when no choice was given
whether we would exist or not ? Why are the souls -of just
men secretly snared and overthrown ? Whence comes the
" foul flux " which is purged from man and causes all living
creatures to shudder ? Such questions as these we ask, and
ask in vain. Yet if that darkest shadow, that horror which
forms the depth of human agony, the enshrouding of the
Eternal justice in the blackness of utter eclipse, is still liable
to arise and overpower the soul, how can man ever repose in
safety ? But that it, too, is destined to pass away in light,
when the secrets are revealed, and illumination is trans-
formed into union, who can doubt ? So at least we read in
the creed of Ancient Egypt ; where, when the other mys-
' cxlviii. 2 cxlviii. 8 cli-rlxii. 4 cli.
159
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
teries of death and judgment have been disclosed to the
Illuminate ; when he has entered into the secrets of the new
birth, and conversed with the Supreme Intelligences who
" watch before the tomb of Osiris " ; when time exists for
him no more, and he understands the design of the Eternal
House, from foundation to consummation, he makes a final
circuit of its Secret Places. Clothed in power, and crowned
with light, he traverses the "Abodes"' or scenes of his
former weakness ; there to discern, by his own enlightened
perception, how it is " Osiris who satisfies the balance of
him who rules the heavens " ; to exert in its supernal freedom
his creative will, now the lord, not the slave, of the senses ;
and to rejoice in the just suffering which wrought his
illumination and emancipation .
Finally, when that grand progress through the Habita-
tions of Humanity has been completed, the Master returns
in majesty to the celestial company assembled in their ranks
in the Grand Lodge of the Solar Throne . Mounting beneath
the Royal Arch of the Burning Crown, he treads the Stone
of God itself, and passes through the Gate of Peace, with its
seven crowns and titles of Victory . Then, outstripping in
his flight the power of mortal thought, he passes beyond the
shining orbit of the earth, beyond the vast expanse of solar
glory, across the awful chasms of the unfathomable depths,
to the far-off Sothis, the land of Eternal Dawn, the
ante-chamber of the infinite morning . He " has his star
established to him in Sothis," says the Ritual. And here the
Illuminate, now become a Master, is instructed in the last
Mysteries which precede the universal glory ; the mysteries
of the divine sorrow, the " tears of Isis,"$ whence comes the
source of the celestial Nile, the fount of illumination to man.
Here he passes within the triple veil, and is invested with
the imperishable jewels of supernal lustre .$
One chapter and one chamber yet remain-the chapter
of Orientation and the Chamber of Grand Orient beneath
1 cli. 2 Chi. a cliii-clxi.
16o
THE ILLUMINATION OF THE ADEPT
the Secret Places of the Most High . Here comes the final
mystery when the tomb is opened and the body is raised in
immortality. " Hail thou, my Father of Light," we read in a
previous chapters which tells us how the body of the holy one
shall not see corruption . " I come having this my flesh freed
from decay ; I am whole as my Father the self-begotten
God, whose image is in the incorruptible body. Do thou
establish me. Do thou perfect me as the Master of the Grave .
This, so the chapter proceeds, " is the mystery of the
change, in the body, of the life that comes from the destruc-
tion of life." And as we read we cannot but recall the words
of the Apostle ; " Behold I show you a mystery. We shall
not all sleep, but we shall all be changed, for the dead shall
be raised incorruptible and we shall be changed ." So, too, in
the final chapter$ of this book we hear the resurrection
proclaimed as with a trumpet blast, as in the innermost
chamber of the House we find the Open Tomb . " Awake,
awake, Osiris I " so sing the mourners to the beloved
departed, now glorious in the House of Light, and united
indissolubly with the Divine Being ; " awake I see what thy
son Horus hath done for thee . See what thy father Seb
hath done for thee . Raised is the Osiris." " I have opened
the doors," replies the Osiris-soul, " I have opened the
doors. . . . Well is the Great One who is in the Coffer . For
all the dead shall have passages made to him through their
embalming," when their body in the flesh shall be raised in
incorruption. Again and again is celebrated the Mystery of
the Open Tomb. As the Eclipsing planet which moves
nearest to the sun crawls like a tortoise across the face of that
orb, defacing it for a moment by its own darkness, and then
is swallowed in the radiance, so also death, that dark spot
which crawls across the vision of the eternal splendour, is
swallowed in the resurrection of Osiris-Ra, the Uncreated
Light. Four times is that Gospel of ancient Egypt pro-
claimed in the final chapter-which bears the title of the
s cliff. $ clxi.
i6i
THE BOOK OF THE MASTER
Orient., " The tortoise dies ; Ra lives! " Death is swal-
lowed in Light ; God lives for evermore . " 0 Amen,
Amen," so continues that chapter of mystery, " Amen, who
art in heaven, give thy face to the body of the Son . Make
him well in Hades. It is finished."2
Thus ends the strange and solemn dirge of ancient
Egypt. Once perceived, the intimate connection between
the secret doctrine of Egypt's most venerated books and the
secret significance of her most venerable monument seems
impossible to dissever, and each form illustrates and inter-
penetrates the other . As we peruse the dark utterances and
recognise the mystic allusions of the Book, we seem to stand
amid the profound darkness enwrapping the whole interior
of the building. All around are assembled the spirits and the
powers that make the mystery of the unseen world : the
" Secret Faces at the Gate," the " Gods of the Horizon and
of the Orbit." And dimly before our eyes, age after age, the
sacred procession of the Egyptian dead moves silently along,
as they pass the " Gate of the Hill " to the tribunal of
Osiris. In vain do we attempt to trace their footsteps till we
enter with them into the Hidden Places and penetrate the
secret of the House of Light . But no sooner do we approach
the passage and tread the chambers of the mysterious Pyramid
than the teaching of the Sacred Book seems lit up as with
a tongue of flame. The luminous veil itself melts away,
disclosing the Path of Illumination and the Splendours of the
Orbit ; the celestial Powers and Intelligences shine forth
from beneath their enshrouding symbols ; the spirits of the
just grow lustrous with the rays that proceed from beneath
the tribulan. For though none may look upon these things
unveiled till the Guardian of the Starry Gate has opened for
him the Portal of the Light, yet for the adept who has been
mysteriously initiated in the deep waters, and illuminated
1 It bears no title in The Book of the Master, says Marsham Adams, but is
elsewhere so called .
2 See the rubric to this chapter .
1 62
THE 1LLtJMINAT1ON OP THE AbEPT
by the sevenfold Beauty, the invisible things become mani-
fest by the visible creation . And a Light which is not of
earth reveals in its divine unity the full secret of the Hidden
Places ; the Entrance to the Path of Heaven ; the Well of
Life ; the Place of New Birth ; the Ordeal of Fire ; the
Lintel of Justice ; the Victory over Death ; the Judgment of
Truth ; the Splendour of Illumination ; the Throne of
Radiance ; the Veil of Perfection ; and the Grand Orient of
the Open Tomb, beneath the secret chambers of the Height,
crowned by the Grand Arch of the Supreme Trinity .
Thus only, according to that primaeval creed, could man
fulfil his marvellous destiny ; and thus only can that destiny
accomplish his heart's desire . If it be true, as some have
held, that
" Veil after veil shall lift-but there must be
Veil after veil behind ";
that man, throughout all eternity, shall never know, even as
he is known, then is his creation vain and his resurrection a
mockery. No skill in the secrets of the material universe, no
dominion over the forces of life and death, no power to
pierce the veil which hangs before the unseen world and to
hold communication with the spiritual intelligences, will
satisfy his secret aspirations . For the soul of man-so every
form of creed declares-can know no rest, nor can his spirit
ever be satisfied, so long as the thinnest film remains to
interrupt the unclouded vision of the Hidden Love ; until
he stand face to face and eye to eye with " Him who knows
the Depths ."
We quit that solemn monument of primaeval mystery ;
and as we turn a farewell glance upon the Gate of Heaven,
the veil of the majestic masonry once more hides from view
the interior splendour, and enwraps the Secret Places of the
Hidden God.
1 63
NOTES*
NOTE A
TABLE OF OFFERINGS . Page 33
In his interesting work Noemi, Mr. Baring-Gould speaks of an
archaic relic near Sarlat in. the Dordogne, which is evidently a Table
of Offerings. He describes it as a dolmen, or sepulchral chamber,
roofed by a flat stone having a number of holes scooped in the centre ;
and he mentions that the market women lay their fish upon it for
luck; a most singular survival of the ancient custom, since fish, as may
be seen in the vignettes of the Book of the Master, formed a principal
portion of the offerings . Indeed the burial customs of the most widely
scattered nations receive singular illustration when compared with the
religion of the dwellers on the Nile, the seat of the earliest records and
the cradle of civilisation.
NOTE B
THE DELUGE . Page 61
From the same source a good deal of light may, I think, be thrown
upon the scriptural account of the Deluge, regarded as a phenomenal
inundation of the Nile valley, the dwelling-place of the prima;val
family, as I have endeavoured to show elsewhere ; and this, again, will
be found to react upon various questions connected with the early
settlement of Egypt ; the worship of Nou, the deity of the water ; the
sacred ark of Amen, the prototype of the ark of Moses ; the especial
reverence paid to the Nilometer, or " tat," the symbol of the divine
Nou, with its threefold measure of the inundation ; the sudden
immergence of that lonely yet majestic civilisation ; the dim tradition
of bygone generations ; the intense reverence paid to the patriarchal
monarchs; the universal jurisdiction claimed by the divine royalty of
Egypt; and, above all, the serene contemplation of death as the
* These notes, except where indicated, are by Mr . Marsham Adams.-Ed.
1 6 5
NOTES
luminous entrance to the fields of light. The Babylonian tradition
also given in the Deluge tablet, translated in Records of the Past, is
in agreement with the same view; for according to that tradition, the
i
THE SACRED TAT OR MEASURE OF THE INUNDATION
theatre of the cataclysm was certainly not Babylonia, since the hero
declares positively that he had crossed the sea . In fact, so far as I have
been able to trace, there is no nation from India and China in the east,
to Mexico and Peru in the furthest west, whose native traditions and
archxological relics are in discord either with the Egyptian tradition of
the primxval land of Poont, or with the scriptural description of the
primaeval watershed, if we are content to read, by the light of Egyptian
tradition, the account handed down to us by Moses, whom those
Scriptures expressly characterise as pre-eminent in Egyptian know-
ledge.
NOTE C
DISTANCE FROM POLE IS EQUAL TO DISTANCE FROM CENTRE . Page 64
This property may perhaps be clear from the following considera-
tions. Suppose C -to be the centre of the earth, P the situation of the
Great Pyramid, N the North Pole, and E the point where the
E
meridian of the building cuts the Equator, then ECP will be the
166
NOTES
latitude of the building, namely 30°, whence it will be seen at once that
the triangle CNP will be equilateral, since the angle at C is 6o°, and
the radii CN and CP will be equal to each other, assuming the earth
to be a sphere. Hence therefore, PN, the distance from the Pyramid
to the North Pole, will be equal. to PC, the distance to the centre of
the earth.
NOTE D
THE SACRED ANGLE. Page 67
Among the jewels placed as the last ornaments upon the sacred
mummy, was sometimes included the Golden Angle ; one of the most
obscure, but at the same time the most interesting symbols employed
by the Egyptians. The Angle is found, not held in the hand, but borne
aloft upon the arm of the great Deity, " Amen the Eternal Father,"
and is also one of the sceptres carried by Ptah, the Creator-Spirit .
What is more singular, the well-known image called the Pataikos,
which was carried by the ships of Phoenicia, has been identified very
clearly by Champollion with the same God Ptah ; and the meaning
of Pat-Aik in Egyptian is the Dedication of the Angle . The same
figure is also found among the rock sculptures on the coast of Asia
Minor.
GREAT ANGLE, BORNE ALOFT BY AMEN, SOURCE OF LIFE, IN TRINITY OF EGYPT
While the sacred symbol of the Angle was thus widely diffused, the
name itself (disguised to us in various languages) seems to have been
borne by several races of the Levant. About the central or narrower
part of the Mediterranean, just where the Italian peninsula juts out
towards the projecting promontory of Africa, we meet the name of
Angle in the important island of Sikelia or Sicily, a country which,
1 6 7
NOTES
from its position, has caught the current of many migrations and
supplied the arena of many collisions . That island took its appellation
not from the Romans-for they, as Ovid tells us, called it Trinacis,
from its three-cornered shape-but from the Sikeli, a tribe who,
according to Thucydides, immigrated into it from the southern part
of Italy, with which territory the island was for centuries intimately
associated. Now the Sikeli bear a name which is meaningless in
Greek or Latin, but in Egyptian signifies, without change or modifica-
tion of any kind, ~° Sons of the Angle ; " while the similar but more
suggestive title of " Pirates of the Angle " is found in the Greek name
Laestrygones, another race who dwelt there, of such high antiquity
that Thucydides confesses his ignorance of their origin . From hence,
too, we may not improbably derive our own word " sickle," or " sikel "
as it used to be spelt . For the sickle-sword (of which an Angle was a
symbol in the priestly alphabet of Egypt) was, as may still be seen upon
the monuments, the sacred weapon with which the Egyptian monarch
slew the captives ; and as Captain Burton has shown in his well-known
treatise on the sword, it is the instrument from which both the
Eastern scimitar and the cutlass of our own sailors take shape .
Again, at the eastern extremity of the Levant, the name of Angle
once more appears in a double form, and a still more marked and
suggestive connection . Right opposite the mouths of the Nile, just in
the locality where the sea-immigrants from Egypt would probably
land after passing the almost harbourless coasts of Palestine, lie the
countries of Kilikia and Phoenicia, each expressing that idea of Angle
(in Egyptian Kilik, in Hebrew Phoene) ; while the two together form
the Angle of the bight through which runs the 'great dividing line of
East and West.
Yet once more in Egypt itself, according to the account contained
in Genesis-and Moses, it must be remembered, was at least an expert
in Egyptian tradition-we find among the descendants of Ham the
tribe of the Patroosim, which in that language means the Frontiers of
the Angle (Pat-Rois), and connects them with those princes of the
Angle who formed, as we have seen, an integral portion of the court of
Pharaoh.
What angle then is this of such supreme importance that it should
be the symbol of the great Deity, and should give a name to the
princely races of the earth ? Of the highly important part played by the
relation between Angle and Circle in the structure of the Pyramid we
1 6 8
NOTES
have already spoken ; but there is another Angle which still remains
for consideration, namely that between the two branches of the
GREAT ANGLE OF THE NILE DELTA, SOURCE OF LIFE, IN TRIANGLE OF EGYPT
Delta into which the river forks at Memphis below the Great House .
Now this Angle supplies a simple key to a very curious problem in
cosmography . Upon examining the well-known triple division of the
ancient world, it is somewhat difficult to perceive upon what principle
it was effected. Russia can even now be scarcely considered as forming,
either by race or by conformation, a portion of Europe proper ; while
as Scythia, it seems to have been regarded as entirely separate . Asia
Minor, on the other hand, possesses a shore-line almost continuous
with that of Greece; and her population, at least upon the coasts,
seem to have derived in great measure from kindred sources. Nor is it
easy to find the central point from which the three dividing lines
branch out. It cannot, for instance, be situated in Babylonia, where
some might be inclined to place it, because Syria lies to the West ;
neither again can it be in Armenia, where others might look for it,
since a considerable space divides that country from Africa. If,
however, we take up our stand in front of the Great House at Mem-
phis, the masonic record of primaeval science, the entrance to which
indicates the principal division of the universal sphere, and look abroad
upon the great river which we have seen represented within, we shall
find that the form which that river assumes at the spot suggests three
divisions of the entire hemisphere. Behind us, towards the south,
stretches the long valley leading up to the hidden sources of the far-
distant primseval land ; indicating the huge peninsula of Africa
enclosed between the seas, and constituting also the southern boundary
of the vast Mediterranean basin. And right along that valley, above
the Great House, through the whole kingdom of Upper Egypt,
stretches the Grand Meridian, tracing out upon the earth the Grand
Arch of the Universe, and traversing their ancient home beneath the
supreme dome of highest heaven . Next, if the lines of the northern
1 69
NOTES
fork be prolonged indefinitely, then eastward of the most eastern
branch lies the continent of Asia ; westward of the most western is
Europe proper . Finally, between the legs, lies the famous kingdom of
Lower Egypt, with the Princes of the Angle ; while on the coast
beyond is Kilikia, the land of the Angle ; and further again, but still
within the legs of the same Angle, stretches the immense plain of
Scythia, separating and yet uniting East and West. Upon the southern
borders of that plain, on the coast of the Black Sea, according to the
ancient traditions of our Sagas, the ancestors of Odin and of the sea-
going race, which still bears the proud name of Angles, had their pirate
home. And it is not a little remarkable that the same Saga refers more
than once to the boundary line of east and west as passing close by their
ancient city upon the Black Sea, and mentions as their neighbours the
tribe of the Vans, whose name appears frequently upon the ancient
monuments, and is still preserved in the Armenian lake which lies by
that boundary line.
It is strange, too, to observe that no sooner are the records of our
ancestors permitted to speak as to their own history, records incidentally
confirmed both by classic historians, such as Florus, and by the ancient
monuments, than a glimpse of still higher antiquity opens out through
the title of our nation, connecting itself with the widespread symbol of
the Egyptian Angle ; and a flood of light is poured upon our words and
customs by reference to Egyptian sources . Thus the familiar name of
Viking, for which no meaning has been assigned, signifies in Egyptian
an Angle-dweller, that is, an Englishman ; and the two words com-
posing it are still preserved in English as " wick," a place, and " kink,"
an indention. Berserk again, another well-known but unintelligible
appellation, means in that ancient tongue " foam-plough " ; a striking
and most natural image for those ploughers of the ocean to employ, and
one which harmonises exactly with the numerous poetic titles given
to the Vikings to their true home, the ship . Odin himself, though the
descendant of ancestors who had been settled for generations upon the
Euxine, bore an Egyptian name-the significant name of Destroyer ;
and his standard, the raven, was the Egyptian symbol of destruction .
Nor was it only in his character of pirate' (itself an Egyptian word), but
as teacher also that his associations connect themselves with the same
I Some etymologists strangely derive this word from the Greek 7retpacli,
" to attempt " ; as though a pirate, of all people in the world were a man
to leave his work half-finished .
I 70
NOTES
source. According to tradition, he was acquainted in some measure
with the process of embalmment, and he claimed to know the secret of
the sacred writing, while his followers were distinguished by the winged
headdress which was borne by the sacred scribe of Egypt, as represent-
ing the dominion of east and west bestowed by Ra upon Thoth, the
Lord of Wisdom. So with the funeral feasts, the elaborate ceremonies
and the intercourse with the dead which had so rooted a hold in the
hearts of out Scandinavian forefathers . The Asars, or holy ancestors
whom they worshipped, were the very counterpart both in name and
in attributes with the holy souls of Egypt who had become united with
Osiris (more properly Aasar or Ausar), and were themselves described
by his name. The title of Hersir, or Leader of the Host, which, as
Du Chaillu has pointed out in his valuable work, was older than that of
the king, bears in the hieroglyphic (her-ser) the identical signification
of Chief Organiser . The land of Kent (Khent)' was a territory of the
holy dead, and its hieroglyph was a sail. Nay, there is scarcely a
feature in the strange mythology of Scandinavia which does not reflect
an image more or less distorted of some portion of the Egyptian
Ritual. Or, to give one more illustration of a different but equally
curious character, our national shout of " Hip, Hip, Hurrah ! " which
rises spontaneously though unmeaningly to our lips, and which is said
to be the shout also of the Cossack dwellers by our ancient home upon
the Black Sea, conveys in the hieroglyphic (Hep, Hep, Hura), " On,
on to plunder," the significant cry of our pirate ancestors, at the
moment of accomplishment. Strangest of all it is to- think that the last
of the Hidden Places of the earth to be opened to civilised man should
have been the traditional scene of his earliest dwelling-place ; that the
source of the historic river which, by its mighty Angle, traces out the
lines of the first settlement of the globe, should to-day be the centre of
its latest division by the world-dividing nation of Angles; and that
while the vast lake which marks the ancient " apex of the earth " bears
the name of the monarch of that race, the Egyptian kingdom itself
should be ruled at the dictation of her ministers.
It is true that these traditions, like those of other nations also, are
entirely at variance with the remarkable adventures of the famous
' Pierret, in his Hieroglyphic Lexicon, states that Khent means always to
ascend the Nile towards the south, and that the sail is always deployed ; thus
answering, in the Path of Light, to the ascent of the Orbit by the Illuminate
beneath the open sail of the firmament .
I7'
NOTES
" Aryan race," that marvellous creature of modern myth-making
which flits with all the brilliance of a will-of-the-wisp over the most
impossible morasses of Imaginative History. Happily, however, its
illustrious creator, Professor Max Muller, has himself given what we
hope will prove the death-blow to his scarcely less celebrated offspring,
by utterly denying before the British Association any reality to its
existence ; by laughing to scorn the idea of any such thing as an Aryan
skull, and by stating plainly that the Aryan race is nothing more or less
than a figment of philological convenience . For not until the last
glimmer of that alluring but most misleading meteor has disappeared
will the ancient records of nations be permitted to throw their light
upon the past. Nor until then shall we understand our own laws and
language, our customs and constitution, or trace the history of the
Imperial nation of the waters which perpetuates the name of the sacred
Angle. And surely no kingdom ever yet possessed a more romantic
story in the past, or attained a position of more absorbing interest or
more perilous pre-eminence than that occupied by England to-day, as
she stands in the central, land of highest antiquity, with hands stretching
to every quarter of the globe-a solitary figure of commanding
majesty, but uncertain in policy, unguarded in frontier, and almost
unarmed in defence ; while surrounded by the seething nations which
count their hosts by the million, and listening with a careless ear to the
muttered breathings of universal war .
NOTE E
THE PLACE OF THE ORBIT . Page 69
In connection with this point, a singular illustration suggests itself
with regard to the form (hitherto unexplained) of one of the most
important symbols of Egyptian monarchy . At the present epoch the
earth reaches the apsides, or turning-points of her orbit, that is to say,
the greatest and least distances from the sun, a few days after passing,
respectively, through the summer and winter solstices . But inasmuch
as those points have a slow relative motion round the orbit, the period
1 72
NOTES
of the year at which they were attained six thousand years ago (or
about the time of which we speak) took place about the times of the
ORBIT
equinox. Hence if we represent the orbit in its true elliptic form, the
tangent at the extremity of the major axis will define both the point of
equinox, through which it passes, and the direction of the minor axis,
or line of solstice, to which it will be parallel, thus indicating the
Q-D
ROYAL CARTOUCHE
relations of the universe . And the figure thus described exactly gives
us the royal cartouche always encircling the names of the Egyptian
kings ; which thus images forth the celestial foundation and universal
jurisdiction of that monarchy so long as ,the earth preserves its divinely
appointed course .
NOTE F
NORTH IN THE HIEROGLYPHIC RECORDS . Page 73
From the foregoing considerations, when bearing in mind the
archaic date of the erection, and the celestial bearings of the temple at
the epoch, we may clear up a peculiarity of some difficulty on the
records, which M . Mariette, the famous authority on this temple, has
pointed out but left without any solution. It is beyond dispute, says
that eminent writer, that when the records speak of the north they
mean the east, a peculiarity, however, which he seems to regard as a
mere Egyptian eccentricity, scarcely needing discussion . And he then
proceeds to point out that " the north of the hieroglyphic records " is
just 75° to the westward of what he calls " true north," that is to say,
1 7 3
NOTES
the north as defined by our cardinal points, which of course shift slowly
round the heavens as the axis describes the precessional circuit . But the
time which has elapsed since Pepi fulfilled the command of Khufu by
erecting that temple is between 5,4oo and 5,500 years ; and 75 degrees
therefore, will be about the arc of precession which the celestial axis
has traversed during that period . Hence, then, if the north of which
the temple speaks is not the shifting north of our planet, but the
changeless point of the heavens to which the axis of our planet pointed
when the Pole Star gave the signal for the erection of the temple of the
universe, the expression is exact .
NOTE G
HIEROGLYPHIC INSCRIPTION ROUND THE BORDER OF THE " ZODIAC "
OF DENDERAH . Page 75
As no translation, so far as I am aware, of this inscription has yet
been published, I beg to submit the following, which commences on
the point marked as north on the planisphere and follows the order of
the hieroglyphs :
Turning-point of the circles of Light .
Head of the circles of Annu (Denderah) ; Horus, Entrance of the
Golden Heaven, Seat of Sacred Dances in the six Heights of Horus,
Son of Osiris.
Palace chamber of Height of Holy Adoration ; Palace chamber of
Height of Light.
Ahi, Lord of the Palace chamber, Height of the Hour of living
Osiris, Burning Height of priestess of Holy Moon .
Chief of the Southern Splendour.
Meeting-place, Region of Gods . Head of nurse of Ra, Living
Breath of the waters of passage of the double Hour .
Heavenly Flame of Burning Gold.
Gold Heaven of Isis.
Horizon of Light.
The Great One of the Lady Mother .
With regard to the deities represented on the planisphere, which are
very numerous, their various characteristics are the same as are
1 74
NOTES
ordinarily portrayed in the sacred pictures. And of different figures
here depicted the following may be more particularly mentioned . The
Thigh and the Knife, both well-known Egyptian constellations, are
found, respectively, in the vignettes of Chapters xv and l ; the sacred
Ankh or symbol of life in Chapter xli ; the Lotus in Chapter lxxxi and
again in Chapter clxii ; the Plough in Chapter cx ; the Balance in
Chapter cxxv ; and the deity with the Urmus head in Chapter cxlv;
all these with others being in the Book of the Master, which contains
also a great number of allusions in the body of the text . Another of the
sacred writings to which we have also referred, the inscription on the
coffin of Queen Ankhnes-Ra-Nefer-Ab, possesses no vignettes, but
contains several allusions which are illustrated by the planisphere, as,
e.g. the " Ram," the " Four Heads on One Neck,", and the repeated
allusions to the " Eight."2
NOTE H
THE SACRED IMAGES IN THE TEMPLE OF INCARNATE LIGHT . Page 77
While there is nothing much to surprise us-when once we have
brushed aside the schoolboy scholarship so predominant at our univer-
sities, which cannot imagine any conception of antiquity originating
except in Greece-in finding the sacred images employed in this
mystical temple of incarnate Light repeated again and again in the
mystical writings, we may well be astonished to find that this same
planisphere illustrates also nearly all the images employed in one of the
most familiar passages of the prophet Isaiah (Chapter xi)-that which
relates to the Rod from the Stem of Jesse . There is the " Rod " itself,
1 The Ram of Mendes is sometimes spoken of as the Ram with " Four
Faces on One Neck." This is in allusion to the fact that the Ram of Mendes
(Ba-Neb-Tettu), originally a local form of Ra, was later considered as
embracing within him not merely the Soul of Ra, but also those of Osiris, Seb
and Shu. The allusion to which Marsham Adams refers will be found in line
463 of Budge's translation of the text inscribed on the coffin of this Queen,
to which allusion has previously been made . See note 2, p. 5 r, and note 1,
p. 142. En.
2 Op. cit. lines 431, 43 2. 434, 435. 437, 43 8 . ED.
1 7 5
NOTES
fashioned like a " stem," with roots, and forming the " Tam " sceptre
of Egypt; and close by it is the Branch, in the hand of the woman.
There are the " two girdles "-the sole vestments of the divine Horus
-one round his neck, the other his loins . And there, too, are the Cow,
the Bear, the Lion, the Lamb, the Asp, and the Little Child . And
this resemblance is all the more striking when we remember that the
temple to which the planisphere belongs was dedicated to the mother of
God, and observe that the most conspicuous figure depicted upon it is
that which is also displayed so prominently upon the walls of the
building-the sacred mother holding in her arms the divine infant, the
second Person in the Egyptian Trinity.
NOTE J
TWELVE EQUAL MONTHS. Page 100
With regard to the designation of the particular months, the
practice appears to have differed in the sacred and civil kalendars . In
the former, the different months are expressed merely as the First,
Second, Third or Fourth Month of the particular Season, the days
being numbered like our own. But for popular use their names were
as follows :
NOTE K
PRECESSION FAMILIAR TO EGYPTIAN ASTRONOMERS . Page III
Since owing to the effect of precession, there is a gradual change in
the right ascension and declination of every star, there is also a cor-
responding change in the day of heliacal rising. Thus, while the star
whose orient at Philx (in Egyptian, Pilak) marked the period of the
solstice for the third cycle was, as we have seen, Sothis, or Sirius, that
for the second cycle appears to have been Pollux and that for the first
Regulus, the principal star in the constellation of the Lion, which is
1 7 6
Season of Inundation Season of Winter Season of Heat
(Se) (Pir) (Semon)
Thoth Tybi Pachons
Paophi Mechi Payni
Hathor Pharmuti Epiphi
Choiak Phamenoth Mesori
NOTES
identified by Professor Renouf with our own constellation of the same
name. In making this and similar calculations, I have taken 50".2
for the yearly precessional motion, and half a minute of arc per century
for the variation in the obliquity . The formula for finding the day of
orient or heliacal rising (when the right ascension and declination of the
star have been determined for the required epoch), are given, I may
observe, in Maddy's Astronomy.
Before quitting this subject, it is worth noticing how many classical
names of stars and constellations, meaningless in the Greek and Latin,
acquire a significance when referred to the Egyptian tongue . Thus
Ur Oon (Great Being) gives us Orion ; Kas Pehu (Lake of Inunda-
tion), Cassiopeia ; Ark Ter (Shrine of Meeting), Arkturus ; and Kha
Nub (Place of Gold), Canopus . Some names indeed are scarcely dis-
tinguishable from the Egyptian words, so slight is the change in
pronunciation when compared with the immense difference in time
and place, such as the star Khaph in the constellation Cassiopeia,
signifying in Egyptian, Power ; Scheat (Schete) in Pegasus, Secret;
and Nath (Nut) in Taurus, meaning the heaven .
NOTE L
NOTE ON CERTAIN MEASURES IN BABYLONIA AND EARLY CHINA .
Page 130
Since, supposing the views put forward in the previous chapters to
be correct, the Egyptian measures of time and space are certainly the
oldest on record, it may not be amiss if, before passing to the inner
mysteries, we compare them with two other famous systems of
antiquity, and observe how certain anomalies which have hitherto been
incapable of explanation, become simple and intelligible when regarded
as misconceptions of the Egyptian reckoning . Take, for example, that
of Chaldea . That the Babylonian astronomers measured their time by
periods of 6o, of 6oo and of 3,600 years (the soss, the ner and the
sar) is well known, and that they also divided the circle into degrees,
and again into sixty and sixty times sixty measures . But upon what
principle they chose the sexagesimal measure, and whether they
regarded the two sets of multiples as possessing any connection with
each other is not so clear. According to Lenormant, they calculated
their periods " on the great astronomical cycle of 43,200 solar years,
representing, according to their calculations, the total period of the
1 77
M
NOTES
precessions of the equinoxes "(!)-a theory, which, if true, does not
say much for their astronomical skill .
There is, however, another cycle, closely connected with that of
precession, which, while suggesting the sexagesimal measure, will be
found to yield a convenient unit for both divisions . For since the two
points of perihelion and equinox revolve gradually in opposite direc-
tions, they will increase their distance from each other every year by
the sum of their annual movements, which is reckoned at about
61 .9", and is called the Anomaly. Hence, neglecting the decimal of
the second, and remembering that 61"=i't", and 6i'=i°i', we
have the following table :
Period Anomaly
For i year =ii'
=1 (Circular) Min .
+-g'~th Min.
i Soss = 6o years =z ° t'
i Ner= io Soss= 6oo years = 10010?
i Sar= 6 Ner= 6o Soss= 3,600 years =60
Half Cycle=6 Sar=36 Ner=36o Soss=2i,6oo years =366°
=36o'+6'
=Circle +Wrvth Circle
=6o x6o Anomaly for 6 years.
Now, as the cycles of precession and perihelion are involved in the
construction of the Egyptian measures, so also would this cycle (which
is a mere deduction from the other two) also be known ; and, in fact,
we find standards of length in Egypt corresponding to this cycle as to
others. Suppose, then, that some visitor or half-educated native should
acquire a smattering of astronomy, so far as to obtain the measure of
one cycle and the name of another ; then we should have the confusion
between Anomaly and Equinox contained in the Babylonian measures.
And suppose again, that the same ingenious inquirer should hear,
without understanding, of the double reckoning involved in the Sothiac
cycle, and, in order to make things quite correct, should apply it to the
period he had devised for precession, then we should have the 43,200
years (zx2r,6oo) above described. Whether or not this be the
explanation, a remarkable example of a very similar misconception is
supplied by the orientation of their buildings . For, as the late Pro-
fessor de Lacouperie pointed out, their cardinal points, though rela-
1 78
NOTES
tively correct, are all shifted through one-eighth of a circle, their south
being really south-west. And this, it will be easily seen, is precisely
what would be done by any one who, having obtained his notion of the
cardinal points in Egypt without understanding the principle, should
imagine them to be fixed, and should use the Egyptian points while
dwelling in Babylonia.
Such an origin is quite in agreement with other points connected
with Babylonian civilisation. That certain of their principal measures,
such as the standard of Telloh, were derived from Egypt is undoubted.
And their tradition that the elements of their civilisation were
imparted by Oannes, half man and half fish, who retired every night
into the sea, just answers the description of an immigrant sailing up
the Persian Gulf from the eastern coast of Egypt, and retiring to his
ship each night; while such a course itself would be a natural con-
tinuation of the course pursued by the ancestors of the Egyptians in
their emigration from Poont in the south .
Far to the eastward again, a problem, or rather_ a whole set of
problems, given up for many centuries by the native archxologists,
receive simple solution when we apply the same principle to the
ancient Kalendar of China . From a highly interesting paper read in
the Victoria Institute by the Rev. Dr. Legge, University Professor
of Chinese at Oxford, and prince of Sinologists, we find that after the
ninth century before the Christian era, the Chinese year was divided
into periods of sixty days. These days were expressed in writing by
means of two classes of characters, called respectively the ten heavenly
stems and the twelve earthly branches, which were taken together in
pairs, each branch being taken with a stem, but the stem always
preceding, never following, the branch; whereby each day of the
cycle was represented by a different pair . And he observes that the
sexagesimal cycle was of extreme antiquity, and that " how it arose is a
mystery; but that he would make little account of that if could tell
from whence the inventors got their component parts, the ten stems
and the twelve branches ." But a reference to-the far more ancient
Egyptian Kalendar naturally suggests the sexagesimal measure ; while
sixty alternations of light and darkness which constituted the Egyptian
month easily resolve themselves in foreign hands into a period of sixty
days. Again, the two hieroglyphs which express the year, the stem
(" Se ") for its totality, and the branch (" Apu-ter ") for its com-
mencement, supply the titles of the characters ; while the number of
1 '79
NOTES
days in the sacred decade give the ten heavenly stems and the number
of months in the civil year the twelve earthly branches. There seems,
therefore, little difficulty in conceiving that the elements of the Eastern
calculations may have been obtained from that more central and far
more ancient civilisation, particularly if we consider, as many now
admit, that the elements of religion and of science were first imported
into China from the head of the Persian Gulf (the direct route from
Egypt") by the famous tribe which bore the name of Bak, which in the
hieroglyphic signifies the land of Egypt .
Turning now for a while from Professor Le_4:e's valuable paper to
the oldest of the religious books of China, the Shu King, of which he
has himself given a translation to the world, we are met by more than
one passage referring unmistakably to a superior condition of culture
formerly enjoyed and irrecoverably lost. At the end of the third Book
the chiefs lament the loss of the " Standard Stone and the Equalising
Quarter,2 formerly preserved in the treasury ." A standard stone kept
in the royal treasury as a reference for weights and measures is intel-
ligible enough, and reminds us of the allusion in the Egyptian Ritual
to " the Stone from the building of those who possess the Ark of
Osiris." But an " Equalising Quarter! " A quarter of what ? And
" The late Professor de Lacouperie, to whose labours is chiefly due the
tracing of a connection between the civilisation of China and the Bak tribe
(proceeding, not from Babylonia itself, but from the country immediately
to the eastward of it), has detected a certain resemblance, in a considerable
number of instances, between the archaic characters employed by the two
countries. But if a further comparison be made with the corresponding
characters of Egypt, the Chinese will be found to resemble the latter with at
least equal, if not greater,, closeness, a circumstance which seems to point to a
common origin from the source more ancient than either . And an immigra-
tion, it is to be observed, from the country east of Babylonia into China would
be a natural continuation of an emigration to the head of the Persian Gulf,
just as the latter course would be a natural continuation of the original
migration from Poont.
2 Professor de Lacouperie, who favoured me with a discussion on this
subject, pointed out that Midleton translates this expression simply by the
word " measure." To this I have no reply to make, except that Professor
Legge is a very high authority, and that he can scarcely have been unacquainted
with that translation . The expression, moreover, seems to speak for itself, for
it is just of that peculiar character which no translator would be likely to assign
gratuitously, while a very able scholar might fail to render it with precision .
1 80
NOTES
what did it equalise ? We know, indeed, of one-quarter-a quarter of a
day by which in the older country the rotations of the earth were
equalised or harmonised with its revolutions, and which served as a
standard for all manner of periods and measures. And this very
quarter suggests at once a connection with the Standard Stone, since
that stone itself, the throne of Ra in the house of Osiris, crowning the
Chamber of the five Divine Birthdays, and containing the measure of
the thirty-six sacred decades, represented the " Hep-Tep " or sacred
Festival of Completion-Beginning, involving the secret of the Grand
Cycle and the equalising quarter of a day.
That such a quarter had been lost we have proof from another part
of the same sacred books of China. About twenty-two or twenty-
three centuries before the Christian era, and some fourteen or fifteen
hundred years before the earliest extant trace of the Chinese Kalendar,
the Emperor of China was seized with a fit of archaeological fervour,
and instituted the first historical records of that country of which many
traces remain. One result of his researches had an unfortunate effect
upon certain of his subjects . Filled as he felt himself to be with the
ancient wisdom, he summoned his astronomers and laid down to them
the broad and simple principle that every year consists of three hundred
and sixty-six days-a statement which is, as we have seen, more
strictly correct than three hundred and sixty-five days if understood
properly as the Egyptians understood it; but which, without the
secret of the sidereal day or of the Grand Cycle, inevitably leads to
calculations which events would refuse to verify . Accordingly it is not
surprising that the unlucky astronomers when next engaged in
predicting an eclipse went altogether wide of the mark . But the
Emperor rose to the occasion. He had been, he said, " searching into
antiquity," and had no doubt what was due to so gross an ignorance of
their office. Everything, he observed severely, " had been done which
ought to have been done . The tom-toms were beaten ; the petty
officers galloped ; the inhabitants ran about the streets ." And yet
when the sun took no notice of these proceedings the astronomers sat
like a log and did nothing! It was disgraceful. However, the law was
clear on the matter. If the astronomers predicted the eclipse too soon,
off with their heads; if too late, off with their heads. And as in this
case it must have been either too soon or too late, their heads went off
accordingly. No wonder the Chinese men of science lamented the
loss of the Equalising Quarter .
I8I
NOTES
In these cases, however, the suggestion of an Egyptian origin is
only indirect, through that country supplying the clue which the later
nation apparently lost. But there is another problem to which Pro-
fessor Legge invites particular attention, observing that he looks for-
ward to its solution with no slight interest ; and that is the origin of
certain " dissyllables and trissyllables," introduced in the place of the
days of the month by the illustrious archaeologist and reviser of the
Chinese Kalendar, Szema Ch'ien, descended of a long line of imperial
historiographers, who wrote towards the close of the second century
B.c. Although the terms which Ch'ien uses appear in a rudimentary
dictionary of the time of the Han Dynasty, Professor Legge is strongly
of opinion, or rather entertains no manner of doubt, that they are of
foreign extraction ; and he states that a famous Taoistic scholar, Kwo
To, who died A.D. 324, put the terms on one side as incapable of
explanation. " A discovery," the eminent scholar goes on to say,
" may be in store for the explorers in Sanskrit or Assyriology, or some
other eastern mind. But let it be borne in mind that the use of the
cycle of sixty for the measurement of days, and possibly for other
periods, was long-very long-anterior to Szema Ch'ien ." Now it is
a most singular circumstance, and one which testifies strongly to the
penetration of that eminent scholar, that these same names when
referred to the Coptic or vulgar tongue of Egypt, not only possess
intelligible meaning, but that in almost every case they signify an
Egyptian festival, as on page 183 .
The expression " Within the Wall " is particularly notable for its
accordance with an Egyptian festival is in itself so extraordinary as to
render it very difficult to regard it as a mere coincidence . Although,
therefore, it is far from probable that a Chinese scholar should
deliberately adopt foreign, in the place of native titles, yet, on the other
hand, if the elements of the kalendar were imported into China by its
first civilisers from the more primaeval country, nothing is more
likely than that a man so devoted to archxology as Professor Legge
describes Szema Ch'ien to have been, should have hunted out these
archaic titles from the earliest records of China, and should have
endeavoured to bring them into use as more correct terms, although
possibly he may have been unable to understand their meaning . In any
case the table, wherein the strange titles employed by Ch'ien are
paralleled with their phonetic equivalents in the Egyptian tongue, and
the translation of those equivalents in the festival to which they seem
1 8 2
NOTES
to correspond, will enable the reader to judge for himself how far the
Egyptian key avails to open the Chinese lock which for fifteen hundred
years has been given up by the Chinese experts .
1 8 3
Titles employed
by
Szema Ch'ien
Egyptian
Phonetic
Equivalent
Signification of
Egyptian
Equivalent
Corresponding
Egyptian Festival
or Doctrine
Yu Chao Ioh-Khaou Moon-Day Birth of Moon .
Chiang Wu Chinka-Oue Separation Separation (cele-
Chu-Li Khouo-Lai Abundant rejoic-
brated twice a
month).
Great Festival
Shun-Hang Sheu-N-Ankh
ing
Altar of Life
(Kalendar) .
Fire Altar
Sheh-ti-Ko Sheu-Ti-Koi Altar of the
(Ritual).
Fields of Aahlu
Chao Yang Khao-Ch'ink'
Fields of God
Separation of Day
(Paradise).
Burial of Osiris.
Tan-eh Tanghe Preservation One of the stages
Chih-Hsu Khi-Shu Dart of Shu
in the Path of
Light.
Dart of Shu (turn
Ta Mang-Lo Taia-Maein- Panegyric of the
of the year).
Sail of the Bark
Ch'ih-Fun-Jo
Laou
Khi-Foon-Ioh
Sail
Dart of Hairs of
of Ra (Ritual).
Locks of Athor .
Kwan-tu Koun-Tou
Moon
Within the Wall Festival of" Hid-
Hsieh Hsiah Hsiohe Hssa Measure the
den Lintel "
(Ritual).
Fields and Paths
Fields and Regi-
ons
of the Dead.
APPENDIX
TEXTS' FROM THE "BOOK OF THE MASTER " CORROBORATING
MARSHAM ADAMS ' THEORY REGARDING THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN
THE RITUAL AND THE PYRAMID.
i, I . Here begin the Chapters of Entrance on Light.2
i, 2. And of coming forth from and going into the Territory of the
Holy Dead3 in the beautiful Hidden Place.4
i, 4. Homage to thee, 0 Bull of the Hidden Place.8
i, 30. 0 ye who make perfected souls (3 I) enter into the Temple
of Osiris, may ye cause the perfected soul of Osiris, the (32) scribe
Ani, to be victorious with you in the Temple of Osiris. May he hear
as ye hear ; may he see (33) as ye see .
i, 36. 0 ye who open the way (37) and lay open the paths to per-
fected souls in the Temple (38) of Osiris, open ye the way and lay
open the paths (39) to the soul of Osiris Ani .
i, 20.8 Homage to thee, 0 thou who art at the head of the Hidden
Place, thou Osiris . . . Grant that I may arrive in peace in the
Hidden Place and that the lords of the Ascent may receive me .
iv, I . The chapter of making the Sahu , to enter into the Tuat . 8
1 The texts are numbered as in Budge's Book of the Dead, issued in three
volumes, London, 1909, but the renderings will be found to vary from those
there given in certain instances . Roman numerals indicate chapters .
2 PIR M HRu . The pyramid was called " The Light."
8 Khert-Neter. 4 Amentet.
a Bull of Amentet is a common name of Osiris . It is, perhaps, worthy of
note that in the very earliest times the Bull was associated with earth, and
thus with the northern quarter of the heavens. With it, also was connected
much of Lunar symbolism, and in later astrology the moon was said to be
exalted in the constellation Taurus.
6 Turin papyrus.
7
The spiritual body, or the body which has arrived at that stage of power
and knowledge where it was said to beome incorruptible.
8 Chapter xvii (56-7) says " the gate of the Ascent is the northern gate of
the Tuat"
1 8 4
APPENDIX
iv, 2. Homage to thee, 0 thou that dwellest in the Holy Mountain
of the Hidden Place.
ii, i. The Chapter of Entering on Light and of living after death.
Hail, One, shining from the Moon! (2) Hail, One shining from the
Moon! Grant that the Osiris Ani may come forth (from) among
those multitudes which are (3) outside ; and let him be established as
a dweller among the denizens of heaven ; and let the Hidden Places
be opened unto him . And behold, Osiris, (¢) Osiris Ani, shall Enter
on Light.
iv, i . The Chapter of passing over the Celestial Road (2) of
Re-stau, . . . The Osiris Nu, triumphant says : I open out a way
over the Watery Abyss which formeth a path between the two
Combatants.'
viii, i . The Chapter of passing through the Hidden Places (and
Entering) on Light.
ix, i . The Chapter of Entering on Light after having made the
passage through the tomb.
xiii. The Chapter of entering into and coming forth from the
Hidden Place. . May a path be made for me whereby I may
enter in peace into the beautiful Hidden Place ; . . . and may a path
be made for me whereby I may enter in and adore Osiris the Lord
of Life.
xv, z . A hymn of praise to Ra when he riseth upon the Horizons
1 The juncture of the Ascending passage with the Descending passage, it
should be noted, occurs at the level of the fourth course of masonry . The
Celestial Road refers to the Passage of the Star, as Marsham Adams calls the
entrance passage, and Re-stau, as we see in Chapter xvii, is described as " the
northern door of the tomb ."
' The " two Combatants " may here be taken as the two portions of the
Double Hall of Truth, namely Truth in Darkness and Truth in Light. The
" Watery Abyss " is thus, obviously, the Well of Life, which opens downwards
at the junction of these two halls, and thus literally forms a path between
them. At the same time, if we take the two parts of the ascending passage as
forming, in reality, a unity, they become, taken thus together, " a way over
the Watery Abyss ."
s The Horizon is first mentioned in this the fifteenth chapter, and it is
when he reaches the fifteenth course of masonry that the catechumen first
sees this symbol over the entrance . Following the hymn of praise to Ra comes
a Hymn and Litany to Osiris, in the first of which Osiris the Justified One is
alluded to as " the lord of the hidden place." In the Litany the response in
1 8 5
APPENDIX
xvii, i . Here begin the praises and glorifyings of coming out from
and of going into the glorious underworld which is in the beautiful
Hidden Place.'
xvii, 14. I am Yesterday ; I know (t5) To-day.e
xvii, 20. What then is this ? (21) It is the Hidden Place (wherein
were) created the souls of the gods when Osiris was leader in the
Mountain of the Hidden Place .$
xvii, 23 . I know the God who dwelleth therein . (24) Who then is
this ? It is Osiris .
xvii, 38. What then is this ? It is the horizon of his father Tem.4
xvii, 39. What then (40) is this ? It is the cutting off of the cor-
ruptible in the body of Osiris, the scribe Ani.
xvii, 42. It is the purification (of Osiris Ani) on the day of his
birth.5
xvii, 50. I pass over the way, I know the head of the Pool of the
Maati.e
I "j,
i86
THE GOD OF MILLIONS
OF YEARS
each case begins with " O grant thou me a path whereon I may pass in
peace."
After these two there follows a further long hymn to Ra and then a series
of three Hymns to the Setting Sun . In the first of these that deity is addressed
as " Thou (who) openest up the path of the double Lion-God ." In this
connection the reader is referred to the vignette on p . 187.
1 In this text a clear distinction is made between the Underworld and
Amentet, showing how misleading it is to confound the two when translating
the Ritual. This is the seventeenth chapter, and on the seventeenth course is
the entrance. Note that " here begin the praises, etc."
a See the vignette. As Marsham Adams has pointed out, the title " Time-
less One " is the implication contained in " I am Yesterday."
s Set-Amentet.
4 Ra.
s Le. his birth in the Chamber of the Mistress of the Pyramid, the Chamber
of Rebirth.
4 The Well of Life .
RE-STAU
APPENDIX -
xvii, 51. What then is this ? It is Restaul . . . (52) and it is
the northern door of the tomb . Now as concerning (53) the Pool of
the Maati, it is Abtu ; it is the way by which his father (54) Tern
travelleth when he goes forth 'to Sekhet-Aahlu.a
xvii, 56. Now the gate of Tasers is the gate of the Pillars of Shu,
THE GODS OF YESTERDAY
AND TO-DAY .
(57) the northern gate of the Tuat ; or, it is the two leaves of the door
(58) through which the god Tern passeth when he goeth forth to the
Eastern Horizon of Heaven.*
lxiv,b i . The Chapter of Entering on Light in the Under-world .
lxiv, 2. I am Yesterday, To-day and To-morrow, 6 (and I have) the
power (3) to be born a second time? (I am) the divine hidden Soul who
* giveth meals unto the denizens of the Tuat, Amentet and
heavens
1 The Gate. See the vignette. It is a curious coincidence that the artist has
surrounded the actual door itself by exactly seventeen oblong sections, corres-
ponding, to the number of the chapter and also to the number of the course in
which the entrance actually is .
2 The Fields of Aahlu, the Territory of Initiation . We see from the
masonry, as explained by the Ritual, that this is the way by which the soul has
to pass in order to attain illumination .
8 The Ascent. In the papyrus of Auf-Ankh this section reads : " I go from
the Gate of Taser. What is the Gate Taser ? It is the Gate where the God
Shu lifts the disc of Heaven. The Gate of the north is the Gate of the Great
God." See p. 34, note r .
The symbol of the horizon on being over the entrance .
a According to Budge this is probably one of the oldest chapters in the
Ritual. See p. 48, and note i .
s The Dweller in Eternity. Cf. p. 186, note 2 .
7 Cf. p. 186, note 5 .
8 Note the distinction again made between the Underworld (Taut) and
the Hidden Place (Amentet) . Cf. p. 186, note i .
THE "BENNU
"
1 8 7
APPENDIX
Ixiv, 4. I am the Lord of men who are raised up ; (the Lord) who
cometh forth from out of the darkness .
Ixiv, 7. (Hail) Lord of the Shrine which standeth in the middle of
the Earth ., (8) He is I, and I am He .
Ixiv, I o. Make thou thy roads glad for me.
Ixiv, I I . Send forth thy light upon me, 0 Soul unknown, for I am
(one) of those who are about to enter in .
Ixiv, 15. Come thou who (dwellest) above thy divine Abyss of
water.
Ixiv, 1 g. The god Akau$ transporteth me to the Chambers and
(my) nurse is the divine double Lion-God himself.° I am made strong
and I (20) come forth like him that forceth a way through the gate .
. " I know the abysses "5 is thy name.
Ixiv, 42. I am he who Entereth on Light .
lxviii, 2. The doors of heaven are opened for me, the doors of earth
are opened for me.6
lxxi, i . Hail, thou hawk who risest in heaven .7
lxxi, 2. Strengthen thou me according as thou hast strengthened
thyself, and show thyself upon earth,8 0 thou that returnest and with-
drawest thyself.
lxxi, 3. Horus, son of Isis! Strengthen thou me, according as thou
has strengthened thyself, and show thyself upon earth, 0 thou that
returnest and withdrawest thyself.e
, Cf. Note C. p. 166. s Anubis.
8 The Queen's Chamber, the Chamber of Rebirth.
'Shu and Tefnut. The paternity of Amen-Ra himself is here indicated, for
in a hymn quoted by Brugsch (Religion, p . 422) we read : " O Amen-Ra, the
gods have gone forth from thee . What flowed forth from thee became Shu,
and that which was emitted by thee became Tefnut ; thou didst create the
nine gods at the beginning of all things, and thou wast the Lion-God of the
Twin Lion-Gods ."
s The Abysses are what Marsham Adams terms " the Depths ."
6 This alludes to the regenerate Soul, coming forth from the Secret Chamber
(of Rebirth) and taking its seat upon the lower throne above the head of the
Well, between the Chamber of the Orbit and the Chamber of the Shadow .
This is indicated in the previous chapters and in ,gig, 11-13.
7 The hawk is the form taken by the soul of the departed .
8 Return to me.
8 These words, from " strengthen thou me " to " withdrawest thyself"
are used seven times in this chapter .
1 8 8
APPENDIX
lxxxix, i . The Chapter of causing the soul to be united to its body
in the Underworld .,, The Osiris Ani, triumphant, says : Hail, thou
god Anniu!' Hail, thou god Pehrer,6 who dwellest in thy hall! Great
God! Grant thou that my soul may come unto me from wheresoever
it may be.
lxxxix, 7. Hail, ye gods . . . (8) who make souls to enter into
(their) spiritual bodies . . . (I o) grant ye that the soul of Osiris Ani,
(11) triumphant, may come forth before the gods . . . and that it
may have peace in the Hidden Place. (12) May it look upon its
material body, may it rest upon its spiritual body ; and may its body
neither perish nor suffer corruption for ever.'
J
1 89
THE SOUL OF THE DECEASED AS A HUMAN-HEADED BIRD
Cxvii, 2. The paths which are above me lead to Re-stau .5
cxxii, 2. Open unto me! Who then art thou ? Whither goest
thou ? What is thy name ?6
1 The allusion here is to the lower portion of the House of the Hidden
Places.
2 Bringer.
3 Runner.
' The prayer is granted, and, descending the Ladder the soul rejoins the
body as shown in the vignettes.
' These words are spoken when the postulant is in the Chamber of Ordeal,
the lowest chamber of all, at the very bottom of the descending gallery, which
he has to ascend to reach the Hidden Lintel or Gateway to the Hall of the
Maati. The ascent is shown in the vignette to Chapter cxxii.
6 The demand to be admitted to the Hall of the Maati and the preliminary
challenge.
APPENDIX
cxxiii, I . The Chapter of entering into the Great House .,
cxxiv, I . The Chapter of going into the presence of the Divine
Sovereign Princes of Osiris .$
cxxv, I . The Chapter of entering into the Hall of Double Maati .°
cxxv, 2I.' And they say unto me, who art thou then ? and they
say unto me, what is thy name ?
cxxv, 27. Come, then, they say, and enter in through the door of
this Hall of Double Maati .
cxxv, 27 (contd.). We will not let thee enter in through us, say
the bolts of (28) this door, unless thou tellest (us) our names . Tongue
(of the Balance) of the place of right and truth is your name .b
cxx, 2. The heavens are opened, the earth is opened, the West is
opened, the East is opened, the southern half of heaven is opened, the
northern half of heaven is opened .°
clxi, I . The Chapter of forcing an entrance into heaven .7
clxi, 2. Ra liveth, the Tortoise dieth.8
clxi, 3. Sound is he who is in the chest, Osiris triumphant .
clxii, 12.9 This Book is the Greatest of Mysteries. Do not let the
, The Great House, as it is here termed, is a House within a House, though
not in so intimate a sense as the system represented by the Ante-chamber, the
King's Chamber and the Hidden Heights . Nevertheless it is shut off from the
lower system by the granite blocks and the hidden portcullis .
2 The forty-two Assessors. See p. 15 2.
3 The Double Hall of Truth, or the Hall of the Two Truths .
' This is from the third section of the chapter, the Address to the Gods.
5Cf.p. 1 5 1 -
6 The departed has now traversed the Hall of Truth in Darkness and has
reached the " Gateway of Osiris " the threshold of the Hall of Truth in
Splendour, the Chamber of the Orbit. The whole system is now opened up
before him . The " heavens " indicate the Chamber of the Splendour ; the
" earth " the Chamber of the Shadow. The " West " is the head of the
Well, while the " East " stands for the entrance to the Queen's Chamber,
whose significance is rebirth or rising again .
' Having passed through the Chamber of the Orbit, the Illuminate is about
to pass into the " House within a House " and make his way into the King's
Chamber, the Chamber of the Open Tomb .
8 The last veil that obscures the Light is removed . The words quoted are
used four times .
° Rubric .
I9o
APPENDIX
eye of anyone look upon it-that were abomination . The Book of the
Master of the Hidden Places is its name.,,
ADDITIONAL TEXTS FROM LATER PARTS OF THE RITUAL
clxviii, Sect. i, para 5. (I) May those who build up grant that
Osiris N. shall arrive happily in the Hall of Double Truth .
clxviii, Sect. ii, para. 7. (I) May Sesheta Ausar2 grant that Osiris
N. may be a lord of strides in the habitation of the Ascent.
clxviii, Sect . iv, para. 4. (2) And there shall be made an offering
by Osiris N. when he entereth through the hidden pylons .s
cxlviii, Sect. iv, para. 6. (I) May the company of the gods who rule
over the Hidden Place grant that Osiris N . shall go in through the
secret door of the House of Osiris.
cxlviii, Sect. iv, para . 14. (2) And there shall be made . . . an
offering . . . by Osiris N. when he shall walk up the Great Stair-
case.
clxxxvi. Hathor, Lady of the Hidden Place, mighty dweller in the
funeral mountain, lady of the Holy Place.'
It may interest the reader to compare the following quotations from
the Book of Opening of the Mouth .
• And Offerings of incense shall be made to all the gods and
godd
•
esses:
" To Seker5 within his Secret Place.'
"
" To the
•
Great, Secret Doors which are in Annu .'
'To Osiris in the House of the Pyramid .8
,, Marsham Adams also renders this, The Book of the Master of the Secret
House.
2 He who maketk Osiris to be secret.
s Cf. The Book of Opening of the Mouth.
' Marsham Adams would probably have rendered this as " Lady of the
Ascent."
a Osiris was known as Seker in Memphis .
' The Book of Opening of the Mouth, Budge, 2 vole., 1909. Vol. i, p. 115.
' Op. Cit., p. I 18.
-8 Op. cit., p. 118 .
1 9 1
APPENDIX
" To Seker Ausar in the Tuat.
to
" To Seker-Ausar in all his Secret Places ."2
" Homage to thee, 0 Khepera, who art exalted upon thy High
Place, who shinest as the Head of the Obelisk in the Chamber of the
Obelisk, which is in Annu."$
" Homage to thee, Tem ! Homage to thee, Khepera, when thou art
exalted upon the steps, when thou risest on the Obelisk in the House
of the Obelisk .",
1 Op. cit., p. i 18. 2 Op. cit., p. i 19. 8 Op. cit., p. 102 .
* Op. cit., p. 146.
1 92
