{"name":"The Wisdom Of Angels","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1796__swedenborg___the_wisdom_of_angels.pdf","mytitle":"The Wisdom Of Angels","mylang":"de"}
THE
OF
A N. G E L s
CONCERNING THE
DIVINE PROVIDENCE..
.
TRANSLATED FROM THE LATIN
OF THE
' .
HoN. EMANUEL SWEDENBORG.
Originally publifhed at AMSTERD~M, Anno 1764-
= =--
p R I N T E D AT B 0 s T 0 N,
BY ISAIAH THOMASANoEBENEZER T.ANDREWS,
FavsT's STATtJE, No. 45, NEW!lVRY STREET.
ANGELIC WJSDOlvi
CONCERNING THE
DIVINE PROVIDENCE.
. I
•
P H E F A C E.
~.
Vll
It may not be foreign to our prefcnt Pur-
pofe, to take a View of fuch Opinions, Senti-
ments, and Reafonings, that fo the Clearnefs,
Truth, Excellency and Expediency ofour Au-
thor's DoCl:rine in the following wonderful
Treatife may ~he better appear.
And firft, in Regard to Things ?Zatural. If
we look into the \~ritings of the moll: cele-
brated Philofophers of moder!l Times, a very
few Names excepted, \Ve fhall find all the moil
remarkable Phenomena of Nature refolved
into mere mechanical Operations, as if Nature
could of heife!f operate to produce Effects.
\Ve fhall fee chemical Combinations, and the
Compofitions of fubtle Fluids, appealed to, in
Order to account for the feveral Births, Pro-
duai~:ms, and Changes obfervable in the ex-
ternal World and its various Elements. \Ve
!hall fee Divine Mercies and Divine Judg-
ments, as exhibited in temporal Nature,remov-
ed far out of fight, being confounded with the
uncertain and indeterminate Configurations of
Particles ofMatter, which are fuppof.~d capable
offorming fuch Arrangements, ConjunCtions,
and DisjunO::ions, one with another, as to pro-
mote the Bleffing or Mifery of l\hn by an
Agency feparatc from that of the great Crea-
tor. We fhall no longer be led to adore
that invifible \Vorking of the Omnipotent,
who
.
vlii P R E F A C L
who " maketh the Storm a Calm,fo that tht
lVaves thereifare )lilt ; who turneth Rivers
into a !Yildcnufs, and the T1Tatcr-Springs into
dry Ground; a fruitful Land into Barremufl,
for tbe TVickedncjs ifthem that dwelltherein,"
Pfalm cvii. 29, 33, 34 ; but we ihall be led
to tremble under the dreadful Apprehenfions
of an inferior Agent not fubjcct to the Control
of a merciful and all-,.,-ife God. In ihort,
-vve fl1all find a living Power ofAction afcribed
to Things, '"hich in themfelves are dead,
whilfi: the real living Operator, who works
unfecn in and by the feveral SubjeCts of the
material \Vorld, is altogether forgotten, and
his Divine Operation transferred to the Things
operated upon, whereby jeco11d Caufes ufurp
the Place of the Fitjl, and what is merely in-
jlrumental is conceived to be principal. To
infiapce only in the Cafe of Vegetation. \Ve
ihall fee this fimple and manifeft Effect of the
Divine Agency in Nature involved in the ut-
moft Intricacy and Perplexity, through the
Darknefs and Subtlety of vain Reafoning and
Scimce fa!fely fo called; whilft the Changes of
Matter and corporeal Forms alone, have been
regarded as fufficient to explain the wonderful
Phenomenon, and whilft philofophers have
forgotten this plain eternal Truth, that it is
God who "maketb the Grafl togrow for the
Cattle,
P R E F A C E:
PERHAPS there never was a Period in
any Age of the \Vorld, which required
a Vindication and Elucidation of the Divine
Providence of the Lord, more than the pref-
ent. Not that the Divine Providence is at
this Day generally denied in J1Tord, for none
except abfolute Atheifis do this ; but becaufe
it is allowed in fo partial and confined a Man-
ner and Meafure ofOperation, as borders upon
a Denial, and indeed when rightly confidered
is a Denial.
For if we allow a general Providence, and
yet deny a particular one, or if we allow a
particular one, and yet deny a jingu!ar one,
that is, one extending to Things and Circum-
fiances moftjingular and minute, what is this
but denying a gmeral Providence ?
Every reafonable Man confeffes that the Dci-
t y has created and that he preferves the \Vorld
ingeneral; but does not this necefrarily imply
that he has created, and that he preferves all
Things in particular and inji11gular ? And
!hould any one affert that Creation and Prefer-
yation do not thus extend to Thingsparticular
and
.
VI P R E F A C &
and jingular, would not this be a pofi.tive De.
nial of Creation and Prefervation in general,
fince Things ingeneralcannot poffibly be fup-
pofed to be or exift, but in and by Thingspar-
ticular andjiugu!ar.
Tn like Mannet· the Allowance ofa gtneral
Providence ncceffarily implies the Allowance
of a particular and moil: jingular one, and to
deny the latter is manifeftly to deny the for-
mer. It is like ailerting that a human Body
may in general exift, without its particular
l\1embers, Organs, Vifcera, &c. and the Singu-
lars thereof; or that a State or Kingdom may
in general exift, without the feveral particular
Orders and Societies of Perfons who compofe
it, together with the Individuals of each Or-
' d r •
aer an I.)Octety.
Now that a particlllar and Jingu!ar Provi-
dence is at this Day denied, may appear plain
to every con:!iderate Perfon, who attends to
the Opinions, Sentiments, and Reafonings, at
prefent circulating in the \Vorld from the
Books of the Learned, refpetl:.ing the Divine
Operation, which is the fame Thing as the Di-
vine Providence, more particularly in Refer-
ence to the three grand Subjects in this World
of temporal Nature, on which it is exercifed
or employed, viz. Things natural, Thingspo-
litical, and Things moral or fpiritual.
It
p R. . E F A c E•
Cattle, andgreen Herb for the ufe oflvfan,"
Pfalm civ. 14- cxlvii. 8 ; of Confequcncc,
that all Vegetation, both generally and partic-
-
ularly proceeds from a fiJiritual a1:d Divine
Operation in Nature, and that all the Laws
thereof are thus of fpiritual and Divine Ori-
gin, and that materi~l Forms are merely the
Subjects of fuch Operation and of fuch Laws,
which have no Life, and can effeB: no Change
in themfelves, but fo far as they are w'rought
upon by a living Principle above themfelves,
that is to fay, within themfelves;
The Cafe is the fame in Regard to political
Things. \Vhat fcrious Mind can behold,with-
out a Mixture ofindignation and Concern, the '.
Great Author of Nature forgotten, and ban-
ifhed as it were from his .own Kingdoms, in
the Syfiems of modern Policy ? \Vho doth
not tremble to fee Fortune; or human Pru-
dence, or theSagacity and Addrefs ofth~l\llin­
ifi:er ofthe Day, more regarded and depended
upon than the \Vifdorn and Power of Heaven,
whilfi: the Counfels and Sentiments oF ·weak
and erring Statefmen are exalted in many In-=
fiances above Divine Intentions, Purpofes and
Operations ? Yet how plain is it to perceive,
that this is more or lcfs the Cafe in modern
Politics, wherein little Account comparatiYely
is made of that Divine overruling Providence,
l3 ''l1icl1
~ P R E F A C &
which " changeth tbe 'Times and the Seq{olls,
whicb removeth Killgs, and Jetteth up Kings;
whichgivctb J;Vijdom unto theJVife, and Knowl-
edge tothem that kuowUndeJjlanding; u•hich in-
creafeth the Nations,anddejlro)'eth them; which
enlargeth the Nation.r, and jlraitenetb than a•
gaitt?"D~n.ii. 2 I. Jobxii. 23. Forletitbeafked,
In what Politician's Creed at this Day !hall we
find it written, that'( the Kingdom is the Lord's,
andHe is the Governor among the Nations; that
the Battle a!fo is the Lord's; andthat he doetb
accordmg to his rVillin the Army ifHeavm,and
among the lnhabita;Jts qfthe Earth; and that
therefore bytheB!ejjitzg oftheUpright the City is
exalted; but it is overthrown by the Mouth if
the JVicked?" Pfalm xxii.28. I Sam. xvii. 47·
Dan. iv. 35· Prov. xi. 1 I. Or,in other \Vords,
In \vhat Politician's Creed at this Day !hall we
find it aflerted, and maintained as a ruling and
praCtical Principle, that the Profperity of Em-
pires dependsJolely on the Bleffing of Heaven,
and that of Confequence the only fure and cer-
tain\Vay for anyPeople to become profperous,
whether generally or individually, is to fecure
fuch Bleffing, by fulfilling faithfully all the
heavenly Laws of fi:ritt Jufi:ice and Judgment,
Order and Uprightnefs? Rather, is it not an
efl:ablilhed Article of modern political Faith,
that accumulated\Vealth,extenfive Dominion,
numerous
/
.
P R E F A C E. Xl
numerous and powerful Fleets and Armies, a
flourifhing Commerce, an increafing Popula-
tion, Refinement in Tafl:e and Manners, large
and magnificent Cities, Splendor and Parade of
public Shows, a fuperior Subtlety and Sagacity
in private Councils and public Negociations,
are the great confl:ituent Principles of national
Profperity ? That a People in fhort may be
great without beinggood, happy without being
virtuous, Jemre without the Protetl:ion of
Heaven, poweiful without its Power, and wife
without confulting and being guided by the
Fountain of \Vifdom. ·
Lafl:ly, in Regard to moral or Jpiritual
Things ; the ferious and intelligent Mind can-
not but greatly lament to difcern, how the
..Divine Providence and Operation is herein ei-
ther totally rejeCted, or grofsly mifunderfiood,
by the Learned of the prefent Day. Thus
fome would efiabliih a Morality grounded in
mere human Exertions, without any Regard to
Diville Aid, making Virtue thus the Off-
fpring cf Earth, infiead of deducing its
pedigree from Heave~t, whence alone it is to
be derived, according to the Tenor of thefe
\Vords of the eternal Truth, "Without ME ye
, cando Nothing," John xv. 5· And again, ".il
Man can receive Nothi11g, except it begiven him
from Heaven," John m. 27. Others again·
allow
Xll P R E F A C E,
allow ofan occqfionalAid from above, in Ordet•
to affift Man on great and extraordinary Emer..,
gencies, but deny him the Comfort of fuch fu..,
pernatural Influence on common Occafions, and
the ordinary Concerns of Life ; not confider- .
}ng that the " Very Hairs ifthe Head are all
numbered," :Matt. x. '3o; and this both in a
natural and alfo in a fpiritual Senfe ; and that
of Confequcnce every.finallrjl Circumfiance of
I\1an's Life, whether relating toThings tempo-
ral or Things eternal, corporeal or mental, are
alike under the Rule and DireCtion of an all-
·.vife Providence, and regulated thereby.
\Vhilfi fome, by an Error of Unde~fianding
fiill more deplorable and dangerous, acknowl~
edge indeed a DivineAid continually attendant
upon Man,and afcribe to itsOperation all fpir-
itual and moral EffeCts wrought in Man, but
then they allovv of no Limitations to fuch Ope-
n.tion, as srounded in Wifdom and Order;
they make the Divine Agency irre.f!flible and
uncontrollable, ailigning to it an alfolute Power
independent ofthe Free-willofMan, that is, of
l\tlan's Co-operation ; not perceiving how the
Deity mufl: needs be fubjeet to his own Laws ;
and that his Operation therefore mufiofNecef-
fity be limited by that Order which Himfelf
hath appointed ; and that it is an eternal Law
pf this Order that Man fhould co-oper(!!; with
hi~
--------------------·
...
P R 1J F . .A C E. Xlll
his Creator in the \Vark of Regeneration and
Salvation, otherwifc he would be a mere ani-
mal Machine, and not a :Man; and that ofCon-
fequence, for the Deity to force Man's Free-
will, and over-rule the Determinations ther~of
byan arbitraryInfluence,would beto aClagainft
his own Order, that is, againft Himfelf, ''~thich
is a Thing impoffible. Hence fo many Advo-
catesat thisDay for thefhockingand pernicious
DoClrines ofPredtflination, Eleflion, irrif!flible
Grace,'&c. '&c. and hence an almofttotal Dark-
nefs refpeCling the true Nature and lVIanner of
Divine Agency as employed in the Creation,
Refl:oration, and Purification of Man's moral
and fpiritual Mind, and as exercifed·uniform-
ly according to the Determinations of Man's
free-will, and in perfect agreement therewith..
Ifthe above Opinions, Sentiments,and Rea-
fonings refpeCling the Divine Providence and
Opcration,inRegard to Things ?w!ural,j'o!itic-
al, and moral, he well attended to, and Yiewcd
in a clear intelleClual Light, fo that the E{llacy
thereof may be deteCled, and their mi:!chkY-
ous Tendencies noted, in efl:ablifhing a f
a~je
Philqfophy, a dtflrufli·ve Policy, and a m!J!alm
and ill-grounded lvforality, the ferious Reader
will fee abundant Caufe to be thankful, thJt
it hath pleafed the Lord, of his Divine Prov-
1dence, in the following \Vonderful Treatife_
,
to
.
XlV P R E F A C E.
to make a Difcovery to Man at this Day ofthe
Laws of his own Operation, to the Remo-
val of Error in a Matter of fuch infinite Mo-
ment, and to the eftabliiliing the human Mind
in all the Comforts and Certainty of Truth.
He will rejoice alfo to fee it afferted, and pro-
ved by fuch a Weight of fatisfaCl:ory Evi-
dence, that Heaven and Earth are not fo far
a.funder as fome Men would endeavour to
perfuade themfelves, but that this vifible
"\tVorld of Nature, notwithftanding what cer-
tain Philojophers, Politiciam, and Moralifls
may think to the contrary, is in clofe Con-
nexion with the invifible World of Spirit ;
and that all EffeCts produced in the former
have their Origin in Caufes which exift in the
latter, and are ruled and regulated thereby,
being, properly [peaking, Nothing but out-
ward l\1anifeftations of what exifts iwu-'ardly
in another State, Sphere, and Fonn ; fo that all
Principles, Beings, and SubjeCts, whether fpir-
itual or natural, conftitute together a Grand
ON.E)* like Soul and Body, whereof the Dei-
ty
"' In conceiving of this Grand ONE, the reader is earneftly cau-
tioned againft falling into the dangerous Error of Spinoza and his
Followers,who, feeing that all Things muft needs have Connexion
·with the Deity, as the fole Fountain ofall Life, afferted this ONE·
nefs ofall Things in the Deity, but then not diftingui!hing aright
between the Creature and Creator, between the Life of the former
as a receivedLife, and thereby capable of Perverfion, and the Life
()[the latter as [elf-originating, and thereby altogether pur~ from
Evil
PREFAC.i!.. XV
ty is the central and only Source of Life, and
thereby the great Operator, Regulator, Pro-
vider, and Preferver, of and in the Whole.
And if he be a Stranger to the other "T\'Vri-
tings of our· enlightened Author, having
through Prejudice of public Opinion, or other
external Caufes, been led to judge unfavour-
ably concerning them, he vvill not fail to cor-
reB: fuch Judgment, and to feek a more inti-
mate Acquaintance with the DoB:rines con-
tained in thofe \Vritings, whilft he reads in the
following Pages fuch a Vindication and Eluci-
dation ofthe \Vays ofthe Divine Operation, as
perhaps was never heretofore difcovered to
Man; and efpecially whilfl: he obferves that
the whole is grounded in the infallible Vvord
of God, and confirmed by Reafonings of a
found Philofophy, as well as by Experience of
a fupernatural and extraordinary Kind ; the
whole fuggefting to the ferious Mind the
grandeft and moft juft Ideas of the Divine Na-
ture, Attributes, Intentions, Purpofes, and Pro-
vifions in Regard to Man, and calculated in
all RefpeCl:s to lead Man to a deep Veneration
of
Evil of Pervedion, they thus made the b!e!'fed and holy Creator
in FaCt the Author ofEvil. Again!! this dre~_dful and perniciou~
Doctrine, the Difcoveries and Reafonings contained in the follow·
ing Treatife, and in that on the Divine L?vr andthe Divine lVifdom,
refpeCl:ing the feveral Degrees of Life, and the Origin of Evil, or
perverted Life, will be found perh:tps to be the moil: powerful An-
tidotes ever made known unto 1\hn.
..
.
XVl P R E F A l C EA
ofthe great Author of his Being, and a Fulfil•
ment of the pure Laws ofhis Order and King-
dom, to which all Things tend, and for which
they were created, by peifel1ing Holinefi in his
chafte Fear and Love. ·
Neither, if he be one of a fincere and hum-
ble Mind, who reads not in the Spirit of idle
Curiofity, or ofcritical Examination, or ofnice
and fupercilious Judgment; but to attain folid
\Vifdom, for the right Regulation of his Life,.
vvill he be offended at meeting in the following
Treatife with fome Things,which may feem to
contradiCt his own favourite Opinions, and ap-
pear at firft Sight obfcure and perplexing, inaf-
much as his Humility and Sincerity will teach
him, that Nothing doth in general fo contra-
diu Nian's natural and favourite Opinions as
Truth, and that all the grandeft and pureft
Truths of Heaven muft needs feem obfcure
and perplexing to the natural Man at firft
View, until his intelleCtual Eye becomes ac-
cuftomed to the Light,and can thereby behold
it with SatisfaCtion. He will not therefore
hqflif.y rejeD:whathe does not immediate/.;' com-
prehend,or whatat firil:Sightdazzles and there-
by darkens his Sight, but waiting patiently for
the Light tofirengthenhis intelleCtualFaculties
and thereby to clear itfelf, and from the Beauty
ofwhat he does.underftand, being led to think
favourably
P R E F A C E. XYll
favourably of what at prefe.nt he does Not, and
to hope that he may underftand it at a future
time, and.upon a further Reading and C_onfid-
eration, he will be cautious of paffing rafh
Cenfure, and will rather judge not at all th:m
judge unrighteous Judgment.
It muil: be confefled there are fomc Partic-
ulars in the following Treatiie, ·which will of
Neceffity appear ftrange at firfi: Perufal to the
Reader who has not been prep:ued for their
Reception by a previous Acquaintance vvith
the Author's other \Vritings, and which he is
therefore advifed to pafs over for the prefent,
until he has Leifure to acquire fuch Acquaint-
ance. But every candid and intelligent Per-
fen will be forced to acknowledge, th::tt there
are other Particulars relative to the myHcrious
Operationyf the Divine Providence elucidat-
ed,which~y their Plainnefs mufi con-d.ncc,::md
by their Importance mufi greatly intereft eve-
ry human Mind. Such are the Difcoveries
refpetl:ing the Origin, the Permij/ion, and alfo
the Remijfion, or RemovalofEvil; the Coniid-
erationofwhichSubjects hath fo long involved
the learned \Vorld in Perplexity and Darknefs:
And had the Author been filent on all other
Points, thefe Difcoverics alone :1rc fufficient to
fian:ip an eternal Value on the following Trea-
C tiie
XVlll P R E F A C E.
tife in the l\1inds ofthe well-difpofed, by lead--
ing them to a more awful Adoration of the fe._
cret \Vifqom and deep Councils ofthe merci-
ful God in RefpeCl: to his infirm and finfd
Creatures.
The Re2.dcr who is acquainted with the
other various and infi.ru8.:ive \Vritings of our
enlightened Author, and who has profited by
them through a faithful Application of the
bright evangelical Truths contained therein, to
the Reformation and Purification of his Life,
will be delighted to fee thofe Truths further
extended and confirmed, and their Harmony
preferYed and heightened, in the following
Treatiie. He will be led hereby to proftrate
himfelf in moredevout Suhmiffion and Thank-
fulnefs before the God of unchangeable Love
~mel \Vifdom, who hath' been pleafed in thefe
latter Days· to vindicate the \Vays of his Deal-
ings with his Children in aH Ages,and amongft
all Pe,ople, Nations and Languages, and to vifit
them with iikh a clear and cheering Light of
his eternal Truth for Comfort and DireCl:ion.
He will apply this Light to the immediate
Regul<.tion of his Life, in the exterminating all
thoie eYil Principles and falie Perfuafions, for
which it was given, that f.o he may become a
renewed Image and Likenefs ofthe great Crea.
tor
P R E F A C E, Xi'X
tor and Redeemer, according to the Order of ,
his heavenly Kingdom, for the eternal Inherit-
ance of which he and every Child of Adam
is predeil:inated, and to which, therefore, he
may moft affuredly attain, if it be not his own
Fault. He will be careful either of fuffoca-
,
ting, extinguifhing, or perverting the heav-
enly Dourine with \Yhich he has been fa-
voured, whether by falfe and partial Interpre-
tation, or by impure Mixture with pre-con-
ceived Opinions, or, what is mofi to be dread-
ed, by refiing in a mere Illumination of his
pnderfianding, unattended with a Conformity
ofthe\Vill and Life,through an entire Submif:.
fion ofall his vital Principles to the Guidance
and DireCtion of the heavenly Light.
And whilft he is thus cautious to preferve the
Truth pure and undefiled in his own l\1ind
and Life, and to render it fruitful in all Love
and Charity, and the good \Vorks and ufeful
Purpofes tht;;ncc flowing, he will be greatly
zealous to impart it, and make it known unto
his Brethren ; but then his Zeal herein will be
tempered with the utmoil: Meeknefs, Madera-·
tion and Difcretion ; it will be free from all
Violence, and that falfe and dangerous Fire
of Enthufi.afm and Fanaticifm, whofe infernal
Ground and IIJ.ifchievous T endencics are fo
frequently
XX r R E ~ A C Eo
frequently pointed out in the DoCtrine which
he has received and is defirous to recommend.
He will remember his Lord's InjunB:ions to
his Difciples, to caft the Net on " .the right Side
'ofthe Ship," John xxi. 6 ; and not to " cqfl
their Pearls before Swine," Matt. vii. 6 ; and
he will confider hirnfelf as firidly bound to
follow thefe InjunCtions, by being cautious 011
the one Hand, bow he fpeaks, and on the o~h­
er to 'U)bom he fpeaks, in Commendati~:m ofthe
Truths which he himfelf has imbibed. Thus .
he will be taught to go forth amongfi: his
Brethren in a Spirit ofthe utmofi: Charity and
Prudmce, tolerating their imperfeCt States of
Life, not endeavouring toforce but to draw,
cheriJhing the heavenly Principle of Good iq
all, and having more Refpeelat all Times there-
to, than to any Form or :Mode of fpeculative
Opiniom feparate therefrom, howfoever excel-
lent and heavenly in itfelf: And this ~e will
do under a full Perfuafion, that. all will be
judged hereafter, and accepted or rejeeted,not
according to the Light they have received, but
according to their Faithfitlnefi and Obedience
t~_ereto. Thus may he hope to catch many
with the evangelical Net of the Lord's new
Kingdom, whilfi: he preffes upon them aRe-
ception of the Tr~th O"!Jt of a p-ure Regard to
their
•
.
P R. E F A C E. XXl
their eternal Good, and convinces them ofthe
Power and Profitablenefs thereof, by the Effect
it has had on his own Life and Converfation,
in making him a real Chriftian, and a true
Child of God.
That all who read this, and the other excel-
lent Writings ofour Author,rnay be led to pro-
fit by them in their own Lives, and thereby
to recommend them to others, to the prepa-
ring a Way for the Lord's glorious Appearing
according to tiie PrediCtions of his Prophets,
and helping f~rward the Defcent of the Hoi;,
City the New :Jemfalem, that fo '' the Tabenza-
cle ofGod may be with Men, andhe may dwell
with them, and tbey may be his People, and he
may be their God," Rev. xxi. 3, is the fincere
J?rayer of the Editors.
AMEN.
-----
C 0 NT EN T S.
·----
THAT the Di,vinc Providence is the Govern-
- ment ofthe Divine Love and the Divine W!f-
dom oftbc Lord
I. That the Univerfe with all and every
Thing therein was created ou't of the Divine
Love by the Divine Wifdom
II. That the Divine Love and the Divine
Wifdom proceed as One from the Lord
III. That this One is in ·a certain Image in
every cre~ted Thing
IV. That it is of the Divine Providence,
that every created Thing in the Whole and in
Part fhould be fuch a One, and if it is not, that
it fhould be made fa
V. That the Good of Love is not Good,
except fa far as it is united with the True of
Wifdom ; and that the True of \Vifdom is not
True, except fa far as it is united to the Good
No.
1
7
of Love ro
VI. That the Good of Love, not united to
the true of \Vifdom, is not Good in itfelf, but
that it is apparent Good ; and that the True
of Wifdom, not united to the Good of Love,
is not True in itfeH~ but that it IS apparent _
Truth 14
VII. That
xxiv C 0 N T E N T S.
VII. That the Lord doth not fuffer any
Thing to be divided ; wherefore it mufl either
be in Good, and at the fame Time in Truth,
or in Evil, and at the fame 'time in the
Falfe 16
VIII. That rhat which is in Good and at
the .fame Time in Truth, is Something ; and
~ that that which is in Evil and at the fame Time
in the Falfe, is not any Thing _ 19
IX. That the Divine Providence of the Lord
caufeth Evil and its attendant Falfe to ferve
for Equilibrium, Relation, and Purification,
and thereby for the ConjunB:ion of Good and
Truth in others
That the Di-vine Providence ofthe Lord hathfor
its End a Heaven out ofthe human Race
I. That Heaven is ConjunB:ion with the
I.ord
II. That Man by Creation is fuch, that he
can be nearer and nearer conjoined to the
Lord ·
III. That Man, in Proportion as he is more
nearly conjoined to the Lord, in the fame Pro-
portion becometh wifer
IV. That Man, in Proportion as he is more
nearly conjoined to the Lord, in the fame. Pro-
portion becometh happier
21
2 ..
I
3i -
V. That ·Man, in Proportion as he is r:nore
nearly conjoined to the Lord, in the fame
Proportion appeareth to himfelf more diflinB:ly
to be his own, and perceiveth more evidently
that he is the Lord's 42
That
c 0 N T E N ·.r s. XXV
That the Dhine P.rorvidence of tl·e Lord, in
all which it doeth, bath Rejpert to 'Wbat is
byinite and Eternal 46
I. That what is Infinite in itfelf and Eternal
in itfelf, is the fame with \vhat is Divine 48
II. That what is Infinite and Eternal in
itfelf, cannot but h<we Refpetl: to what is lnfi:
nite from itfelf in Finites 52
III. That the Divine Providence, in all th:!t
it doeth, hath Refpea to what is Infinite and
Eternal from itfelf, efpecially in faving the
human Race 55
IV. That an Image of what is Infinite and
Eternal is extant in the Angelic Heaven 6o
V. That to refpea what is Infinite and
Eternal in forming the Angelic Heaven, that
1r may be before the Lord as one Man, which
is his Image, Is the Intimum of the Di\·ine
Providence .. 64
That the Laws of the Divine Providence are
what are unknown to Men. 7g
That it is a Law ofthe Di·vine Providence, that
Man jhould aB from Liberty according to
Reafon 71
I. That M:m hath Reafon and Free-wiii, or
Rationality and Liberty ; and that thefe two
Faculties are from the Lord in Man 73
II. That whatfoever a Man doeth from Lib~
erty, whether it be of Reafon or not.of Reafon,
provided it be according to his Reafon, appear-
eth to him as his own 74
III. That
D
XXV~ c 0 N T E N T s.
III. That whatfoever Man doeth from Lib-
erty according to his Thought, is appropriated
No.
to him as his own,.and remaineth 78
IV. That Man by thefe t\vo Faculties is re-
formed and regenerated of the Lord ; and that
\?ithout them he cannot be reformed and re-
generated 82
V. That Man, by Means of thefe two Fac-
ulties, can be fo far reformed and regencr<l.ted,
as he can by them be led to acknowledge, that
all the Truth, and all the Good, which he
thinketh and doeth, is from the Lord, and not
from himfelf 87
. VI. That the ConjunCtion of the Lord with
Man, and the reciprocal ConjunCtion of Man
with the Lord, is effected by thefe two Facul-
ties 90
VII. That the Lord preferveth thcfe two
Faculties in Man inviolable, and as facred in
every Progreffion of his Divine Providence 96
VIII. That therefore it is of the Divine Prov-
idence, that Man fhould aCt: from Liberty ac-
cording to Reafon fJ7
That it is a Law of the Divine Providence<~ tbat
N!an, as from hill!fe!f, jhould remo'!Je Evils as
Sins in tbe external Man, and that thus, and
720 otherwife, the Lord can remcve Evils in the
internal J\.1an, and then at th~ fame CJ'ime in
the ExtErnal I oo
I. That every Man hath an External and an
Internal Principle of Thought 103
ll. That
C 0 N T E N T S. :{.'>:vii
II. That the External Principle of the
Thought of Man 1
is in itfelf fuch as his
No.
Internal is . I o6
III. That the Internal cannot l1e purified
from the Concupifcences of Evil, fo long as
Evils in the external Man are not removec!,
becaufe they obftrua • 1 I r
IV. That evils in the external Man cannot
be removed by the Lord but by Means of
Man 114
V. That therefore Man ought to remove
E viis from the external Man as from himfelf I 18
VI. That the Lord then purifieth Man from
Concupi[cences in the internal Man, and from
Evils thcmfelves in the external I I 9
VII. That it is the Continuum [continual En-
deavour] of the Divine Providence of the Lord,
to join Man to himfelf, and himfelf to Man,
that he may be able to give him the Felicities
of eternal Life ; which cannot be done, but in·
Proportion as Evils with their Concupifcences
are removed I :23
That it is a Law ofthe Divine Providence, that
]'v!ar. be notforced by external MMns to think
and will, andfo to belie1.1e and love the Things
which are of Religion ; but tbat Mtxn lead,
andfometimes force bimfllfto it ,I 29
I. That no one is reformed by Miracles and
Signs, becaufe they force
II. That no one is reformed by Vifions, and
by conyerfmg with the Dead, becaufe they
force • 134
III. That
l=xviii C 0 N . T E N T S.
No,
III. That no one is reformed by Threats
and Punifhments, becaufe t~ey force 136
IV. That no one is reformed in States of
Non-Rationality, and of Non-Liberty 138
V. That it is not contrary to Rationality and
Liberty for lVlan to force himfelf 145
VL That the external Man is to be reform-
ed by the internal, and not vice verfi 150
That it is a Law of the Divine Providence, that
A1an be led and taught of the Lord out of
Heaven by the Word, and by Doflrine and
Prcachings derived from the Word, and this
in all Appearance aJ· from hin!felf I 54
I. That Man is led and taught of the Lord
only 155
II. That Man is led and taught of the Lord
alone, through the Angelic Heaven, and out
of it 162
III. That Man is led of the Lord by Influx,
and taught by Illumination 165
IV. That Man is taught of the Lord by the
Word, and by Doarine and Preachingsderived
from the Word, and thus immediately from
him alone ,.. 171
V. That Man in Externals is led and taught
of the Lord to all Appearance as of himfelf I 74
That it is a Law of the Dh,ine Providence, that
Man jhould not perceive andfeel any Thing of
the Operation ofthe Divine Providence, but yet
jhould know and acknowledge it .. • 17S
I. That
C 0 N T E N T S. xxtt·
I. That if Man perceived ·and felt the Ope-
ration of the Divine Providence, he would not
act from Liberty according to Reafon, neither
would any Thing appear to him as from him.
felf, or as his own. The fame would be the Cafe
if Man foreknew Events
II. That if Man manife~ly faw the Divine
Providence, he would interfere with the Order
and Tenor of it~ Progreffion, and would per-
vert and defl:roy it
III. "l'hat if Man manifefl:ly,faw the Divine
Providence, he would either deny God or
make himfelf a God
IV. That it is given Man to fee the Divine
Providence on the Back and not in the Face,
alfo in a fpiritual State, and not in his natural
State
That felf-derived Prudence i.r Nothing, and only
appears as if it was, and a!fo ought fo to ap-
pear ; but that the Divine Providence from
No.
t8o
Things the mqfl particular is unh;eifal 191
I. That all the Thoughts of a Man are from
the Affections of his Life's Love, and that there
do not, neither can exifi:, any Thoughts at all, '
without them 193
II. That the Affecrions of a Man's Life's
Love are known to the Lord only I 97
III. That the Affecrions of the Life's Love
of Man are led of" the Lord through his Di-
vine Providence, and then at the fame Time
his Thoughts, from which human Prudence is
derived Mo
IV. That
't.X% C 0 N T E N T S.
IV. That the Lord by his Di'\ine Providence
compofcth the Affections into one Form, which
No.
is Human 201
V. That Heaven and Hell are in fuch a
Form 204
VI. That they who have ad;::nowledged Na-
ture alone, and human Prudence alone, confii-
tute Hell, and they who have acknowledged
God and his Divine Providence, confiitute
Heaven 205
VII. That all thefe Things cannot be done
unlefs it appears to Man that he thinketh and
difpofeth from himfelf 2 ro
Tbat the Divine Providence hath Rifpea to
'lhings cternal, and no otherw!fe to temporary
Things, thanJoJar as tbey accord with Things
eternal 214
l. That temporary Things relate to Digni-
ties and Riches, therefore to Honours and
Emoluii?-ents in this \Vorld 2 I 5
II. That Things eternal relate to fpiritual
Honours and Riches, which are of Love and
\Vifdom in Heaven 216
III. That Things temporary and eternal are
fr-parated by Man, but that they are joined by
the Lord · 218
IV. That the Conjunction of Things tem-
porary and eternal in Man is the Divine Provi-
dence of the Lord :::20
C 0 N T E N T S.
That Man is not let more interiorly into tbe
Truths ofFaitb and the Goods if Charity, thall
fo far as be can be kept in them :o the E_nd of
Life
I. That Man may be let into the vVifdom
of fpiritual Things, and alfo into the Love of
them, and_yet not be reformed
II. That if 1\hn afterwards recedes from
them, and runs counter to them, he profaneth
what is holy
III. That there are feveral Kinds of Profa-
nations of what is holy, and that this Kind is
the worfl: of all
IV. That therefore the Lord doth not let
Man more interiorly into the Truths of \Vif-
dom, and at the fame Time into the Goods of
Love, than fo far as he can be kept in them to
the End of Life
xxxi
No.
Z2I
226
229
That the Laws ofPermijfion a!fo are Laws of
the Di·vine Providence 234
I. Why it was permitted, that Adam the
wifeft ofMen, and his Wife fuffered themfelves
to be feduced by the Serpent, without God's
preventing it by his Divine Providence 24I
II. That their firft-born Son, Cain, flew his
Brother Abel, and God did not prevent it by
fpeaking to him, but only curfed him dter the
AB: 242
III. That the Ifraelitifh Nation· wodhipped
a golden Calf in the Wildernefs, and acknowl-
edged it as the God which brought them out
of the Land of Egypt; when ntverthelefs Je-
hovah
xxxu C 0 N T E N T S.
hovah faw this from Mount Sinai not far off,
and did not prevent it
IV. That David numbered the People, and
therefore a Pefl:ilence was fent among them,
whereby fo many Thoufands of Men perifhed,
and that God did not fend the Prophet Gad
to him before the ACt, but after it, to denounce
Punilhment
V. That Solomon was permitted to efi:abli!h
idolatrous \Vorfhip
VI. That it was permitted many Kings after
Solomon to profane the Temple and holy
Things of the Church
VH. That that Nation was permitted to
crucify the Lord
That every ·worjhipper of bin!fe!J and of Natw't
corifinnetb hill!ft!j agailYt the Divine Provi~
cfozcfl,
I. \\Then he feeth fo m:1ny impious Perfons
in the \Vorld, and fo many Impieties commit-·
ted by them, and at the fame Time that fame
glory in them, and yet that they are not follow-
f .
247
ed by any Punifhment from God 249'
II. ·When he feeth the Impious promoted
to Honours, and made Nobles and Primates ;
moreover that they abound in \Vealth, and
live fumptuoufly and magnificently, whilfl: the
Vvorfhippers of God are in Contempt and
Poverty ·
III. \Vhen he thinketh how Wars are per-
mitted, and thereby fa many Men fiaughtered,
and their Poffeffions plundered zsr:
IV. When
t 0 N T E N T S. xxxiii
lV; When he thinketh that ViCtories de-
dare on the Side of Prudence, and fometimes
not on the Side of Jufl:ice, &c.
'I'bat the merely natural Man conjirmeth Nmft!f
agairyl the Divine Pro·vidence,
I. \Vhen he confiders the Religions of \'a;.
tious Nations, that there are fame who are to~
tally ignorant of a God, fome who. worn1ip the
Sun, the Moon, Idols, &c.
II. \Vhen he conf1ders the Mahometan Re-
ligion, how it is received by fo many Empires
and Kingdoms
III. \Vhen he fees that the Chrifl:ian Relig-
ion is received only in the fmaJlefl ~arter of
the habitable Globe, calied Europe, and there
divided
IV, Becaufe in many Kingdoms, where the
Chrifl:ian Religion is received, there are fome
who claim to themfelves Divine Power, and
who invoke dead Men
V. Becaufe among thofe who profefs the
Chrifl:ian Religion, there are fame who place
Salvation in certain Words which they are to
think and fpeak, and not in any Good they
are to do
255
2 57
VI. Becaufe there have been, and fl:ill are
fo many Herefies in the Chriflian vVorld, 'fuch
as thofe of the <:zyakers, Moravians, Anabap-
tifl:s, and others 259
z6o
Tbat
VII. Becaufe Judaifm fiill continues
E
,..
xxxiv C 0 N T E N T S.
No.
That a Doubt may be inferred agaif!fl the Divine
Providence 26~
I. By Reafon that the whole Chrifiian
i.Vorld wor!hippeth God under three Perfons,
which is three Gods ; and that heretofore they
did not know that God is One in Perfon and
in Effence, and that that God is the Lord 262
II. Becaufe heretofore it was not known,
that in every Particular of the Word there is
a fpiritual Senfe, and that its Holinefs confifl:s
therein z6+
III. Becaufe heretofore it was not known
that the very Effence of the Chrifiian Religion
confifis in fhunning Evils as Sins z6s
. IV. Becaufe it was not known heretofore,
that Man liveth after Death ; and this was not
difcovered till now 274-
That Evils are permitted fir a certain End,
wbich End is Salvation 2 7S
I. That every Man is in Evil, and that he
is to be withdrawn from Evil that he may be
reformed 277
II. That E viis cannot be removed except
they appear · 27S
Ill. That in Proportion as Evils are remm·-
ed, in the fame Proportion they are remitted 279
IV. That thus the permiffion of Evil is for
a certain End, which End is Salvation 28 r
'Ibat the Di'I.Jine Providence rs alike 'With the
Wicked as with the GQod 285
L That
C 0 N T E N T S. ·xxxv
I. That the 'Divine Providence, not only
with the Good, but alfo with the \:Vic'ked, is
univerfal in Things the moft particular, and
No.
that fl:ill it is not in their Evils 287
II. That the \Vicked continually lead them-
felves into Evils, but that the Lord continually
leadeth them out of Evils . 295
III. That the \:Vicked cannot be ,entirely led
out of Evils by the Lord, and led into Goods,
fo long as they think felf.derived Intelligence is
All, and the Divine Providence Nothing 297
IV. '1 hat the Lord governs Hell by Oppo-
fites, and that the "Wicked who are in the
\Vorld he go\'erns in Hell as to Interiors, but
not as to "
Exteriors 299
'That tbe Divine Pro'Lwence neither appropriates
Evil nor Good to any one, but that fe!f-deri-
ved Prudence appropriates both 308
I. \Vhat felf-derived Prudence is, and what
lhat Prudence which is not felf-derived 310
II. That Man fror.1 felf-derived Prudence
perfuades himfelf, and confirms himfelf in the
Idea, that every Good and Truth is in himfelf,
and from himfelf, and in like Manner every
evil and falfe Principle
III. That every Thing of which a Man is
perfuaded, and in which he is confirmed, re-
mains as if proper to him, or becomes his Pro-
prium or l 1roperty
IV. That if 1\Ian would believe, what is the
Truth, that every Thing good and true is from
"1'7
.) '
the Lord, and e,·ery Thing evil and falfe is
· from
from Hell, he would neither appropriate Good
to himfelf, and make it meritorious, nor would
he appropriate Evil to himfelf, and mak~ him-
felf guilty of it
~
That every l\1an may be reforr:zed, and that
there is no fuch 'Thing as Prede.flination
l. That the End of Creation is a Heaven
322
put of the human Race 323
II. Th2.t thence it is of the Divine Provi- ·
dence, that every Man is ~apable of being
faved, and that they are faved who acknowl-
edge a God and lead a good Life 325
III. Thj.t it is a Man's own Fault, if he is
not faved 327
IV. That thus all are predefiined to Heav-
en, and none to Hell .. · 329
"'hat the Lord cannot aa againfi the Laws of
the Divine Providence, becaife to aB againfi
them, would be to aB agaif!ft his Divine Love
a_nd his Divine W!fdom, cor!fequently agai'!ft
hin!felf .. 33t
•I. That the Operation of the Divine Provi-
dence, in faving Man, begins at his Birth, and
continues to the End of his Life, and after-
wards to Eternity 332
JI. Th'at the Operation of the Divine Provi~
clence is continually effeaed by Means out of
pure Mercy 335
III. That momentaneous Salvation from im-
plediate Mercy is not poffible 338
ANGELIC
ANGELIC WISDONI
CONCERNING THE
DI\liNE PROVIDENCE.
That the Divine Providence is the Gov...
ernment of the Divine Love and the.
Divine Wifdom qf the Lord.
I· IN Order that it may be underfiood ·what the
Divine Providence is, and that it is the Gov-
ernment of the Divine Love and the Divine \Vif-
dom of the Lord, it is of Importance that what
hath been before faid and fhewn concerning the Di-
vine Love and the Divine Wifdom, in the Treatife on
that SubjeCt, !hould be Jmown, which is as follows.
That in the Lord the Divine Love is of the Divine,
\Vifdom, and the Di,,ine \Vifdom is of the Divine
Love, n. 34 to 39· That the Divine Love <lnd
the Divine Wifdom cannot but be and cxifl in
other Things created from itfelf, n. 47 to 5r.
That all Things in the Univerfe were created
from the Divine Love and the Divine \Vifdom,
n. sz, 53' 15I to I s6. That all Things in the
Univerfe are Recipients of the Divine Love an.d
the Divine \Vifdorn, n. 54 to 6o. That the Lord
appears
.38 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
appears before the Angels as a Sun, and that the
Heat thence proceeding is Love, and the Light
thence proceeding is Wifdom, n. 83 to 88, 89 to gz,
93 to 98, 296 to 301. That the Divine Love and
the Divine Wifdom, which proceed from the Lord,
make one, n. 99 to I oz. · That the Lord fro1Tl
Eternity, who is Jehovah, created the Univerfe and
all ] hings therein from Himfelf, and not from
Nothing, n. 282 to 284, zgo to 295· Thefe are
the Contents of the Treatife, which is called The
\:VifJom of the Angels concerning THE DIVINE
LovE AND niE DIVINE \VrsDoM.
::. From thefe Particulars, compared with what
was defcribed concerning Creation i'n that Treatifc,
it r.1ay indeed appear, that it is the Government of
the Divine Love and the Divine Wifdom of the
Lord which is called the Divine Providence; but
forafmuch as Creation was there treated of, and
not the Prefervation of the State of Things after
Creation, which lafl: is the Government of the Lord,
therefore we Ihall now treat on this Subjetl:; be-
ginning this firfi: Article with confidering the Pref-
ervation of the Union of the Divine Love and the
J?ivine Wifdom, or of the Divine Good and the
Di\'ine Truth, in the Things which are created; of
which we ihall fpeak in this Order : I. That the U-
;-~iverfe, with all and every Thing therein, was cre-
~ted out of the Divine Love by the Divine Wifdom.
H. That the Dirine Love and the Di\·ine \Vifdom
prcceed :::s One from the Lord. III. That this One
is in a certain Image in every created Thing. IV.
That it is of the Divine Providence,'that every crea~
ted 'l b.ing in the Whole and in Part !houl4 be fuch
a One;
THE DIVINE PROVIDf.NCE. 39
a One ; and if it is not, that it flwuld be maJe fo.
V. That the Good of Love is not Good, except fo
far as it is united to the True of Wifdom ; and that
the True of vVifdom is not True, except fo far as it
is united to the Good of Love. VI. That the Good
of Love not united to the True of \Vifdom is not
Good in itfelf, but that it is apparent Good, and
that the True of Wifdom not united to the Good of
Love is not True in itfelf, but that it is apparent
Truth. VII. That the Lord doth not fuffer any
Thing to be divided, wherefore it mufl: either be in
Good and at the fame Time in Truth, or it mufl: be
.in Evil and at the fame Time in the Falfe. VIII.
That that which is in Good and at the fame Time
in Truth, is Something, and that that which is in
Evil and at the fame Time in the Falfe, is not any
Thing. IX. That the Divine Providence of the
Lord caufeth Evil and its attendant Falfe to ferve
for Equilibrium, Relation, and Purification, and
thereby for the Conjunf£ion of Good and Truth in
others.
3· I. That the Univerfe, with all and every Thing
therein, was created out ofthe Divine Love by the Di-
vine Wifdom. That the Lord from Eternity, who,
is Jehovah, is as to his Effence Divine Love and
Divine \:Vifdom; and that He out of Himfeli ere~
ated the Univerfe and all Things therein, was iliewn
in the Treatife concerning THE DIVINE Lon: AXD
THE DIVINE \VISDOM; thence it followeth, that
the Univerfe with all and every Thing therein wa&
created out of the Divine Love by the Divine \Vif~
dom. In the above-mentioned Treatife it was a!fo
1hewn, that Love without Wifdom cannot do any
Th •
••mg,
40 ANOELIC VhsooM cONCE'RNING
Thing, neither Wifdom without Love; for .Love·
without \Vifdom, or the \;Vill without the Under.;
fianding, cannot think any Thing, yea it cannot fee
and be fenfible of any Thing, nor difcourfe on any
Thing ; wherefore neither can Love without \Vif-
Jom, or the \Vill without the Underfianding, do
any Thing ; in like Manner Wifdom without Love~
or the Underftanding without the \Viii, cannot think
any Thing, neither can it fee and be fenfible of any
Thing, yea ne~ther can it difcourfe on any Thing ;
wherefore \Vifdom without Love, or the Under.;
Handing without the vVill, cannot do any Thing;
for if Love is taken away herein, there is no longer
any Volition [aliquod velle], confequently there is
not any ACtion [ aliquod agere]. And as this is the
Cafe with Man when he doeth any Thing, much
more was it the Cafe with God, who is Love itfelf
and \Vifdom itfelf, when he created and made the
Univerfe and all Things therein. That the Uni-
verfe, with all and every Thing appertaining to it,
was created out oftheDivineLove by theDivine \Vif-
dom, may be confirmed from all Things which are
Objects of Sight in the \Vorld: Take only any
ObjeCt in particular, and examine it with fome De-
gree of vVifdom, and you will be confirmed ; take
a Tree, or its Seed, or its Fruit, or its Flower, or
its Leaf, and colleCt Wifdom in yourfelf, and view
it with a good Microfcope, and you will fee wonder-
ful Things, whilfr the Interiors, which you do not
fee, are frill more wonderful : Examine the Order
in its Succeffion, whereby a Tree from the Seed
groweth till it produceth new Seed; and confider
whether there be not in all the Succeilion a contin...
ual
THE DIVINE PROYID.E.NCE. 41
'-tal Endeavour to propagate itfelf further, for the
Ultimate to which it tends is Seed, in which iu
prolific [Principle] exifl:s anew. If then you ,vill
alfo think fpiritually, (and this you can do if you
will) will you not fee Wil<.lom herein? efpeci2IIy if
you will fo far think fpiritually, that this Effef.t is
not from the Seed; nor from the Sun of this \Vorld,
which is pure Fire, but that it is in the Seed from
God the Creator who hath infinite WifJom ; anLl
in it not only then when it ·was created, but alfo
continually afterwards; inafmuch as Support is per-
petual Creation, as Subfifl:ence is perpetual Exifl.:-
ence: For as the Work ceafeth, if you take away
\Viii from Aaion, or if you take away Thought
from Speech, Speech ceafeth ; or if you take away
l:ndeavour from Motion, Motion ceafeth; fo, in
like Manner, if you take away the Caufe from the
Effef.t, the EffeCl: perifheth, and fo on. Every crea-
ted Subfl.:ance indeed is endued with Power [Vis],
but Power doth not do any Thing ftom itfelf, but
from him who hath endued it with •Power. Exam-
ine alfo any other Subjef.t on Earth, as a Silk-\Vorm,
a Bee, or any other Infea, and view it firl1: natural-
ly, and afterwards rationally, and lafl.:ly fpiritually,
and then if you can think elevatedly, you v,;ill be
all:onifl1ed at every Thing ; and if you admit \Vif-
dom 'to fpeak in you, you will fay in your Afl:onifh-
ment, Who doth not fee a Divine Principie in thefe
Things? They are all Effeas of the Divirie Wif-
dom. Still more if you regard the Ufes of aU
Things which are created, how they fucceed in their
Order even unto Man, and from Man to the Crea-
tor from whom they are; and that upon the Con-
F junttion
42 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
junCtion of the Creator with Man the Connexion
of all Things depends, and if you will acknowledge
it, the Prefervation of all Things. That the Divine
Love created all Things, but Nothing without the
Divine \Vifdom, will be feen in what follows.
4· II. 'That tbe Divine Lo·ve and the Di·uine W!f
d?m proceed as One from the Lord. This alfo is evi-
dent from what was fhewn in the Treatife concern-
ing THE DiviNE LovE AND THE DIVINE Wrsnoi\t,.
efpecially from. the following Articles therein, That
To DE and TO EXIST ( f!:lfo et Exjflere) in the Lord
are diftinaly one, n. 14 to I 7. That in the Lord
infinite Things are diil:inctly one, n. I 7 to 22. That
the Divine Love is of the Divine \V"ifdom, and the
Divine Wifdom of the Divine 'Love, n. 34 to 39·
That Love without a Marriage with Wifdom can-
not do any Thing, n. 401 to 403. That Love does
Nothing but in Conjunaion with Wifdom, n. 409,.
4I o. That fpiritual Heat and fpiritual Light in
proceeding from the Lord as a Sun make one, as
the Divine Love and the Divine \Vifdom in the
Lord are one, n. 99 to I 32; from what is !hewn
in thefe Articles, the Truth of this Matter is evident.
But forafmuch as it is not known how two Things
difiinB: from each other can aCt as One, I will here
fhew that a ONE doth not exifi without a Form, but
that the Form itfelf maketh a One ; and next, that
the Form fo much the more perfeCtly maketh a One,
in Proportion as the Things which enter the Form~
are difi:ina:Iy other, and fi:ill united. 'That a One-
doth not ex!Jl without a Form, but that the Form 'itfe!f
maketh it One: Every one who thinks intently with
the Mind, may fee clearly, that a One without a
Form
TnE DIVINE PROVIDEl~c:c. 43
Form doth not exifr, and if it doth exifr that it is a ·
Form; for whatfoever exifl:eth, from its Form deri-
veth that which is called ~ality, and alfo that
which is called Predicate, alfo that which is called
Change of State, as alfo that which is called Rela.
tion [ Relativum], and the like; wherefore that
which is not in a Form, is n'ot of any Aftecrion, and
that which is not of any Affecrion, is not alfo of any
Thing (nullius Rei); the Form itfelf giveth all
thefe : And forafmuch as all Things which are in a
Form, if the Form is perfecr, mutually refpeCl each
other, as one Link in a Chain doth another, there-
fore it follows that the Form itfelfmaketh them One~
and confequently a fubjecr, whereof ~ality, State~
AHecrion, therefore Something, may be predicated,
according to the Pcrfecrion of the Form. Such
a One is every Thing which is an Objed: of Sight
in the \Vorld, and fuch a One alfo is every Thing
which is not an objed: of Sight, whether it be in in-
terior Nature, or in the Spiritual vVorld; fuch a One
is Man, and fuch a One is a human Society; and fuch
a One is the Church, as alfo the univerfal Angelic
Heaven before the Lord ; in a Vlord, fuch a One is
the created Univerfe not only in general but in eve-
ry Particular. In Order that al! and every Thing
may be Forms, it is neceifary that He who created
all Things ihould be Form itfelf, and that from Form
itfelf all Things fhould exifi which are created in
Forms : This therefore is what is fhewn in the Treat-
ife concerning THE Drvi"'E LovE AND THE DIVINE
WISDOM under the following Articles, viz. That
the rl!vine Love and the Divine \Vifdom is a Sub.
france and a Form, n. 40 to 43· That the Divine
Love
'44 ANGELIC \VISDO.M CONCERNING
Love. and the Divine "Wifdom are Subfl:ance and
Form in itfdf, therefore the Self-fubfifl:ing and the
Sole-fubfifting, n. 44 to 46. That the Divine Love
and the Divine Wifdom in the Lord are On~, n. I 4
to I 7, n. I 8 to 2 2. And that they proCPced as One
from the Lord, n. 99 to I oz, and in other Places.
Cf'hat the Form maketl~ a Onefo much tbe morepcrjefl-
ly, in Proportion as tbe Tbings wbich enter into tbe
Form, are djflinfl!y other, and neverthc!ifs united:
This is comprehended with Difficulty by the Under.
flandin~ unlefs it be elevated, becaufe there is an
Appearance, tl~at Form cannot otherwife make One,
than by Semblances of Equality of the Things which
confl:itute the Form: On this Subjecr I ha,·e fre-
quently converfed with the Angels; who faid that
this is an Arcanum, which the vVife among them
perceive clearly, but the lefs vVife obfcurely; nev-
erthelefs that it is a Truth that a Form is fo much
the more perfeEt, in Proportion as the Things which
confl:itute it, are difl:inEtly other, but fl:ill united in
a firrgular Manner : They confirmed this by the
Cafe of the Societies in the Heavens, which taken
together confl:itute the Form of Heaven; and by
the Angels of each Society, that by how much the
more difl:inEtly every one is his own, and therefore
free, and thus loveth his Aifociates as from himfelf,
and from his own AffeEtion, the Form of the Socie...
ty is the more perfeEt ; they alfo illufl:rated it by
the Marriage of Goodnefs and Truth, that by how
much the more di!linEtly they are two, by fo much
the more perfeEtly they can make One; and in
like Manner by Love and \Vifdom ; and that what
is indifl:inEt is confufed, from whence all Imperfeo6
t~on
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 45
tion of Form refults. But how Things perfeaiy
difiinet are united, and thus make One, they are al-
fo confirmed by many Infl:ances ; efpecially by the
Things whic hare in !\ian,where innumerable Things
are fo difl:inet, and {till united, difl:inet by their Coats,
and united by Ligaments; and that it is the fame
with Love and every Thing appertaining to it, and
with \Vifdom and every Thing appertaining to it,
which are not otherwi1e per~eived than a$ One.
More on this SubjeCt may be feen in the Treatiie con-
cerning THE DIVINE LovE AND THE DIVINE \VIs-
DOM,n. 14 to 22,and in the Work concerning I-lEAv-
.EN AND HEI.L, n. s6 and 489. This is adduced
becaufe it is an Arcanum of Angelic vVifdom.
5· Ill. 'That this One is in a certain Image in ewry
created 'Thing. That the Divine Love and the Di-
vine "Wifdom, \vhich in the Lord are one, are in a
certain Image in every created Thing, may appear
from what is fhewn in many Parts of the Treatife
concerning THE DrviNE LovE AND THE DIVINE
\iVIsDoM, and efpecially from n. 47 to SI, s+ to 6o,
282 to 284, 290 to 295, 316 to 318, 319 to 326,
349 to 457 ; in which Places it is fhcwn, that the
Divine is in every created Thing, bccaufe God the
Creator, who is the Lord from Eternity, from him-
felf produced the Sun of the Spiritual ·world, and
by that Sun all Things in the Univerfe, confequent-
ly that that Sun which is from the Lord, and where-
in the Lord is, is not only the firft Subfl:ance, but
alfo the Sole from which all Things are; and for-
afmuch as it is the fole Subflance, it follows that it
is in eYery created Thing, but with infinite Variety
.according to Ufes. Now forafmuch as in the Lord
there
46 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
there is Divine Love and Divine Vvifdom, and in
the Sun from Him Divine Fire and Divine Bright-
nefs, and from the Sun fpiritual Heat and fpiritual
Light, and thefe two make one, it follows that this
One is in a certain Image in every created Thing.
Hence it is, that all Things which are in the Uni-
verfe have Relation to Good and Truth, yea to the
Conjunction of them, or what is the fame, that all
Things in the Univcrfe have Relation to Love and
'\iVifdom, and to the Conjuncrion thereo(for Good
is of Love, and Truth is of \Vifdom, inafmuch as
Love calleth all that appertaineth to it Good, and
\Vifdom calleth all that appertaineth to it True :
That there is a ConjunB:ion of thefe in every created
Thing, will be feen in what follows.
6. It is a.::knowledged by many, that there is one
only Subfbnce, which is alfo the firfl:, from which
all Things are; but what that Subfl:ance is, it is
not known ; it is thought that it is fo fimplc that
Nothing can be fimplcr, and that it may be likened
to a Point which is of no Dimenfion, and that from
an infinite Number of fuch, the Forms of Dimen-
fion exifl:ed: This however is a Fallacy originating
from the Idea· of Space; for from this Idea there
appears to be fuch a fmallefl: [Point or Particle]:
Neverthelefs it is a Truth, that by how much any
Thing is more fimple and pure, by fo much it is
more and fuller ; which is the Reafon why the
more interiorly any ObjeB: is viewed, fo much the
more wonderful, perfeB:, and beautiful Things are
feen in it; and thus that ip the firfl: Subfl:ance there
are the mofi: wonderful, beautiful, .and perfea
Things of all. The Ground and Reafon ofthis i2a
becaufe
Tru DrviNE PROVIDENCE. 47
becaufe the firfl Subfbnce is from the fpiritual Sun,
which, as was faid, is from the Lord, and in which
the Lord is, therefore that very Sun is the only Sub-
fiance, which forafmuch as it is pot in Space, is all
in all, and in the greatefl and leafl: Things in the
created Uni\·erfe. Forafmuch as that Sun is the
firfl: artd only Subfl:ance, from which all Things are,
it follows that there are in it infinitely more Things
than what can appear in the Subil:anccs thence deri-
ved, which are called fubfl:antiate, and lail:ly mate-
rial: The Reafon vvhy the former cannot appear in
the latter, is, becaufe they defcend from that Sun by
Degrees of two Kinds, according to which all Per-
fections decreafe : Hence it is, that, as was faid
above, by how much any Thing is viewed more in-
teriorly, by fo much the more wonderful, perfeCt,
.and beautiful Things arc feen in it. Thefe Obfer-
vations are here made in Order to confirm this
Truth, that there is a certain Image of the Divine
in every created Thing, but that it appears lefs and
lefs in defcending by Degrees, and il:i!l lefs when
the inferior Degree, being feparated from the fupe-
- rior Degree by a Clofure, is choaked up with earthy
Matter. Thefe Obfervations however cannot but
feem obfcure, unlefs what hath been faid concerning
the fpiritual Sun in the Treatife on THE DrvrNE
LovE AND THEDiviNE WrsnoM, n. 53 to 172; of
Degrees, n. I 73 to 281 ; and of the Creation ofthe
Univerfe, n. 282 to 357, hath been firfi read and un-
deril:ood.
7· IV. 'That it is ofthe Divine Providence, that ev-
ery created Thing in the Whole and in Part jhou!d be
[uch a One, and ifit is not, that itjbou!d be madefo;
that
48 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
that is, that in every created Thing there fhould be
Something out ofthe Divine Love, and at the fame
Time out of the Divine Wifdom, or what is the fame,
that in every created Thing there fhould be Good
and Trnth, or a Conjunaion of ·the Good and the
True : Forafmuch as Good is of Love and the True
is of \Vifdom, as was faid above, n. 5 ; therefore in
what follows, infl:eac.l of Love and vVifdom we fhall
ufe the Vvords Good and True, or Goodnefs and
Truth, and infl:ead of the Unio}l of Love and Wif.
dom, the Marriage of Goodnefs and Truth.
8. From the preceding Article it is evident, that
the Divine Love and the Divine Wifdom, which
in the Lord are One, and from the Lord proceed
as One, exift in a certain Image in every Thing
'\ created by Him; it may be expedient now to fpeak
particularly of that One, or Union, which is called
the Marriage of Goodnefs and Truth. That Mar.
riage is, I. in the Lord himfelf; for as hath been:
faid, the Divine Love and the Divine \Vifdom in
Him are One. II. It is from the Lord, for in eve·
ry Thing which proceedeth from Him, Love and
Wifdom are perfeC\:ly united; thefe two proceed
from the Lord as a Sun, the Divme Love as Heat7
and the Divine \Vifdom as Light. III. They are
received by the Angels indeed as two, but they are
united in them by the Lord : The Cafe is the fame
·with Men of the Church. IV. From the Influx of
Love and \Vifdom from the Lord as one into the An.
gels of Heaven and Men ofthe Church,and from the
Reception thereofby Angels and Men, it is that the
Lord in the Word is called the Bridegroom and
the Hufban:i, anJ Heaven and the Church the Bride
and
Tin: DrviNt PRovm£NcE.. 49
4
.
and the :Wife. V. As far therefore as Heaven and
the Church in general, and an Angel of Heaven
and a l\'lan of the Church in particular, is in that
Union, or in the Marriage of Goodnefs and Truth,
fo far they are an Image and Likcnefs of the Lord ;
bec:mfe thefe two in the Lord are One, yea they arc
the Lord. VI. Love and \Vifdom in Heave:1 and
in the Church in general, and in an Angel of Heay•
en and in a Man of the Church, are One, when the
\Vill and the Underfl:anding, and therefore when
Goodnefs and Truth make one, or what is the
fame, when Charity and Faith make one : or what
is frill the fame, when Doetrine from the Vford,
and a Life according to it make one. VII. Bu~ hmv
thefe two make one in Man and in all Th;ngs a,?..
pertaining to him, is !hewn in the Treatife concern..
ing THE DrviNE LovE AND THE DIVINE Wis-
DOM, Part the Fifth, where the Creation. of Man,
and partic'ularly the Correfpondence of the 'Will
and the Underfl:anding with the Heart and the
Lungs are treated of, from n. 385 to 432. • ,
g. But how thefe make One in the Things which
are beneath or without Man, as well in the Things
which are in the Animal Kingdom, as in thofe
which are in the Vegetable Kingdom, will be fhewn
in many Places in what follows; previous to which
thefe three Things ate to be premifed : FrRST,
That in the Univerfe, and in all and every Thing
therein, which was created by the Lord, there was
a Marriage of Goodnefs and Truth. S ECONDLY,
That that Marriage after the Creation was feparated
in Man. THIRDLY, That it is of the Divine Provi-
dence that what is feparated fhould be made one,
G and
50 ANGELIC \VJSDOM CONCERNING
and thus that the Marriage of Goodne[s and Truth
ihould be reftored. Thefe three Particulars are
abundantly confirmed in the Treatife on Tm: DI-
VINE LovE AND THE DIVINE \VrsnoM, wherefore
they have no Need of further Confirmation: Eve-
ry one alfo may fee from Reafon, that fince a 1\hr..
riagc of Goodnefs and Truth \Vas by Creation in
every created Thing, and fince this was afterwards
feparated, the Lord mufl: operate continually, that
it may be refl:ored ; confequer:tly that the Re!l:ora-
tion thereof, and thereby the Conjunfrion of the
created Univerfe with the Lord through Man, is of
the Divine Providence.
ro. V. That tbe Good ofLove is not Good, exceptfo
Jar m it is united to the 'I'rue ofW!fdom, and that the
'True of W!fdom is not 'True, exceptJoJar as it is uni-
ted to the Good ofLove: Good and Truth derive this
from the~r Origin, Good in its Origin is in the
I.ord, in like Manner is Truth, becaufe the Lord
is Good itfelf and Truth itfelf, and thefe two in
Him are one ; hence it is that Good in the Angels
of Heaven and in Men of the Earth is not Good
in itfelf, except fo far as it is united to Truth, and
that Truth is not Truth in itfelf, except fo far as it
is united to Good. That all Good and all Truth
is from the Lord, is well known ; hence, foraf-
much as Good maketh one with Truth, and Truth
with Good, it follows, that in Order to Good being
Good in itfelf, and Truth being True in itfelf they,
muft make one in the Recipient, which is an An·get
of Heaven and a Man of the Earth.
II. It is known indeed that all Things in the U-
nivcrfe have Relation to Good and Truth, becal..}fe
• by
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 51
by Good is underflood that which univerfally em-
braceth and involveth all Things of Love, and by
Truth is undedtood that which univerfally embra-
ceth and involvt:th all Things of \Vifdom; but it ·is
not yet known that Good is not any Thing unlefs
united to Truth, nor that Truth is not any Thing
unlefs united to Good: It appears indeed as if Good
were Something without 'Truth, and as if Truth
were Something without Good, but {l:ill they are
not; for Love, all Things· appertaining to which are
called Goods, is the Ejfe of a Thing, and Wifdom,
all Things appertaining to which arc called Truths,
is the Exiflcre (Exiftence) of a Thing from that
.Eife, as was fhewn in the Trcatife on THE DrvrN·e
LovE AND THE DiviNE \VIsDOIII, n. 14 to 16;
wherefore as an Eire (Eifence) without Exifl.ence is
not any Thing, nor Exiflence without an Eifence, fo
Good without Truth, and Truth without Good,
are not any Thing. In like Manner, what is Good
without Relation to Something ? can it be called
Good ? it being in fuch Cafe of no AffeB:ion and
of no Perception ; to appertain to Affetl:ion and
Perception hath Relation !o Truth,' together ,,·ith
the Good \Vhich affetl:eth, and which caufeth itfelf
to be perceived and felt, becaufe it hath Relation
to thaL which is in the Underfl:anding; fay barely
to any one, Good, and not this or that is good, and
is Good any Thing ? But by Virtue of this or that
which is perceived as one with Good, it is Some-
thing ; this is not united to Good any where elfe
but in the Underfl:anding, and the All of the Un-
derfl:anding hath Relation to Truth. lt is the fame
with Volition (vel/e) ; to will without knowing,
perce1vmg,
S2 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCE!tNING
perceiYing, and thinking what a Man willeth, is not
any Thing, but together with thefe it becometh
Something ; all Volition (vel/e) is of Love, and
hath Relation to Good, and all Knowledge (fcire),
Perception, and T hought is -of the Underfl:anding,
and hath Relation to Truth ; hence it is evident,
that to will is not any Thing, but to will this or
that is Something. It is the fame with all Ufe, be-
caufe Ufe is good; Ufe, unlefs it be determined to
Something, with which it may be one, is not Ufe,
therefore it is not any Thing ; Ufe derives its be-
ing Something, from the Underfl:anding, and that
whidh is thence conjoinedor adjoinedtoUfe,hath Re-
lation to Truth ; from this Ufe derives its ~ality.
From thefe few Hints it may appear that Good with-
out Truth is not any Thing, therefore that neither is
Truth without Good any Thing. It is faid that
Good with Truth and Truth with Good are Some..
thing, hence it follows, that Evil with Falfe and
Falfe with Evil are not Something, for the latter are
oppofite to the former, and Oppofition defl:royeth,
in the prefent Cafe defl:royeth that which is Some.
thing ( aliquid); but more of this in what follows.
I z. But there exifl:eth a Marriage of Goodnefs
and Truth in the Caufe, and there exifl:eth a Mar..
riage of Goodnefs and Truth from the Caufe in the
Eff'ea ; the Marriage ofGoodnefs and Truth in the
Caufe, is the Marriage of the \iVill and the Under..
fianding, or of Love and \Vifdom ; in all that a Man
willeth and thinketh, and which he thence conclu-
deth and intendeth, there is this Marriage: This
Marriage entereth the EffeB: and caufeth it, but in
~ffecring, thefe two appear difl:incr, becaufe what ia
Simultaneot+S
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 53
Simultaneous then confl:itutcth what is Succeffive:
As \vhen a Man willeth and thinketh to be nouriih-
ed, to be cloathed,to have a Dwelling,t? do any Bufi-
Jlefs or \Vork, orto converfe, in this Caie he firfl: fimul-
taneou!ly willeth and thinketh, or concludeth and
intendeth it, and when he hath determined thele
Operations toEffeCt, then one Thing fucceedcth after
another, but l1ill they continually make one in the
Will and in the Thought: Ufcs in thefe Efreas are
of Love or of Good, Means to Ufes are of the Ua-
derfl:anding or of Truth. Thefe Univerfals any one
may confirm by Particulars, if fo be he dillinEtly
perceiveth what hath Relation to the Good of Love
and what to the True of Wifdom, and diilinaly
perceiveth now it hath Relation in the Cauie and
how in the Effecr.
13. It hath occafionally been faid, that Love
makes the Life of Man, but it is not meant Love
feparate from Wifdom, or Good feparate from,
Truth in the Caufe, becaufe Love feparate or Good
feparate, is not any Thing, wherefore the Love
which maketh the inmofl: Life of Man, which is·
from the Lord, is Love and \Vifdom together ;
neither alfo is the Love which maketh the Life of
Man fo far as he is a Recipient, feparated in the
Caufe, but in the Effecr ; for Love cannot be under-
flood without its ~tality, and its ~ality is \Vif-
Q.om ; Qt!ality or \Vifdom cannot be given except
from its Effe, which is Love, hence it is that they
are one; it is the fame with Good and Truth. Now
forafmuch as Truth is from Good, as \Vifdom is
from Love, therefore both taken together arc called
Love or Good, for Love in its Form is \Vifdom,
· / and
54 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
and Good in its Form is Truth; from its Form,
and from no other Source is all its ~ality.
Hereby then it may appear that Good is not in the·
leafl: Good, any more than in Proportion as it is uni-
ted to its Truth, and that Truth is not in the leafl:
Truth, any more than in Proportion as it is united-
to its Good.
14. VI. 'That the Good of Love not united to the
True qf Wifdom is not Good in iifelf, but that it is
apparent Gol)d, and that the 'True qfWifllom not united
to tbc Good qf Love is not True in itfelf, but that it is
crNarent 'Truth. The Truth is, that there doth not
exifi any Good which is Good in itfelf, except it be
united to its Truth, nor any Truth which is True
in iu-df, except it be united to its Good; neverthe-
lefs there exitts Good feparate from Truth, and
Truth_ feparate from Good; this exifl:eth in Hypo-
crites and Flatterers, in all the Vlicked whatfoever,
and in thofe wh() are in natural Good and in no fpirit-
ual Good; thefe can do Good to the Church, to their
Country, to Society, to their Fellow-Citizens, to the
Needy, the Poor, to Widows and Orphans, and they
can alfo underfl:and Truths, from the Underfianding
think them, and from Thought fpeak and teach
them ; but flill thefe Goods and Truths arc not inte-
riorly, therefore not in themfelves Goods and Truths
in them, but they are exteriorly Goods and Truths,
therefore only in Appearance, for they are only for
the Sake of Self and the \Vorld, and not for the
Sake of Good itfelf and Truth itfelf, confequently
not grounded in Goodnefs and Truth ; wherefore
they are only of the Mouth and of the Body, and
not of the Heart i and may be compared to Gold
and
•
THE DIVINE PROVJDE~CE. 55
and Silver inclofing Drofs, or putrid vVood or
Dung ; and Truths thus uttered may be compared
to the vVind of Rcfpiration \Vhich is difperfed, or to
an Ignis fatuus \vhich vanifheth, which neverthelefs
outwardly appear as if they were genuine: Notwith-
fianding, however, fuch Appearancc, they may ap-
pear otherwife to the Hearers and Recipients, who
do not know this ; for what is external afFetl:eth
every one according to his internal, inafmuch as
Truth entereth, from whatever Mouth it be uttered,
into the Hearing of another, and is received by the
Mind according to its State and ~ality. \Vith
thofe who are in mtural Good hereditarily, and in
no fpiritual Good, the Cafe is nearly fimilar, for
the Internal of all Good and of all Truth is fpiritual,
and this !haketh off Falfes and Evils, but the Natu-
ral Principle alone favoureth them, and to favour
Evils and Falfes, and to do Good, do not accord.
15. The Ground and Reafon why Good can be
feparated from Truth, and Truth from Good, and
when it is fcparated, fiill appear as Good and Truth,
is, becaufe Man hath a Faculty of acting, which is
called Liherty, and a Faculty of underfl:anding,
which is called Rationality ; from the Abufe of
thefe Faculties it is, that Man can appear different
in Externals from what he is in Internals ; there-
fore that a wicked Man can do Good and fpeak
Truth, or that the Devil can imitate an Angd of
Light. But on this SubjeCt fee the following Obfer..-
Yations in the Treatife on THE DIVINE LovE .1\ND
THE DIVINE WISDOM : That the Origin of Evil is
from the Abufe of the Faculties which are proper
to Man,and are called Rationality and Liberty,n. 264
to
56 A~crLic "\Vrsno~t coNcEn.NINo
to 270. That thefe two Faculties exift as well in
the vVicked as in the Good, n. 425. That Love with..
out a Marriage with vVifdom, or Good without a
..l.\1arriage with Truth, cannot do any Thing, n..401~
That Love does Nothing but in ConjunCtion with
\Vifdom or the Underfl:anding, n. 409. That Love
joineth itfelf to \:Vifdom or the Underfianding, and
caufcth \Vifdom or the Underfianding to be recip~
rocally joined to it, n. 410, 41 r, 412. That \Vif~
.uom or the Underfianding, by Means of the Power
given it by Love, can be elevated, ·and receive the
Things which are of the Light from Heaven, and
perceive them, n. 413. That Love can in like
:Manner be elevated, and receive the Things which
2.re of the Heat from Heaven, if it loves Wifdom
its Confort in that Degree, n. 414, 41 5'· That
otherwife Love draws dov.rn Wifdom or the Under-
flanding from its Elevation, that it may ad as one
with it, n. 416 to 418., That Love is purified in
the Underfl:anding, if they are elevated together,
n. 4r9 to 421. That Love purified by Wifdom in
the Underfl:anding becomes fpiritual and celeflial ~
but that Love defiled in the Undcrfl;mding be~
comes fenfual and corporeal, n. 422 to 424. Tha~ .
it is the fame with Charity and Faith and their Con-
juntlion, as it is with Love and Wifdom and their
ConjunCtion, n. 427 to 430. "What Charity is in
Heaven, n. 431.
16. VII. 'That the Lord doth not ;tiffer any 'Thing
to be divided, wherifore it ml!fl eitbtr be in Good and
at the fame 'Time in 'Truth, or in Evil and at the (am~
'rime in the Fa!fe. The Divine Providence of the
Lord hath efpecially for its End, and operates, rha!!
Man
:rHE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 57
~Tan may be in Good and at the fame Time in
Truth, inafmuch as hereby he is his own Good and
his own Love, and alfo his own Truth and his cwn
\Vifdom ; for l~y this Man is Man, being in this
Cafe an Image of the Lord: But forafmuch as .iVlan,
while he liveth in the World, can be in Good and
at the fame Time in the Falfe, alfo in 'Evil and at
the fame Time in Truth, yea can be in Evil and at
the fume Time in Good, and thus as it were a dou.:.
ble Man; and fince this Divifion dellroyeth that
Image and confequently the Man, therefore the
Divine Providence of the Lord, in all and fingular
its Operations; hath in View, that this Divifwn
fhonld not exifl:. : And forafmuch as it is lefs hurt-
ful to Man, to be in Evil and at the fame Time in
the Falfe, than to be in Good and at the fame i.'ime
in Evil, therefore the Lord permitteth the former,
not as willing it, but as not being able to refifl: it
for the Sake of the End, which is Salvation. The
Reafon why Man can be in Evil and at the fame
Time in Truth, and that the Lord cannot refifl: it
for the Sake of the End, which is Salvation, is be-
caufe the Underfl:anding of Man can be elevated
into the Light of Wifdom, and fee Truths; or ac-
knowledge them when he heareth them, his Love
remaining below ; thus Man can be Y>ith his Un-
derfl:anding in HeaYen, but with his Love in Bell,
and to be fo, cannot be denied .M!).n, becaufe the
two Faculties, by which he is Man, and is diflin-
guilhed from Beafl:.s, and by which alone he can be
regenerated and thereby faYed, which are Rational~
ity and Liberty, cannot be taken away from him ;
for by them Man can aCl: according to \VifJom, and
H ;.lf~
58 ANGELIC \VrSDOM CO~CERNING
alfo can act according to the Love not of \Vifdom,
and can from Wifdom above fee Love beneath, and
thus fee his own Thoughts, Intentions, AffeB:ions,
therefore the Evils and Falfes, as alfo the Goods and
Truths of his Life and DoClrine, without a Knowl-
edge and Acknowledgment of which in himfelf, he
cannot be reformed. Of thefe two Faculties Some-
thing hath been faid above, and more will be faid
in what follows. This is the Reafon why Man can
be in Good and at the fame Time in Truth, alfo in
Evil and at the fame Time in the Falfe, and likewife
in the Alternates thereof.
17. Man can with Difficulty in this World come
either into one or the other Conjunaion or Union,
that is, of Good and True, or of Evil and Falfe, for
fo long as he liveth here, he is kept in a State of
Reformation or Regeneration ; but every Man
cometh into one or the other after Death, becaufe
then he can no longer be reformed and regenera-
ted 7 he then remains fuch as his Life had been in
the World, that is, fuch as his ruling Love had
been ; wherefore if his Life had been a Life of the
I~ove of Evil, every Truth which he had acquired
from Maf1e.rs, Preachings, or the "Word in this
Vvorld, is taken away from him, which being taken
away, he imbibes the Falfe which accords with his
Evil, as a Spunge doth \Vater; and ·vice verfa; but
if his Life had been a Life of the Love of Good,
every Falfe is removed which he had imbibed by
Hearing or by Reading in the World, and which
he had not confirmed in himfelf, and in Place there-
of is given Truth which accordeth with his Good.
This is meant by thefe \Vords of the Lord, " Ta.ke
tbe
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 59
.the 'Talent from him, and gi've it unto him which hath
ten 'Talents ,· for unto every one that hath }ball be giv-
en, and he jhall have Abundance ; butfrom him that
hath notjhall be taken away even that whicb he hath,"
Matt. xxv. 28, :29. Chap. xiii. I 2. Mark iv. 25.
Luke viii. I 8. Chap. xix. 24 to 26.
I 8. The Ground and Reafon why every one after
Death mufl: either be in Good and at the fame Time
in Truth, or in Evil and at the fame Time in the
Falfe, is, becaufe Good and Evil cannot be joined;
neither Good and at the fame Time the· Falfe of
Evil, nor Evil, and at the fame Time the True of
Good, for they are Oppofites, and Oppofites combat
each other, until one defl:royeth the other. They
who are in Evil and at the fame Time in Good, are
underfl:ood by thefe Words of the Lord to the
Church of Laodicea in the Apocalypfe, '' I know
thy Works, that thou art neither cold nor hot; I would
thou wert either cold or hot ; but becazife thou art lu.~e­
warm, and neither cold nor hot, I willJpew thee out of
my Mouth," iii. 15, I 6 : Alfo by thefe \N"ords of
the Lord, " No Man can ferve two Maflers; for
either he will hate the one and love the other, or e!fe
he will hold to the one and d~fp{e the other," Matt.
VI. 24.
19. VIII. That that which is in Good and at the
fame 'Time in 'lruth is Something, and that that which
is in Evil and at the fame 'Time in the Fa!fe is not
any 'Thing. That that which is in Good and at the
fame Time in Truth is Something, may be feen
above, n. 1 I ; thence it follows, that what is Evil
and at the fame Time Falfe is not any Thing. By
not being any Thing, is meant that it hath no Power~
and
6o ANGELIC \VISDOl\1 CONCERNING
and nothing of fpiritual Life : They who are in Evil
and at the fame Time in the Falfe, all of whom are:
in Hell, have indeed Power among themfelves, for a
wicked Spirit can do Evil, and alfo doth do Evil a
thoufand Ways, neverthelefs he can only from a
Pri11ciple of Evil do Evil to the Wicked, but cannot
in the leafl: do Evil to the Good, and if he doeth E-
,·il to the Good, '"'·hich fometimes is the Cafe, it is by
ConjunCtion with their Evil; thence come Tempta-
tions, which are Infefl:ations arifing from evil Spirits
about a Man, and confequent Combats, whereby
the Good may be delivered from their Evils. For-
afmuch as the Wicked have no Power, therefore the
univerfal Hell before the Lord is not only as Noth·
ing, but it is altogether Nothing as to Power; that
it is fo, I have feen confirmed by much Experience.
This however is wonderful, that all the \Vicked think
themfelves powerful, and that all the Good think
themfelves not powerful; the Reafon is, becaufe the
Wicked attribute every Thing to Self-derived Pru-
dence, and therefore to Cunning and Malice, and
Nothing to the Lord; but the Good attribute Noth-
ing to Self-derived Prudence, but every Thing to the
Lord, who is Omnipotent. Another Reafon why
Evil and its attendant Falfe are not any Thing, is,
becaufe they have Nothing of fpiritual Life; and •
this is the Reafon why the Life of the lnfernals is
not called Life but Death, wherefore fince every
Something appertaineth to Life, Death cannot have
any Thing appertaining to it.
20. They who are at the fame Time in Evil and
i!1 Truths, may be compared to Eagles foaring aloft~
which, when their "Wings are taken away, fall down:
For .
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 6I
For Men do the fame after Death, when they be-
come Spirits ; they who underfl:ood Truths, fpake
them, and taught them, and yet had no Regard to
God in their Life, fuch by their IntelleCl:uals elevate
themfelves on high, and fometimes enter Heaven,and
feign themfelves Angels of Light ; but when Truths
are taken away from them, and they are fent forth,
they fall down into Hell. Eagles alfo fignify Men
of Rapine, who have intelleB:ual Sight, and 'Wings
fignify fpiritual Truths. It was faid, that they are
fuch, who had no RefpeCI: to God in their Life; by
having RefpeCl: to God in their Life, is meant Noth-
ing elfe but to think this or that Evil a Sin againfl:
God, and therefore not to do it.
21. IX. That the Divine Pro·vidence of the Lord
caufeth Evil and its attendant Fa!fe toferve for Equi-
librium, Relation, and Pur!Jication, and therebyfor the
Conjun{fion ofGood and Truth in others. From the
foregoing Confiderations it may appear, that the
Divine Providence ofthe Lord continually opcrateth,
that in Man Truth may be united to Good and
Good to Truth, by Reafon that this Union is the
Church and is Heaven ; for this Union is in the
Lord, and it is in every Thing that proceedeth from
the Lord: From this Union it is, that Heaven is
• called a Marriage, and alfo the Church, wherefore
the Kinguom of Gou in the \Vord is likened to a
Marriage: From this Union it is, that the Sabbath
in the lfraelitifh Church was the mofl: holy Part of
W odhip, for it fignified this Union : Hence alfci it is,
that in the vVord, and in all and every Thing there.
in, there is a Marriage of Good and Truth, on which
~ubje8: fee the Doctrine of the New Jerufalem con.
cerning
62 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
cerning THE SACRED ScRIPTURE, n. So to go;
the Marriage of Good and Truth is from the Mar.
riage of the Lord with the Church, and the latter
from the Marriage of Love and Wifdom in the Lord,
for Good is of Love, and Truth is of Wifdom.
Hence it may be feen, that it is the perpetual Object
of the Divine Providence, to unite in Man Good to
Truth and Truth to Go.od, for fo Man is united to
the Lord.
22. But whereas many have broken and do break
this Marriage, efpecially by the Separation of Faith
from Charity, and thereby conjoin in themfelves
E\·il and the Falfe, and thus have become, and do
become oppofite, it is provided of the Lord that thefe
neverthelefs may ferve for the Conjunc:tion of Good
and Truth in others, by Equilibrium, by Relation,
2nd by Purification. .
23. The Conjunc:tion of Good and Truth in oth-
ers is provided for of the Lord by EQYILIBRIUM be-
tween Heaven and Hell; for from Hell continually
exhales Evi_l and its concomitant Falfe, but from
Heaven continually exhales Good and its concom-
itant Truth; every Man is kept in this Equilibrium,
fo long as he liveth in the World, and thereby in
the Liberty of thinking, willing, fpeaking, and act-
ing, in which he may be reformed. Concerning •
this fpiritual Equilibrium, from which is derived
the Liberty of Man, fee the Work on HEAVEN AND
HELL, n. s89 to 596, and n. 597 to 6o3·
24. The Conjunc:tion of Good and Truth is pro-
vided for of the Lord by RELATION ; for Good is
not known as to its Q_:;ality, but by Relation to
what is lefs good, and by Oppofition to Evil ; all
the
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 6j
t~e perceptive and fenfitive Principle is thence deri-
ved, becaufe their ~ality is thence; for thus all De-
light is perceived and felt from what is lefs delight-
ful, and by what is difagreeable; all Beauty from
what is lcfs beautiful, and by what is ugly; in like
Manner all Good which is of Love from what is lefs
good, and by Evil; and all Truth which is of Wif-
dom from what is lefs true, and by what is falfe:
There mufl: be Variety in every Thing from its
greatefl to its leafl:, and when there is Variety alfo
in its Oppofite from its leafl to its greatefl, and
Equilibrium intercedeth, then according to the De-
grees on both Sides Relation is efl:ablifhed, and the
Perception and Senfation of the Thing either in-
creafeth or is diminiJ.hed. But i~ is to be noted, that
what is oppoflte taketh away, and alfo exalteth Per-
ceptions and Senfations; it taketh them away when
it mixeth itfelf, and exalteth them when it doth not
mix itfelf, for which Reafon the Lord exquifitely
feparateth Good and Evil, left they fhould be mixed,
in Man, as he feparateth Heaven and Hell.
25. The Conjunction of Good and Truth in oth-
ers is provided for of the Lord by PuRIFICATioN,
\vhich is done two ·ways, one by Temptations, and
the other by Fermentations. Spiritual Temptations
• are no other than Combats againfl Evils and
Falfes, which are exhaled from Hell and affect ;
by them Man is purified from Evils and Falfes,
and in him Good is joined to Truth, and Truth to
Good. Spiritual Fermentations are effected many
\Vays, as well in the Heavens as in the Earths ; but
in the \Vorld it is not known what they are, and
how they are effeaed: For they are Evils and at the
fame
64 ANGELIC vVISDOM CONCERNING
fame Time Falfes, which being let in upon Societies
aft like Ferments put into Meal and fermentable Li•
quors, whereby heterogeneous Things are feparateci7
and Things homogeneous are conjoined, and be-
come pure and clarified : Thefe are what are under~
fi:oocl by thefe \Vords of the Lord, "'!'he Kingdom
ofHeaven is like unto Lea·ven, which a Woman took and
bid in three Afeafurcs of Jo.1eal, till the Whole wai
leavened," Matt. xiii. 33· Luke xiii. zI.
26. Thefe Ufes are provided by the Lord f~om
the Conjunttion of Evii and the Falfe Principle.
which is in thofe who are in Hell ; for the Kingdom
of the Lord, wf!ich is not only over Heaven, but
alfo over Hell, is a Kingdom of Ufes ; and it is the
Divine Providence of the Lord, that there fhould
not be there any Perfon or any Thing, from which
and by which Ufe is not performed.
Tiz.at the Divine Providence of tlz.e Lord.
hat!z for its End an Heaven out of
the Huma.
n Race.
'Z7. THAT Heaven is !lot from any Angels-ere-.
ated fuch from the Begim1ing, and that
Hell is not from any Devil, who was created an An-
gel of Light, and cafl out from Heaven, but that
Heaven and Hell are from the Human Race, Heav-
en from thofe w!-lo arc in the I~ove of Good and
thence in the Underflanding of Truth, and Hell
frcm thofe who are in the Love of Evil and thence
in
TH.E bivxNE PRov!n=:Ncr. Gs
in the Undedhnding of what is Falfc, hath been
made known and proved to me by a long Intercourfe
with Angels and Spirits; concerning which fee al~
fo what is'fhewn in the \Vork on HEAVEN AND
HELL, n. 31 I to 3I 6 ; alfo in the Tract on THE
l-AST jUDGMENT, n. 14 to 27; and in the CoNTrN~
UATION CONCERNING THE LAST jUDGMENT AND
:nm SPIRITUAL \VoRLD, from Beginning to End.
Now forafmuch as Heaven is from the Human Race,
and Heaven is Cohabitation with the Lord to Eter~
nity, it follows that that was the Lord's End of Cre~
ation, and forafmuch as it was the End of Creation,
it is the End of his Di\ine Providence: The Lord
did not create the Univerfe for his own Sake, but
. for the Sake of thofe with whom he will dwell in
Heaven ; for fpiritud Lo\·e is fuch, th;::t it wifheth to
give what it hath to another, and in Proportio.n as
it can do this, it is in its E.ffe, in its Peace, and in its
Bleffednefs; this Property fpiritual Love deriveth
from the Divine Love of the Lord, which is infi~
nitely fuch : Hence it follows, that the Divine Love
and confequently the Divine Providence hath for
Its End an Heaven, which may confifi of l\Ien made
Angels, and who are making fuch, to whom the
Lord can give all the Beatitudes and Felicities which
are of Love and \Vifdom, and give them out of Him~
felf in them ; nor can he do otherwife, becaufe his
Image and Likenefs from Creation is in them, hi·
:;
Image in them is \VifJom, and his Lik.enefs in them
is Love, and the Lord in them is Love united to
\Vifdom and \Vifdom united to Love, or what i~
the fame, he is Good united to Truth, and Truth
united to Good; which Union was treated of in
I ilie
66 ANGELIC \VISDOl\I CONCERNING
the preceding Article. But forafmuch as it is not
known what Heaven is in general, or in many, and
what Heaven is in particular, or in one; alfo what
Heaven is in the fpirirual.World, and what Heaven is
in the natural \Vorld, and neverthelefs it is of Impor-
tance to know this, becaufe it is the End of the Di-
vine Providence, rherefore I am defirous to place
this Subje8.: in fome Degree of Light in the follow•
ing Order. J. That Heaven is ConjunCtion with
the Lord. II. That Man by Creation is fuch, that
he can be nearet and nearer conjoined to the Lord.
III. That Man, i!l Proportion as he is more nearly
conjoined to the Lor_
d, in the fame Proportion be.
cometh wifer. JV. That Man, in Proportion as he"
is more nearly _conjoined to the Lord, in the fame
Proportion becometh happier. V. That Man, in
Proportion as he is more nearly conjoined to the
Lord, in the fame Proportion appeareth to himfelf
more dii1.inclly to be his o\vn, and perceiveth more
evidently that he is the Lord's.
zS. I. That Heaven is Conjuntlii;n with the Lord:
Heaven is not Heaven from the Angels, but from
the Lord, for the Love and Wifdom, in which the
Angels are, and which confiitute Heaven, are not
from them, but from the Lord, yea, they are the
Lord in them : And whereas L ove and w·ifdom are
of the Lord, and are the Lord in Heaven, .and Love
and \Vifdom confiitutes the Life of the Angels, it is
evident that their Life is of the Lord, yea, that it is
the Lord ; that they live from the Lord, the Angeh
themfelves confefs ; hence it may appear that Heav...
en is ConjunClion with the Lord. But whereas var
rious Ccaj1.metion is uiven with the Lord, and con.
fequently
TnE DIVINE PROVIDENcE. 67
fequently one hath not the fame Heaven as another,
it alfo follows, that Heaven is according to Con-
junCtion with the Lord ; that there is a nearer and
nearer Conjunttion, alfo one more and more remote,
will be feen in the following Article. In the pref-
ent Article we fhall fpeak of that ConjunCtion how
it is effefted, and what it is : There is a ConjunCtion
of the Lord with the Angels, and of the Angels with
the Lord, and thus a reciprocal Conjunttion : The
Lord floweth into the Life's Love of the Angels, and
the Angels receive the Lord in \:Vifdom, and by this
in their Turn conjoin themfelves to the Lord. But
it is well to be attended to, that it appears to the
Angels as if they conjoined themfelves to the Lord
by Wifdom, but yet the Lord conjoineth them by
Wifdom to himfelf ) for their \Vifdom is alfo from
the Lord : It is the fame if it is faid, that the Lord
conjoineth himfelf to the Angels by Good, and that
the Angels in their Turn conjoin themfelves to the
Lord by Truth, for all Good·is of Love, and all
J'ruth is of Wifdom, But forafmuch as this recip-
rocal ConjU.netion is an Arcanum, which few can un-
derfi:and unlefs it be explained, I will unfold it, fo far
as it can be done, by fuch Things as are adequate
to the Comprehenfwn : In the Treatife concerning
'J'Hi DrviNE LovE AND THE DIVINE vVISDOM,
n. 404, 405, it is fhewn how Love conjoineth itfelf
to Wifdom, viz. by the AffeCtion of knowing, from
which is derived the AffeCl:ion of Truth, and by the
AffeCl:ion of Underflanding, from which is derived
the Perception of Truth, and by the AffeCtion of
feeing that which is known and underfi:ood, from
which is derived Tho1,1gh~: The Lord floweth into
all
68 AXGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
all thefe AffeCl:ions, for they are Derivations from
the Life's Love of every one, and the Angels re-
ceive that Influx in the Perception of Truth, and in
Thought, for in thefe the Influx r.ppears to them,
but not in the AffeCl:ions ; now forafmuch as Per-
ceptions and Thoughts appear to the Angels as if
they were their own, when neverthelefs they are
from Affetl:ions, which are from the Lord, there-
fore there is that Appearance, that the Angels recip-
rocally conjoin themfelves to the Lord, when never-
thelefs the Lord conjoineth them to himfelf, for Af-
fetl:ion irfelf produceth them, Affeaion which is of
Love being the Soul of them ; for no one can per-
ceive and think any Thing without Affeaion, and
every one perceiveth and think~th according to Af-
feCtion ; hence it is e'{ident, that the reciprocal
ConjunCtion of the Angels with the Lcrd is not
from them, but feems as if from them. Such a
Conjunaion alfo the Lord hath with the Church~
and the Church with the Lord, which is called the
cele!lid and fpiritual Marriage~
29. All Conjun3:ion in the fpiritual \i\Torld is ef-
feCted by !nfpeetion ; when any one there thinks of
another from the Affetl:ion of fpeaking with him,
the other immediately becomes prefent, and one
fees the other Face to Face ; the fame Thing hap-
pens when any one thinketh of another from the
AffeCtion of Love, but by this Afrettion ConjunCtion
is produced, whereas by the other Prefence only :
This is peculiar to the fpiritual \Vorld ; the Reafon
is, becatJfc all there are fpiritual, not fo in the natu-
ral \Vorld in which all are material; in the natural
World the fame takes Place with Men in tl1e AtTec~
tions
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 69
tions- and Thoughts of their Spirit ; but whereas in
the natural \Vorld there are Spaces, but in the [pi-
ritual World Spaces are only Appearances·, therefor~
in the latter \Vorld that is e~eCted aCtually, whi::h
hath Place in the Thought of any Spirit. This In-
formation is given in Order that it may be known
how the ConjunCtion of the Lord with the Angels is
eftefred, and the app:1tent reciprocal ConjunCtion of
the Angels with the Lord; for all the Angels turn
their Faces to the Lord, and the Lord looketh at
them in the Forehead, and the Angels look at the
Lord's Eyes, the Reafon is, becaufe the Forehead
correfpondeth to Love and its Affecrions, and the
Eyes correfpond to vVifdom and its Perceptions:
Neverthelefs the Angeb from thernfelves do not
turn their Faces to the Lord,. cut the Lord turnetl1
them to himfelf, and turneth them by Influx into
their Life's Love, and by it entereth into their
Perceptions and Thoughts, and fo converteth them.
Such a Circulation of the Love to the Thoughti',
and from the Thoughts to the Love from Love,
hath Place in all the human 1\Iiad; which Cir-
culation or Circle may be called the Circle of
Life. On this Subjeft fee fame Things alfo in
the Treatife on THE DiviNE LovE AND ·THE Dr-
VINE ·wrsDOM ; as that the Angels confl:amly turn
their Faces to the Lord as the Sun, n. I 29 to I 34·
That all the Interiors as well of the Minds as of the
Bodies of Angels, are in. like Manner turned to the
Lord as a Sun, n. 135 to IJ9· That every Spirit
whatfoever in like 1\Ianner turns himfelf to hi:> ru-
ling Love, n. qo to 145· That Love joins itfelf to
\Vifdom, and ca:1feth \VifJom to be reciprocally .
joined
70 ' ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
joined to it, n. 41 o to 4 r2. That the Angels are ia
the Lord, and the Lord in them : And forafmuch
as the Angels are Recieients, that the Lord alone is
Heaven, ri. 1 13 to I I '8.
30. The Lord's Heaven in the natural \Vorld is
called the Church, and an Angel of this Heaven i$
a Man of the Church who is conjoined to the Lord,
who a!fo, after his Departure out of the World, be..
cometh an Angel of the fpiritual Heaven : Hence it
is evident, that the fame which is faid of the angelic
Heaven, is to be underfi:ood of the human Heaven,
which is called the Church. This reciprocal Con..
junCtion with the Lord, whic;:h confl:itutes Beaven in
Man, is revealed by the Lord in thefe Words in John,
" Abide in Me, and I in you; h~ that abidet!J in Me,
and I in him, thefame lp;ingeth forth much Fruit ; for
without l.Ie ye can do Nothing," xv. 4, 5, 1~
31. Hence .it may appear, that the Lord is Heav.
en, not only in common to all in Heaven, but alfo
in particular to each Individual there; for every
Angel is a Heaven in its leaft Form ; and from as
many Heavens as there are Angels, Heaven in com.
mon exifl:s ; that this is the Cafe may be feen in the
vVork on HEAVEN AND HELL, n. 51 tosS. Let not
then any one cheri!h this Error,which enters into the
firfl: Thoughts of many that the Lord is in Heaven
'among the Angels, or that he is with them, as a King
is in his Kingdom ; he is above them as to Sight in
the Sun there, but as to their Life of Love and \Vif,.
dam he is in them.
32. II. That M;n by Creation is fuch, that he car.
be nearer and nearer conjoined to th( Lord, may ap..
pear from what is fhewn concerning Degrees, in th~
Treatife
*rHE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 1t
\ .
Treatife on TH :: DIVINE LovE AND THE DIVINE
\VISDOM, Part the Third, particubrly from the fol.-
lowing Articles : That there are three difcrete De~
grees, or Degrees of Altitude, in Man by Creation,
n. !230 to 1-35· That thefe three Degrees are in
every Man by Birth, and that as they are opened,
Man is in the Lord and the Lord in him, n. 236 to
~.p. And that all PerfeClions increafe and afcend
with Degrees, and according to them, n. I 99 to
204 : From which it is evident, that Man is fuch by
Creation, that by Degrees he can be nearer and
nearer conjoined to the Lord. But it is well to be
underfl:ood, what Degrees are, and that they arc of
two Kinds, difcrete Degrees, or Degrees of Altitude,
and continuous Degrees, or Degrees of Latitude,
and what the Difference is between them ; alfo that
€very Man by Creation, and thence by Birth, hath
three difcrete Degrees or Degrees of Altitude, and
that Man cometh into the firft Degree, which is call-
ed the natural Degree, when he is born, and that
he can increafe this Degree in himfelfby Continuity,
till he becometh rational ; and that he cometh into
the fecond, which is called the fpiritual Degree, if
he liveth according to the Laws of fpiritual Order,
which are Divine Truths ; and that ' he may alfo
come into the third or celefl:ial Degree, if he liv-
eth according to the Laws of celeftial Order, which
are Divine Goods. Thefe Degrees are· opened in
Man by the Lord according to his Life in the ·world
aClually, but not perceptibly and fenfibly till after
his Departure out of the vVorld ; and as they arc
opened and afterwards perfeCled, fo Man is nearer
and nearer conjoined to the Lord. This Conjunc-
tion
'J'i. ANGl:LIC VVISDOM CONCERNING
tion by nearer Approach may be increafed to Eter~
nity, 2nd alfo is increafed in the Angels to Eternity ~
but Hill an Angel cannot arrive at the firfl: Degree
of the Lord's Love and \Vifdom, or attain it, be-
caufe the Lord is infinite, and an Angel is finite;
and there is no Proportion between Infinite and
Finite. Forafmuch as no one can underfbnd the
St;:.~e of lVlan, and the State of his Elcyation anJ
Approximation to the Lord, except he knowetil
thcfe Degrees, therefore they are particularly treat-
ed of in the Treatife on TnE DrviNE LovE AND
THE DIVINE \?vrsno!'lr, from n. 173 to 281; which
fee.
33· We !hall br1efl'y fhew how Man can be near->
er conjoined to the Lord, and then how that Con-
junction appears nearer and nearer. How ~Man is
nearer and nearer conjoined to the Lord; this is done
not by Science alone, n_or by Intelligence alone, yea
neither by \Vifdom alone, bot by a Life conjoined
to them: The Life of Man is his Love, and Love is
manifold ; in general there is a Love of Evil and a
Love of Good ; the Love of Evil is the Love of A-
dulrery,Revenge, Fraud,Biafphemy, and of depri,;ing
others of their Goods; the Love ofEvil in thinking
and in doing thefe feels Pleafure and Delight; the
Derivations, which are AffeCtions of this Love, arc
as many as there are Evils to which it hath deter-
mined itfelf; and the Perceptions and Thoughts of
this Love, are as many as there are Falfes which fa.
vour thofe Evils and confirm them: Thefe Falfes
make one with the Evils, as the Underfianding
maketh one with the 'Vill, and they are not fepa·
rated from each other, becaufe one is of the other._
Now ~
'f1IE Dr\riNR PROVIDENCE. ...,..,
/J
Now forafmuch as the Lord floweth into the Life's
Love of every one, and by his Aif>!Ctions into his
Paceptions and Thoughts, and not vice .'Verja, as
was faid above, it follows that he cannot conjoin
himfelf nearer, than as the Love of Evil with its
AffeCtions, which are Lufts, is removed ; and foraf~
much as thefe refide in the natural Man, and Man,
whatfoever he doeth from the natural lVlan, feeleth
as ifhe acreJ from himfelf, therefore Man ought as
from himfelf to remove the Evils ofthat Love, and
then in Proportion as he removeth them, in the fame
Proportion the Lord approacheth nearer, and join•
eth hiinfelf to him : Any one may fee from Reafon
that Lufts with their Delights obfl:rufr and fuut the
Door againft the Lord, and that they cannot be call:
out by the Lord, fo long as Man himfelf keepeth
!he Door fhut, and preffeth from without and pre-
ven,teth it from being opened : That Man himfelf
ought to open it, is evident frof!l the Lord's \Vords .
in the Revelation, " Behold !)land at the Door and
knock j ifany Man hear my Voice, and open the Door,
I will come in to him, and willJup with him, and he
with Me," iii. 20. Hence it is evident, that in Pro~
portion as any one lhunneth Evils as diabolical, and
as Obfl:acles to the Lord's Entrance, in the fame
Proportion he is more and more nearly conjoined to
the Lord, and he the moft nearly, who abominates
them as fo many black and fiery Devils, for Evil and
the Devil are one; and the Falfe of Evil and Satan
are one; becaufe as the Influx of the Lord is into the
Love of Good and its Affetl:ions, and by thefe into
the Perceptions and Thoughts, all which derive from
the Good, in which a Man is principled, that they
lC are
74 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
are Truths, fo the Influx of the Devil, that is, cf
Hell, is into the Love of Evil and its Affe(Jions,
which are Lufl:s, and by thefe into the Perceptions
and Thoughts, all which derive from the Evil in
which a Man is principled, that they are Falfes',
Hr;w that Conjunflion appear.s nearer and nearer; in
Proportion as Evils are removed in the natural Man
by fuunning and turning away from them, in the
fame Proportion Man is nearer conjoined to the
Lord: And whereas Love and Wifdom, which are
the Lord himfelf, are not in Spac.e, fer AffeCtion
which is ofLove, and Thought which is of \:Vifdom,
have Nothing in common with Space, therefore the
Lord according to ConjunCtion by Love and Wif-
dom appeareth nearer 1 and on the contrary accord-
ing to the Rejetlion of Love and Wifdom more
remote: Space doth not e~ifl: in the fpiritual World,
but in that \Vorld Difl:ances and Prefence are Ap-
pearances..according to Similitudes and Diffimilitudes
of AffeCtions, for, as was faid, AffeCtions which are
of Love, and Thoughts which arc of Wifdom, and
in themfelves fpiritual, are not in Space; on which
Subjetl fee what is fhewn in the Treatife on 1'HE '
DIVINE LovE AND TH.E DIVINE WISDOM, n. 7 to
10, and n. 69 to 72, and elfewhere. The Conjunc-
tion of the Lord with Man, in whom EYils are re-
moved, is underfl:ood by thefe \Vords of the Lord,
"Thepure in Heart jba/1fee God," Matt. v. 8. And
by thefe, "He that hatb my Commandments, and keep-
etb them, I cz.uill make my Abode 'Z-vith him ;" to have
his Commandments is to know them, and to keep
his Commandments is to love them, for it is alfo
faid
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 75
faid there, he who keepetb my Commandments, he it i.r
"..uho loveth A1c.
34· III. '!'hat Man, in Proportion as he h more
ltearly conjoined to the Lord, in thefame Proportion be-
cometh •u.:!for. Forafmuch as there are three Degrees
of Life in Man by Creation, and thence by Nativity,
of which above, n. 32, there are efpecially three
Degrees of Wifdom in him ; thefe are the Degrees
which are opened in Man according to ConjunCtion ;
they are opened according to Love, for Love is Con-
junction itfelf: But the Afcem of Love according to
Degrees is not perceived except obfcurely by Man,
\vhereas the Afcent of \Vifdom is clearly perceived in·
thofe \vho know and fee what \Vifdom is. The Rea-
fan why the Degrees of Wifdom are perceived, is be-
caufe Love entereth by the AffeCtions into the Per-
ceptions and Thoughts; and thefe {hew themfelves
in the internal Sight of the Mind, which correfponds
to the external Sight of the Body ; hence it is that
\Vifdom appearetl-
1, and not fa the Aftetl:ion of Love
which produceth it: The Cafe is the fame with all
Things which are done acrually by Man ; it is per-
ceived how the Body operates them, but not hO\v
the Soul does; fa alfo it is perceived how a Man
meditates, perceives, and thinks, btlt not how the
Soul of thefe, which is the AffeCtion of Good and
Truth, produceth them. But there are three De.
grees of \Vifdom, the natmal, fpiritual, and cclef.
tial ; Man is in the natural Degree of Wifdom while
he liveth in the \Vorld ; this Degree then can be
perfected in him to its Height, and yet he cannot
enter into the fpiritual Degree, hecaufe this Degree
h not continued from the natural Degre;e by Conti.
nuity,
7~ ANG~l-IC VVlSD_
OM CONCERN)NG
nuity, but is joined t9 it by Correfpondenc~;:s: Man
is in the fpiritual Degree of \:Vifdom after Death,
~nd this Degree alfo is fuch, tha,t it can be perfect-
ed to its·Height, but yet cannot enter the celefl:ial
Degree of \Vifdom, bccaufe neither is this Degree
continued from the fpiritual by Continuity, but is
joined to it by Correfpondences : Hence it may ap·
pear, that \Vifdom can be elevated in a triplicate
Ratio, and that in each Degree it c~n be perfected
in a firnple Ratio to its Height. He who compre-
hendeth the Elevations and PerfectiQns of thefe De..
grees, can in fome Meafure perceive that, which i~
faid of Angelic 'Vifdom, that it is ineffable ; this al..
fo is fo ineffable, that a thoufand Ideas of Thought
of the Angels from their '\iVifdom cannot prefent
more than one Idea of the Thought of Men from
their Wifdom; thus 999 Ideas of the Thought of
Angels cannot enter, for they are fupernatural :
That this is the Cafe, hath been given me often to
know by lively Experience. But, as was faid be·
fore, no one can come into that ineffable W ifdom
of the Angels, but by Conjunction with the Lord,
and according to it, fo.r the Lord only openeth the
fpirirual Degree and the celefiial Degree, but only
in thofe who are wife from him ; and they are wife
from the Lord, who cafl: out the Devil, that is, Evil
fr.om themfelves.
. 35· But let not any one believe, that a Perfon
hath \:Vifdom becaufe he knoweth many Things,
and perceiveth them in a certain Light, and can
fpeak them intelligently, unlefs this be conjoined to
Love; for Love by its Affections produceth it; if
jt is not conjoined to Love, jt is li~e a Meteor in the
.Air
J THE DIVINE PROVIDENCl!. 77
Air which vanifheth, and like a falling Star ; but
Wifdom conjoined to Love is like the peq-manent
Light of the Sun, and like a fixed Star: Man hath
the Love of Wifdom, in Proportion as he hath an
Averfion to the diabolical Crew, which are the Con-
cupifcences of Evil and the Falfe.
36. Wifdom, which cometh to Perception, is the
Perception of Truth from the Affefl:ion thereat~ ef.
pecially the Perception of fpiritual Truth ; for there
is civil Truth, moral ·Truth, and fpiritual Truth ;
they who are in the Perception of fpiritual Truth
from the AffeCtion thereof, are alfo in the Percep-
tion of moral and civil Truth, for the AfreB:ion of
fpiritual Truth is the foul of them. I have fame~
times difcourfed with the Angels concerning \i\'if.
dom, who faid, that Wifdom is ConjunB:ion with
the Lord, becaufe the Lord is \Vifdom itfelf, and
that he cometh into that Conjunaion who rejceteth
Hell from himfelf, and cometh into it in the fame
Proportion as he rejetl:eth Hell : They faid that they
reprefented to themfelves Wifdom as a magnificent
and highly adorned Palace, to which there is an Af-
cent by twelve Steps ; and that no one cometh to
the fir{l Step, but from the Lord by ConjunB:ion
with him, and that every one afcendeth according
to ConjunCl:ion, and that a~ he afcends he perceiveth,
that no one is wife from himfelf, but from the Lord :
Alfo that the Things which he knoweth, (japit,)
comparatively with thofe which he doth not know,
are like a few Drops to a great Lake. By the
twelve Steps to the Palace of Wifdom, are fignified
Goodneffes conjoined to Truths and Truths con-
joined to Goodneifes.
37· IV.
_
78 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
37· IV. That },fan, in Proportion as be is more
marly conjoined to the Lord, in thefame Proportion
becometh happier. Tne fame Things which are faid
above, n. 32 to 34, of the Degrees of Life and of
\Vifdom according to ConjunCtion with the Lord,
may alfo be faid of the Degrees of Felicity; for Fe"
li~ities or Beatitudes and Delights afccnd, as the fu-
perior Degrees of the :Mind, \vhich are called fpirit-
ual and celefl:ial, are opened in Man, and thefe De~
grees after his Life in the \Vorld increafe to Eter.
nity.
38. No Man, \vho is in the Delights of the Con.
cupifcences of Evil, can know any thing of the De-
lights of the AffeCtions of Good, in which the An.
gelic Heaven is, for thefe Delights are altogether
oppo!ite to each other in Internals, and thence inte-
riorly in Externals, but in the Surface itfelf there is
but little Difference : For every Love hath its De-
lights, eYen the Love of Evil in thofe who are in
Concupifcences, as the Love of committing Adulte-
ry, of revenging, defrauding, fl:caling, committing
Outrages, yea in the mofl: V/icked of blafpheming
the holy Things of the Church, and fpitting out
their Virulence againfl: God ; the Source of thefe
Delights is the Love of Dominion from the·Love of
Self : Thefe Delights are from the Concupifcences
which poifefs the Interiors of the Mind, flow from
them into the Body, and there excite Uncleanneifes,
which titillate the Fibres ; thence, from the Delight
of the Mind according to its Concupifcences, arifeth
Delight of the Body; of what Kind the unclean
Things are, which titillate the Fibres of their Bod-
ies, it is given every one to know after Death, in the
fpiritual
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 79
fpiritual World; they are in general cadaverous,
excrementitious, H:ercor:1ceous, filthy, and urinous
Matters, for their Hells abound with fuch unclean
Things ; which, that they are Correfpondences, fee
fame Paifages in the Treatife on THE DIVINE LovE
AND THE DIVINE \AlisDoM, n. 422 to 424: But
thefe foul Ddights, after they enter into Hell, are
turned into direful PuniG1ments. Thefe Things
are faiJ, that it may be underfl:ood what is the N a~
ture ofthe Felicity ofHeaven, of which in what now
follows ; for every Thing is kno\Vn from its Op~
pofite.
39· The Beatitudes, Bleif;;dneif..:s, Delights, and
Pleafantneifes, in a Word the Felicities of Heaven,
cannot be defcribed in Words, but in Heaven they
caq be perceived by the Senfe; for \vhat is perceiv-
ed by the Senfe alone, cannot be defcribed, becaufe
it does not come within the Ideas of Thought, and
confequently neither into \V"ords; for the Under~
!landing alone fees, and fees the Things which are
of \Vifdom or of Truth, but not the Things which
are of Love or of Good, wherefore thofe Felicities
are inexpreffible, but fiill they afccnd in a fimilar
Degree with \Vifdom ; the Varieties of them are
i_
nfinite, and each of thefe ineffable : I have heard
this, and I have perceived it. Thefe Felicities how-
ever enter, as Man removeth the Concupifcences of
the Love of Evil and the Falfc, as of himfelf, but
ftill of the Lord, for thofe Felicities are the Felicities
of the Affeaions of Good and Truth, and thefe are
oppofite to the Concupifcences of the Love of Evil
and the Falfe : The Felicities of the AfleCl:ions of
Good and Truth begin from the Lord, therefore
from
8-J ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
from the Inmofl:, and thence diffufe themfelves to
the Infniors, even to the Ultimates, and fo fill the
Angel, and caufe him to be as it were all Delight.
Such Felicities with infinite Varieties, are in every
Affecrion of Good and Truth, efpecially in the Af-
fedion of Wilaom.
40. The Delights of the Concupifcences of Evil,
and the Delights of the AffeB:ions of Good, cannot
be compared, becaufe inwardly in the Delights of
the Concupifcences of Evil the Devil is, and in·
wardly in the Delights of the AffeCtions of Good
the Lord is ; if they are to be compared, the De·
lights of the Concupifcences of Evil can only be
compared with the lafcivious Delights of Frogs in
fi:agnant \¥aters, as alfo of Serpents in Stenches ;
but tr.~-C Delights of the AffeB:ions of Good may be
com?ared to the Delights of the Mind in Gardens
and Shrubberies : For fimilar Things to what affeCt:
Frogs <:nd Serpents, alfo affect thofe in the Hells
who are in the Concupifcences of Evil, and fimilar
Ti1ings to what affeB: the Mind in Gardens and
Shrubberies, alfo affeB: thofe in the Heavens who
are in the Affections of Good : For, as '''as faid
above, corrcfpondent unclean Things affeCt , the
"Wicked, and correfpondent clean Things affeB: the
Good.
41. Hence it may appear, that in Proportion as
any one is more nearly conjoined to the Lord, in
the fame Proportion he becometh happier : But this
Happinefs rarely manifefl:s itfelf in the \Vorld ; be-
caufe 1\'Iari is then in a natural State, and what is
Natural doth not communicate with what is Spirit-
ual by Continuity, but by Correfpo~dences, and this
Communication
TnE DrVtN:E PROVIDtNcE. 81
Communication is only felt by a certain Q:Iid and
Peace of .1\Iind, which is proJuced efpecially after
Combats againfl: Evils : But when 1\lan putteth off
the natural State, and entereth into the fpiritual
State, as is the Cafe after his Departure out of the
\Vorld, then the Fdicity above defcribed fucceffivc-
1
y manifefl:s itfelf.
4-z. V. 'Fbat Mctn, in Proportion as he i.; more
nearly conjoined to tbe Lord, in tbe fame Proportiun
appearetb to bimfelf more db'lin[fly to be bis own, and
pcrceivctb more evidently that be is the Lord's. In
judging fl'om Appearance one would fuppofe, that
by how· much the nearer any one is conjoinetl to the
Lord, by fa much the lefs he is his own ; there is
fuch an Appearance with all the \Vicked, and alfo
with thofe who believe from Religion that they arc
not under the Yoke of the Law, and that no one
can do Good from himfelf; for both thefe Sorts of
Perfons c<1n fee no otherwife, than that not to be at
Liberty to think and to will Evil, but only Good, is
not to be at one's own Difpofal ; and becaufe they
who are conjoinetl to the Lord neithet \\·ill, nor can~
think and will evil, from the Appearance in them-
felves they conclude, that this is to be not their
own ; when neverthelefs it is <lltogethcr the con-
trary.
43· There is infernal Liberty and there i~ celefl:ial.
Liberty ; to think and will Evil is from infernal' Lib-
erty, and fo far as civil and moral Laws do not pre-
vent, to fpeak and do it; but to think and will
Go0d is from ccle!lial Liberty, and fo far as Oppor-
tunity is given, to fpeak and do it : \Vhatfoever
Man think.eth, \Villeth, fpe<\l.~eth, and doeth from.
L Free-\Yill,
82 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNI!\G
Free-\Vill, this he perceiveth as his own, for all
Liberty is derived to l\Ian from his Love ; where-
fore they who are in the Love of Evil, perceive no
otherwife, than that infernal Liberty is.. real Liberty,
but they who are in the Love of Good, perceive that
celefiial Liberty is real Liberty, confcqucntly that its
Oppofite is Servitude to both : Still, however, it
cann<Dt be denied by any, but that one or the other
is Liberty, for two Liberties in themfclves oppofite,
cannot be Liberties ; moreover it cannot be denied,
that to be led by Good is Liberty, and to be led by
Evil is Servitude, for to be led by Good is to be led
by the Lord, and to be led by Evil is to be led by
the Devil: Now forafmuch as every Thing appear-
eth to a Man as his mvn, •vhich he doeth from Free-
Will or Liberty, for this is of his Love, and to aB:
from his Love is to ac( from Liberty, as was faid
above, it follows, that Conjunaion with the Lord
caufeth Man to appear to himfelf free, and confe-
quently his own ; and in Proportion as his Con-
junB:ion is nearer with the Lord, in the fame Pro-
portion freer, and confequently more his own. The
Reafon why he appeareth to himfelf more d!flinll~y to
be his own, is, becaufe the Divine Love is fuch, that
what is its own it willeth to be another's, therefore
to be Man's and Angel's ; all fpiritual Love is fuch,
efpecially Divine Love : And befides the Lord never
forceth any one, becaufc no one Thing, to which any
one is forced appears as his own, and what doth not
appear as his own, cannot be made of his Love, and
fo appropriated to him as his own : vVherefore Man
is led by the Lord continually in Freedom, and alfo
is reformed and regenerated in Freedom. But on
this
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 8,.
.)
this Subjett more w·ill be faid in what follows ;
Something alfo may be feen above, n. 4·
44· The Reafon ho~vever why 1\'lan, by how
much the more difl:inaly he appeareth to himfelf as
his own, by fo much the more evidc:ntly pcr-
ceiveth that he is the Lord's, is, becaufe in Pro-
portion as he is more nearly conjoined to the
Lord, in the fame Proportion he becometh wifer, as
was fhewn above, n. 3+ to 36, and \Vifdom teacheth
this, and he alfo percciveth it : The Angels of the
third Heaven, who are the wifefl: of the Angels, alfo
perceive this, and likewife call it Liberty itfelf; but
to be led by themfelves they call Servitude : They
declare alfo the Reafon of this, viz. that the Lord
doth not flow immediately into the Things which are
of their Perception and Thought from \:Vifdom, but
into the AffeCtions of the Love of Good, and through
the latter into the former, and that they perceive the
Influx in the Affe8:io~, whence is derived their
\Vifdom, and that then all which they think from
\Vifdom, appeareth as from themfeh·es, therefore
as their own ; and that by this, reciprocal Conjunc-
tion is effeeted.
45· Forafmuch as the Divine Providence of the
Lord hath for its End an Heaven out of the Human
Race, it follows that it hath for its End the Con-
junCtion of the Human Race with Irfelf, concerning
which, n. :28 to 3I : Alfo that it hath for its End,
that l\Ian may be more and more nearly conjoined
to It, of which, n. 32, 33, for thus he is an interior
Heaven : As alfo that it hath for its End, that .Man-
by that ConjunCtion nny become wifcr, of which,
n. 34
84 AKGELIC vVISDOM COXCERNI~G
n. 34 to 36 ; and that he may become happier, of
which, n. 37 to 41, becaufe Man poffeifeth Heaven
from \Vifdom, and according to it ; and by it alfo
:Felicity : And lafily, that it hath for its End, that
Man may appear to himfelf more difrinaly as his
own, and frill may perceive more evidently that he
... is the Lord's, of which, n. 42 to 44· All thefe
Things are of the Divine Providence of the Lord,
becaufe all thefe Things confiitute Heaven, which
is the End propofed!
That the Divine Providence of the Lord
in all which it doeth, hath RifpeEt to
what is Infinite and Eternal.
46. IT'is well known in the Chrifl:ian \iVorld,
that God is Infinite and Eternal, for in the
DoCtrine of the Trinity, which hath its Name from
Athanafius, it is faid that God the Father is Infinite,
Eternal, and Omnipotent, in like Manner God the
Son and God the Holy Ghofr, and that neverthelef3
there are not three Infinites, Eternals, and Omnipo.,.
tents, but One: From this it follows, that forafmuch
as God is Infinite and Eternal, Nothing elfe but In-
finite and Eternal can be predicated of God. But
what Infinite and Eternal is, cannot be comprehend,.
ed by Finite, and yet it can ; it cannot be compre-
hended, becaufe Finite is not capable of Infinite ;
p.nd it can be comprehended, becaufe there are given
flbfrract
TnE DrviNE PRoviDENcE. Ss
abfl-.raet Ideas, by which it can be feen that Things
exifl:, although not what their ~ality is; fuch Ideas
are given of Infinite, as that God becaufc he is Infi-
nite, or the Divine becaufe it is Infinite, is Effe itfelf~
that it is Eifence aqd Subflance itfelf, that it is Love
irfelf and vVifdom itfelf, or that it is Goodnefs itfelf
and Truth itfelf, therefore that it is Itfelf, ( Ipfum,)
yea that it is Man himfelf or perfea Man ; as ::.Uo ·
if it be faid that Infinite is All, thus that Infinite
\Vifdom is Omnifcience, and Infinite Power is Om-
"' nipotence. But {l:ill thefe Things fall but obfcureljr
\vithin the Thought, and from being incomprchen-
fible perhaps come to be denied, unlefs the Thing;;
which Thought deriveth from Nature, be abftraCted
from the Idea, efpecially what it deri\'eth from tho!e
two Things proper to Nature·, Space and Time, for
thefe cannot but end or terminate Ideas, and caufe ab-
ilraCt Ideas to be, as it were, not any Thing : But if
thefe can be abftratl:ed by Man, as they are by an
Angel, then Infinite can be comprehended by the
Things aboYe recited ; and it can affo be compre-
hended that lV!an is Something, becaufe he was cre-
ated by an Infinite God, who is All j alfo that Man
is a finite Subihnce, becaufe he was created by an
Infinite God, who is Subfl:ance itfelf ; as alfo, that
1\hn is \:Vifdom, becaufe he was created by an Infi-
nite God, who is Wifdom itfelf, and fo on ; for un-
lefs the Infinite God were All, Subllance itfelf, and
\Vifdom itfelf, Man would not be any Thing, there-
fore he would either be Nothing, or only an Idea of
being, or an ideal Being, according to thofe Vifiona-
ries, who are called Idealifl:s. From what is !hewn
in the Treatife on TIIE DrviNE LovE AND TH£
DlVH\E
86 A~GELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
DIVINE 'WisDoM, it is evident, That the Divine
Eifence is Love and \Vi!dom, ·n. 28 to 39· That
the Divine Love and the Divine Wifdom is Sub-
france itfelf and Form itfelf; and that it is Self-Sub-
fifting ~nd Sole-Subfifling, n. 40 to 46. And that
God...created the Univerfe and all Things therein
from Himfelf, and not from Nothing, n. 282 to 284;
thence it follows, that every created Thing, and ef-
pecially 1\1an, and in him Love and Wifdom, are
Something, and not only an Idea of Being [ld(a
quodjint ; ] for if God was not Infinite, there would
be no Finite ; alfo if Infinite was not All, there
would not be any Thing ; and if God had not
created all Things out of Himfelf, there would be
Nothing: In a Word, vVE ARE BECAUSE Gon Is.
47· Now forafmuch as the Divine Providence is
the SubjeCt here treated of, and it is intended in this
Article to :lhew how it hath RefpeB: to what is In-
finite and Eternal in whatever .it doeth, and this
cannot be fet forth diflincrly, except in a certain
Order ; therefore that Order ihall be as follows :
I. That what is Infinite in itfelf and Eternal in itfelf
is the fame with what is Divine. II. That what is
Infinite and Eternal in itfelf cannot but have Rcfpeet
to what is Infinite from itfelf in Finites. III. That
the Divine Providence in all that it deeth, hath
Rcfpecr to what is Infinite and Eternal from itfelf,
cfpecially in bving the Human Race. IV. That
an Image of \vhat is Infinite and Eternal· exifis in
the Angelic Heaven from the Human Race faved.
V. That to have RefpeCt to what is Infinite and
Eternal in forming the Angelic Heayen, that it may
be before the Lord as one Man, y;ho is his Image,
lS
THE DIVIXE PROVIDENCE. 87
is the Intimum (inmoft End or Purpofe) of the Di-
vine Providence.
48. I. Tbat 'i.vbat is Injinite in i~(elj and Eternal ile
iife!J, h the fame -:uitb wbat is Divine, m:1y appear
from what is fhewn in .many Piaces in the Treatife
on THE DIVINE LovE AND THE DIVINE \VrsnoM.
That what is Infinite in itfelf and Eternal in itfclf is
Divine, is grounded in the Idea of the Angels, the
Angels me::ming by lnfin;te no other than the Di-
vine Eife, and by Eternal the Divine Exiftence. "
But that what is Infinite in itfclf, and Eternal in it-
felt, is Divine, can be feen, and cannot be feen by
Men; it can be feen by thofe who think of Infinite
not from Space, and of Eternal not from Time;
but it cannot be feen by thofe y,:ho think of Infinite
and Eternal from Space and Time; therefore it can
be feen by thofe, who think more elevatedly, that
is, more interiorly in the Rational [Mind], bm it
cannot be feen by thofe whofe Thought is lower,
that is, more exterior. They, by whom it can be
feen, think tht~.t Infinity of Space cannot exill:, there-
fore neither Infinity of Time, which is the Eternal
from whom all Things are, becaufe Infinite is with-
put a firit and laft End, or without Bounds : They
think alfo, that neither can there exift Infinite from
itfelf, becaufe from itfelf fuppofeth a Bound and Be-
ginning, or a Prior from which it is derived ; confe-
quemly, that it is a vain Thing to fay Infinite and
Eternal from itfelf, becaufe that would be like fay-
ing Effe from itfelf, which is contradiEtory, for Infi-
nite from itfelf would be Infinite from lnfmitc::, and
Eife from itfelf would be Etfe from Eife, and that In-
finite and Effe would either be the fame with Infi-
l1ite
88 ANGELIC \tVISDOM CONCERNiNG
nite or it would be Finite. From thefe and fuch
like Confiderations, which can be feen interiorly in
the Rational [Mind], it is evident that thei"e exifl:-
eth Infinite in itfdf, and Eternal in itfelf, and that
both are the Divine, from which all Things are.
49· I know that many will fay with thcmfelves,
how can any one comprehend interiorly in his Ra-
tional [Mind] any thing without Space and with-
out Time, and that this not only is, but alfo that it
is All, and that it is the very Thing, from \vhich all
Things are derived; but think interiorly, ·whether
Love or any Affeaion thereof, or \Vifdom or any
Perception thereof, yea whether Th~mght is in Space
and in Time, and you will find that they an; not ;
and whereas the Divine is Love itfelf and \Vifdom
itfelf, ir follows that the Divine cannot be concei\'ed
in Space and in Time, therefore neither can Infinite ;
That this may be more clearly perceived, confider
whether Thought is in Time and Space; fuppofe a
Progreilion of it of ten or twelve Hours, may not
this Space of Time appear as of one or two Hours~
and may it not alfo appear as of one or two Days,
inafmuch as it appears according to the State of the
AfFeEtion from which the Thought is derived ; ifit
is an AffeEtion of Joy, in which Time is not
thought of, the Thought of ten or twelve Hours is
fcarcely of one or two; but the reverfe happens if
the AfFcEtion is of Grief, in which Time is attend·
ed to; thence it is eYident, that Time is only an
A ppearancc according to the State of AffeCtion
from which Thought is derived; it is the fame with
the Dithnce of Space in Thought, whether in walk-
ing, or in going a Journey.
so. Forafmuch
Tu:E DIVINE Pr-.ovmr::~cE. 89
so. Forafmuch as Angels and Spirits Jre Affec-
tions which arc of Love, and Thoughts thence deri-
ved, therefore neither arc they in Space and Time,
but only in the Appearance thereof; the Appear-
ance of Space and Time is to them according to the
States of the Affetlions and thence ofthe Thoughts:
'\Vherefore when any. one thinks of another from
Affetlioa, intently defiring to fee him, or fpeak with
him, the other aCtually prefents himielf. Hence it
is, that there are prefent with every 1\lan Spirits,
who are in a fimilar AffeCI:ion with him, evil Spirits
with him ,\·ho is in the AffeCtion of fimilar EYil,
and good Spirits with him who is in the Affc:Cl:!oa
of fimilar Good; and they are as prefcnt as any.
one is with Company !hut up in the fame Room :
Space and Time contribute Nothing to Prefence, by
Reafon that AffeCtion and its confequent Thought
are not in Space and Time, and Spirits and Angels
are AffeCl:ions, and Thoughts dc::rived from them.
That this is the Cafe, hath been gi\'en me to know
from lively Experience of feveral Years ; and alfo
from this Circumfrance, that I have converfed with
many after Death, as well with thofe in Europe and
its various Kingdoms, as with thofe in Afia and
Africa, and their various Kingdoms, aml they \Vere
all near me ; whereas if they had been in Space
and Time, a Journey mufl:. have intervened, ancl
Time for that Journey. Yea, every Man knoweth
this to be fo from Somewhat inherent in himfelf or
in his Mind, as was proved to me by this Confider-
ation, that no one thought of any Diflancc of Space,
when I related that I had converfed "v'l'ith any one
who died in Afia, Africa, or Europe, as for Exam~
M p!e,
•
90 ANGELIC v\TISDOM CONCERNING
ple, with Calvin, Luther, MelanB:hon, or with any
King, Governor, or Priefi in a remote Country, and
it did not even enter into their Thought to aik, How
could he converfe with thofe who lived there, and
how could they come to him and be prefent, ·when
neverthelefs Lands and Seas intervene? From this
Confideration alfo it \Vas evident to me, that no one
thinks from Space and Time, when he thinks -of
thofe who are in the fpiritual \Vorld. That never-
thelefs they have an Appearance of Space and Time;
may be fcen in the \Vork on HEAVEN AND HELL7
n. 162 to 169, 191 to 199·
51. From thefe Confiderations then it may ap-
pear, that Infinite and Eternal, confequently the
Lord, is to be thought of without Space and Time,
and that he c~n fo be thought of, alfo that lie is fo
thought of by thofe \vho think interiorly in the Ra~
tional [Mind], and that then Infinite and Eternal is
the fame with the Divine : Thus do Angels and
Spirits think : By Virtue of Thought abfhafted
from Time and Space is comprehended the Divine
Omniprefence and the Divine Omnipotence, alfo
the Divine from Eternity, and not at all by Thought,
in which an Idea from Space and Time is inherent.
H.ence it is evident, that God from Eternity can. be
thought of, but never Nature from Eternity; confe-
quently that the Creation of the Univerfe by God
can be, thought of, and not any Thing at all of
Creation from Nature, for Space and Time are prop·
er to Nature, but the Divine is without them. That
the Divine is with~ut Space and Time, may be fecn
in the Treatiii;: on THE DIVINE LovE AND THE
D1VlNE
•
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 9'1
DIVINE 'VIsDoM, n. 7 to zc, 69 to 72, 73 to 76,
and elfewhere.
52. li. Cfhat 'ivbat is !t!finite and Eternal in itfc!f,
tamzot but have ReJPcCl to what is fnjinite and Eternal
from itfi'lfin Finites. By Infinite and Eternal in itfelf
is meant the Divine itfelf, as was fhewn in the
preceding Article ; by Finites are mean! all Things
created from the Di\'ine, and efpecially Men, Spirits,
and Angels ; and to have RefpeB: to Infinite and
Eternal from itfelf, is to refpeB: the Divine, that is
Bimfelf in them, as a Man refpeB:eth or beholdeth
his Image in a Glafs: That this is the Cafe, is fhewn
abundantly in the Treatife on THE DIVINE Lov.E
AND THE DIVINE 'VISDOM, efpecially where it is
demonfrratcd, that in the created Univerfe there is
an Image of Man, and that it is an Image of what
is Infinite and Etermtl, n. 317, JI8, therefore an
Image of God the Creator, that is, ofthe Lord from
Eternity. But it is to be underfrood, that the Divine
in itfelf is in the Lord, but the Divine from itfelf is
the Divine from the Lord in Things created.
53· But for the better Underfranding of this, it
may be expedient to illufrrate it: The Divine cannot
refpeB: or regard any Thing but what is Divine, and
it cannot regard or fee what is Divine any whe:-e
elfe but in Things created from ltfelf; that this is
the cafe, is evident from this Confideration, that no
one can refpeC't another but from his own in himfelf;
he who loveth another, refpeB:eth him from his own
LoYe in himfelf; he who is wife, refpetJ:eth another
from his O\o:'n \Vifdom in himfelf; he may fee in-
deed that the other either loveth him or doth not
~ove him, ~lfo that either he is wife or is not wife;
but
•
92 ANGELIC \V1sDOM CONC.ER~ING
but this he fee~h from Love and f:om \Vifdom i11
himfelt~ wherefore he fo far conjoineth himfclf to
him as the other loveth himfelf as he loveth him, or
fo far as the other is wife like himfelf, for fo they aa
as one. It is the fame \\'ith the Divine in itielf, for
the Divine in irfelf c::mnot rcfpecr or fee itfelf from
another, as from a Man, Spirit, or Angel ; for they
have Nothing of the all"creating Divine in itfelf: and
to fee the Divine from another, in which there i~
Nothing of the Divine, would be to fee the Divine
from no Divine, which is not po!li~le: Hence it is,
that the Lord is fo conjoined to Man, Spirit, and An~
gel, that all, which hath Relation to the Divine, i;;
not from them but fron1 the Lord: For it is a known
Thing, that all the Good and all the True \vhich any
one halh, is not from himfelf but from the Lord ;
yea that not :my one can even name the Lord, or
pronounce his Names Jefus and Ghriil:, but from
Him. Hence then it follo-ws, that Infinite and Eter.
nal, which is the fame with the Divine, refpeCleth
all Things infinitely in Finites·, and that it conjcineth
itfelf to them according to the Degree of the Recep-
tion of Wifdom and Love in them. In a Word, the
Lord cannot have his Manfron and dwell in Man and
Angel, but in his O\m, and not in their Proprium,
for th::~t is Evil, and if it \vere Good, Il:ill it is Finite,
which in itfelf and ft:om itfelf is not capable of Infi-
nite. From thefe Confrderations it is evident, that
it can never be, that Finite can fee Infinite, but that
it can be, that Infinite can fee Infinite from itfelf in
Finites.
54· It appears as if Infinite could not be conjoined
tP Finite, pt:p~fe th~re is no Proportion between In,-
finite
•
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 93
finit~ anJ Finite, and becaufe Finite is not capable
of Infinite, but neverthelefs ConjunCtion is given, as
well becaufe Infinite out of itfelf created all Things,
according to what is fhewn in the Treatife on THE
DrviNE LovE AND THE DrvrNE Wrsnol'lr, n. 282
to 284, as becaufe Infinite cannot refpeCl: any Thing
elfe in Finites but Infinite from itfelf~ and that this
can appear with Finites as in them ; thus there is
given a Ratio between Finite and Infinite, not from
·. Finite, but from Infinite in Finite ; and alfo thus
Finite is capable of Infinite, not l'inite in itfclf, but
as in itfelf, originating in Infinite from itfelf in it.
But of this more in what now follows.
55· III. That the Divine Providence in all that it
doetb, hath Rejpe[l to what is h!finite and Eternalfrom
itfdf, efpecially in fa·ving the Human Race. Infinite
and Eternal in itfelf is the Divine itfelf, or the Lord
in himfelf; but Infinite and Eternal from itfelf, is
the proceeding Divine, or the L01d in others creat-
ed out of himfelf, therefore in lVIen and in Angels,
and this Divine is the fame with the Divine Provi-
dence; for the Lord by the Divine from himfelf
provideth, that all Things may be contained in the
Order, in which, and for which, they were created;
and forafmuch as the proceeding Divine operates
this, it follows that all that is the Divine Providence.
56. That the Divine Providence hath HefpeEt
in all that it doeth to what i~ Infinite and Eternal
from itfclf, may appear from this Confideration,
that every created Thing from the }'irfr, which is
Infinite and Eternal, proceedeth to lJltimates, and
from Ultimates to the Firfr from whom it proceed-
~d, as was !hewn in the Treatife concerning THE
DIVINE
•
•
94 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
DiviNE LovE AND THE DrviNE \lvisnoM, in the
Part where the Creation of the Univerfe is treated
of; and forafmuch as in all its Progreffion, the Firfl:,
from \vhom it is derived, exifl:s intimately, it follows
that the proceeding Divine or the Divine Provi-
dence in all that it doeth refpeeteth fome Image of
what is Infinite and Eternal ; this it refpeeteth in
all Things, but in fame to the Evidence of Percep-
tion, but in others not; it prefenteth that Image to
the Evidence of Perception in the Variety of all
Things, and in the FruCtification and Multiplication
ofall Things.· An·Ima;e of~ubat is l1!finite andEter-
nal in the Variety of all 'Things appears in this, that
there doth not exift any one Thing the fame with
another, neither can exiO: to Eterni~y: This is man-
ifeft to tne Eye in'the Faces of Mt>n from the firft.
Creation, therefore alfo from their Minds, of which
their Faces are the Types, and alfo from their Affec-
tions, Perceptions, and Thoughts, for of thefe the
Mind confifl:s. Hence it is, that there do not exift.
in the univerfal Heaven two Angels or two Spirits
the fame, yea neither can there exift to Eternity :
The like is true in Regard to every ObjeCt: of Sight
in both \Vorlds, as well the natural as the fpiritual :
Hence it may appear, that the Variety is Infinite and
Eternal. An Image ofwhat is b!.finite and Eternal in
the FruB!fication and Multiplication ofall 'Tbings, is
evident from the Faculty inherent in Seeds in the
Yegetable Kingdom, and in Prolification in the ani-
mal Kingdom, and efpecially from the Spawn of
Fifhes, thaf if they \vere to fruCtify and multiply ac-
cording to their Faculty, in an Age they would fill
the ppaces of ~he whole \Vorld, yea ofthe Univerfe;
fro1n
•
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 9.5
, from which Confideration it is e'·ident, that in that
Faculty there lieth concealed an Effort to propagate
itfelf ad !J!finitum: And forafmuch as Frucrifications
and Multiplications have not failed from the Begin-
ning of Creation, neither will fail to Eternity, it fol-
lows that in that Faculty there is alfo an Effort to
propagate itfelf to Eternity.
57. It is the fame in l\'len as to their AffeB:ions
which are of Love, and their Perceptions which
are of Wifdom? the Variety of both thefe is Infinite
and Eternal; in like Manner their Fruuifications
and Multiplications, which are fpiritual: No Man
poffe!feth AffeB:ion ;md Perception fo like another,
as to be the fame, neither is it poilible to Eternity :
Moreover Affecrions can be frucrified and Percep-
tions multiplied without End ; that Sciences can
never be exhaufled, is \vell known. This Faculty
of Frucrification and Multiplication without End,
or to Infinity and Eternity, exifls in Things natural
with Men, in Things fpiritual with fpiritual Angels,
and in Things cel~ftial with celeO:ial Angels. Af~
fecrions, Perceptions, and Knowledges, are fuch not
only in general, but alfo every, even the.lcafl: Thing
conftituem thereof, in particular. They are fuch,
~ecaufe they exifr from what is Infinite and Eternal
in itfelf by what is Infinite and Eternal from itfelf.
But forafmuch as Finite hath not any Thing of the
Divine in itfelf, therefore there is not any Thing
Divine, yea not the leafr, in l\lan or Angel as his
mvn, for Man and·.Angel is finite, and only a Re-
ceptacle, in itfelf dead; his living [Faculty] is from
the proceeding Divine joined to him by Contiguity,
which
96 ANGELIC VVISDOM CONCERNING
;vhich appeareth to him as his own. That this is
the Cafe, will be feen in what follows.
58. The Ground and Reafon why the Divine
Providence refpeB:eth what is Infinite and Eternal
from itfelf, efpecially in faving the Human Race, is,
becaufe the End of the Divine Providence is to form
a Heaven out of the Human Race, as was !hewn
above, n. 37 to 4S; and whereas this is the End, it
follows, that it is the Reformation and Regenera~
t.ion of Man, therefore his Sah·ation~ which the Di-
vine Providence efpecially regardeth, in:1fmuch as
Heaven exifl:s from thofe w·ho are faYed or regene-
rate. And whereas to regenerate Man is to unite
Good and Truth in him, or Love and \Vifdom1 as
they a!."e united in the Divine which prvceedeth
from the Lord, therefore the Divine Providence ef-
pecial!y regardeth this in faving the Human Race;
the Image of what is Infinite and Eternal is no where
elfe in Man but in the Marriage of Good and Truth.
That the proceeding Divine eJre8:eth this in the Hu-
man Race, is known from thofc;, who being filled
with the proceeding Divine, which is called the Holy
Ghofl, have prophefied, of whom Mention is made
in the .\Vord; and from thofe, who being illumina-
ted fee Divine Truths in the Light of Heaven; ef-
pecially in the Angels, who fenfibly perceive the
Prefence, Influx, and Conjunction thereof; but they
perceive alfo, that this Conjunction is no other than
what may be called AdjunCtion.
59· It hath not heretofore been kno\>"11 that the
Divine Providence, in all its Progrefiion with Man,
hath Refpea to, or regardeth his eternal State;
for it cannot regarJ any Thing elfc, becaufe the
Divine
Divine is Infinite and Eternal, and Infinite and E-
ternal, or the Divine, is not in Time, and confc-
quently all Things future are prefent to it; and for-
afmuch as the Divine is fuch, it follows, that in all
and every Thing which it effefteth, there is Eternal.
But they who think from Time and Space, with
Difficulty perceiYe this, not only becaufe they love
temporal Things, but alfo becaufe they think from
what is prefent in the World, and not from what
is prefent in Heaven, this latter being as abfent from
them as !he End of the Earth: Bi.1t they who are
in the Divine, t~ink alfo from what is Eternal when
they think from the prefent, becaufe they think
from the Lord, faying with themfelves; What is that
which is not Eternal? is not Temporal comparative-
ly as Nothing, and doth it not al{o become Noth-
ing-when it is ended? Not fo Eternal, which alone
Is, becaufe its Being hath no End ; to think thus,
is to think at the fame Time from wh<!t is Eternal
while thinking from the prefent; and when Man fo
thinketh, and at rhe fame Time fo liveth, then the
proceeding Divine in him, or the Divine Provi-
dence, in all its Progreffion refpecreth the State of
his eternal Life in Heaven, and leadeth him to it.
That the Divine in every Man, as well evil as good,
regardeth what is eternal, will be feen in what fol-
lows.
6o. IV. '!'hat an Image of what is hifinite and
Eternal is extant in tbe Angelic Hea•ven. Among the
Things which are nece!fary to be known, the Angelic
Heaven is alfo one, for every one, who hath any Re-
ligion, thinketh of Heaven, and wifheth to go thith-
~r; but Heaven is not given to any but thofe, \vho
N kno\V
ANCELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
· know 'the \Vay to it, and walk therein ; this vVa:y ·
may alfo in fome Meafure be known from a Know}-
edge of the Nature and ~ality of thofe who con-
ilitute Heaven, and that no one becometh an Angel,
or goeth to Heaven, but he who carrieth the Angelic
[Principle] with him out of the \Vorld, in \Yhich
Angelic Principle there is a Kno\vledge of the \Vay
Jerived from walking in it, and a \Valking in the
Way through a Knowledge of it. In the fpiritua!
' \Vurld alfo there are atl:ually \Vays, which tend to
every Society of Heaven, and to every Society of
Hell ; and every one feeth his \Vay as from him-
felf ; the Ground and Reafon why he feeth is, be-
caufe there are 'Nays there for every Love, and the
Love openeth them, and leadeth to its A!fociates ;
no one feeth any other \Vays than thofe of his own
Love : },rom this Confideration it is evident, that
Angels are no other than celefiial Loves, for other-
'l.vife they would not have feen the \Vays tending to
Heaven. But this may appear more clearly from a
Defcription of Heaven.
6 r. Every Spirit of Man is Affection and Thought
thence derived, and forafmuch as every Affection is
of Love, and Thought is of the Underfl:anding, eve-
ry Spirit is his ownLove and his own Underfl:anding;
which is the Reafon that when a l\1an thinketh only
from his Spirit, as is the Cafe when he meditates <Jfll:
Home with himfelf, he thinketh from the ilffeEtioa
vvhich is of his Love ; hence it may appear, that
Man, when he becometh a Spirit, as is the Cafe ;r[.
ter Death, is the Affection of his Love, and no oth-
er Thought but what is of his AffeCtion ; he is an
evil AffeCtion, which is Cupidity, if he hath beeR
principled
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 99
principled in the Love of Evil, and a good Affec~
tion, if he hath been principled in the Love of Good ;
and every one hath a good AffeCtion, as h~ hath
fhunned Evils as Sins, and every one hath an evil
AffeCtion, as he hath not fo !hunned Evils. . Now
forafmuch as all Spirits and Angels are Afre£tions,
it is evident that the univerfal Angelic Heaven is
Nothing but the Love of all the Affeaions of Good,
and thence the \iVifdom of all the Perceptions of
Truth ; and forafmuch as all Good and Truth is •
from the Lord, and the Lord is Love itfelf and
Wifdom itfelf, it follows, that the Angelic Heaven
is the Image of Him ; and forafmuch as the Divine
Love and the Divine \Vifdom in its Form is a Man,
it alfo follows, that the Angelic Heaven cannot be
otherwife than 'in fuch a Form: But more will be
faid of this in the following Article.
62. The Ground and Reafon why the Angelic
Heaven is an Image of what is Infinite and Et1=rnal,
is, bec::J.ufe it is an Image of the Lord, and the Lord
is Infinite and Eternal. The Image of his Infinity
and Eternity appears in this, that there are Myriads
of Myriads of Angels, of which Heaven confifts, and.
that they confl:itute as many Societies as there are
general AffeCtions of celt:fl:ial Love, and that each
Angel in every Society is diilinftly his own Affec.,
tion ; and that from fo many AffeCtions in general
~md in particular the Form of Heaven exifl:s, which
is as one before the Lord, juil as a Man is.one; and
that this Form is perfeCted to Eternity according to
Plurality, for in Proportion as more enter the Form
of the DiYine Love, which is the Form of Forms,
iq. the fame Proportion the Union is more perfcB:.
From
IOO ANGELIC 'VISDOM CON~E.RNING
From thefe Confiderations it manifefily appears, that
an Image, of what is Infinite and Eternal is extant
in the Angelic Heaven.
63. Fro·m the Knowledge of Heaven given by
this fhort Defcription, it is evident, that the Affec:-
tion, which is of the Love of Good, con!litutes
Heaven in Man : But who knoweth this at this
Day? Yea, who knoweth what tl}e AffeB:ion of
the Love of-Good is, alfo that the Affections of the
Love of Good ~re innumerable? yea, infinite ? For,
as hath been obferyed, every Angel is diftinB:ly his
own Affection, and the Form of Jieaven is the Form
pf all the Affettiqns of the Divine ~ove there. No
other can unite all thefe AffeB:ions into this Form,
but He who is Love itfelf and at the fame Time
'\Vifdom itfelf, and at once Infinite and Eternal ;
for Infinite and Etern,al is in all of the Form, Infi-
nite in its Conjunction, and Eternal in its Perpetu-
ity ; if Infinite and Eternal were taken away from.
it, it would fall in Pieces in a Moment : ·who elfe
~an unite. Affetti~ns into Form? ye~, who elfe can
unite one Confrituent thereof ? for one Confl:ituent
thereof cannot ~e united but froni the univerfal Idea
of all, and the unjverfal Idea of all from the partic:-
ular Idea of each : There are Myr~ads of Myriads
who compofe that Form, and there are Myriad$
who enter it every Year, and will do fo to Eternity:
All Infants enter it, and as many Adults as there are
Affettions of the Love of Good. From thefe Con-
fiderations again may be feen an Image of what is
Infinite and Eternal in the Angelic Heaven.
64. V. 'That to rifpcfl what is lrifinite and Eternal
in forming the Angelic Heaven, that it may be before
' tbe
THE DIVINE ' PROVIDENCE. IOI
the Lord as one Man, wbich is his Image, is the lnti-
mum [inmqfl End or Purpofe] of the Di·vinc Provi-
dence. That the univerfal Heaven is as one Man
before the Lord, and it~ like Manner every Society
in Heaven, and that hence it is, tho.t every .Angel is
~n a perfeQ: human Form, anc.l that this is the Cafe,
pecaufe God the Cre«.tor, who is the Lord from
Eternity, is a Man, may be feen in the Work on
HEAVEN AND HELL, n. 59 to 86. .Alfo that hence
~here is a Correfpondence of all Things of Heaven
with all Th~ngs of Man, n. 87 to 102. That the
univerfal Heaven is as one 1'4an, hath not been f.ccn
py me, becaufe th~ univerfal Heaven cannot be feen
by any but the l,ord only ; but that an entire Soci-
ety of Heaven, greater or Ieifer, appeareth <}S one
Man, hath fomei:imes been f~en, and then .it was
~old me, that the greatefl: Society, which is Hea-ven
in its whole Complex, appeareth in like Manner,
put before the Lord ; and that this is the Reafon
why every Ange~ is in all the particulars of his
Form, a Man.
65· Forafrnuch as the univerfal Heaven in the
Sight of the Lord is as one Man, therefore Heaven
~s diflinguifhed into as many common Societies as
there are Organs, Vifcera, and Mefi1bers in Man ;
and each common Society into as many lefs com-
mon or particular Societies, as there are larger Parts
in each Vifcus or Organ : from which Conlldcra~
tion it is evident what Heaven is. Now forafmuch
as the Lord is perfetl: l\1an, and Heavrn is the ]mage
of Him, therefore to be in Heaven, is ca!led being
in t,he Lord ; that the Lord is perfeCt Man, may
pe feen in the Treatife on THE DIVINE LovE
AND
102 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
AND THE DIVINE WisDoM, n. II to 13, n. 285
to 289.
66. From thefe Confiderations this Arcanum,
which may be called Angelic, may in fome Meafure
be fecn, that every Affeaion of Good, and at
the fame Time of Truth, in its Form is Man ; for
whatfoever proceedeth from the Lord, deriveth from
his Divine Love that it is an AiTeaion of Good, and
from his Divine \Vifdom that it is an AffeCl:ion of
Truth. The AffeCl:ion of Truth, which proceedeth
from the Lord, appears as Perception, and thence
Thought of Truth in Angel and Man, by Reafon
that Perception and Thought are attended to, and
the Affeaion from which they proceed but little,
which neverthelefs proceeds from the Lord with th~
Affeaion of Truth as one.
67. Now forafmuch as Man by Creation is a
Heaven in its leafl: Form, and thence an Image of
the Lord; and forafmuch as Heaven confi!ls of as
many AiTefrions as there are Angels, and every Af-
feaion in its Form is a Man, it follows, that it is a
Continuum (continual Operation or Endeavour) of
the Divine Providence, that Man may be made a
H eaven in Form, and thence an Image of the Lord;
and forafmuch as this is done by the AffeCl:ion of
Good and Truth, it is a Continuum of the Divine
Providence that Man fnould be made that Affeaion :
This therefore is the Continuum of the Divine
Providence ; but its lntimum (inmofi End or Pur-
pofe) is, that Man fhould be in this or that Society
in Heaven, or in this or.that Part in the Divine ce-
Je!lial Man, for fo he is in the Lord. But this is ef-
feCl:ed with thofe, whom the Lord can lead to Heav-
en;
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. I03
en ; and \vhereas the Lord forefeeth this, he alfo
continually provideth that Man ihould be made
fuch ; for fo every one, who fuifereth himfelf to
be led to Heaven, is prepared for his Place in
Heaven.
68. Heaven, :1.s was faid above, is divided into as
many Societies, as there are Organs, Vifcera, and
Members in M;:m, and in thefe, no one Part can be
in any other Place than its own: Since therefore
Angels are fuch Parts in the Divine celeftial Man,
and no others are made Angels but fuch as had
been Men in the World, it follows, that the Man
who fuffers himfelf to be led to Heaven, is continu•
ally prepared by the Lord for his Place, which i:>
done by fuch an AffeCl:ion of Good and Truth a3
correfponds thereto : Into this Place alfo every Man
Angel, after his Departure out of the vVorld, is en..
rolled. This is the Intimum of the Divine Providence
' concerning Heaven.
6g. But the Man who doth not fuffer himfelf to
be led to, and enrolled in Heaven, is prepared for
his Place in Hell; for Man from himfelf continu-
ally tends to the lowefi Hell, but is continually with-
held by the Lord; and he, who cannot be with-
held, is prepared for a certain Place "there, in which
he is alfo enrolled immediately after his Departure
out of the \Vorld ; and this Place there is oppofite
to a certain Place in Heaven, for Hell is in Oppofi-
tion to Heaven ; wherefore as a J:,hn Angel, ac-
cording to the AfFeB:ion of Good and Truth, hath
his Place affigned him in Heaven, fo a Ma!l Devil,
according to the Affection of Evil and the Falfe,
hath his Place ailigned him in Hell ; for two Op-
pofite~,
I04 ANGELIC \\TrsDOM CONCERNING
pofites, difpofed in a fimilar Situation againfl: each
other, are contained in Connexion. 'This is the
Intithum of th~ Divine Providence concernin~
Hell.
I Yzat there are Laws if the Divine Prov~
idence, which ate unknown to Men~
70. T
' HAT there is- a Divine Providence, is
known, but what the Nature-of it is, is'
not known. The Ground and Reafon why it is-
not known what the Nature of the Divine Provi--
dence ig, is becaufe its-Laws are fecret, hitherto hid
in \Vifdom among the Angels, but now to be reveal.
ed, in Order that that may be afcribed to· the Lord
'~hich is His, and not to any Man that which is not
his : For mofl: People in the \Vorld attribute aU
Things to thcmfelves, and to their own Prudence,.
arid what they cannot fo attribute, they call Acci.;
dents and Contingencies, not knowing that human:
Prudence is Nothing, and that Accidents and Con•
tingencies are vain \Vords. It is faid that the LaWS'
of the Divine Providence are Arcana, hitherto hid
in \Vifdom among the Angels ; the Reafon is, be-
caufe in the Chrifl:ian \Vorld the Underfl:anding in
Things Divine is clofed by Religion, and hence it is
become fo dull and refl:ive in fuch Things, that
Man co~ld not, becaufe he would not, or would not
becaufe he could not, underfl:and any Thing elfe of
' the
THE . DIVINE PRoV_
IDENct::. tos
the Divine Providence than barely that it exifrs,
and reafon whether it doth exii1 or not, as likewife
whether it is only univerfal, or particular alio; the
Underfi:anding clofcd up by Religion in Things Di-
vine could proceed no further. But foraftnuch as
it is acknowledged in the Church, that Man can-
not from\ himielf do Good which in itfdf is really
(
Good, neither c<Jn from himfelf thiuk. 'l ruth which
in itfelf is really True, and thefe are one with the
Divine Providence, fo that a Belief in one depends
upon a Beliefin the other, therefore lefr one fhou!J
be affirmed and the other denied, and fo both fall
to the Ground, it is fully to be revealed, what the
Divine Providence is : This however cannot be re-
vealed, unlefs the Laws are difclofed, by which the
Lord proviJes and governs what rei.ates to the "\\Till
and Underfl:anding of Man ; for thefe La\vs enable
Man to know the Nature and Q:lality of Providence,
and whofo knoweth the Nature and Q:lality of Prov-
idence, he and no other can acknowledge it, for in
fuch Cafe he feeth it : This is the Reafon, why the
Laws of the Divine Providence, hitherto hid m
\Vifdom among the Angels, are now revealed.
0 That
106 ANGELIC \VISD01'.1 CONCER~lNG
That it is a Law cf tlze Divine PTovz:
dence, that Man jhould actfrom Lib..
e1ty ac-:ordinlJ to Reajon.
7I . ~HAT Man hath the Libetty of thinking'
J... and wiiling as he pleafeth, but not the!
Jjbeny of fpeaking whatfoever he thinketn, nor the
liberty of doing whatfoever he willeth, is well
known: \Vherefore the Liberty, which'is here un-
derfl:ood, is fpiritual Liberty, and not natural Liber-
ty, except when they make one ; for to think and to
will is fpiritual, but to fpeak and to aB: is natural:·
They are difl:inguilhed atfo manifefi:ly in Man ; for
Man can think what he doth not fpeak, and will
what he doth not acr; from i.vhich Confideration
it is evident, that what is fpiritual and what is nat-
ural in Man are difcriminated, wherefore Man can~
not pafs from one to the other, but by D.::termina-
tion ; which Determination may be compared to a
Door, which is firfl to be ihut and opened; but this
Door fiarrds as it were open in thofe who think and
will from Reafon according to the civil Laws of the
Kingdom and the moral Laws of Society, for thefe
fpeak what they think, and do what they will; but
this Door fl:ands as it were ihut in thofe who think
and will contrary to thofe Laws: He who attend-
eth to his \Vilis and confequent AB:s, will perceive
that fuch a Determination intercedeth, and fome~
times feveral Times in one Difcourfe, and in one Ac·
tion. This is premifed, in Order that it may be
known,
THE DIVINE PROVIDEXCE. !07
known, that by aCting from Liberty according to
Reafon, is meant to think and will freely, and thcnc~
to fpeak and do freely, what is according to Rca-
fen.
72, But fort_tfmuch as there are few who know,
that this Law can be a Law of the Divine ProYi-
dence, efpecially for this Reafon, becaufe hereby
Man hath alfo the Liberty of thinking what is E-
,,il and Falfe, and yet the Divine Providence contin-
ually leadeth l\hn to think and will what is Good
and True, therefore for the clearer Perception how
this is, we {hall proceed difHnaiy, and according to
the follovving Order: I. That Man hath Reafon
and Free-\Vill, or Rationality and Liberty; and that
thefe two Faculties are from the Lord in Man. II.
That whatfoever a Man doeth fr<"ml Liberty, \Yheth-
er it be of Reafon or not of Reafon, provided it be
according to his Reafon, appeareth to him as his
own. III. That whatfoever Man do'eth from Liber-
ty, according to his Thought, is appropriated to
him as his own, and remaineth. IV. That
1\'Ian by thefe two Faculties is reformed and re-
generated of the Lord 1 and that without them he
cannot be reformed and regenerated. V. That
l\Ian by Means of rhefe two Fact1lties can be fo far
reformed and regenerated, as he can by them be led
to acknowledge, that all the Good and Truth which
he thinketh and doeth, is from the Lord, and not
from himfelf. VI. That the ConjunCtion of the
Lord with Man, and the reciprocal Conjunction of
Man with the Lord~ is effeCted by thefe two Facul-
ties. VII. That the Lord preferveth thefe two Fac-
~lties in Man inviolable, and as it were facred fn
every
108 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
(\
every Progreflion of his Divine Providence. VIII.
That therefore it is of the Divine Providence,
that Man :ihould aB: fi·om Liberty according to
Reafon.
73· I. 'I'bat Nian hath Reafcn and Free-Will, or
Rationality atzd Liberty; and that thife two Faculties
arefrom the Lordin J.V!an. That Man hath th~ Fac~
ulty of Undcrftan•jing, which is Rationality, and
the Faculty of thinking, willing, fpeaking, and
doing that which he underfl:ands, which is Lib..
erty ; and that thefe two Faculties are from
the Lord in Man, was difcuifed 'in the Treatife
on THE DiviNE LovE AND . THE DIVINE Wis~
DOM, n. 264 to 270, 425 ; and alfo above. But
forafmuch as feveral Doubts may occur refpeB:ing
both thefe Faculties, when they are thought of, I am
defirous in this preliminary Part to add a few Obfer..
vations concerning the Liberty of aaing according
to Reafon in Man. It is however to be noted firft,
that all Liberty is ofLove, infomuch that Love and.
Liberty are one ; and whereas Love is the Life of
Man, Liberty alfo is of his Life ; for every Delight
which a Man hath, is from. his LoYc, no Delight be.
ing given from any other So1,1rce, and to aB: from
the Delight of Love is to aCl from Liberty, for De..
light leadeth a Man a& a River doth that which is
carried away by its Stream, Now forafmuch as
there are feveral Kinds of Love, fome concordant,
and fame difcordant, it follows, that in like Manner
there are feveral Kinds of Liberty : They may
however in general be reduced to three Kinds,
Natural, Rational, and Spiritual. NATURAL LIB-
~RTY every Man hath by Virtue of the hereditary
. Principle
THE DIVINE PROVIDENC!. 109
Principle received at his Birth ; under the Influence
of this Principle Man loveth Nothing elfe but him-
felf and the '¥orld ; his firfi: Life is Nathing elfe ;
and forafmuch as all Evils exifi: from thefe two
Loves, and thence Evils alfo become ObjeCts of Love,
it follows, that to think and will Evils is his natur-
a! Libeny ; and that when he hat~ confirmed them •
in himfelf by Reafonings, he doeth them from Lib-
erty according to his Reafon: ·when Man thus
aCl:eth, it is by Virtue of his Faculty which is called
Liberty; and when he thus confirmeth Evils, it is·
by Virtue of his Faculty which is called Rationality.
As for Example ; it is by Virtue of the Love to
which Man is born, th~t he willeth to commit Adul-
tery, Frauds, Blafphemi~s, Revenges; and when
he confirmeth thefe Evils in himfdf, and thereby
maketh them lawful, then from the Delight of the
Love of them he thinketh and willeth them freely
as it were according to Reafon, and fo far as civil
Laws do not refl:rain, fpeaketh and cloeth them : It
is from the Divine Providence of the Lord, that Man
is allowed fo to do, becanfe he hath Free-'"Nill or
Liberty. Man is .in this Liberty by Nature, b12caufe
he is fo by Birth; and _they are in this Liberty who
have confirmed it in thernfelves by I~cafonings from
the Delight of the Love of Self and of the \·Vorld.
RATIONAL LmERTY is grounded in the Love of
Fame for the Sake of Honour or Interefr; the De-
light of this Love is to appear in External Form as
a moral Man; and forafmuch as he lo~·eth this Rep-
utation, he doth not defraud, nor commit Adultery,
por indulge in a Spirit of Revenge or Blafphemy ;
and whereas he confirms himf~l{. by his Reafon in
abfi:aining
I 10 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNIN<l
abftaining from fuch Crimes, he alfo from Liber~
ty accotding to his Rcafon atleth fincerely, juftly,
challely, and friendly ; yea he can from Reafon
fpeak well in Fa,·our of fuch Virtues: But if his
Rational [Faculty] is only natural, and not at the
fame Time fpiritual, this Liberty is only external
l~iberty, and not internal Libertv, for neverthelefs
. . '
interiorly he doth not lovt! thofe Virtues, but only
exterior!J for the Sake of Reputation, as was faid;
wherefore the good ACtions which he doeth are in
themfelvcs not good : He can alfo fay, that they
ought to be done for the Sake of the public Good,
but this he doth not fay from any LoYe of the
public Good, but from the Love of his own Honour
or Intereft ; therefore his Liperty deri\'eth Nothing
from the Love of the public Good; neither doth
his Reafon, for this affentcth to his Love: 'Vher~..
fore this rational Lib:::rty is interior natural Jjberty.
T his Liberty alfo, from the Divine Prov~dence of the
Lcrd, is ld r to every one. S:piRlTUAL LIBERTY
is grounJed in the Love of Eternal Life ; into this
Love ;md its Delight none cometh, but he who
thinks that Evils are Sins, and therefore doth not
will them, and at the fame Time hath Refpea: to the
Lord : As foon as l'vian doeth this, h~ is in that Lib-
erty ; for no one hath power not to will Evils
becaufe they are Sins, and therefore not to do them,
except it be from interior or fuperior Liberty, whicll
is from his imerior or fuperior Love. This Liber-
ty doth not appear in the Beginning as Liberty~
but ftill it is fo, and afterwards it appeareth to be fo,
and then Man afteth from real Liberty according
to real Reafon, by thinking, willing, fpeaking, and
· doing
TH.E DIVINE PROVID£NCE. t I I.
Cloing wh:it ts good and true. This Liberty increaf.-
c:th, as natural Liberty decreafeth and becometh a
Servant, arid it joineth itfelf with rational Liberty,
and purificth it. Every one may come into this
Liberty, if fo be he willeth to think that there is fuch
a Thing as eternal Life, and that the Delight and
Bleffednefs of Life in Time for a T.imc, is only as a
tranfiem Shadow, compared with the Delight and
Bleffednefs of Life in Eternity to Eternity ; and this
a Man may think if he will, becaufe he hath Ration-
ality and Liberty, and becaufe the Lord, from whom
thefe two Faculties are derived, continually giveth
him Power.
74· II. That whatfoever a ll1an doeth from Libcr•
ty, whether it be of Reafon or not of Reafon, provided
it be according to his Recifon, appeai·eth to him as his
own. What Rationality is, and what Liberty, which
are proper to Man, cannot be known more clearly,
than by a· Comparifon of Men with Beafls, for the
latter have not any Rationality or Faculty of under-
fl:anding, nor any Liberty or Faculty of willing free-
ly, and thence they have no Underflanding ancl
\Vill, but inflead of Underfbnding they have Sci-
ence, and inflead of Will Affection, both natural :
And whereas they have not thefe two Faculties,
therefore neither have they Thought, but inil:ead of
Thought internal Sight, w_hich maketh one with
their external Sight by Correfpondcnce. Every
Affetlion hath its Companion as a Confort ; the
Affection of natural Love hath Science, theAffection
of fpiritual Love Intelligence, and the Affection of
celeflial Love \Vifdon1 : For Aflection without its
Companion, or as it were connubial Partner, is not
any
I 12 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
any Thing, for it is like an E£fe (Being) without
Exiftence, or like a Subftance without a Form, of
wpich not any Thing can be predicated ; hence it is,
that in every created Thing there is Something,
which may be referred to the Marriage of Good and
Truth, as hath been abundantly fhewn above ; in
Beafl:s there is a Marriage of AffeCtion and Science,
the AffeB:ion herein being that of natural Good,
and the Science that of natural Truth; Now foraf-
much as AffeCtion and SCience in Beafts act entirely
as one, and their AffeCtion canot be elevated above
their Science, neither can their Science be elevated
above their AffeCtion, and if they are'elevated, they
are elevated both together, and forafmuch as they
l1ave not any fpiritual Mind, to which, or into the
Light and Heat of which they can be elevated, there-
fore they have not the Faculty of underflanding or
Rationality, nor the Faculty of willing freely or
Liberty, but only mere natural AffeCtion with its
Science ; the natural AffeCtion, which they have, is
the Affetiion of feeding themfelves, providing an
Habitation, propagating their Kind, fhunning and
flying from Harm, with all Science or Knowledge
requifite thereto ; and forafmuch as their State of
Life is fuch, they cannot think within themfelves, I
will do this, aqd will not do that, nor can they think,
I know or do not know fuch a Thing, fiill lefs, I
underftand fuch a Thing, or I love fuch a Thing7
but they are carried ~way of their particular Affec-
tion by Science, without Rationality and Liberty.
The Caufe or Groutld of their being fo carried away
is not from the natural, but from the fpiritual World 1
for there doth not exifl: any Thing in the natural
• \Vorld
•••
1'ru DIVINE f>-ROVID.LXCE. I 13
\VorLt-unconnetl:cd \Vith the fpir!tual \Vorld ; ev-
ery Caufe producing an Eil~d is from thenc.:: :
Son)ethiirg on this Subjet:l: may be fc.::n :.1lfo bdow,
n. 96.
75· It is o~herwifc \Vith Nhn, who hath not only
the Affec:iori of narun.l Love, but al~o the Af1edion
of fpiritual Love, and theAffettio!l of celeHid Love;
for the Human Mind is of three D.:grees, as was
lhewn in the Treatifc co'!cerning THE DnnNI:
I~ovE AND nn: Drvn.:E \\'JsnoM, Part the Third:
\Vherefore ~v1 an can be elevattd from natural Sci~
ence into fpiritual Intelligence, and from thence imo
celeftial Wifi:iorn, and from thefe two, Intelligence
and vVifdom, can look up to the Lord, and io be
joined unto him, whereby he liveth to Eternity ;
but this Elevation as to AffeCtion woulJ not be pof-
fible, if l?e had not the Faculty"
of ele,·ating his Uu-
.derfl:anding from a Principle of Rationality, and
willing to do fo from a Principle of Liberty. lVLm
by thefe two Faculties can think v.:ithin himfelf of
the Things which he perceiveth with his bodily . ·..:
Senfe;:; without himfelf, and can alfo think fupcriGI ly
(or in a fuperior Sphere) of the Things which he
thinketh inferiorly (or in an inferior Sphere :) For
every one can fay, I thought this or I think this, alio
I willed this and I will this, and lE::e-.,-ife I under-
fiand this that it is fo, I love this becaufe it i-s fuch,
and fo on ; hence it is evident, that i\1an thinket11
even above Thought, and feeth the thinking Princi-
ple as it were below l1im ; this [FacultyJ Man I1ath
from Rationality and from Liberty, from Rativnali-
ty in that he can think fuperiorly (or in a fuperior
Sphere~) f!·om Liberty in that from AffeB:ion he
1• wi!leth
l 14 ANGELIC vVIS.DOM CONCERNING
willeth fo to think, for if he had not the Liberty
of fo thinking, he would not have the ·will, and
confequently neither the Thought. ·wherefore
they who will not unclerfl:and any Thing but what
is of the \Vorld and its Nature, and not what is
moral and fpiritual Good and Truth, cannot be ele-
vated from Knowledge or Science into Intelligence,
and fl:ill lefs into Wilaom, for they have obftruCl:ed
thofc Faculties; wherefore they make themfelves to
be no further Men, than that from their inherent
Rationality and Liberty they can underftand if they
will, and alfo that they have the Power to will.
l"rom thefe two Faculties Man hath the Power to
think, and from Thought to fpeak ; in other Fac.
ulties Men are not Men, but Beafts, and indeed
from the Abufe of thefe Faculties worfe than
Beafl:s.
76. Every one from Rationality not obfcured
may fee or comprehend, that Man, without an Ap-
pearance that it is his own, cannot be in any Affec-
tion of knowing, nor in any AffeCtion of underftand-
ing, for all Delight and Pleafure, therefore every
Thing of the \Vill, is from the AffeCtion which is of
Love ; who can will to know and will to underfl:and,
unlefs he hath fame Pleafure of AffeCl:ion ? And
who can have that Pleafure of Affeaion, unlefs that
by which he is affeCted appeareth as his own ? If it
were none of his, but all of another's, that is, if any
one from his own AffeCtions ihould infufe any Thing
into the Mind of another, who had no AffeCtions of
knowing and underilanding as from himfelf, would
the other receive it, yea, would he be able to re~
ceive it, would he not be as that which is called
_, Brute,
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. I I5
Brute, or as a Stock ? Hence it may appear mani-
fefUy, that although every Thing enters by Influx, '
which a Man perceiveth and thence thinketh and
knoweth, and according to Perception willeth and
doeth, frill it is of the .Divine Providence of the
Lord, that it fhould appear as Man's, for otherwife,
as was obferved, Man would receive Nothing, there-
fore could not be gifted with any lntelligence and
Wifdom. It is \veil known, that all Good and
Truth is not Man's but the Lord's, and yet that it
appeareth to Man as his ovm, and forafmuch as all
Good and Truth fo appeareth, all Things alfo of
the Church and of Heaven, therefore all Things of'
Love and Vvifdom, alfo of Charity and Faith, fo ap-
pear, and yet none of them is Man's; no one can
receive them from the Lord, unlefs it appears to
him that he perceiveth them as from himfelf. From
thefe Con'fiderations this Truth may be manifd1,
that whatfoever a Man doeth from Liberty, whether
it be of Reafon or not of Reafcn, provided it be
according to his Reafon, appeareth to him as his
own.
77· "Who is not able to underfl:and, by Virtue of
his Faculty, which is called Rationality, that this or
th;lt Good is ufeful to the Community, and that this
or that Evil is noxious to the Community, as that
Jufl:ice, Sincerity, and conjugal Chaflity, are ufeful
to the Community, and that Injuflice, Infincerity.,
and \Vhorcdom committed with the Wives of oth.
ers, are noxious to the Community ; confequently
that thefe Evils in themfelves are mifchievous, and
that thofc Goods in themfelves are beneficial? \Vho
therefore, if he be fo difpofed, cannot make thofe
Goods
I I G A:r-~Gr:LIC '\VJSDO.:.\I CONC:ER NING
GooJs ~nd E··iis the Goods and Evils of his Reafon,
inafmuch <J.S he hath Rationality, and he hath Lber-
ty ? And his Rationality and Liberty diklofe them-
fclves, appear, govern, and give him to perceive and
t9 havc Power, in Proportion as he for the above
Reafo~1s fhunncth the above Evils in himfelf, and in
Propo:::tion as he deeth this, in rhe fame Proronion
he refpecre:h the above Goods, as a Friend his
Friends. Frotn thefe Confiderations it is in Man's
Power aftenvards, by Virtue of his Faculty, ·which
is caU:;d 1
'-atianality, to form Conclufions refpeCling
the Goods which (.Ire ufeful to the Community in
the fpiritual \Vorld, and refpeCling the Evils which
are there no:~ious, if fo be inrread of E-.ils he per-'
ceiveth Sins, and infl:ead of Goods W arks of Char.
ity; thefe Conclu:Gons alfo a Man may make the
Conclufions of his Reafon, if he will, becaufe he
. hath Rationality and Liberty, and his Rationality
apd Liberty diicloic themfelves, appear, govern, and
gi\·e him to perceive and to ha,·e Power, in Fropor-
tion as heihtmneth the above Evils as Sins, and in
Proportion as he doeth this, in the fame Proportion
he refpeel:eth the Goods of Charity, as one Neigh-
bot,lr doth another mutually from Love. Nmv for~
afmuch as the Lord, for the Sake of'Rcception and
ConjunClion, willeth, that whatfoever Man doeth
freely according to Reafon, may appear to him as
l1is own, and this is according to Reafon itfelf, it fol-
lows, that Man can, by Virtue of Reaion, becaufe it
js his eternal Felicity, be willing to ihup the above
Evils as Sins, and by imploring the Divine Power
Qf the Lord, can effeCt what he willeth.
78, III.
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. I 17
78. III. 'That whatfoevcr Man doeth from Liberty
according to his 'Thought, is appropriated to him as hi;
own, and remaineth; the Reafon is, becaufe the Pro-
prium of Man ~md his Liberty make one ; the Pro-
prium of Man is of his Life, and what Man doeth
from his Life, that he doeth from Liberty ; mere-
over the Proprium of Man is what is of his Love,
for Love is the Life of every one, and wh<1t l\Jan
~oeth from his Life's Love, that he doeth from Lib-
erty. The Ground and Heafon why l\bn acteth
from Liberty according to his Thought, is, becaufe
whatever is of the Life or of the Love of any one,
is alfo the Obje~ of Thought, and is by Thought
confirmed, and when it is confirmed, then he doeth
it from Li~erty accordi~g to his Th;ught; for what-
foever a Man doeth, he doeth from the Will by the
Underfbnding, and Liberty is of the \:Vill, and
Thought is of the Under/landing. Man can alfo
aCt from Liberty contrary to Reafon ; anu likewife
not from Liberty according to Rea[on ; but fuch
Atl:s are not appropriated to Man, being only the
ACts of his Lips and of his Body, and not of his
Spirit or of·his Heart ; but the AB:s which are of
his Spirit and of his Heart, when they are alfo made
the ACts of his Lips and of his Body, thefe are ap-
propriated to Man: That this is the Cafe, might be
illufhated by many Confiderations, but this is not
the proper Place for fuch Illufl:ration. By being
appropriated to Man is meant to enter his Life, and
to be made of his Life, confequently to be made his
_own or his Proprium. But that Man hath not any
Thing which is proper to himfelf (any Proprium,)
but that it appearcth to himfelf to be fo, will be
feen
I 18 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
r
feen in what follows: We !hall here only obferve,
that all the Good which a Man doeth from Liberty
according to Reafon, is appropriated to him as his
own, becaufe in thinking, willing, fpcaking, and
aB:i~g, it appeareth to him as his own ; neverthelefs
Good is not of Man, but is of the Lord in Man, as
may he feen above, n. 76. But how Evil is appro-
priated to Man, will be feen in its proper Article.
79· It is faid alfo, that whatever a Man doeth
from Liberty according to his Reafon remaineth ;
for no one Thing which Man hath appropriated to·
himfelf can be eradicated, inafmuch as it is made
an Object of his Love, and at the fame Time of his
Reafon, or of his Will, and at the f~me Time of his
Underfl:anding, and thence of his Life : This may
indeed be remmled, but yet not cafl: out ; and when
it is removed, it is transferred as it were from the
Centre to the Circumference, and there abideth :,
This is meant by its remaining. As for example ;
if a Man in his c:1i.ldhood and Youth hath appro-
priated to himfelf a certain Evil by doing it from
the Delight of his Love, as if he hath qefrauded,
blafphemed, revenged, committed ··whoredom, then
forafrmlch as he had done thefe Things from Lib-
erty according to his Thought, he hath alfo appro-
priated them to himfelf ; but if he afterwards re-
penteth, :lhunneth them, and confiders them as Sins
which are to be abhorred, and thus from Liberty
accordi-ng to Reafon defifreth from them, then there
are appropriated to him Goods, to which thofe Evils
are oppofite ; thefe Goods then make the Centre,
and remov~ the Evils towards the Circumference,
iurther and further, according to his Averfion and
Abhorrence
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. I 19
Abhorrence thereof; but flill they cannot be fo call:
out, as to be faid to be extirpated ; neyerthelefs by
that Removal they can appear as it were extirpa-
tt:d ; which is effeCted by Man's being detained
from Evils, and held in Goods by the Lord : This
is the Cafe with all hereditary Evil, and at the fame
Time with all aCtual Evil of Man: This alfo I have
feen proved by Experience with fomc in Heaven,
who, becaufe they were kept in Good by the Lord~
thought themfelves to be without Evils; but to pre·
vent their thinking that the Good in which they
were, was their own, they 'vere let down from
Heaven, and let into their Evils, till they acknowl-
edged that they were in Evils from themfelves, but
in Goods from the Lord ; after which Acknowl·
edgment they were carried back into Heaven. Be
it known therefore, that thefe Goods are no other-
wife appropriated to Man, than that they are con-
fiantly of the Lord in Man, and that in Proportion
as Man acknowledgeth this, in the fame Proportion
the Lord granteth, that Good may appear to l\Ian
as his own, that is, that Man may appear to himfelf
to love his Neighbour or to have Charity as from
himfelf, to believe or to have Faith as from himfelf,
to do Good and to underfl:and Truth as from him·
felf, therefore to be wife as from himfelf ; from
which Confiderations every enlightened Pcrfon may
fee, what and how Hrong the Appearance is, in
which the Lord wiJieth that Man fhould be, and
the Lord willeth this for the Sake of his Salvation,
for no one without that Appearance can be faved.
On this SubjeB:, fee alfo what is .fhewn <.bove,
n. 42 to 45·
So. Nothing
120 ANGELIC \VISDO:M CONCERNING
So. Nothing is appropriated to Man which he
only thinketh, yea, neither which he thinketh to will,
except he at che fame Time willeth it to ftich a De~
gree, that, when Opportunity is given, he doeth it;
the Reafon is, becaufe when Man doeth it from this
Ground, he docth it from the Will by the Under-
fianding, or from the Affe.B:ion of the \Vill by the
Thought of the Underfl:anding: But fo long as it
is an ObjeCt: of the Thought only, it cannot be ap-
propriated, becaufe the Underfi:anding doth not join
itfelf with the \Vill, or the Thought of the Under-
fianding doth not join irfdf with the AffeB:ion af
the Will, but the 'Will and its AffeB:ion joineth it-
felf with the UnJer!l:anding and its Thought, as is
!hewn abundantly in the Treatife on THE DrviNE
LovE AND THE DrviNE \VrsnoM, Part the Fifth.
This is m;ant by theft Words of the Lord, "Not
that wbich goetb into the :Niouth dtjileth a l'rfan, but
that which cometh out ofthe Heart tbrough the Mouth,
that d~ji/cth a !.'Ian," Matth. xv. I r, 17, r8, 19; by
the Mouth i~ a fpiritual Senfe is meant the Thoughtt
becaufe the Thought fpe;).keth by the Mouth; and
by the Heart in that Senfe is meant the AffeB:ion,
which is of Love; ifa M:m thinketh and fpeaketl}
from this AffeB:ion, then he defileth himfelf: By
the Heart alfo is fignified the Affeaion which is of
Love or of the Will, and by the Mouth the Thought
which is of the Underlhnding, in Luke, Chap.
vi. 45·
. 81. The Evils which a Man thinketh allowabte,
although he doeth them not, are alfo appropriated
to him, for Allowablenefs in Thought is from the
\Vill, inafmu;:h as it is Confent; wherefore when a
Man
TnE DrvrNE PROVIDENcE. I'2I
Man thinketh any Evil allowahlc, he Ioofeneth inter-
nal Re!lraint refpeB:ing it, and is kept from doing
it only by external Re!lraints, which are Fears ;
and whereas the Spirit of the :Man favoureth that
Evil, therefore when external Rdtraints are remov-
eu, he doeth it freely ; and in the mean Time he
con-tinually doeth it in his Spirit : But on this Sub-
ject fee TnE DocTRiNE oF LIFE FOR TI-I.E NEw
}.CRUS.i\LEM, n. 108 tO I IJ·
82. IV. 'That Afan by tbefe tu:o Faculties is re-
formed and rc;;cnerated by tbe Lord ; and tbat u;ith-
out them he cannot be reformed and regenerated. The
I.ord teacheth that unlefs a J';lan'be born again, he
cannot fee the Kingdom of God, John iii. 3, 5, 7 ;
but what it is to be born again, or to be regenerate,.
is known to few : The Reafon is, becaufe it hatl1
not bee!l known what Love and Charity are, an£!
therefore neither \vhat Faith is, for he who doth
not know what Love and Charity are, cannot know
what Faith is, becaufe Charity and Faith make one,
like Good and Truth, and like AffcCl:ion which is
of the ·will, and Thought which is of the Under-
fianding ; concerning which Union, fee the Treatife
on THE DIVINE LovE AND TaE DIVINE WisDoM,.
n. 427 to 431 ; alfo THE DocTRINE oF THE NEV.r
jERUSALEM, n. 13 to 24• And above, n. 3 to zo.
83. The Reafon why no Man can enter into the
Kingdom ofGod, unlefs he be born again, is, becaufe
l\1an by an hereditary Principle from his Parents is
born to all kinds of Evils, with a Faculty that by the
removal of thofe Evils he can be madefpiritual, and
unlefs he be made fpiritual he cannot enter intoHeav-
en; from natural to be made fpiritpal, is to be born
Q.. <~ga;n,
I2J i\:NG.ELIC '\VISDOM: CO.NCERKI:NG
again, cr to be regenerated. But in Order that it
may be known how Man is regenerated, thefe three
Things are to be confidered; what his firH State is,
which is a State of Damn:.1tion ; what his fecond
State is, which is a State of Reformation ; and what
l1is third State is, which is a State of Regeneration.
TheJi::Jl State oflVIan, 7.-:•hich is a State ofDamnatioll,
every l\I2.n hath by an hereditary Principle from
his Parents, for ]'dan is thence born to the Love of
Self and the Love of the vVorld, and from thefe
Loves as Fountains, to Evils of all Kinds ; the De-
lights cf thefe LoYes are the Delights by which he is
led, arrJ thefe Defights caufe him not to know that
he is in E\'ils; for every Delight of Love is felt no
otherwife than as Good ; wherefore alfo Man, un-
lefs he is regenerated, knoweth no other than that
to love himfelf and rhe \V"orlJ above all '1 hings, is
effcntial Good, and that to domineer over all, and
pofTefs the \¥ealth of all others, is the fupreme
Good :'This is the Ground of all Evil, for he rc-
gardeth no other Perfon from a Principle of Love
.but himfclf alone, and if he regardeth another from
a Principle of Love, it is as one Devil regardeth
another, or as one Thief another, when they aa as
one. They who confirm in themfelves thefe Loves~
and the Evils flowing from them, from the Delight
thereof, remain natural and become fenfual-corpo-
real ; and in their own Thought, \vhich is that of
their Spirit, they are infane ; but ftill they can,
while they arc in the \Vorld, fpeak and act ration.
ally an4,wifely, inafmuch as they are Men, and con.
fequently have Rationality and Liberty, yet this alfo
they do from the Love of Self and of the ·world.
Thefe
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. I 23
T!1efe after Death, when they become Spirits, can~
not have any other Delight, than that which they
had in their Spirit in the 'llorld, and that Delight
is the Delight of infernal Love, which is turned into
undelightful, dolorous, aad dire, which in the \Vord
is meant by Hell-Torment and Hell-Fire. Hence
it is evident that the firrl: State of Man is a State of
Damnation ; and that they are in it, who do not
fuff::r themfclves to be regenerated. 'Theflcond State
of Nian, which is a State of Riformation, is, when
I\lan beginncth to think of Heaven from the Joy
that is therein, and thus to think of God, from
whom he hath the Joy of HeaYen; at firfl:, how-
ever, he thinks thus from the Delight of the Love
of Self, heave11ly Joy being to him that Delight ;
but io long as the Delight of that Lm;e reigns, to-
gether with the Delights of the Evils flowing there-
from, he cannot underfl:and otherwife, thc.n tlnt to
go to IIeaven is to pour out Prayers, to hear Preach-
ings, to receive the Lord's Supper, to give to the
Poor, to help the Needy. to endow Churches and
Hofpitals, and fuch like Things ; neither doth 1\Ian
in this State know otherwife, than that barely to
thin!~: the Things, which Religion teacheth, cffeaeth
Salvatio11, whether it be that which is called lfaith,
or that which is called Faith and Charity : The
Rcafon why he underfi:andeth no other, than that
to think thcfe Things effeCl:eth Salvation, is, bec:mfe
he thinketh Nothing of the Evils, in the Delights of
which he is, and fo long as their Delights remain,
the E\'ils alfo remain, inafmuch as the Delights
thereof :;.rife from the Concupifccnce of them, which
Concupifcence r;ontinually in!pireth them and alfo
produceth
l24 ANGELIC \VrsDOM CONCERNING
produceth them, when no Fear operates to prevent
it. So long as Evils remain in the Concupifcences,
and thence in the Delights of the Love of them,
there is not any Faith, Charity, Piety, Worfhip, ex-
cept only in Externals, which caufe thofe Virtues to
appear before the World as if they exifted, but yet
do not exitl : They may therefore be compared to
':Vaters flowing from an impure Fountain, which
cannot be drunk. So long as Man is fuch, that he
thinketh of Heaven and of God from Religion, and
Nothing of Eviis as Sins, he is fl:iil in his firfl State :
But he cometh into the fecond State, or State of
Refo;mation, when he beginneth to think that there
is fuch a Thing as Sin, and more fo when he think-
eth that this or that is a Sin, and when he exploreth
it a little in himfclf, and willeth it not. 'The tbird
State of ]dan, which is a State of Regeneration, is a
Taking up 2.nd Continuation of the prior State, and
beginneth when Man defifl:eth from E,,i!s as Sins,
and proceedetl1 as he fhunneth them, and is perfeEt:-
ed as he fighteth againfl them, and in this Cafe as
Man overcomcth from the Lord, he is regenerated.
'With the regenerate Man the Order of Life is invert-
ed, and from natural he is made fpiritual ; for the
natural Principle feparated from the fpiritual is con-
trary to Order, and the fpiritual Principle is accord-
ing to Order ; wherefore a regenerate Ivlan afl:eth
from Charity, and maketh that the Principle of his
Faith, which is the Principle of his Charity. But
Hill he is made no more fpiritual, than in Proportion
as he is in Truths ; for every Man is regenerated by
Truths, and by a Life according to them; for by
Truths he knoweth Life? and by Life he doeth
Truths; "
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. I 2S
Truths ; thus he conjoineth Goodnefs and Truth,
which is the fpiritual Marriage, in which is Heaven.
85· The Ground and Reafon why Man is re.
formed and regenerated by thofe two Faculties,
which are called Rationality and Liberty, and that
without them he cannot be reformed and regenera-
ted, is, becaufe by Rationality he can un<)erfl:and
and know what Evil is, and what Good is, and
thence what is falfe and what is true; and by Lib-
erty he can will that \vhich he underftandetl1 and
knoweth : But fo long as the Delight of the Love of
Evil reigneth, he cannot freely will what is good
and true, and make them Principles of his Reafon, ·
wherefore he cannot appropriate them lo himfelf ;
for, as was fhewn above, the Things \vhich a !v1an
doetb from Liberty according to Reafon, are appro-
priated to him as his own, and unlefs they are ap-
propriated as his own, Man is not reformed and
regenerated ; and then firfl: he aaeth from the De-
light of the LoYe of Goodnefs and Truth, \vhen the
Delight of the Love of Evil and Falfe is removed ;
for two Delights of Love oppofite to each other are
not given at the fame Time ; to aa from the De-
light of Love, is to aCt from Liber~y, and forafmuch
as the Reafon f:wour\':th the Love, it is alfo to aa
according to Reafon.
86. Forafmuch as Man, as well he who is wicked
as he who is good, hath Rationality and Liberty, a
wicked as well as ..1 good Man can underihnd Truth
and do Good, but a wicked Man (:annat do fo from
Liberty according to Reafon, whereas a good Man
can, becaufe a 'l.vicked Man is in the Delight of the
ftovc of Evil, but a good l\1an is in the Delight of
the
) ::;6 ANG.ELIC \VrsDOM CONCERNING
the Love of Good ; ·wherefore the Truth which a •
wicked Man underfbndeth, and the Good which
he doeth, are not appropriated to him, but they :1rc
appropriated to a gqod 1\'lan ; and without Appro-
priation as his own, Reformation and Regeneration
are not gii·en, for Evils with Fal:cs are with the
"Wicked as it w·ere in the Centre, and Goods with
'1'ruths in the Circumference ; but Goods with
Truths with the Good are in the Centre, and Evils
with Falies in the Circumference ; and in both
Cafes the Things \Vhich ·are of the Centre difFufe
themfelves to· the Circumference, as Heat from Fire
in the Centre, and Cold from Ice in_ the Centre ;
thus Good in the Circumference with the \Vicked
is defiled by the Evils of the Centre, z.nd Evils in
the Circumference with tJle Good are rendered
mrld by the Goods of the Centre ; ~md this is the
Reafon, why E\'ils do not condemn a regenerate
Man, and Goods 2o· not fave ,an unregenerate Man.
8;. V. 'Fh<'zt }.fan, by }/leans ofthqfe two Facul-
ties, can befofar reformed and rr:generated, as he can
by them be led to ackno-wledge, that all the Truth and
all the Good, 'lubicb he thinkcth and do.:th, is from the
Lord, and not from birt!fdf. ·what Reformation is,
and what Regener~tion, was faid ~bove ; alfo that
Man, by thofe two Fa::ulties, Rationality' and Lib-
erty, !:; reformed and regenerated : And whereas
thi,; i~ effefl:~d by th~fe Faculties, it may be expedi-
ent to fay Something more concer::.ing them. Man
by Virtue of Rationality hath Power to underfi:and,
and by Virtue of Liberty Power to will, both as from
himfelf; but the Power of willing Good from Lib-
erty, and thence of doing it according to Reafon,
no
THE DIYINE PRO\TDENCE. I'27
no one hath but the Regenerate: A ;>--ickcJ Man
from Liberty can only wiil Evil, and do it according
to his Thought, which by Confinnatio!1s he maketh
as it were of Rcalon ; for Evil can be confirmed
alike as Good, but Evil by .Fdbcies and Appear~
anccs, which, \Yhen they are confirmed, become
Falfes, and when Evil is confirmed, it appeareth as
of Reafon.
88. En:ry one, \vho hath alij' Thought from in-
terior Underfl:anding, may fee, that the Pnv.rer of
willing ( pqfje 'i.·dh) and the Power of underlhnd~
ing, is not from 1\Ian, but from Him who hath Pow-
er itfelf (ipjum Pqlfo), that is, who hath Po\Ycr in
its Effence : Confider only, whence is Power [ Abil-
ity, or to be able]? Is it not from Him who hath it
in his own elfential Power, that is, who hath it in
Himfelf, and confequent!y from Himfclf ? \Vhere-
fore Power in itfelf is Divine. To a11 Power there
mufl be Leave (Copia), which is to be given, and
thus a Dctern1ination from what is interior and fu-
pericr to Self; the Eye eannot fee from itfelf~ nor
the Ear hear from itfelf, neither can the i\louth fpeak
from itfelf, nor the Hands aCt from themfe!Yes ;
there mufl be Leave given, and thence Detcrmi·na-
tion fror!l the Mind ; neither c?.n the Mind thin!:
and will this o:: that from itfelf, unlefs there be Some-
thing interior or fuperior which determines the
1\.iind to it; it is the iame with the Po\ver of u::dcr-
fianding and the Po\\·er of willing, thefe cannot be
given by any other than by Him who in Himfeif can
\\ill and can unJerftand. From which Confidera-
tions it is evident, that thofe two Faculties, which
;tre called R~tiona!ity and Liberty, are from the
LonJ,
128 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
Lord, and not from Maa ; and forafmuch as they
are from the Lord, it follows, that Man willeth Noth..
ing from himfelf, and underfrandeth Nothing from
himfelf, but only as it were from himfelf. That
this is the Cafe, every one may confirm in himfelf1
who knoweth and believeth, that the 'Will of all
Good, and tN-c Underftanding of all Truth, is from
the Lord, and not from Man. That lvfan cannot
ta.~~ any Thingfrom bin!fe!f, and cannot do any Tbing
from himfe!f, the Vlord teacheth in John, Chap. iii.
27. Chap. xv. 5··
89. Now forafmuch as all Voiition is from Love,
and all Underfl:anding is from Wifdom, it follows,
that to be able to will, or in other Vvords, the Pow-
er of willing, is from the Divine Love, and to be
able to underftand, or in other Words, the Power
of underftanding, is frofn the Divine Wifdom,
therefore both from the Lord,. who is Divine Love
itfelf and Divine Viifdom itfelf. Hence it follows:;~
that to aa from Liberty according to Reafon, is
from no other Source. Every one aCt:eth according
to Liberty, becaufe Liberty like Love cannot be fep..
arated from Volition ; but in Man there is given in•
teiior Volition or interior Will, and ex~erior Voli4
tion or exterior Will, and he can aa according to
the exterior, and at the fame Time not a<:cording
to the interior ; in this Cafe he acts the Hypocrite
anll Flatterer; and yet exterior Volition is from
Liberty, becaufe it is from the Love of appearin~
otherwife than he is, or from the Love of fame
Evil which from the Love of his interior Will he in~
tendeth ; but, as was faid above, a wicked Man
~annat from Liberty according to his Reafon do
any
Tm:: DIVINE PROVIDE~~cE. 129
:my Thing bnt Evil, for he cannot from Liberty ac-
cordin~ to Reafon do GooJ; he can indeed do
Good, but not from interior Liberty, which i~ his
proper Libeny, from which hi:;; exterior Liberty C.e-
riveth this Property, that ~t is not Good.
90. It is faid that man can· bt: reformed and re-
generated, in Proportion as by the aoove two Facul-
ties he can be letl to acknowledge that all the G{)od
and all the Tmth which he thinketh anLl doeth, is
from the Lord, and not from himfelf: The Rcaion
why Man cannot acknowledge this but by tho!"c tW()
Faculties, is, becaufe thofe t\\·O Faculties are from
the Lord, and they are of the Lord in Man, as is
evident from what hath been faid above ; where-
fore it follows, that Man cannot do thi.> from him-
felf, but from the Lord ; but fl:ill he can do it as it
were from himfelf, this th~Lord giveth to cvtry one:
Let it be fuppofed that he believeth from himfelf, fl:iil
when he becometh wife, he will acknowledge that it
is not from himfdf, othenvife the Truth which he
thinketh, and the Good which he doeth, is not tr'"e
and good in itfelf, for the Man is in.them, and not
the Lord in them, and Good in which a l\hn is, if
it be for the Sake of Salvation, is meritorious Good,
but Good in which the Lord is, is not meritorious.
91. But that the Acknowledgment of the Lord,
and the Acknowledgment that all Good and all
Truth ig from Him, caufeth :Man to oe reformed and
regenerated, is whlt few c:1n fee with the Under-
fianding, for it may be thought, of what Confc-
quence is that Acknowledgment, feeing the Lord is
omnipotent, and willeth the Salvation of all, and
thence can and will cfl't:D: it, if fo be lw be moved
R to
130 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
to Compaffion? But to think thus is not from the
Lord, therefore neither is it from the interior Light·
oftht: Underfl:anding, that is; from any Illumination;
wherefore what Acknowledgment operateth, we
ihall here briefly explain. In the fpiritual V!orld,
where Spaces are only Appearances, \Vifdom pro-
duceth Prefence, and Love produc~th ConjunCtion;
and vice ve1ja: There is given an Acknowledgment
of the Lord from Wifdom, and there is given an
Acknowledgment of the Lord from Love ; the Ac·
knowledgment of the Lord from Wifdom, which
viewed in itfelf is only a Knowledge of him, is giv..
en from DoB:rine, and the Acknowledgment of the
Lord from Love is given from a Life a_ccording to
Doctrine; the latter giveth ConjunCtion; but the for·
mer Prefence: This is th~ Reafon, why they who
rejeC1: DoC1:rine concerning the Lord, remove them-
felves from him; and inafmuch as they alfo rejecr
Life, they feparate themfelves from him : \Vhereas
they, who do not reject DoC1:rine, but Life, fuch are
prefent, yet feparatcd : They are like Friends, who
converfe together, but do not mutually love each
other ; and they are like two, whereof the one fpeak•
eth \vith the other as a Friend, but hateth him as an
Enemy. That this is the Cafe, is alfo known from
the common Idea, that he who teacheth well, and
liveth well, is faved, but not he who teacheth well
and liveth ill ; alfo that he Vv'ho doth not ac•
knowledge God, cannot be faved. From this Con-
fideration it is evident, what Sort of a Religion it is;
to think of the Lord from Faith, as it is called, and
not to do any Thing from Charity; wherefore the
Lord faith," Why ccr!ly~ Me Lord, Lord, and do not
the
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. IJ I
the Th/ngs which !fay? fVhcfoc•ver cometh to 111e, and
heareth my Sayings, and doeth them, is !Jke a lltJan
whhh built an Haufe, and laid ihe Foundation on a
Rock: But he that heareth, and doeth not, is like a
Man that without a Foundation built an Haufe upm
the Ground," Luke vi. 46 to 49·
9~· VI. 'l'hat the ConjrmClion of the Eord ·with
Man, and the reciprocal ConjunClion of1\t!an with the
Lord, is e.ffeCled by tbofe two Faculties. ConjunCtion
with the Lord and Regeneration are one, for in
Proportion as any one is conjoined to the I~ord, in
the fame Proportion he is regenerate : Wherefore
all that is faid above of Regeneration may be faid
of Conjunuion, and what is here faid of Conjunc-
tion may b~ [aid of Regener;1tion. That there is a
Conjunqion of the Lord .with Man, and a recipro-
cal ConjunCl:ion of Man with the Lord, the Lord
himfelf teacheth in John, ".;1bide in Me, and I in
you; whcfo q_bideth in !VIe, and I in him, the fame
pearcth much Fruit," xv. 4, 5· "In that Day ycjba/1
know, tbat ye are in Me, and I in you," xiv. 20. Any
one may fee from Reafon alone, that there is not
;my Conjunt:l;ion of Minds, unlefs it be alfo recipro-
cal, and that reciprocation conjoincth ; ifone loveth
another, and is not beloved in his Turn, in this Cafe,
as the one approacheth, the other retireth ; but if he
is beloved in Return, then <Js one approacheth, the
other alfo approacheth, and CoujunCl:ion is effeCl:ed ;
for Love willeth to be beloved ; this is inherent in it,
and in Proportion as it is beloved again, in the fame
:Proportion it is in itfelfand in its Delight. Hence it is
evident, that if the Lord only loveth Man, and were
not in .his T~rn to be beloved by Man, the Lord
woulct
I.)~ ANGELIC \VIS,D0!-1 CONCERN1
ING
'would approach, and Man would retire; thus the
Lord would conrinua1ly will to meet Man, and to
enter in to him, and Man V·muld turn himfelf away
and depart ; with thofe who are in Hell, this is the
Ca:e, but with thofe who are in Heaven, there is a
mutual ConjunCtion. Forafmuch as the Lord will-
eth ConjunCtion with Man, for the Sake of his
s~Ivation, he provideth alfo that in Man there
jhould be Reciprocation or a reciprocal Principle;
the reciprocal Principle in Man is, that the Good
which he \villeth and doeth from Liberty, and the
Truth which be thinkcth and fpeaketh from that
Vlill accorcing to Reafon, ihould appear to him as be-
ing from himfelf; and that that Good in his Will and
that that Truth in his Underfianding, ihould appear
as his own ; yea, they appear to Man as from him-
felf, and as his, altogether as if they were his own,
there is no Difference; attend only and confider,
whether a Man with any one of his Senfes perceiv-
eth otherwife ; oft hat Appearance as if from him-
felf, fee above, n. 74 to 77; and of Appropriadon
as bis own, n. 78 to 8 I : The only Difference is,
that Man ought to acknowledge, that he doth not
do Good and think Truth from himfelf, but from
the LorJ ; and confequently that the Good which
he doeth, and the Truth which he thinketh, is not
his own: To think thus from fome Degree ofl.ove
in the \Vill, becaufe it is the Truth, efletl:eth Con-
junClion ; for thus Man looketh to the Lord, and
the Lord looketh to Man.
93· 'What the Difference is between thofe, who
believe all Good to be from the Lord, and thofe
~ho believt:: Goo9, to be from themfelves, it hath
been
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. f33
been given both to hear and to fee in the fpiritual
W o:ld : They who believe Good to be from the
Lord, tum their Faces to him, and receive the De-
light and Bleifednefs of Good; but they who believe
Good to be from themfelves, look to themfelves,
and think with themfelves that they have deferved
it; and forafmuch as they look to themfelves, they
cannot but perceive th~ Ddight of their own GooJ,
which is not the Delight of Good, but the Ddight
of Evil ; for the Proprium of 1\hn is Evil, and the
Delight of Evil perceived as Good is Hell. They
who have done Good, and thought it was from
themfelves, if they do not after Death receive this
Truth, that all Good is from the Lord, mix with
infernal Genii, and at length aa as one with them ;
whereas they who receive the above Truth, are
reformed ; but no others receive it, except thofe
who have refpeB:ed God in their Life : To refpeEt
or look up to God in their Life, is Nothing elfe but
to fhun Evils as Sins.
94· ConjunCtion of the Lord with Man, ~nd re-
ciprocal ConjunCtion of Man with the Lord, is
etreB:ed by Man's loving his Neighbour as himfelf,
and loving the Lord above all Things : To love his
Neighbour as himfelf, is Nothing elfe but not to aa
infincerely anu unjufl:ly with him, not to hate him
and burn with Re\'enge againfr him, not to blaf-
pheme and defame him, not to commit Adultery
with his Wife, and not to do other fuch like Things
againfr him : Who cannot fee, that they who do
fuch Things, do not love their Neighbour as them-
felves ? but they who do not do fuch Things, be-
caufe they are Evils againfl: their Neighbour, the
fame
IJ4 ANGELIC '\VISDOM CONCERNING
fame deal fincerely, jufl:ly, friendly, and faithfully
with their Neighbour, and forafmuch as the Lord
. deeth in like Manner, a reciprocal ConjunCl:ion is
cffeCl:ed ; and when ConjunCl:ion is reciprocal, then
whatfoever Man doeth to his Neighbour, he doeth
from the,Lord, and whatfoever Man doeth from the
Lord is Good ; and then his Neighbour is not to
l1im the mere Perfon, but Good in the Perfon. Tq
love the Lord above all Things, is Nothing elfe, but
net to do Evil to the \Vord, becaufe in the 'i\Tord
the Lord is, nor to do Evil to the holy Things of
the- Church, becaufe in the holy Things of the
Church the Lord is, nor to do Evil to the Soul of
any one, becaufe the Soul of every one is in the Hand
of the Lord ; they who fhun thefe Evlls as enor.
mous Sins, the fame love the Lord above all Things ;
but this no others can do, except fuch as love their
Neighbour as themfelves, for Love to the Lord and
neighbourly Love are conjoined together.
95· Forafmuch as there is a ConjunCl:ion of the
Lord with Man, and of Man with the Lord, there-
fore there are two Tables bf the Law, one for the
Lord, and the other for Man : In Proportion a~
Man, as from himfelf, doeth the Laws of his own Ta~
ble, in the fame Proportion the LorJ giveth him tq
do the Laws of his Table : But the 1\lan who doth
not do the Laws of his own Table, which all relate
/ to the Love of hi~ Neighbour, cannot do the l ..aws
of the Lord's Table, which all relate to the Love of
the Lord: How can a Murderer, a Thief, an Adul-
terer, and a falfe \Vitnefs, love the Lord? Doth not
Reafon diEtate, that to be fuch, and to lnve the
LorJ, is contradiC1:0ry ? ls not the Devil fuch a.
one,
'fru DiviNE PRoviDENcE. 135
one, and can he do otherwife than hate the Lord ?
But when 1\hn turneth away from Murders, Adul-
teries, Thefts, and falfe Tefiimony, as infernal, then
he can love the Lord, for then he turnetl1 his Face
from the Devil to the Lord, and when he turneth
his Face to the Lord, Love and \Vifdom. is given
him, thefe Principles entering into a Man by his
Face, and not by the hinder Part of his Head. Ind
afmuch as in this and in no other Manner Conjunc-
tion with the Lord is effeaed, therefore thofe two
Tables are called the Covenant, and a Covenant is
between two.
g6. VII. That the Lord preflrveth thoje two Fac-
ulties in !11an in·violab!e, and as it were Jacrcd, in
every Progrdfion of his D;.,.;ine Providence. The
Reafons are, becaufe Man, without thofe two Fac-
ulties, would not have Underfi:anding and \:Vill, and
therefore would not be Man ; alfo, becaufe Man,
·without thofe two Faculties, could not be conjoined
to the Lord, and therefore could not be reformed
and regenerated ; and further, becaufe Man, with-
out thofe two Faculties, would not have Immortality
and eternal Life. That this is the Cafe, may in.;
deed be feen, ftom the Knowledge of what Liberty
and Rationality are, (which are thofe two Faculties,)
which was fhewn in the foregoing Pages ; but it
cannot be feen clearly, unlefs each Reafon be pre.
fented to the View as a Conclufjon, wherefore it
may be expedient to illufi:rate each. Cfbat Man
withrmt thofe two Faculties 'l.oould not have TtVill and
Undeljhmding, an"' therefore would not be !11an ; for
!-.'Ian hath Will from no other Source than from
the ~ower of willing freely as from himfelf; and
freely
136 ANGELIC WIS!)0.:.\1 CO~CERN1NG
freely to will, as from himfelf, is from the Faculty
continually given him by the Lord, which is called
Liber~v ; and Man hath Underfl:anding from no
I •
other Source than from the Power he hath, as of
himfelf, to underfland whether a Thing be of Rea..-
fon or n,ot ; and to underiland \Vhether it be of
Reafon or not, is from that other Faculty continu-
ally given hin1. by the Lord, which is called Ration-
ality. Thefc Faculties j.oin themfdves together in
.Man like the Will and the Underflanding ; as fOF
Infi:mce, becaufe Man can will, he can alfo under-
fiand, for Volition is not given without Underfi:and-
ing, Underfi:anding being its Confort or Compan-
ion, without which it cannot be;. wherefore with
the Faculty, which is called Liberty, is given the
Faculty which is called Rationality ; and further,
if you take away Volition from Underftanding, you
underfi:and Nothing, and in Proportion as you will,
in the fame Proportion you can underfiand, provi-
ded there be at Hand and at the fame Time are
opened thofe Affifiances, which are called Knowl-
edges, for thefe are like Infi:ruments in the Hands
of Artificers : It is faid that in Proportion as you
will, you can undcrfi:and, that is, in Proponion as
you love to underfiand, for \i'ilill and Love aa as
one ; this indeed appears as a Paradox, but it ap-
pears fo to thofe only \vho do not love to under-
fiand, and therefore will not, and they who will
not, fay they can~ot: But who they are that cannot
underfiand, and who they that can with Difficulty
underfland, will be fhewn in the following Article.
Without Confirmation it is evident, that if Man
had not \Vill from the Faculty which is called Lib.
erty,
TI-11: bnriNE PRoV:DENCE. I 37
trty, and Underfranding from the Faculty which is
called Rationality, he would not be l\lan. Beafb
have not thefe Faculties ; it appears as if Beafls
could alfo will, and could underfl:and, but they can-
not ; it is natural AffeCtion. which in itfelf is Defire
(Cupido,) with its concomitant Science, wbich alone
leadeth and prompteth them to do what they do :
There is indeed a ci\'il and moral Principle in their
Science, but they are not above Science, bccaufe
they have no fpiritual Principle, which &iveth to
perceive the moral Principle, and thence to think it
analytically : They can indeed be taught to do any
Thing, but this is only the natural Principle, which
:tddeth itfelf to their Science, and at the fame Time
to their AffeCtion, and is re-produced either by
Sight or by Hearing, but is never made a Principle of
Thought, and frill lefs of Reafon in them : Some-
thing on this SubjeCt may be feen above, n. 74·
That Man 'Without thofe t-wo Faculties could not be
conjoined to the Lord, and therefore could not be re-
formed and regenerated, was {hewn abo\'e ; for the
Lord refideth in thofe two Faculties in Men, as well
in the 'wicked as in the good, aDd by them he join-
eth himfelf to every Man : Hence it is, that a wick-
ed Man, as well as a good Man, can underfland,
and hence a wicked Man hath in his Power the
\:Vill of Good and the Under11anding of Truth,
:mel the Reafon why they are not in Acr, is from
the Abufe of thofe Facuhies. ihe true Ground
and Caufe why the Lord, refideth in thofe Faculties
in every Man, is from the Influx of the Will of the
Lord, in that he willeth to be received by Mau,
and to make his Abode wi~h him, and to give him
S the
138 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
the Felicities of eternal Life ; thefe Things arc of
the ·will of the. Lord, becaufe they are of his Divine
Love. It is this \Viii of the Lord, which caufeth it
to appear in Man as of himfelf that he thinketh,
fpcaketh, willeth, and aB:eth. That the Influx of
the \:Vill of the Lord hath this Operation, may be
confirmed by many Particulars from the fpiritual
Vvorld ; for fornetimes the Lord filleth an Angel
with hi~ Divine Principle, fo that the Angel know-
eth no other than that he is the Lord ; in this
Manner were thofe Angels filled, who were feen
by Abraham, Hagar, and Gideon, who therefore
called themfelves Jehovah, of which Mention is
made in the \Vord : So alfo can one Spirit be filled
by another, until he doth not know but that he is
the other, as hath often been feen by me : More-
over it is known in Heaven, that the Lord operateth
all Things by Volition (per Vdle,) and that what
he willeth is done. Hence it is evident, that thofe
two Faculties are the Means, by which the Lord con-
joineth himfelf to Man, and by which he caufeth
1\'lan to be reciprocally conjoined to him. But how
Man by thofe two Faculties is reciprocally conjoin-
ed, confequently how by them he is reformed and
regenerated, was faid above, and more will be faid
of it below. 'That Man without thofe two Faculties
•would net have Immortality and Eternal Life, follows
from what hath juft been faid, that by them there
is effeCted ConjunCtion with the Lord, and alfo Ref-
ormation and Regeneration ; by ConjunCtion Man
hath Immortality, and by Reformation and Regen-
eration eternal Life : And forafmuch as by thofe
Faculties there is a ConjunCtion of the Lord with
every
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 139
every Man, as well the Wicked as the Good, as
was faid above, therefore every Man hath Immor-
tality ; but he alone hath eternal Life, that is, the
Life of Heaven, in whom there is a reciprocal Con-
junction from Intimates [inmofl: Parts] to Ultimates.
Hence may be feen the Reafons, why the Lord pre-
ferveth thofe two Faculties in Man inviolable, and
as it were facred, in every Progreffion of his Divine
Providence.
97· VIII. That therefore it is of the Di·vine Prov-
idetzce, that Man jhl;uld ac? from Liberty according to
_ Reafon. To act from a free Principle according to
Reafon, and to au from Liberty and Rationality, is
the fame Thing, as alfo to att from the Will and
the Underfb.nding; but it is one Thing to aCl from
a free Principle according to Reafon, or from Lib-
erty and Rationality, and another to atl: from effen-
tial Freedom according to efiential Reafon, or from
effential Liberty and e!fential Rationality ; becaufc
the Man who doeth Evii from the Love' of E·•il.,
and confirms it in himfelf, the fame aB:cth indeed
from Liberty according to Reafon, but neverthe!efs
his Liberty in itfelf is not Liberty, or not effential
Liberty, but it is infernal Liberty, which in itfdf ~e
Slavery, and his Reafon in itfelf is not Reafon, but
it is either J{mrious or falfe Reafon, or Reafoi). only
appearing fuch from Confirmations : But Hill both
are of the Divine Providence ; for if the free Power
of willing Evil, and of making it as it were a Pr1nci-
p1e of Rcafo:ri' by Confirmations, were taken away
from the natur;.ll Man, Liberty and Rationality
would p~rifn, and at the fame Time the Will and
the U!1dedhnding, and it would not be poffible for
him
140 Al\GEllC \VISDOM CONCERNING
him to be withdrav.:n from Erils, and reformed, nor
confequentiy to be conjoined to the Lord, and live
to Etemity : \Vherefore the Lord guardeth Liberty
in Aian, as Man guardeth the Apple of his Eye.
Bur flill the Lord by Liberty continually withdraw-
eth 1\:Jan from Evils, and in Proportion as by Liber-
ty he can withdraw him, in the fame Proportion by
Liberty he implanteth Goods : thus fucceffively in
Place of infernal Liberty he invefl:s him with celef~
tial Liberty. ·
98. It was faid above, that every Man hath a Fac.,.
ulty of willing, which is called Liberty, and a Fac-
ulty of underilanding, which is called Rationality ;
it is, however, well to be attended to, that thefe Fac-
ulties are as it were inherent in Man, for the effen-
tial Human Principle refides in them : But, as was
obferved above, it is one Thing to aEl: from Liberty
according to Reafon, and another to acr from effen-
tial Liberty according to effential Reafon: No oth-
ers aCl: ·from cffential Liberty according to effential
Rcafon, but they who have fuffered themfelves to
be regenerated by the Lord ; the refl: aCt from Lib-
erty according to their Thought, which they make
like unto Reafon. Nevcrthelefs, every Man, unlefs
he be born an Idiot, or extremely fl:upid, may attain
to effential Reafon, and thereby to cifential Liberty ~
the Caufes why he doth not attain thereto are fever-
a!, as will be fhewn in \vhat follows : We fhall here
only point out to whom effential Freedom, or eifen-
tial Liberty, and at the fame Time effential Reafon,
or eifential Rationality, cannot be given, and to
whom they are given with Difficulty. Eifential
Liberty and eifcntial Rationality pnnot be given to
thofe
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. I4I
thofe who are born Idiots ; nor to thofe who after-
\.Yards become Idiots, fo long as they remain fuch.
Effential Liberty and effential Rationality cannot be
given to fuch as are born fiupid and filly, nor to
fome who become fuch from the Torpor of ldle-
nefs, or from Sicknefs, which perverterh or entirely
dofeth the Interiors of the Mind, or from the Love
of a beafl:ly Life. Neither can effenti~l Liberty and
eifential Rationality be given to thofe in the Chrif-
tian \Vorld, \vho altogether deny the Lord's Divin-
ity, and the SanB:ity of the Word, and have kept
this Negation confirmed in themfelves to the End of
Life ; for this is underfrood by the Sin againfl: the
Holy Ghofl:, which is not forgiven in this \Vorld,
nor in that which is to come, Matth. xii. 3r, 32.
Neither can effential Liberty and effential Rational-
ity be given in thofe, who attribute all Things to
Nature, and Nothing to the Divine Principle, and
have made this a Part of their Faith by Reafonings
from vifible ObjeB:s ; for all fuch are Atheifts. Ef.
fential Liberty and effential Rationality are giYen
with Difficulty in thofe who have confirmed them-
feh·cs much in Falfes of Religion ; becaufe the Con-
.firmer of what is Falfe is the Denier of Truth : But
they who have not fo confirmed thcmfelves, may at-
tain to true Liberty and Rationality, of whatfoever
Religion they may be ; on which SubjeCt fee what
is adduced in THE DocTRINE oF THE NEw fERu-
SALEM co~CERNING THE SAcRED ScRIPTURE,
n. 91 to 97· . Infants and Children cannot come
into effential Liberty and eifential Rationality, be-
fore they grow up ( tetafe adolefcunt ;) becaufe the
Jnteriors of the Mind in Man are fucceilively open-
ed;
142 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
ed ; in the mean Time they are like Seeds irr unripe
Fruit, which cannot germinate in the Ground.
99· It was faid, that eifential Liberty and eifential
Rationality cannot be given in thofe who have de-
nied the Lord's Divinity, and the SanD:ity of the
Word ; neither in thofe who have confirmed them-
felves for Nature againfl: the Divine Principle; and.
hardly in thofe who have much confirmed them- -
felves in Falfes of Religion : But fl:ill, thefe have
not loft thofe Faculties themfelves : I have heard
Atheifl:s, who were become Devils and Satans, who
underfl:ood Arcana of Wifdom as well as Angels,
yet only- v•hen they heard them from others ; but
when they returned into their own Thoughts, ~hey
did not underfl:and them ; the Reafon was, becaufe
they would not ; but it was !hewn them, that they
alfo c~uld will to underfl:and them, if the Love
and confequent Delight of E,vil did not prevent
them ; this alfo they underfrood, when they heard
it, yea they affirmed that they could, and were able,
but that they did not will to be able;-'oecaufe thereby
they would not b~able to will what they did will,
which was Evil from the Delight of the Concupi-
fcence thereof : Such wonderful Things in the fpi-
ritual \Vorld have I often heard ; from which I ·was
fully confirmed, that every Man hath Liberty and
Rationality ; and that every- one may' come into
eifential Liberty and dfential Rationality, if he !hun-
neth Evils as Sins. But the Adult, who doth not
come into eifcntial Liberty and eifential Rationality
in the World, can never come into them after
Death, for then the State of his Life remaineth to
Eternity, fuch as it had b~c:n in the \\"orld.
Tbat
THE DIVIHE PROVIDENCE. 143
Tlzat it is a Law of the Divine PTovi-
dence, thq.,t Man as front hinife!fJlwuld
re;npve Evils as Sins in tlze external
JVIan, and that thus and no otherwije
the Lord can nmove Evils in tlze inter-
nal l\1an, and then at the fame Time
in the external.
100. EVERY one may fee from Reafon alone,
that the Lord, who is Good itfelf and
Truth itfelf, cannot enter into Man, unlefs Evils
and Falfes in him are removed, for Evil is oppofite
to Good, and what is Falfe is oppofite to what is
True ; and two Oppofites n~ver can be mixed, but
when one approacheth the other, a Combat enfues,
which continueth until one giveth Place to the oth-
er, and that which giveth Place departeth, and the
other fucceedeth. In fuch Oppofition are HeaYen
and Hell, or the Lord and the Devil : Can any one
think from Reafon, that the Lord can enter where
the Devil reigneth ; or that Heaven can be where
Hell is ? ·who doth not fee, by' Virtue of the Ra-
tionality given to every Man of found Mind, that,
in Order that the Lord may enter, the Devil is to be
caft out, or that Heaven may enter, Hell is to be
removed ? This Oppofition is meant by the Words
of Abraham out of Heaven to the rich Man in Hell,
" Between us and you there is a great Gulph fixed,
that they which would pajsfrom h."nce to you, cannot;
neither can tbcy pafs to us, that 1..c:ould come from
thence,"
144 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
thence," Luke xvi. 26. Evil itfelf is Hell, and
Good itfelf is Heaven, or v.rhat i11 the fame, Evil it~
felf is the Devil, and Good itfelf is the Lord, and a
lYian, in whom Evil reigneth, is a Hell in its leafi:
Form, and a Man in whom Good reigneth, is a
Heaven in its leaft Form : This being the Cafe~
how can Heaven enter into Hell, when between
them fo great a Gulph is fixed, that there is no
palling from the one to the other ? Hence it fol-
lows, that Hell is entirely to be removed, that
the Lord may be able to enter with Heaven.
IOI. But many, efpecially they who have cone
firmed themfelves in Faith fcparate from Charity, d·o
not know that they are in Hell, when they are in
Evils, and do not indeed k.now what Evils are, by
Reafon that they think Nothing of them ; faying,
that they are not under the Yoke of the Law, and
therefore that the Law doth not condemn them ; al-
fo, that whereas they cannot contribute any Thing to
their o~n Salvation, they cannot remove any Evil
from themfelves; and moreover, that they cannot
do any Good from themfelves: Thefe are they, who
vmit to think of Evil, and becaufe they omit to
think of it, they are continually in it. That thefe
are they who are me:mt by the Goats fpoken of in
Matthew, may be feen in the DocTRINE OF THE
NEw }ERUSALEM coNCERNING FAITH, n. 6r to
68, of whom it is faid, Verfe 41 of Chap. xxv.
" Depart from Jo.![~, ye curftd, into cverlqfling Fire
preparedfor the Devil and his Angels.11
For they
who think Nothing of Evils in themfelves, that is,
who do not explore themfelves, and afterwards de-
fill: from them) cannot but be ignorant what Evil is,
and
THE DiVINE PROVIDENCE. LH
and then love it from the Delight thereof; for he
who doth not know what is Evil, the fame loveth it,
and he who ornitteth to think of it, the fame is con•
tinually in it, being like a blind Man who doth not
fee ; for the Thought feeth Good and Evil, as the
Eye feeth what is beautiful anJ unbeautiful; and
he is in Evil, as well who thinketh and '\Villeth it,
us he who beiieverh Evil doth not appear before
God, and that it is forgiven if it app~areth, for thus
he thinketh that he is without Evil: lffuch Perfons
abfiain from doing Evils, they do not abflain becaufe
they are Sins againfi God, but becaufc they are afraid
bf the Laws ami of their Reputation ; neverthelefs
they do Evils in their Spirit, for it is the Spirit of Man
which thinketh and willeth, \vherefore that which a
Man thinketh in his Spirit in the \Vorld, the fame
he doeth after his Departure out of the INorld,
when he becomes a Spirit. In the fpiritual \Vodd,
into which every Man cometh after Death, it is not
afked what has your .Faith been, nor what your Doc.
trine, but what hath your Life been ; thus the In-
quiry is concerning the Nature and ~ality of the
Life; for it is known that fuch as-any one's Life is,
fuch is his Faith, yea ·ruch his DoCtrine ; inafmuch
01s the Life formeth to itfelf Dofrrine, and formeth
to itfelf Faith. I'
102. From what hath jufi been faid it may appear,
that it is a Law of the Divine Providence, that
Evils be removed by Man, for without the Removal
of them the Lord cannot be conjoined to Man, anJ
le'ad him from Self into Heaven. But forafrnuch as
it is not known, that Man ought as from himfdf to
remove Evils in the external Man, and that unlds
T ~\hn
146 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
Man doeth this as from himfelf, the Lord canno~
remove Evils in him in the internal Man, therefore
we fhall proceed to exhibit this to the View of Rea.
fan in its Light, in the following Order. I. Thaa
every Man hath an External and an Internal Prin-
ciple of Thought. II. That the Externai Principle
of the Thought of l\'lan is in itfelf fuch as its Inter-
nal is. III. That the Internal Principle cannot be
purified fi:om the Concupifcences of Evil, fo long
as E\•ils in the Extemal Man are not removed, be-
caufe they obfirua. IV. That Evils in the Exter-
nal Man cannot be removed by the Lord, but by
Means of Man. V. That therefore Man ought to
remove Evils from the External Man as from him.
felf. VI. That the Lord then purifieth Man from
the Concupifcences of Evil in the Internal Man, and
from the Evils thenifelves in the External. VII.
That it is the Continuum E
continual Endeavour] of
the Divine Providence of the I.ord, to join Man to
ljimfelf, and Himfelf to Man, that he may be able
to give him the Felicities of eternal Life ; which
cannot be done, but in Proportion as Evils with
their CoDcupifcences are removed..
103. I. That e-very Man hath an external and an
intcmal PriJzcip!e of'Thought. By the external and
internal Principle of Thought is here underfiood
the fame as by th~ external and internal Man, which
means Nothing elfe but the External and the Inter-
nal of the \Viii and Underllanding, for the Will
and Underfi.anding make the l\1an; and forafmuch
as thefe two manifefl themfelvcs in the Thoughts,
..it is called the external and internal Principle of
Thought i now whereas it is not the Body of Man~
but
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 147
but his Spirit whi~h willerh and underfl:andeth, and
thence thinketh, it follows, that this external and
internal Principle is the External and Internal of
the Spirit of Man. Bodily AB:ion, whether exerted
in Speech or in Work, is only an EffeCt from the
Internal and External of Man's Spirit, for the Body
is only Obedience.
I 04. That every 1\'Ian in an advanced Age hath
an external and an internal Principle of Thought,
therefore an external and an internal Principle of
\Vill and Undedl:anding, or an External and an
Internal of the Spirit, which is the fame with the
external and internal Man, is evident to every one,
who attends to the Thoughts and Intentions of
· another from his Speech or AClions ; and alfo to
his own Thoughts and Intentions, when he is i11
Company, and when he is not; for any one may
fpeak in a friendly manner with another in external
Thought, and yet be his Enemy in internal Thought;
any one may fpeak of Love towards his Neighbour,
and of Love towards God, from external Thought
and at the fame Time from its AffeB:ion, when nev-
erthelefs in his internal Thought he maketh light
of his Neighbour, and doth not fear Gad: Any one
may alfo fpeak of the Juftice of civil Laws, of the
Virtues of moral Life, and of the Things which r~­
late to fpiritual DoClrine and Life, from external
Thought and AffeCI:ion, and yet, when he is alone
by himfelf, from internal Thought and its Afl"eB:ion,
fpeak againft civil Laws, againft moral Virtues, and
againfl: the Things which relate to fpiritual DoB:rine
and Life ; this is the Cafe with fuch as are in the
Concupifcences of Evil, and frill wifh to appear be-
fore
-148 Az-:oruc;: \VIsDm.t coN CEP,NING
fore the \Vorld not to be in them. Mofl: People
alfo, whilfl: they hear others fpeaking, think \Vith
themfelves, do they think interiorly in themfelves1
as they €xprefs their Thoughts in their Speech ?
Are they to be believed, or not f What is it they
intend ? That Flatterers and Hypocrites haYe a
double Thought, is kno\vn ; for they can contain
themfelves, and take Care that ~heir interior Thought
fnall not be opened, and indeed can conceal it more
and more interiorly, and as it were flmt up th~
Door left it fhould appear, That exterior Thought
and interior Thobght is given to Man, is evidently
manifefl: from this Confideration, that he can from
his interior Thought fee his exterior Thought, and
alfo refleCl: upon it, and judge of it, whether it b~ ·
~vil or not evil : This ~ality of his Mind Man de-
tiveth from the two Faculties, which he hath from
the Lord, called Liberty and Rationality ; from
which if he had not an external and a,n internal
Principle of Thought, he could not perceive ancl
fee any Evil in himfelf, and be reformed ; ye<l
neither could he fpeak, but only utter S~mnds like
~ Beafi.
IOS· The internal Principle of Thought is from
the Life's Love and its Affections and confequent
Perceptions ; the external Principle of Thought is
from the Things which are in the Memory, and
which are fubfervient to the Life's Love for Cono
firmations, and for Means to attain its End. Man,
from Infancy to Youth, is in the external Principle
of Thought derived from the AffeCl:ion of knowing,
which then makcth his internal Principle ; there
'tranfpircth alfo Sc~nething of Conctlpifce.nce anc!
thence
THE DIVINE PROVIDENc-E. 149
thence of Inclination derived from the Life's Love
connate from his Parents : But afterwards, as he
liveth, his Life's Love is formed, whofe AfFeetions
;md confequent Perceptions make the internal Prin.
ciple of his Thought, and from the Life's :f:ove is
produced the Love of Means, whofe Delights, and
the Sciences excited thence from the Memory, make
the external Principle of his Thought.
I o6. II. That the external Principle ifthe 'lbought
of Man is in iife!ffuch as its Internal is. That Man
from Head to Foot is fuch as his Life's Love is, was
fhewn above : Here therefore it may be expedient to
premife Something concerning the Life's Love, be-
fore we proceed to fpeak of the AfFections, which,
; together .with Perceptions, make the internal of
Man, and of the Delights of the Affections, togeth~
er with the Thoughts, which make his ExternaL
Loves are manifold, but there are two Loves like
Lords and Kings, celefiial Love and infernal Love ;
celeftial Love is Love to the Lord and neighbour-
Jy Love, and infernal Love is the LoYe of Self and
of the \Vorld ; thefe Loves are oppofite to each oth-
er, as Heaven and Hell; for he who is in the Love
of Self and of the World, willeth not Good to any
one but himfelf, but he who is in Love to the Lord
and in Love towards his Neighbour, the fame will~
~th Good to all. Thefe two Loves are the Life's
Loves of Man, but with much Variety ; celefl:ial
I...ove is the Life's Love of tnofe whom the Lord.,
leadeth, and infernal LoYe is the Life's Love of
thofe whom the Devil leadeth. But the Life's
Love of any one cannot exift without Derivations,
which are called Affeetions ; the Derivations of in~
fernal
150 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
fernal Love are AffeCl:ions of Evil and of what is
Falfe, properly called Concupifcences ; and the
Derivations of celefiial Love are AffeCl:ions of Good
and Truth, properly called Dileaions. The Affec-
tions qf infernal Love, which properly are Concupi-
fcences, are as many as there are Evils, and the Af-
feCl:ions of celeftial I~ove, which properly are Dilec-
tions, are as many as there are Goods. The Love
dwelleth in its i\ffed:ions, like a Lord in his Domain,
or like a King in his Kingdom : Irs Dominion and
Kingdom is over the Things which appertain to the
Mind, that is, which appertain to the Will and the
Underilanding of Man, and thence to his Body.
The Life's Love of Man, by its AffeCl:ions and the
Perceptions thence derived, and by its Delights and
the Thoughts thence derived, governeth the whole
Man, th~ Internal of h_is Mind by its AffeCl:ions and
the Perceptions thence derived, .and the External
of his Mind by the Delights of its AffeCl:ions and
the Thoughts thence derived.
107. The Form of this Government may in
fame Meafure be feen by Comparifons : Cele!lial
Love, with the AffeCl:ions of Good and Truth, and
the Perceptions thence derived, and at the fame
Time with the Delights of thefe AffeCl:ions and the
Thoughts thence derived, may be compared to a
Tree with beautiful Branches, Leaves, and Fruits ; .
the Life's Love is that Tree, the Branches with the
Leaves are the AffeCl:ions of Good and Truth with
their Perceptions, and the Fruits are the Delights
of the AffeCl:ions \vith their Thoughts. But infer-
nal Love, with its AffeCl:ions of Evil and of what is
Falfe, which arc Concupifcences) and at the fame
Time
THE DIVlNE PRoVIDENcE. ·r 5I
Time with the Delights of thefe Concupifcences
and the Thoughts thence deriveJ, may be compared
to a Spider and the \Veb which encompaffeth it ;
the Love itfelf is the Spider, the Concupifcences of
Evil and what is Falfe are the retiform Threads
nearefl: to the Seat of the Spider ; anJ the Delights
of thefe Concupifcence~ with deceitful Machinations
are the more remote Threads, where Flies are
caught, entangled, and devoured.
1 oS. From thefe Comparifons may indeed be
feen the Conjunaion of all Things of the Will and
Underfl:anding, or of the Mind of Man, with his
Life's Love, but yet not rationally : This Conjunc-
tion may be feen rationally thus : There are every
where three Things together ·which make one,
which are called End, Caufe, and EffeCl:; the Life's
Love in Man is the End, the AffeCl:ions with their
Perceptions are the Caufe, and the Delights of the
AffeCl:ions with their Thoughts are the EffeCl: ; for
in like Manqer as the End by the Caufe cometh into
Effea, fo alfo Love by its AffeCl:ions cometh to its
Delights, and by its Perceptions to its Thoughts :
EffeCl:s themfelves are in the Delights of the Mind
and their Thoughts, when the Delights are of the
\Vi!l and the Thoughts are of the Underftanding
thence derived, confequently when there is a full
Confent therein ; EffeB:s are in this Cafe EffeCl:s of
his Spirit, which, although they do not come into
bodily ACl:ion, are fl:ill as it were in ACt, when there
is Confent; they are alfo then together in the Body,
and dwell there with his Life's Love, and breathe
after ACl:ion, which is produced when Nothing hin.
dereth : Such are the Concupifccnces of Evil, and
Evils
152 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
Evils themfelves, in thofe, who make Evils allo'<\'a"'
ble in their Spirit. Now as the End joineth itfelf
'0\·ith the Caufe, and by the Caufe with the Effefr;
fo the Life's Love joineth itfelf with the internal
Principle of Thought, and by that with its external ~
hence it is el'ident, that the external Principle of the
Thought of Man in itfelf is fuch as its int~rnal isj
for rhe End infufeth all it hath into the Caufe; and
through the Caufe into the EffeCt, there being
Nothing effential in the EffeCt, but what is in the
Caufe, and through the ' Caufe in the End ; and
forafmuch as the End is thus the very effential Prin~·
ciple which entereth the Caufe and the EffeCt, there•
fore the Caufe and EffeCt are called the middle End
and the ultimate End.
109. It appears fometimes as if the external i'riri•
ciple of the Thought of Man was not in itfelf fuch
as its internal is ; but this cometh to pafs, becaufe
the Life's Love, with its Internals about it, placeth
a Subfl:itute below itfelf, which is called the Love of
l\leans, and enjoineth it to take Heed and guard left
any Thing of its Concupifcences fhould appear ;-
wherefore that Subfl:itute (or Deputy) from the
Craftinefs of its Prince, which is the Ufe's Love,.
fpeaketh and aCteth according to the civil Infiitu-
tions of the Kingdom, according to the Morals of
Reafon, and according to the Spirituals of•the
Church, and indeed fo cunningly and ingeniouf-
ly, that no one feeth but they are fuch as they
fpeak and aCt:, and at length, by encompaffing them~
felves with a Veil, they fcarcely know any otherwif..~
themfdves : Such are all Hypocrites ; and fuch are
Priefl:s, \vho in their Hearts make light of rhcir
Neighbour,
THE DIVINE P~OVIDJ!KCE.
Neighbour, and do not fear God, and yet preach cf
the Love of their Neighbour and the Love of God:
Such are Judges, who jtidge under the Influence of
Bribes and Friend/hips, when they pretend a Zeal for.
juflice, and fpcak from Reaion of Judgment: Such
~.re Merchants, infincere and fraudulent at Heart,
when they aft fii1cerely for the Sake of IntereJl: :
.!1.nd fuch are Adulterers, 'ivhen, from that Ration-
ality which every Man is poifeffed of, they fpeak ot~
the Chaftity of Marriage ; and fo in other Inflances.
But thefe fame l'erfons, if they !hip the Love of
Means, the Subfl:itutc of their Life's Love, of the
Garments of Purple and firte Linen, with which
they had inve!l:ed it, and clothe it in its domefl:ic
Drefs, theri they think, aild fometimes fpeak with
their niofl: intimate Friends, who are in a fimilar
Life's Love, direB:Iy the contrary. It may be
thought, that when they, from the Love of :Means,
have fpoken fo jufl:ly, finccrely, and pioufly, then
the Q:1ality of their internal Thought was not in
the External of their Thought, but fiill it was there.
in, there being Hypocrify and the Love of Self and·
of the \Vorld in thofe, whofe Cunning it is to feek
Reputation for the Sake of Honour or Intere!l: t(•
the lafl: Appearance : This ~ality of the internal
is in the external Principle of their Thought, whe.n
they fo fpeak and aB:.
1 ro. But in thofe who are in celeflial Lo\·e, the
internal and external Principle of Thought, or the
internal and external Man, atl as one, when th~y
fpeak, nor do they know any Difference ; their
Life's Love, with its AffeCtions of Good and the:r
Perceptions of Truth, is like the Soul in whatever
U they
'
154 ANGELIC 'VISDOM CONCERNING
they think, anJ thence fpeak and do ; if they are
Pridl:s, they preach from Love towards their Neigh-
~our and th~ Love of God ; if they are Judges,
they judge from Juftice itfelf; if they are Mer-
chants, they ~a from Sincerity itfelf ; if they are
married Men, they love their \Vives from Cha!lity
irfelf, and fo on. Their Life's Love alfo hath a
Love of Means, as a Subfl:itute, which it teacheth
and leadeth to aEt from Prudence, and clothes it
in Garments of Zeal for the Truths of Doarine,
and at the fame Time for the Goods of Life.
1 1 I. III. That the internal P rincip!e cannot be pu:
r!fied from t.~c Concupifcenccs ofEvil, fo long as Evib
in the extem.1l A1an arc not remo'l•ed, becmffe tbey ob~
firu{f, follO\vS from what was faid above, that the
external Principle of the Thought of Man is fuch.
in itfelf as the Internal of his Thought is, and that
they adhere together like that which is not only
within another, but is alfo from the other, where~
fore one of them cannot be feparated, unlefs the
other be feparated at the fame Time ; fo it i'l ·with
every external Principle which is from an internal,
and with every pofterior which is from a prior, and
with every Effect ·which is from a Caufe. Now f~r..
afmuch as Concupifcences, together with Crafti·
nefs, make the internal Principle of Thought in the
"'Wicked, and the Delights of Concupifcences to·.
gether with l\lachinations make the external Prin-
ciple of Thought in them, and the latter are joined
\Vith the former in one, it follows, that the internal
Principle cannot be purified from Concupifcences,
fo long as EYils in the external Man are not remov-
ed. It is to be noted, that it is the internal l.iVill of
Man
TnE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. ISS
Man which is in .Concupifcences, and that it is his
internal Underflanding which is in Craftinefs, and
that it is his external Will which is in the Delights
of Concupifcences, and his external Undcrfl:anding
which is in Mad)inations from Craftinefs: Every
one may fee that Concupifcences and their Delights
make one, alfo that Craftincfs and Machinations
make one, and that thefe four are in one Series,
and make together as it were one Bundle ; from
which Confideration it is again evident, that the in-
ternal Principle, which confifleth of Concupifcen.
ccs, cannot be cafl: out but by the Removal of the
external, which confifleth of Evils. Concupifcen-
ces by their Delights produce Evils, but when Evil~
are thought allowable, which is done by Confent of
the \Viii 2nd U nderfbnding, then the Delights and
Evil~ make one ; that Confent is an ACt, is well
known; which is alio what the Lord faith, "Ifanv
one looketh it a Woman, to h:/l oftcr her, be hatb al-
ready committed Adultery 'u.:ith bcr in his Heart,"
Ivlatth. v. z8 : It is the fame ·with other Evils.
1 I 2. Hence then it may appear, that in Order
to Man's being purified from the Concupiken<;es of
Evil, Evils are entirely to be removed from the ex-
ternal Man, for until this is done, there is no Exit
given to Concupilcences, and if an Exit (or Egrefs)
is not given them, Concupifcences remain within~
and breathe forth Delights from themfelves, and fo
drive Man to Confent, confequently to Action :
Convupifcences enter the Body by the External of
Thought, wherefore when there is Confent in the
External of Thought,· they are immediately in the
Body, the Delight which is felt being there: That
fuch
156 ANGELIC \VrsnoM coi\CERNING
fuch as the Mind is, fuch is the Body, confequently
' the whole l\Jan, may be feen in the Treatife concern.
ing THE DrvrNE LovE AND THE DIVINE \VrsnoMt
n. 36:2 to 370. This may be illuftrated by Com-
parifons, and alfo by Examples : By Comparifonr
thus ; Concupifc~nc~s with their Delights may b~
compared to Fire, which the more it is kindled, the
more !t burneth ; and the freer Extdnfion it hath,
the wider it fpreadeth itfelf, until in a City it con-
fmneth its Houfes, and ip a Wood its Trees ; the
Concupifcences of Evil ~lfo in the '\:Vord are com-
pared to Fire, and Evils proceeding from them to a
Conflagration ; the Concupifcences of Evil with
their Delights in th~ fpiritual \Vorld appear alfo as
Fires ; infern4l Fire is Nothing elfe. They may
alfo be compared to Deluges· and Inundations of
vVater~, when Mounds or Dykes are removed.
They may a!fo be compared to Gangrenes and
lm'pofrhumes, which bring pearh upon the Body, a:o
they fpread, or as thn <J.re not cured. By Exampkf
it is clearly evident, that if Evils in the external
Man are not removed, Concupifcences with the~r
Delights increafe and become exuberant : A Thief,
in Proportion as he fiealeth, in the fame Proportion
hath the Concupifcence of fiealing, till at length he
cannot defifl: :· The fame is true of a fraudulent
Perfon, in Proportion as he defraudeth : 1t is the
fame alfo •vith Hatred and Revenge, with Luxury
and Intemperance, with Adultery and Bla~Dhemy ;
that the Love of Dominion Grounded in the LoYc
of Self increafeth in Proportion as it is given \Yay
to, is well known ; in like Manner the Love of
poifeffing Goods grounded in the Love of the
· '\.Yorld t
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 157
\Vorld ; it appears as if there was no Bound or
End to them. From thefe Confiderations it is evi-
pent, that in Proportion as Evils in the external
Man are not removed, in the fame Proportion the
Concupifcences thereof abound ; alfo in fuch De-
gree as Evils are given Vfay to, in the fame Degree
'Concupifcences increafe.
I 1 3· Man cannot perceive the Concupifcences of
his o\\m Evil ; he perceiveth the Delights ·of them.
indeed, but he refleC\:s little·upon them, for Delights
occupy the Thoughts, and take away Refleaions ;
wherefore if he did not from fame other Source
know that they are Evils, he would call them
Goods, and would perpetrate them from Liberty
2ccording to the Reafon of his Thought ; anJ
2nd when he doeth this, he appropriates them to
pimfelf: In Proportion as he confirmeth them a:;
allowable, in the fame Proportion he enlargeth the
Court of his reigning Love, which is his Life'~
Love ; its Court is compofed of Concu])ifcences,
for they are as it were its l\liniflers and Guards,
whereby it govemeth the Exteriors which conili-
tute its Kingdm~ ; but fuch as the King is, fuch
me his Minifiers and Guards, and fuch is his King-
dom ; if the King is a Devil, then his Minifl:ers anJ
Guards are lnfanities, and the People of his King-
dom are Fdfes of all Kinds, which his Mini!ters,
whom they call wife, although they arc i!lfane, by
Reafonings from Fallacies and by Phantafies make
to appear as Truths, and to be acknowl~dged as
Truths. Can fuch a State of Man be changed
otherwife than by removing Evils in the external
~hn> for fo the Concupifcences alfo wh!(;h ;~dtere
'\ to
l58 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
to Evils are removed ; otherwife no Egrefs is af.
forded to Concupifcences, for they are !hut in, like
a befieged City, or an Ulcer fkinned m·er.. .. ·
I 14. IV. That Evils in the external Mcm cannot
be removed by the Lord but by Means of l'vJan. • In
all Chri!lian Churches this Doctrine is received,
that l\1an, before he approacheth the holy Commu-
nion, is to examine himfelf, to fee and acknowledge
his Sins, and to repent, b(defifring from them, and
rejecting them becaufe they are from the Devil ;
and that otherwife his Sins are not forgiven, and
that he is condemned : The Englifh, although they
are in the Doctrine of Faith alone, neverthelefs in
the Prayer at the holy Communion, openly teach
Self-examination, the Acknowledgment and Con..
feffion of Sins~ Repentance, and a new Life, and
threaten thofe, who do not comply, in thefe \Vords,
that otherwife the Devil will enter into them as he did
into Judas, andfill tbem <z.cith all Iniquity, and deflroy
them· Body and Soul. The Germans, Swedes, and
Danes, who are alfo in the DoQ:rine of Faith alone,
in the Prayer at the holy Communion teach the
fame, threatening alfo, that otherwife they will incur
infernal Punifhment, and eternal Damnation, ·Ly
Reafon of the 1\Jixture of what is facred and pro-
fane : Thefe Things arc read by the Prieft with a
louu Voice before thofe who are about to receive
the Lord's Supper, and are heard by them with•a
fu11 Acknowledgment that it is fo. Neverthelefs
the fame Pt:rfons, when they hear a Sermon the
fame Day on Faith alone, and then that the Law
doth not condemn them, becaufe the Lord had ful-
filled it for them, and that from themfelves they
cannet
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 159
cannot do any Good but v;·hat is meritorious, and
thus that \Vorks han~ Nothing of Salvation in
th~m, but Faith only, they return Home entirely
forgetful of their former Confdlion, and rejeain~
it, in Proportion ;tS they think of the St.:rmon on
Faith alone. \Vhich Doctrine now is true, the lat.
ter or the former ? (for two 'fhin;;s contrary t(j
each other cannot both be true) that without an
Examin:1tion, Knowledge, Acknowledgment, Con.
feffion and Rejection of Sins, therefore without Re-
pentance, there is no Remiffion thereof, confequent·
ly no Scllvation but eternal Damnation ? or that
fuch Things contribute Nothing to Salvation, be·
caufe full Satisfaction for all the Sins of l\len was
made by the Lord through the Paffion of the Crofs
, for thofc who are in Faith, and that they who are
in Faith on!y with a Confidence that it is fo, and in
Confidence of the Imputation of the Lord's Merit,
are without Sins, and that they appear before the
Lord like thofe who have their Faces clean waf1ied ?
Frbm the aboYe it is evident, that the common Re.
ligion of all the Churches in the Chrifi:ian World is,
that Man ought to examine himfelf,. to fee and ac-
knowledge his Sins, and afterwards to defifi: from
them, and that otherwife there is no Salvation, but
Condemnation. That this is moreover Divine
Truth itfdf, is evident from thofe Palfages in the
\Vord, where Man is commanded to repent, as
from thefe, " Jefus faid, Bring forth Fruits worthy of
REPENTANcr, 1zo.-:.v a!fo the Axe is laid untr; the Root
oftbe Trees ; e'very Tree therefore which bringeth not
forth good Fruit Jba!l be he~c.m down and cqfl into tbe
Fire," Luke iii. 8, 9· " Jefus faid, Except yc Rli·
}'!..NT,
160 ANC.ELIC \VrSDOM CONCERNING
PENT, yejlJa!l all perifb," Luke xiii. 3, 5· " Jifui
, preached the Gofpel ofthe Kingdom of God; R:EPENT
ye, and believe tbc Gofpel," Mark i. 14, 15. "Jcfus
.fmt forth bis Dijciplcs, who ·went out and preacbed
t!.,at A1cn Jbould REPENT," Mark vi. I 2. " Jifus
j1id unto tbe Apo.filcs, that tbcyjhouldpreach REPENT•
Ai,CE AND REMISSION OF SINS TO ALL NATIONS,"
Luke xxiv. 47· " John did preach the Bapt!fm of
REPENTANCE FOR THE REMISSION OF SINS,'~
Mark i. 4· Luke iii. 3· Think on this Subjetl:
CJlfo from fame Degree of Under!hnding, and if
you have any Religion, yo.u will fee, that Repent-
ance from Sins is the \Vay to Heaven, and that
Faith ft.parate from Repentance is not Faith, and
that they who are not in Faith in Confequence of
not being in Repentance, are in the \Vay to Hell.
1 r 5· They who are in Faith fepatate from Char- '
ity, and have confirmed themfelves therein from the
Saying of Paul to the Romans, " 'That ll1an is jz!ftz'-
jied by Fa;tb without tbe Works oftbe Law," iii. 28~
adore this Saying like thofe who adore the Sun, and
become like thofe who fix their Eyes fteadily upon
the Sun, whereby the Sight becoming dim, doth not
fee any Thing in the Midfl: of Light ; for they
do not fee what is underftood there by ·works of.
the Law, that they are the Rituals which are defcri-
bed by 1\lofes in. his Books, which arc every where--
there called the Law, and nof the Commaiidments.
of the Decalogue ; therefore left the Command-
fllents of the Decalogue fhould not be underftood, he
cxplaineth it by faying, "Do u·e then 1J1ake void tli8
Law by Faith? God forbid; yea we cjlablijh the
Law," Verfe 31, of the fame Chapter. They, who
from ·
•
THE DIVINE PRO\'IDENCE. I6I
from the above Saying have confirmed thcmfclvcs
in Faith feparate from Charity, by looking at thit
Palfage as at the Sun, do ·not fee \I'here Paui enu-
merates the Laws of Faith, that they are the very
'Vorks of Charity ; what then is Faith without its
Laws ? Neither do they fee where he enumerate:;
evil \Vorks, faying, that they who do them, cannot ·
enter into Hec:.ven. Fro1:1 which it is evident, what
lllindnefs is induced from this one Paffage mifun~
derftood.
I 16. The Ground and lleafori why Evils in the
external Man cannot be removed but by 1\leans of
Man, is, becaufe it is of the Divine Providence, that
whatfoever a Man heareth, feeth, thinketh, willeth,
fpeaketh, and deeth, fhould appear altogether as his
own ; that without this Appearance l\1an would
have no Reception of Divine Truth, no Detennina-
tion to do Good, no. Appropriation of Love and
"\Vifdom, alfo of Charity and Faith, and th~nce uo
ConjunCI:ion with the Lord, coniequently no Rdor~
h1ation and Rege71eration, and thereby S;1lv:J.tion, is
fuewn above, n. 71 to 95, and the following: That
without this Appearance, Repentance from Sins is
not 'poffible, yea nor Faith, is evident ; alfo that
1\lan, without that Appearance, is not Man, but
void of rational Life, like a Beafl:. Let him, \Vho is
fo difpofed, confult his own Reafon concerning this
Q_udhon, Doth it not appear that :Man thiuketh
from himfelf of Good and Truth, as well fpiritual
as moral and civil ? Let him then receive this Doc-
trinal, that all Good and Truth is from the' Lord,
and Nothing from Man: \Vill he not acknowledge
this Confequence, that Man oug!1t to do Good. and
I.V think
' .
162 ANGELIC \VrsDO.M CONCERHING
think Truth as from himfelf, but fiill to acknowl~
edge that they are from the Lord ; therefore alfo
that Man ought to remove Evils as from himfelf1
but fiill to acknowledge that he doeth it from the
Lord.
117. There are many who do not know that they
are in Evils, becaufe they do not commit them in
Externals ; for they are afraid of civil Laws, and
alfo of the Lofs of Reputation, and thus they ac~
quire a Cufl:om and Habit of !hunning Evils as det~
rimental to their Honour and Interefl: : But if they
do not !hun Evils from a Principle of Religion, be~
caufe they are Sins, and againfl God, then the Con~
cupifcences of Evil with their Delights remain in
them, like impure Waters obfl:rutl:ed or fl:agnated ;
let them explore their Thoughts and Intentions,
-and they will find fuch Concupifcences, provided
they know what Sin is. There are many fuch,
who have confirmed themfelves in Faith feparate
from Charity, who, beeauf~ they believe that the
Law doth not condemn, do not even attencl to Sins,
and indeed doubt whether there be any fuch Thing,
and that if there be, they are not fuch in the Sight
of God, becaufe they arc forgiven. Such alfo are
natural Moralifl:s, who think civil and moral Life
with its Prudence operates in all Things, and the
Divine Providence not in any Thing. Such alfo
are they who fl:udioufly afrea the Reputation and
Name of Honefl:y and Sincerity for the Sake of
Honour or Interefl:. But they who are fuch, and
at the fame Time fpurn Religion, after Death be~
come Spirits of Concupifcences, who appear to
themfelves as if they \vere real Men, but to others
at
•
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 163
at a Diftance as Priapufes ; and they fee in the
Dark, and not at all in the Light, like Owls.
x18. From thefe Confiderations now follows the
Confirmation of Article V, which is, 'That therefore
Man ought to rmlO'ue Evils from the external Man as
from hinifdf; which may alfo be feen explained in
three Articles in THE DocTRINE OF LIFE FOR THE
NEw jERUSALEM; in one, That no one can !hun
"Evils as Sins, fo as interiorly to have an Averfion
for them, but by Combats againfl: them, n. 92 to
Ioo. In another, That Man ought to fhun Evils as
Sins, and fight againft them as from himfelf, n. 1o I
to 107. In the third, That if any one flmnneth
EYils as Sins from ariy other Caufe, than becaufe
they are Sins, he doth not fhun them, but only
maketh them not to appear before the \Vorld, n.
108 to IIJ.
I 19. VI. 'That the Lord in this Cafe pur!fi~th Man
from Concupifcences in the internal .A'lan, and from
Evils then!fdvej in the external. The Reafon why
the Lord purifieth Man from .Concupifcences of
Evil, when Man removeth Evils as from himfelf, is
becaufe the Lord cannot purify him until Man do-
eth this ; for there are Evils in the external Man,
and Concupifcences of Evil in the internal, and
they cohere together like the Rocts of a Tree to
their Trunk : Wherefore unlefs the EYils are re-
moved, there is no Aperture ; for they obfiruB: and
fhut the Door, which cannot be opened by the Lord
but by Means of Man, as was fhewn abC\'e : When
Man fo opens the Door as from himfdf, then the
Lord at the f::.me Time extirpates Cor. ::upifcences.
·The Rca.fon dfo is, becaufe the Lord ,_acth upon
the
164 ANGELIC \VrSDOM CONCERNING
the lntimum [inmoft Part] of Man, and from the
Intimum upou. its Confequents to the Ultimates, and
in the Ultimates the Man is all together; fa long there-
fore as the Ultimates are kept !hut by the Man him-
felf, there cannot any Purification be effeCl:ed by the
Lord, but only fuch :m Operation in Interiors, as the
Lord produceth in Hell, whereof Man is a Form,
who is in Concupifcences and at the fame Time in E-
vils, which Operation is only a Difpofition that one
m:1y notdefl:.royanother,and thatGoodnefs andTruth
may not be violated. That the Lord continually
urgeth and pre!feth, that Man v•ould open the Door
to him, is evident from the Lord's Words in the
Revelation, "Behold I)land at·the Door, and knock;
ifany Man hear my Voice, and open the Door, I will
come in to him, and willjup with him, and he with
i'vfe," iii. 2.o.
120. lVIan knoweth Nothing at all of the interior
State of his Mind, or his internal Man, neverthelefs
there are three Infinite Things, 'vhereof not one
cometh to his Knowledge ; for the Internal of the
Thought of Man, or his internal Man, is his Spirit
itfelf, and in it there are as infinite or innumerable
Things, as there are in a Man's Body, yea frill more
innumerable, for the Spirit of Man i:> in its Form a
Man, and all Things thereof correfpond to all the
Things of a 1\Ian in his Body. Now as Man know-
eth Nothing from any Senfation, how his Mind or
Soul operateth jointly and feverally upon all Things
of his Body, fo neither doth Man know how the
Lord operateth upon all Things of his Mind or
~oul, that is, upon all Things of his Spirit ; the
Pile!;>tion !s continual ; in this Man hath no fhaie ';
but
TuE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 165
but yet the Lord cannot purify Man from any Con-
(:upifcence of Evil in his Spirit, or internal Man, fo
long as Man keepeth his External !hut ; there are
Evils, by which Man keepeth his External ihut,
whereof each appeareth to him as one, although
there are Infinites in each ; when Man removeth
this feeming one, then the Lord removeth the Infi-
nites Ih It. This is what is mc;int by the Lord's pu-
rifying Man from Concupifcences of Evil in the in~
• ternal Man, and from the Evils thcmfclvcs in the
external.
121. It is thought by many, that barely to believe
that which the Church teacheth, purifies a Man
from Evils ; and it is thought by fame, that to do
Good purifies ; by fame that to know, fpeak, and
teach fuch Things as are of the Church ; by fomc
that to read the \Vord and Books of Piety; by fomc
to frequent Churches, to hear Sermons, and efpecial-
ly to receive the Holy Supper ; by fame to renounce
the \Vorld, and fl:udy Piety ; by fome to confcfs
themfelves guilty of all Sins, and fo on. But
neverthelefs none of thefe Things do at all puri-
fy a Man, unlefs he explore himfelf, fee his Sins,
acknowledge them, condemn himfelf for them,
and repent by defifl:ing from them ; and all thcfe
Things he mufl: do as from himfelf, but fl:ill from
an Acknowledgment at Heart that he doeth them
from the Lord. Before this is done, the above~
named ACts anil Nothing, for they are either
meritorious or hypocritical ; and they appear in
Heaven before the Angels either like beautiful Har-
lots fmelling ofTenfi\'cly from their Difeafes; or like
deformed \Vemen appearing handfomc by putting
on /
I
166 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
on Paint ; or like perfonating Players and Mimics
on the Stage ; or like Apes in human Apparel.
But when Evils are removed, then the above-men-
tioned Aas become Aas of the Love, and the Doers
thereof appear in Heaven before the Angels as ~eau­
tiful Men, and as their Aifociates and Companions.
122. ·But it is well to be attended to, that Man
in doing the 'Vork. of Repentance ought to look
np to the Lord only ; if be looks up to God the
Father only, he cannot be purified ; nor if to the
Father for the Sake of the Son ; neither if to the
Son as a Man only ; for there is one God, and the
Lord is He, for his Divine and his Human [Eifence]
confi:itute one Perfon, as is fhewn in Ti-IE Doc-
TRINE OF THE NEW }ERUASALEIVI CONCERNING
THE LoRD. That every one in doing Repentance
might look to the Lord only, the Holy Supper was
infi:ituted by Him, which confirms the Remiffion of
Sins with thofe who repent ; it confirms it, becaufe
in that Supper, or Communion, every one is kept
looking to the Lord only.
I 23. VII. That it is the * CoNTINUUM [contin-
ual Endeavour] ofthe Divine Providence ofthe Lord,
to join Man to hin!felf and himfelf to Man, that he
may be able to give him the Felicities of eternal Life ;
which cannot be done, but in Proportion as Evils 'l.iJttb
th::ir Concup!fcences are rtl!Zoved. That it is the Conti-
nuum
* The \Vords lntim11m and Contiltuum are preferved in the Tranfla.
tion for the Sake of a Diftinction, which feems intended by the Au-
thor. The lmbnum of the Divine Providence is the inmoft End,
Purpofe, and Object, and the Continuum is a continual Endeavour to
operate certain Things as Means conducive to this End. In lhort, the
/Jrtimum is the End, the ContiJzu11m is the Mean~ or Ce.~fc, and the
U/:imzm: is the Effect.
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. I6]
nuum [continual Endeavour] of the Divine Provi-
dence of the Lord to join Man to Himfelf and Him-
felf to Man, and that it is this ConjunCtion which
is called Reformation and Regeneration, and that
Man thence hath Salvation, was !hewn above, n. 27
to 45· 'Who doth not fee that ConjunC\:ion with
God is eternal Life and Salvation? This every one
fees who believeth, that Men by Cre:1tion are Im-
ages and Likeneifes of God, Genefis i. 26, 27 ;
and who knoweth what an Image and Likenefs of
God is. \Vho that hath found Reafon, when he
thinks from his Rationality, and wills to think from
his Liberty, can believe that there are three Gods,
equal in Eifence, and that the Divine Eife or Di-
vine Eifence can be divided ? That there is a Trine
[threefold Principle] in one God, may be thought
and comprehended, as the Soul and Body.is com-
prehended in an Angel and in a Man, and the
Sphere of Life proceeding from them ; and where-
as this Trine in one exifl:s only in the Lord, it fol-
lows, that ConjunC\:ion mufl: be with Him : Make
Ufe of your Rationality, and at the fame Time of
your Liberty of thinking, and you will fee this
Truth in its Light, admitting only firfl:, that there
is a God, and that there is a HeaYen, and eternal
Life. Now forafmuch as God is one, and Man by
Creation was made an Image and Likenefs of Him,
and forafmuch as by infernal LoYe, and its Concu-
pifcences, and their Delights, he came into the Love
of all Evils, and thereby defl:royed the Image and
Likenefs of God in himfelf, it follows, that it is the
Continuum of the Divine Providence of the Lord,
that he may conjoin Man to Himfelf and Himfelf
to
168 ANGELIC \VI&DOl\1 CONCERNING
to Man, and thus caufe Man to be his Image: That
this is to the Intent, that the Lord may be able to
give Man the Felicities of eternal Life, follows alfo,
for fuch is the Nature of the Divine Love: But the
Reafon why he cannot give thofe Felicities, nor
- make :Man an Image of Himfelf, except Man as
from himfe1f remove Sins in the external 1\lan, is,
becaufe the Lord is not only Divine Love, but alfo
Divine vVifdom, and Divine Love doeth Nothing'
but from its Divine ·wifdom, an~ according to it :
That Man cannot be conjoined to ~he Lord, and fo
reformed, regenerated, and faved, unlefs he is per-
mitted to act from Liberty according to Reafon;
(for thereby Man is Man) is according to his Di-
vine \Vifuom, and whatfoever is according to the
Divine \Vifdom of the Lord, that alfo is of his Di-
vine Providence.
I 24. To what hath been faid I will add two Ar-
cana of Angelic \Vifdom, from which the Nature
of the Divine Providence may be feen ; the firft is,
that the Lord never acts upon any particular Prin-
ciple in Man feparately, unlefs upon all at once :
The other is, that the Lord acts from Intimates
[inmofl: Principles] and from Ultimates [laft or
Iowefl: Principles] at once. 'The Reqfon why the
Lord ne·-uer a{fetb upon any particular Principle in
}/Ianfeparately, unlefs uprm all at once, is, becaufe all
Things of Man are in fuch Connexion, and by
their Connexion in fuch Form, that they act, not
as many, but as one : That Man, as to his Body,
is in fuch Connexion, and by that Connexion in
fuch a Form, is known; in a fimilar Form, by Vir~
tue of the Connexion of- th~ \\Thole, is the hu~
man
THE DiviNE PRovinn;cE. I 69
inan Mind alfo, for the human Mind is the fpiritual
Man; and is moreover aCtually a M~n: Hence it is
that the Spirit of Man, which is his Mind in the
Body, is in: every Particular of its Form a Man,
'Wherefore Man after Death is equally a T\Ian as in
the World, only with this Difference, that he hath
put off that Covering which confiituted bis Body
in the \Vo:dd. Now forafmuch as the human Form
is fuch, that all its Parts make one common [Form]
'vhich aB:s as one, it follows, that one Part cannot
be removed out of its Place and changed as to its
State, but in Confent \vith the refl:, for if one were
moved out of its Place and changed as to its Stare,
the Form would fufler, tvhich mufl: aa as one.
Hence it is evident, that the Lord never aEl:s upon
any particular Part or !'rinciple, unlefs upon all at
once : Thus doth the Lord aa upon the univerfal
Angelic Heaven, becaufe the univerfal Angelic
Heaven in the Sight of the Lord is as one Man ; fo
alfo doth the Lord aCl: upon every .Angel, becaufc
every Angel is a Heaven in its leaf!: Form ; fo alfo
doth he aCl: upon every Man, proximately upon all
Things of his Mind, and through thefe upon all
Things of his Body ; for the Mind of Man is his
Spirit, and according to its Conjunction with the
Lord is an_Angel, and his Body is Obedience.
But it is well to be obfcrved, that the Lord atl:eth fin~
gularly, yea mofi fingularly, alfo upon every Particu.
lar of Man, but at the fame Time through all Things
of his Form; neverthelefs he doth not change the
State of any Part, or of any Thing in particular, ex.
cept conveniently to the whole Form : But of this
more will be faid in what follows, where it will be de~
X mon!lrated,
170 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
monfhated, that the Divine Providence ofthe Lord is
univerfal, becaufe it is in Singulars, and that it is fin-
gular becaufe it is univerfal. The Rcqfon wby tbe Lord
a{/etbfrom Intimates [inmq/l Principles] andfrom Ulti-
mates [lqfl or loH'(jl Principles] at once, is, becaufe thus
and no otherwifc all and fingular Things are contain-
ed in their Connexion ; for Intermediates depend fuc-
ceffively upon Intimates [inmofl: Principles] even to
Ultimates, and in Ultimates "
they exifl: all together ;
for in the Treatife en THE DIVINE LovE AND THl:
DIVINE '\VIsDoM, in Part the Third, it is fhewn,
that in the Ultimate [Part or Principle] there is
the Simultaneous derived from the Firfl of all Prin-
ciples. Hence alfo it is, that the Lord from Eter-
nity, or Jehovah, c_ame into the \:Vorld, and there
put on and a!fumed the Human [Nature] in Ulti-
mates [lafl: or lowefl: Principles,] that he might be
from firfl: Principles at the fame Time in Ultimates,
and thus from firft Principles by Ultimates govern
the univcrfal \Vorld, and fo fave Men, whom he can
fave:>. according to the Lav.;s of his Divine Provi-
dence, which are alfo the Laws of his Divine '\Vif-
dom. In this Manner, therefore, it is true, what is
known in all Chrifl:ian Countries, that no Mortal
could have been faved, except the Lord had come
into the \Vorld, concerning which fee THE Doc-
TRINE OF THE NEW jERUSALEl\( CONCERNING
FAITH, n.. 35· Hence it i3 that the Lord is called
the Firfl: and the Lafl.
125. Thefe Angelic Arcana arc premifed, in
Order that it may be comprehended, how the Di-
\'ine Providence of the Lord operates, that he may
conjoin Man to Himfelf, and Himfelf to Man ; thu
lS
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. I7I
is not effetl:cd upon any Particular of l\'lan feparate-
ly, except upon all of him at once ; and this is done
from the Intimum [inmofl: Principle] of Man, and
from his Ultimates at once : The Intimum of Man
is his Life's Love, his Ultimates are the Things
which are in the External of his Thought, his In-
termediates arc the Things \vhich are in the Inter-
nal of his Thought ; the Nature and ~ality of
thefe Principles, in a wicked Man, was lhewn in the
foregoing Pages ; from which Confideration it is
again evident, that the Lord cannot aft: from Inti-
mates and Ultimates at once, except together with
Man, for 1\ian is together with the Lord in Ulti-
mates ; wherefore as Man atl:eth in Ultimates,
which are at his Difpofal, becaufe they are fubjeCl:
to his Free-will, fo the Lord aaeth from lJiS Inti-
mates, and 'upon Succeilives to Ultimates. The
Things which are in the Intimates of lVIan, and in
Succeffives from the Intimates to the Ultimates,
are altogether unknown to Man, and therefore
Man is totally ignorant how and what the Lord
operates there.; but forafmuch as they cohere as
one with the Ultimates, therefore it is not neceifary
for Man to know more than that he ought to fhun
Evils as Sins, and look up to the Lord. Thus and
no otherwife can his Life's LoYe, which by Birth is
infernal, be removed by the Lord, and a Love of
celellial Life be implanted in Place of it.
1 z6. \Vhen the Love of celefl:ial Life is implant-
ed by the Lord in Place of the Love of infern:tl
Life, then in Place of the Concupifcences of Evil
and what is Falfe are implanted 1\ffeClions of Good
and Truth, and in Place of the Delights of the
Concupifcences
172 .ANGELIC \VISDOl\1 CONCERNING
Concupifcen.ces of Evil and what is Falfe are im~
planted Delights of the Affeaions of Good, and in
Place of the Evils of infernal Love are implanted
the Goods of cele!l:ial Love : Then in!l:ead of Cun-
ning is implanted Prudence, and infiead ofT~oughts
of Malice are implanted Thoughts of \Vifdom ;
, Thus .Man is born again, and becometh a new Man.
\Vhat Goods fucceed in Place of Evils, may be feen
in THE DocTRINE oF LIFE FOR THE Nnv JE~
RUSALEM, n. 67 to 73, 74 tO 79, 8o to 86, 87 to 911
Alfo, ~hat in Proportion as· a M~n flmnneth and
turneth away from Evils as Sins, in the fame Pro~
portion he loveth the Truths of Wifdom, n. 32 to
41 ; and that in the fame Prop.ortion he hath Faith,
and becometh fpiritual, n. 42 to 52~
127. That it is the common Religiop in the uni-
verfal Chrifl:ian Vvorld, that Man iho:uld examine
himfelf, fee his Sins, acknowledge them, confefs
them before God, and defifi from them, and that
this is Repentance, Remiffion ofSins, and thence Sal-
vation, was Ipewn above from the Prayers read before
the Holy Communion in all the Chri!l:ian,Churches.
The fame may alfo appear from the Creed, which
hath its Name from Athanafius, which alfo is
rcceived in the whole Chrifl:ian \Vorld, where at
the End there ~rc thefe Words, 'The Lord 'lvill comfJ
to judge botb the .R.!.,<ick and tbe Dead, at whofe Com.
ing they wbo have done Good, will enter into Lift eter•
ual, and tbey who bave done Evil, into eternal Fire.
128. \Vho doth not know from the 'iVord, that
the Life of every one after Death is according to
his AClions ? Open the \Vord, read it, and yo~
\\-·ill clearly fee it, but ;n this Cafe remove your
Thoughts
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. I 73
Thoughts from Faith, and Jufl:ification by it alone.
That the Lord in his \Vord every where teacheth
~his, let thefe few Pa!fages tefiify, " Every crrce
whhb bringeth not forth GOOD FRUIT, Jba!l be cut
down and cafi into the Fire ; wherefore by their
FRUITS ye jha!! know them," M.atth. vii. I 9, 20.
" Many will fay to Me in that Day, Lord, have we
not prophifted in thy Name, and in thy Name done
many wondetful Works ; but tbm 'i.vill I profefs unto
them, I never knew you, departfrom lv!e ye th.1t ·work
lNIQYITY," Matth. vii. 22, 23. "Whofoe·z:er hc.1r·
etb my TYords and DOETH THEM, I u•ill liken him
mzto a wife Afan which built his lioufe upon a Rock ;
but e•very one that heareth my Words and DOETH
THEM NOT,foa/1 be likened unto afoo!~lh Afan which
built his Hozife upon the Sand," Matth. vii. 24, 26. ,
Luke vi. 46 to 49~ " The Son rf Man foal! come in
_the Glory of his Father, and then foal! he RE\VARD
~VERY ONE ACCORDING TO HIS "i.VORKS," 1\Jatth.
"vi. 27. " The Kingdom rf Godfoal! be ta!.en from
you, and given to .
a Nation BRINGING FORTH THE
FRUITS THEREOF," Matth. xxi. 43· "Jcjusfaid,
·my Mother and my Bi'ethren are theft, which hear the
Word rf God and DO IT," Luke viii. 2 I. " Thm
j'C foal! begin toflattd without· and to knock at the
Door, faying, Lord, open to us ; but he foal! anfwer
andfay unto you, I know you not wbence you are, de-
part from Me all ye \VoRKERS rf Iniquity," Luke
:xiii. 25 to 27. "Andfoallcomeforth, they tbat ha·ve
done Good, unto the Refurrc8ion of Life, and they tbat
have done EviL, un!o the Refurre8ion rf judgment,"
John v. 29. " We know tbat God hcareth not SIN-
NERs, hut if any Man be a Worjhipper rf God, AND
DOETfi
174 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
I50ETH HIS \VILL, him he heareth," ix. 31. " Ijye
know tbe.fo Things, happy are ye if ye DO THEM,''
John xiii. 17. "He that bath my Commandments.,
and DOETH THEM, he it is tbat lowtb Me, and I
•will low him, and 'l.e,•i/1 come to him, and u•i/1 make my
Abode with him," John xiv. 15, 21 to 24. "Ye
are my Friends, IF YE Do whatfoe•vcr I command you :
I have chq(en you, that yejhould BRING FORTH FRUIT,
and that YOUR FRUITjhou/d remain," John xv. 14,
16. " 'The Lordfaid unto John, unto tbe Angel of
the Churcb ofEpbefus write, I KNOW THY WoRKS :
I have agair!J'l thee, that tbou bafl left tbyJitfl CH.AR-
JTY, REPENT AND DO THE FIRST vVoRKS; or e!fe
I will remove thy Candleflick out ofhiJ· Place," Rev. ii.
1, 2, 4, 5· " Unto the Angel oftbe Churcb ofSmyrna
'Zurite, I KNOW THY \VoRKs," Rev. ii. 8. " Unto
the Angel of the Church in Pergamos write, I KNOW
THY vVORKS, REPHl"T," Rev. ii. 13, I6. " Unto
tbe Angel of tbe Church in 'Thyatira write, I KNOW
'THY WoRKS AND CHARITY ; AND THY I.AST
WoRKS to be more than the Ji!ft," Rev. ii. 18.
" Unto the Angel of the Churcb in Sardis write, I
KNOW THY vVORKS, that thou hqfl a Name that thou
fivejl, and art dead, I HAvi: NOT FOUND THY
\iVoRKs PERFECT BEFORE GoD, REPENT," Rev.
m..1, 2, 3· "And to the Angel of the Church in
Philadelphia 'i.urite, I KNOw THY \VoRKs," Rev.
iii, 7, 8. " Unto the Angel of tbe Cburch in Laodi-
cea uwitc, I KNOW THY WoRKs, REPENT," Rev.
iji. 14, 15, 19. " I heard a Voice from Hem;enfoy-
ing, write, blejfed arc the Dead, u;hich die in the Lord
from henceforth ; THEIR \\TORKS FOLLOW THEM,"
ReY. xiv. 1.3· " A Book -.t.:as opened, whicb is the
Book
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 175
Book of Life, and the Dead were judged, ALL Ac-
CORDING TO THEIR \\foRKS," Rev. X)\. 12, 13.
" Behold I come quickly, and my re-:mrd is with JI/Ie,
TO GIVE EVERY MAN ACCORDING TO HIS \\foRK,"
Rev. xxii. I 2. Thefe Paifages are in the New Tef-
tament, there are fl:.ill more in the Old, out of
which I will adduce only this, " Stand in the Gat~
uj the Lord, and proclaim there this 1-Ford; tbus faitb
Jeho'vah of Hqfts the God of !jl·ae!, amend your Ways
and your Works ; tn!ft ye not in lying Trords, f'zying,
the Temple of Jehovah, the Temple of 'Jehovah, the
Temple of'Jehorvah are theft. Will yeflea!, murder,
and commit Adullet)', and fic•ear by a Lie, and come
andfland before 11.1e in this Hozfe, whicb is called by
my Name, andf'zy, 1.ve are delivered, 1.vhile ye do thefe
Abominations ? Is this Haufe become a Den of Rob-
bers ? Behold, even I have fcen it, f'rith Jcbo~Jab,"
Jer. vii. I, 3, 4, 9, ro, I I.
Tlzat it is a Law of tlze Divine PTovi-
dence, t!zat Man be notJoned by ex-
ternal ]\!leans to think and will, and
Jo to believe and love the Things which
are o/ Religion; but tlzat Man lead,
and fometimes force lzinifelj to it.
I zg. THIS·Law of the Divine Providence fol-
lows from the two preceding, which are;
That Man iliould afr from Liqerty according to
Reafon,
176 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCEIUiit~d
Reafon, of which, n. 71 to 99 : And this from
himfelf, although trom the Lord, therefore as if
from himfelf, of which, n. 1oo to I 28 : And fora(:.
much as to be forced, is not to aft from Liberty
according to Reafon, and is not from himfelf, but
from what is not Liberty, and from another, there"'
fore this Law of the Divine Providence follows after
the two others : For every one knmvs, that no one
ean be forced to think that which he will not think;
and to will that which he thinks not to will, there·•
fore neither :o bdieve that which he doth not be-·
lieve, and not at all that which he will not believe;
and to love that which he doth not love, and not at
all that whi€h he will not love ; for the Spirit of
Man, or his Mind; is in full Liberty to think, will,·
believe, and love ; and it is in this Liberty by Vir~
tue of Influx ftom the fpiritual \Vorld, which doth
not force, for the Spirit or Mind of Man is in that
\Vorlcl ; but not by Virtue of Influx fFom the natub
ral \Vorld, which is not received, unlefs they aft as
one : A Man may be compelled to fay, that he
thinketh and willeth fuch and fuch Things, and
that he believeth and loveth fuch and fuch Things,
but if they are not, or do not, become Objects of
his Affection and thence of his Reafon, ftill he doth
not think, will, believe, and love them : A Man
may alfo be compelled to fpeak ip Fa\·our of Religion,
ancl to aft accorcli~1g to it, but he cannot be com-
pelled to think in Favour of it from any Faith, and
· to will it from any Love: Every one alfo, in King-
doms where Jufl:icc and Judgment are preferved, is
forced not to fpeak. againft Religion, and not to aft
again!l it, but fl:ill no one can be forced· to think
and
THE DIYINE PROVID!!NCE. I77
and will for it ; for it is in the Liberty of every one
to think with Hell, and to will for it, as alfo to think
for Heaven and will for it ; but Reafon teacheth
·what the one is and what the other is, and · wh?t
Portion awaiteth the one, and ·what the other, z,nd
the 'Will from Reafon hath its Option and Eleftion.
Hence it may appear, that what is External cannot
force what is Internal: Nevcrthelefs this f8metimes
is the Cafe, but that to do fo is hurtfui, will be
£hewn in the following Order. I. That no one is
reformed by Miracles and Signs, becaufe thEy force.
II. That no one is reformed by Vifions and by
Converfations with the Dead, becaufe they force.
Ill. That no one is reformed by Threats anJ Pun-
ifhments, becaufe they force. IV. That no one i.>
reformed in States not of Rationality and not of
Liberty. V. That it is not contrary to Rationality
and Liberty for a Man to force himfelf. VI. That
the external Man is to be reformed by the internal,
and not 'Vice vcrfa.
130. I. 'That no one is reformed by .t11irac!es and
Signs, becazfe they force. That Man hath an inter-
nal and an external Principle of Thought, and that
the LorJ f!oweth through the internal Principle of
Thought into its·external in Man, and fo teacheth
and leadeth him, was £hewn above : Alfo, that it is
from the Divine Pro,;idence of the Lord, that Man
aCl:cth from Liberty according to Reafon : Doth
thcfe Circumrrances of l\lan's Condition would per-
i!h, if Miracles \vere performed, and l\1an by them
were compelled to believe. That this is the Cafe,
may be rationally feen thus : It cannot be denied,
that Miracles induce Belief, anu firongly perfuade
Y that
I 78 ANGELIC vVISDO:>I CONCERXlNG
that that is true, which is faid and taught by him
who doeth Miracles ; and that this at firfl: fo occu..
pieth the external Principle of Man's Thought, that
it in a Manner binds and fafcinates it : But Man
l1ereby is deprived of his two Faculties, which are
called Rationality and Liberty, 'vhereby he is ena..
bled to aC\: from Free-will according to Reafon,
and then the Lord cannot flow in through his In-
ternal into the external Priaciple of his Thought,
but only leave Man to confirm from his Rationality
that·Thing, which by the Miracle was made an Ob-
jeCt of his Belief. The State of Man's Thought il'?
fuch, that from the internal Principle thereof he
fees a Thing in the externa,l Principle thereof as it
were in a Glafs, for, as was faid aboye, a l\lan can,
fee his Thought, which cannot be but from interior
Thought; and when he fe~s an Objea as in a Glafs, .
he can alfo turn it this \Nay and that, and fa!hion it,
until it appeareth. to himfelf beautiful ; \vhich Ob-
jeCt, if it be a Truth, may be compared unto a Vir-
gin or Youth beautiful and aliYe ; but if the Man
cannot turn that ObjeB: this \Nay and that, and
faihion it, but only believe it fl'?m Perfuafion indu-
ced by a Miracle, in this Cafe, if it be a Truth, it
may be compared to a· Virgin or Youth cut out of
Stone or Wood, in which there is no Life ; and it
may alfo be .compared to an Objefr, confl:antly be-
fore tne Sight, which alone is feen, and hideth all
that is on either Side, and behind it ; it may ·alfo
be compared to one continual Sound in the Ear,
which taketh away the Perception of Harmony
arifing from feveral Sounds : Such Blindnefs and
Deafnefs is induced in the human Mind by Mira~
des.
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 179
des. It is the fame with every Thing confirmed,
which is not feen from fome Rationality before it is
confirmed.
r3I. From thefe Confiderations it may appear,
that Faith induc~d by Miracles 'is not Faith, but
Pcrfuafion, for there is Nothing rational in it, frill
lefs any Thing fpiritual, it being merely external
without any int,ernal Principle : It is the fame with
all thatt a Ma~ docth from that pe:-fuafive Faith,
whether fie ac'kno\vledge God; or worfhip him at
Home or at Church, or do Good: Wheri a Mi.
racle only induceth Man to Acknowledgment of
God, to \Vodhip and Piety, he aCteth from the
natural Man, and not from the fpiritual, for a Mira-
cle infufeth Faith by an external \Vay, and not by
an internal Way, therefore from the \:Vorlu and
not from Heaven ; and the Lord doth not enter
jnto Man by any other \:Vay than by an internal
\Vay, which is by the ·word, and by DoCtrine and
Preachings derived from the V.ford ; and forafmuch
a:> Miracles lhut up this \Vay, therefore at this Day
no Miracles are wrought.
132. That fuch is the Nature and EfFeCt of
Miracles, may appear manife{lly from the Miracles
wrought before the Jewifu and lfraelitifh People ;
although this People faw fo many Miracles in the
-· Land of Egypt, and afterwards at the Red Sea, and
others in the Defart, and efpecially upon Mount
Sinai, when the Law was promulgated, neverthelefs
in the Space of a Month, when Mofes r:uried upon
that Mountain, they made thcmfelves a golden Calf, ·
aiTd acknowledged it for Jehovah who brought them
ot.:.t of the Land of Egypt, Exoc. xxxii. 4-, 5, 6 :
The
180 ANGELIC \VISDO M COKCERNING
The fame aifo may appear from the Miracles
wrought afterwards in the Land of Canaan, not-
withfl::mding which, the People fo often departed
from the W orfhip commanded : As alfo from the
Miracles which the Lord, when he was in the
\Vorld, wrought before them, and yet they cruci-
fied him. The Reafon why Miracles were wrought
among this People, was,.becaufe they were altogeth-
er external Men, and were introduced into the Land
of Canaan, merely that they might reprefent a
Church and its Internals by the Externals of Wor-
fuip ; and a wicked Man may be a Reprefentative
equally as well as a good Man ; the Externals of
W odhip among them were Rituals, all which figni-
ned T hings fpiritual and celeftial ; yea Aaron, al-
thouhh he made the golden Calf, and commanded
the \\7
or!hip of it, Exod. xxxii. z, 3, 4, 5, 35, nev-
erthelefs could reprefent the Lord and his Work of
Salvation : And forafmuch as they could not, by
the Internals of vVorfhip, be led to reprefent thefe
Things, therefore they were led, yea forced and
compelled to it, by Miracles. The Reafon why
they could not be brought to fuch Reprefentation
by the Internals of W orfhip, \Vas, becaufe they did
not acknov.
:ledge the Lord, although the whole
V!ord, which was among them, treateth of Him on..
ly; and he who doth not acknowledge the Lord,
cannot receive any internal W orfhip : But after
that the Lord manifefl:ed himfelf, and was received
~nd acknowledged as the Eternal God in the
Churches, Miracles ceafed.
133· Neverthelefs the Effctt of Miracles llpon
the Good is different from what it is upon the
\Vickcd;
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. ISI
"\Vicked : The Good do not de!ire Miracles, but
they believe the Miracles which are recorded in the
vVord ; and if they hear any Thing of a Miracle,
they attend no otherwife to it than as a light Argu-
ment which confirms their Faith, for they think
from the Word, confequently from the Lord, and
not from a Miracle. It is otherwife with the Wick-
ed ; they indeed may be compelled and forced into
Faith, yea into. W odhip and Piety, but only for a
ihort Time ; for their Evils are fhut in, the Concu-
pifcences of which, and the Delights thence derived,
continually aCl: againfi: the external Principle of their
Worfhip and Piety, and in Order that thefe Evils
may efcape from their Confinement and break out,
they think of the Miracle, and at length call ir a
Delu!ion or an Artifice, or an Operation of Nature,
and fo return to their Evils ; and he who returns
to his Evils after Worfhip, profanes the Truths and
Goods of Worfhip, and the Lot of Profaners after
Death is the worfi: of all : Thefe are they who are
meant by the Lord's vVords in Matt. xii. 43 . 44,
45; whofe lafi: State is worfe than their firft. More-
over, if Miracles were to be wrought before thofe,
who do not believe by Virtue of the Miracles re-
corded in the Word, they mufi: be continually per-
formed, and prefented conftantly to View with fuch
Perfons. From thefe Confiderations it may appear,
whence it is that Miracles are not performed at this
Day.
134· II. Tbat no one is reformed by Vjfions and by
conver:fing with the Dead, becaufe they force. Vifions
are of two Kinds, Divine and diabolical ; Divine
Vifions are e!fcaed. by Reprefcntatives in Heaven ;
and
182 ANGEliC \VISDOM CONCERNING
and diabolical Vifions are effeB:"ed by Magic in Hell :
There are alfo fantafl:ical Vifions: which are Illu•
!ions of an abfl:ratt Mind. Divine Vifions, which,
as was f:lld, are produced by Reprefentatives in
Heaven, are fuch as the Prophets had, who, v:hen
they \Yere in them~ \Vere not in the Body, but in
the Spirit ; for ViliOJ?S cannot appear to any Man
when his Body is awake ; wherefore "vhcn they ap-
peared to the Prophets, it is faid dfo that they were
then in the Spirit ; as appears from the following
P:1ii1ges ; E:;,::ekiel faith, " The Spirit took me up)
and brought me in Vrsro:N, IN THE S:P'rR.rr oF
Gon, into Chaldea, to them of the Captivity ; fo
the VIsiON that I had feen went up from rn~,'' xi.
1, 24 : Again he faith, " that the Spirit took him
up between the Earth and the Heaven, and brought
him in the VISION'S OF Gob to Jerufalem," viii. 3 :
In like Manner he was in a Vifion of God, or in
the Spirit, when he fa\v four Animals, w~ich were
Cherubim, Chap. i. and Chap. x : As alfb when he
faw the new Temple and the new Earth, and an
Angel meafuring them, Chap. xl. to xlviii. That he
was then in the Vifions of God, he declares, Chap.
xh 2, 26 : And that he was in the Spirit, Chap.
xliii. 5· In a iimilar State was Zechariah, when he
faw a Man riding among the Mynle Trees, Chap. i.
8: \Vhen he faw the four Horns and a Man with a
meafuring Line in his Hand, Chap. ii. 1, 3 : \:Vhen
he faw a Candleflick and two Olive Trees, Chap.
iv. 1 : \Vhen he faw a flying. Roll and an Ephah,
Chap. v. I, 6 : Vvhen he faw four Chariots coming·
out from between four Mountains, and Horfes,
Chap. vi. 1; and following Verfes. In a fimilar
State
THE DIVIN~ PROVIDE}l'CE. I Sj
0tate was Daniel, when he faw four Bearl:s a[cencl-
ing out of the Sea, Chap. vi. 1, and _following Ver~
fes : And when. he faw the Battle of the Ram anLl
the He Goat, Chap. viii. 1, and following Verfcs :
That he faw thefe Thinp;s in a Vifion of his Spirit,
is faid, Chap. vii. I, z, 7, I~· Chap. viii. :2. Chap.
x. I, 7, S : And that the Angel Gabriel \vas feen
of him in a Vifion, Chap._ i::. 2 I. John alfo was
in a Vifion of the Spirit, when he faw the Things
which he has clefcribed in the Revelation j as when
he faw the feven Candlell:icks and the Son of Man
in the Mic.lfl: of them, Ch::1p. i. 12 to 16. \Vhen
he faw a Throne in Heaven, and one fitting on the
Throne, and four Animals which were Cherubim,·
round about it, Chap. iv. ·when he faw the Book
of Life taken by the Lamb, Chap. v. \Vhen he
faw Horfes coming forth out of the Book, Chap. vi.
\Vhen he (aw feven Angels with Trumpets, Chap.
vm. \Nhen he faw the bottomlefs Pit opened, and
Locufh coming forth out of it, Chap. ix. \Vhen
he faw the Dragon and his \Var with Michael,
Chap. xii. \Vhen he faw the two Beall:s, one
coming out of the Sea, and the other from the
Earth, Chap. xiii. ·when he faw the Vloman fit-
ting upon the fcarlet Beall:, Chap. xvii. and Baby-
lon defl:royed, Chap. xviii. When he faw the
white Horfe, and Him that fat thereon, Chap. xvii;,
When he faw the New H~aYen an.d the New Earth,
and the Hply Jerufalem coming down out of Ilea\·-
en, Chap. ::-:xi. And when he faw the Rive!· of the
Water of l.ife, Ch:lp. xxii. That he faw theie
Things in a Vifion of the Spirit, is faid, Chap. i.
u. Chap. jv. ::. Chap.\'. !. ,Chap. vi. 1. Chap.
XXI,
184 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
xxi. r z. Such were the Vifions, which appeared
out of Heaven, before the Sight of their Spirit, and
not before the Sight of their Body. Such Vifions
dQ not exifl: at this Day, for if they did exifr, they
would not be underfl:ood, becaufe they are effeB:ed
by Heprefentatives, the Particulars of which fignify
internal Things of the Church, and Arcana of Heav-
en : That Vifions were alfo to ceafe when the Lord
came into the.·world, is foretold by Daniel, Chap.
xi. 24. , But diabolical Vi)ions fometimes have exifl:-
ed, being induced by Enthufiafl:ic Spirits, and Vifion-
aries, v;·ho from the Delirium in which they were,
called themfelves the Holy Ghofl:. But thofe Spi-
rits are now collcB:ed by rhe Lord, and cafr into a
Hell feparatc from the Hells of others. Hence it is
evident, that no one can be reformed by any oth-
er Vifions than what are recorded in the Word.
There are alfo fantqflical V!Jions, but thefe are mere
lllufions of an abfl:raB: Mind.
I 3'4+· That neither can any one be reformed by
fpcaking with the Dead, is evident from the Lord's
\Vords concerning the rich Man in Hell, and Laz-
arus in the Bofom of Abraham ; for the rich Man
faid, "Ipray tbee, Father Abraham, that tbou woul4ft
.fend La-za,rus to my Father's Hoife ; for I haw fi•ve
Brethren ; that he may tc.flify unto them, ldf they a!fo
come into this Place if Torment : Abraham faid ur.ta
bim, They .b:z'i.!e i\1ofts and tbe Prophets, let them bear
them : But hefaid, Nay, Fatbcr Abraham, but if on~
went unto them from the Dead, they will repent : And
hefaid un:o him, Ifthey hear not Mofes and the Proph-
ets, neither will they be peifuaded though one roft
from !he Deed," Luke xvi. 27 to 3I. Speaking
with
THE DIVINE PRC'/IDENCE. I8S
with the Dead would have the fame Efl~:2 as Mira-
cles, of which above ; viz: that a Man 'Would be
perfuaded and compelled to \Vorfhip for a ihort
Time; but foratinuch as this deprives 1\Ian of Ra-
tionality, and at the fame Time !huts in Evils, as
was faid above, when this Charm or internal Re-
!lraint is J.iffolved:, the included Evils break out,
with Blafphemy and Profanation : But this only
happem when Spirits induce forrie dogmatic Princi-
ple of Religion, which is never done by any good
Spirit, frill lefs by an Angel of i-Ieaven.
135· Neverthelefs, to ipeak with Spirits, yet rare-
ly with Angels of Heaven, is given, and hath been
given for r.1any Ages.. back ; but when it is given,
they fpeak with Man in his Mother Tongue, but
only a few \Vords : They, howeve"r, who fpeak by
Penniffion of the Lord, never fay any Thing which
takes away the Freedmn of Reafon, nor do they
teach ; for the Lord only teacheth Man, bt1t medi- _
ately through the \Vord in Illumination, of which
we !hall fpeak prefently : TT1at this is the Cc;.fe, hath
been given to know from my own Experience ; I
have difcourfed with Spirits and with Angei3 now
for fevernl Years, nor durft any Spirit, neither
\Vould any Angel, fuy any Thing to me, much lefs
infirua me, about any Thing in the \Vor'd, or any
Doarinal deri,·ed from the \Vord, but the Lord
only taught me, who was revealed to me, and after·
wards continually did anJ. does appear before my
Eyes as the Sun in which he is, as he appeareth to
the Angels, and illuminated me.
I 3G. III. Tbat 120 one is reformed by Threats aiJd
Pun!llmL'Ilfj, becaufe tbe_vforce. It is a known Thing,
Z that
I 86 ANGELIC \VISDOl'd CONCERNING
that the External qnnot force the Internal, but
that the Internal can force the External : It is alfo
known, that the Intern~! is fo averfe to Force from
the External, that it turneth itfelf away : And it is
alfo known, that external Delights allure the Inter-
nal to Con!ent and to Love : It may alfo be known,
that there exills internal Confhaint and internal
Liberty. But all thefe Points, although they are
know.n, are neverthelefs to be illufhated ; for there
are many Things, which) when they are heard, are
immediately perceived to be fo, becaufe they are
Tmths,' and thence they are affirmed, but if they
ate not at the fame Time confirmed by Reafons,
they may be invalidated by Arguments from Falla"
cies, and at length denied ; wherefore the Things,
which are now mentioned as known, are to be re-
aifumed and rationally co:1firmed. FIRST, Tbat the
External cannotforce the Internal, but tbat the Inter-
nal can force the External : Who can be forced to
believe and to love ? It is not poffible for any one
to be forced to believe, any more than to think that
a Thing is fo) when he doth not think fo ; and it is
not pofiible for any one to be forced to love, any
more than to \vill that which he doth not will, for
Belief is of the Thought, and Love is of the \Viii :
But the Intern;:-J by the External may be forced not
to fpeak j[l againfl: the Laws of the Kingdom, the
Mor...
1ls of Life, and the Sancrities of the Church ;
the Internal may be force"d to this by Threats and
Punifhments, and alfo is forced and ought to be
forced; but this Internal is not an Internal properly
human, but it is an Internal which Man hath in
common with Beafis, which alfo can be forced ;
the
TH:t!: DIVINE PROVIDENCE. I 87
the human Internal refides above this animal Inter-
nal : The human Internal is here meant,. which
cannot be forced. SECONDLY, Tbat the Internal is
.fo av.:rft to Force frcm the External, that it turJletb
itfl!f away ; the Reafon is, becaufe the Internal
willeth to be at Liberty, and loves Liberty; for Lib-
erty is of the Love or of the Life of Man, as was
fhewn above ; wherefore when Liberty perceiveth
itfelf to be forced, it withdraws itfelf as it were.
withi.n itfelf, and averteth itfelf, and regardeth
Force as its Enemy ; for the Love, which maketh
the Life of Man, is exafperated, a~d caufeth lvbn
to think, that thus he is not his o\vn, cortfequently
that he doth not live to himfelf. The Reafon whv
J
the Internal of Man is fuch, is grounded in the.
Law of the Divine Providence of the Lord, that
I\'Ian may aCt from Liberty according to Reafon.
Hence it is evident, that to force Men to Didne
\Vor£hip by Threats and Punifhments, is hurtful.
But there are fame who fuffer themfelvcs to be for-
ced to Religion, and there are fome who do not ;
they who fuffer themfelves to be forced to Religion,
are many of the Papifrs, bur this is the Cafe with
thofe, in whom there is Nothing internal in \Vor-
fhip, but all is external : They who do not fuffer
themfelves to be forced, are many of the Englifh
Nation, and hence it comes to pafs that there is an
Internal in their \Vor!hip, and what is in the Exter-
nal is from the Internal : The Interiors of thefe
latter, as to Religion, appear in fpiritual Light like
white Clouds ; but the Interiors of the former, as
to Religion, appear in the Light of Heaven like
dark Clouds: Both thefe Appearances are given to
be
188 ANGELIC .WISDOM CONCERNIN~·
be feen in the fpiritual \Vorld, and whoever will
may fee them, when he enters that World after
Death : Moreover, confhained \Vorfhip fhuts in
~viis, 'vhich in fuch Cafe lie hid like Fire in Wood
und~r the Afhes, which continually kindletl1 and ·
pilateth itfelf, untH it breaketh out into a Flame ;
whereas \Vorfhip, which is not confl:rained, hut
fpontaneous, doth not fhut in Evils ; wherefore
they are like Fires which immediately burn out and
1
are difperfed. From thefe (:onfiderations it is evi-
dent, that the Inteq1al hath fuch a Repugnance to
ReHt:aint, that it averteth itfclf. The Reafon "\t'hy
the Internal can force the External, is, pecaufc the
Internal is like a Mafl:er, and the External is like a
Servant. THIRDL~·, Tbat Extenzal Delights allure
rhe Internal to C01!fent, and a!fo to Lo·ue :. Delights
' are of two Kinds, Pelights of the Undelflanding
and Delights of th~ Will, the Delights of the Un-
derfi:anding are alfo Delights of Wifdom, and the
Delights of the \Viii are alfo Delights of Love, for
Wifdom is of the Underfi:anding, and Love is of
the Will : Now forafmuch as the Delights of the
Body and of.its $enfes, which are ~xternal Delights,
~1a as one with internal Delights, which are of the
Underfl:anding and of the Will, it follows, that as
the Internal refufeth Confi:raint from the External,
infomuch that it turneth itfelf away, fo the Internal
gratefully beholds Delight in the External, info-
inuch that it turneth itfelf to it ; thus is produced
Confent ~n !he Part of the Underfi:anding, and
Love on the Part of the 'Will. All Infants in the
fpiritual World are introduced into a!lgelic 1;yifdom,
~·nd by it into celefi:ial Love, by Delight~ and Pleaf;
· · . antneffe:>
--------- -----------~
•
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. I 89
antneifcs from the Lord, firfl: by bcauti~ul ObjeB:s
in Houfes, and by pleafant Things in Gardens, then
by Reprefentatives of Things fpiritual, which affect
the Interiors of their Minds with Pleafure, and la!l-
ly by Truths of \Vifdom, and fo by Goods of Love;
thus continually by Delights in tpeir Order, firfl: qy
the Delights of Love of the Undedl:anding and its
\Vifdom, and lafi:ly by the Delights of the Love of
the Will, which becomes thdr Life's Love, under
which the other Things, which entered by Delights,
are kept fubordi11:1te. This is done, becaufe all of
the Under!landing and ·\Vill is to be formed by the
External, before it is formed by tlie Internal ; for all
of the Underfl:anding and \Viii is formed firfl: by the
Things which enter through the Scnfcs of the Body,
~fpecially through the Sight and Hearing ; but
when the firfl: Underfl:anding and the firfl: Will are
formed, then the Internal of Thought regards them
as the External of its Thought, and either conjoin-
eth itfelf \vith them, or feparates itfelf from them ;
it conjoineth itfelf with them if they are delightful,
and feparates itfelf from them if they are not. But
it is \vell to be attended to, that the Internal of the
Underfbnding doth not join itfelf with the Internal
of the \Vill, but that the Internal of the \Vill join-
eth itfelf with the Internal of the Underf'randing,
and caufeth a reciprocal ConjunCl:ion ; but this is
done by the Internal of the \Viii, and riot at all by
the Internal of the Underfl:anding. Hence it is,
that Man cannot be reformed by Faith aJone, but
by the LoYe of the \Vill which fonneth Faith to
itfdf. FouRTHLY, That there o4ls internal Con-
jiraint m?d internal Libtrty : 1nternal Confiraint ex-
ifl.s
190 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
if'l:s with thofe, who are in external \Vorfhip alone
and in no internal ; for their Internal is to think
and will that, to which their External is forced ;
thefe arc they who are in the v.,ror!hip of Men liv-
ing and dead, and thence in the W or!hip of Idols,
and in the Faith of Miracles ; in thefe there doth
not exill any Internal, but what at the fame Time
is external. But with thofe who are ih the Internal
of \\ror!hip, there is given internal Conftraint, one
Kind from Fear, and another from Love; internal
Confl:raint from Fear, is in thofe, who are in ·wor-
fhip from the Fear of infernal Torment and its Fire;
but this Internal is not the Internal of Thought,
which was before treated of, b)lt the External of
Thought, which is here called Internal becaufe it is
of Thought; the Internal of Thought, which was
before treated of, cannot be forced or confl:rained '
by any Fear ; but it can be forced by Love and by
the Fear of lofing it ; the Fear of God in a genuine
Senfe is Nothing elfe; to be forced by Love and by
the Fear of lofing it, is to force one's Self ; that to.
force one's Self is not againft Liberty and ·Rational~
ity, will be fecn below.
1 37. Hence it may appear, what conllrained
W orfhip is, and what unconllrained W ori11ip is ;
confrrained \Vor!hip is corporeal, inanimate, ob.
fcure, and gloomy Worfhip; corporeal, becaufe it
is of the Body, and not of the 1\·Iind; inanimate, be-
caufe there is no Life in it; obfcure, becaufe there is
no Underllanding in it; and gloomy, becaufe there
is no Delight of Heaven in it. But unconfl:rained
Worfhip, when it is genuine, is fpiritual, living,
lucid, and joyful \Vodhip ; fpiritual, becaufe there
lS
TnE DxvtN.t PROVIDENCE. 191
is Spirit from the Lord in it ; living, becaufe there
is Life from the Lord in it ; lucid, becaufe there is
\Vifdom from the Lord in it ; and joyful, becaufe
there is Heaven from the Lord in it.
138. IV. That no one is reformed in States ofNon-
Rationality and ofNon-Liberty : It \Yas !Le•vn above,
that Nothing is appropriated to Man, but what he
doeth from Liberty according to Rcafon ; the Rea-
fan is, becaufe Liberty is of the Will, ad Reafon is
· of the Underfi.anding, and when l\hn aCts from
Liberty according to Reafon, then he aCts from his
'Will through his Underfl:anding, aD.d what is done
in ConjunCtion of both, that is appropriated. Now
forafmuch as the Lord willerh, that Man fhould be
reformed and regenerated, that he may have eter-
nal Life or the Life of Heaven, and no one can be
reformed and regenerated, unlefs Good be appro-
priated to his \Nill that it may be as it were his
own, and Truth to his Under!b.nuing that it may
alfo be as it were his own ; and forafalUch as Noth-
ing can be appropriated to any one, but what is from
the Liberty of his 'Will ac~ording to the Reafon of
his Underfl:anding-, it follows, that no one is reform-
ed in States of Non-Liberty and of Non-Rationality.
States of Non-Liberty and Non-Rarionality are fev-
eral ; but in general they m:1y be referred to thefe,
States of Fear of1\'Iisfortzme, a d!ftafed State of J,1im!1
bodily Sicknefs, Ignorance, and B!indnefs ofthe Under-
flanding ; but of each State Something fhall be faid
in particular.
139· The Reafon why no one i3 ref.:1rmcd in A
STATE OF FEAR, is, becaufe Fear taketh away Free-
\Vill and Reafon, or Liberty and Rationality; for
Love
!92 ANGEL!C \VIS!)OM CO~CER.!';'ING
Love openeth the Interiors of the Mind, but Feat
fhuts them, and when they are fhut, Man thinks
little, and only what offers itfelf to the Mind and
Senfes: Such iS' the Efrea of -all Fears which invada
the Mimi. That man hath an internal Principle of
Thought, and an external Principle of Though~,
was !hewn above : Fear never can invade the inter..
nar Principle of Thought, this Principle being al~
ways in Freeuom, becaufe it is in its Life's Love ;
but it can invade the external Principle of Thought;
and when it invades this Principle, the internal Prin"'
ciple of Thought is ihut, and this being ihut, Man
can no longer aCt from Liberty according to his
Reafon; therefore cannot be reformed. The Fear
which inndes the external Principle cf Thought;
and clofeth the internal, is principally the Fear of
the Lofs of Honour or of Intereft; but Fear for civ-
il Punifhments, and for external ecclefiafl:ical Pun-
ifhments, doth not clofe it, becaufc thefe Laws ouly
prefcrit>e Punilhments fer thofe who fpeak and a[!;
againft the civil Infiitutions of a Kingdom and the
fpiritual ones of the Church, but not for thofc who
think ag:ainfl them. The Fear of infernal Punifh.
ment indeed invades the external Principle of
Thought, but only for fome Moments, or Hours, or
Days, but afterwards this is reftorcd to its Liberty
from the internal Principle of Thought, which is
properly ofMan'8 Spirit and Life's Love, and is call-
ed the Thought of the Heart. But Fear for the
Lofs of Honour and Interdt invades the external
Principle of the Tho.ught of Man, and when it in.
vad~s, it 'fhuts the internal Principle of Thought
above againfl the Influx from Heaven, and caufcth
that.
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 193
that a Man cannot be rcfor~ed : The ReaCon is, be-
caufe the Life's Lm'e of every M::m is by Birth the
Love of Self and of the WorlJ, and the Love ofSelf
n1aketh one \vith the Love o'f Honour, and the Lm e
of the \Vorld maketh one \Vith the Love of lntercll: ;
' wherefore when a Man is in Poifeffion of Honour or
of Interefl:, out of Fear for the Lofs of them, he con-
firms in himfelf Means, whis:h arc fubfervient to
Honour and Interell:, and \vhich are as well of a
civil as an ecclefiafl:ical Nature, both refpeEting Gov--
ernment; in like Manner he aeletb, who is not yet
in Pofieffion of Honour or Lucre, if he afpires to
them, but out of Fear for the Lofs of Reputation for
the Sake of them. It is faid that this Fear invades
the external Principle of Thought, and fhuts the in-
ternal above againfi Influx from Heaven; this latter
Principle is faid to be ihut or clofed, when it entirely
aB:s as one with the External, for then it is not in
itfelf, but in the External. But forafmuch as the
LO\·es of Self and of the \Vorld are infemal Loves,
and the Sources of all Evils, it is evident of what Na-
ture the internal Principle of Thought is, in itfelf,
with thofe in whom thefe Loves reign or are the
~ c
Life's Loves, namely, that it is full of Concupifcences
of E\'ils of all Kinds. This they do not know, who,
from the Fear, of the Lofs of Digr1ity and Opulence,
are in a powerful PerJuafion of the Religion in
which they are principled, efpecially in a Religion
which invokes, that they !hould be wor01ipped as
Deities, and at the fame Time as Plutos in Ht.:ll;
thefe can burn as it were with Zeal for the Salvation
of Souls, and this neverthelcfs from infernal Fire.
\Vhereas this Fear efpecially taketh away Rational~
A A ity
194 ANGELIC \V!SDOM CONCERNING
ity itfelf, and Liberty itfelf, which are of celefi:ial
Origin, it is evident that it is an Obfiacle to Man'•
being reformed.
qo. The Reafon why no one is reformed in A
Sr.\TE OF MisFoRTUNE, if he then only thinketh
of God and imploreth Afiifl:ance, is, becaufe it is a
State of Confrraint; wherefore when he cometh in-
to a State of Liberty, he returneth into l:is former
State, in which he had thought little if any Thing of
God: Not fo they, who feared God before, in a
State of Liberty. By fearing God is meant to fear
to offend him, and to offend him is to fin ; and this
is not of Fear, but of Love: Who that lo~·eth any
one, doth not fear to do him Harm, and the more
he loveth him, the more he feareth it? \:Vithout this
Fear, Love is lifelefs and fuperficial, appertaining to
the Thought only, and not to the Will. By States
of Misfortune are meant States of Defperation from
Dangers, as in Battles, Duels, Shipwrecks, Falls,
Fires, imminent or unexpeB:ed Lofs of ·wealth, alfo
of Office and thence of Honour, and other fuch-like
Cafes : In thefe only to think of God, is not from
God, but from Self; for then the Mind is as it were
imprifoned in the Hody, therefore not in Liberty,
and thence neither in Rationality, without which
Reformation is not given.
I•P· The Reafon why no one is reformed in A
DISORDERED STATE oF MrNo, is, becaufe Difeafe
of the 1\'lind (.Jfgritudo Animi) taketh away Ration-
ality;and thereby the Liberty of aB:ing according to
Reafon; for a difordered or fick Mind is not found,
and the. found Mind is rational, and not the fick
Mind. Such Diforders of the Mind are Melancho.
lies,
THE DiVINE PROVIDENCE. 195
lies, fpurious and falfe Confciences, Phantafies of va·
rious Kinds, Grief of Mind from Misfortunes, Anx-
ieties and 1\.ngui{h of Mind from a Difeafe of the
Body, which are fornetimcs confrdered as Tempta-
tions, but they are not, becaufe genuine Temptations
have for their Object fpiritual Things, and in thefc
the Mind is wife, but the former have for their Ob-
jeCt natural Things, and in thcfe the Mind 1s
infane.
142. The Reafon why no one is reformed· in A
STATE OF BoDILY DtsEASE, is, becaufe Reafon
then i~ not in a free State, for the State of the Mind
depends upon the State of the Body; when the BoJy
is fick, the l\lind alfo is fick, if not otherwifc, yet
by being removed from the ·world, for a Mind re-
moved from the vVorld thinks indeed of God, but
not from God, for it is not ill the Liberty of Reafon ;
l\1an hath Freedom of Reafon from this Circum-
fiance, that he is in the Midfi: between Heaven and
the \Vorld, and that he can think from Heaven and
from the \Vorld, alfo from Heaven concerning the
\Vorld, and from the World concerning He:lVen :
\Vhen therefore a Man is in a Difcafe, and thinketh
of Death, and of the State of his Soul after Death,
then he is not in the \Vorld, and is abfi:rafted in
Spirit, in which State alone no one can be reformed ;
but he may hereby be confirmed, if he was reformed
before he fell into the Difeafe. It is the fame with
thofe who renounce the \Vorld and all Bufinefs in
it, and give themfelves up folely to Thoughts con-
cerning God, Heaven, and Salvation ; but of this
more elfewhere. \Vherefore the fame, if they arc
not reformed before the Difeafe, after_it, if they
die,
~96 ~-\NGELIC \VrsDOM CONCERNING
die, become furh as th~y were hefore the Difeafe;
l1ence it is a va:n Thing to think, that any can re-
pent, or rccci\'e any Faith under Difeafes, for there
is Nothing of Action in that Repentance, and Noth-
ing of Charity ·in that Faith, wherefore all is of the
I\Iouth, and Nothing of the Heart in both.
143· The Reafon why no one is reformed in A
STATE oF lcNORANCE, is, becaufe all Reformation
is effeEted by Truths, and by a Life according to
them, wherefore they who do not know Truths, can.
not be reformed ; but if they defire Truths from
the Affection thereof, they are reformed in the fpi-
ritual V\rorld after Death.
144· That neither can any be reformed in A
STATE OF BLINDNESS OF THE UNDERSTANDING:
Thefe alfo do not know Truths, confequently nei:.
ther do they know Life,for Underfl:anding mufl: teach
them, and the \Vill muft do them, and when the
Will deeth what the Underftanding teacheth, then
it hath Life according- to Truths ; but when the
Underilancling is blinded, the \Vill alfo is clofed,
~nd doth not do from Lberty according to Reafon
any Thing but the Evil confirmed in the Under..
fianding, which is Falfe. Religion alfo, as well as
Ignorance, blindeth the Underfl:anding, when it
teacheth a blind Faith : So doth Doarine of what
is fa!fe ; for as Truths open the Underfl:anding, fo
falfe Principles fhut it ; they fhut it above, but open
it below, and the UnderflFtnding, open only below,
·cannot fee Truths, but oply conprm whatfoevcr it
wiHeth, efpe.c!ally what is falfe, The Underfl:and,.
ing is ali? blinded by the Lufl:s of Evil ; fo long as
the VJjll is in fuch Lufl:s, it forceth the Underfland..
. . mg
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 197
ing to confirm them ; and as far as the Lufl:s of
Evil are confirmed, fo far the \Vill cannot be in Af-
feaions of Good, and from them fee Truths, and fo
be reformed. As for Example; when a Man is in
the Lufl: of Adultery, his \Vill, which is in the.De-
light of his Love, forceth his Underfiandii1g to con-
firm it, by faying, \Vhat is Adultery ? Is there any
Barm in it ? Is there not the fame Harm in the
Connexion between Hufband and \Vifj:: ? Cannot
Children equally be born from Adultery ? Caunot
a \Voman admit more than one without any Harm ?
What hath any fpiritual Con{ideration to do in this
Cafe ? Thus doth the Underfbnding, \vhich then
is the Harlot of the \Vill; think, and fo fiupid is it
made by its \iVhoredom with the Will, that it can-
not fee that conjugal Love is fpiritual celefiial Lo\'e
itfelf, which is an Image qf the Love of the Lord
and of the Church, from which alfo it is derived,
ang thus that in itfelf it is holy, being eifential
Chafiity, Purity, and Innocence; ;;nd that it ma-
keth Men Loves in Form,· for ·m'arried Pairs can
love each other mutually from their inmo!t Souls,
and fo form themfelves into Loves; and that :Adul-
tery defrroyeth this Form, and with it the Image·of
the Lord ; and what is horrible, that the Adulterer
mixeth his Life with the Life of the Huiband in
his Wife, for in the Seed is the Life of Man : And
forafmuch as tnis is profane, therefore Hell is call-
ed Adultery, and on the contrary Heaven is called
Marriage : The. Love .·of Adultery alfo communi-
cates \Vith the 1owefl:: Hell,'but Love truly conjugal .
\Vith the inmofl::•Heaven ; the Members ·of.Genera-
tion of both Sexes alfo cortefnond to) Spcieties o'f
...
the
!98 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
the inmo!l: Heaven. Thefe Particulars are adduced,
that it may be known, how much the Underfiand-
ing is blinded when the "Will is in the Lu!l: of Evil ;
and that in a State of Blindnefs of the Under!l:and-
ing no one can be reformed.
145· V. That it is not contrary to Rationality and
Liberty for a ~klan to force hin!fe!J. It was fuewn.
above, that Man hath an internal Principle of
Thought; antl an external Principle of Thought,
and that they are difiinB: as Prior and Pofierior, or
as Superior and Inferior ; and forafmuch as they
are fa difiinct, it was fhewn that they can act fepa-
rately, and can act in Conjunfcion ; they act fepa-
rately, when a Man fpeaketh and actcth from the.
external Principle of his Thought otherwife than
he interiorly thinketh and willeth ; and they act in
Conjunction, when he fpeaketh and doeth what he
interiorly thinketh and willeth; the latter Cafe is
comn~on with the fincere, but the former with the
infincere. Now forafmuch as the internal and the
external Principles of the Mind are fa dilliner, the
Internal can alfo fight with the External, and by
Combat compel him to confent : Combat exifis,
when Man thinketh Evils to be Sins, and therefore
willetl1 to defift from them, for when he defifl:eth,
the Door is opened, which being opened, the Con-
cupifcences ofEvil,,which befieged the internal Prin-
ciple of Thought, are.cafl: out by the Lord, and in
Place thereof are implanted AffeCtions of Good ;
and this in th~ internal Princir.le of Thought:
..But whereas the Delights of the .Concupifcences
of Evil, which befiege the external Principle cf
Thought, · cannot at the fame Time be caH: out,
' - therefore
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 199
therefore a Combat exifls between the internal and
the external Principle of Thought ; the Internal
willeth to caft out thofe Delights, becaufe they are
Delights of Evil, and do not accord with the Affec~
tions of Good, in which the Internal now is, and in
Place of the. Delights of Evil to introduce Delights
of Good, which accord; the Delights of Good are
what are called Goods of Charity. From this Con-
trariety c:rifeth a Combat, which, if it becometh
grievous, is called Temptation. Now forafmuch
as Man is Man by Virtue of the internal Principle
of his Thought, this being the Spirit of Man itfelf,
it is evident that Man forceth himfelf, when he
forceth the external Principle of his Thought to ,
confent to or to receive the Delights of his Affec-
tions, which are Goods of Charity. That this is
not contrary to Rationality and Liberty, but ·con.
formable to them, is evident, for Rationality cauf~ •
eth the above Combat, and Liberty executes it ;
Liberty itfelf alfo with Rationality refidcs in the in.
ternal Man, and from the Internal in the External.
\Vhen therefore the Internal conquereth, which is
the Cafe when the Internal hath reduced the.Exter-:
nal to Confent and Obedience, then Liberty itfelf
and Rationality itfelf are given l\lan by the Lord ;
for then Man is delivered by the Lord from infernal
Liberty, which in itfelf is Servitude, and placed in
celdl:ial Liberty, which in itfelf is real Liberty, and
it is given him to affociate with Angels. That they
:ue •
Sernnts who are in Sins, and that the Lord
rnaketh them free, who receive Truth from Him
through the \Vord, he himfelf tea~heth in John,
Chap. vili.. 31 to 36.
J46. Le~
200 ANGELIC ·\VISDOM CONCERNING
!46. Let us take an Example by Way of Illuf
..
tration : Suppofe a Man, who bad perceived De·
light in Frauds and 'clandefl:ine Thefts, to fee and
acknowledge thq.t they are Sins, a11d therefore to
will to deflfl: from them ; when he defifl:eth, then
arifes a Combat of the internal Man with the exter:
nal ; the internal Man is -i:Y the AffeB:ion of Sincer..
ity, but the external as~yet in the Delight of De·
fraudation ; which .Delight, becaufe it is altogether
oppotlte to the Delight of Sincerity, doth not recede,
unlefs it be compelled, ·· neither can it be compelled
without a Combat; ·and 'then when he overcomes,
the :external Man cometh into the Delight of the
Love of Sincerity, which is Charity ; afterwards
fucceilively the Delight of Defraudation becometh__
undtlightful to him.· It is fimilar with other Sins,
as with Adulteries and Fo'rnications, .Revenges and
Hatreds, ~lafphemies and Lies.· . But the mofr dif..
ficult Combat of all is with the Love of Dominion
from the Love of Self; he who fubdueth this, eafily
fubdueth other evil Loves, becaufe it is the Head of
them.
147. We fhall alfo briefly fhew, how the Lord
cafteth out the Concupiicences of Evil, which be-
fiege the internal .Man from his· Bi1·th, and in Place
of them planteth ·Affecriom of Good, when Man as
from himfclf removet11 EYils as Sins : It was {hewn
above, that. Man haih a natural Mind, a fpiritu-
:11 Mind, and a cdefrial Mind ; and that Man is in
the natural Mind only, as long as he is in the Con-
cti.pifcences of Evil and their Delights, and that fo
long the fpiritual I\'Iind is fhut ; but as foon ;:ts Man
after Self-examination acknowlec3geth Evils as Sins
againft
l"HE DIVINE PROVIDENC!::. 201
ngainfl: God, becaufe they are contrary to the Di~
vine La~s, and therefore willeth to defifl: from.
them, then the Lord oprncth the f~iritual Mind, and
entereth into the natural by the Aft~crions of Truth
and Goodnefs, and entaeth into the rational, and
from it difpofeth in Order the Things.
, which are
contrary to Order below in the natmal : This
it is which appeareth to Mail as a Corr.bat, and in
thofe who bav·e indulged much in the Dciights of
Evil, as Temptation; for it gives Paiu to the Mind,
when the Order of its T houghts is imertcd. Now
forafmuch as the Combat i:1 againfl: the Things
which are in l\b.n himfelf, and whiLh 1\hn feels :1s
his own~ and no one can fight againfi l:imidf eX•
C:ept from what is interior in himfelf, <md except
from Liberty there~ it follows, that the internal Man
then fighteth againft the external, aud that he do-
eth it from Liberty, and that hr. forceth the .Exit>r-
nal to Obedience ; this therefore is to force birnfelf:
That this is not contrary to Liberty and Rationality,
but according to them, is evident.
148. Moreover every Man willeth to be free,
and not to remove Liberty but Servitude fi·om him"
felf; every Boy, who is under a Mafl:er, wil!eth to be
his own !VIafl:er, and fo to be free; the fame is true
of every 1\lan-Servant under his Mafl:er, and of eve"
ry 1\Iaid-Servant under her Mifl:refs ; every Virgin
alfo willeth to depart out of her Father's Houfe and
marry, that fhe may act freely in her own Houfe;
every Youth who willeth to work, or traffic, or ex"
ercife foine Office, while qe is in Servitude under
others, willeth to be emancipated, that he may be
his own Mafl:er: All they, who ferve fpontancoufly
B B - for
'202 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
for the Sake of Liberty, force themfelves, and in
forcing themftlves they ::£c from Liberty according
to Reafon, but from intericir Liberty, from which
exterior Liberty is regarded as a Servant. Thefe
Confidcratior~s are adduced, in Order to confirm
the Pofition, that for a Man to force himfelf is not
contrary to Rationality and Liberty.
149· One .Reafon why Man doth not in like
1\'lanner defire to come out of fpiritual Servitud~
into fpiritual Liberty, is, that he doth not know
what fpiritual Servitude is, and what fpiritual Lib-
erty is ; he hath not the Truths which teach it, and
without Truths it is thought that fpiritual Servitude
is Liberty, and fpiritual Liberty Servitude. Anoth-
er Reafon is, becaufe the Religion of the ChriUian
\Vorld hath !hut up the Underfl:anding, and Soli-
fidianifm (the DoB:rine of Faith alone) hath fealed
it, fer thr::y have both placed about themfelves, like
an Iron \Vall, this Tenet, that Theological Things
tranfccnd, and that ti~ere:ore they are not to be ,ap-
proacheJ from any Rationality, and that they arc
for the Blind and not for thofe who fee ; by this
the Truth~ have been hid, which would teach what
fpiritual Liberty is. A third Reafon is, becaufe
few cxamir1e themfelves, and fee their Sins, and he
who doth not fee them, and deflfl from them, is in
the Liberty of them, w1
1ich is infernal Liberty, in
itfelf Servitude, and frorn this to fee celefl:ial Liber-
ty, which is Liberty itfelf, is like feeing Light from
Darkncfs, anJ fecirw under a black Cloud that
'"'
which is above it from the Sun. Hence it is, that
it is not known what celefl:ial Liberty is, and that
\he Difference between this and infernal Liberty is
like
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 203
~ke the Difference between what is alive and what
is dead.
150. VI. 'That the external llfan is to be reformed
by the internal, and not vice verfa. By the interni!.l
and the external l\'Ian the fame is meant a~ by the
internal and the external Principle of Thought,
which have often been treated of before : The
Reafon why the external is reformed by the inter-
nal, is, becaufe the internal floweth into the exter-
nal, and not vice ·vcrfa: That there is a fpiritual
Influx into natural, and not r
..;icc <t·erj
a, is known in
the learned \VCorld : And that the internal Man is
firfl to be purified and renewed~ and thereby the
external, is known in the Church ; the Reafon
why it is known, is, becaufe the Lord and Reafon
ditl:ate it; the Lord teacheth it in thefc vVords, "TYo
unto you, Hypocrites, for ye make deem the Ou!fidc of
the Cup and of the Platter, but 'l;_·ithin they arefull
of Extortion .and E:wfs: 'Thou blind Pbar!fee, clcai7ft
.fidt the lr!fide ofthe Cup and Platter, that the Outjide
ofthem may be clean a!fo," Matt. xxiii. 2 5, ~6 : That
Reafon ditl:ates it, is fl1ewn abundantly in the Trea-
tife on T HE D IVINE LovE MW T H E DrviNE \VIs-
DoM : For what the Lord teacheth, he giveth alfo
to Man to perceive by Reafon ; and this, two \Vays,
one in that,.he feeth in himfelf that a Thing is io,
as foon as he heareth it ; the other, in that he un-
derflandeth it by Reafons ; to fee in himfelf is in
his internal 1\ian, and to underfrand by Reafons i~~
in his external Man : \Vho doth not fee in himfelf
this Truth, when he hears it declared, that the inter-
nal Man is fir!l to be purified, and thereby the ex-
term.l? But he who doth not receive a general Ide-a
of
Z04 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONC.ERNIN~
of this by Influx from Heaverr, may be led into a
Ivliftake when he confults the external Principle of
his T bught ; for from this external Principle no
one feeth otherwife, than that external Works,
which are of Charity and Piety, are faving without
internal Principles ; and fo in other Cafes, as that
Sight and Hea,ring flow into Thought, and Smell
and Tafte into Perception, and thus that what is ex.
tern4l ffows inro what is internal, when neverthelefs
it is the dir~a contrary ; that Things feen and heard
appear to flow i11to th~ Thought, is a Fallacy, for the
Underftanding feeth in the Eye and heareth in the
Ear, and not 'Vice -verfa ; So in other Cafes.
151. B~t here it ·may be expedient to obferve
briefly, how the internal Man is reformed, and
thereby the external ~ The internal Man is not re~
formed by knowing, underfl:anding, and being wife
alone ; confequently not by thinking alone ; but
by willing that which Knowledge, Intelligence, and
W ifJom teacheth ; when l\lan knows, under11ands,
and hath \Vifdom to fee, that there are fuch Places
as Heaven and Hell, and that all Evil is from Hell,
and all Good from Heaven, if then he willeth not
Evil becaufe it is from Hell, but wiL~th Good be.,.
C.t:..de :t is from B eaven, in this Cafe he is in the
firft Step of R eformation, and in the Entrance out
of Bell into Heaven ; when Man advanceth farther,
ClnJ willcth to defift from Evils, he i~ in the fecond
Step of Reform~tion, and then he is out of Hellt
b ut not yet in Heaven, which he fceth above him +
'1 here mufl be this lntemz,J, in Order 'that .!\fan
n1ay be reformeJ ; but unlefs both, as well the Ex,.
temal as the Internal be reformed, then Man is not
· reformed;
\
'THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 205
reformed; the External is reformed by the Internal~
when the External defifl:s from the Evils, which the
Internal willerh not, becaufe they are infernal, and
more fo when he therefore fhunneth them, and
fighteth againfl: them ; thus the Internal is to will,
11nd the External is to do, for unlefs a Perfon doeth
that which he wiHeth, within there is a Principle
tvhich willeth it not, and at length he cometh not
to wiil it. From thefe few Confiderations it may
be fcen, how the external Man is reformed by the
, internal : This alfo is what is meant by the Lord's
\Vonis to Peter, " Jcfus Jaid, lfI wajb tbee not,
tbau ha.fl no Part ·witb Me ; Peter faith unto him,
Lord, not my Feet only, but a!Jo my Hands and m
y .
Hrad: 'Jefus faith to bim, He tbat is -wajbed, need-
eth not, but that his Feet be wafbed, and is clean
every wbit," John xiii. 8, 9, 1 o : By Wafhing is
here meant fpiritual Wafhing, which is purification
from Evils ; by wafhing the Head and Bands is
meant to purify the internal Man, and by wa01ing
the Feet is meant to purify the external; that when
the internal Man is purified, the external is to be
purified, is meant by thefe vVords, " H e that is
"allied, needeth only that his Feet be wafhed ;"
that all Purification from Evils is from the Lord,
\s meant by thefe vVords, "If I wafl1 thee not, thou
~afi: no Part with Me." That \Va01ing among the
Jews reprefented Purification from Evils, and !hat
this is fignified by vVafhing in the \Vord, and that
by wafhing the Feet is fignifieJ the Purification of
the natural or external Man, is abundantly fhewn
in the ARCANA CELESTL\.
152 . Forafmuch
206 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
I 52. Forafmuch as Man hath an Internal and an
External, and both are to be reformed in Order
that the Man may be reformed, and forafmuch as
no one can be reformed, except he explore himfelf,
fee, and acknowledge his Evils, and afterwards de-
fifl: from them, it follows, that not only the Exter-
nal is to be explored, but alfo the Internal ; if the Ex.,
ternal only is explored, Man doth not fee any Thing
but what he hath or hat!J. not acrually committed, as
that he hath not committed Murder, nor Adultery,
nor Theft, nor borne falfe Witnefs, &c. ; thus he
explores the Evils of his Body, and not the Evils of
his Spirit, and yet the Evils of the Spirit are to be ·
explored, in Order that any one may be reformed ;
for Man lives a Spirit after Death, and all the Evils
which arc in the Spirit remain, and the Spirit is no
other:
wife explored, than by Man's attending to his
Thoughts, efpecially to his Intentions, for the Inten-
tions are Thoughts from the \ Vill ; in the \Vill
Evils are in their Origin and in their Root, that is,
in their Concupifcences and in their Delights, and
unlefs they are feen and acknowledged, Maq is f!:ill
in Evils, notwithfl:anding he may not have commit..
ted them in Externals : That to think from Inten-
tion, is to will and to do, is evident from the Words
of the Lord, " Whofoevcr looketb on a 1-Voman, to ll:ft
after her, hath committed Adultery with her already
in his Heart," Matt. v. :28 : Such is the Search of
the internal Man, by which the external Man is
eifentially explored.
I 53· I have often wondered, that although the
whole Chrifl:ian World is informed, that Evils are
to be iliunped as Sins, and that otherwife they are
not
TnE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 207
not remitted,--and that if Sins :>.re not remitted there
is no Salvation, yet neverthelefs fcarc~ one in a
thoufand knoweth this ; this was inquired into in
the fpiritual \Vorld, and it was found to be fo ; for
every one in the Chrii1ian ,..Vorld is informed here-
of from the Ptayers re;)d befcre thofe who receive
the Holy Supper, it beiag plainly declared therein;
and yet when they are afked whether they know
this, they anfwer that they do not know it, and
they did not know it; the Reafon is, becaufe they
did not think about it, and moft of them only
thought of Faith, and of Salvation by Faith alone.
And I have alfo wondered, that Faith alone fo !huts
the Eyes, that they who have confirmed themfelve~
in it, \vhen they read the Vvord, fee Nothing of
what is there faid of Love, Charity, and Works;
it is as though they had fmeared over all Things in
the ·ward \vith Faith, as he who fmears a \Vriting
over with Paint, whereby not any Thing which is
underneath appears, and if any Thing appears, it is
abforbed by Faith, and faid to be Faith.
That
208 AN.GELIC '"ISDOM ,CONC:CRNlNO
Tlwt it is a Law o/ tlze Divine Provi-
dence, tlzat }/Jan be led and taught of
the Lonl out if Heaven, by the rVm-d;
and by DoElrine and Preaclzings from
the Word, and this in all Appearance
asfrom himje!f.
l54· T~ .A?pea;ar:c~ !VT~n is led .and taught from
Jl hnn:df, but IU I ruth he IS led :ind taught
of the Lor£1 cnly : They Y
:ho confirm the Appear-
ance in themfel\'es, and not at the f1me Time the
Truth, are not abie to remove Evils as Sins from
themfelves; but they who confirm the Appearance)
;md at the f.:1me Time the Truth in themfelves, are
able ; for Evils as Sins- are removed in Appearance
by Man, and in Truth by the Lord ; the latter Perft
fons can be reformed, but the former cannot. They
who confirm Appearance, and not at the fame Time
Truth in rhemfelves, are all interior Idolators, for
they are Worfhippers of Self and the \Vorld ; if
they have no Religion, they become \Vorfhippers
of Nature, and fo Atheifrs; but if they have any
Religion, they become '\¥orfhippers of Men, and at..
the fame Time of Images ; thefe are they who are
meant in the firfr Commandment of the Decal0gue,
who worfhip other Gods; but they who confirm in
themfelves Appearance, and at the fame Time
Truth, become \Vorfhippers of the Lord, for the
Lord elevates them from their Proprium, (own prop-
er Life) which is principled in Appearance, <md
leadeth
leadeth them into Light, in which the Truth is, and
which is the Truth, and giveth them to perceive
interiorly, that they are not led and taught of them-·
felves, but of the Lord. 'fhe rational (Faculty) of
both thefe may appear h) many as :1like, but it i::;
diffimilar ; the rational Faculty of thofc who are
principled in Appearance, and at the fame Time in
the Truth, is a fpiritual Ratioml; but the rational
Faculty of thofe, who arc principled in .Appearance,
nnd not at the fame Time in the Trmh, is a natUral
Rational ; this latter ratio:1:1l Faculty may be com-
pared to a Garden, fuch as it is in th~ Light of
\Vinter; whereas the fpiritual rational Faculty may
be compared to a Garden, fuch as it is in the Light
of Spring. But of this, mo1·e in what hllows, in
this Order. I. That Man is led and taught of the
Lord only. ll. That Man is led and taught of the
Lord alone through the Angelic Heaven and out of
it. III. That l\1an is led of the Lord by Inilux, and
taught by Illumination. IV. That Man is taught of
the Lotd by the Vvord, and by DoCl:rine and Preach~
ings from the Word, therefore immediately by Him
a1one. V. That Man is led and taught of the Lord
in Externals to all Appearance as of himfelf.
ISS· I. That J.\!Ian is led and taught of the Lord
only : This flows, as an univerfal Confequence,
from all that was !he'.vn in the Treatifc concerning
THE DIVINE LovE 'B:D n-m D1v1N.E \Vrsno;:...t;
as well from what is there demonflrated concerning
the Divine Love of the Lord and his Divine Wif-
dom in Part the Firft; as concerning the .Sun of
the fpiritual \Vorld, and the Sun of the natural
World, in Part the Second ; alfo concerning De-
C c I
210 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
grees in Part the Third ; and concerning the Crea~
tion of the Univerfe, in Part the Fourth; as alfo,
concerning the Creation of Man, in Part the Fifth.
I s6. The Reafon why Man is led and taught of
the I~orJ only, is, becaufe he liveth from the Lord
only, fc':- the \Viii of his Life is led, and rhe Uncler-
flanding of his Life is taught: This, however, is
contrary to Appearance, for it appears to Man as
if he lived from himfelf, and yet the Truth is, that
he liveth from tl:e Lord, and not from himfelf:
Now forafmuch as there cannot be given to Man,
fo long as he is in the \Vorld, a Perception of Sen-
fation that he liveth from the Lord only, becaufe the
A ppearancc that he liveth from himfelf is not tak-
en away frf)rn him (for without it Man is not Man}
therd"ore this muft be evinced by Reafons, which
mllft afterwards be confirmed by Experience, and
lafily by the Vvord.
IS7· That i\1an liveth from the Lord only, and
not from himfelf, may be evinced by thefe Reafons ;
that there is one only}]fence, one only Subfiance,
and one only Form, from \\ hich ::tre all the Effenccs,
Subfiances, and Forms, \\<hlch are created: That
one only .Effence, Subflance, and Form, is the Di-
vine Love and the Pivine \Vifdom, from which are
all Things, which have Relation to Love and \Vif-
dom in Man : That morco\·cr it is Good itfelf and
Truth itfelf; to which all Things haYe Relation :
And that this is Life, from \vhich is the Life of All,
anJ all Things of Life : Alfo that the Self-fubfifl:ing
and Sole-fubfif1:ing Principle (Unicum tt Ipfum) is
Omniprefent, Omnifcient, and Omnipotent. .i}nd
that this Self.fubfifiing and Sole-fubfifiing Pri!l~iple
lS
Tun DrvrNE PROVIDENCE. 2 r r
i-s the Lord from Eternity, or Jehovah. FrRsT,
That tbere is one only ~ffi·ncc, one only Su!zflance, and
one on!y Form, from which all the l:ffcncc.r, Su!!fiancc.r,
<tndForms, which were created, arc; it was fhe\vn in
the Treatife on THE :prviNE LovE AND THE DI-
VINE \Vrsno~.1:, n. 44 to 46, and in Part the Second
of the fame Treatiie, that the Sun qf the Angelic
Heaven, which is from the Lord, and in wbic:h the
Lord is, is that Sole or 011ly Subfb.nce and Form,
from whkh all Things are created, and that Noth-
ing does exifl:, or can exifl:, which is not from ir:
'fhat all Things are from it by Derivations accord-
ing to Degrees, is i11ewn there in Part the Third.
\Yho doth not perceive and acknowledge from
Reafon, that there is one.fole Efience from which
all Effence is, or one fole E.!fc from which all Fjp
is ? VJ"hat can exifl: \Vithout an Effe, [a Being] and
v:hat is that Effe from which all Effe is, but Effe It-
felf, and that which is Eile itfelf, is alfo the Sole Ef-
fe, and in itfelf Effe : This being the Cafe, and e\'-
ery one perceiving and acknowledging this from
Reafon, or at lea(l, being capable of perceiving and
~cknowledging it, what elfe t~1en follows, than that
this Effe, which is the Divine itfelf, which is Jeho-
nh, is All in all Things which are and exifl: ? It is
the fame Thing if it be faid, that there is one fole
Subfl:ance, from which all Things are; and foraf.
much as a Subfl:ance without a Form is not any
Thing, it follows alfo, that there is one fole Form,
from which all Things are. That t!Je Sun of the
Angelic He<Jsen is that fole Subfl:ance and Form;
alfo how that E!fence, Subfl:ance, and Form, i~ va-
ried in Things. created, is demonfi:rated in the
above·mentioned
ZI2 ANGELIC 'VISDO~I CONCERNING
above-mentioned Treatife. SEcoNDLY, That that
one only E.iJ"If.'1Ce, Su!!flance, and""Form, is the Divinl!
Love and the Divine W!fr.!om; from which all Things
are, <:ohich ha'Ve Relation to Love and Wifdom in A1an,
is alfo fully fhe\m in the Treatife on THE DnTNE
l,ovE AND THE DIVINE \VISDOM; V\'hatfoever
Things in Man appear to live, have Relation to the
... Will and the Underftanding in him ; and that thefe
two Principles confiitute his Life, every one from
Reafon perceives and acknowledges ; why elfe is it
fo confianrly faid, I will this or I undertland this, or
I love this or I think this? And whereas l\lan will~
eth \vhat he loveth, and thinketh what he under.,
fiandeth, therefore all Things of the \Vill have Re-
lation to Love, and all Things of the Underfiand~
ing to \Vifdom: And forafmuch as thefe two Prin~
ciples cannot exifl: in any one from himfelf, but from
Him who is Love itfelf and Vfifdom itfelf, it follows,
that it is from thtt Lord from Eternity or Jehovah;
if this were not the Origin of thofe Principles, Man
would be LoYe itfclf and 'Wifdom itfelf, therefon~
God from Eternity, at which human Reafon itfelf
is fl:ruck with Horror. Can any Thing exifi but
from what is prior to itfelf, and can this Prior exifl
but from what is frill prior to it, and thus finally
from the Firfi:, which is in itfelf? THIRDLY: !1:
like Nlanner, that it is Good it/elfand Trutb itfe!f, ta
which all 'I'bings bave Relation. It is receiYed and
acknowledged by every one who hath Reafon, that
God is Good itfelf ;:.,nd Truth itfelf, alfo that every
Thing good and true is from Him ; therefore alfo
that what is good and true cannot come from any
other Source than from Good or Goodnefs and
Truth
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 213
- •rruth itfelf; thefe Things are acknowledged by ev.
ery rational Man as foon as they are heard : vVhen
it is next faid, that all of the \Vill and Underfl:and.
ing, or all of Lo~e and "\.
Vifdom, or all of AffeCtion
and Thought, with the Man who is led of the Lord,
hath Relation to Good and Truth, it follows, that
all which fuch l\hn willeth and underftandeth, or
which he lovcth and is wife in, or by w}1ich he is
affeB:ed and which he thinketh, is from the Lord:
Hence it is, that every one in the Church knO\veth,
that every Thing good and every Thing true from
Man in itfelf is not good and ttue, but only that
which is from the Lord. Forafmuch as this is a
Truth, it follows, that all that which fuch a Man
willeth and thinketh, is from the Lord. That neirher
can any wicked Man will and think from any other
Origin, will be feen in what follows. FouRTHLY,
That thofe Principles are Life;from which is the Life
ifAll, and all 'Things ofLife, is abundantly ihe\vn in
the Treatife on THE DIVINE LovE AND TnE Dr.
VINE vVISDOM. Human Reafon alfo, at the firfi:
Hearing, receives and acknowledges, that all the
Life of Man is of his 'Will and Underftanding, for
if the Will and Underfl:anding be taken away, he
doth not live; or, what is the fame, that all rhe Life
of Man is of his Love and his Thought, for if Love
;~nd Thought be taken away, he doth not live: Now
forafmuch as the All of the \Vill and Underfl:anding,
or the All of Love and Thought in Man is from 'the
Lord, as was faid above, it follows, that the i\ll of
Life is from Him. FIFTHLY, 'That this Se!fful!f'iJl·
-jng and Solefulftjfing Principle is Omniprefent, Omni-
Jcient, and Omnipotent; this alfo every Chrifl:ian ac.
kno\vledges
214 ANGELIC 'VISDOM CONCERNING
k~lo-.-deJgcs from his DoCtrine, and every Gentile
from his Religion ; hence alfo, every one, in what-
foever Place he is, thinks that God is where he is,
and prays to God as prefent ; and fince every one fo
thinketh, and fo prayeth, it follows, that they cannot
think otherwife than that God is every where, them-
fore Omniprefent : In like Manner that he is Omnip-
otent and Omnifcient; wherefore every one praying ,
to God implores from his Heart, that He would lead
him, becaufe He is able to do fo: Thus e\·ery one ac~
knowledges at fuch Time the DiYine Omniprefence,
Omnifcience, and Omnipotence; he acknowledgcth,
becaufe he then turns his Face to the Lord, and then
from Him floweth that Truth. SrxTHLY, That
this Se!ffulf!fting and Solefulffting Principle is the
Lord from Eternity, or 'Jebovah : In T HE Doc-
TRINE OF THE NEW jERUSALEM CONCERIHNG
THE LoRD, it is fhewn, that God is One in Effence
and Perfon, and that that God is the Lord, and
that the Divine [Principle] itfelf, which is called
Jehm·ah the Father, is the Lord from Eternity, and
that the Human Divine [Principle] is the Son con·
ceived by his Divine from Eterniry, and born in the
\Vorld ; and that the Pro::ecding Divine [Principle]
is the Holy Ghofl:. It is faid Self-fubfi !ling [Ipfum]
and Sole-fubt!fl:ing, becaufe it was faid before, that
the Lord from Eternity or Jehovah is Self-fubfifl:ing
Life, (Life itfelf) as being Love itfelf and \Vifdom
itfelf, or Goodnefs itfelf and Truth itfelf, from which
all Things are. That the Lord out of Himfelf cre-
ated all Things, and not out of Nothing, may be
feen in the Treatife on Tn.t DIVI:t\E LovE AND
'riiE DIVINE \VrsDoM, n. 282 to ::84, n. 349 to
357·
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. (lIS
357· By the above Confiderations, this Truth,
that ;vian is led and taught of the Lord al~ne, is con-
firmed by Reafons.
158. This fame Truth is confirmed, not only by
Realons, but alfo by living Perceptions among the
Angels, efpecially the Angels of the Third Heav-
en ; thefe perceive the Influx of Divine Love and
Divine Wifdom from the Lord; and inafmuch
as they perceive it, and from their \VifJom know
that the!e Principles are Life, therefore they fay
that they live from the Lord, and not from them-
felves; and this they not only fay, but alfo love and
defire that it may be fo: Neverthelefs they are fl:ill in
all Appearance, as if they lived from themfelves, yea
in a ftronger Appearance than other Angels, for, as
was fhewn above, n. 42 to 45, in Proportion as any
one is more nearly conjoined to the Lord, in thefame Pro-
portion he appcarcth to hin!ft!fmore dfftinaly to be his
o'Wn, and perceivet!J more cvidtntly that he is tbe
Lord's. It hat been given me alfo to be in a fimi-
lar Perception and Appearance, now for many
Years, from which I am fully convinced, that I
neither will nor tb!nk any Thing from myfelf, but
that it appears as from myfelf; and it is alio givca
to defire and love this. The fame may be confirm-
ed by many other Confiderations from the fpiritual
\Vorld, hut thefe two may fuffice for the Time.
159· That the Lord alone hath Life, is evident
from thefe Paifages in the \Vord, ': I am the Rifur-
reflion and the Life; he that belie•veth in Me, though
he were dead, yetJha!l he /i•ve," John xi. 2 5· "I am
the VVay, and the 'Truth, and the Life," John xiv. 6:
~'God was the Word, in Him was Life, and tbe Life
wa.r
216 ANGELIC \VrsooM CONCERNING
r;uas the Light of Men," John i. r, and 4· Th<!
\Yord there is the Lord. "As the Father bath Lift
in Hin!felf, fo !Je hath given to the Son to ha've L!fe hz
Hin!fe{f," John v. 26. That Man is led and taught
of the Lord only, is evident from thefe Paffages,
~'Without Me ye can do Nothing," John xv. 5·
"Man cannot take any Thing, unlefs it be given him
from Heaven," John iii. 27. "Man cmmot make one
Hair white or black," Matt. v. 36; by :t Hair in
tht: \Vord js fignified the leafl: of all Things.
16o. That the Life of the wicked is from the fame
Origin, will be demonfl:rated hereafter in its proper-
Article; we :fhail here only illufhate it by Compari..
fon; from the Sun of the World flows Heat ahd
Light, and enters by Influx as well into Trees which
bear evil Fruit, as into Trees which bear good Fruit,
and they vegetate and grow alike; the Forms, into
which the Heat enters by Influx, caufe that Differ~
ence, but not the Heat in itfelf. It is the fame with
Light, this is variegated in Colours ~cording to the
Forms, into which it enters by lnffux; there are
,beautiful and lively Colours, and there are ugly and
dull Colours, but flill the Light is the fame. It is
the fame with the Influx of fpiritual Heat which in
itfelf is Love, and of fpiritual Light which in itfelf is
\Vifdom, from the Sun of the fpiritual \Vorld ; the
Forms, into which they enter by Influx, make the
Difference, but not that Heat which is Lo\'e, and
that Light which is \Vifdom, in itfelf: The Forms
into which they flow, are human l\1inds. From
tbefe Confiderations then it is evident, that Man is
led and taught of the Lord alone.
161. But
THE Dr\TINE PRoVIDENcE. 217
16x. But what the Life of Animals is, was fhewn
above, namely, that it is a Life of Affection merely
natural with its concomitant Science ; anJ that it i3
a mediate Life correfponding to the Life of thofe
which are in the fpiritual World.
162. II. That lvlan is led and taught of the Lord
alone, through the Angelic Heaven and out ofit; it is
faid that Man is led of the Lord through the Angelic
Heaven, and out of it; but that it is through the An·
gelic Heaven, is from Appearance, ~·hereas that it is
out of it, is from the Truth: ·The Reafon why there
is an Appearance that it is through the Angelic Heav-
en, is, becaufe the Lord appeareth above that Heaven
as the Sun : The Reafon why it is the Truth, that
it is out of that Heaven, is becaufe the Lord in that
Heaven is as the Soul in a Man; for the Lord is
Omniprefent, and is not in Space, as was fhewn be-
fore, wherefore Difl:ance is an Appearance accord-
ing to Conjuntlion with Him, and Conjuntlion is
according to the Reception 6f Love and \Vifdom
from Him : And forafmuch as no one can be con-
joined to the Lord, as he is in Hirnfelf, therefore he
appeareth to the Angels at a Difl:ance as a Sun:
Neverthdefs He is in the univerfal Angelic Heaven,
like the Soul in a l\Ja:1 ; and in like l\'lanner in eve:.
ry Society of Heaven, and in like Manner in every
Angel there ; for the Soul of a :'.Jan is nat only the
Soul of the W~olc, but alfo of each Part. But
whereas it is from Appearance that the Lord ruleth
the univerfal Heaven, and through it the · \Vorld
from the Sun which is from Him, and in which He
is, concerning which Sun fee the Trec..tife on THE
Drvr~~E· Lov.£ AND THE DIVINE \VIsDoM, Part
D D the
21 S ANGELic WisDoM coNcERN1NC
the Second ; and whereas it is allowable for any
Man to fpeak from Appearance, neither can he do
othenvife, therefore it is allowable for any one, who
is not principled in Wifdom itfelf, .to think, that the
I.ord ruleth all and every Thing out of his Sun, and
alfo that he ruleth the \Vorld through the Angelic
Heaven; from fuch Appearance alfo the Angels of
the inferior Heavens think ; but the Angels of the
fuperior Heavens do indeed fpeak from Appearance,
cut they think from the Truth, which is that the
Lord ruleth the Univerfe out of the Angelic H eav-
en, which is out of Himfelf. That the Simple and
the \:Vife fpeak alike, but do not think alike, may be
illuflrated from the Sun of the \Vorld; of this Sun
all Men fpeak from Appearance, as that it rifes and ,
fets, but the ·wife, although they fpeak in like Man-
ner, flill think that it flands immoveable, which alfo
is the Truth, and the other \Vay of conceiving it is:
an Appearance. The fame may alfo be illufhated
from Appearances in the fpiritual \Vorld, for in that
World there appear Spaces· and Difhmces as in the·
natural \Vorld, but flill they are Appearances ac-
cording to the Diilimilitude of AffeD:ions and qf
Thoughts thence derived. It is the fame with the·
Appearance of the Lord in his Sun.
163. But how the Lord leadeth and teachetfl
every Man out of the Angelic Heaven, fhll briefly
be explained ; in the Treatife on THE DIVINE
LoV'E AND THE DiviNE WrsnoM, and above in
~his Treatife on THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE ; alfo
in the Work on HEAVEN AND HELL, publifhed in
London in the Year 1758, from Things feen and
heard it is made known, that the univerfal Angelic
Heaven
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. ZI9
Heaven appears before the Lord as one Man, and
in like Manner each Society in Heaven, 'and that
thence it is, that each particular Angel and Spirit is
in a perfecr human Form; and moreover in the
abovenamed Treatjfes it is fhewn, that Heaven is
not Heaven from the Proprium [own proper Life]
of the Angels, but from the Reception of Divine
Love and Divine Wifdom from the Lord by the
Angels: Hence it may appear, that the Lord ruleth
the univerfal Angelic Heaven as one Man; and that
that Heaven, inafmuch as it is a 1\'lan, is the very
Image and Lik..enefs of the Lord ; and that the
Lord Himfelf ruleth th~t Heaven, as the Soul
ruleth it5 Body. And forafm.uch as. the univerfal
human Race is ruled by the Lord, that it is not
ruled through Heaven, but out of Heaven by tlle
Lord, confequently out of Himfclt~ becaufe lie
flimfelf is Heaven, as was faid.
16+ But forafmuch as this is an Arcanum of
.Angelic \Vifdom, it cannot be comprehended by a
.Man, except he be o!le whofe fpiritual Mind is
opened, for fuch a Man, by Virtue of ConjunCtion
with the Lord, is an Angel ; and by fuch an one,
from what hath been premifed, the following Par-
ticulars may be comprehended. 1. That all, as
well Men as Angels, are in the Lord, and the Lord
in them, according to Conjunerion with Him. z.
That every one of thefe hath his Place appointed in
th-: Lord, therefore in Heaven, according to the
~ality of ConjunCtion or-Reception of Him. 3·
That every one in his Place hath his State difi:inet
from the State of others ; and that from the con~~
man (Body or Principle) he deriveth his Tafk ac.
cardin~
,I
220 ANG!LIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
cording to his Situation, his Funtl:ion, and his Necef..
fity, altogether' like any particular Part or Organ in
the human Body. 4· That every Man is initiated
into his Place by the Lord according to h1s Life,
5· That every Man from Infancy is introduced into
that Divine Man, whofe Soul and Life the Lord is,
and that he is led and taught out of his Divine
Love according to his Divine \Vifdom, in Him and
not out of Him. But inafmuch as Liberty is not
taken away from Man, that Man cannot otherwif~
be led and t~ught, than according to Reception as
if from himfelf. 6. That they who receive, through
infinii:e Windings and Meanderings, as it were, are
condutl:ed to their Places, nearly as the Chyle is
conveyed through the Mefentery and latl:eal Veffels
there into its Receptacle, and from thence through
the Thoracic DuB: into the Blood, and fo into its
proper Place. 7· That they who do not receive,
are feparateJ from thofe who are within the Divine
Man, as the Excrement and Urine are fecreted and
feparated by Man. Thefe are Arcana of A..
1gelic
Wifdom~ which may in fome Meafurc be compre..
hended by l\'Ian, but there <1re many which cannot.
165. III. 'That :Man is fed of the Lord by Influx,
(lnd taught by Illumination. The Reafon why Man
is led of the Lord by Influx, is, becaufe to be led,
:mu alfo to enter by Influx,.are predicated of Lo\·e
and of the vVill; and the Reafon why Man is
taught of the Lord by Illumination, is, becaufe to
be taught and to be illuminated are predicated prop-
erly of Wifdom and of the Underfianding : That
n ery l\'lan is led from his own Love of himfelf,
;111d according to it by others, and not from the
· l]nderflandingJ
THE DIVINE PROVIDENC_l!. 22 I
Vnderll:anding, is well known ; he is led by the
Underfl:anding and according to it, only when the
Love or the Will maketh the Underfl:anding; and
when this is the Cafe, it may alfo be faid of the Un-
derfl:anding that it is led, but yet the Underil:anding
in this Cafe is not led, but the \Vill from which it
is derived. It is called Influx, becaufe it is a cuf-
tomary Way of fpeaking to fay, that the Soul flows
into or operates by Influx upon the Body, and that
Influx is fpiritual and not phyfical, and the Soul
or Life of Man is his Love or \:Vill, as was fhewn
above ; alfo becaufe Influx is comparatively like
the Influx of the Blood into the Heart, and out
of the Heart into the Lungs ; that there is a Cor-
refpondence of the Heart with the Will, and of the
Lungs with the Underfl:anding, and that the Con-
junCtion of the Will with the Underftanding is like
the lnflux of the Blood out of the Heart into the
Lungs, is fhewn in the Treatife on THE D1vn1E
LovE AND THE DIVINE \:VIsl:loM, n. 37 r to 432.
166. But the Reafon why Man is taught by
Illumination, is, becaufe to be taught and alfo to
be illuminated are predicated of the Underfl:anding,
for the Underftanding, which is the internal Sight
of Man, is no otherwife illuminated by fpiritual
Light, than as the Eye or external Sight of Man i~
by natural Light ; in like Manner alfo both are
taught, but the internal Sight, which is of the Un-
deril:anding, by fpiritual Objects, and the external
Sight, which i~; of the Eye, by natural ObjeCts.
There is fpiritual Light and natural Liciht, both as
to external Appearance alike, but as to internal un-
like, for natural Light is from the Sun of the natu"
ral
Z2Z. ANGELIC ,VISDOI\'1 CONCERNING
ral World, and thence in itfelf is void of Life,
whereas fpiritual Light is from th~ S.un of the fpir..
itual World, and thence in itfelf is living ; this lafl
illuminates the human Underfl:anding, and not
natural Light : Natural and rational Illumination
[Lumen] is not from the latter Light, but from the
former ; it is called natural and rational lllumina..
tion, becaufe it is fpiritual-natural ; for there are
three Degrees pf Light in the fpiritual V/orld,
cele!l:ial Light, fpiritual Light, and fpiritual~natural
Light; cele!l:ial Light is a ruddy flaming Light,
this Light they have who are in the third Heaven ;
fpiritual Light is a white fhining Light, this Light ·
they have who are in the middle Heaven ; and
fpiritual-natural Light is fuch as the Light of Day
is in our \Vorld, thi~ Light they have who a:re in
the ultimate Heaven, and alfo they who are in the
Vvorld of Spirits, which is the miQ.dle between
Heaven and Hell ; but this Light, 'in the latter
\Vorld, is with the good like the Light of Sum..
mer, and with the wicked like the Light of 'Winter
upon Ear~h. But it is to be noted, that all the
Light of the fpiritual World hath Nothing in com..
man with the Light of the natural World; they
are as different as Life and Death. From which it
is evident, that natural Light, fuch as we have be-.
fore our Eyes, doth not illuminate the Underfl:and..
ing, but fpiritual Light. Man is ignorant of this,
becaufe heretofore he knew Nothing of fpiritual
Light. That fpiritual Light is in its Origin Divine
\Vifdom, or Divine Truth, is !hewn in tJie \Vork
on H.£AVEN AN:O I-Inr., n. 126 to 140.
167. Forafmuch
THE DIVINE i>ROV'IDENCli.
167. Forafmuch as the Light of Heaven hath'
now been fpoken of, it may be expedient to fay
Something alfo of the Light of Hell : Light in Hell
is alfo of three Degrees ; the Light in the lowefr -·
Hell is like the Light of burning Coals ; the Light
in the middle Hell is like the Light from the Flame
of a \Vood Fire ; and the Light in the highefr Hetl
is like the Light of Candles, and to fome like the
Light of the Moon by Night. Neither are thcfe
Lights natural, but they are fpiritual, for all natural
Light is dead, and extinguifhcth the Underfianding,
and they who are in Hell, have the Faculty of Un~
derfiaqding, which is called Rationality, as was
fhevm before, and Rationality itfelf is from fpiritual
Light, and not in the leafl: from natural Light ; <:.ncl
the fpiritual Light which they have from Rationali-
ty, is turned into infernal Light, as the Light of
Day into the Darknefs of Night. But yet all who
are in the fpiritual Vvorld, as well they in the HeaY~
ens, as they in the Hells, fee in their own Light as
clearly as Man doth by Day in his ; the Reafon is7
becaufe the Eye of every one is formed for the Re·
ception of the Light in which he is ; therefore the
Eyes of the Angels of Heaven for the Reception of
the Light in which they are, and the Eyes of the
Spirits of Hell fo; the Reception of their Light ;
with thefe it is comparatively as with Owls and
Bats, which fee Objecrs as clearly in the Night as
other Birds fee them in the Day; for their Eyes
are formed for the Reception of their own Light.
But the Difference between thefc Lights appears
clearly to thofe who look out of one Light into
.another; as when an Angel of Heaven looks into
Hell_
224 ANGE-LIC WISDOM CONCERNING
Hell, he fees Nothing but mere Darknefs there ;
and when a Spirit of Hell looks into Heaven, he
fees Nothing but Darknefs there ; the Reafon is;
becaufe cele£l:ial Wifdom is to thofe who are in Hell
as Darknefs, and on the other Hand infernal Infan•
ity is to thofe who are in Heaven as Darknefs.
Hence it may appear, that fuch as a Man's Under~
fi:mding is, fuch is his Light, and that every one
cometh into his own Light after Death, for he doth
not fee in any other; and in the fpiritual World,
where all arc fp:rilual even as to their Bodies, the
Eyes of all ~reformed to fee from their own Light;
the Life's Love of every one maketh to itfelf an Un-
J erfianding, and fo alfo a Light ; for Love is as the
Fire of Life, from which is the Light of Life.
168. Forafmuch,as few know any Thing of the
Illumination, in which the Underfianding of Man
is, who is taught of the Lord, therefore Something'
fhall be faid of it. There is Illumination from the
Lord interior and exterior, and there is Illumina-
tion from Man alfo interior and exterior : Interior
Illumination from the Lord is, when a Man at firfl:
hearing perceiveth whether that which is faid be
true or not true ; exterior Illumination is derh·ed
thence in the Thought : Interior Illumination from
Man is from Confirmation alone ; and exterior
Illumination from Man is from Science alone ; but.
to fpeak of each more particularly. A rational
Man by interior Illumination from the Lord immedi-
ately perceiveth, when he hears Things faid, wheth-
er they are true or not true ; as for Example; when
it is faid that Love is the Life of Faith, or that
Faith liveth from Love ; a Man from interior lllu.
mination
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. Z-25
ruination alfo perceiveth this, that \vhatfocver a
Man loves that he willcth, and what he willcth that
he doeth, and confequently that to love is to do :
Alfo he perceives this, that whatfoevcr a Man belicv~
eth from Love, that alfo hewilleth and doeth,and con~
fequently; that to have Faith is alfo to do ; likewifc,
that an impious Man cannot have the Love of God,
therefore neither the Faith of God. A rational Man
alfo;from interior Illumination,when he hears, imme~
diately perceiveth the following Truths; That God is
one : That he is Omniprefent : That every Good
is from him : Alfo, that all Things have R.elatiOii
to Goodnefs and Truth ; anq that every goo.d
Thing is from Goodnefs itfelf, and e\,ery Thing
true from Truth itfelf. _ Thefe, and other fuch like
Truths; 1\lan petceiveth interiorly in himfelf, when
he . heareth them; the Reafon why he petceiveth;
is, becai.tfe he hath Rationaiity, and this is in the
Light of Heaven which illuminates. Exterior Il/u:.
mination is Illumination of the Thought derived
from interior Illumination, and the Thought is fo
far in il!uminat_ion as it remaineth in the Perception
which it hath from interior Illumination, and ·as it
hath at the fame Time Knowledges of Things true
and good, for from thcfe it fupplies itfelf with Rea~
fdnli for Confirmation. The Thought, by Virtue
of this exterior Illumination, feeth a Thin~ on both
Sides, on one Side it feeth the Reafons which con-
firm it, on the other Side it feeth the Appearances
which invalidate it, the latter it difpelleth, the form*
er it colletl:eth. But interior Illumination from Man,
is totally different ; a Man, by Virtue of this Illumi-
- nation, feeth a Thing on one Side, and not on the
E E other,
226 ANGELIC \VISDO.M CONCERNING
other, and when he hath confirmed it, he feeth it
in a Light fimilar, as to Appearance, to the Light
treated of above, but it is the Light of \Vinter : As.
for Example; a Judge, who : in Confequence of
Bribes, and for the Sake of Interefl:, judgeth unjufi-
ly, after he hath confirmed his Judgment by the
Laws and by Reafons, doth not fee any Thing but
Jufl:ice in his Judgment ; fome fee Injufl:ice, but be-.
caufe they do not defire to fee it, they darken and
blind themfelves, and fo do not fee it : It is the fame
with a Judge, who pafTeth Judgment under the In-
fluence of Friendfhip, from the Defire of concilia-
ting Favour, and from the Influence of Connexions.
'With Perfons of fuch a Charatl:er, the fame Thing
happens in Refpetl: to whatever they receive from
the Mouth of a Man of Authority, or from a Man
of Reputation or Fame, or in Refpea to whatever
they have hatched out of their own Self-derived
Intelligence ; They are blind Reafoners, for their
Sight is grounded in falfe Principles, which they
confirm, and what is Falfe dofeth up the Sight,
and Truth openeth it. Such Perfons do not fee
any Truth from the Light of Truth, nor any Thing
jufl: from the Love of Jufl:ice, but from the Light
of Confirmation, which is infatuating Light ; they
appear in the fpiritual \Vorld like Faces without a
Head, or like Faces fimilar to human Faces, behind •
which there are Heads 0f Wood, and they are call-
ed .rational Beafl:s, [ Pecudes] becaufe they have Ra-
tionality in their Power. But t',\"terior J/luminatior.
from Man, hath Place with thofe who think and
fpeak from'Science alone imprelfed upon the Mem.
ory ~
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 227
cry ; thefe from themfelves arc but little able to
confirm any Thing~
169. Such are the Differences of Illumination
:md thence of Perception and Thought ; there is
~n aCl:ual Illumination from fpiritual Light, but the
Illumination itfelf from that Light doth not appear
to any one in. the natural World, becaufe. natural
Light hath Nothing in common with fpiritual Light:
This Illumination hath fometimes appeared to me
in the fpiritual \Vorld, being feen about thofe who
were in Illumination from the Lord, as Something
luminous about the Head, like a ruddy Light of the
Colour of the human Face [rutilam Colore Facici
bumance.] But with thofe who are in Illumination
from themfelve£, there was fuch a luminous Ap-
pearance not about the Head, but about the Mouth
and above the Chin.
170. Befides thefe Illuminations there is alfo
another Illumination, by which it is revealed to
Man, in what Faith, and in what Intelligence and
\Vifdom he is, which ReYelation is fuch, that he
himfelf perceiveth it in himfelf; he is admitted into
a Society, where there is genuine Faith, and where
there is true Intelligence and Wifdom, and there
-his interior Rationality is opened, from which he
feeth his Faith, and his Intelligence and Wifdom,
of what Kind they are, even to the Acknowledg-
ment thereof: I have feen fome returning from
thence, and I have heard them confefs, that .they
had had no Faith, although in the \VorlJ . they
thought they had much, and in an eminent D~gree
above others ; in like l\Ianner they confefid r!?fpeCl:~
ing their Intdligcn~ and \Yifdom : They were fomc
cf
f28 ANqELic 'VrsnoM ~ON<;ERNING
of thofe who were principled ~n Faith alone·, an4
~n no Charity, and \Vh9 wer~ ~n Se~f-de:rived In~
telligence.
17 1. IV. That Man is taught rf the Lprd by tht
Word, and by DoCtrine and Preacbings from tb~ H'ord~
'and thus inimediately from Him alone. ~t was faiq
and fuewn a~ove, - that Man is l~d and taught of
the Lord alone, and this out of Heaven, and not
through Heaven, or through any Angel there ;
and forafmuch as he is led 9f the Lord alone~ it
follows, that he is led immediately, not m~diately ;
But how this is done, we fhall proceed to explain.
- -172. In THn DocTRINE Of THE NEw jERU~
~ALEM CONCERNING THE SACRED SCRIPTURE~
it is fuewn, that the Lord is the \:Vonl, and that all
Do8:rine of the Ch~rch is to be drawn out of the
'\Vord; now inafmuch as the Lord is the \Vord,
it foll~ws, that the Ma1,1 who is taught out of the
vVord, is taught o~· the Lord alone. But becaufe
this is difficult to be comprehended, it may be expe4
client to illufhate it in this Order. 1. That the
Lord is the \ Vord, becanfe the Word is from Him
and of Him. 2: And becaufe it is the Divine
Truth of Divine Good. 3· T!)at thus to be taught
out of the \Vord, is to be taught out of Him. 4•
And that this being effeCt:ed mediately l::>y Preach-
ings doth not take away t~e immediate [Teaching.]
FIRST~ "That tb~ Lord iJ th~ Word, becazfe it is from
Rim, and concerning. Him. That the Word is from
the Lord~ ~s deni~d ~y ~o o~~ ~n the Church; but
that th·e Wor~ is concerning the Lord Alone, this
indeed is not denied, but neither is it known ; it is
· powever fhewn in the DocTRIN~ oF THE NEw jE-
~USALE:M CONCERNING THE LORD, n. I to 7, and
· n. 37
T HE D iyiNE PROVID.ENCE. 229
n. 37 t o 44; and in the DocTRIN E oF TIIE N Ew
jE RU SAL EM coNCERNING TH£ S ACRED S c RIP-
TU RE, n. 62 to 69, n. 8o to 90, n. 98 to roo: Now
forafmuch as the \Vord is from the Lord alone, and
l=oncerning the Lord a}qne, it follows, that when
Man is taught out of the \Vord, he is taught out of
the Lord, for the \Vord is Divine; who can c'om-
municate what is Divine, and plant it in the Heart,
put the Divine (Being) I-Iimfelf, from whom it is,
and concerning whom it treats? \Vhcrefore the
,J..ord faith, where he fpeaketh of his Conjunaion
\Vith his Difciples, " 'That they jhould abide in Him~
and His vVords in them," .John XV. 7. " Tbat bis
I¥ords were Spirit and Life," John vi. 63: "And
tbat be maketh his Abode with them, w bo keep his
H'ords,'~ xiv. 20 to 24; wherefore to·think from or
put of the Lord, is to think from. or out of the
\Vord, as by the \Vord. That all Things of the
'\Vord have Communication with Heaven, is !hewn
in THE DocTRINE oF THE NE\v jERUSA L I\;\l
CONCERNING THE SACRE'D ScRIPTURE, from Be-
ginning to End ; and forafmuch as the Lord is Hcav-
~n, it is meant that all T hings of the \Vord have
Com;nunication with the Lord Himfelf: The An-
gels of H eaven indeed have Communication, but
this is alfo from the Lord. SEcoN DLv , 'That thl'
~ord h tbe Word, bccaz!fe it is the Di'Vine 'Trutb of
Divine Good : That the Lord is the Word, I1e tcach-
cth in John in thefe \ Vords, '' !n the Beginning was
the Word, and tbe Trord was witb God, mzd God '71.-·as
tbc Word : And the Hord 'was made F!tjh, an.i dwelt
in us,." i. 1 , 14: Forafmuch as this Pa:lfage hath
heretofore been no otherwife underflood , than as
implying
ZJO ANGELIC \VrsDOM CONCERNING
implying that God taught Men by the \Vord, there.
fore it hath been explained by fuppofing it an eleva.
ted Expreffion, which involves thattheLord is not the
\Vordirfelf: The Reafonis,becaufe Men didnot know,
that bv the \Vord i::; meant the Divine Truth of Di.
J
·'l'ine Good, or, what is the fame, the Divine Wifdom
of Divine Love ; that thefc are the L(;rd Himfelf, is
fl1ewn in the Treatife on THE DIVINE LovE AND
THE DIVINE \VIsnoM, in Part the Firfi:; and that
thefe are the \Vord is {hewn in TH.I<; DocTRINE
OF THE Nnv JERUSALEM coNCERNING THE SA.
CRED ScRIPTURE, n. 1 to 86. How the Lord is
the Divine Truth of Divine Good, we fhall alfo
briefly fhew in this Place : A Man is not a Man by
Virtue of his Face and Body, but by Virtue of the
Good of his Love and the Truths of his Wifdom ;
and whereas IVIan is Man by Virtue of thefe Princi.
pies, every Man is alfo his own Truth and his own
Good, or his own Love and his own \Vifdom; \vith.
out thefe he is not a Man: But the Lord is Good.
nefs itfelf and Truth itfelf, or, what is the fame,
Love itfelf and Wifdom itfelf; and thefe are the
'Word, which in the Beginning was with God, and
which was God, and which was made Flefh.
' THIRDLY, 'That thu:; to be taught out iftbe ·word, i.r
'!o be taught cfthe I.ord Ilimfelf, becaufe it is to be
taught out of Goodncfs itfelf and out of Truth itfelf~
or out of Love itfdf and out of Wifdom itfelf,
which are the Wore!, as was faid ; but every one is
taught according to the Underfbn~ing of his Love,
and what is over and above doth not remain. All
they, who are taught of the Lord in the 'V"ord, are
in!h uued in a few Truths in the ''v\rorld, but in ma-
ny
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. Zj I
ny when they become Angels; for the Interiors of
the 'Vord, which are Divine Spiritual and Divine
Celefiial Things, are implanted at the fame Time,
but thefe are not opened in Man till after his De~th,
in Heaven, where he is in Angelic \Vifdom, which,
con;paratively to human, and therefore to his formyr
'Vifdom, is ineffable. That the Divine fpititual and
the Di\'ine celeflial Things, which confl:itute Angel·
ic \Vifdom, are in all and every Particular of the
\Vord, may be feen in TnE DocTIUNE oF T'HE NEw
jERUSALEM coNCERNING THE SACRED ScRIP..
TURE, n. 5 to 26. FouRTHLY, Tbat this being if-
jc[Jed mediately by Prcachings, dotb not take awa7
the immediate ['Tcacbing :] The Word cannot other·
wife be taught than mediately by Parents, Mafl:en,
Preachers, Books, and efpecially by reading it; but
fiill it is not taught from them, but by them of the
Lord: This alfo is agreeable to what is known un-
to Preachers, \vho fay, that they do not fpeak from
themfelves but from the Spirit of God ; and that
every Thing true, as well as every Thing good, is
from God ; they can indeed fay this, and make it
enter into the Underfl:anding of many, but not into
the Heart of any one, and what is not in the Heart,
that perifheth in the Underfl:anding ; by the Heart
is meant the' Love of Man. Hence it may be feen,
that Man is led and taught of the Lord alone ; and
immediately of Him, when out of the vVord. This
is an Arcanum of Arcana of Angelic \Vifdom.
173· That the Vvord is alfo the Light of thofe,
who are out of the Church, and have not the \Vord,
is fhewn in Tr-IE DocTRINE OF THE NEw .fF.RtiSA-
L.iM coNcERNING THE SACRED ScRIPTURE, n.
104
232 ANGELIC: \VISDOM CONCERNING
r04 to 1 I 3 : And forafmuch as Man hath Light
through the Word, and from Light hath Under;
Handing, and this is the Cafe with the, Wicked as
well as the Good; it follows, that from Light in it~
Origin, exills Light in its Derivations, which are
Perceptions and Thoughts on any Subject whatfoev-
er: The' Lord faith, "'!'bat without Him they tan
do Nothing," }olm X't. 5· "'!'hat a Nlan cannot take
any 'Tbing except it be gi'l.•en hi?~zfrom Heaven,"'John
iii. 2 7. " And that our Father 'lohicb is iiz Heaven,
mahth his Sun to r!fe on the Evil and on the Cood, and
fcndeth Rain on the Jz!fl and on the Unjlffl," Matt. V•
45; by Sun is meant here, as dfewhere in the
'\:Vm:d, in its fpiritual Senfe, the Div-ine Good ofDi-
:dne LoYe, and by Rain the Divine Truth of Divine
\:Vifdom; thefe are given to the Evil and to the
Good, and to the Jufi and to the Unjufl:, for ifthey
were not given, no one would have Perception and
Thought. That there is one fole life, from which
all have Life, was fi1ewn above, and Perception and
Thought is of Life, wherefore from the fame Faun•
tain from v;rhich Life is, are alfo Perception and
Thought. That all Light, which makes the Under•
fl:anding, is from the Sun of the fpiritual World;
which is the Lord, was abundantly {hewn above.
I74· V. '.Tbat Man in Externals is led and taugbt
of the Lord, to all Appearance as of bin!fc!f: This is
done in his Externals, but not in Internals ; no one
knows how t11e Lord leadeth and teacheth .:Vlan in
his Internals, jufi as he doth not know how the
Soul operates that the Eye may fee, the Ear hear,
the Tongue and Mouth !peak, the Heart impel the
Blood, the Lungs refpite, the Stomach digefl, the
Liver
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 2JJ
.
Liver and Pancreas difhibute [dijpon~nt,] the Kid-
beys fecrete, and innum~rable other Things ; thefe
do not come to the Perception and Senfation of
Man ; in like Manner it is with the Things \vhich
nre done of the Lord in the interior Subfrances and
Forms of the Mind, which Things are infinitely
more in number : The Operations of the Lord
therein do not appear to Man ; but the EileB:s
themfelves appear, which are many, and a1fo feme
Caufcs of EffeB:s ; thefe are Extern;Hs in which
Man is, together with the Lord ; and forafmuch as
Externals make one with Internals, for they cohere
in one Series, therefore no other Difpofition can be
made in Internals by the Lord, but accordi:1g to
that Difpofition \vhich is made in Externals by
Means of Man. That Man thinketh, willeth,
fpeaketh, and acreth to all Appearance as from
himfelf, every one knows ; and that without fuch
Appearance Man would have no \Vi!l and Under-
fianding, ccnfequently no AffeCtion and Thought,
and alfo no Reception of any Thing good and true
from the Lord, any one may fee ; this being the
Cafe, it follows, that without fuch Appearance
there would be no Knowledge of God, no Charity
and Faith, and confequently no Reformation and
Regeneration, therefore no Salvation ; from which
Confiderations it is evident, that this Appearance
was given to Man of the Lord for all thofe Ufes ;
and principally that he might have a Receptive and
a Reciprocal [Principle] (or Receptibility and Re·
ciprocality,) by which the Lord may be conjoined
to Man, and' Man to the Lord, and that Man by
that ConjunCtion may live to Eternity. This Ap-
pearance it is which is here meant.
F F CJ'bat
'Z34 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
That it i~ a Law of the Divine Provi-
dence, that Man Jhould not perceive
andfeel any Thing ofthe OpeTation o/
the Divine P1·ovidence, but )'Ctjhould
know and acknowledge it.
-
I75· THE natural Man, who doth ~at believe
in the Divine Providence, thinks with
himfelf, \Vhat is the Divine Providence, when I fee
the vVicked are promoted to greater Honours, and
acquire more Vlealth than the Good ; and when
many fuch like Things facceed better with thofe,
who do not believe in the Divine Providence, than
\vith thofe who do ? Yea, when Infidels and impi~
ous Perfons can occafion Injuries, Loffes, and Mif.
fortunes, and fometimes Death to the Faithful and
Pious, and this by Craft and Malice ? Thus the
natural Man in Thought f.1ys to himfelf, Do not I
fee from Experience itfelf, as in open pay, that de-
ceitful Machinations, provided a Man by ingenious
Cunning can make them appear to be faithful and
j'u!l:, prevail over Fidelity and Jufl:ice ? What am I
to think then of other Cafes, but that they are Ne-
'cefiities, Confequences, and fortuitous Incidents, in
~vhich Nothing from the Divine Providence ap-
pears? Are not Neceffities to be afcribed to Na.t
ture ? Are not Confequences Caufes flowing from
natural or civil Order ? And are not fortuitous In-
cidents either derived from Caufes which are not
known, or from no Caufes at all ? Such are the
Thoughtg
T:HE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 235
Thoughts of tbe natural Man, who attributes Noth-
.ing to God, but all Things to Nature, for he w·ho
doth not attribute any Thing to God, neither doth
he attribute lny Thing to the Divine Providence,
inafmuch as God and the Divine Providence make
one. But the fpiritual M.:tn f.-~ys or thinks other-
wife with himfelf ; ,altbo~gh he doth not perceive
in Thought, or fee with his Eyes, the Divine Prov- ·
idence in its Progrefiion, yet · he knoweth and ac-
knowledgeth it. Now forafmuch as the above~
mentioned Appearances and confequent Fallacies
have blinded the Underftanding, and thjs cannot
receive any Sight, unlefs the Fallacies which had
induced Blindnefs, and the falfe Principles which
had induced Darknefs, be difpell.ed; and forafmuch
as this cannot be done but by Truths, in which
there js a Power of difpelling falfl! Principles, there-
fore thefe Truths are to be opened ; but that this
may be done difi:inaly, it I}1ay be expedient to ob-
ferve the following Order. !. That if Man per-
ceived and feJt the Operation of the 'Divine Provi-
dence, he would not atl: from Liberty according to
Re:1fon, neither would any Thing appear to him as
from himfelf~ The fame wo'l).ld be the Cafe if he
foreknew Events. II. That if Man manifefl:ly faw
the Divine Providence, he would interfere with the
Order (inferretft Ordini) and Tenor of its Progref-
fion, and pervert and deftroy it. III. That if Man
manifefUy faw the Divine Providence, he would ei~
ther deny God, or make himfelf a God. lV. That
i.t is given Man to fee the Divine Providence on
t4e Back, and not in the Face (a 'rcrgo ct,non a
Facie;)
~36 ANGELIC \VrsnoM <::ONCERNING
Facie;*) alfo in. a fpiritual Stat~, and not in a nat,
uralState. ·
I 76. I. That if A!an perceived andftlt the Opera~
tion of the Di·vine Pro'!Jidcnce, he would not ac? jron1
Liberty according to Reafon, neither woulcf, any Thing
appear tq him as from hiJrfe!f, or qs his own. The
fame would be tbe Cafe if Nian foreknew Events,
That it is a Law of the Div~ne ?rovidence, that Man
thould acr from Liberty ~cording to Reafon ; alfo
that whatfoever a Man. willeth, thinketh, fpeaketh,
fJ.nd doeth, ihould appear to him as from himfelf ?
and that without fuch Appearance no Man would
have any Thing his own, or be his own Man, there~
fore would have Nothing proper to himfelf ( Pr~
prium,) aqd tht!S no Imputation, without which it
.WOt:!ld be indifferent whether he did Evil or Good,
;md whether he had the Faith of God or the Per'!'
fuafion of Hell ; in a \"fi.Tord, that in fuch a Cafe he
would not be l\Ian, was ihewn above under its feve~·
ral Articles to the Evidence of the Underfl:anding,
We ihall now proceed to ihew, that M~n would
llave no Liberty of atling according to Reafon, and
no Appearance of atling as from himfelf, if he per~
{;eived and felt the Operation of the Divine Provi"!
dence, beca~fe if he perce~ved and felt it, he would
alfo be led of it, for the Lord by his Divine Provi"
dence leadeth all, and not Man himfelf except in
Appearance, as was alfo ihewp above ; wherefore
if he had a lively Perception and Senfatio:p of being
led, he would not be confcioHs of Life, and in fuch
Cafe would fcarcely differ from a Statue, when op'!'
erated
* A 7'trgo rt non a Facie, or when it is paA: and not in its .A,pproacl\,
pr behind and not before. The literal Verfion is preff;rre<!, and
i:~ferted in the Tnt a~ being more exprdlive.
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. '237
.erated upon to utter Sounds and to·afr: Suppofing
him however fiill confcious of Life, yet he would
only be led like one bound Hand and Foot, or like
a Horfe before a Cart : Who doth not fee, that in
this Cafe Man would not have any Liberty, and if
he had not any Liberty, neither would he have any
Reafon, for every one thinketh from Liberty and in
Liberty, and whatfoever he doth not think from
Liberty and in Liberty, doth not appear to him
from himfelf, but from another ; yea, if you weigh ·
this interiorly, you will perceive, that !~either would
.he have Thought, mc..-::h lefs Reafon, and confe.
quently would not be a Man.
I 77. It is the contin.ual Operation of the Divine
Providence of the Lord, to withdraw Man from
Evils ; fuppofing now any one were to percei\'e
and feel this continual Operation, and yet were not
to be led as one bound, would he not continually
refift it, and in fuch Cafe would he not either firive
with God, or mix Self with the Divine Providence ?
If he did the latter, he would make himfelf alfo
God ; if the former, he would loofe himfelf from
p.ll Bonds, and deny God : This is very evident,
that there would be two Powers continually aB:ing
p.gainfi each other, the Power of Evil from Man,
and the Power of Good from the Lord, and when
two Oppofites at\: againfl: each other, then either
one overcometh, or both perifh ; but in this Cafe,
if one overcometh, both peri!h, for the Evil which
is of Man doth not receive Good from the Lord in
a Moment, neither doth the Good from the Lord
~aft out the Evil from Man in a :Moment, for if
either the one or the other were done in a Moment,
Life
238 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING ''-.
Life would not remain in Man. Thefe and many
other hurtful Confequences would enfue, if Man
manifefl:ly perceived or felt the Operation of the
Divine Providence. But this will be clearly d~m.,.
onfl:rated by Examples in what follows.
1;8. The Reafon alfo, why ir is not given Man
to foreknow Events, is, that he may be able to act
from Liberty according to Re4fon; for it is known,
that whatfoever ~an loveth, he wH}eth to efFeCt,
and leadeth himfelf to it by 1\eafpn ; alfo that there .
is Nothing that a Man revolveth in, his Reafon,
·which is not from his Love that it may cqme into
EffeCt by Thought ; wherefore if he knew the Ef.,.
feet or Event from Divine PrediCtion, Reafon would
become quiefcent, ( acquiefcerct,) and with Reafon
Love ; for Love with Reafon terminates in the Ef,.
feCl:, and .from the EffeCt beginneth anew. It is the
\'ery e!femial Delight of Reafon, that from Love in
'Thought it feeth the EfreCt:, not i1;1 the EffeCt, bu~
before it, or not in the prefent, but in the f1,1ture;
Hence Man hath that which is called HoPE, which
in Reafon increafeth and dec;:reafeth, as it fees c;
expeCts the Event; this Delight is fulfilled in the E.~
vent, but afterwards is obliterated with the Thought
concerning the Event; it would be the fame w!tl;l
an Event foreknow11. The Mind of Man is contin~
ually in thefe three Principles, which are calle~
End, Caufc, and EffeCt ; if one of thefe is wanting,
the human Mind is not in its Life ; the AffeCtion
of the \Vill is the End from which, the Thought
of the Underfl:anding is the Caufe by which, and
the ilCl:ion of the Bocly, the Speech of the Mouth,
or external Senfation, are the EfTetl of the End 't.y
the
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. r~,n
-.);7
the Thought : That the 'human Mind is not in its
Life, when it is only in the AffeB:ion of the ·will,
and in Nothing_ elfe, and in like Manner when it is
only in the EffeB:, is evident to any one ; wherefore
the Mind hath not any Life from one of the Princi4
ples feparately, but from the three in 'ConjunB:ion ;
this Life of the Mind would be diminiihcd and
would recede in a predicted Event.
I 79· Forafmuch as a Foreknowledge ofthc Fu.
• ture takes away the effential hum:m Principle, which
confifrs in aB:ing from Liberty according to Reafon,
therefore it is not given to any one to know the Fu-
ture, but every one is allowed to conclude concern-
ing Things to come from Reafon, and hence Reafon
with aU that appertaineth to it is in its Life ; it is on
this Account, that l\1an doth not know his Lot after
Death, or know any Event before he.is in it ; for if
he knew, he would no longer think from his interi-
or Self (interioreJe,) hovJ he ,~:as to att or to live,
in Order that he may come thereto, but would
think onlv from his exterior Self, that it would
J
come to paf:>, and this latter State clofeth the Inte-
riors of his Mind, in which the two Faculties of his
Life, which arc Liberty and Rationalit):, principally
refide. The De!lre of foreknowing the Future is
connate with mofr People, but this Defire derives
ir Origin from the! Love of Evil; wherefore it is ta-
ken away from thofc who believe in the Divinl!
Providence, and there is given to them a Confi-
<!ence, that the Lord will difpofe of their Lot, and
therefore they do not defire to foreknow ir, left by
any Means they fnould interfere with the Divine
Prov~dence : This the Lord teacheth by many Paf.
fages
~40 ANGELIC \VlSDOM CONCERNING
fages in Luke, Chap. xii. 14 to 48; That this is a
Law of the Divine Providence, may be confirmed
by many Circumfl:ance.s froin the fpiritual World ;
moll: People, when they come into that \Vorld after
D~ath, defire to know their Lot, but it i-s anfwered
them, that if they ha-ve lived well, their Lot is in
H eaven, if they have lived ill, in Hell: But foraf-
much as all are afraid of Hell~ even the Wicked,
they afk what they are to do, and what they are to ·
'believe, that they rnay go to Heaven; it is anfwered
them, that they may do and believe as they will, but
that they are to know, that in HeH they neither do
· what is good nor think what is true, but only in
Heaven; inquire what is good and what is true,
and think the one and do the other, if you are able;
l thus it is left to every one to acr from Liberty ac-
cording to Reafon, in the fpiritual vVorld as in the·'
natural \Vorld, but as they aCl:ed in this World, fo
they aCl: in that, for the I.ife of every one continues
with him, and thence is his Lot, becaufe the Lot is
of the Life.
r8o. II. 'That if Man manifsflfyJaw the Di·vi'nt
Pro·vidence, be <u.Jould interfere with the Order and
Tenor ifits Progrejjt'on, and would,tervert and deflroy
it: That this may enter difl:inCl:ly into the Percep·
tion of the rationa! and alfo of the natural .Man, it
may be expedient to illufi:rate it by E'Xamples in this
Order. I. That Externals have fuch a Connexion
with Internals, that in every Operation they make
one. 2. That Man is only in fame Externals with
the Lord, and if he was at the fame Time in Inter-
nals, he would pervert and defl:roy all the Order and
Tenor of the Progreilion of the Divine Providence·:
But,
TnE DrVINE PRo\rrnENCE. 2.2p
,,
But, as was faiJ, thcfe P<lrticulars !hall be illufl:rated
by Examples. F1 RST : Tb.zt Externals ba·vefitch a
Conncxion <ccith lntcrntli.l, tbat in <·VCIJ Operation tley
make one: The Illuflration in this Cafe fhall be ta.
ken from fame Particulars in the human Body: In
the \Vhole and in every Part of the human Body
there are Externals awl Internals; the Externals
are called Skins, Membranes, and Coverings, the
Internals arc Forms v:uiouf1y compofeJ and contex4
tured of nervous Fibres anLl Blood-Velfels : The
Covering which infolds them, by Exfertions or Fi.
bres fent·out of itfelf, enters i:uo all the Interiors
even to the Intimates or inmofl Parts; thus the Ex·
ternal, which is the Covering, conne8:eth itfelf
with all the Internals, which are organic Forms con-
fifling of Fibres antl Vdfds : From which it follows,
that as the External a8:s or is a8:ed upon, the In-
ternals alfo aa or are acted upon, for there is a per.
petual Confafcicul<ttion of the YVhole. Only take
in the Body fome common Covering, as for Exam.
plc the PLEURA, which is the common Covering of
the Breafl, or of the Heart and Lungs, and exam.
ine it with an anatomicZtl Eye, or, if you have not
made this your particular Study, confult Anatomifls,
and they will tell you, that this common Covering,
· by various Circumvolutions, and afterwards by
Exfertions or Derivations from itfelf, finer anJ fi.
ner, enters into the inmofl [Subfl:ance] of the
Lungs, even to the fmallefl: bronchial Ramifications,
and into the Follicles themfelves, which are the Be-
ginnings of the Lungs: Not to mention its Progref~
fion afterwards by the Trachea to rhe Larynx to~
wards the Tongue; from which it is evident, that
G G there
ANGELIC \VrsDO.l\1 CONCERNING
\
there is a perpetual Connexion of the Outmoft
with the Inmofl:, wherefore as the Outmofl: aCls or
is aCled upon, fo alfo the Interiors from the lnmofl:
or Intimates att or are ac:ted upon : And this is the
Reafon, that when that outmofi Covering, which is
the Pleura, has either a Defluxion or Inflammation,
or is full of Ulcers, the Lungs labour from their in-
moil: [Parts,] and if the Difeafe increafes, all Ac-
tion of the L\mgs ceafes, and the Man dies. It is
the fame in every other Part of the Body, as with
the PERITONJEUM, the common Covering of all
the abdominal Vifcera ; as alfo with the Coverings
about each, as with the Sromach, the Liver, the
Pancreas, the Spleen, the lntefl:ines, the Mefentery,
the Kidneys, and with the Organs of Genera-
tion in both Sexes ; take any of thefe Parts, and
either examine it yourfelf and you will fee, or con-
fult thofe who are ik!lled in that Science, and you
will hear ) as for Example, take the Liver, and
you will find that there is a Connexion of the
Peritomeuri1 with the Covering of that Vifcus, and
by that Covering with its inmofl: [Subfl:ance,] for
there are perpetual Exfertions thence, and Infer-
tions towards the Interiors, and thus Continuations
to the inmofl: [Parts,] and thence a Confafciation
of the ·whole, which is fu::h, that when the Cover-
ing aCls or is aCled upon, the whole Form in like
Manner aCt:s or is :-.fred upon. It is the fame with
the refl: : The Reafon is, that in every Form, what,
is common and what is particular, or what is uni-·
verfal and what is fingular, by a wonderful Con-
junCtion aa as one. That the Cafe is the fame in
fpiritual Forms, and in the Ch~nges and Variation~
of
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. '243
of their State, which have Relation to the Opera.
tions of the \Viii and Underfhndirlg, as in natural
Forms and their Operations, which have Relation
to Motion and Afrion, will be feen below. Now
forafmuch as Man, in fome external Operations, is
together with the Lord (una cum Domino,) and the
Liberty of ae1ing according to Reafon is not taken
away from any one, it follows, that the Lord can.
not aCt o'ihcrwife in Internals than as together with
Man in Externals : \Vhcrefore if l\1an doth not fhun
.and avoid Evils as Sins, the External of the Thought
and \Vill muft be vitiated and difeafed, and then at
the fame Time their Internal, comparatively like the
Pleura from its Difeafe which is called Pleurify, in
Confequence of which the Body dies. SECONDLv,
That if J..1an was at thefame Time in Internals, he
would pervert and dijlroy all tbe Order and Tenor of
the Divine Providence : This alfo we fhall illuftrate
by Examples from the human Body: If Man knew
all the Operations of both the Brains upon the Fi.
bres, of the Fibres upon the Mufcles, and of the
Mufcles upon ACtions, :md from a Knowledge there.
of were to difpofe all Things as he difpofeth Actions,
woultl he not pervert and de!hoy all ? If 1\lan knew
how the Stomach digefts, the Vifcera about it per.
form their Tafk, elaborate the Blood, and diftribute
it for the Bufinefs of Life, and had the Difpofition
of the fame as he hath in Externals, as in the Cafe,
for Example, of Eating and Drinking, would he not
pervert and deflroy all ? \Vhen he cannot difpofe
the External, which appears as one, but det1roys it
by Luxury and Intemperance, what then would be
1he C~fc if he were alfo to Jifpofe Internals, '"hich
arc
"
244 ANGELI~ \VISDOM CONCEF,Nn;G
are infinite ? \~therefore the Internals; left Man by
any ·will of his ihould enter into them, and make
them fubjeCt. to himfelf, are entirely eiempted from
his \Vill, except the Mufcles, which confliture the
Covering ; and moreover it is not known how thefe
ace, and it is only known that they do aa. It is
the fame with the other Parts of the Body, ·as if a
1\Ian were to difpofe the Interiors of his Eye to fee,
the Interiors of pis Ear to hear, the Interiors of his
Tongue to tafi-e, the Interiors of his Skin to feel~
the Interiors ·of his Heart to contraCt:, the Interiors
of the Lungs to refpire, th~ Interiors of the Mefen:
tery to dilhibute the Chyle, the Int~riors of th~
Kidneys to f~cret~, the Interiors of the Organs of
Generation to propagate,' the Interiors of the \Vomb
. '
to perfeCt: the Embryo~ and fo on, would he not by
infinite Meam pervert ·and defi:roy in thefe the Or~
der of Progrcffion of the Divine Providence ? That
Man is in Externals, is well known, as that he fees
with the Eye, hears with the Ear, tafl:es with the
'Tongue, feels \\ ith the ~kin, refpires with the
Lungs, contributes to Propagation, &c. : Is it not
enough, that he is acquainted with Externals, and
difpofeth them fer the Health of the Body and
J\1ind ? When he cannot do this, what would he do,
if he were alf~ t~ difpofe Internals ? Hence then it ·
may appear, that if Man manife!Hy faw the Divine
Providence, he would interfere with the Order and
'tenor of its Progreffion, and pervert and defi:roy
i~ . .
I 8I. The Reafon why it is the fame in the fpir-
itual Things of the 1'vlind, as in the natural Thing~
?~the Body, is, becaufe all Things of the Mind cor.
· · refllond
TnE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 245
refpond to all Things of the Body," wherefore alfo
the Mind aCtuates the Body in Externals, and in
Things general [in commu!2i] at its Pleafure ; it ac-
tuates the Eye to fee, the Ears to hear, the Mouth
and the Tongue to eat and to dxink, and alfo tC\
fpeak, the Hands to do, the Feet to walk, the Or-
gans of Generation to propagate ; the Mind not
only aB:uates the Externals to do thefe ·•.t hings, but
alfo the Internals in all their Series, the Ultim:1tes
from the Intimates, and the Intimates from the Ul-
timates; thus, while it aCl:uates the Mouth to fpeak,
it aB:uates the Lungs, the Larynx, the Glottis, the
Tongue, the Lips, and each diflinE\:ly to its Func-
rion at once, and alfo the Face conformably. · Hence
it is evident, that the fame which was faid of the
natural Forms of the Body, may be faid of the fpi-
ritual Forms of the 1\'lind, and what was faid of the
natural Operations of !he Body, may be faid of the
fpiritual Operation~ of the ~linp ; therefore as Man
~ifpofeth Externals, the Lord difpofeth Internals, of
~onfequence, differe~tly if Man of himfclf di~'Jofeth
Exter11al$, ~han if he difpofeth them of the Lord,
and at the fame Time as if of himfclf. The Mind
of Man is ~lfo in every Particular of its Form a
Man, for it i~ his Spi;it, which after Death appcar-
eth a Man altogether as in the \Vorld ; and confe-
quently there are fimilar Things in both :, Thus
what was faid of the Conjunction of Externals with
Internals in the Body~ is alfo to be underflood of
the ConjunCl:ion of Externals with Internals in the
Mind ; with this Difference only, that the one is
natural and the other fpiritual.
182. III.
246 ANGELIC 'VISDOM CONCERNING
182. III. Tbat if Man ma;,'ifdflyJaw the Divine
Pro-vidence, he would either deny God, or mak~· bin!fe!J
a God : The merely natural Man faith with himielf,
1Yhat is the Divine Providence ? Is it any Thing
dfe, or any Thing more, than a VJonl 2mong the
Vulga1: received from the Prieft ? \Vho fees any
Thing of it ? Is it not Prudenc!'!, \Vifdorn, Cun~
ning, and 1\hlice, from which all Things are effeCt~
cd in the \Vor!d ? Other Things deriYed thence,
crre they not Necefiities and Confequeqces ; and
~fo in many Cafes Contingencies ? Does the Di-
Yme Providence lie conceded in thefe T hings ?
I!ow can it in Craft and Cunning ? And yet it is
!ZLid that the Divine Providence operates all Things :
C.aufe me therefore to lee this, and I \vill believe it ;
can. any one believe it until he fees it ? Thus doth
the natural Man fpeak, but not [o the fpiritual Man ;
the latter, becaufe he acknovdedges God, acknowl,.
edges alfo the Divine Providence, and likewife feeth
it: But he cannot manifefi it to any one who thinks
cnly in Nature from Nature ; for fuch a one can-
:.not elevate his Mind above Nature, and fee in the
Appearances thereof any Thing of the Divine Prov~
idence, or conclude any Thing concerning it from
the Laws of Nature which are ·alfo Laws of the Di-
' "ine \Vifdom ; wherelore if he manifefl:ly faw it,
he would infufe it into Nature, and thus not only
wii it over \\ ith Fallacies, but alfo prophane it ;
and infiead of Acknow!edging it, would deny it,
and he who denies in his Heart the Divine Provi~
t1ence, alfo denies God. It muft either be thought
that God governs all Things, or Nature ; he who
thinks that G od governs all Things, thinks that
they
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 1-}7
they are governed by Love it!elf and Wifdom itfdf,
therefore by Life itfelf; but he who thinks that
Nature rrovcrns all Thinr.rs, th!nks that they are
u l) ...
governed by natural IIcat and natural Light, which
neverthclcfs in themfdvcs are dead, becaufe they
are from a dead Sun ; doth not what is really Ji,·-
ing govern what is Dead, or 'can that \vhich is dead
govern any Thing? If you think that '\vhat is dead
can give itfelf Life, you are infane ; Life mu!l
needs be from Life.
I83. That if Man manifefl:ly f.1w the Divine
Providence and its Operation, he woulll deny God,
appears as not probable, becaufe it feems that if any
one faw it manifefi:ly, he could not but acknowledge
it, and codequently acknowledge God ; but yet
it is altogether otherwife. The Divine Providence
never aB:s in Unity with the Love of Man's V/ill,
but continually again!t it ; for Man, from his he- '
reditary Evil, a!ways pants tmvards tl1e lov,:efl HeH,
'\vhereas the Lord by his Providence cont;nua!ly
with-holdeth him, and draweth him out thence,
firfl: to a milder Hell, then from I-Iell, and lafl:ly to
himfelf into Heann : This Operation of the Divi:1e
Providence is perpetual ; wherefore if Man mani-
fefl:ly faw this RetraCtion c:nd AbduCtion, he would
be an~ry, and account God as his Enemy, ;;:!d from
the E vil of hi$ Proprium [ o·,yn proper Life] would
deny him; wherefore left Man fhould know this,
he is kept in Liberty, wherr.:by be kno\vs no other
than that he leadeth himfelf. But Examples may
ferve for lllufhation : l\hn, by hcredit~ry Difpof:-
tion, defireth to become great, and alfo ddireth to
become rich, and in Proportion as thcfe Lo' es are
not
2118 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
•
not refhained, he defireth to be greater and richer;
and at l~ngth, the greatefl: and richefl: of all ; and
neither thus would he be quiet, but \vould defire to
become greater than God himfelf, and to poffefs the
very Heaven : This Cupidity lieth deeply concealed
in hereditary Evil, and thence in l\lan's Life, and
:n his Life's Nature. The Divine Providence doth
not t~.ke away this Evil in a Moment, for if it were
taken away in a Moment, Man would not live ; but
it is taken away tacitly and fucceffively, without
Mad's knowing any Thing of it ; this is effeCted by
this, that it is permitted Man to aCt according to
the thought, which he makes the Thought of his
Reafon, and then he is withdrawn by various Means,
as well rational, as civil and moral, and thus fo far
as he can be withdrawn in Liberty, he is withdrawn.
Neither can Evil be taken away from any one, ex-
cept it appear, be feen, and acknowledged ; it is
like a \Vound which is not healed, except it be
opened. If therefore Man knew, and faw, that the
Lord by his Divine Providence thus operates againfl:
his Life's Love, from which he hath his chief De-
light, he could not but run counter to it, and be ex-
afperated, c6ntend, fay harfh Things, and at length
out of his own Evil remove the Operation of the
Di\'ine ProYidence, by denying it, and thus denying
Gall ; efpeciJlly if he faw his Succcfs oppofed, him-
felf call down from Dignity, and deprived of Opu-
lence. It is however to be obferved, that the Lord
never withholdeth Man from feeking after Hon-
ours, and acquiring vVealth, but from the Cupidity
of feeking after Honours for the Sake of Eminence
only, or for the Sah:e of Self; in like Manner from
acquumg
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 249
I
acquiring Wealth for the Sake of Opulence onlr,
or for the Sake of the \Vealth ; but when he with-
draweth Man from thefe, he inrrodnceth him into
the Love of Ufes, that he may refpea Eminence
not for the Sake of Self but for the S<1ke of Ufes,
therefore that it may be of Ufes and thence of him-
felf, and not firfl: of himfelf and thence of Ufes ;
the fame is true in Regard to Opulence. That the
Lord continually humbleth the Proud, and exalteth
the Humble, He Himfelf teacheth in many Places
of the \Vord, and what he there tcacheth, that alfo
is of his Divine Providence.
184. The Cafe is the fame with other Evils in.
which Man is principled from hereditary Difpofi-
tion, as with Adulteries, Ftauds, Revenges, Blaf-
phemies, and other fuch like, all which can no oth-
erwife be removed, than by the Liberty of thinking
and willing them being left, and that fo Man may
remove them as from himfelf, which neverthelefs
he cannot do, unlefs he acknowledges the Divine
Providence, and implores that it may be effeCted by
Providence : \Vithout fuch Liberty and the Divine
Providence at the fame Time, thofe Evils would be
like Poifon fhut in, and not voided, which in a !hart
Time would fpread and occafion the Death of all
Parts ; and they would be like a Difeafe of the
Heart itfelf, from which the whole Body in a fhort
Time dies.
185· That this is the Cafe, cannot better be
known than from the Cafe of Men after Death in
the fpiritual \Vorld, where the greatefl: Part of thofe,
who in the natural \Vorld became great and rich,
and in Honours refpecretl themfelves alone, and alfo
H a in
250 ANGELIC \VISDOJ.\1 CONCERl'~ING
in Riches, at firfl: fpeak of God, and of the Divine·
Providence, as if they acknowleqged them in their
Hearts : But whereas they then manifefl:ly fee the
Divine Providence, and from it their final Portion;
which is that they arc to be in Hell, they conne&
themfelves with Devils there, and then not only de-
ny God, b~t alfo bbfpheme ; and then they come
into fuch a Delirium, that they acknowledge the
more powerful of the Devils for their Gods, and
affeCt Nothing more ardently, than that they them-·
felves alfo may be deified.
186. The Ground and Reafon why Man would
run counter to God, and den.y him alfo, if he man-
ifeflly faw the Operations of his Divine Providence1
is, becaufe Man is in the Delight of his Love ; and
this Delight confi.itctes his very Life ; wherefore
when Man is kept in the Delight of his Life, he is
in h~s Freedom, fo: Freedom and that Delight
make one : In Cafe therefore he perceived, that he
is continually drawn away from his Delight, he
would be exafperated againft him who wanted tu·
de!l:roy his Life, and wculd regard him as an Ene-·
my : In Order to guard againfl: this, the Lord doth·
not manife!l:ly appear in his Divine Providence, but
by it t:lcitly leadeth Man, as an imperceptible Tide
· or profperous Current doth a Ship: By this Means·
Man knoketh no other, than that he is confi:antly ·
in his own Proprium, [or 0\\'ll proper LifeJ for
Liberty maketh one whh this Proprh;m ; hence it
is evident, that Liberty appropriates to Man that
which the Divine Providence introduces, which
would not be the Cafe if the latter manife!l:ed itfelf ~
To be appropriated is to become of the Life.
.187. IV.
·THE DIVINE PROVIDENCl. 251 I
1S7. IV. 'l'bat it is given Man to fee tbe Divine
Pro'vidcncc on tbc Back, and not in tbe Face~ a!fo in a
fpiritual State, and not hz bis ntlfural State : To fee
the Divine Providence on the Back and not in the
Face, is to fee it behind and not before ; and to fee
it from a fpiritual State, and not from a natural
State, is to fee it from Heaven and not from the
'\Vorld: All they who receive Influx from Heaven,
:md acknowledge the Divine Providence, ahd efpe·
cially they who by Reformation are made fpiritual,
when they fee Events in a certain wonderful Series,
from interior Acknowledgment do as it ·were fee,
and. confefs a Providence ; thefe do not dcfire to
fee it in the Face, that i~:, before it exifis, for they
arc afraid lefr their own \Vill fhould ente: i:1to any
Thing of its Order and Tenor. Not fo they, who
do not admit any Influx from Heaven, but oniy
from the "World, ·efpecially they, who from the
Confirmation of Appearances in themfelves are
made natural ; thefe do not fee any Thing of the
Divine Providence behind or after it, but they
want to fee it in the Face, or before it exifrs ; and
forafmuch as the Divine Providence operates by
_. Means, and Means are effecced through Man or
through the World, therefore whether they fee it
before or behind, they attribute it either to Man o:r•
to Nature, and thus confirm themfdves in the De.
nial of it. The Reafon why they fo attribute it, is,
becaufe their Underfl:anding is fhut above, and only
open below, confequently fhut towards Heaven and
open towards the V\.,.orld, :md to fee the Divine
Providence from the \Vorld is not given, but it is
given to fee it from Heaven. I have fometimcs
thovght
252. ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
thought with myfelf, whether fuch Perfons, in Cafe
their Underftandi.ng was opened above, and they
faw in clear Day that Nature in itfelf is dead, and
that human Intelligence in itfelf is Nothing, but
that it is only from Influx that both thefe appear to
be, would acknowledge the Divine Providence, and
I perceived that they ·who have confirmed them-
feh·es in Favour of Nature and of human Prudence,
would not acknowledge it, becaufe the natural
Light flowing in from beneath wo1,1ld immediately
~1\:tingt}ifh ~he fpiritual Light flowing in from above,
1 89! The Man who is made fpiritual by the Ac,
knowledgment of God, and wife by the Rejection
of his own Proprium, in. the univerfal Vlorld, and
in all <J.nq every Particular thereof, feeth the Divine
Providence ; if he looks at natural Things he fees
it, if he looks at civil Things he fees it, if he
looks at fpiritual Things he fees it, and this
as well in the fimultaneous as the fucceffive
Order of Things, in Ends, in Caufes, in EffeB:s,
~n Ufes, in Forms, in things great and fmall; efpe~
cially in the Salvation of Men, as that Jehovah gave
the '\Vprd, that by it he taught Men concerning
God, concerning Heaven and Hell, concerning Life
eternal, and that he came into the World Himfelf,
that he might redeem and favc Men: Thefe anq
more fuch Things, and the Divine Providence in
them, doth l\lan fee froni fpiritual Light in natural
Light. But the merely natural Man fees N athing
of thefe Things ; he is like one who beholds a mag-
nificent Temple, and hears a Preacher' illuminated
in DiYine Things, ~nd faith when at Home, that he
faw Nothing but a Stone Building, and heard Noth-
ing P'!lt articulat~ founds; Or he is like a near~
fighted
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. ZS3
lighted Man \vho goeth into a garden furnifhed
with all Kinds of Fruits, and then cometh Home
and declareth that he only faw a Wood and Trees:
Such alfo after Death, when they become Spirits,
in Cafe they are taken up into the Angelic Heaven,
where all Things are in Forms reprefentative of
Love and \Vifdom, do not fee any Thing of fuch
Objeas, or even of their Exifl:ence ; as I have feen
the Cafe with feveral who denied the Divine Prov-
idence.
190. There are many confl:ant [or fixed] Things;
which were created, in Order that Things incon-
fiant [or unfixed] might exifl: ; confl:ant Things are
the ftated Times of the Rifing arrd Setting of the
Sun and Moon, and alfo of the Stars; the Darken-
ing of them by Interpofitions, \vhich are called E-
clipfes; Heats and Lights from them; the Seafons.
of the Year, \vhich are called Spring, Summer, Au-
tumn, and "\:Vinter; and the Times of. the Day,
which are the Morning, Noon, Evening, and Night;
alfo the Atmofpheres, Waters, and Earths confider-
ed in themfelves; the vegetative Faculty in the veg-
etable Kingdom, and together with this the pro-
lific Faculty in the animal Kingdom ; likewife the
Things which are confl:antly produced from thefe,
when they are put in Aaion according to the Laws
of Order. Thefe and many other Things are pro-
vided by Creation, that Things infinitely various
may exifl; for Variety cannot exifl: but in Things
confl:ant, flated, and certain. But Examples will
illufi:rate this ; the various Things of Vegetation
would not exifl:, if the Rifing and Setting of the Sun,
and the Heat and Light thenc'e proceeding, were
not confi:ant: Harmonies are ofinfinite Variety, but
they
1.54 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
they would not exift, except the Atmofpheres in
their Laws, and the Ears in their Form, were con-
fl:ant: The Varieties of Sight, which are alfo infi~
nite, would not exifl:, except the Ether in its Laws,
and the Eye in its Form, were conHant; in iike
Manner Colours, except the Light were confhnt :
Jt is the fame with Thoughts, Speech, and AB:ions,
\vhich are alia of infinite Variety, and which would
not exifl:, except rhe organic Parts of the Body '.vere
confl:ant : Mufi: not a Haufe be conf!.ant, that vari..,
\)us Things may be done therein by Man? In like
Manner a Temple, that various Particulan; of Di~
vine \Vorfhip, Sermons, Infhutl:ions, and Medita-
tions of Piety, may be performed therein? and fo
in other Things. As to \vhat relates t.o the Varie..
ties themfelves, which are produced in Things con-,
:fl:ant, fiated, ;md certain, they go on ad Ir!finitum,
and have no End, and yet there never exifl:s one
entirely the fame with another, in dl and fingular
the Things of the Univerfe, neither can exifl: in the
Succe:ilion of Things to Eternity: Vlho difpofeth
thefe Varieties, which go on to Infinity and Eterni-.
ty, that they may be in Order, but He who created
Things confl:.ant, to the End that they might exifl:
therein? And who can difpofe the infinite Varieties
of Life among Men, but He who is Life itfelf, that
is, Love itfelf and \Vifdom itfelf? \i''Jithout his Di...
''ine Providence, which is as a continual Creation,
could the infinite AffeB:ions and the Thoughts of
Men thence derived, and thus the Men them..
felves, be fo difpofed as to make one, evil Affec-
tions ~nd the Thoughts thence • derived one
Devil which is Hell, and good AffeCtions and the
Thoughts thence derived one Lord in Heaven ?
That
TH.r: DrYIN!: PROVIDENCE; 255
'That the univerfal Angelic Heaven is in the Sight
of the Lord as one Man, who is the Image and L1ke.;
ncfs of Himfelf, and the univerfal Hell, is ia Oppo-
fition as one M:m-Monfter, has at Times been faid
and {hewn before. Thefe obfervations are made;
becaufe fame natural Men, even from Things con-
ftant and ftated, whi'ch are Necefiities to the End
. ,
that various Things may exift in them, catch at
Arguments ia their Delirium in Favour of Nature
and Self-derived Prudence;
That Self-derived Prudence is Nothi1~r;,
. and on{y appears as ifit was, and aljo
ozfght _
.fo t~ apf1ear ). but.that the Di-
vzne Provzdence from Tlzzngs the mofl
particular is univerjal.
J:!}I.THAT Self-derived Prudence is Nothing,
is altogether contrary to Appearance, and
therefore con!rary to the Belief of many; and fince
this is the Cafe, no one, who from Appearance is
in the Belief that human Prudence does every
Thing, can be convinced but by Reafons of deeper
Invefl:igation, which are to be taken from Caufes ;
fuch Appearance is an Effed:, and its Cauf~s difcov-
er whence it is. In this preliminary Part we fhall
fay Something of the common Opinion concerning
this l\bttcr : Contrary to Appearance is this Tenet
which the Church teacheth, that Love and Faith
are
256 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
are not from Man but from God, as alfo \:Vifdom
and Intelligence, therefore Prudence likewife, anct
in general every Thing good and true ; when this
Tenet is received, it mufl: alfo be received, that Self·
derived Prudence is Nothing, but only appears as if
it was ; Prudence is from no other Source but from
Intelligence and Wifdom7 and thefe two are from
no other Source but from the Underfl:anding and
Thought thence derived of what is good and true.
This is received and believed by thofe who acknowl.
edge the Divine Pro\·idence, and not by thofe who
acknowledge human Prudence alone. Either now
it mufl: be true what the Church teacheth, that all
vVifdom and Prudence is from God, or what the
\:Vorld teacheth, that all vVifdom and Prudence is
from Man: Can they be reconciled any otherwife
than by faying that what the Church teacheth is
true, and that what the \Vorld teacheth is an Ap4
pearance? For the Church confirmeth what it teach4
eth from the Word, but the \:Vorld' what it teach-
eth from its Propriunz [own proper Wifdom,] and
the Word is from God, and Proprium is from Man.
Forafmuch as Prudence is from God, and not from
Man, therefore a Chrifl:ian Man, when he is in De-
voti<m, prayeth that God would lead his Thoughts,
Intentions, and AB:ions, and alfo adds, becaufe
from himfelf he cannot ; fuch a one alfo, when he
feeth any ~ne doing Good, faith that he was in.
dined to it by God, and other fuch like Things :
Can any one fo fpeak, unlefs he then intetiorly be-
lieves it, and to believe it interiorly is from Heaven;
but when he thinketh with himfelf, and colleB:s
Arguments in Favour of human Prudence, he can
believe
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 257
believe the contrary, and this is from tlie vVorld:
But internal Belief prevai!eth with thofe who ac-
knowledge God in th..ir Hearts, \vhereas external
Belief with thofe who do not acknowledge God in
their Hearts, ho\vfoever they may do it with their
Mouths.
192. It -vvas faid, that no one, who E.-om Ap-
pearance is in the Belief th;1t l1umau Prudence~
does every Thing, can be comincet.l but by Rea-
fans of deeper Invefl:igation, which arc to be de-
duced from Caufcs ; wherefore that Reafons de-
duced from Caufes may be evident to the Uuder-
fianding, it may be expedient to prefent them in
their Order, which fhall be as follows. I. That
all the Thoughts of a Man are from the AffeCtions
of his Life's Love, and tbat there do not, neitht:r
can e;.'Ciil, any Thoughts at all, without thofe Af-
feCl:ions. II. That the AffeCl:ions of a Man's Life's
Love are known to the Lord only. III. That the
AffeCl:ions of the Life's Love of Man are ted of
the Lord by his Divine Providence, and in fuch
Cafe at the fame Time his Thoughts, from which
human Prudence is derived. IV. That the Lord
by his Divine Providence compounc!eth the Af..
feCl:ions of the whole human Race into one Form,
which is Human. V. That thence Heaven and
Hell, which are from the humaa Kace, arc ia fuch
a Fon11. VI. That they who ha\'e acknowledged
Nature alone, and human Prudence alone, con-
fiitute Hell ; and they who have ackaovdedged
God, and his Divine Providence, conftitute Heav-
_
en. VII. That all thefe Things cannot be dll:El:cd,
I I unlef.s
258 ANGELIC \VrsDOM CONCERNING
unlefs it appears to Man that he thinketh and dif-
,Pofeth Things from Himfelf.
19,3-- I. 'That all the 'Thoughts of a Afan are from
the .Ajjee?ions of hh Life's Love, and that there d~
not, neither can exjjl, any 'Thoughts at all, without thofe
A..ff~Bions. \Vhat the Life's Love is, and what the
Affetlions and Thoughts thence derived, and the
Senfations and ACtions therein grounded, which
exifl in the Body,. are in their Effence, was fhewn:
above in this Treatife, and alfo in that which is;
called ANGELIC \VISDOI\1 CONCERNING THE DI-
VINE LovE AND TI-IE DIVINE "\VIsnoM, p~rticu­
larly in Part the Firfl and Part the Fifth ; now
whereas the Caufes, from which human Prudence
flows as an EffeCt, are from thefe Things, it is
nece!fary that fome of them !hould be adduced here·
alfo : For the Things which are written in another
!)lace, cannot be connetl:ed fo continuoufly with the
Things which are written after them, -as if the fame
are recalled and placed in Sight. Above in this
Treatife, and in that before mentioned concerning
THE DIVINE LovE AND THE DIVINE \V'IsDoM, it
is demonfirated, that in the Lord there is Divine
Love. and Divine Wifdom, and that thefe two are
Life itfdf, and that from thefe two Man hath '\i\Till
and Underfranding, from the Divine Love Will~
and from the Divine Wifdcom Underflanding; and
that to thefe two Principles the Heart and Lungs
correfpond in the Body_
; and that thence it n1ay
- appear, that as the Pulfation of the Heart, together
with the Refpiration of the Lungs, governs the
whole Man as to his· Body, fo the Will, together
with the Underfianding, governs the whole Man as
to
TnE DIVINE PROVIDENCl!. 259
to his 1\'lind ; and that thus there are two Principles
of Life in every Man, one natural and the other
fpiritual, and that the natural Principle of Life is. the
Pulfation of the H eart, and the fpiritual Principle of
Life the \Vill of the Mind ; and that each adjoineth
to itfelf a Confort, with which it cohabits) and with
which it operates the Functions of Life, and that
the Heart conjoineth to itfelf the Lungs, and that
the \Viii conjoineth to itfelf the Underfi:anding.
Now forafmuch as the Soul of the \Viii is Love,
and the Soul of the Underflanding is Wifdom, both
from the Lord, it follows, that Love is the Life of
every one, and that the ~ality of fuch Life is ac-
cording to the Nature of Love's Conjunction }vith
Wifdom ; or what is the fame, that the Will .is the
Life of every one, and that the ~ality of fuch Life
is according to the Nature of the Will's Conjunc-
tion with the Underflanding: But on this SubjeCl:
fee more in the Treatife above, and efpecially in
THE ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING THE DI-
VINE LovE AND THE DrviNE \VJsnoM, in Part
the Firfi and Part the Fifth.
I 94· In the above mentioned Treatifes it is alfo
demonfl:rated, that the Life's Love produces out of
itfelf fubaltern Loves, which are called AffeB:ions,
and that thefe are exterior and interior; and that
thefe taken together make as it were one Dominion
or Kingdom, in which the Life's Love is Lord or
King : Moreover it is demonflrated, that thofe fub-
altern Loves or Affeaions adjoin to themfelves
Conforts, each its own~ the interior AffeCtions Con-
forts which are called Perceptions, and the ~xterior
Affections Conforts whkh are called Thoughts, and
that
260 A:::;GELJC 'V1SDOM CONCERNING
that each cohabits with its own Confort, and dif-
charges the FunCtions of its L ife ; and that there
is fuch a ConjunCtion of both, as is that of tlie.Ef-
fence ( PjfZ) of Life with the Exi.fl:ence of Life,
which is fuch, that one is not any Thing, but, in
C onjunClion with the other, for what is the Efl'ence
of Life, unlefs it exifts, and what is the Exi{i:ence
of Life but from the Eifence of Life? Alfo, that the
ConjunCtio:1 of Life is fuch, as is that of Sound and
Harn-:.ony, likewife of Sound and Speech, in gener-
d fuch as is that of the Pulfation of the Heart and
the Rcfpiration of the Lungs ; which Conjuncrion
is fuch, that one without the other is not any Thing,
and that one by Conjuncrion with the other becomes
Something : Conjunctions muil either b~ in them,
or are produced by them : As for Example, in the
Cai'e of Sound ; he who thinks that Sound is any
Thing, unlefs there be Something in it which dif-
tingui{hes, is mifbken : Sound alfo correfponds to
.AffeCtion in 1\hn: and foralinuch as there is in it
alw2.ys Something ''- hich diHinguifhcs, therefore
from the Sound or Tone of a Man's Voice in fpeak-
jng is known the Af1eCtion of his Love, and from
its Variation1 which is Speech, is known his
Thought: Hence it is, that the wifer Angels, bare-
]y from the Sound or Tone of Voice of him who
fpeaks, perceive his Life's Loves, together with
certain AffeCtions which are Derivations. 'I hefe
Things are adduced in Order that it may be known,
that there doth not (::xift any Affection without its
Thought, nor any Thought without its AffeCl:ion : .
But more m<!y be fcen on this SubjeB: aqove in
this Trc4tife, and in THE ANGELIC WisDOM coN,.
CERNING
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. ::!6!
CERNING THE DrviNE LovE AND THE DrviN.e
\VISDOM.
I 95· Now forafmuch as the Life's Love hath its
Delight, and the \Vifdom thereof hath its Pleafant-
r.efs, and in like Manner every AffeCtion, '\vhich in
its Effence is a fubaltern Love deri\'ed from the
Life's Love, as a Stream from its Fountain, or as a
Branch from its Tree, or as an Artery from its
Heart, therefore every AffeCtion hath its Delight,
and thence every Perception and Thought its Pleaf-
antr.efs ; hence it follows, that thofe Delights and
Pleafantneffes confl:itute the Life of Man : What is
Life without its Delight and Pleafantnefs ? It is not
any Thing animated but inanimate ; diminilh De-
light and Pleafanmefs, and you will gr'ow cold or
torpid; take them away, and you will expire and
die :-From the Delights of the AffeB:ions, and the
Pleafantneffes of the Perceptions and Thoughts, is
derived the vital Heat. Since every AifeB:ion hath
its Delight, and the Thought thence derived its
Pleafantnefs, it i~ evident whence Good and Truth
is, alfo what Good and Truth are in their Effence :
Good is to every one that which is the Delight of
his AfFeCtion, and Truth that which is the Pleafam-
nefs of his Thought derived therefrom : For every
one calleth that good, which from the Love of his
\Vill her feeleth delightful, am1 he calleth that true,
which from the \Vifdom of his Underfl:at}ding- he
perceiveth pleafant as therein grounded : They
both flow from the Life's Love, as Water from a
Fountain, or as Blood from the Heart: Each taken
together is like Tide or Atmcfphere, in which the
whole human :Mind dwells. Thefe two, Deli~ht
ar.d
262 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
and Ple~fantnefs, in the Mind are fpiritual, but in
the Body they are natural ; as exifling in both they
conflitutc the Life of Man. Hence it is evident
what that is in Man which is called good, and what
that which is called true: Alfo, what that is which
is called evil in Man, and what that which is called
falfe, m..mely, that is evil to him, which deflroys
the Delight of his AffeCtion, and that falfe, which
de!l:roys the Pleafantnefs of his Thought derived
thence; it is further evident, that Evil fr')m the
Delight thereof, and what is Falfe from the Pleaf.
antnefs thereof, may be called and thought good
and true. Goods and Truths are indeed Chang~
and Variations of State in the Forms of the Mind,
hut thefe are only perceived and live by their Del
lights and Pleafantneffes. Thefe Things are addu.
ced, that it may be known what AfFeCl:ion and
Thought are in their Life.
196. Now whereas it is the Mind of Man which
thinks, and thinks from the Delight of its Affeftion,
and not the Body; and whereas the l'vlind of Man
is his Spirit, which lives after Death, it follows, that
the Spirit of r~1:an is Nothing but Affeftion and
Thought therefrom derived. That there cannot
exifl any Thought without Affeftion, is very evident
from Spirits and Angels in the fpiritual \Vorld, for
all there think from the Affeftions of their Life's
Love," and the Delight thereof encompaifes. every
one, as his Atmofphere; and all are connefted there
according to thefe Spheres exhaling from their Af.
fec:tions through their Thoughts : Moreover the
·CharaCler and ~ality of every one is knovm from
the Sphere of his Life. Hence it may ::1ppcar, that
all
•
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 263
all Thought is from Affection, and that it is the
Form of its Affection. It is the fame with the \Vill
anu the Underfl:anding ; the fame with Good and
Truth ; and ·the fame with Charity and Faith.
197· 11. I'hat tbe AJ!ec7ions of a Afan's Lift's
L()'l)e are known to tbc Lord only. .Man knows hi~
Thoughts and thence his Intentions, becaufe he fees
them in himfdf; and fora[much as all Prudence is
from them, he fees that alfo in himfelf ; in thi~
Cafe, if his Life's Love is the Love of Self, he
~omes into the Pride of SeH:derived Intelligence,
and afcribes Prudence to himfdf; and colleas Ar-
guments in Favour thereof, and fo recedes from the
.Acknowledgment of the Divine Providence: The
Cafe is fimilar, if the Love of the ·world is his Life's
Love ; yet fuch a one doth not recede in the fame
Degree : From which Confiderations it is evident,
that thefe two Loves afcribe all Things to Man and
his Prudence ; and if they are examined more in-
teriorly, Nothing to God and his PrQvidence :
Wherefore when they happen to hear, that the
Truth is, that human Prudence is Nothing, but
that it is the Divine Providence alone, which gm·.
erns all Things, if they are abfolute Atheifl.:s, they
laugh at it ; but if they retain any Thing of Relig-
ion in the Memory, and it is affirmed to them, that
all '\Vifdom is from Cod) they do indeed at !ir!l
Hearing acknowledge it, but yet inwardly in their
Spirit they.deny it. Such particularly are Pricfts,
who love themfelves better than God, and the
\Vorld better than Heaven, or what amounts to
Jhe fame Thing, who wodhip G,:~d for the Sake of
Honours and lnterefl:, and yet preach that Chariq
anu
264 ANGELIC \VrsDOM CONCERNING
and Faith, every Thing good and true, likewife aH
\Vifdom, yea all Prudence, are from God, and
Nothi11g from Man. Once in the fpiritual \Vorld
1 heard two Prief!:s difputing with a certain royal
Legate [ Legatw Regni] concerning human Pru-
dence, whether it be from God or from Man, and
their Difpute was \Varm : They all three in their
He:uts thought alike, tiamely, that human Prudence
does every Thing, and the Divine Providence Noth-
ing : But the Ptidls, who were then under the In-
fluence of theological Zeal, fa!d, that Nothing of
Wifdom and Prudence is from Man ; and when.
the Legate replied, that at that Rate neither would
there be any Thought from Man, they faid, that
there was none : But forafrnuch as it was perceived
by the Angels, that thefe three were of the fame
Opinion, the Legate was told to put on the Gar-
rnents of a Prieft, and think himfelf a Prieft, and
then to fpeak; accordingly he did put them on,
and thought as he was defired, and then he declar-
ed loudly, that there never can be any Wifdom or
Prudence in Man, but from God, and defended
hi:nfclf with his ufual Eloquence, full of rational
Arguments: Afterwards they faid to the two Priefls
alfo, put off your Garments and put on the Gar-
ments of political Minifl:ers, and think yourfelves
fuch, and they did fo, and then at d1e fame Time
thought from their inner Selves, and fpake from
.A:rguments which they had before cheri.!hed in-
wardly in Favour of human Prudence againfl: the
Divine Providence : Afterwards thefe three, foraf-
rnuch as they were in a fimilar Faith, became inti-
mate
TnE DiviNE PRovinE~cr. '2Gs
nute Friends [Amici Cordis,] and entered together
into the Path of Self-derived Prudence, which leaJs
to Hell.·
I g8. It was fhewn ::1bovc, that Man hath not any
Thought, but from fome Atrettion of his Life's
Love, and that Thought is Nothing elfe but the
}i'orm of AiTettion : Since therefore Man fees his
Thought, and cannot fee his AfieCl:ion, for the lat-
ter he feels, it follows, that from Sight, which is in
Appearance, he concludes that Self-derived Pru-
dence does every Thing ; and not from AffeCtion,
which does not come into Sight, but into Senfa-
tion : For AffeCtion only manife{ts itfelf by a cer-
tain Delight of Thought, am! Pleafure of Ratiocin-
atipn concerning it, and then this Pleafure and De-
light makcth one with TJ1ought in thofe, who have
Faith in Self-derived Prudence from the Love of
Self or the Love of the 'TvVorld ; and Thought flows
in its Delight as a Ship in the Current of a River,
to which the Sailor doth not attend, but only to the
Sails which he expands.
I 99· A Man can indeed reflecr upon the Delight
of his external AffeCl:i:
:m, when it aCts as one '.vith
the Delight of any bodily Senfe, but yet he does
not reflea that that Delight is from the Delight of
AffeCtion in Thought : As for Example, when a
Fornicator feeth an Harlot, his Eyes fparlde with the.
Fire of I.afci\'ioufnefs) and from it he feeleth Delight
in the Body, but yet he doth not feel the Delight of
his Affection or Concupifcence in Thought, but as
Something of Cupidity in the Body : It is the fame
with a Robber in the \Voods when he feeth Travel-
lers; and a Pirate, in the Sea when he feeth Ships;
K K the
:66 ANGELIC \VrsDO~! CONCERNING
the Cafe i~ fimilar with others : That thefe Delights
govern his Thoughts, and that his Thoughts are
Nothing without them, is evident, but he thinks
that they are only Thoughts, when neverthelefs
Thoughts are Nothing but Affeaions compofed in-
to Forms by his Life's Love, that they may appear
in the Light, for all AfFeCtion is in Heat, and all
Thought in Light. Thefe are AffeCtions of exter-
nal Thought, which indeed manifefl: themfelves in
the Senfation of the Body, but rarely in the Thought
of theMind. But the AffeCtions of internalThought,
from which the external exifl:, never manifefl: them-
felves to a Man : Of thefe a Man knows no more,
than a Traveller fleeping in a Carriage doth of his
Journey, or than a Man feels the Circumrotation of
the Earth: Now fince a Man know"eth Nothing of
the Things which are tranfaCl:ed in the Interiors of
his MinJ, which are fo infinite that they cannot be
defined by Numbers, and yet the few Externals,
which come to the Sight of his Thought, are pro~
duced from Interiors, and the Interiors are regula-
ted of the Lord alone by his Divine Providence,
and thofe few Externals by the Lord in Conjunc~
tion with Man ; how then can any one fay, that
his own Prudence does every Thing ? If you were
only to fee one Idea of Thought difclofed, you
would fee more fl:upendous Things than Tongue
can utter. That in the Interiors of the Mind of
Man there are fuch infinite Things, that they can-
not be defined by Numbers, is evident from the in-
finite Number of Things in the Body, from which
Nothi!lg comes to the Sight and Senfe, but ACtion
:itlone in much Simplicity, to which neverthelefs
., concur
TH.E DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 267
concur Thoufands of moving or mufcular Fibres,
Thoufands of nervous Fibres, Thoufands of Blood-
Veffels, and Thoufands of pulmonary Air-Veffels,
which mufl: needs co-operate in every Action,
Thoufands of Things in the Brains and in the fpinal
Marrow, and many more fiill in the fpiritual Man,
which is the human Mind, all the Things whereof
are Forms of Affections, and of Perceptions and
Thoughts thence derived. Doth not the Soul
which difpofeth Things interior, alfo difpofe Actions
by Virtue thereof? The Soul of Man is Nothing
elfe but the Love of his \Vill, and the Love of his
Underfianding thence derived; fuch as this Love
is, fuch is the whole Man ; and he is made fuch
according to the Difpofition in Externals in which
Man is concern1=d with the Lord : "Wherefore if he
attributes all Things to himfelf and to Nature, his
Soul becomes the Love of Self; but if he attributes
all Things to the Lord, his Soul becomes the Love
of the I"ord : And the latter Love is celefl:ial,
whereas the former is infernal~
2oo. Now forafmuch as the Dt:Iights of Man's
Affections carry a Man from Intimates [the Thingt
which are inmoft] by the Interiors to the Exteriors~
and at length to the Extremes, which are in the
Body, as the Airs and Currents carry a Ship, and
Nothing of them appears to Man, but what is done
in the Extremes of the Mind and the Extremes of
the Body, how then can Man claim to himfelf what
is Divine from this Circumfiance alone, that thofe
few Extremes appear to him as his own ? Still lefs
ought he to claim to himfelf what is Di'{ine, when
l:le knoweth from Tm: V.foR:e, that a Man cannot
take
•
a.68 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
take any Thing from himfelf, except it be given
him from Heaven; and from REASON, that that
Appearance is given him, that he may live a Man,
fee \vhat is good and evil~ choofe one or the other,
appropriate to himfelf that which he choofeth, to the
Intent there may be a Pofiibility of his being joined
reciprocally to the Lord, reformed, regenerated,
faved, and of his living to Eternity. That this Ap-
pearance was given to 1\hn, that he might acr from
l-iberty according to Reafon, therefore as if from
l1imfdt~ and not hang down his Hands and wait for
Infl.ux:, was faiJ and ihewn above. Hence follows
the Confirmation of that which was to be demon- .
il:rated Thirdly, '.That the Affiflions ofthe Life's Love
if A!ah are led ofthe Lord by his Divine Providence,
and in fuch Cife at thefame '.Time his Thoughts,from
v;bic/; ·human Prudence ii derived.
:zoI. IV. Tbat the Lord by his Divine Pro'l.•idenc~
cornpofeth the Ajfe8ivns oft/;e whole Human Race in-
to one Form, which is the Human. That this is an
Univerfal of the Divine Providence, will be feen in
the fubfequcnt Paragraph ; they who afcribe all
Things to Nature, afcribe all Things alfo to human
Prudence; for they who afcribe all Things to Na-
ture, in their Hearts deny God, and they who
afcribe all Things to human Prudence, deny in their
Hearts the Divine Providence; one is nbt feparable
from the other. But yet both thefe Sorts of Per-
fans, for the Sake of their Reputation, and for Fear
of lofing it, profefs with their Mouths, that the
Divine P10vidence is univerfal or general, and that
the Particulars of it refl: with Man [fint apud Homi-
nem;] and that thefe Particulars in their Comple~
;:~r~
THE DIVINE PROVlD.ENCl!. 269
me underfl:ood by human Prudence. But think
with yourfelf, what is univerfal (or general) PrO\·i-
dence, when Singulars (or Particulars) are fepara-
ted from it ? Is it any Thing more than a bare
\Vord? For that is called univerfal, which is form-
ed of Singulars conneCted together, as that is com-
mon (or a Community) which exifl:s from Particu-
lars : If therefore you feparate Singulars, what i~
the Univerfal in fuch Cafe, but like Something
which is empty within, confequently like a Surface
'within which there is Nothing, or like a Complex
containing Nothing? If it fhould be alleged, that
the Divine Providence is an univerfal Government, ,
;1.nd that not any Thing is governed, but only kept
in its Connexion, and the Things which relate to
Government [ilia quce Regiminis funt] ·are difpofed
by others, can.this be called an uni•terfal Govern-
ment? No King hath fuch a Government as this;
for if a King were to allow his s·ubjeets to govern
every Thing in his Kingdom, he would no longer be
a King, but would only be called a King, therefore
would have only a nominal Dignity and uo real
Dignity: Such a King cannot be faid to hold the
Government, much lefs univerfal Go\·ernment.
Providence with God is called Prudence with Man ;
as there cannot be faid to be univerfal Prudence in
a King, who hath referved to himfelf no more than
.the Name to the Intent that his Kingdom may be
called a Kingdom, and fo kept together ; fo neither
.could there be faid to be an univerfal Pro\'idencc,
if Men from their own Prudence were to provide
for every Thing. It is the fame with the Name of
J.Jniverfal Providence, and of univerfal Government,
as
';.70 ANGELIC \VlSDO.M CONCERNING
as fpoken in Relation to Nature, when it is under~
ftood that God created Nature, and endued her
with a Power of producing all Things from herfelf:
'Vhat is univerfal Providence at this Rate, but a
metaphyfical Term, or a mere Sound without any
Meaning? Neither do many of thofe, who attribute
to Nature every Thing that is produced, and to hu-
man Prudence ·
every Thing that is done, and yet
profefs with their l\Iouths that God created Na-
ture, think otherwife of the Divine Providence than
as of an empty Sound. But the Cafe really is, that
the Divine Providence exifl:s in the moil: minute
Particulars of Nature, and in the mofl: minute
Particulars of human Prudence, and by governing
thefe Particulars, governs univerfally.
2()2. The Divine Providence ofthe Lord is uni-
verfal from Things the mofl: particular in this Cir-
cumfl:ance, that he created the Univerfe, to the End
that an infinite and eternal Creation might exifl
therein from Himfelf; and this Creation exifis by
the Lord's forming out of Men a Heaven, 'Yhich is
in his Sight as one Man, who is the Image and
Likenefs of Himfelf: That Heaven, as formed out
of Men, is fuch in the Sight of the Lord, and that
this.was the End of Creation, was ihewn above, n.
27 to 45: And that the Divine in all that he coeth,
refpeCteth Infinite and Eternal, n. 56 to 6g. The
Infinite and Eternal, which the Lord hath RefpeB:
to in forming his Heaven out of Men, Is, that it may
be enlarged to lnfinity and Eternity; and thus that
he may confl:antly dwell in the End of his Creation.
This Creation is infinite and eternal, which the Lord
.provided by the Creation of the Univerfe, and in this
Creation'
'
'THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. Z7I
Creation he is confl:antly engaged by his Divine
Providence. Who that knoweth and believeth from
the DoB:rinc of the Church, that God is infinite
and eternal, (for the Do8rine of all the Churches ilz
the Chrfllian World holds, that God the Fatber, God
tbe Son, and God the Holy Ghojl, is Infinite, Eternal;
Uncreate, and Omnipotent; fee Atbanqfius's Crred}
can be fo void of Reafon as not to aflent, when he
heareth, that God cannot do otherwife than refpea
Infinity and Eternity in his great \Vork. of Creation,
(for how can he aCt otherwife \Vhen he aCts from.
Himfelf) as alfo that he refpe8:eth this in the hu-
man Race, out of which he fonneth his own Heav-
en? \Vhat elfe then can the Divine Providence have
for its End, but the ~eformation and Salvation of
the human Race? And no orie can be reformed of
himfelf by his own Prudence, but of the Lord by
his Divine Providence; hence it follows, that except
the Lord leads Man every Moment, yea every the
mofl minute Point of Time, Man departs from the
\Vay of Reformation, and perifheth: Every Change
and Variation of State of the human Mind changes
and varies Something in the Series of Things pref-
ent, and thereby of Things confequent; what then
muft it not do in the Progreffion to Eternity? It i~
like an Arrow fuot from a Bow, which, if its Direc.
tion at firft declines ever fo little from the Mark, at
the Difbnce of a Mile or more, would diverge im-
menfely; fo it would be if the Lord, every the leafi:
Moment, uid not lead and govern the St;te of hu-
man 1\linrs. This the Lord doeth according to the
Laws of his Divine Providence; agreeable to which
it is alfo n~cefi"ary, that it fho1,1ld appear to Man as
i£
'1.72 ANGELIC \VISDOM CO~.;'CERNING
if he led himfelf; but the Lord forefeeth how he
will lead (or guide) himfelf, and conftantly provides
accordingly. That the Laws of Permiffion are al-
fo Laws of the Di\·ine Providence ; and that every
1\hn may be reformed and regenerated ; and that
there doth not exifl any fuch Thing as Predefl:ina-
tion, will be feen in what follows.
zo3. Since every Man therefore lives after Death
to Ete~nity, and according to his Life here hath his
Place affigned to 11im either in Heaven or in Hell7
and both thefe, as well Heaven as Hell, mufl: be in
fuch a Form as to aB: as one, as was faid .before;
and no one can occupy any other Place in that
Form, but hi~ own, it follo\VS, that the human
Race throughout the whole ·world is under the
Aufpices of the Lord, and that eYery one, from his
Infancy even to the end of his Life, is led of Him
in the mort minute Particulars, and his Place fore-
feen, and at the fame Time provided. From which
Confiderations it is evident, that the Divine Provi-
dence of the Lord is univerfal, becaufe it governs
in the mofl minute Particulars ; and thar this is the
infinite anJ eternal Creation which the Lord hath
provided for Himfelf by the Creation of the Uni-
verfe. Of this univerfal Providence Man doth not
fee any Thing, .and if he did, it could not appear to
him any otherwife than as fcattered Heaps and
Collections of Materials, out of which a Haufe is to
be formed, appear to thofe who pafs by; but by
the Lord·it is feen as a magnificent Palace confi:ant-
ly building and enlarging.
204. V. That Heaven and Hdl are in fucb a
Form. That Heaven is in a human Form, hath
been
Tn.E D1vt:N.E PRoVIDENCE. 273
been made known in the Work concerning I-h:Av·
EN AND HELL, publifhed in London, 1758, n. 59
to 102; and alfo in the Treatife concerning THE
DIVINE LoVE AND THE DIVINE V\TisDOM; and
likewifc in fome Parts of this Treatife ; wherefore
it is unnecelfary to give it further Confirmation.
It is faid that Hell alfo is in a human Form, but it
is in a monflrous human form, fnch as is that of
the Devil, by whom is meant Hell in its whole
Complex : It is in a human Form, becaufe they
alfo, who are there, were born 1\Ien, and have
moreover thofe two human Faculties, which arc
called Liberty and Rationality, although they have
abufed their Liberty to will and do evil, and their
Rationality to think and confirm it.
!lOS· VI. That they who ha·ve acknowledged Na..
ture alone, and human Prudence alone, cor!fiitute Hell;
and they who have acknowledged God and his Divine
Providence, cor!fiitute Heaven. All they) who lead
an evil Life, interiorly acknowledge Nature, and hu~
man Prudence alone, for fuch Acknowledgment lies
inwardly concealed in all Evil, howfoever it may .be
cloathed and hid under Thing~> good and true ;
thefe are only borrowed Garments, or like Decora-
tions of Flowers, which peri!h, !hewed over Evil
left it {hould appear in its Nakednefs. That all who
lead an evil Life, interiorly acknowledge Nature, and
human Prudence alone, is not known by Reafon of
the above common Covering, whereby it is hid from
View ; but that they do neverthelefs acknowledge
them; may appear from the Origin and Caufe of
fuch Acknowledgment, in Order to the Difcovery
of which it may be expedient to explain whence
I. L and
274 ANGELIC \VrSDO.M CONCERNING
and what Self-derived Prudence is ; then whence
and what the Divine Providence is ; afterwards who
and what Kind of Perfons they are who favour the
latter, and alfo who favour the former; and lafl:-
ly, that they. who acknowledge the Divine Prov-
idence are in Heaven, and they who acknowledge
Self-deriv'ed Prudence, are in He!!.
206. \VHENCE AND WHAT Se!J-derived Prudmce
is; it is from the Propr!um of Man, which is his
Nature, and is called his Soul derived from the Par-
ent; this Proprium is the Love of Self, and the
Love of the \Vorld thence deri\·ed, or the Love of
the \Vorkl, and the Love of Self thence derived :
The Love of Self is fuch, that it refpeCl:s itfelf only,
and others either as vile, or of no Account ; or if
it does refpeel any Perfon or Thing, it is only fo long
- as they honour and \vorfhip itfelf; int,imately in
that Love, juft like the Effort in a Seed to fruCl:ify
and propagate, there lieth hiJ a Defire to become
great, and if poffible, to be made a King, and then
if pofiible, to be deified: Such is the Devil, becaufe
he is the very Love of Self, and is fuch that he
adores himfelf, and does not favour any one \vho
doth not alfo adore him ; · another Devil like him-
felf he hates, becaufe he wifheth to be adored alone.
Forafmuch as no Love can exifl: without its Con.
fort, and the Confort of Love or of the W'ill in
Man is calleJ the Underfl:anding; when the Love
of Self infpires its Love into the Underflanding its
Confort, it there becomes Conceit, which is the
Conceit of Self-derived Intelligence, from which
Self-derived Prudence proceeds. Now' forafmuch
as the Love of Self defires to be fole Lord of the
World,
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 275
'\Vorld, confequently a God, therefore the Concu-
pifcences of Evil, which are Derivations thence,
ha\'e Life.. in themfelves from it, as have alfo the
l~erceptions of Concupifcences, which are all Sorts
of Craft and Cunning; in like Manner alfo have
the Delights of Concupifcences which are Evils,
and their Thoughts which arc Falfes: They are all
like Servants and Miniilers of their Lord, :md ~a at
his Pleafure, not knowing that they do not au, but
are :1B:ed upon, for they are aCl:ed upon by the Lo\'e
of Self through the Conceit of Self-derived Intelli-
gence: Hence it is, that in evc;-y Evil, by Yirtue of
its Origin, Self-deri·.·ed Prudence lies concealed.
The Reafon why an Acknowledgment of Nature
alone alfo lies concealed therein, is, becaufe Self-
Love hath clofed up the Sky-Light of its Houfe,
( Feneflram 'Tctli Jui) by which there is an open
Communication with Heaven, and alfo the Side
'Vindows, left it {houlcl fee anJ hear that the Lord
alone governeth all Things, and that Nature in her-
felf is void of Life, and that the Proprium of Man is
Hell, and confequently th:1t the Love of the Propri-
um is the Devil; and then having fhut th~ Win-
dows it is in the Dark, and there maketh a Fire for
itfelf, by Y>hich it fitteth down with its Confort, and
they reafon like Friends, in Favour ofNJture againft
God, and in Favour of Sdf-derived Prudence againft
the Divine Providence.
207. \VHENCE AND WHAT the Di·vine Provi-
dence is; it is the Divine Operation in the Man,
who rcmoveth the LoYe o(Self; for Self-Love, a.s
was faid, is the Devil, and Concupifcences and their
Delights are the Evils ofh!s Kingdom, which is Hell·;
thefe
~76 ANGELIC \VJSD0!-.1 CONCERNING
thefe being removed, the Lord entereth with Affec..
tions of neighbourly Love, and openeth the Sky-
Light of Man's Haufe, and then his Side Windows,
and caufeth him to fee that there is a Heaven, and
a Life afrer Death, and everlafl:ing Happinefs ; and
by Means of the fpiritual Light and fpiritual Love
at the fame Time in this Cafe, flowing in, caufeth
l1im to acknowledge, that God by his Divine Prov-
idence governeth all Things.
2o8, \VHo ANn· WHAT Kind ofPerfons they are
•whofavour the !{ltter, cmd a!fo whofavour tbeformer~
They who ;1cknowledge God, and his Divine Provi-
dence, are like the Angels of Heaven, who diflike
to be led of themfelves, and love to be led of the
I~ord ; a Sign that they are led of the Lord, is, that
they loYe their Neighbour. But they who ac-
knowledge" Natl1re. and their own Prudence, are
like infernal Spirits, who diflike 'to be led of the
Lord, and love to be led of themfelves : Thefe, if
they be Perfons of DiftinCl:ion in a Kingdom, de-
fire to have Dominion in all Things: So alfo if they
be Prirnate~ of rhe ~burch : If they are Judges,
they pervert Judgment, and exercife Dominion over
the Laws : If they are Men of Learning, they ap.
ply Scientifics to confirm the Proprium of Man and
Nature : If they are Merchants, they aaas Thieves:
If Hufbandmen, as Robbers. They are all En-
emies of God, and Deriders of the Divin~ Provi-
dence,
zo9. It is wonderful, that when Heaven is open-
ed to fuch, and they ;J.re· told they are mad, and it
is alfo made manifefl: to their Perception that they
are fo, which is done by Influx and lllumination)
fiil!
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 277
fl:ill out of Indignation they fl)ut Heaven again!l:·
themfelves, and look down to the Earth, which is.
over Hell : This is the Cafe with fuch of them in.
the fpiritual World, as are frill out of Hell, and yet
of fuch a Difpofition ; from which Circumfi:ance is
evidenced the Error of thofe who think, if 1 were
to fee Heaven, and hear the Angels fpeak to me, I
fhould acknowledge; but their Underfi:anding does
acknowledge, yet if their \iVill does.not at the fame
Time, they do not acknowledge notwithfi:anding;
for the Love of the \Viii infpires (or infufes) into
the U nderfi:anding whatfoever it choofes, and not
rvice rvetfa, yea it obliterates every Thing in the
Underfl:anding which is not from itfelf.
2 I o. VII. 'That all thife 'Things cannot be c.f!eB-
ed, unlifs it appears to 1\!Jan that he tbinketh and dijpo-
ftth from hin!felf. That in Cafe it did not appear to
l\1an, as if he lived from himfelf, and thus thought
and wjlled, fpake and aB:ed· as from himfelf, Man
would not be Man, is fully demonfi:rated in the pre-
ceding Pages : Hence it follows, that if Man doth
not difpofe, as if from his own Prudence, aU Things
appertaining to his FunB:ion and Life, he cannot be
guided and regulated by the Divine Providence;
for he would be like one fi:anding with his Hands
hanging do\'..-n, his Mouth open, his Eyes {hut, and
his Breath in drawn, in ExpeB:ation of lnfiux, there-
fore he would divefi: hirnfelf of Humanity, which
confifl:s in the Perception and Senfation, that he
lives, thinks, wills, fpeaks, and aB:s as if from him-
felf; and at the fame Time he would divefl himfelf
of his two Faculties, pberty and Rationality, \\-}Jt.:re-
by he is diftinguifl1ed from Bcafls : That without
fuch
278 ANGELIC \VrSDOM CONCERNING
fuch Appearance no Man would po!fefs the Recep-
tive and the Reciprocal Principle, or Recipiency and
Reciprocality, and therefore neither Immortality, is
demonfhated above in this Treatife, and alfo in that
on the DiviNE LovE AND THE DIVINE \VIsDoM.
Therefore if you defire to be led of the Divine Prov-
idence, ufe Pru'dence, as a Servant and Minifier,
who may faithfully difpcnfe the Goods of his Maf-
ter : Such Prudence is the Talent, which was given
to the Servants to traffic with, of which they are to
give an Account, Luke xix. 13 to 25. 1\htth. xxv.
I 4 to 3I. Prudence itfelf appears to Man as his
own, and it is believed to be his own, fo long as a
Man keeps ihut up within himfelf that mofl:. inveter.
ate Enemy of God and the Divine Providence,
which is Self-Love, who dwells in the Interiors of
every Man from his Birth ; if you do not know
him, for he defires not to be known, he dwells fe-
curely, and guards the·Door, left it fhould be open-
ed, and fo he :fhould be cafl:. out by the Lord. That
Door is opened by Man, by :fhunning Evils as Sins
as if from himfelf, with an Acknowledgment that
he doeth fo from the Lord. It is this Prudence
with which the Divine Providence aCls as one.
2 I I. The Rcafon why the Divine Providence
operates fo occultly, _that fcarce any one knoweth
that it exifl:s, is, that Man may not periili; for the
Proprium of Man, which is his Will, never aB:s as
one with the Divine Providence ; the Proprium of
Man hath an innate Enmity againfl:. it ; for it is that
Serpent which feduced our firfi Parents, of which it
is '"Titten, " I u·ill put Enmity between tbee and tbc
JFoman, ar.d betwcm tby Sco'd and bcr Seed, itJba/1
bru!fe
THE DIVI~E PROVIDENCE. 279
bruife thy Head," Gen. iii. I 5; the Serpent is Evil
of every Kind ; his Head is Self-Love ; the Seed of
the \Voman is the Lord ; the Enmity put between
them i:> betv;een Man's Self-Love and the Lord,
therefore alfo between the Self-derived Prudence of
Man and the Divine ProYidence of the Lord ; for
Self-derived Prudence is continually lifting up its
Head, and the Divine Provid~nce is continually
keeping it down. If Man felt this, he would be en-
raged and exafperated againfl: God, and would per-
ifh; but while he doth not feel or perceive it, he
may be enraged and exafperated againfl: Men, and
againfl: himfelf, and likewife againfl: Fortune, by
which he doth not perifh. Hence it is, that the
Lord by his Divine Providence continually leads
Man in Freedom, and when he is led in Freedom,
it appears no otherwife to Man than that he is led
by his own Proprium; and to lead in Freedom
one who is in Oppofition to him that leads, is like
raifing from the Earth a great refifling Weight by
Pullies, by which Means the Weight and Refift-
ance is not felt : Or as when any one is in the
Power of an Enemy, whofe Intention is to put him
to Death, which he then doth not know, and a
Friend condutteth his Efcape through unknown
\Vays, and afterwards difcovers to him the Ene-
my's Intention.
212. Who doth not talk of Fortune, and v.:ho
doth not acknowledge her, becaufe he talks of her,
and becaufe he knows Something of her by Experi-
ence ? nut who knoweth what !he is ? That !he is
Something, becaufe there is and does exifl: fuch ~
Thing, cannot be denied; and Nothing can be and.
exifl:
':z8o ANGELIC \VISDOl\1 CONC£RNING
exifl: without a Caufe ; but the Caufe of this Some..
thing or of Fortune is not known; yet left it fhould
be denied, merely by Reafon that the Caufe is not·
known, take Dice, or Cards, and play with them,
or co!1fult Players, which of them denies Fortune~
for they play with her and fhe with them !n a won-
derful Manner; who can oppofe her, if fhe is obfli.
nate ? Doth f11e not in fuch Cafe make a Jefl: of
Prudence and Wifdom ? When you throw the Dice
and fhufHe the Cards, doth 1~t not feem as if fhe
knew and difpofed the Evolutivns and Motions of
the Hands, to favour one more than another from
fame certain Caufe? Can this Caufe exifl: from any
other Source, than the Divine Providence in Ulti-
mates, where by Conflancies <\Ud Inconfl:ancies it
·deals wonderfully with human Prudence, and at
the fame Time conceals itfelf. That the Gentiles
formerly acknowledged Fortune, and that they of
Italy alfo built a Temple for her at Rome~ is well
known. Concerning this Fortune, which is, as
was faid, the Divine Providence in Ultimates, it
hath been given to know many Things, which it is
not permitted to reveal ; from which it was evi-
denced to me, that it is not an Illufion of the
Mind, nor a Sporting of Nature, nor Something
without a Caufe, for Something without a Caufe is
not any Thing, but that it is an ocular Tefl:ification,
that the Divine Providence operates in the mofl:
minute Particulars of the Thoughts and ACtions of
Man. When the Divine Providence operates in
the fmallefl: Particulars of Matters fo mean and
trifling, what mufl: it not do in the Particulars of
Things not mean and trifling, fuch as is the Bufinefs
of
of Peace and \Var upon Earth, and the E~finefs of
Salvation anJ evcriafling Life in Heaven !
2 r3· Butt know, t!"l:lt human l~rucknce bringeth
l)\'Cr the Rational (Faculty) to f1de with it, more
than the Di\'inc Providence, by Reafon that t!:e
latter doth not appear, :mel the former does: It can
more eafily be received, that there is ori.e fole Life,
\vhich is God, and that all 1\Jcn arc Rcci?ients of
Life from Him; a~ was abundark!y ih::wn before,
and neverthclcfs this amounts to the fame Thing,
becaufe Prudence is of Life. \Vho doth not re:l:.-
fon for human Prudence and Na~t:ne, when he rea-
fens from the natural or external Man ? \Vhc:cas
who doth not reafon in Favour of the Divine. Prov-
idence 'and of God, when he reafons from the fpir-
itual or internal Man? But write, I pray you, two
Books, (I fpeak this to the natural Man) one in
Favour of Self-derived Prudence, and another in
Favour of Nature, and fill them. with plaufible,
probable, and likely Arguments, fuch as in 'your
Opinion are folid, and when you bve done, put
them into the Hand of :my Angei, and I know
Yery well, that he \Vill write under them thcfe few
\VordsJ They are all Appear~rr:::es and EJ!acies.
That -
282 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
That the Divine Providence hath Refpefl
to Things eternal, and no otlzerwije to
temjJoTary 1/zings, thanfoJar as they
accm-d with Tlzings eteTnal.
214. THAT the Divine Providence hath Re-
fpeB: to Things eternal, and no other·
wife to temporary Things\han fo far as they accord
with Things eternal~ or make one with them, !hall
be demonfhated in the following Order. I. That
temporary Things relate to Dignities and Rich-
es, therefore to Honours and Emoluments in this
\Vorld. II. That Things eternal relate to fpiritual
Honours and Riches, which are of Love and '\Vif~
dom, in Heaven. Ill. That Things temporary and .
eternal are feparated by Man, but joined by the
Lord. IV. Th:1t the ConjunCtion of Things tem-
porary and eternal is the Divine Providence of the
Lord.
21 5· I. That temporary Things relate I~ Dignitiu
and Riches, tberefore to Honours and Emoluments in
this World. There are many temporary Things,
but yet they all relate to Dignities and Riches ; by
temporary Things are meant thofe Things which
either perilh with Time, or ceafe with the Life of
Man in this World only ;. but by Things eternal arc
meant the Things, which do not perifh and ceafe
with Time, therefore not with the Life in this
World. Forafmuch as all temporary Things, as
was obferved, have Relation to Dignities and Rich.
es,
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. ~8 3
es, it is of Importance that the following Points
fhould be underfto,od, namely, What and whence
Dignhies and Riches are : \Vhat is the Nature of
the Love of them for their own Sake, and what the
Nature of the Love of them for the Sake of Ufe :
That thefe two Loves are diftincr from each other~
as Hell is from Heaven : That the Difference be-
tween thefe Loves is difficult to be known by Man :
But of each of thefe diftinctly. FIRST : FVhat and
whence Dignities and Riches are : Dignities and
Riches were totally diffe~ent in the carlieft Ages,
from what they afterwards became in Procefs of
Time : Dignities in the mo!l: ancient or earliefl:
Ages were no other, than fuch as take Place among
Parents and their Children, which Dignities were
Dignities of Love,: fuil of Refpetl and Veneration,
not becaufe they received Birth, but InftruB.ion and
'Wifdom from them, which is a fecond Birth, in it-
felf fpiritual, becaufe it was the Birth of their Spirit:
This was the only Dignity in the earlieft Ages, be-
caufe rhen Nations, Families, and Houfes, dwelt
feparatdy, and were not formed into Kingdoms as
in modern Times: It was the Father of the Family
in whom that Dignity refided : Thofe Times were
called by the Ancients the golden Age. But after'
thofe Times. the Love of goveming, from the fole
Delight of that Love, fucceilively crept in ; and
forafmuch as Enmity and Hoftility again!l: thofe
wl~o would not fubmit, introduced them.felves at
the fame Time, therefore Nations, Families, and
floufes, from Necefiity colleC\:ed themfeh·es into So-
cieties [Cretus,] and fet over themfelves one, whom
at firft they called a Judgr~, afterwards a Prince,
· 'and
'284 AN&ruc· \VrsDOM co~~CERNING
and laflly aKin~ and a:1 Emperor : And then they
~egan alfo to fortify themfeives in To\vers, Bul-
warks, and Vlall3. From the Judge, Prince, King,
or Emperor, was difFufed, as from the Head thrdugh
the .:Body, a Lufl: of Dominion, which fpread itfelf
like a Contagion among many, and {'hence ::uofe
Degrees of Dignities, arid Honours cqnformable to
them ; and with them Self-Love, ;:md the Pride of
Self-derived Pn1dcnce. Similar \vas the Cafe with
the Love of Riches: In the mofl: ancient or e;u·liefl:
.Ages, when Nations and Families dwelt difl:inEtly
from eac~1 other, there was no other Love of Rich-
es than to poffefs -the.Neceffaries of Life, which they
procured for themfelves by Flocks and Herds, and
by Fields, Pafl:ures, and Gardens, Lom v1hich they
derived Subfi!l:ence : Among thdr Neceffaries of
Life were al!o reckoned decent Houfes, furnifi1ed
with all IGrids of Utenfils, and Jikewife Cloathing :
The Care and l\'Iana~2ment of all thefe Things was
the Occupation of the Parents, Children, Men-Ser-
vants, and Maid-Servants in -the Houfe. But after
that the Lo;e of Dominion beg;m to prevail, and
defl:royed this St{tte of Society, the Love of poffef-
ilng \Vealth beyond their Neceilities inv'aded .Man-
ldnd, and gre~v to fuch a Height, as to produce a
Deftre of po{ldJing the '\Vealth of all. Thefe two
l.oves are as it were connet1ed by Cmifar.guinity,
:for he who dcfireth to rule over every Thing, defi-
:reth alfo to poffefs every Thing, for thus ail Things
become his Servants, and he their fole Lord and
Mail:er : 'l his is evidently infl:anced in thofe of the
Popifh Religion, who ha,·e exalted their Dominion
even into Heav-en, to the Throne of the ~ord, upon
· which
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 285
which they have placed themfelves, and who alfo
covet the Riches of the whole Earth, and amafs
Treafurcs without End. SECONDLv : Wh,'lt is the
Nature of the Love of Dignities and Riches for tbeir
c<.un Sake; and what tbe Nature of the Love of them
for the Sake of UJe : The Love of Dignities and
Honours, for the Sake of Dignities and Honours,
is the Love of Self, properly the LO\'e of Dominion
grounded in the Love of Self ; and the Love of
Riches and Poffeilions, for the Sake of Riches and
Poffet1ions, is the Love of the \Vorld, properly the
Love of poffeiling the Goods of others by any Art
whatfoever : But the Love of Dignities and Riches,
for the Sake of Ufes, is the Love of Ufes, which is
the fame with the Love of our Nei2"hbour, for t!Jat
0
which is the Ground of Man's ACtion, or for the
Sake of which he acb, is his influencing End,
[Finis a quo,] ·and is firfl: or primary, and other
Things are Means, and are fecond~ry. \\Tith Re-.
fpeB: to the Love of Dignities and Honours for
their own Sakes, which is the fame as Self-Love,
properly "vith the Love of Dominion from the Love
of Self, it is the Love of Man's Proprium, and the
Proprium .of Man is all Evil ; hence it is that l\1an
is faid to be born to all Evil,·and that his hereditary
[Difpofition] is Nothing but Evil ; the hereditary
[Difpofition] of Man is his Proprium, in which he
is, and into which he comes by Self-Love, and prin-
cipally by the Love of Dominion grounded in the
Love of Self; for the Man who is principled in that
Love, refpeB:eth Nothing but himfelf, and fo im-
merfes his Thoughts and AffeB:ions into his Pro-
pnum ; lienee it is, that in the Love of Self there
dwelL;
286 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNIN(l
dwells a Love of doing Evil ; the Reafon is, becaufe
he doth not love his Neighbour, but himfelf only ;
and he who loves himfelf only, fees others a& with..
out himfelf, or as vile) or of no Account, whom in
Con1parifon with himfelf he defpifeth, ·whilfl: he
makes light of qoing tlwm Mifchief : Hence it
comes to pafs, that he who is in the l..ov~ of Do.,
minion groundeq in the Love of Self, fcrupl~s not
to defraud his Neighbour, t9 commit Adult~ry with
his Neighbour's \Vife, to blafpheme him, to. breathe
Revenge againfi: him even unto l)eath, to exercife
Cruelty tov•ards him, and the like : Man deriveth
thefe evil Difpofitions from this Circumfi:ance, that
the Devil himfelf is Nothing elfe but the Love of
Dominion grounded in the Love of Self, with whom
every one is conneCted or conjoined, who is princi...
pled in Self-Love, and by whom he is led ; and he
who is led of the Devil, that is, of Hell, is led into.
;:~ll the above Evils ; and he is continually led by
the Delights of thofe Evils : Hence it is, that all
who are in Hell, have a Defire to do Mifchief to
every one, but they who are in Heaven, have a De..
fire to do Good to every one. From this Oppofi,
ti;n exifl:s that Principle which is in the Middle, in.
which Man is, and he is therein as in Equilibrio, fo.
that he can turn himfelf either to Hell or to Heav•.
en t and in Proportion a~ he favours the Evils of
Self-Love, in the fame Proportion he turns himfelf
to Hell, and in Proportion as he removes thofe Evils
from bimfelf, in the fame Proportion he turns him•.
felf to Heaven. It hath been given me to feel what
and how great the Delight is of the Love of Do..
minion grounded in the Love of Self ; I was le~
into
TuE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 287
into it, in Order that I might know it, and it \Vas
fuch, that it exceeded all the Delights in the World;
it was a Delight of the whole Mind from its Inti-
mates (inmofl: Parts) to its Ultimates, but was only
felt in the Body as a certain Pleafure and Liberty
[lubens] [welling in the Breafl:; and it was alfo giv-
en to perceive, that from this Delight, as their Foun-
tain, flow the Delights of all Evils, as of Adultery,
Revenge, Fraud, Blafphemy, and in general of eve.
ry Thing that is wicked. There is a Simiiar De-
light in the Love of po!feffing the \Vealth of others
by any Art whatfoever, and in the Concupifcences
which are Derivations therefrom; but yet not in
the fame Degree, unlefs it be joined to the Love of
Self. But with Refpecr to Dignities and Riches
loved not for their own Sake, but for the_Sake of
Ufes, fuch Love is not the Love of Dignities and
Riches, but the Love of Ufes, to which Dignities
and Riches are fubb·vient as Means; this Love is
<:elefl:ial: But of it more in what follows. TmRDLY:
'That thoje two Loves are d~llinfl from each other as
Heaven and Hell, is evident from what hath now
beed faid, to which I will add ; that :111 they who
are in tbe Love of Dominion grounded in the LoYe
of Sdf, as to their Spirit, are in Hell, whofoever
they be, whether great or fma!l; and that all who
are in that Love, are in the Love of all Evils, which
if they do not com1r.it, flill ia their Spirit they think
them allowable, and therefore do them in the BoJy,
when the Confideration of Dignity and Honour, and
the Fear of the Law do not .prevent: And what is
more, the Lo\'e of Dominion gr_ouaded in the Love
of s~If intimately conceals within it Hatred againfr
Goti,
288 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNINC
Cod, confequently againft the Divine Things of the
Church, and efpecially againft the Lord ; if Perfons
influenced by this Love, acknowledge a God, they
do it only with their Mouths, and. if they acknowl~
edge the Divine Things of the Church, they do it
cnly for Fear of lofing Credit. The Reafon why
this Love intimately conceals in it Hatred againft the
Lord, is, becaufe it is the int;mate Property of this
toYe, to defire to be a God, for it worfhips and
adores itfelf aione ; hence it is, that if any one hon-
ours it fo much, as to fay that it hath Divine Wif..:.
dom, and is the Deity of the \_Vorld, it loves fuch
an one in its Heart. It is otherwife with the Love
of Dignities and Riches for the Sake of Ufes ; this
I.ove is cekftial, becaufe, as hath been obfenred, it is
the fame with the Love of•one's Neighbour. By
Ufes arc rr.eant Go0ds, and therefore by doing Ufes,
is meant to do Good ; and by doing Ufes or Good,
is meant to ferve others and miuifter to them; they
,x.·ho do fo, although tht:>y be in Dignity and in Op...
ulence, yet they refpea Dignity and Opulence only
as 1Vleans of doing Ufes, confequently of ferving
and miniftering. Thefe are they who are meant by
thefe \ Vords of tbt; Lord, " Wbofoc'l.!er 'Zt.!ill be great
among you, let him l•e your Min!Jlcr; and u·hofoc·vcr
'Zvill be chief among you, let bim be your Servant:,
Matt. xx. 26, 27 : Thefe alfo are tney, to whom
Dominion in Heaven is entrufted by the Lord, for
to them Dominion is the Means of doing Ufes, or
do!ng Good, confequently of fer\'ing, and when
Ufes or Good are the Ends or Lo\·es, then it is not
they who have Dominion, but the Lord, for all
Good is from Hi:!1. FouRTHl-Y: That the Di.f.
Jerrmct:
/
TnE DiviNE PRov!nENcE. ~s9
firence bet'1u::e:1 theni is djfficult to be !.:1to7.vn by 1\Ian ;
the Reafon is, becaufe mofl: df thofe who are in
Dignity, and in Opulence, alfo p~rfcrm Ufes, but
it is not known whether they,perform Ufes for the
Sake of themfelves, or for the Sake of Ufes ; and
the lefs fo, becaufe in the Love of Self and of the
Vvorld, there is niore of the Fire and Ardour of
performing Ufes, than in thofe who are not in the
Love of Self and of the \Vorld ; but the former
perform Ufes for the Sake of Fame or lntereft,
therefore for the Sake of themfelves ; whereas they
who perforrti Ufes for the Sake of Ufes, or Good
for the Sake of Good, fuch do not perform them
from themfelves; but from the Lord. The Differ-
ence between them is difficult to be known by Man,
by Reafon that Man doth not know whether he is
led of the Devil or of the Lord ; he who is led of
the Devil, doeth Ufes for the Sake of himfelf and
the \Vorld, but he who is led of the Lord, doeth
Ufes for the Sake of the Lord and of Heaven ~ and
all they do U:fes from the Lord, who fhun
Evils as Sins, but all they do Ufcs from the Devil,
who do not f11Un Evils as Sins, for Evil is the Devil,
ancl Ufe or Good is the Lord: Hereby and n.:> oth-
erwifc is the Difference known ; both in their ex-
ternal Form appear aLke, but in their internal Fornl
they are totally unlike ; one is like Gold which
contains within it Drofs, but the other is like Gold
which contains within it pure Gold : And one is
like artificial Fruit, which in its external Form ap-
pears like Fruit gathered from a Tree, when nev-
erthelefs it is coloured ·wax, which hath within it
Dufl: or Refin ; but the other is like excellent Fruit,
N N delightful
z9o ANGELIC vVISDOi\I CONCERNING
"delightful to the Tafl:e and Smell, which hath with..
-
in it Seeds.
· z 16. II. That Things eternal relate to Jpiritual
Honours and Riches, which are of Love and TiV!fdom
in Hca.-.;cn. Forafmuch as the natural Man calls
the Delights of Self-Love, which are alfo the De-
.Eghts of the Concupifcences of £\'il, Goods, and
alfo confirms himfdf in the Notion that they are
Goods, he therefore calls Honours and Riche~
Divine Blc:ilings ; but when this natural Man fees
·that the vVicked, as well as the Good, are ad-
Yacced to Honours, and promoted to Riches, and
frill more ·when he fees that the Good are in Con-
tempt and Poverty, and the Wicked in Glory and
Opulence, he thi:1ks with himfelf, ·what is the
1\leaning of this, it cannot be of the Divine Prov-
idence, for if Divine Providence governed all
Things, it would load the Good \Vith Honours and
\Vealth, and a:G1ict the Wicked with Poverty and
Contempt, and fo compel the ·wicked to aknowl-
edge that there is a God and a Divine Providence.
But · the natural :Man, unlef:; illurninated by the
fpiritual Man, that is, unlefs he is at the fame
Time fpiritual, doth not fee that Honours and
Riches may pofiibly be Bleffings ; and that poffibly
t_hey :nay alfo be Curfes ; and that when they are
Bleffings they are from God, and when they are
Curfes they are from the Devil ; that Honours and
"\Vealth are alfo given by the Devil, is known, for
thence he is called the Prince of this ·warid. Now
whereas it is not known when Honours and Riches
are Bleffings, and when they are Curfes, therefore
.it !hall be !hewn; but in this Order. 1. That
Honours
THl2 DIVINE PROVIDENCE~· ~9X
Honours and Riches are Bleffings, and that they
are Curfes. :::!. That Honours and Riches, when
they arc l3l.:!ilin6s, arc fpirin.1al and eternal, and
that when they arc C'.lrfes, they are tempor:uy and
p"ri!hing. 3· That tl:e Bonours and Riches,
' 'b. h arc Curfcs, in Co:npari!on with the Honours
an Riches \Vhich are Bldiings, are as Not]1ing to
en:ry Thi"z, or as that which in itfelf doth not
cxi:':, to that ;; hich in itfelf doth exiit.
z I 7. \Ve fhall now proceed to the Illufiration of
thefe three Points. FIRST : 'Tbat Ho11ours and
Riches 'are BldJings, and th.1t they are Curfes : Com-
mon .Experience tcftifies, that the Pious as well as
the Impious, or the Juft as well as the Uujufi, that
is, the Good as well as the \Vicked, arc in Dignities
and Riches ; and yet it cannot be denied by any
one, that the Impious and Unjufi, that is, the
\Nicked, go to Hell, and the Pious and Jufi, that
is, the Good, to Heaven : Fo!afmuch as t11is is
true, it follows, that Dignities and Riches, or Hon-
ours and Opulence, are either Bleilings or Curfes,
and that with the Good they are Bleffings, and
with the Wicked Curfes. In the W ark concern-
ing HEAVEN AND HELL, publifhed in London in
the Year I 758, n. 357 to 365, it is fhewn, that
there are Rich as well as Poor, and Great as well
as Little in Heaven, and alfo in Hell ; from which
it is evident, that Dignities and Riches, 'with thofc
who are in Heaven, in this \Vorld \Vete Ble11ings,
and that with thofe v. ho are in Hell, in this ·world
were Curfes. But whence it is th:J.t they are Blef-
fings, and whence that they are Curfcs, every one
may know, provided he thia!>.s a little on the Sub-
jeCt
'292 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING.
jefr from Reafon ; namely, that they are B!effings
with thofe w~o do not not place their Hearts in
them, and that they are Curfes with thofe who do
place their Hearts in them ; to place the Heart in
ihem, is to love ~elf in them~ and not to place the
Heart in them, is to lov~ Ufes and not Self in them:
The Nature and ~ality of the Difference betw.een
thefe two Loves, \vas explained above, n. 2 1 5 ; to
which may be added, that Dignities and Riches fe-
duce fome, and fome they d~ not feduce; they feduce,
'\·;hen they excite the Loves of Man's Pr~prium,
which i~ rhe Love of Self, and that this is th~ Love
of Hell, which is called the Devil, -~vas alfo !hewn
above ; but they do not feduce, when they do no~
excite that Love. The Reafon whv the Wicked as
. b. J
well as the Good are advanced to Honours and pro-
moted to Riches, is, becaufe the '\Vicked as well as
the Good perform Ufes, but the Wicked do fo for:
the Sd:e of the Honour and Interel1: of their own
Perfons, whereas the C ood for the Sake of the Bon-:
our and Interel1: of the Thing itfelf: The latter re-
fpeB: the Honour and Interefl: of the ~fhing itfelf,
?S principal Ca:ufes, and the Honour and Interefl: of
their own Perfons as infl:rumental Caufes; but the
Wicked refpeCl: the Honour and lnterefl: of their
own Perfons ~s principal Caufes, and the Honour
:md lnterefl: of the Thing itfelf as infl:rumental
Caufes : But who doth not fee, that the Perfon, his
Function and Honour, is for the Sake of the Thing
which he adminifl:ers, and not vice veifa? Who
doth not fee that a Judge is for the Sake of Jufl:ice,
a Magifl:rate for the Sake of the Community, and a
:King for the S~ke of the Kingdom, and not 'l,Jitf:'
'!!~rfa?
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. ~93
'Vet:fa? "Wherefore alfo, according to the Laws of a
Kingdom, every one is in Dignity and Honour, fuit-
able to the FunCtion which he difchargeE:, and the
Dignity thereof; and there is a Difference like that
between what is principal and what is infl:rumental.
He who attributes to himfelf, or to his own Perfon,
the Honour of the Thing he adminifl:ers, appears in
the fpiritual World, when the fame is reprefented,
like a Man with his Body inverted, having his Feet
upward, and his head downward. SECONDLY :
fl"hat Dignities and Riches, when they are Bldfings,
preJPiritual and eternal, and that when they are Cur..f
es, they are temporary and perijhing : Ther~ are Dig-
nities and R~ches in Heaven as well as in this \Vorld,
fqr there are Governments there, and confequently
Adminifl:rations and FunCtions, and there are alfo
1=ommercial Dealings [ Negotiatior.es,] and confe-
quently· Riches, becaufe there are Societies and
Communities [C~tus.] The univerfal Heaven· is
pifiinguifhed into two Kingdoms, one of which is
called the celeilial, the other the fpiritual Kingdom,
,and each Kingdom into innumerable Societies, great-
er and fmaller, all which, and in which all, are dif-
pofed in Order according to the Differences of Love
and the vVifdom therefrom derived ; the Societies
of the celefiial Kingdom according to the Differ-
ences of celefiial Love, which is Love to the Lord ;
and the Societies of the fpiritual Kingdom accord-
ing to the Differences of fpiritual Love, which is
Love towards their Neighbour: Inafmuch as there
are fuch Societies, and all who compofe them haYe
been Men in the \Vorld, and confequently retain in
them the Loves i~ which they were principled in
the
•
!
294 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
the \Vorld, with this Difference, that in another
\Vorld they are lpiritu:::.l, and that the Dignities and
Riches themfcl\'es are fpir~tual in the fpiritud
Kingdom, ~:nd ccleftial in the celeflial Kingdom, it
follows as a Confequence, th:.J.t they have gre~tcr
Di~mities and Riches than others. \', ho ha\'e greater
0 -
LoYc and \VifJom tb.n others, and thefe are they
to whom Dignities and Riches were Bleilings in
th:s \Vorld. Hence it may appear, \Vhat the 1\;:,
tu:e of fpiritual Dignities and l~iches is, uan~dy,
that they belong to the.Thing ;md not to tbe 1\:rfon :
The Perfon in'cteed who is in Dignity in Hcavm, is
in Magnificence and Glory, li!~e that of Kings up-
on Earth ; but yet they· do not re1:,ard the Dignity
itfelf as any Thing, but the Ufes, in the Fu:1&iou
and Adminifhation of which they are engaged ;
they receive indeed every one the Honours of his.
Dignity, but they themfelYes do not attribute them
to themfelves, but to the Ufes; anJ \vhereas all
Ufes are from the Lord, they attribute them to the
Lord, from whom they a.re derived : Such there-
fore arc fpiritual Dignities ;md Riches, which are
eternal. But the Cafe is otherwife with thofe to
\vhom. Dignities and Riches in this \Vorld were
Curfes; thefe, forafmuch as they attributed them to
themfelves, and not to Ufes, and forafmuch as they
did not defire that Ufes fhould govern them, but
that they fhould go\'ern Ufes, \vhich they only re-
garded as Ufes fo far as they were fubfervient to
their own Honour and Glory, are therefore in IIell,
where they are vile Drudges in Contempt and Mif-
ery; for which Rcafon, inafmuch as thefe Digni~
tics ::.nd Riches pcrii!1, they are c:J.Iled temporary
ar.d
THE DIVI~I: PROVIDENCE. 29S
anll perifning. Concerning both the latter and the
- former the Lod teacheth as follows, "Lay not up
for youri'elves Trcafure:s upon Earth, where l\Ioth
and Rufl: doth corrupt, and where Thieves break
throur,h and frc~l ; but lay up for yourfelvcs Trcaf-
ures in Hea\'en, where neither l\ioth nor Ruf!: doth
corrupt, and wh<.:n! Thieves Jo not break through
nor fleal ; for where your Treafure is, there will
your Heart be alfo," Matt. vi. 19, zo, :21. THIRD-
LY: 'That Digni:ics and Riches whicb are CUJjcs,
compared with the Di:;nitics and Riches wbicb arc
Blrjj'ings, are as Nothing to er.-wy 'I/)ing, or as tbat
cz.vbicb in i!fdf dotb not cxijl, to that whicb in itfclf
dotb c.-.:!fl. Every Thing which pcrii11cth anJ be-
cometh not any Thing, imvardly in itfelf is not
any Thing, outwardly indeed it is Somethin6, yea
it appeareth as much, and to fome as every Thing,
fo long as it lafls, but in itfelf it is not ; it is like an
OutfiJe, [Supe'.fcies] within which there is not any"
Thing ; or like: a Player who appears in a King's
Apparel only till the Play is ended : But that which
remaincth to Eternity, in itfelf is perpetually Some-
thing, therefore every Thing; and moreover it Is,
becaufe it doth not ceafe to be.
z r 8. III. Tbat Things temporary and eternal are
Jcpara!~d by A1an, but tbat they arejoined by the Lon;':
The Ground anll Reafon of this is, hecaufe all
Things appertaining ,to l\lan are tcmpora:-y, from
\vhich Circumfl:ance Man may be called temporary,
and all Things appertaining to the Lord a!"e eternal,
whence the Lord is calhl Eternal ; and temporary
Things are thofe which have an End and perifh, but
Things eternal are thof.:: which have no End, and
do
.
296 ANGELIC \Vrsbo~1 CONCI:Rii"ING
do not perifh. That thefe two cannot be joined to;;
gether but by the infinite \Vifdom of the Lord, and
therefore that they can be joined together by the
Lord, and not by Man, every one inay fee. But
that it may be known, that thefe two are feparated
by Man, and joirieq by the Lord, it !hall be demon~
fl:rated in the following Order. 1. What temporary
Things are, and what Things eternat z. That Man
is temporary in himfelf, and that the Lord in Him-
felf is eternal ; and that therefore Nothing can pro~
eeed from Man but wha:t is temporary; and Nothing
from the Lord but what is eternal. 3• That tem-
porary Things feparate Things eternal from them•
fclves, and that Things eternal join temporary
Things to themfelves. 4· That the Lord joinetlt
Man to Himfelf by Appearance~. 5· And by Cor..
refponc.lences•
' 219. But thefe Propofitions ate feveraify to be
illufl:rated and confirmed by themfelves. FIRST ~
H'hat temporary 'Things are, and what 'Things eternal :·
Temporary Things are all thofe Things which are
proper to Nature, and thence proper to Man :.
Things proper to Nature are efpecially Spaces and
Times, both fubjeB: to Limits and Terminations~
the Things which are thence proper to Man, are the
Things of his proper Will and his proper Under~
fl:anding, and which are thence of his Affetl:ion and
Thought, and efpecially the Things which are of
his own Prudence ; which things, that they are
finite and limited, is well known. But Things
eterntJ.l are all Things which are proper to the Lord,
and from him are as i~ were proper-to Man: Things
proper to the Lord are all infinite and eternal,
therefore
Trrt DtvrxE PRovrnExcE. . 297
th;:!rcfore without Time, confequently ,dthout
Limit and without E1rd : The Things wh:ch
thence are feemingly proper to 1\'Ian, in like
Manner are infinite and eternal ; but Nothing of
thefe is of Man, but of the Lord alone in him.
SECONDLY: 'Tbat Nlmz is tempo!Ylry in binife!f, and
that tbe Lord in Himfe!f is eternal; and tbat tberifore
l{othing can proceedfrom lvlan. but what iJ temporary,
and Nothing from tbe Lord but wbat i.r eternal. That
Man in himfelf is temporary, and the Lord in Him~
felf eternal, was faid above ; inafmuch as Nothing
elfe can proceed from any one but what is in him,
it follows, that from l\Ian Nothing can proceed but
what is temporary, and from the Lord Nothing but
what is eternal ; for infinite cannot proceed from
finite, and to fuppofe that it can is a Contradiuion ;
and yet infinite can proceed from finite, yet not
from finite itfelf, but from infinite through it; fo
on the other Hand, finite cannot proceed fran] in-
finite, and to fuppofe this is alfo a Contradiuion ;
yet finite can be produced by infinite, but this is not
to proceed but to be created ; on which Subject
fee THE ANGELIC \VrsDOM CONCERNING THI:
DIVINE LovE AND THE DIVINE \VISDOM, from
Beginning to End : \Vherefore if finite proceeds
from the Lord, as is the Cafe in many Things with
Man, it doth not proceed from the Lord, but from
.i\Ian ; and it may be faid to proceed from the
Lord through Man, becaufe it fo appears. This
may be illuftrated by thefe words of the Lord,
"Let your Communication be yea, ye:t; nay, nay;
for whatfoever is more than thefe, cometh of Evil,"
Matt. Y. 3i; fuch is the Communication. of all in
0 o the
~9? ANGELIC \VISDO~l CONCERNING
the third Heaven ; for they never reafon concern·
ing Things Divine, whether they be fo or not, but
fee in themfelve9" from the Lord, that they are fo
cr not fo ; Reafoning concerning Things Divine,
whether they be fo or not, proceeds from the Rea~
foner's not feeiag ·them from the Lord, but defiring
to fee them from himfdf, and that v.-hich Man
fceth from himfelf, is Evil. But yet the Lord will-
erh, not only that Man fhould think and fpeak of
Things Divine, but alfo reafon concerning them,
to the End that he may fee that they are fo or not
fo ; and fuch Thought, Difcourf~; or Reafoning,
provided it h2th for its End that he may fee the
Truth, may be faid .to be from the Lord in Man,
but it is from l\Ian, until he fees Truth, and ac-
knowledges it : In the mean Time it is fr'om thtt
Lord alone, that Man is capable of thinking,
fpeaking, and reafoning : for this he can do by
Virtue of his two Faculties, called Liberty anJ Ra-
tionality, which Faculties Man poifeifes from the
Lord Alone. THIRDLY : 'That temporary Things
Jcparatc 'Things eternal from tben!felvcs, a7td tbat·
'Tbings eternal join temporar)' 'Things to themfducs :
By temporary Things feparating Things eternal
from thcmfelves, is meant, that Man who is tem-
porary doeth fo from the temporary Things in
himfclf; and by Things eternal joining temporary
Things to themfelyes, is meant, that the Lord, who
is eternal, doeth fo from the Things ~ternal in
himfelf, as was faid above. In the preceding
Pages it was /hewn, that there is a ConjunCtion of
the Lord with Man, and a reciprocal ConjunClion
of Man with the Lord ; yet that the reciprocal -
ConjunCtion
· Tm~ DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 299
Conjunction of Man with the Lord is not from
l\lan, but from the Lord ; alfo that the Will of
Man is in Oppofition to the Will of the Lord, or
what amounts to the fame, that the Self-derived
Prudence of M:.m is in Oppofition to the Divine
Providence of the Lor.d ; from \vhich this Conclu-
fion refults as a Confequence, tn:1t Man, from his
own temporary Things, feparates from himfelf the
eternal Things of the Lord, but that the Lord join-
cth his eternal Things to the temporary Things of
Man, that is, joineth Himfdf to Man and 1\hn to
Himfclf: As this Subject hath been fully treated of
before, there is no Need of adding to it further
Confirmation. FeuR THLY : 'That the J,ord joinetb
Man to Himfelj by Appearances : For it is an Ap-
pearance that Man from himfelf lO\·erh his Neigh-
bour, doeth Good, and fpeal:cth Truth ; if thefe
Things were not to appear to a Man as from himfelf,
he would not love l)is Neighbour, nor do Good,
nor fpeal::. Truth~ therefore would not be ~enjoined
to the Lord : But forafmuch as Love, Good, and
'fruth are from the Lord, it is evident that the Lord
joineth Man to himfelf by Appearances. But this
.Appearance, and the ConjunCtion of the Lord with
l\'lan, and the reciprocal ConjunB:ion of Man with
the Lord thereby, are abundantly treated of above.
FIFTHLY : Tbat the Lord joincth !\!fan to Hin!fclf by
Corrifpondenccs : This is done by Means of the
\Vord, whofe literal Senfe confifls of mere Corref-
pondences ; that by that Senfe there is a Conjunc-
tion of the Lord with Man, and a reciprocal Con-
junCtion of Man with the Lord', is {hewn in TuE
DocTI:.INE oF THE NEw jERUSALEM ccNCERN·
INC
300 AN'GELIC \Vrsno!ll coNCERN"INC
nw TilE S"\CRED ScRIPTURE, from Beginning to
End.
, 220. IV. That the Conjuntlicn of Things temporary
and eternal in klan is the Divine Providence of the
Lord: As the Things herein implied cannot fall
within rhe•firfl: Perception of the Underfianding,
except they be firfl: reduced to Order, and unfold-
ed and demon!l:rated according to it, therefore the
Order thereof !hall be as follows. 1. That it is bv
Virtue of the Divine Providence, that Man by
Death puts off Things natural and temporary, and
puts on Things fpiritual and eternal. 2. That the
Lord by his Divine Providence joincth himfelf to
Things natural by Things fpiritual, and to Things
temporary by things eternal according to Ufes.
3· That the Lord joincth himfelf to Ufes by ~or..
refpondences, and fo by Appearances according to
Confirmations by 1\lan. + That fuch ConjunCtion
of Things temporary and eternal is the Divine Prov,.
idence. But thefe Points !hall be placed in a clear-
er Light by Explanations. FIRST; That it is by
Yirtue 'oj tbe Dh•bze Pro'Vidence, tbat 1\1m: by Deatb
puts qff 'lhings natural and temporary, and puts OIJ
'Things Jpirltual' and eternal : Things natural and
temporary are Extremes and Ultimates, into which
1\'Ian firfl enters, which is the Cafe when he is born,
to the End that he may afterwards be introduced
to Things interior and fuperior ; for Extremes and
Ultimates are Continents ; and thefe exifl: in the
natural World : Hence it is that no Angel or Spirit
was immediately created fuch, but that they were
all firfl: born Men, and fo introduced ; hence they
have Extremes and Ultimates, which in themfelve~
are
TIIE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. JOl
are fixed and !l:ated, within which and by which
their Interiors can be contained in their State of
Connexion. But Man firfr puts on the groifer
Subfl:ances or Nature, his Body collfifring of them ;
there however he putteth off by Death, and retain-
eth the purer Subfrances of Nature, which are next
to what is fpiritual, and thea thefc are his Conti-
nents. Befides, in Extremes, or Ultimates, all
Things interior or fuperior rcfidc together at once,
as was ihewn before in its proper Place ; wherefore
every Operation of the Lord is from Primaries and _
Ultimates at once, therefore in Full. But foraf-
much as the Extremes and Ultimates of Nature
cannot recci\·e Things fpiritual and eternal, for
'which the human Mind is formed, as they are in
themfelves, and yet Man is born that he may be
made fpiritual and live to Eternity, therefore Mall
putteth them off, and retaincth only interior natural
Things or Subfrances, which are convenient and
accord with Things fpiritual and celeflial, and fe:rve
them as Continents ; this is effecred by the Rejec-
tion of temporary and natural Ultimates, which is
the Death of. the Body. SECONDLY : Tbat the
Lord by his Divine Pro'vidcncc joincth 1-iin!ftlj to
Things natural by ThingsJpiritua!, and to Things tem-
porary by Tbings eternal according to Ufes : Natural
and temporary Things are not only Things which
are proper to Nature, but alfo the Things which are
proper to 1\lcn in the natural \Vorld ; both thcfe
Man putteth off by Death, and putteth on Things
fpirit,!lal and eternal correfponding to them ; that he
putteth on thefe according to Ufes:, is fully ihewri in
the foregoing _P:::;es. The natural Things ·which arc
proper
.T'
302 ANGELIC \VISDOM C'ONCERNING
proper to Nature, rebte in general to Time and
Space, and in particular to the ObjeCts which are
feen upon Earth ; thefe Man leaveth by Death, and
in place of them receiveth Things fpiritual, which
as to their outward Face or Appearance are fimilar,
but not ~s to their internal ~ality and Eficnce ;
which Subject alfo is treJ.ted of above. The tern~
porary Thing~, which are proper to 1\len in the.
natural \Vorld, in general relate to Dignities and
Riches, and in particular to the Necefiities of each
Individual, which arc Food, Cloathing,· and a Place.
to dwell in ; thefe alfo :J.re put away and left by
Death, and fuch Things put on and received, as are
fimilar to them as to their out\ovard Face or Ap~
pearance, but not as to their internal Q:rality and
E!Tcnce : All thefe derive their internal ~ality and
E!fence from the Ufes of Things temporary in the
\Vorld : Ufes are the Goods which are called
Goods of Charity. Hence it may appear, that to
Things natural and temporary the Lord by his Di~
vine Providence joineth Things fpiritual and eternal
according to Ufes. THIRDLY : That t/;e Lordjoin.
etb bi1J!ft!f to l!fes by CorrcJpondcnccs, and fo by Ap~
pearanccs accGrding to the Co7!.firmations thereof by
},fan : As this Point cannot but feem obfcurc to
thofe who have not yet acquired a clear Notion of
what Correfpondence and what Appearance is,
therefore it !hall be illufl:rated by Example and fo
explained : All Things in the \Vord arc mere Cor..
rcfpondences of Things fpiritual and celdlial, and
forafmuch as they are Correfpondences, they are
alfo Appearances ; that is, all Things in the \Vord
are Di\·ine Goods cf the Divine I.c·;c, aed DiYin~
Truths
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. J03
'truths of the Divine \i\Tifdom, which arc m.k.ed in •
themfelves, but cloathed in the literal Senfe of the
\Vord ; wherefore they appear like a Man in a
Garment, which correfponds to the State of his
Love and \Vifdom ; from which Confideration it
is evident th~t if a Man confirms Appearances, it is
jufl: as if he were to confirm that Garments are
1\'len ; hereby Appearances bec.ome Fallacies: It is
othcrwi[e if a Man fearches after Truths and fees
them in Appearances. Now forafmuch as all Ufes,
or Truths and Goods of Charity, which a Man do~
eth to his Neighbour, he either doeth according to
Appearances, or according to the Truths themfeh·es
in the vVord, if he efi:abli!hcs the Confirmation of
them in himfelf acconling to .Appearances, he is in
Fallacies, but if according to Truths, he doeth as
he ought to do : Hence it may appear, ·what is
meant by the Lord's joining himfelf to Ufes by Cor-
refpondences, aud fo by Appearances, according to
the Confirmations thereof by Man. FouRTHLY :
That fucb Cor.junClion ofThings temporary and eternal
is the Divine Pro<t•idence : That this may be prefent-
etl to the Underftanding in fome Degree of Light,
it may be expedient to illuflrate it by two Exam~
ples, by one which concerns Dignities and Hon-
ours, and by another which concerns Riches a~d
Poffeffions; both thef~ in their external Form arc
natural and temporary, but in their interual Form
fpiritual anJ eternal. Dignities with their Han~
ours are natural and temporary, when a Man per-
fonally refpeEts himfelf in them, and not the State
and Ufes, for then a Man cannot but think. interi-
orly with himfelf, that the State was made for him,
and
jo4 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
and not he for the State ; ·he is like a King who
thinks his Kingdom and all the Men in it are for
him, anti not he for the Kingdom and the Men of
which it confifl:s. But the fame Dignities with their
Honours are fpiritual and eterm.l, when a Man re-
fpects himfelf perfonally as fubfervient to the State
and to Ufes, and not them to him ; if he doeth this,
then he is in the Truth and in the Effence of his
Dignity and Honour ; but if the other, then he i~
in Correfponclence and Appearance, which if he
confirms i:1 himfelf, he is in Fallacies, and no other~
wife in Conjuntl:ion with the Lord, than they who
are in Falfes and Evils derived therefrom, for Falla-
cies are Falfes with which Evils join themfelves :
Such Perfons do indeed perform Ufes and do Good,
but from themfelves and not from the Lord, there.
f~re they put themfelves in the Place of the Lord :
It is the fame with Riches and Poffeilions, which
alfo are natural and temporary, as well as fpiritual
and eternal ; Riches and Poffe!Iions are natural and
temporary with thofe, who refpect them alone, and
themfelves in them, and in thefe two place all their
I;leafure and Delight ; but the fame are fpiritual and
eternal with thofe, who refpea good Ufes in them,
and in thefc an interior Pleafure and Delight ; with
thefe latter the exterior Pleafure and Delight alfo is
made fpiritual, and temporary eternal ; wherefore
alfo thefe after Death dwell in Heaven, and in Pal-
aces there, the Utenfi.Is of which are refplendent
with Gold and precious Stones ; which neverthelefs
they regard no otherwife than as Externals deriving
their Splendour and Tranfparency from Internals,
which are Ufes, from which they have effential Pleaf.
ure
Tzu DIVINE PRdVID.LNci\. 305
ure and Delight, which in themfelves are the Blifs
and Happinefs of Heaven: A contrary Lot is theirs,
who have refpeCl:ed Riches and Poifeffions folely for
their own Sake and for the Sake of Self, therefore
for the Sake of Externals and not at the fame Time
of Internals1confequently according to Appearances
and not according to their Eifences ; fuch Perfons,,
when they put off thefe Things, as is the Cafe when
they die, put on the lnternals thereof, \vhich, inaf-
much as they are not fpiritual, ·cannot be otherwife
than infernal, for either the one ot the other Princi-
ple is in them, inafmuch as both cannot be there
together, wherefore infl:ead of Riches they experi·
ence Poverty, and irtflead of Pofle!Iions Mifery. By
Ufes are meant not only the Neceffaries of Life,
- which relate to Food, Cloathing, an Habitation for
a Man's Self and his Family, but alfo the Good of
his Country, of Society, and of his Fellow Citizens.
Such a Good is Commerce, when it is the final
Love, and Money the )\<leans fubfervient, if fa ·be
the Merchant fuunneth and avoideth Frauds and
evil Arts as Sins ; nbt fa when Money is the final
-Love, and Commerce the Means fubfervient to it,
for this is Avarice, which is the Root of a1l Evils,
as may be _feen in Luke xii. 15, and the Parable
concerning it, Verfe 16 to 21.
PP 'That
306 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERl'HN'd
That l\1an is not let more interiorly into
the Truths of Fait!L and the Goods·if
Charil)', thanjojar as he can he kept
in them to the End of Life.
221. ITis well known in the Chrifiian World1
that the Lord willeth the S<:.lvation of all,.
and alfo that he is Omnipotent, \vherefore many·
conclude thence, that he is able to fave every one,
and does fave thofe who implore his Mercy, efpe...
cially thofe who implore it by the received Form of
Faith, that God the Father would have Mercy for
the s~ke of his Son, parricularly if at the fame Time
they implore that they may receive that Faith ~ But
that the Cafe is altogether different, will be feen in
the laft Article of this Treatife, where it will be ex-
p!ained how that the Lord cannot act againfi the
Laws of his Divine Providence, becaufe to act againfi
thofe L::tws, would be to aa againfi his Divine Love
and his Divine Wifdom, confequently again!l him..
felf; in the fame Place it will be feen, that fuch
immediate Mercy is not poffible, becaufe the Sal-
vation of Man is effeB:ed by Means, according to
which no other Perfon can lead Man, but He who
willeth the Salvation of all, and at the fame Time
is Omnipotent, confequently the Lord. The Means
by which Man is led of the Lord, are what are call..
ed the Laws of the Divine Providence, among which
is alfo this, that Man is not let more interiorly into
the Truths of Wifdom and the Goods of Love, than
fo far as he can be kept in them to the End of Life. ...
But ·
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 307
But that this may be evident to Reafon, it !hall be
explained in the following Order : 1. Th:tt Man
may be let into the \Vifdom of fpiritual :rhings, :md
alfo into the LoYe of them, and yet not be reform-
ed. 2. That If Man aftenvards recedes from them,
and runs counter to them, he profancth what iE:
facred. 3· That there arc feveraf Kinds of Profa-
nations, but that this Kind is the worfi: of all. 4•
That therefore the Lord doth not let Man more in-
teriorly into the Truths of Wifdom, and at the fame
Time into the Goods of LoYe, than fo far as he can.
be kept in them to the End of Life.
222. I. 'That Man may be let into the Wifdom qf
Jpiritual 'Things, and alfo into the Love qf them, and
yet not be reformed ·' The Reafon is, becaufe Man
hath Rationality and Liberty ; by Rationality he
can be elevated into \Vifdom almofl: Angelic, and
by Liberty into a Love not tlnlike Angelic Love ;
but fiill fuch as the Love is, fuch is the \Vifdom ;
if the Love is celefl:ial and fpiritual, the Wifdom
alfo becometh celefl:ial and fpiritual ; but if the
I~ove is diabolical and infernal, the Wifdorr1 alfo is
diabolical and infernal ; the latter indeed may then
appear in its external Form, and confequently be-
fore others, as celefl:ial and ipiritual, but in its in-
ternal Form, which is its very Effence, it is diaboli-
cal and infernal, not outwardly but imvardly ; that
it is fuch, doth not appear to Men, becaufe 1\len are
natural, and fee and hear_naturally, and the exter-
nal Form is natural ; but that it is fuch, doth ap-
pear to the Angels, becaufe the Angels <:re fpiritual,
and the internal Form is fpiritual. Hence it is evi.-
qent, th~t Man might be let into the "\Yifdom of
fpiritual
308 ANG.E'LIC \Vrs:pOM CONC:ERNING
fpiritual Things, and alfo into the Love of them~
and yet not be reformed, but in this Cafe only into
the natural, and not the fpiritual Love of them ;
the Rcafon is, becaufe Man can let himfelf into nat-
ural Love, but the Lord alone can let him into fpi~
ritual ~ave, and they who are let into the latter,
are reformed, but they who ar!! only let into the
fvrmer, are not reformed ; for thefe Iall: are for the
mofl: Part Hypocrites, and mZ:ny of them of the
Order of Jefuits, who interiorly do not bdieve any
Thing Divine, but exteriorly they play with Divine
Things like thofe who exercife themfdves in Leger-:
demain [ Harioli.]
223. By much Experience in the fpiritual ·world
it hath be~n given to know, that Ma11 polieffes in
himfelf the Faculty of underfl:anding the Arcana of
\,Vifdom, like the Angels themfelves ; for I have
feen fiery DeYils, who, when they heatd Arcana of
Wifdom, not only underfrood them, but alfo fpake ·
them from their own Rationality ; but as foon as
they returned to their diabolical Love, they did not
underfrand them, but infl:ead of them Things con~
trary thereto, ~hich were lnfanities, and this they
then calle0. Wifdom: Yea, it hath been given to
hear them, wb'en they were in a State of \Vifdom,
laugh at their own Infanity, and when they were in
a State of Infanity, laugh at \V"ifdom. A Man, who
hath been fuch in this World, after Death when he
. becomes a Spirit, for the n~oft Part i's let into alter~
nate States of \V"ifdom and Infanity, that he may
difl:inguifh the one from the other : But although
from Wifdom they fee their Infanity, yet when their
Prtion is given them) as it is to every one, they put
themfelves
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 309
themfelves into a State of Infanity, and love it, and
then they hate a State of \Vifdom : The Rea.fon is,
becaufe their Internal was diabolical, and their Ex-
'=rnal like as it were Divine : Thefe are they who
are meant by Devils, who pretend to be Angds
of Light ; and by him, who at the Marriage had
not on a \Vedding Garment, and was cafl: into
outer Darknefs, Matth. xxii. 1 I, 12, 13·
224. vVho cannot fee, that it is the Internal
from which the External exifl:s, confequent1y that
the External hath its Eifence from the Internal ?
And who doth not know by Experience, that the
· External can appear otherwife than according to
its E!fence from the Internal ? This is manifeit in
the Cafe of Hypocrites, Flatterers, and Diifemblers;
and that Man can aifume a CharaCter not his own
in Externals, is evident from Players and Mimits,
for they can reprefent Kings, Emperors, yea An-
gels, in their Tone of Voice, Speech, Face, and
Gefl:ure, as ~hough they were really fuch; when
neverthelefs they are Nothing but Imitators ; thefc
Obfervations are made, becaufe Man' in like 1\'lan-
ner can play the Sycophant, as well in Matters of a
civil and moral as of a fpiritual Nature ; and more-
over it is well known, that this is the Cafe with
many. Therefore inafmuch as the Internal. in its
Eifence is infernal, and the External in its Form
appears fpiritual, and yet the External derives its
Eifence from the Internal, as wz.s obferved, it may
be afked where that Effence lies concealed in the
External ? It doth not appear in the Geflure, nei-
ther in the Tone of Voice, nor in the Speech, nor
~n the Face, but yet it lies concealed interiorly in
them.
-
310 ANGELIC VvrsnoM coNcEn.~rNo
them all four : That it lies interiorly concealed in
th em~ is evident from the Cafe of fuch Perfons in
the fpiritual World ; for when Man cometh out of
•he natural 'World into the fpiritual \Vorld, whi~
:s the Cafe when he dies, then he leaveth his Ex..,
tern~ls with his Body, and retains· his Internals.
'vhich he had treafured up in his Spirit, and then,
jf his Internal was infernal, he a·ppears a Devil,
fuch as he had alfo been as to his Spirit, when he
Ji\·ed in the \\Torld. \Vho doth 11ot acknowledge,.
that every Man leaveth Externals with his Body,
and enters into Interm.ls when he becometh a Spi-
rit? To this I may add, that in the fpiritual \Vorld
there is a Communication cf Affed:ions and of
Thoughts derived from them, whe:Pce it js that no
or.e can fpeak otherwife than he thinks: Alfo, that
every one there clnnz,ctlc his Face, and Lecome s
fimilar to his l:..ued:ion, fo that from his Face alfo it
appears what he is: Hypocrites are fometimes per-
mitted to fpeak otherwife than they think, but the
Sound of their Voice is altogether difcordant to the
Interiors ef their Thought~, and from that Difcord-
ance they arc difcovered: lienee it may appear, that
the Internal lies concealed interiorly in the Tone,
Speech, Face, and external G'eflure, and that this is
not perceived by Men in the natural \Vorld, bu~
manife!l:ly by the Angels in the fpiritual \Vorld.
225. Hence then it is evident, that :Man, fo long
as he lives in the natural \Vorld, can be let into the
\Vifdom of friritual Things, and alfo into the LoYe
of them; and that this may and can be done, ets
.,.,,11 "INith .thofc who are merely natural, as with
thdt: \\ ho are fpiritt:al; but with this Diifercnce,
that
THE DIVIN I! PrtOVIDENC~. 3I;:
that the latter arc reformed by them, ,\rhercas the
former are not: It may alfo jppear as if thefe (fuch
as are merely natur:ll) loved \Viiaom, but they love
it no otherwife, than an Adulterer loveth a noble
Courtezan, to vdwm he fpeaks flatteringly, and pre-
fents rich Garments, of whom neverthelefs he thinb;
with himfelf at Home, that fhe is Nothing but ~vile.
\Vhore, whom I will make believe that 1 love her,
becaufe fhe favours my Lufl: ; but if !he doth not fa-
vour it, I will rejeft her : His internal Man is this
Adulterer, and his external Man is this Woman.
226. II. 'That if lvian afterwards recedes from
them, and runs counter to them, he profaneth 'U'hat is
bol)'. There are feveral Kinds of Profanation of
what is Holy, of which in the following Article;
but this Kind is the mofl: grievous of all, for they
who are Profaners of this Kind, after Death be-
come no longer Men 1 they live indeed, but con·
tinually in a phaP..tafl:ical Delirium, and appear to
themfelves to be flying on high, and when they arc
frill, they play with Phantafies, which are feen by
them as Things real; and forafmuch as they are
uo longer Men, they are not called He and She,
but It : Yea, when they are fcen in the Light ef
Heaven, they appear like Skeletons, fame like S!\:elc.
tons of a bony Colour, fome fiery, and fome dry.
That they who are guilty of this Kind of Profan::1tion
become fuch after Death, i> not known in the \Vorld,
and it is not known by Realon that the Caufe of it
is not knO\vn ; the Caufe of it is, that when a Man
firfi acknowledges Divine Things, and believes them,
and afterwards recedes and denies them, then he
mixeth Things holy with profane ; which, when
' they
3I 2 ANGELIC \VrSDOM CONCERNING
they are mixed, cannot otherwife be feparated, than
by the DeftruB:ion of the whole. But t~at this
may be mdre clearly perceived, it fhall be explain-
ed in the following Ordet : 1. That whatfoever a
l\:lan thinketh, fpeaketh, and doeth from his \Viii, is
appropri::tted to him and remaineth, as well Good
as Evil. 2. That the Lotd by his Divine Provi-
dence continually providelh and difpofeth, that E~
vii m.ay be by itfelf, and Good by itfe1f, and fo that
they may be feparated. 3· That this cannot be
done) if Man firfi: acknowledgeth the Truths of
Faith, and liveth according to them, and afterwards
recedeth and denieth thein. 4· That in this Cafe
he mixeth Good and Evil in fuch a Manner that
they cannot be feparated. 5· And forafmuch as
Good and Evil \vith evety Man are to be feparated:i
and in fuch a one cannot be feparated, therefore he
is deftroyed as to every Thing truly Human.
227. Thefe are the Caufes why a Thing fo enor~
tnous exifts, but forafmuch as thefe Caufes are in
Obfcurity by Reafon of the Ignorance thereof, they
fhall be explained, in Order .that they may be ev-
ident to the Underfl:anding. FIRST: That what~
foever a 1\lfan thinketh, fpcaketh, and doeih from his
Will, is appropriated to him and nmaineth, as· 'l.vell
Good as Evil: This was fhewn above, n. 78 to 8 I :
For Man hath an external or natural Memory, and
an internal or fpiritual Memory ; in this lafl: Memo-'
ry are infcribed all and every -Thing whatfoever
that he had thought, fpoken, and done in the
\Vorld from his \Vill, and that fo perfea!y as to ev-
ery Particular, that no one Thing is wanting ; this
Memory is the Book of his Life, which after Death is _
opened,
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE.
opened, and according to which he is judged.
Concerning this .Memory more is adduced in the
\Vork on HEAVEN AND HELL, n. 4.61 to 465, from
my own Experience. SECONDLY: But that the
Lord by his Di-vine Providence continualiy providetb
alld d!fpofeth, that Evil 11iay be by itfelf, and-Good by it-
felf, andJo that they may beJeparatcd: ~very Man is
as well in Evil as in Good, for he is in Evil ftoni
himfelf, and in Good from the Lord, and Man can.;
riot live unlefs he be in both, for if he were in him-
'felf alorie, and fo in Evil alone, he would not have
~ny. :Life, and if he we1·e in the Lord aione, and fo
in Good alone, neither would he have any Life, for
Ma!l in the hztter ~ind .of Life would be zs it were
fuffocated continually gafping f~r .Breath,or likeone
in the Agonies of Death ; ,and in, the former Kind
of Lift he . would be ~xtinet, for Evil without any
Good in itfelf is dead, wherefore every Man is in
both; but the Difference is, that one is interiorly in
theLord, and exteriorly as if in himfelf, and anoth..;
er is interiorly in himfelf, but exteriorly as if in the
Lord, and the latter is in Evil and the former in
Good, yet each is in each; the Reafoti why this is
al(o the Cafe with a wicked Man, is, hecaufe he is
in the Good of civil and moral Life, and alfo exte..
riorly in fome Good of fpiritual Life ; befides that
he is kept in Rationality and Liberty by the Lord, in
brdet that he may have the Power of being in
Good ; this is th~ Good, by which every Man, even
the \Vicked, Is ied of the Lord. From thefe Con..
fiderations it may be feen, that the Lord feparateth
Evil and Good, that the one may be interior and
the other exterior, and fo provideth that they be
Q..Q.. not
3I4 ANGELIC \VISDO:r-1 CONCERNING
not mixed. THIRDLY: But that this cannot be done,
if ManJidl ackno·,dedgeth the Truths of Faitb, and
livetb according to them, and after'Wards receddh and
denictl; them : This is evident from what hath nO\V
been faid ; firfi, that every Thing which a Man'
thitikcth, fpeaketh, and doeth from the Will,. is ap•
propriated to him and remaineth ; and fecondly-r
that the Lord by his Divine Providence continually
provideth, and fo difpofeth Th1ngs, that Good may
be by itfdf, and Evil by itfelf, and that they may be
feparated ; moreover they are feparated by the Lord
after Death ; from thofe who are interiorly evil and
exteriorly good, the good i1 taken away, and fo they'
are left in their Evil; the Cafe is reverfed with
thofe who are interiorly good, and exteriorly like
other.Men have acquired \Vcalth, fought after Dig~
nities, been delighted with various worldly Things~
and have favoured fome Co:1cupifcenees ;.· in thefe
neverthelefs Good and Evil <l>'e not mixed, but fepa-
rate as internal and external; thus in their external
Form they have been in many RefpeCl:s like the
\VickeJ, but yet not in their internal Form : So on
the other Hand the \Vicked, who in their external·
Form have appeared like the Good, in Regard to
Piety, Di\'ine \Vorfhip, VIords and A ::lions, and
yet in their internal Form have been wicked, in thefe
<~.lfo the Evil i1- feparated from the Good. But in
thoie, who have firfl acknowledged the Truths of
Faith, and lived according to them, and afterwards
have run counter, anJ rejeCted them, and efpecially
if they have denied them, Goods and E,·ils are no·
longer feparated, but mixed together ; for fuch a:
Man hath appn?priated to himfelf Good, and alfo·
hath
THE DIVINE PROVIDE~CE. 3IS
hath appropriated to himfelf Evil, and fo hath join~
ed and mixed them. FouRTHLY : That in tbis
Cafe he mixctb Good and Evil, infuch a lvlanncr,tbat
ih:y can.n!)f befiparatcd, follows from what hath jufl:
.now been faid ; and if Evil ca~not be feparatc:d
from Good, and Good from Evil, he can neither
.be in Heav~n nor in Hell ; every Man mull be
~ither in one or the other, he cannot be in both,
for in that Cafe he would be one while in Heaven,
~nd another while in Hell, and \Vhen in Heaven he
.would act in Favour qf Hell, and when in Hell he:
would aD: in FaYour of Heaven, and fo defhoy the
.Life of all who were about him, the celefiial Life
in the Angels, and the infernal Life in the Dedls,
tvhereby the Life of every one would peri!h, for
the Li.fe of every one muft be his O\Yl1, no one liv~
~th in a Life fureign to his own, flill Iefs in one that
, is oppofite~ Hence it is, that the Lord feparates in
~xery one after Death, when he becometh a Spirit
pr a fpiritual Man, Good from Evil and Evil from
Good ; Good from E\·il in thofe who are interiorly
~n Evil, and Evil fran) Good in thofe who are inte-
riorly in Good ; which is according to his own
"\Vm-ds, "TYhqfocver bath, to bim jha/1 be gi'l.'cn~ and
be jhall ba"-'( more abundantly ; but whqfoever hath
m t, from himfba{! be taken a7
..cay, e'i.J
eJZ that be ha!b~"
1\'latt. :xiii. 12. Chap. xxv. 29. Mar~ iv. 25.
• Luke viii. I 8. Chap. .xix. z.6. FIFTHLY : Foraf-
:nuch as Good and Evil in every !1fan we to be flpa-
ratcd, and inju.ch a one cannot beftparatcd~ tbat there-
fore he is dtjlroyed ns to every 'Thing truly human :
\Vhat is truly human [ vcre /mmanum] every one
~a~h by Virtt;e of Rationality, in ~hat h~. can fee
· ~nd
,.
ANGELIG WiSI>OM CONCERNING
• . ' l
~nd kpow, ~f he will, what is tr~e and what i~ goodt
and can alfo will, think, fpeak, and do Good from
Lib.erty, as was !J1ewnb·
e.fote ; b~t this Liberty with
its Rationality is defiroyed in thofe, who have mix:
· ~d dood anp Eyil 'in the~felves .; 'for tpey ~annot
~y Virtu~ ~: 9~o~ fe~ E'Y~ n;i~her ~an th~y br
Yirt~e of ~v1l kno\lf ~ooJ, m'af~~ch ~s they ~ake
()DC,- therefore tpey n~ longer have the faculty Of
j>ower of R<:-tionality, and confequently neither.have
~hey any Liberty:' This is the l~eafon\~hy they are
~s mere phantafiiCal.Deliria, as was faid above, and.
po longer ·~ppear· ~s M~n, but like !3ones ' covere4
with Skin, and ~herefore when they are named, they
are not ~alled He or She, but It : Such is the Lot
~f th~~e ~vho in this.lYla~ner mix Things holy wit~
profane :···But there are feveral Kinds of Profa~
nation; which.ar~ not of this Nature; of which hi
the fubfequent Article. - · -· .· '
zz8. No Man thu~ profanes Things holy, who
doth not kno\v them, for he who doth not know
~hem, cannot acknowledge them, and afterward~
deny the~ ;. wherefore th~y who are -r·ithout the
Chrifl:ian V{orld, and ~o not know any Thing of
the Lord, and of Redemption and Salvation by
Him, do ·not p~ofane the Holinefs thereof, when
they do not r~ceive it, yea~ neither when they fpeak
againfl: it.· Neither d,o the Jew~ pr?fane it,: be:-
caufe from their Infancy they have refufed to re-
ceive and'acknowledge it'; 'it.would be' othe'rwife if
ihey received and ?--cknowledged, and afte-rwards
denied it, which neverthelefs is rarely the Cafe; for
J.Tiany of them acknowledge it exteriorly, and deny
h interiorly, and are like Hypocrites. But they
' · · · · profan~ ;·
THE DIVINE PROVIDJI:NC!. 311
profane Things holy, by mixing them with what
is profane, :w~o firfl: receive and acknowledge
tbem, and afterwards depart from them and deny
them. 'Their r~ceiving and acknowledging them
t· ' ... f ' .
m their Infancy, and Childhood, is not to be reck-
oned as any Thing~ for this every. Cbrjftian doeth,
becaufe at ,that Age .they do n<;>t receive and ac-:-
knowledge the Things which are of Faith and Char-
... o l I · ' • ' ' I • o ·, •
ity from any Rationality and Liberty, that js, in the
Underftanding 'froni'the Will, but only from Mem~
ory and the Authority of l\1afl:ers, and if they live
according to them, it Is out of blind Obedience ;
but when Man cometh into,the Ufe of his Rational~
ity and Libert}< as is 'the ·care rucceffively when he
groweth ''u'p [ adole}cit .c
tJuventflit,] if he then ac-
knowledges Truths and l~ves according to them, and
afterwards denieth them: he mixeth Things holy
and' profane, and infl:ead of a. :Man, becometh
'fuch a Monfl:er, as was defcribed above. But if
l'v1an is in ~vii, frc)ru th~ Time he bec.omes poffeffed
of Rationality and Liberty, that is,· from the Time
he begins to think for himfelf [dumJui Juris failus
~,] even to the Period of Yo~th, and after\vards
acknowledges the·Truths ofFaith andlives accord.
1ng to them, provide-d he·'then abid~th in them to
his Life's End, he doth npt·m'ix them, for the.Lord
then feparateth 'the Evifs of his former Life from
the Goods of his,latter Life ; this is the Cafe \vith
all who repent." But of this more in what follows.
" 229. III.' That 'there are fevera! Kinds of Profa-
nations ofwhat is holy, and that this Kind is the worft
ijail.· · In the mofl: common or general Senfe, by
fr~anatio·n is meant all Impiety, therefore by
· - · · · Profaners
-3IS ANG;ELIC WISDOM CONCEU.NING
Profaners arc meant all impious Per~ons, who in
their Hearts deny God, the SanCtity of the Word?
and confequently the fpiritual Things of the Church,
which are Sanctity itfelf, concerning which they alfo
fpeak impioufly. Such Profaners however we ar~
riot here treating of, but of thofe who profefs to
bflie\'C in God, who dl:ablifh the Sandity of the
\Vord, and who acknowledge the fpiritual Things
of the Church, and yet do this for the mofl: Part
only with their Mouths : The Reafon why thcfe
are guilty of Profanation, is, bccaufe what is holy
out of the ·word [SanDum ex Verba] is in them and
with them, and this which is in them, and whicq
confiitutes fame Part of their Underfianding and
"\Viii, they profane ; whereas in the Impious, '"'hq
deny the Dirinity an9- all Things Divine, there i~
not any Thing lfo1y for them to profane : Thefe
indeed are Profaner.s, but ~hey are not the Proto
fane.
230. The Profanation of what is holy is meant
in the fecond Commandment of the Decalogue,
Where it is faid, THOU SHALT NOT PROFANE THJ;:
NAME oF THY Gon: And that it ought not to be
profaned, or that Profanation is to be 1hunned,
is meant in the Lord's Pr~yer, by HALLO\\'ED BE
THY NAME; \:Vhat is underfl:ood by the Name of
God, is fcarcely known by any in the Chrifl:ian.
Vvorld : The Reafon is, becaufe it is not known,
that in the fpiritual vVorld there are not Nar:nes, as
in the natural \Vor1d, but that e\·ery one is named
according to the Q:!ality of his Love and Wifdom ~
for as foon as any one cometh into Society or Affo~
dation with others~· he is immediately named a;cord';'
m~
TH.E DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 3I9
!ng to his ~a!ity there; and his Nam'.:! is in the
fpiritual LanJuage, which is fuch, that it can give
a Name to every Thing, becaufe there each Letter
in the Alphabet lignifies a Thing, and fevcral Let~
ters joined into :l \Von.!, wh:ch conilitute the Name
of a Perfon, involv.:: the emirc State of the Thing :
This is one of the ,~!Onde:ful Things i•1 the fpiritual
\Vorld. Hence it is evident, that by .the Name of .
God in the \Vord is fignified God with every Thing ·
Divine ["all the Divine] which is in Him, and pro~
ceedeth from Him ; and forafmuch as the Word is
toe proceeding Divin~, this is the Name of God ;
and forafmuch as all the Divine Things, which are
called fpiritual Things of the Church, are from the
\Vord, they alfo are the N,mle of God. From
thefe Confiderations it may be feen what is meant
in the fecond Commandment in the Decalogue,by
'Thou jb.'llt not profane the Name ofGod; and in the
Lord's Prayer by Hallowed be tby Name. Similar is
the 3ignification of the Name of God and of the
lord, in many Places of the \Vord of both Tcfta~
ments, as in Matt. vii. :22. Chap. x. 2 2. Chap.
xviii. 5, ~o. Chap. xix. :29. Chap. xxi. 9· Chap.
xxiv. g, ro. John i. 12. Chap. ii. 23. Chap. iii.
17, 18. Chap.xii. 13,28. Chap.xiv.q,Is,x6.
Chap. xvi. 23, 24, 26, 27. Chap. xvii. 6. Chap.
xx. 31 ; beficles other Places, and very man:y in the
Old Teftament. He who knO\.veth this Significa•
tion of Name, may know what is fi~nified by thefe
Words of the Lord, " He that receiveth a Prophet
in the Name of a Prophet, )hall receive a Prophet's
Reward, and be that receiveth a righteous Man in the
Name of a ri::,·bteous Man, !hall re,ei·ve a rigbtcous
1-tian's
'
320 ANGELIC vVrsDOM CONCER~1ING
Man's Reward,· and whofoever foal/ give to drinl!
unto one of theft little ones, ,a Cup ofcold Water only_,
in the Name of a D!fciple,, he jha!l in no wift loft hi~
Reward," Matt. ?'·. 41 ; he who; by the Name of
a Prophet, by a righteous Man·, an~ a Difciple, her~
underfrands only a Propheti a righteous Man, and
a Difciple,.doth not underfl:and any otl~er than bare.:
ly the literal Sdife,· neither do.th he kno\\;. what is
the Reward of a Prophet, the Reward of a juft Man-,-
and the Reward of a Cup of cold Water given to a
J?ifciple, wher~ n.everthelefs by,the Name and'the
Reward of a Prophet .is meant the State an~ Felicity·
of thofe who are in Divine Truths ; by the Nam~
and the Reward of a righteous ~an,- the State and
Felicity of thofe who are in: Divine Goods ;: and by
a Difciple, thofe who are in fome fpiritual Thing~
of the Church, a Cup of cold Water being Some.;
thing of Truth. That the ~ality of the State o.f
Love and Wifdom,- or of Goodnefs and Troth, is·
fignified by Name, is alfo evident from thefe "\vords'
of the l.ord, " He that entereth in by the Door is th~
Shepherd ofthe Sheep ; to him the Porter openeth; and.
the Sheep hear his Voice; and he callcth his own Sheep·
by Name, and leadeth them out/' John x~ 2', 3 ;- to
call his Sheep by Narne, is t.o teach and lead every
one who is in the Good of Charity; according to the
State of his Love and \Vifdom : By the Door i~
meant the Lord, as is evident from Verfe· gth of
the fame Chapter, "I am the Door: By M! ifany
}.l[an enter in, he foal/ be Javed/' from which it is
evident, that the Lord himfelf is to be approached;
in Order that any one may be faved, and that he
who approacheth Him, i~ the Shepherd of the
SJieep;
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 32I
Sheep; and he who doth not approach Him, is a
Thiefanda Robber, as it is faidin Vcrfe rftofthat
Chapter.
z3 r. Forafmuch as by the Profanation of what
is holy, is meant Profanation by tbofe who know
the Truths of Faith and Goods of Charity from the
'\Vord, and alfo in fome Meafure acknowledge them,
and not they who do not know them, nor they who
from Impi~ty entirely rejeCt them, therefore what
follows is faid not of the latter, but' of the former ;
the Kinds of Profanation by thefe are feveral,
lighter and more grievous, but they may he refer-
red to thefe feven. THE FIRST KIND oF PROF-
ANATION IS COMMITTED BY THOSE, wbo jtjl
from the Word, and concerning the TVord, or from th~
Divine Things of the Churcb mid concerning them:
This is done by fame from a bad Habit, by raking
Names or Forms of Speech out of the. \Vord, and
introducing them in unfeemly and fomctimes filthy
Difcourfe ; \vhich cannot but be connetl:ed with a
Contempt of the \Vord in fame Sort; when never-
thelefs the Word in the \Vhole and in every Partie-·
ular is Divine and holy ; for every \Vord thereof
in its B.Jfom containeth fomething Divine ; and
thereby hath Communication with Heaven : But
this Kind of Profanation is lighter, or· more griev-
ous, according to the Acknowledgment of the Sanc-
tity of the \Vord, and the Indecency of the Dif-
courfe in which it is introduced by thofe who ·make
a Jefr of it. A SECOND KIND OF PROFANATION IS
COMMIT fED BY THOSE, who zmdeljlandand acf.:nowf-
edge Divine Truths, and yet live contrary f() them ;
llut they profane them more lightly, who only un.
R R. derfl:and
322 ANGELIC \VIsDOM CONCERNING
derfl:and them, whereas fuch as acknowledge them
alfo, profane them more grievoufly; for the Under.
Handing only teacheth, much in the fame Manner
as when a Preacher teacheth, and doth not conjoin
itfelf with the ·will from itfelf; but Acknowledg.
ment conjoineth itfelf, for Nothing can be acknowl.
edged without the Confent of the Will: Howbeit
this Conjunftion is various, and the Profanation
is according to the ConjunCtion; when a Life is led
contrary to the Truths which are acknowledged; as
for Example, if any one acknowledgeth that Re-
venge and Hatred, Adultery and Fornication~ Fraud
and Deceit, Blafphemy and Li~s, are Sins againll;
God, and yet committeth them, fuch a one is in a
more grievous Degree of this Kind of P1 ofanation ;
for.the Lord faith, " 'rhe Seroant •who knr;weth his
Lord's FVill, and doeth not according to his TYill, jhall
bt! beaten with many Stripes," Luke xii. 48. And in
another Place, "!fye u·ere blind, ye would have n~
Sin; but now ye Jay, u:e fee, therefore your Sin re.
maineth," John ix. 4 r. But it is one Thing to ac.
knowledge Appearances ofTruth, and another to ac.
knowledge genuine Truths ; they who acknowledge
genuine Truths, and frill do not live according to
them, appear in the fpiritual Vvorld without the
l.ight and Heat of Life in the Tone of their Voice
and Speech, as if they \vere Inertnefs itfelf [Jicutfo·
rent merce Inertia.] A THIRD KIND OF PRoFANA·
'fiON IS COJ\IMITTED BY THOSE who apply the liter.
a/ Senft of the ·word to corifirm evil Loves, and fa!ft
Principles; the Reafon is, becaufe a Confirmation
of what is Falfe is a Negation of the Truth, and a
Confirmation of Evil is a Rejection of Good, and
the
TuE DIVINE PROVIDENcE. 323
the 'Word contains in its Bofom Nothing but Di-
'11ine Truth and Divine Good, and this in the ulti-
mate Senfe, which is the literal Senfe, doth not ap-
pear in genuine Truths, (except where it teacheth
concerning the Lord and the cffential '\Vay of Sal-
vation,) but in Truths cloathed, v:hich arc called A p-
pearances of Truth ; wherefore this Senfe may be
wrefl:ed to confirm Herefies of many Kinds : Dut
whofo cpnfirmeth evil Loves, offereth Violence to
Divin!! Goods ; and whofo confirmeth falfe Princi.
pies, offereth Violence to Divine Truths : This Iat-
(er Violence is called the Falfification of Truth, but
the for:ner the Adulteration of Good ; they are both
tmderfl:ood by Bloods in the '\Vord ; for the fpirit~
ual Holy Pri~ciple, (or fpiritual Holinefs) which is
alfo the Spjrit of Truth proceeding from the Lord,
refi.deth inwardly in t.very Particular of the literal
Senfe of the Word; this Holy [Spirit] is violated,
when the Word is falfi.fied an.9 ~du!terated : That
this is Profanation, is evident. A FOURTH K.r:r-:n
OF PROFANATION IS COMMITTED BY THOSE, -.:.:ho,
' 'l.Uitb their Mouths jpMk crbings pious and holy, and,
:z!Jo in their 'Tone of Voice and Gijlure counterfeit
!{!fellions ofthe Love of furh 'Things, and yet in their
Hearts do not believe and fo'l..·e them. MoH: of thefe
are Hypocrites and Pharifees, fron~ whom after
Death every Truth and Good is taken away, and
then they are fent into 01Jter Darknefs. Such of
this Kind, ~s have confirmed themfelves again£1:
what is Divine, and againfl: the \Vord, and thence
~lfo againfl: the fpiritual Things of the \Vord, fit
filent in that Darknefs, impotent of Speech, and
q.efirous to babble about Things piou.s and holy, as
they
324 ANGELIC \VIsDOM CO~CERNING
they did in the \Vorld, but they are not able ; for
in the fpiritual \Vorld every one is forced to fpeak
as he thinks, but an Hypocrite wifheth to fpeak
othenvife than he thinks, whence there is an Op-
pofition in the Mouth, by Reafon of which he can
only mutter. Howbeit, Hypocrites are lighter or
more grievo~.;s, according ro the Confirmation a-
g:.;infl: God, anJ Reafonings exteriorly in Favour
of God. A FIFTH KrND oF PRoFANATION Is
COMMITTED IlY THC;SE, who attribute to tbcn!fe/'i.•es
fibings Divine: Thefe are they who are meant by
1~ucifer in Ifaiah, Chap. xiv ; By Lucifer is there
meant Babe!, as may appear from Verfe 4th, 22d,
of that ChaFter, where alfo their Lot is defcribed:
The fame are likewi!'e meant and de!'cribed by the
\Vhorc fttting upon the fcarlet coloured Beafl:, in
the Revelation, Chap. xvii. Babel and Chaldrea
are mention~d in many Parts of the Vvord, and by
Babel. is there meant Profanation of Good, and by
Chaldrea Profanation of Truth, both in thofe who
attribute Things Divine to themfelves. A SIXTH
Ku.m OF PROFANATION IS COMMITTED BY THOSE,.
who ackno'Wlcdge the Word, and yet deny the Lord's
Divinity: Thde are called in the World Socinians,
:md fome of them Arians; the Lot ofboth thefe is,
that they invoke the Father, and fome of them alfo
for the Sake of the Son, that they may be admitted
into Heaven, but in va!n nntil they become without
Hope of Salvation ; and they are then let down in-
to IIell among thofe who deny God: Thefe arc
they who arc meant by thofe who blafpheme the
Holy Ghofl, who will not be forgiven neither in
this v\rorld, nor in that which i~ to comr, Mott. xii.
·u:
'
THE DiviNE PRovintNcE. :;: 5
sz: The Reafon is, becaufe God is one in Pcrfon
:md in Elfence, in whom there is a Trinity, an~l
this God is the Lord ; and forafmuch as the Lo1ci
is alfo Heaven, and conf'equentfy they who arc in
Heaven are in the Lord, therefore they who deny
the Lord's Divinity cannot be admitted into Heox-
cn, and be in the Lord : That the Lord is Heaven,
and that thence they who are in Heaven arc in the.
Lord, was fue,vn aboYe. A SEVr:'NTH KIND OF
PROFANATION IS COMMITTED BY THOSE, wbo.fitJt
acknowledge Di'l..'in.: Truths, and /hJe according to them~
and afterwards rcc~de and deny them ; this is the
worft Kind of Profanation, by Reafon that they mix
Things holy and profane, in fuch a Manner, tb.t
they cannot be feparated, and ycJ- in Order to their
Admitiion either into Heaven or IIell, they muH: be
feparated ; and becaufe in fuch Perfons this cannot
be effeel:ed, all the human IntelleClual and Volunta..
ry [Faculty] is defl:royed, and they become no long-
er Men, as was faid before. It is ne:1rly the f:1me
with thofe, who acknowledge in their Hearts the
Divine Things of the \Vord and of the Church,
.:.nd entirely immerfe them in their Proprium, [fdf-
ifh Nature] which is the Love of ha,·ing Domin-
ion over every Thing, pf which much hath been
f.a.id above; for thefe after Death, when they be~
come Spirits, will by no Means be led of the Lord,
but entirely of themfeh·es, and when their Love is
not refl:rained, they delirc not only to rule over
Heaven, but alfo over the Lord; and inafmuch as
they cannot do fo, they deny the Lord, anJ bect">:ne
Pevils. It is to be obferved, that t!Je Life's Love,
~·hi.ch is alfo the ruling Love, rem:::.ins in C\'ery one
2.fter
326 ANGELIC \XflSDOM CONCERNING
after Death, and that it cannot be removed. Th~
·Profane of this Kind are meant by the Luke-warm,
of whom it is thus written in the Revelation," I know
thy Works, that thou art neither ccld nor hot; I would
thou wert cold or hot; fo then becaz!fe thou art neitber
cold nor hot, l .wil!jpue thee ord ifmy Mouth," iii., 14,
I 5· This Kind of Profanation is thus defcribed by
'the Lord in Matthew, "TVhen the unclean Spirit is.
gone out ofa lvlan, he walkcth through dry Places,
Jetking Rtjl, but.findetb none; then hefaith, I toil/ re~
turn into the Hol!fefrom whence I came out ; and when
he is come, be.findctb it empty, fa:cpt~ and garnifbed;
then goetb he and taketi:Jo with himftlfJevcn other Spirit.r
more 'Wicked than /;in!felf, and they enter in and dwell
there; and the laji State of that l'vfan i! wotje than
the .fi!ft," xii. 4-3, 45 ; the Converfion of a Man is.
here defcribed by the unclean Spirit's going out of
him; and his Returning to his former Evil.$, after
cafl:ing out Things true and good, is defcribed by
the Return of the unclean Spirit with feven others
more wicked than him[elf into the Houfe which he
found garni!hed for him ; and the Profanation of
what is holy by what is profane, is defcribed by the
laO: State of that Man being worfe than the firfl:~
The fame is underfl:ood by this Paffa;e in John,
" JefusJaid to him who was heakd in the Lake ofBe-.
thefda,jin no more, ldJ a '<.rJor:fe 'Thing -bifai thee," v. 14.
That the Lord provideth, that Man may not interi-
orly acknowledge Truths, and afterwards recede
from them and become profane, is meant by thefe
\Vords, " He hatb blinded their E..fes, and hardened
their Heart, tbat theyJbould not ftc witb their Eye.r,
nor undetjland with their Heart, and he com:erted~.and
Ijhoul4
THE DIVlNE PROVIDENCE. 321
I jbndd heai th~m:~ John xii. 40 ; left they !hou!J
be converted and I fhould heal them, fignifies left
they !hould acknowledge Truths and then recede,
and fo become prof:.me : For the fame Reafon the
Lord fpake by Parables, as He Himfelf faith, Matt.
xw. I 3· The Jews being forbid to eat Fat ami
Blood, Levit. iii. 17. Chap. vii. 23, 25, lignified
that they were not to profane Things holy, for Fat
lignified D1vine Good, and Blood Divine Truth.
That Man being once converted ought to continue
in Good and Truth to his Life's End, the Lord
teacheth in Matthew, "Jifusfaid, he that enduretb
to the End, foal/ be Javed,, x. 22; alfo in l'.1ark
X!ll. 13.
2 32. IV. That tberefore the Lord doth not let Mmz
more interiorly into the Truths of W!fdom, llnd at the
fame Time into the Goods of Love, thanJoJar as he can
be kept in thm to the End of Life. In demonflrat~
ing this we muft proceed difl:inc:l:ly, .lor two Rea-
fans, firfr, becaufe it nearly concerns the Salvation
of Mankind; fecondly, becaufe on a Knowledge of
this Law depends the Knowledge of the Laws of
Permiffion, to be treated of in the following Para-
graph: Firft, it nearly c'oncerns the Salvation of
Mankind ; for, as was obferved before, he who
firft acknowledgeth the Divine Things of the
Word and of the Church thence derived, and after-
wards recedeth from them, very grievoufly pro-
fanes what is H0ly. Therefore that this Arca-
num of the Divine Providence may be unfolded in
fuch a Manner, that the rational Man may fee it in
its true Light, it !hall be elucidated in the following
Series. I, That in the Interiors of M<1n, Evil and
Good
,328 ANDELIC vVISDOM CONCERITING
Good c:;mnot refidc together, nor confequently the
Falfe tf Lvi! and the True ofGood at the lame Time.
p.. That in the Interiors of Man Good and the True
0f Good cannot be infufed by the Lord, except in
Proportion as Evil and the Falfe of Evil is thence
t ('tr.c,\(:d. 3· If Good with its True were infufed
thne bef0n:, or in greater Proportion than as Evil
w<:s rem~ved together with its Falfe, Man ·would.
recede from Good and return to his Evil. 4· That
"he:n l\I<in is in Evil, many Truths may be infufed
in ~o his Underfb.nding, and treafcred up in his
1\lemory, and yet not be profaned. 5· But that
the L0rd by his Divine Providence moft particular-
ly p;oviceth, that they be not receiV'ed thence by
the- \'.Jill, fooner or in greater Proportion, than as
l"h n removeth Evils in the external Ivlan, as if of
liimfdf. 6. That if they were received fooner, or
in gre:1ter Proportion, then the 'Will would adulte-
rate the Good, and the Underfianding would falfify
tl":e True, by mixing them with Evils and Falfei~·
'7. 1 h:Jt therefore the Lord doth not let Man more
h· re~!orly into the Truths of Faith and the Goods.
of T.ove, than fo far as Man can be kept in them to·
~ht- End of Life.
233· In Order therefore that this Arc:mum of
t't>c Di\'inc Providence may be difclofed, in fuch a
ll1nncr that the rational Man may fee it in his-
-::..ight, the Things whith have been now adduced
,hali be fevnaLy explained. FIRST : That in the In-
:eri;rs of l1lan, E'Vit and Good cannot rifzde together at
the .fame Time, conf:quently neither can the Fa!fe ofE-
'l.•i! and the 'I'rue ofGood: By the Interiors of Man
is mt:ant the Internal of his Thought, of which Man.
doth
\
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE.
doth not know any Thing, before he comes into the
fpiritual \Vorld and its Light, which is the Cafe after
Death ; In the natural vVorld this can only be
known from the Delight. of his Love in the Exter~
nal of his Thought, and from Evils themfelves,
when he explores rhem in himfelf; for, as was !hewn
above, the Internal of Thought in Man coheres
with the External of Thought in fo intimate a State
of Connexiot1, that they cannot be feparated ; but
of this more may be feen above. It is faid, Good
and the True of Good, and Evil and the Falfe of
Evil, inafmuch as Good cannot ex.ifl without its
True, nor Evil without its Falfe, becaufe they are
connubial Partners or Conforts, ·for the Life of
Good is from its True, and the Life of True from
i_
ts Good; it is the fame with Evil and its Falfe.
That in the Interiors of Man Evil cannot exifl: with
its Falfe, and ·at the fame Time Good with its True,
may be feen by th"e rational Man without Explana~
tion, for Evil is oppofite to Good, and Good is op~
poute to Evil, and two Oppoiites cannot refide to-·
gcther : There is alfo in all Evil an inherent Hatred·
againfl Good, and in all Good an inherent Love of
.defending itfelf againfl Evil, and removing the fame
from it; trom which Confideration it follows, that
the one cannot dwell with the other; and if they
were together, firfl: a Conflict and Combat would
arife, and Defl:ruaion would follow; which alfo th<}
tord teacheth in thefe vVords, "Every Kingdon1
divided againfl: itfelf is brought to Defolation ;1 and
every City or Houfe divided againfi itfelf lhall no~
fiand. He that is not with Me is againfl: Me, and
he that gathereth not with Me fcattereth abroad,'~
S :> Matt.
330 ANGELIC WisDOM CONCERNING
Matt. xii. 25, 30; and in other Places. "No one
can at the fame Time ferve two Mafiers, for he wilt
either h~tc the one or love the other,'' Matt. vi. 24..
Two Oppofites cannot exi!l: together in one Sub-
fiance, or 1
1
\): m, without its being difiraCl:ed and
peri!hing ; in Cafe one were to ~dvance and ap-
proach the other, they would feparate themfelves-
altogether like two Enemies, one g(which would .
retire within his Camp or Fortifications, and the oth..
er would Iemain \":ithout:. This is the Cafe ~vith
Evils and Goods irr a Hypocrite; fuch a one is in
both; but Evil is within and Good is without, ar.d
thus they are feparate and not mixed.. SECONDLY:
cJ'hat Good and the True ofGood cannot be infi!fed hj'
rhe Lord into tbe Interiors of Jl.1mi, but in ProportioJ;,
as E'l.oil and tbe Fa!fe ofEvil is removedfrom -thence.:
This is a neceiTary Confequence of what precedes;
for fince Evil and Good cannot be together, Good
cannot be impbnted before Evil is removed. It is-
faid in the Interiors of Man, by which is meant the
Internal of Thought ; thefe Interiors are what ar~
here tre<:ted of, in whic_
h either the Lord mull: d\vell,
or the Devil; the Lord is there after Reformation,.
-.nd the Devil is there before it ; therefore in Pro~
, portion as Man fuffers himfelf to be reformed, in
the fame Proportion the Devil is call: out, but in
Proportion as he doth not fuffer himfelf to be re-
formed, in the fame Proportion the Devil remain·
eth : \Vho cannot fee, that the Lord cannot enter,.
fo long as the De\,il is there, and he is there fo long
as Man keepeth the Door :!hut, which Man is in
Poifeffion of together with the Lord ; that the Lord
entereth, when that Door is op~ned by Means of
Man~
"fnE DIVINE PROVIDENC:£. ,_J3 I
Man, He Himfelf teacheth in the Revelation, " I
fraud at the Door and knock; if any Man hear my
Voice and open the Door, I will come in to him, and
will fup with him, and he with Me,'' iii. 20; the
Door is opened by Man's removing Evil by fhun.
ning and avoiding it as infernal and diabolical; for
whether it be called Evil, or the "nevil, it is the fame
Thing ; and on the other Hand, whether you fay
Good, or the Lord, it is the fame Thing; for iri~
wardly in all Good the Lord dwelleth, and in all
EYil inwardly the Devil dwelleth. Hence tfle Truth
of this Pofition is evident~ THIRDLY: If Good
with its 'True were infufedformer, or in greater Pro~
portion, than as Evil and its Fa!fe is removed, Mmt
would recedefrom Good and return to his Evil.~ The
Reafon is, bccaufe 'Evil would prevail, and that
which prevails, conquereth, ifnot at the Time, nev~
~rthelefs afterwards; while Evil continues to prevail,
.Good cannot be introduced into the inmofl: Apart.
ments, (intima Conclavia), but only into the outer
Courts, by Reafon, as was faid, that Evil and Gooq
cannot be together~ and that whi~ is only in the
,cuter Courts, is removed by its Enemy which is in
the inner Apartments, whereby there is a Receilion
from Good and a Return to Evil, which is the worfl:
Kind of Profanation. Befides, the very-Delight of
Man's Life is to love himfelf and the vVorld aboYe
all Things; this Delight cannot be removed in a
Moment, but mufl: be done fucceilively; but accord-
ing to the Proportion of this Delight which remain-
eth in Man, in the fame Proportion is the Prevalence
of Evil; and this Evil can no othcrw1fe be removed,
th.<l:n by making the Love ofSelf to become the Love
pf
:)32 ANGELIC vVISDOM CONCERNING
of Ufes, and admitting the Love of Rule, not for
the Sake of Self, but for the S;~.ke of being ufeful,
for fo Ufet confl:itute th~ Head? and the Love of
Self or the Love of Rule at firfi confi:it~te the Body
ltnd~r that Head, .and afterwards ~he Feet upon
which he walketh ': Who doth not fee that Good
(:onfiitutes the flead, and that when Good confi:i-
tutes the Bead, the Lord is there, Oood and Ufe b~­
ing one? Who doth not fee, thflt if E"il cohfiitutes ·
the Head, the Pevil is there, and fince neverthelefs
civil and P10ral Gopd, and alfo fpiritual Good in i~s
external Form, ar~ to be received~ that thefe the!"!
confl:itute the: Feet, ;md the Sole~ of the Feet, an~
are trampled upon ? Therefore inafmuch as the State
of Man's Ljfe i~ to b~ invt;rted, fo that "'hat ~s
;:tbove may \:>e placed below, ;md this Co!lverfioi).
cannot pe effecled in a Moment, (for that fuprem~
Pelight of Life, whi~h proceeds fro~ the Love qf
Self and thenc~ of Dominio!l, canno,t be d~minifhed
except f~ccefiively, and fo changed into the Love qf
Ufes,) for this Reafon Gooci cannot be infufed or
introduced by the Lord fooner, or in·greater ~tan"!
tity, than in Proportion as Evil is removed ; and if
it were inf\}fed 'fopner, and in greater ~antity,
:Man wol}ld r~cede from Good and return to his
Evil. FouRTHLY: That when !Vfan is i!f Evil, many
~ruth.; may be introducfd irzto his Und~i]landing, an(!.
theft .flared up h! the Memory, ~nd yet not profaned:
The Re~fon is, beca1;1fe the l)nJerfianding doth no.t
£ow into the Will, but the Will into the Under-
Handing ; and forafmuch as the Underfrandin~.
doth not flow into tht;! Will, many Truths may ~e
re~~ived by it, and !lored u,p in the 1\'lemory, anq
ye~
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. . 333
'Yet not mixed with the Evil of the \Viii, and fo
what is holy is not profaned : Moreover it is incum~
bent on every one to learn Truths from the \Vord,
or from Preachings, to depofit them in the Memo~
ry, and to think of them; for the Undcdlanding,
from the Truths which are in the Memory, all\l
~hexx:e enter into the Thought, ought to teach the
"Will, that is, teach the Man, what he ought to do;
this therefore is ~ principal Means of Reformation :
"When Truths are only in the Underfbnding and
thence in the Memory~ they are not in a Man, but
without hirn. The Memory of M4n may be corn-
pared with the ruminatory Stomach of Animals
which chew the Cud, in which they depofit their
food, which, fo long <J.S it is there, is not in their
Body, but out of it~ but as foon as they bring it up
~hence, and after chewing, dige!l: it, it enteretl1 into
the Life and Q.ouri!heth the Body:* It is the Love
of the Will which hath a Defire, and as it were an
Appetit.e for Truths thus depofited, and caufeth
~hem to be imbibed and converted to Nourifhment;
if that Love is evi.l, it hath a Defire and as it were
an Appetite for unclean Things; but if good, it
hath a Defire, and as it were an Appetite for clean
Things; and the Things which do not accord there-
with it feparates, putteth away, and cafteth out,
which is efFetled by various Means. FIFTHLy :
!Jut that the Lord by his Divine Providence djecially
pro·vidctb
• Th :Man's Memory, how~ver., the Pro•ilion fiored up is no,t na:ura.l,
)Jut fpiritual, which is meant by I:ruths, and in itfdf confills of Knowl·
redges; and in Proportion as 1\fan, by the Exercife of his thinking Prin·
!=iple, which is a Kind of Rumination (or chewing the Cud,) bring> it
pp th~nce, in the fame Proportion his fpiritual :-.fi.!ld is not:ri!hcd. T it.
334 ANGEL1C 'VISDOM CONCERNING
providcth jhat they be not received thence by the vVi!~f
fooner or in greater Proportion, than as Mqn rcmovetb
·Evil in the external Man as ifofhimfe!f; for that
which cometh from the vVill, entereth into the Man,
and is appropriated t0 him, and becometh the Prin~
ciple of his Life; and i~ the Life itfclf, which Man
hath from the vVill, Evil and Good cannot be to.
gether, for in fuch Cafe he would perifh; but both
may be in the Underfianding, which are there call,.
ed Falfes of Evil, or Truths of Good, yet not toG
gether, for in fuch Cafe Man would not be able tq
know Evil from Good or Good from Evil; but
they are difl:inguifhed and feparated there like ~
Haufe into interior and exterior [Apartments ;J
when a wicked Man thinketh and fpe:tketh good
Things, th~n he thinketh and fpeaketh exteriorly,
but when he thinketh ;md fpeaketh evil Things, theq
he tbinketh and fpcaketh interiorly, wherefore wherl,
he fpeaketh good Things, his Speech iifueth as it
were from the \Vall of the Houfe, and may be
compared to Fruit which is fair on the Outfide, but
worm-eaten and rotten within, and alfo to the out.
fide Shdl of a Dre>gon's Egg. SIXTHLY: That if
they u:ere received fooner and in greater Proportion,
then tbe Will would adulterate the Good~ and the Un-
deljlanding u~ould Ja!fify the True, by mi.¥ing them
with Evils and their confequent Fa!fes : When the
Will is in Evil, then it adulterates Good in the Un.
derftanding, and Good adulterated in the Under~
fianding is Evil in the Will, for it confirmeth the
Perfnafion that Evil is Good, and vice vcrfa; Evil
doeth thus with all Good which is oppofite to it-
felf; for Evil fal!ifieth the True, becaufe the True.
of
TnE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 335
(.)(Good is oppofite to the Falfe of E~il; )his alfo
the \Vill doeth in the Underfl:anding, and not the
Underfbnding from itfelf. Adulterations of Good
nrc defcribcd in the \Vord by Adulteries, and Fal-
fifications of Truth by \Vhoredoms. Thefe Adul-
terations and Falfifications are effetl:ed by Reafon-
ings from the natural Man which is in Evil, and
they are alfo effetl:ed by Confirmations from the Ap-
pearances of the literal Senfe of the \Vord. Self-
Love, which is the Head of all EYils, is more in-
genious than' other Loves in adulterating Goods and
falfifying Truths, and this · it doeth by the Abufe of
Rationality, which :every Man hath from the Lord,
as well the ·wicked as the Good ; yea, it can by
Confirmations caufe Evil to appear altogether a~
Good, and the Falfe as True : \Vhat can it not do,
when it can confirm, by a thoufand Arguments;
that Nature created herfelf, and that then ib~ crea-
ted Men, Beafrs, and Vegetables of all Kinds ? And
further, that by Ii1flux from her interior Self [ex in-
ieriorife] fh~ caufeth Men to live, to think analyt-
ically, and to underfl:and wifely ? The Reafon why
Self-Love excels in the Art of confirming whatfoev-
er it will, is, becaufe its ultimate Surface is confl:itu-
ted by a certain Splendor of Light variegated into
divers Colours; this Splendor is that Love's Glo-
ry of acquiring vVifdom, and thereby alfo Eminence
and Dominion. But when this Love hath confirm-
ed fuch Tenets, then it becometh fo blind, that it
doth not fee otherwife than that Man is a Beafl:,
and that they think alike, yea that if a Beafl: could
fpeak alfo, it would be a Man in another Form ; If
it be led by any Perfuafion to believe, that any
Thing
336 Al\TGELIC \Vrsnor. CONCERNIN~
Thing of Man liveth after Death, then it is fo blind,
that it thinketh Beafls do the fame, and that this
Somewhat living after Death is only a fub~ile Ex:
halation of Lif~, like Vapour; which nevertheiefs re..;
lapfes to its dead Body.; or that it is a vital Some•
\'Jhat, without Sight; Hearing, and Speech, confc..
' quently bl~nd, deaf and d1..1mb, hoverfng about and
thinking ; not to mention other infane Ideas, wh1ch
Nature herfelf, though in herfelf void of Life, i·n...
fpires into his Phantafy : Such is the Effe& of Self~
LoYe, which viewed in itfelf is the Love of Man;s
Proprium, and the Proprium of Man; wi-th Refpett
to its AffeCtions; which are ali naturai, is not un•
like the Life of a Beaft, and with Refpefr to its Per•
ceptions, becaufe they proceed from thofe Affec•
tions, is not unlike an Owl: Wherefore he who
contfnually immerfes h!s Thoughts in his Proprium,
cannot be eievated out ofnatural Ligqt !nto fpiritu-
al Light, and fee any Thing of God, of Heaven,
and of Life eternal. Forafmuch as this iove is of
fuch a Nature, and yet excels in the Art ofconfirm"'
ing whatfoever it will, therefore with the fame Art
it C<ln alfo adulterate the good Things of the Word1
and falfify its Truths, when it is confirained through
any Kind of Necefiity to confefs them. SEVENTH~
L Y; 'That therefore the Lord doth. not let Mmz mort!
interiorly into tbe 'Truths of Wifdom, and tbe Goods of
Love, thanjo Jar as Man can be kep: in them to bis
Lift's End: This the Lord doeth, left Man fhould
fall :nto that mofi: grievous Kind of Profanation of
Things Holy, which is treated of in this Article;
by Reafon of this Danger, the Lord alfo permitteth
Evil• cf Life, and many Here!ies relating to Wor4
ihip; .
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE~ 337
fhip; concerning the Permiffion of which the Read.
er is referred to what is ihewn in the fubfequent
Paragraphs.
Tlzat the Laws of Permijjion aljo are
Laws of the IJivine Providence.
234· T
~ 'HERE are not any Laws of Permiffion
. . . by themfelves, or feparate from the Laws
of the Divine Providence, but they are the fame,
wherefore it is faid that God permitteti11 whereby it
is not meant that he willeth, but that he cannot pre.;
vent fuch a Thing, by Reafon of the End propofed,
which is Salvation ; whatfoever is done to the End
~hat Salvation. may be effeB:ed, is .according to the
Laws of the Divine Providence; for, as was ohferv.
ed before, the Divine Providence confrantly pro•
teeds in a Manner different and contrary to the
W.ill of Man, keeping this End continually in View,
\vherefore in every Moment of its Operation, or in
~very Step of i~s Progreffion, when it perceiveth
Man to deviate from this End, it direaeth, tutneth,
and difpofeth him, by withdrawing him from Evil,
and leading him to Good ; that this cannot be done
without the Perm1ffion of Evil, will be feen in what
f~llows. Befides, Nothing can be permitted with-
out a Reafon, and the Reafon exifl:s no where elfe,
but in fome Law of the Divine Providence, which
Law teacheth why fuch a Thing is permitted.
T T 235. He
338' ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
'235· He who doth not at all acknowledge the
Divine Providence,. doth not in his Heart acknowi...
edge God, but inflead of God he acknowledgeth
-Nature, and infl:e3d of the Divine Providence, hu~
man Prudence ; that this is the Cafe, is not appar.
ent, becaufe Man can think differently from differ-
ent Grounds, [pot~ft aliter cogitare et rogitare,] and
can alfo fpeak differently from different Grounds,-
for he can think and fpeak one Thing from his in-
terior Sdf [ex i7lteriorife,] and another Thing from
his exterior Self [.-zb exteriorife ;] it is like a Hing.e
by which a Door can be turned both \\Tays, one
1V2'j when a Perfon comes in, and another vVay
when he goes out ; and like as a Sail can turn <t
Ship in different Directions, according to the Man~
ner in which it is expanded by the Mariner. They
who have confirmed themfelves· in F2.vour of h~:.
man Prudence, in fuch a Manner as to deny the
.Divine Providence, fuch Perfons, whatfoever the)
fee, hear, and read, whilfi they are under the Influ-
ence of this their own Way of thinking, do not ob-·
ferve or attend to any Thing eife, yea neither can
they, becaufe they receive Nothing from HeaYen,.
but only from thernfelves ; and inafrnuch as they
form Conclufions from Appearances and Fallacie~
alone, and do not fee any Thing elfe, they can fwear
that it is fo ; and if they alfo acknowledge Nature
~lone, they can be angry with the Defenders of the
Divine Pwvidence, provided they be not Priefl:s, of
whom they think that they arc led to fuch Defence
in Compliance with their particular Tenets and
FunCl:ion..
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCl!. 339
~36. \Ve fl1all now proceed to enumerate fome
1)articular Things which arc by Permifiion, and yet
according to the Laws of the Divine Providence,
from which the merely natural Man confirms him-
felf in Favour of Nature againfl:. God, and in Favour
of human Prudence agairrfl:. the Divine Providence;
as when he readeth in the Word, that Adam, the
.wifefl:. of Men, and his \Vife, fuffered themfelves to
:be feduccd by the Serpent, and that God did not '
avert this by his Divine Providence. That their
.firfl:. Son, Cain, flew his Brother Abel, a.nd God did
not then with-hold him by fpeaking to him, bu.t
.only denounced a Curfe againfl: him after the Act.
That the Ifraelitifh Nation worfhippe.d a golden Calf
jn the \Vildernefs, and acknowledged it as the God
which brought them out of the Land of Egypt~
when neverthelefs Jehovah faw this not far off from
Mount Sinai, and did net prevent it. Alfo that DaQ
:vid numbered the People, and therefore a Pefl:.ilence
was fent a~ong them, whereby fo many Thoufands
of Men perifhed, and t.1at God did not fend the
;prophet Gad to hi~ before, but after the Act, to
denounce Puni!hment. That Solomon was permit~
ted to eftablifl1 idolatrous W orfhip : And many
Kings after him~ to profane the Temple and holy
Things of the Church : And laflly, tha~ that Na.
tion was permitted to crucify the Lord. In thefe
and many other Paffages in the Word, the Ac~
knowledger of Nature and of human Prudet1ce fees
Nothing but what make~ againfl:. the Divine Provi-
pence, wherefore he can ufe them as Arguments to
~eny it, if not in his exterior Thought which is near~
. ~~
,34() ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
eft to Speech, yet ~n his interior Thought which is
;remo.te frqm it. . . -
237· Every Wor!hippe! of himfelf ~nd of Natur~
~onfii-ms himfelf againft the Divine Providence,
when he fees i? the vVorld fo many i~1pious Per~
~ons} and fo many Impieties ~o~1m~tted by them,
and at the fame Time th!lt many glory in them,
and yet they are not followed by any Puni!hments
from God. ·And frill more doth he confirm himfelf
againft the Divine Provid.~nce, when he fees that
wicked Contriv<J,nce-s, Cunnipg, and Deceit fucceed~
even ag~nii th~ pia~~' 'the jufr~ and the .fincere ~·
:and that Injuilice triumph? over J!Jfiic~ in Judg:-
ments and Negociations.' And efpecially he ·con:'
firms himfelf, 'Yhel} h.e fees the Impious advanced
to Hono~rs, ~md made Nobles ap.d Primates: More:
~ver that th~y abound in Riches, and live eiegantly
and magnificentiy ; ap.d.on the other Hand that the
'\Vor!hippers of God are in Contempt and Poverty:
He likewife confirm~ himfelf againfi: the· Divine
Providenc~, wh,en he thinks ~ow \:Vars are permit;
ted, and thereby fo many Men flaughtered, ·and fo
many Citi~s, Nations, and FamiJies pl!-mdered; and
~oreover, that Vittory inclines to th~ Side of Pru~
dence,andnot ahyays inFavourofJufiice; and that it
~ak~s no·Difference whether the General ·be a good
or a wicked Man ; befides other fuch like Circum~
flances ; ·which are all Permiffions according to th~
Laws of the Divine Providence. ... ·· ··
· 238. The fame. natural Man confirms himfelf
!-\gainfr the Divine Providence, when he takes a
:View of the Religious of various Nations, as t:kat
~here are fome w~o know Nothing at all of God~
· and
t .;: ·•
THE DIVINE PROVIDENC.E. 341
and that there are fame who worfhip the Sun and
Moon; fome alfo who worfhip Idols and graven
Images even of' Monfters ; and likewife fame who
worihip dead l\1en. Moreover when he confiders
the Mahometan Religion, that it is received by fo
many Empires and Kingdoms ; and that the Chrif-
tian Religion prevails only in the fmalleft ~arter of
the habitable Globe, which is called Europe ; and
that even there it is in a State of Divifion ; and that
there are fome of its Profeifors, who claim to them-
felves Divine Power, and defire to be worfhipped as
Gods ; and invoke d~ad Men ; and alfo that there
;are fome who place Salvation in certain Words
~vhich they think ~nd fpeak, and not in any Good
,they do ; ' ~or.eov~r that there are few who live ac-
,cording .to th.eir own Religion ; befides taking into
~he Account th,e great Nul!lber of Herefies which
pave heretofore prevailed, and fome which exifl: at
this Day, fuch C;lS thofe of the ~akers, IVIoravians,
Anabaptifts, and others ; alfo t~at Judaifm fl:ill con~
tinues. Tile Denier of the Divine Providence from
t.he~e Things concludes, that Religion in itf~W is not
any Thing, but yet that it is neccifary, becaufe it
, ferves to keep Mankind within Bounds.
· Z39· Tothefe Arguments more may at this Day
be added, by whi.ch, they who think inwardly in
Favour of Nature, and of human Prudence, may
fl:ill more ftrongly confirm themfelves in their Sen-
timents ; as that the whole Chriftian World hath
?!-cknowledged three Gods, not knowing that God
is one in Perfon and in Eifence, and that that God is
the Lord. Alfo that heretofore it was not known,
~~tin all the Partic'ulars of the_\Vord there is a fpir-
. itl,lal
-
.342 ANGELIC \VI-sDOM CONCERNING
itual Senfe, and that its SanCtity confifts therein :
And further that it was not known, that eJfential
Chrifl:ian Religion confifl:s in :fhunning Evils as
Sins : As alfo, that hitherto it was not known,
that Man liveth as a Man after Death ; for the Faq
vourers of Nature may fay with themfelves and
among e'ach other, if thefe Things be true, \vhy
hath the Divine Providence never reYealed thelll
till now?
240. All the particular Things \•:hich are recited
in the Numbers 237, 238, and 239, are adduced to
the End that it may be feen, that all and fingular
the Things which occur in the World, as well to
the ·wicked as the Good, are of the Divine Provi.
dence ; confequently that the Divine Providence
operates in the moft minute Particulars of the
Thoughts and AC\:ions of Men, and that thereby it _
operates univerfally. But inafmuch as this cannot
be feen therein, except each Particular be explaine<J.
feparately, therefore they ihall briefly be explained~
in the Order in which they were adduced, begin-:-
ning with n. 2 36.
241. I. That Adam, the wiftjt of Men~ and hi~
Hlife, fujfered thcn!feh;es to be feduccd by tbe Serpent,
and tbat God did not prevent this by bis Di'l-·ine Prov-
idence : The Reafon is, becaufe by Adam and his
·yvife are not meant the fir!l: of all the Men that
were created in this Vvorld, but the Men of the,
mo11 ancient Church, whofe new Creation or Re.
generation is defcribed at the Begit1ning of Genefis ?
their ne\v Creation or Regeneration itfelf is fignified
by the Creation of Heaven and Earth in the firft
Chapter ; their Vlifdom and Intelligence by th~
Garden
TIJE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 343
Garden of F.den; and the F.nd of that Church by
their Eating of the -Tree of Knowledge : For the
\Vord internally is fpiritual, containing within it3
Bofom Arcana of Divine Wifdon1, ami in Order
that thefe Arcana may be therein contained, it is
written by mere Correfpond~nces and Reprefenta-
tions. From thefe Correfpondences and Reprefen-
tations it is evident, that the Men of that Church,
who in its Beginning were the mofl: wife, and in its
End, by Reafon of the Pride of their Self-derived
Intelligence, were the mofl: wicked, were not fedu~
ced by any Serpent, but by Self-Love, which is
there denoted by the Head of the Serpent, which is
to be bruifed by the Seed of the \Voman, that is,
by the Lord. \Vho cannot fee from Reafon, that
ether Things are underftcod, different from what
are here hiftorically recorded in the Letter ? For
whc; can comprehend, that the Creation of the
\Vorld could have been fuch as it is there de-
fcribed ? Wherefore alfo the Learned are much puz-
zled to explain what is contained in the firfl Chap~
ter, and confefs after a11, that they do not under-
fiand it : Moreover it is faid, that in their Garden
or Paradife there were placed two Trees, the one
of Life, and the other of Knowledge, and thefe for
a flumbling Block; as alfo, that barely by eating
of the latter, they finned fo greatly, that not only
they, but alfo the whole human Race, their Pofler-
ity, became obnoxious to Damnation; likewife that
a Serpent was able to feduce them, befides other
Circumfiances, as that the V.Joman was created out
of a Rib of the Man ; that they knew that they
were naked after their Fall, and covered themfelves
with
l4t} ANGELIC \VlSDOM CONCERNING
with Fig Leaves, and that Coats of Skins were gii".J
en them to clothe their Bodies ; and Cherubim·
were placed vi'ith a flaming Sword to keep the Way
of the Ttee of Life. All thefe Things are Repre.:
fentatives, by which are defcribed the Efl:ablifhment
of the moll ancient Church, its State of PerfeB:ion7
its Decline, and lafl:ly its Defl:ruB:ion £ The con.
cealed Meaning of all the Things contained in the
fpiritual Senfe, which refides in every Particular of
the \Vord, may be feen explained in THE ARc A.;
N A CmLESTIA on the Books of Genefis and Exo.o
· Etus, publifhed in London ;· fro_
m which it may alfo
appea·r, that by the Tree of Life is there under!l:ood
the Lord with RefpeB: to his Divine Providence:~
and that by the Tree of Knowledge is under!l:ooa
Man with RefpeB: to his felf-derived Prudence.
z.p. II. That their .fir:ft-born Son, Cain,jlew his
Brother Abel, and God did not prevent it by;peaking
ta him, but rmly curfed him cifter the AB. Forafmuch
as by Adam .and his Wife· is meant the mofl: ancient
Church, as hath jufl: been obferved above, confe-
quently by Cain and Abel, their fir!l: Sons7 are
meant two Effentials of the Church, which are Love
and Wifdom, or Charity and Faith1 by Abel Love
and Charity, and by Cain \Vifdom or Faith, fpecifi.·
cally \Vifdom feparate from Love; or Faith feparate
from Charity ; and Wifdom as alfo Faith feparate is
offuch a Nature, that it not only rejeB:eth Love and
Charity, but alfo annihilates them, and fo flayeth its
Brother : That Faith feparate from Charity hath
this EffeB:, is well enough known in the Chrifi:ian
'\Vorld; fee THE DocTRINE oF THE NE\V ]ERU·
SAI.EM CONCERNING FAITH. The Curfe of Cain
involves
345
involves t~e fpiritual State, into which they come
~fter Death, who feparate Faith from Charity, or
Wifdom from Love. But neverthelefs, that Wif:;
dom or Faith might not therefore perifh, a Mark
\vas fet upon Cain, left he !hould be flain, for Love
is not given without VJifdom; nor Charity without
Faith. lnafrnuch as by thefe Circumfl:ances nearly
~he fame Things are reprefented, as by eating of the
Tree of Knowledge, therefore they follow in Order
after the Defcription of Adam and his Wife ; they
alfo, who are in Faith feparate frcim Charity, are in
felf-derived Intelligence, and they who are in Chari-
ty, and thereby in Faith, are in Intelligence from the
Lord, and fo in the Divine Providence.
243· III. That tbe lfraelitijh Nation worfoippcd a
golden Calf in the Wildernefs, and acknowledged it ar
the God, which brol!ght them out if tbe Land of Egypt;
tzvbm ncverthelefs 'Jehovahjaw this from Mount Sinai
'(lOt far ojj; and did not prevent it : This was done
in the \Vildernefs of Sinai near the Mount : 1 hat
Jehovah did not \*;ith-hold the Ifraelites from that
wicked Idolau;y, is according to all the L'aws of the
Divine Providence which have been before fet forth,
and alfo according to thofe \vhich follow. This
Evil was permitted them; that they might not all
perifh ; for the Children of lfrael were brought
out of Egypt, that they might reprefent the Lord's
Church, and this they could not reprefent, unlefs
the Egyptian Idolatry was firfl: rooted out of their
Heahs ; which could not have been done, except
they had been left of themfdves to aa according to
that which was iri their Hearts, and fo to have it
removed by a grievous Punifhment. \Vhat is fur..:.
U u ther
'·
346 ANGELIC \VtsDOI'z coNCER.NING
thcr figni£ed by that idolatrous,\Vorfhip, and by t:Se
Threat tb:1t they lhould be totally rejected, and that
a new Nation fbould be raifed up out of M6fes, may
be feen in THE ARCr\NA CELESTL"., on the xxiid
Chapter of Exodus, where this SubjeCt: is treated of.
244· IV. That Da·vid mrmbcrcd t.&e People, and
therefore a Peflilence 'l.vas font among them, u:herebyfo
many Thoufands of Men perijhed, and that God did
notfend the Prophet Gad to him before the At!, but after
it, to denounce Puuifhment: He who confirms him-
felf againfl: the Divine Providence, may alfo think
and revo!ve in his MinJ various Things on this ·
Mz.tter, particularly, why David was not forewarn-
. cd, and why the People· were fo grievoufly punHhed
for the King's Trarifgreffion.· That' David \vas net
forewarned, is conformable to the Laws of the Di-
vine Providence fet forth abovei efpecially the two
\\'hich are explained, n. I 29 to I 53 ; and n. I 54 to:
1'74 : That the People were fo grievoufly puni1hed~
for the King's Tranfgteffion, and feventy Thoufand
cf them cut off by the Pefl:ilen::e, was not owing
to the King, but tb the People ; for it is written,
" Again the Anger rif the Lord 1.vas kindled agai1!fl'
Ifrae!, therefore he mo<Ued David agai??fi them,faying,;
go mimber Ifraeland 'Judah," 2 Sam. xxiv. I.
245· V. That Sohmon ~vas permitted to eflablifh~
idolatrozu Worjbip : This was to the End, that he
might reprefent the Lord's Kingdom or Church
with all the Religions in the univerfal ·world, for
the Church efl:ablifhed with the Ifraelitifh and Jew-·
iib Nations was a Reprefentative Church, wherefote
aH the Judgments and Statutes of that Church rep-
refented fpiritual Things of the Church, which ate
its
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 347
·its Internals, the·People themfelves reprcfentcd the
·Church, the King reprefented the Lord, David the
Lord who was about to come into the \Vorld, and
Solomon the Lord after his Coming; and inafmuch
as the Lord after the Glorification of his Human
[Effcnce] had Power oYer Heaven and Earth, as
He Himfdf faith, Matt. xx.viii. 1 S, therefore Solo.-
mon his Reprefenter app~arcd in Glory and lVlag-
nificence, and was in \Vifdom, above all the Kings
of the Earth, and alfo built the Temple ; and more-
over permitted and efl:ablifhed the religious \Vor-
fhip of many Nations, by which were reprefented
the various religious Principles preYai!ing in 'the
\Vorld; the .like is fignified by his \ViYes, which
were feven Hundred in Number, and by bis Con-
cubines, which amounted to three Hundred, 1 Kings
xi. 3 ; for \Vife in the \Vord fignifies a Church,
and Concubine a rcligious Principle. Bence it may
appear why it was giYen Solomon to build the Tei).1,-
ple, by which the Lord's Divine Humanity was fig-
nified,Johnii. 19, 2x,andalfo the Church; alio
why it was permitted him to efl:ablifh idolatrous
\Vorlhip, and to have fo n!.any \Vives. Th:tt by
David in many Paffages in the Word is meant the
I.ord who was to come into the v..rorld, may be feen
in THE DocTRINE OF THE NEw jERus.u.c~.: coN,.
CERNING THE LoRD, r.. 43, 44·
246. VI. That it <u'as permitted many Kings ajttr
Solomon, to profane the Temple and holy Things of the
Church: This was becaufe the People rcprefented che
Church, and their King the Head of them ; and
forafmuch as the Ifraelitifh and Jewifh Nation were
fpch1 that they could not long reprcfcnt the Church,
.f!Jr
ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNI1~G
I
for they were Idolators at Heart, therefore they re!
ceded fu~cefiiyely from rep~efentatiYe \Vodhip, by
pen·erting all Things of the Church, infomuch that
in the End they vafiated it ; this was reprefented by
Profanations of the Temp!e by their Kings, and by
their Idolatries; the Vaflation of the Church it-
felf by the Deflru~ion ~f the 1'emple, and by the
c:mying away of ~he lfra~litifh People, and the
Captivity of th~ Jewifh People in Babylon. This
"!vas the R~afon or Caufe of the above Permiffion,
and whatfoever is done from any Caufe, is done
from the Divine Providence of the l.ord accord-
ing to (om~ .of its Laws. -
247· VII. 'That that Nation was permitted to cru-
cify the Lo~d: 'The Reafon of this was, becaufe the
Church among that Nation was totally vaflated, an~
become fuch, that they not only did not know and
?-cknowledge the Lord, but alfo hated him : Never:
thdefs all that they did ~o Him, was according to
the Laws ofhis Divine PrO\·idence. That the Paf-
iion of the Crofs was the la!l Temptation, or lafl;
Combat, by which the Lord fully overcame the
Hells, and fully glorified his Humanity, may be
feen in THE DocTRINE oF THE NEw jERUSALEM
. .
CONCERNING THE LoRD, 11, 12 to 14, and in
THE DocT,RINE oF THE NEw jERUSALEM coN~
CERNING F4ITI!, n. 34, 35•
248. Thus far we have explained the Particulars
:1hove recited, n. 236, which are fome Paffages out
pf the \Vord, whereby the natural Man, who rea~
fons againfl: the Divine Providence, may c.onfirn{
!:limfelf in fuch Reafoning 1 for, as was before ob~
ferved,
TnE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 349
ferved, whatfoever fuch a l'dan feeth, heareth, ancl
readeth, he can take up as an Argument againfi
Providence: Few however confirm themfclv~s a-
gainfi the Divine Providence from the Things con:
tained in the \Vord ; but many from the Things
~vhich are extant before their Eyes, as mentioned in
n. 237, which {hall now in like Manner be e~p
plained.
249· That e'uery T:rorjbipper cf himfdfand ~f Na-
ture co'!firmeth hin!felfagaiJ!:ft the Dh:ine Pro·videnre,
when be Jeeth fo n:aizy impious Perjons in tlx World ;
and fo many Impieties committ~d by them, and at tbc
fame Time that fome glory in them, and yet that they_
(Ire not followed by any Punifhmcnt from God. All
Impieties, and all Glorying therein, are Permiffions,
the Caufes of which are Laws of the Divine Provi-
. . >
dence. Every Man may freely, yea mofi freely,
think whatfoever he will, as \veil againfi God, as in
favour of 9od, and he who thinketh againfl God,
is rarely punifhed in the natural \Vprld, becaufe
there he is always in a State of Reformation; but
he is puniilied in the fpiritual V\!orld after Death,
for then he can no longer be reformed. That the
Laws of the Divine Provid~nce are the Caufe of
Permiffions, is evident from the Laws thereof fct
forth above, if they are reviewed and examined,
which are thefe : That Man ought to aCt from
Liberty according to Reafon, concerning which
Law, fee n. 71 to 97 above.. That Man ought not
to be forced by external Means to think and will,
and fo to believe and love the Things which arc
~f Religion, but that Man ought to lead and fame-
times to force himfelf to it, concerning which Law.
" -
fee
/
350 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
fee n. 129 to I 74· .That felf-derived Prudence i~
:Nothing, and only appears as if it was, and alf<>
ought fo.to appear, but that the Divine Providence
from Things the mofl: particular is univerfal~ n. 191
to 2 r3· That the Divine Providence hath Refpea
to Things eternal, and no otherwife to terpporary
Things, than fo far as they make one with Things
eternal, n. 214 to 220. That Man is not let more
interiorly into the Truths of Faith and Goods of
Charity, than fo fa~ as he can be kept in them to
his Life's End, concerning which Law, fee n. 22 I to
Z33· That the Caufes of PermiffioQ.s are Laws of
the Di\·ine Providence, will alfo be evident from
what follows ; as from this Confideration, that
Evils are permitted to the End that Salntion may
be wrought. Alfo from this ; that the Divine
Providence is continual, as well with the Wicked
as the Good. And lafl:ly from thrs ; that the
Lord cannot act againft the Laws of his Divine
Providence, becaufe to a.B: againfl: them, would be
to aB: againfl: his Divine Love and his Divine \Vif~
dom, confequently againfl: Himft>lf. Thefe Laws,
if they be compared, may {hew the Reafons, why
Impieties are permitted by the Lord, and not pun-
ifhed when they exifl: only in Thought, and alto
rarely when they exifl: in Intention, and fo likewife
in the 'Viii, and not in AB:. But yet every Evil
is followed by its Punifhment, for it is as if Evil
had its Punifhment infcribed upon it, which the
impious Man fuffers after Death. By thefe Confid-
etations here adduced, may alfo be explained the
Ground and Reafon of the following Pofition .
ftated in n. 237; Tbat the Wc,:/bippcr of &!f mzq
t/J,
....
'f,-H:t: Dt'VI~·E PROVI!>£Nct. 3'5 z'
("/;e Worjhipper of Nature cor!firms himfelf.flill mott '
againfl the Divine PrO'lJidence, when he fee.r-that evil
Contri·vanccs, Oumrhzg, ami Deceitfucceed, even agah!fl
the Pious, the Jl!ft, dnd the Sincere; and that In·
J:!flice triumphs o~vcr 'Ju.flice hz 'Judgments and Ne-·
gociations. All the Laws of the Divine Providence
are Neceflities ; and forafmuch as Neceilities are
the Caufes why the above evil Things are permi~­
ted, it is evident that, to the End that Man may"
li\'e as Man, the Liberty of doing fuch Things can-.·
not be taken away fron"\ him by the Lord, except
mediately by the Word, and efpecially by the Pre-
cepts of the Decalogue, with thofe who acknowl.;
edge all Kinds of Murders,- Adulteries, Thefts, and
falfe Tefl:imony t~ be Sins:· But with thofe who
do not acknovdedge fl!t:h Things to be Sins, the
fame is effeB:ed mediately by civil Laws-, and th'e
Fear of Punifhment thence incurred ; alfo medi:-
ately by ·moral Laws~ and Fear of the Lofs of
CharaB:er, Honour, and In~ereft: By thefe Means
the Lord leadeth the \Vicked·, yet only from doing-
fuch Things, and not from thinking and willing
them : \Vhereas by the former Means the Lord
leadeth the Good, not only from doing Evils, but
alfo from thinking them and will!ng them;
2 so. II. .That the Worjhipper ofSelfand the Wor.-
jbipper of Nature co?!firmetb himfe!fagai;!fi the Divine
Providence, when hefeeth the Impious promoted to Hon-
ours, and made NobleJ· and Primates; moreover that
they abound in Wealth, and live' elegantly and nzagn!fi-
Wit/y, and the WtJrjhippers ofGod in Contempt and Po"J-
erty: The Worfhipper of Self and the \Vor!hipper
of Nature thinks Dignities and Riches the fuprem~
and
352 A:No£uc \VIsrioM coNCERNING
and fole Felicities which can be given, confe~
quenrly the real and eifential Felicities ; and if, in
Confequence of having been initiated in Divine
.\Vorfi1ip in his In:fancy, he thinketh any Thing of
God, h·e calleth them Divine Bleffings ; and fo long
~s from thefe Blellings he do.th not afpire to any
Thing higher, he thinks that there is a God, and
won1lips him; but in this \Vorlhip there lies h:d a
l\Iotive, which he himfelf doth not then know, that
he may be promoted by God to fiill higher Digni-
·ties and more abundant \\!'ealth, and if he attains
i:1ereto, his \Vodhip declines more and more to'
Exteriors, till it comes to Nothing, and at length he
maketh no Account of God, and denieth him : The
EffeCt is the fame; if he be taft down from the Dig~
nity and Opulence in which he placed his Heart.
\Vhat then are Dignities and Riches I?ut fiumbling
Blocks to' the Wicked? Not fo to the Good, be.:
caufe they do not place their Hearts therein, but in
the Ufes or Goods, for the doing of_ which Digni-
ties and Riches fcrve as Means ; \Vherefore from
the Promotion of the Iinpiou3 to' Dignities and
Riches·, and their being made Nobles and Primates,
no' one can confirm himfelf againfl the Divine Prov~
idence'; but a Worfhipper of Self and of Nature~
Befides, what is greater ~r Ieifer Dignity, arid g~~at.:
er or Ieifer Opulence? Is it any Thing in itfelf b'ut
Somewhat imaginary? Is one more profi>erous a~d
happy than the other? Is the Dignity of a Noble;
yea of a King or an Emperor, after a Year's Du.:
ration, confidered any otherwife than as Something
common, which no longer maketh his heart to
dilate with Joy, and may even become vile in his
Sight ?
,.
THE DIVI NE P ROVIDENCE. 353
'
Sight ? Are Men, by Virtue of their Dignity, in any
greater Degree of Happinefs, than thofe who are in.
lefs Dignity, yea, than thofe who are in the leafl: of
all, fuch as Hufbandmen and alfo their S~rvants?
May not thefe latter be in a greater Degree of Hap·
pineD>. ,;Then it goes well with them, and they are
~ontenteJ \Yith their Lot ? \Vhq is more refUefs at
Heart, more frequently fretted, or more grievoufly
enraged, than a Lover of himfelf? This is the
Cafe as often as he is not honoured according to
the Pride of his Heart, or \vhen any Thing doth
not ft1cceed according to his \Yifh and Plea!ure :-
yYhat then is Dignity, if it be not to fome Ufe aml
P urpofe, but an Idea? Cau fuch an Idea exift iri
imy othel' Thought, than: in Thought about Self
and the \Vorld ? and is it any Thing in itfelf but
an Idea, that the \Vorld is every Thing and Eter-
nity Nothing? We fhall here add a few Obfcrva~
tions concerning the Reafoni why the Di,iine
Providence permits the Wicked at Heart to be
promoted to Dignities, and to acquire vVealth:
';fhe Impious; or Wicked, can equally as well per..:
form Ufes as the Pious or Good, yea, v/ith greater·
~rdour, for they confider themfelves in Ufes, and:
Hon~:mr:> they confider as Ufes ; ·,:vherefore in Pro.;
poitio"n to· the Prevalence of Self-Love, is kindled
the Luft of doing Ufes with a View to their own
Glory : Such Fire doth not operate with the Pions:
or Good, uniefs it be kindled from below by the
Confideration of Iionour; for which Reafon the·
Lord ruletl1 the Impious at Heart, 'vho 2.re ir>.
Dignities, by the Love of Fame, and thereby ex1
Cites them to perform Ufes to the Cor..mwnity or
Vi vr th :ir
.}._.,. ,...~
35,} ANGELIC WisDoM coNcERln'Nd
their Country, to the Society or City in which they'
dwell, and alfo to their Neighbour or Fellow-Citi-·
zen:· For· the Lord's Kingdom is a Kingdom of-
Ufes, and \vhere there arc only a few who perform
Ufes for the Sake of being ufeful, he caufeth the ·
W orfhippers of Self to be advanced to Offi.:es of
Preeminence, in which they are· all excited by
Self-Love to do Good. Suppofe there were any
infernal Kingdom in this Vvorld, (although there
is not any fach) in which the Love of Self onlj
prevailed, Self-Love being the Devil himfelf,
·would not every Member of it perform Ufes·from
rhe Fire of Self-Love, and the Splendor of his own·
Glory, more than in any other Kingdom? Never-·
thelefs all fuch have Nothing in their· Mouths bu~
the public Good, yet in their Hearts·Nothing but
their own Good'; and :forafmuch as every one iri
fuch Cafe looks up ro his Prince that he may be
made greater, for he afpires to be greatefr, can
fuch a one fee that there· is ·a God; whilfl: he i9
encompa£fed by the Smoke as it were of a Confla-
gration, which no fpiritual Truth in its Light can
pervade ? I have fecn that Smoke about the HellJ
of fuch. Seek every Method of Information, and
inquire how many of thofe, who at this Day afpir~
to Dignitie:> in the Kingdoms of the Earth, are any
other than Lovers of Self and of the \VorM·; yoJ
will fcarce find fifty in a thoufand who are influ~
enced by the LoYe of God, and among thefe only
a few who afpirc to Dignities ; feeing then they are
fo few in Number who are influenced by the Love
of God, and fo many are influenced by the Love of
Self and of the Vlorld, and !!r..ce the !:mer Love:;',
from
'THE DIVIN·E PRO'VIDEN·CE. 355
'from the Nature of their Fires, are more produc-
-tive of Ufes, than the Love of God is, from its
Fire, hO\v can any one confirm himfelf againfl:
Divine Providence, from this Circumfiance of the
Wicked being in greater Preeminence and Opu-
lence than the Good ? This is alfo confirmed by
thefe \Vords of the Lord, "And the Lord commend-
ed the unjzljl Ste-:1.:ard, becazife he had done 'Zl-'ifely '
For the Ghildren ofthis rrorld are in their Gouratim
·u.:iflr than the Children of Light. And I Jay unto
you, make to yr;urftlves Friends of the Mammon if
'Unrightcozynefs ,· that when ye fail, they may receive
you into e7..:crlqfling Habitations," Lu~e xvi. 8, 9 P
what is meant by thefe ViJords in the natural
Senfe, is evident : ,But in the fpiritual Senfe are
meant the Knowledges of Things good and true,
which the Wicked po!fefs, .:mc:l which they ufe fole-
ly for the Purpofe of acquiring to themfelves Digni-
ties and Riches ; i~ is thefe Knowledges, of which
the Good, or the Children of Light, are to make to
themfelves Friends, q.nd which are to introduce them
into everlafling Habi~ations. That there are many
who love themfeh·cs and the \V'orld, and few who
love God, the Lord a!!<) teacheth in thefe \Vords,
" Wide is tbe Gate, and broad is the Way, that lead.,
(th to DejlruDiqn, and many tbere be wbicb go in
thereat: Butflrait is the Gate, and narrow is the Way~
';Vbich leadeth unto Lift!, m:df ew there be thatfind it,"
Matt. vii. 13, 14· That Dignities and Riches are
either Curfes or Bldllngs, and with whom they are
fuch, may be feen above, n. 217.
. 2 5I. III. 'Tbat tbe Worfo.ippcr of Self, mzd the
Wqrjbipp('r cf Nature, coJ!firmcth hinft!f agah!ft the
· Divin~
Divine Providence, wben he thinl·etb how PVars arc~
permittei and !hereby fo m.any ~fenjlaughtcred, mzq
their Pq:fdftons plundered~ ~t is not from the Divine
P rovidence, that War~ exiit, becaufe they are con:-
netl:ed with Murders~ Depredations, Violences, Cru~
elties, and other enormous Evils, which a'"e diamet~
rically .coi-ltra~y ~~· Chrif!:ian Charity : Still however
they cannot but be permitted, becaufe the Life's
Love of Men, fince the ·1ime of the m6fr ancient
P.:ople,' ·who are meant by Adam and his \Vife, of
\vhom above, n. 241, became of fuch a Nature, that
he defireth to have Dominion' over others, and at
Jength ov~r all,- ;md ;wifh~th 't~..poffefs \vorldly
\Vealth, and at length all the vVealth in the World ;
thefe two Loves cannot be held in Bonds, fince it
is accord·i~g. to the 'Divine Provid_ence, tha(every
one fhould be allowed to act from Liberty accord.
ing to Reafon,, concerning which, fee above; n. 7i
~o 97 ; ·a~1d that without Penniffions, Man canna~
be led by the Lord from· Evils, confequently not
1·eformed and faved, for if ~vils were not permitted
to break out, Man would not fee them, therefore
neither would he acknowledge them, nor could he
be induced to refift them : Hence ,it is that Evils
~annat be refirained from appearing by any Regu..-
lation of the Divine Providence ; for in that Cafe,
they \vould remain {hut in,· and like the Difeafe~
:which is called a C:mcer and a Mortification, would
fpread, and confume every Thing ~ital in Man.
For l\'lan is by Birth ·like a little Hell, between
\vhich and HeaY~n there is a perpetual Difagree~
rnent ; no Man can be drawn out of his Hell by
the Lord, unlefs he fees that he is there, and wilh~
' ~ · ' eth
YJ'HE PIVJNE PROVIDENCE. 357
e.th to be delivered ; and this cannot be done with-
:out Permifiions, the Caufes of which are Laws of
the Divine Provid,ence. i'his is the Re::tfon wlq.
there are ·wars of greater or leiTer Extent ; lefler
\Vars between the Pofld1ors of Lands and Lord~
fhips and the.ir Neighbours, and ·gre;:tter \V;:m be.
tween the Monarchs of Kingdom$ anJ their Neigh-
pours; their being greater or lefler, makes no oth·
er DifFerence than that the }efier are kept within
,certain Bounds by the Laws of their particular Na.
tion, arid the greater by the Law of Nations; and
~hat the greater as well as the }efler are deiirous of
going beyond their La·ws, but that the lefi~r cannot,
and the greater can? yet flill within the Limits of a
Eertain Poilibility.' · That greater \Vars, inafmuch
as they are conneCled whh Slaugh~er, Depredations,
:Violence, and Cruelty,. are not prevented by the
J..ord from being carried on by Kings and Generals,
neither in their Beginning, nor in their Progreffion,
por in their Conclufion, until the Power of one or
Fhe other is fo reduced, that th~y are in Danger of
Deflruaion, is owing to feveral Caufes, which are
hid in the Treafury of Divin~ \Vifdom ; fame of
thefe have been revealed to me ; among which is
~he following ; that all Wars, al~hough they are of
a civil :Nature, are reprefentative of States of the
Church in Heaven, and that they are Correfpond-
ences : Such were all the \Vars \\ hich are, defcri.
bed in the \Vord, and moreover fuch are all \Vars
~t this Day: The Wars defcribed in the Word, are
thofe which were carried on by the Children of If.
yael with various Nations, as with the Amorites, the
4\mmonites, the Moabites_, the Philiflines, the Syri~
~ ~ ~ .. . ... .
ans,
. '
;358 ANGELIC 'VISDOM CONCERNING .
ans, the Egyptians, the Chald~:1ns, the A:!Tyrians ;
and when the Children of Ifrael, who reprefcnted
the Church, departed from their Precepts e1nd Stat~
utes, and fell into the Evils, which were lignified by
thofe Nations, (for each particular Nation, with
which the Children of lfrael waged Vhr, fignified
fame particular Kind of Evil) then they were pun-
ifhed by that Nation: For Example, when they pro-
faned the holy Things of the Church by foul Idola-
tries, they were punifhed by the A:!Tyrians and Chal-
dxans, becaufe by A:!Tyria <lnd Chalda:a is fignified
the Profanation of what is holy : \Vhat is fignified
by the Wars with the Phili!l:ines, may be feen in
THE DocTRINE oF THE NEw ]ERDSALEM coN:-:
CERNING FAITH, n. 50 to 54· Simihr Things are
reprefented by Wars at this Day, wherefoever they
be ; for all the Things which are done in the natu~
ral vVorld, correfpond with fpiritual Things in the
fpiritual World, and all fpiritual Things concern the
Church. It is not known in this \Vorld, which are
the Kingdoms in Chrifiendom, that reprefent the
Moabites and Ammonites, which the Syrians and
Philifiines, and which the Chalda:ans and Alfy-
rians, and the refi with whom the Children of Ifrael
waged Wars ; neverthelefs there are Kingdoms in
Chrifiendom which reprefent thefe People. Dut
what the State and QEality of the Church llpon
Earth is, and what the Evils are, into which it lap.
fes, and by Reafon of which it is punifhed with
d Wars, cannot at all be feen in the natural 'World,
becaufe in that World Externals only appear, which
do not confiitute the Church ; but it is feen in the
fpiritual World, wher.e Ipternals appear, which d~
<:;on!liq.It~
T 'nE DIVINE PRoVID-
ENC.t:. :JS9
tonflitute the Church ; and in the fpiritual \Vorld,
all are conjoined according to their various States :
The ConfliCts of thefc in the fpiritual World cOl·ref-
pond to \Vars, which on both Sides are governed
correfpondently by the Lord according· to his Divine
Providence. That Vvars in this \Vorld arc govern:.-
ed by the DiYine Providence of the Lord, is ac-
knowledged by the fpiritual Man, but not by the
naturatM-an, exce-pt when a Fafl: is appointed in Con-
' fequence of a Vitl:ory, and then he can give Thank~
to God upon his Knees who hath given the Vitl:ory,
and alfo offer up a fcv1 Ejaculations before he goeth
to Battle ; but when he returns to himfdf, then he
either afcribes the Vitl:ory to the Prudence of the
General, or to fame Meafure or Incident in the
Midfl: of the Battle, which ther had not thought ofi
and by which neverthelefs the Vitl:0ry was decided.-
That the Divine Providence, -;rhich is called For"'
tune, operates in the mort minute Particulars even
of trifling Things1 may be fecn above, n. 2 12 ; ifyou
acknowledge the Divine Providence in fuch Things,
much more will you acknowledge it in the Con-
cerns- of War: Moreover Succeffes and Advanta-
ges, obtained in 'Var, are commanly called the
Fortune of \Var,-'and this is the Divine Providence,
operating efpecially in the Councils and Defigns
meditated by the General, although he at the Time;
and afterwards, may afcribc the whole to his own
Prudence. This he may do if he will, for he is at
full Liberty to think either in F:wour of the Divine
Providence, or againfl: it, yea either in Fa\'our of
God or againfl: him, but yet let him know, that net
the fxr.::tl!efl: Particular of his Councils, or of the Ex-
pedients.
360 ANGELIC '\VISDOM: CONCERNINd
pedients devifed by him, is from hi'mfelf ~ they all
enter by Influx from Heaven, or from Hell, fro1d
Hell by Permifii,:m, and from Heaven by the Divine ,
Providence.
25-:. IV. That the vVorjh-
ipper ofSelfand the Wor-
,p_,ipper ofNature co;'!.firmeth hin!felfagaii!fl the Divine
Providence, when he tliinketh according to his' Perccp:
tion, that Viaorics declare on the Side of Prudence, and
fometilnes not on the Side of'Jz!ftice :· !l'!oreover that it,
maketh no D~lfcnnce, whether the General be a good
lVLm, or a wicked Man. The Reafon \\•hy it feems
as if ViD:ory declared on the Side of Pi'udence, and·
fometimes not on the Side of Jufl:ice, is, becaufe Man
judgeth from· Appearance~ and favoureth one Party
more than another, and that which he favoureth he
can confirm by Rea~mings,, neither kno\Veth he
that the Jufl:ice of the Caufe in Heaven is fpirit'ual)
and in this \Vorld natural as was before obferved,
and <hat they arc joined by a Connexion of Things·
P,aft and to carne, which are known only to the
Lord.- Tha·t it maketh·no Difference whether the
General be a gobtl or a wicked 1\'lah, is o\ving to'
the fame Caufe, which is afligned above~ n.· 25o;
viz. that the ·wicked perform Ufes a'S well as the·
Good, and indeed the \Vicked\ from the Fire pe:
culiar to themfelves, more ardently than th::: Good;;
efpecially in \Vars, becaufe a wicked Man is r'nore·
crafty and cunning in devifing d~ceitful Contrivan.:
ces, and from the Love of Glory receives Pleafure
ii1 killing and plundering thofe whom he knoweth
and declareth to be Enemies, which is not the Cafe
with a good Man, who is only influenced by Pru.
dence and Zeal in defending himfelf, and rarely by
any
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 361:
:my Prudence or Zeal in invading others. The
Cafe herein is the fame as with the Spirits of Hell,
and the Angels of Heaven ; the Spirits of Hell
affault, and the Angels of Heaven defend themfelves.
Hence this Conclufion may be deduced, that it is
allowable for any one to defend his Country and
Affociates againft invading Enemies, even by Means
of wicked Generals, but that it is not allowable to
make themfelves Enemies without a Caufe: When
Motives of Glory alone are the Caufe, it is in itfelf
diabolical, for this is of Self-Love.
ZS3· Thus far have been explained the Things ad-
duced above, n. 237, by which the merely natural
Man confirmeth himfelf againft the Divine Provi-
dence; we fhall now proceed to explain the Cir-
cumftances which are taken Notice of in the Num-
ber following, 238, relating to the Religions of ma-
ny Nations, which may alfo ferve the merely natur-
al Man as Arguments againft tl Divine Provi-
dence; for he faith in his Heart, how can fo many
difcordant Religions exift throughout the vVorld, and
why doth not one true Religion prevail univerfally,
if the Divine Providence hath for its End a Heaven
out of the human Race, as is !hewn above, n. 27
to 45? But hear, I befeech you; all who are born
Men, in whatfoevcr Religion they may be principled,
are capable of being faved, provided they acknowl-
edge a God, and Jive according to the Command-
ments of the Decalogue, which are, not to kill, not
to commit Adultery, not to fl:eal, not to bear falfe
Witnefs, by Reafon that to do fuch Things is con-
trary to Religion, therefore againft God: In fuch
Perfons there is the Fear of God and Love of their
X x Neighbour,
362 ANGELIC \VISDOJ.\I CONCERNING
Neighbour, the Fear of God, becaufe they thini:';
that to do fuc_h Things is to act againf!: God, aiH.l
a Love of their Neighbour, becaufe to kill, to com-1
mit Adultery, to ileal, to beJr falfe \Viti1efs, and to
covet their Neighbour's Haufe and his ·wife, is to
act againil their Neighbou~; thefe Perfons, inaf~
much as they refpect God in their Lives, and do no
.Evil to their Neighbour, are led of the Lord, and
..the·)r who are fo led, are alfo taug·ht JccordinP. to
. ,.,
their Religion concerning God and their Neigh-
bour; for they who fo live, love to be taught, but
they who li;re otherw;fe, do,not love to be taught;
and inafmtrch ls they love to be taught, after DeatH
alfo, when they become Spirits, they are infl:ructed
by the Angels, ar!"d willingly receive Truths, fuch
as are contained in the \iVo:d: On this SubjeCt
Something may be feen in THE DocTRINE OF THE
NEw JERUSALEM· CONCERNING THE SACRED
ScRIPTURE, n. 1 to 97 ;' and 104 to r'r3.
254. I. That the merely natz~ral Man co'!J'irmetb
hin!felfagail!ft the Di-·dnc Provide-nce, r:.vhen he cOJ!fid-'
ers the Religions ofvarious Nations, tbat there arefame
who are totally ignorant ofa God, andfame wbo ador.:
the Sun and Mcon; andfome a!fo who adore Idols an3
gra':len Images. They who from· thefe Circumfl:an-
ces deduce Arguments againil .the Di·,ine Provi-'
dence, do not know the A:cana of Heaven,- which'
are innumerable, whereof ftarcely one cometh to'
the KnowleJge of Man ; for among thefe Arcana'
this is one, that Man is not taught immediately
from Heaven, Lut mediately, on which SubjeCt fee
n. 154 to 174 alJo\'e; and inafmmh ;:~she is taught
mediately, anJ. the Gofpd cvulJ. not by E::1iffarie1
be
. THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. J63
he extended to all who inhabit the whole Earth, but
j;et fome Religion could be ha~ded down by Yarious
l\le:mseven to the Gentiles, whoare in the re.mote Cor,..
ners of the F.arth, therefore this was effcCled by the
Di\·ine Providence ; for no l\Ian hath any Religion
from himfelf, but through fome other Perfon, who
~ither knew himfelf frvm the \Vord or had learned
by Tradition from' others, that there is a God, that
there is a HeaYen and Hell, and a Life after Death,
a~d that God is to be wodhipped in Order that
Man may be happy. That Religion hath been
tranfplanted m·er the whole Earth from the ancient
\Vord, and afterwards from the HraelitiflJ \Vord,
may be feen in THE DocTRINE OF THE NEw ]E~
RUSALEI\1 CONCERNING THE SACRED SCRIPTURE,
n. 101 to JOJ; and that without the \Vo!d no one
could have known any Thing of a God, of Heaven
and Hell, or of a Life after Death, much lefs any
Thing of the Lord, may be feen, n. 1 I 4 to 1 I 8 of
the fame Tracl:. \iVhen once a Religion is implant":'
ed in any Nation, that Nation is led of the Lord
according to the Precepts and Tenets of their Re-
pgion; and the Lord provideth that in every Religion
there .{hould be Precepts of fuch a Nature as there
are in the Decalogue, as that God ought to be wor-
fhipped, his Name not profaned, Fefiivals to be
pbferved, Parents honoured, l\I1.1rder not cornmitted,
neither Adultery, nor Theft, and falfe Tefiimony
pot given ; the Nation which maketh tbcfe Precepts
Divine, and liveth according to them from a Princi-
ple of Religion, is favcJ, as was faid above, n. 253:
l\Joreover mcfl of the Nations, which are remote
flDm the.Chrifl:ian \Vorld, confider thefe Laws, not
a&
364 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
as civil, but as Divine, and hold them facred : That
Man is faved by a Life according to thefe Precepts,
may be feen in THE DocTRINE oF THE NEw .JE-
RUSALEM FROM THE PRECEPTS OF THE DECA~
LOGUE, from Beginning to End. Among the Ar-
cana of Heaven this alfo is one, that the Angelic
Heaven is in the Sight of the Lord as one Man,
whofe Soul and Life the Lord is, and that this
Divine Man is in every Particular of his Form a
Man, not only as to his external Members and Or-
gans,but alfo as to his internal Members and Organs,
which are many, and likewife as to the Skin, Mem..
branes, Cartilages, and Bones ; none of thefe Parts
ho\vever in that Man are material, but they are all
fpiritual ; and it is provided by the Lord, that they
alfo to whom the Gofpel could not reach, but only
fome Sort of Religion, may likewife have a Place
in that Man, that is, in Heaven, by confl:ituting the
Parts called the Skin, Membranes, Cartilages, and
Bones ; and that they may live equally as well as
others in heavenly Joy; for it maketh no Difference,
whether a Perfon be in fuch Joy as is experienced
by the Angels of the highefl: Heaven, or in fuch Joy
as is experienced by the Angels of the lowefl: Heav-
en, inafmuch as every one, who is received into
Heaven, entereth into the fupreme or full Joy of
his Hearr, and greater than that he cannot fupport~
for thereby he would be fuffocated : The Cafe is
comparatively as it is with an Hufbandman and a
King; the Iluibandman may be in a State of the
·greatefi: Happinefs, when he goes clad in a new
S uit of coarfe Worfled Apparel, and fits down to a
T able furnifhed with plain and \vholefome Food;
and
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 365
and fuch a Man would be dHl:reiTed at Heart, if he
were to be cloathed like a King in Purple, Silk, Gold,
and Silver, and a Table ·were fet out for him, with
Delicacies of various Kinds, expcnfive and exquifite,
and generous Wines; from which Confideration it
is evident, that the lafl: in Heaven, as well as the
firll:, have celeftial . Felicity, each in his Degree ;
and confequently they alfo enjoy fuch Felicity, who
are without the Chrifiian \Vorld, provided they fhun
Evils as Sins againft God, becaufe they are contrary
to Religion. ~ There are fame few, who are totally
ignorant with Refpe& to God ; but that thefe, if.
they have lived a moral Life, are inftruaed after
Death by Angels, and in their moral Life receive a
fpiritual Principle, may be feen in the DocTRINE oF
THE NEW JERUSALEM CONCERNING THE SACRED
ScRIPTURE, n. 116. The Cafe is the fame with
thofe who worfhip the Sun and Moon, and think
that God is therein ; they know no otherwife,
wherefore it is not imputed to them as a Sin, for
the Lord faith, Ifye were blind, that is, if ye did not
know, ye would have no Sin, John _ix. 41. But there
are many, who worfhip Idols and Images, even in
the Chriftian World; this indeed is idolatrous, but
not in all ; for there are fame, to whom Images ferve
as Means of exciting them to think of God ; for by
Virtue of Influx from Heaven, he who acknowledg-
eth God, wifheth to fee him, and Perfons of this
Defcription, forafmuch as they cannot elevate the
Mind above Things fenfual, like thofe who are in-
teriorly fpiritual, awaken in themfelves an Idea of
him from a Statue or graven Image; they who do
this) and do not adore the Image itfdf as a God, if
they
s66 ANcEtrc \V1snoM c.oN.cERNlNq
they alfo liYe according to the Precepts of the Dec:-
alogue from a Principle of Religion, are favcd.
Hence it is evident, that forafmuch as the Lord will~
eth the Sah'ation of all, he hath alfo pr.o.vided that
every one may have fome Plac.e in IIeaycn, if fo be
he liveth well. That Heaven before the Lord is as
ope Man, and that thence Heav.~n correfpoods to
all and fingular theThings appertaining to Man; and
that there are ,al(o fome :who reprefent the Skin, the
Membranes, Cartilages, and Dones, may be feen in
the \Vork concerning H~AVEN AND I-hLL, pub.
lifhed in London 1758, n. 59 to 102: Alfo in the
ARCANA CmLEST~A, n,. sssz,to sss6; and likewife
above, n. 201 to q,o4. · · ·
255· II. 'I'hc.t the merely natural J..Ian co'!firmcth
hin!ftlf agah!ft tpf Di•vine Providence, when he cor!fid-
·ers the }IJabomctan Religion, how it is received by .fo
1TJany Empires and Kingdoms : That this Religion
is received by a greater Number of ~ingd01:ns th::.q
the Chriflian Religion, may be Matter ofScanc!f!l tq
thofe, who think of the Divine Pro\'idence, and at
the fame Time imagin.e, that no one can be faved,
except he be born a Chriflian, confequently in a
Country where the vVord is pofl~!fed, by Means of
which the Lord is known : But the l\1ahop1etan
Religion is no Matter of Scandal to tJlOfe, who be-
lieve that all Things are of the Divine Providence ;
thefe inquire wherein fuch Providence can be traced,
and alfo find it out ; 'it may be traced in this Cir-
cumflance, that the Mahometan Religion acknowl-
edgeth the Lord to be the Son of God, the wifefl: of
Men, and the greatefl of Prophets, who came intq
the \Vorld to teach l\1cn ; mofl: IVIahometans there~
fore
Tr:lE D"rvri'E. PRovu)nN.c:E. 367
A \
:ore· confider the Lord as greater than l\Iahomet;
For the better underfl:anding how this Religion
was raifed up by the Divine Providence of the Lord,
for the Purpofe of J efhoying the Idolatry of many
Nations, we :fhall confider the S1bjecr in an orderly
Arrangemen.t, beginning with fame Obfervations
concerning the Oiigin of Idolatries. Previous to
the Religion of1\iahomet, the vVorfhip of Idols was
common over the whole Earth :· The Reafon was;
becaufe the Churches, before· the Lord's Coming;
were all reprefentative Churches; fuch alfo was the
Ifraelitifh Church, their Tabernacle, the G·arments·
of A::uon, their Sacrifices, all Things app~rtaining to
t'he Temple at Jerufalem, and alfo their Statutesj
were reprefentative ; and among the Ancients the
Science of Corrcfpondences was underfl:ood, which
is alfo the Science of Reprefentations, and the pe.:
culiar Science of their wife Men; culrivatecr particu..;
larly in Egypt, wherke they had their Hieroglyph~·
ks : By Virtue of this Science; they krtdv what was;
lignified by all Kinds of Animals, alfo by Trees of al~
Kinds, and·moreover what was fignified by Moun.:
tains·,· Hills, Rivers, Fountains,· as well as by the
Suri, Muon, and- Stars ; <:nd whereas an their Di'-·
vine \Vor£hip wa3 reprefentativc, confifl:ing of mere·
Correfpondence3', therefore they celebrated their re~·
ligious Rites upon Mountains and Hill'S, and alfo in'
Groves and Gardens, and for the fame Reafon they'
confecrated Fountains, and turned their Faces to-
wards the Eafl in their Adorations of God, and more-·
over made to themfelves carved Images of H~rfes;
Oxen, Calves, Lambs:, yea of Birds, Fillies, and
Serpents, and placed them. in their Houfes and oth-·
Cl',
j68 ANctLic WrsbOM coNCERNING
er Places, in a certain Order, according to the fpirit·
ual Things of the Church, to which they corref-
ponded, or which they reprefented. They did the
like in their Temples, that they might recal to their
Memories the holy Things which they fignified.
In Procefs of Time, when the Science of Correfpon-
dences was lofl:~ their Pofl:erity began to wor!hip
the Images themfelves as facred, not knowing that
their Ancefl:ors faw Nothing facred in them, but
that only according to Correfpondences they repre-
fented and thereby fignified Things facred. Thence
arofe th"e Idolatries, which filled the whole Earth,
as well Afia and its circumjacent I!lands, as Africa
and Europe. 'Jo the End that all thefe Idolatries
might be extirpated, it was permitted by the Divine
Providence of the Lord, that a new Religion fhould
arife, accommodated to the Genius of the Eafl:ern
Nations; in which there fhould be Something out
of both Tefl:aments of the \V"ord, and which !hould
teach that the Lord came into the World, and that
He was the grand Prophet, [maximus Propheta] the
wifefl: of all, and the Son of God : This was effeCt-
ed by Mahomet, from whom that Religion is called
the Mahometan Religion. This Religion was raif-
ed up by the Divine Providence of the Lord, and
accommodated, as was obferved, to the Genius of
the Eafl:ern Nations, to the End that it might de-
ftroy the Idolatries which at that Time fo generally
prevailed, and give the Inhabitants of thofe Coun-
tries fome Knowledge of the Lord, before they came
into the fpiritual \Vorld ; which Religion would
not have been received by fo many Kingdoms, nor
have had Power to extirpate their Idolatries, if it
had
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 369
had not been accommodated and adapted to the
Ideas and Mode of Life prevailing amongft them all.
The Reafon why they did not acknowledge the
Lord as the God of Heaven and Earth, was becaufe
the Eaftetn Nations acknowledged a God the Crea.
tor of the Univerfe, but could not comprehend that
He Himfelf came into the World, and took upon
Him the human Nature; as neither do the Chrif-
tians comprehend, who therefore in Thought fepa-
rate his Divinity from his Humanity, and place his
Divinity befide the Father in Heaven, and his Hu-
manity they know not where. Hence it may be
feen, that the Mahometan Religion alfo had its Or.
igin in the Divine Providence of the Lord ; and that
all they of that Religion, who acknowledge the ·
Lord as the Son of God, and at the fame Time live
according to the Precepts of the Decalogue, which
they alfo are in Poifeffion of, by fhunning Evils as
Sins, are received into that Heaven which is called
the Mahometan Heaven : That Heaven alfo is divid.
ed into three Heavens, a fupreme, a n1iddle, and a
lowefl:; in the fupreme Heaven are thofe who ac-
knowledge the Lord to be one with tpe Father,
and confequently that' he is the only God : In the
fecond Heaven are thofe who _
renounce a Plurality
of Wives, and live with one only; and in the ulti-
mate Heaven, are thofe who are initiated. More
Information concerning this Rdigion may be had
from THE CoNTINUATION coNCERNING THE
LAsT juDGMENT AND THE SPIRITUAL WoRLD~
n. 68 to 72, where the Mahometans and Mahomet
are treated of.
YY
37o ANGELIC vVISDOM CONCElUVING
1.56. Ill. That the merely 11atural Nlan cot!firnu:th
hi11ydf agai?£/l tbe Divine Providence, r;.ohm heJus
that tbe Chrb1ian Religion is received only in theJina/1-
cjl .f&.zrter of the habitable Gkbr:, 'l.uhit:b is called Eu-
rope, and tbat there it is divided: The Reafon why
the ChriHian Religion is eftabliftd only in the fmall-
e11: ~1arter of the habitable Globe, called Europe,
is, becaufe it was not fo well accommodatell to the
Genius of the Eafl:ern Nations, as the Mahometan
Religion, which is mixed, as was fhewn abo\'e, and
a Religion is not received by thofe to whom it is not
<lccommodated; as for Example; a Religion which
forbids the having more than one \Vife, is not re-
. ceived, but reje<:l:ed by thofe, who for fame Ages
back have been addiaed to Polygamy ; it is lhe
fame with RefpeEt to fome other Particulars infifl:ed
upon by the Chri11:ian Religion. Neither , doth it
fignify whether it be received by a greater or a
fmaller Part ofthe vVorld, provided there be a Peo-
ple, who are in Po!feilion 0f the \Von!, for thence
Light is neverthelefs received by thofe who are out
of the Church, and have not the \Vord, a3 is fhewn
in THE DocTRINE oF THE NEw jERUSALEM
coNCERNING THE SACRED ScRIPTURE, n. 104
to 113 ; and what is wonderful, where the Word
is read with Devotion, ~nd the Lord i-s worfhipped
out of the \¥ord, there the Lord is, with Heaven ;
the Reafon is, becaufe the Lord is the "\Vord, and
the \Vord is Divine Truth, which confl:itutes Heav-
en, wherefore the Lord faith, " H'bert? tu·o or three
are gathered tr;gether in my Name, there am I in the
A1icfft ofthem," Matt. xviii. 20; this may be effctl-
ed with the \Vord in many Parts of the habitable
Globe
TnE DIVINE P.ROYIDENCE. 371
Globe by the Europc:ms, bccaufe they have Com~
munication with the '"hole \Vorld, and they every
where either read the \Vord or teach from it: This
2ppc:~rs like a FiCl:ion, but fl:ill it is true. The Rea~
fnn why the Chriilian Religion is di\•ided, is, becaufe
it is derived from the Word, and the YVord is writ~
ten by mere Correfpondences, and Correfpond~nccs
are for the mofi: P.ut Appearances of Truth, in
which neverthelefs genuine Truths lie concealed;
and forafmuch as the DoCl:rine of the Church is to
be drawn from the literal Senfe of the \Vord, which
is of fuch a Nature, there could not but exifi: in the
Church Difputes, Controverfies, .J.nd Diffentions, ef~
pccially with Refpea to the Meaning of the Word,
but not with ~efpefr to the V..Tord itfelf, and the ·
Lord's Divinity itfdf; for it is every where acknowl-
edged that the \Vord is holy, and that the Lord is
Divine, and thcfe two are Effentials of the Church ;
wherefore alfo they who deny the Lord's Divinity,
as they do who are called Socinians, are excommu~
nicated from the Church ; and they who deny the
SanCl:ity of the \Vord, are not reputed as Chrifl:ians.
To this I will add a memorable Circumfi:ance rela-
ting to the \Vord, from which it may be concluded,
that the \Vord interiorly is Divine Truth itfelf, and
intimately the Lord: When any Spirit opens the
Word, and rubs his Face or his Clothes with it, then
his Face or his Clothes, barely by being rubbed
with it, fhine as bright as the Moon or as a Star,
and this in the Sight of all whom he meets ; this is
a Proof, that there is Nothing in the World more
holy than the Word. That the \Vord is writ-
~n by mere Correfpondcnces, may be feen in THE
DocTRINE
DocTRINE oF THE NEw }ERU~ALEM coNCERN:
ING THE SAcRED ScRirTuRE, n. 5 to 26. That
the Doftrine .of the Church is tq be dedu~ed from·
the literal Senfe of the \Vord, and confirm~d by it,
jn the fame, n. 50 t~ 61. ·That Herefie's may b~
derived from the literal Senfe 9f the Word, bq~
that .to confirm them is hurtful, n.' 91 to 97· Tha~
the Church exifl:s from the Word, and that it$
~ality i~ accordipg to its p_nderfiand~ng · of th~
\\ford, n. 76 to 79·
ZS7· IV. That the merely natural Man (onjirmeth
hin!felfagairifl the Divine Providence, becau/e in many.
Kingdoms, where the Chrfflimi Religion is' received, ,
there areJome who claim to themfelves Divine Power?
and difzre to be.u•orjhippcd as Gods; and that they in-
'.voke dead Jlrfen. They fay indeed that they have
not arrogated to themfelyes Divine Power, and that
they do not. defire to be worfhipped as Gods ; but
yet they fay that they can open and lhut Heaven,
and remit and retain Sins, and confequently fave
and contlemn Men~ and this is the Prer9gative of
Divinity itfelf; for the Divine Providence hath
Nothing elfe fm~ its End, but the Reforma tion and
thereby th~ Salvation ot Mankind ; thi~ is its con:
i:inual Operation with every one; and Salvation
~annat · be effefred but by an Acknowledgmen~
~f the Lord'~ Divinity, and Confidence that it is
wrought by Him, when Man liveth acc~rding tq
his Commandments : Who cannot fee, that this is
the Babylon defcribed in the Revelation, and th~
Babel treated of in ·many Part~ of the Prophets ;
that this is alto meant by Lucifer in Ifaiah, Chap.
~iv. is evident from the 4th and 22d Verfes of that
...· · · - · · ·· · Chapter, '
'f~E DIVINE PROVIPENCE. 373
~hapter, in ~vhich are the following Words," Thou
jhalt declare this Parable concerning the King ofBaby-
lon," Verfe 4 ; afterwards, " I will cut o.fffrom Baby-
/on the nameand' Remnant," Verfe 22d; from which
jt is evident, that Babylon is there fignified by Lu-
qfer, of whqm it is faid, "HQw art thoufallenfrom
Heaven, 0 Lucifer, Son ofthe Morning: For thou
hafiJaid in thine Heart, I will afcend into Heaven, I
~ill e."<alt my Throne above the Stars ofGod; I ·will
fit ,a(fo upotz the Mount ofthe Congregation, in the Sides
of.r:./Je North'; I will afcend above the Heights of the
Ctqud!, I will be like the Mofi High," Verfe 12, 13,
. 14· That they invoke dead Men, and offer up Pray..
ers to them for Succour, is well known: It is af-
firmed that they invoke them, becaufe the Invocation
of them is efi:abliihed by a Papal Bull, confirming
the Decree of the Council of Trent, in which it is
ope~ly faid that they are to be invoked; yet who
doth not know that God alone is to be invoked, and
not any dead Man? But it !hall now be !hewn why
the Lord permitted fuch Things : That he permit-
ted them for a certain End, which End is Salvation,
cannot be denied ; for it is well known, that with-·
out the lord there is no Salvation, and inafmuch as
this is the Cafe, there was a Nece!Iity that the
Lord fhould be preached out of the "\:Vord, and
thereby the Chriflian Church eflabliihed; but this
could not be effeD:ed but by Leaders [Antifrgnani,]
who 1hould do it with Zeal; nor were there any
others to be had, but fuch as were heated, as it
. were with Zeal, from the Fire of Self-Love ; this
Fire firfl excited them to preach the Lord and teach
the Vvord; from this their primitive Sfate it is, that
Luc!fi:r
374 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
Lucifer is caf!ed the Son oftbe Morning, Verfe 12.
l3ut as they came to fee, that they fhould be able to
have Dominion by Means of the holy Things of
the Word and of the Church, Self-Love, by \vhich
they were firfr excited to preach the Lord, broke
out from within, and at length exalted itfelf to fuch
a Height, that they transferred all the Divine Pow-
er of the Lord to themfelves, not leaving him any.
This could not be prevented by the Divine Provi-
dence of the Lord, for if it had been prevet1tcd,
they would have proclaimed that the Lord "'a:h1ot
God, and the \Vord not facred, and would'.h:r\'e
turned Socinians or Arians, and fo would have de-
ftroyed the whole Church ; which, whatfoever the
Charaft(i:r of its Rulers may be, fiill remains among
the People who are uader . them ; for all they of
that Religion, who alfo approach the Lord, and
fhun Evils as Sins, are faved ; for which Rt:afon
there ate many celefl:ial Societies of thein in the
fpiritual V\Torld; and it is alfo ·provided, that there
ihould be among them a Nation which hath not
fubmitted to the Yoke of fuch a Dominion, and
which confiders the \Vord as facred, which is the
noble French Nation. But what was the Confc-
quence? ·when Self-Love had exalted its Domin.
ion even unto the Throne of the Lord, had re-
moved Him thence, and placed itfdf upon it, this
Love; which is Lucifer, could not do othcrwife
than profane all Things appertaining to the \Vord
and the Church ; and to prevent this, the Lord fo
ordered it of his Divine Providence, that they
fhould depart from the \Vorfhip of Him, and in-
,·oh dead :Men, pray to Images of fuch, kif~
their
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. . 37S
their Bones, profl:rate themfelves at their Sepulchres,
forbid the \Vord to be read, and place the Sanctit)'
of Divine lNodl1ip in Mafics not underfl:ood by the
Vulgar, and fell Salvation for Money; inafmuch as
if they had not done thefe Things, they would have
profaned the holy Thing-s of the Word and of the
Church; for, as was !hewn in the preceding Para-
graph, none can profane Things facred, but th;:y
who know fuch Things. Therefore that they mihht
not profane the mofl: holy Supper, it is of the Di-
vine Providence of the Lord, that they iliould di·
vide it, and give the Bread to th·:! People, and drink
the \Vine themfelves ; for the \:Vine in the holy
Supper fignifies ·holy Truth, and the Bread holy
Good, but when they are divided, the Wine fig-
nifies Truth profaned, and the Bread Good adulter-
ated ; and it is provided moreover that they fhouhl
make it corporeal and material, and account this
DoEtrine to be a primary Tenet of Religion. He
~vho attends to thefe Particulars, and weighs them
in, fame Illumination of Mind, may fee the wonder-
ful Operation of the Divine Providence, in guarding
the holy Things of the Church, and faving all
who are capable of being favcd, and fnatching as it
were out of the Fire thofe who will fuffer thcm-
felves to be fnatched away.
2 58. V. '1hat the merely natural J..1an co'!firmetb
himfclf again.fl the Divine Providence from this Cir~
tumjlancc, that among thqfe who profifs the Chr!Jlian
Religion, there arefome who place Salvation in certait;
vVords which tbey are to think and jpc~k, and not iJZ
any Good they are to do: That Perfons of this De-
fcription are fuch as make Salvation to confift in
Faith
376 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
Faith alone, and not in a Life df Charity, confe;
quently who feparate Faith from Charity, is iliewn
in THE DocTRINE oF THE NEw jERUSALEM CON·
cERNr:f.w FAITH) and alfo that they are meant in the
vVord by the Philiflines, by the Dragon, and by the
Goats. That fuch a DoCtrine is alfo permitted, i~
of the bivine Providence, in Order that the Lord's
Divinity and the SanCtity of the \Vord might not be
profaned ; the Lord's Divinity is not profaned, when
Salvation is placed in the uttering of thefe Words,
'' That God the Father would have Mercy for the
Sake of his Son; who fuffered on the Crofs, and
made SatisfaCtion for us ;" for by ufing this Form
of Words, they do not approach the Lord's Divinity,.
but his Humanity, which they do not acknowledge
to be Divine ; neither is the Word profaned, becaufe
they do not attend to thofe Paffages where Mention
is made of Love, and of Charity; and of doing
Good, and of Works; all thefe they fay are con-
tained in the Faith of the above Form of \Vords;
and they who confirm themfelves herein, fay to them.:
felves, the Law doth not condemn me; therefore nei~
ther doth Evil, and Good doth not fave me, becaufe
Good from myfelf is not Good ; wherefore they
are like thofe who do not know any Tmth out of
the Word, and for that Reafon cannot profane it.
But Faith in the above Form of Words is not con-
firmed by any; except thofe who from Self-Love
are in the Pride of Self-derived Intelligence, neither
are they Chrifl:ians in their Hearts, but only defire
to feem fuch. That neverthelefs the Divine Provi-
dence of the Lord continually operates, that they,
may be faved, with whom Faith feparated from
Charity
Tu:E DniNE PROVIDE!'\CE. 377
Charity is made the yround of Religion, fhall now
be lhewn : It is of the Divine Providence of the
Lord, that although this Fairh is made the Effm-
tial of Religion, fl:ill every one kr.owe~h, that this
Faith does not fave, but a Life of Chzirity v;ith
which Faith aB:cth as one; for in all the Churches
where this Religion is received it is taught, that
there is no Salvation; except a l\Ian examir:.e him•
felf; fee his Sins, acknowledge them, repent, d:::fift
from them, and enter upon a new Courfe of Life ;
this is read with much Zeal before thofe who ap-
proach the holy Supper; and it is added; that un-
lefs they do this, they mix Things holy and profane;
and caft themfelves into eternal Damnation; yea in
England, that unlefs they do this, the D evil "'"ill en•
ter into them as he did into Judas, ~md deftroy
them both Soul and Bodv: Hence it is evident,
that evety one in the Chm ~he~, where Faith alone
is received, is taught neverthelefs that E-.-its are to
be fhunned as Sins. Moreover, every one who is
born a Chriflian, knoweth alfo that EYils arc to be
lhunned as Sins, by Reafon that the Dcc:!logue is
put into the Hands of every Boy and Girl, and is
taught by Parents and 1\lafters ; like..,vife all !.'he
Subjech of a Kingdom, particularly the common
People, are examined by the Priel1: out of the Dec~
alogue which they have got by Heart, what they
know of the Chrifl:ian Religion, and arc alfo admor.-
ilhed to do the Things that are contair..ed therein ;
at fuch Times, they are never tolc..l by any P: icfl:
that they are not under the Yoke of th;lt Law, nor
that they cannot do the Things therein commanded,
becaufe they cannot do any Good from thcmfe!vc::.
Z z The
378 ANGELIC vVISDOM CONCERNING
The Athanafian Creed is alfo received by the whole
Chriftian World, and what is faid in the laA: Part
of it is acknowledged, namely, that the Lord will
c0me to judge both the ~-;ick and the Dead, and
then they who ha·ve done Good fhall enter into ever~
lafting Life, and they who ha·ve dri!ze E'vif into ever~
JailingFire. In SwEDE~, where the Religion ofFaith
alone is received, it is alfo plainly taught that there
is no Faith feparate from Charity, or without good
\Vorks, and this in a certain Memorial annexed and
inferted in all the Books of the l~falms, whi(h is en.
titled Impediments or Stumbling Blocks to the Im~
penitent, (OBoTFERDIGAS FoERHINDER) in which
there are thefe Words, "They who are rich in
good Vvorks iliew thereby that they are rich in
Faith, becaufe when Faith is faving, it operateth by
Charity ; for juftifying Faith never exifl:eth alone
and feparate from good \Vorks, as there is no good
Tree without Fruit, no Sun without Light and
Heat, and no \Vater without Moifl:ure." Thefe fe\v
Circumfl:ances are adduced that it may be known,
that although the Religion of Faith alone is receiv.
cd, fiill the Goods- of Charity, which are good
\Vor.k:s, are every where taught, and that this is of
the Divine Providence of the Lord, }t;fi the com.
mon People fuoukl thereby be feduced. I have
heard Luther, with whom I have fomctimes con-
verfed in the fpiritual \Vorld, curfe Solifidianifm,
and fay, that when he efl:ablifhed it, he was warned
by an Angel of the Lord not to do it ; but that he
thought with himfelf, that if he did not rejeB
vVorks, there wodd be no fcparation effeCted from
.the Roman Catholic Reli~ion, for which Reafoa
he
TH:!! DIVINE PttOVIDENC!. 37~
he confirmed that Faith contrary to the Warning he
had received.
z59· VI. 'That the merely natural Man coi:Jirmcth
hin!fc(f agail!fl the Divine P1·ovidcnce, becazfc there
have been, andjli!l arefo many Hcrcjics in the Chrif-
tian World, firch as tlxf
c q{ the .0Jakers, Moravians,
Anabaptijls, and others; for he can think with him-
-felf, if the Divine Providence, by Means of its Ope-
ration in every Particular, were unh·crfal, and had
in View the Salvaticn of all, it would have eflab-
lifhed one true Religion throughout the \Vorld,
and not have fuffered it to be divided, much lefs
torn to Pieces by H erefies : But ufe your Reafon,
and think with more Elevation of Mind, if you are
able, and then tell me, can a Man be faved unlefs
he be firft reformed ? for he is born to the J.ove
of Self and of the \Vorld, and forafmuch as thefe
Loves do not contain in them any Love towards
God, or any Love towards his Neighbour, except
for the Sake of Self, he is rtlfo born into all Kinds
of Evils : For, is there a fingle Spark of Love or
Mercy in thofe Loves ? Doth he make any Account ·
of defrauding another, blafphemiug him, hating
him even to the Death, committing Adultery with
his "Wife, raging againft him 'vhen he is in a re-
vengeful Humour ? inafmuch as the Thing neareft
to his Heart is, that he may be fupreme oYer all,
confequemly he confiders others in Comparifon
with himfelf :lS vile, and of no Eflimation ; in Or-
der that fuch a one may be faved, muft he not firft
be drawn away from thefe Evils, and fo reformed ?
That this cannot be effected but in Conformity to
fcveral Laws, which 3rre Laws of the Divine Provi.
dence,
JSO ANGELI~ WISDOM CONCERNING
dencc, is fully fl1ewn abov~ ; which Laws for the:
moll: Part are unknown, and yet, they p.re Laws of
the Divine Wifdom? and at tl1e fame Time of th(!
Didnc Love, againfl: which the Lord cannot act~
for to aEt againfl: them, wou~d be to defl:roy Man,
and not to f~ve him ; read over again the Law$
which haye been adduced, comp;ue them, and you
will lee. Therefore fince it is conformab~e to thofe
Laws, that there fhould not be any immediate In-
f.ux from Heaven, but mediate through the \Vord,
through DoCtrines and Preachings.1 and fince the
Vvord, that it might be Divine, could not be writ~
ten but by mere Correfpondences, it follows, that
Diffenfions and Herefies·are inevitable, and that the
Pcrmiffion of thefe is alfo ~ccording to the Laws of
the Divine Providence; cfpecially, when the Church
itfelf had aiTumed for its Effentials fuch Things as
belong to the Updcrfl:anding only, and fa to Doc-
trine, and not to the \Viii, and fo to ~he Conduct
of Life ; and when the Tpings whi.ch have Relation
to Life are not made Effentials of the Church, then
Man with RefpeU: to his Underfl:anding is in mere
Darkr.efs, ~nd gropes about like a blind Man, whq
is ever fiumbling-, and falling into Ditches ; for the
'Will mufl fee in the Underftanding, and not the
Underft~nding in the Will, or, what amounts to
the fame, the Life and its Love mu11 lead the Un.
rlerflanding to think, fpeak, and aEt, and not vice
·-.:erfa; for if the Cafe were reverfed, the Under!'
franding might from an evil, yea, a diabolical LoYe,
catch at whatfoevcr impreifed the Senfes, and enjoin
~he Will to do it. Hence it may be feen, whence
piffenfions an-d l-~~reftes exifl:~ But yet ~tis provided,
· · that ·
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCJI:. j8l
lhat every one, in wh:afoever Herefy he may be
with Refpea to his Underflanding, may Jl:ill be re.
formed and faved, pYOvided he !huns Evils as Sins,
and doth not c01jirm heretical Falfes in himfdf; for
by !hunning Evils as Sins the \Vill is reformed, and
by the ·will the Underfbnding, which then firil:
emerges out of Darknefs into Light. There are
three Effentials of the Church, an Acknowledgment
of the Lord's Divinity, an Acknowledgment of the
Holinefs of the \Vord, and the Life which is called
Charity ; conformable to his Life, that is, his Char-
ity, every Manps Faith is ; from the ·word he hath
a Knowledge of what his Life ought to be, and from
the Lord he hath Reformation and Salvation. If
thefe three had been held as Effentials of the Church,
intelleB:ual Dilfenfions would not have divided it,
but would only have varied it, as the Light varieth
Colours in beautiful ObjeCts, and as various Jewels
confi:itute the beauty of a kingly Crown.
z6o. VII. That the merely naturallYlan coJ!}irmeth
hin!fc!fagail!fl the Divine Providmcc, bccaz!fe Juda!fm
fiill continues ; that is, becaufe the Jews, after the
Lapfe of fo many Ages, are not converted, although
they live among Chriflians, and do not according to
the PrediB:ions in the \Vord confefs the Lord, and
;1ckn?wledgc him as the Mefiiah, who, as they im-
~gine, is to lead them back into the Land of Canaan,
but conflantly perfifi: in denying him, and yet it go-
,eth well with them : But they who think thus, and
for that Reafon call in ~tdlion the Divine Provi-
dence, do not know that by the Jews in the \Vord
are meant all who are of the Church and acknowl-
edge the Lord, and that by the Land of Canaan,
into
382 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNiNG
into which it is faid they are to be i.ntroduced, is
meant the Lord's Church: But the Reafon why
they perfevere in denying the Lord, is, becaufy they
arc of fuch a Difpofition, that if they were to re.
ceive and acknowledge the Lord's Divinity, and the
holy Things of his Church, they would profane
them ; wherefore the Lord faith of them, " He hatb
blinded their Eyes, and hardened their Heart, that
they jhould notfee u:ith tbeir Eyes, nor undetjland v,.;ith
tbeir Heart, and be converted, and Ijhou!d beat them,"
John xii. 40. Matt. xiii. 14. Mar~ iv. I 2. Luke
vm. I o. Ifaiah vi. g, I o ; .it is faid, left they ihould
be converted, and I ihould heal them, becaufe if
they had been converted and healed, they would
have been guilty of Profanation ; and it is a Law
of the Divine Providence, as was fhewn above, n.
22I to 233, that no one is more interiorly let into
the Tmths of Faith and G oods of Charity by the
l.ord, than fo far as he can be kept in them to his
l.ife's End, and in Cafe it were not fo, he woul<t
profane Things holy. The Reafon why this Nation
is preferved, and fcatte1ed over a great Part of the
Earth, is for the Sake a{ the- \Vord in its original
I.anguage, which they hold more facred than Chrif..
tians do, and in every Particular of the Word is the
Divinity of the Lord, for it is Divine Truth mi.ited
to' Divine Good, which proceedeth from the Lord,
and thereby the Word is the ConjunCl:ion of the
I.ord with the Church, and the Prefence of Heaven,
as is fhewn in THE DocTRINE OF THE NEw jERU·
SAL E:\1 coNCE RNING THE SAcRED ScRIPTURE,
n. 62 to 69 ; and the Prefence of the Lord and of
Heaven taketh Place wherefoe\·er the \Nord is read
with
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE.
with Devotion : This is the End which the Divine
Providenct: hath in View, in preferving and difperf-
iag them over a great Part of the \Vorld. Wh\tt
th~ !·~~.ture of tbeir Lot is after Death, may be feen.
in THE CoNTINUATION coNCERNING THE LAsT
JuDGMENT AND THE Sl'IRITUAL '\VoRLD, n. 79
to Sz.
z6x. Thefe then arc the Circumfl:ances adduced
above, n. 238, by which the natural Man does, or
may confirm himfelf againfl: the Divine Providence ;
there follow fame others, mentioned above, n. ~39 1
which may alfo fervc the natural Man as Arguments
againfl: the Divine Providence, and may likewifc
occur to the 1\'Iinds of others, and fuggefl: fome
Doubts, \Yhich are :
262. I. 'That a Doubt may he inferred agaiJffl
tbc Divine Providence, by Reqflm that the whole
Chr!Jlian J.f'o'rfd wor}hippetb God under three Pt!t.fom~
which is, three Gods; and that hitherto they did not
know, that God is one in Pe1jon and in ~ffence, in
whom th~'r{? is a Trinit;;, and that tbat GQd is the
Lord. The Reafoner concerning the Divine
Providence may fay, Are not three Perfons three
Gods, when eacH Perfon by himfelf is God? \Vho
~;an think otherwife, yea, who doth think otherwife?
Athanafius himfelf could not think otherwife1
wherefore in the Creed which hath its Name from
him, he faith, " Although 'We are compelled by Chr!f
tian Verity to acknow!:dge each Petfon by hiJT!ftlfto be
God and Lord; yet are -:.c:cforbidden by the Chrifiian
Faith to fay or name three Gods or three Lords;'' by
\vhich \:Vords Nothing elfe can be underftood, than
t_hat we ought to acknowledge three Gods and
Lords,
384 ANCtLic \Vts:boM co:Nc.F.RNING
Lords, but that we ought not to fay there are·
three Gods and three Lords. \Vho can poffibly
have a Perception of one God, unlefs he be alfO'
one in Perfon? If it be ullegt:d, that fuch Percep-
tion may be had, provided you think, that the
three Pe:rfons have one Euence, \\ ho from thence'
does or can pctceive any Thing elfe, than that in
this Caie they are unanimous, and contenting, and
yet that they are three Gods ? And if a Nlan el.::
evates his Thoughts, he faith with himfelf, how
can the Divine ElTence; which is infinite, be divided,.
and how can it from Eternity beget another, and
frill prod.uce a tbi:::d, who proceedeth from both ?
It may poffibly be faid, that this is to be believed;
and ought not to be thought of; trut who doth
net think of that which he is told he ought to be.;
lieve, otherwife how can there be any Ad:nowl.:
edgment which is the Effence of Faith ? Did not
Socinianifm and Arianifm, which reign in the
Hearts of more People than you imagine, take their
Rife from thinking of God as of three Perfons ?
A Belief in one God, and that that one God is
the Lord, confl:itutes the Church, for in Him there
is a Divine Trinity ; that this is true, may be feetl
.in THE DocTRINE OF THE NI:W jERUSALEM
CoNC.ERNING THE Lol(;o, from Beginning to End.
But what is thought of the Lord :!t this Day? Is it
not thought that he is God and Man, God ftom
Jehovah his Farhet, by whom he w;1s conceived1
and Man from the Virgin Mary, of whom he was
born? \Vho thini~s, that God and Man in Him, or
his Divinity and his Humanity, are o::e Perfon, and
that they are one as the Soul and Body are one ?
Doth
THE lJIV'INE P.Ro\riDENcE.
noth any one know this ? Afk the DoB:ors of the
Church, and they will fay that'they did ri6t know
it, when nevcrthelefs it is the DoB:rine bf the
Church received thtoughout the whole Chriftian
World; which is as follows, " Our Lord Jefus
Chrtfl, the _
Son ofGod, is God and Man, dud allbough
he is Godand Man, be is not two, but one! Chr!fl; one ·
by the taking of the Jv[anhood into God~ [baazife God
took to Himfe!J the .Alanhood or !Jlimart Nt~ture] one
a/togetber, by Unity ofPerfon,for as tbe Soul and Body
h one Man;fo God and JI.!Jan is one Cbr!fl :" This is
taken from Athanaf1us's Cread: The Reafon why
they did not kJ?.oW it, is, becaufe ·when they read ir,
they did not think of the Lord as God, but only as
a Man. If the fame be ar"'ed whether they know
by whom he was conceived, whether by God the
Father, or by his own Divinity~ they \\'ill anfwer
that he was conceived by God the Father, for this
is according to Scripture : Are ilot the Father and
He then one; as the Soul and Body are one? 'Who
tan think that he was conceived by two Divinities,
and if by his own Divinity, that this was his Father?
If you aik them again, ·what is your Idea of the
Lord's Divinity, and \vhat of his Humanity? they
will fay that his Divinity is from the Effence of the
Father, and his Humanity from the Eilence of the
'I't!other, and that his Divinity is with the Father :
And if you then afk, where is his Humanity, they
will make no Anfwer; for they feparate in Idea his
Divinity from his Humanity, and make hh Divinity
equal to the Divinity of the'Father, and his Hum::m~
ity fimilar to that of another Man, and do not knQ\V
that in fo doing they alfo feparate Soul a11d Body ;
A A '-' nor
386 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONC.ERNIN-d
nor do they fee the Contradi.Etion, that in this Caft:
he would have been born a rational Man from the
Mother alone. In Confequence of the Idea im-
prefled concerning the Lord' s IIun~anlty, that it
was like the l-It;manity of another )\1an, it is now
come to pafs, that a ChriHian cannot withcu't Diffi-
culty be led to think of A DrvrNE H u MAN (Being,}
although it fnould be faid that the Lord's Soul or;
Life was by Conception, and is, Jehovah Himfelf~
ColleCt thefe Rcafons now, and confider whether"
there be any other God of the Univerfe but the
lord alone, in whom is the effential afl-creating
Divioe [Principle]' ~hich is called the Father, the
Divine Human [Pri"nciple] which is cal1ecf the Son~
and the proceeding Divine [Principle] whicf1 is call-
ed the Holy Spirit, and therefore that God is one in
Pcrfon and Eifence, and that that God· is tf1e Lord.
If you infifl and fay, that the Lord h!tnfelf named
three in Matthew, when he faid, "Go and"teach all
Natious, baptizing them in the Nai11c if the Father$
and of the Son~ and of the Holy Gbofl," xxviii. I 9 ;
I anfwer, it is evident from the preceding and fol-
lowing Verfes, that he faid tl1is, to the End it might
be known, that in Himfeff now glorified there \'vas
a Divine Trinity ; in- the v ·erfe immediatefy prece.
ding he faith, that allPo-:.cer ·was gi'ven Hil:z in Heav•
en and in Earth, and in the fu<:ceeding Verfe, that
He would be with them until the Conjianmaticn if !h~
Age, confequcntly he fpeaks of Himfelf alone, and
not of Three.. Now with Refpeet to the Divine
Providenc~ and the Reafon why it permitted Chrif~
tians to worf11ip one God under three Perfons, which
amounts to the f4lme as lhrec Gods, a-nd that hith..-
erto
THE DIVINE PROYIDI!.NC!. 387
erto they diJ not know, that God is one in Perfon
and Ellence, in whom there is a Trinity, and that
that God js the Lord ;· the Reafon doth not cxifl:
in the Lord, but in Man himfc1f; the Lord taught
it manifeiHy in his ·word, as may appear from all
the Paifages quoted jn THE DocTRINE oF !HE
NE\v JERU?ALEl\1 CONCERNING THE LoRD; and
moreover he taught it in the PoB:rine of all the
Churches, iri which it is infifl:ed, that his Divinity
~nd hjs Humanity are not two, but one Perfon,
united like Soul and Body: J3ut the Reafon why
they divided his Divinity and Humanity, and made
his Divinity equal to the Divinity .of Jeho,·ah the
Father, and his Humanity equa[ to the Humanity
of another Man, was, becaufe the Church after its
Efl:ablifhment Iapfed into Babylon, which transfer-
red to itfelf the Divine Power of the Lord; never-
thele[s that it might not be called Divine Power
but human, they made the Lord's Humanity fim-
ilar to the Humanity of another ·Man : Ahd after-
wards when the Church was reformed, and Faith
atone received as the fole Means of Salv<!-tion (which
i~ that God the Father would have l'<1ercy for the
Sake of his Son,) neither then could the Lord's
Humanity be viewed in any other Light; the Rea,.
fon why it could not, is, becaufe no one can ap-
proach the Lord, and acknowledge Him in his Heart
as the God of Heaven and Earth, but fuch ·as live
according to his Commandments ; in the fpiritua.l
'\Vorld, where every one is obliged to fpeak as he
thinks, no one can even n1me Jefus, unlefs h·e has li'v.
ed in the World as a Chrifl:ian; and this from his Di.
vine Providence, left his Name lhould be profaned.
263. But
...
,38~ ANG~LIC 'V~S.OOM CONCERNING
z63. But that what hath pow been faid m4y ap.
pear more clearly, l will ftdd what is adduced in
THE pocTRINE oF THE NEw ]ERUSALEM .CON.-
CERNING THE LoRn, towards the End, n. 6o, 6t,
which is ~s follows, "That God and Man in the
~' Lord are ~ccording to the Pochine not two, but
"one Perfon, and altogether one, even as the .Soul
fC and Dody are one, appears clearly from many
~' Things whjch the Lord faid himfelf, as, that
~' the Father and himfelf are one ; that all Things
~' of the Father are his, and all Things of his the
''Father's; that he is in the Father, and the Fa.
'' ther in him ; that all Things are given into his
" Hand ; that ~e has all Power ; that he is the
~' God of Heaven <:J.nd Earth ; that whofoever be-
H lieve~ in him has ~ternal Life ; aml moreover,
~' that he afcended into Heaven, both as to his
~'Divinity ancl Humanity, and that, with Refpe(t
~' to each, he fitteth on the right Hand of God,
" which means that he is Almighty ; b~{ides many
" Paffages which are copioufly quoted in the former
~' Part of this \:Vork, from the \Vord, concerning
'' his Divine Humanity, all of which tefiify that
~' Gon IS oNE AS ·wELL IN PERSON AS IN EssENCE;
~'THAT 11\j" HIM IS A TRINITY, AND THAT THAT
~' Gon IS THE LoRD, The Reafon why thefe
~' Things relative to the Lord are now for the firH:
" Time 111a,de publickly kno\vn is, be.caufe it is fore-
~' told in the Apocalypfe, Chap. xxi. and xxii. that
~'a New Chp.rch fhould be efiablifhed by the Lord,
~'when the former Church iliould come to an End,
f' which New Cht_;rch was to be founded upon this
f~ 4~l\.nqwl~dgment of the Lord as a firft and prin.
cipa~
I
I·
THE DIVINE PROVIDEl'lCEo 389
" cipal Truth. This Church is what is meant by
"the New Jerufalem there mentioned, into which
''none can enter, but fuch as acknowledge t~ _
'' Lord alone as the God of Heaven and Earth,
~'wherefore this Church is there called THE \VIFE
'' oF THE LAMB : And this I can aver, that the uni.
" verfal Heaven doth thus acknowledge the Lord ;
" and that whofoever doth not fo acknowledge him
" is not admitted therein ; for Heaven exifl:s as
" Heaven folely from the Lord. It .js this Ac.
" knowledgrnent, grounded in Love and Faith,
" which caufeth all the Inhabitants of Heaven to be
" in the Lord, and the Lord in them, according to
" what He Himfelf teaches in John, "In tbat Day
"ye jhall know that I am in 1ny Father, and ye in Me,
"and I in you," xiv. zo. And again, Abide in Me
"and I in you : I am the Vine, ye are the Branches,
" he that abideth in J.Vfe and I in ~im, the fame bring·
" cth forth mucb Fruit ; for without Me ye can d~
" Nothing: lfa Man abide not in Me, be is cqfl out,'•
"Chap. xv. 4, 5, 6. Chap. xvii. 22, 23. The
" Reafon why this Doarine concerning the Lord
~' was not before difcovered from the vVord, is, be-
" caufe, had it been before difcovered and feen, ftill
~'it would not have been received : For as yet the
" final Judgment was not accomplifhed, and previ-
" ous to that Judgment, the_ Power of Hell prevail-
" ed over the Power of Heaven, and 1\hn is in the
" Midfl: between Heaven and Hell ; wherefore had
" this Doctrine been underftood before, the Devil,
" that is, Hell, would have taken it out of his Heart,
'' and he would moreover have profaned it. This
" State of the Po.
wer of Hell was altogether dcfl:roy-
cc ed bJ the la~ Judgq1ent, which IS now accom-
" plifhed;
390 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONC!RNING
" plifhed ; fince which Tim~, it is in every one's
"Power, who defires it, to be enlightel}ed, and.
"gifted with genuine vVifdom."
264. II. r'hat a Doubt may be inftrrcd agah!fl the
DhJinc Providence, becaufe·beretofore it was not known,
that in every Particular of the Word there is aJPirit,.
ual Senft, and that its Holinifs cor!ftjls therein: For it
may be fuggcfi:ed as a Doubt againfi: the Divine
Providence, \Vhy is this r~vealed now for the firfl:
Ti:ne, and why by this or that Perfon, and not by
anv Primate of the Church ? But whether he be a
" .
Primate or the Servant of a Prip.1ate, is according to
the Lord's good Pleafure, for he knoweth both the
one and the other. But the Reafon why that Senfe
of the Word was not revealed before, is, I. Becaufe,
if it had been revealed before, the Church would
have profaned it, and thereby have profaned the
San&ity of the Word itfelf. II. That neither were
genuine Truths, in which the fpiritual Senfe of the
Word confifi:s, revealed, till after the lafi: Judgment
was performed, and a New Church, which is under~
fiood by the Holy Jerufalem, was about to be efi:ab-
lifhed by the Lord : But thefe Articles iliall be ex.
amincd feparately; FIRST : That tbeJpiritual &1!fo
qftbe Word v.Jas not revealed before, bcraz!fe ifit had
been revca!d before, the Church would have profaned
it, and tbereby haveprofaned tbe San{iity ofthe Word
iifdf: The Church, not long after its Efi:abliiliment,
was converted into Babylon, and afterwards into
Philifi:hea; and Babylon doth indeed acknowledge
the \Vord, but yet contemneth it, faying that the
Holy G hofi: infpires them in their fupreme Ded-.
fions, equally as much as it infpired the Prophets:
The
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 391
The Reafon why they acknowledge the \Vor,l, is,
for the Sake of the Vicnrfhip founded on the Lord's
tvords to Peter ; but yet they contemn it, becaufe
it doth not accord [with thdr Views ;] for that Rea-
fan alfo it is taken from the People, and hid in Mo•
nafleries; where there are but few who read it;
wherefore if the fpi1itual Senfe of the \Vord, in
\vhich the Lord, and at the fame Time all Angelic
"\Vifdom dwelleth, had been revealed, the Word
would have been profaned, not only as is now the
Cafe, in its Ultimates, which are what is contained in
the literal Scnfe, but aifo in its Intimates or inmofl:
Meaning. Philifi:ea, by which is meant Faith fepa•
tate from Charity, wouid alfo have prof~ned the
fpiritual Senfe of the \Vord; becaufe it places Salva-
tion in certain \Vords which :ire to be thought and
!poke, and not in any.Good that is to be dorie, as
was fhewn before; and fo maketh that afaving Prin.;
ciple which lS not faving, and moreover removeth
the Underllanding from Things which ought to be
' believed " And what have fuch Perfons to do with
the Light, in which the (pirituai Senfe of the \Von1
is? \Vould it riot be turned by them into Dark-
. nefs ? 'When the natural Senfe Is turned into Dark-
nefs, what would the fpiritual Senfe be ? Is there
My one of tbofc, who have confirmed themfelves in
Faith feparated from Charity, and in Julllfication b,y
it alone, that defi.res to know what the Good of'
Life is, or what Love to the Lord is, and towards
their Neighbour, or what Charity is, \~·hat the
Goods of Charity, what goctl \Vorks are, and what
it is to do, yea what Faith is in its Effence, or any
genuine Truth that confiitutes it? They write Vol..
unies,
j92 ANGILIC "\VISDOM CONCERNI1\'0
umcs, and confirm Nothing but what they call FaithJ
and all the Things above recited, they fay are con;o
tained in that Faith. Frotn which it is evident,
that if the fpiritual Senfe of the \Vord had been re.
vealcd before, the Cafe would have been according
to what the Lord faith in Matthew, "If thine Eye
be evil, thy whole Body fhall be full of Darknefs j
if therefore the L1ght that is in thee be Darknefs;
how great is that Darknefs," vi. 23: By Eye in the
fpiritual Senfe of the Word, is meant the Under"'
fianding. SECONDLY~ That neither were the genu•
ine Truths, of which the Jpiritual Se:!ft of the Word
cOJ!fyls, revealed by the Lord, till after the lqjl "Judg•
ment was accomplijbed, and the New Church, whicb ii
undeljlood by t.&e Holy 'Jerifalem, was about to be
tjlabfi}hed by the Lord: It is foretold by the Lord in
the Apocalypfe, that after the lafi J~.:dgment is ac..
compllihed, genuine Truths are to be revealed, ~
New Church efiablifhed, and the fpiritual Senfe o£
the Word diftlofed: That the final Judgment is now
accomplifhed, is !hewn in a fmall \Vark concerning
the LAST JuDGMENT, and likewife in THE CoN-
TINUATION of the fame ; and that that is what is
meant by the Heaven and Earth which are to pafs
away, in the Apocalypfe, Chap. xxi. i. That gen•
uine Truths are then to be revealed, is foretold by'
thefe Words in the Apocalypfe, "He that fat upoli
the Thtone faid, behold, I make all Things new,'•
Verfe 5; alfo Chap. xix. 17, 18. Chap. xxi. 18 ta
~ 1. Chap. xxii. 1, z, That the fpiritual Senfe
of the ""rord is then to be revealed, is foretold in
Chap. xix. I 1 to I 6; this is denoted by the white
Horfe, ~pq_n which he' who fat ~as called the \Vord
of
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 393
of God, and was the Lord of Lords, and King ~f
Kings, on which SubjeCt fee the little Work con-
cerning THE """HITE HoRSE. That by the Holy
Jerufalem is meant the New Cb'urch, which ,is then
to be dl:ablilhed by the Lord, may be feen in T:m~
DocTRINE oF THE NEw jERUSAI.l~-M coNCERN-
ING THE LoRD, n. 62 to 65, where it is demon-
fi:rated. Hence then it is ev,ident, that the fpiritual
Senfe of the Word was to be revealed for a New
Church, which will acknowledge and worfhip the
Lord only, and hold his \Vord facrecl, and love Di-
vine Truths, and rejeCt Faith feparated from Chari-
ty. But more may be feen relative to this Senfe ()f
the Word, in THE DocTRINE oF THE N.Ew jERU-
SALEM coNCERNiNG THE SAcRED ScR-
IPTURE,
n. 5 to 26; as what the fpiritual Senfe of the \Vord
'is, n. 5 to 26. That there ~s a fpiritual Senfe in all
and every Particular of the Word, n. 9 to 17.
That it is by Virtue of the fpiritual Senfe, that the
Word is of Divine Infpiration, and holy in every
fingle Expreffion, n. 18, 1 9· That the fpirit-
ual Senfe of the Word hath been heretofore
unknown, and why it was not revealed before,
n. 20 to 25. That from henceforth the fpir-
itual Senfe of the 'Word will be opened to none
but thofe, who are principled in genuine ll'ruths
from the Lord, n. z6. From thefe Confiderations
then it may appear, that it is of the Divine Provi-
dence of the Lord, that the fpiritual Senfe hath been
concealed from the \Vorld until th~ prefent Age,
and in the mean Time was preferved in Heaven
among the Angels, who out of it derive their \Vif.-
dom. Thi~ Senfe was known, and alfo cultivated,
B n b among
394 ANGELlC \VrsDOM CO:NCERNIN~
among the Ancients, who lived before Mofes; but
inafmuch as their Pofl:erity converted the Corref-
pondences, of which folely their \Vord and confe-
quently their Religion confifled, into various Idol-
atries, and the Egyptians into Magic, by the Divine
Providence of the Lord it was !hut up, firft among
the Children of lfrael, and afterwards among the
Chriflians,.Jor the Reafons mentioned above, and is
now firfl: opeJ?ed for the Lord's New Church.
265· III. '!'bara Doubt may be il?ferred ngah!flthe
Divine Pro'l:idence, bccaufe heretofore it 'Was not knGwn,
that tbe 'Very F:lfence of tbe Cbr!flimz Religion coriftfh
injhwming Evilt as Sins. That this is the very Efd
ience of the Chriflian Religion, is fhewn in Tm:
DocTRINE oF LIFE FOR THE N Ew jERUSALEM ,.
from Beginning to End: And whereas Faith fepa-
rated from Charity is the only Obflacle to its being
received, that alfo is treated 0f. lt is faid that here-
tofore it was not known that the very Effence of the
Chriflian Religion confif!:s in fhunning Evils as Sins,
becaufe almofi every Body is ignorant of this, and
yet every one knoweth it, as may be feen above, n.
zs8; the Reafon why almofi: every Body is igno·
rant ofit, is, becaufe Solifidianifm hath crafed it, for
this teacheth, that Faith alone faveth, and not any
good Work or Good of Charity; moreover that
they are no longer under the Yoke of the Law, but
at Liberty ; they who frequently hear fnch Doc-
trines, no longer think of any Evil of Life, nor.of
any Good of f.ife; for every Man by Nature is in-
clined to embrace that Idea, and when it is once
embraced, he no longer thinks of the State of his
Life: This is the Reafon why the above is not.
known.
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 395
known. That it is not known, was difcovered to
me in the fpiritual \Yorld : I queflioned al:love a
thoufand who ~·ere ne\vly arrived from this \\Torld,
whether they knew that the Effence of Religion
confifl:ed in .lhunning EYils as Sins ; and they faid
that they did not know it, and that it was a new
Thing which had never been heard of before, but
that they had heard that they could not do any
Good from themfelves, and that they were not un-
der the Yoke of the Law : When I afk.ed, if they
did not know, that jt was a Man's Duty to exam-
ine himfelf, to fee his Sins, repent of them, and
lead a new Life, and that otherwife Sins are not for-
given, and if Sins are not forgiven there is no Salva-
tion, and that this was read aloud to them as often
as they received the holy Supper; they anfwered,
that they did not attend to thefe Things, but only to
this, that-by Means of the Lord's Supper their Sins
'4l.re forgiven, and that Faith, without their Knowl-
edge, operates the refi:. Again 1 afked, why did
you teach your Children the Decalogue, was it not
that they might know what Evils are Sins, which
are to be fhunned? Was it that they might only
know and believe, and not acr accordingly? Where-
fore then do you fay that this is a new Thing? To
this they could make no other Anfwer, but that they
knew it, and yet did not know it, and that they nev-
er thought of the feventh Commandment when
they committed Adultery, nor of the eighth when
they committed Theft or acted frauoently, and fo
on ; much lefs that fuch Things arc contrary to the
Divine Law, confequently Offences againft God.
'Vhen I mentioned feveral Things from the Doc-
trines ·
396 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
trines 'of the Churches, and from the Word, in Con.
firmation of my Affertion, that to fhun Evils as Sins,_
:tnd hold them in Averfion, is the very Eifence of
the Chrifl:ian Religion, and that every ope is gifted
with Faith in Proportion as he !hunreth and holdeth
them in A v~rfion, they were filent ; but they were
confi_rmed in the Truth ofit, when they faw that all
were examined with Refpeer to their Lives, ·and
judged according to their AD:ions, and no one ac':'
cording to his Faith unconneaedly with ~is Life,
becaufe the Faith of every one i~ conformable tq
his Life. The Reafon why the Chrillian World
for the mofl: Part did not know this, exifl:s in that
Law of the Divine Providence, whereby every one
is left to aft from qberty according to .Reafon_
which fee above, nl 7I to 99, and n. I 90 to 128 ;
Alfo in the ~aw whereby it is appointed, tli~t 'no
one is taught immedi$!-tely from Heaven, but medi~
~tely through the \Vord, DoCtrine, and Pr~achings
put of it, concerning which, fee ;1bove, n. I 54 to
~ 74 : And likewife in all the Laws of Permiffion,
which alfo are Laws of the Divine Providence.
More may be feen ~bove refpeaing thefe, n. 258.
274· lV. 1'hat a Doubt may b~ inferr~d againfl the
J)i;.;ine Pro'vidence, becm!ft it W!JS not knawu hereto-
fore, that Man li'ueth after Death; and this was not
difcovered till 1ZO'IJ!· The Reafcn why this was not
known, is, becaufe in thofe who 9o not ihun Evils
as Sins, there lieth inwardly concealed a Belief,
that Man doth not live after Death, f!.nd there-
fore they think it of no Importance, whether it be
faid that Man liveth after Death, or that he will
:-ife again at the Dar of Judgm~nt; anif ~f he hap-:
pens
TilE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 397
pens to have any Belief in a Refurreetion, he faith
to himfelf, I ihall not fare worfe than others, for
if I go to Hell, I ihall have many to accompany
me, and if to .ijeaven, it will be the fame. But
yet all who have any Religion, have in them an
inherent Knowledge, · that Men li\·e after Death;
the Idea that they live as Souls, and not as Men,
takes Place only with thofe who are infatuated by
their own Self-derived Intelligence, and with no
others. That <;very one who hath any Religion in
him, hath an inherent Knowledge that Man liveth
after Death, may appear from the ·following Con-
fiderations. I. \:Vho thinks otherwife when he is
dying ? 2. "What Panegyrifl:, in his Lamentation
pver the Dr;:ad, doth not fend them to Heaven,
place them among the Angels, converfing with
them, and partaking their Joys ? Not to mention
the Apotheofis of fome. 3· Who among the Vul-
gar doth not believe, that when he dies, if he had
lived well, he fhould go to a heavenly Paradife, be
cloathed in a white Garment, and enjoy Life ever-
lafting ? 4· Where is ~he Preacher who doth not
fay thefe Things, or the like, to thofe who are on
their Death-Bed? And when he fays them, he be-
lieves them himfelf, provided he doth not think of
the lafr Judgment. 5· Who is there that doth not
pe!ieve that his Children are in Heaven, and that
he fhall fee his Wife, whom he had loved, after
Death ? VJ'ho ever fuppofes they are Spectre:;,
~uch lefs that they are Souls or Minds ho verin~
~botJt in the Univerfe? 6. \Vho contradicrs, when
any Thing is faid of the Lot and State of thofe
who have paifed from Time to Eternit·y ? I ha,·e
told
398 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
told many of the State and Lot of fuch and fuch
Perfons, and I never yet heard any one fay, that_
their Lot was not yet decided, but that it would
be fo at the lafl: Judgment. 7· Who, when he
feerh .Angels painted or carved, doth not acknowl.
edge tl1at they are fuch ? \Vho ever imagines at
fuch Times that they are Spirits without a Body,
Airs, or Clouds, as fame of the Learned do ?
8. The Papifls believe their Saints ·to be Men in
Heaven, and others elfe\vhere ; the Mahometans
think the fame of their Dead ; fo do the Africans
more efpecially, and in like Manner many other
Nations; what then ought not reformed Chrifi:ians
to do, who know it from the \Vord ? 9· To this
Knowledge inherent in every one, it is alfo owing,
that fame afpire after immortal Fame, for this
Knowledge is converted into the Love ·of fuch
Fame with fame, and makes them Heroes and val.
iant in 'War. 10. Inquiry was made in the fpirit.
ual \Vorld, whether this Knowledge is inherent in
all, and it was found, that it is fo in the fpiritual
Idea of all, which is of the internal Thought, but
not fo in their natural Idea, which is of the external
Thought. From thefe Confiderations it may ap.
pear, that no one ought to infer any Doubt againfi:
the Divine Providence> becaufe he thinks it is now
firfi: difcovered that Man liveth after Death. It is
only the fenfual [Mind] of Man, which defireth
to fee and touch what it is to believe ; he whofe
Thoughts are not elevated above this, is involved
in Darknefs \vith RefpeCl: to the State of his Life.
That
I
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 399
Tlzat Evils ate ·permitted for a certain
End, which End is Salvation.
. 275. IFMan \vete born in the Love; to "Yhich he
. is created, he would not be in any Evil,.
yea, neither would he know what Evil is, for he
who hath not been, and thereby is not in Evil, can~
not know what Evil is ; if it fhould be faid to him
that this or that is Evil, he would not believe it pof..
fible ; this State is the State of Innocence, in which
Adam and his 'Wife Eve were ; their Nakednefs,
of which they were not afhamed, fignified fuch a
State. The Knowledge of Evil after the Fall i~
meant by eating of the Tree of Knowledge of Good
and Evil. The Love for which Man is created, is
the Love of his Neighbour, that he may wifh him as
well as he wifheth himfelf, and more fo, and that he.
may be in the Delight of that Love, when he doeth
Good to him, juft as a Parent is in doing Good to
his Children. This Love is truly human, for in it
there is Something fpiritual, whereby it is difiin.
guifhed from natural Love, which takes Place in
Brute Animals : If !\'Ian were born into this Love,
he would not be born in the Darknefs of Ignorance,
as is no\v the Cafe with every Man, but to a certain
Light of Knowledge [Scientice] and thence of Intel.
ligence, into which he would alfo enter in a !hart
Time ; and indeed he would at firil creep like a.
~adruped, but with an innate Endeavour to raif~
himfelf upon his Feet ; for although he would
creep, yet he would not look down to the Ground,
but
400 ANGELIC ·\V.rs.DOM CONCERNING
but upwards to Heaven, and \vould lift himfelf, as
it would be in his Power to do, upright.
276. But when th~ .Lov.e of Man's N~ighbour'
was converted into the Love t>f Self, then human
Love was converted into animal Love, and Man
from being Man, became a Beail:, with this-Differ-
ence; that he could think that which he felt i.n the
Body; and rationally diil:inguifh the one from the
other, and could be inihud:ed, and made a civil and·
moral Man, and at length fpiritual ; for, as was' ob-
' fen·ed; Man hath a fpiritual Principle, 'whereby he
is diflinguifhed from Brute Animals ; for by it he
can know what civil Evil and Good is, likewife.
what moral Evil and Good is, and alfo, if he will,
what fpiritual Evil and Good is. When neighbour-
1y Love was converted into Self-LoYe, Man could
no longer be born into the Light of Science and
Intelligence, but into the Darknefs of Ignorance,
becaufe he was born totally in the Ultimate of Life;
which is called the corporeal jcJyual Principle ; but
from it could be introduced by lnfhucrion into the
Interiors of the natural Mine, Something fpiritual
always attending. The Rea:fon why he is born in
the Ultimate of Life, which is called the corporeal
fenfual Principle, and confequently in the Darknefs
of Ignorance, will be feen in what follows. That
the Love of our Neighbour and the Love of Self
are oppofite Loves, any one may fee ; for neigh·
hourly Love wi!heth well to all from itfelf ; but
Self-LO\·e wifheth well to itfelf alone from all ;
neighbourly Love defireth to fe.rve all, but Self·
Love defireth to be ferved by all ; neighbourly
Love confiden;'':111 as h.is Brothers and Friends, but
Self-Love
Ttu: DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 401
Self-Love confiders all as his Servants, and if they
do not ferve hie1, as his Enemies ; in a "\\rord, he
confiders himfelf alone, and others fcarcely as Men:t
whom in his Heart he values lefs th:m his Horfes
and Dogs; and inafmuch as he thinks them fo vile,
he makes no Account of injuring them, whence pro-
ceed Hatred and Revenge, Adultery and Fornica-
tion, Thefts and :Frauds, Lies and Bbfphemies,
Rage, Cruelty, and the like. Thefe are the Evils
in which Man is by Birth. That thefe arc Rennit-
ted for a certain End, which End is Salvation, fl1all
be demonll:rated in the follo·wing Order. I. That
every Man is in Evil, and that he is to be withdrawn
from Evil that he may be reformed. II. That Evils
cannot be removed except they appear. III. That
in Proportion as Evils are removed, in the fame Pro-
portion they are remitted. IV. That thus the Per-
million of Evil is to the End that there may be Sal-
vation.
zn. I. That every Man is in E?.,il, and that be is
to be withdrawn from E·vil that he may be reformed.
That every Mz.n hath hercditz.ry Evil, and that from
it Man is in the Concupifcence of mrtny F.vils, is
well kno'sn in the Ch11rch ; ann thence it i::; that
:i\Ian from himfelf cannot do Good, for E~·il doth
not do Go,Jd, except it be fuch Good as hath Evil
lurking \vithin it; the Evil '.':hich lurks within it~
confifi:s in his doing Gootl for the Sake of Seif, and
thus doing what is good only in Appearance. Tk1t
this Evil is ~ereditary from Patents, is well known;
it is faid to be fro1n 1
-\dam and Eve, but this is a
l\:!i!l:ake ; for every one ~s born into it from his Pa-
rent, and that Parent is born into it from hi3, :lnd
C e c lo
402 ANGELIC '\VISDOM CONCER~ING
fo every one from his own Parent refpeB:ively, and
thus it is fucccilively transferred from one to anoth·
er, whereby it increafes and augments itfel.f abun.
dantly, and is tranfmitted to Pofl:erity ; thence it is
that in Man there is no Health, or Nothing found)
but that he is one entire Mafs of Evil: Who is there
that feels, that to love himfelf more than others is.
Evil, and therefore who knows that there is any
Evil in it, when neverthelcf~ it is the Head of all
Evils ? That it is inherited from Fathers, Grandfa-
thers, and Great Grandfathers, is evident from
many Circumfl:ances which are known in the World,:
as from the Similarity of Faces in Houfes, Families,
yea in whole Nations, whereby they are diflinguifh...
able, and Faces are the Types of Minds, and the
State of Minds is conformable to their AffeCtions
which are of Love; fometimes alfo the Face of the
Grandfather returns in the Granachild or Great-
Grandchild: I can tell from only feeing the Face
' of any Perfon; whether lfe· is a Jew or not; and
alfo offome others from what Stoek they are deriv..
ed ; and I doubt not but there are others who can
do the fame. If the AffeCtions, whieh are of Love,.
are thus derived and tranfmitted from Parents, it
follows, that it is the fame with Evils, becaufe thefe
appertain to the AffeCtions. But the Caufe of this
Refemblance fhall now be explained; the Soul of
every one is from his Father, and is 0nly clothed
with a Body frotn his Mother ; that the Soul is de-
rived from the Father, follows as a Confequence not
only from what hath been faid above, but is alff>·
evident from other Circumfl:ances, as that the Chilu
of a Negro o~ Moor, by a white Woman or Euro1
pean~
THE DIVINE PROVIDENC.E. 403
pean, is born black, and vice vcifa ; and efpecially
by Reafon that the Soul is in the Seed, for from
it Impregnation is effeCted, and it is that which
is cloathed with a Dody from the Mother; for
the Seed is the primitive Form G.f the Love in
which the Father is, it is the Form of his ruling
Love, with its proximate Derivations, which are the
inmofl: Affecrions of that Love. Thefe in every one
are cloathed in the Decencies [ Homftis] of moral
Life, and the Goods which are partly of civil and
partly of fpiritual Life ; thefe confl:itute the Exter-
nal of Life even with the \:Vicked ; Every Infant is
born into this External of Life ; hence it is that it is
amiable, but as he grows up and advances to mature
Age, he paifeth from that External to Interiors, a~d
at length to the ruling Love of his Father, which
jf it was evil, and be ndt tempered and bent by
Means of Education, his Love becometh like his
Father's. Still however Evil is not extirpated, but
only removed, as will be fhewn in what follows.
Hence it is evident, that every Man is in Evil.
277. That Man is to be withdrawn from Evil,
in Order that he may be reformed, is evident with~
out Explanation; for he who is in Evil in the
'Vorld, the fame is in Evil after he goes out of the
\Vorld; wherefore if Evil be not removed in the
World, it cannot be removed afterwards; where the
Tree falls, there it lieth ; fa alfo it is with the Life
of Man' ; as it was at his Death, fuch it remaineth ;
every one alfo is judged according to his ACl:ions,
not that they are enumerated, but becaufe he re-
turns to them, and does the like again ; for Death
;s a Continuation of Life, with this Difference, th~t
then
•
404 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
then 1\lan cannot be reformed. All Reformation
is eff~Cted in a plenary Manner~ th;tt is, in Primaries
and at the fame Time in Ultimates, and Ultimates
are reformed in this \Vorld conformably to Prima-
ries, and cannot be fo afterwards, becaufe the Ul-
timates of Life, which Man carrieth with him after
Death, are quiefcent, and confpire, that is, aa ai
one, with his Interiors. ·
278. II. That E;vil.r cannot be removed except they
appear. It is not meant that Man is to do Evils
that they may appear, b)lt that he is to examine him-
felf, not only his Acrions but alio his Thoughts,
and what he would do, if he were not afraid of the
I~aws and Infamy.; efpecially what Evils he con-
fiders in his Spirit as allowable, and does not loo'k
upon as Sins, for thefe he fl:ill comrnitteth. To the
End that Man may explore himfelf, Underfl:anding
js given him, and this feparate from the \Viii, in
Order th:1t he may know, underfland, and ac-
knowledge what is Good and is Evil, and may alfo
fee the Nature of his Will, or what he lm•eth and
what he coveteth; that Man may fee this, his Un,.
derftanding is gifted with fuperior and inferior
Thought, or interior and exterior, that from his
fuperior or interior Thought he may fee what his
·will is doing in his inferior and exterior Thought )
this he feeth as a Man feeth his Face in a Glafs,
~nd when he feeth this, and knoweth what Sin is,
he may, if he implores the Help of the Lord, not
will it, but 1hun it, and afterwards aa againfl: it,
if not freely, fl:ill he may force himfelf to it by Com-
bat, and at length hold it in Averfion and abomi~
n:1te it; and then l~e firij: perceivcth and alfo feel-
eth1
I
THE DIViNE PRoVIDENcE: 405
et'h, that Evil is Evil, and Good is Good, and not
l:lefore. This then is examining or exploring him-
felf, feeing his Sins, and acknowledging them, con-
felling them, and afterwards defill:.ing from them.
But forafmuch as there are few who know, that
the very EiTence of the Chrifiian Religion confifls
in this, becaufc they only who do fo have Charity
and Faith, :and are led of the Lord, and do Good
from Him, Something fhall be faid of thofe who do
pot do fo, and yet think they have Religion in
them ; thefe are fuch as follow. I. ·who confefs
themfelves guilty of all Sins, and do not iearch
out any one Sin in themfelves. z. Vlho from a
Principle of Religion omit fuch Inquiry or Search.
3· Who by Reafon of worldly Things do not
think of Sins, and confequently do not know them.
4· \Vho favour them, and therefore cannot know
~hem. 5· That in all fuch as tbefe Sins do not ap-
pear, and that therefore they cannot be removed.
15. Lafl:ly, fhall be laid open the Caufe, hitherto
unknown, why Evils cannot be removed, without
the Search, Appearance, Acknowledgment, Con-
feilion thereof, and Refifl:ance thereto.
z78. But thefe Points fhall be viewed feparately,
becaufe they are Primaries or Fundamentals of the
Chrifl:ian Religion on the Part of Man. FrRsT:
Of thofe who conjefi then!felves guilty of all Sins, and
do not fearch out any Sin in then!felvcs, faying, I am
a Sinner, I was born in Sin, there is no Health in
111e from Head to Foot, I am Nothing but Evil,
good God, have Mercy upon me, forgive me, pu-
rify me, fave me, caufe me to walk in Purity of
J,ife, and in the Way of Uprightnefs, and the like;
and
406 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
and yet he doth not examine hirnfelf, and confe..
quently doth not know any Evil, and no one can
ilmn that which he cloth not know, much lefs fight
againft it ; and after his Confeffion he alfo thinketh
himfelf clean and \vafhed, when neverthelefs he
is unclean and unwafhed from Head to Foot; for
the Confeffion of all is the quieting or laying afleep
of all, and at length rhe blinding of all ; it is like
Something general without any Particular, which
is not any Thing. SECONDLY : Of thofe who frrmt
the Princ~b/es of their Religion omit Juch Inquiry l
they are fuch efpecially as feparate Charity from
Faith ; for they fay to themfelves, why fhould I
inquire whether it be Evil or Good? Why wheth-
er it be Evil, fince Evil doth not condemn me ?
Ar!d why V>hether ic be Good, fince Good doth
not fave me? It is Faith alone, thought and pro-
nounced with Confidence and Affurance, which
juflifieth and purifieth from all Sin, and when I am
once juftified, I am pure in the Sight of God; I am
inJeed in Evil, but this, as foon as it is produced,
God wipeth away, and fo it doth not appear any
more; not to mention other ,Notions of the fame
Kind. But \vho doth not fee, if he opens his Eyes,
that fuch are empty \:Vords, which have no Sub-
Har.cc in th(;ln, becaufe they have no Good in
them? \Vho may not think and fpeak thus, even
with Confidence and .A:ffurance, when at the fame
Time he thinketh of Hell and eternal Damnation ?
Doth fuch a one deilrc to know any Thing elfe,
whether it be true or whether it be good? OfTruth
he faith, what is Truth but that which confirmeth
fuch a Faith ? Of Good h~ faith, what is Good
but
\
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 407
but that which is in me from this Faith? But in
Order that it may be in me, I will not do it as from
myfelf, becaufe that is meritorious:> and meritorious
Good is not real Good ; thus he omitteth all Things
until he doth not know what Evil is; what can he
then fearch out or fee in himfelf? Is not his State in
this Cafe fuch, that the Fire of the Concupifcel}ces· ·
of Evil being inclofed confumeth his Interiors, and
devafl:ates them even to the Gate, which he keepeth
fhut left the Fire fhould appear?· Neverthelefs it is
opened after Death, and then appeareth in the Sight
of every one. THIRDLY:· Of thofe who by Rcafon
ifworldly 'Things do not think ofSins, and w!fequent-'
ly do not know tbem ; thefe are fuch as love the
"\Vorld above all Things, and do not admit any
Truth which may withdraw them from the Falfes of
their Religion, faying to themfelves, what have I to'
do with this ? I do not love to think ofit; thus they
rejeCt: Truth as foon as they hear it, and if they hear
it they fuffocate it. 'the Cafe is nearly the fame
with them when they hear Preachings, of which
they retain only fome of the \Verds, and not any
of the Subfl:ance.- Forafmuch as Truths are treat-
ed in this Manner by them, therefore they do not
know what Good is, for Truth and Good aCt as
one, and by Good which i:; not grounded ~n Truth,
no Difcovery is made of Evil, except that it alfo
may be called Good, which is effeCted by reafoning
from Falfes. Thefe are they who are meant by
the Seed which fell among Thorns, of whom the
Lord faith, " Other Seed fell among Thorns ; and
the Thorns fprung up and choked them." Thefe
are they too who" hear the \Vord, and the Care of"
this
408 ANGILIC \Vrs·noM CONCERNING
this World and the Deceitfulnefs of Riches choke
the Word, and it becometh unfuitful," Matt. xiii.
7, 22. Mark iv. 7, 14. Luke viii. 7, 14. FoURTH•
.LY : Of thoft who favouY Sins, and therefore cannot
/:now them: Thefe are they who acknowledge God,
and worfhip him accm·ding to the~ uiual Forms~
but confirm themfelves in the Idea, that any EYil,
which is a Sin, is not a Sin, for they difguife it by
Fallacies and Appearances, and fo hide its Enor~
n1ity; which when they have done, they favour it,
and make it friendly and familiar to them. It is
faid that they do thi•s, who acknowledge a God1
l>ecaufe others do not confider any Evi-l as a Sin,
for every Sin is an OfFence againfl: God. But this
:fhall be illuftrated by Examples: He doth not con,;
:fider Evil as Sin, who is covetous of Money, and
maketh any Species of Fraud allowable, by Rea..
fans whieh he fabricates : It is the fame with him
who confirmeth himfelf in the Lawfulnefs of Re...
'\Tenge againfl: Enemies, and of committing Depre~
dations upon thofe who are not Enemies in ·war.
FIFTHLY: That Sins with fuch do not a.vpear, and
therefore cannot be removed; all Evil which doth
Jlot appear, kindleth itfclf, being like Fire among
Wood under the Afhes ; and it is like corrupted
Matter in a \Vound which is not laid open; fqr
all Evil which is obfl:rucred increafeth, and doth
not ceafe until the whote is confummated ; where-
fore left any Evil fhonld be obfirucred, it is per.
mitted that every one fuould think either in Favour
of God or againfl: God, and in Favour of the holy
Things of the Church, or againft them, and fhould
not be punifhed for the fame in this World. Con-
cernmg
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 409
cerning this Evil the Lord faith in Ifaiah, " 'From
the Sole of the Foot even unto the Head, there is
no Soundnefs in it ; but Vlounds and Bruifes
and putrifying Sores : They have not beeQJ
clofed, neither bound up, nor mollified with Oil.
\Vafh ye, make you clean, put away the Evil of
your Doings from before mine Eyes; ceafe to do
Evil ; learn to do Good; then although your Sins
be as Scarlet, they £hall be as white as Snow, though
they be red like Crimfon, they {hall be as \Vool.
But if ye refufe and rebel, ye £hall be devoured
with the Sword," i. 6, z6, 18, 20 ; to be devoured
with the Sword fignifies to perith by the Falfe of
Evil. SIXTHLY : The Recifon, hitherto concealed,
why Evils cannot be removed •without being explored,
appearing, being ackno'l.o!edged, confejfed, and re.fified.
In the preceding Pages it is mentioned, that the
univerfal Heaven is arranged into Societies accord-
ing to the Affections of Good oppofite to the Con-
cupifcences of Evil; Every Man, with RefpeCl: to
his Spirit, is in fome Society, in a celeflial Society
if he is in the Affection of Good, and in an infernal
Society if he is in the Concupifcence of Evil; 1\Jan
doth not know this while he lives in this ·world,
but yet with Refpect to his Spirit he is in fome So~
ciety, without which he could not live, and by
which he is governed of the Lord : If he is in an
infernal Society, he cannot be brought out of it by
the Lord, but according to the Laws of his Divine
Providence, among which this alfo is one, that Man
mufl: fee that he is there, and defire to depart, and
mufl: himfelf endeavour to do it from himfelf; this
Man can do when he is in the \Vorld, but not afr~r
J) D d l)eath,
410 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERN'ING
'
Death, for then lie abideth to all Eternity in the Sa4
ciety, into which he introduced himfelf, when ha
was in the World : This is the Reafon, why Man
ought to· examine himfelf, to fee and acknowledgn
his Sins, and to repent of them, and then to perfe~
vere to his Life's End. That this is the Cafe, I
could fully and fatisfaCl:orily confirm by abundaqt
Experience ; but to produce Proofs from Experi-
ence doth not belong to this Place.
279· III. 'I'hat in Prvportion as Evils 'are re-
moved, in thefame Propo~·tion tbey are remitted. The
Error of this Age is, ~hat Evils are thought to be
- feparated from· Man, yea to be cafl: out, when they
are remitted; ai'ld that the·State of a Man's Life
can be changed in a Moment,. even ~o its Oppofite-,
and that thus· a Man from being wicked can be
made good,. confequemly brought out of Hell.,
and infl:antly tranflated to Heaven, and- this by the
immediate M·ercy o-f the Lord : But they who are
in this Belief and Opi-nion,. do not in the leafl: know
\Yhat Evil and Good are, neither do they know any
Thing of the State of Man's Life ; and they ar-a:
altogether ignorant, that the Affdtions, which are
of the 'Will, are mere Changes and Variations of
the State of the purely organic Subfl:anc!!s of the
Mind, and that the Thoughts, whiah ars of the
l:Jnderftanding, are mere Changes and Var.iations
of their Form ; and that the Memory is t-he perma-
nent State of thefe Changes. From a Knowledge
of this, it may clearly be feen, that no Evil can be
removed except fucceffively ; ami that the Remif...
fion of Evil is not the Removal thereof. But thefe
rl'hings are here only"aiferted in·a fummary ·way;.
unlefs
~mlefs however they arc demonfl:rated, they may
;ndcecl be acknowledged, but not comprehended ;
;md that which is not comprehended, is like a
\Vheel \vhich is turned about by the Hand; where.
fore the above-mentioned Propofitions fhall be dem~
pnfl:;rat.ed feparately in the fame Order in which
they are adduced. FIRST: That it is an Error cf
the ptefent Age, that Evils arf thought to be Jeparated,
yea cafl out, when they ar.e remitted. That no Evil~
into whicl]. a Man is born, and which he aCtually
imbibes, is fep;;tq.ted from him1 but that it is only
removed, in fuch a Manner that it doth pot appear,
hath been given me to know from Heaven; befor~
that, I was in the Belief which moft People entertain
in this vVorld, that Evils, when they are remitted,
~re cafl: out, and that they are wafhed off and wiped
away, like Dirt from the Face by Water: :But this
is not the Cafe with Evils or Sins; they all remain,
and when they ar.e remitted after Repentance, they
are remor~d from the Middle to the Sides, and
then that which is in the Middle, jnafmuch as i.t i,s
direCtly 4nder th~ Infpetl:ion, appears as in th~
Light of Day, and that which i$ at the Sides, in
tpe Shade, anq Sometimes as it were in the Dark.
pefs of N~g~t: And whereas Evils are not feparated,
,, but only removed, that is~ :put away to the Sides,
cmd M<ln n'\ay b~ tran,sferred fro.m th.e Middle t<;:t
the Circumference, it may al(o come to pafs, that
he may return to his Evils, which he thought re.
jeCted: For Man is -of fuch a Nature, that he can
pafs from one AfFeCtion to another, and fometimes
to an oppofite one, and fo from one Middle, qr
~e.11-tr~, [ a:b uno Mcdio] to another, the AffeCtion
Qf
'
412 ANGELIC \V!SDO~l CONCERNING
of Man confiituting the Middle or Centre while he
i~ in it, for he is then in the Delight and in the Light
thereof. There are fome Men, who after Death
are taken up by the Lord into Heaven, becaufe they
had led a good Life, but fl:iil carried with them a
Belief, that they were cleanfed and pure from Sins,
and therefore not in a State of Guilt ; thefe are at
firfl: cloathed in white Garments according to fuch
Perfuafion, for white Garments fignify a State of
Purification from Evils ; but afterwards they be..
gin to think, as they did in the \Vorld, that they
;1re wafhed clean as ir were from all Evil, and
therefore come to boafl: that they are no long-
er Sinners like others, which Perfuafion is diffi-
cult to be feparated from a certain Exultation of
Mind, and fome Degree of Contempt for others
when compared with themfelves ; therefore that
this imaginary Belief may be removed, they are
then remanded from Heaven, and let into their
Evils which they had contraCted in the World,
and at the fame Time it is fhewn them, that they
are in hereditary Evils, which they knew Nothing
of before : And when they have thus been forced
to acknO\vledge, that their Evils are not feparated
from them, but only removed, and fo that of them-
felves they are impure, yea Nothing but Evil, and
that it is by the Lord that they are detained
from Evils, and kept in Good, and that this appears
to them as from' themfelves, they are again taken
up by the Lord into Heaven. SECONDLY : '.That
it is an Error of the prejent Age, that it is thought
the State if ]\,fan's Life can be changed in a Moment,
and that thus Man from being ·wicked can be made
good, cm!fi·quently brought out of Hell, and injlantly
trm?flatcd
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 413
trm!}lated into !leaven, and thh by the immediau
/1-'lcrcy of the Lord: They are in this Error, who
feparate Charity from Faith, and place Salvation in
l''aith alone, for they imagine that the bare think-
ing and uttering of the \Vords adopted by that
Faith, if it be done with Conftdence and Affurance,
jufl:ifieth and faveth ; which Effea is alfo fuppofeu
by fame to be momentaneous, and if not before,
yet at the lafl: Hour of a Man's Life ; fuch Perfons
cannot but think, that Man's State.of Life can be
changed in a Moment, and that he can be faved by
immediate Mercy : But that the Mercy of the
Lord is not immediate, and that Man from being·
wicked cannot be made good in a Moment, and led
out of Hell and tranflated into Heaven, but by con-
tinual Operations of the Divine Providence from
his Infancy to the End of his Life, will be feen in the
lafl: Paragraph of this Treatife : \Ve fhall here only
obferve, that the Laws of the Divine Providence
have all of them for their End the Reformation and
thereby the Salvation of Man, · confequently the
lnverfion of his State, which by Birth is infernal, to
its Oppofite, which is celeflial ; and this can only
be effefl:ed progrefiively, as Man recedcth from
Evil and the Delight thereof, and entereth into
Good and its Delight. THIRDLY : That they 'who
are of tbis Opinion, know not at all 'what is Evil and
what is Good: For they do not know, that Evil is
the Delight of the Concupifcence of aCl:ing and
thinking contrary to Divine Order, and that Good
js the Delight of the AffeCtion of aEtiug and think-
ing according to Divine Order, and that there are
Myriads of Concupifcences, which enter as Ingrc~
dients and compofe every Evil, and that there are
Myriads
414 ANGELic WisDoM coNc.ERNiNe
Myriads of AffeCl:ions, which in li~e- Manner enter
every Good as its Ingredients and compofe it,
<1nd that thefe Myriads of Concupifcences and Af-
feCl:ions exift in fuch Order and Connexion in the
Interiors of Man, that no one of them can be
changed, without changing the whole at the far.1~
Time. They who do not know this, may think
or belieYe, that Evil, which appears to them as one,
can eafily be removed, and that Good, which alfo
appears as one, can be introduced in its Place.,
Thefe, inafmuch as they do not know what Evil is,
and what Good, cannot but fuppofe that there i~
fuch a Thing as momentaneous Salvation and im~
mediate Mercy ; but that thef~ are not poffible,
will be feen in the laft Paragraph of this Treatife.
FouRTHLY: 'Fhat they who believe in momentaneozu
Salvation and immediate IVIercy, do not k;zow that th~
AffiCliom, which are ifthe Will, are mere Changes and
Variations ofthe State of the purely organic Sul!flances
ifthe Mind; and that the Thougbts, 'l.vbicb are ofthe
Unde1jlanding, are mere Changes and Variatio1Zs of
their Form; and that the Memory is the permanent
State of thofe ChangeJ· and Variations. Who doth
not affent, when it is affirmed, that AfFeCtions and
Thoughts do not exifl: but in Subfl:ances and their
Forms, which are the Subjetls thereof, and foraft.
much as they exift in the Brain, which is full of
Subfl:ances and Forms, they are called Forms pure,.
ly organic? No one, who thinks rationally, can do ·
othcrwife than laugh at the Phantafies of fame, iq.
fuppofing that AffeCtions and Thoughts do not ex~
ift in fubftantiate SubjeCts; but that they are Va~
pours modified by Heat and Light, like Figures ap~
. re~rir,,
THE DIVINE PRO\TJDENCE. 415
:pearing in the Air or Ether, when neverthelefa
Thought can n~ more exifl:. feparate from irs fub.
fl:antial Form, than Vifion can exift without its fub.
fiantial Form which is the Eye, Hearing without its
fubfl:antial Form which is the Ear, or Tafl:e without
its fubfhmtial Form which is the Tongue; infpeCl: the
Brain, and you will fee innumerable Subfl:ances and
Fibres, and that every Part of it is organized ; what
Need is there of any other than this ocular Proof?
But it may be afked, what is AffeCl:ion, anc~ what is
Thought, in their fubfl:antiate SubjeCl:s ? A fatisfac-
tory Anfwer may be deduced from all and every
Thing in the Body, where there are many Vifcera,
each fixed in its particular Situation, and which op·
~rate their Funtl:ions by Changes and Variations of
their State and Form ; that they are feverally em-
ployed in their refpeaive Operations, is well known,
the Stomach in operating its FunCl:ions,. and fo the
lnteilines, the Kidneys, the Liver, Pancreas, and
Spleen in theirs, and likewife the Heart and Lungs,
each in its refpeaive Office1 and all thefe Motions
are operated only intrinfically or within themfelves,
and to be moved intrinfically is to operate by Vari-
ations of State and Form. Hence it may appear,
that the·Operations of the purely organic Subfian-
ces of the Mind are of a fimilar Nature, only with
this Difference, that the Operations of the organic
Subfl:ances of the Body are natural, and thofe of the
organic Subfl:ances of the Mind are fpiritual, and
that both thefe aCl: as one by Correfpondences.
There can be no ocular Demonfl:ration of the
Changes and Variations of State and Form in the
~rganic Subfl:ances of the Mind, which are Affec-
tions,
416 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
[ions, but yet they may be feen as .it were in a
Glafs, by .the Changes and Variations of the State
of the Lungs in fpeaking and 11nging, there being
a Correfpondence, inafmuch as the Sound of the
Voice in Speak1ng. and Singing, and alfo the Artic-
ulations of Sound, which are the ·wor'ds in Speech
;md the l\Iodulations of the Voice in Singing, are
effeB:cd by the Lungs, and Sound correfponds to
AffeCtion, and Speech to Thought ; they are alfo
produced thereby, and this is done by Changes and
Variations of the State and Form of the organic
Subfiances of the Lungs, and from the Lungs by
the Trachea or \Vind-pipe in the Larynx and Glot·
tis, and afterwards in the Tongue, and lafl:ly in the
Mouth and Lips ; the firfr Changes and Variations
of the State and Form of Sound are produced in the
Lungs, the fecond in the Trachea and Larynx, the
third in the Glottis b)r various Openings of its Ori·
' fice, the fourth in the Tongue by its various Appli-
cations to the Palate and Teeth, the fifth in the Lips
by difpofing them in various Forms: Hence it maY'
appear, that the mere Changes and Variations of
the State of organic Forms, fucceffively continued,.
produce Sounds and the Articulations thereof,
which are Speech and Singing. Now fbrafmuch.
as Sound and Speech are produced from no other
Source than from the AffeB:ions and Thoughts of
the Mind, for from the latter the former exifl:, and
11ever without them, it is evident that the AffeB:ions
of the \Vill are Changes and Variations of the State
of the purely organic Subfl:ailces of the Mind, and
that the Thoughts of the Underftanding are Chang-
es and Variations of the Form of thofe Subftances;
fi.milar
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 4I7
fimilar to what hath jufr been infranced in the
Lungs. Forafmuch as Affeftions and Thoughts
are mere Changes of the State of the Forms of the
Mind, it follows, that the Memory is Nothing clfe
but the permanent State thereof; for all Changes
and Variations of State in organic Sub/lances are of
fu;:h a Nature, that when once they become habitual,
they are permanent; thus the Lungs are habituated
to produce various Sounds in the Trachea, and to
vary them in the Glottis, to articulate them in the
Tongue, and to modify them in the Mouth, and
when thofe Organs an: once habituated to them,
they are in them, and can be reproduced. That
thefe Changes and Variations are infinitely more
perfeCt: in the Organs of the Mind, than in the Or-
gans of the Body, is evident from what is faid in
the Treatifc concerning THE DrviNE LovE .AND
THE DiviNE WisDoM, n. I I 9 to 204, where it is
fhewn, that all Perfections increafe and afcend with
Degrees, and according to them : On this Subject
more may be feen below, n. 3I 9·
28o. To fuppofe that Sins, when they are remit-
ted, are alfo removed, is likewife an Error of this
Age; they are in this Error, who think that by the
Sacrament of the Lord's Supper their Sins are remit-
ted, although they have not removed them from
themfelves by Repentance: They alfo are in this Er~
ror, who think to be faved by Faith alone; and they
who thi:1k to be faved by Difpenfations from the
Pope; all thefe believe in immedi~te 1\lercy and mo~
mentaneons SaiY<Ition. But when thi.> Propofition
is reverfed, thea it becomes a Truth, namdy, that
when Sins arc removed, the:: are .-,lfo remitted ; for
E .10 e R~pentance
418 ANGELIC \V!SDO:t.l CONCERNING
R epentance muft precede Remiffion, and without
Repentance there is no Remiffion ; wherefore the
Lord commanded his D ifciples to preach Repent·
ance for the Remifi:on of Sins, Luke xxiv. 27 :
1\nd John preached the llaptifm of Repentance for
the RcmiiT:on of Sins, Luke iii. 3· The Lord re-
mitteth the Sins of all Men, he doth not accufe and
impute, but yet he cannot take them away but ac-
cording to the Laws of his Divine Providence; for
fince he faid to Peter (who aiked him how often he
fhould forgi\'e his Brother when he finned againfl
him, whether till fe\·en Times) that he ought to for-
give him not cnly feven Times, but fcventy Times
feven, 11att. x\·iii. 2 I, 2 2 ; what then will not the
Lord do, ·who is Mercy itfelf?
281. IV. 'That thus the Pcrmf!Jion if E'L•il is fer
a certain End, ·z.ohich End is Salvation. It is well
known, that l\lan· is in full Liberty to think and
will, but not in full Liberty to fpeak and aEl: "'hat~
foe"er he thinketh and willcth, for he may think ::~s
an Atheift, deny a God, and blafphemc the holy
Things of the \Vord and of the Church, yea, he
may will in Y\Tord and in Deed utterly to defhoy
them ; Lut this latter is prevented by civil, moral,
and ecclefidl:ical Laws, wherefore he inwz.rdly cher-
ifhes thefe impious and wicked Suggeftions, by
thinking and willing, or wif'ning, and alfo by intend.
ing them, but not by doing them. A Man, who is
not an Atbcift, is alfo at full Liberty to think many
Things which ::~rc of Evil, as Things fraudulent~
lakivious, vindiCtive, and other Infanities, which he
alfo does at Times. Who can believe, that unlefs
!vlan had f,.lll Liberty, he not only could not 'be
faved,
TnE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 419
faved, but would even perifh totally? Hear now the
Caufe of this ; every Man from his Birth is in Evils
of many Kinds; tbefe Evils are in his \ViH, and
the Things which are in the \Vill are loved, for
that which a Man willetl1 from his Interior, the
fame he loveth, and that which he loveth, the fame
he willeth ; and the Love of the Will Howeth into
the Underfl:anding, and there caufeth its Delight to
be felt : Hence it cometh into the Thoughts, and
alfo into the Intentions ; wherefore if it were not
permitted Man to think according to the Love of
his ·will, which is hereditarily inherent in him,
that Love would continue fhut up, and would never
come to Sight ; and the Love of Evil, which doth
not appear, is like an Enemy lying in wait, like cor-
rupted Matter in an Ulcer, like Poifon in the Blood,
and like Rottennefs in the Breafl: ; which, if they
are kept inclofed, are the Caufes of Death. But
when a Man is permitted to think the Evils of his
Life's Love, even fo far as to intend them, they
are cured by fpiritual Means, as Difeafes are by
natural 1\leans. \Vhat would be Man's State
and Nature, if it were not permitted him to think
according to the Delights of his Life's Love,
:lhall now be {hewn : He would no longer be 1\'Ian,
for he would lofe the two Faculties, which are call.
ed Liberty and Rationality, in which Humanity ity
felf confifls ; the Delights of the above Evils would
occupy the Interiors of his lVIind in fuch a. Degree,
that they would overcome all Refl:rainr, and open
the Door, and then he could not help fpeaking and
:td:ing according to the Ddights of thofe Evils, and
thus would be infane, and his Infanity would not
only
420 ANGELIC WrsDOM CONCERNING
only be known to himfelf, but would alfo appear
to the ·world, and at length he would not have the
Senfe to cover his Nakednefs: But to prevent this
being the Cafe, he is permitted indeed to think and
to will his hereditary Evils, but not to fpeak and do
them ; and in the mean Time he learns Things
ciYil, moral, and fpiritual, which alfo enter into his
Thoughts, and remove thefe Infanities, and thereby
he is healed of the Lord, but yet no farther than to
know how to keep the Door fhut, unlefs he alfo ac.,.
knowledge a God, and implore his Affifl:ance, that
he may be able to refifl: the above Evils : And fo
far as he then refifis, fo far he doth not admit them
into his Intentions, and at length neither into his
Thoughts. Since then Man is at Liberty to think
as he pleafes, to the End that his Life's Love may
come forth from its lurking Place into the Light of
his Underftanding, and fmce otherwife he would
not know any Thing of his own Evil, and confe.,.
quently would not know how to e~pel it, it follows,,
that it would increafe in him in fuch a Meafure,
thai: there \Vould be no Poffibility of Amendment
in him, and fcarcely in his Children, if he h·ad any ;
for the EYil of the Parent is tranfmitted to his Off-
fpring ; but the Lord maketh Provifion that thi~
may not be the Cafe.
282. The Lord could cure the Underftanding in
every Man, and fo caufe him to think not Evil, but
Good, and this by Means of Yarious Fears, hy Mira-
cles, by fpeaking with the Dead, and by Vifions and
Dreams; but to cure the Uncler!l:anding only, is
barely to cure Man outwardly ; for the Under.
fii-nding with its Thought is the External of Lifa
lJ;l
THE DIVINE PROVIDENC!':. 4-21
in Man, and the ·will with its Affecrion is the In-
ternal of his Life, wherefore the Cure of the Un-
derftanding alone wouhl be like a palliative Cure,
whereby the intct;ior Malignity is included, and
prevented from making its Exit, fo that it con-
fumes firfl: the neighbouring Parts and afterwards
the more remote, till the whole is mortified ; it is
the \Vill itfelf which is to be cured, not by Influx
of the Underfl:anding into it, becaufe that never
-takes Place, but by Infl:ruEl:ion and Exhortation
from the Underflanding. Jf the Underllanding
c.lonc were cured, Man would become like a ciead
:Body embalmed, or covered over with fragrant
Aromatics and Rofes, which in a fhort Time would
contraCt fuch a Stench from the Corpfe, that no
l3ody could come near it ; fuch would be the Cafe
with celefl:ial Tmths in the Underfl:anding, if the
evil Love of the Will were obfl:ruB:ed.
283. The Reafon why Man is permitted to think
Evils, even fo far aS" to intend them, is, as was ob-
ferved, that they may be removed by Confiderations
of a civil, moral, and fpiritual Nature: as is the Cafe
when he thinks, that they arc contrary to Jufl:ice
and Equity, contrary to Honefl:y and Decency,
and contrary to Goodnefs and Truth, therefore
€ontrary to the Tranquillity, Pleafure, and Hap-
pinefs of Life ; by thefe three Confiderations the
Lord healeth the Love of Man's \Vi!! ; and indeed
at firfl: by Fear, and afterwards by Love. Still
l:owever Evils are not feparated and cafl: out from
Ma:1, but only removed and put away to the Sides,
and when they are there, then they do not appear ;
for whatfoever is in the Middle, the fame is direcrly
under
422 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
under Infpeftion, and is feen and perceived : But it
is to be attended to, that although Good be in the
.l\liddle, yet 1\Ian is not for that Reafon in Good,
uniefs the Evils \vhich are at the Sides, tend down-
wards and outwards ; if they look upv..·ards or in-
wards, they are not removed, for they f!:iH endeav-
our to return to the Middle : They tend and look
downwards or outwards, when Man fhuns his Evils
as Sins, and flill more fo, \vhen he hath an Averfion
to them, for then he condemns and devotes them
to Hell, and caufeth them to look. thitherward.
284- The Underf!:anding of l\1an is a Recipient
as •.veil of Good as of Evil, and as weU of Truth as
of the Falfe, hut not the Will of Man ; this lafl:
Principle rnufl: be either in Evil or in Good, it can-
not be in both, for the \Viii is the Man himfelf, and
therein is his Life's Love: But Good and Evil in the
U nderfi:anding are feparated, like Internal and Exter-
nal; hence Man may be interiorly in Evil, and exteri-
orly in Good : Still however, when Man is reformed,
Good and Evil are committed, and then there exifl:s
a ConfiiCl:, or Combat, which, ifit is grievous, is call-
ed Temptation, but if it is not grievous, is like the
Fermentation of Wine or Wort; in fuch Cafe ifGood
overcomes, Evil with its Falfe is removed to the Sides,
comparatively as the Lees fall to the Bottom of a
Ve!fel, and Good becometh like '\Vine after Fermen-
tation generous and fine; but ifEvil overcomes, then
Good with its Truth is removed to the Sides, and it
becomes turbid and foul like unfermented VJine.
"\Ve ufc this Comparifon of Fermentation, becaufe
Ferment in the \VorJ fignifies the Falfe of Evil, as in
Hofea vii. 4· Luke xii. 1 ; and in other Places.
c[bat
THE DunNE PROVIDENCE. 423
Tlzat tlze Divine Providence is alihe op-
cratiee with t/ze lViched_ as with t!te
Good.
'
285· INevery Man, whether he be good or evil,
there are two Faculties, one of which con-
fiitutes the Underflanding and the other the \Viii ;
the Faculty which confl:itutes the Underfia~cling,
confifls in his being able to underfl:and and think,
and thence is called Rationality ; and the Faculty
which conftitutes the 'Will, confifls in his being
able freely to do fo, viz. to think, and thence alia
to fpeak and aCl:, provided it be not contrary to
Reafon or Rationality; for to aCl: freely, is to ate
as often as he willeth, and according as he willeth.
Inafmuch as thefe two Faculties are perpetu::tl, and
continual from Primaries to Ultimates in all and
every Particular, which a Man thinketh ~;!d beth,
and there are not in Man from himfelf, but are iu
bini from the Lord, it follows, that the Lord's Pref-
ence with and in there Faculties hath Place alfo in
each Particular, yea in each mofi minute Particular
of the Underflanding and Thought, as well as of
the \Vill and AffeEl:ion of Man, and theqce in the
moll minute Particulars of his Speech and ACtions ;
remove thefe Faculties from any the fmallefl: Partie-
,ular, and you will not be able to think it or fpeak it
as a :r\1an. That Man is Man by Virtue of thcfe
two Faculties, that he can hereby think <ln,l fpeak,
perceive Goods and underfumd T ruths, not only
fuch
424 ANGELIC \VrsDOM CONCERNINO
\
fuch as ::Ire civil and moral, but alfo fpirit_ual, and:·
be reformed and regenerated, in a Word, that he
can be joined unto the Lord, and thereby live eter-
nally, was abundantly fhewn above~ and it was alfo
:fhewn, that rhefe two Faculties are poifeffed not
only by good Men, but alfo by the Wicked. Now
forafmuch as thcfe Faculties in Man are from the
Lord, and not appropriated to Man as his own, for
the Divine (or that which is Divine) cannot be ap-
propriated to Man as his own, but can be adjoined
to him, and thereby appear as his ; and forafmuch
as that Divine [Property] in Man exifls in the moft
minute particulars appertaining to him, it follo·ws,
that the Lord governs Things the moll particular,
as well in a wicked as in a good Man ; and it is the
Government of the Lord which is called the Divine
Providence.
286. Now fince it is a Law oF the Divine Provi·
dencc, that Man fhould aB.: freely according to Rea-
fo·n, that is, from thefe two Faculties, Liberty and
Rationality ; and it is ~tlfo a Law of the Divine
Providence, that that which he doeth, fhodd ap-
pear to .Man as from himfelf, and confequently as
his own ; arid it is moreover a Law, that Evils are
to be permitted to the End that he may be led out
of ihem, it follows, that Man may abufe thefe Fac•
ultics, and from Liberty accordinb to Reafon con-
firm whatfoever he will, far he c:!n make whatfoever
be will a Perfuauon of his Reafon, whether ic b::!
reafonable i!l itfelf or not ; wherefore feme fay,
'What is Truth ? Cannot I make true whatioever 1
will ? And doth not the VIorld alfo do fo ? Yet he
who can do this, doeth it by Rec.fonings ; aiTume a
Propofitiou
THE DIViNE PRdVIDENCE. 425
Propofition the molt falfe, and tell an ingenious
Perfon to confirm it, and he will do fo ; as for Ex~
ample, tell him to prove that Man is a Beafl: ; or
that the Soul is like a little Spider in its VIeb,
d.nd go\'erns the Body as the Spider does by its
Threads ; or that Religion is Nothing b~;t a Bond
of Confrraint to keep the Vulgar in Awe; and he
will prove any of thcfe Propofitions, infomuch that
it \vill appear true : .t\.nd what is eafier ? for he do~h
hot know what an App~arance is, rtor what a falfe
Principle is, \rhich from a blind Belief is affumed as
a Trut,h : Hence it is, that Man cannot fee this
Tnith, that the Divine ProYidence operates in the
h1oft minute P,1tticulars of the U nderftanding and
\¥ill; or, what amounts to the fame Thing, in the
lnofl: minute Particulars of the Thoughts and Af-
fefrions of c\·ery Man, as well the \Vicked as the
Good :. He confounds himfelf principally by fuppo.;.
fing; that in this Cafe Evils alio would be from the
Lord ; neverthelcfit. that not the leaft Evil is front
the Lord, but that it is from Man, by Means of hi:1
c~nfinning in himfelf the Appearance that he thinkif
\vills, fpcaks, ~nd acrs from himfdf, 'will be feen in
\\'hat now follows ; which, th:it it may be clearly
l.lnderfl:ood, fhall be de:nonfhated in this Order. •
J. That the Divine Providence, no:: only 'l.vith the
Good, but alfo with the Wicked, is uhiverfaliy in
things the moll particular ; and that ftill it is 110t
in th:!ir Evils. 2. That the "Ticked continually
!ead themfelves into £,·lis, but that the Lord coH-
tinually withdrav:eth ·them froh1 Evils. 3· That
the ·wicked cannot be entirely led out of Evil; and
led into GooJ, fo long as they think fdf-derivcd
F ~ f lntelli~ence
426 ANGELIC \VISDOM ~ONCERNING
Intelligence is a·ll, and the Divine Providence Noth·
ir1g. 4· That the Lord governs Hell by Oppofites,
and that the \\Ticked who are in the \Vorld are
governed by Him in Hell as to their Interiors, but
not as to Exteriors.
z87. I. That tbe Divine Providence, not only witb
the Good, but a!Jo with tbe Wicked, is uni'i.:cJjal in
Things the mqfl particular, and that .fiill it is not in
their Evils. It was fbewn above, that the Divin\!
Providence is (or operates) in all the lcafl: Particu-
lars of the Thoughts and Affe&ions of Men, by
which it is meant, that Man can think and will
Nothing from himfelf, but tbt all that he thinketh
and \Yilleth; and thence fpeaketh ~nd docth, is by In-
flux ; if it is Good, by Influx from He<t,~en, and if
.Evil, by Influx from Hell ; or, what amounts to
the fame, that Good is by Influx from the Lord,
and Evil from the Proprium of Man. But I know
th<1t this is difficult to be comprehended, bccaufe a
Di.fi:in&ion is made between that which ente;;rs by
"Influx from Heaven; or from the Lord, and that
which enters by Influx from Hell, or from the Pro-
prium of Man ; and yet it is faid that the Di,·inc
Providence is in all the leaft Particulars of the
Thoughts and Afie&ions of Man, infomuch that
Man can think and will Nothing from himfelf; but
becaufe it is faid, that he can alfo think and \viii
from Hell, and from his P1:oprium, this appears like
a ContradiCtion, ncverthelefs it is not ; that it is
not a Contradiction, will be fcen, after fame Things
are premifed, which will illdl:rate this Matter.
288. All the Angels c.f Heaven confefs, that no
one can think from himfelf, but only from the
.. LordJ
T-nE DIVINE PRovrnE~cE. 427
Lore, but all the Spirits of Hell affirm that no one
can think from any other than himfelf ; though
fometimes it hath been lhewn the latter, that not
cne of them thinks from himfelf, nor· can do it, but
that Thought is produced by Influx;· in vain how-
ever was this !hewn rhem, for they would not receive
it. But Experience !hall ~each, fidl1 that the whole
of Thought and AffeCtion, e\·en in the.iRferr{ai Spi-
rits, flows from Heaven, but that influent Good is
there turned into Evil, and influent Truth into
Falfehood,- and fo every Thing into its Oppofite ;
this was proved by the following Experiment; there
was let down out of Heaven a certain Truth front
the ·word, and the fame was received by thofe who
were in the fuperior Hells, and fent down from them
to tbe inferior Hells, and fo on to the lowefi, and in
its Pa!fage, it was fucceffi\·ely turned into Falfehood~
and at length into fuch Falfehood as was direftly
cppofite to this Truth; and they, among whom it
was fo changed, thought what is falfe as from them-
felves, and ·knew no otherwife, when neverthelefs
what they thought was this Truth defcending from
Heavin fo falfified and perverted in its \Vay to the
lowefl: Hell. I have heard that this was Jone three
or fom Times : The Cafe is the fame with Good,
which in its Defi;ent from Heaven is progreilively
turned into Evil oppofitc to that Good. Thence it
was evident, that Truth and Good proceeding from
the Lord, when it is receh·ed by thofe who are in
the FaUe and in Evil, is changed, and paifeth in<
o
:mother Form, infomuch that its firfi Form doth
not appear. And fo it is with every wicked Man,
for fuch acne a:; to his Spirit is in Hell.
289. That
4~S 1\.NG!LlC \VISDOM CONC.ElllHNG
'
Z~9· That neither doth any one in Hell think,
from himfelf, but from others about him, nor thofe
others from themfelves, but ftom other~ fl:ill, anc\
that Thoughts and Afrt:Ctions make an orderly Pro..
greffion fron1 one Society to another, without any
one's knowing otherwife than that they are from
himfelf, hath often been fuewn me. Some, who
fuppofed they thought and willed from themfelves,.
were fent into a Society, all Communication being
~ut off with their Neighbours, to.whom alfo their
Thoughts ufed to extend themfelves, and were de..
tained therein ; and then they were told to think oth..
erwife than the Spirits of that Society tho'ught, and
to force themfelves ~o think contrary to it, but they
confeifed that they found it ~mpoffible. This wa~
done with many, and likewife with Leibnitz, who'
was alfo convinced, that no one thinks from him..
felf, but from others, and that neither do thofe oth-
ers think from themfelves, but all by Influx from
H eaven, and Heaven, by lnflux from the Lord,
Some, when they meditated on this Matter, faid that
h was aftonifhing, and that fcarce any one wo~ld be
led to believe it, becaufe it is quite contrary to Ap~
p~arance, but that yet they could not deny it, be-
caufe it was fully proved ; neverthelefs, in their
$tate of Admiration, they faid, that at _
this Rate
they are not in Fault, when they thin~ Evil; alfo,
that thus it feems as if Evil were from the Lord ;
and moreover, that they did not comprehend, how
the Lord alone could c2ufe all to think fo diflerent-
ly. But thefe three Points fhall be explained in.
what follows.
THE DIVINE PltOYIDENCE. 4:!9
290. To the Experience already adduc~d, this
;~.lfo !hall be added : \Vhen it was given me by the
Lord to fpeak with Spirits nnJ Angels, this Arca-
num was immediately reveded to me ; for it was
told me out of Heaven, that I believed as others do,
that!-thought and wiiled from myfelf,when neverthc-
!efs it is noi: from myfelf, but if good, that it is from ..
the Lord, and ifevil, that it is from Hell : That this
was the Cafe, \vas alfo demonfl:rated to me in a lively
.Manner by various Thoughts and11ffecrions induced,
and it was given mefucceffively to perceive and feel it;
wherefore afterwards, as foon as any Evil fiole into
my v~;nn, or any falfe Principle into my Thoughts, 1
inquired whence ir came, and it was difcovered to me:~
and moreover it was given to fpeak with Them, tore-
.. buke them, and to drive them away that they might
retire, and fo withdraw their evil and falfe Principle~
and keep it to themfelves, apd no longer infufe any
fuch Thing into my Thouglas : This hath been done
a thoufand Times; and in this State I have remained
now for many Years, and fiiil continue in it ; and yet
I feem to myfelf to think and ,..,.ill from myfe!f like
others,- without any Difference ; for it is of the
Lord's Divine Providence that it {h~uld fo appear
to every one, as was !hewn c.bove in its proper Ar-
ticle. Novitiate Spirits wonder at this my State,
for it feems to them as if I diu not think and. will
any Thing from myfelf, and therefore that I am like
Something empty; but I opened this Arcanum to
t;1em ; and moreover that I alfo think more i::teri-
orly, and perceive what flows into my exterior
Thought, whether it be from Heaven or from
llell, and that I re}eci: the latter and receive the
former,
430 ANGELIC \VtsDOM CONCERNING
former, and that fl:ill I feem to myfelf, juft as they
do, to think and will from myfelf.
zg I. That all Good is from Heaven, and all
Evil from Hell, is not unknown in the ·world;
jt is known to every one in the Church ; who,
that is admitted to the Priefi:hood, doth not teach
that all Good is from God, and that Man cannot
take any Thing from himfelf, whi<.:h is not given
him from Heaven ; alfo that the Devil infufeth
Evils into Men's Thoughts, and feduceth them,
and exciteth them to do Evils ?. \Nherefore a
Prieil:, who thinks he preacheth from holy Zeal,
.prayeth that the Holy Gho!1: would teach him,
lead and in~uence his Thoughts and INords, and
fome fay they perceive fenfibly that they are aB:ed
upon, and when their Preachings are -commended,
anfwet piouily, that they did not fpeak from them-
felves, but from God. \Vherefore alfo, when they
fee any one fpeak and act well, they fay he was led
of God to do it ; and on the other Hand, when
they fee any one fpeak and act wickedly,. they fay
be was led to it by the Devil ; That this is · the
Language of the Church, is well known; but who
believes in the Truth of it ?
zg2. That all that a Man thinks and wills, and
con1'equently fays and does, flows from the only
Fountain of Life, and that Il:ill the only Fountain
of Life, which is the Lord, is not the Caufe of
Man's thinking Evil and Falfe, may be illufi:ratecl
by the following Circumfi:ance in the natural
\Vorld : From its Sun there proceedeth Heat and
Light, and thefe two flow into all the Subjects and
ObjeCl:s which we fee~ not only into good Subjects
· and
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 4Jl
and beautiful ObjeCts, but alfo into evil SubjeCts
and unbeautiful ObjeCts, and produce in them va-
rious Etfetl:s : For they flow not only into Trees
which bear good Fruit, but alfo into Trees which
bear bad Fruit, yea even into the Fruits themfelves,
and caufe th~m to vegetate ; in like l\1~nner they
flow into good Seed, and alfo into Tares ; likewife
into ufeful or wholefome Shrubs, and alfo into
hurtful or poifonous Shrubs ; and yet it is the fame
Heat and the fame Light, iil which there is not any
Caufe of Evil, for that exifl:s in the recipient Sub-
jeCts and Objc;,cl:s. The Aftion of Heat in hatching
Eggs, in which there is an Owl, a Screech-Owl, or
an Afp, is the fame as in hatching E~gs which con-
tain a Dove, a beautiful Bird, or a Swan; fet both
Kinds ofEggs uader a Hen, and they will be hatch-
ed by her Heat, which in itfelf is harmlefs ; y;hat
then hath the Heat in common with thefe evil ·and
noxious Things ? The Action of Heat,, when it
flows into marJhy Grounds, ficrcora~eous, putrid,
and cadaverous Subfiances, is the fame as when it
flows into vinous, fragrant, vegetating, and living
Subfl:ances ; who but mull: fee, that the Caufc
doth not exill: in the Heat, but in the recipient Sub4
jett? Moreover, the fame Light produces in one •
ObjeCt beautiful, .and in another difagreeable Col~
oars ; yea, it brighteneth itfelf in white Objects
and fhineth, and becomes opaque in ObjeCts verg-
ing towards black, and darkencth itfelf. It is the:
fame in the fpiritual Vforld, there alfo there is
Heat and Light from the Sun thereof, which is the
Lord ; this Heat and Light flow from Him into
their SubjeCt~ ;md ObjeCts; the SulJjeets and Ob-
jects
432 ANGELIC \VtsDOM CONCtRNtNO
jeas there are Angels and Spirits, fpecifically th~
"fhings appertaining to their voluntary and in..
tdlectual Faculties ; the Heat there is the proceed..
iz!g Divine Love, and the Light there is the pro•
ceeding Divine \Vifdom ; the Caufe 'vhy they are
received differently by one and by another, doth
not exi!l: in the Heat and Light ; for the Lord
f<titT1, " That he maketh his Sun to rife on the
Evii and on the Good~ and fendeth Rain on the
Juft and on the Unjufl:," Matt. v. 45; by Sun, in ..
the fupreme fpiritual 3enfe, is meant the Divine:
Love, and by Rain the Divine \VifJom.
293· To this I will add a Sentiment of the An·
gels [Ai1gelica Sententia] concerning vVill and In.-
telligcllce in Man ; their Sentiment is this, that
there doth not exift in any 1\Ian one Grain of \Viii
or PruJ~nce that is proper to himtelf; for they fay,
if there exilled one Grain in any M~n; neither.
Heaven nor Hell could hold together, and the whole
human Race would perifh; the "Reafon, they fi1y,
is, becaufc Myriads of Myriads of Men, as man)'
as have been born fince the Creation of the \Vorld;
conftitute Heaven and Hell, which al"e fo fubordi·
nate one to another; th::lt on each Part they make
one, Heaven one beautiful Man, and Hell one
1\'lan-Monfter ; and if any lingle Perfon had a fin..
· gle Grain of Will and Intelligence of his own,
this One could not poffihly exifl:, but would be di[.
traB:ed, and with it th:lt IJivi:J.e Form would pcrifh ;
which can no othenvife conf:fl: and be permanent~
than \Vhen the Lord is All in All, and they alto•
gether Nothing. They fay, another Reaion is:
bcc;lllfe the Divine Principle tonfiils cfl~ntially in
thinking
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 433
thinking and willing from itfclf, and the human
Principle confi!l:s effentially in thinking and willing
from God; and what is eflentially Divine cannot
be ::1ppropriated to il.ny Man, for in that Cafe Mall
would be a God. I:eep this in Remembrance, and
if you defire, it will be confirmed to you by the
Angels, when you enter into the fpiritual \\:orld af.
ter Death.
294· It was obfervcd above, n. 289, that when
fome were convinced that no one thinks fi-om him-
felf, but from others, and that all thofe others think,
not from themfelves, but by Influx through Heaven
from the Lord, they faid in Admir(!tion, that as
this is the Cafe, they are not blameable when they
do Evil; alfo, that as this is the e1fc, i~ fccms that
Evil is from the Lord; and lik.ewife that they did
not .comprehend, that the Lord alone could caufc
all to think fo diverfely. Now inafmuch as thefe
three Suggeftions cannot but flow into the Thoughts
of thofe who only think of E~ecis from EffeCts, and
not of EffeCts from Caufe~, it is neceifary that they
fhould be aifumed, and explained from their Cauf-
es. FIRST : That as this is the Cafe, it 'would not be
tbeir Fault, if they did E'l-·il: For if all that a Man
thinks fiows from others, it feems as if the Fault
were in thofe from whom it flows; neverthelefs the
Fault is in him who receives, for he receiv.:::s it JS
his own, nor doth he know any othen·:ife, neither
doth he with to know any otherwifc ; for every one
ddires to be his own, and to be guided by himfet'f,
and efpecially to think and will for himf::lf; for this
i~ Liberty i~lclf, which appears as proper to 1\lan,
or a~ the Proprinm in which eYcry J.\1an is; wtere.
G o g· f..)fe
434 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
fore if he knew, that whatfoever he thinketh and
willeth, flows from another, he would feem to him-
felf to be in C"!~ptivity and in Chains, and no longer
Mafl:er of himfelf, and fo all the Delight of his
Life would perifh, and at leP-gth his Humanity itfclf.
That this is the Cafe, I have frequently feen prov~
ed ; it was given certain Spirits to percci~·e and feel
that they '"ere led by others, and then their Anger
'vas kindled to fuch a Degree, that they became as
it were befide themfelves, and faid, that they would
rather be kept in Chains in Hell, than not to be al-
lov,;ed to think as they will, and will as they think :
Not to be allowed to do this, they called being
ch::1ined "·ith Refpect to their very Lives, which
was harder and more intolerable than being chain-
ed with Refpeft to their Bodies ; not to be allowed
to fpeak and aa as they thought and willed, this
they did not call being chained, becaufc the Delight
of civil and moral Life, which conflfis in fpeaking
and ac:tiug, rcfl:rains, and at the fame Time as it
were alleviates the Refhaint. No\v forafmuch as
Man doth not defire to know, that he is led to think
by others, but is defirous to think from himfelf,
and alfo believes that he does it, it follows that the
Fault is in himfelf, neither can he free himfelffrom it,
fo long as he continues to think \vhat he docs think;
but if he does not love it, he diffoh'es his Conncxion
\Yith thole from whom his Thought flows; this is
the Cafe when he knows that it is Evil, and therefore
dcfire5 to !hun it, and defiil: from it; then alfo he
is taken away ofthe Lord from the Society, wl1ich
is in that Evil, and tran!1ated to a Society in \\ hich
th;~t Evil dc,es not exill:; but if he knows the Evil,
U..'1\l
TnE DIVINE PRovrD:cNcr. 435
anc.l cloth not fhnn it, then the Fault is imputed to
him, and he becomes guilty of that Evil. There-
fore whatfocver a Man thinks he does from himfelf,
the fame is faid to be done from the Man, and not
from the Lord. SrcoNDLY: 'Tbat as tbi.r is the
Cafe, itJmns tbat E·r:il i.r from tbe Lord: This may
be thought to be a Conclufion deducible from what
· as lhewn above, u. 288, which is, that influent
Good from the Lord is turned into Evil, and Truth
into what is Falfe, in Hell: But who cannot fee,
that Evil and the falie Principle are not from.
Goodnefs and Truth, confequently not from the
Lord, but from the recipient SubjeCt and Objefr,
which is in Evil, and in the falfe Principle, and per-
verts and inverts Goodnefs and Truth, as was alfo
fully fhewn aboYe, n. 292? Whence the Evil anJ
falfe Principle in Man proceeds, is in many Places
:lhewn in the pr:.:ceding Pages. A n Experiment
was alfo made in the fniritual V:lorld \Vith thofe who
.
thought that the Lord could remove Evils fi·om the
Wicked, and introduce Good in Place thereof, and.
fo transfer all Hell into Hea\'e!1, a!1d fJ.ve all; but
that this is impofiible, will be ft:en at the Lnl of thi.:>
Treatile, where momentalleous Sah·ation and imme-
diate Mercy are treated of. Tli!RDLY: Tht11 they
did not conprehend, bo'1.o tbc Lord akne ccu!d rcu!J: all
to tbink fo dh.'c~(ely : The Divine Love of the LorJ
is infinite, and bis Di\·i11e \ Vifdmn i~; ir.iinit<', and
infinite Things of L ove and ird1nite Things of\\'i1:
dom proceed from the Lurd~ anti f1,w; intc all in
Heaven, and thcnrt: into ::~11 in Ilc!i, :m.l ii- ):11 both
into all the \Vorld ; wherefore there cannot be
wanting to ~y or:c S~.nctLi:10 to think and to will.t
fer
436 ANGTILIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
for infinte Things are infinitely all. Thofe infinite
Thinss, which proceed from the Lord, not only
flow univerfally, but alfo mofl: particularly, for the
Divine [Agency] is univerfal, by taking Plac.c in
Things the moft particular, and it is Divine Partic-
ular's ·,vhich compofe what is called Uni\·erfal, as was
fhewn above ; and the mofl: minute Divine Particu-
lar is alfo infinite. Hence it may appear, that the
Lord alone caufeth every one to think and will ac-
cording to his ~aliry, and according to the Laws
of his Providence. That all the Things which are
in the Lord, and proceed from the Lord, are infi.
nite, was fhewn above, n. 46 to 69 ; and alfo in the
Treatife on THE DIVINE LovE AND THE DIVINE
\iVIsnoM, n. 17 to 22.
Z95· II. 'fhat the vVi~ked continually lead then!felvcs
into E"Ji!s; but tbat tbe Lord continually leadeth them
out rfE'"v·ih. How the Divine Providence operates
with the Good, may be more eafily comprehended,
than hvw it operates with the Evil; and forafmuch
.:s the latter Operation is now treated of, it fhall be
fet forth in the following Series. I. That there
me Things innumerable in every Evil. 2. That
the wicked Man from himfelf plungeth himfelf con-
tinually more and more deeply into his Evils. 3·
That the Divine Providence with the ·wicked is a
continual Permift!on of Evil, to the End that there
may be a continual AbduCtion the:·efrom, or that
they may be continually drawn out of it. 4· That
AbduEtion or Deliverance from Evil is efli:Etcd of
the Lord by athoufand moil fecret Means.
296. In Order then that the Natote of the Di-
;,1.nc Providence in its Ope!J.tion \vith the \Nicked
Lmy
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 437
may be difl:inctly perceived, and fo comprehended,
the abo¥e Propofitions fldl be explained in the Or-
der in •vhich they arc adduced: FIRST: 'IZwt there
are 'Things innumerable in every Evil: Every Evil ap-
pears to Man as one fimple Thing, this is the Cafe
with Hatred and Revenge, alfo with Theft and
Fraud, Adultery and Whoredom, Pride and High-
mindedncfs, and with every other Evil; and it is
not known that in every Evil there are Things in-
numerable, exceeding in Number tl:c Fibres and
VeiTels in a l\'lan's Body ; for a wicked Man is a
· Hell in its leaf!:. Form, and Hell confifl:s of Myriads
of Myriads, and every one there is in a hum;:.n Form
although it be a monfl:rous one, and all :he Fibres
and all the Vefiels in it are inverted; the Spirit it-
felf is Evil, appearing to itfelf as one; but innume-
rable as the Things are that :1rc in it, io innumera-
ble are the Concnpifcences of its Evil; for every
Man is his own Eril or his own Good from the
Crown of his Head to the Sole of his Foot : Since
then a wicked Man is {uch, it is eYident that he is
one Evil, compofed of various innumerable ones,
v-:hich are difiinaly ETils, and are called Concup1-
fcences of Evil. Hence it follows, that all thefe in
their Order arc to be repaired and converted of the
Lord, to the End that Man may be reformed, and
that this cannot be eflefted but by the DiYine Pro,•-
idence, fucceffively from the earliefl: Period of Man's
Life to its Termination. Ewry Concupifcence of
Evil appears in Hell, when it is reprefented, like
fomc noxious .Animal ; as for Example, either like
a Dragon, or a Bafilifk, or a Viper, or an Owl, or a.
Screech-Owl, and fo forth ; in the fame Manner do
th~
.4-38 ANGELIC \VlSDOU CONCERNING
I
the Concupifcences of Evil appear about a wicked
Man, wJlen he is viewed by the Angels ; all thefe
}~orms of Concupifcences are to be changed feverat-
ly ; the Man himfelf, who with Refpetl: to his
Spirit appears as a Monfl:er or a Devil, is to be con-
verted that he may become like a beautiful Angel,
and each Concupifcence of Evil is to be converted
or changed, that it may appear like a Lamb or a
Sheep, or like a Pigeon, and a Turtle Dove, as the
good AffeCtions of the Angels appear in Heaven,
when they are re.prefented ; and the Conver!ion of
a Dragun into a Lamb, of a Ba!ilifk into a Sheep,
and of an Owl into a Dove, cannot be effecred ex-
c;ept progreDively, by rooting out Evil from its
Seed, and fowing good Seed in the Place of it.
But this mufl: be done co~nparati\·ely like the in-
grafting of Trees, the Roots of wliich with fome
of the Trunk remain ; nevcrthelefs the ingrafted
Branch converts the Juices extracred from the old
Root into Juices producing good Fruit : The
Branch which is to be ino~ularw:d cannot be ta:>.en
from any other but from the Lord, who is the Tree
of Life ; which is alfo acconJing to the \llord of
the Lord, John xv. I to 7· S:iCONDLY: Tbat the
'lvicl:cd lvlan froiJl hi77!fi:[f crmtinually plungeth bin!felf
more deeply into bis Evils : It is faid, from himlelf~
becaufe all Evil is from Man, for he converteth the
Good which is from the Lord .into Evil, as was faid
above. The true Reafon why- the wicked Man
plungeth himfelf more deeply into Evil, is, becaufe
he iatroduceth himfelf more and more interiorly,
:and alfo more and more deeply, into infcrn~1l So.
cieties, as he will~th and doeth Evil ; thence alfo
• the
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 439
the Delight of Evil increafcth, and fo occupies his
Thoughts, that at laft he feels nothing more pleaf~
<~nt ; and he who hath introduced himfelf more
intcriotly and profoundly into infernal Societies,
becometh like one bound in Chains ; but fo long
as l:e li\Tth in the \Vorld, he doth not feel his
Ch:1ins, for :hey are like foft \Yool, or fine filken
Threads, which he loves becaufe they are pleafure-
able; but after 'Di!ath thofe Chains fro m foft be-
come hard, and infl:ead of being pleafureable, they
are galling. That the Delight of Evil is capable of
Increafe, is well known from Thefts, Robberies,
Revenges, Depredations, Tyrannies, Defire of Lu-
cre, and other Evils ; \Vho doth not feel Elevations
of the Delight of thefe Evils, in Proportion to his
Succefs and unrefrrained PraCtice thereof ? It is
well k..'lown, that the Thief feels fuch Delight in
Thefts, that he cannot defifr from them, and, what
is wonderful, that he loves one H:olen Piece of
Money better than ten that are given him : It would
be the fame with Adulteries, if it were not provid-
ed, that the Power of committing that Evil de-
creafes according to the Abufe of it ; but yet with
many there remaineth a Delight in thinking and
fpeaking of it, and if Nothing more, a Lufl: of
touching. But it i:; not known what is the Reafon
of this Increafe of Delight, and that it is a Confc-
quence of the Perfon's introducing himfelf ir.to
infernal Societies more and more interiorly, and
more and more deeply, as he commits Evils in \Viii,
and at the fame Time in ThoLJght ; if they are on-
ly in Thought, and not in \Viii, he is not yet with
Evil in an infernal Society, but he then CI)ters wh'en
they .
4-<tO AxGELIC vVISDOM CON'CERNING
they are alfo in the \Vill ; if in this Cafe he thinks
aHo that fuch Evil is contrary to the Precepts of
the Decalogue, and confid~rs thefe Precepts as
Divine, he then commits it intentionally, and there-
by plunges himfelf into Hell more deeply, whence
he cannot be drawri. out but by acrual Repentance.
It is to be obfcrvecl, that every Man, with Refpect
to his Spirit, is in the fpiritual vVorld in fome So-
ciety there, the wicked Man in iome infernal So-
ciety, and the good Man in fome celef1:ial Society;
he a!f<J appears there fometimes when he is in deep
[alta] Meditation. Moreover, as Sound together
with Speech dilfufes itfelf in the Air in the natural
World, fo Joth Aflccrion together with Thought
clil.fufe itfelf among Soci,eties in the fpiritual \Vorld ;
there is alfo a· Correfpondence between ~hem, for
AffeGion correfponds to Sound, and Thought to
Speech. TmRDLY : 'Fbat the Divine Pro·vidence
wi:h the T
iVicked is a, continual Permf!Jion of Evil, io
the End that they may be continually drawn out of it.
The Reafon why .the Divine Providence with wick~ .
cd Men is continual Permiilion, is, becaufe Nothing
but Evil c:m proceed out of their Life; for .Man,
whether he be in Good, or in Evil, CJ:lnot be ia
both at· once, ne·ither alternately, except he be
lukewarm ; and Evil of Life is not introduced
into the Will, and thrc:.Jr;h it into the Thought,
by the Lord, but it is introduced by IVhn, and this
is called Permit1ion. Now forafnmch as all that a
,·vic.ked Man willcth and thinh.cth is of PcrmiiEon,
it may be allted, how then is the Divine Providence
therein,which i:> faiLl to be in the moll minute Par~
t:culars V:'ith eYer; fll;m, ~:> ',Yell the \ Vic:ccd as
th~
THE DlVlNE PROVlDENCE. 44X
the Good.? · f an(wer, In this Refpecr, that it con·
tinually permitteth for a certain End, and that it
permittetl1 fuch Things ;;~s v_are ,cop.c!_uc-,iv~,,_ to t!1at
End, and no others, .and that it continu-41ly exam-
ines, feparates, and purifies the Evils which i!fue
forth by Permiilion,. and fuch as are not confifl:ent
with the End propofed, it removes and exonerates.
by unknown Ways: Thefe Things are done prin-
cipally in the interior Will of Man, and from it in
his interior Thought : The Divine Provide~ce i~
alfo continual in this, that it provideth that thofe
Things which are to be removed and exonerated,
fhould not be again received by the \Viii,- becaufe
all Things which are received by the \Vill are ap-
propriated to Man ; but the Things which are re-
ceived in the Thought and not in the Will, are fep-
a.rated and fet afide. This is the Lord's continual
Providence with the Vi.7icked, which, as was ob-
ferved, is a continual Permiffion of Evil, to the
End that.they may be perpetually drawn our of it.
OJ thefe Operations of Providence, M~n fcarcely
knoweth any Thing, becaufe he doth not perceive
them ; the primary Reafon why he doth not per-
ceive them, is, becaufe Evils are of the Concupi·
fcences of his Life•s Love, and thofe Evils are not
perceived as Evils, but as Delights, to which no one
attends ; for who attends to the Delights of h~s
Love? Man•s Thought fwims in them, like a Boat
when it is carried along by a glidi~g Stream ; and
it is perceived as a fragrant Atmofphe~·e, which is
drawn in with full Infpiration! He can only per-
ceive Something thereof in his external Thought,
but yet neither doth he attend to them there, un~
· H H h leG.:
44~ A:Nc:Etic \VISndlYI t:<lNctttNnia
lefs he !f"nO\veth welt that tbey aie Evils: . But of
ihis, inore in wh·at now follows. FouRTHLY: 'rhat
Abdu8io-H ·fi-~Delii)et~l'tce from Evil is ~ffelled if tb4
Lord bj"t ·thoufand #tofl.foeret MeaJtJ., Of thefe
fome few only have b·een difcovered tcJ me, and
thefe only M a general Nctute, which are; that the
Delights Of C0nctipi1Cences; of whicli i Man: know.:
eth Nothing; ate emitted in Cdmpan.le~and . in Faf-
cicles (Bundles) into his interior Thoughts; which
are thofe of his Spirit; and from thence into his
exterior Thoughts, in which they make their Ap-'
pearance tinder fome Senfe of Pleafure, Satisfatlion;
or Cupi'dity, and a'te there inter·mixe9 with his nat.o
ural and fenfu'al D'elights ; -
it i~ here that th'O:
!-•
.Jeans of Sepatati&n arrd Purification are', and alfa
the Volays of Abdcfliou and Exoneration :> Thefe
Means· a'Te piincip:ally the Delights of Meditation,.
Thought, -and Refle8:ion for the S·.;:ke of certaia
Ends, which d~e of Ufe, and Ends which are of
Ufe ·are :as- irniriy 'i-rf Numbe:l' as the Pattkulars and
Singu1an ofany one's Bufinefs and Fu!}tlion; and
alfo as miny itf Number, as- there are Delights of
Reflection, to th~ End that h(! may appear -as ~
civil and moral, and <>:lfo as a fpiritual l.V1'an, befides
the t."Tldelightfu-l Things which interpofe ; thefe
Delight~;'fm;afrritteh as they are of his Love in the
txternal Man, are the Means of Separation, Pnrifi.
cation; Excretion, and Abdu'tlion of the Delight:J
cf the Conc-upif.:ences of Evil of the. internal Man.
Take for Example an unjull Judge, \vho has Inter.
eft and Connexions of Friend!hip in View, as the
Ends or Ufes of his Funtlion ; interiorly he is con-
tinually in thofe Ends, but exteriorly -his View is to
aCt .
J"~.~ DIVINE PROVID~N.Cl!. 44~
1-a li~e ~·fkilful ~awycr anfl.;1 jufl: Man ~ he is con-
tinually ir the Delight of meditating, thinking, re~
fteCtin~, rn4 int~!Jd~pg, , how to be,)d.;..vbat is right,
~o turn, :r,d~pt, a~d aq::ommodate it, foth~\~.t may
feem ~oufprm:).ble to the L~ws, and cpnfiften~ wii.h
• .. , • ~ • . • .. J- ~ ' • • . •
Jufi.ic~ ; .·p!=itl~~r ~oth h~: J~now th~t his)~t~rq~l
,Pclight' F.onftfb of Cunning, J"raud, ~~~-~ejt=' . ~l;:tn-:­
J~{linr Thefts, ~nd many .pther Things. ~n.Q. ~hat
this Delight, compounded of fo manv·Pelight:; of
Conc~pii~nces of Evil, n.1les ip. the. {vhple and i9-
~very ~.)articular of his external Thought, ip \vhic4
rxiO: th_e.Qelight~ of the App~anmce that he is ju,~
;md fincer~; the interp~l DeJights ~re .l.et do~n· in.
fo thefe external D~lights, {lnd mixed like Food i~
~he Stomach? and t~ere they are feparated, pu,rified~
rnd dr~wn off; but this is the Cafe oply with the
roo~~ gri~vo4s Delights of the C!JnC!lpi.f~~n~::e& of E~
yil ; for in q, wicked Man there takes Place nc oth-
~r ~P~ratipn, PuritlF~tion2 a.Ifd ~~;n'o~v~l~.~~u~ th~~
pf mo1:e grievop:l ;Evi~:> from the lefs ·grievous,
wher~aP. ~n a gopd Man there takes Pl~c~ a Separa~
~on, f..uri~cation, and Remond, not only of ~norc
grievm,1_~ E,vils, put alfp of the lefs grievous, and.
this is effe[ted by th~. Pe!ights of the ilffeftions of
Goodpefs ap<l Tr~th, and of Jull:if::e and Sincerity1
~to which h~ enters in Proportiot~ a~ he confiders
Evils as Sins, and ther~fore Pwns and .~olds them
in Averfion, ~nd ftiq mote if h~ [lg~ts again.fl:
~hem. 'fhefe are tl)e.·Me~ns, by whic~ th~ Lord
-
purifies ~ll wh? are faved' he alfo purifies the
fame by external 1\~em~s which have refpeCt to
Fame and f!onour, and.fometimes to intere{t ; bu~
neverthelefs into thefc are inferted by the Lord De~
.. " · fights
'444 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
. ' .
lights of the AffeB:ions of' Goodnefs and Truth,·by
·which they are fo direB:ed and adapted as to becomo
·Delights of neighbourly Love. If any one were to
fee the D~lights of the Concupifcences of Evil to.
gether,- irr~ny form, or were to perceive ihem dif-
·tin~Hy wit~ ,;my Senfe,· he' woulq fee arid perceiv~
them in=-fuch Number, that they could riot be de..
) 1:1ed:-; .fo,r, the \Vhole:of :Hell is Nothing but the
·:Form ~f ·~Jr the Conc1,1pifcences of EYil, and no
Cql}cup~fcen.'ce of Evil there; is altogether fimilar
or the.t-;trne\vith any other, neither can there C1~ift
one exaa:Iy.like another;·or the fame with'it, to all
'Eternity·;'·4
r!tl of thefe inni1merable Concupifcences
·M_
an f.:w;:ely knoweth any Thing, much lefs how
tb~y <)re'cgnnetl:e~ ; a11d yct_it is permitted -of the
Lord, by .r~~ Divine Providence continually; tha~
l hey ihould~ come 'forth, to the End that they may
be drawn'oft~: which is done in all Order and Se;
ries ; .for·a -:--vicked Man is Hell in its leafl: Form,
2s a good Man is Heaven in its leaf!: Fon;n.· That
Abdu0:ion~- or D eliverance from Evils is 'e'ffeB:ed
of the Lord by a thoufahd mofl: fecr,et Means?
cannot better be feen, and tpereby concluded, than
from the fecret Operations of the Soui in t~e Body;
thofe with which Man is acquainted are 'the follow- '
ing ; with RefpeCl: to the Food he is to eat; he
fee~ it or looks at it, fmells it, hath an Appetite fo~
it, tafl:es it, chews it with his T eeth, turns it about
with his Tongue, [wallows it · thus do·wn into the
Sromach, .-.nd fo into the Belly; but the fecret
Operations of the Soul with which Man: is unac-
quainted, becaufe he doth iwt perceive tb.em, are
the fpll?\Ying; · the Stom<Jch turns about the Foocl
it
0 i ...nE DIVINE PRovrnENe:E:' -·· 445
it ~as rec~iv~d, biMc:ms of its folvent ~,~quor· opens
and feparates)ts Parts, tnat is;-digefi:s it, znd pre-
fents ftic1i ;as is properly prepared to the·:Mouths of
th.; Veffels which open into-the'Inte!Er!es, which
drink it ·up ; ·it ·alfo difhibutes and' fends fome
Parts into ~he Blood, i~m~ · into the ' lymphatic
Ve{lels, fome into the lac:l:e:.ll Vefids oftlrc Mefcnte-
ry, ancf:·c6nveys fome down the Inteftines ·; after-
wards the· <~hyle, ..vhich is dr~wn through the Vef-
fels of U1e-·Mefentary into its _ l.::.ccepta~ie, is convey-
ed -
through the th?racic DuEl: into the Vena Cava,
ancl. fo I i!ito tfl'e Heart, and from the Heart iiu-o the
L~ngs,' a'n"
d!ftom thence 'through -the left Ventricle
of the l-!eart into the .A:orta, and from the ·Aorta by
it~ d~ffer.errt ·-Ramifications..in'to the -Vifcera·of the
whole ~Body, ·:md alio into·the Kidneys; i11 each of
which there .is a s:epar~Hion and Purificatio'n of the
Blood,:and a Renioval of heterogeneo-us Parts ; not
to ·~enJion how the Hearf· Jifl:ributes its Blood to
the 'Brain after ·it has been •purified in the Lungs~
which is done by ti-;e Artcries\vhich are called Ca-
rotids; and ho\v the Brain returns rhe Blood vivified
into the ab~ve-memion;d Vena Cava, into which
the thoracic Duet empties the Chyle, and fo again to
the Heart. Thefe, befides innumerable others, are
the· fecret ~Operations of the Soul in tht: Body ;·
Man perceives Nothing of.thcfe·
,·a-
nd he who is not
fkilled in Anatomy kno~~·s N_
othing of them ; and-
yet fi_
milar -Things arc done in the Interiors of the,
Mind of l\'lan,· for Nothing can· be done in the
Body, except from the Mind, inalinuch as the Mind
of Man is his Spirit, and hi's Spirit is equally a Nian,
with this only Difference, that the Things which arc
done
+t6 ANQ~LlC '\V~~DO}:•t CONC.t"RNll..9
done .in -the· Body, are done ;natu~al~y1 ~nd th~
Things_\Vhis=h are done jn t.i"l;~ ~Ji,nd, ~r.~ARne fpir~
itually, tl~ers i_
s a perfe~r S~mihtude, flenc~- it: is ev::
!dent, that the Divine. P,rpvjdenc~ qperat!?~ a thqp~
fand hiddef! \Yays jn eve,ry l\1qn, <J.n4 tl:J:at;jts Enc\
is contin~1a!ly to purify hit~, .bepy.fe· it's ¥-!'d i.s tq
Ln e him, ~~q that No~hing more is in~~r:::;bent up-
on Mar:t, b~a to remov~_ ~yiis in ![he ext,~np~_}l_an, ;,-
th~ rdt the L.ord providc>th, ifhe be impl5J~5=d.:· <'
_
297:_, III. 'That the Wic§cd_ cannot be,"CJ{i;~~·cdy /~:d
out ofEv_ili by tbc Lon/, (ll1dled into Gxtf.f, ..l~.f~ng p~
they-tbink f e(fderiwd .Jntr:lligence ~J ;lljf.,: ~./J!iit?r..·Qi;
vine Pro·pidt'!J(C Notbing.__ lf ;appea~~- ~:;)fj ~A~I}c::~5?0d
lead himfelf 9~t of Evi-~s, if he woulJ qut tbipk that
this or tpat .is contrary..~o .th~ Good ?f;~h:~t.f.9ffilJ.1~
nity,_.c_qnttary to Utili~y, and contr=?-ry,tq)e_e _Law~
of hi_s, f-91l.ntry and .the ,r:,aw oL ~aticins !. thjs "+
wicked M<}n ~can do as weil ,as a good tvian, wevi~
ed he be fuch by Birth, q~ from the E~erclfe ·t?f .h-4
Faculties, as to be able to .think wi~hip p~mfelf.· :ma~
lyrically and r~tionally in a ' clifiina. Manner_; but
Hill he is not able to draw h~mfelf out of ~~vil; tPl1
Reafon i~, b~caufe the Faculty ~f unde:r.fi;!'?-;diJ?:g an~
perceiving 1 hings even _abfhac:tly is giv~n of.th~
Lord to every one, as well)he ·wicked as the G~od!
~s hath been ilie~n in many Place? apove; b)l;t frill
Man by Means of this Faculty cannot d.J:a\Y himklf
out of Evi1 ; for Evil is of the Will, and _t~e Un::
derfl:anding doth not flow into the Wi~l except witf+
Light only~ and illuminates and teaches, and i-f the,
Heat of the \Viii, that_is, the Life's Love of Man~.
is fervid from the Concupifccnce of Evil, it is then
frigid or cold as to the A~eCtion qf Good, where'!
· fore
. TH1~ ~Divnn: PRovrbENt :E; 447
f~re it doth not receive Light,· but either rejeCts o:
e:xringuifhes it, .or by iome invented fllfe Principle
converts it into Evil ; the Cafe is herein as with
the Lighrof Winter, which is equally as clear as
the Light of Summet; and which Hmving into cold
'rreei produces a fimilar Effect with fpiritual Light
'\vhen the Wi!l is cold : But thcfe Things will be
feei'l. rhore fully-in the following Order. r. T bt
felf-derircd Intelligence, when the Will is in E\·ii,
feeth Nothing but what is falfc, and that it ueithcr
:will nor can fee any Thing elfe. z. That if felf.
derived Intelligence then f.eeth Truth, it turns itfelf
away, or faltlfies it. 3; That the Divine Provi.
rlence continually caufeth Man to fee Truth, and
alfo giveth him the AffeCtion of perceiving it, ancl
moreover of receiving ir. 4· That thereby Man
is dra~va out of Evil, not of l}imfelf, but of the
'·
Lord. ·
298. But thefe f'ropofitions !hall be explained in
~ their proper Order to the rational Man., wherher
he be •vicked or good, therefoie whether he be in
the Light of Winter; or in the Light of Summer,
for Colom~ appear alike in both. FIR ST : 'That
felfderh.fed lrttelligcnce, when the H'i!! is in Evi!,fcctb
Nctbing ·but v.'hat is fa!ft, and that it neitbcr 'Willner
c:an fee any 'Thing e!fe : This hath often been exper-
imentally fhewn in the fpiritual \Vorld : Every
1\!:m, wher. he becomes a Spirit, which he does after
Death, (for he then puts off his material Body, and
puts on a fpirirual Body,) is alternately let into the
two States of his Life, the external and the .inter.
nal ; when he is i1:1. the external State, he fpeak~
and alfo ach rationally ~nd wifely, jutl like a l"<~ol
tional
tiona) and· wife M3n in the vVorld,·and· Iliorcov-er
can teach others many Things whi-ch relate to mo•
ral and civil Life ; and if he had been a Preacher~
he can alfo teach Things relating to fpiritual Life ;
but when he is let out of this into his internal State,
and the External is laid afleep, and the Inte:nal i:;
a•vakcned, then, if he is wicked, the Scene is cl)an-
gcd; idtead of rational, he becomes fenfual, and
iniread of v;ife, infane ; for he thinks then from the
Evil of his Will and its Delight, therefore from
felf-d.;rived Im~lligence, and feeth Nothing but
what is Falfe, and doeth Nothing but Evil, thinking
that Malice is \Vifdom, and that Cunning is Pru-
dence, and from felf.derived Intelligence he fancie3
himfelf a God, and imbibes with all his Soul the
mofl:. \vicked Arts : Such InfanityI have often feen ;
and have alfo feen Spirits let into thefe alternate
States two or three Times in an Hour, and then it
was given them to fee their Infanities, and alfo to
acknowlecl.;e them, but yet they would not remain
in their rational and moral State, but turned them.
felves of their own Accord to their internal, fenfual,
;mJ infane State, for this they loved more than the
other, becaufe therein confifted the Delight of their
I.ife's Love. From this Experience alone it may
appear, what the Nature of [elf-derived Intelligenc-e
is, when it tbir..ks and aCts from the Evil of its \Nill.
The Cafe is different with the Good, when they are
let into an internal State from an external, they be-
come ftiH more wife and moral than before. ··SEc-
ONDLY : :rz;
,,t if fc!J-derir,.·ed Intelligence then fecr
'Truth, it eitber turns itfe!faway, orJa!fifies it. Man
hath a voluntary.Proprium ~nd an intellech:al Pro·
pnum,.
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 449
t'rium, his voluntary Proprium is Evil, and his intel-.
leCtual Proprium is the Falfe Principle derived from
that Evil ; the latter is meant by the \Vill of Man,
and the former by the \Viii of the Flefh, John i. I 3·
The voluntary Proprium in its EJTence is Self-Love,
and the intelleCtual Proprium is Pride proceeding
from that Love ; thefe two arc like two connubial
Partners, and their Marriage is called the Marriage
of Evil and the Falfe ; every evil Spirit is let into
this Marriage, before he is admitted into Hell, and
when he is fo, he doth not know what Good is, for
he calieth his own Evil Good, inafmuch as he feel-
eth it as his Delight; and moreover then he turn-
eth himfelf away from Truth, neither will he fee it,
becaufe the falfe Principle agreeing with his Evil is
feen by him, as beautiful ObjeCts arc by the Eye,
and is heard by him as harmonious Sounds are by
the Ear. TI-IIRDL Y : That the Divine Providenu
continually cat/eth Man tofee Truth, and a!fo givctb
him the .A_lF
eflion of perceiving and receiving it. The
Reafon of this is, becaufc the Divine Providence
aB:s from within, and flows thence into the Exteriors,
or it aCts from the fpiritual Man upon the Things
which are in the natural Man, and by the Light of
Hea\'en illuminate5 his Underflanding, and by the
Heat of Heaven vivifies his \\-Till ; the Light of
Heaven in its Elfence is Divine \Vifdorn, and the
Heat of Heaven in its Elfence is Divine Lon -,
and from Divine \\'ifdom Nothing elfe can flow but
Truth, and from Divine Love Nothing elfe can flow
but Good, and from thi~ the Lord giveth in the
Underflanding the AffeC1ion of feeing T ruth, and
alfo of pcrcei\'ing anll receiving it: 'lhus Man is
I r i P.1adc
450 ANGELIC 'VISDOM CONCERNINd
mat!e a Man, not only as to his external Face, bllt
alfo as to his internal. Who doth not wifh td
fecm a rational anti fpiriti.Jal Man ; and who doth
not know that he wifheth to feem fo, in Order that
he may be thoughg by orhers to be a true Man? If
thtrefore he is only rational and fpiritual in his ex-
ternal Form, and not at the fame Time in his inter-
nal, can he be faid to be otherwife than like a Player
upon the Stage, or like an Ape whofe Face nearly
refcmbles the human ? May he not know from
thence that he alone is a Man, who interiorly is
fuch, as he defireth to be thought by others ; he
who acknowledges one, acknowledges the other.
~elf-derived Intelligence can onJy induce the human
Form in Ettetnals, btlt the Divine Providence in·
duces th3t Form in Internals, and through Internals
in Ei~ternaic) and when this is induced, Man does
.not barely appear to be Man, but is Man. FouRTW
L Y : 'That Afan is thereby drawn out ofEvils, not of
binfe!f, bitt of the Lord. The Reafon why, when
the Divine Providence gives to fee Truth, and at
the fame Time the AffeCtion thereof, Man can be
drawn out of Evil, is, becaufe Truth fhews and die~
rates, and when the Will does it, it joins itfelf there-
'.vith, and in itfelf converts Truth ·into Good, for
Truth in this Cafe ·becomes tf1e Truth of Man'~
l.oYe, and that which is of. the Love, the fame is
c:;ood : All Reformation is effet:l:ed by Truth, and
.r.ot without it, for without Truth the 'Will is con-
tinua!ly in its Evil, and if it confults the Under~
fl:anding, it is not in{hut:l:ed, but Evil is confirmed
by Falfes. As to \\hat relates to Intelligence, it
appears as well in a.good Man as in a wicked 1\lan
to
TuE D1vrNE PRoVIDtNcE. 45 ~
tp be his ;wt,and moreover a good Man is obliged,
as well as a wicked l\1an, to aCt: from Intelligence
feemingly proper to himfelf; yet he who believe:;
jn·the Divine Providence, is withdrawn from Evil,
put he who doth not believe, is not withdrawn ;
and he believes in it, who acknowledgeth Evil to
be Sin, an~ defireth to he delivered from it ; and
he doth not believe it, who doth not acknowledge
and defire this : The Difference between-thefe twq
kinds of Intelligence is like the Difference between
~hat which is thought to exifl: in itfelf, and that
which is thought not to exifl: in itfelf, but fl:ill a:
in itfelf; and it is alfo like the Difference between
;m External \vithout a correfpondent In~ernal, and
~n External with a correfponden~ Internal ; confe-:
quently lik,e the Ditference between the '\_Vords and
pefl:ures of Mimics and Players, who perfonate
Kings, Princes, and Generals, and the Kings, Prin~.
ces, and Generals themfelves ; the latter are interi-
orly as well as exteriorly fuch, the former only ex-:
teriorly, which Exterior when it is put ofl~ they arc
called Comedians, ACtors, and Players.
299· IV. 'That· the Lord gov~rns Hell by OppqfitCJ,
a11d that the Wicked, •who are in the World, he gov-.
erns in Hell as to Interiors, but not as to Exteriors.
He who doth not know the Nature of Heaven and
of Hell, cannot at all know the Nature of Man's
~find, the Mind of Man being his Spirit which lives.
after Death ; the Reafon is, becaufe the Mind or
Spirit of Man, in all the Particulars of its Forn~, is
fimilar to that of Heaven or Hell ; there is no Dif4
ference, except that one is great, and th~ other i~.
{mall, or that one is an Image, and the other it~
Type;
452 AXGELIC \VISDOl\1 CONCERNING
Type ; wherefore Man, as to his Mind or Spirit, is
either a Heaven or a Hell in its leafl: Form, he is a
Heaven who is led of the Lord, and he is a Hell
who is led of his own Proprium. Now forafmuch
as it hath been given me to know the Nature both
of HeaYen and Hell, and it is of Import:mce to
know what the Nature of Man is with Refpect to
his Mind or Spirit, I will briefly give a Defcription
of both.
300. .All who are in Beaven, are Nothing but
Affections of Good and thence Thoughts of Truth ; '
and all who are in Hell, are Nothing but Concupi-
.fcences of Evil and thence Imaginations of what is
Falfe ; ::md thefe are fo arranged on both Sides, that
the Concupifcences of Evil and the Imaginations of
what is Falfc in Hell, are direaly oppofite to the
Al-feCl:ions of Gocd and the Thoughts'of Truth in
Heaven, wt.erefore Hell is under Heaven, and dia-
metrically oppofite to it, as much fo as two Men
who lie oppofite to each other, or fiand oppofite as
J\.ntipodes, confequently inverted, with the Soles of
their Feet placed againfl each other, and flanding
each upon the Heels of the other ; fometimes alfo
Hell :1ppears in fuch a Situation, or thus turned,
\i·ith Refpeft to IIeaYen : The Reafon is, becaufe
they who arc in Hell make the Concupifcences of
J:,!I their lleaJ, and the .t\ffeaions of Good their
l'eet, but they ·,vho are in Heaven, make the .Affec-
tions of Good their HcaJ, .md tl1e Concupifccnces
of Evil the Soles of their Feet; bc1~ce their mutual
Oppoflrion. It i~ faiJ that in Hea\'Cil there art!
.AfFedious of GooJ and thence Thoughts of Truth,
~;~J that in Hell th?re arc Concuri!ccnces of b·il
anq
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 453
and thence Imaginations of the Falfe, and'it is meant
that there are Spirits and Angels who are fuch, for
every one is his own 1~ffetl:ion or his own Concu.
pifcence, the Angel of Heaven is hiS own Affec-
(ion, and the Spirit of Hell is his own Concupi-
fcence.
301. The Reafon why the Angel:; of Heaven arc
AfFetl:ions of Good and thence Thoughts of Truth,
is, becaufe they are Recipients of Divine Love and
Divine Wifdom from the Lord, and all Affetl:ions
of Good are from Divine Love, and all Thoughts
of Truth are from Divine \Vifdom : But the Rea-
fan why the Spirits of Hell are Concupifcences of
Evil and thence Imaginations of the Falfe, is, be-
caufe they arc in the Love of Self and in felf-derived
Intelligence, and all Concupifcences ofEvil are from
the Love of Self, and Imaginations of the Falfe are
from felf-derived Intelligence.
302. The Ordination or Arrangement of Affec,.
-tions in Heaven, and of Concupifcences in Hell, is
wonderful, and known only to the Lord ; they are
on both Sides difringuifhed into Genera and Spe-
cies, and fo conjoined or connetl:ed as to atl: as one;
and forafmuch as they are difringui!hed into Genera
and Species, they are t!ifringuifhed into greater or
leffer Societies ; and forafmuch as they are conjoin-
ed that they may aB: as one, they are conjoined like
all the Things that arc in a l\Ian ; hence Heaven in
its Form is like a beautiful Man, whofe Soul is the
Divine Love and the Divine Wifdom, therefore the
Lord ; and Hell in its Form is like a Monfrer,
whofe Soul is Self-Love and felf-derived Intelli-
gence, therefore the De\'il ; for ~here is not any
particuhr
f54 ANGELIC WrsDOM CONCERNING
.. . . ~
particular De,,iJ, who is fole Lord there, but Self-:
Love is fo called.
' 303. But that the Nature of Heaven and Hel\
may be frill better unde_rfrood, infread of the Affec::
~ions of Good take the Delights of Go~d, and in-:
!lead of the Concupifcences of Evil take the Dew
lights of Evil, for there doth ~ot ~::cift any AffeB:iod
or Concupifcence without its Delights, inafmuch as
Delight~ confritute the Life of every one ; . thefe
Delights are qiflingui~ed and conneB:ed, as was
[aid above of the AffeB:ions of Good an~ the Conw
cupi!'cences of Evil : The :pelight of his AffeB:ion
fills and encompaifes every Angel of Heaven ; and
moreover their common Delight fills and encom-
paffes eve~y Society of Heaven; and the Delight of
all together, o~ that which is moft general, fills and
encompaifcs the univerfal Heaven : In like Manner;
the Delight of his Co11:cupifceuce 'fill5 and encom-:
paifes every Spirit of Hell ; and its common Dew
light every Society of Hell ; and the Delight of all,
or that which is general, the Whole of Hell. lnaf~
much as the AffeCI:icn5 of Heaven, f111d the Concu:
pifcences of Hell~ are, as was obferved above, dia-:
metrically oppofite to each o~her, it is evident that
the Delight of Heaven is to undelightful or difa-
greeable in Hell, that they cannot fupport it, and
or!. the other Hand, that the Delight of ~ell is fo
undelightful or difagreeable in Heaven, that neither
can they fupport it ; hence proceeds their mutual
Antipathy, Averfion, and Separation. .
}04· Thefe Delights, inafmuch as they confritute_
the Life of each Individual in particular, and of the.
~~mmn:nity in general, are lDt felt by thofc \vhq
arc
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 45$
~re in them, but their Oppofites are felt when they
approach, efpecially when they are turned into
Smells, for every Delight correfponds to fame Smell,
and in the fpiritual World may be turned into it ;
and then the Delight of Heaven in general is felt
like the Smell of a Garden, with fome Variety ac.:.
c'ording to the F.ragrancies arifing therein from
Flowers and Fruits ; and the Delight of Hell iri
general is felt like fiagnant ·water, into which have
been cafi divers Kinds of Filth, with fame Variety
according to the Stench of Things putrid and offen-
five therein. Tn what Manner the Delight of each
tJarticular Affection of Good in Heaven~ and of each
particular Concupifcence of Evil in Hell, is felt~
hath been g~ven to know, but it \vould be prolix
to explain it here.
305. I have heard many New-Comers from the
\Vorld complain, th~t they did.not kno\•, that their
Lot ~ould be according to the AffeCtions of their •
Love ; faying, that in the \Y"orld they did not think
of them, much lefs of the Delights thereof, becaufe
they loved that which was delightful to them; and.
that they only thought, that the Lot of every one
would be according to his Thought grounded in In-
telligence, efpeciaily according to Thoughts ground-
ed in Piety, and likewife in Faith: But it. was given
them for Anfwer, that they might have known, if
they would, that a Life of Evil is difagreeable to
Heaven and difpleafing to God, and that it is plea~
fing to Hell and delightful to the Devil ; and on
the other Hand, that Good of Life is grateful to
Heaven and pleafing to God, and unpleafar.t t<>
Bell anti difagreeable to the Devil, and iherefore
that
-156 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNINq
that E\'il in itfelf is offc:nfive, and Good is fragrant;
And fince they might have known this if they
would, why did not they !hun Evils as infernal and
diabolical, and why did they favour Evils merely
becaufe they were delightful ? And fince they now
know that the Delights of Evil have an offenfive
Smell, they might alfo know that fuch in whom
they abound cannot enter into Heaven. After this
Anfwer, they betook themfelves to thofe who were-
in fimilar Delights, for there, and no where elfe,
could they. breathe.
3o6. From the Idea which has now been given
of Heaven and Hell, it may appear what the Nature
of the Mind of Man is, (for, as hath been faid, the
Mind or Spirit of Man is a Heaven or a Hell in its
leafr Form,) namely, that his Interiors are mere
Affeftions and Thoughts derived therefrom, divided
into Genera and Species, like greater and Ieifer Soci-
eties, and fo connefted as to ad: as one ; and that
the Lord rules thofe Affeftions and Thoughts, in
like Manner as he rules Heaven or Hell. That
Man is either a Heaven or a Hell in its leafi: Form,
may be feen in the Work concerning HEAVEN
AND HELL, publifhed in London, Anno I 7sS,
n. 51 to 87.
307. Now to the Point in ~efl:ion, that the
Lord governs Hell by Oppofites, and that the Wick-
ed, who are in the \Vorld, are governeJ by Him in
Hell, as to Interiors, but' not as to Exteriors. As to
what relates, F1RST, To the Lord's go'Verning Hell
by Opprjites; it is fhewn above, n. 288, z8g, that
the Angels of Heaven are not in Love and Virifdom,
or in the .:'\ifeEtion of Good and thence in the
Thought
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 457
Thought of Truth from themfelves, but from the
Lord ; and that Good and Truth flow from HeaY~
en into Hell; and that thct'efore Good is turned into
Evil, and Truth into what is Falfe, by Reafon that
the Interiors of their Minds are turned in~ contrary
Direttion: Now fince all Things in Hell are oppo~
fite to all Things in Heaven, it follows, that the
Lord governs Hell by Oppofites. SEcoNDLY: T'bat
the Wicked, wbo are jn tbe World, are governt'd in
lief/ by tbe Lard j the Reafori is, becaufe Man with
RefpeCl: to his Spirit is in ,the fpirirual \:Vorld, and
there in forne Society, in an infernal Society if he is
wicked, and in a cclefiial Society if good ; for the,
1\'lind ofMan, whichin itfelfis fpiritual, cannot be any
where but among Spirits, into \Yhofe Society it comes
alfo after Death ; that this is the Cafe, hath alfo been
faid and ihewn above. But Man is not there Uke one
of the Spirits who is infcribed into the Society, for
Man ts contir.ually in a State of Reformation, where~­
fore according to his Life and the Changes thereof, he
is tranflateJ ty- the Lord from one Society of Hell
to another, if he is wicked ; but if he fuffers him~
felf to be reformed, he is led out of Hell and i_ntro~
duced "into Heaven, and there alfo he is tranflated
from one Society to another, and this until the
'fime of his Death, after which he is no longer
carried from one Society to another, becaufe he is
then no longer in any State of Reformation, but
remains in that in which he is according to his
I.ife ; wherefore when a Man dies, he is infcribed
in his own Place. THIRDLY : Tbat the Lord thus
go·verm the Wicked in the TForld as to their Intcriars,
bJtl d(fFercnt~·: cu to tbeir E:-:terion: The Lord gov.
K K k erns
458. ANGELIC \VISDO:M CONCk:RNING
erns the Interiors of the 1\lind of Man, in the Man•
ner jufl: defcrihed, but its Exteriors he governs in the
\Vorld. of Spirits, which is in the MicHl between
Heaven and Hell ;· the Reafon is, becaufe Man for
the mofl: Part is different in Extei'nals froni what he
is in Internals ; for in Externals he can fimulate an
Angel of Light, and yet in Internals be a Spirit of
Darknefs, wherefore his External is governed one
\Vay, and his Internal another ; his l,i:xternal is
governed in the World of Spirits, but his Internal
in Heaven or in Hel11 fo leng as he is.in the \Vorld; '
wherefore alfo, when he dies, he comes firfl: into
the \Vorld of Spirits, and there into his External;
which External is there put off, and this being put
off, he is transferred to his Place in which he is
infcribed. What the v\Torld of Spirits is, may be
feen in the Work concerning HEAVEN AND HELL, ·
publifhed in London,. Anno 1758, n. 421 to 535·
Tlzat the ·l)ivine Providence neitfzer ap.;o
propriates Evil nor Good to any one;
but tlzatfe!f-derrived Prudence appro--
priates both.
308. IT is belieYed almofl: by every one, that
Man thinllcth and willeth from himfelf,
and thence fpeaketh and aeteth from himfelf; whO'
can think otherwife when he thinks from himfelf,
fince
THE DIVIN~ PROVIDENC:E. 459
(lnce the Appearance that it is fo, is fo llrong, tha~
jt differs Nothing fro\1). the Reality, vi~. thin~ing,
~ill_ing, fpeaking, and aBing froJll one's Self, which
}'C~ ~s not po~ble ? ~n )'HE ANGELIC WisDoM
CONCERNING THE DtVINE WISDOM, it is alfo de~
monfr~ated, that th·e~e is one ·~nly Life, and that
_
Men are ReciP._ients _of Life ; alfo that the \Vill of
Man is the Rec~ptacle of Love, and the Under-
ilandi~g of Man is the Receptade of Wifdom,
whi.ch two co~O:itute that one only Life. It is alfo
4emonll:rate4, that it is ordered by C,reation, and
~hence by tl}e Divine P.royidence continually, that
~hat Life :fl:to~ld appear in Man~ in fuch a Similitude
a.s,if it were his OVfn, .confequently prop~r ~o):im~
felf, bl!t that thi~ is a_n 4-ppearance, to th~ End that
Man may q~ capable.of be~ng a, ,Receptacle... M,ore7
pver ~tis dernonftrated above~ .n. 28~ to 29,4, .that
no 1\jan thin~s from himfelf, but from others, and
that neither.do thofe others think fro~ .th~mfelves,
b,ut alJ from the Lord, therefore that the 'Wicked dq
fo as well as the Good ; Iikewife that this is known
in the Chr.i!lian \Vorld, efpeci3llyamong thofe who
!lOt only fay, bu~ alfo believe that all· Goodnefs an~
Truth are from the Lord, alfo all \Vifdom, and of
Courfe all Faith and Che1rity ; and m?reover thar:
-FVery Thing Evil and Falfe is from the D~vil or
from Hell. From all thefe Premifes no other Con-
~Iufion can be deduc.ed, than that whatever a Ma11
thinketh ar.d \villeth comes by Influx, and {oraf~
!Ouch as all Speech flow~ from Thought, as an
?ffea from its C:mfe, and all Action in like Manner
from the \Vill, therefore that whate\·er Man fpeak-
~.~h a~d aBetb, c8mcth likewife by Influx, althoug~
derivatively ·
46·o ANGELIC \VISDOl\1 CONCE'RNING
ucrivatirely or mediately' : That ' whatever ~ Man.
fees, hears, fmells, taftes, and feels, comes by' Influi,
cannot be denied ; why_not ~hen . what he thi·n·h
<md wills? Can there be any Difference, than that
fuch Things as are in the natural 'Vorld ·flow into
or imprefs the Organs of the external Senfes or of
the Body, an:d that fuch Things as are in the'fpiiii:_
.
ual ·world flow into or imprefs the organic Su~.
!l:anc~s of the internal Senfes·or of the Mind ? there-
fo.re, that as the 'orgal_ls of tire ex~ernal Senfes, ·o.r
of the Body, are Receptacles of nat~ral ObjeCl:s, ~6
the <?rga1~ic Sub(tal!ces of the internal Sen'fes, or C?f
the Mind, are Receptacles of fp~r!tual Objeas:
Since this is the State of Man, what then ·is hi~
Propi·i~~ ? For h_i_s Proprium ~oes not ·conrtft i~
his being fuch or fuch a Receptacle, becaufe thi~
l'r~priun~ rs' n~thirig elfe but his ~ality w.itl~ Re-
fpea to Reception, and is-not the Pr'oprium of Life;
for by Proprium n'o on;: m~ans.· any 1.'hing elfe bu~
what lives from itfelf,·and therebv 'thinks and wills
•. • • . • ~ • J "
from itfelf; but that fuch a Proprium doth not exil1.
~n Man, yea, that neither can it. cxifl: in any one~
follows as a Confequence from what hath been faid
above: . . . . .
309. _
But I '\vill relate what I haYe heard from
f0me in the fi1iritual World ; they \vere of thofe
who believed felf-deri\'ed Pr~dence to be every
Thi~0' and 'the Divine P;ovidence Nothing: I f~id
that ' Ma'n' hath ~1ot a;::y Proprium, (or any Thing
which ca~ fhietly be faid to be proper to himfdf)
unlefs you ~hoofe to make his Proprium confift i~
his beii1g fuch and fuch a Subject, or fuch and fuel\
~m Org~i1, ·or fuch and fuch 01 Form, but this is no~.
· the
' ..
THE DIVINE PROVlDENC!. 46!
the Proprium which is m~ant, for it is only his
~ality ~ but that no Man hath any Proprium, in
the Senfe in which Proprium is commonly under-
ftood: They who afcribed all Things to felf-derived
Prudence, who may be called Proprietaries, being
the very Image of what effentially confiitutes that
CharaCter, grew fo enraged, that aFlame appeared
iffuing from their N oflrils; faying, You utter Para-
do?'es and Infanities ; would not Man in this Cafe
be an 'empty Nothing? He would either be a Being
merely ideal and fantaflical, or he \vould be an
Image ~r a Statue. To this I could only anfwer,
that ~t was a Parad,ox and l\tladnefs to believe, that
Man is Life from hiinfelf, and that Wifdom and
Prudence do not flow from God, but that they are
in Man, ·confequcntly alfo the Good which is of
Ch;:rit)·,':and the True which is or Faith ; for any
one to attribute thefe to himfelf, is called Infanity
by every wife Man, and therefore is alfo a Paradox ;
an.d moreover Perfon~ fo doing, are like thofe \Vho
d\Yell in the Haufe and Efl:ate of another, and when
they ,are in Po1fe4U~n thereof, perfuade them-
felves that they are their own ; or like Agents and
Stewards, who think all their Mafl:er's Property
~heir own ; and like the Servants, to whom the
Lord gave the Talents to trade with, in Cafe they
had rendered no Account of them, but kept them
~s their own, and fo aaed as Thieves ; of fuch it
may very jufl:ly be faid, tha~ they are infane, yea
that· they are empty Nothings, alfo that they are
Idealifl:s, becaufe they h;,1ve no Good, which is the
very Effence of Life, in themfelves from the Lord,
~onfequently neither have they any Truth ; where-
for~
ANGE::IC \VISDOM- CONCERNING
~ ../ ' I .. •
fore the fame are alfo called the Dead, and,likewife
~othing, an? Emptinefs, Ifa}al1 xl. 17, 23 j and i~
_other Places, Makers of Imag~s~ ~dols, <i;nd St~tues:
B~t of ·tl~is JJ?.Ore ,below~ in; the following 9rder~
1. What felf-derived Prudence is, and \vhat that
Prudence \~hi~h is·not felf.derived. 2. Th~t.~M~ti
. . . , . ,; . . . .
from felf-derived Prudence perfuade~ himfelf ancl
.confirms qimfdf in th~ I~ea, that every 'Good anq
Truth is from himfelf, and.in himfelf, and. in like
M~nner every evi~ ~nd fal(e r.rincipl.e. · ·3~ ·.Tha~
every Thing, of. which a Man is perfuaded, and in
which he confirms himfelf, :r,em.ains as his Ploprium;
~f!<f~ proper to him. 4· Th<~t if Man would belie~e
-~\I.!)at ~s the·l'rut9, that every rTh~ng good and true
is from the Lore}, and every Thing evil and falfe
from .Hell, he would p.eith~r appropriate, t~ himfelf
9-ood and make_it meritorious, [that is~ i_mput~ the
Merit of it tR _hjmfelf,] 11?T would he appropriate
to himfelf Evil, ~nd m~ke him~~lf g~ilty .of it, anq '
.~~c,ountable for it.
: 31o. I. What felf-derivcd _Prudcnc~ is, and wha~
tbat Prudence which is notJelf-derived. !hey are in
felf-derive? ~ru~ence, who confirm .Appe~ra~ces i~
themfelves, a:1d make them Truths, efpeci;1lly ,thi~
Appearance, th<J:t felf-de;ri_
yed !?rudence !s-.All, ~nd
the Di"iqe frovidence Nothing, b!Jt fome genera!
~ind of Thing_, which neverthelefs ~ann~! .e~i!t
~itfwut Pattic.ulars of which it rpuft confift, ~s:~va~
~1cw~ ~bove : They are al(o in Fallacies, for every
Appearance cpy.fir~ned as a Truth becomes a ·Fal.law
cy ; and in Proportion as they confirm themfelves
from Fallacies, in the fame Proportion they become
Naturalifl:s, and in the fame Proportion they believe
· ' Noth!ng
THE DIVINE PROVIDENC~. 46.3
Nothing but what they can at the fame Time per-
<:eive.\vith fome of the bodily Senfes, efpecially th ~>
Sight, becaufe this principally aCts as one with
Thought ; filch Perfons at lafl: beeome fenfual ; and
if they confirm themfeh'cs , in Favour of Nature
againfl: God, they clofe the Interiors of their Mind;-
and interpofe a Veil, · as it were, and afterwards
think what is under the Veil; arid not any Thing.
that is above it : Thefe Senfualifts were called by
the Ancienrs, Serpents of the Tree of Knowledge •·
Of thefe it is faid in the· fpiritual \Vorld; that as
they confirm themfelves, they clofe the Interiors of
their Minds, at length even unto the Nofe, for the.
Nofe fignifies Perception of Truth, and in this InA
fiance as clofed it fignifies no Perception at all.
Their Ch'araB:er fl1all now be defcribed ; .they are
more cunning and crafty than others, and are alfo
ingenious Reafoners, and Cunning and Craftinefs
they call Intelligence and \Vifdom, t1eithet do they-
know any"other ~ Thofe who are not of this De-
fcription, they confider as fimple and fl:upid, efFci-
aHy the W orfhippers.·of God, and Confeifors of the
Divine·Providence: With Refpea to the interior
Principles of their Minds, of '\vhich they themfelves
know very little, they are like thofe who are Machi.-
avelifls, who make no Account of Murders, Adulte·
ries, Thefts, and falfe .Tefl:imony, confidered in
themfelves, and if they reafon againfr them, it is
only from Motives of Prudence, that they may not
appear to be what they really are. 9f the Life of
Man in this World, they only think that it is like
the Life of a Beafl: ; and of the Life of Man after
Death, that it is like a vital Vapour, which riling
from
464 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNiN3
from the Corpfe or Grave, relapfes again, and fo
dies : From this Madnefs came the Idea that Spirits
and Angels are Air; and among thofe who are en-
joined to believe in Life everla!ting, that the Souls
of Men are the fame, and therefore that they neither
fee; hear, nor fpeak~ confequently that they are
blind, deaf, and dumb, and that they only think in
their Particle of Air; for they fay, how can the
Soul be any Thing elfe? Did not the·external Sen~
fes die with the Body; and how can they receive
them again before the Soul is reunited to the Body?
And becaufe they could h<\,ve no other than a fen-
fual and not a fpiritual Idea of the State of the Soul
after Death, they elbblifl1ed this, otherwife the
Belief oflan everlall:ing Life would have peri!hed.
More efpecially they confirm in themfelves Self.
Love, calling it the Fire of Life, and an Incitement
to various Ufes in Society ; and forafmuch as they
are of this Defcription, they are the Idols of them-N
felves, and their Thoughts, being Fallacies from
Fallacies, are Images of what is Falfe : And fora[..
much as they favour the Delights of Concupifcences;
they are Satans.and Devils ; they are called Satans,
who confirm in themfelves the Concupifcences of
Evil, and they are called Devils who live according:
to them. It hath alfo been given to know the Na•
ture of the moft cunning Sort of fenfual Men ; they
have a deep Hell behind, .and wifh to be invifible,
wherefore they appear hovering about there like
SpeB:res, which are their Phantafies, and they are
called Genii : Some of them were fent ·once from
that Hell, that I might know the Nature of them ;
they immediately applied themfelves to the. back
Part
THE DIVINE P...ROVIDI:.NCE. 465
Part of my Neck under the Occiput, and thence
entered into my AflcCI:ions, 'not choofing to enter
into my Thoughts, which they dexterou!ly avoided,
and they v;uicd my. Affections on~ aftd· another,
with a Ddlgn of bending them infcnfibly into their
Oppofites, which are Conc:upifcences of Evil, and.
forafmuch as they did not in the leaft meddle with
my Thoughts, they would have infled:ed and invert~
ed my AfFeCtions, without my Knowledge, if the
Lord had not prevented. They become fucb, who
in the W orkl do nqt believe there is :my fuch Thing
as a Divine Providence, and fearch for Nothing in
others but their Cupidities and Defires, ;>.nd fo lead
them till they acquire a perfeft Afcendeucy over
them ; and forafrnuch as they do this fo clandcf-
tinely and cunningly, that the others do not know
it, <lnd ;:.s after Death they are like themfclves,
therefore immediately after their Arri\·a! in the fpi-
ritual \Vorld, they arc cafi into that Hell; when
feen in the Light of Heaven, they appear without
any Nofe, arid wh:!t is wonderful, although they
are fo cunning, yet they are more fenfual than oth-
ers. Forafmuch as the Ancients called the fenfual
Man a Serpent, and fuch a l''ilan is a more cunning
;md crafty Reafoner than others, therefore it is faid,
" 1hat tbe Serpent 'l.vas morefubtil than any Eeqfl of
tbc Field," G..:n. iii. 1 : And the Lord faith, "Be)'~
u.:ife as &rpents, and harmlifs as Doves," Matth. x.
16 ; and moreover the Dragon, who is alfo called.
the old Serpent, the De\'il, ~nd Satan, is dcfcribcd
as "having fevm Heads, and ten I!orm, and ftc;.•."n
Crowns upon JJis !Icads," 1\ poe. ;~ii. 3, 9 : By fnen
I-Ie~ld.:; i:; f:gni:~cd Crafti:1efs, by ten IIams i~ llg:Ji-
L L I Jied
466 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
fied the P ower of perfuading by Fallacies, and by
fevcn Crowns are fignificJ the holy Things of the
\VorJ and of the Church profaned. '
31 1. From this Dcfcription of felf-derived Pru-
dence, and of thofe who are in it, may be feen•what
is the N ature of that Prud~:!ce which is not felt:.
derived, and what Kind of P~i·Lms they arc ,,, ho
are in it, namely, that Prudence which is not felf-
J.erived is fuch Prudence as is in thofc, who do
not confirm in themfelves the Idea, that lntclE-
gence and \Vifdom are fr~om Ma?, faying, how can
a Man have Wifdoni from himfclf, ;::.nd how can a
Tvlan do Good from himfelf; and when they fay
this, they fee that it is fo, for they think interiorly,
and alio belieYe that others thi.<k in the fame Man-
ner, efpecially the Learned, bec<mfe they do not
know that any one can think only exteriorly.
They are not in Fallacies by r\'leans of any Confir-
mat:ons of :Appearances, wherefore they l;:now ~r:d
perceive that l\1urdcrs, Adulteries, Thefts, a1~d
falfe Tcfl:imony, are Si:ls, and for that·Reafon, they
fhun them ; ::dio that lVI::tlice is not \ Vifdom, and
that C raftinefs is not Intelligence ; when they hear
ingenious Rcafonings founded in Fallacies, they
wonder and fmile \v!thin thcmfeh es; the Rcafon is,
b c::caufe in them there is no Veil bet~':een the In-
teriors and Exteriors, or between the fpiritual and
natural Things of the Mind, as there is in the S~;;­
fuai; wherefore they receive Influx from Heaven,
whereby they fee fuch Things interiorly. They
fpeak with mor<.:, Simplicity and Sincerity tbn oth-
ers, and place \ Vi:dom in iiviag weB, and not
in fpea1-.ins well ; they :;rc cc':-:1pa;·ati·:cly like
L::la:bs
TnE DrvrNE PROVIDENcE. 467
L:1mb and Sheep, when they who are in felf-de-
ri\·ed Prudence, arc like \Voll•es and Foxes; and
they are !ike thole who dwell· in a Houfe, and
through its \VindU\vs fee the Hea\·ens, whereas
they who arc in fc!f-derivcd Prudence, arc like
thofe who dwell in a Cellar, and through their
·windows fee Nothinr- but what is under Ground ·,
()
nnd they are like thofe who ftand upon a Moun-
tain, and fee fuch as are in fclf-derive_
d Prudence
wandering below in Vallics and in Woods. Hence
it may appear that Prudence, which is not fclf-de.
rived, is Prudence from the Lord, f!milar as to its
A[1pearance in Externals to felf-derived Prudence,
but totally different in Internals ; in Internals Pru-
c~ence which is not felf-derived appears in the fpir-
itual vVorld like a Man or Being truly human,
but felf.derived Prudei1ce like an Image appearing
to ban} Life from this Circurnfl:ance only, that they
who are in ir, have Hill Rationality and Liberty, or
a faculty of unuerflanding and \villing, and thence
of foeakiM· and aCt:inrr ,· and that by' .f\·Icans of thefe
J. u ()
"Fa:ulties they alfo can fimulate human Beings, or
feign themfclves Men : The Reafon why they are
fuch Images, is, becaufe Evils and FalCes are not
ali·•e, but only Goods and Truths, and forafmuch
as they know this by Means of their. Rationality,
(for if they did not bow ir, they would not pre-
tend to fuch Thin<Js) therefore they poifcfs humau
Vitaiity [Vitale hwnanwn] in \their Images. V!h~
doth not know, that the Quality of a Man is de-
krmined uy what he i;:; interiorly, confequcntiy
that he is a real .1\Ian, who is interiorly fuch as he
·wifhcth to feern exteriorly, and that he is an Image
[ Simulacbrum]
4-68 ANGELIC \VISDOM: CO:KC.ERNING
[ Simulachrum] or Counterfeit, \vho is only a Ma::t
exteriorly, and not interiorly; think as you fpeak
in Favcur of Cod, of Religion, and of Jufl:ice and
Sincerity, and ·you will be a Man, and then the
Divine Providence will be your Prudence, and you
·will Jifcern in others th:J.t felf.derived Prudence is
Infanity. .
3I z. II. Cf'hat lvlan from fl!f-derived Prudenu
pc;fuades bi!'!fe!f, and confirms in bimfe!f the Idea,
that e't·ery Good and 'frutb is in !Jin!fc!f, ar:d front ,
him.fe!f, and in like A-fanner every evil andfal.fe Prin-
ciple. lnfl:itute an Argumentation or Courfe of
Reafoning by Analogy between natural Good and
Truth, and fpiritual Good and '"fruth : Inquire
firft what is true and good in the Sight of th Eye;
is not that true therein which is called beautiful,
and that good therein which is called delightful ?
for Delight is felt from feeing beautiful ObjeC\:s.
Inquire next what is tr'ue and good in the Senfe of
Hearing ; is not that true therein which is called
harmonious, and that good therein which is called
fwcet and pleafant ? for Sweetnefs or Pleafurc is
felt from hea:ing harmonious Sounds. It i3 the
fame \vith the other Senfes; hence it is evident
what natural Truth and Good are : Confider now
what fpiritual Truth and Good are ; is fpiritual
Truth any Thing elfe but d1e Beauty and Harmo~
ny of fpiritual 'I hings and Objects ? and is fpiritual
Good any Thing elfc but the Delight and Pleaf-
ure arifing from a Perception of their Beauty or
Harmony? Let us now fee, whether ally Thing
can be aiferted of the one which is not true of the
other' or of what is n~ttural which is not true of
\1 h<:.t
Trn· Dn'INE -PROVIDENCE. 469
what is fpiritu:J.l; of \~hat is natural it is faid, that
what is beautiful and delightful to the Eye flows
from external ObjcCls, and what is harmonious anJ
fweet to the Ear flows from bfl:ruments ; b ·.vhat
RefpeCl: is the Cafe difrerent with the org:mic Sub-
fiances of the Mind? It is faid of the latter, that
thofe Things (Yi.z;. Beauty and Delight) are in
them, and of the former, [natural Organs] that
they flow into them [or as we fay in Englifh, im-
prcfs them ;] but if it be af!:etl why it is f.1icl that
tl1ey flow in, or enter by Infiux, no other Anfwer
can be given, than that i~ is fo, becaufe there ap-
pears a Diftance between the Organ of Senfe and
that which impreiles or flows into it ; and if it be
ofked, why in the other Infl:ance, it is faicl of fpir.
itual ObjeCts, that they :.1.re in the Mind and its
organized Subftances ; no other Anfwer can be
giren, than that it is fo, becaufe there doth not
<~ppear any Diflance between them; confequently
that it ie the Appearance of Diflance \vhich caufcth
a different Notion to t~ke Place rcfpeeting the
Things which a Man thinks and percei\'es, and the
Things which he fees and hears : But this falls to
the Ground, \vhen it is known .that the Spiritud
Principle doth not exill in Diflance as the Natural
docs ; think of the Sun and l\'Ioon, or of Rorne
m~d Confl:antinople ; do they not exifl in Thous-ht
,.,.·ithout Diftance, provided fuch Thousht be not
conneCted with Experience acquired by bight or
by Hearing ? \Vhy then do }'OU perfuade yourfclf,
hecaufc Diflance does not :1pp:;ar in Thou~ht, that
Good and Truth, as alfo Evil and the Falre 1-'ri:Ici-
ple exi[t there, and do not enter by Influ;: ? To
th~s-
470 ANG~LIC '\VISDOM: CONCERNING
this I \Yili add a Fact l~nown by Experience, and
which is common in the fpiritual \Vorld ; one
Spirit can infufe his Thoughts and Affeaions into
another Spirit, withot~t the other's knowing; but
tlut the fame is of his own Thought and Affet:\:ion;
this is called in that World thinking from another,
and thinking in another; I have feen this done a thou.
fa!ld Times, ::md have alfo done it an hundred Times
myfelf; and yet the Appearance ofDifi:ance w2s con-
fiderable; but as foon as they knew that it was anothe~
who infufed thofe Thoughts and AffeB:ions, they \Yerc
angry, and turned themfelres away, acl:no·.vledging
neverthelefs that Diftance doth not appear in the
internal Sight or Thonght, unlefs it be difcovered,
as it doth in the external Sight or Eye, and that
hence it is, that it is thought to enter into the latter
by Influx. To this Faa I can. add my own daily
Experience; evil Spirits have often injetl:ed Evils
a~d Falfes into my Thoughts, which appeared to
me as if they were in myfclf, and from myfelf, or
~s if I thought them myfelf; but fcrafm!JCh as l
knew that they \Vere Evils and Falfcs, I endeavour-
ed to find out who injecred them, and they were
deteCted and driven away, and they were at a con-
fiderable DiH:ance from me. ,Hence it may appear .
that all Evil with its falfc Principle flows from Hell,
and that all Good with its Truth flows from the
Lord, and tha.t they boLh appear as if they were in
rv1an.
313. The Nature '-lnd Q~ality of thofe who arc
jn feH:dcriveJ Prudence, and of thofe who are in
Prudence not felf-derived, and \Yho arc thence in
the Divine Providence, is defcribed in the Vlord:~.
by
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE,
by Adam and his Wife Eve in the Garden of Eden,
where there were two Trees, the Tree of Life, and
the Trc~ of the Knowledge of Good and Evil, and
by their eating of the latter; that by Adam and his
\Vife Eve, in the internal or fpiritual Senfe, is meant
and defcribec! the Lord's moft ancient Church upon
this Earth, which wa:> more noble and celefl:ial than
any that fucceeded it, may be fecn above, n. 241 ;
by the refl: is fignified as follows ; by the Garden
of Eden is fignificd the Wifdom of the Men of that
Church ; by the Tree of Life, the Lord with Re-
fpeCl: to his Divine Providence; and by the Tree of
Kno\vledge, Man with RefpeCl: to his felf-Jerived
Prudence ; by the Serpent, the- Senfuality a:::}d Pi·o-
priety (or Proprium) of Man, which in itfelf is Self.
LoYe, and the Pride of his own lnteiligence, confe· ·
qucntly the Devil and Satan ; by eating of the Tree
of Knowledge, the Appropriation of Good and
Truth, as if they were not from the Lord and con.
fequently of the Lord, but from Man himfclf anJ.
confequently of Man, that is, his own; and foraf·
much as Good and Truth are Things really Divine
in Man, for by Good is meant the whole of Love,
and by Truth the whcle of \Vifdom, therefore if
Man claims them to himfelf as his own, he cannot
but think himfelf like a God, wherefore the Serpent
f:.tid, " In the Day that yc cat thereif, then your Ey~t
Jba/1 be op_ened, and yc jb.71l be as God, knrr..uing c~od
and Evil," Gen. iii. 5 ; fo alfo do they think who
are in Self-Love, and thence in the Pride of fclf-
derived Intelligence in Hell ; by the Condemnation
of the Serpent is (:gnified tbe Condemnation of
Ivlun's own proper Love and proper lntelligea,.:c;
by·
472 ANGELIC \VrsDOM CONCERNING
by the Condemnation of Eve the Condemnation of
the voluntary Proprium [or Will.proper to Man,]
and by the Condemm!tion of Adam the Condemna-
tion of the intelleCl:ual Proprium [or Underfianding
proper to Man;] by Thorns and Thifl:les, which
the Earth fhall bring forth, is fignified mere Falfc-
hood and Evil ; by their being qft out of the Gar-
den is fignified Deprivation of \Vifdom ; by the
guarding of the \Yay to the Tree of Life, the
Lord's provident C:tre to proteCl: the holy Things of
the \Vord'and of the Church :from Viobtion ; by
the Fig Le::rre3 wherewith they covered their Naked-
nefs, arc frgnified moral Truths, under which were
conceald the Things appertaining to their Love
anJ. Pride ; and by the Coats of Skins, with which
they were afterwards cloathed, are fignified Appear-
ances of Truth, in which alone they were princi-
pled. This is the fpiritual Meaning of thofe Things.
But he who choofes, may remain in the literal
Senfe, only let him know that it is fo undufl:ood in
Heaven.
314. \Vhat Sort of Perfons they are, who are in-
fatuated by felf-derived Intelligence, may appear
from their Imaginations in :rv1atters of interior
Judgment; as for Example, concerning Influx,
Thou6ht, and Life. Concerning INFLUX, they
think imerfely, as that the Si:!ht of the Eye flows
·- .
into the inte;r.;;.l Si?:ht of the 1\'~ind, which is the
UnderfbndinM', anLl that the Hearir:g of the Ear
flows into the internal Hearinrr, \Yhich is :1lfo the
C >
Undcrl1:anding; and they do not perceive, that the
lJnderl1:anding from the \7i.1 iJ1 flow:; into the F.ye,
.:nd iuto th~ £:..;·, and not only conflitntes thofc
Scnf~s,
THE DIVINE PRO\'IDENCE. 473
Senfes, but alfo ufes them as its Inil:ruments in the
natural \Vorld : But becaufc this is not according
to Appearance, they do not perceive it ; only if it
be affirmed that what is Natural doth not flow in-
to what is Spirit~al, but v.·hat is Spiritual into "" hat
is Natural, itill they think, What is that which is
Spiritual but Somewhat more purely Katural ?
Moreover, doth it not appear, that when the Eye
fees any beautiful ObjeEt:, or the Ear hears any
h~nnonious Sound, the l\1ind, which is the U n-
derftauding and \Viii, is delighted, not lmO\vinr;
that the Eye doth not fee from itfelf, nor the
Tongue tafte from irfelf, nor the Nofe fmell from
itfelf, nor the Skin feel from itfel( but that it is the
1\'Jincl or Spirit of Man, 'vhich there percci-.'es fuch
Things by the Senfc, and thence is affcB:ed accord-
ing to tl1e ~ality of the Sen{c ; but Hill that the
Mind or Spirit of 1\Ian does not feel them ti·om
itfelf, but from the Lord ; and that to think other-
wife, is to think frc)m Appearances, ~n d if it be con~
. firmed, from Fallacies. Concerning T~-lOUGHT,
they fay, that it is So1'1F\\ hat modified in the Air,
varied according to its Objects, and eniarged in Pro-
portion as it is cultivated ; therefore, that Ideas of
Thought are Images, iike Meteors appearing in
the .t\ir ; and that the Memory is a Table upon
\':hich they are imprdfed ; not knowir!g that
Thoughts e:~ifl: alike i:1 Subfbnces purdy organic,
as the Si:rht and Hcarin?" do in their's: Let them
- ~ 0
only look into the Brain: and they wiil fee that it i.>
full of fuch Subfl:cmces ; injure thc;n, a:1d you will
bring on a Delirium; defiroy tht m, :mJ you wi:l
clie : But what Thought is. and alfo wb.t l\1c:norv
' ./
M l\I m is,
-4·74 ANGELIC \VrsDoM co~c.ERNING
is, may be feen abO\·e, n. ~79, to\\ ards the End.
Concerning LIFE, they know no other, than. that it
is a certain Activity of Nature, which caufeth itfelf
to be felt divcrfely, as the living ~ody moves itfelf
organically : If it be alleged, that if this be the
Cafe;>, Nature lives; thi::; they deny, but ma:ntain
that Nature giveth Life: If you fay, is not Life then
diffipated when the Body dies? they anfwer, that
Life remains in a Particle of Air which is called the
Soul : If you fay, vvhat then is God, is not He Life
itfelf? Here they are filenr, and v. ill not declare
what they think: If you fay, \viii you not acknowl-
edge that the Divine Love.and the Dirine Wifdom
.-.re Life itfclf? they . anf\ver, what is Love, and
what is \Vifdom ? For in their Fallacies they. do not
fee what Love and \Vifdom are, nor what God is.
Thefe Obfervations are adduced, t:;"t it may be feen
how 1\lan is infatuated by [elf-derived Pnwence, be·
caufe he draws all his Conclufions from Appear·
ances, and thereby from Fallacies.
316. The ]{eafon why fclf-derived Prudence
perfuades and confirms the Idea, that every Good
and Truth is from Man and in Man, i5, becaufe
felf-derivcd Prudence is the intellettual Propriun\
of Man flowing from Self-Love, which is the vel·
untary Proprium of Man, and that which is his
Proprium cannot do othcrwife than make all
Things his own ; for it c:mnot be elevated by him :
All who are led by the Divine Prm·idence of the
l-ord, are elevated above their Proprium, and then
they fee that all Good and Truth are from the
Lord; yea they fee alfo, that that which is from
the Lord in 1\'!;m, is perpetually of the Lord, and
never
THE DIVINE PROVIDEl-:'CE. 475
never of Man. He who thinks otherwifc, is like
one who hath Goods of hh JVlafl:er depofited in his
Hands, and lays Claim to them, or appropriates
them to himfdf as his own, who is therefore not
a Steward, but a Thief; and forafmuch as the
Proprium of Man is Nothing but Evil, therefore he
alfo immerfes them into his Evil, whereby they '""ill
be confumed, like Pcads cafl: into Dm;g, or dil.Tolv-
ed in Acids.
3I 7. III. That every Thing, if'lobicb a }/[an is pcr-
.fuac!t:d, mzd in which he is co1jirmed, remains a.r tfproj')-
er to bim, or becomes his Pro1fJrium or Property. It is
thought by many, that no Truth can be feen by Man,
except from Things confirmed ; but this is falfe :
In Things which relate to the ciYil Government and
fficonomy of a Kir:gdom or State, what is ufefu!
and good cannot be feen, unlefs fc\'cral of the Stat-
\ltes and Ordinances therein be known ; nor in
Matters of a judicial Nature, unleis Laws be I~nown;
nor in naturai Things, as in Phyfics,_ Chemi!1:ry,
Anatomy, Mechanics, and the like, unlefs a r~lan
be in.ftruCl:ed in Sciences; but in Things purely of
a rational, moral, and fpiritLJal Nature, Truths ap-
pear merel)' from their own Light, p;:o•,>ided a Man,
.l>y 1\'Ieans of a good Education, be made in fame
Degree r:1.tional, moral, anu fpiritual : The Reafo:t
is, becaufe every Maa, with RcfpeC'c to his Spirit,
v.hich it is that thinks, is in the fpiritual 'V,'orlc,
and is one amon~ thofe who li\•e thc~e, conf.~quent­
ly is in fpiritual Light, which illuminates the Inte-
riors of hi~ UnJerfbnding, anJ as it \vere diccate~ ;
, for fpiritual Light in its Fflence is the Divi!1e Truth
of the LorJ'~ Divine vYifdom : Hence Man hath
Pov:er
• 476 1\.NCELIC \VISDOM CONCERN! KG
Power to think analytically, to form Conclufions
concerning Juftice and Rectitude in Judgments, and
to fee HoneH:y in moral Life, and Good in fpiritual
Life; and likcr.vife many Truths, which do not fall
into D~::-knefs, except by the Confirmation of Falfes ~
Thefe Things 1\'Jan fees comparatively jufl: as he fees
the Mind of ano:hcr in his Face, and perceives his
AfFections from the Sound of his Voice, without any
other Knowledge, than what is inherent· in every
one : ·why fhoulJ not Man fee the Interiors of his
Life which are fpiritual and moral, by Influx, ill a
certain Degree, when there is no Animal which doth
not lmow its N eceffarics, which are natural, by In..
flux? Birds know how to make their Nefts, lay
their Eggs, hatch their young, ~md choofe their
l"ood ; befides other wonderful Things, which are
called lnfl:ina.
3I 8. But ho·.v the State of Man is changed by
Confirmations and confequcnt Perfuafions, fhall now
be fhe'.vn in the following Order. I. That there is
Nothing but what may be confirmed, and the Falfc
more eafily than the Truth. :2. That when the
Falfe is confirmed, Truth docs not appear ; but
that from confirmed Truth, the Falfe does appear.
3· That to be atle to confirm whatioever a Man
plcafes, is not Intelligence, b'...~t only IngC'nuity, which
may take Place e\·cn in the mcft wicked. 4· That
there may be intellectual Confirmation, and not at
the fame Time voluntar:; ; but 'that all Yoluntary
Confirn~atic!"l is alfo intelleCtual. S· That the vol...
unt:1ry ,,nd ::.t tee i~tme 1 ime intdkCl:ual Confinna-
tion of Eril, cau:eth Man to think that his own Pru-
qence is all, and the Divine Providence Nothing i
bu~
THE DIVINE PROVIDENC~. 477
but not the lntellefrual Confirmation tben~of alone.
6. That every Thing confirmed by the \Viii, and
at the fame Time by the Underfb.nding, remains to
Eternity ; but not that which is only confirlneJ by
the Underihmding. \·Vith Refpefr to the FmsT:
'Fhat there is Nothing but 'what may be coJ!firmcd, and
the Fa!ft more caJily tban the 'Fruth : \Nbat may not
be confirmed, when it is confirmed by Atheifl:s, that
God is not the Creator of the Uni\·erfc, but that
Nature is the Creator of herfelf; that Religion is
only an external Means of Refl:raint, and calculated
for the fimple and the vulgar ; that Man is like a
Beafl:, and that he dies in like Manner? \:Vhat may
not be confirmed, when it is confirmed that Adul-
teries are allowable, as alfo. cianddl:ine Thefts,
Frauds, and deceitful Arts ; th~t. Cunning is In~
telligence, and Malice \~.rifdom ? \\rho doth not
confirm his ovm Herefy ? Are there no~ Volumes
full of Confirmations in Favour of the two rcigHing
H erefies in the Chri!Ean ·world ? Ef'r;:1bliflt ten
Herefies even of an abPcrufe Nature, and teil an in-
genious Perfon to confirm them, and he will con-
firm them aU : If you afterwards view them o:1ly
from their Confirmations, will you not fe;; }:'dies as
if they were Tt uths? Imfmuch as every falfe Prin-
ciple hath a lucid Appearance in the naturd Man,
arifing from his Appearances and Fallacies, which
is not•thc Cafe with Truth, e:~ccpt in the fpiritu:1l
Man, it is evident that the Falfe can be cmllirmed
more ca!liy than the Truth. b Or.:ler t:)at it may
be known, that every falfe Principle and every Evil
can b~ confirmed in fuch a Manner, that the falfc
Principle may ap~1ear true, :::.rl\.1 the c·, il Principle
good,
478 ANGELIC \VrSDOM CONCERNING
good, take the following Example ; let it be con~
:firmed, that Li~ht is Darknefs, and Da.rknefs
Light ; may it n~t be faid, '\Vhat is Light in itfel(?
Is it any Thing but a certain ,Appearance in the
Eye according to its State ? Vvhat is Light when
the Eye is fhut? Have not Bats aad Owls fuch
Eyes, that they fee Light as Darknefs, and Dark..
nefs as Light? I ha\'e heard fome Perfons fay, that
they can fee in the fame Manner, and of the Infer..
tials I have heard, that although they are in Dark.
nefs, yet t~y fee one another ; do not Men fee
Light at Midnight in their Dreams ? Is not Dark.,.
nefs therefore Light, and Light Darknefs ? But it
may be anfwered, 'What is this to the Purpofe ? Light
is Light, as Truth is Truth ; and Darknefs is Dark..
nefs, as what is Falfe is Falfe. Take another Ex.
ample; let it be confirmed that a Raven is white;
may it not be faid, his Blacknefs is only a Shade:.
which is not his real Colour? his Feathers are in'4
wardly white, and fo is his Body; thefe are the
Subfl:ances of which he confifis ; fince his Blacknefs
is only a Shade, therefore a Raven turns white when
he grows old, and fame fuch have been feen ; what
is Black in itfelf but '\Vhite ? Grind black Glafs, and
you v.iJI fee that the Powder is white ; therefore
when you call a Raven black, you fpeak from the
Shade and not from the Reality : But it may be
anfwered, \vhat is this to the Purpofe? At this Rate
it might be faid that all Birds are white. Thefe
Cafes, although they are contrary to found Reafon,
are adduced, to the End it may be feen, that Falfe-
hood diametrically oppofite ~o Truth, and Evil diar
p1etrically oppofite to Goo~, may be confirmeJA
SECONDLY;-
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 479
..
SECONDLY: 'That when the Fa!fe is confirmed, 'Truth
docs not appear ; but that from co'!firmed 'Truth, the
Fa!fc does ap}!'ar : All Falfe is in the Dark, and all
Truth is in the Light, :md in the Dark Nothing ap-
pears, yea neither can it be known what it is, but by
feeling it ; not fo in the Light ; wherefore alfo, in
the \Vord, Falfes are called Darknefs, and thence
they who are in Falfes, ;ue faid to \valk in Darknefs
and in the Shadow of Death ; and on the other
Hand, Truths are there called Light, and thence
they who are in Truths, are faid ro walk in the
Light, and are called the Children of Light. That
when the Falfe is confirmed, Truth does not appear,
and that from confirmed Truth, the Falfe docs ap•
pear, is evident from many Conflderations ; as for
E:~ample, who would fee any fpiritual Truth if the
\Vord did not teach it ? \Vould not thick Darknefs
prevail, which could not be difpdled, but by the
Light in which the \Vord is, and with fuch as defir-
ed to be enlightened ? \:Vhat Heretic can fee his
own Falfes, except he admit the genuine Truth of
th-; Cht:rch ? He does not fee them before : I have
difcourfed with thofe, who oo.ve confirmed them-
felYeS in Faith feparated from Charity, and when
they were afked whether they faw fo many Things
in the Word about Love and Charity, about ·works
and ACtions, about keeping the Commandment£,
and that he is happy and wife who doeth them, and
he is foolifh who doth not do them, they f:::id, that
when they read thofe Things, they faw no otherwife
than that they are F:1ith, and fo pafi"ed them over,
as it were with their Eyes fhut. 1 bey who ha\'e
confirmed thernfeh·cs in Falfcs, are like thofe who
fee
480 ANGELIC 'V!SDOM CONCER N I NG
fee Images piCl:ured on a \Vall, and when they are
in the Shade of Evening, thofe PiCl:ures feem to them
in their Phantafy like a Horfe or a Man, '\\ hich
vifionary Image is difpelled by the influent Light of
D:1y. Who can perceive the fpiritual Unc!cannefs
of Adultery, unlds he is in the fpiritual Clcannefs
of Ch:1flity? \Vho can feel the Cruelty of Revenge,
but he v.ho is in Good ari:lng from neighbourly
Love ? What Adulterer, or v1hat revengeful Pcrfon;
does not fneer at thofe, who call their Deiights in-
fernal, and on the other Hand the Delights of conM
j ugal and neighbourly Love celeftia!, and fo on ?
TIIIRDL Y : 'That to be able to cor!ftnn wbatfoc·vcr a
Jlv1an plcrfes, is not Intdligcncc, but only Ingenuity,
which may tal:e Place e-ven in the mofl wicked: 'fherc
are fame very dexterous Confirmers, \Yho do not
know any Truth,and yet can ~onfinn bothTruth and
Falfchood; and fome of them fay, what is Truth?
Is there any fuch Thing exifl:ing? Is not that Truth
which I make true? And neverthelefs thefe in the
\Vorld are thought intelligent, and yet they are on-
ly Plaifl:erers of the Wall; no others are intelligent,
Lnt they who perceive Truth to be Truth, and con-
firm the fame by Truths continually perceived ;
thefe two Kinds of l\Ien are not eafily diflinguifhed,
hecau[e it is not eafy to difiinguiih between the
Light of Confirmation and the Light of the Perccp·
tion of Truth, neither doth it appear otherwife th:m
t}l;::t they who are in the Light of Confirm:-:.t:on, are
alfo in the Light of the Perception of Truth, w:1e:n
llcvcrthclefs the Dlflerence is as rrcat ;;s bet\vecn
"
- th.: Light of Infatuation and gl'nuine J.ight; ;md
the Light ~·f lnfatu::ttion in the friritual \"\rorld is of
fltch
THE DIYINI! PROVIl:>!NCE. 48f
fuch a Nature, that it is turned into Darknefs when
genuine Light fl.o\VS in ; fuch infatuating Light
have many in Hell, who, when they are admitted
into genuine Light, fee Nothing at all; from which
it is evid~nt, thzt to be able to confirm whatfcevcr a
Man pleafes, is only Ingenuity, attainable even by
the moft wicked. FouRTIILY: That there may be in·
tel!eBual Conjirnzati:m, and not at thefame Time volw;.
tary; but tlz!_zt all~voluntary Corifirmation is {lt tbefan:J
Time intellef!ual: Take thefe Examples by \Vay ·of
Illufl:rarion ; they who confirm Faith fepa'rate froit~
Charity-, and yet lh·e a Life of Charity; anrl in gen-
eral they who confirm the Falfe of Doctrine, and
yet do not live according to it, are thofe \vho are in
intellectual Confirmation, and not at the fame Time
in voluntary Confirmation ; but they wlio confirm
the Falfe of Doctrine, and live according to it, <1re
thofe who are in voluntary and at the fame Time
intellccrual Confirmatiorl : The Reafon is, becaufe
the UnderfianJing doth not flow into the ·wm, but
the Will into the Underfl:anding. Hence alfo it is
evident, wh::tt the Falfe of Evil is, anJ what the
Faile which is not of Evil; the Re:tfon why the
Falfe which is not of Evil can be conjoined with
Good, but not the Faile of Evil, if:, becaufe the
Falfe '.vhich is not of Evil is t~e· Falfe in the Un.
d~r!l:anding and not in the \Viii, and the Falfe of
Evil is the Falfc in the Undcrflanding from Evil in
the \Viii. FrFTIIL Y: That tbc voluntary and at tbe
, fame 'Tillie intdlec?uaf Co,!frma!ion q{Evil ;azfetb Afmz
to think fc!fderh:ed Prudence iJ All, and the Divine
Providence Nothing; but mit the intelletlual Co1jirma·
tion tbcreofalol?t'. There are many \Vho confirm t:H.:
N N n Efficacy ·
~82 Axc.r:LIC VhsooM coNCERNING
•
Efficacy of fdf.der!v:d Prudence in themfclvcs from
Appearances in the \Vvr!d, but yet Jo not deny the
Divin~ ProviJence; their's is only intell~..:dual Con-
Jirmation ; whereas fuch ~s deny at the fame Time
the D:vine P;·o\'idencc, thir's is voluntary Cod1r-
mation alfo; but tLis la!t, together with Perfuafion,
takes Place principally in thof:.! who are \Vorfllip-
pers of Nature, and at the f:1me Time \Vorl11ipp~rs
of themfd,·es. SIXTHLY: '1/.Jnt n•ery Tbing rcn-
Ji!.·md <·; r.tx Will, and nt tbcjm;:c 'TiillC by t!x UnJ( r-
fltzndh.g~·:s permanent to l:'tcrnity; b~tt not tbat "-'--'bir/;
is vr.ly co'i~nJicd by the Undc~flandi,,g; for that whici1
is of the Underitan.!i.1g mdy, is not in Mz.n, but
withc·•
.lt him, inafmuch as it is only in hi:; Thought, •
and Nothing enters into l\bn, and is a?propri~tcd
to him, bt:t what is received by the 1.\'ill, for this be-
comes of his Life's Love; that t:lis abideth to E -
ternitv, !hall be ihewn i::-1 the next Number.
319. The Reafon why every Thing confirmed in
the ·will, and at the fame Time by the Underfland-
ing, abideth to Eternity, is, bccaufe every one is
his 0\\'11 Love, and his Lo\'e is of his \\'ill; alio bc-
caufe every 1v1an is his own Good or his own Evil,
fm· all tbat is cz.iled Gooll which is of the Love, the
fame with Rcfpca to Evil. .Forafmuch as Man is
his own Love, he is alfo the Form of his own
Love, and may be called rbe Organ of his Life's
Love. It was f;1id above, n. 279, that the Affec-
tions of M;J.n's Love and the Thoughts derived
from them are Changes and Variations of the State
and Fo~m of the organic Subftances of his 1\'Iind,
and it fl1all now be fnewn what the Nature and
Quality of thofc Changes is; an Idea of them may
be
TnE DIVINE PRovrnExcE. Ll.8"
• J
be haLl from the fk:t!·t am] Lun~s, in that there are
alternate Expat:-tfions and Compreffio~s, or Dilat:t-
tions and Contracrions, which in the Heart are calbl
its Syftole and Diaftolc, in the Lungs Refpirations;
which arc recip:-oe:1l Extenuons and RetraEtions, or
Difl:enlions and Coarcbtions of it3 Lobes; thdc are
the Changes and Variations of the State of the Heart
<:nd Lungs : The like takes Place in the other Vifcera
of the Body, and allo in the Parts thereof, by which
the Blood and animal Juices a:-e rccti\·ed. and circu-
lateJ. There are 2-!fo fimilar Cha!l!Tes and Variations
,,
of State in the organic Forms of the Mind, which
are theSubje8:s of i\lan's Afied:ions and Thouglns,as
was fhewn above ; with this liitlcrence, tint tho
.Expanfions and Comprcffions, or Reciprocations of
the latter, are rcfpcEtively info much gr~arer Per-
fection, that they cannot be exprdfcd i:1 \Vords of
natural Language, but only in \Vords of fpiritua}
L:mgmge, \\·bich em only import, that they arc
vertical Ingyrations, and Egyr:1tions, ~fter the l\'hn-
ner of perpetual fpiral Circumfitxio:Is, wunJcrfully
confafciculated into Forms recept:Ye of Life. But
the N8.ture of thefc. purely organic Subfb::ccs an:l
Form:. ia the \Vickecl and in the Co"d ihall now
b~ explained; with the Good tbey arc fpirally con-
voluted forwards, but with the \Vicked backwards,
and rhofe which arc fpirally e<mvoluteLl forwards are
turned to the Lord, anllreceive llll1l!x from him;
but thofe whi.:h are fpir:llly com·olutcll backwards,
are turned towards 1!..:11, and receiYe rnflt:x from
thence: It is to be noted, that in Proportion as rh~y
arc turned hac!:warJs, in the fa;ne P:·,1portion they
~rc open "Jchind, z.nd clM::::d before, bt.:t o:: the con-
trary,
484 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
trary, that in Proportion as they are turned forwards,
in the fame Proportion they are open before, and
clofed behind. Hence it may appe~.r, what Kind of
a Form, or what Kind of an Organ a wicked Man
is, and what Kind of a Form, or .what Kind of an
Organ a good l\Ian is, and that they are turned con-
trarywife; and forafmuch as an Inverfion once in-
duced cannot be retwified, it is evidei1t that fuch as
it is when a Man dies, fuch it remains to Eternity :
It is the Love of Man's Will, which makes this
Turning, or which converts and inverts, for, as \vas
faid above, every 1\lan is his own LoYe ; hence it is,
that C\'ery one after Death goeth in the Viray of
his Love ; he who is in good Love to. Heaven, and
l1e who is in evil Love to Hell, neither doth he refi:
till he is in that Society where his ruling Love is ;
and what is wonderful, every one knows the \Vay,
as though he fmelt it with his Nofc.
320. IV. That if Man u•;uld belie·ve, u:bich is the
Truth, that every Thing good and true is from' th(!
Lord, and c·vcry Thing evil and fa!fe isfrom Hell, he
would neither appropriate Good to hin!fl!f, and make it
meritorious, nor ·would he appropriate to bin!fe!f Evil,
and make bin!fe!fguilty ofit. Eut forafmuch as thefc
Things are contrary to the Belief of thofe, who
have confirmed in themfelves the Appearance, that
'\Vifdom and Prudence are from Man, and do not
flow in according to the State of the Mind's Organ-
ization, treated of above, n. 3 1g, therefore they
fhall be demonfhated ; and that it may be done
difl:ina!y, the following drder !hall be obferved. I.
That he who.confirms in himfelf the Appearance,
that \ Vif<,l.om and Prud~nce are from Man anJ
thence
\
THE DJVINE PROVIDENCE. 485
thence in him as his own, cannot fee otherwifc, than
that if this were not the Cafe,..he would. not be
Man, but either a Beall or a Statue ; when never-
thelefs the contrary is true. 2. That to believe and
think, what is the Truth, that every Thing good and
true is from the Lord, and that every Thing evil
and falfe is from Hell, appears to b;:: impoffible,
when neverthelefs it is truly human and thence an-
gelic. 3· That fo to believe and think is irnpoilible
to thofr, who do not acknowledge the Lord's Divin-
ity, and who do not acknowledge Evils to be Sins;
but that it is poffible to thofe, who acknowledge
thofe two Things. 4· That they who are in the
Acknowledgment of thefe t;vo Things, only refle[t
upon Evils in themfelves, and cafl: them out from
themfelves, into Hell from ·whence they come, .in
Proportion as they fhun and hold them in Averfion
as Sins. 5· That thus the Divine Providence nei-
ther appropriates Evil nor Good to any one, but
that felf-derlvecl Prudence appropriate:> both.
32 r. But thefe A·rticles {hall be explained in the
Order propofed. FIRST: 'rbat be wbo co!!f
inils in
bin!ft!J tbe Appcarmzre, that TVifdom and Prudence are
from Alan, and thence in him as his own, cannot fee
otberwifi, than that if this 1.oere not the Cafe, be
·would not be a k!an, but eitber a Bci'fll or a Statui!;
when nev::rtbdefs the contrary is true. It is a Law of
the Divine Providence, that Man lliould think as
from himfelf, and that he fhould aCl prudently as
f~·om himfelf, but yet fhould acknowled~;e that he
doeth fo from the Lord ;' ilcuce it follows, that he
who thinks and ach prudently as from himldf, and
at the fame Time acknowledges that he coe~ lo
from
~86 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCER:r-.~ING
from the Lord, the fame is a Man, but not he who
confirms in himfelf ;:m Idea, that all that he think>
and does is from himfelf; nor he, \vho, becaufe
he knoweth that \Vifdom and Prudence are from ,
God, waits for Influx ; for the latter becomes like
a Statue., and the former like a Beall.: That he who
waits for Ir:flux is like a Statue, is evident ; for he
mull. fl.:and or fit motionlefs, with his Hands hang-
ing down, and his Eyes either fhut or wide open
without l\1otion, neither thinking nor breathing ;
and what Life in fuch Cafe is there in him ? That
l1c who believes that all he thinks and does, is from
himfdf, is not unlike a Reafl.:, may al:o be evident ;
for he thinks only from the nat\}ral Mind, which
Man hath in common with Beafl.:s, and not from the
rational fpiritual Mind, which is the Mind truly
human ; for this latter Mind acknowledges, that
God only thinks from himfelf, and that Man thinks
from God ; \vherefore alfo Men of that Defcription
[who think onlyfrom the natural Mind] kiww noDif-
ference between .Man and Beafr; except that a l\Ian
fj)eaks and a Beall. utters Sounds, and imagine that
they both die alike. Of thofe who wait for Influx,
it may be expedient to obferve further, that they do
not receive any Influx, except a fey'; who from their
Hearts dcfire it ; thefe fomctimes receive forne
Anfwer by lively Perception in Thought, or by t::tcit
Speech therein, and rarely by any manifcfl.: Speech,
and rhea it is to this Effec:t, that they may think
and aCt as they will or as they can, and that he ·who
aCts wilely i;;; a wife Man, and he who ac:ts foolifhly
is a Fool ; and they are never inflrufred what they
ought to believe and what they ought to do; and
this
TI-IE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 487
this to the End that hum:m Rationality and Liber-
ty may not be defhoycd, which confifi:s in every
one's acting from Free-Will according to Rcafon,
to <~II Appearance .:s from himfclf. They \vho alL:
infiructed by Influx \\hat they ought to believe and
to Jo, are not infhucb:d by the Lord, nor by any
Angd of Hc<!vcn, but by fome Spirit of an Enthu-
fidl:, ~taker, or l\lora\'ian, and are feduced. All
Influx from the Lord !s efretl:ed by Illumination cf
the Underfl:anding, and by the Affection of Truth,
and by the Influx of the latter into the former.
SECONDLY: 'Tbat to belie'••e and think 'i-ubat is tbe
'Frutb, that e·vcry 'Tbing gcad and true is fiom the
Lord, and tbat cvc1y Tbing C'vi! and j'l!ft is from
Ilc/1, appears to l•
e impq_/jiNe; when ncvcrthclcjs it h
truly human and thence angelic. To belieYe and think
that eyery Thing go0d and true is from God, ap-
pears po11ible, provided Nothing further be faid;
the Reafon is, becaufe it is conformable to theologi-
cal Faith, again!l which it is not allowable to think;
but to believe and think that every Thing evil
and falfe is from Hell, appears impoilible, becaufe
in this Cafe it would al!"o be l:;elicved, that Man
could think Nothing; neverthelcfs Man thinks as
from himfe!f, although from Ilell, becaufe it is the
Gift of the Lord to eYery one, . that Thought,
whencef:)ever, it comes, may appear in him as his
O\'JH, othcrwife Man would not li\'e as Man, neither
could he be brought out of Hell, and introduced
into H c:1vcn, th:lt is to fay, reformed, as is abun-
dantly fhewn ~~a·te : \Vherefore alfo the Lord giv-
eth Man to know, and th~nce to think, that he is in
Hdl if he is in Evil, and that he thinks from Hell
if
488 ANGELIC \VlSDOl\1 CONCERNING
if he thinks from Evil; and moreover he ("iveth
0
him to think of the Means whereby he may efcapo.
out of Hell, anJ not think from thence, but enter
into Heaven and there think from the Lord; and
he lil;:ewife giveth Man Freedom of EleCtion ; 'from
v:hich Confideratior.s it may be feen, that l\1an can
think what is Evil and Falfe as from himfelf, and
can alfo think that the one and the other is Evil
and Falfe; confequently that it is only an Appear-
ance that it is from himfelf, without which .t\ppear-
ance :Man would not be IV1an. The effential hu-
man Principle and thence the angelic confifts in
thinkirtg from the Truth, and this is the Truth,
that Man doth not think from himfelf, but that it
is given him by the Lord to think, in all Appear-
ance as fco:n himfelf. · THIRDLY: Thatfo to belic'"vc
and think--is impqffible to tbqfe, who do not aclmowledge
tl·e Lord's Di'Vinity, and wbo do not aclmo-:.dcdge
£.-viis to be Sins ; and that it is pqjfible to tbtfe 7.vbo
acknowledge tbc/e i'lco Things. The Reafon why it
is impofiiblc to thofe who do not ack!lowledge the
Lord's Divininty, is, bccaufe the Lord only givelh
Man to think and will, and they who do not ac~
knowledge the Lord's DiYbity, being- fepatated
from him, imagine that they thi:1k from themfelves ;
The Reafon why it is alfo impoffible to thofc who
do not acknowledge that EYils are Sins, is, becaufe
they thin.k from Hell, md every one there fuppofcs
that he thinks from himfclf. But that it is poGible
to th0r~ who acknowledge the Lord's Divinity, and
that EviL:; are Sins, m:ty appear from what hath
been abundantly adduced above, n. 288 to 2()4·
li'ouRTHL Y: 'lbat they ~cb() are in tbe Acknowledg-
ment
I
Ti-I:E Dxvd~~ PRovii>ENCE. 489
;nent of thoft two Things, only rejlea upon Evils in
1henifelves, and cqfl them out into Hell from whence
tbey come, in Proportion as they jbun ~nd hold tbenz
in Aveifzon as Sins. \Vho doth not or may not
know, that Evil is from Hell; and that Good is
from Heaven? Arid who may not thence know,
that in Proportion as Man {hunneth and holdeth
Evil in Averfion, in the fame Proportion he fhun;.
,
1
heth and holdeth Hell in AveHion? And who may
not thence knovr, that in Proportion as any one
fhunneth and holdeth Evil in Averfion, in the fame
Proportion he willeth and loveth Good, therefore
that in the fame Propmtion he is brought out of
Hell by the Lord, and led to Heaven ? Thefe Things
every rational Man may fee plainly, provided he
knows that there ~s a Heaven and a Hell, and that
Evil and Good have each their feparate Origin ;
now if Man refleCl:s upon E'·ils in himfelf, which. is
the fanie thi~ as to examine himfdf, and lhunneth
them; then he difengageth himfelf from Hell, and
' tafl:eth it behind him, and introduceth himfelf into
Heaven, and there feeth the Lord Face to Face;
it is faid that Man doeth this, but he only docth it
feeri1ingly from himfelf, and therefore from the
Lord. When Man acknowledgeth this Trttth from
a good Heart and pious Faith, then it lieth in-
wardly concealed in e\·ery Thing that he thinketh
and doeth afterwards as frot:l himfelf, like the pro-
lific [~'ality] in Seed, which internally accompa-
nies it even until the ProduCl:ion of new Seed ; and
like the Pleafure of Appetite for that Food which
a Man hath once found to be_falutary; in a \Vord,
it is like the Heart and Soul in every Thing· that he
'0 o o thinketh
490 ANGELIC vVrsDOM c6NCI:R1-HNC
thinl:eth and doeth. FrFTHI.Y: 'That thus the Divine
Pro'Z.'idencc neitber approtriatcs E'z:il nor Good to cmy
one, but that Ji.:!fdt'rived Prudence afpropriates both:
This follows as a Confequence of all that hath been
faid : The End of the Divine Providence is Good;
this therefore .\t intendeth in every Opera•ion ;
wherefore it doth not appropriate Good to any one,
{or thereby fuch Good wou}d become meritorious;
neicher doth it appropriate Evil to any one, for
thereby it would make him guilty of Evil: Never-
thelefs Man doeth both from his Prop;ium, becaufe
that is Nothing but Evil ; the Proprium of his
·will is Sdf-Love, and the Proprium of his Un-..
derfl:anding is the Pride of !elf-derived Intelligence1
and from the htter proceeds fdf.derived Prudence.
That every lHan may be riformed, and
that there is .nojuch Thing as Predef
tination..
322. S·OUND Reafoil diftates that AH are pre~
defl:ined to Heaven, and none -to Hell;
for all are born Men, and thence the Image of God
is in them ; the Image of God in tnem confifl:s in
their being able to uhderfl:antl Truth, and to do
Good; to be abl~ to· under.!l:and Truth is from the
Divine Wifdom, and to be able to do Good is from
the Divine Love; this Power is the Image of God~
w·h:ch abideth in a Man of found lVJind, and is not
eradi·:ated ; hence it is, that he can be made .a civil
and
Tnn DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 49l
and moral Man, and he who is a civil and moral
l\lan, the fam~ can alfo be made fpiritual, for what
is civil and moral is the Receptacle of whz.t is fpirit-
pal ; he is called a civil Man, who k11oweth the
l.aws of his .Kingdom whereof he is a Citizen, and
liveth according ro them ; and he is called a mora~
Man, who mal;:.eth thofe Law!i his Morals, and his
Virtues, and liv~th conform;tbly to them from Rea-
fon. I \vill now tell you how civil and moral Life
is a Receptade of fpiritual Life; live according
to thofe L11.ws not only c()nfidered as ciril and
moral Laws, but alfo as Divine La,vs, and you will
'be a fpiritual Man. Th~re fcarcely ~xifls a Nation
fo barbarous, as not to have g~ven the SanB:ion of
its Laws to the Prohibition again!l: committing
Murder, corrppting the Wife of aP.other, i1:ealing2
falfe Teftimony, and the \'iolation of whatever be-.
longs to another; thefe Laws the civil and mora\
Man obferves, in Order tha,t he may be, or feem to
be, a good Citizen ; but if he doth not at the fame
Time confid.er thefe Laws as Divine~ he is oniy a.
<;ivil and moral natural Man, wherc::ts if he confiders
t.hem as Divine, h~ becomes a civil ~md 1.nor::ll fpirit-
ual Man; the Difference is, th{lt the latter is not
only a good Citizen of an earthly Kingdom, but
alfo a good Citizen of the heavenly Kingdom,
whereas. the f.ormer is a good Citizen of an earthly
}\ingdom, but not of the heavenly Kingdom : The
Goods which tllt)" do, diftinguifh them ; the Goods
\!lhich ci\·il and mor:ll r.:::tural Men do, are not
yoods in themfelvt:;,, for the Man ~,.nd the ·worid
~~ in them; 'vbereas the Good;;, which civil and
woral fpiritual Mea do, are in thec1iclves Goods,_
becaufe
49~ ANGELIC \VlSDOM CONC'!RNIN~
becaufe the Lord and Heaven is in them. Hence it iS:
~vident that every Man, fince he is born fuch that he
can be made :;\ civil and moral nat~ral Man, is alfo
porn fuch as that he can be made a civil and mora~
fpiritual Man; it ~s only acknov.-ledging God,~nd not
doingEvils bec~pfe theyare in Oppofition to God,but
doing Good becaufe it is in Favour of God ; hereby.
Spirit entqcth intoMan's civiland moral At'tions, and
1hey receive ~if~; but without it, th~re is no Spiri~
in them,. a~d therefore they have nq Life; where~
fore the natural Man, however civilly and morally
l-le may aCt, ~s called dead, but the fpiritual Man iS;
~alled alive~ lt is of the Divine Providence of the
Lord, that every Nation hath fame Religion, and;
the Foundation of all Re1igion is an Acknm,
dedg'!.
~nent that ther.: is a God, for otherwife it is not
~alled a Religion; and every Nation, which li\res,
according to its. Rel.igion, that ~s, wh.ich do~h not do.
Evil becaufe it is againft its God, rec.ei_vetl~. Some-
thing fpiritual into. its natural Principle. ·what
Pcrfon, when ~e heareth any Gel,ltile. fay, he wil\
not do this or tha~ becaufe it is againll his G.od~
doth not fay within himfelf, Will not this Man be
faved ? ~t appears as if it could not be ctherwife ;
this fonnd ~eafon diCtates tq him. And on the
other Hand, what :perfon, when hr;: heareth a Chrif-:
tian fay, l f-1:-tke no Account of this or that E\·il,
'''hat doth it fignify its heing faid to be again!t: God,·
doth net fay within himfeH~ Can this Man be fared~
it appears a:l if he conld not; this alfo founJ Rea-
fan dicrates : F h~ faith, I was born a Chrillian,
bapti::>ed, know the Lord, have read the \Vord,
received the S01crament ; do thefe Things avail an)
·Thir% \l:hen he hrea~~es ]\1ur~er, or Revenge leado
in('r
- "
,
'tHE DIVJNE PROVIDENCE. 493
~ng to Murder, and doth not confider as Sins, Adul~
tery, fecret Th~ft, t".llfe Tell:imony, or Lies, and va.
rious Violences ; doth fuch a one think any Thing
cf God or of Life eternal ? Doth he think that
they have any Exifience? Doth not fQun~ Reafon
diCl:ate, that fuch a one cannot be fa\·ed? Tbefc
Things are faid of the Cbrifiian, becaufe the Gentil~
thinks more of God from R;eligion in his Life than
the Chriftian doth. But of this more fhaU be faid
below in the following Order. I. That the End
of Creation is a Heaven ot\t of the human Race.
z. That thence it is of the Divine Providence, that
~~ery Man ~s capable of being faved, a,~1d that they
are (aved, wpo acknowledge a God and lead a good
Life. 3· That it is a Man's own Fault, if he i~ not
[a,·ed. 4· That th~s all ;l.Te prcqe!l:ined to Heaven,
and none to Hell. '
323. I. That the End of Creation is a Heaven out
qfthe human Race. That Heaven doth not confill
of any others; ~han.fuch as wetJ.e born Men, is fhew~
in the ·work CQI1Cerning HEAVEN AND HELL, pub~
~i!hed at London, Anno 1758, a~d alfo above~ and
forafmuch as Heaven doth not confi!l of any others,
it follows that the End of Creation i.s a He:1vcn out
~ . . .
of the human Rae~. That this w~s the End of
Creation~ was indeed iliewn above, n. 27 to -'1·5 ;
but the fame will be feen fiill more manifellly from
an Explanation of the following Points. 1 ._ Tha~
every Man is created to liYe to Eternity. 2. That
~very Man is created to live to Eternity in a State
of Happinefs. 3· That therefore every l\1:rtl is ere-:
atcd to go to ~leaven.. 4- Th~t the Divine ~ove can-
not
494 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
/
not cfo otherwife than defire it, and that the Divine;
lVifdom cannot do otlrerwife than provide for it. ·
324. Inafmu~h as from thefe Confiderario'ns it
may alfo be feep that rhe Divine Providence is no
other Predefl:ination than to Heaven, and that neither
can it be changed into any other, it is here to be
demonfl:rated, that the End of Creation is a Heaven
out of the human Race, in the Order propofed..
FIRST: '!'hat every ]}Jan is created to. liw to Etcr-:
zzity. In the Treatife concerning THE DIVINE
LovE AND THE DIVINE vVrsnoM, P.art the Thircl
and Fifth, it is fhewn, that in Man there are three
Degrees o_
f Life, which are called natural, fpiritual,
~nd ccleftial, and that thefe Degrees are aCtually in
every one ; and tha~ in Beafts there is only one
pegree of Life, which is fimilar to the ultimate
Degree in Man, called Natural; from which it fol-:
)ows, that 1\'lan, by the Elevation of his Life to the
Lord, is capable (which Beafts :J.re not) of being.
brought into fuch a State, ~s to be able to under-
:fl:and fuch Things as are of the Divine vVifdom,.
~nd to will fuch Things as are of the Divine Love,
~onfequently to receive the Divine [Influx,] and he
who can receive the Divine [Influx,] io as to fee
and perceive it in himfelf, cannot be otherwife than
conjoined with the Lord, and from that Conjunc-
tion cannot but live to Eternity. What would the
I.ord be with all his Creation of the Univerfe, if he
had not alfo created Images and Likeneifes of him-
felf, to whom he might communicate his Divine
[Influence ?] In any other Cafe, would it not be
like making Something to be, and not to be, or tQ
exift, and not to exifl:, and this for no other Pur-.
pofc,
Tn:r:: DIVINE PROVIDENCE.
pofe, but that he might contemplate at a Difb.ncc
a mere Shifling of Scenes, and continual Variations
as upon a. Theatre ? Of what Ufe would the Divine
[Principle] be in them, unlefs it were to the End
that they might fervc ae SubjeC!:s to receive it more
Dearly, and to fee and feel it? And forafmuch as the
Divine [Being] is a Being of incxhaufl:ible Glo~y,
\vould he keep it to himfelf; or indeed could he ?
For Love wifheth to communicate its own to anoth~
er,, yea; to give as mnch of its own as it can; what
then mufl: the Divine Love do1 which is infinite ?
Can fuch Love give, and then take away again ?'
\Vould not this be to give what is to perilh; which
in itfelf is not any Thing internally1 becaufe when
it perifheth it becometh Nothing, there not being
in it that which Is ; but he giveth what Is, or what
doth not ceafe to be; and that is eternal. In Order
that every Man may live to Eternity, what is mortal
about him is taken away, viz. his material Body;
which is taken away by Death ; thus his immorta-l
Part, which is his Mind, is £tripped n~ked, and·then
he becometh a Spirit in a human Form, his Mind
being that Spirit. That the Mind of 1\Ian cannot
die, the Sages, or wife Men of Antiquity, faw very
plainly ; for they faicl, how can the Soul or 1\'Iind
die, when it has the Faculty of acquiring Wifdom?
Their interior Idea on this SubjeCt is known only
to few at thi:> Day, but it defcende,l hHo their com-
mon Perception from Heaven, and was this, that
God is \Vifdom itfelf, whereof Man is a Partaker;
and that God is immortal or eternal.· Forafmuch
as it hath been given me to converfe wjth Angels,
I will alfo relate Something on this Subject from Ex.
penence;
iience ; I have cbnverfed with fome who lived many
Ages ago, with fome who liYed before the Deluge,
and fome after the Deluge, and with fame who lived
in the Lord's Time, and with one of his ApofUes, and
··with many who lived in the fucceeding Ages, and
they ~ll feemed like Men of a middle Age, and faid
that they know not what Death is; but only that
there is fuch aTf:ing as Damnation~ Moreover all
who have led a good Life, when they gD to Heaven,
enter into their juvenil,e Age in the \Vorld, and
continue in it to Eternity, evert thofe who were old
and decrepid in the World ; and \Vomen, although
they had been \vrinkled and antiquated, return to
the Flower of their Youth and Beauty; That Man
nfter Death liveth to Eternity; is evident from the
vVord, where Life in Heaven is called Life ever.t
lafEng, as in Matthew xix. 2g. Chap; xxv. 46•
1\-Iark x. 17. Luke x. zs~ Chap. xviii. 30· John
iii. rs, I6, 36. Chap. v; 24, 25, 39; Chap. vi;
27, 40, 68. Chap. xii. so• Alfo fimply Life,
Matt. xviii. 8, 9· John v. 40. Chap. xx. 31.;'
rfhe Lord faid alfo to his Difciples, " Becaufe I live,
ye {pall live alfo," John xiv. 19 : And concerning
the RefurreCI:ion, that " God is the God of the liv.;
ing, and nbt the God of the dead ;H alfo, " that
they cannot die any more/' Luke xx. 36, 38.
SECONDLY: Tbat every Man is created ta live td
Eternity in a State of Happilz~(!, follows of Courfe ;
for he who willeth that Man fhould live to Eternityf
wilkth alfo that he fhould lh·e in a State of Happi-
nefs ; what would eternal Life be without it ? All
Love willeth or defireth the Good of another, the
l~ove of Parents defiteth the Good. of Children, the
Love
TH:t: DIVINE Pn.oVI.DENct. 49i'
loYe of the Bridegrbom and of the Hu!band de~
fireth the Good of the Bride and the ·wife, and the
Love of Friendfhip defireth the Good of Friends ;
\vhat then muft not the Divine Love do ? And
what is Good but Delight? and what Divine Good
but eternal Beatitude? All Good is called Good
from its Delight dr Beatitude : That indeed which
is given :::.nd poffdfed is called Good, but unlefs it
be allo delightful, it is fierile Good, which is not
Good in itfelf; hence it appears that eternal Life
is alfo eternal Beatitude. This State of Man is the
End and Purpofe of Creation; that they only, who
go to He~ven, are in this State; is not the Lord's
Fault; bur the Fault of .Man-; :that ·the·Fault is in
Man, will be feen in· what follows. THIRDLY :
That therefore everj Man is cre'ated to go ta Hea>um 1
This is the End of Creation ; but the Reafon why
all do not go to Heaven, is, becaufe they·imoibe the
Delights of Hell;· which arc oppofite to the Beatitude
of Heaven, and they who are not in the Beatitude
of Heaven, cannot enter into Heaven, for ·rhey.can..
not bear it. No one -who cnrers 1the fpiritml
"\iVorld~ is refufed the .Liberty ' of afcending into
Heaven·; but he who i·s i"n the Ddight of Hell;
when he ·comes there, hath a Palpitation at his_
Heart, !abouts in his breathing, begins.to lolc ail
Life, is in Anguifh and.Torment, and rolls himfelf
<!bout like a Serpent laid. before the .Fire'; this is
the Cafe, becaufe Oppofires att'oppofitely: Never~
thelefs, forafmuch as: they •~:ete born. Men, and
thereby in the Faculty of thinking and ·willing, and
confequen'tly in the Fab1hy of.fpeaking ·and aCting,
they cannot die ; but fin'cc they-cannot live wit!l
p P P <!ny ~
·49~ ANGELIC \VISD0::\-1 CONCERNING
.any others, but .thofe who are in a·fimilar Delight
Qf Life, they are fent to them ; confequent!,y they
who are in the Delights of Evil, are remanded to.
thofe who are like themfelves; and they who arc
in the Delights of Good, alfo to their like : Yea, it
is allowed every one tll be in the Delight of his Evil,
provideu he does not infeft thofe who are.in th~ De.
light of Goo9; but forafmuch.as Evil cannot do
otherwife., tha~1. infeft · Good, for in Evil there is
Hatred againfl G'nod, t~erefore left they fhould do
Mifchief, they are removed, anc.l call down into
their propet Places in Bell, where their Delight is
turned to what is.undelightful. . But this doth not
prevent Man from bf!ing by. Creation, and confe-
quently by Birth, fucb, that he may go to Beaven ;
for every -on.e goes .to Heaven who dies an Infant,
is educated and infhuB:ed there, as a Man is in the
World, and_by the Affection of Good and Truth
imbibes. V~'.ifclom, and becomes an Angel : The
fame might be the Cafe with Man, who i3 educated
and inllrutl:ed in the World,.for the fame Capabili-
ty which is in.an Infant is in him;. concerning In-
fants in the fpiritual \iV~1tld, fee: the V\Tork on HEA-'
yEN AND HELL, publi!hed in London,: ~758, n•.
329 to 345· The Reafon why the Cafe is not the
fame w·ith many in the \Vorldt is, becaufe·they love
the firfl Degree of their Life, which is cal!_ed the
natural Degree, and will not recede fro)Jl _
it and be·.
come fpiritual, and the natural Degree of Life, con-
fidered in. itfclf, loves Nothing b!Jt Self .and the
'World, for it coheres with the b9dily Senfes, which
alfo communicate with the ·world; but the fpiritu-
al Degree of. Life, . con{idered in itfelf,.l_ovetl:l the
Lord
THE DIVINE PROViDENCE. 49!1
Lord and Heaven, and alfo itfelf and the World,
but God and Heaven as fuperior, principal, and
governing, and Self and the World as inferior, in.
fi:rumental, and fubfervient. FouRTHLY: 'That
the Divine Lo'l.•e cannot do otherw!fo tban will it, and
tbat tbe Divine Wifdom cannot do othcrwift tban pro·
videfor it.- That the Divine Effence is Divine Love
and Divine \Vifdom, was fully fhewn in the Trea-
tife concerningTHEDlVINE LovE AND THE DIVINE
\VISDOM ; it is alfo demonfl:rated there, n. 358 to
370, that in every hup1an Embryo the Lord for:neth
two Receptacles, one of the Divine Love and the
other of the Divine \Vifdom, the Receptacle of Di-
vine Love for the future Will of Man, and the Re-
ceptacle of Divine \Vifdom for_his future Under...
fi:anding ; and that thus he hath endued every Man
with a Faculty of willing Godd, aryd a Faculty ofun-
derfi:andingTruth. Now forafmuch ::s th~f.~ two Fac..·
ultiesofMan are givenhimfroo1 his Birthby the Lord;
and thence the Lord is in tliem,as in his O\Vn in l\1an,
it is evident that his Divine Love cannot will oth~r­
wife, than that Man !hould go to Heaven, and there
enjoy eternal Beatitude; and alfo that his Divine
\Vifdom cannot do otherwife than provide for it.
But forafmuch as it is of his Divine Love, ,that
Man !hould feel heavenly Beatitude in himfelfas his
own, and this cannot be done, unlefs Man is per-
feCtly kept in the Appearance, that he thinks, \\'ills,
fpeaks, and aCts from himfelt~ therefore he cannot
lead l\1an any otherwifc than according to the Laws
of his Divine P~ovidence.
325. II. Tbat ~~~encc it is oftheDivine Providence
that every Man is capable of beingfa·ved, and that tbey
.,
are
SO(! ANGELIC \VISDOM CONC:ERNIN~
r;reJavedwho ackm<-J.!Icdge a·God, and leada good Lifo·~
That eV.(!ry one is capable of being faved, is evi~
deilt from ·what hath been demonflrated ?-bove!
Some are of Opinion, that the Church of the Lorq
is only in the Chrifl:ian \Vorld~ becaufe the Lord
is only known there, and the W o•·d is there only ;,
but yet there are many who believe, that the Church
of God is common, or extended and fpread over the·
whale Earth, confequently among thofe likev,·ife who.
are ignorant of the Lord, and have n"
ot the \Vord ~
urging, that this is not their Fault, and that there
~s no Help for their Ignorance ; and that it is not
confifi:ent with the-Love and Mercy of the Lord,
that any one f11ould be born for Hell, \vhen never-
thelefs they are equally Men as well as others. Now.
forafm.uch as there is a Belief among Chrifiians, if
not ampng all, yet among many, that the Church
is common~ which alfo is called a Communion,
it follows~ that there are fome very common or
general [Eifentials} of the Church, which are
Ingredients in all Religions, and confl:itute that
Communion : That thefe mofi: common or gencrat
[Eifentials] are the Acknowledgment of a God, and
Good,of Life,. will be feen in the following Order.
I. That the Acknowledgment of a God caufeth a
ConjunCtion of God with Man, and of Man with
God, and that the Negation of a God caufcth <l:
DisjunCtion. 2. That ev~ry ~me ack.nowledgeth,
God, and is joined unto him, according to the Good:
of his Life. 3~ That the Good of Life, or to live
well, is to iliun Evils becaufe they are contrary to.
·. ~el~gion, therefore againft_ Go.d. 4:·. That ~hef~
are
THE DIVINE PROVIDENC~. _50l
~re the common [Effentials] of all Religions, by
'?lhich every one may be faveJ,
326. But thcfe Propofition;; are to be viewed and
clemonfl:ratcd feparately. I. 'lhat the Acknow!edg·
mmt ofa God cm~.fi:tb a Co11jun8ion ofGod1.vith Man,
and of A1an witb God, and that the Denial ofa God
faifetb a Disjun8ion. Some may think, that they
can alike be faved who"do not :!cknowledge a God,
as they who do, provided they lead a moral Life;
faying, what does Acknowledgment lignify? Doe~
it not confift i~ Thought only ? Cannot I eafily ac..,
knowledge, when I know for certain, that there is a
God? I have heard of Him, but I never faw Him ;
Jet me fee Him, and I will believe. Such is the
Language of many who deny God, \vhen it is
permitted them to reafon freely with one who ac-
knowledgeth God. But that the Acknowledgment
()[a God conjoins, and the Denial of a God fepa-
:rates, ihall be illuftrated by fome Particulars known
to me in the fpiritu;JJ World: In that ·world, when
any one tbinb ofanother, and defires to fpeak with
him, the other immediately is prefent; this. is com~
mon in the fpiritual World, and never fails; the
R:eafon is, becaufe in the fpiritual World there is no
Difl:ance, as in the natural \Vorld, but only an Ap-
pearance of Difrance. Another Particular is, that as
Thought f~om fome Knowledge of another caufeth
his Prefence, fo Love from fame AffeCtion for an..
other caufeth ConjunCtion with him, whereby it
~ames to pafs that they go together and converfe in
a friendly Manner, and dwell in one Haufe, or in
one Society, and often meet, and do mutual good
Qffices to each other : The Reverf~ alfo takes Place,
m
502. ANGELIC \VISDOM CO.NCERNING
in that he who doth not love another, and mo"re ef.
pecially he who hateth another, doth not fee or meet
him, and the Difl:ance between them is in Proper~
tion to the D egree in which there is a \Vant of Love,
or in which Hatred prevails; yea, if he is prefent,
and then remembers his Hatred, he becometh invif-
ible. From thefe Particulars it may appear, what is
the Caufe of Prefence, and what the Caufe of Con-
junCtion in the fpiritual World, namely,that Prefence
proceeds from Remembrance of another with a De-
fire to fee him, and that ConjunB:ion.proceeds from
the AffeCtion which is· of Love. It is the fame,
with all Things which are in the human Mind;·
therein are Things innumerable, and all the Partic-
ulars there are confociated or conjoined according
to Affetl:ions, or as one l;'hing· loves another.
This Conjunt.l:ion is fpiritual Conjuntl:ion, which is
like itfelf both in Things common, and in Things
particular : This fpiritual Conjuntl:ion delive~ irs.Ori-·
gin from the Conjunaion of the Lord with the ipir. •
itual. \:Vorld, and the natural \Vorld, in common
...and in particular; from which Confideration it is
evident, that in Proportion as any one.acknowledg.
eth the Lord, and thinketh of him from Knowledg·
es, in the fame Proportion the Lord is prefent; and
in Proportion as any one acknowledgeth him from
the AffeClion of Love, in the fame Proportion the
I.ord is conjoined with him; and on the contrary,
that in Proporticm as any one doth not acknowledge
the Lord, in the fame Proportion the Lord is ab...-·
fent, and that in Proportion as any one denieth him,
in the fame Proportion he is di~oined or feparated
from him. ConjunClion caufeth the Lord to turn
the
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 503
Face of Man to hinifclf, and then ~o lead him ; and
Disjunaion caufeth Hell to turn the Face of Man
to itfelf, and to lead him : \Vherefore all the An-
gels of Hea\·en .turn their Faces to the Lord as the
Sun, and all the Spirits of Hell turn away their Faces
from the Lord. Hence it is evident what is the Ef-
feCt produced by the .Acknowledgment of a God,
and what by the Denial of a God. And they wh •
deny God in the \~Forld, deny him after Death, and
become organized according to the Defcription
above, n. 319 ;. and the Organization induced in
the \Vorld remains to Eternity. SECONDLY :
. Tbat e'l.-•ery one acknowledgcth God, and is conjoined
·with bim, according to the Good ofbis Life: All who
know·any Thing of Religion, niay kno\v God;
they c::.n .alfo fpcak of God from Science or tlie
1\lernory, and fome even,, think of God from the
Under!b.nding; but this,. unlefs a l\'lan leads a
good Life, produces Nothing but Prefence, for he
can nevenhelefs turn llimfelf from God, and turn
himfelf to Hell, which is the Cafe if he leads a bad
Life. But no others can acknowledge God in their
Hearts, except thofe who lead a good· Life; thefe,
according to the Good·of their Life, the Lord turn-
eth away froh1 Hell, and turneth to himfelf; the
Reafon is, becaufe rhefe alone love God, for they
lo\'e Divine Things which are from him, by doing
them ; the Divine Things which are from God, are
the Precepts of his Law; thefe are God, becaufe
He is his own proceeding Divine, and this is to love
God; wherefore the Lord faith, " He that doeth
my Commandments, he it is that lo·:eth me; but
he that doeth not my Commandments, lovcth m~
net,"
..
JO.'J. ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNJi.Uj
hot," Jofui :-;iv. zI to i4; This is the Reafon why
there are two Tables of the Decalogue; one fof
God; and the other for Man; God continually op~
crates, that Man may receive the Things which are
in his Table, but if Man doeth not the Things whi~h
are in his Table, he doth not receive with Acknowl=
edgment of Heart the Things which are in God's
Table; and if he doth not receive them, he is not
conjoined; wherefore thofe two Tables were joined
together, that they might be one, and were tailed
the Tables of the Covenant, and Covenant fignifie~
Conjuncrion. The Reafon why every one acknowl.;.
edgeth God, and is conjoined with him accotding
to the Good of his Life, is,,becaufe Good of Life i:> •
fimilar to the Good which is in the Lord~ and
which therefore is from the Lord ; wherefore \vhen
Man is in the Good of Life, Conjunttion is efreCl:ed.
It is the contrary with Evil of Life; this rejeB:eth
the-Lord, THIRDLY: '!'hat Good ofLift, cr to live
•well, . is to jhtm Evils becdufe they. are contrary t~
Rclition~ therefore agailyl God : That this is Good
of Life, or to live well; is fully fhewn in THE Doc.;
I
TRIN.E oF LIFE J:.'OR THE NEw jERUSALEM, from
Beginning to End.' To which I will only add, that
if you do Good in ail Abundance, for Example, if
you build Churches, adorn and fill rhem with Dona-
tions, lay out Money in Hofpitals and Charities, give
Alms daily, help Widows and Orphans, regularly
perform the Ceremonies of Divine \Vorfhip, yea;
if you think,fpeak, and preach Things holy as from
the Heart, and yet do not fhun Evils as Sins againfl:
God, all thofe Goods are not Goods, but are either
hypocritical or meritoriol,ls ; for there is inwardly
Evil
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. sos
Evil in them notwithfl:anding, inafmuch as the Life
~f every one is in all and every Thing that he doeth :
But Goods are no otherwife made Goods, than by
the Removal of Evil from them. Hence it is evi-
aent, that to iliun Evils becaufe they are contrary
to Religion, and therefore againO: God, is to live
well~ FouRTHLY: 'That tbefe are con_zmon [E:ffen-
tials] ofall Religions, by 'l.vbich every one may beJaved.
:ro acknowledge a God, and not to clo Evil becaufe
it is againO: God, are two Things by Virtue of which
Religion ~s Religion ; if one of them is wanting, it
cannot be called Religion, for to acknowledge a
God and to do Evil, is contradiCtory, as well as to
do Good and not to acknowledge a God~ for one
doth not take Place without the other. It is pro-
Vided by the Lord, that there is· fame Religion
almofl every where, and that in every Religion
there are thefe two Effentials; and it is <llfo provi-
ded by the Lord, that every one who acknowledg-
eth a God, and doth not do Evil becaufe it is againil
God, hath a Place in Heaven ; for Heaven in the
Complex refembles one Man, whofe Life or Soul
the Lord is ; in that celeftial Man there are all
Things which arc in a natural 1\Ian, with fuch a.
Difference as cxifi:s between Things celeflial and
natural. It is well known, that in a Man there are
not only organized Thrms, confifl:ing of Blood-Vef-·
fels and nervous Fibres, which are called Vifcera,
but there are alfo Sl~ins, Membranes, Tendons.
Cartilages, Bones, Nails, and Teeth; thefc have Lift:
in a lefs Degree than the organized Forms them•
felves, to which they ferYe as Ligaments, Teguments,
and Supports: That celefl:ial Man, which is Heav'"
Q_Q_ q en,
506 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
en, in Order that there may be all thefe Parts in
him, cannot be compofed of Men of one Religion,
but of Men of many Religions ; hence it is, that all
r:ho apply to their Lives thofe two Univerfa!s of
the Church, have a Place in that cclcflial l\1an, that
is, in Hea,'en, and there enjoy Felicity, each in his
Degree ; but on this Subjeft fee more above, n.
254· That thefe two E11entialS are primary in eYery
Religion, may appear from their being the two
Eflentials which the Decalogue teacheth, and the
Decalogue 'vas primary in the WorJ [ Primum Verbi,]
and was promulgated from Mount Sinai by Jehovah
':Jtvit •voce, and written upon two Tables of Stone
by the Finger of God, and then being depofited in
the Ark it was called Jehovah, and conflituted the
Holy of Holie3 in the Tabernacle, and the moll:
facrcd Place in the Temple at Jerufalem, and all
Things there derived their Sanetity from it alone ;
concerning the Decalogue in the Ark, more may
be feen from the Vvord in TnE DocTRE"E oF LIFe
FOR THE NEW jERUSALEM, 11. 53 to 6 I ; to which
I 'viii add as follows: It is known from the \Vord
that the Ark, in which were the two Tables, where~
upon the Decalogue was written, was taken by the
Philifiines, and placed in the Temple of Dagon in
Afl1dod, and that Dagon fell down before it to the
Earth, and that afterwards his Head and the Palm$
of his Hands were feparated from his Body, ~nd
lay upon the Threfhold of the Temple; and that
the A!hdmiites and Ekronites by Reafon of the Ark
were fmitten with Emerods to the Number of fev-
er::ll Thoufa!lds, and that their Country was wafted
by Mice; alfo, th:tt the Philiitincs, by th~ Advice
of
TIIE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. so;
Clf the Chiefs of their Nation, made fisc Emerods,
and fin: golden l\lice, and a ne\v yarr, and fet the
Ark upon it, and the Emcrods and golden Mice
befide it, and fent back the Ark by two Kin~, which
lowed in the vVay before the /uk, to the Children
of If;·ael, by whom the Kine and the Cart were fac-
rificed ; fee I Sam. Chap. v. and Yi. It fhall now
be fhe\vn what all thefc Particulars fignificd : The
Phili!l:ines fignified thofe who arc in Faith fepar~te
from Charity ; Dagon reprefented their Religion ;
the Emcrods, whereby they were fmitten, fignified
natur:1l LO\'es, which \vhen feparated from fpirirual
Love are unclean; the Mice fignifi-ed the Devafl:a-
tion of the Church by Falfifications of Truth ; the
new Cart upon which they fent back the Ark, fig-
;;ified new, but natural DoB:rine, for Chariot i~1
the V\Tord fignifies Dotl:rine grounded in fpiriru.al
Truths ; the Kine fignificd good natural AffcCl:ions ;
the golden Emcrods lignified natural Lo\·es purified
and made good ; - the golden 1\'1ice fignified the
Vafl:ation of th.e Chu!"ch removed by Good, for
Gold in the \iVord lignifies Good ; the Lowing of
the Kine in the \Vay, fignifiecl the difficult Conver-
iion of the Concupifcences of EYil in the natural
1\lan into good AffeCtions ; the offering the Kine
\vith the Cart as a Bumt-Offeri:1g, lignified that
thus Atonement would be made to the Lord.
Thefe are the Things which are fpiritually me::nt
by thofe hifl:orical FaCts ; conneCt them into one
Senfc, and make the Application. That by the
Philifl:ines are reprefented thofe \Yho ~re in Faith
fcparate from Charity, 1;1ay be feen in THE Doc-
TRINE 0~ TII.E Nnv jERUSALEl\1 CONCERNING
FAITH,
508 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNING
FAITH, n. 49 to 54· And that the Ark, by Reafon
of the Decalogue therein contained, was the mofi:
holy Thing of the Church, fee THE DocTRINE OF
LIFE FOR THE NEw ]ERUS_I\LEM, n. 53 to 61.
32 7. III. 'That it is a Afan~s c.wn Fault, if he is
notjmJed. This Truth is acknowledged by every
rational Man as foon as it is beard, viz. that Evil
cannot flow from Good, nor Oood ftom Evil, be-
caufe they are Oppofites ; confequently, that from
G ood Nothing but Good can flow, and from Evil
Nothing bu~ Evil: ·when this Truth is acknowl-
edged, the following is acknowledged alfo, viz. that
Good can be turned into Evil, not by a good but
by an evil Recipient, for eycry Form turneth what
is influent into its own ~ality, fee above, n. 292.
Now forafmuch as the Lord is Good in its very
Effence, or Good itfelf, it is evident that Evil can..
J?.Ot flow from the Lord, nor be produced by him,
but that it can be turned into Evil by a Recipient
SubjeCt, whofe Form is a Form of Evil: Such a
SubjeCt is Man with Refpeft to his Proprium ; this
continually receives Good from the Lord, and con.
tinually turns it into the ~ality of its Form, which
is a Form of Evil : Hence it follows, that it is a
Man's O\~n Fault if he is not faved. E\:il is indeed
from Hell, but forafmuch as he receives it thence
as his own, and thereby appropriates it to himfelf,
therefore it makes no Difference whether you fay
that Evil is from Man, or that Evil is from Hel1,
J3ut whence there is an Appropriation of Evil in
fuch a Degree that Religion perifheth, fhall be
fhewn in the following Series. I. That every Re-:
~igion in ~ro~efs ofTime decreafeth and is confum..
·· mated.
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. S09
mated. 2. That Every Religion decreafeth and is
confummated by an Invcrfion of the Image of God
in Man. 3· That this exif!:s from continual Incre..
ments of hereditary Evil in fuccefiiYe Generations.
4· That !1:ill it is provided by the Lord, that every
one may be capable of being faved. 5· That it is
alfo provided, that a new Church may fucceed in
place of the Former vafl:ated Church.
328. But thefe Propofitions are to be demonfira-
ted in their Series. FIRST : That'every Religion in
Prccefi of 'Time decr-eaflth and is corifummated. Up-
o~l this Earth there have been feveral Churches,
one after another, inafmuch as wherefoever the hu-
man Race exifl:s, there a Church exifl:s ; for Heav-
en, which is the End of Creation, confif!:s of the
human Race, as was demonflrated above, and no
one can enter into Heaven, unlefs he be in the two
Univerfals of the Church, which confifis in acknowl-
edging a God, and leading a good Life, as is £hewn
above, n. 326 ; hence it follows, that upon this
Earth there have been Churches from the mofl: an-
dent Times down to the prefent. Thefe Churches
are defcribed in the Word, but not hifl::orically, ex-
cept only the Ifraelitifh and Jewifh Church, before
wkich neverthelefs there exifl:ed feveral, and thefe
are only defcrib~d in the vVord under the Names
of Nations and Perfons, and certain Particulars con-
ce,rning them. The mofl: ancient Church, which
was the Firft, is defcribed by Adam and his vVife
Eve. The ·fucceeding Church, which is to be call-
ed the Ancient Church, is defcribed by Noah and
his three Sons, and by their Po:f!:erity ; this was ex-
\enfive and fpread oyer many Kingdoms of Afia,
which
510 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING
which were the Land of Canaan on both Sides Jor.
dan, Syria, Affyria, and Chald~a, Mefopotomia, E.
gypt, Arabia, Tyre, and Siqon; among thefe was
.the ancient 'Word, mentioned in THE DocTRINE oF
THE NEW jERUSALEM CONCERNING THE SACRED
ScRIPTURE, n. Iol, 102, 103. That that Church
exifted in thefe Kingdoms, is evident from various
Particulars which are recorded concerning them in
the prophetic Parts of the \fi.Tord. But that Chu.rch
was remarkably·changed by Eber, from whom the
Hebrew Church had its Origin; in the latter facri-
ficial Worfhip was firfl: infl:ituted. From the Hebrew
Church fprung the Ifraelitifh and Je,vilh Church,
efl:ablifhed with much Solemnity for the Sake of the_
\Vord, which was there to be written. Thefe four
Churches are meant by the Image feen by Nebu-
chadnezzar in a Dream, whofe Head was of pure
Gold, the Breaft and Arms of Silver, the Belly and
Thighs of Brafs, and the Legs and Feet of Iron and
Clay, Dan. ii. 32, 33· Neither is any Thing elfe
meant by the golden, filver, copper, and iron Ages
mentioned by ancient \Vriters. That the Chrifl:ian
Church fucceeded the Jewiih Church, is well known;
and it may be feen from the 'Vord, that all thefe
Churches in Procefs of Time declined, till there \vas
an End of them, which is called the Confumma-
tion. The Confummation of th.e moll ancient
Church) which was occafioned by eating of the Tree
of Knowledge, whereby is fignified the Pride of felf-
derived Intelligence, is defcribed by the Deluge.
The Confummation of the Ancient Church is de-
fcribed by various Devafl:ations of the Nations treat-
ed of, as \Veil in the hifl:orical, as in the prophetic
Parts
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 5 I I
Parts ofthe Word, efpecially by the cafl:ing out ofthe
Nations from the L;md of Canaan by the Children
of Ifrael. The Confummation of the Ifraelitifh and
Jewiili Church is underfl:ood by the Defl:ruelion of
the Temple at Jerufalem, and by the carrying away
of the Ifraelitin1 People into perpetual Captivity, and
of the Jewilh Nation to Babylon; and lafUy by the
fecond Deflrutl:ion of the Temple, and at the fame
Time of Jerufalem, and the· Dilperfion of that Na-
tion; which Confummation is foretold in many
Places in the P~ophet-s, and in Daniel, Chap. ix. 24
to 27. But the fucceffive Vafl:ation of the Chrif-
~ian Church to its final Period, is defcribed by the
Lord in Matthew, Chap. xxiv. in Mark, Chap. xiii.
and in· Luke, Chap. xxi ; and the Confummation
itfelf in the Apocalypfe. Hence it may appear,
that the Church in P.rocefs of Time decreafeth and
is confummated ; and that it is the fame with Reli-
gion. SECONDLY: That every Religion decreafetb
and is confummated by an lnvet}ion ofthe Image ofGod
in ll.fan. It is well known that Man was created in
the Image of God according to the Likenefs of God,
Genefis i. 26 ; but it fhall be explained what an Im-
age of God is, and what a Likenefs of God: God
alone is Love and Wifdom ; Man was created that
he might be a Receptacle of both; that his '\Vill
might be a Receptacle of Divine Love, and his Un-
derfl:anding a Receptacle of Divine Wifdom. That
1hefe two Principles from Creation are in l\1an, and
that they make the Man, and that they are alfo form-
ed in every onein the vVomb, was !hewn above; Man
therefore is an Image of God, in that he is a Recipi-
ent ofDivine \Vifdom, and a Li.kenefs ofGod, in that
heisa Recipient of Divne Love.; whereforethe Recep-
tacle
SI2 ANGELIC \VISDOM CO!TCER.lUNG
tacle which is called the Undcrfl:anding, is an Im~
age of God, and the Receptacle which i$ called
the \Vill, is a Likenefs of God ; therefore fincc
Man was created and formed to be a Receptacle, it
follows, that he was created and formed, that his
·will might receive Love from God, and his Under.
franding \Vifdom from God; which alfo Man re.
ceiveth, when he acknowledgeth God, and liveth ac~
cording to his Commandments~ but in a greater or
leifer Degree, in Proportion as by Religion he know.
eth God, and knoweth his Commandments ; confe•
quently in Proportion as he knoweth Truths; for
Truths teach what God is, and how he is to be ac.o
knowledged; as alfo what his Commandments are;
and how ¥an is to live according to them. The
Image of God; and the Likenefs of God, are not ac.
tually defl:royed in Man, but they are feemingly de.
firoyed ; for they remain inherent in his two Facul..;
ties, which are called Liberty and Rationality, which
have been abundantly treated of above : They be.s
came feemingly dellroyed, when Man made the Re:.
ceptacle of the Divine Love, which is his \Viii, a
Receptacle of Self.Love, and the Receptacle of the
Divine Wifdom, which is his Underfl:anding, a Re-
ceptacle of felf-derived Intelligence; thereby he in.
verted the Image and Likenefs of God, for he turned
thofe Receptacles away from God, and turned them
to himfelf: Hence it is, that they are clofed above,
and. opened below, or that they are clofed before,
and opened behind, when neverthelefs by Creation
they were open before, and clofed behind ; and
when they are thus inverfely opened. and clofed,
then the Receptacle of Love or the 'Vill receives
Influx
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 5 IJ
7
Jnflux fr·om Hell, or from its Proprium, and fo
does the Receptacle of vVifdom alfo, or the Under-
Handing. Hence the \Vorfhip of Men al'ofe in the
Churches, infl:ead ofthe \Vorfhip ofGod, and Wor-
fhip grounded in DoB:rines of what is falfe, inftead
of \Vor!hip grounded in DoB:rines of Truth, the lat-
ter from [elf-derived Intelligence, the fClrmer from
Self-Love~ From thcfe Conficlerations it is evi-
dent., that Religion in Frocefs of Time decreafeth
an'd is confummated by an Invcrfion of the Image
of God in l\1an. THIRDLY: 'That this c."(ifls from
continual Incrcmcn~s of hereditary Evil in fucajji'/.,·c
Gcncrationr. That hereditary Evil is not from
Adam and his Wife Eve, in Confequence of their
eating of the Tree of Knowledge, but-that it is fuc-
ceffively derived from Parents, and t-ranfplanted in-
t.o their Offspring, and fo by continual Increments
is augmented from Generation to Generation,.was
faid and fhewn above. \Vhen Evil is thereby ac-
cumulated among many, then it fprcads and ex-
tends itfelf to others; for in all Evil there is a Lufi:
of feducing, which in fome is ardent by Reafon of
their Rage againft what is good, and thence proceeds
the Contagion of Evil; when this has invaded the
Dignitaries, Rulers, and leading Men in the Church,
Religion is perverted, and the Means of Cure, which
are Truths, are corrupted by Falfifications ; hence
proceed in. fuch Cafe the fucceffive Vafl:ations of
Good, and Defolation of Truth in the Church, un..
til the Conft.immaticn is complete. FouRTHJ.Y :
T hat n<
''u:rthclcfs it is provided by tbc Lord, that C7.•e-
ry one may be capable ofbeing Javed. It is provi9ed
~y the Lord that there fhould be a Religion every
R R. r where,
514 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCETI.NI~G
.;vhere, and that in every Religion there fhould be
the two E11emials of Salvation, which confi!l: in ac-
knowledging a God, and in not doing Evil becaufe
!t is o.gain!l: GnJ; other Things appertaining to the
Undcrfl:ancling, and thence to the Thought, which
are called l.Vbtters o(Faith, :u-e proYided for every
one according to his Life, for they are Acceifories
to Life; and if they precede, frill they do not re-
ceive Life before. It is alfo provided, that all who
have lived \Yell, and acknowledged a God, fhould be
inlhuCl:ed after Death by the Angels, and then they
who had been in thcfe t'vo Elfentials of Religion in
this ·world, accept the 'Truths of tbe Church, fuch
as they are in the Vvortl, and acknowledge the
• Lord as:the God of Heaven and the Church ; and
this :Doctrine they receive more rea·dily than thofe
Chriflians, who have carried out of the World with
them an Idea of the Lord's Hum:mity feparate fram
his Divinity. It is moreover provided by the Lord,
that all who die in· their Infancy, whcrefoever they
may be born, {hould be faveJ. There is alfo giYen
to every Man after Death an Opportunity ofamend-
ing his Life, if poilible; all are inflrucred and led of
the Lord by Angels, and forafmuch as they then
know that they are living after Death, and'that there
are fuch Places as Heaven and Hell, at firH: they re-
cei\'C Truth~·; but they who have not acknmdedg-
ed a God, and fhunned Eviis as Sim in this World,
111 a lhort Time after are difguftcd with Truths, and
recede; and they who have acknowledged them
with their Mouths, aJ1d not in their Hearts, are· like
the foolifh Virgins, whith harl Lamps, but no Oil,
and fotl[>;ht Oil of others, and moreover \vent and
bought
I
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 5 lj
bought it, and yet were not admitted to the l\lar-
rbge: Lamps f1gnii~· Tniths of Faith, and Oil fig-
ni11cs Good of Charity. Hence it may appear,
that by a Law of the Divi11e Providence every one
is capable of being J:nnl, .and that it is a Man's own
F'auit if he is not faved. FIFTHLY: 'That it is affo
provided that a New Churcb jbouldJucreed in Place of
tbe former ·vaflatcd Ch.urcb. This hath been the
Cafe from the moft ancient Times, viz. that when
a former Church was vafl:ated, a new oae fucceeded;
after the molt ancient Church the Ancient Church
fuccccdcd; after the .Aucient Church .the lfraclitifh
or Jewiih Church; after that the Chrifl:ia1i Church;
moreover that after this laft a New Chm1ch will
fucceed, is foretold in the Apocalypfe, which Church
is there meant by the New Jerufalcm defccnding
from Heaven. The Reafoa whv a New Church is
provided by the Lord to fucceed 'the former vafbtcd
Church, may be feen in THE DocTRINE OF THE
NEW jERUSALEM CONCERNI~G TI-lE SACRED
ScRIPTURE, n. 104 to rr3.
329. IV. 'That tbus all are predtjlil?ed to Heaven,
and none to Hell. That the Lord. cafl:eth none into
IIell, but that the Spirit ca!ls himfclf thither, is
fhewn in the \iVork concerning HE"\7r:N ,\ND liEu,,
publiil1ed in London, AmiO I 7sS, n. 5-i·S to sso :
This is the Cafe with every wicked and impious
perfon after Death ; it is the fame wi~h the \Vickcd
and Impi01:s in this \Vvrld, with this Difltnnce,
that in this World they may be reformed, r~nd em-
brace :111d imbibe the Means of Salvarion, but noue
after their Departure out of the WorlJ. The
Heans of Saivation relate to theE~ two Things, the
C'' •
ul1U11nii13"
51~ ANGELIC \VISDO.M CONCERNING
Shunning of Evils bccaufe they are conlrary to th~
Divine Laws in the Decalogue\ and the Acknowl~
edgn~ent that there is a Go.d :. This every one may
do, provided he doth not love Evils ; for the Lord
floweth continually with Power into the \Viii, that
he may be able to !hun Evils; and with PDwcr into.
the Undcrfl:anding, th~t he may be able to think
that there i:> a God ; but yet no. Perfon cnn du
the one without doing the other at the fame
Time : Thefe two Things are joined together like
the two Tables of the Decalogue; •whereof one is
for the Lord, and the other for Man ; the Lord
from his Table illuminates every one, and giveth
Power, but in Proportion as. Man daeth the Things
which are in his own Table, in the fame Proportion
he rcceiveth Po\ver and Illumination ; before thi~
the tw; appear as if th~y were laid upon one another
and fealed up, but as Man doeth the. Things which
are in his Table, they are difclofed 01nd ~pened.
\Vhat is the Deca.logQe at this.Day, but lik~ a Bopk
tl:at is fhut, and open only in the H~mds of lnfants_
and Children? Tell any one who is of an advanced
.~-'\ge, you mufl not do fU«;:h a Thing, beca\lfe it is
~ontrary to the Decalogue, and who <lttend3,to you?
But if you fay, do not do fuch a Thing bec;aufe it
is contrary to the Di\'ine Lav~s, this he can attend
-- to, when neverthelefs. the Precept:> of the D c:calog\tt;.
arc the very effential Divine L;.tws : An E:(;:p~riment
was made with feveral i,n the fpiritual \V9rld, \vho,
when the Decalogue or Catechifm -was I:~peated,
rejeCted it with Contempt; the R eafon is, beC4\lfe
th~ Decal?gue i~ i_
tg fecond Table, ;·:hich i~ the ·
Table
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 517
~fable of 1\hn, teacheth, that Evils are to b~ fhun-
ned, and he who doth not fhun them, whether from
Impiety, or from a religious Notion that ·works are
of no Avail, but only Faith, when the Decalogue
or Catechifm is repeated, hears it with fome Con-
tempt, as though he heard Mention made of fome
Child~s Book, which is no longer of any Ufe to
him. Thefe Particulars are mentioned in Order
that it may be known, that there is not war.ting to
any Man a Knowledge of the Means whe!"eby he
may be faveJ, nor the Power of being faved if he
will ; from which it follows, that all are predcfiined
or intended for Heaven, and none for Hell. But
forafmuch as there prevails among fome a Belief in
· Predeftination to no Salvation, which is Predefiina-
tion to Damnation, and fuch a Belief is hurtful,
and cannot be difpelled, unlefs Reafon alfo fees the
Madnefs and Cruelty of it, therefore it fhall be treat-
ed of in the following Series. I. That any other
Predefiination, than Predefiination to Heaven, is
contra,ry to the Divine Love and its Infinity. n
That any other Prcdefiination, than Predefi.ination
to He.aven, is contrary to the Divine Wifdom and
its Infinity. 3· That it is an infanc Herefy, to iup-
pofe that they only are faved 'who are born \vithin
the Churcb. 4· That it is a cruel Herefy, to fup-
pofe that :my of the human Race are predellined tO
be damned.
330. But that it may appear ho·.v hurtful a Faith
in Predeflination is, as it is commonly undcrfi:ood,
t~1cfc four Propofitions !hall be refumed and con-
firmed. FIRST: 'That any other Predcjlination, than
J!r.edejlillllfiort. to Hcawn, is contrary to the Divin:;
L-'J~·e,
518 AN:GELIC \Vrsno.M coNcERNING
- Love, bhich is iJ!finite. That Jehovah or the Lord
is Divine Love, and that that Divine Love is infinite,
and the Ejft of all Life ; and alfo that Man was cre-
ated in the Image of God according to the Likenefs
of God, is demonflrated in the Trcatife concerning
THE DiviNE LovE AND TI-fE DIVINE \:VrsDoM :
And forafmuch as every Man is formed in the
\Vomb in that Image according to that Likenefs by
the Lord, as is alfo demonfl:rated, it follows, that
the Lord is the heavenly Father of all Men, and
that Men are his fpiritual Children ; fo alfo is Jeho-
vah or the Lord called in the "'\llord, and fo are
Men called therein ; wherefore he faith, " Call no
Man your Father upon the Earth, for one is your
Father which is in Heaven," Matt. xxiii. 9 ; where-
by it is meant that He alone is the Father with Ref-
pea to Life, and that an earthly Father is only a
Father with RefpeCl: to the Covering of Life, which
is the Body, wherefore in Heaven no other Father
is made Mention of but the Lord: That Men are
c"alled his Sons, and faid to be born of him, who
do not invert that Life, is alfo evident from many
Paifages in the \Vord. Hence it may appear, that
the Di\'ine Love is, in every Man, as well the Wick-
ed as the Good, confequently that the Lord, who
is Divine Love, cannot aCl: any otherwife with them~
than as a Father upon Earth does with his Children,
only with infinitely more Tendernefs, becaufe the
Divine Love is infinite ; alfo that he cannot rc:cede ·
from any one, becaufe the Life of every one is from
Him : It appears as if he .recedeu from the \Vicked,
whereas it is the Wicked themfclvcs who recede,
but flill he leadeth them out of Love : vVherefore
the Lord faith, " Aik, and it fhall be given you ;
feek,
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. .)19
fcck, and ye fl1all find ; knock, am!. it fhall be open.
eel unto you : \Vhat Man is there of you, whom
if his Son afk Bread, will he give him a Stone ? If .
ye then, being evil, know how to give good Gifts
unto your Children, how much more fhall your
Father which is in Heaven give good Things to
them that afk him ?" Matt. vii. 7 to 1 1 : And in
another Place, " That he maketh his Sun to rife on
the Evii and on the Good, and fendeth Rain on
t ls.e Juft and on the Unjult," Matt. v. 45· More-
over it is known in the Church, that the Lord de·
fireth the Salvation of ail, and not the Death of any.
Hence it may be feen, that any other Predefl:ination
than Predcfl:ination to Heaven is contrary to the
_Divine Lm·e. SECONDLY : 'That any other Predif-
tination, tha!z Predijlination to Hea·vcn, is contrary ta
·tbe Di·vine W!filom, which is h!finitc. The Divine
Love through its Divine "Tifdom provides Means,
whereby every Man may be faved ; therefore to fay
that there is any other Predefl:ination than Predefl:i-
nation to Heaven, is to fay that it cannot provide
Means, whereby Salvation may be cffeCl:ed, when
neverthelefs all ·are po.fftfled of the Means, as was
fhewn above, and thef~ arc from .the Divine Provi-
dence, which is infinite. But the· Reafon why
there are' feme who are not f:lVed; is, bccaufe the
Divine Love c.lcfires that Man fhould fed in himfclf
the Felicity and Blifs of Ilea\'en, for othcrwifc it
woulll be ho Heaven to him ; and this cannot be
efreae,l, unlefs it appears to Man that he tl1inketh ·
and willeth from himfelf, for without lhat Appear-
ance Nothing wou!J be appropriated to l1im, neither
would he be a M:m ; for this Rea!on there is a Di-
Ymc
5'20
\rine Providence, which is of the Divine Wifdorri
from the Divine Love. But this doth not take
~way this Truth, that all ~re predefrined or defigned
for Heaven, and none for Hell; whereas if Means
of Salvation were wan!ing, it would take it a\vay ;
neverthelefs that the Means of Salvation are provid-
ed for everv one, and that Heaven is of fuch aNa.:
. .
ture, that all, of·whatfoever Religion they be; who
live well; may have a Place there; was !hewn above;
Man is like the Earth, whi~h produceth all Kinds
cf Fruits, by Virtue of which Faculty Earth is
Earth, ~m its producing evil Fruit~ doth not take
away its Power of producing good Fruit aJfo ; it
would take it away, ho\vever, if it could only pro;
cuce evil Fruit. Man is alfo like an Objet!:; which
variegates the Rays of Light in itfelf; if it only
prefents to \the Eye difagreeable Colours~ it is not
the Fault of the Light, for the Rays of Light may
alfo be variegated fo as to produce plcafing Colours.;
THIRDLY : '!'bat to fuppife tbe_y only are Javed, who
nrc bom 7.uithin the Church, is an infane Her~fy.
They who are born without the Church, are alike
Men with thofe who are within it ; they are of a
like heavenly Origin, and are equally living and
immortal Souls; moreover they have a Religion,
whereby they acknowledge'that there is a Gbd, and
that they ought to live well, and he who acknowl-
' edgeth a God and liveth well, becometh fpiritual
in his Degree, anJ is faved, as was fhe,vn above.
It is alleged, that they arc not baptized, but Bap-
tifm doth dot fave any, except thofe \vho are fpirit..
11a1ly wafhed, that is, regenerated, for Baptifm is a
Sign and Memorial thereof. It is alleged alf9,
that
1'IIE DIVINE PROVIDENC:t::. 5 2 J.
that the Lord is not known to them, and th:lt with-
out the Lord there is no Salvation; however, no
oue hath Salvation merely by the Lord's being
known to him, but by li\·ing according to his Pre-
cepts ; and he is known to every one who acknowl•
edgeth a God, for the Lord is the God of Heave:\
and Earth, as he himfelf teacheth in 'Matt. xxviii.
18 ; and in other Pla~. Moreover they who arc
:without the Church, have mere an Idea of God as
n Man, than the Ch~iflians ; and they who have ~n
Idea of God a:> a Malt; and live well, are accepted
by the LorJ, for they acknowledge God to be one in
Perfon and in Effenc.e, which Chriftians do not do;
they alfb think of God in their Life, for they con~
fider Evils as Sins againfl God, anJ. they who .do
this, think of God in their Life. Chrifiians ha.n:
the Precepts of their Religion from the vVord, but
there arc few who draw any Precepts of Life from
it ; the Papifl:s do not re::Jd it ; and they of the Re-
formed Church, who are in · Faith fepc:rate fro!n
Charity, do not attend to thofe Things !:1 it which
relate to Life, but only to what relates to Faith, and
Jet the whole \TVord is Nothing elfe but the Doc-
trine of Life. Chrifl:ianity prevails only in Europe;
the Religion of the Mahometans and Gentiles in
Afia, the Indies, .Africa, and America; and the
human Race in the lafl mentioned Parts of the
\Vorld is ten Times more nume;·ous th::m in the
Chriflian Countries, and in the latter there are but
few, who place Religion in a good Life : \\'br
can be greater l\ladr:efs then, than to think that
the latter only arc faved, and the former condemn-
eel, and that Man poffeffeth Heaven by his Birth,
S s s and
522 ANG.ELIC \VISDOM CONCERNTN'~
and not by his Life? \Vherefore the Lord faith7
H I fay unto you, that many. {hall come from the
Eafl: and from the \Vefl:, and fhall lie down with
Abraham, Ifaac, and Jacob, in the Kingdom of
Beaven; but the Children of the Kingdom fhall be
cafl: out," Matt. viii. 1 1, r z. FouRTHLY : That trJ
Juppofe any of the human Race are predtjlined to be
damned, is n cruel Hcrcfy. For it is cruel to think,
that the Lord, who is Love itfelf and Mercy itfelf,
would fuffer fo vafl: a Multitude of Men to be born
for Hell, or that fo many Myriads of Myriads fhould
be born condemned and devoted, th<\t is, born
Devils and SataDs ; and that he would not •out of
his Divine Wifdom provide, that they who live well
and acknowledge a God, i110uld not be .cafl: into
everlafl:ing Fire and Torment; yet the Lord is the
Creator and Saviour of all, and he alone leadeth
all, and willeth not the Death of any one ; there-
fore it is cruel to think and believe, that fo great a
Multitude of Nations and People under his Aufpices
and InfpeCl:ion fhould be prede!lincd to be delivered
;tS a Prey to the Devil. •
That
TiiE DIVINE PROVIDENCI:. 523
That tlze Lord cannot aEl ac.r;ainfl the
Laws of the Divine f-rov£dence, be...
rauje to a[/; aga£nfl thern, would be to
a[/; againfl his Divine Love and his
Divine Wifilom, conjequently againfl
Himje!f
33 I. IN THE ANGELIC \VISD0!\1 CONCERNIN~
THE DiviNE LovE ANn THE DIVINE
'VrsnoJH, it is fl1ewn, that the Lord is Divine Love
and Divine \Vifdom, and that thefe two Principles
;1re the very E;!fo and Life, from which every Thing
is and lives ; moreover it is ihe\Yn, that the fame
proceedcth from Him, and that this proceeding
Divine is Himfelf: Among the Things which-pro-
ceed from Him, the Didne Providence is primary;
for this is continually in the End for which the
Univerfe was created : The Operation and Pro-
greffion of the End by its Means is what is ca!led
the Di,·ine Providence. Now forafmuch as the
proceeding Divine is Ilimfelf, ~md the Divine Pro\'-
~dcnce is the primary Thing that proceedeth, it fol-
lcws, that to act againl1 the Laws of his Divine
Providence, i.; to act ag:1in!l: Himfelf. It may alfo
be fa~d, that 'the Lord is Providence, as it is faid
that God is Order; for the Divine Pr~nidence is
the Divine Order primarily rcfpeCting the Salv;;tion
of Men ; and a:> there is no Order without Lav,:s,
for La-...vs confl:itute it, and every Law d~rives this
{~om On1e:·, that it alfo i::; Ord~r, it hence follows,
that
that as God is Order, he is alfo the Law of his own
Order : The fame may be faid of the Divine Prov-.
idence, that as the Lo,rd is l~is own Providence, he
is alfo the Law of his own Provi~em:e: Hence it
is evident, that the Lord cannot aa againfr the Laws.
of his Divine Providence, becaufe t<;> aCt againfl
tf1em \VO':lld be to aCt ag;infl: Hi.!nfelf. Now' there,
can be no Operation but upon a SubjeEt, and.· by
Means operating upon that SubjeCt : Operation,
except upon a pubjecr, and upon that by certain
l\leans, is not poffible ; the SubjeCl of the Divine.
ProvidencG is M~n ; tpe Mc~ns ax:e Divine Truths
~vhereby he hath Wifdom, and Divine Goods where~.
by he hath Love ; the Divine Providen~e by thefe.
Means operates its End, ;vhich is the Salvation of
l\1an, fat. he \~ho willeth a_n End, alfo willed),
&' '
Mea~s, wherefore when he operates the End, he
operates it by Mean~. But thef~; Particulars will
be made more evident, when they are reviewed in
the following Order. 1 ~ That the Operation of
the Divine J:>rovidenc.e in faving Man begins at his,
B~rth, and cont~m1es to tl;le End of his Life, and
afterwards to Eternity. z. That the Op~ration of
the Divine Providence is continu.ally effected by
?vleans out of pure Mercy. 3· That momentaneous.
Salvation from immediate Mercy i~ not poilible.
4· That momcntaneous Salvation from immediate.
::V!ercy is the fiery tlying S~rpent in the Church.
332: I. That the Operation of the Divine Provi"!
drnce in.f
a'Ving Aian, bcgim at his Birth, arzdcontinzte,·
to the End of bh L!fe, and ttfterwards 'to Eternity.
I~ was !hewn ;:bovc, that a Heaven out of the hu~
~an Race i~ :i:e Yery En<} c:: ObjeCt of the Creatim~
. f .
0~
..
Trm DrviNE PROVIDENCE.
of the Univerfe, and that that End in its Operation
and Progrcffion is the Di\•ine Providence for the
Salvation of Men, and that all Things which are
without Man, and fcrve for his Ufe, are fecondary
Ends of Creation, which in Sum have Relation to
all Things that exiit in the three Kingdoms, the
Animal, Vegetable, and Mineral ; when thefe Things
r.roceed confl:antly according to the Laws of Divine
Order efl:ablifhed at their firfl: Creation, how then
can the primary End [ObjeCl:,] which is the Salva-
tion of the human Race, do otherwife than proceed
cpnfl:antly according to the Laws of its Order,
which are the Laws of the Divine Providence ?
Only obferve a Fruit Tree ; doth it not firfl: fpring
· from a fmall Seed as a tender Germ, and afterwards
grow fucceflively into a Stalk, and fpread forth its
:Eranches, which are then covered with Leaves, anq
afterwards put fo~th Flowers, and bear Fruit, where.
in it depofits new Seeds, by which it provides for
its Perpetuity ? It is the fame with every Shl"ub and
every Herb of the Field : Do not all and fingular
Things tnerein confl:antly and wonderfully proceed
according to the L:1ws of their Order from End to
End ? \Vhy then fhould not the primary End, which
i:i a Heaven out of the human Race, do the fame ?
Can any Thing poflibly take Place in its Progrefiion,
which doth not mofi: confl:antly proceed according
to the Laws of the Divine Providence? Forafmuch
as there is a Correfpondence between the Life of
Man and the Vegetation of a Tree, mak~ a Parallel-
iJm, or Compatifon ; the Infancy of Man is com-
varatively like the tender Germ of a Tree lprin~ing
9,~t of the Earth from the Seed ;. the Childhood
and
526 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNlNG
and Youth of Man is like th'}t Germ increafing to
a Stem and Branches ; na~ural Truths, which every
Man firfi imbibes, are like the Leaves with which
its Branches are covered, Leaves having no other
Signification in the \Vord ; Man's Initiation into
fhe Marriage of Good and True, or the fpiritual
Marriage, is like the Flowers which that Tree pro-
duceth in the Spring Time, fpiritual Tr uths being
~he finall Leaves of thofe Flowers; the firfi Fruits
of the fpiritual Marriage are like the Beginnings of
the Fruit ; fpiritual Goods, which are the Goods of
Charity, are like the Fruit, and are alfo fignified
by Fruit in the \Vord ; the Procreatiom of Wifdom
from Love, a.re like the Seeds, by 1\'leans of which
Procreations Man becometh like a GJrden and a
Paradife : Man is alfo defcribed in the "'\i\rord by a
Tree, and his \Vifdom from Love by a Garden ;_
Nothing elfe is fignified by th~ Garden of Eden,_
Man indeed is an evil Tree from the Seed, but yet
there is pro"ided an Ingrafting or Inoculation of
Branches taken from the Tree of Life, by which
the Juices dt'awn from the old Root are c.:merted
into Juices producing good Fruit. This Compari.,_
fan is made, in Order that it may be known, that
when there is fo conftant a Progreilion of the Divine
Providence in the Vegetation and Regeneration
(Reproduction) of Tree~, it mull by all Means be
conftant in the Reformation and Regeneration of
Men, who are of much more Value than Trees, ac-
cording to thefe Words of the Lord," Are not five
Sparrows fold for two Farthings, yet not one of
them is forgotten before God ; but even the very
H~irs of your H ead are all numbered ; fear not~
· .. therefore ;_
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 527
, therefore ; yc are of more Value than many Spar.
rows. And \vhich of you with taking Thought
can add to his Stature one Cubit ; if ye then be not
~ble to do that Thing which is leafr, why take ye
Thought for the rell: ; confider the Lilies how they
grow : If God fo clothe the Gr:1f<1, which is to day
in the Field, and to-morrow is cafr into the Oven,
how· ~uch more will he clothe you, 0 ye of little
'Faith," Luke xii. 6, 7, ~5, z6, 27, z8.
333· It was faid that the Operation of the Di.
vine Providence in faving Man begins at his Birth,
and continues to the End of his Life; that this may
be underfrood, it i6 to be noted, that the Lord feeth
what Man is, and forefeeth what he defireth to be:>
. confequently what he will be; and in Order that
he may be a Man, and thereby immortal, the Free-
dom of his 'iVill cannot be taken away, as hath
been abundantly fhetvn above, wherefore the Lord
forefeeth his State after Death, and Rrovides for it
from his Birth to the End of his Life; with the
Wicked he provides by permitting and continually
withdrawing them from Evils, btit with the Good
he provides by leading them to Good ; thus the Di-
vine Providence is continually in the Operation of
faving Man ; but more cannot be faved than defire
to be fa~ed, and they defire to be faved; who ac-
kno\vledge Gpd, and are led by him; and they do
not defirc to be faved, who do not acknowledge
God, but lead or guide thernfelves; for the latter
do' not think of eternal Life, and Salvation, where- /
as the former do : This the Lord feeth, but fl:ill
leadeth them, and leadeth them according to the
Laws of his Divine Providence, againfl: whicb he
cannot
528 AN~ELIC Wrs:boM coN'cERl~INC
cannot aft, becaufe to aCt againfl: them, would be t?
afc againft his Divine Love and againfl: his Divine
T~Vifdom, \Yhich is to aa againft himfelf. Now
forafmuch as he forefeeth the Stat.e of all after
Death, and alfo forefeeth the Places of thofe, who
arc not willing to be faved, in Hell, and the Places
of thofe, who arc willing- to be f.wed, in Heaven, it
f~!IO\n, that, as was faid, he provideth for the Wick.:.
Fd their Places by permitting and withdrawin"g, and
llbccs for the Good by leading them; which, un-
lefs it were done continually from the Birth of eve+
ry one to his Life's End, neither Heaycn nor Hell
could fubfifl: ; for without fuch Forefight, ami Pro\'-'
idence at the fame Time, both Heaven and Bell
would be Nothing but Confufion: That every one
hath his Place provided for him by Means of the
Lord's Foreknowledge, may be feen above, n. 202,
203. This may be illufl:rated by the following Com-
parifon; if an Archer or Markfman were to ihoot
at a Mark, and a Line \vere drawn from the Mark
to the Difl:ance of a Mile beyond it; if in fnootinz-,
the Arrow or Bail were to mifs the Mark only a
Nail's Breadth, at the End of the Mile it would di.
verge immenfely from the Line drawn beyond the
Mark ; fo it would be, if the Lord did not every
Moment, yea every the mofl: minute Point of Time,
refpeCl: Eternity in forefeeing and proYiding every
one his Place after Death; but this is done by the
I.ord, becaufe all the Future is prefent to him, and
all the Prefcnt is to him eternal. That the Divine
Providence, in all it doeth, hath Refpect_to Infinity
and Eternity, may be feen above, a. 46 to 69, 214,
and the fubfequent Numbers.
334· It
TuE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 529
334· It was [aid that the Operation of the DiYine
~>rO\·idencc continues to Etcraity, becaufe every
Angel is perfeCted in ·wifJom to Eternity ; but cv- ·
ery one accordin;; to the Degree of AfleCl:ioa for
Goodnefs and Truth, in which h'e was v. hen he de-
parted out of the \\Torld; it is this Degree ·which is
' perfecred to tternity; what is beyond this Degree,
is without th_e Angel, and not within him, and th<H
which is without him, cannot be perfe{lep within
him: This is meant by the good 1\'Icafure, preifed
down, fhaken, and nm:1ing over, which fhall be
given into the Bofom of thofe, who give and ~argive
others, Luke vii. 37, ,38; th?.t is, who are in the
Good of Charity.
335· II. '!'bat the Operation ofthe Di·vine Provi"'
dence is cOJ:tinually ~ffeCled by Jo.!feam out ofpure Afer-
CJ'· There are Means and Modes of the 'Divine
Providence; Means are all thofe Things, by VirtLle
whereof Man is made Man, and perfcB:ed ·with Re-
fpetl to his Undt.r!landing and his \Vill; Modes
.-:.re thofe Things whereby fuch Means arc effeCted.
The ]\Jeans, by Virtue whereof Man is m~de Man,
and perfecred with RefpeCt to his Undcrfl:anding,
arc included undet the gencrd Term or .Apellation
of Truths, wh~ch become !Jeas in the Thought, a!1cl
are called Thi110s in the 1\'Ic:nory, and in themfelves
are Kno.wlcdgcs, froln :d:iJ1 Sciences arc derived.
All th.:~fe !\-leans confidcred in tl}cmfcl \'Cl; :1:-c fp::·-
itual ; but whereas they cxift in Things natural,
from their Clothing or Co\'ering they appear a;;
natural Thing~, and fome as material. Thefe
li.le<'n..; are infin;te in Number, and infinite in Valic-
ty; they arc --;:o:·e or k!:> fimplc and compound,
T T t anJ
530 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNIN'tl
and more or lefs perfeCt or imperfeCt:. There are
. !\1eans for forming and perfeCting civil natural Ufe)
al[o for forming and perfecring moral rational Life ;
and li'Kewile for forming and perfcB:ing fpiritual ce~
lefl:ial Life. Thefe l\leans fucceetl, one Kind after
another, from Infancy to the late/1: Age of Man,
<.nd after that to Eternity; and as they fucceed by
increailng, thofe \vhich were prior become Means of
thofe which are poflerior, inafmuch as they enter
into every 1hing that hath a Form as mediate Cau•
fes, for from thefe every EffeB: or every Conclufion
is efficient, and thence becomes a Caufe ; thus Pof-
teriors fucceffively become l\1eails or .Mediates :
.And whereas this goes on to Eternity, there is no
Pofl:reme or Ultimate that clofes the whole; for as
Eternity is •~ ithout End, fo \Vifdom, \V hich increaf-
eth to Eternity, is without End; If there were any
End to \Yifdom in a wife l\lan, the Delight of his
\Vifdom, \vhich confifls in its perpetual Multiplica-
tion and Frutlification, would perifh, and in Place
of it would fut:ceed the Delight of Glory; in whic~1
alone there is uo cdefi.ial Life; in fuch Cafe a Man
110 longer becomes wife like a young i\Ian, but like
an old Man; and at length like a decrepid Man.
Although the Vvifdom of a wife Man in Heaven
increafes to Eternity, yet tnerc is no fuch Approx~
imation of Angelic Wifdom to the DiYine vVifdom
as to reach it; it is comp;natively like what is [;d{l
of a right Line drawn about an Hype;bola, contin-
ually approaching, but never touching it ; and like
what is faid of fquaring the Circle. Hence it may _
appear, what is meant by Means, by which the Di-
vine Providence operates, that .Man may be 1\Ian,
and
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. s3I
and be perfecced in Rigard to his Underfb:~ding,
~nd th:1t ~hefe I\'leans are induded under the ge1.1e~
ral Appeli:Hi.on of Truths. There are alfo a like
Number of I\feans, whereby Man ~s formed and
perfeued in Regard to his \Vill, but thefe are com.
preht:nded under the general Appellation of Good$; ,
from the latter l\Ian derives Lo\·e, from the former
W'ifdom :. The Conjunction of them makes the
Man,. for fuch as' the ConjunCtion is, fuch is the
Man: It is this ConjunCtion which is called the
l\'larriage of Goc.dnefs and Truth.
336. B.ut the l\1odes, by which the Divine Provi~
dence operatGS up9n Means, and by Means in form•.
ing Man, and perfeCt:~ng him, are alfo infinite in
Number, and infinite in Variety ; in Number they
are as many as there are Operations of the Divine
\Vifdom from the Divine Love for the Salvation of
Man, confequently as many as there are Operations
of the D~vine Providence according to its Laws,
above treated of. That thefe Modes are of a very
hidden Nature, was illufhated above by the Opera-
tions of the Soul upon the Body, concerning which
Man knoweth fo little, that it can fcarcely be call.
ed any Thillg; as how the Eye, the Ear, the Nofe,
the Tongue, and the S!~in fed) and how the Stom-
ach digefls, the Mefentcry prcp:1rcs the Chyle, the
Liver elaborates the Blood, the Pancr.:a:; :md Spleen
purify it, the K;idneys fepante impure Ilumcrs fro::1
it, the Heart col!ecrs and difl.ributcs it, the Lungs
dec:mt it, and hb\':: the Drain fublim:.res tl:c Bloo:i
and viviiies it ~new, bcfidcs innumerable othu·
Things, ail which arc Arc:-,na, which fcarce :.wy
Science can enter into. llcnce it ~s c\·!dent, that
Hill
532 ANGEliC WISDOM CONCERNING
Hill lefs can the fecrct Operations of the Divine
Providence be entered into; it is fufficient that the
I.aws of it be known.
337· The Reafon why the Divine Providence op~
erates all Things out of pure Mercy, is, becaufe the
Divine Effence itfelf is. pure Love, and it is that
which operates by the Divine \Vifdom, and that
Operation is what is called the Divine Providence.
The Reafon \vhy that pure Love is pure Mercy, is,
I. Becaufe it operates ~vith all who are in the whole
World, who are fuch, that they can do Nothing
from themfelvcs. 2. That it operates with the E..
vii and Unjuil:, as well as with the Good and Juft.
3· That it leadeth the former in Hell, and fnatcheth
them out of it. 4· That it continually !hives with
them there, and fighteth for them againfl: the Devil,_
that is, againfi: the E viis qf Hell. 5· That there-
fore it came into the World, and underwent Temp-.
tations even to the lafi: cf them, which was the Paf-
f:on of the Crofs. 6. That it atl:s continually with
the Unclean that it may cleanfe them, and with the.
Infane tht it may heal them; confcquently it h.,_
bours contirlllally out of pure lVIercy.
338. Ill. 'That momentanecus $alvaticn from immt~
diatc Jl1crcy is not prjjib!e.. In the foregoing Pages
it is f!1ewn, that the Operation of the Divine Prov-
idence for the Salvation of Man, begins a_t his Birth,
and continues to the End of his Life, ::>.nd afterwards
to Eternity ; alfo that this Operation is continually
carried on by Means ct!t of pure Mercy; hence it.
follows, that there is no fuch Thing .:.s mom~ntane-.
()US S:!hatioJJ, rwr immediate Mercy. But forafmuch
~s manY, Y:ho co nc! th:l!!: at all frcm the Under-
<
~anding
THE DIYINE PROVIDENCE. 533
fbnding concerning Matters of the Church or of
Religion, believe that they are faved from immediate
:Mercy, and confequently that Salvation ~s momen-
taneous, and yet this is contrary to the Truth, and
is moreo\·er a hurtful Belief, it is requifite that it
ihould be weighed in its proper Order. I. That a
Belief in momcnraneo'liS Salvation frcm immediate
Mercy is taken from the natural State of Man.
~· That fuch a Belief proceeds from Ignorance of
his fpiritual State, which is totally different from his
natural State. 3· That the DoB:rincs of all the
Churches in the Chriflian ·v:,rorld confideed interi-
orly are againfi moment::meous Salvation from im-
~ediate Mercy ; but fiill that it is efl:ablifhcd by
:j.\'len of the external Church. FIRST : Tbat Faith
in monmztaneous Salvation from immediate lv1crcy is
taken from tbe natural State of },ian. The natural
Man from his own State knows no otherwifc than
that heavenly Joy is like worldly Joy, and enters by
Influx and is recei,·ed in the fame Manner; for Ex~
ample, that it is like a Man's becoming rich, who
had been poor, and fo being removed from a forro\':-
ful State of Poverty to a happy State of Opulence~
or like a Man's being honoured, who had before
been of no Efl:imation, and fo being removed from
a State of Contempt to a State of Glory; or like
going out ofthe Houfe of Mourning to nuptial Joys:
}'orafmuch as thefe St2.tes can be ch:mged \\'ithin a
Day, and they have no other Idea of the State of
:Man afte.r Death, it is evider'.t whence it comes, th:!t
there is a Beliefin momcr:taneom Salvation f1o1n im-
mediate Mercy. 1\'Ioreoyer in the \Vorld it is pof-
f>blc for n:any Pc!"fons to be in one Company, and
m
\
5-34 ANGELIC WISDOM CONCERNING.
in one civil Society, and to be merry together, and
vet to differ all of them in their Minds; this is the
Cafe in a natural State ; the Reafon is, becaufe the
External of one Man may be accommoda.ted to the
External of another l\1an, although their Internals..
be diffimilar : From this natural State it i:; alfo con~
eluded, that Salvation confi!1:s only in Admi11ion to.
the Angels in Heaven, and that Admif!l.on is from
immediate Mercy; wherefore it is alfo believed,
that Heaven can as well be given to the \i\'icked
as the Good, and that then there is a Gonfociation
fimilar to what takes Place in the World, only with
this.Difference, that it is full of Joy. SECONDLY :
..But that this Faith proceeds from -Ig;wrance ifa./Pirit-
ual State, which is tot~1lly different froni- a natural
State. The fpiritual State, which is the State of
Man after Death, is treated ofin many Places abovel
\vhere it is fhewn, tbat every one is his own Love;
and that no one can live with any others but fuch
as are in a fimilar Love, and that if he comes to
others, he cannot refpire his own Life; hence it is,
that every one afrer Death enters into a. Society
like himfelf, which is compofed of fuch as are in
a flmilar Love, and that he acknowledges them as
his Relatives and Friends; and what is wonderful
when he t!1eets with them and fees them, it is as
though he had known them from his Jnfancy; this
Circllmfbncc has its Ground in the Nature of fpit~­
itllal i\ffinity and Friend£hip ; yea more, no one in
;1 Sociery can dwell in any other Haufe than his
uwn; every one in the Society hath his own Houfe,
which he finds prepared for him as fuon as he
comes into the Society ; he may be in Company
wid~
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. 535
\vith others out of his I-Ioufe, but yet he cannot
dwell any where but in it; and what is flill more,
no one can fit in an Apartment in ano~her's Haufe,
in any Place but his own ; if he fits in any other
Place, he becomes impotent of Mind and filent ;
anJ what is wonderful, every one when he enters a
Room knows his own Place ; it is the fame in Tem~
pies, and alfo in Aifemblies when they <'.re met to-
gether. From thefe Circumfl:ances it is evident,
that a fpiritual State is totally different from a natur..
al State, and indeed fuch, that no one can be any
where but where his reigning Love is, for there the
Delight cf his Life is, and every one dcfires to be
in the Delight of his Life, and the Spirit of a Man
cannot be any where elfe,' becaufe that confi:itute.s
' the Life of him, yea, his very Refpiration, as alfo the
l'ulfation of his Heart: It is otherwife in the natur~
·al World, where the External of Man is taught
from his Infancy to feign in his Countenance,
Speech, and Geft.ure, Delights different from thofe
of his Internal ; wherefore from the State of a
Man in the natural \Vodd, a Conclufion cannot be
formed concerning his State after Death, for the
State of every one after Death is fpiritual, which is
fuch, that he cannot be any where elfe but in the
Delight of his Love, which he acquired to himfelf
by his Life in the natural World. Hence it may
~ppear manifefl:Iy, that no one can be let into the
Delight of Heaven, which in general is called heav-
enly Joy, who is in the Delight of Hell, or, what
amounts to the fame, he cannot be let into the De-
light of Good, who ~s already in the Delight of E-
vil; which may be Hill more clearly concluded
from
536 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERl\TNC
from this Circumil:ancc, that the Liberty of afcenc.l.
ing into Eeaven is not rcfufed any one after Death,
the Vvay is fhewn him, Leave is given, and he is in~
traduced; but when he comes into Heaven, and by
breathing draws in the Delight thereof, if he be in
Evil, he begins to feel Anguifh in h~s Breafl:, and to
be tormented at Heart, and to experience a Swoon,
in which he writhes himfelf like a Snake placed be-
fore the Fire, and with his F:1ce averted from Hea-
ven and turned toward Heli,efcapes headlong,neith-
er can he reil but in a Society of his own prevailing
Love: Hence it may appear, that to go to Heaven
is not given to any one from immediate lVIercy;
confequently that it does not confifi merely in Ad..
million, as many in this' \Vorld imagine; alfo that
nc:ither is Salntion momentaneous, for this fuppo-
fcs i;nmedi~te Mercy. There were fom~: who in
the \Vorld believed in moment<meous Salvation
from immcdi<..te. l\1ercy, and when they became
Spirits, were defirous that their infc:rnal Delight,
or Delight of Evil, by l'deans of the Divine Om-
nipotence and the Divine I\~ercy together, mi&ht be
changed into heavenly Delight, or Delight of
Good ; and forafmuch as this was their Defire, it
was alf:::~ permitted that it ihould be dcnc by Ant;c!s,
y, ho infl:antly removed their infernal Delight; but
then, by Ro~on that it W<!S the Delight of their
Life, conicquc:uly their Life itfdf, rhcy lay as if
they were dead, deprived of all Senfe and Motion,
nor was it pofiible to inf:.1fe into them any other '
Life but their ow!1, becaufe all Tbings of their l'v1incs
~nd Bodies \\·ere in a St:1te cf R etroverfion, and
could not be contr:.:•:1wife retorted or wrcfl:ed ;
wherefore
TH:~ DiVINE FROVIDENCI::. 537
\vhetefore they were revived by the Intromiffion of
the Delight of their Life's Lo\'e ; afterwards they
faid, that in that State they felt interiorly Something
direful and horrible, which they would not make
known; wherefore it is faid in Heaven, that it j.s
eafier to convert an Owl into a Dove, or a Serpent
into a Lamb, than an infernal Spirit into an Angel
of Heaven. ',fHIRDLY : '17xtt the Dotlrines ofthe
Churches hi tbe Cbriflian FVorld, interiorly c01!fidered.,
are contrary to momentaneous Sal·vation from immediate
·
1\tfcrcy, but yet that it is dfab!ifbed by j\1en ofthe ester~
tzal Church. The DoCtrines of all Churches, view-
ed interiorly, teach Life; where is there any Church
tvhofe Dot.l:rine doth not teach, that Man ought to
examine himfelf1 to fee and acknowledge his Sins;
to confefs them, repent, and then lead a new Life?
I.Vho is admitted to the holy Communion without
this Admonition and Command? Inquire, and you
\vill be confirmed. What Church is there, \Yhofe
DoCl:rine is not founded upon the Precepts of the
Decalogue:? and the PrecelJtS of the Decalogue are
Precepts of Life. \Vhat Man is there of the
Church, in whom there is any Thing of the Church,
\Vho doth not acknowledge, as foon as he hears it,
that he is faved who lives \Veil, and he is condemned
who lives wickedly? The}·efore in the Athanafian
Creed, which is alfo the Dotl:rine received in the
\vhole Chriilian \li[orld, it is faid, "That the Lord
will come to judge the ~ick and the Dead, and.
then they who have done Good, will enter into Life
everlailing, and they who have done Evil, into e\'•
erlafl:ing Fire." From which it is evident, that the
botl:rines of all Churches, viewed interiorly, teach
U u u Life,
SJ8 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCERNiNG
Life, and forafmuch as they teach Life, they teach
that Salvation is according to Life; and the Life of
Man is not infpired in a Moment, but formeti fuc-
cefiively, and reformed as Man fhunneth Evils as
Sins; confequently as he knoweth what Sin is, and
fees :md acknowledges it, and ash-:: doth not will it,
and therefore defifl:eth from it ; .and as he alfo know-
eth the Means, whith relate to the Knowledge of
God; by thefe, which cannot be infufed in a Mo..:
ment, the Life of Man is formed and reformed; for
hereditary Evil is 'to be removed, which in itfelf is
infernal; and in Place of it, Good, which in itfelf is
cle!lial, is to be implanted : Man, from his heredit-
ary Evil, may be compared to an Owl as to Under~
ftn ding)• anJ to a Serpent as to vVill ; and a reform-
ed Man may be compared to a Dove as to Under-
fianding, and to a Lamb as to vVill ; who doth not
fee, that knoweth any Thing of the Life of lY!an,
that this cannot be eifeCl:ed, except the Nature of
the Owl and Serpent be taken away, :md the Nature
of the Dove and Lamb be impbnted ? Moreover it
is well known, t:hat every intelligent Man may be..-
come more intelligent, and ever'y wife l\1an more
wife, and that !ntelligence and Wifdom in Man may
increafe, and in fame do increafe; from Infancy to
their Life's End, and that thus Man is continually
perfeCl:ed. Why !hould not this be more eminently
the Cafe with fpiritual Intelligence and \Vi!dom;
which afcends by twb Degrees above natural ln.;
tclligence anJ Wifdom? and when it afceuds, it
becomes Angelic, which is unutterable; that this
in Angels increafes to Eternity, was faid above :
\Vho may not comprehend, if he will, that what
;s
Tm: DrvrNE PROVIDENCE. 539
i~ perfetted to Eternity, ~annat pofiibly be perfca
~n an InJ!:ant ?
339· Illen~e then it is evident, that all who think
from ~.ife concerning S<llvation, do not think of any
momentaneous Salvation fran) immedi~tt; Mercy,
l;mt of the ·Means of Salv?.tion, on which and by
which the Lord operates according to the Lnvs of
his Divine Providence, therefore by which Man is
led out of pure Mercy.by the Lord. But they who
do not think from. Life conc~rning SaJvation, imag~
i_
ne there is Something momentaneous in Salvation,
;md Something immediate in M.ercy ; as th~y do alfo,
who feparate Faith from Charity; Charity is Life, and
they fuppofe ~here is. Something momentaneous in
Faith, at th.e Hour of Dt!ath, if o.ot before ; they al-
fo do the fa.me, who bel.ieve Remiilion of Sins v..·ith~
out Repenta.nce to b~ Abfolu.tion frolll:Sins, and con~
fequently Salvation,_a~1d who with: th.is IJea receive
the Lord's Supper; lik.~wife they, who have Faith in
the Indulgences of Mo11ks; and i~ their Prayers for. ..
the Dead ;. c.nd in their Difpenf~.tions. grounded in
the Power they claim over the Souls. of Men.
340. IV. 'rbat momentaneous Salvatiunjrom immt;-
(!iate Mercy is thefi::ry flying Serpent in tbe. Cburcb :
By a fiery flying Serpent is meant .I;:vil f11ining from
infernal Fire, the fame as is meant by t!"le fie;y flying
Serpent in Ifaiah,_ "Reioice P,ot thm: whole Palef-
tina, becaufe the Rod of him that fmote thee is
broken ; for out of the Serpent's Root flull come
forth a Cockatrice, and his Fruit {hall be a l:ery
flying Serpent," xiv. 29. Such an E\'il flieth in
the Church, when there is Faith in momentaneous
$y.~ration. from immediate Mercy ;, for thereby, z.
Religion
J40 ANGELIC VVlSDOM CONCE~tNINC;
Religion is abolill1ed. ~. Security is induced. 3i
Damnation is imputed to the Lord. As to what con.
cerns the FIRST, That thereby Religion is ahc!if!Jed;
there are two Eifentia!s, and at the fame Time Uni.,
Yerfals of Religion, an A<;:knowledgment of a God,
and Repentance ;· thefe two Eifentials are ufelefs to
thofe, who think to be f:l,Yed barely frmn Mercy,
without Regard to their Uves ; for what Need
have they of any Thing more, than to fay, God
have Mercy upon me? As to ew;r.y Thing elfe ap-
pertaining to Religion, they are in the Dark, ye<'
they Joye Darknefs :. Of the firft Eifenti(\1 of the
Church, wh\<;:h is an A<;:knowledgm~nt of <;;od,
they only think, What is God~ who ever faw him?
If it is affirmed that there is a God, and that he is
One, they affent that he is One ; if it is affirmed
that there are Three, they alfo fay th~t there ar~
Three, but that thefe Three are to be called One ~.
This is their Acknowledgment of God. Of the
other Effential of the Church, which is Repentance,
they think Nothing at all, confequently neither any
Thing of Sin, and at length do not know that there
is fuch a Thing as Sin ; and then they hear and
imbibe with Pleafu,re, that the Law doth not con.
demn, becaufe a Chrifi:~an is not unJer its \'oke ;,
if you only fay, God have Mercy upon me for thy
Son's Sake, you will be faved ; this is, Repentance
of Life with them. But remove Repent_aJ;J.ce, or,
... what amo\tnts to the fame, fepa:rate Life from Re"'
!igion, and what remains. but the VIords, Have
Mercy upon me ? Hence it is, that they could not
~onceive otherwife, but that Salvation is effeCted in
~ MQm~nt by means of thofe \Vo~ds, i.f not before~
y~t
THE DIVINE PROVIDENCE. .54~
yet at the Hour of Death : In fuch Cafe, what is
the \Vord to them, but like an obfcure and. enig-
matical Voice, uttered from a Tripod in a Cave? or
like an unintelligible Refponfe from the Oracle of
an Idol ? In a \Vord, if you remove Repentance,
that is, feparate Life from Religion, what elfe is
Man, in this Cafe, but Evil !hining from infernal
Fire, or a fiery flying Serpent in the Church ? for
without Repentance Man is in Evil, and Evil is
Hell. SECONDLY : That by Faitb in momentmzeous
Salvati01z, from pure Mercy alone, Security o/ Lift is
induced.. Security of Life arifes either from the
Beli~f of' the Impious that there is no Life after
Death, or from the J3e1ief of thofe who feparate ,
Life from Salvation ; a Perfon of the latter Defcrip-
tion, although he were to believe in eternal Life,
fl:ill th~nks, whether I llve well, or live ill, 1 can be
faved, becaufe Salvation is pure Mercy, and the
Mercy of God is univerfal, inafmuch as he v\'illeth
~1ot the Death of any one; and if haply a Thought
occurs that Mercy is to be implored by a Form d
Words agreeable to the commonly received Faith,
he may think that this, if not before, can be done
~t the Hour of Death; every Man, who is in fuch
<J. State of Security, makes light of Adulteries,.
J,''rauds, Injufi:ice, Violence, Blafphemies, and Re-
venge ; and gives a loofe to his Fldh and his Spirit
in the committing of all thefe Evils ; neither doth
he know what fpiritual Evil is, and its Concupifcen- ·
ces; if he hears any Thing thereof out of the v.,rord,
it is comparatively like Somewhat fal)ing upon Eb-
ony and rebounding, or like Somewhat which falls.
\IAt.O a l)itchl and is fwallowed up. TmRor.Y: 'That
by
J42 ANGELIC \VISDOM CONCER:IiiNC
by fuch a Faith Damnation is imputed to the Lora\
\Vho but mufl: conclude that it i~. not the Fault of
Man, but of the Lord, if he is not faved, when every ·
one can be faved froQl pure Mercy? I£ it be affirmed,
that Faith is the Means of S2,lvation, he "yill urge,
VJ'hat Man is there to whom fuch faith may not
be given, inafmuch liS it only confifl:s in Tho1,1ght,.
which can be infufed in every State of th,e Spirit
abftraB:ed from worldly Things, even with Confi._
dence ? A:pd he may further urge, I cannot take it
of myfelf; if therefore it is no~ given, and Man is.
damned, what elfe.. can, th,e Damned think, than tha~
it is the Lord'·s Fault, who could fave him, and
would not ? Apd would not this pe to call the Lord
unmerciful? Moreover in he Warmth of his Faith.
he may atk, Why can the Lord fee fo many Damn~
ed in Hell, when neverthelefs he is ;:1ble to fave al~
in a Moment from a Principl~ of pure Mercy? Not
to mention other Sttgg~fl:i0na: of q like Nature, which
can be c;,dled Nothing elfe but impious Impeach~
ments of the Divinity. Hence then it may appear,
that Faith in momentaneous Salva.tion from pur~­
Mercy, is the fiery flying Serpent in the Ch:nch._ ..
• • * • • '
EXCUSE my adding this Relz.tion to fill up the.
fuperfluous Paper : Certain Spirits by Permiffion
afcended from He!!, and faid to me, Thou ha{~
written much from the Lord, write Something alfo
from us : I anf•vered, What iliall I write ? They.
faid, '\Trite, that every Spirit, whether he be good
or evil, is in hi..s own, Del,igh_
t, the good in the De't
li$h~
THE DiVINE PROVIDENCE. 543
light of his Good, and the evil in the Delight of his
Evil. I afked them, \Vhat may your Delight be ?
They faid, that it was the Delight of committing
Adultery, ftealing, defrauding, ahd lying: Again I
a!ked, What is the Nature of thofe Delights? They
replied, they were perceived by others as Stenches
from Excrement, putrid Smells from dead Bodies;
and the Effluvia of ftagnated Urine: I faid, Are
thofe Thing-
s delightful to you ? They replied, Mbfi:
tlelightful ; I faid, Then you ate .like the uncle;u1
;Beafl:s which live in fuch Filth : They anfwered, If
we are, we are; but fuch Things are the Delights
of our Nofhils. I afked, \:Vhat more !hall I write
from you? They faid; \\Trite this, that it is permit-
ted every one to be in his own Delight, even the
moft unclean, as it is called, provided he does not .
infeft good Spirits and Angels ; but forafmuch as
\ve could not do othenvife than infeft them, we
were drhren o'ut, and cafl into Hell, where we expe.o
tience direful Sufferings : I afked, \Vhy did you
infefl: the Good ? They replied, that they could not
do otherwife ; it is as if a certain Fury invaded us,
\vhen we fee any Angel, and feel the·Divine Sphere
about him : I faid, Then you are even like wild
Beafl:s : On hearing this, Rage came upon them,
which appeared like the Fire of Hatred ; and to
prevent their doing any Mifchief, they were remand-
ed to Hell. Concerning Delights perceived a~
Odours and Stenches in the fpiritual \Vorld, f,;:r.
above, u. 303, 304, 305, 324.
F l N I S. •
