{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__raleigh___an_interpretation_to_rudyard_kiplings_brushwood_boy_and_map.pdf","mytitle":"An Interpretation To Rudyard Kiplings Brushwood Boy And Map","mylang":"de"}
An Interpretation to Rudyard Kipling's
BRLJSHWOOO BOY and MAP
Esoterically and mystically explains how Kipling reached illumination and
Initiation in the Dream State; how he reached Clairvoyance and
Clairaudience as shown by the dates recorded "Saw
Here," "Heard Here," on the Map in the Story.
The inner meaning and what it secretes
fully explained
By
DR. A. S. RALEIGH
THE HERMETIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
3006 Lake Park Ave. Chicago, ill., U. S. A.
Copyright, 1932 by
The HERMETIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
Copyrighted and Registered at Sta ti oners ' Ea:l,
London, England
(All Rights Reserved )
B R U S H W0 0 D B 0 Y
In this story Kipling is in reality giving the story ot his own
initiation. The brushwood boy is Kipling's soul, and so also is
Annieanlouise. They represent the two sides of the soul of Kipling.
Here is the poem at the beginning of the story, which in reality is the
keynote of the entire matter although it may not appear so at first
glance:
Girls and boys , come out to play:
The moon is shining a s bright as day!
Leave your supper and leave your sleep,
And come with your playfellows out in the street!
Up the l adder and down the wall -
This invitation is not m
ade by children in mortal bodies. It is
the call of the land of sleep, which is the burden, we might say, of
this story, for the sleeptime as here described, is the subconscious or
subliminal state of one's being. Kipling fully believes in the great
truth that the nighttime of the body is the daytime of the soul, and
this is the call, as it were:
11
A child of three sat up in his crib and screamed at the top of his
voice. At first, no one heard, for the nursery was in the wes t wing,
and the nurse was talking to a gardener among the laurels. Then the
housekeeper passed that way and hurried to soothe him. He was her
special pet and she disapproved of the nurse. 'What was it, then?
What was it, then? There's nothing to frighten him, Georgie, dear'."
11
'It was- it was a policeman! He was on the Down. I saw him!
He came in. Jane said he would' !"
• 'Policemen don't come into houses, dearie. Turn over and take
my hand' ."
• 'I saw him - on the Down. He came here. Where is your hand,
Harper'?"
"The housekeeper waited until the sobs changed t o the regular
breathing of sl eep before she stole out.•
• ' Jane, what nonsense have you been telling Master Georgie
about policemen'?"
• 'I haven't told him anything •.•
7
" 'You have . He ' s been dreaming about them'."
" 'We met Tisdall on Dowhead when we were in the donkey-cart
this morning. P'r'aps that ' s what put it into his head '. "
• ' Oh! Now you aren ' t going to frighten the child into fits with
your silly tales and the master know nothing about it . If ever I
catch you again, etc.,' "
The beginning of the experience which is described in the fol-
lowing pages, is here stated. In ot1er words, Georgie was one who in
his sleeping state was conscious of the subliminal life, the life below
the psycho-physical threshold and, being conscious of this, he was able
to see the symbols representing this inner life.
In order to state the meaning of this policeman so that you will
understand it, it is necessary to a1ticipate a little. Kipling de-
scribes the interior state as the City of Sleep; and Policeman Day is
the awakening of the objective consciousness which brings one back
from the City of Sleep. The policeman is t he symbol of objective con-
sciousness , described here as Policeman Day. This was the policeman
that he saw at this time. The statement of the nurse in regard to the
policeman doubtless had the effect of suggesting it to the child's
mind in such a way that the policeman appeared as the symbol.
You will notice that all through life, in all these experiences,
the day appears as the policeman, thus exemplifying the permanent
character of our psychical impressions, indicating that when once an
idea is fixed in the consciousness, as the symbol of a certain prin-
ciple, that idea is permanent. Each one of us who has made any study of
mystical writings must bear witness to this fact. Swedenborg sees
nothing but angels and devils or sa .ans; the Hindu seer sees the
Pitris; or devas; the spiritualist sees the souls of his dead friends
and the Catholic mystic sees the saints, not the sinners . As a rule, all
the entities that appear to anyone are devotees of his particular
religion. This simply goes to show the force of ideas upon the psy-
chical impressions that one receives. This should not be taken as in
any way discounting the value of statements made by mystics or of their
experiences . Far from it. It merely shows the influence of the outward
impressions upon the inner life, and hence gives us a caution in re-
gard to the acceptation of impressions which we receive in the inner
s t ate. It should not discount their va lue, but should merely place us
on our guard so that we will not take them without "a grain of salt."
Condiments are very often necessary and in nothing more so than in the
study of psychical impressions .
Now , always remember that Georgie is Kipling ' s soul and we may
as well anticipate here by stating that the keynote of Brushwood Boy
~s the great mystery of the twofold nature of the soul. That is the
androgynous nature. It is a well known fact among a ll the great occult
schools that the human soul is bi- sexed; every man is a woman and every
8
woman is a man; one sex remains in a state of latency and the other is
developed, but they are both there. As a matter of fact, the physical
body shows the rudimentary sexual organs of the opposite sex perfectly
clear. They can all be discovered, and in some instances they have been
developed. In the soul it is the same, -one sex is in a state of
latency and the other is in a state of development. Now, there is one
mystery which a great many mystical orders have kept somewhat quiet;
nevertheless they have made use of it, and that is the ability to de-
velop the latent sex and the ultimate marriage of the soul, which means
the finding of your soul mate within yourself. That is the reason why
all true mystics feel such unmitigated contempt for the search for a
soul mate. It is all right for those on that plane, but just as sure as
you find a soul mate in somebody else, you can depend upon it you have
cut the cord which binds you to your real self, because your soul mate
is within you; and that is the reason all great mystics are celibates.
Now, the purpose of this story, Brushwood Boy, is to show Kipling's
own initiation. Kipling is Brushwood Boy and he is also Annieanlouise.
The one represents the masculine side; the other his feminine side, the
electrical and the magnetic principles in his soul force, and the final
consummation is the union between the two. At first we find that this
was only in the state of sleep, when he was in the subconscious state .
By and by the union becomes so strong and the feminine side is
so powerfully developed that at last he becomes conscious of
it in the objective state, which is the beginning of the final union.
This story is nothing but the history of Kipling's soul marriage; we
might say the marriage between Mr. Kipling and Mrs. Kipling, spirit-
ually speaking. Kipling never had any business to marry a woman at all.
"A child of six was telling himself stories as he lay in bed.
It was a new power and he kept it a secret . A month before it had
occurred to him to carry on a nursery tale left unfinished by his
mother, and he was delighted to find the tale as it came out of his
own head just as surprising as though he were listening to it 'all
new from the beginning '."
This means that his subconscious was developing daily. His mother
had not finished it, so he was not satisfied, but decided to carry it
on. He was telling it to himself; that is to say his subconscious part
was telling his conscious side this daily story, and it was just as new
to the conscious mind as though some one were telling it to him, and why
so? Because the inner consciousness is able to develop things separate
and apart from the outer consciousness. This should show beyond the
shadow of a doubt that the inner consciousness does not depend upon the
testimony of the physical senses for its pabulum. This, of course, is a
flat denial of the materialistic position, but then the materialistic
position is untrue and, therefore, should be denied. One can even teach
himself philosophic and scientific matters, and as a matter of fact
9
every poet is doing this very thing that Georgie was doing, and so also
is every musician whose music is worth listening to; in fact all music
is produced in this way; if it is not, it is noise and not music. All
art is brought out of the interior state, and the true artist is just
as much surprised at his production as the person who sees the picture.
A great deal of literature and much of the drama is produced in this
way; in fact, characters have an individuality of their own, separate
and apart from the author. George Bernard Shaw is a very interesting
case in point. He says he never has exercised any more real control
over one ot his characters when once it has been created, than he has
over his wife. Honore Balzac was another case ot the same character;
in tact, his characters assumed a personality that astonished him in
many instances; and why? Because those characters represented his in-
terior consciousness and when they were projected outwardly they acted
in accordance with the interior consciousness and not in accordance
with the exterior consciousness. They derived a personality from Bal-
zac's subliminal self and not from the conscious self.
"There was a prince in that tale, and he killed dragons, but only
tor one night . Ever afterwards Georgie dubbed himself prince, pasha,
giant killer, and all the rest (you see he could not tell any one tor
tear ot being laughed at), and his t ales faded gradually into dream-
land, where adventures were so many that he could not recall the halt
ot them. They all began in the same way, or, as Georgie explained
to the shadows of the night-light. There was the same ' starting-ott
place' - a pile of brushwood stacked somewhere near a beach; and
round this pile Georgie found himself running races with little boys
and girls. These ended, ships ran high up the dry land and opened
into cardboard boxes; or gilt-and-green iron railings that sur-
rounded beautiful gardens turned all soft and could be walked through
and overthroYIIl as long as he remembered it was only a dream. He could
never hold that knowledge more than a tew seconds ere things became
real, and instead of pushing down houses full of grown-up people
(a just revenge) he sat miserably upon gigantic doorsteps trying to
sing the multiplication-table up to tour times six."
This represents the astral consciousness as it first begins to
open. All of us who have had any experience on the fourth dimension,
realize that this is perfectly true. It is no trouble to go through
houses, through fences or anything of that kind. We can go through glass
windows or brick walls without any inconvenience whatever and one great
ditticul ty when the astral sense has begun to open in a state ot obj ec-
tive consciousness is that we are liable to see through brick walls
and not see that there is any brick wall there at all, but go right on,
and are liable to experience considerale concussion as a result of en-
deavoring to go through walls in our physical bodies . The contusion to
Georgie here was due to the tact, also, that he was bringing over into
10
the subliminal state some of the impressions which he had received
through the physical senses and this is always seen in the first dawn-
ing of the astral sight.
Now they "All began at one starting point, at a pile of brushwood
stacked somewhere near a beach. 11
What does this brushwood pile repre-
sent'? It is the secret of the whole story. We find here the keynote to
all the symbolism contained in the book. Wood is used for the purpose
of making fire, - that is to burn; it is fire in a state of latency. All
you do when you put wood upon a fire, (if the wood burns), is simply
freeing by certain chemical processes, the latent fire which is slum-
bering in the wood. What is fire? Fire is a metaphysical principle, one
of the most ultimate of the kosmical forces, one of the four elements of
the alchemists, and in fact, the Agni is the luminiferous ether, one of
the five Tattwas which are the emanations of the Great Breath on the
five planes of nature. Fire, then, must be understood as this great
force, but the fire here alluded to, this force is to be understood as
the sex energy. The brushwood pile is the sexual center, and you notice
it was not fire, because Georgie, being but a child, his sex energy was
in a state of latency. It has not as yet become active. He never knew
even when he grew up , the physical response to the sex impulse. It was
not until he met Annieanlouise in the outer state, that is, in the
objective consciousness that his love nature was touched; at this time
it was still slumbering in the wood, hence we see that it is the sexual
center that is here represented by the brushwood pile, and it was on the
beach, on the sea of dreams; hence we are to understand that it was the
activity of the sex principle upon the internal or subconscious state
that is really to be taken into consideration.
"The princess of his tale was a person of wonderful beauty (she
came from the old illustrated edit ion of Grimm now out of print) and
as she always applauded Georgie ' s valour among the dragons and buf -
faloes, he gave her the two finest names he had ever heard in his
life - Annie and Louise, pronounced Annieanlouise . When the dreams
swamped the stories, she would change into one of the little girls
round the brushwood pile, still keeping her title and crown. She
saw Georgie drown once in a dream- sea by the beach ( It was the day
after he had been taken to bathe in a real sea by his nurse) ." Thus
the dream was suggested by the real - and he said as he sank: "Poor
Annieanlouise! She ' ll be sorry for me now!" But Annieanlouise walk-
ing slowly on the beach called: 'Ha! ha! said the duck, laughing,'
which to a waking mind might not seem to bear on the situation.
It consoled Georgie at once, and must have been some kind of a
spell, for it raised the bottom of the deep and he waded out with a
twelve-inch flowerpot on each foot . As he was strictly forbidden to
meddle with flowerpots, in real life, he felt triumphantly wicked. 11
First of all let us see what is meant by the name Annieanlouise.
ll
Bear in mind Kipling is one of the greatest mystics and every name in
every one of his mystical stories means something. The name Anniean-
louise is the key to the essence of the feminine soul of Kipling. "A"
symbolizes the bull, the generator, which is also the unmanifest God;
"n" is the fish. Remember the basis of the Kaballa is the symbolism of
sex. In other words this is the "Great Mother" as the generator , the
bearer of all that lives. In the Great Mother is found the key to the
whole Kaballa. Then, the fish is in a sense the foetus; that is really
what it is. Thus the first "n" is the foetus; the second "n" is also the
foetus, representing the double aspect - the foetus coming from the
unmanifest and then the foetus coming forth . The "i" the Yod, is the
generator, the paternal scepter, the masculine principle, and the "e"
should be an "h" which is the same in the Kaballa; hence it is the
feminine principle of Divinity. But the window is in reality the ovary
of the Great Mother, the beginning of generation in the supreme ova.
Now the "A", the "Aleph" again is the generating bull, and the "n" the
"nun" is the fish, that is the foetus. Now "1" is the whip, symbolic-
ally, the symbol of one of the two truths, the truth of breath, of
spirit; in other words the ministry of pain as the spiritualizing force,
the pain which is associated with the bringing forth of all things.
It is pain as the spiritualizing principle which manifests in conscious-
ness, or the interior state. It is the disruptive, disintegrating, cen-
trifugal force which disrupts and overthrows the lower organic form
and thus enables the transcendent to come into manifestation.
"O" is the circle of beginning of place of birth the symbol of
manifestation;
"U" is the same as "v" or "w"; it is the binding, unifying prin-
ciple, symbolized by the nail; that which hold£ together; the unifying
of the masculine and feminine;
"I" the "yod" is again the masculine symbol.
The "O" is distinctly feminine and the "I" is masculine.
The "s", the "samekh" is not only the form of symbolism repre-
sented as the devil, but it is also in reality the occult chemical in-
fluence, the force of alchemy. It is symbolized in the Kaballa as the
pillar or egg. It is that from which the new life, the new state is to be
hatched, and hence the symbol of the beginning of the new state of
consciousness, the new state of being, and the "e" (he) at the end is
again the feminine symbol of the ovary, the place of generating the
egg . Hence the name "Annieanlouise," shows that it is in reality the
mother side of the soul, in a state of latency.
Now, she was a lways a "princess" and and he was king, of course;
she •1.ras the one he was to marry by and by, and this simply shows t he ob-
jectification of the other side. It is well known to all mystic s that
one of the most common occurrences is the objectification in the ex -
terior consciousness, of purely subjective principles, of abstract
12
forces, which are thus brought to our consciousness. We all know that
it is only the greatest seers who are able to see an abstract principle
as such. They all present themselves first as symbols and this occur-
rence about falling into the water, about his drowning, is purely mys-
tical also . It is the complete submerging of the inner consciousness
into the depths. Water is the mother principle, subtance , in contradis-
tinction to energy, and hence dropping into water, here, is the symbol
of the merging of the ego into the higher state of consciousness, and
the laughing as though by a duck, showed to Georgie that he was not
bound by the l aws governing highland animals . Thus he was called to a
consciousness of his real state.
"The movements of the grown- ups, whom Georgie tolerated but did
not pretend to understand, removed his world when he was seven years
old, to a place called ' Oxford- on- a- visit' . Here were huge build-
ings surrounded by vast prairies, with streets of infinite length,
and, above all, something called the 'buttery', which Georgie was
dying to see, because he knew it must be greasy and, therefore, de-
lightful. He perceived how correct were his judgments when his nurse
led him through a stone arch into the presence of an enormously fat
man, who asked him if he would like some bread and cheese. Georgie
was used to eat all round the clock, so he took what 'buttery' gave
him and would have taken some brown liquid called ' audi tale' but that
his nurse led him away to an afternon performance of a thing called
'Pepper ' s Ghost'. This was intensely thrilling. People ' s heads came
off and flew all over the stage and skeletons danced bone by bone,
while Mr . Pepper himself, beyond quest ion a man of the worst,
waved his arms and flapped a long gown, and in a deep bass voice
(Georgie had never heard a man sing before) told of his sorrows un-
speakable . Some grown- up or other tried to explain that the illusion
was made with mirrors, and that there was no need to be frightened.
Georgie did not know what illusions were but he did know that a mirror
was the looking-glass with the ivory handle on his mother ' s dressing
table. Therefore, the ' grown- up' was 'just saying things ' after the
distressing custom of 'grown- ups·' ; and Georgie cast about for
amusement between scenes . Next to him sat a little girl dressed all
i'n black, her hair combed off her forehead exactly like the girl in
the book called ' Alice in Wonderland', which had been given him on
his last birthday. The little girl looked at Georgie, and Georgie
looked at her. There seemed to be no need of any further intro-
duction."
Then he goes on and gives the conversation which is not particu-
larly interesting . The thing to be borne in mind here is that all this
does not relate to the experience in the child's outer life at all . It
really relates to the interior states . The performances of Mr. Pepper ' s
ghost, etc., is really a presentation of the peculiar experiences that
13
present themselves in the interior development of the subconscious of
which the dream is a very nice illustration. Thus we see the artistic
aspect of the dream state presenting itself. So the daily development
goes on.
"Ten years at an English public school does not encourage dream-
ing. " We find now the child passing through his period of education.
He was put in school and went through that course . •Did not encourage
dreaming ," because it was all objective and hence he was kept from en-
tering the interior state . Well, he grew up and became a leader among
his school fellows. They became his world and he was quite an authority
in every thing , showing that t he soul became the dooinating force in
his school life, and in everything. He was not spoiled by externalities .
'Let the Consuls look to it that the Republic takes no ~aro, ' and
'Georgie was glad to be back in authority when the ho:idays e~ded .
Behind him, but not too near, was the wise and temperate ~ead , now sug-
gesting the wisdom of the serpent, now counselling the =~ldness of the
dove; leading him on to see, more by half-hints than by any direct
word, how boys and men are all of a piece, and how be 'l'!:o can handle the
one will assuredly in time, control the other."
This was the wisdom which was impressed upo:J. his psychical con-
sciousness at this particular time. "The wise and teoperate head" here
is the self, which is back of the consciousness in a Tay, and teaching
the soul. Just as he was taught in other respects, as the intellect was
developed, the Soul is here taught by the Self . Acd so he finishes his
course here and "The Head gave him six months final polish, taught him
what kind of answers best please a certain kind of examiners, and
handed him over to the properly constituted authorities who passed
him into Sandhurst. Here he had sense enough to see that he was in the
lower third once more and behaved with respect toward his seniors,
till they, in turn, respected him and he was promoted to the rank of
corporal and sat in authority over mixed peoples with all the vices of
men and boys combined. His reward was another string of athletic cups,
a good-conduct sword and, at l ast, Her Majesty ' s commission as a sub-
altern in a first class line regiment . He did not know that he bore
with him from school and college a character worth much fine gold , but
was pleased to find his mess so kindly. He had plenty of money of his
own; his training had set the public school mask upon his face, and
had taught him how many were the ' things no fellow can do. ' By virtue
of the same training, he kept his pores open and his mouth shut."
Here we find Cottar passing out into the outer life, the active
life, and Kipling shows himself to be a true Buddhist in this, that ~e
in all his mystical stories does not draw the Hindu ideal of comple~:
withdrawal from all contact with the world and the merging of t he c J::-
sciousness within one ' s self, and the total exclusion of all s:r.Jpa~~,
with the laboring world. Far from it, for on the contrary, each c~a =~
14
those who attain to initiation, does so in this way; through contact
with the world, through a life of service. Of course, he uses the sym-
bol ism of the military, of the army, which to a man who had been in India
f or years and years was quite suggestive . It means the life of ac-
t ivity; not t he life of shooting , in the literal sense nor of business
or anything of that kind, but a l ife of service to others , of service
t o humanity rather than a life of seclusion, which latter is the ideal
of the Hindu. Kipling shows himself to have the pure Buddhistic
ideal in every s ense of the word. The soul adapts itself to the environ-
ment , t o the conditions . He did not undertake to take complete control;
ther efore , he did not seek popularity; it came to him. In other words,
the soul power became the dominant force in this man ' s life .
"And he kept his mouth shut." The person who is always talking,
who is full of words, does not have very much to say. Did you ever notice
that the person who has the most to say really talks the least? If one
would attain knowledge, let him cease talking and live in the internal
contemplating of truth; then he will realize .
"The regular working of the Empire shifted his world to India,
where he tasted utter loneliness in subaltern ' s quarters, - one room
and one bullock- trunk, - and, with his mess, l earned the new l ife
from the beginning."
The "utter loneliness" here refer s to a state of soul isolation,
which was necessary for him for a certain period of time. Then he car-
ried on his sports and ever ything.
"It daw
ned on him that a r egiment in I ndia was nearer the chance
of act ive service than he had conceived and that a man might as well
study his profession." "During the period of silence." In other words,
when there is no real active work to be done the soul develops its ca-
pacity for work when the time does come for active life; this is only
the external ization of the subjective life , and one who has not learned
to live the subjective life, the life of inward contemplation, is not
very likely to accomplish anything worth tal king about, in the outer
objective life.
"A major of the new school backed this idea with enthusiasm and
he and Cottar accumulated a library of military works and read and
argued and disputed far into the nights. But the adjutant said the
ol d t hing , 'Get to know your men, young un and they 'll follow you
anywhere . That's all you want - know your men ' . "
And here is another very important lesson. The soul must thor-
oughl y adjust itself to the external elements , to that which it has to
deal with. There must be a perfect sympathy, perfect unification be-
tween the soul and the exterior principles .
"Cottar thought he knew them fairly well at cricket and the regi-
mental sports, but he never realized the true inwardness of them
till he was sent off with a detachment of twenty to sit down in a mud
15
fort near a rushing river which was spanned by a bridge of boats .
When the floods came they went forth and hunted, strayed pontoons
along the banks . Otherwise there was nothing to do and the men got
drunk, gambled and quarreled ."
Quite characteristic of one on the lower plane , because when he
has nothing to do he does not know how to externalize his conscious-
ness. He must continue to express himself outwardly, and that is really
the cause of most of dissipation. The trouble is, people have too much
spare time. There is not anything really bad about the men who get
drunk and quarrel and fight. Time simply hangs heavily on their hands;
and the women who get mad and talk about their neighbors do not do so
because they really have anything to tell; they are simply out of a job ;
have nothing to do and time hangs heavily on their hands. It is
not respectable for ladies to get drunk so they talk about other people
and in this way while away their idle hours in the most respectable man-
ner they know how, really because they have nothing to do.
"They were a sickly crew, for a junior subaltern is by custom,
saddled with the worst men. Cottar endured their rioting as long as
he could, and then sent down-country for a dozen pairs of boxing
gloves."
" 'I wouldn't blame you for fightin'' said he, 'if you only knew
how to use your hands; but you don't . Take these things, and I '11
show you.' The men appreciated his efforts. Now, instead of blas-
pheming and swearing at a comrade, and threatening to shoot him,
they could take him apart , and soothe themselves to exhaustion. As
one explained whom Cottar found with a shut eye and a diamond-shaped
mouth spitting blood through an embrasure, 'We tried it with the
gloves, sir , for twenty minutes, and that done us no good, sir.
Then we took off the gloves and tried it that way for another twenty
minutes, same as you showed us, sir, an' that done us a world o '
good. 'T wasn't fightin', sir; there was a bet on '."
So in this way we find the soul engaged in the very laudible oc-
cupation of finding something for the lower principles to do, and that
is the great mission of the soul - to educate the mind and heart and
body, etc . , and keep them a lways expressing the inward soul state. When
they are not doing this, they get into trouble . The athletic training
which Cottar gave the soldiers was simply the continuous activity of
those principles under the guidance of the soul itself ; and so he
brought them into splendid condition.
"That detachment, who had gone up in bullock- carts , returned to
headquarters at an average rate of thirty miles a day, fair heel- and-
toe ; no sick, no prisoners and no court martial s pending. They scat-
te~ed themselves among their friends, singing the praises of their
:ieutenant and looking for causes of offense."
They were brought into perfect trim because they had been ex-
16
ercised in the externalizing of the soul consciousness which is the
real function of the mind, of the heart, of the magnetie body and of the
physical body ; of all those lower principles, to externalize t he soul
activity, instead of being inwardly influenced by external environ-
ments .
The whole cause of all life's actions is in man ' s yielding to
the influence of the outer principles on the same plane as himself. The
average person is merely the expression of the diverse vibratory ac-
tivities on those planes. He who becomes free from all those influ-
ences; when he trains his principles to pay no attention to the testi-
mony of his senses; to overlook all those influences and to draw from
the soul or Buddhi his consciousness of those things, is carrying out the
whole purpose of the Buddhistic teaching .
" ' How did you do it, young un?, the adjutant asked. "
"Oh, I sweated the beef off 'em, and then I sweated some muscle on
to ' em. It was rather a l ark' !"
The first thing was to sweat off; in other words, sweat off the
accumulation of useless flesh , consuming of the superabundance of the
purely physical . They were kept active by the soul until these prin-
ciples had lost that plus development of their particular kind; con-
tinually exercised until they developed strength to give expression to
the soul itself.
" ' If that's your way of lookin ' at it, we can give you all the
larks you want. Young Davies isn ' t feelin' quite fit and he's next
for detachment duty. Care to go for him' ?"
" ' Sure he wouldn't mind? I don't want to shove myself forward,
you know' . "
" ' You needn't bother on Davies's account . We'll give you the
sweepin' s of the corps and you can see what you can make of ' em. ' "
" 'All right, ' said Cottar, ' It's better fun than loaf in ' about
cantonments' . "
That is, the soul does not like to loaf, but prefers to be express-
ing itself through the lower principles.
" 'Rummy thing,' said the adjutant, after Cottar had returned
to his wilderness with twenty other devils worse than the first . ' If
Cottar only knew it , half the women in the station would give their
eyes- confound ' em! - to have the young un in tow' . "
" 'That accounts for Mrs. Elery sayin ' I was workin' my nice
new boy too hard,' said a wing commander . "
" ' Oh, yes, and 'why doesn ' t he come to the bandstand in the eve-
nings?' and ' Can't I get him to make up a four at tennis with the
Hammon girls?' the adjutant snorted . 'Look at young Davies makin'
an ass of himself over mutton- dressed- as- lamb old enough to be his
mother' . "
" 'No one can accuse young Cottar of runnin' after women, white
17
o::- ':>lack' the major replied thoughtfully. 'But then, that ' s the kind
:=at generally goes the worst mucker in the end'."
• 'Not Cottar. I have only run across one of his muster before -
a fellow called Ingles, in South Africa. He was just the same hard-
trained , athletic- sports build of animal. Always kept himself in
the pink of condition. Didn ' t do him much good, though. Shot at Wessel-
stroom the week before Majuba. Wonder how the young un will lick his
detachment into shape' . "
There is one characteristic statement here . "I have only run
ac ross one of his muster before . " In other words, he was maintaining
that Cottar did not belong to the regul ar muster; he was of some other
kind. This is the recognition of the purely soul- nature of this char-
act er . And you notice he took great interest in sport, but ladies had
no charm for him. The soul does not run after things which belong to the
world of illusion. Living in the soul state, not descending , not being
dragged down into lower things. Cottar took no interest in the sensuous
blandishments of those who were trying to "get him in tow."
"Cottar turned up six weeks l ater, on foot with his pupils. He
never told his experiences, but the men spoke enthusiastically,
and fragments of it leaked back to the colonel through sergeants,
batmen and the like."
We find here that the soul is continually active and continually
expressing itself through the lower principles , and thus bringing them
into proper shape.
"His words were quoted as barrack authority on bets in canteen
and at tea; and the veriest shrew of the corps, bursting with charges
against other women who had used the cooking- ranges out of turn,
forbore to speak when Cottar , as the regulations ordained , asked of
a morning if there were 'any complaints' . "
• ' I ' m ful l o ' compl aints,' said Mrs . Corporal Morrison, ' an '
I'd kill O'Halloran ' s fat sow of a wife any day, but ye know how it
is. 'E puts ' is head just inside the door, an ' looks down 'is blessed
nose so bashful , an' 'e whisper s, 'Any complaints? ' ' Ye can't com-
plain after that . I want to kiss him. Some day I think I will.
Heigh- ho ! She' l l be a lucky woman that gets Young Innocence. See 'im
now, girls. Do ye blame me'?"
Here again is developed the character of the soul as the pacifier.
The lower principles may get very aggressive, but if they l isten to
the voice of the soul there can be no complaint because there is noth:.::.;
to complain of. All the things of which we complain belong to the To~:~
illusion and when we transcend that, when we enter the pure soul r e-
gion, we find there is nothing really to complain of. There is the~==~­
tber good nor bad, right nor wrong, high nor low, but only the e~::-Ez ­
s~on of eternal unity which manifests itself in the diverse man~~;~:~­
:~o3s of life, and there is just as much good in evil as there :s ~=
18
good. Some people cannot believe that; well, to illustrate: There used
to be an old gentleman who never opened his mouth without being guilty
of profanity. He was always taking the name of God in the most profane
manner that anybody ever heard. His son became so disgusted with his
father's profanity that he made a solemn vow that he would never curse
again and he never has. For over thirty years the name of God has never
passed his lips excepting in reverance. Now, he might have been a kind
of moral mediocre had it not been for the great impiety of his father,
and there is no doubt that it is the sins of the sinners that are the
cause of the saintliness of the saints . The law of Balance is perfect .
Of course, I would not go so far as to say that sinners make good Karma
by the good effect they have upon the saints . I am not in a position
to be sure of that, but Kismet must accomplish its work; the excellent
law is never broken. When man is doing his utmost to thwart the eternal
law, he is the most completely playing into its hands. We are all so
many pawns on the chessboard of life, and we must play according to the
rules of the game. Doubtless there are a number of moves that can be
made, but where is the man big enough to introduce a new move and the
sooner man realizes that all things a re expressions of the one great
law, or Kismet or fate, or Divine Providence, or the Excellent Law,
whatever we please - it is all the same, - the better will he play his
part in the game . The Fiat must be carried out ; hence there is nothing
to complain about because everything is just right. Suppose a man
speaks falsely of you? Well, you need to be lied about . Suppose a man
assaults you? You doubtless need that experience, or it would not come
to you. When we comprehend the great truth that a ll is one, that there
is never a mistake, never has been and never can be; that there is never
an accident in all the realm of universal causation, but that all is the
expression of the one eternal truth; then we realize that there is
nothing really to complain about. If you will only listen to your soul
you will cease complaining. The injunction "Don't worry" i s quite wise .
As a matter of fact there is nothing to worry about . If you will just
find that out, no one will have to tell you to quit worrying . In rea lity
worry is a most foolish thing. If you can help a thing, do so ; if you
cannot help it, it will do no good to worry, and as a matter of fact,
if you cannot help it, it ought not to be helped.
We find that Cottar was always adjusting everything; he "Was
busy eleven hours of the day. He did not care to have his tennis spoiled
by petticoats in the court; and aft er one long afternoon at a garden
party, he explained to his major that this sort of thing was ' futile
piffle,' and the major l aughed."
In other words the soul is interested only in results. It only
wants to express itself and does not care anything about who looks on.
If you can learn always to act without reference to the impression that
you are going to create, to always give express ion to yourself you will
19
discover the great secret which the soul holds for you, and the secret
of eternal success . Oscar Wilde knew this. After writing a drama he
lost all interest in its as soon as it was brought out . He said he was
interested in finding out whether the audience would be a success or
not; the drama was sure to be a success when it satisfied him. The audi-
ence would be ·a success if it appreciated a good drama. But the success of
the drama never depended upon the size of the audience. In other words, a
drama is an externalization of the inward consciousness of the writer.
So the soul does not care at all whether anybody approves or disapproves
of the things it does. The soul is conscious of its absolute truth and
of its fulfilling the eternal inward ideal; hence it does not care what
effect it is going to produce . It knows that it is the expression of
the Excellent Law.
"Theirs was not a married mess except for the Colonel's wife, and
Cottar stood in awe of the good lady. She said 'my regiment,' and
the world knows what that means . None the less, when they wanted her
to give away the prizes after a shooting match and she refused be-
cause one of the prize-winners was married to a girl who had made a
jest of her behind her broad back, the mess ordered Cottar to
'tackle her' in his best calling-kit . This he did, simply and labori-
ously, and she gave way altogether."
" 'She only wanted to know the facts of the case' he explained.
' I just told her and she saw at once ' ."
" 'Ye- es,' said the adjutant. 'I exject that's what she did.
Comin' to the Fusiliers' dance to-night, Galahad'? "
" 'No thanks. I've got a fight on with the major.' The virtuous
apprentice sat up till midnight in the major's quarters with a stop-
watch and a pair of compasses, shifting little painted lead blocks
about a four- inch map. "
We see here, the Colonel 's wife although she has her spleen
against one of these women, when the soul, in other words when anyone
receives a consciousness of the real state of things, realizes that all
these petty grievances belong to the world, learns that all are
products of the one law, that
"All things are but one stupendous whole,
"Whose body nature is, and God the soul" ;
that there is nothing in itself; that all things are expressions of
the oneness; when one realizes this he must necessarily bring himself
into harmony. Then is anyone to blame for his weaknesses? No; it is only
ignorance . That is no one would ever do anything wrong if he had sense
enough to appreciate its effects . It is only ignorance. What is the
cause of ignorance? Failure to comprehend, failure to see into the es-
se~ce of a ll things, entering into the eternal state of development.
"Then he turned in and slept the sleep of innocence, which is
~ull of healthy dreams . One peculiarity of his dreams he noticed at
20
the beginning of his second hot weather . Two or three times a month
they duplicated or ran in series . "
This dream state represents the time when the soul is no longer
expressing itself outwardly, but has entered, turned into itself and
there finds its center, in a contemplation of itself. The real soul
life is active.
"He would find himself sliding into dreamland by the same road -
a road that ran along a beach near a pile of brushwood. To the right
lay the sea, sometimes at full tide, sometimes withdrawn to the very
horizon; but he knew it for the same sea. By that road he would
travel over a swell of rising ground covered with short, withered
grass, into valleys of wonder and unreason. Beyond the ridge, which
was crowned with some sort of street- lamp, anything was possible;
but up to the lamp it seemed to him that he knew the road as well as
he knew the parade ground. He learned to look forward to the place
for once there, he was sure of a good night's rest, and Indian hot
weather can be rather trying . First shadowy under closing eyelids,
would come the outline of the brushwood- pile, next the white sand of
the beach-road almost overhanging the black, changeful sea; then the
turn inland and uphill to the single light . When he was unrestful
for any reason he would tell himself how he was sure to get there -
if he shut his eyes and surrendered to the drift of things.
But one night, after a foolishly hard hour ' s polo (the thermometer
was 94 degrees in his quarters at ten o ' clock) sleep stood away
from him altogether , though he did he best to find the well-known
road, the point where true sleep began. At last he saw the brushwood-
pile and hurried along to the ridge, for behind him, he felt, was
the wide- awake sultry world. He reached the lamp in safety, tingling
with drowsiness when a policeman, -a common country policeman -
sprang up before him and touched him on the shoulder ere he could
dive into the dim valley below. He was filled with terror, -the
hopeless terror of dreams, -for the policeman said in the awful ,
distinct voice of dream-people . ' I am Policeman Day, coming back
from the City of Sleep. You come with me.' Georgie knew it was true-
that just beyond him in the valley lay the lights of the City of
Sleep, where he would have been sheltered, and that this Policeman-
Thing had full power and authority to head him back to miserable
wakefulness . He found himself looking at the moonlight on the wall,
dripping with fright; and he never overcame that horror , though he
met the Policeman several times that hot weather, and his coming was
the forerunner of a bad night."
This is a description of the experience in passing into the sub-
conscious state . He was passing from the body , but the objective state
- described as Policeman Day - came back, s o he could not reach the City
of Sleep. This was caused partly by hot wea ther impressing a continual
21
consciousness of the body as it was unable to lose itself; hence it was
the mixing between the dream and waking states, when his waking en-
vironment impressed the dreams. This state is largely the cause of
insomnia. We often have terrible dreams caused by some physical dis-
comfort which impresses itself upon the dream state .
"But other dreams, - perfectly absurd ones - filled him with an
incommunicable delight. All those that he remembered began by the
brushwood- pile."
That is to say they began by the awakening of the sex center.
It was his sex force in the inwar d state, the subconscious activity of
the sex force .
"For instance, he found a small clockwork steamer (he had no-
t iced it many nights before) lying by the sea- road, and stepped into
i t, whereupon it moved with surpassing swiftness over an absolutely
l evel sea. This was glorious, f or he felt he was exploring great mat-
ters; and it stopped by a lil y car ved in stone, which, most naturally,
floated on the water . Seeing the lily was labelled ' Hong- Kong'
Georgie said, ' Of course . This is precisely what I expected Hong-
Kong would be like . How magnificent '!"
He noticed it was the lily. The lily in India as well as Egypt is
a suggestive symbol. It represents the lotus . The lotus is, in a cer-
tain sense , the symbol of incarnation. A lily is also used as the symbol
of resurrection in the Song of Songs. It represents the flowering out
of the life principle. "A Lotus was floating on the heavenly waters"
taking its root in the umbilicus of Vishnu, the Supreme. Sleeping in
this lily as Brahma the four- faced, the creator; hence we are able to
fix its symbolism. This lily wa s made of stone, the solid, unyielding
permanent principle; but it also was floating upon the waters, upon the
eternal substance, and it was called Hong-Kong. Now, let us see what
this name means :
The "H" (he) is the ovary of the Great Mother; it is also the
divine feminine principle;
"o" is the circle of beginning, the place of birth.
"n" is the fish or foetus , in a way;
"g" is the erect serpent, the active principle, and "K" is the
back of the skull, the symbol of the vital centers; "o" is again the
circle of beginning, or place of birth.
"n" is the foetus, fish; and "g" again is the erect serpent and
in another sense the Kundalini.
Hence we see the "Hong" represents the physical and "Kong" the
oent a l . In a word, Hong- Kong is the umbilical cord, the center of the
one hundred forty- four thousand Nadis , according to Sankhya philosopy.
:nes e Nadis or forces all converge in the umbilicus . Every function of
t~e body, every muscle, every activity, is the result of stimuli from
t h:.s center; in other words, it is stimulated into activity by the par-
22
ticular Nadi which is to perform that function . It is not true to say
simply that all the functions of the body are the result of stimulus
from magnetism. It is more proper to say that there are one hundred
forty- four thousand separate and distinct kinds of magnetism and that
each function of the body is due to the fact that that particular kind of
magnetism, that particular Nadi is there active and has that function
to perform.
Now, Hong- Kong was the umbilicus and hence the one hundred fort y-
four thousand Nadis; and reaching Hong- Kong simply meant that they be-
came active : they were set free in the subconscious condition and so
this was just what the soul expected. The soul came down into conscious-
ness as he might have expected.
"Thousands of miles farther on it halted at yet another stone
lily, labelled ' Java ' ; and this again delighted him hugely because
he knew that now he was at the world's end. "
Let us see what is here meant. Let us analyze the meaning of t he
word "Java . " "J" is the Yod, the seme as "I", hence the masculine sex
principle . "A", "Aleph" is the generator, the bull; in a certain sense
the unmanifest God , but here it means that this generative force is a
manifestation of the unmanifest God ; that all things come from him.
The "V" (Vau) is the binding, unifying principle;
The "A" again is the generator, which springs from that.
In other words, "Java " here means the solar plexus, the vital
principle, and shows that the nature of his vitality was still on the
masculine sice . He had now reached this place and , therefore, realized
that he was at the end of the world . That is to say , he was at the end
of the physical state . He was now rising to something higher; going out
of the physical state, really entering the land of dreams in the true
sense of the word - the subliminal state .
"But the little boat ran on and on till it lay in a deep fresh-
water lock, the sides of which were carven marble, green with moss .
Lily- pads l ay on the water, and reeds arched above . Some one moved
among the reeds - some one whom Georgie knew he had travelled to thi s
world ' s end to reach. Therefore, everything was entirely well with
him. He was unspeakably happy and vaulted over the ship ' s side to
find this person . When his feet touched that still water it changed,
with the rustle of unrolling maps , to nothing less than a sixth-
quarter of the globe beyond the most remote imagining of man- a place
where islands were coloured yellow and blue , their lettering strung
across their faces. They gave on unknown seas, and Georgie ' s urgent
desire was to return swiftly across this floating atlas to known
bearings . He told himself repeatedly that it was no good to hurry ;
but still he hurried desperately, and the islands slipped and slid
under his feet, the straits yawned and widened, t ill he found him-
self utterly lost in the world ' s fourth dimension , with no hope of
23
return. Yet only a little distance away he could see the old world with
the rivers and mountain-chains marked according to the Sandhurst
rules of map-making. Then that person for whom he had come to the
Lily-Lock (that was its name) r an up across unexplored territories,
and showed him a way. They fled hand in hand till they reached a road
that spanned ravines, and ran along the edge of precipices and was
tunnelled through mountains·. ' This goes to our brushwood-pile' said
his companion; and all his trouble was at an end."
The Lily-Lock is the next place to which they come. Now "L" is the
whip, also the mission of pain, the disruptive force; "I" the "Yod" is
again the masculine generative, energy; again the "l" is the whip; and
the "Y" the masculine generator. Then in the "Lock" the "L" is the whip,
the mission of pain; "o" is the circle of beginning , the place of birth ;
"c" and "k" are really the same sound and symbolize the back of the
skull, the vital center. In other words, the word "Lily" is decidedly
feminine, hence we have the union of the sex principles, and the Lily-
Lock, therefore, is the heart center of the astral body, the emotional
center, and it is there they first saw each other, as he sprang out from
there; he went on from that, into the Mental state and, springing from
there he met the companion, the feminine side and they there became con-
scious of each other while in that higher state. This unknown continent
that they emerged into was the spirit itself , the center. Here (between
the eyes) and forward from the pineal gland the "silent watcher" is
the site of the spirit itself .
He was frightened; he wanted to go back to the objective conscious-
ness , because the soul could not yet stand the unknown continent and
so he and his companion ran hand in hand together until they came to the
passage which would go to the brushwood-pile, and "all his troubles were
at an end."
"He took a pony because he understood that this was the Thirty-
Mile Ride and he must ride swiftly, and raced through the clattering
tunnels and round the curves always downhill, till he heard the sea
to his left, and saw it raging under a full moon, against sandy
cliffs . It was heavy going , but he recognized the nature of the
country, the dark- purple downs inland and the bents that whistled
in the wind. The road was eaten away in places, and the sea lashed at
him - black foamless tongues of smooth and glossy rollers; but he was
sure that there was less danger from the sea than from 'Them' whoever
'They ' were, inland to his right. He knew, too, that he would be safe
if he could reach the down with the lamp on it . This came as he ex-
pected; he saw t he one light a mile ahead along the beach, dismounted
turned to the right, walked quietly over to the brushwood- pile, found
the little steamer had returned to the beach whence he had unmoored
it - and must have fallen asleep for he could remember no more."
:bis road which ran under mountains and through tunnels, is the
24
spinal cord; the Thirty- Mile Ride is the ride down the spinal cord from
the apex of the Medulla Oblongata. It will be more intelligible if we
state that according to the Sankhya and also the Yogi Philosophy , the
spinal cord has three openings clear through the center which are closed
at the bottom by a little bony partition. Now, through the opening or
canal on the right side flows the electric force; in the left opening
flows the magnetic force . They unite a t the bottom in the box which is,
in reality the sacral plexus where t he Kundalini is coiled up. All this
twofold energy that is not used up in the functions of the body, there
accumulates. It cannot go back the way it came, because the current is
always flowing down. By and by, under certain Yoga practices, it is
raised up until it strikes this bony partition and at last this parti-
tion is dissolved and gives way and this energy is gradually raised up .
When it reaches the lumbar plexus it produces physical illumination;
when it reaches the cervical plexus mental illumination is produced;
when it reaches the Medulla Oblongata, Buddhic illumination is pro-
duced, and when at last it flower s out into the thousand-petaled lotus
of the brain, spiritual illumination is realized. Now this ride down
the spinal cord, is the union of the man and woman. Annieanlouise comes
down the left side , Georgie down the right side ; they come down to-
gether. It simply means descending from that soul state, the medulla
oblongata, to the sacral plexus, which is termed the purple downs . The
Purple Downs is the coiled up Kundalini. When they reach the bottom they
always come out by the brushwood-pile. It is the excretory center or
rather the Nadi or Tattwa.
Why was this called the Thirty-Mile Ride, and why ride on a pony?
The horse is the symbol of intelligence, the consciousness ; in other
words ; thirty is the numerical symbol of "L;" in other words, the same
as the whip, the mission of pain; which goes to show that great pain
ever accompanies the transition from the higher state of consciousness
downward. There is no such thing as realizing the higher state or the
coming down from that state - the objectification later of t he tran-
scendent state, without great pain, because the body and the lower prin-
ciples must be transformed so that they can retain consciousness of
that higher state, and that transformation is always accompanied by
the greatest agony.
Who were the "Them" and the "They," of whom they were a fraid?
They were the denizens of Nirvana; the same as the author described in
"They." The author's "They" is the natural sequel of Brushwood Boy , be-
cause after union he was able to remain in the Unknown Continent in
"They" but now he was frightened, not having risen above the soul state .
" 'I'm gettin' the hang of the geography of that place, ' he said to
himself, as he shaved next morning . 'I must have made some sort of
a circle. Let ' s see . The Thirty- Mile Ride (now how t he deuce d id I
know it was called the Thirty- Mile Ride) joins the sea-road beyond
25
the first down where the lamp is. And that atlas- country lies at the
back of the Thirty-Mile Ride, somewhere out to the right beyond the
hills and tunnels . Rummy things, dreams. Wonder what makes mine fit
into each other so? ' "
His consciousness was now being made objective, definitely so , and
he was beginning to get a view of those inward experiences. They were all
being objectified.
"He continued on his solid way through the recurring duties of the
seasons . "
"The mind set free from the day ' s doings, generally ceased work-
ing altogether, or if it moved at all, carried him along the old
beach- road, to the downs, the lamp- post and once in a while to ter-
rible Policeman Day. The second time that he returned to the world's
lost continent (this was a dream that repeated itself again and
again, with variations on the same ground) " -
because he was really consciously entering into that state
- "he knew that if he only sat still the person from Lily- Lock would
help him, and he was not disappointed . Sometimes he was trapped in
mines of vast depths hollowed out of the heart of the world, where
men in torment chanted echoing songs; and he heard this person coming
along through the galleries , and everything was made safe and de-
lightful. They met again in low-roofed Indian Railway carriages that.
halted in a garden surrounded by gilt-green railings, where a mob of
stony white people, all unfriendly, sat at breakfast tables covered
with roses, and separated Georgie from his companion, while under-
ground voices sang deep- voiced songs. Georgie was filled with enor-
mous despair till they two met again. They foregathered in the mid-
dle of an endless, hot tropic night, and crept into a huge house that
stood, he knew, somewhere north of the railway- s t ation where the
people ate among t he roses . It was surrounded with gardens, a ll moist
and dripping; and in one room, r eached through leagues of whitewashed
passages , a Sick Thing lay in bed. Now, the least noise Georgie
knew, would unchain some waiting horror, and his companion knew it,
too; but when their eyes met across the bed, Georgie was disgusted
to see that she was a child - a little girl in strapped shoes with
her black hair combed back from her forehead ."
" 'What disgraceful folly, ' he thought . 'Now she could do nothing
whatever if Its head came off'."
The house of the Sick Thing was the Pineal Gland, the seat of the
soul's activity. It is sick, yes, and why? This pineal gland has for
lo~g ages been unused except by a few. It is the seat of seership. To
=ake it well again, bring it forth into activity again, make it work
in conjunction with the f a culty of intuition would be to make it well.
: hen the "Third eye" will again be open and give to mankind the light
of the Buddhic region, t he facul ty of seershi p . The little girl here
26
is still the association of his dream idea, but viewed in another way
it means the feminine side was not developed very far . It was still in
a state of childhood. But yet he thought it would be terrible - "What
could she do if Its head came off?"
In other words if the Sick Thing were about to die they would be
in a terrible shape . There would be no possibility of any soul life if
that took place.
"Then the Thing coughed and the ceiling shattered down in plaster
on the mosquito-netting, and ' They' rushed in from all quarters. "
That is to say the influence of Nirvana were cr owding in upon
them and they were frightened .
"He dragged the child through the stif ling garden, voices chant-
i ng behind them, and they rode the Thirty- Mile Ride under whip and
spur, " - Remember thirty is the numerical symbol of the whip.
" - along the sandy beach by the booming sea, till they came to the
downs, the lamp- post and the brushwood- pile, which was safety. "
The downs a re the Kundalini , the lamp- post , objective conscious-
ness. The brushwood pile is the sex principle . "Which was safety," be-
cause they had now come into objective consciousness.
"Very often dreams would break up about them in this fashion ,
and they would be separated to endure awful adventures alone . But
the most amusing times were when he and she had a clear understanding
that it was all make- believe, and walked through mile-wide roaring
rivers without even taking off their shoes, or set light to populous
cities to see how they would burn, and were rude as any children to
the vague shadows met in their rambles . Later in the night they were
sure to suffer for this, either at the hands of the Railway People,
eating among the roses, or in the tropic uplands at the far end of
the Thirty- Mile Ride. Together this did not much affright them; but
often Georgie would hear her shrill cry of ' Boy! Boy!' half a world
away, and hurry to her rescue before ' They ' maltreated her."
"Understanding it was all make- believe" was the realizing of the
world illusion. At certain times the two aspects of the soul, working
in conjunction, were able to realize the illusion of all things . Some-
times, however, they were persecuted by the railway people. The r ailway
is the symbol of the passage, the passing from one state of conscious-
ness to another.
They "set fire to towns ." In other words, the soul life - the two
aspects, working together, could destroy certain of the illusions.
Those things which the world looks upon as a ll- import ant were com-
pletely torn away; they were nothing in the consciousness of Georgie
and Annieanlouise. The world illusion in certain aspects was destroyed.
They had no fear if they were together, but when the polarity was not
in a state of activity, then they were unable to realize t he strength
and power, which t hey possessed as a result of the Union, and then they
27
were persecuted; they would persecute her until she called to him.
"He and she explored the dark- purple downs as far inland from the
brushwood-pile as they dared, but that was al ways a dangerous
matter."
The purple- downs represent the sacral plexus and the Kundalini.
They explored the two principles together as far inland as they dared;
that is, going upward from the Kundalini. Now going upward, up through
the Thirty-Mile Ride .
"The interior was filled with •Them ', and ' They' went about sing-
ing in the hollows, and Geor gie and she felt safer on or near the
seaboard."
Because the higher up they went the farther from the Kundalini,
the nearer they approached the purely spiritual state where "They" the
spirtual forces, were i n a state of activity.
"So thoroughly had he come to know the place of his dr eams that
even waking, he accepted i t as a real country , and made a rough
sketch of it."
That is to say the sketch was brought down into his objective
consciousness.
"He kept his own counsel, of course, but the permanence of the
l and puzzled him. His ordinary dreams were as formless and as fleet-
ing as any healthy dreams could be, but once at the brushwood- pile
he moved within known limits and could see where he was going . There
were months at a time when nothing notable crossed his sleep . Then
the dreams would come in a batch of five or six, and next morning
the map that he kept in his writing case would be written up to date ,
for Georgie was a most methodical person . There was indeed, a danger
- his seniors said so - of his developing into a regular ' Auntie Fuss '
of an adjutant and when an officer once takes to ' Old maidism ' there
is more hope for the virgin of seventy than for him."
We see the development going on. In other words , it was a real
initiation and not simply t he ordinary dreamy state that was being
brought out here.
The war broke out, the active campaign work was carried on; in
ot her words, this is when soul development has to express itself out-
war dly, - in a terrible war. Georgie was carried through this active
life and became so weakened in a way, through it, that it was thought
best to send him home; he was given a vacation. On the voyage a woman
tried to make love to him, but he was so pure and innocent that he took
it as kind of a mother love , and was not conscious of the fact that she
had any other designs; showing that the s oul is incapable of response
~o outward sexual approaches ; particularly as he had already found the
i3ward soul mate and was in love with her .
At last he came home . He found his mother trying to find a union
for him.
28
" ' Not a thing changed,' he sighed contentedly when the three
of them sat down to dinner in the late sunlight, while the rabbits
crept out upon the lawn below the cedars, and the big trout in the
ponds by the home paddock rose for their evening meal. 11
n ' Our changes are all over , dear, ' cooed the mother; ' and now
I am getting used to your size and your tan (you ' re very brown,
Georgie) I see you haven ' t changed in the least . You ' re exactly like
the pater'."
"The father beamed on this man after his own hear t , - 'youngest
major in the army, and should have had the V. C. , sir ' - and the butler
listened with his professional mask off when Master Georgie spoke
of war as it is waged to- day and his father cross- questioned. n
"They went out on the terrace to smoke among the roses, and t he
shadow of the old house l a y long across the wonderful Engl ish
fol iage, which is the only living green in the world . "
" ' Per fect! By Jove, it ' s perfect! Georgie was looking at the
r ound bosomed woods beyond the home paddock where the white pheasant
boxes wer e ranged; and the golden air was ful l of a hundred sacred
scents and sounds Georgie felt his father's arm tight en in his . "
• ''Tis not hal f bad - but hodie mihi eras tibi, isn ' t it? I sup-
pose you ' ll be t urning up some fine day with a girl under your arm,
if y ou haven ' t one now, eh'?"
We find that all efforts were made to humaniz e him, to get him
int o some entangling alliance wit h a member of the opposite sex, but
he was absol utely incapable of it . He would not dance or do anything of
that kind, although his mother tried her best to get a wife for him.
At last she invited a woman to come there, but this fact did not in-
terest Georgie; he went fishing at the time she was expected. At last
he retur ned with his fish and went up to his room. He did not go in where
his father and mother and the company were, but, standing outside, he
heard this woman sing and the song showed him that she had been through
the same experiences he had. She was singing:
Over the edge of the purple down,
Where the single lamplight gleams,
Know ye the road to the Merciful Town
That is hard by the Sea of Dreams -
Where the poor may lay their "Tongs away,
And the sick may forget to v;eep?
But we - pity us! Oh, pity us!
We wakeful ; ah, pity us!
We must go back with Policeman Day -
Back from the City of Sleep!
29
Weary they turn from the scroll and crown,
Fetter and pra yer and plough-
They that go up to the Merciful Town,
For her gates are closing now.
It is their right in the Baths of Night
Body and soul to steep:
But we - pity us! ah , pity us!
We wakeful; oh, pity us! -
We must go back with Poli ceman Day-
Back from the City of Sleep!
Over the edge of the purple down,
Ere the tender dreams begin,
Look - we may look - at the Merc i ful :o'l':l,
But we may not enter in!
Outcasts all, from her guarded wall
Back to our watch we creep :
We - pity us! ah, pity us!
We wakeful; oh, pity us! -
We that go back with Policecan Day -
Back from the City of Sleep!
This song really described t he conscious~ess in the s leeping
state; the entering into and coming out of it .
"At the last echo he was aware that his oouth was dry, and un-
known pulses were beating in the roof of it. The housekeeper, who
would have it that he must have fallen i:l and caught a chill, was wait-
ing to catch him on t he stairs and, since he neither saw nor an-
swered her, carried a wild tale abroad that brought his mother
knocking at the door."
" ' Anything happened, dear? H
arper said she thought you
weren ' t - ' "
" ' No ; it's nothing. I'm all right, m
ummy. Please don't bother' . "
"He did not recognize his own voice, but that was a sm
all matter
besides what he was considering . Obviously, most obviously , the
whole coincidence was crazy lunacy. He proved it to the sat isfaction
of Major George Cottar who was going up to town to- morrow to hear a
lecture on the supply of ammunition in the field; and having s o
proved it, the soul a nd brain and heart and body of Georgi e cried
joyously: ' That ' s the Lily Lock girl - the Lost Continent girl - the
Thirty- Mile Ride Girl -the Brushwood girl- ! I know her ' !"
"He waked stiff and cramped i n his chair, to reconsider the situa-
tion by sunlight, when it did not appear normal . But a man must eat,
a nd he went to breakfast, his heart between his teeth, holdi~g ~=­
self severely in hand."
30
" ' Late , as usual ' said the mother. ' My boy, Miss Lacy'."
"A tall girl in black raised her eyes to his, and Georgie's life
training deserted him - just as soon as he realized that she did not
know . He stared coolly and critically. There was the abundant black
hair, growing in a widow's peak, turned back from the forehead, with
that peculiar ripple over the right ear; there were the gray eyes,
set a little close together; the short upper lip, resolute chin and
the known poise of the head. There was also the small well-cut mouth
that had kissed him. n
The kiss represented the union in the soul state and outwardly
the two principles. She did not recognize .
" ' Georgie - dear! ' said the mother amazedly, for Miriam was
flushing under the stare ."
" 'I - I beg your pardon !' he gulped. 'I don ' t know whether the
mother has told you, but I am rather an idiot at times, specially
before I've had my breakfast. I t ' s - it ' s a family failing '."
"He turned to explore among the hot-water dishes on the side-
boar d, rejoicing that she did not know - she did not know."
We see that the masculine principle, which was the stronger, was
abl e to recognize the state of union ; the consciousness had not yet
come.
" 'You compose- don ' t you'i' Must be a fine thing to be able to do
that. I think I heard you singin ' when I came in last night after
fishin '. Awfully pretty song. How'd you think of such things ' ?"
" ' You only composed the music, dear, didn ' t you ' ?"
"The words too. I'm sure of it," said Georgie, with a sparkling
eye . No; she did not know.
" ' Yeth; I wrote the words, too' Miriam spoke slowly, for she
knew she lisped when she was nervous."
" ' Now, how could you tell, Georgie? ' said the mother, as de-
lighted as though the youngest major in the army were ten years old ,
showing off before company.
" 'I was sure of it, somehow ' , " said Georgie . Well, he persuaded
the girl to go for a ride. They went .
"She was in the saddle before he could offer to help , with the
clean spring of the child who mounted her pony for the Thirty-Mile
Ride • • • ••• • • ' We must be quick,' said Miriam, bored and angry."
" 'There ' s no great hurry '. "
"The horses capered on the short, sweet- smelling turf, and the
delaying shadows gathered in the valley as they cantered over the
great dun down that overhangs Bassett and the Western coaching- road.
Insensibly the pace quickened, without thought of mole- hills," etc . ,
etc .
" 'Oh, that was glorious! 'Miriam cried, reining in. ' Dandy and
I are old friends, but I don ' t think we ' ve ever gone better to-
31
gether'."
" ' No; but you've gone quicker once or twice ' ."
" 'Really? When ' ?"
"Georgie moistened his lips. ' Don't you remember the Thirty- Mile
Ride - with me- when ' They' were after us on the beach- road, with the
sea to the left - going toward the lamp- post on the downs?"
"The girl gasped. 'What - do you mean?' she said hysterically?"
• ' The Thirty- Mile Ride, and - and all the rest of' it' . "
" 'You mean - ? I didn't sing anything about the Thirty-Mile
Ride . I k.now I didn't. I have never t old a living soul' . "
" ' You told about Policeman Day and the lamp at the top of' the
downs , and the City of' Sleep. It all joins on, you know - it's the
same country - and it was easy enough t o see where you had been ' . "
" ' Good God!- It joins on - of' cour se, it does ; but I have been
- you have been - Oh, let ' s walk please , or I shall fal l of'f' ' . "
The intense activity of' the consciousness, t ogether with the
vibration had now become so intense that it began to express itself in
consciousness, symbolized by the horse . At last the intense activity
became so great that she began to waken to her consciousness and the
two came together .
"Geor gie ranged a l ongside and l aid a hand that shook below her
br idl e- hand, pulling Dandy into a walk. Miriam was sobbing as he had
seen a man sob under the touch of the bullet . "
" ' It's all right- it ' s all right, ' he whispered feebly . Only
only, it's true, you know '. "
" 'But where? Tell me' . "
" ' There - wherever it may be - in our country, I suppose . Do you
r emember the first time you rode it - the Thirty-Mile Ride I mean?
You must '. "
" ' Let me think. I - we were on no account to make any noise'."
She was staring between Dandy ' s ears, with eyes that did not see, and
a suffocating heart.
" ' Because "It" was dying in the Big House?' Georgie went on,
r eining in again ' ."
" 'There was a garden with green and gilt r ailings - all hot . Do
you remember ' ?"
" ' I ought to. I was sitting on the other side of the bed before
"It" coughed and "They" came in' . "
" 'You! ' the deep voice was unnaturally full and strong, and the
girl ' s wide- opened eyes burned in the dusk as she stared him through
and through. 'Then you're the Boy- my Brushwood Boy, and I ' ve known
you all my life ' !"
The consciousness had now come . The feminine side was able to
recognize the masculine side; the two were united.
"She fell forward on Dandy ' s neck."
32
"'Of course, you're the Boyand I didn ' t know- I didn ' t know ' ."
" 'I knew last night and when I saw you at breakfast' . "
" 'Oh, that was why! I wondered at the time . You would, of
course' . "
" 'I remember waiting for you when the steamer came in. Do you' ?"
" 'At the Lily- Lock beyond Hong- Kong and Java'?"
" ' Do you call it that, too'?"
" 'You told me it was when I was lost in the continent . That was
you that showed me the way through the mountains'?"
" 'When the islands slid? It must have been, because you're the
only one I remember. All the others were "Them". ' "
" ' Awful brutes they were, too '. "
" ' I remember showing you the Thirty- Mile Ride the first time .
You ride just as you used to then. You are you' !"
" ' That ' s odd. I thought that of you this afternoon. Isn't it
wonderful'?"
" 'What does it all mean? Why should you and I, of the millions
of people in the world have this - this thing between us? What does
it mean? I'm frightened ' . "
" ' This! ' said Georgie. The horses quickened their pace. They
thought they had heard an order. 'Perhaps when we die we may find out
more, but it means this now' . "
"There was no answer." • • • • • • "As the world went, they had
known each other rather less than eight and a half hours, but the mat-
ter was one that did not concern the world."
This kiss was the perfect union, brought into the objective state .
" 'That ' s the second ' Georgie whispered."
" 'It' s not!'- furiously. 'It ' s not' . "
" 'On the downs the other night - months ago'."
" ' You were just as you are now and we went over the country
for miles and miles ' ."
" ' It was all empty, too. They had gone away. Nobody frightened
us . I wonder why, boy'?"
" 'Oh, if you remember that, you must remember the rest. Con-
fess ' !"
" ' I remember lots of things, but I know I didn't. I never have
till just now'."
" 'You did, dear'."
" 'I know I didn't, because - oh, it ' s no use keeping anything
back!- because I truthfully meant to ' ."
" 'And truthfully did' . "
" 'No; meant to, but some one else came by' . "
" ' There wasn't anyone else. There never has been'."
" 'There was . There always is. It was another woman out there on
the sea. I saw her. It was the 26th of May. I've got it written down
33
somewhere' . "
The "Woman" here represents the lower nature. He was trying to
get the union with the feminine side of the soul, and so he did not re-
spond to the approaches of the low nature, but the feminine side of his
soul was conscious of it .
" ' Oh, you ' ve kept a record of your dreams, too? That ' s odd about
the other woman because I happened to be on the sea just then' . "
" 'I was right. How do I know what you've done when you were
awake - and I thought it was only you' !"
" 'You never were more wrong in your l ife. What a little temper
you've got! Listen to me a minute, dear.' And Georgie, though he
knew it not, committed black perjury. ' It - it isn't the kind of
t hing one says to any one, because they ' d laugh; but on my word and
honour, darling, I've never been kissed by a living soul outside my
own people, in all my life. Don ' t laugh, dear . I wouldn ' t tell anyone
but you, but it's the solemn truth' . "
" 'I knew! You are you. Oh, I knew you' d come some day• . •
Here we see the constant expectany of the feminine side for the
merging into the masculine side .
11
' And you never cared or looked anywhere? Why, all the round
world must have loved you from the very minute they saw you, Boy' . "
" ' They kept it to themselves if they did. No; I never cared'."
Here we see how it is that the world is unable to appreciate the
soul, and it has no attraction for the soul. The soul can only love it-
self; that is, the m
asculine side must be absorbed in the love of the
feminine side.
" ' Oh, how can I look a t you 1n t he l i ght, before your mother -
and mine'?"
When the union was complete t hey both had the same mother, for
they were but one soul . Their mother wa s t he Oversoul, and her schem-
ing to bring them together means the merging of the two sides of the
soul - in real ity the work of the Oversoul .
" ' Are you the original, only Annieanlouise ' ?"
11
' It was what you always called me ever since the beginning.
Oh! We ' ve turned into the avenue, and we must be an hour late ' ."
" ' What does it matter? The chain goes as far back as those days?
It must, of course - of course it must. I've got to ride round with
this pestilent old bird- confound him! 'Ha! Ha!' sa id the duck,
laughing . '--Do you remember that'?"
" ' Yes , I do, flowerpots on my feet and all. We've been to-
gether all this while; and I've got to say good- bye to you till
dinner'."
Thus the consciousness of final union is brought out into mani-
festation; the fina l union of the two elements of the soul, not only in
the inner, but a l so i n the outer, objective consciousness , als o going
3 4
into the physical, and thus we see the complete merging , the two be-
coming one, and all separateness, even in the lower life, barred.
The separateness from the consciousness of time does not matter,
for the soul does not live in time.
" 'Ha ! Ha!' said the duck , laughing '--do you remember that'?"
They had been so absorbed with each other on the physical plane
that there was scarcely a consciousness of anything else . They had be-
come unconscious of everything except this state of life itself ;
everything except the ecstasy which grew out of the state of union.
And then she calls his attention to the time when she said this, and
causing him to identify himself, in consciousness, with the duck; to
become at home in the Heavenly waters, and thus swim ashore. In this
way the two experiences are united and the union between the two is
seen to be the outcome of the beginning of the duck nature in the inner
consciousness .
"But - what shall I do when I see you in the light?"
The union is now complete, but the quest ion is, when this is
brought into the outer, objective consciousness, what is to be done?
How can they maintain the state of perfect union, and this marks the
conjunction, absolutely the realization of perfect union of the mas-
culine and feminine sides of the soul - of Kipling's soul and of the
soul of every one else who goes through this experience when the
feminine side has been perfectly developed and awakened and the two
have become one, both abstr acted from the lower soul and now manifest-
ing through it outwardly, consciously.
In the work "They" by the same author is found the initiation of
those two in the perfect state of soul and the perfect Nirvanic state
and the entrance into the pure spiritual state.
35
THE MAP
The Map is in reality a diagram of the human body occultly con-
sidered. The entire scheme of the Diagram is the ascending of the sex
force to the brain and the Illumination which results therefrom. There
are two distinct movements indicated, the first being the ascending of
the sex force through the front of the body, up through the Sympathetic
Nervous System, through the Umbilicus , the Solar Plexus and the Heart,
to the Brain, and thence down the Spinal Cord to the Sacral Plexus
again; and the second being the raising of the Kundalini from its home
in the Sacral Plexus, up the Spinal Cord, through the Lumbar Plexus,
the Dorsal Plexus, the Cervical Plexus, the Medulla Oblongata, to the
Thousand Petaled Lotus of the Brain, and then the return to the Sacral
Plexus again.
The Pile is the Brushwood Pile, that is, the l atency of the sexual
fire principle. It is in a certain sense connected with the Sacral Cen-
ter, but the true locality for it is the Anus, for that is the center
of the Agni Tattwa , which is the one which accomplishes the excretion.
This fire Tattwa abides in the Anus, and in cases where it is a roused
into a state of great activity, there is a highly fevered condition of
the Anus and Rectum, which is simply due to the activity of the Fire
Principle, this being one aspect of the Electrical Sex Energy.
The Lamp- Post, standng opposite to the end of the Thirty- Mile
Ride, which is the termination of the Spinal Cord in the Sacral Plexus,
marks the coiled up Kundalini, in the Sacral Plexus. It is called the
Lamp because here is the center of the first light to dawn upon the
Soul. When the latent sex energy is here awakened and becomes active,
we have the beginning of the higher consciousness. The dates marked here
indicate the time when Kipling attained to this state of consciousness .
They show that on Sept. 15, 1889, Feb. 14, 1889, Jan. 18, 1889, Feb. 11,
1890 and June 28, 1890, he had fully realized this state. The Valley
below the Lamp-Post indicates t he normal state of consciousness before
the awakening of the Kundalini. The High Down is the state of exalted
consciousness which results from this awakening, and the Valley beyond
this, is the state of consciousness after this exaltation has subsided,
a:1d all has become normal, but this normal state is that of the active
36
Kundalini . In this state of exaltation symbolized by the Downs, he met
Them, that is, the Denizens of the unknown Continent, or Nirvana, hence
was able to become conscious of them, or rather of their reflection
which as manifesting on this Plane, Nov. 30, 1890.
After entering the Valley state he r eaches the point in con-
sciousness where the Lights f r om t he City of Sleep are to be seen.
This means that the first manifestation of the Subconsciousness State
is here dawning upon him. This state was realized Jan. 5, 1890. The next
Downs indicate the state of exaltation which succeeded this experience .
In this state of exaltation They were met and real ized again Jan. 24.
The next stage of the ascent is represented by the Low Sand Hills,
which shows a higher state of vibration and consciousness than is in-
dicated by the Downs, for we are now in the Astral Region. The City
they bur ned is the reaching of the Lumbar Plexus, and hence the opening
of the Psychic Consciousness, or rather its Ill umination. The burning
of the City is the increased vibration which is set up in it when it is
charged by the twofold sex energy, and the combustion of the old sen-
sations which leads to the Illumination of the Magnetic Body, hence the
former darkness of carnal sensation is impossible there for the future .
This state was realized Oct . 17, 1889, and May 15, 1890.
The River is the Dorsal Plexus, which, when it is forded, places
one in the region of Astral Illumination. This was forded and the Astral
Illumination realized July 14, 1889; May 15, 1890 and Aug. 27, 1890.
While in this state of Illumination they met Them again , that is, he was
again conscious of the reflected presence of the Denizens of the Un-
known Continent, May 19; July 16, and Aug. 16, 1890.
Next in order comes the Tropical Desert, showing the intense
vibratory activity manifesting in the stages of Mental and Buddhic
Illumination, which results in a fevered condition. The Railway Sta-
tion is the Cervical Plexus . When the Kundalini reaches this point,
the Mind is Illuminated, and the way is opened to the Buddhic state .
This state of illumination was reached Oct. 24 , 1889 ; Aug. 24, April 10,
and Nov. 8, 1890.
The next point is the Medulla Oblongata, the center symbolized
here by the mines. When the Kundalini reaches this center it produces
Buddhic Illumination. This Plexus is called the Mines, for the reason
that when the Kundalini energizes it, and the Buddhic Consciousness is
opened we are below the horizon of the ordinary consciousness of man,
being in the Pure A Priori Region of Reason, and hence in what man in
his ignorance terms the realm of the Unknowable . At the same time we are
in the Mines f r om which the richest treasurers of Truth are to be mined.
This state was reached Jan. 4, Jan. 17, 1889; Jan. 8, 1890, and Sept. 9,
1891. This brings him to the State of Buddhic Illumination, where he is
on a level with the House of the Sick Thing, which is the Pineal Gland,
this being the seat of Buddhi . Having reached this state he understands
37
all up to and including the Buddhic State, but the Spirit is yet unknown
to him, hence he comes to the Limit Known, the Line of Demarcation be-
ing at the point of the Pineal Gland, or House of the Sick Thing.
Beyond this lies the Unknown Continent, the region of Spiritual Il-
lumination,
Ascending the front way, via the Sympathetic Nervous System,
he enters the Steamer which is anchored by the Sand , on the Coast of
the Sea of Dreams . The Sand is that part of the body lying between the
Anus and the Generative Organs, and the Beach oarks the Generative Or-
gans as the center of the Sex Force . The Stea~er is the astral body,
which is the vehicle in which the journey is to be taken by the Sexual
Energy to the Unknown Continent. The entering of the Steamer is the rais-
ing of the Sex Energy from the physical to tte astral plane of vibra-
tion. This is accomplished on Aug. 16, 1887; Jan . 8, 1888; July 14,
1889; May 10, 1891; Feb. 11, 1891 and March 10, 1890. The journey be-
gins at this point and goes first to Hong- Kocg, that is the Umbilicus,
the center of the hundred and forty-four thot:.sanc Nadas or forces, into
which the magnetism is differentiated. This is, therefore, the Etheric
Center, and the reaching of this point simply =ea=s that the Sex Energy
assumes an Etheric Form, and thus transcends the Gross Physical.
Thence the ascent is towards Java or tr.e Solar Plexus . On the
way there, that is, while the Sex Energy is pass~~g ~rom the Umbilicus
to the Solar Pl exus, there was something seen June 18, 1889; Oct . 15,
1889, and Feb . 10, 1890. Java being the Solar Ple~~s , the center of the
Prana or Life Principle, the reaching of t hat poi~t ~ndicates that the
Sex Principle had now passed from the Etheric to the Vital Form .
Thence the journey is taken from Java to Lily- ::..ock, that is the
Heart, which is the center of the Astral Body, hence reaching this
point means the transmutation of the Sex Energy into the Astral Form.
This state was realized Aug. 15, 1887; Jan. 8, 1888; May 10, 1889;
July 14, 1889; and Oct . 3, 1890. Then he comes to the Unknown Coast ,
that is, to a region which cannot be entered in the Astral Body, May 13,
1889, and also Oct . 19, 1890. At this point the Vessel is abandoned,
that is, the Astral Body is left behind, and clothed only in his Mental
Body, he enters the realm of the Unknown Continent , the Silent Watcher,
or the Seat of the Spirit . The Sex Energy is now active on the Mental
Plane. On May 1, the Coast was seen. The Mental Body, however, could
not find its way through this Unknown Continent, and therefore , he
gets lost in the depths of this wilderness Aug. 15, 1891, and Sept. 18,
1881 .
The entrance of the House of the Sick Thing, the Pineal Gland,
=eans that the Sex Energy was transmuted into the form of Buddhi, and
~h·..1s d~scarding the Mental Body, and clothed only in the Buddhi, or true
Sou!., !:e had reached the highest state which it was possible for him
to reach without bee oming one of the Denizens of the Unknown Continent,
38
that is, entering the state of Spiritual Initiation. The fact that
Annieanlouise was a lways with him at this point shows that both the
Electrical or Masculine, and the Magnetic or Feminine sides of the Sex
Principle were active on the Buddhic Plane . This state was realized
Aug. 15, 1889; Aug . 9, 1889; Jan. 15, 1890; Nov. 7, 1890 ; March 8, 1891,
and June 7, 1891. At this point they were frightened by Them, the
Denizens of the Unknown Continent , and started on the Thirty- Mile Ride
which begins in Mountains and Tunnels, that is, in the bones of the
neck and head, just below the Medulla Oblongata, and continues through
the Vertabrae of the Spinal Column. This Thirty- Mile Ride is the Passage
of the Masculine Force down the right side and the Feminine Force down
the left side of the Spinal Cord. The Thirty- Mile Ride ends at the
terminus of the spinal cord. They there dismount , symbolizing the fact
that t he two energies are now becoming passive again. Then they walk
over to the Lamp- Post, that is, the Sex Energies a re both stored up in
the Sacral Plexus, with the Curled-up Kundalini .
It will be noted that these dates are not in the order in which
we would expect them to occur, but this is not a serious disadvantage,
for the reas on that it simply indicates that the date assigned to each
place is the time when he was first conscious at that stage, and does
not indicate the first time that he realized that point in the sense
of the force reaching it . The fact that some of the lower points were
not reached until after some of those above them were reached, simply
means that he was conscious on some of the higher principles before he
was on some of those below them. It must also be borne in mind that he
was traveling on both journeys about the same time, and not that he
went the Spinal Nerve Route until that was completely finished and then
began the Sympathetic Nerve Route. It requires the completion of both
of these routes of activity to complete the initiation of the Sex Prin-
ciples into the Soul State, and their resultant Union as One. The
figures at the side of the Map, indicate the different dates when the
complete journey was made. These dates, June 17, 1889; Nov. 15, 1889;
Feb . 18 , 1890; Aprill5, 1890; July2, 1890;Aug. 13,1890, andJulyl4 ,
1891, mark the dates on which the complete journey was t aken and hence
it was during the years of 1889, 1890 and 1891, that Kipling was com-
pleting his initiation. We have some dates in 1887, and 1888 when some
aspects of the consciousness was being realized, and the finishing
touches were not put upon it until in 1893, when the marriage of the
two sides of his soul was consummated.
In this way has Kipling shown us the true history of the Illumina-
tion and Marriage of his own Soul, and to the one who is able to read
the dates and symbols, a clearer history of the Initiation of one of
the Greatest Souls living, could not possibly be given, let one try
as he may. At the same time that this is the History of Kipling ' s In-
itiation, it is at the same time a perfect guide book, for those enter-
39
ing this course, showing them just how the Union is to be consummated
and indicating the meaning of each experience which they may be called
upon to go through. More than this it is such a guide book written by
one of the Elder Brothers of Humanity, drawn from his own Soul Expe-
rience, for the benefit of those coming on behind.
40
RALEIGH BOOKS ANO
LESSONS
Complete list of the Hermetic works by Dr. A. S. Raleigh, published in book form
and which will be sent postpaid at prices listed:
The Central Spiritual Sun and
The Virgin of the World .................... .... .......$ 1.00
The Lakshmi Avatar, Lakshmi and the Gopis. . ............. 1.00
The L aw of Karma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
The Two Paths or the Parting of the Ways . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00
W oman and Super-Woman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.00
Shepherd of Men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.50
Stanzas of Dzjn (Theogenesis) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
Philosophia Hermetica . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Scientifica Hermetica . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Hermetic Art . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Philosophy of Alchemy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Science of Alchemy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Speculative Art of Alchemy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Hermetic Science of Motion and Number . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Hermetic Fundamentals Revealed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Hermetic Consciousness Unveiled .. .. ....... ... .. ...... ... 10.00
Magic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Occult Geometry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Phrenogarten Course (explains the brain) ... . .. ........ .... 10.00
Metaphysical Healing, Volume I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Metaphysical Healing, Volume II . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Interpretation to Rudyard Kipling's Story, Brushwood Boy
and the Map . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Interpretation to Rudyard Kipling's Story, They . . . . . . . . . . . 7.50
Manuscript Lessons, nicely typed and bound
The Secret Sermon on the Mount or the Way of Rebirth ... .. 10.00
Interpretation to Henry Van Dyke's Story, The Other Wise
Man . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
We also make a epecialty of rare, out-of-print books along the line of Occultism,
Mysticism, the Kahalla, the Tarot, Magic, Alchemy, Symbolism, Mythology, Rosicru-
cianism, Hermeticism and kindred subjects. A circular showing titles and prices of
our list of rare, out-of-print books will be sent free of cost upon request.
HERMETIC PUBLISHING COMPANY
3006 Lake Park Ave. Chicago, Ill., U. S. A.
