{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1841__dendy___philosophy_of_mystery.pdf","mytitle":"Philosophy Of Mystery","mylang":"de"}
P H I L 0 S () P H Y
OF
MYSTERY.
In
\~r'AL'fER COOPER DENDY,
JELLOW AND HONORARY LIBRARIAN Of TliE JUCDICA.L SOflET T O!F t.o;~J)O ~·
SI::SIOR SURGEO:S TO Tlll'. ROT~L INPIR:MART VOR e!!ILDRF:N,, &c, &;c;
LONDON:
LONG:MA~, OR:ME, BROWN, GREEN, & I,ONG)L\\~
PATER~OSTEft ROW.
18-U.
tilL •d·:nr Al\D RnJN otos, l'nl~TP. It:. ,
St.•John's Squnre, Loudon.
TO HIS COUSINS,
STEPHEN DENDY, ESQ.
OF PARIS,
AND
CHARLES COOK DENDY, ESQ.
OJ' SOUTHGATE HOUSE, CHICHESTER;
AND TO HIS BROTHER,
ED'VARD STEPHEN DENDY,
THIS VOLUME IS INSCRIBED,
IN TOKEN OF THE AFFECTIONATE REGARD
OF THE AUTHOR.
C 0 NrrEN'rS.
THE CHALLENGE.
PAGE
Scenery on the Wye-A Ghost Seer- Tintem Abbey-Faith and Scepticism
in the reality of Phantoms.........................- .•••••••••-........................... 1-5
NATURE AND MOTIVES OF GHOSTS.
Notions of the Ancienu regarding the nature of Ghosts-Confidence of the
Ancients in their appearance-Modem Incidents in illustration of real
appearance-Qualities of Ghosts-Motives of Apparitions-Ancient and
modem Stories................................................................................... 6-l I
PROPHECY OF SPECTRES.
Ancient spectral Prophecy- Modem Stories in illustration of prophetic
Spectres-Philosophy and Poesy of Shakspere-Holy inftuel!ce of Spectral
Vlsitations-5tories ofapparently special in1luence of the Deity............... 18-33
ILLUSION OF SPECTRES.
Reasons for early faith in Phantoms-Modem errors regarding classic Super-
stitions-Shallowness and Fallacy of modem Incidents-Explanation of
Ghost Stories by Coincidence-Incidents in proofof Coincidence-Proneness
of intellectual Minds to credulity and exaggeration-Innocent invention of
an incident at Bowood................................;........................................ 3·1-51
PHANTASY FROl\11\l&'llTAL ASSOCIATION.
lntluence ofinterestinglocalities-Detinition of a Phantom-An intense idea
-Demonomania-Stings of Conscience-Curious effect ofpeculiar study or
intense thought-Darkness and Obscurity-Romance of reality-A mys-
terious incident. ........................................................................_....... 52-66
PHANTASY FROM CEREBRAL EXCITEMENT.
Second Sight-National propensity to the Sight-Romance and Poetry of the
Mountains-Morbid predisposition to Second Sight-Unearthly Visions on
the eve of Dissolution-Glimpses of Reason in dying 1\Ianiacs................. 67-i9
a
X CO:\TE:\TS.
PHA;.;TASY FR0.:\1 CEREBRAL CONGESTlOK
Phantom~ vf intellectual Minds-Illusion of Opium-Illustrations ol 2\ar·
cotic Intluence....................................M••············································ t~u-88
POETIC PliANTASY, OR FRENZY.
haspiration of Poesy and Painting-Shak.spere-Fuseli-Blake-Philosophy
and Madness-Illusion of Tasso-Tmth of Poesy-8plendid illusions at
the onset of Mania-Melancholy constitution and decay of Poetic :Minds-
Letter ofa Cheromaniac-Sensibility-Unhappy consequences ofcherishing
Romance-Fragment of John Keats...................................................... 89-.uo
PHANTASY FROl\1 SYMPATHY WITH THE BRAIN.
Pllilosophy of Moral Causes-Effect of thought and of the function of the
Stomach in producing phyoical changes in the Brain-Stories in proofof
this influence-Illusions from Derangements of Vision-Curious case& of
ocular Spectra from peculiar conditions of the Eye.................................-101-112
MYSTERIOUS FORYS AND SIGNS.
Stories ofSupernatural Appearances.........................................................113-122
ANALYSIS AND CLASSIFICATION Of SPECTRAL ILJ.l'SION.
Credulity-Arrangement of Causes of Spectral Illusion-Illustration of Atmo-
spheric Illusions-Natural Phenomena-Fatlt Morgana-8cbattenman of
the Bracken-Romance of unlettered minds........................·..................I23-H6
ILLl.7SIONS OF ART.
Monkish lmP?s~es-Optical Toys-spontaneous Combustion....................H 1-146
ILLUSTRATION OF MYSTERIOUS SOl'NDS.
Elemental Causes-Impositions at Woodstock- Tedworth- Cock lane-
Subterranean Sounds-Currents of Air-!llemnon-Phonic Instnunenls-
Vocal curiosity in young Richmon<L.............. ·······•················-·······"··..147-154
FAIRY MYTHOLOGY.
Origin of Faery-Legends of the Mythology of \arious Climes-Cauld 1.1\d of
Hilton...............................................................................................155-lf3·;.
DEMONOLOGY.
Classic and Indian 1\lyUwlogy-EmOOdying a Demon-Stories >austrative
ofthe Superstitions oflreiand and Comwall-Legend of the ChangeHn~-
Poetry of Nature-Pread<\mite Dei.ngs................................................mlod-17#
NATURE OF SOl.'L AND MIND.
p5ychology of the Greeks Md of the Modnns-Essenct· of Phrenl'l~f•g;·~I"".;.n:J
Brougham-Priestley- ·Paley ·-.Johnr.m1· -Mo-ck> of S<:•pultur~-
Atbeism-Dcity-llindu Mytlmlok,"}'~ocnile Inteilect.....•••••.•.,.,........." .•. II'S-U.IS!
CONTENTS.
NATURE OF SLEEP.
Unconsciousness ofSleep-·Necessity of Slumber-Malady of Colllns-Somno·
Ieney of the Brute and of Savages-Periods of Sleep-Sleeplessness and its
Xl
Antidotes..........................................................................................1!13-20·1
SUBLIMITY AND IMPERFECTION OF DREAMING.
Unconsciousness of the Dream-Arguments on this question-Episode of a
dreaming Li~e....................................................................................205-213
PROPHECY OF DREAMS.
Ancient Prophetic Dreams-Stories ofmodem Prophecies in Dreaming........214-222
MORAL CAUSES ·oF DREAMING.
Associations of Dreaming-Incongruous Combinations-Source of Ideas in
Dreams-Innate ldea-Undreaming Minds-Flitting of the Spirit-Fallacy
of Mental Energy in the Dream-Illusion of Dreams-Marmontc1.............223-235
ANACHRONISM AND COINCIDENCE OF DREAMS.
Celerity of Ideas in the Dream-Sacred Records of Dreams-Danger of
profane Discussion of Scripture- Fallacy of Dreams - Consequences of
Credulity in Dreams............................................................................236-256
MATERIAL CAUSES OF DREAMS.
Blending of Metaphysics and Philosophy-Confusion of ancient and modem
Classifications of Dreams-Curious Cases of suspended Memory-Anecdotes
ofTenacity of Memory-Physiology of Memory-Ghost of an amputated
Limb.................................................................................................257-269
INTENSE IMPRESSION.-MEMORY.
Curious Cases of Associations-Deranged Memory-Dreams of Animals-
Poetic Illustrations..............................................................................270-280
INFLUENCE OF DARK BLOOD IN THE BRAIN.
Conditions of the Drain-Analogy of Dreaming and Mania-Sympathetic
Causes of Dreaming-Repletion-Effects of Posture in inducing Dreams-
Phrenological Illustrations...................................................................281-29·1
INCUBUS OR NIGHT-MARE.
Illustrative Incidents-Night-mare of the Mind.........................................295-303
SOMNILOQUENCE.-SOMNAl\IBULISM.
Stories of Sleep-talking-Stories of Sleep-walking-Changes of disposition in
Somnambulism-Abeyance of Memory during the Interval-Exactness and
Energy during Somnambulism-Concentration of Power-Unconsciousness
-Analysis of Sleep-walking- Theory of llejle:x Aclio11 of the Nervous
System-Irresistibility-Disease of the Brain in Somnambulists...............304-328
xii CON'I'El'iTS.
lMlTATIVE MONOMANIA.
Dance of the Middle Ages-Tarantulism-saint Vitus' Da.nce-Tigretier-
Lycanthropy-Fanaticism during the Commonwealth-Moravians-The
Kent Tragedy-stories of Imitative Suicide-Effects of Stramonium, and
of Gaseous Inhalation.........................................................................32!1-340
REVERIE.
Abstraction of Idiocy-Cretinism-Wandering of the Mind-Concentrative-
ness-Anecdotes illustrative of Illusive Abstraction................................Ml-352
ABSTRACTION OF INTELLECT.
Anecdotes in illustration-Brown Study-Apathy-Heroism-Reverie of
Philosophy-Sonata di Diavolo-Reverie at Caerphilly-Intense Impres-
sion-Abstraction of Deep Study-Reverie of the DYmg..........................353-366
SOMNOLENCE.-TRANCE.-CATALEPSY.
Description of Trance-Legends of Deep Sleepers-Stories of Modem Trances
-Analogies from Intense Impression-Periodical Catalepsy.....................367-377
PREMATURE INTERME:NT.-RESUSCITATION.
Stories in Illustration-Romance, Life in Death-Causes of Resuscitation-
Disunion of Mind and Body-Insensibility of the Decollated Head-sensa-
tions during Hanging and Drowning-Case o{ Dr. Adam Clarke.............378-392
TRANSMIGRATION.-ANALYSIS OF TRANCE.
State of the Spirit after Death-Fables of Transmigration-Superstition in
India and England-Tenacity of Life-Hybemation-Sleep of Plants-
Physiology of::rrance...........................................................................393-40·1
MESMERISM.
Its origin-Commissions for its investigation-Caspar Hauser-Sensations of
Magnetism-Magnetized Trees-Operations during Magnetic Trance-
Transference of Senses-Mineral Traction-Clairvoyance-Trance of Santa
Theresa-Prophetess of Prevorst-Magnetic Aura-Personal Sympathy-
Socrates-Fascino--Prince Hohenlohe...................................................405-430
SIBYLLINE INFLUENCE.
Occult Science-A Gipsy-spells and Channs-Relics-Ordeals-Pbilosophy
of Prophetic Fulfilment-Melancholy effects of Prophecy-Astrology~
Conclusion.........................................................................................431-4·t3
THE
PHILOSOPHY OF ~iYSTERY.
THE CHALLENGE.
" There are more things in heav'n and earth, Horatio,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy."-HAMLET.
THERE was a shallop floating on the 'Vye, among the
gray rocks and leafy woods of Chepstow. 'Vithin it
were two fair girls reclining : the one blending the ro-
mantic wildness of a maid of Italy with the exquisite
purity of English nature ; the other illuming, with
the devotion of a vestal, the classic beauty of a Greek.
There was a young and learned bachelor sitting at
the helm. Study had stamped an air of thoughtfulness
on his brow ; yet a smile was ever playing on his lips,
as his heart felt the truth and influence of the beautiful
life around him.
Listen, gentle reader, we pray thy courtesy and thy
patience, as a rude unskilful pen traces the breathed
thoughts of these wanderers of the 'Vye. ·
CASTALY. 'Ve have roamed, dear Ida, among the
classic lands of the far-off ~fediterranean : we have
B
2 'rilE CHALLENGE.
looked, from her pinnacles ofsnow, on the silvery gleami-
ness of Switzerland, and from purple sierras on the sunny
splendour of Spain ; yet these English meadows, 'vith
their fringes of wild bloom, come o'er the heart with all
the freshness of an infant's dream. Yon majestic crag
of 'Vyndcliff is flinging its purple shadows athwart the
water, and floods of golden glory are streaming through
the beech-woods of Piercefield : and see, our little sail,
white as the wing of a swan, is wafting us towards
Abbey Tintern, along this beautiful valley, where the
river almost doubles on itself; meandering among its
mead-flowers and its mosses, as loth to leave its lux-
uriant bed. Listen! the breath of evening is among
the trees that dip in the ripple of the 'Vye their leaves
of shivering gold. What a scene for minions of the
moon to revel in ! Say, shall we charm the lingering
hours of this midsummer night among the ivied clois-
ters of the abbey ? But wlrere is Astrophel, our
moon-struck student, who, like Chaucer's scholar,
keeps
. - " at his bed's head,
A twenty books clothed in blaek and red,
Of Aristotle and his philosophy t" -
They have not taught him courtesy, or he would not
steal away from the light of our eyes to commune with
owls and ivy-bushes.
Yet we promise him our smile for your sake, Evelyn.
Indeed, I am thinking his mysteries will chime in
admirably with the solemnity of this lone abbey. 'Ve
appoint him master of our revels.
EvELYN. Let your smile be in pity, fair Castaly, on
the illusions ofAstrophel. Ensconced in his dark closet,
within a charmed ,ring of black-letter folios, he has
wofully warped his studies, and has reacl himself into
the belief that he is a GIFTED SEER. Yet love him,
THE CIIALLEXGE.
lady, for his virtues; for his history is a very paradox.
His heart is melting with charity for the beings of
earth, yet his mind is half-weaned from their fellowship.
At his imminent peril, he leaps into the Isis to save a
drowning boy, and the world calls him misanthrope,
withal. It is the fate indeed of many a cloistered
scholar, whose
- " desires are dolphin like,
And soar above the element they live in."
Such is Astrophel.
InA. He looks his part to perfection. There is a
shadowy expression in his dark eye, as it were poring
over the volume of his own thoughts. Beneath the
slender shaft of yon eastern window, behold this
proselyte to the sublime science of shadows. He
approaches.
Ev. The hour is on him yet.-Astrophel!
AsTROPHEL. Whisper, and tread lightly, Evelyn,
for this is haunted ground. Underneath this velvet
turf rest the mouldering bones of a noble. I have
held communion in my slumber with the spirit by
whic~ they were once animated and moved; and the
mysteries of the tomb have been unfolded to me. The
eidolon of Roger Bigod has thrice come across my
sight.
CAsT. A gJ!ost!
Ev. And Astrophel believes the truth of this vision !
Such phantasy might well become the Cistercian
monks, who once stalked along these gloomy cloisters,
but not an Oxford scholar.
AsTR. And why ~ot an Oxford scholar, Evelyn?
I do believe in the existence of beings out of the com-
mon course of nature ; and, indeed, the history of the
world has ever proved the general leaning to this belief,
and my own mind feels that this universal adoption is
B2
4 TilE CHA LLE::\GE.
a proof of reality of existence. Smile at, or reason
with me, you will not shake my faith, for I believe it
true; and even Johnson confessed, that " although all
argument might be ~o-ainst it, yet all belief is for it/'
Ev. The diffusion of this fallacy;_Astrophel, proves
only the universal sameness of the constitution of mind.
Yo~ may, indeed, cite the high authority of Johnson,
that " a belief in the apparitions of the dead could
become universal only by its truth." Yet, if this one
word, appm·ition, be rightly interpreted, it will not
imply the e/cistence of real phantoms, however ethereal,
before the eye, for the notion so construed would have
been a grand error of Imlac; no, he adopts an indefinite
expression, conscious that mere metaphysics were not
illustrative of this subtle question.
There was one Theophilus Insulanus, who,~ think,
calls all those who have not faith in phantoms, irre-
ligious, because,. forsooth, "tpese ghosts are neYer
employed on subjects of frivolous concern." I may be
under the ban of this flimsy enthusiast, but you will
not gain me as a proselyte, Astrophel, for, like our
great poet, I have seen too many ghosts myself.
Yet I know some few self-created wizards, who have
solved to their hearts' content those two grand mys-
teries, the real existence and the purpose of ghostly
visitations ; who, like Owain Glyndwr, "can call spirits
from the vasty deep," and even expect that they will
"come when they do call for them." Others have
laboured under self-glamourie, and believed themselves
magicians, until put to the proof. I remember the
painter, Richard Cosway, was under this illusion; and,
when the old cynic Northcote desire(}. him to raise Sir
Joshua Reynolds, the pseudo-m~ous confessed himself
foiled, by advancing this simple excuse, "I would, were
it not sinful!"
It were well if these monomaniacs ~vere laid in the
1'111~ C IIA LI.E::\ G E.
famous bed of St. Hilary at Poictiers; for there, with
the muttering of a prayer or two, as the legend tells us,
madmen may be cured.
But, in truth, the light of divine reason has so far
dispelled these fancies for the supernatural, that very
few of us, I presume, are confident in the hope of
raising a ghost when we want one; or of laying it in
the Red Sea for a hundred years, by two clergymen,
with "bell, book, and candle," and scraps of mystic
Latin, when it becomes rude or troublesome.
· InA. 'Viii you not concede that many VIsiOnaries
have believed, and written from pure and even holy
motives?
Ev. There is no doubt of this, lady; yet while it has
fanned the flame of superstition in minds of lower intel-
lect, with many, the endeavour to prove too muclt has
marred these motives, and weakened faith, even in the
credulous ; so that we may hope the wild romances of
Beaumont, and Bt.irthogge, and Baxter, and Aubrey, and
Blanville, and that arch-mystagogue Moreton (whose
book is half full of prolix dialogues between ghosts and
ghost-seers), will soon be mere objects of interest and
curiosity to the black-letter bibliomaniac and the more
erudite legend-hunter.
CAsT. We will not submit to your anathema, Evelyn.
This learned clerk has challenged our faith. What a
treasury of secrets might he unfold to us from the
mystic tomes of antiquity, the wonders of profane
psychology; from the tales of Arabia to Vatheck and
the Epicurean-from the classic mythology of Homer to
the wild romances of his humble prototype Ossian.
Let it be a matt!h: we will listen, Astrophel, ~vhile
you " unsphere the spirit of Plato ;" and here we sit in
judgment, on the velvet throne of this our court of
Tintern.
NATURE AND MOTIVES OF GHOSTS.
••In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets.''
HAMLET, 4to. B.
AsTR. It is not from the, sources of mythology
alone, that I adduce my illustrations of the reality of
ghosts, but from the myriads of incidents which ancient
and modern history record. Yet may I well crave your
courtesy for the scraps of fable, and perchance of im.:..
posture, that may unwittingly creep into my discourse.
Listen to me.
It was believed by the ancients that each body pos-
sessed three ghosts-to be released on its dissolution.
The manes at once emigrated to the region of Pluto :
the spiritus ascended to the skies : the umbra or shade
still wandered on the earth. Or, as the poet has more
comprehensively sung,
" His duo sunt homini, manes, caro, spiritus, umbra ;
Quatuor ista loci bis duo suscipim{t :
Terra tcgit carnem, tumulum circumvolat umbra,
Orcus habet manes, SI>iritus astra petit."
~fcaning that there are four principles in man, and this
~ATt:ItE OF GHOSTS. 1
is their destiny :-the jleslt to earth; the gltost to the
tomb; the soul to Hades; and .the spirit to heaven.
The queen of Carthage, confiding in this creed,
threatens .tEneas that her umbra will haunt him upon
earth, while her manes will rejoice in his torments.
The notions of other mystic scholars are thus re-
corded by old Burton, in his "Anatomy of ~Ielancholy: "
as those· of Surius-" that there be certain monsters
of hell and places appointed for the punishment ofmen's
souls, as at Hecla in Iceland, where the ghosts of dead
'men are familiarly seen, and sometimes talk with the
living. Saint Gregory, Durand, and the rest of the
schoolmen, derive as much from .tEtna in Sicily, Lipara,
Hiera-and those volcanoes in America, and that fear-
ful mount Heckleberg in Norway, where lamentable
screeches and howlings are continually heard, which
strike a terror to the auditors : fiery chariots are con-
tinually seen to bring in the souls ofmen in the likeness·
of crows, and devils ordinarily goe in and out." And
then, to bring this phantasy to a climax by a pandemo-
nium of ghosts, listen to Bredenbachius, in his "Peri-
granions in the Holy Land," where "once a yeare dead
bodies arise about ,~!arch, and walk, and after awhile
hide themselves again : thousands of people come yearly
to see them." And this reminds me of the phantom of
old Booty, 'vho at the hour of his death in England was
seen by the crew of a ship running into the crater of
Stromboli in the remote "Niediterranean,-a story which
even in the present century was made the subject of
discussion in a justice court.
Now, you must know, the ancients believed that
only those who died of the sword possessed this pri-
vilege. ·
These are the words of Flavius Josephus : "\Vhat
man of virtue is there that does not know that those
souls which are severed from their fleshly bodies in
6
8 NATURE OF GHOSTS.
battles by the sword are received by the ether, that
purest of elements, and joined to that company which
are placed among the stars :-that they become good
demons and propitious heroes, and shew themselves· as
such to their posterity afterwards; while upon those
souls that wear away in and with their distempered
bodies, comes a subterranean night to dissolve them to
nothing, and a deep oblivion to take away all the re-
membrance of them? And this, notwithstanding they
be clean from all spots and defilements ofthis world ; so
that in this case the soul at the same time comes to the
utmost bounds of its life, and of its body, and of its
memorial also."
The mystery of the nature of these ghosts I may not
presume to define ; but there are many learned writers
of antiquity who believed in their ·materiality, and
broached the intricate question of their quality and
formation.
The alchymist Paracelsus writes of the astral element
or spirit-one of the two bodies which compose our
nature : being more ethereal, it survived some time after
the death of the more substantial form, and sometimes
became the familiar spirit of the magician. And what
writes Lucretius the Epicurean to illustrate his credence
in apparitions ? That the surfaces of bodies are con-
stantly thrown off by a sort of centrifugal force ; that
an exact image is often presented to us by this surface
coming off as it were entire, like the cast skin of the
rattle-snake or the shell of the chrysalis; and thus the
ideas of our absent or departed friends strike on the
mind.
The olden chymists, in the age of Louis XIV.
accounted for spectral forms by the saline atoms of a
putrid corpse being set free, and combining ~o-ain in
their pristine form. Listen, I pray yon,. to this grave
philosophy of an abstn1se essay, writ in 179/t..
~ATURE OJ:.
~ GHOSTS.
"The apparitions of souls departed do, by the virtue
of their formative plastic power, frame unto themselves
the vehicles in which they appear out of the moisture
of their bodies. So ghosts do often appear in church-
yards, and that but for a short time, to wit, before the
moisture is wholly dried up."
" Such are thoso thick and gloomy shadows dam},,
Oft seen in charnel-vaults and sepulchres,
Lingering and sitting by a. new-made grave."
And we read in the c~ronicles, that " during the
time the ancients burned, not buried their dead, there
was no such appearance of ghosts as is now."
Why waves the coarse grass ranker over the grave?
It is touched by the larva of the rotting carcase, which,
ascending from its putrid chrysalis, a butterfly,or Psyche,
flits awhile like an ephemera, and drops again into the
vault.
. A sentiment something like this, I believe, was the
grand cause of the enrolment of the mummies by the
Egyptians; for they thought while the body remained
entire, the soul was flitting about it: and the early
Christians even believed that a portion at least of the
sourremained, uncorrupted by the body.
Evelyn will grant that among the Romans there was
a devout wish to be buried near venerated beings and
saints, an emanation from whose bodies, they believed,
would inspire the hearts of the believers.
And here I will relate a story from the Dinan Journal
of 1840, and also the fragment of a very mysterious
tale told with all the solemnity of a faithful chro-
nicle.
"'ve had the curious spectacle of a long procession
of girls from Pleudihcus, passing through our streets
to the chapel of Saint Anne, to offer up prayers for the
repose of the soul of the mother of one of them, who
10 XA.TURE 01<' GHOSTS.
has been dead twenty-two years, and who every five
years has appeared to her daughter, urging her to have
masses said for her. This time the troubled spirit pre-
scribed the day, hour, and place of the service, and even
the precise dresses she would have the votaries wear.
Consequently, they were all lightly clothed 'in white,
although the rain fell and the streets were full of mud.
-Some of the inhabitants of Dinan a.ffinn that they
saw the ghost of the deceased, marching at the head of
the procession to the door of the chapel, where it
remained till the mass was finished, and then suddenly
vanished."
Returning from the harbour to Cadiz with some
Spanish donas, the Baron Geramb heard a voice in
French, crying, "Save me ! Help, help !" but at the time
he took little or no heed of the matter. On the morrow
was seen on the shore of the harbour a body on a black
board, with lighted tapers by its side, which was covered
by the Baron's direction. During a tempest in the
evening, some secret impulse directed him ~o-ain to the
shore. Before his bewildered sight arose from the spot
a shapeless · phantom wrapped in the black winding-
sheet which he had provided.
The phantom moved along with gigantic strides,
assuming a globular form, and then, whirling in spiral
circles, bounded off, and appeared at a distance like
a giant. The spectre led the Baron to the streets of
Cadiz, its course being accompanied by a noise as of
the tinkling of autumnal leaves. In Cadiz a door
suddenly opened with force, and the spectre rushed
like lightning into the house, and plunged into the
cellar. There was the sound of deep groaning, and the
Baron descended into the vault: there lay the corpse
naked and livid, and on it was prostrated an aged man,
uttering the deep sighs of abject misery and despair.
In a gloomy corner of this cave of death leaned the
~ATUUE OF GHOSTS. 11
}Jhantom, revolving in its .spiral whirls, and then
changing to a floating cloud of light; and then there
beamed forth the pale features of a youth, undulating
as if on the bosom of a wave, which murmured in the
ear. Then came the chaunting of anthems and prayers
for the dead, and a glittering young girl in white robes
glided into the cellar, and knelt in devotion by the
body. '
The phantom-and so the legend proceeds.
There is a wondrous mystery, I grant, enveloping
this story; but if there be any truth in that alchymic
re-animation, Palingenesy-
" If chemists from a rose's ashes,
Can raise the rose itself in glasses ;"
nay, if the sparkling diamond shines forth from a mass
of charcoal, why may not the ashes of a body be made
into a ghost, illustrative of the philosophy of substan-
tial apparitions, adopted by Kircher,-a body rebuilt,
after being resolved, for a time. into its constituent
elements? The Parisian alchymists of the seventeenth
century, indeed, demonstrated this mystery, and raised
a phrenix from its ashes. They submitted to the pro-
cess of distillation some earth from the cemetery of the
Innocents; during which ceremony, they were scared
by the appearance of perfect human shapes, struggling
in the glass vessels they were employing. And, lastly,
Dr. Ferriar thus deposes :-A ruffian was executed, his
body dissected, and his skull pulverised by an anato-
mist. The student, who slept in the chamber of
experiment, saw, in the night-time, a progressive
getting together of the fragments, until the criminal
became perfect, and glided out at the door. ·
And here is a legend of deeper mystery still.
There was a merry party collected in a town in
France, and amongst all the gay lords and ladies there
12 .NATURE OF GHOSTS.
assembled, there was none who caused so great a sen-
sation as a beautiful young lady, who danced, played,
and sang in the most exquisite style. There were only
two unaccountable circumstances belonging to her :
one was, that she never went to church or attended
family prayers ; the other, that she always wore a
slender, black velvet band or _girdle round her waist.
She was often asked about these peculiarities, but she
always evaded the interrogatories; and still, by her
amiable manners and beauty won all hearts. One
evening, in a dance, her partner saw an opportunity
of pulling the lo~p of her little black girdle behind: it
fell to the ground, and immediately the lady became
pale as a sheet; then, gradually shrunk ~nd shrunk,
till at length nothing was to be seen in her place but
a small heap of grey ashes.
And what think you now, Evelyn?
Ev. I think your candle burned very blue, Astro-
phel, when you were poring over these midnight
legends; yet, I believe, I may, by and by, explain the
story of your Lady of the Ashes ;-all, excepting the
mystery of the sable girdle, But, methinks, you should
not have stopped short of the qualities by which we
may recognise the genus of these phantoms. . There
was once, as I have heard, a ghost near Cirencester,
which vanished in a very nice perfume, and a melo-
dious twang; and Master Lilly, therefore, concluded
it to be a fairy: and Propertius, I know, writes of ano-
ther ; and he decided, that the scent diffused on her dis-
appearance, proclaimed her to be a goddess ! Glanville
has set himself to argue upon, nay, demonstrate, all
questions regarding materiality and immateriality, and
the nature of spirits; puzzling us with mathematical
diagrams, and occupying fifteen chapters on the nature
of the witch of Endor: and Andrew l\foreton, too, in
his "Secrets;" comments, with pedantic profanation,
XA'l'Urn::. OF GIIOS1'S. 13
on the "infernal paw-wawing of this condemned erea-
ture." Coleridge, and even Sir 'Valter, who had a
mighty love of legends, propose a question, whether
she was a ventriloquist or an aristocratic fortune-
teller, or an astrologer or a gipsy, imposing on the
credulity of Saul. And yet that same Sir 'Valter
very shrewdly suggested to Sir 'Villiam Gell the manu-
factw·e of a ghost, with a thin sheet of tin, painted
white, so that by half a turn the spectre would instantly
vanish.
CAsT. A ghost, 1 believe, according to the rules of
phantasy, ought to be without matter or form, or indeed
any sensible properties. Yet are very serious tales
related of guns bursting when fired at them, and swords
broken by their contact, and of loud voices issuing
from filmy phantoms through which the moonbeams
are seen to glimmer. A spirit ought, of course, to
communicate with us in another way than that which
we know, and possess those ethereal faculties of creep-
ing through chinks or keyholes, and of resuming its
airy form, like the sylph of Belinda, when the "glitter-
ing forfex" had cut it in twain. An exquisite morceau
of such a phantom just now flits across my memory.
It is. of two old ladies dwelling in two border castles in
Scotland. One of these dames was visited by the
spectre bust of a man; and the other by the lower half
of him. Which had the better bargain, I know not,
but I believe -
AsTR. Nay, it were not difficult, lady, to overwhelm
me with tales like yours-the idle and UIJ.meaning gos-
sip of a winter's night: but there are many spectral
visitations so intimately associated with events, that the
faculty even of prophecy cannot be doubted. Bodine,
as Burton writes, is fully satisfied that " these souls of
men departed, if corporeal, are of some shape, and that
absolutely round, like sun and moone, because that is
14 liOTIVES OF GHOSTS.
the most perfect form: that they can assume other
aerial bodies, all manner of shapes at their pleasure,
appear in what likeness they will themselves: that they
are most swift in motion, can pass many miles in an
instant, and so likewise transform bodies of others into
what form they please, and, "-ith admirable celerity,
remove them from place to place : that they can repre-
sent castles in the ayre, armies, spectrums, prodigies,
and such strange objects to mortal men's eyes; cause
smells, savors, deceive all the senses ; foretel future
events, and do many strange miracles."
Then the eccentric Francis Grose has thus summed
up many of their wondrous attributes :-
"The spirit of a person deceased is either commis-
sioned to return for some especial errand, such as the
discovery of a murder, to procure restitution of ~ands,
or money unjustly withheld from an orphan or widow :
or, having committed some injus,tice whilst living, can-
not rest till that is redressed. Sometimes the occasion
of spirits revisiting this world is to inform their heir
in what secret place or private drawer in an old trunk
they had hid the title-deeds of the estate, or where, in
troublesome times, they had buried the money and
plate. Some ghosts of murdered persons, whose
bodies have been secretly buried, cannot be at ease till
their bones have been taken up and deposited in sacred
ground, with all the rites of Christian burial." The
ghost of Hamlet's father walked on the platform at
Elsineur, to incite his son to revenge his murder; and
many modern phantoms have enlivened the legends of
our local histories, bent on the same mysterious
errand.
The mythology of the ancients, and the fairy super-
stition of our own land, are also replete with legends of
these apparitions. The rites of sepulture ~vere essential
for the repose of the manes. If the body was not
MOTIVES 01<' GHOSTS. 15
quietly entombed, the soul was wandering on the banks
of Styx for one hundred years, ere it was permitted
Charon to·' fen-y it across the river. Thus spoke the
shade of Patroclus to Achilles, in his dream:
" Thou sleep'st, Achilles, and Patroclus, erst
Thy be~t belov'd, in death forgotten lies.
<Haste, {,rive me burial : I would pass the gates
Of Hades, for the shadows of the dead
Now drive me from their fellowship afar."
And this is a prevailing sentiment among the North
American Indians :
"The bones of our countrymen lie uncovered, their
bloody bed has not been washed clean, their spirits
cry against us,-they must be appeased."
In the letter of Pliny the Consul, to Sura, we learn
that there was at Athens a house haunted by a chain-
rattling ghost. Athenodorus, the philosopher, hired
tlie house, determined to quiet the restless spirit.
" 'Vhen it grew towards evening, he ordered a couch to
be prepared for him in the fore part of the house, and,
after calling for a light, together with his pencil and
tablets, he directed all his people to retire. The first
part of the night passed in usual silence, when at
length the chains began to rattle. However he neither
lifted up his eyes, nor laid down his pencil, but diverted
his observation by pursuing his studies with greater
earnestness. The noise increased, and advanced nearer,
till it seemed at the door, and at last in the chamber.
He looked up and saw the ghost exactly in the manner
it had been described to him-it stood before him
beckoning with the finger. Athenodorus made ~ sign
with his hand that it should wait a little, and threw his
eyes again upon his papers; but the ghost, still rattling
his chains in his ears, he looked up and saw him
beckoning him as before. Upon this he immediately
Hi ~to·riYES OP GHOSTS.
arose, and, with the light in his hand, followed it. The
spectre slowly stalked along as if encumbered with his
chains, and, turning into the area of the house, sud-
denly \'anished. Athenodorus, being thus deserted,
made a mark with some grass and leaves where the
spirit left him. The next day he gave information to
the magistrates, and advised them to order that spot to
be dug up. This was accordingly done, and the skele-
ton of a man in chains was there found ; for the body
having lain a considerable time in the ground, was pu-
trified, and had mouldered away from the fetters. The
bones, being collected together, were publicly buried ;
and thus, after the ghost vms appeased by the proper
ceremonies, the house was haunted no more."
Yet, not only to entreat the rites of sepulture, the
phantom will walk according to some law of those
beings remote from the fellowship of human nature,-
it may be to obtain readmission to that earth from .,
which it was, by some fairy spell, in exile.
In the wilds of Rob Roy's country, there is many a
Highlander believing still the traditions of the Daoine
Shi, or ~len of Peace : and among the legends of
Aberfoyle there is one phantom tale that is apropos to
my illustrations.
There was one ~laster Robert Kirke. He was one
evening taking his night walk on a fairy hill, or dun-
shi, in the vicinity of his manse. On a sudden he fell
to the ground, struck, as it appeared to many, by
apoplexy: the seers, however, believed it to be a trance
inflicted on him by the fairy people for thus invading
the sacred bounds of their kingdom. .After the inter-
ment, the phantom of the minister appeared to one of
his relatives, and desired him to go to Grahame of
Duchray, his cousin, and assure him that he was not
dead, but was at that time a prisoner in elf land, and
the only moment in which the fairy charm could be
liOTJVES OF GHOSTS. 17
dissolved, was at the christening of his posthumous
child. The counter-spell was this : that Grahame
should be present at the baptism_
, holding a dish in his
hand, and that when the infant was brought, he should
throw the dish over the phantom; the appearance of
which at that moment was faithfully promised.
\Vhen.the child was at the font, and while the guests
were seated, the apparition sat with them at the table ;
but fear came upon the Grreme at this strange glamou-
rie: he forgot the solemn injunction, and it is believed
that l\1r. Kirke, to this day, " drees his weird in fairy
land."
c
PROPHECY OF SPECTRES.
I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand pound."-HAMLET.
Ev. THESE are very meagre spectres, Astrophel, or
accomplices, as the lawyer would say, after the fact.
AsTR. I have reserved Prophecies for this evening.
In the earliest profane records of our globe, we read
of the frequent ·visitations of prophetic phantoms.
Listen, Evelyn, to a story of your own Pliny ;-the
legend of Curtius Rufus. "\Vhen he was in low cir-
cumstances, and unknown in the world, he attended
the governor of Mrica into that province. One even-
ing, as he was walking in the public portico, he was
extremely surprised with the apparition of a woman,
whose figure and beauty were more than human. She
told him she was the tutelar power who presided over
Africa, and was come to inform him of the future
events of his life: that he should go back to Rome,
where he should be raised to the highest honours,
should return to that province invested with the pro-
consular dignity, and there should die. Upon his
arrival at Carthage, as he was coming out of the ship,
the same figure accosted him upon the shore. It is
certain, at least, that being seized with a fit of illness,
l'HOPII ECY OF SPEC'I'IU'!S. 19
though there were no symptoms in his case that led
his attendants to despair, he instantly gave up all hope
of recovery, and this prediction was in all its points
accomplished.
The shade of Romulus appeared to Julius Proculus,
a patrician, foretelling the splendour of Rome. The
fate of the battle of Philippi was shown to Brutus in
his tent, by the evil spirit of Cresar; and Cassius also
saw the phantom of Julius on his horse, prepared to
strike him, shortly before his suicide. In the Talmud
we read of the announcement of the Rabbi Samuel's
death to two of his friends, si.~ hundred miles off.
Then, the host of legends in that 'treasurc-booke' of
mystery, "'yanley's 'Vonders ;" the visions of Dion ;
of Alexander; of Crescentius; of the Pope's legate at
the Council of Trent; of Cassius Severns of Parma;
and myriads of analogies to these; nay, may we not
believe that the Grecian bards wrote fragments of real
history, when Patroclus foretels the death of Hector,
Hector that of Achilles, and :Mezentius of Orodes, or
when <Edipus predicts the lofty fate of his family to
Theseus?
But leave we the olden classics for the proofs of later
ages. In the pine-forests of Germany, and in wild
Caledonia, the legends of spirits and shadows abound
in the gossip of the old crones, both in the hut of the
jager and the sheiling of the Highland peasant.
The Taisch (like the Bodach Glas of Fergus l\Iac Ivor,)
murmurs the prophecy of death, in the voice of the
Taishtar, to one about to die; and the 1Yraith, Swarth,
1Vaft, or Death-Fetch, appear~ in the Eid6l.on, or like-
ness, of the person so early doomed, to some loved
friend of the party, or sounds of wailing and prophetic
voices scream and murmur in the mountain-blast.
The wild romances of Ossian, and the shadowy mys-
teries so brightly illustrated in the poesy of the "Lay,"
c 2
20 PROP II ECY OF SPEC1'RES.
the " Lady of the Lake," and "Marmion," prove how
deeply the common mind of Scotland leans to her
mysteries ; how devoutly her seers foretel a doom.
The evidence of l\fartin, the historian of the "\Vestern
Isles, is clear and decisive testimony of the possession
of a faculty of foresight; and in the reflecting minds o·f
many sages, who seek not to explain it by the term
coincidence, or to impute the vision to mere national
superstition. Indeed, in their records we have rules
noted down, by which the seer may overcome the
imperfections of his vision. If this be filmy or indis-
tinct, the cloak or plaid must be turned, and the sight
is clear; but then the fated seer is often presented with
!tis own wraith.
In Aubrey's" :Miscellanies" we read how Sir Richard
Napier, immediately before his death, was journeying
from Bedfordshire to Berks, and saw his own appari-
tion lying stark and stiff on the 'bed; how Lady Diana
Rich, the Earl of Holland's daughter, was met by her
U.eath-fetch in the garden at Kensington, a month ere
she died of small-pox ;-and listen to this legend of
Aventine.
"The emperor Henry went down through the
Strudel : in another vessel was Bruno, bishop of
'Vurtzberg, the emperor's kinsman. There sat upon
a rock, that projected out of the water, a man blacker
than a .Moor, of a horrible aspect, terrible to all who
beheld it, who cried out, and said to Bishop Bruno,
' Hear ! hear ! Bishop : I am thine evil spirit ; thou art
mine own; go where thou wilt, thou shalt be mine:
yet, now will I do nought to thee, but soon shalt thou
see me again.' The bishop crossed and blessed him-
self; but the holy sign was powerless. At Posenbeis,
where dwelt the Lady Richlita of Ebersberg, the floor
of the banqueting-room fell, in the e\'ening: it was the
death-fall of the bishop." .
PHOI'IIECY OF' SPECTRES. 21
As the protector Seymour was walking with his
duchess, at their country scat, they perceived a
spectral bloody hand thrust forth from a wall; and
he was soon after beheaded.
It is recorded, that, like Julius Cresar, James of Scot-
land had three warnings. TI1e saintly man in Lithgow
palace, attd another phantom, in Jedburgh, warned King
James of his fate: the latter wrote a Latin couplet on
the mantel-piece in the hall : had he read it wisely,
he had not died at Flodden.
The demon, or the guardian angel of Socrates, was
also a prophetic mentor-not only to the sage himself,
but even to his companions in his presence ; and the
slighting of its counsel often brought regret to those
who were the subjects of its warning.
In the minds of Xenophon and Plato its influence
was devoutly believed, and from the hive of the
Attic bee I steal this honied morsel:-" One Timar-
chus, a noble Athenian, being at dinner in company
with Socrates, he rose up to go away, which Socrates
observing, bade him sit down again, for, said he,
the demon has just now given me the accustomed
sign: Some little time after, Timarchus offered again
to be gone, and Socrates once more stopped him,
saying, he had the same sign repeated to him. At
length, when Socrates was earnest in discourse, and
did not mind him!' Timarchus stole away; and, in a
few minutes after, committed a murder, for which,
being carried to execution, his last words were,
'That he had come to that untimely end for not
obeying the demon of Socrates.' "
'Vhen Ben Jonson was sojourning at Hawthornden,
he told Mr. Drummond of his own prophetic vision,
that, "about the time of the plague in London, being
in the country at Sir Robe.rt.Cotton's house, with old
Camden, he saw, in a vision, his eldest son, then a
22 PROPHECY 01<' SPECTRES.
young child, and at London, appear unto him, with
the mark of a bloody cross on his forehead, as if it had
been cut with a sword; at which, amazed, he prayed
unto God ; and in the morning, he came to Mr.
Camden's chamber, to tell him, who persuaded him it
was but an apprehension, at which he should not be
dejected. In the mean time, there came letters from
his wife, of the death of that boy in the plague.. He
appeared to him of a manly shape, and of that growth
he thinks he shall be at the resurrection."
From Walton's Lives I select the following frag-
ment: it is a vision of Doctor Donne, the metaphy-
sician, whose wife died after the birth of a dead child.
"Sir Robert (Drury) returned about an hour afterwards.
He found his friend in a state of extasy, and so altered
in his countenance, that he could not look upon him
without amazement. The doctor was not able for
some time to answer the questi.on, what had befallen
him; but, after a long and perplexed pause, at last
said, ' I have seen a dreadful vision since I last saw
you. I have seen my dear wife pass twice by me
through this room, with her hair hanging about her
shoulders, and a dead child in her arms : this I have
seen since I saw you.' To which Sir Robert an-
swered, 'Sure, Sir, you have slept since I went out,
and this is the result of some melancholy dream,
which I desire you to forget, for you are now awake/
Donne replied, ' I cannot be more sure that I now
live, than that I have not slept since I saw you; and
am as sure, that at her second appearing, she stopped,
looked me in the face, and vanished.'"
There was a promise by Lord Tyrone to Lady Beres-
ford of a visitation from the tomb. Even when the
phantom appeared to her in the night, _the lady ex-
pressed her diffidence in its reality, but it placed a mark
upon her wrist, and adjusted her bed-curtains in some
PROPHECY OF SPECTRES. 23
supernatural fashion, and even wrote something in her
pocket-book: so that with earnestness she related to
her husban·d in the morning this impressive vision ; and
it was not long ere missives came, which by announc-
ing the death of Lord Tyrone proved the spectre pro-
phetic.
The t_
ragedian John Palmer died on the stage at
Liverpool. At. the same hour and minute, a shopman
in London, sleeping under a counter, saw distinctly his
shade glide through the shop, open the door, and pop
into the street. This, an· hour or two after, he men-
tioned very coolly, as if Mr. Palmer himself had been
there.
Cardan saw, on the ring-finger of his right hand, the
mark of a bloody sword, and heard at the same time a
voice which bade him go directly to :Milan. The red-
ness progressively increased until midnight : the mark
then faded gradually, and disappeared. At that mid-
night hour his son was beheaded at Milan.
It was told by Knowles, the governor of Lord Ros-
common when a boy, that young \Ventworth Dillon
was one day seized 'vith a mood of the wildest eccen-
tricity, contrary to his usual disposition. On a sudden
he exclaimed, "l\iy father .is dead!" And soon after
missives came from Ireland to announce the fact.
The father of DoCtor Blomberg, clerk of the closet to
George IV., was captain in an army serving in America.
We are told by Doctor Rudge, that six officers, three
hundred miles from his position, were visited after
dinner by this modern Banquo, who sat down in a
vacant chair. One said to him, "Blomberg, arc you
mad?" He rose in silence, and slowly glided out at
the door. He was slain on that day and hour. ·
In the "Diary of a Physician" (an embellished record
of facts), we read the story of the spectre-smitten :Mr.
M--, whose leisure hours were passed in the perusal
24 PROPHECY 01<, SPECTRES.
of legends of diablerie and witchcraft. One evening,
when his brain was excited by champagne, he re-
turned to his rooms, and saw a dear friend in his chair;
and this friend had died suddenly, and was at that
moment laid out in his chamber ;-a combination of
horrors so unexpected and intense, that monomania
was the result.
~fay I also recount to you this vision from ~1oore's
Life of Byron? "Lord Byron used sometimes to men-
tion a strange story which the ~ommander of the
packet, Captain Kidd, related to him on the passage.
This officer stated, that being asleep one night in his
berth, he was awakened by the pressure of something
heavy on his limbs, and, there being a faint light in the
room, could see as he thought distinctly the figure of
his brother, who was at that time in the same service in
the East Indies, dressed in his uniform, and stretched
across the bed. Concluding it to' be an illusion of the
senses, he shut his eyes and made an effort to sleep.
But still the same pressure continued, and still as often
as he ventured to take another look, he saw the figure
lying across him in the same position. To add to the
wonder, on pulling his hand forth to touch this form,
he found the uniform, in which it appeared to be
dressed, dripping wet. On the entrance of one of his
brother officers, to whom he called out in alarm, the
apparition vanished; but in a few months after, here-
ceived the startling intelligence, that on that night his
brother had been drowned in the Indian seas. Of the
supernatural character ofthis appearance Captain Kidd
himself did not appear to have the slightest doubt."
From Dr. Pritchard, I quote this fragment:-" A
maid-servant, who lived in the house of an elderly lady,
some years since deceased, had risen, early on a winter's
morning, and was employed in washing by candle-light
the entry of the house; when she was greatly surprised
PROPHECY 0.1<' SPECTitES. 25
at seeing her mistress, who was then in a precarious
state of health, coming down stairs in her night dress.
The passage being naiTow, she rose up to let her mis-
tress pass, which the latter did with a hasty step, and
walked into the street, appearing, to the terrified
imagination of the girl, to pass through the door with-
out opening it. The servant related the circumstance
to the son and daughter of the lady, as soon as they
came down stairs, who desired her to conceal it from
their mother, and anxiously waited for her appearance.
The old lady entered the room, while they were talking
of the incident, but appeared languid and unwell, and
complained of having been disturbed by an alarming
dream. She had dreamed that a dog had pursued her
from her chamber down the staircase, and along the
entry, and that she was obliged to take refuge in the
streets."
, In the manuscripts of Lady Fanshawe, how evident is
the fact of spectral prophecy ! Sir Richard Fanshawe
and his lady were sleeping in a baronial castle in Ire-
land, surrounded by a moat. At midnight she was
awoke by a ghostly and fearful screaming ; and, gleam-
ing· before the window in the pale moonlight, a female
spectre hovered, her light auburn hair dishevelled over
her shoulders. 'Vhile the lady looked in mute astonish-
ment, the spectre vanished, uttering two distinct shrieks.
Her terrific story was told in the morning to her host,
who evinced no wonder at the mystery, " Indeed,"
quoth he, " I expected this. This was the prophetic
phantom of our house, the spectre of a lady wedded to
an ancestor, and drowned by him in the moat from false
notions of dignity, because she was not of noble blood.
Since this expiation, the phantom appears before every
death of my near relations, and one of these died last
night in my castle."-Here may be the prototype of the
" \Vhite Lady of Avenel."
26 PROPHECY OF SPECTRES.
Among the most exalted families we have other con-
fident records of the recurrence of prophetic phantoms,
antecedent to great events. A spectre of this kiQd
formed a part of the household establishment of the
~facleans. During the peninsular war, at the moment
that the head of the clan died at Lisbon, this wraith
was seen to ride screaming along the shore in Scot-
land.
Arise Evans, in a 12mo. tract, " sold at his house in
Long Alley in Blackfriars in 1653/ entitled" An Echo
from Heaven," foretold the restoration of Charles II. ;
and his true prophecy was based on the vision of a
young face with a crown on, appearing after the shades
of Fairfax and of Cromwell.
There is an incident in Roman history so impressive
in its catastrophe, so exact in its periods, that fe,v, I
think, will deny the inspiration. At the moment that
Stephanus stabbed Domitian in his palace at Rome, the
philosopher Apollonius Tyaneus, in his school at
Ephesus, exclaimed : " Courage, Stephanus ! strike the
tyrant home !" and a minute after, when Parthenius
completed thfs homicide, he added, " he suffers for his
crimes-he dies."
I have slightly sketched these illustrations, and I
presume to term them prophecies. There are others
so complex, yet so complete in every part, as to con-
vert, I might hope, even the unbelief of Evelyn. To
the relations of Sir Walter and Dr. Abercrombie, I will
add one from Moreton, in his "Essay on Apparitions:"
"The Reverend D. Scott, of Broad Street, was sitting
alone in his study. On a sudden the phantom of an
old gentleman, dressed in a black velvet gown, and full
bottom wig, entered, and sat himself down in a chair
opposite to the doctor. The visitor infonned him of a
dilemma in which his grandson, who lived "in the west
country, was placed, by the suit of his nephew for the
6
PROPHECY OJ:o' SPECTUES. 27
recovery of an estate. This suit would be successful,
unless a deed ofconveyance was found, which had been
hidden in an old chest in a loft of the house. On his
arrival at this house, he learned that his grandson had
dreamed of this visit, and that his grandfather was
coming to aid him in the search. The deed was found
in a fal~e bottom of the old chest, as the ·vision had
promised."
In a letter of Philip, the second Earl of Chesterfield,
is told the following strange story, which, although not
a prophecy, cannot be within the pale of our philosophy.
"On a morning in 1652, the earl saw a thing in white,
like a standing sheet, within a yard of his bedside.
He attempted to catch it, but it slid to the foot of the
bed, and he saw it no more. His thoughts turned to
his lady, who was then at Networth, with her father,
the Earl of Northumberland. On his arrival at Net.-
)Vorth, a footman met him on the stairs, with a packet
directed to him from his wife, whom he found with
Lady Essex her sister, and ~Irs. Ramsey. He was
asked why he returned so suddenly. He told his
motive ; and on perusing the letters in the packet, he
found that his lady had written to him requesting his
return, for she had seen a thing in white, with a black
face, by her bedside. These apparitions were seen by
the earl and countess, at tlle same moment, when they
were forty miles asunder."
The miraculous spirit which the influence of Joan of
Arc infused into the desponding hearts of the French
army, is writ on the page of history. Before her pro-
position for the inauguration ofCharles VII. at H.heims,
she heard a celestial voice in her prayer, " Fille, va, va!
je seray aton ayde-va !" and her revelation of secrets
to the king, which he thought were locked within his
own bosom, raised in the court implicit belief in her
inspiration.
28 PROPHECY OF SPECTRES.
And now, Evelyn, I ask you,
" Can such things be,
And overcome us like a summer cloud,
'Vithout our special wonder 1" - -
Ere you smile at my phantasie, and overwhelm me
with doubts and solutions, I pr'ythee let me counsel
your philosophy. Dig to a certain depth in the field of
science, and you may find the roots and the gold dust
of knowledge : penetrate deeper, a!ld you will strike
against the granite rock, on which rest the cold and
profitless reasonings of the sceptic.
CAsT. You look on me, Astrophel, as on a bending
proselyte. Yet, sooth to tell, it may be difficult to
convert me, although I am halfwon to romance already
by the witch-thoughts of him who gilded the science of
the heart and mind, \lith all the iridescent charm of
poesy ; an unprofessing philosopher, yet with marvellous
insight of human hearts,-my 0"11 loved Shakspere.
An you listen to my Lord Lyttelton, he will tell you,
in his "Dialogues of the Dead,'' that " in the annihila-
tion of our globe, were Shakspere's works preserved,
the whole science of man's nature might still be read
therein." And so beautifully are his sketches of the
heart and the fancy blended withal, that we hang with
equal delight on the mystic philosophy of Hamlet, the
witchcraft of ~lab, and Ariel, and Oberon, with their
golden wreaths of gay blossoms, as on the dying \isions
of Katherine, as pure and holy as the vesper-breathings
of a novice. Yet the shade of superstition never dark-
ened the brow of Shakspere. Therefore, plume not
yourself on your hope of conquest, Astrophel : Evelyn
may win me yet. Philosophy may frown on the visions
of an enthusiast, while she doth grace her pages "ith a
poet's dream. But you will not wear the willow,
Astrophel : there is a beam of pity for you in the eyes
of yon pensive Ida.
PH.OPIIECY 01" SPECTRES.
InA. You arc a witch, Castaly. Yct I have as little
faith in the quaint stories of Astrophcl. A mystery
must be purified and chastened by sacred solemnity,
ere it may be blended with the contemplation of holy
study. And yet there is an arch voluptuary, Boecacio,
the coryphreus of a loose band of novelists, who has
stained a, volume by his ~profane union of holiness and
passion. The scenes of his Decamcron are played
amidst the raging of the plague, by flaunting youths
and maidens, but that moment arisen from the solem-
nity of a cathedral prayer!
AsTR. You will call up the shade of Valdarfar, Ida,
that idol of the Roxburghc club, and printer of the
Decamcron --
InA. If he appear, he shall vanish at a word, Astro-
phel. Yet we may not lightly yield the influence of
special visitations, even in our own days, when solemn.
belief is chastened by lloly motives, and becomes the
spring of living waters. Even the taint of superstition
may be almost sanctified on such a plea; and Baxter
may be forgiven half his credulity when he wrote his
" Saints' Rest," and the " Essay on Apparitions," to
convert the sceptics of London, who, in the dearth of
signs and wonders, expressed their willingness to believe
the soul's immortality, if they had proofs of ghostly
visitations.
I will myself even quote a mystery, (I believe re-
corded in Sandys's Ovid,) for the sake of the moral
which it bears. It is the legend of " The Room of the
Ladyes Figure :" whether it be a tale of Bavaria, or a
mere paraphrase from the Saxon Sabinus, I know not.
This is the story of Otto, a Bavarian gentleman, of
passionate nature, mourning for his wife. On: one of
his visits to her tomb, a mournful voice, which mur-
mured, •' A blessed evening, sir!" came o'er his car; and
while his eyes fell on the form of a young chorister, he
30 PROPHECY OF S PECTRES.
placed a letter in his hands, and vanished. His wonder
was extreme, while he read this mysterious despatch,
which was addressed "To my dear husband, who sor-
rows for his wife," and signed, " This, with a warm
hand, from the living Bertha," and appointing an inter-
view in the public walk. Thither, on a beautifui
evening, sped the Bavarian, .and there, among the
crowd, sat a lady covered by a veil. '\Vith a trembling
voice he whispered "Bertha," when she arose, and,
with her warm and living arm on his, returned to his
once desolate home. There were odd thoughts, sur-
mises, and wanderings, passing among the friends of
Otto, and suspicions of a mock funeral and a solemn
cheat; but all subsided as time stole over, and their
wedded life was without a cloud: until a paroxysm of
his rage one fatal day was vented on the lady, ·who
cried, "This to me! what if the world knew all !"-with
this broken sentence she vanished from the room. In
her chamber, whither the search led, erect, as it were
gazing on the fire, her form stood; but when they
looked on it in front, there was a headless hood, and
the clothes ,,~ere standing as if enveloping a form, but
no body was there ! Need I say, that a thrill of horror
crept through all at the mystery, and a fear at the
approach of Otto, who, though deeply penitent, was
deserted by all but a graceless reprobate, his companion,
and his almoner to many a stranger, who knel\' not the
unhallowed source of bounty?
That belief cannot be an error, which associates
divine thoughts with the events of human life. I re-
member, as I was roaming over the wild region of
Snowdonia, we sat above the valley and the lakes of
Nant Gwinant, on which the red ridge of Clwd Coch
threw a broad and purple shadow, while over ~Ioel
Elion and ~Iyneth ~Iawr, the sun was bathed in a
flood of crimson light. The \Velch guid~ was look-ing
PROPIH~CY OF SPECTRES. H
down in deep thought on Llyn Gwinant; and, with
a tear in his eye, he told us -a pathetic story of two
young pedestrians, who were benighted among the
mountains, on their ascent from Bcddgclert. 'They
had parted company in the gloom of the evening, and
each was alone in a desart. On a sudden, the voice of
one of tl}em was distinctly heard by the other, in the
direction of the gorge which bounds the pass of Llan-
beris, as if encouraging him to proceed. rrhc wanderer
followed its sound, and at length escaped from this
labyrinth of rocks, and arrived safely at Capel Currig.
In the morning, his friend's body was found lying far
behind the spot where the phantom voice was first
heard, and away from tlte course of tlteir route. "ras
this a special spirit, a solemn instance of friendship
after death, as if the phantom had been endowed with
supernatural power, and become the guardian angel of.
his friend; or the special whisper of the Deity in the
e~r of the living? A belief in this spiritual visitation
is often the consolation of pure Christianity, for "the
shadow of God is light !" With some the hope of
heaven rests on it; and holy men have thought, that
the· presence of a spirit may even sanctify the being
which it approaches with an emanation of its own
holiness. Nay, do we not witness a blessing like this
in the common walks of life; as in that beautiful story
(told by the Bishop of Gloucester) of the vision of her
dead mother, by the daughter of Sir James Lee, in
1662?
Is not the effect of these visitations, to a chastened
mind, ever fraught with good? It may be merely a
wisdom or a virtue in decision; as when my Lord
Herbert, of Cherbury, prayed to God to 'declare
whether he should publish his book "De Veritatc ;"
he heard a gentle voice from heaven, which answered
his prayer, with a solemn approval of his design. It
32 PROPHECY OF SPECTRES.
may be the checking of our pride of life, or our self-
glory for success; a divine lesson that may counsel us
against worldly wisdom, in this golden precept, " Seek
to be admired by angels rather than by men." So that
complete conversion may follow the vision of a spirit.
Doddridge has given us the stories of Colonel Gardiner
and the Rev. Vincent Perronet; and in the "Baronii
Annales" we read of Ticinus, a departed friend of
~Iichael ~Iercator, then a profane student in philo-
sophy, who, according to a preconcerted promise,
appeared to him at the moment that he died, afar off
in Florence. The vision so alarmed his conscience,
that he at once became a devout student in divinity.
In the city of Nantes, as we see it written by 'Villiam
of ~Ialmsbury, in the twelfth century, dwelt two young
ecclesiastics. Between them was a solemn compact,
that within thirty days after the death of either, his
shade should appear, sleeping or' waking, to the sur-
vivor, to declare if the true psychology was the doctrine
of Plato, or of the Epicureans; if the soul survived the
body, or vanished into air. The shade aP.peared like
one dying, while the spirit passeth away ; and dis-
coursing, like the ghost of Hamlet's father, ofthepains
of infernal punishments, stretched forth his ulcerous
arm, and asked if "it seemed as light;" then, dropping
the caustic humour from his arm on the temples of
the living witness, which were corroded by the drop,
he wan1ed him of the same penalties if he entered not
into holy orders, in the city of Rennes. This solemn
warning worked his conversion, and he became a pious
and exemplary devotee, under the holy wings of Saint
l\Ielanius.
In these instances, is not the special influence of the
Deity evident? and why will our profane wisdom still
draw us from our leaning to this holy creed~ causing us
to "forsake the fountains of living water, and hew out
PUOPIIECY OF SPEC1'JtJ.:s.
unto ourselves broken eisterns that can hold no
water?"
How awfully beautiful is the ~losaic picture of the
first mortal communion with the Creator, when the
vision of God was heard by Adam and Eve, walking in
the garden in the cool of the day; or, when the Deity
appeared to Abraham and to ~loses, and his word came
to ftfanoah, and to Noah, '"ith the blessings of a
promise ; or, when his angels of light descended to
console, and to relieve from chains and from fire ; or,
when the angel of the Lord first appears in the vision
to Cornelius; and the trance, or rather the counterpart
of the vision, comes over St. Peter, at Joppa; and the
arrival of the men, sent by the centurion, confirms the
miracle : and then, the last sublime revealings of the
Apocalypse. You will not call it presumption, Evelyn,
that I adduce these holy records to confirm our modem
faith ; and ask you, why philosophy will yet chain our
thoughts to earth, and affirm our visions to be a mean-
less phantasy?
D
ILLUSION OF SPECTRES.
" 1\Iore strange than true. I never may believe
These antique fables."
l\IIDSUMMER NIGHT's DREAM.
Ev. YouR holy thoughts, fair Ida, are but an echo of
my own. The grand causes and awful judgments of
the inspired reras of the world prove the truth by the
necessity of the miracles, not only in answer to the
Pharisees and Sadducees, who required a sign, but even
before the eyes of the early disciples, whose apathetic
hearts soon forgot the miracles, and their divine Master
himself; for, as he was walking on the sea, " at the
fourth watch, they thought he was a spirit."
I would fain, however, adopt the precept of Lord
Bacon, to waive theology in my discussions and my
illustrations, because I am unwilling to blend the sacred
truths of spiritual futurity with arguments on the im-
perfection of material existence.
In the abstract spiritual evidence of all modern
superstition, I have little faith. These records are
scarcely more to be confided in than fairy tales, or fic-
tions like those of many antique sages : as the rabbins,
that "the cherubim are the wisest, the ·seraphim the
most amiable, of angels ;" or of the visionary Jew of
I LLt:SION OF SPEC'l'UES.
Burgundy, whom, in HHI, John Evelyn spoke with m
Holland,-" He told me that, when the .Messias came,
all the ships, barkes, and vessels of Holland should, by
the powere of certaine strange whirlc wincV•, be loosed
from their ankers, to convey their brethren and tribes
to the holy citty." Or even that of ~Ielancthon, that
his sable IJlajesty once appeared to his own aunt in the
shape of her husband, and grasping her hand, so
scorched and shrivelled it, that it remained black t'.\Cr
after. These are fair samples of credulity.
You will call me presumptuous, but, believe me,
Astrophel, it is superstition which is presumptuous and
positive, and not philosophy; for credulity believes on
profane tradition, or the mere assertion of a mortal.
But the glory of philosophy is humility; for they who_,
like Newton, and Playfair, and '\Vollaston, and Davy,
look deeply into the wonder and beauty of creation,
will be ever humbled by the contemplation of their own
beiiig,-an atom of the universe. A philosopher can-
not be proud; for, like Socrates, he confesses his igno-
rance, because he is e\·er searching for truth. He
cannot be a sceptic ; for when he has dived into the
deeps· of science, his thoughts will ascend the more
toward the Deity : he has grasped all that science can
afford him, and there is nothing left for his mighty
mind but divine things and holy hopes. Philosophy is
not confident either, because she ever waits for more
experience and more weight of testimony.
How often, Astrophel, must we be deceived, ]ike
children, by distance, until experience teaches us truth.
By this we know that the turrets of distant towers are
hig!t, yet they dwindle in our sight to the mere vanish-
ing point, as the child believes them. Such is the power
of demonstration.
The ancient polytheists could not be other than
idolaters and believers in prophecy. The rabbins were
n2
36 ILLUSION OJ!' SPECTRES.
schooled, in addition to the books of ~loses, in those of
Zoroaster, in the Talmud, which was the magic volume
of the Jews, and the Takurni, or Persian Almanac, the
annual expositor of natural and judicial astrology in
the clime of the sun.
The sages who lived immediately after the light of
Christianity had been shed over the Holy Land, had
not forgotten the miracles wrought in the holy city;
but they profaned Omnipotence by making them pur-
poseless.
Superstition then formed a part of the national creed:
even a mere word, as "Epidamnum," they dreaded to
pronounce, as it was of such a\\-.ful import; and credu-
lity and blind faith in the prophetic truth of omens and
oracles prevailed. 'Ve read in ~Iontfaucon, that twelve
hundred believed in this miracle of Virgil :
"Captus a Romanis inrisibiliter e.x,iit, ivitque Ne-apolim :"
that he rendered himself im:isible to the Romans and
escaped to Naples. The influence of this blind infatu-
ation was ~he spring of many actions, which, like the
daring of the Indian fatalist in battle, were vaunted as
deeds of heroic self-martyrdom.
~larcus Curtius, the trembling of the earth having
opened a chasm in the Roman forum, leaped into it
on horseback, when the soothsayers declared it would
not close until the most valuable thing in the city was
flung into it. And the two Decii offered themselves as
the ·willing sacrifice, to ensure a victory for their coun-
try,--one in the war with the Latins, the other in that
of the Etrurians and Umbrians.
Aristotle and Galen were exceptions. It is true, that
Socrates believed himself under the influence of a
demon, a sort of delegate from the Deity,-indeed, that
God willed his death; for when his friend pressed him
on his trial to compose his defence, he answered thus :
ILLUSIO=" 01<' SPECTllES.
-" The truth is, I was twice going about to make my
apology, but was twice withheld by my demon." But
remember, Astrophel, the Greek word w·hich the philo-
sopher employed, To ~aLJ.lfJl'tov, and you will rather
confess that it implies the Deity, as if some divine in-
spiration taught him ; or perchance, as some of his
commentators believe, this invisible monitor was merely
the impersonation of the faculty of judgment, and of
that deep knowledge and forethought with which his
mind was fraught.
Cicero, too, is said to have ·written arguments to
prove the divine origin of the oracle of Delphi ; but it
is well believed by classics, that Addison has, in his
letter in the Spectator, mistaken Cicero for Cato.
Recollect, Astrophel, this is an old point with us,
when we were reading the subject of Auguries, in his
book, "De Divinatione," in which he wonders "that
on,e soothsayer can look another in the face without
laughing ;" and you remember Lucian ridicules ghost-
seeing as the whim of imagination. You have cited
Pliny. True,-Pliny is an interesting story-teller;
although he warps somewhat the phantoms of his
dreams. But what is the first sentence of his letter to
Sura?-" I am very desirous to know your opinion
concerning spectres; whether you believe them to have
a real existence, and are a sort of divinities, or arc only
the visionary impressions of a terrified imagination."
And what did Johnson confess ?-That " this is a
question, which, after five thousand years, is still un-
decided; a question, whether in theology or philosophy,
one of the most important that can come before the
human understanding." So you sec the vaunted creed
of Johnson was at least like the coffin of ~Iahomet,
poised between the affirmative and negative of the pro-
position. The sage was a strict spiritualist, and, as
38 lLLUSIOX OF SPECTRES.
Boswell says, "wished for more evidence of spirit in
opposition to materialism." On some points he was
also mighty superstitious, and constantly affirmed his
conviction that he should himself run mad. This
augury failed, and therefore the prophetic nature of
second sight needs more convincing proof than the
creed of Johnson.-In his own words, "Foresight is
not prescience."
As to the second sight of Caledon, he confesses that,
although in his journey he searche4 diligently, he saw
but one seer, and he was grossly ignorant, as indeed
they usually are. " He came away only willing to be-
lieve ;" the learned and literary even in the far He-
brides, especially the clergy, being altogether sceptics.
In the consideration of this question in the study of
psychology, it has been an error to conclude that, be-
cause in some certain works arguments are adduced by
imaginary characters, in support' of the appearance of
departed spirits : such was the positive belief of their
authors. If then, for instance, the arguments of Imlac,
in Rasselas, .which aim at the proof of spectral reality,
or rather the appearance of departed beings, be adduced
as an evidence of Johnson's own belief, I might observe
that it were equally rational to identify the minds or
dispositions of ~{assinger and Sir Giles Overreach,-of
Shakspere and Iago.
Like the Catholic priesthood, who rule the ignorant
by the force of superstition, leaders have been induced
to profess the possession of this faculty, to overawe their
proselytes by their own deeper knowledge; as Numa
vaunted his intimacy with the nymph Egeria at her
fountain.
For this purpose, even the Corsican general, Pascal
Paoli, assumed the profession of a seer, and the mystery
of his prescience was on the lips of every Corsican.
ILLUSION OF SPEC1'H.ES.
\Vhen Boswell asked, if the fulfilments of his prophceics
were frequent, a Corsican grasped a bundle of his hair,
and whispered, "Tante, tante, signore !"
But I will not play the dullard, Astrophcl, while you,
with your legendary romance, charm the listening cars
of ladyes fayrc. I will have my turn of story-telling,
(avoiding,the myriads of queer tales, told by supersti-
tious and unlettered visionaries, on the look out for
marvels, by servant maids and rustics, and silly people,
the chief actors in ghost stories). And therefore, in the
face of these negative conClusions, even of Johnson,
hear one unparalleled story, culled from the rich trea-
sury of Master Aubrey's ":Miscellanies." It was of an
earl of Caithness, who, desirous of ascertaining the dis-
tance of a vessel which was laden with wine for his
cellars, proposed a question to a seer. The answer was,
" At the distance of four hour's sail." It may be some
d<?ubt was expressed of the truth of this oracle; for, to
prove his gift of clairvoyance, he laid before the earl
the cap of a seaman in the ship, which he had that
moment taken .off his head. The vessel duly arrived,
and lo! a sailor· claimed the cap in the seer's hand,
affirming that, four hours before, it had been blown
from his head- by the gale. Is not this the very acme
of effrontery ? ,
Carolan, the inspired bard of Erin, confessed he could
not compose a planxty for a certain lady of Sligo, even
when he made an effort to celebrate her wondrous
beauty; and one day in despair he threw away his harp
and fell into a lament, that some evil genius was hover-
ing over him : from his harp strings, (in contrast with
those of Anacreon,) he could sweep only a mournful
music, and he thence prophesied, and that truly, the
death of the lady within the year.
Dubuison, a dentist of Edinburgh, on the day pre-
ceding the death of President Blair, met him in the
40 ILLCSIO~ OF SPECTRES.
street, and was addressed by the president with a pecu-
liar expression. On the day before the death of Lord
lllelville, the dentist was met by him exactly on the
same spot, and accosted by my lord in the very same
words. On the death of Lord ~Ielville, Dubuison ex:
claimed that he should be the third. He became imme-
diately indisposed, and died within an hour.
In the "lVIiscellanies" of Aubrey, we read, that John
Evelyn related to the Royal Society the case of the
curate of Deptford, ~Ir. Smith, who, in November,
1679, was sick of an ague. To this reverend clerk ap-
peared the phantom of a master of arts, with a white
wand in his hand, who promised that if he lay on his
back three hours, from ten to one, his ague would leave
him. And this prophecy "·as also to the very letter
fulfilled.
Napoleon, when he was marching upon Acre, had a
djerme, or Nile boat, with some of'his troops, destroyed;
the boat's name was L'Italie; and from this he said,
" Italy is lost to France." And so it was.
During the siege of Jerusalem, for seven days a man
paraded round the walls, exclaiming with a solemn
voice, "\Voe to Jerusalem!" and on the seventh day he
added, "\Voe to Jerusalem, and myself!" \Vhen, at
the moment of this anathema, a missile from the enemy
destroyed him.
Do you wonder that the prophecy ofMonsieur Cazotte
of his own decapitation, recorded in his "CEuvres de
~I. de la Harpe," should have been fulfilled ? for in
1788, when this prophecy was uttered, the guillotine
was daily reeking with patrician blood; and the Duchess
of Grammont, Vicq d'Azyr, Condorcet, and Cazotte
himself, among a host of others, were dragged to the
scaffold.
\Vhen dark events were overclouding· Poland, to
Sorvenski the warrior, a convert to magnetism, it was
41
imparted in a vision, that 'Varsaw should be deluged
in blood, and that he should ·fall in battle. In two
years these forebodings were fulfilled.
It is known ..that Lord Falkland and Arehbishop
\Villiams both warned Charles I. of his fate ; but it
required no ghost to tell him that. And I havt~ known
many deeply interested in the fate of absent friends ;
and knowing their circumstances and locality, so pro-
phesy, that they seemed to have all the faculty of clair-
voyance. The young ladies of Britain, during the
Peninsular war, were often dreaming of the apparitions
of their lovers, perhaps at the hour of their expiring on
the field of battle : coincidences that must make a deep
impression on sensitive minds. 'Vere I justified in
divulging secrets and confessions, I might relate some
curious stories of these inauspicious dreams.
At the moment of the duel between ~h. Pitt and
Mr. Tierney, on 'Vimbledon Common, a lady of fashion
i~ London exclaimed, cc This is the important mo-
ment!"
Oliver Cromwell had reclined on his couch, and ex-
treme fatigue forbad the coming on of sleep. On a
sudden his curtains opened, and a gigantic female form
imparted to him, that he should be the greatest man in
England. The puritanical faith and ambition of Crom-
well might have raised, during the distracted state of
the kingdom, something even beyond this ; and who
may decide, if the spectre had whispered, ccThou shalt
be king hereafter," that the protector would have re-
fused the crown, as, on the feast of Lupercal, it had
been refused by Cresar ?
cc General Oglethorpe," writes Boswell, "told us that
Prendergast, an officer in the Duke of ~farlborough's
army, had mentioned to many of his friends, that he
should die on a particular day. Upon that day a battle
took place with the French; and after it was over, and
42 ILLUSIO~ OF SPECTRES.
Prendergast was still alive, his brother officers, while
they were yet in the field, jestingly asked him, where
was his prophecy now? Prendergast gravely answered,
' I shall die, notwithstanding what you see.' Soon after-
wards there came a shot from a French battery, t~
which the orders for a cessation of arms had not yet
reached, and he was killed upon the spot !"
But can these shallow stories be cited as prophecies?
The links in the chain of causation are evident, and the
veriest sceptic cannot doubt their sequence, where there
was so strong a probability. It is merely by reflecting
on the past and judging the future by analogy. Natural
events of human actions have laws to govern them, and
there is seldom foresight without the reflection on these
laws. Lord ~:fansfield, when asked how the French
revolution would end, replied, " It is an event without
a precedent, and therefore without a prophecy."
AsTR. Then you do not believe, where you cannot
develope the causes of events. Like all rational philo-
sophers, you must have demonstrative proof. In which
class of sceptics shall I enrol you, Evelyn ?-As a
proselyte of Aristotle, who will deny not only the exist-
ence of spirits, but affirm heaven and hell to be a fable,
and that the world is self-existent; or with the Epicu-
reans, who believed the impious doctrine of blind chance,
-that the sun and stars were vapours, and the soul
perishable ; or with the modern lights of reason,-Sir
Isaac Ne'\\i;on, who confessed the Paradise Lost to be a
fine poem, though it proved nothing; or the Abbe Lau-
gucrne, who, for the self-same reason, despised the
brilliancy of Racine and Corneille ; or with the Sad-
ducees themselves, who denied both prophecy and
spirit?
Ev. Perhaps the Sadducees might have referred visions
to the rigid cause, for phantoms differ little from Locke's
"substance which thinks." But the mere metaphy-
6
ILLVSIO~ OF SPECTRES.
sician blinks the qucstion (as Lord Bacon docs that c•f
e:Kperimental chemistry,-" Vix unum cxperimentum
adduci potest quod ad hominum statum lcvandum et
juvandum spectat'') ; thus wofully depreciating the pro-
gress of chemical science, n.."' if the diseovetics of \Vnlla'!-
ton, of Davy, of Dalton, and of Faraday were fruitless.
Remember, modem philosophers arc not like Xcnophon,
who (says Socrates) called all fools who differed from
his opinion.
Even Ba..xter confesses the frequency of imposture in
ghost stories, yet leans to the belief of all which he can-
not account for.
Now if philosophy had not doubted, science would
be stationary. '""e might still believe, with Heraclitus.,
that the sun was only a foot in breadth; or, with Co-
pernicus, that it revolved in its orbit, while .the earth
was at rest. Remember, Astrophel, the way to the
te)llple of Science is through the portals of doubt: it is
a mark of weakness, "jurare in verba magistri." Even
the prince philosopher of Denmark doubted the pro-
phetic truth of his father's ghost on its mere appear-
ance-(" The spirit I have seen may be a devil,")-until
the scene ofthe play, and the stricken conscience ofthe
king, and then only, he believed that "it was an honest
ghost."
"It is true," as Lord Chesterfield wrote in 1653., "I
know that God can make any such things to appear,
but because he can, therefore to conclude that he doth,
is ill argued: and though divers books are full of such
stories, yet the soberest sort of men in all ages have
doubted the truth of them." I might add to these the
visions which have been so strangely warped to inter-
pret a subsequent event. '11lose of \Villiam Rufus, and
Innocent the Fourth, and Henry the Second of France,
and a thousand others from ancient history, between
the assumed prophecy and fulfilment of which, there is
44 ILLUSIOX OF SPECTRES.
about as much truth as when Lady Seymour dreamt of
having found a nest of nine finches, and soon after was
married to Finch, Earl of 'Vinchelsea, and was blesse_d
with a brood of nine children.
'Vith the coincidences of life we have all been struck;_
the ignorant and timid and superstitious among us with
wonder: but how comparatively trivial are these tiny
drops in the wide ocean of events, and what myriads of
dreams and visions from which there are no results !
A simple incident occurred to me in the autumn of
last year, which was so complete in its association as to
be for a moment startling to myself.
Influenced by a sort of ,·eneration for the memory of
the good Gilbert 'Vhite of Selborne, I made a pilgrim-
age to that calm and rustic village, so exquisitely em-
bosomed among green meads, and beech-crowned chalk
hills, and forests embrowned with heath and fern.
On my entrance to the village', I was reflecting on
the "idiot boy'' who fed on honey which he pressed
from the bees he caught, when lo ! at the first door a
figure, which grinned at me, and mowed and muttered,
but without the slightest t'erhal utterance. He was an
idiot, but not 'Vhite's idiot; yet a visionary mind might
readily for a moment believe it to be a phantom of the
foolish boy, immortalized, as it were, in the" Natural
History of Selborne."
There was an imposing occurrence also, during the
funeral procession of Sir 'Valter Scott to Dryburgh. A
halt took place for many minutes (in consequence of an
accident) precisely on the summit of the hill at Berner-
side, where a beautiful prospect opens, to contemplate
which, Sir 'Valter was ever wont to rein up his horse.
"In 1811," writes Lord Byron in a letter to ~Ir.
~Iurray, "my old school and form fe1low Peel, the Irish
secretary, told me he saw me in St. James"s Street; I
was then in Turkey. A day or two afterwards he pointed
ILLCSIO~ OF SPECTIU;:s.
out to his brother a person across the way, and said,
''There is the man I took for Byron :' his brother an-
swered, '\Vhy, it is Byron, and no one else.' I was at
this time seen to write my name in th(l Palace Book. I
was then ill of a malaria fever. If I had died, here
would have been a ghost story.''
\Vhile"Lord Byron was at Colonna, his dervish Tahiri,
as we read in his notes to the "Giaour," who professed
the faculty of second hearing, prophesied an attack of
the :Mainotes as they passed a certain perilous defile,
but nothing came of it : the attack was not made ; and
it is probable that some ringing in the cars of the
dervish, and a knowledge that the defile was a haunt of
brigands, were the springs of this notion.
And there are events, too, which have all the intensity
of romance and seem involved in the deepest mystery,
and which, like \Vashington Irving's tale of the "Spectre
Bridegroom," assume all the air of the supernatural,
until the enigma is solved, and then we cry, " How clear
the solution !"
Among the myriads of ea:plained mysteries in the
north, I will cite that of the farmer of 'Teviotdale, who,
in the gloom of evening, saw on the wall of a cemetery
a pale form throwing about her arms, and mowing and
chattering to the moon. \Vith not a little terror he
spurred his horse, but as he passed the phantom it
dropped from its perch, and, like 'Tam o' Shanter's
Nannie, fixing itself on the croup, clasped him tightly
round the waist with arms of icy coldness. He arrived
at home; with a thrill of horror exclaimed, "'Tak aff the
ghaist !" and was carried shivering to bed. And what
was the phantom? A maniac widow, on her distracted
pilgrimage to the grave of her husband, for whotn she
had indeed mistaken the ill-fated farmer.
The president of a literary club at Plymouth being
very ill during its session, the chair out of respect was
46 ILLUSIOX OF SPECTRES.
left vacant. While they were sitting, his apparition,
in a white dress, glided in and took formal possession
of the chair. His face was " wan like the cauliflower;"
he bowed in silence to the company, carried his empty
glass to his lips, and solemnly retired. They went to ,
his house, and learned that he had just expired ! The
strange event was kept a profound secret, until the
nurse confessed on her death-bed that she had fallen
asleep, that the patient had stolen out, and, having the
pass-key of the garden, had returned to his bed by a
short path before the deputation, and had died a few
seconds after.
In the records of his life, by Taylor, we read of a
trick of the great actor, who:,' like Brinsley Sheridan,
had an inkling for practical jokes. It was on a profes-
sional visit of Dr. ~foncey. "Garrick was announced
for King Lear on that night, and when Moncey saw
him in bed he expressed his surprise, and asked him
if the play was to be changed. Garrick was dressed,
but had his night-cap on, and the quilt was drawn over
him to give him the appearance of being too ill to rise.
Dr. M. expressed his surprise, as it was time for Garrick
to be at the theatre to dress for King Lear. Garrick, in
a languid and whining tone, told him that he was too
much indisposed to perform himself, but that there was
an actor named ~farr, so like him in figure, face, and
voice, and so admirable a mimic, that he had ventured.
to trust the part to him, and was sure the audience
would not perceive the difference. Pretending that he
began to feel worse, he requested 1foncey to leave the
room in order that he might get a little sleep, but
desired him to attend the theatre, and let him know the
result. As soon as the Doctor quitted the room, Garrick
jumped out of bed and hastened to the theatre. ~foncey
attended the performance. Having left G1trrick in bed,
he was bewildered by the scene before him, sometimes
li.LU S IO X O F i'l PECTilES.
doubting and sometimes being astonished at the resem-
blance between Garrick and Marr. At length, finding
that the audience were convinced of Garrick's identity,
Nfoncey began to suspect a trick had her~n practis~d
upon him, and instantly hurried to Garrick's house at
the end of the play; but Garrick was too quick for him,
and was f~mnd by ft'Ioncey in the same state of illnc~s/'
These are truths which are indeed stranger than fiction.
Were a miracle once authenticated, our sccptieism
might cease, but we cannot be convinced of super-
natural agency till something be done or known which
could not be so by common means, or which through
the medium of deception or contrivance imposes on the
mind such belief; of which impression Alston the pain-
ter once told Coleridge a melancholy story. 'Twas of
a youth at Cambridge, who dressed himself up in
white as a ghost to frighten his companion, having first
drawn the bullets from pistols which he kept at the
head of his bed. As the apparition glided by his bed,
the youth laughed and cried out, "Vanish! I fear you
not." The ghost did not obey him, and at length he
reached a pistol and fired at it, when, seeing the ghost
immoveable and invulnerable as he supposed, a belief
in a spirit instantly came over his mind, and convulsion
succeeding, his extreme terror was soon followed by his
death.
I have read (I believe in Clarendon), that the decapi-
tation of Charles I. was augured (afte-r death) from his
coronation robes being ofwhite velvet instead of purple;
and this it was remembered was the colour of a victim's
death-garment; and in Blennerhasset's history of James
II., that the crown at his coronation tottered on his
head and at the same moment the royal arms fcll'from
' ~
the altar of some London church. All this is too
childish to be spoken of seriously, and reminds me of
the General ~1ontecuculi, who on some saint's day had
48 ILI..USIOX OF SPECTRES.
ordered bacon in his omelette. At the moment it was
served, a peal of thunder shook his house,·when he ex-
claimed, "Voila bien du bruit pour une omelette !"
'Ve wonder not to find Lily, into whose moth-eaten
tomes I have sometimes peeped for amusement, prating.
thus of consequences. There is an old paper of his
graced ·with "the effigies of ~laster Praise God Bare-
bones," where, among other judgments, the blindness of
~1ilton is recorded as a penal infliction of the Deity, for
" that he writ two books against the kings, and Salma-
sius his defence of kings." But we do wonder at such
a weakness in Sir 1Valter Raleigh, that he should thus
write in his History of the 'Vorld,-" The strangest
thing I have read of in this kind being certainly true,
was, that the night before the battle of Novara, all the
dogs which followed the French army ran from them to
the S·witzers; and lo! next morning the Switzers were
beaten by the French."
And yet a greater wonder is, that so many solemn
stories should have crept into our national legends, in
which there is no truth : in which philosophers and
divines have ·very innocently combined to bewilder us.
There is an ass-umed incident associated with a melan-
choly event in the noble family of Lansdowne, most
illustrative of my observation. In the " Literary Re-
collections" of the Rev. Richard 'Varner, is recorded
the interesting story of the apparition of Lord 'Villiam
Petty, at Bowood, related to ~Ir. 'Varner by the Rev.
Joseph Tm\'"llsend, rector of Pewsey in 'Viltshire, and
"confirmed by the dying declaration of Dr. Alsop, of
Caine."
It is affirmed that Lord 'Villiam Petty, who was
under the care of Dr. Priestley, the librarian, and the
Rev. ~Ir. Jervis, his tutor, was attacked, at the age of
seven, with inflammation of the lungs, for which )fr.
Alsop was summoned to Bowood. After a few days,
1 LLP S l O ~ OF S l'l<':CTltRS.
the young nobleman seemed to be out of danger ; but,
on a sudden relapse, the surgcoi1 was again sent for in
the evening.
"It was night before this gentleman reached Bowood
but an unclouded moon showed every object in uncqui-•
vocal distinctness. :Mr. Alsop had passed through the
lodge-gat<!, and was proceeding to the house, when, to
his astonishment, he saw Lord \Villiam coming towards
him, in all the buoyancy of childhood, restored appa-
rently to health and vigour. ' I am delighted, my dear
lord,' he exclaimed, 'to see you, but, for Heaven's sake,
go immediately within doors,-it is death to you to be
here at this time of night.' The child made no reply,
but, turning round, was quickly out of sight. ~~r. Al-
sop, unspeakably surprised, hurried to the house. Here
all was distress and confusion, for Lord Hlilliam !tad
expired a few minutes before lte reached tlte portico.
"This sad event being with all speed announced to
th~ Marquis of Lansdowne, in London, orders were
soon received at Bowood, for the interment of the
corpse, and the arrangement of the funeral procession.
'fhc former was directed to take place at High \Viek-
ham, in the vault which contained the remains of Lord
1Villiam's mother; the latter was appointed to halt at
two specified places, during the two nights on which it
would be on the road. Mr. Jervis and Dr. Priestley
attended the body. On the first day of the melancholy
journey, the latter gentleman, who had hitherto said
little on the subject of the appearance to :Mr. Alsop,
suddenly addressed his companion with considerable
emotion in nearly these words : 'There arc some very
singular circumstances connected with this event, }fr.
Jervis, and a most remarkable coincidence between a
dream of the late Lord \Villiam and our present monn1-
ful engagement. A few weeks ago, as I was passing
F.
50 ILLUSION OF SPECTRES.
by his room door one morning, he called me to his bed-
side,-' Doctor,' said he,' what is your Christian name?'
' Surely,' said I, 'you know it is Joseph.' ' 'Vell, then/
replied he, in a lively manner, 'if you are a Joseph, you
ean interpret a dream for me, which I had last night..
I dreamed, Doctor, that I set out upon a long journey ;
that I stopped the first night at Hungerford, whither I
went without touching the ground ; that I flew from
thence to Salt Hill, where I remained the next night;
and arrived at High Wickham on the third day, where
my dear mamma, beautiful as an angel, stretched out
her arms and caught me within them.' 'Now,' con-
tinued the Doctor, 'these are precisely the places where
the dear child's corpse will remain on this and the suc-
ceeding night, before we reach his mother's vault, which
is finally to receive it.' "
Now here is a tissue of events, as strange as they are
circumstantial; and I might set myself to illustrate the
apparition by the agitated state of Mr. Alsop's mind,
were it not for the utter fallacy of this mysterious story,
on which the late Rev. 1\'Ir. Jervis, of Brompton, whom
I knew and esteemed, deemed it essential to publish
" Remarks," in the year 1831. From these, you will
learn that Mr. 'Varner is in error regarding the " ad-
dress, designation, and age of the Hon. William Gran-
ville Petty, the nature and duration of his disorder, and
the name of the place of interment." And then it comes
out that neither Dr. Priestley nor Mr. Jervis attended
the funeral, nor conversed at any time on the circum-
stance. And, regarding Mr. Alsop's death-bed declara-
tion, ~Ir. Jervis, who was in his intimate confidence,
never heard of such a thing until Mr. Warner's volume
was pointed out to him.
'rhis strange story, believed by good and wise men,
involved a seeming mystery, until we reaa in ~1r. Jer-
li.LUSIO~ OF SPECTRES.
vis's "'Remarks," one simple sentence in rcf(~renee to
the gentleman by whom it was first told,~thnt •• the
enthusiasm of his nature predisposed him to entertain
some visionary and romantic notions of supenmtural
appearances."
PHANTASY FROM: :MENTAL ASSOCIATION.
" This is the very coinage of your brain:
This bodiless creation, ecstacy
Is very cunning in." HAliLET.
CAsT. How delightful to wander thus among the re-
liques of that age, when her citizens, the colonists of
Britain, migrated from imperial Rome, and built their
Venta Silurum, or Caerwent, from the ruins of which
these now mouldering walls were formed. As we trod
those pictured pavements of Caerwent beneath the blue
sky of yesternoon, I felt all the inspiration of Astrophel,
and a pageantry of Roman patricians seemed to sweep
along the fragments of those painted tesselre.
" Lulled in the countless chambers of the brain,
Our thoughts are link'd by inany a hidden chain ;
Awake but one, and lo ! what myriads rise,
Each stamps his image as the other flies."
There is a happy combination of antiquity and sim-
plicity in this land of Gwent. Almost within the
shadow of the Roman Caerleon, the ~:lonmouthshire
peasants, at Easter and 'Vhitsuntide, assemble to plant
fresh flowers on the graves of their relatives. How I
love these old customs ! the chanting of the carol at
JliiA!.'l'TA SY FllOM ME!.'l'TAl.. ASSOC JATJO:-.". :')J
Christmas; its very homeliness so redolent of loV<~ and
friendship: and that quaint old ~lorcsco dance whidt
was introduced to England by the noble Katherine of
Arragon. Then the pastimes of Halloween and Ho~­
many in Scotland, and the 'Valpurgis night of Germany,
and the May-day in Ireland, the festival of their patron
saint, and the Midsummer night when the bcalfircs cast
an universallumination over the fells of the green isle,
and the still more sacred fire, lighted up in November
in worship of their social deity, Samhuin, whose potent
influence charms the warm. hearts of all the maids of
Erin around the winter hearth of their homes. I listen
unto these pleasures as if they were mine own : as
children associate all the legends of their school histories
with themselves and their own time.
In every spot of this land ofWales the very names of
the olden time are before us: the romaunt of Prince
Arthur and his knights is ever present to our fancy, for
he hath, as on the crag that towers over Edinburgh, a
seat on many a mountain rock in Wales ; as the Cada.ir
Arthur over Crickhowel, and the semicircle on Little
Doward, and l\faen Arthur on the moors of Cardigan.
AsTR. I never look on scenes like this without the
echo of that beautiful apostrophe of Johnson, among
the ruins of Iona, whispering in my ear.
Inspired by such an influence, I have roamed over the
Isle of Elephanta, and gazed on its gorgeous pagoda
hewn from the rock, and adorned by gigantic statues
and mysterious symbols of the same eternal granite : on
the bemiteous excavations of Salsette : on the wonders
of Elora, and on the classic reliques of Persepolis : on
the beautiful columns of Palmyra, the Tadmor in the wil-
derness, where Solomon built his "fenced city ;" as ·well
as those arabesque and gothic temples, the abbeys and
cathedrals of our own island. I too have almost dared
to think that superstition and idolatry might be forgiven
5·1 PHANTASY l<,RO~I ME~TAL ASSOCIATION.
for the splendours of its architecture, even for the ele-
vation of those giant blocks of Stonehenge and Abury,
the mouldering altars of the druidical priesthood, in the
city consecrated to their god.
So do I feel in this court-yard of Chepstow Castle,
~vhilom the Est-brig-hoel of Doomsdaye Booke, and in
later times so blended with English history. See you
not the Conqueror and his knights in panoply onprancing
steeds before you? See you not Fitz Osborne and
"rarren, its former lords, loom out upon your sight?
And, lo ! the portal opens, and the dungeon of Henry
11artin, the regicide, yawns like a bottomless pit before
us. The shade of Charles Stewart rises ; and again the
phantom of Cromwell, uttering his epithets of scorn, as
if the wanton puritan were about to dash the ink in the
face of his colleague as he signed the death-warrant of
the king. And now the scene changes, and behold the
doomed one is chained to those 'massive rings of iron,
and there with groaning dies.
Ev. I am most willing that you should thus indulge
in your wild. rhapsody, Astrophel, for it is the happy
illustration of one potent cause of spectral illusion-
association. There are few whose minds are not excited
in some degree when they tread the localities of interest-
ing events. By memory and its combinations some-
thing like an inspired vision may often seem to come
over us-a day-dream. Or, if we have been brooding
over a subject or gazing on the relics of departed or
absent love and friendship : or while we stand on a spot
consecrated by genius, or when we have past the scene of
a murder, still will association fling around us its vision-
ary shadows.
Shortly after the death of ~1aupertuis, the president
of the Academy of Berlin, ~Ir. Gleditsch, the curator of
natural history, was traversing the hall in solitude, when
he saw the phantom of the president standing in an
l'IIANTASY FltO~I ~lENTAL ASSOCIATIO~.
angle of the room with his eyes intensely fixed on him
an effect perfectly explicable by the association of in.
tense impression of memory in the very arena of the
president's former dignity.
You will rememb~r the story of a rich libertine, told
by Sir 1Valtcr Scott. 1Vhenevcr he was alone in his
drawing-room, he was so haunted by a spectral corps
de ballet, that the very furniture was, as it were, con-
verted into phantoms. To release himsclffrom this un-
welcome intrusion he retired to his country house, and
here, for a while, he obtained the quiet which he sought.
But it chanced that the furniture of his town house was
sent to him in the country, and on the instant that his
eyes fell on his drawing-room chairs and tables, the
illusion came afresh on his mind. By the influence of
association the green figurantes came frisking and
capering into his room, shouting in his tmwilling ears,
"Here we are! here we are!"
It is not, however, essential that there be subst.:mce
at all to excite these spectres. Idea alone is sufficient.
Do you think it strange that a ghost should appear
fleshless and shadowy without some supernatural in-
fluence? Be assured that the only influence exists in
the sublime and intricate workings of that mind which
in its pure state was itself an emanation from the Deity;
which is only shadowed by illusion while in its earthly
union with the brain, and which, on the dissolution of
that brain, will fioooain live uncombined, a changeless and
eternal spirit.
It is as easy to believe the power of mind in conjuring
up a spectre as in entertaining a simple thought: it is
not strange that this thought may appear embodied,
especially if the external senses be shut: if we think
of a distant friend, do we not see a form in our mind's
eye, and if this idea be intensely defined, docs it not
become a phantom?
56 PHANTASY FROll liEXTAL ASSOCIATION.
" Phantasma est sentiendi actus, neque differt a sen-
sione aliter quam fieri differt a factum esse."
" A phantom is an act of thinking," &c.
You have dipped deeply into Hobbes, Astrophel, and
will correct me if I misquote this philosopher of 1\Ialms:-
bury.
It was in Paris, at the soiree of Mons. Bellart, and a
few days after the death of Marshal Ney, the servant,·
ushering in the Mareschal Azne, announced l\fons. Le
l\fareschal Ney. We were startled; and may I confess
to you, that the eidolon of the Prince of l\foskwa was
for a moment as perfect to my sight as reality?
Now it is as easy to imagine a fairy infinitely small as
a giant infinitely large. Between an idea and a phan-
tom, then, there is only a difference in degree ; their
essence is the same as between the simple and transient
thought of a child, and the intense and beautiful ideas
of a Shakspere, a l\filton, or a Dante.
" Consider your own conceptions," said Imlac, " you
will find substance without extension. An ideal form
is no less real than material, but yet it has no exten-
sion." ·
You hear I adopt the word idea, as referring to the
organ of vision, but sight is not the only sense subject
to illusion. Hearing, taste, smell, touch, may be thus
perverted, because the original impression was on the
focus of all the senses, the brain.
Indeed, two of these illusions are often synchronous:
as when a deep sepulchral voice is uttered by a thin
filmy spectre, like the ghosts of Ossian, through which
the moonbeams and the stars were seen to glimmer.
But the illusion of the eye i.s by far the most common,
and hence our adopted terms refer chiefly to the sight :
as spectre, phantom, phantasm, apparition, eidolon,
ghost, shadow, shade.
The ghost then is nothing more than an intense idea.
PHAN'l'AS Y FilO:.t ME ~'rA I• .\ SSOC IATIO.S . !17
And as I have caught the mood of story-telling, listen
to some analogies of those deep impressions on the
mind which are the spring of all this phantasy.
That destructive brainworm, Demonomania, is often
excited in the mind of a proselyte by designing religious
fanatics. Let the life of the selected person be ever
so virtuous and exemplary, she (for it is usually on the
softer sex that these impostures are practised) becomes
convinced of the influence of the demon over her, and
she is thus criminally taught the necessity of conversion
-is won over to the erroneous doctrine of capricious
and unqualified election.
These miseries do not always spring from self-inte-
rested impostors. The parent and the nurse, in addi-
tion to the nursery tales of fairies and of genii, too often
inspire the minds of children with these diabolical phan-
toms. The effect is always detrimental,-too often per-
mapently destructive. I will quote one case from the
fourth volume of the Psychological l\fagazine, related by
a student of the university of Jena.-" A young girl,
about nine or ten years old, had spent her birth-day
with several companions of her own age, in all the
gaiety of youthful amusement. Her parents were of a
rigorous devout sect, and had filled the child's head
with a number of strange and horrid notions about the
devil, hell, and eternal damnation. In the evening, as
she was retiring to rest, the devil appeared to her, and
threatened to devour her. She gave a loud shriek, fled
to the apartment where her parents were, and fell down
apparently dead at their feet. A physician was called
in, and she began to recover herself in a few hours.
She then related what had happened, adding, tim~ she
was sure she was to be damned. This acd dcut was
immediately followed by a severe and tedious ncn ous
complaint."
The ghost will not appear to tell us what urill happen,
58 PHANTASY FROll ME:XTAL ASSOCIATIO:X.
but it rnay rise, and with awful solemnity too, to tell us
that which has happened. Such is the phantom of
remorse,-the shadow of consci.ence,-which is ind~ed
a natural penalty : a crime that carries with it its own
consecutive punishment. "\Vere the lattice of l\fomus
fixed in the bosom, that window ·through which the
springs of passion could be seen, there would be, I fear,
a dark spot on almost every heart,-as there is, to
quote the Italian proverb, "a skeleton in every house."
Of these pangs of memory, the pages both of history
and fiction are teeming. Not in the visions of sleep
alone, but in the glare of noonday, the apparition of a
victim comes upon the guilty mind,-
" As when a gryphon through the wilderness,
With "inged course, o'er bill and moory da.lc,
Pursues the Arimaspian, who, by stealth,
Had from his wakeful custody purloined
The guarded gold."
Brutus, and Richard Plantagenet, and Clarence, and
~Iacbcth, and l\Ianfred, and Lorenzo, and "\Vallace, and
l\Iarmion, arc but the archetypes of a very numerous
family in real life,-for .Shakspere, and Byron, and
Schiller, and Scott, have painted in high relief these
portraits from the life.
~fany a real ~Ianfrcd has trembled as he called up
the phantom of Astarte; many a modern Brutus has
gazed at midnight on the evil spirit of his Cresar; many
a modern :Macbeth points to the vacant chair of his
Banquo, the ghost in his seat, and he mentally ex-
claims,-" Hence, horrible shadow ! unreal mockery,
hence!"
InA. Aye, and many a false heart, like l\farmion,
hears, as his life ebbs on the battle-field, the phantom
voice of Constance Beverly :
" The monk, with unavailing cares,
Exhausted all tho church's prayers.
PHANTASY FROM ME~TAI., :\SSOCIATION.
Ever he said, that, close and n<•ar,
A lady's voice was in his ear,
And that the priest ho could not hear,
For that she ever sung:
' In the lost battle, bol"lle down by the flying,
Where mingles war's rattle with groanb of the dyiog'-
So the notes rung."
We read··in Moreton an exquisite storyofthc trial of a
murderer, who had with firmness pleaded~-"not f,'1Iilty."
On a sudden, casting his eyes on the witness-box, h<·
exclaimed, "This is not fair ; no one is allowed to be
witness in his own case." The box was empty, as you
may suppose; but the eye of his conscience saw his
bleeding victim glaring on him, and ready to swear to
his murder. He felt that his fate was scaled, and
pleaded guilty to the crime.
"--Deeds are done on earth,
Which have their punishment ere the earth closes
Upon the perpetrators. Be it the working
Of the remorse-stained fancy, or tho vision
Distinct and real of unearthly being :
All ages witness that, beside the couch
Of the fell homicide, oft stalks the glwst
Of him he slew, or shows his shadowy wound."
It is this utter humiliation of the spirit, and the con-
viction of our polluted nature, that rankle so intensely
in the wounded heart; and thence the repentant sinner
feels so deeply that awful truth, that there is a Being
infinitely more pure and godlike than himself.
Ev. A very fertile source of spectral illusion is the
devotion to peculiar studies and deep reflection on inte-
resting subjects. Mons. Esquirol records the halluci-
nation of a lady, who had been reading a terrific aceount
of the execution of a criminal. Ever after, in all her
waking hours, and in every place, she saw above her
left eye the phantom of a bloody head, wrapped in black
crapc,-a thing so horrible to her, that she repeatedly
60 PHAXTASY FROl\1 MENTAL ASSOCIATION.
attempted the commission of suicide. And of another
lady, who had dipped so deeply into a history of
witches, that she became convinced of her having, like
Tam O'Shanter's lady ofthe "cutty sark," been initiated
into their mysteries, and officiated at their "sabbath"
ceremonies.
Monsieur Andral, in his youth, saw in La Pitie the
putrid body of a child covered with larvf£, and during
the next morning, the spectre of.this corpse lying on
his table was as perfect as reality.
We have known mathematicians whose ghosts even
appeared in the shape of coloured circles and squares,
and Justus Martyr was haunted by the phantoms of
flowers. Nay, our own Sir Joshua, after he had been
painting portraits, sometimes believed the trees, and
flowers, and posts to be men and women. ·
I knew myself a bombardier, whose brain had been
wounded in a battle. To this man a post was an enemy,
and he would, when a sudden frenzy came on him,
attack it in the street with his cane, and not leave it
until he believed that his foeman was beaten or lay
prostrate at· his feet.
Intense feeling, especially if combined with apprehen-
sion, often raises a phantom. The unhappy Sir R--
C--, on being summoned to attend the Princess Char-
lotte of Wales, saw her form robed in white distinctly
glide along before him as he sat in his carriage : a parallel,
nay, an explanation, to the interesting stories ofAstrophel.
Then the sting of conscience may warp a common
object thus. Theodric, the Gothic king, unjustly con-
demned and put to death Boethius and Symmachus. It
chanced at that time, that a large fish was served to him
at dinner, when his imagination directly changed the
fish's head into the ghastly face of Symmachus, up-
braiding him with the murder of innocence; and such
was the cficct of the phantom, that in a few days he
PHANTASY FROM l1E:\'1'AL ASSOGL\1'10:\.
died. But these spectral forms were seen, like tlu
dagger of ~facbeth, and the hand-writing on the wnH1
by none but the conscience-:~tricken, a proof of their·
being ideal and not real.
Not long after the death of Byron, Sir \Yaltcr Scott
was engaged in his study during the darkening twilight
of an autmpnal evening, in reading a sketch of his form
and habits, his manners and opinions. On a sudden
he saw as he laid down his book, and passed into his
hall, the eidolon of his departed friend befin·e him. He
remained for some time impressed by the intensity of
the illusion, which had thus created a phantom out of
skins, and scarfs, and plaids, hanging on a screen in the
gothic hall of Abbotsford.
I learn from Doctor T. that a certain lady was on the
eve of her marriage, but her lover was killed as he was
on his way to join her. An acute fever immediately
followed this impression; and on each subsequent day,
wh~n the same hour struck on the clock, she fell into a
stateofecstacy, and believed that thephantomofher lover
wafted her to the skies ; then followed a swoon of two or
three hours' duration, and her diurnal recovery ensued.
CAST. I know not if it will make me happier, Evelyn,
but I have learned from your lips to believe that many
of those legends which I held as poetic fictions, may be
the stories o( minds, in which, under the influence of
devoted affection, the slightest semblance to an object
so beloved may work up the phantom of far distant or
departed forms. You may have read the romantic
devotion of Henry Howard to the fair Geraldine, the
flower of England's court, and the chivalrous challenge
of her beauty to the knights of France. During his
travels on the continent, he fell in with the alclt) inist
Cornelius Agrippa, who by his sleight cunning showed
in a magic mirror (as he said) to the doting mind of the
earl, his absent beauty reclining on a couch, and reading
by the light of a waxen taper the homage of his pen to
62 PHANTASY FR0:\1 :\IENTAI~ ASSOCIATION.
her exquisite beauty. Then there was an archbishop of
the Euchaites, a professor of magic in the ninth century.
The Emperor Basil besought this pseudo-magus Santa-
baran, for a sight of his long lost and beloved son. He
appeared before the emperor in a costume of splendour
and mounted on a charger, and sinking into his arms,
instantly vanished. This phantasy, and the glamourie
of the witch of Falsehope over l\Echael Scott, and the
vision of the wondrous tale of Vatheck, and the legend of
the Duke of Anjou in Froissart; might be the rude
shadows of some slight phantasmagoria working on a
sensitive or impassioned mind; may they not?
Ev. I am proud of my proselyte, lady.
InA. I presume these illusions may be wrought with-
out the outlines of distinct shapes. I have ever thought
the vision of Eliphaz the Temanite more solemn, be-
cause an undefined shadow : "A vision is before our face,
but we cannot discern the form· thereof." And where
the profane poets have written thus mystically, they have
nsen In sublimity. Such is 1\-Iilton's portraiture of
death:
"-- the other s·hape,
If shape it could be called, which shape had none
Distinguishable in member, joint, or limb ;
Or substance might be called that shadow seemed,
For each seemed neither."
And in the splendid vision of l\1anfred, whose thoughts
were, alas ! so polluted by passion-
"I see
The steady aspect of a de~·n· large star,
But nothing more.
SPIRIT. 'Ve ha,·c noji>rm beyond the elements,
Of which we are the mind and principle."
And the idolaters profanely adopted this mystic meta-
phor when they inscribed their Temple of I~is, at Sais-
•' I am whatever has becn,Js, and shall be, and no one hath taken off
my veil."
PJIA~1'ASY FROM MENTAL ASSOCJA'f'IO~.
Ev. The phantom is often described as destitute ot
form. '\Vhen Johnson was asked to define the gho::<;t
which appeared to old Cave~ he answered: "\Yhy, sir,
something of a sltadmcy being." And there is a subli-
mity and a mystery in that which is indefinite. Two
very deep philosophers have however differed in opinion
regarding the efl'ect of darkness and obscurity on the
mind. Burke alludes to darkness as a cause of.the sub~
lime and terrific: {and he is supported by rracitus~
" Omne ignotum pro magnifico est:") Locke, as not
naturally a cause of terror, but as it is associated by
nurses and old crones with ghosts and goblins. .,
I will not split this difference, but I believe Burke is
in the right. Obscurity is doubtless deeply influential
in raising phantoms; that which is indefinable becomes
almost of necessity a ghost. If the ghosts of Shak-
spere did not appear, the illusion would be more im-
pre_ssive. In darkness and night, therefore, the ghosts
burst their cerements, the spirits walk abroad, and the
ghost seers revel in all their superstitious glory. The
dn1ids, those arch impostors, acted their mysteries in the
depth of shadowy groves : and the heathen idols arc
half liidden both in the hut of the American Indian and
the temples of lndostan. It is true children shut their
eyes when frightened, but this is instinctive, and because
they think it real; but, in truth, they ever dread the
notion of darkness. By the fancy of a timid mind, in
the deepening gloom of twilight, a withered oak has
been fashioned into a living monster; and I might
occupy our evening in recounting the tales of terror to
which a decayed trunk once gave birth, among some
village gossips in the weald of Sussex.
'fhere are few who "revisit the glimpses of the moon,"
whose romantic humour leads them abroad about night-
fall, who have not sometimes been influenced by feeHn~
somewhat like phantasy, during the indistinct vision of
6
o4 PIIA-:'\TASY I<'RO)l )(ENTAL ASSOCIATIOX.
twilight; the dim emanations of the crescent, or the
more deceptive illusion of an artificial luminous point
irradiating a circumambient vapour. Through the mag-
nifying power of this floating medium, the image may
be fashioned into all the fancied forms of poetical crea...
tion.
At the midnight hour, by a blue taper light, and in a
ruined castle, a simple tale will become a romance of
terror.
I have spoken thus, to introduce an incident which
occurred years ago, and yet my mind's eye shows it to
me as if it were of yesterday.
It was in the year--, on the eve of my presenting
myself at the college for my diploma. I had been deeply
engaged during the day, in tracing, with some fellow
students, the distribution of the nervous ganglia. The
shades of evening had closed over us as our studies
were nearly completed, and one oy one my companions
gave me good night, until, about ten o'clock, I was left
alone, still poring over the subject of my study, by the
dim light of a solitary taper. On a sudden I was star-
tled by the ·loud pealing· of a clock, which, striking
twelve, warned me most unexpectedly of the solemn
hour of midnight; for I was not othenvise conscious of
this lapse of time. For a moment I seemed in utter
darkness, until straining my eyes, a blue and lurid
glimmer floated around me. A chilliness crept over
me, and I had a strange indefinable consciousness of
utter desolation---<>f being immured in some Tartarean
c.avern, or pent among icy rocks, for the cold night-wind
was sweeping in hollow murmurs through the vaults.
In the blue half-twilight I was at length sensible that I
was not alone, but in the presence of indistinct shadowy
forms, silent and motionless as the grave ; and by that
awful sensation of the sublime which springs from ob-
scurity, I conceived that I had suffered transmigration,
PHANTASY PROM MENTAl.. ASSOCI ATION . u.'i
or had glided unconsciously through the ~:,rates of Hadc~1
and that these were the embodied spirits-~the manes of
the departed, in sleep; and then I thought the sounds
were not those of the wind, but the hollow moaning of
those restless spirits that could not sleep. By some
species of glamourie which I could not comprehend,
the gloom~ appeared to brighten by slow degrees, and
the forms became more distinct. "\Vhen we are involved
in mystery, the sense of touch is instinctively brought
to its analysis. I put forth my hand, and found that my
eyes were not mocked with a mere vision ; for it came
in contact with something icy cold and death-like-it
was an arm clammy and cadaverous that fell across my
own ; and as the smell of death came over me, a corpse
rolled into my lap.
The moaning of the breeze increased, and the screech-
owl shrieked as she flitted unseen around me. At this
moment a scream of agony was heard in the distance,
as of some mortal frame writhing in indescribable an-
guish, while a hoarse and wizard voice cried, " Endure !
endure !" It ceased; and then I heard a pattering and
flutter, and then a shrill squeaking, as of some tiny
creatures that were playing their gambols in the dark-
ness which again came around me. On a sudden all
was hushed, and there was a glimmer of cold twilight,
as when a hom of the moon, as Astrophcl would say,
comes out from an eclipse; and then a brighter gleam
of bluer light burst through the gloom, at which I con-
fess I started, and my hand dropped into n pool of
blood. Like ·the astonished Tam O'Shanter, it seemed
that I was alone in the chamber of death, or the solitary
spectator of some demon incantation or of some whole-
sale murder. There were some fonns blue and livid,
some cadaverous, of "span-long, wee, unchristened
bairns," and others deluged in blood and impurity 1
ny
around me: one pale and attenuated fonn, that more
f'
66 PHANTASY FROM MENTAL ASSOCIATION.
than mocked the delicate beauty of the Medicean Venus,
lay naked on the ground. On the athletic form of
another the moonbeam fell in a glory, as if the fabled
legend of Endymion was realized before my eyes.
AsTR. And--
Ev. Ay, now for the secret-the materiel of this
wild vision. The truth was, I had dropped asleep in
the dissecting-room-the candle had burned out; and
thus, with a copious supply of dead bodies, the howling
of a tempest, the purple storm-clouds, the blue gleams
of moonshine, and bats, and screech-owls, and the
screams of patients in the surgical wards, and withal
the hoarse voices of those croaking comforters, the
night-nurses,-I have placed before you a harmony of
horrors, that might not shame a legend of Lewis, or a
Radcliffian romance.
Simple as this will be the explanation of many and
many a tale of mystery, although fraught with accumu-
lated horrors, like those of the "Castle of Udolpho ;"
and if, putting aside that ultraromantic appetite for
the marvellous, we have courage to attempt their ana-
lysis, the pages of demonology will be shorn of half
their terrors, the gulph of superstition will be illumined
by the light of philosophy, and creation stand forth in
all its harmonious and beautiful nature.
PHANTASY FRO~M CEREBRAL EXCITE~lENT.
--"A false creation.
Proceeding from the heat-cppressffi
AsTR. I will grant the influence of all these inspiring
causes, Evelyn, but it is not under adventitious circum-
st~ces alone that the gifted seer is presented with his
visions, but also in the clear daylight, in the desart, or
in a mountain hut; surrounded, too, by those who are
content with the common faculties of man.
Among many of the Gothic nations especially, women
were the peculiar professors of divination and magtc.
The Volva-Seidkona, the Fiolkyngi, the Visindakona,
and the Nomir, were the oracular priestesses, the chief
of whom was the Hexa. These had the faculty of insight
into skulda, or the future, and foreknew the doom of
mortals : either to the niflheiner, or hell, over 'vhich
presided the half blue and half flesh-tinted Bela, the
goddess of death, who, as the Cimbric peasants believed,
diffused pestilence and plnoO'Ue as she rode over the
earth on her three-footed horse Hellhest ; or to the
Valhalla, or paradise of Odin. And this we read in the
•' Edda." ,
Ev. Gramercy, Astrophel, you run up the cat:llogue
of these weird women as you were inYolved in their uu-
1'' 2
08 PHANTASY l<'RO:M CERgBR.Al.. EXCITEMENT.
holy league. Have a care, or we must have you caged.
There was once a Dr. Fordage, a divine of Berkshire,
(as it is recorded in a strange book, "Demonium Meri-
dianum, or Satan at Noon-day,") accused of seeing
spectres, such as "dragons with tails eight yards long,
with four formidable tusks, and spouting fire from their
nostrils." Remember the peril, and beware.
AsTR. Oh, sir, you must impeach by wholesale, for
clairvoyance or second sight prevails in some regions as
a national faculty.
The course$ of my travel have shown to me this in-
spiration, especially among the elevated parts of the
globe. The Hartz and other forests in Gennany, the
Alps and Pyrenees, the Highlands of Scotland, the
hills of Ireland, the mountains of the Isle of Man, and
the frozen fields of Iceland and Norway, abound in
ghostly legends. Among the passes of the Spanish
Sierras, also, it is believed that the Saludadores and the
Covenanters saw angels on the hill-side during their
wanderings and persecutions. .
Ev. And how clear is the natural reason of this. As
in the wide·desert, so on the mountain, nature assumes
her wildest fonn. Of the awful sublimity of clouds, and
vapours, and lightnings, among the gorges of the giant
rocks, of the Alps, and the Appenines, and the deep
and dreadful howling of a stonn in the icy bosom of
a glacier, or bellowing among the crumbling walls of
ruined castles, the lowlander can fonn no idea.
The mind both of the Bedouin Arab, and especially
of the mountaineer, is thus cradled in romance. If
that mind be rude and uncultivated, credulity and
superstition are its inmates; ignorance being the com-
mon stamp of the seers, except in rare instances of deep
reflectors or melancholy bookworms, whose abstractions,
like thoseofAllanBane andBrian andMacAulay, assume
the prophetic faculty; the seer by its power perceiving,
PIIA~'l'ASY J.<'ltO~I CJ;;REBRAJ. EXCI'l'f::\IKST. 6!)
as he declares, things distant or _future as if they were
before his eye.
The superstitious legends of :Martin, the historian of
the \Vestern Isles, and the precepts for the praetiee
and governance of this clairvoyance, prove~ a dc~cp in-
terest and impression, but not a mystery. Among the
defiles of Snrefel, in ~Ian, the belief is prevalent: " A
~Ianksman amid his lonely mountains reclines by some
romantic stream, the murmurings of which lull him into
a pleasing torpor; half-slumbering, he sees a vaticty of
imaginary beings, ·which he believes to be real. Some-
times they resemble his traditionary idea of farics, and
sometimes they assume the appearance of his friends
and neighbours. Presuming on these dreams, the
1\Ianks enthusiast predicts some future event." Here
is a local reason, as among the icy mountains of the
north. Cheffer writes, that thus influenced, the melan-
choly of the Laplanders renders them ghost-seers, and
the dream and the vision are ever believed by them to
be prophetic.
CAsT. It is the contemplation of these alpine glories,
that gilds with so bright a splendour of imagery the
romances of mountain poets,~--the wild legends of Os-
sian, and those which spangle, as with sparkling jc·wels,
the pages of the "Lay," the " Lady of the Lake," and
"~Iarmion." It may excite the jealousy of a classic,
but the ghosts and heroes of Ossian, as very acute
critics decide, are cast in a finer mould than the gods of
Homer..
You smile at me, most learned clerks of Oxenford,
yet I believe the critics arc correct. \Yhen I was prowl-
ing in the king's private library, in Paris, ~f. Barbier
placed in my hands two of the most pn•cious tomes,
the folio "Evangelistarium," or prayer-book of Charle"
magnc, and the 4to. edition of Ossian. The one is
sanctified by its subject, and rich beyond compare in
70 PIIAN'l'ASY FR0:\1 CEREBRAL EXCITEllE~T.
illuminations of gold and colours, and priceless in the
eyes of the bibliomaniac. The other was the favourite
book of Napoleon.
Fancy that you hear him in the solitude of St. Cloud,
poring in deep admiration over passages like this :
"Fingal drew his sword, the blade of dark-brown
Luno. The gleaming path of the steel winds through
the gloomy ghost. The form fell shapeless into air, like
a column of smoke as it rises from. the half-extinguished
furnace. The spirit ofLoda shrieked, as, rolled into him-
self, he rose on the wind. Inistore shook at the sound.
The waves heard it on the deep, and stopped in their
course with fear."
And yet these beauties, like the pictures of Turner,
are looked upon with a smile of wondering pity or of
scorn, simply because these home-keeping critics have
never scaled the mountain, or b:t;easted the storm for its
wild and purple glory.
Among the mountains of 'Vales it was my fortune to
light on many a wild spot, where the poetry of nature
fell like the sun-light on the heart of the peasant. In
the beautiful vale of Neath there is the tiny hamlet of
Pont-Neath-Vechan. I shall ever remember how fair
and beautiful it seemed as I descended from the moun-
tain rocks of Pen y Craig, the loftiest of the Alps of
Glamorgan, which inclose Ystrad-Vodwg, the "village of
the green valley." Around its humble cottages is spread
the most romantic scenery of Brecknockshire. The
tributaries of its rolling river there blend their waters-
those torrent streams which Drayton has impersonated
in the Polyolbion, as
" Her handmaids l\lelte sweet, clear Hcpste, and Tragath."
On the ~:Ieite is the wonderous cav~rn of Forth-
Mawr, through which, in Stygian darkness, flows this
Acherontic river. And on the clear Hepste is that glit-
PHA:"lTASY FR0:\1 CEIU.:BRAl. EXCITRliE:S'f. 7t
tering waterfall which in the midst of leafy woods and
bosky glens, throws itself, like a miniature N'iag-ara,
from the rock, forming an arch of crystal, beneath
which the traveller and the peasant cross the river's
bed on the moss-green and slippery limestone. Oh !
for the pencil of a Salvator, the pen of Torquato, to
picture the: wild vision which was before my eyes when
I sought shelter beneath this crystal can~py. from tht~
deluge of a thunder-cloud. The lightning flash gleamed
· through the waterfall, forming a prismatic rainbow of
transcendent beauty, while the deep peal swept through
the echoing dingles, and the crimson-spotted trout
leaped in sportive summersaults over the water-ousel
that was walking quietly on the gravel, deep in the
water.
In this wilderness of nature, no wonder that legends
should prevail : that fairies are seen sporting in the
Hepste cascades. and that in the dark cavern of Cwm-
Rhyd y Rhesg, the ghosts of headless ladies so often
affright the romantic girls of these wild valleys. No
wonder that they believe the giant Idris, enthroned on
his mountain chair, shook the three pebbles from his
shoe into that pool which bears the name of the Lake
of Three Grains; or that the shrieks of Prince ldwal
are to this day heard by the peasants of Snmvdonia,
amid the storm which bursts over the purple crag of the
Twll-dhu, and thunder-clouds cast a deeper and a
darker shade over the black water of Lyn ldwal. Nay,
I myself may confess, that as I have stood on the peaks
ofY "\Vyddfa, while the white and crimson clouds rolled
beneath me in fleecy masses, whirling around the cone
of Snowdon, I have for a moment belien:d that 1 was
something more than earthly. And when enveloped in
the mvsterious cloud which rests on the head of Mount
Pilate..in Lucern, I gave half my faith to the legend of
the guide, that storm and human trouble, and the perils
6
72 PHANTASY FROll CEREBRAL EXCITE:liEXT.
of flocks in the vicinity of its triple peak, were the re-
sult of the self-immersion of Pontius Pilate in its lake,
an act of remorse at his impious adjudication. This
unhallowed water was regarded with dismay, and not a
pebble might be cast to make a ripple on its surface
and disturb the quiet of the traitor. But, lo ! in the
sixteenth century the spell was proved to be a fable by
an assemblage of bold Switzers, who hurled rocks into
the lake, and swam across its wate! without the slightest
indication of displeasure from this kelpie of the Brun-
deln Alp.
Ev. The truth is sweeter on your lips than fiction,
Castaly. 'Vhisper again in the ear of Astrophel the
penalties entailed on the indulgence of second sight.
Dr. Abercrombie knew a gentleman who could, by his
will, call up spirits, and seers have assured me tliat the
sight is to a certain degree voluntary :-by fixing the
attention on a subject during the dark hour, the power
of divination may be increased, but it cannot be con-
trolled. But those who indulge in those illusions are
often driven on to a degree of frenzy equal to the
agonizing p.enalty ofFrankenstein ; even as the witch of
Endor trembled when she raised before Saul the spirit
of Samuel, or the Iberian princess Pyrene, who, like Sin,
fled from the child-serpent which was born from her
dalliance with Hercules.
The effort of the seers, nay, the mysterious ordeal to
which they submit themselves, are often so painfu1, that
they gaze with strained eyeballs, and fainting occurs as
the vision appears. \Vhen the dark hour is o'er, they
will exclaim with:\'lac Aulay, "Thank God, the mist hath
passed from my spirit!" Indeed, Sir 'Valter Scott ob-
served in those who presumed to this faculty, "shades
of mental aberration which caused him to feel alanncd
for those who assumed the sight." Archibald, Duke of
Argyle, was a seer, and it is written that he was haunted
PIIAXTASY Fll.OM CEREBRAL lO: XGITE~Il.-::"'1'. n
by hlue phantoms, the origin, I believe, of our epithet
for melancholy-" blue devils."
At the foot of yonder purple mountains in ~Jorgany,
once lived Colonel Bowen, a doer of evil works, whose
spectral visitations fill so many pages ofJJaxtcr's" Essay
on the Reality of Apparitions." This deep historian of
the realm ·of shadows tells that the wizard was worn
down by the phantoms of his evil conscience ; that he
imprisoned himself and his boy, who was, I presume, a
sort of famulus, in a small castle; that he walked and
talked of diablerie, and I kno\v not what miseries, in his
sleep.
I have myself known those who sec spectres when
they shut their eyes, before an attack of delirium, which
vanish on the re-admission of light ; and in imaginative
minds, under peculiar conditions, intense reading may
so shut out the real world, that an effort is required to
re-establish vision. In Polydori's "Vampyre" it is re-
corded that they had been reading phantasmagoria, and
ghost stories in Germany, thereby highly exciting the
sensitive mind of Percy Bysshe Shelley. Anon, on
Byron's reading some lines of Christabel, Shelley ran
from the room, and was found leaning on a mantel-piece
bedewed with cold and clammy perspiration; and it is
enough to read of the gloom which marked the minds
of those geister-sehers, the proselytes of Swedcnborg
(among whom he ranked the King of Prussia), to reclaim
all the converts to his strange religion.
AsTR. There is a bright side, Evelyn. In Germany,
those children which arc born on a Sunday are termed
" Sontag's kind," and arc believed to be endowed with the
faculty of seeing spirits ; these are gifted with a life of
happiness.
Ev. And you believe it. \Yell, for a moment I grant
its truth; but it is the reverse in Scotland; the vision is
almost ever cheerless, and prophetic of woe. " Docs
74 PHAXTASY l:o'ROli CEREBRAL EXCITEliEXT.
the sight come gloomy o'er your spirit?" asks ~facAulay.
"As dark as the shadow of the moon when she is dark-
ened in her course in heaven, and prophets foretell of
future times." And the anathema of Roderich Dhu's
prophet Brian is dark and gloomy as the legend of his
mysterious birth, or its prototype, the impure fable of
Atys, and the loves of Jupiter and Sangaris.
CAsT. If I am the sylph to charm this moody gen-
tleman from his reveries, I will -w:arn him in the words
of a canzonet, even of the 17th century :
" Yet, rash astrologer, refrain;
Too dearly would be won
The prescience of another's pain,
If purchased by thine own."
And I will tell him what Collins writes on the perils of
the seer, in his "Ode on Highland Superstition,"-
"How they whose sight such dreary dreams engross,
With their o"n vision oft astonished droop,
'Vhen o'er the wat'ry strath or quaggy moss
They see the gliding ghosts embodied troop.-
They bow what spirit brews the stormful day,
And, heartless, oft like moody madness stare
To see the phantom tr-d.in their secret work prepare."
He listens not to me. Nay, then, I will try the virtue
of a spell that has oft shed a ray of light over the dark
hour of the ghost-seer. I will whisper music in thine
ear, Astrophel. The fiend of Saul was chased away by
the harp of David; the gloomy shadows of Allan ~{ac
Aulay were brightened by the melody of Annot Lyle ;
and the illusion of Philip of Spain, that he was dead
and in his grave, was dispelled by the exquisite lute of
the Rose of the Alhambra.
AsTR. l\'Iy thanks, fair Castaly; yet wherefore should
I claim your syren spells. 'ftfy visions are delightful as
the inspiration of the improvisatore, and carry not the
PHANTASY FROM CEREBRAL EXClT~~:\lE:'IiT. 7t;
penalty of the monomaniac. But say, if there ht~ ;in
vulgar words) a crack in this cranium of mine, may uot
this crack, as saith the learned Samuel Parr, " let in tlw
ligltt ?"
If prophetic visions in the early ages came over the
dying, why not in ours?
The last·solemn speech of Jacob was an inspired pro-
phecy of the miraculous advent :-" The sceptre shall
not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between
his feet, until Shiloh come, and to him shall the gather-
ing of the people be." And is it profhnation to ask,,
why may not the departing spirit of holiness, even now,
prophecy to us ?
As we see the stars from the deep well, so may such
spirits look into futurity from the dark abyss ofdissolu-
tion. In some cases of little children, I have learned
that this unearthly feeling has caused them to anticipate
their dying. How pathetically does John Evelyn, in
his Diary, allude to the anticipation of his little boy,--
"an angel in body and in mind, who died of a quartan
ague, in his fifth year. The day before he died, he
called to me and told me that, for all I loved him so
dearly, I should give my house, lands, and all my fine
things, to his brother."
The dying seem indeed themselves to feel that they
are scarcely of this world. Holcroft, a short time before,
his death, hearing his children on the stairs, said to his
wife," Are those your children, Louisa ?"-as if he were
already in another existence. As if the human mind
itself were perusing the celestial volume of the recording
angel,-the awful book of fate.
"Then the Northern Indian is stretched on the tor-
ture, even amidst his agonies, an inspired combir~ation
of belief and hope presents him with vivid pictures of
the blessed regions of the Kitchi :Manitou. The faith-
76 PHANTASY FR0:\1 CEREBRAL EXCITE:\IEX1'.
ful Mussulman, in the agonies of death, feels assured
that his enchanted sight is blessed by the beautiful
houris in 11ahomet's paradise. The Runic warriors
also, as the Icelandic chronicles record in their epi-
taphs, when mortally wounded in battle, " fall, laugh,
and expire ;" and in this expiration, like the dying
warriors of Homer, predict the·fate of their enemies.
As the venom of the serpent curdled the blood in the
veins of Regner Lodbrog, the Dani~h king, he exclaimed
with ecstasy,-" '\'nat new joys arise within me! I am
dying! I hear Odin's voice; the gates of his palace are
already opened, and half-naked maidens advance to
meet me. A blue scarf heightens the dazzling white-
ness of their bosoms ; they approach and present me
with the soul-exhilarating beverage in the bloody skulls
of my enemies." ·
Ev. In that awful moment, w?en the spirit is
" Soon from his cell of clay
To burst a. seraph in the blaze of day,"
the mind i~ prone to yield to those feelings which it
might perhaps in the turmoil of the busy world and at
another period deem superstition. There is something
in the approach of death of so holy and so solemn a
nature, something so unlike life in the feeling of the
dying, that in this transition, although we cannot com-
pass the mystery, some vision of another world may
steal over the retiring spirit, imparting to it a proof of
its immortality. I do not fear to yield for once my
approval of this devout passage of Sir Thomas Brown :
-" It is observed that men sometimes upon the hour
of their departure do speak and reason above them-
selves, for then the soul begins to be freed from
the ligaments of the body, and to discourse in a
strain above mortality." It is on the verge of eternity,
PIIAXTASY FH0!\1 CEREBIL\L F!XCITE!\11<:~1',
and the laws and principles of vitality may be alrcad)
repealed by the Being who conferred them.· .frhc ar~u­
ments, then, regarding the phenomena of life may fail,
when life has all but ceased.
\Vith this admission, I may counsel .Astrophcl as to
the danger of adducing heathen history or fiction m
proof of thi,s solemn question.
CAsT. And yet Shaksperc, for one, with a poet's li-
cense, brings before us, as you do, the dying hour, as
the cause of prophetic vision. John of Gaunt, on his
death-bed, mutters,-
" l\lethinks I am a prophet new inspired,
And thus expiring do foretell of him,"
and then predicts the fate of Richard.
And remember, the dying Hotspur says,-"
--"now could I prophecy,
But that the icy hand of death," &c.
Ev. \Veil, I will not controvert your creed, Astrophcl;
rather let me illustrate some of your apparent mysteries
by simple analogy.
As in these extreme moments of life, so in the hour
of extreme danger, when an awful f~te is impending,
and the world and our sacred friendships arc about to
be lost to us, a vision of our absent friends will pn."is
before us with all the light of reality. '\Ve read in the
writings of Dr. Conolly of a person who, in danger of
being swamped on the Eddystone rock, saw the phan-
toms of his family passing distinctly before him; and
these are the words of the English Opium-Eater :-- " I
was once told by a near relative of mine that, having in
her childhood fallen into a river, and being on the 'cry
verge of death but for the critical assistance which
reached her, she saw in a moment her whole life in its
78 PHAXTASY FR0:\1 CEREBRAL EXCITE:\IEXT.
minutest incidents arrayed before her simultaneously,
as in a mirror, and she had a faculty developed as sud-
denly for comprehending the whole and every part."
Now, although the coming on of death is often at-
tended by that slight delirium indicated by the babbli11g
of green fields, and the playing with flowers, and the
picking of the bedclothes, and the smiling on the
fingers' ends, yet in others some oppressive or morbid
cause of insanity may be removed by the moribund con-
dition. In the words of Aretreris,-" the system has
thrown off many of its impurities, and the soul, left
naked, was free to exercise such energies as it still pos-
sessed."
I will glance in illustration at these interesting cases :-
from Zimmerman, of an insane woman of Zurich, who,
" a few hours before her death, became perfectly sensi-
ble and wonderfully eloquent ;"-from Dr. Perceval, of
a female idiot, who, as she was ·dying of consumption,
evinced the highest powers of intellect ;-from Dr.
~Iarshall, of the maniac, who became completely ra-
tional some hours previous to his dissolution ;-and
from Dr. Hancock, of the Quaker, who, from the condi-
tion of a drivelling idiot, became shortly before his
death so completely rational, as to call his family toge-
ther, and, as his spirit was passing from him, bestow
on them with pathetic solemnity his last benediction.
Thus your impressive records are clearly explained
by pathology ; and, perhaps unconscious of this, l\lrs.
Opie has a fine illustration in her " Father and Daugh-
ter :"-the mind of the maniac parent being illumined
before his death by a beam of reason.
But in the languid brain of an idio~ excitement may
even produce rationality.
Samuel Tuke tells us of a domestic servant, who
lapsed into a state of complete idiocy. Some time after,
she fell into typhus fever, and as this J>rogrcssed, thcrr
was a real development of mental power. .\t that stagt
when delirium lighted up the minds of others, site wa"
""
rational, because the excitement merely brought up the
nervous energy to its proper point. As the fever abated,
however, she sunk into her idiot apathy, and thus con·
tinued until she died. It was but the transient gtc~am.
of reason.
PHANTASY FROM CEREBRAL CONGES-
TION.-OPIUM.
- " Have we eaten of the insane root,
That takes the reason prisoner?" MACBETH.
Ev. The contrasts to these phantoms of blind supersti-
tion, are those of the ot'erstrained condition of the mind.
The Creator has ordained the brain to be the soil in
which the mind is implanted or developed. This brain,
like the corn-field, must· have its fallow, or it is ex-
hausted and reduced in the degree of its high qualities.
In our intellectual government, therefore, we should
ever adopt that happy medium, equally remote from
the bigotry of the untutored, and the ultra refinement
of the too highly cultivated mind.
It is not essential that I should now offer you more
than a hint, that the essence of the gloomy ghosts of
deep study, like the melancholy phantoms and oppres-
sive demons of the night-mare, consists in the accumu-
lation of black blood about the brain and the heart;
and a glance at phrenology would explain to you how
the influence of that blood on the various divisions ot
the brain will call up in the mind these ·" Hydras and
Gorgons, and Chimeras dire."
PIL\N'I'ASY FRO~l CEREBRAL CO:\'GESTIO:\',
'fhc learned Pascal constantly saw a gulph yawning
at his side, but he was aware of his illusion. He wn.~~
however, ahvays strapped in his chair, lest he should
fall into this gulph, especially while he was working
the celebrated problem of the cycloidal cun·e.
A distinguished nobleman, who but lately guided the
helm of state in England, was often annoyed by the
spectre of a bloody head ;-a strange coincidence with
the phantom of the Count Duke d'Olivarez, the minister
of Philip of Spain.
From Dr. Conolly we learn the curious illusion of a
student of anatomy, who, during his ardent devotion to
his study, confidently believed that there was a town in
his deltoid muscle.
And, from Dr. Abercrombie, the case of a gentleman
of high literary attainments, who, ·when closely reading
in his study, was repeatedly annoyed by the intrusive
visits of a little old woman in a black bonnet and man-
tle, with a basket on her ann. So filmy, however, was
this phantom, that the door-lock was seen through her.
Supposing she had mistaken her way, he politely
showed her the door, and she instantly vanished. It
was the change of posture which effected this disap-
pearance, by altering the circulation of the brain-blood,
then in a state of partial stagnation.
~Iy friend, Dr. Johnson, has told me of a gentleman
of great science, who conceived that he was honoured
by the frequent visits of spectres. They were at first
refined and elegant both in manners and in conversa-
tion, which, on one occasion, assumed a witty turn, and
quips, and puns, and satire, were the order of the even-
ing; so that he was charmed with his ghostly visitors,
and sought no relief. On a sudden, however, they
changed into demoniac fiends, uttering expressions of
the most degraded and unholy nature. He became
alanned, and depletion soon cured him of his phantasy.
G
82 PIIAXTASY FRO~! CEREBRAL COXGES1'IOX.
A Scotch lawyer had long laboured under this kind
of monomania, which at length proved fatal. His phy-
sician had long seen that some secret grief was gnawing
the heart and sucking the life-blood of his patient, and
he at last extorted the confession, that a skeleton wa~
ever watching him from the foot of his bed. The phy-
sician tried various modes to dispel the illusion, and
once placed himself in the field of the vision, and was
not a little terrified when the patient exclaimed, that he
saw the skull peering at him over his left shoulder.
The "l\fartyr Philosopher," too, ·in the "Diary of a
Physician," saw, shortly preceding his death, a figure
in black deliberately putting away the books in his
study, throwing his pens and ink into the fire, and
folding up his telescope, as if they were now useless.
The truth is he himself had been engaged in that ·occu-
pation, but it was his own disordered imagination that
raised the spectre.
You will believe from these illustrations, Astrophel,
that Seneca is right in his aphorism,-
" Nullwn fit magnum ingenium sine mistura dementire."
And Pope also in his unconscious imitation,-
"Great wits to madness nearly are allied."
Lord Castlereagh, when commanding in early life a
militia regiment in Ireland, was stationed one night in
a large desolate country house, and his bed was at one
end of a long dilapidated room, while, at the other ex-
tremity, a great fire of wood and turf had been prepared
within a huge gaping old-fashioned chimney. "\Vaking
in the middle of the night, he lay watching from his
pillow the gradual darkening of the embers on the
hearth, when suddenly they blazed up, and a naked
child stepped from among them upon the floor. The
figure adYanced slowly towards Lord Castlereagh, rising
PHANTASY FROl\1 CEilEBUAI. CO~Of:S'l'IO~.
in stature at every step, until, on coming within two
or three paces of his bed, it had -assumed the appear-
ance of a ghastly giant, pale as death, with a bleeding
wound on the brow, and eyes glaring with rage and
despair. Lord Castlereagh leaped from his bed, and
confronted the figure in an attitude of defiance. It re-
treated bef9re him, diminishing as it withdrew in the
same manner that it had previously shot up and ex-
panded; he followed it, pace by pace, until the original
child-like form disappeared among the embers. He
then went back to his bed, and was disturbed no
more.
The melancholy story of the Requiem of :Mozart is
an apt and sublime illustration of this influence. It
was written by desire of a solemn personage, who
repeatedly, he affirmed, called on him during its com-
position, and disappeared on its completion. The re-
quiem was soon chanted over his own grave ; and the
mari in black was, I believe, but a phantom of his own
creation.
A step beyond this, and we have the spectres of the
delirium of fever: the wanderings of typhus, in which
the victim either revels with delight in the regions of
fa~cy, a midsummer madness, or is influenced by gloom
and despair, in which, with a consciousness of right and
wrong, he is driven headlong to acts of ruin and devas-
tation.
InA. In this Illusive condition of the intellect consists
even the monomania of suicide; and the phrenologist
will declare that torpor or excitement of the" organ of
the love of life," will incite or deter from such an act.
But surely this is error: it is certain that there was a
fashion among the Stoics for this crime; and even in'the
early history of Marseilles, suicide was sanctioned, not
only by custom, but by authority.
Ev. It is a truth of history, but the essence of the
G 2
8 t PII A XTASY FR0:\1 OPi ti :\1.
crime is the predisposition in the brain. You will think
to confute my position, Astrophel, by adducing Brutus
and Cassius, and Antony and Cato, and a host of Ro-
man heroes, in proof of the sanity of these suicides;
but even in the case of Cato, if we read Plutarch an~
not Addison, who with Rousseau, l\lontaigne, and
Shaftesbury, leaned toward a sanction, we shall believe
that Cato was indeed a monomaniac. I speak this in
charity.
And to all these morbid states we may still offer
analogies. Such a~e _
the effects of opium.
The brilliancy of thought may be artificially induced,
also, by various other narcotics, such as the juice of the
American manioc, the fumes of tobacco, or the yupa of
the Othomacoes on the Orinoco. To this end we learn
from a learned lord, that even ladies of quality are·wont
to "light up their minds with opium as they do their
houses with wax or oil."
Indeed a kind of inspiration seems for a time to follow
the use ofthese narcotics. The Cumean sybil swallowed
the juice of the cherry laurel ere she sat on the divining
tripod; and from this may have arisen those super-
stitious fancies of the ancients regarding the virtues of
the laurel, and the influence of other trees, of which I
remember an allusion of the excellent author of the
"Sylva."
" Here we may not omit what learned men have ob-
served concerning the custom of prophets and persons
inspired of old to sleep upon the boughs and branches of
trees, on mattrasses and beds made of leaves, ad consu-
lendum, to ask ad,; ce of God. Naturalists tell us that
the Law-us and Agnus Castus were trees which greatly
composed the phrem;y, and did facilitate true vision, and
that the first was specifically efficacious, 1r(>O{;' TOV{;'
fvOvcrtaCTftOVt;, to inspire a poetical fury : and Cardan, I
remember, in his book de Fato, insists very much on the
Pll A ~ 'rASY FltOll OPH. lL
dreams of trees for portents and presage:,, and that the
use of some of them do dispose men to visions.'·'
During the reverie of the opium cater (not the deep
sleep of a full dose, but the first and second stage ere
coma be induced), he is indeed a poet, so far as brilliaut
imagination is concerned, but his scribbling is mere
" midsumm'er madness," the phantoms of which arc as
wild as those of intoXication, dreaming, or insanity.
But the philosophy, the metaphysics of poetry, are not
the product of mere excitement: "Poeta nascitur, non
fit." A poet's genius is born with him. The influence
of opium on the philosopher or the orator is the·same,
but in them it does not usually elevate the force of
imagination beyond that of judgment. The power of
the faculties has been in fact exhausted by thought or
study; the stimulus of opium, then, restores that de-
pressed energy to its proper level, leaving the judgment
perfect, and not overbalanced. The celebrated Thomas
Brown, during the composition of his Essay on the
~lind, kept his intellect on the stretch by opium for
several successive nights. Sir James l\fackintosh (one
of his favourite pupils) informed us, that on entering
the do~tor's library one morning somewhat abruptly, he
overheard the following command addressed to his
daughter: "Effie, bring me the moderate stimulus of a
hundred drops of laudanum." So that the excitement
be obtained, it matters not how, whether by the usc of
opium, or other" drowsy syrups of the East, poppy or
mandragora," as in the case of some of our modern
statesmen ; or the free libation of brandy in certain
orators, who were wont to st.:'lgger down to the House
from ""bite's or Brookes's, with those clubhouse lmm:ls,
wet towels, round their brows, and overwhelm Saint
Stephen's by the thunders of their eloquence. l'nless,
indeed, this be carried to excess, and then we have two
very interesting st.:'ltcs of vision, as you may gather
86 PliA~TASY I<'ROll OPIUll.
from the following witticism on two of these departed
legislators, which was founded on a truth :
" I cannot see the Speaker, Bill, can you !
Not see him, Harry, d--e, I see two !"
For the effects of alcohol and opium are alike: the first
degree is excitement; the second, reverie; the third,sleep,
or stupor. "Ben Jonson," '~Tites Aubrey, "would
many times exceede in drink ; Cariarie was his beloved
liquor : then he would tumble home to bed, and when
he had thoroughly perspired, then to studie."
The second visions of that moral delinquent, the
practised opium-eater, like the cordial julep of Comus,
"Will bathe the drooping spirits in delight,
Beyond the bliss of dreams."
The phantoms of the third stage are often of unutter-
able anguish : visions of bright forms dabbled in blood,
and scenes of crime and horror which are at once
loathed and revelled in. The awful curse of Lord
Byron's infidel-a vampyre-who, haunting the grave-
yard with gouls and afrits, sucks the blood of his race :
" 'Till they nith horror shrink away
From spectre more accurs'd than they."
Thus for a moment of delirious joy, he yields up his
mind to the agonies of remorse, his body to a slow poi-
son, perhaps to a sinful dissolution.
InA. The scenes which I gazed on among the
opium-houses of Constantinople, ever excited my won-
der and my pity. These slaves of pleasure, when
they assemble and take their seats, are the perfect pic-
tures of either apathetic melancholy o:r despair. As
the potent poison creeps through the blood, they are
lighted with unholy fires, until, these being exhausted,
PllA~TASY l<'llOll OPI t ll. 87
the vulture of Prometheus again gnaws their vitals,
although the fire is not stolen froin htaven.
Listen to the confessions of such a slave:-
"At last, with the sense that all was lost, female
forms, and the features that were all the world to me,
and clasped hands, and heart-breaking partings, and
then everlasting farewells, and with a sigh such as the
caves of hell sighed, when the incestuous mother uttered
the abhorred name of Death, the sound was reverberated
-Everlasting farewells."
"'Vhatsoever things capable of being visually repre-
sented I did but think qf in the darkness, immediately
shaped themselves into phantoms of the eye; and, by a
process no less inevitable, when thus once traced in
faint and visionary colours, they were drawn out by the
fierce chemistry of my dreams, with insufferable splen-
dour that fretted my heart."
h there any earthly pleasure which will compensate
the victim of this voluntary condemnation ?
Ev. And yet a visionary once thought of renting the
Hummums in Covent Garden, and purchasing a large
stock of opium~- for the purpose of supplying us with
VISionS. He would have succeeded, perhaps, if he had
hired a second Helen to serve up this nepenthe to the
guests.
The intense effect of opium is insensibility or death.
Thus the Natches give narcotics to their victims, and
the Brahmins to the suttee women, ere they ascend the
pile, for the purpose of producing insensibility. Its
mildest effects will be, if long continued, especially in
early life, idiocy; and Oppenheim states that it is some-
times administered to adults by design, to substantiate
a statute oflunacy.
AsTR. I cannot disprove your facts, Evelyn, nor do
they yet disprove the rationality of my own faith.
And is there not one illusion from opium-eating which
88 PIIA:-o;TASY FRO~I OPIU~I.
seems to reverse your laws? From the tales of the
Opium-Eater we learn, that the healthy thoughts of the
mind seem to be frozen up in the brain, like the notes
in the frozen horn of ~funchausen, or the Irish echo
which was so long in giving its answers, that if you had
a concert, you should play and sing the airs lite day be-
fore the assemblage of your company. And then,
when the effect was wearing off, these thoughts followed
so copiously and fast, as that not one in a hundred
could be recorded. Is this tn1e ?
Ev. It is a slight fact embellished. The action of
opium, however, is not uniform : it may produce deep
sleep, or insensible stupor; or it may quiet some of the
faculties ; and when it does so, it excites a dream of
irregular associations.
The salts of morphia exert an especial influence over
the organ of language; so that the orator in the fluency
of his power of speech finds it 'difficult to stop. The
muriate is the best preparation to induce fluency and
confidence in speaking, or the mind to luxuriate through-
out a night. in delightful reverie; and in the morning,
after this phantasy, the body will even rise refreshed.
In some cases, however, morphia will create a very
strange illusion, a spectral language: so that, in reading
or listening, we may feel or think that the words have
lost their true meaning. This effect is, I am told, at-
tended with severe headache.
The poem of " Kubla Khan," which Coleridge has
termed a psychological curiosity, had its origin in the
excitement of opium, a spinning out of a theme in
"Purchas' Pilgrim," which he had been reading : it is
an effort of the poet in recording the wild images which
had been before presented to the mind's eye of the
enthnsiast,-the impression, indeed, of the pleasures
audthcp~nsofmemory.
POETIC PHAN'rASY, OR FRENZY.
" The poet's eye, in a line frenzy rolling,
Doth glance from heaven to earth-from earth to heaven.
And as imagination bodies forth
The forms of things unknown, the 11
oet's pen
Turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothings
A locl.l habitation, and a name."
MIDSUMMER NIGliT'!! DR!tAiol
As1:R. Is there so potent a chann in poppies, Evelyn ?
You will make us believe, soon, that opium can make a
Shakspere, that genius can be imparted by a drug.
The ghosts of fairy land, those bright emanations of
a poet's fancy, which are wafted through the air on the
thistle-down, or swing to and fro on the filmy thread of
the gossamer, sprang from a deeper source than this.
The fairy mythology of Shakspere, the beautiful crea-
tions of the "Tempest" and the ":Midsummer Night's
Dream," are the very offspring of that innate genius, that
" exhausted worlds, and then imagined new."
Those exquisite and tricksy spirits, the mischievous
Puck and the delicate Ariel, indeed, the whole train of
ghosts which appeared to ~facbeth, and Richard, and
Clarence, and Brutus, and Hamlet, and the spirits of
the "~fidsummcr Night," the "Tempest," and " ~lac­
beth," of Bolingbroke and Joan of Arc, could not
have been so painted, unless they had stood before the
mind of Shakspcrc as palpable as reality.
6
90 POETIC PHANTASY, OR FRE~ZY.
Look, too, .on those splendid illustrations of the
Gothic poets by the eccentric, or, as Evelyn would call
him, the half-mad Fuseli. Look on the wild pencillings
of Blake, another poet painter, and you will be assured
that they were ghost-seers. An intimate friend of
Blake, himself a reader of the stars, has told me the
strangest tales of his visions. In one of his reveries he
witnessed the whole ceremony of a fairy's funeral, which
he peopled with mourners and mutes, and described
with high poetic beauty. He was engaged, in one of
these moods, in painting King Edward I., who was
sitting to him for his picture. While they were con-
versing, "Vallace suddenly presented himself on the
field, and by this uncourteous intrusion marred the
studies of the painter for that day.
Ev. A most unhappy comparison, Astrophel. · The
difference between Shakspere and Blake is antipodean.
Blake was a visionary, and thought his fancies real-
he was mad. Shakspere was a philosopher, and knew
all his fancy was but imagination, howeyer real might
be the facts he 1\Tought from. Ben Jonson told Drum-
mond that he lay awake one whole night, gazing in
mute admiration on his great toe; surrounding which,
in miniature, appeared the inhabitants of Rome, and
Carthage, apd Tartary, and Turkey ; but he also was
aware of the illusion.
CAsT. ~Iy most gracious smile is yours, Evelyn, for
this honour to my sweet Shakspere. I pray you accord
the same to the spectral visions of a poet, in whose
beautiful Aminta each line is a breath of inspiration-
the day-dreams of the elegant Tasso. Listen.
" At Bisaccio, ~Ianso had an opportunity to examine
the singular effects of Tasso's melancholy; and often
disputed with him concerning a familiar spirit which he
pretended to converse with. ~Ianso endeavoured in
vain to persuade his friend that the whole was the illu-
POETIC PIL\.NTASY, Ull I<'H.EXZY. 91
sion of a disturbed imagination; but the latter was
strenuous in maintaining the reality of what he asserted·
and, to convince ~Ianso, desired him to be present a~
one of these mysterious conversations. ~fanso had the
complaisance to meet .him the next day, and while they
were engaged in discourse, on a sudden he observed
that Tasso·kept his eyes fixed upon a window, and re-
mained in a manner immoveable ; he called him by his
name several times, but received no answer. At last
Tasso cried out, 'There is the friendly spirit who is
come to converse with me: look, and you will be con-
vinced of the truth of all that I have said.' :Manso
heard him with surprise: he looked, but saw nothinO'
b
except the sunbeams darting through the window ; he
cast his eyes all over the room, but could perceive
nothing, and was just going to ask where the pretended
spirit was, when he heard Tasso speak with great
earnestness, sometimes putting questions to the spirit,
and sometimes giving answers, delivering the whole in
such a pleasing manner, and with such elevated ex-
pressions, that he listened with admiration, and had not
the least inclination to interrupt him. At last this un-
common conversation ended with the departure of the
spirit, as appeared by Tasso's words, who, turning to-
wards Manso, asked him if his doubts were removed.
~Ianso was more amazed than ever ; he scarce knew
what to think l)f his friend's situation, and waved any
further conversation on the subject."
Ev. I shall forfeit your smile, sweet Castaly, or
change it, alas ! for a frown. I have ever thought Tasso
a monomaniac, for he yielded to his illusion. I can give
you in a fragment from Lorry, the counterpart of Ta~so's
phantasy in a far different mind. "During these
paroxysms she would talk, and was accustomed to ad-
dress herself to some one individual present, with whom
she conversed at first in an obscure voice, but after-
92 POETIC PHA:\'TASY, OR FREXZY.
wards in a distinct and audible manner. She evi-
dently perceived him, and observed all his gestures; but
all she said to him bore a reference to one idea, on
which she was intent. In the mean time she appeared
not to see or hear any other person, even if he exerted
his voice to the utmost to make himself heard. This
fact I 'vitnessed with the greatest astonishment, but
many other persons are living who can attest it. The
mother of this female died unexpectedly, after which
the daughter used to hold conversations with her as if
she was present. She would answer questions as if in-
terrogated by her mother ; would entreat her to take
care of her health, and recommend some physician as
more able to restore her than others. l\foreover, she
would talk to her mother of her destined marriage, al-
though it had already been some time completed, ·in a
manner perfectly like that of a sane and modest young
woman, making some objections to it, and replying to
others, and appeared to be revealing all her secret
wishes; in a word, she seemed perfectly collected and
rational, exc(!pting the error respecting time, and the
supposed presence of her mother. This woman had
in other respects good health, but was afraid of the
smallest noise, and was easily affected by any thing she
saw or heard. At length she fell into a consumption."
In other cases, especially in accomplished minds, the
phantasy is usually combined with derangement of health.
A very ingenuous and elegant young lady, about the age
of seventeen, was suddenly seized with cabtlepsy. It
commenced with violent convulsions of almost every
muscle of her body, and the most distressing hiccoughs.
In about an hour came on a fixed spasm, one hand being
placed against her head, and the other to support it. In
about half an hour more, the spasm subsided, and then
began the reverie in a moment, her eyes an~l expression
indicating a fixed attention. She then conversed with
POETIC I'lL\ ~1'A8Y, OR f'ltEXZ \
imaginary persons, her eyes being wide open, and
during this ecstas-y she was completely insensible to
the most irritating, and indeed most V'iolcnt .~timuli.
Sir Henry Halford related to us, that on a visit to a
person of exalted rank in his chamber, he heard him
with great energy request Garrick to play a scene in
" Hamlet," reminding him of the lines in Horace's
Epistles:
" Haud ignobilis Argis1
Qui se credebat mirot~ audire tmgcedos,
In vacuo lretus seRsor plausorque theatl"O."
In Dr. Darwin, too, we read of an epileptic girl, who
during a fit of reverie, when insensible to all extenml
stimuli, conversed fluently with imaginary people, and
was surprised to hear of her illusions when fully awake.
And, in Andral, of a gentleman of distinguished
ability, who believed that an absent friend was sitting
amo'ng his guests, welcoming him to his table, and,
with great courtesy, handing him a chair. You re-
member how pathetically Crabbe has illustrated this
illusion in his poem of "Sir Eustace Gray."
CAsT. Hark to the profane philosopher who asso-
ciates poetry with madness ! Tell me, l\Iaster Evelyn,
while you wandered in the 'Vater walks of l\1agdalene,
with the balmy breezes of heaven around your brow,,
and the mellow sunbeam streaming through the green
leaves upon your cheek, with the inspired Yolumes of
Virgil, and fheoeritus, and Bion, and l\1oschus, breath-
ing nature in all the lines of their beautiful idyls-while
. Astrophel, perchance, was musing among cobwebs in
Friar Bacon's study-tell me, felt you not the sublimity
and truth of poesy? You remind me of the quaint t-m .
dition among the shepherds of Snowdonia, that if two
persons lie down, on midsummer eve, to sleep upon a
certain rock on Snowdon, one will ·wake a poet", the
94 POETIC PHANTASY, OR FREXZY.
other a maniac. I pr'ythee, think otherwise of Tasso,
whose reveries were an ecstasy of bright thoughts.
Even when the light of day is eclipsed, as when the
senseless orbs of Homer and ~1ilton were merged in
" ever~during dark," the thoughts of a poet may be
deeper and clearer for the gloom.
InA. And so pure and holy withal. In the "Defen-
sio Secunda," I remember this gem of sentiments:-
" Xnvolved in darkness, not so much from the imper-
fection of our optic powers, as from .the shadow of the
Creator's wings,-a darkness which he frequently irra-
diates ·with an inner and far superior light."
Never did poet feel more intensely than ~filton the
truth of that divine thought, that " the shadow of God
is light."
CAsT. And call up that glory of the Elizabethan
age, Philip Sidney, whose life, in the words of Camp-
bell, was " a poetry in action,"' and who more than
embodied the brightest pictures of Tasso and Ariosto,
and eclipsed the glory of that Chevalier Bayard, like
himself, " s~s peur et sans reproche."
Ev. I cry you mercy, fairest ladies, I speak not of
the light of poetry, but of its shadows. Cheromania
is the first form of monomania, or the madness of one
idea; and this is marked by cheerfulness and splendid
ideas, which indeed often tend to mitigate the melan-
choly scenes of derangement, as if "the light that led
astray was light from heaven." I will illustrate this by
repeating to you the letter to his brother, of a young
officer, whose progressive changes of mind, from excite-
ment to confirmed mania, it was my duty to watch over.
Deumber 4th, 1832.
"To , Esq.
"I am Lord President of the Cminsil, a most
honorable situation, and the richest gift of the Crown,
POETIC PIIAXTASY, OR l<'RF.XZY. 95
which brings me in seven thousand pounds every year.
The Counsil consists of Three Secretaries of State, of
which I am one; and the Paymaster of the Forces.
\Vhen the King \Villiam the forth shall die, then shall
be crowned King of England, and be crowned in
W estermister Abbey, By The Lord Archbishop of
Canterbury." I shall on the occasion of my coronation
have placed in the different street of London one
thousand pipes of wine for my people, and at night
in the of Hyde the Park a magnificent display of
Fireworks, and one hundred. pieces of Artillery shall
fire three rounds for the amusement of my people
and subjects. I have only now to give you a list of
my titles and honors :
" King of England.
First Heir Presumptive to the Crown.
~Iajor General and Field :Martial.
, Duke of Leitzep.
Prince of Denmark.
Lord President of the Counsil.
Knight Banneret.
Lord Treasurer of the Exchequer.
Lieutenant Colonel--, Lord and Baronet.
Aid de Camp to the King.
Champion of England.
" Dear --, I wish to acquaint you that \Vindsor
Castle belongs to me, that the palace of Brighton also
belongs to me, also I purchased from the Duke of \Vel-
lington the splendid park and Palace of Stratfieldsea,
wherein there are very extensive Forests of Oak and of
Pines trees, together with a magnificent sheet of \Yater
containing Ells and Salmon Trout.
" Dear --, I have to beg that you give my love
and duty to your wife-and give this letter to read,
I pray you, according to my desire and wish."
96 POETIC Pli.\:X'l'ASY, OR FREXZY.
I may tell you that the very onset of frenzy is often
but an elevated spirit of poesy, in which brilliancy
and judgment shall be companions; but, like JEsop's
bow, the mind shall be warped and wrung by being
constantly bent on its subject ; and thus the source
of brilliancy and wit may be the source of madness.
A change of subject 'viii often do much to unbend
such a mind, as a change of posture will relieve mus-
cular fatigue, or as a sudden impression of fear or
fright has thwarted a suicide on the moment of his
self-attempt. Indeed mania will often appear to induce
an almost inspired talent, which, I may hint to you,
may be explained by the oxygenizing of the blood in
the brain.
In Van Swieten, we read of a working female who,
dw·ing fits of insanity, displayed the faculty of rhyming,
or poetic talent; and (as I am fond of analogy) in Pinel,
of one who, during his insane' moments, argued (as if
from concentrated memory) in an acute and intelligent
manner, on the events of the Revolution.
Then Haller tells us of an idiot, who was wounded
on the head, and, during its healing, the intellect be-
came lucid (and this on the principle of a counter-
action) ; but, on the healing being completed, again the
creature was an idiot.
"\cVhen we are roaming over the flowery fields ofpoesy,
we are seldom inclined to reflect on the mental labour
by which they are embellished. 'Ve may suppose that,
whatever is born of the brain is ushered in by an easy
birth; but poesy is often attended by a pang of partu-
rition, and one single line may rankle in the brain for
hours ere it struggle into light; and, perhaps, require a
frontal blow, as violent as that which cleft the skull of
Jupiter and gaye birth to Pallas.
There are some minds which can support the effort of
composition with impunity; but when we recollect the
POETIC I•HA.NTASY, OU PRE.XZY. 97
diseases which are entailed on genius-the melancholy
of Cowper, and the distraction of the amiable Collins,
who
" passed in madd'ning pain life's feverish dream,
\Vhile rays ofgenius only served to show
The thick'ning hoiTor, and exalt his woe ;"
when we remember the gloomy setting of the brilliant
sun ofScott,during the period ofhis apoplectic tendency,
when his letter "filled the minds of his publishers with
dismay," and he sunk into the delusive hope that his
debts were liquidated to the full; when we are told
that Ariosto was never seen to laugh, and rarely to
smile ; that Rousseau was ever restless, and on the
verge of mania; when we reflect on the premature
decay of unhappy White-
" When science self destroyed her fav'rite son ;"
on the painful conflicts of Byron, when his dark hour
was on him; on Chatterton, "the sleepless boy who
perish'd in his pride:" we are incited, almost uncon-
sciously to echo the apostrophe of Wordsworth :-
" We poets in our youth·begin in gladness,
But thereof comes in the end despondency and madness.''
InA. The laurel, then, contains more poison than that
of prussic acid in its leaf. The perils of romance are
not ever in these extremes ; yet the mere indulgence of
poetic thoughts may so raise the beau-ideal of beauty
in the sensitive and youthful mind, as to unfit it for the
common duties of life. Like Narcissus, the heart pe-
rishes for love of its own shadow. It becomes so acutely
sensitive, as to " die of a rose in aromatic pain :" or like
the Sybarite, it cannot sleep, because a crumpled rose-
leaf lay beneath the pillow.
II
gg POETIC PHA:XTASY, OR FRE:XZY.
I have often thought that the secret of happiness
may lie in this precept : "Take the good of life as it is,
a divine gift, and not an agreeable deception ;" when
evil is in your path, search its cause, analyze its nature,
and if you discover not that you have yourself to thank
for it, at least you may prove that the evil itself is
made up of mere trifles, and thus you will learn to be
resigned.
And with the beauty and treasures of earth : if you
possess them, enjoy them with a prudent and a grateful
heart. If they belong to others, sigh not-pine not
for them, but analyze them also, and you may find that
the hope of their enjoyment was a phantom; for aggre-
gated beauties are often made up of deformed or un-
lovely atoms.
I might illustrate my remarks by relating to you an
episode of the life of my young. friend Stanmore; from
which I learned, with sorrow, that the heart may droop
beneath its own excess of sensibility, (a mystery to
those who were strangers to its secret,) and that the
blossom of·love may be self-blighted:
His existence was a withered hope, that, like the
icicle in the cup of the early flower, freezes the life-
spring in which it is so deeply embosomed. In his
mind was lighted a vision of Elysium, beyond what
earth with all its virtue and beauty could give him : a
spectral Utopia. His life was a blank. He found not
happiness, because he knew not contentment. He was
the leader of many a forlorn hope in Spain, and fell in
a midnight enterprise among the guerillas in the Sierra
l\Iorena."
Ev. And had the sword spared him, he would have
died a moral suicide.
What folly, thus to chase a butterfly, instead of yield-
ing to the virtuous influence of woman, which, beyond
aught else, softens and ennobles man's heart; entranc-
POETIC PHANTASY, OR J.'R.ENZY. 99
ing it in floods of human passion, which, with all its
pains, yields happiness a thousan-
d-fold more than the
maudlin sentiments of Rousseau, that, reducing love to
a mere phantom, leave the lone heart to prey on its
own sensibility.
Such was the romantic poet of Endymion, who for
the phantom of his waking dreams, gave up the study
of that science, which might have nursed and fortified
a mind, so soon chilled to death by the icy finger of
criticism. Erato was the m~stress of John Keats; but
while he wooed, he perished: like the Rosicrucian, who,
to save the life of his lady, took the oath of celibacy,
and thus lost her love for ever. Even in the lecture-
room of Saint Thomas's, I have seen Keats in a deep
poetic dream: his mind was on Parnassus with the
muses. And here is a quaint fragment which he one
evening scribbled in our presence, while the precepts of
Sir :Astley Cooper fell unheeded on his ear :-
" Whenne Alexandre the Conqueroure was wayfay-
ringe in ye londe of lnde, there mette hym a damosclle
of marveillouse beautie slepynge uponne the herbys and
floury:s. He colde ne loke uponne her withouten grete
plesance, and he was welle nighe loste in wondrement.
Her forme was everyche whytte lyke ye fayrest car-
vynge of Quene Cythere, onlie thatte yt was swellyd
and blushyd wyth warmthe and lyffe wythalle.
" Her forhed was as whytte as ys the snowe whyche
ye talle hed of a Norwegian pyne stelythe from ye nor-
theme wynde. One of her fayre hondes was )lJlaced
thereonne, and thus whytte wyth whytte was ymyngld
as ye gode Arthure saythe, lyke whytest lylys yspredde
on whyttest snowe; and her bryghte eyne whenne ,she
them oped, sparklyd lyke Hesperus through an evenyngc
cloude.
"Theye were yclosyd yn slepe, save that two slaun-
tynge raies shotte to her mouthe, and were theyre
n2
100 POETIC PHA:STASYl OR FRE~ZY.
bathyd yn swetenesse, as whenne bye chaunc~ ye moone
fyndeth a banke of violettes and droppethe thereonne
ye sylverie dewe.
"The authoure was goynge onne withouthen des-
crybynge ye ladye's breste, whenne lo, a genyus ap-
pearyd-' Cuthberte,' saycth he, 'an thou canst not
descrybe ye ladye's breste, and fynde a simile there-
unto, I forbyde thee to proceede yn thy romaunt.'
Thys, I kennd fulle welle, far surpassyd my feble
powres, and forthwythe I was fayne to droppe my
quille."
PHANTASY FROM SYMPATHY WITH 1'HE
BRAIN.
" My eyes are made tbe fools o' the other senses."
MACBETH.
AsTR. I marvel not, lady, that those pencilled brows
do frown upon the ruthless scholar, who thus dares to
dismantle the fair realm of poesy, and bind the poppy,
and the cypress, and the deadly nightshade, with the
myrtle and the laurel.
We shall have, ere long, a statute of lunacy against
the poet and the seer; or hapless, he will imprison thee,
fair creature, within a cloven pine: and like Prospero, I
must break my wand and bury it certain fathoms in the
earth; and, deeper than ever plummet sounded,drown my
books. The pages of Ptolemy, and Haly, and Agrippa,
and Lily, will be but bygone fables: and the meta-
physics of the mighty mind will be controverted by the
slicing of the brain and marrow with the knife of these
anatomists. Nay, we must devoutly believe what they
so learnedly give out, that frontal headaches in the loca-
lity of form, colour, and number, and forsooth in the
organ of wonder too, often accompany spectral illusions,
and that white or grey ghosts result from excited form
and deficient colour!!
102 PHANTASY FROli SYMPATHY
Martin Luther, who was a believer in special in-
fluence, quarrelled with the physician, who referred its
mystic signs to natural causes. I am not so uncol.rr-
teous, yet express my wonder, Evelyn, at the confidence
with which you presume to the discovery of a material
reason and a cause, for all the phenomena of our mys-
terious intellect.
Ev. And why should I not, dear Astrophel, if I
search for and discover it in the studies of that sublime
science, the meditation on which inspired Galen with
this pious sentiment: "Compono hie profecto can-
ticum in Creatoris nostri laudem."
Is it more profane to think that the Deity should
speak to us through the medium of our senses, than by
the agency of a spirit? Recollect, I have presumed
neither to enter deeply into metaphysical reasoning,
nor to describe, minutely, the condition of the brain ;
and I have alluded but slightly to the supposed func-
tion of its varied structures. Lord Bacon has observed :
" He who would philosophize in a due and proper man-
ner must dissect nature, but not abstract her, as they
are obliged to do who will not dissect her." Dissection,
however, in its anatomical sense, has not, perhaps can-
not, elucidate the coincidence of symptom and pathology
in cases which so seldom prove fatal, and the causes of
which may be so evanescent. Still, jt is only by a
combination of metaphysical argument and anatomical
research, with the essential aid of analogy, that the
phenomena and disease of mind can be fairly investi-
gated.
In the important question of insanity, there is an
error among the mere metaphysicians that is fraught
with extreme danger-the abstract notion ofmoral causes
being the chief excitement of mania. 'rhis error has led
to that melancholy abuse of the coercive treatment and
excitement of fear in a maniac; as if a savage keeper
WITH '!'liE BRAIN. IO;l
possessed the wondrous power of frightening him into
his wits. Hear what the magniloquent Reil writes on
this point : " The reception of a lunatic should be amid
the thunder of cannon; he should be introduced by
night, over a drawbridge, be laid hold of by ~loors,
thrust into a subterranean dungeon, and put into a bath
with eels and other beasts!"
And Lichtenberg, another moral philanthropist, sanc-
tioned by· the divine axiom-" the rod helps God,"
urges the employment of co~rcion and cruelty for this
sublime psychological reason : that under the infliction
of the lash and the cane, "the soul is forced to knit
itself once more to that world, from which the cudgel.s
come !" Think ye that these moralists, if not hood-
winked by false metaphysics, would have so closely
copied the malevolence of an inquisitor or a devil?
We must believe that each illusive representation is
marked by some change in some certain portion of the
brain, the fun~tion of which bears a reference to the
subject or nature of the illusion : it may be so minute
as not to be recognized by our vision. Indeed, if the
bodily sensations of. every human passion be faithfully
analyzed, it will be proved that there is an unu~mal feel-
ing in some part, when 'even a thought passes through
the mind, unq.er these definitions :-a thrill, a creeping,
a glow, a flush, .a chill, a tremor,-nay, even fainting,
convulsion, death.
Now the brain feels, and thinks, and wills; but the
blood is also essential to these faculties. If part of the
brain is changed, or its circulation deranged, in that
instant an effect unlike health is produced : and such is
the illusion of the ghost-seer. Or if the substanc~ of
the organ of sense, as the eye, be altered, its function is
deranged, and an illusive spectrum appears to float be-
fore it. Nay, we are assured by Tiedeman and Gall,
(opinions of high value,) that they have known patients
104 PHA:-.lTASY FROll SYllPATHY
who (smile as you please) were mad only on one side of
the brain, and perceived their madness with the other;
and I may assure you, too, that there have been persons
who really thought with half the brain only.
I will again claim the courtesy of these fair dames,
while I offer another glimpse of the dull cold region of
physiology.
Recollect the illustrations I have adduced in allusion
to those classes, on whose privacy the ghost has the
privilege of intrusion. I will now offer illustrations of
those remote influences which work these seeming mys-
teries in the sensitive or diseased brain.
A patient of Dr. Gregory, at the hour of six, one hour
after dinner, was daily visited by a hag, or incubus,
which confronted him, and appeared to strike hi~ with
a crutch. Immediately on this he would fall from his
chair in a swoon. This gent~eman was relieved by
bleeding and abstinence.
The Abbe Pilori, in Florence, invariably saw the
phantom of scorpions around him, after he had par-
taken of luQcheon.
There was a gentleman in Edinburgh, learned in
fourteen languages, of the age of seventy-sb:. In 1819,
he began to see strange faces, in old dresses, like paint-
ings, and his own face changing from young to old ;
and these phantoms came at his call. 'Vine drinking
increased especially these spectres, during the twelve
years that the illusion continued; yet his mental facul-
ties were not much impaired. 'Yhen eighty years old,
he came to London to dine with the Knights of the
Bath, and went back at the rate of a hundred miles
a-day. His language latterly was a patois of fourteen.
One night he saw his dead wife's shadow, and jumped
after her out of the window, and ran after her through
the conservatory; yet he remembered, when told that
his wife was dead, and was then quiet. Disorded diges-
WITH TllE BRAJX. 105
tion ·aggravated his case extremely. :Mr. Cragg's opi-
nion was, that " his thinking was correct, but the
expression of thought wrong.'' On examination, the
dura mater was found adherent to the skull : in parts
there was a thick effusion and vascularity over the
brain, and the carotids were partially ossified.
In a mind·excited or exhausted, the natural sympathy
between the brain and the stomach is wrought up to an
extreme. And in the two most interesting cases of
spectral illusion on record, this instance is beautifully
illustrated. The bookseller of Berlin, Nicolai (whose
phantasms are become so hackneyed a tale in the re-
cords of Psychology), had been thus mentally excited.
It were long to repeat the circumstantial and scientific
detail of his waking visions; of his ghosts of departed
friends, and of strangers to him, and of the groups of
shadowy figures which glided through his chamber at
these spectral levees ; and how his philosophic mind
distinguished the intrusion of the spectre at the door
and the real friend to whom its opening gave admit-
tance ; and how they disappeared when he shut his
eyes, and came again as he opened his lids ; or how he
was aflast amused by his analysis of all these illusive
spectra. But the sympathy to which I have alluded
will be efficiently proved by one quotation from the
Prussian's recital. During the time leeches were ap-
plied to his temples, his chamber was crowded with
phantoms. " This continued uninterruptedly till about
half-past four o'clock, when my digestion commenced.
I then fancied that they began to move more slowly:
soon after, their colour began to fade, and at seven
o'clock they were entirely white; then they seemed .to
dissolve in the air, while fragments of some of them
continued visible a considerable time." On other occa-
sions, they attempted to re-appear, and changed to
white, more and more faintly as his health improved.
106 PHAXTASY FROli SYliPATHY
There is equal interest, both for science and curiosity,
in the illusion of ~Irs. A. (as told by Brewster, in his
"Natural ~Iagic"), and which sprung from the like
causes. The sympathetic sensitiveness of this lady was
so acute, that an expression of pain in another produced
it in the corresponding part of herself. And she, too,
was intruded on by spectres of men and women, and
cats and carriages, and by corpses in shrouds peering
over her shoulder at her toilet-glass, and ghastly like-
nesses of gentlemen in grave-clothes, sitting unceremo-
niously in arm chairs in her drawing-room. And yet
the perfect restoration of the lady's health was coinci-
dent with her complete freedom from these spectral
visitations.
You will read in the Anatomie of 1\Ielancholy, that
" Eremites and anchorites have frequently such ·absurd
visions and revelations, by reason of much fasting." In
exhaustion, too, or on the approach of vertigo, if we
shut our eyes, we seem as if turning round ourselves,
and if we open them, then this whimsical movement is
referred to the chairs and tables in our chamber.
These, then, are the remote sympathies with the
organs of digestion ; and this chiefly by the derange-
ment of the circulation of the blood, between the brain
and the heart.
In the case of an enlarged heart, Dr. Kelly discovered
that a dark spectrum was perceived synchronous ·with
the systole, or contraction of its ventricles; so that the
patient could count his pulse merely by watching the
motion of this illusive shade on the white ceiling of his
room.
The study of these false perceptions, which result
from derangement or disease of the eye, are replete with
interest. You are aware that the function of a nerve of
sensation is so deranged by disease, that· in some cases
of paralysis cold bodies will appear heated. So, by ana-
WITH THE URAD:. 107
logy, is the function of a nerve of sense deranged, if its
fibrillte be disordered. ·
'Ve have Myopia, or short sight; Presbyopia, or long
sight; Chrupsia, or coloured vision. \Ve have night-
blindness, or dim vision, and day-blindness, or intole-
rance of light,-as in the albino, or owl. I had, and I
have now, a second relative, whose vision is insensible
to certain colours ; and the chemist, Dalton, we know,
could not distinguish blue from pink.
In a Glasgow ~1edical Journal, I read this statement
by a patient :-" No colour contrasts to me so forcibly
with black as azure blue, and as you know that the
shadows of all objects are composed of black, the fonns
or objects which have acquired more or less of this blue
hue, from being distant, become defined and marked by
the possession of shadows, which are mvisible to me in
the high-coloured objects in a foreground, and which
are (hus left comparatively confined and shapeless
masses of colour."
The eye may be curtailed of half its object. :Mr.
Abernethy and Dr. Wollaston were both often in this
dilemma of a sense, so that only one-half of a person or
a name~ on which they were looking, was visible to
them. ~1r. Abernethy, in his facetious way, referring
to his own name, told us he could see as far as the ne,
but could not see a bit of the thy. This illusion is at
once explained by anatomy. The optic nerve, at one
point, interlaces some, and crosses other of its fibres:
thus one nerve chiefly supplies one-half of both eyes.
Disease of nerve may thus paralyse one-half of each
retina : the other half only perceiving half the object or
word.
In many cases of disordered sensibility of the retina,
it is influenced by the minute villi or vessels in the
tunics of the eye. In the case of exhausted energy of
108 PHAXTASY FRO~l SY}IPATHY
this retina, usually accompanied by night-blindness,
where there is no vision but in a strong light, floating
specks termed muscte volitantes often become so nu-
merous, as to impart a notion of films floating in the
watery humour of the eye, or before the cornea. . It is a
curious question, in what portion of the retina the
spectra of muscte volitantes are excited. They appear in
or near the a.xis of vision ; but as they do not interrupt
the visual rays from material objects, it is possible they
may arise on that spot considered to be destitute of
vision, with regard to e:cterrwl impression. Or they
may be produced by detached parts only ofthe objects,
which impinge on the retina, reaching the brain. If the
integrity of certain of its fibres, which by converging
form the optic nerve, be destroyed, distorted or im-
perfect objects will be presented. This speck may be a
'musca volitans.
AsTR. The original impressions in all cases are, I
presume, from without : how is the internally excited
idea presented as a prominent image before the eye ?
Ev. That form of disordered vision to which_
I allude,
occurring so often in nervous persons, or resulting from
close application to study, does not often appear to de-
pend on a turgid condition of the vessels of the choroi'd
coat or retina. It is usually relieved more by tonics
than by depletion; and very strange illusions of sight
will sometimes be produced merely by depressing me-
dicines, especially the preparations of antimony. Yet
these dark specks appear to be floating before, and often
at some distance withoutside the eye. Therefore we
may believe that excited images or 1~w~·e perfect forms
may also appear before the retina, palpable. t'Between
the first impression and its recurrence, a long period
may have passed {memory being unlimited); and it is
sufficient that one sole idea be excited to produce a sue-
WI'I'll Til I~ URAl X. 10!)
cession ; as a spm·k of fire will ignite a train of gun-
powder; or as an electric spark will discharge a whole
battery.
In the curious case ofphotopsia, or suffusio :~cintillans,
we have a series of illusive spectra, in the forms of
" lucid points," and "yellow flames," and " fiery veils,"
and " rings of light." In some cases of ophthalmia, and
in acute inflammation of the brain, the candles and
other bright objects in the chamber will look like blood.
Beguclin, as we read in the " Berlin Memoirs," by
straining his eyes on a book, always saw the letters red.
There is a story in Voltaire, that the Duke of Florence
threw the dice with a field-officer of his enemy. The
spots on the dice seemed,to his excited brain, like drops
of blood: he instantly ordered a retreat of his anny.
And this is not wonderful ; it is but excited sensibility,
of which many analogies indeed may be artificially pro-
duced, as the flash of light from the pricking of the
retina with a fine needle, and the beautiful iris which is
formed by pressure on the globe of the eye. In the
very interesting history of the prisoner in the dungeon
of the Chatelet at Paris, the phosphorescence of the eye
was itself the source of light, in this instance so power-
ful as to enable the prisoner to discern the mice that
·came around him to pick up the crumbs, although the
cell was pitchy dark to others.
There are many curious illusions resulting from over-
straining or over-c.xcitemcnt of the eye.
Dr. Brewster, in the Edinburgh Journal of Science,
vol. iii. says, " If in a fine dark night we unexpectedly
obtain a glimpse of any object, either in motion or at
rest, we arc naturally anxious to ascertain what it is,
and our curiosity calls forth all our powers of vision.
Excited by a feeble illumination, the retina is not capable
of affording a permanent vision of the object; and while
we arc straining our eye to discover its nature, it will
llO PHANTASY FRO~! SYMPATII'\.
entirely disappear, and afterwards re-appear and vanish
alternately.
A friend of Buffon had been watching the progress of
an eclipse through a very minute aperture. For three
weeks after this there was a perfect spectru~ of the
lucid spot marked on every object on which he fLxed
his eyes.
Dr. Brewster had been making protracted experi-
ments on some brilliant-object, and for several hours
after this a dark spectrum, associated with intense pain,
floated constantly before his eye.
In the third volume of hi~ Physiology, Dr. Bostock
thus concludes the account of his own ocular spectra :
"It appeared as if a number of objects, principally
human faces or figures, on a small scale, were placed
before me, and gradually removed, like a succession of
medallions. They were all of the same size, and ap-
peared to be all situated at the same distance from the
face. After one had been seen for a few minutes, it be-
came fainter, and then another which was more ·vivid
seemed to be laid upon it, or substituted in its place,
which in its turn was superseded by a new appear-
ance."
Coloured vision may arise from permanent defect or
from acute disorder : from some peculiar refraction of a
ray of light on the lens of the eye, or by the optical laws
of the accidental colours.
The ray of white light consists of tbe three prismatic
or primitive colours. Now, if the eye is fatigued by
one of these colours, or it be lost, mechanically or phy-
siologically, the impression of two only will remain, and
this accidental or complementary' colour is composed of
the two remaining constituents of the white ray. Thus,
if the eye has been strained on a red colour, it is insen-
sible to this, but perceives the blue and the yellow, the
combination of which is green. So, if we look long on
6 .
WITH 'I'IIE BRAI~.
a green spot, and then fix the eye on wltite paper, the
spectrum will be of light red. A 1.nolet spot will become
yellow; a blue spot orange-red: a black spot will en-
tirely disappear on a white ground, for it has no comple-
mentary colour; but it appears white on a dark ground,
as a white spot will change to black.
By this law I may explain the impression made by
black letters on the red ground of a play-bill, which ap-
pear blue.. 1,he accidental colour of orange-red is blue;
that of black is white. By looking on this, the black
letter first becomes white, and the accidental colour of
the red-blue, is transferred to the white ground of the
letters.
AsTR. Then, as D'Agessau recommended the parlia-
ment of Paris to leave the demoniac of our times to the
physician and not the divine, you would delegate the
management of all those, to whom the mysterious world
of shadows is unfolded, to the sapient leech with his
phials and his lancet.
.Ev. Nay, I presume not to so potent a faculty.
Many of the slight imperfections of vision are, as I have
confessed, merely exaggerations of romantic ideas float-
ing in the memory; and this is not a novel notion, for
Plato and other philosophers held it long before our
time.
Muscm volitantes are usually, though not always,
substantial: i. e. depending on points or fibres in the axis
ofvision, on congestions, or varicose states ofthe vessels of
the clwro"id or retina, or of atoms floating in the humours.
These specks, which do not appear alike in the eyes of
all, and the brilliant beams in the suffusio scintillans, so
varied and so whimsical, might be readily moulded into
human form, by the imagination of' an enthusiast, or
the feelings of the ghost-seer, who is usually morose
and melancholy, in a state of longing for a ghost or a
mystery.
112 PIL\.NTASY FRO~I SY~IPATHY WITH THE BRAIX.
But when many of the more confirmed illusions are
depending on structural disease in the membranes and
humours of the eye, I am confident in the resources of
our science to relieve, if not to remove. Coleridge in-
deed has expressed his belief, that by some co~vulsion
of the eye, it may see projected before it part of its own
body, easily magnified into the whole by slight imagina-
tion. If this be true, the whole mystery of the Death-
fetch is unravelled.
The nerves and their ganglia are often diseased, when
we least suspect : and calcareous and scrofulous tu-
mours, pressing on the optic axis, in the brain, or on
the pneumogastric nerve above its recurrent branch, and
disease in the bronchial glands around the cardiac
plexus, may exist, with the very slightest sensations of
pain. Even in extreme disorganization ofthe brain, there
may be remissions of painless repose; and in other cases,
where pain is synchronous ·with illusion, the illusion may
subside although the pain remains; an indication, or
proof, indeed, of structural cause for the phantasy. And
this discrimination, Astrophel, of the line of distinction
between sanity and derangement, is often of a hair's
breadth; and the law confesses here the high value of
pathology, seeing that, in cases of suicide or of idiocy,
and other states which involve the rites of sepulture,
the conveyance of entailed estates, or personal responsi-
bility, the judgment of the physician is held to be
oracular.
MYSTERIOUS FORMS AND SIGNS.
" Fierce fiery warriors fight upon the clouds,
In ranks, and squadrons, and right form of war,
Which drizzled blood upon the capitol :
The noise of battle hurtled in the air."
.JULIUS CJESAR.
AsTR. Methinks you claim too much homage from our.
courtesy to your philosophy, Evelyn. Can we believe
that all these wondrous forms and shadows are but an
illusion of the eye, or of the mind's eye ? And, if I
grant this truth in regard to the eye of one mind, can
we so easily libel the evidence of a multitude, to whom
the world of shadows is unlocked?
\Ve are now wandering in the very land of omens ;
and will this cold philosophy of thine presume to draw
aside the veil of mystery, which hangs over the moun-
tain and the cataract of yon wild principality?
E'en now the legends of many climes crowd on my
memory; and, while this purple cloud is o'er the sun,
listen, I pr'ythee, to the traditions which I have ga-
thered; muse on the sequences of these strange ap-
pearances, and you will at length confess, with the
Benedictine Calmet-" Realite des apparitions est prou-
vee par l'evenement des choses predites."
114 :\IYSTERIOUS FORMS AXD SIGXS.
The Tan-we or Tan-wed arc streams of lucid fire,
rolling along the lands of a freeholder, who, warned of
his coming fate, immediately makes his will, and shortly
after dies.
Among the gloomy gorges of Preselle, in Pembroke-
shire, comes dancing on that blue wild-fire the "Canw·yl
y Cyrph," or "Corpse-candle." As the shades of evening
are approaching, the spectre of the doomed comes flit-
ting before us, with a lighted taper in its hand, and
with a solemn step halts not until it rests on its destined
grave, in the church-yard ground. If dignities and
fortune have been the earthly lot of this doomed mortal,
then is there shadowed forth an awful pageantry of
hearse and ghostly steeds, and mute mourners, all glid-
ing away to the place of the tomb, and, like the phan-
toms of the Aensprecker, in Holland, (a funeral proces-
sion of no less fatality,) they foretel the doom of some
ill-fated friend.
Among the dingles of the Bach·wy, in Radnorshire,
amid scenery of wild and lonely beauty, a few rugged
stones denote the site of an ancient castle of a 'Velsh
prince ; it is the ruin of the "Black Rock." The op-
posing masses of this eternal rock, tapestried with deep
green moss and lichen, fold in upon the stream directly
over its matchless cataract, which falls ab~uptly from
the upper to the lower valley into this gloomy gorge;
the sunbeam playing on the upper ledge of the water-
fall, while its deep basin is shrouded inStygian darkness.
Into this gulph it was the pleasure of the prince to hurl
from his castle walls, those whom fate had made his
prisoners. Often since the era of these cruelties, (as I
learned from the oral legends of the peasants,) before a
death, a strange unearthly groaning is heard, the" Ky-
hirraeth," becoming £'linter and fainter until the last
gasp of the mortal whose doom it forebodes.
There is the dead-bell, which the Scottish peasrmts
llYSTERIOUR FOI~:\18 AXD SIGNS. ll
believe to forctel the death of a friend ; and the death-
cart of Lancashire, which is heard rattling along the
streets like a whirlwind; and the Owkc ~1ouraske, a
demon of Nonvay, which never enters a house but some
one of the family dies within the year. We are assured
also by the Saxon, Cranmer, that ere one of the elec-
toral house of Brandenburgh dies, a woman in white
appears to many throughout the dominions of Prussia.
The wjld mountains that surround us arc prolific in
the " Anderyn y Corff," or " Corpse-bird," and the
" Cwm Amon," or " Dogs of Hell," which are believed
to be demons of death, in the shape of hounds, and,
like the mongrel of Faust, marked by a train of fire.
These howl forth their awful warning, while the death-
peal rings in the ears of the nearest kin of one about
to die.
There is the legend of the " Ellyllon," a prototype
of the Scotch and Irish " Banshie," which appears as
an old crone, with streaming hair and a coat of blue,
with her boding scream of death. The " Gwrach y
lthibyn," or " Hag of the Dribble," whose pastime is
to carry stones in her apron across the mountains, and
then to loosen her apron-string, and by the shower of
stones to make a " dribble." This hag, at twilight,
flaps her raven wing against the chamber window of a
doomed creature, and, with a howl, cries out, "A a a ui
ui Anni."
In the wilderness of Zin, which stretches between
Palestine and the Red Sea, both the Bedouin Arnb and
the traveller are greeted by the souncl of malin bells,
like the convent peal which calls the nuns to their de-
votion; and this, according to tradition, has been heard
ever since the crusades.
Then there is a fatal spirit of the desert, whicp, like
an ignis fatuus, lures men to destruction, by
" Airy tongues that syllable men's names."
I 2
1 JG liYSTERIOUS FOR:\IS A~D SIG="S•
The Venetian traveller, Marco Polo, ·writes of those
who, wandering un,varily from the track of the caravans
in Tartary, hear the phantom voice of some dear friend
(who indeed sometimes appears in person), which
entices them from the route, and they perish in the
desert.
And Lord Lindsay, in his travels through Egypt and
the defiles of Edom, tells us one circumstantial. story
from Vincent de Blanc, of a man decoyed away from
the caravan of an Arabian merchant by the entreaties
of a phantom voice.
Before an heir of Clifton of Clifton sleeps in death, a
sturgeon is always, it is affirmed, taken in the river
Trent. This incident, like many others, becomes im-
portant from its consequence.
The park of Chartley is a wild and romantic spot, in
its primitive state, untouched by the hand of the agri-
culturist, and was formerly attached to the royal forest
of Needwood, and the honour of Tutbury, of the whole
of which the ancient family Qf De Ferrars were once the
puissant lords. Their immense possessions, now forming
part of the duchy of Lancaster, were forfeited by the
attainder of Earl Ferrars, after his defeat at Burton
Bridge~ where he led the rebellious barons against
Henry III. The Chartley estate, being settled in
dower, was alone reserved, and handed down to its pre-
sent possessor. In the park is presen·ed, in its primi-
tive purity, the indigenous Staffordshire cow, small in
stature, of a sand-white colour, with black ears, muzzle,
and tips at the hoofs. In the year ofthe battle of Burton
Bridge, a black calf was born, and the downfal of the
great house of Ferrars happening at the same period,
gave rise to the tradition, which to this day has been
held in veneration by the common people, that the
birth of a party-coloured calf from the wild breed in
Chartley Park, is a sure omen of death within the same
MYSTERIOUS FOU~IS AND SIGNS. ll7
year to a member of the lord's family. A calf of this
description has been born whenever a death has hap-
pened in the family of late years. The decease of the
last earl and his countess, of his son Lord Tamworth,
of his daughter, Mrs. "\Villiam Jolliffe, as well as the
deaths of the son and heir of the present nobleman and
his daughter, Lady Frances Shirley, have each been
forewarned by the ominous birth of a spotted calf. In
the spring of a late year, an animal perfectly black was
calved by one of this weird tribe, in the park of Chart-
ley, and this birth also has been followed by the death
of the countess.
In the beautiful chapel of Rosslinne, founded by
'Villiam Saint Clair, prince of Orkney, there is a legend
of the spectral light, which illumined ~ts gothic beauty,
on the eve of a death among his descendants. And my
sweet Castaly will remember how pathetically Harold
sings the fate of Rosabelle Saint Clair.
In other districts, on the coming of such an event,
these lights are seen of various colours, and are tenned
"Dr' Eug,"-" the Death of the Druid;" and tltey also
marshal the funeral procession to the very verge of the
grave.
Dr. Caldicot solemnly writes, that when a Christia~1
is drowned in the bee, a light appears over the spot,
by which the body is easily discovered ; and hence the
river is called "Holy" Dee.
The mysteries of the "Skibbereen Lights" are re-
corded by an honourable gentleman of Ireland, and
ladies and philosophers journeyed far to behold them,
and believed.-In a cottage in a marshy flat near Bantry
lived a man named Harrington, a perfect anatomie
vivante, and bedridden,-his heart devout,-his books
all of a religious kind. In his chamber, strange ·lights
soon appeared, at first like the dim moonlight on the
wall, deepening often into yellow light, and flickering
118 .:MYSTERIOUS FORMS AND SIGNS.
round the room. There was often a group of literati
and fashion assembled there, on whom the light danced
and displayed all the various emotions of the parties.
Once at noon, but mostly at midnight, the light ap-
peared ; and on all occasions Harrington seemed to
anticipate before others beheld them. Science has
searched for causes; but neither in the arts of-an im-
postor, or the natural exhalation of luminous gases,
has been yet discovered a solution ofthis mystery.
In the wild country around Dolgelly, where Cader
Idris frowns upon the flood~ and fells of Merioneth,-
where the Mawddach, after it~ magnificent fall, rolls its
waters through the brown and purple valley to join the
W onion, and then expand into the mountain estuary of
Abermaw,-the wanderer will hear from many lips this
current story.
On a dark evening, a few winters ago, some persons
were returning to Barmouth, on the south.or opposite
side of the river. As they approached the ferry-house
at Penthryn, which is directly opposite Barmouth, they
observed a light near the house, which they conjectured
to be produced by a bonfire; and greatly puzzled they
were to discover the reason why it should have been
lighted. As they came nearer, however, it vanished;
and when they inquired at the house respecting it, they
were surprised to learn, that not only had the people
there displayed no light, but they had not even seen
one, nor could they perceive any signs of it on the
sands. On reaching Barmouth, the circumstance was
mentioned, and the fact corroborated by some of the
people there, who had also plainly and distinctly seen the
light. It was settled, therefore, by some of the old
fishermen, that this was a " death token ;" and sure
enough the man who kept the ferry at that time was
drowned at high water a few nights afterwards, on the
very spot where the light was seen. He was landing
6
)IYSTERIOUS FOlUIS AND SIOXS. i 1!)
from the boat, when he fell into the water, and so
perished.
The same winter the Barmouth people, as well as the
inhabitants of the opposite banks, were struck"by the
appearance of a number of small lights, which were
seen dancing in the air at a place called Borthwyn,
about half a mile from the town. A great number of
people came out to see these lights, and after a while
they all'· but one disappeared, and this one proceeded
slowly towards the water's edge, to a little bay where
some boats were moored. The men in a sloop which
was anchored near the spot saw the light advancing;
they saw it also hover for a few seconds over one par-
ticular boat, and then totally disappear. Two or three
days afterwards the man to whom that particular boat
belonged was drowned in the river, while he was sailing
about Barmouth harbour in that very boat.
On a lofty mountain, rising over Marbach in Austria,
stands the church of l\faria-Taferl; and miracles on mi-
racles are related of this sacred spot, since the time
when the " Vesperbild," an image of the Virgin, was
fixed on its oak. Even angels have visited the shrine.
In the 17th century these angelic visitants appeared in
processions bearing a red cross, while stars shone
around the head of·the Virgin. On one occasion a red
cross was borne along and a taper was lighted, by no
mortal hand, at the feet of the Vesperbild; and this is
recorded and attested by the crowd who gazed in won-
der on the miracle.
The trials of the two divines, John Huss and \Vick-
liffe, were marked by mvful and impressive phenomena.
\Vhile the tribunal was sitting in jurlooment on 'Vick-
liffe, the monastery in which the English monks had
assembled was nearly overwhelmed by an earthquake•
.A.nd it chanced, that while the council were in high
assembly at Constance, which condemned Huss to the
120 MYSTERIOUS FORMS AND SIGNS.
stake, the eclipse, which over that city was nearly total,
occurred, and the consternation of the people, at that
time prone to the belief of miracles, was extreme.
" The night had wan'd ; but darkness and dismay
Rose with the dawn, and blotted out the day.
The council's warder, struck with sudden fear,
Dropt from his palsied hand th' uplifted spear.
Aghast each gazer saw the mystic power,
That rob'd in midnight's.pall the matin hour ;
While hurrying feet, and wailings to and fro,
Spread the wild panic of impending woe.
The prince and prelates shud~er'd at the sign :
The monk stood dumb before the darken'd shrine:
With faltering hand uprais'd the cross on high,
To chase that dismal omen from the sky."
The wonders told me by one of my reverend an-
cestors of the " Aurora," years ago, are so circum-
stantial, and withal so prophetic, that well might she,
like the Lady of Branxholme, believe that " spirits were
riding the northern blast."
Speed repeats a record in' the" Ypodigma Neustrire"
of "Walsingham," that the rebellion of the Percies was
preceded by spectral battles in Bedfordshire, " sundry
monsters of divers colours and shapes issuing from
woods," &c.
Remember, it is a matter of history, that phantasms
were seen by numbers in \Vhitehall during the Com-
mo~wealth. And the wondrous narrative of The Ju.r;t
Devil of Woodstock, which was writ in 1649, by l\faster
Widows, the learned clerk of Woodstock, "who each
day put in writing what he heard from the mouths of
the commissioners, and such things as they told to have
befallen them the night before ; therein keeping to their
own words :"-the coney-stealers were so alarmed that
they left their ferrets beyond Rosamond's well. And
this he saith also, that "At Saint James's the Devil so
joaled the centinals against the sidt:s of the Queen's
MYSTERIOUS FORMS AND SIGNS. 121
Chappell doors, that some of them fell sick upon it, and
others, not taking warning by it, killed one outright;
and all other such dreadful things those that inhabited
the royal houses have been affrighted with."
I remember not the source from which I gleaned
some mysteries of" The Lyffe of Virgilius," a professor
of the oeeult sciences, alluded to, I believe, in Gower's
" Confessio Amantis," and identified with the Mantuan
poet,-·a magus, who "dyd many marvayles in hys lyfe
tyme by whyeherafte and nygra.lnaneye thorowgh the
helpe of the devyls of hell." One of these marvels I
well recollect. This Virgil was cut up, salted and
pickled, at his own re-quest, in a barrel; and when the
emperor discovered him, he slew Virgilius' man, and
" then sawe the emperoure and all his folke a nakyd
ehylde, three tymes rennynge aboute the barcll, sayinge
the wordes, ' Cursed be the tyme that ye cam ever
here;' and with those wordes vanyshed the chylde
away." ·
Then in the associations of Jucky days and influential
colours, is there not often a striking truth?
Sir Kenelm Digby, writes Master Aubrey, among
other wonders of his " Miscellanies," was born, fought,
and conquered at Seanderoon, and died,-on the llth
day of June.
In a book, printed in 1687, we learn that the four-
teenth of October was a lucky day for the princes of
England. On it William the Conqueror won the crown:
Edward III. landed: and James II. was born.
In the eventful life of Napoleon, the number eighteen
was associated with so many important events, that you
will scarce deny something more than casualty. Such
were, the engagement from which he assumed the con-
sulate: that of Torlina on the river Beresina: the battles
of Leipsic and of Waterloo : which were all fought on
the 18th of the month. On that day also his corpse
122 MYSTERIOUS FOR!\IS AND SIGNS.
was landed on· St. Helena: and on the 18th also the
"Belle Poule" sailed with his remains for France.
As of the Emir of the East, green was the favourite
colour of the " Daoine Shi," or men of peace, in Scot-
land ; and the Druids waved a green standard, as we read
in the Scandana, when they fought with the Fingal-
lians. From some cause, perchance from their adoption
of it, this colour was fatal to the clan " Grahame." The
Highlanders believe to this day that the field of Killi-
crankie was lost because Dundee was habited in green
uniform; and an old Grreme, ~hen his horse stumbled
at a fox-chace, referred his disa~ter to his green whip-
cord.
Do not so many sequences prove a consequence?
Ev. You do not mince the matter, Astrophel; in-
deed, from the boldness of your display, I might think
you had kissed the blarney-stone, by which charm, the
Irish believe you will ever after be free from bashful-
ness.
But coincidence, and the n'aturalleaning of the mind
to superstition, will unfold all your mysteries: and
these your illustrations (I cannot term them argu-
ments,) are even weaker than the former. Remember,
that th~ mind of some beings is impressible as the
yielding wax, and especia:IIy, if under the constant in-
fluence of other minds; which, as continual dropping
will wear away a stone, first tends to bewilder, and, at
length, to convince. And as to the specia:I trifles to
which you allude, a:Ithough it is certain a sparrow fills
not to the ground without a Providence, and the hairs
of our head are a:n numbered, I cannot believe that the
Creator will thus alter a gigantic law for an atom.
ANALYSIS AND CLASSIFICATION OF SPEC-
TRAL ILLUSION.
" The earth hath bubbles, as the water has,
And these are of them." MACBETH.
Ev. You are a most industrious gleaner among the
sheaves of history, Astrophel. But why, in all these
seeming prophecies, seek to thwart the harmonious
course of nature? Leave superstition to the heathen
and the savage : be assured, in the words of Principal
Robertson, that a vain desire of prying into futurity is
the error of the infancy of a people, and a proof of its
weakness.
From this weakness proceeded the faith of the Ame-
ricans in dreams, their observation of omens, their
attention to the chirping of birds and the cries of ani-
mals, all which they supposed to be indications of
future events. And if any one of these prognostics was
deemed unfavourable, they instantly abandoned the
pursuit of those measures on which they were most
eagerly bent.
I wonder you brought not some classic proofs of this
credulity, for such were all-prevalent in Judrea and
the Eternal City.
124 AXALYSJS AXD CLASSIFICATION
Thus, on February the thirteenth, the Romans were
conquered by the Gauls : henceforward important acts
were never undertaken on its anniversary: nor on
August the tenth by the Jews, because their first temple
was destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar, and the other by
Titus, long afterwards, on that day of the month.
I am not, however, without some curious stories of
very modem date; one anecdote may be recognised on
the Stock Exchange. A wealthy Hebrew, who was
wont to fling his gold even into the lap of kings, was
once standing on a certain s~one, at the Post Office,
when he received a letter, on which he speculated, and
lost 20,0001. On this he cautioned his friends never to
stand on that stone, lest a similar ill-fortune should
attend them.
The mind of this man was a storehouse of super-
stition-an omen was his leading star. A dro~e of pigs
would check the completion of a mighty bargain, and a
flock of sheep would prompt him to sign his name to a
million. '
The three brothers of his great house were once on
their way to Lord Liverpool, in order to the completion
of a loan to the Treasury; when, lo ! an army of swine
met them on their way. There was no more progress
to Downing Street that day; but they retired to Stam-
ford Hill, and the Lord Treasurer waited twenty-four
hours for the Hebrews' gold.
'Vith Brinsley Sheridan, Friday was a sort of holi-
day ; neither journeys were undertaken, nor new plays
allowed to be produced, on that day.
I presume you were ashamed to adduce ornitho-
scopy, or the divination by birds, as an illustration.
Do you forget the mystic influence of three crows on
man's destiny? But I will tell you an oriental fable ;
how an accomplished Jew, named :Mosollam, puzzled
an augur, by shooting a beautiful bird, .from which the
125
augur was about to prophecy on the fate of an expedi-
tion. "'Vhy," said ~1osollam, "did not the bird fore-
know the fate which awaited it? why did it not fly
away-or why~ come at all ?
AsTR. I believe the augur did or might answer, that
"a prophet may be ordained to tell the fate of nations,
but not his own."
Ev. Another vague supposition, Astrophel : there is
much yirtue in these may be's.
I have listened to your legends, and you will now
listen to me, while I presume to illustrate my own
proofs, searching for my causes in the beautiful eccen-
tricities of nature alone; and a scholar like yourself,
Astrophel, with whom I have so often chopped Oxford
logic, will grant it is a precept in philosophy not to
seek for more causes, than the explanation of the fact
requires.
On this scroll I have sketched an arrangement of
phantoms or ghosts, in two grand classes.
GHOSTS OF THE lUND'S EYE,
or
PHANTASMA.
Illusiveperception, or ocular { Conversion of natural ob-
spectra. jects into phantoms.
Illusive conception, or spec- { Creation of phantoms.
tral illusion.
Atmospheric.
Gases.
GHOSTS OF THE EYE,
or
OPTICAL ILLUSION.
{
Refraction.
Reflection.
Lenses and mirrors.
Disease of the eye.
126 ANALYSIS c\ND CLAS SIFIC ATION
In the first class there is no real or palpable object,
or, if there be, if is not what it appears ; the illusion is
but the reality of romance, depending altogether on
excited or disordered conditions of the mind : the source,
therefore, either of bright or gloomy phantoms, ~s the
mood may be.
On this scroll I have recorded those moods of mind,
which, excited by memory or association, or influenced
by such casualties as solitude, moonlight darkness, or
localities of interest, or the poring over tales of horror at
midnight, may be considered the predisposing causes of
illusion. Such are:-
Temperament...Credulity,
Enthusiasm,
Superstition,
Timidity,
Imagination,
Poetic frenzy.
Excitement. • . .Sympathy,
Exalted'joy,
Deep grief,
Love,
Hatred,
Protracted anxiety,
Delirium of fever,
Delirium of alcohol,
Delirium of narcotics,
Exhaustion,
Disease of the brain.
The second class, which are spectres or ghosts of
the eye, may be scientifically explained by the laws
which govern the material world. These are the only
substantial ghosts which I can grant to my friend.
The objects themselves exist, and are exactly as they
appear. The philosopher regards them as interesting
OF SPECTRAL ll.I.USION. 127
exceptions to general rules, from peculiar combinations
of natural causes. ,.rhe unlearned will term them pre-
ternatural phenomena, simply because they arc of un-
common occurrence. But which among the works of
divine creation is not a phenomenon ? '\Ve may think
we know a law of nature, but can we analyse it? No-
velty and magnitude astonish, but that which is familiar
excites not our surprise. \Ve gaze with delight on the
progress of an eclipse ; we watch with wonder the cc-
centri~ 'course of the comet ; but \ve look on the sun in
its meridian glory with a cold and apathetic indifference.
Yct do they all alike display Divine Omnipotence, and
the expansion of a vegetable germ, the bursting of a
flower, is as great a miracle as the overwhelming of a
deluge, the annihilation of a mighty world.
To discriminate between these classes is not difficult:
we may prove their nature by simple experiment. Opti-
cal illusions will be doubled by a straining or altering of
the axes of the eyes; and, by turning round, as they·
are removed from the axis of vision, they will disappear.
' So, indeed, will those of the second class, which arc
real objects converted into phantoms by mental excite-
ment or disorder.
But in the purely metaphysical ghost or phantom, the
change of position or locality will not essentially dispel
the illusion, (the spectrum following, as it were, the
motion of the eye ;) because it exists in the mind itself,
either as a faint or transient idea, or a mere outline,
fading perhaps in a brighter light, or as the more
permanent and confirmed impression of insanity, (un-
changed even by "brilliant glare,") or from the day-
dream of the castle-builder, to the deep and dreadful
delusion of the maniac.
Among the mute productions of nature, there are
eccentricities and rarities, which, in default of analysis
or explanation, would not fail of being referred to some
128 ANALYSIS AXD CLASSIFTCATTOX
supernatural agency: as Leo Afer, according to Burton,
accounts for the swarms of locusts once descending at
Fez, in Barbary, and at Aries, in France, in 1553. "It
could not be from natural causes ; they cannot imagine
whence they come, but from heaven. Are these and
such creatures, corn, wood, stones, worms, wool; blood,
&c. lifted up into the middle region by the sun~eams,
as Baracellus the physician disputes, and thence let fall
with showers, or there engendered? Cornelius Gemma
is of that opinion, they are there conceived by celestial
influences : others suppose they are immediately from
God, or prodigies raised by arts and illusions of spirits
which are princes of the ayre."
Over Languedoc there once burst an awful and super-
natural cloud, from which fell immense snow-flakes like
glittering stars. There is nothing strange in this, for
the shape of the snow-flake is ever that of an astero"'id.
But then there came pouring. down gigantic hail-stones,
with their glassy surface impressed with the figures of
helmets, and swords, and scutcheons. This too may
be the effect of very sudden and irregular congelation ;
but this law was not known, and therefore its result
was a mystery.
Among the wonders seen by the great traveller,
Pietro della Valla, was the bleeding cypress:-tree, which
shadows the tomb of Cyrus, in Italy. Under the hollow
of its boughs, in his day, it was lighted with lamps and
was consecrated as an oratory. To this shrine resorted
many a devout pilgrim, impressed "\\ith a holy belief in
the miracle. And what was this but the glutinous
crimson fluid, exuding from the diseased alburnum of a
tree, which the woodmen indeed term bleeding, but
which the ancient Turks affirmed, or believed, to be
converted on every Friday into drops of real blood ?
The red snow, which is not uncommon in the arctic
regions, is thus tinted by very minute cryptogamic
OF SPEC1'HAJ, ILLUSIO:\'. 129
plants; and the fairy ring is but a circle of herbage
poisoned by a fungus.
In Denbighshire (I may add) the prevalent belief is,
that the shivering of the aspen is from sympathy with
that tree in Palestine, which was hewn into the true
rross.
The simple stratification of vapours, especially during
sudden transitions of temperature, may produce very
interest~ng optical phenomena; not by refraction or re-
flection, but merely by partial obscuration of an object.
\tVe have examples of these illusive spectra in the
gigantic icebergs seen by Captain Scoresby, and other
arctic voyagers, which assumed the shape of towers, and
spires, and cathedrals, and obelisks, that were constantly
displacing each other in whimsical confusion and end-
less variety, like the figures of a kaleidoscope. Phipps
thus describes their majestic beauty: "The ice that
had parted from the main body, they had now time to
admire, as it no longer obstruct~d their course; the·
v_arious shapes in which the broken fragments appeared
were indeed very curious and amusing. One re-
markable piece described a magnificent arch, so large
and completely formed, that a sloop of considerable
burden might have sailed through it without lowering
her masts. Another represented a church, with win-
dows, pillars, and domes."
'Ve may scarcely wonder at the mystifications of na-
ture, when she assumes these gorgeous eccentricities,
as have been witnessed also in the baiTcn steppes of
the Caraccas, on the Orinoko, where the palm-groves
appear to be cut asunder ; in the Llanos, where chains
of hills appear suspended in the air, and rivers and
lakes to flow on arid sand; in the lake of the Gazelles,
seen by the Arabs and the African traveller; a~d the
lakes seen by Captain Munday, during his tour in
India.
K
130 ANALYSIS AND CLASSIFICATlO:;\;
The very clearness of the atmosphere, like that which
floats around the Rhine, renders distance especially dis-
tinct ; but mountainous regions, from the attraction of
electric clouds, afford the highest examples of atmo-
spheric beauty and effect. London and other cities,
however crowded with lofty buildings, are not d.eficient
in these aerial illusions. Even from the bridge of
Blackfriars I have seen a cumulo stratus cloud so
strangely intersect the ste.eples and the giant chimneys
of London, as distinctly to represent a sea-port, with its
vessels and distant mountains.
We have among us several minor illusions, which are
only less imposing because more familiar ; and though
often occurring, few are recorded with · scientific ac-
curacy. The phosphorescence of the marshes, the
ignis fatuus, 'Vill o'"\Visp, Jack o' the Lanthorn, or
Friar Rush, and the corpse-candles, are mere luminous
exhalations, strained into the marvellous by the vulgar,
and thus set down as heralds of mortality. The dancing
light ofluminous flies has been termed the green light of
death ; and, if you wish for more, Astrophel, read the
"Armorican l\fagazine" of John 'Vesley~ or the quaint
volume of Burton, and thereabouts where he writes in
this fashion : "The thickness of the aire may cause
such effects, or any object not well discerned in the
dark, fear and phantasie will suspect to be a ghost or
devil. Glowwormes, firedrakes, meteors, ignis fatuus,
which Plinius calls Castor and Pollux, with many such
that appear in moorish grounds, about church-yards,
moist valleys, or where battles have been fought, the
causes of which read in Goclenius, Velcurius, Finkius,
&c."
The Parhelia, or mock suns, are produced by the re-
flection of the sun's light on a frozen cloud. How
readily these phenomena are magnified you may learn
from ancient and modern records. In 1223 four suns.
13 1
were seen of crimson, inclosed in a wide circle of crystal
colour. This is natural : but then comes the miracle.
In the same year two giant dragons were seen in the
air, flapping their monstrous wings and engaging in
single combat, until they both fell into the sea and were
drowned! Then, in 1104, there were seen four white
circles rolled around the sun: and in 1688, two suns
and a reversed rainbow appeared at Bishop's Lavington,
in 'Viltshire: and in February, 1647, there is an account
and sk; tch of three suns, and an inverted rainbow,
which Baxter terms "Binorum Pareliorum <Pacvo,uevov."
And because there were two lunar and one solar eclipses
in 1652, it was called, as Lily records, " Annus tene-
brlim,'' or "the dark year."
The Corona, or halo around the sun, moon, and
stars, is easily illustrated by the zone formed by placing,
during a frost, a lighted candle in a cloud of steam or
vapour.
The Aurora Borealis is arctic electricity, and is beau-
tifully imitated by the passage of an electric flash
tlirough an exhausted glass cylinder.
The rainbow is a combination of naturalprisms break-
ing the light into colours; and it may be seen in the
cloud, or in the spray of the ocean, or in the beautiful
cascades of Schaffhausen, Niagara, or Terni, or indeed
in any foaming spray on which the meridian sunbeams
fall, or even in the dewy grass, lying, as it were, on the
ground.
When the sun shines on a cloud, there is always a
bow produced visible to all who are placed at the proper
angle. The lunar rainbow is achromatic, or destitute of
colour, because reflected light is not easily refracted into
colour. In a brilliant sunset the floods of light around
him often indicate the gradation of prismatic colouring.
CAsT. In some waterfalls I have seen the Iris fonn a
complete circle; as in the Velino at Terni, and in others,
K2
132 ANALYSIS A~D CLASSIFICATIOX
especially in Ionia and Italy. A perfect illusion is pro-
duced, for the bow seems to approach the spectator and
then recede, as if Juno were sending her messenger on
some special mission. There are many minds which
would yield with delight to this conviction, and such
probably was the illusion of Benvenuto Cellini~was it
not? " This resplendent light is to be seen over my
shadow till two o'clock in the afternoon, and it appears
to the greatest advantage.when the grass is moist with
dew. It is likewise visible in the evening at sunset.
This phenomenon I took notice of when I was at Paris,
because the air is exceedingly clear in that climate, so
that I could distinguish it there much plainer than in
Italy, where the moists are much more frequent, &c."
A consciousness of superior talent, and probably the
homage which was paid him even by the members of
the holy con!!lave, were the springs of this flattering
vision.
InA. The beauty of these must light up even the
fancy of a child, yet a holier feeling will ever inspire a
Christian philosopher, when the bow is seen in the
cloud, for it was the sign of the covenant. There is,
indeed, something in the glories of the firmament which
never fails to elevate my own thoughts, and I can rea-
dily sympathise with the Spanish religionists of the
fifteenth century, and with the North Americans, who
gaze upon the beautiful constellation of the " Southern
Cross," insulated as it is from all other stars in its own
dark space; in solemn belief that it is the great symbol-
ical banner held out by the Deity in approval of their
faith.
Ev. The " Fata Morgana," in the straits of Reggio,
presents a perfect scene of enchantment; when the
shouts of "Morgana, 1\iorgana," echo from rock and
mountain, as the wondering people flock in crowds to
the shore. During this splendid illusion, gigantic
OF SPECTRAL lLLl'SIOX. 133
columns, and cloud-capt towers, and gorgeous palaces,
and solemn temples, are floating on the verge of the
horizon, and sometimes beneath this picture of a city,
on the very bosom of the water, a fainter spectrum may
be seen, which is a reflected image of the other. These
spectra are usually colourless, but if certain watery va-
pours are floating in the air, they are beautifully fringed
with the three primitive colours of the prism. Such
also is the illusion of the Calenture, or sylvan scenes of
the ocean.
CAsT. Let us seek these wonders of the waters, As-
trophel; perchance we ~ight, in some enchanted hour,
see even beneath yon Severn flood the grotto of Sa-
brina, with its green and silver weeds, its purple shells
and arborescent corallines ; and, if we dive into the
depths of the sea, might we not light on the palace of
Amphitrite, and, while the Nereids and Tritons were
mourning over the desolation of a shipwreck, hear the .
echo of some Ariel's song "full fathom five," undulating
through the water; or realise the overwhelming of
~Iaha-Velipoor, in the curse of Kehama:
" Their golden summits in the noontide ray,
Shone o'er the dark green deep, that roll'd between ;
For domes, and pinnacles, and spires were seen
Peering above the sea."
Or the legend of Thierna N a Oge, in Lough Neagh,
in Ireland; for Moore has sung-
"On Lough Neagh's banks, when the fisherman strays,
He sees the round towers of other days ;"
and why may not we?
Who that has wandered among the dark mountains
ofBrecon, remembers not the blue pool ofLynsav~ddon,
and has not listened to the tales of the mountaineers, of
the city over which to this day its waves are rolling?
and in the beautiful vale of Eidournion, in l\1erioneth-
134 A~AJ.,YSIS AXI> CLASSIFICA'l'IOX
but listen to a frngment of a romance of this valley,
which from memory I quote :-
There was a proud and wealthy prince in Gwyneth,
when the beautiful isle was under the rule of the Cymri.
At. his palace gate a voice was once heard echoing
among the mountains these words: 'Edivar a ddau'-
Repentance will come. The prince demanded ' 'Vhen ?'
and in the rolling thunder the voice was again heard,
'At the third generation.'
Nothing daunted, the wicked lord lived on, commitr
ting plunder and all evil excesses, and laughing to scorn
the holy hymns in the churches. A son and heir was
born to him, and ~here was a gorgeous assemblage in
the hall of beautiful ladies and high-born nobles, to
celebrate the festival of his birth.
It was midnight, when in the ear of an old harper,
a shrill voice whispered, 'Edivar, Edivar ;' ~nd a little
bird hovered over him, and flew out of the palace in the
pale moonshine : and the .harper and the little bird
went together into the mountains. The bird flitted before
him in the centre of the moon's disc, and warbled its
mournful cry of 'Edivar' so plaintively, that the old
man thought of the shriek of his little child Gwenh:~vy­
var, as she sunk beneath the waters of Glaslyn.
On the top of the mountain he sank down with
weariness, and the little bird was not with him; all was
silent, save the cataract and the sheep-bells on the
mountain side. In alarm at the wild solitude around
him, he turned towards the castle, but its lordly towers
had vanished, and in the place of its woods and turrets
there was a waste of rolling waters-with his lone harp
floating on their surface.
Ev. I am unwilling to check your flight, fair Castaly,
but my illustrations are not yet exhausted.
The "Spectre of the Brocken" is a mere shadow of
the spectator on a gigantic scale. This phantom, the
135
"Schattenmann," according to vulgar tradition, haunts
the lofty range of the Hartz mountains, in Hanover.
It is usually observc!d when the sun's rays arc thrown
horizontally on thin fleecy clouds, or vapour of highly
reflective power, assuming the shape of a gigantic shade
on the cloud.
'The romantic region of the Hartz was the grand
temple of Saxon idolatry, the very hot-bed of terrible
shadows ; the first of May especially being the grand
annual rendezvous of unearthly forms. Even now, it is
affirmed, \Voden, known in Brunswick as the Hunter
of Hackelburgh, (whose sepulchre, an immense rough
stone, is shown to the "traveller,) is still influential in
the Oden \Vald and among the ruins of Rodcnstein :
even as in our own Lancashire, a dark gigantic horse-
man rushes on a giant steed in stormy nights, over
"Horrock Moor;" indeed, a spot or tomb is still shown
where he used to disappear.
'Thus are the "Spectres of the Brocken" invested
with supernatural dignity, in the minds of credulity
and ignorance. And no wonder, for, although the dis-
coverer of this gigantic illusion, Mr. Jordan, might
convince the Germans of the nature of this shadow,
how could the credulous believe, when they beheld a
secondfigure, a faint refracted spectrum of the shadow,
that it was .any other ·· than the shadow king of the
Brocken himself, frowning defiance on intruders.
And this reminds me of the confession of Gaffarel,
in his "Unheard of Curiosities" of the seventeenth
century ; in his quaint chapter on the "readynge of the
cloudes and whatever else is scene in the air, and of
hieroglyphicks in· the cloudes."
Among other miraculous illusions, as recorded by
Cardanus, "An angel once wafted on the cloudes above
Millane, and great was the consternation at its appear-
ance, until Pellicanus, a philosopher, made it plainly
136 ANALYSIS A~D CLASSIFICATION
appear, that this angel was nothing else but the reflec-
tion of an image of stone, that was on the top of the
church of Saint Godart, which wa'S represented in the
thick cloudes as in a looking-glasse."
While I was in South Wales, in 1836, I conversed
with a labourer in the Cyfarthfa works at Merthyr
Tydvil, an illiterate seer, who saw, three times appear-
ing before him, an unsubstantial tram-road; and on it
a train drawn by a horse, and in this, the dead body of
a man. Twice this shadow emerged from the earth,
and on the third ascent he looked on it, and recognized
the well-known face of a comrade. The man was horror
struck, but his friend lived to laugh at him.
When my friend, ~fr. David Taylor, ascended the
mountain that rises over Chamouni, on the opposite
side of the valley to Mont Blanc, his magnified shadow
was distinctly seen by him on the vapoury cloud that
floated between these giant rocks. .
In February 1837, two gentlemen, on whom I con-
fidently trust, were standing on Calton Hill while a
murky cloud hung over Edinburgh. Above this veil
Arthur's Seat peeped out like a rocky island beneath
two white arches, lik~ the lunar bows; and on the cloud
itself, each gentleman saw the shadow of his companion
magnified to gigantic porportions.
The aeronaut, among other glories of his ascent, may
by chance be gratified by the shadow of his balloon on
the face of a cumulus cloud; thus did the Duke of
Brunswick, who ascended "\\ri.th Mrs. Graham, in August
1836. And this is the analogous recital of Prince
Puckler ~1uskau, in his "Tutti Frutti."
"We dipped insensibly into the sea of clouds which
enveloped us like a thick veil, and through which the
sun appeared like the moon in Ossian. This illumina-
tion produced a singular effect, and continued for some
time, till the clouds separated, and w.e remained swim-
OF SPEC'rH.AJ.. ll,LlJSIO~. 137
ming about beneath the once more clear azure heavens.
Shortly after we beheld, to our great astonishmcnt, a
species of 'Fata ~Iorgana,' seated upon an immense
mountain of clouds the colossal picture of the balloon
and ourselves surrounded by myriads of variegated
rainbow tints. A full half hour the spectral reflected
picture hovered constantly by our side. Each slender
thread of the network appeared distended to the size
of a ship's cable, and we ourselves two tremendous
giants enthroned on the clouds."
The phantom, which rode side by side with Turpin,
might be a mere reflected shadow in the mist; indeed,
Burton writes that "Vitcllio hath such another instance
of a familiar acquaintance of his, that after the want
of three or four nights' sleep, as he was riding by a
river-side, saw another riding with him, and using all
such gestures as he did, but when more ligltt appeared,
it vanished."
The principles of refraction are the sources of many
an illusion, which is startling even to those who are
aware of them. The sea, the vessels floating on its sur-
face, the rocks and buildings on its shores, often appear
elevated far beyond their usual position : things are
thus presented to the eye which, in the direct course of
the rays, would be completely out of sight ; and the
praises bestowed on the Irish telescope may not have
been a bull, although we are assured that we may see
tltrouglt it round tlte corner.
Baron Humboldt, Mr. Huddart, Professor Vince,
Captain Scoresby and others, will entertain you with
these natural eccentricities, ifyou read the learned letter
of Sir David Brewster, on "Natural Magic ;" and he will
teach you how easy is the solution of all these marvels, on
the principles of atmospheric reflection. Yet how many
arc there who are not contented with the light of our
philosophy, though it may fall like a sunbeam on the
138 AXALYSIS AXD CLASSH'ICATIO;-.;
mind. Like the recorder of the " Unheard-of Curiosi-
ties," they, at one time, confess the optical illusion,
as when the Romans "saw their navy in the clouds;"
at another, as when Constantine professed to see the
"' Crosse shining most gloriously in the aire," marked
with the motto, '• In hoc signo vinces,"-philosophy
was silent, and they believed it might be divine.
But a mind in its state of nature cannot know all this.
If a savage looked on the two white horses cut on the
chalk hills of Berkshire and of vViltshire, on the white
cross of the s~""<Ons on the ~Iedlow Ridge in Bucking-
hamshire, and on the white-leaf cross near Princes Ris-
boro',-would he not deem them deities, or the work of
a magician or a devil ?
'Vhen the sailors of Lord Nelson saw the bloated
corpse of the murdered Prince Caraccioli floating erect
in the water directly towards their ship, can we wonder
they should deem it a supernatural visitation?
When Franklin set his bells a ringing, by drawing
down the electric fluid from the thunder-cloud, and
when Columbus foretold to the hour the sun's eclipse;
--can we wonder that the transatlantic Indians listened,
as to o~e endued with preternatural knowledge, or that
the other might be thought superhuman ? And when
the king of Siam was assured that water could be con-
gealed into ice, on which the sounding skate could glide,
--can we wonder that he smiled in absolute disbelief of
such a change, and called the tale a lie.
Thus, when the peasants of Cardigan, who were not
versed in Pontine architecture, looked on the bridge
which the monks ofrspitty C'en Vaen had thrown across
the torrent of the ltfonach, they could not believe it a
work of human, but of infernal, hands, and called it the
" Devil's Bridge."
On my ascent of the Vann mountain in Brecon, there
often came a mass of limestone ro~g down the preci-
01<' SPECTRAL ILLUSION. 13!)
pice. "Ah sure," said the old shepherd, who was
watching his fold on the mountain-side, " the fairies
ri.re at their gambols, master, for they sometimes do
play at bowls with these cha1k stones." Such was
his explanation; but, on my gaining another ridge of
the Brccon Beacon, I startled a whole herd of these
fairies, who scudded off as fast as their legs could carry
them, having first changed themselves into a flock of
sheep. ·
There was once a caravan journeying from Nubia to
Cairo, which met the Savans attending on the expedi-
tion of Napoleon into Egypt, among whom was Rigo.
the painter. Struck with the deep character of expres-
sion in the face of one of the Nubians, Rigo induced
him, with gold, to sit for his portrait. The African sat
calmly perusing its progress until the laying on of the
colours, when, with a cry of terror, he rushed from the
house, and, to his awe-struck companions, affirmed that
his head and half his body had been cut off by an en-·
chanter. And this impression was not solitary, for an
assemblage of the Nubians were equally terror-struck,
and (somewhat like those monomaniacs who refuse to
drink water which reflects their faces, believing that
they are swallowing their friends,) could never be dis-
possessed of the notion that the picture was formed of
the loppings and toppings of the human frame.
We believe these influences the more, because we see
that, even to some few men wiser than they, a leaning to
superstition will warp a simple fact into a wonder; and
that mere sensitiveness of mind may work as great a
fear.
Suetonius tells us that Caligula and Augustus were
the most abject cowards in a thunder-storm; and the
bishop of Langres D'Escaro fell in a fainting-fit.when-
ever an eclipse took place,-a weakness which at length
proved his death.
140 CLASSIFICATION OF SPECTRAL ILLUSIOX.
There was an old house in Angouleme, the " Chateau
du Diable," on the spot where the sable fiend was wont
to repair to enjoy his moonlight walk. The house was
never finished, for the devil, jealous of this usurpation,
like Michael Scott's spirit, destroyed every night the
walls which had been erected during the day. At
length the men abandoned their work in despair. On
the twenty-fifth night in May (1840), the ruined ·win-
dows seemed on an instant in brilliant illumination,
which struck the inhabitants of the little village of
"Petit-Rochford" with won,der and dismay. Some
dauntless heroes, however, sallied forth with weapons
to storm the enchanted castle. In an upper room,
lighted by eight blood-red wax candles, they discovered
a man of a strange and melancholy aspect, tracing
cabalistic figures on the sanded floor. He was con-
veyed to the maire, and was proved to be a. poor saw-
yer, named Favreau, who, bound by a superstitious
oath, self-administered, had thus created a sensation of
terror throughout a whole c~mmunity.
In the records of the Harleian ~fiscellany, the cu-
rious reader may discover one which might impress his
mind 'Yith some terrific ideas of the natural history of
the south of England in the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries. It is styled, "The True and Wonderful."
The portion of the ~ISS. to which I allude is the
"Legend of the Serpent of St. Leonard's Forest." This
terrific legend of my own native town was a favourite
of my boyish days; it has moulted some feather of its
once awful interest, and is now but the shadow of a
memory ; and those who were once converts to its
reality, now laugh the legend to scorn.
ILLUSIONS OF ART.
"If in Naples
1 should report this now, would they believe me 1"
Ev. The science of chemistry has unfolded most of the
secrets of material miracles, as Psychology those of the
intellect and senses.
Not that I would attempt thus to explain your won-
ders of Palingenesy, Astrophel ; I will rather favour
you with another batch, for I was once fond of unken-
nelling these sly foxes.
It is solemnly attested by the noble secretary of a
Duke of Guise, that, in company with many scientific
men, he saw the face of a person in his blood, which
had been given by a bishop, for experiment, to La
Pierr_e, the chemist, of Le Temple, near Paris.
There is an old book of one Dr. Garmann, " De
1firaculis Mortuorum," and thus lte writes :-"'Vhen
human salt, extracted and depurated from the skull of
a man, was placed in a water dish, there appeared next
morning in the mass, figures of men fixed to a cross ;"
and "when human skulls, on which mosses had vege-
tated, were pounded, the family of the apothecary who
pounded them were alarmed in the night by strange
and terrific noises from the chamber."
142 ILLUSIONS OF ART.
The body of the Cid, Ruy Diaz, as we read in Hey-
wood's " Hierarchic," sat in state at the altar of the
cathedral at Toledo for ten years. A Jew one day at-
tempted, in derision, to pull him by the beard ; but on
the first touch, the Cid started up, and in high .resent-
ment scared the Israelite away by the unsheathing of
his mighty sword. And Master Planche has br_ought
you legends from the church of Maria Taferl, in Lower
Austria, and other noted spots on the Danube.
When Bernini's bust of Charles I. was being con-
veyed in a barge on the Thames, from a strange bird
there descended a drop of blood on the bust, whiclt
could never he effaced.
This is nothing but a fact in nature mystified, and
(like the growth of the Christmas flowering thorn of
Glastonbury, from the walking-staff of Joseph of Ari-
mathrea) is too glaring to be misconstrued.
Other of these blood miracles are still more easy of
solution. The blood spots from David Rizzio are shown
to this day in Holyrood: and it was believed, that after
the Irish massacre the blood of the victims then slain
on Portnedown Bridge, has indelibly stained its bat-
tlements. But these spots are nothing but the brown
vegetative stains which geology has discovered on many
fossils.
Now listen to Father Gregory of Tours. "A thief
was committing sacrilege at the tomb of Saint Helius,
when the saint caught him by the skirt, and held him
fast." Probably his garment hitched on a nail. Another
old man, while removing a stone from the grave of a
saint, was in a moment struck blind, dumb, and deaf.
Probably the mephitic gases exhaling from the tomb
were the source of all this mystery.
Then, as to the impositions of the priesthood. In
Naples was the blood of Saint Janum·ius concealed in a
phial, and on certain solemn days this so called blood
li.J.t'SIO:\'S OF' A H.'l'.
really beca!lle liquified; but it was effected secretly, by
chemical means; and I remember, the archbishop who
confessed the secret to the French general Championet,
was exiled by the Vatican.
In the reign of Henry VIII. too (I quote from H ume),
other bloody secrets of this sort were unfolded. "At
Hales, in the county of Gloucester, there had been
shown during several ages the blood of Christ brought
from Jerusalem; and it is easy to imagine the veneration
with which such a relic was regarded. A miraculous
circumstance also attended this relic. The sacred blood
was not visible to any one in mortal sin, even when set
before him ; and, till he had performed good works suf-
ficient for his absolution, it would not deign to discover
itself to him. At the dissolution of the monastery the
whole contrivance was detected. Two of the monks,
who were let into the secret, had taken the blood of a
duck, which they renewed every week ; they put it in a
vial, one side of which consisted of thin and transparent
crystal, the other of thick and opaque. 'Vhen any rich
pilgrim arrived, they were sure to show him the dark
side of the vial till masses and offerings had expiated
his offences, and then, finding his money, or patience,
or faith, nearly exhausted, they made him happy by
turning the vial."
But there is no end to relics in Italy. Even two
hundred years ago, John Evelyn makes out this cata-
logue of those he saw in St. :Mark's, at Venice.
" Divers heads of saints, inchased in gold ; a small
ampulla, or glass, with our Saviour's blood; a great
morsel of the real cross ; one of the nails ; a thorn ; a
fragment of the column to which our Lord was bound
when scourged; a piece of St. Luke's arm ; a rib of St.
Stephen ; and a finger of Mary :N1agdalene !" .
Among the more innocent illusions of art, I may re-
mind you of concave and cylindrical mirrors and lenses,
6
144 ILLUSIO:-.IS OF ART.
the magic lanthorn,"les ombres chinoises,"an~ the phan-
tasmagoria of Cagliastro, by which daggers appear to
strike the breast of the spectator, and images of objects
in other rooms are thrown on the walls of that in which
we are sitting. A mirror, thus accidentally placed, has
afforded the evidence of murder within our own time.
The duration of impressions on the eye, is m;wther
source of illusion. An image remains on the retina, I
believe, about the eighth of a second; as it departs, if
another object supplies its place in quick succession, the
two images form, as it were, a union, and become
blended. A knowledge of this law, in the ages of
blind superstition, would have placed an overwhelming
weapon in the hand~ of priestcraft; in out day, it is the
source of rational and innocent pleasure, by the inven-
tion of optical toys.
The whisking of an ignited stick produces a fiery
circle--why? Because from excessive rapidity the rays
from one point remain impressed on the retina, until the
revolution completes the circle.
The Thaumatrope, or wonder-turner, and the Phan-
tasmascope, are ingenious illustrations of this law of
impression ; so also is the whirling machine, which so
beautifully evinces the fact of white being compounded
of all the prismatic colours, blended in certain propor-
tions. The prismatic Iris is painted on a revolving
circle; by excessive rapidity of revolution, the colours
are actually blended (as if mixed in a vessel) on the re-
tina, and the surface of the machine is white to the
eye.
To these may be added the combustion of phos-
phorus and other substances, in oxygen : red, green,
and blue lights, which change the angel face of beauty
into the visage of a demon ; and the inhalation of
noxious fumes and gases, creating altogether a new train
of phantoms in the world of experimental magic, and
I LI.USIOXS OF' ART.
developing the formerly occult mysteries of the art of
incantation.
Chance may also involve a s_
eeming mystery of very
awful import. Some years ago the town of Reading
was thus bewildered. On the loaves were seen the
most mysterious signs. On one, a skeleton's head and
cross-bones ; on another, the word " resurgam ;" on
another, a date of death was marked in deep impressions.
The loaves of course were, by some mysterious influence,
the vehicles of solemn warning from the Deity.
The. baker was churchwarden of St. Giles's; his oven
needed flooring, and, winking at the sacrilege, he stole
the flat inscribed tombstones from the church-yard, and
therewith floored his oven. From the inscriptions of
these stones the loaves took their mystic impressions.
In the reign of Edward the Martyr, during one of
the synods assembled by Dunstan, the floor of the
chamber suddenly gave way, involving the death of .
many of its members. It chanced that Dunstan had
on that day warned the king not to attend the synod,
and the only beam which did not give way was that on
which his own chair was placed. This might be co-
incidence merely, although I believe it was discovered
that it was a concerted trick; but the preservation of
the king and the priest were, of course, attributed to
special interference of the Deity.
But there is one phenomenon in animal chemistry so
rare, and indeed so wonderful, that there are few even
among philosophers who can give it credence. This is
" spontaneous combustion," the result of an evolution
of phosphorated hydrogen from the blood ; the remote
cause of which may be traced in some cases to the free
use of alcohol. The records of these cases are very
circumstantial, especially the two most remarkable-
that of the Contessa Cornelia Bandi, of Cerena; and of
Don Bertholi, an ecclesiastic of :Mount Valerius. But
L
14G ILLUSIONS OF ART.
I check my wanderings into this maze of mystery, in
pity to your patience, fair ladies ; for I perceive Astrophel
is again out of our sphere, and, enveloped in the cloud
of his own mystic meditations, will not know that this
spontaneous combustion is almost as wondrous a tale as
his " Lady of the Ashes."
ILLUSTRATION OF ~IYSTERIOUS SOUNDS.
" The isle is full of noises,
Sounds and sweet airs, that give tlelight and hurt not.
Sometimes a thousand twangling instruments
Will hum about mine ears: and sometimes voices."
T E ll P En.
Ev. So, you see, the effect of novelty is never more
powerfully displayed than by unusual impressions on
the finer senses; that appearances which the eye per-
ceives, and which the mind cannot explain, become
phantoms, involving some special motive of wonder or
dismay.
So eccentric impressions on the mechanism of the
internal ear may be equally illusive. \Ve have ghosts of
the ear as well as of the eye.
As ignorance has often warped the optical phenomena
which certain atmospheric changes may produce, so pe-
culiar 'and unusual sounds may be accounted for on
equally erroneous principles, especially if they chance
to resemble sounds which are the effects of daily or
common causes.
As the Hebrew bards hung their harps by the waters
of Babylon, the Irish were wont, during their mourning
for the death of a chief, to loosen their harp-strings, and
hang them on the trees ; and while the wind swept the
L2
1-tS ILI.USTRATIO:X OF :MYSTERIOUS SOU:XDS.
strings, they ever believed that the harp itself sympa-
thized in their sorrow.
Thus, when the lament, or" ullaloo," of these wild
J\filesians boomed along the mountain glens, mingled
with the coione, or funeral song, and the poetical ca-
dence blended with the winds, how easy to impart to it
a more than human source; and thus the dismal coronach
among the Scottish Highlands may be mystified into
the "boding scream of the Banshee."
It is a classical question whether the rebel giant,
Typhreus, was crushed by Jupiter beneath the island of
lnarime, or l\1ount iEtna; but it might readily be be-
lieved by the Sicilian, who had read this mythological
tale, that the volcanic convulsions arose from the vain
struggles for freedom of this monster, who sent forth
flames from his mouth and eyes.
'Vithin a mountain of Stony Arabia, to t!Ie north of
Tor, very strange noises are often heard as of the striking
of an harmonic hammer, or the sound of a humming-
top, which completely infuriate the camels on the
mountain when they hear it. The Arabs believe these
sounds to proceed from a subterranean convent of
monks, the priest of whicli, to assemble them to prayer,
strikes with a hammer on the nakous, a metallic rod
suspended in the air. M. Teetzen, who· visited the
spot, assures us that the cause of all this is the mere
rolling of volumes of sand from the summit and sides of
the mountain.
In the last century, I remember there was a legend
current in the west of England, of the "Bucca," a
demon whose howling was heard amid the blast which
swept along the shore. It was a sure foreboding of
shipwreck. The prophecy was often but too fully veri-
fied, but the voice of the demon was merely the premo-
nitory gale from one certain quarter, which is always
the avant-courier of a tempest.
ILLUSTRA'flOX OF !\lYSTEiliOt:S SOl'XDS. 14!)
I remember, when I was a child, the prevalent belief
in Horsham, that, at a certain hour of the night, the
ghost of ~1rs. Hamel was heard groaning in her vault,
beneath the great eastern window, and it required some
self-possession to walk, at midnight, around this haunted
tomb ; for few would believe that the noises were nothing
more than the wind sweeping along the vaulted aisles of
the church.
Those very extraordinary impositions on the sense of
hearing at 'Voodstock, in the truth of which, Astrophel,
your faith was so firm, were resorted to to create terror,
and effect a political purpose. In "the genuine History
of the good Devil of 'Voodstock," written in 1649, we
are told ofthe pealing ofcannon, the barking ofdogs, and
neighing of horses, and other mysterious sounds, which
certainly created the greatest wonder and anxiety, until
" funny Joe Collins" explained and demonstrated all the
mechanical process of this imposture. You will find
also the account of these gems of marvellous history in
Sinclair and Plott, and the chronicles of those days,
which eclipse the haunted house of Athenodorus in
Pliny.'
In the 16th century, l\1aster Samuel Stryck discussed
the whole question regarding these haunted houses, and
warnings of ghosts, and belief in the reality of appari-
tions, in his work published at Francofurt, "De Jure
Spectrorum," and thus he runs up the question of
damages : " If the house be haunted, the tenant might
bring in a set-off against his rent, thus-' Deduct
for spectres in bed and bed-room, and elsewhere,
5l. lOs.'"
The drama of the Drummer, by Addison, I believe
was founded on the mystery of the "Demon of Ted-
worth," which beat the drum in the house of ~fr•.~Iom­
pesson. This also was the source of extreme wonder,
until the drummer was tried, and convicted, and ~Ir.
150 ILLGSTR.ATION OF l\IYSTERIOUS SOUNDS.
Mompesson confessed that the mystery was the effect
of contrivance.
The author of the Pandemonium, or Devils' Cloyster,
garnished his book with tales of this nature. In 1667,
when he slept in "my Lady chamber," in the house of
a nobleman, he was waited on by a succession of spectral
visitors; the explanation of which Ferriar and Hibbert,
and others, have wrought for you, if you deign to tum
over the leaves of their natural philosophy.
The impostures of the Stockwell miracles of 1772
are recorded, with other curiosities, in the "Every-day
Book'' of Hone, the skilful and unwearied collector of
our ancient mysteries.
The Cock-lane ghost is another instance of illusion
in the ears of the credulous. Although Dr. Johnson,
the Bishop of Salisbury, and other learned Thebans,
sat in solemn judgment to develope its mystery, I be-
lieve many were so in love with the marv~llous, that
they regretted the unravelli.ng of the plot, and still be-
lieved ; as Commodore Trunnion, in despite of evidence
as to the fluttering in his chimney, swore that he knew
a devil from a jackdaw, as well as any man in the
kingdo.m.
AsTR. I wonder, Evelyn, at your veneration for the
classics ; for are they not replete with stories, which, if
true, (and I believe them so,) will undermine all your
philosophy? 'Vhen Pausanias writes of the ghosts at
1\farathon, of horses and men who were heard rushing
on to battle four hundred years after they were slain;
and Plutarch of the spectres and supemat~ sounds
in the baths at Chreronea, the scene of bloodshed and
murder ;-what may be their motives, but the record of
acknowledged incidents?
Ev. The classics, if they might rise up and listen,
would believe me, dear Astrophel, so clear and simple is
the source of these illusions.
IJ~LUSTH.A'I'IOX OF ~~YSTEitiOU S SOIJXDS. 15 1
Of the credulity of the Uomans I have spoken; but
even in minds not prone to superstition, deep mental
impression, or constant dwelling on a subject of inte-
rest, will effect this illusion of a sense.
In Holy Island, near the ruins of the convent (in the
dungeons of which romance has decided the fate of
Constance Beverley), was a small fortress of invalid
soldiers. One of them once conducted a visitor to a
steep r~ck, under which, he said, there must be a pro-
found cavern, as the sound of a bell was distinctly heard
every night at twelve o'clock, deep in the bowels of the
earth. The traveller soon discovered that the myste-
rious sound had never been heard by the oldest inmates,
until the poem of "Marmion" appeared, in which the
condemnation and the death of Constance in the dun-
geons of the cathedral are so forcibly described. This
is, however, a metaphysical source of mystery.
In volcanic regions, as in that of the Solfatara, ncar
Naples, these· strange and subterranean sounds are not
unfrcquently heard ; and in the rocky and caverned
~oasts of our own island also, where dwell the unlet-
tered and the superstitious, by whose wild and roman-
tic fancy these noises are readily magnified into the
supernatural.
Camden, in his·" Britannia," infonns us,-" In a rock
in the island of Barry, in GJamorganshire, there is a
narrow chink, or cleft, to which if you put your ear you
shall perceive all such sorts of noises as you may fancy
smiths at work under ground, strokes of hammers,
blowing of bellows, grinding of tools." At 'Varm's
Head, in the peninsula of Gower in Glamorganshire,
these sounds are, even now, often heard ; and it requires
but a moderate stretch of imagination to create all this
cyclopean imagery, when the sea is rolling in .cavities
under our feet, and the tone of its voice is magnified by
confinement and repercussion. From some such source
152 ILLUSTRATION OF 1\IYSTERIOUS SOUNDS.
probably sprung the fable of" tlie Syrens," two solitary
maidens, who, by their dulcet voices, so enchanted the
navigators who sailed by their rocks, that they forgot
home and the purpose of their voyage, and died of
starvation. Ulysses, instructed by his mother. Circe,
broke the spell, and the ladies threw themselves into
the sea with vexation. This fable, like many of the
classic mysteries, may be thus topographically ex-
plained.
In the grand duchy of Baden, near Friburg, is a very
curious example of an LEolian lyre, constructed, as the
traditions of the mountains "rill h~ve it, by the very
genius loci himself.
In a romantic chasm of these mountains, most melo-
dious sounds are sometimes heard from the top of fir-
trees overhanging a waterfall. The current of air,
ascending and descending through the chasm, receives
a counter impulse from an abrupt angle of the rock,
and, acting on the tops' of the string-like branches of
the trees, produces the soft tones of the JEolian harp,
the effect of which is much enhanced by the gushing
of the waterfall.
There may be in these natural sounds the source of
many fables of the ancients : the moaning of the wind
among the branches of a pine-grove might be the wail-
ing of a hamadryad.
Among the granite rocks on the Orinoco, Baron
Humboldt heard the strangest subterranean sounds ;
and at the palace of Carnac, some of Napoleon's savans
heard noises exactly resembling the breaking of a string.
It is curious that Pausanias applies exactly this expres-
sion to the sounds of the l\femnonian granite,-the
colossal head of Memnon, which was believed to speak
at sunrise. He writes,-" It emits sounds every morn-
ing at sunrise, which can be compared only to that of
the breaking of the string of a lyre."
ll.LUSTRATION OF M)"STERIOl'S SOl'XDS. 153
Juvenal has the same notion, but he has multiplied
the sounds.
The mystery of ~femnon may be readily explained,
by the temperature and density of the external air dif-
fering from that within the crevices, and the effort of
the current to promote an equilibrium; yet these simple
sounds were in course of time warped into articulate
syllables, and at length obtained the dignity of an ora-
cular voice. And in these illustrations, fair Castaly,
you have the clue to all the mysteries of demonia and
fairyland.
To these natural illusions, let me add the triumphs
of phonic mechanism and the peculiar faculty of the
ventriloquist, the secrets of which the science of Sir
David Brewster has so clearly developed. The won-
drous heads of ~femnon, and Orpheus, and JEsculapius,
the machines of .Albertus ~fagnus, and Sylvester, are
now held but as curious specimens of art, and are
indeed eclipsed by the speaking toys of Kratzenstein,-
and Kempelin, and 'Villis, and Savart, and the inge-
~ious instruments of "\Vheatstone.
Of ventriloquism, it is not my purpose to speak ; but
there is a wonder of our time in the person of young
Richmond, which, with many distinguished physiolo-
gists, I examined at the cont•ersazione of Dr. E-, in
C- Street.
'Vhen Richmond sat himself to perform, we heard a
subdued murmur in his throat for about half-a-minute,
\vhen suddenly a sound issued of the most exquisite
and perfect melody, closely resembling, but exceeding
in delicacy, the finest musical box. The mouth was
widely open, and the pe1formance was one of considera-
ble effort. The sounds were a mystery to us at the
time, for they were perfectly unique, and are yet not
satisfactmily explained. It is decided, however., by
some, that the upper opening of the windpipe may be
154 ILLUSTRATIO~ 01<' MYSTERIOUS SOUNDS.
considered as a ·Jew's-harp, or ·lEolina, of very exqui-
site power, behind the cavity of the mouth, instead of
being placed between the teeth.
AsTR. And thus concludes our lecture on special
mechanics.
Ev. I professed no more, Astrophel: It may be the
privilege of the sacred poet to soar beyond the confines
of our own planetary system :
" Into the heav'n of heav'ns he has presum'd,
An earthly guest, and drawn emp~Teal air."
But the study of philosophy is nature and nature's
known laws. If we lean, for one moment, to the credence
of a modern miracle, there is an end to our philosophy.
Revealed truth, and the immaterial nature of the mys-
tical essence within us, we may not lightly discourse on.
The sacred histories of Holy Writ, and the miracles
recorded in its pages-the hand-writing in 'the hall of
Belshazzar, the budding of .{\..aron's rod, the standing
still of the sun upon Gibeon, and, above all, the mira-
cles of the Redeemer, are of too holy a nature to be
submitted to the test of philosophical speculation: they
rest o~ the conviction of conscience and the heart; a
proof far more sublime than may ever be elicited by the
ingenuity of man, or the workings of his sovereign
reason.
ll"'AIRY ~IYTHOLOGY.
I'll give thee faries to attend on thee."
MIDSUMMER NIGIIT'I! DREAllfo
AsTn. "Vhy so thoughtful, fair Castaly? I fear Eve-
lyn has clipped your sylphid wings, and made a mortal
of you.
CAsT. Your finger on your lips, Astrophel; for the.
world, not a syllable of confession to Evelyn.
· I could think I heard the murmurs of a host of fairies
streaming up to earth from elf-land, in fear of libels on
their own imperial sovereignty by this matter-of-fact
scholar.
AsTR. Why did we listen to his philosophy? why
not still believe the volumes of our antique legends ;
that those which tell the influence of fairies and demons
on man's life, have their source in the real history of a
little world of creatures more ethereal than ourselves?
Perhaps even the bright thoughts of a poet's fancy are
not his own creation.
CAsT. We must hear no more, although Evelyn will
still convert syrens into rocks and trees, and make a
monster out of a mist or a thunder-cloud. The sun-
light is sleeping on Wyndcliff, and the breeze, creeping
among the leaves, seems to me a symphony meet to
conjure the phantoms of romantic creatures. Evelyn
156 FAIRY liYTHOLOGY.
is far away among the rocks; let us steal the moment
to revel in our dreams of faery. Even now, are we not
in a realm of Peristan ? Yon mossy carpet of emerald
velvet, strewed with pearls and gold, may be the pre-
sence-chamber of Titania; and fays are dancing within
their ring, which the silvery beech o'ercanopies so sha-
dily; and the chaunting of their viralays, or green-songs,
comes like the humming of a zephyr's wing flitting o'er
the mouth of a lily. Ariel is lying asleep in her cinque-
spotted cowslip bell, and the fays are feeding on their
fairy-bread, made of the pollen of the jasmine ; and
Oberon quaffs to his queen the drops that hang on the
purple lip of the violet, or glitter in the honied bell of
the hyacinth, or that purest crystal of the lotus, that
brings life to the fainting Indian in the desert, or the
liquid treasure of the nepenthe.
We pray you, Astrophel, recount to us, now we are
in the humour, the infancy of bright and dark spirits;
for you have dipped deep, I know, into the Samothra-
cian mysteries. '
AsTR. Know, then, that the birth-time of mythology
and romance was in the pri~eval ages of man. The
ancient heathen·s believed in the legends of their deities,
as we have credence in modern history and biography;
indeed, the romance of the moderns was with the an-
cients truth. They had implicit faith in the presence
of their gods, and that they might perchance meet them
in the groves and hills, which were consecrated to their
worship, and adorned with sculpture and idols in honour
of the deities. Hence the profusion of their names and
nature, recorded in the pages of the olden time, when
the scribe traced his reed letter on the papyrus.
From the climes of the sun came the orient tales of
genie, and deeves, and peris; and of naiad, and nereid,
and dryad, and hamadryad, from Greece and Rome.
In the Koran shone forth the promised houris of ~fa-
I<'AIUY ~fYTIIOI..OGY. 157
hornet's paradise ; and its mysteries were echoed to us
from the lips and tables of pilgrims and crusaders, who
had blazoned their red cross in the holy wars. Thus
was romance cradled and bosomed in religion.
From the legends of the East, spring the fairy ro-
mances of our own days. The Peri of Persia was the
denizen of Peristan, as the Ginn of Arabia was of Gin-
nistan, and the Fairy, of England of Fairyland; and we
have their synonyms in the Fata of Italy and the Duerga
of northern Europe.
These spirits of romance are almost innumerable;
for thus saith the "Golden Legend:" that l' the air is
full of sprites as the sonriebeams ben full of small motes,
which is small dust or poudre."
The alchemyst Paracelsus asserts that the clements
were peopled with life; the air with sylplts and syllJains,
the water with ondines, the earth with gnomes, and the fire
with salamanders. And :Martin Luther coincides with
these assertions; nay, hath not l\fastcr Cross of Bristol·
illustrated the creed, and shown, by his galvanic power,
an animated atom starting forth, as if by magic, from a
flint, a seeming inorganic mass?
The sagas, or historical records of Scandinavia, of the
Celtic, Scaldic, and Runic mythology, assert that the
duergas or dwarfs, which are the Runic fairies, sprang
from the worms in the body of the giant Ymor, slain,
according to the Edda, by Odin and his brother ; and
Spenser has left a very interesting genealogical record of
the faery brood, in that romantic allegory of the Eliza-
bethan age, the "Faery Queen." Elf, the man fashioned
and inspired by Prometheus, 'vas wandering over the
earth alone, and in the bosky groves of Adonis he dis-
covered a lady of marvellous beauty-Fay. From this
romantic pair sprang the mighty race of the fairi~s, and
we have ~vondrous tales of the prowess of their heroic
princes. Elfiline threw a golden wall round the city of
158 FAIRY ~JYTHOLOGY.
Cleopolis ; Elfine conquered the Gobbelines ; Elfant
built Panthea, of purest crystal; Elfan slew the giant
twins ; and Elfinor spanned the sea with a bridge of
glass.
CAsT. Spenser, I presume, borrowed his romance
from Italy. \'Ve read that the rage and party spirit of
the potent Guelphs and Ghibellines rankled even in
their nurseries. The nurses were wont to frighten the
children into obedience with these hated names, which,
corrupted to the epithets of elf and goblin, were hence-·
forth applied to fairies and phantoms.
AsTR. This story is itself.a mere fiction. Ere the
period of these feuds of party, the term Elfen (and
Dance identifies this with the Teutonic Helfen,) was a
common epithet of the Saxon spirits: \Veld·elfen were
their dryads; Zeld-elfen their field-fairies, &c.
The American Indians to this day have faith in the
presidencies of spirits over those lakes, trees, and moun-
tains, and even fishes, birds, and beasts, which excel
in magnitude. The orient' Indian, too, at this hour,
peoples the forests with his gods; and peacocks, and
squirrels, and other wild creatures, are thus profanely
deified.
The .legends of later days have quaintly blended the
classic with the fairy mythology. Hassenet tells us
that ~fercurius was called. the Prince of Fairies; and
Chaucer sings of Pluto, the King of Fayrie ; and, in
the romance of the Nine Champions, Proserpine sits
crowned among the fairies. The great zoologist, Pliny,
'ITites in his Natural History, that " you often en-
counter fairies that vanish away like phantasies." And
Baxter believed that "fairies and goblins might be as
common in the air, as fishes in the sea."
As the Peri could not enter Paradise in consequence
of the errors of her "recreant race," so the eives could
not enjoy eternity without marrying a Christian ; and
I<' AJR\' :'.IY'I'IIOLOGY. 159
on this plea they came up to the daughtcrR of men.
And we read, in the tenets of the Cabala, that, by these
earthly weddings, they could enjoy the privileges and
happiness of each other's nature. But these unnatural
unions were not always happy. There is, in our old
chronicles, a tradition of a marriage between one of the
counts of Anjou and a fhir demonia, which entailed
misery and commission of crime on the noble house of
:Plantagenet.
Now there are appointed times when the influence of
the spirit fades for a season. It was the moment of the
eclipse, among the American Indians and the African
blacks; in Ireland, it is the feast of the Beltanc; in
Scotland, this immunity came over the mortal life on
Hogmany, or New-year's Eve, and during the general
assemblies of these mystic spirits of the world.
In Britain, it was on the eve of the first of May, the
second of November, and on All Souls' Day. At these
times, indeed, they might be induced to divulge the
secrets of their mysterious freemasonry.
In Germany, on May-day, when the unearthly ren-
dezvous was on the dark mountain of the Hartz, and
on Halloween, in Caledonia, even the secrets of time
and futurity were unfolded by the spirits to a mortal,
if one were found so bold as to repair on these festivals
to their unhallowed haunts.
If a mortal enters tl).e secret abodes of the Daoinc
Shi, in Scotland, and anoints his eyes with their
charmed ointment, the gift of seeing that which is to
all others invisible is imparted; but this must be kept
secret, for the Men of Peace will blind the second-
sighted eye, if once they are recognized on earth by a
mortal.
In the gloomy forests of Germany rose the legends
of Kobolds, and Umbriels, and 1Vehrwolves, the llolts
Konig, the TValdehach, the Reiherzahl, and the Scltatli>n-
6
160 FAIRY :\IYTHOLOGY.
man, the Hudekin, the Erl Konig, and the beautiful
naiad, the Nixa. The devil himself vms believed to be
a gnome king; for when the Elector of Saxony offered
l\1artin Luther the profit of a mine, he refused it, " lest
by accepting it he should tempt the devil, who .is lord
of those subterraneous treasures, to tempt him."
Then we have the Putseet, or Puck of the Samogitre,
on the Baltic; the Biergen Trold, or Skow, of Iceland;
and those mennaids which gambol around the Feroe
Islands. 'Ve read in the Danske Folksaga, that these
"merrows" cast their skins lik~ the boa, and in that con-
dition are changed into human beings, till their scales
are restored to them. And the Shetlanders implicitly
believe that awful storms instantly arise on the murder
of one of these sea-maids.
There was the Norse goddess, Freya, which, like the
Dragon of 1Vantley, and the Caliban of the " still vexed
Bermoothes," blasted the fair face of nature, and far
eclipsed the giant-serpent off Cape Saint Anne, or the
kraken of Norway; and even' that monstrous sea-snake,
the jormungandz (so conspicuous among the wild ro-
mances of the Edda), whose coils .entwined the globe.
Thor angled for this snake with a hull's head, but it
was not. to be caught,.being reserved for some splendid
achievement in the grand conflict which is to· herald the
Ragnarockr,-the twilight of the gods.
Among the mountains of our own island we have a
profuse legion. In 1Vales, the Tylwtlt Tag and the
Pooka; and many a hollow in the mountain where
these strange animals resort, is called Cwm Pooka ; and
the wondrous cavern of the 1'Ielte, in Breconshire, 1vas
believed to be haunted by this little pony.
In Ireland, they have a J.lferrow, the Runic sea, or
oigh-maid; the Banshee, or fairy prophet; the Fear-
Dearg, the. Irish Puck ; the Clurricane, a sottish
pigmy; and the Pooke, the wild pony•.
!<'AIRY liYTilOI.OGY. JGI
CAsT. These must have been a prolific n."i well as a
wandering brood, for I also have seen many caverns in
the rocky districts, called Poola Phouka, in which these
mischievous little creatures concealed themselves.
AsTR. In l\fan there is a hill called the " Fairy Hill,"
a tumulus of the Danes, which is thought to be a noc-
turnal revel-place for the l\1an fairies which preside over
their fisheries.
Scotland was a fertile mother of monsters: the Ou-
risks or Uriskin, the goblin-satyrs or shaggy men ; the
Brownies; the Kelpies, or river-demons; the Bargheists;
the Red-cap; the Daoine Shi, or Men of Peace; the
Glaslic, or noontide hag; which haunted the district of
Knoidart; and the Lham-Dearg, or red-hand, in the
forests of Glenmore, and Rothiemurchus; the Bodach-
Glas; and the Pixies, or small grey men.
CAsT. There is an islet among the Scottish Hebrides,
which is called the Isle of Pigmies; and I remember a
chapel there, in which very minute human bones were
some time ago discovered. Think you, Astrophel, that
these were the skeletons of pixies ?
AsTR. I cannot think the notion irrational ; there
are dwarfs and giants even in our days. The Bosgis-men
of the Cape, and the Patagonians of South America,
prove the existence of beings of another stature; and
perchance of another nature, in days long agone. The
Laplander and Bushman of the Cape are little more
than three feet high; and that there were giants too, is
proved by the fossil bones which have been found in the
strata of our earth.
CAsT. Then we have really dwindled in our growth,
and Adam was really a hundred and twenty-three feet
nine inches high, and Eve a hundred and eighteen feet
nine inches and three quarters, as we are solemnly in-
formed by our profane chronicles? Nay, even the story
may be true of the Pict, who bit off the end of the
ll
1G2 FAIRY :\IYTHOLOGY.
mattock, with which some slave ·of science was opening
his coffin, and thundered forth this exclamation: " I
see the degeneracy of your race by the smallness of
your little finger."
InA. If Evelyn were here, he would ask why we have
no skeletons of giants as of lizards in our secondary
rocks; and he would tell this learned Theban, Castaly,
that Cuvier decided these fossils, which seemed to be
the debris of a giant race,. to be the bones of elephants.
The legends of Athenreus are probably a fable, and the
fossils of the pigmies were, I dare say, the petrified
skeletons of" span-long, wee unchristen'd bairns."
Your allusion to the brownies, reminds me of the
monstrous errors which have crept into our legends
from the mingling of two stories, or the warping of
plain facts in natural history. And indeed I interrupt
you to recount, in proof of this, some fragments from
" Surtees' Durham." ·
"Every castle, tower, or manor-house has its visionary
inhabitants. 'The Cauld Lad of Hilton' belongs to a
very common and numerous class, the brO'\\'"llie or do-
mestic spirit, and seems to have possessed no very dis-
tinctiv~ attributes. He was seldom seen, but was heard
nightly by the servants. who slept in the great hall. If
the kitchen had been left in perfect order, they heard
him amusing himself by breaking plates and dishes,
hurling the pewter in all directions, and throwing every
thing into confusion. If, on the contrary, the apart-
ment had been left in disarray, (a practice which the ser-
vants found it most prudent to adopt,) the indefatigable
goblin arranged every thing with the greatest precision.
This poor esprit folet, whose pranks were at all times
perfectly harmless, was at length banished from his
haunts by the usual expedient of presenting him with a
suit of clothes. A green cloak and hood were laid be-
fore the kitchen fire, and the domestics sat up watching
PAJRY ~IY1'IIOLOOY. 103
at a pn1dent distance. At twelve o'clock the spirit glided
gently in, stood by the glowing embers, and surveyed
the garments provided f(,r him very attentively, tried
them on, and seemed delighted with his appearance,
frisking about for some time., and cutting several sum-
mersets and gambados, till on hearing the first cock, he
twitched his mantle tight about him and disappeared
with the usual valediction :
."' Here's a cloak, and here's a hood,
Tbe cauld lad of Hilton will do no more good.'"
The genuine Brownie, however, is supposed to be,
ah origine, an unembodied spirit; but the boy of Hilton
has, with an admixture of English superstition, been
identified with the apparition ofan unfortunate domestic,
whom one of the old chiefs of Hilton slew at some very
distant period, in a moment of wrath or intemperance.
The baron had, it seems, on an important occasion,
ordered his horse, which was not brought out so soon
as he expected. He went to the stable, found the boy
loitering, and seizing a hay-fork, struck him, though
not intentionally, a mortal blow. The story adds, that
he covered his victim with straw till night, and then
threw him into a pond, where the skeleton of a boy was
(in confirmation of the tale) discovered in the last
baron's time.
I am by no means clear that the story may not have
its foundation in the fact recorded in the following in-
quest:
" Coram J ohannem King, coron., vVardre de Chestrre,
apud Hilton, 3 Jul. 7 Jac. 1609."
(And here follows a report in Latin.)
Nevertheless, I strongly suspect that the unhousel'd
spirit of Roger Skelton, whom in the hay-field the good
Hilton ghosted, took the liberty of playing a few of
those pranks which are said by writers of grave authority
M2
164 FAIRY MYTHOLOGY.
to be the peculiar privilege of those spirits only who are
shouldered untimely by violence from their mortal
tenements.
"Ling'ring in anguish o'er his mangled clay,
The melancholy shadow tnrn'd away,
And follow'd through the twilight grey."
A free pardon for the above manslaughter appears on
the rolls of Bishop James;dated 6th September, 1609."
I will only add that, among the Harleian MSS., the
same legend is told with som~ variations, in which this
" cauld lad'' is termed the "Pale Boy of Hilton."
This confusion of our mythology is as conclusive of
the fiction of ill the mysterious legends of the modems,
as the jumble which the classic poets have made of their
monsters. If we read Lempriere, t~e genealogy of the
classic monster is involved in a maze of impious con-
fusion ; and the mythology of Chimera, and Echidna,
and Typhon, Geryon, and Cerberus, and the Hydra and
Bellerophon, and Ortha and the Sphyn:c, and the Nemtean
Lion, and the Minotaur, and the demoniac records of
their origin, it is almost profanation even to reflect on.
But. when Martianus Capella tells us that devils
have aerial bodies, that they live and die, and yet,
if cut asunder, soon re-unite ; and ·when ·Bodine as-
serts, in his "Solution of Natural Theology," that
spirits and angels are globular, as being of the most
perfect shape, I confess I feel more disposed to smile at
their imposture than to frown, were it not for their
utter worthlessness.
Yet all the allegories which adorn our legends are
not so remote from truth or nature. The vampires are
said to have gloated over the sacrifices of human life,
while the gouls and afrits, the hyenas in human shape,
not only fed on dead carcases, but, by a special trans-
migration, took possession of a corps~. On this fable is
FAIRY MYTHOLOGY. 165
founded the monstrous legend of "Assuet and Ajut."
I confess it monstrous; but indeed there is little ex-
aggeration even in these tales of horror, if we may
believe, for once, Master Edmund Spenser, in that part
of his record of the rebellion of Desmond, in Ireland,
which treats of the Munster massacre:-" Out of every
corner of the woodes and glennes, they came creeping
forth upon their handes, for their legges could not bear
them; they looked like anatomies of death; they spake
like ghostes, crying out of their graves: they eat the
dead earrions-happy were they could they find them-
yea, and one another soon after, insomuch as the very
earcases they spared not to serape out of their graves."
That episode also, in the "Inferno" of Dante, in which
Count Ugolino wears out days and nights in gnawing
the skull of an enemy, may well seem a fiction; but
even this hellish repast is but a prototype of the savage
rage for scalping and cannibalism among the Indian
hordes of America.
DE1\10NOLOGY.
" Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape-"
H.UdLET.
AsTR. Now from the holy records, from the creed of
the l\1agus Zoroaster, from the Greek, and R9man, and
other legends, how clear is the influence of ethereal
beings, of angels and demon,s, on man's life ; and of the
imparted power of exorcism ! In allusion to this divine
gift to Solomon, Josephus has the following story:-
" God also enabled him to learn that skill which expels
demons, which is a science useful and sanative to men.
And this method is of great force unto this day, for I
have seen a certain man of my own country, whose
name was Eleazer, releasing people that were demoniacal
in the presence of Vespasian, and his sons, and his cap-
tains, and the whole multitude of his soldiers. The
manner of the cure was this. He put a ring, that had a
root of one of those sorts mentioned by Solomon, to the
nostrils of the demoniac, after which he drew out the
demon through his nostrils ; and when the man fell
down immediately, he adjured him to return into him
no more, making still mention of Solomon, and reciting
the incantations which he composed. And when Elea-
zer would persuade and demonstrate to the spectators
DEMONOLOGY. 167
that he had such a power, he set a little way otr a cup
or bason full of water, and commanded the demon, as
lie went out of the man, to overturn it, and thereby to
let the spectators know that he had left the man."
The gods of the Greeks and the Latins, the lares
and lemures, or hearth-spirits, the pagan and the Chris-
tian elves, were ever held as delegated agents of the
Deity, who worked, not by a fiat, but by an instrument.
Such were the Cemies of the American islanders, and
the Kitchi and Matclti !1-fanitou of the Indians; and, if
we consult Father Borri, we shall learn that in Cochin
China Lucifer himself promenaded the streets in human
shape. ,
Psellus records six kinds of devils; and the arrange-
ments of Agrippa, and other theologians, enumerate
nine sorts of evil spirits, as you may read in one of old
Burton's eccentric chapters.
The mythology of the Baghvat Geeta, the sacred re-
cord of the Hindoo theists, is based on the notion of
good and evil spirits, the emblems of virtue and of vice
under the will and power of Brahma. Indeed, the
Hindoo' mythology is but that of the classic in other
words. Agnee, the:god· of fire, Varoon, the god of the
ocean, Vayoo, the god of the wind, and Cama, the god
of love, are but other names for Jupiter, and Neptune,
and CEolus, and Cupid.
The creed of Zoroaster asserts a perpetual conflict
between the good a11d evil deity, the types of religious
knowledge and ignorance. The southern Asiatics arc
people of good principle, and the northern nations peo-
ple of evil principle. And why may not the Persian
thus coincide with Bacon himself, who in his book " De
Dignitate," confesses his belief in good and bad spirits,
in charms, and prophecies, and the varieties of natural
magic. Or is it inconsistent that the Hindoos should
incarnate the malignant disease, small pox, in the pcr-
6
168 DEllO~OLOGY.
son of the deity JJfah-ry-umma, of whose lethal influence
they lived in abject fear.
InA. In the holy records, it is true, we read that
demons were even permitted to enter the bodies ofother
beings, and that when they had so established a posses-
sion, by divine command they went out of those pos-
sessed, as, for sacred example, into the herd of the
Gadarenes ; that they were also commissioned, for the
fulfilment of the inscrutable will of the Creator, to try
the endurance of Job, and even to tempt the divinity of
the Saviour, and that they were the immediate cause of
madness and other sad affiictions.
I do fear, Astrophel, that there is much danger, now, in
this embodying of a demon ; and that we too often model
our modem principles, on the proud presumption of
still possessing that miraculous power of exorcism.
'Vith sorrow may I confess, that the holy truths of
Scripture, so clearly evincing a special purpose, should
have been ever warped, by worse than inquisitorial
bigotry, into the motive for cruelties unparalleled. From
the Scripture histories of demoniac possession have
arisen the coercion and cruelties, which once marked
with an indelible stain the records of our own mad-
houses ; ·where chains and lashes, inflicted by the de-
mons of science, have driven the moody wretch into a
raving maniac, when a light hand and a smile would
have brought back the angel reason to the mind.
Impersonation is the grand source of many similar
errors. The demon, which, since the light of the Chris-
tian dispensation has brooded in man's heart and mind,
is his own base passion, which incites him to shut his
eyes to this holy light, and follow deeds of evil ; to be a
slavish worshipper in the hall of Arimanes. 'Vith this
profane homage, we court our evil passions, to betray and
destroy the soul. And this is the interpretation of an
allegory in the profane legends ofthe Talmud-that Lilis,
DEllO~OLOGY.
the wife of Adam, ere the creation ofEve, brought forth
none but demons ; the origin, indeed, of moral evil.
There are many popular stories which bear a moral
to this end : that the evil spirit is powerless over the
heart, if it be not encouraged and invited; and, alas !
the alluring masque under which evil looks on us, is
often but too certain to charm us to its influence, or we
arc too thoughtless to beware the danger. Thus the
disguised enchanter enters into the palace of the Sultan
l\fesnar, (in "The Tales of the Genii,") and thus the
gentle Christabel of Coleridge leads the false Geraldine
over that threshold, which she could not cross without
the help of confiding and unsuspecting innocence.
CAsT. The crones of retired villages have not yet
yielded their belief in fairy influence.
Among the low Irish it is believed that (as the nymplt-
olepts of old who had looked upon Pan, sealed an early
doom), the paralytic is fairy-struck; and superstition
has inspired them with a belief in the influence of the
evil eye or glamourie, especially in the vicinity of Black-
water.
I remember, when our wanderings among the'Vicklow
mountains led us through the dark glen of the Dargle,
the implicit faith of the Irish women in the charm of
amulets and talismans. Like the fabled glance of the
basilisk, the evil eye is bestowed on some unhappy
beings from their very birth; nay, the spell infests the
cabin in which they herd. To avert this fatal influence
from the children, a charm is suspended around their
necks, which when blessed by the priest is called a
"gospel."
'Vhen a happy or evil star shines at a birth, it is the
eye of a cherub or ademon, smiling or frowning on the
destiny of the babe; and when happiness or misery
predominates in a life, it is a minister of good or ill that
blesses or inflicts. There is one beautiful scrap of this
170 DEllONOLOGY.
mythology-the thrill of holy joy which the Irish mo-
ther feels when her infant smiles in its sleep; for she
knows it is a holy angel whispering in its ear.
In our own island they are often celebrated as the
very pinks of hospitality.
In Cornish history, we read how Anne Jeffries was
fed for six months by the small green people. And in
yonder forest of Dean, (as writeth Gervase, the Imperial
Chancellor, in his " Otia lmperialia,") " In a gravy
lawn there is a little mount, rising in a point to the
height of a man, on which knights and other hunters
are used to ascend, when fatigued with heat and thirst,
to seek some relief for their wants. The nature of the
place and of the business is, however, such, that who-
ever ascends the mount must leave his companions and
go quite alone. When alone, he was to say, as if speak-
ing to some other person, ' I thirst,' and immediately
there would appear a cup-bearer in an elegant dress,
with a cheerful countenance, pearing in his outstretched
hand a large horn, adorned with gold and gems, as was
the custom among the most ancient English. In the
cup, nectar of an unkno"\Yn but most delicious flavour
was presented; and when it was drunk, all heat and
weariness fled from the glowing body, so that one
would be thought ready to undertake toil, instead of
having toiled. ~loreover, when the nectar was taken,
the servant presented a towel to the drinker to wipe
his mouth with, and then, having performed his office,
he waited neither for recompense for his services, nor
for questions, nor inquiry."
This frequent and daily action had, for a very long
period, of old times taken place among the ancient peo-
ple, till one day a knight of that city, when out hunt-
ing, went thither, and having called for drink, and
gotten the horn, did not, as was the custom, and as in
good manners he should have done,. return it to the
DEMONOLOGY.
cup-bearer, but kept it for his own usc. But the illus-
trious Earl of Gloucester, when he learned the truth of
the matter, condemned the robber to death, and pre-
sented the hom to the most excellent king, Henry the
Elder; lest he should be thought to have approved of
such wickedness, if he had added the rapine of another
to the store of his private property.
But the fairies might rue their kindness, if you
frowned so darkly on them, Astrophel. They would fear
the influence of your spells, for there is blight and mil-
dew in that glance. At the banquet of the fairies, if
the eye of the seer but look on them, the romance is
instantly at an end : the·nymphs of beauty are changed
into withered caries and crones, and the splendour of
Elfin-land is turned to dust and ashes.
InA. As a set-off against the virtues of your fairies,
Castaly, you forget there was a propensity to mischief.
They were rather fond, like the Daoine Shi, of stealing
unchristened babes, and ofchopping and changing these
innocents, thence called changelings. On this £'lblc your
own Shakspere has wrought the quarrel of Oberon and
Titania:-
" A lovely boy, stol'n from an Indian king ;
She never had so sweet a changeling."
I am willing, dearest, that the poet shall make a good
market of these fictions ; but superstitious ignorance
may make a sad and cruel work of it, even among your
romantic Irish peasantry.
A few months since, on the demesne of Heywood
(as we learn from the "Tipperary Constitution"), the
death of a child, six years old, was accomplished \Vith a
wantonness of purpose almost incredible. Little l\fa-
hony was afflicted with spinal disease, and, like many
other deformed children, possessed the gift,-in this
case the fatal gift,-of acute intellect. For this quality,
it was decided that he was not the son of his reputed
172 DE!\t:O.XOLOGY.
father, but a fairy changeling. After a solemn convo-
cation, it was decreed that the elfin should be scared
away : and the mode of effecting this was, by holding
the child on a hot shovel, and then pumping cold water
on his head ! This had the effect of extorting a confes-
sion of his imposture, and a promise to send back the
real Johnny Mahony ; but ere he could return to elf-
land and perform this promise, he died. But who is he
sitting at your ear, Castaly?
CAsT. Sir, is this fair? You have played the eaves-
dropper. "\Vhy come you her~?
Ev. To counsel you to silence on these mysteries,
sweetest Castaly : remember the fate of ~laster Kirke,
of Aberfoyle, for his dabbling in elfin matters, which
you may read in Sir "\Valter's ''Demonology." Yet I
will not flout all your fayrie legends; there may be
innocent illusions, that carry with the,m so~ewhat of
morality and retribution,-seeing that there are good
and bad spirits, which reward and punish mortality.
But, in sooth, I never think of fairyland, without re-
membering that good Sir Walter, as sheriff of Selkirk-
shire, once took the deposition of a shepherd, who
affirmed. that he saw the good neighbours sitting under
a hill-side: when, lo! it was proved that these were the
puppets of a showman, stolen and left there by some
Scotch mechanics. And, better still, the story of the
~Iermaid of Caithness, as related to Sir Humphrey
Davy, and recorded in his "Salmonia;"-the mermaids,
as I take it, being nearly allied to the J\Tereid, or Sea-
fairy, and the reality of one about as true as that of the
other.
Nature is wild and beautiful enough, without these
false creations. Read her truth, fair lady, and leave the
fables to the fairies. There is not a ripple or a stone
that is not replete with scientific interest, and yields not
a study that both ennobles and delight~ the mind.
POETRY <H' NATVRJ<;.
The doublings, or lwrse-slwes, of this Wye, or Vaga
as the Romans named it, within its circle of rocks, so
exquisitely fringed with green and purple lichens (like
the Danube, round the castle· of Hayenbaeh in the
gloomy gorge of Schlagen, or the Crook of Lune, in
'Vestmoreland, and many others), illustrate at once the
nature of the stratification on the earth's surface; even
the varied tints of these mountain streams may read the
student .apractic lesson in geology.
From the lime-rock springs the azure-blue, as the
Glaslyn stream, at Beddgelert, the Rhone, and the
Traun in Styria; from the chalk ripples the grey water
of the Dee and the Arve; from the clay hills the stream
comes down yellow, as "the Derwent's amber wave;"
and where the ·peat-mosses abound, especially in the
autumnal flood, the stream is of a rich and dark sienna
brown, as the Conway, and the Mawddach, in Merion-
eth; or even of transparent black, as the Elain, which
flows down through the white schist rocks of Cardigan-
s~ire.
CAsT. And is there wisdom, Evelyn, in thus
" Flying from Nature to study her laws,
And dulling delight by exploring the cause !"
I do fear that this analytic study of nature destroys the
romance of life which flings around us its rainbow
beauty.
Oh, for those halcyon days of infancy, when every
thought was a promise; when hope, the drearn of wak-
ing men, was lost in its fulfilment ; and even fear itself
was a thrill of romance !
Behold yon silver moon! it is, to the poet's eye, an
orb of unsullied beauty, and the planets and their satel-
lites glitter like diamond studs in the firmament.. Yct
shift but the lens of the star-gazer, and lo ! dark and
murky spots instantly shadow o'er its purity; nay, have
POETRY OF NATl!RE.
I not read that one deep astronomer, Fraiienhofer, has
discovered mountains and cities; and another, Sir John
Herschell, the laying dO\vn of rail-roads in the moon ?
So the optics of Gulliver magnified the court beauties
of Brobdignag into monsters, and the auburn tr~sses of
a maid of honour into a coil of dusty ropes !
Ev. Atruce, fair Castaly. Ifscience discovers defects,
does it not unfold new beauties, a new world of ani-
mated atoms, endowed with faculties and passions as
influential as our own? Nay, science has thrown even
a poetry around the blue mould of a cheese-crust; and
in the bloom of the peach the microscope has shown
forth a treasury of flowers, and gigantic forests, in the
depths of which the roving animalcule finds as secure
an ambush as the lion and the tiger within the gloomy
jungles of Hindostan. In a drop of liquid crystal the
water-wolf chases his wounded victim, till it is changed
to crimson with its blood. Ehrenberg has seen monads
in fluid the 24,000th part of an inch in size ; and in one
drop of water 500,000,000 creatures-the population of
the globe! I hope, Castaly, you will not, like the Brah-
min, break your microscope, because it unfolds to you
these wonders of the water.
Then~ by the power of the telescope, we roam into
other systems-
" World beyond world in infinite extent,
Profusely scattered o'er the blue expanse,"
and orbs so remote as to reduce to a mere span
the distance between us and the Georgium Sidus ; and
revel in all the gorgeous splendour of rings, and moons,
and nebulre, the poetry of heaven.
Is there not an exquisite romance in the closing of
the barometrical blossoms; of the white convolvulus,
and the anagallis or scarletpimpernel; of the sun-flower,
and the leaves of the Dioncea and mimosa?
Is there not poetry in the delicate nautilus, with its
P(H~TRY OF :\'ATVHE. !75
arms dropped for oars; in the 'Oelella and purple plly..uzlia
expanding their membranous sails; and the beautiful
fish-lizard, the Proteus of transparent alabaster, found
in the wondrous cavern of :Maddalena, among the Sty-
rian mountains; and even in the Stalactytes of Anti-
paras, as glittering as the gems and crystal pillars of
Aladdin's palace? Are not these more beautiful be-
cause they are true, and better to be read than all the
impersop.ations of mythology, or that voluptuous ro-
mance which would endow a flower with the fervour of
sense and passion?
InA. I have ever wondered that a scholar, like Dar-
win, should have so wasted time with his " Loves of the
Plants." For the study of nature and the discoveries
of science are ever vain, if they lift not the heart in
adoration. The insect, that fans the sunbeam 'vith its
golden wing, or even the flower that opes its dewy eyes
to the light, are unconscious worshippers of the Divine
Being.
The Epicurean, who weeps for a decaying body, but
~ourns not for a lost soul, will enjoy these beauties of
nature with a heart faithful to his creed, that pleasure is
the only good; but the Christian feels that, when he
chips a stone, or culls a flower, he touches that which
comes fresh from the hand of its Creator.
How full is nature, too, of mute instruction ! the
simplest incident is a lesson, if we will but learn it. You
see that fading blossom floating on the surface of the
stream. That inanimate type of decaying beauty shows,
to the reflective mind, that even in the summer of life
the flower of existence will lose its youthful lustre, and
float down the stream of time into the depths ofeternity.
But tell me, Evelyn, may not the influence of that
science that magnifies the lights of heaven (ere~ted to
rule day and night) into habitable worlds, weaken the in-
fluence of faith in holy writ?
176 POETRY OF XATURE.
May we not fear that, like ·the Promethean Pre-
adamites of Shelley, the Cain of Byron, the fabled beings
of Ovid, and the mythology of l\iilton, will be the
vaunted discoveries of the geologist, in controversion of
the ~iosaic records, of the creation and the d~luge ;
proving the wisdom of Bacon, that to associate natural
philosophy with sacred cosmogony, will lead to heretical
opinions? Indeed, I remember in the Zendavesta of
Zoroaster, the chronicle ofthe Magian religion (supposed
to be a piracy from the book of Genesis), the sun IS
created before light.
Ev. Fear not this, fair Ida. Rather believe with
Bouget, that philosophy and natural theology mutually
confirm each other. The latter teaches us that which it
is our duty to believe; the former to believe more firmly.
And Lord Bacon himself, in his " Cogitata et Visa,"
deems natural philosophy "the surest antidote of super-
stition, and the food of religious faith."
The belief in existence of a preadamite world, pre-
sumes not to controvert the Mosaic record of the deve-
lopment of the globe, the creation of Adam, or the fall
of man. Modern geology has peopled this preadamite
world with saurians, or lizards, a race of beings not con-
cerned i"n the punishment of that delinquency. Of the
existence of these creatures there is no doubt; the dis-
covery of their fossil remains, without a vestige of the
human skeleton, marks the period of their destruction,
and that the crust of the globe enveloping these relics,
might have been reduced to that chaos when " the earth
was without form and void, and darkness was upon the
face of the deep;" and from which our beautiful world
was fashioned by a fiat.
The truth of holy Scripture is too clear even to be
disturbed by a sophist. You may recollect that Julian,
the apostate, contemplated the reconstruction of the
Temple of Jerusalem, in order to confute the prophecies;
POE'l'RY OF ~ATHUE. ,..,
,;,
but Julian failed, and misfortune was the lot of all who
were leagued in the impiety.
As to natural laws, think me not so profane as to cite
such as the superstitious alchemyst, Paracelsus, in
proof of their use in the working of a miracle; who says
that " devils and witches raise storms by throwing up
alum and saltpetre into the air, which comes down as
rain-drops !"
And it were reversing this solemn argument were I
to confess the doctrines of the Illuminaten, who, taught
by Jacob Boehmen, and the mysticisms of his "Theo-
sophia Revelata," explained all nature's la\vs by warping
texts of Scripture to their purpose. Yet it is clear that
even the miracles of the prophets may have been some-
times influenced by established laws. Elisha raised the
Shunamite's son by placing mouth to mouth, as if by
inhalation.
Believe not then, fair Ida, that philosophy is set in
array against religion, .when the student of nature en-
deavours to explain her phenomena by physical laws,
far those laws tile great Creatar himself llatll made.
N
NATURE OF SOUL AND MIND.
" And for my soul, what can it do for that,
Being a thing immortal?" HAMLET--
CA.sT. We have risen with the lark to salute you, As-
trophel. And you have really slept in Tintern Abbey?
Yet not alone; "I see queen ~1ab hath been with you,"
and brushed you with her ~ng as you lay asleep.
AsTR. Throughout the live-long night, sweet Cas-
taly, I have revelled in a world of dreams. My couch
and pijlow were the green grass turf. No wonder that
tales of the times of old should crowd on my memory,
that elfin lips should whisper in my ear-
CAsT. "The soft exquisite music of a dream."
InA. Talk not of dreams so lightly, dear Castaly; the
visions of sleep are among the most divine mysteries of
our nature : these transient flights of the spirit in a
dream, unfettered as they seem by the will, are, to my
own mind, among the most exalted proofs of its immor-
tality. Is it not so, Evelyn?
Ev. The mystery which you have glanced at, Ida, is
the most sublime subject in metaphysics. Yet in our
analysis of the phenomena of intellect, it is our duty to
discard, with reverential awe, many of the notions of
~ATURE OF SOl'L \::\D ~fiXD. 179
the pseudo p8yclwlogiRts in allusion to that sclf:.cvident
truth, that requires not the support of such arguments.
In tracing the mystery of a dream to its association
with our immortal essence, reason will at length be in-
volved in a maze of conjecture. 1'rue philosophy will
never presume to e.rplain the mystical union of spirit
and of flesh; she would be bewildered even in their
definitionS', and would incur some peril of forming un-
hallowed· conclusions. Even the nature of the rational
soul will involve him in endless conjecture, whether it
be fire, as Zeno believed; or number, according to Xeno-
crates; or harmony, according to Aristoxenus; or the
lucid fire-the Creator of all things, of the Chaldean
astrologers.
He who aspires to a solution of the mystery, may
wear out his brain in the struggle, as Philetas worked
himself to death in a vain attempt to solve the celebrated
"Pseudomenos," the paradox of the stoics; or, like the
gloomy students of the German school, he might con-
clude his researches with a question like this rhapsody
-unanswerable.
"But thou, my spirit, thou that knowest this, that
speakest to thyself, what art thou? what wast thou ere
this clay coat was cut for thee? and what wilt thou be
when this rain-coat, this sleeping-frock, fall off thee like
a garment tom to pieces? \Vhcnce comest thou? where
goest thou? Ah! where from and to, where darkness
is before and behind thee? Oh ye unclothed, ye naked
spirits, hear this soliloquy-this soul-speech. Know yc
that ye be ? Know ye that ye were, that yc arc as we
are or otherwise, in eternity? Do ye work within us,
when a holy thrilling darts through us like lightning,
where not the skin trembles but the soul within us?
Tell us, oh tell us, what then is death ?"
Now, if we reflect on the psychology of the Greeks,
can we discern their distinctions of vov{;, 7rvwpa, tf;uxt"
N2
l80 X.ATURE OF SOUL AXD ~IIXD.
uwJla, of soul or spirit-of spiritual body, or of idol and
of earthly body; or of OvflO!:, lf;vxl" and vov{;, ~VXfl, and
so forth?
This fine distinction may be reduced to one simple
proposition :-that soul and mind are the same, under
different combinations: mind is soul evinced through
the medium of the brain ; soul is mind emancipated
from matter. This principle, if established, might as-
sociate the anomalies of many sophists ; the existence
of two minds, the sensitive and intellectual, taught by
the Alexandrian philosophers~ or the tenets of Bishop
Horsley, in his sermon before the Humane Society,
the separation of the life of intellect from animal life ;
and it might reconcile the abstract reasoning of medical
philosophy, with the pure but misdirected arguments of
the theological critic.
'ye believe the spirit to be the essence of life and
immortality; and it signifies not whether our words
are those of Stahl-that it presided over the animal
body; or those of Galen ana Aristotle-that it directed
the function of life. It is enough that we recognize
the rrvo11 ~Wfl!:, or that hreatlt of life, which the Creator
breathed into none hut man ; and the HKwv 8fou, the
image ~~ God, in which he '"as created. In this one
proposition all the points of this a"\\ful question are
comprehended. And it is on this combined nature that
we must reason, ere we discourse on sleep and dreams.
CAsT. I condole with you, Astrophel ; you must for-
get the splendour of your dreams, and listen to their
dull philosophy.
AsTR. 'Ve may indeed sympathize with each other,
Castaly; we arc threatened with another abstruse expo-
sition of the mind, although we are already sated with
the contrasted hypotheses of our deepest philosophers:
the cogitation or self-reasoning of Descartes, (the essence
of whose "Jlrincipia" was "Cogito, ergo sum;" and it
:-;ATUH.E 01~ SOUL A:-;n Ml:'liD.
is an adoption of Milton's Adam, "'l,hat I am, I know~
because I think :" forgetting that the very ego whie}~
thinks, is a proof of prior existence ;) and of :Male-
branchc, who believed they existed because they thought;
the abstract spiritualism of Berkley, who believed he
existed merely because others thought of him ; the
consciousness of Locke ; the idealism of Humc; the ma-
terial psychology of Paley ; the mental Cffrporeality of
Priestley; and the absolute nonentity of Pyrrho.
Ev. I leave these hypotheses to speak for themselves,
Astrophel; my own discourse will be wearying enough
without them.
Over the intricate philosophy of mind, Creative Wis-
dom has thrown a veil, which we can never hope to
draw aside. True, the beautiful mechanism of its organ,
the brain, is apparent; and we can draw some analogies
from inspection of the brain of a brute, and its progres-
sive development in fmtallifc, in reference to compara-
tive simplicity and complexity; but its phenomena arc ·
not, like most of the organic functions of the body,
demonstrable.
Now, although we know not the mode of this mutual
influence, the seat of mind is a subject of almost universal
belief; not that Aristotle, and .iEtius, and John Locke,
are our oracles on this point, although they have even
identified the s-pot, terming the ventricles the mind's
presence-chamber, while Descartes decided on the pineal
gland. It is, however, into the brain that the nerves of
all the senses enter, or from which they emanate: the
senses constitute the media by which the mind gains its
knowledge of the world, and therefore we regard the
brain as its seat.
'Ve believe that the mind may possess five faculties;
perception, association, memory, imagination, and.judg-
mcnt, and their focus or concentration is in the brain.
\!Ve may argue long on the eartldy nature of mind,
182 NATURE OF SOUL AND MIND.
contrasted "ith that of matter; yet, in the end, we com-
monly thus define it: a combination offaculties, and their
sympathy with the senses.
That to different parts of this organ are allotted dif-
ferent functions cannot be doubted, when we look at
its varied structure, its intricate divisions, its eccentric
yet uniform cavities, its delicate and almost invisible
membranes; and, indeed, physiological experiments are
proof of it.
AsTR. Then there is some truth in the whimsical
localities in the " Anatomy of Melancholy," and the
pictures of the tenants and apartments of the brain in
the ingenious romance of the " Purple Island " of
Fletcher.
Ev. A1though I grant that these ·eccentric writers
evince much reading, I am not sure that their imper-
sonations (like the "Polyolbion" of Drayton,) do not
tend to confuse, rather than elucidate, a natural sub-
ject.
Of a plurality of organs In the brain, I have been
convinced, even from my own knowledge and dissec-
tions. I have seen that very considerable portions of
the cere_brum may be removed, the individual still exist-
ing. The vital functions may continue, the animal func-
tions are deranged or lost. The most extensive injuries
of the brain, too, are often discovered, which were not
even suspected; and the converse of this is often ob-
servcd,-the diseases of the brain being commonly
found in. an inverse ratio to the severity of the symp-
toms. 'Vhen chronic tumours and cysts of water are
gradually formed, the extreme danger is averted by the
balancing power •of the circulation of the brain's blood;
without which its incompressibility would subject it to
constant injury.
In tubercles of the brain, it is curious that memory is
the £'1culty chiefly influenced; it is sometimes rendered
:'IZATUUE OF' SOUl. AND lll::-.iD. 183
dull, while the fancy is vivid,-ofteu more perfect and
retentive.
Brain, however, can no more be considered a_-;; mind
itself, than retina sight, or than the sealing-wax can be
identical with the electricity residing in it. For if we
look at the brain of a brute, we sec how closely it re-
sembles our own ; then, if we reflect on human intellect
and brute instinct, we must all believe at once that there
is some ,diviner thing breathed into us than the anima
bndorum of Aristotle, something more than the mere
vitality,-
"Spiritus intua alit, totamque infusa. per artus
Mens agita.t molcm."
Brain is therefore the habitat of mind, the workings
of which cannot be indicated without it; for, as the
material world would be intact without a sense, so there
can be no mortal evidence of mind without a brain,
which is indeed the sense of the spirit. Thus, without
a,dopting the creed- of the Hyloist, the moderate mate-
rialist,-that the mind cannot have, during the life of
the body, even a momentary existence independent of
matter,-! believe, that when this matter is in a state
of repose, mind is perfectly passive to our cognizance.
InA. It is with diffidence, Evelyn, that I enter this
arena with a physician, learned in the body; but is
there no danger in this doctrine? does it not imply the
office of a gland,-that brain is the origin of soul, and
that its function was the secretion of thought.
Ev. Such is the timid error of the mere metaphysi-
cian, Ida. There is no such danger; for, remember, if
there be secretion, it is the soul which directs. ~fany a
thought is referred to things which we cannot bring
into contact with our consciousness,-except b:y tile
brain.
Dr. Gall writes of a gentleman, whose forehead was
184 NATURE OF SOUL AND :\liND.
far more elevated on the right side than the left; and
he deeply regretted that with this left side he could
never think. And Spurzheim, of an Irish gentleman,
who has the left side of the forehead the least developed
by four lines,-he also could not think with that side,
as indeed I have' before hinted.
I may tell you the brain is d-Ouble, and one healthy
hemisphere is sufficient, as the organ of mind, if pain or
encroachment of the opposite, when diseased, does not
destroy life, and this especially when it is a cltronic
change, or exists from birth ; so that I have often seen
one hemisphere of the brain a· pulpy bag of water, and
yet vitality and many signs of intellect may still exist ;
nay, even if the whole brain be reduced to one medullary
bag, animal life shall for some time be preserved.
To oppose this blending of mind and matter, Lord
Brougham (in his Natural Theology) likens the marble
statue hewn into beauty, to the perfect arrangement of
organization in a being. 'Vhile I admire the idea, I
may observe that ,he forgets this truth,-that the maker
of the one ·was a mere statuary, without even the fabu-
lous power of Prometheus, or Pygmalion, or Franken-
stein; the other, the Creator of all things, who breathed
a breath. oflife into the shape he had made fitted to receive
it. ~Iy lord thus halts at the threshold of discovery:
mind is not the product of organization, but it works by
and through it; and therefore, for its earthly uses, can-
not be independent of the qualities of matter. 'Ve may
as well ~o-ree with Plato, in endowing the soul with "a
plastic power, to fashion a body for itself, to enter a
shape and make it a body living." I remember Plutarch
(in his Qurest. Pluton.) makes him say, that the soul is
older than the body, and the source of its existence,
and that the intellect is in this soul. But where is the
sacred evidence of this ? for, even in our antenatal state,
we live, and yet there is probably no consciousness ;
~.\TURE OF SOl"L A~U Ml~O.
there is vitality, at least, without the consciou.'me.~.tt ot
an intellect.
AsTR. As the creation of light was before that of the
sun, its reservoir, so the creation of the soul might he
before the brain, in which the Creator subsequently
placed it.
Ev. For this there is sacred evidence, AstrophcL
'"fhere was light, ere the sun was created as its reser-
voir; but the soul was breathed into the body, which
was already then created.
AsTR. This is a specimen of your special pleading,
Evelyn, allied to that perilous error of Priestley, that
supposed function and structure to be identical, because
they are inflenced by the same disease, and seem to live
and die, flourish and decay, togetlu~r. Democritus also
has written his belief that, " as the smell of a rose exists
in the bloom, and fades as that dies, so the soul of an
animal is born with its birth, and dies with its death."
You have conceded to me (and we must all be conscious
of) the great difficulty of conceiving the nature of spirit;
but, if we are required to prove its existence, we may an-
swer, by.analogy, that we cannot always palpably prove
the existence of matter, although we know it to exist.
The electric fluid may remain for an indefinite period
invisible, nay, may never meet the sight,-it may even
traverse a space without any evidence but that of its
wonderful influence, and at length be collected in a jar.
As light, existing in remote stars, has not yet
reached our earth, so the electricity is now residing in
myriads of bodies, which will never be elicited ; and
thus (if I may extend the simile) the principle of life,
whatever it be, may have an independent existence
during life, may leave the body and yet not perish. h
not this a fine illustration of the living of the soul with-
out the body; for here even a gro!;'ser matter, yet invi-
sible, is evinced by its passage from one thing to
186 :\'ATt;RE OF SOrL A~D ~11:\'D.
another, although it is inert when involved in the sub-
stance?
InA. ~fay I not fear that the errors of philosophy,
grounded on the difficulty of conceiving the nature of
a self-existent spirit, will not stop until they lapse into
the belief of annihilation ?
For there are many suspicious sentiments even in the
pages of 'Yell-meaning writers; such are the dangerous
sentiments which Boswell has ascribed to ~Iiss Seward:
" There is one mode of the fear of death which is cer-
tainly absurd, and that is the dread of annihilation,
which is only a pleasing sleep without a dream."
There may be nothing terrible in the condition of
annihilation, yet the moral effect is deplorable; indeed,
to doubt the eternal existence is to argue that man's
life is but a plaything of the Deity. The notion of an-
nihilation is so abhorrent, that he who believes it dooms
himself indeed to a miserable existence ; for tlie crown-
ing solace of a Christian life is holy hope, and belief in
the priceless gift of immortality.
"Know'st thou th' importance of a soul immortal!
Behold this midnight glory-worlds on worlds !
· Amazing pomp : redouble this amaze !
Ten thousand add ; and t\\ice ten thousand more ;
Then weigh the whole ; one soul outweighs them all,
And calls th' astonishing magnificence
Of unintelligent cre.1.tion poor."
\Vould that Priestley had read wisely that prophetic
truth in Ecclesiastes : "Then shall the dust return to
the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return unto God
who gave it."
Ev. I do not approve his latitude of thought, yet it
were severe to think this, even of Priestley, merely be-
cause he disbelieved separate spiritual existence; for
Aristotle also asserts, that " the soul could not exist
without the body, and yet that it was no.t the body, but a
NA'r U RE OF SOUL AN D ~li N D . l Si
part of it." Zeno, and the Stoics, ten ued that which
was called a spirit material ; and not only Ray and
Derham, but even Paley, and Johnson, disbelieved the
separate existence. The archdeacon's opinion, that we
should .have a substantial resurrection, is founded on
New-Testament evidence, and expressed in his discourse
on a future state. The apostle's simile of the wheat
implies a death of the grain : it dies, but there is no
remodelling, for it is the germ that lives and grows ; so,
although the body may not be restored, there is a de-
velopment of its germ in the transit or resurrection of
its spirit. The sage thought also the simile of St. Paul
should be taken literally, and not figuratively : and yet
he qualifies it thus : "We see that it is not to be the
same body, for the Scripture uses the illustration of
grain sown (which in its exact senseimplies an offspring,
and not a resurrection), and we know that the grain
which grows is not the same with what is sown. You
cannot suppose that we shall rise with a diseased body;·
it is enough if there be such a sameness as to distinguish
identity of person."
Blumenbach believed that when the soul revived,
after death, the brain would equally revive ; and there
is, indeed, nothing very irrational in all this, for death
is, even to our senses, not an annihilation, but only a
new combination ofmatter. The Greek sceptics thought
that the teeth would remain perfect, if all else was de-
composed and lost; and the rabbins conferred this per-
petuity on one bone of the spinal column, which they
called LUZ. These strange notions of the mystic
union may explain to us that diversity of custom, in
various nations, as to the disposal of the dead. \Yhilc
the Irish papists, with a superstitious reverence for in-
animate clay, celebrate their wakes with rites often. as
licentious as they are profane; the cannibal Calatile
thought it more respectful to eat the bodies of t!Leir
188 XATURE OF SO U L A XD ~li~D.
departed friends, at least so writes Herodotus ; and the
filial love of other Indian tribes invites the children to
strangle their aged parents, as they sit in their fresh-
made graves.
It is certainly more consolatory to associate our
thoughts with the immortal part of a lost friend ; to be-
lieve the spirit to be in celestial keeping, and that it
still hovers around us. The collapse and change of fea-
tures prove that the body is then but as the dust from
which it was first formed. I would not wish, like
Socrates, to have my limbs scattered over the earth,
because
"Coolo tegitUr qui non habet urnam ;"
but, as the body must be consumed, were it not better
and safer, as the Greeks did, to burn the dead, to resolve
the corpse, as soon as possible, into its constituent ele-
ments. I shall ever remember with horror the scenes
which I ·witnessed in Naples, when a pile of bodies, col-
lected from the chapels by the dead carts, which go
round the city at night, was thrown by irreverent hands
into the public cemetery of the Campo Santo.
The fi.at of the Creator ~lAY at once produce a recon-
struction of the body, however "\\idely scattered its par-
ticles, and the return of the soul to the brain, from
which it had once departed ; but is it not somewhat
irrational to think that we should again be endowed
with organs, without the functions and passions to which
they are subservient?
InA. It may be a bliss to gaze even on the shadows
of those we love. There is a beautiful allegory of this
solemn question told in the " Spectator," which, as
Addison approves, it cannot be profanation to admire.
It is the Indian legend of" ~Iarraton and Yaratilda," in
which the devoted husband comes unawares on Paradise,
and sees the shadowy forrns of his w~fe and children,
without their substance. The story exquisitely blench tlw
fond wish of ~fm·raton to die, that he may be again ad.,
mitted to the holy communion of those so fondly loved .~
for Paradise is painted in the mind's eye even of the:
heathen, although, in his dearth of revelation, he asso-
ciates the joys of his elysium with the sensual pleasures
of terrestrial life. The Indian dreams of his dog~, be-
lieving that the greatest hunters shall be in the highest
favour :with Brahma; the proselytes of the prophet die
in a vision of their houri's beauty ; and the warriors of
Odin already drink the honey-water from the skulls of
their enemies, served up to them by the beautiful
" Valkhas" of the " Valhalla." Thus even the creed of
infidels is not atheism. What thinks Evelyn?
Ev. As you do, Ida. As to the atheist, one, per-
chance, may have lived, if we rightly interpret the senti-
ments of Diogenes, and Bion, and Lucian, and Voltaire ;
but, I believe, one never died. ~Iy solemn duty has
summoned me to the death-bed of more than one re- ·
puted infidel, who have in health reasoned with fluency
and splendour, and have penned abstruse theses on life
and the world's creation. But, when danger lay in their
path of life, their stoic heroism fled, and left them ab-
ject cowards. They looked not even on the lightning's
flash without trembling, and the vision of death was a
sting to the conscience. I have seen many a death-bed
like that of Beaufort, who made "no signal of his hope,"
not because he disbelieved a God, but because a con-
viction of his sin left him without a hope and faith in
the promises.
Of course there cannot be an Eutltanasia where irre-
ligion has marked a life, but, believe me, there would be
no fear of death in an atheist.
AsTR. The mythologist and pagan may citt~ their
tables, and worship their idols in the recesses of their
pagodas and choultries ; but some idea of the Deity has
190 .:OOATllRE OF SOPL A:-<D :liiXD.
been unfolded to the mind of ail. Even the eastern
princes have had some glimpses of the true faith, and
shahs and caliphs were once engaged in building their
Nestorine or Christian churches.
The profane Chinese has, it is true, called his realm
the celestial empire; Fohi, who is believed to have
reigned three thousand years before Christ, established
his " lconolatria" or "idolatry," and Si Lao Kiun struck
at the establishment of polytheism, but the purer theo-
logy of Confucius prevailed over his rival.
The Deity, indeed, is the essence of every creed, for
all believe in a great spirit as w~ll as an immortal mind
and a paradise. Like the reasonings of natural philo-
sophy, our notions and epithets of the great Creator
certainly differ, but ~ all there is faith in his perfection.
Xam Ti is the great spirit of the Chinese, as 'Voden is
the god of the Gothic races, and Brahma, or Alia, or
the Kitchi Manitou, or even the sun, the s·ource of
light, and heat, and joy to the creation, are the deities
of other nations. Nor may 've wonder more that the
Ghebir, and the Peruvian, and the Natches should wor-
ship their orb of fire, than that the Irish should, on the
morning .of their Beltane, light their peat fires to the
sun.
The doctrines of the Brahmins all attest their creed
of theism, if we interpret aright the evidence of the
learned Pundits of Benares, especially in the Gentoo
code ; and the records of Abul Fazel in the "Baghvat
Geeta," an episode in the poem of the " ~1.ahabarat,"
written to prove the unity. The devout Christian will
deem this creed a woful error, but he will confess his
admiration of their sublime notion of the divine attri-
bute, which Colonel Dow has thus imparted to us: "As
God is immaterial, he is above all conception ; as he is
invisible, he can have no form ; but from what we be-
hold of his works, we may conclude that he is eternal,
omnipotent, knmving all things, and present every.,
where."
I will grant that the oriental notions of cosmogony,
or the creation of the world, arc ablot on their scripture
page : because the pagan theologians were shorn of the
light of Christianity, they were prone to refer creation
to natural causes within their own comprehension, and
their ideas were fabulous and impure. Thus, among
the Hin,doos and EgJ11tians, there is a mass of obscenity
adduced to account for the development of the globe,
in the associations of Vishnu and Siva, and Osiris and
Isis; and the temples of Elephanta and Elora arc
adorned with symbolic paintings of this incarnation of
Vishnu. Yet, with all this error, there is in the "Vcdas"
or Hindoo scriptures, a not remote analogy to the Bible
itself; and, granting that the cosmogony of Phrenicia is
little more than a mysterious romance; yet, whether the
great cause be the demiurgic spirit uniting with desire,
or the being "That" of the Hindoos, the essence of all
t~ese mysteries still combines the grand scheme of the
creation,-the formation of a beautiful world from a
chaos of wide and dark waters.
InA. You are wandering very far eastward, Astro-
phel : I will propose this question to Evelyn.
If it is so evident that the brain and mind, although
not identical, exist in a most intimate union, may we
not undervalue their relative influence by adducing the
energy of intellect and brilliancy of conception possessed
by many in advanced life? Remember the green old
age of Plato, and Cicero, and Ncwton, and Johnson,
and, above all, Goethe, whose last work was brilliant as
his first. And all this, coincident with that loYc of
Infinite Wisdom that exists, (as we read in the "Con-
solations of a Philosopher,") " even in the imp.ert(~ct
life which belongs to the earth, increase,($ lt·itlt age, out-
lives the perfection of the corporeal faculties, mul, at
192 ~ATURE OF SOUl. AND ~liND.
the moment of death is felt by ·the conscious being."
Does this imply decay ?
Ev. The retentive powers of old age, are the excep-
tion to a rule, which the ultra spiritualist assumes as a
general rule, in attempting to disprove the growth and
decay of mind, according to the age of the body. But
as lives are of .different duration and constitutions vary,
so may mental powers indicate different degrees of
vigour. If mind increases,. no doubt it decreases; and
I have known many, who retain every faculty but me-
mory, which is the first to decay and indicate failing
power; and so also is it with Idiots, in whose memory,
usually, the greatest defects appear ; the faculty of
counting numbers reaches only to three, and of letters
to C, the third letter in the alphabet.
Ida will grant that there is no more impressive lesson
of humility than the dwindling and decay of genius,
when, in the words of the Athenian misanthrope-
"Nature, as it grows again toward earth,
Is fashion'd for the journey, dull and heavy."
Reflect on the painful end of Sheridan and other bril-
liant wi~s of their day; that
"From Marlborough's eyes the streams of dotage flow,
And Swift expire.<~ a driveller and a show ;"
and we may almost wish that biography should begin
at each end, and finish in the middle, or zenith of a life.
InA. If the fact be so, I grant the lesson to our pride,
Evelyn; and we may dwell with fervent admiration on
the divinity of that mind, which can ennoble and conse-
crate our body, so fraught as it is with basest passions,
and so decayable withal.
NATURE OF SLEEP.
"--Sleep, gentle sleep!
Nature's soft nurse." HENRY IV. Part iL
InA. I begin to perceive the importance of this digres-
sion on the nature of mind. You wish us to believe,
there is a temporary desertion of the spirit from the
body, and therefore the body sleeps ?
Ev. Not absolute desertion, but a limit to its in-
fluence. ~fany have thought in conformity to your
question; and indeed, Ida, it is a belief so holy, that I
may feel it to be almost an impiety to differ.
From the time of Aristotle to Haller, the term
" Sleep " expresses that condition which is marked by
a cessation of certain mental manifestations, coincident
with the degree of oppression ; for it is an error to say
that the body sleeps,-it is the brain only, perhaps I may
say, the cerebrum, or the fore lobes ; for I believe the
lower part of it (that which imparts an energy to the
process of breathing and of blood circulation) is never
in a complete sleep, but merely in a state of languor,
or rather of repose, sufficient for its restoration,-if it
were to sleep, death would be the result.
This repose is in contrast with a state of waking, that
activity of mind in which ideas are constantly chasing
0
194 ~ATURE OF SLEEP.
each other like the waves of ocean ; the mode of dis-
placing one idea being by the excitement of another in
its place.
In that state of sound sleep which overcomes chil-
dren, whose tender brains are soon tired, or old persons
whose brains are worn, and in persons of little reflection,
-the mind is perfectly passive, and its manifestations
cease.
So writes Professor Stewart,-that there was a total
suspension of volition during sleep, as regards its in-
fluence over mental or corporeal faculties ; and I may
even adduce a scrap from B~on, although I am an
admirer of the quaint old compiler for little else than
his measureless industry :-
" Sleep is a rest or binding of the outward senses,
and of the common sense, for the preservation of body
and soul. Illigation of senses proceeds from an inhibi-
tion of spirits, the way being stopped by which they
should come ; this stopping is caused by vapours aris-
ing out of the stomach, filling the nerves by which the
spirits should be conveyed. When these vapours are
spent, the passage is open, and the spirits perform their
accustomed duties : so that waking is the action and
motion of the senses, which the spirits, dispersed over
all parts, cause."
AsTR. But is volition always suspended even in sound
sleep? Was it not the opinion of Berkley, that the mind
even then was percipient? How else can we account
for the waking exactly at one predetermined hour ? If
we retire to sleep at the latest hour, or oppressed with
fatigue, so strong an impression is produced in our
mind, that the breaking of our sleep is almost at the
given moment.
Ev. I will answer you at present, Astrophel, only by
analysis; it is not yet time to explain.
I may grant that there is some latent effect,-passive
memory, if you will,- for we do not count the hours in
sleep, and calculate our time by tlte clock; but we wake,
and soon the bell strikes.
\Ve have on record some very curious instances of
the periodical recurrence of ideas in a waking state, the
measurement of time being referrible to mental impres-
sion, mechanically established by constant habit.
There was an idiot once, who was in the habit of
amusing, himself constantly by counting the hours as
they were struck on the clock. It chanced, after some
time, that the works of the clock were injured, so that
the striking for a time had ceased. The idiot, notwith-
standing, continued to measure the day with perfect
correctness, by counting and beating the hour. This is
a story of Dr. Plott's, in his History of Staffordshire.
There is one of inore modem date, somewhat ana-
logous to this.
I may quote Holy Writ in support .of this passive con-
dition of true sleep ; nay, even its similitude to death.
How often do we find allusions to sleep and death
as synonymous ! Sir Thomas Brown was impressed
so deeply with this likeness, that he "did not dare to
trust it without his prayers." And the Macedonian,
who wished for more worlds to conquer, confessed his
sleep proved to him his mortality. I may quote ancient
poetry also in my support. Homer and Virgil describe
sleep as the " Brother of Death ;" and, among the pro-
fane poets of later times, the same sublime association
is traced of this
"Mortis imago-et simulacrum."
Among the ancient allegories, sleep is portrayed as a
female, with black unfolded wings,-in her left hand, a
white child, the image of Sleep ; in her right, a black
child, the image of Death.
0 2
196 XATURE OF SLEEP.
On the tomb of Cypselus, according to Pausanias,
night is thus personified.
CAsT. How tr.ue, then, was the thought of the first
deep sleeper, on the sensation of slumber:-
" - There gentle sleep
First found me, and with soft oppression seiz'd
My drowned sense, untroubled ; tho' I thought
I then was passing to my former state,
Insensible, and forthwith to dissolve."
But how fearful is this res~mblance which changes
"tir'd nature's sweet restorer" into a type of death!
Pr'ythee, Evelyn, do not affright me thus, by clothing
sleep with terror, as if it were disease and danger.
Ev. vVhy tremble for the mortal sleep of the just and
good, who will feel, with 'Villiam Hunter, on their
death-bed, "how pleasant and easy it is to die;" and
with another moralist,-
" Oh what a wonder seems the fear of death,
Seeing how gladly we all sink to sleep ;
Night following night !"
Fear.not, Castaly; I do not term slumber and gentle
sleep disease, but signs of health. Not so, however,
many a profound sleep, and its advances towards coma;
those results of exhaustion from excess, or from intense
and direct narcotics, as opium sleep, and the para-
lyzing senselessness from extreme cold, as in the story
of Sir Joseph Banks and Dr. Solander in the antarctic
regions.
You are aware that many 1·emedies in medicine may
be so intense as to cause fatality: inflammation, too, is
the restorative process of wounds, but if in excess it is
fatal. Appetite also, to a certain degree, is healthy;
but craving and thirst, its extremes, are proved, by
suffering, to be morbid.
NATURE OF SLEEP. 191
If the mind is composed to perfect rest, it is lulled to
senselessness; then metaphysically we arc said to sleep:
the mind is not excited by thought, and, in consequence,
its supply of arterial blood is less, the more rapid flow
of which would be the cause of waking.
1Vithin certain limits sleep is a remedy; but it be-
comes perilous when intense, or too much indulged.
One eccentric physician, as we read in the learned
Boerhave, even fancied sleep the natural condition of
man, and was wont to yield to its influence during
eighteen of the twenty-four hours ; but apoplexy soon
finished his experiment.
This negative quiescence (for sleep is not a positit'e
state) allows the restoration of energy, and then we
wake. Even the senses accumulate their power in
sleep; the eye is dazzled by the light when we wake,
from the sensitiveness imparted by this accumulation.
The conceits regarding the cause of sleep are so va-
rious, that if I were to discuss their merits I should only
weary your patience, as I perceive I have already done.
Some have thought that sleep arose from certain con-
ditions of the blood in the vessels and nerves of the
brain; its congestion in the sinuses; or a rejlu:c of a
great portion of it towards the heart: the result of de-
pressed nervous energy-exhaustion, fatigue, cold, and
the influence of powerful narcotics, or the combustion
of charcoal. Others, that sleep arises from the depo-
sition of fresh matter on the brai~~~~nd its sudden pres-
sure. Then we have the cerebrat· cOllapse of Cullen, and
of Richerand ; the deficiency of animal spirits of Haller;
the diminished affiux of blood to the brain of Blumen-
bach ; and the exhausted irritability of the Brunonian
theory adopted by Darwin.
vVhere the truth lies I presume not to decide, but it
is clear there is a necessity for the occasional repose of
the mental organ:
198 XATUH.E OF SLEEP.
" Non sempel' al'cum
Tendit Apolio."
Watchfulness invariably reduces, even in the brute :
the wild elephant is tamed by the perseverance of the
hunter in keeping it constantly awake.
The mind, then, as it is manifested to us (for deeply
important is it that we confound not the perfect and
pure, because unembodied essence of the soul, with its
combinedexistence in the brain-that union from which
a thought is horn), the mind cannot exert itself beyond
a certain period without a sensation of fatigue in the
brain, as palpable as the exhaustion from excessive mus-
cular exertion. And this depends on a natural law,
that organs after acting a certain given period, flag and
lose their energy. Thus the first harbinger of sleep is
the closing of the lids from languor, and relaxation of
the muscles. Muscular fibre will, however, .regain its
expenditure by simple rest, requiring a certain period
for this re-accumulation, like.the charging ofan electrical
jar. Sleep, however, is not always a sequence of ex-
hausted irritability of muscle; we may be too tired to
sleep ; and thought and memory also will keep the
mind awake, and prevent nervous energy from renewing
corporeal vigour.
The excitement of thought beyond certain limits is
both painful and destructive, evincing ·its effects by
various grades of mental disorder, from simple headache
to confirmed mania. Our first ray of hope, in fever, is
often the coming on of a quiet sleep, and in the sad
cases of delirium tremens we must either sleep or die;
the effort of philosophical determination to overcome
the depression only adding to its intensity, as in the
case of a person worn out by labour, in attempting to
labour on. This conflict cannot be more pertinently
exemplified than by some passages in the life of Collins,
by one who knew him well:-
NATURE OF SLEEI>. 1!}9
"He languished some years under that depression of
mind which unchains the faculties without destroying
them, and leaves reason the knowledge of right without
the power of pursuing it. These clouds which he per-
ceived gathering on his intellects, he endeavoured to
disperse by travel, and passed into France ; but found
himselfconstrained to yield to his malady, and retutned.
His disorder was no alienation of mind, but general
la."'{ity a.nd feebleness, a deficiency rather of his vital
than intellectual powers. 'Vhat he spoke wanted neither
judgment nor spirit, but a few minutes exhausted him,
so that he was forced to rest upon the couch, till a
short cessation restored his powers, and he was again
able to talk with his former vigour."
I believe that sensibility and fatigue of mind, by in-
ducing sleeplessness, may often be the source even of
mania.
The sleep of animals is usually light, especially that
of birds, and they are easily startled when at roost.
'rhe cackling of the geese on their awaking, you know,
saved the Roman capitol. Yet sleep is altogether very
nearly balanced with .,vaking. Some animals sleep
often, like the cats, but they are long awake, and prowl-
ing in the night.. The python and the boa arc also
long awake, and then sleep for many days during the
process of digestion. Indeed, all the fer(£ fall into
sound sleep after feeding ; while the ruminants scarcely
sleep at all ; nor do they crouch like the fer(£, with the
head between the legs: but then their whole life is one
scene of quiet; rumination is a mindless reverie. The
'Vest Indian slaves and the Hottentots, or woolly bipeds,
resemble the brute animal in this, that they fall asleep
as soon as their labour is concluded.
That activity of mind in excess may induce even
mania, I may offer two impressive, although nef,J>Utive,
proofs, from the records of Dr. Rush.-" In despotic
200 ~ATURE OF SLEEP.
countries, and where the public passions are torpid, and
where life and property are secured only by the extinc-
tion of domestic affections, madness is a rare disease.
Dr. Scott informed me that he heard of but one single
instance of madness in China."
" After much inquiry, I have not been able to find a
single instance of fatuity among the Indians, and but
few instances of melancholy and madness."
I may add, that Baron Humboldt assures us of this
immunity among the 1\ild Indians of South America.
IDA. And may not this melancholy effect be averted
by caution and rule? 'Ve have a saying in Hereford-
shire, that " Six hours are enough for a man, seven for
a woman, and eight for a fool."
Ev. There cannot be a fixed rule on that point, ex-
cept the prevailing law of nature,-the feeling of neces-
sity; but this may often lead astray.
It is calculated that one half of a child's life is passed
in sleep, and one quarter to one sixth of the adult exist-
ence ; but for old age there 'is no essential period or
limit. Old Parr slept almost constantly about the close
of his life; while Dr. Gooch records the case of one
whose period of sleep was only one quarter of an hour
in the twenty-four. It is well to inure an infant to a
gradual diminution of its time of sleep, so that at ten
years old its period should be about eight hours.
The strength or energy of brain will, when aided by
custom, modify the faculty of controlling the disposi-
tion to slumber. Frederick the Great, and our own
Hunter, slept only five hours in the twenty-four; while
Napoleon seemed to exert a despotic power oyer sleep
and waking, even amid the roaring of artillery. Sir J.
Sinclair slept eight hours, and Jeremy Taylor three.
As a general precept, however, for the regulation of
sleep in energetic constitutions, I might propose the
wise distribution which Alfred made of his own time
201
into three equal periods,-one being passed in sleep,
diet, and exercise, one in despatch of business, and one
in study and devotion. Careful habit will often pro-
duce sleep at regular and stated periods, as it will
render the sleeper insensible or midisturbed by loud
noises; the gunner will fall asleep on the carriage amid
the incessant discharge of the cannon ; and, if I remem-
ber right, the slumbers of the bell-ringer of Notre Dame
were not broken by the striking of the quarters and the
hour close to his ear.
InA. And at what seasons should we wake and sleep?
It seems to me, that the Creator himself has written his
precepts in the diurnal changes ofthis world, that are still
so healthfully observed by the peasant, but so strangely
perverted by the capricious laws of fashion, and even
by the romantic
" sons of night,
And maids that love the moon ;"
fi\ways excepting Astrophel and Castaly. It moves my
wonder that they who have looked upon the beauty of
a sunrise from the mountain, or the main, can be caught
sleeping, when such a flood of glory, beyond all the
glare of peace-rejoicings and birth-lights, bursts upon
the world.
Ev. The wisest have thought with you, Ida, although
there was one idle poet, even Thomson, who confessed
he had" noe motive for rising early." It was the cus-
tom of Jewel and Burnet to rise at four; and Buffon,
we are told, rewarded his valet with a crown, if he suc-
ceeded in getting him up before six.
It is to slight the creation, not to enjoy the beauties
of daylight; and it is the natural time for sleep, when
the dews of night are on the earth. The proof o( this :
-There were two French colonels who were marching
their troops, one by day, the other by night; and the
202 XATURE 01<' SLEEP.
loss in men and horses was very far greater among the
night marchers.
CAsT. I believe.it was Panza, who "never de~ired a
second sleep, because the first lasted from night till
morning,"-that immortal Sancho Panza, whose quaint
rhapsody we must all echo so gratefully,-" Blessed is he
that first invented sleep." The eulogies of this blissful
state, and the wailings of a sleepless spirit, have ever
been a favourite theme of the poet, and our own ancient
dramatists,-as Beaumont and Fletcher, in the play of
"Valentinian," and Shakspere, from the lips of Henry
IV. in his beautiful invocation, and Young, and many
others.
Ev. Sleeplessness is one of the severest penalties of
our nature. In the darkness and silence of night the
wakeful mind preys on itself; the pulse is rapid, it is a
throb of anguish,-to the wearied thought there is no
conclusion. and the parched tongue prays iri vain for
the morning light. In the curse of Kehama, I think
the sleepless lid is one of the' most cruel inflictions; and
in the severe disorder which we term hemicrania, this
curse is to a degree realized.
The sleeplessness of Caligula is related by Suetonius.
In Bartholinus, we read of one who slept not for three
months, and he became a melancholy hypochondriac.
And Boerhave, from intense study, was constantly
awake during six weeks.
InA. "\Ve are happy in our quiet minds, are we not,
dear Castaly ? yet, if we are ever summoned to the
couch of one wearied by night watching, Evelyn will
tell us how we may soothe the pillow of a sleepless
mind, to which the secret of inducing slumber would
be a priceless treasure.
Ev. Study the causes of insomnia, or sleeplessness,
Ida; as those which excite nervous irritability,-coffee,
green tea, small doses of opium, the protracted use of
NATURE 0.1<' SLEEP. 203
antimony, &c.; and believe not in the virtues of vulgar
remedies, often as dangerous as they arc ridiculous.
There is a batch of these which Burton has gleaned
from various authors; as a sample,-nutmcgs, man-
drakes, wormwood; and from Cm·dan and Miraldus,-
the anointing the soles of the feet with the fat of a
dormouse, and the teeth with the ear-wax of a dog,
swine's galls, hares' ears, &c.
I might offer to you many plain precepts for the
alleviation of the ligltt causes of sleeplessness; and
while I dole them out to you in very dulness, you will
fancy my gold-headed cane to my chin, and other
essential symbols of an Esculapius of the olden time.
Adopt, then, a free ventilation in summer, and airing
in winter, of the chamber. This should never be a
mere closet, always above the ground floor, neither very
light nor dark, the window not being close to the bed,
and, above all, not in the vicinity of stoves, ovens, and
large kitchen fires. Do not allow the windows to be·
open throughout the night, to admit the cold dew or
air; and, in winter, the basket-fire should be placed
there for an hour before you enter your chamber. A
slight acceleration of the circulation may be produced
by gentle exercise before rest ; and two or three wafer
biscuits or spring water, to prevent the wakeful effects
of both chilliness·and hunger. A light woollen sock may
be worn, which is unconsciously displaced when sleep
comes on, and the night-cap should be little more than
a net, except during the very cold months. The posi-
tion of the body should be that which is the easiest,
except the supine, which induces congestion and often
"night mare;" and if there be much sensitiveness of
the surface, the hydrostatic bed should be employed,
but that not too long, as it will become heated by pro-
tracted pressure. Children should not be enveloped in
clothes, nor crowded in bed; nor should infhnts be
204 NATURE OF SLEEP.
shaken, or tossed, or patted, as foolish nurses too often
do.
There are many simple modes of inducing slumber :
I allude not to poppy and henbane, nor to the pillow of
hops, which, in the case of the third George, was the
charm that sealed up the lids of the king; but to other
modes, such as a tedious recital, (something like· my
own dull prosing,) the gentle motion of a swing, a cot
or cradle, the ripple of a stream, and the dashing of a
waterfall, the waving of a fan, the caw of rooks, the
hum of bees, the murmur of an _£olian harp-
CAST. So gracefully wound up in that quaint
rnorceau, the "Fairy Queen," when Archimago sends the
spirit to fetch· a dream from Morpheus-
"Cynthia still doth steepe
In silver dew his ever-drooping head,
Whiles sad night over him her mantle black doth spre~.
And more to lnll him in his slumber soft,
A trickling stream, from high rocke tumbling downe,
And ever dringling rain upon the loft,
l\fh'd with a murmuring winde, much like the souuc
Of swarming bees, did cast him in a swouue."
SUBLIMITY AND l~IPERFEC'fiON OF
DREA~fiNG.
" We are such stuff'
As dreams are made of, and our little life
Is rounded by a sleep." T E M P EST.
Ev. In the transition to andfrom the repose of sleep,
the mind is sinking into oblivion, and thought is fading,
and the senses and sensation arec overshadowed in
their regress to insensibility: even instinct is well nigh
a blank. This is the state of slumber. Then, I believe,
and only then, are we ever wandering in the ideal laby-
rinth of DREAftiS.
There is a curious calculation of Cabanis, that certain
organs or senses of the body fall asleep at regular pro-
gressive periods ; some, therefore, may be active while
others are passive, and in this interesting state, I may
hint to you, consists the essence of a dream. It seems
that in dreamless sleep, the senses fall asleep altogether,
as in the case of Plutarch's friends, Thrasymenes and
Cleon, ~nd others who never dreamed.
AsTR. So there is some truth in the fanciful conceit
of Cardanus, that '" Sleep is the rest of the spirits,
-waking their vehement motion, and dreaming their
tremulous motion."
CAsT. And philosophy plumes herself on her won-
206 SUBLIMITY AND UIPERFECTION
derous intuition for this discovery~ Let her blush, and
kneel before the shrine of poesy. The poets, even of a
ruder age than ours, have thought and written before
you, Evelyn, and have unfolded these arcana. How
doth Chaucer usher in his " Dreme ?"-
" Halfe in dede sclepe, not fully revyved ;"
and again:
" For on this wyse upon a night
As ye have herd withouten light,
Not all wakyng ne full on slepe,
About such hour as lovirS wepe ;"
and in "La Belle Dame sans Mercy," there is the same
thought:
" Halfe in a dreme, not fully well awaked ;"
and in Sir Walter's "Antiquary:" "Eh, sirs, sic weary
dreams as folk hae between sleeping and waking, before
they win to the long sleep and the sound." So will
your philosophy dwindle somewhat in its consequence,
Sir Clerke.
Ev. We are not jealous of these glimpses of a poet,
Castaly; "they impart a"value to their rhymes: we enrol
such poets in the rank of philosophers.
InA. Solve me this question, Evelyn: is there any
relative difference between the subjects of dreams before
and after sleep ?
Ev. It has been thought that there is more reference
to reality in the first, and more cpnfusion and wander-
ing of imagination in the secondi but as nature is often
excited rather than exhausted at night, there may be
equal brightness with the morning dream, occurring
after the recreation and refreshment of sleep.
CAsT. We may concede, then, some wisdom to the
Sybarites, who destroyed their morning heralds, the
OF DREAMI="lG. 207
cocks, that they might enjoy their matin dreams un-
disturbed. And I remember one of Pope's allusions to
the virtues of this V7rap, or morning dream :
"What time the morn mysterious visions brings,
While purer slumbers spread their golden wings."
AsTR. We have often discoursed on the psychology
of Locke, Evelyn, and we are now involved in one of its
most interesting points-innate idea. Is the dreamer
conscious of his dream ? It has been asserted, espe-
cially by two profound metaphysicians, Beattie and
Reid, that they persuaded themselves in their dreams
that they were dreaming; and would then attempt to
throw themselves off a precipice; this awoke them, and
proved the impression a fiction. l'Vere there not pre-
sent in this, v9lition and consciousness ; and is it not an
evidence of an innate idea without sensation?
Ev. No. A train of thought and passive memory
may take place without volition, even in a waking mind;
a train of reasoning cannot. So feeling and passive
thought may in the mere dream, but not a conscious
acting on it. The phenomena, and the expressions used
to describe these impressions, are precisely illustrative
of another condition of sleep, to which we have not yet
pointed. This notion of Beattie was but an echo of
Aristotle. The Stagyrite himself was subject to dreams
of danger, and, after a while, he used to whisper to
himself: ," Don't be frightened,-this is only a dream :"
the glaring proof that it was not ; and yet psychologists
still talk of the management of a dream.
The fairest explanation is, that there has been a pre-
determination on some point, and unconscious ideas on
the same point are elicited, or may be the first to pre-
sent themselves to the mind in the morning, at tlte mo-
ment we awaken, and thus it is the first which the judg-
ment acts on in its reverie ; that is, the line between
6
208 SUBLil\IITY AND IMPERFECTION
dreaming and ·being awake. If there be many organs
asleep, there is still some clouding of this judgment ; bl.1t
if that be asleep also, there is an absolute dream.
Ifwe know that we are dreaming, the faculty ofjudg-
ment cannot be inert, and the dream would be known to
be a fallacy. We might, by thinking, render our dream
what we pleased, and be sure we should never wish for
devils or dangers. The essence of the dream is that it
is uncontrolled: other states are not dreaming. Above
all, if judgment influenced the dream of Beattie, who
was not a madman, would 4e have wished to have
toppled down headlong from a rock? Listen to John-
son on this point. " He related that he had once, in a
dream, a contest of wit with some other person, and
that he was very much mortified by imagining that his
opponent had the better of him. Now." said he, "one
may mark here the effect of sleep in weakening the
power of reflection; for had not my judgment·failed me,
I should have seen that the wit of this supposed an-
tagonist, by whose superiority I felt myself depressed,
was as much furnished by me as that which I thought
I had been uttering in my own character."
Nay, ~n the words of Beattie himself, in his " Essay
on Truth,"-
" Sleep has a wonderful power over all our faculties.
Sometimes we seem to have lost our moral faculty; as
when we dream of doing that without scrup!e or re-
morse, which, when awake, we could not bear to think
o£ Sometimes memory is extinguished; as when we
dream of conversing with our departed friends, without
remembering any thing of their death, though it was,
perhaps, one of the most striking incidents we had ever
experienced, and is seldom or never out of our thoughts
when we are awake."
Even the most sensitive and amiable girls will dream
of committing murder, or the most a\~ful crimes, with-
OF DHEA:'tliXG . 209
out any sense of compunction. 'Ve feel no surprise at
the working of our own miracles ; and we know not how
to avoid danger. I have myself dreamed of occurrences
long past, as if they were of to-day; have fretted in my
sleep, on ideal events, and on waking was for a moment
wretched. But I have reflected, awake, on these very
events, and have not only felt resigned, but deemed
them benefits.
There was in the university of Gottingen the phy-
sician 'Valderstein. He was a constant dreamer, and
this is his account of one of these illusions. "I dreamt
that I was condemned to the stake, and during my exe-
cution I was perfectly composed, and indeed reasoned
calmly on the mode in which it was conducted ;-whis-
pering to myself, ' Now I am burning, and presently I
shall be converted into a cinder.'" It seems that he
was dissatisfied with his dream, on account of this apa-
thetic calmness ; and he concludes : " I was fearful I
should become all thought, and no feeling." I would
say, he was all illusion and no judgment.
It is but lately that I dreamed I was reciting a meta-
physical poem, which my vanity whispered me possessed
a deal of merit. During the recitation I thought there
was a turning up of noses, and of tongues into cheeks-
a very expressive sign of incredulity and satire. At
length a general murmur ran through the assembly
that it was a complete "boggle." Nothing daunted, I
assured them that it was a very. abstruse passage, and
the fault was in the shallow comprehension of my
audience. Need I add, that I should blush at such an
evasion in my waking judgment?
How different also is our dream from a waking
thought, in which we can control the fancy!
If in the dream the chain be abruptly broken, the
waking mind does not then carry on the train, and if
any thing occur in waking, associating with the dream,
I'
ilO Sl'IH.Dll1'Y .\XD DIPEHFECTIOX
to join the broken link, the dream is not completed, but
the ideas 'revert, or are retraced, to their source; and if
any idea at the origin of the dream be re-excited, there
will be no consistent continuance of it beyond the dream
itself, or, if there be, it will bear the stamp-of reasoning,
losing all connexion with the illusion. On the con-
trary, if we read as we are falling asleep, we continue in
the dream the subject of our study, but erroneously ; and
if we then start and wake, l\'e shall find that at the
moment of slumber we had changed the integrity of our
thinking. Be assured, then, that Virgil is correct in
this-
" She seems alone
To wander in her sleep, through ways unknown,
fi-uidde.s,q and dark."
CAsT. And now, Sir Knight, deign to look on the
other side of the shield. Answer me with sincerity,-
if your words be true, is no~ this a high privilege of
imaginative minds, to lift theinselYes out of the gloomy
atmosphere of this world of woe ; to soar with fancy,
not to drudge with fact ? How do I envy a romantic
dreamer~ like him of whom l\faster Edmund Spenser
writes,-
" -- at length, some wonted slepe doth crowne
His new falne lids, dreames straight, tenne pound to one,
Out steps some faery with quick motion,
And tells him wonders of some flonrie ,~ale."
Sleep is indeed the reality of another existence.
AsTR. So breathed the thought of Heraclitus, in
words like these,-that "all men, whilst they are awake,
are in one common world; but that each, when he is
asleep, is in a world of his own." The fairies are his
boon and chosen compeers, and the sylphs are as much
his handmaidens, as those around the toilet of Belinda.
'ye are indeed the happy children, and, like them, our
211
existence is a dream of fclicity,-one long and happy
thought of the present, with no reflection or forethought
to mar its blisses.
Then the shades and memory of departed friends and
lovers, are they not around us as true and as beautiful
as when they lived? The common sentiment of ena-
moured dreamers is-
" I hE--ar thy voice in dreams upon mE' softly call ;
I see thy form as when thou wert a living thing."
In the dream, ambition is lifted to the loftiest pinna-
cle of her high aspiri~gs ; and power and riches arc
showered in profusion in the path of their votaries
from the cornucopia of fancy ; and all this with a depth
and intensity that gilds for a time the moments of wak-
ing life. And I agree with Saint Augustine, that if we
sleep and dream in Paradise, our existence will be per-
fectly felicitous.
But then, alas! the cruel waking from this world of
pleasure. I have breathed many a sigh of sympathy
with Milton's dream of his dead wife, and with Crabbe,
in his " World of Dreams."
You remember, Evelyn, how oft you have wondered
at my absence from our college crena. You thought
not that I was then deeply studying how I might gain
a victory over my thoughts in sleep. As my waking
memory would, from some indefinite cause, be re-
excited after it had seemed to fade and die, so the sub-
ject of my dreams has been resumed after many months,
without any chain of relative thoughts in the interval.
I believed then that this might be a dream ; that I had
dreamt the same before ; but on the morning of the
second dream, reflection assured me that on the morning
of the first I had known and thought on it. I was
vmiting for a golden hour of inspiration, and it was
granted me. One night came o'er my slumber a dream
P2
212 SUBLDU'l'Y A.XD DIPERFEC'riOX
of beauty : there was an innocent happiness, a sense of
purest pleasure, that might be the beatitude of a peri
ere she lost her place in Eden. In the morning, the
dream was a part of my being; I nursed it throughout
the live-long day, and at night lay me down to slumber,
and again with the sleep came the dream. I was thus
the monarch of an ideal world: the dream was my life,
so long as my thoughts were on it concentrated, and
even study was a Rembrandt shadow on its brightness.
In a moment of rapture, I cried,-
"'Ve forget how superior, to mortals below,
Is the fiction they dream to the truth which they know."
I opened the leaf of a volume, in which an accom-
plished pen had traced an episode so like my own, as to
make me wonder at its truth.
It was of a visionary German, who, like myself, com-
manded the phantasie of sleep's own world, bringing
one night thus in connexion with another. He fashioned,
like Pygmalion, his idol, Love, and nightly met and
wooed, till he won her to his heart, and then he cried,-
" What ~f this glorious sleep be a real life, and this
dull waking the true repose ?" At length his ideal of
beauty, his dream, died, stung by a serpent. And then
the order of the vision was reversed; the dream lay
again before him, dead and withered; he saw his idol
only when he was awake, and this was to him a dream.
He pined in thought, and died,-sleeping.
"\Vas not the sleep of this man his real life, and a
scene of happiness? Could he wish for reality who
had enjoyed such a dream? For if in life there were
equal sleep and waking, and the sleep were all a happy
dream, this would indeed be a happy life.
May I tell you, Evelyn, that I enjoyed a deep sub-
limity of feeling, a consciousness of that mental eman-
OF DREA!\11:'\G. 21 3
cipation which devout philosophers have more than
glanced at?
. InA. Although you have again rather run wild, As-
trophel, I agree with you in thinking that, under this
influence, the dream may be an illustration of Plato's
notion, regarding the existence of eternal forms, inde-
pendent of matter,-an emanation of the divine mind
imparted to that of human beings ; that innate idea, if
you will, by which the mind views at large-
"The uncreated images of things."
And I therefore revere the opinion of Sir Thomas
Brown, the ingenious author of the " Religio :Medici,"
(with whom believed Sir Henry Wotton, Bossuet, and
other good men,) " That we are somewhat more than
ourselves in our sleeps, and the slumber of the body
seems to be but the waking of the soul. It is the lega-
tion of sense, but the liberty of reason ; and our waking
conceptions do not. match the fancies of our sleeps."
And also the sentiment of Addison, that" there seems
something in this consideration, that intimates to us a
natural grandeur and perfection of the soul."
CAsT. In your temple of transcendental philosophy
you will leave a niche for Shakspere, dearest Ida, who,
even in one of his lightest characters, forgets not this
perfection of our emancipated spirit. Lorenzo whispers
to the fair Jewess, in the garden at Belmont-
"Sit, Jessica. Look how the floor of heav'n
Is thick inlaid with patines of bright gold !
There's not the smallest orb which thou behold'st,
But in his motion, like an angel sings,
Still quiring to the young-ey'd cherubims.
Such harmony is in immortal souls ;
But, whilst this muddy vestm·e of decay
Doth grossly close it in, we cannot heat• it."
PROPHECY OF DREA~1S.
" I have heard, the spirits of the dead
May walk again : if such things be, thy mother
Appeared to me last night ; for ne'er was dream
So like a wuking." '\YrsTER'!S TAL>
AsTR. Evelyn, you have argued fluently on the nature
of mind contrasted with that of matter; but, if desired
to define it, how will you answer?
Ev. That it is a combination of faculties, and their
sympathy with the senses. But this definition presumes
not to decide in what intimate part or texture of the
brain is seated the essence itself, as we may imagine, of
the mind-the principle of consciousness; whether this
be the" elementary principle" of Stewart, or the "mo-
mentary impression of sense or sensation" of Brown, or
the " something differing from sensation" of Reid, or
the "power of feeling that we differ from the matter
around us" of some one else.
AsTR. Yet on this point, (if, indeed, such point be
more than imaginary,) the whole phenomena of intellect
must turn. But even if you can ever hope to deter-
mine this locality, it will be long, very long, ere the
student of psychology will rise from his studies, with
the triumphant exclamation, "TEAo{.' !".ere he conclude
PltOPUECY OF Vlt:EX:\ts. :H5
his deepest researches, without the humiliating couf(:s~,
sion that his philosophy wears fetters.
Yet you consider our visions as one tissue of morbid
phenomena ; although there arc myriads even of pro-
fane visions and warning legends, which bear the certain
impress of a prophecy. I never listen to those who laugh
at our interpretations, without remembering that me-
lancholy story of a youth of Brescia, by Boccaccio,
where Andreana, I think, is relating to her betrothed
Gabricllo, an ominous dream of the stars, and of a sha-
dowy demon, which had made her sad and spiritless,
and for which she had exiled her lover for a whole night
from her bosom. The youth smiled in scorn of such
a presage; but, in relating a dream of his own to illus-
trate their fallacy, fell dead from her enfolding arms.
For once I will grant you, merely for the sake of
argument, that there may be exaggeration in many a
legend. I will even yield to your immolation the host
of specious dreams in "\Vanley's \Vonders ;" you may
pass your anathema on the volumes of Glanville, and
l\Ioreton, and Aubrey, and l\1athcr, and Berthogge, and
Beaumont, as a tissue of imposture; call them, if yon
will-
" A prophet's or a poct'r.> dream,
The pt-iestcraft of a l~-ing world."
I will ensconce. myself snugly behind the classic shields,
and ask you if the pages of Pliny, of Cicero, of Socrates,
are mere legends of fiction or credulity; nay, if the
books of mythology and oriental legends are not many
of them founded on real events?
It is clear that,there was ever implicit and extensive
faith in the East; the definition of ov Hpw, I .peak
tlte trutlt, implies faith in a dream. The office of
the oncirocritic was a profession. Amphyction was
the first (according to Pliny) of the profime expositors,
216 PROPHECY OF DREAMS.
Hieronymus the most profuse interpreter, and Lysima-
chus, the grandson of Aristides, expounded dreams, for
money, at the corners of the streets of Athens. The
doors of Junianus Majus, the tutor of Sanagorius, and
Alexander ab Alexandra, were besieged with dreamers
in quest of expositions.
The Romans worshipped with divine honours Brizo,
the goddess of dreams ; and the Galeotre, so named from
Galei, a Hebrew word signifying to reveal, flourished in
Sicily. So impressed were the Jews with the import-
ance of the dream, that they convoked a tryad of
friends, and went through certai~ ceremonies, (as ·writes
Josephus in his twelfth book,) which they called the
benefaction of a dream.
The orientals, the Greeks, and the· Romans, then,
were all confident in the truth of these omens. '\Vhen
Nestor urges his army to battle because Agamemnon
had dreamed of such a course, it is but a pictu're of the
common mind of Greece. Indeed, on great emergencies,
it was the custom to solicit th~ inspiration of the dream,
by ·first performing religious rites, and then in the
temple, (it may be of Esculapius or Serapis,) to lie
down on. the reeking skins of oxen or goats, sacrificed
by the. priests.
I may not hope, Evelyn, to convert or alann you, or
I would warn you of the penalty incurred by the slight-
ing of a vision. You may read in Livy, that Jupiter
imparted his displeasure at the punishment of a slave,
during a solemn procession in the forum to Titus An-
tinius. But Titus scorned the vision ; when, lo ! his
son was struck dead at his feet, and his own limbs were
at once paralyzed. In a mood of penitence, he was
borne on a couch to the senate, and after a public con-
fession of his crime, his limbs immediately began to
recover their energy, and he walked to his house un-
assisted, amidst the wonder of the peop~e.
PROPHECY 01<' DREA llS. 2 17
In Cicero's essay on "Divination," we read the
story of two Arcadian travellers. On their arrival at
l\Iegara, these two friends slept in different houses. In
the night a dream came to one -
of them: the phantom
of his companion appeared to him, and imparted to him
that his landlord was about to murder him. He awoke,
and feeling assured that the idea was but a dream, fell
quietly again to sleep; but then came over him a second
dream,.and again the phantom was in his chamber, and
told him that the deed of blood was committed, that he
was murdered : and in the morning he learned that the
vision was prophetic, and told him truth.
But the records of antiquity teem with tales of fatal
prognostics to heroes, kings, and emperors, whose
deaths, indeed, seldom took place without a prophecy.
From Aristotle we learn that the death of Alexander
was foretold in a dream of Eudemius, and that ofCresar
by his wife Calphurnia. The emperor :Marius dreamed
that he saw Attila's bow broken, and the Hun king
died on the same night. And Sylla (according to Ap-
pian) died on the night succeeding that on which he
dreamed of such a fate.
Valerius l\faximus records the death of Caius Grac-
chus, immediately after a dream of it by his mother.
Caracalla (as we learn from Dion Cassius) foretold his
own assassination in a dream.
Cyrus (writes Xenophon) dreamed of the exact mo-
ment in which he died.
And the death of Socrates was foretold to him in a
dream, by a white lady, who quoted to him the 363rd
line of Homer, in the ninth book.
Of remarkable events there are many strange fore-
bodings; as the dream of Judas l\faccabeus when about
to engage the Syrian army; of Sylla before his (~ngagc­
ment with l\fm·ius; of Germanicns on the night bcfixe
his victory oYer Arminius (as Tacitus records) ; and of
218 PROPHECY 01<, DREA.:\18.
Masilienus, the general sent by the emperor Honorius
to oppose Gildo, and regain the possession of Mrica.
To him St. Ambrose, the late bishop of :Milan, appeared
in a dream, and striking the ground at the scene of the
vision thrice with his crozier, said, " Here and in this
place;" and on the same spot, tbe following morning,
Gildo was conquered by Nlasilienus. Such are a few of
the fatal prophecies of old.
There are others of ilhistrious births in the olden
time, of which I will recount a few.
Plutarch writes of the dream.of Agariste, announcing
the birth of her son Pericles.
Sabellus, . of the dream of Accia, the mother of
Augustus.
The splendid impostures, as I confess them, of ~fa­
hornet, were ushered in by a dream of Cadiga, that the
sun entered her house, and that his beams jllumined
every building in ~1ecca.
In later days, the mother o( Joan of Arc dreamed that
she brought forth a thunderbolt ; and Arlotte, the mother
of the Conqueror, that her intestines covered the whole
land of Normandy.
But I. waive a host of ancient dreams, as those of
Astyages, the last king of ~fedia; Ertercules, and An-
tigonus, and Simonides, and others, for I study to be
brief, and pass to the professors of more modern belief.
Of Pascal Paoli, Boswell, in his account of Corsica,
thus writes :
"Having asked him one day, when some of his nobles
were present, whether a mind so active as his was em-
ployed even in sleep, and if he used to dream much ;
Signor Casa Bianca said, with an air and tone which
implied something of importance, ' Si, si sogna,' Yes,
he dreams. And upon my asking him to explain his
meaning, he told me that the general had often seen in
his dreams what afterwards came to pass. Paoli con-
PUOPIIECY OF' DUEA~IS. 2 19
firmed this by several instances. Said he, ' I can give
you no clear explanation of it,-I only tell you facts.
Sometimes I have been mistaken, but in general these
visions have proved true. I cannot say what may be
the agency of invisible spirits; they certainly must
know more than we do ; and there is nothing absurd in
supposing that God should permit them to communi-
cate their knowledge to us.'"
In '\Valton's life of Sir Henry 'Yotton, we read that his
kinsmen, Nicholas and Thomas 'Votton (whose family,
by -the by, were celebrated for their dreamings) had
foretold their death most accurately.
In the beginning of the 18th century, a person in the
west of England dreamed that his friend was on a
journey with two men, whose persons were strongly
pictured in his dream, and that he was robbed and mur-
dered by these coll!panions. It chanced that in a short
time he was about to journey with two men, the t:ery
prototypes of his friend's dream. His earnest caution
against this expedition so planned was slighted, and, on
the spot marked in the dream, was this traveller robbed
and murdered, and by the vivid description of the
dreamer, the two men were identified and executed.
In other cases, the dream has been the means of re-
tribution; for instance, by the discovery of a murderer.
In " Baker's Chronicle" we read of the conviction of
Anne 'Vaters, for the murder of her husband, through
the circumstantial dream of a friend.
I believe the fate of Corder was decided by a dream ;
and I may add, that Archbishop Laud dreamed himself
that in his greatest pomp he should sink down to
h-11.
There is a chain of impressive visions, prophetie of
the death of Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, as if-some
little spirit were flitting to and fro on a special mi~sion
from the realm of shadows.
220 PROPHECY OF DREAMS.
The sister of the duke, the Countess of Denbigh,
dreamed she was with him in his coach, when the people
gave a loud shout, and she was told it was a cry of joy
at the dangerous illness of the duke. She had scarcely
related her dream to one of her ladies, when the bishop
of Ely came to tell her, her brother was murdered by
the dagger of Felton. Shortly before this, a Scotch no-
bleman asked a seer from the Highlands what he
thought of this Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, then the
court favourite : " He will come to naught," said he,
" for I see a. dagger in his heart."
But the most impressive presage were the visions of
an officer of the wardrobe to the king, as related by the
Earl of Clar~ndon and others. Parker had been an old
protege of Sir George Villiers, the duke's father. On
a certain night, in "\<Vindsor Castle, he saw, or dreamed
of, an apparition of Sir George Villiers, who _entreated
him to warn his son not to follow the-counsels of such
and such persons, and to avert in every way the enmity
of the people, as he valued his life. A second and a
third night this vision was repeated, and at the last, the
phantom drew a dagger from his gown, and said, "This
will end my son, and do you, Parker, prepare for death."
On a hunting morning this vision was imparted to
Buckingham, at Lambeth Bridge, and, after·the chase,
the duke was seen to ride, in a pensive mood, to his
mother's in Whitehall. The lady, at his departure, was
found in an agony of tears, and when the story of the
murder was told, she listened with an apathetic calm-
ness, as if the brooding over the prophecy had half
dulled her heart to the reality. Well, the duke was
murdered, and Parker soon after died.
On that night when the Treasury of Oxford was
broken open, Sir Thomas Wotton, then in Kent,
dreamed circumstantially of the event, and, I believe,
named and described the burglars.
PROPHECY OF, DRF..\ll8. 221
A clergyman, whose name I forget, was once travel-
ling far from his home, when he dreamed his house was
on· fire. He returned, and found his house a smoking
rnm.
I may here cite a very curious dreaming, which,
though not exactly fulfilled, displayed at least a strange
coincidence in three minds. The mother of :Mr. Joseph
Taylor dreamed of the apparition of her son, who came
to take )eave as he was going a long journey. She
started, and said, "Dear son, thou art dead." On the
morrow, a letter came from his father, expressive of
anxiety on account of this dream. The son instantly
remembered his own dream, at the same hour, of hav-
ing gone to his mother's room to bid farewell.
There are many warning visions, which, being hap-
pily regarded, were blessed by the preservation of
human life.
'Vhen our own. Harvey was passing through Dover,
on his continental travels, he was unexpectedly detained
for. a night by the order of the governor. On the next
day, news came that the packet, in which Harvey was
to have sailed, was lost in a storm; and then it came
out, that his excellency had, on the night before his
arrival, a phantom of the doctor passing before him,
which besought him to detain lli3 substance in Dover
for a day.
Alderman Clay, of Newark, dreamed twice that his
house was on fire. From the second dream, he was
induced to quit with his family ; and, soon afterwards,
it was burned by the engines of Cromwell, which were
bombarding the town. For this providential salvation,
an annual sermon is preached, and bread given to the
poor, in Newark.
The lady of :Major Griffiths dreamed thrice o{ her
nephew, ~fr. D. The first vision imparted his inten-
tion ofjoining a party of his companions on a fishing
222 PROPHECY OF DREAMS.
excursion ; the second, that his boat was sinking; the
third, that it was actually sunk. At her entreaty, this
gentleman was induced to remain on land; and, in the
evening, it was learned, that his ill-fated friends had
been all drov~'lled, by the swamping of the boat. .
CAsT. I pr'ythee, Astrophel, draw not too largely on
our faith; reserve yourself for a struggle, for I sec in
the glance of Evelyn's eye, that he has taken up your
glove.
.MORAL CAUSER OF DH.EA:VIING.
" 1 have ha<t a dream, past the wit of man to say what dream it wu;; Man
is but an ass, if he go about to expound this dream."
MIDSUMMJo:R NIGIIT'il DRJo:All!.
Ev. Listen,-it is my turn to speak.
Like confirmed insanity, the essence of the dream is
usually a want of balance between tlte representative
faculty and tlte judgment; being produced, directly or
indirectly, by the excitement of a chain of ideas, rational
or probable in parts, but rendered in different degrees
extravagant, or illusive, by imperfect association,-as
in the dream of the "Opium Eater:"-" The ladies of
Charles I.'s age danced and looked as lovely as the
court of George IV.; yet I knew, even in my dream,
that they had been in the grave for nearly two cen-
turies."
The relative complexity ofthese combinations includes
the two divisions of dreams,-the plain, 0Ewpf1Jlaruwt;
and the allegorical, or images presented in their own
form, or by similitude.
If we grant that certain faculties or functions of the
mind are the result of nervous influence, we can as
readily allmv that an imperfection of these manifestations
shall be the result of derangement of equilibrium in this
224 ~!ORAL CAUSES 01<' DREA:\UXG.
influence, as the material function of muscle shall be
disturbed by primary or secondary disease about the
brain ; of which we have daily examples among the
spasmodic and nervous diseases of the body.
Referring to the calculation of Cabanis, on the falling
to sleep of the senses, I can readily carry on this ana-
logy to the faculties of mind. We may suppose that
the faculty of judgment, as being the most important,
is the first to feel fatigue, and to be influenced in the
mode which I have alluded to by slumber. It is evi-
dent, then, that the other faculties, which are still
awake, will be uncontrolled, and an imperfect association
will be the result.
Thus the ideas of a dream may be considered as a
species of delirium ; for the figures and situations of
both are often of the most heterogeneous description,
and both are ever illusive, being believed to be realities,
and not being subject to the control of our intellect.
Yet, if the most absurd drearp be analyzed, its consti-
tuent parts may consist either of ideas, in themselves
not irrational, or of sensations or incidents which have
been individually felt or witnessed.
So the remembered. faces and forms of our absent
friends, faithful though a part of the likeness may be,
are associated with the grossest absurdity.
" Velut regri somnia, vanre
Fingentur species, ut nee pes nee caput uni
Reddatur formre."
Or, as Dryden has written,-
" Dreams are but interludes which Fancy makes:
When monarch Reason sleeps, this mimic wakes ;
Compounds a medley of disjointed things,
A mob of cobblers, and a court of kings.
Light fumes are merry, grosser fumes are sad,
Both are the reasonable soul run mad ;
And many monstrous forms in sleep we see,
That neither were, nor are, nor e'er can b~."
liORAL CAV'SI:o:s t_
)F UREA:\ID/G. 225
The little variations in the tis~ue of a dream are not
rectified by judgment. So the vision may have led us
to the very consummation of the highest hopes with
love and beauty, and then, if an object even of degrada-
tion or deformity shall cross the dream, an association
shall be formed imparting a feeling of loathing and
horror.
You may take Hobbes' illustration, Astrophel, which
you will probably prefer to mine. Hobbes says of the
compositions of phantoms, ""rater when moved at once
by divers movements, receiveth one motion compounded
of them all; so it is in the brain, or spirits stirred by
divers objects; there is composed an imagination of
divers conceptions that appeared single to the sense ; as
sense at one time showeth the figure of a mountain, at
another of gold, and the imagination aften vards com-
poses them into a golden mountain."
I believe Parkhurst also will tell you, that the He-
brew word for dream, refers to things erroneou.sly riewed
by the senses; for each may assume, individually, an
intimate accordance with another, although the first
and last appear perfectly incongruous, 3...."- the Chinese
puzzle will be a chaos, if its pieces he wrongly placed;
a faulty rejoining, in fact, of scenes and objects reduced
to their constituent elements.
" I dreamed once," said Professor :Maass, of Halle,
"that the pope visited me. He commanded me to
open my desk, and he carefully,examined all the papers
it contained. 1Yhile he was thus employed, a very
sparkling diamond fell out of his triple crmn1 into my
desk, of which, however, neither of us took any notice.
As soon as the pope had withdrawn, I retired to bed,
but was soon obliged to rise on account of a thick
smoke, the cause of which I had yet to learn. t ·pon
examination, I discovered that the diamond had set fire
to the papers in my desk, and burnt them to ashes.''
Q
22u :\lORA L CA esES OF' DREA~ll:" G.
This dream deserYes a short analysis, on account of
the peculiar circumstances which occasioned it. " On
the preceding eYening," continues Professor :Maass, " I
was visited by a friend, with whom I had a lively con-
'rersation upon Joseph H.'s suppression of monasteries
and convents. 'Vith this idea, though I did not become
conscious of it in the dream, was associated the '\jsit
which the pope publicly paid the emperor Joseph at
Vienna, in consequence of the measures taken against
the clergy; and, with this again was combined, how-
ever faintly, the representation of the visit which had
been paid me by my friend. These two events were by
the subreasoning faculty compounded into one, accord-
ing to the established rule-that things which agree in
their parts, also correspond as to the whole; hence the
pope's visit was changed into a visit paid to me. The
subreasoning faculty, then, in order to account for this
extraordinary visit, fixed upon that which was the most
important object in my room, namely, the desk, or
rather the papers it contained. That a diamond fell
out of the triple crown, was a collateral association,
which was owing merely to the representation of the
desk. Some days before, when opening the desk, I
had broken the glass of my watch, which I held in my
hand, and the fragments fell among the papers; hence •
no farther attention was paid to the diamond, being a
representation of a collateral series of things. But
afterwards, the representation of the sparkling stone
was again excited, and became the prevailing idea;
hence it determined the succeeding association. On
account of its similarity, it excited the representation of
fire, with which .it was confounded; hence arose fire
and smoke. But, in the event, the writings only were
burnt, not the desk itself, to which, being of compara-
tively less value, the attention was not at all directed."
Impressions of memory may not perhaps appear con-
~lORA I... CA l.'SES 01'" DREAlJI,_G. 127
sistent with imagination, but, on the principle I have
advanced, it will be found that, although the idea ex-
cited by memory be consistent, these ideas may, by
fanciful association, become imagination ; appearing, on
superficial view, to illustrate the doctrine of innate idea.
But is this doctrine proved? 'Ve may seem to imagine
that which we do not remember, as a whole,· but, as a
curve is made up of right lines,--as a mass is composed
of an, infinity of atoms,-~so may it follow, that what
is termed "innate idea," if minutely divided, may be
proved to arise from memory; made up of things,
however minute, which we have seen or heard of. Ana-
lysis may thus unravel many a "strange mysterious
dream."
InA. I have ever believed that there were incidents
recorded, which left no doubt of the truth of innate
idealism. Dr. Beattie has observed: "~len born blind,
or who have lost all remembrance of light and colours,
are as capable of invention, and dream as frequently, as
those who see."
Ev. These, fair lady, are surely very imperfect data.
If a person loses remembrance of indi1Jidual colour, he
does not lose the power of comparing or of judging
variety of colour. And, again, although he may be
congenitally blind, yet if there be any other sense but
sight, through which the mind can perceive or receive
external impression, the objection must fail.
There are very strange communities of the senses,
which you may smile at, yet are they perfectly true.
Dr. Blacklock, (who was very early in life struck
blind,) expressed his ideas of colour, by referring to a
peculiar sound, the two being as it were synonymous to
him. And he fancied also, in his dreaming, that he was
connected to other bodies by myriads of threads _or rays
of feeling.
I may assure you, too, that on the loss of any one
Q2
228 :\IORAL C.ACSES OF DREA:\IIXG.
sense, the subsequent dreams, after a lapse of time, will
not be referred to that sense.
Dr. Darwin will supply you with very illustrative in-
stances of this ; from which you will learn, that after
blindness had afflicted certain persons, they never
dreamed that they saw objects in their sleep : and a
deaf gentleman, who had talked with his fingers for
thirty years, invariably dreamed also of finger-speaking,
and never alluded to any dreaming of friends having
orally conversed with him.
AsTR. I believe that a black colour was disUoDTeeable
to Cheselden's blind boy, from the moment he saw it.
Ev. Because, from certain laws of refraction, the
effect was instantly painful to his eye.
AsTR. I remember, Sir 'Valter Scott, in his "Letters
on Demonology and 'Vitchcraft," informs us that "those
experienced in the education of the deaf and dumb find
that their pupils, even cut off from all instruCtion by
ordinary means, have been able to form, out of their
own unassisted conjectures, some ideas of the existence
of a Deity, and of the distinction between the soul and
body."
Ev. An~l do you not see, dear Astrophel, the dilemma
of this argument? Before the deaf and dumb pupil
can adopt a language, by which to make his preceptor
sensible of his thoughts or sentiments, he must have
had certain facts or knowledge imparted to him, by signs
or other modes of instruction. The modes of mutual
understanding must first emanate from the tutor, and
with these ideas may be excited, which, at first sight,
may seem to be innate or unassisted.
Believe not that I deny a moral consciousness of the
existence of the Deity and of our immortality; but
how can we prove it, in those who have no sense to
explain it?
If it were possible to find a creature so '\Tetchcd as to
liORAL C.Ann.;s OP DltEAlll:-\0, 229
be endued with no external sense from his birth, such a
being would neither dream nor think ; he would lead the
life almost of a zoophyte, ceasing, of course, to be a re-
sponsible agent!
Caspar Hauser never dreamed, till he slept at Pro-
fessor Daunay's, and had been introduced to intellectual
society, and been taught ; and then, even, he could not
comprehend the nature of his dreams.
The arguments in the "Phredo" of Plato point to this
truth, that the gerrn of all ideas is sown in the mind by
the senses. So, also, the metaphysics of Kant teach
that the senses are feelers or conductors, by which we
obtain materials of our knowledge ; and indeed that
matter and sensation arc synonymous; that matter ex-
ists apriori in the mind. This was the belief of Cole-
ridge, that there can be nothing fancied in our dreams,
without an antecedent quasi cau.~e, a Roman having
written, before him, the same sentiment :-
"Nihil in ·intdla:tu, quod non prius in semtu."
Remember still that this philosophy is apart from
revelation.
I am aware that among the deaf and dumb high
moral sentiments may exist. But if they can read
essays, these sentiments may be imbibed in their read-
ing. And yet a very learned lord has asserted, that a
being, doomed to absolute solitude and estrangement
from his very birth, could discover the principles of
algebra ! At this sophism, oh shade of Epictctus ! thou
mightest rise, to vindicate the importance of our beauti-
ful senses; of the eye, beyond all, that achromatic globe
of brightest crystal, the contemplation of which first
convinced thee of design in the Creator, and prompted
thee to pen the first " Bridgewater Treatise." ·
On the opening, or even the restoration of a sense,
in this forlorn " plant animal," all his associations
230 MORAL CAUSES OF DREAMING.
would be erroneous. He would, at first, see double;
he would, like children, consider all bodies, however
distant, within his grasp; and, like the idiot, draw all
his figures topsy-turvy, as they are really painted on the
retina, until judgment and practice rectified his error.
I do not reason hypothetically, for these truths were
illustrated in the youth whose pupils were opened by
the operation of Cheselden.
There are romantic stories, not foreign to this subject,
in which the creation of a Caliban is almost a truth;
and which exemplify to us the accordance of nature
with habit and circumstance, and· the dearth of mind
when deprived of the light of instruction.
I allude to those unhappy creatures who, with the
form and organs of man, have run wild in the woods,
and fed on husks, and berries, and herded with the
brute. We have. some very curious histories of these
beings, especially in the 17th and 18th centuries. Two
were discovered in the Forest of Lithuania; one in the
Forest of Yuary, in the Pyrenees, by ~f. LeRoy; two
wild girls by a nobleman, near Chalons, in Champagne;
and Peter the ·wild boy, found by the escort of George I.
in the woods of Hertswold, in Hanover. In these cases
disease might have been discovered ; yet the effect of
partial civilization, even in minute points, indicates
some power of acquiring ideas not congenital.
But as to these dreaming flights of the spirit of good
Sir Thomas Brown, I may confess, Astrophel, that you
have some poets and metaphysicians, and even a few
philosophers, on your side. You may read in Plato's
" Phredo," that '' the body is the prison of the soul ;
that the soul, when it came from God, knew all; but,
inclosed in the body, it forgets and learns anew." And
in Seneca:
" Corpus hoc auimi }Jondus est/'
lJORAL GAt:SES 01<' DH.EAlll:\0. 2~11
And in Petronius :
c
- Cum prustrata sopot"'•
t:rget mc,mbra. quic,, d nwns sint' l)Oudere ludit.
'l'his sentiment Addison has very readily adopted;
prating about "the amusements of the soul when she
is disencumbered of her machine," and so forth. And
yet Addison, I remember, thus qualifies his creed:-" I
do not suppose that the soul, in these instances, is en-
tirely loose and unfettered from the body; it is sufficient
if she is not so far sunk and immersed in matter, nor
entangled and perplexed in her operations, with such
motions of blood and spirits, as when she actuates the
machine in its waking hours. 'l'he corporeal union is
slackened enough to give the mind more play," &c.
In this conceit, deficient both in philosophy and
psychology, you perceive the speculator draws in his
horns, and concludes with that which means nothing.
It is, indeed, a mere compromise; an endeavour to ex-
tricate from their perilous dilemma the metaphysical
pathologists who talk so fluently of the diseases of the
immaterial mind, forgetful, it would seem, of this truth
-that which is diseased may die ; a consummation
which would undermine the Christian faith, and blight
the holiest hope of.man-the prospect of immortality.
And yet my Astrophel '"ill lean to the vagaries of our
pseudo-psychologists, who believed the dream to be the
flight of the soul on a visit to other regions; and its ob-
servation of their nature and systems from actual survey.
Of the fruits of this ethereal voyage the dreamer, I pre-
sume, is made conscious when the soul returns to the
brain, its earthly pabulum or home. \Vere this so, it
should enjoy visions of unalloyed beatitude ; and even
were there a limit to its excursions, a thing so ptire and
perfect would select angelic communion only. I do
not aver that such things are not, but that we cannot
232 :\IORAL CAUSES 01.<' DREA:\1Di'G.
know it here. \Ve have no satisfactory remembrance of
cities and temples thus surveyed, more gorgeous than
the waking conceptions of the thousand and one nights;
or the legends of the genii ; no wonders or eccentricities
which eclipse the exploits of Gulliver, Peter \Vilkins,
Friar Bacon, or Baron l\Iunchausen.
Lavater carries out this caprice, by a very fine meta-
physical thought, to illustrate the night-apparition.
That it is their "transportive or imaginative faculty
that causes others to appear to us in our dreams." And
I myself was once gravely told by a ·visionary, that he
dreamed, one night, of a certain old woman; and she
aftenvards told him, that she dreamed she was, on that
very night, in his chamber. So, you perceive, her imago,
or material thought, entered into his mind, and caused
his dream.
Is not this sublime?
Now it is clear that these illusions cannot tend to
advance the dignity of mind.. Nothing can be more
convincing to prove a suspension of judgment. Re-
member that during this life,-the incorporation of
the soul,-we are conscious of it only through the brain.
It is not yet emancipated; and it is an error to think,
because sometimes we have a brilliant vision, that there-
fore, if the body were more inactive, the soul would be
more ethereal.
AsTR. And yet we are assured that Alexander, and
Voltaire, and La Fontaine, and Condillac, and Tartini,
and Franklin, and l\Iackenzie, and Coleridge, were wont
to compose plans of battles, and problems, and poems,
in their dreams, with a degree of vigour and facility,
far exceeding their waking studies.
Ev. This very facility proves that there was associa-
tion from memory, without volition or effort ; the mind
being in a state of re11erie, and the senses quiescent. In
this consists the vivid and delightful visions lighted up
:\IOUAL CAU SE8 (H' DUEA:\IING. 23;l
by our memory in sluni.bcr, especially when there is
darkness and silence, so that there is no perception ; or
when the mind is concentrated, _
and has been reposing,
so that its fancy is a novelty.
But this identifying, by Sir Thomas Brown, of reason
and fancy, is itself a proof of error. The energy of the
first is exercised on data or facts; that of the second, in
mere hypothetic amusement.
It were indeed much better that we established either
the material hypothesis of Priestley, or his antipodes,
Berkeley,-that nature was but a compound of spirits,
ideas unfettered by mat~er ; or the visionary scheme of
Hume (borrowed indeed from the Hindoo philosopher,
Abul Jl.,azel), that there is nought but impression and
idea in nature ; or even the absolute scepticism of
Pyrrho ;-than that we should favour the rhapsody of
Brown, that the consciousness of waking moments
should thus deteriorate reason, and render the mind
incompatible with sublunary duties.
· CAsT. Coleridge, I believe, was so impressed with
his own dreaming compositions, that he said, " the
dullest wight might be a Shakspcre in his dreams."
\Vhat may he deserve for such presumption?
Ev. Coleridge was an opium-eater, and the whole
intellectual life of this mighty metaphysician was a
dream. And you may forget that Coleridge was already
a poet, and reasons thus from impressions in his own
visions, during the elysium of his anodyne. But the
contrasted feelings of Coleridge's nights at once confirm
the monomania of his dreaming; and if you read his
"Pains of Sleep," Castaly, you will not deem them a sligllt
penalty, even for his libel on your sweet Shakspere.
But the conclusions of three sage grave men on this
subject will impress your belief more than mine. 'fhe
mentor of Rasselas, Johnson himself, speaks by the lips
oflmlac.-
234 liORAL CACSES OF DREAlliXG.
" All power of Fancy over Reason is a degree of insa-
nity. By degrees, the reign of Fancy is confirmed;
she grows first imperious, and in time despotic. Then
fictions begin to operate as realities, false opinions fasten
upon the mind, and life passes in dreams of rapture, or
of anguish."
And so convinced was the learned Boerhave of tbis,
that he even held imagination and judgment to have
different localities, because ·this influenced the mind
asleep, and that, awake.
And why, Astrophel, dream .we of strange things?
Because we cannot compare illusion with reality. So
we may reverse the doctrine of Pyrrho (who doubted
his own existence), and imagine ourselves possessed of
ubiquity. '\Ve may fancy we are both old and young
at the same moment, nay, that we are and are not;
possess the hundred eyes of Argus, or the hundred
arms of Briareus ; that Zoroaster, and Virgil, and
Shakspere, and ourselves, are po-existent. Indeed, our
thoughts and actions are all modelled on a principle of
paradox,-as wild even as the visions in the " Con-
fessions of an Opium-Eater."
Then turn to the words of l\larmontel, which identify
the wanderings of a dream with the flitting fancies of a
mind prostrate from the effect of disorder. These words
were written under extreme indisposition :-
" I was reduced so low, that I could read nothing
but the Arabian Nights' Entertainments; and it is ex-
traordinary that often, while every other faculty, judg-
ment, the will, association, perfection, even the memory
itself, is in a state of almost total re-action, this volatile
thing, imagination, should be the most robust and ac-
tive ; it seems to rejoice at the release from companion-
ship with its fellows, and darts off on seraph-wings,
rambles through all space, visits all places, turning, and
tossing, and jostling all things in its progress, or con-
MORAL CAUSES OF' DHEA:\11~0. 235
joining them in the most ·grotesque shapes. The ima-
gination in madmen is often of this description ; and
there may be
"A pleasure in madness, that none but m:ulmC'll know."
Then we may dream ourselves to be otlters,-an ideal
transmigration ; this is error. \Ve wake to a sense of
our own reality ; this is truth.
CAST.. Yet this truth may be often withheld by
potent impression, as in the illusion of Rip Van \Vinkle,
and the trances of Nomjahad. I believe the waking
mind of Caspar Hauser knew not the difference between
dream and reality; he related his dream as fact.
Ev. If there were ever such a being as Caspar
Hauser, his life was a dream; for, without the culture
of his mind, he would be reasonless.
ANACHRONIS.M AND COINCIDENCE OF
DREA~IS.
" Rom. I dreamt a dream to night.
Mere. And so did I.
Rom. Well, what was yours?
_\Jere. That dreamers often lie."
Ro:MEO ~ND JULIET.
AsTR. Then we are to learn that the mind is ever
imperfect in a dream. But, Evelyn, is not that rather
perfection, which magnifies space and time a million-
fold, completing the labours of years in a second ? The
time occupied with the dream must be limited, often far
short of the seeming duration of a scene. Like the
wonderful velocity of atoms of light, the crude and
heterogeneous ideas succeed each other with incalcula-
ble rapidity. 1Ve appear to have travelled over a series
of miles, or to have existed for a series of years, during
a very minute portion of the night,-how minute it is
perhaps impossible to determine. I believe it is the
Opium-Eater, still, who thus confesses :-"I sometimes
seemed to have lived for seventy or a hundred years, in
one night; nay, sometimes, had feelings representative
of a millennium passed in that time,. or however of a
ANACIIROXISll AXD COIXCIDEXCE OF DREi\MS, 23i
duration far beyond the limits of any human expe-
rience."
This may be, as your smile implies, the dream of
opium madness ; but let this dream of Lavalette, also,
prove some truth in my illustration.
'fhe count, during his confinement, had a frightful
dream, which he thus relates: "One night, while I was
asleep, the clock of the Palais de Justicc struck twelve,
and awo.ke me. I heard the gate open to relieve the
sentry, but I fell asleep again immediately. In this
sleep I dreamed that I was standing in the Rue St.
Honore, at the corner of the Rue de l'Echclle. A
melancholy darkness spread around me; all was still.
Nevcrthelcss a low and uncertain sound soon arose.
All of a sudden I perceived, at the bottom of the street,
and advancing towards me, a troop of cavalry ; the men
and horses, however, all flayed. 'J:'he men held torches
in their hands, the flames of which illumined faces with-
out skin, and with bloody muscles. Their hollow ey-es
rol)ed fearfully in their large sockets; their mouths
opened from ear to ear, and helmets of hanging flesh
covered their hideous heads. 1'he horses dragged along
their own skins in the kennels, which overflowed with
blood on both sides. Pale and dishevelled women ap-
peared and disappeared alternately at the windows in
dismal silence ; low inarticulate groans filled the air,
and I remained in the street alone, petrified with horror
and deprived of strength sufficient to seek my safety by
flight. This horrible troop continued passing in rapid
gallop, and casting frightful looks on me. Their march,
I thought, continued for five hours, and they were fol-
lowed by an immense number of artillery waggons, full
of bleeding corpses, whose limbs still quivered. A dis-
gusting smell of blood and bitumen almost choke<J me.
At length the iron gate of the prison, shutting with
great force, awoke me again. I made my repeater strike,
238 AXACHROXIS:\1 AXD COIXCIDENCE
-it was no more than midnight, so that the honible
phantasmagoria had lasted no more than ten minutes ;
that is to say, the time necessary for relieving the sentry
and shutting the gate. The cold was ·severe and the
watchword short. The next day the turnkey confirmed
my calculations. I nevertheless do not remember one
single event in my life, the duration of which I have
been able more exactly to calculate."
CAsT. You are modest, Astrophel. Think of the
wonders of fairyland. Our dainty Ariel will "place a
girdle round the world in forty minutes." And, even
more wonderful still, I have read, in the "Arabian
Tales," of a monarch who immersed his head in a water
bucket, and imagined he had in one minute traversed a
space of infinite extent; and (though perchance I should
crave pardon for any thing Evelyn may term an im-
puted miracle, or imposture, yet) for a moment listen to
that exquisite passage in the "Spectator," which Addi-
son pretends to have gathered from the Koran, although
I believe there is in that book no such story. "The
angel Gabriel took ~Iahomet out of his bed one morn-
ing to give him a sight of all things in the seven heavens,
in paradise, and in hell, which the prophet took a dis-
tinct view of, and after having held ninety thousand
conferences with God, was brought back again to his
bed. All this was transacted in so small a space of
time that ~Iahomet, at his return, found his bed still
warm, and took up an earthen pitcher, which ·was thrown
down at the very instant that the angel Gabriel carried
him away, before the water 'Was all spilt."
Ev. If all the circumstances of these dreams were
rational, I might agree with you, Astrophel ; but the
ideas are irrational which so far outstrip the facts of our
experience; except in their estimation who, like the
Hibernian, would value their watch because it went
faster than tile sun. Now the extent of velocity in the
239
ideas of insane minds is equally extreme; and, when
these anachronisms occur in dreams, the ideas are, I
believe, ever false. Deeply interesting, however, are
tales of such curiosities of dreaming, as those which the
two Scottish physicians, Abercrombie and Gregory,
have recorded.
"A gentleman dreamed that he had enlisted as a
soldier; that he had joined his regiment; that he had
deserted; was apprehended and carried back to his
regiment : that he was tried by the court-martial, con-
demned to be shot, and was led out for execution. At
the moment of the completion of these ceremonies, the
guns of the platoon were fired, and at the report he
awoke. It was clear that a loud noise, in the adjoining
room, had both produced the dream and, almost at the
moment, awoke the dreamer."
There was another gentleman who for some time,
after sleeping in the damp, suffered a sense of suffoca-
tion when slumbering in a recumbent position; and a
dream would then come over him, as of a skeleton which
grasped hiLl firmly by the throat. This dream became
at length so distressing, that sleep was to him no bless-
ing, but a state of torture ; and he had a centinel posted
by his couch, with orders to awake his master when
slumber seemed to be stealing o'er him. One night, ere
he was awakened, he was attacked by the skeleton, and
a long and severe conflict ensued. \Vhen fully awake,
he remonstrated with the watcher for allowing him to
remain so long in his dream, and, to his astonishment,
learned that his dream had been momentary, and that
he was awoke on the instant that he had begun to
slumber.
But granting your notions of dreaming perfections,
Astrophel, there are, to a certain extent, even _here,
analogies. You forget that in our waking moments our
ideas are often so fleet as to be profitless to our judg-
6
240 A~ACHROXIS:\1 AXD COINCIDEXCE
ment; and why not in a dream? In the estimation of
distance, with what velocity the train of reasoning passes
through the mind! Ere we have formed our notions of
an object, how instantaneous our reflections on all its
qualities-its brilliancy of colour, its apparent magni-
tude, its form, &c., and the angle of inclination in
regard to the axis of the eye; and our conclusions_
(for
judgment is awake) are echoes of the truth. But in the
dream is it so? No. lVe get the idea (as ~1r. Locke
has written) of time or duration by reflecting on that
train of ideas which succeed each other in the mind.
In waking hours the judgment clearly regulates this ;
but in dreams this course of reflection is impeded, and
the measurement of time is imperfect and erroneous, so
that it is the common characteristic of a dream, that
there is no idea of time; the past and the future are
equally present.
Start not, if to strengthen this my illustration, I
lead you again into the mad-house; again unconsciously
combine a dream with insanity, in quoting these ex-
pressions of the Rev. Robert Hall (from "Green's
Reminiscences"), in allusion to his first attack of mania.
"All my imagination has been overstretched. You,
with the rest of my friends, tell me that I was only
seven weeks in confinement, and the date of the year
corresponds, so that I am bound to believe you, but
they have appeared to me like seven years. ~Iy mind
was so excited, and my imagination so lively and active,
that more ideas passed through my mind during those
seven weeks than in any seven years of my life. 'Vhat-
ever I had obtained from reading or reflection was
present to me."
InA. The apparent anachronism of such dreams, Eve-
lyn, refers to imperfect function. Yet he ·will remember
we are reasoning as finite beings. True, ~Ialebranchc has
asserted, that "it is possible some creatures may think
OF DH.EAMS. 241
half an hour as long as we do a thousand years, or look
upon that space of duration which we eall a minute, as
an hour, a week, a month, or a whole age. But in re-
gard to the prospect of futurity, ·or a more perfect state,
who of us ean decide that this seeming illusion is not
one evidence of the divine nature of mind ; a remote
resemblance, if I may presume so to say, of one attri-
bute of the Creator, to whom a thousand years are as
one day?"
I have learned from your own theory, Evelyn, that
mind is either imperfect or passive in the dream. Docs
not this passive condition itself imply inspiration? For
is not that, in which are produced results, while itself is
inactive, under the special influence of some high power,
as were the visions of the holy records ?
Although I may not yield my entire belief in the
fallacy of modem inspiration because it is not prm:ed,
yet I have not listened to your learning, Evelyn, with-
out some leaning to the apparent truth of your disser-
tations. I might hesitate to confess myself your pupil ;
still, the incidents you have adduced will make me pause,
ere I again blend profane arguments with the truths of
holy writ. Yet I cannot yield the feeling, that the
dream is an emblem, at least, of immortality.
As a beautiful illustration of such philosophy, I re-
member (in Fulgosius) a legend told by Saint Austin
to Enodius :-
There was a physician of Carthage, who was a
sceptic regarding immortality and the soul's separate
existence. It chanced one night that Genadius dreamt
of a beautiful city. On the second night, the youth
who had been his guide reappeared, and asked if Gena-
dius remembered him; he answered, yes, and also his
dream. 'And where,' said the apparition, 'were.. you
then lying?' 'In my bed, sleeping.' 'And if your
mind's eye, Genadius~ surveyed a eity, even while your
R
242 ANACHRONISli AND COINCIDEXCE
body slept, may not this pure and active spirit still live,
and observe, and remember, even·though the body may
be shapeless or decayed within its sepulchre?'
The dreams of Scripture, those "thoughts from the
visions of night, when deep sleep came upon men,"
were associated with the mission of an angel, or imme-
diate communion with the Deity. For He has said, in
the twelfth of Numbers, that he would "speak to his
prophets in a dream:" from·the first and self-interpret-
ing dream of Abimelech, the visions interpreted by the
inspired propounder Joseph, the_ first dream of the New
Testament, the fulfilment of the .Annunciation, the im-
pressive trance of Peter, in coincidence ·with the visions
of the centurion, even to the holy visions of the Apoca-
lypse.
Indeed, the surpassing evidence and truth in all, but
especially in the inspired interpretation of Joseph of
the dream of Pharaoh, and those of the still ·more in-
spired oneirocritic, Daniel, cannot be compared with
aught profane. '
The prophet not only expounded, but reminded Ne-
buchadnezzar of his dream, when he himself had for-
gotten it. This was the result of special prayer to the
Deity ; and, remember, without this, the Chaldeans
failed in their efforts. Even Josephus informs us, that
Daniel "foretold good things and pleased, so that he
was deemed divine." And you have read, that Saul
also prayed for a dream, but HE dreamt not, because he
was not holy. And there are holy precepts regarding
dreams, which are, recorded to curb our superstitious
reliance on all. We have assurances of true dreamers
in the first chapter of Matthew, the second of the Acts,
in Deuteronomy, and the thirty-fourth of Ecclesiasticus;
the language of the son of Sirach was, that " common
dreams only serve to lift ~p fools." 'Vith these reser-
vations, I do believe that the real inspi.ration of a spirit
<H' DllEAllS.
is the gift only of the holy and the good ; so that the
presumption of divination and prophecy by profane
dreamers is an illusion ; yet, I acknowledge with John
'Vesley, that many have been converted by a dreaming
conscience; as we read of impressive dreams, which
have effected the conversion of others by the mere re-
cital. 'Vilmot, Earl of Rochester, was a sceptic ; but,
as we are informed by Burnet in his "Life and Death,"
his mind was first led to the conviction of an immaterial
spirit, by the prophetic dream of his mother, the Lady
de Ia \Varre, foreboding truly his own death.
And I must ever admire the moral wisdom of Zeno,
which (according to Plutarch) induced him to regard a
dream as the test of virtue ; for, if in his dream his
heart did not recoil from vicious suggestions, there was
an immediate necessity of self-examination and repent-
ance. I cannot forbear adding, that there is much
wisdom in the estimation of his vision, by one of the
shepherd kings of Egypt, Sabaco. He dreamed that
t~e tutelary deity of Thebes enjoined him to kill the
priests of Egypt, and, for this unmerciful injunction
from the gods, that they deemed !tim unfit for the throne,
he went into self-exile, to .~Ethiopia.
Ev. The conclusions of these moralists from dream-
ing impressions were somewhat straightlaced: yet your
reflections, Ida, point to the safest mode by which we
may reconcile the conflict of the divine and the physio-
logist, and, above all, evince our devotion to the Creator ;
namely, to argue on creation as we see it, and on revela-
tion as we see it recorded.
Yet, with a mock solemnity, dreams and apparitions
have been first adduced as proofs of the soul's immor-
tality; and then, in the same argument, are themsehcs
proved by this immortality; the points of the syllQgism
are reversed, and we have petitio principii, a begging of
the question.
R2
244 .A:.l.ACHRONIS:\1 A~D COI~CIDE~CE
This hypothesis of dreaming has formed the basis of
certain religious impostures. Among others~ of Dubri-
cius and Comedius; and, above all, the fanatical visions
of Emanuel Swedenborg, who founded his especial sect,
by the declaration of having visited Paradise.
In our analysis of revelation, the conflict of two pow-
erful minds might, on doctrinal points, attack, and· in
the end annihilate, the faith of each, in their struggle
for the victory; which may remind you of the murders
both of Protestants and Papists, especially in Ireland,
resulting from the wild excite~ent of fanaticism and
bigotry; and the persecutions which have, as history
records, sprung from debates on holy subjects. Re-
member the martyrdom of the amiable and beautiful
Anne Ascue, who was burnt at the stake for dis-
senting from the theological tenets of Henry VIII.,
regarding the real presence. On the rack, her silence
was a model of heroism, for she might have impeached
the queen and her ladies; and 'Vriothesly, the chan-
cellor, it is said, in his rage t'o extort the secret, him-
self stretched the wheel, so as almost to tear her body
asunder.
And then the blasphemy of that convocation, sum-
moned in the reign of ~Iary Tudor, to renew the dis-
cussion on that sacred point of transubstantiation,
between the Protestants and the Romanists ;-but I
leave this topic to the mild theologian, who will confess
it would have withheld a stain from the page of history,
had these mock religionists acknowledged, with the
pious Pascal, that "the sublime truths of our religion
and the essence of the immortal spirit are inexplicable
by the deepest research of wisdom, and are unfolded
only by the inspired light of revelation."
Now it was clear that the dreams of the classic poets
were not all truly prophetic; and in accordance with
this arc their delineations of the house of sleep. Indeed
OF DREAMS. 245
we may almost f.'lney, fo'r a moment, that there might
be some reality in these poetical surveyors, until we
reflect that the Roman notions were plagiaries from the
Greeks.
It is true, the locality of this Palace of Somnus, like
the site of Troy, is not a little diversified by Homer and
the rest; but, whether it be Lemnos, or iEthiopia, or
Cimmeria, these are its descriptions :
First, of Homer,-
" Immur'd within the silent buwer of slct•p,
Two portals firm the various phantoms keep :
Of iv'ry one, whence flit, to mock the brain,
Of winged lies a light fantastic train.
The gate oppos'd, pellucid valves adorn,
And columns fair incased with polish'd horn ;
Where images of truth for passage wait,
\Vith visions manifest of future fate."
And Virgil's is a close copy.
In the " City of Dreams," of Lucian, the blasphemer
(whose beauties are stained by their impieties), these
eternal gates are again alluded to. But the dreams in
this city arc all deceivers; for when a mortal enters the
gates, a circle of domestic dreams in a moment unfold
to him a budget of intelligence, which proves to be a
tissue of lies.
Tcrtullian, and many others, have argued the notion
of a special purpose of the Deity in every dream. And
the " New Moral World " of the visionary Owen,
asserts, that " one chief source of our knowledge is
dreams and omens."
In the eras of inspiration, few will be sceptical
enough to doubt the occurrence of divine mediations;
or not to believe, with Socrates, and other sages, in the
divine origin of dreams and omens.
The evidence of Holy Scripture again proves the
2-i G A~ ..:\.CHRO~ISli A~D COI~CIDE);CE
occasion, indeed the necessity, for such communication;
but, in our own time, I deem it little less than profane-
ness, to imagine that the Deity should indicate the
future occurrence of common-place and trivial incidents
through the medium of an organ, confessedly in a state
of imperfection, at the moment when the faculties of
mind are returning from a state of temporary suspe·n-
sion,-a death-like·sleep.
Even John \Vesley believed dreams to be " doubtful
and disputable ;" and adds, with a half-profanation,-
" they rnigld be from God, or might not."
The Emperor Constantine, you know, denounced
death to all who dared to look seriously into the secrets
of futurity.
"\Vhen we reflect that the proportion of events, seem-
ingly the fulfilment of a dream, is to the myriads of
forebodings which never come to pass (as the _dreams
recorded with some solemnity by Herodotus, of Alcibi-
ades ; of Crresus, regarding his son Atys ; of Astyages
and the vine ; of Cambyses, respecting Smerdis ; and of
Hamilcar, at the siege of Syracusa ;) as a drop in the
ocean, the fallacy of the doctrine must be evident. I
marvel much that credulity, in this reflecting age, can
gain a single proselyte.
The magi of Persia and the soothsayers of Greece
and Rome were constantly in error; and Artemidorus
~Iiraldus, who in the reign of Antoninus wrote his
voluminous book "Oneirocriticus," has given us the
most ridiculous interpretations.
"\Vhen the pagan priesthood of old lay down on the
reeking skins of their victims to rouse the inspiration
of their dreams, it was to cheat their proselytes. Such
were the mummeries in the Temple of JEsculapius.
The devotees were first purified by the "lustral water;"
and then divine visions came over them, and priest-
esses in snowy robes, and a venerable priest in the
OF DREA!\18. 247
habit of .lEsculapius, paraded round the altar, and the
charm was complete.
·you may learn from Martin something about the
modern influence of such a charm.
"l\fr. Alexander Cooper, present minister of North-
uist, told me that one John Erach, in the Isle of Lewis,
assured him that it was his fate to have been led by his
curiosity to some who consulted this oracle, and that he
was a night within the hide as above mentioned, during
which time he felt and heard such terrible things that
he could not express them; the impression it made on
him was such as could never go off, and he said for a
thousand worlds he would never again be concerned in
the like performance, for this had disordered him to a
high degree. He confessed it ingenuously and with an
air of great remorse, and seemed to be very penitent
under a just sense of so great a crime : he declared this
about five years since, and is still living in the Lewis
for any thing I know."
.In imitation of this spell for the divine inspiration of
a dream, the modem Franciscans, after the ceremony of
mass, throw themselves on mats already consecrated by
the slumber of some holy visionary, and with all this
foolery, they vaunt the divine inspiration of their dream.
Cicero, and Theophrastus, and many other sages, were
sceptical of these special visitations, and explained ra-
tionally dreams and divinations, as Cicero his dream at
£tina, on his flight from Rome.
Then .there is this anathema of Ennius :-
"Augurs, and soothsayers, astrologers, diviners, and
interpreters of dreams I never consult, and despise
their vain pretence to more than human skill." And
also this caution bequeathed to you by Epictetus:
" Never tell thy dream; for though thou thyself mayest
take a pleasure in telling thy dream, another will take
no pleasure in hearing it."
218 A~ACIIROXISl\1 AXD COI~CIDENCE
AsTR. Epictetus was himself a dreamer in this; for
the story of a dream is ever listened to with interest.
And what would Epictetus think, were I to tell him
that broad lands and mitres have been gained before
now by the shrewd putting of a dream?
Ev. I confess, as in the illusion of phantoms, there
are records of very strange coincidences in dreaming,
which may be startling to many superficial minds.
Pereskius, the friend of Gassiendi, after a severe
fever, in 1609, was engaged in the study of ancient
coins, weights, and measures. One night, he dreamed
he met a goldsmith at Nismes, who offered him a coin of
Julius Cresar for four cardecues. The next day this in-
cident was repeated to him in reality. . But he was a
philosopher, and deemed it, as it was, but a rare coin-
cidence.
There were two sisters, who (as a learned pJ:"tysician
has recorded) were sleeping together during the ill-
ness of their brother. One of,these ladies dreamed that
her watch, an old family relic, had stopped, and, on
waking her sister to tell of this, she was answered by
her thus : "Alas ! I have worse to tell you : our bro-
ther's hreatll, is also stopped." On the following night,
the same dream was repeated to the young lady. On
the morning after this second dream, the lady,·on taking
out the watch, which had been perfect in its movement,
observed that it had indeed stopped, and at the same
moment she heard her sister screaming; the brother,
who had been till then apparently recovering, had just
breathed his last.
These are sequences, and not consequences : and I
might adduce a mass of these mere coincidences, which
have been stretched and warped, to make up ~ pro-
phecy. Such as the following legend of Sergius Galba,
told byFulgosius: "Galba had coquetted with two marble
ladies,-thc Fortune, at Tusculum, and the Capitoline
OF I>ltEA)lS.
Venus; and, to adorn the neck of the first, he had pur-
chased a brilliant diamond necklace. But the charms
of the Venus of the Capitol prevailed over her rival,
and the necklace was at length presented to the goddess
of beauty. At night, the form of Fortune appeared to
him in his sleep, upbraiding him with his falsehood,
and telling him that he should be deprived of all the
gifts she had lavished on him, and Galba, as the story
goes, 800n after died."
But, if dreams arc essentially prophetic, why arc
they not all fulfilled ? and if one is not fulfilled, how
know we if all will not be equally fallacious? The ar-
gument for the prophetic nature is merely aposteriori,
the shallow "post hoc, ergo propter !we," of the sophist.
On the occurrence of any important event, all the
auguries and dreams which bear the slightest semblance
to a prophecy are immediately adduced, and stretched
and warped to suit the superstition; as the whimsical
mother will account for the marks on her child by
frights and longings. "\Vhen we know that myriads of
enthusiasts and hypochondriacs have, by the failure of
their predictions, deserved the stigma of false prophets,
we may surely class these phantasies among the popular
errors of the time.
Yet the fulfilment of a prophecy may he consequence;
and that without the imputation of falsehood or impo-
sition, or of any special interference. (I am not recant-
ing my opinions, Astrophel.)
1st. Through the effect of an imparted impetus.
2nd. Foresight, from the study of events and cha-
racter.
3rcL Constant thinking on one subject.
4th. Impressions of terror or alarm, from spectres,
sybils, &c.
As there are dreams from impressions on the body
during sleep, so are there diseased tissues in the brain,
250 AXACHROXISll AXD COI~CIDEXCE
which light up phantoms of terror and death perfectly
prophetic. But wherefore so? Mereiy because they
are induced by that disease which usually terminates in
death. Such were the dreams during the nightmare
which preceded, and, I believe, still precede, the epi-
demic fevers in Rome, and in those of Leyden, in 1669,
when the patient fell asleep, and was attacked by incubus
before each exacerbation. The impersonation of death
was the prevailing phantom. of their dream, and in
reality death soon followed.
Among those heathen tribes, where superstition and
ignorance form part of a national creed, there is a de-
gree of blindness and inconsistency that may truly be
termed mania. It is the doctrine, not of prophecy, but
of debased and absolute fatalism. The North American
Indians not only regard the dream as prophetic, but
often receive it as a solemn injunction, and a~ them-
selves the active agents in its fulfilment. " In what-
ever manner," says CharlevoL"'(, "the dream is con-
ceived, it is always looked upon as a thing sacred, and
as the most ordinary way in which the gods make known
their will to men. Filled with this idea, they cannot
conceive how we should pay no regard to them. For
the most part they look upon them either as a desire of
the soul, inspired by some genius, or an order from
him, and, in consequence of this principle, they hold it
a religious duty to obey them. An Indian, having
dreamt of the amputation of his finger, had it really cut
off as soon as he awoke, first preparing himself for this
important action by a feast!"
Among more enlightened people there may be an in-
ducement to action from the impression of a dream;
here, also, the consequence is the fulfilment of the pro-
phecy. Such, Astrophel, were the dreams of Arlotte
and Cadiga ; of Judas ~Iaccabreus; of Sylla ; of Ger-
ma.nicus ; and of 1\Iasulcnius ; and th~ dream of the
01<' DRE.\. :\1 8. 25 1
priestess of Proserpine, on the eve of Timoleon's expe-
dition from Corinth to Syracuse, that Ceres volunteered
to be his travelling companion i~to Sicily. The dream
of Olympia, that she was with child of a dragon, might
both have suggested the mode of education, and incited
the warlike spirit of Alexander.
We know that the city of Carthage was rebuilt by
Augustus Cresar, in consequence of the dream of his
uncle Julius.
And we read in the travels of Herbert, that Cangius,
the blacksmith of Mount Taurus, aspired to, and gained
dominion over the Tartars from a similar influence, and
from his name has the title of "Chan" been since con-
ferred on some of the most warlike monarchs of the
East.
There was a dream of Ertercules that was warped, by
Edebales, into the interpretation, that Oman should be
born to him, and become a great conqueror.
I have known the dreams of young ladies often prove
the inducement to their marriage.
I may remind you, too, that even a simple waking
incident will impart this power of action. It is a record
of history, that Robert Bruce slept, during his wander-
ing, in the bam of a cottage. As he was lying, he saw
a spider attempt to climb to the roof; twelve times the
insect failed ere it gained its point. This potent lesson
of perseverance instantly flashed across his mind, and
in a few days was won the field of Bannockburn. Be
sure the seers termed this an omen.
The seduction of Helen was the result of a dream of
1
high promise, made to Paris by the phantom of Venus.
Scott (who was executed at Jedburgh, in 1823, for
murder) confessed that he had dreamed of such a crime
for many years ere its committal.
Of the result of constant dwelling on an interesting
subject, I may add these illustrations.
252 AXACURO~IS:\1 A~D COIXCIDE~CE
Antigonus, King ofMacedonia, anticipated (according
to Plutarch) the flight of his prisoner :Mithridates to the
Euxine.
Of such a nature were the dreams of the Emperor
Julian and of Calphurnia, if indeed these were more
than fable ; and such was the dream of Cromwell,-that
he should be the greatest man in England. In -all
these, and a thousand more, the mere constant thinking
excited the dream. The ambitious thought of Crom-
well was constantly haunting his waking moments,
pointing to personal aggrandisement, and, of conse-
quence, imparted a like character to the dream of his
slumbers. Could we have penetrated the privacy of
Ireton, and Lambert, and other Presbyterian leaders,
we should discover that such ambitious prepossessions
were not confined to the bosom of the Protector.
The grandfather of the poet Goethe, on the death of
an old counsellor at Frankfort, assured his _
wife of his
confident belief, that the gold~n ball, which elected the
vacant counsellor, would be drawn for him. And this
belief arose from a dream ; in which he went in full
costume to court, when the deceased counsellor rose
from his seat and begged him to occupy the chair, and
then went out of the door. Goethe was elected.
And yet divines especially are determined to look
beyond nature for causes, and refer all this to dit'ine
foreknowledge, imparted to the mind of man. There is
a solemn letter, written in 1512, by Cardinal Bembo, to
one of the ~fedici, recounting how he was opposed in a
suit against one Simon Goro, by Giusto, and how his
mother dreamed that Giusto wound.ed him in the right
hand, and besought him not to have altercation with
him. It chanced that Giusto, who, it seems, was some-
what deranged, snatched Bembo's papers from his
hand, and afterwards, by the Rialto, wounded him in
the second finger of the right hand. Npw is not this a
OP nngAMS.
very shallow inciuent? and yet the sapient cardinal
deems it essential to coujh·m !tis tale by a solemn attes-
tation, thus: "The dream of my mother I look upon
as a revelation ; and I declare to you, magnificent lord,
by that veneration which we owe to God himself, that
this recital is the pure and single truth."
The proofs of an apparent prophecy from foresight
may be seen in those, who by reflection have attained
either a worldly or a weather wisdom. The sea captain,
who has looked out upon the sky at night, and has
learned the foreboding signs of a storm, will often dream
of shipwreck; and the politician will dream of events,
as well as predic~te consequences, from an enlightened
reflection on the motives of the human mind, and the
general laws which indeed influence its actions. So that,
with a little latitude, it were easy enough for us all to
construct an almanac column, especially if there be
granted to us a liberal allowance of "more or less about
this time."
Above all, it is our duty to avert the impressions of
evil from the superstitious mind. The apprehension of a
misfortune or fatality may prove its cause. Ay, and if
the intellect were really gifted with prescience, how oft
would the happiness of life be blighted?
The allegory of the tree of knowledge is a practic
precept for our lives.
AsTR. And yet Virgil has thus alluded to the delight
of peeping into futurity :
"Felix qui potuit rerum cognoscere causas."
Ev. I would rather echo the benevolent precept of
Horace, to ensure the bliss of ignorance on this point :
" Tu ne quresicris, scire (nefas) quem mihi, quem tibi,
Finem Dii dederint."
m other words : "Seek not to know the destiny that
awaits us."
254 •
.\NACHRON'IS"!\1 AN'D COIXCIDEXCE
And :Milton's wisdom, too :
" Let no man seek
Henceforth, to be foretold what shall befall
Him or his children : evil, he may be sure,
'Vhich, neither his forekno\\ing can prevent;
And he the future evil shall, as less
In apprehension than as substance, feel
Grievous to bear."
Listen to the melancholy influence of the dream and
death of Glaphyra, as told by Josephus :
" She was married when she. was a virgin to Alex-
ander, the son of Herod, and brother of Archelaus.
but since it fell out so that Alexander was slain by his
father, she was married to J uba,, the King of Lydia ;
and when he was dead, and she lived in widowhood in
Cappadocia with her father, Archelaus divorced his
former wife Mariamne, and married her, so great was
his affection for this Glaphyra, who during her mar-
riage to him saw the following dream :-she thought
she saw Alexander standing by her, at which she re-
joiced and embraced him with great affection, but that
he complained of her, and said to Glaphyra: 'Thou
provest that saying to be true, which assures us that
women are not to be trusted. Didst not thou pledge
thy faith to me? and wast thou not married to me
when thou wast a virgin? and had we not children be-
tween us ? Yet hast thou forgotten the affection I bare
to thee out of a desire for a second husband. Nor hast
thou been satisfied with that injury thou didst me, but
thou hast been so bold as to procure thee a third hus-
band, and hast been married to Archelaus-thy husband
and my brother. However, I will not forget my former
affection for thee, but will set thee free from every such
reproachful action, and cause thee to be mine again as
thou once wast.' 'Vhen she had related this to her
01~ DREAMS. 255
female companions, in a few days' time she departed
this life."
The fatality which coincided with the prophetic warn-
ing of Lord Lyttclton, might well be adduced as another
illustration, were it not for some imputation of suicidal
disposition in that nobleman, which would more forcibly
invalidate the prophetic dignity of his dream.
I may relate another story, not remotely illustrative
of this influence, from Brand's " Popular Antiquities."
-"My friend, the late Captain ~1ott, R.N., used fre-
quently to repeat an anecdote of a seaman under his
command. This individual, who was a good sailor and
a brave man, suffered much trouble and anxiety from
his superstitious fears. When on the night watch, he
would see sights and hear noises, in the rigging and the
deep, which kept him in a perpetual fever of alarm.
One day the poor fellow reported upon deck, that the
devil, whom he knew by his horns and cloven feet,
stood by the side of his hammock on the preceding
night, and told him that he had only three days to live.
His messmates endeavoured to remove his despondency
by ridicule, but without effect. And the next morning
he told the tale to Captain Mott, with this addition,
that the fiend had paid him a second nocturnal visit,
announcing a repetition of the melancholy tidings. The
captain in vain expostulated with him on the folly of
indulging such groundless apprehensions. And the
morning of the fatal day being exceedingly stormy, the
man, with many others, was ordered to the topmast to
perform some duty among the rigging. Before he
ascended, he bade his messmates farewell, telling them
that he had received a third warning from the devil, and
that he was confident he should be dead before night.
He went aloft with the foreboding of evil on his mind,
and in less than five minutes he lost his hold, fell .upon
the deck, and was killed upon the spot."
6
256 ANACIIRONIS:\1 AND COIXCIDENCE OF DREAllS.
"\Vere an aversion to these gloomy fancies inculcated,
it might avert many a fatal foreboding, which, even in
our own enlightened era, has closely resembled the fate
of the African victims of Obi; that magic fascination,
which its Syriac namesake, Obh, works by spell, until
the doomed one pines to death, with the deep convic-
tion that he is under the ban of an enchanter.
~IATERIAL CAUSES OF DREAMS.
" I ago. Nay, this was but his dream.
Ol.htllo. But this denoted a foregone contluzion ;
'Tis a shrewd doubt, tho' it be but a dream."
OTnELLOo
AsTR. We looked for more from you, Evelyn, than
these proofs of a negative.
I presume still to think your philosophy is very weak
in. controversion of the inspiration of a dream, and its
supernatural causes. I cannot but believe, with Baxter,
that dreams may be "spirits in communion with us."
Ev. And you will define these shadowless ministers
in the fashion of Master Richard Burthogge, 1fedicinre
Doctor, (in his book, printed by Raven, in the Poultry,
in 1694.) I have a smack, you see, of medical biblio-
mania, Astrophel. Burthogge, although one of the
most rational interpreters ofdreams and spectres, thinks
their internal causes purely metaphysical; and then re-
futes his own opinion point blank by this sophistry,-
that "there are things incorporated, but invisible, which
we call spirits;" as who should say, "ith Shakspere's
fairies, "\Ve have the gift of fern seed ; we are invi-
sible."
No; we will account for the causes of dreams, Astro-
phel, without the ministry of spirits.
s
258 :MATERIAl. CAUSES OF DREA!\IS.
Analyzing, then, the notions of all, it is clear that the
essence of the dream is recurrence of ideas. In the
words of \Valpole,-" The memory retains the colour-
ing of the day."
Now memory is the first faculty to fail in age, and
you know old people seldom dream : the same objects
are applied, but there is little or no association, for the
brain is dull and feeble; imbecility, indeed, is mad
memory.
The t\v-o common periods associated with the dream,
are the past and the future, involving memory and
prognostication; the latter being but the memory of an
intention,-an image excited in the mind by analogy.
Even when present sensations excite the dream, it is
ever associated, as you remember, with something before
seen or felt.
The waking thought will thus again modify the
dream ; and Dr. Abercrombie has a curious illustration
of this combining of two minds,-one waking subject,
one dream, and one disturbing cause.
The French invasion was the universal topic in
Edinburgh; and the city was, indeed, one company of
volunteers. It was decided that the tocsin of alarm on
the approach of the enemy, was to be the firing of the
castle guns, followed by a chain of signals. At two, an
officer was awoke fr"..- -· ·..... <dream of guns and sig-
nals, and reviews of troops, by his lady, who herself
was affrighted by a similar dream, with a few associa-
tions of a different nature. And whence all this alarm?
-the falling of a pair of tongs on the hearth, the noise
of which was quite sufficient for the production of their
dreaming associations.
AsTR. It would seem to me that Evelyn was too
anxious to find employment for the brain, in thus im-
puting so much to substantial causes.
There is a funny scrap, I remember to have read, and
~IATERIAL CAUSF.S OF DREA~HL 259
of which I may shrewdly suspect my friend to be the
scribbler. "Whence we may compare the powers of
mind to a court of judicature :-the outward senses
being as the solicitors that bring the causes ; the com-
mon sense, as the master of requests, who receives all
their informations; and phantasy (or imagination), like
the lawyers and advocates that bandy the business to
a·nd fro in several forms, with a deal of noise and bus-
tle; rep.son, as the judge, that having calmly heard each
party's pretensions, pronounces an upright sentence ;
and memory, as the clerk, records the whole pro-
ceedings." But say, if the dream is but the memory
of an impression, are metaphysics to be counted as a
cypher, in our discussion of the nature of intellect?
Ev. Nay, the psychologist mustevercall metaphysics
to his aid, especially when speaking of the health or
disorder of mind : there is an intimate blending of meta-
physics and philosophy. But believe not, Astrophel,
that I presume to develope that mysterious influence
which is going on between mind and matter, so essential
to the manifestation of the former, during its earthly
condition. The mystery will ever be a sealed letter to
the intellect. It is enough that we have evidence of its
existence without yearning for deeper insight of final
causes. I have assured you that I do not believe
thought or reflection, or any act of mind to be material,
and speak even with all due courtesy to the abstract
metaphysician, and the divine who, doubtless from pure
and holy motives, would seek to cut the Gordian knot
of this sublime enigma.
Even Dr. Abercrombie is content with observing that
the correction of illusions by the sane mind is by the
comparing power of reason, but he leaves the illusion
itselfunexplained. Indeed, the most luminous of pa-
thologists have ever feared to touch organization ;
Sir Humphrey D~vy leaves his beautiful imaginings
s 2
260 l\fATERI.AL CAUSES OF DREAMS.
vague and inconclusive, because he stops short of the
brain.
The mere psychologist will ever persevere in placing
even the palpable causes of illusion beyond the reach of
our inquiries.
Thus the rhapsodies of Lucretius were a series of
professed fables, and the theories of ~Iacrobius a tissue
of capricious distinctions, as you may learn from his
classification. ·
1st. ovELpo{;, somnium, dream. A figurative vision to
be interpreted.
2nd. opa11a, vision. A vision which has afterwards
been exactly fulfilled.
3rd. XPll!laruT!lo{;, oraculum. An intimation in sleep
of what we ought to do.
(I suppose as the shade of Hector appeared to £neas,
warning him, the night before, to escape f:r:om the
flames of Troy.)
4th. evv1rvwv, insomnium. A sort of night-mare.
5th. pavracr11a, visus and incubus.
Here is a perfect jumble of classification, the first
three only being vaunted as prophetic, or inspired ; the
fourth a night-mare ; and the fifth, if it be any thing,
a spectral illusion.
Others have deemed themselves mighty wise in dis-
covering dreams to be the " action of intellect on it-
self."
Abercrombie, the most learned analyst of the mind
since Reid and Stewart, has four varieties of the dream :
1st. From wrong association of new events.
2nd. Trains of thought from bodily association.
3rd. Revival of old associations.
4th. Casual fulfilment of a dream!
You perceive the first and third arc merely memory,
with right and wrong arrangements; the second, excite-
ment of ideas from present sensations;. the fourth, if it
MATERIAL CAUSES OI<' DREAMS. 2()1
be not a mere coincidence, is the result, as I have ex-
plained, of imparted impetus, or deep thinking on sub-
jects presented to tile mind. The eccentricities of dream-
ing are not more curious than those of the reminiscent
faculty when awake; indeed, memory itself may seem to
be sometimes dreaming, and at others even fast asleep.
Those who survived the plague in Athens (as we read in
Thucydides), lost for a time the recollection of names,
their own and those of their friends, and did not regain
it until their health was re-established.
Mori, during his frequent moods of excitement, quite
lost his memory of music, so that, for many minutes, he
could neither read a not~ nor play from memory.
There have been persons who have very suddenly
forgotten their own names, which they were about to
announce on a visit to a friend.
"1\fr. Von B--, envoy to :Madrid, and afterwards
to Petersburg, a man of a serious tum of mind, yet by
no means hypochondriacal, went out one morning to
pay a number of visits. Among other houses at which
he called, there was one wher~ he suspected the servants
did not know him, and where he consequently was
under the necessity of giving in his name, but this very
name he had at that moment entirely forgotten. Turn-
ing round immediately to a gentleman who accompanied
him, he said, with much earnestness, 'For God's sake,
tell me who I am.' The question excited laughter, but
as 1\fr. Von B-- insisted on being answered, adding
that he had entirely forgotten his own name, he was
told it; upon which he finished his visit."
The eccentric impressions of this faculty will be often
intermittent, or marked by sudden yet regular remis-
siOns.
There is a very curious case on record, of a· lady
whose "memory was capacious, and well stored with
a copious stock of ideas. Unexpectedly, and without
262 :MATERIAL CAUSES OF DREAMS.
any forewarning, she fell into a profound sleep, which
continued several hours beyond the ordinary term. On
waking, she was discovered to have lost every trait. of
acquired knowledge; her memory was a blank. All
vestiges, both of words and things, were 0 bliterated and
gone; it was found necessary for her to learn every
thing again. She even acquired by new efforts the art
of spelling, reading, writing, and calculating, and gradu-
ally became acquainted with the persons and objects
around, like a being for the first time brought into the
world. In these exercises she made considerable pro-
ficiency; but, after a few months, another fit of somno-
lency invaded her. On rousing from it, she found
herself restored to the state she was in before the first
paroxysm; but she was wholly ignorant of every event
and occurrence that had befallen her afterwards. The
former condition of her existence she now calls the old
state, and the latter the new state; and she is as un-
conscious of her double charact~r as two distinct persons
are of their respective natures. For example, in her old
state, she possesses all h~ original knowledge; in her
new state, only what she acquired since. If a lady or
gentleman be introduced to her in the old state, and
vice versa (so indeed of all other matters), to know them
satisfactorily she must learn them in both states. In
the old state she possesses fine powers of penmanship,
while in the new she writes a poor awkward hand, not
having had time or means to become expert ! During
four years and upwards, she has had periodical transi-
tions from one of these states to the other. The alter-
ations are always consequent upon a long and sound
sleep. Both the lady and .her family arc now capable
of conducting the affair without embarrassment; by
simply knowing whether she is in the old or new state,
they regulate the intercourse, and govern themselves
according!y !"
~IATERIAL CAliS I<~ S OF DltE.oUI S. 2&3
Other instances arc more protracted; the impres~ions
prm'ious to a certain moment only being capable of
renewal.
~Irs. S--, an intelligent lady, belonging to a re-
spectable family in the state of New York, some years
ago undertook a piece of fine needle-work. She de-
voted her time to it almost constantly for a number of
days ; but before she had completed it she became sud-
denly delirious. In this state, without experiencing any
material abatement of her disease, she continued for
about seven years, when her reason was suddenly re-
stored. One of the firs~ questions which she asked on
this convalescence related to her needle-work. It is a
remarkable fact that, during the long continuance of her
delirium, she said nothing, so far as was recollected,
about her needle-work, nor concen1ing any such sub-
jects as usually occupied her attention when in health.
\Ve read in Dr. Abercrombie, of a lady reduced by
disease, in whose mind the memory of ten years was lost.
" Her ideas were consistent with each other, but they
referred to things as th~y stood before her removal (to
Edinburgh)." :
In these instances it is probable that the fault may be
referred to the original impression, some disorder or
state of the brain causing it to be only superficially im-
pressed during t~ese ten years of oblivion.
There is 'a ' curious story in the history of the Royal
Academy of Sciences, which Beattie has recorded in
these words :-
" A nobleman of Lausanne, as he was giving orders
to a servant, suddenly lost his speech and all his senses.
Different remedies were tried, without effect, for six
months; during all which time he appeared to be in a
deep sleep or deliquium, with various symptoms at <lif-
ferent periods, which are pru·ticularly specified in the
narration. At last, after some chirurgical operations, at
..
264 MATERIAL CAUSES 0.1<' DREAMS.
the end of six months his speech and senses were sud-
denly restored. When he recovered, the servant to
whom he had been giving orders when he was first
seized with the distell).per, happening to be in the
room, he asked whether he had executed his com-
mission; not being sensible, it seems, that any interval
of time, except, perhaps, a very short one, had elapsed
during his illness."
InA. I have read two stories of melancholy romance,
which are not mal-a-propos to your arguments, Evelyn,
in which the memory of one intense impression has
" gone into a being," influencing the current of every
after-thought, and the mind seeming ever after uncon-
scious of all past or present, but the incident of one
moment.
A gentleman, on the point of marriage, left his in-
tended bride for a short time. He usually tra\;elled in
the stage-coach to the place of her abode ; but the last
journey he took from her was the last of his life.
Anxiously expecting his return, she went to meet the
vehicle, when an old friend announced to her the death
of her lover. She uttered an involuntary scream, and
one piteous exclamation, "He is dead !" From this
fatal moment, forfifty years, has this unfortunate female
daily, in all seasons, traversed the distance of a few
miles to the spot where she expected h~r future husband
to alight from the coach, uttering, in a plaintive tone,
"He is not come yet; I will return to-morrow."
A young clergyman, on the eve of marriage, received
a severe lil.Jury. During his future life of celibacy,
which was protracted to the 80th year, this one idea
only possessed his mind, that his hour of happiness was
approachin~, and to the last moment he talked of his
marriage with all the passion of a devoted lover.
Ev. Thanks to your own memory, Ida, for these in-
cidents. That the possession of the .faculty of this
~IATERIAL CAUSES OJ..' DREA~Is. 2G5
impression of memory can be demonstrated, we might
doubt, were verbal description only employed; but when
we sec the artist trace the features of a person long lost
to us from memory, we know that such ideas existed,
and were then re-excited in his mind.
The power of the intellect in retaining these impres-
sions is wonderful. Cynts is said to have remembered
the names of all his soldiers, and Themistoclcs those
of two.thousand Athenians.
\Vc have records from Seneca and others, that some
will remember, after one perusal or hearing, very long
poems; and even have repeated, word for word, the
unconnected jumble of a newspaper. Pascal, as we arc
told by Locke, never forgot anything. Almost equally
retentive was the memory of my excellent teacher, Sir
Astley Cooper, and hence his nearly unexampled accu-
mulation of facts. The memory of Ben Jonson was
retentive to perfection, until the fortieth year of his
age. In his youth, he could repeat an entire volume
after its perusal ; nay, even the whole of his own works,
or as he quaintly writes, "All that ever I made." \Ve
know that Bloomfield composed his "Farmer's Boy''
in the bustle of a shoe manufactory, and wrote from his
memory.
A~T,. I have heard that the particles of the body arc
co~~tly changing : if so, how can memory exist in
the brain?
Ev. The answer is easy. Because particles of exact
similarity are deposited as others arc removed. The
parts thus regenerated, of whatever structure they
may be, still being identical and unchanged in func-
tion.
If the dream he an inspiration, Astrophel, it is like
"a spirit of the past," and docs not "speak like .$ybih:,
of the future."
But ere I oflcr some analogies of waking memory_, in
266 liATERIAL CAUSES OF DREA:\IS.
illustration of the causes of the dream, I must again
L'ltiguc you by a glance at the physiology of memory ;
the origin or mode of impression of a sense, and the
mode ofrecurrence ofsuch impression, i.e. the excitement
of the dream.
Aristotle has asserted that senses cannot receive
material objects, but only their species, or H~wAov ;
and l\lr. Locke entertained the same idea. For this
effect, however, matter musf have touched a sense, and
its impression, as Baron Haller thought, must have
been mechanical. For instance, the rays emanating
from a body, and impinging on the retina, or an undu-
lation of sound on the labyrinth of the ear, stamp an
image on the brain, by which, (in accordance with a
prior observation on illusion,) some minute change is
inevitably effected; some minute cerebral atoms are
displaced.
If you propose to me that curious physiological ques-
tion,-in what consists the fup.ction of a nerve-in os-
cillation, or in undulation of a fluid, in electricity, or in
magnetism? or how the nerve carries this impression to
the brain? or if you desire me to meet the subtle objec-
tion, which Dr. Reid advanced against the opinion of
Aristotle and of the more modern psychologists,-I
might weary you with conjectures like those of Newton
and Hartley, that some ethereal fluid was, by the im-
pulse of peculiar stimulus to its nerve, the cause of the
senses; or that the mental phenomena are an imparting,
or influence of the immaterial soul by corporeal vibra-
tion; or that dreams are "motions of fibres:" and at
length, with humility confess this to be a mystery we
cannot yet fathom. And this I do the more willingly,
as it may prove my devotion to the proper limits of our
study; moreover, the question itself is not essential to
my argument.
Yet it is certain that external impr~ssions of every
~IATERIAL CAUSES OF DREAliH. 2Gi
object or subject, reach the brain through the medium
of a nerve; and when the same fibrils of those twn·<!s,
or·tltat spot of brain on which the original image rested,
arc again irritated by their proricr stimulus, or by the
same or a similar body, an as.~ociation is produced, and
rnemory is tile result.
. For the insurance of this sense of touch, and feeling,
and perception, it is essential that the impression at
the end of a nerve shall be perfectly transmitted along
its course to the brain, so that the brain shall be con-
scious, or sensible of this impression. For if a nerve be
cut asunder, or a ligature be placed on any portion of
it between the skin and the brain, tlte sensation instantly
ceases. It is not essential, however, that the contact
should take place at the moment of the perception; and
the explanation of this involves one of the most curious
phenomena of the body's feeling; and, indeed, the me-
taphysical mystery of the nature of memory, which is
too abstruse a point to be touched by us here. After
amputation, the patient may still complain of pain, and
heat, and cold, in the dissevered limb; he experiences
the memory of a sensation; he feels, as it were_
, the
ghost of his arm or leg. On the night succeeding the
operation, the groaning patient has often cried out to
me, with _Fain in the toe or finger of that limb ; and
when Y,s moved or shifts his position, he will attempt
to hold his leg, or will beg his nurse to take care that
she does not touch or run against it. Nay, I have fre-
quently, on asking a patient how he felt, even after the
lapse of many months from the operation, been an-
swered, that he was well, but had not lost the pain in
his leg; or that his leg or his arm were lying by his
side, when perhaps the limb was undergoing the process
of maceration in the dissecting-room, or the bones were
bleached and dangling in the museum.
The pain, or common feeling of the limb, has stamped
26S !'.IATERIAL CAUSES OF DREA~IS.
an image or eidOlon on the brain, which is not easily
effaced ; there remains an internal sensibility on this
point of memory. If the subject be subsequently pre-
sented to the mind by a touch at the end of the stump,
or even by a thought, the idea of the limb that had lain
dormant, will be re-excited by that wondrous sympathy
of brain and nerve, and the result will be a conscious-
ness of having once possessed, or of having experienced
a pain in this leg. -
And, on this principle of the force of memory, we
may explain many of our excited feelings: those which
remain after we have been wafted in a boat, or rolled
along in a carriage, or whirled aloft in a swing; the
nervous impression in the brain is re-excited ere it was
exhausted.
Now, an image may be stamped on the brain, in a
tumult, without our cognizance or perception, a~d then
revived in slumber;-we wake in wonder at having seen
what we never saw or thought of before. Such is the
dream of Lovel, in the "Antiquary;" and such the
rationale of that tale of mystery, respecting the £6. in
the Glasgow bank, which a dream seems certainly to
have developed.
And it is evident that these impressions may recur
the easier in slumber, because there is no fresh impres-
sion on the senses to produce confusion. But then all
these images may be presented at one time ; so that we
may have either a chaos, or a correct concatenation,-
an incident, which Hobbes and other early metaphysi-
cians confess to be inexplicable to them.
In the words of Spurzheim, "~Iemory is the repro-
duction of a perception;" and Gall believed that " Re-
membrance is the faculty of recollecting that we hat•e
percdved impressions ; and memory, the recollection of
the impressions tlu:mselves."
I read, that E~quirol has drawn a dist~nction between
:\IATERIAJ, CAPSES OF DREAMS. 2G9
hallucination and illusion,,--thc first is from within, the
second from without. The argument I have adduced
ofmemory and impression,-thc one at the beginning,
the other at the end, of ncrvcs,--.,:.will, I think, illustrate
this perfectly. Hallucination, being internal, is of the
past; illusion, external,-of the pre.Yent.
Another metaphysician, Bayle, it is clear, was not
ignorant of the basis of phrenology, or of this difference,
when ,he alludes to "certain places on the brain, on
which the image of an object, which has no real exist-
ence out of ourselves, might be excited."
INTENSE ll\fPRESSION.-l\IEl\fORY.
" Tbe dream's here still: even when I wake, it is
Without me llll within me; not imagined, felt."
CYMBELIN E.
Ev. I believe, then, that waking and slumbering asso-
ciation is memory; and I have interposed the -glimpse
of metaphysics to break the monotony of my illustra-
tions, for they are not yet exh~usted.
A gentleman, as we read in Dr. Pritchard's work,
was confined, after a severe accident, for several weeks,
and the a~cident was n?t once during this period re-
membered by him; but, on his convalescence, he rode
again over the same ground, and all the circumstances
instantly flashed across his mind.
In their youth, Dr. Rush escorted a lady, on a holi-
day, to see an eagle's nest. Many years aftenvards, he
was called to attend her in the acute stage of typhus ;
and, on his entrance into her chamber, she instantly
screamed out, " Eagle's nest P' and it is said, from this
moment, the fever began to decline.
We ourselves have witnessed these flashes of memory.
more than once, during the acuteness of brain fever,
where journeys, and stories, and studies, have been re-
newed after they had been long forgotte?.
INTENSE DfPRRSSION• ~fEMORY. 27l
There arc many romantic incidents in illustration
which have been beautifully wrought into a poem, or
drama, as that play of Kotzebue, written to illustrate the
happy success of the Abbe de l'Epee in France, in im-
parting knowledge and receiving sentiments from the
deaf and dumb. In this, the young Count Solar, by
gestures, unfolds, step by step, his birth-place, and at
length screams with joy, as he stands before the palace
of his ancestors.
Then there is the story of little ~iontague, who was
decoyed by the chimney sweep. Some time after this,
the child was engaged to clean the chimney of a man-
sion, and, descending into a chamber, which had been
indeed his own nursery, lay down, in his sooty clothes,
on the quilt, and, by this happy memory, discovered
his aristocratic birth. This is the incident which still
enlivens the pageantry of May-day.
These reminiscences will occur sometimes in the
most sudden and uriexpected manner. In one of the
A~erican journals, we are told of a clergyman, who, at
the termination of some depressing malady, had com-
pletely lost his memory. His mind was a blank, and
he had, in fact, ~o begin the world of literature again.
Among other />f his studies was the Latin language.
During hi~1assical readings with his brother, he one
day suddenly struck his head with his hand, and stated
that he had a most peculiar feeling, and was convinced
that he had learned all this before.
Boerhave, in his " Prelectiones Academic. lnstitut.
~fed.," relates the case of a Spanish tragic writer,
whose memory, subsequently to an acute febrile dis-
ease, was so completely impaired, that not only the
literature of various languages he had studied was lost
to him, but also their elements, the alphabets. \Yhcn
even his own poetic compositions were read to him, he
denied himself to he the author. But the most intc-
6
272 IXTEXSE BIPRESSIOX.-~IE'!\IORY.
resting feature of the case is this : that, on becoming
again a votary of the ~fuse, his recent compositions so
intimately resembled his original productions in style
and sentiment, that he no longer doubted that both
were the offspring of his own imagination.
Even Priestley's master-mind was sometimes sleeping
thus, being subject (to quote his own words) "to hum-
bling failures of recollection;'' so that he lost all ideas of
things and persons, and had so forgotten his own writ-
ings, that, on the perusal of a work, he sat himself to
make experiments on points which he had already illus-
trated, but on which his mind was then a "tabula rasa."
Above all, the superlative memory of Sir 'Valter lay
in a deep sleep, after a severe indisposition. It is re-
corded by Ballantyne, that when " the Bride of Lam-
mermoor, in its printed form, was submitted to his
perusal, he did not recognize, as his own, one single
incident, character, or conversation it contained; yet
the original tradition was perfect in his mind. 'Vhen
~Irs. Arkwright, too, sung so~e verses of his, one even-
ing, at Lord Francis Egerton's, the same oblivion was
o'er his mind, and he whispered to Lockhart, 'Capital
words ;-:-whose are they? Byron's, I suppose ; but I
don't remernber litem.' "
~Iy friend, Dr. Copland, informed me (in ~:lay, 1839)
of a lady of fifteen, Miss D-, who, in consequence of
extreme exhaustion from disorder, forgot all her accom-
plishments, and had to begin her education afresh.
The Countess of Laval had, in her childhood, been
taught the Armorican of Lower Brittany (which is a dia-
lect of the 'Velch), but had, as she believed, forgotten
it. On attaining the adult period, this lady had an
acute fever, and, during her delirium, she ceased to
speak in her native language, and chattered fluently in
the bastard "\Velch.
A foreign gentleman, as we were t~ld by l\fr. Abcr-
1:\'TENSE UIPftESSlO~. lllO:liOHL 273
nethy, after an accident on the head, spoke French
only, and quite forgot the English, which he had before
this spoken very fluently.
A 'Velch patient, in St. Thomas's Hospital, some
years since, having received an injury, began to speak
in 'Velch, and ever after continued to do so, although
before his accident he constantly conversed in English.
On the contrary, we learn, from Dr. Pritchard, of a
lady who, after a fit of apoplexy, forgot her original
language (the English), and spoke only in French, so
that her nurses and servants conversed with her only
by interpreters.
1'here may be a partial derangement of memory, one
set of impressions only being erased.
A friend of Dr. Beattie, in consequence of a blow on
the head, lost only his attainments in Greek; and
Professor Scarpa (whose corpus striatum was disor-
ganised) lost only the memory of proper names.
You may now comprehend how instantaneously ma-
terial impressions derange and destroy memory, and its
converse, the production of memory by material Im-
pressions, will be far less mysterious to you.
But creatures to which the gift of intellect is not
granted, in )Yhich innate ideas cannot arise, still evince
the faculty/of memory. It is, therefore, possible that
fish and insects, possessing memory, dream. Of course
the doctrines of Pythagoras, and Simonides, and the
story of the interpretation of the language of birds by
the vizier of Sultan ~1ahmoud, are mere fables, and the
cackling of the Roman geese was accidental; yet the
bird. does. possess the memory of language, and the
power of imparting ideas.
Nightingales' notes (as Bechstein has beautifully re-
corded them) seem to me like the ~:Iexican language,
and to express variety of sentiments of adoration and
love. The pan-ot, magpie, jackdaw, jay, starling, and
T
274 I~TE~SE Il\fPRESSIO:'Il.-:\IEliORY.
bullfinch, are prattlers; and the exquisite little canary,
the pupil of my friend, Mrs. H--, the pet, indeed,
not only of its mistress, but of statesmen and learned
physiologists, warbled its words in purest melody.
From Sir 'Villiam Temple we learn the faculty of the
wonderful parrot of Prince ~Iaurice, of Nassau, at the
Hague, that responsed almost rationally to promiscuous
questions. Granting, then, this faculty of memory, it
is clear the bird may dream, and I may add one other
quotation from the "Domestic Habits of Birds," in
proof of this.
"We have, however, heard some of these night-songs
which were manifestly uttered while the bird was
asleep, in the same way as we sometimes talk during
sleep-a circumstance remarked by Dryden, who says,
" ' The little birds in dreams their songs repeat.'
"We have even observed this in a wild bird. On
the night of the 6th April, 18ll, about ten o'clock, a
dunncock (accentor modularis) was heard in a garden to
go through its usual song more than a dozen times very
faintly, but distinctly enough for the species to be
recognised." The, night was cold abd frosty, but might
it not be that the little musician was dreaming of sum-
mer and sunshine ? Aristotle, indeed, proposes the
question whether animals hatched from eggs ever
dream. Marcgrave, in reply, expressly says, that his
" parrot, Laura, often rose in the night, and prattled
while half asleep."
Among quadrupeds, it is probable that those which,
by their half-reasoning instinct, approach nearest to the
power of comparison; and those which, in contrast to
the callous-hoofed, possess an acuteness of feeling, and
therefore the nearest approximate intelligence, are the
most prone to dream.
Although we know nothing of the. dreams of that
very learned dog, which Lcibuitz assures us he saw,
and which uttered an articulate language, and often
erijoyed a chat with his master;. yet, of the ltlumherin.'l
visions of the canines I have many illustrations. Vic, a
fat terrier, was a somniloquist. She would bark, and
lauglt, and run round the room, or against tahle,fl; the
surest proof of somnambulism. Indeed dogs arc cele-
brated by many poets for their dreaming propensities.
Ennius writes-
" Et canis in somnis leporis vestigia latrat."
And Lucretius has l~ft us a very comprehensive
poetical account of the dreams of brutes.
Even Chaucer refers to these dreams ; and in the
Hall of Branksome,
" The stag-hound, weary with the chace,
Urged in dreams the forest race."
It is probable that the dreams of brutes arc very
sltort.
From simple, unassociated memory, too, springs the
dream of the infant; pure and innocent as the thought
of a cherub. For delight is the common feeling of a
dream~ld; and when its lips are touched in sleep,
the memory of its mother's bosom will excite it,s lips
and tongue to the congenial action of suction, though a
fright of the previous day will change its slumbers into
moments of terror, and it will murmur and cry in its
dream.
I believe it is Sir H. Wotton who lays much stress on
the adoption of plans of education for a child, grounded
on the discovery of its secret thoughts during it.-s simple
somniloqucnt dream.
CAsT. It is wonderful how vividly arc revived in our
dream those scenes of our early life, which our waking
efforts could not recollect.
T2
276 IXTEXSE UIPRE8SIOX.-::\IE)10RY.
This did not escape Chaucer, as I remember in Dry-
den's version of a fable :
" Sometimes forgotten things, long cast behind,
Rush forward in the brain, and come to mind.
The nurse's lege-nds are for truths receiv'd,
And the man dreams but what the boy believ'd.
Sometimes we but rehearse a former play,
The night restores our actions done by day."
Ev. Yet do not associate this brilliancy of infantine
reminiscence with vigour of the thought. The brain in
children is, as it were, like wax, eaSily impressible. And
remember, the ideas of children are more resembling the
imperfect associations of our dreams; the tutorage of
our advancing mind fills it with more serious and ra-
tional images characterized by judgment.
The first impressions of childhood are bright as
fancy ; so that we think in waking more of thi':lgs pre-
sent. But, in dreams of things long agone there is,
in fact, no complete oblivion, ip a healthy mind, for any
one of our infantile impressions may chance to be
brought to us in our dream.
But if impression be intense, it may assimilate that of
childhood, and become as permanent. My friend, Dr.
Uwins, told me of a patient who, in a joke, once
amused himself by throwing stones at the gibbeted
pirates on the bank of the Thames. An epileptic ten-
dency succeeded; and ever after this, his dreams were
of gibbets and chains, and to that degree, that his judg-
ment and philosophy were powerless in controlling his
fears.
And in the book of the Prussian, Greding, we read of
J. C. V., a youth, who, in his eighth year, had been at-
tacked by a dog. His future, and, indeed, nightly
dreams, were of this creature_, and these so intense, as
to reduce his health to a very low degree.
Now it is easy to believe the perioc;I of slumber so
limited, that the subject of reflection shall not have diH-
appeared, that the thought had scarcely time to cool :
" Lateat scintilluhl forsan."
Thus ~loses ~Iendelssohn had all the sounds, heard
during the day, reverberating in his slumbering mind.
Or we may suppose, that the idea last imprinted on
the mind, or by which it had been exclusively occupied,
and the thoughts which are so much modified by our
temperament, study, and contemplation, would be the
first to influence as the mind awakened, ere the image of
fresh objects had been again perceived.
Sir \Valter, in his diary, thus writes : "\Vhcn I had
in former times to fill up a passage in a poem, it was
always when I first opened my eyes that the desired
ideas thronged upon me. I am in the habit of relying
upon it, and saying to myself when I am at a loss,
'Never mind, we shall have it all at seven o'clock to-
morrow morning.'"
'"\Varton, the professor of poetry at Oxford, after par-
taking of a Sunday dinner with a friend, repaired to his
service at his Church. On his way, he was powerfully
saluted~ry of" Live mackarel." He slumbered
in his pulpit during the singing of the psalm, and, on
the organ ceasing, he arose, half awake, and instead of
his solemn prayer, cried with a loud voice, "All alive,
all alive oh !"
I remember the storytellers in the coffee-houses at
Aleppo, as if aware of this last impression, used to run
out when they perceived they had excited a deep in-
terest.
InA. It is curious to hear, even by your own quota-
tions, Evelyn, that poets have so revelled in the luxury
of dreams, from Homer to Pope, chiefly employing
them, however, as the materiel of their poesy. Have
they condescended to glance at their causes?
278 INTENSE DlPRESSIOX.-llEllORY.
Ev. Lucretius, Claudian, George Stepney, Dryden,
and a few others. Apropos as to causes.
In the "Anatomy of ~Ielancholy" we have the fol-
lowing quaint summary: "As Tully notes, for the most
part our speeches in the daytime cause our phantasy to
work upon the like in our sleep, so do men dream on
such subjects they thought on last :
"' Somnia qure mentes ludunt Yolitantibus umbris,
Nee delubra. deum nee ab rethere numina mittunt,
Sed sibi quisque facit,'" &c.
For that cause, when Ptolemy, king of Egypt, had
posed the seventy interpreters in order, and asked the
nineteenth man what would make one sleep quietly in
the night, he told him "the best way was to have divine
and celestial meditations, and to use honest actions in
the daytime." Lad. Vives wonders how sc4oolmen
could sleep quietly and were not terrified in the night,
they had such monstrous questions and thought of such
terrible matters all day long. They had need amongst
the rest to sacrifice to god ~Iorpheus, whom Philostratus
paints in a white and black coat, with a horn, and ivory
box full of dreams of the same colours, to signify good
and bad."
CAsT. These are the manufacture, I presume, of two
of those sons of sleep, born to him by a beautiful but
erring grace," Phantasus," or Fancy, and" Phobetor,"
or Terror. "\Vith the relations and illustrations of these
good and bad dreams, the pages of both fiction and
authentic history abound : another poetical batch of
causes, Ida. Lucia exclaims :
"Sweet are the slumbers of the ,·irtuous man,
Oh Marcia! I have seen thy godlike father-
A kind refreshing sleep is fallen upon him.
I saw him stretch'd at e.as(', hi.." fancy lost
In pleasing dreams. As I drew near his couch,
He smil'd, and cried : 'Ctc:sar, thou caus't not lnu·t rue.' n
INTENSE I:MPRESSlON.-1\IEliOltY. :27!)
Another poet writes thus :
" But most we mark the wonders of her reign,
When sleep has lock'd the senses in her chain :
'Vhen sober judgment ha.s his throne rcsign'd,
She smiles away the chaos of the mind;
And, as warm fancy's bright clysium glows,
From her each image springs, each colour flows.
She is the sacred guest, th' immortal friend ;
Oft seen o'er sleeping innocence to bend,
In that dead hour of night, to silence giv'n,
\Vhispering seraphic visions of her hcav'n."
Then Richmond exclaims : "My heart is very jocund
in the remembrance of so fair a dream.'' '\Vhile the
coward conscience of Richard thus speaks :
" By the apostle Paul, shadows to-night
Have struck more terror to the soul of Richard,
Than could the substance of ten thousand soldiers."
Aufidius thus recounts his slumbering memory of the
prpwess of Coriolanus:
" This happy Roman, this proud Marcius, haWlts me.
Each troubled night, when slaves and eaptives sleep,
Forgf.TI'urot·tbcir chains, I in my dreams
Anew am vanquislt'd ; and beneath his sword
With horror sinking, feel a tenfold death-
The death of honour."
And yet another :.
" Tho' thy slumber may be deep,
Yet thy spirit shall not sleep.
'fhere are shades that will not vanish ;
There are thoughts thou canst not banish."
And, lastly, Crabbe, in his "'\Vorld of Dreams:"
" That female fiend, why is she there t
Alas ! I know her. Oh, begone !
280 INTENSE DIPRESSION.-liE~lORY.
Why is that tainted bosom bare t
Why fixed on me that eye of stone !
Why have they left us thus alone !
I saw the deed--"
AsTR. You will drown us in a flood of Helicon, fair
lady, if you thus dole out the thoughts of these maudlin
poets. The records of national and domestic history,
the dreams of the conqueror of thousands, and of the
midnight assassin, are replete with incidents, if we will
search for them, more impressive, ay, and more roman-
tic, than all this rhyming ; and from the legends of his-
tory alone I could select a legion <?f dreaming mysteries,
which would dissolve all these fine-spun theories of
Evelyn, regarding the essence, as he terms it, of the
dream. He must adopt a clearer course, in showing us
his caWJes, than by harping on this favourite theme of
memory; and we must listen through another moon-
light, ere we be made wiser, by the unfolding. of this
grand secret of visions.
INFLUENCE OF DARK BLOOD IN 'rilE
BRAIN.
" I talk of dreams,
Which are the children of an Idle brain."
ROMEO AND JULlET.
Ev. That I may explain to you the predisposition of a
dream,-in other words, the state of broken slumher,-
it is essential that I recur to the physiology of the
brain ; ,and I must humble our pride, by combining
some of the debasing conditions of our nature, as in-
fluential on the divine mind, through the medium of its
chambers ofmarrow ; for to the intimate condition and
function of fh~''lmrin and its nenres, and its contained
blood, we must chiefly look for elucidation of the phy-
sical causes of a dream.
Yet I may even ·grant you, for an argument, Astro-
phel, the flight of an immortal spirit, and all the amiable
vagaries of Sir Thomas Brown ; reserving to myself to
prove at what moment we become conscious of this
flight.
In natural actions, there are ever three requisites, like
the points of a syllogism :
l. A susceptibility of influence;
2. The influence itself;
3. The effect of this influence :
282 l~FLlJE~CE OF DARK BLOOD
And these I call the predisposing, the e:cciting, and
the pro:cimate causes.
1. The brain is brought to this susceptibility by ex-
cited temperament, study, intense and undivided
thought; in short, by any intense impression.
2. The influence or excitement is applied ; congestjon
of blood producing impression on extremities, or
origin of a nerve, at the period of departing or
returning consciousness. At these periods, the
blood changes, and I believe, as it changes, the
phenomena of mind, as ·in the waking state,
obey these changes :-rational and light dreams
being the effect of circulation of scarlet blood ;
dull and reasonless ·vi.sions and "night-mare,"
that of crimson, or black blood.
3. 'rhe effect of this influence is recurrence of idea,
memory,-more or less erroneously associated,
as the blood approximates to the black or scarlet
state, or as the brain itself is constituted.
Now it is essential to the perfect function of the
brain, not only that it shall have a due supply of blood,
but that this blood shall be of that quality we term oxy-
genated. If there be a simple deficiency of this scarlet
blood, a state of sound undisturbed sleep will ensue
(slightly analogous to the condition of syncope, or faint-
ing). This may be the consequence of any indirect
impression, or the natural indication of that direct debi-
lity, which we witness in early infancy, and in the
"second childishness and mere oblivion" of old age.
But this deficiency of arterial blood may be depending
on a more positive cause, venous congestion, impeding
its flow; for in sleep, the breathing being slower, the
blood becomes essentially darker. Even arterial blood
itself will become to a certain degree carboni:ed, by
lentor, or stagnation. Venous congesti~n and diminu-
IN 'rug BltAIN.
tion of arterial circulation arc not incompatible ; indccdJ
Dr. Abercrombie reasons very ably on their relative
nature, implying the necessity of some nmwra of venous
circulation to supply that want or vacuum which the
brain would otherwise experience from the deficiency
of the current in the arterial system. Thus will the
languid arterial circulation of the brain, which causes
sleep in the first instance, produce, secondarily, that
congestion of blood in the veins and sinuses, which
shall reduce it to disturbed slumber, and excite the
dream. ~fay we not account, on this principle, for the
difficulty which many persons experience in falling into
a second slumber, when they have been disturbed in the
first?
InA. Combe, I believe, observed, through a hole in a
fractured skull, that the brain was elevated during an
apparent dream.
Ev. This is a matter of frequent observation with us.
There was, in 1821, at Montpelier, a woman who had
lost part of the skull, and the brain and its membranes
lay bare. When she was in deep sleep, the brain lay
in the skull almost motionless; when she was dreaming,
it became elevateu;"al!d when her dreams (proved by
her relating them :when awake) were on vivid or ani-
mating subjects, but especially when she was awake, the
brain was protruded through the cranial aperture.
Blumenbach states that he, himself, witnessed in one
person a sinking of the brain, whenever he was asleep,
and a swelling with blood when he awoke. David
Hartley, therefore, may be half right and half wrong
when he imputes dreams to an impediment to the flow
of blood, a collapse of the ventricles, and a diminished
quantity of their contained serum.
'\Ve thus have not only a deficiency ofproper stimulus,
but a deleterious condition of the blood, which nets as a
poison to the brain. In fatal cases of coma and de-
284 INI<'LUENCE OF DARK BLOOD
lirium, we observe deep red points, chiefly in the cine-
'ritious part of the brain, from this congestion of its
vessels. Sound sleep is thus prevented, but the con-
gestion of carbonized blood acting as a sort of narcotic,
depresses the energy of the brain so far as to prevent
waking, inducing that middle state, drowsiness or slum-
ber; so that sleep may thus depend on congestion/rom
exhaustion; and " spectral illusion" from congestion in
that state short of slumber; and insanity itself from con-
gestion still more copious and permanent.
From this results a disturbed condition of the brain ;
it is irritated, not excited, by its healthy or proper
stimulus ; and it follows that such derangement of the
manifestations of mind ensues as we term a dream.
Waking, however, soon takes place, and the blood is
more scarlet, and the faculties themselves gradually
awake. As this is more perfect, we remember the
dream, and are enabled to explain it, and know that it
was a dream. The mind is now restored, so that scarlet
blood indicates healthy thought, and black blood its re-
verse. Your pardon for this prolixity and dulness.
The healthy or unhealthy crisis of the blood is a most
important subject in our argument, and too constantly
slighted in the question of illusion. c
Monsieur Denis records the story of a young man of
Paris, in the 17th century, who was cured of a stubborn
and protracted lethargy, by the transfusion of the
arterial blood of a lamb ; and another of a recovery from
madness, by that of the arterial blood of a calf, and
these in presence of men both of science and high
quality.
I do not affirm my implicit faith in this statement, of
the effect of gentle blood, but I am certain of the
poisonous influence of that of another quality; and I will
cite a passage from Hoffman, the German poet, whom
Monsieur Poupon, in his "Illustrations of Phrenology,"
I
IX TilE BRAIX.
adduces as a specimen of marvellousness, ere I offer
my cases.
"'Vhy do my thoughts, whether I am awake or
asleep, always tend, in spite of all my efforts, to the
gloomy subject of insanity? It seems to me as if I felt
my disordered ideas escaping from my mind, like hot
bloodfrom a wounded t'ein."
This was figurative, but it was true; for of itself this
blae~ blood may be suddenly the cause of furious and
fatal mania. 'Vhen Dionis, in his '' Cours d'Opemtions
de Chirurgie," is referring to that operation that ha..o;;
lately, by its revival, occupied so much of the attention
of the medical world (the process of tran.ifusion) he
says : "La fin funeste de ces malheureuses victimcs de
la nouveaute, detruisit, en un jour, les hautes idees
qu'ils avoient eon~ues ; ils devinrent fou.x, furieu:r, et
moururent ensuite."
The relief of the brain, by the escape of this blood,
is of deeper interest to science than the mere romancer
may imagine.
Sir Samuel Romilly was for a moment, I believe, in
a state of sanity, when blood had flowed from the di-
vided vessels of hist~at; for he attempted, it appeared,
to stop its flow by thrusting the towel with some force
into the wound.
So diseases of the heart, by keeping the black blood
in the brain, predispose to dreaming. During the age
of terror in France, organic diseases of the heart and
cases ofmania were most prevalent.
I may for a moment indulge in analogies regarding
this arrest of the blood. Cases of inflammation of the
ear are often seen in confirmed maniacs (the helix being
usually the part most inflamed), and black blood often
oozes from the part.
~1. Calmeil considers chronic pltle,qma:~ia of the brain
as the cause of insanity, the derangement itself being,
286 INFLUENCE OF DARK llLOOD
as it were, the moral remlt or disease, and the or-
ganic changes or proximate cause the physical disease;
both being but the sequelce, or consequence of inflam-
mation.
A boy, the servant of a medical friend (~fr. A--),
was, some years ago, placed under my care for fever,
with delirium. About the acme of his disorder the ·im-
petuosity of the blood in the vessels of the head was
such as to project his ears· prominently forwards, like
those of a satyr, or, as the gossips thought, rather of a
demon. Yet all this subsided as the fever waned.
Yet, believe me, I draw a decided distinction between
mania and dreaming ; though the phenomena may some-
times bear resemblance. In one essential point they
differ; that the transient illusion is not manifested, ex-
cept during slumber, or a state closely analogous to it,
when the senses are languid, or asleep. It_ is true,
however, the mani!lc will, on his recovery, often dremn
of the subJect of his insanity, yet insanity is more exem-
plified by action, the dream being usually passive.
The predisposition to insanity is often, too, hereditary,
so that the slightest moral influence, imperceptible per-
haps to the physician, may incite such a mind to mad-
ness; for where there is no predisposition, that is, a
perfect integrity of brain, a right judgment ·is evinced
even under the potent influence of the passions.
As the condition of insanity, so the illusive vision,
does not always primarily depend on medullary disease ;
there are primary moral as well as physical causes. But
even the exertion of thought, which the ultra spiritualist
may term a!l immaterial faculty, is attended by in-
creased action on the matter of the brain. The organ
of mind will, if diseased, (though not always,) produce
deranged actwns. Yet it is equally true, if even a
sound brain b.e badly instructed, and its passion un-
controlled, insanity may ensue; not J:lowcver without
IN 'riiF; ltiL\1:\' .
quickly, I believe irmnediatdy, inducing structural
change.
On one point, the dream and insanity are often alike;
they arc rnental fulfilrnents of a zois!t : and the dreamer,
during his slumber, and the madman throughout his
derangement, arc presented with the spectra of their
desires, and their hopes and fears become, for t!tese
periods, reality.
It, was with a reference to the wanderings of the
understanding in dreams, that Sir James :Mackintosh
thus writes in a letter to Robert Hall:
"These will familiarise your mind to consider its
other aberrations as only more rare than sleep and
dreams, and, in process of time, they will cease to ap-
pear to you much more horrible."
AsTR. And pray, Evelyn, how doth all this profound
prosing affect the subject of dreams?
Ev. By similitude. I may even remind you with
devout veneration, of the dreams of a prophet, to prove
the brain highly sensitive when these visions arc before
it. Listen to the words of Daniel, to whom " God
gave knowledge and skill in all learning and wisdom.''
"I, Daniel, was--~ed in my spirit, in the midst
of my body, and the visions of my head troubled
me."
" And I, Daniel, fainted and was sick certain days."
Even here, may we not believe, that the Creator did
not alter his law ?
It was Dr. Cullen who first drew a parallel between
insanity and dreams. As some proof of his insight, we
read in Lode of a man who never dreamed until he fell
into a fever in the twenty-fifth year;-in Beattie, of a
young friend who never dreamt unless his health was
deranged.
And Mr. Locke thus writes: "I once knew a man
who was bred a scholar, and had no bad memory, who
288 IXFLUEXCE OF DARK BLOOD
told me that he had never dreamed in his life until he
had fever."
This immunity from dreams is also most marked in
savages, unless during disorder or at the dying moment.
Ulloa, Humboldt, and La Condamine, all agree as to
the character of indolence and absence of thought and
fancy in the native Americans, and it is as sure that
they seldom dream.
Now whatever influence tends to arrest or derange
the upper circulation of the blood in its return to the
heart, or to detain it in the vessels of the brain, or which
presses on an important nerve, so ~ to disturb the func-
tion of the brain or spinal cord, by continuous sympathy,
may be the remote cause of the phenomena of dreaming.
Such are the results of repletion, dyspepsia, the
supine position, &c. &c.
And here, Astrophel, I meet your metaphysician.
Galen, and indeed the ancients generally, attributed
dreams chiefly to indigestion; but referred their imme-
diate excitement to fumes an'd vapours, instead of to
nervous influence, or cerebral congestion from inter-
rupted circulation.
CAsT. . And here, Evelyn, courtesy might have
prompted you to meet my poets. Let me see, is it not
Dryden who writes of-
" -- rising fumes of undigested food,
And noxious humours that disturb the blood l"
And in a poem believed to have been ·written by
Chaucer, there is this pasaage: can I remember his
quaintness ?
"I supposed yt to have been some noxiall fantasy,
As fallyth in dremes, in parties of the nyght,
Which cometh of joy or grievous malady ;
Or of robuste metes which causeth grete myght ;
Overmoche replct obscuryth the syght
J.N THE BRAI:-.;.
(Jf natural rensonne, ~tnd causyth idyll thowght,
Makyth the body hevy where hyt was lyght."
And again, in the tale of the " Nonnes Preest :"
"Swevenes (dreams) engendren of repletions,
And oft of fume and of complexions,
When humours ben to habundant in a wight.
Of other humours cou'd I telle also,
That werken many a man in slepe moch wo," &c.
289
Ev. I sit reproved, fair lady. Herodotus also says,
the Atlantes never dream; which Montaigne refers to
their never eating anything which has died of itself.
And Burton thus sums up his precepts of prevention :
"Against fearful and troublesome dreams, incubus,
and inconveniences wherewith melancholy men are mo-
lested, the best remedy is to eat a light supper and of
such meats as are easie of digestion, no hare, venison,
beef, &c. ; not to lie on his back," &c.
Dryden, to ensure his brilliant visions of poesy, ate
raw· flesh; and ~:frs. Radcliffe, I am told, adopted the
same plan. '\Ve know that green tea and coffee, if we
do sleep, induce dreaming; and Baptista Porta, for pro-
curing quiet rest and.Pleasing dreams, swallowed horse-
tongue after supper.
Indigestion, and that condition which is termed a
weak or irritable stomach, constitute a most fruitful
source of visions. The immediate or direct influence of
repletion, in totally altering the sensations and the dis-
position in waking moments, is a proof of its power to
derange the circulation of the brain and the mental
faculties in sleep.
" Sonmus ut sit levis, sit tibi crena brevis."
The influence of the great sympathetic nerve in this
respect is very important. 'Vith many persons, a meal
u
290 INFLUENCE OF DARK BLOOD
is usually followed by feelings of depression, impaired
memory, unusual timidity, despondency, and other illu-
sive characteristics of hysteria and hypochondriasis. And
events will appear of the greatest moment, which, after
the lapse of some hours, will be considered mere trifles.
So that, after all, there is some truth in the idea of that
arclueus, or great spirit, asserted, by Van Helmont; to
sit at the cardia of the stomach, and regulate almost all
the other organs.
The posture of supination will unavoidably induce
that increased flow of blood to .the brain which, under
certain states of this fluid, is so essential to the pro-
duction of brilliant waking thoughts ; an end, indeed,
attained so often by another mode-the swallowing of
opium.
A gentleman of high attainment was constantly
haunted by a spectre when he retired to rest, which
seemed to attempt his life. When he raised himself in
bed, the phantom vanished, hu~ reappeared as he resumed
the recumbentposture.
Some persons always retire to bed when they wish to
think; and it is well known that Pope was often wont
to ring for pens, ·ink, and paper, in the night, at Lord
Bolingbroke's, that he might record, ere it was lost,
that most sublime or fanciful poesy which flashed
through his brain as he lay in bed.- Such, also, was the
propensity of Margaret, Duchess of Newcastle, who
(according to Cibber, or rather Sheil, the real author of
the "Lives of the Poets") " kept a great many young
ladies about her person, who occasionally wrote what
she dictated. Some ofthem slept in a room contiguous
to that in which her grace lay, and were ready, at the
call of her bell, to rise any hour of the night to write
down her conceptions, lest they should escape her
memory."
Henricus ab Heeres (in his "Obs. ~1ed.") says, that
IN THE BIL\1~. 2!)1
when he was a professor, he used to rise in the night,
open his desk, compose much, shut his desk, and ~011in
to ·bed. On his waking he was. conscious of nothing
but the happy result of his compositions.
The engineer, Brindley, even retired to bed for a day
or two, when he was reflecting on a grand or scientific
project.
I deny not that the darkness or stillness of night
may have had some influence during this inspiration. I
may also allow that some few individuals compose best
while they are walking; but this peripatetic exertion is
calculated, itself, to produce what we term determination
of blood to the head. I have heard of a most remark-
able instance of the power of position in influencing
mental energy, in a German student, who was accus-
tomed to study and compose with his head on the
ground and his feet elevated, and resting against the
wall.
And this is the fragment of a passage from Tissot, on
the subject of monomania :
-- " Nous avons vu etudier dans cette academic
il n'y a pas long-terns, un jeune homme de meritc,
qui s'etant mis dantill:t~ de decouvrir la quadrature du
circle, est mort, fou, al'hotel Dieu, aParis."
You will smile when I tell you that the tints of the
landscap~ are brighter to our eyes if we reverse the posi-
tion of the head.
And now, with your leave, gentle ladies, I will bring
phrenology to my aid.
If we assume that there may be distinct portions of
the brain, organs of comparison, individuality, cau-
sality, &c., we naturally regard them as the source of
that combined faculty which we denominate judgment.
We might argue, that if these organs were permanently
deficient, fatuity, or, at least, extreme folly, would be
the result. By parity of reasoning we might infer,
u2
292 IXFLUENCE OF DARK BLOOD
that if the function of such organs were for a time sus-
pended, imagination, having lost its mentor, would, as
it were, run wild, and an extravagant dream, granting
an excitement, would. be the result. If the organ of
colour be excited, and form be asleep, we may haye an
eccentric drawing. If language and imagination are
both awake, a poem or romance ; so it rnay chance, that
if all the proper organs are awake, there may be a
rational dream.
I yield not to the too finely-spun hypotheses of Gall,
and his first whimsical topography of t;he cranium; the
incipie_nt idea of which, by the by, he owes to the Ara-
bian phrenologists who, even in the olden time, had
glimpses, although they decided on a different location.
Imagination was in the frontal region, reason in the
rnedial, and memory in the occipital.
In Dr. Spurzheim's beautiful demonstration of the
brain, he exhibits it almost as one large co~voluted
web. 'Yhile the ultra-phreno,ogist is unravelling these
convolutions, it is strange that he sees not the incon-
sistency ofhis cranial divisions. Some of the boundary
lines of his organs must he drawn across these convo-
lutions. ·It will ever be impossible to decide the exact
course of these, but the lines should be drawn in the
direction of their fibres; for if the faculty be· seated in
one convolution, that faculty would proceed in tlte course
of its fibres, and not across the fissure from one lobule
to another. Now the most frequent coincidence of the
possession of great mental power, with full deYelopment
of the frontal regio11- of the skull, will naturally lead us
to believe that it may depend on causation. Indeed a
skull, as well as expression, may be phrenologically
changed by culture or thought. The skull of lVilliam
Godwin, in early life, indicated an intellectual develop-
ment; then it became sensual, the occipital organs being
in excess; and again, as his mind wa~ subject to more
I ':'J 'rilE BRAIN, 293
moral culture, the intellectual or frontal again prevailed.
I am infonned, also, by ~Iiss A--, that there was ob-
serVed a progressive development of the intellectual
region in the head of her father, an acute and deep
thinker.
\Ve haYe analogies to this in physiognomy. Caspar
Hauser lost some of the negro fulncss about his mouth
after he had been introduced to society. Perhaps the
contl:asted beauty and deformity in the forehead and
eye, and in the mouth of Sheridan, was a faithful indi-
cation of that paradox of mind which was never more
perfectly displayed than in the intellectual dignity and
moral deficiency of this man. As no function, then,
either of brain or gland, can be carried on without a due
supply of blood, it \\ill follow that position may materi-
ally influence the integrity of these functions. The
seat of the organs I have alluded to, if cranial develop-
ment supports me, may_ be determiiled on the fore part
of the head, behind the osfrontis, portions of the cerebral
mass which, in the supine position, are usually most ele-
vated above the centre of circulation. "The more
noble the faculties, the higher are the organs situated."
1,hese, consequently;"~Y endure a deficiency of sti-
mulus, in comparison with other organs more favourably
situated. The phrenologist, then, will endeavour to
prove, that the supine position generally produces vas-
cular pressw·e on particular parts or organs of the
encephalon; and he will argue that dreams arise from
individual organs abstractedly or unconnectedly acting.
There is one spot on the cranium, indeed, identified by
Dr. Spurzheim as a most important item in the compo-
sition of a good dreamer. He tells us, that "persons
who have the part above and a little behind the organ
of ideality developed, are much prone to mysticism, to
see visions and ghosts, and to dream."
It may not be difficult to believe in this partial func-
294 INFLUENCE OF DARK BLOOD, ETC.
tion of the brain, when we recollect how often the loss
of one faculty will be connected with paralytic dis-
orders. The faculty of perception may be lost, unless
the impression on the mind is made through a parti-
cular sense. Thus patients may be unable to compre-
hend that name or subject when it was pronounced, or
related, which they will immediately do, if written do\vn
and presented to the sight,-the optic nerve may transmit
while the auditory has lost its power.
" Segnius irritant animos de1_nissa per aures,
Quam qure sunt ocuUs suhjeda fidelibus."
Of this axiom there is an illustrative story, by Dar-
win, in· his "Zoonomia."---:-A paralytic man could see
and hear, but the mind was conscious of vision only. If
the hour of breakfast were named to h~, he repeated it
and was passive ; but if the hour were pointed out on the
watch, he comprehended at once, and called for break-
fast.
On the contrary, there may be the same imperfection
of outward transmission; the lingual nerves, influencing
the tongue to sound a name inapplicable to the idea, the
person often reversing the names of articles which he is
continually using.
These phenomena regarding nerves of sense, then,
are strictly analogous to those which we recognize in
those parts of the brain which are intimately connected
with, or influenced by, these nerves of sense : thus in
analogy to waking illusions, we have the imperfect asso-
ciations of a dream when the organs are irregularly
acted on.
INCGBUS, OR NIGH'l'-~IAH.E.
" O'er ladies' lips, who strafght on kisses dream."
RoM£o .um Jcuet
" Let us be lead within thy bosom, Richard,
And weigh thee down."
Kum RicHARD Ill.
As-rn. I will no longer hesitate to grant that the dream
occurs in the moment of departing or returning con-
sciousness. Still, are you not reversing .the order of
these phenomena ? may not the excitement of vague
ideas in the mind,. be, itself, the cause of waking, and
not the consequence of slumber, or half-sleep?
Ev. I believe not, except the sensibility of the body
be influenced by touch, or sound, or by oppressive con-
gestions of blood in the brain, causing that state of dis-
turbance which reduces sound sleep to slumber; as in
the instance of "Night-mare," which is to the mind
what sensation is to the body, restoring it to a state of
half-consciousness, essential to that sort of dreaming, in
which we make a painful effort to relieve, and at last
awake.
CAsT. ~lara, by my fay! the night-spectre of Scan-
dinavia; that evil spirit of the Runic theology, who
weighed upon the bosom, and bereaved her victims of
296 INCUBUS, OR NIGHT-:\IARE.
speech and motion : that oppressive dream, therefore,
termed Hag-ridden, or, in the Anglo-Saxon, Elf-siderme.
Is it not she, of whom it is ·written,-
" We seem to run, and destitute of force,
Our sinking limbs forsake us in the course.
In Yain we heave for breath, in vain we cry;
The nerves unb:raeed, their usual strength deny,
And on the tongue the faltering accents die."
Ev. A very faithful picture.
Sound sleep will often be broken by pain or uneasi-
ness occurring in a particular part of the body; the
dream will then often bear an instructive reference to
the seat and nature of such pain. If cramp has attacked
any of the limbs, or the head has been long confined
back, the dream may be enlivened by some analogous
tortures in the dungeon of the Inquisition; ~nd it is
curious, that a waking '\\ish for some relieffrom unplea-
sant sensations "ill be re-e~cited in the dream,-a
dreamy fulfilment. Captain Back, during one of the
Arctic expeditions, when nearly in a state of starvation,
often dreamed of indulging in a delicious repast. And
Professor· Stewart thus writes,-" I have been told by a
friend, that, having occasion to apply a bottle of hot
water to his feet, he dreamed that he was making a
journey to the top of ~fount iEtna, and that he found
the heat of the ground insupportable. Another, having
a blister applied to the head, dreamed that he was
scalped by a party of Indians."
If on these occasions we are warm in bed, our dreams
will be often pleasing, and the scenes in the tropics; if
cold, or chilly, the reverse, and we shall believe our-
selves in Zembla.
Holcroft had been musing on the probabilities of life
and death, and one night went in pain to bed. He
dreamed his body was severed above hi~ hips, and again
I~CUllUS, OR NIGIIT-!\IAllE. '297
joined in a surpnsmg manner. He was astonished to
think he was alive, and afraid of being struck, lest the
parts should be dissevered.
Tempests heard in a slumber will be often associated
with a dream of shipwreck ; and some persons will
dream of their having given pain to, or injured, others :
they wake, and find some close analogy to tltei~ own
sensations.
It is recorded that Cornelius Rufus dreamed that he
was blind, and so indeed lte awoke.
In other eases, we have the double touclt, as it is
termed ; dreams of forcible detention occur, and the
sleeper has found that he had with one hand tightly
grasped the other. If this hand had been mm·ed in
sleep unconsciously, the dream, no doubt, would have
been essentially changed. And thus we have all the
phenomena realised, which Shaksperc has refen-ed to in
the visitations of his incorrigible l\fab.
Elliston was always awaked by nightmare when sleep-
ing in a strange bed.
As in some persons, by submitting the body to
certain impressions during sleep, associated dreams
may be produced at pleasure; so if the body or legs
hang over the side of a bed, we may instantly dream of
falling from a_
#ecipice : and it is curious that, under
these illusidns, we. awake when we are past hope
and our despair is at its height : in falling, at the
moment we are about to be dashed to atoms; and, in
drowning, when the last bubbles are gurgling in the
throat.
When we read in the Bodleian, Astrophel, I ,,~11
point you to other curious experiments of this sort, by
M. de Buzareingries.
Sounds also may be partly associated with the tlream
at waking, and with reality, when awake. Under this
illusive impression, even murder has been innocently
298 INCUBUS, OH. NIGHT-:MARE.
committed, on one, who waked, and stabbed his brother
at the moment he was dreaming of assassins.
CAST. And so may be explained, I suppose, this
funny anecdote. A young lover was drooping into a
day-dream, willie sitting with his brothers and sisters,
and his thought had turned on the cruelty of his mis-
tress. He was for a moment dreaming of her, when
pussy, stretching her paws, scratched his leg with a
claw : there was an instant association, I presume, of
the wound with the lady's cruelty, for he started and
exclaimed, " Oh Arabella, don't !'~
Ev. Hippocrates quaintly alludes to the dreaming
about seas and lakes as an indication of hydrothorax;
and to others, as symptomatic of ejfusion on the brain :
and it has been asserted, that gloomy dreams in fevers
indicate danger. But all this is hypothesis; indeed, the
delirious dreams of fever are often bright and ch~erful.
The "Opium-Eater'' has a strange fancy regarding his
dreams of" silvery expanses of ;water;" "these haunted
me so much, that I feared that some dropsical state or
tendency of the brain, might thus be making itself ob-
jective, and the sentient organ project itself as its own
object." I hope you understand this, Astrophel-1 do
not.
In the morbid condition of hypochondriasis, ·which is
a sort of permanent day,;,_are, similar fancies are excited.
Esquirol's patient at Notre Dame thought the pope
held council in her belly ;-her intestines were found
closely adherent together. Another monomaniac thought
the devil had stretched a cord across her stomach ;-her
heart was adherent to its bag. Another believed that
her body was stolen by the deYil ;-she was in reality
paralytic, and insensible to blows or pricking.
To explain some of these illusions, Jason Pratensis
very gravely asserts, that "the devil being a slender
incomprehensible spirit, can easily insi~uate and wind
INCUBUS, OR Nf0111'-:\IARE. '299
himself into human bodies, and, cunningly couched in
our bowels, terrify our souls with fearful dreams."
I may add that we see, in some, a delirious tran.'l-
migration of sensation. Parkinson relates these cases.
One referred his own sensation to others, telling his
nurse that his visitors were hungry, while his own
voracity plainly indicated that the hunger was in ltimse!J.
Another, in a fit of intoxication, insisted on undressing
all his family, as they were drunk, and could not do it
themselves.
Now we certainly move ourselves unconsciously in
our sleep as a relief from painful positions. If, how-
ever, these uneasy sensations are increased from stag-
nant blood about the heart and lungs, the oppression is
extreme, and loads the moving powers; producing a
transient agony and an intense effort. If this were un-
successful on the limbs and speech, the result would be
often destructive.
The night-mare dreamers are usually lethargic, and
their ideas are often wild and '\risionary.
Polidori, the author of the "Vampire," was a prey to
night-mare ; he died with a laudanum bottle in his bed.
And Coleridge might have thus left a sad and pointed
moral; blazgning-his "Tetched suicide to that world,
which unconsciously has pored with a thrill of admira-
tion over those fruits of his delinquency, the romantic
and unearthly stories of Christabel and the Ancient
l\fariner.
The grand feature of night-mare, then, is impediment:
but how can I record all its varieties of miserable strug-
gles ; of attacks and manglings from wild monsters : of
the rolling of mountains on the heart: or the unhal-
lowed embraces of a witch?
The young lady who reads mythology, will fancy
herself a syrinx, and struggle to escape from the amorous
clutches of Pan. If we have been thinking of Cha-
300 lXCl'BUS, OR ~IGHT-::\IARE.
mouni and her giant peaks of snow, we may be over-
whelmed in our sleep by the fall of an avalanche; or
we may be dashed off a precipice, and feel ourselves
falling into interminable space without a hope of
resting.
A lady whom I know, and who is a frequent subject
of night-mare, is very uniform in this dreamy occupa-
tion. She is shaken to and fro in her bed by fiends,
and the process seems to her to occupy considerable
time. And there are many who are tortured by the
feeling that they are buried alive, and attempt to cry
out, and beat against their coffin-lid in vain. Aurelian
writes, that the epidemics in Rome were premonished
by incubus.
These, and thousands of a similar kind, might be
cited ; but a vivid imagination, with a hint or two, ·will
readily create them at its pleasure.
" A battalion of French soldiers, during the toils and
dangers of a campaign, were. marching on a certain
point on a most oppress.ive day, and at double the
usual speed ; their strength was eight hundred men, all
hardy, seasoned, and courageous; careless of danger,
despising the devil, and little occupied with the thoughts
of ghosts and phantasmagoria. On the night of the
occurrence in question, the battalion was forced to
occupy a narrow and low building at Troprea, barely
calculated to accommodate three hundred persons.
Nevertheless, they slept; but, at midnight, one and all
were roused by frightful screams issuing from all quar-
ters of the house ; and to the eyes of the astonished
and affrighted soldiers appeared the vision of a huge
dog, which bounded in through the window, and rushed
with extraordinary heaviness and speed over the breasts
of the spectators. The soldiers quitted the building in
terror. Next night, by the solicitations of the surgeon
and cltef-de-bataillon, who accompanied tpem, they again
301
resumed their previous qua.rtcrs. '\Ve saw,' says the
narrator, 'that they slept. \Ve watched the arrival
of the hour of the preceding panic, and midnight had
scarcely struck when the veteran soldiers, for the second
time, started to their feet. Again they had heard the
supernatural voices, again the visionary hound had be-
strode them to suffocation. The cltef-de-bataillon and
myself heard or saw nothing of these events.'"
~he superstitious thought this spectre to be the
devil ; but the heat and carbonic acid ga.fl \verc, I
believe, enough for the excitement of the phantasm and
the feeling.
There can scarcely be imagined a more terrific feeling
than this sense of extreme danger, or difficulty, this
intense impediment, without a power to avert it. The
constant labour of Sisyphus, with his rolling-down
stone, and the punishment of Tantalus, would yield in
severity to the agony of night-mare, but for its transient
existence.
It seems to me, that this want of balance between
will and power influences human nature so much, that
life itself may be termed one long and painful incubus.
The actions we perform seldom reach the perfection
which the will ~ires. Hence arises that constant dis-
satisfaction, whiCh even the close approach to perfection
of some of the most accomplished professors of art and
science cannot avert.
'Ve must confess, with Socrates, that the extent of
our knowledge is indeed but a conviction of our igno-
rance. The metaphor of Sir Isaac Newton, on the in-
significance of his own scientific attainments, is well
known. Sir Joshua Reynolds so highly appreciated
perfection in his art, that he was ever discontented with
his own paintings; and frequently, as I have heard, by
repeated touches, destroyc'd the effect of a picture, which
had been in its early stages beautiful. And Dr. John-
302 DWUBUS, OR XIGHT-~IARE.
son, after astonishing the world with his perfect speci-
men of lexicographical composition, confessed that he
" had not satisfied his own expectations." ~lay I add
to these the frequent discontent of the unrivalled
Paganini?
InA. The desire ofthe mind is, indeed, unlimited; and
when this is intense, it wishes to appropriate to itself
all which it can comprehend. But disappointment must
ensue; for all wish to be the whole, when they form
but a part. Thus will ever be proved the futility of
worldly ambition,-it is never s_atisfied. But the de-
sires of religion are not a phantom, or an incubus.
True devotion, which aspires to heaven, as the hart
panteth for the water-brooks, "";n never fail. Its fer-
vent hopes and devout prayers, we believe, will be
blessed by their accomplishment.
CAsT. Then the \isitations of the incomparable ~lab
are nought but the infliction of the night-mare?· Gentle
Master Evelyn, how should I be aweary of your philo-
sophy,· but that I am half won· over to believe it true?
In good faith,
" The Gordian knot of it you do unloose
Familiar as your garter."
Ev. Then, I pray you, let me counsel you not to
court such visits, dear Castaly. There is some peril in
the touch both of ~lab and l\lara; for although rare and
transient cases of night-mare excite no alarm, yet its
repetition, in a severe form, is not to be slighted. It
sometimes has been the forerunner of epilepsy ; its im-
mediate cause being obstruction to the course of the
blood by which the brain especially is surcharged, and
the action of the lungs and heart impeded, as we prove
by the extreme labour of breathing at the time we
awake.
I believe that there is usually a fulnes.s of blood, also,
6
1:'-1CUBUS, OR NIGIIT-~lARE. 303
in the vessels of the spinal marrow ; as, although night~
mare may occur in the sittin.rJ, it is far more frequent in
the· 'recumbent position. 'rhus the marrow is oppressed,
and there is then no force transmitted by the nerves to
put the muscles into action.
Distention of the stomach should be prevented, as
the diaphragrn is thus pushed up against the lungs, and
the gas is accumulated in the cavity. All these con-
ditions often occur in our waking moods, but t!ten our
judgment tells us how to relieve them speedily; whereas,
in sleep, the load accumulates. All indigestible sub-
stances, therefore, should be avoided, as nuts, cucumbers,
shell-fish, &c.
Early and light suppers we advise to those whom
Madame Mara so unmercifully overlies. A mattrass
should be our couch, and we should endeavour to com-
pose ourselves on one side, having, previous to our rest,
taken gentle exercise.
SO:MNILOQUENCE.-SO~INA~IBULIS~I.
" It is a sleepy language; and thou 1peak'd
Out orthy sleep."
"DfJCt. You see, her eyes are open.
Gmt. Ay, but their tm~e is shut."
TEloiPEST.
" A great perturbation in nature.• To receive at once the benefit o! sleep,
and do the effect or watching." MAcBETH.
Ev. In the common dream, ideas float through the
mind, but the body is passive. "\vnen the power of ex-
pressing these ideas by speech is added, it is somnilo-
quence. ''TI!en there is the conscious, yet powerless, "'ill
to move, it is incubus. "\Vhen the unconscious power of
moving in accordance with the ideas or wishes of the
dream exists, it is somnambulism.
The common dreams of sleep are not unfolded to us
until the waking recollections of the dreamer relate
them; but the matter of a dream may be half developed
during its existence, by the curious propensity to un-
conscious talking and walking in the sleep.
Sleep-talking is the slightest of these phenomena,
and, indeed, closely resembles the speaking reveries of
some absent people, and the raving of a maniac. The
sleep is, at this time, little deeper than a reverie.
The voice of the somniloquist is usually natural, but
80'!\0HJ.OQU.ENCE. 305
as again, in the cases of mania and of delirious excite-
ment, a common voice may become sweetly melodious,
and there will be an imparted fluency allied to the in-
spiration of the improvisatorc.
Indeed, in some young ladies, subject to hysteria, I
have known, at certain periods as it were, a new accom-
plishment-a style of singing which was far beyond
their power in waking moments. Dr. Dewar relates a
case of a girl who, when awake, discovered no know-
ledge of astronomy or the sciences in any way; but
when she was asleep she would define the rotations of
the seasons, using expressions the most apt to the sub-
ject, such as "the globe ·is now set agee." It is pro-
bable that this was the memory in slumber of some
geographical lesson which she had heard, but did not
remember while her senses were active, that is, in her
waking moments. And an American lady, during a
fever, commenced a course of nocturnal prating, com-
posing most eloquent sermons, chiefly made up, how-
eve!, of remembered texts of Scripture.
I am informed, too, that a lady of Edinburgh, during
her somnolent attacks, recited somewhat lengthy poems;
and it was curious to__!!Qtice that each line commenced
with the final letter/of the preceding.
These sleep-talkings are sometimes the mere lispings
of an idiot; although Astrophel, perchance, may con-
tend that the following, written down from the lips of a
servant-maid, is a proof of special inspiration, convert-
ing a rustic girl into an improvisatrice.
" You may go home and wash your hose,
And wipe the dew-drops from your nose,
And mock no maiden here.
For you tread down grass, and need not ;
\Vear your shoes, and speed not,
And clout leather's very dear ;
But I need not care, for my sweetheart
Is a cobbler."
X
306 SOli.XILOQUEXCE.
I have heard this trash cited as a proof of facility of
composition in slumber. You do not believe it such;
like other specimens, it was a ruse of a wanton girl to
excite admiration. In the magnetic somnambulism of
Elizabeth Okey, that cunning little wench, who was the
prima huffa of the magnetic farces enacted at the North
London Hospital, would often skip about and sing
snatches of equal elegance:
" I went into a tailor's shop
To buy a suit of clothes ;
But where the money came from,
G- Almighty knows."
These are indeed the very burlesque of somniloquence.
And yet Okey was an invalid, and presumed on the
credulity of those who ministered to her.
True somniloquence is often preceded by a cataleptic
state; and in girls like this, the senses are often ·so dull,
that the firing of a pistol close to the ear does not rouse
them, until the poetic fit is ove~.
CAsT. "\Vere sleep-talking more common, it would
indeed be a very dangerous propensity. If the con-
fessor were to prate in his sleep of the peccadilloes of
the fair penitents that kneel at his confessional ; if the
minister on his couch were to divulge his state secrets
or his fine political schemes; where would be the tran-
quillity of domestic or national society? Yet the lips of
the love-sick maiden have not seldom whispered in
sleep her bosom's secret; and sometimes the uncon-
scious tongue has awfully betrayed even the blood-stain
on the hand.
Thus did the ill-mated Parisina of Byron :
"Fever'd in her sleep she seems,
And red her cheek with troubled dreams ;
And mutters she, in her unrest,
A name she dare not bl"('athc by day."
SO!\I:\' A:\IBUJ.IS!\1. 307
,.rhe fate of Eugene Arum, I believe, may be imputed
to such an unfortunate propensity ; and in Lady Mac-
beth's "Out, damned spot!" was confessed her partici-
pation in the murder of Duncan and the grooms.
Somewhat like this, too, was the half-sleeping excla-
mation of Jarvis 1\fatcham, after he had committed the
murder of the drummer boy. Starting from his bed,
when roused by the waiter, his first words were: "l\1y
God ! I did not kill him."
Ev. A dream will sometimes halfwake even a child
to a state of terror, although children are ·with difficulty
completely roused. I have known instances in which
children would sit up in bed, with their eyes open,
sobbing, and talking, and staring, in a sort of trance;
nay, they will sometimes start from bed, but still asleep,
and, after a time becoming calm, they have again com-
posed themselves to slumber.
I have known sleep-talkers, who have not remembered
one iota of their wanderings when awake; and even
th~ ecstatic somna~bulist, who pretends to prophecy
wisdom, recollects nothing when the ecstacy is over.
It is clear also, that the mind varies in sleep and wak-
ing, in regard to it~ry; for it has been proved
that persons who often talk in their sleep, have renewed
the exact points of a subject which terminated their
last sleep-talking, although, in the waking interval, it
was to them oblivion.
Somnambulism is the most perfect paradox among
the phenomena of sleep, as it exhibits actions without a
consciousness of them ; indeed, so complete a suspen-
sion of sensibility, that contact, nay, intense inflictions,
do not produce that mental consciousness which is
calculated to excite alarm, or even attention.
There is a somewhat remote analogy to this, in the
want of balance between the judgment and volition of
ambitious minds. In the campaign of Russia, Napo-
x 2
308 SOMNAMBUI~ISM.
leon's march was a sort of somnambulism, for he must
have been madly excited to action against his better
judgment. In this he forms a curious contrast with
his royal predecessor; for in Louis XVI. we observe a
mind that might conceive great things, but which voli-
tion hesitated to accomplish.
The points of the mystery of somnambulism were
never more forcibly illustrated, to my own mind, than
in the following cases :
In 1833, a man was brought before Alderman Thorp,
who had a parcel cut from his ~rm, although he had
strapped it tightly on to prevent this, as he was qften
£1.lling asleep, even during his walk. Yet, even then,
he usually took the parcels to their proper directions.
The crew of a revenue boat on the coast of Ireland,
about two o'clock in the morning, picked up a man
swimming in the water. He had, it appeared, left his
house about twelve ; and walked two miles over ·a most
dangerous path, and had swum about one mile. After
he was taken into the boat, he 'could not be persuaded
that he was not still in his warm bed at home.
In 1834, Marie Pau was admitted into the hospital
at Bordeaux, her left hand and arm covered with deep
and bleeding gashes, its tendons projecting and the
bones broken. She had, in her sleep, gone into a loft
to cut wood with a hedging bill. Thinking she was
cutting the wood, she had hacked her fore-arm and
hand, until she fainted away, and fell bathed in her
blood. She hadfelt no pain, but merely had a sensation
as if the parts were pricked with pins.
Some time ago, (I believe in the year 1832,) a journal
thus records a case analogous in its nature, although less
unhappy in its effects :
" Some fishermen at Le Conquest, near Brest, were
surprised at finding, at two o'clock in the morning, a
boy about twelve years old, up to his w.aist in the sea,
•
SO:\IN Al\IB eLISll. 309
fishing for flounders, of which he drew up five or six.
Their surprise however was increased to wonder, when,
ori approaching him, they found .that he was fast asleep.
He was taken home and put to bed, but was imme-
diately afterwards attacked with a raging fever.
ln.A. These walkers were of low degree; I presume
philosophy is not altogether exempt from the fault.
Ev. Oh no: Galen was a somnambulist ; and Frank-
lin assures us, that in a warm bath at Southampton, he
floated on his back nearly an hour in his sleep.
Now that there is an apathy of the senses during
somnambulism is clear, for the eyelids are unclosed,
and if a candle be held to the eye of the somnambulist,
the actions of the iris are seen, but there is seldom
aversion of the head to avoid the glare. 'Vas lVIrs.
Siddons aware of this, when she smelt to her bloody
hand, but did not look upon it ? In sleep-walking, in-
deed, there is always one at least of the five senses
asleep. The actions of somnambulists often appear
almost automatic without a reason for them; somewhat
resembling instinct, as the beaver will still build his
dome for shelter, even under a roof; or as monomaniacs
will do a work in tkceeo:i]our different places, forgetful
of their previous labour. It is evident, too, that there
is a dulness of reflection when the progress is impeded.
The somnambulist wJl try to move on in a straight line,
overturning things in his course: thus ~Iathews, in
Somno, overturned the tables, but had not the judgment
to go round them. Under very great obstruction to
their progress, the somnambulists will sometimes burst
into tears.
Gall relates the ease of a miller, who every night got
up and worked in his mill, asleep; and ~Iartinet, of a
saddler, who also worked nightly in his sleep; and Dr.
Pritchard, of one who had been subject to epileptic fits,
thus : "They ceased entirely until the nineteenth year
310 SOli~Al\IBULISll.
of his age, when he became a somnambulist, working
during the night at his trade as a saddler, getting out
on the roof of the house, going out to walk, and occu-
pying himself in a thousand various ways. Soon after
this the fits of epilepsy reappeared, occurring every
five or six days, increasing in duration, and commenc-
ing from that time only with a sensation of heat, which
from the epigastrium rapidly e~tended to the head, and
produced complete insensibility. He was, at various
times, relieved by bleeding; and, in the twenty-fourth
year of his age, being then a soldier, he escaped three
months without a return of his· epilepsy. In the
following year, he was astonished to find himself one
night on the roof of the house, wet with rain; the im-
pression which he thence conceived, produced, some
time afterwards, an attack of epilepsy, followed by
contraction of his fingers and toes."
In many cases, however, there is some predetermi-
nate motive for the walk, which. excites the memory in
the sleep. The somnambulist has been thinking deeply,
ere he retires to rest, and the walk occurs early in the
night; so that we might believe a mood of m~sing had
really prevented sleep, and itself been the cause of the
phenomena.
Thus may be explained the miracle recorded by Ful-
gosius. l\iarcus, the freedman of Pliny, dreamed that
a barber, sitting on his bed, had shaved him, and awoke
well trimmed;-l\iarcus had unconsciously shaved llimself.
And also other cases related by Dr. Pritchard, of
which I will offer you a fragment.
"-- He is just recovering from a singular state of
reverie, in which he has passed twenty-four hours. It
began in the evening, with a rigor, which continued
more or ]ess the whole night. From that time he re-
mained constantly in motion, walking up and down the
room or about the house. He kept his eyes open. but
SO!\INAllll U LIS!\1. 311
was unconscious of external impressions; sometimes he
muttered to himself, and by his gestures and the mo-
tions of his hands it appeared that he fancied himself
to be working in his usual occupation. In this state
he remained all the ensuing night and a part of the
following day. During that time, he never ate or drank
any thing in a natural manner; he sometimes caught
hold of a piece of bread, and, having bitten it hastily,
tht:ew it down, and drank in the same way, immediately
continuing his work. If he was spoken to, he was
some time without taking any notice, and then would
reply hastily, as a person does who is disturbed by a
question when in a reverie."
Our study of these curiosities of mind teaches us how
intimately combined in their essence are all the species
of illusion.
Somnambulism is a very common feature in epileptic
idiots. In confirmed insanity also, we observe in an
intense degree that fearless daring and almost preter-
natural power which characterise somnambulism. A
Highland woman, in a state of puerperal mania, which
was increased by. a: terrific dream, escaped to the gorges
of the mountain, and Jreroea with the deer. She be-
came so fleet of foot that it was impossible to overtake
her. One day, an awful tempest drove her and her
"velvet companions" ·to the valleys, when she was se-
cured. Providence, which " tempers the wind to the
shorn lamb," had covered her body with hair.
The dreamer walks and talks with imaginary people,
-spectral illusion. The following is a perfect illustra-
tion of this night-fantasy. It is a story told to Sir
""alter Scott by a Lisbon trader:-
"Somnambulism and other nocturnal deceptions lend
their aid to the formation of such phantasmata as arc
formed in the middle state betwixt sleeping and waking.
A most respectable person, whose active life had been
312 SOl\INAMllULISM.
spent as master and part-owner of a large merchant
vessel in the Lisbon trade, gave an account of such an
instance, which came under his observation. He was
lying in the Tagus, when he was put to great anxiety
and alarm by the following incident and its conse-
quences :-One of his crew was murdered by a Portu-
guese assassin, and a report arose that the _ghost of the
slain man haunted the vessel. Sailors are generally
superstitious, and those of my friend's vessel became
unwilling to remain on board the ship ; and it was pro-
bable they might desert, rather than return to England
with the ghost for a passenger. To prevent so great a
calamity, the captain determined to examine the story
to the bottom. He soon found that, though all pre-
tended to have seen lights and heard noises, and so
forth, the weight of the evidence lay upon the state-
ment of one of his own mates, an Irishman and a catho-
lic, which might increase hls tendency to super~tition ;
but in other respects a veraciqus, honest, and sensible
person, whom Captain S. had no reason to suspect
would ·wilfully deceive him. He affirmed to Captain
S., with the deepest obtestations, that the spectre of the
murdered man appeared to him almost nightly, took
him from his place in the vessel, and, according to his
own expression, worried his life out. He made these
communications with a degree of horror, which inti-
mated the reality of his distress and apprehensions.
The captain, without any argument at the time, pri-
vately resolved to watch the motions of the ghost-seer
in the night, whether alone, or with a witness, I have
forgotten. As the ship-bell struck twelve, the sleeper
started up with a ghastly and disturbed countenance,
and lighting a candle proceeded to the galley, or cock-
room, of the vessel. He sat down with his eyes open,
staring before him, as on some terrible object which
he beheld with horror, yet from which. he could not
SO~lNAMBULIS~l. Jl~l
withhold his eyes. After a short space he arose, took
up a tin can or decanter, filled it with water, muttering
to himself all the while, mixed salt in the water, and
sprinkled it about the galley. Firially, he sighed deeply,
like one relieved from a heavy burden, and, returning
to his hammock, slept soundly. In the next morning,
the haunted man told the usual precise story of his
apparition, with the additional circumstances that the
ghost had led him to the galley; but that he had for-
tunately, he knew not how, obtained possession of some
holy water, and succeeded in getting rid of his unwel-
come visitor. The visionary was then informed of the
real transactions of the night, with so many particulars
as to satisfy him he had been the dupe of his imagina-
tion. He acquiesced in his commander's reasoning,
and the dream, as often happens in these cases, returned
no more after its imposture had been detected."
The case I am about to relate occurred within _my
own experience.
A butcher's boy, about sixteen years old, apparently
in perfect health, after dosing a few minutes in his
chair, suddenly started up, and began to employ him-
self about his usual JivoCat1ons. He had saddled and
mounted his horse, and it was with the greatest diffi-
culty that those around him could remove him from the
saddle and carry him within doors. 1-Vhile he was held
in the chair by force, he continued violently the actions
of kicking, whipping, and spurring. His observations
regarding orders from his master's customers, the pay-
ment at the turnpike-gate, &c. were seemingly rational.
The eyes when opened were perfectly sensible to light.
It appears that flagellation even had no effect in restor-
ing the patient to a proper sense of his condition. 'l11C
pulse in this case was 130, full and hard; on_ the
abstraction of thirty ounces of blood it sunk to 80,
and diaphoresis ensued. After labouring under thb
314 SOliXAliBULISll.
phrenzy for the space of an hour, he became sensible ;
was astonished at what he was told had happened, and
stated that he recollected nothing subsequent to his
having fetched some water and moved from one chair to
another, which indeed he had done immediately before
his delirium came on.
CAsT. In the monastery of--, this story was told
to a party of Alpine travellers, to beguile our winter's
evening.
A melancholic nobleman of Italy, Signor Augustin,
walked usually at the waning of. the moon. The walk
was always preceded by his lying on his back, with
eyes fixed and open. At this time the beatings of his
heart were scarcely perceptible. During. this state, he
noticed none of his companions around him; but if any
noise was made by them, his steps were hurried and
agitated, and if the noise was increased, a sort.of ma-
niacal state was induced. In his sleep he would saddle
and mount his horse, he would ,listen at a key-hole if he
heard noises in another room, and, if he entered his
billiard-room, he would seem to be playing with the
cue. On returning to his bed, he usually slept for ten
hours after his walk. Tickling would always rouse
him.
In a Gazette of Augsburg, I have read this sad story:
"Dresden was the theatre of a melancholy spectacle on
the 20th ult. As early as seven in the morning a female
was seen walking on the roof of one of the loftiest
houses in the city, apparently occupied in preparing
some ornaments as a Christmas present. The house
stood as it were alone, being much higher than those
adjoining it, and to draw her from her perilous situation
was impossible. Thousands of spectators had assem-
bled in the streets. It was discovered to be a handsome
girl, nineteen years of age, the daughter of a master
baker, possessing a small independence. bequeathed to
SOliNAM B 1J L "l s:u. 3 15
her by her mother. She continued her terrific prome-
nade for hours, at times sitting on the parapet and
dressing her hair. The police came to the spot, and
various means of preservation were resorted to. In a
few minutes the street was thickly strewn with straw,
and beds were called for from the house, but the heart-
less father, influenced by the girl's stepmother, refused
them. Nets were suspended from the balcony of the
first floor, and the neighbours fastened sheets to their
windows. All this time the poor girl was walking in
perfect unconsciousness, sometimes gazing toward the
moon, and at others singing or talking to hcrsel£ Some
persons succeeded in getting on the roof, but dared not
approach her for fear of the consequences if they awoke
her. Towards eleven o'clock she approached the very
verge of the parapet, leaned forwards, and gazed upon
the multitude beneath. Every one felt that the mo-
ment of the catastrophe had arrived. She rose up,
however, and returned calmly to the window by which
she ·had got out. 1Vhen she saw there were lights in
the room she uttered a piercing shriek, which was re-
echoed by thousands below, and fell dead into the
street." ~
Such would have been the result, according to poe-
tical justice, in the beautiful romance of" La Sonnam-
bula." Had Amina been awakened while she was
descending, she would probably have toppled down
headlong 1
Ev. Custom would render these wakings less formid-
able perhaps. There was a fam,ily alluded to by Dr.
'Villis, in which the father and many sons jostled each
other nightly in their sleep-walk. This was IJrobably
but a cheerful recognition and to sleep again.
In Fraser's Magazine is recorded a very curious story
of this sort. If I remember right, an individual had
the mortification of discovering every morning when he
6
316 SO~I~ A~IB ULIS:\1.
awoke, that the shirt in which he had slept was gone.
Some trick was supposed to have been played upon
him by an inmate of the house ; and, thinking that the
practical joke would soon be abandoned, he w~nt on day
after day, till his stock of linen was completely ex-
hausted. The individuals of the family were now
an."riously examined, but no tidings of the stray linen
could be obtained. It was at last suspected that some
depredator had entered the ··house and unswathed his
sleeping victim, and a strict watch was made on the
following night. At a suitable hour the somnambulist
was seen to quit his bed, to pass through a skylight
window to the roof of the house, to enter by another
·window a garret that was always locked, and to 1·eturn
shirtless to his lair. The garret was examined, and the
thousand and one shirts were found carefully \\'Tapped
up and deposited in a pyramid. .
Something like this is the story of the spectre of
Tappington, in the Ingoldsby ,legends.
The actions, therefore, unlike the ideas of a dream,
are often neither heterogeneous ·nor inconsistent, and it
is astonishing to observe the exactness with which the
work is executed.
Dr. Pritchard tells the case of a farmer who arose,
saddled his horse, and rode to market in his sleep :
the Archbishop of Bordeaux the case of a student,
who composed both theological essays and music thus
unconsciously.
Now if the dreamer be awakened, he will relate the
circumstances of his dream clearly ; but the somnam-
bulist, if roused, will generally express himself uncon-
scious of what he intended, or of what he had done. It
is, by the bye, often dangerous, on another account, to
wake the sleep-walker; indeed, we have recorded the
case of a young lady who was walking in a garden in
her sleep; she was awoke, and almost ipstantly died.
SO~I~A~IBl"hiS.M. 1'7
But in some future somnambulism the same actions
will be again performed unheeded. And if there be
memory of the sleep-walk, the somnambulist, I believe,
always relates his actions as the mere ideas of a dream,
and is long a sceptic of the fact, even if there arc visible
signs of his exertions.
CAsT. I can illustrate this question from the recol-
lection and knowledge of an ancestor of my own. Early
on a mon1ing, an immense number of foot-prints were
observed by the men about a gate (on a farm in Sussex),
which were not there overnigltt. On their return the
servant girl was relating her dream; that she was told
the cows had got into a wrong field, and that she had
gone out, opened the gate, and driven them back. And
I remember reading that a young gentleman of Bren-
stein was seen to rise, get out of his window on the roof,
and take a brood of young magpies from their nest, and
wrap them in his cloak. He then returned quietly to
his bed, and in the morning related !tis dream to his two
brothers. They had slept with him, and had witnessed
this feat, of which he would not be persuaded until they
showed him the birds in his cloak.
I interrupt you, Evelyn~----
Ev. It is evident, as in dreams, and in rare cases of
disease, that the mind of the somnambulist is often a
contrast to its waking faculty. The memory will leap
over intervals. Dr. Dyce records an illustration of this.
A girl, in a state ofsomnambulism, was taken to church,
and wept at the subject of the sermon. She never ad-
verted to this impression when she awoke; nor could
she be brought to recollect it until, in her next sleeping
paroxysm, she spoke of it distinctly.
In delirium, also, we see these intervals of thought.
The patient will commence a subject in the delirious
state; when this has subsided, the subject is dropped.
In the next attack of delirium it will again be started,
318 ANALYSIS OF SLEEP-WALKING.
ay, and at the very point, even the word itself, at which
it was broken off.
'Ve read, in an American journal, that a man, pre-
vious to an attack of mania which lasted several years,
had placed his ·work tools in the hollow of a tree. . To
them no allusion was made during the period of his
disorder. 'Vhen, however, this passed off, he directed
his son to fetch them, believing that he left them only
yesterday.
In the same book, too, we learn of that lady who be-
came maniacal as she was engagecl. in needle-work. For
seven years she thought not of this; but directly she
recovered, she asked for her needle-work and canvass.
The same may occur in intoxication also, which is but
another form of delirium. In :Mr. Combe's work we
are told of a drunken man who left a parcel at a wrong
house. When sober, he recollected nothing of the cir-
cumstance ; but when again intoxicated, he soon re-
membered his error, and reclaimed the parcel.
AsTR. These cases form high contrasts with Ham-
let's proof of insanity:
- " Bring me to the test,
.And I the matter will reword, which madness
'\Vou'd gambol from."
Ev. Yet if you analyze their nature you will find
them even proofs of derangement; for you thus see that
the faculty of memory is changed according to the state
of mind. In the following case, by Dr. Abercrombie,
we shall find the same variation in impression and
taste. A girl, in her early youth, expressed her abhor-
rence of tunes played on the violin, which she termed a
discordant fiddle. She was after this introduced into
more refined society, and "became a somnambulist.
During her paroxysm she imitated the beautiful airs
which she said she had formerly heard on this same
violin.
A~Al,YSIS 01<' SLEEP· W .,\I.KI~G. :H9
Lieutenant C-- was once my patient, and died a
maniac. 'I'he insanity arose from thwarted ambition,
and·was confirmed by his notion that he had seen his
death-fetch. For some time he walked and talked in
his sleep ; subsequently he would walk for an hour
round the table unconsciously. In him, too, was this
change of feeling. He once talked little, and cared less
for his child; but now he would caress it fondly, and
expressed the deepest anxiety for it. It 'vas difficult to
decide, at times, whether this gentleman was awake or
not; indeed, these states of mania, which have been
termed " melancholia errabunda" by Bellini and Mont-
alti, are closely allied to somnambulism, for the walker
is absorbed in deep thought, and totally unconscious of
his actions. And the analogy appears to have been re-
cognised by the law. It is well known that the brother
of Lord Colepeper, who was a great dreamer and som-
nambulist, shot a guardsman and his horse. He was
found guilty; but he was pardoned on the ground of his
complete unconsciousness in his somnambulism.
'Ve do not wonder more to see the perfection with
which these unconscious labours of the somnambulist
are performed, than at the ease and power which is
evinced, and the very slight fatigue which ensues ;
although the occupation might have been most la-
borious.
As in chorea the most delicate girls will dance inces-
santly for twenty-four hours, resting merely for one
sole hour ; and yet they will sit down perfectly cool and
free from fatigue.
InA. Is it not wonderful that the somnambulist will
incur great dangers with complete sang-froid? rrhey
will walk over
--" Ton-ents roaring loud,
On the unsteadfast footing of aspear ;"
or scale the gigantic precipice, the mere contemplation
320 A'NALYSIS OF SLEEP-WALKING.
of which would fright their mind from its propriety,
when awake. I remember to have read of a French
Je\v, who walked by chance across a dangerous pass
over a brook, in the dark, ·without the slightest fear or
harm. The next day, perceiving what danger he had
incurred, he fell down dead.
Ev. It is equally curious that a concentration· of
nervous energy, which is here the result of unconscious-
ness, should also be produced by fear in some cases,
which, in others, paralyses; but this is indeed a slight
degree of heroism, or energy of despair. Thus we leap
far higher, and run much faster, when danger threatens,
than we could believe.
These are all very apt illustrations of somnambulism.
I will check myself in quotations of more, as the phe-
nomena may closely resemble each other.
But what is its philosophy, and how can I venture
on its explanation, which involves the most intricate
pathology of the nervous syste.m ? unless, with the self-
complacency of quaint old Burton, I cut the Gordian
knot by this affirmation,-" There is nothing offends
but a concourse of bad humours, which trouble the
phantasy. These vapours move the phantasy, the
phantasy the appetite, which, moving the animal spirits,
causeth the body to walk up and down, as if it were
awake."
Thus much I may expound to you, if I am ~o-ain
allowed to run up our scientific scale. The philosophy
of the dream and of incubus refers to the activity of the
brain with a passive body; for somnambulism, we re-
quire an active body, with an unconscious brain.
Now there are four sources of nervous influence:-
the brain and cerebellum, ·within the skull; the manow
in the spinal canal ; and the nervous bundles in the
large cavities, termed ganglia.
It is on the independent or unconscious ftmction of
ANALYSIS OF SL,EEI'-WAI~KIXG. 32l
the marrow, chiefly, that those mysterious actions,
which do not seem to be willed by a conscious mind,
depend.
In the day-dream, a thought or fonn shall present
itself, even at a time when the mind is employed on
subjects of a contrasted nature. These thoughts, or
forms, are usually fraught with a high degree of plea-
sure or of pain, or refer to events of vital importance,
to the dreamer ;-such are the objects of the lover's
idolatry, the anticipation of misfortune, or subjects of
prospective felicity. Under this excitement, the in-
fluence of external objects is often for a time lost; the
retina may be struck by a ray, or the membrana tympani
by a vibration, but the mind shall fail in its perception,
-no internal impression being made. This cannot
arise from a point of the retina, or ~he expansion of the
auditory nerve being·pre-occupied, as some have sup-
posed. The idea of material impression must fail in
explanation; for, on the instant that the mind is awak-
ened, the external impression is again perceived. The
external sense, in this case, is not in fault; nor is its
direct influence on the sensorium suspended ; for we
find that a person .will continue to read in this state, as
it were mechanically; but the attention is diverted by
deep thought, so that the reader, at the end of his
task, may have no remembrance of what he has been
reading.
Let me tell of a curious little episode of Dr. Darwin's,
which will aid me in my illustration. A young lady
was playing on the piano a very elaborate piece of
music. It was correctly and scientifically perfonned,
although she was agitated during her task; and when
it was over, the lady burst into tears. She had been
watching all the time a favourite canary in the flutter-
ing of death; and with this catastrophe her mind was
almost wholly occupied, but her fingers did not err in
y
322 A:NAI~YSIS OF Sl~EEP-WALKIXG.
their complicated and delicate motions, which they un-
doubtedly would have done, if the will or mind alone
had directed them.
In sanity of mind, and in mania, the most philo-
sophical distinction is based on the health or disease of
memory. The ecstacy of madness may not seem per-
haps more irrational than an ecstatic vision, but the
maniac will not re-word the matter; whereas the mere
visionary will repeat the action of the trance as a
dream.
AsTR. But there is a sort of .somnambulism the re-
verse of this. In the retreat to Corunna, many of the
soldiers, although exhausted by a long march, and hav-
ing actually fallen asleep, continued to move forwards,
leaving their companions behind, who halted and laid
down to repose.
Ev. This is the continued association of that excite-
ment which has produced muscular motion. Tbe mind
was exhausted and sleepy, the ,brain was inert; but we
believe that the spinal marrow does, of itself, effect
motion, while the will and consciousness sleep ; and we
may also stand and sleep. These soldiers did not walk
in their sleep, but slept. in their walk.
AsTR. I am informed, too, that Richard Turpin, in
allusion to his famous flight to York, asserted that
Black Bess appeared to gallop unconsciously.
Ev. It is true; and when we reflect on this gigantic
feat, we may suppose that the mare gallopped the far-
tlier, because her consciousness offatigue was not awake,
and her muscular energy was thus concentrated.
Paralyzed muscles will often quiver when the sound
limb is quiet; the brain's influence being, in this case
too, inert, sensation is diminished ; but involuntary
motion continues from a habit in the muscle, or the ex-
citement of unexhausted irritability, as in chorea, spasm,
&c. And in some cases of post morte'!~ galvanism, Dr.
A~AI..YSIS OF St..EEP-WALKI~O. 323
Dunbar, of Virginia, passed the galvanic aura along the
ulnar nerve of an executed negro, and the fingers in-
stantly quivered, and assumed the attitude and action
of one playing on a flute or the strings of a violin.
AsTR. It is possible, then, to move without our will-
ing to do so, or being conscious of our act.
Ev. There are believed to be, indeed it is almost a
demonstration,-four sets of nerves, traced along the
spinal marrow. Two to the brain, of sensation and
volition, by which the mind feels what the body touches,
and transmits its will to the muscles; two others to the
marrow, by \vhich it also is stimulated by outward
touch, and by which it excites the muscles to motion.
Now when the brain's influence is kept from muscle,
that muscle will still possess irritability, derived from the
spinal marrow; nay, that initability will be greater, he-
cause it has not been expended by the acts of that volition,
which resides solely in the brain, and which is now cut
off. Thus the e.xcito-motory function, and the influence
of,volition, are in these cases antagonists. And this
principle of the incident and reflex spinal nerve is an
explanation of the curious dilemma, regarding the sus-
pension of the will in sleep and dream, to which Dr.
Stewart alludes.-" Not a suspension of volition, but
only of its influence over those organs, which it moves
when we are awake." Decide for yourselves between
the physical and metaphysical theories.
Yet, do you not see that all this does not essentially
require the direction of mind? If you tickle the palm
of a sleeping child, ,it will close its hand upon your
finger; if you awake it, and engage its attention, it will
often leave its hold. This is a fact proved by the
anencephalous or brainless children. Even the puppy,
deprived of its brain, and also the mammary jlEtUIJ.es of
the kangaroo and opossum, fix eagerly on the nipple
when it touches their lips. There is a beautiful me-
Y2
324 ANALYSIS OF SLEEP-WALKI~G.
chanism in the foot of the roosting birds, adapted to
this physiological law. The tendon of the claws is
tightened immediately they are touched, by which action
they contrive to grasp the bough or perch even when
asleep. In cases of paralysis eYen, the foot will some-
times be instantly drawn up, although it does not pos-
sess the least sensation; we may assert, then, that irri-
tability is in an inverse ratio to sensibility.
The polype, in which we trace no brain or nerve, ex-
ists and moves by its irritability, and without sensation
or consciousness. 'Ve know also that the t,'is insita, or
vis nervosa of a muscle, that is, its irritability, exists
even after the animal life has ceased. The turtle will
live and move long after its brain has been removed.
The heart itsel(, an involuntary muscle, is stimulated
also to action without sensation. The heart of the
assassin, Bellingham, beat long after he was cu~ from
the gallows.
If I have made these thing~ clear, I am now pre-
pared to explain, with some anticipation, those two
curious contrasts, somnambulism and incubus. If the
spinal or motive nerves be asleep, and the cerebral or
intellectual, or volition nert"es, awake, we shall have
night-mare ; if, on the contrary, the motive nerves are
in excess, beyond the sensiferous or volition nerves, we
have sleep-walking.
AsTR. I believe the philosophy of Leibnitz affirms
two perceptions; one· with, and another without, con-
sciousness. I do not recollect if he distinguishes the
seat of these perceptions; but, if th~.brain be that which
perceives, I presume consciousness '\Vill follow that per-
ception sometimes in so slight a degree as not to excite
judgment or reflection. Am I correct?
Ev. You have adopted the common error o( meta-
physicians. I(, in the abstraction of waking moments,
some persons talk to themselves, as ~t were uncon-
ANALYSIS OF SJ~EEP-WALKl:NG. 325
sciously, so, from the reflex influence, may volition and
motion occur, with as little self-feeling. That the im-
mediate imp~cssion, however, and a necessity of action,
may combine, is illustrated by Dr. Beattie's case of the
officer who could be thus excited in his sleep. By a
whisper in his ear, he was induced to go through the
whole ceremony of a duel, and did not completely wake
until the report of his pistol roused him. This gentle-
man was also told that he had fallen overboard, and he
began to imitate the motions of swimming ; then that a
shark was following him, when he would dive off his
couch upon the floor; a11-d when he was told that the
battle was raging around him, he proved himself an
arrant coward by running away.
Somnambulism may be induced by congestion or
irritation of that point where the incident nerve blends
with the grey matter of the spinal marrow, producing
internal irritation, as the tickling ofthe fopt does through
the cutaneous nerves of a senseless limb.
CAsT. We are thankless creatures, dear Evelyn, but
all this reiteration bewilders me, does it not you, Ida?
Yet, in my simplicity, I can but think it unphilosophi-
cal entirely to disregard the will as the spring of our
actions.
Ev. If I must EXPLAIN, fair lady, I cannot avoid
prolixity. But to your question I will answer, no; for
somnambulism may be excited by the memory of an in-
tention. In the experiment made by the committee of
the physical society of Lausanne, on the Sieur Dcvaud,
of Vevay, it was proved that on the evening before the
fit of somnambulism, his head was heavy, and he had a
sense of oppression on his eye-lids. If, at this time, the
mind was impressed by some legend, or story, or inci-
dent, the actions of the sleep-walk were perfectly coin-
cident with such a subject. If a romantic talc of bauditti
were related, his alarm would be apparent in his sub-
326 ANALYSIS OF SLEEP-WAJ..KING.
sequent sleep. In this somnambulist was beautifully
illustrated the effect of permanent impression on the
brain, rendering, for a time, the sense of vision useless;
for having once perused his paper, it was so imprinted
on his mind, that the exact spot for each letter 'vas
exactly fixed on by the finger. And we have heard of
one more interesting case, in which the somnambule~
remembering that he had made errors in his writing,
traced, on a blank paper substituted for that written on,
the corrections, in the very places corresponding to the
erroneou3 writing. And that here was memory was
proved in this, that during the time his eyes were shut,
the pen was dropped on the very spot where the ink-
stand stood; but this being removed, n~ ink was ob-
tained, and the writing was blank.
Now we believe that there are certain vessels which
contribute to nervous energy, perhaps by secreting a
nervous fluid in the brain, or by concentrating electricity,
which Dr. Faraday believes may constitute the animal
portion of the nervous system. This influence may be
profusely accumulated in a waking state; the resolution
to act has been formed; or, there may be a rapid pro-
duction in sleep of this energy. Then, when sleep
occurs, this impression becomes uncontrolled. The third
form of insanity of Spurzheim, irresistibility, exists, and
the night-walk take~ place. And indeed it may form
an interesting analogy to that satiety of the voluptuary,
" Childe Harold,"
" 'Vho e'en for change of scene wou'd seek the shades below,"
and to one unhallowed story related in " Salmonia."
From this excess there is the stimulus ofpain to move ;
one of the most powerful motives of human action.
Cardan, if we may believe in his" Opera et Vita," was
at least a monomaniac ; and he "was wont instinctively,
as it were, to relieve this tendency of his mind by the
A!'ll'ALYSIS OF SLEEP-WALKI:-.G. J27
excitement of bodily pain." I may assure you that I
have, during my professional studies, often witnessed
(and indeed have sometimes suggested) a remedy on this
knowledge: you may be aware, that a severe and pain-
ful disorder will mitigate, if not entirely dissipate, that
apathetic misery which springs from a vacant or unoc-
cupied mind.
In contrasting childhood and age, we witness these
curiosities in the restless activity of youth and early
manhood, for at these periods we are very constant
somnambulists; not so in the passive state of old age,
in which sleep-walking is very rare. Something of this
we see also in the grow-ing paiM and fidgets of girls and
those whose duties are sedentary. Exercise is the relief
for all this.
Now when the sleep-walk has exhausted this excess
of irritability or electricity (if it be so), the dreamer re-
turns to bed and sleep. A hint is here thrown out to
us, that if powerful exertion be employed previous to
sleep, the night-walk might not ensue. Lethargy often
terminates in somnambulism.
If I may for another moment still prose over the in-
tricate, but deeply interesting question of the pathology
of somnambulism, I will- observe, that we often find it
one symptom of madness or idiocy, and we know that
somnambulism not seldom terminates in epilepsy.
In the brains of epileptic idiots, who are very deter-
mined somnambulists, we discover changes the most
various; effusion, congestion, ossification of membranes,
ramollissement, indurcissement, bony s-piculce, or points
pressing the brain, tubercles, cysts. In some, the skull
assumes the density of ivory. Yet in those persons
who have been known to be sleep-walkers, the inspec-
tion is seldom satisfactory. Plethora of the heacl has
often, however, preceded the sleep-walk. Signor Pozzi,
physician to Benedict XIV., if he submitted not to de-
328 A~ ALYSIS OF SLEEP-WALKING.
plet.ion each second month, became a somnambulist;
and we have known that in chorea, pr~'ious to the
dance, and in some cases of somnambulism also, pain
has been felt from the ocCiput along the course of the
spinal marrow. This is from immediate excitement;
but dyspepsia and other abdominal derangements may so
influence the ganglia and nerves of organic life, mid
through them the brain and cord, as to excite sleep-
walking by remote sympathy. ·
That injuries of the nervous matter about the nape of
the neck are of the highest importance in our studies of
these eccentric actions, is certain. The experiments of
Flourens show that the progressive or forward motion
of animals, is influenced by varied states of the cere-
bellum. When Majendie cut through the corpora striata,
the animal darted forward; when the pons Varolii was
cut, the animal rolled over sixty times in a minute.
When a soldier is struck by a ball about the cervical
vertebrce, he often springs from the ground and drops
dead.
It is our duty, then, not to slight the condition of
the somnambulist. If simple irritation be its exciting
cause, much benefit may be derived from counter-action
on the surface, and other remedial means. Even if
there be diseased structure, some palliation may be af-
forded. As preventives of the fit, we may inculcate an
abstinence from late meals, exercise in the evening pre-
vious to retirement to rest, a high pillow, &c.
If the propensity continue in spite of our efforts, it
will be right to have the windows fastened or locked,
and the door of the chamber bolted without; or to con-
fine the ankle or wrist to the bed-post by a long fillet,
which may by its detention awake the sleeper on starting
from the bed.
IMITA1,IVE MON0~:1ANIA.
" .1\lcn, wives, and children, stare, cry out, and run,
As it were doomsday." J \i L l L.S C .£4Ail.
1,HERE arc other very curious analogies of somnam-
bulism, which are marked by a power of action that
appears preternatural. And here again we witness the
irresistibility of motion, which seems to subvert the
laws of gravitation and the principles of mechanics.
The involuntary twitchings and contortions of St. Vi-
tus's dance present the slighter fonn of these eccentric
actions, which, in the intense degree, become like the
fury of a raving maniac.
In young girls there often is a proneness to be excited
by slight causes,-to be startled by mere trifles.
Savarry tells us of a man who, at two o'clock each
day, was irresistibly impelled to rap at doors and make
very odd noises, and felt intense pleasure in doing this.
If this had occurred in the night, it would have been
termed somnambulism.
Gall also relates of a young man at Berlin, who, after
rolling about in his bed for some time, and jumping out
and in repeatedly in his sleep, at last started up awake,
astonished at the crowd around his bed. And Dr.
330 IMITATIVE MONOMANIA.
Darwin writes of a boy, nine years old, who went through
a course of gymnastics, with an occasional song between
the acts. At length he seemed bursting, and soon sank
down in a stupor.
AsTR. I have read, (I think in Mezeray,) of an epi-
demic mania of this sort, in which the creatures tore off
their clothes, and ran naked through the streets arid
churches, until they fell breathless on the ground.
Some of them swelled even .to bursting, unless they
were bound down by cords. The disease was referred
to the agency ofdemons, and treated by exorcisms; they
even tore their flesh to free themselves from their pos-
sessing devils. I have seen also a confident story of
some nuns, who jumped so high during an hysteric
ecstacy, that they were at length seen to fly ; in imita-
tion, perhaps, of the Corybantes, the priests of Cybele,
who, in the celebration of their mysteries, leap~d and
raved, like madmen in the midst of their shrieks and
howlings.
Ev. All these eccentricities amount to complete mo-
nomania for the time they last, and they are marked
often by a very violent imitative propensity; like the
delirium which came upon the Abderites, on witnessing
the performance of the "Andromeda" of Euripides, by
Archelaiis. Of such nature was the ''dancing mania!'
of the middle ages ; the tarantula of Apulia, in which
melancholy was succeeded by madness ; the feats of the
Jumpers of Cornwall, and the Convulsionnaires of the
Parisian miracles.
Yet with all this apparent violence, there might be a
power of control by management. On some sudden
and extreme mental influence, there was in the l\faison
de la Charite, at Haerlem. an infectious convulsion of
this nature, so that the troop of little scholars, girls
and boys, were a mere legion of dancing maniacs ; and
nothing appeared to relieve them, until a ruse of the
I~fiTATIVE ~tOXO~lA~JA. 331
physician Boerhave put to flight the illusion. 'Vith a
solemn voice he pronounced, in the hearing of the little
creatures, his decision that each of them should be
burned to the bone of the arm with a red hot iron.
From that moment the mania subsided.
Dr. Hecker, in his account of the Dance of the middle
ages, notices two forms of this national monomania:-
" Tarantulism," and the "Danse de Saint Guy."
The first was marked by all sorts of illusions, demon-
omania, obscene dancing, groaning, and falling down
senseless.
The persons who believed themselves bitten by the
tarantula became sad and stupid. The flute or guitar
alone could give them succour. At the sound of its
music they awoke, as if by enchantment ; their eyes
opened, their movements, which at first slowly followed
the music, gradually beca!Ile animated, until they merged
into an impassioned dance. To interrupt the music
was disastrous :-the patients relapsed into their stu-
pidity, until they became exhausted by fatigue. During
the attacks, several singular idiosyncracies were mani-
fested, contrary to what occurred in Germany. Scarlet
was a favourite colour, though some preferred green or
yellow. A no less remarkable phenomenon was their
ardent longing for the sea; they implored to be carried
to its shores, or to be surrounded by marine pictures ;
some even threw themselves into the waves. But the
dominant passion was for music, though they varied in
their particular tastes. Some sought the braying sound
of the trumpet, others the softer harmony of stringed
instruments.
There was once a woman of Piedmont who was
charmed by the " capriccio," played by the leader of
an orchestra, into an ecstatic dance. In her, the sensa-
tions, as she expressed them, were so "strangely min-
gled," as powerfully to illustrate the fine line of distine-
332 DIITATIVE liONOliANIA.
tion between pleasure and pain. She gradually be-
came weaker, and the memory of the music was so
intense, that, while she was irresistibly impelled to this
maniacal dance, her expressions were those of acute
pain, and her cries were constantly of those. " horrid
sounds." In six months, this unhappy creature died
exhausted.
The Tigretier, of Abyssinia, is believed in Africa to be
the effect of demoniac influence. Indeed there is in
this strange state a complete metamorphosis of features,
and voice, and manner. In the hearts, even of the
women, the affections of nature and of attachment seem
to be annihilated, and they seem overwhelmed by some
oppressive weight, which is dissipated only by almost
preternatural exertion, excited by the charm of music ;
in which wild dance the female is dressed in ornaments
of silver, like the chiefs of battle. This maniac move-
ment is often, I believe, kept up from early morning
until sunset, ere the accumulation of energy is ex-
hausted; and even then the woman will start off sud-
denly and outrun the fleetest hunter, until she drops as
if dead. But it seems the climax of the cure is not
complete; until she drops all her ornaments, and a
matchlock is fired over her, when she owns her name
and family, both having been previously denied. She
is taken to the church and sprinkled with holy water,
and then the spell is broken.
There is another strange monomania, an incitement
to suicide, evinced in that loathsome disease of the
Lombard and Venetian plains, Pellagra. The prevail-
ing fashion is drowning; so that Strambi has termed
this monomania, water-madness.
Others are driven on by, still more horrible fancies.
Thus Grenier wrapped himself in a wolf-skin, and mur-
dered young maids that he might devour them. And,
among ourselves, the desire to change the infant into a
DfiTATIVE MO~O~IANIA. 333
cherub, has led the wild fanatic to the murder of the
innocents!
AsTn. This, I suppose, is Lycanthropy, or wolf-mad-
ness, on which old Burton so fuimily expatiates; and
to which the author of the old play of " Lingua" also
points, alluding to the
" Thousand vain imaginations,
Making some think their heads as big a,q horses,
Some that they're dead, some that they're turned to wolves."
In the woods of Limousin, in France, the belief in
the power of changing from men to wolves is still pre-
valent. The Loup-garou:c; or 1Vehr-wolf, was thought
to have been in league with Satan.
In my wanderings through Poictou, these monsters
seemed to me to confine their unholy powers to mid-
night prowling, and the .wolf-howl. Yet 1\farie, in the
"Lai duBisclavaret," endows them with the cannibalism
of the goul and the vampire :
" So Garwal roams in savage pride,
And hunts for blood, and feeds on men ;
Spreads dire destruction, far and wide,
And makes the forests broad his den."
Ev. The extraordinary effects of the instinct of imi-
tation in spreading these epidemics, is but an example
on the grand scale of what we see daily instances of in
ya'\\'Iling, hiccoughing, coughing, and other similar acts,
and in the propagation of hysteria and epilepsy. Some
persons, again, possess an irresistible tendency to imi-
tate others in mere trifling things. Tissot relates a
case of a female, who never could avoid doing every
thing she saw any one else do. She was obliged to walk
blindfolded in the streets; and, if ,you tied her hands,
she experienced intolerable anguish until they ,\·ere
loosened. There was another girl, that was seen by
334 Il\IITATIVE MO:\fO~IAXIA.
Dr. Horn, at Salzburg, who sat cross-legged, like a hog.
She had been brought up in a sty.
Even during the Commomvealth, the religious fanati-
cism of the Quakers carried the proselytes to such a
pitch, that the preachers were thrown into excessive
convulsions, and seemed possessed of demons. The
churches were broken into, and the ministers insulted
and attacked in the pulpits. Chains, and locks, and
the pillory, which were inflicted on these mad people,
failed, as it might be expected, in restoring their senses,
although they bore them with the most astonishing for-
titude. In their worshipping, the same eccentricities
were seen : after a deep and long silence, a number of
the devotees rose at once, and declaimed. The pre-
sumptuous imitation of the Saviour was a favourite
illusion ; and the forty-days' fast sometimes terminated
in death. Naylor, convinced of his divine Jdentity,
rode in procession on a mule, while his deluded prose-
lytes spread their garments, a:qd sung Hosannas to him.
Nay, the purity of the female mind was so grossly per-
verted, that a Quakeress walked naked into a church,
before Cromwell, as a sign·to the people!
There was a letter in an "Aberdeen Herald," dated
Invergordon, Sept. 9, 1840, from which I quote this
story:
" I had the curiosity to go to the church of Roskeen,
last night, to observe the workings of a revival. I was
prepared for something extraordinary, but certainly not
for what I saw. The sobs, groans, loud weeping, faint-
ing, shrieking, mingled in the most wild and unearthly
discordance with the harsh cracked voice of the clergy-
man, who could only at intervals be heard above the
general weeping and wailing. I was struck by the
cries being all from young voices ; and on examining a
little more closely, I found that the performers were
almost wholly children-girls, varying (rom five to four-
6
DIITATIVE :\IOXOMANIA. 335
teen years of age; a few young women, perhaps a dozen,
but not a single man or lad. I stood for nearly half an
horir by three girls, the eldest about twelve years of
age, who were in the most utter distress, each vying
with the other in despairing cries. Their mother came
to them, but made no exertion to check their bursts of
-1 don't know what to call it. In the churchyard
there were lots of children in various stages of L'linting.
One poor girl seemed quite dead, and I insisted on one
of the old crones, who was piously looking on, to go
for some water, or to attempt something to give her re-
lief, but was told, ' It was no' a case for water; it was
the Lord, and he would do as he liked with her. She
was seeing something we didna see, and hearing some-
thing we didna hear.' She was lying on the ground,
supported by her father. Indeed the poor ignorant
parents have been worked upon until they believe they
are highly honoured by the Lord, by having such signs
of the Spirit manifested in their families. The service,
if it may be called so, was in Gaelic."
In the reign of the second George, Count Zinzendorf
came from Germany and established the principles of
the Hernhutters, or Moravians. These were debased
by ceremonies, which they misnamed worship, of the
most licentious character.
Like Mahomet, Zinzendorf proclaimed himself a pro-
phet and a king, and in his presumption of an imme-
diate appeal to, and answer from, the Saviour, in all
matters of doubt, made a host of proselytes.
InA. In our own day, another delirious profanation of
the holy name of the Saviour has been exhibited, in the
imitative monomania of Sir Wzlliam Courtenay (as he
was called), in Kent. In May, 1838, this wild enthu-
siast (whose beauty of feature and expression closely
resembled the paintings of Christ by Guido and Carlo
Dolce, and who, to heighten this resemblance, wore his
336 DIIT.ATIVE llO~Oll..c\NIA.
hair and beard in a peculiar form, and clothed himself
in a robe) gained by his art numerous disciples in Kent,
who implicitly believed his divine nature and mission.
His career was, however, soon closed in a very awful
and bloody tragedy-the death ofhimself, of many of his
followers, and of the military who were called out to
secure him. His disciples, to the last, not only believed
in his divine nature, but even after his interment
were watching in implicit belief of his approaching resur-
rection! ·
The mania of the " unknown .tongues" has almost
equalled this delusion. If we presume to analyse, on
the principles of philosophy or reason, those religious
eccentricities, which seem, even in the mind of the
fanatic, to spring from sincerity or conviction, they
must yet, I suppose, be termed maniacal, and this
without the slightest profanation of the Divine will.
Evil, doubtless, is permitted for a wise purpose, and
while we deplore its immediatf} effects, we must not
hope to reveal its origin or its end.
At Brighton, some time ago, while at one of the
Millennium chapels, the wife of Caird, who was then
preaching,. uttered a dismal howling of this unknown
language, which paralysed some, and threw into con-
vulsions many others of the congregation~ A young
French lady among them instantly was struck with
maniacal despondency, and, after some infliction of
self-torture, became delirious and died in a hospital.
'ye learn from Plutarch, that in ~lilesium there was
once a prevalent fashion among the young girls to
hang themselves; while the same mania once spread
among the demoiselles of Lyons, to drown themselves
in the Rhone. The Convulsionists of Paris, in 1724,
not only inflicted self-torture, but in their wild delight
solicited the bystanders to stone them.
The commission of a great or extraor~inary crime to
l~llTATIVE MOXOl\lA:'\lA.
this day produces, not unfrcqucntly, a kind of mania of
imitation in the district in which it happened. I have
knmvn incidents, falsely called religious, to occasion
similar events; and what is remarkable, the scene or
place of the first event seemed to favour its repetition,
by other persons approaching it. Thus a supposed
miracle having been performed before the gate of the
convent of St. Genevieve, such a number of similar oc-
r.urrences happened on the same spot in a few days,
that the police was compelled to post a peremptory
notice on the gate, prohibiting any individual from
working miracles on the place in question. When the
locality was thus shut up, the thaumaturgia ceased. It
is not long since we witnessed in Paris two events of a
similar character. About four years ago, at the Hotel
des Invalides, a veteran hung himself on the threshold
of one of the doors of a r.orridor. No suicide had oc-
curred in the establishment for two years previously,
but in the succeeding fortnight five invalids hung
themselves on the same cross-bar, and the governor was
obliged to shut up the passage. During the last days
of the empire, again, an individual ascended the column
in the Place Vendome, and threw himself down and was
dashed to pieces. The event excited a great sensation;
and in the course of the ensuing week, four persons imi-
tated the example, and the police were obliged to pro-
scribe the entrance to the column. The same mania
was almost induced by the suicide of a foolish girl, who
leaped from the balcony of our own city column on
Fish-street Hill. Indeed Monseigneur l\1arc, of Paris,
alludes to a society enrolled for the mere purpose of
suicide; and there was an annual ballot to decide
which of these miserable creatures should be immolated
as the suicide of the year! !
Dr. Burrows, I remember also, relates cases analo-
gous to these. They occurred in the ranks of" some
z
338 DIITATIVE :\10:\'0:\IA:\'IA.
army on the continent, in which there was an epidemic
propensity to suicide, until the general began to hang
the soldiers on trees as scarecrows. The mania, as you
may believe, very soon subsided.
Ev. Your curiosities eclipse mine, Ida. But the
natural leaning to the marvellous, will, without mania or
fanaticism, by the mere sympathy of intercommlmic·at-
ing minds, spread wide these illusions, even in the most
simple instances. Some time since, a very large assem-
blage were watching with intense interest the stone lion
of the Percies, at Northumberland House. They were
unanimous in the conviction that he was swinging his
tail to and fro; a false impression, of course, which
had gradually accumulated from this solitary exclama-
tion of a passenger : " By heaven, he wags his tail !" Of
this sort of illusion I was myself a witness. Beneath
the western portico of St. Paul's, a crowd of g~ers were
bending their eyes on the image of the saint, who was
nodding at them with a very gracious affability. Curio-
sity had risen to the pitch of wonder at a miracle, when
suddenly a sparrow-hawk flew from the ringlets of the
saint, and the illusion vanished.
These·eccentricities, you will perceive, occurred spon-
taneously; and it is a most interesting study to note the
analogies between these diseased actions, and those re-
sulting from the influence of certain gases and vegetable
juices.
I have known the seeds of stramonium, when swal-
lowed by children, produce a temporary delirium, and a
state of chorea, singing, dancing, laughing, and other
mad frolics, which could not be controlled. And in the
" History of Virginia," by Beverly, it is recorded, that
during the rebellion of Bacon, at James Town, some
soldiers, after eating the young leaves of stramoniurn for
spinach, enacted "a very pleasant comedy, for they
turned natural fools upon it for seyeral days. One
1!\IITATIVJ.: :\10~0:\L\~L\.
would blow up a feather into the air, another would dart
straws at it with much fury, another, stark naked, was
secri sitting up in a corner, like a monkey, grinning and
making mouths." In this frantic condition they were
confined for safety. In eleven days they recovered, but
had no memory of the delirium. Such also is the effect
of large quantities of black henbane. Dr. Patouillet, of
Toucy, in France, in 1737 witnessed a mania of this sort
in nine persons, who had eaten of that root. It was
marked by the strangest actions and expressions. In
these also there was no recollection of the illusion.
But the closest analogy, in point of concentrated
energy, to eccentric somnambulism, is the effect of the
inhalation of the "gaseous oxide of azote," or " prot-
oxide of nitrogen," the laughing-gas. So intense is its
impression on the nerves and blood of the brain, that it
effects a perfect metempsychosis. This gas contains a
greater relative proportion of oxygen than common ait·,
and it is inhaled through a tube from a bladder or silk
bag.. After a little giddiness and headache, the breather
soon .begins to feel a very delicious thrilling; the eyes
are dazzled by even common objects, so much are the
senses excited. Pride and pugnacity are quickly de-
veloped : ·we think ourselves grand seignors, and ele-
vated far beyond the common class of mortals. 'Ve
expect from all a salaam, and, with all the proud dignity
of papacy, wonder that the people do not fall down and
kiss our toe. 'Ve turn a deaf ear to all which is ad-
dressed to us ; in short, we are dissociated from all
around us. Sir Humphrey Davy, as the effect was
wearing off, seemed to have been charmed into the com-
bined philosophy of Berkley and Hume. He writes,
''with the most intense belief and prophetic manner, I
exclaimed: 'Nothing exists but thoughts ; the uni-
verse is composed of impressions, ideas, pleasures, and
pains.'"
z2
340 IMITATIVE 1\IONO:\IANIA.
This brilliancy is probably the effect of scarlet or
highly oxygenized blood, acting on the brain and nerves
of the senses.
The duration of this gaseous influence is usually from
five minutes to a quarter of an hour. It is not, how-
ever, always so transient.
From the record of Professor Silliman, it seems to
have converted an " II Penseroso" into a "L'Allegro."
A man of melancholy became a man of mirth : and,
although before his inhalation he had no sweet tooth in
his head, he began to eat little except sugar and sweet
cakes, and to swallow molasses .with his meat and
potatoes.
Although sparring is the grand amusement of the
gas-breather, yet we can often decide on the shades of
character, however studiously they may have been con-
cealed from us in sane moments.
A gentleman among my fellow-students threw him-
self forcibly on his back, by his attempts to spout
Shakspere with dignity and effect.
Another threw himself prostrate in the snow, and
rolling himself over and back across the quadrangle at
Guy's, turned himself into an immense cylindrical
snowball.
Another snapped his fingers in defiance, and walked
with a most pompous strut, and without his hat, to the
middle of London Bridge, ere he was brought to his
senses.
Indeed these experiments seem so replete with the
ludicrous, that I wonder Cruikshank and Hood have
not often caught a fact, as a theme for their brilliant
fancy.
REVERIE.
" That fools should be so deep-contemplative.''
" In his brain
He hath strangt places cramm'd
With observation, the which he vents
In mangled forms." As You LIKL IT<
AsTR. I was dreaming last night, Evelyn, of your
eccentric puppets ; and I cannot but wonder at the
contrasted influences of nitrous oxide on the brain and
marrow, as you say. In one, we see the wondrous
phenomena of somnambulism; in the other, a state of
apathy, like the almost senseless reverie of the idiot.
Ev. You are shrewd, Astrophel, and have hit on
the_se objective analogies with the acuteness of a patho-
logist. Contrasts they truly are ; and yet there is a
natural transition from one to the other.
Somnambulism is the most eccentric condition of
sleep ; and Reverie is that state which constitutes the
nearest approximation to slumber. But the French
verb, rever, is a comprehensive word, signifying all the
eccentricities of mind, from idiocy to divine philosophy;
so that its derivative, "Reverie," may be construed into
Dream, Delirium, Raving, Thought, Fancy, ~feditation,
Abstraction.
You may wonder at this combination, but, however
342 ABSTR.ACTIO~ OF IDIOCY.
you may smile, the existence of every one is marked by
a certain degree of moral or instinctive mania, modified
by the peculiarity of habit, taste, or sentiment; and, I
may add, of intellectual monomania (" monomanie rai-
sonnante"), in reference to some particular subject.
There may indeed be an incubation of madness; and, if
circumstances occur to sit and hatch, the germs will be
developed. When these two, moral and intellectual
error (which :rpay separately pass current in the world
for eccentricity), unite, then the man is mad, and be-
comes an irresponsible agent.
The term " Reverie," then, will imply the varied con-
ditions of that faculty, which phrenology terms concen-
trativeness; the extremes of which mark the idiot and
the sage.
Idiocy is the most abject and imperfect condition of
the waking mind, resembling closely the first _disposi-
tion to slumber, the sensation of doziness. The crea-
ture will commit the most absurd acts, and utter the
most ridiculous or profane expressions, without the re-
deeming apology of being engaged in abstract thought
or abstruse calculation.
It is consolatory, however, to know that this weak-
ness is usually connate, or manifested at the very dawn
of intellect; so that we have not the painful study of
contrasting, in one being, the light of mind with its
shadowy darkness.
The idiot, indeed, often appears so little ID:Ore than a
laughing or a dancing vegetable, that pity yields to
curiosity and mirth ; and, instead of mourning, we work
into the plot and incidents of a novel or a stage farce,
either that strange, mixture of weakness and cunning
which is delineated in Davie G:ellatly, or the absolute
imbecility of Audrey, Slender, and Sir An~ew Ague-
cheek.
But this melancholy being is not ~ways a solitary
ABSTRACTIO~ OF IDIOCY. 343
curiosity. In many districts, especially in the stream-
fed valleys of Europe and Asia, nature fails, by whole-
sale, in the development of that " paragon of animals,"
man.
Such are the Capots, or CretiM, of Chinese Tartary,
as we learn from Sir George Staunton ; those of the
Rhone and Tyrolese valleys; the Coliberts of Rochelle ;
the Cagneux of Brittany; the Gajfos of Navarre ; the
Gavachos of Spain ; and the Gezitani of the Pyrenees.
The condition of the lowest class of these wretched
beings is indeed that of idiocy ; their intellectual power
being little more than the mental blank which would
mark the acephalous, or bniinless monsters, could such
abortions attain the age of maturity. It is mere animal
life, with the very faintest stamp of intelligence.
The Cretin is from four to five feet high, cadaverous,
flabby, the head immensely out of proportion, the skin
studded with livid eruptions, the eyes blear and squint-
ing, the lips slavering, the limbs weak and crooked;
and (like the Stulbings o(Swift) the senses are imperfect,
the hearing and speech often absolutely lost,-the ex-
pression being that of a fool: or a satyr. And dissection
demonstrates the frequent causes of all this; for, in the
skull of these beings, we often find a bluish jelly, instead
of healthy brain. This diseased pulp is thus the source
of both animal and intellectual apathy. The idiot will
often seem insensible to pain, while his flesh is burning;
and objects or subjects do not cause sufficient impres-
sion on this pulpy brain to produce their image, so that
the being may almost live without a sense.
CAST. Tills is a dreary, but, I suppose, a faithful
picture, and shows us one of those impressiYc con-
trasts which nature is fraught with. The Cretin dwarf
amidst the gigantic sublimity of the Alps ; the lava
stream rolling over the chcsnut groves of Valombrosa ;
the malaria that steams up from the Pontine even to
344 WAXDERIXG.
Albano; the murky sulphur cloud that floats over
Avernus, and the Solfaterra; and the poison-snake
creeping among the honied flowers and purple festoons
which gild the prairies and interlace the forests of
Columbia, show us how intimately are blended the
lights and shadows of creation. Yet Evelyn will let me
ask him if there are not many beautiful stories, which
we may have deemed the creation of poesy, proving
that idiotism is not always definite and permanent. I
ought to blush while I recite them. The romance of
Cymon and Iphigenia is not a. mere fable. I have
heard a story of a youth who was an idiot to his ] 7th
year. At thi.s time he saw a beautiful girl, and in-
stantly felt. deep and devoted love for her ; and became,
from this almost divine influence, as acute in intellect
as his playmates.
AsTR. And what writeth the quaint Anato!Jlist of
~felancholy ?-" 'Ve read in the lives of the Fathers a
story of a child that was brought up in the ·wilderness
from his infancy by an old hermite. Now come to man's
estate, he saw by chance two comely women ·wandering
in the woods. He asked the old man what creatures
they were. He told him fayries. After a while talking
obiter, the hermite demanded of him which was the
pleasantest sight that he ever saw in his life ? · He rea-
dily replied, the two fayries he espied in the wilderness.
So that without doubt there is some secret loadstone in
a beautiful woman, a magnetique power."
InA. 'Ve do not hold your gallantry lightly, Astro-
phel ; there is some hope of your conversion.
Ev. That mind is termed weak, where there is a
want of the power of fixing the attention to one object,
a wandering of the imaginative faculty. A train of ideas
arises, between the links of which there is some remote
relation ; but its beginning and end may appear so di..~­
.~onant, that the absent person will fail to recognize the
WAXDJ.~H.ING. 345
connexion, until, by an effort to retrace the steps of
thought, the mystery is developed.
InA. The subjects of this form of reverie arc, I pre-
sume, the wool-gatherers of society, being'' every thing
by turns, and nothing long;" and often, like the dog in
the fable, losing the substance while they grasp at the
shadow ; others employ their time by sitting
" l\lusing all alone,
Building castles in the air,"
forming plans and projecting schemes which shall fill
men's minds with wonder; and their own pockets with
gold.
But these castle-builders are, alas ! but the dupes of
their own mad fancy. 1,he card-house is nearly finished,
and one imprudent touch of the child topples it down
headlong. One of the most salutary lessons on this
foible is the fable of the Persian visionary, the glassman
Alnaschar, who, by rehearsing one kick of the foot,
that was to indicate his despotic will, broke into ten
thousand pieces the basket of merchandize, which, by its
accumulating profits, was to raise him to the highest
dignities. Such are the results of self-glamouric or
castle-building.
Ev. It is a moral lesson of great worth, dear Ida.
But these wanderings are often assimilating the true
delirium of fever, of which the dreams of Piranesi arc
examples. In his sketches of these illusions he figures
himself as ascending by steps so high that he at length
vanishes into the clouds.
Now there are many curious instances of forgetful-
ness, as there may be a confusion of ideas from this
deficiency of concentration, memory being, as it 'ycrc,
deranged. From study, or intense thought, a jumble
of strange ideas will sometimes force themselves in-
346 ILLUSIVE ABSTRACTION.
voluntarily on the mind, displacing or confusing the
subject of meditation.
Thus a German, of the name of Spalding, of high at-
tainments, informs us, that after great mental labour, he
was intending to write this receipt: "fifty dollars, being
one half-year's rate," but quite unconsciously concluded
it thus : " fifty dollars through the salvation of Bra~"
And the author of the " Spiritual Treasury," ~fason,
during his devotion to its composition, had, as he be-
lieved, taken the address of a visitor on whom he was
to wait; but on referring to his note, he read, not the
address, but-" Acts ii. verse 8." .
Children have naturally a want of power of con-
centration. I have told you that if a new or more
attractive object strikes their sight, they will drop that
which they were holding; and Foote would often, while
taking a pinch, let his snuff-box fall from his h;md, if
for a moment his attention was diverted.
AsTR. The reverse of wanc}.ering, then, you term
concentrativeness. You would not stigmatize the pas-
sive or involuntary form of abstraction, as the reverie of
a monomaniac.
Ev. No. As attention is concentration of a sense, ab-
straction is the concentration or attention of the mind;
therefore the power of fixing the senses and forgetting
the mind, is attention, that of fixing the mind and forget-
ting the senses, is abstraction-philosophy, if you will.
The active form, the power of fixing the attention on
one subject, or of separating ideas and bringing them
into association on one point, is the great characteristic
of the philosopher and the mathematician. That inat-
tention to minutia! during this abstraction, has, I grant,
caused the shafts of satire to be profusely flung at many
a "learned pundit;" for the jokes of Rabelais are
eclipsed by the eccentricities of our sages : Dominie
Sampson is no caricature.
ILLUSIVE ABSTUACTIO~. 347
As I trace these forms of reverie from monomania to
its curious contrast, the folie raisonnante of men of one
idea, (in which there is an aberration of intellect, or
want of consciousness on all subjeCts but one,) and so on
to philosophical abstraction, we shall learn, not without
some humility, how close an alliance docs really exist
between great wits and madness.
rrhe records of history and fiction teem with the illu-
sions of the monomaniacs from intense impression.
The madness of Ophelia and of Lear, are true and
faithful illustrations of the effects of brooding over sor-
row. In the monarch, indeed, that one momentary
glimpse ofreason when the word "king" like an electric
shock falls on his ear, and, for an instant, lights up his
intellect, which as suddenly darkness again overshadows,
beautifully shows forth by contrast this madness of one
idea.
Dr. Gooch relates the case of a lady, who in conse-
quence of an alarm of fire, believed that she was the
Virgin ~1ary, and that her head was constantly en-
circled by a brilliant halo or glory.
A gentleman, on narrowly escaping from the earth-
quake at Lisbon, fell into a state of delirium when-
ever the word " earthquake" was pronounced in his
hearing.
In "Pechlin" we read of a lady, who gazed with
painless interest on the comet of 1681 until she ob-
served it through a telescope of high power; the terror
was so intense, that she ·was frightened to death even in
a few days.
Dr. Morrison relates the case of an insane gentleman
who had consulted a gypsy, and was instantly in a
state of high excitement, whenever a subject associated
with her prophecies was alluded to.
~fy friend, Dr. U·wins, informed me of an intellectual
young gentleman, who from some morbid association
348 ILLUSIVE ABSTRACTIOX.
with the idea of an elephant, was struck by an horrific
spasm whenever the word was named, or even written
before him; and to such a pitch was this infatuation
carried, that elephant paper, if he were sensible it were
such, produced the same effect.
The Reverend John ~fason, of 'Vater Stratford,
evinced in every thing sound judgment, except that he
believed that he was Elias, and foretold the advent of
Christ, who was to commence the millennium at Strat-
ford.
Dr. Abercrombie writes of a young botanist who had
gained a prize: he thought he was in a boat sailing
to Greenwich on a botanical excursion, and conversed
rationally on all points but that of the prize, which
he asserted another student had gained.
Hear, too, another rhapsody of the "Opium-Eater."
After a close and intense study of the works of. Livy,
the words Consul Romanus seemed to haunt his mind.
"At a clapping of hands would be heard the heart-
rending sounds of ' Consul Romanus;' and immediately
came sweeping by in gorgeous paludaments, Paulus
~Iarius girt round by a company of centurions, with
the crimson tunic hoisted on a spear, and followed by
the alalagmos of the Roman legions."
There is a story (written in the seventeenth ce_
ntury)
of a youth, who in a playful frolic put a ring on the
marriage finger of a marble Venus; and a strange illu-
sion came upon him that she had thus become his wife,
and, in obedience to the injunctions of the ceremony,
came to his bed when the sable canopy of night was
spread around them. So intense was this illusion, and
so cold and loveless was his heart withal, that, as the
story goes, an exorcist was employed to dissolve the
spell which had so firmly bound him.
InA. I believe it was ~Irs. Barry, who (as we read in
the "Last Essays of Elia,") averred that when playing
ILLUSIVE ABSTRACTION.
the child of Isabella, she felt the burning tears of Mrs.
Porter fall on her neck, as l'hc was breathing o'er her
some pathetic sentence. Even the study of Lady ~lac­
beth, in midnight solitude, so intensely excited the
imagination of ~frs. Siddons, that Campbell says, as she
was disrobing herself in her chamber, she trembled with
affright, even at the rustling of her own silk attire.
Ev. I could add many stories to yours, Ida. 1,his
sensibility, if protracted or in excess, becomes the Pano-
pltobia of Esquirol. He attended once a lady whom
the slightest noise alarmed, and who was wont to scream
with affright at the simple moving of herself in bed.
From the journal of Esquirol I will quote other frag-
ments, in which we see that every object was associated
with one image.
"During our promenade he (a gallant general) inter-
rupted me several times, in the midst of a very con-
nected conversation, saying, "Do you hear how they
repeat the words 'coward, jealous?' &c. This illusion
wa~ produced by the noise of the leaves and the whist-
ling of the wind among the branches of the trees,
which appeared to .!tim well-articulated sounds; and,
although I had each time combated it with success,
the illusion returned whenever the wind agitated the
trees anew."
"A young married man was in a state of fury when-
ever he saw a woman leaning on a man's arm, being
convinced that it was !tis own wife. I took him to the
theatre at the commencement of his eonvaleseenee, but
as soon as a lady entered the saloon accompanied by a
gentleman, he became agitated, and called out eagerly
several times, 'That is she, that is she.' I could hardly
help laughing, and we were obliged to retire.
"Alady, twenty-three years of age, afflicted with ~ys­
terieal madness, used to remain constantly at the windows
of her apartment during the summer. \Vhen she saw a
350 ILLUSIVE ABSTRACTIO.:--;.
beautiful cloud in the sky, she screamed out' Garnerin,
Garnerin, come and take me !' and repeated the same
invitation until the cloud disappeared. She mistook
the clouds for balloons sent up by Garnerin."
CAsT. There is here as much romance, as when Ajax
mistook a drove of oxen for the armed Greeks, or Don
Quixote the windmills for a band of Spanish giants.
Ev. Again, Dr. Beddoes relates the case of a scholar,
who locked himself up to study the Revelation. The
confinement brought on dyspeptic pains and spasms,
and he was persuaded that "the .monster blasphemy,
with ten heads, was preying on his vitals."
The Reverend Simon Brown died with the conviction
that his rational soul was annihilated by a special fiat of
the Divine will; and a patient in the Friends' "Retreat,"
at York, thought he had no soul, heart, or lungs.
From "Tulpius" we learn, that the wife of Salomon
Galmus sank into a state of extreme melancholy; from
the deep conviction that she was a visitant from the
tomb, but sent back to the worid without her heart, for
God had detained that in heaven.
Such illusions are sometimes excited by wounds of
the brain. . A soldier of the field of Austerlitz was
struck with a delirious conviction that he was but an
ill-made model of his former self. "You ask how Pere
Lambert is," (he would say;) "he is dead, killed at
Austerlitz ; that you now see is a mere machine, made
in his likeness." He would then often lapse into a state
of catalepsy insensible to every stimulus.
Dr. l\1ead tells us of an Oxford student, who ordered
the passing bell to be rung for him, and went himself to
the belfry to instruct the ringers. He returned to his
bed only to die.
A Bourbon prince thought himself dead, and refused
to eat until his friends invited him to dine with Turenne
and other French heroes long since depa~ed.
ILLUSIVE ABSTRACTIO:\'.
There was a tradesman who thought he was a seven-
shilling piece, and advertised himself thus: "If my
wife· presents me for payment, don't change me." Ac-
cuse me not of transatlantic plagiarism.
Bishop "\;Varburton tells us of a man who thought
himself a goose pie; and Dr. Ferriday, of :Manchester,
had a patient who thought he had swallowed the devil.
So indeed thought Luther. As in Hudibras,
"Did not the devil appear to Martin
Luther in Germany for certain t"
In Paris there lived a man who thought he had with
others been guillotined, and when Napoleon was em-
peror, their heads were all restored, but in the scramble
he got the wrong one.
And there is the "Visitor of Phantaste" in the old
play of "Lingua," who· exclaims : "No marvel, for
when I beheld my fingers, I saw they were as trans-
parent as glass."
You perceive that the illusions of Pope's "Rape of
the Lock" are not all fictions : the maids who fancied
they were turned into bottles, were not more in error
than these philosophers with their maladie imaginaire.
CAsT. Is there not wisdom, Evelyn, in nursing some
of these innocent illusions ? I remember Kotzebue, in
his "Journey to Paris," relates the following anecdote
of a young girl, romantically in love. Her lover had
often accompanied her on the harp : he died, and his
harp had remained in her room. After the first excess
of her despair, she sunk into the deepest melancholy,
and much time elapsed ere she would sit down to her
instrument. At last she did so, gave some touches,
and, hark ! the harp, tuned alike, resounded in echo.
The good girl was at first seized with a secret shudder-
ing, but soon felt a kind of soft melancholy : she was
firmly persuaded that the spirit of her lover was softly
352 ILLUSIVE ABSTRACTIOX.
S'iVeeping the strings of the instrument. The harpsi-
chord, from this moment, constituted her only pleasure,
as it afforded her the certainty that her lover was still
hovering near her. One of those unfeeling men, who
want to know and clear up every thing, once entered
her apartment. The girl instantly begged him to be
quiet, for at that very moment the dear harp spoke
most distinctly. Being informed of tlte amiable illusion
which overcame her reason, he laughed, and, with a
great display of learning, proved to her by experimental
physics, that all this was very natural. From that in-
stant the maiden grew melancholy, drooped, and soon
after died.
Ev. Truth is not always to be spoken, nor too much
energy exerted, in our treatment; for many a mad act,
as it will be called, is resorted to, as a relief.
Tirouane de l\Iericourt was wont to saturate her bed-
clothes with cold water, then lie down on it. Although
an extreme remedy, it might 'YiEtld her relief from burn-
ing pains. In the darker ages, she would have been
chained and scourged.
But from l\Iarcus Donatus we read the following
case of still more melancholy interest ; another illustra-
tion of your question, dear Castaly :
"Vicentinus believed himself too large to pass one of
his doorways. To dispel this illusion, it 'iYas resolved
by his physician that he should be dragged through this
aperture by force. This erroneous dictate was obeyed;
but, as he was forced along, Vicentinus screamed out
in agony, that his limbs were fractured, and the flesh
torn from his bones. In this dreadful delusion, with
terrific imprecations against his murderers, he died."
ABSTRACTION OF INTELLECT.
" I love to cope him in these sullen fits,
For then he's full of matter."
As You LIKE IT.
AsTR. So that in these cases it is one faculty only which
is interrupted, and not the combined intellect. But
all.the faculties hut one may be deranged, may they
not?
Ev. Yes. "\Vhen the patient is insane on all points
but one, we term it, " Folie raisonnante."
The very idiot, indeed, is often fond of most exact
arrangement. The savage of Aveyron instantly put
things in order when they were deranged.
White, in his " History of Selborne," records the
propensities of an idiot, who, he says, was a very
Merops-apiaster, or Bee-bird. Honey-bees, humble-
bees, and wasps, were his prey : he would seize them,
disarm them of their weapons, and suck their bodies
for the sake of their honey-bags. Except in this
adroitness, he had no understanding.
Pinel states the case of a mechanical genius, :who
became insane, believing his head to he changed. Yet
he invented mechanism of the most intricate combina-
Aa
354 ABSTRACTION OF IXTELLECT.
tions. \Ve are informed, too, of a clergyman, who was
ever insane, but whe11: delivering his discourses from
the pulpit.
I believe some parts of a national establishment
were constructed from the plans of one of its inmates,
who was to all other intents and purposes a mad-
man.
Dr. Uwins once told me, that some of the lines in
his biographical work were wri"tten by a maniac in the
Hoxton Asylum, who was ever aware of the approach
of his mania. These lines were thought to be among
the best in the work.
Nay, idiots will sometimes reason, and work out a
syllogism. I think Dr. Conolly relates a story of two,
who quarrelled, because each asserted that he was the
Holy Ghost; at length, one decided that the other was
the Holy Ghost, and that he could 'IWt be, becaus~ there
were not two.
From this "folie raisonnante." there is an easy tran-
sition to that eccentricity which seems to be a set-off
against the strength of mind of the deep thinker. The
permanent derangement, however, we term insanity; the
transient, eccentricity.
~farullus informs us that Bernard rode all day long
by the Lemnian Lake, and at last inquired where he
was. Archimedes rushed .into the street naked from
the bath, in an ecstacy at having discovered the alloy
in the crown of Syracuse. Pinel tells us of a priest,
who, in an abstract mood, felt no pain, although part
of his body was burning.
"Viote," says Zimmerman, "during his fits of
mathematical abstraction, would often remain sleepless
and foodless for three days and nights."
And Plato thus records an instance of the abstraction
of Socrates :-"One morning ~e fell into one of these
raptures of contemplation, and continued standing in
"\ BSTRACTIO~ 01'' ·INTEI.I~EC'r. 355
the same posture till about noon. In the evening, some
Ionian soldiers went out, and, wrapping themselves up
warm, lay down by him in the open field, to observe if
he would continue in that posture all night; which he
did until the morning, and as soon as the sun rose he
saluted it, and retired." This is mental abstraction with
a vengeance !
AsTR. I will laugh with you at these oddities, Evelyn;
yet not a whit less ludicrous are some of the V~O(lries of
the learned Thebans of modern times. The abstractions
of Newton were proverbial. It may not be true, that
he once inserted the little finger of a lady, whose hand
he was holding, into his· pipe, instead of a tobacco-
stopper; or that he made a small hole in his study-
door for the exit of a kitten, by the side of a large one
for the cat : it is certain, however, that he was once
musing by his fire, with ··his knees close to the bars,
when, finding his legs in danger of being grilled, he
rang his bell, and, in a rage, desired his servant to take
away the grate.
Dr. Hamilton, author of the acute " Essay on the
National·Debt," visited his college class in the morning
with his own black silk stocking on one leg, and his wife's
white cotton on the other ; and would sometimes occupy
the whole class time by repeatedly removing the stu-
dents' hats from his table, which they as often placed
there. He would run against a cow, and beg madam's
pardon, hoping he had not hurt her; and he would bow
politely to his wife in the street, without recognition.
Yet with all this he would, at any time, directly
converse on a scientific subject beautifully and elo-
quently.
Bacon, the sculptor, in a rich full dress was finishing
Howard's statue in St. Paul's, and, being cold, .put
on a ragged green and red shag waistcoat. In this
trim he walked out to call on some ladies in Doctors'
Aa2
356 ABSTRACTIO:-o; OF IXTELLECT.
Commons. On his return he told his son that they
were sadly disposed to laugh about nothing. On being
convinced, however, of his condition, he remembered
the people he passed also giggled, and cried out, " He
does it for a wager."
Hogarth paid a visit, in his new carriage, to the
Lord l\Iayor, and, after his audience, walked home in
his state clothes, leaving his carriage at a private door
of the l\Iansion-House.
Dr. Harvest, of Ditton, a very learned man, would
unconsciously allow his horse to be loosened from his
grasp, and walk home witlt the bridle on !lis arm. He
would walk into his church on Sunday, with !lis fowling-
piece. He would write a letter, address it, and send it
to three different persons. He lost a lady, the daughter
of a bishop, as his wife, by going out to catch gudgeons,
forgetting that it was the morning of his marriag~ cere-
mony; and he once threw a glass ofwine at backgammon,
and swallowed the dice !
After this we can no longer call caricatures the ab-
stract philosopher who boiled his watch, and held the
egg in his hand as the time-keeper ; or the American,
who put his candle to bed, and blew himself out; or the
lady, who believed herself to be a post-letter, but waited
patiently until the letter-sorter had examined her, to
ascertain if she was single or double.
Ev. There is some hope of you now, dear Astrophel,
for you are returning to matters of fact.
From the deep interest of dramatic scenes may spring
the same apathy as that which you have illustrated. Dr.
Fordyce writes of one who forgot he was sitting on a
hard bench, when Garrick brought in his dead Cordelia
in his arms. And even the impression of fatigue and
pain will often, for a time, leave us, when we are gazing
on architectural or picturesque beauty.
InA. Are not those minds which are easily influenced
ABSTH.ACTlON OF l='fTELLECT. 357
by morbid sensibility, the minutire of existence, often
thus depressed into a condition somewhat resembling
the moroseness of these half-idiots?
Ev. Ay, even the mighty minds of heroes and of
monarchs. Queen Elizabeth was often wont to sit
alone, in tlte dark, in sorrow and in tears. \Ve know
not if the fate of Essex or of ~fary were the cause, but
the marble mind of Elizabeth was dissolved before she
died. In Sully's " ~Iemoires," also, we read that the
solitude of Charles IX., of France, was saddened by
remorse, for his memory was ever pealing in his ear the
shrieks and groans of the massacre of St. Bartholomew.
During this influence we may often find that the fea-
tures or actions are so deeply expressive as to prove
an involuntary, though correct, index of the thought.
According to the passions or subjects which occupy the
mind, will be the play of feature or t~~.. ,movement of
the body.
" We might almost suppose the body thought."
This "brown study" is the slightest form of that
state which the French term ennui, in which the mind
too often is left to prey upon itself, having, as it were,
no sympathy with the world. Its more severe symptoms
are those ofmisanthropy, melancholy, and hypochondriasis,
inducing but too often that extreme tedium vitfJ!, the
climax of which is suicide. Out of the first, which is
but the mere ripple of derangement, we may be laughed
or coaxed; nay, it may yield to the positive sujj'ering
of the body. The second is like the deep still water,
the awful calmness antecedent to a tempest. In the
words of Lord Erskine, " Reason is not driven from
her seat, but distraction sits down on it along with
her, holds her trembling on it, and frights her from
her propriety. And then comes often o'er the mind
358 ABSTRACTIO::\' OF I~TELLECT.
a very coward sentiment, echoing the demoniac resolu-
tion of Spenser's " Cave of Despair:"
" ''\'b.at if some little payne the passage have,
That makes frayle flesh to fear the better wave !
Is not short payne well borne, that brings long ease,
And !ayes the soule to sleep in quiet grave !"
InA. Despair will often rouse even the most sensitive
beings to the most patient fortitude. How is this ?
Ev. Not rouse, but depress--not fortitude, but apathy.
I could excite your deepest sympathy and wonder, Ida,
by the history of the young and beautiful Ann G--n,
who was hung for child-murder; in whom the convulsive
agony which followed her sentence at length ended in a
resignation which some would term heroism. During
the nights in which I myself watched her slumbers,
both from deep scientific interest, and the request of
her judges, her actions were automatic ; her existence
was one perfect trance ; and she met her fate as if life
a~d its consciousness had long been parted.
Even an intense blow will sometimes, as it were,
annihilate sensibility, creating an icy apathy to all sub-
sequent inflictions ; which was the effect on ~landrin,
during the "tortures of the wheel; for he smiled at the
third blow, to find that it hurt him so little. .
InA. Then we are to contrast the state of the un-
happy girl with the voluntary endurance of heroism
depending on the power of concentrating mind? The
almost superhuman endurance of pain is finely dis-
played among the North American Indian-s, who even
chant their own death-song calmly amidst worse than
the tortures of the Inquisition, or sustain :with a smile
those probationary trials for the dignities of a chief, or
the admission to the class of warriors, that are modelled
with all the refinement of cruelty. On the banks of the
Orinoco, especially, (if Robertson be right, or Gumilla,
ABSTRACTION OJ<' iNTELLECT. 359
his authority, to be belie,·ed,) the ordeal begins by a
rigi~ fast, reductive of the body's energy; then com-
mences a flaying of his body by lashes as dreadful as
the knout, by the hands of the assembled chiefs, and
then, if the slightest sensibility be evinced, he is dis-
graced for ever. His raw and reeking flesh is then ex-
posed to the stings and venom of insects and reptiles,
and again suspended over the scorching and suffocating
flames of herbs of the most disgusting odour; and, to
close this tale of torture, it is not seldom that the
victim sinks in mortal agonies beneath the dreadful
ordeal.
Ev. The two great spri~gs of voluntary endurance of
pain are 'religion and honour. Thus, among other heroic
acts of England's martyrs, Cranmer held the apostate
hand which signed his recantation in the midst of the
flames until it was wasted. And the unyielding for-
titude with which the victim bore the rack and other
excruciating tortures of the popish Inquisition is almost
beyond belief.
The fanaticism of the wild enthusiasts of the east it
were profanation to call religion ; but with the hope of
rejoining her husband in the realms of bliss, the Hindoo
widow clasps his corpse in her arms, and, without a sigh,
sets the torch to his funeral pile. And, to inherit the
paradise of Brahma, the Fakir or Yoghee keeps his fist
clenched for years, until the nails grow through his
hand ; or forces the hooks between his ribs, and whirls
himself aloft until he expires, or throws himself pros-
trate beneath the crushing wheels of Juggernaut.
It is written that Cardan rendered himself by great
efforts insensible to external irritants.
And analogous to this, was the almost superhuman
effort of that determined action of :Muley :Moloch
quoted in the " Spectator," from Vertot's " Revolutions
of Portugal:"-" In a condition of extreme prostration
6
360 ABSTRACTION OF INTELLECT.
he was borne in a litter with his army. On the sound-
ing of a retreat, although in a half-dying state, he leaped
from the litter, and led his quailing troops to a charge,
which ended in victory. .Ere this was accomplished his
life was fast ebbing, and, reclining on his litter, and en-
joining the secrecy of his staff, with his finger on his
lip, he died."
But my analysis will be incomplete, if I do not revert
to a point that I had almost forgotten. These abstract
moods have often been confounded with the visions of
slumber, being adduced as proofs of the perfection of
mind during sleep.
You reminded me, Astrophel, of the brilliant parody
composed by Mackenzie, of the versification of Voltaire
and La Fontaine, of the solution of the difficult prob-
lem by Condorcet, of the discussion of abstruse points
of policy by Cabanis. You might have added Condillac,
who asserts that when he was composing the "Cours
d'Etudes," he often left a chapt~r unfinished, but had it
all in his mind when he awoke. And Franklin assures
us, that he often dreamed of the issue of important
events in which he was engaged, believing the vision to
be the influence of inspired prophecy. Dr. Haycock,
of Oxford, too, is said to have composed and preached
sermons in his sleep, in despite even of buffetirigs.
These are not dreams, but the reveries of philosophers
and poets. The faculties of perception are suspended :
one only object occupies the mind, and the impression
on the memory is vivid and permanent. Of this reverie
I do not recollect a more interesting illustration than
the "Dream of Tartini," and its exquisite product, "La
Sonata di Diavolo." This admirable violinist and once
esteemed composer, relates the following anecdote as
the origin of his chef-d'muvre, the "Devil's Sonata."
"One night, it was in the year 1713, I dreamed that I
had made over my soul to his satanic ID;ajesty. Every
ABSTRACTIOX OF l~TEI,LECT. J(H
thing was done to my wink; the faithful menial antici-
pated my fondest wishes. Among other freaks, it came
into my head to put the violin into his hands, for I was
anxious to see whether he was capable of producing
anything worth hearing upon it. Conceive my astonish-
ment at his playing a sonata, with such dexterity and
grace, as to surpass whatever the imagination can con-
ceive. I was so much delighted, enraptured, and en-
tranced by his performance, that I was unable to fetch
another breath, and, in this state, I awoke. I jumped
up and seized upon my instrument, in the hope of re-
producing a portion, at least, of the unearthly harmonics
I had heard in my dream. But all in vain: the music
which I composed under the inspiration, I must admit
the best I have ever written, and of right I have called
it the 'Devil's Sonata;' but the falling off between that
piece and the sonata which had laid such fast hold of
my imagination is so immense, that I would rather have
broken my violin into a thousand fragments, and re-
nounced music for good and all, than, had it been pos-
sible, have been robbed of the enjoyment which the
remembrance afforded me."
In the cases of precocious children, who are said to
have "lisp'd in numbers," I do not doubt that the
secret may be referred to this concentration of genius.
~:lozart composed a sonata at the age of four. The
precocious little girl, Louisa Vinning, who was called
the "Infant Sappho," has yet eclipsed l\Iozart in this;
that at the age of two years and eight months she sang
repeatedly a melody perfectly new, and so perfect, that
it was written down from her lips, and entitled, "The
Infant's Dream." During all this, the little creature
was in such a state of apparent abstraction, that it was
believed by all around her that she walked and talked
in her sleep.
These mental concentrations can, by some cnthu-
362 ABSTRACTIO:X OF IXTELLECT.
siasts, be produced at pleasure. The paroxysm of the
improvisatore, for instance. But it is an effort which,
like the dark hour of the Caledonian seer, is not en-
dured with impunity: it points, indeed, emphatically
to the limit beyond which mind should not be strained.
The ~farquis de l\1oschati expressed himself to us,
as experiencing excitement like intoxication when he
sat himself to compose, and threw his whole soul into
his subject. It commenced with irregu~ar and laborious
breathing, excessive palpitations, vertigo, tinnitus auriurn,
-the perception of objects being lost. Then came
romantic fancies, like the visions of opium, "thoughts
that breathe, and words that burn." At the conclusion
was felt excessive exhaustion, and a state of mild cata-
lepsy ensued for five or six days together. This ex-
cited talent, therefore, is an evanescent madness.
CAsT. Another fling at poesy. 'Vere I an i'Illprovi-
satrice, you would not so libel my inspiration. " Listen,
lords and lady gay." In the summer of 18-, after the
Eisteddfod at Cardiff, we wandered over the hills to
Caerphilly, the gigantic towers of Owain Glyndwr.
As I lay under the celebrated Hanging Tower, which
is projecting eleven feet beyond its base, I reflected on
the strange circumstance of the arrest of so gigantic a
mass in its progress to prostration. "'Vhat/' I ex-
claimed, " is the power by which it is suspended?"
l\fy imagination heightened my reverie, and placed be-
fore me the image of the Destroyer, with his emblematic
scythe and glass, and he answered me thus :-
" Half-dreaming mortal, listen ! It is I,
Time, the destroyer, whose gigantic am1
Lifted this pond'rous ruin from its base.
Why hangs it thus, arrested in its course,
In bold defiance of attraction's law!
\\l1y, like its once proud lord, renown'd Glyndwr,
Sinks not its mouldcring graudeur to the ground !
Behold an emblem of vitality!
A tnle of mortal man, of thee, of nll !
Like this grey wall, thy tott'ring steps nrc st.-tiel,
And on a thread thy fragile life is hung ;
Yct leaning, ever leaning, to the grave.
One moment more, an atom of an age,
This mould'ring ruin, trembling on its bnsc,
May, like the marble shafts of lone Palmyra,
De hurl'd to earth, and cnm1ble into dust;
And, like the ruin, thou !"
And yet I was not mad.
Ev. I talk not of a gentle heart like yours, fair Cas-
taly; but of that extreme, when ideas are received by
a mind nearly exhausted, and lie for a while dormant.
As sleep and fatigue wear off, and consciousness returns,
these images are suddenly and brilliantly lighted up.
If intense impression shall have been made on the heart
or mind, intense will be the abstraction of the enthu-
siast. Until one thought is touched, the patient is
sane; but, when the chord vibrates, then, as in the
pathetic episode of Sterne's Maria, the paroxysm is ex-
pended in a flood of tears, or in a mad fit, or in a gush
of wildest music.
To the latter cause, we owe many beauties. of compo-
sition. Demarini, the Italian tragedian, acted a prison-
scene before Paganini, in which, with the pathos ofdeep
distress, the victim prayed for death. The maestro re-
tired to bed, but not to sleep ; his excited brain relieved
its painful sympathies by the composition of the "Ada-
gio apassionato." ,
Carl l\faria Von '-'...eber witnessed the waltzing of his
wife with a gallant cavalier. He retired in a mood of
jealous frenzy, and expressed the ideas which rankled
in his heart by the "Invitation ala Walse."
AsTR. Well, is there not something special in all
this?
Ev. Yes, truly,-a power imparted to some, withheld
from others,-genius.
364 ABSTRACTION OF INTELLECT.
AsTR. Yet, in explanation of this abstract reverie,
the phrenologist will, I dare say, satisfy himself by
merely deciding that the organ of concentrativeness is
strongly developed.
Ev. It is clear, at least, that the deep interest of the
subject of reflection overbalances the influence of the
external senses. The impression of objects is either
too slight, or rapid, to produce perception, or (in other
words), however the impression may be imparted to the
brain by the nerve, the brain is not sensible of it, and
there is therefore no perception. ·
So intense indeed has been this influence, that Pliny
contemplated the volcanic philosophy amidst the ashy
cloud of Vesuvius by which he was destroyed. And
Archimedes was so intent in solving a problem, during
the siege of Syracuse, that no sense of danger impelled
him to avoid the storm, or fly from the dagger. of the
assassm.
'Vhile Parmegiano was painting at Rome the " Vision
of St. Jerome," which now adorns the National Gallery
of England, the famous siege of that city was concluded
by its spoliation. Yet Parmegiano (absorbed with his
painting)· was unconscious of the tumult, until his studio
was burst open by some of the soldiers of the enemy.
A similar story is told, also, of Protogenes, when Deme-
trius was laying siege to Rhodes.
CAsT. The flappers of Laputa would soon have dis-
pelled this reverie.
Ev. But if they had thus flourished their official
bladders, perhaps the " Principia ~iathematica" had
not been written ; for Newton explained the extent of
his discoveries by his " always thinking unto them."
Somewhat like the effect of intense study on the
mind, the muscles of the limbs will be influenced by one
long-directed habit. Paganini was observed, on board a
steam-boat, constantly to repose on the sofa. During
ABSTRACTION OF fNTEI.LECT. 365
this state of reverie, his left ann assumed the peculiar
attitude in which he held his violin, until he saw that he
was noticed, when he altered its position.
The right hand of Benjamin 'Vest, of which I saw a
posthumous model at Lord de Tabley's, appeared to
have taken that fonn in which he was wont to hold the
pencil.
By this concentration, this full possession of the
mind, the wildness of fancy in the dark is often the
source of terror ; but this is ever lessened or dispelled
by any sound or sight which presents a subject to the
perceptive faculty. Such is the sudden glimmer of a
light, the barking of a dog, or the almost instinctive
effort of the school-boy,
" Whistling aloud to keep his courage up."
All these cases, then, indicate concentration of mind.
" :Mental conception is uninfluenced by conscious per-
ception."
I·may add, that, in the heat of engagement, soldiers
and sailors are often unconscious of being even seriously
wounded. In the battle of Lake Thrasymene, the
armies of Rome and Carthage were so absorbed in the
tumult and din of war, that an earthquake, which spread
desolation around them, was unheeded by these de-
termined soldiers.
InA. I have gleaned enough from your illustrations,
Evelyn, to believe that we may explain by them that
solemn and last reverie of the dying, when all other
ideas have ceased to influence, but the most impressive-
" The ruling passiou strong in death;"
when earthly life is on the wane, and the spirit, in this
expiring thol!ght, takes its last farewell of the flesh. I
remember some beautiful evidences of this influence.
366 ABSTRACTION OF INTELLECT.
It was observed that Porson, after a paralytic fit,
scarcely uttered a word of English ; but to the last
moment spoke Greek fluently.
Dr. Adam (a master of Sir \Valter Scott), on the sub-
sidence of delirium, exclaimed, "It grows dark.......:....the
boys may dismiss;" and instantly expired.
The last words of Dr. Abercrombie were addressed- to
an imaginary patient, regarding the care of his digestive
functions. ·
Some time after the trial of the Bristol magistrates,
Lord Tenterden lapsed into a stupor from exhaustion.
A short period before death he rallied, and, after con-
versing with his friends for a few minutes, he raised
himself on his couch, and said, " Gentlemen of the
jury, you may retire;" and then fell back and expired.
SO:\INOLENCE.-TRANCE.-CATALEPSY.
- - " In this borrow'd likeness ofshrunk death,
Thou shalt remain full two and forty hours,
And then awake, as from a pleasant sleep."
RortiEO AND JuLIET.
CAsT. Evelyn, you have again bewildered my thoughts.
Sleep, that should be the anodyne of the mind, has
awakened afresh my curiosity. I am in a mood for
mystery. Any more wonders?
Ev. The prototypes of sleep, dear Castaly, arc all
" mysteries," as you call them, and marked by ever-
varying shades.
The most impressive conditions of the mind are these :
Unconscious and passive, as in sound sleep.
Conscious yet passive, as in dreaming.
Conscious and willing, yet powerless, as in night-mare.
Unconscious yet active, as in somnambulism.
If we go deeper in our analysis, we shall discover a
state more wondrous still than all we have unravelled,
in which mind is unconscious, sensationless, unwishing,
motionless, powerless, as in trance or catalepsy ; an .ab-
solute apathy of body and complete oblivion of mind.
And yet life is there !
368 SOliXOI..EXCE.--TRA~CE.-CATALEPSY.
In the dream of night-mare, you remember, there is
a will, but no power., In the absolute senselessness of
trance, all sympathy between the brain or spinaltparrow,
or the influence of the nerves of motion, or of the will
on muscle, altogether cease.
I will not fatigue you with varieties, such as c'q,NM,
catalepsy, and the like, or with mere medical defini-
tions, as syncope or fainting, epilepsy, apoplexy, and
their analogies. ·
By the term trance I would define all those conditions
in which there is protracted derangenzent of volition or
the will; sensibility and voluntary action being sus-
pended, while the 1.;-ital functions are performed, yet
with diminished energy; the "deep sleep" of Paracelsus,
Hieronymus Fabricius, Celsus, and other "Titers of
antiquity.
In some the rosy colour of the lips and chee~s will
not' fade; in others, they are pale and bloodless; the
body becomes cold as marble,. the pulse often imper-
ceptible, and the vapour of breathing on a polished sur-
face alone distinguishes the still living being from the
perfect work of the sculptor. I have, however, had
patients who were rosy when they fell asleep, but be-
came pale about the end of the second day.
Girls often smile sweetly in full catalepsy, but the
countenance will become anxi<?us as waking approaches;
and this must eve.r excite suspicion. The body indeed
is, to the external world, dead; for although the cata-
leptic will often swallow food, while all the other muscles
are in spasm, this may, I believe does, depend on mere
irritability, by which, as I before told you, the brain is
first excited, and then directs a movement without the
mind's feeling. Catalepsy is so peculiar to young fe-
males of extreme sensibility, that it may be considered
an intense hysteria, depending on certain sympathies, or
resulting from sudden or powerful infJ.uences on the
SO:\lNOI.RNCl0:.- - 1'1L\NCE. - CA'rA LE1'8 \" . 3G!J
passions. 'rhc form of catalepsy marked by !tystn"ia is
least dangerous; but it is very stubborn. Probably
this is the form so common in Germany.
Pre\1.ous to_the cataleptic acme girls arc often maniac-
ally violent, and will then suddenly regain their temper
and · their reason. 'fhcy will sit and play with thci1·
fingers in a sullen mood, and the power of motion and
speech and other acts of volition may be alternately
impaired or lost. In some, the sleep has been preceded
by fits of lethargy, by lassitude, and inaptitude to exer-
tion, and perhaps a propensity to sleep-walking. The
decided state of catalepsy has begun in an epileptic
convulsion. In all, I think, I have seen combined with
this disorder, irregular determination of blood ; in one
case, where the taste and smell were gone for four or
five months, the climax was suicide by arsenic.
The countenance is almost always placid in cataleptic
sleep; the eyes being turned up, the pupils dilated, but
the eyelids closed. If the fit be the result of sudden
fright, the features will remain as they were at that
moment-the eyelid fixed, but the pupil usually sensible.
The joints and muscles are pliable, and may be moulded
to any form, but they remain in that position as rigidly
fixed as the limbs of a lay figure, or the anchylosed
joints of the self-torturing fakir; insensible to all sti-
muli, beating, tickling, or pricking.
I have seen patients lapse into a state of catalepsy, in
a moment, without a struggle. I remember, during one
of my visits to the asylum in Hoxton, a maniac, who
often in the midst of his occupation became instan-
taneously a statue; leaning a little forward, one arm
lifted up, and the index finger pointed as at some in-
teresting object; the eye staring and ghastly, and the
whole expression'as of one rapt in an ecstacy of thought
or VISIOn.
The waking from a trance, like the recovery from the
nb
370 80!\IXOLEXCE.-TRANCE.-CATALEPSY.
a.phy:cia of drowning, is painful. It is attended with a
struggle, and the hand is almost invariably placed
firmly over tlte !teart, as if its actions were a painful
effort to overcome·congesti()n.
In some cases, indeed, a purple hue will suddenly
suffuse the cataleptic body; the limbs are then extremely
rigid, but become pliant when the healthy tint is re-
stored.
The sensation in the brain of the cataleptic, as of
those recovering from drowning, resembles the pricking
of needles, the circulation soon becoming accelerated.
Hunger is usually intense when the patient awakes.
The usual duration of catalepsy is from twenty to forty
hours. The return of volition is commonly marked by
perspiration ; this premonitory sign is often followed by
a piercing shriek, as in the case of night-mare, and,
indeed, in a slight degree, of an infant's cry as s~on as
it is born.
It has appeared to me that the cataleptic is. marked
by extremes of feeling and disposition. The sensibility
either being too dull for the feeling of joy, or so in-
tensely excited by pleasure, as to approach the confine
of delirium. One of my patients, in particular, who
was an eighty-hour sleeper, endured a metamorphosis
from religious enthusiasm to theatrical mania. Her
Bible was discarded for romances and play-books, and
even the most licentious volumes.
CAsT. I have read, (I suppose in some moth-eaten
tomes enshrined I know not where,) of a scholar of
Lubeck, who slept seven years; in Diogenes Laertius,
of Epimenides, who slept fifty-one years in a cave; in
Ricaut, of the seven devoted sleepers of Ephesus (the
same, I presume, as the seven illustrious sleepers of
:Mahomet's tale in the Koran) ; and of the Leucomo-
rians, who fall asleep with the swallows early in No-
vember, and wake at the end of April.
6
One moment more among the legends of romance.
In the ''Hierarchic of the BJessed Angels" it is written,
that in a dark cavern of the Baltic, there were discovered
five men in Roman habits, so deeply sleeping, that all
efforts to awaken them were unavailing.
Ogier the Dane is tww sleeping in the dungeon of
Cronenburg Castle-(so reeordeth the "Danske Folk
Saga.")
Prince Arthur, too, was lying, when a chronicle was
writ, in a trance at Avclon; and the Britons, with
implicit belief, were watching for his awaking.
Years have passed since these mysterious legends
were penned, and I dare not say that the spells are
broken yet.
Ev. If they tllen slept, sweet Castaly, they are surely
sleeping now. Tales lose nothing by telling, and nature
is often thus magnified into a miracle. You may how-
ever believe this, that a periodical catalepsy with inter-
vals may last even for years. The "Memoirs of the
Academy of Berlin" record the ease of a woman, who
sunk into catalepsy twice a day for many years; during
which period she was married, and became the almost
unconscious mother of children.
Nay, there is a story of ~Iynheer Vander Gueht, of
Bremen, who, with very brief intermissions, slept and
dreamt for thirty years; so that, on the return of travel-
lers by sea or land, the primal question ·was, if Mr.
Vander Gucht was up!
IDA. Catalepsy, I believe, has been often feigned;
and, although it is astonishing with what apathy pain
may be endured, the imposture, I presume, may be
usually discovered by the proposition of some horrible
remedy.
Ev. Frequently"; but many impostors have withs.tood
the test, and triumphed in their deception. Yet it is
true that the perfect state of catalepsy has been, in
nb2
372 SOliNOLENCE.-TRANCE.-CATALEPSY.
very rare instances, voluntarily produced; thus exhibit-
ing the complete influence of will over an involuntar?.J
muscle, tlte heart.
The case of Colonel Townsend I adduce, as one of
undoubted authority. This officer was able to suspend
the action both of his heart and lungs, after which he
became motionless, icy cold, and rigid,-a glassy film
overspreading his eyes. As there was no breathing,
there was no vapour apparen{ on the glass, when held
to his mouth. During the many hours in which this
voluntary trance existed, there was a total absence of
consciousness, yet a faculty ofself-reanimation !
Avicenna speaks of one that could " cast himself into
a palsie when he list;" and Celsus, of a priest that
could "separate himself from his senses when he list,
and lie like a dead man, void of life and sense." Cardan,
the Pavian astrologer, brags of himself that he could do
as much, and that "when he list." .
Dr. Cleghorn, of Glasgow, relates the case of a man
who could stop the pulse at his wrist, and reduce him-
self to the condition of syncope, by his will, of course.
Barton, the holy maid of Kent, was enabled thus to
" absorb her faculties."
Restitutus, a presbyter, could also throw himself into
a trance,-being insensible, except to the very loudest
sounds. So says Augustin.
AsTR. So that there may not be much imposture in
the case, recorded in the "Spectator,'' of Nicholas Hart,
a professor of somnolency, who lived by sleeping. The
following is his advertisement in the "Daily Courant,"
of that time :-
"Nicholas Hart, who slept last year in Saint Bar-
tholomew's Hospital, intends to sleep this year at the
' Cock and Bottle,' in Little Britain."
I will freely confess to you, Evelyn, my scepticism
as to these ultra romantic legends; but may my own
SOMNOLESCE.-~TRANCE.-~CATALEPSY. 373
memory fhil me not, while I relate a few strange stories,
and _
demand of yourself confirmation.
Euphemia Lindsay, of Forfarshire, slept eight weeks,
having taken nothing but (possibly) a little cold water.
In the eighth week she died.
Angelica Vlies, of Delft, had fasted in a state of in-
sensibility from 1822 to 1828. She took nothing but
water, tea, and whey, and these in the most minute
quantities.
In a record, A.D. 154·5, I read that "'\Villiam Foxley,
a pot-maker to the :Mint in London, slept in the Tower
of London (not being by any means to be waked)
fourteen days and fifteen nights ; and, when he waked,
it seemed to him that the interval was but as one
night."
Samuel Clinton, of Timbury, near Bath, often slept
for a month; and once, from April to August. He
would, during this period, suddenly wake, but ere food
could be administered to him, he lapsed again into a
trance.
l\1argaret Lyall (of Edinburgh) slept from the morn-
ing of June 27th to the evening of the 30th, then from
July 1st to August 8th. Her breathing was scarcely
perceptible, and her pulse low ; one arm was sensitive,
the other senseless, to the pricking of pins. She had
never any subsequent cognizance of this sleep.
A lady, at Nismes, had periodical attacks of trance ;
and it is curious that the intervals of waking were
always of the same duration as the previous time of
sleeping, however these might vary.
In the year 1738, Elizabeth Orvin slept for four
days ; and, for the period of ten years afterwards,
passed seventeen hours of the twenty-four in sleep. No
stimuli were powerful enough to rouse her : acupunc-
turation, flagellation, and even the stinging of bees were
ineffectual. Like many other somnolents, she was
374 SO~!NOLENCE.-'I'RANCE.-CATALEPSY.
morose and irritable, especially previous to the sleep-
ing-fit.
" Elizabeth Parker, of l\iorley Saint Peter, in Nor-
folk, for a considerable time was very irregular in her
times of waking, which was once in seven days; after
which they became irregular and precarious, and though
of shorter duration, they were equally profound; an·d
every attempt at keeping her 3:wake, or waking her, was
vain. Various experiments were tried, and an itinerant
empiric, elated with the hope of rousing her from what
he called counterfeit sleep, blew into her nostrils the
powder of white hellebore; but the poor creature re-
mained insensible to the inhumanity ofthe deed, which,
instead of producing the boasted effect, excoriated the
skin of her nose, lips, and face."
The records of medicine, I doubt not, may add a
volume to these simple stories, and, perchance,. may
unfold to us something of the exciting causes which
have induced these strange conditions ; yet they seem
to me so various, in some the effect being so sudden, in
others so gradual, that it were vain for me to conjec-
ture.
Ev. The influence of fear, and fright, and extreme
joy, will often produce instantaneous paralysis; while
that of intense study, or an..-xiety, will steal on by de-
grees; and then, while in some cases the senses will
be entirely apathetic, in others, they will be acutely
excited.
~1endelssohn almost evefy evening immediately fell
into a trance whenever "philosophy" was even named
in his presence; and so acutely deranged was then his
conception of sound, that a voice of stentorian force
seemed to ring in his ears, repeating to him any impres-
sive conversation he had heard during the day.
'Vithout presuming to satisfy Astrophel in explaining
the full pathology of these curious cases, I may, by
analogy, illustrate his question by alluding to the acute
influence which impressions exert on the mind, and,
through it, on the body.
Captain D--, on service in Ceylon, was ordered to
march to the Kandian territory. This district had been
the grave of many officers who had resided in it. From
this circumstance, and the anticipation of a similar
fatality to himself, he became speechless, and died in
fifty hours.
During the pl3.aD'lle of Egypt, lots were drawn for a
decision as to what surgeon should remain with the
sick on the departure of the troops. :Mr. Dick, the
army inspector, relates tha:t on one occasion the surgeon
on whom the lot fell dropped dead.
In the treaty with l\1eer J affier, Colonel Clive omitted
the name of the Gentoo merchant, Omichund. This
man was induced to expect treasures to the amount of
one million, for his aid in deposing the Bengal nabob.
From this disappointment he became speechless, and
subsequently insane.
George Grokatski, a Polish soldier, deserted. He
was discovered a few days after, drinking and merry-
making. On his court-martial he became speechless,
unconscious, and fixed as a statue. For twenty days
and nights he lay in this trance, ·without nourishment ;
he then sunk and died.
Some girls (as we read in Platerus) playing near a
gibbet, one wantonly flung stones at the criminal sus-
pended on it. Being violently struck the ·body swung,
and the girl, believing that it was alive, and was de-
scending from the gibbet, fell into violent convulsions
and died.
The follm\';ng case, although not fatal, very power-
fully displays the paralyzing effects of imagination..
A lady in perfect health, twenty-three years of age,
was asked by the parents of a friend to be present at a
376 SO~INOLENCE.-'.rR.A~CE.-CATALEPSY.
severe surgical operation. On consideration, it was
thought wrong to expose her to such a scene, and the
operation was postponed for a few hours. She went to
bed, however, with the imagination highly excited, and
awoke in alarm hearing, or thinking she heard, the
shrieks of her friend under the agony of an operation.
Convulsions and hysterics supervened, and, on their
subsiding, she went into a profound sleep, which con-
tinued sixty-three hours. The most eminent of the
faculty were then consulted, and she was cupped, which
awoke her; but the convulsions returned, and she again
went to sleep, and slept, with few intermissions, for a
fortnight. The irregular periods continued for ten or
twelve years ; the length of the sleeping fits from thirty
to forty hours. Then came on irritability, and total
want of sleep, for three months; her usual time for
sleeping being then forty-eight hours. _
But if the sudden transition be excess ofjoy, its effect
may be equally melancholy.
"\Vescloff was detained as a hostage by the Kalmucs,
and carried along with them in their memorable flight
to China. His widowed mother had mourned him dead,
and, on his sudden return, the excess of joy was in-
stantaneously fatal.
In the year 1544 the Jewish pirate, Sinamus Taffurus,
was lying in a port of the Red Sea, called Orsenoe, and
was preparing for war, being then engaged in one with
the Portuguese. "\Vhile he was there he received the
unexpected intelligence that his son (who in the siege
of Tunis had been made prisoner by Barbarossa, and by
him doomed to slavery) was suddenly ransomed, and
corning to his aid with seven ships, well armed. He was
immediately struck as if with apoplexy, and expired on
the spot.
A Swiss student, writes Zimmerman, yielded himself
to intense metaphysical study, which .gradually pro-
SO!\lNOLENCE.· ~TRANCE. - CATAJ,I-~PSY. 37i
duccd a complete trance of the senses ; the functions
of the body being not inactive. After the lapse of a
year of apparent idiocy, each sense was successively ex-
cited by its proper stimulus ; the ear by loud sounds,
&c. 'Vhen these were restored, the mind was again
}Jerfect, although in this effort his strength was nearly
exhausted.
I may add that lunar influence, though it is now
somewhat out of fashion, was formerly believed even by
so sage a physician as Dr. ~lead and others, and Astro-
phel will thank me for blending with his own examples
the following case of catalepsy in a moon-struck maiden.
At the full of the moon: this damsel fell in a fit; the
recurrence obeying the regular periods of the tide.
During the flood she lay in a speechless trance, and
revived from it on the ebb. Her father was engaged
on the Thames, and so struck was he with the regularity
of these attacks, that on his return from the river he
correctly anticipated the condition of his daughter; and
even in the night he has arisen to his work, as her cries
on recovering from the fit were always a correct monitor
to him of the turning of the tide.
PREMA'rURE IN'rER~fEN'r.- RESUSCITA-
TION.
"Oh sleep! thou ape ofdeath, lie dull upon her;
And be her sense but as a monument,
Thns in a chapel lying."
" Sleep may usurp on nature many hours."
CYMBELINE.
PERICLES.
InA. These stories are, indeed, painfully interesting ;
but tell us, Evelyn, is it so certain that the shaft of
Azrael had irretrievably struck these unhappy creatures
of whom you speak? Is it not to be feared that in-
stances of premature sepulture have too often occurred
from want of scien~ific discernment? On the exhuma-
tion of the Cimetiere des lnnocens at Paris, during the
Napoleon dynasty, the skeletons were many of them
discovered in attitudes indicating a struggling to get
free : indeed some, we are assured, were partly out of
their coffins.
To avert this awful catastrophe it was the custom, in
the provinces of Germany, to place a bell-rope in the
hand of a corpse for twenty-four hours before burial.
vVe may look on this, perhaps, as one natural source
of romance and mystery ; for the ringing of bells by the
dead has been a favourite omen of the ghqstly legends.
PRElL\Tl'H.E l~TEIUIKX1'.
Ev. Alas! even my own professional study and duties
have not been free from these melancholy secncs; and
if I make not your gentle heart to tremble, fair Cnstaly,
I will recount some of those unhappy instances of fata-
lity, to which the errors and neglect of man may doom
his fellow-mortal.
l\1iss C- (of C-- Hall, in 'Varwickshire,) and
her brother were the subjects of typhoid fever. She
seemed to die, and her bier was placed in the family
vault. In a week her brother died also, and when he
was taken to the tomb, the lady ·was found sitting in Iter
grave-clothes on the steps of the vault; having, after her
waking from the trance, died of terror or exhaustion.
A girl, after repeated faintings, was apparently dead,
and was taken, as a subject, into the anatomical theatre
of the " Salpetriere," at Paris. During the night, faint
groans were heard in the theatre, but no search was
made. In the morning, it was evident that the girl had
attempted to disengage Iterselffrom the winding-sheet, one
leg-being thrust from off the tressles, and an arm resting
on an· adjoining table.
A slave girl of Canton, named Leaning, apparently
died. She was placed in a coffin, the lid of which re-
mained unfastened, that her parents might come and
see the corpse. Three days after the apparent death,
while the remains were being conveyed to the grave, a
noise or voice was heard proceeding from the coffin, and
on removing the covering, it was found the woman had
come to life again.
In 1838, at Tonnieus, in the Lower Garonne, as the
gravcman threw earth on a coffin he also heard groans.
~Iuch terrified, he ran away, and a crowd assembled.
On opening the 'coffin, the face of the' buried man was
distorted, and he had disengaged his arms from the folds
of his winding sheet.
The Emperor Zcno was, as it is written, prematurely
380 PREMATURE INTERMEXT.
buried; and, when the body was soon after casually
discovered, it '"as found that he had, to satisfy acute
hunger, eaten some flesh from his arm.
AsTR. One might think that l\Iaster Ainsworth, from
this record; sketched the episode of the sexton and the
old coffin in his "Rookwood." The truth is equal to
the fiction.
CAsT. "\Vhen I was ~t Breslau, in 1835, (and this is
not one of Astrophel's fictions~) a nun of the Ursuline
Convent was placed in her coffin in the church. At
midnight, the sisters assembled to chaunt the ·vigils over
the body of their sainted sister. "\Vhile the. holy hymn
was echoing through the oratory, the nun arose, tottered
to the altar, knelt before the cross, and prayed. The
sisters with a cry of horror awoke the abbess ; and on
her arrival, the nun ~o-ain arose, and lay down in her
coffin. The physician of the convent was speedily ~um­
moned, but, on his arrival, he found her dead.
There can scarcely be drawn 11 scene, combining the
sublime and beautiful of romance, in higher intensity
than this. It was the spectral visitation of a seraph.
InA. Like many sublimities of nature, these mysteries
have been profaned by unholy imitation; as for instance,
the reanimation of the nuns in the opera of" Robert le
Diable." But there is an awful romance mingled with
the history of those melancholy creatures, from whose
inanimate clay the immortal spirit was thought to have
parted, still more impressive. That instinctive, that in-
expressible dread, with which we contemplate a corpse,
is nothing in comparison with that thrill of astonish-
ment which overwhelms us, when a body becomes (as
in the miraculous recall of Lazarus) reanimated; when
a spirit appears to visit us from the dead. Yet this is
not fear, for we know it cannot injure us; it is a feeling
that we are with something beyond ourselves spiritual,
which had seemed to have endured a t~ansfiguration,
PREMATU llE INT-F.IUIF.N'l'. 381
and been admitted into the order of angelic beings.
There must be something of the supernatural whieh
creates this fearful wonder; an impression on the heart
that is an especial influence of the· Deity. Else should
we not behold with dread, instead of a sacred pleasure,
the success of our efforts in cases of suspended anima-
tion?
This visitation from another world is one ofthe surest
indications of our spirituality; and like the reanimation
of soul and mind, and consciousness, from deep and
undrcaming sleep, lighting up the body into brilliancy
and beauty, might drown a sceptic's reasoning in a flood
of holy faith, and overwhelm him with the belief of
immortality.
CAsT. It is this combination of vitality and death-
so seemingly a paradox-that forms the basis of many
of our deepest romances ; as the " Spectre Life in
Death," in the Ancient Mariner, of the melancholy
Coleridge,-himself a wild visionary of the first order.
If I remember, he is writing of a spectre ship.-
--" Betwixt us and the sun.
And straight the sun was fleck'd with bars-
(Heaven's mother send us grace !)
As if through a dungeon-grate he peer'd
With broad and burning face.
Alas! (thought I, and my heart beat loud,)
How fast she neers and neers.
Are those her sails that glance in the sun,
Like restless gossameres t
Are those her ribs, through which the sun
Doth peer, as through a grate t
And is that woman all her crew t
Is that a Death-and are there two 1
Is Death that woman's mate 1
Her lips were red, her looks were free,
Her locks were yellow as gold,
382 H.ESUSCITATIOX.
Her skin was as white as leprosy,
The night-mare Life in Death was she,
'Vho thicks man's blood with cold."
Ev. It is melancholy that a noble mind should be
so perverted by poppy-juice. And yet the l\lahometan
beats him hollow at this sort of burlesque.
'l"'here is a fiction in Sale's notes to the "Koran."
During the building of his magnificent temple, King
Solomon sleeps in death. He remains supported by
his staff, on which he had been leaning, until a worm
eats away the prop, and the body falls prostrate to the
ground.
But we rieed not go to the East for· our .specimens.
Even in the year 1839, in our Emerald Isle of super-
stition, they would have us believe a miracle of this
kind.
In a field near Lurgan, a man, called Farland, had
received money from a widow, wherewith to pay her
rent ;-this he failed to do. On her remonstrance and
declaration, she was asked to name her witnesses. She
answered,-" No one but God and herself." "Then,"
rejoined the man,, "your God was asleep at the time."
The atte~tation of three witnesses records, that he
was instantly struck in a trance as he was resting on
his spade, and in that attitude he had ever since con-
tinued!
CAST. And is it not a blot on the page of science,
that so many ill-fated creatures are thus, through an
error, doomed to dissolution? Say, gentle Evelyn, has
not your philosophy discovered some mode of discern-
ment between life and death, which would smile the
philanthropist on to patient watching?
Ev. To a degree. But it were vain to offer here
precepts for such discrimination, which, sooth to say,
are not yet absolute. The rosy tint of complexion may
remain for some time, and even perspiration may break
RERPSCI1'ATIOX.
forth, after deatlt ; or the body may assume the uw.'(t
deatltlike aspect, and yet vitality is only in abeyance.
Among our recoveries, it is true, there arc many spon-
taneous rousings, and this especially if deep impression
has been the cause of tranee.
Listen to the following, from a journal of 1831:<:·
" The wife of Thomas Benson, livery-lace maker, of
Great Queen Street, Lincoln's Inn Fields, being sud-
denly taken ill, to all appearance expired; and, when
every symptom of life had fled, the body was duly laid
out. On the following night, between nine and ten
o'clock, whilst the undertaker was in the house receiv-
ing instructions for the funeral, to the astonishment
and terror of the whole family, ~Irs. Benson came down
stairs, having been in a trance nearly thirty hours.
Her situation has so terribly shocked her, that but faint
hopes are entertained ofher recovery."
It is melancholy to know how often these cases are
abandoned to nature; but science may do much, and
sltould do more, to relieve them; although we possess
not the wondrous phial of Renatus, nor have developed
the creative mysteries of Prometheus or Frankenstein.
Yet the recovery of Fran~ois de Civille, was almost
as great a wonder. He was thrown, at the siege of
Rouen, into insensibility. He was, in this state, carried
home by his servant. During a week he became warm,
but exhibited no other sign of life. He was, at this
period, flung out of a window by the besiegers, and cast
upon a dunghill, where he lay naked for three or four
days. Yet, even after this, he was restored to life.
AsTR. You confess the wonder, Evelyn, that is some
concession; you may, perchance, believe another of
equal interest.
"~1y mother being sick to death of a fever three
months after I was born, which was the occasion she
nursed me no longer, her friends and servants·thought,
384 RESUSCITATIOX.
to all outward appearance, she was dead, and so almost
two days and a night. But Dr. "\Vinston coming to
comfort my father, went into my mother's room, and
looking earnestly in her face, said, ' She is so hand-
some, and looks so lovely, I cannot think she is dead;'
and suddenly took a lancet out of his pocket, and ·with
it cut the sole of her foot, which bled. Upon this he
immediately caused her to be laid upon the bed again,
and to be rubbed, and such means, as she came to life,
and opening her eyes, saw two of her kinswomen stand
by her, my Lady Knolleys and my Lady Russell, both
with great wide sleeves, as the fashion then was, and
said, ' Did not you promise me fifteen years, and are
you come again?' which they not understanding, per-
suaded her to keep her spirits quiet in that great weak-
ness wherein she then was; but some hours after she
desired my father and Dr. Howlsworth might be left
alone with her, to whom she said, ' I will acquaint you,
that during the time of my trapce I was in great quiet,
but in a place I could neither distinguish or describe;
but the sense of leaving my girl, who is dearer to me
than all my children, remained a trouble upon my
spirits. Suddenly I saw two by me clothed in long
white garments, and methought I fell down upon my
face upon the dust, and they asked me why I was so
troubled in so great happiness. I replied, 0 let me
have the same grant given to Hezekiah, that I may live
fifteen years, to see my daughter a woman; to which
they answered, It is done, and then at that instant I
awoke out of my trance.' And Dr. Howlsworth did
then affirm that that day she died made just fifteen
years from that time."
I remember a story of the effect of deep impression
on a sensitive mind : the sleep of a love-sick Juliet,
without the entrancing draught of the friar.
A young French lady in the Rue .St. Honore, at
•
HESFSCITA'I'JO:-:. :385
Paris, was condemned by her father to a hated maniage
while her heart was devoted to another. She fell into
a trance, and was buried. Undcr some strange influ-
ence her lover opened her grave, and she was revived,
and married. Thus the romance of the "Beauty of
Verona" was acted without its tragedy.
I have heard, but where I recollect not, a story of
another French lady, who was actually the subject of
an anatomist. On the evidence of some faint signs of
vitality, he not only restored the lady to life, but united
himself to her in marriage.
There is no doubt, also, that Rachael, Lady Russell,
would have been buried alive, had not the devoted
affection of her husband, _and his constant visits to her
coffin, prevented it.
I read, too, that Shorigny, an hysterical girl in Paris,
was watched daily by her physician, after he was assured
by the friends that she was dead. On the sixth day,
the cloth covering was seen to move, the eyes soon after
opened, and she gradually recovered.
Ev. It is one of the anomalies of our science, that
similar causes will often produce opposite effects. We
may be thrown into trance by fright; and intense alarm
may be the cause of recovery. I may relate an oriental
anecdote as an analogy, which, however, I beg you to
receive with some reservation.
A Persian, at the siege of Sardis, was about to kill
Crresus, whom he did not recognise. By his side was
the king's dumb child, who, in a sudden paroxysm of
agony, screamed out. " Kill not Crresus." From this
instant (as it were a miracle), Herodotus writes, his
speech was fully restored !
'\Ve learn from Bourgeois, in 1838, that a medical
man, from the sudden influence of grief, sunk into -a
cataleptic state, but his consciousness never left him.
The lamentations of his wife, the sympathetic condo-
c c
386 RESVSCITATIOX.
lence of his medical friends, and the arrangements re-
garding his funeral, were to him distinctly audible. He
knew that he was in his coffin, and that there was a
solemn procession following him to the grave. As the
solemn words of "Earth to earth" were uttered, and
the dust fell on his coffin lid, the consciousness of this,
and his horror at his impending fate, burst the fetters of
his icy trance-he shrieked aloud, and was saved.
In the " Psychological ~Iagazine" we read of a lady
who fell into a state of catalepsy, after a violent nervous
disorder.
"It seemed to her, as if in a dream, that she was
really dead. Yet she was perfectly conscious of all that
happened around her in this dreadful state. She dis-
tinctly heard her friends speaking, and lamenting her
death, at the side of her coffin; she felt them pull on
her dead clothes, and lay her in it. This feeling pro-
duced a mental anxiety which was indescribable. She
tried to cry, but her soul was ;without power, and could
not act on her body. She had the contradictory feel- ·
ing, as if she were in her own body, and yet not in it,
at one and the same time. It was equally impossible
for her to stretch out her arm, or to open her eyes, as to
cry, although she continually endeavoured to do so.
The internal anguish of her mind was, however, at its
utmost height, when the funeral hymns were sung, and
when the lid of the coffin was about to be nailed on.
The thought that she was to be buried alive was the
first one which gave activity to her soul, and caused it
to operate on her corporeal frame."
I have been assured that the soldier who has been
placed in his grave by such an error, has been awoke in
his coffin by the volley fired over him.
Parallel with these are the instances in which vitality
seemed to be instantly excited by acute pain.
I remember the case of a cataleptip girl, related by
I~
RESCSCI'l'ATfOX. :387
the Abbe :\fenon, who was doomed to dissection ; the
first stroke of the scalpel awoke her, and she lived.
Cardinal Sommaglia was not so fortunate. He fell
into syncope from intense grief, and it was decided that
he should be opened and embalmed. As the surgeon's
knife punctured the lungs, the heart throbbed, and the
cardinal attempted to a-vert the knife with his hand;
but the die was cast, and he shortJy died.
The Abbe Prevost was also sacrificed in this way.
As Vesalius, the physician of Philip II., was opening
the thorax of a Spanish gentleman, the heart paJpitated.
Death also occurred here. Vesalius was brought before
the Inquisition, but was pardoned.
A gentleman was seized, apparently with apoplexy,
while at cards. A vein was opened in both arms, but
no blood flowed. He was placed in a room with two
watchers, who slept, alas ! too long; for in the morning
the room was deluged with blood from the punctures,
and his life was gone.
These are indeed unhappy instances of the errors of
omission and commission entailed on the fallibility of
science. I believe a French author, Bruhier, has col-
lected fifty-two cases of persons buried alive, four which
were dissected prematurely, fifty-three which recovered,
and seventy-two which were falsely reported dead.
AsTR. There is a solemn problem associated with
this, on which I have often reflected, the solution of
which, I presume, your philosophy cannot offer to us.
At what moment would the mind cease to influence the
body, were there no recovery from the trance ? I have
sometimes felt a mysterious influence, apart, I am sure,
from philosophy, that whispered me, the life, which I
had watched in its ebb, was at length gone. Yet, of
the transit of an immaterial spirit, although convinced
of the sublime truth, it is certain we know nothing.
Ev. Nothing demonstrative. It is not, however, when
cc2
388 RESUSCITATIOX.
the body seems dead, for consciousness, or the systemic
life, may for awhile be suspended by mere cold. But
dissolution is that point, unknown to us, when the prin-
ciple of life (whether that be the influence of arterial
blood, or electricity, magnetism, or galvanism,) is not
excitable-when molecular death has ensued ; not even
irritability, that vis insita or vis nervosa of Haller, re-
mammg. Of course mind must instantly depart on the
commencement of decomposition, the brain being tllen
totally incompatible with mind. The stoics believed
the soul to occupy the body until it was putrified, and
resolved into its materia prima.
AsTR. I once thought, Evelyn, that the difference in
the tenacity of life in the man and the zoophyte might
with some subtlety be explained on this principle-
thus : That the life of a reasoning creature was in its
soul; that of an inferior animal in its spinal irrit[!bility.
Thus, when man is decapitated, his soul is gone from
him-he is dead; but when vitality is in the vis nervea,
as in the insect, life may exist without a head, that is,
the organ of a soul. The butterfly will flutter, I am told,
long after decapitation.
Ev. The excito-motary principle illustrates this fact,
without the requisition of such a notion; and life, we
know, may be artificially sustained for a time after de-
capitation. The interesting physiology of the 'reflex
actions of a nerve explains this, and all the terrific con-
vulsions of galvanized bodies.
CAsT. I think I have a glimpse of your meaning,
Evelyn. Nlay we not believe, then, that there is truth -
in the affirmation, that Charlotte Corday's cheeks
blushed at her exposure after her decollation ?
Ev. There is far more romance than truth, fair Cas-
taly, in this story; but I do believe the probability of a
story almost as marvellous, that the lips of ~Iary Stuart
prayed visibly after her head fell from her body. Srem-
ltESUSCI'rATlON. 38!)
mering has written, that if the open eyes of a decollated
head be turned full on the sun, the lids will immediately
close, but this of course without consciousness.
CAsT. And yet some learned men believed the head
of Charlotte Corday sensible of its state, from this as-
serted fact of its blushing.
Ev. They should not have helieYed without complete
evidence. Indeed, this question may now be deemed
decided in the negative, by the experiments of a learned
professor of Heidelburg, on the head of Sebastian Zink,
decollated at Rastadt. On placing bitters on the tongue,
and hallooing " pardon" in his ear at the instant of
decapitation, it was prove·d that there was an utter
insensibility to all.
InA. Then sensation is instantly destroyed. In this,
as in all his dispensations, how is the mercy of the
Deity displayed !
Ev. It is still a question with us, whether our phy-
sical sensations on the point of dissolution are often so
acute as they appear.
Cabanis and the famous Guillotine declared their
conviction that no pain was felt at the moment of or
after decapitation. In the works of Lord Bacon, we
read of one who was suspended till he was all but dead,
and his declaration was that his suffering was a mere
trifle. Cowper also left a manuscript, in which he
states that in one of his three attempts at suicide, he
hung himself over his door in the Temple, but that he
did not suffer in the least.
InA. And in drowning?
Ev. 'Vhile the medical committee of the Humanc
Society were framing those scientific rules which have
rendered the process of resuscitation so successful, I
remember especially one pale and melancholy girl, who
glided in before us like a spectre. She had attempted
suicide, but her intention was happily thwarted, after
390 RESUSCITATIOX.
she had been for many minutes in the water, and was
apparently lifeless.
True, the mental agony which prompts to such an
act, will often overwhelm sensation ; but this creature
was conscious of her act, and assured us that the sensa-
tion of drowning was but an intense feeling of faintness
preceding a sinking into insensibility, with a short spas-
modic struggle ; an uneasiness rather tlwn a pain. 'Vhen
Clarence therefore, recounting his dream, exclaims,-
" l\Iy God, methought what pain it was to drown !"
I believe, he should rather have referred his feelings to
his recovery, if the words of the pale girl were true;
for, when consciousness and sensation are returning,
the feeling is intense. Throughout the body, as it is
recovering from apathetic numbness, the sense of re-
turning circulation of the blood is terrible : an _acute
sensation ofpins and needles in the brain and the marrow
of the spine. No wonder, then, that these resuscitated
beings will request that no efforts may be made, should
they again be in the state of suspended animation.
The sensation on being born is probably as acute as
that on dissolution.
InA. Then there is consciousness ?
Ev. The evidence of Dr. Adam Clarke will illustrate
this interesting question. Yet I differ somewhat 'vith
him, regarding so perfect a consciousness during sub-
mersion. In his life, you will see the following dia-
logue with Dr. Lettsom, in which Clarke describes his
own case of immersion :
" Dr. Lettsom said,-' Of all that I have seen re-
stored, or questioned afterwards, I never found one who
had the smallest recollection of any thing that passed,
from the moment they went under water, till the time
in which they were restored to life and thought.' Dr.
Clarke answered Dr. L.,-' I knew a case to the con-
RESUSCITATIOX. 391
trary.' 'Did you, indeed?' 'Yes, Dr. L., and the case
was my own. I was once drowned.' And then related
the circumstances, and added,-~' I saw my danger, but
thought the mare would s'virn, and- I knew I could ride
when we were overwhelmed. It appeared to me, that I
had gone to the bottom with my eyes open. At first, I
thought I saw the bottom clearly, and then felt neither
apprehension nor pain; on the contrary, I felt as if I
had been in the most delightful situation ; my mind
was tranquil and uncommonly happy. I felt as if in
Paradise, and yet I do not recollect that I saw any per-
son; the impressions of happiness seemed not to be
derived from any thing around me, but from the state
of my mind. And yet I had a general apprehension of
pleasing objects ; and I cannot recollect that any thing
appeared defined, nor did my eye take in any object,
only I had a general impression of a green colour, as of
fields or gardens. But my happiness did not arise from
these, but appeared to consist merely in the trqnquil,
indescribably tranquil, state of my mind. By and by,
I seemed to awake as out of a slumber, and felt unut-
terable pain and difficulty of breathing; and now I
found I had been carried by a strong wave, and left in
very shallow water upon the shore, and the pain I felt
was occasioned by.the air once more inflating my lungs
and producing respiration. How long I had been
under water I cannot tell; it may however be guessed
at by this .circumstance : when restored to the power of
reflection, I looked for the mare, and saw her walking
leisurely down shore towards home, then about half a
mile distant from the place where we were submerged.
Now, I aver,-lst. That in being drowned I felt no
pain ;-2nd. That I did not, for a simple moment, lose
my consciousness ;-3rd. I felt indescribably happy,
and, though dead as to the total suspension of all
the functions of life, yet I felt no pain in dying; and
392 RESUSClTATIO:\'".
I take for granted, from this circumstance, those who
die by drowning feel no pain, and that probably it
is the easiest of all deaths ;-4th. That I felt no pain
till once more exposed to the action of the atmo-
spheric air, and then I felt great pain and anguish
in returning to life, which anguish, had I continued
under water, I should have never felt ;-5th. That
animation must have been totally suspended from
the time I must· have been·· under water, which time
might be in some measure ascertained by the distance
the mare was from the place of my submersion, which
was at least half a mile, and she was not, when I first
observed her, making any specd;-6th. 'Vhether there
were any thing preternatural in my escape, I cannot
tell ; or whether a ground swell had not, in a merely
natural way, borne me to the shore, and the retroces-
sion of the tide (for it was then ebbing), left me exposed
to the open air, I cannot tell. My preservation must
have been the effect of natura). causes; and yet it ap-
pears to be more rational to attribute it to a superior
agency. Here then, Dr. L., is a case widely different,
it appears, from those you have witnessed, and which
argues very little for the. modish doctrine of the mate-
riality of the soul.' Dr. Lettsom appeared puzzled with
this relation, but did not attempt to make any·remarks
on it."
And well he might ; for if animation were totally
suspended, consciousness would have been suspended
also.
rrn.ANSNIIGRA.TION.-ANALYSIS OF TRANCE.
"Thou shalt hold the opinion of Pythagoras, ere I will allow of thy VI iLl;
and fear to kill a woodcock, lest thou dispossess the soul of thy grandam''
TWELFTH NIGHT.
" Through all thy veins shall run
A cold and drowsy humour, which shall seize
Each vital spirit." RoMEO AND JuLIET.
AsTR. You have granted me more than you desire, dear
Evelyn. If life be restored, it had never deserted the
body, and yet the mind had deserted it.
The mind and body, then, are both independent of
each other. From this truth, a metaphysical question
of deep and wondrous interest arises. In 'What condition
does the mind exist, during so long a period, uninjluencing
and uninfluenced by the power of perception? I remem-
ber searching for some elucidation of this mystery
among those ghost-stories of the Hebrews, founded on
the "purgatorie of souls" in Stehelin's "Traditions of
the Jews," but I rose from my reading unenlightened.
InA. And ever will, Astrophel. Profane curiosity
must fail in such a study; adoration alone can sanctify
this mystic question, on which theologians and philoso-
phers, even those devoutly confident in the sublime
truths of immortality, have so essentially differed.
Like AstrOJlhel, Paley inquires where is the soul
394 TRANS1\1IGRATION.
during suspended vitality? and Priestly, where when
the body was created?. Hume, with the subtlety of a
sceptic, asks how can the soul long be the same, seeing
that, like the body, its particles are constantly chang-,
ing? 'Vhile Glanville thinks himself a wondrous wight,
as he prates of its "essential spissitude, a something that
is more subtle than body, contracting itself into a leis
ubi."
Were this sublime secret fathomable by the deepest
intellect, then would be unfolded things above, which
are ordained to be ever mysteries to creatures on earth ;
such as the future existence of the spirit, and the nature
of Paradise.
Although revelation has given us glimpses, enough to
satisf:.V humble devotion, what mind can decide on the
exact nature and changes of its own future state ? The
negative answer is at once returned by the vari~ty of
these learned opinions :-That the soul is, immediately
after death, submitted to its reward or punishment;-
That its state after death is one of half happiness or
misery, until it be again joined to its body on the resur-
rection ; and then it shall enjoy or suffer the extremes of
felicity or torment ;-That the soul rests in quiet un-
consciousness until the day of judgment ;-And lastly,
that souls are purified by purgatory and comparative
suffering, and then are admitted into the realms of
perpetual enjoyment.
AsTR. Is it not strange that in this notion of purga-
tory, with slight variations, pagans, and Romanists, and
Egyptians, and Brahmins, so nearly accord? In the
creed of the Brahmins, there is something of sublimity,
whatever may be their error, and Ida will not chide, if
I repeat the essence of their creed, which Robertson
has gathered from the "Baghvat Gceta."
" Every intelligent nature, particularly the souls of
men, they conceived to be portions separ.ated from this
,,
TRA~SlliGRXTIO:S".
great spirit; to which, after fulfilling their destiny on
eart:h, and attaining a proper degree of purity, they
would be again reunited. In order to efface the stains
with which a soul, during its residence on earth, has
been defiled by the indulgence of sensual and corrupt
appetites, they taught that it must pass, in a long suc-
cession of transmigrations, through the bodies of dif-
ferent animals, until, by what it suffers and wlu~t it
leaves in the various forms of its existence, it shall be
so thoroughly refined from all pollution, as to be
rendered meet for being absorbed into the divine es-
sence, and returns, like a drop, into that unbounded
ocean from which it originally issued."
Aristotle, in taking up this notion of transmigration
in his book "De Anima," says that " the soul was
always joined to a body, sometimes to one, sometimes to
another." And from this idea were taken the stories
of Fadlallah and the Dervis, in the "Spectator," of the
" Transmigrations of Indus," and the beautiful fable of
"Psyche," or the soul, which when a body died, could
not live alone on earth, and so crept into another.
Herodotus, in the second book of his history, has some
allusions to the Egyptian creed; and, indeed, the fear of
this transmigration was the origin of mummies among
the Copts. Their belief that the soul (the immortality
of which they very early, if not the first, decided,) could
not leave the body when entire, induced them to pre-
serve that body as long as possible; and the mummy
unrollers and hierog~yphic readers must commit sad
sacrilege, by exposing their sacred dust to the decom-
position of air.
'Vhen the body was dissolved, however, the soul
entered that of some animal that instant born; and
profane commentators have, on this creed, presum<.>d to
explain the sacred story of the "banishment and savage
life of Nebuchadnezzar." At the end of 30,000 years,
396 'rRANS~liG RATION.
it again entered that of a man; and it is likely that
their object in embalming was, to have the soul re-enter
tile same body from choice and habit.
Simonides, four hundred years after the siege of Troy,
ungallantly reversed this doctrine, deciding that "the
souls of women were formed of the principles and
elements of brutes." The Pythagorean system was, if
not more courteous, at least m?re just.
" Thus all things are but altered, nothing dies ;
And here and there th' embodied spirit flies.
By time, or force, or sickness, dispossess'd,
And lodges, where it lights, in bird or beast ;
Or hunts without, till ready limbs it find,
And actuates those according to their kind.
From tenement to tenement is toss'd,
The soul is still the same, the figure only lost.''
This is from Dryden's translation of Chaucer.
And Burton's record is as follows :
"The Pythagoreans defend Mtttempsyclwsis and Palin-
genesia, that souls go from one body to another, epota
prius Letltes nuda, as men into wolves, beares, dogs,
hogs, as they were inclined in their lives, or participated
in conditions :
'-- inque ferinas
Possumus ire dmnus pecudumque in oorp<>ra txnuli.'
" Lucian's cock was first Euplwrbus, a captaine:
' llle ego ( nam mmnini) Trojani tempore belli
Pantlwules Euplwrbus eram.' "
And Jllato, in Timreus, and in Phredo-
Ev. Enough of Plato, dear Astrophel ; or believe,
with me, that !tis philosophy on this point was merely
figurative of tile similarity ofmind, or genius, or feature,
between tile dead and tile living ;-as it was said of old,
that the soul of Raphael had transmigrat~d to the qody
TRAXS~liOUATIOi'o:. 3!)7
of Francesco :Mazzola (Parmcgi~mo), becaww his style
and personal beauty so closely resembled those of the
all but divine master of his art.
And pray what wa.o;; the gist of lhat special astrono-
mer, who affirmed that he " saw something written in
the moon ?"-A wild romance only? No, forsooth.
Pythagoras may classically vociferate-
" - - crrat, ct illinc,
Hue venit, hinc illuc, et quoslibet occupat artus
Spiritus : cque fcris humana in corpora transit,
Inquc feras noster."
But read further, and you will find the high moral to
be n severe injunction against flesh-eating:
" Then let not piety be put to flight,
To plea.'le the taste of glutton appetite ;
But suffer innate souls secure to dwell,
Lest from their seats your parents you expel:
With rabid hunger f<.Jed upon your kind,
Or from a beast dislodge a brother's mind."
Think you this injunction will be obeyed, in the face of
the "Almanac des Gourmands?"
InA. Evelyn is severe. May I tell him that, among
the records of the East, he will find incidents blended
with this idea which may almost consecrate the creed
of a Pagan. As the honey is hung close to the poisoned
sting of the bee, there may be a bright spot to illumi-
nate the gloomy annals of superstition. The very belief
in transmigration may impart an atom of mercy, even
to an infidel; and where superstition, shorn of the light
of Christianity, must prevail, it were better sure to foster
that notion which may, even in one little sentiment,
half humanize the heart.,
Listen to this contrast, between some orient sects,
along the eastern shores of Hindostan. The daugl~tcrs
of Guzzer;tt fold their infants to their bosoms drugged
398 'fRANS:\IIGRATION.
with opium; and when the babe is thus poisoned, the
Hindu girl will answer with a languid and seeming
innocent smile, " It is not difficult to blast a flower-
bud."
Then the Kurrada Brahmins (as we read in the
" Rudhiradhyaya"), believing themselves the agents of
Vishara Boot, the spirit of poison, sacrifice the pundits
to their vampire goddess, ~faha-Lackshmi.
Equally blind, yet more happy in the nature of their
superstition, are the Shravuch Banians, or the prose-
lytes of J ena. The Yati, or offiGiating priest of this
order, in purifying the temples, sweeps the floor with
the Raju-hurrun, a broom of cotton-threads, lest hap-
less one little insect may be destroyed. And this we
may believe, from the creed of transmigration being
influential among these people. Sir Paul Rycaut also,
in his oriental history, informs us of parallel incidents
among the devout Mahomedans, who, believing that in
the body of a brute may reside ~he soul of a departed
relative, ransom, with their gold, many a bird that
would otherwise flutter away its captivity in a cage.
CAsT. I will not flout your praises, Ida; but, in our
own island,.this illusion has rather led to captivity. I
remember the story of a lady, living in 'Vorcestershire,
who, under the innocent delusion that her daughters
were changed into singing-birds, hung her pew in the
cathedral ·with cages of goldfinches and linnets. And
Lord Orford, in his " Reminiscences," thus records the
monomania of the Duchess of Kendal :
" In a tender mood, he (King George) promised the
duchess that if she survived him, and it were possible
for the departed to return to this world, he would make
her a visit. The duchess, on his death, so much ex-
pected the accomplishment of that engagement, that a
large raven, or some black fowl, flying into one of the
windows of her villa, at Isleworth, she '~as persuaded
A~ALYSIS OF TRANCJ:o: AXD ITS 8YNONY!\U:S. 3!)!)
it was the soul of her departed monarch so accoutred,
and received and treated it with all the respect and ten-
derness of duty, till the royal bird, or she, took the last
flight."
AsTR. You spoke of the absolute sen,selessne.vs of
trance; and yet there were some hints of the awakening
power of fear. Is this consistent?
Ev. I expected your objection. In the cases of per-
fect catalepsy, the brain is not conscious of its mind,
or if the mind be active, there is no assurance of it.<~ acti-
vity. But, as its faculties are awakened, it usually be-
gins to work exactly where it left off;-one of the most
imposing proofs, both of a separate existence during
life, and of our bodies' unconsciousness of this transient
disunion.
AsTR. I may own, Evelyn, that your illustrations of
our questions, in despite of some straining at explana-
tion, carry, on many points, conviction to my own
mind, but not on all. 'fhere is another question equally
interesting with the former. How is vitality preserved
during this protracted abstinence?
Ev. Remember, dear Astrophel, my confession, that
there are inexplicable mysteries. But, to the point of
your last question. vVe are aware of the long period
during which the body may fast after shipwreck, or
beneath a fallen cliff, or even on the incarceration of
animals for the purpose of experiment. Thus Captain
Bligh, and seventeen persons, sailed four thousand
miles in an open boat, with a small bird occasionally for
the food of all. The Juno's crew, wrecked off Aracan,
existed twenty-three days without food; and the wreck
of the Medusa is fresh in our memories. Here the
body feeds on its own fat, shrinking until that supply is
lost, and then it dies.
I might relate to you the very impressive stories of
Anne :Moore, of Tutbury; of Janet ~l'Cleod, told by
6
40(J ANALYSIS OF TRAXCE
Dr. l\fackenzie; and many strange facts related by Dr.
'Villan, Sir 'Villiam Hamilton, and others.
I might refer you to legends, of which I can scarcely
press for your belief. As the strange but authenticated
story ofAnna Garbero, of Racconiggi, forty miles from
Turin, who existed without nutrition for two years, be-
coming like a shrivelled mummy. And that of Ev""e
Hergen, who existed thirteen years upon the odour of
flowers ! ~ut even with that incredulous frown of
Astrophel's, and that faint smile of thine, fair Castaly,
let me at once to my explanations.
In natural sleep the functions of the body are im-
peded. One of these is digestion. As there is little
waste of the system there is little necessity for repletion,
and life can be supported by a very slight action of the
heart, a minute current of blood; like the slender
vitality of infants, who, even in a state of health, seem
frequently scarcely to breathe. The circulation is ma-
terially influenced in sleep, the ,pulse being slower and
more feeble than during waking ; the relaxation of the
cutaneous vessels inducing frequent perspiration, espe-
cially in debilitated systems, and in the last stages of
adynamic fevers.
The body of the cataleptic patient descends to the
condition of less complex animal life, in which there
appears a much greater simplicity of organization; and
we well know, as we descend in the scale of creation,
towards the cold-blooded single-hearted animals, and
especially if we reach the zoophyte, in how exact a pro-
portion to this simplicity of structure~ is the tenacity of
life increased. " Fish," says Sir John Franklin, " were
taken out of the nets fi.·ozen, and became a solid mass of
ice, being by a blow of.a hatchet easily split open;
they, however, recovered their vitality on being thawed."
A course of systematic abstinence will enable us, if
we wished it, to endure extreme privat~ons, which a
AXD 11'S SYNOXYMES. 401
high feeder would soon sink under ; nnd this is probably
the discipline adopted by the fakirs of India, who
fast so long under the influence of superstitious de-
votion.
Vaillant's spider lived without food nearly one year ;
John Hunter's toad fourteen months; land tortoises
eighteen months; a beetle three years; and two ser-
pents, according to Shaw, five years; an antelope has
survived twenty days without food; some dogs forty
days ; an eagle 23 days.
Now all animals fall asleep at certain temperatures,
which they cannot resist, but the common effect of
extreme cold is death. Dr. Solander was yielding to
the influence of intense cold in Terra del Fuego, but was
saved by the firmness ofSir Joseph Banks. Richmond,
the black, lay dmvn on the snow to sleep, and died.
There is a close analogy between this state and the
hyhernation of animals, although the causes are not
similar. Animalcuke often become torpid for lack of
mojsture, and, even after the lapse of twenty-seven
years, have been revivified by water. The smallfurcu-
laria anastohea will repeatedly become animated and
lively by a single drop of water, its previous condition
being completely quiescent. The snail, the alligator,
indeed most of the ophidian and saurian reptiles, assume
the torpid state in a period of extreme drought; and
Humboldt states this also of the centenes solosus, a
l\fadagascar hedgehog.
This hybernation of animals, as of the marmot and
the dormouse, resembles the deep sleep arising from
cold of a certain degree ; for if this be intense, they will
sometimes be momentarily roused from it. They may
be constantly kept awake by heat and powerful light.
Thus hybernation and the sleep of plants take pJace
from the withdrawal of stimuli ; heat being the animal-
light the vegetable stimulus.
nd
402 AXALYSIS OF TRANCE
CAsT. The sleep of plants? a fiction surely!
Ev. Nay, a truth. The irritability of plants is ex-
cited by their peculiar stimulus; when this is with-
drawn, they fall to sleep. Most of the discous flowers
turn to the sun in his course, as the sun-flower, the
helianthus, and the croton. The acacia leaves at noon
point towards the zenith. The tamarind, the o:calis, and
the trefoil, fold their leaves on the exclusion of light.
The evening primrose shuts its blossom at sunset, while
that minion of the moon, the night-blowing cactus, then
only begins to bloom ; perhaps like the owl, and goat-
sucker, and bat, who find the sun too powerful an
excitant. ·
Vegetables may be put asleep by the withdrawal of
proper stimulus,-the exclusion of this light. But this
is a law of nature, and ordained for a special purpose.
It is chiefly during fructification; the leaves at night
folding round the flowers and seed-vessels, to protect
them from the chilling blight of the night cold, which
would congeal their juices. In this condition of the
plant its irritability ceases, but the circulation of its sap-
vessels is not suspended. Its vitality continues, but if
the exercis~ of its peculiar phenomena be long discon-
tinued, it will fade and die. Now the vis insita of the
muscle resembles vegetable irritability; and, as this is
lost and sensibility suspended, the body is indeed in a
condition of vegetable sleep ; for vegetables have not
of course sensation, although the Darwinian romance
would endow the diontea, the hedysarum, and the mi-
mosa with sensibility, and all the blossom-beauties of
Flora with the fervour of sexual passion. Trance then
is caused by the removal of a stimulus. As somnambu-
lism may result from a redundancy of nervous energy,
trance and catalepsy, as well as incubus, seem to arise
from an inefficient secretion or supply of this quality, in
whatever it may consist, or an impediment to its trans-
A~D ITS SY!\'O~Y~fES.
mission from the sensm·ium or brain to the expansion of
a nerve. Thus the motive power of a muscle is in these
diseases suspended, which inparalysis may bepermanently
impuired or destroyed.
To describe this state, I must abound in negatives.
The brain is not conscious : there is no sensation. Even
the marrow by its reflex faculty does not excite a muscle:
there is no action : the mind has no cognizance : the
body is for a time paralyzed. \Vhat is there then which
may be termed life ? merely involuntary circulation and
gentle breathing. In this condition also there is a con-
gestion of dark blood about the brain and in the right
side of the heart ; the circulation being reduced to an
extreme lentor or sluggishness, while in real aspltyxia
there is a total stagnation.
I have done with minute pathology : as there are
however two diseases, epilepsy and insanity, which may
be the result of catalepsy, I may offer a precept on the
point. The propensity to trance cannot suddenly be
averted, but the state of the body and mind arc impor-
ta~t studies for our treatment. ~felancholy and apathy
are the features of the mind of the cataleptic, and
languor and faulty secretions the symptoms of the body.
Cheerful society, sympathy with suffering, but finnness
in resisting sloth and erroneous fancies, and the direc-
tion of the patient's mind to moral recreations, compre-
hend the sum of our mental treatment.
It is equally essential to ensure regulation of the
secretions, especially those of the liver. \Ve should
employ cupping from the nape of the neck, if there be
pain, or heat, or fulness of the head, and constant but
gentle exercise. The head should not be low during
sleep, nor should food be taken within two hours of
retiring to rest. I believe obedience to these slight
precepts will frequently mitigate, perhaps in the .end
avert the attacks, especially if they have arisen from
nd2
404 ANALYSIS OF TRANCE AND ITS SYNONYMES.
diseased conditions of the body, or gloomy or depraved
studies, and deep contemplation.
The most simple or unconnected form of catalepsy, is
that most likely to end in madness. Perhaps, too, in
deep and gloomy subjects, which begin by absorbi1,1g
mind and sense, the end is thus ; so that cataleptic
abstraction is but the reverie or foretaste of mania.
As to suspected cases of still existing vitality: where
there is plethora, I would employ bleeding, or cupping,
insu.fllation, Galvanism; and I should not in extreme
cases fear acupuncture of the heart, and galvanic shocks
then transmitted through the needle. Bedard, in "La
Pitie," in Paris, allows the needle to remain three or
four minutes and then withdraws it, and I have learned
from my oriental friends, that the Chinese practice this
mode extensively.
MESMERISM.
" Thus smiling, as some fly had tickled slumber,
Not as Death's dart, being laugh'd at."
" By some illusion see thou bring her here,
I'll charm his eyes against she doth appear."
•• Such tricks hath strong imagination."
11!InsuJUIE.R NIGHT's DaE.UI .
InA. You ~re very fonnidable creatures, Evelyn, if you
can touch and wound the heart of a sensitive girl so
easily; we must be wary, dear Castaly. It must be a
desperate case that justifies so desperate a remedy ; yet,
with all this danger, the magi of our day will, as I have
heard, induce by their art this very state of trance.
AsTR. ~1agnetic sleep. If the phenomena of this
animal magnetism be not a mystery, it is at least a curi-
osity. And yet Evelyn will tell us that they, too, obey
the common laws of our nature. I believe, however,
there are stories of most strange and novel interest, be-
yond the scope even of his philosophy.
Ev. The hand of a magnetiser seerns, I confess, to
effect a wonder; but your challenge will be fatal to you,
Astrophel. In this same question of animal mUoonetism
we may discover the spring of all your mysteries. The
close a·nalogies between the natural and imparted phe-
406 :\IES:\IERIS:\1.
nomena oftrance and magnetic sleep and somnambulism,
and somnambulic blindness, and magnetic ecstacy; even
the frauds of lucid ·vision and clairvoyance, and the
vaunted gift of prophetic divination, with the explana-
tion of some, and the refutation of others, will dispel the
most subtle arguments in proof of divine influence ;
seeing that the process is conducted by men of mortal
mould, who claim no merit even for the possession of
occult learning.
CAsT. l\fercy, dearest Evelyn, mercy. No more phi-
losophy to-night. The smile of. yon planet Venus,
that was twinkling from out its cerulean blue, is veiled
in a cloud; for our cold discourse is treason to its in-
fluence. Be ready with your stories, Astrophel.
Ev. The history of Mesmerism is a romance in itself,
dear Castaly. If I invade not the province ofAstrophel,
I will, as some apology for my dull prosing, sketcJI its
progress by way of episode.
You must know, then, that it was l\faximilian Holl
who first, from the influence of his magnets on the
body, imparted the practical idea of animal magnetism
to ~Iesmer, who had already written his inaugural
thesis, at Vienna, on " Planetary Influence," and had
laid down this unblushing aphorism: "There is one
health, one disease, one. remedy, and one physician, and
that physician am I." His immediate proselytes were
Deslon at Paris, and Gmelin at Heilbronne, and Reicke
at Stutgard, and Kluge at Berlin. Encouraged by the
Swedenborgian tenets, this magi.c brought immense re-
venue into the purses of l\Iainanduc in England, and
the rest of its revivers; so that one. hundred guineas
were given for a course of lectures and e:\.."}leriments,
and fifteen guineas for a consultation and the imparting
of its influence. ,
In after times l\fiss Prescott, among others, gained
great fame in the art:. but De Lauterb01~rg was.one of
liESl\1 EH.ISl\1. 407
its most popular professors. Three thousand patients,
it is said, were often waiting for the magnetic influence
about his house at Hammersmith.
In 1784 an ordonnance of the French king confirmed
Mesmer in his working of these apparent miracles. By
tractions on the body, either v.-ith the hand or by sub-
stances magnetized with his "imponderable fluid," by
champooing, and the accompaniment of sweet music, a
state of enchantment of the senses was induced. Con-
vulsions and mania were often excited in the " Hall of
Crisis," which was lined by soft cushions to protect
the convulsionaries. These paroxysms and tempests of
the brain l\Iesmer seemed to control, like a second
Prospero, with his wand of enchantment, gliding, in
robes of silk, among the multitude of devotees, whom
novelty and voluptuousness had attracted to his shrine.
To study and report on these mysteries. commissioners
were appointed by the " Faculty of Medicine," by the
"Academy of Sciences," and by the "Royal Society of
Medicine." These savans referred all to the influence
of imagination, or or" emotion in sensitive systems ; and
that there must be this sensitive predisposition is often
proved, for idiots, and those who have been blindfold,
and unconscious children, re'TIJ,ain uninfluenced, although
it is declared by one that he 'magnetized an idiot baby!
I must observe, that before the commissions in
Paris, especially that' of "~hich Franklin was a member,
not the slightest influence was observed; and the ex-
periments of l\1onsieur Ben1er, who was the chief mani-
pulator, were a perfect failure, especially in regard to
the clairvoyance.
Astrophel reminds me by his frown--
AsTR. That magnetic power is not granted to all ;
that all possess not the essential qualities of mind- and
body. It was affirmed that the operator must have his
mind abstracted, and teeming with affection and bene-
6
408 ~lES:\lEltlS:\1.
volence towards his patients; must believe himselfa very
magnet, and feel a desire of benefiting mankind. Thus a
sympathy, or incorporation of atmospheres, was induced,
by which disease was influenced; and even in persons
distant from each other, by an intensity of thought the
patient tasted, smelt, or heard, the flavours, odours, or
sounds which at that moment affected the senses of tlie
operator. The magnetizer must thus be confident that,
by his will, he can pass his whole nervous energy into his
patient. It is essential, also, that the mind of thepatient
should have a corresponding willingness to be mag-
netized.
Ev. And this congenial platonism is sometimes so
intense, that offers of magnetic marriage are made by
the ecstatic ladies to their magnetizers, even though it
may not be leap-year, on the plea that the loneliness of
magnetic widowhood distressed them, and that the _pos-
session of a sleeping partner was better than sleeping
alone.
Under this interesting disposition for magnetic union,
the eyes of the maiden being fixed on the magnetizer
intensely, his hands were passed before her body, his
fingers thus forming natural conductors, by which the
magnetic fluid was conveyed from the positive to the
negative magnetic body. Then came the wonders of
this influence. The patient was warmed by the bene-
volence of the magnetizer, who felt an aura or tingling
in the part corresponding to any painful part of the
patient's body which was relieved or cured. Indeed,
Bertrand assures us that many told him they saw a blue
fluid streaming from his fingers vlhen he magnetized
them.
The secret of this is closely analogous to the effect of
brooding over sorrow : the mind of the patient is con-
centrated on the spot to which the passes are directed;
and, as we know that disease can be excited thus by
MES:\IERIS!\1. ·109
imagination (especially in the hYJJOchondriac), so it is a
truth that this concentration may remove disease and
pain, especially by the superaddition of faith.
AsTR. But the magnetizer, as they said, was not
always in a state to operate, and required a certain
training. So it was observed that Casper Hauser's cat
did not follow him after he had eaten meat ; his mag-
netic and somnambulant qualities were destroyed by
animal food, although they were so abundant in his
wilder state,-as his history will thus illustrate to those
who believe it:
" As I came into the room, and the door of the de-
ceased person was opened, which. I did not know, I felt
a sudden dragging on both sides of my breast, as if any
one wished to pull me into the room. As I went on
and proceeded towards the sick person, a very strong
breath blew on me from behind, and the pulling which
I felt before in I?Y breast I now felt in my shoulders.
I went towards the window; the sick person followed
me. At the time that I wished to ask a question of
l\1r. Von Gutter, I felt a trembling in my left foot, and
~
it became unwell. She went back again, and that trem-
bling left me. She seated herself under the canopy and
said, ' Will not the gentleman sit down ?' Hereupon
Mr. Professor Hensler said to her, she should see me.
So as she drew nigh to me, within two or three steps, I
was still more unwell than before, and I felt pains in
all my limbs. Mr. Professor Hensler told her that I
was the man who had been wounded (that is, by the
attempt which had been made to assassinate him); at
the same time she noticed my scar, and pointed towards
it; then came the air strong upon my forehead, and I
felt pain in it, also my left foot began to tremble
greatly. The sick person seated herself under- the
canopy, and said that she was ill ; and I also said that
I was so unwell that I must sit down. I sat down in
410 liES~IERIS~I.
the other room : now the other foot began to twitter.
Although ~fr. Von Gutter held my knees, I could not
keep them still. Now a violent beating of my heart
came on me, and there was a heat in all my body : that
beating of the heart left me afterwards; and I had a
twittering in my left arm, which ceased after some
minutes, and I was again somethiJJ.g better. This con-
dition lasted until the next morning, then.I had a head-
ache again and a twittering in all my limbs, still not so
violent. In the afternoon, about three o'clock, it came
again something less, and left me earlier ; then I was
quite well again."
" The Somnambulist was greatly affected by the pre-
sence of Hauser. I heard that, afterwards, when she
was asleep, she had said these words,-' That was a
hard struggle for me.' She felt indisposition from this
process even on the next day."
Ev. The first sensation from magnetism is usually
that of slight vertigo,-a state of musing or reverie suc-
ceeding, the mind being lulled into abstraction, as it is
by the rippling of water, the busy hum of bees, or the
murmuring of the ./Eolian-harp. I would explain this
feeling by·the term, conj~Mion of the senses ; for a cer-
tain period must elapse ere an external object make an
impression on the mind. "\Vhen, therefore, objects or
sounds become extremely rapid, the perception is con-
fused, and the mind, left as it were to itself, cannot fol-
low the impressions so as to associate them, and thus
the m~onetic ecstacy ensues.
AsTR. But ~Ionsieur de Paysegur, who first excited
magnetic somnambulism, magnetized trees and ropes, by
which he converted those who clung to them into sleep-
walkers. Dr. Elliotson, also, mesmerized a sot·erd.gn,
by merely looking on it; and a girl, who intuitively se-
lected it from a heap of others, was instantly struck with
coma.
MJ.~SMERISM. 411
Ev. The last is a very frail experiment. Paysegur
oft~n failed in his illustrations, and then the cunning
juggler explained this, by affirming that the trees
counter-mUoonetized each other. Now, whatever may
be the influence imparted by this traction, the pheno-
mena of excited somnambulism are similar precisely to
those spontaneously occurring. :Magnetic sleep, or
ecstasis, is its precursor ; and there is a total uncon-
sciousness of it when awake. Here is one of those
close analogies that are the most potent arguments on
which the question of magnetism rests. For, in all the
states alluded to, the interval of ecstacy is a blank. And,
as in the cases of intense alarm, as you remember, the
mesmeric ecstacy will cause a sensitive girl to forget the
present, while the scenes of youth and infancy pass
vividly before her memory.
Now the effects of the passes of magnetism are re-
ferred to six degrees,-the chief conditions being those
of sleep, somnambulism, and clairvoyance. The essence
of ·the last, it seem~, is combined with a blending of
one's own feeling and nature with those of others ;-a
reuniting, in fact, of body and soul once separated from
that individual whole, which some philosophers, as
Hecker, believed the whole human race to be. You
observe my fidelity, Astrophel.
It must be confessed, that some of the experiments
at which I have myself assisted exhibit very strange
results. In some, there is the propensity to chatter
nonsense,-a system of one form of hysteria, of which
the analogy is perfect. One little jade created much
amusement, by inserting supernumerary syllables, thus
-opporwaytuniwhatsty.
rrhe insensibility of the nostril to the most powerful
ammonia is a very imposing fact; one which must strike
us more than that of insensibility of the eye to light, or
the ear to sound. For the faculty of perception may
412 l1ESMERIS.M.
be often suspended in either of those organs of sense,
if attention be powerfully diverted to another point, or,
as it is by the abstraction of magnetic ecstacy, not
directed to any.
So that I do not wonder when thoughtless proselytes
believe these effects to be miraculous, or credit the as-
sertions of Pereaud, in his "Antidcemon of Mascon~"
that,-" The devil causeth wi~ches to fall into ecstacies,
so that a man would say their souls were out of their
body." Or those of Bodin, in his " Theatre of Uni-
versal Nature," that "those that ·are rapt of the devil
feel neither stripes nor cuttings."
So that the honour of the magnetic monomania must
at last be conceded to the fallen angel.
InA. And are all these wonders worked only to excite
curiosity?
AsTR. I believe there is some good in it. Is it not
certain, that during this state ·of magnetic sleep, opera-
tions have been performed without creating pain? The
lady on whom Mons. Chopelain operated, talked coolly
and unconsciously during its performance. And Jules
Cloquet, in Paris, amputated the breast of a lady who
had been put into an ecstacy or state of apathetic trance
by a mesmerizer.
Ev. It is, I believe, quite true that she was perfectly
unconscious of the operation. But even this is not
safe. Pain is given us as a warning against extreme
injury ; that by our complaint or suffering, the sur-
geon's mind may be on its guard. For the body is so
far in disorder when it is chilled by this apathetic spell,
that it may sink under fatal injuries, although they may
be endured by the mind unconscious of its peril or its
state. As a very curious antitype to these cases, it is
stated in a medical gazette, that a young lady fell down
in an hysterical fit and was insensible for two days. As
a puffy swelling arose, she was trephined, but there
liESliERISlf. 413
was no disease of the brain. In two days after this, she
awoke and expressed all the steps of the operation, of
which she had been painlessly sensible.
AsTR. And in this state of ecstasis, is there not
strange havoc played with the senses, by their seeming
displacement or transference ?
The philosophers will tell us that the ganglia in
the abdomen become as it were little brains, and the
plexusses and the nerves of the skin become, like those
of the senses, capable of imparting the idea of visible
objects to those ganglia and of rendering a slight whis-
per distinctly audible. This is all very fine, and very
material; but this straining at explanation is itself a
proof of mystery. Van Ghestrecords the case of ~Iade­
moiselle B--, a young lady who was magnetized : she
assured him that while she was intently looked upon,
she felt her eyes and brain leave her head, and become
fixed in her stomach, in which situation she saw acutely;
but if she was in tne slightest degree disturbed, the
eyes and their sense seemed to return to her head.
The stories recorded in the book ofthe Rev. Chauncey
Townsend are not less curious than this.
Ev. Although I take the metaphysics of a divine with
reservation, his facts may not be doubted. For there
are other powerful impressions that will produce pheno-
mena as curious. The arm of a young man in the
"Ospidale della Vitta," at Bologna, in 1832, was grasped
by a convulsive patient. Violent spasms succeeded,
and he lost the senses of taste, smell, and sensibility of
the skin, but he could hear if the voice was applied on
the stomach ; and could, at that spot, discriminate be-
tween different substances.
Another patient in the same hospital was subject
every third day to violent convulsions, during the con-
tinuance of which, he lost entirely the use of all his
senses, and could neither hear, sec, nor smell. His
414 )l ESM ERIS:\1.
hands also became so firmly clenched, that it would be
impossible to open them without breaking the fingers.
Nevertheless, Dr. Ciri, the physician under whose
charge he was placed, discovered that the epigastric re-
gion, at about two fingers breadth above the navel,
received all the impressions of the senses, so as to
replace them completely. If the patient was spoken to
whilst the finger was placed on this spot, he gave an-
swers,· and even, when desired, opened his hands of his
own accord. If any substance or matter was placed
there, he could describe its form ~d quality, its colour
and smell. As long as the finger was kept on the
stomach, the convulsion gradually diminished until it
entirely disappeared; but if the finger were placed on
the heart, the convulsion returned with increased vio-
lence, and continued as long as the finger was kept in
that position. If a flute was played while the finger
was kept on the stomach, the patient heard the music;
but if the finger was taken away, and placed on the
heart, and then taken back again to its former position,
the man asked why they played by intervals; yet the
flute had never ceased. These experiments were all
made in the presence of the professors and students of
the hospital.
I will not counsel you, Astrophel, as to the extent of
your belief in these strange tales, but extreme exaggera-
tion often lessens the interest which scientific minds
would take in these curiosities.
These pictures are correct in their outline, but the
artists have not spared their colours. They will remind
us, who are learned in legends, of that illusive mono-
mania among the monks of ~fount Athas, who believed
that they could at pleasure attain a celestial vision by
communing devoutly with the Deity, while their atten-
tion or their sight were directed to the umbilicus! And
they were therefore called " Omphalopsychians." \Ve
MESMERlS~f. 415
discover also very close analogies to this mcntnl con-
centration, in the acuteness with which one sense is
endowed on the failure of anot!ter. ,.rhe delicacy of
touch in the blind is often extreme; I knew a blind
lady who played an excellent rubber, passing her finger
lightly over the card spots; and more curious still arc
the cases of Miss M'Avoy, of Stanley the organist, and
of Professor Saunderson. De Luc tells us of a lady,
who read distinctly by passing her fingers over the
page, even of a strange book. In Laura Bridgman, an
American girl, an inmate of the Institution of Boston
since 1837, the wltole faculty of perception was concen-
trated in the one sense of touch. At the age of two,
sight, and hearing, and smelling, and almost taste, de-
serted her. To this interesting creature, through the
acuteness of her sense oftouch in tracing letters, has been
imparted so much knowledge, that the moral sentiments
and the congenial affections of the heart are now beauti-
fully displayed in .her "~haracter. If by the dumb al-
phabet, or finger-talking, conversation is commenced
with her, she follows the fingers with her arm with
extreme rapidity, so that scarce a letter escapes her.
Such are the wonders of this child's intelligence, that
her mind has been cited as illustrative of innate senti-
ment ; but the very facility is enough to explain her
actions.
Le Cat writes of a blind sculptor at Voltera, who
modelled features most faithfully by the touch.
A French gentleman lost the integrity of every sense,
but sensation remained in half of his face, on which he
received the correspondence of his friends by their
tracing on it letters or forms.
In l\ir. Eschkc's establishment at Berlin, conversation
was carried on by tracing letters on the clothes of tlte
back.
A Bolognese, on witnessing a woman in acute hysteria,
416 :\IES:\IERIS:\1.
became occasionally convulsed, and impenetrably deaf;
if, however, the slightest whisper was breathed to the
pit of the stomach, he heard distinctly.
From Andral's Lectures, to please you, Astrophel, I
will select this fragment:
" I saw yesterday a young lady who has been fre-
quently magnetized, and who, on my visit, presented
some very remarkable circumstances. After a fit of in-
digestion she fell into the ecstatic state, in which she
continued when I saw her. Her skin was perfectly in-
sensible, and her eyes were open like animals' in whom
the fifth pair of nerves has been divided. She could
perceive light, knew the difference between day and
night for instance, but she could see and distinguish
nothing else. She could not speak, but by signs ex-
pressed that her intellect was unusually active. But
the most remarkable of the phenomena she presented
was a singular exaltation of the sense of hearing: So
extraordinarily delicate had thi.s become, that she dis-
tinctly perceived sounds inaudible to myself and several
other persons."
Carns, unmindful of the existence of a state of ab-
stract reverie resembling sleep, records the case of a
young ecclesiastic, who composed sermons in a state of
slumber, correcting and adding to them with peculiar
care. And this is the deduction : that the sense of
vision seemed to be transferred to the fingers, as the eyes
were perfectly blinded to the writing paper. His eyes,
when he sat for his portrait, should have been painted
at the tips of his fingers.
James l\1itchell, congenitally deaf and blind, discri-
minated his friends from strangers, and even formed a
fair estimate of character, by the smell of the pa..~ies.
And there was a·deaf woman (writes Le Cat) who could
read, and even tell the difference of languages, from the
silent motion of the lip.
:\1 F.S~I EUISlf. 4li
From these very curious illustrations we may confess
that these lines in Hudibras nrc no fiction:
- " Communities of S('nses
To chop and change intelligences,
As Rosicrucian virtuosi.s
Can see with ears and hear with noseR."
For so strange are the synonymcs of the senses, that
the blind will express their notion of colaur by sound;
the tint of scarlet is like the sound of a trumpet. From
this hint, probably, St. Amand, in the " Pilgrims of the
Rhine," speaks of a visible music.
InA. Do we not perceive, also, something of this
acuteness in the sense of touch under certain other con-
ditions? In the story of Caspar Hauser, whether it be
romance or reality, we read the following illustration of
the effect of mineral traction :
" Once, when tlie physician, Dr. Osterhausen, and
the, royal crown fiscal, Brunner, from Munich, hap-
pened to be present, Daumer led Caspar, in order to
try him, to a table covered with an oil cloth, upon which
lay a sheet of paper, and desired him to say whether
any metal was under it. He moved his finger over it,
and then said, ' There it draws.' 'But this time,' replied
Daumer, ' you are nevertheless mistaken, for,' with-
drawing the paper, 'nothing lies under it.' Caspar
seemed at first to be somewhat embarrassed, but he put
his finger again to the place where he thought he had
felt the drawing, and assured them repeatedly that he
there felt a drawing. The oil cloth was then removed,
a stricter search was made, and a needle was actually
found there."
Caspar Hauser might have felt this, or a cunning
youth might have palmed on us his idea for a truth.
Yct I confess Parkinson also relates the case of a
Ee
,~ I& CLAIRVOYANCE.
woman who fainted on the touch of a stethoscope, ex-
claiming that it was "dralL-ing her too strongly."
CAST. And of clairvoyance. Have you no incidents,
Astrophel?
AsTR. :Many. Listen to the follmYing fragments.
One from Andral's Lectures:
"~1. Feruss was present at the experiment. .A watch
was held behind the individual's head. 'I see/ said he,
' something that shines.' ''Vhat is it?' 'A watch.' He
was asked the hour, and replied exactly. Two different
watches were tried. He was e_qually precise. The
watches were taken out of the room, and the hands
altered. He still told the hours and minutes expressed
on the dials."
Another from an English newspaper, in 1833:
"~fr. Barnaby ('twas at Bow-street) took his watch
from his pocket, and said, 'What have I got in my
hand?' 'A watch,' was the reply.-' 'Yhat is it ·made
of?' 'Gold.'-' 'Vhat chain is attached to it?' 'None
at all,' said the boy: 'there i~ a riband to it.'-' Can
you t~ll at what hour the hand stands?' 'Yes, at
twelve.' ~fr. B. showed his watch, and the hands were
at twelve .precisely. ~Ir. B. then produced his purse
from his pocket, and asked the boy the colour of it, and
what it contained, and his answers were, without having
the least opportunity of turning round towards the
bench, that one end of the purse was brown, and
the other yellow, and that the brown end contained
sovereigns, and the yellow end silver. ~fr. B. admitted
the correctness of the description, and, taking some
silver from his pocket, asked the boy to describe the
different pieces. ''Vhat is this ?' ' Sixpence,' said the
boy, 'and of the date 1819.'-''Vhat is the next?' 'A
shilling, and dated 1816,' was the reply. And when
the clerk brought forth another coin, and asked simi-
lar questions, the boy said, 'That is a ~ixpence of the
liAG~ETIC ECSTACY. 119
date of 1817 ;' and all these guesses proved to be cor-
rect."
Townsend and lVood, at Antwerp and Paris, pro-
duced this second sight in seve~al instances. E. A.,
with eyes bandaged, read two hundred pages of print,
and even written music.
Ev. A little more sifting of these cases, Astrophel,
and they would resemble that of the cataleptic female
of Amiens, related by Petelin; who also professed to
tell the spots of a card, unseen by her. But it was dis-
covered that the physician glided it beneath tlte bed-
clothes. Or that told by Bertrand, of another ec.Ytatic
female :-" 'Vhile lying ·entranced in a chamber illumi-
nated by a candle, her ring was removed from her finger
by Monsieur Bertrand, and given to a person standing
near ):lim. She was asked who had her ring,-' l\fr.
Eyre has it in his trowsers pocket.' l\fr. Bertrand ex-
claimed that she wa~ wrong, for it was not to Mr. Eyre
the ring was given. The lady persisted in her state-
ment, and, on immediate inquiry, it was found that the
person who first was given the ring had secretly con-
veyed it to l\1r. Eyre."
The pages of history are not deficient in these pre-
tensions to miracle. From Ulrick Zwingle we learn
that Thomas Aquinas, the evangelical doctor, professed,
by intense thought, to throw himself into ecstacy; in
which, strange visions and mysteries of another exist-
ence passed before him.
Matthew Paris writes of a monk of Evesham, and of
a certain Sir Owen, that, in one of these ecstacies, was
favoured with an introduction into Saint Patrick's pur-
gatory. So the mad visionary, Jacob Brehm, fell into
many strange trances, and at last were revealed to him,
-" The origin of nature ; the formation of all things ;
and even divine principles and intelligent natures !"
But the case of Santa Theresa, if we can but believe
Ee2
420 liAG:SETIC ECSTACY.
the testimony of so accomplished an hypocrite, presents
phenomena far more remarkable than all these. " Her
frame was naturally delicate, her imagination lively, and
her mind, incapable of being fixed by trivial objects,
turned with avidity to those which religion offered, the
moment they were presented to her view. But, unfor-
tunately, meeting with the writings of Saint Jerome,
she became enamoured of the monastic life, and, quit-
ting the line for which nature designed her, she re-
nounced the most endearing ties, and bound herself by
the irrevocable vow. Deep melancholy then seized on
her, and increased to such a degree, that for many days
she lay both motionless and senseless, like one who is
in a trance. Her tender frame, thus shaken, prepared
her for ecstacies and visions, such as it might appear
invidious to repeat, were they not related by herselfand
by her greatest admirers. She tells us that, in the
fervour of her devotion, she not only became insensible
to every thing around her, but ~hat her body was often
lifted ~p from the earth, although she endeavoured to
resist the motion. And Bishop Yessen relates in parti-
cular, that, when she was going to receive the Eucharist
at Avila, she was raised in a rapture higher than the
grate, through which, as is usual in nunneries, it was
presented to her. She often heard the voice· of God,
when she was recovered from a trance; but sometimes
the devil, by imitation, endeavoured to deceive her, yet
she was always able to detect the fraud."
So that Theresa's life was an elysium on earth, and
she might well have cried out in her ecstacy,-
" - - - sic sine vita,
Vivere quam suave est, sic sine morte mori."
Yet the modern proselytes to l\1esmerism would
scarcely believe this a fiction, but an illustration of that
lucid vision which may, it is believed, b~ so highly ex-
~L\G~ETIC ECS1'ACY. 421
cited, as to associate the being with universal nature : a
creed grounded on the expansion or illimitable nature
of thought or mind, by which it seems to leave the
body, carrying with it its consciousness.
So the disciples of 11esmer asserted, that, when they
thought or spoke warmly of absent persons, they would
both appear in their eidolon ; and also that they were,
at that exact time, speaking or thinking of them. This
was Shelley's conviction, that minds sympathetically im-
parted ideas and thoughts,-particles, indeed, of the
"mens divinior." So that they might well see in the
dark.
Brown would be in a flood of joy to hear the affirma-
tions of these ecstatics, whose spirits, as they believe and
avow, arc for the time released from the chains of mor-
truity. ""\Vhy," exclaimed one of these half-spiritual-
ized creatures,-" Why do you bring me again to life?
"\Vould you depart from me, my body would grow cold,
my soul would not return to it, and I should be
happy."
AsTR. You are fond of caricature, Evelyn. I speak
of sober truths only. I am told that the powers of
acquirement may be so increased by magnetism, as to
resemble new faculties. A lady, during a sort of ecstacy,
sung most scientifically church music; although, when
awake, she entirely failed, and had forgotten all. And
others will speak languages and sentiments, of which
they are perfectly unconscious when awake.
There was a girl in the vicinity of Bedford Row, of
whose case there are related similar wonders of this
magnetically-imparted accomplishment; and her beauty
was so enchanting, as to transcend the brightest visions
of 1\tlichael Angelo or Correggio.
Ev. Like that of the inspired somnambule, of whom
"\Volfart thus writes in his ".Annals :" "An evil spirit
ushered in her somnambulic sleep, and then a good
422 :\IAG~E'rlC l~TUlTlO~.
spirit spread its wings around her; and when they had
conversed, he flew with her to the Eternal City, through
the sun and the moon; and while there, tranced scenes
were around her, and her spirit was enjoying her beati-
tude : her face was like the face of a seraph, and no
mortal painter might essay to trace its beauty." So say
those who saw this mystery.
AsTR. Yet, as to the prophetic power imparted by
magnetism,--cases are recorded by our enthusiastic
proselytes, which throw the spells of the conjuror into
an eclipse-
Ev. And therefore forbid belief.-
AsTR. -Even those displayed before our learned
bodies. ~fadame Celini Sauvage, you remember, in the
presence of the committee, in Paris, was placed in som-
nambulism. Even while insensible to stimuli she formed,
it is recorded, a correct judgment of the diseases of per-
sons around her, especially in the person of ~I. ~fare,
one of the committee; and in ~hat of a young lady, on
whom fii. Dupuytren had operated for dropsy, and had
tried the effects of the milk of a goat which had been
anointed ·with mercury. fifadame, unconscious of this,
prescribed .the very same remedy. You remember the
report, Evelyn.
Ev. I remember, but believe it not.
CAsT. And is it thus with all our legends? have you
no more faith in your own order? There is the learned
physician, Justin Kerner. You have not forgotten, As-
trophel, his beautiful story of that most accomplished
somnambule, the Prophetess of Prevorst, who seemed,
as she said, to draw from the air a living principle, and
whose very vitality, it was believed, was preserved by the
m3.oonetic influence. The body of this ethereal creature
enfolded her spirit like a veil of film,-she was a ven~
flower of light living on sun-beams. Her senses wer~
lighted up by the minutest atom. A we,b of gossamer
FALI.ACY OF MES!\IEIUS!\1. 423
stung her waxen skin like a nettle. At the pale green
light of a glow-worm, she fell into ecstatic sleep; and
then, (as to my own Tasso,) came_ to her spectral visit-
ants, with whom she conversed, and whose colourless
forms were visible even to her earthly companions.
Tlus fair creature had, as the story goes, been some
time dead, when her mother made passes over her cold
face and lips ; and lo ! her eyes·opened, and a tremor
was on her lip. vVere I Astrophel, methinks I would
make a pilgrimage to Lowenstein, where her body lies.
And now, Evelyn, if you will, reprove me for my wild-
ness, but confess there must be a sort of truth in
legends so circumstantial as these.
Ev. A fair question, dearest Castaly. Yes, it is the
crude or false interpretation of that sort of truth, a tran-
sient glimpse it may be, of some embryo principle, that
leads to popular error. A baseless theory is raised on
an isolated fact; and infantile science, bursting from its
leading-strings ere it can crawl, topples headlong down
the precipice, and splits on the rock of hypothetical
presumption.
And then the confusion into which the mind is thrown
by the definitions and conclusions of magnetizers, would
make a very Babel of the fair field of philosophy. The
least perplexing, perhaps, is that of the French savans
who referred magnetism to the efforts of a fluid matter
consisting of fire, air, and spirit, to presen·e its equi-
librium in certain bodies which were, as to their capa•
city for this fluid, in a state of plus and minus. 'fhere
is nothing very unphilosophical in this; for the essence
of magnetism is somewhat analogous to eccentric de-
rangement of mind, a disturbance of that order or sym-
metry among the faculties and actions, by whlch one is
highly excited and another is comparatively passive.
In a word, :Mesmerism is true in part : it may induce
catalepsy, somnambulism, exalted sensation, apathetic
424 ANALYSIS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
insensibility, suspended circulation, even death. Clair-
voyance and prophecy alone are the impositions as
regards its effects, as the "blue flame" at the finger tips
is of its nature.
One folly more. Mesmer himselfvaunted to Dr. Von
Ellikon, "twenty years ago I magnetized the sun;" &c.
so that the miracle of Joshua was but a stroke of mag-
netism. Indeed, Richter, rector of the School of Dessau,
affirms that all the miracles of the Testament were but
the sequences of magnetic passes. And Kieser refers
all to a "telluric spirit," a sort of magic, of which the
sun and moon are the grand reservoirs ; nay, this in-
fluence is the real cause of sleep and waking.
InA. So that we are mesmerized by the moon at
night-fall, and unmesmerized by the sun at the opening
ofthe dawn.
Ev. Then there were some aphorisms of 'Vo_lfart
about fiddling to the viscera with his magnetic medicine,
and working them up, as it were, to a jig or a bolero.
These are the visions of a madman. But surely the
illusion regarding this mysterious fluid is confessed in
Dupotet's own notion of his own wondrous faculty,
when he asserts his belief that animal magnetism is
analogous to the royal touch, and the mysteries of
Apollo, and JEsculapius, and Isis, the miracles of Ves-
pasian, and the Sibylline prophecies.
AsTR. You sneer at this as you did at the blue flame ;
but Dupotet assures us that while he is magnetizing his
patients, he feels a sensation at the points of his fingers
resembling the aura from diffused electricity. Now is
it not fair to ask if electro-magnetism may not reside in
the animal as well as in the mineral, in man as well as
in the torpedo and gymnotus. And why may there not
be a condition of intercommunication or en rapport, a
magnetic aura creeping through the nerves of each
body?
ANALYSIS 01-' ANI.:\fAL MAGNETISll. 4 25
'Ve should not, therefore, make any hasty decision
against the presence of an aura streaming from the
fingers and directed by the will. ~Ionsieur Delcuzc
said, in Paris, " I do not know if this be material or
spiritual, nor to what distance it is impelled; but it u
impelled and directed by my will, for if I cease to will,
the influence instantly ceases."
I remember Priestly opined that phlogiston in our
bodies produced electricity, which was destined for our
own purposes merely. But as the silurus and the tor-
pedo possess the power of imparting theirs, although at
the expense of their animal power, I presume to think
that concentrated mind may impart our own ncn'ous
influence to others.
Ev. I admire the acuteness of your question, Astro-
phel ; but you are now come down from your clouds ;
you are descending unawares to physiology. There arc,
doubtless, many peculiar states of the nervous system
at present inexplicable. I grant it is possible that the
influence of the nervous energy may become so eccentric
as to illustrate the phenomena of magnetism, if, as some
believe, this influence depends on a subtle fluid ana-
logous to light, heat, and electricity; the nen'e convey-
ing this fluid as the wire conducts the electric.
Thus an influence, which is apparently physical, may
be, in reality, mental, for there is usually conscioU8ness
of the contact. l\L Bertrand believed that the mind
alone of the patient was acted on, and this is strenf,l'ih-
ened by the experiments of the Abbe Faria, who pro-
duced many of these phenomena by merely exclaiming
to his sensitive visitors, "Dormez."
AsTR. 'Vell, you are drawing the influences of mind
and body very closely together, Evelyn. If animal
magnetism be not the universal influence of sensitive
beings, what is personal sympathy ?
Ev. It is not that mysterious freemasonry of the
426 AXALYSlS 01'' AXIMAL )IAGNETIS:\1.
senses which may impart a superhuman knowledge, or
confer a power of personal recognition. Yet we are
required to believe such stories.
AsTR. And are there not many well attested? There
was a ~Ionsieur de la Tour Landrie, a nobleman nf
France, who so powerfully influenced a young shoe-
maker by whom he was measured, that the youth fell
into a senseless syncope, and profuse hremorrhage suc-
ceeded it. This influence was repeated, and excited so
deep an interest in the mind of the noble, that he in-
stituted an inquiry regarding his. birth and fortunes.
And the result was, that l\fonsieur de la Tour discovered
in the humble mechanic the son of his sister, the Baronne
de Vesines.
The thrill of feeling with which the lover touches the
lip of his mistress, the intense delight with which the
mother presses her infant to her bosom, are illustrations
of that power to which I allude. It is the mag~etic
touch of beauty which sends th.e fires of passion not
only through the bounding heart of youth, but even
through the icy veins of the stoic. " He that would
preserve the liberty of his soul," said Socrates, " must
abstain from· kissing handsome people." "'Vhat, then,"
said Charmides, "must I be afraid of coming near a
handsome woman ? Nevertheless, I remember very
well, and I believe you do so too, Socrates, that being
one day in company with Critobulus's beautiful sister,
who resembles him so much, as we were searching
together for a passage in some author, you held your
head close to that beautiful virgin, and I thought you
seemed to take pleasure in touching her naked shoulder
with yours." "Good God!" replied Socrates, "I will
tell you truly how I was punished for it for five days
after. I thought I felt in my shoulder a certain tickling
pain as if I had been bit by gnats, or pricked with
nettles; and I must confess, too, that du,ring all that
AN~\I~YSIS 01<' ANHIAI.. ~lAGNE'l'IS}I. 427
time I felt a certain hitherto unknown pain at my
heart."
Ev. So that " the crime," like that of Sir Peter
Teazle, "carried its punishment along with it." But
you must see that the mind of Socrates first appreciated
beauty, ere this influence was imparted to him. Imagina-
tion is not certainly idle here, yet I grant, that if the
charm of substantial beauty or endearment be wanting,
poesy will ever be but a cold and joyless sentiment.
AsTR. Then there is another mysterious sympathy,
the fascination of the evil eye, or fascino. There were,
both in Africa and in Illyria, writes Aulius Gellius, cer-
tain families believed to possess the power of destroying
trees, flowers, and children, and this by merely praising
them; and Plutarch and Pindar refer to the credence
of the Greeks on this point, who were wont to invoke
the Fate Nemesis against this fascination of an evil
eye.
I think, too, traces of this credence may be found in
Ovid, and Horace, and Pliny.
Ev. Yes, and in modern Italy the professors of the
art are yet termed jettatori, or eye-throwers. But Val-
letta, an Italian author, conscious of the truth, boldly
disclaims for his countrymen the notion of demoniac
influence, referring it to physical impression, somewhat
resembling the fascination of the eye of the rattlesnake,
that drops, as we are told, the bird from the branch into
its mouth. In that exquisite sympathy between mind
and body (the sequence of an influence on sensibility,
or on the senses) consists the secret of all this.
You remember the effects of intense impression on
the mind in the excitement of catalepsy, and indeed in
causing instantaneous death: this is intense influence
on the sensibility. The effects of deep impression on
the sight or touch, by the passes of magnetism, are
magnetic ecstacies : this is intense influence on the
428 IXFLUE~CE OF FAITH.
senses. So that all your mysteries are the result of this
influence passing through the brain to the body; and
the vaunted miracles of Mesmer, and Bertrand, and
Dupotet, are, as I have said, impositions, chiefly as
regards the nature of their influence. And, like these,
the doctrines of Fludd the Seeker, of the Abbe Nollet,
of Lavater, of Nicetas the Jesuit, and the quaint ideas·
of many other visionaries, which you may read in their
writings, are really explicable by the laws of physiology.
'Yhen the magnetiser asserts that a patient should
possess a disposition to he acted on, he unwarily divulges
his own secret ; for this is nothing more than blind
faith in a promise. And this credulity is most charac-
teristic of that disordered condition of a nerve, acute
sensibility, in which the slightest causes may effect a
seeming wonder. Nay, even disease and death were
so induced during the manipulations of Hensler and
Emmelin.
This also is the secret of that influence imparted by
the touch of a seventh son ; or of the hand of a criminal
hanging on the gallows ; or the revolting precept of
Pliny, that an epileptic should drink the blood of a
dying gladiator, as it gushes from his wound; or the
stroking of Valentine Greatrex; the sympathetic powder
of Sir Kenelm Digby; the tractors of Perkins ; of chi-
romancy, rhabdomancy, and of other curiosities recorded
in tracts and journals. .
In my professional life, I have seen the same in-
fluence, though infinitely less in degree, imparted by
an implicit confidence in the blessings of our science.
Even Bertrand honestly confesses its power.
A lady was thrown into deep sleep by the touch of a
magnet, sent by him in an handkerchief from the dis-
tance of three hundred miles. But the same ejject was
produced by the contact of unmagneti:ed cambric; and
Bertrand allows, that where an ignorance of his inten-
INFI.PENCE OF FAITH. 429
tion existed, even tlte magnetized talisman was [Jowerles.~
over his patient.
I could tell you tales of hits of wood effecting all the
wonders of the metallic tractors of Perkins ; and cubes
of lead, and those of nickel, fraught, as a learned doctor
had declared, with magnetic virtues; but I spare you.
From this superstitious faith spring also the miracles
of that pious saint, who had assumed the staff of Saint
Francis Xavier, the Prince Hohenlohc. One of these
was the cure of Miss O'Connor, attested by Dr. Bad-
deley, of Chelmsford, who had tried in vain to relieve
the lady of acute neuralgia. She was directed to pro-
strate herself at the altar in Chelmsford at the moment
when the sainted prince would kneel at his shrine in
the cathedral .. of Bamberg. At the appointed time,
during the solemn celebration of high mass, as she ex-
claimed, " Thy will be done, 0 Lord," the agonizing
limb was painless.
I do not doubt the possibility of such an incident.
Aud here is the unfolding of another secret of these
German magnetizers, who were believed to shoot at
their patients with the unerring aim of a rifle, even
though many miles might intervene. Nadler, as we
are told in the " Aselepeion," was so good a shot, that
he brought a woman to the ground at the moment he
fixed his magnetic aura at her, aiming between the eyes
and the bosom, even at the distance of eighteen miles.
I am aware that this, my philosophy, would not pass
current at the Vatican, for "the congregation of the
holy office, having once applied to the pope, to know if
animal magnetism were lawful, and if penitents might
be permitted to be operated on; his holiness replied,
that the application of principles and means purely
physical to things and effects which are supernatural,
for the purpose ofexplaining them pltysically, is nothing
but an unlawful and heretical deception."
430 l~FLUEXCE OF FAITH.
But I l!lay tell you that his holiness himself was once
a great monopolist of saints' cures, if we may believe a
book, printed by Roberts, in London, in 1605, entitled,
" A Declaration of egregious Popish Impostures, to
withdraw the hearts of religious men, under pretence
of casting out devils ; practised by Father Edmunds,
alias l\Teston, a J esuite, and divers Romish priests his·
wicked associates."
And, moreover, the interference of priests has often
led to the interdiction of protestants, in their scientific
ministering to disease the most sev~re, as typhus·fever,
or surgical operations, because they were heretics; while
the profane Paracelsus says, " It matters not, by God
or devil, so he he cured;" even without an indulgence,
I presume, from Della Genga, or the leave of the sacred
college.
Believe me, the influence of faith will illustrate all
this mystery, and reduce even these impostures to a
simple truth. Without it, only the grossest supersti-
tion· would believe that sympathy 'would thus "take the
wings of the morning," and impart to a mind that was
thinking at our antipodes a consciousness of our own
sentiments ; for this would be a revival of that blind
credulity, which in the darker ages was reposed in the
superhuman agency of magic and of witchcraft.
SIBYLLINE INFLUENCE.
" She was a charmer, and cou'd almost read
The thoughts of people." OTHELLO,
InA. As you unfold the wonders of the mind, Evelyn,
the secrets of many .splendid mysteries shine forth in
the light of your truth; and the wisdom of " charmed
rings," "blessed brambles," and amulets and talis-
mans, fades before the precepts of a purer faith. Yet
is there no witchcraft in your philosophy ? You have,
methinks, absolved Astrophel from spells and dark
hours, for, in the softened lustre of his eye I see a light
more holy than its wonted flash of divination.
CAsT. You have more faith in his conversion than
I have, Ida; for, lo ye now ! On a mossy stone in Tin-
tern lay this sable velvet pouch, which, from its mystic
'broidery, might be the lost treasure of a Rosicrucian
cabalist.
" There's magic in the web of it ;
A sibyl that bad number'd in the world
The sun to make two hundred compa.c;ses,
In her prophetic fury sew'd the work.''
And here is a scroll of vellum folded within it. Listen,
432 SIBYl.. l.IXE 1:\'FLPENCE.
and you shall hear the pencillings of some unhappy
student, benighted in the mazes of the Cabala.
"The eye of modern philosophy may wink at the
wisdom of occult sciences, and sorcerers and magicians,
necromancers and Rosicrucians, cabalists and conjurers,
astrologers and soothsayers, Philomaths, Drows, and
Oreades,. wizards and witches, and warlocks, and sibyls_
and gipsies, may be, in its estimation, a mere legion of
cyphers. Yet faith hath been long and firmly la"ished
on the art of divination by the learned and mighty men
of all ages. The Chaldean, who read the stars, was the
coryphreus and the type of superhuman knowledge;
the magi of Persia and Egypt, and other orient lands,
followed in his wake. The venerable Hermes Trisme-
gistus was surrounded by his proselytes in the year of
the world 20i6; and Apollonius and Zoroaster, and
Pythagoras, and, in later ages, John of Leyden, Roger
Bacon, and other learned mystagogues, have imbibed
a more than mortal wisdom from the aspect of those
starry lights which gem the vaulted firmament; while
the luminous schools of Padua, and Seville, and Sala-
manca, were rich in the records of occult and mystic
learning. ~mperors and k~ngs, and ministers, who
ruled the destiny of mighty nations, have believed.
'Yallenstein was all confiding ; Richelieu and l\Iazarin
(as ~!orin writes) retained soothsayers as a part of their
household; Napoleon studied with implicit faith his
book of fate; and Canute, obedient to his confidence in
the virtue of relics, directed his Roman agent to buy
St. Augustine's arms for one hundred silver talents,
and one of gold.
" Nay, what saith divinity itself? Glanvil, the chap-
lain of King Charles II., affirms in his 'Saducismus
Triumphatus,' that ' the disbeliever in a "itch must
belieYe the de\il gratis ;' and "'"esley said, that 'giving
up witchcraft was, in fact, giving up the Bible.' Now,
~I 1\Yl.LI~E INFLl' I'~ :SCK,
as the Chaldcan sophs were divided into three dasses
1. the 'Ascaphim,' or channcr; 2. the '~lecaseaphim,'
or magician; 3. the ' Chasdim,' or astrologer; so the
legion of modern witches was composecl of a mystie
tryad, distinguished by colours that were u symbol of
their influence on our mortal frame. The black witch
could hurt, but not help ; the white could help, but not
hurt ; the grey could both help and hurt."
InA. l\fy own Castaly, have pity on us. Evelyn may
unrol the coils of this unholy manuscript if he will.
I do believe this lettered clerk has, in some unhappy
hour, wandered by the ruins of the Seven Churches in
the valley of Glendalough; and there, creeping up to
St. Keven's bed, that hangs over the gloomy waters of
its lake, has won the fatal f.,Pift of Catholic magic. Or
perchance he has sworn allegiance with Faust and Friar
Bacon.
AsTR. If an Oxford student 'must kneel at the shrine
of a fair lady, he will whisper this confession. In ex-
ploring the treasures of black-letter romance, he revelled
among the occult mysteries, slighting that pure analysis
of nature which is the essence of all philosophy. The
legends of Reginald Scott, De Foe, Glanvil, and
W anley, were the companions of his pillow; and thus
in poring over the legends of enchantment, he was him-
self enchanted, and contemplated a wondrous history of
witchcraft, where Sir \Valter himself had failed. Let
me have light penance, and I promise in the simple and
beautiful light of nature alone to read her ·wonders;
and if I dare, to study astrology in those planet eyes
which look so mildly on their proselyte.
InA. Or rather, as the magi of old, you will burn
your books of divination ; and, like Friar Bacon, who
broke the rare glass which showed him things fifty
miles off, you will study divinity, and become a pious
anchorite.
434 SIBYLLINE INFLUENCE.
CAsT. I am happy that you abandon the dark and
dooming spells of the magus and the witch, Astrophel,
for witchcraft is the unholy opposition of a demon to
the Deity. Yet in your fate I read my own. But cen-
sure not the poetry of that innocent romance that lights
up the legends of the berry-brown sibyl, whether she
be a tirauna prowling in the streets of ~1adrid, or a
gipsy perched upon the heath-brow of Norwood; for
theirs are happy prophecies. Yet if, like Astrophel, I
am to be the slave of philosophy, let me at least make
" a dying and a swan-like end." .
It was among the heath-valleys, where nature lay in
wild repose around the place of my birth, that I first
met the glance of a gipsy's eye. On the northern side
of that beautiful sandhill in Surrey, that rears its purple
and turret-crowned crest between the chalk hills and
the weald, there is a green and bosky glen, the "Valley
Lonesome." Along the waste of Broadmoor, that
spreads between the brow of Leith-Hill and the Roman
camp of A.nstie-bury, comes rippling down the crystal
streamlet of the Till, which, blending with a torrent
that leaps from a lofty sand-rock, steals away amid
mosses and.cardamines, and cuckoo-flowers; now glid-
ing between its emerald banks, now swelling into a
broader sheet, beneath the beech woods of Wotton, the
ancient seat of the Evelyns. There the willows dip
their silver blossoms, and the violet, ahnost hidden be-
neath them, fills the air with sweetness. There the
wild briar wreaths in light festoons its tiny roses, and the
passion-flower, entwining its luxuriant tendrils around
the aspen and the sycamore, hangs its beautiful blue
stars in rich profusion. And there, among the boughs
of lofty elms whose shadows in the early morning darken
the casements of Tillingbourne, ·a colony of rooks hang
their woody nests; and the murmurs of the ringdove,
nestling within the woods of Wotton and the Rookery,
t35
arc heard in the golden noon and sunset of Junc, float-
ing around this leafy paradise.
It was on such an eve that my thoughts had f.'ldcd
into slumber; and when my eyelids oped, there was a
form of embrowned beauty before me so wild, yet so
majestic, that Cleopatra, in the garb of an Egyptian
slave-girl, might have stolen upo.n my sleep : so scant of
clothing, so lovely of form and feature, she was like an
almond-flower upon a leafless branch. Her expression
was full of beautiful contrasts, for, while her eaglet eye
went into my being, there was a languid smile on her
ruddy lip, as she were about to syllable my own destiny;
and, indeed, she did unfold to me many things which
have been most strangely worked out and verified in my
life. I wept at some of these forctcllings, and she said,
"Tears were the pearls that gem the rose-leaves of life."
I smiled at others, and she said, '' Smiles were the sun-
light that warmed their swelling leaflets into beauty."
Throughout that summer night, when all were sleep-
ing, save two romantic girls, she unfolded to me the
secrets of her tribe, and a mine of mysteries learned
from a Bohemian Maugrahee. She told me how, and
why, the Druids, when the moon was six days old, cut
the misseltoe with a golden knife ; how the vervain was
gathered with the left hand, at the rising of the dog-
star ; and the lunaria was valueless, if not picked by
moonlight ; how the roan-wood, and the Banyan seed-
ling, and the four-leaved slwmr:ock, bore a charm in
their tender leaves against every ill of life. In nature,
she said, there is no bane without its antidote, were the
intellect of man ripe for its discovery. There are corals
and green jaspers, carved into the forms of dragons and
lizards, hung round an infant's neck, for the cure of an
ague ; the crimson-spotted heliotropium, to staunch a
flow of blood; a wrapper of scarlet-cloth, to mitigate
the virulence of small-pox; the blue-flannel, nine times
F f2
SIHYl.I.IXE IXFI.CEXGE.
dyed, to allay the pains of rheumatism ; and the magic
word Abracadabra, to sooth the disorders of a nerve.
And, above all, that wondrous weapon-salve of sympathy,
which once healed on the instant the wound of Ulysses,
and that which the drunty Ariel gave to :Miranda, to
charm Hippolito to life and health; and that with which
the lady of Branxholme sah·ed the broken lance, "·hen -
'Villiam of Deloraine was healed.
It will be long ere from my memory fade this vision.
of Charlotte Stanley. In pity, Evelyn, leave me this
one romance of my young life,-t~e sheet and taper,
nay, the ducking-stool for the witch, if you will, but
deign to bestow one smile upon the gipsies.
Remember the story of the Sibylline Tables. If
Sextus Tarquin had not frowned on the Roman gipsy,
she had not burned six of those precious volumes,
which, from the massive cabinets of stone made to en-
close the three that were preserved, prove that the
Roman thought them priceless. One smile, Evelyn,
for my sibyl. ·
Ev. Not in memory of the Sibylline Tables, but for
your own sake, dear Castaly. Although the innocence
of your nut-brown sibyl is not so clear, and I am some-
what jealous, too, of that white magic of hers, which
hath won the belief of so many minds the reverse of
illiterate, who, from the Chaldean even to Bacon and
'Villiam Lilly, have spurned philosophy, and even divi-
nity, and pinned their faith upon a gipsy's sleeve, and
doted on the inspiration of an astrologer.
InA. Forgetful, it would seem, that the wicked king
of BabyIon found the devout Daniel, and Hananiah,
and :Michael, and Azariah, ten times better than all his
magi and astrologers.
These are the antiquaries who possess the last relic
of the true cross; or the last morsel of Shakspere's
mulberry, of whieh last bit there may be about ten
SIBYLJ.IXE lN FIX E~CE. 437
thousand ; such arc they ·who would pen learned theses
on the disputed place of sepulture of St. Denys, and
determine the question, too, although one of his heads
is in the cathedral of Bamberg, another in the church
of Saint Vitus in the castle of Prague ; one of his hands
in a chapel at Munich; one of his bodies, minus one
hand, in the keeping of the monks of Saint Emmeram
at Regensbcrg; while the monks of Saint Denys pos-
sess another, his head being preserved in the third
shrine of the treasury in their cathedral. These may
be innocent follies, but superstition, alas ! will not
always stop here; fanaticism soon descends to self-
infliction, or to cruelty~ and in that moment it becomes
a black stain on the heart of man. Yet, even for the
tortures of the Inquisition (so exquisite, that we might
believe them the suggestions of a devil), the jesuit,
Macedo, has put forth this profane justification: that
the bloody tribuaal was first instituted by the Deity,
in the condemnation of Cain and the bricklayers of
Babel.
Ev. Such was the trial of ordeal instituted for the
test of innocence. Among the Anglo-Saxons, as all the
chronicles of their history will show, this mode of trial
prevailed ; as in the ordeals of the Cross, of boiling
water and of the hot i'ron ; of cold water, or drowning;
and of the corsned, or consecrated cake. Equally
savage was the trial for murder, so prevalent in Scot-
land, especially the institution of their Bahr-'recht, or
"Right of the bier." Among the "decisions" of Lord
Fountainhall, you may read of legends almost incredi-
ble. Philip, the son of Sir James Standfield, was exe-
cuted because, in lifting the corpse of his murdered
father from its bier, blood welled forth from his wound;
and the Laird of Auchindrane was tortured, because a
corpse chanced to bleed on the approach of a little girl,
who, I believe, was merely one of his domestics.
438 SIBYLLI:'IJE l~FLUE:'IJCE.
But waving these profanations, the reliques of a
darker age, let me have a word with Astrophel on part-
ing. The seeming fulfilment of many a sibylline pro-
phecy is perfectly clear as to its source. There may be
coincidence, as in the dream ; or faith and inducement
may impart an energy of action, which may itself work
a wonder, or accomplish that end which is referred to a ·
special power.
At the siege of Breda, in 1625, when fatigue and
abstinence had well nigh reduced the garrison to pro-
stration and despair, the Prince of Orange practised this
pious fraud on his soldiers :_:_He pretended to have
obtained a charmed liquor, so concentrated, that (on
the principles of homreopathy) four drops would satu-
rate a gallon of water with restorative virtues ; and with
so much skill was this administered by the physicians,
that a general restoration was speedily effected.
You remember, Astrophel, the temptation of Diocie-
tian. From Flavius Vopiscus Wft learn, that he was
paying the Druidess of Brabant, with whom he lodged.
" When I am emperor," he said, " I will be more gene-
rous.'' " Nay," said the Druidess, " you shall be em-
peror, when you have killed the BOAR." He hunted and
killed boars incessantly, but the purple was not offered
to him. At length, the Emperor Numerianus was mur-
dered by Arrius Aper. This was the eventful moment,
and, transfixing the heart of Aper with his sword, he
said, " I have slain the boar !" and the imperial crown
was his.
Is not this, too, the counterpart of that seeming pro-
phecy of the Weird Sisters, which made Macbeth a
murderer and a king?
There was an enchanted stone at Scone, in Scotland,
the palladium of Scottish liberty, for it was believed
that the lord of that spot on which the stone lay, should
bear sovereign sway. King Edward bore t;IIis talisman
6
SIBYLLINE lNFIAJENCE. -139
away in triumph; and Scotland, depressed by its los.v,
became a vassal of the English crown.
And this faith may invest the merest trifle with a
spell. Sir ~Iatthew Hale was presiding in his court on
the trial of a witch. She had cured many diseases by
a charm in her possession ; and the evidence seemed
conclusive of her guilt. But when the judge himself
looked on this charm, behold ! it was a scrap of paper,
inscribed with a Latin sentence, which, in default of
money, he himself, while on the circuit, had given many
years before, in a merry mood, to mine host, by way of
reckoning.
Among the many analogies to this story in ancient
times, there was the potent poison-charm or antidote of
1\fithridates, King of Pontus. Its effect was supreme.
And what its composition ? twenty leaves of rue, one
grain of salt, two nuts, and two dried figs !
Now you will remember that the wizard and the
ministers of these charms, even among savages, were also
their physicians, and, among pagans and papists, their
priests. It is clear that the sensitiveness of mind and
body under disease, when the first were consulted, and
under the influence of superstitious fear, instilled by
the priesthood, rendered them impressible to the most
trifling causes.
Even in minds of superior natural energy, from the
instilment of superstitious ideas in infancy, a blind
faith will often beco.me paramount. Such a mind, and
so influenced, was Byron's; and on such a faith he
once stole an agate bead from a lady, who had told
him it was an antidote to love. It failed: had it not,
Byron might have been a happier man ; but the
world would have been 'reft of poesy, the brightest,
yet the darkest, that ever flashed on the heart and mind
of man.
Sir Humphrey Davy, you may recollect, "knew a
440 SIBYI~LI~E 1::\'FLUENCE.
man of very high dignity, who never went out shooting
without a bittern's claw fastened to his button-hole
by a riband, which he thought ensured him good
luck."
To illustrate the innocence of your gipsy, Castaly,
hear this story.
"About forty years ago, a young lady, afterwards
~Irs. 1V--, rallied her companions aloud for listening
to the predictions of an itinerant gipsy, when the latter
malignantly threatened her to beware of her first con-
finement. She was shortly afterwards married; and, as
the period of her peril approached, it became evident to
her friends that the remembrance of the wizard maledic-
tion began to fasten upon her spirits. She survived
her time only a few days : and the medical attendants,
who were men of eminence, stated it as their opinion,
that mental prepossession alone could be admitted as
the cause of her death; not one unfavourable cir~um­
stance having occurred to explaj.n it.
"And some melancholy illusion of this nature induced
fatality in the case of another lady, (:Mrs. S.) who, ac-
cording to the statement of the venerable ~fr. Cline,
reluctantly. submitted to the removal of a small tumour
in her breast. Unexpectedly, and without any apparent
cause, she died, on the morning following the operation.
It was then for the first time ascertained that she had
prognosticated her death, and the impression that she
should not survive had taken so strong a possession of
her mind, that her minutest household arrangements
were preconcerted, as appeared by the papers found in
her cabinet."
I believe that many modern instances of gradual and
almost imperceptible decay, may be referred to the in-
fluence both of melancholy prophecies and Yisions on
the mind, although their agency may be unsuspected,
and as obscure as that of the poisonou~ herbs of the
SIBYJ,LJNE INFLUENCE., IH
Thcssalian Erichtho, or the sorceress of Neapolis, or tlw
aqua tofana of the ltalian.'l.
And superstitious fear may induce a sudden death.
Alfred, a nobleman, was one of the conspirators against
the Saxon Athelstan. To justify himself from the accu-
sation, he went to Rome, that he might make oath of
his innocence before John, the pope. On the instant he
took the oath he was cont'ul.l(ed, and, in three days, died.
Then as to the language of the stars :- -as the phreno-
logist is much indebted to the principles of Lavater in
forming his estimate of character, so I believe of the
astrologer. The aspect of the face is not always dis-
regarded in his prophecy, while he seems to observe
only the aspect of the stars. And although there is often
a very strange precision in his guesses, yet there was
once a curious incident in my own presence, from which
we may lean1 something of this secret. On a visit to a
learned astrologer, (who might rest his fame on another
art in which he is so eminent,) our fortunes, past and
fut1,1re, were told with extreme minuteness, and, I con-
fess, with many coincidences of former times. One was
reminded by the seer of a state of deprivation which he
endured in the year 18-, in the ~Iediterrancan. The
officer remembered in that year being becalmed in a
voyage to l\falta, and, under a sultry sky with parching
thirst, enduring the want of water for many days. This
was conclusive of the fidelity of the planets, until we
discovered that the horoscope was imperfect, for the
officer had given to the astrologer the wrong date of his
birth.
CAsT. And this, sir, is your Philosophy of l\lystery?
Oh for the forethought of my sibyl, that I might learn
my own fate for listening to this tre11son against the
throne of fancy, on the steps of which I have so l~mg
offered up my homage-this ruthless spoliation of her
dreamy kingdom !
442 SIBYLLI~E INFLUEXCE.
Ev. Let me for once play the sibyl, fair Castaly, and
whisper the penalty in your ear--
InA. A lesson in natural philosophy; and the apt
scholar, as I read it on her cheek, has in a moment
learned it all by heart; o'ershadowing all her bright
visions of earth and its romances.
Ev. ""'"hat marvel that a daughter of earth should be
so apt in its philosophy?-
" For half her thoughts were of its sun,
And half were of its show'rs."
But it is not so easy to shake the throne of fancy, or to
lay the genius of romance. He will ever wave his wand
of enchantment over the human mind. The poet ·will
still build his air-castles, and the ghost-seer indulge in
his wild visions of nonentity.
The wonders of creation will still affect us, according
to the quality of intellect or genius, or the constitu.tion
or cultivation of the mind. Th~ poor Indian will still
"see God in clouds, and hear him in the ·wind," and
the untutored rustic be startled by the shadow of
a shade. To him the slightest change in the regular
course of nature will still be a special miracle : thunder,
the awful voice of Divine reproof; lightning, the flashes
of Divine displeasure; the scintillations of the aurora,
the spectral forms of contending armies; and the comet
foretel the wreck of mighty empires. Against this un-
tutored devotion I would not breathe a thought,-it is
the voice of the Deity speaking to the savage.
But it is the privilege, the duty of intellect, to think
more deeply of the physiology of nature; and to learn
from the physical sciences, its real utility in the grand
scheme of the creation.
Philosophy, rising from the sublime study of these
beautiful phenomena, regards them as the pure effect of
those elemental laws, by which the int~grity of the
SIBYl.LINE IN-FLUENCE. H3
universe is preserved. And what ought this philosophy
to teach us? Not the superstition of the bigot-for the
age of special miracles is, for the present, past; not the
pride of the L'ltalist, who refers all to chance and neces-
sity; not the mania of the astrologer, who plumes him-
self on his prophetic wisdom, and presumes to interpret
to the letter the mysterious voice of his Creator; but
that true wisdom, which threw over Boyle, and Locke,
and Newton, the mantle of humility and devotion.
The autumn floods had descended from the moun-
tains of Gwent; the banks of the meandering \Vye
were desolate, and her woods leafless; yet the Abbey of
Tintern was still majestic and unchanged.
n had been decided, that when the summer sun shone
again on Wyndcliff, the wanderers should revisit the
beautiful valleys that lay beneath it, in memory of happy
hours; but ere this was fulfilled, changes manifold had
come over their destiny, from which might be fashioned
a true love-story.
For Astrophel, Ida had unconsciously worked a spell
of natural witchcraft, and his wild thoughts were ever
chastened by the pure light of her devotion. And
Evelyn almost confessed to Castaly, that there might
be a sort of animal magnetism. He has neglected the
study of the atomic theory, for the contemplation of
the animated atoms that play around his domestic
hearth; and the heart and life of Castaly, a poetry in
themselves, have since interwoven many a blushing
flower on the classic pages of his philosophy.
THE END.
LONDON:
GII.BERT AND RIVINGTON, PRINTERS,
ST. JOHN'S SQUARE.
ll Y TJIE SAJIE .lUTI/OR.
PHACTIGAL REMARKS ON
THE DISEASES OF THE SKIN,
OX THE
EXTERNAL SIGNS OF DISORDER,
AND ON TilE CONSTITCTIONAL PECCLIARITIES DURING
INFANCY AND CHILDHOOD.
" Much useful infonnation conveyed in very few words."-MI«:d.
" Mr. Dendy has drawn from his opportunities, as Sur17eon to tho
Royal Infirmary, valuable materials for various disquisitiOns on the
diseases of infancy."-British and Fordgn .Medical Quarterly Redell'.
8vo. Price &. 6d.
THE BOOK OF THE NURSERY.
PRECEPTS FOR THE MANAGE~IENT OF INFANTS,
AND FOR THE PREVENTION AND DOMESTIC TREATMENT OF
THE DISEASES INCIDENTAL TO CHILDHOOD.
"All should study this book, and instal it in their nurseries."-illetro-
politan Magazine.
" Mr. Dendy has done valuable &ervice to the rising generation."-
LiUrar.'l GautU.
