{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__purucker___fundamentals_of_the_esoteric_philosophy.pdf","mytitle":"Fundamentals Of The Esoteric Philosophy","mylang":"de"}
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE
ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
G . dt P U R U C K E R , m.a., d.litt.
E dited by
A. TREVOR BARKER
R ID E R & C O .
Paternoster House, Paternoster Row,
London, E.C.4
Printed in Great Britain at
The Mayflower Press, Plymouth, WilliamBrendon &Son, Ltd,
1903
PREFACE
D
R. DE PURUCKER, the present Leader of The
Theosophical Society, which has its International
Headquarters at Point Loma, California, delivered the
lectures contained in this volume to members of the
Esoteric Section during the years 1924-1927. They were given
under the direction of Katherine Tingley, then Leader of The
Theosophical Society, in fulfilment of a long cherished plan to
give to the world a work which would serve not only as a com
mentary upon The Secret Doctrine of H. P. Blavatsky, but at the
same time would be the means of giving out certain esoteric
keys, which would enable students to unlock for themselves the
treasure of knowledge therein contained. Many are the educated
men and women who have been forced to lay aside The Secret
Doctrine as too abstruse and difficult, because they had no
instruction and therefore no understanding of the fundamental
conceptions upon which the Esoteric Philosophy is based.
To those who hunger for truth and spiritual knowledge, and
who bring an open mind to the study of this book, it is not too
much to say that in asking they will receive, and in seeking
they will find.
The original stenographic report of these lectures was corrected
by the Author, but he has not had the time to read the proofs,
the re^ffonsibility for which he left to the Editor. The book
owes much to the collaboration of Dr. J. H. Fussell who, in
addition to doing some of the preliminary work of preparing the
MS. for publication, undertook the selection of the quotations
which appear at the head of each chapter. It should be mentioned
that all references to The Secret Doctrine are to the original
Edition (1888) of that work.
A certain amount of criticism was aroused among students of
Theosophy by the announcement that Dr. de Purucker had given
in these pages teaching which is not contained in the works of
H. P. Blavatsky. Moreover, these critics appear to base their
objections upon isolated quotations from Mme Blavatsky, in an
endeavour to show that it is impossible at this time that further
genuine teaching can be given, and ipso facto anything that is
given must be false. But students will recognise that anything
in the nature of dogmatism is contrary to the spirit of the Esoteric
Philosophy, and for that reason should be avoided. Inevitable
v
vi PREFACE
child of crystallized thought, it begins its lethal work by laying
a shadow on the mind, and ends by producing a sect.
The tendency of the dogmatist is to read only those parts
of the teaching which suit his own peculiar purpose, and
the rest of the Teacher’s writings are pushed into the back­
ground and thus prevented from doing their beneficent vifork.
Shall we not see for ourselves how H. P. Blavatsky regarded the
problem ? In her Five Messages to the American Theosophists,
she wrote:
“ Orthodoxy in Theosophy is a thing neither possible nor desirable.
It is diversity of opinion, within certain limits, that keeps the Theo-
sophical Society a living and a healthy body, its many other ugly
features notwithstanding. Were it not, also, for the existence of a
large amount of uncertainty in the minds of students of Theosophy,
such healthy divergencies would be impossible, and the Society woul d
degenerate into a sect, in which a narrow and stereotyped creed would
take the place of the living and breathing spirit of Truth and an ever­
growing Knowledge.
According as people are prepared to receive it, so will new Theo-
sophical teaching be given. But no more will be given than the
world, on its present level of spirituality, can profit by. It depends
on the spread of Theosophy—the assimilation of what has been already
given—how much more will be revealed and how soon.”
Again in the Introductory to The Secret Doctrine she
wrote:
“ In Century the Twentieth some disciple more informed, and far
better fitted, may be sent by the Masters of Wisdom to give final and
irrefutable proofs that there exists a Science called Gupta-Vidya;
and that, like the once-mysterious sources of the Nile, the source of
all religions and philosophies now known to the world has been for
many ages forgotten and lost to men, but is at last found.”
These statements are quite enough to show that Mme Blavatsky
never meant it to be understood that under no circumstances
would additional teaching be given. On the contrary she clearly
indicated that although the two volumes of The Secret Doctrine
contained all that could be given to the world in the nineteenth
century, the giving of further teaching would depend necessarily
upon the readiness of people to receive it.
So far from claiming that her writings contain the whole of
Theosophy she pointed out in her Introductory to The Secret
Doctrine that she had raised “ but a small corner of the dark
veil ” and “ after long millenniums of silence and secrecy ” had
given but an " outline of a few fundamental truths ” , “ because
that which must remain unsaid could not be contained in a
hundred such volumes ” . The Esoteric Doctrine in its totality
has always existed in the keeping of The Adepts in The Sacred
PREFACE vii
science, and it is therefore a complete system of thought which
does not evolve or change. But the whole of it never has and
never will be given out publicly, and therefore since from time
to time additional teaching is given, this does constitute for the
public a further unfolding or evolution of the age-old Doctrine.
In dther words Theosophy— the Wisdom of the Gods— is eternal
in Nature, but our understanding of it grows, and as “ those who
have ears to hear ” become fit and ready to receive more teaching,
more will be given. This fact is clearly brought out also by
William Q. Judge:
“ If any persons regard H. P. B.’s writings as the infallible oracles
of Theosophy, they go directly against her own words and the works
themselves; they must be people who do not indulge in original
thinking and cannot make much impression on the times.
As for the Theosophical Society, the moment it makes a hard and
fast definition of Theosophy it will mark the first hour of its decay.
Inasmuch as Theosophy is the whole body of truth about man
and nature, either known now or hereafter to be discovered, it
has the ' power of growth, progress and advancement,’ since every
new truth makes it clearer. But among the truths will not be
reckoned at any time the definitions, dogmas, creeds or beliefs laid
down by man.”
None the less it is a fact, paradoxical though it may seem to
some, that no teaching calling itself Theosophical will bear the
test of a thoroughly impartial investigation, unless it is consistent
with the teaching of H. P. Blavatsky ; and this precisely because
her writings bear the stamp of consistency with the recorded
teachings of all the great Sages and Seers of Antiquity.
Herein lies the strength of Dr. de Purucker, not only in this
work but in his other writings. True to the lines laid down by
Mme Blavatsky, he makes no appeal to dogmatic authority, but
claims his right to an impartial hearing on the ground that his
teaching “ closely adheres to Nature, and follows the laws of
uniformity and analogy ” . “ Proof,” he defines, “ as the pre­
ponderance of evidence bringing conviction to the mind,” and
goes on to show that if Knowledge is to grow in us then it is
necessary to check any tendency to crystallization of thought,
i.e., to limit the understanding by closing the doors of the mind
to further light upon any particular subject of study. The truth
is that in the search for the Great Knowledge, progress is seen
to be as endless as boundless Infinitude— inwards and upwards
for ever— towards the Unutterable. Herein perhaps also is the
secret of humility.
The meaning of any part of this book is not to be understood
by merely dipping into it here and there. A particular doctrine
is touched upon in one chapter, outlined in another, then dealt
viii PREFACE
with in fuller detail until in some later chapter the key thougnt
to the whole subject is revealed if the preceding ideas have been
grasped. Thus the mind of the reader is opened gradually to
receive teaching which becomes ever deeper with each succeeding
chapter, unfolding before the inner eye a vision of the age-old
Path that leads at last from darkness into Light.
70 Queen's Gate,
London, S.W. 7,
Dec. 28th, 1931*
A. TREVOR BARKER
INTRODUCTION
W
E sometimes lock ourselves in little boxes of opinion,
and will not be free for fear. But still sun shines,
winds blow, waves “ boom and blanche on the
precipices'’ ; and the winds and sun of the spirit,
the waves of time. While some are busy proving that
Teacher can come, one has appeared among us who Teaches.
The spirit will not be confined by rules that the petty mind
dictates to it, and we can impose no Thou shalt nots upon
inspiration. There are certain marks by which we may know
what comes from the heights: a light to illumine life and the
hidden things; a sublimity to enlarge the Soul. Do you not
see that what is ever-living cannot be cribbed and cabined
within what was spoken in this year or that, even by Speakers
with Authority; because words are finite things: of value as
carriers of the messages of the Spirit; harmful and tyrannous
when we bow our souls to them, and would make their finite­
ness an absolute ?
H. P. Blavatsky came not to shackle us with new creeds, but
to bring greatness and freedom to our minds. She pointed the
way to sublimity of life and thought: her keynote is sublimity.
She never said, there is a place where evolution stops, or where
knowledge stops. Because some have given out ridiculousness
in place of her sublime, it does not mean that the great Lodge
and its powers and wisdom are exhausted, or that there must
be no advance in knowledge.
As I understand the book, it makes this appeal: Turn your
eyes to the mountain-tops of being; feed your souls on the
grandeur of Truth. Who has H. P. Blavatsky as a living
power in his thought is not coffined in a creed, but judges each
new idea that comes to him by its power to illumine life.
L lw y n y p ia ,
Nov. 22nd, 1931.
KENNETH MORRIS
IX
CONTENTS
PART I
CHAPTER I
PAGE
The Self : Man's Inmost Link with the Unutterable. The Esoteric
Philosophy : Taught in all the Ancient Religions . . i
CHAPTER II
Where is Reality ? Truth can be Known. Man’s Composite Nature
ACCORDING TO DIFFERENT SYSTEMS *
. THREEFOLD, FOURFOLD, FIVE­
FOLD, or Sevenfold . . . . . . . . . 8
CHAPTER III
The Doctrine of Máyá : Objective Idealism the Basis of Morals :
Rooted in the Spiritual Unity—The Divinity— of the All. The
Self and the “ Selves" . . . . . . . . 17
CHAPTER IV
From Primordial Point to Universe and Man. How does Manifesta­
tion Arise ? Manvantara and Pralaya . . . . . 2 6
CHAPTER V
The Esoteric Teachings and the Nebular Theory. Gods behind
the Kosmos : Why Nature is Imperfect . . . . . 37
CHAPTER VI
The Dawn of Manifestation : Laya-Centers. A Conscious Universe
— Spiritually Purposive. Stoic Doctrine of the Intermingling
o f a l l Beings : “ Laws of Nature." Philosophical Polytheism
and the Doctrine of Hierarchies
xi
48
xii CONTENTS
CHAPTER VII
“ Hierarchies ” : One of the Lost Keys of the Esoteric Philosophy.
The Pythagorean Sacred Tetractys. The Ladder of Life :
The Legend of PadmapAni . . . . .
CHAPTER VIII
Traces of the Esoteric Philosophy in Genesis . . . .
CHAPTER IX
Outline of Esoteric Cosmogony. Globes, Rounds and Races :
Cosmic Time-Periods............................................................................
CHAPTER X
The Doctrine of Swabhava— Self-Becoming—Characteristic Indi­
viduality. Man, Self-Evolved, His Own Creator. Monadologie of
Leibnitz Contrasted with Teachings of the Esoteric Philosophy
CHAPTER XI
The Cosmic Pilgrimage from Un-Self-Conscious Godspark to Fully
Self-Conscious God . . . . . . . . .
CHAPTER XII
Psychology : According to the Esoteric Philosophy. Immortality
is Conditional : The Loss of the So u l ......................................
CHAPTER XIII
T he Process of Evolution. Self, Ego, and Soul : " I Am ” and " I
Am I " ..............................................................................................
CHAPTER XIV
" Heavens " and “ Hells ” : Teachings of the Esoteric Philosophy,
and of the Exoteric Religions . . . . . .
CHAPTER XV
PAOS
6o
73
84
96
108
120
I27
I37
The Evolution of the “ Absolute ” . Generalized Plan of Evolution
on all Planes. Seven Keys to Wisdom and Future Initiations 147
CONTENTS xiii
CHAPTER XVI
PACK
Atma-VidyA : How the One Becomes the Many. “ Lost Souls " and
“ Soulless Beings ". Man, a Composite Being : No Abiding
Principle in Ma n ...........................................................................159
CHAPTER XVII
The Silent Wa t c h e r ...........................................................................178
CHAPTER XVIII
The Spiritual-Psychological Hierarchy of Adepts. The “ Wondrous-
Being ", the Buddhas, Nirmânakâyas, Dhyân-Chohans . . 191
CHAPTER XIX
The Seven Jewels and the Seven Stages of Initiation . . 2 1 3
CHAPTER XX
The Higher Aspect of Human Psychology. Initiation and the
Mysteries : Avatâras, Buddhas and Bodhisattvas. Their
Relation to Globes, Rounds, and Races..........................................230
CHAPTER XXI
Initiations and the Ancient Mysteries. Root-Races and their Sub­
divisions. Globe-Rounds. Planetary Rounds. Solar Kalpas :
How Calculated. Racial Ca t a c l y s m s ..........................................243
CHAPTER XXII
The Hierarchy of Compassion. The Incarnation of the Mânasaputras 254
CHAPTER XXIII
The Sun and the Planets : Their Rôle in the Evolutionary Drama 271
PART II
CHAPTER XXIV
The Ten Stages of Being According to the Syrian System. Esoteric
Method of Teaching : Paradoxes : Intuition 285
xiv CONTENTS
CHAPTER XXV
F
A
O
B
The Mysteries of Septenary Nature. Correspondences : Globes,
Elements, Human Principles. The Seven Sacred Planets of the
Ancients. Racial Time-Periods and Catastrophes . . . 295
CHAPTER XXVI
The Microcosm, a Mirror of the Macrocosm. Elements, Principles,
Manifestations of the One Life. Relativity : A Fundamental
Conception of the Ancient Wisdom ................................................305
CHAPTER XXVII
The Two Fundamental Kosmical Hierarchies : Matter and Spirit-
Consciousness. Chaos-Theos-Kosmos. Gods-Monads-Atoms . 312
CHAPTER XXVIII
The Adventure of an Atom. Laya-Centers : Sun, Comets, and
Planets : Soul and Monad. The Keynote of Occultism . 321
CHAPTER XXIX
Space : The Boundless All. Infilled with Interlocking, Inter­
penetrating Universes. One Action, One Hierarchical In­
telligence, One Course of Operation Throughout Nature :
One Organism, One Universal Li f e ............................................... 328
CHAPTER XXX
The Interrelation of Gods, Monads, Atoms— A Key to the Doctrine
of Evolution. Successive Emanations : Sheaths. Higher
Beings Emanating and Clothing Themselves in Hosts of Lower
Beings. Morality Based on the Structure of the Universe . 336
' CHAPTER XXXI
The Building of the Kosmos. The Same Fundamental Law Through­
out Life and Being : An Endless Ladder of Progress. Ana­
logical Processes of Cosmical and Psychological Development.
The River of Li f e ............................................................................ 344
CONTENTS XV
CHAPTER XXXII
PAGE
Out of the Invisible into the Visible. From the Visible into the
Invisible. The Magnum Op u s .........................................................356
CHAPTER XXXIII
The Life-Wave and the Seven Elements. The Esoteric Philosophy
as Taught by the St o ic s ..................................................................365
CHAPTER XXXIV
The Spaces of Space. The Secret Doctrine, a Unifier : Universal
Keys. Doctrines of " The Void ” and of “ The Fullness *'
Co n t r a s t e d .....................................................................................373
CHAPTER XXXV
Occultism and the Mystery-Schools. Seven Degrees of Initiation :
Man Becomes a God. Seven Kosmic Planes : Our Planetary
Chain of Seven Globes on the Four Lower Planes : The Passage
of the Life-Wave Th e r e t h r o u g h ............................................... 385
CHAPTER XXXVI
Interpenetrating Spheres of Being. Lokas and Talas : Bi-Polar
Cosmical Principles and Elements. The “ Heresy of Separate­
ness ” . . . . . . . . . . . 396
CHAPTER XXXVII
The Frame-Work of the Kosmos. Lokas and Talas : Principles
and Elements : Worlds— Not States Merely. Space the
Ultimate Re a l i t y ............................................................................
CHAPTER XXXVIII
Degeneration and Closing of the Schools of the Mysteries. Neo-
Pythagorean and Neo-Platonic Systems : Main Sources of
Christian Theology. Esoteric and Exoteric Teachings :
Symbolism...............................................................................................
XVI CONTENTS
CHAPTER XXXIX
pnas
Theosophy and Occultism. Occultism : The Quintessence of Truth,
Reality : A Complete Whole. Occultism and Moral Responsi­
bility. Our Solar System: A Kosmic Atom : " Egg of BrahmA " 429
CHAPTER XL
Definitions of Deity : Atheism : Pantheism. Is there a Supreme
Personal God ? Kosmic Architects and Builders. Really to
Know, One Must Become...................................................................435
CHAPTER XLI
The Doctrine of the Spheres. The Universal Solar System and
our Solar System. The Seven Sacred Planets : Why " Sacred " ? 447
CHAPTER XLII
The Doctrine of the Spheres in its Four Aspects. The Seven Sacred
Planets and their Rectors : Their Relation to our Earth-
Chain. The Circulations of the Kosmos : Outer Rounds and
A
Inner Rounds : Sishtas. One Universal Basic Law : As Above,
so Below. The “ Eye " and the " Heart " Doctrines . . 458
CHAPTER XLIII
Analogy : The Life of Man and the Life of a Planetary Chain.
Occultism and Ethics : “ Live the Life if Thou Wouldst Know
the Doctrine ” ..................................................................................... 471
CHAPTER XLIV
Principles of Thought and Study : Can Occultism be Taught ?
Ancient Astrology a True Science. Our Earth-Chain of Globes,
the Seven Sacred Planets, and the Twelve Zodiacal Signs.
Life-Atoms : The B uilding-Blocks of the Universe . . 4 8 1
CHAPTER XLV
Physiology, Psychology, and Pneumatology of the Universe. Ten
and Twelve Planes of the Universal Solar System : Intermedi­
ate Critical Planes. All Manifested Being a Graded Continuum
of Interrelated, Interlocked Hierarchies : Each with its
A
Own Beginning and End. Sishtas and the “ Surplus of Lif e “ 496
CONTENTS xvii
CHAPTER XLVI
PAG*
The Chela-Life. Seven and Ten Life-Waves : The Course of the
Monads Around the Seven Globes : Laws of “ A cceleration "
on the Downward and of “ Retardation ” on the Upward Arc.
Fifth a^ d Sixth Rounders. The Sacred “ Word ” . . . 514
CHAPTER XLVII
Teacher and Pupil. Requisites of Chelaship . . . . 527
CHAPTER XLVIII
The Heart of the Universe. The Way to Peace, Bliss, Understand­
ing, is Within. The Great Quest : K now Thyself : The Whole
Secret of Initiation. Our Responsibility : Ethical Values and
the Laws of the Universe : Harmony . . . . . 535
P A R T I
FUNDAMENTALS OF
THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
P A R T I
CHAPTER I
THE SELF : MAN'S INMOST LINK WITH THE UNUTTERABLE. THE
ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY : TAUGHT IN ALL THE ANCIENT
RELIGIONS.
. . . neither the collective Host (Demiurgos), nor any of the working powers
individually, are proper subjects for divine honors or worship. All are entitled
to the grateful reverence of Humanity, however, and man ought to be ever
striving to help the divine evolution of Ideas, by becoming to the best of his
ability a co-worker with nature in the cyclic task. The ever unknowable and incog­
nizable Kdrana alone, the Causeless Cause of all causes, should have its shrine
and altar on the holy and ever untrodden ground of our heart— invisible, intan­
gible, unmentioned, save through “ the still small voice ” of our spiritual con­
sciousness. Those who worship before it ought to do so in the silence and the
sanctified solitude of their Souls ; making their spirit the sole mediator between
them and the Universal Spirit, their good actions the only priests, and their
sinful intentions the only visible and objective sacrificial victims to the Presence.
The Secret Doctrine (H. P. Blavatsky), I, 280.
F
e l l o w -s t u d e n t s of the Ancient wisdom :
We stand on holy ground. The Leader's call seems like
the clarion voice of the Law, of the Ancient Wisdom, which,
echoing down the ages, rings in our hearts at a moment
like this, and seems to tell us in accents that we may interpret if
we have the heart and the soul so to do : " Fidèles, sursum corda :
Up hearts, ye faithful ones ! " And may we not answer in the
same spirit which the Leader has shown, has manifested to us
this evening : “ Yea, verily, in the name of Truth, we lift our
hearts to the shining god within each one of us " ?
We are here this evening in the presence of the agent and the
representative of the Exalted Men who form the Guardian-Body
of the Esoteric Philosophy. We must feel called. The hour is a
solemn one. It is time for us to rise above personality and, face
to face with ourselves, search our hearts, and endeavor so to
speak the words which we have learned that, as the Teacher has
told us, others who have had less chance than ourselves may in
their turn pass on these truths of the inner life.
In our last two meetings we studied the Three Fundamental
2 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Postulates or Principles in H. P. Blavatsky’s wonderful'work,
The Secret Doctrine. I remember in particular the Teacher’s words
in comment after the meeting had ended. They struck me as very
beautiful, profoundly suggestive. She said :
“ Thinking towards the unthinkable is a wonderful, spiritual­
izing force ; one cannot think toward it without a dispçsition
either to think more or feel more—without opening up the inner
consciousness of man. And when that inner consciousness is
awakened, the soul finds itself closer to the infinite laws, closer
to That, or that Great Center that no words can express.”
We have endeavored to reach two planes, which we have to
compare, to reach, by the appeal to the Inmost within ourselves.
We are taught that there exists in man a link with the Unutter­
able, a cord, a communication, that extends from It to the inner
consciousness ; and that link— such is the teaching as it has
come down to us— is the very Heart of Being. It arises in that
super-sensory Principle, that Unutterable Mystery which H. P.
Blavatsky defines in the first of the Three Fundamental Pro­
positions as above human mind. Becoming one with that link,
we can transcend the powers of ordinary human intellect, and
reach (even if it be by striving out, upward, towards) that Un­
utterable, which is— though it is beyond human power to express
it in words, or beyond human thought— which is, we know, the
Concealed of the Concealed, the Life of Life, Truth of Truth,
the A ll.
Here is the thought, it seems to me, which illustrates so well
the Teacher’s words ; striving toward this inwards, towards the
Inmost, we can attain to some conception, if not understanding,
of the Infinite Principle of all that is. From It, in the course of
endless duration, there spring into manifestation— so the teaching
runs— at the end of the great universal or cosmic Pralaya, the
beginnings of things. These beginnings eventuate in the forms
of life and being that H. P. Blavatsky describes in the Second
and Third Fundamental Propositions.
This inmost link with the Unutterable was called in ancient
India by the term Self, which has been often mistranslated
‘ Soul ’. The Sanskrit word is Atman, and applies, in psychology,
to the human entity. The upper end of the link, so to speak, to
use human terms, was called Paramâtman, or the ‘ Self Beyond ’,
the permanent Self— words which describe neatly and clearly
to those who have studied this wonderful philosophy, somewhat
of the nature and essence of the thing which man is, and the
source from which, in that beginningless and endless duration, he
sprang. Child of earth and child of heaven, he contains both in
himself.
We pass now from considering the First Proposition to the
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 3
Secoifd and the Third. And in order that we may understand
what we mean when we use certain words, it will be useful to
illustrate our usages of such words. Let us take up the very
interesting and remarkably well translated book entitled The
Song Celestial, the work of Sir Edwin Arnold. It is a translation
into pngiish verse of the Bhagavad-Gitd. That work is an episode
or an interlude in the Mahabhdrata, the greater of the two great
Hindi! epics. It is found in the sixth book of the Mahabhdrata,
i.e., the ‘ Great Bharata ’ ; and in the style of the Hindi! writings
it comprises a dissertation on religious, philosophical, and mystical
subjects. It has been several times translated, more or less
successfully. Possibly the best has been that of our second
Teacher, William Quan Judge. His work is a recension, rather,
of a translation by Wilkins, modified by Cockburn, and in turn
corrected, according to the Esoteric Philosophy, by Mr. Judge.
Sir Edwin’s Song Celestial, in book the second, has the following :
. . . The soul which is not moved,
The soul that with a strong and constant calm
Takes sorrow and takes joy indifferently,
Lives in the life undying 1 That which is
Can never cease to be ; that which is not
Will not exist. To see this truth of both
Is theirs who part essence from accident.
Substance from shadow. Indestructible,
Learn thou ! the Life is, spreading life through all;
It cannot anywhere, by any means,
Be anywise diminished, stayed, or changed.
But for these fleeting frames which it informs
With spirit deathless, endless, infinite.
They perish............
Never the spirit was bom ; the spirit shall cease to be never ;
Never was time it was n ot; End and Beginning are dreams !
Birthless and deathless and changeless remaineth the spirit for ever ;
Death hath not touched it at all, dead though the house of it seems !
Now these words are exquisitely beautiful. They nevertheless
contain a mistranslation, a misrendering of the text of this
wonderful little work. In the first place, Sir Edwin translates
the Sanskrit word Tat, which we explained in our last study,
first by the word soul and next by the word spirit. Of course,
analogically, it has a reference to the Soul and the Spirit of Man ;
but the Sanskrit of it does not point particularly to the Soul of
Man. I will read a translation in prose, of these same verses,
made with no attempt at poetic thought, no attempt to use
beautiful language, but simply to express the thought:
The man whom these do not lead astray, 0 Bull among men ! who
is the same in pain and pleasure, and of steady soul, he partakes of
immortality.
4 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
There is no existence for the unreal ; there is no non-existence for
the Real. Moreover, the ultimate characteristic of both these is seen
by those who perceive true principles.
Know That to be indestructible by which this whole Universe was
woven.
The Sanskrit word for That is T at ; and by that word the
Vedic Sages described this Unutterable Principle, from which all
sprang. The figure is that of the weaving of a web.
The destruction of this Imperishable, none is able to bring about.
These mortal bodies are said to be of the imbodied Eternal, Inde­
structible, Immeasurable One. . . .
He who knows It as the slayer, and he who thinks It to be the slain :
both of them understand not. It slays not, nor is it slain.
It is not born, nor does it ever die ; It was not produced, nor shall
it ever be produced.
It is unborn, constant, everlasting, primeval. It is unhurt when
the body is slain.
The application that the writer in the Bhagavad-Gîtâ makes,
is to the link which we have spoken of, the deathless, undying
principle within us ; and he describes it by the word T hat, and
contrasts it with the manifested Universe, which, following tjje
Ancient Teachings of India, was invariably spoken of as T his :
the Sanskrit word is Id a m .
The Sages of Olden Times left on record the inner teaching of
the religions of the peoples among whom they lived. This inner
teaching was the Esoteric Philosophy, the Theosophy of the
period. In Hindûsthân this Theosophy is found in the Upanishads,
a part of the Vedic literary cycle. The word itself implies *Secret
Doctrine ' or *Secret Teachings \ From the Upanishads and
from other parts of the wonderful Vedic literature, the ancient
sages of India produced what is called to-day the Vedânta— a com­
pound Sanskrit word meaning ‘ the End (or Completion) of the
Veda — that is to say, instruction in the final and most perfect
exposition of the meaning of the Vedic tenets.
In Ancient Greece there were various Schools and various
Mysteries ; and the Theosophy of Ancient Greece was held very
secret ; it was taught in the Mysteries and it was taught by
different teachers to select bodies of their disciples. One of such
great teachers was Pythagoras ; another was Plato ; and this
Theosophy was more or less clearly outlined and imbodied, after
the fall of the so-called Pagan religions, in what is to-day called
the Neo-Platonic philosophy. It represents actually the inner
teachings of Pythagoras, Plato, and the inner sense of those
mystical doctrines which passed current in Greece under the name
of the Orphic poems.
Of the Theosophy of Egypt we have but scanty remainings
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 5
such as exist in what is called ‘ The Book of the D e a d O f the
Theosophy of ancient America, of the Incan, the Mayan, empires
we have next to nothing. The Theosophy of ancient Europe has
passed away. All that remains to us is a certain number of
mystical writings such as the Scandinavian Eddas, and the
Germanic* books, which are represented, for instance, in the
Sagas found written in the old High German and in the Anglo-
Saxon tongues.
A study which anyone can make of the doctrines contained in
the Upanishads, in ‘ The Book of the Dead', in the Neo-Platonic
philosophy, in the Scandinavian Eddas, and elsewhere, shows
that they had one common basis, one foundation, one common
truth. Various men in various ages at various times taught the
same truth, using different words and different tropes, different
figures, different metaphors; but underneath always was the
Ancient Doctrine, the Secret Wisdom.
The Theosophy of the Jews was imbodied in what was later
called the Qabbalah, from a Hebrew word meaning ‘ to receive ’ ;
that is to say, it was the traditional doctrine handed down, or
received (according to the statements of the Qabbalah itself)
through the prophets and the sages of Jewry; and was said to
have been first taught by “ God Almighty to a select company of
angels in Heaven ” .
We must understand, when we approach the teachings of the
Ancient Wisdom, that the ancient teachers spoke and thought
and taught anthropocentrically ; that is, that they all insisted on
following the psychological laws of the human mind, and there­
fore taught in human figures of speech, oft using quaint metaphors,
very odd, and yet so instructive as figures of speech. How wise
that was ! because they were able to carry on the Ancient Teach­
ings, and did so in such fashion that least of all did this anthropo­
centric system encourage the dogmatic rulings that have most
truly blasted all that was best in the teachings of the Christian
Church. These tropes, these metaphors, were so quaint that the
mind understood almost instantly that they were but the vehicle
imbodying the Truth. Let us remember this, and our work
becomes immensely more easy.
Now let us take the Qabbalah as a sample of the manner in
which one Theosophy— the Jewish— approaches the mystery of
how the Unmanifest produces the Manifest, how from that which
is endless and beginningless duration, sprang forth matter, space
in the sense of material extension, and time. But first let me
quote from another Sanskrit work, one of the Upanishads, the
Kena-Upanishad. Speaking of this Unutterable Mystery, it says :
The eye reacheth it not, language reacheth it not, nor does thought
6 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
reach to it at all; verily, we know not nor can we say how onff should
teach i t ; it is different from the known, it is beyond the unknown.
Thus have we heard from the men of olden times, for they taught it
to us.
The great Sankaracharya, perhaps the most famous of Indian
commentators on the Ufianishads and the marvelously beautiful
system of philosophy drawn from them called the Vedanta, says,
commenting on the Aitareya-Upanishad :
There is the One, sole, alone, apart from all duality, in which there
appear not the multitudinous illusory presentments of unreal bodies
and conditions of this universe of merely apparent reality ; passion­
less, unmoving, pure, in utter peace ; knowable only by the lack of
every adjective epithet; unreachable by word or by thought.
The Qabbalah is the traditionary teaching of the sages among
the Jews. It is a wonderful teaching ; it contains in outline or in
epitome every fundamental tenet or teaching that our own Secret
Doctrine contains. The teachings of the Qabbalah are often
couched in very quaint and sometimes amusing language ; some­
times its language rises to the height of sublimity. What does the
Zdhar, the second of the great books that remain of the Jewish
Qabbalah (the word ‘ Zohar' itself meaning ‘ Splendor'), have to
say of the manner in which the Jewish religious books should be
studied ? It says this (iii, 152 a) :
Woe be to the son of man who says that the Torah [the Hebrew
Bible, especially the Pentateuch, or rather the first four books of the
Bible excluding Deuteronomy, the fifth] contains common sayings
and ordinary narratives. If this were the case we might in the present
day compose a code of doctrines from profane writings which would
excite greater respect. If the Law contains ordinary matter, then there
are nobler sentiments in profane codes. Let us go and make a selection
from them and we shall be able to compile a far superior code. No !
Every word of the Law has a sublime sense and a heavenly mystery.
. . . As the spiritual angels had to put on earthly garments when
they descended to this earth, and as they could neither have remained
nor be understood on the earth without putting on such a garment,
so it is with the Law. When it descended on earth, the Law had to
put on an earthly garment, in order to be understood by us, and the
narratives are its garment. . . . Those who have understanding do
not look at the garment but at the body [the esoteric meaning] beneath ;
whilst the wisest, the servants of the heavenly King, those who dwell
on Mount Sinai, look at nothing but the soul,—
i.e., at the ultimate Secret Doctrine or sacred wisdom hid under
the ‘ body under the exoteric narratives or stories of the Bible.
In these days, when Modernists and Fundamentalists quarrel
— quarrel unnecessarily, quarrel about exoteric superficialities,
quarrel about things which arise out of the egoism of men, quarrel
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 7
aboutIthe dogmatic teachings of the Christian Church, every one
of them probably based on ancient Pagan Esoteric Philosophy—
it is an immense pity that they do not know and understand that
this teaching of the Qabbalah as expressed in the Zohar is a
true one ; it is the teaching of our three Leaders and Teachers ;
for under every garment is the life. As Jesus taught in parables,
so the Bible was written in tropes, in figures of speech, in
metaphors.
CHAPTER II
WHERE IS REALITY ? TRUTH CAN BE KNOWN. MAN'S COMPOSITE
NATURE ACCORDING TO DIFFERENT SYSTEMS .
* THREEFOLD,
FOURFOLD, FIVEFOLD, OR SEVENFOLD.
The fundamental Law in that system [i.e., the Esoteric Philosophy], the central
point from which all emerged, around and toward which all gravitates, and upon
which is hung the philosophy of the rest, is the One homogeneous divine Sub­
stance-Principle, the one radical cause.
. . . " Some few, whose lamps shone brighter, have been led,
From cause to cause to nature’s secret head,
And found that one first Principle must be . . .”
It is called “ Substance-Principle,” for it becomes ” substance ” on the plane
of the manifested Universe, an illusion, while it remains a ” principle ” in the
beginningless and endless abstract, visible and invisible Space. It is the omni­
present Reality: impersonal, because it contains all and everything. Its
impersonality is the fundamental conception of the System. It is latent in every
atom in the Universe, and is the Universe itself.
The Secret Doctrine (FI. P. Blavatsky), I, 273.
It is the True. It is the Self, and thou art It.
Chlidndogya-Upanishad.
The Tao which can be expressed in words is not the eternal T ao ; the name
which can be uttered is not its eternal name. Without a name, it is the Beginning
of Heaven and Earth ; with a name, it is the Mother of all things. Only one
who is eternally free from earthly passions can apprehend its spiritual essence;
he who is ever clogged by passions can see no more than its outer form. These
two things, the spiritual and the material, though we call them by different
names, in their origin are one and the same. This sameness is a mystery— the
mystery of mysteries. It is the gate of all spirituality.
The Sayings of Lao Tzti (Lionel Giles, Trans.).
W
E open Volume I of H. P. Blavatsky’s Secret Doctrine
this evening at page 13, and we read the second
paragraph, which is as follows :
The reader has to bear in mind that the Stanzas given treat only
of the Cosmogony of our own planetary System and what is visible
around it, after a Solar Pralaya. The secret teachings with regard to
the Evolution of the Universal Kosmos cannot be given, since they
could not be understood by the highest minds in this age, and there
seem to be very few Initiates, even among the greatest, who are
allowed to speculate upon this subject. Moreover the Teachers say
openly that not even the highest Dhy&ni-Chohans have ever pene­
trated the mysteries beyond those boundaries that separate the
milliards of Solar systems from the " Central Sun,” as it is called.
Therefore, that which is given relates only to our visible Kosmos,
after a “ Night of Brahm&.”
8
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 9
We‘ choose this as the general text of our study this even­
ing. Following the Teacher’s instructions, as we understand
them, it seems not only appropriate but necessary to open our
study of the more secret matters of which The Secret Doctrine
treats, by asking in what manner or by what method do we obtain
an understanding and a realization of these doctrines ? Do they
come to us as dogmatic teachings, or are they derived, following
the definition that Webster gives of Theosophy in his dictionary,
by inner spiritual communion with ‘ God' ? There is something
in Webster’s definition which is true. The Theosophist does
believe that he has within himself the faculty of approaching
divine things, of raising the inner man so that he can thereby
obtain a more accurate mental representation of things as they
are, or of Reality.
But on the other hand, if everyone did this, without proper and
capable guidance and leading and teaching, extreme vanity and
human conceit as well as many other forces in the human economy,
would inevitably lead to an immense diversity of opinions and
teachings and doctrines, each man believing that he had the
truth and he only, and hence that those who followed him and
preached his views should form with him a special ‘ church ’ or
‘ sect ’ of their own. The words themselves would probably be
avoided, but it would amount to that.
Therefore, here we find the use, the benefit, the appositeness, of
the Theosophical doctrines which our Teachers have given to us,
to the effect that these teachings have come down to us from
immemorial antiquity—transmitted from one Teacher to another
— and that originally they were communicated to the nascent
human race, when once it became self-conscious, by Beings from
a higher sphere— Beings who themselves were of divine origin;
and further, that this communication or emanation of their
spiritual and higher intellectual selves into us, gave us our own
higher principles. For the Teachers have told us that these
doctrines have been checked or proved age after age, generation
after generation, by innumerable spiritual seers, to use Helena
Petrovna Blavatsky’s own words— checked in every respect,
checked as to fact, checked as to origin, checked as to operation
on the human mind.
Now then, as the older students of this School— many of whom
are here present— know well, the faculties by which man can
attain a knowledge of truth, of the Real, can be called upon or
evoked at any moment in any place, provided the right conditions
are made, so that the striving soul may thus reach successfully
upward or inward, and know. Sometimes, in the most simple
teachings are found the most divine truths. And why ? Because
the simple teachings are the fundamental ones.
10 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Consider for a moment, therefore, the seven principles flf man,
in their connexion with the seven principles of the universe. The
seven principles of man are a likeness or copy of the seven cosmic
principles. They are actually the offspring of the seven cosmic
principles, limited in their action in us by the workings of the
Law of Karman, but running in their origin back'into That
which is beyond : into that which is the Essence of the universe
or the Universal; in, beyond, within, to the Unmanifest, to the
Unmanifestable, to that first Principle which Helena Petrovna
Blavatsky enunciates as the leading thought of the Wisdom-
Philosophy of The Secret Doctrine.
These principles of man are reckoned as seven in the philosophy
by which the human, spiritual, and psychical economy has been
explained to us in the present age. In other ages these principles,
or parts, of man were differently reckoned— the Christian reckons
them as Body, Soul, and Spirit, and does not know the difference
between the soul and the spirit: he thinks there must be a
difference but does not know what it is ; and many say that the
soul and spirit are the same.
Some of the Indian thinkers divided man into a basic fourfold
entity, others into a fivefold. The Jewish philosophy, as found in
the Qabbalah which is the esoteric tradition of the Jews, teaches
that man is divided into four parts :
1. The highest and most spiritual of all, that principle or fjart
which is to us a mere breath of being, they called Neshdmdh.
2. The second principle was called Ruahh or Spiritual Soul,
spelled sometimes Ruach according to another method of trans­
literation.
3. The Astral Soul (or Vital Soul) was called Nefesh, the third
next lower, which man has in common with the brutes.
4. Then comes the Guf or physical vehicle, the house in which
all these others dwell.
Over all, and higher than all, higher than the Neshdmdh—
which is not an emanation of this Highest, not a creation, not an
evolution, but of which it was the production in a sense which we
shall later have to explain— there is the Ineffable, the Boundless,
called Ain Suf.
The Sanskrit terms which have been given by our Teachers to
the seven principles of man in our own Theosophical Philosophy,
are as follows, and we can get much help from explaining the
original Sanskrit meanings of them, and illustrating the sense in
which those words were used, and why they were chosen.
1. SthUla means coarse, gross, not refined, heavy, bulky, fat in
the sense of bigness. Sarira comes from a root which can best be
translated by saying that it is that which is easily dissolved, easily
worn aw ay; the idea being something transitory, foam-like, full
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY xi
of holes, as it were. Note the meaning hid in this: it is very im­
portant.
2. The second principle let us call the Linga-Sarira. Linga is
a Sanskrit word which means characteristic mark ; hence model,
pattern. It, as we all know, forms the model or pattern on which
the physical body is built— this physical body, composed mostly
of porosity, if the expression be pardoned ; the most unreal thing
we know, full of holes, foamy as it were. We will revert to this
thought later.
3. The third principle, commonly called the Life-Principle, is
Prana. Now this word is used here by our Philosophy in a general
sense. There are, as a matter of fact, a number of life-currents,
vital fluids. They have several names. One system gives the
number as three ; another as five, which is the commonly accepted
number ; another as seven ; another twelve, as is found in some
Upanishads ; and one old writer even gives them as thirteen.
4. Then there is the .Kama-principle; the word kdma means
desire. It is the driving or impelling force in the human economy ;
colorless, neither good nor bad, only such as the mind and soul
direct its use.
5. Then comes Manas ; the Sanskrit root of this word means to
think, to cogitate, to reflect— mental activity, in short.
6. Then comes Buddhi, or the Spiritual Soul, the vehicle or
carrier of the highest principle of all, the Atman. Now Buddhi
comes from a Sanskrit root budh. This root is commonly trans­
lated, to enlighten, but a better translation is toawaken and, hence,
to understand ; Buddha, the past participle of this root is applied
to one who is spiritually awakened, no longer living a living death,
but awakened to the spiritual influence from within or from
‘ a b o v e B u d d h i is the principle in us which gives us spiritual
consciousness, and is the vehicle of the most high part of man.
This highest part is the Atman.
7. This principle (Atman) is a universal one ; but during in­
carnations its lowest parts, if we can so express it, take on attri­
butes, because it is linked with the Buddhi as the Buddhi is
linked with the Manas, as the Manas is linked to the Kama, and
so on down the scale.
Atman is also sometimes used of the Universal Self or Spirit
which is called in the Sanskrit writings Brahman (neuter), and the
Brahman or Universal Spirit is also called the Paramatman, a
compound Sanskrit term meaning the highest or most universal
Atman. The root of Atman is hardly known. Its origin is un­
certain, but the general meaning is that of self.
Beyond Brahman is the Para-Brahman. Para is a Sanskrit
word meaning beyond. Note the deep philosophical meaning of
this; there is no attempt here to limit the Illimitable, the
12 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Ineffable, by adjectives ; it simply means beyond the Brahman.
In the Sanskrit Vedas and in the works deriving therefrom and
belonging to the Vedic literary cycle, this beyond is called That,
as this world of manifestation is called This. Other very expres­
sive terms are Sat, the R eal; and A sat, the Unreal or the mani­
fested universe ; in another sense Asat means ‘ not Sat4
', i.e., even
beyond (higher than) Sat.
Now this Para-Brahman is intimately connected with Mula-
prakriti— a word we shall explain in a moment. Their interaction
and intermingl^g cause the first nebulous thrilling, if the words
will pass, of the Universal Life when spiritual desire first arose
in it in the beginnings of things. Such is the old teaching, employ­
ing of necessity the old anthropocentric tropes, clearly understood
to be only human metaphors, human similes ; for the conceptions
of the Seers of ancient times, their teachings, their doctrines, had
to be told in human language to the human mind.
Now then, a man can reach inward, going ‘ upward ’ step by
step, climbing higher as his spiritual force and power wax greater
and more subtil, until he reaches beyond his normal faculties,
and steps beyond the ‘ Ring Pass Not ’, as Helena Petrovna Blavat-
sky calls it in her Secret Doctrine. Where and what is this ‘ Ring
Pass Not ’ ? It is, at any period of man’s consciousness, the
utmost reach that his spirit can attain. There he stops, and looks
into the Beyond— into the Unmanifested from which we ca!me.
The Unmanifest is in u s; it is the Inmost of the inmost in our
souls, in our spirits, in our essential beings. We can reach towards
it. We can actually reach it never.
Now, where is Reality ? Is the Real, is the True, to be found in
these lower vestures of materiality ? Or is it to be found in the
State of Being from which everything came ?
The ancient Stoics in their really wonderful philosophy taught,
and the same teaching originated in the esoteric philosophy of
Hellas or Greece— as found later in the Neo-Platonic teachings—
these ancient Stoics taught that Truth can be known ; that the
most real thing, the greatest thing, was to be found in ever-
receding vistas, as the Spirit of man strived inward, ^nd beyond,
veil after veil falling away as the Wise Man (their technical term)
advances in the evolution of his soul. They taught that the
material universe was illusory precisely as our Teachers tell us of
the M&ya; and the Stoic understood (and this teaching is our
own) that this apparently dense, gross, heavy, material universe
is phenomenally unreal, mostly built up of holes, so to say— a
teaching which is beginning to be re-echoed even to-day in the
writings and thoughts of the more intuitional of our scientists.
The Stoics taught that the ether was denser than the most dense
material thing, fuller than the most full material thing— using
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 13
humam words, of course. To us, with our human eyes, trained
only to see objects of illusion, it appears to be the most diaphanous,
the thinnest, the most ethereal. What was the Reality, the Real,
behind this All ? The real thing ? They said it was God, Life of
Life, Truth of Truth, Root of Matter, Root of Soul, Root of Spirit.
When the Stoic was asked : What is God ? he nobly answered i
What is God not ?
Turning now to the Ancient Wisdom of Hindusthan, to the
Upanishads, let us take from the Chhdndogya-Upanishad, mainly
in the sixth lecture, a conversation between a father and his son.
Hearken to the Ancient Wisdom, going back far beyond the time
when the ancient Brahmanic teachings and the Brahmanas became
what they are today— to the time when real men taught real
things. The son asks :
“ If a man who has slept in his own house, rises and goes to another
village, he knows that he has come from his own house. Why then do
people not know that they have come from the Sat ? ” [A Sanskrit
word meaning the Real, the Ineffable of which we have spoken.]
And the father teaches his son as follows :
“ These rivers, my son, run, the eastern towards the east, the
western towards the west. They go from sea to sea. They become
indeed sea. And as those rivers, when they are in the sea, do not
know, I am this or that river,
“ In the same manner, my son, all these creatures, when they have
come from the True [that is the Real] know not that they have come
from the True [on account of the Maya]. Whatever these creatures
are here, whether a lion, or a wolf, or a boar, or a worm, or a midge,
or a gnat, or a mosquito, that they become again and again.”
Now listen:
“ That which is that subtil essence, in it all that exists has its self.
It is the True, It is the Self, and thou, O Svetaketu, art it.” “ Please,
Sir, inform me still more,” said the son. “ Be it so, my child,” the
father replied.
Now the son is supposed to ask, “ How is it that living beings,
when in sleep or death they are merged again in the Sat [that is,
the Real], are not destroyed ? Waves, foam, and bubbles arise
from the water, and when they merge again in the water, they are
gone/'
“ If someone were to strike at the root of this large tree, here,”
says the father, “ it would bleed, but live. If he were to strike at its
stem, it would bleed, but live. If he were to strike at its top, it would
bleed, but live. Pervaded by the living Self that tree stands firm,
drinking in its nourishment and rejoicing ;
c
14 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
? But if the life (the living Self) leaves one of its branches, that
branch withers; if it leaves a second, that branch withers; if it
leaves a third, that branch withers. If it leaves the whole tree, the
whole tree withers. In exactly the same manner, my son, know this.”
Thus he spoke :
" This (body) indeed withers and dies when the living self has left
i t ; the living Self dies not. That which is that subtil essence, in it
all that exists has its self. It is the True. It is the Self, and thou,
O Svetaketu, art it.”
“ Please, Sir, inform me still more,” said the son. “ Be it so, my
child I” the father replied. “ Fetch me from thence a fruit of the
Nyagrodha tree.” “ Here is one, Sir.” " Break it.” “ It is broken,
Sir.” " What do you seethere ? ” “ These seeds, almost infinitesimal.”
" Break one of them.” “ It is broken, Sir.” “ What do you seethere ?”
" Not anything, Sir.” The father said: “ My son, that subtil essence
which you do not perceive there, of that very essence this great
Nyagrodha tree exists. Believe it, my son. That which is the subtil
essence, in it all that exists has its self. It is the True. It is the Self,
and thou, 0 Svetaketu, art it.” “ Please, Sir, inform me still more,”
said the son. “ Be it so, my child,” the father replied.
“ Place this salt in water, and then wait on me in the morning.”
The son did as he was commanded. The father said to him : “ Bring
me the salt, which you placed in the water last night.” The son having
looked for it, found it not, for, of course, it was melted. The father,
said : “ Taste it from the surface of the water. How is it ? ” The
son replied : “ It is salt.” " Taste it from the middle. How is it ? ”
The son replied : “ It is salt.” " Taste it from the bottom, how is
it ? ” The son replied : “ It is salt.” The father said : “ Throw it
away and then wait on me.” He did so; but salt exists for ever.
Then the father said : “ Here also, in this body, forsooth, you do not
perceive the True [Sat], my son ; but there indeed it is.
” That which is the subtil essence [that is, the saltiness of the salt],
in it all that exists has its self. It is the True. It is the Self, and thou,
O Svetaketu, art it.” “ Please Sir, inform me still more,” said the
son. “ Be it so, my child,” the father replied. (Translation by Max
Muller).
Let us turn to another part of this Upanishad, to the eighth
lecture. And we read as follows : “ Harih, Om.” Hari is the
name of several Deities— of Siva, and Vishnu,— but here, appar­
ently, it is used for Siva, which, as our first Teacher has taught
us, is pre-eminently the divine protector of the mystic occultist.
‘ Om ' is a word considered very holy in the Brahmanical litera­
ture. It is a syllable of invocation, and its general usage, as
elucidated in the literature treating of it, which is rather volumin­
ous, for this word ‘ Om ' has attained to almost divinity, is that
it should never be uttered aloud, or in the presence of an out­
sider, a foreigner, or a non-initiate, but it should be uttered in
the silence of one's heart, in the intimacy of one's inner closet.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 15
We alsb have reason to believe, however, that it was uttered, and
uttered aloud in a monotone by the disciples in the presence of
their Teacher. This word is always placed at the beginning of
any scripture that is considered of unusual sanctity.
The teaching is, that prolonging the uttering of this word, both
of the 0 and the M, with the mouth closed (precisely as the
Teacher has taught us to do it in this School), it re-echoes in and
arouses vibration in the skull, and affects, if the aspirations be
pure, the different nervous centers of the body for great good.
The Brähmanas say that it is an unholy thing to utter this
word in any place which is unholy. I now read :
There is this city of Brahman [that is, the heart and the body],
and in it the palace, the small lotus (of the heart), and in it that small
ether.
The Sanskrit word which Müller, the translator, has not given
here for ' small ether \ doubtless because he knew not how to
translate it, is antarakaia, a compound Sanskrit word meaning
within the Äkäia. He called it ‘ small ether', doubtless because he
knew not how to translate it— too difficult. I read again :
Now what exists within that small ether, that it is to be sought for,
that is to be understood. And if they should say to him: " Now
with regard to that city of Brahman, and the palace in it, i.e.t the
small lotus of the heart, and the small ether within the heart, what
is there within it that deserves to be sought for, or that is to be under­
stood ? ”
Then he should say : " As large as this ether (all space) is, so large
is that ether within the heart. Both heaven and earth are contained
within it, both fire and air, both sun and moon, both lightning and
stars ; and whatever there is of him (the Self) here in the world, and
whatever is not [i.e., ‘ whatever has been or will be ’ says Max Müller],
all that is contained within it."
And if they should say to him : "If everything that exists is con­
tained in that city of Brahman, all beings and all desires (whatever
can be imagined or desired), then what is left of it, when old age
reaches it and scatters it, or when it falls to pieces ? "
Then he should say : "B y the old age of the body, that (the ether,
or Brahman within it) does not age ; by the death of the body, that
(the ether, orthe Brahman within it) is not killed. That (the Brahman)
is the true Brahma-city (not the body). In it all [true] desires are
contained. It is the Self, free from sin, free from old age, from death
and grief, from hunger and thirst, which desires nothing but what it
ought to desire, and imagines nothing but what it ought to imagine.
Now as here on earth people follow as they are commanded, and
depend on the object which they are attached to, be it a country or
a piece of land,
" And, as here on earth, whatever has been acquired by exertion,
perishes, so perishes whatever is acquired for the next world by
16 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
sacrifices and other good actions performed on earth. Those who
depart from hence without having discovered the Self and those
true desires, for them there is no freedom in all the worlds. But
those who depart from hence, after having discovered the Self and
those true desires, for them there is freedom in all the worlds.”
C H A P T E R III
THE DOCTRINE OF MAYA : OBJECTIVE IDEALISM THE BASIS OF
MORALS .
* ROOTED IN THE SPIRITUAL UNITY— THE DIVINITY
— OF THE ALL. THE SELF AND THE “ SELVES
M&y& or illusion is an element which enters into all finite things, for everything
that exists has only a relative, not an absolute, reality, since the appearance
which the hidden noumenon assumes for any observer depends upon his power
of cognition. To the untrained eye of the savage, a painting is at first an unmean­
ing confusion of streaks and daubs of color, while an educated eye sees instantly
a face or a landscape. Nothing is permanent except the one hidden absolute
existence which contains in itself the noumena of all realities. The existences
belonging to every plane of being, up to the highest Dhyfln-Chohans, are, in
degree, of the nature of shadows cast by a magic lantern on a colorless screen ;
but all things are relatively real, for the cogniser is also a reflection, and the
things cognised are therefore as real to him as himself. Whatever reality things
possess must be looked for in them before or after they have passed like a flash
through the material world ; but we cannot cognise any such existence directly,
so long as we have sense-instruments which bring only material existence into
the field of our consciousness. Whatever plane our consciousness may be acting
in, both we and the things belonging to that plane are, for the time being, our
only realities. As we rise in the scale of development we perceive that during
the stages through which we have passed we mistook shadows for realities, and
the upward progress of the Ego is a series of progressive awakenings, each
advance bringing with it the idea that now, at last, we have reached “ reality " ;
but only when we shall have reached the absolute Consciousness, and blended our
own with it, shall we be free from the delusions produced by MAyA.
T h e Secret D o ctrin e (H. P. Blavatsky), I, 39, 40.
The Universe is called, with everything in it, MAy a , because all is temporary
therein, from the ephemeral life of a fire-fly to that of the Sun. Compared to
the eternal immutability of the One, and the changelessness of that Principle, the
Universe, with its evanescent ever-changing forms, must be necessarily, in the
mind of a philosopher, no better than a will-o’-the-wisp. Yet, the Universe is
real enough to the conscious beings in it, which are as unreal as it is itself.
I b id ., I, 274.
I
N taking up again this evening our study of The Secret
Doctrine at the point we reached a fortnight ago, I open
Helena Petrovna Blavatsky’s book, the first volume, at
page 17, and read the third fundamental postulate— at least
a portion of i t :
The fundamental identity of all Souls with the Universal Over-Soul,
the latter being itself an aspect of the Unknown Root; and the obli­
gatory pilgrimage for every Soul— a spark of the former—through the
Cycle of Incarnation (or “ Necessity ”) in accordance with Cyclic and
Karmic law, during the whole term. In other words, no purely
spiritual Buddhi (divine Soul) can have an independent (conscious)
existence before the spark which issued from the pure Essence of the
Universal Sixth principle— or the o v e r -s o u l —has (a) passed through
17
18 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
every elemental form of the phenomenal world of that Manvantara,
and (b) acquired individuality, first by natural impulse, and then by
self-induced and self-devised efforts (checked by its Karma), thus
ascending through all the degrees of intelligence, from the lowest to
the highest Manas, from mineral and plant, up to the holiest archangel
(Dhykni-Buddha).
Paul, the Apostle of the Christians " to the Gentiles ”, as they
call him, according to the Christian Gospels in Acts, xvii, verses
23-28, spoke to an assembly of the Athenians on Mars Hill, com­
monly called the Areopagus, and he said the following (the transla­
tion being ours) :
For as I passed by and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with
this inscription : “ To the Unknowable God.” For in It we live and
move and have our being, as certain also of your own poets have said,
" For we are also of Its line.”
The poets of whom Paul speaks were probably Cleanthes the
Stoic, and Aratus. It is perhaps well to mention that the sense
of ‘ Unknowable ’, as used in connexion with this word Agnostos,
is that employed by Homer, by Plato, and by Aristotle. This
Greek word Agnostos also permits the translation ‘ unknown',
but merely because the Unknown in this connexion is the
Unknowable.
The Athenians had raised an altar to the Ineffable, and with
the true spirit of religious devotion they left it without further
qualification; and Paul, passing by and seeing it, thought he
saw an excellent chance to ‘ make hay while the sun shone ’, so
to say, and claimed the Unknowable to which this altar had
been raised, as the Jewish God, Jehovah.
A fortnight ago, following the Teacher’s instructions, we stated
how it was that man could form some conception of that Ineffable
Principle of which Helena Petrovna Blavatsky speaks on pages
14-19 of her Secret Doctrine, as being the first of the three funda­
mental postulates, necessary in order to understand the true
teachings of the Esoteric Wisdom ; and we saw that man has in
himself, as was then said, a faculty transcending the ordinary
human intellectual power— something in .him by which he can
raise himself upwards or, perhaps better, inwards, towards the
Inmost Center of his own being, which in very truth is that
Ineffable : from It we came, back to It we are journeying through
the aeons of time.
All the ancient philosophers taught the truth concerning this
same fundamental principle, each in his own way, each with
different terms, each in the language of the country where it was
promulgated, but always there was taught the central truth:
that in the inmost being of man there lives a divinity, and this
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 19
divinity is the offspring of the Highest, and that man can becdme
a God in the flesh or he can sink— as the Teacher’s words have
told us this evening— lower even than the common average of
humanity, so that he becomes at first obsessed or beset, and
finally possessed by the daemons of his own lower nature and
by those df the lower sphere ; and by these particular daemons
we mean the elemental forces of life, of chaotic life, or of the
material sphere of being.
Again, how is it that man cannot see these truths intimately and
immediately ? We all know the answer is, on account of the
illusion under which his mind labors, the illusion which is a part
of himself, not cast upon him from the outside: he sees, for
instance, and his mind reacts to the vision, and the reaction is
conducted along the lines of the illusion, which, taking the ancient
Sanskrit word, our first Teacher has called Maya.
This is a technical term in the ancient Brahmanical philosophy.
Let us examine its root. What does the word Maya come from ?
It comes from a Sanskrit root md; the meaning of md is to
measure, and by a trope of speech— that is by a figure of speech—
it comes to mean to effect, or toform, and hence to limit. There is
an English word mete, meaning to measure out, from the same
Indo-European root. It is found in the Anglo-Saxon as the root
met, it is found in the Greek as med, and it is found in the Latin
also in the same form.
Now Maya, as a technical term, has come to mean— ages ago
in the wonderful Brahmanical philosophy it was understood very
differently from what it is now usually understood to be— the
fabrication by man’s mind of ideas derived from interior and
exterior impressions, and hence the illusory aspect of man’s
thoughts as he considers and tries to interpret and understand
life and his surroundings— and thence was derived the sense
which it technically bears, illusion. It does not mean that the
exterior world is non-existent; if it were, it obviously could not
be illusory; it exists, but is not. It is ‘ measured out ’ or it
stands out to the human spirit as a mirage. In other words, we
do not see clearly and plainly and in their reality the vision and
the visions which our mind and senses present to the inner life
and eye.
The familiar illustrations of Maya in the Vedanta, which is the
highest form that the Brahmanical teachings have taken, and
which is so near to our own teaching in many respects, were such
as follows : A man at eventide sees a coiled rope on the ground,
and springs aside, thinking it a serpent. The rope is there, but
no serpent.
Another illustration is what is called the ‘ horns of the hare ’.
Now the animal called the hare has no horns, but when it also
20 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
is seen at eventide its long ears seem to project from its head in
such fashion that it appears even to the seeing eye as being a
creature with horns. The hare has no horns, but there is then
in the mind an illusory belief that an animal with horns exists
there.
That is what Maya means: not that a thing seen does not
exist, but that we are blinded and our mind perverted by our
own thoughts and our own imperfections, and do not as yet
arrive at the real interpretation and meaning of the world, of the
universe around us. By ascending inwardly, by rising up, by
inner aspiration, by an elevation of soul, we can reach upwards
or rather inwards toward that plane where Truth abides in
fullness.
Bernard of Clairvaux, the French mystic of the Middle Ages,
said that one way of doing this, and he spoke truly, was by
' emptying the mind ’, pouring out the trashy stuff it contains,
the illusory beliefs, the false views, the hatreds, suspicions, care­
lessness, etc., and that by emptying out all this trash, the temple
within is cleansed, and the light from the God within streams
forth into the soul— a wonderful figure of thought for a Christian
Mystic, but a true one.
It may be asked : What relationship has our wonderful philo­
sophy to the many so-called idealistic systems of Europe, par­
ticularly in Germany, and represented by Bishop Berkeley in
Britain ? The answer is that there are points of contact, naturally,
because the men who evolved these systems of philosophy were
earnest men, and no man can earnestly think and strive upwards
without arriving at some visions of truth, some faint perceptions
of the inner life— but none of the systems of idealism which they
taught is exactly the idealism; which Theosophy is. Theosophy is
not an absolute idealism, it does not teach that the external
universe is absolutely non-existent and that all external phe­
nomena merely exist in the mind.
Theosophy is not exactly either the idealism of Kant nor the
wonderful pessimistic idealism of Schopenhauer— wonderful as
this great thinker was, and wonderful precisely because he
derived his knowledge (and confessed it openly) from the Orient.
The idealism of Theosophy is nearest to the philosophy of the
German philosopher, von Schelling, who taught (principally) that
truth was to be perceived by receding inwards and taking it from
the Spirit, and that the outward world is ‘ dead mind ’ or perhaps
rather inert mind— not the mind of the thinker obviously, but
the mind of the Deity. Now this is called ‘ objective idealism ’
because it recognises the external object as having existence:
it is not non-existent, as absolute idealism would put it. Schell-
ing’s ideas come nearest but by no means equal the grandiose
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY si
teaching which our great Teachers have taught us is the
Truth.
Helena Petrovna Blavatsky says on page 631 of the first volume
of The Secret Doctrine :
Esoteric ^philosophy, teaching an objective Idealism—though it
regards the objective Universe and all in it as Mdyd, temporary
illusion—draws a practical distinction between collective illusion,
Mahdmdyd, from the purely metaphysical standpoint, and the objec­
tive relations in it between various conscious Egos so long as this
illusion lasts.
The teaching, as all older students of the Esoteric School know
— and I believe that many of them are here present this evening—
is that Maya is thus called from the action of Miilaprakriti, or
nxtf-nature, the co-ordinate principle of that other line of co­
active consciousness which we call Parabrahman. We remember
that we discussed these questions at our former meeting, and we
say that from the moment when manifestation begins, it acts
dualistically, that is to say, that everything in Nature from that
point onwards is crossed by pairs of opposites, such as long and
short, high and low, night and day, good and evil, consciousness
and non-consciousness, etc.,— and that all these things are essen­
tially mayic or illusory— real while they last, but the lasting is
not eternal. It is through and by these pairs of opposites that
the self-conscious soul learns Truth.
What is the basis of morals ? This is the most important ques­
tion that can be asked of any system of thought. Is morality
based on the dicta of man ? Is morality based on the conviction
in most men's hearts that for human safety it is necessary to have
certain abstract rules which it is merely convenient to follow ?
Are we mere opportunists ? or is morality, ethics, based on Truth,
which it is not merely expedient for man to follow, but needful,
necessary ? Surely upon the latter !
And in the third Fundamental Postulate which we read at the
opening of our study this evening, we find, as was before said, the
very elements, the very fundamentals, of a system of morality
greater than which, profounder than which, more persuasive than
which, perhaps, it would be impossible to imagine anything.
On what, then, is morality based ? And by morality I mean not
merely the opinion which some pseudo-philosophers have, that
morality is more or less that which is ‘ good for the community \
based on the mere meaning of the Latin word mores, ‘ good cus­
toms ', as opposed to bad. N o! morality is that instinctive hunger
of the human heart to do righteousness, to do good to every man
because it is good and satisfying and ennobling to do so.
When man realizes that he is one with all that is, inwards and
outwards, high and low ; that he is one with them, not merely
22 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
as members of a community are one, not merely as individuals
of an army are one, but like the molecules of our own flesh, like
the atoms of the molecule, like the electrons of the atom, com­
posing one unity— not a mere union but a spiritual unity— then he
sees Truth.
Everyone of us belongs to, and is an inhering part of, that
Sublime and Ineffable Mystery— the A ll— which contains and
is individual and spiritual unity.
We have all of us one inward universal Self, and each one has
also his individual ego. The ego springs from the Self and the
Self is the Ineffable, the Inmost of the Inmost, one in all of us—
giving each one of us that sense of selfhood ; although by exten­
sion of meaning we also speak, and properly speak, of the ' lower
self ’, because this is a tiny ray from the Highest. Even the evil
man, as our present great Teacher has taught us, has in himself
not merely the spark of the divine, but the very ray of divinity
itself : he is both the selfish ego and the Universal Self.
Why then are we taught that when we attain selflessness, we
attain the Divine ? Precisely because selflessness is the attribute
of the Paramatman, the Universal Self, where all personality
vanishes. Paramatman is a Sanskrit compound, meaning highest
or supreme self.
If we examine our own spirits, if we reach inwards, if we stretch
ourselves inwards, as it were, towards the Inmost, every one of us
may know that as he goes farther, farther, farther in, the self
becomes selfless, the light becomes pure glory.
What a thought, that in the heart of each one of us there
dwells, there lives, the Ever-Unfolding, the Constant, the Eternal,
the Changeless, knowing no death, knowing no sorrow, the very
divinity of all! How it dignifies human life ! What courage does
it give to us ! How does it clear away all of the old moldy super­
stitions I What unspeakable visions of Reality, of the Truth, do
we obtain when we go inwards, after having emptied the mind,
as Bernard says, of all the mental trash that encumbers it I
These are the doctrines of our Teachers; our present Outer
Head is telling us it daily, hinting at it in this way and in that
way, using these words and those words, taking the opportunity
on every occasion that presents itself to awaken us, to instil these
eternal truths into us.
When man has reached the state where he realizes this and has
so ' emptied his mind ’ that it is filled only with the Self Itself,
with the selfless selfhood of the Eternal— what did the ancients
call this state ? What did they call such a man himself ? They
called the state, ‘ Bodhi ’ ; and they called the human, ‘ Buddha ’ ;
and the organ in and by which it was manifested, ‘ Buddhi’.
All these words came from a Sanskrit root, meaning to awaken.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 23
When iftan has awakened from the living death in which we live,
when he has cast off the toils of mind and flesh and, to use the old
Christian term, has put on the ‘ garments of eternity', then he has
awakened, he is a Buddha. And the ancient Brahmanical teachings,
found today even in the Vedanta, state that he has become one
with— not *absorbed ’ as is constantly translated— but has become
one with the Self of selves, with the Paramatman, the Supreme
Self.
Hearken a moment to the wisdom of the ancient Orient, not the
voice of modern Brahmanism (excepting the Vedanta) but to a
book which was ancient before our ancestors knew anything
higher than the quasi-barbaric ideas which Europe had two
thousand years ago.
We read from the Chh&ndogya-Upanishad, one of the most
important of the 108 or more Upanishads. The very word
‘ Upanishad ’ signifies ‘ Esoteric treatise ’. We read from the
eighth lecture, seventh, eighth, and ninth sections. They con­
tain such truth that the Teacher has permitted us to take up our
time in reading it.
“ Prajapati said ”— we interrupt by saying that Prajapati is a
Sanskrit word meaning governor or lord or master of progeny.
The word is applied to many of the Vedic gods, but in particular
to Brahma— that is to say the third step from Parabrahman— the
evolver-creator, the first and most recondite figure of the triad
consisting of Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva. Brahma is the Emanator
or Evolver, Vishnu the Sustainer or Preserver, and Siva, which
may be translated euphemistically perhaps as ' beneficent ’, the
Regenerator. This name is very obscure. However :
Prajapati said : " The Self which is free from sin, free from old age,
from death and grief, from hunger and thirst, which desires nothing
but what it ought to desire, and imagines nothing but what it ought
to imagine, that it is which we must search out, that it is which we
must try to understand. He who has searched out that Self and
understands it, obtains all worlds and all desires.”
We interrupt to ask why ? Because this Self of selves, this
Inmost, is all worlds : it is All, it is Everything. Now to quote :
The Devas [gods] and Asuras [demons] both heard these words,
and said: “ Well, let us search for that Self by which, if one has
searched it out, all worlds and all desires are obtained.”
Thus saying Indra went from the Devas, Virochana from the Asuras,
and both, without having communicated with each other, approached
Prajapati, holding fuel in their hands, as is the custom for pupils
approaching their master.
They dwelt there as pupils for thirty-two years. Then Prajapati
asked them: " For what purpose have you dwelt here ? ”
24 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
They replied: “ A saying of yours is being repeated, Viz. ‘ the
Self which is free from sin, free from old age, from death and grief,
from hunger and thirst, which desires nothing but what it ought to
desire, and imagines nothing but what it ought to imagine, that it is
which we must search out, that it is which we must try to understand.
He who has searched out that Self and understands it,, obtains all
worlds and all desires.* Now we both have dwelt here because we
wish for that Self.**
Praj&pati said to them : “ The person that is seen in the eye, that is
the Self. This is what I have said. This is the immortal, the fearless,
this is Brahman.**
Interrupting : the Self that is seen in the eye is a figure of speech
not infrequently found in the ancient Sanskrit writings ; it signi­
fies that sense of an indwelling presence that one sees when he
looks into the eyes of another.
They asked : “ Sir, he who is perceived in the water, and he who is
perceived in a mirror, who is he ? *
*
He replied : “ He himself indeed is seen in all these.**
(Eighth Section) " Look at your Self in a pan of water, and whatever
you do not understand of your Self, come and tell me.'*
They looked in the water-pan. Then Prai&pati said to them:
“ What do you see ? *
*
They said : “ We both see the self thus altogether, a picture even
to the very hairs and nails."
Prajcipati said to them : “ After you have adorned yourselves, look
again into the water-pan.**
They, after having adorned themselves, having put on their best
clothes and cleaned themselves, looked into the water-pan.
Prajapati said : “ What do you see ? *
*
They said : “ Just as we are, well adorned, with our best clothes and
clean, thus we are both there, Sir, well adorned, with our best clothes
and clean."
Praj&pati said : “ That is the Self, this is the immortal, the fearless,
this is Brahman."
Then both went away satisfied imtheir hearts.
And Praj&pati, looking after them, said : “ They both go away
without having perceived and without having known the Self, and
whoever of these two, whether Devas or Asuras, will follow this
doctrine will perish."
Interrupting : they saw Maya and not the Self.
Now Virochana, satisfied in his heart, went to the Asuras and
preached that doctrine to them, that the self (the body) alone is to be
worshipped, that the self (the body) alone is to be served, and that
he who worships the self, and serves the self, gains both worlds, this
and the next.
Therefore they call even now a man who does not give alms here,
who has no faith, and offers no sacrifices, an Asura, for this is the
doctrine of Asuras. They deck out the body of the dead with perfumes,
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 2 5
flowers »and fine raiment by way of ornament, and think they will
thus conquer that world.
(Ninth Section) But Indra, before he had returned to the Devas,
saw this difficulty.
Interrupting : the difficulty now com es w hich Indra saw.
•
As this self (the shadow in the water) is well adorned, when the b od y
is well adorned, well dressed, when the body is well dressed, well
cleaned, if the body is well cleaned, that self will also be blind, if the
body is blind, lame, if the body is lame, crippled if the body is crippled,
and will perish in fact as soon as the body perishes. Therefore I see
no good in this (doctrine).
Taking fuel in his hand he came again as a pupil to Prajâpati.
Prajâpati said to him : “ Maghavat [Indra], as you went away with
Virochana, satisfied in your heart, for what purpose did you come
back ? ”
He said : “ Sir, as this self (the shadow) is well adorned, when the
body is well adorned, well dressed, when the body is well dressed,
well cleaned, if the body is well cleaned, that self will also be blind,
if the body is blind, lame if the body is lame, crippled if the body is
crippled, and will perish in fact as soon as the body perishes. There­
fore I see no good in this (doctrine).’’
“ So it is indeed, Maghavat,” replied Prajâpati ; " but I shall explain
him (the true Self) further to you. Live with me another thirty-two
years.”
Indra was able to see b eyon d the m aya of the personal self, and
therefore was searching for the R eal, for the True, the Self Itself.
The translation is M ax M idler's. It m ay be well to add in con ­
clusion that all translations w hich have been m ade and m ay
hereafter be m ade are m ade b y ourself, from any one o f the
ancient languages, and if any quotation is taken from another
translator, his nam e will be given.
CHAPTER IV
FROM PRIMORDIAL POINT TO UNIVERSE AND MAN. ’ HOW DOES
MANIFESTATION ARISE ? MANVANTARA AND PRALAYA.
The Scintillas are the " Souls,” and these Souls appear in the threefold form
of Monads (units), atoms, and gods— according to our teaching. ” Every atom
becomes a visible complex unit (a molecule), and once attracted into the sphere
of terrestrial activity, the Monadic Essence, passing through the mineral,
vegetable, and animal kingdoms, becomes man.” (Esoteric Catechism.) Again,
” God, Monad, and Atom are the correspondences of Spirit, Mind, and Body
(Atmfl, Manas, and Sthfila-Sarlra) in man.” In their septenary aggregation they
are the ” Heavenly Man ” (see Kabala for the latter term) ; thus, terrestrial man
is the provisional reflection of the Heavenly. . . . ” The Monads (Jivas) are the
Souls of the Atoms, both are a fabric in which the Chohans (Dhy&nis, gods) clothe
themselves when a form is needed.” (Esoteric Catechism.)
The Secret Doctrine (H. P. Blavatsky), I, 619.
Parabrahm (the One Reality, the Absolute) is the field of Absolute Conscious­
ness, i.e., that Essence which is out of all relation to conditioned existence, and
of which conscious existence is a conditioned symbol. But once that we pass
in thought from this (to us) Absolute Negation, duality supervenes in the contrast
of Spirit (or consciousness) and Matter, Subject and Object.
Spirit (or Consciousness) and Matter are, however, to be regarded, not as
independent realities, but as the two facets or aspects of the Absolute (Parabrahm)
which constitute the basis of conditioned Being whether subjective or objective.
Hence it will be apparent that the contrast of these two aspects of the
Absolute is essential to the existence of the ” Manifested Universe.” Apart from
Cosmic Substance, Cosmic Ideation could not manifest as individual conscious­
ness, since it is only through a vehicle of matter that consciousness wells up as
“ I am I,” a physical basis being necessary to focus a ray of the Universal Mind
at a certain stage of complexity. Again, apart from Cosmic Ideation, Cosmic
Substance would remain an empty abstraction, and no emergence of consciousness
could ensue.
The ” Manifested Universe,” therefore, is pervaded by duality, which is, as it
were, the very essence of its EX-istence as ” manifestation.” But just as the
opposite poles of subject and object, spirit and matter, are but aspects of the
One Unity in which they are synthesized, so, in the manifested Universe, there
is ” that ” which links spirit to matter, subject to object.
. This something, at present unknown to Western speculation, is called by the
occultists Fohat. It is the ” bridge ” by which the ” Ideas ” existing in the
” Divine Thought ” are impressed on Cosmic substance as the ” laws of Nature.”
Ibid., I, 15, 16.
B
EFORE we open our study of The Secret Doctrine this
evening, it should be said that the Teacher has asked
me to repeat what was before stated with reference to
the nature of these studies, that is, that they are a sim­
plification of The Secret Doctrine in the sense of an explanation
and unfolding of the meaning of the teachings that the book
contains ; and in order to achieve these ends, it will be of course
necessary to bring to bear upon these doctrines for comparison
and in order to show analogy or identity, lines of thought from
26
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 27
the great religions of the world and from the great minds of ancient
tim es; because these, in their essence, have sprung from the
central source of men’s thought and religion which we to-day
call Theosophy.
Yet before we can really embark upon the study of The Secret
Doctrine itsfelf, as a book, it will be necessary during the course
of our studies to clear from our path certain stumbling-blocks
which are in the way of each of us ; certain ideas and so-called
principles of thought which have been instilled into our minds
from childhood, and which, on account of the psychological
effect they have on our minds, really prevent us from grasping
the truths of Being that Helena Petrovna Blavatsky has so
masterly given us in The Secret Doctrine.
In addition, it will be necessary to investigate certain very
ancient principles of thought, and to penetrate more deeply into
the real meaning of the ancient religions and philosophies than
has ever been done in any modern books, because those books
have been written by men who know nothing about the Esoteric
Philosophy, men who were mostly rebels against the barren
ecclesiasticism of the Christian Church; who, in order to gain
freedom from those chains of ecclesiasticism, actually went too
far the other way, and saw nothing but priestcraft and evil-doing
in these old religions, and in the acts and teachings of the men
who taught them, priests, philosophers, or scientists.
We really, also, cannot understand The Secret Doctrine unless
we have made these preliminary studies. We may read it as a
book, as we would take down a book from the shelf in the public
library and read it, but in doing so we do not get the essence, the
heart, the core of Helena Petrovna Blavatsky’s meaning.
Another point always to keep in mind is, that we are, as the
Teacher has told us more than once in these meetings, actually
assembled here as fellow-students and members of the Inner
School— we are undertaking the study of the very doctrines which
formed the core of the heart of the teachings of the Mysteries
of ancient days. These Mysteries were divided into two general
parts, the Lesser Mysteries and the Greater.
The Lesser Mysteries were very largely composed of dramatic
rites or ceremonies, with some teaching; the Greater Mysteries
were composed of, or conducted almost entirely on the ground of,
study, and later were proved by personal experience in initiation.
In the latter was explained— among other things— the secret
meaning of the mythologies of the old religions, as for instance
the Greek.
The active and nimble mind of the Greeks produced a mythology
which for grace and beauty is perhaps without equal, but it
nevertheless is very difficult to explain; the Mysteries of Samo-
28 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
thrace and of Eleusis— the greater ones— explained among other
things what these myths meant. These myths formed the basis
of the exoteric religions; but note well that exotericism does
not mean that the thing which is taught exoterically is in itself
false, but merely that it is a teaching given without the key to i t :
such teaching is symbolic, illusory, touching on the truth : the
truth is there, but without the key to it— which is the esoteric
meaning— it yields no proper sense.
We open our study of The Secret Doctrine, this evening, by
reading from Vol. I, page 43, second and third paragraphs :
The Secret Doctrine teaches the progressive development of every­
thing, worlds as well as atoms ; and this stupendous development has
neither conceivable beginning nor imaginable end. Our " Universe ”
is only one of an infinite number of Universes, all of them “ Sons of
Necessity,” because links in the great Cosmic chain of Universes, each
one standing in the relation of an effect as regards its predecessor, and
being a cause as regards its successor.
The appearance and disappearance of the Universe are pictured
as an outbreathing and inbreathing of “ the Great Breath,” which is
eternal, and which, being Motion, is one of the three aspects of the
Absolute—Abstract Space and Duration being the other two. When
"the Great Breath ” is projected, it is called the Divine Breath, and is
regarded as the breathing of the Unknowable Deity—the One Existence
—which breathes out a thought, as it were, which becomes the Kosmos.
(See Isis Unveiled.) So also it is when the Divine Breath is inspired
again the Universe disappears into the bosom of “ the Great Mother,”
who then sleeps, “ wrapped in her invisible robes.”
A fortnight ago we were studying the question of Maya and the
relationship of the inner being of man to the Ineffable Essence;
it remains for us briefly to study how man, who has a personal
element in him, sprang forth from the very essence of imperson­
ality, if one may so call it. We can say at once that the Infinite
and Impersonal never becomes finite and personal. How, then,
does the spirit of man (already the first film over the face of the
Absolute, as it were) come into being ? Let us remember that
the manifestation of worlds, and, deductively, of the beings
who inhabit those worlds, took place in the extension of matter
popularly called ' space ’. A center, first, is ‘ localized ’— a very
poor word to use !— and is, de facto, not infinite, not eternal; if
it were, it could neither manifest nor come into outward existence,
for this is limitation. The Eternal, the Ineffable, the Infinite,
does not ever manifest at all, either partially or in toto. Words
themselves are misleading in treating of these subjects ; but what
can we say ? We must use human expressions in order to convey
our meaning.
How then arose manifestation ? The Ancient Wisdom tells
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 29
us the following : In the seeds of life remaining in space from a
planet which had previously run its Manvantara and had passed
into latency or Prakriti-Pralaya— there came (when the hour
struck for manifestation to begin again) into being in these seeds
of life the activity called in Sanskrit trishnd {thirst, if you like,
desire for manifestation), thus forming the center around which
was to gather a new universe. It had by karmic necessity its
particular place in space and was to produce its particular kind
of progeny : gods, monads, atoms, men, and the three elementary
— or elemental— kingdoms of the world as we see it around us :
from the karmic seeds which were brought over and which were
lying latent from the preceding Manvantara.
The Universe reimbodies itself (it does not ‘ reincarnate', which
means coming into flesh), following precisely the analogical lines,
mutatis mutandis, that the soul of man does in reincarnating,
making the necessary allowances for varying conditions. As
man is the product of his former life, or rather of his lives, so is a
universe, a solar system, a planet, an animal, an atom— the very
great as well as the so-called infinitesimal— the fruitage, the
flower, of what went before. Each of these bears its load of
karman precisely as the soul of man does.
The teachings relating to the evolving of the inner planes of
Being, which precede and produce the outer planes, are very
esoteric, as our Teachers have told us, and belong to a study
higher than we venture to approach at the present time, but we
can form some general idea of how it is done, as has already been
said, by analogy and by comparison with the life of man.
When manifestation begins, what is called ‘ duality' super­
venes. It would seem to be a procession something like this,
were we to symbolize it by a diagram. (See page 30).
Consider this uppermost straight line a hypothetical plane :
it may be, humanly speaking, immeasurable miles in depth or in
extension, but mere extension has nothing to do with the general
concept. Above it stretches the infinitude of the Boundless, and
below the diagram is the Boundless, and inwards through it is the
Boundless, interpenetrating everywhere ; but for purposes of
our present illustration we will say that it is ‘ above '.
Let us place anywhere we may please a point A, another one
A' here, and a third A" there. We have now reached, after a long
period of latency or pralaya has passed, a period of manifestation
or manvantara ; such a point as A, or A' or A", we will call the
Primordial Point, the first breaking-through into the cosmic
plane below; the spirit-force above arising into activity in the
seeds of being and forcing its way down into the lower life of
manifestation— not pushed nor moved by anything outside of itself
— is driven into manifestation by the karmic life of its ownessential
D
A
T
h
e
B
o
u
n
d
l
e
s
s
A'
o
ÏQ
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 31
being, by the thirst of desire or blossoming forth, like a fresh
upspringing in early summer of a flower, in which the tendency
in manifestation is outward. This first appearance is conceived
of in philosophy as the First or Primordial Point; this is the
name given to it in the Jewish Theosophy called the Qabbáláh.
From the moment that the Point, as it were the seed of life,
the germ of being— all these are but names for the one thing,
the spiritual atom, the spiritual monad, call it what you will—
from the moment that it bursts through into the lower life as it
were, differentiation or duality sets in and continues thencefor­
ward to the end of the Great Cycle, forming the two side-lines
of the diagrammatic triangle. We may call one A— B the Brahma
(masculine), and the other A— C the Prakriti or Nature (feminine).
Brahmá is frequently also called Purusha, a Sanskrit word
meaning Man, the Ideal Man, like the Qabbalistic Adám Qadmón,
the primordial entity of space, containing in Prakriti or Nature
all the septenary scales of manifested being.
At all times, from the very first instant when duality sets in,
there is an unceasing attraction between these two lines or poles,
and they join. Remember that this symbol is merely a paradigm,
that it is merely a paradigmatic scheme or representation.
Absolutely, it would be absurd to say that life and beings pro­
ceed into manifestation as geometric triangles only ; but we can
represent it symbolically to our minds in this fashion. When
these two join, the Father and the Mother, spirit (or Reality)
and illusion (or maya), Brahmá (or Purusha) and Prakriti (or
Nature), their union produces the Son. In the Christian scheme
they give the spiritual or primordial Son the name of Christos ;
in the Egyptian scheme Osiris and Isis (or her twin sister Neph-
thys— which is merely the more recondite side of Isis) produce
their son Horus, the spiritual Sun, physically the sun or the
Light-Bringer; and so similarly in the different schemes that
the ancient world has handed down to us.
From the interaction of these three, by inter-polar action, by
the spiritual forces working in and out, two other lines fall down­
wards— according to the mystical way in which this scheme of
emanation is taught— and they also join and form the square—
or the manifested Kosmos.
Now from the Central or Primordial Point is born or proceeds
the Sun of Life. By It and through It is our union with the
Ineffable. Man may be down here a physical being on earth,
or anywhere else a luminous, ethereal entity : but it matters not
where he is or what his body : for once the seven principles of
his being are in action, man the thinking entity, is produced,
linked by his seventh principle, and his sixth, with that Sun of
Life.
32 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
To every ‘ man ’ of the unnamable multitudes of self-conscious
beings belonging to this Kosmos or Universe, there extend
respectively upwards or downwards, two natures : one of which
is a ray of spirit connecting him with the divine of the Divinest,
and from that extending upwards in all directions and linking us
in every sense of the word with the Ineffable, thé Boundless,
which is, therefore, the core of our being, the center of our
essence.
The appearance and evolution of man as a human being on
this planet Terra, follow the same line of Nature’s wonderful
analogical working that a planet does in space, or a sun does
with its brothers of a solar system, the planets. Man, thus being
in very truth a child of Infinity, the offspring of the Ineffable,
has latent within himself the capacity of the Universe.
And on this fact depends what we have so often been told of
the getting of ‘ powers ’. The very method by which we do not
get them, the very way of missing and losing them, is to run after
them, strange as it may sound, because this is the impulse of
vanity and selfishness. If we, then, selfishly seek them, what do
we get ? We get the action of the lower powers upon us ; it is a
growing thirst for sensation which we do get, and this leads us
towards and into the nether abyss of Matter, the opposite pole of
the Boundless, if it is followed.
But in the great Soul who has passed by and thrown off this
thirst for personal acquisition, in whom the grasping spirit for
self is no longer dominant, who feels his Oneness with everything
that is, who feels that every human being, yea the very pismire
that laboriously crawls up a sand-knob only to tumble down again,
is himself—no metaphor but an actuality : a different body, but
the same life, the same essence, the same things latent in it as in
him— in him indeed lies the power of ascending the ladder of
Being, drawn by the link with the Highest in his innermost
nature. He and they are both filled full of latent powers and
forces, and he and they may become in time very Gods, blazing,
as it were, with power like the Sun ; and the only way is utter
selflessness, because selflessness, paradoxical as it may sound,
is the only way to the Self, the Self Universal. The personal
self shuts the door before us.
Of course we cannot crush out of our being the sense of self­
hood, nor is that desirable ; but in the lowest aspect it takes upon
itself the forms of all selfishness, until the being of the man
who follows the ‘ left-hand path ', as they call it, or the path
downwards, ends in what the early Christians— stealing from the
Greeks— called Tartarus, the place of disintegration.
When man ascends beyond the reach of matter, he has cast off
the bondage of Mâyâ, or illusion. Let us remember that when
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 33
manifestation opens, Prakriti becomes or rather is Maya; and
Brahma, the Father, is the spirit of the consciousness, or the
Individuality. These two are really one, yet they are also the two
aspects of the one Life-ray acting and reacting upon itself, much
as a man himself can say, “ l a m / He has the faculty of self-
analysis, or*self-division; all of us know it, we can feel it in our­
selves ; one side of us, in our thoughts, can be called the Prakriti
or the material element, or the Mayavi element, or the element of
illusion; and the other, the spirit, the individuality, the God
within.
Yet as man sees life, as he runs his eye down the scale of beings,
he sees it through Maya ; in fact, he is the child of Maya on one
side, as he is of the Spirit on the other. Both are in him. His
lesson is to learn that the two are one and that they are not
separate ; then he no longer is deceived. His lesson is to under­
stand that Maya, the great Deluder, is the famous snake or serpent
of antiquity, which leads us out from the ‘ Garden of Eden ’
(employing a Biblical metaphor), through experience and suffering
to learn what illusion is— and is not.
Also matter, which is the mayavi manifestation of Prakriti on
this plane (and I mean here physical matter), itself is not sub­
stantial. The most dense and rigid things we can think of, per­
haps, are the metals, and actually they are, perhaps, the most
porous, the most foamlike, the most evanescent, as seen from the
other or higher side of being, from the other side of the plane.
So well is this now beginning to be understood that even our more
intuitive scientists are telling us that ‘ space ’, which seems to
us so thin, and tenuous, is in reality more rigid than the hardest
steel. Why is it that electricity prefers metals as a path, to
common wood, or cotton-wool, or some other such thing ?
Before we go further, it would seem necessary to study a
little what we mean by the words Manvantara and Pralaya. Let
us take Manvantara first. This word is a Sanskrit compound,
and as such means nothing more than ‘ between two Manus ’ ;
more literally, ‘ Manu— between ’. ‘ Manu', or Dhyani-Chohan,
in the Esoteric System, is the entities collectively which appear
first at the beginning of manifestation and from which, like a
cosmic tree, everything is derived or born. Manu actually is the
(spiritual) tree of life of any Planetary Chain, of manifested being.
Manu is thus (in one sense) the third logos ; as the second is the
Father-Mother, the Brahma and Prakriti; and the first is what
we call the Unmanifest Logos, or Brahman (neuter) and its cosmic
veil Pradhana.
Pradhana is also a Sanskrit compound, meaning that which
is ‘ placed before ’ ; and from this, it has become a technical
term in philosophy, and means what we would call the first
34 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
filmy appearance of root-matter, ' placed before or rathex' around,
Brahman, as a Veil. Root-matter is mMa-prakritt, root-nature,
and corresponding to it as the other or active pole, is Brahman
(neuter). That from which the First or Unmanifest Logos pro­
ceeds is called Para-Brahman, and Mulaprakriti is Its Kosmic
Veil. Parabrahman is another Sanskrit compound, meaning
‘ beyond Brahman ’. Mfilaprakriti, again, as said above, is a
Sanskrit compound meaning mula— root, prakriti— nature.
First, then, the Boundless, symbolized by the O ; then Para­
brahman, and Mulaprakriti its other pole ; then lower, Brahman
and its Veil Pradhana; then Brahma-Prakriti or Purusha-
Prakriti (Prakriti being also maya); the manifested Universe
appearing through and by this la st: Brahma-Prakriti, Father-
Mother. In other words, the second logos, Father-Mother, is the
producing cause of manifestation through their son, which in a
Planetary Chain is Manu. A Manvantara, therefore, is the period
of activity between any two Manus, on any plane, since in any
such period there is a root-Manu at the beginning of Evolution,
and a seed-Manu at its close, preceding a Pralaya.
Pralaya : this is also a Sanskrit compound, formed of laya, from
a Sanskrit root li, and the prefix pra. What does It mean ? It
means to dissolve, to melt away, to liquefy, as when one pours
water upon a cube of salt or of sugar. The cube of salt or of sugar
vanishes in the water ; it dissolves, changes its form ; and this
may be taken as a figure, as a symbol, of what Pralaya is : a
crumbling away, a vanishing away of matter into something
else which is yet in it, and surrounds it, and interpenetrates it.
That is Pralaya, usually translated as the state of latency, state
of rest, state of repose, between two manvantaras or life-cycles.
If we remember distinctly the meaning of the Sanskrit word, our
minds take a new bent in direction, follow a new thought; we get
new ideas ; we penetrate into the arcanum of the thing that takes
place.
Now there are many kinds of Manvantaras ; also many kinds of
Pralayas. There are, for instance, the Universal Manvantara and
the Universal Pralaya, and these are called Prakritika, because
it is the pralaya or vanishing away, melting away, of Prakriti or
Nature. Then there is the solar pralaya. Sun in Sanskrit is
Sfirya, and the adjective from this is Saurya ; hence, the saurya-
pralaya, or the pralaya of the solar system. Then, thirdly, there
is the terrestrial or planetary pralaya. The Sanskrit word for
earth is Bhfimi, and the adjective corresponding to this is Bhau-
mika : hence, the bhaumika-pralaya. Then we can say that there
is the pralaya or death of the individual man. Man is purusha;
the corresponding adjective is paurusha: hence, the paurusha-
pralaya, or death of man. So, then, we have given examples of
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 35
various praiayas : first of the Prakritika, or dissolution of Nature ;
next the solar pralaya, the saurya; next the bhaumika or the
passing away of the earth ; and then the paurusha, or the death
of man. And these adjectives apply equally well to the several
kinds of Majivantaras, or life-cycles.
There is another kind of Pralaya which is called Nitya. In its
general sense, it means ‘ constant' or ' continuous and can be
exemplified by the constant or continuous change— life and death
— of the cells of our bodies— it is a state in which the entity, the
indwelling and dominating entity, remains, but its different
principles and rfipas undergo continuous change. Hence it is
called Nitya. It applies to the body of man, to the outer sphere
of earth, to the earth itself, to the solar system, and to all Nature.
It is likewise represented by a symbol that our first great
Teacher, H. P. Blavatsky, has given us from the Oriental Wisdom,
the out-breathing and in-breathing of Brahman. This symbol,
by the way, is not solely Indian. It is found in the ancient Egyp­
tian texts, where one or another of the Gods, Khnumu, for in­
stance, breathes forth from his mouth the cosmic egg. It is
also found alluded to in the Orphic Hymns, where the cosmic
serpent breathes forth as an egg the things which are to be, or
the future universe. Everywhere, especially where ancient religion
or philosophy has longest retained its hold, there do we find
the symbol of the cosmic egg. Religions of less age and of less
influence do not so often employ it. The cosmic egg was found as
a symbol in E gypt; it was found in Hinddsthan ; it was found
in Peru, where the ‘ Mighty Man', the Sanskrit Purusha, the Ideal
Man, the Paradigmatic Man, was called Manco Capac, and his wife
and sister was called Mama Oello, which means ‘ Mother-egg ';
these brought the universe into being, becoming later the sun and
the moon respectively.
Why did the Ancients symbolize the beginning of manifestation
under the form of an egg ? Let us ask : Is it not a fine symbol ?
As the egg producing the chick contains the germ of life (laid by
its mother, the hen, and fructified by the other pole of being) so
the cosmic egg, which is the Primordial Point of which we spoke
in the early part of our study this evening, also contains the germ
of life. The egg itself also can be called the germ of life, and the
germ of life within the egg can be called the inner germ— that
more subtil point which receives those impulses of which we have
spoken before, coming down from the highest center of com­
munication between the outward world and the inner, the lines
of inner magnetic action and reaction. And when the chick within
the egg is formed, it bursts its shell and comes forth into the light
of day, precisely as we saw was the case with the Primordial Point.
When the karmic hour had struck, it burst forth, as it were, into
36 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
other spheres of manifestation and activity. The Ancients,
carrying the figure still farther, even spoke of Heaven as a dome­
like affair, as the upper part of an egg-shell.
Let us think more deeply of these ancient symbols. The
Ancients were not fools. There is a deep meaning in these olden
figures of speech. Why did Homer speak of his Olympus, the
abode of Zeus and the Gods, as being brazen, like brass, one of the
hardest and most intractable things that the Greeks knew ? Why
did Hesiod speak of the same as made of iron ? Because they
realized that the life here in matter and of matter, was based upon
an evanescent substratum, and that the lower world of matter is,
as has been so often said, evanescent, foamy, full of holes, as it
were, and unreal.
CHAPTER V
THE ESOTERIC TEACHINGS AND THE NEBULAR THEORY.
GODS BEHIND THE KOSMOS : WHY NATURE IS IMPERFECT.
To make of Science an integral whole necessitates, indeed, the study of spiritual
and psychic, as well as physical, Nature. Otherwise it will ever be like the
anatomy of man, discussed of old by the profane from the point of view of his
shell-side and in ignorance of the interior work. . . .
. . . The duty of the Occultist lies with the Soul and Spirit of Cosmic Space,
not merely with its illusive appearance and behavior. That of official physical
science is to analyse and study its shell— the Ultima Thule of the Universe and
man, in the opinion of Materialism.
With the latter, Occultism has nought to do. It is only with the theories of
such men of learning as Kepler, Kant, Oersted, and Sir W. Herschel, who believed
in a Spiritual world, that Occult Cosmogony might treat, and attempt a satisfac­
tory compromise. But the views of those physicists differed vastly from the
latest modern speculations. Kant and Herschel had in their mind’s eye Specula­
tions upon the origin and the final destiny, as well as the present aspect, of the
Universe, from a far more philosophical and psychic standpoint; whereas modern
Cosmology and Astronomy now repudiate anything like research into the mys­
teries of being. The result is what might be expected : complete failure and in­
extricable contradictions in the thousand and one varieties of so-called scientific
theories, and in this theory as in all others.
The nebular hypothesis, involving the theory of the existence of a primeval
matter, diffused in a nebulous condition, is of no modern date in astronomy as
everyone knows. Anaximenes, of the Ionian school, had already taught that the
sidereal bodies were formed through the progressive condensation of a primordial
pregenetic matter, which had almost a negative weight, and was spread out
through Space in an extremely sublimated condition.
The Secret Doctrine (H. P. Blavatsky), I, 588-590.
W
ITH the Teacher's permission there are three points
which it would seem necessary to touch upon slightly,
before we begin our evening's study.
The first is with regard to the question of morals,
that is to say, right conduct based upon right views, right think­
ing. We have touched upon this matter at nearly every meeting
of this Lodge, because the line, the path, of duty— of right conduct
based upon right views— is the Path of all who would tread on­
ward to the Ancient Wisdom and to the Ancient Mysteries. Our
Teachers have told us this again and again, and the great thinkers,
philosophers, and religious men, of all ages, have told us the same
thing.
These meetings, as our present Teacher has told us so often,
are not for purposes of intellectual study only, nor to amuse
ourselves with abstruse and mystic knowledge; but mainly, firstly,
principally, for the purpose of gaining a right foundation for right
views, which shall govern human conduct. When we have this
37
38 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
foundation .we have the beginnings of all laws; we can affect the
world not only by our own views and by our own acts, but by
those of other members who will come in and swell our number;
and, further, we shall be able in time to affect for good even the
governments of the world, not directly and immediately perhaps,
but at least indirectly and in the course of time. All the horrible
things that perplex and confuse and distress mankind today arise
wholly, almost, out of a lack of right views, and hence, a lack of
right conduct. We have the testimony of the Greek and Roman
initiates and thinkers that the Ancient Mysteries of Greece taught
men, above everything else, to live rightly and to have a noble
hope for the life after death.
Next, the second point: in our last meeting we touched upon
the Ancient Mysteries in the ancient Mystery-Schools, and we
took as examples those of Greece, from which the Romans derived
their own Mysteries— but we touched upon one point only, the
mythological aspect; and this mythological aspect comprises
only a portion— a relatively small portion— of what was taught
in the Mystery-Schools, principally at Samothrace and at Eleusis.
At Samothrace was taught the same Mystery-teaching that was
current elsewhere in Greece, but here it was more developed and
recondite; and the foundation of these Mystery-teachings was
morals. The noblest and greatest men of ancient times in Greece
were initiates in the Mysteries of these two seats of esoteric
knowledge.
In other countries farther to the east they had other Mystery-
Schools or “ colleges ” , and this word “ college ” by no means
necessarily meant a mere temple or building ; it meant “ associa­
tion,” as in our modern word colleague, “ associate ”. The Teu­
tonic tribes of northern Europe, the Germanic tribes— which
included Scandinavia— had their. Mystery-colleges also; and
teacher and neophytes stood on the bosom of Mother-Earth, under
Father-Ether, the boundless sky, or in subterranean receptacles,
and taught and learned. We state here at once that the core, the
heart, the center, of the Ancient Mysteries was the abstruse
problems dealing with Death. These teachings we still have, and
when the Teacher says that it is time to give them out, they will be
forthcoming; she is the judge as to when this shall be.
The third point is with regard to the paradigms or diagrams
which we may find necessary to use from time to time in order to
illustrate certain teachings. Remember that these paradigms are
relative and changeable ; they are not hard and fast or absolute
things; this fact must be kept always clear in the mind, and
around these diagrams or paradigms the mind should never be
allowed to crystallize. Why ? Because any paradigm, any par­
ticular combination of geometrical lines, can illustrate different
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 39
thoughts or things, as, for instance, the paradigm of the triangle
from which hangs the square (as used at our last meeting) can
apply equally as well to the highest combined principle in man, the
spiritual-mental monad, as to the lower principles into which the
monad falls at the beginning of incarnation or manifestation, and
from whicfr it will resurrect when the first chimes of the pralayic
bells are heard in the AkaSic spaces.
We will now resume our study. We take up, as our general
theme, the same two paragraphs on p. 43 of Vol. I of The Secret
Doctrine, which we read at our last meeting : paragraphs one and
tw o:
The Secret Doctrine teaches the progressive development of every­
thing, worlds as well as atoms; and this stupendous development has
neither conceivable beginning nor imaginable end. Our " Universe ”
is only one of an infinite number of Universes, all of them “ Sons
of Necessity,” because links in the great Cosmic chain of Universes,
each one standing in the relation of an effect as regards its predecessor,
and being a cause as regards its successor.
The appearance and disappearance of the Universe are pictured as
an outbreathing and inbreathing of " the Great Breath,” which is
eternal, and which, being Motion, is one of the three aspects of the
Absolute—Abstract Space and Duration being the other two. When
the " Great Breath ” is projected, it is called the Divine Breath,
and is regarded as the breathing of the Unknowable Deity—the One
Existence—which breathes out a thought, as it were, which becomes
the Kosmos. (See Isis Unveiled.) So also is it when the Divine Breath
is inspired again the Universe disappears into the bosom of "the
Great Mother,” who then sleeps “ wrapped in her invisible robes."
It was the intention to take up this evening the dawn of mani­
festation as it is found in the “ Hebrew Book of Beginnings ” ,
called Genesis, and to study this and to show its similarity and
likeness, and the fundamental identity of truth on which it is
based, as compared with the other religions of the world. But in
view of the fact that we were obliged at our last study to touch
upon the first coming-into-being of the veil cast over the face of
the Ineffable, it would seem best this evening to undertake, if we
have time, a short sketch of what in science is called the Nebular
Theory, how far the esoteric teachings run with it, and where and
when they part from it.
The Nebular Theory, as originally taught in science by the
Frenchman Laplace— but derived by him from the great German
thinker and philosopher, Immanuel Kant— stated that the space
which is now occupied by the planets of the solar system, was
originally filled with a very tenuous form of matter, in a highly
incandescent (or burning) state. Let us say just here that this
particular theory of Laplace as regards incandescence, has never
40 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
been proved, that it is not subject in all respects to mathematical
demonstration, and cannot be, and that it itself, if taken as a
whole, forms one of the greatest proofs against the truth of the
nebular theory as it was then stated, and as it has since been modi­
fied in some degree by modern thinkers.
Laplace further stated that this nebula was in a condition of
slow rotation, or circular moving, in the same direction in which
the planets now move around in their orbits, and in the same
direction in which the planets and the sun now move around their
axes. In other words, the present orbital revolution and rotation
of the planets are derived from this mechanical, original, circular
motion of the primal nebula.
Laplace further stated that this hot, immense object cooled,
and as it cooled it shrank, according to a certain law of heat, and
this shrinking, according to a law of dynamics, increased the
velocity of rotation, and the momentum of any point on its sur­
face. Now, as everyone knows, the parts of a wheel which are
nearest the periphery, the circumference, move with the greatest
momentum, and the greatest speed, though no faster, in another
sense, than do the particles at the hub. This increase of rapidity
in whirling around grew so great that a time came when the
centrifugal force overcame the centripetal or cohesive force, and
then this whirling nebula threw off a ring, and this ring also con­
tinued going around, and condensing, and finally formed a sphere
or ball which became the outmost planet, Neptune. And so
progressively the other planets came into being, the core of the
nebula remaining as our sun. In brief, as the nebular body con­
tracted and condensed its matter, the same phenomenon occurred
again in the same way, and thus the second outermost planet,
Uranus, was thrown off, and so on until all the planets had come
into being as spheres. Now some of these tenuous, still nebulous
planets, by contracting and thus increasing their rotational
velocity, themselves evolved rings around themselves, which in
their turn were thrown off from their parent-planets, and following
the same course as their parent-planets, became spheres, which
thus became the satellites, the moons of the respective planets;
while the center of the original nebula condensed into the (sup­
posedly) incandescent or fiery ball which is the sun.
When H. P. Blavatsky first brought the Theosophical teachings
to the Western world, questions of cosmogony, or the beginning
and primal development of the universe, came much to the fore,
and she was asked, and her Teachers were also asked through her,
in what respect the nebular theory ran side by side with and
“ corroborated ” the exposition of the theory of the occultists,
the esoteric theory; and the answer then given was called “ an
evasive answer ” , It aroused criticism and some angry language.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 41
Why, i{ was asked, if the Teachers know these wonderful truths,
had not they illuminated the world with the splendor of their
teachings ? Why did they keep them and other things hid ? No
teaching can be bad for man, if it is true, it was argued. Which
was a very foolish argument, indeed, so far as it goes, because
many teachings are true, and are yet utterly unfit for the average
man to have. However, we are going to investigate that question
to-night.
The nebular theory, the Teachers said, was, in its main outlines,
and in certain respects only, fairly representative of what the
esoteric teaching was, but it yet, for all that, had vital defects;
and these defects they did not entirely specify nor did they fully
outline them ; but they gave clear hints where the defects lay and
what they were ; and they also gave a clear, logical, and concise
reason for their reticence, which was obligatory and unavoidable.
Now the main defect in the theory of Laplace was— as probably
the older students who are assembled here this evening know well
enough— that it was a purely mechanical, purely mechanistic,
purely materialistic hypothesis, in some respects uncorroborable
even by mathematics, and based upon nothing but the fact that
in the vast abysses of space, astronomers, investigating wastes
of stellar light, found nebulae and nebulosities, and, adopting
Kant’s idea, argued dogmatically upon it. But, nevertheless,
there was truth in the nebular theory— there was some truth.
Now what is that truth ? And what was the most vital defect ?
The most vital defect, first, was the fact— as hinted above— that it
(the theory) omitted all action of spiritual beings in the universe
as the drivers, the agents, the mechanics (or mechanicians) of
the mechanism which undoubtedly exists. We are taught that
the Esoteric Philosophy does not deny mechanical action in the
Universe, but declares that where there is mechanical action there
is government, or, specifically, mechanicians at work, producing
the movements of the mechanism, in accordance with Karman.
There must be “ law ’’-givers or " law ’’-makers or “ law
impulsors, if the expression may be used ; and behind these there
must be the Universal Life. In other words, the vital defect was
that this nebular theory omitted the first truth of all Being—
that the Gods were behind the Kosmos, spiritual Beings, spiritual
Entities— the name matters nothing. Not God, but Gods.
" Nature ” is imperfect, hence of necessity makes “ mistakes ” ,
because its action derives from hosts of Entities at work. What we
see around us all the time is proof of it. “ Nature ” is not perfect.
If it had sprung from the " hands of the Immutable Deity ” ,
hence perfect and immutable like its Parent, knowing no change,
it would be a Perfect Work. It is much to the contrary, as we
know, and its imperfections or “ mistakes ” arise from the fact
42 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
that the beings existing in and working in and controlling and
making nature extend in endless hierarchies from the Inmost of
the Inmost, from the Highest of the Highest, downwards for ever,
upwards for ever, in all degrees of imperfection and of perfection,
which is precisely what we see in the scenes of manifestation
surrounding us. Our intuition tells us the truth concerning this,
and we should trust it.
This was well known to the ancients. The Stoics expressed it
and taught it in their magnificent philosophy. The Stoics of
Rome and of Greece originally expressed it by what they called
Theocrasy. Theocrasy has a compound meaning— Theos, a god,
divine being, and krasis, meaning an intermingling— an inter­
mingling of everything in the universe, intermingling with every­
thing else, nothing possibly separable from the rest, the Whole.
It is the cardinal heresy of the Oriental religions to-day, notably
in that of the Buddhists, if a man thinks that he is separate or
separable from the universe. This is their cardinal heresy, the
most fundamental error that man can make. The early Christians
called it the “ sin against the Holy Ghost ” . If we look around us
and if we look within, we realize that we are one entity, as it were,
one great human host, one living tree of human life, woven in­
separably into and from Nature, the A ll.
The next defect of the nebular theory was that the nebula was
declared to be in its earliest stages incandescent, burning. The
esoteric teaching is that it is indeed glowing, but glowing with a
cold light, the same as, or similar to, that of the firefly, if you like.
There is no more heat in a nebula than there is in the light of the
firefly. This light in the nebula, this luminosity, is not from com­
bustion of any kind ; but, then, what is it from ? It is from the
indwelling Daivi-Prakriti, " divine nature or light ", in its mani­
festation on that plane, the same light which in sentient beings
manifests in a higher form as consciousness in all its degrees,
running from dull physical consciousness up through the soul and
the ego : through the self up into the Selfless Self of the Paramat-
man, or the “ Supreme Self ’’— a mere expression of convenience
as meaning the acme or summit of a Hierarchy, because really
there is no Supreme Self, which would mean a limit, hence finite­
ness. If there were, there would be a lowest self. Self is boundless,
endless, the very heart of being, the foundation and dimensionless
core of all that is.
Next, the third vital defect: The planets and the sun were not
evolved or born in the manner stated by the nebular theory. How
are the sun and the planets born ? (Let me say here by way of
parenthesis, that this subject should come much later in our
study, but there is a reason for referring to it now.) Every solar
or planetary body, the sun and planets in our solar system, and
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 43
analogically (that is, by analogy), everywhere else, is the child or
rather the result or reimbodiment of a former cosmic entity, which,
upon entering into its pralaya, its Prakritika-pralaya— the dis­
solution of its lower principles— at the end of its long life-cycle,
exists in space in the higher activity of its spiritual principles, and
in the dispersion of its lowest principles, which latter latently
exist in space as Skandhas, in what our Teachers have taught us
is called in Sanskrit a toya-condition, from the root li, referred to
in our last meeting, meaning to dissolve or to vanish away ; hence,
a laya-center is a “ point of disappearance ”— which is the Sans­
krit meaning, and even the dictionary meaning ; a laya-center
is the mystical point where a thing disappears from one plane, if
you like, and passes onwards to reappear on another plane.
To repeat an illustration which we used in our last meeting:
pour water on a cube of sugar or salt, and watch it dissolve—
vanish as a cube or discrete entity. It has entered its laya-state
as a cube or entity of sugar or salt. The form of it has gone, and
itself— the sugar or salt— has entered into something else. When
the higher principles of a cosmic body enter into something else,
what is that something else into which they enter ? They enter
into the highest cosmic aether, first, and in due course go still
higher into the intense activity of the spiritual planes; there long
aeons are passed in states and conditions to us almost unimagin­
able. In due course of time, they begin their downward course
into matter again, or re-imbodiment, and finally, by attraction,
re-collect their old skandhas hitherto lying latent, and thus form
for themselves a new body, by passing into manifestation through
and by the laya-center where those skandhas were waiting.
Those lower principles were meanwhile in Nirvana, what we
would call Devachan after the death of man, for Devachan as a
state applies not to the highest or heavenly or divine monad, but
only to the middle principles of man, to the personal ego, or the
personal soul, in man. Applied to us this condition is the state of
Devachan— the “ land of the gods ” , if you like ; but applied to
a cosmic body it is the state of Nirvana. Nirvana is a Sanskrit
compound, nir, out, and vdna the past-participle passive of the
root vd, blow, i.e., literally “ blown out ” .
So badly has the meaning of the ancient Indian thought (and
even its language, the Sanskrit) been understood, that for many
years very erudite European scholars were discussing whether
being “ blown out ” meant actual entitative annihilation or not.
I remember once talking with a Chinese savant— he happened to
be a Chinese Buddhist— and he told me that the state of man after
death was “ like this ”— and he took up a lighted candle which was
on the table and blew upon it, and the light went out. And he
said," That way ” . He was right, because he was referring to the
44 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
lower principles in man. They (not we, our monadic or entitative
essence), they are merely the vehicle in which we live; and when
we die, our physical body is “ blown out ” , breaks up, enters into
its pralaya or dissolution, and its molecules, its particles, go into
the laya-state, and pass a certain time there until Nature calls
them forth again : or, to put it more accurately in another way,
until the indwelling impulse in each physical monadic particle
through the thirst for active being, rises forth into manifestation
again, and it re-enters some body of appropriate kind and of
similar evolutional degree.
This is one— and only one— facet of the secret of the much mis­
understood doctrine of transmigration into animals. The lower
elements, the astral body and the astral dregs of the animal or
physical man, become the principles— not the latent higher, but the
intermediate principles— of the beast-world. They are human
dregs cast off by man.
Now, the cosmic dust resulting from the dissolution of a former
world rests in a laya-center ; while the highest principles of that
world or planetary chain are in their para-nirvana, and remain
there until the divine thirst for active life on the highest plane of
descent, which re-arises in the cosmic monad of a planet or sun,
pulls, pushes, or urges, or impels, that monad to the spiritual
frontiers of manifestation ; and when it arrives at those frontiers,
it bursts through them as it were, or breaks through, or goes
through, or cycles downward through, into the plane below it,
and thus again and again through many planes, till finally the
cycling monad reaches and touches or lightens all those lower
elements which are remaining in the laya-center : awakens them,
re-awakens them, revivifies them, recalls them into being, re­
illuminates them from within ; and this produces the luminosity
or nebulosity seen in so many parts of interstellar space. There­
fore, it is, actually, daivi-prakriti, " divine Nature ”, “ divine
light ” , in one of its lowest forms— the seventh, counting down­
wards— and this same light, or force, on this our plane (our
Teachers have told us) in one of its very lowest forms, is electricity
and magnetism. Our Teachers have also told us that the physical
universe here in which we live— the stones, metals, trees, etc.—
is corporealized light. They are all formed of atoms, and these
atoms, so to speak, are the mystic atoms of this light, the corpus­
cular part of light, because light is corpuscular : it is not a mere
“ mode of motion ” or a wave or something else. Light (our
light) is a body, as much a body as electricity— one of its forms—
is a body, i.e., material, or subtil matter.
Now, then, when this nebula of which we have been speaking—
let us give it the scientific name— has attained the point of
development or evolution downwards into manifestation where the
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 45
re-imbodying principles of the former world or cosmos, or sun, or
planet, as the case may be, have sufficiently entered into it, it
begins to rotate by a characteristic energy, similar to electro­
magnetism, inherent in itself. Plato tells us that circular motion
is one of the first signs of entitative, free, existence— a saying
which is often laughed at by our young savants of science, and
quondam bigwigs of a transitory era of dogmatic thinking. Plato
defines being as a “ body which is capable of acting and being
acted upon It is a good definition to remember, for it implies
both passive and active existence— or manifestation: and he
said that, with reference to the highest essence of the cosmos—
the Primal Principle of which our first great Teacher speaks as the
Ineffable That, as the Sanskritists call it— it is not " a ” being,
hence limited, possessing bounds, because neither does it act nor
is it acted upon. It is All, eternally, endlessly All.
So this cosmic nebula drifts from the place where it first was
evolved, the guiding impulse of Karma directing here and direct­
ing there, this luminous nebulosity moving circularly, and con­
tracting, passing through other phases of nebular evolution, such
as the spiral stage and the annular ; until it becomes spherical,
or rather a nebular series of concentric spheres. The nebula in
space, as just said, takes often a spiral form, and from the core,
the center, there stream forth branches, spiral branches, and they
look like whirling wheels within wheels, and they whirl during
many ages. When the time has come— when the whirling has
developed pari passu with the indwelling lives and intelligences
within the cosmic nebula— then the annular form appears, a
form like a ring or concentric rings, with a heart in the center,
and after long aeons, the central heart becomes the sun or central
body of the new solar system, and the rings the planets. These
rings condense into other bodies, and these other bodies are the
planets circulating around their elder brother, the sun; elder,
because he was the first to condense into a sphere.
The idea of modern scientists that the nebular sun threw off the
planets, and that the earth after partial solidification threw off
the moon, and that the other planets having moons did likewise,
is not the teaching of the Esoteric Philosophy. It has never been
proved, and it is criticized daily by men as eminent as those who
propounded these theories. The nebular theory as propounded
and ‘ modified from time to time, Science has never proved ;
scientists have never been able to prove why so much heat could
develop and be retained in so tenuous, so diaphanous an object.
Why, if the luminosity arises from combustion of gaseous matter,
does it not burn itself out ? It had billions of years, countless
ages, in which to burn out, and the sky is dotted with nebulae
which have not burned out y e t; and similarly with regard to the
£
46 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
sun. The sun is formed of the same matter as the nebtilae, later
becoming cometary matter. The sun does not burn ; it has no
more heat in it than has a pane of glass which transmits the solar
ray.
The sun is not in combustion : it is the generator and storehouse
of the mighty ocean of force and forces which feed our entire
solar system. Matter is corporealized or crystallized Force;
Force, inversely, may be called subtil Matter— or matter in its
fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh states, for Force and Matter are
One. The sun is a storehouse and generator of Forces, and is
itself Force in its first and second states— i.e., matter in its sixth and
seventh states, counting upward. We shall study this subject more
fully in a later lecture.
These are a bare outline of the teachings that we have received
on the subjects treated of. The moon comprises another subject,
which will merit in due time very particular study, indeed.
First a nebula ; then a comet; then a planet; but the above
sketch outlines the state of a solar system in the first era of
the solar manvantara. Now let us take any one planet and
shortly, briefly, touch upon the nature of a planetary manvantara.
The sun, of course, remains throughout the solar manvantara.
It began with it, and when the solar system comes to an end, its
(the sun’s) pralaya will also come. But the planets are different
in certain respects. They have their manvantara also, each one
of them, lasting usually many billions of years; and when a
planetary chain or body has reached its term, when its hour strikes
for going into rest, or into pralaya or dissolution, the manvantara
ends, and pralaya begins, but in this case it is not a Prakritika-
pralaya, which, you remember, we alluded to in our last meeting—
it signifies or means the dissolution of Nature. The planetary
body remains dead, as is now the moon itself, but it sends its
principles (precisely as the former solar system did— which we
were studying) into a laya-center in space, and they remain there
for “ innumerable ages ”. Meanwhile the other planets of that
solar system go through their cycles; but the planet which we
have picked out for illustration, when its time comes again to
descend into manvantara, follows its line of development in
precisely the same way as outlined before. It descends again into
manifestation through the inner divine planetary thirst for active
life and is directed to the same solar system, and to the same
spot, relatively speaking, that its predecessor (its former self)
had, attracted thither by magnetic and other forces on the lower
planes. It forms, in the beginning of its course, or journey, down­
wards, a planetary nebula; after many aeons, it becomes a comet,
following ultimately an elliptic orbit, around the sun of our solar
system, thus being “ captured ” , as our scientists wrongly say,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 47
by the sun ; and finally condenses into a planet in its earliest
physical condition. The comets of short periodic time are on their
way to rebecoming planets in our solar system, provided they
successfully elude the many dangers that beset such ethereal
bodies before, condensation and hardening of their matter shield
them from destruction.
CHAPTER VI
THE DAWN OF MANIFESTATION : LAYA-CENTERS. A CONSCIOUS
UNIVERSE— SPIRITUALLY PURPOSIVE. STOIC DOCTRINE OF
THE INTERMINGLING OF ALL BEINGS : “ LAWS OF NATURE.”
PHILOSOPHICAL POLYTHEISM AND THE DOCTRINE OF
HIERARCHIES.
{a) The hierarchy of Creative Powers is divided into seven (or 4 and 3)
esoteric, within the twelve great Orders, recorded in the twelve signs of the
Zodiac ; the seven of the manifesting scale being connected, moreover, with the
Seven Planets. All this is subdivided into numberless groups of divine Spiritual,
semi-Spiritual, and ethereal Beings.
The Chief Hierarchies among these are hinted at in the great Quaternary,
or the “ four bodies and the three faculties ” of Brahma exoterically, and the
Panch&syam, the five Brahm&s, or the five Dhy&ni-Buddhas in the Buddhist
system.
The Secret Doctrine (H. P. Blavatsky), I, 213.
. . . The refusal to admit in the whole Solar system of any other reasonable
and intellectual beings on the human plane, than ourselves, is the greatest conceit
of our age. All that science has a right to affirm is that there are no invisible
Intelligences living under the same conditions as we do. It cannot deny point-
blank the possibility of there being worlds within worlds, under totally different
conditions to those that constitute the nature of our world ; nor can it deny that
there may be a certain limited communication between some of those worlds
and our own. To the highest, we are taught, belong the seven orders of the purely
divine Spirits, to the six lower ones belong hierarchies that can occasionally be
seen and heard by men, and who do communicate with their progeny of the
Earth, which progeny is indissolubly linked with them, each principle in man
having its direct source in the nature of those great Beings who furnish us with
the respective invisible elements in us.
Ibid., I, 133.
W
E open our study this evening by reading from
H. P. Blavatsky's Secret Doctrine, Vol. I, page 258,
the second paragraph :
" Whatsoever quits the Laya State, becomes active
life ; it is drawn into the vortex of M o t i o n (the alchemical solvent of
Life) ; Spirit and Matter are the two States of the O n e , which is neither
Spirit nor Matter, both being the absolute life, latent/' {Book o f D z y a n ,
Comm, iii, par. 18). . . . “ Spirit is the first differentiation of (and in)
S p a c e : and Matter the first differentiation of Spirit. That, which is
neither Spirit nor Matter—that is I t — the Causeless c a u s e of Spirit
and Matter, which are the Cause of Kosmos. And T h a t we call the
O n e L i f e or the Intra-Cosmic Breath.'*
In our study of a week ago, we embarked upon a brief dis­
cussion, or rather a short excursus, with regard to certain
astronomical factors which enter very largely into the occult or
48
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 49
Esoteric teaching which leads to a proper comprehension of
Cosmogony or World-Building, and also of Theogony or the
Genesis of the Gods or Divine Intelligences who initiate and
direct Cosmogony, as these are outlined in The Secret Doctrine.
Within the time at our disposal we shortly reviewed the Esoteric
formulae in which the ancient wisdom is imbodied, and the
effectual agencies which act at the Dawn of Manifestation ; and
this evening we shall undertake briefly to review the causal
agencies or aspects of the same subject.
The dawn of manifestation, as The Secret Doctrine tells us,
begins in and with the awakening of a laya-center. The Sanskrit
word laya, as we saw before, signifies in Esotericism that point
or spot— any point or any spot— in space, which, owing to karmic
law, suddenly becomes the center of active life, first on a higher
plane and later descending into manifestation through and by
the lower planes. In one sense it (such a laya-center) may be
conceived of as a canal, a channel, through which the vitality
of the superior spheres is pouring down into, and inspiring,
inbreathing into, the lower planes or states of matter, or rather
of substance. But behind all this vitality there is a driving
force, as was before remarked. There are mechanics in the
universe, mechanics of many degrees of consciousness and power.
But behind the pure mechanic stands the spiritual mechanician.
It would seem absolutely necessary first to soak our minds
through and through with the thought that everything in our
cosmical universe, i.e., the stellar universe, is alive, is directed
by will and governed by intelligence. Behind every cosmic
body that we see, there is a directing intelligence and a guiding
will.
If Theosophy has one natural enemy against which it has
fought and will always fight it is the materialistic view of life,
the view that nothing exists except dead unconscious matter,
and that the phenomena of life and thought and consciousness
spring from it. This is not merely unnatural and therefore
impossible ; it is absurd as a hypothesis.
On the contrary, as we may read in The Secret Doctrine, the
main, fundamental, and basic postulate of being is that the
universe is driven by will and consciousness, guided by will and
consciousness, and is spiritually purposive. When a toya-center
is fired into action by the touch of these two on their downward
way, becoming the imbodying life of a solar system, or of a
planet of a solar system, the center manifests first on its highest
plane. The Skandhas (which, as it will be remembered, we
described in a former study) are awakened into life one after
another : first the highest ones, next the intermediate ones, and
lastly the inferior ones, cosmically and qualitatively speaking.
50 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
In such laya-centers the imbodying life shows itself first to
our physical'human eyes as a luminous nebula— matter, which
we may describe as being of course on the fourth plane of Nature
or Prakriti, but nevertheless in the second (counting downwards)
of the seven principles or states of the material universe. It is a
manifestation in that universe of Daivi-Prakriti, i.e., “ shining ”
Prakriti, or “ divine ” Prakriti. As the aeons pass, this laya-
center now manifesting as a nebula, remains in space steadily
though slowly developing and condensing (following the impulses
of the forces that have awakened it into action on this plane)—
as the aeons pass, I say, it is drawn towards that part or locality
in space— if we are speaking of a solar system— or towards that
sun, if we are describing the coming into being of a planet, with
which it has karmic— skandhic— affinities, or magnetic attraction,
and eventually manifests in the latter case as a comet, the matter
of which, by the way, is entirely different from the matter we
have any knowledge of on earth, and which it is impossible to
reproduce under any physical conditions in our laboratories,
because this matter, while on the fourth plane of manifestation
(otherwise we should not sense it with our fourth-plane eyes), is
matter in another state than any known to us— probably in the
sixth state, counting from below, or the second state counting
from above.
Of such matter is the sun, or rather the solar body, in its
outward form, composed. It is physical matter in the sixth state,
counting upwards, or in the second state counting downwards or
outward ; and its nucleus, which, as H. P. Blavatsky tells us in
The Secret Doctrine, is a particle or a solar atom of primal matter-
stuff, orspirit-stuff, is matterin the seventh state counting upwards,
or the fii^st or highest, counting downwards.
This comet in time, if it succeed in pursuing its way towards
becoming what it is destined to be, becomes finally a planet; it
so becomes unless it meet with some disaster, as when it is
swallowed up by one or another of the suns which it may pass
in its far-flung orbit. Some comets have already, in our solar
system, so nearly reached the planetary state in its first stages, on
the way to becoming a full-grown planet of the solar system,
that their orbits lie within the confines or limits of this system.
Such, for instance, is Encke’s comet, having an elliptical orbit,
and moving around the sun in a closed curve in the space of two
and a half or three years. Another one is Biela’s, which, I
believe, has not been seen again, after it appeared to break into
two, I think in the ’fifties of last century. Another one was
Faye’s, having the largest orbit of all these three. Two others
are de Vico’s and Brorsen’s.
It would seem as if all those comets which are drawn into
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 51
elliptical orbits around our sun, were so drawn because they were
karmically destined ultimately to become planets of our system ;
but others, again, suffer another fate. They perish, absorbed
or tom to pieces by the inexpressibly active influences which
surround not merely our own but all other suns, because each
sun, while being the center of its own system of planets, and their
life-giver, from another aspect is a cosmical vampire.
There is much more on this subject that must be said, but it
is very doubtful whether, at the present stage of our study, it
would be wise to embark upon a wider exposition now ; and also
because we know not whether the Teacher would approve of
our going into the matter more fully at present.
If possible, we desire this evening to return to the point where
we were, before embarking upon this excursus, and to take up
again the same thread of thought then interrupted, continuing
it this evening with a study of the beginning of things as outlined
in the Jewish book of Genesis, or “ Beginning ” , and as illustrated
more particularly by the Jewish Theosophy called the Qabbalah.
If the time allotted to us be insufficient to do so this evening, we
hope to begin that study at our next meeting.
Nothing in the universe is separate from any other thing. All
things hang together not merely sympathetically and magnetic­
ally but because all beings are fundamentally one. We have one
self, one Self of selves, manifesting in the inmost of the Inmost
being of all. But we have many egos, and the study of the ego
in that branch of our thought which is embraced under the head
of psychology, is one of the most inherently necessary and one
of the most interesting and important that can be undertaken.
Around the ego center, so far as we humans are concerned,
some of the most important teachings of the Esoteric Wisdom.
Without going into this study at some length, it is impossible
for us to understand certain of the teachings in The Secret
Doctrine. The ancient Stoics (the very wonderful philosophy
originating with some of the Greek philosophers, and which
became so deservedly popular among the deeper thinkers of
Rome) taught that everything in the universe is intermingled,
or interwoven, not by fundamentally distinct essences or entities
interpenetrating each other, nor in what we theosophists today
call “ planes of being ” , merely, but by various aspects or differ­
entiations of one common substance, the Root of all, and they
expressed the principle through the three Greek words, Krasis
di ’holou, a mingling through everything, an intermingling of all the
essences in the Cosmos, arising out of, and differentiated from,
the Root-substance common to all. This is also the teaching of
our own Esoteric Wisdom. It is the manifestation, in other
words, of all beings, of all thinking, unthinking, and senseless
52 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
beings, and of all the gods giving direction and purpose to the
complex universe, which we see around us today; and in this
varied life was placed the primal cause of all the beauty, the
concord, as well as the strife and discord that do exist in Nature,
and which is the cause of the so-called mistakes that Nature
makes. The origin, in other words, of what some people and
some Christians call the “ insolvable riddle " of the " Origin of
e v i l W h a t is the " origin of evil" ? The Ancient Wisdom says
that it is merely the conflict of wills of evolving beings— an
inevitable and necessary phase of evolution.
Properly to understand this Intermingling involves another
important subject of study which we shall take up at a later
date, and this is the doctrine of Hierarchies. Hierarchy, of
course, merely means that a scheme or system or state of delegated
directive power and authority exists in a self-contained body,
directed, guided, and taught by one having supreme authority,
called the Hierarch. The name is used by us, by extension of
meaning, as signifying the innumerable degrees, grades, and
steps of evolving entities in the Kosmos, and as applying to all
parts of the universe; and rightly so, because every different
part of the universe— and their number is simply countless— is
under the vital governance of a Divine Being, of a God, of a
Spiritual Essence, and all material manifestations are simply the
appearances on our plane of the workings and actions of these
Spiritual Beings behind it. The series of Hierarchies extends
infinitely in both directions. Man may, if he so choose, for
purposes of thought, consider himself at the middle point, from
which extends above him an unending series of steps upon steps
of higher beings of all grades— growing constantly less material
and more spiritual, and greater in all senses— towards an ineffable
point, and there the imagination stops; not because the series
itself stops, but because our thought can reach no farther out
nor in. And similar to this series, an infinitely great series of
beings and states of beings descends downwards (to use human
terms)— downwards and downwards, until there again the
imagination stops merely because our thought can go no farther.
The eternal action and interaction— or what the Stoics also
called the intermingling— of these beings produce eternally the
various so-called “ planes of being ” , and the action of the will
of these beings on matter or substances is the manifestation of
what we call the “ laws of Nature ". This is a very inaccurate
and misleading phrase ; but it seems justifiable in a metaphorical
sense, because as a human legislator or a human law-giver will
set forth or set down certain rules of conduct, certain schemes of
action, which are to be obeyed, so the Intelligences behind the
actions of Nature do the same thing, not in a legislative way, but
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 53
by the action of their own spiritual economy. So man himself, in
similar fashion, lays down the “ laws ” for the less lives which
compose his essences— the principles under the center which he
governs— and which comprise even the physical body, and the
lives building it. Each one of these lives, as was said before, is
a microcosmic universe or cosmos, that is to say, an ordered
entity, an entity ruled by inescapable or ineluctable habit, which
the scientists of our own race, applying the rule to universal
cosmical action, call the “ laws ” of Nature.
And they in turn, these less lives, have similar universes under
them. It is unthinkable that the series can stop or have an end,
because if it did, we should have an infinity that ends, an un­
thinkable proposition. It is merely the paucity of our ideas and
the feebleness of our imagination which make us to suppose that
there may be a stop at certain points; and it is this feebleness
of thought which has given birth to and promoted the rise of
the different religious systems; in one case the monotheism of the
Christian Church, and in another case the monotheism of the
Mohammedan peoples, and in another case still the monotheism
of the Jewish people. Of these three, the Jews have had the
longest history and the wisest history, for the Jews originally
were never a monotheistic people. In their early history they
were convinced polytheists— using the term in the philosophical
sense, lest people imagine when they hear of Polytheism that it
means our absurd modem Western misconception of what we
think the cultured Romans and Greeks thought about their gods
and goddesses, or what we think they ought to have believed,
which is conceited nonsense.
The popular mythology of the Greeks and Romans, as also
that of ancient Egypt or of Babylonia, and that of the Germanic
or Celtic tribes of Europe, was understood in a different way
from our gross misconception of i t ; and conceived of in a different
way by the wise men in those days, who understood perfectly
well all the usual symbols and allegories by which the esoteric
teachings were outlined and taught in the popular mythologies.
And we must remember that “ exoteric ” does not necessarily
mean false. It means only that in exoteric teachings the keys
to the esoteric teachings have not been given out.
We often hear the claim made by monotheistic believers, that
the great “ prophets ” of Israel, the so-called wise men of that
people, knew better than their ancient predecessors what their
people ought to know and believe. They— these prophets—
taught monotheism, we are assured, and redirected the thoughts
of the people away from the ancient beliefs— indeed, the multi­
plicity of beliefs— towards one tribal God whom they called
Jehovah, a word, by the way, which the later orthodox Jewish
54 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
religionists held— and still hold— so sacred that they would
not even pronounce it aloud, but in reading aloud substituted
for it another word, when this word " Jehovah ” occurred in a
sentence in the Jewish Bible. Now this substitute word is
“ Adonai ” , and means “ my Lords ”— in itself a tru§ confession
of polytheistic thought. Judaism is replete in its Law, or Bible,
at least, with polytheism; and so prone is the human heart to
follow the instincts of its spirit, that when the Christian Church
in its blindness overthrew philosophical Polytheism, as an error
in religion, the reaction, fully to be expected as a consequence,
finally— and, indeed, very soon— set in, and that Church answered
the cry of the human heart by substituting ” saints ” for the
injured and banished Gods and Goddesses, thus inaugurating a
cultural adoration of dead men and women for Powers, Intelli­
gences, in Nature ! They had to give them saints in order to
supply the places of the forgotten Deities; and even gave to
these saints more or less the same powers that the ancient gods
and goddesses were reputed to have exercised and to have had.
They had a saint as a patron or protector of city, state, or
country— St. George for England, St. James for Spain, St. Denis
for France, and so on. The same thought, the same function,
the same desire satisfied— the instincts of the human heart
cannot be ignored or violated with impunity. But how greatly
different was the initiate view of the Wise Men in “ Pagan ”
times!
Now when the Ancients spoke of the multiplicity of Gods they
did so with wisdom, understanding, and reverence. Is it con­
ceivable that the great men of the ancient days who then dis­
covered and established the canons of belief followed by us—
usually ignorant of our great debt to them— even to-day in all
our lines of thought, and which we value like little children and
have valued since the rebirth of literature in our Western world,
— is it conceivable, I say, that they had no conception of cosmical
or of divine unity, something which even the average man of
intelligence to-day will come to ? How absurd 1 No ! They
could think and they knew as well as we do, but they also knew,
yea, even the degenerated thinkers in the early ages of the
Christian era, that if " God ” made the world, being a perfect
and infinite Being, his work (or Its work) could be only a perfect
and infinite work, worthy of its perfect and infinite Maker, free
from vanity, free from limitations, free from sin, free from decrepi­
tude and ceaseless, gnawing change. Yet, as we see and consider
the things around us, as we know that the world, being an
exemplar of change and hence of limitations and decay, therefore
cannot be and is not infinite, we know— the instincts of our being
tell us— that it is the work of less beings, of minor and limited
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 55
Powers, however exalted spiritually ; and as we penetrate into
our own thoughts and study the life of the beings and of the nature
around us, we see also that there is life within life, wheel within
wheel, purpose within purpose, and that behind the outward
manifestations or action (the “ laws of Nature”) of the so-called
Gods, there are still more subtil Powers, still more exalted Intelli­
gences at work : verily, wheels within wheels, lives within lives,
and so on for ever : an unending and boundless Unity in Multi­
plicity, and Multiplicity limitless and unbounded in Unity. So,
as said before, when we speak of the unity of Life, or of the
“ divine unity ”, we merely mean that here our penetrating
spirit has reached the limit of its present powers, a point at
which human thought can go no farther. It has run to its
utmost limits, and from the feebleness of it, we are bound in
truth to say, Here is as far as our thought can go. It is our
present " Ring called *Pass Not I ’ ” But this honest confession
of human limitation does not mean that there is “ nothing ”
beyond. On the contrary, it is a proof that Life and space are
endless.
Now the Neo-Platonists who first came into prominence in the
early centuries of the Christian era— and who, with the Stoics,
provided Christianity with all that it had that was philosophically
good and spiritual and true— taught that the summit, the acme,
the flower, the highest point (that they called the “ hyparxis ”)
of any series of animate and " inanimate ” beings, whether we
enumerate the stages or degrees of the series as seven or ten or
twelve (according to whichever system we follow), was the
“ divine unity “ for that series or Hierarchy, and that this hyparxis
or flower or summit or beginning or highest being was again in
its turn the lowest being of the Hierarchy above it, and so extending
onwards for ever.
Change within change, wheel within wheel, each Hierarchy
manifesting one facet, as it were, of the divine cosmic Life, each
Hierarchy showing forth one thought, as it were, of the divine
thinkers. Good and evil are relative, and rigidly offset and equili­
brate each other. There is no absolute good, there is no absolute
evil ; these are mere human terms, only. “ Evil ” in any sphere
of life, is imperfection, for it. “ Good ” in any sphere of life, is
Perfection, for it. But the good of one is the evil of another,
because the latter is the shadow of something higher above it.
Just as “ light ” and " darkness ” are not absolute but relative
things. What is “ darkness ” ? Darkness is absence of light,
and the light that we know is itself the manifestation of life in
matter— hence a material phenomenon. Each is (physically) a
form of vibration, each is, therefore, a form of life.
Various names were given to these Hierarchies considered as
56 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
series of beings. For instance, let us take the standard and
generalized Greek Hierarchy as shown by writers in periods
preceding the rise of Christianity, though the Neo-Platonists, as
we have seen, had their own Hierarchies, and gave the stages or
degrees thereof special names. It is often asserted by those
people who know everything— I mean the bigwigs of the modem
day, who even believe that they know better what the ancients
believed than the ancients did themselves— that Neo-Platonism
was evolved merely to oppose and overthrow, and to take the
place of the wonderful, soul-saving, spiritual doctrines of
Christianity, forgetting that from Neo-Platonism and Neo-
Pythagoreanism, and Stoicism, early Christianity drew nearly
everything of religious and philosophic good that it had in it.
But the Neo-Platonic doctrine was, in sober fact, actually the
setting forth to a certain degree only of the esoteric doctrine of the
Platonic school, and was, in its esoteric reach, the teaching which
Plato and the early Pythagoreans taught secretly to their
disciples.
We now resume our thread. The hyparxis, as we showed,
means the summit or beginning of a Hierarchy. The scheme
started with the divine, the highest point of the series or its
Divinity:
(i) Divine. (2) Gods, or the spiritual. (3) Demi-gods, some­
times called divine heroes, involving a very mystical doctrine.
(4) Heroes proper. (5) Men. (6) Beasts or animals. (7) Vegetable
world. (8) Mineral world. (9) Elemental world, or what was
called the realm of Hades. As said, the Divinity (or aggregate
Divine Lives) itself was the hyparxis of this series of Hierarchies,
because each of these nine stages was itself a subordinate Hier­
archy. The names mean little, you may give them other names ;
the name itself matters not much ; the important thing is to get
the thought. Now, as said before, remember that this Esoteric
Wisdom taught that this (or any other) Hierarchy of nine, hangs
like a pendant jewel from the lowest Hierarchy above it, which
made the tenth counting upwards, which we can call, if you like,
the Super-Divine, the Hyper-Heavenly, and that this tenth was
the lowest stage (or the ninth, counting downwards) of still
another Hierarchy extending upwards ; and so on, indefinitely.
Now when the Christians finally overthrew the ancient
religion; when the karmic cycle had brought about an era of
what Plato called spiritual barrenness— and we remember to
divide the work of evolution into two parts, epochs of barrenness
and epochs of fertility— when the Christian religion came in as
part of an epoch of barrenness, the Christians took over very
much of this ancient thought, as was only to be expected:
history merely repeated itself. And they derived it, as was said
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 57
before, mainly from the Stoics and the Neo-Pythagoreans and
the Neo-Platonists, but mostly from the Neo-Platonists. This was
done in very large part, at Alexandria, the great center of Greek
or Hellenistic culture at that time ; the chiefest thinkers of the
Neo-Platoijists also lived in Alexandria. This Neo-Platonic
stream of beautiful thought in the Christian religion, entered into
it with special force around the fifth century, through the writings
of a man who was called Dionysius the Areopagite, from the
“ Hill of Ares ” , or Mars, at Athens. The Christian legend runs
that when Paul preached at Athens, he did so on Mars Hill, or
the Areopagus, and that one of his first converts was a Greek
called Dionysius; and Christian tradition goes on to say that
he was, later, the first Christian Bishop of Athens. Now this
may all be fable. However, the Christians claimed it as a
fact.
Now in the fifth or sixth century, five hundred years more or
less after Paul is supposed to have preached in Athens, there
appeared in the Greek world a work calling itself the writings of
Dionysius, the Areopagite— claiming authorship from this same
man. It is evidently the work of a Neo-Platonist-Christian.
That is to say, of a Christian, who for reasons of his own, perhaps
policy (social or financial), remained within the Christian Church,
but was more or less a Greek pagan, a Neo-Platonist at heart.
This work, by coming out under the name of the first (alleged)
Bishop of Athens, Dionysius, almost immediately began to have
immense vogue in the Christian Church ; and it remains to this
day, not indeed one of the canonical works, but one of the works
which the Christians consider among the greatest they have on
mystical lines, and perhaps their most spiritual work; it very
deeply affected Christian theological thought from the time of
its appearance.
One of the works comprised in this book, attributed by the
Christians themselves to Dionysius, Paul’s first convert in
Athens, is a treatise on the Divine Hierarchies, in which the
teaching is that God is infinite and therefore did the work of
creation through less abstract and spiritual beings ; and a scheme
of Hierarchies is here set forth, one lower than another, one
derived from the other ; which is exactly the teaching in the
Qabbalah, the Theosophy of the Jews ; which also is exactly
the teaching of the Neo-Platonists and essentially that of the
Stoics, and of the old Greek mythology. It is a “ pagan ” teaching
throughout, and merely became Christianized because adapted
to the new religion, and because Christian names are used : and,
instead of saying and enumerating gods, divine heroes, demi-gods or
heroes, men, animals, etc., the names are God, Archangels, Thrones,
Powers, etc. But the schematic or essential thought is the same :
58 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
and, furthermore, there are actually passages in the works of
this Dionysius which are taken word for word— wholesale—
from the writings of the Neo-Platonist Plotinus, who lived and
flourished and wrote voluminously on Neo-Platonic subjects in
the third century.
Now this work, particularly in the field of dogmatic ecclesias­
tical thought, formed the basis of much of the theology of the
Greek and Roman Churches ; we may even say that on it their
mediaeval theology was actually based. It formed the main
source of the studies and writings of the Italian Thomas Aquinas
(13th century), one of the greatest mediaeval doctors of the
Christian religion, and of Johannes Scotus, called Erigena, an
Irishman (9th century), and probably of Duns Scotus (13th
century), a remarkable Scot; and of many more. Spenser,
Shakespeare, and Milton, to speak only of English literature,
are full of the spirit of these writings. They provided much of the
mystical thought of the Dark Ages, and ultimately in a degener­
ate form helped to give rise to the hair-splitting and quibbling
and squabbles of the quasi-religious writers known as the School­
men. But these men had lost the inner sense or heart of the thing
through the ecclesiastical growth and political power of the
Christian Church, and they began to argue about things of no
spiritual consequence whatever ; such as the query, Which came
first: the hen or the egg ? or, How many angels can dance on the
point of a needle ? or, If an irresistible force meets an immovable
obstacle, what then happens ? These most pragmatical and
useful diversions and intellectual vagaries lasted for a certain
time, and then, with the renaissance of thought in Europe, due
largely to the labors of the devotees of Science and natural
Philosophy, the European world gradually began to pull out of
this mental slough, and brought in an era, which is now in full
and strong current, and which has inaugurated and continued,
for good or for ill (perhaps both), the streams of human thinking
as we see it today. Do we Theosophists presume vainly to
interpret the lessons of universal history when we say that we
are the forerunners and the makers of the new era— a far nobler
and more spiritual cycle— which is to come, and is even now
dawning, albeit coming to being in no little sorrow and tribulation
of both soul and intellect ?
In conclusion, we may call attention to the fact that just about
the time when the first 5000 years of the Hindu cycle called the
Kaliyuga (lasting 432,000) came to an end, there also came to
an end a certain “ Messianic ” cycle of twenty-one hundred
years— (actually, if we come to exact figures, 2160), which is,
note well, just one half of the Hindu-Babylonian root-cycle of
4320 years.
FU NDAM ENTALS OF T H E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 59
In our next evening of study we hope to take up, with the
Teacher’s permission, the outline of Cosmogony and Theogony
from the Polytheistic standpoint, as found in the Book of Genesis,
the first of the Jewish Bible.
C H A P T E R V II
“ HIERARCHIES ” : ONE OF THE LOST KEYS OF THE ESOTERIC
PHILOSOPHY. THE PYTHAGOREAN SACRED TETRACTYS. THE
LADDER OF LIFE : THE LEGEND OF PADMAPANI.
Theophilosophy proceeds on broader lines. From the very beginning of .Eons
— in time and space in our Round and Globe— the Mysteries of Nature (at any
rate, those which it is lawful for our races to know) were recorded by the pupils
of those same now invisible “ heavenly men," in geometrical figures and symbols.
The keys thereto passed from one generation of “ wise men " to the other. Some
of the symbols, thus passed from the east to the west, were brought therefrom
by Pythagoras, who was not the inventor of his famous “ Triangle." The latter
figure, along with the plane cube and circle, are more eloquent and scientific
descriptions of the order of the evolution of the Universe, spiritual and psychic,
as well as physical, than volumes of descriptive Cosmogonies and revealed
" Geneses." The ten points inscribed within that " Pythagorean triangle " are
worth all the theogonics and angelologies ever emanated from the theological
brain. For he who interprets them— on their very face, and in the order given—
will find in these seventeen points (the seven Mathematical Points hidden) the
uninterrupted series of the genealogies from the first Heavenly to terrestrial man.
And, as they give the order of Beings, so they reveal the order in which were
evolved the Kosmos, our earth, and the primordial elements by which the latter
was generated. Begotten in the invisible Depths, and in the womb of the same
" Mother " as its fellow-globes— he who will master the mysteries of our Earth
will have mastered those of all others.
The Secret Doctrine (H. P. Blavatsky), I, pp. 612, 613.
“ It is that Light which condenses into the forms of the *Lords of Being *
— the first and the highest of which are, collectively, Jivátmá, or Pratyagatmd
(said figuratively to issue from Paramátmá. It is the Logos of the Greek
philosophers— appearing at the beginning of every new Manvantara). From
these downwards—formed from the ever-consolidating waves of that light, which
becomes on the objective plane gross matter— proceed the numerous hierarchies of the
Creative Forces, someformless, others having their own distinctive form, others, again,
the lowest (Elementáis), having no form of their own, but assuming every form
according to the surrounding conditions."
Ibid., II, pp. 33, 34-
W
E open our study this evening by reading from T h e
Secret Doctrine, Vol. I, page 274 :
The whole Kosmos is guided, controlled, and animated
by almost endless series of Hierarchies of sentient Beings,
each having a mission to perform, and who—whether we give to them
one name or another, and call them Dhyan-Chohans or Angels—are
“ messengers ” in the sense only that they are the agents of Karmic
and Cosmic Laws. They vary infinitely in their respective degrees
of consciousness and intelligence ; and to call them all pure Spirits
without any of the earthly alloy “ which time is wont to prey upon M
is only to indulge in poetical fancy. For each of these Beings either w as,
60
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 61
or prepays to become, a man, if not in the present, then in a past or
a coming cycle (Manvantara).
When we ended our study last week, because of the short time
that the Teacher has set for us in which to speak, we left un­
mentioned a number of very important things, which we shall
have to take up this evening before we can proceed to the particu­
lar study that was to follow in proper course the excursus which
we embarked upon three weeks ago.
First a few words more concerning the Nebular Theory or
Hypothesis and the Planetary Theory deriving from it, as con­
sidered from the Theosophical standpoint, and consequently a
further explanation or rather development of the doctrine of
Hierarchies, which will lead us to the study towards which we
have aimed, that is to say, the consideration of Cosmogony or the
beginning of worlds as outlined in the Jewish Book of Genesis or
“ Beginnings ” .
About one hundred years ago, more or less within a few years
of each other, there died three remarkable men, namely Kant,
perhaps the greatest philosopher that Europe has produced;
Sir William Herschel, the astronomer; and the Marquis de
Laplace ; the first a German, the second a German-Englishman,
or an Anglo-German, and the third a Frenchman. All these three
men in some degree were responsible for the enunciation and the
development of the theory of world-beginning which eventuated
in the Nebular Hypothesis of Laplace. It is interesting also to
note that all three men were of humble birth, and by the force
of their own intelligence and character became, all three of them,
remarkable men. Kant was, I believe, the son of a saddler; Sir
William Herschel was also of humble origin, and was in youth an
oboist in the Hanoverian Guards; and Pierre Simon Laplace
was the son of a farmer; Laplace was ennobled, and upon him
was conferred the nobiliary title of Marquis.
Now the Nebular Theory really originated with K ant; he it
was who laid down the basic lines, the fundamental ground, as it
were, upon which the Nebular Theory was later developed
mathematically by Laplace. Coincident with Kant’s work and
writings was the astronomical work of Herschel in England,
and those two men were responsible for the fundamentals of the
Nebular Theory. Laplace took it up after they had more or less
laid down the main lines, developed it into what is called the
" Nebular hypothesis or theory of Laplace ” , and on account of
its explaining in mathematical form the mechanism of the
universe, that is to say, of the solar system and the planets, and
their satellites, it has been called a “ magnificently audacious ”
hypothesis. It was Laplace who carried the theory a good deal
farther than the work of Kant and Herschel— than the point
F
62 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
where Kant and Herschel had left i t ; and, in a sense/ Laplace
materialized it. As H. P. Blavatsky tells us, if the nebular
theory had remained at the point where Kant and Herschel had
left it, there would be little for the Theosophical writers and
thinkers to do except to develop it and explain it in accordance
with the Esoteric Philosophy.
It is very interesting to note that another great man, Sweden­
borg in Sweden, also worked upon the same theory and apparently
had very nearly the same ideas that Kant and Herschel had as
regards a nebular genesis of cosmical systems. Now these two
latter men had a spiritual idea back of the theory which they
enunciated, and it was the abandonment of that spiritual idea
by Laplace, and the substitution by him of a mechanico-mathe-
matical theory in its place, which furnished those influences which
directed the nebular hypothesis away from the line and thought
and teachings as laid down in the Esoteric Philosophy, as taught
by the ancient Teachers.
The nebular hypothesis has in some respects been much changed
since the day of Laplace ; scientists have thought more about it,
a fact which was also true in 1887 or 1888 when H. P. Blavatsky
wrote The Secret Doctrine. There has been an attempt by later
astronomers of our own day, Sir Norman Lockyer, and the
American astronomer and mathematician See, to replace a
nebular origin of cosmical bodies— at least in part— with what has
been called a planetesimal hypothesis or a planetesimal origin—
that is to say, that the bodies of the solar system have been built
up of and by cosmic dust and tiny planets drawn together by the
force of gravitation. Now this theory is, philosophically speaking,
at an immense distance from the teachings of the Esoteric Philos­
ophy, although this Philosophy does admit and teach that at a
later stage in the evolution of cosmical bodies, collection and
concretion of stellar dust is, actually, one of the phases in the
growth of worlds.
Theosophy admits that a planet or a solar system, in the course
of its formation, does gather to itself “ star-dust ” and vagrant
bodies dispersed in space ; but this factor in its growth is not its
origin. The origin of a sun, of a solar system and of the planets
in it, and consequently of the entire universe within the encircling
zone of the Milky Way, has a spiritual background, has spiritual
essences or gods behind it, who form such a system, and direct it,
and are the mechanicians in it and of it. Their work is carried on
(more or less) along the main lines of the nebular theory as
enunciated by Kant and Herschel: that is to say, space is etern­
ally filled with matter in a certain state or condition of being,
and when this matter, as Kant and Herschel would have said,
receives the divine impulse, it is concreted and becomes luminous,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 63
and this* concretion is further (and later) strengthened by its
drawing into itself, from the immense spacial expanse in which
it is, material “ star-dust ” and larger bodies.
Now, when we look up at the sky we see material bodies,
fourth-plane bodies seen with our fourth-plane eyes, but behind
these fourth-plane bodies there are spiritual intelligences, which
are called in the Esoteric Philosophy, Dhyan-Chohans, or “ Lords
of Meditation ” . As the Ancients put it, every celestial body
is an “ animal ” , Now the word animal comes from the Latin,
and means a living being. Commonly, in speech, we speak of
“ animals ” when we should say “ beasts ” or “ brutes ” ; that
is to say, a “ brute ” is an entity which has not yet been raised
to the level of a self-conscious entity; it is brute in the original
Latin sense, i.e., “ heavy ” , " gross ” , hence irrational and incom­
plete ; it is not yet finished. But an animal really means a
living being, and in that sense the word applies to men; also,
in the view of the Ancients, it applies to the stellar, solar, and
planetary bodies— they are “ animals ” in the sense of being
living things, with a physical corpus or body, but nevertheless
animate or insouled: in the mystical teachings of the Esoteric
Philosophy they are insouled things, as indeed every atom is,
every tiny universe, or tiny cosmos.
Now this insouling is done by (or is the action of) what is
commonly called Hierarchies. There is not for every individual
entity in Kosmos, whether atom, beast, man, god, planet, or sun,
one concreted soul, as it were, derived from the universal World-
Soul, with nothing— no connecting links— above it and nothing
below it— not at all. There are no true vacancies in Nature,
physical, astral, or spiritual: there are no vacuums. Everything
is linked on to everything else, by literally countless bonds of
union, which is another master-key to the teachings of the
Esoteric Philosophy. As in man, so in every other unit of being,
in every other entity, the universal life manifests through a
Hierarchy; the multiform and varied qualities of beings are
but the life-rays of a Hierarchy, that is to say, grades or steps of
consciousness and matter, ascending from below upward, or if
you like, coming downwards from above, through all of which
the center of consciousness— call it soul or ego for the moment—
must pass in its evolution towards godhood.
Now this teaching of Hierarchies is fundamental. It is one of
the present-day “ lost keys ” of the Esoteric Philosophy. Nothing
can be understood adequately without a clear comprehension of
it. As man is in our ordinary psychology considered to be a
triad, or a triform entity— body, soul, and spirit— so he may be
considered from another point of view as a four-fold entity, or
as a five-fold, or a six-fold, or a seven-fold, or (the most esoteric
64 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
of all) as a ten-fold entity. Why ten ? Because ten, the*Teachers
have told us, is the key-number which explains the compound
fabric of the universe. The universe is built on a denary scale,
that is, on a scale counting by tens. In a few moments we shall
develop in outline the philosophical import of seven and ten.
Let us say now that man is septenary in our view <
5
nly because
we reckon in as principles, two elements of his being which are
not, strictly speaking, human principles; one the physical
body which really is not a “ principle ” at a ll: it is merely a
house, his “ carrier ” in another sense, and no more belongs to
man— except that he has excreted it, thrown it out from himself—
this physical body, we say, is no more himself than is the
house in which his body lives. He is a complete human being
without it.
The second strictly non-human principle is the highest of all
the seven, the Higher Self, the Atman, the seventh— non-human
because it is universal. The Self no more belongs to me than
to you or to anyone else. Selfhood is the same in all beings. But
beyond the Atman, there is the Paramatman, which we have
briefly studied before, the Supreme Self. The Atman is, as it
were, the star of our own self-issue, the Root of our selfhood, the
point where we cling, as it were, to the “ Highest ” . If we can
conceive of an ocean of superspiritual ether, so to speak, and in
that ocean— call it consciousness— a vortex, a laya-center, a
point, a Primordial Point, whence the six principles below it
flow forth into concrete manifestation through its vehicles— the
souls or egos— we obtain a very crude conception of the Root of
our being. It is the Atman, the channel or spiritual point where
the superspiritual breaks, as it were, from and through a barrier
downwards into individualized life. This process we shall
more fully explain later, and shall then illustrate it by
diagram.
Now this matter of Hierarchies is dealt with in the different
world-religions virtually in the same manner but under different
names and in different paradigmatic schemes. For instance, you
can think of the ten parts or grades or steps of a Hierarchy as one
under the other, like the floors in a house, or like the flats in an
apartment-house, a very gross simile, it is true, but having the
advantage of suggesting steps or planes, and of suggesting high
and low. We can think of a Hierarchy in another, more subtil,
manner, as consisting in triads of spheres, or living centers, three
triads hanging from the tenth or highest point; and that highest
center is, as already explained, the point beyond which our
thought and imagination can soar no higher, and we merely say
that this center is the highest that the human intellect can reach.
But we know that beyond it, this tenth which is our highest,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 65
there is also the lowest center or plane of another Hierarchy still
higher from which our Hierarchy hangs as a pendant; and so
on endlessly. We cannot say of Infinity, that the Infinite begins
here and ends there : if this were so, it would not be infinite, it
would not f>e boundless. Our doctrine of Universal Life, of
Universal Consciousness, of one Universal “ Law ” working
everywhere, means that that “ Law ” manifests in every atom,
and in every part of Universal Being, and in all directions,
and for all duration, and in the same manner everywhere;
because it cannot manifest in radically diverse ways; if
so, it would be many fundamental “ laws ” and not one
" Law ” .
For instance— as regards Hierarchies— in our last study we
considered the Hierarchy of the Neo-Platonic philosophy, which
is really the esoteric teaching of ancient Greece in the form that
Plato gave to it. And there were nine stages, nine degrees,
hanging, as it were, from the topmost, the spiritual sun or the
central sun. We can conceive of these Hierarchies as seven con­
centric circles around and deriving from a central point, the
Highest Triad, which we can call the infinite or the Primordial
Point; or, again, we can call this primordial point the Atman
or Self of the thinking entity, man, and then the other spheres
or circles of being around him, will stand for his six other
principles, somewhat in this fashion :
This is one way of representing a human individual Hierarchy,
the different spheres or concentric circles, six of them, all flowing
forth from the center, or seventh element, the Self. All Hier­
archies are divided into seven, nine, or ten. The reason for this
is a question that we shall have to go into by and by. There is
no need to represent all these methods or paradigmatic schemes,
but the idea is the same in all. Another way of representing a
66 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Hierarchy by paradigm is, as said before, by like lines, ten of
them, in this way :
__________________________ /
__________________________ 2
__________________________3 '
__________________________ *t
__________________________ 5
______________________________ 6
_________________________________ 7
___________________________ 8
__________________________9
__________________________10
or by representing the nine stages or spheres as three triads on
three planes, and the tenth on its own fourth plane :
We have studied the system of the Neo-Platonic Hierarchies
in brief outline ; and, if we have time, we shall take up this
evening two other paradigmatic schemes by which Hierarchies
are variously represented. Let us call earnest attention here to
the important fact, before going farther, that these schemes,
these paradigmatic representation^ on a flat surface, do not
mean that the grades or steps or planes of being are either flat
surfaces, or are like “ nests ” of boxes ; they merely show by
analogy, by hints, the relations and the functions of the grades
among themselves.
It is obvious to any thinking man that the Hierarchies of being
do not rise one above another like the floors of a house; it is
perhaps true that all over the world they are so represented by
different systems ; but this is merely to show that there is a high
and a low, a series of conditions or states of spirit and matter.
Just as we would teach children, so the ancient Teachers taught
us, in simple ways. Nor are we to imagine that the Hierarchies
actually extend somewhere in space in the form of triangles or
circles. We represent them in this way in order to show their
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 67
intermingling relations and their interpenetrating functions
among each other. Why, however, do we separate the grades
into triads ? Because certain ones of these grades or planes are
more nearly related, intermingle more easily, function more
easily together, since their conditions or states are more closely
akin. (1) The first triad, the highest; (2) the intermediate ;
(3) the lowest triad; and all overshadowing the corpus, the
physical body. Or we can take another scheme, and have the
three lowest centers forming the bottom triad ; the three inter­
mediate centers next; and then the three highest; all the three
triads hanging from a point, the Primordial Point, “ God ” , if
you like.
Now let us consider the question: Have the Christians a
Hierarchy in their theology ? They have ; and by this I mean
that the Christians had one, apparently from the earliest times,
till the natural resiliency of the human mind began to exert
itself in rebellion against the dogmatism and materialization of
the Christian teaching which reached its climax in the epoch
preceding the Renaissance of thought, when the discoveries of
science freed the human mind from its dogmatic shackles.
Nevertheless, up till that time this teaching of Hierarchies con­
trolling living beings flourished in the Christian Church, and it
originated in the form it then had, as we pointed out in our last
study, in the writings of Dionysius, “ the Areopagite ” . One of
his works was called On the Celestial Hierarchy, and it showed
how all spiritual being was divided into a Hierarchy of ten degrees
or stages, the tenth or highest being God. This mystic writer
followed this work with another called On the Ecclesiastical
Hierarchy, and he claimed as a good Christian, or in order to
please his good Christian friends— there is every reason to
believe that he copied the hierarchical scheme of the Neo-
Platonic philosophy, which was purely pagan, of course— that
on earth the celestial Hierarchy was re-enacted or reflected or
repeated in an ecclesiastical Hierarchy, which was the Christian
Church, topped by Jesus as the highest representative thereof
and as the “ Logos of God ” !
Now what were the names that Dionysius gave to the grades
or stages of his Hierarchy ? First, God, as the summit, the
Divine Spirit; then came the Seraphim ; then the Cherubim ;
then the Thrones, forming the first triad. Then Dominations,
Virtues, Powers, forming the second triad. Then Principalities,
then Archangels, then Angels, the third triad counting down­
ward.
It is interesting to note that this Hierarchy is syncretistic,
that is, composite, taken from different sources, and built up into
a unity. Seraphim and Cherubim are from the Hebrew. This
68 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
plural word Seraphim comes from a Hebrew root meaning to
“ burn with fire ” , hence, to be inflamed with love. Cherubim
is a curious word, but scholars generally think that it means
“ forms ” . The Seraphim are mystically believed to be red in
color, and the Cherubim dark blue. The Thrones, the Domina­
tions, the Virtues, the Powers, the Principalities, are all taken
from the Christian teachings of Paul in the Epistles, Ephesians
i, 21, and Colossians i, 16, and are distinctly mystic. The two last,
the archangels and the angels, are not at all Christian in their
origin, but are derived in indirect and tortuous descent from the
ancient Greek and Asiatic— especially old Persian— system of
thought which recognized messengers or ministers or transmitters
between man and the spiritual world ; the Greek word angel
originally meant “ messenger ” , and the highest type of these
were called archangels, or angels of the highest degree.
Now the fault, or rather inadequacy, of this Christian system
is that its highest point reached no higher than this god here, a
modification on Greek lines of the Jewish Jehovah ; and it went
no farther below in reach or extent than man himself. The
Ineffable, Unthinkable, on the one hand, and the immeasurable
spheres of beings below man, on the other hand, are ignored. It
was merely a chapter torn out of the Ancient Wisdom and taken
over into Christianity; but small and imperfect as it was, it
provided Christianity with all the mysticism and spiritualizing
thought that saved it from utter materialism in religion during
the Middle Ages.
Let us now take up another Hierarchy, the Jewish scheme of
the Qabbalah. You see that there are nine degrees here, nine
degrees all pendant from the Supreme Self or God. Now the
Jewish Qabbalistic Hierarchy, or Hierarchies, or system of Hier­
archies, is an outgrowth of the teachings and thinkings of the
Jewish doctors or Rabbis, from a time very far back, and is
actually a reflexion of esoteric Babylonian teachings.
As the Book of Genesis (the first few chapters of it at least) is
very largely taken from the Babylonians, so the Jews derived
their Angelology, or system of angels or angelical Hierarchies,
from that same source. Now this teaching found its finest
expression in the Jewish Theosophy, called the Qabbalah (this
word, as said before, meaning to receive— i.e., traditionary lore
handed down from teacher to teacher), and the teaching of the
Hierarchies in the Qabbalah is fundamental, the whole system
being based on i t : it implies the intermingling and the inter­
change of all life and all beings, between low and high, in this
regard exactly as in our own teaching. Hence the Qabbalah is,
so far as it goes, a faithful reflexion of the Esoteric Philosophy.
The Qabbalah, as outlined in the book Zohar— a word meaning
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 69
splendor, this book is often called the “ Bible of the Qabbalists ”
— is in large part exoteric from the Theosophical viewpoint,
because all our teachings, with regard to certain things,
are in the Zohar, but not all the explanations are there, and
this fact makes the book exoteric, in so far as the keys are
lacking.
Now the teaching in the Qabbalah with regard to the Hierarchies
and the Ladder of Life, is, that from the Boundless, or Ain Suph,
down to infinity below, the Ladder of Life consists of steps, or
degrees, or grades, of consciousness and of consciousnesses, and
of being and of beings, and that there is a constant interchange,
an interflow of communication, between these innumerable
grades of the various Hierarchies or worlds. Precisely our teach­
ing— naturally ! The Qabbalistic Hierarchy consists of, or more
accurately is typified by, nine grades or planes or spheres hanging
from a tenth (or a first, if you like), all together making ten. They
bore the following names. The first is called the Crown, the
Primordial Point, the first and highest of the Sefiroth (sometimes
spelt Sephiroth) or the grades, steps, planes, spheres, before
spoken of. The next Sephira is called Wisdom. (We have no
time now to give the Hebrew words here ; they may be found
in any book on the Qabbalah.)1 The next, the third, is called
Understanding, or, perhaps better, Intelligence. These form the
head and two shoulders of the Adam Qadmon, or Archetypal Man,
or Ideal Man. According to the thinking of the Qabbalists, as
these Hierarchies are particularly and sympathetically related to
certain respective parts of the human body, so these three just
spoken of have each its respective relation : certain parts about
the crown of the head, or in the head, or from the head, or
belonging to the head, for the first Sephira; the right shoulder
to Wisdom ; the left to Understanding. The right arm is called
Greatness, or sometimes Love ; the left arm is called Power, or
sometimes Justice, and is considered a feminine quality; the
breast or region of the chest or heart is called Beauty. The right
leg (remember I am speaking generally of the Archetypal Man)
is called Subtility; the left leg is called Majesty, and is con­
sidered a feminine quality. The generative organs are called
Foundation.
Now these make nine. Each of these grades is assumed to
emanate from the one above it. First the Crown; from the Crown,
Wisdom; from the Crown and Wisdom, Understanding; from the
three— Crown, Wisdom, and Understanding— comes the fourth ;
from the four all together comes the fifth; from the five all
together comes the sixth; and so on down to the ninth; and
1 See Jsis Unveiled, II, 213 ; and Theosophical Glossary•
70 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
the ninth, with all the forces and qualities of the others behind it,
0
produces this round being, an egg-shaped container or
" carrier ” , or vehicle, an auric egg, and this auric
egg, as the tenth, is called Kingdom, or sometimes
Dwelling-Place, because it is the fruit or result or
emanation, or field of action of all the others,' manifesting
through these different planes of being.
Now why should the Hierarchies sometimes be numbered or
reckoned as seven, and sometimes as ten ? Because ten is the
most sacred fundamental number in occultism. It is that upon
which the universe is built. The fabric of being is built along the
lines of the decad or ten. The Pythagoreans, members of one of
the most mystic of the ancient Greek schools of thinking, had
what they called the sacred Tetractys, a word referring to the
number four ; and how did they represent this Tetractys ? In
this fashion : First a point above and alone, the Monad; then
two points below that, or the D yad; then three points below
these, or the Triad; and then four points below these, or
the Tetrad—ten points altogether.
They had an oath which they con­
sidered the most sacred adjuration
of the Pythagorean School, which
they uttered when they swore by
the “ Holy Tetractys What is
this oath? It is worth remem­
bering : “ Yea, by the Tetraktys,
which has supplied to our soul
the fountain containing the roots
of everflowing nature ” . This
is just full of profound thought,
blematized (among other things) the procession of beings into
manifestation. First the Primordial point, then the line, then
the superficies, then the cube— 1+ 2+ 3+ 4= 10 .
Now what, finally, is the difference between the system of
seven and that of ten ? The seven is the fundamental number
of the manifested universe; but over the seven hovers eternally
the infinite and immortal Triad, the Unmanifest. This is the key.
Some religions specialize in sevens; but all religions have the
ten, also, in their various numerical schemes.
As H. P. Blavatsky says— we have not time to read her words
in full to-night, although I had intended to read, after finishing
this explanation, her own words on this very subject from her
esoteric Instructions No. 1 (we must remember that this is an
esoteric gathering) and also from The Secret Doctrine— the
number ten is the secret or sephirical principle of the universe,
because on and through this denary system the universe is
Finally, the tetraktys em-
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 71
formed and built. Man (as a whole) is tenfold, the universe (as
a whole) is tenfold, but both are septenary in manifestation.
Every atom, every living being, and every universe is a complete
Hierarchy of ten degrees : three highest considered as the Root,
and seven tower in active manifestation. This Root, or Highest
Triad, is a mystery-teaching, concerning which very little open
explanation is to be found even in the ancient literatures.
In The Secret Doctrine, Volume I, page 98, H. P. Blavatsky
first enumerates certain things which you can see for yourself
in the Stanza there printed, to w it:— “ The Voice of the Word,
Svabhavat, the Numbers, for he is One and Nine ” ; to which
she joins the following as a foot-note :
Which makes ten, or the perfect number applied to the " Creator,”
the name given to the totality of the Creators blended by the Mono­
theists into One, as the “ Elohim,” Adam Kadmon or Sephira— the
Crown— are the androgyne synthesis of the 10 Sephiroth, who stand
for the symbol of the manifested Universe in the popularised Kabala.
The esoteric Kabalists, however, following the Eastern Occultists,
divide the upper Sephirothal triangle from the rest (or Sephira,
Chochmah and Binah [that is, the Crown, Wisdom and Understand­
ing]) which leaves seven Sephiroth. . . .
Then on page 360 (very unfortunately we did not have time
to refer to this at our last meeting) she says here in relation to
other matters : “ The 10, being the sacred number of the universe,
was secret and esoteric . . . ” ; and on page 362 : “ . . . the
whole astronomical and geometrical portion of the secret sacer­
dotal language was built upon the number 10. . . .”
It may be interesting and well worth while to point out here,
that these quotations give the reason why the numerical com­
putations of the Esoteric Philosophy have not yet been satis­
factorily solved by students with a mathematical turn of mind—
because they will persist in working with the number seven,
alone, in spite of Madame Blavatsky’s open hints to the contrary,
for she says openly that the number seven must be used in
calculations in a manner hitherto unknown to Western mathe­
matics. The hint ought to be sufficient in itself alone, because
the seven, considered as a basis for computation, is a very
unwieldy and awkward number with which to calculate. The
subject is alluded to in veiled manner in Instructions No. 1,
page 9, in speaking of Padmapani, or the “ Lotus-handed ”— one
of the names in Tibetan mysticism of the Bodhisattwa Avalo-
kiteiwara. H. P. Blavatsky says, after narrating a legend
concerning this character:
He vowed to perform the feat before the end of the Kalpa, adding
that in case of failure he wished that his head would split into number-
72 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
less fragments. The Kalpa closed ; but Humanity felt him not within
its cold, evil heart. Then Padmap&ni's head split and was shattered
into a thousand fragments. Moved with compassion, the Deity re­
formed the pieces into ten heads, three white and seven of various
colors. And since that day man has become a perfect number, or Ten.
In this allegory the potency of S o u n d , C o l o r , a n d N u m b e r is so
ingeniously introduced as to veil the real esoteric meaning. To the
outsider it reads like one of the many meaningless fairy-tales of
creation; but it is pregnant with spiritual and divine, physical and
magical, meaning. From Amitabha— no color or the w hite glory—are
bom the seven differentiated colors of the prism. These each emit a
corresponding sound, forming the seven of the m u sica l scale. As
Geometry among the Mathematical Sciences is specially related to
Architecture, and also—proceeding to Universals—to Cosmogony,
so the ten Jods of the Pythagorean Tetrad, or Tetraktys, being made
to symbolize the Macrocosm, the Microcosm, or man, its image, had
also to be divided into ten points. For this Nature herself has pro­
vided, as will be seen.
One more citation, in order to finish the subject. On page 15,
H. P. Blavatsky writes shortly as follows :
As the Universe, the Macrocosm and the Microcosm, are ten, why
should we divide Man into seven “ principles ” ? This is the reason why
the perfect number ten is divided into two, a reason which cannot be
given out publicly : In their completeness, i.c ., super-spiritually and
physically, the forces are T e n : to wit, three on the subjective and
inconceivable, and seven on the objective plane. Bear in mind that
I am now giving you the description of the two opposite poles : (a) the
primordial triangle, which as soon as it has reflected itself in the
" Heavenly M an/' the highest of the lower seven— disappears, returning
into “ Silence and Darkness ” ; and (b) the astral paradigmatic man,
whose Monad (Atm&) is also represented by a triangle, as it has to
become a ternary in conscious Devachanic interludes.
CHAPTER VIII
T R A C E S OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY IN GENESIS.
The oldest religions of the world— exoterically, for the esoteric root or founda­
tion is one— are the Indian, the Mazdean, and the Egyptian. Then comes the
Chaldaean, the outcome of these— entirely lost to the world now, except in its
disfigured Sabaeanism as at present rendered by the archaeologists ; then, passing
over a number of religions that will be mentioned later, comes the Jewish,
esoterically, as in the Kabala, following in the line of Babylonian Magism ;
exoterically, as in Genesis and the Pentateuch, a collection of allegorical legends.
Read by the light of the Zohar, the initial four chapters of Genesis are the frag­
ment of a highly philosophical page in the World’s Cosmogony.
The Secret Doctrine (H. P. B l a v a t s k y ), I, io.
The first lesson taught in Esoteric philosophy is, that the incognisable Cause
does not put forth evolution, whether consciously or unconsciously, but only
exhibits periodically different aspects of itself to the perception of finite Minds.
Now the collective Mind— the Universal— composed of various and numberless
Hosts of Creative Powers, however infinite in manifested Time, is still finite when
contrasted with the unborn and undecaying Space in its supreme essential aspect.
That which is finite cannot be perfect. . . .
The Hebrew Elohim, called in the translations " God," and who create
" light," are identical with the Aryan Asuras. They are also referred to as the
" Sons of Darkness ” as a philosophical and logical contrast to light immutable
and eternal. . . . The Zoroastrian Amshaspends create the world in six days or
periods also, and rest on the Seventh ; whereas that Seventh is the first period
or " day," in esoteric philosophy (Primary creation in the Aryan cosmogony).
It is that intermediate /Eon which is the Prologue to creation, and which stands
on the borderland between the uncreated eternal Causation and the produced
finite effects ; a state of nascent activity and energy as the first aspect of the
eternal immutable Quiescence. In Genesis, on which no metaphysical energy
has been spent, but only an extraordinary acuteness and ingenuity to veil the
esoteric Truth, " Creation " begins at the third stage of manifestation. " God "
or the Elohim are the " Seven Regents " of Pymander. They are identical with
all the other Creators.
Ibid., II, pp. 487-8.
T
H IS evening we open our study with the following
citation from the first volume of T h e S e c r e t D o c tr in e ,
page 224:
Mankind in its first prototypal, shadowy form, is the
offspring of the Elohim of Life (or Pitris) ; in its qualitative and
physical aspect it is the direct progeny of the “ Ancestors,” the lowest
Dhy&nis, or Spirits of the Earth; for its moral, psychic, and spiritual
nature, it is indebted to a group of divine Beings, the name and charac­
teristics of which will be given in Book II. Collectively, men are the
handiwork of hosts of various spirits*; distributively, the tabernacles of
those hosts; and occasionally and singly, the vehicles of some of them.
And on page 225, second paragraph :
Man is not, nor could he ever be, the complete product of the " Lord
God ” ; but he is the child of the E lo h im , so arbitrarily changed into
73
74 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
the singular masculine gender. The first Dhyánis, commissioned to
“ create ” man in their image, could only throw off their shadows, like
a delicate model for the Nature Spirits of matter to work upon. (See
Book II.) Man is, beyond any doubt, formed physically out of the
dust of the Earth, but his creators and fashioners were many.
In opening our study this evening it seems advisable first to
speak of two things, a less thing and a greater thing; we take
the less thing first. As has been seen from the beginning of our
studies, as outlined by the Teacher, we have been bringing
forward for our consideration at every one of our meetings,
teachings found in the great religions of the world, mostly of the
past, which are similar to or identical with our own. This has
been done in order to join all these teachings, as found in the old
religions, with the teachings as given by H. P. Blavatsky today,
that is, with Theosophy. This shows the universality of thought
in religions and thereby induces a spirit of kindliness and brother­
hood, and leads to the accentuation of the moral sense which so
greatly lacks in the comparative religious study of the doctrines
of the predominant ancient religions by the mass of scholars in
the Occident today. It does away at one sweep with the egoistic
opinion that “ we are more perfect and morally better than you
are ” , with the idea that we Occidentals are a superior people,
and with the idea that a certain race and a certain religion are,
by the fiat of the Deity, the chosen receptacles or vehicles for the
only truth : that all the other religions are false, and that those
who professed them in ancient times were merely brands prepared
for the burning !
The second thing and the greater, is this. We have constantly
been bringing forward certain religious or philosophical analogies
and certain points of view thereupon which are veritable doctrinal
touch-stones; our aim being that those who may read these
studies, as outlined by the Teacher, shall be enabled to have at
hand, and— through the thoughts therein expressed— to have
clear-set in their own minds, keys by which to test the truth and
reality of the essential or fundamental doctrines of these ancient
religions ; because all these doctrines in their essence and in their
inner meaning, in those old religions, are true. In this sense
Brahmanism is true, in this sense Buddhism is true, likewise
Confucianism, and the doctrines of Laotse called Taoism. They
are all true in that sense.
But all of them have been, in greater or less degree, subject to
the influences of certain creations of human fancy ; and for one
who has not been trained in these studies, it is often difficult to
separate the merely human fancies from the Nature-true teachings
of the ancient Wisdom-Religion. All the ancient religions sprang
from that same source— Theosophy, as it is called today. But
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 75
it is, as said before, sometimes difficult to know what is the
original teaching and what the merely human accretion or
creation. These creations of human phantasy and irreligious
fear are very evident in the two modern monotheistic religions,
which have sprung from Judaism, that is to say in Christianity
and in Islam. In these two the human accretions of phantasy
are very marked ; but in both of them there exists a solid sub­
stratum of mystical thought based on the ancient teachings of
the Wisdom-Religion.
In Christianity it is particularly in the Neo-Pythagorean and
the Neo-Platonic forms, as Christianized somewhat and as
manifested in the teachings of Dionysius, called " the Areo-
pagite ” ; and in the later Mohammedan religion it is manifested
somewhat more distantly in the borrowings from Greek thought
mainly, though also from other sources, as we find them outlined
by the Mohammedan doctors and thinkers, such as Ibn Sina,
commonly called Avicenna in Europe, a Persian, who lived and
wrote at the end of the tenth century ; by Averroes in Cordova,
Spain, properly called Roshd, who flourished during the twelfth
century ; and by another eminent Mohammedan scholar (mention­
ing these three out of many) A1 Farabi, of the tenth century, by
descent a Turk. The Ancient Wisdom also affected the teachings
of Mohammed in a highly mystical form, though greatly changed,
as shown in the Sufi doctrines, which are particularly and mani­
festly of Persian origin, owing their rise to that spiritual-minded
and subtil people, the Persians. These doctrines are a very
welcome contrast with the hard and mechanical religious beliefs
which arose out of the egoism of the crude Arabian tribes of that
period.
Now the main theme of our study this evening is the considera­
tion of the opening verses of the “ Book of Beginnings ” , called
Genesis— the first book in the Law of the Jews. We shall first
read the English translation of these verses as found in the so-
called “ authorized version ” , and of the same chapters we shall
make a translation for ourselves, in which you will be enabled to
see the difference from the former ; and we will explain what the
difference is, and how it comes to be, and for this purpose we
shall have to go into a brief exposition of certain peculiarities of
the ancient Hebrew tongue.
In the “ authorized version ” of the English Bible, called the
version of King James, the Book of Genesis opens as follows,
Chapter I, verse I :
1. In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.
2. And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was
upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face
of the waters.
76 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
3. And God said, Let there be ligh t; and there was light.
4. And God saw the light, that it was good : and God divided the
light from the darkness.
5. And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night.
And the evening and the morning were the first day.
6. And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the
waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.
7. And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which
were under the firmament from the waters which were above the
firmament: and it was so.
8. And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and
the morning were the second day.
9. And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered
together unto one place, and let the dry land appear : and it was so.
10. And God called the dry land Earth ; and the gathering together
of the waters called he Seas : and God saw that it was good.
Verse 26.
And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness:
and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl
of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every
creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.
27. So God created man in his own image, in the image of God
created he h im ; male and female created he them.
Now, in the first place, Hebrew is a Semitic tongue, one of the
company of languages of which Arabic and Ethiopic and Ara­
maean (or Aramaic) and Phoenician and Assyrian are other
members. The Hebrew in which the Bible is written is called
the Biblical Hebrew. It is ancient Hebrew. The language spoken
in Palestine at the time when Jesus is supposed to have lived
upon the earth in Jerusalem and around that district, was
Aramaean, and not Hebrew, which was then extinct as a spoken
language, and of course when he spoke to his disciples he spoke
to them in Aramaean.
The Hebrew language as found in the ancient manuscripts of
the Bible— none earlier, probably, than the ninth century of the
Christian era— is written with 4
4points ” , taking the place of
vowels, because Hebrew writing is a consonantal system— its
alphabet is wholly consonantal. It has the alef, or " a ”, which
is nevertheless reckoned as a consonant. It has the wawt or
“ w ” , and it also is reckoned as a consonant; and it has the
yod, or “ y ” , also reckoned as a consonant, but it has no vowel-
signs proper.
Thus, the language is written without true vowels. Further­
more, in the most ancient manuscripts— and certainly it was so
in the original or pre-Christian era texts— the letters are all " run
together ” , following one after another, without separation of
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 77
words. There were some marks possibly, by which certain things
in the text were pointed out as of particular importance; but
the letters followed one another interminably, with no separa­
tion into words, and without vowels. So, you see, there is an
open field for many kinds of speculation, even for very able
Hebrew scholars, as to what any certain combination of letters
found in this endless stream may have originally meant. This
way of writing was universal, practically, in ancient times ; the
earliest Greek and Latin manuscripts of the New Testament are
written in this fashion, which merely followed the ancient custom,
as may still be seen on the ruins of public buildings in Greece and
Rome. Obviously, interpretation, or correct reading, was often
dubious : the reader might be very doubtful of the original sense
of a passage in a manuscript so written.
So much was this the case that there arose in Palestine at an
undetermined date— but we know that it may go back to about
the time of the fall of Jerusalem before Titus, or, say, about the
beginning of the Christian era— a school of interpreters, who
interpreted by what they were pleased to call " tradition ” ,
Masorah, that is to say, " traditional ” knowledge, how the
Hebrew Bible should be read, how these streams of consonants
should be divided up in reading into words, and what vowel-
points should be put there in order to fix the pronunciation in
accordance therewith. This system of “ points ” was probably
not introduced into the text till the seventh century. This school
was called the School of the Masorah, and its expounders and
followers were called Massoretes.
This school of the Masorah reached its fullest development and
completion probably in the ninth century of the Christian era.
But while this school depended upon what it called “ tradition ” ,
there is no certainty of proof that their interpretations of their
own combinations of letters into words were always correct.
They seemed to have got, however, and to have passed down to
posterity, some knowledge of the general original sense.
In order to illustrate this matter, let us take the first five
English words of Genesis : we drop all the vowels, retaining only
the consonants, and we have this: Nthbgnnnggdcrtd. You
could here insert vowels almost ad libitum, in seeking a meaning.
" In the beginning God created ” , and now imagine endless lines
of such consonants!
Add to it the fact that Hebrew writing begins at the right
hand and runs to the left. Furthermore, it begins at what we
would call the end of the book, and runs to the front, as writings
in other Semitic tongues do. This fashion of writing was not
uncommon with other peoples in ancient days. Greek and Latin
writing in ancient times sometimes followed this system, but
78 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
later, as you can see today if you have been in Greece or in
Rome, in the old inscriptions on the temples and elsewhere, it
usually began at the left and went to the right, usually with no
breaks for words. In the very old Greek writings (and elsewhere
too) they also had what they called boustrophedon, from two
Greek words meaning ox-turning, taken from the path followed
by the plowing ox : when it starts, let us say, from one end of a
field it goes to the other end and then turns and goes back and
over it, in the opposite direction, but aside and parallel with
the other line, in plowing its furrows. This method is not followed
in the Hebrew manuscripts of the Bible that we possess.
Now, in beginning our translation of the first verses of Genesis,
we are met, in the very first two words, by a difficulty. These
words can be translated in two or three different ways. The
translation as given in the European Bibles, and as found in the
“ authorized ” English version, is a fairly correct rendering so
far as mere words go ; but anyone who has undertaken transla­
tions from a foreign tongue and particularly from a dead tongue,
and more especially again from a tongue which is a religious
tongue and evidently written more or less in cipher, can realize
the difficulties there lie in picking out the various meanings which
any one word may have, in choosing which is the word that is
best for the translation, which word carries the meaning nearest
to the intention of the writer. The first two words as usually
read are “ be ” and “ reshith ” ; and so divided, their meanings
are as here follow: Be means in, reshith means beginning, this
second word being a feminine form, and coming originally from
the masculine word Resh, or Rosh, meaning (among several other
things) head, chief part, first part. Hence we may translate Be
rishith as “ In first part ” , or ” In highest part ” , etc.
But this same combination of letters— Brashith— could also be
translated (by dividing differently) as Bore, one word, a verb, and
shith, another word, a noun ; meaning Bore, or “ forming ” , and
sMth, an “ institution ” , “ establishment ” , " arrangement ” .
“ Forming the establishment (or arrangement) ”— of what ?
The text goes on to say what is arranged or established— By
arranging “ formed the Elohim Heaven and Earth.”
Furthermore, the word resh, or rosh, above selected, may also
mean “ head ” as before said, signifying " wisdom ” , or " know­
ledge ” : hence, “ In wisdom the Elohim formed Heavens and
Earth ” . Remember, it is permissible to put in vowels almost at
choice, because vowels do not exist in the original text of the
book, in the Bible, itself; hence the opening for more than
merely one interpretation.
Risk, or r6
sh, then, also means “ head ” ; it also means
“ wisdom ” ; it also means ” host ” or " multitude ” . So here
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 79
we may select still another— a fourth— translation: Beresh, “ in
multitude ” , or “ by multitude Yithbdre would then be the
next word, “ formed Elohim. ” , Here comes again another
remarkable change in meaning— and I am making these remarks
in order to point out how the Hebrew text of the Bible may bear
many translations. Supposing then that we divide the first
fourteen Hebrew letters of the text into the following word-
combinations : Be-resh yithbdre Elohim, we get (by using yithbdre,
which is one of the forms of the Hebrew verb, called the reflexive
form, meaning action upon oneself) the following translation:
" By multitude “ Through multitude, the Gods formed them­
selves ” . What follows in the text ? " into the heavens and the
earth ” . That is : “ In a host (or multitude) the gods formed
(made) themselves into the Heavens and the Earth ” . See the
vast difference in meaning from the “ authorized version This
last translation we believe is the best; it shows at once the
identity of thought with all other ancient cosmogonic systems.
” By multitude formed ” (or " evolved ” : this word Bdrd
means to " fatten ” , to “ shape ” , to “ become heavy or gross ” ,
to “ cut ” , to “ form ” , to “ be born ” , to “ evolve ”)— “ by (or
in) multitude ” or “ through (or in) multitude evolved Elohim
themselves into the heavens and the earth ” .
Now the fourth word, Elohim. This is a very curious word.
The first part of it alone is el, meaning God, divinity, from which
comes the second, a feminine form, eloh, Goddess. 1m is merely
the masculine plural. So, if we translate every element in this
single word, it would mean, " God, Goddess, plural ”— showing
the androgynous essence of the divinities, as it were : the polar
opposites of the Hierarchy ; the essential duality in life.
Verse 2. ” And the earth became ethereal Now the second
word— a verb— in the Hebrew text of the second verse answers
to two Latin verbs : esse, to be, andfieri, to become ; but almost
always its original sense is fieri, to become, like the Greek
gignomai, meaning to become, to grow into a new state of some­
thing. “ And the earth became ” or “ grew into ethereality ” .
The two next words (“ tohfi ” and “ bohu ”) of the text, which we
here translate " ethereality ” , are very difficult words rightly to
interpret. They both mean “ emptiness ” , “ waste ” , “ Immateri­
ality ” , hence “ dissolution ” ; the fundamental idea means
something unsubstantial, not materially gross. We continue our
translation : “ And darkness upon the face of the ethers. And
the Ruahh (the spirit-soul) of the Gods (of Elohim) (fluttered,
hovered) brooding.” The word we translate “ brooded ” is
derived from and means the action of a hen which flutters, and
hovers, and broods over the eggs in its nest. How graphic, how
significant is this figure of speech !
80 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
You see the same thought here that you see in practically all
the ancient teachings; the figure or symbol of the cosmic soul
brooding over the waters of space, preparing the world-egg: that
of the cosmic egg and the divine bird laying the cosmic egg.
" And the spirit-soul of Elohim. brooding upon the face of the
waters ” , says the Hebrew text. Now “ waters ” , as we have
shown before, was a common expression or symbol for space, the
ethereal expansion, as it were. We continue our translation:
" And said (the) Elohim (The Gods)— Light, come-into-being !
and Light came-into-being. And saw (the) Gods the light, that
(it was) good. And divided Elohim between the light and
between the darkness. And called Elohim the light day, and
the darkness called they night. And (there) came-into-being eve,
and (there) came-into-being morn. Day one. And said Elohim
(let there) come-into-being an expanse in (the) midst of the
waters, and let it be a separator (divider) between waters and
waters. And made Elohim (or the Gods) the expanse, and they
separated between the waters which (were) below the expanse,
and between the waters which (were) above the expanse, and (it)
came-to-be so. And called Elohim (the Gods) the expanse
heavens, and (there) came-into-being eve, and (there) came-into-
being morn. Day second. And said Elohim (the Gods) “ (let
there) be-gathered-together (i.e., solidified, condensed) the
waters above the heavens into one place, and (let there) be-seen
the dry-part (the solidified or manifested part) ” (the word means
“ dry ", in opposition to humidity. Humidity means water,
standing for space. It means, therefore, the collected matter
of a planet to be, of a solar system to be, or a universe to be),
" and (it) came-to-be so. And called the Gods the dry-part earth,
and the solidification (gathering-together) of the waters called
they seas. And saw Elohim (the Gods) that (it was) good.”
Now turn to verses 26, 27, 28 of the same, the first, chapter.
" And said (the Gods) Elohim, Let us make humanity (the word
is Adam) in our shadowy image (in our shadow, in our phantom.
The word is tselem), according to our pattern (or model). And
let them descend into the fish of the sea and into the flying
creatures of the heavens, and into the beast, and into all the
earth, and into all moving creatures which move upon the earth.
And formed (or shaped or evolved, the same verb as above,
Bdrd) Elohim (the Gods) humanity in their phantom, in the
shadowy image of Elohim, formed (or evolved) they him.”
Now come two very interesting words, usually translated
" male and female ” , which are two of the meanings respectively
found in the dictionaries; but the root-meanings of these words
are the following: “ thinker and receiver ” (or receptacle):
" thinker and receptacle evolved they them. And blessed them
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 81
the E16him ” , that is, the Elohim blessed them," and said to them
the Elohim, ‘ be fruitful, increase, and fill the earth and so forth.
You see, therefore, that here, merely by using other words
than those usually chosen by Christian translators, or later
Jewish translators, and yet recognised dictionary words, and by
forcing no meanings, we have found the identical meanings of the
Esoteric teachings as outlined in The Secret Doctrine when treat­
ing of these subjects. First the Hierarchy and its manifested
divinities evolving the universe or Kosmos out of themselves,
using the reflexive form of the Hebrew verb hard, as shown
above. Furthermore, a study of the first verse of Genesis will
show us that the evolution treated in it has no relation solely
and especially to the creation of this earth or of any other par­
ticular earth, but is a general doctrine having reference rather to
the first manifestation of material being in ethereal space, and that
the fowls of the air and the fish of the sea and the beasts, which
are spoken of, do not necessarily refer (although they could) to the
particular animals which we know under those names on earth,
but do also refer (in accord with a well known fact of ancient
mythology) to the “ animals of the heavens ” of which we spoke
in our last study, i.e., to every globe of the starry spheres, to
every nebula and to every comet, all such being considered in the
ancient teachings to be a living being, an “ animal ” having its
physical corpus or body, and having behind it its Director, or
Governor, or Divine Essence, or Spirit.
Furthermore, we see that the Elohim evolved Man, Humanity,
out of themselves, and told them to become, then to enter into
and inform these other creatures. Indeed, these sons of the
Elohim are, in our teachings, the children of light, the sons of
light, which are we ourselves, and yet different from ourselves,
because higher, yet they are our own very selves inwardly ; for,
in fact, the Elohim, became, evolved into, their own offspring,
remaining in a sense still always the inspiring Light, within— or
rather above— according to the interpretation authorized by the
very words chosen from the dictionary— and flaunting no rule of
Hebrew grammar. For, following the ancient teachings of the
Esoteric Philosophy, and strengthened by exactly similar thought
in the Babylonian religious teachings from which these Hebrew
teachings originally came, we see that the Elohim projected
themselves into the nascent forms of the then “ humanity ” ,
which thenceforward were " men,” however imperfect their
development still was.
What were these Elohim, these divinities, these Gods ? In the
hierarchical system of the Qabbalah they are the sixth in deriva­
tion from above, from the first or the Crown, and thus are by no
means the highest. They were, cosmogonically, the manifested
82 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Formers, or Weavers, of the Web of the Universe. Jehovah,
spoken of in the second chapter of Genesis, is the third angelic
potency, counting downwards from the Crown— the summit of
the Hierarchy of the Qabbalah.
In chapter five of Genesis, verses i and 2, there is ap interesting
expression. We translate : “ This (the) book of the generations
of humanity (Adam). In the day of Elohim (of the Gods) evolving
humanity, in the pattern (or model) of the Elohim, made they
him. Thinker-and-receptacle made they them, and blessed them
and called their name humanity (or Adam) in the day of their
making.” Evidently, it is not here question of a single human
pair, of a man and a woman in our sense, but of nascent androgy­
nous humanity, and they had one name, Adam, and their attributes
were thinker and casket (or receptacle) : ethereal beings—
children of the Elohim— who are themselves— capable of thinking
and of receiving and understanding and developing under the
lessons which were to follow from their incarnations in the lower
fleshly beings they themselves evolved, and signified under the
terms as set forth here— the “ fowls ” of the ‘‘ air ” , and the
“ fish ” of the “ sea ” , and every living thing which moveth
upon the face of the earth.
These ancient writings have more than one mystical or esoteric
application, or, as H. P. Blavatsky says, they have more than
one key. But, again, what or who were these Elohim ? They
were our theosophical monads. It is curious, by the way, that
Leibnitz, the great Slavic-German philosopher, evolved a theory
of monadic evolution which is singularly like our own in some
respects. For him, the universe was replete with progressing
entities, which he called “ monads ”, spiritual beings which
evolved through the forces innate in themselves, yet acting and
reacting upon each other— a faithful echo, in so far as it goes, of
the Ancient Wisdom-Religion.
Again, what do we mean when we speak respectively of
emanation, evolution, and creation ? Emanation and evolution are
closely similar in meaning. Emanation is from a Latin word
meaning “ flowing out ” , and in all the ancient teachings of
importance the idea was that the Gods actively, transitively,
“ flowed out ” from themselves their offspring or children.
Evolution is also a Latin word and means “ rolling out ” ,
“ unfolding ” , something which is unfolded ; and obviously a
thing which is “ flowed out ” , using the words “ flowed out ”
transitively, is also unrolled out, unfolded out.
Now creation originally in its Latin sense meant practically
the same as does this Hebrew word Bard. It meant ‘‘ making ” ,
“ shaping ”, “ carving ” , “ cutting ”— of course out of pre­
existing material or matter, and the Christian theory (which was
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 83
more or less that of the Jews in their later days) that God made
the world “ out of nothing ” , is preposterous, absurd, both
historically and linguistically. It is founded on no ancient
teaching whatever, and it arose naturally enough, in a sense,
from the monotheistic mania, which endeavored to make God
extra-cosmic, apart from the universe, and above it, a pure spirit,
having no relation of ineluctable union with his creatures, God
the " Father and Maker ” of them, and yet an absolute personal
non-entity— having no " body, parts, or passions ” , yet a Person
withal!! Of course the two concepts are contradictory and
mutually destructive, and had we the time it would be easy to
dilate further the preposterous absurdity of which we speak.
We can see, therefore, in closing our study this evening, that
it is very difficult to say which of these three : Emanation,
Evolution, Creation, is first in the order of procession. Was it
emanation, followed by evolution, followed by creation ; or was
it evolution, followed by emanation, followed by creation ? Cer­
tainly, creation— in its original sense of shaping, forming— comes
the last of the three, as is easily shown. The difficulty lies in the
fact that in every cosmic act of emanation we immediately
perceive an act of evolution or unfolding; and in every act of
evolution we immediately perceive an act of emanation. Every
monad pari passu passes from one into the other, just as all
mankind evolved pari passu from one into the other. We should,
probably, say that emanation, evolution, creation, work simul­
taneously and co-ordinately, during manifestation.
But taking the question from a purely philosophical standpoint,
it is probably accurate and best to say that the first step from
what we call the Unmanifest into the Manifest is emanation, a
flowing out from its source of a monad or rather a host of monads,
which, as they in turn follow the pattern set for them by their
source and their Karmic past, grow darker, and more material,
proportionately as they recede from their central fount of life ;
and, again, as they emanate, they also evolve, bringing out from
within that which they innately are or have, and they do this in
accordance with the karmic lines or patterns upon which we have
faintly touched in previous studies, when speaking of the Skan-
dhas, because every act of emanation and of evolution begins a
new life-cycle following the pralaya or rest-period of a former life-
period or manvantara. Then finally, when the period of self-
consciousness is reached in the cyclical progression of evolution,
comes a period of will, conscious choice, when man begins to
“ create ” or fashion voluntarily; that is, through the exercise
of his will and his intuition and his intellect, he carves his own
destiny and likewise affects the world creationally which exists
around him.
C H A P T E R I X
OUTLINE OF ESOTERIC COSMOGONY. GLOBES, ROUNDS AND
RACES ! COSMIC TIME-PERIODS.
Can one fail to recognise in Creuzer great powers of intuition, when, being
almost unacquainted with the Aryan Hindû philosophies, little known in his day,
he wrote :—
" We modern Europeans feel surprised when hearing talk of the Spirits of the
Sun, Moon, etc. But we repeat again, the natural good sense and the upright
judgment of the ancient peoples, quite foreign to our entirely material ideas upon
celestial mechanics and physical sciences . . . could not see in the stars and
planets only that which we see : namely, simple masses of light, or opaque bodies
moving in circuits in sidereal space, merely according to the laws of attraction
or repulsion ; but they saw in them living bodies, animated by spirits as they saw
the same in every kingdom of nature. . . . This doctrine of spirits, so consistent
and conformable to nature, from which it was derived, formed a grand and unique
conception, wherein the physical, the moral, and the political aspects were all
blended together. . . . ” (Égypte, pp. 450 to 455.)
It is such a conception only that can lead man to form a correct conclusion
about his origin and the genesis of everything in the universe— of Heaven and
Earth, between which he is a living link. Without such a psychological link,
and the feeling of its presence, no science can ever progress, and the realm of
knowledge must be limited to the analysis of physical matter only.
The Secret Doctrine (H”
. P. Blavatsky), II, pp. 369-70.
W
E open our study tonight by reading once again
from page 224 and page 225 of The Secret Doctrine,
Vol. I, as follows :
Mankind in its first prototypal, shadowy form, is the
offspring of the Elôhîm of Life (or Pitris) ; in its qualitative and
physical aspect it is the direct progeny of the "Ancestors/’ the lowest
Dhyânis, or Spirits of the Earth ; for its moral, psychic, and spiritual
nature it is indebted to a group of divine Beings, the name and charac­
teristics of which will be given in Book II. Collectively, men are the
handiwork of hosts of various spirits ; distributively, the tabernacles
of those hosts ; and occasionally and singly, the vehicles of some of
them.
And the second paragraph on page 225 :
Man is not, nor could he ever be, the complete product of the
0 Lord God ” ; but he is the child of the E lô h îm , so arbitrarily changed
into the singular masculine gender. The first Dhyânis, commissioned
to “ create ” man in their image, could only throw off their shadows,
like a delicate model, for the Nature-Spirits of matter to work upon.
(See Book II.) Man is, beyond any doubt, formed physically out of
the dust of the Earth, but his creators and fashioners were many.
In our last study we called attention to the first chapter of
84
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 85
the Hebrew Book of Genesis, and translated verses 1 to 10, and
verses 25, 26, and 27 thereof. The intention was to show that
the Ancient Wisdom was outlined even in the Jewish Book of
Beginnings, even as it is elsewhere found in the scriptures of the
other great world-religions. Of course, in all meetings where the
time at one's disposal is limited, such as it is in these meetings,
it is impossible adequately to treat every point of interest, and to
deal with every phase of the subject at once ; for this reason the
Teacher has instructed me first to sketch an outline of a subject
under discussion, and in later studies to return to the details.
Now in continuation of our study of the esoteric sense under­
lying this first chapter of Genesis, we must point out that this
chapter does not deal with man as we now know him. The
“ man ” spoken of in this first chapter is the spiritual being
which descended into matter in the first Round of this man-
vantara, as a spiritual, or rather ethereal, being; and consequently,
when in verse 27 we translated the peculiar phrase, “ Thinker
and receiver formed (or evolved) they him ", we must understand
that this allusion does not refer to sexual man and woman of the
present time. These words, thinker and receiver, refer to the
spiritual nature of the then ethereal vehicles of humanity, not to
our present day man or woman ; and the word receiver can also
be translated receptacle, the vehicle or house of the higher nature.
Also, at the period dealt with in this verse 27 of the first chapter
of Genesis, man in the general sense— humanity— was of double
sex, or androgyne ; hence, obviously, there was no “ woman ”
then. This first chapter practically ignores the first, purely
sexless, state of ethereal Adam ; and enters upon its description of
“ man ” when the latter was already sinking into material
existence as a semi-self-conscious ethereal androgyne. In other
words, the first chapter does not detail the separation of the
sexes, which occurred far later. This general statement is plainly
shown by even the exoteric rendering of the teaching— but let us
read from another chapter of Genesis, verse 5 of Chapter I I :
And every plant of the field b e f o r e i t w a s i n t h e e a r t h , and
every herb of the field b e f o r e i t g r e w : for the Lord God had not
caused it to rain upon the earth, and there w a s n o t a m a n to till the
ground.
“ Man ” had not yet come. Let me preface future explanations
by saying that this second chapter of Genesis deals with the third
and the fourth Rounds of our Manvantara, the latter or fourth
being our present round ; and more particularly with the Third
Root-Race of our Fourth Round ; whereas chapter first is a highly
generalized and succinct Jewish epitome of early cosmogony, and
ends with a similarly brief allusion to Rounds first and second.
86 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
And in verses 19, 20, 21, and 22, we find the follow ing:
19. And out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the
field, and every fowl of the air ; and brought them unto Adam to see
what he would call them : and whatsoever Adam called every living
creature, that was the name thereof.
20. And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air,
and to every beast of the field ; but for Adam there was not found a
helpmeet for him.
21. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and
he slept; and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead
thereof;
22. And the rib, which the Lord God had taken from man, made he
a woman, and brought her unto the man.
As in verse 5 above, I use here the ordinary English translation
of the so-called “ Authorized Version ” , although, as a matter of
fact, a very luminously different translation could be made of
these verses. It would lead us too far from our main point to
do so now.
Now, in the first place, this second chapter records a different
method from that recorded in Chapter I, and a change as regards
the evolving of the ethereal being from the Elohim, having
reference to the making of physical humanity, or “ man ” , from
the " dust of the ground ” (verse 7). In the second place, this
English word rib of verses 21 and 22 should be translated side, the
allusion being to the separation of the androgyne or dual-sexed
humanity of Race the Third of our Fourth Round into sexed
humanity as now existent.
Now Plato in his Banquet, page 189, alludes to this same
historical physiological fact of pre-history, and says that (one of)
the early races of mankind was bi-sexually formed ; that they
had great and terrible powers, and that their wickedness and
ambition waxed very great, so that Zeus grew angry at their
wickedness, and decided to cut them in two, as one would divide
an egg with a hair. This Zeus did; and bade Apollo to render
the two halves more shapely, etc. Apollo so did, and he closed
up the flesh of the two halves. Since then all mankind was man
and woman. A typically Platonic tale, imbodying actual facts
of forgotten history.
This deals with the earliest portion of the Fourth Root-Race,
and much more especially with the middle period of the Third
Root-Race of the Fourth— or present— Round on this planet. Up
to the present time we have not had the need to set forth the
teaching regarding the Rounds and Races; but we are fast
approaching the time when we shall have to develop that subject.
We will now leave, for the present, with a few more words of
explanation, the outline of emanation and evolution as found in
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 87
the Jewish Bible and as outlined by us at our last study and thus
far this evening ; and therefore first, before leaving it, it will be
well to say a few words on the question of the Elohim, a subject
upon which we touched last week.
Elohim is a word frequently found in the Jewish Bible, and is,
as stated in our last preceding lecture, in itself an evidence of
the polytheistic bias, teachings, and beliefs of the ancient Jewish
people. The Bible itself shows it. Usually this word— a plural
common noun— is to be translated as “ Gods ” , But in most
places where it occurs in the Hebrew text it is translated in the
English “ Authorized Version ” as God. There is no true or
solid reason for such a translation ; the proper rendering is
Gods ; but the monotheistic and Christian tendencies of the
translators made them set the translation for what they considered
to be the best interests of the Christian Church, and their God
Almighty; so they translated it in various places by various
names, as for instance, it is translated as " Judges ” in Exodus
xxi, 6; xxii, 8, 9; and in many other places; but the essen­
tial, intrinsic meaning is always Gods, or beings having divine
standing.
We now approach in our studies very difficult and, indeed,
highly esoteric matters. In the first place, let us never forget that
the Elohim, the Gods, who are spoken of under various names
in the various religions of the ancient world as the creators or
rather evolvers or parents of mankind, are spiritual beings— who
are ourselves. And the key to this apparent riddle is found in
the doctrine and exposition of the Hierarchies of individualized
life, as outlined in a former study.
A Hierarchy can be considered as an aggregate unit, as a
collective entity in the same sense that an army is ; neverthe­
less, an army is composed of units ; and yet, again, this army of
beings in any one Hierarchy is indeed from another aspect more
than a mere collective entity, because it is united in its apex, in
what is actually the fount of that Hierarchy. This fount is the
hyparxis or spiritual sun from which all the other nine planes or
classes of the Hierarchy emanate and evolve down to the lowest,
thence beginning a new Hierarchy; even as the hyparxis of any
one Hierarchy is the lowest class or plane of a superior Hierarchy,
and so practically ad infinitum.
Man is a spiritual being throughout, through and through and
through. Matter itself is but one manifestation of spirit. We live
in a universe of spirit, and although matter exists it exists as
Maya, illusion ; not as a mere illusionary nothing, but as some­
thing, as a modality, so to say, of spirit; but as we grow higher
into the upper planes of the hierarchical scale, the maya, for the
sphere of life embraced by that Hierarchy, fades away from
88 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
before our eyes, and we see truth in greater degree and pro­
gressively more widely the higher we go.
With regard to the descent into matter, or falling into matter,
of mankind, that is to say the descent into manifested being of
the spiritual entities, the spiritual hierarchy which man actually
and properly is, we must remember that we cannot understand
this profound subject very well without undertaking an outline
or sketch, more or less complete, of what are the Rounds and
Races ; yet before doing this, we must clear away from our minds
certain scientific conceptions, or rather misconceptions, which
have been implanted in us by intensive teaching from childhood,
and which have for that reason become a part of our mental life.
Two main pillars of our modern science are the following :
first, the doctrine of the Conservation of Energy: that is to say,
that the amount of force or of energy in the universe is constant,
and no increase can be created to add unto it, and no amount can
be taken away from i t ; the second great pillar is the doctrine
of the Correlation, or the Convertibility, of Forces: that is to
say, that any force can, at least theoretically, be converted into
some other force, as mechanical motion into electrical and
electrical into mechanical, and so forth as regards the other
forces working in matter.
Now these two theories or doctrines of science do make an
approach in certain respects to the esoteric conception of the
wonderful element back of and causative of all the changes in
Nature, but nevertheless the conception of the Esoteric Philosophy,
as our Teachers have shown it to us, cannot accept either of these
two doctrinal pillars of science as thus conceived. First, the
doctrine of the Conservation of Energy. It is perfectly true that
no “ new ” force can be “ created ” , and it is likewise perfectly
true that no energy or force can ever be utterly lost. Forces are
not converted or transformed, as the twin doctrine of science has
i t ; it is possible, however, for a force to pass from one plane of
being into another— to come into one plane from a higher, or,
indeed, from a lower. In other words, it is possible for a force-
or energy-element outside of some plane to enter into being and
manifestation upon it. Hence, the materialistic doctrine of a
universe of dead, lifeless, non-vital matter— nothing above it
or beyond it or below it or through it— cannot be accepted by
the students of the Esoteric Philosophy.
As regards the correlation or Convertibility of Energy. It is
true, in one sense, that all the forces in the universe are correlated.
It is a fundamental axiom of Theosophy that the Universe, our
Universe, any Universe, is a living organism, and hence that its
energies or forces, and all of them, are correlated ; but this does
not mean that one force can become another. The idea offends the
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 89
very essence, the very foundation of the Esoteric teaching with
regard to manifestation, its Hierarchies, and individual lives—
all offspring of the one life. What happens is rather th is:
That one force is not turned into or converted into another, but
evokes or calls forth or arouses into active life or manifestation
a " force ” which was not “ latent”— a curious contradiction of
sense— but which was in equilibrium. When the modern scientist
speaks of latent or potential energy, it is to the Occultist a con­
summate logical absurdity, the very name energy or force meaning
activity, and to talk about a “ latent force ” is like talking about
“ latent activity ” or “ dead life ” , or a square triangle, or a flat
sphere. It is impossible as long as we base our conception on
the scientific postulates. But— and note this well, please: a
Theosophist, an Occultist, could use this phrase “ latent force ” ,
because in his mouth the phrase has a meaning and sense.
For instance, a spiritual— hence latent or non-material— force
is not ” converted ” into matter ; a material force is not ” con­
verted ” into spirit. Why ? Because spirit and matter, or force
and matter, are not two, but fundamentally and essentially one.
Throughout the long period of manvantaric time there is a gradual
evolution of one thing into another, but this procession of life is
not accomplished along the lines or by the methods of the scientific
theories which apply in the doctrine called the Convertibility of
material Energy. The latter is a dream to u s: it does not
exist.
This is, in fact, a subject which we shall have to develop more
fully at a later period of our study, but we come now to the
question of the descent of spiritual and then ethereal man into
matter, down the ten steps of the Hierarchical scale. We saw in
a former study that this descent was begun by the entrance
through a laya-center of the spiritual entities seeking mani­
festation on lower planes, the time having struck for them to
open their great Maha-Manvantara or the world-period which
was to follow. As soon as the spiritual essences touched the high­
est degree of the lower plane, our fourth-matter plane, it stirred
the particular laya-center therein to which they were directed
by karmic energy, into corresponding activity or sympathetic
life. Ths first manifestation thereof as seen from the same plane
was the nebula, a cloudy nebula; the second stage, aeons later,
was a spiral nebula ; and the third, aeons still later, was an annular
nucleated nebula, like a ring with a globe in the center; the
latest stage, before the evolving body settled into life as a planet,
was a comet, directed or drawn to that particular solar system or
sun to which it. was karmically related in the former Planetary
Manvantara.
Now the Life-Cycle, or Manvantara, of a planet, consists
90 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
objectively of seven Rounds, or smaller manvantaras, around
seven globes ; but this is preceded by three elemental cycles—
ten in all. The first three stages or cycles, call them the three
elemental Rounds, if you will, are on the three archetypal planes
above the seven; this period is not yet really ethereal mani­
festation : it is the first descent of the Arupa (or bodiless) beings,
of spiritual nature, into sub-spiritual manifestation ; but when
the third or lowest of the three archetypal planes has been
traversed, by that time the life-wave or life-essence has con­
solidated sufficiently in ethereal matter to form an airy shape
or ethereal globe. This globe thence starts on the manvantaric
cycle down into matter, a cycle which proceeds in several stages,
actually seven, and upon and in seven globes, as already stated.
During the first Round, upon the first globe, the life-wave has
to complete a Ring consisting of seven Root-Races on that
globe ; after, or rather at, the end of the evolution of each Root-
Race, respectively, its (the Root-Race’s) surplus energy is there­
upon exploded or protruded into the sphere lower and there
forms the first, second, third, etc., element of the second globe
of the first Round ; the life-energy or life-wave has to run a ring
of seven Root-Races in and upon that second globe, and when
each such Root-Race has reached its end there, its surplus energy
is thereupon exploded or protruded exactly as before into a
magnetic center below it, and the seven there, after all have
arrived, form the third globe, and so on till the seven globes are
formed. This is the first Round. Beginning with the second
Round on the seven globes, the process is altered in important
particulars, because all the seven globes are already formed, as
globes.
At the end of the first Round there is a planetary Obscuration
or Rest-Period, when the entities leave the last globe, the seventh,
and enter into a (lower) nirvanic period of manvantaric repose,
answering to the devachanic or between-life-states of the human
entity between its respective lives. And so also at the end of
the second Round, and of the third, when we reach the fourth,
which is our present Round.
As the Life-Wave cycles down into matter, it grows with every
yuga (or Age) grosser, and more material, until the middle of the
fourth Round (ours), when it begins to ascend. Every Round is
grosser than its preceding one until the present, our fourth, the
most material, is reached. This descent is called the “ Shadowy
Arc ” , or " Cycle of Darkness ” . We have, already, passed the
lowest or middle period of the fourth Round, and in consequence
now have begun the ascending arc, or the “ Luminous Arc ” ;
we have three and a half more rounds to run before we reach the
and of the Kalpa, or Planetary Manvantara, when, the great
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 91
Nirvana or para-Nirvana of the entire septenary Planetary
Chain of the seven globes takes place.
Now as regards the geometrical outline of the course followed
by this descent into matter, we may consider it to be in the form
of an epicycloid. Let me try to explain diagramatically what is
here meant by an epicycloid. An epicycloid is formed when a
point on a small circle, which runs around and upon the convex
side of the circumference of a larger circle, traces a curve which
touches the circumference of the larger circle at the beginning and
end of each revolution of the smaller circle thereupon, as at
A and B in the figure. The curve
A-B is the epicycloid. For instance,
this figure shows the two circles: we
will say that the point on the smaller
circle begins its curve at A, rolling
upwards to the left; at B, the point
on the smaller circle has completed
a full revolution; the curve A-B is
the epicycloid.
Any point on this smaller circle
as the latter rolls along the out­
side of the circumference of the larger circle will describe or
generate a curve, which is an epicycloid ; and as there is a geo­
metrical relation between the commensurable radii of any two
circles: for instance, if the radius of this smaller circle is one
and the radius of the larger circle is seven, the proportion being
1:7, the rolling point will describe or generate seven arcs or cusps
around and upon the circumference of the larger circle.
Now each one of these seven arcs represents here, geometrically,
a globe of a Round. (Equally well does it represent geometrically
one of the seven Root-Races on each globe during any Round.)
In the first Round, the Life-Wave, starting from the seventh or
highest plane, after its third full elemental cycle of and in the
arupa world, begins to form the rupa or form-world ; and as the
smaller circle rolls along the circumference of the greatest cycle,
so to say, the Life-Wave (or globe) progressively grows more
material, each one of these arcs which the cycling smaller circle
makes on the circumference of the greater, representing a sphere
of being, and also geometrically represents the Life-Wave of the
planet beginning the evolution of material existence, “ rising
upward ” (or increasing in material density) until it reaches
its maximum of materiality, and then " descending ” or decreasing
in materiality until it again touches the plane of departure, the
circumference of the greater circle (or cycle).
The process by which the spirit descends into matter is called
in Sanskrit Pravritti (which we may paraphrase into English as
92 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
“ earth-birth ” , or “ earth-day ”), practically the same word as
evolution or emanation, in our modern tongues; the process of
entering upon or ascending along the “ luminous arc ” , ultimately
to find itself home again in the spiritual world, is called Nirvritti.
Both words are from the Sanskrit root vrit, meaning to revolve,
or to roll. The prefix pra answers to the preposition forth or
forward, and the prefix nir to the prepositional phrases “ out of ” ,
" away from ” , hence backwards, or reverse action. Pravritti is
therefore used to mean the evolution or emanation of matter, which
is equivalent to the involution of spirit; Nirvritti, the evolution of
spirit— the reverse process.
What are the durations of the time-periods during which the
Life-Wave manifests in the Manvantara of seven Rounds, and in
the seven respective planets of each Round ? As our first great
Teacher, H. P. Blavatsky, has told us, the doctrines concerning
the time-periods have been from immemorial time considered too
esoteric to be given to the outward world in anything at all
approaching fulness of teaching or detail, but throughout the
teachings that have been openly given there are many hints of
immense value. For instance, the time required for one Round—
that is the cycle from globe A to the last globe of the seven (we
will call it Z), starting from the Root-Manu or collective “ human­
ity ” of globe A and ending with the Seed-Manu or collective
“ humanity ” of globe Z— is called a Round-manvantara, and its
period is 306,720,000 years. It is called " manvantara ” because
it is the “ reign of one Manu ”— say a certain quality of Humanity.
Now this word " manvantara ” is Sanskrit and means between
manus, i.e., between a Root-Manu on globe A and the Seed-Manu
on globe Z, for a RoM«rf-Manvantara. Now to this period of
306,720,000 years must be added the length of the Sandhi,
meaning ” connexion ” , or " junction ” , or interval, according to a
certain method of calculation, necessary in order fully to complete
the evolution of the planet for the Round ; this sandhi is of the
length of a krita-yuga, or 1,728,000 years, which brings the com­
plete period or term of a Rowwif-Manvantara to 308,448,000 years
of mortals.
As has already been stated, there is, after the end of every
round, an obscuration which also lasts for a certain period which
we do not here specify ; but this can be found by any reader of
these studies who cares to give the subject thought, and to be
guided by the teachings already given.
But how long a period do the seven Rounds take for their
course ? What is the period of a maha-manvantara, or great
manvantara, sometimes called a Kalpa, after which the globes
no longer go into mere obscuration or repose, but die utterly ?
The period of the Maha-Manvantara or Kalpa is also called a
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 93
“ Day of Brahma ” , and its length is 4,320,000,000; and the
“ Night of Brahma ” , the planetary rest-period, which is also
called the para-nirvanic period, is of equal length. Seven Rounds,
as said, form a Day of Brahma.
These figures are the Brahmanical figures, and they are also
the figures of esoteric Buddhism (for we insist that Buddhism
has an esoteric doctrine); the root-number 432, as any student
knows, is also found in the chronological doctrines of ancient
Babylonia; it is likewise the real meaning in the chronological
line of the Pythagorean Tetraktys, 1-2-3-4, the 432 springing
from the unity or monad, a subject of which we spoke in our last
study.
We are also told that the duration of a planet's life, i.e.t of a
planetary chain of seven globes, is one of 360 divine days, corre­
sponding to a divine year, and that Brahma's life (or the life of the
universal system) is one hundred of those divine years— expressed
in 15 figures of years of mortals. A planetary manvantara is also
related to the duration of life of a solar system; a planetary
manvantara (or seven Rounds) is a " day ” of Brahma, as already
said; each of these days lasting 4,320,000,000 years of mortals,
which really means the life-time of a planet during its seven rounds,
and corresponding to one incarnation of a human life on earth.
How long, then, does Brahma live in any one of his manifested
universes, which we know are called the “ out-breathings of the
Self-Existent ” ? We can calculate it— 4,320,000,000 times 100,
times 360, or in other words, 36,000, lives has any planet to live
before the prakritika-pralaya (or the elemental pralaya) sets in,
the end of that life (or pravritti) of the Universal system.
What happens when comes the end of a solar system ? At a
former meeting we spoke of the “ bells of pralaya ” . It was with
no intention of attempting to be rhetorical, or of employing
oratorical phraseology that we used this phrase. We have no
such ambition. We chose the words because the teachings are
that when the great (or maha-) pralaya comes upon the planets
of any system, and their sun, then strange noises of various
kinds are heard in the air of a planet belonging to such a solar
system; and these noises are repeated in miniature, so to say,
not only at the end of the planetary manvantara (or the life-time
of the planet), but also in still smaller miniature at the end of
every Round. These phenomena are likewise alluded to in other
religions than the Indian, as for instance in the Christian and Jewish:
in Revelation, vi, 14; and in Isaiah, xxxiv, 4. The Christian
writers speak of the time, 2 Peter, iii, 10,12, when the “ elements
shall melt with the fervent heat ” , and " the heavens shall pass
away with a great noise ” , but they " look for new heavens and a
new earth ”— or a new planetary manvantara— and allude to
H
94 FUNDAMENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
pralayas as the -time when " the heaven departed as a scroll
when it is rolled together” , etc. These allusions to pralayic
disintegration are figurative to a certain extent, but are suffi­
ciently along the lines of the ancient Eastern thought to show us
whence they came— from the archaic Wisdom-Religion (Theo­
sophy) of the Orient. We are told that some of the strange
Noises that will occur towards the end of the prakritika-manvan-
tara, before the cosmic or prakritika-pralaya sets in, are strange
hollow boomings, strange cracklings as of musketry-fire, strange
bell-like ringings as of the snapping of immense metallic belts.
Now the sun is both the heart and the brain of our solar system,
and sends seven-faceted life into every atom of its universe, the
solar universe of which we and our planet Terra are a part. The
sun itself is in some respects a vampire, but it is also pre-eminently
and essentially a life-giver; it is, cosmogonically, our Elder
Brother, and not at all our physical parent as modern scientific
wiseacres would have i t ; it is also in a vital sense our Father-
Mother, because through it, from planes superior to our own,
come down the life-streams from worlds (systems) above ours—
yet our planet— as all the other planets— also in a relative degree
receives these life-streams, as every individual atom and every
human being, in the smallest miniature thereof, receives the same
individually from the Inmost of the Inmost within itself or him­
self. This is, as you will remember was stated in former studies,
the same spiritual life; but cosmically, that is to say, with regard
to the universe, the sun is the brain and heart of our system,
vitalizing and informing the endless hosts of beings under its
systemic sway.
We do not see the (true) sun. The sun is not burning, or
incandescent. Heat exists around the sun, but it is not from
burning gases or incandescence. We see the sun’s robes, or
reflexion, but we do not see the sun itself. It is, in very truth, a
spiritual thing, and we think we receive our entire supply of heat
and light from it because the forces flowing from the sun act in
conjunction and reactively with the forces on our own earth—
forces working in the universal nature around us. If most of our
light is due to the sun, this is not the case with 75 per cent of the
heat which we receive, which comes— most of it— from our own
globe and its forces, and especially from the immensely thick
clouds of cosmic dust which fills all space. The electro-magnetic
forces at work between this cosmic dust and our earth furnish
most of the terrestrial heat.
I wish this evening, before closing, to call your attention to
the fact that the ancient initiate-astronomers,when speaking of the
seven sacred spheres of our universe, the seven or nine in which
the bodies of the solar system and the stars were set— beyond
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 95
which was the Empyrean or the fiery sphere— desired to convey a
meaning which is now lost— for the masses. There was a meaning
of deep and wide significance also in their geocentric teachings.
They knew as well as do we (and we have proofs of it), that the
earth and the other planets whirl around the sun in elliptical
orbits, but they had a reason for teaching the geocentric doctrines
in public, and some day we shall have need to go into an analysis
and proof of this assertion.
Let us close our evening's study in calling attention to the fact
that Theosophy is a doctrine of hope ; it is a doctrine of spiritu­
ality ; it is a doctrine which refines and elevates man; it is a
doctrine in which there is room for the humblest to understand
something and for the brightest and highest and most spiritual
of us to put their feet on the lowest steps of that spiritual stair
along which they may climb in hierarchical ascendings up to the
highest, not only in our own planet, hand in hand with the great
Buddhas of former times, and of the times to come, but beyond
our planet and beyond our own solar system into those illimitable
spiritual spheres in which the solar system now exists, and through
which we derive our life— spiritual, mental, psychical, pranic, and
physical.
C H A P T E R X
THE DOCTRINE OF SWABHAvA— SELF-BECOMING----CHARACTERISTIC
INDIVIDUALITY. MAN, SELF-EVOLVED, HIS OWN CREATOR.
“ MONADOLOGIE ” OF LEIBNITZ CONTRASTED WITH TEACHINGS
OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY.
The Monad emerges from its state of spiritual and intellectual unconscious­
ness ; and, skipping the first two planes— too near the Absolute to permit of any
correlation with anything on a lower plane— it gets direct into the plane of
Mentality. But there is no plane in the whole universe with a wider margin,
or a wider field of action in its almost endless gradations of perceptive and
apperceptive qualities, than this plane, which has in its turn an appropriate
smaller plane for every “ form," from the " mineral " monad up to the time
when that monad blossoms forth by evolution into the Divine Monad. But all
the time it is still one and the same Monad, differing only in its incarnations,
throughout its ever succeeding cycles of partial or total obscuration of spirit, or
the partial or total obscuration of matter— two polar antitheses— as it ascends
into the realms of mental spirituality, or descends into the depths of materiality.
The Secret Doctrine (H. P. Blavatsky) I, p. 175.
. . . . In other words, no purely spiritual Buddhi (divine Soul) can have an
independent (conscious) existence before the spark which issued from the pure
Essence of the Universal Sixth principle— or the Over-soul— has (a) passed
through every elemental form of the phenomenal world of that Manvantara, and
(b) acquired individuality, first by natural impulse, and then by self-induced and
self-devised efforts (checked by its Karma), thus ascending through all the degrees
of intelligence, from the lowest to the highest Manas, from mineral and plant,
up to the holiest archangel (Dhy&ni-Buddha). The pivotal doctrine of the
Esoteric philosophy admits no privileges or special gifts in man, save those won
by his own Ego through personal effort and merit throughout a long series of
metempsychoses and reincarnations.
Ibid., I, p. 17.
T
HE general text of our study this evening is found in
The Secret Doctrine, Volume I, page 83, stanza 3,
verse 10 :
IO. FATHER-MOTHER SPIN A WEB WHOSE UPPER END IS
FASTENED TO SPIRIT (P u ru sh a ), THE LIGHT OF THE ONE DARKNESS,
A N D THE LOWER ONE TO MATTER (P ra kriti) ITS (the S p ir it's) SHADOWY
E N D ; AND THIS WEB IS THE UNIVERSE SPUN OUT OF THE TWO SUB­
S T A N C E S MADE IN ONE, WHICH IS SWABHAVAT.
(a) In the M&ndukya (Mundaka) Upanishad it is written, “ As a
spider throws out and retracts its web, as herbs spring up in the
ground . . . so is the Universe derived from the undecaying one ”
(1, 1, 7). Brahm&, as “ the germ of unknown Darkness/' is the material
from which all evolves and develops " as the web from the spider, as
foam from the water," etc. This is only graphic and true, if Brahma
the “ Creator " is, as a term, derived from the root brih, to increase
or expand. Brahma “ expands ” and becomes the Universe woven
out o i his own substance. 96
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 97
The same idea has been beautifully expressed by Goethe, who
says:
" Thus at the roaring loom of Time I ply,
And weave for God the garment thou see’st Him by.”
In the course of our studies we have been advancing stage by
stage, step by step, from general principles, and our course has
been always towards that point of emanation and evolution which
finds itself at the dawn of manifestation, or the opening of Man-
vantara. We have touched upon many subjects but lightly,
because the intricacy of the theme did not at the time permit us
to go into and to follow side-avenues of thought, however attrac­
tive and important they might be ; but these avenues we shall
have to explore as time and opportunity bring once more before
us, in the course of our study, the portals which we have passed
and perhaps have merely glanced into.
As the Teacher has directed, we have brought to the attention
of those who will read these studies certain fundamental natural
principles, as fundamental and important in their respective
bearings as the two foundation-stones of popular Theosophy
today, called Reincarnation and Karman. One of these principles
is the doctrine of Hierarchies, upon which much more could and
should be said than has hitherto been said, and it will be said in
due time.
Another such fundamental principle or doctrine— a true key
opening the very heart of being, and, besides other things, reaching
into the root-meaning of the so-called “ origin of evil " and of the
inner urge towards right and righteousness, which man calls his
moral sense— is that which flows forth from the philosophical
conceptions behind the word Swabhava, meaning, generally, the
essential characteristic of anything; the mediaeval scholastics
spoke of this essentiality of things as their Quidditas, or Quiddity,
— the whatness of anything : that which is its heart, its essential
nature, its characteristic essentiality. The word Swabhava (a noun)
itself is derived from the Sanskrit root Bhti, meaning “ to become ",
or " to be ", and the prefix of the word, the three preceding
letters, sva, is also of course Sanskrit and means " self." The
word thus translated means “ self-becomingness ", a technical
term, a key-word, in which philosophical conceptions of immense
and wide-reaching import inhere. We shall develop some of these
more fully as we proceed with our studies.
In the quotation from the stanzas which we have read this
evening, you will have noticed the word Swabhavat, from the
same elements as is Swabhava, from the same Sanskrit root.
Swabhavat is the present participle of the verb bhut meaning
that which becomes itself, or develops from within outwardly its
98 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
essential self by emanation, evolution; in other words, that which
by self'urge develops the potencies latent in its nature, in its self,
in its Being of being. We have often spoken of the “ Inmost of the
Inmost ” , as implying that “ inmost ” link or root by which we
(and all other things) flow forth from the very essence of the heart
of things, which is our u t t e r s e l f , and we have spoken of it
sometimes with the hand placed upon the breast; but we must
be exceedingly careful not to think that this Inmost of the Inmost
is in the physical body. Let me explain just what I mean.
The Qabbalists divide the planes of nature into which the ten
Sephiroth became— queer English, this, but very accurately and
correctly expressing the thought— into four during manifestation,
and they were called the four '6lamt a word having originally the
meaning of “ concealed ” or " hid ” or “ secret ” , but also used
for time, likewise used almost exactly in the sense of the Gnostic
teaching of “ Aions ” , (aeons) as spheres, Lokas in Sanskrit. The
highest of the Qabbalistic 'olams, or spheres, was f0ldm Atszloth,
meaning the “ aeon ” or " age ” or the " loka ” of " condensation.”
The second was called 'Oldm Hab-Beriah, meaning the aeon or age
or loka of " creation ” . The third in descent and increasing
materiality was called 9
Olam Ha-Yetsirah or loka of Form. The
fourth, last, most material and grossest, was called 'Olam Ha-
'Astahy meaning the aeon or world of " action ” or “ causes ” .
This last plane or sphere or world is the lowest of the four, and is
sometimes called the world of Matter, or, again, of " shells ” ,
man (and other physical entities) sometimes being considered
a shell in the sense of being the garment or the vehicle or “ shell ”
or corpus of the indwelling spirit.
Now psychologically these four spheres were considered as being
copied, or reflected, or as having a locus (place) in the human
body ; and, in order to correspond with the four basic principles
into which the Jewish Qabbalistic philosophers divided man,
Neshdmah (or spirit) was supposed to have its locus in the head,
or rather hovering thereover ; the second, Rdahh (or Soul), was
supposed to have its locus or center in the breast or chest; the
third, the lowest of the active principles, called Nefesh (or the
animal-astral soul), was supposed to have its locus or center in
the abdomen. The fourth vehicle was Guf, or the inclosing shell
of the physical body. The Neshdmah, the highest of all, from
which the others emanated stage by stage,— the Rflahh from the
Neshamah, the Nefesh from the Rtiahh, and the Guf from the
Nefesh (the Guf actually is the linga-Sarira, esoterically, and
secretes the human physical body)— should not be considered so
much in the head as over-shadowing as it were the head and body.
It may be likened to a solar ray, or to an electric ray, or again
to the so-called “ golden chain ” of the great Greek poet Homer
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 99
and the far later Neo-Platonic philosophers, which connects Zeus
and all lower entities; or to the chain of beings in a Hierarchy
linked by their hyparxis with the lowest plane of the next higher
Hierarchy.
Now this “ Inmost of the Inmost ” is in that part of us which
overshadows us, which is above us physically, rather than in us.
And it really is our spiritual Monad. Therefore, before we can
know what we mean by the Swabhava, and the wonderful
doctrine fundamentally emanating therefrom, we must under­
stand what we mean by Monad and the sense in which the word
Monad is used. Those who were students of H. P. Blavatsky
while she was alive with us, and who have studied under our
two other Teachers, W. Q. Judge, and the present one, Katherine
Tingley, will realise the necessity of making our sense clear by
choosing words which shall convey clearly and sensibly, and
without possibility of misconception, the thoughts which lie
behind the words. In European philosophy, monad, as a philo­
sophical word, seems to have been first employed by the great
Italian philosopher, the noted Giordano Bruno, in thought a
Neo-Platonist, who derived his inspiration from the philosophy
of Greece, now called Neo-Platonism ; a more modern use of the
word monad, in a spiritual-philosophical sense, was that of the
Slavic-German philosopher, Leibnitz. Monadism formed the heart
of all his teachings, and he said that the universe was composed,
built up, of monads : that is to say, he conceived them to be
spiritual centers having no extension, but having an inner and
inherent energy of development, the respective hosts of monads
being of various degrees and each one achieving its own develop­
ment by an innate characteristic nature (or Swabhava). The
essential meaning of this, as it is at once seen, is characteristic
Individuality, which is Self, pursuing its own unfoldment and
growing by stages higher and higher through self-unfolding or
self-becoming (or Swabhava). Leibnitz taught that these monads
were connected, spiritually, psychically, and physically, by a
“ law of harmony ” , as he expressed it, which is our Swabhavat—
the Self-Existent, developing during manifestation into the Hosts
of monads, or monadic centers.
Now Leibnitz seems to have taken (at least in part) the main
philosophical conception, as regards his monads, as developed in
his philosophy— in his Monadologie— from the Flemish-Nether-
landish mystic, Van Helmont. This man Van Helmont, however,
took it from Bruno, or, perhaps, directly, as Bruno did, from the
Neo-Platonic philosophers. As far as the basic ideas of Bruno,
Van Helmont, and Leibnitz go, they very much resemble each
other; they resemble also the teaching on this subject of the
Esoteric Wisdom, Esoteric Theosophy, but only in so far as we
100 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
consider manifestation, because the monads themselves, in their
ultimate, enter into the " silence and darkness ” , as Pythagoras
would have put it, when the great Maha-Pralaya or cosmical
Dissolution begins. A monad in the ancient teachings now called
Theosophy— remember that “ Theosophy ” really means the
Wisdom which the Gods or divine beings study, a truly divine
thing— means a spiritual atom— we are compelled here to use
popular language ; and a spiritual atom is equivalent to saying
pure Individuality, the selfness of the Self, the essential nature or
characteristic or Swabhavic core of every spiritual being, the
self of itself. This Esoteric Wisdom derives this Self— not its ego,
which is an entirely different and lower and inferior thing— it
derives this divine Monad, it derives this divine Substance-
consciousness, from the Paramatman (which we have studied
before), the so-called “ Supreme” Self, not that this Supreme
Self is God in the curiously contradictory Christian sense, not
supreme in that sense, but supreme in the sense of absolute,
unconditioned, and all-pervading universality for and in a single
cosmical aggregation of Hierarchies, for it is the summit, acme,
pinnacle, and Source thereof.
Now, if we remember what we have studied in our former
meetings in this connexion, and the conceptions that we figurated
on the blackboard by means of paradigmatic schemes, or diagrams,
we shall recollect that we represented the highest that we could
intellectually conceive of as a triangle, figuring it thus in our
minds— not that this highest actually is a triangle, which would
be ludicrous, but representing it diagrammatically to ourselves
in that fashion; and the highest sphere— in the mathematical
sense of being without physical extension as we conceive of such
— from which all the succeeding ten steps, planes, degrees of any
Hierarchy radiated, we called the Boundless, the Without Bounds,
— the Ain Suph as the Qabbalists said : and that the two aspects
of the Boundless formed, so to speak, the two sides of this divine
triangle, one of these two aspects being Para-Brahman (“ beyond
Brahman ”), and the other being Mulaprakriti (or“ root-nature ” ).
It must be remembered, in this connexion, that any diagram­
matic representation may and often does figurate different
conceptions when the premisses differ. And next, that from this
divine triangle there was a reflexion, as it were, an emanation,
into the lower shadow, into the substance or matter below, the
rays of the upper sun shining into the lower atmosphere, so to say,
and illuminating it, and that this lower illuminated atmosphere
or substance was called the lower monad, and the upper was called
the higher monad ; and that, as the energy or life-waves swept
downwards through the second monad or the lower monad, the
square or manifested nature came into being as the third stage of
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY ioi
evolution. With the premisses before stated, therefore, this upper
triangle, which may be considered as one, or a trinity in unity, is
the upper monad, or the Inmost of the Inmost, the self of the
Self; and the lower triangle is its emanation, its three lines
representing Father, Mother, and Son. The Father, again, may
be considered as the Primal Point of the second or lower triangle,
that is to say the point forming the apex of the triangle, which
is a laya-center through which stream down into our sphere the
manifesting forces which themselves become the universe. (See the
figure infra.)
And herein we may see an example of the philosophical value
of the hierarchical system considered as a representation of
Nature’s symmetrical architecture, because each stage of the
downward progress, each step or plane downwards, is informed,
insouled, by the upper parts which remain above; while the
lower planes or parts are spiritually and ethereally and physically
secreted and excreted step by step, plane after plane, and cast
forth like foam on the substratal waves of life. The physical
nature as we see it even on this our own plane, is, so to speak,
concreted divinity, and it actually is concreted light, because
light is ethereal matter or substance.
Some day we shall have to study this question of spirit and
substance, force and matter, and their relations and interactions,
ioa FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
more thoroughly than we have been able to do thus far in our
lectures.
Now, from the highest of the highest, from what is to us the
unknown of the unknown, the inmost of the Inmost, through all
these planes, there streams down, as it were, the Divine Ray,
passing from one Hierarchy to another Hierarchy below it, and
then to another still lower, and then to a third yet more material,
and so on till the limit of the cosmical aggregate is reached, when
it begins to ascend along the stupendous Round, returning
towards its primal Source. Note carefully that as it descends it
evolves these various Hierarchies from itself ; and on its ascending
Round, draws them back into itself again. Surrounding this
immense spiritual aggregate, we are taught to conceive an aura
as it were, taking the shape of an egg, which we can call, if you like,
following the example of the Qabbalists, the ShecMndh, a Hebrew
word meaning dwelling or vehicle, or what the Esoteric Philosophy
calls the Auric Egg in the case of man, and representing in this
paradigmatic scheme the universe which we see around us in its
highest aspects, for this aura is the very outgrowth of mula-
prakriti; while this mystical line which we draw in the figure as
running down through all the various grades of the Hierarchy, is
the stream of the Self, the Unconditioned Consciousness, welling
up in the inmost of everything.
Now to come back to the word Swabhavat, the " se//-becom-
ing ” , the “ «¿//-Existing ” . It is, in the super-spiritual, following
the above paradigmatic scheme, the second Divine Monad or
second Divine Logos ; or, looking at it in another and lower way,
it is the first cosmic Monad, the reflexion of the primeval or primal
Divine Monad above it, and is the first manifestation or quiver
of cosmic life when the end of universal pralaya having come,
the cry goes forth, so to say, on the watch-tower of eternity,
“ Let there be manifestation and light! ”
The Elohim in a former stage were Monads ; and you remember
that we translated verses 25, 26, and 27 of the first chapter of
Genesis, a translation radically different from that given in any
European translation, and we saw that these E16him said, “ Let
us make man in our own shadow, (or phantom) (that is, in our
own shadow-selves or matter-selves), and in our own pattern ”,
in other words, they made man by becoming him ; in other words
again, Humanity is the lower principles of the Elohim themselves
as Monads.
So the monad is the inmost of ourselves, not as a soul, as a
” gift of God ”, but as the highest part of ourselves; and our very
bodies are concreted spirit, which is on this plane the lowest, the
shadowy end, the matter-end, of the self-Hierarchy which each
one of us is.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 103
Let us remember again that each Hierarchy has its Swabhava,
or specific characteristic. To exemplify it by colors, one Hier­
archy is predominantly blue, another is predominantly red,
another green, another yellow or golden, and so o n ; but each
one has its own forty-nine roots or divisions, forty-nine aspects
of the one underlying Root-Substance common to all, so that of
necessity each one of these forty-nine in its turn develops one of
the other colors. So that, if we could perceive it spiritually, we
should see all nature around us everywhere flashing and corusca­
ting in a most marvelous interplay of colors— a wonderful picture !
This is sheer fact, not a metaphor. And, furthermore, there is
for every Kosmos a cosmic Hierarchy which includes all the
lesser Hierarchies thereof, and each Hierarchy, large or small, is
linked on, above and below, (or outward and inward) to other
Hierarchies, higher and lower, and each separate, individual
Hierarchy consists of nine (or ten) planes or degrees. Seven of
these are, throughout, on the manifesting planes. Hence, a
Hierarchy, strictly speaking, consists of ten planes housing ten
states of matter and ten forces ; but seven thereof are manifesting
forces ; the seven in manifestation run from the arupa (or form­
less) to the rupa (or form) worlds ; and they are all linked together,
co-ordinated together, combined together, beyond present human
conception or understanding.
It is along these lines of spiritual thought that the dogmatic
religious or scientific system quarrels, if we may use this expres­
sion, with the Esoteric Philosophy, because that system is based
— at least as regards the scientific view— upon purely mechanical
and materialistic hypotheses, invented by the scientists of the
last century concerning the nature and action of what is called
“ matter ’’ and " force ”, as if there could in reason be a true
definition or explanation of these two on a basis of fortuitous
mechanicalism arising out of utterly lifeless “ matter ” .
Let us say now, although it is departing a little from our main
theme, that force is simply matter on a higher plane— ethereal
matter, if you w ill; and that physical matter is simplyforce on our
plane : matter actually is naught hut concretedforce ; or, to reverse
the idea, force is nothing but sublimated or etherealized matter,
because the two, matter and spirit, are one. It is best and truest
to say that matter is concreted or compacted force; just as
Nature (matter as we know it) is equilibrated spirit.
Now we may once more return to this wonderful teaching of
Swabhava, after this rather long but necessary explanation or
introduction. The Monad is our inmost Self; each man has his
own— or rather is his own— Monad; each being of whatever
degree or kind has its particular characteristic nature— not
merely the outer or vehicular characteristics that change from
104 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
incarnation to incarnation, and from manvantara to manvantara
— but every entity, high or low, has, so to say, a keynote of its
being, and this is its Swabhava : the selfhood of the Self, essential
characteristic of the Self, by the urge of which the Self becomes
the many selves, producing and manifesting the hosts of varied
qualities and types and degrees. Now note carefully: The
urge behind evolution or development is not external to the evolving
entity but within itself ; and the future results to be achieved in
evolution— that which the evolving entity becomes— lie in germ or
seed in itself; both this urge and this germ or seed, arise out of
one thing, and this is its Sw abhAv a .
Remember what we said in our former study about the nature
and evolution of the universe. What is a— or any— universe ?
It is a self-contained and self-sustained and self-sufficient entity in
manifestation, but is merely one of countless hosts of other uni­
verses, all children of the Boundless ; there is, for instance, an
atomic universe, and a terrestrial or planetary universe, and a
man or human universe, and a solar universe, and so on indefi­
nitely ; yet all hang together, interpenetrate each other, and
form any cosmical aggregate. And how and why ? Because each
universe, great or small, is a Hierarchy, and each Hierarchy
represents and is the development of and is a part of the spiritual
urge and evolving germ arising out of the Self, thereof, of the Self
of each, each developing and evolving its own particular essential
characteristic; and all these forces taken together are the
Swabhava of any entity. Swabhava, in short, may be called the
essential Individuality of any monad, expressing its own charac­
teristics, qualities, and type, by self-urged evolution.
We should note also in passing, that perhaps the most mystic
school in Buddhism, which H. P. Blavatsky says has practically
kept most faithfully to this one of the esoteric teachings of
Gautama-Buddha, is a school still extant in Nepal, which is called
the Swabhavika school, a Sanskrit adjective derived from the
noun Swabhava; this school comprises those who follow the
doctrine of Swabhava, or the doctrine which teaches the becoming
or unfolding of the Self by inner impulse— the ¿'^//-becoming. We
do not, according to it, become “ through the grace of a God ” ; we
become whatever we are or are to be through our own selves; we
make ourselves; derive ourselves from ourselves; become our own
children; have always done so, and will for ever do so. This applies
not only to man, but to all beings everywhere. Herein we see the
root, the force, the meaning, of morals. Responsible for every act
we do, for every thought we think, responsible to the uttermost
farthing, never anything “ forgiven ” , never anything “ wiped
out ” , except when we ourselves turn the evil we have done into
good. We shall have to discuss more fully, some time, the question
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 105
of the “ origin of evil ” which is involved herein. We may note
in passing that this school is called “ atheistic ” and " material­
istic ” , simply because of two reasons: first, the profound
thought of this doctrine is misinterpreted by Occidental scholars ;
second, many of its followers have, in fact, degenerated.
You see immediately the ethical force of such a doctrine as this
of the Swabháva, when it is properly understood. We become, what
we are in germ in our inmost essence ; we also follow and make a
part of (likewise) the type and the course of evolution of the
particular planetary chain to which we belong by affinity, of
which we spoke briefly in our last meeting. We first follow along
the shadowy arc down into matter, and when we have reached
the lowest point of that arc, then, through the inner impulses of
our nature, through what our present Teacher Katherine Tingley
calls “ self-directed evolution ”— which is the very heart of this
doctrine of Swabháva, one of the most fundamental doctrines in
the esoteric philosophy— when we have reached the bottom, I
repeat, then the same inner impulse carries us (provided that we
have passed the danger-point of being attracted into the lower
sphere of matter) up the luminous arc, up and back into the
higher spiritual spheres, but beyond the point of departure
whence we first started downward on our cyclical journey into
material experience for that Manvantara.
We make our own bodies, we make our own lives, we make
our own destinies, and we are responsible for it all, spiritually,
morally, intellectually, psychically, and even physically. It is a
manly doctrine; there is no room in it for moral cowardice;
no room in it for casting our responsibility upon the shoulders of
another— God, angel, man, or demon. We can become Gods,
because we are gods in the germ even now, inwardly. We start
upon our evolutionary journey as an unselfconscious God-spark,
and we return to our primal source of being, following the great
cycle of the Mahá-Manvantara, a self-conscious God.
Let us say here that we have come at this point to what is
a great puzzle for most of our Occidental Orientalists. They
cannot understand the distinctions that the wonderful old
philosophers of the Orient make as regards the various classes
of the Devas. They say, in substance : " What funny contra­
dictions there are in these teachings, which in many respects are
profound and seem so wonderful. Some of these Devas (or divine
beings) are said to be less than man ; some of these writings even
say that a good man is nobler than any god. And yet other parts
of these teachings declare that there are gods higher even than
the Devas, and yet are called Devas. What does this mean ? ”
The Devas or divine beings, one class of them, are the unself­
conscious sparks of Divinity, cycling down into matter in order
io6 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
to bring out from within themselves and to unfold or evolve self-
consciousness, the Swabhava of Divinity within. They begin
their reascent always on the luminous arc, which never ends, in a
sense ; and they are Gods, self-conscious Gods, henceforth, taking
a definite and divine part in the “ great work ” , as the Mystics
have said, of being builders, evolvers, leaders, of Hierarchies;
in other words, they are monads which have become their own inner­
most selves; which have passed the “ Ring Pass-Not ” , separating
the spiritual from the divine. Remember and reflect upon these
old sayings in our books; every one of them is pregnant with
meaning, full of thought.
Now this, therefore, is the doctrine of Swabhava : the doctrine
of inner development, of bringing out that particular essential
characteristic, or Individuality, which is within, of self-directed
evolution; and you must perforce see the immense reach that
it has in the moral world, in the theological world, in the philo­
sophical world, yea, even in the scientific world as regards the
knotty problems of evolution, such as the “ evolution of species ” ,
inheritance, development of root-types, and many more.
We shall one day have to study more carefully, than the mere
sketch we have given here, these divine, very divine, doctrines,
especially in their bearing on questions of human psychology;
for upon these doctrines depends the further (and a better) com­
prehension of the very tenets which we have outlined this evening
and at former meetings. We cannot understand the universe
nor the working and interplay of the forces therein until we have
mastered at least to some degree, and followed out, the injunction
of the Delphic Oracle, “ Man, Know Thyself! ” A man who
knows himself truly, knows all, because he is, fundamentally, all.
He is every Hierarchy ; he is gods and demons and worlds and
spheres and forces, and matter and consciousness and spirit—
everything is in him. He is in one sense built of the roots of
everything, and he is the fruit of everything; he has endless
time behind him and endless time before him. What a gospel of
hope, what a gospel of wonder, is this ; how it raises the human
soul; how the inmost part of us aspires when we reflect upon this
teaching ! No wonder that it is called the “ teaching (or Wisdom)
of the Gods ” , Theosophia— that is to say, the teaching which
the Gods themselves study. How does a man become a Mahat-
man or Great Self ? Through self-directed evolution, through
becoming that which he is in himself, in his innermost. This is the
doctrine of SwabMva.
And here we should at least allude to the mystery of individu­
ality. Remember that personality is the mask (persona, as the
Latins said) or reflexion in matter of the individuality; but being
a material thing it can lead us downward, although it is in essence
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 107
a reflexion of the highest. It is an old saying that those things
are most dangerous which have reality or truth in them; not
those things which are truly unreal or false, because they of them­
selves fall to pieces and evanish away in time.
Monads, psychologically (we have the four monads, the divine,
intellectual, psychical, and astral, corresponding to the four
basic planes of matter, but all four Monads deriving from the
highest) from the standpoint of generalization, are spiritual atoms,
Buddhic atoms, being universal principles so far as are concerned
the planes below, the Buddhi being perhaps the most mysterious
of the seven principles of man, and, from our present viewpoint,
the most important. But the human monad (as contrasted with
the divine monad above it), the potentially immortal man, com­
prises the three principles, Atman, Buddhi, and the higher Manas.
These three principles are required in order to make a self-
conscious God. Atman and Buddhi alone cannot make a self-
conscious God ; they are a god-spark, an undeveloped or un­
evolved God-spark. We have to use in this connexion human
terms ; we have not the proper terms in English nor in any other
European language properly to express these subtil thoughts.
In conclusion, let us remember that while each man has the
“ Christ " within himself, and can be “ saved ” only by that
“ Christ ” , he can be saved by that inner “ Christ ” only when
he chooses to save himself; the initiative must come from below,
from himself. And while some people, through misunderstanding
of this wonderful doctrine of Swabhava, may speak of “ fatalism ” ,
we can do no more this evening than to say emphatically that this
doctrine is not fatalism; it is absolutely the contrary of the
fatalistic hypothesis, which asserts that there is a blind or un­
known or conscious or unconscious force outside of man, directing
him, driving him, in his choice, acts, and evolution, to annihilation
or heaven or hell. That is not the doctrine of Swabhava and it
is not taught in the Esoteric Philosophy.
CHAPTER XI
THE COSMIC PILGRIMAGE. FROM UN-SELF-CONSCIOUS GODSPARK
TO FULLY SELF-CONSCIOUS GOD.
Unveil, O Thou that givest sustenance to the Universe, from whom all
proceeds, to whom all must return, the face of the True Sun, now hidden by a
vase of Golden Light, that we may see the Truth and do our whole duty on our
journey towards thy Sacred Seat.
Paraphrase of The Gdyatri, one of the most
sacred verses of the Hindi! Scriptures.
N page 605 of the first volume of The Secret Doctrine
|we find the following :
o!
before criticising what it asserts. For example, the Doctrine
refuses (as Science does, in one sense) to use the words “ above ” and
“ below,” “ higher” and “ lower,” in reference to in v isib le spheres, as
being without meaning. Even the terms “ East ' ’ and ‘'West'' are merely
conventional, necessary only to aid our human perceptions. For, though
the Earth has its two fixed points in the poles, North and South, yet
both East and West are variable relatively to our own position on the
Earth's surface, and in consequence of its rotation from West to East.
Hence, when “ other worlds ” are mentioned—whether better or worse,
more spiritual or still more material, though both invisible—the
Occultist does not locate these spheres either outside or in sid e our
Earth, as the theologians and the poets do ; for their location is no­
where in the space know n to, and conceived by, the profane. They are,
as it were, blended with our world— interpenetrating it and inter­
penetrated by it. There are millions and millions of worlds and
firmaments visible to us ; there are still greater numbers beyond
those visible to the telescopes, and many of the latter kind do not
belong to our objective sphere of existence. Although as invisible
as if they were millions of miles beyond our solar system, they are yet
with us, near us, w ith in our own world, as objective and material to
their respective inhabitants as ours is to us. But, again, the relation
of these worlds to ours is not that of a series of egg-shaped boxes
enclosed one within the other, like the toys called Chinese nests;
each is entirely under its own special laws and conditions, having no
direct relation to our sphere. The inhabitants of these, as already
said, may be, for all we know, or feel, passing through and around us
as if through empty space, their very habitations and countries being
inter-blended with ours, though not disturbing our vision, because
we have not yet the faculties necessary for discerning them.
This seems to be a very appropriate general text for us to
choose in closing our sketch of the Hierarchies; and more
108
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 109
particularly this evening our development of the doctrine of
Swabhava, upon which we touched in our last meeting— the
doctrine of the characteristic nature, of the individuality, or type-
essentiality, of each individual monad, growing and manifesting
and becoming itself in the manifested world in which it is itself
the seed of its own individuality. The bearing of this concept on
the doctrine of evolution— “ rolling out or unfolding of what is
within ”— and especially on the mooted and knotty problem of
the so-called " origin of species ”, is simply immense, for it is
the key thereof.
We can use the word individuality for the meaning of Swabhava,
provided we do not use it in contradistinction with personality.
It is individuality in the sense of signifying the being and the
unfolding of that particular quality or essential characteristic
which distinguishes one monad, one human entity, one cosmos,
one atom, from another of the same kind. Fundamental as
is the doctrine of Hierarchies, and illuminating as is the
light that it throws upon other problems, it itself cannot be
properly understood without its complementary doctrine of
Swabhava; and, vice versa, we cannot properly understand the
doctrine of Swabhava without understanding the doctrine of
Hierarchies.
We hope this evening to develop the true meaning of Swabh&va,
and thus to finish this part of our study, having now reached the
frontiers, as it were, of cosmical manifestation ; and in beginning
our study of it in detail, we are obliged to touch upon a very
essential aspect of the Doctrine, another aspect of it which is
fundamental for the proper understanding of this portion of the
teaching of the Ancient Wisdom ; it is a portion which pertains
to psychology. Indeed, this doctrine of Hierarchies and this its
complementary doctrine of Swabhava, are both in a very large
measure fundamentally psychological.
Swabhava is a Sanskrit term, a noun derived from the root
BhU, meaning “ to become ” , and hence “ to be ” , a psychological
concord which is found also in several other languages, as in both
Greek and English for instance. In Greek the word is gignomai;
and in English it is be. In old Anglo-Saxon we have this word
with the essential future sense completely retained and psycho­
logically distinctly felt; to w it: ic beo, thu bist or byst, he bith or
biath, etc., meaning " I, thou, he will be ” , in the future sense of
become. It is obvious that the psychological force of this means
that being is essentially a becoming— a growth or evolution or
unfolding of inner faculty.
English, as a matter of fact, had originally and still has only
the two natural grammatical tenses— the imperfect tense, or the
tense of imperfect or incomplete action, commonly called the
IIO FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
" present ” ; and the perfect tense of perfected or completed
action, or the past.
Now what constitutes one Hierarchy, as different in essence—
or Swabháva— from another Hierarchy ? It is its Swabháva, or
the seed of individuality which is it and is in it. It is that seed,
which developing, makes a Hierarchy, and that seed in developing,
follows the laws (or rather nature) of its own essential being, and
this is its Swabháva. In The Secret Doctrine, H. P. Blavatsky
often speaks of one particular quality or plane of Universal Being,
which she calls Swabhavat, the neuter present participle of the
same root Bhü (spoken of a moment agone) and used as a noun.
Like Swabháva, it is derived from the same root, with the same
prefix, and means that particular thing which exists and becomes
of and in its own essential essence ; call it the “ Self-Existent ” ,
if you like; it is, though a Sanskrit word, a Buddhistic term,
and its Bráhmanical equivalent in the Vedánta would probably
be the cosmical side of Paramátman— " Supreme Self ” , the
individualized aspect of Parabrahman-Mulaprakriti— Superspirit-
Rootmatter.
Swabhavat is the spiritual essence, the fundamental root or
Spirit-Substance, the Father-Mother of the beginning of mani­
festation, and from it grow or become all things. It can be
conceived of as Spinoza did— the Netherlandish Jewish phil­
osopher, the absolute idealist— as God, as the one Underlying
Being or Substance; though in our studies we have eschewed
most sedulously the use of the term “ God ” , for a reason herein­
after to be set forth. Or it can be conceived of as Leibnitz did,
as a collective Unity of an infinitude of emanated monads or
" entelechies ” , to use Aristotle’s term. Spinoza was an absolute
idealist, while Leibnitz was an " objective idealist ” , which we
also are, by the way. Swabháva is the characteristic nature, the
type-essence, the individuality, of Swabhavat— of any Swab­
havat, each such Swabhavat having its own Swabháva.
Now the main and essential meaning of the doctrine of Swab­
háva is the following— and it is so fundamental, so important in
order properly to understand what follows, that we are going
emphatically to urge it upon the attention of everyone. When
cosmical manifestation begins or opens, it does not open helter-
skelter, in disordered confusion, or by chance ; it begins in con­
formity with the characteristic seeds of life, called, commonly,
“ laws ” , which have been in latent existence through the period
of the mahá-pralaya preceding the beginning of the new man-
vantara, and these “ laws ”— we use the term under strong
protest— are really the intrinsic and ineluctable karmic habits of
nature to be this or that, its Swabhávas, in short its hosts of
innumerable entities or essential natures; and these " laws ”
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY i n
are actually impressed, stamped, upon ethereal and physical
matter by the monadic essences or the monads. The Swabhavas
of the monads give their Swabhavic natures to Nature! The
monads are individuals, and conceiving them as collected together
in a unity and forming a body of a still greater Monad, Leibnitz
gave to this greatest Monad the Latin term Monas Monadum—
the " Monad of monads This Monad is, in short, our Hier­
archical summit, of which we have several times spoken before.
But where is there any need to call this “ Monad of monads ” , this
Hierarchical apex or summit, " God ” ? We can conceive of
something still higher, and so forth almost at will. To stop at
any point and call it " God ” would simply be creating a deity—
a “ God ” man-made, truly !
However, a man must pause somewhere in thought. So we
begin with Swabhava, which, being an abstract term, is not a
limit or boundary in itself. It is pure Individuality working in
spirit-matter of which it is the highest part, or summit. Now
this essential nature (or Swabhava) of a monad develops and
becomes in matter a Hierarchy, whether that Hierarchy be an
atom, a man, a planet, a sun, a solar system, or a cosmical
universe (or a universal cosmos) such as we find within the
encircling zone of the Milky Way. The monad does so following
the driving essential urge of its own inner essence, its individu­
ality, its Swabhava. Hence it is that as the monads are
individuals, so are the resultant Hierarchies individualized. And
generalizing, as the monad grows into or becomes the Hierarchy,
descending the “ shadowy arc ”— that is, descending into matter
— as it becomes matter in its lower parts— the upper portion of the
monad remaining always in its own pure unadulterated state— it
reaches a certain point which is the end of its cyclical develop­
ment for that period of evolution (or manvantara), and then it
begins cycling upward and back again, and this part of its journey
is called the " luminous arc ” , because its tendency is towards
“ light ” , or spirit, following the phraseology of the ancient
sages.
We studied some time ago in the Hebrew Bible, Chapter I,
verses 25 and 26, how the Elohim (in the translation that we
made) said : " Let us make ‘ man ’ in our own shadowy image
(in our own shadow), and in our archetypal pattern ” . These
E16him who so “ spoke ” were monads, together forming a
Hierarchy, each one of them, again, a Hierarchy by itself. As
each individual man is a subordinate Hierarchy of the greater
Hierarchy of Humanity, so Humanity is a subordinate Hierarchy
of the still greater Hierarchy of the planet, and the planet Terra
a subordinate Hierarchy of the still greater Hierarchy of the
solar system; and so forth, as long as you care to follow the
H2 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
thought. Man is himself composed of less beings; he himself
is a microcosm, or little universe ; he to these less beings is as a
God— he to them is the Monas monadum, the Monad of monads.
We shall later see reasons of great force why we have sedulously
eschewed using this word “ God ” . It is a colored word, spoiled
with the thoughts which have been tacked on to it, attached to
i t ; colored by them all, and it is for these reasons a dangerous
word to use, because both misleading and inadequate.
As this monad in the beginning of manifestation in cosmos
breaks through the laya-center, which you will remember we
have studied before— that is to say through the neutral point,
the vanishing-point where spirit becomes matter, or vice versa
(you can call it the Atman of the six lower degrees or principles
which are to follow in sequential evolution)— as the descending
monad breaks through the encircling matter of the cosmos around
it, it follows in its course its own inner urge, or, rather, is driven
thereby; it is self-expressive, but still self-unconscious; but when
any particular “ atomic ” part of this cosmic monad reaches
self-consciousness, and becomes a man, the path that its evolution
follows thenceforward is consciously self-directed, as our present
Teacher has so constantly taught us. Up to the time of the
entrance of the s¿
’//-conscious mind into man (a matter which we
will explain in a few moments), the evolving entity is under the
impulse, the propulsion, of dire and implacable necessity, which,
however, is most emphatically not fate ; and this is because, up
to this critical point in evolution, the evolving entity is an
imperfect being still: it is not a se//-conscious thing, but an
unselfconscious godspark. It cannot as yet direct its own
destiny on the planes of manifestation, but automatically follows
the course of the Hierarchy to which it belongs. This spiritual-
mental impotency ceases when the self-conscious state has been
reached, which is in man ; from this moment, in growing degree,
man becomes himself a creator— a creator, self-consciously, of
himself; he reaches upward or inward or outward— the adverb
matters not— and becomes that which he essentially is within,
continually aspiring toward the Inmost of the Inmost; and he
finally reaches the point, at the end of this Day of Brahma—
after seven planetary Rounds— where he blossoms forth into a
self-conscious god, not yet “ God ” , or the summit of the Hier­
archy to which he belongs by karmic descent, but a god. No
longer is he a non-self-conscious monad, but a self-conscious
monad, a planetary spirit, a Dhyan-Chohan, to use a beautiful
Buddhistic term, a " Lord of Meditation ” , one of that Wondrous
Host of spiritual beings who are the full-blown Flowers of former
World-Periods or Manvantaras. This Wondrous Host are the
Perfect Men of those former World-Periods; and they guide the
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 113
evolution of this planet in its present Manvantara. They are our
own spiritual Lords, Leaders, and Saviors. They supervise us
now in our evolution here, and we follow the path of the general
evolution outlined by them in our own present cyclic pilgrimage.
When we first started on this pilgrimage as un-self-conscious god-
sparks, destined to become self-conscious men in this our Man­
vantara, it was these Dhyan-Chohans— Flowers of the former
Manvantara— who opened the path for us, who guided our
uncertain steps as we became Men, incarnations of our higher
selves. But when we became self-conscious entities or Men, we
began to guide ourselves; and to work consciously with them
according to our evolution, to “ work with nature ” , as H. P.
Blavatsky nobly expressed it, is our highest duty and our brightest
hope. It is our future destiny to become such godlike beings our­
selves, thereafter, in our turn, to inform, inspire, and guide less
evolved entities in future Manvantaras, as we have been informed,
inspired, and guided by them ; and finally, after many kalpas,
after many Days of Brahma— each one of such " Days ” a period
of seven planetary Rounds— we shall become a conscious part
of the Cosmical Logos, the Brahmic Logos, using the phrase
Brahmic Logos as meaning the highest conscious entitative
intelligence of the solar system; thence upward and upward
for ever.
We return to our main theme. Now when the monad has
reached the first point of cosmic manifestation, it has already
descended through the first three of the ten planes or degrees or
steps, i.e., through the three planes or degrees or steps forming
the upper triangle or triad of the ten planes, in and on which
the universe is built. It now begins definitely to cycle downward,
and its entrance into cosmic manifestation, as already said, is
the laya-center which is the Atman or universal spirit, no more
belonging to any particular entity or man than does the Atman
of any entity or man in any other planet of any other solar
system. Atman is ourselves merely because it is the link which
connects us with the Higher. As a matter of fact, the human
being or man consists of five principles, because the Atman is
not his except as a “ plank of salvation ” ; and his gross physical
body is not really a principle at all. This matter of component
principles in man we shall have to go into more fully when we
take up our study of human psychological composition.
Now the upper triangle of the ten above alluded to, actually is
extended or developed out from the monad itself, as the petals and
leaves of a flower are extended or evolved out of its seed: it
draws its life and being from within itself. It is the elemental
world, spiritually speaking; as the three worlds below our
mineral kingdom are the elemental worlds of ourselves, materially
114 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
speaking, forming an elemental world, " spiritually ” speaking, of
the Hierarchy below our own.
This inner urge driving the monad to express itself in manifesta­
tion and form, is the will of higher beings, working through itself,
of which higher beings it forms an integral p art: just as our
brain, or our body, follows the implacable, dire law of necessity,
which we impose upon brain or body by our thoughts and our
will, yét both brain and body are parts of ourself in matter. The
monad must reach self-consciousness in order to “ free ” itself
and thus become a self-conscious, self-directed god.
These things are so important for properly understanding our
future study that we feel necessitated again and again to return
to them. They are basically fundamental, lying at the very root
of all our teaching. Understand clearly and well that this is
notfatalism. That doctrine runs directly contrary to the doctrine
of Swabháva, the doctrine of «¿//-expression.
As an egg unfolds within itself the germ which is to become the
future chick ; or the human egg, the ovum, unfolds the germ
within it which is to become the future child of man, similarly
does the universe develop, similarly does an atom develop, thus
also does a monad develop. It is unfolded within the auric egg.
The human ovum, the seed of the plant, each is nothing but an
egg. The shape may differ, the life-form may differ, but this
has nothing to do with the principle of unfoldment of which we
are speaking. The encasement within the auric egg envelops the
germ of individuality— or Swabháva— which is destined to follow
its course along its own characteristic line of unfoldment: what
is in the egg or seed comes out, each species according to its own
kind, and this is its Swabháva. The Greek Stoic School taught the
existence— both cosmically and infinitesimally— of spermatic
logoi, " seed-logoi ” , each such spermatic logos producing
creatures after its kind and according to its own essence— like the
Hebrew Biblical Elóhim— and this is again Swabháva.
We saw in our study of the Qabbáláh— I think it was last
week, or the week before— how the highest world unfolded itself
and from itself emanated or evolved the second world, thus
actually becoming the second world : being thus both parent and
child. The second world was thus the child of the first; the
third was the child of the first and the second ; and the fourth,
the “ world of shells ”— or of beings living in gross bodies, or
“ shells ”— was the child of the first, the second, and the third,
all working together in order to produce this fourth. Note well,
however, that each superior sphere or world remains intact on
its own plane, though evolving from itself the next succeeding
inferior world.
The Stoics had a doctrine of development which in its essence
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 115
is the pure teaching of our own philosophy, though expressed in
different form and under different names. They expressed it
in this wise, following the mechanical mode so agreeable and dear
to the Greek mind. It is curious, by the way, that the Oriental
mind has always preferred to follow the psychological and spiritual
lines of thought, rather than the mechanical, or, as we would
now say, the “ scientific ” . But the Stoics taught in Greece, and
later in Rome, that the mechanism of the Essential Nature of the
Deity— and this essential nature is our Swabhava, what we would
call “ Father-Mother ”— was tension, and slackening of this
tension, this slackening of tension being the first act of World-
Building. They took as an analogy in illustration of the idea the
well known fact that when a metal grows hot it then expands,
and finally is vaporized ; and using this simple matter-of-fact
analogy they said that the “ natural ” state of Pneuma (“ Spirit ”
=the Deity) is fire— not physical fire, but the seed of that cosmic
element from which physical fire springs. The slackening of this
tension produced the first differentiation of the Primal Substance
— or Pneuma= " God ”— and this differentiation then awoke to
active life the life-seeds, slumbering or latent, which came over
from the previous period of manifested life; the life-seeds, or
seed-lives— their spermatic logoi, alluded to before by us— thus
awaking, proceeded to build and guide the forthcoming World
Period and all the entities in it, each such seed-life bringing forth
from itself its essential species, or characteristic essence— our
Swabhava. This is the teaching, in miniature, but as the Stoics
gave it, of the Esoteric Philosophy.
Now when the universe was to come forth from its own being,
taught the Stoics, the " tension ” of the Primal Substance or
Divine Fire slackened, or contracted as it were, and this con­
traction, by condensation, gave birth to the aether ; next, as the
tension slackened in the aether, this gave birth to “ air ” ; and
it, next, to “ water ” ; and it, finally, to “ earth ” . We are not
speaking of the material fire, air, water, earth, that we see around
us, but we refer to the elements or “ seeds ” of these, the earth and
the water and the air and the fire that we see around us being
merely material samples or the last progeny, as it were, of the
elemental seeds from which these respectively sprang. " Fire ”
gave birth to the " aether ” , the latter being its shadow, the
shadow of itself. The " aether ” gave birth to its shadow, or
" air ” , its encasement or body ; and the “ air ” to “ water ” ;
and the “ water ” to " earth ” . The Stoics taught further that
all these things can be respectively transformed one into the
other— the dream of the alchemist, and also the dream, psycho­
logically, of initiates in our own School, who aim and strive to
transform the base into the pure, the material into the spiritual.
Ii6 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Returning once more to our main theme, it is to be noted that
naturally, as the Monad— the root or the individuality of a
Hierarchy of any kind— cycles down into matter, it produces
from itself, it expands outwardly from itself its own shadows (or
lower vehicles) which grow constantly more dense in direct pro­
portion to the greater descent of the Monad. In this connexion
the question arises, that as there are certainly worlds of happiness,
worlds of peace, in the higher spheres, how about those nether
worlds : how about those lowest states of being of which H. P.
Blavatsky speaks as the avichi ? All our Teachers have told us,
and our present Teacher emphasises it constantly, that there is
no hell in the Christian sense. Such a " hell ” is a vague bogey
of the imagination ; but there are, in very truth, lower spheres ;
just as there are higher, so there must be lower. There cannot
be good without evil, for the one is the shadow of the other and
balances it in nature. These lowest spheres have a well defined
part to play in the great Cosmic Drama. They are the Cleansing
Houses, so to say, of the souls of those who persist in evil-doing.
Like attracts like. These lower spheres are necessarily entered
into by those who wilfully, through a prolonged series of incarna­
tions, refuse to follow the spiritual light within themselves.
Like attracts like, we repeat it. As a matter of fact, such souls,
so stained and weighted with evil, are actually pursuing their
own cyclical pilgrimage, drawn by attraction to like spheres and
dwellings. As our Teachers have said, during the cyclic pilgrimage
of the atom-souls down into matter many millions and millions
have failed to pass the danger-point and, instead of thereupon
beginning their journey “ homeward ” up the “ luminous arc ” ,
are swept into the terrible maelstrom of the current that goes
downward farther into matter! Therefore, into relatively
greater suffering. These must wait until their time comes again
in the next Manvantara, and another chance in the future kalpa
of the earth. For this Day of Brahma, for this manvantara of
seven Rounds, all is ended for them as regards their conscious
journey back to their divine source.
These are doctrines (such as that of the avichi-nirvana, just
hinted at and alluded to in the preceding few sentences) which
were taught in the ancient esoteric schools. From them, by
misunderstanding and corruption of them, have been derived
the bogey-doctrines of a fiery, material Hell in which are, for
eternity, to burn the ethereal souls of wilful sinners ! These souls
are said to be of an asbestos-like nature, forever burning fiercely
yet never consumed, like pitch burning for utter eternity in
utterly endless fire ! What frightful nightmares of a gross and
materialistic “ religious ” teaching 1 It is amazing how the
mind of man will invent things to torture itself with. But it
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 117
also shows that back of all these fearful, nightmare-doctrines
and dogmas there is some fundamental fact which the untaught
mind sees through thick clouds darkly and falsely, and distorts ;
some element of truth which needs only proper explanation for
understanding.
And how the human heart must melt in pity ! Do we realize
how real these doctrines were to our ancestors of only a few score
years ago ? And that in some backward-looking churches today
these same horrible doctrines are still taught as actualities, though
more or less secretly as if in utter shame, and that there are
misguided and unhappy men who believe them, and on their
death-beds suffer in anticipation the tortures of the damned,
tortures worse, certainly, than any which nature has prepared
for them as guerdon for their mistakes and sins ? Think of the
horror of i t ! Think of the duty that we owe to our fellow-men
to teach them the proper explanation and meaning of these
distorted and tortured doctrines in all their sanity, in all their
beautiful hope ! There is a moral element involved in it for us.
People sometimes ask what is the use of studying The Secret
Doctrine ? What is the use of spending so much time in studying
the Rounds and Races ? Here is one of the uses. Essentially
you cannot change men until you have changed their minds.
Teach men properly and nobly to think, andyou teach them properly
and nobly to live, and properly and nobly to die. There is nothing
like a noble thought to lift a man. It is sheer folly and egoism
that says, “ What is the use of these so-called noble thoughts ?
My thoughts are good enough for me
After all that has previously been said, nevertheless, we have
just begun our exposition of Swabhava. We shall not have this
evening the time and opportunity to touch upon the very
important psychological aspects of it which we had hoped to do.
We have still a few moments of time, however. Let us then try to
illustrate more clearly this doctrine of Swabhava on the line of
it chosen before. Imagine, then, an individual monad sending
its ray, or descending, through that sphere which becomes the
spiritual-atomic plane of the six planes below it. It (this ray) forms
it itself into respective principles and planes as time passes, and
it gathers and gleans the experiences of each separate plane.
Leaving that spiritual-atomic or Atmanic plane, it evolves out
of itself its shadow, which is like an encasement, an aura, thus
forming its auric egg there, and this second plane or principle we
call our Buddhi, and as the monadic life or ray passes still farther
down into that shadowy life, this buddhic plane and principle
become to it the Real and the True. As cycles of time pass on,
the descending monadic ray (or seed) evolves another shadow,
another encasement, another subtil body, another aura, another
n8 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
auric egg, out of itself, and this is our Manas. Each of these three
principles— as indeed have all the seven— has seven degrees,
seven stages, from the “ atomic ” of any one of the three down
to its lowest, which is its “ corpus ” or “ body And so on with
the remaining four lower planes and principles of man. Each one
of these principles is “ fully ” developed on our globe in the
respective and similar one of the Rounds of the seven of the Day
of Brahma. Further, on each one of the seven globes of the
Planetary Chain, one of the seven principles especially is
developed. Again, as just shown, at the end of each Round, one
plane and one principle of the seven is developed, preparatory to
evolving the succeeding one in another Round. It takes fully
two Rounds, for instance, to bring out two planes and two
principles in fu ll: but during the first and the second Rounds,
for example, the other planes and principles have been coming
up by degrees, evolving little by little, developing step by step.
The chick does not grow in a day : the child does not become a
man in a week ; his soul does not develop within him in a fort­
night. If a man lived the life he should, he would be at his best
and noblest at the time when he thinks it is time for him to draw
up his legs in bed and die. The physical body may be then ready
to die, but the man within, that which is the real being, should be
growing greater and nobler and grander. It is for this that we
really live.
And so runs the course of evolution to the end of the seven
Rounds, each Round bringing out one principle and one plane,
as said ; in each Round, each one of the remaining principles is
brought out or evolved in less degree, there being thus— to use
Ezekiel’s figure— " wheels within wheels ” . At the mid-point of
the fourth Round, which is the middle Round, there comes a
time when the monadic ray reaches the very acme of materiality
— when the life-wave reaches a point where it branches both
downward and upward, and then, in the words of Ezekiel,
chapter 18, “ the soul that sinneth, it shall surely die ” , meaning
that the monadic ray courses downward, and loses all chance for
ascent back homeward along the " luminous arc ” , for that
manvantara. It follows the downward path. But those others
that can and do follow on, they indeed pass the danger-point.
I have spoken of this twice already this evening, because it will
probably be the matter of our next study.
A Day of Brahma is composed of seven Rounds, a period of
4320 million solar or rather terrestrial years. Seven of these
Days, again, are required to make a Solar Manvantara, which is a
term used in the Esoteric Philosophy in a peculiar sense, because
seven times seven Rounds are needed in order to bring out to
their fullest, each of the seven principles and seven planes of
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 119
which the manifesting Hierarchy is composed. Of the life of
Brahma, we are told one-half is already passed, one-half of
311,040,000,000,000, plus some few more billions of our years !
I refer to the Surya-Siddhanta, an ancient Sanskrit cosmogonical
and astronomical work, which, from the statements and facts
given within it, claims an age of somewhat more than two million
years, according to popular interpretation. I think our modern
Orientalists in their great wisdom give its origin as occurring
more or less around the beginning of the Christian era, or later,
simply on the one ground that the Greeks brought to north­
western India certain forms of computation, which are found in
the Surya-Siddhanta, a theory which is purely arbitrary, and
based upon no certainly ascertained fact except the self-evolved
or " Swabhavic ” theories of the Orientalists themselves !
CHAPTER XII
PSYCHOLOGY : ACCORDING TO THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY. IMMOR­
TALITY IS CONDITIONAL : THE LOSS OF THE SOUL.
Stoop not down, for a precipice lies below the earth,
Drawing under a descent of seven steps, beneath which
Is the throne of dire necessity.
Psellus, 6, Piet. 2 ; (Cory, Chaldean Oracles).
Devilish (asurya) are those worlds called,
With blind darkness (tamas) covered o'er !
Unto them, on deceasing, go
Whatever folk are slayers of the Self.
t$d-Upanishad, 3. (R. E. Hume’s translation, p. 362.)
I
N opening our study of the Holy Science which we are
privileged here again tonight to investigate, let us begin
by reading from H. P. Blavatsky’s Secret Doctrine,
Volume I, the last paragraph on page 272 :
(1) The Secret Doctrine is the accumulated Wisdom of the Ages . . .
Next page, second paragraph :
(2) The fundamental Law in that^system, the central point from
which all emerged, around and toward which all gravitates, and upon
which is hung the philosophy of the rest, is the One homogeneous
divine Substance-principle, the one radical cause.
Last paragraph :
(3) The Universe is the periodical manifestation of this unknown
Absolute Essence.
Next page, second paragraph :
(4) The Universe is called, with everything in it, Maya, because
all is temporary therein, from the ephemeral life of a fire-fly to that
of the Sun.
Last paragraph :
(6) The Universe is worked and guided from within outwards. As
above so it is below, as in heaven so on earth ; and man—the micro­
cosm and miniature copy of the macrocosm— is the living witness to
this Universal Law and to the mode of its action. We see that every
external motion, act, gesture, whether voluntary or mechanical,
organic or mental, is produced and preceded by internal feeling or
emotion, will or volition, and thought or mind. As no outward motion
or change, when normal, in man's external body can take place unless
provoked by an inward impulse, given through one of the three func-
120
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 121
tions named, so with external or manifested Universe. The whole
Kosmos is guided, controlled, and animated by almost endless series
of Hierarchies of sentient Beings, each having a missioiji to perform,
and who— whether we give to them one name or another, and call them
Dhy&n-Chohans or Angels—are " Messengers ” in the sense only that
they are the agents of Karmic and Cosmic Laws. They vary infinitely
in their respective degrees of consciousness and intelligence ; and to
call them all pure Spirits without any of the earthly alloy “ which time
is wont to prey upon ” is only to indulge in poetical fancy. For each of
these Beings either was, or prepares to become, a man, if not in the
present, then in a past or a coming cycle (Manvantara). They are
perfected, when not incipient, men ; and differ morally from the
terrestrial human beings on their higher (less material) spheres, only
in that they are devoid of the feeling of personality and of the human
emotional nature—two purely earthly characteristics.
And on pages 21 and 22, beginning in the middle of the
sentence :
. . . the differentiation of the "germ” of the Universe into the
septenary hierarchy of conscious Divine Powers, who are the active
manifestations of the One Supreme Energy. They are the framers,
shapers, and ultimately the creators of all the manifested Universe,
in the only sense in which the name “ Creator ” is intelligible; they
inform and guide i t ; they are the intelligent Beings who adjust and
control evolution, embodying in themselves those manifestations of
the One Law, which we know as “ The Laws of Nature
Resuming our thought from our last study of two weeks ago,
we shall take up this evening an outline of the psychological
nature of man, because, as mentioned before, if man understands
himself, he understands that from which he came, and which he is
— he understands the universe proportionately with his own
development of spirit and of mind and of the percipient faculties
that go with the development of spirit and of mind in man. In
order to enable us more easily to understand, and more clearly
to set forth, the essential characteristics of man’s psychological
economy, we shall endeavor to show how closely these are
related to two fundamental theorems, or principles, or doctrines,
of the Wisdom-Religion ; and these two are (1) the Law, or
rather the fact of Hierarchies ; and (2) the Law (we use the term
again under strong protest) of the Essential Nature of things,
called Swabhava ; as said before, the latter is a Sanskrit term
meaning self-evolution, ¿¿//-formation, ¿¿//-development, self­
becoming. In it inheres the foundation of the law of morals. As
is obvious, Man is responsible to himself, and because man is a
part of other things, he is therefore responsible to other things
also. Likewise, as a corollary of the foregoing, after death man
does not “ meet his Creator ” , but verily he has to meet and to
122 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
reckon with his creature, that which he has built up in himself
during his life,— his astral self.
What makes a rose bring forth a rose always ? Why does the
seed of an apple invariably bring forth apples ? Why does it not
bring forth thistles, or daisies, or pansies ? The answer is very
simple ; very profound, however. It is because of the Swabhava,
the essential nature in and of the seed. Its Swabhava can bring
forth only that which itself is, its essential characteristic, its own
inner nature. The Stoics of Greece and Rome expressed this fact
of evolution by saying that in the opening of a period of Manifesta­
tion, it is the Pneuma— “ Spirit ”— which relaxes its tension,
condensation or concretion thereupon ensuing of the said Pneuma
or Spirit, and evolution begins, emanation and evolution both
begin, following the causes set up and active in the preceding
period of Manifestation. There spring into life co-ordinately
with the opening of the new period the " spermatic logoi ” , the
“ seed-logoi ” , an expression translated from the Greek sper-
matikoi logoi, spermatic reasons, seed-reasons, “ Logos ” meaning
“ reason ” , hence ” cause ” , among other things. It was these
seed-logoi, or spermatic logoi, which were the fruits or results, the
karmans, as we would say, of former periods of activity. Having
attained a certain stage of evolution or development, or quality,
or characteristic, or individuality in the preceding Manvantara;
when the next period of evolution came, they could produce
nothing else but that which they were themselves, their own inner
natures, as seeds do. The seed can produce nothing but what it
itself is, what is in i t ; and this is the heart and essence of the
doctrine of Swabhava. The philosophical, scientific, and religious
reach of this Doctrine is simply immense; it is of the first
importance.
The habit, or, if you like the word, the “ law ” (we use this
word again under protest), of Swabhava can work only in that
which is itself, because only its own vehicle, its own self, is
appropriate for the manifestation of itself— obviously! Hence,
the manner of evolution and emanation, and the progress of
the Hierarchies, are as set forth before; that is, that from
the highest, evolution and emanation proceed downward into
the more material; and so on down the line of the “ shadowy
arc ” into matter, until the turning-point of the descent is
attained; whereupon begins the ascent along the " luminous arc ” .
We must note well, however, that the higher does not leave
its own sphere in this process ; the higher does not wholly become
the lower, and the lower wholly become the still lower, leaving
a vacuum or an emptiness above. The higher spheres remain
always. It is like the flame of a candle laid at the wick of another
candle ; and from that one candle, as our first great Teacher has
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 123
said, you can light all the candles of the universe, without
diminution of its energy or of its force or of its characteristic
essence. The highest remains always the highest; it is that
part of itself, as it were, that is the developing energy acting from
within ; its Skandhas it is— which you will remember we have
studied before— which produce, as the Stoics would have said,
this “ relaxation of tension ” , this condensation or concretion of
parts of itself. A perfect analogy is found in the intro-uterine
development of man, and his descent into incarnation. His
spiritual nature does not come down and become his actual body ;
it remains always his spiritual nature ; but from it it throws out
parts of itself, its lower aspects or principles, if we may so put the
idea; and these, as the manvantaric cycle proceeds, in their
turn, each one in its turn, secretes, protrudes, and excretes
something lower. So that the physical man, the body, is in very
truth the “ Temple of the living God ” , which is itself the Glory
thereof, hence a part of the Temple ; the Temple, verily, is the
lowest manifestation of the living God within.
Now Swabhava works through the Hierarchies. We have
returned to these two capital matters time after time, because it
is all-important from the philosophic, from the spiritual, and
from the ethical aspects, that these things should be as clear as
possible in our minds. Take, for instance, the cosmogonical
relation. We are not created by an extra-cosmic God ; Karman,
on the other hand, is not an extra-cosmic entity which said,
“ I create ” , and the world sprang into being. The highest
essence, the inmost of the essence of every Hierarchy, of the
practical infinitudes of Hierarchies, inter-locked and co-related
and working together and forming the universal cosmos in which
we live— the highest part of each one of these Hierarchies is a
super-divine monad, which we can call Parabrahman-Mfila-
prakriti. And its first manifestation or downward-looking energy,
its first breaking-forth into the plane below, is Brahman acting
in turn through its cosmic veil, Pradhana, as you will remember
we have before studied; and then comes Brahma-Prakriti, other­
wise called Purusha-Prakriti, which is the cosmic soul or
individual, and the nature or the vehicle in which it manifests ;
the logos and its universe ; the monad, and its sheaths, and so on.
Having these things clearly in mind, we can now take up
directly and more easily, more comprehensibly, the study of what
we mean by the psychology of man. The word is ordinarily used
to signify in our days and in the seats of learning in the Occident
a study more or less cloudy, mostly beclouded with doubts and
hypotheses, actual guess-work, meaning little more than a kind of
mental physiology, practically nothing more than the working
of the brain-mind in the lowest astral-psychical apparatus of the
124 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
human mind. But in our philosophy, as we all know, the word
psychology is used to mean something very different, and of a
nobler character : we might call it pneumatology, or the science
or the study of spirit, because all the inner faculties and powers
of man ultimately spring from his spirit. But as this word
“ pneumatology ” is an unusual one and might cause confusion,
let us retain the word “ psychology ” . We mean by it the study
of the inner economy of man, the interconnexion of his principles,
so to speak, or centers of energy or force— what the man really is
inwardly.
Man, like everything else in the universe, is founded upon the
dekadic skeleton or numerical framework of being— the number
ten. Three of these ten elements or planes or principles belong to
the artipa or formless world, and seven belong to the world of
manifestation and form. These seven latter principles produce
each other on a downward scale in the process of manifestation,
exactly as the Hierarchies do, each one emanating or evolving
a lower, and this lower evolving or emanating a still lower one,
and so down to the seventh or lowest.
Man can be considered as a being composed of three essential
bases ; the Sanskrit term is Upadhi. The meaning of the word
is that which stands forth following a model or pattern, as a
canvas, so to say, upon which the light from a projecting
lantern plays. It is a play of shadow and form, compared with
the ultimate Reality. These three bases or upadhis are, first,
the Monadic or spiritual; second, that which is supplied by the
Lords of Light, the so-called Manasa-Dhyanis, meaning the
intellectual and intuitive side of man, the element-principle that
makes man Man ; and the third basis or Upadhi we can call the
vital-astral-physical, if you please.
Now these three bases spring from three different lines of
evolution, from three different and separate Hierarchies of being.
Remember that each Hierarchy possesses in itself in embryo
everything that the entire universe is and has, the least as the
greatest, if we can say " least ” and " greatest ” of that which is
endless,— at any rate the least and greatest of any period of
manifestation. This is the reason why man is composite. He is
not one sole and unmixed entity; he is a composite entity, he
is a thing built up of various elements, and hence his principles
are, to a certain extent, separable. Any one of these three bases
can be temporarily separated from the two others, without
bringing about the death of the man physically. But the ele­
ments, so to say, that go to form any one of these bases,
cannot be separated without bringing about physical dissolution
or inner dissolution.
Now these three lines of evolution, these three aspects or
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 125
qualities of man, as said, come from three different Hierarchies,
or states, often spoken of as three different planes of being. The
lowest comes from the earth ; ultimately from the moon, our
cosmogonic mother. The middle, the manasic or intellectual-
intuitional, from the sun. The monadic from the Monad of
monads, the supreme flower, or acme, or rather the supreme
seed of the Universal Hierarchy which forms our Cosmical
Universe or Universal Cosmos.
It depends upon a correct understanding of the general inter­
connexion or the inter-working of these three separate parts of
the economy of the inner man, whether we shall obtain a proper
grasp of our future studies. We meet, as we have seen, at every
step— if we have followed our studies properly— new ideas, new
thoughts ; new links with the universe of light and being around
us, and of which we also are children. How terrible it would be
if we were to reach the limit of all that it was possible to know !
On the contrary, endless vistas of growing knowledge are always
before us, and we cannot attain them otherwise than by mounting
the steps of knowledge one by one.
We have heard it said by our Teachers that immortality is
conditional. This is a certain Truth. Immortality is not uncon­
ditional, and why ? For the reasons just pointed out. Man is a
composite being, and, as the Buddha said in the closing words
of his life, “ Brothers, all that is, is composite and transitory.
Therefore work out your own salvation This contains the
core of the whole philosophy of evolution, and occultly designates
ultimate immortality or annihilation for any one manvantara,
for man as a thinking entity.
Immortality is assured if the central principles which compose
the intellectual-intuitional man, have succeeded in rising to the
monadic plane where they become one with the monad, shining
upon them as a spiritual sun. And the loss of a soul for the
manvantara is assured if its Swabhava, its essential, characteristic,
energies, are directed downwards into brute matter.
The Teachers have told us, however, that the loss of the soul
cannot ensue as long as even one sole, single, spiritual aspiration
remains functionally active. Only when the unhappy entity
has arrived at the point where it can say, " Evil, be thou my
G od !” when not one single, quivering aspiration spiritward
remains, is it “ lost ” for the manvantara, when its essence, as it
were, is inverted, and its tendency is downwards, downward into
the avichi, where, as the Teachers have told us, circumstances
may bring about an almost immediate annihilation of it, or,
perhaps, a manvantara of Avichi-Nirvana, a fearful state indeed,
contrasted with the wondrous Nirvana of the Dhyan-Chohans, or
Lords of Mjditation.
K
126 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
On the one hand we may raise ourselves to become a God, yea,
even while dwelling in the flesh. On the other hand we may
allow ourselves to sink to the eighth sphere, where we pass into the
yawning portals of the “ Planet of Death ". Has it ever occurred
to any one of us to ask, Why are we here ? Why, having had
an infinity in which to evolve, are we not higher than we are
now ? Has it ever occurred to any one of us to ask whether we
may not be the “ fallen angels ", those very spiritual “ athletes "
who in a former great manvantara failed to win onwards to the
goal, failed to rise, failed to make the goal intended for them,
and were " cast down " to work our weary way upward again ?
Again, what do we mean by “ soul" as contrasted with
“ spirit " ? We speak of the human soul and the spiritual soul,
and we speak of the astral soul, and we speak of the animal soul.
But we do not use those terms in connexion with the word
" spirit ". It is our Teachers who first have used those expressions
in the connexions noted above. Does it not teach us that the
meaning of soul is that of a vehicle, an upádhi, in general; that
vehicle, or any vehicle, in which the monad, in any sphere of
manifestation, is working out its destiny ? But these vehicles
are conscious vehicles, they are living and sentient vehicles having
each one its own consciousness and its own thinking faculty ;
even these gross physical bodies of ours are not merely insensible
stocks. The physical body has its avenues of dull consciousness
and life ; it can feel, and, after its own poor dull manner, it can
think.
So, then, the loss of the soul is the loss of that which we, through
interminable ages, very, very laboriously have built up as our
inner temple, our home, in which we should rise to meet the Gods,
to become one with them; and more— it is the vehicle through
which we should carry up with us entities below us at present,
but through us approaching our own dignity of humanity—
entities of which the soul is actually composed, even as the atoms
in our physical bodies are infant-souls, physical entities, embryonic
things which we are informing and inspiring, if, indeed, we are not
sentencing them to a cycle of woe.
With Knowledge comes responsibility. The moral law will not
be thwarted. It cannot be played with. At every step, with
every morn, at every turn, at every choice, we face the right-
or the left-hand path, and we are forced to choose ; we must see
to it, every time, whether our feet are to be set upon the “ lumin­
ous arc ", or upon the " path of shadows " leading us downwards.
CHAPTER XIII
THE PROCESS OF EVOLUTION. SELF, EGO, AND SOUL : “ I AM "
AND “ I A M I
. . . Nothing in nature springs into existence suddenly, all being
subjected to the same law of gradual evolution. Realize but once the pro­
cess of the mahd cycle, of one sphere, and you have realized them all. One
man is born like another man, one race evolves, develops and declines like another
and all other races. Nature follows the same groove from the “ creation ” of a
universe down to that of a mosquito. In studying esoteric cosmogony, keep a
spiritual eye upon the physiological process of human birth ; proceed from cause
to effect establishing . . . analogies between the . . . man and that of a world.
. . . Cosmology is the physiology of the universe spiritualized, for there is but
one law.
The Mahatma Letters, pp. 70-71.
W
E open our study of The Secret Doctrine this evening
by reading from page 178, and a small portion from
page 179, of the first volume of The Secret Doctrine,
as follows :
Now the Monadic, or rather Cosmic, Essence (if such a term be
permitted) in the mineral, vegetable, and animal, though the same
throughout the series of cycles from the lowest elemental up to the
Deva Kingdom, yet differs in the scale of progression. It would be
very misleading to imagine a Monad as a separate Entity trailing its
slow way in a distinct path through the lower Kingdoms, and after an
incalculable series of transformations flowering into a human being;
in short, that the Monad of a Humboldt dates back to the Monad of an
atom of horneblende. Instead of saying a “ Mineral Monad," the more
correct phraseology in physical Science, which differentiates every
atom, would of course have been to call it “ the Monad manifesting in
that form of Prakriti called the Mineral Kingdom."
As the Monads are uncompounded things, as correctly defined by
Leibnitz, it is the spiritual essence which vivifies them in their degrees
of differentiation, which properly constitutes the Monad—not the
atomic aggregation, which is only the vehicle and the substance through
which thrill the lower and the higher degrees of intelligence.
Now, in resuming this evening our study from last week, it will
perhaps be well to preface it by reminding ourselves of the two
general desires which the Teacher had in mind, in inaugurating
our studies; first, the elucidation of the teachings contained in
H. P. Blavatsky's wonderful work ; and secondly, the providing
of tests, doctrinal tests, as it were, not tests in a dogmatic sense,
but doctrinal or mental tests which each one of us may have in
127
128 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
mind to remember and to apply when he takes up some book
treating of the ancient religions of the world, or of the modern
theories concerning those religions as given out by some modern
thinker.
The world at the present day is simply overwhelmed with books
of various sorts treating of quasi-spiritual, and of so-called psychic
and quasi-psychic matters, and to one who does not know the
key-doctrines of Theosophy, who has not, as H. P. Blavatsky had,
at his mental elbow, so to say, the teachings of the Ancient
Wisdom-Religion by which all these various matters may be
tested and proved, there is place for much mental confusion,
indecision, and doubt as to what the real sense or meaning there­
of may be, because many of these books are written very ably ;
but ability in writing well is no sign or proof that an author
understands properly the ancient thought; such ability is merely
the capacity of presenting certain thoughts— the writer’s own
views— clearly and often very praiseworthily ; but merely praise­
worthy writing is certainly no proof that a writer possesses an
adequate and sufficient criterion of the ancient truth itself.
Having therefore these doctrines of the Ancient Wisdom-
Religion (Theosophy) in mind, and properly understanding them,
we have tests by which we may prove to ourselves whether such
and such a doctrine of any religion, ancient or modern, or such
and such a teaching of any thinker, ancient or modern, is in accord
with that primeval spiritual and natural revelation granted to the
first members of the first human and truly thinking race by the
spiritual beings from whom we likewise derived our inner essence
and life, and who are, really, our own present spiritual selves.
Not being tests in a dogmatic religious sense at all, they are not
“ necessary to salvation ” . Heavens and hells do not depend for
their reality upon their acceptance or rejection by men, for
instance ; but we mean that Theosophy provides us with tests
which are tests in the same way as are the facts which an expert
in mathematics or in chemistry or in any other branch of science
or natural philosophy is enabled to employ in order to ascertain
when something new comes under his eye, or under his hand,
whether this new thing agrees with the truths already established
by himself and his collaborators in work.
At our last meeting we treated perforce only vaguely, and in a
mere sketch, of the difference existing between the spirit and the
soul. The spirit is the immortal element in us, the deathless
flame within us which dies never, which never was born, and
which retains throughout the entire maha-manvantara its own
quality, essence, and life, sending down into our own being and
into our various planes, certain of its rays or garments or souls
which we are; and furthermore, that these rays, in descending,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 129
constituted the life-essences of a Hierarchy, whether we treat of
our own selves as individual human beings, or whether we think
of the atom, or of the solar system, or of the universal cosmos.
We have this evening to consider more particularly the nature
and differences of Self and ego; and if we have time we shall
have need to remark at some length upon a doctrine which is
very strange to Western ears, and yet which contains in itself the
core, the very heart of what emanational evolution is, and which
also shows to us what our destiny is. It is that destiny which
leads us both downwards and then upwards, back to our spiritual
source, but possessing— rather being— something more than we
possessed— or rather were— when we began our great evolutionary
pilgrimage.
Now, before we start upon a sketch of the nature of, and the
difference between, self and ego, let us undertake very briefly an
analysis of what we mean when we speak of karman, for it is
necessary here. As we all know, karman is a Sanskrit word, and
it is derived from the Sanskrit root kri, a verb meaning to make
or to do. By adding the suffix ma to the root kri or the stem kar,
which comes, through one of the rules of the Sanskrit grammar,
from the root kri, we have the abstract noun, Karman. Literally
it means doing, making, hence action. It is a technical term,
that is, a term from which hangs a whole series of philosophical
doctrines.
We can consider it best from the standpoint of translating it by
the word results, because this word “ results ” , or “ fruits ",
seems to be its most general application in the technical sense of
the Esoteric Philosophy. Now Karman is not a law ; no God
made it. A human law, let us remember, is a maxim of conduct
or order of right, laid down by a law-giver, forbidding what is
wrong and inculcating and commanding what is right. Karman
is not that. Karman is the habit of universal and eternal Nature,
a habit inveterate, primordial, which so works that an act is
necessarily, by destiny, followed by an ineluctable result, a
reactionfrom the Nature in which we live. It was called by Mr. A. P.
Sinnett, one of H. P. Blavatsky’s early helpers, the " law of
ethical causation ” , an inadequate and misleading term, because,
first, Karman is more than ethical, it is both spiritual and material
and all between. It has its application on the spiritual, mental,
psychical, and physical planes. To call it the “ law of cause and
effect ” is much better, because more general, but even this
does not describe it adequately at all. The very essence of the
meaning of this doctrine is, that when anything acts in any state
of imbodied consciousness, it sets up an immediate chain of
causation, acting on every plane to which that chain of causation
reaches, to which the force extends.
130 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Human karman is bom within man himself. We are its creators
and generators, and also do we suffer from it or are clarified through
it, by our own previous actions. But what is this habit in itself,
das Ding an sich, as Kant would have said, this inveterate,
primordial habit of nature, which makes it react to an arousing
cause ! That is a question which we shall, at some future time,
have to go into more fully than we can do it this evening; but
we may say this much : that it is the will of the spiritual beings
who have preceded us in bygone kalpas or great manvantaras, and
who now stand as Gods, and whose will and thought direct and
protect the mechanism and the type and quality of the universe in
which we live. These great beings were once men in some former
great manvantara. It is our destiny ultimately to become like
unto them, and to be of their number, if we run the race of kalpic
evolution successfully.
Man, as our first great Teacher has set it forth, weaves around
himself from birth to death a web of action and of thought—
each one of them producing results, some immediately, some
later. Each act is a seed. And that seed inevitably, by the
doctrine of Swabhava, which we have been studying, will produce
the results which belong to it, and none other.
Swabhava, as we remember, is the doctrine of the essential
characteristic of anything, that is, that which makes it what it is,
and not something else : that which makes the lily a lily, and not
a rose or a violet; that which makes one being a horse, and
another a fly, and another a blade of grass, and so on— its essential
nature.
Now in our study of the Hierarchies in former meetings, we
remember that we noticed that each Hierarchy proceeded from
its own seed, its own seed-logos or the highest part of it, its crown
or pinnacle ; and that everything rolled down from it, rolled out
from the seed into being. So the human body grows from a
microscopic seed, as it were, into the man we know, partaking
of the nature around it, because it is a composite being. All
composite things are temporary and transitory. If they were
not composite, they could not manifest in any manner whatever.
It is the compositeness, the compound nature of them which
enables them to learn and to mingle with, and to be one in the
manifested sense with all the manifested universe around us.
You doubtless remember what we mentioned in former studies
of the wonderful doctrine of the ancient Stoics of Greece and
Rome, called the Krasis di' holou, the mingling through every­
thing, the intermingling of all; when this doctrine was applied
to the Gods, the ancient Stoics called it Theocrasy, not theocracy,
which means something else entirely. Theocrasy means the inter­
mingling of the Gods, even as human thoughts mingle on earth.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 131
Now the Self remains eternally itself on its own plane, but in
manifestation it intermingles, if we may use that term, with the
spheres of matter by raying itself, as does the sun; by communi­
cating itself as the divine ra y ; it shoots down into the spiritual
world, and thence into the intellectual world, and thence into the
psychic world, and thence into the astral world, and thence into
the physical. It creates at each one of these stages, at each plane
of the Hierarchy, a vehicle, a sheath, a clothing, a garment, and
these, just expressed by various names, on the higher plane are
called “ souls ” , and on the lower plane, “ bodies ” , and it is the
destiny of these souls— “ garments ” or " vehicles ” or " sheaths ”
of the spirit— ultimately to be raised upwards to divinity.
There is an immense difference— which is the strange doctrine
alluded to a short while ago and which we shall have to study
this evening— between purely unconscious spirit-life, and fully
self-developed, self-conscious spirituality. The monad starts out
on its cyclic journey, as was said before, as un-self-conscious God-
spark, and ends it as a self-conscious God, but it does this through
assimilation of manifested life and by carrying up with itself
the various souls which it has created in its cyclic pilgrimage, in
them developing its inner essence and through them understand­
ing and coming into relation with other monads and other soul-
selves. It is the raising of the soul (or rather the souls) through
the Self, to divinity, that constitutes the process of evolution, the
unfolding of the potentialities and capacities of the divine Seed.
We may now ask : What is the difference between the Self and
the ego ? The individual Self, we know, is a spiritual or rather
monadic “ Atom ” . It is that which in all things says “ I am ” ,
and hence is pure consciousness, direct consciousness, not reflected
consciousness. The ego is that which says ” I am I ”— indirect
or reflected consciousness, consciousness reflected back upon
itself as it were, recognising its own mayavi existence as a “ separ­
ate ” entity. See how marvellous these teachings are, for if we
understand this doctrine aright, it means spiritual salvation for
us ; and if we understand it wrongly, it means our going down­
wards ! For instance, intensity of egoism is the understanding
of it wrongly; and, paradox of paradoxes, impersonality is the
understanding of it rightly. As Jesus said in the first three
Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, voicing one of the teachings
of the Ancient Wisdom, " He who saves his life shall lose it, but
he who gives up his life for my sake, shall find it.”
Here we have the real meaning imbodied in a " dark saying ”
of a matter that we studied somewhat at our last meeting : the
doctrine of the “ loss of the soul ” , which we cannot touch upon
more at length this evening. We shall do so, however, at some
future meeting; but there, in words ascribed to Jesus and thrice
132 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
repeated, we have the inner meaning of this mystery : the because,
the why, and the how of it.
We return to the strange doctrine mentioned before, strange
to Western ears, strange to Western thought. You will remember
that H. P. Blavatsky frequently describes the processes of evolu­
tion and of development, as the starting out of the spiritual
essence down the “ shadowy arc ” into matter, and its growing
more and more dense, compact, and heavy the deeper it goes into
the ocean of the material world, until it passes a certain point—
the turning-point of the forces which arising in itself urge it
forward in that Maha-Manvantara; and that then it begins to
rise again along the upward cycle, the " luminous arc ” , back
towards the divinity from which it emanated as a Ray or Rays.
This monadic essence, this monadic stream, passing into evolution,
is, like an army or host, composed of a quasi-infinitude of indi­
vidual monads. We may call them spiritual “ Atoms ” , un-self-
conscious God-sparks. They gather to themselves as they descend
into matter— which is eternally there from the infinitude ofevolving
beings in all stages of development which had preceded them—
or, rather, they derive reflected or indirect consciousness (self-
consciousness) from that contact and intermingling. They
begin to have more than the mere feeling or rather simple cognition
of “ I am ” , or pure consciousness ; they begin to feel themselves
self-consciously at one with all that is. The un-self-conscious
God-spark is beginning self-consciously to recognise its own
essential and inherent divinity. It is developing self-consciousness,
and this ««//-consciousness is what we call the “ ego ” , the recogni­
tion that “ I am I ” , a part or ray of the A ll recognising that
wondrous truth.
Now consider the Hierarchy of the human being growing from
the Self as its Seed— ten stages, three on the arupa or immaterial
plane ; and seven (or perhaps better, six) on the plane of matter
or manifestation. On each one of these seven planes (or six
planes), the Self or Paramatman develops a sheath or garment,
the upper ones spun of spirit, or light if you w ill; and the lower
ones spun of shadow or matter ; and each such sheath or garment
is a soul; and between the Self and a soul— any soul— is the ego.
First in order is the Self, the divine entity or thing, or monad,
behind a ll; and growing from within it, like a sun developing
from within its own essence, along the karmic lines or paths of
the memories or ‘‘ results ” or “ fruits ” brought over from the
preceding great Manvantara, thus developing strictly according
to the Skandhas in its own nature, is the ego, contacting and inter­
mingling with matter and the other hosts of intelligences of this
Mahfi-Manvantara. The ego throws out from itself— as the seed
will throw out its green blade, developing into the tree with its
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 133
branches and its twigs and its numberless leaves— it throws out
from itself its garment or sheath or vehicle spun of light or spun
of shadow, according to the plane or point upon which it is ; and
this ethereal or spiritual or astral garment of the ego is the soul—
that is, any soul.
There are many souls in man. There are likewise many egos
in man ; but back of them all, both egos and souls, is the deathless
flame, the Self. Remember that the ancient Egyptians also
taught of the various souls of man, of the manifold selves of man,
of the several egos of man. We have not spoken often as yet of
the ancient Egyptian teachings, because they are exceedingly
difficult on account of being inwrapped in complicate symbol and
allegory; they are the most hid, perhaps, the most inshrouded
with tropes and figures of speech of any ancient system. But the
old truths are there ; they are the same age-old teachings.
Now evolution is the unfolding, the developing, the bringing out
from the divine Seed within of all its latent capacities, its Swab-
hava in short: its individual characteristics or the essence of its
being. The whole effort of evolution, however, is not merely
to bring out that which is within each individual Seed ; but also
that each individual monad, and each ego, and each soul, shall
gather up from the matter in which it works, other less progressed
entities which become parts of itself, and shall carry them along
with it on the arc of the evolutionary journey upwards.
Each one of us is therefore a potential Christ, a potential
Christos, because while we are, each one of us, a Christos within,
intrinsically, each one of us is, or should be, a “ savior ” of his
fellow-men likewise, and of all the lower beings under him, under
his guidance and sway. If a man or woman ill-treats or treats
nobly the atoms of his or her body, he or she is held responsible
at the hands of karman, so to say, before the Divine Tribunal of
his own Self; yea, to the very last farthing, he shall be held to a
strict accounting. Look at the dignity with which this noble
teaching endows and crowns our human species ! What a sublime
meaning do the doctrines of our Teachers have in this light!
Man is responsible ; because when he has achieved self-conscious­
ness even in minor degree he becomes a creator thereby, and
becomes therefore responsible to a co-ordinate extent. He
becomes a collaborator and co-worker with the Gods whom he is
destined to join as one of themselves.
If the life-stream, if the stream of monads, if any individual
monad has passed the lowest point of its manvantaric cycles
safely, has safely swung past the path leading downward at the
mid-point of the fourth Round, and successfully starts out on the
upward way, along the " Luminous Arc ” , it is safe to a certain
extent, but not yet wholly so, because that same test comes
134 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
again at the mid-point in each Round. But the mid-point of the
fourth Round is the most critical. We all know what a Round is,
and the seven through which we must pass before we complete
our evolutionary pilgrimage on this planet. But if the monadic
spark passes safely through each of the three Rounds to come,
then in the last Round, on the last or seventh globe, in the last
race of that globe, he shall blossom out as a Dhyan-Chohan, a
" Lord of Meditation ” . Already almost a God. And those of
us who shall have made the race successfully, shall, after the
long Nirvana that awaits us after the seven Rounds are completed,
which Nirvana is a period of unspeakable bliss corresponding
to the devachan between two earth-lives ; those of us, I say, who
shall have become these Lords of Meditation, shall become the
forerunners, the makers, the developers, the Gods of the future
planet which shall be the child of this, as this globe, Terra, was
the child of our mother, the Moon ; and so on for ever, but always
advancing higher and higher up the rungs of the wondrous Ladder
of Cosmic Life.
Now this is the strange and wonderful doctrine, strange and
wonderful to Western ears. Endless are the ramifications of
thought which spring from it. Think of the destiny before us !
Yes : and it is also wise, as our Teachers have often told us, to
look at the other side. Let us turn our faces from the morning
sunlight occasionally, and look in the other direction. Remember
that we have innate and ineluctable moral responsibilities where
ethical problems are involved. We have, to a certain extent,
knowledge; hence power, hence responsibility. Behind us,
trailing upwards, are infinitudes of beings who are less than we.
Each one of them is on the same path whereon we have trodden,
ourselves; each one of them having to go over that same path,
stained with the blood from our own feet. And shall they fail
for lack of our help ? They shall have to pass the danger-point,
even as we have done ; because the teaching is that at the middle
point of every evolution there is a downward path, leading into
spheres of being grosser and more material than ours.
When our planet first started, or rather first was started, on
its course of emanational evolution, the propelling agents in that
were the Dhyan-Chohans from the lunar chain, i.e., those who
had run the evolutionary race successfully there ; and behind
them, trailing after them, we came, seven classes of us, the most
evolved, the less, the less, the less, the less, the animals, the
vegetables, and the minerals.
Our time is drawing to a close this evening, but there is one
point which it seems incumbent upon us to touch upon at least
slightly. When Leibnitz, the great German philosopher, spoke of
the inherent urge in every monad propelling it into manifestation,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 135
he spoke from the ancient books, from the Pythagorean and the
Neo-Platonic teachings, of which he was a student, and he meant
what we do when we speak of the Swabhava, the essential nature
of a thing. There is, however, one point of his teaching to which
we must allude, where he says in substance that our world is the
best possible world in the universe. Those of you who are acquain­
ted with the great French philosopher, Voltaire, may remember
his book, Candide, or "Optimism” , in which Voltaire evidently is
tilting at the optimistic theories of Leibnitz, and in which two of
his characters are the inveterately irrational optimist, Dr. Pan­
gloss, and the young man, Candide, Dr. Pangloss’s pupil, a young
philosopher, a thorough-going selfish optimist, who accepted all
the rebuffs of life with great indifference and calmness, and with
a smile at human misery. And Voltaire has a passage commenting
upon these two characters (Candide, Ch. VI), where he says,
with all that pungent, aphoristic point, which is so great an
ornament of the French genius, “ Si c’est ici le meilleur des
mondes possibles, que sont done les autres ? ” That is, “ If this
is the best of all possible worlds, how about the others ” ? A very
comprehensive remark indeed, and a very true one. It is not the
best possible of all worlds. Far from it. It were indeed a weary
and hopeless outlook for our human kind, if it were ! Yet the
great German philosopher was right in this sense, that it is the
best possible world which the world’s karman has enabled it to be
or to produce; and if it is not better, we ourselves are largely
responsible for it.
We see in this amusing reference to the theories of Leibnitz
and Voltaire, the true meaning of the word optimism. Our own
majestic philosophy gives us a far wider vision, a more penetrating
insight into things ; a profounder understanding of the so-called
Riddle of Life. Everything is relative, one of the greatest teachings
of the Esoteric philosophy. There are no absolutes (in the usual
European sense of that word) anywhere. Everything is relative,
because everything is interlinked and intermingles with every
other thing. If there were an absolute, in the European sense,
there could be nothing but the barren silence and immutability
of complete and utter perfection, which is impossible, for there
would be in such case, there could be, no growth, no future growth,
no past development, spiritually, mentally, or in any other
wise.
We now close. At our next meeting, upon the Teacher's
direction, we shall take up the study of the so-called Hells and
Heavens, for this branch of our investigation is a very necessary
part of the psychological side of our study which we began at our
last meeting ; and we say this evening only this, that, as before
often remarked, all the doctrines and dogmas and teachings and
136 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
tenets of the great world-religions, are based fundamentally upon
some more or less obscure tru th u su a lly very much obscured
by ignorance or fanaticism, or by both; and, in conclusion, let
us note well that there are no hells, and there are no heavens, as
these are commonly supposed to be ; but spheres of life and ex­
perience corresponding to each class of the myriad degrees of
entities in being. As Jesus is said to have stated in the Christian
Gospels : “ In my Father’s house are many mansions There
are in the endless Kosmos innumerable appropriate places of
retributive bliss or retributive woe for all grades of souls, and in
these karmically appropriate places, the countless hosts of evolving
entities of all classes find their properly and exactly adjusted
places.
CHAPTER XIV
" HEAVENS " AND “ HELLS " : TEACHINGS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILO­
SOPHY, AND OF THE EXOTERIC RELIGIONS.
The devachan [' heaven '] merges from its highest into its lowest degree— by
insensible gradations ; while from the last step of devachan [downwards] the
Ego will often find itself in Avichi’s [‘ hell’s '] faintest state, which, towards the
end of the “ spiritual selection ” of events may become a bona fide “ Avichi.”
The Mahatma Letters, p. 188.
From Kfima-Loka then . . . the newly translated " Souls ” go all (but the
shells) according to their attractions, either to Devachan or Avichi.
The Mahatma Letters, p. 199.
Ye suffer from yourselves, none else compels. . . .
Light of Asia (Arnold).
W
E open our study this evening by reading from The
Secret Doctrine, Volume II, page 273, the following :
For the evolution of Spirit into matter could never have
been achieved; norwould it have received its first impulse,
had not the bright spirits sacrificed their own respective super-ethereal
essences to animate the man of clay, by endowing each of his inner
principles with a portion, or rather, a reflection of that essence. The
Dhy&nis of the Seven Heavens (the seven planes of Being) are the
n o u m e n o i of the actual and the future Elements, just as the Angels of
the Seven Powers of nature—the grosser effects of which are perceived
by us in what Science is pleased to call the “ modes of motion "—the
imponderable forces and what not—are the still higher noumenoi of
still higher Hierarchies.
This is an exceedingly interesting paragraph. It contains, in
small compass, the entire outline of the studies that we have been
pursuing for some weeks past.
In taking up this evening the study of the so-called “ heavens "
and “ hells ", it may be well first of all to repeat what was said
in the conclusion of our last study : that there are no heavens
and there are no hells, as these are outlined in the exoteric religions.
Those conceptions are based, however, upon teachings which
actually came from the Mystery-doctrines, and, as we have
before said, they contain in themselves the outline of a truth,
indeed, of a great truth, when properly understood. But while
we do not accept the Christian heaven and the Christian hell, nor
the Mohammedan heavens nor the Mohammedan hells, nor the
literal exoteric teachings concerning them as found among the
137
138 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Buddhists and the ancient Greeks and the Romans, nevertheless
there actually are in Nature certain spheres of being in which
those portions of man’s constitution which survive the death of
the physical body, find appropriate dwelling-places; they are, in
fact, retributive realms or spheres of being, to which are magneti­
cally attracted those parts of his constitution which in him are
of similar or identical quality.
Jesus, in the Gospel “ according to John ” , 14th Chapter, the
second verse, says the following: “ In my Father’s house are
many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. I go
to prepare a place for you ” . He said this in the long final address
which he gave to his disciples before his arrest and appearance
before the authorities, according to the Christian legends.
Now there is no great religion of the ancient time which does
not teach in more or less clear and definite form the existence of
certain forces of " reward ” or of retribution, acting after man's
death in appropriate spheres in which the so-called soul of man
meets with retribution, or, as some say, “ punishment ” or
" reward ” , after physical death. Those spheres in which the soul
shall receive appropriate retributive purgation, or " punishment ” ,
are called hells, in the English tongue; and those in which the
soul shall receive appropriate retributive repose and reward are
commonly called heavens ; and because these words are familiar
to Europeans, and represent with fair accuracy the general idea
of post mortem retribution prevalent in all great religions, it
may be best for us to use them. But we must positively clear out
of our minds, wash our minds clean of, all ideas that have been
put into them by the miseducation of the dogmatic theologies,
if we are to gain a correct idea of what the Esoteric Philosophy
teaches on these lines.
We must remember that we are studying the occultism of the
archaic ages. Now this word “ occultism ” meant originally only
the science of things hid ; even in the Middle Ages of Europe,
those philosophers who were the forerunners of the modern
scientists, those who then studied physical nature, called their
science " occultism ” , and their studies “ occult ” , meaning the
things that were hid, or not known to the common run of mankind.
Such a medieval philosopher was Albertus Magnus, a German ;
and so also was Roger Bacon, an Englishman; both of the
thirteenth century of the Christian Era.
Therefore, ” occultism ” as we use the term, and as it should be
used, means the study of the hid things of being, the science of
life or universal Nature ; in one sense this word can be used to
mean the study of unusual " phenomena ” , which meaning it
usually has today among people who do not think, or who will
not think, of the vastly larger field of causes which “ Occultism ” ,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 139
properly speaking, investigates. Doubtless mere " phenomena "
have their place in study, but they are on the frontier, as it were,
on the outskirts,— and they are the superficialities— of occultism.
In studying true occultism we must penetrate deep into the causal
mysteries of being ; and, in very truth, we have been doing this
since the Teacher inaugurated these studies : step by step, have
we been going deeper into the realm of causes.
Now, in order fully to comprehend the destiny of the soul, post
mortem, and before its next rebirth in a physical body on this
plane, it is incumbent upon us first to say that there is a vast field
of teachings with regard to death upon which we do not feel at
present privileged to roam. This is a matter which rests entirely
with the Teacher's discretion, and only upon her explicit instruc­
tions will anything be said regarding that field in these studies.
Yet there are certain things which we can touch upon. The
reason for our necessary reticence and silence with regard to the
forbidden field mentioned, is this, that, as remarked in one of our
former studies, the teachings with regard to the deeper mysteries
of death give keys to mysteries of still greater magnitude and
scope, and in ancient days were communicated only to a chosen
few, at any time. Any one of you who chooses to look into the
religious mystical literatures of the world, can prove this fact for
himself.
In former studies we have traced the peregrination of the monad
from the state of latency into manifestation, as viewedfrom below.
Now the monad is a spiritual “ atom ” , so to say ; let us call it
this evening a spiritual radical (radicle), using this word “ radical ”
in precisely the double sense in which H. P. Blavatsky used the
word " radical ” when she spoke of comets as " those long-haired
sidereal radicals ”— with a touch of real humour in one sense, but
also hinting, by the use of the word, at a great truth of the
Esoteric Philosophy with regard to comets in calling them
“ radicals ” . You know what radical originally meant. It meant
a (little) root, from the Latin radix, hence its application to a
comet as the root or the germ of a future world. So, also, a monad
is a radical, a radical in both the senses in which she used them,
an “ aggressive ” (in the sense of self-acting, self-developing)
entity, and also a root, a germ of a future God.
Now this radical, in order to attain self-consciousness, and con­
scious self-consciousness, must pass down the " arc of shadows ”
until it reaches the turning-point of the great Cycle in that man-
vantara, and as an integral part of and belonging to the Hier­
archy evolving in that manvantara. By that time, if its Karman
is so, it has reached conscious self-consciousness, and is manifest­
ing on our plane as a man. Thereupon it starts upwards along
the “ luminous arc ” , or the arc of ascension, and if it is successful
140 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
in its cyclic pilgrimage, it finally blossoms forth into a God. We
must remember this general outline if we wish to understand
clearly what we mean by “ heavens ” and “ hells
The whole aim of evolution, the entire destiny of the spiritual
radical, is the elevating of the consciously personal into the
consciously impersonal— so important a thought that we are
obliged to say that it lies as the very first conception and as the
root of the whole Esoteric Philosophy. A self-conscious God can
be such only because it has a vehicle of self to work through ; and
this is what the spiritual radical lacks when it starts out on its
cyclic pilgrimage. Manhood must be raised to Godhood.
Now we may begin to see here the meaning of what our first
Teacher spoke of as the “ loss of the soul ” . At every step down­
ward, as its self-consciousness is slowly and gradually evolved in
any manvantara, the monad fabricates into itself, or secretes from
itself, and excretes from itself, vehicles proper for its cognizing
the forces and matter on the various planes through which it
passes, and in which it manifests. Those on the higher planes are
egos, and each ego secretes its own appropriate vehicle, called a
soul. Consequently, there is an ego and a soul for each step down­
ward : a dual vehicle for manifesting the monadic essence on every
plane. Through the whole, as a golden cord, runs the Self, the
innermost consciousness, the spiritual “ I am ” . The ego-soul
gives to the monad the consciousness “ I am I The Self, how­
ever, is the same in all of us. “ I am I ” is the quality only of the
ego. Therefore the important thing is to “ save ” the ego. The
higher egos are saved because of previous salvation gained in
former manvantaras. But the lower egos and their souls are built
up out of the matter and consciousness of this manvantara, and
they must be “ saved ” . The state of human consciousness in
which we— mankind— now live in this epoch and in this man­
vantara, is called in the individual the human soul, the human
ego; and this human soul and this human ego must be “ saved ” ,
because our self-consciousness is centred therein. We use the
word “ saved ” , because none better occurs to us : at least the
word is familiar. This “ saving ” means that the ego-soul must
be rescued from the magnetic attraction of matter.
But what happens if its education is incomplete when at the
bottom of the arc, before beginning the ascent along the ‘‘luminous
arc ” , and it becomes unable to run the race and fails ? Suppose
that the pull of matter is too strong and that its attraction is
downward. Slowly, in that case, the links with the higher Self are
broken, the golden chain is ruptured, and the whole effort of the
monad in that manvantara is lost. The entity cycling downward
is what is called a “ lost soul ”.
Now a “ lost soul ” has naught to do with the “ heavens ” and
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 14!
the “ hells The state of Nirvana, again, has nothing to do with
the “ heavens ” and the “ hells The “ heavens ” and the
“ hells ” concern only the truly human entity : that is, the human
ego and the human soul; only this grade of consciousness, for to
it belong those consciousnesses which can partake of the concep­
tion of, and can experience, felicity or misery. Nirvana is beyond
felicity; it is, of course, beyond misery; its opposite pole is
Nirvana-avichi, a subject which we shall have to discuss, if we
have time for it, either this evening or at our next study. Nirvana-
avichi is the utter contrast of Nirvana, it is the lowest point, the
nether pole of conscious being.
Now when the body breaks up at physical death the astral
elements remain in the “ shadow-world ” with the same conscious
center, as in life, clinging within them, still vitalizing them ; and
certain processes there go on of which our Teachers have more or
less fully told u s; and consequently there is no need for us to
take time this evening in discussing what Kama-Loka is or Deva-
chan is, particularly. But when the “ second death ", after that
of the physical body, takes place— and there are many deaths,
that is to say many changes of the vehicles of the ego,— when the
second death takes place, what becomes of the human center, the
truly human entity ? We have been told that the higher part of it
withdraws into itself all that aspires towards it, and takes that
“ all " with it into the devachan ; and that the Atman, with the
Buddhi, and with the higher part of the Manas— which is the so-
called human soul, or the mind— becomes thereupon the spiritual
monad of man. Strictly speaking, this is the divine monad within
its vehicle— Atman and Buddhi— combined with the human ego
in its higher manasic element; but they are joined into one after
death, and are hence spoken of as the spiritual monad.
The human monad “ goes " to Devachan. Devachan is a
Tibetan word and may be translated as God-land, God-country,
God-region. There are many degrees in Devachan : the highest,
the intermediate, and the lowest. What becomes of the entity, on
the other hand, the lower human soul, that is so befouled with
earth-thought and the lower instincts that it cannot rise ? There
may be enough in it of the spirit-nature to hold it together as an
entity and enable it to become a reincarnating entity, but it is
foul, it is heavy ; its tendency is consequently downwards. Can
it therefore rise into a heavenly felicity ? Can it go even into the
lower realms of Devachan and there enjoy its modicum of the
beatitude, bliss, of everything that is noble and beautiful ? No.
There is an appropriate sphere, a sphere appropriate for every
degree of development of the ego-soul, and it gravitates to that
sphere and remains there until it is thoroughly purged, until the
sin has been washed out, so to say.
L
142 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
These are the so-called " hells ” , beneath even the lowest parts
of Devachan ; and the “ artipa heavens ” are the highest parts of
the Devachan. Nirvana is a very different thing from the
" heavens Nirvana is a state of utter bliss and complete, un­
trammelled consciousness, a state of absorption in pure Being, and
is the wondrous destiny of those who have reached superhuman
knowledge and purity and spiritual illumination. It really is
personal absorption into or identification with the Self— the
Highest Self. It is also the state of the monadic entities in the
period that intervenes between minor manvantaras, or Rounds,
of a Panetary Chain ; and more fully so between each seven-
Round Period, or Day of Brahma, and the succeeding Day or new
Kalpa of a Planetary Chain. At these last times, starting forth
from the seventh sphere in the seventh Round, the monadic
entities have passed far beyond even the highest state of Deva­
chan. Too pure and too far advanced even for such a condition
as the devachanic felicity, they go to their appropriate sphere and
condition, which latter is the Nirvana following the end of the
seventh Round.
Now what do the Ancients say in their exoteric religions, about
these so-called “ heavens ” and " hells ” ? Every such ancient
religion taught that the so-called heavens are divided into steps
or grades of ascending bliss and purity ; and the so-called hells
into steps or grades of increasing purgation or suffering. Now the
Esoteric Doctrine, our Occultism, teaches that the one is not a
" punishment ” , nor is the other, strictly speaking, a reward. The
teaching is, simply, that each entity after physical death is drawn
to the appropriate sphere to which the karmic destiny of the
entity magnetically attracts it. As a man works, as a man sows,
in his life, that and that only shall he reap after death. Good seed
produces good fruit; bad seed, tares— and perhaps even nothing
of value or of spiritual use follows a negative and colourless life.
There is no " law ” of karman ; we repeat, there is no “ law ” of
karman. There are no " laws ” of nature; we repeat, there are
no “ laws ” of nature. What is a natural " law ” ? Is a natural
" law ” a God ? Is it a being ? Is it an entity ? Is it a Force ? Is
it an energy ? If so, what God produces it ? The word " law ” ,
however, is convenient enough provided we understand what we
mean by it. Perhaps no better word, in our day, could be found
for ordinary usage in writing popularly or in conversation. But
do not let us make the mistake of taking abstractions for realities.
In this study of the marvellous doctrines of our Occultism we shall
never move a step forward towards a proper understanding of
Nature, if we do make this mistake. We must wash our minds
clean, of occidental scientific and theological miseducation. The
so-called " laws of nature ” and the “ law of Karman ” are simply
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 143
the various workings of consciousnesses in Nature: truly and
actually, they are Habits, habits of beings. We replace the abstrac­
tions of occidental science and theology with the action and the
ineluctable results thereof of consciousnesses and wills in the
spheres of being of the Hierarchies of Life. We are simply abus­
ing our intelligence, stultifying our intellects, when we go around
and around the vicious circles of materialistic theory and think we
have satisfied our inquiring minds by replacing the work of end­
less Hosts of Beings in and of Nature with an abstraction called
" law ” or “ laws ” . Think of i t ! Do we realize that not one
single great thinker of the ancients, until the Christian era, ever
talked about “ laws of Nature ” , as if these " laws ” were living
beings; as if these abstractions were actual entities which did
things ? Did the “ laws of navigation ” ever navigate a ship ?
Does the " law of gravity ” pull the planets together ? Does it
unite or pull the atoms together ? Nonsense. This word “ law ”
is simply an abstraction, an expression for the action of entities in
Nature. The word “ law ” , as said before, is perhaps a convenient
term, and if we understand what we mean when we use it, then all
right. But we must understand it. The ancients put realities,
living beings, in the place of “ laws ” , which, as we use the term,
are only abstractions; they did not cheat themselves so easily
with words. They called them Gods. Very good ; call them,
then, Gods. They called them spiritual entities. Very good, then.
Call them so. Call them Dhyanis, or by any other name you
please. But pin your faith, direct your intellects, to actual, living
beings, to realities, not to nothingnesses, not to abstractions, which
have no reality except as modes of speech.
Let us take for example the ancient Brahmanical teachings.
There, we find many divisions of “ heavens ” and “ hells ” ; but
the common one is the division into seven lower spheres, or lokas,
or “ hells ” , or infernal halls ; and the seven superior lokas, which
we may call " heavens ” . The Buddhist teaching usually gives
the number as 21 hells, for which the common word is Narakas ;
and the Buddhists also used the word lokas for the higher spheres ;
but note well that in all ancient systems, these higher and lower
spheres or grades were in ascending and descending steps. There
was the highest, and all the others which followed, decreasing in
felicity and purity by degrees, each one growing more material
and less happy with each step downward, until they passed in­
sensibly into the higher hells, and here again still further increas­
ing in materiality downward until the end of the Hierarchy of
these stages was reached.
Now among the very lowest of these hells, the Buddhists placed
Avichi; this is a Sanskrit word, and its general meaning is “ wave­
less ” , having no waves, or movement, suggesting the stagnation
144 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
of life and being, in immobility ; it also means “ without happi­
ness ” ; or “ without repose ” ; and below that another Hier­
archy begins, a new world ! What endless realms for speculation
open to us here !
We can here but sketch— our remaining time this evening is so
short— an outline of the doctrines concerning the “ heavens ” and
the ‘‘ hells ” . In beginning with a general outline, we are pursuing
the general plan of study as it has been authorized by the Teacher.
First, we try to give the general sketch, the general view, later
filling in the necessary details as we pursue our subject, although
frequently alluding to another teaching connected with it, pur­
posely doing so ; and in this way we are following the ancient
system or method of teaching these different subjects. In our
modern Occidental institutions of learning, it is customary,
perhaps a rigorous requirement, that the lecturer shall pursue to
the end all details of a subject embarked upon : opening one line
of investigation and not deviating from it until everything in
theory and practice, or supposed to be there, is known, or thought
to be known ; and when that one line of study is fully exhausted,
and when the intellect is completely crystallized in that form, and
weary, then opening a new line of investigation. This method is
positively contrary to Nature. Neither child nor adult learns life’s
lessons in such artificial fashion. The ancients knew better the
psychology of teaching and learning. They built up, first, the
general view, such as has a man on a mountain-top with the
general topographical view before his vision, whence he constructs
a topographical survey which he retains in his mind ; and when
he goes down into the valley, he is enabled easily to fill in all
necessary details. This is Nature’s method, if we may so speak of
i t ; and it is what is called the Platonic method : first the general,
then the particular. In logic, this is called the deductive system,
as opposed to the Aristotelian or inductive method, on which
modern Western teaching is based.
Now the Egyptians, as we know from their papyri, taught the
existence of many spheres after death, the many planes of felicity
and beatitude and the many planes of suffering or purgation,
spheres which the defunct entity had to pass through before
it reached one or the other of the goals of post mortem life :
“ heaven ” or “ hell ” . The teachers of ancient times had a way,
an allegorical way, of expressing the course of life after death, and
in this manner kept the intuition alive and active without touch­
ing upon forbidden matters, secrets or mysteries of the sanctuaries.
Let us take in this connexion, as illustration, the teaching of the
Mithraic religion, which came very close, at one time, to ousting
completely the Christian doctrine. The Mithraists taught the
existence of seven (and nine) heavens, each one preceded and
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 145
followed by another one, inferior or superior, respectively ; and
each one was to be attained by a “ ladder ” , which was only a
graphic, a neat, way of speaking. Of course they meant only that
the “ ladder ” was a representation of the steps, grades, or
degrees, which the soul had to climb, in order to attain the goal;
and the " ladder ” was likewise a figure of the degrees of the
hierarchy— the steps, the planes, the spheres, of which it is com­
posed. They had also their seven degrees of initiation, based upon
the rising scale existent in Nature ; and two other degrees which
were considered as too sacred to speak of openly ; and this makes
nine degrees in all.
How about the ancient Scandinavians ? Take the case of their
Niflheim, a word meaning “ cloudy (or misty) dwelling-place ” ,
" home ” , or ” mansion ” . This nebulous region was the ninth,
the lowest, in their system, and itself was composed of nine minor
worlds or spheres. Very careful indeed were the writers of the
Eddas in the way they taught; but they give us enough to show
us the same identical teachings as found elsewhere over the world.
I am speaking here more particularly of the Prose Edda, which is
more open in its esoteric allusions than is the poetic Edda, the
Edda of verse. Now the Prose Edda tells us that on one side, the
northern, of the cosmic space, were cold and gloom, and it gives
to this sphere the name N ifl=" nebulous region” , which is a
generalizing of the meaning of the name ; Nifl had nine divisions
or degrees ; but more particularly Nifl was the name of the lowest
of the nine ; still, the Edda gave that name to the entire series of
nine spheres, on the north. A middle region was the Ginnungagap,
an Old Norse word which can be translated perhaps as yawning
abyss, or abyss (or Gap) of abysses ; this was the middle or inter­
mediate sphere ; and then came Muspellheim, to the south, a place
of fire and flame and warmth, not necessarily anything like the
Christian hell, for, as a matter of fact, it was nearer like a heaven
than a hell; elemental or divine beings lived there, a natural
thought to the cold-enduring Scandinavians. Their hell was cold ;
and the hells of Southrons were h o t; these words being merely
appropriate ways of expressing things to be easily apprehended
by the people.
What did the early Christians or the medieval Christians believe
as regards " heaven ” and “ hell ” ? Let us choose the descriptions
of Dante, the great Italian poet, for instance ; for he echoes the
ancient pagan teaching remarkably in some ways; always in a
distorted manner, it is true ; but you can see the ancient truth
under all that he wrote. How significant it is that he made Vergil,
the great Latin poet, his conductor through his Infernos, or hells,
and through his Purgatory ; but in due deference to his Christian
teachers and the Christian age in which he lived, when he came to
146 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
the heavens, which he describes, he has a Christian guide, his
Beatrice, and of course he had to follow his Christian doctrines.
Dante divides his hells into nine circles. He divides his Purgatory
into seven circles, preceded by the Ante-purgatory, and followed by
the Terrestrial Paradise, which make again nine. In each of these
hells, and in each of these divisions of Purgatory— places of
purification— he shows the lowest as the most terrible; the
second above it is not quite so fearful, and the third less so than
the second ; and so on up through the eighteen circles or degrees
of Hells and Purgatory to the topmost one of the Purgatory, which
is scarcely, if at all, unpleasant. Finally, Dante divides his
heavens into nine, and these are topped by the Empyrean, the
dwelling-place of God and his Angels I ! Thus, there are nine
hells; seven divisions of Purgatory, with the Ante-purgatory
and the Terrestrial Paradise— again nine ; nine heavens; the
Empyrean : 9+ 9+ 9+ 1= 28, divisions of non-physical life, each
one appropriated to punish certain vices or reward certain virtues
after death. A curiously faithful, curiously distorted, and often
grotesque, parody of the archaic doctrine.
CHAPTER XV
THE EVOLUTION OF THE “ ABSOLUTE GENERALIZED PLAN OF
EVOLUTION ON ALL PLANES. SEVEN KEYS TO WISDOM AND
FUTURE INITIATIONS.
Containing all things in the one summit of his own hyparxis, he himself
subsists wholly beyond. P roclus . ^ g/ ^ p ^ (CoRy }
You will not understand it, as when understanding some particular thing.
Damascius. (Cory.)
Things divine are not attainable by mortals who understand body,
But only as many as are lightly armed arrive at the summit.
Proclus : Commentary on the Cratylus of Plato. (Cory.)
I
N opening our study this evening we read first from The
Secret Doctrine, Vol. I, page 570, the first paragraph :
While the Christian is taught that the human soul is a breath
of God—being created by him for sempiternal existence, i.e.,
having a beginning, but no end (and therefore never to be called eternal)
—the Occult teaching says, “ Nothing is created, but is only transformed.
Nothing can manifest itself in this universe—from a globe down to a
vague, rapid thought—that was not in the universe already ; every­
thing on the subjective plane is an eternal is : as everything on the
objective plane is an ever becoming—because transitory/'
Now, in resuming our study this evening, you will remember
that at our last meeting, on account of the lack of time, we were
obliged to confine ourselves to a short review of the subject of the
Heavens and Hells as doctrinally held by various exoteric re­
ligions ; and in considering several theological or philosophical or
mythological teachings about them, we had reached the view­
point of the medieval Christian theology, as represented in the
Divina Commedia of the great Italian poet, Dante ; and we found
in that really noble poem that Dante wrote of nine Circles com­
prised in his Inferno or H ell; seven belonging properly to his
Purgatory, but preceded by the Ante-Purgatory, and the seventh
Circle of the Purgatory followed by his Terrestrial Paradise, thus
forming nine Circles or Departments in that division. Then he
speaks of the nine Heavens, topped finally by the Empyrean, in
which last sits God surrounded by the holy Angels and the spirits
of the Just. So that we find here once again, as we found in the
other systems that we have mentioned, the wonderful number
nine as the root-number of division.
*47
148 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
W e also touched briefly upon the ancient Scandinavian beliefs
in regard to this subject as found in the Younger or Prose Edda,
and merely vaguely alluded to the teachings therein contained.
W e also spoke of the beliefs of the Greek and Latin Stoics ; and
we might also have pointed out that in an important so-called
" Hermetic ” work, supposed to have had its origin in Egypt, but
which has been greatly altered by later Christian hands— the work
I refer to being called The Divine Poemandres— there are seven
spheres or stages of being spoken of, as also vague allusions to an
eighth, while a ninth is merely hinted at also.
Now turning to ancient Greece again, we find that the great
Greek poet Homer, in the Eighth Book of the Iliad, makes his
Zeus speak, in addressing the gods and goddesses, of the “ Golden
Chain ” . Zeus tells the other divinities in very masterful language
of his supreme power, and that if they all, the gods and goddesses
of high Olympus, were to drag downward at one end of that
Chain, and he were to hold the other, he Zeus himself, alone,
could drag it upwards with all the gods and goddesses, all the
seas and the earths, and hang that Golden Chain, with them all
at the nether end, to one of the pinnacles of heaven. W hat is
the meaning of this curious tale ? The following :
This Golden Chain represents the concatenation of the living
Hierarchies which we have studied before. The Golden Chain
of all Being, inward and outward. In the same address to the
assembly of the Divinities of Olympus, Zeus speaks as follow s:
" A ny one of you who despises m y words and will, I shall cast
down into gloomy Tartarus . . . which is as far below Hades as
Earth is below Olympus ” . This shows us somewhat of Homer’s
representation of the framework of Kosmos, which was somewhat
as follow s: Earth, or rather the Universe, was represented as
a sphere : Olympus was placed at the upper or northern side or
p o le ; what was called " Earth ” was the next part b elo w ;
below Earth was H ad es; and at the nether pole from Olympus
was placed Tartarus. Homer, through his Zeus, tells us that as
far below Olympus as Earth is, so far below Hades is Tartarus.
The Greek poet Hesiod, in his Theogony, beginning w ith Verse
721, also tells us that if a brazen anvil were allowed to fall from
Olympus to Earth it would take nine days to fall, and would
reach the Earth on the tenth ; and if that same brazen anvil, in
continuing its course, were to fall from Earth to Tartarus, it
would again take nine days to fall, and would reach Tartarus
on the tenth. So the Latin poet Vergil, Aeneid, vi, 577-579,
has the same general idea.
W e see therefore in Greek and Latin m ystical thought the same
principle of Hierarchies and scales of nines and tens that we have
met with before. The theory calls for a continuous succession
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 149
of planes or spheres of being, ranging from higher to lower;
repeated uninterruptedly throughout the range of any general
hierarchical system of worlds. For instance here, beginning at
Tartarus, there follows a new Sub-Hierarchy, a new sphere, a
new Egg, of Being ; just as the Olympus of any one such system
is the nether pole of a still higher Hierarchy than itself. And so
on throughout the Universe.
Now this “ nine days’ falling ” of Hesiod’s “ brazen anvil ” ,
and any other similar figure, is simply the well known mythologic
way of speaking, rendering in an easily understood form for the
general public, with their sleeping minds, the esoteric doctrines,
the doctrines of Occultism, that is to say, the facts of Inner Being,
as those are found in all the mystical teachings of all the ancient
nations.
Now this subject of the Hells and Heavens, as was pointed out
in our last study, rests upon several fundamental esoteric factors
which we have been studying continuously since the Teacher
inaugurated these meetings last January. As said at our last
meeting, there are in very truth no " Hells ” and no “ Heavens ” ,
in the ordinary Christian sense, at all. But there are Spheres
of Retribution, Spheres of Probation, which are particular
spheres of being; and some of these hells, as described for in­
stance in the Brahmanical and in the Buddhist religions, are
actually spheres of near-pleasure, rather agreeable than other­
wise ; they are described as really very pleasant and interesting
places I But they are still lower than the heavens, so called.
We might consider the description of some of the so-called
Heavens, on the other hand, as not so exceedingly pleasant;
the idea being that just as are the conditions among men on
earth, so it is among appropriate spheres of retribution or pro­
bation or purgatorial cleansing: when the compass of man’s
life on earth has been brought to its end, everything then moves
according to strict analogy and according to strict gravitational
attraction. Nothing can go to any sphere or go into any state
for which it is unfit. Everything finds its exactly appropriate and
similar goal, or home, or sphere.
These heavens and hells are states, of course ; so is earth-life a
state. But if a thing is a state it is also the state of a thing;
and if it is a thing, it must have place, or position, or locality.
That is obvious. So, therefore, while these heavens and hells are
states, they are likewise localities, places. The Ancient Wisdom
speaks of them in general, refers to them in general, by the
Sanskrit word meaning “ The three worlds ”— Tri-bhuvana, i.e.,
meaning three briefly generalized abodes or mansions or dwelling-
places ; as Jesus says in the Christian scriptures: ‘‘ In my
Father’s house are many mansions As the Teacher has just
150 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
pointed out, they are states of mind for the entities who dwell
therein, and it is through these states of mind that the pur­
gatorial cleansing of the soul-nature is accomplished.
Why does a man go to hell ? Because he wants to go to hell.
Why does a man go to heaven ? Because he desires to go to
heaven. A man goes wherever he wills to go. If during his life he
has lived an evil existence, it is because the impulses and attrac­
tions of his being were such ; and can such a soul, inwrapped with
earthly attractions, ascend into spiritual spheres ? Can the
operations of spiritual beings, of the so-called higher “ laws of
nature ” , attract a man whose soul is absorbed in heavenly
aspirations into one of the lower and pain-racked spheres of
purgation ? Never. Think of the meaning involved in this
thought. We must therefore take warning therefrom, and live
in accordance therewith. Let us hearken to these doctrines,
sublime in their grandeur. Every word of them is pregnant with
profound meanings.
Now let us go a little farther. You may remember that some
months ago we pointed out that in the Ancient Wisdom, in the
ancient Occultism, there was a teaching which actually had
originated a modern scientific doctrine, born nevertheless in a
distorted form of materialism, regarding the operations of nature,
the so-called “ conservation of energy ” , which is one of the great
pillars of modern materialistic science; and also its twin dogma,
the so-called ” correlation of forces ” . Those two scientific
doctrines were born of the supposition that there is nothing in
existence but inert, lifeless, soulless matter, impelled by strange
and unknown and perhaps undiscoverable impulses, which were
called " forces ”, springing forth in some unknown and perhaps
undiscoverable way. Science is changing its viewpoints in many
directions, it is quite true, but yet some materialistic ideas still
remain. Now, in our time, everything is supposed to be funda­
mentally force ; matter itself is supposed to be force. The ideas,
as you readily see, still are the same; the words alone are changing.
It is, however, a step ahead, but we should not let ourselves be
carried away by mere words, providing the thought behind the
words is the same and as fully materialistic as ever.
But there are signs that other changes also are rapidly taking
place in scientific realms. Within three weeks, the present
speaker read the report of an address by an eminent English
physicist, an honor and credit to his country, intuitional in some
ways, who tells us what the latest discoveries are demonstrating
to the scientists of the time. What is this new light ? Just what
we pointed out some months ago as a fundamental teaching of
the ancient Occultism, that Force is simply Matter in an ethereal
state ; or, to put it in another and a truer way, Matter is simply
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 151
crystallized Force, so to say, Force and Matter being in essence
one. This scientist further tells us that modem thinkers are
now beginning to believe that Matter is not eternal. Of course,
we also believe that, provided that by “ Matter ” we mean merely
physical matter, the basic maya— or “ illusion ”— of physical
being. But if we mean by “ Matter ” the substratum, the
essential substance of being, we differ instantly, for indeed That
is eternal. It is Mula-prakriti, root-substance, the Garment of
Parabrahman.
Now again, what do we mean when we speak of Parabrahman
and Mula-prakriti, Essential Consciousness, and Essential Nature
— or Essential Substance or “ Matter ” ? We mean this : that
Parabrahman-Mulaprakriti can be for any human intellect
merely the absolute state of the Hierarchy, the highest portion,
its Flower, its Principle, its Root, its Seed— That from which the
rest evolves, or goes out and becomes the manifested universe we
live in and know and are a part of. As Paul says in the Christian
Gospels, “ In him [that is, in It— the Greek allows this transla­
tion] we live and move and have our being ” , i.e., we are It, in
other words ; that is, in the sense of being essentially a part of
the Flower of our Hierarchy, the highest to us, for It is the Root
of Consciousness of and in our Kosmical Universe or Universal
Kosmos, which latter is all that is comprehended within the
zone of the Milky Way, that is, the Universal Kosmos that we
know of. The Summit of it, is this Root from which all these
numberless inferior worlds or universes inside it have come
forth, have evolved forth; its children the solar systems, the
suns, the stars, the planets : all the living beings, all the atoms,
all the worlds or universes; in short, the Kosmos; all come
forth from It . It is the Summit, the Flower, the Acme, as also
the Seed ; it is the Absolute Paramatman, Supreme Self, which
you will remember we have studied before, as we have more or
less all the teachings that we are now passing briefly in review,
because this is, as the Teacher has told us this evening, the Iasi
of our present studies until her return from Europe.
Now what do we mean by the word “ Absolute ” ? Do we
mean " God ” ? If you like that word. If you really wish to
call it “ God ” . But do you know anything about ” God ” ?
Don’t we see that the instant in which we stultify our intellects,
cripple our intuition, limit the soaring of our interior faculties by
speaking of bounds, whether inferred in thought or word, then we
reach ends and halt ? Now, remember always in this connexion,
that beyond and beyond and beyond the Kosmical Universe,
beyond our ken, beyond our imagination, there is always endless
life, endless being, for there is no end anywhere ; and this thought
is what was meant in the ancient Occultism when its teachers
152 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
spoke of that "‘ circle whose circumference is nowhere and whose
center is everywhere ” , the " Boundless ” , the " Without Bounds ”.
This Latin word " Absolute ”, misused asit isin modernphilosophy
and even among our own selves, is the exact translation of the
Sanskrit M ukti, or Moksha, which I will allude to in a moment.
" Absolute ” is the modern English form of the past participle
passive of the Latin word absolvere, meaning “ to loosen ” , " to
set free ” , " to release ” , and hence " perfected Not utter,
limitless perfection like the immortal gods in some religions were
supposed to have, which is always impossible. But the relative
perfection, the Summit, the Acme, the Flower, the Root, the
Seed, of any Hierarchy; and particularly for us of that Hier­
archy which is for us the highest— our Kosmical Universe, of
which we have spoken.
Now the Sanskrit words M ukti or Moksha : the former comes
from the Sanskrit root much, meaning " to release ” , "to set
free ” , as said. Moksha from the Sanskrit Moksh, with an almost
identical meaning, and probably a desiderative of the same root
much. The meaning is that when a spirit, a monad, or a spiritual
radical, has so grown in manifestation that it has first become a
man, and is set free interiorly, inwardly, and from a man has
become a Planetary Spirit or Dhyán-Chohan, or Lord of Medita­
tion, and has gone still higher, to become interiorly a Brahman,
and from a Brahman the Parabrahman for its Hierarchy, then it
is absolutely perfected, free, released: perfected for that great
period of time which to us seems almost an eternity, so long is it,
virtually incomputable by the human intellect. Now this is the
“ Absolute ” ; limited in comparison with things still more
immense, still more sublime; but so far as we can think of it,
" released " or " freed ” from the chains or bonds of material
existence.
When the great period of the Universal Kosmic Pralaya
occurs, and the universe is indrawn (following the Oriental
metaphor) into the bosom of Parabrahman, what then happens ?
The spiritual entities then enter into their Para-Nirvana, which
means exactly for them what is meant for us when we speak of
the death of the human being. They are drawn by their spiritual
gravitational attractions into still higher Hierarchies of being,
into still higher spiritual realms, therein still higher rising and
growing and learning and living; while the lower elements of
the Kosmos, the body of the universe (even as does our physical
body when the change called death comes,— Death, the “ Twin
Sister of Life ” , to follow our Teacher’s beautiful metaphor, her
beautiful trope of speech), .follow their own particular gravita­
tional attractions : the physical body to dust; the vital breath
to the vital breath of the Kosmos; dust to dust, breath to
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 153
breath: so with the other Kosmic principles, as with man’s
principles at his decease : the kama of our nature to the universal
reservoir of the kamic organism; our manas into its Dhyan-
Chohanic rest; our monads into their own higher life. Then
when the clock of eternity points once again for the Kosmos to
the hour of “ coming forth into light ”— which is “ death ” for
the spiritual being, as death for us is life for the inner man— when
the Manvantara of material life comes around again (the period
of spiritual death for the Kosmos is the material life of manifesta­
tion) then in the distant abysms of space and time the Kosmic
Life-Centers are aroused into activity once more : first the stage
of the nebular fiery cloud; then the whirling nebula; then
the spiral nebula ; then the ringed nebula ; then the sun and the
planets, and finally the human and other beings that grow on the
last; each one of these planets having its seven Rounds to fulfil
in the forthcoming Planetary Periods, time after time, during
endless life. Endless hope and experience lie in this marvellous
scheme ; but always at every step on the Path there is a dividing
of the ways for those Entities which have attained moral respon­
sibility, an up and a down, for the " moment of choice ” is really
continuous.
At the present period (for our great Maha-manvantara we have
lived somewhat more than half of the maha-manvantaric cycle)
we are, for the Maha-manvantara of our Kosmical Solar System,
at the point where matter has already reached its ultimate degree
of development in our Hierarchy. We have lived, according to
the ancient numerical teaching, one hundred and fifty-five
trillion, five hundred and twenty odd billion solar years. One-half
of our Maha-manvantara is gone ; and there still remain nearly
one hundred and fifty-five trillion, five hundred and twenty
billion solar years. More accurately, we have slowly passed the
actual lowest point of the great Universal Kosmical Cycle. That
lowest point, where matter reached its greatest degree of physical
manifestation for us, for our great Wave of Life was when the
moon had reached the middle point of its Fourth Round, which
was ages and aeons before it became our physical satellite. The
ancient teachings are that as the great Parabrahman of our
hierarchical System has one hundred (Divine) Years of life to
live, each year having three hundred and sixty Days, and each
Year being divided into twelve months, and as Fifty Divine
Years have passed, therefore on this planet Terra, on this Earth,
we have attained to or reached the first (Divine) Day of the
first Divine Month of the ascending cycle of the second Period of
Fifty Divine Years. We have, then, come down the cycles for
the last one hundred fifty-five trillion’, five hundred twenty odd
billion years, cycling down, in and through our Hierarchy, to the
154 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
lowest point of it in the moon ; and have, since that point was
reached ages agone, slowly and painfully begun our climb upwards
again towards the Ineffable, the Summit of our hierarchical
System, our " Absolute Please remember very carefully that
we use this word “ Absolute” only in the sense and meaning
hereinbefore explained.
How did the “ Absolute ” become the " Absolute ” ? By
chance ? There is no “ chance There is nothing but endless
life and endless consciousness and endless duration, working
according to the Principles and Elements of inherent nature,
which is called Swabhava in our Sanskrit works. The root­
meaning of this word Swabhava is “ self-generation ” , " self­
becoming ” . We generate ourselves throughout all tim es: give
ourselves our own bodies ; climb our own ladders, step by step ;
seek our own hells and find our own heavens. And, the whole
purpose, the whole effort, of universal evolution, according to the
teaching of this Ancient Wisdom, is th is: raising personality
into Individuality ; substance into divinity ; matter into spirit;
grossness into purity.
Whence then came the “ Absolute ” , the “ supreme self ” , or
" spirit ” or Paramatman, of which we are sparks ? By growth
from within outwards ; and from without inwards. It was once
in incalculable aeons gone by, a Man. Think of the sublimity
involved in this teaching; consider the almost endless aeons of
the past; and that what in its far, far-away origin was a spark
of divinity, a spark of another and former “ Absolute ”, is now
our “ God ” , our Paramatman, our “ Supreme Self ” , of which
we are verily the children, and “ in which we move and live and
have our being ” . What is the main lesson that we may draw
from this ? What was the psychological mystery hinted at by
us in our last meeting, and to which allusion was then but slightly
made, because the Teacher had to close our evening’s study before
we had ended our theme ? It is this— and we touch but lightly
upon it here, because it belongs to a higher degree than this
present one. Our human souls are gods in embryo ; our human
souls were formerly animal souls ; our present animal souls will
in a future manvantara become human souls. Our human souls
in a future manvantara will become Monads. Man, if he make the
manvantaric race successfully, is destined to be the composite
Logos of a forthcoming Hierarchy ; as he now in fact is, in the
inferior Hierarchy of himself, the Logos of the quasi-infinitude
of less beings composing his personal nature. Reflect long over
this mystery, wonderful, sublime !
Are these teachings not thought-compelling and wonderful ?
No wonder we have held them secret and sacred in the Ancient
Wisdom. Why ? For many reasons. First, because they
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 155
could not be understood without the necessary spiritual and intel­
lectual training ; and yet it is remarkable, it is truly astonishing,
how often and how, in so many ways, we see allusions to them in
the ancient exoteric teachings of the various religions. Remember
that " exoteric ” , in the ancient religions, does not mean “ false
The word merely means those teachings for which the key has
not been openly given.
I have noticed and read in some of the translations from the
Welsh made for us by our own Theosophical Welsh scholar,
Professor Kenneth Morris, teachings that I believe to be taken
from the ancient Welsh books, which have caused me to gasp
in amazement, that these teachings of the Ancient Wisdom, so
sacred and occult, should have been so boldly put forth by the
ancient bards in open language. But I looked again, and I saw
how a Master-hand had worked, disguising and hiding while
openly teaching. The arrangement, the very beauty, of the
imagery used, misled the too inquiring and the too clever mind.
But for him who has the key, as we students have, it is easy to
follow. Likewise have I found the same method not only in the
wonderful Celtic teachings, but also in the teachings of ancient
Egypt, and of other countries.
The Teacher has told me that at a former meeting I touched too
slightly upon the “ much vexed question ” , as some people call
it, of good and evil. That is a subject which properly comes at the
close of the studies concerning “ Purgatory ” , “ Hells and
Heavens ” , which end this evening, and which we shall now
briefly treat of. Christian thinkers have found it impossible to
solve this problem satisfactorily to any thinking and reflective
mind. But though it is to them and others a “ much vexed
question ” , to a student of the Ancient Wisdom it is really very
simple. How can a Christian who believes that his God, that his
Creator of all that is, One who therefore must be likewise the
creator of evil— how can he reconcile this necessary conclusion
with his other teachings concerning his Deity, for instance that
God is all good, and from Him proceeds necessarily therefore
nothing but good ? Is evil then the work of the Devil ? What
child would not then ask, Whence then the Devil and the evil
proceeding from him ? From God ? But is God not all good ?
Hence the inevitable deduction that God is either not all-good
or not all-powerful. Evil would not be, could not be, by their
theory, unless a fruit of God’s wisdom, because if the case were
otherwise, it would exist without the divine permission, i.e.,
contrary to God’s will, which ex hypothesi is impossible, since
God is all-powerful. The logical difficulty under their theory is
complete and unanswerable by it.
Now what then really is the origin of what is called “ good ”
156 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
and “ evil ” ? The explanation lies in the teaching we have
spoken of more clearly this evening than previously. Good and
evil arise out of the conflicting action of the multimyriad wills in
manifestation. Good is relative ; there is no absolute good. E vil
is relative ; there is no absolute evil. If good were absolute, its op­
posite, its shadow, or nether pole evil, must also be absolute. Both,
however, are relative things. They offset and balance in Nature
the one the other, like all other “ pairs of opposites ” , such as
heat and cold, high and low, day and night, north and south, etc.
They arise, as just said, out of the conflict of wills, conscious and
unconscious. All the innumerable, multitudinous beings in mani­
festation, are, each one of them, more or less “ selfish ” , more or
less seeking its own, hungering and thirsting for sensation of
various kinds. Even spiritual evil exists; and there are high
agents of ‘‘ spiritual wickedness ” , of which the Christian Apostle
Paul has spoken, forming the opposite agencies to the high
agents of good. The latter ones, agents of spiritual wickedness,
are called by us the “ Brothers of the Shadow ” , and the others
are called by us the “ Brothers of the Light ” . The Brothers of
the Shadow work in and with matter, for material and selfish
purposes. The Brothers of the Light work in and with Nature
for spirit, for impersonal purposes. They contrast one with
another.
These two bodies represent two fundamental Paths in Nature,
the one the Right-Hand Path, the other the Left, and are so called
in the Ancient Occultism. The Sanskrit name for one, the “ Left-
Hand Path ” , is Pratyeka-Yana. Yana means “ Path ” or
" Road ” , and also ‘‘ Vehicle ” ; and we can translate Pratyeka
in this connexion by the paraphrase “ every one for himself ” .
Our first Teacher, H. P. Blavatsky, as you will well remember,
has spoken of the Pratyeka-Buddhas, high and in one sense holy
beings indeed, but craving spiritual wisdom, spiritual enlighten­
ment, for themselves alone, selfishly, in indifference to the sorrow
and pain of the world, yet so pure withal that they are actually
Buddhas of a kind.
The other body follow the Path which in Sanskrit is called
Am rita-Ydna, the Immortal Vehicle or Path of Immortality.
The one, the former, is the path of the personality ; the other,
the latter, is the path of the individuality; the one is the path
of matter ; the other is the path of spirit; the one leads down­
ward, the other Path loses itself in the ineffable glories of conscious
immortality in " eternity ” .
Now these are the two bodies of entities representing the two
sides of Nature, and the conflicts or oppositions of these two
sides of Nature, together with the battles of will with will, of the
hosts of beings in manifested existence, produce the so-called evil
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 157
in the world, arising out of the selfish activities of the inferior
or less developed or evolved entities. Selfishness, therefore, is the
root of all evil. The old teaching is true, and that is all there is
to it. On the highest planes of being, there is neither good nor
evil; there is neither life in our sense, nor death ; there is neither
beginning nor end of personal action of any kind. But there is
what is called in the wonderful ancient Brahmanical teachings,
Sat, Chit, Ananda; Sat meaning " pure being ” ; Chit, " pure
thought ” ; Ananda, “ bliss ” ; and this is the state of what one
may call the " Absolute ” .
In closing our study this evening, let us remember that the
Kosmic work of the Monad, the spiritual radical, is so important
that we refer to it again here. It itself can evolve only by raising
inferior souls and psychological vehicles into self-conscious
entities, which thus in turn themselves become Monads. T h is
IS THE GENERALIZED AND ENTIRE PLAN OF EVOLUTION ON ALL
p l a n e s . This is our Great Work. This is our high destiny. Our
Supreme Self, our Paramatman, our Supreme Monad, our Highest
Self, the Summit of our Hierarchy, is doing that work con­
sciously ; we as self-conscious humans are doing it in our smaller
way ; and this is the whole plan of manifested being, the general­
ized outline of kosmic evolution, as said just now. No man
can live unto himself alone ; no man can rise to spirit alone. It
is of the very essence of Nature, that he must, willy nilly, carry
with him, up or down, innumerable other entities and inferior
selves, along the upward or the downward path.
Now a few words more on a very important subject. The
Ancient Wisdom tells us that there are seven doctrinal Keys to
Wisdom and future Initiations. With the Teacher’s instruction
and permission, during the studies which we began last January,
of those seven Keys we have briefly alluded to five. What are
they ? These seven keys, the ancients called the Sapta-Ratndni,
the " Seven Jewels " or " Gems ” , or “ Treasures ” , and they are
as follows. First, that operation of Nature— using Nature in the
sense of the absolute, total aggregation of all that is : inside and
outside, backwards and forwards, up and down, right and left,
everything, everywhere— that is, that operation of Nature
which in Man manifests as Reimbodiment, or Reincarnation, and
which can be briefly expressed as the change of his vehicle or
body when his inner state or condition changes; for by the
operations of Nature he is finally called to gravitate towards, or
must go to, another state or condition and place. This is called
death, but it is another form of life. There is the first Key.
Apply it to our teachings in its many and various reaches.
The second Key is the doctrine of Action and Reaction, called
Karma. These first two Keys we have but briefly touched upon
M
158 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
in these preparatory studies. In future studies we shall find it
necessary to go into them more in detail.
The third Key is the doctrine of interpenetrating Beings or
Existences, otherwise called the doctrine of Hierarchies, which
are also inseparable and universally interpenetrating Planes or
Spheres. E v e r y t h i n g e x i s t s i n e v e r y t h i n g e l s e . There are,
in strict truth, no absolute divisions, anywhere, neither high nor
low, neither within nor without, neither right nor wrong, nor up
nor down. Fundamentally, there is naught but an eternal Is
and an eternal Now. As the ancient Stoics said so finely, Every­
thing interpenetrates everything else. The very atmosphere we
breathe, for instance, is vibrant and living with the multitudinous
Lives; they are in the air we breathe ; the monadic essences or
lives are in the air we breathe, in our bones, in our blood, in our
flesh, in everything. Think of it, then; let your thought go
free, release yourself inwardly. Let your imagination carry
you into the wonders that these Keys open up to our minds.
Conscientious study of the Ancient Wisdom and a pure and
unselfish life will be your unfailing guides.
The fourth Key is the doctrine of Swabhava, the doctrine of the
essential characteristic of any entity, of any spiritual radical;
the doctrine also of self-generation or self-becoming, in manifesta­
tion, thus affirming one’s responsibility in and for oneself. This is
the most abstruse, the most mystic, of the four Keys, hitherto
mentioned, for actually it is the Key to the other three Keys !
The fifth is the key to self-conscious Being and Existence, a
subject to which we have alluded this evening and also in our
last study ; for the entire aim, method, and operation of Universal
Being is the raising of the inferior to the Superior; and this
Great Work cannot ever be achieved by following the " Path
for Oneself ” , the Pralyeka-Ydna, but by following the Am rita-
Ydna, the Immortal Vehicle, or the Path of self-consciousness in
Immortality. Make your thought free, I repeat; let it go out
released!
As regards the other two Keys, I ought to say, perhaps, that
they belong to high degrees of Initiation. I know but very little
of the seventh. The Teacher has told me almost nothing ; and
my studies have taught me very little about it, so closely is it hid.
I know this, however, that understanding and use of this seventh
Key can be reached by very few men on this earth. As regards
the sixth Key, we are taught that it can be reached by great
effort in the higher degrees of Initiation, the lower degrees of
which we all have the opportunity of undergoing in the Teacher’s
presence.
This evening closes the last of our preparatory studies. We
shall go to higher themes in the future.
CHAPTER XVI
Atm a-v id y A : HOW the one becom es the m a n y . “ LOST souls ”
AND “ SOULLESS BEINGS MAN, A COMPOSITE BEING : NO
ABIDING PRINCIPLE IN MAN.
Thus, therefore, the doctrine of the Egyptians concerning principles, proceed­
ing from on high as far as to the last of things, begins from one principle and
descends to a multitude which is governed by this one ; and everywhere an
indefinite nature is under the dominion of a certain definite measure, and of the
supreme unical cause of all things.
Iamblichus, on The Mysteries, Section viii, 3. (Thomas Taylor.)
. . . But at the close of the minor cycle, after the completion of all the seven
Rounds, there awaits us no other mercy but the cup of good deeds, of merit,
outweighing that of evil deeds and demerit in the scales of Retributive Justice.
Bad, irretrievably bad must be that Ego that yields no mite from its fifth Prin­
ciple, and has to be annihilated, to disappear in the Eighth Sphere. A mite, as
I say, collected from the Personal Ego suffices to save him from the dreary Fate.
Not so after the completion of the great cycle : either a long Nirvana of Bliss
(unconscious though it be in the, and according to, your crude conceptions) ;
after which— life as a Dhydn-Chohan for a whole Manvantara, or else “ Avichi-
Nirvdna ” and a Manvantara of misery and horror as a—you must not hear
the word, nor I pronounce or write it. But “ those ” have nought to do with
the mortals who pass through the seven spheres. The collective Karma of a
future Planetary is as lovely as the collective Karma of a— is terrible.
Enough. I have said too much already.
The Mahatma Letters, p. 171.
W
E open our evening studies, taking them up to­
night at the point where we left them last summer,
by reading extracts from The Secret Doctrine, Vol. I,
pages 206-7-8.
There are four grades of initiation mentioned in exoteric works. . . .
Three further higher grades have to be conquered by the Arhan who
would reach the apex of the ladder of Arhatship. . . . The Arhats of
the " fire-mist ” of the 7th rung are but one remove from the Root-
Base of their Hierarchy— the highest on Earth, and our Terrestrial
chain. This " Root-Base " has a name which can only be translated
by several compound words into English— “ the ever-living-human-
Banyan." This “ Wondrous Being 0 descended from a “ high region/'
they say, in the early part of the Third Age, before the separation of
the sexes of the Third Race.
. . . It was not a Race, this progeny. It was at first a wondrous
Being, called the " Initiator," and after him a group of semi-divine
and semi-human beings. “ Set apart " in Archaic genesis for certain
purposes, they are those in whom are said to have incarnated the
highest Dhyfinis . . . to form the nursery for future human adepts,
on this earth and during the present cycle. These “ Sons of Will and
159
i6o FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Yoga ” bom, so to speak, in an immaculate way, remained, it is ex­
plained, entirely apart from the rest of mankind.
The “ B e in g ” just referred to, which has to remain nameless, is the
Tree from which, in subsequent ages, all the great historically known
Sages and Hierophants . . . have branched off. As objective man,
he is the mysterious (to the profane—the ever invisible) yet ever­
present Personage about whom legends are rife in the East, especially
among the Occultists and the students of the Sacred Science. It is he
who changes form, yet remains ever the same. And it is he again who
holds spiritual sway over the initiated Adepts throughout the whole
world. He is, as said, the “ Nameless One ” who has so many names,
and yet whose names and whose very nature are unknown. He is the
“ Initiator ” , called the “ G r e a t Sa c r if ic e For, sitting at the thres­
hold of L ig h t , he looks into it from within the circle of Darkness, which
he will not cross ; nor will he quit his post till the last day of this
life-cycle. Why does the solitary Watcher remain at his self-chosen
post ? Why does he sit by the fountain of primeval Wisdom, of which
he drinks no longer, as he has naught to learn which he does not
know—aye, neither on this Earth, nor in its heaven ? Because the
lonely, sore-footed pilgrims on their way back to their home are never
sure to the last moment of not losing their way in this limitless desert
of illusion and matter called Earth-Life. Because he would fain show
the way to that region of freedom and light, from which he is a volun­
tary exile himself, to every prisoner who has succeeded in liberating
himself from the bonds of flesh and illusion. Because, in short, he has
sacrificed himself for the sake of mankind, though but a few Elect
may profit by the G r e a t Sa c r if ic e .
We have here read one of the most sublime passages in this won­
derful book; and the beautiful words that we have heard read from
our Teacher's manuscript, lead up to them in a manner which is
appropriate and which opens the way for what we have to say
this evening.
It is hoped to comment upon and illustrate, if possible, the
matters spoken of in what we have just read from The Secret
Doctrine. We cannot do this altogether directly ; the subject is
too profound and no sufficient preparatory study has been made ;
but we can do so indirectly to some extent. It is necessary to do
so to some degree because this sublime subject is the seventh of
the seven Jewels (counting upwards) which, you will remember,
we spoke of in one of our late meetings. You will remember that
these seven Jewels or Gems or Treasures were given as follows,
counting from below upwards : The first or lowest is Rebirth,
or rather Reimbodiment, better still, perhaps, Regeneration.
In Sanskrit it is called Punarjanman; and in Greek it is called
Palingenesis; both words representing practically the same
thought: the first element in each word meaning “ again ” or
“ anew ", and the second element in each meaning “ generation ”
or “ birth ”— “ coming into being
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 161
The second Jewel, counting upwards, is the doctrine or fact in
Nature called Karman, the doctrine of “ Results The third
Jewel, counting again upwards, is the doctrine of “ Hierarchies ” ,
of which the Sanskrit term is Lokas. The fourth, again upwards,
is the doctrine of " Swabhava ” , which we have studied some­
what, as you will remember, in former meetings, this Sanskrit
word having two general philosophical meanings : first, self-
begetting, self-generation, self-becoming, the general idea being
that there is no merely mechanical or soulless activity of Nature
in bringing us into being for we brought ourselves forth, in and
through and by Nature, of which we are a part of the conscious
forces, and are our own children.
The second meaning is that each and every entity that exists is
the result o f what he actually is in his own higher nature ; he brings
forth that which he is in him self interiorly, nothing else. A par­
ticular Race, for instance, remains and is that Race as long as the
particular Race-swabhava remains in the racial Seed and mani­
fests thus ; and so forth. Likewise is the case the same with a
man, a tree, a star, a god— what n ot!
The fifth Jewel, counting still upwards, is the doctrine of
" Evolution ”, which we have already very briefly studied in the
Theosophical sense. This esoteric teaching is not the doctrine
of transformism, which is, properly speaking, the correct name
for the materialistic doctrine of Darwin, and of the Frenchman
Lamarck from whom, doubtless, he drew the idea; but the
theosophical idea of unfolding, or unwrapping ; a doctrine— with
its corollary, " Involution ”— expressed by two words, these
Sanskrit words being first, Pravritti, meaning the unfolding-forth
of the spirit-entity into matter, or of matter-lives into spirit-
entities, as the case may b e ; and the other word is Nirvritti,
meaning the infolding of spirit-entities into matter, or of matter-
lives into spirit-entities, as the case may be.
Now the sixth and the seventh Treasures, or Jewels, were
touched upon very slightly at one of our recent meetings. We
venture now to add a few more ideas to what was said before.
The sixth Jewel is the doctrine expressed here also by two com­
pound words of contrasted sense : first Am rita-Ydna, a Sanskrit
word meaning “ Immortality-vehicle ” , “ carriage ” or “ bearer ” ,
or rather “ Path ” , of Immortality, and referring to the individual
man; and the other word is Pratyeka-Yana, a Sanskrit word
meaning (in paraphrase) the " Path of each one for himself ” .
It is impossible to translate this latter compound word into
English by a single word. Both the idea and the vocable do not
exist in English. It may perhaps be approached by the Theosophic
idea latent in the word personality ; and the mysterious relation of
Individuality to personality is included in these two compound
162 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
“ catch-words ” or technical terms ; and therefrom hangs an
entire doctrine or department of thought of the wonderful
philosophy of Occultism, the Esoteric Doctrine. With it— as
also with the seventh Jewel— are connected closely the doctrines
of the Ancient Wisdom relating to the Monads of the various
classes : Whence they came, How they came, yes, and Why they
came.
We are touching upon all these profound subjects very lightly
at present, because they will all recur again and again in future
studies, and will in due course be more fully illustrated and
explained more clearly— as far as we may go in this Group.
Now, the last or the seventh Jewel, counting upwards, is called
Atma-Vidya, literally meaning the “ Knowledge of the Self ” ; this
compound is only a catchword as are the others ; but it imbodies
and hides a doctrine which is truly sublime. You will remember
that the present speaker, in connexion with this seventh Jewel,
stated that he knew little, or almost nothing, of it. This phrase
was badly chosen, and perhaps produced a misleading impression.
It was not the intention, if so, to give that impression. It
is well understood that any earnest and devoted student of this
Esoteric School can understand at least appropriate parts of this
mysterious doctrine— something at least— the degree of his
apprehension thereof depending upon his inner state of enlighten­
ment, his fidelity to his Teachers, his loyalty to the principles of
the Esoteric School, and his ability in understanding and pene­
trating somewhat into the depth of the teachings of this School.
But while this is the case with the students, each one according
to his capacity, others higher than we are can understand more
of i t ; naturally, the Teachers understand more of it than we do.
Probably, however, there are not ten men to-day on earth who
can understand this doctrine in its fullness. It is a Wonder­
teaching that even our Masters have probably not solved utterly.
The Masters of the Masters know more of it than the latter do,
i.e., the Chohans, as they are called— “ Chohans ” , a Tibetan word
meaning “ Lord ” , used in the sense of Preceptor, or Teacher.
But the main and essential meaning of this wondrous doctrine,
running all through it, is this, which is its keynote : How t h e
O n e b e c o m e s t h e M a n y : and this is the most difficult problem
that the human spirit has ever attempted to solve !
Take as an analogy, for instance, the Monad. To speak of the
Monad as “ descending ” into matter, is to speak wrongly, though
constantly this phrase is used, because it is a convenient method
of expression ; and if this fact is understood, it is probably per­
missible as a phrase. But actually, when we come to study the
facts, very soon we see and we know that the Monad does not
” descend ” into matter. Similarly, the One, though it is appro-
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 163
priate and convenient to speak of it as " becoming the Many ” ,
never becomes many, remains eternally itself, the Summit of the
Hierarchy, its Root-base, which is this Wondrous Being, the
Supreme Initiator, on whatever plane it may be placed. Yet
the Many flow forth from I t ; and It is their Supreme Self, their
Param£tman.
This, then, is the general theme of our discourse this evening ;
but because we have no time now to make a complete resume of
our studies during the course of last Spring and Winter, the
Teacher has permitted me this evening to go over very shortly
a few doctrines which were touched upon in former studies, for the
sake of brushing up our recollection of them. The first one that
we turn back to, then, is the doctrine of Swabhava, as contrasted
in meaning with the ideas involved in the kin-expression, Swa-
bhavat. This difference in meaning, which is very great, is not
generally understood, and the two words often have been sadly
confused by students. They are very different in meaning,
though both come from the same Sanskrit root Bhu : Swabhava ;
Swabhavat. Let me tell you here that the Sanskrit sound repre­
sented in English as “ a ” , is pronounced like the “ u ” in but or
tub; but when the “ a ” is written as “ a ” , with the circumflex
accent, it is pronounced ah, as in father. This difference of pro­
nunciation is very important.
Now Swabhava means what has before been explained, this
evening and also at former meetings. As just said, these two
words are both nouns derived from the same Sanskrit word BM,
meaning “ to become ”— not “ to b e" in the passive sense so
much, but “ to become ” , to “ grow into ” something, The quasi-
pronominal prefix Swa, means “ self” ; hence the noun means
“ self-becoming ” , “ self-generation ” , “ self-growing ” into some­
thing. Yet the essential or fundamental or integral Self, as said
before, does not do so. Like the monads, like the One, the Self
Fundamental sends down a Ray from itself, as the sun sends a
ray from itself into the darkness of matter ; and it is this spiritual
Ray which “ descends ” into matter; self-generating or self-
becoming a self-conscious entity in its turn ; the solar light, the
sun itself, remaining ever in its own integrity or ens, never
descending, never commingling integrally as an entity, with the
multitudinous hosts of matter-lives, its own children !
Now, Swabhavat is called by H. P. Blavatsky, “ Father-
Mother It is a state or condition of Kosmic consciousness-
substance, where spirit and matter, which you know are funda­
mentally one, no longer are dual as in manifestation, but one:
that which is neither manifested matter, nor manifested spirit,
alone, but both are the primeval Unity ; spiritual Aka6a ; where
matter merges into spirit, and both now being really one, are called
164 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
“ Father-Mother ” , the spiritualization, so to say, of spirit-
substance. See how we have to hunt for adequately expressive
words in our wretchedly imperfect European languages! The
Sanskrit word expresses the idea, if you understand it, instantly.
These two nouns, then, as you see, are from the same root, and
the two words are closely connected in origin, but they are not
the same in meaning at all. Swabhdva is the self-generation of
anything, of any entity, of any monad. Swabhavat is the Father-
Mother, the kalpic akfiSic Spirit-Substance, never descending
from its own state or condition, or from its own plane, but the
quasi-infinite reservoir o f being, of consciousness, of light, of life,
and the source of what science, in our day, so ridiculously calls
the “ Forces ” of Nature Universal.
These deeply mystical and very profound themes we shall have
to go into more fully in the future; but for the present it will
suffice to remember that Swabhavat is Kosmical Spirit-Substance,
the Reservoir of Being and of Beings. The northern Buddhists
call it Swabhavat, more mystically Adi-Buddhi— “ Primeval
Buddhi ” ; the Brahmanical scriptures call it “ Aka£a ” ; and
the Hebrew Old Testament refers to it as the Kosmic
" Waters ” .
Now the next subject which needed a little illustration, was the
very solemn question of “ lost souls ” , as contrasted with “ soul­
less ” beings. It may be well to say that these three or four
subjects are briefly again touched upon this evening because it
has come to attention that these matters have been mistaken
by some of our hearers. There is an immense difference between
“ lost souls ” and ” soulless ” beings. A ” lost soul ” is one in
whom the “ golden thread ” uniting the lower thinking entity
with its Higher Self is completely ruptured, broken off from its
higher essence or root, its true Self. The case here is hopeless,
virtually ; there can be no more union for that lower self, which,
at the moment of final rupture, commences sinking immediately
into the “ Eighth Sphere ” , the so-called “ Planet of Death ” .
A " soulless ” being, a ” soulless ” man, is one in whom the
thread has been worn, so to speak, very thin ; or, rather, where
the spiritual and impersonal aspirations in this life and in other
lives have been so few, the attempts to unite with the higher
part of the self have been so weak, that slowly the spiritual ray
has been withdrawing itself from the lower part; but it is not
yet ruptured completely. It still remains; and even one single
holy and impersonal aspiration may cause reunion. It is not a
" lost soul ” ; but so far as the human entity is practically con­
cerned, it is properly called a “ soulless ” being, for the entity
lives almost wholly in his lower principles. " Soulless ” beings
furnish those cases which are popularly spoken of among men as
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 165
“ men and women without conscience ” . They seem to have no
moral sense, although their mental and psychical faculties may
still be strong and keen.
These are the worst cases of “ soulless ” human beings. Other
cases are those of men and women who merely do not seem to
care for anything that is good and beautiful and true, noble and
high and lo fty; their desires are of the earth, earthly; their
passions are strong and their intuitions are weak. These cases
are very common indeed ; so much so that our first great Teacher,
H. P. Blavatsky, says in her Isis Unveiled that we " shoulder
soulless men ” every day of our lives. Look into the faces of the
men and the women whom you see on the streets. Remember
that our present Teacher has been telling us for years about the
men and women whom she sees or has met and talked with in
her functions as Teacher and philanthropist. Go to town ; go
anywhere ; go into the streets of a great city. Look even into the
eyes of those of your own fireside, perhaps; I do not allude,
necessarily, to any one here ; but I am speaking generally. The
situation actually is a terrible one. There is a full possibility that
a weak-souled human being, perhaps beginning merely in giving
way to the lusts of the will, and to the passions of the mind, and
to the instincts of the lower nature, may, little by little, but
inevitably and surely, starve out, or wear away by attrition, all
the attachments of the higher Ray which bind it into the lower
nature, and which, if they were fully strong and active, would
make the man (or woman) a walking god among u s; verily, a
god in the flesh. Instead of this, in the worst cases of the
" soulless ” being, you would have before you little more than a
human shell (alive, but spiritually almost dead) in the man or the
woman, as the case may be. A “ soulless ” being was once an
ensouled man or woman ; who, before the former state, had the
same chance successfully to run the race that we all have. This is
indeed a solemn verity, and one which our first Teacher has told
us should be taught and reiterated in our teaching, because it is
truly helpful as a warning. Not one of us is absolutely safe at this
midway stage of our evolutionary journey; for not one of us
knows what he is capable of, either for good or ill. I have
listened to our Teacher speaking, hinting at these truths, and I
have read her words in print and in manuscript, and I have
wondered sometimes how many have caught the thought— her
warning.
There is the truth ; and it is no trifling matter. Is there any
reason for wonder that all our teachers have told us repeatedly
that every teaching that is given in our School is founded upon
what men commonly call " ethical principles of conduct ”, and
must be studied in that light ? It is the only thing that, put into
166 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
sincere practice, will save us surely; for these principles come
first and in the middle and at the end of our studies.
Now, in future studies we shall have to trace to the end the
destiny of these two classes of beings ; but it may be well to say
a few words now of the fate of the “ lost soul There are two
general classes of these : the lower, but not the worse ; and the
higher, the worse. In order to make the meaning of this very
difficult subject more clear, I shall have to go into a new but
collateral thought, which is the key. Man is a Composite
B e in g . On this fact of human nature reposes a most wonderful
truth which is at the foundation of the marvellous psychological
doctrines of the Lord Gautama-Buddha. It is as follows, a
corollary of the immediately preceding statement. There is no
abiding principle whatsoever in “ man ” . Fix this like steel into
the core of your minds. It will save you from myriad dangers
i f rightly understood. “ Man ” is not his higher nature ; " man ”
is that which is called the “ human nature ” . Do you realize how
greatly men and women live in what the Hebrews call the Nefesh,
i.e., live in their astral souls ? We do so realize it, as students of
this School, probably every one of us. To a certain extent such
unison with our lower principles is necessary ; but to follow the
beautiful old simile of the ancient philosophers, the astral soul
should be our vehicle, our “ bearer ” ; so to say it should be
made a “ horse ” to carry us on our journey ; or, to change the
figure, a chariot in which we should rid e; a “ horse ” which we
must drive. We, the inner Self, should govern and drive our
astral steed ; but should never allow it to control us.
In order to make this more clear, examine the diagram opposite.
You will notice that man’s seven Principles and Elements
are divided into three separate parts : a lowest triad, purely
mortal and perishable ; an intermediate duad, psychical, com­
posite, and mostly mortal: Kama-manas, the “ man” proper, or
“ human nature ” ; and a Higher Duad, Atma-buddhi; immortal,
imperishable ; the Monad. At the death of the human being, this
Higher Duad carries away with it all the spiritual essence, the
aroma, of the lower or intermediate duad ; and then the Higher
Duad is the Higher Self, the Reincarnating Individuality, or
Egoic Monad. Man’s ordinary consciousness in life at this stage
of evolution is almost wholly in the lower or intermediate duad ;
when he raises his consciousness to become one with the Higher
Duad, he becomes a Mahatman, a Master.
Now this lower part of the nature is composite. There is
nothing permanent per se in it whatever; as an entity, nothing
abides. It is ordinary “ man ’’ as he is to-day, and in him there
is no abiding self-principle whatsoever. If you fasten your
thoughts and your affections to the things of the lower nature,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 167
you will de facto, of necessity, follow it, and become it, as outlined
and shown in and by the doctrine of Swabhava. A s a man thinks,
so is h e ! Now the Hebrew words in this old saying, which is
taken from Proverbs, Chapter 23, verse 7, are Englished : “ As he
thinketh in his heart (Nefesh), so is he ” , but the Hebrew word
nefesh used here really means “ As he thinks in his lower nature,
that he is {becomes) A Sanskrit commentator, Yaska (Nirukta,
x, 17), in his glossary on a certain Vedic text, has the following
remark, exactly to the point on the same subject: Yad yad
A tman
B uddhi
Higher Duad. Monad
per se.
Immortal. Divine Soul
when united with the
“ aroma ” from lower
duad.
z
<
s
<
a Lower or Intermediate
Duad. “ Man ” or
- “ human being ” . Con­
ditionally immortal.
Astral soul.
Lowest
M ortal
“ soul ” .
triad. Body.
P h ysical
rdpam k&mayate devatd, tat tad devatd bhavati, that is : Whatever
body {or form, or shape) a divine being {divinity) longs for (that is,
wants, desires, i.e., gives him self up to), that very thing the divine
being becomes. Here is the secret of the whole thing. We are
what we make ourselves, our own children. Nothing but that.
And, if our thoughts are upwards, we come finally into the com­
panionship of the divinities; and, before reaching them, come
into the companionship of the Holy Teachers, because we make
ourselves such, we become like them ; and they, in turn, answer
the call.
But if, on the contrary, our thoughts are running downwards,
168 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
and we wear away the " silver thread ” or the “ golden thread ”
which binds us to our Higher Nature, we then naturally gravitate
or go downwards: down, down, down; until at last the final
rupture of the Golden Chain or Thread comes, and the soul
becomes the “ lost soul ” , a lost astral soul; and its destiny is as
follows. There are two classes of this kind of soul, as remarked
before. The first class is the lower but not the worse ; the first
class, then, consists of those human beings on this planet (or on
any other planet which possesses a humanity similar to ours)
who through native weaknesses of soul and from lack of spiritual
attraction upwards, go to pieces after a certain interval of time,
long or short as the case may he: the lower part of the nature
being composite and impermanent and non-enduring, following
" natural laws ” finally simply breaks up and vanishes much as
the human body dies and decays. That is the end of i t ; it is
finally annihilated.
The monad of such a soul, meanwhile, there being nothing, no
“ aroma ” of aspiration or yearning upwards, to take away from
that life or from those lives— because, mind you, it is perfectly
true that “ lost souls ” as well as soul-beings can reincarnate.
They can indeed. There are children born “ lost souls ” ; as a
fact it is very rare, perhaps; but the fact can and does take
place— the Monad, I say, of such a " lost soul ” , in due course of
time " reincarnates ” again ; and the " lost soul ” episode is like
a blank page in its “ book of Lives ” .
Now the second class, and the worse by far, are those in which
the soul is vitally strong. They are those who are spiritually
evil, paradoxical as it may sound; those which the Christian
teachers have spoken of in the New Testament as beings of
spiritual wickedness and iniquity. One may wonder how it can
come to pass that a being which has ruptured the Golden Thread
can still have spiritual qualities or parts. That is one of the dark
and solemn mysteries which we may have to go into in more detail
later.. We have no time this evening to do so, beyond pointing
out that the explanation lies in an understanding of esoteric
psychology, and of the nature of high astral matter. But let me
point out this: if a soul can receive an impress, can receive an
impulse, and it most certainly does, that impress or impulse will
carry it on until its initial strength is exhausted, until the impulse
no longer exists, until the impulse has worked itself out. Now,
through many, many, lives of spiritual evil-doing, these beings
who have eventuated as “ lost souls ” have built up through the
intensity of their will a bank account, so to speak, of certain
forces of nature, impulses of evil, of pure matter, running hot
and strong. And when I say ‘‘ hot ” I do not mean in the ordinary
emotional sense, as when one speaks of the " heat of passion ” .
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 169
All such passion is dead. Nay. But running hot like the fires of
hell: revenge, hatred, and antagonism to anything that is highly
good or nobly beautiful, and all such things. These impulses here
exist, and they have a spiritual source, for they are degraded
spiritual energies, spirit fallen and crystallized into matter, so to
speak. Very difficult to explain, indeed, is this abstruse subject;
but this is the gist of it. Lastly, I might add that these beings
can (and do), under certain conditions, go far lower: they enter
the Lower Path, and go still farther down: and if the evil be
strong enough in certain rare cases, their terrible destiny is what
our Teachers have called an avicki-nirvdna (avichi being a
generalized term for what is popularly called “ hell ”), aeons of
unspeakable misery, self-imposed, until final dissolution ensues,—
and Nature knows them no more.
Of course you remember that we have studied the subject of
Hells and Heavens before, but as yet we have had no time to go
into this matter at length. Avichi is a generalized term for places
of evil realizations, but not of “ punishment ” in the Christian
sense; where the will for evil, and the unsatisfied evil longings
for pure selfishness, find their chance for expansion— and final
extinction of the entity itself. Avichi has many degrees, or
grades. Nature has all things in her ; if she has Heavens where
good men and true men find rest and peace and bliss, so has she
other spheres and states, where go or gravitate those who must
find an outlet for the evil passions burning within. They, at the
end of their avichi-nirvana, go to pieces and are ground over and
over, and vanish away finally like a shadow before the sunlight in
the air— ground over in Nature’s laboratory.
Now, you remember that we spoke in other studies of the
so-called “ laws of Nature ” , and it was pointed out that in our
esoteric teachings there are no “ laws of Nature ” , and this for
two reasons : first, because there is no such thing as " Nature
Nature is not an entity; it is an abstraction. Nature is not a
goddess or a god ; it is not a being or a planet; it is not a sphere
or a universe. Nature is the abstract aggregate, so to speak, the
immense aggregate, of all beings and things, interblending and
acting and interacting upon each other: spiritual, inter­
mediate, and lower ; and their interblending and interconnexion
produce what we call " Nature ” . The beings here referred to, of
course, are of all grades, fromthe most material, the most degraded,
up to the highest, of any Hierarchy. And the second reason is
that these aggregated beings that we call very conveniently by
the term of Nature, are not " ruled ” by " law ” . Who or what
makes any laws that Nature shall or must follow or does follow ?
No one, neither devil nor god. But the query may and ought to
arise: Does not Nature follow certain courses, and when the
170 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
circumstances arid conditions are identical, are not those courses
always the same, which are what we call laws ? Of course, yes ;
nobody denies a fact. We deny the explanation. Explanations
are important. If a man comes to you and says something to you
and you find that he is merely talking, giving you words when
you want the bread of life, are you going to take what he says
for truth ? Are you going to take the words only, and be satisfied
with husks ? Or are you going to think, and sa y: “ My dear
Sir, I have looked into what you tell me ; what you say is merely
words ; nobody denies the facts that are ; but I want an explana­
tion of those words and of those facts. I want something that
will feed my soul ” . Do you get any food for your soul when you
hear mere talk about mechanical, incomprehensible “ laws of
Nature ” ? Do you realize that no great thinker in antiquity at
any time ever used such empty language as “ laws of Nature ’’with
the concomitant ideas— or lack of ideas ? Never. The expression
containing the notion “ laws of Nature ” is a modern product
derived from two sources : first from the Christian religion ; and
second from modern scientific materialism. Men, during all the
ages, have been fully aware that " Nature ’’ pursued certain very
regular courses, modernly called “ laws ” , and always followed the
same courses ; but our forebears had other and wiser explanations
of these regular courses in natural phenomena, for they knew
more of the inner mysteries of being, because they had true
Religion behind and within themselves; they had a universal
philosophy; and last but not least they had what were called
Initiates, who personally could go behind and into Nature, enter
into her and know her at first hand.
Now what causes Nature to act as she does ? The modern
scientist will tell you that he means by the “ laws of Nature ”
those sequences of events which always happen in the same way
when the circumstances and conditions are the same; the
regular order of phenomena and forces. The Christian theologian
tells you what he means by the “ laws of Nature ” probably
somewhat as follows: “ Well, brother, it is probably the Will
of God Almighty, who, it is true, has not vouchsafed to us a full
explanation of these difficult problems ; but it is fundamentally
the Divine Will which has once and for all time created the machine
of Nature and has set it in running ” . About two or three or four
or five or six hundred years ago these gentlemen had another
explanation, somewhat different from the above, because modem
science had not yet begun to be aggressively vocal with views
or a view of its own; and this other theological explanation was
that it was God Almighty Himself who personally and actively
guided and ordered these things which " Nature ” produces.
“ He sent his rain upon the iust and the uniust: he caused the
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 171
sun to shine, and the rain to fall ” , and much more to the same
tome. But then came along certain sceptical thinkers and they
said, “ Ha, ha, God the Creator ! Then He created diseases ; He
creates the evils in men’s hearts. It must be so, not otherwise,
because He created man and all things else, and, being all-wise,
He must have known what He was doing. Therefore, why
punish a man for doing what he cannot avoid doing, because God
created man and his mind and his heart and his will ? ”
So the theologians’ later idea, apparently, was that God manu­
factured the world with His own Almighty Hand, and set it to
spinning, and set the various elements thereof each to running
in its own way, and let it go forth with a primal impress of the
Divine Intelligence upon it.
I think that I am quoting correctly the early modern theo­
logical idea.
Now the Initiates, knowing Nature’s arcana, had words fitted
to express exactly what they desired to sa y; words which are
impressive and which are not mere abstractions ; although when
convenient they too used abstractions; they used such words
as " Principles ” and ” Elements ” of Nature. It is quite true
that such words are catchwords, technical words; but they
knew precisely what they meant by them. They also spoke
mystically and theologically of the “ gods It is one of the most
lamentable things for scholars to-day, that owing to the deliberate
and wilful suppression by the Christian Church of so many of the
truths of antiquity, the average scholar or student has no more
idea of what the ancients meant by the " gods ” and their actions,
than he has of what is taking place at this moment on the star
Sirius. Yet, when understood and properly explained, Poly­
theism is seen to be a wonderful and a sublime teaching. It
does not mean, for instance, that each god is as great and as single
as, or omnipotent and omniscient like, the Christian theological
notion of their God. Not at all. The gods, i.e., spiritual entities,
are the higher inhabitants of Nature. They are an intrinsic part
of Nature itself, for they are its informing Principles; they are
as much subject to the wills of still higher Beings— call these
wills the “ laws ” of higher beings, if you will— as we are, and as
are the animals below us. We are gods to the beings composing
our bodies. The atoms in our body are, in their way, conscious,
and we are like gods to them. And what they might call the
" laws of Nature ” are what we think and what we will. Nature is
conscious from beginning to end, in varying degrees; although
in reality there is no “ beginning ” and no “ end ” , which are
vain dreams.
Furthermore, Nature has two aspects, a positive aspect and a
negative aspect. Please understand that I am using the word
172 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
" Nature ” , with the meaning pointed out before, because the
ordinary expression is convenient, the term is understood ; if a
speaker has to spend some three minutes or more in order to
explain each time anew an already explained use of a word, he
will never arrive at the end of what he wishes to say ; so, once
having made an explanation of what we mean by “ Nature ” and
" laws ” , we may use these or other common words because they
are convenient. Our Teachers also have used these words con­
stantly ; and H. P. Blavatsky constantly speaks of the " laws
of Nature ” , and the “ fundamental law of Karma ” ; so again
does our present Teacher, Katherine Tingley, constantly speak
of the " Higher Law Who has not heard highly educated
people say that the sun “ rises in the east ” ? Of course they
and we know that the sun does not “ rise in the east Men very
frequently find it useful and convenient to use ordinary language
in order intelligently to voice a thought. But this does not mean
that they should be held to rigid literal account for what every
sane man should know perfectly well is merely a convenient mode
of expression. The so-called “ laws of Nature ” , therefore, are
the action and interaction and interplay o f consciousnesses and
wills— in the Kosmos— not so much considered as personalized
consciousnesses and wills, but by us those words are used more
as abstractions, meaning the combined and aggregate action-
results of all consciousnesses and wills in the Kosmos. Yet
actually, when traced to causes, to their sources, these “ laws ” are
the consciousnesses and wills in action of the multimyriad hosts
of beings that compose and are “ Nature ” itself, working through,
in, and by, “ matter ” , their vehicles— abstractly called “ Nature
“ Nature ” has these two poles or sides : the positive pole or side
and the negative pole or side. Examine yourself closely, and you
will find that even your mind is dual, like everything else, for it
mirrors Nature. It has its passive side, its “ unconscious re­
flexes ”, just as the body has, just as Nature has. It has also its
positive or active side. There is a great difference between the
conscious will and the unconscious will. Take the body as an
instance of what I am trying to sa y; e.g., the beating of the
heart, the automatic winking of the eyes, the processes of
digestion. These are unconsciously performed acts, under the
control of unconscious or semi-conscious elemental entities; when
normally functioning, man’s will has nothing self-consciously to
do with them. They represent the passive side of his will as
expressed through those elemental minds. But he also has an
active or positive side in which he wills and thinks, and acts
accordingly, and for these latter things he is held responsible, he
incurs karmic responsibility.
So is it exactly the same, in Nature; as is illustrated by this
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 173
example of the passive and active wills in man’s own mind and
body. The " laws of physical nature ” are the action-results of
the passive side of the beings and consciousnesses who and which
compose what is called " Nature ” ; and the higher those beings
are, the less is their active or positive side manifest on the lower
planes.
Work therefore with Nature, and not against her; violate none
of her laws, if you desire health and happiness. Remember what
H. P. Blavatsky says in The Voice of the Silence : Let us para­
phrase i t : Work with nature and follow her; become one with
her, and she will make obeisance unto you as an active, self-
conscious Co-worker— a Master. Happiness can be found only
in obedience to this fundamental truth of inseparable unity.
There is no happiness in unbrotherhood, in acting solely for your­
self, in trying to impose your personal will on others. It is by
giving, that life is found in all its beauty, by giving the self to the
A l l . There is no happiness like i t ; there is no way for inner
development to come so quickly and so surely and so safely to
the student as that which lies in giving up the personal self
to nobly impersonal aims. It is the Way to Peace and Power.
The Teacher whispers to me to continue for a few moments
longer— and we have as yet not even begun our evening’s study 1
Let us, then, occupy the few more minutes of time that the
Teacher has given us, in referring to an interesting phenomenon
of Nature that took place during this last summer. I refer to the
near approach of the planet Mars to Earth ; and I speak of this
with intent, because it is going to illustrate a point in the substance
of our theme.
You will doubtless have heard how our scientists have concluded
— they say that their theory is true, but it is absolutely false
according to Theosophy— that the planet Mars is older than the
Earth ; and the sole reason for their saying this is because when
they examine what they can see of the surface of Mars through
their telescopes, they see no sign, certain and convincing to all, of
even vegetable life. Apparently, they see no particular organic
activity of any kind on that ruddy sphere; and they at once
jump to the conclusion, like a lot of thoughtless fellows, that
Mars is dead, in a state something like that of the moon, and that
therefore it is very much older than our planet Earth. Now, in
the first place, to the student of the Ancient Wisdom, the “ age ”
of a planet may be of two kinds. Does it mean older in spiritual
experience— because, remember, a planet is an “ animal " in the
Greco-Latin sense, and “ animal ” means “ living being ” , for it
is a hierarchy of lives— or does it merely mean that the physical
sphere is older than ours ?
Now the teaching of the Ancient Wisdom is that Mars is
174 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
younger than the Earth. Its body, its physical sphere, is younger ;
but, at the present time, it is in a state of “ obscuration ” . It is
what we m ay call asleep ; it is more than merely asleep, actually,
for the vastly larger part of its hosts of lives, of its living entities,
have left it in order to go to higher spheres or globes of the
Martian Planetary Chain. But this again does not mean— one has
to be very careful in the use of expressions in our studies— that
there is no life on Mars. When our own physical body is asleep,
does it mean that it is in decay, that it is dead ? Are there no
vital processes going on in the sleeping human body ? Of course
there are, many : recuperation ; reinforcing of the bonds of the
inner nature. Not of the inner nature its e lf; but there is the
strengthening of the bonds connecting the vital astral entity
with it.
Now there are— and this will illustrate another point— there are
on the planet Mars in its present state of obscuration certain
beings left there by the receding Life-W ave of Mars when that
planet went into obscuration ; and these beings are called in the
Sanskrit language &
ishtas, meaning “ remainders ” , or ” remains ” ,
i.e., those whose duty it is to keep the Seeds of Life on that planet
until the incoming flow of the returning Life-W ave in the new
Manvantara to come, shall find these bodies ready for them and
in all ways appropriate. Now these ¿ishtas are of seven kinds :
three elem ental; the m ineral; the ” plant ” ; the “ beast ” -
type there, which represented the human on Mars ; and one
other. There are certain ones of these sishtas which are not at
all of the lower types ; they must have been higher than the
average of its humanity when that planet went into obscuration,
in order to provide for the more evolved humanity coming down
on its succeeding Round, fit and appropriate vehicles for the new
Life-Cycle, or Manvantara, there. Generally, then, the ¿ishtas
are those superior classes— each of its own kind and kingdom—
left behind on a planet when it goes into obscuration, in order to
serve as the seeds of life for the inflow of the next incoming
Life-W ave when the dawn of the new manvantara takes place on
that planet.
Venus, on the contrary, is now actively engaged in its last
Round. The planet Mercury, on the other hand, is just beginning
its last Round. Both these planets are far older than the Earth.
Mars is younger— I am not here talking of the spiritual age ; I
am talking only of the age of the physical body, the sphere. You
w ill find it generally the ” law ” — and I am using this term
” law ” , remember, because it is convenient— you will find it,
generally speaking, a physical fact of Nature in our Solar System
that the farther a sphere (or planet) is from the sun, the physically
younger it is. Mars, as a matter of fact, has ended its Third
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 175
R ou nd. W e o f the E arth are in our F o u r th ; V enus is in its
Seventh and la s t ; and M ercury is just beginning its Seventh.
I have brought up this m atter, because there are som e w ho
have m isunderstood H . P. B la va tsk y’s teaching in T h e S ecr et
D o c tr in e regarding the six com panion-globes o f the Planetary
Earth-Chain, saying that w e cam e to E arth from the planet Mars
w hich is thus m ade one o f the globes o f the Planetary E arth-
Chain ; that we are now on E arth ; and that we shall in the
future (next) m anvantara go to M ercury, w hich is also m ade one
o f the P lanetary Earth-Chain.
This is u tterly w rong. N ow , as we have just said, M ercury is
in its S e v e n th R ou n d ; w e are in our F o u r t h , and our next round
w ill be our F ifth. It is true that Mars has ended its third R ou n d ;
but w hile the planets farther from the sun generally are the
younger, physically, than those nearer it, this does n o t m e a n tha t
they are n ece ssa r ily the y o u n g e r s p ir itu a lly . F or instance, you
m ay take the planet Saturn. The planet Saturn, spiritually, is
farther advanced than is the planet Mars, or than is our planet
Terra.
If you take up a b ook o f astron om y and com pare the varyin g
density o f the planets as there given in the tables, you w ill have
a rough-and-ready, and very generally accurate, rule b y w hich
to go in order to find out w hich of the physical planets are
p h y s ic a lly older than others. B ut then this does not refer to
spiritual age or evolu tion ; and this fact shows the com plexity
that confronts the student in his stu dy of these doctrines, w hich
really are very sim ple, bu t seem com plex to us because our m inds
are m atter-m inds and n ot spirit-m inds. It is difficult to think
abou t such things w ith the m inds w e have, because th ey are
m atter-built. T h ey go to pieces at our death ; and these subjects
are based on spiritual facts. H ence the confusion under w hich
Mr. Sinnett, and others w ho follow ed his lead, have labored —
even to the extent o f denying their ow n teachers !
The planet Saturn is surrounded w ith belts and— I am in very
deep w ater here and 1 wish to speak slow ly so as not to give a
m istaken im pression. I did at the last m eeting, w hen I said that
the present speaker knew little or nothing of the Seventh " J e w e l/1
It w as n ot m y intent to give that idea. M y intent was to say that
he knew little or nothing o f the h ig h er tea ch in g s regarding that
Seventh " Jew el ” — the planet Saturn is the last, counting ou t­
w ards from the sun, o f the " Seven Sacred Planets ” o f the
ancients. A s regards our Solar System , Uranus and N eptune,
certainly n ot th e latter, really d o n ot belong to it. A ctually,
physically, th ey do, because th ey are under that system 's influence,
somewhat like visitors entertained in a hom e ; but they do not
belong to or form a part o f the septenary o f the " seven sacred
176 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
planets ” of antiquity of which you all doubtless have read. Those
" seven sacred planets ” provisionally may be named as follows :
Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, Mercury, and Moon. I say
above " provisionally,” because there is much more behind this
matter of the “ Seven Sacred Planets ” than appears openly. For
instance, the sun and the moon are reckoned in the above list as
two substitutes for the two real planets ; and Mars— to a certain
extent— is in the same category. We can say no more of
this here.
Now shall we say that the sun and moon represent two other
planets ? Let us take provisionally the list as usually given,
including the sun and the moon ; each one of these seven globes
is a body like our own earth in that each is a septenary Chain,
sevenfold in composition: six other superior globes of finer
matter above the physical sphere or globe ; just as we humans
have our six principles above this “ bearer ” or “ carrier ”
miscalled a “ principle,” which we call our body. This does not
apply in toto to the moon, because the moon is dead; yet even
the moon has its six companion-globes. The mysteries concerning
the moon, I may remark in passing, are more than interesting,
and if the Teacher permits it, we shall sometime go into them as
far as we can properly do so ; but excepting the moons, all the
other globes and planets of the Solar System have, each one, six
companion-globes of finer matter, all fully alive; unless in
" obscuration ” ; and in the planetary life these form a peculiar
analogy with man's seven principles ; for if we could see our own
principles, could see what the plan of each principle is, we should
find that it is an actual rupa or form. Yet let me here enter a
caveat: the six companion-globes of any planet or other sidereal
body are not, really, the six principles of such a body, for each
one of these seven globes forming part of a Chain, has its own
individual seven principles and elements. So each planet or
sidereal body has its six companion-globes, forming together a
Planetary Chain; and only those globes which are on the same
Kosmic Plane of nature or being, are physically visible to each
other. For instance, we can see only the fourth (planetary) plane
globes of each of the other Planetary or Sidereal Chains, because
we are on the fourth planetary Plane, as they are. If we were
on the Kosmic Plane above us, we should see two Jupiters, two
Saturns, and so forth.
The sun also is septenary, as said just now. A wonderful
teaching lies here in that connexion. The moon, dead as it is,
has also six companion-globes ; and when we leave this earth in
“ obscuration ” at the close of this earth-Round, and go to the
globe above this, we shall see then the two lunar bodies belonging
to that plane, and also two suns.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 177
We now close our evening’s study ; and express the hope that
at the next meeting which the Teacher may call, we shall have
more opportunity and a clearer field to go at some length into the
truly sublime subject which H. P. Blavatsky has set down for us
in The Secret Doctrine in the extracts first read this evening.
CHAPTER XVII
THE SILENT WATCHER.
. . . For countless generations hath the adept builded a fane of imperishable
rocks, a giant’s Tower of Infinite Thought, wherein the Titan dwelt, and will
yet, if need be, dwell alone, emerging from it but at the end of every cycle, to
invite the elect of mankind to co-operate with him and help in his turn enlighten
superstitious man. And we will go on in that periodical work of ours ; we will
not allow ourselves to be baffled in our philanthropic attempts until that day
when the foundations of a new continent of thought are so firmly built that no
amount of opposition and ignorant malice guided by the Brethren of the Shadow
will be found to prevail.
But until that day of final triumph someone has to be sacrificed— though we
accept but voluntary victims. The ungrateful task did lay her [H.P.B.] low
and desolate in the ruins of misery, misapprehension, and isolation : but she will
have her reward in the hereafter for we never were ungrateful. As regards the
Adept— not one of my kind, good friend, but far higher— you might have closed
your book with those lines of Tennyson's “ Wakeful Dreamer "-—you knew
him not—
" How could ye know him ? Ye were yet within
The narrower circle ; he had well nigh reached
The last, which, with a region of white flame,
Pure without heat into a larger air
Up-burning, and an ether of black blue,
Invests and ingirds all other lives. . . .”
The Mahatma Letters, p . 51.
W
E open our study this evening by reading a part of
the passages of T h e S ecr et D o c tr in e that were read
at our last meeting, that is to say from Volume I,
pages 207 and 208. Page 207 first:
The A rh a ts of the “ fire-mist ” of the 7th rung are but one remove
from the Root-Base of their Hierarchy— the highest on Earth, and
our Terrestrial chain. This “ Root-Base ” has a name which can only
be translated by several compound words into English— “ the ever-
living-human-Banyan.” This “ Wondrous Being ” descended from a
“ high region,” they say, in the early part of the Third Age, before
the separation of the sexes of the Third Race.
And then we pass over without reading it again, the paragraph
at the bottom of that page, beginning “ The ‘ B ein g ’ just
referred to ” , and ending with “ but a few Elect may profit by
the Gr eat Sacrifice ” , on page 208, and read now the last
paragraph on that page :
It is under the direct, silent guidance of this Mah A [which means
“ great ” ] G u r u [which means “ Teacher ”] that all the other less divine
Teachers and instructors of mankind became, from the first awakening
of human consciousness, the guides of early Humanity. It is through
178
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 179
these “ Sons of God ” that infant humanity got its first notions of all
the arts and sciences, as well as of spiritual knowledge ; and it is they
who have laid the first foundation-stone of those ancient civilizations
that puzzle so sorely our modern generation of students and scholars.
A s we n oted at our last m eeting, we are approaching a part o f
our studies where, to use the w ords o f the old thinkers, we feel
alm ost that we should rem ove our foot-gear, because we stand on
h oly ground. The sublim e passages w hich were read at our last
m eeting and now again at this one, contain, in fact, the outline
o f the m eaning o f the seventh of the seven Jewels or Treasures
o f W isdom , w hich has the catch-w ord or technical nam e o f A tm a-
V idya. This phrase litera cy signifies “ self-know ledge
N ow this Sanskrit w ord A tm a n is exceedingly difficult to trans­
late, but the English w ord “ self ” seems to com e nearest to an
adequate rendering o f it. A tm a-V idya m eans m uch m ore than
ordinarily we m ight understand b y the w ords “ K now ledge o f
the self ” ; yet, were we to know the Self in its fullness, w e should
know all know ledge that it is possible for m an to k n o w ; hence,
that title or technical nam e is given to it as descriptive o f the
entire branch o f the E soteric P h ilosophy w hich this seventh
Jew el contains. A s it is, we can know on ly parts of this branch
o f the E soteric Philosophy. W e are told that it is hinted in the
ancient w ritings, particularly in the Sanskrit, that even the m ost
spiritual beings on earth in this our age know not fully all that
is contained in this Treasure. There are possibly n ot a dozen
thinking beings on earth to-d a y, w ho of course w ould com prise the
very highest and holiest m en that the earth has brou gh t forth up
to the present period of evolution, w ho can in any sense fully
understand it. B ut we can have and understand appropriate
parts o f this sublim e W isd om -m ystery ; and it is these that w e
are goin g to attem pt to try to elucidate, to the best o f our
cap acity, this evening.
N ow we stated at our last m eeting that this seventh Treasure
or Jew el can be considered as a stu dy of the problem of h ow the
O n e b ecom es th e M a n y ; bu t it was also said that, as a m atter of
fact, the One essentially never becom es the m any. One m ight
as w ell say that the sun w hich gives us our light com es dow n to
earth in order to d o i t ; bu t it does n o t ; it sends out its rays,
em anations from itself, w hich illum inate, vitalize, and quicken
our w orld o f m atter ; and sim ilarly is the case w ith the One.
Further, w hat d o we m ean b y “ the One ” ? O bviously, we do
n ot m ean the personal G od o f any exoteric theology. N o m atter
h ow great, h ow vast in com pass spiritually, w e m ay consider this
One to be, it is still a unity, a being, and therefore it is finite.
T herefore, in order to elucidate our problem , w e turn to another
180 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
one of these seven Treasures, and we find an illustration of this
particular branch of our problem in the lokas— a technical word
for the Hierarchies, as is also Brahtndnda, or “ Egg of Brahma ” ,—
of which the One is the Root-base if we consider it as the origin
of all the beings and things in that Hierarchy ; or the Flower or
Summit or Acme, if we consider it as the aim and end of our
evolution. This, therefore, is the One. But there are other Ones,
Ones innumerable, in the Kosmical Universe ; some higher than
our highest, or lower than our lowest degree.
You doubtless remember that in studying the Doctrine of
Hierarchies we showed that these Hierarchies are endless in
number. They themselves, each one of them, can be considered
as a unit; and there are many above us and many below us :
innumerable ones above us and innumerable ones below u s;
innumerable ones within and innumerable ones without our
Kosmical Hierarchy. They are endless in number in all direc­
tions. From this One of our hierarchy, however, and we mean
in this instance the Universal Kosmos or the Kosmical Universe,
comes all our life, all our being, all that we are without and
within. It is the Source and Origin of everything that we can be
and know, working in and upon that background of the Bound­
less which comprises the limitless aggregate of all other Hier­
archies whatsoever.
The most extended, the vastest, and the most immense
Hierarchy of our unfettered imagination is but as a mote of dust,
as a single Atom, in comparison with the Boundless. The Bound­
less cannot ever nor in any sense be considered as one, as a mere
unity. One implies the finite, the beginning of computation, or
enumeration; and we must think of the Boundless as a zero,
signifying endless and limitless infinitude, with no qualifications
whatsoever that belong to all that is manifested or limited ; and,
on the other side of the illustration, signifying the all-encompass­
ing, endless, boundless, Fullness of the All. This is Space ;
which is either the unlimited Fullness of the All,or the unlimited
Emptiness of the All, according as we view it. The latter view
is the profoundly spiritual itinyatd of the Buddhist philosopher.
Let us turn for a moment to another kindred subject. Have
you ever thought— doubtless you have ; but I remember that, as
the Teacher has asked me to point out, these studies are pursued
not so much for ourselves as for those students not resident here
who have not the chance that we here have, and who will read
them— have we ever considered and pondered over the meaning
of the word immutable when people use it as sometimes happens
when speaking of such subjects as Space, the Boundless, etc. ?
Has it ever occurred to us to try to realize that if the Boundless
were “ immutable ” even for the minutest fraction of a second,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 181
the entire fabric of universal kosmical being would vanish away
in the twinkling of an eye, like a shadow on a w all! All that we
can know or mentally figurate of so limitlessly vast a subject as
the Boundless, is such thoughts as we vaguely express in words or
phrases like " Boundless Life ” , etc., which is M o tio n : endless
and beginningless Activity. " Immutability ” is a phantom of
the imagination ; a mere reflexion in our minds of finite pause.
There is ceaseless Motion, ceaseless and endless and beginningless
Life in the horizonless Fields of the Boundless.
But when we consider the One, the Summit, or the Root-base
of our own H ie r a r c h y ,— or of any other Hierarchy— we can by
spiritual intuitions grasp the Truth concerning I t ; but if we go
beyond that Hierarchy, going up step by step from lower to higher
spheres, we shall always, we must always, reach a point where our
understanding and imagination fall powerless before the immensity
of the (to u s) non-understandable; because we can in nowise en­
compass or comprehend it ; only can we see that in It and from It
is the Infinite Life, whichi n its cea seless u n e n d in g m o tio n i s " immut­
ably ” the same always. O n ly in th is p a r a d o x ic a l sen se is th e w ord
" im m u ta b le “ p e r m is s ib le . So much, then, for the Boundless.
But as regards the One, it is analogically “ immutable ” o n ly f o r
its ow n p e r io d o f a c tiv ity a s S o u r c e o f a H ie r a r c h y , a n d o n ly f o r
th o se below i t ; and hence you will find our Teacher occasionally
speaking of the " immutable law ” , that which for the “ seven
eternities ” during which our period of manifestation endures,
“ varies not, and knows no shadow of turning And why ?
Because that highest Summit, that One, is the Supreme Silent
Watcher, the Supreme Life-Giver, the Great Supreme Sacrifice,
to use H. P. Blavatsky's terms, of our own great Kosmic Hier­
archy, which is the highest that our imagination can attain to.
But do not confuse th is Supreme Silent Watcher with the Silent
Watcher of the less Hierarchy of the Teachers.
When our Hierarchy goes into pralaya— which means the
release of its entirety of lives and life for higher and spiritual
things of greater value and of nobler compass than those we now
have or can even conceive of— when that happens, I say, it is but
as the passing, as it were, of a cloud hitherto over the " face of the
Boundless ” , and hosts of other universes are then coming equally
into manifested life as ours will then be passing out of it for its
pralayic rest. Try and form some simple concept of the meaning
of endless and beginningless Eternity and of the Boundless, and
drop it there : unceasing life, endless activity, never-ending life
and consciousness in unceasing motion everywhere. It is only
” parts ”— which, as compared with the Totality which is the
Boundless, are as nothing— only such " parts ” , so to say, th is, tha t,
or a n oth er, " part ” , which in its maya of manifested life and
182 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
unm anifested repose, alternately is active or p a ssiv e ; w hich
passes aw ay and then returns again. The wise ancients never
both ered their heads m u ch abou t any foolish attem pt to fath om
the B oundless or the lim itless Eternal. T h ey recognised the
R eality of B eing, and let it go at that, know ing well that an ever­
grow ing know ledge o f the U niversal Life was and is all that
hum an intelligence cou ld ever attain to, b y an ever-expanding
Consciousness.
This alternate appearing and disappearing o f worlds or H ier­
archies, is the teaching im bodied in the first o f the seven Jewels
or Treasures of W isdom . A s the hum an spirit sends dow n its ray
and reincarnates b y m eans o f that ray into a hum an being o f
astral m atter and o f m ind-m atter and o f flesh, so sim ilarly, when
the tim e com es for a H ierarchy to re-im bod y itself, to undertake
its task anew of Palingenesis or repeated self-generation, the sam e
relative course is run. N ever let us forget the ancient axiom o f
the E soteric W isd om w hich the H erm etists so beau tifu lly
expressed : A s above so b elo w . W h at happens in heaven is
m irrored on earth, m u ta tis m u ta n d is . M an's palingenesis, as a
m icrocosm , is bu t a faithful co p y of the palingenesis of w o r ld s ;
o f his ow n kosm ic H ierarchy as the M acrocosm .
L et us n ow turn to our m ain them e for to-night, after the
prelim inary observations first m ade. A s the Sum m it o f our
H ierarchy is One, the R o o t o f our e n s } in w hich we " m ove and
live and have our being " , as the Christian A postle Paul puts i t ;
so s im ila r ly i n the sp ir itu a l-p s y c h o lo g ic a l H ie r a r c h y there is a O n e
i n w h om w e are a ll ro o ted , in w hom p s y c h o lo g ic a lly a n d m y s tic a lly
a n d r e lig io u s ly , y e a a n d a s p ir a tio n a lly , w e liv e . This One is the
Great Initiator, the Great Sacrifice, the W on drou s B eing referred
to b y H. P. B la v a ts k y ; the Suprem e H ead o f the H ierarchy of
the Teachers. F rom it originally com e our noblest im pulses
through our ow n H igher Selves ; from it com e the life and
aspiration we feel, stirring oft in our m inds and hearts ; from it,
through our higher natures, com e the urge to betterm ent, the
sense of loy alty and troth, all the things w hich m ake life h oly and
bright and high and well w orth living.
It was during the T h ird R ace of H um anity o f this F ourth
R ou n d on this globe, when the incarnate ray in each of the units
o f the then m ankind had evolved forth its vehicle (by g en era tin g
fr o m w ith in it s e lf t his vehicle, fit for the expression of itself, of the
divine spirit w ithin) ; and then that vehicle, or soul, was becom e
self-conscious. Then, as tim e passed, there cam e a period when an
Interpreter, a Guide, a Teacher, o f the R ace o f m ankind, was
needed, because the race was rapidly sinking w ith every su b-cycle
o f the Great A ge m ore totally into m atter and consequent
illusion and spiritual defilem ent, for such is prod u ced b y the
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 183
evolvin g o f m atter. The D hyan-C hohans, the " L ords o f M edita­
tion " , w ho were m en from a form er great Period o f A ctiv ity o f
our Planet Terra, beings from a form er M anvantara, were then
leaving or w ithdraw ing from this earth ; they had already done
their cyclical w ork, done all they could, in inform ing, inspiring,
and illum inating the then M a n k in d ; bu t they now needed
successors m ore like the sinking Men of the period. B y reason
of a M ystery w hich we cannot elucidate here, the noblest repre­
sentatives o f the then hum anity becam e the direct and willing
vehicles o f self-conscious R ays from these D hyan-C hohans,
" L ords o f M editation It was n ot e x a c tly what is called in
Brahm anism an A vatara— a “ descent " w hich means the over­
sh a d o w in g incarnation of a p o r tio n of a high spirit in a high hum an
being ; but it was the actual in d w e llin g (fully conscious on b oth
sides, and relatively com plete) of a p ortion of the essence of a
D hyan-C hohan in a fully conscious, willing, and u tterly self-
sacrificing, Man o f high degree. N ow , please m ark w e ll: the
highest one of these incarnations, the noblest M an-fruit of hum an
evolu tion produ ced up to that tim e, b eca m e the h ea d o f th is
s p ir itu a l-p s y c h o lo g ic a l H ie r a r c h y lite r a lly , and in very truth, in
his case, was a Man infilled w ith a D hyan-C hohan : w hat m ight
actually be called an incarnate god. This was— and still Is— the
Silent W atch er, the Initiator, the W on drou s Being, the Great
Sacrifice— “ sacrifice " for a reason w hich I explain elsewhere.
Pause a m om ent. L et us think aw ay for a m om ent from the
thread of our them e. L et us consider the im m ense hope, the
profou n d intellectual splendor, and the spiritual beau ty w hich
w e find in these teachings. T h ey are w ell w orth thinking over,
indeed ! If anything, T h eosophy, the E soteric W isdom , is a vast
doctrine o f hope, n ot o f m ere “ optim ism " as the w ord is
ordinarily understood ; bu t a doctrine of vitalizing h ope and
interior illum ination. A h, there, in these w onder-teachings, is the
Path along w hich w e m ay ascend. M ore particularly, it depends
on ourselves w hether our ascent along the stairw ay of that R a y
w hich is living and w orking in each one of us is achieved or n o t ;
and— pray listen carefully— w hether or n ot we ascend b y our
being c o n s c io u s ly linked through that B eing w ith the H ighest.
T h at B eing, that W on drou s Being, does n ot " com e dow n " and
“ descend " into us ; because for It this w ould be pollution o f a
sort n ot to be tolerated ; yet we are linked w ith It b y and through
the R a y w ithin us. A s the sun sends forth innum erable rays, yet
rem ains ever the sun ; so through this B eing pours, as the R o o t-
base of our spiritual-psychological H ierarchy, a R a y w hich is
instinct and alive in every norm al child that com es into the w orld.
N ow it depends upon us w hether we follow along that R a y
upw ards or, as p oin ted out at our last m eeting, abandon our
184 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
divine birthright, and follow the lure o f Chaos and the P it—
respond to the exhalations from “ hell.” There are people,
perhaps, w h o m ay n ot have u nderstood the m eaning o f the w ord
" annihilation ” as w e use it. L et us understand that annihila­
tion, strictly speaking, exem plifies w hat our present Teacher
K atherine T in gley calls the “ infinite m ercy o f the H igher Law ” .
There is no such nightm are as “ eternal suffering ” . Those hum an
beings w ho have forfeited their divine birthright, go to p ie c e s ;
th ey lose their p e r s o n a l e n tity ; but when that has happened, there
rem ains but an em p ty psych ic shell. W hen we lay our b o d y dow n
at death and it goes to pieces and its atom s are returned to the
earth w hich gave it birth, is there anything very dreadful in that ?
T ake the same rule and apply it to the case o f the “ lost souls ” ,
o f w hich we were speaking at a form er m eeting.
If anyone desires to get a m asterly outline of this su bject, let
him turn to T h e K e y to T h e o s o p h y , pages 77 and 92 and 93, and he
w ill there find w hat H . P. B lavatsky tells her readers o f “ annihila­
tion ” , and m ore particularly in con n exion w ith the B uddhist
teaching as taught b y the L ord G autam a the B uddha. W h y I
say the “ L ord ” B uddha, will be explained in a m om ent.
This W on drou s B eing is the Chief, the M aster-Initiate, the
H ead and Leader o f the spiritual-psychological H ierarchy o f
w hich our Masters form a part. H e is the " E ver-living-hum an-
B anyan ” Tree from w hich th ey hang as leaves and fruits,
spiritually speaking. So also d o we, spiritually speaking. On
every globe, on every m an-bearing planet of every sun in the
infinitudes of Space, we are taught that as far as great spiritual
seers know , the sam e thing exists there. There is over each one a
M aster-Teacher, and in each case he m erits the term w hich H . P.
B lavatsky gives him , taking it from her ow n Teachers, o f T h e
G rea t S a c r ific e . W h y is he so called ? B ecause, from boundless
com passion for those low er in the scale o f E volu tion than he is,
he has renounced all h ope and op portu n ity in this M anvantara of
him self goin g higher, out o f this sorrow -laden w orld, and rem ains
behind am ong us as our G reat Inspirer and Teacher ; he him self
can learn n othing m ore o f this H ierarchy, for all know ledge
pertaining to it or possible in it is his already. H e has sa crificed .
him self for all below him .
N ow there are som e people w ho talk o f sacrifice o f that sort as
if it w ere som ething gruesom e or e v i l ! W h y, is there anything
m ore sublim ely beautiful than the giving o f self in noble service to
others— to a ll ? Is there anything w hich actually can lead m an
higher ? Is there anything w hich opens the heart m ore ? Is there
anyth in g w hich opens m ore the doors o f inspiration ? A n d, on the
oth er hand, is there anything w hich m ore qu ick ly closes these
doors, or m ore fu lly belittles m an, w hich m ore qu ick ly shrivels the
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 185
self, than does its op posite : personality, selfishness, egoism ? A y ,
there is a jo y , an unspeakable jo y , in self-sacrifice o f this high
kind. T h e W on drou s B eing is techn ically called “ The G reat
Sacrifice ” because, having reached the pinnacle o f evolu tion in
this our H ierarchy, he can learn nothing m ore in or from th at
H ierarchy. H e has deliberately renounced further progress for
him self in our M a n va n tara ; and this tru ly is th e greatest o f
sacrifices ; and he has renounced it in order to live for those less
beings w h o are w eary, and w h o stum ble on the U pw ard W a y ;
follow in g the dictates inherent in that noble cry : “ H ow can I
live in heaven w hen one single being on earth m ust suffer ? ” Y o u
are rem inded o f the old story o f the Scotsm an w ho, w hen told b y
his D om inie that his d og cou ld not go to heaven w ith him ,
answered in sta n tly : “ Oh, D om inie, if m y dog cannot go to
heaven w ith m e, then shall I stay here on earth w ith m y faithful
d og ; for he never w ou ld abandon m e \ ” T h at is a tou ch o f the
sam e spirit o f d evotion.
In th e great Indian E pic, T h e M a h d b h a r a ta , we find a closely
sim ilar tale o f one o f the great heroes o f that w ork, w ho, having
m et w ith severe trials o f m any kinds, on his w ay to Swarga or
H eaven, successfully passed them a l l ; b u t w hen he finally reached
the confines o f H eaven he was m et b y the D evas, w ho told him :
“ B rother, you r faithful dog enters n ot here ” . A n d he s a id :
“ Oh, then shall I go back w ith m y dog, m y faithful com panion
w ho loved m e and w ho has follow ed me everyw here. Shall I
abandon him and leave him outside ? ” A n d the D evas, accord ­
ing to the beautiful legend, then opened w ide the gates o f H eaven,
and the heavenly choristers began to sing a paean o f w elcom e and
praise to the faithful hero-heart, w ho w ould have renounced his
ow n unspeakable bliss for the sake o f a lovin g and faithful creature
less ev olv ed than he.
This is the spirit o f renunciation o f self for others, as exem plified
in legend and story. Is there anything m ore beautiful than it ?
N ow let us go a step farther. Let us leave our them e for a few
m om ents and take up again a m atter w hich w e feel was not fully
understood, perhaps, due to our insufficient exposition o f it at our
last m eeting. W e spoke then o f there being tw o classes o f “ lost
souls ” . T hat is quite correct. B ut w e m ust also p oin t ou t that
there are likewise tw o sub-divisions, in the second o f these tw o
classes, and these tw o sub-divisions o f the second class are those
w ho fully m erit the old Christian term “ w orkers o f spiritual
in iqu ity The first sub-division com prise those w ho are com ­
m on ly called conscious sorcerers; and the second com prise the
sam e ty p e o f beings bu t include those w ho have reached such a
p oin t o f inner pow er, yea, o f e v il spiritual strength, that th ey are
able even to defeat N ature's call to dissolution for the entire term
186 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
o f the M anvantara. T h ey m erit truly the old m ystic saying,
“ workers o f spiritual evil
In order to m ake this difficult subject som ewhat clearer, consult
and reflect over the subjoined diagram , giving a brief outline o f
the various consciousnesses in a H ierarchy :—
D hyän-Chohans
Buddhas
M ahatm ans
Chelas
G ood Men
Soulless Men .
The " Aw akened ", of various
degrees.
V ery num erous. The “ Living
D ead ” .
Class i. Men th orou ghly evil V ery few.
Class 2
' Spiritual Sorcerers.
Sub. div. i
Chohans o f Conscious E vil.
, Sub. div. 2
L ost S o u ls : actu ­
ally, or to be. D es­
tined, all, for anni­
hilation. Class 2 are
extrem ely few.
The entire system hangs like a Chain from the Prim eval Seed, the
R oot-base of the H ierarchy.
The first sub-division com prises those w ho are annihilated when
this globe goes into its “ obscuration ” ; but to the second sub­
division belong th ey w ho are alm ost hum an incarnations of w hat
the Tibetans called the L h a m a y in ; or som etim es th ey m ay even
be overshadow ed b y the M a m o -C h o h a n s , w hich preside at the
Pralayas. These last, how ever, are not exactly “ devils ” or evil
entities, but rather beings whose destiny it is for the tim e in view
to carry on the w ork of destruction, o f desolation. A s regards the
higher spiritual sorcerers and workers o f evil, the second sub­
division, their final destiny is truly terrible, for there awaits them
at the close o f the M anvantara the a v tc h i-n ir v d n a , the absolute
contrast and nether pole o f the N irvana of s p ir it; and then a
M anvantara o f unparalleled m isery. T hey are the polar opposites
o f the D hyan-Chohans. Final and utter annihilation is their end.
N ature is bi-polar ; and as is the action, so is the reaction.
N ow annihilation, as it is used in the E soteric Philosophy, and
as it is com m on ly understood b y educated thinkers o f our School,
does not mean w hat people com m on ly im agine it to be. It means
the breaking up, the dissolution, o f a personal entity, but never o f
the im m ortal Individuality, w hich is im possible. W e speak, and
speak correctly, of the dissolution or the annihilation o f an arm y,
or o f the annihilation o f a flock o f sheep. W hen the separate
entities are gone, killed, or w hatever it m ay be, the flo c k o f sheep
is no m ore, the flo c k is dissolved. It is annihilated as a flock, as an
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 187
entity. A n d sim ilarly, annihilation in its p sych ological sense, does
n ot m ean that it is the im m ortal spirit w hich is annihilated. T hat
idea is p erfectly ludicrous. A n im m ortal spirit cannot be anni­
hilated. Its residence, its dw elling-place, is infinite space ; and
its tim e is eternity. B ut as our b od y dissolves, is annihilated as a
b od y, is resolved and dissolved into its com ponent elem ents ; so
w ith the “ lost soul ” w hich is at first a m ere psych ic shell, when
the im pulses w hich cam e to it in the tim e w hen it was linked w ith
an incarnate spirit, have spent their force ; then its term com es,
it is dissolved, it is annihilated, it ceases, it passes out o f being.
There is n othing left o f it, for like a dead physical b od y, it is
resolved into its com ponent elem ents. B ut in the first stages, it
becom es spiritually dead, though m entally alive. It is a psych ic
corpse, from w hich the im m ortal elem ent has fled. That is w hat
a " lost soul ” is.
W e students o f the E soteric P hilosophy, o f this School, know
w hat happens to the kam a-rupa o f a m an after the death of the
physical b od y . It is finally dissolved, or annihilated. It is in
nature's course that it m ust be so. I tell you that w hen we spoke
at our last m eeting o f the ancient w isdom -teachings o f the L ord
B uddha, to the effect that there is “ no abiding principle in m an ” ,
using the w ords o f R h ys D avids, the em inent W elsh scholar, w ho
is a bright literary h onor to his cou n try despite the m istakes that
he m akes in m isunderstanding m uch o f the inner sense o f the
Buddhist teaching, we m ean sim ply this, and you all know i t :
that the o n ly a b id in g th in g in m a n 's n a tu re is fr o m a n d in h is H ig h e r
S e l f , his higher nature. H is b o d y ; his vital force ; his astral
double, the lin ga-sarira; the kam ic principle ; the m anas ; all
these pass aw ay at death. N othing of an abiding principle in the
com bin ation o f these five. Y et while these five com pon en t parts
o f m an's p sy ch olog y hang together in physical life, th ey form the
“ m an Is there any one of you so egoistic as to think that this
p oor being of clay n ow speaking before you is the im m ortal spirit ?
O r the life w hich inform s it ? Or this p oor m ind of m atter, w hich
I am using as an instrum ent w herew ith to speak to you ? N o !
The thought just expressed is com m on ly supposed— and rightly
supposed— to be a B uddhist teaching ; it is also the teaching of
the A n cient W isdom ; it was likewise the teaching of the Stoics,
and also of Plato. W h y, it is likewise the teaching of the scriptures
o f Judaism and o f C hristianity. Y ou d ou bt it ? Turn to the B o o k
o f E c c le s ia s te s , one o f the so-called sacred canonical w orks o f the
latter tw o religions. W e have m ade our ow n translation of
the follow ing passages, for we trust n ot the translation o f the
theological scribes. T h ey are too harsh on the one hand, and
insufficiently clear on the other. W e find, then, in this B o o k o f
E c c le s ia s te s , Chapter 3, verses 18 to 21, the follow ing ; and please
188 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
rem em ber th at this b ook is supposed to have been w ritten b y the
so-called " wisest m an in the w orld " , Solom on. W h atever w e
m ay think o f that n otion, those w ho accept this b ook believe it.
It is old-fashioned and popu lar th eology.
“ Said I in m y heart, concerning the nature of the sons o f m an
(Addm) (it is) that the E loh im m ay form them , and to show that
th ey are beasts, th ey them selves. F or the destiny o f the sons o f
m an (Addm) and the destiny of the beast is one destiny to them :
as dies the one, so dies the other ; and the thinking facu lty [the
H ebrew w ord is R d a h h , very extraordinary indeed !] is one for a l l ;
and the superiority o f m an over the beast is nothing, because all
are illusion. A ll g o to one place. A ll are from the dust, and all
return to the d u st.” B ut now listen to the follow ing, show ing that
the w riter of this, although he certainly was n ot that m ythical
figure “ Solom on ” , was nevertheless a m an w ho k n e w . Listen !
“ W h o know s the thinking facu lty o f the sons o f m an w hich, her­
self, ascends above ; and the thinking facu lty of the beast w hich,
herself, descends under the earth ? ” There we have the age-old
teaching regarding p sych ology, and when properly understood, it
will easily be seen that every w ord o f it is true. A n d when the
K ey -W isd om behind this brief exposition is understood, it will be
seen to be u nutterably beautiful. W h at vain illusions did those
m isguided m en o f the early sects o f Christendom foist upon the
early w estern E uropean w orld ; w hat irreligious folly, to teach
that the physical b o d y o f m an is such a perm anent and necessary
thing, that it will be resurrected, and, if the life of the indw elling
soul was good , shall sit w ith m ultitudes on the “ right hand o f
G od A lm igh ty ” . W h at u n believably crass m aterialism ! M ore
spiritual harm was done to the E uropean races b y teachings such
as this than anything, perhaps, that h istory records. Like m an y
oth er teachings o f early Christianity, this one was a h orribly
m istaken and distorted tenet o f the A n cient W isd om concerning
the R egeneration o f the Personality into an im m ortal In d iv id u ­
ality— one o f the ancient M ystery-D octrines w hich w e explain
briefly elsewhere. B u t, on the other hand, it is necessary to teach
a m an o f his d u a l n a tu r e , a su bject w hich our present Teacher calls
to our attention alm ost daily, begging us to think abou t it and to
try to understand it. T each him that he is in his higher nature
really an essential spirit, verily, an incarnate god, and that he can
becom e consciously that g od i n the fle s h i f he w ill. A n d teach him
that if he chooses to follow the beast-nature he becom es as a beast,
for the inner Self tolerates n ot this latter course. The silver thread
(w hich is golden above) is in that case broken ; and instead o f the
m an w e have the m an-beast, for from the m an-beast the Soul
departs, N ature's m erciful liberation o f the self-conscious in­
dw elling In dividu alitv.
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y 189
There is n o “ endless torture ” or punishm ent anywhere.
N ow , m y tim e for this evening is drawing to a close. I have
not said one-tenth part o f what the Teacher has instructed m e to
say concerning this su bject of the seventh Treasure in its connexion
with the “ W on drou s B eing ” ; yet I wish to add a few m ore
words to-n igh t before ending. First, as to m y reason for using the
term " The L ord B uddha This is the reason. This W ondrous
B eing overshadow ed about tw enty-five hundred years ago, a pure
and noble-m inded you th born in the north o f India. The vehicle,
this you th , was in all w ays receptive, and the W isdom -teaching
com ing from him was given to the w orld. This chosen vehicle was
called Siddhârtha as his personal nam e ; his clan-nam e was
G autam a ; and he was later given the title " Sâkyam uni ” — m ean­
ing the Sâkya “ sage ” ; he was also later called b y the title o f the
" B uddha M. This w ord B u d d h a is a title m eaning the “ A w ak ­
ened ” ; just as the w ord C h r isto s or C h r is t, is a title m eaning the
“ A n oin ted ” . The W ondrous B eing overshadow ed, yea, and
partly entered into, this you n g man w ho had com e strictly in
accordance w ith the law o f cycles, at the cyclically appointed tim e
in the W orld 's course ; for an A w akened One, a full Christ, that is
to say a B u d d h a , was cyclically destined to com e at that tim e. H e
was in the line o f the successively-com ing B uddhas, and he was
the noblest, he was the highest, o f the M ystic H ierarchy o f his
period, as also he was then the nearest to this W on drou s Initiator,
o f any o f our race. W e know that our Teachers them selves speak
of the L ord B uddha as their Teacher. That you n g m an, we are
taught, cam e d irectly from the L odge : not his b o d y ; but the
H oly E n tity infilling it. H e was one of their greater ones. Con­
cerning all these profou nd and w onderful doctrines there is vastly
m ore that sim ply cannot be uttered here, for obviou s reasons ;
there is an entire departm ent of the E soteric Philosophy involved
w hich treats o f som e of the m ost carefully guarded secrets of
N ature and Being. W e m erely, then, hint, and pass on.
H . P. B lavatsky herself, you m ay rem em ber, took P a n s i l , a
Pâli w ord m eaning the F ive Qualities or V ow s (in Sanskrit,
P a fic h a -é îla ), and thereby becam e a fo r m a l B uddhist. W h y ?
Because, as the Messenger from the Lodge, she knew perfectly
well that back of the outw ard teachings, behind the exoteric
doctrines o f G autam a-B uddha, there is the Inner T ruth, there is
the E soteric B u d d h is m , as w ell as the E s o te r ic B u d h is m : the
form er w ord spelled w ith tw o ds, m eaning the teachings o f Gau­
tam a the B uddha ; and the other w ord spelled w ith one d, and
m eaning W is d o m . A n d th ey are truly one when " B uddhism ” is
properly explained and understood. She knew exactly what she
was about. L ook , for instance, at the w ay in w hich she writes of
the B uddha.
190 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
But, while all the above is strict and accurate truth, I must
enter here another caveat. Are we Buddhists ? No. Not more so
than we are Christians, except perhaps in this sense, that the
religious philosophy of the Buddha-Sakyamuni is incomparably
nearer to the Ancient Wisdom, the Esoteric Philosophy. Its main
fault to-day is that its later teachers carried its doctrines too far
along merely formal or exoteric lines ; and yet with all that, and
to this day, it remains the purest and holiest of the exoteric
religions on earth, and its teachings even exoterically are true.
They need but the esoteric key in interpretation of them. As a
matter of fact, the same may be said of all the great ancient World-
religions. Christianity, Brahmanism, and others, all have the
same esoteric Wisdom behind the outward veil of the exoteric
formal faith.
You will remember that H. P. Blavatsky says somewhere that
of the two branches of Buddhism, i.e., the Southern and the
Northern, the Southern still retains the teachings of the ‘‘ Buddha’s
brain ” , the “ Eye-doctrine ” , that is to say his outer philosophy
for the general world; and that the Northern still retains his
" Heart-doctrine ”,
Now understand those two expressions. They are Buddhist
terms : “ Eye-doctrine ” and “ Heart-doctrine ” are real Buddhist
terms. They are also Esoteric Wisdom terms. The " Eye-
doctrine ” is that which is seen ; it may be false and it may be
true ; but in the technical sense it is a true exotericism lacking
only the key. The “ Eye-doctrine ” is sometimes called the
doctrine of forms and ceremonies, that is, the formal outward
presentation. Whereas the “ Heart-doctrine ” is that which is
hid, but which is the inner life, the heart-blood, of the religion.
As the eye is seen and also sees; so, conversely, the heart is un­
seen, but is the life-giver, and applied to religion the expression
means the doctrine of the inner heart of the Teaching. As a
secondary thought, it also gives the idea that it contains the
nobler part of human conduct, what people call kindliness,
humanity, compassion, pity.
We hope to resume our studies concerning this Wondrous Being
when the Leader calls us together again. It depends upon our­
selves as to how long our studies are to last. It is for the Teacher
to judge of this, and I think that we all of us— I know I so feel—
should bow our heart in gratitude to the Masters’ representative
here among us for giving us this chance to purify our souls with
the thoughts which come to us not merely from ancient times, but
from those high Souls who stand back of her, and who, if they do
not actually “ guide ” this movement, at least, we are told, they
“ watch over it and protect it ” , providing always that we in our
turn do our full duty by her who sits among us, their representative.
CHAPTER XVIII
THE SPIRITUAL-PSYCHOLOGICAL HIERARCHY OF ADEPTS. THE
" WONDROUS-BEING,” THE BUDDHAS, NIRMANAKAYAS,
d h y A n - c h o h a n s .
Then the Blessed One spake, and said :
' Know, Vasettha, that (from time to time) a Tath&gata is born into the
world, a fully Enlightened One, blessed and worthy, abounding in wisdom and
goodness, happy, with knowledge of the world, unsurpassed as a guide to erring
mortals, a teacher of gods and men, a Blessed Buddha. He, by himself,
thoroughly understands, and sees, as it were, face to face this universe— the
world below with all its spirits, and the worlds above, of Mara and of Brahmi
— and all creatures, Samanas and Brahmans, gods and men, and he then makes
his knowledge known to others. The truth doth he proclaim both in its letter
and in its spirit, lovely in its origin, lovely in its progress, lovely in its consum­
mation : the higher life doth he make known, in all its purity and in all its
perfectness.*
(The Sacred Books of the East.) Tevigga Sutta, pp. 186-7.
O
U R stu dy this evening begins w ith reading once m ore
a part o f the m atter from the first volum e of T h e S ecret
D o c tr in e , w hich was read at our last m eeting, three
weeks ago, I believe ; nam ely, on page 207, the end of
the first paragraph :
The A rh a ts of the “ fire-mist ” of the 7th rung are but one remove
from the Root-Base of their Hierarchy— the highest on Earth, and our
Terrestrial chain. This “ Root-Base ” has a name which can only be
translated by several compound words into English— “ the ever-living-
human-Banyan.” This “ Wondrous B ein g” descended from a “ high
region,” they say, in the early part of the Third Age, before the separa­
tion of the sexes of the Third Race.
This evening we are goin g to m ake a step forw ard, in som e
respects, far and aw ay b eyon d any distance that we have travelled
on a sim ilar occasion. O ur preceding tw o studies have been for
the purpose, m ainly, o f illustrating som e of the prelim inary ideas
con n ected w ith this w onderful doctrine of the “ W on drou s B eing ” .
First, then, let us note that the k ey-w ord of this teaching is the
w ord " B anyan D oubtless you all know w hat a banian-tree is,
a w ell-know n tree in India, and called the F i c u s b en g a len sis, the
“ B engal F ig ” , because it is a relative o f the fig-tree. It grow s
rapidly, and soon attains to very respectable dim ensions. From
its branches there hang dow n tendrils, w hich, when they reach the
soil, th ey strike into the grou nd and becom e roots there. A nd the
tendril which grew dow n and rooted itself in the ground becom es
192 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
another tree-trunk, in its turn sending forth branches, these
branches anew sending forth oth er tendrils, becom in g in their turn
new roots, w hich again becom e new trunks, sending forth other
branches, developing in their turn new tendrils, and so on. It is
a w onderful figure o f speech to have been chosen for this subject.
N ow this “ W on drou s B eing " is a spiritual Banian. T o say
th at it is " our H igher Self " , w ould be using a m isleading phrase ;
it w ould be doin g violence to the facts. N otw ithstanding this,
how ever, in one sense it is our H igher Self, our Param atm an.
F rom it we spiritually s p r in g ; and when, in the course o f the
cycles, the L ife-W av e shall have run its R ounds on this P lanetary
Chain, into the H ie r a r c h ic a l Banian again we shall be w ithdraw n.
It is in very truth, so far as this planet is concerned, and so far as
its thinking entities m ore particularly are concerned, our “ Father
in H eaven " . T he “ W on drou s B eing " referred to here m ust n ot
be confused w ith its low er cop y, the Suprem e Initiator, the G reat
Sacrifice, the H ead of the Spiritual-psychological H ierarchy o f
A depts, the m ore im m ediate su bject o f our present study.
Y o u will rem em ber that in our form er studies we poin ted out
that the course o f the evolu tion o f m an, m ore particularly o f his
psych ological nature, was a co p y in m iniature of the developm ent
n ot m erely o f w orlds o f the M acrocosm ic Scale, but also o f various
high Spiritual B eings w ho form the directing Intelligences o f the
K osm os, and of their V ehicles in the universe. First, w hen the
tim e com es for m anifestation, for the sending forth o f a life-w ave,
it begins, rounds out, and then com pletes its evolu tion ary course
on the first “ plane " of its dow nw ard and forw ard jou rney. Then,
passing from that “ plane " , to use the ordinary term , and going
to a low er one, it leaves on the plane or sphere to and into w hich
it had first penetrated, vehicles of various sorts, rem aining m ore
or less active, though the m ain vigor o f the L ife-W ave has passed
on. A n d so through and in all o f the seven planes or spheres of
m anifestation. First in the spiritual w orld ; then in the p sy ch ic a l;
then in the a s tr a l; and lastly in the p h y s ica l; thus reaching the
lim it w hich the active im pulse or force o f the E volu tion ary W av e
attains in that particular m anvantara, w hich is w hat we call
“ absolute m atter " for that particular L ife-W ave : four planes
from its beginning, counting dow nw ards. Three m ore planes
upw ards round out the M anvantaric Cycle.
R em em ber here that our T eaching allows o f no such things as
“ A bsolutes " in the ordinary sense, for actually all “ A bsolutes "
are relative. The A bsolute Self, our “ Father in H eaven " , is but
the " A bsolu te " of our H ierarchy, its crow n, its sum m it, its g lory ;
or, considering it as the beginning o f m anifested beings, the R o o t
or the Seed thereof. A n d, as all nature w orks in bi-polar phases,
“ absolute m atter " , therefore, is th e u ltim a te d e p th to w h ic h a
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPHY 193
spiritual impulse can reach in that particular manvantaric cycle.
B elow it are other com plete Hierarchies ; while above our hier­
archical (not individual) “ Father in H eaven ” is the low est plane
o f another but superior H ierarchy, one of innum erable m ultitudes
o f Hierarchies, w hich in their aggregate com prise the U niversal
K osm os.
In our last stu dy we spoke o f the care that we should have when
we speak of the " One " ; the reason is that there are infinite
m ultitudes o f such " Ones " , a necessary im plication o f w hat we
have said this evening and elsewhere.
N ow , as the M onad descends into m atter, or rather as its R a y —
one of other innum erable R ays proceeding from it— is propelled
into m atter, it secretes from itself and then excretes on each one
o f the seven planes through which it passes its various vehicles,
all overshadow ed b y the Self, the same Self in you and in m e, in
plants and in animals, in fact in all that is and belongs to that
H ierarchy. It is the One Self, the Suprem e Self or Param atm an
of the H ierarchy. It illum ines and follow s each individual M onad
and all the latter's hosts of R ays. E ach such M onad is a Spiritual
Seed from the previous M anvantara, w hich m anifests as a M onad
in this M anvantara ; and this M onad through its R ays throw s out
from itself b y secretion and then excretion all its vehicles ; and
these vehicles are, first, the Spiritual E go, the reflexion or cop y in
m iniature of the M onad itself, but individualized through the
M anvantaric E volu tion , “ bearing ” or “ carrying ” as a vehicle
the M onadic R ay. The latter cannot directly con tact the low er
planes, because it is th e m onadic essence itself, the latter a still
higher Ray o f the infinite B oundless com posed o f infinite m ulti­
p licity in unity.
The next vehicle is the spiritual soul, the " bearer " o f the
Spiritual E go. On its ow n higher plane, this vehicle is, as it were,
a sheaf or pillar o f light. Sim ilarly w ith the various E gos and
their related vehicle-souls on the inferior planes, all grow ing
con stan tly m ore dense, as the planes o f m atter gradually thicken
dow nw ards and becom e m ore dense, into w hich the m onadic R a y
penetrates until the final “ soul " . The “ final soul " is the
physical b od y, the general vehicle or “ bearer " or " carrier " of
them all. “ Soul " , as the term is here used, is seen to be a general
expression for any “ bearer " or “ carrier " of an egoic center, or
“ ego
W hen w e call this H ierarchical W ondrous B eing our “ H ighest
Self " , we m ean that it is the P rim eval or Originating Seed from
w hich w e grow and d evelop into com posite entities, the im m ortal
divine part o f our nature and being. W e can consider it, in one
aspect, as a sheaf o f D ivine Light separating into innum erable
individuals or entities (M onads and M onadic R ays) in a M an-
194 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
vantara ; and when the Pralaya comes, again withdrawing and
drawn back into Itself, enriched and ennobled, however, through
its countless Hosts of Manifested Monads and Monadic Rays,
with the individualizing experience that these latter have gained ;
because, though at first unconscious “ god-sparks ", they are
now self-conscious divinities. The innumerably various individual
consciousnesses increase in power and glory and self-cognition by
means of the life and lives through which It (and they) have
passed. Hence the Wonder-Teaching flowing forth from this.
Listen carefully:
Last spring, it will be remembered, by the Teacher’s in­
structions, we pointed out that the one end and aim of all Man-
vantaric Evolution is the raising of the mortal into Immortality ;
and we mentioned as an illustration of the idea the beautiful
Invocation of Katherine Tingley, our present Teacher, " that
from the corruptible I may become Incorruptible; that from
darkness I may go forth in Light That, indeed, is the aim and
end of Kosmic evolution. Have we reached as yet such a state,
you and I ? We have n ot; and our immortality as men is non­
existent or rather conditional, and will so be until we have
" raised the corruptible into Incorruptibility ” ,
In order to make things more clear, please note the following :
No Student or Hearer of these Studies should feel discouraged
at what may seem to him to be the “ confusion ” caused by using
such words as “ spiritual ” , " divine ", " Wondrous Being ” ,
" the One ” , ‘‘ hierarchy ” , and many more, in various places
which seem different from other places or conditions. The fact
is, that such usage is really unavoidable. No European language
has evolved terms or expressions suitable to these majestic and
often (to us) complex doctrines ; and hence a speaker is obliged
to do the best he can in this respect. But please mark this w ell:
There need be no confusion whatsoever, and in time there will be
none, if the student or reader will constantly bear in mind the
following facts. The entire framework of Kosmos, or Nature, is
builded throughout in scalar fashion, and on " correspondences ”
and " repetitives ” ; so that, actually, the same descriptive words
are properly applied to any theme of a repetitive character ; for
the reason that there are no " absolutes ” anywhere, and every­
thing is strictly “ relative ” to everything else. The only differ­
ences are those of evolutionary development; and the relative
and varying greater or less degree in which " spirit ” or " matter ”
is evolved or manifesting. The “ divine ” of one Hierarchy is
actually ” grossest matter ” to another far superior Hierarchy;
but within one and the other the “ repetitive ” rules apply very
strictly; because Kosmos or Nature follows one General
Course and One " Law ” , and has one general and throughout-
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 195
repeated course of action, which applies as strictly and fully to a
Kosmos as to the less kosmos, the Atom.
Hence, the " Wondrous Being ” of our own Planetary Spiritual-
Psychological Hierarchy of Adepts, etc., is a correspondence in
small of the Kosmical One of the Universal Kosmical Hierarchy
of the Solar System, etc.
Bearing this rule ever in mind, confusion will gradually fade
away into dazzling light of Illumination. It is well worth trying !
Some perhaps may think it a remarkable thing that in our last
two studies we contrasted the case of the " lost soul ” with the
case of the Children of this Wondrous Being— the Buddhas.
Naturally the former are the other or nether pole of the Buddhas ;
as these “ lost souls ” are, like the Buddhas, cases of extreme
rarity of occurrence. In our present state of evolution, in which
these " lost souls ” occur, equally rare is the other occurrence :
the raising of the mortal into Immortality, of the corruptible
into Incorruptibility.
Let us go into this a little farther. What is it that is “ lost ” ?
It is the “ soul ” . Now what is “ soul ” ? As I have explained
before, by our use it is a vehicle on the higher planes manifesting
as a sheaf or pillar of light; and on the lower planes, depending
upon the spirituality of the plane, or its materiality, a more or
less physically corporeal body. These “ souls ” in all cases are
living, more (or less) conscious, sentient entities ; living beings ;
composite ; each one of them composed of innumerable multitudes
of less (inferior) entities, as our body itself is composed of quasi­
infinite numbers of atomic cosmoi, tiny cosmoses, minute
universes.
Now such a soul becomes " lost ” , annihilated truly, when it
has lost its touch or rather union with that which gives it immor­
tality— or the promise of it. For, if and when, the impulse, all
impulses or aspirations, towards the indwelling divinity, towards
its closer union therewith, have faded out or ceased completely,
then there is nothing left in it to hold it together, for it is wholly
a compounded thing, as said before, and it then disintegrates,
falls to pieces, as the physical body will disintegrate in the fire,
or in the earth. What then happens to the immortal Monad
which had informed it ? Its career in that vehicle is violently
checked. The course of nature, of destiny, in that particular
instance, has been violated and interrupted. Yet all the previous
spiritual gleanings from the former lives of that Monad in other
former vehicles, still remain ; and, after a certain period, it (the
Monad) shoots forth another Ray, another E go; although the
page of the " lost soul ” remains blank, so to say— it is, as it
were, non-existent, completely wiped out. Immortality has no
record of it. It is truly a terrible thing, not only spiritually, but
196 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
for the higher soul, the spiritual ego, itself (see diagram p. 203).
I cannot say more of this at present.
On the contrary, on the other side, when once in many, many
generations the Flower of Spirituality blooms full in a Soul, and
mortality is raised into Immortality, we have the opposite case :
a Master is born, consciously immortal, linked for ever with his
Higher Individual Self. As the one case is one pole, so is the other
case the other pole of Nature’s course.
But when the former soul is “ lost ” , there is then for it no
more pain, no more sorrow; it is wiped out, and vanishes, even
as a shadow which passes along a wall and is gone.
Now listen ! Modern science tells us in its hypotheses built
upon its new recent discoveries, that every physical atom is
composed first, of a central nucleus which is called a “ proton ” ;
and, second, that around it go circling, cycling, revolving—
precisely as the planets and many comets in the solar system
do around the sun— other corpuscular bodies called “ electrons
We will use these facts as illustrative of our theme because the
conception is so closely similar in outline to that of the Ancient
Wisdom. The next idea to grasp is that mere bulk, mere magni­
tude, is no proof or criterion of greatness, either in spiritual
grandeur or in physical power. The fact is that every atom in
the manifested universe is a " bearer ” and a " carrier ” of lives.
Our bodies are actually composed and builded up of innumerable
hosts of such atoms, every one a miniature cosmos or solar system,
every one of them carrying its hosts of astral-psychic and even
spiritual infinitesimals. Over all, through all, permeating all,
controlling all, giving connected and inhering life to all, are the
predominant life, power, and characteristic of our own personality,
of our own personal ego as man ; the Paramatman, the spiritual
Self, the “ Father in Heaven ” of these infinitesimal beings.
We are not necessarily greater in essence than any one unit of
these innumerable hosts of infinitesimals which live, and move,
and have their being, in one or another or another or another
atom of our body. There may be entities among them very much
farther advanced than we are, paradoxical as the statement may
sound; and therefore I repeat: “ Break the molds of your
minds ; let in the light! ” Because a thing may be strange to
the mind and because it may sound new, is it therefore necessarily
untrue ? How dare you or I or anyone say : “ This or that is the
only truth, the only thing that can be ? ” What is the criterion
of truth here ? What, indeed, is truth, as judged by such
standards ?
Let us go a step farther. In our body, or, for instance, in its
organs: the heart, the liver, the brain, and others, each one
receiving from the predominant personal ego of the man certain
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 197
particular rays of force, and each one a kosmical universe or a
universal kosmos for the hosts of atomic infinitesimals composing
i t ; in this connexion, I say, has it ever struck you, has it ever
occurred to you, that our solar system is such an atomic
infinitesimal as compared with the Universal Kosmos; formed
of its proton the Sun, and of its electrons the planets, each planet
bearing its hosts of lives, and forming a part of the vehicle or
body, if you will, of some immense Titanic Entity, utterly
beyond our sphere of comprehension ? “ God ” ? But why
“ God ” ? What assurance have we that such a Titanic Entity
is better than you or I, as “ God ” is supposed to be ? Mere
magnitude or bulk, mere material magnitude, is absolutely no
criterion of anything. Our picture may or it may not be true.
But the point to get here is this, that as our body is held together
by the forces driving through it, and coming from us, secreted
and excreted by you and by me ; so does the One of the Universal
Kosmos— or of any inferior Hierarchy to it— send forth and
control the many. Thus, then, the Universal Kosmical " Won­
drous Being ” is our Highest Self; which in no way whatever
contradicts or interferes with the other fact, that each one of us has
his own monadic Higher Self, a Spark thereof, destined in its turn
to become in future Manvantaras, the Highest Self of a Kosmos !
Profound, sublime thought! And the Wondrous Being of inferior
scope and splendor, who is the Root-Base of our own Planetary
Spiritual-Psychological Hierarchy of Adepts, a miniature as it
were of the Kosmical, is the one spoken of in the passage of The
Secret Doctrine which forms our present theme.
Promises made on the Teacher’s instructions, in our School, are
sacred. Following those instructions, it was promised in the
spring of last year that it would be our duty, if these meetings
were continued, to simplify and if possible to explain and illustrate
to the best of our ability— and no man can do more— the Esoteric
Wisdom as it was secretly taught in the ancient sanctuaries,
universally over the archaic world, and as it is taught to-day, as
far as we know it, by our own Masters and their representatives,
for that Wisdom is one, the same ages ago as now ; the same on
another planet as here. There cannot be two Truths in the
universe. That promise has been carried out, up to the present
time, under great difficulties, not the least of which is that the
Teacher’s instructions were that these studies should be con­
ducted in such fashion that when the time came for their publica­
tion, no one reading them shall comprehend or shall receive the
full key, excepting only those who have been initiated in this
group, or who are members of this School. “ Initiated ” means
those who have begun a study, as you and I are " beginners ” , who
have begun this sublime study; and our older students here
198 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
know it well, for doubtless they have the key to understand it.
They have received their esoteric instructions, which enable
them to follow the threads of our difficult themes; but one
" outside ” could not do so. And this may be said, that upon
looking over the stenographic reports of such of our studies as
we have been enabled to obtain and correct, very few changes
were required to render the thought closed to outsiders, at least
in part. Those changes which are required are simply in order
better to illustrate meanings, or changes of the phrasing, or the
choice of a more appropriate and clearer word. So far, then, our
task has been successful.
Now, the Hierarchical Wondrous Being has been deliberately
spoken of in our last two studies and also in this our present
study, as an Entity, because, generalizing the conception, it is
an Entity. But there are three forms in which, or planes upon
which, this Entity manifests; and for the sake of perspicuity
and convenience, just here, we are going to use the Buddhist
phraseology, the phraseology of Buddhism and Tibet, as expressed
in the Sanskrit language. The highest aspect, or the highest
sub-Entity of the Wondrous Being is called Adi-Buddha, ddi
meaning primeval (or the highest). This Adi-Buddha is in the
Dharma-kaya-state— you all know what this word means : a
Sanskrit compound of two words meaning the “ Continuance-
Body ” , sometimes translated equally well— or ill— the “ Body
of the Law ” , both very inadequate expressions, for the difficulty
in translating these extremely mystical terms is very great; a
mere “ correct ” dictionary translation misses the esoteric
meaning entirely; and just there is where Occidental scholars
make such ludicrous errors at times. The first word comes
from the root Dhri, meaning to support, to sustain, to carry, to
bear; hence to continue; also human laws are the agencies
supposed to carry, support, sustain, civilization ; the second
element, kdya, means “ body ” ; the noun thus formed may be
rendered the “ body of the Law ” , but this phrase does not give
the idea at all. It is that spiritual body or state of a high spiritual
being in which the sense of soulship and egoity has vanished
into a universal (hierarchical) sense, and remains only in the
seed, i.e., latent— if even so much. It is pure consciousness, pure
bliss, pure intelligence, freed from all personalizing thought.
The second aspect or sub-Entity is called the Dhyani-Buddha,
" Contemplation-Buddha ” , a great descent from the former, so
far as mere impersonal spirituality goes. This is carried by the
Sambhoga-kaya, two Sanskrit words meaning “ Enjoyment-
Body ” , or rather “ Participation-Body ” , because the Buddha
in the Sambhoga-kaya state still participates in, still retains, its
consciousness as an individual, its egoship and its soul, though it is
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y 199
still too far above m aterial or personal concerns to care abou t or
to m eddle w ith them ; and therefore it w ould be powerless here
on our m aterial earth. A s H . P. B lavatsky once said, a god from
the spheres celestial, living solely in its ow n nature, and w ithout
a m aterial b o d y to m anifest in m aterial spheres, w ould be utterly
powerless there.
The third, and low est, yet in one sense the highest aspect or
su b-E n tity (highest on account o f the imm ense, willing, self-
sacrifice in volved in its incarnation in hum an flesh) is the
M anusha-Buddha, m eaning “ hum an B uddha ” , because born
in a hum an b o d y for com passionate w ork am ong m en. The
M anusha-Buddha at will or need, lives and w orks in the N irm ana-
kaya, “ F orm -B od y ” , about w hich a very w onderful doctrine
exists, to be explained later.
N ow , the D hyani-B uddhas are one o f the ten classes o f beings
w hich cam e to our globe from the preceding P lanetary M an-
vantara. Shortly, we will recite them , as fo llo w s : three E le­
m ental K ingdom s, the lo w e st; the M ineral-K ingdom ; the Plant-
K in gdom ; the B east-K ingdom . I pause a m om ent in order to
m ake a rem ark. Please d o n ot say “ anim al ” in this connexion.
W e m ust have precision here. “ A nim al ” m eans any being
which has an anima, or vital soul. Man is an “ anim al ” in that
sense, but he is not a “ beast ” . H is vital-astral-physical b o d y
is a “ beast ” , and he w orks in and w ith a hum an soul through
a beast- or vital, soul, enlightened b y a spiritual Soul. W e hope
to have tim e later to illustrate this point m ore fully this evening.
Then another K in gd om after the B e a st-K in g d o m : the
M anush a-K ing dom or H um an-K ingdom . So far, then, we have
three E lem ental K ingdom s, 3 ; then the m ineral, 4 ; plant, 5 ;
beast, 6 ; hum an, 7. Then begin the D hyan-C hohans o f three
classes. Man in his higher nature is an em bryo D hyan-C hohan,
an em bryo " L ord o f M editation ” . It is his destiny, if he run
the race successfully, to blossom forth at the end of the seventh
R ou nd , as a “ L ord o f M editation ” ; if you like, as a spiritual
Planetary, or a Planetary Spirit, when this planetary m anvan-
taric kalpa is ended, this D a y o f Brahm a, which are the seven
R ou nds in seven stages each. B u t there are three classes of
D hyan-C hohans, as s a id ; these three classes in their turn are
each d ivided into seven, as you know . N ow of these three the
low est class being d ivided into seven, o f these seven the fourth
is that D hyan-C hohan w h o is our " G od in H eaven ” , for this
Fourth Round. Its spiritual Prim ary is the A di-B u ddh a o f the
Fourth Round. It itself is a D hyani-B uddha. L et us try to m ake
this clearer. On each planet or globe of the seven globes form ing
the Planetary Chain, as the L ife-W ave touches it in a R ou nd —
and sim ilarly through all the seven R ounds— there is evolved, or
200 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
rather appears, a B uddha, it m ight b e better to say a MahiL-
B u d d h a ; one at the com m encem ent o f a globe's awakening to
life a g a in ; and another M aha-B uddha when the L ife-W ave
leaves the planet after com pleting its R ou n d there. Likewise,
for each R ace during such a globe-R ou n d there appears another
B uddha, w ho, so to say, is a R a y from the M aha-B uddha o f the
planet, and is called the R ace-B uddha ; and he in his turn, at the
m iddle o f the R ace, or when the central poin t o f the race is
nearing, overshadow s a chosen hum an vessel o f p urity and
n obility, or spiritual grandeur, this last becom ing the B uddha
preparing the spiritual w ay for the great R ace-B u ddh a o f the
succeeding R oot-R a ce, w ho appears shortly before the close o f
the preceding R oot-R a ce. Such a one (as this last) was the
L ord Sakyam uni, G autam a-B uddha, o f w hom we spoke during
our last study, w ho is now living on earth, as the Teachers tell us,
a N irm anakaya. A N irm anakaya is the low est o f the three
m ystical vehicles, as we explained a little while ago. It exists in
seven degrees or kinds, the low est being the case where the en tity,
the spiritual entity, retains all his hum an principles except the
physical b od y . All. H e is a m an in every respect, except for the
physical b od y , w hich he has discarded.
N ow all these B uddhas,— and w e have n o tim e this evening to
illustrate the w onderful m ysteries con n ected w ith this doctrine,
n o tim e this evening, at least— all these B uddhas o f a R o u n d
derive from the D hyani-B uddha o f th a t R o u n d . T h ey form part
o f the spiritual-psychological H ierarchy o f th a t R o u n d . It is this
D hyani-B uddha, o f our F ou rth R ou nd , our " Father in H eaven " ,
w ho is the “ W on drou s B eing " , the Great Initiator, the Sacrifice,
spoken o f before. The nam e and titles are som etim es likewise
applied to that spiritual E n tity, the R ace-B u ddh a, w ho com es
sh ortly before or at the beginning o f a R oot-R a ce ; and w ho at
certain epochs during the course o f that R ace, chooses a fit
hum an vehicle, usually one o f the Great Lodge, overshadow s
this chosen vessel or incarnates in it, as the case m ay be—
depending u pon the m ateriality o f the R ace and R ou n d and
m an y oth er factors— and so overshadow ed the Chosen Vessel
becom es the Manusha— or hum an Buddha. Strictly speaking,
the R ace-B u ddh a him self is a Manusha, or hum an B uddha, also.
A s rem arked before, p rob ab ly none of these titles or nam es are
hard and fast as lim ited to one sole en tity ; th ey are often applied,
m u ta tis m u ta n d is , to m ore than one sole E n tity or class. This is
extrem ely suggestive.
It is in this m anner that this su bject o f the “ W on drou s B eing " ,
w hich seems so intricate, bu t w hich is actually so sim ple, is
explained. It seems intricate on account o f its subtilty, bu t
it is very sim ple indeed. It is our brain-m inds o f m atter w hich
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 201
prevent us from seeing it easily and clearly. The Ray running
through all our individual being, from which we draw our spiritual
life and spiritual sustenance, comes direct to us from this Hier­
archical Wondrous Being in whom we all are rooted. He to us,
psychologically and spiritually, holds exactly the same place
that the human ego, the man-ego, holds to the innumerable
multitudes of Elemental entities which compose his body—
atomic infinitesimals, before referred to, are not meant here.
But listen:
The analogy is correct also in this respect, that if we made it
universal, kosmic, we would say that that Inexpressible One,
which is the Utmost of the Utmost, and the Inmost of the
Inmost, of our Kosmical Universe, comprising the greatest
boundaries of the Milky W ay: corresponds to all within the
Milky Way as our human ego corresponds to the infinitesimal
atomic universes which compose its own physical body. The
symbology is there; the correspondence is there ; and it is by
the correspondence that we are striving to explain somewhat of
the Mystery, how the One becomes the Many ; not because the
One " descends into matter ” or becomes “ many ” materially
and literally. Not at all. But in the same way that the sun is
an immense and exhaustless reservoir of vital, psychic, and
spiritual rays, sending them out through billions of years,
exhaustlessly ; in the same way this Hierarchical Wondrous
Being of Kosmic magnitude, through Its inferior but high Wondrous
Beings of various degrees, enlightens us and uplifts us and inspires
us, and leads us onward and upward towards immortality, for
aye doing its best, through Its own spiritual Ray within us, to
illumine and lighten our material corruptibility, in order to make
it incorruptible ; that from Personality we may enter Individu­
ality ; " that from darkness, we may go forth in Light! ” And
the time will come when we shall do this Work and become
incorruptible consciously, working with Nature and becoming
one with her ; for, just as this Wondrous Being is the foundation-
force back and behind of all that we call Nature, so that same
Wondrous Being in far-gone former Manvantaras was then a
Man, even as you and I now are. Such we shall also become,
if we run the Kosmic race successfully! Wonderful, inspiring
thought!
Now, I wish to read a citation from our present Teacher,
Katherine Tingley, taken from one of her recent lectures, because
it is so appropriate to our present studies on this point, that if we
come here with pure hearts and a sincere motive, learning from
each other in the spirit of true comradeship and brotherly love,
we shall all get something high and fine, something to urge us
upward and onward. It will be a holy thing, a benediction. I
202 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
tell you, the opening of these studies by our Teacher has a deeper
meaning than appears on the surface. She has told you herself
that the time had not before come when we could study together,
and that each one takes from these meetings what he wills to
take. Listen : " A man gets what he works for, and if he does
not work for it, he does not get it. But when one wants truth so
much that he is actually hungry for it, he gets it. It is the wine
of life, so to speak, the revelation of the book of life. No language
can describe it ” . And again : “ Those who desire the truth,
those who have the courage to enter the new life, those who have
the desire to be reborn in a sense, must throw overboard every­
thing that has held them down in their limitations, in their doubts,
in their fears, their dislikes, and their passions. Man is a majestic
being if he knows his own spiritual nature, and works assiduously
to become that which he was intended to be ” .
We are cutting brief our lecture to-night; it is already very
long; we have still more to say, and our time for closing is
drawing near.
Another thought that must be hinted at tonight is, that our
wonderful book here, H. P. Blavatsky’s Secret Doctrine, is both
an exoteric book and an esoteric book. It contains doctrines
which were esoteric before this book was printed. Now they are
“ exoteric ” , But if anyone thinks— I never did, thank the
immortal Gods!— if anyone thinks that he knows The Secret
Doctrine by reading it once or even a dozen times, or a score of
times, he mistakes greatly the situation. It must be read not
only between the lines, but within the words. I have found the
value of the following rule : never take a single statement in it
and allow your mind to mold itself around it, never let a single
idea crystallize; break the molds, let in the light. It is an
excellent rule. As soon as a man says : " I have the truth. I
do not agree with such a one of our teachers : I think such and
such a teacher was wrong ” , look out for him, for he is probably
blind. The molds of his mind are crystallized, and he cannot see
the light.
I have learned these lessons, and I speak as a witness. Every
evening, before I go to sleep, I go over the events of the day, and
I try to find one or more things in which I have allowed my mind
to crystallize around a thought or a fa ct; and I am merciless to
myself if I catch it or them. Not for a minute do I temporize.
When I find molds of mind, I break them, for I know too well
what they mean.
These things, these thoughts that we study, are serious, there
is no playing with them ; it means going up or going down ; and
you have the choice of paths daily, momently, instantly. Forgive
me for seeming a bit personal. I do not mean that as a preach-
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 203
ment. I speak from my heart, for I have found the truth of what
I say, and its great value.
Now to illustrate by a diagram or paradigm this question of
souls and egos alluded to this evening :
Archetypal
World.
Divine Soul or
Monadic
Envelope.
Spiritual Soul
or Individual
Monad: Buddhi:
Fruit and Seed
of Manas.
Higher Human
Soul. Lower
Buddhi and
Higher Manas.
Human Soul, or
Man. Manas,
Kcima, and
Pr&na.
Beast-Soul, or
Vital-Astral
Soul: Kamaand
Prana.
Physical Soul or
Body: Sthtila-
sartraand Prana
ancj Linga-
sarira.
Paramàtman
or Supreme
Self.
Atman,
Divine Ego.
Jivatman,
Spiritual Ego.
Bhtitatman,
Human Ego.
Prânâtman,
Personal Ego.
Beast-Ego.
Body.
Please note here what is intended to be an egg-shaped design.
It is not a graphic representation, that is, a picture; it is a
paradigm. A paradigm is a graphic symbol, but not a picture of
a thing.
Let the three parallel lines drawn above the egg represent, if
you will, the Arupa-world, the formless world; and the seven
planes comprised within the Egg, the Rupa-World, seven being
the number of the principles always in manifestation, held in union
as an individual by the Higher Triad, the arupa-triad, its Root
above.
Now, the three higher of the seven within the Egg are also
called Ardpa, ‘‘ formless ” , but only relatively so. Please remember
one of the first lessons of our Esoteric Wisdom: There are no
204 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
absolutes. We speak indeed of “ absolutes ” , but only as relative
" absolutes The popular, ordinary sense of this word as
'' limitless or endless completions ” , is utterly inadmissible, for
there are no absolutes, of that kind, for every thing is relative in
quality and space and time to some thing else, and it must be so
unless we cast logic and common sense to the winds.
Just think of i t : if any thing were “ Absolute ” in the old
popular sense, it would be everything, and there could be nothing
but that in manifestation, hence no change for betterment, no
progress, no evolution. Relativity— which means universally
occurring relationships in space and time— is the very heart of the
conception of the Kosmos as an aggregate of evolving entities, the
offspring of infinite Motion, infinite Life, infinite Progress always.
To continue our discussion of the paradigm: Now, through this
egg-shaped paradigm falls the Ray, from the Arupa-world,
represented by this vertical line signifying the Self, universally
manifesting in every atom it touches in this Kosmos,— and it
permeates them all— as the self individual, the self egoic, the
human self, the astral self, etc. These three highest divisions,
the Artipa-Triad, collectively are also called the Paramatman, a
Sanskrit word meaning the " Supreme Self ” , the Summit or
Flower of the Hierarchy, the Root-Base or Source of that Self.
Please always keep in mind that there is another Hierarchy above
our highest division, this division beginning with the lowest, the
" absolute matter ” , of that higher Hierarchy. Everything is
relative. “ Absolute matter ” even of our own Hierarchy would
be intangible, invisible, to us. Why ? Because our present
physical senses do not belong to its plane, and therefore have
not been trained by evolution to take cognisance of i t ; our senses,
eye-sight, smelling, tasting, hearing, touching, can cognise only
those things, and all those things, which they have been built to
cognise through experience in and through ourselves. We have
not descended in this Manvantara into the " absolute matter ” of
any other Hierarchy than our own; we have gone down only
as far as the stages of this Hierarchy would let us go. I do not
here mean our Kosmical Hierarchy. I do mean our Planetary
Hierarchy. Do not be absolute in the application of terminology,
for the reasons already set forth. We must, when we hear a
" Hierarchy ” spoken of, immediately question which one. When
we hear the " Self ” spoken of, we must immediately question
which one. When we hear the " soul ” spoken of, let us imme­
diately ask ourselves which soul. This is a safe rule and guide
to follow in interpretation of any and all passages.
Now, as just said, these three highest planes represented by
these three horizontal lines paradigmatically represent the
ParamStman or Supreme Self of the Hierarchy, in the Archetypal
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 205
W orld. I f you please, let this top m ost circle inside the E gg
represent the M onadic E n velop e or the D ivine Soul, w hich is
called, from another standpoint, the A tm an or D ivine E go. The
circle on the horizontal plane below the M onadic E n velope let
us call the Spiritual Soul or the Individu al M onad. T he Self
corresponding to it is the Jivatm an. N ext com es the third circle
in this E gg, and corresponding to it is the higher H um an Soul,
com posed o f the low er B u ddh i and the higher M a n a s; and the
Self corresponding to it is the B hutatm an, m eaning the “ Self of
that w hich has been " , or the R eincarnating E g o . The fourth still
low er, is the low er H um an Soul or Man, Manas and K am a ; and
the self corresponding to it is Pranatm an, or Personal E go. The
n ext circle, still low er— grow ing progressively darker like all the
others, w hich I have attem pted to illustrate b y increasing the
shading— is the B east-Soul, K am a-Prana. A n d the self corre­
sponding to it m ay be sim ply called the B east-E go. F inally, the
low est “ soul " o f all, is the physical b o d y or “ sou l." R em em ber
that the w ord “ s o u l" , in our ancient W isdom , m eans “ vehicle " ;
and, o f course, this low est vehicle, the physical b od y , also com ­
prehends the Prana, and the Linga-§arira or M od el-body w hich
is its backgrou n d and seed and root. These three are inseparable.
N ow please n otice in this diagram the role played b y the Self,
represented roughly b y the line drop ped from the highest and
running through and perm eating all the planes below its A rch e­
typ al Origin. I wish to call to you r attention the fact that n ot
m erely P lato, bu t the entire Greek school of m ystic philosophies,
spoke of the Self as im m anent in K osm os, and as a Sacrifice,
w hich Christian m ystics call som etim es the 44Christ crucified in
m atter " ; and, if we care to m ake the application to the exoteric
Christian religion o f the doctrine o f the W ondrous B eing w hich
we have been studying, we shall discover that the w hole Christian
m ythos or story was actually draw n from it, the entire thing, and
distortedly called the “ incarnation of the L ogos " . In old Greek
p hilosoph y, the w ord “ logos " was used in m any w ays, w hich the
Christians sadly m isunderstood. T he D hyan-C hohan, of w hich
we have spoken this evening, is our spiritual logos, the Planetary
L ogos, so f a r a s th is F o u r t h R o u n d i s co n cern ed . The spiritual
en tity behind the sun is the Solar L ogos o f our Solar System .
Sm all or great as every Solar System m ay be, each has its ow n
L ogos, the Source or Fountainhead of alm ost innum erable logoi
o f less degree in that system . E very m an has his ow n spiritual
logos ; every atom has its ow n logos ; every atom has its ow n
Param atm an and M ulaprakriti, for every en tity everyw here has
its ow n highest. These things and the w ords w hich express them
are relative. B ulk and m agnitude have nothing w hatsoever to
d o w ith i t ; it is quality, s p ir it u a l q u a lity , w hich is the true
206 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
criterion. This is a great and useful thing to rem em ber. I have
found inestim able help in that one rule.
W e have on ly a few m inutes m ore of tim e this evening. I have
been asked b y the Teacher, briefly to speak o f another m atter,
and that is in con n exion w ith the recurring cycles o f the year, and
especially as regards the N ew Y ear. H . P. B lavatsky som ewhere,
I think it was in an old issue of her m agazine L u c ife r at the begin­
ning o f the N ew Y ear o f 1890, says, am ong oth er things in a very
interesting article, that Theosophists and E sotericists particularly
should h old the fourth d ay o f January as the beginning o f the
N ew Y ear. N ow that is an extrem ely interesting s ta te m e n t;
and in general con n exion w ith it, I wish to call you r attention
to one very im portant fact, w hich is that our E soteric W isdom is
based entirely on N ature and her fundam ental operations.
N ature, as w e understand that w ord, does n ot m ean on ly the
physical, visible universe. T hat is m erely the shell or b o d y of
N ature the R eal. N ature, w ith us, as has been often stated
before, m eans the e n tire aggregate o f ev ery th in g th a t is , inw ards and
outw ards, o f all planes in all spheres throughout the B oundless.
N ow the significance o f this in the present con n exion is that the
esoteric m eth od o f reckoning tim e is a natural m eth od— based
w h olly on recondite operations o f N ature. It is n ot an artificial
m ethod. Y ou w ill find that none o f the real anniversaries in our
S chool is based on m an-m ade ideas or on chance, such as the
artificial schem e used b y the French during the French R ev olu ­
tion, for instance ; or dating from the founding o f a city, like
R om e, for instance ; or from the death of som e great m an, like
Jesus, for instance. Such m ethods, as a m atter of fact, are un­
know n in the E soteric C h ro n o lo g y ; though parallels d o exist,
bu t are based on natural cycles. The A ncient W isdom bases all
its ch ron ological reckonings upon the kosm ic clock w hich N ature
gives us, and w hich is m ajestic, infallible, and a perfect tim e­
keeper. T hat clock is the heavenly v a u lt ; and the sun, the m oon,
the seven planets (as the ancients reckoned them ), and the stars,
are the “ hands " m arking tim e-cycles. T he year m ostly used
in reckoning tim e, b y the ancients, is w hat astronom ers call the
0 tropical y e a r " , so called from the change of the seasons.
W in ter, spring, sum m er, a u tu m n ; w inter, spring, sum m er,
autum n ; recurring regularly ; and recurring regularly because
based on the m ovem ent o f the earth around the sun, like a hand
on the dial o f the kosm ical clock. The so-called anom alistic year
and the sidereal year were b oth know n to ancient astronom y,
bu t were n ot used except for purely astronom ical (not astro­
logical) calculations, or on ly rarely for astrological reckoning.
M ark the difference betw een a strolog y and a stro n o m y . A s­
tron om y is the science o f the m ovem ents, and the relations to
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y 207
each other, o f the stars and planets. T hat is all. It sim ply tells
us w hat th ey are m ade of, where they m ove, and when th ey
m ove, and how long it takes them to m ove along certain orbits or
paths, and is purely exoteric. B ut “ astrology ” , m ind you ,
w hich m eans the sc ie n c e of the stars (while “ astronom y ” prou d ly
calls itself the " Law o f the Stars ” ), just as " geology ” m eans
the sc ie n c e o f the earth : ancient astrology, m ind you — not the
pasteboard-science w hich passes under that nam e to-day, but the
ancient spiritual-astral astrology, a true and p rofou n d w isdom
about the evolu tion o f divin ity into and through m atter, and
about the hum an soul and the hum an spirit— taught the science
o f the relations o f the parts o f K osm ic N ature am ong them selves,
and m ore particularly as that science applied to m an and his
destiny as tim ed b y the celestial orbs. F rom that great and noble
science sprang up, as said, an exoteric pseudo-science, derived
from the M editerranean and Asian practice, eventuating in the
m odern schem es o f so-called “ a stro lo g y ” — a p oor, degraded,
and w orn-out rem nant o f A ncient W isdom .
N ow , all nations had w ays of reckoning the year and fixing the
beginning o f the year. N ot all nations put the opening o f the
year at the same date ; som e nations reckoned from the w inter
solstice, that is when the sun has attained its southernm ost
point, before beginning its slow course northw ards again. I am
speaking as an inhabitant of the northern hem isphere o f the
earth. O f course, in South A m erica and in lands below the
equator, the conditions are reversed. B ut now we are speaking
of the northern hem isphere. O ther nations reckoned the begin­
ning of the year at the sum m er-solstice, about June 21st or 22nd ;
while the w inter-solstice takes place on or about D ecem ber 21st.
O ther nations again reckoned the opening o f the year at the
spring equinox, M arch 21st or 22nd. O ther nations began the
reckoning o f the year at the autum nal equinox, six m onths later,
on Septem ber 21st or 22nd. The Jews, for instance, had tw o years :
a civil year, beginning in Septem ber, at the autum nal equinox,
and a religious year, beginning w ith the spring equinox. T h e
ancient G erm anic nations o f northern E urope before the tim e of
Caesar, began the year at the w inter-solstice, on D ecem ber 2 1 s t ;
the ancient Greeks began their year at different tim es of the
annual cycle, bu t m ost often , p robably, in the autum n ; and
the ancient R om ans began it in the spring. The ancient E gyptians
began it in the s u m m e r; and the ancient Persians, and the
Syrians, and other nations, had each its ow n period for opening
the year.
The M editerranean civilizations were already on the dow nw ard
path for m any centuries before w hat in E urope is popularly called
the year " 1 a.d.” T h ey were slow ly losing a great deal o f the
208 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
A ncient W isdom , and an understanding o f its great secrets, and
it was show n n ot m erely in the m anner in w hich the Eleusinian
M ysteries were m odified and changed, bu t also in the constant
shifting and rem odeling o f their calendars, and in their m ethods
o f com pu tin g tim e, o f calculating ch ron ological periods, the
beginnings and ends o f various cycles, etc. T h e R om an s were
particularly blam ew orthy in this regard. T h ey were perhaps
w orse in that respect than any other nation know n to us. If
som e d ictator or political chieftain w ished to have a few days
m ore o f pow er, or to prevent or to postpon e an election, he w ould
begin to m eddle w ith the Calendar, a course o f con d u ct carried on
w ith the con n ivance or through the ignorance or negligence o f the
Pontiffs. A n d so finally it cam e abou t that, on accou n t of the
disorder o f the Calendar, at the tim e o f Julius Caesar— to be
exact in the year 4 6-47 b.c.— the calends o f January, that is the
first d ay o f January, fell on the d ay o f the season w hich now
corresponds to the 13th o f O c to b e r ; and if the confusion had
con tin u ed indefinitely, the first o f January w ould in due course
have taken place in all the m onths o f the year, w andering through
them , and finally com pletin g its course around the year som ew here
in M arch, h avin g com pleted the cycle. It should be added that
the old standard R om an year was lunar, consisting o f abou t
354 days.
Julius Caesar deserves credit for having stopp ed this confusion
b y his reform ation o f the R om an Calendar. I d o n ot m ean to say
th at Caesar d id it all h im se lf; he d id n o t ; for though he was a
clever m an and an am ateur astronom er, y et he had the services
o f an E gyp tian — or A lexandrian Greek— astronom er, a m an o f
great ability, called S osigen es; and in the year 47 B.c., when,
as I say, the calends o f January, the first d ay o f January, fell on
w hat w ou ld n ow be the 13th o f O ctober— just ex a ctly as if our
ow n " first o f January " this year h ad occu rred tw o or three
m onths before in th e late autum n, on the se a so n -d a y p rop erly
belon gin g to the 13th o f O ctober— these tw o em inent gentlem en—
or perhaps three, if we include M. F lavius— put th eir heads
together and shuffled the Calendar into con form ity w ith the
seasons again. Caesar was P on tifex M axim us at that tim e, and it
was his d u ty to take charge o f or oversee the correct com pu tin g o f
ch ron ological periods, etc. This he did, inserting tw o extra
m onths (one to have 33 days and the second 34 days) betw een
N ovem ber and D ecem ber o f th at year, 47, and adding an inter­
calary period or " m onth ” o f 23 days to the preceding F ebru ary,
m aking an addition o f 90 days to that year in ord er to harm onize
the Calendar w ith the seasons. T h at year, then, was 445 days
lon g ; and because it was such a lon g year, and ord in ary people
were so puzzled as to the w ay in w h ich business, etc., w as goin g to
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y 209
be done, it was called the “ Y ear o f Confusion ” , b u t M acrobius
neatly calls it the “ la st year of confusion ” ! Then Caesar fixed
the new Calendar to have a m ean year o f 365^ days, w ith a leap-
year each fourth year o f 366 days ; an arrangem ent that has
lasted to our ow n tim e in Europe, but slightly m odified. This
arrangem ent o f the Calendar, o f course, abolished the old R om an
lunar year. B ut, instead o f beginning the year as he should have
done, according to the ancient reckonings, the old reckoning o f the
A ncient W isdom , at the beginning o f one o f the four sea so n s o f
the year, and w hen the m oon was new ; at the w inter-solstice, or,
if y o u please, at the spring equinox, or the autum nal, or the
sum m er-solstice,— if he had taken the old beginning o f the year
of his ow n people, the R om ans, as it had been before in the early
days, that is to say, on D ecem ber 21st, or 22nd, at the w inter-
solstice ; or at the spring equin ox in M arch, o f N u m a ; every­
thing w ould have been " all right ” . B ut now m ark w hat
happened. W atch carefully. H e had Sosigenes whispering in his
ear, and Sosigenes knew m ore than Csesar, bu t he forgot one little
thing. H e said, “ B rother Caesar, Im perator ! ” — This is an
im aginary conversation, but som ething like it, I think, m ust
have taken place— ” B rother Caesar, Im perator ! A ccord in g to
the old w ay, the w ay o f our noble ancestors, the year ought to
begin n ot m erely at the w inter-solstice but also at new m oon.
N ow the new m oon this year does n ot fall on the day w hen the
w inter-solstice takes place, but it falls seven days later, for the
solstice this year falls on D ecem ber 24th .” “ T hat is right ” , said
Caesar. " W e w ill begin the year seven days later than the
solstice. W e w ill call that d ay the calends of January ” , or, as
we should say, the first o f January. Caesar m ade D ecem ber to
have 30 days ; later changed to 31 days. A n d that is how our
habit o f putting the beginning o f the year on the first of January
instead o f on the day of the solstice, D ecem ber 21, arose. H ad
Caesar (he had it in his pow er to d o so as P on tifex M axim us)
proclaim ed in his E d ict that the Calendar as reform ed b y him
w ould com m ence running on the first occasion when the winter-
solstice and a new m oon coin cided ; or at one o f the other three
beginnings o f a Season w hich coin cided w ith a new m oon, it w ould
have been exa ctly right, according to the A ncient W isd o m ;
because, m ark you , all these ancient m ethods o f chronological
reckoning were not based m erely on the fact o f som ebody founding
a city , or on the fact o f som ebod y happening to die on a certain
day, bu t on co-ordin ated astronom ical and terrestrial events.
The ancient m ethods were based on th e tim e-dial of the K osm os.
Csesar should have w aited till a new m oon coincided w ith one o f
the tw o solstices, or w ith one o f the tw o equinoxes, beginning the
N ew Y ea r at the m om ent the m oon was new on that night.
2 io FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
E viden tly, Caesar felt that he cou ld n ot w a it ; or, perhaps, did
n ot desire to w a it ; or d id n ot k n o w .
N ow , then, as tim e w ent on and C hristianity in later years
cam e into vogue, people naturally kept the beginning o f the year
as on January first, the m on th -day established in the Julian
C a len d a r; bu t finally the Christians began to think that they
ou gh t to have their ow n d ay for beginning the new year in a
religious sense, con n ected w ith the supposed birth o f Jesus ; and
so, early in the h istory o f Christianity, eastern Christians took the
12th d a y after D ecem ber 25, the 6th o f January, in celebration
o f the m ystical epiphany and birth (and baptism ) o f Jesus. It was,
in a religious sense, the beginning o f their year. The English call
this festival “ T w elfth D a y ” , as bein g the tw elfth day after
D ecem ber 25th. W h at a curiously confused mess o f ancient ideas
and new dogm as ! H is “ birth -d ay ” was later transferred to
D ecem ber 25.
N ow w h y was the 6th o f January chosen, instead o f the 4th ?
F or this reason. T h e w inter-solstice, when Caesar and Sosigenes
m ade their corrections o f the Calendar, according to their correc­
tions was m ade to fall on the 24th o f D ecem ber. T h e n e x t n ew
m o o n fell, then, on the first o f January, w hich was w h y Caesar
said the new year was to begin on that day, the “ calends o f
January ” . Then, m any years later, 14 days after the d ay w hich
the Christians thought the solstice, in their tim e, D ecem ber
23-24, D ecem ber then having 31 days and n ot 30 days, as
arranged b y Caesar, was the sixth o f January, w hich the Chris­
tians called the “ E piphany ” , cop yin g an ancient pagan w ord and
idea. " E piphan y ” is a Christian w ord w hich originally belonged
to the M ysteries o f the o ld pagan Greek religion, and to the
A ncient W isdom ; it m eans, “ appearance ” o f a god, and was
adopted and adapted to the Christos-m ythos.
N ow let us return to H . P. B lavatsky and her article in L u c ife r ,
m entioned before. W e see that calendars can be changed ; that
calendars can be m ade b y m e n ; that the R om an Calendar was
also changed and was m ade b y m en ; and that the Julian
Calendar, w ith m odifications, has com e dow n to us, and is the
one used in E urope and A m erica to-d a y. It is no proper calendar
for Theosophists and especially for Esotericists to use, in order
to com pute the esoteric cycles or the beginning o f the true
esoteric year.
W h y did H . P. B lavatsky ch oose the fourth o f January o f the
current Calendar for the beginning o f the esoteric year ? Listen,
Com rades. The true E soteric Y ear should begin on the 14th d ay
after the w inter-solstice, p rovided that the w inter-solstice coincide
w ith a new m oon . The 14th day thereafter, w ould, o f course, be
a full-m oon d ay. The d ay o f the w inter-solstice cou ld be used as
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 211
a beginning o f the civil year, if so d e sire d ; and the 14th d ay
thereafter as the beginning o f the E soteric Y ear. Caesar, had he
w ished, or, rather, had he know n m ore, cou ld have so arranged
his Calendar to fit, either for the new m oon at a w inter-solstice
or a sum m er one, or at one o f the equinoxes. B ut H . P. B lavatsky
chose January 4, because it was the 14th day after the w inter-
solstice— n ot because it was the “ 4th ” — or any other m onth-day.
N ow January fourth is 14 days after the w inter-solstice on
D ecem ber 21st, and w hen coin cidin g w ith a full m oon, it is an
astrological date. It is not a m an-m ade date. It does n ot depend
upon a m an-m ade calendar. It falls fourteen days after the
festival o f the true w inter-solstice ; and when the w inter-solstice
also coincides w ith a new m oon, a secret cycle opens. P u t the
w inter-solstice where it belongs, and ten days w ill bring you to
the first o f January b y our present Calendar. N otice the num ber
ten. H . P. B lavatsky also says in her article that the celebration
o f the new year b y E sotericists, should be in con n exion w ith the
Budha-w isdom , a w ord com in g from the sam e root from w hich
Buddha, the L ord G autam a's title, was taken, the root m eaning
“ to awaken ” . N ow , again, w hat is Budha, from the sam e root ?
B udha is the Sanskrit nam e for the planet M ercury, w hich the
Greeks called H erm es, and the Latins M ercurius, and w hich m any
E uropean peoples, adoptin g the L atin nam e, call M ercury.
H erm es has alw ays been the particular overseer o f M ystics in
m any, perhaps all, nations. In ancient Greece, he was given the
titles o f “ P sych agog ” and “ P sych op om p ” , m eaning “ C on­
du ctor o f Souls ” to the " N ether W orld ” , likewise the M ysteries.
N o m atter w hat form the interpretation o f the A n cient W isd om
m ay have taken in ancient tim es, one invariably finds the planet
H erm es, or M ercury, associated closely w ith the teachings o f the
M ysteries dealing w ith the A fterw orld. In India, H erm es was
nam ed Budha, as just said ; and he was called the Son of Soma,
or the Moon.
F or instance, in H om er's Odyssey, you read h ow H erm es led the
souls o f the dead suitors, ” gibbering like bats ” , to the “ m eads
o f asphodel ” . B k. X X I V . This allusion to the w ork of H erm es
the P sych opom p , the “ H elper,” is a " m ystery ” w hich was
taken directly from the Eleusinian M ysteries, or, perhaps, from
still earlier M ysteries.
M ark then, that our new year should begin 14 days after the
w inter-solstice, provided that day is a Mercury‘day. N ow h ow are
we goin g to know w hether it is a M ercury-day or not ? " There
is the rub ” . H ave y ou any idea h ow the days o f the w eek cam e
to be nam ed in the order that th ey now have, and have had for
ages, in m any parts o f the w orld w idely separated from each
oth er ? W h y one d ay is called Sun's Day, and another Moon's
212 FUNDAM ENTALS OF T H E ESOTERIC PH IL O SO P H Y
Day, and another Tuesday— T iw 's (M ars's) D a y ? D o y ou know
the old A n glo-S axon nam es for these, b y the w ay ? W odnesdaeg,
W ednesday, for M ercu ry -d a y ; and Frigedaeg, F riday, or V enus-
D a y ; Thunresdaeg, Thursday, or Jup iter-day ; Saeternesdaeg,
Saturday for Saturn's day, and so forth . T h e system was as
follow s : T h e first hour o f a d ay beginning w hen the central point
o f the sun is on the eastern h orizon o f that day, accordin g to the
ancient system , it was said to be under the direct rule o f one o f the
seven sacred planets. N ow if the planet M ercury, for instance,
w as the one in con trol o f that first hour, the w hole d ay w hich
follow ed that first hou r was called M ercury-day. E v ery succeed­
ing hour o f that sam e day was said to be under the con trol o f one
or the other o f the seven planets, follow in g each other in a certain
order, as follow s : Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, Venus, M ercury,
M oon— the Sun and the M oon, how ever, bein g substitutes for tw o
secret planets. T h e d ay has 24 hours ; beginning w ith M ercury,
for instance, and cou n tin g the seven planets in the order just
given through all the 24 hours, w ou ld bring the 25th hour, w hich
is the first hour o f the next day, in w ith Jupiter in con trol, and
that d ay w ou ld then be T hursday ; and so on th roughout till we
com e to M ercury again— one w eek o f seven days. Y ou can easily
p rove this for yourself. A s regards the real esoteric B udha-day,
or W edn esday, or M ercury-day, I say here on ly this : If the
w inter-solstice is coin ciden t w ith a new m oon , plus something
else, that day is a real astrological Budha-day ; and, o f course,
14 days later, or tw o weeks, is likewise a B u dh a-day, but at full
moon. V erb, sap !
N ow let us g o another step farther. T h e fourth o f January,
1890, fell on a Saturday, although H . P. B lavatsky, in that
article, had been speaking o f H erm es. B u t that was m erely
because she o f necessity used the w eek-nam es and m on th -days o f
the current Calendar, spoiled and ungeared as it is. S o it is
p erfectly ob viou s th at the year she is alluding to was the esoteric
astrological year, and n ot the popular one o f the current Calendar.
This m anner, above given, o f com pu tin g cycles o f tim e, follow in g
the h ou r o f the K osm ical C lock, is the one th at was alw ays
follow ed in the A n cient W isd om . T h ey rejected any other w ay,
because it is the m eth od or the w a y in w hich N ature herself w orks
in th e R ounds, in the R aces, in the K alpas, etc.
O ur tim e is ended for this evening. W e shall resum e at our
n ext m eeting the stu dy o f the W on drou s Being, w hich w e have
d one our best further to illustrate this evening b y taking the
further step forw ard that was prom ised.
CHAPTER XIX
THE SEVEN JEWELS AND THE SEVEN STAGES OF INITIATION.
These Portals lead the aspirant across the waters on " to the other shore."
Each Portal hath a golden key that openeth its gate; and these keys are :
1. Dana, the key of charity and love immortal.
2. &LA, the key of Harmony in word and act, the key that counterbalances
the cause and the effect, and leaves no further room for Karmic action.
3. Kshanti, patience sweet, that nought can ruffle.
4. VirAga, indifference to pleasure and to pain, illusion conquered, truth alone
perceived.
5. VIrya, the dauntless energy that fights its way to the supernal Truth, out
of the mire of lies terrestrial.
6. DhyAna, whose golden gate once opened leads the Naljor toward the
realm of Sat eternal and its ceaseless contemplation.
7. PrajnA, the key to which makes of a man a god, creating him a Bodhisattva,
son of the Dhy&nts.
Such to the Portals are the golden keys.
The Voice of the Silence (" The Seven Portals ”). Fragments from The
Booh of the Golden Precepts, selected and annotated by H. P. Blavatsky.
W
E resum e our studies this evening from the point at
w hich we left them last week, and the m ain tex t that
w e shall have to consider is that w hich was before
chosen, nam ely, on page 207 o f V olum e I o f T h e
Secret Doctrine, w hich has already been read tw ice, the part,
to w it, dealing w ith the “ E ver-livin g-H u m an -B an yan .”
A s ou r studies this evening w ill also include a paragraph on
page 424 o f the sam e volu m e, this latter I shall read. It is
Section X I I , called “ The T h eogon y o f the Creative G ods ” :
To thoroughly comprehend the idea underlying every ancient
cosm ology necessitates the study, in a comparative analysis, of all
the great religions of antiquity ; as it is only by this method that
the root-idea will be made plain. Exact science-—could the latter
soar so high, while tracing the operations of nature to their ultimate
and original sources— would call this idea the hierarchy of Forces.
The original, transcendental and philosophical conception was one.
But as systems began to reflect with every age more and more the
idiosyncrasies of nations ; and as the latter, after separating, settled
into distinct groups, each evolving along its own national or tribal
groove, the main idea gradually became veiled with the overgrowth of
human fancy. While in some countries the Forces, or rather the
intelligent Powers of nature, received divine honours they were hardly
entitled to, in others— as now in Europe and the civilized lands— the
very thought of any such Force being endowed w
ithintelligenceseem
s
absurd, and is proclaimed unscientific.
213
214 FUNDAM ENTALS OF T H E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
A s prelim inary to our observations to-n igh t, it seem s a bounden
d u ty to m ake one rem ark to the effect that the Teacher has told
m e that I am over-cautious, over-conscientious, and therefore too
apologetic in the m anner in w hich I have spoken. I recognize
th at the adm on ition is w ell-foun ded and perhaps needed. I am,
likewise, v ery grateful for the opening that it gives m e for som e­
w hat plainer and m ore direct speech. So hereafter, instead o f
speaking in a m anner so detached as to give the im pression that
anything said cou ld be considered b y anyone as “ apologetic ” ,
w e shall pursue a different tactic, follow a different tactic, and
declare, a ffirm ; and, if necessary, speak w ith the authority o f
ou r S ch ool behind us.
N ow then, first, has it ever occurred to us to consider, to ask,
w h y the doctrines w hich w e have been stu dyin g for th e past
m onths have alw ays been held so secret ? There are three
general reasons for this, tw o rather ; the third being a corollary
o f the second. T h e first is that these teachings have from tim e
im m em orial been considered the noble rew ard, the sublim e
rew ard, for those w ho give them selves heart and soul and irre­
trieva b ly to the Teachers and to the Terrestrial-Celestial B od y
that th ey represent. T hat is the less reason for the silence. The
greater is the follow in g, th at these doctrines from their v ery
nature bein g so abstruse, so subtil that our p oor m inds o f m atter
find difficulty in com prehending them , w ou ld alm ost o f necessity
be m isunderstood w ithout a prelim inary training and education.
It requires literally years o f stu dy and training to bring the m ind
in to such a state that it can receive these glorious teachings, these
sublim e doctrines that we have been studying, w ith som e m odicum
at least o f intelligent com prehension. If th ey were given out to
the w orld indiscrim inately, w hat w ould be the consequence ?
In tu itive bu t otherw ise untrained m inds w ould w orship our
Teachers, M asters, as gods ; or the stupid heads in the m ultitudes
w ou ld persecute them and try to d o them to death as " devils ” ,
w ere th ey to appear p u b licly and op en ly live am ong ordinary
m en. A n d a third p a rty o f the pu blic, the skeptics, w ou ld deride,
w ou ld m ock , n ot on ly the Teachers them selves bu t their h oly
M essage.
These rules o f secrecy are based on natural “ law ” , and on a
keen understanding o f the w orkings o f the hum an m ind. These
doctrines, F ellow -students, were form ulated in the daw n o f tim e
b y giant intellects, and b y god-like m inds. H e indeed m ust be
b lin d and perverse o f w ill w h o can look upon them after stu dy
and close exam ination as speculations or as m ere theorizings.
W h at a com plim en t was paid to H. P. B lavatsky b y those w ho
in their b lin d ignorance, said that she had invented them ! T h in k
o f w hat th at m eans, w hat a w onderful w om an, accord in g to them ,
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 215
she m ust have been 1 A n d obviou sly, the truth is the direct
contrary. D id she ever claim that they were originated and
form ulated b y her ? N o ; from the beginning she said : " I am
bu t a voice speaking for T hose w ho sent m e."
These reservations o f secrecy, caution, and prudence, are n ot
the singular and otherw ise unknow n rule of the Trans-H im alayan
S chool to w hich we belong. T h ey were the invariable rule o f all
the great M ystery-Schools o f past tim es. W h y, even in the latest
o f the exoteric faiths, in the Christian religion,— a p oor, tattered,
faded fragm ent o f the A ncient W isd om — you find the sam e thing,
and con ceived in w ords, b y the w ay, w hich are as unkind as it is
possible to pu t them in— alm ost cruel in the h aughty reserve that
th ey signify. Y et th ey are n ot so w hen prop erly understood.
I refer to certain w ords o f the so-called Jesus in the “ Serm on
on the M ount Y ou rem em ber them ? B ut let us read them .
These warnings were uttered b y the m yth ical Jesus in the
" Serm on on the M ount " ; and rem em ber, that Serm on is
prefaced b y the w ords o f explanation that he w ent u p on to a hill
in order to escape from the crow ds thronging and pressing him>
w hen he then called his disciples unto him and delivered unto
them , his disciples, the so-called “ Serm on on the M ount " ,
e v id e n tly a M y s te r y -te a c h in g . M ore o f this hid m eaning w e shall
p oin t ou t to you this evening. B u t here are the w arnings :
Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast your pearls
before the swine, lest haply they trample them under their feet, and
turn and rend you.
Ask, and it shall be given you ; seek, and ye shall find ; knock,
and it shall be opened unto you ; for every one that asketh receiveth ;
and he that seeketh findeth ; and to him that knocketh it shall be
opened.
Found in the so-called Gospel of M a tth ew ,
Chapter vii, verses 6-9.
Our E soteric S chool never used language o f that kind. It is
extrem ely d ou b tfu l if the real Jesus, the center around w hich
were collected the legends o f the m ystery-figure Jesus, ever used
them ; bu t th ey represent the spirit o f esotericism and are a true
ech o o f the esoteric m ethods o f the N ear E ast, leaving the fram e­
w ork o f the w ords aside. T h ey show the im m ense prudence and
cau tion that alw ays surrounded the givin g ou t o f any part o f
the ancient m ystery-teachings. F rom im m em orial tim e was it
alw ays so.
A n d, another thing. T h e penalty for betrayal o f the M ysteries,
in later tim es, was death. N ow , before w e can pursue our stu dy
this evening, we m ust explain that statem ent. N ever in any
circum stances has the pow er or the force o f the L odge, has the
216 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
hand o f a Teacher, been raised in violen ce or in hatred against a
betrayer, against the unfaithful, n o m atter how grave the crim e
m ight have been. T heir punishm ent w as in this : th ey were
left strictly to themselves ; and the inner penalty was the withdrawal
of the Deathless Watcher, the Higher Self within, w hich had been
consciously and successfully invoked upon entrance into the
M ysteries, and, in the higher degrees o f initiation had been faced,
literally face to face. The early and autom atic penalty was
inner death b y the soul-loss. The betrayer lost his soul. L et me
tell you further, in passing, that practically all the civil institu­
tions o f ancient tim es, punishm ents am ong others, were based
upon w hat took place in the M ystery-Schools. Such, for instance,
was the crucifixion o f the R om ans, taken direct from one o f the
cerem onies o f initiation, the “ M ystic D eath ” ; taken from it,
stolen from i t ; and m ade an instrum ent o f legal m urder b y the
State, in later, degenerate tim es. A nother instance, also taken
from the cerem ony o f the “ M ystic D eath ” , was the “ Cup ” ,
in In dia the S o m a d ra ft; in Greece we find Socrates punished b y
drinking from the Cup o f H em lock ; and w e are rem inded o f Jesus,
praying th at the " cu p ” m ight pass from him . N um erous other
very different instances cou ld be cited.
A n d sim ilarly in E gyp t and in oth er countries, when the
periods o f “ spiritual barrenness ” o f w hich P lato tells us, had
succeeded to the period o f “ spiritual fertility ” ; when those
periods cam e u pon the w orld, the State then undertook to punish
in its ow n nam e the betrayal o f the M ysteries, w hich b y those
tim es had becom e m erely a State-institution, and nothing m uch
else, m erely a part o f the religious establishm ent. T w o or three
instances have com e dow n to us so far as A thens in Greece alone
is concerned. One was Socrates, IV th -V th century B.c., w ho
unw ittingly betrayed som e o f the secrets o f the M ysteries ; and
despite his innocence o f conscious w rong-doing, th ey unw illingly
killed that great m an. A nother was the philosopher-poet
D iagoras, V th century B.c., w ho was accused o f im piety, of
so-called " atheism ” , and w h o fled from A thens. A third was the
dram atist-poet ¿Eschylus, V th century B.c., w h o had to flee to
Ita ly in order to escape death. H e was accused on the same
grounds, o f w hat was called profanation or im piety.
A nother instance w hich we m ight m ention, o f a quite different
typ e, is th at o f the w earing o f a crow n, or a diadem , b y civil
rulers, form ally enacted in the “ coronation ” o f a king— a
cerem ony adopted from the Mysteries. Som e o f the earliest
crow ns w hich they w ore had outstanding spikes, rem inding one o f
the “ crow n o f thorns ” o f J e s u s ; or it m ay have been in the
form o f the Greek diadem, representing, in Greece, the crown o f
the central and west and north-w est part o f E urope. A s just
FU ND AM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 217
hinted, this also was a sym bol o f one o f the cerem onies o f one o f
the stages o f initiations, a cerem ony signifying w hat occurred
when the one undergoing trial was in a state o f samddhi, as the
H indus say, and his head was surrounded w ith a glory or aura
radiating from the brain like the spikes o f the early c r o w n ; in
which state, also, a nim bus or aura surrounded the b o d y as w ell
as the head, bu t far less strongly.
N ow these are the things that it seem ed necessary to speak of
tonight, as part o f an introduction to our studies.
N ow we em bark m ore particu larly u pon our m ain them e. It
w ill be recalled, as has been already suggested several tim es, that
we have been studying from the tim e the Teacher inaugurated
these m eetings last year, or abou t a year ago now , the so-called
Seven Treasures or Jew els w hich we have enum erated before ;
and we are now studying certain aspects o f the Seventh or highest,
m ore especially in its relation to the W on drou s B eing, called the
Great Initiatory the Lonely Watcher, the Silent Witness, and b y
other such nam es. A n d w e called attention last week to certain
o f the analogies w hich our ow n hum an life bore to the K osm ic
W on drou s B eing— for instance, particularly the analogy o f the
infinitesim als, the lives infinitesim al, livin g in and upon the
kosm oi or universes com prised in our ow n physical b od y ,
the atom ic infinitesim als, and h ow our personal self was the
Suprem e Self o f that host o f those alm ost innum erable atom s.
T hat it was the self w hich held that infinitesim ally im m ense
K osm os together, and perm eated all in it, and reached through
all in it, like a m ystic Fire. A n d we also p oin ted out how , never­
theless, each one o f those atom s, being a universe in itself, had its
ow n entire hierarchy, its ow n series o f ten degrees or stages,
counting from its ow n suprem e, its ow n parabrahm an and
m ulaprakriti, dow n to its ow n “ absolute m atter ” .
Sim ilarly, our ow n U niversal K osm os can be considered as an
im bodied soul or rather Self, m ade u p o f alm ost innum erable
K osm ic A tom s or solar and planetary bodies, livin g w ith num ber­
less Com panions on the face o f the Boundless. W e began to have
som e intelligent com prehension from this stu dy o f the Self, how,
in a sense, the “ One ” m ight becom e the M any, yet rem aining
forever the " One ” , m erely calling it the “ One ” , because it is
the Sum m it or Self o f that M ost Great H ierarchy which our
imaginations can attain to. B ut beyon d its boundaries there are
innum erable other such Ones ; and beyon d all such Ones, there
are innum erable hosts o f indefinitely greater Ones : and so ad
infinitum! The best w ay b y w hich to represent the Boundless,
in w hich they all m ove and live and have their being, is b y the
age-old sym bol o f the Z ero— Lim itless Boundlessness.
T hat sym bol is rem arkable also in another respect, that it so
218 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
clearly and beau tifu lly exem plifies the teaching o f the V oid , the
E m ptiness, called in B uddhism Sfinyata, m eaning the “ em p ty ” ,
the " v oid ” . It is really extraordinary how our W estern scholars
w ill m isunderstand and therefore m isrepresent these things.
T h ey are such literalists that th ey w ill take a w ord and drive that
w ord to literal death. T h ey take the form o f the th ou gh t, the
b o d y , and see little or nothing o f the Soul behind it. T h ey seem
to have no realization o f the m ystic m eaning behind this w ondrous
thought, the V oid, the E m ptiness. D o you rem em ber that in a
form er stu dy we spoke o f a mediaeval m ystic, Bernard o f Clairvaux
in France I think it was, w ho said that the state a student of
m ysticism should aspire to was that o f emptying him self, u tterly
casting out everything that was personal or lim iting, everything
that was boun d and finite ? This is a rem arkable thought for a
Christian ; but quite Oriental. Such a state o f m ind lets the free
w inds o f Infinity b low through one, as it w ere !
L et us pause a m om ent over this. T he V oid is a sym bol o f the
B oundless ; hence, it is everything because it is no thing. “ N o­
thing ” if you like. N ot “ nothing ” in the Christian theological
sense, bu t no Thing, no m anifestation. It is n ot a consciousness,
because it is all consciousness, w hich is unconsciousness in every
personal and lim ited sense ; " consciousness ” is a hum an term .
Y et it is n ot " unconsciousness ” , because it is all " unconscious­
ness ” of any personal or lim ited sense, and " unconsciousness ”
is a hum an term . It is b oth the lim ited and the illim itable tim e,
and e te r n ity ; everything and therefore no thing. Call it b y
anything and you lim it it. It is that w hich Is and Was and in
the utter eternity ever shall Be. A n d because it is nothing
finite, because it is n ot a thing, because it is n ot one, or tw o, or
three, bu t beyon d all n u m era tion ; because it is b eyon d all
hum an thought and sim ilitude and com parison and expression,
it is called that, w hich the hum an m ind reaches when it opens to
its utm ost for an abstraction, the Void, w hich is likew ise u tter
Fullness.
O ur stu dy this evening calls to us to m ove forw ard. E ach
one o f our studies lately has been dealing w ith very difficult
s u b je c ts ; and each one, if properly understood, means a great
stride forw ard for us along the E soteric Path. T onight, let us
be m ore particular in our rem arks. A t our m eeting o f last w eek
we generalized our them e, as was necessary, in trying to give the
general view. Tonight we shall particularize.
These seven Treasures, then, represent in doctrinal form the
seven stages of initiation. N ow we are told that there are ten
stages or degrees o f initiation ; w hich means that there are three
m ore than the above nam ed seven o f these Treasures. B ut we
need not consider these three others. T h ey are utterly beyon d
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 219
our capacity. T h ey belong, we are told , to B eings w h o have
advanced so far beyon d us that th ey can no longer tru ly be called
hum an entities, although th ey do belon g to our P lanetary Chain
b y reason o f past evolu tion ary karm an.
E ach stage or degree o f initiation after the third o f the seven,
we are taught, is m arked b y som ething m ore than teaching. The
first three initiations, or stages or degrees in initiation, we are
taught, are com posed o f teachings. W ith the fourth degree, there
begins another m ethod. W h at is this m ethod ?
It is one o f the fundam ental teachings o f O ccultism and o f our
E soteric S chool, that n oth in g can be truly known w hich is n ot
experienced, lived through. A s a m atter o f fact, we all know this,
as it is com m on experience. One o f the so-called laws o f our being,
one o f the fundam ental conditions o f our hum an nature is this,
that th orou gh ly to know a thing, th orou ghly to enter into it,
th orou ghly to understand it, you m ust be it, you m ust become it.
Y ou cannot tread the P ath until you becom e and are that Path.
Thus, therefore, the different stages or degrees o f initiation are
really a kind o f “ forcing-process ” , for certain chosen spirits,
certain chosen souls, w ho have p roved them selves w o r t h y : a
" forcing ” or developing-process enabling them through actual
experience, individual experience, to pass through and realize
the hid secrets o f being w hich the slow processes o f evolu tion ary
developm ent w ould have brought to them as the ages rolled b y .
It is, in fact, a quickening or aw akening o f the m an to inner
know ledge and pow er. These different stages or degrees of
initiation are m arked b y preparatory purifications, first. Then
cam e the “ death ” , a m ystic death. The b o d y and low er prin­
ciples, so to say, are paralysed, and the soul is tem porarily freed.
A nd, to a certain extent, it (the freed inner man) is guided and
directed and helped b y the initiators while it passes into other
spheres and to other planes and learns the nature o f these by
becoming them, w hich is the on ly w ay b y w hich know ledge th ereof
roots itself into the soul, i.e., into the ego : b y becoming the thing.
The “ initiant ” is one undergoing initiation— and rem em ber
that “ initiation ” m eans “ beginning ” ; an “ initiant ” is a
" b e g in n e r/1 w hile a person initiated, an initiate, is one w ho has
begun an undertaking. Please also note that “ adept ” means
one w h o is “ skilled ” ; hence, even in our ordinary life, a chem ist,
a physician, a theologian, a m echanic, an engineer, a teacher o f
languages, an astronom er, are all " adepts ” , persons w ho are
” skilled ” , each in his ow n profession. T hose tw o w ords have,
generally speaking, the sam e m eaning also in the E soteric S c h o o l:
an " A d ep t ” is one w ho is skilled in the esoteric W isdom , in the
teachings o f life ; and an “ initiant ” is one w ho is beginning
to learn them . T o say that you and I are “ beginners ” , i.e .,
220 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
“ initiants ” , is m erely stating the obviou s truth. It is likewise a
convenient w ord, for it tells y ou n othing definite as to degree or
s ta g e ; it is a generalization. H ence one cou ld properly a s k :
" B eginning w here and w hat ? ” I m ay be at the b o tto m rung o f
the ladder o f in itiation ; and you m ay be at the top ; yet each
one o f us is beginning, for progress is endless.
L et us then closely exam ine all these or any other sim ilar state­
m ents, for ou r ow n sakes. W e are taught strictly to exam ine,
strictly to search into, everything that is told us. Our Teacher
here now , K atherine T in gley, herself w orks night and d ay in
order to awaken us to the realization of things, tryin g to have us
live the life, to be it, to become it ; for such is the old teaching o f
un cou n ted ages gone by.
N ow , the passage from The Secret Doctrine to w hich we have
alluded this evening, w hich we also read last week, and again at
our m eeting before that, and w hich form s our m ain them e at
present, in w hich H . P. B lavatsky speaks o f the “ E ver-livin g-
H um an-B anyan ” , refers also to the Arhats (a Sanskrit w ord
m eaning " w orthies ” ) w h o belon g to the seventh rung o f the
spiritual-psychological H ierarchy, being on ly one rem ove from
the R oot-B ase o f their H ierarchy, w hich is the W ondrous B eing
o f our present stu dy, therefore on the eighth plane o f the ten
com posing that H ierarchy. There is a still greater and m ore
W on drou s B eing on the ninth p la n e ; the highest o f all, the Sum m it
o f all, is on the tenth.
L et us m ake a step still farther forw ard. W e are taught th at at
the fifth initiation, part o f the w onderful experience that the initiant
o f that D egree m ust go through, is that after due and sufficient
preparation and purification o f the low er self and o f the soul
w ithin, the one under trial in the M ystic Path, m eets his H igher
Self, his ow n inner god, face to face for “ a passing m om ent ” .
W oe u n to him if there be anything in him w hich cannot support
the t r ia l! T he warnings given to us in this respect are solem n
indeed. T h e Deathless W atch er know s all, and accepts n o ex ­
cuses. T hose w ho fail, have indeed another chance in another life,
or in other liv e s ; bu t n o base m etal either now or then can be
accepted in this D read Test. T h e inner nature m ust be pure
gold tried in the fire, nothing counterfeit, nothing that is w eak
and w ill break or fail w hen the test com es upon it. Y o u m ust then
be fu lly ready to take you r place in the Guardian W a ll; no
w eakling can stand there.
W e are further to ld th at in the sixth D egree, instead o f on e’s
ow n H igher Self, the initiant m eets another One, a m atter w h ich
w e w ill to-n igh t pass over in silence. A n d in the seventh Degree,
the sam e proceeding takes place as part o f the M ystic D eath, and
the aspirant— can w e say “ m eets face to face ” ? N o, he becomes
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y 221
for a passing moment the Wondrous Watcher himself; and either
returns am ong m en as a ------- , or vanishes and is seen no m ore.
In the form er case, he knows, because he has become!
W e have spoken tonight o f the Christian m ythos. W e deliber­
ately have chosen this term , for truly it is a m ythos. The entire
story o f Jesus as it is given in the so-called Gospels is a M ystery-
story. N o such m an or being as the Jesus of the G ospels ever
lived. R em em ber w hat a m ythos is. It is a tale or allegory im -
b od yin g som e secret truth. In this case, it is the story o f the
M ysteries partly told in sym bol and allegory, partly told w ith
som e degree o f later ignorant e m b ro id e ry ; but, as a w hole,
representing alm ost, as it were picturing, w hat took place in the
M ysteries of A sia M inor. The m anner and style o f narrative, in
all such cases, depended upon the national custom o f celebrating
them , and on the cast o f m inds o f the peoples am ong w hom such
or another schem e or system o f initiation prevailed. B ut the
Jesus o f the Gospels is a m ystery-figure on ly : a com posite figure
based on m ystical teaching. U ndou btedly there d id exist a
you n g Syrian initiate o f that tim e, around w hom were grouped
these various tales and stories taken m ore or less b od ily from the
M ystery-Schools o f A sia M inor and especially o f A lex a n d ria ;
because Alexandrian m ysticism is the m ain origin o f theological
C hristianity, for in that city it had its rise theologically. This
Syrian initiate, p robably a you n g Jewish rabbi, was possibly
actually called Yeshua, Iesous in Greek, Jesus in Latin. The
H ebrew w ord Y eshua itself, means “ savior ” , and the later
Christians of course seized upon this nam e— or later conferred it
upon their supposed founder— and w ove a m ystical tale about his
nam e, thus sym bolizing his m ission on earth as a “ savior W e
all know the Christian tale. B ut from the very beginning o f it as
the " Gospels ” give it : from the story o f the Magi follow ing the
star, to the mystical death by crucifixion, and the rising again on
the third day from the tomb, it is n othing bu t a cop y, m ore or less
denatured and faded and p oorly w oven together, o f great actual
M ysteries, the M ysteries of some o f the cerem onies of initiation,
o f w hich the earliest Christians certainly had som e knowledge ;
see O rigen and Clem ent o f A lexandria, for instance. B ut the
story in its various im perfections shows clearly that it is on ly
a feebly constructed allegory, or m ythos, o f actual initiatory
occurrences.
A pollonius o f T yana, the Greek, was p rob ab ly as noble a
character as was the Syrian Y eshua, or “ Jesus “ Jesus ” is
m erely the R om an form o f the nam e. W e read o f the m arvels o f
A pollonius o f Tyana, o f his w orks and life, in the m ystic “ L ife ”
w ritten b y Philostratus. B ut A pollonius is a historical character,
and " Jesus ” is n ot. The story o f A pollonius is an interesting
Q
222 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
one. W e read o f his “ vanishing aw ay " before D om itian, when
he was on trial before that eccen tric and severe m o n a rch ; and
m uch m ore. W h y w as it th at Jesus was said to have been
" crucified " ? B u t he was n ot actually crucified. It is a M ystery-
story, as I have s a id ; and n ot necessarily a Jew ish M ystery-
Story, n or a G reek M ystery-story. E ach nation had its ow n
M ysteries, greatly resem bling one another, but varyin g in d e t a il;
b u t in all, there was alw ays the “ M ystical D eath " . There was
alw ays the " descent into H ades " or “ H ell ” ; there was alw ays
th e “ R esurrection " , the Rising, usually after “ three days " ;
and the " G lorification " at the end o f the T rial.
V ery m any o f the things that occurred in the M ysteries were
taken over into civil functions o f the State, and they thus form ed
the types o f m any institutions in civil life in ancient tim es. The
K in g and his M inisters or Servants, as officers o r functionaries o f
the State, were taken over from the ancient M ysteries, as copies
o f the T eacher and his disciples or officials. This is one reason (of
tw o reasons) w h y the ancients w rote of their " D ivine D ynasties "
o f prim eval tim es ; and on this also was originally founded the
idea o f the “ divine right o f kings " — in later ages so greatly m is­
understood and abused. W h y, the very calendars o f the ancient
nations were based u pon the sam e t h in g : th ey were derived,
taken over, from the M ysteries. O riginally, th ey were based on
actual astrological truths, real know ledge o f tim e-periods ; and
later were m isunderstood and m isapplied. F or instance, have you
realized th at the Christian com m em orative h oly days o f G ood
F rid ay, and E aster three days later, are p ractically the sam e
thing as the W in ter Solstice o f D ecem ber 21-22, and Christm as,
D ecem ber 25, three days later ? B oth are based on the same
original idea o f the “ m ystic death " , and the “ birth " , or “ resur­
rection " , three days later, o f the “ unconquered S u n ," exem plified
in the “ death " and “ resurrection " o f the successful neophyte
in the m ysteries, three days later ! W h y was it, I ask you , that
the Christians adop ted b oth the ancient pagan festival o f the
w inter-solstice, and the ancient pagan “ R esurrection "-m y th os,
and m ade an E aster ou t o f the latter ? One bein g the a lleg ed
anniversary o f their Jesus's birth (Christmas), and the latter the
anniversary o f his “ R esurrection " ! Because th ey w anted very
m uch to con n ect and bin d together their new fangled religion
w ith the personality o f the great Jewish prophet or initiate later
called Jesus ; and, at the sam e tim e, to connect him w ith the
archaic M ystery-teachings o f the School o f W isdom . N ow , as the
Jew ish or rather Syrian festival took place in the m onth o f the
spring equin ox, or rather o n the d a y o f the f u l l m o o n follow in g the
spring equinox, th ey copied the ancient M ysteries again here,
as follow s : T h ey, as it were, severed the sym bol into tw o parts,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 223
and called one “ Christm as " , com m em orating the birth o f the
physical b o d y o f their supposed Jesus ; and the other p art th ey
called R esurrection, or E aster, com m em orating the “ birth ” o f
the T ranscending Christos. It was a curious tou r de fo r c e , as the
French say, a curious feat o f “ m ystical gym nastics ” , as the
Teacher so n eatly puts it. B ut, and please m ark this, these tw o
dates were actu ally in very truth closely con n ected in the ancient
M ysteries, and very m uch in the line the Christians follow ed !
W h at cop yists !
N ow , if y ou take the m ystic calendar that guardedly we spoke
o f last week, it is rem arkable how it fits in w ith the M ystery-
teachings con n ected w ith this W ondrous Being, the Great
Initiator. A s to the article in L u c ife r , January 1890, referred to
last w eek b y us, in w hich H . P. B lavatsky speaks o f the date w hich
the E sotericists should call the N ew Y ear, i.e ., January 4th— does
anyone really think that she m eant that “ January 4th ” p e r se
has any especially m agical or m ystical properties or influences ?
N o ; she did not. O ur calendar-day for January 4th is a date
o f a purely m echanical Calendar, w ith nothing m ystical or hid in
it at all. If we were to fall into a period of universal ignorance
such as the M editerranean nations fell into after Christianity
becam e pow erful, we should forget even how to take care o f our
m erely m echanical Calendar, and find ourselves unable to m ake
it con form to the changing seasons. W e should then be in the
sam e troubled case as the E uropean peoples were in, in the
sixteenth century, when P ope G regory X I I I , had certain con ­
tem porary m athem aticians reform the old Julian Calendar
because of the disorder it had fallen into through the pure ignor­
ance o f G regory's predecessors. T h ey did not know h ow to
intercalate the necessary days at the proper tim e, and in F ebruary
1582, when the Julian Calendar was reform ed b y Papal B ull or
E dict, th ey were eleven to tw elve days behind the true year.
Sim ilar was the case w hen Julius Caesar reform ed the Calendar
in the year 47 B.c., on ly m uch worse, for ow ing to p olitical
m achinations, doubtless, o f the different Pontifices M axim i, the
Calendar o f the R om ans, as I rem arked last week, had fallen so
far behind the natural year of the seasons that the Calendar
“ January the first ” , fell on w hat was really O ctober 13th,
according to n a tu r e ; and the Calendar ” w inter-solstice ” ,
D ecem ber 21st or 22nd, fell on O ctober 3rd, or thereabouts ;
and if Caesar had n ot corrected the grow ing disorder and confusion,
the constant loss o f the days through w rong or om itted inter­
calations w ould have let the Calendar-year fall continually
backw ards all through the natural year, perhaps. So you see
that when speaking o f H . P. B lavatsky and the astrological
Calendar, m ost certainly we d o n ot m ean m erely the m echanical
224 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Calendar o f com m on u s e ; n or d id H . P. B lavatsk y m ean it.
B u t she m eant a date depending u pon real astrological fa c t s ;
and we adverted briefly to w hat she really did m ean in our stu dy
o f last week.
R em em ber th at astron om y is m erely the m echanical aspect o f
true, ancient astrology, and for that reason, astron om y deals
o n ly w ith the positions, m ovem ents, and physical con ception s o f
plan etary and solar and stellar bodies. It is in real fact, m erely
one branch o f the ancient A strology, a sublim e “ Science o f the
Celestial B odies ” , and w e d o not mean w hat m odern w riters
m iscall “ astrology ” — a “ paper-science ” at best. W e have
spoken sufficiently stron gly against such a m isconception at other
m eetings.
N ow our real year, our M ystic Y ear, is quite a different one from
the civil, or ordinary chronological year. The civil chronological
year cou ld begin on the true date o f the w inter-solstice, that is to
say on the d ay and m om ent w hen the sun is farthest south, and
ju st as it begins its jou rn ey northw ards again. T h at is one of the
natural periods o f tim e and season-division ; and it is also an
astrological tim e-period, if we wish to form a tim e-cycle ; bu t
w ith one im portant change. N ow w hat w ould be that astro­
logical cy cle ? W e cou ld start our Civil Y ear at the w inter-
solstice when the moon is new— ju st w h y new, is som ething I am
n ot authorized here and n ow to say. B ut fourteen days after the
true solstice, or on w hat is n ow January 4th, according to our
present Calendar, the moon is fu ll; and that d ay opens under the
con trol o f the planet M ercury or H erm es, the particular leader,
guide, and director, of initiations and the Teachers. This is the
case, m ark well, when that planet is in " inferior con ju n ction ”
at sunrise ; or m ore particularly when Sun, M ercury, E arth, and
M oon are all in “ syzygy ” : all along a straight line ; M ercury
being betw een Sun and E arth, and the M oon full. T h e planet
M ercury then controls the first hour o f the 14th d ay after the
w in ter-solstice; bu t that solstice m ust con cu r w ith the new m oon,
and M ercury on that 14th d ay afterw ards m ust b e in inferior
con ju n ction at sunrise. The 14th d ay (January 4th) is then a
true “ W edn esday ” , or M ercury-day. Thus opens the cycle.
H ow long that cy cle lasts, I have not had op portu n ity to investi­
gate. O ur astronom ers here can w ork it out. B u t thus we should
have tw o years : one for w hat we m ay call the Civil Y ear (funda­
m entally an astrological year) for the purposes o f civil ch ron ology,
b y w hich ordinary tim e w ou ld be reckoned ; and the B u ddh ic-
C ycle Y ear. The civil year w ould then begin w ith the d ay o f the
w inter-solstice, let us say D ecem ber 21-22, in the night betw een
D ecem ber 21st and 22nd. T he n ext d ay therefore w ould be the
first d ay o f the first m on th o f the new civil y e a r ; bu t our M ystig
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 225
Y ear, ou r B u dd h ic Y ear, w ould begin fourteen days after that
atf u l l m o o n , on a true W ednesday, or B udha-day.
W e turn n ow to another m atter, w hich, because it is o f real
im portance, the Leader has authorized m e to take a few m ore
m inutes this evening for the purpose o f attem pting m ore fu lly to
explain it. I refer to the diagram w hich was discussed som ew hat
at ou r last m eeting, and w hich w e then had no tim e to explain in
detail.
Archetypal
World.
Divine Soul or
Monadic
Envelope.
Spiritual Soul
or Individual
Monad: Buddhi:
Fruit and Seed
of Manas.
Higher Human
Soul. Lower
Buddhi and
Higher Manas.
Human Soul, or
Man. Manas,
Kama, and
Priina.
Beast-Soul, or
Vital-Astral
Soul: K^ma and
Prana.
Physical Soul or
Body: Sthfila-
¿ariraand Prana
and Linga*
Sarlra.
Paramàtman
or Supreme
Self.
Atman
Divine Ego.
Jtv&tman
Spiritual Ego.
BhiUatman
Human Ego.
Prânâtman
Personal Ego.
Beast-Ego.
Body.
This paradigm , this sym bol, can refer either to m an, or m u ta tis
m u ta n d is to the universe o f any full H ierarchy, it m atters n ot
w hich H ierarchy. N ote then, first, that we have at the top o f
the diagram , the A rch etyp al W o rld , w hich is the R o o t or Seed,
if we look upon it as the origin or com m encem ent o f things, as the
locus o f the initiation o f K osm ic evolu tion and p rog ress; or
w hich is the Flow er, the E n d, the C onsum m ation o f things, if we
look upon it as the full-blow n F low er o f the K osm ic E volu tion ary
Cycle. It m ay be d ivid ed into three “ planes ” , so to say, form ing
the H ighest T riad or D ivine T riad ; the second o f these “ planes ”
226 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
is called the Param atm an or Suprem e Self. The first " plane ”
represents the Parabrahm an, w ith its field of M u lap rak riti; this
H ighest Triad, as represented, applies to any H ie ra rch y : this
H ierarchy, that H ierarchy, any H ierarchy ; as this paradigm is
representative o f all. The Param atm an likewise represents the
first or U nm anifested Logos. The third “ plane ” , or low est of the
T riad, represents the third or M anifested L ogos, or B rahm a-
Purusha-Prakriti. Then, follow ing the diagram dow nw ards, we
reach the seven Principles and E lem ents in m anifestation, form ed
o f the three quasi-arupa or " form less ” planes, and of the four
rupa-planes, or planes o f form . The egg-shaped envelope of the
H ierarchy is d ivided into these seven planes, if you please, and
six centers o f consciousness, w ith their inseparable six vehicles—
or “ souls T he vertical line running up and dow n through the
E gg, represents the indw elling S e lf: that Self w hich in you and
m e and in all, is One ; that w hich in all of us says “ I am It
does n ot differ in you nor in me, for it is One, the U niversal Self
o f the H ierarchy. B u t w hat is it in you and m e or in any one
w hich says “ I am /, notyou ” ?— that w hich is self-consciousness ?
T hat, is the ego ; the “ I ” , but n ot the S e lf; for the Self is b eyon d
and outside of all such lim itation of consciousness. It recognises
no distinction betw een Thee and Me. Y ou rem em ber the beautiful
Sfifi legend, how the Soul, w andering in search of Truth, cam e
finally to the H ouse of G od and knocked at the portal. Then in
answer to the knock, thunder reverberated through the spaces of
H eaven, and G od called out, “ W h o art thou ? ” A n d the Soul
replied : " I ” . A n d G od answered : ” 1 know n ot I ” . Then
the Soul w andered again for m any ages in tribulation and sorrow ;
and finally it cam e anew, and once m ore kn ocked at the portal
o f the H ouse of G od. A n d the voice of G od called out and said :
” W h o art thou ? ” A n d the Soul replied, and said : " Thou ” .
A n d the v oice o f G od then answered and s a id : " E nter into
thine ow n, for we are One ” . N o distinction there o f I and T h ou
— a beautiful legend im bod yin g one of the profoundest con cepts
of the A n cient W isdom .
Further, we have attem pted to represent paradigm atically the
decreasing consciousness, understanding, pow er, poten cy, force,
expansion, com prehension, b y the six circles gradually decreasing
in size dow nw ards, along the central line representing the Self.
It is im possible to represent adequately on a flat surface a purely
m etaphysical s u b je c t; bu t our wish in so doing is to show that the
higher the circle or sphere is, the m ore spiritual the sphere or
center is ; the larger and the m ore com prehending it is in b oth
qu ality and p oten cy, n ot necessarily in m agnitude. Further, we
have attem p ted to show the increasing m ateriality in these
centers or spheres as th ey go farther dow nw ards, b y thicker and
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y 227
thicker shading o f these centers in the diagram . T h e highest
center is the D ivine Soul or M onadic E nvelope. It is the first o r
highest vehicle o f the A tm a n ; and as an egoic center it is the
D ivine E go. The next one dow nw ards is the Spiritual Soul or
the Individu al M onad. This, and the one above it, com bin ed,
are the Inner C h rist; and corresponding to the Spiritual Soul
or Individu al M onad is the Jivatm an or Spiritual E go. It is that
p ortion o f our spiritual econ om y w hich is deathless as an indi­
vidualized E go ; deathless until the end o f the M aha-M anvantara
o f the Solar System . W hen the Solar Pralaya arrives in the grand
fullness o f T im e, there com es a m om ent, a final instant w hich is
the utter com pletion or consum m ation o f all things in that sy ste m ;
and in the tw inkling o f an eye, literally, and instantly, all the
planets and the sun itself are “ blow n out ” , as it were. The last
one o f all m anifested beings has at that instant gone to higher
p la n es; and there being nothing w hatsoever left to h old physical
m atter together anywhere w ithin the Solar System , that System
im m ediately falls to pieces and vanishes aw ay (as I have said
before) like an instantaneous shadow passing over a wall.
The second center is com prised o f B uddhi, b oth the fruit and
the Seed o f Manas. T his is the center or seed or root or base o f
the R eincarnating E go. Then b elow it com es in our diagram the
H igher H um an Soul, com posed o f the low er B uddhi, and the
H igher M anas : w ith the Self perm eating it, as said above.
C orresponding to it as egoic center is the B hutatm an, explained
at our last m eeting, otherw ise the H um an E go. N ext com es the
H um an Soul or Man. This is form ed o f Manas, K am a, Prana ;
and the egoic center corresponding to it is the Pranatm an, or the
personal ego, w hich is m ortal.
There is no abiding principle from and including this, dow n­
wards ; n o abiding principle in “ m an ” w hatsoever. The next
below is the B east-Soul, or the V ital-A stral Soul, the K am a-
Prana ; its quasi-egoic center being the B east-ego, if you like :
that elem entary principle o f egoship in the beast w hich holds it
together during its existence. Our teachings d o give to every
anim ate thing a s o u l; n ot a " hum an soul ” or a “ divine soul ”
o r a " spiritual soul ” ; bu t a soul corresponding to its type. W h at
it is, w hat its typ e is, comes from its soul; hence we properly
m ay speak o f the different beasts as having, one or the other, a
“ duck-soul ” , an “ ostrich-soul ” , a “ b u ll-” or a “ cow -soul ” ,
a " chicken-soul ” , or a “ nightingale-soul ” , and so on. The
low er entities, considered as a K ingdom , are differentiated into
these different fam ilies o f anim ate beings b y the different " souls ”
w ithin each ; and o f course behind the soul from w hich it springs,
there are in each individual en tity all the other principles that
likewise inform Man ; but all the higher principles are latent in the
228 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
beast. T hat is why. m an belongs to another— the H um an K in gdom ,
for there is in him the B uddhi-principle m ore or less active.
Manas springs forth from the B uddhi as the fruit from the flow er ;
bu t m anas itself is m ortal, goes to pieces at death. A ll o f it th at
lives after death, is on ly w hat is spiritual in it, and th at can be
squeezed ou t o f it, so to say. H . P . B . calls it the “ arom a ” o f
th e m a n a s ; m uch as the chem ist takes from the rose the A tta r
o r E ssence o f R oses.
T h e last is the physical " soul ” or b od y , the sthfila-£arira, the
gross b od y , pr&na, and the linga-Sarira.
W e have spoken before o f the “ lost soul ” as bein g at one p ole,
and o f the M aster at the oth er pole, o f consciousness. It is betw een
the higher hum an soul, and the hum an soul (or m an proper) that
lies the p sych ological frontier over w hich one m ust pass forw ards
or u p w a rd s; backw ards or d ow n w a rd s; into regeneration or
degeneration. I f y ou go " upw ards ” and continue to g o “ u p ­
w ards ” or rather “ inw ards ” — please rem em ber that we are
obliged to use hum an language in all such descriptions ; w e actu ­
a lly d o n ot g o “ u p ” in space ; it is q u a lity that we are speaking
o f, the refining o f the qu ality o f the hum an ego ; the penetrating,
the breaking into, as it were, o f the final sheaths o f ou r inner
being th at m akes the distinction— if we continue to g o “ upw ards ”
or “ inw ards ” , w e attain finally to M asterhood. B ut, contrari­
wise, if w e go “ dow nw ards ” , if our egoic sou l-qu ality w h olly
deteriorates, then at last we lose the ego-center, the soul-center,
w h ich d ivorced from its upper life-thread, is dissipated, and, as
said, is at last annihilated. There is the cause o f a “ lost soul ”
at one p ole o f consciousness ; and o f the M aster at the oth er pole.
W h en m ortality becom es Im m o rta lity ; w hen th e corru ptible
becom es the In corru ptible, then do we attain to full and com plete
conscious M asterhood— a L ord o f L ife.
A s said before, w hen the conscious center w hich w e now are is
given over to full attraction or gravitation tow ards m atter, the
m om en tu m increases w ith tim e and use, and, through attrition
as it w ere, th a t part o f us w here our egoic consciousness then
resides, called “ soul ” , is w orn aw ay and finally vanishes. It is
w iped ou t, annihilated ; n othing is left o f it. It sinks in to the
" E ighth Sphere ” , th e “ Planet o f D eath ” , where it m eets finally
its fearful fate. A s to th e m on adic (the spiritual) essence o f our
being, it then has to evolve a new con sciou s cen ter or egoic
vehicle, for future reincarnations. T hat is where the seriousness
o f this thing com es in. It has to d evelop or evolv e the new sou l-
center, the new egoic center, in order to take u p again th e link in
the series o f liv e s ; and it m ay b e that in certain circum stances
ages u pon ages m ay pass before the n ew ly ev olv ed veh icle o f
m on adic consciousness is able to m ake u p the lost tim e and
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 229
opportunities. In the m eanw hile, the racial L ife-W av e has sw ept
far along th e P ath w ay o f D e s tin y ; leaving the “ failures ” far
in the rear.
A t our next study, w e w ill continue the sam e general them e
that we have been studying.
C H A P T E R X X
THE HIGHER ASPECT OF HUMAN PSYCHOLOGY. INITIATION AND THE
MYSTERIES : AVATARAS. BUDDHAS AND BODHISATTVAS. THEIR
RELATION TO GLOBES, ROUNDS, AND RACES.
Truly, " for the salvation of the good and the destruction of wickedness," the
personalities known as Gautama, Sankara, Jesus and a few others were born each
in his age, as declared— " I am born in every Yuga "— and they were all born
through the same Power.
There is a great mystery in such incarnations and they are outside and beyond
the cycle of general rebirths. Rebirths may be divided into three classes : the
divine incarnations called Avatdras ; those of Adepts who give up Nirvana for
the sake of helping on humanity— the Nirm&nakayas ; and the natural succession
of rebirths for all— the common law. The Avatara is an appearance, one which
may be termed a special illusion within the natural illusion that reigns on the
planes under the sway of that power, Mfiya ; the Adept is reborn consciously,
at his will and pleasure p the units of the common herd unconsciously follow the
great law of dual evolution.
What is an Avat&ra ? for the term before being used ought to be well under­
stood. It is a descent of the manifested Deity— whether under the specific name
of &iva, Vishnu, or Adi-Buddha— into an illusive form of individuality, an appear­
ance which to men on this illusive plane is objective, but it is not so in sober fact.
That illusive form, having neither past nor future, because it had neither previous
incarnation nor will have subsequent rebirths, has naught to do with Karma,
which has therefore no hold on it.
The Doctrine of Avatdras (H. P. Blavatsky), “ S.D. Ill," 364.
P
L U N G IN G directly into our su bject this evening : it
w ill be rem em bered that we have been stu dyin g the
nature o f the “ W ondrous B eing ” o f w h om H . P .
B lavatsk y w rites in the first volum e o f T h e S ecr et
D o c tr in e , on pages 207 and 208 ; and it w ill be rem em bered that
the k ey-w ords b y w hich we m ay gain som e appreciation of the
w ay this W on drou s B eing w orks in hum anity, and m ore particu­
larly in the p sych ological H ierarchy, through the cycles o f the
M ysteries and o f initiation— these key-w ords were the “ hum an
B anyan
A lso we read on page 424 o f the sam e volu m e, under section the
12th, “ The T h eog on y o f the Creative G ods ” , H . P. B lavatsk y's
w ords con cern ing the H ierarchy o f Forces, where she points out
how these F orces were origin ally understood in their proper
sense, as Intelligences and Consciousnesses w orking in N ature ;
bu t that each nation, as the cycles o f tim e passed b y , understood
1 A genuine initiated Adept will retain liis Adeptship, though there may be
for our world of illusion numberless incarnations of him. The propelling power
that lies at the root of a series of such incarnations is not Karma, as ordinarily
understood, but a still more inscrutable power. During the period of his lives
the Adept does not lose his Adeptship, though he cannot rise in it to a higher
degree.
23°
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 231
these F orces and Intelligences in the sam e w ay indeed, b u t gave
to them different nam es, and developed a philosophical under­
standing o f the m achinery, so to say, o f the K osm os in slightly
differing m anners or form s, and that these different philosophical
form s were the various Schools o f the M ysteries ; for instance, in
Sam othrace and in Eleusis, in Greece, and sim ilar schools in other
countries.
N ow up to the present tim e we have been talking in m ore or
less generalizing term s regarding this W on drou s B e in g ; but
tonight, w ithin the tim e that our Teacher has set for us, we are
going to try to particularize, asking ourselves definitely w ho and
w hat this W on drou s B eing is.
N ow to do that, we are undertaking, as was poin ted ou t before,
an extrem ely difficult task, on account o f the subtil nature o f the
subjects w hich in their entirety expose the truth about this
W on drou s B eing. W e cannot understand w ho and w hat this
W ondrous B eing is w ith ou t understanding som ething of the
initiations o f the M ystery-Schools ; and to understand those we
m ust understand som ething o f the higher aspect o f hum an
p sych olog y ; and, again, to understand that, we m ust understand
the oth er doctrines w hich we have been studying, such as the
H ierarchies, and the doctrine o f the Sw abhava, and so forth.
Please understand that these seven Jewels, these seven Trea­
suries o f W isdom , com prehend in sm all com pass all possible
hum an know ledge during this K a lp a ; that is to say, the key-
teachings w hich form those seven Treasuries. T h ey com prise
everyth ing that m an has know n, that h um anity now knows, and
that hum anity can know , in this K alpa. T h ey are, really, a short
synopsis in the form o f philosophical principles— these seven
Jewels— o f all possible hum an know ledge ; and it depends upon
each one o f us how m uch o f that know ledge we can understand.
Y ou p rob ab ly also have n oticed that n ot one o f these Jewels
can be fu lly u nderstood if considered alone. T h ey com plem ent
each other and explain each other. E very one o f them is explained
b y the other six. E ach one o f them explains the other six and
com plem ents them . Please d o n ot im agine for a m om ent that
th ey are separate and distinct com partm ents o f know ledge in the
m aterialistic sense. There is but one K now ledge, one Truth, as
there is bu t one L ife, and one ultim ate B eing ; bu t these various
Jewels, these seven Jew els, are different facets, so to say, o f that
T ruth ; different pillars, to change the figure, in the T em ple of
D ivine W isdom .
It w ill be rem em bered that at our last stu dy we spoke o f tw o
m ain reasons w h y the Teachers have kept these and other d o c­
trines so secret, and w h y the penalties for betrayal o f this know ­
ledge were so great. F irst, because these teachings that we have
232 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
been studying, and m any others, derivatives from them , are the
sublim e rew ard o f those w ho have p roved them selves w orth y o f
them , and o f goin g farther in behind the veil o f life. B u t the
greater reason is that th ey cou ld n ot be understood b y th e
untrained m ind even were th ey t o l d ; th ey sim ply cou ld n ot be
understood. G reat m inds w ould understand m ore than w ould
little m inds, o f course ; but on account o f the im perfect spiritual
d evelop m en t o f m en’s m inds so far in this F ou rth R ou n d , m en
sim p ly cannot understand them w ithout at least som e training,
and the result o f unlaw ful exposure o f them w ou ld be degradation
o f the teachings, w hich origin ally were given to m en b y the gods
in the early ages o f the hum an race.
T his statem ent is no vain rem ark ; these teachings have been
betrayed in som e degree at different tim es, and th ey have alw ays
resulted in w hat w e call “ black m agic ” , the natural result o f a
m isunderstanding and o f a m isapplication o f them , and o f the
principles o f truth w hich are in them . E ven tod ay we find m en,
and w om en too, although th ey know n othing w hatever o f these
secret doctrines, goin g up and dow n the land, charging for their
teachings on what th ey call spiritual realities, and professing to
know everyth in g in heaven and on earth. N ote w ell that no
true spiritual Teacher ever charges a m oney, or any other fee
for spiritual truths.
N ow we all k n ow w hat H . P. B la va tsk y said abou t such action.
" I w ou ld liever starve in the gutter than take a penny for teach­
ing spiritual truths.” T h at is the test b y w hich one m ay know ,
one o f the tests at least, the true T eacher from the false. T hat
is one w ay in w hich a teach ing m ay be degraded. Our Teachers
have n o desire to have these glorious doctrines m isunderstood
and degraded, and, perhaps, hum an souls in relatively large
num bers m isled and their feet set upon the path w hich leads
dow nw ard.
N ow in Greece— w e w ill take this case first as an exam ple— in
Greece there were tw o bodies o f the Mysteries, the Less and the
Greater. T h e Less, in A ttica, were celebrated in the spring-tim e ;
and the G reater were celebrated at about the p eriod o f the
autum nal equin ox, in Septem ber, at Eleusis. T h e Less consisted,
first, o f purifications o f the soul and m ind outw ards and inw ards,
m ostly inw ards, for that is the real purification ; and, second, o f
dram atizations o f that w hich was to take place in actu ality later
in the G reater M ysteries. T h ey represented in dram atic, p ictorial
form , that w hich the G reater M ysteries were to bring to the
candidates.
The M ysteries o f Sam othrace, also a Greek institution, and like
those o f A ttica a state-institution in the later days, were p rob ab ly
the oldest in Greece. B u t these tw o schools o f the M ysteries,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 233
while teaching the sam e fundam ental verities, and the sam e
ultim ate truths, d id n ot teach the same things. F or instance,
the M ysteries o f Sam othrace were w hat w e to-d a y w ou ld rather
call scientific. T h ey dealt w ith the nature and operations o f the
K abeiroi, w ho belon ged to the class o f spiritual entities called
the “ Builders ” , the low er Septenary ; whereas at Eleusis— and
this nam e Eleusis m eans the “ A d v e n t ” or the “ C o m in g ” , and
the Eleusinia “ T h in g s th a t A r e to C o m e ” — at Eleusis were taught
the m ore th eological and m ystical doctrines, m ore particularly
that w hich w ill happen to m an after death. H ence the nam e o f
the place, Eleusis, w here th ey were celebrated, and the nam e o f
the M ysteries them selves, the Eleusinia, i.e ., the things w hich
shall be, or shall com e.
E ach cou n try had its ow n m ystical jargon or dialect or m anner
o f speaking o f and in the various M ysteries ; and w ith regard to
the M ysteries in Greece and in Syria and in Palestine, these
jargons or technical w ords nearly resem bled each other. F or
instance, in Syria, outsiders were called “ swine ” and “ dogs ” ;
betrayers were called “ w olves ” . Those o f you w ho rem em ber
you r N ew Testam ent w ill p rob ab ly rem em ber the instances in
w hich “ swine ” and " dogs ” and, I think, also “ w olves ” are
spoken of. “ F oxes ” was a term for those w ho tried to enter
the M ysteries unlaw fully. A ll these term s are taken from the
attributes o f certain anim als, w hich m an in unlaw ful action
cop ied ; the f o x on accou n t o f its cunning ; the w o lf on accou n t
o f its b o ld cru elty and lack o f conscience— that is the reputation
it has, at le a s t ; sw in e and dogs on accou n t of the repu tation that
these beasts have alw ays had in the O rient.
B u t while these term s were a part o f the jargon o f the M ysteries
o f those countries in those days, as was poin ted out at our last
m eeting, it is n ot the jargon or the dialect or the language used
in our School. I do n ot believe, as was said at our last m eeting,
th at Jesus ever called those w ho were n ot initiates in the M ysteries
o f his tim e “ swine and dogs ” . If he did this, the presum ption
becom es a certain ty th at he did not belon g to our S c h o o l; bu t
as he did so belon g, we m ust conclude that such language cam e
from his disciples livin g p rob ab ly in A lexandria, where the
G ospels were alm ost certainly com posed and w ritten in the form
in w hich w e n ow have them .
N ext— and n ow we turn to th e direct su bject o f our study, to
ou r m ain them e, our m ain thought. Open w ide you r h e a r ts ;
cast ou t for a short tim e from you r m inds all thoughts w hich are
personal and unw orthy o f the atm osphere into w hich we are now
entering. A t our last stu dy we took four technical w ords in
order to explain som ew hat b y th em our present great subject,
talking around it rather than talking o f it, four w ords used in
234 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
the Trans-H im álayan B uddhism , because, first, th ey are the w ords
w hich H . P. B lavatsky u s e d ; secon dly, because th ey are the
w ords w hich are in the esoteric book s o f the E ast belonging to
our School. Three of these are, A di-B uddha, the prim al W is d o m ;
as a Greek w ould say, it is the L ogos ; then the D hyáni-B uddha,
or B uddha o f M editation or C ontem plation, o f w hich B uddhas
there are seven ; then the M ánushya, the hum an B uddha. B ut
these three are all connected : the A di-B u ddh a as the L ogos, the
D hyáni-B uddha as the Causal B uddha, the M ánushya-Buddha as
the A gent on our plane o f the Celestial H ierarchy. These B uddhas
belon g to the Celestial H ierarchy, as contrasted w ith the K osm ic
H ierarchy or Builders. The fourth w ord is B odhisattva.
A t form er m eetings we have spoken o f the Planetary Spirits,
using this term in a general sense as equivalent to D hyáni-
Chohans or L ords o f M editation. N ow this evening we go a step
farther. The Planetaries are the Builders o f the astral-m aterial
w orld, and th ey draw their plan, and th ey draw their higher life,
and th ey draw their w isdom (outside o f that w hich th ey them ­
selves have w on) from the Celestial H ierarchy, the upper Sep­
tenary ; and this Celestial H ierarchy originates in A di-B u ddh a,
prim ordial B uddha, or the Logos.
N ow for each R ou n d o f our Septenary Planetary Cycle (that is
o f this K alpa, or D a y o f Brahm a com prising all the seven R ounds)
there is a presiding D h yáni-B uddha, a B uddha of C ontem plation,
a Causal B uddha ; and all the events of all the seven globes of
our Planetary Chain are under the overseeing or supervision of
the particular D hyáni-C hohan of that R ou nd. Our present
R ou n d , being the fourth, is under the supervision o f the D hyáni-
B uddha belonging to the fourth degree o f the Celestial H ierarchy.
F or each globe of the P lanetary Chain there is w hat the B uddhists
call a B odh isattva, a Sanskrit w ord m eaning " H e w hose essence
is W isdom
N ow this B odh isattva is a m ind-born son, so to say, o f the
D h yán i-B u ddh a of that R ou nd. There is a D h yán i-B odh isattva
for this globe, and also one for each one of the three globes w hich
precede this globe on the dow nw ard arc, and likewise a B o ­
dhisattva for each o f the three globes w hich follow this globe on
the upw ard arc— one B odh isattva for each. This D h yán i-B o­
dhisattva is the spiritual head of the Spiritual-psychological H ier­
arch y o f each globe. Take our globe, for instance. Our D hyáni-
B odh isattva is the W on drou s Being, the Great Initiator, the
Silent W atch er o f our globe ; in one sense an em anation from the
D h yán i-B u ddh a overseeing all the R ou n d , but n ot m erely an
exu dation or prolongation, so to say, o f the D hyáni-B uddha.
E ach B odh isattva is an en tity in him self. H e is, so to say, as a
ray o f that D h yán i-B u ddh a.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 235
N ext, during evolu tion on our earth (and on the other seven
globes correspondentially) the life-w ave runs through seven stages
called R oot-R a ces. E ach one of these R oot-R a ces is ushered in
b y a M anushya-Buddha, a hum an B uddha, w ho is the " son ” o f
the globe-B odh isattva in the same w ay as the globe-B odh isattva
is a “ son ” o f the D h yani-B uddha of the R ound. E ach one o f
these seven R oot-R a ces is furtherm ore divided at its m iddle point,
so to speak. W hen half o f its cycle is run, then the racial cata­
clysm ensues, for that is the w ay in w hich nature operates ; and
preceding that cataclysm there is another hum an B uddha, or
M anushya-Buddha, o f less degree.
N ow , is this W on drou s B eing a m an ? H e is. Is he m ore than
a m an ? H e is. Is he a septenary en tity ? H e is. H ow is the
influence of this W on drou s B eing com m unicated to his agents,
the hum an B uddhas and the hum an B odhisattvas ?
L et us stu dy for a m om ent an allied subject, a psych ological
one, before we go farther. W e cannot understand w hat com es to
our them e farther on until we have at least sketched out this
psych ological subject. Man, as you know , is sevenfold. Man
m ay be divided in a triform w ay : a spiritual m an, an interm ediate
or highly ethereal m an, and an astral-physical m an. In other
w ords and in “ p sy ch o lo g ica l" term s : (1) D ivine m an, (2)
spiritual m an, (3) personal man. N ow , then, what is an A vatara ?
A n A vatara, as com m on ly supposed, is the descent o f a god into
a hum an form . T hat idea is exoteric. It is not false, but sim ply
put in that w ay and w ith nothing m ore added in explanation, it
is very m isleading.
Y ou rem em ber w hat K rishna says in the B hagavad-G ita : “ I
incarnate in period after period in order to d estroy w ickedness
and re-establish righ teou sn ess/' N ow K rishna there represents
the L ogos, or rather, perhaps, the L ogoic R a y ; and the L ogos—
or its R a y or Influence— on our plane w ould be utterly helpless,
inactive, and have no possible m eans of com m unication w ith us
and our sphere, because that L ogoic R a y lacks an interm ediate
a n d f u ll y c o n s c io u s vehicle or carrier, i.e ., it lacks the interm ediate
or highly ethereal m echanism , the spiritual-hum an in us, w hich
in ordinary m an is b u t s lig h tly a ctiv e. A n A vatara takes place
when a direct R a y from the L ogos enters into, fully inspires, and
illum inates, a hum an being, through the interm ediary o f a B o-
dhisattva w ho has incarnated in that hum an being, thereby supply­
ing the fit, ready, and fully conscious interm ediate vehicle or
carrier. This “ hum an being ” has no karm ic ego of its own. The
egoity, the ego, the interm ediate part, the highly ethereal and fully
conscious interm ediary, the spiritual-hum an elem ent, is supplied
b y the incarnating B od h isa ttv a ; that is to say, the highly evolved
personal principles o f a B uddha, otherw ise a N irm anakaya— n ot
236 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
the highest elem ent o f that B uddha, w hich is in N irv a n a ; bu t
the spiritual-personal elem ent of the B uddha, glorious, pure, and
great, the spiritual-personal ego— enters into the b o d y o f that
u tterly pure hum an being before or shortly after its birth, and
thus supplies the interm ediate vehicle appropriate for the incar­
nation o f the L og oic R ay. T hat is an A vatara.
F or instance, a child is born. T hat child has an inner p sy ch o­
astral nature of transparent purity and beau ty and it attracts
m agnetically, if you like, bu t spiritually, actually, a R a y from
the Logos. Its ow n H igher Self is fully active, of course, and the
L ogoic R a y — w hich is Itself— m anifests in It. Furtherm ore, a
B odhisattva, under the conditions w hich prevail when an A vatara
is required on earth, enters that b o d y also, thus supplying the
egoic elem ent. So, then, we have this m arvelous thing : a pure
hum an b o d y w ith its prana and astral m od el-bod y ; bu t w ith no
true karm ic ego incarnating, a B odh isattva supplying that egoic
elem ent of still greater purity than possible to ordinary m en, and
evolved to the degree required for the incarnation o f the L og oic
or A tm ic R ay , that L ogoic R a y and the H igher Self o f the born
child really being One. B u t this m ystery in life is a very
exceptional circum stance.
N ow let us turn to another facet o f the sam e psych ological
subject. Take the case of the L ord B uddha. Please notice that
we here speak o f the “ L ord B uddha ” , although we speak o f the
great Man as Siddhartha, his personal nam e, and o f the Sage
G autam a, or G autam a-Sakyam uni. G autam a was his fam ily
n a m e ; Sakya, his C lan -n am e; the title o f “ ¡Sakyam uni” the
Sakya Sage— was the title given to him in later life and after.
W hen Sakyam uni entered N irvana during life, he is then exoteric-
ally said to have “ died ” , at the age o f eighty years ; bu t our
teachings show him actually to have lived to one hundred years
before he gave up his physical b od y and rem ained on earth as a
N irm anakaya. N ow we all know w hat a N irm anakaya is ; it is
a com plete m an m inus the physical b o d y only. B u t is that all
there is of this w ondrous M ystery ? It is not. The higher portions
o f the B uddha were in N irv a n a ; yet the spiritual-personal ego
rem ained on earth, active, an active entity, a force for spiritual
good as a N irm anakaya, overshadow ed b y the Nirv&nic elem ent,
and this N irm anakaya was, please n ote carefully, a hum an B o­
dhisattva. It is the teaching that this B odh isattva, the egoic
elem ent of the B uddha-G autam a, as was the case w ith previous
B uddhas, was a spiritual-hum an R a y from the globe D hyani-
B odhisattva.
Y ou perceive the difficulty, the extrem e difficulty, in m aking
these subtil and highly spiritual subjects clear to m inds untrained
in our m etaphysic. A ctu ally they require years o f deep thought.
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 237
L et us look at it from another aspect again. W h o was Jesus ?
W h at was Jesus ? W h o was A pollonius o f T yan a ? W h at was
he ? The teaching is that b oth were incarnations of a N irm ána-
káya, and b oth had the sam e m ysterious connexion w ith the
B odh isattva o f the B uddha-G autam a. Please understand that
A pollonius was n ot an A vatára, though Jesus was. There are
close p sych ological sim ilarities betw een these tw o w onder-cases
o f h is to r y ; b u t th ey are n ot identically the sam e m ystery. I
m erely note here in passing that m ystically a B uddha stands
higher than an A vatára, for reasons w hich w ill be explained in
due course o f our study.
L et us go a step farther. Y o u all have read o f the incarnations
o f the B uddhas in T ibet. W e are now speaking in exoteric
language, such as you will read in Sven H edin or various others
o f the E uropean explorers. Som e o f them h ave seen these so-called
incarnations of the B uddha. Please understand on ce for all that
our School is not Lam aism ; our S chool is representative of the
A rchaic, E soteric, W isd om o f the W orld , although it is true on
the other hand that the esoteric side of T ibetan Lam aism , properly
understood, is the nearest doctrinal approach to the doctrines, in
large degree, o f our S c h o o l; w ith all the faults that the Tibetans
m ay have, w ith all the various draw backs, that we W esterners
m ay consider them as having, in one w ay or another, nevertheless
the esoteric teaching in T ibet is nearer to that of our School than
any other.
B u t h ow did this very curious and interesting doctrine of the
continued reincarnations of the B uddha in the T ibetan Tashi-
Lám a and the D alai-Lám a, and in various others of the B uddhist
hierarchy in various m onasteries in T ibet, originate ? It origin­
ated in the m other-doctrine that we are now studying. Y ou will
rem em ber that H. P. B lavatsky speaks in the passage in T h e
S e cr e t D o c tr in e that we are n ow studying, o f an event that h ap­
pened before the separation o f the sexes in the T hird R oot-R a ce,
w hen a certain “ spiritual being ” incarnated in m en ; and she
says that this was n ot a race, but, after this W on drou s Being,
becam e a succession o f great spiritual entities. It is actually,
Com rades, the p a s s in g o n of the inner self, the ego if you like, the
ethereal m an, o f that original W on drou s B eing that cam e to
hum ankind from superior spheres in order to enlighten and to
save m ankind, beginning w ith the T hird R oot-R a ce— passing on
dow n through the ages thereafter in vehicles o f hum an flesh and
m entality even to our present tim e. Y o u will rem em ber how she
speaks o f this W on drou s B eing as a m an, and yet n ot a m an, one
concerning w hom legends are rife in the Orient. In all ages there
have been m ysterious allusions to the M aster-Initiate, to the
Great One, to the H ead o f all Teachers, to the Silent W atcher, to
R
238 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
the Great Initiator, and so forth and so forth. Tibetan L&maism
drew this teaching o f the continued reincarnations of the B uddha
from that fact. This is an interesting question, and perhaps som e
day, if the Teacher perm its, we shall investigate it m ore fu lly ; bu t we
cannot tou ch upon T ibetan Lam aism at greater length this evening.
It is necessary, how ever, to understand that the difference
betw een the transm ission of an egoic elem ent as in the B uddhaic
line in T ibet, and those exceptional incarnations called the
A vataras, is in one sense g r e a t; and in another sense th ey are
very m uch alike. T h ey are very m uch alike in this, that in b oth
cases the U padhi (or vehicle) chosen for the m anifestation o f the
superior en tity is a hum an being. A lso in b oth cases the p sych o-
ethereal U padhi is a B odh isattva ; that is to say, in the case o f
an A vatara, the B odh isattva is the glorified personal m an of a
B uddha, of a M anushya-Buddha ; the lam aic succession is also
bodh isattvic, bu t o f inferior intensity, so to say— a bodh isattvic
in flu e n c e , rather than a full incarnation o f a B odhisattva, as in
the case of an A vatara.
The doctrines that students of B uddhism set forth in the book s
w hich th ey publish on B uddhism , in the W est, are of course those
w hich they derive from the B uddhist books them selves, usually
w ith very inadequate understanding o f the subtil points o f that
m ost spiritual of all religions ; and unquestionably these scholars
strive to understand and truthfully and honestly to set forth that
w hich they believe to be the real m eaning of B uddhist teachings.
B u t it is an am azing thing that they do not succeed better ; and
the reason is that th ey com e to their stu dy w ith m aterialistic
W estern m inds, m aterialistic W estern preconceptions and preju­
dices. T h ey com e to their stu dy in an attitude o f m ind w hich
th ey them selves d o n ot recognise as existing, and hence talk
sagely— when they fail to grasp m eanings— o f the “ superstitious
extravagances of Oriental im agery ” , etc. etc. N ow how is it
possible to understand the real nature or the real essence of any­
thing if you begin you r stu dy w ith the prepossessing idea that you
know better and m ore than did the persons w ho w rote the things
w hich you are studying ? Such egoism destroys sym path y and
obscures true vision ; and if you r stu dy be o f religious subjects,
all statem ents m ade or doctrines form ulated inevitably you will
look upon as " m onkish vagaries ” . B ut, as was poin ted out in
other studies, there is no exoteric doctrine belonging to the great
a n c ie n t w orld-religions w hich is intrinsically false. The fact is
that the exoteric teaching is the truth, but it needs a key in order
to explain i t ; and w ithout the key it actually can be, and usually
is, m isunderstood and m isinterpreted, and degraded in a m anner
very sim ilar to that o f w hich we spoke upon opening our stu dy
this evening.
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 239
L et us now turn to another subject connected w ith this, col­
lateral, and show ing another facet of the Jewel. T hey tell us that
the hum an B uddha, the M anushya-Buddha G autam a-Sakyam uni,
was born 643 years before the first year of the accepted beginning
of the Christian era. Our doctrine tells us further that a hum an
R acial B uddha com es at the beginning of, and a m inor one pre­
ceding the m iddle poin t of, a R oot-R a ce. I call your attention
to the fact that we are now approaching the m iddle point of our
F ifth R oot-R a ce. W e are in the fourth Sub-R ace of that F ifth
R oot-R a ce, n ot in the fifth S u b-R ace thereof. Please get this
point clear in you r m inds. It w ill be betw een sixteen thousand
and tw en ty thousand years yet before the R acial Cataclysm will
ensue w hich will cut our F ifth R oot-R a ce in tw o, exa ctly as
happened to the F ou rth -R ace Atlanteans and to the T h ird -R ace
Lem urians w ho preceded them ; and as it will happen to the tw o
R oot-R a ces w hich will follow ours, the Sixth and Seventh.
N ow the reason w h y som e of our form er students supposed that
racially we are now in the fif t h Sub-R ace, is on account o f a m is­
interpretation, very pardonable it is true, because we all know
that the subject of cycles and num bers is alw ays closely veiled ;
this m isinterpretation or m isconception appears to have arisen
from w hat H. P. B lavatsky w rites in V olum e II of T h e S ecr et
D o c tr in e on pages 435 and 445 ; and I desire to call you r attention
to the fact that one o f the com m onest “ blinds ” that a Teacher
is obligated to m ake when w riting of esoteric m atters in a public
w ork is u s in g th e sa m e w ord in v a ry in g sen ses. There is an esoteric
obligation to do so w hen it is necessary, in order to tell the truth
for those w ho can and w ho m ay read, and yet to hide it from the
" dogs ” and “ swine ” and “ foxes ” , if you will forgive m y use
here o f the N ew Testam ent or Syrian " jargon I call you r
attention in the above connexion to T h e S ecret D o c tr in e , V olum e I,
page xliii. This I will read now : “ E ach R ou n d being com ­
posed of the Y ugas [that is, the Ages] of the seven periods [R oot-
R aces] of H um anity ; four of which are now passed in o u r life
cycle, the m iddle poin t of the fifth being nearly reached ” . I call
you r attention also to page 610 of the same volum e of T h e S ecret
D o c tr in e where H . P. B lavatsky says : “ B ut as we are in the
m id-poin t of our S u b -R a c e of the fifth R oot-R a ce— the acm e of
m ateriality in each— therefore the anim al propensities, though
m ore refined ” , etc. The “ acm e of m ateriality in each ” means
on ly one thing : the m id d le p o in t o f the fo u r th o f a n y c y c lic a l ser ies :
for instance, th e fo u r th P r im a r y S u b -R a c e ; the fo u r th S u b -R a c e
o f the F o u r th P r im a r y S u b -R a c e of the F ifth R oot-R a ce, and
so forth.
Suppose that for con venien ce’ sake we divide the Races in the
follow ing w ay— " R o o t ’ ’-R a ce really m eaning the first or root- or
240 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
originating P rim ary Sub-R ace, bu t com m on ly applied to all the
seven successive P rim ary S ub-R aces o f a “ R o o t ’ ’-R a ce and all
the m an y other sm aller sub-races included in those seven. The
first “ Root ’ ’-R a ce then is the First P rim ary S u b-R ace, o f w hich
P rim ary S ub-R aces there are seven in the great R acial C y c le ;
then the Secondary S u b-R ace, seven o f them in each Prim ary
S u b -R a c e ; then seven F am ily-R aces in each S econdary Sub-
R ace ; then seven N ational R aces in each F am ily-R ace. W e
need go no farther. A few steps m ore in the series and you w ill
com e to the unit-entity, or individual m an. B u t please also
exam ine page 147 and page 710 of V olum e II, for th ey will well
repay you r close stu dy o f them .
In another part o f The Secret Doctrine you will rem em ber that
H . P. B lavatsky, in speaking o f the Precessional C ycle o f 25,920
years, here giving the ancient figures, calls it the cycle o f a F am ily-
R ace, that is to say, the R ace including seven N ational R aces.
Our E uropean R ace is a F a m ily -R a c e ; and hence when she
speaks o f the lifetim e o f our F am ily-R ace she says it has abou t
16.000 m ore years to run. So you see that from our ordinary
hum an view point we are n ot yet very near the great R acial
C ataclysm ; but from the standpoint o f the cycles o f the age o f
a R oot-R a ce so short a period as 16,000 years is like saying
“ to-m orrow ” , or even the “ n ext hour ” . A short period of
16.000 or 20,000 years is insignificant in duration in the dram a
o f the soul.
A n d H . P. B lavatsky som ewhere— I think it was in her m aga­
zine Lucifer in 1887, or 1888— alludes very graphically to the
earthquakes then reported in the newspapers as occurring, and
she calls them the forerunners of that w hich is goin g to happen to
us as a Race. B ut is A m erica the hom e to be o f the “ 6th Sub-
R ace ” ? Y es. Which S u b-R ace ? “ S u b-R ace ” is vague
enough ! Is it to be a sixth Family-Race ? B u t if A m erica is
then to be in about 16,000 years, or the latter part o f a preces­
sional cycle o f 25,920 years from now , the h om e o f the Sixth
F am ily-R ace, H . P. B lavatsky goes on im m ediately, in a m asterly
w ay, ju st as any initiate w ould, to lead the m ind on, and she says
that A m erica is also to be the seed-land, the nursery, of the sixth
R oot-R a ce, a statem ent also true, but including a vast period of
years betw een the tw o poin ts ! W h en that latter far-distant d ay
dawns A m erica will then n o longer be. M uch o f the land o f the
A m ericas that is now above the waters will then be under them ,
and new land, now form ing the sea-bottom , will have arisen above
its surface. F or all |we know , N orth and South A m erica m ay be
m ore w idely united. N ew land (as the Teacher here present calls
to m e to say) will rise out of the present Pacific, thus raising the old
Lem urian beds again, to be join ed to us here on our W estern coasts.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 241
So when we read o f “ sub-races '' let us bew are, let us be careful,
lest the m olds o f our m inds, m isleading us, lead us astray after
m ere w ords w hich are “ blinds ''. Break the m olds of you r m inds
at all costs ! Free you r m inds, keep them plastic I R efuse to
take as the sole truth any isolated statem ent w hatsoever, w herever
you m ay find it. T a k e i t , but n ot alone ; contrast it, com pare it,
stu d y it and analyse it if you w ant the truth. E specially is this
necessary w hen it is a question o f cycles, and of the w ords dealing
w ith cycles. W atch carefully when you see the w ord “ sub-race " ,
w atch carefully w hen you read o f the “ B u ddh a ''. W h ich
B u ddh a ? O r o f the " B odh isattva ''— w hich one ?
So we p ostp on e for a later and m ore exten ded stu dy the subjects
w hich we have attem pted this evening to outline. M uch m ore
should, and w ith our T eacher's perm ission will, be said abou t
this W on drou s Being. B u t, in conclusion, I beg tw o things, first
that m y w ords be n ot m isunderstood. W e feel deeply the h eavy
responsibility that the Teacher has laid u pon us in our studies
here. I think it a w onderful thing to com e here and look at the
faces of m y com rades in the T eacher's presence, and to realize
the beautiful spirit of fraternal u n ity that is here ; to realize that
each one to the best of his or her pow er is in fullest sym path y
w ith all the other com rades. It is a blessing, and personally I
feel it is as a benediction. B u t, in closing, do n ot m isconstrue
m y w ords abou t this W on drou s Being. R em em ber the series.
F irst the L ogos, the A di-B u d dh a ; then the seven D hyanis, each
one o f the seven inspiring and overseeing one of the seven R ounds,
w h o is the Causal B uddha, the sun if you like, em anating out
innum erable inferior beings. Then the D h yani-B odhisattvas, for
each globe o f the P lanetary Chain, seven of them ; and seven
M anushya-B uddhas, one such for each one o f the seven R o o t-
R aces on each globe during each R ou nd. There are p rob ab ly
alm ost num berless cases where a B odh isattva, a B u dd h ic ray, as
the cycles of tim e pass, reaches out from the L od ge of our M asters,
where the Great Initiator, the H ighest One, is, the M an-E m anation
o f the W on drou s B eing, and inspires and instils the A ncient
W isd om into the soul of som e great and pure hum an being, such
as was Jesus o f N azareth, and A pollonius of T yana, and m any,
m an y others w hose nam es are n ot fam iliar to us W esterners.
A n d in the initiations— and we recollect this on ly at the present
m om ent, and it m ust be said before finishing— in the initiations
there are three things that take place. T h ey are d irectly con ­
nected w ith the su bject o f the W ondrous B eing and the B odhi-
sattvas. R em em ber th at initiation is the quickening or enlivening
o f the soul o f one w ho is prepared. It is a quickening-process o f
evolu tion , for producing a m ore rapid evolvin g o f the inner m an,
w hich otherw ise an ordinary m an w ou ld achieve on ly after m any
242 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
ages. In these initiations, and in the fifth, to particularize, there
occurs w hat is called the T h e o p h a n y . The Christians use that w ord
and also E p ip h a n y , w hich is a m inor form o f the sam e thing, and
th ey say it should be celebrated on the 4 th -6 th o f January, the
m atter having direct relation w ith the calendar o f the solar year
o f w hich w e spoke in our last study, but w hich we have no tim e to
go into tonight. T h e o p h a n y originally m eant the a p p ea r a n ce o f
a g o d . It actu ally is the follow in g m ystery : in the fifth initiation,
the hum an being under trial, the chela under trial, m eets h is ow n
g o d -s e lf fa c e to fa c e , and for a longer or shorter tim e becom es on e
w ith i t . H e then know s truth ; you w ill rem em ber that the on ly
w a y o f really understanding a thing, is to becom e th a t th in g . A n d
that is the real m eaning o f w hat takes place in the true, real
initiations, and the E p ip h a n y is a m inor m anifestation o f the
T h e o p h a n y . It is a Greek w ord m eaning shining upon, or illum in­
ating ; whereas T h e o p h a n y m eans the shining forth visib ly o f a
g od — the m a n 's ow n in n e r H ig h e r S e l f .
If the T h eop h an y is m ore or less com plete upon the ending o f
the initiation or the trial, the chela then has T h e o p n e u sty , m eaning
divine inspiration. H e is con sciou sly united w ith his inner god,
his H igher Self. L iterally, the inner god o f the candidate breathes
dow n into him , for a longer or shorter tim e, depending upon his
advancem ent, the w isdom and the know ledge o f all the universe, so
to say, in degree greater or less, depending upon the candidate's
advancem ent and recep tivity.
The highest o f all the ancient initiation-achievem ents, in
Greece was called the T h e o p a th y , m eaning “ suffering a god " , not
a god w h o suffers, b u t one w ho suffers the conscious entrance
in to him o f a god. This is n ot, o f course, an A vatara, w hich is
som ething else entirely, as w e have show n above ; bu t it m eans
that at initiation and for a less or greater tim e afterw ards, a ccord ­
ing to the spiritual pow er and recep tivity o f the initiate, he
becom es, through that h oly presence in him , a w alking, living
god, h is ow n Inner Self. F in ally, our Teachers tell us that in som e
rare cases the T h e o p h a n y , the T h e o p n e u s ty , and the T h e o p a th y
last as long as does the life on earth o f the Initiate.
C H A P T E R X X I
INITIATIONS AND THE ANCIENT MYSTERIES. ROOT-RACES AND
THEIR SUBDIVISIONS. GLOBE ROUNDS. PLANETARY ROUNDS.
SOLAR KALPAS : HOW CALCULATED. RACIAL CATACLYSMS.
” As to the Philosophy, by whose assistance the Mysteries were developed
(and which, we may say, they were designed to teach), it is coeval with the
Universe itself ; and, however its continuity may be broken by opposing systems,
it will make its appearance at different periods of time, as long as the sun himself
shall continue to illuminate the world. It has, indeed, and may hereafter be
violently assailed by delusive opinions ; but the opposition will be just as imbecile
as that of the waves of the sea against a temple built on a rock, which majestically
pours them back, broken and vanquished, foaming to the main. However it
may be involved in oblivion in barbarous and derided in impious ages, it will
again flourish— through all the infinite revolutions of time.”
Eleusinian and Bacchic Mysteries, by T homas Taylor.
Hence in the Smaragdine Tablet, disfigured by Christian hands :
” The Superior agrees with the Inferior ; and the Inferior with the Superior ;
to effect that one truly wonderful Work ”— which is Man. For the secret work
of Chiram, or King Hiram in the Kabala, ” one in Essence, but three in Aspect,”
is the Universal Agent or Lapis Philosophorum. The culmination of the Secret
Work is Spiritual Perfect Man, at one end of the line ; the union of the three
elements is the Occult Solvent in the ” Soul of the World,” the Cosmic Soul or
Astral Light, at the other ; . . .
The Secret Doctrine (H. P. Blavatsky), II, 113.
" The intention of all mystic ceremonies is to conjoin us with the world of
the Gods." Sallust.
” The design of the Mysteries is to lead us back to the perfection from which,
as a Principle, we first made our descent.” Plato
” Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall sec God ” [i.e., their own Inner
Jesus (in the Sermon on the Mount).
“ I had heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine eye secth thee.”
Job (a Story of Initiation).
W
E continue our stu dy o f the subjects w hich w e have
been treating o f for som e weeks past ; bu t this
evening we are goin g to speak o f another m atter
collateral w ith our m ain them e yet very im portant ;
and at our next m eeting we shall endeavor to take up the
scattered threads w hich we have unloosened, b oth in generaliza­
tion and in particular, and gather th em together and w eave them
into a consistent w hole, m aking as nearly as possible a clearer
picture for our brain-m inds o f w hat we can understand at present
243
244 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
o f the Seventh Treasury o f W isdom . A lso, if w e have tim e this
evening, w e shall endeavour very briefly to treat o f a m atter left
incom plete at our last m eeting, that is to say, the question o f the
seven R oot-R a ces o f m ankind through w hich the hum an w ave o f
life passes during the present F ou rth R ou n d on our globe.
W e open our stu dy this evening in reading from V olum e I o f
T h e S e cr e t D o c tr in e , page 424, the extract w hich we have read
before, bu t it is convenient to read it again this evening :
To thoroughly comprehend the idea underlying every ancient
cosmology necessitates the study, in a comparative analysis, of all the
great religions of antiquity ; as it is only by this method that the root-
idea will be made plain. Exact science— could the latter soar so high,
while tracing the operations of nature to their ultimate and original
sources— would call this idea the hierarchy of Forces. The original,
transcendental and philosophical conception was one. But as systems
began to reflect with every age more and more the idiosyncrasies of
nations ; and as the latter, after separating, settled into distinct
groups, each evolving along its own national or tribal groove, the
main idea gradually became veiled with the overgrowth of human
fancy. While in some countries the Forces, or rather the intelligent
Powers of nature, received divine honors they were hardly entitled to,
in others— as now in Europe and the civilized lands— the very thought
of any such Force being endowed with intelligence seems absurd, and
is proclaimed u n scien tific.
N ote the calm bu t trenchant iron y in this extract. I m erely
call attention to it before passing on. N ow this extract, though
dealing w ith the various aspects w hich the ancient religions took
as the ages passed, leading to their differentiations into the
so-called great religions o f the w orld, nevertheless fits in very w ell
b y analogy and b y com parison w ith the su bject w hich we are
going to treat in particular, although briefly, this evening, that is
to say the question o f initiations and the ancient M ysteries,
and also a m uch m isunderstood fact in nature closely con n ected
w ith the ancient M ysteries, w hich was evolved into a doctrine b y
the ancients and called b y them the Succession o f Teachers—
g u r u p a r a m p a r a in Sanskrit, and d istortedly and fain tly reflected
in the “ A postolical Succession ” in the Christian schem e.
The Christian Church very early to o k over that doctrine o f the
Succession o f Teachers, w ith m uch other th eological tim ber, from
the old religions o f the countries bordering the M editerranean
Sea ; and the doctrine w hich it took over becam e for that
Church the so-called “ A p ostolic Succession ” o f the Church o f
R om e, the popes succeeding one another and claim ing to be the
“ successors ” o f the fisherm an-apostle o f Galilee, Sim on Peter.
W e d o n ot care to go into this aspect o f the m atter, for it is useless
for our present purpose, and no benefit can be gained b y i t ; bu t
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 245
w herever we look and w hatever line o f hum an social or religious
a ctivity we m ay ch oose to take for our study, we shall alw ays
find that there is a passing on of authority or a passing on o f
teachings, or o f both . T h e various heads of even our p olitical
bodies succeed one another, and usually carry on a p olitical
tradition. “ B ig businesses 9
9 succeed one another, and usually
pass on, from m an to m an, a tradition o f com m ercial p olicy and
expansion ; and so forth , and so forth. It is sim ply an exem pli­
fication in ordinary practical life o f a rule o f nature ; that is to
say, that m an, being a m ortal being, having to die, but being an
en tity o f th ou gh t and o f heart, does n ot want to see that w hich
he feels to be good, or w hich he believes to be good, l o s t ; and so
he transfers either authority or teaching, or both , to another
w hom he considers fit and capable to carry on his teaching or
authority, or both .
It is in the religious field o f hum an activity that this system is
m ost m arked, and where the feeling is the strongest. A succes­
sion o f “ prophets ” succeeding each other in the ancient
M ysteries ; a succession o f hierophants succeeding each other
therein, is a fact w ell know n to us, even ordinary know ledge such
as you m ay find in an en cyclopedia or in sch ool-books.
In Greece, for instance, in taking the Eleusinian M ysteries as an
exam ple, w e know that the H ierophants were drawn from one
fam ily, the Eumolpidae, livin g in A thens, and the Torchbearers
were drawn from another fam ily, the Lycomidae, living in A thens ;
and we have reason to believe that the M ysteries o f Sam othrace,
the seat o f an older rite, and w hich were, like the M ysteries o f
Eleusis, a state-function, were also con du cted in the same m anner
b y the passing on o f the tradition held sacred and incom m unicable
to outsiders ; and the b on d o f union betw een the initiates o f these
so-called M ysteries, was considered indissoluble, im possible o f
dissolution, for death m erely strengthened the tie.
N ow outside of the fact that m en like to pass on w hat th ey
think and believe to be good , w hence arose throughout the
various countries of the w orld o f w hich w e have som e know ledge,
the rem arkable m ystic sim ilarities we know of, w hence cam e to
them all the closely sim ilar know ledge and authority w hich were
passed on from one H ead to another ? It m ust have com e from
som ewhere. M en no longer believe in the em p ty philosoph ico-
scientific th eory or fallacy o f fifty years ago, to the effect that, for
instance, six m en, livin g in six different isles, w ill inevitably and
infallibly tread six m ore or less identical paths o f m ental and
physical thought and cerem ony. It was once a scientific heresy
to doubt that theory. It was called a " fact " , though there
were no facts to prove i t ; it was a th eory m erely, having no
other foundation than im agination overw orked in order to
246 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
find an explanation o f sim ilarities and identities such as the
above.
L et us say here that a T heosophist looks w ith respect and
reverence u pon the discoveries o f the m any great and noble-
m inded m en w ho have given us brighter view s into the shell o f
nature, the outw ard physical shell, and w hose lives often are
m odels o f self-sacrifice ; bu t w hile w e recognise that every new
light shed into our m inds, show ing us new view s into the heart
o f nature, is g ood for us, and furtherm ore w ill tend finally
to p rove ou r ow n doctrines, nevertheless every thinking
T heosophist, and particularly every E sotericist, every O ccultist,
every m em ber o f this School, draws a sharp line o f distinc­
tion betw een S c ie n c e , the noble know ledge o f classified truth,
and the th eo ries o f sc ie n tis ts . W e accept a th eory if it is
good, bu t on ly as a t h e o r y ; and it m ust be corroborated b y
N ature herself before any Theosophist w ill accept it as a fact, as a
part o f Science p e r s e .
So, then, w e receive the follow in g b it o f know ledge from our
Teachers— our Masters have told us— that this particular doctrine
w hich in the Church o f R om e is called the “ A p ostolic Succession ” ,
and in the ancient M ysteries was called the P a s s in g o f the W o r d ,
the P a s s in g o f the K n o w le d g e , the P a s s in g o f the A u t h o r it y , or b y
som e sim ilar expression, originated in this our ow n Order, but
ob viou sly n ot in our lifetim e. W e are m erely a generation, one
o f m any, carrying on the tradition o f the K now ledge w hich
originated in the final ages o f that vanished continent, Lem uria,
and was m ore particularly d eveloped in A tlantis, where were first
established the A ncient M ysteries o f w hich w e are to-d a y the
ultim ate and outw ard sign o f the inw ard and spiritual truth.
A s in the highest o f our Lodges, w e are taught, the T ru th is
passed from the great M aster-Initiator to his successor to the
Truth and the A u th ority, so in the inferior Lodges, the same
system is follow ed ; and we in our W ork m erely carry on the sam e
tradition. It is saddening to see h ow learned ignoram uses w ith
high-sounding nam es, or p ossibly w ith an alphabetical string of
academ ic titles after their nam es, som etim es talk about the
M ysteries o f w hich th ey can really know nothing outside o f the
scattered data foun d im bodied in old literature. T h ey are mere
bookm en , readers, and n ot u n derstan d ers; it is also truly
p ath etic to hear som e folk talk about the non-necessity o f having
a leader, because th ey believe that one m an is as g ood as another,
and that no m an can be very m uch better than another, and to see
their opinion that all this talk about spiritual, inner light and
illum ination passed on from Initiate to Initiate is just thingum -
b o b b e r y !
A re th ey wise ? B u t ask them for p roof o f their theory, and
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y 247
th ey can give you none. N o p roof w hatsoever ; it is pure specula­
tion. On the con trary, point out to them even such facts as we
know , or the things o f w hich history has left certain records in her
annals, where invariably you w ill find the same old tradition
com ing dow n the ages o f the passing dow n of the know ledge and
o f the authority and o f the doctrine.
N ow w hen we speak o f M ysteries and initiations we use those
w ords in a sense w hich to us is sacred, and w ith no w ish or desire,
far less w ith any attem pt, to create a false and m ischievous atm o­
sphere of em otionalism . W e speak o f facts. Y ou know that every
m em ber o f our School is m ore or less a scientist, i .e ., a know er and
researcher. W e are taught to use our brains and our m inds and
our wills first o f all for self-conquest, and then to analyse properly
ourself and the w orld we live in. H as not our present Teacher
told us again and again that we m ust consult our consciences
before we accept anything ? In order to do that, we have to
think ; we also know that even if in doing so we should, throu g h
o u r ow n b lin d n e s s , or in c a p a c ity , reject a truth offered to us, we
shall nevertheless have done aright, because we have been faithful
to ourselves, to our consciences, and also faithful to our Teacher,
and that the karm an o f that rejection w ill be m erely tem porary,
because the inner m an understands, and the truth in tim e w ill
dawn in faithful hearts. A fter all, how greatly preferable it is to
do so in all honesty and purity o f soul, than to be like som e w h o
have entered this sacred b o d y from im proper m otives, and w ith
en vy and jealou sy in their hearts and perhaps hon eyed w ords on
their lips. H eaven help them !
W e are taught that the M ysteries— we take those of Greece for
an exam ple— were divided into tw o parts. L et us particularize :
take those o f Eleusis. Y ou w ill rem em ber, as was pointed out at
our last m eeting, that Eleusis as a w ord means A d v e n t, T h e
C o m in g , that w hich is com ing, the prom ise. As the M ysteries o f
Sam othrace were rather w hat we w ould call scientific, dealing m ore
w ith the operations of N ature, and the origin of those operations
and the m ethod o f con trolling them , and teaching w hat th ey led
to — in other w ords what we w ould to-d a y call sc ie n c e ; so the
teachings at Eleusis were rather those religious and philosophic
doctrines o f esotericism givin g to m en w hat the great R om an
orator, Cicero, called a brighter view o f life and a livelier hope as
regarded death, because th ey taught o f the things w hich are to be,
m ore particularly the so-called, and thoughtlessly so-called,
“ dark m ysteries o f death These Eleusinia were divided into
tw o parts, as said above, the Less M ysteries and the Greater
M ysteries. The Less M ysteries were celebrated in the early
springtim e, m ore or less abou t the tim e o f the Anthesteria, the
Flow er-F estival, and th e celebrations took place at a sm all tow n
248 FUNDAM ENTALS O F TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
called Agrae. T h ose M ysteries were m ainly dram atic in form ,
w ith this one ob je ct in v ie w : to prepare him or her w h o was
initiated in to these Less M ysteries, better to understand, m ore
qu ick ly to apprehend, and m ore easily to seize w ith the m ind,
that w h ich he was to go through in the G reater M ysteries o f
E leusis, p rovidin g that in the interim and during the tim e of
trial he p roved him self true and fit and clean.
E ven in th e days w hen early C hristianity had superseded the
degenerate and corru pt religions o f the M editerranean countries,
even then, fallen as the E leusinia were from their form er high
state, yet th ey w ere considered so h igh ly that initiations still
to o k place in them . T h ey were actu ally finally stopp ed on the
initiative o f the Pagans them selves, the sch ool closed b y an order
o f the Christian E m peror Justinian in Constantinople, but closed
on the p etition o f the better o f the so-called Pagans them selves.
T h e truth is that the M ysteries w ere n ot overcom e b y Christianity,
b u t fell because o f intrinsic degeneracy. Can we im agine w hat
those m en m ust have felt in the d ay w hen th ey saw th at w hich was
dearer to th em than life closed and ended b y their ow n w ill,
invaded and degraded b y degenerate rites and beliefs, and, d ou b t­
less, also b y the Christian fanatics ?
N ow the dram atizations in the Less M ysteries were n ot w hat
we w ou ld call “ plays ” , ex a ctly ; th ey were “ p lays ” in one
sense because th ey w ere dram as. B u t th ey were enacted in the
form o f spectacles in w hich the w ou ld-be disciple, the initiant or
the one to be initiated, had to take the m ain part him self or
herself. L et us give a concrete exam ple, w hich at least w ill be
interesting, and perhaps illum inating, rem em bering that there
were various kinds o f styles o f initiations and o f M ysteries existing
in the different countries ; but fundam entally th ey were all one
and still tod a y are one in the great secret sodalities ; bu t in each
cou n try the initiations and M ysteries to o k on different aspects,
as it were ; as for instance in H industhan as com pared w ith
Greece. T h e initiator and the n eoph yte m ight use a different
language, and w ear different clothing, etc., and perhaps go
through a different rite, and so on and so on. B u t fundam entally
the idea w as the sam e the w orld over. It m ust be rem em bered
that the Sm aller M ysteries were preparations for the Greater. In
the form er, the candidate was ta u g h t, and enacted as a dram a
w hat he w ou ld have to experience p sych ically and spiritually
in the G reater Initiations.
N ow one o f these rites w as the dram a, or the trial rather, that
the neoph yte w ou ld have to pass through in a ctu ality later, in the
G reater In itiation, and it was the m eeting w ith his Inner Self, his
ow n Inner Self, n ot in the vague and abstract w ay in w h ich w e
to d a y speak o f a m an as having ” fou n d his true self ” ; bu t in
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 249
the Less Initiation the neophyte was actually put through training
and purification in order to fit him to undergo the real Test, in
w hich he m et his ow n Inner Self face to face, as another individual
apparently, at first, but at a still higher Initiation to be blended
w ith that other Self, his ow n Self, his H igher Self.
N ow this rite is one o f the Sm aller M ysteries, those o f purifi­
cation and training, and was enacted at the tow n o f Agra;, not far
from A thens, where the Less M ysteries were held, and it was
enacted dram atically. T h e n eophyte was then and there taught
to anticipate and understand w hat was com in g to him if he was
successful later in the Greater R ite. H e was frankly and openly
told at the last w hat he was there to m eet if he desired to go to
the end o f the path. A n d sim ilarly w ith the other stages or
degrees o f initiation.
N ow it is not certainly know n how m any degrees or secret stages
there were o f the Eleusinia, but we know that there were s e v e ra l;
and we know that to the very end, before th ey were finally closed
on account o f their degeneration, th ey were so carefully guarded,
so faith fu lly kept hid, that to this d ay scholars are m entally
running around in bew ilderm ent, in an endeavor to find out
what really was taught in the Eleusinia, in these M ysteries w hich
aroused the adm iration o f the greatest m en o f a n tiq u ity ; in those
o f Sam othrace likewise the circum stances o f secrecy and degree
were v ery similar.
T ake E g y p t. T he Pyram ids, we are taught, were sim ply— the
Great P yram id especially— m ajestic Initiation-Tem ples. There
to o the M ysteries and the initiations were m ost sacredly guarded
and kept secret. T h ey were kept on ly for those w ho had p roved
them selves w orth y, not b y talk but b y act, and w ho had been tried
and tested in m any different w ays. A n d w hy ? Because it was
a dangerous m atter for unprepared m inds. Our Teachers tell us
plainly that there were three results o f an initiation : one success ;
another failure, w hich often m eant d e a th ; and the third (a
partial failure) often m eant madness. B ut success m eant glory
unspeakable. W h y was it that m adness and death som etim es
ensued ? Through any outw ard punishm ent ? N o. T h e results
were w h olly from w ithin the candidates them selves. T h ey were
plainly told, these neophytes : " Com e with a clean heart, and
glory unspeakable and know ledge o f the gods shall be yours ; bu t
com e w ith a perverse and w icked heart, w ith you r m ind untrained
and w ith you r w ill unset, and you w ill never be able to face that
which you w ill have to m eet in the other w orld ” . Because that
is w hat the Greater M ysteries were, a passing behind the veil of
this physical shell. N o w onder that the training was severe,
arduous ! Those ancient m en had high hearts in their bodies and
wise old m inds.
250 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
N ow those M ysteries are n ot dead tod ay. W e are taught
distinctly that the sam e ancient truths, the sam e entrance into
glory, the sam e beautiful realization of the highest hopes that
m an bears in the secret recesses o f his heart, the same surpassing
know ledge of life and being : all can be had b y him w ho w ills and
w ho d a res and w ho k n o w s how to k eep s i l e n t : and we are told that
the true E soteric Pathw ay is here, in this our ow n H oly Order.
T hat is what the Masters have taught us through their repre­
sentatives, the third one of w hom , in our age, sits am ong us this
evening. T h ey also have taught us another great truth, that it is
n ot a s in e q u a n o n for success to have a m ighty brain-m ind, for
th ey have told us plainly that even som e o f their ow n B rothers,
som e o f the M asters them selves, are such b y virtue of their
spiritual grandeur, and not b y virtue of any brain-m ind em inence
alone nor o f any particular m ental pow er ; and they have told us
further that such of the Masters, spiritual sons of glory, m ay
stand high even am ong them selves. W e are further taught that
this brain-m ind o f ours is very often a hindrance to u s ; it is
indeed a m ost useful servant if we keep it a servant, bu t it is a
m aster w hich will in evitably put our feet upon the left-hand path
unless illum ined and guided b y the spiritual nature, because all its
thoughts are thoughts o f self, and all its thinking is for gratifica­
tion of its ow n desires ; its horizons are lim ited, and its ou tlook
is s h o r t; its self-born inspirations are few and far betw een ; and
it is m ortal and dies w ith the b od y. It depends upon ourselves
as to w hich side of our nature, the higher or the lower, we shall, as
W illiam Quan Judge used to say, nail our faith, pin it there and
keep it there.
The oth er m atter m entioned at the beginning of our stu dy this
evening we shall have to treat very briefly. It is that of the R aces
through w hich m ankind, as a L ife-W ave, passes in its jou rn ey
from the beginning o f evolu tion on this globe to its end. Y o u w ill
rem em ber that there are seven such R oot-R a ces w hich form the
evolu tion ary C ycle, in this F ourth R ou nd , w hich is w hat we call
one G lobe-R ou n d ; and we are at the present tim e, as said before,
i n th e fo u r t h S u b -R a c e o f o u r p r e s e n t F i f t h R o o t-R a c e . There is
confusion about these R aces in the m inds o f som e students, because
our first Teacher, H . P. B lavatsky, as was poin ted out at our last
m eeting, was under the necessity w hen she w rote, of keeping quiet,
or rather hid, certain teachings w hich she was not then em pow ered
pu blicly to give out. H ad there been the proper appeal from her
students, perhaps she w ould have done so then. A t any rate, our
present Teacher, K atherine Tingley, has perm itted us to give a
short outline, w hich w e shall use in an attem pt to illustrate this
rather difficult subject. L et each line of the follow ing diagram
represent a R oot-R a ce.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 251
There are seven lines (or R oot-R a ces), and you will n otice that
the junction-line, beginning one R oot-R a ce out o f the preceding
R oot-R a ce, is at the m iddle point o f the form er, that is, at the
fourth S u b-R ace o f the preceding or M other-R ace. It is so in all
the lines (or R oot-R a ces). N ow we are at present in the F ifth
R oot-R a ce, tw o races short o f the com pletion o f our globe-cycle
or globe-R ou n d , and our present F ifth R oot-R a ce is alm ost at the
poin t, the m iddle o f our F ifth R oot-R a ce, where the Sixth R o o t-
R ace to com e will branch off. E ach R oot-R a ce, each o f the seven,
is divided in our teachings into seven m inor R aces as follow s.
N otice the recurrence of the num ber seven :
1 .
2.
3-
O ne 4.
R o o t- « 5.
R ace.
6.
7-
Prim ary S ub-R ace (7 m inor divisions of it)
S econdary S u b-R ace (7 » )
Fam ily R ace (7 » )
N ational R ace (7 » )
T ribal R ace (7 .. )
(A nother nam e m ay be suggested w hich is better than
this and the follow ing.)
A T ribal Generation (7 m inor divisions o f it).
Individu al m an (say 72 years).
W e say 72 years, because the average m an, barring accidents
and m alignant diseases w hich m ay carry him off before his time,
usually lives about 72 years. Som e hum an beings live m uch
longer, o f course. If we took cou n t o f all hum an deaths : o f the
252 FUNDAM ENTALS OF T H E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
babies w h o die in such num bers in infancy, and o f all w ho die
in shipw reck, and o f all the m en killed in wars, and o f all the
m urders and o f all the diseases, and o f the train and of
the autom obile w recks, and o f all such accidents, p rob ab ly the
averag e length o f hum an life to-d a y w ou ld n ot be m ore than 15
or 20 y e a r s ; bu t those cases, after all, are exceptional. Man
lives to-d a y, on a n a tu r a l a v era g e, abou t 72 years, barring all
accidents, etc., as above suggested.
T h e follow ing is an interesting calculation, offered on ly as a
suggestive thing. Suppose that you desire to calculate the length
o f tim e o f a R oot-R a ce, and please understand that w hat we are
saying n ow is on ly a rough approxim ation. T ake then 72 years,
the fam ous three score years and ten in the B ible— a m ystery-
figure, a round num ber for 72— and m u ltip ly it b y seven : we get
one T ribal G eneration ; m u ltip ly it b y seven again, we get one
T ribal R a c e ; m u ltiply that b y seven and we get one N ational
R ace, and you r figure w ill com e to abou t 25,920 years, the length
o f the Precessional Cycle ; m u ltiply that b y seven again, and you
get one F am ily R ace ; m u ltiply that again b y seven and y ou get
a S econdary S u b -R a c e ; and m u ltiply that b y seven once m ore
and you get a figure w hich is really the entire tim e-period of a
R oot-R a ce. This calculation is very rough num erically, and is so
intended to be ; bu t it is suggestive.
Y o u see we d o n ot cou n t the R o o t-R a ce as one o f the seven
here, bu t m ake it the all-inclusive one, and w h y ? B ecause if we
d id so cou n t it, we should be cou n tin g the P rim ary S u b-R ace
tw ice. A “ R o o t "-R a c e really ought to m ean the race w hich
originates a thing, or is its " root " . It is therefore, strictly
speaking, from the first P rim ary S u b-R ace that all the others
o f the series grow , exa ctly as the root o f a tree sends up its
trunk, and the trunk its branches, the branches their sm aller
branchlets, the sm aller branchlets still sm aller branchings, th ey
the tw igs, w hich bear the leaves. Therefore, according to the
a bove series, it is the P rim ary S u b-R ace w hich really is the
“ R o o t "-R a ce .
N ow there are seven (please m ark again, seven) R oot-R a ces in
one G lobe-R ou n d , that is to say a Planetary R ou n d as it passes
through our G lobe. Seven G lobe-R ou n d s equal one P lanetary
R ou n d ; seven P lanetary R ou nd s equal one K alpa or M anvantara
or D a y o f B rahm a, and seven K alpas plus seven Planetary
Pralayas (or seven periods o f planetary rest) equal one Solar K alpa.
7 R o o t-R a ce s = 1 G lobe-R ou n d .
7 G lobe-R ou nd s = 1 P lanetary R ou nd .
7 P lanetary R ou nds = 1 K a lp a = 4 ,3 2 0 ,0 0 0 o f ou r years
(plus several m ore ciphers).
7 K alpas + 7 P lanetary P ralayas= 1 Solar K alpa.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 253
Now these figures are given because they are fundamental.
They are accurate as far as they go. We shall have to deal with
them in future studies.
Please note in conclusion that the draw ing on page 251 above,
illustrating the birth o f R oot-R a ces from each other at the m iddle
p oin t o f each, equally well can represent a P rim ary S u b-R ace or
a S econdary S u b-R ace, or a N ational R ace, or a T ribal R ace, etc.,
and the reason is obviou s, because there are no p erfectly unique
and singular things in N ature anywhere. N ature does nothing
b u t repeat itself, and the m an w ho said that N ature never repeats
itself uttered a titan ic fallacy. N ature does n othing b u t repeat
itself. D id y ou ever see a thing p erfectly unique— u tterly
different in all respects from everything else ? On the con trary,
you see everyth ing everyw here repeating itself : the seasons year
in and year o u t : d ay and night year in and year o u t : the
planets circling around the sun continually ; their satellites
circling around their prim aries in m ore or less the sam e w ay ; and
so forth. There is constant repetition everyw here. A tree in
pu ttin g forth its foliage, puts forth its ow n leaves ; it does n ot
pu t forth som ething unique and unheard of— pum pkin-pies or
chairs or tem ples or houses ; it puts forth that w hich belongs to
it, as all trees do.
Cycles can be found in every branch of life ; for instance,
children are born on the average at the end of ten lunar months
or nine solar months. A child can live and be perfectly healthy
and successful, if born at seven months after conception, but it
is a child of great sensitiveness, high-strung, of nervous tempera­
ment, and it needs the most anxious and loving care, because it
has to finish its growth in the cold outside, and Nature takes two
other months to do it normally.
Now, as said before, we shall endeavor at our next study to
link together into one consistent and more easily understood whole,
the various threads of thought which we have gathered up out of
our teachings, both in generalization and in particular, and to
weave them into a whole so consistent, so coherent, that even our
brain-minds can grasp at least some message, some notion, of what
the sublime theme that we have been studying within the last few
weeks treats of.
CH APTER X X I I
THE HIERARCHY OF COMPASSION. THE INCARNATION OF THE
MÂNASAPUTRAS.
Know that the stream of superhuman knowledge and the Deva-Wisdom thou
hast won must from thyself, the channel of Alaya, be poured forth into another
bed.
Know, O Naljor, thou of the Secret Path, its pure fresh waters must be used
to sweeter make the Ocean's bitter waves— that mighty sea of sorrow formed of
the tears of men.
Now^bend thy head and listen well, O Bodhisattva— Compassion speaks and
saith : " Can there be bliss when all that lives must suffer ? Shalt thou be saved
and hear the whole world cry ? "
The Voice of the Silence (" The Seven Portals ”).
Chosen Fragments from the Book of the Golden Precepts. For the daily use
of Lanoos (disciples). Translated and annotated by H. P. B l a v a t s k y pp.
70-71, 76.
T
N opening our study this evening let us read from T h e S ec r et
D o c tr in e , Volume II, pages 281-2 :
As the coats of skin of men thickened, and they fell more and
i maxf-o physical sin, the intercourse between physical and
e th c T e ^ d iv h te man ° f matter betWeen thetw0
tia l teachers in th e d ays of th eir p u rity, becam e a great focus of ligh t,
th e rays from w hich becam e necessarily w eakened as th e y were diffused
an d shed upon an uncongenial, because too m aterial soil. W ith the
m asses th e y degenerated in to Sorcery, ta k in g later on th e shape of
exoteric religions, of id o latry fu ll of superstitions, and Irian-, or hero-
w orship. A lone a h an d fu l of p rim itive m en— in w hom the spark of
d ivin e W isd om bu rn t b righ t, an d on ly strengthened in its in ten sity
as it g o t dim m er an d dim m er w ith e ve ry age in those w ho turn ed it to
b a d purposes— rem ained the elect custodians of the M ysteries revealed
to m an k in d b y th e d ivin e Teachers . . . an d trad itio n w hispers,
w h at th e secret teach in gs affirm, n am ely, th a t these E le c t were th e
germ of a H ierarch y w hich never died since that p eriod :—
“ T h e in n er m an o f the fir st . . . only changes h is body fro m tim e to
tim e ; he is ever the sam e, know ing neither rest nor N irvâ n a , sp u rn in g
D evachan and rem aining constantly on E arth fo r the salvation o f m an kin d .
, , “ O ut o f the seven virgin-m en (K um âra) fo u r sacrificed themselves
fo r the sin s o f the world and the instruction o f the ignorant, to rem ain
till the end o f the present M anvantara. T hough unseen, they are ever
present. W h en p eople say o f one o f them, * H e is dead * ; behold, he
254
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 255
is alive an d u nder another fo r m . T hese are the H ea d , the H ea rt, the
S o u l, and the Seed o f u n d y in g knowledge. . . .”
. . . Higher than the “ Four " is only O n e on Earth as in Heavens—
that still more mysterious and solitary Being described in Book I.
— the W on drou s B eing of w hom we have spoken before.
W ou ld that I had our T eacher's p rofou nd and capacious m ind
and her cap acity for exposition, because tonight we are going to
d o our best to illustrate in as sim ple term s as possible the sublim e
subjects that we have been studying for som e weeks past, gather­
ing up the stray threads of thought and tryin g to w eave them
into a consistent and logical whole.
Plunging then directly into our study, let us first ask ourselves
one question. W hither are we as a R ace, as m en, as thinking
entities, traveling, in w hat direction ? The A ncient W isd om tells
us that we are traveling in w a rd s, n ot " u p " , n ot " dow n " , not to
“ right " nor to “ left " , n ot " forw ard " nor " backw ard " , bu t
in w a rd s, leaving the realm s of m atter, taking them w ith us in fact
b y spiritualizing the inferior coatings : traveling inwards on that
Path w hich began w ith our " descent " (if you like the term ) into
m atter, into m anifestation, and henceforw ard raising m atter
tow ards spirit, its real source or root, follow ing the path w h ic h we
o u rselv es in w a r d ly a re, and m arching inwards, ever m ore inw ardly,
until at the consum m ation of all things we shall attain a goal, an
end, even m ore supernal than that w hich we left in com m encing
our peregrination dow nw ards into experience.
The next thought that occurs is, A re our H igher natures separate
from ourselves, paradoxical as it m ay sound ? A re th ey our­
selves ? W h at are they ? W e all know , as students, the teachings
concerning the seven principles of m an ; bu t w hen we stop to ask
ourselves w hat are these seven principles really : d o th ey form a
unity, or is each one of them an en tity in itself, then we enter upon
very difficult subjects indeed. L et us say first that the four low er
principles are borrow ed or rather, perhaps, evo lv ed ou t o f ou rselv es
in com bin ation w ith elem ents draw n from the com m on store­
house o f N ature, as m an takes into his b o d y for his nutrition his
food form ed o f atom s, yet each one o f those atom s in itself is the
vehicle o f a m onad, m anifesting in that sphere or plane o f life.
B u t our three higher principles are each one a separate en tity bu t
con join ed into an inseparable u n ity during the M anvantaric cycle.
A n d we see the reason w h y this is so in studying the seventh of
the seven Treasuries o f W isdom , w hich seventh is the suprem e K ey
o f all the other six.
W e begin to form som e con ception of w hat lies before us in this
s t u d y : h ow u n ity becom es m u ltiplicity and how m ultiplicity
resolves itself back into unity. N ote first the difference betw een
256 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
on e, u n ity , and u n io n . U n io n is an assem blage o f things straitly
united to g e th e r; U n it y is an assem blage o f things b u t w ith a
com m on head ox source, the sum m it o f a hierarchy for instance ;
whereas o n e is a m onad, an individual, and therefore indivisible.
N ow we are a u n io n in our four low er principles ; w e are a u n ity
in ou r three higher principles, our “ upper triad ” ; and w e are on e
in the three highest, the “ highest tr ia d ” , so called for easy
com prehension.
N ow the three principles form ing the " upper triad ” exist each
on its ow n plane, and we feel their influence, because w e are in
spiritual rapport w ith them . N evertheless each one exists on its
ow n plane in consciousness and p o w e r ; we know o f each on ly
w hat w e have so far evolved ; all we know , for instance, o f the
third principle (counting from the top ), the Manas, is w hat w e have
so far assim ilated o f it in this F ou rth R ou nd. It, as y ou know ,
will not be fully d eveloped until the end o f the n ext R ound. W h at
w e call our “ Manas ” is a generalizing term for the reincarnating
ego— I am now speaking of the higher Manas.
N ow turning a m om ent to a collateral subject, w e m ust realize
that all our consciousness, i.e., the consciousness o f the ordinary
m an, pertains to this our present plane, but that there are in­
num erable oth er planes o f the K osm os surrounding us, inter­
penetrating us, and o f these other planes each has its ow n entities,
its ow n beings, thinking and unthinking, as our plane has, each
class appropriate to its ow n sphere or plane, and that our very
earth interpenetrates them as th ey interpenetrate us, and that the
reason w e d o n ot see their habitations and them , and their
dwellings, and the low er creatures living there, is because our
senses are n ot y et fitted to cognise them , have n ot been evolved or
trained to know them or see them , for our physical senses have bu t
a very lim ited perception o f things. B u t there indeed th ey are !
Som e o f these planes belong to our ow n H ierarchy, and som e d o
n ot. T h ose w hich d o n ot, belon g to other H ierarchies each h avin g
its ow n series o f planes or w orlds. A s in a ch ord o f m usic each
note m ay b e distinctly heard, each being separate from the other,
b u t together th ey form a chord, a m usical harm ony, so it is w ith
these planes. It is, if you like, all a m atter o f differing vibrations,
this w ord being used here in its scientific sense. If the vibrations
are such that our senses can cognise them , we see them then, or
hear them , or tou ch them , or taste them , or smell them , as sense-
perceptions ; and if our senses are incognisant o f them , w e know
n othing o f them . Y e t th ey are there !
Sim ilarly w ith our three higher principles, the " upper triad ” .
T he ego exists w ith its ow n consciousness, and its ow n forces, and
its ow n dw elling w hich is a " soul ” , and w e feel its effects, w e feel
its flux, w hich to us is an in flu x ; and sim ilarly w ith the B uddhic
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 257
principle, and w ith the A tm ic ray. W e say that the A tm an is
universal, and so it i s ; hut it belongs (sofar as we are concerned
in ourpresent stage in evolution) to the fourth K osm ic plane, th ou gh
it is our seventh principle.
W h at I am tryin g to say is that the destiny o f m an is to raise
his focu s o f consciousness from the low er to the higher ; and w ith
each step that he m akes “ u p w a rd s” , or m ore properly inwards,
hefinds a new world, w ith its ow n inhabitants, as said above, w ith
its ow n conditions and “ laws ” , w ith the " habitations ” o f its
inhabitants ; and follow ing the ancient axiom o f the H erm etists,
" A s above, so below ” , w e can see the perfect truth, the p erfect
fidelity to fact, in stating that these various planes or rather
W orlds— som e o f w hich are im m ensely higher than ours, som e
on ly a little higher, som e im m ensely low er than ours, som e on ly a
little low er— each one o f these planes or W orlds, I repeat, has its
ow n life and thinking beings, its ow n trees, and its ow n stones,
and its ow n storm s, and its ow n fire, its ow n inhabitants, and its
ow n animals, and all the rest o f the m anifold and various things
and entities, sim ilar to bu t n ot identical w ith the beings we see
around us on our plane. T hink o f the vastness o f the spaces of
consciousness and being w hich this thought brings h om e to us,
the illim itability o f life, its utter and perfect endlessness, prom ising
endless evolution before us, as there have been endless experiences
and evolu tion behind us ! The reflexion is an ennobling one.
N ow , the sum m it o f every H ierarchy, as so often said, is one:
and m ay be considered as one in three or three in one, a ph ilo­
sophical con ception o f the ancients w hence the Christians got their
dogm a o f their T rinity. This is the Uppermost THad. N ext com es
a unity o f w hat w e call our Upper THad, three separate principles
per se, y et b ou n d together in a com pact u n ity in the seventh or
highest principle, the A tm an, w hich is the Self, the “ universal
selfhood ” , n ot our ego, but that feeling or consciousness o f self­
h ood w hich is the sam e in y ou and in m e and in every hum an
being, and even in all the inferior beings o f the H ierarchy, yea,
even in those o f the beast-kingdom under us, and dim ly perceptible
even in the plant-w orld, and w hich is latent even in the minerals.
This is the pure cognition, the abstract idea o f Self. It differs n ot
at all throughout the H ierarchy, excep t in degree o f self-recogni­
tion. W h en y ow say self, you m ean the sam e thing that I d o ; but
when y ou say myself, I am i and not another, that is the conscious­
ness o f you r ego, and it is n ot the same as w hen I say I am I. W hen
this ego is raised from the low er planes to the higher, it com es
naturally in tou ch w ith higher things. F rom the inferior con ­
sciousness we becom e b y evolu tion conscious o f ourself as a man,
or «¿//-con sciou s; and from the m an w e becom e a B uddha or a
Christ, reaching full expan ded «¿//-consciousness. A n d there are
258 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPHY
thereafter other planes still higher than this, of which we now say
no m ore. Finally, the four low est principles form a u n io n , non ­
perm anent, transitory, and dissoluble at death.
R em em ber that these planes or W orlds extend as such in both
directions : inwards and outw ards— one reaching ever into greater
superiority to us, from our sta n d p o in t; and the other direction
going, as we expressed it, dow nw ards, or, as it is som etim es
expressed, along the Path of the L eft H and.
N ow let us read here another extract, as our next subject, from
T h e S ecr et D o c tr in e , V olum e I, page 572 :
Esoterically the teaching differs: The divine, purely Adi-Buddhic
m onad manifests as the universal Buddhi (the M ah a-b ud dh i or Mahat
in Hindi! philosophies) the spiritual, omniscient and omnipotent root
of divine intelligence, the highest anim a m u n d i [or soul of the world]
or the Logos. T h is descends “ like a flame spreading from the eternal
Fire, immoveable, without increase or decrease, ever the same to the
end” of the cycle of existence, and becomes universal life on the
Mundane Plane. From this Plane of conscious Life shoot out, like
seven fiery tongues, the Sons of Light (the logoi of Life) ; then the
Dhy&ni-Buddhas of contemplation : the concrete forms of their
formless Fathers— the Seven Sons of Light, still them selves, to whom
may be applied the Br&hmanical mystic phrase : “ Thou art ‘ T h a t '
— B ra h m ." It is from these Dhy&ni-Buddhas that emanate their
chhdyds (Shadows) the Bodhisattvas of the celestial realms, the proto­
types of the su p er-terrestrial Bodhisattvas, and of the terrestrial
Buddhas, and finally of men. The " Seven Sons of Light ” are also
called " Stars.”
Oh, sublim e b eyon d ordinary hum an com prehension are the
truths o f life and the m ysteries o f being ! W e are taught that there
exists a H ierarchy of Com passion, w hich H. P. B lavatsky som e­
tim es called the H ierarchy of M ercy or o f P ity. This is the L ight-
Side of nature as contrasted w ith its M atter-Side or Shadow -Side,
its N ight-Side. It is from this H ierarchy of Com passion that cam e
those sem i-divine entities about the m iddle period o f the third
R oot-R a ce of this R ou nd, and incarnated in the sem i-conscious,
quasi-senseless m en of that period, those advanced entities other­
wise know n as the Solar Lhas, as the Tibetans call them , the solar
spirits, w ho were the m en of a form er kalpa w ho during the third
R oot-R a ce thus sacrificed them selves in order to give us intel­
lectual lig h t ; incarnating in those senseless psycho-physical shells
in order to awaken into a divine flame of egoity and ¿¿//-conscious-
ness the sleeping egos w hich we then were. T h ey are ourselves
because belonging to the sam e spirit-ray that we do ; yet we, m ore
strictly speaking, were those half-unconscious, half-aw akened egos
w hom th ey touched w ith the divine fire of their ow n being. This
our " aw akening ” was called b y FI. P. B lavatsky, the in c a r n a tio n
o f the M d n a s a p u tr a s , or the Sons of M ind, or Light. H ad that
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 259
incarnation not taken place, we indeed should have continued our
evolution by merely “ natural ” causes, but it would have been
slow almost beyond comprehension, almost interminable; but
that act of self-sacrifice, through their immense pity, their immense
love, though, indeed, acting under Karmic impulse, awakened the
divine fire in our own selves, gave us light and comprehension and
understanding ; so from that time we ourselves became the “ Sons
of the Gods ” ; the faculty of self-consciousness in us was awak­
ened, our eyes were opened, responsibility became ours ; and our
feet were set then definitely upon the path, that inner path, quiet,
leading inwards back to our spiritual home.
In speaking of initiations at our last meeting, you remember it
was pointed out by our Teachers that initiation is in fact a quick­
ening process, but it is also something else ; it is a copy, an
endeavor to copy, what was done by the incarnation of those
Lords of Understanding, Sons of Light. It is an attempt to
stimulate, to awaken into activity, the inner spiritual Self, to
enliven us more quickly, to enable us to see and understand, saving
those who successfully pass through the tests aeons and aeons of
suffering and strife, and, noblest of all, enabling those whose minds
have become enlightened, themselves to do the same for their
brothers who are less progressed than they.
Why is it that our Teachers from the very beginning, all our
Teachers who have appeared among men, as also our three latest,
H. P. Blavatsky, W. Q. Judge, and Katherine Tingley : why is it,
I say, that they continually teach us the duty as well as the need
of self-control, and of pity and of compassion and of spiritual
understanding ? Why ? Because these things verily are the keys,
these are the “ Open Sesames ” , these are the things which unlock
the portals, not merely to let in the Light, but when the light is
seen, to give it again to others, for who is the man who would not
follow it ?
Let us write down the following names, cited in the above
extract from The Secret Doctrine, and reduce them to hierarchical
form so that they will more easily remain in the memory.
1. Adi-Buddhi.
2. The second is Mahá-Buddhi, which is in fact Mahat. It is
likewise the First Logos, adopting the Greek method of nomen­
clature.
3. The third is Universal Light which is also Life, also called in
the Sanskrit, Divine Matter, Divine Nature, Daivi-Prakriti. The
Second Logos.
4. The Sons of Light, called the Logoi of Life, the Third Logos.
5. The Dhyáni-Buddhas, the Buddhas of Contemplation or
Meditation.
2Ó0 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
6. The Celestial Bodhisattvas, a Sanskrit word meaning “ he
whose nature is essentially Celestial Wisdom or Bodhi
7. The super-terrestrial or superhuman Bodhisattvas.
8. The Mánushya-Buddhas, or the human Buddhas.
9. Men.
This is the Hierarchy of Compassion, emanating or evolving
from the supernal regions, and they are the flowers of the evolu­
tionary course ; and these regions themselves form the first (or
the tenth) or the root, if you like, of the Hierarchy of Compassion,
counting upwards or downwards.
Now the essential aim of this Hierarchy : the whole purpose
and strife, if you like the word, of evolution, is to raise the cor­
ruptible into Incorruptibility, to raise imperfection to Perfection,
to raise the mortal so that it shall put on Immortality, or, in other
words, to raise the personal man to be the individual man, to make
of the human a divine being. The average man has of course not
yet reached that sublime stage, and hence, as was pointed out
before, there is no abiding principle whatsoever in p e r s o n a l man,
because he is composed only of the five lower principles ; and when
we say " personal ” man we mean the man of this period, of this
epoch, the evolving entity of the present time, the p e r so n . But,
“ overshadowing ” this person, incarnating in this person (if we
can use the term incarnating) there is the Divine Flame, there is
the Divine Seed, there is the constant impulse from the God
within, telling us always " C o m e u p h ig h e r , com e to m e. B e the
P a t h a n d w a lk it. I a m the W a y , the T r u th , a n d th e L i f e ”— in the
“ heart ” of each one of us. It is there; and as soon as the
personal man c o n s c io u s ly allies himself with this Divine Spark, he
becomes thereby impersonal and immortal in his inner conscious­
ness and therefore incorruptible, at least until the end of this
Mahá-Kalpa ; and then his sublime destiny is to enter into that
ineffable Nirvana where he will remain in indescribable bliss and
universal understanding until the next Kalpa begins, whence he
starts out anew but on a far more elevated plane. He starts out
as a Leader of that new humanity. He then finds it his turn to
become one of that band or company or body of Sons of Mind or
Light, himself in his turn to endow with self-consciousness and
future spiritual immortality the semi-conscious beings of that
cycle to come.
B o d h isa ttv a : this is a key-word. You will remember that it
was pointed out at a former study that the Dhyáni-Buddhas, who
are fifth in the enumeration of this Hierarchy of Compassion, of
these Lords of Contemplation, are seven in number, and each one
of them has governance or rather has the overseeing of one of our
Rounds. Remember that there are seven Rounds in a Kalpa. He
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 261
is its head, the constant stimulator behind, that force in Nature
which we feel always within us. That “ force ” is the divine urge,
as philosophers might call it. It is not, however, yet truly divine ;
because noble, great, as these spiritual beings truly are, they have
not yet reached the summit of their own Hierarchy; but their
great Work is what we may call the divine urge, the push, behind
the evolutionary process. Further, each of these Dhyani-Buddhas
in himself is a Hierarchy, just as we pointed out that every atom
is a hierarchy, every man is a hierarchy, and, indeed, every entity
is a hierarchy of greater or of inferior degree, because everything
that is composite is necessarily divisible into degrees of spiritual
and intellectual excellence.
How else could the evolving beings learn ? If man existed in
nothing but the pristine purity of his divine essence, what would
there be for him to learn, how could he learn ? Each one of these
Dhyanis has, or gives birth to, so to say, or emanates or evolves
from himself, seven “ sons ” , called Celestial Bodhisattvas, and
each Celestial Bodhisattva has charge of one of the globes of our
Planetary Chain, so that not only each Planetary Round, but each
globe also has its spiritual Head. It is a hierarchy in that sense
again, as well.
Furthermore, let us take our earth, the fourth globe, as a further
example. The Celestial Bodhisattva of our globe in his turn gives
birth to seven superhuman Bodhisattvas, and these superhuman
Bodhisattvas or super-terrestrial Bodhisattvas has, each one,
charge of one Race of the seven Root-Races in each Round, and
gives birth by a wonderful process which we shall shortly describe,
to seven human Buddhas— each one, each superhuman Bodhi­
sattva, to a Race-Buddha. A Bodhisattva, as explained exoteri-
cally, means one who in another incarnation or in a few more
incarnations will become a Buddha. That is true, but it is an
exoteric teaching, that is to say, it is incomplete, and therefore
misleading. A Bodhisattva from the standpoint of our Occult
teachings, our esoteric teachings, is more than that. When a man,
a human being, has reached the point where his ego becomes
conscious, fully so, of its inner divinity: becomes clothed with
the Buddhic Ray ; where, so to say, the personal man has put on
the garments of inner immortality in actuality, on this earth, here
and now, that man is a Bodhisattva. His higher principles have
nearly reached Nirvana. When they do so finally, such a man is
a Buddha, a human Buddha, a Manushya-Buddha. Obviously, if
such a Bodhisattva were to reincarnate, in the next incarnation or
in a very few future incarnations thereafter, he would be a Manu­
shya-Buddha. A Buddha, in the esoteric teaching, is one whose
higher principles can learn nothing more; they have reached
Nirvana and remain there; but the spiritually awakened personal
262 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
man, the Bodhisattva, the person made semidivine, to use popular
language, instead of choosing his reward in the Nirvana of a less
degree, remains on earth out of pity and compassion for inferior
beings, and becomes what is called a Nirmanak&ya. A Nirmana-
kaya is a Bodhisattva, a personal man made semidivine. He
clothes himself in a nirmanakayic vesture. The Nirmanakaya, you
will remember, is one who is a complete, thinking, spiritual entity,
minus the physical body only.
Let us take an example of how this works. Remember, please,
apropos of our subject, that we are studying the nature of the
“ Wondrous Being ” only incidentally at present, as being an
illustration truly sublime of the seventh Treasury of Wisdom, the
Atma-Vidya, the K n o w le d g e o f S e l f . Now let us take our illustra­
tion. Some time after Gautama-Buddha died, there was born in
the south of India a man who made a great mark in the Indian
world thereafter. His name was Sankaracharya. Acharya is a
Sanskrit word meaning Teacher or Master ; and the name of the
man himself was Sankara ; the two words joined together make
Sankaracharya, “ Sankara the Teacher ” , as the Hindu Vedantists
of the Adwaita or non-dualistic school put it. He was born in
Southern India as already stated. Now here again is a very inter­
esting thing, briefly alluded to before. Sankaracharya was an
Avatara, which means an incarnation of a “ God ” , and yet he
stood less high than the Buddha (Gautama) who had preceded
him, although the latter was a man. How shall we explain that
wonder ? Easily. The Buddha Gautama became a Buddha
th ro u g h h is ow n e ffo r ts, throughout innumerable ages ; whereas
Sankaracharya was in one mystical sense what may truly be called
an illusion from the standpoint of esoteric manhood. Sankara was
a man, there was a physical body, there was the great spiritual
essence within ; h u t there h a d been n o p r e v io u s S a n k a r a c h a r y a .
Sankaracharya p e r se, spiritually, was a divine ray. The Atman
and the Buddhi, born in the body of this Brahmana, were there,
also the kama, the prana, the astral model-body, and the physical
body— but no illuminated personal ego ; and in order that that
Avatara at that time in history might do its work, the Bodhisattva
of the Buddha entered into that body and gave it light, provided
the illuminating ego, thus repeating the aeon-old mystery of self-
sacrifice, taking on the “ sins ” (or Karmic heritage from parents)
such as they may have been, if any, of that body, thus giving the
chance for that divine ray, that Avatara, to work in the world :
providing the vehicle through which it, the divine ray, might
manifest to and in the world of man. That is the secret of an
Avatara ; but not every Bodhisattva is necessarily the vehicle of
an Avatara, for the Avataras come at particular and specified
periods. Buddhas also come at particular and specified periods,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 263
but leave behind them a Bodhisattva, their ego, their illuminated
thinking part, the Nirmanakaya, devoted to the work of saving
the race, for of such is the conscious part of the Hierarchy of
Compassion on our globe.
This was one of the ancient mystery-teachings in the old
Mystery-Schools.
But that is not all there is to this true and wondrous mystery.
This same Bodhisattva, we are taught, also provided some
centuries later the conscious vehicle, the egoic power, in the person
called Jesus, in Palestine. These are subjects, however, which we
cannot go into more deeply tonight. They are only an illustration
how this Hierarchy of Compassion works on earth in its sublime
overseeing and protective work of and for the human race.
We turn now to some questions which have been handed in to
us, and which we shall call “ hypothetical questions ” , four of them
in number, which, before we close this evening, we shall read and
do our best to answer, with the Teacher's permission. I mention
this now before continuing our subject, because the very theme
upon which we have touched in connexion with the Buddha
Gautama and Jesus, is mentioned in these questions, questions
which all of us probably have asked ourselves, and have hunted
for answers to them.
We have now gained some idea of what we mean by self-
knowledge, of our unity with all, of how our individuality was
born, as it were, of heaven and of earth : the inner divine ray and
the lower personal man, the latter raised upwards until he becomes
one with that divine ray, thus becoming a fit and purified vehicle
for it. We have also seen that the study of the “ Wondrous Being ”
is a most sublime illustration of the exalted spiritual state to which
we should attain, and shall attain, run we successfully the race.
Now let us go a little farther in our thought in connexion with
this " Wondrous Being We have seen that He, or It, is both—
as H. P. Blavatsky said, using popular language— of heaven and
of earth. His roots are the Dhyani-Buddha of this Round, and the
ray reaches him as a man through the celestial Bodhisattva
emanated by the Dhyani-Buddha, and also through the super­
terrestrial or superhuman Bodhisattva in ultimate charge of our
Root-Race. The “ Wondrous Being ” is here considered in his (or
its) racial aspect. Note well, however, that there is also a
“ Wondrous Being ” for our globe; also one for the entire
Planetary Chain, etc.
There is a tradition, and our Teachers tell us that it is a tradition
founded on truth, that even unto this day, there exists in Central
Asia a certain mystical and mysterious land, or district if you like.
It is called Sambhala. This is a word known in Sanskrit literature,
but because the sayings and legends regarding it are connected
264 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
with what our self-sufficient European Sanskritists and Orienta­
lists call " pagan superstition ” and the “ love of the Orientals for
imagery ” and so forth, our European scholars say that it is a
" myth Blind men ! It is an actual district on earth, in a
certain part of Tibetan territory, and has been for ages the subject
of much mystical speculation, and remains so to this day. It is
the “ home ” of our exalted Teachers. It is likewise the " home ”
of the “ Wondrous Being ” considered as man, or in his racial
aspect. This “ Wondrous Being ” incarnates himself from age to
age at will and at pleasure, but never leaves the duty he has taken
upon himself, nor will he ever drop it until his Work is done. He
is the spiritual bond and link of the various Bodhisattvas and
Buddhas of the Hierarchy of Compassion that we have mentioned,
with superior worlds and with us and the lower beings of our
Round. This land of Sambhala is described as a place of great
beauty, surrounded by a high range of mountains. It is said that
no human eye will ever see it unless permitted to see it. It is said
that to this land of Sambhala go those who are “ called ” there,
sometimes to return and sometimes to remain ; and that there,
supreme over all the Masters, reigns the human aspect of this
“ Wondrous Being ” , the great Initiator, the great Sacrifice.
These are the teachings ; and it is further said that from this
land, spiritually, continually, and also in actual physical shape at
cyclical critical periods, go forth Masters into the world. Can any
thoughtful and spiritual mind read H. P. Blavatsky’s story and
history, what she says and what she did, without reading between
the lines and behind the words ? Have we ever taken it into our
hearts how much it meant for her, and to her, when she spoke of
her “ going home ” ? Have we ever considered what might have
been incarnate in that woman-body ? The Saviors take up bodies,
sometimes, in this manner, as they please from age to age, and
sex itself matters little, though usually man-bodies are selected.
Such physical body-instruments as are most appropriate for the
work to be accomplished are the ones chosen.
We are further told, that these four Kumaras of whom we
have read this evening— “ higher than the Four is only One ”—
are spiritually and originally the four Celestial Bodhisattvas of
the four Globes of our Round, and by correspondence of the four
completed Root-Races of our earth, higher than who there is
none on earth except this One. Oh ! let us take these wonderful
teachings into our hearts and make them a part of us. There is
infinite beauty in them, hope unspeakable ; there is spiritual life,
there is intellectual health. What is the matter with men’s
minds ? Does not every one of us know that the average human
being won’t take truth when he sees it, unless it accord with his
preconceptions ? And why ? Because his mind is so full of
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 265
and so confused with his own brain-mind ideas, with his own
opinions, which he thinks are so much superior to anything that
comes to him from any other source, especially if from an
impersonal source. We are all in the same mental condition ; we
are all cursed with these molds of mind which blind us. Every
one of us, in different degrees, doubtless, some less than others ;
but we are all cursed with it by our own will, and all we need to do
is to exercise our will as our Teachers tell us to do, and break these
molds of mind, in order to let in the light, and the spiritual life,
and the understanding yea, and holy compassion. What keeps
all these out of our minds and hearts as an active force except
these molds of mind ? “ Give up your life if ye would find i t ! ”
Sometimes men may accuse you and say that you are
" atheists ” because you do not believe in a “ personal God
Let me read just here what a great Greek thinker said on that
subject when he was accused of “ atheism ” . And let me say,
before reading : “ atheist ” meant among the Greeks one who
did not accept the gods of the multitude, the mythologic gods
of the State. It was no such term of opprobrium and hatred as
it has become under the Christian theological dispensation. It
meant rather “ You are a radical! ”— not much if anything more.
But the Christians have turned that perfectly legitimate word—
which meant one who accepted not the gods of the State— into
an expression of hatred, signifying moral degradation. Remem­
ber that the Christians themselves were called “ atheists ” by the
“ Pagans ” , simply because they did not accept the mythologic
gods of the State ; and the Christians, when they became power­
ful, retaliated in kind, and called the “ Pagans ” “ atheists ” ,
because they refused to accept the Jewish-Christian God, Jehovah.
But what said Epicurus, called by later ages than his own an
atheist, and a sensationalist, and possibly by every other evil­
sounding epithet which men in hatred can heap upon one whom
they dislike ? “ The Gods are, yet they are not what the multi­
tude imagine them to be. The man who denies the existence of
the gods worshipped by the multitude is neither an infidel nor an
atheist; but he who thinks the gods are what the multitude hold,
is an atheist and impious.”
Now, our time for this evening is drawing to a close. We take
up, with the Teacher’s suggestion and permission, the four
“ hypothetical questions ” above spoken of. These questions
may have occurred, doubtless have occurred, to each one of us ;
and perhaps we have searched for answers. I will give them as
if they had been asked from the floor here.
" I understood you to say in the Thursday meeting, one week ago,
that Jesus and Apollonius were Nirmdnakdyas: in Isis Unveiled,
Volume II, page 159, H, P. B. says that while Jesus and others were
266 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
united to their spirits permanently, Apollonius and others of his class
were so united only at intervals. I should think a Nirmanak&ya
would be permanently united to his spirit, when working on this
earth.”
This question has been largely answered by what we have
already explained to be the meaning of a Bodhisattva. A
Nirmanakaya is a state assumed by or entered into by a Bo­
dhisattva. When that state is ended the Nirmanakaya ends.
Kdya means “ body ” , “ vehicle Therefore, Sankaracharya
Krishna, Laotse, Jesus, were Avataras in differing degrees.
There was a divine ray which came at the cyclic time of each such
incarnation, and the connecting link, the flame of mind, was
provided in each such case by a member of the Hierarchy of
Compassion. But these Avataras were not all equally great.
Apollonius, while not an Avatara, was a Nirmanakaya— a Bo­
dhisattva ; as said before, the Bodhisattva stands actually, in the
Hierarchy of Compassion, higher than an Avatara, in the same
way as a man who has gained divinity through his own efforts,
and remains behind in the world of men out of compassion for
it, and in order to help it spiritually, really stands higher than the
devas or gods in their crystallized cold purity.
Jesus, and others such as Krishna and Laotse, were united
to their spirits permanently : obviously this means not the
physical bodies of those great men ; but that the particular
Atma-Buddhic ray which was called on earth Jesus, or Krishna,
or Laotse, informed men who naturally were always united to
their spirits, though each manifested through a Bodhisattva-
Nirmanakaya. They could be nothing else. They could not be
an Avatara through a being inferior to a Bodhisattva. Apollonius
and the Bodhisattva-Gautamaand others of his noble type, were
not permanently allied to their spirits, or rather were not merely,
solely, Atma-Buddhic rays, because they were men made perfect
through experience : personal men become semi-divine, and
actually, as said, such a being stands far higher than a spiritual
Ray or Monad per se, because such as the Bodhisattvas are the
Fine Flowers of evolution.
Next question :
“ At one Thursday evening meeting, it was declared that the words
of The Sermon onthe Mount were not the words of Jesus, but gatherings
of Ancient Wisdom compiled by some later writer. I don't understand
just how in Katherine Tingley’s addresses, etc., this Sermon and Jesus
are always placed together as one being the author of the other. I got
the impression at this meeting that Jesus was merely an Initiate Jew,
but not nearly of such grand stature as to command the adoration of
all Christians. However, perhaps I did not hear correctly.”
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 267
Now our hypothetical question is here framed in a most careful
manner. In the first place, then, it is not to be said, and it was
not said, that the Sermon on the Mount was not the logia or words
of Jesus. What was said, inadequately doubtless on account of
the shortness of time, was that the Sermon on the Mount, as we
now have it in the New Testament, was doubtless in all pro­
bability composed in much the same manner as the four canonical
Gospels were composed. Doubtless it is based on the logia and
sayings of the Master, Jesus. Unquestionably a man, Jesus,
lived. Unquestionably he had a School. Unquestionably he had
his disciples. Unquestionably he taught them and his sayings
were treasured by his disciples ; but as time went on, much was
forgotten, and they were revised and edited, and we now have
them in the form in which they appear in the New Testament.
This was rendered easy enough by the fact that a good deal in
those writings was on matters of more or less common philo­
sophical, or even esoteric, knowledge ; more or less current in the
thought of the d a y; and it required but little skill to weave
together these ideas into a more or less logical whole. The very
fact that the well known contradictions and incongruities in the
four Gospels when compared, prove various redactions by different
writers, shows that they were compiled from differing bases of
theory. For the Theosophist, certain expressions used therein
show him that the esotericism of Syria played a large part in their
compilation, as was natural enough. Jesus taught our own
universal truths; his half-instructed followers misunderstood
much. Those expressions and terms were used in the Mystery-
Schools of the eastern Mediterranean world of that period, but
do not belong to our School; and as Jesus certainly belonged to
our School, the presumption is, as said, that his sayings had been
“ touched up ” and with extraneous matter formed into the four
Gospels. Somebody or rather somebodies doubtless thought the
scattered Sayings of the Teacher could be improved upon— made
" more clear and easy ” . Such has occurred even in our own
Society.
Such seems to be the fate of nearly all great teachings. There
is absolutely no preventive of it except the faithful hearts of men
and women who stand to the death for the pure teachings of the
one who gave them light and an awakened inner life. That is
what this our own School is for. Let us never forget i t !
Our questioner was correct in the impression he received that
Jesus was stated to be an Initiate Syrian— a Jew if you like. We
speak now of Jesus the m an; but I do not think that we ever
said that he should command, in any circumstances, the “ adora­
tion ” of the Christians or of anybody else, because such worship
is a thing precisely forbidden to all followers of the Truth—
268 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Impersonal and Ineffable. That idea is a misunderstanding of
our meaning by our questioner.
Here is another hypothetical question :
" Another perplexing thing to me is the many different ways in
which the 7, 9, and 10 principles of man and the Universe are enumer­
ated. [I must say that our questioner has brains J] In Instructions Nos.
I and II, by H. P. Blavatsky, it is said that Atman is not really a
principle of man at all, but that the Auric Envelope makes up the
seventh. But yet in our esoteric meetings, Atman is often spoken of
as belonging to man. The esoteric and exoteric enumeration of these
principles differ, and often Manas is called but one principle, then
again divided into two and the Lower Manas joined with the K&ma
principle, etc.”
These well-taken points, of course, are something that each one
must solve for himself, by studying the literature which we already
have, so ably written by our older students. Of necessity the
seven principles are subject to different methods of enumeration,
because each method of enumeration or presentation in dia­
grammatic or paradigmatic form, merely shows another vista of
the truth, shows another facet or way of looking at the one Jewel.
So a man, if he were in India, who desired to study that wonderful
monument of beauty, the Taj Mahal, would not merely look at it
from the front and then go away, but would go inside of it, and
study it in detail; and go to the back of i t ; and to the right and to
the left, thus seeing all sides of it, meanwhile gathering all infor­
mation possible from authorities. In much the same way the
seven principles, or the ten, are subject to different methods of
presentation. As a matter of fact, Atman is put as the seventh
principle, because it is the permanent root of our being ; but if
we knew the Kama-principle were that root, then it should be
called the seventh, or rather the first or highest, as being the root
of our being ; or the Manas, under similar conditions, should be
called the seventh. The Atman is put as the first or highest
because the seven principles of man are considered in a generaliz­
ing way, and the Atman or Self being the root or the highest
element of being is considered as one of the seven principles,
though in reality it is a universal principle.
Our third hypothetical question shows how deeply our ques­
tioner has thought:
“ The doctrine of cycles, and the exact number of years the human
race will take in one Manvantara or a Day and Night of Brahm& to
reach the 7th Race and 7th Round, taken in conjunction with the
doctrine of free will, always somewhat puzzles me ; why does not man's
free will and failures continually keep upsetting the exact number of
years it takes him to reach to certain future Rounds and Races ? In
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 269
Theosophy, The Path of the Mystic, Katherine Tingley says that
Humanity has passed the worst point, the crucial point, in its evolution,
and that no powers in heaven and hell can stay its progress, but yet
she keeps on talking to Humanity as if it were on the brink of destruc­
tion.”
Certainly our questioner is a thinker, and that is an excellent
thing. In the first place, in the large sweep of things, taking the
seven Rounds as a Kalpa or as a whole, and even more strongly
so as regards the Solar Kalpa, that is, the cycle of the Solar
System, the exact number of years of even a human’s many
incarnations is definite and set, in much the same way as the
number of turns (or days and nights) which our globe, the Earth,
makes in one year, or one revolution around the sun. In other
words, the number of days is set and determined in a year, or the
number of days in a lunar cycle or month. But while that is so
in the general sweep of things, the doctrine of free will which
man has, is a very real truth, and man’s failures or successes do
work to retard or to hasten the number of a human being’s
incarnations, for instance, which briefly covers the question our
questioner has asked.
The total number is set; but just as the bodies of the solar
system, the planets, as is known to astronomers, sometimes due
to their perturbations are occasionally a little behind or a little
ahead in time, nevertheless in the long run they “ arrive on time ” ,
as if they were endowed with consciousness, and had to arrive at
the goal at the time when the hour is set therefor. So man’s free
will can alter the course or time-periods of his incarnations but
not their number. In any Round, in any Root-Race, he can
change them in that respect, but he will have to pay for it by
Karmic retribution, for a reaction sets in ; and there will be an
adverse current running the other way. Shall we say, finally, that
man has no free will because he is bound to a globe which he
cannot voluntarily leave ? Of course not, although he is, nolens
volens, carried around the sun by our globe’s annual course.
There is much more that might be said to clarify this point; but
it is too strictly esoteric to speak of here.
As regards our Teacher’s words, permit me to point out that our
questioner has quoted the Teacher exactly, as far as the sense
goes. It is a fact that we have passed the worst point, the crucial
point, in our evolution. It was the middle of the Fourth Race
of this Fourth Round. Things could not have been worse from
the spiritual viewpoint, in our entire Manvantara. It was the
midmost or lowest point of several cycles. We, as a racial body,
passed through it successfully, but many, many entities fell and
took the “ downward path ” , of which we have so often spoken.
“ But yet she keeps on talking to Humanity as if we were on the
270 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
brink of destruction Do not you know that even in this Fifth
Root-Race, as was pointed out in the last two or three meetings,
we have not yet reached the middle point of the Fourth Primary
Sub-race thereof— its middle and therefore dangerous point ?
And that the great racial catastrophe due for our Fifth Root-Race
has therefore not yet come upon us ? As H. P. Blavatsky pointed
out in 1887 or 1888, the great tidal waves and earthquakes occur­
ring in the last few thousand years seem to be premonitions of
what a few more thousands of years will bring upon us with
augmented force.
The last question is :
" The names given to the Absolute in its different manifestations
are confusing to me (or perhaps just hard to remember). [Our ques­
tioner has justice on his side. They are not only confusing, but hard
to remember. The more reason for us to study them.]
“ In Patanjali’s Yoga Aphorisms man’s higher Self is called Iswara,
in the Bhagavad-GM, Purusha; again it is often called Atman.
In Chapter VIII of the lihagavad-Gita the names A dh y dtm an , A d h i-
bhuta, Adhidaivata, Adhiyajha, Brahman, and so forth, are all used
with very subtil differences of meanings.”
They are; but the meanings are also explained in the first
part of Bhagavad-Gita, Chapter VIII. We may here point out
that even as in the arrangements of the seven principles in the
various books, these names are attempts to show other or different
views of the one thing.
In conclusion, we will translate these five Sanskrit names, which
you will find in Chapter VIII of the Gita. Adhyatman means the
Original Atman or Self, equivalent to Paramatman, or Supreme
Atman, the highest of the Hierarchy. Adhibhuta means that
supreme thing, or the higher egoic principle or original element,
in us coming over from other manvantaras ; it is, so to say, the
incarnating essence of the element. Adhidaivata means more
divine, the highest part of all from the serial standpoint, the
hierarchical standpoint, considering various stages. Adhiyajna
means the greater, the superior, sacrifice. Krishna in the high
spiritual sense was the greater Sacrifice, the Primal Sacrifice, the
first Initiator on the part of the Hierarchy of Compassion, a
sacrifice through pure love and compassion, than which, in men,
there is nothing more sublime, because it makes us as one of the
gods.
And, finally, Brahman, the last word, is, as we all know, a
Sanskrit word of which the essential root means expansion ; it
is that part of the celestial economy which first initiates mani­
festation, the expansion of the one into the many.
C H A P T E R X X I I I
THE SUN AND THE PLANETS. THEIR ROLE IN THE
EVOLUTIONARY DRAMA.
The most mystic of discourses inform us, that the wholeness of him (the
sun) is in the supermundane orders : for there a solar world and a total light
subsist, as the oracles of the Chaldaeans affirm.
Unwearied nature rules over the worlds and works,
That heaven drawing downward might run an eternal course,
And that the other periods of the sun, moon, seasons, night, and day, might
be accomplished.
Proclus : Commentary on the Timceus of Plato 264, 4 and 323 (Cory).
H E S E C R E T D O C T R I N E , V olum e I, pages 279 and
280 :
Whatever may be the destiny of these actual writings in a
remote future, we hope to have proven so far the following facts :
(1) The Secret Doctrine teaches no A th eism , except in the Hindu
sense of the word n astika, or the rejection of idols, including every
anthropomorphic god. In this sense every Occultist is a N d stika .
(2) It admits a Logos or a collective “ Creator ” of the Universe ; a
D em i-urgos— in the sense implied when one speaks of an “ Architect ”
as the “ Creator ” of an edifice, whereas that Architect has never
touched one stone of it, but, while furnishing the plan, left all the
manual labour to the masons ; in our case the plan was furnished by the
Ideation of the Universe, and the constructive labour was left to
the Hosts of intelligent Powers and Forces. But that D em i-urgos is no
p erson al deity,— i.e., an imperfect extra-cosm ic god,— but only the
aggregate of the Dhy&n-Chohans and the other forces.
As to the latter :—
(3) They are dual in their character; being composed of {a) the
irrational brute energy, inherent in matter, and (b) the intelligent soul
or cosmic consciousness which directs and guides that energy, and
which is the D h y a n -C h oh a n ic thought reflecting the Id ea tion o f the
U n iversa l m in d . This results in a perpetual series of physical mani­
festations and m oral effects on Earth, during manvantaric periods,
the whole being subservient to Karma. As that process is not always
p erfect; and since, however many proofs it m ay exhibit of a guiding
intelligence behind the veil, it still shows gaps and flaws, and even
results very often in evident failures— therefore, neither the collective
Host (Demi-urgos), nor any of the working powers individually, are
proper subjects for divine honours or worship. All are entitled to the
grateful reverence of Humanity, however, and man ought to be ever
272 FU NDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
striving to help the divine evolution of Ideas, by becoming to the best
of his ability a co-worker with nature in the cyclic task. The ever
unknowable and incognizable Kdrana alone, the Causeless Cause of all
causes, should have its shrine and altar on the holy and ever untrodden
ground of our heart— invisible, intangible, unmentioned, save through
“ the still small voice ” of our spiritual consciousness. Those who
worship before it, ought to do so in the silence and the sanctified
solitude of their Souls ; making their spirit the sole mediator between
them and the Universal Spirit, their good actions the only priests,
and their sinful intentions the only visible and objective sacrificial
victims to the Presence.
W e proceed to gather up this evening m ore o f the scattered
threads left over from our form er studies. First, let us look a
little m ore closely into w hat is m eant b y a B odh isattva. It w ill
be rem em bered that a B odh isattva was spoken o f as the personal
m an relatively perfected ; the case where the personal en tity had
becom e an im personal en tity, as said before ; where m ortality
had put upon itself the vesture o f Im m ortality ; in other w ords,
a case where the personal m an has becom e an A w akened One or
a B uddha short o f B u dd ah ood com plete b y on ly one s ta g e ; or,
to use the Christian (early Christian-Greek) m ystical expression,
a Christ on earth.
N ow , a B odh isattva, being such, practically m eans w hat we
m ight call the H igher Manas, the H igher Self (not the H ighest
Self, bu t the H igher Self) fully developed and in the full radiance
o f the dual m onad A tm a-B u dd h i, and thus form s a fit vehicle, a
fit m edium , betw een the divine and the low er selves o f m an ; and
thus p rovides an appropriate channel o f com m u nication in cases
where an A vatara is due for m anifestation on earth. There cou ld
be no such thing as an A vatara am ong m en were it n ot for this
m edium supplying the necessary psycho-spiritual link. Pure
spirit, in endeavouring to act u pon earth, can have neither
effect upon, nor chance o f com m u nication w ith, m en, because it
is the actual divine essence, so to say, o f the K osm os and needs
the tw o spiritual qualities or vehicles B uddhi and M anas-taijasa,
in order so to m anifest, and the B odh isattva, in supplying the
spiritual egoic quality, the interm ediate quality, furnishes that
necessary m edium or vehicle. T h e B odh isattva, furtherm ore, if,
instead o f follow in g its ow n natural karm ic higher course in the
N irvanic state, chooses b y virtue o f the com passion inherent in
itself, to rem ain on earth, as a H elper o f m ankind, in that case
becom es a Nirmdnakdya, a fu lly conscious thinking en tity u pon
this our hum an plane, m inus on ly the physical b od y . It is stated
in the E soteric P h ilosophy that G autam a the B u ddh a m ade th at
sublim e choice, and furnished the interm ediate principle for the
H indfi A vatara Sankarach&rya, o f w hom w e spoke at our last
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 273
m eeting. There is a tradition and a record am ong us likewise that
the sam e B odh isattva furnished the interm ediate principle o f the
Avat& ric m anifestation called Jesus, as also in tw o other cases
w hich we here leave unnam ed, the reason being that each race
and each sub-race, as w ell as every sm aller racial cy cle o f im por­
tance, as we know , is under the particular guidance o f a B uddha,
or o f m inor incarnations or overshadow ings b y him .
N ow G autam a the B u ddh a was him self an A vatara plus,
i.e.yin a larger sense ; that is to say, instead o f furnishing an inter­
m ediate vehicle from him self, in a m inor cycle, he was that
interm ediate vehicle him self in his psycho-spiritual totality,
inspired b y his ow n divine nature, and w ith his ow n physical b o d y
as the “ tem ple ” thereof, differing in that respect from an
A vatara per sef in w hich the interm ediate vehicle is furnished
b y the B odhisattva-N irm anakaya o f the B u ddh a under w hose
governance or rather overseeing the particular race in w hich the
A vatara appears, runs its course as a m inor cycle of the Greater
R acial C ycle of that B uddha him self. A n A vatara, therefore,
requires the B odh isattva o f the R acial B uddha as a vehicle in
order to m anifest upon earth at the tim e he is due to appear. A
B u ddh a does n ot, because, although an A vatara in the sense o f
being under the direct and fully actual illum ination o f his ow n
D ivine Self (which is a Superterrestrial B odh isattva, studied at
our last m eeting), he has Karman behind him. It is the direct and
actual reincarnation o f a D ivine Man, w hich an A vatara is not.
A n A vatara is, in a sense, an illusion or m aya, because the inter­
m ediate or egoic quality— the offspring m etaphysically o f K arm an
— is lacking there and has to be furnished b y the B odh isattva-
qu ality or vehicle.
A n A vatara, form ally only, stands higher than a B odh isattva,
b u t it is a higher stage m erely o f form o f and in a hierarchy, and
n ot from the evolu tion ary view point. A B uddha becom es such b y
self-directed evolutionf the great truth that our Teacher K atherine
T in gley so often tells us of. A n A vatara com es b y karm ic
racial necessity at certain epochs in the w orld 's history ; a B uddha
does so likewise, bu t also b y personal choice ou t o f an im m ense
com passion for his inferior fellow -beings still in volved in the toils
o f m aterial existence. There is the difference, and a very im por­
tant one it is to rem em ber for our future studies.
W e m ight say in passing that (as our Teacher, I believe, once
said here) these our studies are doing m ore for us in a spiritual
and intellectual sense in these present m eetings than has been
done for any sim ilar b o d y o f students for thousands o f years in
the im m ediate past. W e can see at least one reason for it. That
reason is as follow s. A t abou t our present period, w hat is called
a " M essianic cycle ” is ending, and, naturally, a new one is
274 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPHY
opening— a M essianic cycle running 2160 years, in definite, exact
figures. These cycles succeed one another continuously. So if
we choose to cou n t backw ards, we can say, if we like, that the
E uropean M essianic cycle w hich is ending, or out o f w hich we
are em erging, is that inaugurated for E urope b y Jesus, the A vatara.
Interesting thoughts com e up in this connexion w hich we m ay
safely leave for consideration at another tim e.
So m uch for those threads.
Please rem em ber that evolution com prises tw o lines o f action,
as it were, tw o forces running collaterally, that is to say the
spirit or the developed side of existence, on the one hand, and
that o f the undeveloped side on the other hand : otherw ise
darkness and light, or the selfish and the com passionate, w hich,
you will rem em ber, is a subject that we alluded to som ew hat in
studying the fifth of the seven Treasuries of W isdom of the
H ierarchy of Com passion w hich is the unselfish or im m ortal side
o f existence, w hich we studied m ore or less fully at our last
m eeting last week.
N ow the action and interaction of these tw o lines o f energy
supply the m otive forces behind evolution, behind progress ;
and the course w hich evolution takes, really arises in, springs out
from , and is inaugurated b y, the im pulses at the opening of the
M anvantaric Cycle given to the dark or m atter-side of existence
b y the D hyani-C hohans, I m ean b y the higher parts or E ntities
o f this H ierarchy of Com passion studied at our last m eeting.
It is the k ey n o tes furnished b y them , th e p r im a l a n d o r ig in a l
im p u ls e s depending o f course upon destiny (or karm an) which
give the originating plan and the driving pow er behind everything
that happens in that M anvantara throughout its cycle of evolution
until its close ; and while free-will exists in m an as soon as he has
learned to obey the spiritual statutes of self-consciousness, this
free will itself, being a divine energy and in a sense springing
itself from the general D hyan-C hohanic im pulse, can in no
circum stances m ilitate against, be con trary to, or adversely
affect, the general evolutionary current w hich bears the m anifold
hosts o f entities of m anifestation always tow ards the ultim ate goal,
signalized b y H . P. B lavatsky in the ancient saying, " The D ay
B e W ith Us ” ,— the end of a M anvantara or the opening o f Pralaya.
Thus, then, these tw o lines of energy are eternally co-active—
using the w ord " eternally ” in the sense of lasting throughout the
Solar K alpa : on one side, the “ dark ” , undeveloped forces of
m a tte r; and on the other side, the H ierarchy o f Com passion
w ith its innum erable units urging the hosts o f evolvin g beings
forw ard in one direction, the w hole effort o f the H ierarchy of
Com passion being to raise other less developed beings or units
from the m atter-side up into the " light-side The entities o f
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 275
the H ierarchy o f Com passion in past M anvantaras were them ­
selves thus so raised b y other H ierarchies o f Com passion, n ow b y
this tim e far, far ahead o f us in evolution ; and it is our sublim e
destiny in the future K alpa ourselves so to guide the entities
behind us now , a process called the “ Passing on of the Light ” ,
as the Greek and Latin poets put it.
Furtherm ore, as briefly alluded to at our last study, please
rem em ber that the ancient initiations, and the M ystery-Schools
in w hich those initiations took place, were established solely for
the purpose o f “ forcing ” or quickening the evolution o f fit and
proper candidates. T h e y w ere e sta b lish ed fr o m th e sa m e m o tiv es
o f C o m p a s s io n th a t p r e s id e d over th e a cts o f the G rea t A c to r s o f the
P r im a l D r a m a , the o p e n in g a cts o f o u r M a n v a n ta r a . T h e y c o p ie d ,
a s it w ere i n m in ia tu r e , w h at took p la c e i n th o se p r im o r d ia l tim e s ,
a n d w h a t to o k p la c e i n a c tu a l life in the H ie r a r c h y o f C o m p a s s io n
on o u r ea rth , or th a t se c tio n , r a th er, o f the H ie r a r c h y o f C o m p a s s io n ,
w h ich w e c a ll th e G rea t W h ite L o d g e.
N ow , let us turn a m om ent from these loose threads of thought
w hich we have here gathered up and w oven m ore neatly into our
them e, to another collateral and very im portant m atter upon
w hich we have touched bu t lightly, because the questions in volved
are so p rofou n d that it was im possible in treating o f one subject,
adequately to m ake the m eaning clear w ithout tem porarily
dropping our m ain them e ; bu t it is likewise necessary n ot to go
too far ahead and leave these loose threads behind : we m ust
gather them in also and w eave them into the fabric, into the
picture, w hich we are endeavoring to m ake.
W e refer m ore particularly to the role w hich the sun and the
planets o f our Solar System p lay in the evolu tion ary dram a.
There are great m ysteries connected w ith this, and we are told
very plainly that n ot m erely the ultim ate W ord but even speci­
fying explanations in no circum stances are given out except
to those w ho have pledged them selves irretrievably and irre­
v oca b ly to the L od ge ; and even then th ey are given ou t on ly w ith
“ m outh to ear ” , and “ at low breath A nd, furtherm ore, on ly
to those, says H . P. B lavatsky, w ho have passed successfully
their fourth initiation, w hich consists very largely in th e p e r s o n a l
a n d in d iv id u a l e x p e r ie n c in g o f the tea ch in g s g iv e n i n the three
p r e c e d in g stages— three stages of prelim inary teaching and training,
leading to actual personal experience thereof in the fourth ini­
tiation, in w hich, we are told, the candidate m ust leave the b o d y
of flesh, yea, even the brain-m ind, behind, and becom e that o f which
he was ta u g h t; because on ly b y b ein g can he k n o w . B ut never­
theless a great deal has been openly said that is, to the student,
very illum inating as regards these subjects.
First, at various tim es we have spoken o f the sun, o f our solar
276 FUNDAM ENTALS OF T H E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
orb, as the central locus o f ou r Solar System . So it is, n ot m erely
physically but also in oth er w ays. T h e sun, paradoxically bu t
truly, supplies m ost o f our m aterial, vital p o w e rs ; and it is
interesting to n ote that the nearer the planets are to the sun, as a
general rule, the m ore dense th ey are. M ark well that M ercury,
the planet o f B odh a and o f W isdom , the particular guardian and
initiator in the M ysteries, is the nearest to the sun (but one) o f
o u r seven planets, i.e ., the seven M ystery-planets. N ote the w ords
“ but one ” . Y o u w ill rem em ber that the ancients spoke o f seven
“ M ystery-P lanets ” , Saturn, Jupiter, Mars— I give them in the
old order— Sun, Venus, M ercury, and M oon. This m atter we
shall develop som ew hat in diagram m atic form later this evening
if we have the tim e.
T he intra-m ercurial planet, as it is called, accordin g to our
teaching becam e p ractically invisible to the physical eye during
the T hird R oot-R a ce, after the fall o f m an into physical generation.
O n M arch 26, 1859, a b o d y was seen crossing the solar disk,
m aking w hat astronom ers call a transit. T hat b o d y has n ot been
seen again ; but there are other reasons w hich have induced som e
astronom ers to believe that there actually is an intra-m ercurial
planet (although th ey can n ot find it again despite the search for
it) such as the perturbations o f M ercury. A n attem pt at ex­
planation o f these perturbations has been recently m ade, based on
the relativity-doctrin es o f Einstein, and that explanation is now
in fashion ; nevertheless our teachers say that there is an intra­
m ercurial p la n e t; w e m ay call it " V ulcan ” , as the astronom ers
so called it.
N ow , even if V ulcan becam e invisible during the T h ird R o o t-
R ace, it cou ld yet becom e visible in transit, that is in crossing the
sun’s disk, as this b o d y was actually in 1859 seen to do, because
although invisible to our unaided sight, yet through the lens o f a
telescope w hen turned upon the unsurpassed illum ination o f the
sun’s disk, its b o d y cou ld p rob ab ly be seen against the great
brilliance o f the solar orb. The im m ensely great illum ination
p rovid ed b y the sun w ould readily th row in to shadow , or m ake
appear as a shadow , any b o d y o f less brilliance, or any b o d y
norm ally too ethereal to be seen otherw ise.
T h e seventh planet, ou r teaching is, is a planet w hich under
proper con dition s is som etim es seen apparently near the M oon.
It is said that it has a retrograde m otion , and that it is slow ly
dying. It has reached the end o f its cycle. I think it erroneous to
say that the m oon " hides " i t . T h at m ay b e a g o o d w ay, perhaps,
o f expressing a certain appearance, b u t I think it is a m isleading
one. L et us keep the facts ju st as th ey were given us, th at it is
som etim es “ seen apparently near the m oon ” , that it has a
retrograde m otion , and that it is slow ly dying.
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 277
N ow V ulcan is in one m ystic sense the highest o f the seven
sacred planets ; perhaps n ot the least dense, but in one sense the
highest p sych ologically ; and we have reason to believe that the
oth er planet som etim es seen apparently near the m oon is perhaps
the low est o f the seven sacred planets. This does not m ean that
our teaching lim its the num ber o f the planets of the solar system
to seven. On the con trary, w e are taught that there are m any m ore
planets in the solar system than are know n to astronom ers, som e
p erfectly invisible, because th ey are on planes b oth higher and
low er than our plane. There are planets in our system higher than
ours, higher than any planet visible to u s ; there are also planets in
our system m uch low er than ours, m uch low er than any planet
visible to us.
These seven especial planets were called “ sacred ” for a reason
m ost difficult openly to explain ; but we m ay say this, that the
seven planets w hich we o n ea rth (please note the qualification)
call sacred, are those planets (and the earth is n ot one of them )
w hich are the U padhis, a Sanskrit w ord m eaning “ bearers ” or
" carriers ” (to us) o f the seven Solar Forces. T h ey are all
“ higher ” in that sense, or from that poin t of view , than is the
earth ; and th ey are all intim ately con n ected w ith this earth, and
p rovid e this earth— not w ith its principles bu t— w ith spiritual and
intellectual and psychical and astral and vital pow ers, so to say.
These seven sacred planets, m oreover, are our “ M a k ers” , and
oversee our destiny.
N ow this is a b it o f the genuine ancient astrology. It is not
m erely to the physical b o d y of the seven planets that we allude ;
doubtless each physical planet or rather globe has its ow n a stro ­
n o m ic a l forces, such as gravitation and m agnetism , and so forth ;
bu t w e are here speaking o f the inner or occu lt action o f them .
E ach o f the globes of our P lanetary Chain, m oreover, each o f the
seven globes thereof, is under the particular w atchfulness or care
o f one o f these seven M ystery-Planets. Furtherm ore, each R ou n d
is under the particular overseeing o f one o f these seven sacred
planets. Furtherm ore, each race on any one o f the globes, is
under the particular care and overseeing o f one o f these seven
sacred planets. F or these reasons, as well as for others still m ore
im portan t and intim ate on accou n t o f their strait connexion
w ith our P lanetary Chain, were th ey called the seven “ sacred
planets
The Sun and M oon are n ot tw o o f the seven, although for
purposes o f esoteric astrology th ey were substituted for the real
tw o, because one is apparently near the m oon, and one is so near
the sun. Y et for all that, the sun and m oon are b oth closely
in interaction respectively w ith those tw o.
N ow , w ith regard to the sun. W h at is the sun ? Is the sun a
278 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
physical b o d y on ly ? It is n ot. It is n ot really a physical b od y ,
for it is n ot gas, it is n ot gaseous. It is n ot solid, nor is it liquid
nor gaseous. T h e s u n is a r e fle x io n . W h at do w e m ean when we
say a “ reflexion ” ? W e do n ot m ean the w ord in the full, com ­
plete, and exclusive sense in w hich it is com m on ly em ployed,
as w hen we speak o f the reflexion of an im age in a m irror. W e
m ean it in this sense, that the tru e sun is a b o d y — strange as it
m ay seem to our present-day scientists— of energy or force.
E ven our m odern science is beginning to understand now that
force and m atter are fundam entally one thing. Som e years ago
everyth ing in the scientific im agination was m atter. N ow every­
thing has becom e fo r c e to it. M arvelous, that these scientific
gentlem en d o n ot see how easily th ey change the bases of their
thought, and h ow d ogm atic th ey so often are as regards each
new series o f bases that th ey assume I B u t there the fact is.
E ven science tod ay tells us that m atter is sim ply force, w hich is
true. B u t it is m atter all the same. There is n o need o f running
to one extrem e in tryin g to pull ourselves out o f another. N o
need o f incurring the perils o f Scylla in trying to evade those of
C harybdis. M atter exists, it is, it is the upadhi or carrier of
force, and force is also the intrinsic life o f m atter. B u t neverthe­
less m atter exists ; it is a m aya, an illusion indeed, bu t it e x ists.
M aya does n ot m ean illusion in the exclusive and full sense of
n on-entity. N ot at all. M aya actually im plies that som ething
exists to produce it, bu t that the seer of it does n ot know w hat the
reality is behind ; in other w ords, o u r sen se s do n o t te ll u s the tru th
a b o u t th e th in g b e h in d the m a n ife s ta tio n . T h at is w hat m aya
m eans, n ot that the thing itself is n on -en tity. T hat view is an
absurdity.
If y ou exam ine photographs o f sun-spots, if you look at the
sun through a g ood telescope and center you r gaze upon a sun­
spot when it is near a lim b of the sun, near an edge, you w ill see
that as the spot crosses the solar disk, it seems to be black. N ow
w h y does it appear black ? W e know that it is n ot black in color.
Our scientists have p roved that fact, but the visible disk of the
sun is so intensely brilliant that the less brilliance of the part
w ithin the spot, though very brilliant itself, seems dark to our
eyes.
Suppose that we were to say, that the sun we see is sim ply like
the glow around som e electrical m achines, m erely a “ reflexion ”
o f the electrical current as it were, a m ayavi m anifestation on our
plane of a force so im m ense that we can form no proper con ception
of it. Suppose that we were to think of the sun as occu pyin g no
space (or dim ension) at all, and that w hat we see, that im m ense
apparent b o d y o f light, were like an electrical spark, apparently
a b od y , apparently occu pyin g space. Suppose that we go a step
FU N D AM EN TALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 279
farther and say that the visible sun w hich we see is m atter in its
sixth state o f ethereality, and that w hat is behind that trem en­
dously brilliant veil or reflexion is an atom , so to say, an infini­
tesim al part o f m atter-substance, m atter in its seventh state. It is
easy to follow this thought. The sun is a mass of force ; as even
the m edieval philosophers said : “ B rother, when a m an tells
you that he has seen the sun, laugh at him . H e has not. The
sun is invisible. T he true sun, the origin and center of these
high forces, is on higher planes, and we m erely see on the sixth
sub-plane of our K osm ic Plane this intense brilliance covering
so vast a space as the apparent sun d o e s /'
Furtherm ore, while the sun gives us our light on earth, it
p rob ab ly does not furnish us w ith 30 per cent o f the heat that we
have, and then n ot b y direct physical radiation, but in som e­
w hat the same w ay in w hich the electric current furnishes us
w ith heat, or in a sim ilar w ay. In the sa m e w ay w ould be, perhaps,
too strong a m anner o f putting the fact. Forces em anate from
the solar heart or center and reach the m eteoric veils encircling
the earth, and arouse electro-m agnetic currents, producing thus a
part o f the m eteorological phenom ena w hich we experience in
storm s and fair w eather and rain and snow and ice. The earth
itself produces p robably 70 per cent or m ore of the heat w hich we
k n o w ; and such things as storm s are caused m ostly b y electro­
m agnetic action and reaction, if I m ay use that expression,
betw een the innate prana or vital forces of the earth, and the
m eteoric continent w hich surrounds our globe like a veil. F or
we are encircled during our M anvantara, and every other planet
o f the solar system is sim ilarly encircled during its M anvantara,
w ith a thick veil o f m eteoric dust, m ost of it very fine, som e of
it o f m ore or less large bodies.
T ake Venus, for instance, or M ercury. T h ey are surrounded
each one w ith its ow n veil of m eteoric or kosm ic d u s t : each one
veils her face, or his face. This m eteoric veil acts in one sense as
does a cushion, thus form ing a protection to its planet. W e do
n ot see for that reason the real face of the planet. B ut Mars has no
such veil. W h y ? Because the vital essence o f that Planetary
Chain has left M ars' physical globe for its other globes.
The Teacher asks m e to reserve until next week the diagram
w hich was to have been shown to you this evening, at w hich
poin t of stu dy we have now arrived. Let us briefly point out that
the diagram in question is taken from the m ystical Syrian thought
in vogue before the Christian era, and represents the exoteric
astrological ideas that the Syrians then had o f the relationship of
the planes o f being, and necessarily therefore of the planets and
the m ystical positions occu pied b y each of them in the evolu ­
tion ary dram a. T h ey put it this wise. First and highest was
280 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
the M ilky W ay', w hich to them was the u tm ost lim it o f this
H ierarchy or U niverse. Second cam e the Nebulae and the
Com ets, and th ey were represented in spiritual hierarchy b y
the Seraphim . T h e third grade still low er were the F ixed Stars,
and th ey were represented b y the Cherubim . T hen taking a leap
over the im m ensities o f the space o f our universe, these old thinkers
o f B abylonia, A ssyria, M edia, and doubtless Persia, and o f course
Phoenicia, and all the oth er countries o f A sia M inor, began the
inferior series w ith the planets o f ou r solar system . First Saturn,
the seat o f the Thrones ; then Jupiter, the seat o f the D om i­
nations ; then Mars, the seat o f the V irtues ; then the Sun, the
seat o f the P o w e rs ; then Venus, the seat o f the Principalities ;
then M ercury, o f the A rchangels ; then the M oon, o f the A ngels ;
then ou r earth. T h ey also enum erated five E lem ents— an
enum eration w hich is exoteric, bu t it is the sam e as the esoteric
as far as it goes. O ur earth, as w ell as interplanetary space,
com prises these five E lem ents, and w hen we say our “ earth ”
we m ean n ot m erely our physical planetary b o d y o f this E lem ent,
u pon w hich we m ove, but the entire sphere com prehended betw een
the M oon and the earth. These five E lem ents were nam ed
E ther, Fire, A ir, W ater, gross m atter or E arth. O utside o f this
H ierarchy or U niverse or K osm os, th ey placed the “ Celestial
W aters ” , even as the first chapter o f the H ebrew b ook o f Genesis
speaks o f the “ Spirit o f the E lohim m ovin g over the W aters ” .
" Celestial W aters ” was a nam e frequen tly given b y the ancients
to w hat the Greeks called Chaos, undeveloped m atter, or, as we
to-d a y w ould say, “ spatial deeps ” .
Our tim e o f stu dy this evening is draw ing to a close. L et us,
how ever, poin t ou t the interesting fact that this sam e series of the
planets show s us clearly that the ancients m ust have understood
p erfectly w ell the m echanism o f the fram ew ork o f the visible
Solar System , and that, if their thought was geocentric, m aking
the earth the center o f the K osm os, it was a natural th o u g h t;
and that as m an is instinctively anthropocentric, he cannot
naturally think from another standpoint. So, naturally, the
ancient astrologers and astronom ers, w ith their feet on earth,
calculated from the earth, and saw from the earth, and placed
m an, lookin g up tow ards the spheres o f the Solar S ystem , on earth
as the center o f observation, even as we d o tod ay, not m eaning
at all that th ey knew n othing o f the heliocentric system , w hich
w e know th ey did know .
L ook then, w hat can this m ean ? This cannot m ean anything
bu t one thing, and that is, that these planets were so placed on
accou n t o f and because o f the relative tim e occu pied b y each in
m aking the circuit o f its orbit, to w i t : Saturn, p ractically 30
y e a r s ; Jupiter, th e n ext “ lo w e st" , practically 12 ; Mars, the
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 281
n ext “ low est ” , p ractically t w o ; the Sun (or the M ystery-
planet, the sun supplying its place) one y e a r ; Venus, the n ex t
one, 7 m o n th s ; M ercury, 3 m o n th s ; the M oon, 1 m onth. W e
w ou ld like to poin t out also that the days o f our ow n com m on
w eek are based upon this series, and then w e shall close for this
evening.
W h y, in puttin g the planets in the order Saturn, Jupiter, Mars,
Sun, V enus, M ercury, M oon, d id th ey n ot m ake their w eek of seven
days follow that order ? W h y ? B ecause, dividing the d ay and
night into 24 hours, each day, beginning at sunrise, opens w ith
its first hour under the governance o f som e particular planet.
I f you calculate through the 24 hours, beginning w ith Saturn,
(there being seven planets, seven sacred planets) during the
24 hours th ey go into 24 three tim es, w ith three over. Three
tim es seven is 21 hours, w ith three over : 22, 23, 24, the 25th hour
being the first hour o f the n e x t d a y . T hree tim es seven running
through the 24 hours, we find that if the first hour began w ith
S a tu r n as presiding planet, the 8th hour w ould also be under
Saturn, the 15th w ou ld be under Saturn, the 22nd w ould be under
Saturn, the 23rd then w ould be under Jupiter, the 24th under
Mars, and the 25th hour, the first o f the n ext day, w ould be S u n
or S u n d a y . So b y taking this list and counting each 4th, begin­
ning w ith the one ju st ended, as the first (or adding 3 m ore to the
hour just ended), gives you the days o f the w eek. Thus : Saturn,
Jupiter, M ars, Sun, S u n d a y . Sun, Venus, M ercury, M oon,
M o n d a y . M oon, Saturn, Jupiter, M ars, T u e s d a y (Mars* D ay) ;
Mars, Sun, Venus, M ercury, W e d n e s d a y , being the A n glo-S axon
W o d e n , corresponding to the Latin and G reek term s. M ercury,
M oon, Saturn, Jupiter, T h u r s d a y (T hor's D ay). Jupiter, Mars,
Sun, Venus, F r i d a y . Venus, M ercury, M oon, Saturn, S a t u r d a y ,
again beginning the second or follow ing week.
So the order and nam es o f the days of our w eek are ultim ately
based upon a very interesting and occu lt reason— ancient astrology
explained and given to the w orld on ly in the M ysteries as w e know
them . T h e order and nam es o f the days of the w eek were the
sam e in India and in N orthern E urope, and in som e parts of
A sia, a m atter w hich has never yet been satisfactorily explained
b y our calendarists and astronom ers. The reason is found in the
fundam entally identical astrological system com m on to the
entire ancient w orld.
PART II
P A R T II
C H A P T E R X X I V
THE TEN STAGES OF BEING ACCORDING TO THE SYRIAN SYSTEM.
ESOTERIC METHOD OF TEACHING : PARADOXES : INTUITION.
Their writings also [i.e., of the Pythagoreans], and all the books which they
published, most of which have been preserved even to our time [i.e., to the time of
Iamblichus], were not composed by them in a popular and vulgar diction, and
in a manner usual with all other writers, so as to be immediately understood,
but in such a way as not to be easily apprehended by those that read them. For
they adopted that taciturnity which was instituted by Pythagoras as a law, in
concealing after an arcane mode, divine mysteries from the uninitiated, and
obscuring their writing and conferences with each other.
Life of Pythagoras, p. 56 (Iamblichus).
Philosophy, according to his (Plato's) acceptation, being not merely a set of
doctrines but the perfecting of the whole spiritual life.
Plato and the Older Academy, p. 160 (Zeller).
It moves. It moves not.
It is far, and It is near.
It is within all this,
And It is outside of all this.
t§d Upanishad, p. 363 (Hume).
1
E T us open our study this evening by reading from T h e
S ec r et D o c tr in e , Volum e I, pages 435-6, as follows :
J Mor Isaac shows the ancient Syrians defining their world of
* the “ Rulers ” and active gods ” in the same way as the Chal­
deans. The lowest world was the Sublunary— our own—watched by the
“ Angels ” of the first or lower order; the one that came next in rank,
was Mercury, ruled by the “ Archangels ” ; then came Venus, whose
gods were the Principalities ; the fourth was that of the Sun, the
domain and region of the highest and mightiest gods of our system, the
solar gods of all nations ; the fifth was Mars, ruled by the “ Virtues ” ;
the sixth— that of B e l or Jupiter—was governed by the Dominions ;
the seventh— the world of Saturn—by the Thrones. These are the
worlds of form. Above came the four higher ones, making seven
again, since the three highest are “ unmentionable and unpronounceable.”
The eighth, composed of 1,122 stars, is the domain of the C h eru b s;
the ninth, belonging to the w alking and numberless stars on account
of their distance, has the seraphs ; as to the tenth— Kircher, quoting
Mor Isaac, says that it is composed “ of invisible stars that could be
taken, they said, for clouds—so massed are they in the zone that we
call V ia S tra m in is, the Milky Way ” ; . . . That which comes after
and beyond the tenth world (our Quaternary, or the A rfip a world),
u *85
286 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
the Syrians could not tell. “ All they knew was that it is there that
begins the vast and incomprehensible ocean of the infinite, the abode
of the true divinity without boundary or end.”
Champollion shows the same belief among the Egyptians.
W e continue our stu dy tonight from the p oin t where we stopped
last week. T he m ain thought this evening that seems to call first
for further illustration is the su bject o f the bi-polar nature of
being, that is to say, that there are tw o interacting energy-
substance lines in the K osm os, w hich together com prise the
tota lity of all evolu tion ary processes : first, the low er, the K osm o-
kratores, or W orld-B uilders ; and second, the higher, the Intelli­
gences im pelling the form er into action and overseeing their
evolutionary w ays. T he second class is of course the higher, and
com prises w hat w e, follow ing H . P. B lavatsky, have called the
H ie r a r c h y o f C o m p a s s io n .
N ow these tw o lines o f action, or classes, m ay also b e called
(a) the L eft-H an d or M atter-Side, and (b) the R igh t-H an d or
Spirit-Side, i.e ., (a) the B uilders, the K osm okratores, w ho are in
fact (in one sense) the low er principles of (b) the D hyáni-B uddhas,
w h o are the R ight-H an d, or Spirit-Side, o f being, w hich latter are
o f the Inner K osm os, as the K osm okratores or Builders, also
called P lanetary Spirits or D hyáni-C hohans o f a low er grade, are
o f the O uter or M aterial K osm os, i.e ., as said above, the left-hand
side, the m atter-side, the night-side, the dark side.
F rom the interaction o f these tw o quasi-opposing Forces (or
Elem ents) in N ature com e into self-consciousness the innum erable
m onads o f Inner and O uter Space, because this night-side or
m atter-side, is m ade u p o f the low er principles of the Light-Side,
as it were ; and these low er principles are com posite, form ed of
sim ply innum erable num bers o f m onads in alm ost infinitely v a ry ­
ing degrees o f developm ent. T h e higher m onads form the vehicles
o f the D hyáni-B uddhas, the H ierarchy o f Com passion ; bu t there
are m onads, hosts o f them , o f interm ediate and low er degrees, and
o f still low er and o f the low est degree ; and the low est form the
m aterial w orld, w hich w e see around us. A s said above, from the
interaction o f the indw elling force and o f the vehicle in w hich it
w orks, or, in other w ords, from the inform ing spiritual pow ers
im pelling and urging these m onads in various states o f evolu tion
tow ards further progress, spring the various degrees o f conscious­
nesses in N ature. W e are som e o f these m onads, b oth our H igher
E gos and our personal egos. W e ourselves are m onads in the
particular state o f evolution in w hich w e find ourselves ; and w e
are on our w ay to becom in g conscious co-w orkers w ith N ature :
or, in other w ords, slow ly evolvin g ou t (or into) the D h yán i-
Chohans or L ords o f C ontem plation, the M ánasaputras, o f future
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 287
M anvantaras. W e were, in form er Kalpas, or M anvantaras,
m onads in a still low er state o f evolution than that in w hich
w e are now , form ing then the vehicles of Those w ho are still ahead
o f us, and w ho n ow still w ork through us, through our higher and
our personal egos, and w ho thus inspire us to progress upw ards,
and w ho are, in fact, our Inner G o d s : our very Selves, yet
d iffe re n t!
The w ork of evolution is, in fact, as so often said in these
m eetings under the T eacher’s explicit instructions, the raising o f
the personal into the Im p erson a l; the raising o f the m ortal to
put on the garm ents o f Im m ortality ; the raising of the beast to
becom e a m an ; the raising o f a m an to becom e a god ; and the
raising o f a god to becom e still m ore largely divine. W hen we
say “ raising a beast to becom e a m an ” , we d o not, how ever,
thereby m ean the scientific hypothesis m iscalled “ evolution ”
and properly called tra n sfo rm ism . The T heosophic doctrine of
evolution is im m ensely greater, infinitely (if w e can use that
expression) m ore profound, than those scientific theories. A
beast never becom es a self-conscious, thinking m an according to
the scientific m erely m echanical doctrine of m aterialistic trans­
form ism , any m ore so than a pile o f m ortar and bricks self-develops
into a m ansion, or a rough block o f m arble into a noble statue. It
is the inner m onad, the indwelling fire, which continually urges
or brings forth into action the latent lives and forces in the atom s.
E ach atom in itself is a sleeping soul, and this, awakened, is what
evolves or develops, not the m erely physical b od y. R em em ber
the threefold category that H . P. B lavatsky gives us : G o d s,
first ; M o n a d s , s e co n d ; A to m s , t h ir d :— Gods, the divine or
highest triad ; M onads, the upper triad o f the sep ten a ry ; and
the A tom s, the low er quaternary of the septenary. E ach one o f
those atom s, w hich are sim ply incalculably great in num bers,
form ing the low er quaternary as already said, is a sleeping god ,
an em bryo god rather. Its inner nature m ust be brought out,
and that bringing ou t is evolution, the bringing out of inner
capacities, each atom -en tity m aking, as it does so, its ow n vehicles.
This is the doctrine o f Self-directed E volution , follow ing the urge,
the prim ordial impress, of the D hyani-Chohans. A ll this has been
set forth b y us before, in other studies.
In past studies w e have spoken o f the Initiations (and of the
doctrine o f E volu tion taught anciently therein) as being a
“ F orcing-S chool W e are grateful to our Teacher for rem inding
us that this w ord “ forcing ” is am biguous. T h e w ord is subject to
m isinterpretation. L et us then put in its place the w ord q u ic k e n ­
in g , or a w a k e n in g , the w ord “ quickening ” m eaning “ life ” in
contrast w ith w hat is inert or d e a d ; therefore, it was the q u ic k e n ­
in g , the e n liv e n in g , the b r in g in g o u t o f that w hich is w ithin.
288 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
This idea is the k ey-th ou gh t o f the Theosophical doctrine o f
evolu tion .
A beast n o m ore develops m echan ically into a m an than d o
pieces o f iv ory , and cupfuls o f polish, and pieces o f w ood and rolls
o f w ire, naturally fall together and take proper form and " trans­
form ” them selves into a piano. Im possible I W h at m akes a
piano is the architect o f it, the m an, the th in k e r; so evolu tion
is the w orking u pon and in m atter o f the spiritual en tity w hich
takes and form s and urges onw ards the m aterial vehicles in w hich
it is. This is the k ey o f the T heosophical doctrine of E volu tion .
W hen w e speak o f the incarnation o f the M ánasaputras, the
thinking entities, the " Sons o f M ind ” , it is o f course understood
that th ey are parts of, or entities from , the H ierarchy o f C om ­
passion, from the Light-side o f N ature ; and while evolution,
the natural evolvin g (w ith the prim ordial spiritual or D h yán i-
Chohanic im press behind it) o f N ature into higher beings w ou ld
take place and actually takes place continuously, as already
p oin ted out, that process w ou ld b e alm ost interm inable in length
o f tim e w ere it n ot for the higher beings w ho give us o f their
light and their life, and th ereby m uch m ore quick ly lead us on.
T h at is w hat is m eant b y the Mánasaputras* “ descent into
incarnation T h ey are our higher natures, and, paradoxical as
it is, are m ore largely evolved beings than w e are ; th ey were the
spiritual entities w ho " quickened ” our personal egos, w hich were
thus evolved into self-consciousness, relatively sm all though
that y et be. One, and yet m an y ! A s you can light an infinite
num ber o f candles from one lighted candle, so can you , from a
spark o f consciousness, quicken and enliven innum erable other
consciousnesses, lying, so to speak, in sleep, or latent, in the
atom s.
This brings us d irectly to another m atter. W e all possibly have
heard o f “ contradictions ” in The Secret Doctrine, or in our
esoteric teachings. There are n o contradictions there ; there are
apparent contradictions, if you like, bu t an apparent contradiction
is really the figure o f speech called a paradox. It is the fam ous old
w ay o f the ancient Schools o f O ccultism , to teach b y paradoxes
or b y parables, as Jesus is said to have done. There is m anifest
a p rofou nd know ledge o f hum an p sych ology in basing teachings
on this principle. T h e aim is deliberately to arouse the m ind, to
astonish, to m ake the hearer think for himself. Y o u can n ot teach
a ch ild to eat or to w alk b y w alking for it or b y feeding yourself
for it. It m ust learn to feed itself. It m ust itself learn to w alk.
Sim ilarly, students, neophytes, m ust learn to think for them ­
selves, to stand upon their ow n feet. It is, I repeat, a very
p rofou n d know ledge o f p sych ology, o f hum an thinking, w hich
m ade the ancient T eachers, and m akes our M asters o f W isdom
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 289
tod ay, to follow the sam e old principles, a m eth od w hich our
T eacher here has instructed us to follow when these studies w ere
begun. Y o u will have n oticed that in n o case has an y su bject
been at first openly and fully stated or follow ed to its ultim ate, first
because it is im possible ; second, because it was obviou sly neces­
sary to say certain things first, trying to arouse attention, trying
to arouse h o n est objection s— n ot m erely criticism s— bu t honest
ob jection s in you r ow n m ind w hich you yourselves m ust solve ;
and then later other aspects o f the su bject were brought out and
other sides o f the teachings w ere given. Som e o f you know this
fact, o f c o u r s e ; bu t I am speaking m ore particularly o f our
you n ger and newer m em bers. This m ethod is a system o f teaching
diam etrically opposite to that pursued in the W estern w orld
since the dow nfall o f the M editerranean civilizations. The
popular m ethod tod ay is that o f the pure brain-m ind, of that
m ind w hich is m ortal and goes to pieces w ith the death of the
b od y. Its fo r te is the m ere m em orizing o f tim es, places, names,
dates, etc., in short, everything that can be m em orized from
books or daily occurences, and stuffed into the brain ; and this
m ind dies. T hat is one reason w h y w e d o n ot rem em ber our past
incarnations, because our m inds were p un y and dealt w ith little
and evanescent things. B ut, Com rades, the m em ory o f our past
incarnations nevertheless inheres and rem ains in our higher
natures, for this nature deals on ly w ith principles and generals ;
and som e day, w hen we shall have passed out o f and beyon d our
planet, w e shall rem em ber those past lives, unless indeed they be
those cases o f incarnations of a lost soul, in w hich cases there
rem ain on ly blank pages, as it were, in the spiritual V olum e of
Life.
W e are picking up stray threads of thought this evening,
threads which it is necessary, as said before, to w eave into the
picture w hich the Teacher has instructed us to attem pt to outline
and to define. L et us illustrate som e of these so-called “ con tra­
dictions ” b y a few exam ples. Thus : T h e m o o n is old er th a n the
s u n ; the s u n i s o ld er th a n the m o o n . N o contradiction is here,
b u t there is a paradox. A gain : the s u n i s o ld er th a n a n y o f its
p la n e ts ; th e p la n e ts a re old er th a n th e ir s u n . N o contradiction
again, b u t a paradox. L et us explain these paradoxes at once.
T racing the evolu tion o f the solar system according to the E soteric
Philosophy, w e poin t ou t first that the M ilky W a y is the store­
house o f celestial bodies to b e ; as it were, the nursery from
w hich seeds o f future suns go forth to begin their m anvantaric
courses. W hen the tim e com es for such an event to happen, a
com et, in its prim ordial ethereal robes, starts forth to enter upon
its peregrinations, and after circling around and passing through
w hat is to us illim itable Space for long aeons o f time, it, driven
290 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
b y karm a, or drawn b y karm a, or under the guidance of karm a,
if you will, reaches that particular region in Space w hich was
actually the spot or region occu pied b y itself in a form er im bodi-
m ent as a sun, and it settles there, and awakens and enlivens and
quickens the solar dust around it (for Space is full o f it), and w e
then have a nebula. Furtherm ore, it gathers around itself larger
ethereal rem nants o f its form er self, when it w as also a s u n ;
and these accrete to them selves other particles “ wandering in
Space ” , as we can s a y ; and in due course these other bodies,
w ith their accretions, becom e the planets of the new solar system .
W h at is a planet ? W h at its origin ? A sun runs through its
kalpic course, its m anvantaric period, w hich is a Solar M anvan-
tara ; and when its tim e com es to go into pralaya, into its R est,
its internal force is w eakened and— it dies. This is n ot an event
o f a day, bu t an event requiring m uch t im e ; and w hat was its
low est principle (corresponding to o u r physical b ody) disintegrates
into literally innum erable particles. Call them “ atom s ” if you
like. R em em ber, please, that the sun is neither solid— nor w ill
it be then, when it dies— nor is it liquid, nor is it gaseous. A fter
its death, it dissolves into innum erable “ atom s ” or particles,
and these particles begin their long peregrinations through the
fields o f Space, w andering in the im m ense solitudes for long, lon g
aeons; until that indwelling entity o f the form er sun, w hich has
its ow n inspiring inner presence, com es again under the form o f a
com et and reawakens w hat is now the solar dust o f its form er
vehicle-self in the space w here it form erly was— that dust being the
rem nants o f its ow n form er b od y. A n d these particles o f the sun
that was, are attracted to it again, and form its suite o f planets.
Thus, in a sense, the planets o f a sun are its " m oons
So, you see, as an entity, the sun is older than any one o f its
planetary system , rem nants o f its form er b o d y ; but the planets
are older than the sun that n ow is, because th ey actually are
particles o f the form er sun that was o f this plane. W here is the
con tradiction ? A paradox, truly, w hich we had to s o lv e ; for
the solving quickens our intuition, and that is one o f the m ain
aim s and purposes o f this system o f teaching, the quickening of
the intuition. Our brain-m ind is a m ost adm irable servant when
under direction, but it should never be our master. It is n ot even
a g ood se rv a n t; it has n o self-respect. It has n o discrim ination,
judgm ent, intuition, n or understanding.
A n d sim ilar to the above is the paradox concerning the m oon.
Perhaps at som e future stu dy we m ay have tim e to explain it.
A lso sim ilar is the case o f the planetoids, or the so-called asteroids,
o f w hich there are so m an y betw een the planets Jupiter and Mars.
T h ey are rem nants o f a form er solar m anvantara.
Further, all the planets n ot in " obscuration ” or sleeping (as
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 291
M ars is) are surrounded w ith thick and often greatly condensed
clouds o f the kosm ic dust w hich th ey have accreted u n to them ­
selves ; it actually is the form er solar dust o f n ow disintegrated
m oons and planets. F or over our ow n heads and over and
around every one o f the non-sleeping planets o f our solar system ,
there is a continent, literally a continent, o f this kosm ic dust,
so th ick is that solar dust and so num erous are the bodies or
particles o f various sizes w hich com pose it. It acts as a veil p ro­
tectin g us from the terrific energy o f the sun, acting n ot m erely
as a veil o f p rotection against his rays alone, but also against
oth er accidents that m ight happen to us, were there no such
p rotectin g veil surrounding our globe in thick folds.
Mars has at present none or very little o f such a p rotectin g
veil, sim ply because its life-energies have gone to another globe
o f the M artian planetary system — the M artian Planetary Chain—
and the attractive m agnetic force w hich holds together such a
veil therefore is largely absent. B u t V enus and M ercury, for
instance, have, as w e have, such a protectin g veil, although m uch
thinner in M ercury’s case than in that of Venus, because M ercury
is ju st em erging from “ obscuration ” , and it is w hat the astrono­
m ers see w hen th ey look at those planets through their telescopes,
when th ey see the “ clouds ” , and note that th ey cannot see the
face o f the planet itself. T h ey really see the veil. W e are n ot
conscious o f the veil protectin g us. Som ew hat like a m an in a
room w ith one o f those w hite net curtains over his w indow — he
can see outw ards, and discern w hat passes in the street b eyon d ;
bu t the m an in the street cannot easily see him .
A s a final exam ple this evening o f the use o f the paradox in our
stu dy, I take the follow ing. A t a form er stu dy we said that
N ature never repeats herself. W e repeat it this evening : N ature
never repeats herself. In a later stu dy we stated that N ature
does nothing bu t repeat herself. W e repeat it this e v e n in g :
N ature does nothing bu t repeat herself. C ontradiction ? N o.
P aradox ? Y es. L et us see if we can m ake this apparent con ­
tradiction a little clearer. W h at are cycles ? R epetitions. W h at
are hierarchies ? R epetitions. W h at are the m ain repetitions
o f a general typ e ? Principles, forces, planets, suns, orbs, atom s,
m onads, gods— all are m anifold repetitions o f prim al spiritual
im presses. N ature w orks in n o other w ay than b y repeating
herself— repetitions on inferior planes o f prim ordial principles
or root-types.
N ow , w hat m ean we in saying that N ature never repeats
herself ? L et us here use ou r com m on sense. W e are not here to
am use each other w ith folly. N ature likewise never repeats
herself, because y ou w ill never find tw o principles identical, n o
tw o cycles are identical, no tw o m en are identical, no tw o m onads,
|
W
a
t
e
r
y
292 FUNDAMENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
no tw o suns, no tw o planets, no tw o souls, no tw o egos are
identical. Our p arad ox then is solved b y rem em bering that
N ature’s m ethod is U n ity in en d less d iv e rsity .
W e return now to our m ain theme. The Syrians had the
follow ing m ethod or system o f describing the stages o f being
w hich we represent in the accom panying diagram : I, The M ilky
W ay, or the first principle. II, N ebula and com ets, or Seraphim,
sphere 2, counting downwards. I l l , The fixed stars, or Cherubim.
These three were the “ Form less W orld ” . Then the planets.
IV , Saturn, T h ron es; V , Jupiter, D om in ion s; V I, Mars,
Virtues ; V II, Sun, Pow ers ; V III, Venus, Principalities ; IX ,
M ercury, Archangels. X , M oon, Angels. Earth, Men. These
eight were the “ W orld o f F orm ” .
Then we will draw, if you please, a circle which will represent
a sphere, and let it be our earth ; and we will divide this earth
into five zones, the topm ost one being that o f E th e r ; the one
underneath it being Fire ; the one underneath that being A ir ;
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 293
the one underneath th at being W ater ; and the low est one being
E arth.
Please understand also that the Syrians con ceived o f this
W orld-S ystem as a sphere, as a K o s m o s ; hence, our design
m ust have a circle surrounding it— a con vention al figure, it is
true, and n ot im plying any particular lim itations, b u t signifying
the boun din g circle o f that particular K osm os or H ierarchy. The
Syrians further said that outside of this H ierarchy, o f this K osm os,
there were the “ Celestial W aters ” , m eaning th ereby w hat the
Greeks called Chaos, or K osm ic M atter u n developed for us, the
W aters o f Space, in other w ords. A s regards this m etaphor,
“ Celestial W aters ” , you will rem em ber w hat the H ebrew B ible
also says abou t the “ spirit o f the E lohim ” or gods, m ovin g on
the face o f the “ w aters ” .
N ow , the three highest planes are w hat w e call arupa, or
form less ; and the other seven (or eight) planes are rupa, or
form ed. T h ey taught that in the beginning o f things, i .e ., when
K osm ic E volution began, the Prim ordial Essence evolved forth
the m ost subtil and the m ost spiritual E lem ent, and this naturally
was the highest, the M ilky W ay, where all things begin in this
system ; and that the n ext step in evolution dow nw ards was the
com ets and the nebulae; and then the ” 1122 fixed stars ” ;
and then the various solar system s— our ow n solar system , as an
exam ple, bringing us thus to the first o f the seven planetary
regions. A n y other solar system w ould have answered, but ours
naturally was chosen, being ours. E ach o f these steps dow n­
wards represents the stage that the evolvin g W av e o f L ife had
to pass through before it finally culm inated in m aterial existence
as on our earth, for instance ; finally passing through the last
seven stages, the surrounding planes o f the globe. First o f these
last seven was w hat we m ay call the Nam eless E le m e n t; then
the Superether ; then the E ther ; and then the Fire ; and then
the A i r ; and then the W a t e r ; and then the E arth ; these
elem ents n ot being the m aterial things fam iliar to us b y those
nam es, but, so to say, the spirits of the elem ents, the prim ordial
m atter o f w hich our “ elem ents ” are m erely the m aterial repre­
sentation.
Y o u will n otice— and we poin t this ou t in concluding our study
this evening— that the Christian A postle, Paul, speaks o f several
o f these pow ers or E lem ents pertaining or belonging to the
various planets as above described in the Syrian system , such as
the D om inions, and the V irtues, the Thrones, the Principalities,
the A rchangels, and the A ngels. Y ou w ill also rem em ber that in
a form er stu dy we poin ted ou t that really all Christian m ysticism
was founded b y D ionysius, the so-called A reopagite, w ho also used
these sam e n a m e s ; so that in addition to the thoughts w hich
294 FUNDAM ENTALS O F TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
Christianity drew from N eo-P laton ism , and N eo-P ythagoreanism ,
it also drew from (through Paul him self w h o w as a Syrian) these
ancient m ystery-teachings as exoterically expressed in the H ier­
arch y as show n in the diagram this evening. B u t behind this
outw ard expression there was the sam e exposition , there was the
sam e esoteric system and truth, that w e have been stu dyin g for
som e m onths past.
C H A P T E R X X V
THE MYSTERIES OF SEPTENARY NATURE. CORRESPONDENCES I
GLOBES, ELEMENTS, HUMAN PRINCIPLES. THE SEVEN SACRED
PLANETS OF THE ANCIENTS. RACIAL TIME-PERIODS AND
CATASTROPHES.
But upon this one of those more ancient priests (of Egypt) exclaimed, O Solon,
Solon, you Greeks are always children, nor is there any such thing as an aged
Grecian among you. But Solon when he heard this, What (says he) is the motive
of your exclamation ? To whom the priest:— Because all your souls are juvenile ;
neither containing any ancient opinion derived from remote tradition, nor any
discipline hoary from its existence in former periods of time. But the reason
of this is the multitude and variety of destructions of the human race, which
formerly have been and again will be ; the greatest of these indeed arising from
fire and water ; but the lesser from ten thousand other contingencies.
But whatever has been transacted either by us, or by you, or in any other
place, beautiful or great, or containing any thing uncommon, of which we have
heard the report, every thing of this kind is to be found described in our temples,
and preserved to the present day.
The TimcBus of Plato, pp. 446, 447 (Thomas T aylor).
L
E T us open our study this evening by reading from the
first volum e of T h e S ecret D o c tr in e , pages 611-12,
j section 15, entitled “ Gods, Monads, and Atom s ” .
The exact extent, depth, breadth, and length of the mysteries
of Nature are to be found only in Eastern esoteric sciences. So vast and
so profound are these that hardly a few, a very few of the highest
Initiates— those whose very existence is know n but to a sm all num ber o f
A d ep ts— are capable of assimilating the knowledge. Yet it is all there,
and one by one facts and processes in Nature's workshops are per­
mitted to find their way into the exact Sciences, while mysterious help
is given to rare individuals in unravelling its arcana. It is at the
close of great Cycles, in connection with racial development, that such
events generally take place. We are at the very close of the cycle of
5,000 years of the present Aryan Kaliyuga ; and between this time and
1897, there will be a large rent made in the Veil of Nature, and material­
istic science will receive a death-blow.
. . . From the very beginning of ^Eons— in time and space in our
Round and Globe— the Mysteries of Nature (at any rate, those which
it is lawful for our races to know) were recorded by the pupils of those
same now invisible 4
4heavenly men,” in geometrical figures and symbols.
The keys thereto passed from one generation of “ wise men ” to the other.
A t our last m eeting w e discussed a diagram show ing the Syrian
view s, from an exoteric standpoint, o f the external and internal
295
296 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
structure o f the K osm os ; and som e o f you , w ho perhaps observed
carefully, will h ave n oticed that this diagram m atic H ierarchy
seem ed to be represented as all on one plane. N ow that is true,
in a certain s e n se ; but there is m uch in con n exion w ith that
fact th at we cou ld n ot then and n ow can n ot speak of, for the
sim ple reason that we have n ot as yet laid the foundations for
prop erly understanding it. L et it then suffice this evening to say
that, as a m atter o f real fact, the H ierarchies interact and inter­
m ingle— cross each other in all directions, as it were.
A s rem arked in a form er study, the direction o f our evolu tion
is “ outw ards ” at first, and " inw ards ” secondly. On descending
the S hadow y A rc or the A rc o f M atter in the beginning of the
M anvantara o f this our P lanetary Chain, the direction w hich w e
follow ed, as m em bers o f our planetary L ife-W ave, w as from
w ithin outw ards, i .e . t from inner planes, from inner w orlds, con ­
stantly proceeding “ dow nw ards ” — that is, into ever-increasing
m a te ria lity ; and when we reached the m iddle o f the F ou rth
R ou n d on this our G lobe, w hich is the central or turning-point
o f the M anvantara o f this Planetary Chain, the im pulse slackened
and finally reached its close in w hat we call the F ou rth R o o t-
R ace, the A tlantean R ace. Thereafter the reverse process began
its action, and progress, advancem ent, developm ent, retraced
its steps, as it were, in a spiral, the direction thenceforw ard being
from w ithout inw ards, or an ascent in ever-increasing spirituality.
This process o f a prim al “ descent ” into m ateriality, follow ed b y
a “ reascent ” into spirituality, is the course follow ed n ot m erely
in the construction, developm ent, and consum m ation o f the
destiny o f a P lanetary Chain, and o f all Planetary Chains, bu t
also is the course follow ed in the larger cycles of evolu tion , such
as the Solar K alpas, for instance, w hich com prise, each one,
seven o f the Planetary M anvantaras. Seven P lanetary M an-
vantaras m ake one Solar K a lp a ; in other w ords, seven “ D ays
o f B rahm a ” or seven P lanetary Cycles, each cy cle consisting
o f seven R ounds, form one Solar K alpa (or M anvantara).
N ow , in order to assist our m inds in understanding ou r stu dy
this evening, in order to help us in con ceivin g the idea, let us
draw seven circles representing seven globes : three on the d ow n ­
w ard cy cle or S h adow y A rc, one at the b ottom or turning-point,
and three on the ascending or L um inous A rc or Cycle. W e m ay
num ber w ith the letters o f the alphabet (on op posite page).
N ow , these circles represent, if you will, the globes o f the Plane­
ta ry Chain, and the evolu tion o f the L ife-W ave beginning in G lobe
A and running there through its appoin ted cycles, com pletin g
them , and then entering B ; after com pletin g its course in B ,
then entering C ; and then, on ending its course for the R ou n d
in C, entering D , where we are now , and also in the F ou rth R ou nd .
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 297
W e are thus h alf-w ay around the course for ou r R ou n d , the
F ourth, and som ew hat m ore, because we are the F ifth R o o t-R a ce
o f our G lobe D , on w hich seven R oot-R a ces m ust run their
course.
E ach o f these globes, furtherm ore, is builded ou t of, and has its
correspondence w ith, w hat the ancients called the " Elem ents ” ,
that is to say, the bases o f the seven Principles o f N ature. T h ey
are furtherm ore called “ R udim ents ” , n ot in the sense o f som e­
thing incom plete, bu t in the original sense o f root-things, origin-
ants. T h e Sanskrit w ord for the Principles is T a ttw a , m eaning
“ a reality ” , n ot the U tterm ost R eality, the A bsolute o f any
H ierarchy, bu t its root-differentiations in m anifestation ; and
the w ord for the E lem ents is B h d ta s , each E lem ent springing from
its predecessor or superior and giving life and birth to another,
its inferior. T h e ancients alw ays reckoned four E lem ents, and
som etim es f iv e ; ou r School reckons seven in all. The usual
enum eration o f the ancients, is as follow s : “ A ith er ” , “ F ire ” ,
“ A ir ” , " W ater ” , and, lastly, “ E arth ” . T h e last tw o Principles
to be enum erated, and the last tw o E lem ents, the bases o f the
form er tw o, have been given n o nam es exoterically, because they
are n ot yet know n b y our present senses. H um an consciousness
does n ot y et recognise them , b u t th ey are recognised, taught of,
and nam ed, in th e E soteric P h ilosop hy n everth eless; and th ey
are called, for the second, Anupapddaka-tattwa, a Sanskrit w ord
298 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
very difficult to explain in English. The general m eaning is that
it does n ot p roceed from anything else, i.e., “ parentless It
proceeds from itself. Finally, the first o f all the seven, the upper­
m ost on the descending arc o f nature, is called Adi-Tattwa or
“ original tattw a ” , for the P rin cip le ; and Adi-BMta for the
corresponding E lem ent, because it belongs to th e sam e plane o f
being o f the K osm os as the Principle A di-T attw a, but in a som e­
w hat low er degree, being the base or vehicle o f the form er, the
Principle.
These E lem ents, o f course, are n ot the fam iliar things w hich
we k n ow under these nam es, “ fire ” , “ w ater ” , “ air ” , or
“ earth ” — bu t these fam iliar things are their correspondences
on ou r E arth, in a m ystic sense. N ow , although the seven G lobes
o f the P lanetary Chain are not the seven E lem ents respectively,
each to each, yet each G lobe is builded up ou t o f them all, and
one o f the seven E lem ents predom inates, furtherm ore, in each
one o f the G lobes respectively. A ll this w ill be elucidated in our
future studies, when we com e to stu dy the L okas and Talas. F or
instance, on G lobe A : the fire-quality w ould n ot be our m aterial
earth-fire : it w ould there be the spirit offire, so to say, the root
o f fire ; because in the E soteric P h ilosophy “ Fire ” is n ot m erely
the result o f com bustion, accordin g to m odern scientific ideas,
bu t is an actual E lem ent, a R udim ent, a Base. A n d sim ilarly
w ith “ A i r ” , proceeding from " F i r e ” , born from “ F i r e ” .
A n d sim ilarly w ith the E lem ent “ W ater ” , proceeding from
“ A ir ” , born from i t ; and again “ E arth ” born from " W ater ” ,
i.e., the E lem ent “ W ater ” .
It is likewise the old S toic doctrine, that the E lem ents give
birth one to another. M anifestation begins on the spiritual plane,
and as the life-im pulses reach forth in to grosser form s, into
“ m atter ” (to use th e popular expression), the succeeding
E lem ents (Bases, R udim ents) are born, each one from the
preceding one, and from all preceding ones. F or in sta n ce," E arth ”
is born n ot m erely from the E lem ent “ W ater ” , bu t likewise
from “ F ire ” , and “ A ir ” . Furtherm ore, the seven R ou nd s o f
a P lanetary Chain, the seven G lobes o f a P lanetary Chain, and the
seven R oot-R a ces o f any G lobe thereof, has each its predom inating
correspondence w ith one o f these seven E lem ents. Please under­
stand that we m ean n ot at all the fam iliar things we know on our
E arth b y those nam es, bu t the Bases, the Originants, the "sp irits ”
o f them , as it w e r e : the causes, the tattw as, the R eal Things
w hich produce w hat we see here on our E arth.
Furtherm ore, the seven “ sacred planets ” , to w hich we have
alluded in form er studies, are, each one o f them , a m anifestation,
an incorporealization, o f the pow ers o f one o f the seven Solar
L ogoi, or spiritual F orces o f our Solar K osm os, o f w hich F orce-
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 299
E lem ents w e m ay see a faint m anifestation, or, if y ou will, an
adum bration, in the seven colors o f the solar spectrum . W e
reserve further clearer explanation o f this for future studies.
Please n ote also th at ou r ow n hum an seven “ principles ” ,
correspond each one, respectively and relatively, w ith one o f these
E lem ents. T h e seven principles and elem ents o f m an are a
duplication in him o f the seven Principles and E lem ents o f the
K osm os. T he seven E lem ents, or Bases, or R udim ents, are the
seven V ehicles o f the seven Principles o f the K osm os. These
elem ents are at the sam e tim e substance and energy or force,
because energy and substance fundam entally are the sam e thing.
M atter and force are fundam entally the sam e thing. It is, as it
were, the upper and the low er side, the inw ard and outw ard, the
im pulse and its results or fruits.
A n d furtherm ore, w ith regard to the seven sacred planets
m entioned a b o v e : when the E soteric Science o f the ancients
spoke o f seven sa cred planets, certain ones especially w ere
designated, because, as a m atter o f fact, each of the planets
know n to us is itself con n ected w ith seven other planets w h o are
to it its seven sacred planets. Our earth is n ot one o f the seven
sacred planets o f the ancients. T hose seven sacred planets were
Saturn ; J u p ite r; Venus ; M ercury ; the planet very near to the
sun, at present invisible bu t suspected, and called b y som e
m odern astronom ers V ulcan ; a sixth w hich w e m erely m ention,
at p re se n t; and a seventh som etim es seen near the m oon— b y
those w h o “ have eyes to see ” 1
It will be recollected that it was rem arked at a form er study
that the V ulcan-planet was first discovered, or supposed to be
discovered, on M arch 26th, 1859, w hen it was seen in transit across
the solar disk, and astronom ers since then have searched for it and
have n ot been able to find it. T he teaching w ith reference to that
planet, the highest (in one sense) o f our seven sacred planets, is
this, that it becam e invisible to our physical senses at abou t the
m iddle p oin t o f the third R oot-R a ce ; bu t as w e have now reached
again, on the upw ard A rc, the plane corresponding to the degree
o f plane-developm ent o f the third R o o t -R a c e ; in a relatively
short cy clic period, it should begin again to show itself ; b u t even
tod ay, w hile it m ight be generally invisible on account o f w hat
w e m ay call its ethereality, if searched for b y telescope it m ight
nevertheless be seen, under favorable conditions, crossing the
solar disk. A n d w h y ? B ecause the truly indescribable brilliance
o f the sun throw s anything that appears before it, into visibility,
so to speak, as a darker b o d y , and it cou ld thus be seen as such a
sh adow y b o d y crossing the solar disk. A t least that is one reason,
probably, w h y astronom ers have searched for this planet and
have— or h ave n ot yet— foun d it.
300 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
W ith regard to the seventh m entioned above, w hich is the
“ low est ” o f our seven sacred planets, the one esoterically spoken
o f as " near the m oon ” , that planet is in its last or seventh R ou n d ,
and is therefore dying. T he p robability is that it also, to our
present physical senses, is m ore or less ethereal, and therefore
p ractically invisible, except in certain very favorable conditions.
B efore our planet shall have reached its last or seventh R ou n d ,
our M oon will have disintegrated into stellar dust, b u t b y that
tim e this secret or m ystery-planet “ near the m oon ” and now
dying, will be dead, and will be to us as a m oon ; n ot a true m oon
in the sense o f our lunar m other, bu t rather a satellite. It w ill
a p p e a r to us as a m oon ; and, indeed, w ill be a “ m oon ” , because
it will be a dead b od y.
T here is a great deal that sim ply cannot b e said— at least n ot
yet— abou t these seven sacred or m ystery-planets, for the sim ple
reason that these studies, b y the T eacher's instructions, are to b e
published, and w e understand perfectly that there are certain
things that the public has no right to know. B u t w e have poin ted
ou t before that the seven principal D hyani-C hohans, or L ords
o f M editation, are very intim ately connected, each, to each,
respectively, w ith the seven m ystery-planets or sacred planets, that
is, the seven w hich are the sacred planets for the earth. T here
are m any other planets in our solar system ; bu t on ly seven o f that
num ber are our seven sacred planets.
E ach other planet, Jupiter, let us say for instance, has its ow n
seven sacred planets, and all belonging to our solar system , bu t
n ot all of them w ould necessarily be o u r seven sacred planets. Y e t
each one, b y the interconnexion or interm ingling of the elem ents
o f K osm ic construction, each one of them , I say, is a solar locus.
H ere again is som ething that w e m ust tou ch upon before w e pass
on farther.
Man is higher than the globe he lives on. M an is higher than
the sun. Y ou and I sitting here, occu p y a status spiritually
higher than the sun, although it is the spiritual and vital locus
o f the solar system . T h e sun w e see is n ot the true sun. T h e sun
w e see is m erely the focu s o f the titanic forces playing on the
other side, through it. A n d m an is higher than it, and yet com es
from it, from the inner side of it, so to say. Further, as poin ted ou t
in another study, d o n ot be carried aw ay b y scientific theories, for
science is absolutely n o criterion o f spiritual know ledge, w hich is,
as yet, far b eyon d its scope or reach. O ur physical bodies, i x . t the
b o d y o f each one o f us, is a kosm os, even, relatively speaking,
a universal kosm os. E ven our m od em science is beginning to
suspect this truth, and the scientists now speak o f the atom ,
form ed o f its electrons and protons, as com posing a m iniature
solar system . There is no particle o f substance or m atter w hich is
FUNDAM ENTALS OF T H E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 301
free from life, barren o f intelligent life and lives ; and there are
beings in and on the electrons o f the atom s of our b o d y w hich are
higher than the p e r s o n a l self o f us is. A sublim e thought to think
a b o u t ! W e have, indeed, higher responsibilities inherent in us
than we dream of. Our b od y , in very truth, is a T em ple of L ife !
It m ay be said b y som e few w ho think th ey know our view s, and
w ho d o n ot, that we speak som ew hat harshly of scientific m en.
W e d o n ot adm it the charge, for it is false ; b u t w e have said, and
w e now repeat it, that w e have no hesitancy in rejectin g scientific
theories w hen we h on estly cannot accept them , or believe them
untrue. A f a c t ,^ r is a divine thing. W e are grateful for the noble
and often self-sacrificing labors o f scientific w ork ers; n obod y, no
people on earth tod ay, is m ore grateful to science, when it m eans
c la ssifie d a n d ordered k n o w led g e, than are the Theosophists. B u t
the m ere scientific theories o f scientific m en are another thing
entirely ; and we have n o m ore patience w ith them w hen w e
believe them untrue, than w ith any oth er untruth ; we have
such degree o f gratitude and o f patience, on the other hand, for
w hat w e con ceive that th ey possess o f truth. N o m ore. W e
attack n o honest m an, w hatever be his private opinions. W e
attack no facts. E v ery real fa c t is a fr ie n d to u s ; and w e w elcom e,
w e applaud, we laud, the m agnificent efforts o f the researches
and researchers into nature ; but to take w holesale and to sw allow
at a gulp som ething that som e scientific bigw ig m ay dangle before
our eyes, m erely because he attem pts to foist his personal opinion
or h ob b y u pon the w orld, is another thing entirely.
I have received a letter from a friend w hich is w ell w orth reading
in this con n exion at this point. I cite a portion o f it w ith an
included quotation concerning the planet V ulcan :— " ' Seeliger
has con clu sively show n that there is enough of the cosm ic dust
w hich form s the Zodiacal Light to account for all the discrepancies
in the m ovem ents of M e r c u r y a n d so m ake a ‘ V u lc a n ' unneces-
sary.
“ This was w ritten abou t tw elve years ago, and was supposed
to settle the w hole difficulty of M ercury's 42 seconds per century
change in perihelion position ''. N ote f i r s t : the perturbations
in the m ovem ents o f M ercury were first explained b y an unknow n
planet called V ulcan. W ell, V ulcan cou ld n ot be fou n d again, so
the theorists said that it m ust be cosm ic dust w hich produces
these perturbations. Second t h e o r y : I qu ote again from the
letter :— “ T hen com es friend Einstein and starts explaining it in
an entirely different w ay " , and “ cosm ic dust '' in its turn is
scientifically m ade aw ay with. Then com es “ Professor P oor, of
C olum bia U niversity and show s that E instein's th eory about
M ercury upsets the positions o f the other planets m ore than it
helps M ercury— so there you are !
302 FUNDAM ENTALS O F TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPHY
“ I adm ire their w onderful ingenuity in m aking theories for the
m arvels th ey have discovered under the lim ited conditions at
their disposal, bu t w e certainly m ust keep an open m ind on the
things w hich are su bject to such various interpretations
V ery well put. It covers the ground v ery neatly.
W e are nearing the conclusion o f our stu dy for this evening, bu t
m eanwhile there is a m atter w hich requires som e treatm ent before
w e close, and that is w ith regard to the R oot-R a ces o f any globe
o f our Planetary Chain. T ake the R aces, for instance, o f our
ow n G lobe D , o f our P lanetary Chain, G lobe D being the low est
in the Chain, as y ou know . N ow these R oot-R a ces occu p y vastly
m ore tim e in their evolution than is com m on ly supposed. Tim e
runs into m illions o f years for any and for each R oot-R a ce. It is
com m on ly supposed b y som e w ho have n ot read H. P. B lavatsk y’s
Secret Doctrine w ith the attention that they should have given to
it, that ou r R oot-R a ce, the F ifth , is on ly about one m illion years
old now . T h at idea is n ot true, and H . P. B lavatsky says nothing
o f the sort. In V olum e II, page 435, o f The Secret Doctrine, she
says that our F ifth R oot-R a ce is abou t one m illion years old, as
a race sui generis and quite free from its parent-stem. H ow m any
m ore m illion years did it require to reach even that point, born as
a R oot-R a ce at abou t the central point o f the M other-R ace ? It
required m illions o f years for our R ace to reach the central p oin t
o f its career, where we are now. Our great racial catastrophe,
w hich w ill com e u pon us as their ow n cam e in due tim e u pon all
other form er R oot-R aces, and as such a catastrophe will com e
upon the tw o R aces w hich are to succeed our F ifth R ace, i.e., the
Sixth and Seventh R oot-R a ces, has n ot yet reached us, bu t it is
com ing. A n d we shall then have w ork to d o if w e are faithful to
our Teachers, and to our School, during those trying epochs, aeons,
periods, o f the far future.
A n d another th in g : W hile each R oot-R a ce is destroyed
alternately b y fire and b y w ater, let us not forget that the other
elem ents likewise are at w ork at the sam e tim e ; but it is fire
and w ater m ore particularly w hich affect and cause the displace­
m ents of continents or rather their subm ergence ; and the
em ergence or rising o f the new lands. There is an interesting
p oin t o f our doctrines in this connexion, and I now briefly allude
to it.
T h e teaching is that the First, the Third, the F ifth , and the
Seventh R oot-R a ces, are w hat m ay be called aqueous ; and the
Second, the F ourth, and the Sixth— those w ith even num bers—
are w hat we m ay call the terreous R aces ; in other w ords, those
w ith uneven num bers, 1, 3, 5, and 7, flourish on our G lobe at
tim es when the oceans cov er m ore o f its surface than does the
land ; and the conditions are reversed in the Second, Fourth, and
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 303
Sixth Root-Races, when there is more land than water on the
Globe’s surface. Fire destroyed the First Race, as it destroyed
the Third Race also; water destroyed the Second and also the
Fourth Race; and fire will destroy the Fifth, water the Sixth,
and fire again the Seventh. Now, geologically speaking, it is
this alternation in extent of land or water which brings about this
cyclical condition. Let us try to make this matter a little more
clear. The Third Race perished by fire, which means the action of
subterrene earthquakes and of volcanoes, principally, followed
by submergence. Now the Third Race was an “ aqueous ” Race,
that is to say, there was then more water on the face of the
earth than land. So today, in our Fifth Race, at about the
middle period of our Race’s life-cycle, there is one-fourth as much
land as of water on the surface of the globe, i.e.t three times as
much water as land. When our Root-Race shall be drawing
towards its end, the coming catastrophe will be shown by immense
systemic and minor seismic and volcanic disturbances, announc­
ing the submergence of our continental system and the emergence
of new lands for the following Sixth Root-Race, the working of
fire. When the Atlantean system fell, when the Atlantean
continental system had its catastrophe which slowly overwhelmed
it with flood, it was water which caused it. There was then more
land than water ; nature sought a readjustment, a better balance,
and that great system perished by floods. The water came and
submerged the land, of course also accompanied by earthquakes
and the action of volcanoes. We must not imagine that when
a Root-Race perishes through fire or water as the chief causative
agent, that there is then no aqueous or terrene-fire disturbance.
On the contrary, fire and water work together, but the one or the
other then predominates. The Fourth, the Atlantean, was a
terreous period, and Nature followed her usual course in cases of
disturbed equilibrium— " and the waters came and overwhelmed
the land.” Whence the “ waters came ” , is a most fascinating
subject for study, but we have no time to go into it tonight.
Ours is an aqueous period ; and in due course the waters will
slowly tend to disappear, giving place to new lands in the future,
the dwelling-places to be of the next, the Sixth Root-Race.
Katherine Tingley:
I would like to ask Professor de Purucker if he will make an
explanation— which I think would be satisfactory to you, and
which he could do much better than I— and show what will be
the state of civilization, what will be the state of humanity, at
the ending of these different races—when the end comes ? How
will evolution be marked ? Will not those people who will seem
to be the “ victims ” of the terrible catastrophe which comes at
304 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
the end of every race, have the knowledge of the secrets of death,
and look upon rebirth as a glorious release ?
Prof, de Purucker:
I think certainly so ; yes, it is so. The end of every race brings
with it a perfection of what that race was striving to accomplish.
And I dare say that if we could look back and know what took
place when the continent of Atlantis sank, we should realize
that even those comparatively few who by death left the physical
body during that catastrophe, had the realization that what they
had to undergo was no more and no less than merely one form of
death inevitable to all men sooner or later. They knew better
than we do now, although far more sunken in matter, that life is
eternal, for, actually, there is nothing hut life everywhere! And
their physicians could have told them, and did tell them, for they
knew, that every disease of our bodies comes about from an
excess of life, particularly what we may call the malignant or
wasting diseases. In these cases it is life running riot in the body,
and that is what causes death. They knew it better than we.
Furthermore, no one should think that in these racial catastro­
phes, every one is swept away in a moment in a fearful confusion
and chaos, and that there is no hope, and that everything is but
wild despair. Not at all. These catastrophes come on slowly.
The continents sink through the ages. Man migrates and leaves
the sinking lands behind, and moves to higher and better ones, new
ones, fresh ones, where new races are born out of what we justly
may call the death of the old.
Nothing, I suppose, that I might mention, could equal the
horror of the catastrophe of Lisbon years ago, when tens of
thousands of people perished in an earthquake; or the fearful
catastrophe at Messina, in Sicily, only a few years ago ; and other
earthquakes and tidal-waves which you all may remember. We
are in our own great cyclical catastrophe now, though it is but
beginning. How much worse is the agony of heart, let us say, of
one who is at the bedside of one whom he loves ! Ah ! There
you have anguish ! But sudden catastrophes, when they do occur,
occur mostly on a relatively small scale. When the races near
their ends, the continents sink slowly. There are much worse
things than merely losing the physical body, for those whose
destiny it is to be in a racial catastrophe. They will know the
beautiful secrets of death. At the end of our race we shall know
it far better than the Atlanteans did. But not one so perishes
individually, unless it is his personal Karma. How about the tens
of thousands who perish yearly in steamer, train, automobile, mine
and various other accidents ? Pray reflect.
CHAPTER XXVI
THE MICROCOSM, A MIRROR OF THE MACROCOSM. ELEMENTS,
PRINCIPLES, MANIFESTATIONS OF THE ONE LIFE. RELATIVITY :
A FUNDAMENTAL CONCEPTION OF THE ANCIENT WISDOM.
“ Man," says Van Helmont, “ is the mirror of the universe, and his triple
nature stands in relationship to all things." . • rr T
Isis Unveiled, I, 213.
. . . there is but one element. . . . This element then is the— to speak meta­
physically— one sub-stratum or permanent cause of all manifestations in the
phenomenal universe. The ancients speak of the five cognizable elements of
ether, air, water, fire, earth, and of the one incognizable element (to the uniniti­
ates) the sixth principle of the universe— call it Purush Sakti, while to speak of
the seventh outside the sanctuary was punishable with death. But these five
are but the differentiated aspects of the one. As man is a seven-fold being so
is the universe— the septenary microcosm being to the septenary macrocosm
but as the drop of rain water is to the cloud from whence it dropped and whither
in the course of time it will return. In that one are embraced or included so many
tendencies for the evolution of air, water, fire, etc. (from the purely abstract down
to their concrete condition) and when those latter are called elements it isto indicate
their productive potentialities for numberless form changes or evolution of being.
The Mahatma Letters, p. 91.
1
ET us open our study this evening by reading from The
Secret Doctrine, Volume I, section 16, pages 638-9.
A In ancient Symbolism it was always the Su n (though the
Spiritual, not the visible, Sun was meant), that was supposed
to send forth the chief Saviors and Avat&ras. Hence the connecting
link between the Buddhas, the Avat&ras, and so many other incarna­
tions of the highest Se v e n . The closer the approach to one’s P rototy p e,
“ in Heaven/’ the better for the mortal whose personality was chosen,
by his own p ersonal deity (the seventh principle), as its terrestrial
abode. For, with every effort of will toward purification and unity
with that “ Self-god,” one of the lower rays breaks and the spiritual
entity of man is drawn higher and ever higher to the ray that super­
sedes the first, until, from ray to ray, the inner man is drawn into the
one and highest beam of the Parent-SUN.
That is a superb passage. It contains in embryo the substance
of our studies for some weeks past. It will be remembered that at
our last meeting, the Teacher spoke of our School as being a
Hierarchy. Verily it is so, because while we form the outermost
circle, as it were, of the Hierarchy of Compassion, we do belong
to it nevertheless, as distinguished from the bulk of humanity,
whose inner fires have not been lighted, as ours have been, at least
in some degree, by our Teachers. We form a body ; and as our
Teacher, sitting here present, is our highest link among ourselves
305
3o6 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
with the Masters, so one of them more particularly is our link
with the spiritual Hierarchy from which we draw our inner life,
spiritual and mental, the one whose duty, self-assumed, it is to
light our fires, so that we in turn may quicken, enliven, and light
the fires of others, who know even less of the Ancient Wisdom than
we do. Our supreme chief is that wondrous Being, who, in his
spiritual capacity, is the Dhyáni-Buddha of this Fourth Round,
whose human representative is the Chief of what we commonly
call the great White Lodge, he to whom our own Masters look up
for quickening and enlightenment, he who lights their fires as
they light and quicken ours.
How is this quickening and lighting done ? How was it that
the Mánasaputras worked, in their incarnations in the hitherto
senseless humanity, to raise man— if we can give to the humanity
of that time that name— from spiritually and mentally senseless
beings to self-conscious humanhood ?
Listen. Every one of the seven principles of man, as also
every one of the seven elements spoken of at our last meeting
(corresponding in the Kosmos to the seven principles in man), is
itself a mirror of the universe, that is, it contains in itself every­
thing that the Boundless All contains. Everything is in the
microcosm that exists in the Macrocosm ; the one, the less,
mirrors the other, the greater. In other words, each of the
elements, each of the principles, each of the rudiments to blossom
forth later into divinity, is itself a septenary or sevenfold entity,
existing on its own septenary plane, which to it is as palpably
certain, real, and substantial as this our physical plane is to us
as seen through our physical eyes and heard through our physical
ears, or sensed by the media of the other senses, two more of
which, by the way, are still to be developed.
Now each one being a septenary, each one of these Principles
or Elements is a copy in miniature, if we may use that word, of
the Whole. For instance, the principle of Manas is septenary.
It has its own átman, its buddhi, and its manas— the Manas-
manas, which is its own particular essence, or swabháva ; next,
its karna or desire-principle ; then its vital essence; then its
garment, its linga áaríra, or model-body, so to say, that which
gives it its own particular shape and conformation, according to
the qualities of that plane; and finally its sthúla-sarira, or
lowest portion or vehicle or carrier or bearer.
Now, these Mánasaputras or “ Sons of Mind ” , children of
Mahat, are said to have quickened and enlightened the Manas-
manas of the manas-septenary, because they themselves are
typically mánasic in their essential characteristic or Swabháva.
Their own vibrations, so to say, could cause that essence of manas
in ourselves to vibrate in sympathy, much as the sounding of a
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 307
musical note will cause sympathetic response in something like
it, a similar note in other things.
Who are these Manasaputras ? They are ourselves in a sense,
but we are rather and more particularly those who were quickened
and enlivened. They are a mystery ; they are at once our higher
selves— not our highest selves but— our higher selves, and yet
different. We have shown in past studies that from the One
springs all the manifold differentiations of a Kosmic (or any other)
Hierarchy, and that there is a perfect kinship or unity of being
throughout. These sublime thoughts can be very clearly under­
stood if we awaken in ourselves that portion of our nature to
which they are native and familiar. We can do it, and it depends
upon us to do it. Why is it that the Masters choose, from time
to time, a certain one or certain ones, and take him or them to
themselves ? Because they see in those so selected the inner
Master already quickened, enlivened, at least to some extent.
Would they take a beast ? No. Why not ? Because the beast
is not quickened. Would they take an ordinary man ? No.
Why ? Because the man is not quickened, he is not awakened,
he is not yet conscious in himself of the inner essential Buddha,
the Awakened One. There is no question of arbitrary choice
about this fact. It is a selection and an election of the fit and
proper ones ; it is therefore just, it is therefore right.
Let us pursue this thought a little more. Let us take Nature
and consider her Elements. Now this word “ Element ” is from
the Latin and it means one of the rudiments of things, the word
“ rudiment ” in its original sense. The Sankhya especially, one
of the six accepted schools of philosophy of India, and also even
the Vedanta— perhaps the noblest of the six Indian Schools—
both speak of the six original “ producers ” or Elements of Nature
as Prakritis, the six prakritis derived from the primal Prakriti, or
root-Prakriti, the first and highest. The Sankhya also speaks of
them and so do many students of the Vedanta, as the six Tattwas
or real elements. Now what is the difference between the six
Elements or prakritis, and the six tattwas ? The prakriti is the
vehicular or bearer or carrier-side, so to say, the substantial side,
and the Tattwa is the analogic or force-side. And these two
fundamentally are one, because, please remember, matter and
force, spirit and substance, are both fundamentally one. Matter
can be called crystallized spirit. We have to hunt for words in
any attempt to describe these things ; hence this is an inadequate
expression, but it perhaps conveys the meaning. Para-Brahman
and Miila-Prakriti, or “ beyond-Brahman ” and “ root-nature ”
of the Vedanta and the Sankhya, represent the same thought, and
these two fundamentally are one. Root-nature is the veil, as it
were, of the primordial energy, the primordial consciousness ; and
308 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
these prakritis in the Sankhya, these six or seven prakritis, stand
for the six or seven Elements of Nature, corresponding to our
human seven principles or six principles. And these are bom, or
issue rather, one from the other, as pointed out in our study of
the seven globes in our study last week. That prakriti which is
the higher plane is the parent of the prakriti which is the lower
plane. First the primordial one gives birth to the second ; Atman,
let us say, gives birth to Buddhi. And Atman and Buddhi com­
bined give birth to Manas, issuing from the two former, and con­
taining the qualities of the preceding two as well as its own. And
Atman, Buddhi, Manas then give birth to Kama, the fourth in
order ; and so on down to the seventh or lowest.
Similarly Globe A, the first on the descending arc, gives birth
to Globe B, and Globe B gives birth to Globe C ; but it does so
with the swabhavic tattwa of Globe A also working in it. And
Globe C gives birth to Globe D, our earth, but with the tattwas
or intrinsic individualities or swabhavas of A and B in it also.
Globe D thus has the tattwas of Globes A, B, and C inherent in
it in addition to its own individual characteristic or swabhava.
When the evolutionary impulse has reached its limit in any
one manvantara— and the limits vary in every manvantara,
because there is no absolute point or position in space, nor any
one particular plane where every evolutionary manvantaric
impulse in the Boundless must stop, for so many monads, so many
hierarchies have so many respective evolutionary impulses and
their respective ends : that is, when that outrushing impulse that
comes from above, carrying these prakritis and principles down
into greater manifestation of matter, has reached the limit
possible for that particular manvantara, it then turns, as it were,
around the goal and begins the reascent.
Now we in our Planetary Chain have passed that goal orturning-
point of the Rounds. In each of the races on any globe of the
Chain, furthermore; in each of the globes during any Round ;
and for each of the Rounds passing through all the seven globes ;
there is a mid-point in its respective evolutionary course, and
that mid-point is its respective goal or turning-point, where the
respective cycle begins a reascent. Hence, there will then be a
sudden rising of the evolving monads or entities; and corre-
spondentially senses hitherto latent and undeveloped will be
developed, and the principles in nature which we now do not
cognise will then be cognised and known. Ether, for instance, of
which we have a mere presentiment today at the middle-point
of our Fifth Race in the Fourth Round, recognised even by science
and spoken of, will, during the Fifth Round become an actuality
in what will then be the atmosphere, as palpable and plain to the
senses as air is today to us.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 309
So, then, when speaking of the Elements or the Prakritis, we
do not mean that the “ earth ” and “ water ” and “ air ” and
" fire ” spoken of by the ancients as 4
1elements ” , are the real
Elemental Prakritis of Nature. That is absurd. The ancients
used those words symbolically. These four (or five things, includ­
ing ether) are merely manifestations— four of them so far
developed— of four or five out of the seven sub-prakritis or sub­
principles belonging to the lowest prakritic Element as manifest
at this stage on our fourth globe, corresponding to the seventh
or lowest Kosmic Plane or Prakriti.
As each Principle is itself a sub-septenary and mirrors the
Boundless, so does each Element mirror all the other Elements;
and from each Element can be drawn the life and nature and
characteristic, in minor degree, of course, of all the other six.
The above-named qualities of the matter of the seventh or lowest
prakriti of our Globe, that is to say, solidity, fluidity, air (there
seems to be no corresponding adjective in English for air, or for
the following one), fire, are merely the correspondences of the
similar sub-prakritis of the four Kosmic Elements or Prakritis in
which our Planetary Chain exists now. Ether as an “ element ”
will come next; and in the sixth Round will be developed the
sixth element; and during the seventh Round will be developed
the seventh. None of the ancient philosophers of the Mediter­
ranean countries, when speaking of “ earth ” , ” water ” , “ air ” ,
“ fire ” , “ ether ” , nor the Hindus, when speaking, for instance
of Akaia or of Adi-Tattwa, meant the material things which we
can sense, such as earth and water. They meant the Root-
Elements of Nature, of which these four or five things that we
sense, are, as it were, presentments or symbols.
Now, the Greeks called the Elements “ Stoicheia ” a plural
diminutive of the word “ stoichos ” , meaning a series, in other
words a hierarchy. The singular “ Stoicheion ” would be an
entity of a hierarchy, a part of it, one of the composite parts of
the hierarchy, although modern scholars can trace no ostensible
reason for giving this name to what they recognise as being the
ancient conception of the Element of Nature. But our philosophy
shows why, and explains that the stoicheia are the seven Prak­
ritis of the Kosmos. Each of the globes of our Planetary Chain
is an imbodiment of all these Elements or seven Prakritis, but
in the manner outlined above, of each Element containing in
parvo all the others. Our earth, for instance, is an imbodiment or
representation of the lowest Prakriti, but there is water and there
is air and there is fire, and we know that there is ether in develop­
ment. We know four and recognise five, an exemplification
of what has just been said. Nevertheless, the seven globes
of our Planetary Chain are not the respective correspondences
310 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
of the seven Kosmic Elements. This would be a “ false
analogy
Each one of the grades of initiation, of which we have spoken
before, corresponds to one of these seven Kosmic Elements ; and
the trials through which the initiant or candidate must pass in
order to prove his capacity, are regulated and governed by the
nature of each one respectively of the seven Prakritis. There are,
as a matter of fact, ten grades or degrees of initiation and ten
Kosmic Prakritis— seven in manifestation, and three Root-
Prakritis or the highest; but as so often pointed out, in our
studies, the uppermost three are so far beyond our utmost
capacity of understanding now that we can do no more than
mention the fact. Always ten— three arupa or formless (to us,
please understand) and seven in manifestation ; and of these
seven the upper triad is, relatively speaking, also arupa.
Now let us here point out something very important— that is,
that all the teaching of the Ancient Wisdom is given from our
plane, so that when we say arupa or " formless ", it does not
mean that in themselves, an sich, per se, these higher planes or
entities are formless, which would be absurd. But to us they
are formless, exactly as ether is formless, because it is not yet
(for us) developed. We have as yet but a mere presentiment of
it in this Fourth Round, and only because we are in the Fifth
Root-Race, corresponding in element to that fifth element,
"eth er". And as a corollary to that, and it is an important
deduction, as regards the beings inhabiting each element, each
principle, of the universal Kosmos: their habitations, their
countries, all that therein exists, to them are as real and palpable
as are palpable and material things on our plane to us. Force,
to us, is substance in motion. Do you realize that our most
dense and rigid matter is force to beings in the hierarchy below
us ? Do we realize that what we call the density and the rigidity
of matter are merely such to our senses, and that this very
density and this rigidity show and prove that our dense and
rigid matter is but a balancing of opposing forces ? Why, even
many modern scientists today, making a right-about-face from
what was utter truth to science some fifty years ago, now say
that there is no such thing as matter per se, that there is nothing
but “ force Matter is therefore to it a maya, an illusion, and
so it is. But so is force a maya, because it is merely matter to
something higher than it. All things are relative, a statement which
is one of the fundamental conceptions of the Ancient Wisdom.
So when we speak of these various Prakritis and Principles,
let us recognise first that these Elements, these Tattwas or
Principles, from whatever viewpoint we may look at them, are
all manifestations of the one Universal Life, which is likewise
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y 3 1 1
Universal Substance in its lower aspect. Spirit and substance
are fundamentally one, two sides to the same thing. Force and
matter are fundamentally one, two sides to the same thing.
This, that is so important, we fain would dwell upon much
longer and give illustrations of its application to our studies.
Let us make a final application tonight. What is the difference
between a Master, and me and you ? The former has his higher
principles awakened and lives in them. And we do not. From
the scientific standpoint, that is all there is to i t ; from the
philosophic standpoint, we may say that a Master has become,
as far as he can be, more at one with the Universal Life ; and from
the religious standpoint or the spiritual standpoint, we may say
that a Master has developed an individual consciousness, or
recognition, of his oneness with the Boundless. This is the very
foundation of the ethics without which there is nothing worthy
of the Ancient Wisdom and of our School. No man can miscon­
duct himself without injecting inharmony, disharmony, into the
human hierarchy of which he is a part, and for this he shall pay,
yea, to the uttermost farthing. But this is no " vengeance ” , no
punishment, by Nature, which merely readjusts the disturbed
equilibrium, or disharmony. It arose out of the exercise of free
will. And the Masters have learned to govern their wills and to
co-operate with Nature as a whole ; thence they grow in strength
of soul, and live in unity with the Divine. That is the difference
between them and us : they live “ at one ” with the spiritual
summit of our hierarchy. We can do it likewise. We can do the
same. It is simply a matter of opening our inner eyes, of cleansing
our souls, of clearing out from our brains the trash which we eat
mentally, the husks which the “ swine feed upon ” , and letting
in the pure, clear life, the “ wine of life It is only the molds
of mind that impede us, nothing but the molds of mind ; and
when we say the “ molds of mind ” we do not exactly mean the
molds of sub-mental matter in which the mind works. That is, I
think, a wrong way to put it. We mean the crystallization of the
mind itself, when mental force becomes mental matter. Therefore
break these molds ; no one can do it for you but yourself. The
molds of man's mind are his greatest enemy, his worst foe, his
strongest opponent, because these molds are living substance.
Your mind is matter, but it is " living ” matter; and every
thought you think clings to the mind and inheres in it, and
becomes what the Ancient Wisdom calls an “ elemental ” , and
it will finally turn and torture you unless you break them— i.e.,
transmute them. What man would do otherwise, when there are
freedom and light and wisdom and peace and glory and know­
ledge unspeakable for the having, for the taking, providing that
we do indeed “ take the Kingdom of Heaven by violence ” !
CHAPTER XXVII
THE TWO FUNDAMENTAL KOSMICAL HIERARCHIES .
* MATTER
AND SPIRIT-CONSCIOUSNESS. CHAOS-THEOS-KOSMOS : GODS-
MONADS-ATOMS.
There are, assuredly, two forms of Brahma : the formed and the formless.
Now, that which is the formed is unreal; that which is the formless is real, is
Brahma, is light.
That light is the same as the sun [the spiritual Sun, not our visible sun which is
only a reflexion, a veil, a form].
Verily, that came to have Om as its soul (atman). He divided himself (&tm
£L-
nam) threefold. Om is three prosodial units (a-fM-fm). By means of these
the whole world is woven, warp and woof, across Him.
Maitri Upanishad, 6, 3, p. 425 (Hume).
An exuberance of power is always present with the highest causes, and at the
same time that this power transcends all things, it is equally present with all
with unimpeded energy. Hence, conformably to this, the first illuminate the
last of things, and immaterial are present with material natures immaterially.
Nor should it be considered by any one as wonderful, if we say that there is a
certain pure and divine matter. For matter being generated by the father and
demiurgus of wholes, receives a perfection adapted to itself, in order to its
becoming the receptacle of the Gods. At the same time nothing prevents more
excellent beings from being able to impart their light to subordinate natures.
Neither, therefore, is matter separated from the participation of better causes ;
so that such matter as is perfect, pure, and boniform, is not unadapted to the
reception of the Gods. For, since it is requisite that terrestrial natures should
by no means be destitute of divine communion, the earth also receives a certain
divine portion from it, sufficient for the participation of the Gods.
Iamblichus on The Mysteries, p. 265, 6 (Taylor).
I
T is nearly fifty years since our first Teacher brought
Theosophy to us— nearly half a century has passed, and
those of us who have had the opportunity of studying
Theosophy during that period, or at least during part of it,
realize the great changes that have taken place in the thought of
the world, changes such that we can only ascribe them to the
spiritual impulses given to the world by H. P. Blavatsky, and
Those behind her.
At the close of our study this evening we shall point to a
number of facts, showing how Theosophists, penetrating the
secrets of the Ancient Wisdom through Theosophy, have fore­
shadowed, prophesied, if you like, some of the greatest of the
scientific discoveries, so-called, that have been made during these
last fifty years.
These are real revolutions in thought, and it is only just that
we should place the merit where the merit is due, for there is no
other cause of such revolutions— which are not merely still
taking place, but which have hardly yet reached their maximum
312
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 313
— than the work done by the first Theosophical Leader, and the
spiritual impulse which she brought into the world at that time.
No other society or no other organization can show anything
similar in the annals of known history.
We open our study this evening by reading once again the
latter part of what we read at our last study from The Secret
Doctrine, Volume I, page 638-9, as follows :
The closer the approach to one's Prototype, “ in Heaven,” the better
for the mortal whose personality was chosen, by his own personal
deity (the seventh principle), as its terrestrial abode. For, with
every effort of will toward purification and unity with that “ Self-god,”
one of the lower rays breaks and the spiritual entity of man is drawn
higher and ever higher to the ray that supersedes the first, until, from
ray to ray, the inner man is drawn into the one and highest beam of
the Parent-SuN.
Two fundamental lines of thought, we trust, have been brought
out in our studies with at least sufficient clearness for present
purposes. Those lines are respectively the exposition of the night-
side, the matter side, the vehicular side, of nature ; and secondly
of the light-side, the spiritual side, the divine side, of nature, the
latter also being in our System called the Hierarchy of Com­
passion. The former hierarchy which pervades and really is the
space, the matter-space, or the space-matter, in which the second
Hierarchy works, is composed of the Hierarchy of the Builders,
the Masons of the World, the Kosmocratores or world-makers,
of mystic Greek philosophy. They are the inferior Hierarchy
spiritually, but have relative dominion over their sub-hierarchies
from their beginning down to their lowest plane, which forms the
mere elemental or nature-forces on the lowest plane of their
kosmic Hierarchy. Such words as “ elemental ” or 0 lowest ”
are mere adjectives describing psychological mysteries. As
hinted, the seven grades of them run up to the lowest of the
Hierarchy of Compassion, forming the divine side. There is no
break between them; actually, they interblend and inter­
penetrate each other. As the spirit works in the soul of man,
and the soul of man works in his lower vehicle, so does the Hier­
archy of Compassion work in and through the Hierarchy of the
Builders.
This thought is so important for the understanding of the
Ancient Wisdom, that we call attention to it again and again,
because it provides the philosophical and scientific framework,
the structural carpentry, not merely of the universe, but of man's
own consciousness, and is the groundwork against which we must
place the picture of what takes place in the processes of Kosmic
evolution and in that of man, as outlined in the ancient initiations
and Mystery schools.
3 i4 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
It was said at a former meeting that man is spiritually higher
than the sun. So he is ; but it was not said which man— pur­
posely not said. The sun is the vital locus of his system, and so
terrific are the forces of that same inwardly divine entity, even
on our plane, that were one of us, a man, to approach within the
range of those forces, he would be simply annihilated, not merely
broken up and dispersed as the physical body is at death, but
reduced to nothing, wiped out. Why ? Because the first five
(counting upwards), i.e., the five lower principles of his psycho­
logical economy, would be dissipated into their component atoms,
each to each on its own plane, and drawn, sucked, into the stellar
body, and only his higher part, the divine part, the spiritual part,
belonging to the Hierarchy of Compassion, the Christ part, the
Buddha part, would remain intact. Why ? Because the latter
part itself is of the same substance as the hid sun, of which our
physical sun is merely the reflexion or the manifestation on this
plane of the divine being behind it. Consequently, when we said
that man is greater than the sun, we meant that his progress
along the path of evolution has proceeded farther than that
entity (considered as a reflexion) which is the sun. He un­
doubtedly is farther along the path of evolution than is his solar
locus— a paradox, indeed, but true ! It was the entry into the
senseless “ shadows ” of his being, i.e.} the four lowest of his
seven principles, by the manas-principle, inferior to the two
highest, during the middle of the Third Root-Race, in this Fourth
Round, that made of him the being that he now is, self-conscious ;
and thereby he became literally an incarnation of the divine.
It now remains with him to bring into activity those inner
forces, his higher principles, which form his inner spiritual nature,
and which are not indeed inert, but only sleeping, as it were. We
speak of the higher principles as “ sleeping ” in a man, a form of
speech which is perhaps correct as a manner of expression, but
really it is the lower ones which are asleep spiritually and need
awakening. The very root budh, from which we have Buddhi,
and Buddha and Budha with one d, means “ to awaken ” , hence
derivatively “ to enlighten ” . Our higher principles are actual
entities living on their own planes, individual beings, fully
conscious and thinking entities. Fix that thought firmly in your
minds, if you please. Our higher parts are not inchoate, un­
co-ordinated, un-developed, sleeping things. They are a unity of
entities, a spiritual Kosmos in miniature.
The Great Awakening of the lower elements in Third-Race
Man that was accomplished by the incarnation of these Mána-
saputras, was repeated, partly dramatically and partly actually,
as said so often before, in the ancient Mysteries and in the
initiations, which were thus a copying of what still takes place in
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 315
nature, and took place in nature pre-eminently during the third
Root-Race. And by those Initiations the attempt was still
further to stimulate, still more to awaken, still more greatly to
enliven and bring forth that inner and higher nature of man.
That great purpose formed the core, the heart and the meaning,
of the ancient initiations. Yet, please mark, initiation and
Mystery do not ihean the same thing exactly. Though very
closely similar in purpose and running on parallel lines, of the
two, initiation meant teaching, awakening, opening the mind.
The Mysteries were the dramatized forms of what took place in
the higher degrees. There were three dramatizations, training
and educating the neophyte for what he must be, and go through,
in the four higher degrees. He was directed and helped in those
higher degrees as far as was made permissible by his karma ; but
the very heart and essence of the trial was a test, and he had to face
it alone, and himself to prove his spirit-power, to prove the soul-
nature of him. If he came through the first Trial triumphant, he
was granted the privilege, and he had the inner strength, to
undertake the higher degrees. There could, under such con­
ditions, be no full protection, no mollycoddling. Just the contrary
of that took place. His teacher watched over his senseless body
while his inner nature was out exploring the realms of space, yea,
entering into the sun, entering into the planets, and into the
moon, and into other things and beings, becoming, losing his selj
and becoming, that which he had to face and conquer, or fail.
Glorious were the privileges of victory; and at the end, at the
seventh Trial, if and when the final triumph came, he rose a
glorified Buddha, a glorified Christ, truly a master of men. Then
he knew, because he had been. This was no mere sensual experi­
ence, sensual in the sense of being an experience of the senses;
hearing, seeing, touching, feeling, smelling, tasting— but it was
being the things and beings of which he had been taught— i.e.,
complete knowledge of Life in this Hierarchy.
Such was the meaning of the higher initiation, of those higher
degrees which went beyond the scope and meaning of the
Mysteries, which latter were the dramatizations of the processes
of kosmical life, the preparation for whatever it was that the
candidate had to face in the four higher initiatory degrees.
In order to make the matter more clear, let us write down a
symbolic outline of the two lines of growth or development of
the two fundamental kosmical hierarchies.
On the left or matter- On the right or divine side, the
side: light-side:
Chaos
Theos
Kosm
os
Gods
Monads
Atom
s
316 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
corresponding each to each ; and psychologically, so far as man
is concerned, i, the divine ; 2, the spiritual or human; and 3,
Kosmic-astral.
Chaos is a Greek word, and is usually thought to mean a sort
of helter-skelter treasury of original principles and seeds of
beings. Well, so it verily is, in one profound sense ; only it is
most decidedly and emphatically not “ helter-skelter It is the
Kosmic storehouse of all the latent or resting seeds of beings
and things from former manvantaras. Of course it is this, simply
because it contains everything. It means space, not the highest
Space, not the Parabrahma-Mulaprakriti, the Boundless— not
that. But the space of any particular hierarchy descending into
manifestation, i.e., what space for it is at that particular period
of its beginning of development. Remember the principle of
relativity. There are no utter absolutes anywhere and never have
been and never will be. The directive principles in Chaos are the
gods of the corresponding column.
Theos is a Greek word meaning god. Corresponding to it are the
monads.
Kosmos is a Greek word meaning arrangement. Kosmos was
also used for a woman’s paraphernalia, decoration, and all that
kind of thing : cosmetics and robes and jewelry. It meant that
which was arranged and kept along the lines and rules of harmony
— i.e., the arrangement of the universe; and corresponding to
it in the other column are the Atoms. Note the three corre­
spondences : Chaos, Gods or divine beings, the kosmic Archi­
tects ; then Theos, for the builders, the Kosmocratores, corre­
sponding to the Monads, the spirit-beings; then Kosmos, the
universe, arranged as we see i t ; and the Atoms, or Vital-Astral
seeds, on the divine side.
We do not speak here of chemical atoms, please understand.
These belong to the Kosmos. As used in this outline, Gods,
Monads, and Atoms, we mean 1, the divine; 2, the spiritual-
human ; and 3, those ultimate particles of substance which
inflame, which inspire, which vitalize, the material kosmos. Each
to each : the Gods work in the Chaos ; the Monads work in and
through the Theos, the Theoi, the Builders; and the Atoms as
the semi-conscious, ultimate entities of matter, work through the
Kosmos or the manifested universe, as prepared according to
what is popularly called natural law, in other words the essential
and inherent operations of Nature, deriving from the Gods and
Monads.
Such an Atom, according to these parallel columns (which are
H. P. Blavatsky’s, of course) signifies the ultimate particle of
matter, which ultimate particle is its (matter’s) seventh principle,
its highest principle; and for that reason the sun is called an
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 317
Atom, because it is the seventh or highest degree of matter
or prakriti on this plane. Prakriti means nature or the developing
power, that which has brought forth manifestation. There are
seven Kosmical Prakritis, and we are in the first or lowest; the
seventh as you count downwards, the first if you count upwards.
Each of these again has seven sub-planes. The sun as an entity
is the highest entity of the kosmical system, the solar system.
But what we see is merely its vehicle, its seventh or lowest or
material Element or Principle, counting downwards. The so-
called “ solar flames ” are not flames. The sun is not burning ;
it is not in combustion ; it is not h o t; what we see is the aura
of the sun, the sixth sub-element or sub-principle of the first or
lowest Prakriti. That aura therefore is the sun's material buddhic
aura, and looked at from the scientific standpoint it is a globe of
kosmic forces. Please remember, as so often said before, that
force and matter fundamentally are the same ; they are simply
different degrees of manifestation of spirit-substance. Matter is
crystallized force ; or, if you like, though it is not so good a
method of describing it, spirit or force or energy is etherealized
matter. Much better is it to put it the other way.
Matter on our plane is crystallized light. Light is substance-
energy or energy-substance, either will do. Call it force. And
light, this force, again is the matter of something still higher
than it, the Prakriti above it.
Now our time has nearly expired, and we wish to call attention
to what was spoken of at the beginning of our study this evening
— i.e.} certain very important and fundamental principles of
thought, which the scientists call discoveries of our era made by
them (or at least in the making by them) but which were antici­
pated in time by us— members of this School, and by others who
were members and are now dead, anticipated and proclaimed by
us, and found out from the study of our Theosophical doctrines.
We have pointed out time and again our relationship to science
and scientific men in such manner that it would seem impossible
to misunderstand our meaning; but perhaps we have been
misunderstood. Please therefore understand that we of our
school, the true Theosophists, look upon science, ordered know­
ledge, ordered and co-ordinated knowledge, as the greatest friend
and ally we have. But when it comes to the theories or specula­
tions or dogmas of scientific men, we accept them or reject them
exactly in proportion as we think that they contain or do not
contain truth— not my truth or your truth, but as they contain
(or do not contain) those fundamental principles which, by their
coherency and consistency and appeal to the best in us, announce
themselves as facts of being, in other words, the principles
taught in our Theosophical philosophy.
Y
3i8 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
We have drawn up a list of a few such anticipations— a quarter
of an hour’s work; and doubtless any one of you could have
extended the list to thrice or four times its length ; but listen to
this ! And please let the ideas sink into your minds if they have
not already occurred to you, and realize what we have done for
the world outside, if nothing else. We have changed the world’s
thought. Practice without theory is emptiness of mind ; theory
without practice is folly. A man who has a beautiful theory, and
does no act to carry it into operation or fact, is a drone, for he was
not born to be a sloth ; but on the contrary, a man who has no
theory, whose ideas are not co-ordinated and directed by
principles, is a mad-man, and acts like a fool. The noblest thing
that we can do is so to change the thought of the world that men
will realize their Oneness with the inner beings on the various
planes of Life Universal, and govern themselves accordingly, not
merely in the legislatures, but in their teachings and in their
personal conduct of life, and in their care for their brothers, and
in their sense of loyalty and fidelity to their teachers, those whom
they know and believe to have that truth.
It indeed is a Great Work, and in doing it we are carrying out to
the world that “ Lost Word ” of which we hear so much, and of
which so little is known, for it is a phrase and even a word taken
from the Ancient Mysteries— the Greek Logos, which means word,
the lost logos of man’s heart and brain— we are indeed bringing it
back : and rightly, for we are parts, individual units, responsible
members, of the Hierarchy of Compassion. Ours is a profound
and heavy responsibility. Our Teachers have told us that those
who take upon themselves this responsibility, but prove false
and treacherous to their Pledge, better were it for them, as Jesus
would say, that they were dead. But enough of this.
We have here sixteen examples. We had no time to draw up
more. Here they are.
1. That simple Materialism, comprising fortuity, chance, and
dead matter, producing life and consciousness, as an explanation
of life and being, is unscientific, unphilosophical, and impossible,
because contrary to nature and reason ; therefore absurd.
2. That other planets are inhabited by intelligent beings, or are
not so, as the case may b e ; and that this is denied not from
knowledge but from ignorance only of such planets; the only
planet that we do know, our earth, bearing intelligent beings. The
denial therefore is irrational, purely speculative and theoretical,
and based solely on supposedly true facts concerning atmosphere,
cold or heat, etc., as these are known on our planet only.
3. The unreal nature of the physical universe, or sphere, i.e
that all we see and know with sensational perceptions, is its purely
phenomenal appearances.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 319
4. That “ Force " is etherealized " matter " ; or, preferably,
th at“ matter " is equilibrated or “ crystallized " forces.
These last two have now been fully admitted by exoteric
scientists.
5. That electricity and magnetism are particular, i.e., cor­
puscular : formed of particles or corpuscles, and therefore
“ matter They are the phenomenal effects of noumenal Causes
— matter or rather matters.
6. That the so-called " modes of motion ” , when H. P.
Blavatsky first brought her message to the world, i.e. forces, of
whilom scientists, as a definition of forces, is a childish effort to
explain forces by ticketing them in a new manner which explains
nothing at a ll; all forces being simply moving matters.
7. That all matter is radiant, i.e., “ radio-active ” , that is, it
radiates ; some forms or states of matter more than others.
Compare the work and discoveries of Becquerel, Röntgen, the
Curies, Rutherford, and Sully, etc., and the work on similar lines
of great thinkers in other countries.
8. That light is corpuscular, because a matter, or substance,
that is, light is a material radiance, in fact.
9. That transmutation of matters, hence of metals, is a fact in
nature, occurring hourly, momently, instantly ; and continuously
through time.
10. That the atom is a divisible body— i.e., the chemical or
physical atom ; it is, so to say, merely a smaller molecule.
Numbers 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 have all been admitted by science,
or practically admitted in some cases in full, in other cases verging
on full admission.
11. That the physical atom is a tiny “ solar system " ; each
member of such a system being in its own turn compounded of
physical infinitesimals, or of sub-atoms, or of infra-atoms. That
also is admitted.
12. That the nebular hypothesis as commonly accepted was
incomplete, insufficient, as a workable hypothesis, although
containing certain elements of natural, that is, of occult, truth.
That also is admitted.
13. That the sun is neither burning, nor even hot, though it is
glowing in one sense, superficially, i.e., on its “ surface " ; nor
does it recuperate its heat and other forces, as alleged, by
shrinkage of volume, nor does radium account for its expenditure
of energy, is practically admitted.
14. That storms— rain, hail, snow, wind— and droughts ; like­
wise most of the earth's heat, are not caused by or derived from
solar energy, but result from electro-magnetic interplay of forces
between the earth's mass and the meteoric mass, or “ veil", above
our atmosphere ; such phenomena or effects being accompanied,
320 FU N D AM EN TALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
partly casually, partly effectually, by periodic expansion or
dilatation of thé atmospheric body and by periodic contraction
thereof ; and that the “ glacial periods ” , so-called, are largely
due to the same causes.
A few months ago, let me interpolate, some eminent scientists
in the northern part of California were investigating the upper
regions of the atmosphere, and to a certain extent they have come
to this conclusion, at least in part and in degree.
15. That Darwinism and Haeckelism are inadequate to explain
and account for the mass of biological phenomena ; and neither
Darwin's " Natural Selection ” nor Spencer's " Survival of the
Fittest ” , are other than minor or secondary operations of Nature ;
that “ transformism ” as taught by the modern speculative
scientist is not Evolution— which is what the Ancient Wisdom
does teach— and is both uncertain as a theory because purely
speculative, and unscientific because as a theory it is based on
data too few ; therefore it is incomplete and insufficient.
We all know what remarkable changes have taken place in tha
theories of the Transformists even since H. P. Blavatsky died.
And lastly (16) : That all things and operations in the Kosmos
are relative, not absolute, in nature ; there being no “ absolutes ”
except in the sense of relativity of relationships ; our teachings
thus anticipating the fundamental concept of Dr. Albert Einstein
on this point.
A t our n ext m eeting, w e shall take up the stu dy o f the atom .
CHAPTER XXVIII
THE ADVENTURE QF AN ATOM. LAYA-CENTERS : SUN, COMETS,
AND PLANETS : SOUL AND MONAD. THE KEYNOTE OF
OCCULTISM.
The Occult Science is not one in which secrets can be communicated of a
sudden, by a written or even verbal communication. If so, all the " Brothers "
should have to do, would be to publish a Handbook of the art which might be
taught in schools as grammar is. It is the common mistake of people that we
willingly wrap ourselves and our powers in mystery— that we wish to keep our
knowledge to ourselves, and of our own will refuse “ wantonly and deliberately “
to communicate it. The truth is that till the neophyte attains to the condition
necessary for that degree of Illumination to which, and for which, he is entitled
and fitted, most if not all of the Secrets are incommunicable. The receptivity
must be equal to the desire to instruct. The illumination must come from within.
Till then no hocus-pocus of incantations or mummery of appliances, no meta­
physical lectures or discussions, no self-imposed penance can give it. All these
are but means to an end, and all we can do is to direct the use of such means
as have been empirically found by the experience of ages to conduce to the
required object. And this was and has been no secret for thousands of years.
The Mahatma Letters, pp. 282-3.
1
ET us open our study this evening by reading an extract
from Volume I of The Secret Doctrine, page 567, as follows :
J As to the “ elemental atoms,” so called, the Occultists refer to
them by that name with a meaning analogous to that which
is given by the Hindu to Brahmfi when he calls him A n u , the “ A tom /'
Every elemental atom . . . is . . . a So u l ; not necessarily a disem­
bodied soul, but a jtv a , as the Hindus call it, a centre of P o t e n t ia l
V i t a l it y , with latent intelligence in it, and, in the case of compound
Souls—an intelligent active E x is t e n c e , from the highest to the lowest
order, a form composed of more or less differentiations.
Majestic, sublime, are the thoughts involved in the study which
we begin this evening. It ought to be said, perhaps, by way of
preface, that the frequent interruptions of our studies necessitated
by circumstances, have prevented us before from entering upon
this new departure in our studies ; and unless the Teacher, the
Outer Head, so instructs us explicitly, we shall not, except by
inference, embark upon our present line of thought more fully
than we shall do this evening, until she informs us that our studies
can be continued more definitely. And why ? Because from
immemorial time our School has set apart a certain portion of the
year, at certain specified times, of never less than three months, in
which the studies were pursued daily for hours at a time, with
intervals of rest; and these were called periods of initiation. The
reason for this method was that frequent interruptions, the inroad
321
322 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
or ingress into the thought of daily occupations, so distracted the
mind, so tore it away from the higher nature, that it could not
successfully meet and understand the things which it was then
supposed to undertake and to try to comprehend.
But doing the best we can, we shall begin this evening, very
shortly, to undertake a study of the atom, and of what H. P.
Blavatsky calls its “ adventures ” , by referring to collateral and
almost identical subjects : the laya-centers, the sun and planets
and comets, and the soul and the monad by contrast with the
above.
As we read in The Secret Doctrine this evening, an atom is a
soul. A soul is an entity which is evolved by experiences ; it is
not a spirit, it is a vehicle of the spirit. It manifests in matter
through and by being a substantial portion of the lower essence of
the spirit. Touching another plane below it, or it may be above
it, the point of union allowing ingress and egress to the conscious­
ness is a laya-center. A laya-center is, therefore, a center in
“ homogeneous ” substance. It will be remembered that in a
former study, we derived this word “ laya ” from the Sanskrit
word It, meaning to dissolve. The word “ Pralaya ” comes from
the same root, as follows : laya is the noun-form from the root li,
with a prepositional prefix pra, meaning towards, forwards, hence
continuous. In other words, “ pralaya ” means continuous
dissolution. A laya-center is that part of an entity, of an atom,
which, as said, being relatively homogeneous substance, matter
“ dissolved ” into homogeneity, allows ingress and egress for
passing consciousness and consciousnesses.
Let us take the laya-center as manifested in the sun. The sun
at its core is a laya-center. Each planet likewise has at its central
point, and is in its central point, a laya-center ; each comet is in
building around a laya-center, its heart or core. Dimensions or
positions in space have nothing to do with it, because a laya-
center is not of a physical and material nature. It is the dis­
appearing-point for all things below it, and the entering-point for
all things above it, for any one particular entity, be it an atom,
a sun, a planet, a human being.
The sun, as we see it, is a reflexion, as we have often before said.
Suppose that we call it a veil, which is perhaps a better word,
though reflexion is just as good, because it actually is a reflexion—
the sun we see, that is. What do we see when we look at the sun ?
We see a titanic splendor. That is a reflexion. The sun itself, its
core, could be held in the palm of your hand, and I mean the part
of the sun which is behind that splendorous reflexion. That part
which could be held in the palm of your hand is itself of the
seventh or highest stage of the lowest prakriti-stage, a particle of
matter-substance of the lowest cosmic grade, the prakriti. The
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y 323
splendor that we see is the aura of that laya-center, its aura or
emanations, and these emanations are forces. The sun is a body
of unimaginable forces springing from, pouring down through,
this laya-center, from the true sun which is behind the outer veil.
And the golden disk that we see is but the auric manifestation to
our physical eyes on this plane of the true sun, pouring through
the sun at the center of the visible orb.
So it is in a human being. There is a center in his nature
through which pour the forces from above, and through which
he himself ascends higher ; and that center is the laya-center of
his inner nature.
In speaking of the Monad, we must not confuse it with the
laya-center. A laya-center is the channel, the point, the dis­
appearing-point, the neutral center, in matter or substance,
through which consciousness passes— and the center of that
consciousness is the monad. For the present moment we need
not pause to consider on what plane the monad is acting ; on any
plane on which it may be acting when it passes from one plane of
consciousness to another it does so through a laya-center. It will
be remembered that in our last study or two we pointed out the
parallelisms running in nature, such as matter and spirit-
consciousness. Please remember that these words are used
generalizingly, not defining any particular matter or any par­
ticular spirit, but only to show, on the one hand, the mass of
kosmic substance acted upon by the great forces above it, who are
the beings of life, the hierarchies of universal nature ; and in this
kosmic body, in this kosmic substance, there are innumerable
laya-centers, because they are really the “ critical points ", the
translation-stages, by which as individuals we gain access to our
Higher Self, and by which the divine and spiritual forces entering
into us from above, pass. The sun is the vital focus of its system,
outside of other activities far greater still; but the physical sun is
that something which we can see with our physical eyes; and
further it is a thing of matter, although it is in the sixth degree of
our stage of Prakriti, counting upwards, the Buddhic stage of the
lowest prakriti. But the true sun, the spiritual sun, is that divine
being behind the sun, an entity, a god. The physical sun is its
body or garment. Just as in ourselves our Higher Nature is a
god, a divine spark, and that divine spark is a monad. The soul in
contradistinction with the monad, as pointed out in former
studies, is its vehicle for manifestation on any one plane. It
really means vehicle. The spirit manifests in seven vehicles, and
each one of these vehicles is a soul; and that particular point
through which the divine influence passes in the soul is the
laya-center, and it is, so to say, the heart of the soul, or rather the
summit thereof— homogeneous soul-substance, if you like.
324 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
It is very necessary to have these preliminary conceptions clear
and definitely outlined in our minds. The mysteries behind these
words are sublime, unimaginably beautiful; but we cannot
understand them properly without knowing the words which we
use, and how we use them, and the implications of thought which
are involved in them when we use them.
All the sectarian departures from the great foundation-
religions of antiquity have grown out of the lack of following
that one rule. Understand your terms and use them rightly.
Disputes have arisen about the meaning of terms, due perhaps to
the fact that in the origin of any particular religion, those terms
were not defined in such clever and appropriate manner that later
dogmatists could not fasten upon them in order to misuse them.
It is actually a most difficult problem. We are always between
the “ devil and the deep sea ” . On the one hand we have the
people who will insist upon literalisms, such as “ Pythagoras, the
Master, said so ” . A beautiful sense of loyalty to the Teacher in
some cases, perhaps ; but see how it can be misused by the would-
be dogmatists, who insist on taking the letter and losing the
spirit! And, on the other hand, there are those who think that the
letter has no importance, which is likewise wrong ; this class thinks
that they have the spirit and they try to force the letter to conform
to their conceptions of what the Master taught, or the Masters
taught, Pythagoras or any other.
So it is necessary that we have these and other similar words
clearly outlined in our minds. When we undertake the study of
the atom we embark upon new and vast fields of consciousness,
and pass in our minds over to other planes; and our only
salvation is, as H. P. Blavatsky has told us time and time again,
to cling like grim death to the fundamental principles of her
teachings which are the Masters’ teachings. We cannot so cling
unless we know exactly to what we should cling. If we were to say
that an atom is a god, we would say wrongly. If we were to say
that the atom contains a god, we should speak only partly rightly.
If we were to say that the atom manifests a god, we approach a
step nearer to the truth.
Now comes another thought. What do we mean by atom ? Do
we mean a kosmical atom, an astral atom, a psychical atom, a
Buddhic atom, an atmic atom ? Our studies of Theosophy show
us that all these atoms are variously “ souls ” , existent on divers
planes, in various degrees of consciousness ; and we realize then
that the atom in its essence, in its inmost of its inmost, is a monad,
a divine spark, a being from former manvantaras, which monad
has " learned its lessons ” so fully that it needs to learn nothing
more in this manvantara. But it is trailed by a train of skandhas,
resident in the life-atoms, and which are karmic impressions.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 325
These life-atoms are inferior beings, trailing after it, making up
its bodies, so to say, as certain elements make up our bodies,
beings for which it is responsible because it affected them in former
kalpas, former manvantaras, former life-cycles: responsible for
them because it has soiled them in some instances, and in other
instances it has cleansed them from the soil.
What are these inferior things that follow in the track of a
monad ? They are parts of its being, thoughts of its thought,
children of its soul, offspring of its heart. Sublime thought, in
which we have the secret of manifestation in the universe, and
also the secret of the Hierarchy of Compassion ; the secret why
one-half of nature is what we call matter, crystallized and so-called
inert; and why the other half of nature is will and consciousness,
intelligence and love, understanding and life. And these two
opposites work eternally together during the manvantaras. At
every moment in Space and Time, units of this train of inferior
things, themselves reach comprehension and understanding, and
pass through their particular laya-center into spheres above—
themselves having meanwhile developed or evolved other inferior
beings trailing after them.
The processes of kosmic life and evolution are outlined in what
has just been said. So that when we use H. P. Blavatsky’s
expression and speak of the " adventures of an atom ” , we obtain
some glimpse of the study now before us. Do you realize (I dare
say you do) that under the Teacher’s instruction, in the studies
which we have followed as faithfully as we have been able to do so,
there has been laid down the outline, at least the skeleton-frame­
work, of a system of philosophy entire and complete, so majestic
in its reaches, so wide in its subject, having such grandeur in its
possibilities, such profundity in its inmost nature, that nothing
like it is known in the exoteric literature of the world today ?
This we have accomplished. Even the magnificent systems of
exoteric philosophy of the Orient and the best efforts of European
philosophy— which, by the way, are mostly mere verbiage— cannot
compare with it. Their light is as a mere rushlight before the
blaze of the noonday sun, when we compare them with the
Esoteric System.
And why is this so ? Because we have outlined the teachings
of the gods, the teachings formerly taught in the ancient Mystery-
Schools. Nor have they been more than hinted at. We have not
said the one-thousandth part of what remains to be said, if it is
the will and the intention of the Teacher for us to develop these
noble themes. And mind you, what could be said in our studies
to come, is not, either in extent or in scope, what could be said, if
the Teacher so willed, in what we may call strictly esoteric
meetings. The Teacher has told us that these studies shall some
320 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
day go to other students of our School. We have been obliged, not
only by the Teacher's explicit orders, but by the voice of our
own conscience, to tell, to set forth, to bring together, these ancient
thoughts of the Mystery-Schools in such fashion that you who are
members can understand and follow them with comparative ease ;
and yet if the transcript of what is here said fell into the hands
of an outsider, he would merely read what might to him be an
interesting exposé of philosophical thought, and perhaps no more.
If the Teacher should so instruct us to speak on deeper themes—
and this is not for me to say— but if the Teacher should so will it
that we, or some of us, might undertake a study of what we might
call the life in the heart of our teachings, we should there find
keys of thought brilliantly illuminating our understanding.
Seven are the keys, our first Teacher has told us, which open
wide the portals of the Ancient Wisdom. These seven keys we
have touched but lightly, of necessity lightly, in our allusions to
the seven Treasuries of Wisdom. In one or another of these seven
Treasuries, or in one or another of these seven Jewels, lies every
department of human thought, every thought that human mind
can give birth to. These seven Treasuries were given and
explained to the ancient races by members of the Hierarchy of
Compassion, and by their pupils, and they have been passed down
to us. But remember that these seven Treasuries, as we have
already said very plainly, under the names they go by, are mere
key-words, catch-words, reminding-terms. Beautifully was it said
by one or more of our Comrades, at a former meeting— and it
showed at least that those Comrades had grasped the heart
of our thought— these sublime ideas make a man “ feel at home
in any part of the universe ". It warms one's heart to hear this,
because all of you who have heard and understood what the
Teacher has permitted us to study here together, will have felt
that this is the very keynote of Occultism, the being one with
the Universal Life, “ at home everywhere ". Occultism is the
exposition of the essence of life, of the essence of being, and of the
essence of living. Let us never confuse it with the so-called
“ occult arts ", arts which are strictly forbidden to us as students
of this School. The Brothers of the Shadow lead on their helpless
victims with the occult arts, enticing them thereby, and their end
is non-entity. But our Masters, our Teachers, have told us
plainly : first learn discipline, first learn the Law. Then the
powers which you may crave, you will crave only as spiritual
powers, and only to give yourself and them to others. In the
Path, our Path, the so-called “ occult arts " drop away even from
the imagination, because their deluding enticements and their
allurements are clearly seen. I do not imagine for a moment that
any one of us here needs to be reminded of this, but there are
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 327
other reasons for saying it, because, as has often been mentioned,
these studies shall go out to others who know perhaps less than
we do. They are our brothers and sisters in our divine mission, and
they need the help which we can give them, and it is our duty to
warn them.
Our present Teacher, perhaps even more than were the two
preceding ones, Has been insistent upon the necessity of first
learning the Law— and the learning of the Law means the
development of the spiritual nature ; and it is the royal road, the
royal union. Having it, you have everything in the universe;
boundless knowledge, for instance, and the powers commensurate
with it then will come naturally; but any attempt to cultivate
them prematurely, any mere longing for them, will pull you down
as surely as the sun will rise over the eastern horizon tomorrow
morning; because it is the personal coloring of the mind, it is
the personal wish, it is desire and appetite for power and novelty
that want these things. The divine-human entity, the Buddha,
the member of the Hierarchy of Compassion by divine right,
knows these things and wants them not, for he has passed far
beyond them. The constant urge with him is to go above matter,
to cleanse the heart from soil, to cast off the garments of the
mortal man and to put on the robes of immortality which, in fact,
inwardly are yours already, awaiting simply for each individual
to recognise them, and to become, as the ancient Egyptian
expressed it, a “ son of the Sun ” , a holy initiate.
CHAPTER X X IX
SPACE : THE BOUNDLESS ALL. INFILLED WITH INTERLOCKING,
INTERPENETRATING UNIVERSES. ONE ACTION, ONE HIER­
ARCHICAL INTELLIGENCE, ONE COURSE OF OPERATION
THROUGHOUT NATURE : ONE ORGANISM, ONE UNIVERSAL
LIFE.
Either an ordered universe, or else a welter of confusion. Assuredly then, a
world-order. Or think you that order subsisting within yourself is compatible
with disorder in the All ? And that too when all things, however distributed
and diffused, are affected sympathetically.
Marcus Aurelius Antoninus to Himself, IV, 27 (Rendall).
Constantly regard the universe as one living being, having one substance and
one soul; and observe how all things have reference to one perception, the
perception of this one living being ; and how all things act with one movement;
and how all things are the co-operating causes of all things which exist; observe
too the continuous spinning of the thread and contexture of the web.
Ibid., IV, 40 (Long).
I
N continuing our study this evening, the Teacher asks me
once more to introduce our subject by calling attention to
the fact that the teachings of Occultism are based on a
foundation of ethics and morals ; and, as has so often been
said, there is the distinction which marks the division-line, as it
were, between the Hierarchies on the one side, the ascending, or
Luminous Arc, and those Hierarchies on the other side, the
Shadowy Arc, or those beings and intelligences which are descend­
ing into matter for the experience needed in order to enable them
to take their march on the upward rise. Morals and ethics lie at
the basis of our own Order.
Ethics is not a subject which is disputable, as between men ;
only the forms of ethics are ; but the fundamental principles of
right as contrasted with wrong, of duty as contrasted with selfish­
ness, of the joy of renunciation and self-abnegation, as contrasted
with the shrivelling influence of the opposite theories of being—
and there are many in the world— in these lies the distinction
between the Sons of Light and the Children of the Shadow.
It will be remembered that our subject in closing our last series
of studies was the inauguration of an exposition, as best we could
set it forth, of the teachings imbodied in the word " atom Mark
first, please, that this does not mean the atom of science. The
" atom of science ” is a more or less clear conception of funda­
mental material particles which has arisen in the minds of
scientists in an attempt to explain the phenomena of physical
328
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 329
nature as those phenomena have been studied during the last
hundred years or so ; and the scientific doctrines concerning the
atom are based, furthermore, largely on misunderstood teachings
of certain Greek philosophers.
But if we understand the atom as the doctrine concerning it is
imbodied in the teachings of the Ancient Wisdom, we shall find
that it is an intelligence and a living being of its kind. Let us then
open our studies this evening by reading from The Secret Doctrine,
Volume I, pages 107 and 106 ; from page 107 first:
. . . every atom in the Universe has the potentiality of self-con­
sciousness in it, and is, like the Monads of Leibnitz, a Universe in itself
and for itself. It is an atom and an angel.
Not a Christian angel; not a being with wings, etc., but a
spiritual intelligence. Then from page 106 :
The doctrine teaches that, in order to become a divine, fully conscious
god,— aye, even the highest— the Spiritual primeval In t e l l ig e n c e s
must pass through the human stage. And when we say human, this
does not apply merely to our terrestrial humanity, but to the mortals
that inhabit any world, i.e., to those Intelligences that have reached
the appropriate equilibrium between matter and spirit, as wehave now,
since the middle point of the Fourth Root-Race of the Fourth Round
was passed. Each Entity must have won for itself the right of becoming
divine, through self-experience.
These words " self-experience ” comprise the thought which our
present Teacher so frequently emphasises in her instructions to
us— self-directed evolution, a doctrine imbodying the necessity of
using our spiritual will and our spiritual intelligence for noble and
altruistic and impersonal aims. Let us say here again that for
man there is always a choice of paths: the right-hand, the
Luminous Arc, upward and upward for ever ; and the left-hand,
the Shadowy Arc, leading down into those spheres concerning
which we have knowledge, of course, and of which we have already
several times spoken in these our present meetings, but of which
the Teacher has not as yet allowed us to say very much in our
present exposition. That permission may come some day.
Further explaining our present study, be it noted that this term
or word “ atom ” is really a " catch-word ” . We say “ atom ” ,
but we actually mean a multitude of thoughts connected with
cosmogony and evolution. For instance, Gods, Monads, Souls,
Atoms, are words jointly and separately involved in profound
doctrines explaining cosmogonical and evolutionary processes.
And connected therewith very closely is what is called in Occultism
the " laya-center ” , to which we have briefly alluded in former
studies. In Part III of this volume of The Secret Doctrine, H. P.
330 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
Blavatsky, in section 15, devotes one of the most beautiful parts
of her great work to developing the doctrines comprised in what
she called “ Gods, Monads, and Atoms
Please understand first, that in these studies, questions of
spirituality, ethics, religion, are deeply involved. They go to the
very foundation of our being. They are not mere questions of
brain-mind disputation, nor mere mental exercises in clever speak­
ing. These teachings lead directly to the setting of our feet on the
path of the Luminous Arc ; and we who belong to this Order, and
have had the benefit already of three Teachers teaching the same
doctrine, should have some realization, at least, that if there is one
primal aim and object towards which we look, it is to become more
fully, more heartfeltly, one with that glorious army of which our
own Masters are the outer vanguard, as it were, and of which our
present Teacher is their representative to us.
Now what do we mean by Space ? Look into the dictionary and
you will find the following definition, probably : " The general
receptacle of things This is a definition of Space which we
reject. Scholars talk about “ infinite space ” , and yet call Space
a ” receptacle ”— a curious commentary upon the loose thinking
of our age. Obviously, if it is a receptacle it is a finite thing : and
besides that, the definition entirely misses the heart-meaning of
the word Space. Understand what we mean by Space, and we
have a key by which to open much of the nobler teachings hid
deeply in the elementary studies. Space, as understood in our own
school of true Occultism, means that all that is is a fullness, perfect
and continuous absolutely, endless and beginningless ; not a mere
receptacle, not a mere container, nothing finite ; but the Bound­
less All. Further, Space Is ; it is not merely on or in one plane,
but on and in seven planes, the seven kosmic planes of our Uni­
verse, besides penetrating inwards infinitely, endlessly ; and also
outwardly endlessly. It is the infinite Pleroma of the Greeks, the
Greek word Pleroma meaning Fullness.
Now, obviously, everything that is, is a part of Space. Space
not being a mere container, an abstraction of the mind, or a mere
receptacle, shows why H. P. Blavatsky in her teachings speaks of
the only “ God ” we recognise as That— using the word of the old
Vedas— i.e., Space, the Boundless All. This All obviously con­
tains all things, everything that is ; as shown before in our study
of that wonderful doctrine of Hierarchies, which is the third of the
seven “ Jewels ” or “ Treasuries ” of Wisdom, which we have
briefly studied before. Space is infilled with an infinite multitude
of self-contained universes, interlocking and interpenetrating each
other. These universes, again, are themselves infilled with end­
lessly multitudinous beings of all and various kinds, the high and
the low, the inner and the outer. We cannot say " the highest ”
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 331
and “ the lowest ” , because that form of expression would imply ^
limits or bounds, frontiers, and Space is limitless. Only within the*
confines or boundaries of any one universe or Hierarchy may we
use the superlative form of these adjectives, and say the highest or
the lowest.
Now, take any one universe or Hierarchy as an instance of the
general rule. Any universe is infilled with beings finding their
origin and taking their rise in the Summit, the Acme, the Seed in
another sense, which is, so to say, the god of that Hierarchy ; and
this god, at the beginning of any period of manifestation, this
spiritual, elementary Being, casts off from itself, or throws forth
from itself, evolves from itself, brings out from itself, a multi­
tudinous series of hierarchies consisting of less or inferior beings ;
beings less in spirituality and dignity than itself. They are, as it
were, the thoughts that the God or “ Kosmic Primal Thinker ”
thinks. Take the instance of a thinking human being, as an
analogy. He thinks thoughts. Each thought has its own life, each
thought has its own essence, each has its own course to run. Each
thought is based on a particular vibration, as it were, using words
common to our understanding to-day. Each has its own particular
swabhava or intrinsic essential nature, which is its individuality.
So this Summit of the Hierarchy “ thinks thoughts Now
I do not mean to say that this Summit is a human being or a god­
being, which thinks thoughts as we do. The figure here used is
an analogy only. As a man thinks thoughts, and thus fills his
atmosphere around him with these living beings, these winged
messengers called thoughts, so the Primordial Elementary Being,
the Summit, the Seed, the First to issue forth from the bosom of
the infinite Mother, casts forth from itself these parts of itself;
these monadic aggregations, these kosmic " thoughts ” .
And what are these first emanations ? They are what the
Ancient Wisdom called the gods. And these gods in their turn
send forth from themselves other multitudinous series of beings,
less than they— less in dignity, less in grandeur, less in under­
standing. And these secondary emanations or evolutions are the
monads. And these monads, as they pursue their way down the
Shadowy Arc, in the beginning of a manvantara, in their turn cast
forth from themselves, in identically the same way and on the
same line of action, other entities, less than they, forming still
more outward Hierarchies, more material intelligences ; and these
tertiary emanations are the souls. And the souls, as they pursue
their way down, exactly as their higher progenitors did, cast forth
from themselves, think forth from themselves, send forth from
themselves, evolve forth from themselves, beings still less in
wisdom and spirituality and dignity and power than they. And
these are the atoms— but not the physical atom. Let us cast that
332 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
idea out of our minds instantly. The atoms of physical science are
really molecular aggregations of atomic elements only, existing on
the borderland of the astral plane.
The time will come when we shall set forth more clearly than we
have time to do tonight, the relation of the atom to the phe­
nomenal physical world. What we need to do this evening in the
introductory study now in hand, is to show one action, one
Hierarchical Intelligence, one course of operation, throughout
Nature. Please remember that these operations ofNature are what
the scientists and Christian theologians, in their ignorance, call
the “ laws of Nature ” . Now there are no “ laws of Nature ” , as
we have set forth and explained before. There are no mechani­
cally acting “ laws ” , so-called, because there are no law-givers :
consequently there are no such “ natural laws” . But there are
operations of Nature, and these operations of Nature are what our
thinkers see, and from lack of understanding the Ancient Wisdom,
and perhaps from lack of properly descriptive words, they follow
the analogy of human operations, and say the “ laws of Nature ” .
But they are the spiritually automatic operations of Beings in
that vast aggregate of entities and intelligences, which is called the
Universe, which is but one of infinite multitudes of others in Space.
All that is, is one vast organism. There is no void and no empti­
ness anywhere— all is infilled and is one boundless fullness. If we
can fix that thought in our minds, and think of ourselves as linked
in a chain of beings, an endless chain— what Homer called the
" golden chain ” — we shall realize the force, the philosophical pro­
fundity, and the deep meaning of what our teachings set forth
when they speak of “ Universal Brotherhood ”— the fundamental
unity of all that is. Every one of us has in himself the potentiality
of becoming a god, and of advancing from godhood still higher
into what is now to us inexpressible spheres of divinity. But it
depends upon ourselves. At each instant the choice lies before us :
the path to the “ right hand ” , and the path to the “ left hand ” ,
adopting the old Buddhist nomenclature.
These two arcs, the Shadowy Arc, the Arc of Matter ; and the
Luminous Arc, or the Arc of Light, or of Spirit, exemplify in those
two phrases the duality of nature in manifestation; and the beings
on the Luminous Arc are what our own Teachers call the Dhyani-
Buddhas, the Buddhas of Contemplation, those who once in long
past kalpas were men as we are now, human beings. The other
Arc contains the hierarchies which are “ descending into matter ”
in order to learn the lessons that we of this kalpa have learned
in the past; as the Dhyani-Buddhas, the Sons of Light, did, long,
long aeons agone, but who now are the Summit of the Buddhic
Hierarchy of which we in this Order at present form a part, if our
hearts are sincere and our souls are strong.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 333
The beauty and the splendor of these teachings fill the soul with
awe. It needs but the proper comprehension of them, so firmly to
fix the mind and the soul to the eternal Truth that nothing will
ever shake them in future. Ay, if we can but see, there lies un­
folded the Great Mystery of evolution. Those who have advanced
along the path have left their records behind them ; and there
they stand, those glorious entities, armies of them; the lowest are
those just beyond us, the chelas, and then higher still are the
Masters, and the Masters of the Masters ; and then the Chohans ;
and the Maha-Chohans ; and then the Dhyani-Chohans ; and then
the Dhy&ni-Buddhas; and thus endlessly, on and up ; for infinity
is limitless and endless. And this process of hierarchical develop­
ment has been going on from eternity in the past, and will con­
tinue into eternity in the future.
The reason why men, perhaps some even of our own Order, find
it difficult to accept this sublime teaching is the fact that their
minds are so full of other thoughts that it is difficult for them to
drive in and find place and fix in their memory these sublime
truths. Men will not willingly give up their prejudices; they
break not willingly their mind-molds. How many of us, as the
Teacher has told me, how many of us come to a meeting like this,
with minds made up on what we “ know to be the truth ” , be­
cause, forsooth, we have so read it somewhere, and our minds are
crystallized in that setting. I speak of no one in particular ; my
mind is running back into memories of the past and of other
Comrades with whom I have spoken. I know what they felt; and
I know how difficult it is for each one of us, for every one of us, to
keep the mind always free and plastic, always ready to accept the
truth, no matter what our own prejudices, religious, philosophic,
or scientific, may be. I have seen those Comrades come into a
meeting in a critical spirit, forgetting that the critic is not the wise
man. The critic unconsciously to himself sees his own littleness;
the wise man, the man who knows, will say rather " I will think,
I will examine this that the Teacher has given me, or allows me to
hear. This is an opportunity; I will not reject it because it seems
difficult for me to believe, or because I have read that H. P.
Blavatsky at such a passage said so and so ” . Remember what
the present speaker was authorized to say at some former meet­
ing : pray do not take any one passage of H. P. Blavatsky’s or
Katherine Tingley’s or William Q. Judge’s, and build an iron wall
of prejudice about it, because you think you have understood it.
Keep the mind fluid and open and plastic ; hold fast to that which
your soul, your conscience, tells you is good ; and, if necessary,
wait l Thebes was not builded in a day ; and in our Sublime Work,
the noblest that ever man had to do, we, the true " Masons of the
Ancient Order ” if there ever was one, are building the " Guardian
334 FUNDAMENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Wall We cannot afford to fail through prejudices, our own
prejudices. Look within, know yourselves. If you fail within the
ranks, the work is not merely harder for those who remain, and
doubly hard for the Teacher; but there is the loss to ourselves,
to each one of us.
I could tell you stories, if it were permissible— and it is not— of
my own experiences, of my own life, that of the present speaker
who is here but an impersonal voice ; but I cannot do this : it
would be importing into this meeting something which I am not
authorized to do ; and I merely bring it to your attention in order
to show you that I at least for one realize that the Teacher was
wise in asking this voice to bring it to your attention and for your
consideration. Keep then your minds open : hold to that which
is good ; wait, and trust.
Before concluding, there is one thing to which the Teacher asks
me to devote three minutes; it is a question which must have
arisen in every thoughtful theosophical mind, and it has been
thusly phrased by a Comrade: " I f every one is under the
guidance of the Dhyani-Chohans, how does it happen that, as
H. P. Blavatsky says in The Secret Doctrine, Volume I, page 412,
end of the second paragraph, ‘ cruelty, blunders, and but too-
evident injustice ’, are to be found in Nature ? And H. P.
Blavatsky quotes the saying that Nature is a ‘ comely mother
but stone cold ’
This question involves more than could properly be answered
in three minutes, but the principles upon which this thoughtful
question has been based are very simple indeed. In the first place,
the Dhyani-Chohans do not " guide Nature ” ; not any more than
man’s inner Dhyani-Chohan guides the circulation of his blood, or
the processes of his own digestion. Those things belong to the
lower spheres of Nature. There is a Dhyani-Chohan at the head
of every department of Nature ; but direct interference, the old
theological idea of an Almighty God interfering with the mess he
has himself created, is not accepted in our teachings. The Dhyani-
Chohans do not “ guide ” the material processes of Nature. They
are the summit of the Hierarchy and form the " laws ” according
to which Nature works; but every entity, every monad, every
atom, every soul, has the power of free will and choice, in more or
less limited degree, depending upon its intelligence, and must
exercise it or go down. And there is the key, the answer to the
question. Man does not control by his thought the beating of his
heart or the processes of his digestion, or the time it takes him to
grow from babyhood to youth, from youth to manhood, and from
manhood to sink into decrepitude. Those things are ruled by what
are properly called the " nature-forces ” ; and the “ laws ” upon
which the nature-forces work, are those superior operations which
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 335
represent the automatic spiritual activities of the Dhy&ni-Chohans;
but to say that they " guide ” Nature is untrue ; the idea is a relic
of the old theological Christian dogmas, which remains in our
minds ; and we must wash our intellects clean of such thoughts if
we wish to understand the heart, the essence, of the ancient teach­
ings, which show one organism, one universal life, in diversified
action everywhere! And in this one organism, in this one beating
heart, in this one universal life, there are these multitudinous and
countless and endless and infinite series of intelligences, each
working out its own destiny from inward impulses, controlled by
various higher entities in which they " move, and live, and have
their being
CHAPTER XXX
THE INTERRELATION OF GODS, MONADS, ATOMS— A KEY TO
THE DOCTRINE OF EVOLUTION. SUCCESSIVE EMANATIONS :
SHEATHS. HIGHER BEINGS EMANATING AND CLOTHING THEM­
SELVES IN HOSTS OF LOWER BEINGS. MORALITY BASED ON
THE STRUCTURE OF THE UNIVERSE.
But the other medium, which is suspended from the Gods, though it is far
inferior to them, is that of daemons, which is not of a primarily operative nature,
but is subservient to, and follows the beneficent will of the Gods. It likewise
unfolds into energy the invisible good of the Gods, being itself assimilated to it,
and gives completion to its fabrications conformably to it. For it renders that
which is ineffable in the good of the Gods effable, illuminates that which is
formless in forms, and produces into visible reasons (or productive forms) that
which in divine good is above all reason. Receiving also a connascent participa­
tion of things beautiful, it imparts and transfers it, in unenvying abundance,
to the genera posterior to itself. These middle genera, therefore, give completion
to the common bond of the Gods and souls, and cause the connexion of them to
be indissoluble. They also bind together the one continuity of things from on
high as far as to the end ; make the communion of wholes to be inseparable ;
cause all things to have the best, and a commensurate mixture ; in a certain
respect, equally transmit the progression from more excellent to inferior natures,
and the elevation from things posterior to such as are prior ; insert in more
imperfect beings order and measures of the communication which descends from
more excellent natures, and of that by which it is received ; and make all things
to be familiar and coadapted to all, supernally receiving the causes of all these
from the Gods.
Iamblichus on The Mysteries, pp. 32-33.
T
O “ keep alive in man his spiritual intuitions ", describes
very well the work of the Theosophical Society in the
outside world, and also in our own holy Order here.
But beyond that fine thought we must go if we are to
understand and fully to put the teachings, which have been given
us in trust, into our lives, and thereby to develop the moral, the
ethical, sense which these teachings are first and foremost meant
to develop and to make living in us, if we are to carry out the
purpose and aim set before us by those who have brought us
together into this Order.
Our present Teacher time and again has insisted upon the fact
that mere disquisitions on philosophic, religious, and scientific
subjects, impart nothing of permanent worth, are fruitless, bear
no fruit, unless the spirit of the Lodge is behind them ; and that
Lodge-spirit cannot exist without the spiritual intuitions which
exist in the core, in the central part, of every human being. You
will notice that the entire tendency of our studies has been to
develop the higher nature of us ; and you know that these studies
have been strictly laid down for us first by H. P. Blavatsky, as
336
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 337
she derived them from her Teachers, and as carried on thereafter
by William Quan Judge, and now by our own present beloved
Teacher.
These teachings of the Esoteric Philosophy, now being given to
the students of this Body, have stood, and will stand the test of
time and of the human heart. Here is a fact, surely, for which we
may give heartfelt thanks : that here among us at least is pre­
served the ancient Wisdom in its purity, and that not one of us
would fail to risk his life, and that which he holds dearest, in order
to preserve them pure and undefiled.
Now, this evening we are approaching the end of the elementary
studies which we have been briefly considering for the last two or
three years ; and soon it will be our duty to take up more concrete
aspects of the ancient Wisdom, or Wisdom-Religion ; and, in fact,
we have already approached these more detailed doctrines in our
present subject—gods, monads, souls, atoms, and bodies. The
necessity for a clear understanding of those former studies, which
to some may appear somewhat abstract, is this : their reach into
the realms of human thought as represented by religion, philo­
sophy, and science, is immense; they form, as it were, the
foundation-stones upon which the ancient Wisdom rests.
It will be remembered at our last study in The Secret Doctrine,
Volume I, page 107, we read the following : " . . . every atom in
the universe has the potentiality of self-consciousness in it, and is,
like the Monads of Leibnitz, a Universe in itself, and for itself. It
is an atom and an angel ”— that is, a spiritual being. Let us give
our utmost attention to what our Teacher has authorized the say­
ing of, this evening. We are going to speak more plainly on this
present subject than we have ever spoken before, although these
matters have been alluded to frequently; and the reason for it,
at least one reason for it, is that the proper understanding of the
doctrine of Evolution— of development and growth— rests upon a
correct vision of the real meaning and interrelation of these three :
gods, monads, and atoms.
First, it will be remembered that in speaking of Space, we
rejected the idea that Space was merely a container. Now this is
not a mere abstraction of thought; it is an absolutely important
thing to understand that all Being is one immense organism,
through which beats one Universal Heart, so to say. You see
there immediately the basis of morals ; there is no absolute empti­
ness, no absolute vacuum, anywhere ; all beings are closely related
and interchained in the strongest bonds of union: spiritual,
divine, intellectual, mental, astral, physical. Nothing can exist
without all other things; for the Kosmos, deprived of a single
atom, would crumble into impalpable dust. No metaphor this;
it is an actuality.
338 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Now a monad is often spoken of as “ descending ” into matter.
This is a fashion of speaking, a method of speech, as once pointed
out before. The monad itself does not " descend ” , no more than
does a god drive our streetcars or blacken our boots. How, then,
does the monadic influence extend itself throughout the different
planes of Nature, so that in ordinary parlance, it is in fact correct
to speak of the “ mineral monad ” , of the “ afiimal monad ” , of
the " astral monad ” , of the " human monad ” , of the “ spiritual
monad ” , of the ” divine monad ” ? In the following way : But
first— as an interpolation— concerning the monad, let me read
something that H. P. Blavatsky says {The Secret Doctrine,
Vol. II, pages 185-6):
The terms " mineral,” " vegetable ” and " animal ” monad are meant
to create a superficial distinction : there is no such thing as a Monad
(jiva) other than divine, and consequently having been, or having
to become, human. And the latter term has to remain meaningless
unless the difference is well understood. The Monad is a drop out of
the shoreless Ocean beyond, or, to be correct, within the plane of prime­
val differentiation. It is divine in its higher and human in its lower
condition—the adjectives " higher ” and “ lower ” being used for lack
of better words—and a monad it remains at all times, save in the
Nirv&nic state, under whatever conditions, or whatever external forms.
There you have the matter unequivocally stated.
It was pointed out at our last meeting that when the thrill of
life in the Boundless All first occurs in cyclical duration, the pri­
mordial beings issue forth as what are called the " gods ” , and
that these gods, as the ages passed, during the progressive man-
vantaric periods, sent forth from themselves, or cast forth from
themselves, or cast out from themselves, or gave birth to, less
beings, less meaning inferior, of less divinity, or less sublimity, less
grandeur ; and these beings are the monads. In exactly the same
way the monads sent forth from themselves (or gave birth from
themselves to) the souls; and, please understand, just as the
monad was in the god, so was the soul in the monad. These
entities remained latent in the monads as karmic fruitage from the
previous maha-manvantara. Just as the life remains in the seed
when cast forth from the plant, and sends forth its green blade in
the spring-time ; so, when the manvantaric thrill passes over these
spaces, after the long pralayic rest, the gods send forth the monads,
and the monads send forth the souls, and the souls send forth the
atoms. And the atoms similarly send forth from themselves our
vehicles, our bearers, our bodies.
Let us see if we can illustrate this by a diagram. Let us take an
immense circle to represent the Boundless All, which of course is
merely a representation for Space; then place a point in its
center. This point represents the first germ of the kosmic life.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 339
This point also has its meaning in the sense of a kosmic seed. Now
it is not one point only in the Kosmos that springs into activity,
but innumerable such points, such seeds. The number is limitless,
practically; and each one of such points
represents an individuality from the previous
maha-manvantara. But these points as
represented in the diagram are symbols;
and the one stands diagrammatically for all.
If you please, this point in the quasi-infini­
tude of a hierarchy, of a universe, is the
beginning of that hierarchy, and it represents
the god of that hierarchy. This god
itself is a synthetic aggregation of multitudinous other gods, as
man’s body is an aggregation, a synthesis, of multitudinous less
or inferior lives.
Now this god clothes itself in its emanations, in its pranic aura,
if you like ; it sends forth from itself pranic or vital effluvia, and
thus it clothes itself in garments, in sheaths of vitality, flowing
forth from itself, and these sheaths or garments are its “ clothing ” .
Any such god naturally casts its own individuality into its sheath,
into its clothing : seven degrees or states of i t ; its individuality
is its Swabhava, which we have studied before, an important idea
to which we have drawn your attention, and on which we have
laid emphasis. The swabhava of an entity is its individuality, the
characteristic of it, the essentiality of what it is, as contrasted with
some other swabhava. In ordinary language we may call it
“ individuality ” . That which makes a rose bring forth always a
rose, and not a lily ; that which makes a man bring forth always
a man and not some other sort of entity ; that which makes a god
a god and not a monad, is its swabhava. This is a Sanskrit com­
pound meaning self-generation, self-pouring out, the pouring out of
that which is within, and, therefore derivatively its individual and
own characteristic. Please remember in this connexion that
always more within, infinitely, boundlessly, more within, are the
vast states of consciousness living on the equally vast fields of the
spaces of Space ; the possibilities to be evolved in a man’s evolu­
tion, and the eternities through which he has passed, and the lives
which he has lived through in the past, are endless.
But passing on. This god sends forth its sheaths, and these
sheaths consist of less (or inferior) beings. If the god is a pri­
mordial entity let us call these latter primal. As man clothes
himself in physical flesh, so the god clothes itself in a garment or
body, and this garment or body is composed, if you like, of atoms
divine. Now these divine atoms are the monads. Compared with
the god they are the mere clothing of it, just as the synthesis, the
aggregation, of physical lives which compose a man’s body and
340 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
which form his.physical “ coat of skin ” or clothing, are, as it were,
the physical monads or the atoms, of the man himself. Similarly,
let us, then, advance a point farther. The germ, the seed, the
point above mentioned let us now call a monad— one of the almost
infinite number of monads in each god, forming the clothing of
each god, the sheaths, the garments of light, that in which a god
lives, which it has sent forth from itself, its outpouring of indi­
vidual life.
Similarly acts the monad as did its father-god ; and its sheath
and its clothing are the souls, as yet latent, most of them, but some
forming the more active part in which it manifests at any one
particular time. The same course of action occurs with the soul.
The soul clothes itself in atoms, the emanations from itself and the
outpouring of its own vitality, its own prana. And then the atoms
pour forth from themselves the effluvium of physical-astral life,
and these vital effluvia form the physical body of man, his astral
body and his physical body.
So you see just what our first great Teacher means by saying that
an atom is an “ atom and an angel ” or a soul. Through all these
hosts of beings streams the flow of the Self, entering into every
one, forming in fact the very root of its being, not however the
personalized entity or the ego, but the impersonal Self, that which
is the same in you and in me ; the same in the inhabitants of dis­
tant stellar spaces, as it is in us : the one Self, limitless, boundless,
the ideation of selfhood. Remember that the ego is the sense of
" I am I ” , not " you ” ; and here immediately the conception of
personality enters in. But, as our Teachers have told us, it is in
raising the personality into impersonality, the ego into divinity,
the corruptible into the Incorruptible, that consists the whole
effort and purpose and aim of the divine part of evolution ; and
that divine part, that particular activity, is that of the higher
range of the Luminous Arc, of the Buddhic Hierarchy, of which
the summit are the Dhy&ni-Buddhas, the Buddhas of Contem­
plation ; and the material on which they work is these other
monads, souls, atoms, which form the matter-side of nature,
called the Shadowy Arc.
You will remember that all these things have been alluded to
by us before ; but tonight remember this one important point,
that the monad does not " descend into matter ” . It casts forth
from itself its life, as the sun pours forth its vitality in rays ; and
its life manifests first as a monadic entity of inferior grade, as
a soul; and the soul in its turn pours forth its vitality, manifesting
in almost innumerable atoms. The monad itself is but one of
innumerable others, emanated, cast forth, breathed forth, if you
like to usean oriental metaphor, from BrahmA, the god, the summit
of our Hierarchy.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 341
As said, these garments or sheaths of light are those monadic
entities which must, during the course of evolutionary progress,
become denser, darker, thickened, with the passage of time, until
the ultimate result is the last energy, the last expenditure of the
divine or monadic force as manifested in the physical body.
When equilibrium between matter and spirit is finally reached,
when the lowest point in that kalpa, i.e., in that Day of BrahmS,
in that period of seven Rounds, has been reached, then step in
upon the scene the Manasaputras, the “ Sons of Mind ” , entities
from the Buddhic Hierarchy, from the Luminous Arc of evolving
Nature, those who had been men before in former kalpas, and
who have watched over us, under the guidance of the Silent
Watcher, their supreme Head, ever since our present kalpa or
manvantara began, aeons ago.
The monad, in one sense, may be called the active god of the
Hierarchy ; or, in man’s especial case, man’s divine Ego, sheathed
in its garments of light composed of inferior monadic entities
called souls : and the soul may be called an inferior monad, part
of the sheaths or the garments of the monad proper. These
respective garments are cast forth, somewhat as the tree puts
forth its leaves, its branches, its stems, its fruits. Similarly the
atoms are bom from the pranic or vital essence of the souls, and
they form our bodies. So we see that every man, in his inmost
essence— that is, inmost for the Hierarchy to which he belongs—
is a divine being, a god ; and his spiritual nature is the monad ;
and his soul-nature is the ego, that particular entity hovering
between the pit and the sun, which must be raised from personality
into impersonality, from corruptibility into Incorruptibility;
because in the soul resides that particular part of the psycho­
logical processes of intellection, which makes a man self-conscious,
a s<?//-conscious being, capable of the ideation of individualized
being.
Oh, what wonderful thoughts are these 1 How they do uplift
the soul! Man feels his native divinity, his interior spiritual
strength; he feels the power of divinity within his own heart,
the power for goodness and truth. And how small, how in­
significant, how unworthy, seem those things that lie apart from
the path of duty, of right I
How many have been hungry for truth, and have searched for
it, and yet have found only the husks of a pseudo-esotericism ?
But they also should have it. Human beings, they have a right
to i t ; but they are not going to get it unless they “ work for it ” ,
the Teacher calls out to me to say, for such is the archaic Law of
our Holy Order. The case is exactly as was pointed out in'a
former one of our study-meetings in this group : these teachings
have formed the reward, the reward of those who have been
342 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
faithful. It is delightful to a speaker to look into the faces of our
Comrades here, and see the quick flash of intelligence and of
understanding that illumines those faces when such or another
point has been reached, in our study. It is more than gratifying ;
and it must be for our present Teacher encouraging beyond words
to express, that it is so. For, surely, her life of self-sacrifice and
labor, unremitting and unchanging, has in this its own fine
reward.
I have but three minutes more for speaking, this evening, and I
must soon close our study tonight. But there is one subject
which for certain reasons must now be touched upon briefly.
It is a subject which has been deliberately avoided by me hitherto
for obvious reasons ; I refer to the matter of sex. Such a matter
would be intolerable, such thoughts would be intolerable, in a
meeting of this kind, unless the purpose were absolutely right and
ourstudydemandedits consideration. At ourpresent stage of study,
it is necessary then to point out this fact, that man, at a certain
former period of his evolution, was without sex, was sexless, and
also that in the next coming Root-Race, the Sixth Root-Race, he
will be without sex as we now understand it. Sex is but a passing
phase in evolutionary development, and has no more value in
one sense, to man, than an evil dream has to a man under certain
conditions. Nature has followed that line, as it were, under
protest, through the evil doing involved in our past karma, as the
only way by which souls can find incarnation at present; but as
the race grows in spiritual strength and in spiritual knowledge,
and looks with closer self-analysis into its own inner being,
children will come into the world without fathers; and from
being at first an unheard of, and presumably to be called a portent
or a prodigy when it first appears, this procedure of generation
will become the natural course of things in the Sixth Root-Race.
Our present sexually separated men and women, the present
method of generation of human beings, of animals, and of some
plants, will, in those far distant times of the future, be looked upon
very much as we now look upon the procreative acts of the beasts.
In conclusion : you have heard of the Ancient Mysteries, and
of the doctrine of the “ virginal birth ” , as was pointed out in a
former meeting here. After the fourth degree of initiation, or
rather beginning with the fourth degree or stage of initiation,
the future was outlined in the Ancient Mysteries to the candidate
both by teaching and more especially by causing the candidate to
pass through himself what was to come to pass in the future ages
of racial development; that is to say the initiant had to go
through, to live through, what the race was to live through for
the next two Root-Races. Previous to the fourth degree, he was
taught what the race had already been through, with allusions
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 343
to the future. When we read, therefore, of the " virgin birth ” of
Christ, for instance, it is true that this has its religious explana­
tion, its philosophical explanation, its mystical explanation, etc.,
etc. ; but it has also its physiological explanation. You will re­
member what H. P. Blavatsky says about the seven keys which
belong to and open each one of these inmost sevenfold mysteries;
of which two werg held as particularly secret: the physiological,
and the spiritual. The physiological key to this aspect of the
mystery-teaching was, as said, that the initiant had to symbolize
in his person and had to pass through, or live through what was
coming; and he was therefore said, in view of the future racial
action along the lines of generation, to have been " born from a
virgin M
. Obviously, I cannot say more here about this subject;
I merely point to it, and cease.
It is a comforting thing, especially in the present stage of the
world when humanity is doing its best to throw off the evil
shackles of Atlantean and Lemurian sin (if we may use this word),
t.e., to throw off the horrible karma which holds the world in its
evil grip, to know the causes which brought it to be. This gives
us knowledge and power to stem this evil stream of human sin
and misery. And, finally, those who will not accept the truth and
work with the Law, certainly, as Jesus might have said, will not
“ sit at my table with me when I partake of the wine of the
spirit in the House of my Father” . 4
'Those who have ears to
hear and to understand, let them hear ”— and be wise I
CHAPTER XXXI
THE BUILDING OF THE KOSMOS. THE SAME FUNDAMENTAL LAW
THROUGHOUT LIFE AND BEING : AN ENDLESS LADDER OF
PROGRESS. ANALOGICAL PROCESSES OF KOSMICAL AND PSYCHO­
LOGICAL DEVELOPMENT. THE RIVER OF LIFE,
And by the circulations of the soul being merged in a profound river and
impetuously borne along, we must understand by the river, not the human body
alone, but the whole of generation (with which we are externally surrounded)
through its swift and unstable flowing. For thus, says Proclus, Plato in the
Republic calls the whole of generated nature the river of Lethe, which contains
both Lethe and the meadow of Ate, according to Empedocles; the devouring
jaws of matter and the light-hating world, as it is called by the gods ; and the
winding rivers under which many are drawn down, as the oracles assert. But
by the circulations of the soul the cogitative and opiniative powers are signified ;
the former of which, through the soul’s conjunction with the body, is impeded
in its energies, and the latter is Titanically torn in pieces under the irrational life.
Introduction to Plato’s The Timceus, pp. 424-425 (Taylor).
In consequence of a reasoning process, therefore, he found that among the
things naturally visible, there was nothing the whole of which if void of intelli­
gence could ever become more beautiful than the whole of that which is endued
with intellect: and at the same time he discovered, that it was impossible for
intellect to accede to any being, without the intervention of soul. Hence, as
the result of this reasoning, placing intellect in soul and soul in body, he fabricated
the universe ; that thus it might be a work naturally the most beautiful and the
best. In this manner, therefore, according to an assimilative reason, it is neces­
sary to call the world [or universe] an animal, endued with intellect, and generated
through the providence of divinity.
Plato’s The Timaus, pp. 457-458 (Taylor).
I
N explanation of what was said in the final part of our
meeting last week, it is certainly advisable to extend the
explanation to a certain extent. For this reason: the
idea of bringing in the subject which was then so lightly
touched upon, was to connect it with the general scheme of evolu­
tionary development that we shall later have to study more
fully, and to show that throughout the entire universe of beings,
there runs one general plan. This is a very important subject
that we shall have to go into more in detail, later. The present
allusion to it is merely in order to connect a link which we might
otherwise pass over.
You all know, of course, that there are seven races all told on
this planet, in this Round on globe D, and that each of these races
has its own continent, follows its own course of evolution ; has
bodies— that is, the individual units of the race have bodies—
co-ordinated to and in harmony with the physical surroundings
in which they live.
344
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 343
But as regards the question of the division of the human racial
stream, that is, the later third Root-Race, into the sexual human­
ity which has evolved into the men and women of to-day, the
point to be emphasized at present is that what we call sex is but
a passing phase in racial evolution, and, strictly speaking, is not
normal to mankind on Globe D of our planetary chain. This
method of procréation actually was copied from the beasts,
which “ separated ” before " man Please understand this
clearly : sex is a transitory phase, a passing phase, in racial
evolution, and that it has no more importance than that ; and
further : as we are now evolving on the ascending arc, as we
have already passed in fact beyond the first steps of the Luminous
Arc, of the arc of ascent, we shall find as the ages pass that our
present physiological status as men and women is to be outgrown.
As a matter of fact, the Atlantean and Atlanto-Lemurian karma
has weighed so heavily upon us, the fifth race, that we are actually
belated, and have not at the present date, the middle point of the
fifth race, reached that stage as regards the evolving of the physical
body which otherwise we should have reached.
As it stands, however, the teaching tells us that at the end of
our own fifth race, men and women will be disappearing as oppo­
site sexes ; and that by the middle of the Sixth Root Race (the
race to come) men and women as separate sexes shall be no longer.
The race will consist of beings who are physiologically neither men
nor women ; and, as hinted just now, the first examples of
parthenogenetic reproduction are already due, and would have
shown themselves already, were it not for our being belated, as
already said, by the heavy weight of our Atlantean karma,
which we have been carrying, or rather “ working off ".
About the middle of the Sixth Race (the race to come) humanity
— then no longer “ men ” and “ women ” , but humanity— will
procreate their kind, if we can here properly use this word,
*' procreate ”— at any rate will evolve or give birth to their own
genus— by a process similar to that which took place in the early
Third Race, a process called in the Esoteric Wisdom " creating
sons by passive Yoga” ; that is to say, by meditation and by
unconscious will, at first, later to be succeeded by conscious will
in the Seventh or following Root-Race. The humans of that
period (the Sixth Root-Race) will produce children by meditation
and by will ; during the Seventh Root-Race, the last to come on
this Globe, during this Fourth Round— a race which to us now
would seem glorious— the humans of that race will produce their
kind in the same general manner ; but by consciously exercised
will and meditation, but still more impersonally and still more
ethereally than the Sixth Race will do. The Sixth will do so, much
as the flowers grow from the plants, almost unconsciously as it
346 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
were, hence by " passive Yoga ” ; not so much unconsciously from
the mental standpoint but physiologically almost unconscious of
any “ procreative " act, or any creative act. The Seventh will
“ create ” their offspring with conscious and fully active imagi­
nation, a force called kriy&iakti in Sanskrit. The difficulty is in
finding words to explain something which to us of the Fifth Root-
Race is non-existent, almost, and hence speculative or “ unreal ” .
The main point then, here, is to realize that this present
physiological state of sex is a passing racial evolutionary phase ;
and that every abuse, every misuse, no matter of what kind or
what the world may think about it, is a reaction contrary to the
evolutionary " law ” , to use the popular phraseology ; and that
while it is true that the present method is the one which nature
has evolved at the present time, as said before it is not really the
method which primordial humanity might have followed. Even
the Hebrew Bible alludes to this matter in a passage which you all
may recall.
We of the Fifth Race now are on the ascending arc; and we
especially, members of the Esoteric School, should at least attempt
to lead the race towards a nobler life as pioneers of Nature’s
forthcoming stages, being as we are members of the Buddhic
Hierarchy, otherwise called the Hierarchy of Compassion.
Our main theme to-night, as you will recollect, is the building
of the Kosmos, the building of worlds, and the building of man.
Throughout the vast extent of manifested being, there prevail
fundamental operations of nature, which men to-day call the
“ laws of nature ” , because they do not understand their origin.
Men personify " nature ” , which is a mere generalizing term ;
and they use the word ” law ”— which is merely a word adapted
from human action— in order to give a name to those fundamental
movements of Being. But there are operations of “ nature ” ,
and these fundamental operations of nature are actually the
life-currents in the spiritual essence governing our hierarchy, as
the life-currents in man are they which govern the atoms, astral
and physical, which compose his body.
Remember that space is not a vacuum, space is not a mere
container; if so, there would have to be a container of that
container, and so ad infinitum ; but space is the infinite fullness
of everything; it is the Boundless All, without beginning and
without end ; it is one vast organism ; it is a unity ; everything
is interlocked and interchained with everything else, and through
all there runs the one Universal L ife; there is the beating, as
said before, of the one Universal Heart. This thought is so
important for a proper understanding of our Philosophy, that its
repetition surely will be forgiven. There are no vacuum-separa­
tions, there is no absolute division anywhere. There is no real
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 347
vacuum; everything is fu ll; everything is full with and of
beings; and these beings with which the Boundless All is filled,
are space itself. Therefore, when we speak of space, we mean not
merely the vast, boundless extension of any one plane, but more
particularly the invisible spheres, the planes within, ascending as
it were, going inwards, and inwards, and inwards forever; and
outwards likewise.*
The next thought is that through the action and interaction of
the gods, monads, souls, and atoms, we conceive a world as spring­
ing forth in the beginning of its manvantara, from and through
the invisible deeps of space, and extending itself as it were,
casting itself, projecting itself, forward, in its descent down the
Shadowy Arc of matter-manifestation. And how ? Not by a
something or a somebody which existed before itself was there,
but by making itself its own world, evolving out its own Kosmos,
which thus becomes its garment or body.
The gods— and please do not think of human forms when we
speak of the gods; we mean the arupa, the formless, entities,
beings of pure intelligence and of understanding, pure essences,
pure spirits, formless as we conceive form— through that imper­
sonal (and may we say inevitable ?) energy, at any rate, by
reason of the karmic impulses behind them, project from them­
selves less bodies, inferior bodies, which are the monads ; and the
monads do precisely likewise and project the souls ; and the souls
do precisely likewise, and project the atoms. Each springs from
each. Through all, furthermore, there runs the boundless Self,
the boundless soul of the upper realms; but each one of these
atoms, each one of these souls, each one of these monads, each
one of these gods, is its own hierarchy, the supreme part, the head,
the seed, from which its own following hierarchy springs. Wheels
within wheels, lives within lives, consciousnesses within conscious­
nesses, beings within beings— a vast and endless congeries of
interlocked and interrelated and inter-living things. Pray get
this thought! It is the very foundation of the Ancient Wisdom.
All questions of theology that have so embarrassed and perplexed
the minds of men are solved just by these few simple principles
of the Ancient Wisdom-Religion. Think upon them for your­
selves, and make your own deductions therefrom.
Now let us briefly follow the evolutionary course of one hier­
archy, one solar system. The same “ law ” , if you like the word,
the same fundamental operation of nature, runs through all that
which we find done in the case of a solar system, and is also that
which takes place in the case of a universe, is that which takes
place in the case of a sun, of a planet, and of the beings which
overrun that planet. Suppose then that we figurate a god, a
divine seven-principled being, starting into activity after its
348 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
pralayic sleep, bringing with it the karmic seeds, the impulses
from the previous Maha-Manvantara, everyone of those seeds
having its karmic Swabhava, its karmic characteristic or essential
nature ; and starting into immediate activity when the life-wave
first arouses the sleeping spheres all comprised within the one
immense entity which we have agreed to call a " god We do
not exactly mean what the Hindus call a deva, which is some­
thing else ; but a god. But not God, not the Christian God. We
mean a god, one of the supreme intelligences, each one of which
is the head of a hierarchy, the hierarchies themselves being
numberless and “ filling space ” , being, in fact, space itself.
We simply must keep several ideas in our heads at once in essay­
ing an exposition of these intricate subjects. There is one of the
secrets of understanding the Ancient Wisdom : to retain in the
mind more than one conception at the same time ; it is our safe­
guard against mental biasses, and it is easy. Let me illustrate :
A man is driving an automobile : he may be at the same time
watching the road, watching for other automobiles, while in the
back of his mind there may be forming some plan of work ; and
he may also be talking to a friend. Let us keep these various
thoughts, all that has been spoken of so far this evening, in our
mind, as we consider this present matter.
Now this god is seven-principled, as said, and each principle
has its own work to do in the building of its kosmos ; each one acts
according to karmic impulses originating in the previous man-
vantara particularly, and in all previous manvantaras in general;
and each one of these gods moves into manifestation according to
the lines traced out for it by its own past consciousness and
actions in former epochs of manvantaric activity. Therefore
when these seeds of beings start into active existence, the in­
numerable monads or divine souls— divine seeds which form the
clothing of each one of these seven principles: when all these
principles spring into activity, each undertakes its own particular
work, a division of labor as it were, in the divine realms. First
the highest sends forth from itself a host of less beings, inferior
beings; and they find their habitat, their habitation and their
realm of activity, in the plane next " below ” , which is that of its
second principle. That second principle then begins its own
especial activity and does likewise; and thus two of the seven
principles and realms of being are now working; and so on down
the scale until we reach the lowest, the Prithiwl-tattwa, of the
divine series or scale.
When the astronomer looks into the ethery spaces and sees
those starry clouds, those nebulous masses, in some cases (though
not in all, for these nebulae are not all the same, but in those which
are) destined for the beginning of worlds, he sees there what has
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 349
so far taken place in material manifestation of a hierarchy through
the activity of the sub-seven degrees of the lowest or seventh
principle of a divine entity or " god ” informing an otherwise
invisible life-center, informed by that god’s vital essence, which
is the fundamental life of that hierarchy, the fundamental
impulse, or what men call the fundamental " law ” , the funda­
mental operation of its nature, the fundamental characteristic,
the Swabhava. In such manner, then, the vital essence creates its
own dwelling— a sun, a planet, which cycles down, as it were, into
visible evolution. But mark : each Head of a hierarchy retains its
own place, powers, and nature; but its offspring thicken or
condense ; its offspring thus forming its garments on the several
planes of being. Each of these garments is a host of living beings,
atoms, souls— the name matters little providing we understand
the thought. We must use analogies derived from our human
vocabulary, because we have as yet evolved no words which can
adequately explain these spiritual things; therefore remember
that by the law of analogy such words are applicable, mutatis
mutandis, as the Latin phrase goes, “ making the necessary
allowances for circumstances ” , to various spheres of being.
When this thickening and grossening of the fabric (which takes
place from each entity shooting forth from itself, emanating from
itself, other less entities,— “ less ” here meaning " inferior ”)
reaches its lowest degree, then we have a sun and planets. Let us
take our planet as an instance. When such a planet has reached
its lowest point of evolution driven by the karmic impulse in­
hering in it, which is at the middle point of its Fourth Round
(which we on our planet have passed), then begins the reaction,
the reversal of the kosmic operation, and the life-currents begin
to withdraw inwards, thenceforth following the Luminous Arc
“ upwards ” : not leaving its “ garments ” behind altogether;
but as they were sent forth, so are they now withdrawn inwards.
This, then, is an outline of the process of the evolution of spirit,
and the involution of matter ; just as the processes of projection
or casting forth were the involution of spirit and the evolution of
matter on the downward or Shadowy Arc. Thus is the Kosmos
built.
Now another thought. Each one of these gods, each one of
these monads, each one of these souls, each one of these atoms, is
an exhaustless reservoir of consciousness, of force, and of
matter. Let us take the atmic (or seventh or highest) of the god
whom we have chosen as example. Such atmic plane or sphere
is a “ laya-center ” . A laya-center is a nirvanic center, that
part, or place, or condition rather or state of being, where homo­
geneity of substance is, where heterogeneity has ceased, or has
not yet begun. When such laya-center begins its activity towards
35o FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
evolution, it casts forth, as said, from itself ceaselessly, hosts and
multitudes of these inferior beings ; but its own inner strength is
in nowise diminished. It is an exhaustless reservoir, a creative
center; precisely as the sun, which is one of the finest analogies
that we have, casts forth from itself ceaselessly, during a man-
vantara, practically illimitable hosts of solar rays, yes, and also
of beings. Each one of these beings has its future cyclic course
to run ; and from being originally an unconscious god-spark, as
said in the beginning of these our studies, it has to develop into a
self-conscious god, and do the same kosmic work that its own great
progenitor did or is doing.
We ourselves, when we were not men as yet, unevolved rays
only, belonged to the lower realms of spiritual being; then
pursued our evolutionary course up to self-conscious manhood;
and we who are now men, humans, are destined on the future
planet which shall follow this our present globe— the offspring of
the earth— to attain a development greater than manhood here ;
and those inferior lives which are now trailing after us on the
evolutionary journey, the beasts, the plants, and the minerals,
will have then their turn to pass through the human stage. Life
and being form an endless chain, an endless ladder of progress ;
yet when manhood has been attained comes moral responsibility :
at any moment there lies the path before us : the path to the right,
up the Luminous Arc ; or the path to the left, downwards along
the Arc of Shadows.
As said before, the Teacher does not permit me to speak fully as
yet of the subject comprised in the words " downward path ” ;
though it forms half of the teaching, and she certainly will permit
it one of these days. It is a very important study, because without
it we cannot understand one half of the processes of evolution
and involution.
Our time this evening is drawing to a close, but it is necessary
for us to call attention to the following diagram :
E soteric Bráhmanic Elements Mystic
Line Tattwas Greek
I. Swabhawat Àdi-tattwa The One First Logos -,
2. Ádi-Buddhi (a) Anupapádaka- Spirit Second Logos
tattwa DhyAni-
3 - Gods Ákááa-tattwa Aether Gods. Third * Chohans
Logos (Mahat)
4 - Monads Taijasa-tattwa Fire Daimones
5 - Souls Váyu-tattwa Air Heroes
4
6 . Atoms Apas-tattwa Water Men ► PlTRIS
7- Bodies Prithiwi-tattwa Earth Beasts J
8.
9 -
io.
E lemental World
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 351
Here we have six columns representing analogical cases of
cosmical and psychological development. First we have what we
may call the Esoteric Line : to the left of that we have placed the
numbers, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,10, representing the full hierarchy
of ten stages or degrees. The next column gives the Brdhmanic
Tattwas. Tattwa is a Sanskrit word, which may be translated as
element, meaning fhe substantial “ reality ” back of the pheno­
menal appearance, upon which the seed-consciousness works;
the garment or bearer of the inworking consciousness. Then
come in the next column the Elements, as commonly understood
everywhere in ancient times. Then comes the Mystic Greek
system, as found mostly in the neo-Platonic and neo-Pythagorean
philosophies. And lastly comes the division of the beings com­
posing the evolving Life-Wave, or River of Life, into two generic
(general) forms, Dhydni-Chohans, and Pitris.
§1. In the Esoteric Line we have first Swabhawat, a Sanskrit
word meaning, as you know, the self-evolving, the self-developing,
even translated sometimes as the self-existent. Corresponding to
this is the Adi-tattwa in the next column. Adi is a Sanskrit word
meaning original, primordial. Corresponding to this among the
elements is The ONE. We have no word for this element. The
ancients referred to it in various ways. We will simply call it
The One, as it is the Seed from which the others spring in
“ descent ” , that is to say in thickening and grossening during
the evolutionary course. The Mystic Greek has the First Logos,
to correspond.
^§2. The planes below are next given, reading from left to right.
Adi-Buddhi, original, orprimordial Buddhi ; and when the thought
is somewhat changed, and a slightly different hierarchy is to be
followed, it is called Adi-Buddha, individualizing the Hierarchy
in tracing the development of the Hierarchy of Compassion,
though when we speak of Adi-Buddhi, we refer rather to the action
of the principles than to the entities imbodying those principles.
Corresponding to it in the Tattwas is Anupapddaka-tattwa,
another Sanskrit word meaning " parentless ” , that which does
not follow an individualized progenitor, therefore “ parentless ” ,
not that it has no source or origin, but that it itself is the primal
seed of individuality, which in this particular Hierarchy first
springs into manifestation in it. The case is like the entrance of
the manas into man, thereby giving him self-consciousness and
individuality, which he does not get from his parents. Among
the elements we may call it spirit. The Mystic Greek has it as the
Second Logos.
§3. The third plane below is the Gods, corresponding of course to
the Mdnasaputras in man, the sons of Mind. Its Tattwa is Akdia-
tattwa, the word Akdia meaning brilliant, shining, luminous. Let
352 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
me point out here parenthetically that strictly speaking Swabhavat
is the proper correspondence of Akaia; but the way in which this
diagram is arranged, is an attempt to show corresponding intelli­
gences and activities in the several individual hierarchies here set
forth ; and therefore AkaSa-tattwa corresponds in it to the Gods
in the Esoteric Line. Among the elements it is Aether, but not
the ether of science. The ether of science is‘merely one of its
lower principles. The Mystic Greek has likewise the Gods, other­
wise composing the third logos. In Brahmanic philosophy this
plane is called Mahat, a word which means " great Mahat
is a technical term in the Brahmanic system, and is the “ Father-
Mother ” of Manas; it is the “ mother ” of the Manasaputras
or " sons of mind ” , if you like, or that element from which
they spring, that element which they breathe and of which they
are the children.
§4. The Monads, corresponding to Taijasa-tattwa, meaning the
shining, the brilliant, thefiery, the sparkling. Among the Elements
it is Fire. The Mystic Greek has the Daimones corresponding to
it, beings whom the Christians, with their usual intelligence,
have turned into “ demons ” or “ devils It simply means
spiritual beings of a certain class ; but this thought is too intricate
to go into at any length this evening. I may merely point out
that the Daimones belong to the hierarchy of Consciousness, as
shown in the diagram, and not to the hierarchy of the Shadowy
Arc. Socrates, as you know, frequently alluded to his Daimonion,
meaning his “ guardian-angel As he said : “ My daemon told
me always never what to do, but always what to refrain from
doing It is, as it were, the " conscience ” of later thought.
Now these four classes are grouped under the general heading of
the Dhyani-Chohans, the " Chohans of Meditation ” , the " Lords
of Meditation ” . The following three classes belong to the Pitris
— beings of lower degree, whom you will remember as mentioned
in The Secret Doctrine, and there called " Fathers ” , because they
are more particularly the actual progenitors of our lower prin­
ciples ; whereas the Dhyani-Chohans are actually in one most
important sense our own selves. We were born from them ;
we were the monads, we were the atoms, the souls, projected, sent
forth, emanated, by the Dhyanis, as pointed out before.
§5. Now the Fifth degree downward comprises in this particular
diagram what are called souls in the Esoteric Line. In the Brah­
manic Tattwas we see Vdyu-tattwa. Vayu means airy, aerial. In
the Elements, Air ; in the Mystic Greek, the Heroes. These are
the highest class of the Pitris.
§6. The sixth are the Atoms. Please remember, as said before,
that atom as here used does not mean the atom of science, but
what we may call the Astral Monad, of which the atoms of the
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 353
physical world are the emanations, the projections. The atoms,
the astral atoms, clothe themselves in the physical world, which
is their garment-offspring. The Brahmanic Tattwa is Apas-
tatlwa ; the Elements show here Water ; and the Mystic Greek,
Men.
§7. The seventh is the Bodies, vehicles merely, corresponding to
Prithiwi-tattwa. Prithiwi is a Sanskrit word meaning extension,
i.e., wide, spacious. It is common to speak of Prakriti as “ mat­
ter ", but really Prithiwi is the word better corresponding to
what we call matter. Prakriti is rather “ Nature ” and the living
garment of spirit. The Element is Earth : and the Mystic Greek
in this hierarchy of entities, shows the Beasts.
These last three classes are the Pitris : and below these seven,
comes the Elemental world, in three planes. One of these elemen­
tal planes or worlds we may mention in passing, as it is the
“ Interior Realm ” which has its locus or habitation at the center
of any globe.
Now, the evolution of mankind depends upon and follows that
of the respective elements in each instance— that is to say that
the human life-wave evolves in each of the seven elements one
after the other, from the highest downwards to the last; and
then on the turn of the Grand Cycle, ascending through them
all to the highest again. Each globe of the seven of the Planetary
Chain, each of the seven Root-Races on every globe, partakes of
the nature and qualities of the kosmic Element it happens to be
evolving in and through, whether it be what is technically called
“ Earth ” , or “ Water ” , or “ Air ” , or “ Fire ” , or “ .¿Ether ” ,
or “ Spirit ” , or the “ Nameless One ” . Man’s seven principles
likewise correspond to and are derived from the seven kosmic
Elements, each to each. And mere bulk of body, or size, has noth­
ing to do with the nature of man and his powers, with the building
of man, or his destiny.
For instance : the First and Second Root-Races were gigantic
beings as far as mere size was concerned, but they were otherwise
mere shells, mere phantom-creatures, so to say, the offspring of
the Pitris alone, as yet not filled with the divine fires of self-
consciousness and intellect. They were ethereal on what was
then an ethereal earth, our present gross planet “ Terra ” . They
had no physiological organs, properly speaking, and their shapes
were different from ours, although the general human skeletal
frame-work as we now know it was within them, evolved from
the previous Round on this earth.
In Races the Fifth and the Sixth still to come, humanity will
evolve bodies corresponding to the surroundings they will then
be in ; and in very truth, those surroundings themselves will be
developed or made by the humanity evolving therein, actually
354 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
evolving their own surroundings, which will be their own emana­
tions. We may conceive of them, if you like, as very small beings,
Lilliputian in size, perhaps, but nevertheless of gigantic intellects,
and of immense spiritual powers. If we will only once realize, as
even our scientists are beginning to do, the almost limitless forces
locked up in an atom, a thing so small that it as yet is merely a
figment of the scientific imagination, which' no one has ever
seen, or knows anything about except certain deductions which
have been more or less gradually made by studying the workings
of the atoms, through the physical phenomena of beings, we can
realize that if even physical matter contains forces or powers as
great as even one atom has, what may not man, upon evolving
that which is within himself, evolving the unspeakable grandeur
of his inner nature, as he is going to do— at least those who will
pass the “ critical periods ”— we may understand, I repeat, that
mere size of body does not mean possession of power or of know­
ledge, or of intelligence or of compassion. As a matter of fact,
it is perhaps rather the contrary : mere volume or rather mass
weighing the inner spirit rather heavily down.
And it is quite permissible to conceive of gods so small, that an
atom, one of our physical atoms, would be a cosmical universe to
it. And to use the old Brahmanic terms, there sits at the Heart
of Being a god, thinking divine thoughts, and ruling its universe.
So when we speak of men at the end of the Fifth Race in future
ages as evolving physical vehicles out from themselves, which
nevertheless will preserve the same general skeleton outline as
at present; when we say that their shape will be neither that of
man nor of woman, we simply mean that man himself, through
suffering and experience, and through the evolving of that which
is lying latent within him, and even now ready to appear, will
bring forth into exteriorization from within himself his own inner
nature : a sexless being. From that time forwards, men and
women will be no more, replaced by far nobler Humans.
You will remember that at our last meeting it was said that
the time had even now come when children might be produced
without fathers; but the race is belated in its evolutionary
course, and probably ages will yet pass before this partheno-
genetic process begins. Yet even this process is merely the first
step to a still more different process to come later; but it will
take place before this our Fifth Root-Race ends; it will come to
pass partly because men and women aregrowing more alike, instead
of more unlike. Clean instinct will then rule instead of the beast-
impulse. However, as long as marriage lasts, it ought to be
what every Theosophical Teacher, and what every true The-
osophist too, feels it should be .* a union of mutual respect and
kindness, in which each helps the other to grow morally and
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 355
intellectually, and anything under this or less than it, is
degrading.
At the end of this Fifth Root-Race, man and woman as sexes
will have nearly passed away ; and in the Sixth Race, naturally,
at certain specified times, without passion, by meditation and by
passive will and thought, humans will evolve forth their offspring,
much in the " unconscious ” way (though the term " uncon­
scious ” is incorrect) that the flowers bring forth their blooms;
and in the Seventh Race of this Round on this planet the humans
of that splendid time will bring forth from within themselves,
glorious creations of the active will and of the imagination, their
“ children ” ; and there will then be a race of Adepts, of incarnate
devas upon earth. This will be in the Seventh Race on this
planet during this present Fourth Round. As said several times
before, it is only because we have sunken morally and are belated
that the phenomenon of virginal birth has not yet appeared on
earth as a physical fact; though, as pointed out at our last
meeting, it has been “ prophesied ” in religious mysteries, and the
initiation-ceremonies contained one where the initiant, after
certain conditions had been complied with— you will forgive me,
this is dangerous ground— was said to be “ born of a virgin ", thus
anticipating, or rather forecasting, what was to come to the entire
Race in the future ; this being, as said before, a reward for noble
service rendered in behalf of mankind. Here is a wondrous
Truth, concealed and kept hid for fear of the profanation which
would be sure to follow if these divine mysteries, if these divine
teachings, fell into unworthy hands directed by scheming brains I
CHAPTER XXXII
OUT OF THE INVISIBLE INTO THE VISIBLE. FROM THE VISIBLE
INTO THE INVISIBLE. THE MAGNUM OPUS.
5. This (universe) existed in the shape of Darkness, unperceived, destitute
of distinctive marks, unattainable by reasoning, unknowable, wholly immersed,
as it were, in deep sleep.
6. Then the divine Self-existent (Svayamblifi, himself) indiscernible, (but)
making (all) this, the great elements and the rest, discernible, appeared with
irresistible (creative) power, dispelling the darkness.
19. But from minute body (-framing) particles of these seven very powerful
Purushas springs this (world), the perishable from the imperishable.
20. Among them each succeeding (element) acquires the quality of the
preceding one, and whatever place (in the sequence) each of them occupies,
even so many qualities it is declared to possess.
21. But in the beginning he assigned their several names, actions, and con­
ditions to all (created beings), even according to the words of the Veda.
22. He, the Lord, also created the class of the gods, who are endowed with
life, and whose nature is action; and the subtile class of the Sádhyas, and the
eternal sacrifice.
51. When he whose power is incomprehensible, had thus produced the
universe and me, he disappeared in himself, repeatedly suppressing one period
by means of the other.
52. When that divine one wakes, then this world stirs : when he slumbers
tranquilly, then the universe sinks to sleep.
53. But when he reposes in calm sleep, the corporeal beings whose nature
is action, desist from their actions and mind becomes inert.
54. When they are absorbed all at once in that great soul, then he who is
the soul of all beings sweetly slumbers, free from all care and occupation.
57. Thus he, the imperishable one, by (alternately) waking and slumbering,
incessantly revivifies and destroys this whole movable and immovable (creation).
The Laws of Manu (Sacred Books of the East, Edited by Max Müller).
A
FAR-SEEING hope and a bright peace abide in the
hearts of all faithful students of our Order ; in those at
least who have learned to perceive that behind the
mask of visible things there is a splendor of life and
consciousness which is theirs for the taking ; and also that it
depends upon themselves entirely to what extent they may advance
along the pathway which ascends ever upwards and onwards along
the Luminous Arc, upon which we, as a race, have been (and are
now) marching ever since the middle part of the Fourth Root-Race.
The Mystery-Schools of antiquity made the one great aim and
object of their studies and initiatory ceremonies the bringing forth
into actuality in each candidate or initiant, of his immortal
nature, of that part of him which belongs to, or rather is the
offspring of, the inner monad; that which in fact makes him a
conscious part of the Buddhic Hierarchy, of the Hierarchy of
Compassion. It is the union of the personal man with these
356
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 357
higher principles of his own nature that produces the " living
Christ ”, or the fully Awakened One called the Buddha. It was
the object of initiation, as said, not merely to make man con­
scious of this higher life within him, of these splendors within ;
but also to enable him to become ready and fit to teach others
of that life which he himself felt within himself. That was the
main object and'aim of all the Mystery-Schools the world over,
however much they may have differed in forms and in the words
in which they clothed their thoughts. It was, in other words, to
make each initiant or candidate a living follower and example
of the Silent Watcher of whom we have spoken in other studies.
Now, there are many Silent Watchers, as has been pointed out.
The Silent Watcher, in fact, is the Hierarch or supreme hier-
archial head of any one particular hierarchy of the numberless
hierarchies in the Kosmos ; the one spoken so inspiringly of by
II. P. Blavatsky in The Secret Doctrine is the chief of the Dhyani-
Buddhas governing this Fourth Round on this planet.
It would seem a curious thing to refer to in this connexion;
and yet it seems a necessary thing to do, to speak of the different
vagaries of thought, quasi-philosophic, quasi-scientific, quasi­
religious, which are being spread abroad in the world today.
Many are the teachings of Theosophy, which are now so
familiar and beautiful, which in the beginning were not easily
received by many in the world, because they were strange and
conflicted with the prejudices— religious, scientific, and other—
that men had at the time.
How many people objected to the teaching of reincarnation
when it was first promulgated ! What said one once to the
present speaker: “ I do not want to be reborn a cab-horse; 1
do not want to be reborn a flea ; I am a man I ” Obviously, there
was here no objection to the doctrine of reincarnation which
teaches no such metempsychosis as th at; the objection was to
his own prejudices, and he did not know i t !
Similar is the case with some of the doctrines which, with the
Teacher’s permission, will have to be developed and unfolded in
our studies here. I will not say that among ourselves these
teachings will meet with misunderstanding; but among others
to whom these teachings may go out, they may meet with
objectors; the root-thoughts or bases of them will be mis­
understood at first, and the objectors will not wait for time and
reflexion to confer an understanding of them. Meanwhile, let us
remember that the utmost vigorous exercise of the intuitional
and of the intellectual powers of each student is absolutely
necessary, and is actually demanded by the rules of our Order.
We take nothing on blind faith ; but while that is the fact, on
the other hand there likewise remains for us the duty to cultivate
358 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
the spiritual and meditative faculty within our beings, the
immortal part of our natures, which tells us first that this Order
is the link with the Hierarchy of Compassion, and that if we come
here honestly and sincerely, not hypocritically, not merely in
order to find out what is being done or said, then we must believe
that our Teacher knows her business, and that she would not
tolerate the minutest deviation or divagation frbm the doctrines
which her heart and intellect tell her are true.
Let us now take up the study which we temporarily closed at
our last meeting— Gods, Monads, and Atoms, as regards their
respective work in the building of a world, in the building of a
Cosmos, and in the building of Man. We refer not only to his
body of flesh, but this noble doctrine includes also the Why and
the How, yea, and the When of his descent through spiritual
spheres into incarnation and his existences in those spheres. Let
us read first from The Secret Doctrine, Volume II, page 267 :
The doctrine teaches that the only difference between animate
and inanimateobjects on earth, between an animal and a human frame,
is that in some the various “ fires ” are latent, and in others they are
active. The vitalfires are in all things and not an atom is devoid of
them. But no animal has the three higher principles awakened in him ;
theyvtre simply potential, latent, and thus non-existing. And so would
the animal frames of men be to this day, had they been left as they
came out from the bodies of their Progenitors, whose shadows they
were, to grow, unfolded only by the powers and forces immanent in
matter.
Out of the invisible into the visible, from the deeps of inmost
space, when the time comes, the life-wave sends forth its flowings
into the exterior and into the outer spheres, making for itself as
it advances, creating for itself, through the beings which represent
that wave, its own garments, which kosmically are its planes, its
worlds. These several stages of evolution or progression, as
before said, are (1) the gods, whose garments are the (2) monads,
whose garments are the (3) souls, whose garments are the (4)
atoms, whose garments are (5) bodies. Refer the order to worlds,
and the doctrine is true. Refer the order to man, and the doctrine
is true. Refer the order to the Elemental, mineral, vegetable,
beast, and human kingdoms of this earth, and the doctrine is
again analogically true. Stage by stage, degree by degree, as the
living wave advances, it projects from itself at each stage, it
casts forth from itself at each stage, innumerable entities inferior
to itself, which form its vehicles, which we may also call its
garments, its bodies, or its planes and its worlds. Each god of
the great host, for instance, from within itself produces multitudes
of monads ; each monad produces from within itself multitudes
of souls; each soul produces from within itself multitudes of
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC FHlLOSOFHY 359
atoms; and these clothe themselves in vehicles of matter, or
bodies, and all run through their long evolutionary course. Then,
when the lowest point of the great round of life has been reached,
the upward cycle begins : there is a re-entering of the vital forces,
a gathering up, a gathering withinwards, of the hosts of beings ,*
the visible passes back by degrees into the invisible, plus the
growth and experiences gained during the journey by each
individual entity. Each one has advanced one plane upwards in
its evolution; each one has gone so many milestones farther
along the path ; and, finally, the Life-Wave enters the divinity
from which it went forth, but nobler, higher, in every respect. It
began its long evolutionary course after its equally long pralayic
sleep, obeying the karmic impulses awakening it to a new life-
period ; and now having completed it, it is once more ready to
issue forth again to form a new manvantara, and in order to do
this, once again develops from within itself new planes, new
elements, new principles, new hosts of beings as it did before, but
now nobler, ever new ones going forth, growing ever higher and
higher in grandeur and power. Such is a general outline of the
evolutionary course.
You know the old Hermetic saying : " As it is above, so it is
below ” . That saying is found in an ancient writing said to have
been engraved on an emerald table ; according to the legend,
it was called the “ Emerald Table of Hermes ", and is undoubtedly
based on one of the ancient Hermetic teachings. I will quote
the first few lines of i t :
True, without error, certain, most true; That which is above is
as that which is below; and that which is below, is as that which is
above, for performing the marvels of the Kosmos. As all things are
from the [Primordial] One, by the mediation of One [the Logos—
that is to say the host of Dhyán-Chohans] so all things arose out of this
One Thing by evolving. . . .
And that “ one thing ” is the summit of any hierarchy, the
divinity already spoken of in giving the general outline of the
evolutionary procession.
Turning to the Zoroastrian faith, we find the following verses
in an ancient work (which modern scholars, for reasons best
known to themselves, try to bring down to late times, but which
unquestionably contains very archaic thought) called The
Des&tir, in the chapter called The Book of Shet the Prophet
Zirtusht, " Zirtusht" being one of the forms of the name which
in English is called Zoroaster, following the Greco-Latin form :
they are verses 29, 30, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, as follows :
29. Know, O my Friend! that the essence of the Self-Existent is
one, and without limits or conditions.
360 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
30. Being is like light; and light becometh visible. [Mark
that I]
35. Whatsoever is on earth is the reflexion and the shadow of
something that is in the [spiritual] World-Sphere.
36. While that resplendent something remaineth in its native
condition, it is well also with its shadow.
37. When that resplendent thing removeth away from its shadow,
life removeth to a distance.
38. Again, that light [that resplendent thing] is the shadow of some­
thing still more resplendent than itself. [Note the hierarchical teaching
here.]
39. And so on up to Me, who am the Light of Lights [the Hier­
archical Head.]
It probably has occurred to every thoughtful Theosophical
mind, that if man has within himself a quasi-divine monad, and
seated within that divine monad a divinity, a god, it is strange
that our consciousness of this unity with the Divine through
this monadic link is not stronger in us than it is today. The
Christians speak of their “ guardian angel ” , and so do the
Mohammedans; and other peoples, such as the Greeks, spoke
as did Socrates of the Daimon, the guardian-Self; but why is
it that our conscience— that of you and of me, and of all other
human beings— is not stronger and more vocal than it is ? Why
is it that we have to work and struggle inwardly to get this
interior illumination consciously, which, even according to the
Christian teachings, must be “ taken by violence ” ? Is the
reason not here ? Man is composite ; he is a complex, a com­
pound being, and lives on different planes, and these planes are
the seven elements of nature ; and the seven elements of nature
are its seven principles; and the seven principles of man can
otherwise be called man’s seven elements.
The monad lives in its own world, in its own logoic activity,
with its quasi- or semi-divine powers in full action, far more
self-conscious on its own plane than you are or I am on this our
plane of consciousness. And similarly with the god within us,
seated within the monad.
But further. You will remember that in discussing (briefly at
the time, because we had not yet laid the foundation for it) the
teaching referring to the Silent Watcher, we pointed out that
it was based on the fact of the many and the one— how man and
the universe are both, respectively, many and one, many in the
lower nature, and one in the higher. Now, then, please note
carefully the following : Our consciousness is no higher than it is
because we are (each of us) a person ; and it is the raising of this
person, of this personal self, of this personal soul, into the imperson­
ality and individuality of the monad, that is the great work, the
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 361
magnum opus, of life. Here is the answer in brief to the question
propounded above. The purpose of all initiatory ceremonies—
to put the answer in another form— the aim of all initiatory
teachings of the ancient Mystery-Schools, was, as said in the begin­
ning of our study this evening, the evocation of the higher self, of
this inner being ; and it is possible to do it. A strong and in­
domitable will is-the first requisite. Purity of life is the second,
mental purity above everything else. And absolute loyalty and
devotion to the teachings of the Esoteric Wisdom and to the
Teacher, is the third ; and these three principles of life and con­
duct are true Raja-Yoga ; and this " kingly union ” is the union
with the god within, our divine Self. When this union takes
place, then you have what the Greeks called in their Ancient
Mysteries, “ Theopneusty ” , the breathing into the personal of the
Impersonal Essence.
Yet, preceding this stage or degree of initiation, the second or
intermediate, there came the first of these initiations, the actual
and real meeting face to face with the god within, your own
Higher Ego-Self; and this degree was called “ Theophany ” , a
Greek compound word meaning the " appearance of a god ”— i.e.,
of that god which is within you, your own inner self. Further,
when the two preceding unions were achieved, when the high
degrees of Theopneusty and Theophany had been won, there
came a third and last stage, which the Greeks called “ Theopathy ” ,
a Greek compound word meaning “ suffering a god ” , “ enduring
a god ”— a meaning later to be more fully explained. Such an
initiate became even in life an evolved Christos, or as the Bud­
dhists call it, an " Awakened One ” , a Buddha, the awakening
to the living Buddhic entity within the man, the last stage of
human knowledge possible on this earth on this Round, the
Fourth. Very few indeed are they who attain to this supreme
stage of Incarnate Wisdom ! Such a one was the Lord Buddha,
Gautama-Sakyamuni, Prince of Kapilavastu. He it is, we are
told, who today as a Nirmanakaya, forms the summit (or Silent
Watcher) of the Hierarchy of Sages forming our own Holy Order,
living among them invisible to those of lower degree and visible
to those of higher degree; in what the Buddhists of the north
call the " sacred land of Sambhala ” , that mysterious locality
which is placed north of the Himalayas, and not so far from what
is called the desert of Gobi or Shamo. And, that wondrous
Thing, that wondrous entity, that wondrous being, which was in
H. B. Blavatsky and worked through her, came from Sambhala
— came from this hierarchy. I do not here refer merely to the
woman, to the physical body; no, nor even to the personality
born in Russia ; but to that wonderful Thing who incarnated in
hat body, and who left part of “ herself ” behind there and who
362 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
went forth into the world crippled psychically, obeying in this
respect an archaic law, which was the cause of so much mis­
understanding about her. This Entity did its work in the world
at the proper cyclic time for its appearance among men: the
opening of a new “ Messianic Cycle
You know the warning about “ false Christs ” which is given in
the Christian Gospels, in Matthew and in Mark— in Matthew,
chapter 24, verses 23, 24, and 25, and in Mark, chapter 13, verses
21, 22, and 23. They are practically the same in sense and words,
and they evidently are both— Mark and Matthew— taken from
a former, earlier, Christian Gospel, possibly the so-called Gospel
" according to the Hebrews ” , of which scholars know ; but which
they have never yet found. At any rate, the writer of the above
warning spoke truly when, using the alleged words df Jesus, he
said in substance : " Many shall come after me, teaching false
Christs, who will try to lead you astray, saying ‘ Lo here he is ! ’
and ‘ Lo, there he is ! ’ Believe it not ” . Now, these words are
not necessarily of solely Christian application : it is the warning
against imposture contained in them that we quote. They could
apply equally well to Jews, Hindus, Buddhists, ancient Americans,
Scandinavians, to any people living anywhere in the world, for
the warning could apply to all. Why ? Because there are in
fact cyclic crises or periods when real " saviors ” of men do
appear, as also “ false prophets ” and “ false Christs ” . They
come always whenever the time is ripe. After every period of
2160 years, the length of the “ messianic cycle ” , there comes a
recrudescence of spiritual faith into the world at times of material
growth and spiritual decadence; in those times that Plato calls
the “ barren periods ” , a Messenger “ comes ” from Sambhala,
and gives his doctrine to men and establishes it, and then passes.
And instantly copyists, or perhaps false disciples— those who
perhaps are seeking prominence for themselves, or who are
deceived, or who perhaps are even misled by their own prejudices,
by the weaknesses of their own human minds— let us put it in
the most charitable way possible— begin making sects, begin
preaching “ false Christs ” , begin to make an appeal to the
wonder-loving appetite of the people. And a new sect is born,
and either dies out or lives on for a time, and the world is priest-
ridden and man-hierarchy ridden for another series of centuries,
until by his own spiritual vigor and his mental strength, man
frees himself again; and after turbulence and achings of the
heart there comes a new real light, a new real Christos, a new
light from the Hierarchy of Compassion. It is the working of the
same old appeal to men’s spiritual inner fires, by the spiritual
Dhyanis who incarnated primarily in the Third Root-Race on
this planet in this Round as the Manasaputras, and who thereby
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 363
saved us from aeons of animality and unspeakable degradation,
and untold ages of lightless wandering.
There is the situation. We must follow either the " right-
hand ” or the " left ” , as the ancient Buddhists said. “ Keeping
the link unbroken ” means following the “ right-hand ” path.
Each one of us as individuals has the choice. None other can
choose for us. All our Teacher can do is to appeal and to teach.
Each one of us has his conscience, which he must follow, and with
which no interference is ever tolerated in our Order. But mark
you, be sure that the path you choose is the path of conscience
and wisdom. Be sure you are not led along the left-hand path
by wiles and guile of many kinds.
These are old and trite sayings, but they have always a proper
application. Their truth is not lessened by the fact that we are
all familiar with them.
At our next meeting we shall have to undertake more definitely
the study of how the life-wave passes into imbodiments, making
its own vehicles by projection from itself— by bringing forth from
within its own focus of vitality— innumerable inferior entities,
giving them forth as man gives forth his thoughts ; and then in
future studies show how the life-wave passes down the “ Shadowy
Arc ” into ever grosser manifestation, until the critical period is
reached, when the ascending cycle of the “ Luminous Arc ”
begins. We shall have to refer to a wonderful old Greek and
Roman philosophic school, the Stoic, and show how true were
their teachings regarding the evolution of the elements, these
elements following each other down into manifestation, each
giving form to each. For in this teaching we may find a proper
understanding of how the Kosmos is built, and how man is
constructed, and the Why and the How of his evolution, and why
he is here on earth now and not elsewhere, either farther along
the path or not so far.
All these are matters which are directly connected with the
scientific researches of our own day, for modern scientific discovery
is making great strides forward, and will sooner or later need
guidance, or it too will take the “ left-hand path ” . H. P.
Blavatsky has told us plainly that it is through the Theosophical
Movement that will come the light which is to enlighten the
world and guide the footsteps of man on the path along the
Luminous Arc ; and it is our duty to aid in this noble work with
all our strength ; and if we do not understand our own philosophy
properly and rightly, so that we can meet others and talk with
them convincingly, we are failing in our duty. But those of us
who have an indomitable will and who have awakened the inner
Christos within us, even to such a small extent that we can see
even something of that wonderful Light within which gives us
364 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
far-seeing hope and abiding peace: those of us who have felt it
even in slight degree, will realize that in it and nowhere else on this
earth, nor in any other sphere, visible or invisible, lies the Path, the
ancient Path, the small, old Path of which the Hindu Upanishads
speak, that leads to the Heart of the Universe.
CHAPTER XXXIII
THE LIFE-WAVE AND THE SEVEN ELEMENTS. THE ESOTERIC
PHILOSOPHY AS TAUGHT BY THE STOICS.
If, out of the material portion of the ether, by virtue of the inherent restless­
ness of its particles, the forms of worlds and their species of plants and animals
can be evolved, why, out of the spiritual part of the ether, should not successive
races of beings, from the stage of monad to that of man, be developed ; each
lower form unfolding a higher one until the work of evolution is completed on
our earth, in the production of immortal man ?
Isis Unveiled, (H. P. Blavatsky), I, 340.
The most positive of materialistic philosophers agree that all that exists was
evolved from ether; hence air, water, earth, and fire, the four primordial ele­
ments, must also proceed from ether and chaos the first Duad; all the imponder­
ables, whether now known or unknown, proceed from the same source. Now, if
there is a spiritual essence in matter, and that essence forces it to shape itself
into millions of individual forms, why is it illogical to assert that each of these
spiritual kingdoms in nature is peopled with beings evolved out of its own
material ? Chemistry teaches us that in man's body there are air, water, earth,
and heat, or fire— air is present in its components ; water in the secretions ;
earth in the inorganic constituents ; and fire in the animal heat. The Kabalist
knows by experience that an elemental spirit contains only one, and that each
one of the four kingdoms has its own peculiar elemental spirits ; man being
higher than they, the law of evolution finds its illustration in the combination
of all four in him.
Ibid. I, 343.
F
OR thousands of years, our present Teacher has told us,
there has been no such attempt as there is at present,
on the part of our Masters, our Elder Brothers, to bring
forth to the attention of mankind, the doctrines which
we have been studying at these meetings for the past few years ;
and that the attempt is such and so great, any student of Antiquity
may assure himself. The reason is that at about the time of the
discovery of America there came the end of one of the racial
cycles, and the inauguration of another, which has culminated
at the present time into the various spiritual, psychical, and
physical disturbances both of man and of the earth, such as we
have been experiencing in the last ten or twelve years.
You remember what Cicero, the Roman orator, tells us of those
who never had had the immense advantages conferred by initia­
tion : he tells us, in the metaphorical language of his day, that
those who were initiated lived and died with a brighter hope
and a deeper knowledge of man and things ; and that those who
did not have the supreme advantages of the secret teachings of
the Ancient Wisdom given through initiation, lived, more par­
ticularly after death, in what he described as the shades and mud
365
2 B
366 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
and degradation and sorrow and filth. Words which well merit
our attention, because Cicero, like most men of his time, had
indeed passed through the Eleusinian Rites, a fact which we
know because he himself so tells us.
Now the main subject which we have to study more fully this
evening is the procedure followed by Nature in the building of
worlds and of the Kosmos and of man ; and directly connected
with this our subject, are the different views of the gods, the
monads, the souls, the atoms, and the bodies, which we have been
studying this winter.
You remember that the ancient Greeks and Romans had a
school which they called the Stoic, from the Stoa Poikile or
Painted Porch, in Athens, Where the Stoic teachers taught. This
school was founded by Zeno of Citium, in the Island of Cyprus, at
about the end of the fourth century before our present era ; and
it formed at about the time of the downfall of the Roman Empire,
the religious science or scientific religion of the most advanced
thinkers of that era. There is no question that Zeno had been
initiated, probably in the Samothracian, as well as in the
Eleusinian, Mysteries; because we know that the doctrines that
he taught are not only practically identical as far as they go—•
please note the qualification— with our own, but there are
allusions and hints here and there scattered throughout these
teachings, which show us very plainly that these doctrines of
Stoicism did not originate with him, according to the views of the
modern scholars, but must have taken their origin in a far past,
in an antiquity originating far beyond anything of which history
has preserved annals.
Among the doctrines of Stoicism was that of the genesis or birth
of the elements of the Kosmos. Five were spoken of, and two
more were vaguely hinted at. The five were JEther, beginning
with the highest; then what was called Fire ; then Air ; then
Water ; and then Earth. Now these kosmical elements are not
the familiar things which we know by those names, for they were
taken merely to symbolize, through certain appropriate qualities
which they possess, the actual Elements of Kosmical being.
Now these Elements of nature, which the Brahmanical
philosophy called the Tattwas,— which you will remember we
studied very briefly at our last meeting— may also be called the
Principles of Kosmos, precisely as man’s seven principles may be
called the elements of his being. We can say the elements of
Kosmos, or the principles of Kosmos; and it means for present
purposes the same thing; and we may say the elements of man
or the principles of man, and it means for present purposes
precisely the same thing. Seven different qualities or states or
conditions of Prakriti or nature— call it also substance or matter
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 367
for the present, if you like. The present is not an appropriate
time to go into a too detailed distinction of the difference— which
does exist— between matter and prakriti. At any rate, the
Elements are seven different states or conditions or qualities of
prakriti, the manifested side of kosmical being.
Now these seven Elements or Principles— five, as openly
taught— according to the Stoic philosophy were derived one from
the other, in order as follows : first the Nameless One ; second,
its progeny or offspring, or child, which is the second element
lower in the scale ; the third was ¿Ether, the progeny or offspring
of the second, combining in itself, at the same time, the qualities
or powers of the second, its parent, and of the first, its grand­
parent, so to say. Then came Fire, containing in itself the
elements of the three preceding, and also its own particular
swabhava or essential characteristic. You will remember what
Swabhdva means from our former studies of i t : it is the par­
ticularity, the essential nature, the real characteristic, of a thing,
which makes it different from some other thing. The swabhava
of a rose makes the rose-plant bring forth a rose always, and not
a lily or a violet; and the swabhava of a man brings forth as
offspring a man always and not a gooseberry or an acorn. This
is swabhava, or self-nature. Call it " individuality ” , if you like ;
it is the special or germinal individuality.
Then from Fire, as a parent, sprang Air. We are using these
familiar terms, with a warning, as said before, that they do not
really mean the familiar material things which we know by those
names. However, this Element called Air contains in itself the
qualities of its own nature, likewise those of fire, its parent, and of
aether, its grandparent, and the qualities of the second and the
first Elements as well. Then comes Water, containing in itself its
own qualities and also the qualities of the five which precede it.
Finally comes the seventh or last, gross matter, or concreted
substance, containing in itself the qualities of all the six which
precede i t ; each Element giving birth to each following one as
the Life-Wave ran its course down the Shadowy Arc of manifesta­
tion, or the building of the framework of the Kosmos.
Thus, said the Stoics, is the Kosmos built— enunciating an
exactly similar doctrine to our own, indeed, identical, as so far
outlined. Simply change the names : use gods, monads, souls,
atoms, bodies, or bearers, and add life-force, and the kosmical
Self as the first, and our seven kosmical Principles are there. Then,
said the Stoics (expressing here their doctrine in our own terms),
when the impulse of the evolutionary life-wave had reached its
ultimate cycle of descent, i.e., had reached its lowest point on the
Fourth Round, then began the period of ascent; and Water drew
into itself, as the Life-Wave advanced upward, Earth, and
368 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
mingled it with itself; and Air, following in turn, drew within
itself the Water containing the Earth, and mingled it with itself.
Then fire drew into itself the Air containing the two lower Elements
in itself; and the ¿Ether then in its turn drew into itself the Fire,
with its elemental containments ; and the Second Element,
counting downwards, drew into itself the ¿Ether ; and finally
the first, or Nameless One, then drew into itself the Second,
containing the elemental qualities of all the others: and then,
using the Stoic language, the “ tension ” of the divine Essence was
restored to its own quality and kind, as far as that Essence had
emanated a Life-Wave of innumerable living particles or Monads,
and there was repose and bliss and utter peace and ineffable rest,
until the cyclic time came for the next evolutionary outpouring
of the innumerable lives. This is, as seen, a doctrine precisely
similar to our own, as shown in the teaching setting forth the
evolution of lives during the Rounds of a Planetary Chain.
Descending along the Shadowy Arc into manifestation through
matter, the Life-Wave advances downwards until it reaches its
lowest cyclical point, then rises along the Luminous Arc until all
is withdrawn again into the Essence which sent it forth, or rather
from which it went forth ; individual experience gained, many
stages in evolution passed through, by every unit or Monad of the
Life-Wave which had come down into matter, for the purpose of
gaining soul-experience there, and incidentally giving to the
circumambient matter itself an upward impulse. For matter
is nothing but “ crystallized ” spirit; or, if you like, spirit is
etherealized matter; though the former statement is the better
way by far in which to express the fact.
Now, as pointed out in our last meeting, all this of course
happens in what is called space. Space is not a mere container or
receptacle of things, as our modern dictionaries define it, for in
that case it would be a thing finite in itself; and, as said before,
in such case we should have to find or conceive of a container to
contain the container, and so ad infinitum. But space is the
endless and beginningless Pleroma, Fullness, as the Greek
philosophers said: the Boundless All, the field of action of the
Universal Life, the endless and beginningless fullness. Space is
the vast, truly incalculable, aggregation of the innumerable
hierarchies forming manifested Being. We live and move and
have our being in Space, as the beings living in and upon the
atoms which compose our bodies, live in our bodies, which to
them is practically endless space, the illimitable Pleroma.
Break the molds of your minds; allow your thought to lead
you into the vast expanse of the universal consciousness which
these sublime ideas must open to you. Imagine, if you will,
please, that Life is endless ; that, as said before, throughout all
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 3<>9
runs the beating of the Universal H eart; and, furthermore, that
there is nothing great, nothing small, except by comparison,
except relatively so. We bring forward again here the thought
which we have often before expressed, an axiom which is one
of the fundamental truths of the Esoteric Wisdom, the Ancient
Wisdom of the olden times, and this fundamental truth or
principle is that 6f Relativity. Everything is relative ; there are
no absolutes anywhere, except relatively so ; there are no
“ jumping-off places ” ; there are no ultimates ; there are no
bounds beyond which the evolving spirit may not go. Every­
thing is related to everything else. How can a thinking man talk
of infinites, and at the same time speak of absolutes ? Why, the
very word " absolute ” , as pointed out in a former study, means
what the Hindu word Mukta means, released, free. “ Absolute ”
means released, unchained, unbound; freedom.
You remember that when Paul, the apostle of the Christians,
during one of his missionary journeys, spoke to the men of Athens
from Mars’ Hill, i.e., from the Areopagus, he used words which are
unquestionably, I think, the finest in the Christian New Testa­
ment, for they are purely pagan philosophy, and they are as
follows below. In addressing the men of Athens, he told them
that when he disembarked, on coming up to Athens he found an
altar dedicated to the “ Unknown God ”— to theb agnosto. Now
he must have disembarked at the old port of Phalerum, the port
of Athens which was used before (and after) the building of the
Piraeus. We know also, from the Greek historian and traveler,
Pausanias, in chapter one, book one, of his work, that there were
altars in that port dedicated to the " Unknown Gods Now this
word, translated into English as “ Unknown ” (“ agnostos ”),
means in Greek not so much “ unknown ” as “ unknowable ”—
unknown in the sense of unknowable ; unknown because it was
unknowable.
Now Paul, in speaking to the Athenians in his sermon to them,
used the following words, as given in the Christian writing,
“ Acts ” , chapter 17, verse 28. “ For in him we live, and move,
and have our being, as certain also of your own poets have said,
for we are also his offspring.” I may also point out in passing
that the Greek of this passage allows us to translate the Greek
word “ auto ” just as well “ it ” as “ him ” : " For in It we
move, and live, and have our being.” The Christians of modem
days, having in mind their personal, active, monotheistic deity,
in translating this passage naturally took the word as of the
masculine gender; but the neuter gender is grammatically correct
also and philosophically better by far.
Ay, Paul, the “ Christian ” (shall we so call him ? at any rate
he was an initiate), Paul, the " Wise master-builder ”, as he calls
370 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
himself, thus hinting at his esoteric affiliations, not only tells us
that in It we live and move and have our being, but makes
constantly reference to matters of initiation. The many mystical
allusions to various matters which occur throughout the writings
ascribed to him, show very plainly how far the Christianity of
today has wandered from its first founders.
Now these poets of whom Paul here speaks, ate unquestionably
the two famous Stoic philosophers, Aratus (a countryman, by the
way, of Paul, both he and Aratus being probably natives of
Tarsus in Cilicia) and Cleanthes of the Troad, who wrote, by the
way, one of the finest examples of Greek religious poems extant,
greatly admired even by Christian writers, because they believe
they see in it what they would probably call a nascent monotheism,
in the Christian sense ! But it was simply a hymn of reverence
to the Stoic Divine Essence, the Hierarch of the grand Hierarchy
of our universe, its supreme head, which in the poem Cleanthes
called " Zeus ” . Please always remember that though Zeus may
be called the Supreme Hierarch of a Universe, or Kosmos, or
Hierarchy, he is but the Head of one of innumerable other similar
hierarchies, hierarchies of the vast aggregate, endless and
beginningless, which compose manifested Being.
Now, in him— in It— we live, and move, and have our being.
And this It, is what we very rightly call Space, which is the vast,
endless and beginningless congeries of living beings. There is no
vacuum, no vacuity, no emptiness, no “ nothing ” , anywhere.
Everything is full, not merely of life, but of living and conscious
things, and of beings of infinitely varying degrees of consciousness,
such as you and I are, for example. Think of i t ! Open your
minds, and let the thoughts which this divine idea gives to you,
stream in. Let them find a habitation in your souls I They bring
endless comfort and peace, and lead to further illumination.
Yea, verily, such is Space, seven-fold Space, more particularly
the vast spaces of Space inwards, inwards, inwards, endlessly.
In opening our more particular study for this evening, after
having thus for the time being finished our study left incomplete
at our last meeting, let us read from The Secret Doctrine, Volume II,
page 492, the second paragraph:
The Secret Doctrine points out, as a self-evident fact, that Mankind,
collectively and individually, is, with all manifested nature, the vehicle
(a) of the breath of One Universal Principle, in its primal differentia­
tion ; and (b) of the countless " breaths ” proceeding from that One
Breathin its secondary and further differentiations, as Nature with its
many m an kin d s proceeds downwards toward the planes that are ever
increasing in materiality. The primary Breath informs the higher
Hierarchies ; the secondary— the lower, on the constantly descending
planes.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 371
A wonderful passage ! Note particularly the reference to the
" many mankinds ” , concerning which matter we shall speak
at greater length in a future study.
Now during our last study we traced very briefly the evolution
from a god (one of infinite multitudes of divinities,— call them
“ gods ” , we will not quibble about names— ) of other multitudes
of inferior beings; of monads springing from that god and
forming its luminous garment, its vehicle, its carrier, its bearer,
its body. Each one of those innumerable multitudes of monads,
in its turn, sends forth from itself, projects from itself, other
innumerable multitudes of souls, which form its garment, its
bearer, its carrier, its vehicle, its body. Again, every one of such
souls in its turn sends forth from itself other innumerable multi­
tudes of atoms, pranic-astral entities— not the physical atom of
science, please— and these atoms form the garment, the carrier,
the vehicle, the bearer, the body of such a soul.
Each one of these atoms, in its turn, concretes around itself,
gathers to itself, the life-atoms waiting over for it from previous
cycles of activity, which are the skandhas belonging to that plane
of manifestation, and thus forms its physical vehicle, in which all
the other principles (mostly latent) reside.
Now this vast collection of entities : gods, monads, souls, atoms,
passed down through the kosmical Elements which we have
described, using the Stoic formulae rather than the Bralimanic
which are not so well known to European readers, but which
equally well could have been used ; and as these courses of life, as
this life-wave, travels downwards into matter, through each
element, through each one of the seven elements, it gives birth to
one class of these entities which we have been describing. The
god lives on the plane of the Nameless One ; the monads live on
the plane of the second Element, likewise unnamed in the
literature of the ancients ; the souls live on the plane of /Ether,
akaia ; and the atoms live on the plane of Air, the fourth plane,
the pranic-astral world.
Thus, the Elements of the Stoics, seven in number, but only
five openly named, form the principles of nature ; and the life-
wave in passing through these Elements, builds its appropriate
habitations in each one of them. At certain appropriate planes,
these habitations take the form of globes, and these globes are the
seven forming our planetary chain ; they are globes built of these
innumerable, multitudinous hosts of atoms, of souls, of monads ;
some " awakened ” , some partly “ awake ” , some still sleeping in
the lower spheres.
Then when the hosts of beings composing the life-wave— the
life-wave being composed of the entities derived from a former
but now dead planet— in our case the moon— find that the time
372 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
has arrived for them to enter upon their own particular evolu­
tionary course, they cycle downwards along the planetary chain
that has been prepared for them by the three hosts of elementary
beings, of the three primordial elementary worlds, the forerunners
of the life-wave yet integral parts of it. Remember, a hierarchy
consists of ten degrees or states; three, as the Pythagoreans
would have said, remaining in the silence and darkness— to us—
of divinity, and seven entering into manifestation. This life-wave
passes seven times in all around the seven spheres of our planetary
chain, at first cycling down the Shadowy Arc through all the seven
Elements of the Kosmos, gathering experience in each one of
them ; each particular entity of the life-wave, no matter what its
grade or kind, spiritual, psychic, astral, mental, divine, in it,
advancing, advancing, advancing downwards, advancing until
at the bottom of the Arc, when the middle of the Fourth Round is
attained, they feel the end of the downward impulse. Then begins
the upward impulse. According to the Stoic doctrine, everything
passes by degrees back towards the divine, through the Elements
again, the lower being withdrawn into the higher, until at last
the great cyclic round is finished, and the cycling beings re-enter
divinity, man being in the front ranks. As so often said before,
" Man ” begins his evolutionary journey an un-self-conscious god-
spark, and ends it as a self-conscious god.
And when we say “ man ” of the later stages of that journey,
we mean the thinking entity. The personal, by that time, will have
become the impersonal: the mortal will have been raised into
immortality. These two ideas which our Teacher has included
among others in her beautiful Invocation, comprise two of the
most sublime teachings of the Ancient Wisdom, which we have
but briefly alluded to at various times, but which we shall have
to study more fully at some future time. The main thing to
realize at the present time is that Space is a vast, beginningless
and endless Fullness ; it is the Boundless A ll; and, further, that
it is composed of the numberless Hierarchies, which actually are
Space itself, the spaces of Space; and, still further, that these
Hierarchies in their turn are composed of incalculable numbers
of evolving beings in all the seven stages of development; and
that each such being has its own Grand Cycle to perform ! first
down the Shadowy Arc, and then when the end of that particular
evolutionary wave or course has been reached, the reascent along
the Luminous Arc upwards, towards the Source from which it
originally came. Then, finally, the long pralayic sleep. At its
end, comes the kosmic re-awakening, obeying the karmic impulses
from the preceding manvantara and manvantaras, the opening
of a new evolutionary course through the spheres of Life, but on
higher and far sublimer levels than before.
C H A P T E R X X X I V
THE SPACES OF SPACE. THE SECRET DOCTRINE, A UNIFIER *
.
UNIVERSAL KEYS. DOCTRINES OF “ THE VOID *’ AND OF
" THE FULLNESS ” CONTRASTED.
Mme. Blavatsky, speaking on this subject in her Secret Doctrine, quotes from
the old Book of Dzyan thus :
“ An army of the Sons of Light stands at each angle, the Lipika in the middle
wheel."
The four angles are the four quarters, and the “ middle wheel " is the center
of space ; and that center is everywhere, because as space is illimitable, the
center of it must be wherever the cognizing consciousness is. And the same
author, using the Disciple's Catechism, writes :
" What is it that ever is ? Space, the Anup&daka. What is it that ever was ?
The germ in the Root. What is it that is ever coming and going ? The great
Breath. Then there are three eternals ? No, the three are one. That which
ever is is one ; that which ever was is one ; that which is ever being and becoming
is also one ; and this is Space."
In this parentless and eternal space is the wheel in the center where the
Lipika are, of whom I cannot speak ; at the four angles are the Dhy&n-Chohans,
and doing their will among men on this earth are the Adepts— the Mah&tmas.
The harmony of the spheres is the voice of the Law, and that voice is obeyed
alike by the Dhydn-Chohan and the Mahdtma— on their part with willingness,
because they are the law ; on the part of men and creatures because they are
bound by the adamantine chains of the law which they do not understand.
Echoes from the Orient (W. Q. Judge), ch. vi. p. 15.
Thou hast to study the voidness of the seeming full, the fullness of the
seeming void.
Voice of the Silence, " The Seven Portals," selected
and annotated by H. P. Blavatsky.
I
N opening our stu dy tonight, let us again read the passage
on page 492 o f the second volum e of T h e S ecr et D o c tr in e ,
read at our last m eeting :
T h e Secret D octrin e points out, as a self-evident fact, that Mankind,
collectively and individually, is, with all manifested nature, the vehicle
(a) of the breath of One Universal Principle, in its primal differentiation;
and (b) of the countless “ breaths ” proceeding from that One B r e a t h in
its secondary and further differentiations, as Nature with its many
m a n kin d s proceeds downwards toward the planes that are ever in­
creasing in materiality. The primary Breath informs the higher
Hierarchies ; the secondary— the lower, on the constantly descending
planes.
W e have here in brief com pass n ot on ly the outline o f the hier­
archical teaching, bu t also o f the entire building o f the K osm os,
w hich, repeated in the sm all, m eans likewise the building of the
m icrocosm or m an.
N ow , this evening w e are going to advance a step farther. Y o u
373
374 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
will remember that at our last meeting we discussed, more or
less briefly on account of the shortness of the time, the question of
the nature of Space, and what Space was, and what Space was
not. We endeavored to point out that “ space ” , in the ordinary
conception of things, means a receptacle or a container, in other
words, it usually means place. Space is used almost synony­
mously with place ; but this is not the use which is authorized or
taught in the esoteric teachings, wherein it is shown that Space
is the illimitable series of Hierarchies, which— do not merely
fill, but which— are the Boundless All, beginningless and endless ;
and that Space, as the old Greeks put it, was an endless fullness,
endless and beginningless, and they called it the Pleroma, or the
Fullness; one Universal Life, one Heart, so to say, pulsating or
beating throughout.
We also speak of— and please mark this carefully— the spaces
of Space, the inwards of Space, the inward parts, bearing to
Space the same relation that man’s own inner principles bear to
his outer vehicle.
Now then, tonight we are going to execute an apparently
complete right-about-face; after thus having pointed out in
former studies what Space was considered to be in certain branches
of the Ancient Wisdom, as among the Stoics, and among the
Brahmans, and in other schools of thought alluded to merely,
we shall now take up very briefly likewise the manner in which
Space is looked upon more particularly by our own Esoteric
School, and especially by the holders of the esoteric doctrines of
Gautama the Buddha.
We are now going to say, and prove, that the Secret Doctrine
of the ages is above everything else a unifier ; that, as said in the
beginning of these studies which our Teacher has given us the
privilege to participate in, we are learning, we are beginning to
understand, a series of doctrines which give us the keys to the
great religions of the past ages ; and that these keys are universal
in their proper application, each depending solely upon the inner
capacities of the individual as to how much he may gain by
turning a key once around, or twice, or three times, mayhap even
seven times.
There is a doctrine of the northern Buddhism— and we are going
to choose it in order to illustrate the esoteric teachings regarding
Space— called the Doctrine of the Void, the Doctrine of the
Empty, likewise found in other schools in past times, such as
were illustrated by the Greek Atomists, Democritus, Leucippus,
and Epicurus, and by the great Roman poet Lucretius; and
even spoken of by some of the Stoical philosophers, who otherwise
taught the Doctrine of the Fullness. We have an illustration
here that may be a lesson to us, as will appear later on this
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 375
evening, that things which may seem to be or form a contra­
diction in The Secret Doctrine or elsewhere in our teachings, are
not really contradictions, though they may be paradoxes. A
paradox, please understand, is a statement which appears to be
or contain a contradiction, but which actually is not one.
Now the word used in the Buddhist Sanskrit writings to describe
this Emptiness is iSfinyata. Sfinya means empty or void. The td
is the same grammatical suffix in Sanskrit as tas is in the Latin,
unitas, trinitas, vacuitas, and is found in English as the ty in
eternity, or unity, or vacuity, and so forth: therefore Sfinyata
is to be translated vacuity.
These Buddhist philosophers teach that the only reality, the
only fundamental thing, so to say, of Being, is the Illimitable
Void. From it in the beginning, or in time, springs forth a
Kosmos, or spring forth the universes; and to it they return
when their cycle of manifestation is ended. This Doctrine of the
Void— please mark— is of a far more spiritual nature than the
Doctrine of the Fullness. It is much more difficult to understand
than the latter, because our European minds are not trained to
the thinking required easily to understand thoughts such as these.
We can much more easily, much more quickly, comprehend and
understand the fullness of things, than we can the thought that
out from the illimitable and perfect void, spring into life all the
infinite manifestations of Kosmic being ; and that back into the
void they sink again when their life-cycle is run. In other words,
our European minds find it easier to understand the mystical and
the religious rather than the truly philosophic and the truly
scientific. Yet this Doctrine of the Void was taught by the
grandest intellect, the most titanic spiritual power, known to
mankind in the annals of recorded and unrecorded history, I
mean by him whom we call the Lord Buddha, in other words
Gautama— Sakyamuni.
This does not mean that we are Buddhists, as has been pointed
out before in former studies ; but the doctrines which the Buddha
taught are also ours, when we apply to them the key which we
have. You will remember that two kinds of doctrine were taught
by the Buddha, i.e., the Doctrine of the Eye, very faithfully
preserved by the southern school of Ceylon, Burma, Siam, and
so forth; and what is called the Doctrine of the Heart, that is,
the hid doctrine, the Mystery-doctrine; respectively so called
because the eye can see outward or visible things ; but the heart
is not seen, and in it, according to the old thought, flow the
fountains of life. This Doctrine of the Heart is the Esoteric
Wisdom, the unseen part of the teaching, its Core or Heart, that
which is not given out to all.
Practically all the religions and philosophies of the Occident,
376 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
even in Greek and Roman times, have preferred to demonstrate
their tenets on the background, or on the foundation, of the
Doctrine of the Fullness ; i.e., that the universe is infinitely full,
and that this fullness is composed of infinite multitudes of beings.
Now that doctrine is true— we repeat it, repeat it emphatically;
but likewise is truer still the Doctrine of the Void. No contra­
diction exists here, as will be shown.
What do we mean when we speak of the Void, then ? We
must touch upon this very briefly, because our limited time
obliges us to pass on to other subjects; but the Doctrine of the
Void means, or rather can be illustrated by, two things. When we
look into what people popularly call the infinitudes of space, what
do we see ? We see what to us is emptiness. But, as pointed
out in a former study, this so-called ether (these ethery spaces),
even according to the theories recently taught by our modern
scientists, is more rigid than steel, denser than our densest
matter; and, as pointed out in a former study, the hard and
dense material stuff that we know on this earth, the hard rocks,
the harder metals, etc., are like floating foam, foamy bubbles,
holes, as it were, floating in and on the infinite vast expanses of
the Kosmic void.
The other way by which to approach our subject is the follow­
ing : What is that which is not matter ? Spirit. Can you put
spirit into a container ? Can it be encompassed or measured ?
No. Why not ? Because it cannot be contained, in our sense of
the word. It, to us, is emptiness, void. It is that which infills the
vast ethery spaces, and it is merely the feebleness of our senses
and the weakness of our understanding causing us to live in the
external, which make us foolishly to believe that this which we
see is the real, and that the so-called ethery spaces are unreal or
empty in the popular sense.
The Void then, is the higher planes of the Boundless A ll; that
which to us is void, and which therefore was so expressed by the
ancient philosophers; teaching as they did the usual sort of
men, they used simple language so that men could more easily
understand ; just exactly as in the case of the much misunder­
stood geocentric system so much mocked at by our wise modern
natural philosophers. And yet, is it not true that every point in
Space is its center ? Why, the idea is a common thought among
thinking men. Even the rather orthodox French philosopher
Pascal, copying an ancient Greek figure of expression, says that
space or infinity is that which has its center everywhere, and its
circumference nowhere.
Naturally, then, the Ancients looked upon our earth as the
center of Space, and so would the inhabitants of Venus, or of
Mars, or of Jupiter, or of the Moon, or of the Sun, or of any other
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 377
body or point in space. They spoke and taught anthropocentric­
ally, as pointed out in one of our earlier studies, i.e., from the
human standpoint of comprehension.
And likewise— and this is a passing thought— when our own
ancient esoteric philosophers spoke of the planets, spoke of
Venus, or of Mars, for instance, as a “ constellation ", they
knew perfectly well what they were saying, and they did not
speak in ignorance. Why did they speak of a planet as a “ con­
stellation ” , which in ordinary astronomical terminology or
parlance means a collection or a gathering of stars ? Why,
because every one of the visible planets we see is but one of seven,
six of them invisible to our physical eyes; the seven forming a
" Planetary Chain ” . And, furthermore, these planetary chains
are composed of seven distinct and separate globular bodies,
forming, to the eye of the seer, a true constellation ; and further­
more still, each one of these seven globes has fourteen different
lokas (or rather seven lokas and seven talas) or “ worlds ” ,
attached to it, making thus, counting all the seven globes, forty-
nine “ worlds ” or planes or lokas and forty-nine talas. As hinted
at in our former two or three studies, where we spoke of the
Life-Wave coming down and passing through the seven Elements
of Nature, we implied that the Life-Wave formed and built in
each one of the seven Elements its appropriate habitat or habita­
tion. Each one of these seven globes or spheres is built for the
development of one of the seven principles of m an; and each
one of these seven globes has its own seven sub-principles or
sub-elements to boot; precisely as the interior nature of man has
built corresponding ufddhis or vehicles as his own seven sub­
principles in each one of his seven greater principles, therefore 49 ;
and as each principle is bipolar, there are 49x2=98 conditions
or states all told. Each principle of Kosmos or of man must
have its chance for manifestation in its own “ home ” , or Element,
in its own vibratory surroundings, in its own particular magnetic
sphere ; and a proper understanding of all this can be obtained
in no other way than by following the hierarchical evolutionary
course of the great titanic intellects and spirits which govern
our kosmos.
The Doctrine of the Void, then, is actually identic with the
Doctrine of the Fullness. There is a distinction, however, and
the distinction is, as pointed out, that the Doctrine of the Void
is the more spiritual of the two, and treats of the upper or superior
nature of the Kosmos ; of the inwards and the yet more inwards
and of the still more inwards, infinitely, of the spaces of Space.
Whereas the Doctrine of the Fullness treats of the Kosmoi, the
Kosmoses, as they are in manifestation. But the same thought,
precisely the same idea, lies back of both doctrines.
378 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
This opens the avenue for a further brief explanation of what
was pointed out in our last study or two. Some perhaps may
have thought that there was a radical difference between the
principles of man and the elements of man, or the Principles of
Space and the Elements of Space. The difference is not radical,
it does not go to the root of the case. But there is a distinction.
Fundamentally the elements and the principles are one. As
explained before, force and matter are essentially one. Spirit
and substance are essentially one. Spirit may be called ethereal-
ized matter, or matter crystallized spirit; but the latter is the
better form of expression ; it is permissible to make a distinction
between a force and its material vehicle, its material self, so to
say.
The seven great Elements of the Kosmos are the vehicles of the
seven great Forces of the Kosmos ; and those seven great Forces
are the Principles of the Kosmos ; hence, the seven great Elements
in which they work are the vehicles of the Kosmic Principles.
The Principles are the energy-consciousness side, and the Ele­
ments are the matter-prakriti side of being. There is the sole
distinction. But, as said, there is no radical difference between
them. It is rather a distinction of states or conditions. A force,
however spiritual it may be, is matter to a still higher force.
Matter concreted, as we may think it to be, is force to a matter
inferior to it. The explanation of the paradox lies in pointing
out the relationship of the planes of being each to each, as these
work, or are worked upon, in the great Kosmic Void-Fullness.
We would like to point out further that in speaking of principles
and elements as is here done— the seven principles and elements
of man may be instanced— the teaching as above given is accurate
in every particular. The point to remember is that these so-called
seven “ principles ” of man or of the Kosmos, considered as
descriptive words, are generalizing terms. You could not, for
instance, separate man into seven naturally distinct pieces and
lock each piece into a separate receptacle. And why ? Because
these seven principles are to be thought of much as if we were to
speak of consciousness and force and matter and energy and
element, etc. They are generalizing terms. They are the con­
sciousness-substance, the matter-force, of the Boundless All in
which man " moves, and lives, and has his being ” . Great
intellects of the past have analysed this matter-force or spirit-
substance and have shown that it consists in manifestation of
seven apparently discrete, seven separate, parts, which yet
essentially are one— the One Life, universal and boundless. They
are, first, the Self; then the vehicle of the Self, the vehicle or
fountain of pure impersonal individuality. Then, third, the
capacity for personal or limited thought, egoity; then the
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 379
principle of " hate and love ” or " attraction and repulsion ” in
the Kosmos or in man, called Kama. Then the vitality or life-
principle, derived directly from the first; and then the astral
and physical bodies, vehicles.
Now you see that these are general principles of being. But
when we undertake to analyse man more particularly, for pur­
poses of accurate esoteric study, we shall find, when we come to
that part of our investigations, that we shall have to be far more
particular in the terms we use if we are to get a proper under­
standing of what man is, how he is built, his relationship to other
beings in the Kosmos, why he evolves as he does, and his final
destiny. The greatest questions of the spirit-side of nature, the
greatest questions of psychology, the great problem of psycho­
physical evolution, are bound up in just this thought that we have
here enunciated.
Our time is so short at any one of our meetings that we can do
little more in that time than briefly hint at certain things, taking
them up at later meetings for further consideration. But mark
you— it is better so. Such was always the method of the ancient
schools. Never did they teach according to our modern boasted
system of turning and twisting and hammering at a subject until
the life went out of it, and the brains of their pupils wearied and
became set in mental molds. This brain-mind method has no
element of inspiration in it whatsoever. That method cripples
the thinking entity. On the contrary, the ancient teaching was
by proper suggestion, making the disciple to do his thinking for
himself, on a hint or at an allusion, making his mind to catch the
holy fires of inspiration, so that he should lighten up his own
inner temple with the thoughts that his own divine monad
infused or inspired into him. Parables, hints, suggestions, were
the Teacher’s method ; and then always, at a later date, catching
up the thought again, opening the door a little wider, raising the
“ Veil of Isis ” a trifle more ; rendering help in this manner.
Thus, then, we have seen that the elements and the principles
are essentially one, dual only in manifestation. We have seen
that the principles of nature and of man are the energy-con­
sciousness side of nature and of m an; and that the elements in
the Kosmos or in man are the matter-prakriti side of nature and of
man. But remember always that force and matter, spirit and
substance, consciousness and its vehicle or upddhi, are essentially
one. As said before, a force or a spiritual energy is concreted
matter to another one diviner than i t ; and the concreted matter
of our plane is a whirling cyclone of force to the matter inferior to
it. A fact, this, which even our modern scientists are beginning to
realize, as shown in their teaching of the whirling electrons, tiny
bodies, whirling in the molecular aggregate called the physical
380 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
atom— a miniature solar system, they say. A true thought that,
and inspired. Inspired by what, or whom ? God ? No. We
know whence comes the inspiration leading to such thoughts as
these : partly from our own teaching as it is given out by
H. P. Blavatsky, and partly from more direct though perhaps
invisible and unknown human help from our Elder Brothers.
Our Teacher has told us this before. Here is the application, an
instance, of the fact.
Remember that SfinyatS., called the Doctrine of the Void,
refers to the spiritual side of being; and that the Doctrine of
the Pleroma, the Doctrine of the Fullness, refers to the matter-
prakriti side of being, the side of manifestation, which passes
away when the great manvantara is finished.
But remember also, as said several times already this evening,
that when we speak of substance or of spirit, of force or of matter,
of purusha or of prakriti—to use the Brahmanical Sankhya terms
— it is only by way of voicing the things which we have learned
through our various inner faculties and outer senses about the
Kosmos, and that fundamentally these respective pairs are one.
Spirit and substance or matter are one, and both will sink back
again into the vast illimitable Void of the Unbounded Divinity
when the time of Universal Pralaya comes. Remember the
ancient mystic saying, so often quoted in our own school, that the
disciple should learn to know the meaning of the statement:
the “ fullness of the seeming void, and the voidness of the seeming
full ” .
Now, this “ seeming full ” of matter is truly Sunya, emptiness,
mostly holes, so to say. Sfinya is the ancient Brahmanical
doctrine of mdyd, a doctrine of the Hindfi Veddnta, called the
“ end of the Veda ” , because it is claimed to be the perfection or
end of the teaching concerning the esoteric side of the Vedic
poems. Maya means “ illusion ” . Not that the manifested
kosmos does not exist. It does exist, or it could not be or provide
an illusion. The illusion consists in not properly understanding
it. Why, if matter or substance (or nature, prakriti) did not
exist, you might as well say that spirit does not exist, because
they are fundamentally one. The truth is that matter is not the
substantial, infinite element, the essence of reality, which our
Western minds— untaught and undisciplined in these ideas—
think it is, merely because it seems solid to us, and therefore
“ real ” . It is illusion because it is deceptive ; and actually, as
the Buddhists taught, thereby teaching the same thought as the
Brahmanical Adwaita Vedanta, ¿finyata is the doctrine of
emptiness, of the elemental vacuity of the Manifested Universe,
and hence is the doctrine of maya, illusion: illusory because
unreal.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 381
Even the modern natural philosophers, the physicists, the
chemists, now are beginning to understand that this so-called
apparent universe is mostly vacuity. They have never yet been
able to find out what matter really is ; it is a figment of the
scientific imagination, as commonly explained, and all they know
about it is simply what their own intuitions and scientific
deductions have told them : that back of the seeming, back of the
appearances, there is something concerning which they say—
and they should have credit for the frank and truthful acknow­
ledgment— " We are learning more about it. What it really is,
we do not know! ”
As a final thought tonight, let me point out that although
we have been speaking during recent meetings of the " gods,
monads, souls, atoms, bodies ” , which still form our present
subject of study, we have not yet finished it by any means ; we
have barely entered upon it. Using the term “ gods ” , we use
a term which is familiar. It is a good term, a truthful term ; there
is no reason to reject i t ; but yet it is not the term used in our
own esoteric system. Our own esoteric Tibetan teachings use for
it the expression Dhydni-Buddhas, and the lower side of the god-
plane where they belong is occupied by the Dhydni-Chohans.
Dhyani, a Sanskrit word adopted into the Tibetan terminology,
means " meditation ” or " contemplation ” ; therefore the
former expression means Buddhas of Meditation or of Con­
templation ; and the latter means Lords of Contemplation or of
Meditation. The latter term, however, is not infrequently used
to include both classes. In the Mystic Greek system, these gods,
these Dhyani-Buddhas, were called logoi, logoses. The word
“ logos ” is a Greek vocable meaning Word. It also has a
derivative meaning, given as reason. Why ? Because the Greek
philosophers saw that when a man thinks and desires to express
his thought, to convey the thought to another, he must use
words. The word is the carrier of the thought over to another mind:
and from this simple illustration the word logos, meaning “ word ” ,
was adopted into the philosophic language and into the religious
language (and later into Christianity), meaning that power or
energy or entity which carries the divine thought over to lower
planes : carried over from the plane above or behind it, from the
intellect or mind behind it, from the consciousness behind it, to
lower planes; in our case, the monads occupy this second or
lower plane.
In conclusion, I desire to translate from the original Greek
the first five verses of the Christian gospel ascribed to the disciple
whom Jesus is said to have especially loved, John, called “ John
the Divine ” , “ divine ” meaning here " theologian ” . He was
thus called “ theologian ” , we must suppose, because he was
2c
382 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
the only one of the four writers of the four accepted Gospels who
wrote anything resembling in style or in matter the fine, lofty,
theological teachings belonging to the neo-Platonic or neo-
Pythagorean school— an unintended compliment to the latter.
These quasi-pagan teachings are found in the first part only of the
“ Gospel according to John They are as follows— and I would
that I had time more fully to explain them than the necessarily
brief commentary on them that I can make this evening.
Verse I.
“ In the beginning was the logos, and the logos was towards
god, and the logos was god.”
Verse II.
" This [the logos] was in the beginning towards god.”
(I am making my own translation, if you please. The so-called
" Authorized Version ” is a literary farce, translated to suit the
monotheistic prejudices of the Christian exegetcs; and the
" Revised Version ” is no better.)
Verse III.
" All things were generated through it. . . .” (The Greek
word egeneto, here translated “ generated ” , could likewise be
translated " came into being ” . The English word " generated ”
itself comes from the same Aryan root. I read again) :
“ All things were generated through it, and without it not a
single thing was generated [came into being].”
Verse IV.
“ That which was generated in it was life, and the life was the
light of men.”
Verse V.
“ And the light shines in the shadow, and the shadow took it
not up.”
Don’t you see our teachings alluded to there ? Why, the very
words used in the ancient doctrine, ay, even from the Book of
Dzyan, the " spirit and its wing ” , the ” wing and its shadow ” .
” Shadow ” is an ancient mystery-term meaning vehicle or
body ; as was pointed out in a quotation by me in a recent study,
read from the Desatir, chapter called The Book of Shet, the Prophet
Zirtusht, or Zoroaster. There the word shadow was used in
exactly the same sense.
Note the thought here; in the beginning of our manifested
universe existed the logos, being the first entity or thing brought
into manifestation in the beginning; and this logos was towards
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 383
god. The Greek word here translated " towards ”, is pros,
meaning motion towards a thing. Of course, the logos sprang
from the spirit divine, “ god ” , but the attempt here in this gospel
is to emphasize the thought that its natural aspirations were
towards its parent-fountain. A great secret of Occultism lies in
this thought. ” As a man thinketh, so is he ” , says in substance
a Hebrew writing, Proverbs, thereby uttering a profound truth.
Man follows infallibly the bent of his nature, his desire. He is
magnetically drawn towards that which his heart longs for, and
that which he wants he gets ; if he wants “ heaven ” he will get i t ;
and if he wants hell, he will be magnetically drawn to spheres
infernal. This, in brief expression, is an outline of the whole
mystery of so-called “ karmic fruits”, of “ heaven" and of
“ hell ”— and much more which we must here leave unsaid.
“ And the logos was towards god ”— aspiring towards its own
divine Source; and this “ god ” was Swabhavat, “ Father-
Mother ” ; not Swabhava, which is an entirely different thing.
As pointed out before, Swabhavat is what certain Asiatic and
other schools call “ Father-Mother ” , the Great Vacuity, Sunya,
the Great Emptiness, AkaSa in Hindfi writings; which is the
Great Void to us, but the Great Fullness in another sense. What
we call the Great Fullness is the manifested universe flowing
forth in wondrous procession from the Void, or Swabhavat, or
“ Father-Mother ”, or Maliasunya, or AkaSa, various names for
the same thing.
Verse II. “ This was in the beginning towards god.” So
anxious was the writer of this Gospel to point out that the logos
originated in the beginning, and that the aspiration of the logos
was towards its parent-source, that he must need repeat it once
again.
Verse III. “ All things were generated through it,” that is,
came into being through it. This shows that it is the demiurgus
or world-fashioner, which was in the writer’s mind, and this logos
is on the third lower plane only of manifestation, on the third
kosmic plane ; as we say, the third logos from above, which is the
manifest logos or the world-maker, the world-artificer. The writer
continues : “ And without it not a single thing was generated.”
So anxious, so desirous, was he to show that there was no creating
of souls or worlds or anything else by an extra-kosmic god, that
he has to point out again here that it was the logos, the Kosmic
Word, carrying its force down from its Parent, that from itself
generated things, cast them forth, projected them, evolved them,
exactly as we have been pointing out in our recent meetings as
being the course or method of manifestation. And these things
were the monads, the atoms, the souls, and all the rest.
The writer continues, changing the thought-type somewhat, for
384 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
fear that it w ill be thought that this generation o f the beings
on so high a plane is the m ere m atter and gross physical things
w hich we see around u s : “ T hat w hich was generated in it [in
the logos] was life ” — n ot stones, trees, stars, planets, etc., m en,
and other things, but life. A n d the life— m ark this— ” was the
light o f m en ” , the spiritual light illum inating m ankind ; in other
w ords, m an's higher nature, or verily our own, inner logos, our
ow n “ inner god ” , as I hear the Teacher call to m e to say— our
ow n inner Christos.
A n d this logos, the Third, or M anifest L ogos, is b u t the veh icle
o f a logos still higher than itself. D uring the processes o f genera­
ting or bringing forth all these things w hich are less than itself,
every single step brings forth light, for light is one o f the first
m anifestations o f the creative a ctivity— rem em ber, creation in its
original sense m eans formation. T his light o f the third K osm ic
plane is Daivtprakriti. W e borrow the w ord from the V edanta
o f H indústhán ; it means ” shining ” or “ divine prakriti ” , o f
w hich Akááa or Sw abhavat is the ” crow n ” . Sw abhavat or
Ákááa is the first m anifest kosm ic E lem ent or m anifestation o f
prakriti, or Essential N ature itself. R em em ber th at there are
seven N atures, one w ithin the o t h e r ; seven E le m e n ts; seven
kosm ic Forces. " A n d the life was the light o f m ankind ” — our
ow n higher nature.
And the last verse : “ A n d the light shines in the shadow ” —
w hich, as regards m an, is its vehicles or our higher m inds. " A n d
the shadow took it n ot u p ,” i.e., prim ordial m an had as yet
evolved no vehicle or m ind fit to " take it up ” or in.
This th ought here enables the w riter o f this G nostic gospel—
G nostic at least in the first part thereof— to introduce his sectarian
teachings : 44There was a m an w ho was sent from G od, w hose
nam e was J oh n ,” to preach the gospel o f Jesus Christ, the hum an
logos, the saviour o f m an. H e, Jesus Christ, was this light, w ho
" becam e flesh ” (!) and cam e into the w orld as the 0 light o f
m en ” . Pathetic ! A beautiful teaching o f the ancient M ystery-
religion from the beginning o f tim e, is here taken and adapted,
and applied— as p oin ted out in a previous stu dy— to a m ere
m ystery-figure, a m ere type-figure o f the ancient M ysteries. N ot
that Jesus d id not ever live ; a m an, a H ebrew rabbi if y ou like,
called Jesus, did live ; but the Christos o f w hom the Christian
gospels w rite, is a type-figure o f the M ysteries, bu t m uch and
sadly distorted.
C H A P T E R X X X V
OCCULTISM AND’ THE MYSTERY-SCHOOLS. SEVEN DEGREES OF
INITIATION ! MAN BECOMES A GOD. SEVEN KOSMIC PLANES :
OUR PLANETARY CHAIN OF SEVEN GLOBES ON THE FOUR
LOWER PLANES : THE PASSAGE OF THE LIFE-WAVE THERE­
THROUGH.
The world— meaning that of individual existences— is full of those latent
meanings and deep purposes which underlie all the phenomena of the Universe,
and Occult Sciences— i.e., reason elevated to supersensuous Wisdom— can alone
furnish the key wherewith to unlock them to the intellect. Believe me, there
comes a moment in the life of an adept, when the hardships he has passed through
are a thousandfold rewarded. In order to acquire further knowledge, he has no
more to go through a minute and slow process of investigation and comparison of
various objects, but is accorded an instantaneous, implicit insight into every first
truth. Having passed that stage of philosophy which maintains that all funda­
mental truths have sprung from a blind impulse— . . . ; the adept sees and
feels and lives in the very source of all fundamental truths— the Universal
Spiritual Essence of Nature, ¿iva the Creator, the Destroyer, and the Regenerator.
The Mahatma Letters, p. 241.
I say again then. It is he alone who has the love of humanity at heart, who
is capable of grasping thoroughly the idea of a regenerating practical Brother­
hood who is entitled to the possession of our secrets. He alone, such a man—
will never misuse liis powers, as there will be no fear that he should turn them
to selfish ends. A man who places not the good of mankind above his own good
is not worthy of becoming our chela— he is not worthy of becoming higher in
knowledge than his neighbour. Ibid., p. 252.
There is but one general law of life, but innumerable laws qualify and determine
the myriads of forms perceived and of sounds heard. Ibid., p. 255.
T
H E search for Truth is the noblest aim that m an can pur­
sue. The original principles o f B eing were uncovered ages
upon ages agone, and were co-ordin ated into a com plete
and m arvellous system . U pon that w onderful system as
a basis, the Teachers o f ancient tim es laid the foundations o f the
superstructures o f the various philosophic and religious system s
w hich have com e dow n to us in the w orld 's literatures as now
extant in the present day. These system s contain in greater or
less degree fundam ental truths o f being, the stu dy o f w hich in
our ow n tim e is called “ O ccultism ” — the Science o f the K osm os
and o f M an as a part th ereof ; telling us o f the origin, the nature,
and the destiny o f the universe and o f m an, a part thereof. The
M ystery-Schools o f an tiqu ity form ed the inner focus o f the
ancient thought, and the doctrines there studied were called the
" H eart-D octrin e ” , because th ey represented the doctrines that
383
386 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
were hid ; and the various philosophies that they expounded in
public were called the " Eye-Doctrine ” , because they were the
doctrines in exoteric phrasing of the things that were seen and
not the things that were hid. The Heart-Doctrine comprised the
solutions of the enigmas of being, and these solutions were put
forth in exoteric form under the guise of allegory and in mytho­
logical treatment, and formed the Eye-Doctrine, or the exoteric
religions or philosophies.
But all these ancient philosophies were founded on wonderful
and sublime truths, compared with which the philosophies of
modern Europe are mere verbiage, little more than fine words.
The doctrines comprised in Occultism treat, as said, of the real
nature, origin, and destiny of the Kosmos and Man. These
Mystery-Schools taught causal things, and their effects in life;
they taught of the most intimate and profound relations of the
elementary beings, whatever their degree in the Kosmos, to each
other. They taught man that the way to a complete understand­
ing of the mysteries of being, was by searching within ; that no
man could understand a truth properly which merely entered his
ears, without having developed in himself also first the capacity,
the inner faculty, of comprehension ; and it was the development
of this inner faculty of comprehension or understanding that was
the main aim of the schools of initiation.
The whole effort, then, of these initiating schools was to make
man know himself. Why ? Because the inmost essence of man
is rooted in the inmost essences of the universe, and by following
the small, age-old Path, as the Brahmanical Upanishads said,
which lies within man himself, and to which Jesus alluded when
he said “ I am the Way, the Truth, and the Light ”— by following
that small, old Path inwards, man could climb step by step
inwards or “ upwards ” , inwards and inwards for ever, con­
stantly expanding into greater fields of consciousness. And this
evolving of the inner man is achieved through the evocation of the
spiritual powers latent in man’s higher nature. It is, in fact, the
uniting man’s soul to his divine monad, his inner god.
As pointed out in former studies, three were the states, after the
fourth degree of initiation, which the initiant or candidate must
win :— first came the Theophanic Mystery, which is the appear­
ance at the solemn moment of initiation of man’s own inner god
to himself; and this holy presence was called by the Greeks
Theophany, " the appearance of a god ” ,— i.e., man’s own Higher
Self to himself. And while in the average candidate this sublime
moment of intellectual ecstasis and high vision lasted but a short
time, with further spiritual progress of the candidate the Theo­
phanic communion became more enduring and lasting, until finally,
ultimately, man knew himself, not merely as the offspring spiri-
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 387
tually of his own inner god, but as that inner god himself, in his
essential being.
That was the first step, the first realization. The second came
in what the Greeks called Theopneusty, which is a Greek compound
word meaning “ the inbreathing of a god ” , and in which man not
merely was conscious by inner senses, and outer senses even, of his
inner divinity, but he felt the inspiration flowing through his
intellectual and spiritual veins, as it were— felt the inbreathing
from his own inner god, and became, thus, inspired, the very word
" inspiration " meaning “ inbreathing ” , With the passing of
time and the greater purification of the soul-vehicle, which is man
himself, this inbreathing or inspiration became permanent.
Finally, there came at the seventh initiation the most sublime
mystery of all, called Theopathy by the Greeks, meaning " the
suffering a god ”— a technical term ; that is to say, not that the
god suffered, but that the initiant, the candidate, suffered himself
to become, abandoned himself fully to be, a truly selfless channel
of communication of his own inner god, his own Higher Self; he
became lost as it were in the greater Self of his own Higher Self.
This personal self became absorbed, transmuted ; and its lower
characteristics vanished away like a cloud before the sun ; and
with the passing of time and the greater cleansing of the vehicle,
the soul, the personal man, became blended utterly with his own
inner god. And that was Theopathy.
Now the various degrees of initiation, as pointed out before, in
the ancient Mystery-Schools, comprised, first, three degrees,
which were those of teaching. With the fourth began the personal
experience; that is to say, the teaching was continued, but in
addition to that the initiant, the candidate, was made to be, to
become, that which before he was taught of, told about; because
the only way utterly to know a thing, the only way utterly to
understand a thing, is to become it.
Ah, there is vastly more in this thought than appears on the
surface, and more than we have time this evening to enter into !
But let it remain in your minds. And the teaching was continued
with every step higher, up to the seventh, ay, even up to the tenth
degree. We stop at the seventh, because the three highest degrees
are far beyond our comprehension, and pertain only, we are told,
to the highest of our Masters.
Teaching continued even up to the seventh initiation, co-
ordinately with the self-experiencing, the self-becoming; and in
this way man not merely knew, but felt himself, realized that he
was, one with the Kosmos, not merely its offspring and child in a
detached manner, but verily, in every sense of the word, It Itself.
Then came the realization of that Kosmic Self, the Atman, that
which is the same in you and me, in every dweller on this globe,
388 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
and in every dweller in every one of the planetary or stellar bodies
in Space ; the feeling, the sense, the knowledge, “ I am That
which separates us is the feeling of " I am I ” , and " you areyow ” ;
and this is the action of the ego, egoism.
Yet, mystery of mysteries, know this : It is only through the
passing across of egoity into universality, that man becomes a
god. If there were not the egoic principle enlarged and purified
to contain it and to understand it, there could be no such thing
as the Hierarchy of Compassion, there could be no such thing as
the Luminous Arc. It remains with each one of us, with each
member of our Holy Order, so to live the life, so to purify his inner
sheaths of being, so to transmute his soul-essence, that they may
become fit channels of communication between his own inner god
and himself. When man has accomplished that, he becomes
omniscient for our Kosmic Hierarchy; omniscient, for all know­
ledge of it and in it is his. And why ? Because his essence of
consciousness, the egoic essence, has become united through his
own inner god with the universal plane, the atmic plane; and
knowledge and Wisdom then stream through him as the sun-rays
stream through the atmosphere.
We have read from The Secret Doctrine at three or four former
meetings a paragraph which we shall repeat tonight, in Volume II,
on page 492, as follows :
The Secret Doctrine points out, as a self-evident fact, that Mankind,
collectively and individually, is, with all manifested nature, the
vehicle (a) of the breath of One Universal Principle, in its primal
differentiation ; and (b) of the countless “ breaths ” proceeding from
that One Breath in its secondary and further differentiations, as
Nature with its many mankinds [please note that] proceeds downwards
toward the planes that are ever increasing in materiality. The primary
Breath informs the higher Hierarchies ; the secondary—the lower, on
the constantly descending planes.
We have there, comprised in brief compass as said before, the
entire outline of the study which we have been pursuing this
winter under our Teacher’s direction, specifically pointed out by
her to follow along this line ; and at a later moment this evening,
or perhaps at our next meeting, we shall go into this question of
the various mankinds spoken of. There is involved in this a great
and wondrous mystery. Let me merely say at the present
moment that the humanity of which we form a part on earth
to-day, that is to say, the particular life-wave which we call
mankind or humanity or human beings, is not the sole and only
life-stream of intelligent egos traversing the various rounds of
evolution on our Planetary Chain. There are six others, all
evolving contemporaneously with us, some ahead of us, and some
behind u s; and they are evolving in the various lokas or talas
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 389
which we shall try further to elucidate this evening. A most
difficult subject this, but one which we shall do our best to
explain, because it is absolutely necessary, even in small degree,
in order properly to understand the fundamental questions of the
evolution of the evolving ego. “ Evolution ” is a subject which
is interesting the world very much at the present time, and which
our scientists limit, of course, merely to the physical world, more
especially as concerns man and the beasts, which are two stirpes
(to use the Latin word) only of the vastly numerous families of
evolving beings, some ahead of us and some behind.
Now you will remember that at our last two or three meetings,
we spoke of the Principles and Elements of the Kosmos. The
Elements form thereof the vehicular, or bearer, or carrier-side ;
and the principles form the energy-consciousness side; and we
shall this evening limit our study (with mere allusions to human
elements and principles) to the Kosmic planes, because our
present endeavor is to get a clear picture, as clear as possible at
the present time, of what we mean when we speak of “ Kosmic
planes ” , of what we mean when we speak of the seven “ globes of
the planetary chain ” , and of what we mean when we speak of the
“ Rounds ” .
It is most interesting to note that these subjects, which so many
people have misunderstood to be merely interesting questions
for intellectual entertainment, are intimately involved with the
moral, and with the spiritual, nature of man ; and no man can
have a proper comprehension of ethics and morals, without under­
standing his proper place in the universe : his origin, his nature,
and his destiny. What morals need in Occidental thought is a
foundation based on science and philosophy. Morals are not
something which is ‘‘ up in the air ” ; they are not something
which man must merely live by— they are that, indeed, but they
are much more. The moral sense springs from man’s spiritual
consciousness, and no man— and we lay it down positively— can
really understand a Theosophical doctrine from the intellectual
standpoint only and without having the spiritual light upon it.
And that light, that spiritual light, manifests in man’s intellectual
realm of thought as his instinctive moral sense, that which the
great German philosopher Kant spoke of as the one thing which
held him firmly to the belief that our universe was something more
than mere force and matter.
Remember first, that, as pointed out in the old Hindi! Upani-
shads and in the several wonderful Brahmanical philosophies, in
ancient Greek thought, even in Christianity, and pre-eminently
in our own teachings— throughout the world, in fact, in the
various ancient philosophies and religions— when we speak of
divine things we must understand that we also are a part thereof,
390 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
and that even the physical world itself, the material world itself, is
but the garment of the Divine ; imperfect, because it is builded
by imperfect because evolving hierarchies, by imperfect entities, of
which we also are examples. Remember what Goethe says, in his
Faust, I think,
" Thus, at the roaring loom of Tim e I ply,
And weave for God the garment thou see'st H im b y .”
And as Paul, the Christian, said, “ In It we live and move and
have our being.”
Search into yourselves. The teachings given out in these
studies are the keys. Prove them ; examine the literatures of the
world; search all things; and, as Paul said (speaking as an
initiate), retain that which is good, retain that which you know
to be true.
Seven, then, as said before, are the Elements of Kosmos;
seven, then, are its Principles, working through those seven
Elements. From the consciousness-side they are consciousness
on the one hand, vehicle on the other. From the substantial side
they are force on the one hand and matter on the other. Let us
illustrate this first of all by seven horizontal, parallel lines, to
represent the Elements and Principles of Kosmos.
Intellectual or
Creative World
/C \ Pstral or
v * ) Formative World \r)
Physical(p) World
Please remember that this figure is a diagram. The Elements
the Principles, of the Kosmos are not really one above another,
like a series of steps, or like the rungs of a ladder. This figure is a
diagram only, that is, it is a symbol. The Elements of the Kosmos,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 391
the Principles of the Kosmos, the spheres of the Kosmos, are
within each other, the most spiritual being the inmost. But this
being impossible in representation on a plane surface, we have to
figurate the idea schematically, diagrammatically, paradigmatic-
ally. Therefore this figure merely shows first, that there are seven
planes in kosmos. Let us next represent the evolving and origin­
ating life forces, the gods and the intelligences of the three higher
planes, by a triangle, using the old Platonic and Pythagorean
symbol, a beautiful symbol, because it shows and suggests the
originating point, the kosmic point, the seed, from which all divine
things spring; and which shows the apex of the triangle also
vanishing, as it were, through the highest plane, through a laya-
center, a neutral center, a Nirvana of all things less or lower than it,
vanishing more inward into something higher. Exactly as a seed,
an acorn, for instance, will bring forth an oak, in its turn shedding
its harvest of acorns, so the Kosmic seed sends forth from itself
these hosts of Hierarchies of beings, themselves producing other
lower hosts on the downward scale. Let us then represent this
process by a triangle.
Now the four lower planes of the figure, which are the four
lower kosmic planes, please understand, represent all the states
that man can reach to in his present period of development. Our
own atmic essence springs forth from the fourth kosmic plane,
counting downwards. Further, let us next represent our planetary
chain in the following manner, that is to say, by inscribing circles,
seven of them, on these planes, two on each plane, with the
exception of the lowest plane, where we inscribe only one circle,
representing our own globe Terra. Then, we number these
circles respectively, beginning with the left and going downwards,
A, B, C, D ; and then going upwards E, F, and G. Please note
that there are two circles or globes on each plane, with the
exception of globe D, our own. These seven “ planes ” are
really the seven Kosmic Elements respectively.
Now it is extremely tempting to suppose, or to think, that each
one of these seven globes has a respective habitat or locus or
place on or in each one of the kosmic Elements, but it is not so.
That idea is what we call a “ false analogy ” , a tempting sugges­
tion leading the mind astray. On each plane there are two globes,
we repeat a third time, with the exception of the lowest plane on
which is globe D, which is our earth.
Now, then, when we speak of the seven “ Elements ” of the
Kosmos, we mean by " Elements ” exactly what the ancients
meant, which they described by verbal symbols. They spoke of
four usually, occasionally of five, and they were the same all over
the world— Earth, Water, Air, Fire ; sometimes a fifth, ¿Ether,
was mentioned; but these were certainly not the material earth,
392 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
water, air, or fire that we know. These things of earth were
chosen because they symbolized, by reason of certain attributes
inherent in them, the four planes or rather Elements of nature, on
which the seven globes of our Planetary Chain live and move and
have their being. We can say that Earth represented Kosmic
Matter, concreted substance, the lowest Element of a ll; and that
Water represented Chaos in the ancient sense; as the Hebrew
Bible puts it, the “ waters ” of space, over which brooded the
Elohim, the gods, mistranslated “ God ” . And we can say that
Air is Spirit. The very word spiritus in Latin means breath, wind,
air. And Fire is the symbol of Divine Light, the first emanation
of the Kosmic Logos, which we call, adopting the Sanskrit-
Buddhist term, “ Daivi-Prakriti ” , “ divine nature ” , “ divine
light ” , light being one of the first emanations in the beginning of
the evolutionary processional period.
Therefore, when we speak of Elements, we mean rather what
the average European mind understands by “ spheres of action ” ,
worlds: the world of kosmic matter, the world of chaos, the
spheres of spirit, and the world of the Divine Light or Daivi-
Prakriti.
The logoic world, which is to us the quasi-divine, the fourth
kosmic plane, counting downwards, comprising the planetary
globes A and G, let us then call the Archetypal World, and we so
write it in our diagram. The world beneath, comprising Globes B
and F, we will call the Intellectual or Creative World. The world
below that, comprising Globes C and E, we will call, if you please,
the Astral World or the Formative World. And the lowest
Element or World of all, on which our sole globe is, our planet
Terra, let us call the Physical World.
You will here recognise at once what we have stated before in
connexion with the doctrines of the Hebrew Qabbalah— the four
Worlds that it teaches of. Those of you who have studied the
Qabbalah may remember that its World of Emanations or
Archetypal World, is called Atziluth; then comes the second,
the world called Berxah, or Creative, following downwards ; and
then the third world, called the World of Formation, Yetzirah ;
and finally the fourth or material world, which the Qabbalists
called the world of shells, Qelippoth, our world, because it is that
of the most concreted matter, the shell holding all the others ; like
the shell of an egg, or the rind of a fruit, and so on, and also
meaning something else in connexion with Kama-Loka, but we
are not treating of that part of the subject tonight, and merely
mention it in passing. These Worlds are, of course, our four
Kosmic Elements.
Furthermore, please remember the next important thought.
Each one of these seven Kosmic Elements, counting from the
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 393
beginning, i.e., counting downwards, comprises in itself all the
others which preceded it, of which it is an emanation. For
instance, the first, the highest, emanates the second, below it, in
which it reflects itself, to boot; yet this second nevertheless has
its own Swabhava, to use the Sanskrit term, i.e., its own essential
nature or peculiar characteristic, but it also is the carrier or
vehicle of the one above it, as just said. Next, these two
emanate and reflect themselves into, the third, which yet has its
own essential nature, but nevertheless is the carrier or bearer of
those above i t ; and similarly with the fourth or lowest World
or Element.
Every atom, even of the physical world, has everything in it of
the Boundless Kosmos, latent or developed, as the case may be.
Note the optimistic trend of thought in this.
Now, then, these four lower Kosmic Elements or planes comprise
all of us, that is to say, all of us that we have so far developed. The
summit of the Archetypal or Fourth Kosmic plane, is the Element
where the laya-center of our atman is— our universal kosmic Self.
Through it stream the divine forces from above, which originate
or rather are our seven principles, our seven elements of being,
manifesting in the four lower Kosmic Elements which likewise
form the seven ranges of Prakriti or nature as we cognise them.
You will remember that every Kosmic Element in itself is sub­
divided into seven sub-Elements, i.e., seven degrees of Prakriti.
So far as we are concerned, the seven sub-degrees of Prakriti or
Nature on each one of these four lower Kosmic planes, comprise
the only degrees of Prakriti of which we can at the present time
have cognisance, because we have not yet evolved the faculties
within us necessary to cognise the higher ones.
Now, as a concluding thought tonight, you will remember from
reading the teachings that H. P. Blavatsky gave us in her wonder
work The Secret Doctrine, that the Life-Wave pursues an evolu­
tionary course through these seven globes, passing from Globe A
after finishing its evolutionary cycle on it, to Globe B, finishing
its cycle on B and passing to Globe C, finishing its cycle on it and
then passing on to Globe D, and so around the chain, making what
we call one “ Round ” .
But we must be cautious in these matters and avoid leaping to
conclusions. The above does not mean that only when everything
is finished or perfected on Globe A, we then jump to Globe B.
Not at all. Seven sub-life-waves evolve on Globe A. When the
lowest (or the mineral) on Globe A— remember that though it is a
spiritual planet, yet the “ mineral ” of that spiritual planet is as
dense and as gross to its inhabitants as our minerals are to us—
has finished its developmentfor that one Round, it feels the impact
or impulse of the incoming vegetable kingdom, and its surplus of
394 FUNDAMENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
life overflows into Globe B ; and when the beast-kingdom in its
turn impacts upon the vegetable, and when this latter has run
its sevenfold course, the vegetable then in its turn overflows into
Globe B downwards, and the mineral in B passes on to Globe C ;
and when the human world impulses into Globe A, then the beast-
world begins to come down into Globe B, the vegetable to pass
into C, the mineral into D, and so on. This is the process during
the first Round; but beginning with the second Round the process
changes somewhat its order. But we reserve this for future studies.
There is an overflow of the surplus life-forces, as it were, from
every kingdom into the next globe ; and this complicated process
is followed (but changed, beginning with Round No. 2) throughout
all the Rounds, throughout all the seven Globes. When Globe G,
or the seventh, is reached, there ensues for the Life-Wave a
Nirvana, answering to the Devachan or heaven-period between
two human incarnations on earth ; and also between each globe,
there is a smaller time or rest for the evolving Life-Wave.
Now this process alone is enough to set the minds of many
people in bewilderment. It seems so complicated ; in reality it
is very simple. It needs only a little honest thought to under­
stand it— half as much thought as most people give to the
material things of life: what shall I eat, what shall I put on, what
theatre shall I go to, how shall I make money, and so forth.
We have spoken of lokas and talas. We shall touch upon that
matter more fully at our next meeting. But remember this fact,
if you please, Comrades, at present: each one of these globes is
divided into fourteen different “ worlds I do not mean globes ;
I mean conditions or states of matter. For instance, water may be
ice or steam, and yet may be water. Suppose that you had to
explain to a man who had never seen ice, had seen merely water,
what ice is ; and after trying to do so he said : “ The man raves ;
he is trying to tell me that water, the most fluid of things, under
certain conditions may become cold stone
Secondly, when we say “ worlds ” (we have to use words in
order to give some idea of the meaning) we do not mean " globes ” .
A globe is Globe A, or B, or C, or D, or E, or F, or G ; but each
one of these globes comprises or has seven lokas, or “ places ” , or
worlds, or conditions, or states, or kinds, of matter— sub-worlds,
if you like; and also seven talas, making fourteen altogether.
Please remember also that these fourteen (or these twice seven)
worlds are not above each other like the steps in a stair. They are
within each other, one more inward than another, not exactly like
the skins of an onion, but each inner one is finer, more spiritual,
more ethereal, than its next outer; and the most ethereal, the
most spiritual of all, is the inmost.
Now these seven lokas on each globe are the fields of action of
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 395
the ascending sub-waves in the racial cycles: likewise, the
various kinds of bodies, ethereal or physical or spiritual, or
whatever else, that the race uses as it passes along the evolutionary
cycles, correspond in texture and senses with the various lokas
passed through, and the loka which the evolving entity senses is
that particular loka or world correspondent to its bodies. And the
talas are the same thing on the downward sub-waves of the racial
cycles. The lokas and talas are always working together, two
by two, one of each, because matter is bi-polar in manifestation on
the globes ; of the two (one loka and one tala) one is spiritually
positive, attracting one way, and the other is spiritually negative,
attracting the other way.
And, lastly, we point out that we are at the present time in one
of these lokas and in one of these talas; and that there are six
other humanities or life-waves evolving similarly to our own
course: intelligent, thinking beings on our planet— I do not
necessarily say on our Globe D— evolving through these lokas and
talas. How this thought stirs the imagination ! If this process
of evolution did not so take place, we say in conclusion, there could
be no completely logical and satisfactory explanation of the
phenomenon that the early writers upon Theosophical subjects
called “ Fifth Rounders ” and “ Sixth Rounders ” .
At our next meeting, the Teacher has instructed me to develop
this matter at greater length.
C H A P T E R X X X V I
INTERPENETRATING SPHERES OF BEING. LOKAS AND TALAS :
BI-POLAR KOSMICAL PRINCIPLES AND ÉLÉMENTS. THE
"H E R E S Y OF. SEPARATENESS ” .
All things are implicated with one another, and the bond is holy ; and there
is hardly anything unconnected with any other thing. For things have been
co-ordinated, and they combine to form the same universe [order]. For there
is one universe made up of all things, and one god who pervades all things, and
one substance, and one law [one] common reason in all intelligent animals, and
one truth ; if indeed there is also one perfection for all animals which are of the
same stock and participate in the same reason.
M . Aurelius Antoninus, vii, 9 (Long).
Nature has linked all parts of her Empire together by subtle threads of magnetic
sympathy, and there is a mutual correlation even between a star and a man.
Mahatma Letters, p. 267.
If through the Hall of Wisdom thou would’st reach the Vale of Bliss, Disciple,
close fast thy senses against the great dire heresy of Separateness that weans thee
from the rest.
The Voice of the Silence (H. P. Blavatsky).
I
N the Jew ish T alm ud there is a quaint old story full o f
the profou nd w isdom of the ancient teachers, abou t fou r
candidates for w isdom ; it tells h ow th ey entered into the
G arden o f D elights, a nam e w hich the Jew s used, especially
the Q abbalists, to designate the realm of O ccultism , o f the
O ccu lt Sciences ; and the nam es o f these four candidates for
W isdom were as follow s : B en A sai, B en Z om a, A hher, and
R a b b i A qiba. A s the story goes, “ B en A sai looked— and lost
his sight ; B en Z om a looked— and lost his reason. A h her w ent
into the G arden o f D elights and com m itted depredations therein ;
b u t R a b b i A qiba entered in peace and left in peace. A n d the
H oly One, w hose servants we are— blessed be his nam e— said :
‘ This old m an is w orth y of serving us w ith glory V*
M ark you , here are the four general types o f students o f the
A n cien t W isdom . B en A sai, w h o lost his sight, was one w h o was
attracted b y the doctrines and teachings, and, like another case
m entioned in the G reek legends, looked upon the face o f naked
T ruth and was “ blinded ” . H e becam e, that is, a w orse exotericist
than he was before. H e was unprepared, unready. H e had
forced his w ay into the place w here he d id n ot belong. A n d he
incurred one o f the penalties aw aiting those w ho enter into the
h oly places w ith an unpure heart and an unprepared m ind.
A n d B en Z om a look ed and lost his reason ; he was one w hose
396
FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y 397
nature was so essentially selfish that he looked on ly for that w hich
he him self m ight gain therefrom . A nd his nature being unsteady,
weak, self-centered and selfish, he lost his 0 reason ” , that is to
say he becam e the slave instead of the master. Y ou know the old
m edieval saying that the m agician w ho evokes the so-called
” spirits of the vasty deep ” and is n ot in com plete control of
them , is m ade a\yay w ith b y them , w hich is a saying teaching the
same doctrine that we teach of the utter necessity of spiritual
preparation, m oral preparedness. “ F or the pure in heart see
G od ” , and have naught to fear, which is the Christian m ethod of
expressing the same idea.
A hher, w ho m ade depredations in the Gardens, was one w ho
had w ill-pow er and daring, but likewise was he one w ho considered
self first of all, and he misused the sacred sciences for self-advance­
m ent and personal gain, for position, and all the rest of it. H e
is the type of the " black m agician ” , as it is called. T he T eacher
asks m e further to say that such a one d estroy s h im s e lf b y entering
into a place for w hich he is not fitted, that is, A hher w ho m ade
" depredations ” ; and so likewise did B en Zom a.
B u t R abbi A qiba, w ho entered in peace, and w ent out in peace,
was the typ e of the man inw ardly fully prepared and ready,
whose nature was so purified b y discipline, b y s e lf-discipline,
so purified b y self-forgetfulness and a recognition of the beauties
of self-abnegation in the true sense, that through him could stream
the rays com ing from the divine heart of Being, from the spiritual
sun.
N ow , w hat does this allegory teach us ? This parable shows us
first, that in order to be faithful disciples of our Teachers, and,
second, in order to gain that w hich we are supposed to gain, the
first lesson for us is discipline, ¿¿//-discipline, ethics. W e con­
tinually recur in our studies to this point, because it is of the first
im portance. E very man thinks he is ethical and m oral. Is he ?
A sk yourself what you or I w ould d o under real tem ptation. T h e
French have a rather cynical saying that " every m an has his price
Is it true ? If it is, then neither you nor I, n ot one of us, is fit to sit
here this evening. O nly when we have passed beyon d the poin t
where anything on earth can m ove us or sw ay our will, or b u y us,
then on ly are we fit to enter into the Garden of D elight, like the old
m an R ab bi A qiba, w ho entered in peace and left in peace— a Master.
W e open our stu dy tonight b y referring once m ore to the
extract from the second volum e of T h e S ecr et D o c tr in e , page 492,
w hich w e have read at several ones of our last m eetings, because
around it circles the them e o f our present study. Please note
every w ord.
T h e Secret D octrin e points out, as a self-evident fact, that Mankind,
collectively and individually, is, with all manifested nature, the
398 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
vehicle (a) of the breath of One Universal Principle, in its primal
differentiation ; and (b) of the countless " breaths ” proceeding from
that One Breath in its secondary and further differentiations, as
Nature with its many mankinds proceeds downwards toward the
planes that are ever increasing in materiality. The primary Breath
informs the higher Hierarchies; the secondary—the lower, on the
constantly descending planes.
We are going tonight to make a great step forward, to make a
leap, as it were, over many things that might have been con­
sidered, but that our Teacher has reserved for future consideration,
such as the enormously important problems of Death, and of the
Left-Hand Path, to mention two subjects only. But we are going
to do our best (although we have not laid the foundation fully
for it yet) to point out what the Ancient Wisdom meant when it
spoke of spheres of being. The common term for such a sphere is
“ plane ” , which has its value, because we are accustomed to it ;
and yet we must remember, as our own Teacher has pointed out
in other words, that this word plane is a loose word, because it
may mean almost anything as vulgarly used, and it does not carry
the fundamental thought that these inner worlds are actually fields
of action, spheres of being, actual entitative worlds, in fact.
Now, you will remember that at our last study we drew seven
parallel lines, diagrammatical, illustrating the seven kosmic
Elements, in which work the seven kosmic Forces or Principles
— the energy-consciousness side of Being. Please note this
evening carefully that these Elements, the kosmical Elements,
are Worlds. Call them planes if you like, but really they are
worlds. I do not mean “ globes ” , necessarily, that is, solid
spherical bodies. They are around and in globes, yet they are
truly worlds, spheres of action, spheres of consciousness; and
each one of these kosmical Elements, in addition to being a
World, is infilled with its own “ Humanities ” , countless, number­
less, innumerable, beyond all human computation. The human
stirps, the human lineage, race, class, is but one among many of
them.
The Ancient Wisdom tells us that there are seven main classes
of such " Humanities ” or stirpes, on every Planetary Chain, and
on this earth, Globe D of our Chain, man stands at the head of
the classes below him. These classes are recognised in ordinary
parlance, in the parlance of our science, as kingdoms ; the human
kingdom, which it confuses wrongly with the beast-kingdom,
first; the beast-kingdom second ; the vegetable-kingdom third;
the mineral kingdom fourth ; and below that the three kingdoms
of the elementáis. Call these last nature-spirits, or sub-Stirpes or
sub-lineages, sub-races, sub-life-waves of being. And you will
have noticed at our last meeting that, in the diagram we then
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 399
drew, we figured a triangle, representing the three higher or arupa
or formless worlds which thus, with the seven below, make the
ten of a complete Hierarchy.
Now these kosmical Elements or Worlds or Spheres, are
divided more particularly into Lokas— a Sanskrit word meaning
places in the sense of worlds— and into Talas. And these are as
given below, using the names found in the Brahmanical literature
of Hindusthan, names which we have adopted for convenience
because they are in that literature and are more or less known ;
but this does not necessarily mean that we accept all the ideas
connected therewith in the Brahmanical works. We use these
names because they show that there are actually seven worlds
or lokas, and seven inferior worlds or talas, which we shall begin
to define and briefly to describe this evening.
Note that these seven kosmical Elements and Principles are
in fact these fourteen lokas, or rather lokas and talas, seven of
each. Let us first enumerate them, name them in order.
Satya-loka 1 .. Atala
Tapar-loka 2 .. Vitala
Janar-loka .. 3 .. .. Sutala
Mahar-loka .. 4 .. .. Rasatala
Swar-loka .. 5 .. .. Talatala
Bhuvar-loka .. 6 .. .. Mahatala
Bhur-loka .. 7 .. .. Patala
First the lokas. Beginning with the highest, that is, the
inmost, we find Satya-loka, a word meaning “ Reality ’’-world;
Tapar-loka, the next, is a Sanskrit compound word meaning
“ devotion ’’-world in the sense of “ meditation ” , “ contem­
plation ” , “ introspection ” ; next, Janar-loka from the Sanskrit
root meaning “ birth ” ; Mahar-loka meaning “ great ” ; Swar-
loka meaning “ heaven ” ; Bhuvar-loka, an ancient word coming
from the Sanskrit root BM, meaning “ to grow ” or “ develop ” .
And lastly Bhur-loka, the lowest. The corresponding Talas are,
counting downwards from the higher to the more material,
Atala, Vitala, Sutala, Rasatala, Talatala, Mahatala, Pdtala.
Now the first thought which we must concentrate our attention
upon is this, that these lokas and talas are not one above the other
like the rungs of a ladder ; they interpenetrate, they interblend ;
they do not merely commingle, but interblend. A man's thought,
for instance, is not necessarily perfectly divine or perfectly evil.
It is composite, blended, of both qualities, but not merely mixed.
There is nothing so mechanical as that about this fact. We are
studying ethereal and spiritual matters. These lokas and talas
blend together. For instance, electricity, whether we call it
400 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
matter or force, is bi-polar. There is a positive pole and a negative
pole. We may call a loka one of the poles and its corresponding
tala the other, for these correspond to each other in twos, a
loka and a tala, each to each. Satya-loka to Atala, Tapar-loka to
Vitala, and so on down the scale, until we come to the lowest,
Bhur-loka and Patala.
It is commonly said in the Brahmanical literature that the lokas
are the “ heavens ” and the talas are the " hells ” . Now that is
one way of expressing a profound truth, but we must beware of
these words “ heavens ” and " hells ” on account of wrong
European religious ideas, associated ideas. The actual, esoteric
meaning is that the lokas are the Luminous Arc, or rather that
procession of nature and of beings in which spirit or the Luminous
Arc predominates. And the Talas are the Arc of Shadows, the
Shadowy Arc, or rather that procession of nature and of beings, in
which matter predominates. Each one of the lokas works with
its corresponding one of the talas. Please remember, that here
is a root-thought. You cannot separate them.
Now each of the seven kosmical Elements corresponds, each to
each, with the lokas, and each to each with the talas. In other
words, the seven lokas and the seven talas work correspondentially
on each one of the kosmical Elements or Worlds. Furthermore,
each one of the seven globes of our planetary chain has its own seven
lokas and seven talas by “ reflexion ” . You know the old esoteric
principle lying at the basis of all our thought, expressed in the
so-called Hermetic axiom, “ As above, so below ” ; “ as below,
so above The meaning is that our universe, and every part of
it, is not an anarchical universe. Everything is inchained with
everything else, and the higher is reflected or rather reflects itself
in the lower; the lower being actually the expression of the
higher; or, as expressed in our former three or four meetings,
the lower worlds are the garments (or expressions, or reflexions)
of the higher. Nothing is separate from anything else. You
know the greatest heresy in Buddhism (and this is likewise our
own teaching) is the so-called " separateness ” , the idea or belief
that anything is or can be considered apart from the whole.
That is also what the Christians meant when they spoke of the
” crime against the Holy Ghost.” The few early Christians who
were initiated considered this crime as the most heinous of
iniquities, and they were right.
Now then, having gone thus far, we may see that these talas
or inferior worlds, are, each to each, each in each, actually the
kosmical Elements. Is this thought clear ? Next, the Forces
working through these talas or worlds, through these fields of
action: Forces material, ethereal, psychical, spiritual, divine,
and so on, are the Principles of the Kosmos, the consciousnesses
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 401
which infill Space, and are, in fact, Space itself; and these latter
are the lokas.
We have pointed out, I think at our last meeting, that these
Elements may be considered serially somewhat after the fashion
of the skins of an onion. This is a far better illustration, as being
more suggestive, than the “ plane "-system, although this system
was used too in ancient times ; and we also pointed out that these
skins of the earth, these skins of the kosmos, grow more ethereal,
grow more spiritual, as they proceed inwards. But we do not
mean— please mark this very carefully— that these more spiritual
or inner worlds or spheres are smaller, i.e., inferior in volume to
the outermost rind. Size has nothing whatsoever to do with
ethereal or spiritual bearings. Mere bulk or volume has nothing
whatsoever to do with consciousness. How then can we reconcile
these two apparently contradictory statements, this paradox :
that the more you approach the material center of a thing, the
denser it is ; the more you approach the spiritual center of a
thing the diviner it is ? You know that the old Greek philosophers,
the Atomistic Philosophers so-called, such as Democritus,
Leucippus, Epicurus, etc., followed by the great Roman poet,
Lucretius, said for instance in their atomistic theories that
heaven was composed of the finer and more subtil atoms, and
that the earth, and the planetary and stellar bodies, were
composed of those which were coarser and heavier and there­
fore fell together, meaning that they were more strongly
attracted together. That is true enough, for it is a statement
made from the tala-side, the matter-side. But now listen.
Remember, we have often spoken of a laya-center, a laya-
center being the seventh or highest degree of matter (or the first
degree of spirit), the vanishing-point of matter into higher realms,
the Nirvana of matter, the Nirvana of any entity of which it is
the heart, the center. Our laya-center as human beings, is our
Atman, our Universal Self. Each globe is likewise an atom or a
monad, or a god, according to the plane or world which we con­
sider it as being in. Now this laya-center is at the center or heart
of our being; it is, in fact, that core of our being, and from it
radiate, as the rays from the sun radiate outwards, these forces,
these elements, these skins of being ; these forces and elements or
skins growing grosser, in one sense, as they proceed farther from
the center. But the more ethereal the original plane is, or the
original world or sphere is, or the original field of action is, the
more spiritual the originating center is, and the wider is its
outflow of radiation. You catch that thought ? The spiritual
entity continuously flowing through the laya-center has rays
which reach far beyond the more material coatings, and which
in the lowest, radiate scarcely more than beyond its own
402 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
circumscribed limits. To change somewhat the illustration, the
spiritual, inner realms of man or of globe, are the various “ planes ”
or degrees, or spheres, of the Auric Egg— one of the most sacred
of our teachings, and the one concerning which the least has been
said.
Let us illustrate this again by an exoteric statement with regard
to the three lowest of the lokas respectively, Bhur-loka, Bhuvar-
loka, and Swar-loka. Bhur-loka is said to be, in the exoteric,
Brahmanical books, our earth. Its field of influence reaches little
farther than the atmosphere. Bhuvar-loka, they say, has rays
(or an atmosphere) which reach to the sun, although actually it
is the world or loka next within the earth— not another physical
world within the physical earth, skin-of-onion fashion, but an
ethereal world within the physical earth. And Swar-loka is a
world still more ethereal or spiritual, within Bhuvar-loka, that
has rays (or an atmosphere) which reach even to Dhruva, or the
polar star. This may illustrate the point.
And mark you, as a natural fact deduced from this, we could
have no connexion with beings outside ourselves, or beyond
ourselves, nor with other planets, or our sun or others, unless there
were these atmospheric bearers or carriers, these auric rays,
these atmospheres by which we come into touch with other
beings and globes and worlds— both on our plane and on other
planes. Is that clear ? A magnet has its magnetism or magnetic
atmosphere reaching beyond itself, which will illustrate the point.
It has its limits of reach, of course ; and in the same sense all
these lokas and talas have their atmospheres ; the inner ones have
the atmospheres which reach farther than the outer lokas and
talas; and so progressively more so as we go inwards.
Now Patala, the lowest of the talas, is also said to be our
earth. Yes, that statement also is correct from the point of view
of the kosmical planes. Note also that these lokas and these
talas, are the bi-polar elements of nature, the bi-polar worlds of
being, the ascending and the descending: the involving or the
talas, and the evolving or the lokas. By the action of the talas
being dominant over the action of the lokas, we “ descend ” ,
to use the popular phrase, along the Shadowy Arc, into mani­
festation at the beginning of a manvantara, and having reached
our earth, which is the turning-point, we then ascend along the
Luminous Arc, the lokas then becoming the dominant, and the
talas the recessive, to use the modern, biological phraseology.
Satya-loka could not exist without Atala as its vehicle or nether
pole. Tapar-loka could not exist without Vitala as its nether
pole ; and so forth down the scale. Is the thought clear ? This
is one of the most difficult of things to explain in European words ;
and yet really it is one of the simplest of conceptions. We must
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 403
cleanse our minds first of mechanical suggestions. We must
understand that we are here dealing with spiritual and psycho­
logical and ethereal matters and things. There could be no
Luminous Arc without the lokas, and no Shadowy Arc without
the talas, as bases respectively— and when we say Luminous or
Shadowy Arc we do not mean an actual arc, for it is a figure of
speech. We mean those worlds and those processes and those
processions of beings in nature by which, or in which, or through
which we " descend ” into manifestation or, on the other hand,
by which we rise and grow into spiritual greatness. Such are
the two Arcs respectively. Virtue, purity, kindness, compassion,
pity, mercy, etc.,— all these things are signs that the entity
possessing them is evolving the spirit within, and is rising,
ascending, along the Luminous Arc. And where we see selfishness
and impurity and unkindliness and cruelty and deception,
hypocrisy, etc., they are the signs that the entity possessing them
is under the influence or dominance of the Descending or Shadowy
Arc, the talas. Nevertheless, from the very beginning and in
either direction, the lokas and talas are interblended and work
together, for they are spirit and matter.
These two, Lokas and Talas, therefore work each within each
other. For instance, our earth, our planet Terra, our globe, on
and in which we live, has its own particular seven lokas and seven
talas. As seen from the kosmical viewpoint, the physical loka
and tala to our present physical eyes are Bhur-loka and Patala,
or our earth. It is Patala if we look at it from the material stand­
point ; and it is Bhur-Loka if we look at it from the energy-
consciousness side, from the nobler or better side, towards the
rising side. Remember always that lokas and talas work and
exist invariably two by two— by twos, one of each ; and on every
plane.
Now, in addition to the seven kosmical Principles being respec­
tively these lokas, as said before, and the kosmical Elements the
seven talas ; all fourteen, seven of each, are reflected in each one
of the seven globes of our chain. “ As above, so below ” ; "A s
below, so above ” . The little is as the great; the microcosm is
but a representation or copy in small of the macrocosm.
Suppose that we were to ask ourselves with regard to these
Lokas and Talas, Where do we stand in the scale ? Where are
we in loka and tala ? We are in the Fourth Globe of our Chain, as
we know. Let us then take the fourth loka and fourth tala,
i.e., Mahar-loka corresponding in scale with Rasatala. But,
again, we are in the Fourth Round of our Planetary Chain.
Therefore we have this bi-polar principle emphasized by the
Fourth Round quality, i.e., Mahar-loka and Rasatala again. We
are, furthermore, in the Fifth Root-Race of the Fourth Planet on
404 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
the Fourth Round. Therefore our Root-Race, though evolving
on that fourth Globe and in that fourth Round, is represented by
the fifth of each column ; Swar-loka and Talatala. " Wheels
within wheels ", as Ezekiel, the Hebrew prophet, nobly said.
Furthermore, where are we as regards the kosmic Elements ?
We have stated this a few moments agone. H. P. Blavatsky, in
her diagram of these in The Secret Doctrine, which we reproduced
at our last meeting, shows that our globe Terra stands in the
lowest of the kosmic Elements, the seventh counting downwards.
Therefore the kosmical Element in which we and this globe are,
is Bh&r-loka and Patala, kosmically speaking.
It is these actions and interactions, these interblendings of lokas
and talas, of these various elements and forces and principles,
which render any exposition of them so complicated. However,
it makes knowledge of them precious, for knowledge of these
things is not cried from the house-tops, but, as said before, is
given as the reward of merit to those found worthy and well
qualified.
Let us approach these questions from another standpoint,
Where are we on the kosmical Worlds or Planes ? We are told
that Brahma lives one hundred of his years. Brahma., remember
is a Sanskrit word standing for the spiritual energy-consciousness
side of our solar universe, i.e., our solar system, and the “ Egg oi
Brahma " is that solar system. We are further told that his life
is half ended, fifty of his years are gone— a figure which we express
in fifteen figures of our years, i.e., 155 trillions, 520 billions
(155,520,000,000,000) of years have passed away since our solai
system, with its sun, first began its manvantaric course. There
remain therefore, fifty more such years to pass before the system
sinks into Rest, or Pralaya. As only half of the evolutionary
journey is accomplished, we are, therefore, at the bottom of the
kosmic cycle, i.e., on the lowest plane, as the diagram above
mentioned shows.
And where are we on this planet ? We are on the lowest plane
here also, because being in the Fourth Round, we have run oui
course only by half. The lowest kosmical plane, as said above
is Bhur-loka and Patala. As a matter of fact, however, as saic
at another study, we have advanced a little on the Ascending
Arc, because our Planetary Chain is the child of the Lunai
Chain, and the Lunar Chain was on the exact lowest degree.
Now these thoughts are laid before you tonight, if you please
Comrades, as suggestive propositions for further consideration
because we might as well say that if the Teacher instructs us to g(
farther into these things, here are the elements of our studj
which we then must have clear in our minds. Understand firsl
that the universe, according to the ancient system, is divided int<
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 405
seven grades or degrees of being, which are worlds, lokas and
talas, that is, these worlds are polarized into lokas and talas,
two by two throughout. Our earth shows them as bi-polar,
because it is the only planet on this plane, in this kosmic Element,
or World, in this particular degree or sphere. It is the turning-
point of our Planetary Chain where matter spirit equilibrates,
rendering it bi-polar. Next, that each one of the seven globes
of our Chain has its own seven lokas and seven talas. As said
before, they are popularly called “ heavens ” and “ hells ” .
Not that they are “ heavens ” and " hells ” in the European sense
of the word, but they represent the two sides of being, the duality
of manifestation, the higher and the lower natures, if you like, as
well of the planet as of the human being.
Now then, let us go a little farther. In the seven lokas and seven
talas of our world, working together as they do, two by two, one
of each, one loka and one tala : in each of these there are in­
numerable hosts of beings. In the higher ones of the lokas and
talas, are thinking and conscious entities, as our own human
stirps (that is, race, lineage, life-wave) is. These lokas and talas
interpenetrate each other. As H. P. Blavatsky says in a very
noble passage in The Secret Doctrine, they have each one their
own “ geographical ” spheres ; the respective inhabitants of the
different Lokas and Talas live in their own world, pursue their
own vocations, work out their own karmic destiny, even as we
do in our world. It is but human egoism that claims so foolishly
that ours is the only race of intelligent beings in the boundless
Kosmos, and which goes so far as even to deny intelligence and
consciousness to beings even on other physical planets. It is a
position which is intolerable to the mind of really thinking men,
because it is based on nothing but ignorance and folly ; nothing
can be said for the claim whatsoever ; and everything : logic,
intellect, analogy, comparing thought, intuition, all speak loudly
to the contrary, and proclaim that there is not an atom of the
infinite realms of space, which is not fully infilled with its own
appropriate and proper lines or races of beings.
I beg you to bear these Lokas and Talas in mind. Please
think of them always by twos, one of each, one Loka and one
Tala, its correspondence, in the scale, ever working together, as
inseparable as positive and negative are, as inseparable as good
and evil are, as inseparable as spirit and matter. They represent
and in fact are the two sides of being, not necessarily the body-
side and the spirit-side, but the two contrasting forces, the two
contrasted sides of Nature, the night-side and the light-side, the
shadowy side and the bright side.
The three diagrams to which I now call attention are of three
very ancient symbols coming to us from old Atlantean times, and
406 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
full of suggestive meaning along the lines of our study tonight.
Let us take first this one: a circle divided by the twice curved line.
Rising out of the circumference and re­
entering into the circumference, the line
proceeds around, forming a figure, of
which one side is shaded and the other
is left blank. This is a favorite Buddhist
symbol. It is found all over the Orient,
but particularly in Buddhist countries,
and furnishes one of the favorite motifs
of Buddhist art. All Buddhist art is re­
ligious art, of course. Will you please note
here that in taking one side, the shaded
side, we find the line leaving the circumference at the top, curving
around, then re-curving itself, and then at the bottom re-entering
the circumference. And where it re-enters the circumference we
find the side left blank or void, moving forth in the opposite
direction, forming part of the circumference of the circle, ascending
until it reaches the summit, and then joining the other line which
first went down from that point in the twice curved line to rejoin
the point after forming the other side of the circumference. These
represent the Lokas and Talas, or the involution of spirit and the
evolution of matter; and, again, the rising one the evolution of
spirit, and the involution of matter, joined and inseparable,
forming one figure ; the circle also suggesting the Boundless All,
and the shadowy side suggesting the talas, the dark side or the
matter-side, and the side left void suggesting the spirit-side, the
great illimitable void of the Boundless All, of the Boundless Self.
I think that this design, this symbol, is one of the most beautiful,
one of the most suggestive, that I have ever known. The more
you study it the more it suggests thought. It shows, as said before,
our lokas and our talas inseparable _
_
and interworking. It shows the “ de­
scent ” of spirit, so to say, and the
ascent of matter, co-ordinately and
contemporaneously ; and it shows the I
evolution of spirit, and the involution I
of matter back again into spirit, from
which it came and which it funda- *
mentally is.
Let us turn next to another old
symbol. It is the Swastika, another __
favorite Buddhist symbol and otherwise
found all over the Orient, and even all over the world. It first sug­
gests motion, evolution; the broken arms bent at right angles sug­
gest life, movement, and forward progress, and many other things.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 407
Next, note the cross figure. We have here— and now we come
to the symbol-meaning of the cross upon which we must lightly
touch tonight— first the vertical line, so called the spirit, and
then the horizontal line, the matter which it enters and traverses.
The two work together. Take away either arm, or either part of
the two lines which make the Swastika, and you no longer have a
Swastika. This .also suggests, though less violently, if I may use
the expression, the Lokas and Talas inseparably joined.
And the third of our symbols is what is known to scholars today
as the Egyptian tau or ansated or handled cross, also a very old
symbol dating from Atlantean times, and found on the backs of
some of the statues on Easter Island.
Note the circle at the top of the cross, and the vertical line des­
cending from it— symbolic of the descent of the spirit into matter
— the horizontal line— from the sphere of the divine. Its meaning
is similar to that of the Swastika. The latter, how­
ever, emphasizes the movements and circulations
of consciousnesses in Space, or evolution; while
the ansated cross represents a higher plane— the
primordial movements and states of kosmic being.
These symbols are really very beautiful. There
is no need to sully our thought by adverting to
questions of phallic meaning into which they have
been degraded. They can bear that interpretation,
because you can degrade anything. All life is one,
and one general design runs through all. But we
shall not speak of this. The main thing we wish to
point out now is that in these age-old symbols and
particularly in this bi-polar, bi-vital, Loka-Tala Buddhistic figure,
the first we have here, we find the suggested outline, the symbolic
or paradigmatic form, of the entire doctrine of the higher and
lower spheres of being, kosmical or human, i.e., of the Lokas
and Talas, of which we have spoken tonight.
There is one more thing to bring to your attention, if you please,
Comrades, and that is to point out at least by suggestion, the
perfect coherence of all the limbs of life. How can one otherwise
express it, the perfect unity of the mechanism of being ? The
circulations of the kosmos are carried on not in haphazard form,
but from sphere to sphere, from world to world, from plane to
plane, by and through consciousnesses, whether they be gods,
monads, souls, or atoms, working in the various elements ; and
more particularly in our solar system this is done through the sun
and planets, especially by and through their respective inner
atmospheres of their lokas and talas, spoken of before.
In occultism there are seven sacred planets. We recognise
many more in our solar system than seven, many more than our
408 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
scientists do, but only seven planets are held sacred. And why ?
We can at least Say this much, that these seven planets are sacred
for us, inhabitants of this globe, because they are the transmitters
to us from the sun of the seven primal Forces of the Kosmos. Our
seven principles and our seven elements spring originally from
this seven-fold life-flow.
Let us put this matter in another light. On this plane, our
physical globe, Terra, is alone, but on the three other planes of
being, the globes of our Planetary Chain, two by two, are not the
seven principles of our earth. That would be a false analogy,
false analogical reasoning. Remember that at our last meeting
we spoke then of another false analogy. We must be careful not
to be led astray by such false analogies. The seven principles of
our globe are the seven lokas and seven talas belonging especially
to Earth ; and the seven principles of each one of the other six
globes of our Planetary Chain, are the respective Lokas and Talas
belonging to each one of them. Now these two other globes on
each plane of the three planes above ours, making thus the other
six globes of our Planetary Chain, receive their respective life-
force, receive their respective inflow of intellectual and spiritual
energies and beings from the respective lokas and talas of the sun.
There are seven suns, but only one sun on this plane, as our globe
is but one on this plane, the lowest of the seven kosmical planes.
With this thought, let us close our meeting tonight.
CHAPTER XXXVII
THE FRAME-WORK OF THE KOSMOS. LOKAS AND TALAS : PRINCI­
PLES AND ELEMENTS : WORLDS— NOT STATES MERELY. SPACE
THE ULTIMATE REALITY.
Maitveya : “ The sphere of the whole earth has been described to me, by you,
excellent Brahman ; and I am now desirous to hear an account of the other
spheres (above the world),— the Bhuvar-loka and the rest,— and the situation
and the dimensions of the celestial luminaries.”
Vishnu Purdna, II, Ch. VII (Wilson).
She said : “ That, O Yajnavalkya, which is above the sky, that which is
beneath the earth, that which is between these two, sky and earth, that which
people call the past and the present and the future— across what is that woven,
warp and woof ? ”
He said : " Thai, O Gargi, which'is above the sky, that which is beneath the
earth, that which is between these two, sky and earth, that which people call
the past and the present and the future— across space alone is that woven,
warp and woof.”
“ Across what then, pray, is space woven, warp and w
’oof ? ”
He said : “ That, O Gargi, Brahmans call the Imperishable.”
It consumes nothing soever.
No one soever consumes it.
" Verily, O G&rgi, that Imperishable is the unseen Seer, the unheard Hearer,
the unthought Thinker, the ununderstood Understander. Other than It there
is naught that sees. Other than It there is naught that hears. Other than It
there is naught that thinks. Other than It there is naught that understands.
Across this Imperishable, O G&rgi, is space woven, warp and woof.” [It is
Space Itself.] A
Byihad-Aranyaka Upanishad, 3. 8.— vv. 6, 7, 8, 11 (Hume).
I
F Brotherhood is the “ Lost Chord ” , ethically speaking, in
Occidental thought, may we not say that the loss of the
idea that the universe we sense or know of is but the rind
of things, is the cause of the spiritual and intellectual feeble­
ness of that same Occidental thought ? We have lost, as Occi­
dentals, perhaps the noblest concept of all the ancient world, the
concept which, however, still exists over the larger part of the
globe today, and that concept, or knowledge to many, is the fact
that the outside world which our physical senses tell us of, is but
the shell of things, of Reality, and that the greater part is within,
behind the veil of physical existence. Think what that means.
We see but the rind, the husk, the shell, the skin of things ; but
all the great moving forces are from within, all the great circula­
tions of the Kosmos are behind the outward seeming, and this
verity was the core, of the religious and philosophic conceptions of
the ancient world, and to a large extent forms even today in the
Orient and among the so-called savage peoples— degenerated heirs
4°9
410 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
of a greater wisdom of past time— the philosophic and religious
thought which leads them to live and to die in calm peace and
hope. And in larger spheres of our thinking we must realize that
if we are to understand the great problems of life, the great
problems, that is to say, of the various departments of human
thought: Religion, Philosophy, and Science, we must go behind
this outward veil, we must penetrate more deeply into the Heart
of Things.
The thought is sublime because it contains the fundamentals of
the true exposition of Life, and because it is a veritable key to the
understanding of the ideas which motivated the civilizations of
past ages; and our civilization will never reach that which it
should be, and indeed which it is destined to be, until this old-
world thought is brought back into the consciousness of men.
Then indeed it will guide their conduct because it will give a
rational explanation of the problems of being ; and men will live
aright, because they will then understand that what human in­
tellect calls justice, that is to say, order, rules the entire universe.
We read again from The Secret Doctrine, from Volume II, page
492, the same extract that we have read at our previous studies,
four or five of them, because it still forms the main theme of what
we are here considering and trying to understand, that is to say :
The Secret Doctrine points out, as a self-evident fact, that Mankind,
collectively and individually, is, with all manifested nature, the vehicle
(a) of the breath of One Universal Principle, in its primal differentia­
tion ; and (b) of the countless “ breaths” proceeding from that One
breath in its secondary and further differentiations, as Nature with
its many mankinds proceeds downwards toward the planes that are
ever increasing in materiality. The primary Breath informs the higher
Hierarchies ; the secondary—the lower, on the constantly descending
planes.
We continue our study this evening of the frame-work of the
Kosmos ; and this frame-work itself is constructed in the manner
pointed out in our last study, i.e., by the lokas and talas. And
great, unquestionably, was the patience of all here at our last
meeting, who listened to our study, to our thought, and realized
the immense complexity of a first presentation of these things—
who doubtless saw that we were following the instructions given
to us by our Teacher when these meetings were first inaugurated
by her, to wit, to follow as closely as possible the methods of study
used in the ancient Mystery-Schools ; and one of these methods
was never at the first approach of a new subject, openly and fully,
to voice the teaching concerning it— but to begin it first by hint
and also by talking around it, by talking about it, never at it or of
it. There were several reasons for this, founded on a profound
knowledge of human psychology. The whole effort is to enable
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 411
the hearer or reader to break his own molds of mind ; and nothing
perhaps, knowing human nature as we do, so antagonizes or
renders the human mind more combative than to throw an idea
at it, so to say. But let the hearer or reader first feel that he is
taken into the thought by indirection, and by an appeal to his
own inner spirit. For, indeed, he wants to break his molds of
mind himself in.the first instance, and to understand of his own
initiative ; and he is right. Our first duty is to open the way to
the hearer to think for himself.
This evening, however, having followed the above method at
our last meeting, we are going to approach the matter directly,
and clear up the apparent confusion.
One of the other methods which we have followed— and you
have doubtless noticed it— is the use of the figure of speech called
the paradox, for precisely the same reasons outlined above. We
must, above all things, prevent the crystallization of the mentality
around one thought; and in our Order experience has shown that
the best way to do this is first to talk around and about a thing;
then to present one aspect, and then, if possible, a contrasting
aspect, the antithesis or polar opposite of the former aspect; and
very soon the mind which undergoes this process, realizes it and
says to itself: “ I am not going to allow my mind to crystallize
about this thought alone; something more is coming, another
view. I will await, before judging.” This process tends, above
everything else, to prevent dogmatism, whether in religion, or
philosophy, or science. And mark you, it is the exact opposite of
the methods of instruction so dear to the Occidental heart, which
likewise is fascinated by the entifying of abstractions. This enti-
fication of abstracts, as you know, is the leaning or the attempt
mentally to think of abstractions as real entities. It is the exact
opposite of the method followed in all ancient civilizations, and
even in the Orient today, in dealing with profound psychological
or spiritual matters. Their wise old Teachers showed them that
the entification of abstractions distracts the mind and leads it
away from the primal truths of being, for the mind feels tempo­
rarily satisfied with phantasms instead of realities, and precious
time is lost; while the mind itself is lost in mazes of unrealities.
This is another example of the profound knowledge of human
psychology that the ancient Teachers had.
Even in the Christian scheme of thought, such as it is, we find
Paul following the same line of real entitative instruction by
parable and trope, in the old manner, in his Letters, in his Epistles,
to the various so-called " Churches ” . If the Christian exegetes,
the theologians, were students of the Ancient Wisdom, they would
know at least enough not to take the words of Paul literally,
because Paul was an initiate, as is shown very clearly by his own
412 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
writings— not necessarily a high initiate, because this word
“ initiate ” merely means one who has “ entered into ” a system,
and who therefore has some knowledge, has received one aspect at
least, has passed through one rite or more of the Ancient Wisdom.
Every one of us here therefore is an “ initiate ” as compared
with what he was before he joined our Order. You know that
Paul, in his second Epistle to the Corinthians, chapter xii, verses
2, 3, 4, writes as follows : “ I know a man in Cfirist ”— note the
wording, he does not say “ I know a friend of Christ ” , but “ I
know a man in Christ ”— “ fourteen years agone (whether in body
I know not, whether out of body I know not, God knoweth). Such
a one being caught up to the third heaven. And I know such a
man (whether in body, whether out of body I know not, God
knoweth), that he was caught up into the Paradise, and heard
things not to be divulged, which are not lawful for a man to
utter ” .
Now we have made our own translation of these lines from the
Greek original, and while there is no need to repeat the Greek
words, I wish to point out that the very words that Paul uses
here, " heard things not to be divulged ” , etc., etc., are the sacra­
mental words, so to speak, the sacred words, used in the mystic
ceremonials of the ancient teachings. Further, this shows very
clearly that this man was Paul himself, otherwise he would have
known nothing of it.
Thirdly, when he shows that this man, he himself, was “ caught
up to the third heaven ”, I must point out that if our theologians
knew something of the language of the Mysteries, they would at
least understand that this expression “ third heaven ” is an old
form or symbol of speech of the initiations.
Remember, we have spoken at other ones of our studies of
the fact that beginning with the Fourth Degree of initiation, in the
ancient times, the candidate was made to be or to become— for the
time being— that which he had heretofore been taught of ; he was
made to go into the different lokas and talas and temporarily be
the things there in order to know them. One of the methods of
describing this fact was speaking of being in or of the first heaven,
the second heaven, the third heaven, the fourth, and so on. It
was another way of saying, by Paul, “ In my third initiation I
heard things not to be divulged, which it is not lawful for a man
to utter ” .
Now an example of this entification of abstractions, this giving
to phantasmal notions both substance and form, is shown clearly
in the scientific and philosophic writings of our European thinkers,
when they use the word space in the sense of a mere concept.
Space to them is an abstraction; to us the ultimate Being,
Reality, All-Life. Just think what that means. Space, ex hypo-
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 413
thesi, is boundless, is what we call infinite ; and yet they write of
it and talk of it and speak of it as a mere container, a finite thing,
and speak of the 4
4dimensions of space ” . Space, as Boundless-
All-Life, can have no dimensions. You cannot bound or mete or
measure the infinite. What they mean is the dimensions of matter,
mensuration. They predicate a conceptual abstraction; then
proceed to endow it with finite attributes— entifying it, as said
above ; for to them, space is a mere mental representation.
Some of our occidental thinkers are even speaking of the 4
4fourth
dimension of space ", implying that there are others beyond, a
fifth, a sixth perhaps. Now in our School we do not admit this
idea. Space can have no dimensions. Matter can have three
dimensions only, because as you will readily see, when you express
the metes and bounds of manifested substance by length, and
breadth, and depth, you have covered the entire field that it
presents. But what is it in these minds which induces them to
hunt and search for what they so inaccurately call the 4
1 dimen­
sions of space ” ? It is the intuition, the recognition, of worlds
within the outer rind or shell, spoken of before. There is no such
thing in nature as 4
4Flatland " or a two-dimensional world,
or a one-dimensional world, because each world comprises all
4
4dimensions ” .
Consider what we mean when we speak of the Principles and
Elements of the Kosmos, as pointed out in our last study. The
Elements are Worlds, and the Principles are the spiritual forces,
entities, spiritual intelligences at the root of them, which work
through those Worlds or Elements. And what do we mean by
World ? We mean exactly— we speak English— what the English
usage of the word " world ” is. We go out upon our house-tops, or
into the roads, or into a field, and see what we call the universe
around us, the stars, and the sun, and again the beings on earth ;
and all this is a World. No, it is not a globe. A globe is merely
one of the entities or bodies in a World. So, at our last meeting,
when we said that these lokas and talas are not globes but worlds,
we meant just that. We may perhaps call them spheres, if you
like, but not by using the word 4
4sphere ” , please, in the physical,
geometrical sense. We use it rather in a more abstract sense, as
when we speak of the sphere of one's activity, the musical sphere
or the musical world, the intellectual or material spheres or worlds.
But the word 4
4world ” for our present purposes, in order to
describe these lokas and talas, is far better. Etymologically it
would never do, because this Anglo-Saxon word was originally
Weorold, meaning 4
4man-age ” , i.e., meaning the age of a man,
definitely, in those times, taken as of one hundred years, and
commonly spoken of in literary usage, as an age. It is interesting
that this word 4
4world ” closely corresponds with the meaning,
2 E
414 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
with the two meanings rather, of the Greek word " Aion ” , or
aeon, which originally meant with the Greek Gnostics both an
epoch of time, a period of time, and a spiritual being or world.
Now these lokas and talas, as pointed out in our last study— and
everything we are going to say tonight was said at our last meet­
ing ; but this evening we are going to be more definite, go directly
to the point— these lokas and talas, if we refer them to the
Kosmos, are respectively the Principles and Elements of the Kosmos.
The lokas are the Principles, and the talas are the Elements.
Loka means " world ” . The Principles, however, are as much
Worlds as the Elements are. The Principles of the Kosmos are
higher kosmic Worlds as the Elements are lower kosmic Worlds.
Pause a moment, and see how simple this conception really is.
We see the physical world around us, the physical universe. We
are taught in our Sacred Science that the world (in Occultism that
is) has seven so-called “ Planes ” . As remarked before, this word
" plane ” is an unfortunate term in some ways, because people
associate it with its geometrical meaning of a flat surface. It is a
loose term, as said before, but it is familiar, and therefore it is
convenient. The Elements, the Talas, are Worlds; so are the
Lokas ; they represent together, in other words, what is popularly
called the Seven Principles of the Kosmos. The seven principles
of the Kosmos correspond in their element-side, to the Talas ; and
the seven Principles, per se, of the Kosmos, i.e., the spiritual side,
correspond to the seven Lokas.
The difficulty for us arises, perhaps, because we have been so
accustomed to speak of the seven principles of man, and, Occi­
dentals as we are, we think of them only as abstractions; ac­
customed to our habit of entifying abstractions, we do not con­
ceive of them as real essential things, so that perhaps in our minds
we have reduced these principles of man almost to mere words.
But, as pointed out in a former study, man has seven principles
and also seven elements or vehicles, in which those principles
work, each principle in its appropriate vehicle, each principle in
its corresponding element. Yet we should consider the Kosmos
in precisely the same manner, because man is but a reflexion of
the Kosmos, he is the microcosm of the macrocosm. To use the
old Hermetic saying, “ As above, so below : as below, so above
So then, knowing that our Universe has seven Planes, that is,
seven elements from one viewpoint, and seven Principles or the
energy-consciousness side from another viewpoint, we may now
definitely say that the Element-side, the vehicle-side, the matter-
side, the dark side, is the Tala-side. The seven Talas are the seven
Elements or matter-Worlds of Kosmos ; and the seven Lokas—
which are Worlds also— are the seven Principles of the Kosmos.
Now if we were able to ascend into any one of the higher
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 415
Elements and Principles of the Kosmos, we should find our
present world reduplicated— with modifications, naturally; but
each one of these Elements and Principles is a kosmic World, a
Tala or a Loka respectively.
One of the most interesting symbols in use by men of the ancient
world, by which they described these inseparable Lokas and
Talas, was wha.t is called in Hindusthan “ Vishnu’s Sign ” , and
which for some unknown reason among European mystics is called
" Solomon’s Seal This symbol is one of the most wide-spread,
familiar, and favorite symbols of the Asiatic-European world.
We have here two interlaced triangles, one pointing upwards
and one pointing downwards, inseparably united in order to form
this symbol. Separate them, and this symbol no longer exists.
The triangle with its point upwards
represents the Lokas, and the one with
its point downwards, the Talas. This
is likewise a symbol of human and
kosmic evolution, of the duality in
nature, and of the interplay of the
spiritual and material forces in life. If
we were to put a point in the center of
these interlaced triangles, we should
immediately transfer its symbolic
meaning to incipient kosmic evolution,
it then becoming somewhat like the
figure of the circle with the central point. Also, in human matters,
it would then be the symbol of what we call a “ Master ” . Some­
times, in the last sense, it is written in more simple shape, as three
dots in triangular form. Sometimes again the three dots have a
fourth in the center, which is but an abbreviated form of this same
figure; but in this case the triangle always points upward, for
it shows that the aspiration of the Man symbolized is upward,
signifying the ascent through the Lokas.
This brings us to our next point, and that is that while it is true
that these Lokas and Talas are “ states ” in a general sense, it is
only so in the sense in which ” heavens ” and “ hells ” may be so
considered. They are “ states ” , of course, but they are also
localities, because any entity in or possessing a state must be
somewhere. Devachan and Nirvana are not localities, they are
states, states of the beings in those respective spiritual conditions.
Devachan is the intermediate state; Nirvana is the super­
spiritual state; and Avichi, popularly called the lowest of the
hells, is the nether pole of the spiritual condition. These three are
states of beings having habitat in the Lokas or Talas, i.e., in the
Worlds of the Kosmic Egg. And secondly, while the “ heavens ”
and " hells ” are considered as states, we must remember that
416 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
‘‘ hell ” or " heaven ” is not a condition which exists per se> as
does a world. Each is the state of some thing or some entity which
is in that state, and, which therefore, being an entity, must have
position or place, and according to the invariable rules which
govern the Kosmos, such states must be likewise correspondential
to similar surroundings— in other words, a being in “ heaven ” or
“ hell ” is in a corresponding Loka or Tala.
So then, before closing tonight, we hope that we have made
one thing perfectly clear, that is, to put it briefly, that these
Lokas and Talas are respectively the Principles and Elements of
the Kosmos, and also of every globe in that Kosmos, each one
of which possesses seven Lokas and seven Talas. These Lokas
and Talas are inseparable, and each one corresponds to a similar
one of the other line. That is clear, is it not ? The two highest
together, the two lowest together, and the intermediate in the
same way. Please remember the main thought, that these Lokas
and Talas are Worlds. They are not mere states only, which
means nothing. An entity possesses or is in a state, but a state
does not exist per se or “ by itself ” . That idea arises out of the
fondness of our European minds for entifying abstractions. A
state is an abstraction. It must be held or possessed or developed
by some entity in order to be anything.
And finally, please remember this, that each one of these Lokas
and each one of these Talas produces the following lower one of
the scale from itself, as pointed out before when we studied briefly
the Elements. The highest of either line projects or sends forth
the next lower. It, in addition to its own particular characteristic
or Swabhava, contains also within itself the nature of the one
above it, its Parent, and also sends forth the one lower than it,
the third in the line downwards. And so on down the scale. So
that each one of the Principles or Elements is likewise sevenfold,
containing in itself the sub-elements of that or those of which it
is the reflexion from above.
CHAPTER XXXVIII
DEGENERATION AND CLOSING OF THE SCHOOLS OF THE MYSTERIES.
NEO-PYTHAGOREAN AND NEO-PLATONIC SYSTEMS : MAIN
SOURCES OF CHRISTIAN THEOLOGY. ESOTERIC AND EXOTERIC
TEACHINGS : SYMBOLISM.
There never was, nor can there be, more than one universal religion; for
there can be but one truth concerning God. Like an immense chain whose upper
end, the alpha, remains invisibly emanating from a Deity— in statu abscondito
with every primitive theology— it encircles our globe in every direction ; it
leaves not even the darkest corner unvisited, before the other end, the omega,
turns back on its way to be again received where it first emanated. On this
divine chain was strung the exoteric symbology of every people. Their variety
of form is powerless to affect their substance, and under their diverse ideal types
of the universe of matter, symbolizing its vivifying principles, the uncorrupted
immaterial image of the spirit of being guiding them is the same.
Thus it is that all the religious monuments of old, in whatever land or under
whatever climate, are the expression of the same identical thoughts, the key to
\\hich is in the esoteric doctrino.
Isis Unveiled (H. P. Blavatsky) I, pp. 560, 561.
The inference to be drawn from all this is, that the made-up and dogmatic
Christianity of the Constantinian period is simply an offspring of the numerous
conflicting sects, half-castes themselves, born of Pagan parents.
Ibid., II, p. 334.
But to assert that Christianity communicated to man moral truths previously
unknown, argues, on the part of the asserter, either gross ignorance or else wilful
fraud* History of Civilization (H. T. Buckle) I, p. 180.
P
ROBABLY there are few things that human beings are
so irritable about as the various issues involved in
questioning an accepted religion. Outside of the fact
that every one knows that religious wars have always
been the bloodiest and bitterest in history ; even in ordinary life,
if a man's religious beliefs, or even his vague religious views, are
touched upon adversely, there is aroused in him a feeling of
antagonism. In well-bred men and women this antagonism does
not go far, because they are willing to concede to another a view
different from their own ; but, sadly enough, it would seem that
there is very little good breeding in matters of religious feeling.
No man likes to feel that his religion is subject to derision or
mockery, because of course to him his religion is the “ true
religion It has always been so among the adherents of any
religion. It is only the wiser ones who are willing to see a view
which a fellow-man sees, and to consider it honestly, desirous of
arriving at some knowledge of what the critic or the speaker
himself believes, or sees.
417
418 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Especially is this so in all the various branches of Occidental
religious thought, derived, as we know, from Christianity and
Judaism. The old religions, the religions of the ancient world,
had their popular mythologies, which the people believed in ; and
some of these old religions are still extant today in the Orient
and elsewhere. But even among those who were not initiated
into the Mysteries, which gave men a wider vision of truth and a
deeper knowledge of human nature, even among those who had
nothing to live by except the various mythologies, and who
today have nothing to live by except the various mythologies,
in all these religions, excepting the Christian, there is a feeling
among their adherents that the other man may know something
of value, too. I have often wondered how much in our own
Society (the Theosophical Movement, that is) this spirit of
Christian and quasi-Jewish antagonism against another man’s
belief actually exists among ourselves.
Surely no one in our own holy Order here would hesitate a mo­
ment, or would wish to pause, before giving to a Comrade the right
to think or believe differently from himself. If one were to hear
a Comrade express a view which might seem “ unorthodox ” to
my view or to your view, what would be the proper attitude for
us to take ? Do as Paul the Christian said. Listen, and if the
view expressed is good, that is, something that you know to be
good from the teachings we have derived from our Teachers, then
take it. That Comrade may have a view a little nigher to the
Truth than yours or mine— a view which goes a little deeper
inwards towards Reality.
Now, this spirit of religious bigotry, of course, has resulted, as
we all know, in the various religious persecutions, in the various
torturings— physical or other— and inquisitorial actions of the
bigots in temporary power. You find nothing like that in any
of the ancient religions of the globe, neither in present nor in
past times. Why should it have been and even yet be in the
religion of the Occident ? As said before, it must certainly lie in
the fact that the adherents thereof have lost the key to the inner
knowledge of their own religious beliefs ; and this dates very far
back. We find Gregory Nazianzen, canonized as one of the saints
of the Christian Church, writing to Jerome, another saint of
the Church, his friend and confidant, about the way doctrines
should be taught, and this is what he says : “ Nothing imposes
better on people than verbiage, for the less they understand the
more they admire. Our Fathers and teachers often have taught,
not what they thought, but that which necessity and circumstance
obliged them to say.” If we compare this with the spirit which
motivated the great religions of past times, we realize that among
the initiates of the latter the very expression of a thought which
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 419
they felt contrary to truth was uttered to the prejudice of a man's
own soul; that living as " whited sepulchres ” , to use the
Christian symbol, i.e.f living as hypocrites, living a living lie, was
considered the one thing that most effectively shriveled the soul
of a man, that ate out the core of his being, and rendered him
utterly unfit, not merely for an appreciation of the deeper
mysteries which lie within nature and within man himself, but
likewise utterly unfit to undergo the least of the tests preceding
the actual trials of the initiation-ceremonies.
Even at the time when the Christian religion is supposed first to
have begun its career, although the Mysteries, the initiation-
systems, had greatly degenerated, they still retained more or
less of the ancient spiritual fire, and of the ancient truths. So
that even a Roman Emperor, Nero, master of the Western world,
was told to his face that he was unfit to pass through the rites at
Eleusis, and he dared not go there for that purpose. And Nero
was by no means as bad a man as his Christian critics have tried
to make him out to have been. We have no wish to whitewash
a black character, but he was by no means, and we repeat it, as
black in his life or in the things he did, as some men who pass
muster as near-canonized saints in the hagiological lists of
Christendom.
For one thousand years, beginning from the time of Pythagoras,
and ending about the time of Justinian, the night of an incoming
dark cycle was beginning to settle upon the world ; and this
period is cut in twain at just about the time when the birth of
Jesus is supposed to have occurred. Pythagoras lived in the
sixth century before the reputed beginning of our era, i.e., the
present era that is accepted by Occidental peoples ; and Justinian
lived in the sixth century after the beginning of that era; and
it was in his age, and by his order, that the last of the Mystery-
Schools was closed at Athens, and seven men fled at peril of their
lives, to Khosru the Great, king of Persia, and lived there in peace
and dignity and honor at his court, until, due to the whirl of the
wheel of circumstance, Khosru, victor in his war against Justinian,
as one condition of the peace which Justinian purchased with
money, laid it down that these seven philosophers were to be
allowed to return to their own country in peace and to live in
peace, and to die in peace ; and so it was.
Compare that noble spirit with the spirit manifest on the other
side, and you have a slight vision of the inspiration which dwelt
in what was called the ancient initiatory life, and of the spirit
which has hovered over the Western World ever since that Year
One of our era, so called, the Christian era.
Now this does not mean that the slightest aspersion is hereby
cast upon the character of the so-called Jesus. Not one word
420 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
would a true Theosophist ever say against the character of that
great and noble man, nor against the teachings supposed to
emanate from him personally. But it is probable that the
Theosophic attempt which Jesus attempted to initiate, did not
endure for fifty years after his death. Almost immediately after
his passing, his disciples, all half-instructed, and in some cases
almost illiterate, men (when I say “ half-instructed ” I mean
having very little knowledge of the teachings which their great
Master attempted to give them), foisted upon the world of their
time the forms and beliefs of early Christianity; and had there
been nothing but these, that religious system had not lived
another fifty years. But what happened ? During the oncoming
of the dark cycle after Jesus (which began as before said about
the time of Pythagoras) the last few rays from the setting sun
of the Ancient Light shone feebly in the minds of certain of these
Christian Fathers, Clement of Alexandria for one, and Origen of
Alexandria for another, and in one or two more like these, who had
been initiated at least in the lowest of some of the then degenerate
Pagan Mysteries ; and these men entered into the Christian
Church, and introduced some poor modicum of that Light, some
poor rays of it, as it were, which they still cherished ; and these
rays they derived mainly from the Neo-Pythagorean and the
Neo-Platonic systems.
People speak of Christianity as if it were wholly derived from
Judaism. Very little of it is. It is, in its theology, almost wholly
derived from misunderstood Greek thought, mainly, as said, from
the Neo-Pythagorean and Neo-Platonic systems; and this is
obvious to anyone who reads the writings of those who are called
the great doctors of Christian theology, such as Dionysius, the
so-called Areopagite, whose system is, in essentials, entirely
taken from the Neo-Platonic philosophy. Mainly derived from
him, again, are the present standard theological works of the
Church of Rome : I mean the works of Thomas Aquinas. These
are today the standard by which the theology of Rome is directed
and settled when disputed points are to be adjudicated. And
yet, while this is so, and while much of that which was taken
over by the early Christian Fathers still remains as factors and
words in the Christian theology, it has utterly forgotten the
spirit of these early pagan thoughts, and that religion today
stands reduced to a system of forms and ceremonies, mostly.
Now this is the situation that we in our Order are facing in the
Occident, and above everything else it is our duty to bring back
the old spiritual life, the old spiritual fire, the holy fire of the
ancient days, to our fellow-men : not to make the world “ pagan ”
again— if we can use that term " pagan ” in the sense of reintro­
ducing the old Greek or Roman mythology— not at a ll; nor t(
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 421
make it Buddhist in the sense of introducing the present Buddhist
religion ; nor the Brahmanical; nor the Zoroastrian ; because
all these in their turn are more or less degenerate ; but to bring
back the essence of true Religion, the living truths, which all
the great Masters of the world from immemorial time have
taught.
We meet here again and again and our thoughts doubtless
follow many different lines, but we must all have thought more or
less of what our present Teacher doubtless had in mind when she
inaugurated these our present studies, sowing in them seeds for
a harvest so great in the future that our present imaginations
possibly can hardly take them in, even in thought.
The Christians say that the blood of the saints, the blood of the
martyrs, is the “ seed of the Church Let us so live that our
lives shall be the seed of the great Church or Fellowship of the
future. Ethics lie at the root of it a ll; Ethics, in the heart and
mind of man, are the spiritual light shining through his intellect.
They are a guide, a light unto our feet when honestly practised,
unfailing, giving infinite peace to the human heart. When we
say “ ethics ” and “ morals ” we do not mean merely conventional
systems of right conduct, though those may be good also. We
mean the cultivation of the understanding, of the instinct living in
the soul of man, of his intuitional perception, that Right is Right,
and Wrong is Wrong, outside of any conventional systems what­
soever, and that if a man errs, he works, not only to his own
undoing, but to the undoing of others with whom he is inseparably
linked.
We have been studying at our last few meetings, the theme of
Gods, Monads, and Atoms, and we have seen that these are
related to and causative of the evolution of the Kosmos by their
interworking in the Lokas and Talas— and we have seen that these
Lokas and Talas comprise the structure, the framework, the
carpentry, of the universe ; that they infill space, and in fact are
Space itself. There is not, in the absolute sense, a void point
anywhere. All Being is infilled with swarming multitudes of
entities in the various and manifold degrees of development in
which they find themselves. But all follow certain general rules
of order, certain fundamental operations of the Kosmos, which
are called in popular parlance, “ natural laws ” . We have seen
that the energy-consciousness side is the side of the Principles;
and that the matter-prakriti side, or the Element-side, is the side
of the Talas, as the former— the Principles— are of the Lokas :
and yet these are inseparable, these Lokas and Talas, each involved
with each, the two highest together and the two lowest together,
and those between in similar manner, two by two, as inseparable
as the two poles of a magnet; you cannot have a magnet with
422 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
only one pole ; as inseparable also as good and evil, as are light
and darkness. In fact, these Lokas and Talas are an expression
kosmically of what we call the System of Opposites, of Contraries,
which is another way of expressing duality in Nature. They are
interlinked from the uppermost or highest down to the lowest;
and it is by passing through these Principles and Elements,
through these Lokas and Talas, that the life-waves, the streams
of beings, undergo their evolution, acquire their experience.
There are no separations or voids between the hosts of the various
Hierarchies in the Kosmos, which is another way of expressing
the same thing. They blend into each other, let us say, if you like;
at least as a first suggestion for understanding. They blend
together by and through their atmospheres, the outermost
atmosphere of one interpenetrating and interblending more
particularly with the outermost atmosphere of its superior or of
its inferior Loka or Tala, as the case may be ; and the thought
here is of “ atmospheres ” or auras within each other, inwardly,
not mere mechanical junctions of atmospheres on any one
plane.
These innumerable hosts, these swarming multitudes of beings,
which infill space and are Space itself, work downwards along the
Arc of the Shadows in their so-called “ descent ” into matter ;
and then, when they have reached the bottom of the Grand
Cycle in any manvantara, they turn, because having reached
the lowest point possible as regards that Hierarchy, they cannot
go farther down in it. This is a question which we must go into
more fully in the future. Please accept it for the moment as a
proposition. Thus, having reached that bottom-point, that utmost
point of materiality, for that particular cycle of evolution of
matter and involution of spirit, they turn and begin the homeward
course, “ ascending ” through the Lokas and Talas as they
" came down ” through them, and this ascent is the involution of
matter and the evolution of spirit, or, to put it in other words,
matter resolves itself again into the spirit which it funda­
mentally is.
There is no difference in Occultism between force and matter,
except in degree of materiality or grossness ; there is no difference
of kind at all. There is no difference between spirit and substance,
except in degree, no difference in kind at all. Both are funda­
mentally one ; and both, when the long ages of the manvantaric
cycle shall have ended, both, I say, shall sink back again into the
infinite womb of the Great Void, the Maha-Sunyata, which we
have studied at a former meeting, that is to say, back into the
illimitable Kosmos of the spiritual realms, which is “ void "
to our lower natures, but actually an ineffable Pleroma or Fullness
to the divine Eye within us.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 423
It is through the working and interaction respectively of the
Gods and the Monads and the Souls and the Atoms, that the
various globes of our Planetary Chain, and of any other Planetary
Chain, and the various Lokas and Talas pertaining thereto, come
into being. These latter are the vehicles of the former: their
garments of light, if you like, on the higher planes, and their bodies
so-called on the. lower planes. They are projected, out-thrown,
cast forth, emanated, from these Gods, Monads, Souls, and Atoms.
Please remember that when we say “ atom ” we do not mean the
chemical “ atom ” of modern scientific thought. That " atom ”
is, as said before, rather an aggregate of atomic elements. We
mean by the term a vital-astral entity. At the heart of it is its
monad. At the heart of that monad is its god, and that god is
but a ray of the supreme Summit of the Hierarchy to which it
belongs.
Remember that any such Hierarchy is but one of an endless
multitude of others similar to i t ; yea, there are others so much
greater than it, be it as great as your imagination can make it,
that it itself seems by comparison but as a grain of sand on the
shores of an infinite sea. It is so, even in the outer spaces of
astronomy, which the instruments of the astronomers can, or
at least attempt to, penetrate. There are Kosmoi, Kosmoses, so
much greater than our own Universal Kosmos (which comprises
everything within the zone of the Milky Way) beyond our
Universe, that our entire Universal Kosmos could be placed in
one of them and lost; and, on the other hand, there is an actual
universe at the core of every one of the tiniest atoms of our
physical make-up, an actual universe infilled with its own hier­
archies, its own endless hosts of beings.
Remember, please, that bulk, volume, size, have nothing
whatsoever to do with consciousness, nor with force. And
greater than that thought is this; that the worlds we see, the
universe we see, are but the rind, the shell, the husk of the
greater part which lies within. We see these things around us ;
they are repeated by reflexion from what is within. Remember
the old Hermetic axiom, “ As above, so below. As below, so
above ” .
We were speaking of initiations and Mysteries a few moments
agone, and perhaps some may have wondered, Are there no
records left of these ? There are many ; but, alas, people do not
know how to find them. The ordinary scholar takes such state­
ments as he finds them in his books as simply examples, samples,
rather, of what he calls the “ unexampled superstition of past
ages He knows everything! Our little mental world of
100 or 150 or 200 years, is the sutnmum bonum, the ne plus ultra,
to such minds ; everything that preceded that short period was
424 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
ignorance and superstition ; but there are some men and women
who have intellects greater than those, intuitions livelier than
those, and they have felt and seen at least somewhat of the truth
in reading these records of bygone times.
I have personally seen statements in such old records which are
amazingly bold and open. For instance, I make mention of two
things found in articles or poems written by our Comrade,
Professor Kenneth Morris, in these cases taken from some of
the old Welsh writings, and I have marveled that such things were
left open, simply marveled at i t ; but when you read a little
more you find that the allusion is so masterly interwoven with
cognate subjects, true but having no direct bearing upon that
blazing star of light that springs forth to the eye here and there,
that these other cognate subjects actually hide the esoteric star
of light, and our modern reader simply reads in such case as he
would a fine modern poem, and he sees nothing more. There are
none so blind as those who want to be blind !
Again : One of our professors of Greek once wrote an interest­
ing article on some phase of the ancient Greek thought, and it
came into me as sub-editor of our monthly magazine during one
of our Teacher’s absences abroad. This Comrade had put
together two statements taken from two different Greek authors.
He had seen a sudden flash of light, and was fascinated by it.
In his studies of the Greek literature he saw though darkly the
connexion and placed these two extracts together, and doubtless
imagined that he had made a discovery. And he had. Perhaps
it was by accident, but there it was. Now what was I to do ?
There I was faced with a difficult situation : sworn not to let such
things go out publicly, and yet, on the other hand, every true
disciple of our Teacher never wilfully blinds the light of a Com­
rade. I wrote to our Comrade, our Greek professor, and told him
that the article was extremely interesting. I did not question
the truth of anything that was contained in the extracts he had
made, but the contrary ; but I could not at the moment see my
way to putting the article in the magazine as it w as; and I
suggested a compromise ; I acted upon my thought and returned
the article to him with the two extracts separated. I deliberately
pulled apart the two sections, the two extracts, in his article,
which joined gave a key to a mystery. He wrote back that he
regretted very deeply that this had to be done ; he was sorry I
could not see the truth which was in these things, for he knew it
was true, he felt it was true, but under the circumstances, as I
was sub-editor, and he presumed that the Leader had authorized
me to mutilate articles, he was satisfied. The poor man doubtless
thought that the sub-editor was the sort of man of whom one
may read in various criticisms of critics of literary efforts.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 425
I will take a third instance. Our Comrade, Professor
Osvald Sirdn, in a very interesting lecture he gave on Chinese-
Buddhist art a few days ago, twice or thrice, perhaps, mentioned
two things which are extremely interesting, and they were placed
in direct conjunction. You remember he told us in his description
— it was a most interesting and instructive lecture— of the various
postures of these Buddhist statues of the Buddhas and Bodhisat-
twas, that the Bodhisattwas wore what he called “ crowns ” ;
and he called attention to the headgear, as represented in these
statues of the Buddhas, and he called it the Ushntsha. This is a
Sanskrit word, and it comes from the Sanskrit root Ush, which
means “ to be warm ” , “ to be hot ” , ‘‘ to be flaming ”, or
" fiery ” . Ushntsha is also used in the sense of “ turban ” ,
because this particular headgear, given to these Buddha-statues
somewhat resembles a turban. It is of spiral conical form, some­
what like the spiral shell of some snails.
One of the most interesting and instructive aspects of ancient
thought— and it should be of our studies likewise— is that of
symbology. It has been very truly said by one of our Comrades,
that once an esoteric thought has been vocally expressed or
printed, it is exoteric. Of course that is true. That is a fact.
But let us not lose sight of another fact, that while a thing, an
esoteric truth, may be proclaimed from the house-tops, unless
it is understood, it still remains esoteric, although in form, formally,
it is exoteric.
I think it was Aristotle who first used these words “ esoteric ”
and " exoteric ” , meaning that which is inward, and that which
is outward and formal. Of course, that distinction is a true one ;
yet if you examine the literatures, the symbology of the ancient
literatures, philosophies, and sciences, with the understanding
given to us by our own esoteric teachings, you will find that while
the symbolism is exoteric because it has been published, it still
remains esoteric because it is unexplained, its meaning is still
hid.
Now will you please recall to your minds that two years ago,
I think it was, acting upon our Teacher’s instructions, we once
spoke of the fact that practically the entire life of the ancient
world in all its branches, religious, scientific, philosophic, social,
political, what not, was ultimately based on knowledge derived
from the Mysteries. This fact is so true and goes so far in reach,
that, for an example, even the dread crucifixion-punishment of
the Persians, Carthaginians, and Romans, a punishment to which
only criminals or foreigners were ever subjected, in early times,
as a form, arose in the initiatory ceremonies.
Now to return more directly to the subject of the " crown ”
and the Ushntsha on the Buddhas’ heads. The crown, you will
426 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
remember, in that former meeting of which I have spoken we
pointed out to be the symbolic sign of one who had passed a
certain degree in initiation. He who was “ crowned ” was an
initiate of a certain grade; and this was expressed by saying
that he wore a crown. This wearing of crowns has passed into
our own European life. The monarchs are crowned, and at their
coronations they ignorantly repeat a very, very ancient ceremony,
meaning then a great deal, meaning now nothing. And the
wearing or use of crowns, at least as a decoration on rings or
letter-paper, is still retained by European nobility in the form of
coronets. Originally it meant that the one so entitled to use the
one or the other of these various crowns, had passed a certain
grade of initiation, and in some cases a high initiation too, if you
please. The Bodhisattwas were those who were crowned with
the Buddhicfire, which was symbolized by the wearing of a diadem
or a crown, or something similar. The crown, actually, if you
examine its earliest forms in iconography, in iconographic works,
you will see evidently originated in two ideas, one of which was
the sun, used as a symbol, with its spreading rays; so much so
that some of the late studies or art-works of the very last age of
the ancient times, that of the Romans, show one or more of the
emperors for instance with a halo or a nimbus at the back of his
head, from which spikes spread out, making a crown or repre­
senting the solar rays. The solar rite, if you like to call it that,
was thus symbolized; and the halo or nimbus back of the heads
of the Buddha-statues, a fact-symbol copied by the Christians
likewise, originated from a fact well known to the ancients, and
even spoken of in the exoteric literature as it has come down to
us today. This fact— and this is the second idea or truth men­
tioned above— is that a saint, as the Christians would say, a holy
man, as we may say, i.e., one who is in the state of deep samadhi,
which you all know of or which you all understand the meaning
of, has his head surrounded with these auric streams, these rays
from the vital inner fire, which form a glory around his head, and
sometimes even around the entire body. They stream upwards
from the back of the head, often symbolically represented in the
Buddha-iconography as one single, lambent flame soaring upwards
from and over the top of the skull. In this case you may perhaps
find that the Ushnisha is missing, its place being taken by this
flame issuing from the top of the head, a symbolic representation
of the fire of the spirit and of the aroused and active Buddhic
faculty in which the man is at the time.
You see how beautiful these thoughts are, how much there is
merely in studying the outward symbology of these old beliefs.
How often have I heard this very Ushnisha mocked at by Occi­
dentals, derided with more or less gentle sarcasm, but certainly
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 427
it was derision. Such mockery comes from a lack of understand­
ing. It pays— even to put it on the personal, selfish plane,— it
pays to understand and study symbology! There is one more
explanation of the Ushnisha, the most secret of all, which we
mention but pass over at present. It refers to the popular belief
that the Ushnisha is an excrescence or protuberance of the skull
itself.
Now, there are a few more things which we ought to inau­
gurate tonight as a prelude and introduction to the beginning of
our study when we next meet. Let me first read from The
Secret Doctrine, Volume I, page 569, the following extract:
. . . the ancient Initiates, who were followed more or less closely by
all profane antiquity, meant by the term “ Atom
,”a Soul, a Genius or
Angel, the first-born of the ever-concealed Cause of all causes; and in
this sense their teachings become comprehensible. They claimed, as do
their successors, the existence of Gods and Genii, angels or “ demons,”
not outside, or independent of, the Universal P len u m , but within it.
Only this P len u m , during the life-cycles, is infinite.
We have soon to close our study this evening, but let us first
point out that in our use of the term “ atom ” , as H. P. Blavatsky
always used it, we employ it as, and give it the same general
meaning that, the ancient Greek philosophers did from whom we
derive the word. If you remember, it means that which cannot be
divided ; so, then, it was the ultimate particle of substance; and
this indivisible atom did not at all mean the atom in our modern,
scientific, chemical sense. It meant rather what we called the
monad, which was the name given to the spiritual One by Pytha­
goras, and meant exactly the same thing that atom originally did,
the word used by the old Greek Atomists, such as Democritus,
Leucippus, Epicurus, and Lucretius of Italy, and by such as they,
albeit the Atomistic sense was more materialistic than ours.
Furthermore, this word atom is used by us in a general sense,
frequently. We have spoken of the sun as an atom, and we
have spoken of the earth as an atom, and we have called attention
to the fact that the ancient Hindus in their writings, called Brahma
(the third hypostasis, so to say, of the Divine Brahman) the Kosmic
Atom. The idea is that this Kosmic Atom is “ Brahma’s Egg ” ,
from which the universe shall spring into manifested being, as
from the egg the chick comes forth, in its turn to lay another
egg. Each of these Kosmic Eggs or Universes gives birth, after
its rest-period has ended, to its own offspring, each of the former
derived in similar manner from its own former manvantaric
egg-
And a common doctrine among the ancients all over the
world, in Hindfisthan or in Greece or Rome, wherever it may
428 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
have been, was, as so beautifully expressed in a poem by
Cleanthes, the Stoic:
" Zeus is all that is. Whate’er you see or know or sense or feel
is Zeus. Zeus is all within and all without.” Therefore not an
atom but is Zeus; as also every potentiality of the infinite
Kosmos, as of all Kosmoi; for every universe or kosmos is but
one of the vast and incomputable swarms of living entities which
fill the Spaces of endless and beginningless Space.
CHAPTER X X X IX
THEOSOPHY AND OCCULTISM. OCCULTISM : THE QUINTESSENCE
OF TRUTH,'REALITY : A COMPLETE WHOLE. OCCULTISM AND
MORAL RESPONSIBILITY. OUR SOLAR SYSTEM : A KOSMIC
ATOM " EGG OF BRAHMA.”
It is easy to become a Theosophist. Any person of average intellectual
capacities and a leaning toward the meta-physical; of pure, unselfish life, who
finds more joy in helping his neighbour than in receiving help himself ; one who
is ever ready to sacrifice his own pleasures for the sake of other people ; and who
loves Truth, Goodness, and Wisdom for their own sake, not for the benefit they
may confer— is a Theosophist.
But it is quite another matter to put oneself upon the path which leads to
the knowledge of what is good to do, as to the right discrimination of good from
evil ; a path which also leads a man to that power through which he can do the
good he desires, often without even apparently lifting a finger.
Practical Occultism, H. P. B l a v a t s k y (Lucifer, II, p. 150).
Occultism is not the acquirement of powers, whether psychic or intellectual,
though both are its servants. Neither is Occultism the pursuit of happiness,
as men understand the word, for the first step is sacrifice, the second, renunciation.
Lucifer, I, p. 7.
Our philosophy of life is one grand whole, every part necessary and fitting
into every other part. Every one of its doctrines can and must be carried to its
ultimate conclusion. Its ethical application must proceed similarly. If it
conflict with old opinions those must be cast off. It can never conflict with true
morality. The spirit of Theosophy must be sought for ; a sincere application
of its principles to life and act should be made. Thus mechanical Theosophy,
which inevitably leads— as in many cases it already has— to a negation of brother­
hood, will be impossible, and instead there will be a living, actual Theosophy.
William Q. Judge.
Charaka, a Hindft physician, who is said to have lived 5000 years b .c., in his
treatise on the origin of things . . . thus beautifully expresses himself : “ Our
Earth is, like all the luminous bodies that surround us, one of the atoms of the
immense Whole of which we show a slight conception by terming it— the
Infinite."
Isis Unveiled (H. P. Blavatsky), Vol. I, p. 560.
O
CCULTISM, as our Masters have told us, and as our
Brother, H. P. Blavatsky, has told us, is that sublime
Wisdom delivered to the early races of mankind by
exalted Beings from other Lokas ; and while in our
modern times to this Wisdom has been given the name of
“ Occultism ” , that is the science of things which are secret or hid,
and while that name has its correspondence in other languages, as
in the Sanskrit Gupt&-Vidy&, in the form in which it has been
presented to the public in our age, it is called Theosophy. One
may ask oneself: Is there any intrinsic difference between
429
2 F
430 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Occultism and Theosophy ? I think we m ay say very fairly and
justly that there is not, that fundamentally the two are one, two
names for one thing. B ut H. P. B lavatsky very wisely made a
distinction, superficial if you like, but convenient, between
Occultism and Theosophy, and this distinction was thought of in
connexion with the three grades of members of the Theosophical
Movement. First, the members of the Theosophical Society,
who are neither Theosophists nor Occultists necessarily, but who
are those who so greatly admire our broad and universal platform,
who are so much in sym pathy with the ideals which Theosophy
sets forth, that they have thrown in their lot with us, and work
with us. The second class comprises the Theosophists, that is to
say, those who are more than mere members of the Theosophical
S o ciety; they are those who study the particular and certain
doctrines which in our time have been called Theosophical, and
which represent the “ Eye-Doctrine ” , as Gautama the Buddha
called it, in other words, the publication for the public weal of
certain chosen and specified doctrines of Occultism, fit for public
dissemination in our age. Lastly, the third class is ourselves,
those who belong to our own holy Order, who have given them­
selves in a larger, in a deeper, and in a more heartful degree than
the other two classes of us have done, to that sublime Wisdom,
as we call it above, which has come down to us from immemorial
time as the revelation, if we m ay use that word, of the truths of
the Kosmos, and of course of Man as a part thereof.
This, then, is the distinction, such as it is, between Theosophy
and Occultism. The Theosophical doctrines are more generally
for the public, yet they are chosen from the doctrines of Occult­
ism ; they are the doctrines which are most fit for public dis­
semination in our age, as already said.
Now the unfortunate part of this m atter is the follow ing:
everything that is of human nature, or which springs from the
heart or brain of mankind, is de facto subject to imitation or even
to degeneration ; and consequently this name Occultism, a truly
noble name in its real meaning, is often greatly, even vilely,
misused and m isunderstood; it is bandied about in the news­
papers, and passes from mouth to mouth as signifying little more
than the so-called psychistic or wonderment-doctrines on which
the public feeds so avidly. That use is a degradation of the
original sense. A ll things which really satisfy the heart and mind
of man must be of necessity true in degree, otherwise they could
not so sa tisfy ; but, as we all know, men's minds and hearts
sometimes feed on mere “ husks ” , as it is expressed in the
Christian New Testament— feed on husks which the “ swine ” eat.
Y ou know what the symbolic expression “ swine ” means. W e
have spoken of it before, so we need not now allude to it again.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 431
But the point which I wish to impress upon our minds in this
connexion is, that Occultism is the exposition of the very essence,
the quintessence, of Truth, of Reality. It cannot be studied by the
higher mind alone, nor can it be studied alone by those other
faculties in man which he classes under the generic heading of
" feelings But it must be studied as a complete whole, and it
answers fully to all demands of man’s entire spiritual and psycho­
logical composition, and is therefore entirely and utterly satis­
factory. It provides man not merely with a basis for the noblest
system of ethics the world knows, but describes to him what those
ethics are, and on what they are founded, and what the due and
perfect practice of them will lead to ; and that leading, we are
told, is along that old, small Path, of which the Hindfi Upanishads
speak— for those who follow it finally come into direct connexion
and into confabulation with the all-wise and calm-eyed gods;
for that Path leads us directly to the Heart of the Universe— the
“ heart ” in the mystical and esoteric sense : into those places,
into those spiritual, super-spiritual, and divine, regions where is
the core of the being of each one of us.
The various great religions of the present and of the past times
have sprung forth from the doctrines of Occultism ; each one of
such religions in its germinal stage, in its beginning, was the
spiritual offspring of some great and noble man, one of our
Masters, indeed, who taught publicly during the particular period
when he appeared among men openly for the salvation of his
fellows, giving them anew, once again, the age-old truths, or, it
may be, but a newer version of the ancient light to them, eluci­
dating the great problems concerning the Kosmos and Man,
which to those who have not received such light, so harass the
human heart, and, it may be, the human intellect, with an urgency
demanding solution. Such a movement was started in our time
by our great-souled Brother, H. P. Blavatsky. It depends upon
us almost wholly at the present time, and will in the future so
depend very largely, whether that effort is to fail as all religions
in the past, save one, have failed, more or less ; or whether it is
to go forward successfully, doing the work it was intended to do,
planting the seeds of right thinking and right action, of human
brotherhood, and of universal kindliness, in the hearts of all who
follow i t ; or whether, following the left-hand path, the path of
matter, it is to go down and possibly become even an instrument
of the Brothers of the Shadows.
Our Teachers have told us plainly, and our present Teacher
fully as much as her two predecessors, though perhaps in more
disguised words, that the study of Occultism involves a great
moral responsibility : that it places such a responsibility upon the
shoulders of him or of her who studies it, because it awakens the
433 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
inner man: it awakens his hid powers. And, furthermore,
precisely proportionate to a man’s earnestness is its study
productive of good, or, it may be, of the reverse. Occultism
cannot be trifled with. It deals with direct and original
things, if you understand these terms, not with reflected truths.
Hence, unless a man’s heart be absolutely pure— I mean by that,
clean of all personal selfishness— he never is safe. There can be no
trifling with it. It calls out of a man all he is inwardly, and brooks
no half-way loyalty.
As said to us so many times, the two paths lie always at our
feet; at every step they diverge, one to the right and one to the
left; and one single act may induce a habit, which will make a
character, in time, by repetition ; and that character is you or I,
for it is the exercise of knowledge (or half-knowledge) and will.
It is for these reasons that our beloved Teacher has instructed
me time and again to refer to the necessity of understanding
clearly what we mean by morals, and that there is the utmost need
for their practice by each one of us, by you and by me, every
moment of our lives. Such practice does not mean merely the
hypocritical assent of the mentality, with a mental reservation
that “ finally I shall do as I please ” . That field of mental
reservations is precisely where the Brothers of the Shadows make
their conquests of the hearts of men, on just such lines as those.
I tell you with all solemnity, that the warning should be, must
be, heeded.
Now, Comrades, let us open our study tonight by reminding
ourselves of the fact that the Lokas and the Talas of which we
have spoken at our several last meetings, as concerns the earth,
are its seven Principles and its seven Elements respectively ; and
as concerns the Kosmos precisely the same may be said. Further­
more, that the seven Kosmical Lokas and seven Kosmical Talas
comprise the entirety, the totality, of all that is in our solar
system, which is the Kosmic Atom. In other words, they
comprise the totality of the Egg of Brahma. You know the
meaning of that fine old Brahmanical symbol, the Egg, a symbol
which is found likewise in other religions, such as the Orphic
system in Greece, and the Egyptian system ; and we know from
the representations we have of the earth-Mounds, that anciently
it was equally well recognised in North America.
Now, when we speak of the Kosmic Atom— when we speak of
the Egg of Brahma, which is another way of saying the same
thing— when we speak of it as being the solar system, please know
that we do not mean the planets together, or the sun alone, or the
sun and planets together, which last form merely the outward
rind or shell, as it were (or, if we may use a physiological term, the
nerve-centers, the ganglia, of the physiological operations), of this
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 433
Egg of Brahma. When we speak of the Kosmic Atom, and
inferentially of the atom of matter as we know it on this earth,
we mean the vital-astral entity behind it, that particular entity
considered as a unity, which gives it its life, its swabhava, that is,
its particular or individual characteristic, that which differentiates
if from other similar Kosmic Eggs or Kosmic Atoms. We may
also speak of our earth as Brahma's Egg, but this is by analogy ;
the real Egg of Brahma is the solar system.
We have said above and have also said at other studies, that
these Lokas and Talas are the seven Principles and the seven
Elements of our globe, our globe Terra ; but there are other seven
Lokas and other seven Talas which are respectively the seven
Principles and the seven Elements of each one of the other six
globes of our Planetary Chain, seven of each, to each. One may ask
oneself, if one has not studied Occultism, why there should be so
much of the sevening process in our studies : why our doctrines
should continually run in sevenfold aggregates. The answer of
Occultism is, because Nature has so builded her structures.
Outside of such obvious things as the seven principal colors of the
light spectrum and the seven rays of the sun (which is almost the
same thing), and the seven notes of the diatonic scale in music,
and the fact known to students of physiology that many diseases
run in cycles of seven days or multiples thereof— leaving these
things aside, we find in studying the ancient literatures as showing
forth the religions, philosophies, and sciences of the past times,
that while they all state the fact under different forms un­
doubtedly, they all agree more or less unanimously in ascribing
to the structural framework of the universe and of man, the same
system of seven component parts.
This question of numeration is one which we have laid no
foundation for at present, and therefore we postpone it for longer
consideration to a future time, Comrades. Suffice it then for the
present to accept it as a proposition for study. You yourselves
can prove what has been said. The literatures of the world lie
open before you. Read them and study them, and you will be
convinced as all other sincere students have been convinced
who have done it. Remember what “ proof" is. “ Proof " is pre­
ponderance of evidence bringing conviction to the mind. Study
therefore the evidences and prove the facts.
Now the Gods, Monads, and Atoms work through the Kosmic
Egg inwards and outwards, that is, they work through the Lokas
and Talas. As H. P. Blavatsky says in the first volume of
The Secret Doctrine, on page 619 :
“ God, Monad, and Atom are the correspondences of Spirit, Mind,
and Body (Atmd, Manas, andSthula-Sartra) in man." In their septenary
aggregation they are the " Heavenly Man." (See Qabb&lcth for the latter
434 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
term); thus, terrestrial man isthe provisional reflection of the Heavenly
, . . " The Monads (Jivas) are the Souls of the Atoms, both are the
fabric in which the Chohans (Dhy&nis, gods) clothe themselves when a
form is needed.0
They so clothe themselves, in order, as pointed out in our former
studies of the Gods, Monads, Souls, and Atoms, to evolve forth
the universe ; as the Hindi! Upanishad puts it, as a spider spins
a web. That is a beautiful symbol. From out of themselves,
from their own substance, they weave the geometrical pattern
of the Kosmos and therein work.
The study of the structure or frame-work of our Kosmic Atom
is a vast, profound, and intricate subject, and before we can
properly do it justice in any sort of study, it would seem better
first to undertake at least a cursory examination— for at this point
we have now arrived in our studies— of the building of our own
Globe, as a part of the Planetary Chain in which it is one of the
seven links. Indeed, let us go a little farther than that, and study
the working of the Life-Waves of and in our Planetary Chain.
Our Planetary Chain, as said before, may itself be considered the
Egg of Brahma, the Kosmic Egg, the fruit of its parent, i.e.t the
Planetary Chain of the preceding Manvantara ; and it itself is to
be the parent of its own future offspring, the Planetary Chain to
come when we in our own Chain shall have run our cyclical
evolutionary course and sunk into our long and well-earned
Pralaya, or rest. In other words, after we have rejoined those
super-spiritual spheres from within which we came in the very
beginning of things ; to remain there in peace and in bliss ineffable,
until the seeds latent in us, the fruitage of our present and future
acts and thoughts, shall spring into activity in due time. For all
things move in regular courses and according to order, which shall
bring us down, in far-distant aeons, as said before, into the
fabrication of the Planetary Chain to be.
CHAPTER XL
DEFINITIONS OF DEITY : ATHEISM : PANTHEISM. IS THERE A
SUPREME PERSONAL GOD ? KOSMIC ARCHITECTS AND
BUILDERS.* REALLY TO KNOW, ONE MUST BECOME.
" Thus there is but one Absolute IJpddhi (basis) in the spiritual sense, from, on,
and in which, are built for Manvantaric purposes the countless basic centers on
which proceed the Universal, cyclic, and individual Evolutions during the active
period.**
“ The informing Intelligences, which animate these various centers of Being,
are referred to indiscriminately by men beyond the Great Range as the M anus,
the Rishis, the Pitris, the Prajdpatis, and so on ; and as Dhydni-Buddhas, the
Chohans, Melhas (fire-gods), Bodhisattvas, and others, on this side. The truly
ignorant call them gods ; the learned profane, the one God ; and the wise, the
Initiates, honor in them only the Manvantaric manifestations of Th a t which
neither our Creators (the Dhy&n-Chohans) nor their creatures can ever discuss or
know anything about. The A bsolute is not to be defined, and no mortal or
immortal has ever seen or comprehended it during the periods of Existence. The
mutable cannot know the Immutable, nor can that which lives perceive Absolute Life.**
Therefore, man cannot know higher beings than his own “ progenitors."
" Nor shall he worship them,* but he ought to learn how he came into the world.
There is frequent confusion in the attributes and genealogies of the gods in
their theogonies, as given to the world by the half-initiated writers, Brahmanical
and Biblical, the Alpha and the Omega of the records of that symbolical science.
Yet there could be no such confusion made by the earliest nations, the descendants
and pupils of the divine instructors : for both the attributes and the genealogies
were inseparably linked with cosmogonical symbols, the " gods ” being the life
and animating ” soul-principle ” of the various regions of the Universe. Nowhere
and by no people was speculation allowed to range beyond those manifested gods.
The boundless and infinite Unity remained with every nation a virgin forbidden
soil, untrodden by man's thought, untouched by fruitless speculation. The
only reference made to it was the brief conception of its diastolic and systolic
property, of its periodical expansion or dilatation, and contraction. In the Uni­
verse with all its incalculable myriads of systems and worlds disappearing and
reappearing in eternity, the anthropomorphised powers, or gods, their Souls,
had to disappear from view with their bodies : " The breath returning to the
eternal bosom which exhales and inhales them,” says our Catechism.
. . . In every Cosmogony, behind and higher than the creative deity, there is a
superior deity, a planner, an Architect, of whom the Creator is but the executive
agent. And still higher, over and around, within and without, there is the Un­
knowable and the unknown, the Source and Cause of all these Emanations. . . .
The Secret Doctrine (H. P. B l a v a t s k y ), II, pp. 34, 42, 43.
W
E approach this evening one aspect of Occultism
which has always been held as very sacred and very
carefully guarded, and that is the study of other
worlds than ours, not as those worlds have been set
forth in the exoteric religions, but in accordance with the secret
Wisdom which has been handed down to us from immemorial
time. We mean the teaching concerning the superior globes of our
own Planetary Chain; and on a misunderstanding of the doctrines
435
436 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
concerning the teaching regarding the Planetary Chain have been
based the exoteric views of the heavens and the hells of the
various exoteric faiths.
One might ask oneself what the proper answer is to give to
those who might ask any one of us, " Is a Theosophist an Atheist ?
Does he believe in God ? If not, why not ? ” Now these questions
are directly connected with the proper understanding of the
doctrines about the Planetary Chain. Let us then first devote a
few moments to answering these questions for ourselves. Are we
Atheists ? Now, how can we answer that question before we know
what we mean by the term ? If we take a modern dictionary,
for instance the Century Dictionary, and look up the definition
which it gives of the term “ Atheism ” , we find three general ones,
as follows : The first is : “ The doctrine that there is no God.”
And then follows a quotation from Sir J. R. Seeley, from his
book, Natural Religion, page 26, as follows: “ Atheism is a
disbelief in the existence of God— that is, disbelief in any
regularity in the universe to which man must conform himself
under penalties.” Notice the peculiar limitation of thought
involved in this. If there is no regularity in the universe there­
fore there is no personal supreme God, and therefore if you don’t
believe in such a God, the universe is irregular and anarchical,
and you are an Atheist!
The second definition is as follows: “ The denial of theism,
that is, of the doctrine that the great first cause is a supreme
intelligent, righteous person.” The third definition is “ Godless­
ness ” , with the implied meaning that if you don’t accept the God
of the one who gives the definition, you are an Atheist, and you
live a “ godless ” , that is, an evil life. Such, then, are the
definitions given in a standard work.
Now any tyro-student of history knows that this question or
idea of belief in a god or in no god has varied, or rather has
received different treatment, in different ages. You will remember
doubtless that when the Christian religion first began to run a
more or less successful course in Greece and in the Roman Empire,
educated Greeks and Romans called the new Christian sect an
atheistic sect. They were called atheists, " atheoi ” , merely
meaning one, or rather those, who did not accept the established
gods of the state, that is, the gods of the state-religion ; and the
term bore with it no particular or necessary implication of evil
doing whatsoever. It was very much as if an European or
American were to say today : “ Such and such a man is a Free­
thinker, or a Confucianist, or a Buddhist, or a scientist,” etc.
Now when the Christians grew more powerful and had in later
ages the upper hand of the so-called Pagans, they in their turn
retaliated by calling the Pagans atheists, because the latter did
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 437
not accept the Jewish-Greek, new-fangled Christian God. In
other words, the term actually means : " I f you accept my God
you are not an atheist; and if you do not accept my God you are
an atheist."
That is just about what atheism has always meant, if we consult
the pages of history. But if we think of atheism as containing
in itself a necessary implication of evil doing, we lower ourselves
to the mental viewpoint of certain very narrow-minded Christians
to whom all who do not accept their particular variety of religion,
their particular understanding or misunderstanding of Deity, are
atheists. We are reminded of course of that Scottish lady of the
legend, of whom we have all heard, who with her husband
composed a kirk; she and her Jamie alone composed the kirk.
But she was " nae sae certain aboot Jamie ". Therefore she alone
composed the kirk, and her husband Jamie, poor man, came very
near to being (in her eyes) an atheist.
Now that is the spirit that has governed Christian thought
practically ever since the death of its founder. So, therefore,
when we ask if a man is an atheist, we must be careful first to
ascertain what we mean by the term. I have been called an
atheist because I do not accept the old orthodox definition of the
personal Christian God. I reject the term, if it mean living an
immoral life. I reject it with all the indignation of which I am
sensible, if the word be so used, for it is an imputation which is
grossly unjust. And doubtless any one of you feels exactly as I do.
Was it not the author of the Plough and the Cross, a very clever
Irish writer, who said somewhere that our " forefathers were afraid
of ghosts ; but we are afraid of names," i.e., of labels and
tickets ?
Now notice the second definition given above, that a man is an
atheist if he does not believe in the existence of a supreme,
personal, first cause, who is an " intelligent, righteous person ".
I reject such a deity; therefore, according to the dictionary, I
am an atheist. But if anyone were to ask me, and say, " Are you
an atheist ? " I would say, No. And if he were to say, Why ?
I would say, Because to me the Boundless All is totally instinct
with consciousness and life, an infinitely immense and swarming
multitude, endless and beginningless, of beings who form not
merely the heart of the pulsating life of all that is, but provide
the very consciousnesses which govern and control the innumer­
able universes of and in the Boundless All.
Why, if you turn even to the canonical scripture of the Christian
religion and ask what Paul meant when he spoke of Deity, we find
there, from him, two definitions worthy of the initiant that the
man was, when he said, first: "In It we live, and move, and
have our being." This is pure pantheism— not as misunderstood
438 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
in the grotesque sense which the Christians have misgiven to it,
i.e., that everystock and every stone is God, thus showing their
profound ignorance of the high and noble philosophical meaning
behind the term Pantheism ; but in the sense that all is Life, and
that it is impossible to conceive of, nay, even to touch the smallest
point of Space or Being, which lacks that Limitless Life. For
back of A lies B, which is still greater than A ; back of B lies C,
still greater than B ; back of C lies D, yet more grandiose ; and so
on infinitely, with never an end. What blasphemous ideas have
come down through the ages regarding this question of Deity I
Here in our Occidental Christianism we have a god, a bundle of
contradictions, a misunderstood rendering of Neo-Pythagorean
and Neo-Platonic, and of some Judaic thoughts, the curious and
contradictory compound called the Christian Deity— I mean the
theological definition thereof.
Then another saying of Paul from his Epistle to the Romans,
in chapter n , verse 36 : “ For out of It, and through It, and
back to It are all things.” Pantheism this, pure and simple, even
as we understand it.
Or, if we turn to the English rendering of John’s Gospel,
chapter 4, verse 24, we find an affirmation of the opposite thought,
which particular translation sprang from the orthodox rendering
of the text by the later Christians, where this Greek verse is
mistranslated as saying " God is a spirit ” . The Greek original
could equally well and even better be translated: " God is
Spirit ” . So be it. They may worship “ a spirit ” if they like, a
spirit who is a “ righteous person ” ; but those whose hearts have
expanded under the beneficent influence of the Wisdom-Religion,
and whose minds have opened to somewhat of the understanding
which every faithful student of that Wisdom should possess, can
only reject such a definition of the Deity that he cannot accept,
with the indignation which the definition deserves.
No Theosophist, H. P. Blavatsky has somewhere said, has ever
denied Deity, i.e., limitless Life in the Boundless A ll; but this
Deity is nothing like, nor in any sense can it be compared with,
a finite creator, which such a " person ” is supposed to be, however
" supreme ” and however “ righteous ” and however great that
supposed " person ” or that “ spirit ” may be imagined to be.
Now, if someone were to ask you, " Is there a supreme personal
God ruling the Planetary Chain and is it your God ? ” the answer
is No. There is a host, a multitude, a hierarchy, of intelligent
and of thinking and of highly spiritualized beings, from which the
Planetary Chain sprang forth, but it is not our god, nor do we
worship any such. Those beings are our progenitors, our Elder
Brothers in a very exalted sense, for they were men in former
manvantaras long since past; but our “ god ” , never, not even
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 439
when considered as a unity and called the Logos. Our Deity,
if it is anything, is that indescribable, Boundless Life, in its
highest aspects, back of everything, forming a background of all
manifested being on whatever plane, and in which all is, and from
which all is, and to which all is ; indescribable, unthinkable, and
therefore ineffable.
You remember that when Gautama the Buddha was asked
What is God ? and Is there God ? that greatest and noblest of
Masters was silent. And when asked a second and a third time
What is God ? he again was silent. Three times was he asked the
question, and three times he preserved his silence.
In our recent studies we have attempted to show that the
entire system of beings, the structure or frame-work of the
universe on the background of the Boundless, sprang forth from
the action and the intermingling of the Gods, the Monads, the
Souls, and the Atom s; and that these produced the various
Planatary Chains of our Solar System, that is to say, of the
Kosmic Atom, or, as the Brahmanical thinkers named it, the Egg
of Brahma. From these Gods, Monads, Souls, and Atoms, the
manifested being of the Solar System came forth.
Let us then turn next to our own Planetary Chain. You will
remember that it is stated to be composed of seven globes, of
which our present earth is the fourth and on the lowest Plane of
the seven; and that this Planetary Chain is working in four of
the Planes or Worlds of the Solar System, in the four lowest
Worlds thereof, as a matter of fact, our earth occupying the lowest
Element or World of the seven which compose the Solar System.
These seven Elements are otherwise the Kosmical Lokas and Talas,
or Kosmical Worlds, Principles and Elements working together ;
they are the Worlds within the outer seeming, more ethereal than
our world, of which ours is a copy, not necessarily a copy in every
detail, but a copy on general lines, even as the physical body of
man is a copy on general lines of the soul of him ; and as his soul is
a copy on general lines of the spirit of him ; and as the spirit of
him is a copy on general lines of his divine root, a god-being or
godhead from which he sprang.
You will also remember that we have pointed out that there are
two general lines or hierarchies of spiritual beings who brought
forth our Kosmos, of which our Planetary Chain is one part; and
these two are respectively the Architects and the Builders. The
Architects form the higher or more spiritual side, and actually
form the line of the Luminous A rc; and the Builders or Con­
structors form, on the other hand, the Shadowy Arc.
In the Buddhist system of Tibet, the general name of Dhyan-
Chohans, or Lords of Meditation, is given to both these lines of
beings; but more particularly the Architects are called the
440 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Dhy&ni-Buddhas, the Buddhas of Contemplation. The Greeks
called the World-Builders, the Masons of the world, by the general
term of Kosmokratores, a compound Greek word meaning World-
Builders. They are those who receive the creative or constructive
impress from the Beings of the Luminous Arc, or the Dhyani-
Buddhas, and carry it out.
Now in each of these two lines there are seven grades or rather
classes: there are seven classes of the Dhyani-Buddhas, and seven
classes of the Dhyani-Chohans ; and so far as our own Planetary
Chain is concerned, these seven classes are reflected, repeated,
therein. “ As it is above, so it is below.”
Furthermore, each one of the seven globes composing our
Planetary Chain is under the particular oversight— I think it
would be wrong to use the word direction or “ guidance ” , but
rather the over-seeing— under the particular over-seeing or care—
care is perhaps the best word to describe this extremely meta­
physical concept— under the care of one class of these Dhyani-
Buddhas and one class of the Builders. That is to say, Globe A,
for instance, the first, on the descending arc of our Planetary
Chain, is under the care or watchful inspiration or oversight, of
one class of these seven of both lines. Globe B is under the care
of the second class of each line. Globe C under the same care or
inspiration of the third class of each ; and our own Globe D or
fourth has likewise its own Dhyani-Buddhas and Builders of the
fourth class ; and the three globes of the ascending arc, similarly.
Do not confuse these two lines, because the distinction is very
important if we are to obtain any adequate understanding at all
of this branch of the Ancient Wisdom. The Architects then, of the
Luminous Arc, provide the model, lay down the plans. They are
the Architects, the overseers, and their work is carried out by these
inferior grades or classes of spiritual beings called the Builders.
Now with regard to this very question of God, considered
briefly above, you will remember that the Gnostics, during the
time of the beginning of the Christian era, claimed, and we claim
with them, that the Christian God, Jehovah, whom the Christians
call the ” Creator ” , could not for that very reason be a very high
god. The very attributes and functions of creation or formation
that were given to him, show, said these Gnostics, that he was
but an inferior deity, a Builder, receiving his ” orders ” , so to say,
from the Divine Architects and supernal Planners and Thinkers
of the Kosmos, he himself thus being but a Builder ; as they so
well put it, the manifold imperfections and incompletenesses so
plainly apparent even to us humans, in the kosmical system,
proclaim that it could not be the work of an all-perfect and
kosmically omnipotent Deity ; from Utter Perfection could spring
forth only a Perfect and Complete Work. The early Christians
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 441
were unable to understand the deep philosophy behind this
unanswerable axiom, and waxed very wroth and indignant indeed
against what they called the “ blasphemous opinions ” of the
Gnostics. In common with all thoughtful minds, you will see the
deep philosophical and religious implications that lie behind this
argument or axiom, but upon them we cannot longer pause this
evening. Remember this, though, that in all the ancient faiths,
you will find two'general classes of spiritual beings at work in the
Kosmos, and they are always divided, as we have already said
this evening, into the Thinkers or Planners or Architects, the
Inspirers ; and into the Builders. There is, finally, vastly more in
this thought than we have time to go into this evening.
Now the Silent Watcher of whom we have spoken at other
meetings, is the highest of the Dhyani-Chohans of our Globe ; but
there is likewise a Silent Watcher for each of the other six globes,
and for the Planetary Chain as a whole. There is likewise a Silent
Watcher for the entire Kosmical— for the entire Solar— System.
So when we say " Silent Watcher ” , without further defining, it is
like saying “ spiritual being ” or “ hierarchical head ” . It is a
generic term. As remarked at those former meetings, where our
Teacher instructed us to develop this thought somewhat, we
pointed out that one such Silent Watcher is on our earth today,
the supreme head of our Holy Order, the highest link with the
spiritual beings of the hierarchy higher than ours upward along
the Luminous Arc. He is, so to say, our supreme Master, our
supreme Chief.
You have all studied, of course, in the doctrine concerning our
own Planetary Chain, what are commonly called the seven
“ Rounds ” , meaning that the life-cycle or Life-Wave begins its
evolutionary course on Globe A, the first of the globes, then,
completing its cycles there, runs down to Globe B, and then to
Globe C, and then to Globe D our earth; and then to Globe E, on
the ascending arc, then to Globe F, and then to Globe G. This is
one Planetary Round. Then ensues a Planetary Nirv&na until
the second Round begins in the same way, but in a more
" advanced ” degree of evolution than was the first Round.
Please note that one such Round is a Planetary Round. A globe-
Round is one of the passages, one of the seven passages, of that
Life-Wave during its Planetary Round, on any one and therefore
on and through each of the globes: when the Life-Wave has
passed through Globe D, for instance, and ends its cycles on
Globe D, that is the globe-Round of Globe D for that particular
Planetary Round ; and so with all the globes respectively. There
are seven globe-Rounds therefore (one globe-Round for each of the
seven globes) in each Planetary Round. Furthermore, when seven
Planetary Rounds have been accomplished, which is as much as
442 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
saying 49g/o2
>e-Rounds (or globe-Manvantaras), then ensues a still
higher Nirvana than that between Globes G and A after each
Planetary Round, which is called a pralaya of that Planetary
Chain, which pralaya lasts until the cycle again returns for the
new Planetary Chain to form, containing the same series of living
beings as on the preceding Chain and which are now destined
to enter upon that new Planetary Chain, but on a higher series of
planes than in the preceding one.
Next, when seven such Planetary Chains with their various
Kalpas or Manvantaras have passed away, this sevenfold Grand
Cycle is one Solar Manvantara, and then the entire Solar System
sinks into the Solar or Kosmic Pralaya. Our own sun is then
extinguished, suddenly, like a flash of light, or like a shadow
passing over a wall. After just a “ flickering ” , finally the light
goes out, and the great mass of entities pass into spiritual realms
far higher than any of those attained during the highest point of
attainment in the period while the Solar Manvantara lasted,
because they are then entering upon their Solar Nirv&na.
Let us draw again the same diagram that we copied from
H. P. Blavatsky at a former meeting, from page 200 of Volume I,
Intellectual or
Creative World
© /Astral or
Formative World
Physical World
D iagram I.
of The Secret Doctrine. The seven parallel lines represent, if
you please, the seven planes or worlds of the solar system.
Above or on the lowest line of these seven let us place a circle to
represent Globe D, our earth. On the next plane above we also
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 443
place two more circles to represent the two globes immediately
above our own, called respectively C on the left and E on the right.
On the plane above that we place two more globes, and call these
respectively B on the left and F on the right. And on the plane
above that, the fourth Kosmic plane counting upwards, we draw
two more circles to represent the two highest globes of our chain,
respectively A on the left and G on the right.
Now please remember that these kosmic “ planes ” are merely
so-called for purposes of convenience. They are actually the
seven kosmical Lokas and Talas of the Kosmic System, that is
to say, of the Solar System. But each one of these is a true
World, they are worlds as truly as our own is, which we perceive
when we look up and see the stars above us, and look to the earth
and see the earth beneath our feet, the trees growing therefrom,
the human and other animate beings walking with us, etc. etc.
Each one of these kosmic “ Planes ” is a World, but each is again
subdivided into septenary divisions, into seven divisions, all of
them together making forty-nine subdivisions of the seven
main divisions (or Worlds) of the Solar System.
Let us illustrate this by another diagram. We draw again seven
parallel lines. And let these represent, if you please, the lowest
/ v J Globe O in Round1
2 _ _ Q . . . . - JL
3 , _ . _ o . . . . . . _ ^ m
4 O , n r
5
6
7
D iagram II.
solar World, or Plane, of the seven, the lowest Kosmic World,
our World, the World we are in now. It, like all the others,
is septempartite or divided into seven parts or divisions, repre-
444 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
senting matter or spirit from the grossest to the highest degree
of each in our World, from the ethereal (highest) to the most
material (lowest); and on one of these planes our globe Terra is
at present. I hope that this is clear.
Now what is the manner in which the Life-Wave in any Round
works ? For the moment, if you please, we shall omit considering
the previous three globes, A, B, and C, on the descending turn,
and consider only our own Globe D, or Earth. These seven lines in
the diagram are intended to represent respectively the seven grades
or materializations of matter in the lowest of the seven Kosmic
Planes, growing.more material from the top downwards. Now
then, our Globe D in Round the First is in the highest or topmost
of these seven sub-planes of our own lower Kosmic Plane, and
our own Kosmic Plane, please remember, is the lowest of the
seven of all the Kosmic Planes. It is the seventh and lowest.
The Life-Wave during Round I passes through our earth, after
evolving it forth, a process which we are to study in detail later ;
it is a process of evolutionary development which occupies many
millions of years; and after finishing its globe-Round I, leaves
our Globe D and passes to the next higher Globe E. All right. As
this Life-Wave is descending into matter for the first three
Rounds, our globe during Round first will be on the highest sub­
plane of the lowest Kosmic Plane or World. The second or next
Round will find our globe materialized and on sub-plane the
second, counting downwards; in Round the third, still more
materialized and on the third sub-plane downwards; in Round
IV, that is, where we are now, our globe has reached its grossest
state of matter; the downward cycling ceases, and the ascent
begins.
What about sub-planes 5, 6, and 7 ? Those planes have to do
with questions which our Teacher has instructed me not to touch
upon at present and here ; but we may say that they are related
to the destiny of beings who have followed the left-hand path,
and who ultimately reach the utmost point of physical materiali­
zation in sub-plane the seventh, or the grossest possible in our
Solar System, and the last.
We see, thus, that the Life-Wave in making its First Round,
the Round No. I, as is illustrated in diagram 1, passes through
(on its descending arc through the lowest four Kosmic Worlds or
Planes) the highest sub-plane or sub-world of each one of these
lowest four Kosmic Worlds, forming in each such Kosmic World,
a globe, one of the then-in-the-making seven globes of the Chain. Is
this clear ? In Round No. I the Life-Wave forms Globe A on sub­
plane the highest of the fourth Kosmic World (or Plane). See
the diagram. In Round No. I the Life-Wave forms Globe B on
sub-plane the highest of the fifth Kosmic World (or Plane). In
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 445
Round No. I the Life-Wave forms Globe C on sub-plane the highest
of the sixth Kosmic World (or Plane); and so with the lowest
Globe D, our earth; and on the Ascending scale likewise we see
Globes E, F, and G, similarly formed, each on the highest sub­
plane of the respective Kosmic Worlds (or Planes). Round No. II
begins (after the long, long Planetary Nirvana) on Globe A on
the second sub-plane of the fourth Kosmic World or Plane;
then the life-waVe passes to Globe B on the second sub-plane of the
fifth Kosmic World or Plane; then to Globe C on the second
sub-plane of the sixth Kosmic World or Plane ; then to Globe D
(our earth) on the second sub-plane of the seventh or lowest
Kosmic World or Plane. Similarly, during this second Planetary
Round, to all the globes on all the second sub-planes of the
ascending arc. Each such passage of the Life-Wave in and through
each globe of the seven globes, forms a globe-Round, as said
above.
So with Round III, and again with Round IV, where we are
now on Globe D, on the fourth sub-plane of the seventh or lowest
Kosmic Plane or World. That is to say that the Life-Wave
during each Planetary Round passes through the seven globes
of the Chain, and from Kosmic Plane to Kosmic Plane; but
during each one Round passes through only one sub-plane of
each Kosmic World or Plane : the result of this being that during
the seven Rounds, it passes through 49 sub-planes, and the
beings composing the Life-Wave thereby have the chance of
working out the destiny for which they came into active mani­
festation and evolution ; for the whole purpose of the evolutionary
processes of the Kosmos is for the gaining of Self-consciousness
through individualizing experiences—i.e., experiences which
individualize (evolve, bring out) the Monads. And in order to
attain that end, each Monad must not merely undergo and
mentally experience the various phases and natures of the uni­
versal Life, but be them. As pointed out before in our studies,
the initiations of old times, the real initiations, the initiations
which brought to man’s consciousness the knowledge of the
spiritual truths of Being, were based on this fact: that no man
could really know anything merely by being taught about it, but
he must be it, he must become it. From the fourth initiation
onwards (as pointed out before), in the old Mystery-Schools, the
system of teaching only during the first three initiations was
changed into both teaching and personal experience beginning
with the fourth initiation, these personal experiences growing
grander and greater with each higher step that the candidate or
initiant took ; until finally, if he was successful in all the seven
degrees, he attained the divine status from which he started
forth in the beginning of the Kosmic or Solar Manvantara, plus
446 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
divine self-consciousness, self-awakening, and became thereby a
Buddha, an Awakened One ; or a Christos, to adopt the old
Greek mystery-term.
During our next few studies we shall continue to investigate
the subject of the Planetary Chain.
CHAPTER XLI
THE DOCTRINE OF THE SPHERES. THE UNIVERSAL SOLAR SYSTEM
AND OUR SOLAR SYSTEM. THE SEVEN SACRED PLANETS 1
WHY " SA'CRED ” ?
But Time was generated together with the universe, that being produced
together they might together be dissolved, if any dissolution should ever happen
to these. And time was generated according to the exemplar of an eternal
nature, that this world might be most similar possible to such a nature. For its
exemplar is permanent being, through the whole of eternity; but the universe
alone was generated, is, and will be, through the whole of time. After this manner,
therefore, and from such a cogitation of divinity about the generation of time,
that he might give birth to its flowing subsistence, he generated the sun and moon,
and the five other stars, which are denominated planets, for the purpose of
distinguishing and guarding the numbers of time. But the divinity, as soon as
he had produced the bodies of these stars, placed them, being seven in number,
in the seven circulations formed by the revolution of the nature distinguished
by difference. . . . But with respect to the other stars, if anyone should think
proper to investigate their circulations, and through what causes they are
established, the labour would be greater than that of the discourse itself, for the
sake of which they were introduced.
The Timceus of Plato, pp. 467-468 (Taylor).
The lower world is subject to the sway of the upper world.
In the beginning of its revolution the sovereignty over this lower world is
committed to one of the slow-moving stars.
Which governeth it alone for the space of a thousand years.
And for other thousands of years each of the heavy-moving stars, and swift-
moving stars becometh its partner, each for one thousand years.
Last of all the moon becometh its associate.
After that, the first associate will get the sovereignty.
The second king goeth through the same round as the first king; and the
others are in like manner his associates.
Last of all the first king is for a thousand years the partner of the second king.
Then the period of the reign of the second king is also past.
And understand that the same is the course as to all the others.
When the Moon hath been king, and all have been associates along with it,
and its reign too is over, one Grand Period is accomplished.
After which the Sovereignty again returneth to the first king, and in this
way there is an eternal succession.
And in the beginning of the Grand Period, a new order of things commenceth
in the lower world.
And, not indeed the very forms, and knowledge, and events of the Grand
Period that hath elapsed, but others precisely similar to them will again be
produced.
And every Grand Period that cometh resembleth from beginning to end the
Grand Period that is past.
The D esdtir: “ The Book of the Prophet, the Great Abad,” vv. 102-116.
(Mulla Firuz Bin Kaus, trans.)
V
AST are the reaches of both the space and the time,
and profound are the mysteries likewise, connected
with, and involved in the subjects with which our
present cycle of study is opened; for these subjects
deal in general with what we may call collectively the Doctrine
447
448 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
of the Spheres ; that is to say, that particular and fundamental
branch of the archaic philosophy and religion of the Ancient
Wisdom which was most especially developed in the countries
surrounding the Mediterranean or Inland Sea— a favored study
there, even as in the farther Orient, among the archaic sages of
Hindusthan, the doctrines regarding the workings of the various
monadic states of consciousness were more largely developed and
prized.
You will remember that in the last one of our studies, we
sketched, though briefly, the outline of the Theosophical doctrine
dealing with the Planetary Chain of our Earth, at which subject
we had arrived, but which we had no time to develop. Now this
subject of Planetary Chains is a special case, as mathematicians
would say, of the general Doctrine of the Spheres ; this subject
has always been one of the most carefully guarded, considered as
one of the most sacred and occult, because it leads us, in its
ultimate reaches, directly to the Heart of Being. In order to
reach that Heart of Being, we have to pass through many secret
chambers of Mother Nature, chambers which have been held
secret from all but members of our own Order, from immemorial
time ; and the Arcana of which have been guarded as one of the
most sacred possessions of the Chiefs, the Guardians, of this our
holy Order.
Our Teacher, in coming with me to the Temple this evening,
asked me to refer briefly, if only in a mere sketch, to our former
studies, so that before taking up the study of the evening, which
will lead us on in the same and closely related themes for several
future meetings, we may have some recollection of the general
theorems which we have been considering for the past few years.
You will remember that these our studies were originally opened
by taking into consideration the general outline of Cosmogony and
Theogony as found in the archaic Cosmology and Theology of the
Ancient Wisdom. This was sketched in all its general aspects, as
an outline only, details being left for filling in at future dates.
We passed in review— only in sketch, please bear in mind— how
worlds are born, how, like children, they spring from the womb
of Nature; how, from a germ, they grow into youth, reach
maturity, then decline, and finally decay, followed by ultimate
death ; again to resurrect in cyclic rebirth from that same womb
of Mother Nature.
It was shown also, although only in sketch, merely in order to
give the general outline of the case, that these doctrines of the
Ancient Wisdom, mystic, marvelous, wonderful, leave no query
unanswered, leave nothing to be built upon mere faith— blind
faith that is ; but that each theorem of its philosophy must be,
and is, proved, as the study of it progresses.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 449
Remember what “ proof ” is. Proof consists in bringing
conviction to the mind; conviction of its reality, based upon
evidence, is the proof of a fact or theorem. Remember that the
various circumstantial things which we may bring in production
of proof, are merely the evidential part, the evidences of reality.
Then, as we passed in review, in sketch, in outline only, these
general theorems, we finally arrived at the doctrine concerning
the Planetary Chains, which, as said, is a “ special case ” , as the
mathematicians put it, of the general theorem of the wonderful
Doctrine of the Spheres. Henceforth our studies go more into
detail; and our Teacher in the beginning of our studies, in­
structed us so to conduct our lectures, our studies together,
that the written report of these may go out and help those who
are seeking deeper knowledge of the Ancient Mysteries and of the
Ancient Wisdom than they can get from the books of the world ;
all the while closely veiling from outsiders who have no right to
them, the esoteric and occult keys. You will understand most of
them, probably, by a mere allusion. One of the reasons for this
policy, is that some students have accepted certain statements
of Mr. Sinnett on this very question of the Planetary Chain,
to the effect that two of the physical planets of our Solar System,
Mars and Mercury, were two of the members of our Earth's
Planetary Chain, although H. P. Blavatsky in this very volume
of The Secret Doctrine published several years before her death,
declared positively that this notion is wrong ; for indeed, it is
not true.
As our studies proceed, you will see for yourselves that it cannot
be true ; that it is in itself a preposterous idea ; an error based
on a pitiable confusion of mind and showing utter lack of know­
ledge of Occultism. Let me ask parenthetically, Who was the
originator of this idea ? You will remember that the earliest
teachings were given through H. P. Blavatsky; through
Damodar (who later went to Tibet to join the Teachers) ; and
through one or two others, to two Englishmen in India, two
Anglo-Indians, Mr. A. 0 . Hume and Mr. A. P. Sinnett, of both of
whom we shall have more to say at a future date ; and that the
philosophical, religious, and scientific teachings that Mr. Sinnett
received in answer to queries sent by him to the Masters through
H. P. Blavatsky and Damodar, were later incorporated by him
in two of his works, The Occult World, and Esoteric Buddhism, as
he called them— both good books for their time, as far as they
went, but criticized also by H. P. Blavatsky in The Secret Doctrine
for their materialistic bias of presentation, and for their over­
emphasis on certain aspects of the teachings, to the neglect of the
higher, the more spiritual, the more intellectual, portions, in
the attempt by Mr. Sinnett to " reconcile ” the teachings of the
450 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Ancient Wisdom with what he obviously thought was the last
word of human knowledge, the scientific theories and fads of his
day. Those scientific theories and teachings are already out of
date now, lost to mind and mostly forgotten. Science has
" moved ” ; but the teachings of the Ancient Wisdom have
remained !
Now we open our study this evening, after these preliminary
observations, by reading from The Secret Doctrine, Volume II,
first, on page 699, " On Chains of Planets and Their Plurality/'
the following:
Did the Ancients know of worlds besides their own ? What are the
data of the Occultists in affirming that every globe is a septenary chain
of worlds— of which only one member is visible— and that these are,
were, or will be, “ m an-bearing/' just as every visible star or planet is ?
What do they mean by “ a moral and physical influence ” of the sidereal
worlds on our globes ?
Such are the questions often put to us, and they have to be considered
from every aspect. T o the first of the two queries the answer is : W e
believe it because the first law in nature is uniformity in diversity,
and the second— analogy. " As above, so b elow /'
And then on page 703 :
When, therefore, we find in the Bibles of Humanity “ other worlds "
spoken of, we may safely conclude that they not only refer to other
states of our planetary chain and Earth, but also to other inhabited
globes— stars and planets ; withal that the latter were never specu­
lated upon. The whole of antiquity believed in the Universality of
life.
In entering upon the present phase of our study, we are obliged
to go into detail. The general aspect, as said before, of our work
together, has been passed. But this entering upon a more detailed
study is attended naturally with increased difficulties, not only
because of the many subjects that we are more or less perforce
obliged to meet in following the main theme of our discourse,
but also from the fact that not one iota of teaching can be omitted
at any one point; it must at least be alluded to if the teaching
is to remain complete and whole and not a divided thing. Hence
we shall go slowly. It were indeed easy to hurry over this subject,
easy to get a general outline ; but in such case, we could go but
little farther than the surface-meaning in The Secret Doctrine;
and our Teacher's instructions to us are : Simplify by illustration,
supporting it by confirmation and proof.
Hence, let us first consider what we mean by the Doctrine of
the Spheres, one of the most archaic of the Ancient Mysteries.
We mean four things, speaking generally. First, we shall pass
these four in review, briefly touch upon two, merely alluding to
one, and studying in detail the fourth, which is the subject of our
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 451
present thought, the Planetary Chain of this Earth. These four
general aspects of this Doctrine of the Spheres, are as follows 1
First the Universal Solar System. We mean by this, our Sun and
all the planetary bodies in the solar system, visible or invisible,
seen or unseen, known or unknown, owning the Sun as their
primary. Modem science today recognises seven, eight, or perhaps
nine planets, and a host of planetoids, and no more, as belonging to
the solar system. Modern astronomy knows nothing of the great
body of the Universal Solar System except its physical shell,
the outer physical clothing of it, the seven, eight, or nine planets
which we can see with the physical eye in the heavens, and which
are counted as follows : Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn,
Uranus, Neptune. But the Ancient Wisdom, the Esoteric
Teaching, tells us that there are actually scores of planets in the
Universal Solar System of ours, and that these scores— excepting
those counted by astronomy— are all invisible to us, to our eyes
of fourth-plane matter— or seventh-plane matter, according to
the way by which we may count. All of you who have
been members of this School for years past, will know what is
meant by that.
F irst: Neptune is not a member of our Universal Solar System,
according to the Ancient Wisdom. We will deal with this matter
later. Next, Uranus is not a member of our Solar System, but is
a member of the Universal Solar System. We shall fully explain
what we mean by our Solar System. Can you blame Mr. Sinnett
for not understanding, and therefore thinking that he knew more
than the Master did and than H. P. Blavatsky did, and that the
archaic Teachings contained contradictions, when the man could
not get it through his head that the same words may be used with
different meanings; and that one of the favorite, sanctified,
methods of concealing truth from those not qualified to get it, is
to say two, three, four, five, six, seven different things with the
same words ?
First, then, we have the Universal Solar System, comprising
the septenary Sun and all the planets of the Solar System, visible
or invisible, and on seven planes. Then, we have our Solar System,
which is the second of these four aspects of the Doctrine of the
Spheres before mentioned, and is the group usually called the
“ seven sacred planets ” of the ancients, as these seven are related
to our Planetary Chain. The third is something to which we
shall merely allude as occasion arises, and not go much farther.
Our Teacher has told us in this Group of students to say nothing
much of this third aspect. It is alluded to by H. P. Blavatsky in
the first volume (pp. 163-164) of The Secret Doctrine in her
answer to part of Mr. Sinnett's misunderstanding regarding the
Earth’s Planetary Chain. You will remember where she speaks
452 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
(I quote in substance) of the relation of Mars and Mercury and
the " four secret planets ” to our earth ; and she explains that
“ they all bear a relation thereto which no initiate will speak
of, much less explain The fourth aspect is our Earth’s Planetary
Chain per se.
Now Mr. Sinnett asked his question of the Teacher as follows :
" What other planets of those known to ordinary science, besides
Mercury, belong to our system of worlds ? ” Please mark those
four last words. And he continues : " Are the more spiritual
planets— (A, B and Y, Z)— visible bodies in the sky or are all
those known to astronomy of the more material sort ? ” And the
answer came as follows : “ Mars and four other planets of which
astronomy knows yet nothing. Neither A, B nor Y, Z are
known ; nor can they be seen through physical means however
perfected." And yet despite that, Mr. Sinnett taught and claimed
for years that two of our visible planets, Mars and Mercury, form
part of our Earth’s septenary Planetary Chain.
Now you will remember how H. P. Blavatsky answers, or
rather alludes to, Mr. Sinnett’s misunderstanding of the Master’s
teaching. She does this in The Secret Doctrine, Volume I, especi­
ally on pages 162-168 inclusive. Anyone in reading these pages,
unless he has a stultified mind or is entirely ignorant of occult
doctrines, must instantly sense that she is alluding to and hinting
at more than one thing. Read those pages and ponder them
well. At our next meeting we are going into this matter more
deeply.
Now, then, for a brief review, first, of our Universal Solar
System. We mean by that expression all bodies and every body
belonging to the sun, and revolving around it. The sun is their
primary; they circle around the sun as satellites or planets,
visible or invisible ; that is, the expression Universal Solar
System means not only the mere shell of nature— composed of the
seven, eight, or nine planets, that the eye sees— but also the
great inner core of the Solar System, its seven planes of Being.
There are actually scores of planets in our Universal Solar System,
of which we see only seven physical ones, on the same plane as the
Earth ; and if we count our globe as one, there are eight. Neptune,
however, as already said, does not belong to i t ; Uranus does not
belong to our System of Worlds (or our Solar System), but it
does belong to the Universal Solar System, because it is a true
planet intimately connected with our Sun as regards its origin
and destiny.
In order to make this point more clear, let me illustrate what
Neptune is by a very fortunate illustration which we can draw
from modern science. You know that modem chemical physics,
or physical chemistry, teaches that the atom is composed of a
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 453
central nucleus, which has been called the proton, answering in
the atom to what our sun is in the Universal Solar System ; and
that around this central nucleus, revolving with vertiginous
rapidity, are other bodies which they call electrons ; and the
chemists teach us, at least they theorize— and Occultism says
that this theory is true, you can find the proof of it in The Secret
Doctrine— to tlje effect that if one of these atomic planets or
electrons is torn out from that atom, the atom itself is altered
or changed ; not alone does the electric charge of the atom vary,
but the atom itself is de facto altered ; and also if, so to say, the
atom is electron-hungry, if an electron should, so to say, pass
near— I am using very simple language in order to convey the
idea— should pass near that atomic solar system, it may be
captured, in which case the atomic electric hunger is satisfied,
while the atomic valency is altered.
Now, Neptune, although a " planet ” in the sense that it does
revolve around the sun, is not a true member of our Solar System
in any sense. It is a " capture ” , and its capture changed in one
sense the entire nature of our Universal Solar System ; and it
will remain “ captured ” until the karmic time shall come for it
to leave us. It is captured exactly as some of the planets have
captured “ moons ” . Why is it, we may ask, in passing, that
Venus and Mercury have no moons ; and that Mars is said to
have two ; and Saturn nine ; and Jupiter nine ? Whereas, we
know by our teaching that each planet can have but one true
moon, the others being mere captures, satellites. Now, suppose
we were to say, that in the past aeons of time, a comet, nearing
the planetary stage, passed sufficiently close to the gravitational
attraction of our Universal Solar System on its own plane of
being, to be captured, and that due to the interplay of various
forces, it settled into an orbit around our Sun ; and that long
aeons later our astronomers discovered it and named it
“ Neptune ” . Please consider that as a theory. We will leave
it, if you will, for the time, and call it a “ theory ” .
Now, we have said that Uranus is not a member of our Solar
System. We repeat the statement. It is a member, however, of
our Universal Solar System, because it is one of the bodies circling
around the Sun.
You see how it was that Mr. Sinnett, through lack of esoteric
training, through lack of knowledge of the Ancient Wisdom,
through being absolutely psychologized with the splendid achieve­
ments in purely physical discovery of the marvelous scientific
advance of his day— the 0 Last Word of knowledge ” , it actually
was proclaimed in the scientific periodicals of that day— preferred
the scientific theories and fads of the period to the tenets of the
Ancient Wisdom, those tenets which have been proved by
454 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
generation after generation of titanic intellects, of Men, Great
Seers, who had for immemorial ages tested Nature, sending their
Souls into the very womb of matter, into all its seven planes or
spheres, and finding out the truth, the reality, of things.
Now, please note: Mr. Sinnett’s question referred to " our
system of Worlds ” . Do you not see how vague that question
was ? Do you realize that this correspondence had been con­
ducted between those two gentlemen, Mr. Sinnett 'and Mr. Hume,
and the two Teachers called M. and K. H., for several years;
and that these two Teachers had begged Mr. Sinnett to adopt a
definite nomenclature, a definite phraseology in English, so that
there could be no misunderstanding of terms, by the questioners,
when answers were returned ? The spirit of the letters written
by Messrs. Sinnett and Hume was peculiar ; their ideas of occult­
ism were extremely vague and limited. You see how vague is
Mr. Sinnett’s expression “ Our System of Worlds ” . At least four
different aspects of the Doctrine of the Spheres could be meant by
those words. The Teachers had been urging Messrs. Sinnett and
Hume to adopt a definite English terminology and nomenclature,
which, indeed, Mr. Sinnett did adopt, to a certain extent. We
owe many of our common terms and expressions to Mr. Sinnett,
and we are duly grateful to him for the good work that he did in
this respect; but many of these terms are too vague. For instance,
the term “ Root-Race ” is a most unfortunate one. At a later
date we shall have to show how unfortunate it is. We propose to
adopt the Masters’ own term “ Stock-Race ” , using the word
“ stock ” in the sense of body or trunk. We owe to Mr. Sinnett
also the expression “ Round ” , meaning the passage of the Life-
Wave from Globe A, the first of our Earth’s chain, to Globe G,
or the seventh at the end ; and many more of the words, phrases,
and much of the technical vocabulary which is commonly
employed by us today, are due to Mr. Sinnett and Mr. Hume.
We are grateful for all this. They did good work in this respect,
as far as it went. We are the first to acknowledge it.
The question about “ our system of worlds ” asked by Mr.
Sinnett, provided a perfect opening for the Master to tell him the
truth in wholly general terms, and yet to hide from him that
which he should not know. Had Mr. Sinnett been definite enough
in his question; indeed, to put it in another w ay: had he been
wise enough to ask a perfectly definite question, it would have
been much more difficult and embarrassing to the Teacher, in
view of necessary secrecy, to give a definite answer. In such
case, Mr. Sinnett would have got a definite answer ; or he would
have been told that his question was one that should not be
answered, as indeed happened in several cases. But what was
the actual answer that he got ? We have read it, and it contains
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 455
several points of teaching under and in the words. All these four
aspects of the general Doctrine of the Spheres, which we have
been alluding to, are contained in the Master’s answer in the form
of hint and allusion, with especial reference to the most esoteric.
“ Our system of worlds ” was taken at its face-value, just as the
vague and indefinite question— from the viewpoint of Occultism
— ought to have been taken. If the questioner was too mentally
lazy, or too spiritually obtuse, to know the very unusual oppor­
tunity that was his, and to realise the immense responsibility
that was his, he immediately became subject to the archaic law,
that only those who knock at the door in the right manner can
enter therein. All depends upon which door you knock a t ; and
this is an old rule, ancient, ancient, ancient, running back into
immemorial time, to the very days of the later Atlanteans when
the Mysteries were first established in order to segregate the
nobler portion of the Atlantean folk from those who were degener­
ating, and rushing to their doom.
So, then, please understand perfectly clearly that our Universal
Solar System of worlds means our Sun and all the planetary bodies
whatsoever in the solar system, of whatever degree or kind, on
whatever plane, inner or outer, and in whatever orbits they may
be revolving around their primary, the Sun. Remember likewise
in this connexion that our solar system is septenary, that it is
composed of seven planes, or “ worlds ” , and hence that there are
seven suns in it, of which we see but one sun, the lowest in degree.
We might as well say here and now, because it is a part of our
study, that the inhabitants of the three globes preceding ours
and those of the three globes following ours, in our Earth’s Plane­
tary Chain, in each case, see two suns. An illustration of this we
have fortunately in modern astronomy, in what are called the
star-doubles. There are many kinds of doubles. I do not mean
mere optical doubles, but true solar pairs or couples, which is a
fact of being closely connected with the very interesting and also
mysterious doctrine of “ Obscurations ” , into which we shall have
to go in pursuing this our present study of the Earth’s Planetary
Chain. But these stellar couples or doubles show that those suns
which are seen as doubles, form a septenary system which, like
our own sun, have a lower single sun, or lower fourth-plane sun,
just as our own physical sun is. You see here how one key to the
Ancient Wisdom will open the door to Nature’s secret chambers.
Never forget the old Hermetic axiom: Analogy is Nature’s
fundamental law : “ As above, so below ” .
N ext: the " seven sacred planets ” of the ancients— which
ones are they ? They are as follows. I am not naming them in
their proper esoteric order. I am naming them in the old exoteric
Greek way : Moon, Mercury, Venus, Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn.
456 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Note, first, that our Earth is not one of these “ seven sacred or
secret " planets.. Second, that the moon (the first one in order of
enumeration, preceding Mercury) and the Sun, are considered
here in exoteric enumeration as planets. Actually, however, they
stand for two secret planets which are invisible to us : the sun for
an Intra-Mercurial planet which we will, if you like, for purposes
of convenience, call “ Vulcan ” , a planet visible to the men of
the Third Root-Race— or Stock-Race— in this Round, but which
now has disappeared from our vision. It will reappear, however,
as our own race progresses to higher levels of perception. The
Moon, again, as said, stands for another secret planet which is
now dying, having nearly reached the end of its septenary life-
cycle. Before the Earth has reached its seventh Round, our
Moon will have disintegrated into atomic stellar dust; and this
present secret Planet, being a dying planet, this mystery-planet
for which the Moon is the exoteric substitute, will then be the
satellite of the Earth in place of the Moon that was and now is ;
but that planet-satellite will not be a true moon, but a mere
satellite. Please note the difference. For instance, the planet
Mars has two satellites, Phobos and Deimos. Phobos is not a
moon ; but Deimos is a true Moon, but not of Mars. Phobos is
a capture, as we may say, by Mars.
Now, this subject of the “ seven sacred planets ” of the ancients
is intimately bound up with the doctrine of our own Earth's
Planetary Chain, the latter a specific instance of the general
Doctrine of the Spheres ; and we shall have to go into this subject
as a formal study. But let us point out, before closing tonight,
that the Sun and Moon, as forming two of those seven secret
planets in the exoteric enumeration are substitutes for two
secret and invisible planets, briefly spoken of already. Further­
more, with regard to Mars, there is a mystery— i.e., esoteric secret
— connected with this matter which we have not time to go into
tonight, but in it lies the reason why H. P. Blavatsky, in alluding
to these seven secret planets on a certain page of The Secret
Doctrine, speaks only of four— Saturn, Jupiter, Mercury, and
Venus— and hints at three more which she does not mention
there as belonging to the group of the Seven Sacred Planets of
the ancients.
Note also that every one of the seven globes of our Earth's
Planetary Chain is under the guidance, and is actually formed by,
one of the seven sacred planets, which, for this reason, with other
reasons, was called “ sacred So, again, each Root-Race— or
Stock-Race— of every one of the seven globes during each Globe-
Round is under the protection and guidance of one of the seven
sacred planets. But the main reason for calling them ” sacred ”
is this: As our Universal Solar System is composed of seven
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 457
planes of being— in other words is composed of seven worlds,
seven planes, seven spheres of life and activity— not " globes ”
but spheres in the larger sense, as when a man says “ spheres of
activity ”— as this fact is so, we search for an answer to the
question Why is it so ? Here is the answer, and it shows why these
planets are called " sacred These planets, these seven planets,
are the Houses, .each one to each one, of the seven logoi of our
Solar System, thus forming a minor Group at the head of which
is one of the Seven Primordial Logoi of the Universal Solar
System. When our Universal Solar System came out of latency
as a nebula, later it became a comet, still later separating into
sun and planets, each one pursuing its own particular life-path ;
the separation of the nebular inner life into Seven Cosmic Forces
for future life-activities was done by the Seven Primordial Logoi.
Put it in this way. The Chief Logos of the Universal Solar
System is sevenfold, septenary, i.e., the Solar Logos— Brahma,
as the Hindus would put it— is septenary. Then, each of these
seven minor Logoi, again sub-dividing into seven Forces or
Powers, form sevenfold Groups or minor Solar Systems, and our
Solar System is one of such Groups: seven minor logoi: each one,
each to each, is the Rector, the Guide, of one of the “ seven sacred
planets ” ; if you like, its informing Soul. But, mark this : this
former sub-division composes the Life-Forces of our Solar System.
Hence our Solar System forms a Group within the Universal
Solar System. We have explained what we mean before. In
other words, then, there are forty-nine of these minor Logoi in
our Universal Solar System; but our “ sacred seven ” which
with our Earth’s Planetary Chain compose our Solar System,
belong to our Solar Logos. In still other words, put it in this
way : As the sun has its spectrum of seven rays, so each one of
these rays again is sub-divided into seven minor rays. Please
consider that as an illustration. Our Planetary Chain, you will
remember, which will be the subject of our next study, consists
of seven globes, collectively the developed sevenfold entity of a
former sevenfold chain in another life-cycle or manvantara,
which chain is now dead, but functioning now as our moon-
chain. And remember that when we say our “ moon ” in this
particular case we mean the sevenfold moon, the entire definite
septenary entity. Our present moon, as a matter of fact, is not
the physical moon that was, which has disappeared, but is its
kama-rupa, its vampirizing shell, purely and truly in more than
one sense vampirizing. It is a phantom of the Moon that was ;
its true shell. Our Earth, which grew from it, draws still from
it the life-atoms which the karmic destiny of our Earth obliges it
to gather into itself, for its weal or for its woe, as the case
may be.
CHAPTER XLII
THE DOCTRINE OF THE SPHERES IN ITS FOUR ASPECTS. THE SEVEN
SACRED PLANETS AND THEIR RECTORS : THEIR RELATION
TO OUR EARTH-CHAIN. THE CIRCULATIONS OF THE KOSMOS :
OUTER ROUNDS AND INNER ROUNDS : SISHTAS. ONE UNI­
VERSAL BASIC LAW : AS ABOVE, SO BELOW. THE " EYE ” AND
THE “ HEART " DOCTRINES.
The most celebrated of the Babylonians, together with Ostanes and Zoroaster,
very properly call the starry spheres herds ; whether because these alone among
corporeal magnitudes, are perfectly carried about a center, or in conformity to
the oracles, because they are considered by them as in a certain respect the bonds
and collectors of physical reasons, which they likewise call in their sacred dis­
courses herds [¿tyAas], and by the insertion of a gamma [AyyAous], angels.
Wherefore the stars which preside over each of these herds are considered
demons similar to the angels, and are called archangels : and they are seven
in number.
Anon, in Theologumensis Arithmeticis— Taylor (Cory).
The “ Doctrine of the Eye ” is for the crowd ; the " Doctrine of the Heart "
for the elect. The first repeat in pride : “ Behold, I know ” ; the last, they who
in humbleness have garnered, low confess : " Thus have I heard."
The Dharma of the “ Eye " is the embodiment of the external and the non­
existing.
The Dharma of the " Heart *
* is the embodiment of Bodhi, the Permanent and
Everlasting.
The Voice of the Silence : " The Two Paths ” (H. P. Blavatsky).
T
HE traditions of mankind tell us, and the records of the
Ancient Wisdom corroborate the traditions, that the
doctrines which we have been studying for the last four
years or so have come down to us unimpaired and in
their pristine purity, in the charge of great minds, great men,
great souls, who are the heads of our Order. These traditions,
as the ages passed, dating from the mid-point of the fourth
Stock-Race or the Atlantean, took various forms as they were
given out more or less fully at different times ; took forms, we
say, in the various great world-religions ; and it is at the back
of, behind, under the surface of, these great world-religions that
we find many, if not all, of the doctrines of the Ancient Wisdom.
We should not include in these religions thus spoken of, the
various smaller religions or quasi-religious cults, however large
their extent among mankind may have been, because these
smaller religions were often the offspring of men who imperfectly
understood the Ancient Wisdom, and actually who, in some cases,
were unfaithful to their own Teachers. And therein we may find
458
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 459
one of the dominating reasons why these archaic teachings have
always been held as sacred and secret; because, as was told to
Mr. Sinnett and Mr. Hume, our Masters had and have no desire
and no wish to foist another mere exoteric religion on a world
already priest-ridden and creed-burdened.
Now, a source which is polluted at its fountain-head can hardly
give forth the pure springs which heal; and it has always seemed
one of the noblest of our present Teacher’s works that she has
kept these teachings undefiled, guarded, and so secret, indeed,
that for years none of them was given out publicly. It is only
very recently, within a few years, when a need came for doing so,
that she inaugurated these present studies. The best antidote for
folly is wisdom; for ignorance, real knowledge; for false and
therefore wholly unauthorized Theosophy, the archaic teachings
of the Wisdom-Religion.
We take up again tonight the study which was begun at our
meeting, last week ; and the main theme then, you will remember,
was what was called the Doctrine of the Spheres, of which the
doctrine of our Planetary Chain, the Planetary Chain of our
Solar System, is a particular case, as the mathematicians say.
Let us pass in brief review, at the same time perhaps slightly
bettering, the explanation that was then made, of what was then
said. The Doctrine of the Spheres comprises the entirety of the
teachings dealing with the origin, the life, and the destiny of the
spheres or planets, and of the sun, belonging to and composing
our Universal Solar System. By “ Universal ” Solar System we
mean all the bodies whatsoever, known and unknown, visible
and invisible, that revolve around the sun, which is their primary.
There are many such planets, scores of them, most of them
invisible to our eyes of flesh.
The second aspect of the Doctrine of the Spheres is the sub­
sidiary doctrine of the Planetary Chains. Each one of these
planets is a sevenfold body, comprising in a unity seven globes ;
and one of the seven is visible to our eyes in the cases of the seven
or eight or nine planets known to astronomy, because our eyes
have been trained through evolution on this planet to see them,
for these few cases belong to our own " plane ” . When we shall
be on the globes of our Chain, to which we shall pass when leaving
this earth, our senses will then be trained by nature, by evolution,
to cognise ; to sense and to see ; to know, in other words, other
celestial bodies, other planets of our Universal Solar System.
Similarly was it the case with the globes which we left in descend­
ing the Planetary Chain. Each Planetary Chain, therefore, has
seven globes, according to the teachings, existing on four planes :
two globes on each one of the three higher planes; and of these
seven globes only one is on the lowest plane ; our Earth is on this
460 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
lowest or Fourth Plane of our Chain. This doctrine of the
Planetary Chain is our main theme of study at present.
The third aspect of the Doctrine of the Spheres is what has
been called the “ Seven Sacred Planets of the ancients ”— like­
wise a teaching comprising a sevenfold mystery. These Planets
are respectively Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun (which is a substitute
for enumerative reasons for an Intra-Mercurial planet), Venus,
Mercury, and our Moon which is also a substitute for a planet
near our Earth, and which is now dying. These Seven Sacred
Planets of the ancients were called “ sacred ” for the reasons set
forth in our last study. They are the Houses of the Seven Forces
of one of the seven chief Rays of the Solar Logos : this one chief
Ray being our particular Logos. This doctrine is really very
simple, but because it is a case of seven involved in seven, it
sounds very complicated; actually it is not. There are seven
main or Chief Rays or Forces which make and which inform the
Sun; and these seven Forces are the seven Solar Logoi. Each
one of these seven main Logoi is sub-divided in its turn into
seven ; and these seven sub-divisions of one chief Ray or Logos
form the Rectors, the Genii, the Archangels if you will, of which
the " Seven Sacred Planets ” are the Houses.
Now, each one of these Seven Sacred Planets was intimately
concerned in building one of the Globes of our Planetary Chain.
Each one of the Stock-Races or “ Root-Races ” on any one of
our Seven Globes during the passage through it of the Evolving
Life-Wave, is likewise under the direct governance and control
of one of these Seven Sacred Planets ; and when we say “ planet ” ,
please note carefully that we do not mean the mere physical body
of it, the planet which we see; that is but the House of the
Sevenfold Dhyan-Chohan, the Rector, the Genius, that particular
solar Force which has builded and which uses that planet as its
House— its “ nerve-Centre ” , so to say.
The fourth aspect of the Universal Solar System deals with the
group which is so sacred that, as H. P. Blavatsky says on pages
163-4 °f Volume I of The Secret Doctrine, “ As to Mars, Mercury
and ‘ the four other planets ’, they bear a relation to Earth of
which no master or high Occultist will ever speak [in public, we
should add], much less explain the nature ” .
Now, this Doctrine of the Spheres is full of wonder. We have
merely sketched an outline of i t ; and closely connected with it
is a twin-doctrine, even more sacred and more mysterious, which
we may call the Doctrine of the Circulations of the Kosmos, of
which the Circulations of the Forces of the Universal Solar
System are a special case. Note here in passing, that the work­
ings of Karma and the Reincarnation of the human soul on earth,
are special cases, again, of these two doctrines: the Doctrine of
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 461
the Circulations which make the actions of Karma to b e ; and
the Doctrine of man’s successive re-imbodiment in houses of
flesh, as the Doctrine of the Spheres shows the building of other
globes in houses of physical form, fit for the evolving souls, and
providing bodies for them corresponding to each one of those
globes. This Doctrine of the Circulations of the Kosmos is one
which we approach with a great deal of caution. Please bear in
mind, that whatever may be said on that subject here at present,
does not by any means include all that could be said about this
recondite subject; no, not one-tenth; for the reason, as often
remarked before, that when the Teacher inaugurated our studies,
we were instructed so to speak that while those who are members
of our Order shall understand by allusion and by hint, the doctrines
nevertheless could safely be printed and sent forth publicly, for
those who are not members would not fully understand those allu­
sions and thosehints. But evenwe ourselves here today cannot hear
and should not hear relations and parts of the teachings belonging
tosuch a doctrine as the Doctrine of the Circulations of the Kosmos,
because these belong to other Groups, the higher Groups. This
Doctrine of the Circulations of the Kosmos, or of the Circulations
of the Life-Forces in the Universal Solar System, among many
other things, deals with the passage of the Life-Wave from globe
to globe on our Planetary Chain ; explains to us and elucidates
how this is done ; while the Doctrine of the Spheres sets forth to
what globes these circulations go— into which globes these
circulations enter, and in what states those globes are left when
their respective life-cycles are completed. This applies also, of
course, to us here on Earth, and to the life-atoms on our globe
here; and, for instance, tells us of such men as we shall be
on the next globe following this our Earth, and such as we
were on the globe preceding this E arth; and so on all the
globes of our Chain the Life-Wave functions similarly. That
is to say, these Circulations are related to each globe and to
all. This subject we ^hall go into, in the future, as far as we
can.
Next, with regard to these Planetary Rectors or Genii or
Dhy&n-Chohans— it matters not what name you give to them—
(each subsidiary solar logos of the seven minor logoi of one Chief
Logos forming the presiding Genius of each globe), they actually
are the builders of our Planetary Chain, plus the indwelling life
or swabhava belonging to our own Planetary Chain. The human
seed is sown, for example; it grows; becomes an embryo;
finally is born, grows into a man. There is the indwelliilg life, the
character, the inward urge, the forward push, the development
of the inner faculties ; but this is done in a world of surrounding
forces which affect it profoundly by action and reaction, or
462 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILOSOPH Y
K arm an. So w ith the g lo b e s ; so w ith our Planetary Chain as a
whole.
L et us also rem ark in passing that these Seven Sacred Planets
are profou n d ly instrum ental in building our P lanetary C h a in ;
b u t the E arth also itself is one o f another group or series of seven
planets, w hich build or co-operate in building the P lanetary Chain
o f certain other ones of our planets— so closely interrelated and
interlocked are the functionings o f the L ife-F orces and L ife-
W aves in our Solar K osm os, our U niversal Solar System .
N ow briefly passing in review questions w hich we shall 'study
in detail later, please bear in m ind that the L ife-W ave in any
P lanetary Chain— we will take our ow n as an instance o f the rule
— passes once from the first globe to the seventh, through all the
seven g lo b e s ; and w hen it has thus passed once through the
seven globes o f the Chain it com pletes w hat we call one “ Chain-
R ou n d ’ ’— ‘ ‘ R o u n d ’ ’ being a w ord w hich Mr. Sinnett coined for this
purpose, and w hich we still use. Seven such C hain-R ounds com ­
plete a L ife-C ycle of our Planetary Chain. Then w hat happens ?
W e now approach another m ystery. There are O uter R ounds
and Inner R ounds. The Inner R ou n d com prises the passages
o f the L ife-W ave in any one P lanetary Chain from G lobe A to
G lobe G (or Z) once around, and this takes place seven tim es in a
Planetary M anvantara. The O uter R ou n d — please listen care­
fully— com prises the passage o f the entirety o f a P lanetary
Chain’s L ife-W ave, b y the w orking of the D octrin e of the Circula­
tions of the Solar System , from one of these Sacred Planets to
another, and this for seven times.
R evertin g for a m om ent again to a R ou n d in a P lanetary Chain.
On our G lobe, the indw elling egoic force in any one m an, or in
any one life-entity, evolves for itself bodies correspondential to
its surroundings— bodies outer, bodies inner. The higher ones
o f these inner bodies we m ay call m onadic e g g s ; and when the
L ife-W ave leaves any one such globe o f the seven o f that Plane­
tary Chain in order to pass to the next gjobe, the vehicles corre­
spondential and belonging to that particular globe, its ow n
evolutions thereon, rem ain behind as the S is h ta s , a Sanskrit w ord
m eaning " rem ainders ” , in order to serve as the first vehicles or
bodies for the m onads when the same L ife-W ave returns on the
succeeding cycle, and after aeons upon aeons o f tim e they— the
m onads o f the returning L ife-W ave— find these “ sleeping
spheres ” , or dorm ant ” life-atom s ” or vehicles w aiting for them .
These " sleeping spheres ” or dorm ant " life-atom s ” are corre­
spondential, each one and all o f them , to the particular globe of
the Planetary Chain w hich had evolved them . Thus the Sishtas
are the already evolved or in d iv id u a liz e d vehicles or “ life-atom s ”
fit to receive the returning m onadic host.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 463
Let us now illustrate this doctrine of our Planetary Chain by
drawing seven circles, each circle to be, if you please, one of the
manifested globes of our Planetary Chain.
The Life-Wave enters Globe A, runs through its life-cycle
there, and then passes on to Globe B. Finishing its cycle on
Globe B, it passes on to Globe C ; and then to Globe D, the
lowest of the seven. In our own Chain, Globe D is our Earth.
We draw straight lines under the three higher pairs, and one
straight line under Globe D. These lines represent the four
lowest planes or worlds of our Solar System, our Universal Solar
System. There are yet three higher planes or worlds, making
seven in a ll; and beyond these higher three planes, there are still
three more, thus making the perfect number ten. Of these last
three and highest planes or worlds, we shall say nothing more
here.
But now let us draw on the three higher planes of the seven,
five more circles representing globes as follows: two globes on
the lowest plane of these three highest, two more globes on the
plane above th at; and one globe on the seventh plane from the
bottom, thus forming the acme or summit. We then shall have
twelve globes in our Planetary Chain : seven manifest, and five
hid ; and this is the system of construction (of the Solar Logoic
Force) which we are going to study— each one of these twelve
globes, by the way, corresponding in the Ancient Wisdom to one
of the twelve signs of the Zodiac. You see, then, that there are
seven globes in manifestation ; one visible to us, the lowest and
the fourth; six higher in abscondito or hid; and finally five
globes on the three higher planes of the seven planes, forming
therefore seven plus five, or twelve globes in all. This is just a
sketch, at the present time, merely outlining the teachings.
Now the question naturally arises : What is it that circles from
globe to globe of a Planetary Chain in the Inner Rounds; and
464 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
passes from one to the other and each in turn of the Seven Sacred
Planets in the Outer Rounds ? We have said that each globe of
a chain, when the Life-Wave leaves it, retains its hosts of monadic
eggs as the Sishtas. We used the word " monadic ” there in a
general sense; that is to say, it applies in all cases to that par­
ticular part of the entire human spiritual-psychological-physical
economy which corresponds to that particular globe— which
belongs to it, in short, and which is left behind much as a traveller
Diagram 2
leaves behind a house or clothing fit for certain climates and
weathers when he goes elsewhere; because he is coming back
to that his quondam house, to that his quondam home. But
what is it, what is that final ultimate, that Monad, that higher
Monad, which provides and really is the Undying Seed from
which all these others spring forth ? That is what H. P. Blavatsky
called the Spiritual Self, the Divine Soul; the Immortal Seed, the
Father-Mother, the Source, the Fountain-Head— give it any
name you like— of the oviform body, the Auric Egg, which in its
essence, not in its shape, contains the Divine-spiritual Individu­
ality of man or of any other life-entity. That is deathless,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 465
birthless ; it lasts throughout the entire Solar Manvantara, and
goes into the supreme para-nirvana only when the Universal
Solar System in the due course of its cyclic evolution passes
finally into pralaya or latency.
Now, then, just think a moment, what does all this mean ?
This means that on any one particular globe— let us take ours,
our globe Earth, as an illustration, and us men as the examples
for the illustration— we evolve here partly from within without
by ojir own inner swabhSvic urge, and partly from without
inwards by the reaction of the Nature around us, certain person­
alities and certain characters and certain vehicles, exactly
correspondential to the globe on which we then are. Those
characters and personalities and vehicles are utterly unfit for
another globe, utterly unfit for another plane. They could no
more pass to another plane or live on another globe than— let us
say— a rose could live at the bottom of the ocean. They do not
belong there; they belong on this earth; they belong in the
material and psychological atmospheres of this earth; they
belong in and to that particular world of circulation of forces
which make this earth and which actually are this earth. We do
not find roses growing at the North Pole, nor glaciers at the sea-
level in the tropics. Everything in Nature is fit for and has its
own place.
Similarly, on every one of the other globes of our Chain, there
are bodies or vehicles, etc., evolved, inner bodies and outer
bodies, correspondential in each case to those globes, belonging
there, which we have made when there, and which we left behind
when we left those globes. Similarly, as there is but one funda­
mental rule, one basic “ law,” to use the popular word, throughout
all the Kosmos, when man reincarnates he comes back with the
same spiritual individuality, indeed, he comes back with the
same higher human individuality; but he evolves for himself
each time, and on each globe— because the Race is different, the
karman is different, |the circumstances are different, since
succeeding evolution has evolved both him and the surrounding
globe still more— he evolves personalities, vehicles, etc., out of
himself anew from the seeds which at each preceding death had
passed into latency in the character, and thus passes into and
informs anew the globe monadic eggs of various sorts formerly
left behind on the different globes when the Life-Wave left them
to pass onwards.
Those of you who are Oriental Classical scholars will readily
see how what has been said, little as it is thus far, throws a light
which is really dazzling upon the teachings of the greater ones of
the ancient religions, such as that or those of E gypt; such as
that or those of Greece ; pre-eminently so as regards the doctrines
466 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
of Brahmanism and Buddhism in India and the Farther Orient.
No wonder is it, that Theosophy has been called the unifying
philosophy of the world. It shows the Why and the How of all
these great ancient religions. It tells us what they were and
what they meant; and we shall find as our studies progress that
the promise which the Teacher told us to make when these studies
were first inaugurated, to the effect that, among other things,
they were to explain the ancient religions, will be fully kept. No
promises are made in our Order, which are not kept and fulfilled.
Now, then, one may ask oneself— and this is a slight digression
but apparently necessary— why is there so much talk of seven :
seven here and seven there and seven everywhere ? Comrades, do
we live in an anarchical universe, a helter-skelter universe, one
without order or well-defined shape ? Or do we live in a universe
every atom of which is in the grip of forces controlled by Forces
still higher and morerecondite and powerful ? Obviously the latter.
And these higher forces are in the grip and control of still higher
ones. This simply means that there is one consistent Life-Wave
running throughout all Being ; and being one coherent and con­
sistent Will, having one basic direction, it must act on all planes of
the Universe more or less in the same way. Hence you see the need,
the necessity, the value, to us, yea and the beauty, of the ancient
teachings, proclaiming the fundamental operation of Nature,
commonly called the “ law of analogy ”, expressed by the Her­
metic axiom “ As above, so below; as below, so above ” .
The Primal Kosmic Logos, let us say, has one direction in which
its Will pours forth in floods of light and life. Those floods pass
through their various cycles and formations in " descending into
matter ” , and “ re-arising ” again towards their source. By doing
so they but follow— and cannot do otherwise— the powerful
impulses springing from the central Heart, that one Will. We are
tempted to use the words " purpose ” , or " design ” , were it not
that these words are so misused in the Christian theological
schemes, that it would almost give to ordinary listeners an idea
of a Kosmic personal God, and that blasphemy we do not recog­
nise. Just here is where enter the operations of Karman. Karman
is not a “ law ” made by something or somebody. It is the
inherent nature or quality of Kosmic Being to react against action
upon it. It is the doctrine of Consequences. Kosmically speak­
ing, it has its flow of action or force in a certain direction, which
is the Will, the Life-flow, of the Kosmic Logos, and this Life-Flow
of the Logos, as said before, springing from one heart, the central
heart of our Solar System, and thus forming the constitution or
fundamental operation of Universal Nature, everything in that
Nature obeys its direction; and hence we have the doctrine re­
garding the seven, because it is but the photographing, so to say,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 467
on our minds, of the facts of the Kosmos, the Solar Logos being
divided into ten parts, of which seven are manifest, and three
occult or hid. Everything which owes its life to the Logos, which
is part of the Logos, which is subject to the sweep of its energy,
and, to use the popular word, to its “ law ” , is therefore by Primal
Necessity likewise built on a sevenfold plan.
So we can now, with these words of introduction, pass on to
consider the first aspect of the Doctrine of the Spheres, called our
Earth’s Planetary Chain. This, as illustrated in Diagram 2, is
composed of seven globes in manifestation, and five hid : the two
highest of the lower seven forming the models for the five and last
below. The two next globes are grosser and more material; the
two following are of still grosser and more material constituency ;
the series of planes ending with our Earth, which is the copy here
below of the super-spiritual globe forming the last or twelfth—
or first— in our entire Planetary Chain.
Those of you who know your Classics will remember how Plato
speaks of the fact that the Deity geometrizes according to a twelve­
fold plan. Why has the Zodiac twelve Houses or Signs ? Why
were there twelve great Gods— seven manifested and five occult—
in all the great world-religions of ancient times ? In these ancient
religions, the forms of expression and the words differed, but the
“ Heart-Doctrine ” was there and the same in them a ll: the
" Doctrine of the Heart ” ; not the “ Doctrine of the Eye ” ,
i.e., the outward things which were seen, the ceremonial ritual and
worship which varied, often greatly, the ones from the others.
That was the exoteric part— not “ false ” , but unexplained ; but
the Doctrine of the Heart, to use our ancient language, our ancient
phraseology, meaning the Doctrine of that which is hid and not
seen, and which is the higher expression of Truth, is hid, not
visible to the physical eye. Therefore the outpourings from man’s
nobler nature, from his higher soul; spiritual, beautiful, holy, yea
and divine, were called collectively the “ Doctrine of the Heart ”
also. ^
Now you will remember that we said at our last meeting that
Mr. Sinnett and Mr. Hume and later others had misunderstood
and misinterpreted the Masters’ teachings with regard to the
globes which compose our own Planetary Chain ; and we referred
then to the first volume of The Secret Doctrine, and H. P. Bla-
vatsky’s kindly but nevertheless mercifully caustic criticisms of
Mr. Sinnett’s idea that his merely scientifically trained mind knew
the secrets of Nature really better than his Teacher did, or than
did H. P. Blavatsky, his second Teacher ; and on these pages of
The Secret Doctrine, pages 163-4 of the first volume, you will find
what she says on the matter. In the first place, she says that in
answer to Mr. Sinnett’s query the Teacher gave a reply which was
468 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
more or less vague. This was because the question was very vague.
Mr. Sinnett never seemed to realize that he was asking questions,
in "certain cases, which simply could not be answered by anyone
pledged to secrecy. What then was to be done ? The Teacher had
offered himself to teach. The time had come to teach the world
somewhat of the Ancient Wisdom ; a few seeds were to be sown
in the world’s thought-life. Yet the answer had to be given in a
vague way. Had Mr. Sinnett questioned with perfect definite­
ness, on definite subjects of which he himself had a definite
knowledge, he would doubtless have received a definite answer, or
would have been told that his question could not be answered
for the reasons already set forth. This refusal to answer, indeed
happened several times. His question in this connexion was, as
read at our last meeting: " What planets, of those known to
ordinary science, besides Mercury, belong to our system of
worlds ? ” We have seen that in Occultism " our system of
worlds ” can refer to at least four different things : our Universal
Solar System ; our Planetary Chain ; our group of Seven Sacred
Planets; and this Mystery-group— Earth, Mercury, Mars, and
four other secret planets.
Well, the answer came back generalized : " Mars and four other
planets, of which astronomy knows yet nothing,” referring most
particularly to the Mystery-Group. And why ? Because Mr.
Sinnett had just previously been questioning his informant on a
certain aspect of the teachings which could not be fully explained
without giving out the doctrine concerning this Mystery-Group.
That is all there was to that. And H. P. Blavatsky says here :
" As to Mars, Mercury, and the four other planets, they bear a
relation to Earth of which no Master will ever speak, much less
explain the nature ” .
Now, obviously, this sentence does not refer to our Planetary
Chain, because H. P. Blavatsky had already said that Mars and
Mercury do not belong to it. Evidently, she is referring to some
other Group. H. P. Blavatsky also wrote^as follows : “ For the
reply was : ‘ Mars, etc. [as a matter of fact the Teacher’s answer
did not contain the word etc.], and four other planets of which
astronomy knows nothing.” The Teacher’s answer contained
the word yet, " yet nothing ” . “ Neither A, B, nor Y, Z, are
known, nor can they be seen through physical means, however
perfected.”
Then H. P. Blavatsky continues: "This is plain: (a) Astronomy
as yet knows nothing in reality of the planets, neither the ancient
ones, nor those discovered in modem times ” . Obviously, she is
merely speaking of visible planets; for modem astronomy did
not then admit the existence of other planets on other planes of
the Solar System, and does not admit them today. “ (b) No
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 469
Companion planets from A to Z, i.e., no upper globes of any chain
in the Solar System, can be seen.” Disproving again what Mr.
Sinnett thought. But also mark you this: The Teacher in his
answer to Mr. Sinnett did not say “ companion planets from A to
Z ” as H. P. Blavatsky here writes. He said “ Neither A, B, nor
Y, Z ” , specifying four planets, two in the beginning, and two at
the end of the Mystery-Group. You see, then, that there is much
behind all this, much that does not appear on the surface. H. P.
Blavatsky in her turn was faced with precisely the same situation
as the Master was. She could not tell the whole truth, because
pledged to secrecy; yet she had to give some answer; and she
did what Teachers from immemorial time have done in similar
cases. They gave an answer, which was perfectly true, as far as
they could go, but they deliberately, in view of the interlocking of
the nature of the Kosmos and also therefore of our teachings,
allowed a hint of something else to come in at the same time,
which served a double purpose: for it was what is called a
“ blind ” , and yet was absolutely responsive and truthful, as far
as it went.
Then on page 167 (The Secret Doctrine, Volume I) H. P. Bla­
vatsky quotes from the Teacher’s words again : “ ‘ Let us imagine
that our Earth is one of a Group of Seven Planets or M
an­
bearing Worlds. . . .’ ” Then in parenthesis, and this paren­
thesis is H. P. Blavatsky’s, “ (The Seven planets are the sacred
planets of antiquity, and are all septenary) ” . Here still another,
a third, Aspect of the Doctrine of the Spheres is alluded to. This
is a perfect illustration of how such a situation has to be faced. As
still another example of the policy of secrecy we mention, in
another place in The Secret Doctrine you will find H. P. Blavat­
sky’s statement that our Earth does not belong to the Seven
Sacred Planets of the ancients, and here she says that it does, and
the two statements are apparently contradictory. It is a paradox,
but it is not contradictory. And fortunately this paradox is easy
of explanation. The Seven Sacred Planets of the ancients as
planets of the Solar System, are those mentioned in the beginning
of our study tonight, i.e., Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sun, (a substi­
tute) Venus Mercury, and Moon as a substitute. Our Earth is
not included, as you see. But as we also pointed out tonight, each
one of the globes of our Planetary Chain is the child of, in a sense—
built by, controlled by, and guided by— one of these seven Sacred
Planets, that is to say, by the respective Genius or Rector of each
of the Seven Sacred Planets. Hence, the seven globes of our
Planetary Chain were likewise frequently called the Seven Sacred
Planets by the ancients, because those seven globes were builded
by their co-operative instrumentality, and are under their guid­
ance. The globes were builded by the Seven Sacred Planets, plus,
470 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
as before remarked, the action of the indwelling swabhavic life of
our own Planetary Chain.
Our time is drawing very near to an end for this evening, but
we wish to call attention to two facts only before closing. First,
the seven globes of our Planetary Chain are not the seven Princi­
ples of the Earth. The analogy is good and very striking ; yet
these seven globes of our Planetary Chain are, each one, a distinct
and separate entity ; each one of the seven, our Earth included,
has its own seven principles. Yet the other six globes of our Chain
are not the other six Principles of our Earth. Our older students
are probably smiling at the notion, for the idea is grotesque. It is
as much as to say that seven men, seven chelas of our Masters, a
group of seven chelas, are the seven principles each of each. Not
at all. The seven globes form a single Group, but each one is a
separate entity and has its own seven principles.
The second thing is this, that these so-called planes, these seven
planes which we have spoken of tonight, should really and truly
be called Worlds. It is very difficult to find a proper word to
describe this fact. These planes or rather Worlds, collectively are
the Lokas and the Talas which we studied during recent meetings ;
seven Lokas and seven Talas, corresponding one to the other,
each to each. This bipolarity of Loka and Tala, repeated seven
times on seven decreasing degrees of materiality counting up­
wards, or increasing degrees of materiality counting downwards,
are the seven Planes or rather Worlds of the Solar System macro-
cosmically; the seven Planes or Worlds of our Planetary Chain
are the Lokas and Talas microcosmically. These Lokas and
Talas, then, are worlds. Look at the world around us : the stars
above us, the earth beneath our feet, the winds blowing— in short,
all the world we see and feel and know. It is one of the Lokas and
one of the Talas conjointly. And these Lokas and Talas correspond
one to the other, each to each, exactly as in the case of the bi­
polarity of magnetism or of electricity on our plane. Funda­
mentally they are one, but they manifest in bipolar character.
That particular force or vital current whose tendency is down­
wards, forms that aspect of the union which is called the Tala of
any world. And the other, whose aspect is upwards or, technically
speaking, north, forms the Loka.
At our next study we shall begin a rather detailed investigation
of our Planetary Chain, having now covered the various outlying
fields of that which it was necessary briefly to survey before we
could adequately understand the teachings regarding the Earth's
Planetary Chain.
CHAPTER XLIII
ANALOGY ! THE LIFE OF MAN AND THE LIFE OF A PLANETARY
CHAIN. OCCULTISM AND ETHICS : “ LIVE THE LIFE IF THOU
WOULDST KNOW THE DOCTRINE.”
Analogy is thus the surest guide to the comprehension of the Occult teachings.
Everything in the Universe follows analogy. “ As above, so below ” ; Man
is the microcosm of the Universe. That which takes place on the spiritual plane
repeats itself on the Cosmic plane. Concretion follows the lines of abstraction ;
corresponding to the highest must be the lowest; the material to the spiritual.
The Secret Doctrine (H. P. B l a v a t s k y ), I, 173, 177.
As you may infer by analogy every globe before it reaches its adult period,
has to pass through a formation period— also septenary. Law in Nature is
uniform and the conception, formation, birth, progress and development of the
child differs from those of the globe only in magnitude. The globe has two
periods of teething and of capillature— its first rocks which it also sheds to make
room for new— and its ferns and mosses before it gets forest. As the atoms in
the body change [every] seven years so does the globe renew its strata every
seven cycles.
The correspondence between a mother-globe and her child-man, may be
thus worked out. Both have their seven principles. In the Globe, the ele­
mentáis (of which there are in all seven species) form (a) a gross body, (b) her
fluidic double (linga-áariram), (c) her life principle (jiva), (d) her fourth principle
káma-rúpa is formed by her creative impulse working from center to circum­
ference, (e) her fifth principle (animal soul or Manas, physical intelligence) is
embodied in the vegetable (in germ) and animal kingdoms, (/) her sixth principle
(or spiritual soul, Buddhi) is man, (g) and her seventh principle (átmá) is in a film
of spiritualized ákááa that surrounds her. The Mahatma utters, pp. 93. 94-
Those alone, whom we call adepts, who know how to direct their mental
vision and to transfer their consciousness— physical and psychic both— to other
planes of being, are able to speak with authority on such subjects. And they
tell us plainly :
“ Lead the life necessary j%r the acquisition of such knowledge and powers, and
Wisdom will come to you naturally. Whenever you are able to attune your con­
sciousness to any of the seven chords of ' Universal Consciousness,’ those chords
that run along the sounding-board of Kosmos, vibrating from one Eternity to
another ; when you have studied thoroughly ' the music of the Spheres,* then only
will you become quite free to share your knowledge with those with whom it is safe
to do so . . .” The Secret Doctrine, I, 166, 167.
T
HESE teachings may seem recondite when first heard,
and so indeed they are ! But, like all our Theosophical
teachings, there is one aspect of them which is very
simple and contains the principal idea of each thought,
i . e of each doctrine ; and it is, in each and every case, this main
or principal idea which the Teacher has asked us to illustrate, it
471
472 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
remaining for yourselves to fill in the details, and to prove by
your own studies the theorems advanced.
But may it not be a good thing to point out that one of the
noblest results of these studies is the effect it has on the moral
nature of man, of the student ? You may tell a man to “ be good
because it is good to be good ” , as remarked once before ; and this
statement is perfectly correct and probably no one will object to
i t ; but it will not go very deep into the hearer’s consciousness
and mind. But if you tell a man that he is, in essence, *tn in­
carnate god, an incarnate divinity in his essence, and that he has
come down into these spheres of matter for purposes of universal
work, and that he is failing in his duty, he is failing in his relation­
ship to his own Higher Self, if that duty be not accomplished, then
you put a thought into that man’s mind which allows him to
think, and makes him think, and gives him a basis for morals, a
religious and philosophical basis, which if he has any good in him
at all, he himself will follow up to the end.
It is absurd to think that any one of our Theosophical doctrines
can be divorced from its ethical aspect. They cannot be separated
so ; and this, perhaps, is the distinction most easily understood
between the teachings of our own archaic Order, and those of the
various so-called cults or cultuses or quasi-religions which spring
up like mushrooms from age to age and from time to time, and
have a longer or shorter life, depending on circumstances, causing
meanwhile more or less deplorable spiritual injury to the unfortu­
nate people who hear of them and follow them in confidence and
misplaced trust.
One of our Comrades here present was discussing jocularly a
paper the other evening, which the present speaker heard him
read. It was a letter addressed to him as being a writer of some
international renown and of growing international fame ; and it
was obviously intended and written in order to appeal to him in a
very subtile way ; it made great and pretentious claims for the
writers of i t ; it stated that the members of the quasi-mystical
group of bewildered folk to which the writer of the letter belonged,
did not adhere to any other society or organization— all of which
in itself was enough to condemn such pretentious claims in the
eyes of genuine Occultists; but the writer subtilely hinted and
implied that the Masters were behind the writer of this truly
foolish document. The letter stated, in substance, that if the
recipient of it joined their little group of bewildered mystics, he
would be put in touch with the Masters ; that we are now living
in the Fifth Root-Race, and after that will come the Sixth Root-
Race, and that a time of peril is approaching, the planets fore­
casting the crisis; the implication in the letter being, and the
inference expected to be drawn by the reader being, that if he
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 473
joined their group he would be one of the elect and therefore
saved. There was more matter of the same kind. The letter was
signed “ N o.----- , a pupil of the Master ” , or words to that effect.
Now the merest tyro in Occultism knows that any one who
claims publicly to be a chela of the Masters, de facto proves
that he is not one, and that he is an impostor. This is an age-old
and invariable rule ; and the only exceptions to it are those who
are the direct* Messengers of the Masters, and who are sent out
into the world for public work, such as H. P. Blavatsky, Pytha­
goras, Lao-tse, and many more such.
So far as this question of ethics, as connected with our teach­
ings, is concerned, pray remember that you cannot understand
them adequately unless you “ live the life ” that they inculcate.
Our Teachers have told us so, plainly : " Live the life as it ought
to be lived, and Knowledge will come to you naturally There
is only one Truth in Nature, and understanding of it comes
naturally to him or her who " obeys the law ” . Real knowledge
brings modesty and compassion and magnanimity and courage
in its train; and all the fine, old, noble virtues; and those
virtues are the insignia which mark the real disciple, not foolish
claims which, in direct proportion as the claims are false, are
the more foolishly pretentious. The greater the claims, the less
truth is there behind them.
With regard to these doctrines being so difficult; it is a matter
of real pleasure to see that, for the first time in many thousands
of years under any Teacher’s direction, such doctrines as we have
been studying at our last two meetings could have been openly
spoken of in a large audience, and have been understood even in
small degree. It shows, at least, that we as students have made
some progress along the Path. These doctrines are very difficult,
not merely in their elucidation, which we are attempting, but also
because they are so intimately interwoven together. Yet, as often
pointed out in these Temple-meetings, this very fact contains the
clue, the Ariadne’s Thread, leading to their solution. The very
fact that, just as the forces and principles and planes of Nature
are so interlocked and are so intimately bound together that
if you really know one you know more or less of all, just so is it with
these doctrines. If you really know one with some fair degree of
complete knowledge— some fair degree, I say— you have a more
or less perfect key that will fit the locks of all.
Thus, as one of our Comrades said very truthfully, in substance,
at our last meeting: '* The Professor is perfectly right in
repeatedly calling our attention to the law of analogy ’’. Indeed
so. It is the fundamental “ law ” , or, if you like, the fundamental
operation, of our processes of thinking, derived from Nature
because we are the children of Nature ; for just as the highest is
474 FUNDAMENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
reflected in the lowest, so is the working of the human mind. If
you follow the workings of Nature as taught in Occultism, you
will find that the lowest is but the exemplification or copy of what
is above. But when we say that in our lectures we refer to and
follow the " law of analogy ”— the operation in Nature of the
“ law ” of analogy— as our main basis of reasoning and exposition,
please do not misconstrue that statement to mean that the
Teacher has brought us together here merely in order to listen to
the individual ideas of the lecturer. That would indeed lje an
inexcusable mockery of your highest hopes and of your holiest
aspirations. No. These teachings, which we have been studying
together here, you will yourselves find in the pages of The Secret
Doctrine. Search, and you will find them. Yet it may take you
years to find them. But that is no real reason for discouragement.
Why, in the old times, in India for example, the pupil had to pass
ten or twelve years in the study of the sacred Sanskrit language
alone, before he was even allowed to read the scriptures written
in that noble tongue; twelve more years were then passed in
study of the scriptures before he was allowed even to speak of, or
to give an opinion upon them. Twenty-four years of daily study,
from eight to twelve hours a day, so sacred were these ancient
teachings then held to b e ! No one may expect or need think
that he or she can have any comprehension of our teachings
without some honest effort on his own part, or her own part, to
study them, to understand them, and, above everything else, to
think about them, to reflect on them. That is the greatest help
of all, to reflect, to ponder them in the mind, to brood over them.
Now, at our last study, you will remember, we passed in brief
general review the doctrines concerning the birth, building,
growth, maturity, decline, and final death, of our Planetary
Chain. This short general review was made in order that the
many and various statements made in The Secret Doctrine, here and
there, and dealing with all these four aspects of the general
Doctrine of the Spheres, should be separated in our minds. No
Teacher can give out any such recondite doctrine in its fullness,
in easy language. These doctrines closely interlock; and the
more esoteric part is always deliberately hid under the same
words which set forth the exoteric presentation. The former
must be picked out and studied ; the intuition must be developed ;
the intellect polished; and, above everything else, the spiritual
nature must be appealed to and aspired to. This process of study
is not so difficult as it sounds, for these higher faculities are innate
in us. The spiritual nature is the real Man. The constant appeals
to us by our Teachers to look inwards and to look upwards, are
not meaningless; they have a most profound practical value for
the serious student,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 475
We open, then, our study tonight by reading from the first
volume of The Secret Doctrine as follows, on page 158 :
Everything in the metaphysical as in the physical Universe is
septenary. Hence every sidereal body, every planet, whether visible
or invisible, is credited with six companion globes. The evolution of
life proceeds on these seven globes or bodies from the first to the
seventh in Seven Rounds or Seven Cycles.
That is, the Life-Wave circles around the seven globes in seven
different courses, each course from Globe One to Globe the last,
being called a Round. But let us not confuse a general or Chain-
Round from Globe A to Globe G or the last, with a Globe-Round,
which merely means the passing through or traversing of any one
of these seven globes by the Life-Waves. This latter is a Globe-
Round. Furthermore, these Rounds, circling, revolving, from
Globe A to Globe G, in any one Planetary Chain— ours for
instance— is called an “ Inner Round ” . The “ Outer Rounds ” ,
as pointed out at our last meeting, refer to the Seven Sacred
Planets ; and these Outer Rounds we shall not touch upon except
very incidentally, at least not in this Group. There is no
authorization from the Teacher for it. But it ought to be pointed
out that these Seven Sacred Planets actually build and govern
and oversee, each to each, all the seven Globes of our Earth’s
Chain. What are the correspondences here ? Let us point them
out. We draw a diagram of the twelve Globes of our Earth’s
Planetary Chain once more :
O 0 O
o____ o_
® ' ©
® ©
© © ®
476 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Beginning with the seven globes on our manifested Planetary
Chain, below the line which we have drawn in order to separate
them from the five which are hid, we will call the first Globe A, the
next Globe B, the next C, the next D, which is our Earth. The
one above us on the ascending Arc is E, the next one above it is F,
and the last one of the seven we shall mark as G. There are,
furthermore, as shown in this diagram, five hid Globes on the
three higher planes of the Solar Kosmos, the Universal Solar
System, which Globes we merely mention in passing.
Now the Sacred Planet which builds and forms Glol>e A,
subject of course' to the Swabhava of Globe A— that is to say, its
own indwelling Genius or Will or Spirit, its own individuality,
just as a growing child is shaped more or less by its environment,
but nevertheless has its own growing individuality and person­
ality— the Sacred Planet, I say, that builds Globe A, is the Sun,
or rather that planet for which the Sun is an enumerative substi­
tute, and which, if you please, we will call Vulcan. The Sacred
Planet which builds the second Globe B, is Jupiter. The Sacred
Planet which builds Globe C, the one preceding ours on the
downward Arc, and from which we came during this Round,
before we entered the Earth-Globe, is Venus. The Sacred Planet
building our own Earth is Saturn. The one building Globe E, to
which we shall go when we leave Globe D our Earth, is Mercury.
The one building Globe F, is Mars ; and the one building Globe G,
or the last, is the Moon, or rather the planet for which the moon is
an exoteric enumerative substitute.
Note well, however, that in all cases we mean the spiritual
Genius or Rector (not the physical planet) which is the Builder, the
Former, the Overseer, of any respective Globe of our Earth’s
Chain.
Please understand then, that these Genii or Rectors, these
Sacred Planets actually are the Kosmocratores of our Planetary
Chain, the World-Builders; plus the swabhavic impulses
emanating from the Planetary Chain itself: as, for instance, a
child is bom on earth ; it has its own indwelling vitality, its own
personality, its own Individuality, its own inner push and urge
to life and experience ; but it is born into an environment, into
conditions, which mold it in a very large degree, and which
similiarly in large degree direct the way and manner in which its
body and higher principles are builded and work and function.
We merely allude here once more to what was said, I think at
our last meeting, that when the last of the Seven Rounds of our
Earth’s Planetary Chain is fully completed, the Life-Waves pass
on to one of the “ Outer Rounds ” . Now you know that the Moon
which we see in our evening skies is but the relic, the Kama-rfipa,
of a former planet which lived and completed its Life-Cycle before
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 477
our Earth existed, and which was as full of life and the hosts of
Lives as our Earth is now. It also ran the course of its seven
Rounds, along seven lunar Globes, and when its septenary Life-
Cycle was completed, when its seventh Round was completed,
what then happened ? Each Globe, as the Life-Wave left it after
completing the last globe-round of the seventh Chain-Round,
passed into invisibility, was in abscondito, after it had cast forth
its energies, ar large part of its life-atoms, into a laya-center
in space.
Let* us take these seven globes, as shown in the diagram, which
represent the Chain of our Earth, and imagine them, if you
please, to be the seven Globes of our Moon during its last Round.
We mean the Seventh or last Moon-Round. When the Globe-
Round on A is completed, or rather nearly completed, the ten
classes of life-entities prepare to leave it. The class which is most
advanced, project their energy into space, into another point of
the Solar System, into what is called a laya-center, which we have
described before— and which is a Sanskrit word meaning a
homogeneous center, a center of homogeneous substance, on a
spiritual plane of course, using the word “ spiritual ” in a general
sense. And this process goes on, for all the ten classes of that
Globe A, each one of these ten families or stocks leaving the globe
one by one, until, when the time has come for the last animalcule
of the last stock to leave the Globe, that Globe then suddenly
disappears— and is in abscondito, invisible. And why ? The
reason is this: All matter, as even our scientists today are
beginning to realize, is but another form of Kosmic Force, for
Force and Matter are one. All matter is built up of atoms ; these
atoms in turn are built up of electrons and protons ; and these in
their turn are but tiny substantial entities, built up of energic
matter or force— force and matter being fundamentally one, as
spirit and substance are fundamentally one.
Hence, when the life-atoms, when the life, so to say, leaves the
globe, it vanishes, because those life-atoms are its ultimate
particles. The Globe i& not annihilated, but it passes into the
state which is called in abscondito, or invisibility. This is perhaps
the most difficult point of all others in our study to explain,
because there is nothing known to us at present on Earth that we
can point to as being analogous to it. At any rate, such is the
fact; and, as I have tried to point out, when the life leaves an
atom, its sub-atoms, so to speak, are not annihilated, but, as it
were, they separate and they become invisible, and the portions
of the undeveloped substance which remain behind pass into
latency, into dormancy, much like ice-crystals hanging in space ;
pass into latency as tiny globules of Force-Matter, and remain in
that state until the attraction to activity later comes— which is
478 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
another subject which we shall have to go into some day— to
join the new Earth-Globe A, the life-atom returning, after aeons
of wandering transmigration, to its own life-source.
Similarly with Globe B of the Moon-Chain, the same process
takes place, and it vanishes. And so with all the seven globes.
How is it then, it may be asked, if Globe D of the Moon-Chain
vanished, that we see our present Moon ? We have before pointed
out that our Moon is a phantom, a Kama-rupa, v
of the Moon’s
Globe D that was, but we of Earth happen to be on the plane of
what was the astral to the Lunarians. We have gone up a step,
and we see with our physical eyes what would have been invisible
to us when we lived on the Moon. As a man when departing this
life leaves his kama-rupa in the astral realms behind him, the
shade, as the ancients put it, his spook, until it disintegrates— if
haply that be the man’s fortunate destiny— so does it happen
with the globes ; because these globes are living things. Can life
come from anything but life ? Clear your minds of the idea that
there is any dead matter. Wipe out all that old scientific trash of
fifty or one hundred years ago. There is nothing in it. Already it
is ancient and forgotten. Even the scientists now have new
theories. Fifty years ago there was nothing but matter. The
forces were only “ modes of motion ” . Forces per se did not exist;
nor did anybody know how such “ modes of motion ” arose out of
dead matter. Now, however, they are beginning to tell us that
there is no matter, that there is nothing but force ; and that what
we call the modes of matter are merely quanta of Force or Energy,
certain forms or functions of what these very metaphysical
scientists call “ Energy ” or “ Force ” or what-not.
Thus, these various globes of the Moon-Chain cast their life-
substance each into a laya-center; these seven laya-centers
forming as it were the planes of rest of these “ sleeping spheres
There is more behind this, which we cannot now go into ; but it
would be dishonest to pass over this point without calling to your
attention one fact, that the higher nature of a globe, as of a man
its child, is deathless, and tastes never of 'death— during the Solar
Manvantara, at least; sleeps not during these intermediate times
of planetary rest, but is in Nirvana, for some period of time, at
least. Please mark those words.
After long aeons of time, these sleeping spheres re-awaken for
another period of manifestation, in principle exactly as a man
returns to earth-incarnation. The thrill of active or to-be-
manifested life now runs through these seven laya-centers, and
they begin to differentiate. Do you know that the secrets
regarding death and human incarnation are bound up in this
subject of the Planetary Spheres, the Planetary Chain, and also
in that marvellous, wonderful doctrine of the Circulations of the
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 479
Kosmos ? As far as the present speaker can do so, and knows
that he is authorized to speak on this subject in this Group, he is
doing so ; but, speaking with plain frankness, it is impossible to
set forth all concerning so esoteric a matter in lectures which are
going forth to the public some day. Therefore, please understand
certain reticences; and please try to find more in the words than
are said ; because, truly, there is much more behind them.
What do the Christians mean— we make a slight digressionwhich
seems,necessary and interesting as well— what do the Christians
mean when they speak of the Resurrection of the bodies of
the Dead ? A ludicrous doctrine this, if taken at its face-
value as taught by the old-style theology. Much well-merited
criticism by independent thinkers has been directed against this
Christian dogma— well-merited criticism, we said ; but never­
theless in its pagan origin it was one of the old Mystery-teachings.
Here is a part, at least, of the secret of it. The life-atoms which
form a man's body, which form a man's astral body, which form
a man's psychic nature, which form a man's mental and spiritual
nature, are his offspring, the off-throwings of the man in life who
now physically is what we call “ dead ". They are far more
“ bone of his bone and flesh of his flesh ", incomparably more so,
than is the son of his parents, because they are himself, his own
dissipated life-atoms, and they will return to him as inevitably
and as infallibly as the strokes of karman for good or ill fall upon
a man who has originated them, who has acted upon Nature,
which automatically reacts, rebounds, against the action. These
life-atoms come back to him in the succeeding life, when the
attraction pulls them, when the gravitational pull comes from
the entity descending again through the various planes of
substance into reincarnation. Each plane that he passes through
after death in going out, in going up, is again traversed in coming
down into reincarnation ; and these life-atoms flow to him by
gravitational attraction, by magnetic pull, and form anew his
various vehicles on the yarious planes of his being. They are the
life-atoms, as one of our Comrades now here present said years
ago in a well-found phrase, whose “ faces he once dirtied ",
perhaps, and which he now again must wash ; or, again, those
which he had helped on their upward way. Because, verily, these
life-atoms are themselves germ-souls in their essence, even as we
men in our higher natures are Children of the Highest— of the
Logos, whose very essence is in us, is we ourselves! These life-
atoms also, even as we ourselves, are building for an immortal
destiny; and this is a really fine illustration of the interlocking
of the hosts of lives of Universal Being.
Think of the mystery, of the wonder, behind this beautiful fact.
In that way, also, are the worlds builded, This, then, is the
480 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
secret meaning of the Christian doctrine of the resurrection of the
body, an old Mystery-teaching ignorantly adopted— not the old
body which Mr. Brown or Mr. Jones or Mr. Smith had, for that is
gone forever ; but the life-atoms which builded that former body
and actually were it, collect anew to form the new body of the
reincarnating man. As they were his before, so now they come
back and build him a body more or less closely like to the one he
had left at death in the former life. Can you escape the action of
the Law, as our present Teacher says ? Think of the moralview-
points that this action of Karman brings to your eyes. Think
of the responsibility, moral and physical and mental and spiritual,
that is ours. We suffer from our own acts, and we have joy from
our own acts; and these little beings, these embryonic souls,
these life-atoms, build the bodies of the vehicles which once again
we live in. Man, each one of us, in future aeons of time, after ages
upon ages in the future, is destined to be a Logos; and the
beings then in his care and charge, his own life-atoms then more
or less “ grown-up ” , will be the archangels, the angels, the
prajapatis, the manus, the human souls, and all the various
smaller entities, less entities such as we now know of beneath us.
The Logos that is now our own Highest, our own “ Father in
Heaven ” , was, aeons upon aeons upon aeons agone, a man also,
of whom our present hosts of Beings were then the life-atoms,
marching upwards and onwards. Can you imagine and see, now,
why these doctrines have always been kept so secret and sacred ?
Suppose that they were subject to misunderstanding, and mis­
represented in cheap advertisement, such as was pointed out in
the first part of our lecture this evening— dropped in the mire,
“ cast before the swine ” , as the Syrian teacher said 1
But there is danger in all this. There is always a danger in
saying more than should be said about these esoteric and holy
doctrines. We have not said more than should be said ; we are
merely elucidating and explaining under the direction of our
Teacher, what has been said by hint ai]d allusion in The Secret
Doctrine by H. P. Blavatsky, and by M
r.* Judge and by our own
present Leader and Teacher in her many lectures, particularly on
“ self-directed evolution ” , which thought is at the back of all this
wonderful doctrine.
In future years, or in another Group under the Teacher’s
instructions, we may go deeper into these things; but surely
enough has been said tonight to show the analogy and the much
that might be said between the life of man and that of a Planetary
Chain.
At our next meeting, Comrades, we shall take up the beginning
of the growth of the Earth’s Planetary Chain along the lines of the
thoughts which we have investigated this evening.
CHAPTER XLIV
PRINCIPLES OF THOUGHT AND STUDY t CAN OCCULTISM BE
TAUGHT ? . ANCIENT ASTROLOGY A TRUE SCIENCE. OUR
EARTH-CHAIN OF GLOBES, THE SEVEN SACRED PLANETS, AND
THE TWELVE ZODIACAL SIGNS. LIFE-ATOMS : THE BUILDING-
BLOCKS OF THE UNIVERSE.
Astrology is a science as infallible as astronomy itself, with the condition,
however, that its interpreters must be equally infallible ; and it is this condition,
sine qua non, so very difficult of realization, that has always proved a stumbling-
block to both. Astrology is to exact astronomy what psychology is to exact
physiology. In astrology and psychology one has to step beyond the visible
world of matter, and enter into the domain of transcendent spirit.
Isis Unveiled (H. P. B l a v a t s k y ) I, p. 259.
The signs of the Zodiac have more than one meaning. From one point of view
they represent the different stages of evolution up to the time the present material
universe with the five elements came into phenomenal existence. As the author
of Isis Unveiled has stated in the second volume of her admirable work, “ the
key should he turned seven times *
* to understand the whole philosophy under­
lying these signs.
“ The Twelve Signs of the Zodiac ” — Five Years of Theosophy (T. S u b e a Row).
I
T is an egregious folly to suppose that Occultism can be
taught in lessons as one would teach a language or a science ;
and the question arises : How, then, since these meetings
are for the purpose of studying together some of the noble
doctrines of Occultism— how is it that to the outsider, at least,
they might seem to be taught in that manner, by lessons in
courses ? The difference is this : While Occultism cannot be
taught as one would teach a language, for instance, nevertheless,
obviously and of necessity, there must be some means and method
by which the great sages of olden days communicated from time
to time appropriate parts of the Esoteric Knowledge to the world ;
and this is done by teaching and elucidating certain doctrinal
principles thereof, these principles actually being some of the
basic facts of the Kosmos. You cannot teach Occultism as you
would teach a language, for the reason that the facts of Being of
the Kosmos, of inner and of outer Nature, are so interlocked that
unless one had a thousand tongues, speaking a thousand idioms at
the same time, and the hearers were capable of appreciating these
thousand idioms at the same instant, could you convey the ideas,
the thoughts, simultaneously into the minds of the hearers. This
may illustrate, if poorly, why you cannot teach Occultism as you
can teach a language, or a mere physical science, or some other
ordinary system of exoteric study, such as our Universities do
481
482 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
teach ; for these latter studies or sciences or arts are very simple,
dealing with one main line of thought alone.
But the great Sages of ancient times laid down certain principles
of thought and of study which, they tell us, are, or rather
represent, the fundamental operations and characteristic natures
of the Universe; and not one of those mighty minds ever
attempted, because it is de facto impossible, to teach of these
operations and natures as one would teach a language or a mere
physical science ; but by hint, by allusion, by an appeal Jo the
intuition and the innate knowledge of his hearers, and by proper
physical illustration, such a Teacher leads them on, step by step ;
until finally the man or the woman, the hearer himself or herself,
sees as in a flash, the meaning conveyed as a Key, and grasps the
key, and himself or herself applies that key, with greater or less
success, depending on the hearer’s own spiritual insight. In that
way, therefore, are the doctrines of Occultism communicated
in the first four stages of initiation, as we have pointed out in
other previous studies.
You may take, for instance, the teaching regarding the
beginnings of Kosmic Evolution. We realize from this study
that there are seven different Principles of and in which the
Kosmos is builded; which work, each one of the seven, on its
own Plane— or rather in its own World; and to attempt to
describe at the same instant of time the simultaneous operations
of these seven Principle-Elements is physically impossible. But
a hint is given, an allusion is made to some one or more fact of
Universal Nature; and the mind of the hearer is opened by an
intuitional thought which is aroused in himself by the com­
munication. No child is taught to walk merely by seeing its
parents walk, but by itself learning to put leg before leg ; and its
first feeble and vacillating steps, in time, grow into the assured
and confident stride of the man.
So it is with these doctrines. Little by little, step by step, our
Teachers lead us on to understand, so that we in our turn become
teachers to and of ourselves, and are enabled boldly and success­
fully to apply as Keys the doctrines that we have heard to larger
doors of learning and Knowledge, leading into still more secret
chambers of our great Mother Nature. And these chambers are
full of wonders and mysteries, mystic and marvelous beyond all
comparison with things upon earth. I am thinking, as I speak,
of one of the real meanings of that wonderful inscription which
Plutarch tells us of in his treatise on Osiris and Isis, ch. IX—
Plutarch of Chseronea, the genial writer, the inimitable biographer,
the great-hearted man, initiate, quondam priest of Delphi, of
the famous Oracle there. One of his most mystic writings it is,
and one of the most difficult to understand, so carefully does he
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 483
veil his real meaning. He says that this inscription, presumably
engraved over the portico of the great Temple of Neith, at Sais in
the Delta of Egypt, ran as follows : “ Isis am I, I am all that was,
that is, and that shall be, and no one of mortals has ever lifted
my veil And Proclus, the Neo-platonic philosopher, in the
course of his commentary on the T im c e u s of Plato, remarks
incidentally as follows with regard to this inscription, that its
ending was : and the fruit that I brought forth became the
Sun ”4 Neith is the mystic or occult side of Isis ; Isis represented
the open side, the obvious or plain side, of the hid goddess Neith.
This veil was the universal Nature around us, hiding the mysteries
and operations of the great Kosmic Life. And to this day, no
one of mortals, however great, has ever succeeded in raising that
veil utterly. But little by little as the aeons of time flow by, our
greatest Seers, our Masters, and the Masters of our Masters, who
also in their spheres of thought and action, advance even as we
advance, check and prove and try the Knowledge communicated
by the gods our ancestors to the early races of mankind ; prove
the truths of Being again, modify them in form for presentation
to a later age; and in that sense send forth anew to the world,
from time to time, some and more of the doctrines of Reality.
Their work is a very difficult one. There is nothing that men
resent so much, nothing that so greatly arouses their ire and their
hatred, as to have their cherished beliefs disturbed. Consider
how all the World-Teachers have been received, in whatever
age. Look at the great-hearted Socrates who, though not ini­
tiated, betrayed parts of the Mysteries to the public ear, from his
own intuitional insight— a serious crime in those days. Look at
the legends concerning Jesuslegends only, nevertheless
representing certain mystic truths ; look at Pythagoras ; yea,
look at every one of those great Souls who have attempted to
enlighten mankind throughout the different ages— every one of
them was persecuted and misunderstood, though every one of
them was giving his life-work, his very soul, in order to help his
fellows ; every one of them was hated ; and, in later ages, every
one of them, though more or less understood or misunderstood
and wronged, was almost— and in one or two cases quite—
deified ! So has it been today, in our own age.
We enter upon our study tonight by reading again the same
extract from Volume I of The Secret Doctrine that we read at
our meeting last week, from page 158 :
Everything in the metaphysical as in the physical Universe is
septenary. Hence every sidereal body, every planet, whether visible
or invisible, is credited with six companion globes. The evolution of
life proceeds on these seven globes or bodies from the 1st to the 7th in
Seven R o u n d s or Seven Cycles.
484 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
You will remember that we passed briefly in review the four
aspects of the wonderful Doctrine of the Spheres ; and we merely
approached another doctrine still more wonderful, the Doctrine
of the Circulations of the Kosmos ; and we closed our study for
that evening at the point where we saw that each globe of the
Lunar Chain of the sevenfold Moon that was— each one of those
globes— had perfected its respective series of ten stocks or families
and had projected them into a laya-center, one for each globe,
in order that these respective ten families or stocks might have
their long pralayic rest; and then that when, after the course
of cyclic aeons, the thrill of waking life returned again to these
sleeping hosts, differentiation set in in these laya-centers, as the
Life-Waves advanced downwards towards them through the
various planes of superior matter, quickening and enlivening each
plane, one after the other, as the Life-Waves went lower and
lower down. Remember that “ lower ” here does not refer to
movement in space alone, but much more to quality; the Life-
Waves were descending into grosser and still grosser planes of
matter.
Now the first of the sleeping hosts that felt the inflow of the
Life-Forces as these reached it, coming from the higher spheres,
was that aggregate which was to form Globe A of the Earth-
Chain.
o o
® « ©
® 0
© 0 ®
Here, if you please, are twelve globes, representing the Planetary
Chain of our Earth, or, inferentially, the Planetary Chain of any
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 485
one of the scores of Planetary Chains in our Universal Solar
System. The uppermost five, as shown in the diagram, we shall
say very little of. They are super-spiritual worlds. The lower
seven are the worlds in manifestation, and it is these lower seven
that form the main subject of H. P. Blavatsky’s outline of the
Planetary Chains as given by her in The Secret Doctrine ; and it
is to these seven that we shall restrict very largely our remarks.
We will mark the first Globe, A ; the second Globe, B ; the third
Globe, C ; the fourth Globe, D ; the fifth Globe, E ; the sixth
Globe, F ; and the seventh Globe, G.
Now these globes of the Earth-Chain are not yet— as at this
point of our study— in existence; but that particular series of
ten stocks or families, which hitherto has been sleeping— a sleeping
sphere coming over from the Moon that was— Globe A of the
Moon that was, when it feels the thrill of incoming life, begins to
develop into Globe A of the Earth-Chain. This incoming life on
each sleeping but now re-awaking globe, in the course of the latter’s
progress to full formation, passes down from the spiritual of its
plane to the material of its plane, through seven stages or steps
or spaces of evolutionary development. As does Globe A of the
Earth-Chain, so do Globes B, C, D, E, F, and G ; and each in
turn ; but by a peculiar procedure which we are now going to
study.
Now of these ten families, we shall go not much farther with
regard to the three highest, than a mere allusion to them ; and
restrict our remarks to the seven manifest stocks or families
which form the volumes of the Life-Waves circling around the
seven globes in what are called the Chain-Rounds, as we saw at our
last study; a Chain-Round being a passage of the seven Life-
Waves through the seven globes, once, from Globe A to Globe G :
and a Globe-Round, as said before, being the passage of these seven
Life-Waves through any one globe— the traversing of any one
globe by those seven Life-Waves— during the course of their
Chain-Round. These Rounds are the Inner Rounds. As regards
the Outer Rounds, we ^hall make but little more than an allusion
to them at present, and for a very obvious reason. If to some of
us— for we are all in the same state in this respect— it is difficult
enough to understand even the Inner Rounds— the passages of the
Life-Waves around the seven globes of our own Earth-Chain—
it would be impracticable, unwise really, at the present time, to
overload our minds with the teachings regarding the Outer
Rounds, which you will remember we stated as being the passages
of the Life-Waves from, through, and into, in other larger Rounds,
the Seven Sacred Planets of the ancients.
Before continuing, I would like to make a little digression, in
order to avoid a later possible misunderstanding. You know
486 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
that there is a great deal written and taught in the world about
Astrology, and various so-called astrological teachers print
pamphlets and books, and will cast and read your horoscope as
best they can. Occasionally, by a lucky hit, a happy guess,
guided more or less by the tattered fragments of Ancient Know­
ledge that have come down to us in the books of the ancient
peoples, they may tell you something that is true, but how often
with the best of goodwill do they mistake. The Astrology of the
ancients was indeed a great and noble science. Modern Astrology
is but the tattered and rejected outer coating of real ancient
Astrology, for that truly sublime Science was the doctrine of the
Origin, of the Nature and of the Being, and of the Destiny, of the
Solar Bodies, of the Planetary Bodies, and of the beings who
dwell on them. This wonderful Science was founded on two
doctrines mainly, i.e., those two which we have been studying
together for the last two or three evenings: the Doctrine of the
Spheres, and the Doctrine of the Circulations of the Kosmos,
the latter being microcosmically the Doctrine of the Circulations
of the Universal Solar System. And the so-called astrology that
has come down to us and is with us today, is but a series of sadly
incomplete and mutilated fragments of teachings misunderstood
by the later Greeks and Romans themselves. Please understand
this clearly, because there actually is a vast and noble Science
which was in the ancient times called Astrology, a term which
means the “ Science of the Celestial Bodies ". So great and so
noble was it that it was held strictly as a Mystery-Teaching. It
was always against the law of the Mysteries to tell to the outward
world any of these Mystery-Teachings— any such divulging of the
secret doctrines being held to be a grave crime, and in the later
times, was even punished by the State with death. The ancient
nations themselves, the later Greeks and Romans, for instance,
forbade the public practice and teaching of astrology, from reasons
of sound public policy, because they knew that it could not be
taught or practised honestly in public as a means of private gain.
They even went so far in the Roman Empire as to forbid its
practice under penalty of banishment or death. Time and again,
the Mediterranean nations issued the most drastic laws against
it, and against what the Romans commonly called the “ Chal-
daeans ” or “ astrologers ” , because of the much mischief which
arose from i t ; the misleading and unsettling of the minds of the
ignorant and thoughtless aroused the legislatures of those times,
and they took legislative action in an attempt to curb the growing
evil. Nevertheless real astrology is a very profound truth, for
there actually is a bond of closest union, a strict and perfect
correspondence between all the parts of Being : all the parts of
Being forming the one vast Organism through which circulates
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 487
w
U
J
Q
C
<
Q
l
cc
uj
U
2
<
o
c
o
o
Z
c
<
0
o
ui
o
Q
,
o
c
o
u
<
0
3
a:
CD
<
n
CAPRICORN
488 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
and flows one Universal Life ; this Life follows certain channels,
and collects in certain Centers, and these channels and Centers
are infilled with spiritual and intellectual energies, and with
what we would call today electric and magnetic forces ; they
function more particularly in the Centers, certain sojar systemic
ganglions, which we call the planets, and herein lies the secret
of the circulations which we have been speaking of, the secret
of the gravitational pull which draws the Life-Atoms of the
Kosmos here and not there, or vice versa. These life-atoms we
must briefly speak of before we close tonight, if our time permits.
We shall now point out a few correspondences between the
twelve globes of our Planetary Chain and the planets, and also
between these and those and the twelve constellations of the Zodiac.
There is a strict and close correspondence between each of the
seven Sacred Planets and one of the globes of our Earth-Chain,
respectively ; and between each one of the globes and one of
the constellations of the Zodiac— one of the Houses of the Circle
of Life, as the Greeks called it. But while it is true that the Seven
Sacred Planets of the ancients, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, the Sun
(as a substitute for a secret planet), Venus, Mercury, and the
Moon (as a substitute for another secret planet), do actually
build and oversee our Planetary Chain as a whole (one of the
Sacred Planets respectively to one of the Globes), nevertheless
while the influences of the other six of the Seven Sacred Planets
are at work therein also, yet the one predominating power over
each globe comes from its especial sacred Planet. Likewise,
while each one of these twelve globes of the Planetary Chain is
under the particular oversight, or overseeing, of one of the con­
stellations of the Zodiac, that is to say of the predominating
Genius or Rector of that constellation of the Zodiac, nevertheless
each one of the other eleven constellations is also at work in each
of the twelve globes of the Chain. There can be no separation of
forces, for everything works together in Nature towards a common
end— which is one of the noblest proofs we have of our doctrine
of Universal Brotherhood. <
.
Now let us begin with Globe A of the manifest seven. Globe A
is under the oversight of the Sun (that is as a substitute) and its
zodiacal House is Leo. Globe B under Jupiter, zodiacal House
Sagittarius. Globe C, Venus, zodiacal House Libra. Globe D,
our Earth, Saturn, zodiacal House Capricorn. Globe E, Mercury,
zodiacal House Virgo. Globe F, Mars, zodiacal House Scorpio.
Globe G, Moon (as a substitute for a secret Planet), zodiacal
House Cancer.
Now going to the five super-archetypal globes, let us take the
one at the top, the first (or last), of which, by the way, our poor,
material Earth is the copy in matter. Planet Saturn, zodiacal
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 489
House Aquarius. Please note that this is the constellation called
the Waterman. Continuing to the left, the globe below: the
Planet is Venus, zodiacal House Taurus. The one below that on
the descending arc is under Jupiter, the zodiacal House is Pisces.
Crossing alofcg and taking the globe on the same plane as the last
mentioned, but on the ascending Arc, the Planet is Mars, and the
zodiacal House is Aries. The one above it and next to the last
(or first) ; the Planet is Mercury, and the zodiacal House is
Gemini.
If it were possible to do so in the short time we have, and if it
were permitted, we could go into wonderlands of study in follow­
ing out the various relations of the globes of our Chain and of the
planets and of the Houses of the Zodiac, and concerning the beings
dwelling on these globes and planets, and concerning the circu­
lations of the Life-Waves; and perhaps in future time our
Teacher may instruct us so to do. Let me recall to your mind,
before leaving this small detail of our study, a statement made by
H. P. Blavatsky in The Secret Doctrine, where she says that “ if
we might, if we could, only follow the adventures of an atom ” ,
— I am quoting in substance— “ no romance that has ever
been written or imagined, could equal this theme for mystic
wonder, and for the profundity of its appeal to the spiritual
nature of our soul.”
We are now going to pass, if you please, to a much later stage
in planetary evolution, possibly returning later to the point
where we are now. We have now arrived at the point where we
must find out how Globe A of the Earth-Chain, in thefirst Round,
is builded. These ten families,— three of them we will leave
without further mention at present— or rather these seven mani­
fest families or stocks of the inflowing Life-Waves, these seven
Life-Waves, are the seven which left the corresponding globe A
of the Moon at its death, and were its ten or seven principles.
They are now re-entering into manifestation after their long
pralayic rest, clothing^themselves with sheaths, or veils, of super-
sensuous matter as they descend through the three super-arche­
typal spheres above the manifest four Kosmic planes, on the
Downward Arc, until aeons upon aeons later, when they have
reached this Plane, the fourth Kosmic Plane counting downwards,
of the seven Kosmic Planes, on which fourth Plane of the Kosmos
the forthcoming Globe A of an Earth Planetary Chain is to be,
they are ready to begin its formation. And how do they proceed ?
First come the three Kingdoms of the Elemental World. The
first Kingdom builds, running the gamut of its seven degrees or
stages ; and when its work is finished, it goes into obscuration ;
seven minor steps of building does it build, seven degrees of work
has it to do, before its surplus of life can pass to a lower plane on
490 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
the Downward Arc, and begin to construct and build the founda­
tion of the succeeding Globe B to come.
When its seven stages of work are finished, the second Elemental
World then steps in instantly, and follows the same course of
seven stages. When its seven are finished, it also (passes in its
turn its surplus of life onwards, down to the foundation prepared
for it by the first Elemental (or preceding) Kingdon?, to Globe B
below. Then follows on Globe A the third Elemental Kingdom.
Then, when these three are thus finished, there begins to work on
Globe A the Mineral Kingdom, that is to say, the Mineral World
corresponding to Globe A ; and when its sevenfold work is
finished on the basis provided by the three Elemental Kingdoms,
there follows the sevenfold Life-Wave of the Vegetable Kingdom ;
and it runs through its seven cycles or stock-races. And when its
course is finished, its surplus life follows the stream of the already
descended entities into the Plane below, into Globe B, into the
work prepared for it by its predecessors.
Then comes the Animal Kingdom into Globe A. Remember,
I am speaking of the first Round only, so far. When the first
Round is finished, and the second Round begins after the inter-
global pralaya between Globe G and Globe A, the method of
procedure is changed. We are now discussing the First Round
only. When the Animal Kingdom has run through its seven
Stock-Races (or Root-Races) on Globe A, then comes the seventh
and last Stock-Family or Kingdom, or the Human, on Globe A
of our Chain.
Now to go back a little. Take the first Elemental Kingdom on
Globe A. It is finishing its seventh Root-Race, its seventh Stock-
Race, its seventh cycle, its seventh Ring as Mr. Sinnett called i t ;
and when it has finished this, its Life-Wave then passes on com­
pletely to Globe B, where its six preceding Stock-Races had
already gone when they had finished their respective cycles.
And what is left behind ? Do all the hosts of lives of that first
Elemental Kingdom go there ? Do they all pass down to Globe
B ? Please note this detail, for it is very, very important for our
future studies. They do not; that first Elemental Kingdom
leaves behind it on Globe A the “ remainders ” , the ¿ishtas— a
Sanskrit word meaning “ remainders ” . This word itself contains
a whole doctrine of wonder ; and just here is illustrated one of
our difficulties in lecturing. Every step that we make forwards,
opens to view a new avenue, opens a new door, till we are fairly
bewildered with the wonder of it all; and we must hold by sheer
force of will to our main theme of thought lest we be drawn off into
other paths. And this is one of the ways by which our Teachers
are enabled to disguise our teachings and hide them from those
not entitled to them, as remarked before. They cannot tell all,
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 491
not even of a single doctrine, for the reason that it simply wouldn’t
be understood. They tell us as much as they may and can, and
give hints and allusions to something else ; and this method very
conveniently thus acts as a “ blind Hence, sometimes ignorant
people say, Why, this doctrine is contradictory ! ” It is not.
Paradoxical, yes ; contradictory, no.
Now what are the éishtas of the first Elemental Kingdom or
World that remain on Globe A after that Life-Wave has passed
on to form the foundation of Globe B ? And what are the éishtas
of the second Elemental World when its Life-Wave has passed
down to Globe B and its éishtas remain behind on Globe A ;
and similarly with the third Elemental world, and all the other
four Kingdoms ? We will describe what it is by an illustration
drawn from our own present Mineral Kingdom on this Earth. Com­
rades, the minerals we now have on our Earth, today, are the
Mineral Kingdom of our Globe D in obscuration here, that is to
say they are the remainders or the éishtas of our Mineral Kingdom
which has passed on forwards to the globes on the Upward Arc,
preparing those globes for our future coming, when we come in
our turn on leaving this Globe D or Earth. Not that they alone
work for us, for we work for them too ; each Kingdom works for
each other Kingdom ; and all work for all. But the real bulk or
volume of the Mineral Kingdom has gone on ; and it has left
its éishtas behind on this globe Earth, its “ sleeping spheres ” ,
its “ sleeping atoms ” . And so when all the Kingdoms of Globe A
have passed on, each one leaves behind its éishtas, its remainders,
its lives representing the very highest point of evolution arrived
at by that Kingdom in that Round, sleeping ; sleeping life-atoms ;
dormant, relatively motionless. Not without life however ; for
everything is alive ; there is no dead matter anywhere. Is a
man dead who is asleep ? No ; but sleeping, dormant, resting.
These éishtas of all the seven Kingdoms thus await the incoming
of the Life-Waves on the next Round, and then they re-awaken
to a new cycle of activity.
You know doubtless a beautiful old fairy-story, given to us
from the French, who got it from the Persians, and the Persians
received it from the Hindûs ; I think that the English version is
called " Prince Charming ” , or " The Sleeping Beauty ” . The
French title of it is “ La Belle au Bois Dormant ” , “ The Beauty in
the Sleeping— Enchanted— Wood ” . Remember the beautiful
old tale : the wondrous castle, the enchanted wood, in both of
which everything and all is sleeping ; even the princess, the
castle’s châtelaine, is sleeping, waiting, enwrapped in dreamless
sleep ; and by and by comes along Prince Charming, who sees
this enchanted wood and he enters into it. He is a knight-errant,
out to achieve deeds of noble doing. He enters this enchanted
492 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
castle and he sees the Sleeping Beauty, and he bends down and
he kisses her forehead ; and instantly everything awakens, every­
thing is restored to consciousness, and is set in motion and move­
ment. Thus, verily, is it with the incoming of the Life-Waves.
When the incoming Life-Waves strike or rather re-enter into the
dormant Life-Atoms, they awaken ; things are restored to indi­
vidual activity. Thus, each one of these seven sphere-globes of
our Chain, when it is in what we call obscuration, is a sleeping
sphere, a dormant sphere— full of general life, indeed, as is a
sleeping man ; but individualized activity is dormant. '
Let me say in passing, lest there be a future misunderstanding,
that not one of the globes, when in obscuration, remains dormant
for the full period of a Chain-Round. That is to say, when its
seven Stocks or Families have left Globe A and passed on forwards
to the succeeding globes, it— Globe A— does not remain dormant
throughout the complete duration of the remaining six-sevenths
of the Manvantara of that Round until, after the inter-planetary
Nirvana, the Life-Waves re-enter it again. But when a certain
period of time has passed, it re-awakens and receives another
succeeding Life-Wave. Difficult indeed it is to understand the
interworking even of the Inner Rounds, to say nothing of the
Outer Rounds. And these different Life-Waves, Comrades,
are the seven Life-Waves passing around the Chain, not all
together, and not all during the period of one Globe-Round, but
some of these Life-Waves precede others, because they are more
evolved, and run the race more quickly. Hence it is that we have
among us what H. P. Blavatsky and our Masters call Fifth-
Rounders and even, very, very rarely, Sixth-Rounders. Now there
again is another one of the many subjects which we must refer
for study to future meetings.
So, then, each one of these seven Kingdoms, during a Globe-
Round, after the expiration of its seven Root-Races or Stock-
Races, passes its surplus of life to the globe next following in
order, around the Chain, and itself— its Remainders— goes into
dormancy or obscuration with the globe that it leaves as a Life-
Wave.
We leave our study tonight at this point to be taken up again
at our next meeting.
But I would like to add a few general words about the Life-
Atoms before closing. What do we mean when we speak of Life-
Atoms ? We do not mean, the Teachers do not mean, that they
are only and merely the atoms of Pr&na, for they are only one
small part of the vast hosts of the Life-Atoms. The Life-Atoms
in general mean the Atoms of Life, of the Universal Life forming
our Planetary Chain. Hence, the expression “ Life-Atoms ” is a
short and convenient way of saying the building-blocks of the
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 493
Universe, the bricks, so to say, of the vital Kosmos. So many
men on Earth, so many gods in heaven. So many monads in
heaven, so many life-atoms on Earth, or elsewhere. So many
atoms on Earth, so many equivalent god-sparks in heaven.
Gods, Monads, Atoms: You remember the chapter that H. P.
Blavatsky h\s so prefaced in The Secret Doctrine, thus showing
the three general classes or degrees of manifested Life: thehighest,
the Inner God; the Monad, its vehicle, which is man in his
essence ; and third, himself as a composite being formed of the
Life-Atoms which he himself has brought forth. The Life-Atoms,
then, are the vital building-bricks of the Kosmos. We mean also
in one sense that they are the Life-Atoms of the globe. The globe,
all globes, are the Life-Atoms of a still larger body. Remember,
too, that there are Life-Atoms on the physical plane ; Life-Atoms
on the astral plane; Life-Atoms on the mental plane; Life-
Atoms on the spiritual plane; Life-Atoms on every plane or
rather World ; and, as far as we know, so on forever. Further­
more, each one of these Life-Atoms, no matter on what plane it
may be, is an embryo-soul, growing, evolving, with a sublime
destiny before it. Even we are the Life-Atoms of our own Solar
Logos, its offspring or children verily, the children of our Highest,
of it, the Logos. And in aeons to come, if we run the race success­
fully as men, and then as Dhyan-Chohans, we, each one of us,
in the infinitudes of Matter-Space, shall be a Logos; and the
Life-Atoms which now compose our bodies and our vehicles, inner
and outer, and which are our offspring, our children, shall be in
those distant aeons the Dhyan-Chohans, the archangels, and the
angels, and the Prajapatis, and the Manus, and the human beings •
;
and all the hosts of the evolving lives now below us and behind
us in the grand evolutionary drama of Being, shall in their turn
also have advanced correspondingly far along the Paths of
Destiny.
Before we close this evening the Teacher has asked me to answer
the questions : “ What proof can you bring to the average man
or woman of the truth pf these sublime teachings ? ” “ What are
the foundations of the teachings of the Esoteric Philosophy ? ”
The answer to the first question is this: We can bring proof,
cumulative proof ; and you will remember what we have pointed
out before as being proof. Proof is the bringing of conviction to
the mind; and this conviction is brought by a preponderance of
evidence. If you can make the mind of a man to believe that what
you say is true ; if you can convince him by reason and evidence ;
you have proved your point, not merely in a court of law, because
that is the way the lawyers look at it, but in actual fact.
Now if we choose to embark upon fine-spun disquisitions of
philosophy as to what Theosophy is and what Truth is and what
494 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Truth is not founded upon, that may be a different thing, and
require somewhat different treatment. But for the average man
or woman, who asks a question such as the Teacher says is
frequently asked, we bring proof to him or her ; we convince him
or her that what we say is true. And if asked a further question,
“ On what foundation do you bring that proof ? f we say, on
two foundations, mutually supporting. First, on the innate
faculties in the human Soul which tell a man that such or another
thing is true; he then is satisfied spiritually, intellectually,
emotionally. To him it is proved. That is one proof. The other
one is perhaps not so strong per se, but to the average man it is
perhaps stronger. We can show that the greatest minds of all
ages have believed as we believe. They did not use the same
words or technical phrases perhaps, did not teach the doctrines
in the same form perhaps, but the heart of it all none the less was
there, the real thing was there, the core of it. You will find all
this in the world’s literatures; and the only difficulty that it
seems to me could be encountered— and I merely make this
remark out of prudence— is this: that only too often, as our
Brother----- remarked the other evening, the ancient literatures
are not understood, even by those who translate them and read
them. More : very often they are not honestly studied ; yet
this fact does remain, that those who have honestly studied them,
know that they support our teachings. Perhaps to the average
inquirer the greatest and most convincing thing of all is the fact
that the finest minds of all times have believed in our Theosophical
doctrines; and it is to them— to these great intellects— that we
refer, as to an ultimate Court of Appeal; much as ordinary
human beings refer disputed questions for solution to the noblest
minds that they have among themselves, feeling sure that the
questions will be solved in the best way in which good and able
men can solve them. I repeat, that we bring proof. But, of
course, the inquirer, if honest, must do his own thinking; that
we cannot do for him.
The foundations of the esoteric teachings, for the average
person— not for us, but for the average person— rest on exactly
the same basis of demonstration that the former question does.
If you find that back of the teachings which have come down
to us from immemorial times, there are certain facts, certain
doctrines, which are the same all over the world, and in all ages,
which were not outwardly, not openly expressed, but were kept
hid, it is logically necessary to assume that they were looked upon
as esoteric, otherwise why hide them ? These being the same in
substance everywhere, we ask the reason, Why are they the same ?
The natural— and correct— inference is that they were drawn
from the same common source, which, now an inference, grows
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 495
into full conviction as we study them. Really, their best proof is
in themselves!
The only way to convince a man finally of the truth of any­
thing is to carry it “ home ” to him— so present it to his faculties
that they instinctively give assent. We say “ Here is our proof,
here is the evidence. Yet I cannot form your mind for you, or do
your thinking for you. You must do all this yourself, and draw
your own conclusions therefrom. We say that these doctrines are
thus,tand so are the facts. We prove it by evidence. Take the
evidence and digest it. Make of it all your own intellectual feast.
If you are normally human, you will be satisfied.”
Of course you will understand that these are answers to
questions asked by outsiders. If the Teacher had asked me that
question to be answered for ourselves, I would have spoken
differently; but to the ordinary outside person I suppose it
would be the answer that he would want. As to those in our own
Groups who want proofs, the same answer is still largely applicable.
Other things, of course, could be said to students who are
" newly born ” into our Group, on other lines.
CHAPTER XLV
PHYSIOLOGY, PSYCHOLOGY, AND PNEUMATOLOGY OF THE
UNIVERSE. TEN AND TWELVE PLANES OF THE UNIVERSAL
SOLAR SYSTEM : INTERMEDIATE CRITICAL PLANES. ALL
MANIFESTED BEING A GRADED CONTINUUM OF INTERRELATED,
INTERLOCKED HIERARCHIES : EACH WITH ITS OWN BEGINNING
AND END. ¿ISHTAS AND THE “ SURPLUS OF LIFE
" The Sun is the heart of the Solar World (System) and its brain is hidden behind
the (visible) Sun. From thence, sensation is radiated into every nerve-center of the
great body, and the waves of the life-essence flow into each artery and vein. . . .
The planets are its limbs and pulses. . . . " (Commentary.)
« • * • • •
Thus, there is a regular circulation of the vital fluid throughout our system,
of which the Sun is the heart— the same as the circulation of the blood in the
human body— during the manvantaric solar period, or life ; the Sun contracting
as rhythmically, at every return of it, as the human heart does. Only, instead
of performing the round in a second or so, it takes the solar blood ten of its
years, and a whole year to pass through its auricles and ventricles before it washes
the lungs and passes thence to the great veins and arteries of the system.
. . . The universe (our world in this case) breathes, just as man and every
living creature, plant, and even mineral does upon the earth; and as our globe
itself breathes every twenty-four hours.
The Secret Doctrine (H. P. Blavatsky), I, p. 541.
Space is the real world, while our world is an artificial one. It is the One
Unity throughout its infinitude : in its bottomless depths as on its illusive
surface; a surface studded with countless phenomenal Universes, systems and
mirage-like worlds. Nevertheless, to the Eastern Occultist, who is an objective
Idealist at the bottom, in the real world, which is a Unity of Forces, there is " a
connection of all matter in the p le n u m as Leibnitz would say. This is sym­
bolized in the Pythagorean Triangle.
Ibid. I, p. 615.
Intelligences are without beginning.
The Sphere hath an active Soul.
The heavens have neither rent nor seam.
The Desdtir : The Book of Shet Sasan the First— vv. 16, 17, 20.
The heavy-moving stars are many, and each has an Intelligence, a Soul,
and a Body.
And in like manner every distinct division of the heavens and planets, hath its
Intelligences and Souls.
Ibid., The Book of the Prophet, the Great Abad— w . 23, 24.
(Mulla Firuz Bin Kaus, trans.)
T
HE Physiology of the Universe which we have been
studying during the last few meetings should be under­
stood in its relation to the Psychology of the Universe;
and, at the same time, we should remember that
beyond the psychological aspect of the Kosmic Life there is
the Pneumatology of the Universe; these giving rise in their
496
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 497
respective fields to the three essential Vehicles through which, and
in which, from which, and back to which, the Universal Life
plays and flows and is, the three thus being the Fountainheads of
and therefore corresponding in man to his three general divisions
of Body, Sl»ul, and Spirit. The Physiology of the Universe
comprises thfe totality of all the imbodied or envehicled entities
thereof; and the Psychology of the Universe comprises the
various Hierarchies of spiritual beings which work in those hosts
of bodies ; and the Pneumatology of the Universe comprises all
those Divine Beings standing behind, ruling and inspiring, the
Intermediate Classes. Now the doctrines with regard to this
third and last division are extremely difficult, as we all know, and
hitherto we have had occasion merely to allude to them. Our
studies, so far, have comprised only an attempt to understand
something of the Psychology and of the Physiology of the Spaces
of Kosmos.
Now one— and perhaps one of the greatest— of the functions or
operations of Universal Nature, is that which is expressed by our
word “ Evolution ” ; and we use it in strictly the etymological
sense, meaning the unfolding or the unrolling, or the rolling
outwards, of what is, or has been, impacted in the original seed or
root. We do not use the word “ Evolution ” as that word is
misused in modern biological science. In fact, biologists do not
teach Evolution ; they teach what the French very correctly call
Transformisme ; and the difference between the two senses is
immense. As, at a later date, we shall go into this study more in
detail, we desire at present to call attention to this great difference
of meaning merely in order to avoid a misunderstanding, that in
using the words Evolution or Development as these are used in
Occultism, we use them in the sense used by modern biologists.
Not at all. We employ the word “ Evolution ” strictly in the
etymological sense— the unfolding, the unrolling, the outgoing,
of the forces lying latent, from its past Karman, in the seed of the
being or entity, or whatever it may be, which enters upon a cycle
of active existence. »
This great principle was well illustrated in the case of Kosmic
Evolution by what the ancient Stoics taught with regard to the
evolving or development or evolution, the rolling out, of the four
(or five) Elements of the ancients, as those Elements were under­
stood in their day. They taught, as you remember we pointed
out at a former study, that the Fifth Element, the Fifth Essence
or Quintessence, called " dither "— which is our Akaia— held in
its bosom before their manifestation or evolving the seeds of the
lower four ; and that when the time came for these four to evolve,
when the Deity, when Zeus, wished to send forth the worlds again
into manifestation after a period of repose, the first that appeared
498 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
was the Element Fire, rolling out from ¿Ether (or Aka£a)
evolving, unwrapping itself, from it. Not " Fire ” as we under­
stand it, but, as it were, the Seed of Fire, the Spirit of Fire, that
primary and elemental kosmic force of which Fire on our plane,
this low plane, is a feeble manifestation. Then, when Fire had
run through its course of cyclic evolution : in the satme way that
it had proceeded forth from the bosom of ¿Ether or Akaia, so did
Air from Fire, unrolling itself from the bosom of Fire which had
contained in itself this Element A ir; containing not merely its
own swabhdva, or characteristic or quality of fieriness, as we say
in our Oriental thought; but containing in itself also the
characteristic of its own Parent ¿Ether, Akaia. Then, next in
sequence, from Air rolled forth, was unwrapped, sprang forth in
development, the Element Water. Not our water, which is
absurd; but that which we might call the Seed of Water, the
Spirit of Water, that which Water or Liquidity represents on our
plane; and it held in its bosom somewhat of the quality or
characteristic of Air, its Parent; and of Fire, its Grandparent;
and also of ¿Ether or Akaia. It contained also the Forces, the
Potencies, and the Powers, of these its Predecessors, but feebler
naturally in Water than in their own respective realms ; the
qualities and potencies of each preceding one growing feebler as
the evolution proceeds farther on, i.e., more largely into “ matter” .
Then from Water, from its bosom, evolved or rolled forth the
Seed of the Element Earth. When the turn of the cycle set in ;
when the evolution of these Elements, when the building of
globes and so forth, had come to an end, and Zeus wished to
recall them all back to his bosom, then, the reverse procedure
began, and Water took unto itself again its child the Element
Earth. Earth began to liquesce and to pass back into the Element
Water. Then in its turn, in its due period, the Element Water
began to aerify its particles and to pass into, or was gathered
again into, the bosom of its parent the Element Air. Then air in
its turn began to ignify its nature and to pass into the bosom of
its parent Fire. Then, finally, Fire aetherialized its nature and
passed back into the bosom of the Fifth Essence or ¿Ether, its
parent; and the cycle of Kosmic Evolution was ended for
another period of repose.
Now we carry these five Elements farther on at least to seven
in number. But there is the principle of development inherent
in the Kosmos which we illustrate by using the word Evolution
as above outlined: the Outgoing of the Breath, the breathing
forth, of Brahma, as the archaic Indian thinkers said. The work
done, then ensued the Inbreathing, the Ingathering, the Involu­
tion, of Brahma. Precisely the same illustration that we have
just given from the Stoic philosophy you will find in the ancient
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 499
Hindi! literature, in the Upanishads, and more particularly in the
Puranas.
Just so, after the same manner, with due changes made for
circumstances and entities, are the globes of our Planetary Chain
evolved. (?lobe A runs through its life-cycle, and then evolves
Globe B, w&uch in turn runs its life-cycle, and then evolves
Globe C, which runs through its life-cycle and evolves Globe D, or
our Globe Earth. Globe D runs through its life-cycle and evolves
Glofye E ; and then are evolved Globe F and then Globe G, the
last of the manifested seven, in the same manner. These globe-
evolutions are the subject which we are now studying.
The Teacher's permission to have questions asked and answered
has been exceedingly helpful to the present speaker. It has shown
him, for instance, that not enough has been said about the Planes
of Kosmos and the Principles of Kosmos, and about the various
ways and forces by which these twelve globes of our Planetary
Chain are interrelated. Let us then illustrate these in the
following diagram :
Here we have the seven Kosmic Planes represented by straight
lines, and above them is shown a triangle, which will represent,
if you please, the Pneumatological or Divine or Superspiritual
three Planes about which it is needless now to speak, because even
if anything were said about them it is very doubtful that it would
500 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
be of assistance to us at the present time. The teachings with
regard to them are too abstract. Below the triangle, follow the
three higher Planes of the Kosmic Manifest Seven, containing the
five hid globes of our Planetary Chain ; then below these, follow
the four lower Planes of the Kosmic Manifest Seven, of the
Kosmos, please understand, containing our manifested seven
globes, or what H. P. Blavatsky in The Secret Doctrine usually
called the Planetary Chain of the Earth. We have numbered them
as in former studies, A, B, C, D, E, F, and G. Please remember,
in addition (a subject to which we shall later allude tonight, or
at a future study) that each one of these seven Kosmic Manifest
Planes or Worlds is itself a septenary, i.e., divided into seven
sub-planes or Worlds. This fact will come in as a very important
subject in our later studies.
Now you will notice that these twelve globes are on seven
planes. You will next notice that in the diagram only seven
Manifest Kosmic Planes, and a triangle representing three Divine
Planes, are given, which make ten. Now why do we not here
show twelve Kosmic Planes or Worlds ? We have drawn the
diagram in this way in order to call attention, by an apparent lack
of something, to a fact which we wish to emphasize. You may
remember the Latin poet, Martianus Capella, speaking of the Sun,
“ whose sacred head is encircled with twice six rays ” . Now these
twice six rays encircling the head of the Solar God, represent
the twice six powers or the twice six globes in the spiritual Sun.
Our visible physical Sun is but the body of the Sun. There are
seven manifest suns; actually there are ten and two polar
" Links ” . We see but one Sun, the lowest; that sun, as a matter
of fact, nonetheless being on our highest physical plane ; but, as
the story-teller says, “ that is again another story ” I
Now these twelve Forces of the sun represent and are the
twelve Forces of the Logos, who is the Manifest Solar God ; and,
naturally, being twelve forces they must have their own homes
to live in, their own spheres of appropriate action. They must
have the appropriate matters or substances in which to work. As
a matter of fact, they are themselves their own homes ! They build
their own houses with a part of themselves; even as a snail
builds its own shell; remaining notwithstanding apart; in it,
controlling it, each one to each, but yet not of i t ; as the Spirit
and the Soul of a man remain apart from his body, in it yet above
it, and in a true sense not of it.
These twelve Forces represent and are, therefore, the twelve
Planes of the Universal Solar System; yet there are but ten
planes in a Hierarchy. What about the extra two, the eleventh
and the twelfth ? Now here is the solution of the riddle. All
manifested Being is a continuum. You understand, I suppose.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 501
that philosophical word. It means that Universal Being extends
itself infinitely in all directions, most especially we say inwards
and outwards, without break of continuity, yet graded into
innumerable parts or steps or planes or worlds; and this
continuum lj, so to say, broken up into hierarchies manifesting
in seven, ten, or twelve divisions or parts. The lowest seven
parts are thp manifest portion of any hierarchy, that portion
which is builded below a certain plane of materiality, and these
seven are the rfipa-worlds or worlds of form ; and of these seven,
as a matter of fact, the three higher are relatively arfipa or
’'formless” — to us, to our cognition, please understand. The
truly arfipa or so-called “ formless ” or Divine Worlds are the
three highest above these manifest seven, thus making the ten
worlds or planes or degrees.
Now any hierarchy has of course its beginning and its end, its
zenith and its nadir, its acme and its ground, its highest and its
lowest, the first and the tenth counting downwards. But
what is it that connects this first and this tenth with the
other hierarchies, with the rest of the Continuum ? What is a
hierarchy ? It is an individualized entity. This entity is
composed, in its turn, of hosts and multitudes of smaller or
inferior entities ; as man’s body is an entity, and yet is composed
of hosts of cells ; and these cells again are entities, and in their
turn are composed of molecules and of atoms; and the atoms in
their turn are composite things; and yet they all live together,
and function together, every one of them common to a hierarchy,
within other hierarchies, and all interrelated and interlocking.
But each one of these hierarchies nevertheless has its own acme
or summit and its nether pole, its head and its foot, its beginning
and its end.
Now that which connects a hierarchy, let us say at the acme
or the beginning, with the rest of the Continuum, is an inter*
mediate or “ critical ” plane partaking of the nature both of the
hierarchy beneath and of the hierarchy above it in the Continuum,
of which, of course, it i$a part. With its foot, again, it is connected
on an extra or twelfth plane, another intermediate or " critical ”
plane, with the highest plane of the hierarchy which is beneath
it or follows it. Thus, then, we have a hierarchy consisting of ten,
always ten, degrees or stages or planes or forces : seven manifest,
and three hid or occult, or mystic— it matters not what word
you use here; and these ten principles or planes, forming a
hierarchy, are connected with the superior worlds and connected
with the inferior worlds by two extra or intermediate planes, one
below and one above, each to each.
Let us now take up our main study from the point where we
left it last week. A very interesting question was asked last week,
502 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
as to whether our Planetary Chain formed the seven principles of
the Earth. And the answer was : “ They do not, because each
one of the seven globes is itself a distinct and separate planet and
is itself a septenary ” . But the Planetary Chain forms a hier­
archy of globes. Please remember that " hierarch^ ” does not
mean any one particular thing. It means any possible collection
of entities to the number of ten, which form am
unity. You
remember how much emphasis we laid in a former study, upon the
differences between a One, a Monad, a Unity, and a Union. I£was
then emphasized in anticipation of questions on studies like our
present subject. If we have not these elementary ideas clear in
our minds, there is bound to be confusion. A Union is a more or
less fast or loose aggregate or assemblage of diverse entities.
A Unity, as we shall use it, is a Union in which the bonds are so
tight that it functions not as an assemblage, but as a single being,
as an individual. A hierarchy is a Unity. A Monad is the root
of a hierarchy, a pure and permanent individual, like the
characteristic life-center in a seed from which a tree springs. The
tree functions as a Unity, but if you take its individual leaves
and branches, and roots, and consider it as a mere assemblage,
it is only a Union. Considered as an entity, as a hierarchy of
less lives, smaller lives, it is a Unity ; and the spiritual center or
seed from which it springs, its indwelling characteristic swabhava,
its peculiar life-seed, is the Monad. And the One is that ultimate,
purest, simplest, form of Kosmic Being which we call Divine, and
of which the old theologians sang : " In which there is no shadow
of turning, there is no manifestation nor differences.0 It is Pure
Being, as contrasted with differentiated substance. It is the One,
in which are no opposites or no contrasts ; pure being, pure bliss,
pure consciousness— what the Hindu Upanishads call Sat— Chit—
Ananda ; Beness— Consciousness— Bliss.
Now, then, the Planetary Chain being a Unity or a Hierarchy,
functions as a single entity, and is a single entity ; it is coadunated,
because it is a U nity; it is formed into one thing. Why ?
Because it is endowed with a Soul and a Spirit flowing forth from
its generating Monad. In other words, its consciousness is
monadic.
Let us read from The Secret Doctrine, Volume I, page 166, an
extract as follows :
Hence it only stands to reason that the globes which overshadow
our Earth must be on different and superior planes. In short, as
Globes, they are in Co
-adunition but not In Consubstantiality
w
ith our Earth and thus pertain to quite another state of conscious­
ness.
Coadunition, or rather coadunation, the forming into a Unity,
does not mean that the entity so unated is a single (non-composite)
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 503
being in the ordinary popular sense; otherwise its component
parts would not be conjoined in a unation. It means that the
coadunated entity is a Unity or a Hierarchy in the same way that
man’s body is a Unity and a Hierarchy, if we consider that body
as the vehicle through which works the indwelling monadic soul
of the man,'governing and controlling the hosts of smaller lives
of which the^body is made.
Now we take up the method or process by which our manifest
seven globes of the Planetary Chain are evolved or “ born ” , let
us say. When the thrill of the incoming Life-Waves, consisting
of ten classes or stocks or families, after their long pralayic rest,
coming over from the Moon Globe A that was and now is not,
inaugurates the new Earth-manvantara, they begin to differ­
entiate on the plane of the Globe A of the Earth Planetary Chain
to be, and to gather into themselves magnetically or gravitation­
ally the hosts of life-atoms belonging to that plane and which
are hanging in space, and which have been transmigrating
during the long pralayic rest of the higher principles— trans­
migrating into other beings on that particular plane and out of
them. And here is the real meaning of the ancient doctrine of
transmigration : The Life-atoms which a man throws off during
life, and which his body at any moment consists of during his life,
and which are left behind him after his death, and while he
himself is resting in Devachan, transmigrate according to their
respective natures; pass into and inform the beasts, and the
vegetable world, and the mineral, and the elemental— the three
elemental worlds or kingdoms; and similarly those of his inter­
mediate principles. But when that man returns to incarnation,
passing through the various planes downward into physical
incarnation, he makes for himself, at first, garments of light
formed of his former life-atoms belonging to the higher planes,
that is, he gathers into himself again the same life-atoms that he
shed and cast off when he passed through those respective planes
on his way " upwards ” . And so on each plane on his way
downwards into incarnation. Similarly, when he reaches this
Earth, he gathers the life-atoms of this plane into himself again,
not merely by the magnetic pull unconsciously to himself active
during his ante-natal life, but even more so after his birth. And
so do these planets, the various globes of the various Planetary
Chains. The Life-Waves gather again to themselves, for each
Globe in turn, as they pass down and through the four lower
Planes of the Kosmos, the Life-Atoms that belonged respectively
to the former Moon-Globes on the four lower Planes, which Life-
Atoms help to build the new " physical ” globes or bodies of the
new Planetary Chain to be, which the incoming Life-Waves or the
seven Principles of each of the Globes of the Moon that was, form
504 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
and shape, and in which they are now to work in the new
Manvantara.
Now, what does each one of these Globes of our Planetary
Chain, or any other Chain, consist of ? It consists of these Life-
Atoms, plus the indwelling vital forces, the Life-Waves; and
together they actually construct the Globe, and art that Globe.
Man likewise builds his own body from within. There are secrets
even in nutrition that our scientists have not yet solved. Man
builds his own body out of himself, as often said before. He first
secretes, and then excretes his various vehicles on the different
planes of his being. He excretes his own body and bodies or
vehicles from the secretions that come from within himself. And
the Globes of our Chain are built in precisely the same way.
We have passed briefly under consideration, in other studies,
the three Elemental Kingdoms as regards their work in forming
Globe A of our Chain. Let us now return to that. The Elemental
Kingdom No. I has finished its work, let us say, on what is now
the first foundation of Globe A. That Globe, therefore, has begun
to take form. It is one-seventh (or one-tenth) formed, formed
to the extent of the range of the first Elemental Kingdom. That
first Elemental Kingdom has now passed through its seven periods
of work, of evolution, and then goes into “ obscuration ”— one
of Mr. Sinnett’s words. A far better word would have been
dormancy or sleep, because this word “ obscuration ” actually
rather obscures the sense. A man is not “ obscured " when he
sleeps. The body may be so, in a sense ; but it is better actually
to state in more appropriate words just what the real condition
is. It is that of sleep, or latency— of dormancy, rather.
But what happens now ? Instantly that Elemental Kingdom
No. i goes into dormancy, Elemental Kingdom No. 2 begins its
work on the foundation just laid for it by Elemental Kingdom
No. i. Meanwhile, the surplus of life of Elemental Kingdom
No. i passes on to Globe B, and lays there the first foundation of
Globe B as it did for Globe A. Now what do we mean by the
“ surplus of life ” , and what, furthermore,»is it that is left behind
as the Sishta or remainder, of the Elemental Kingdom No. I now
dormant on Globe A ? (Nevertheless, the active life of the Life-
Waves, a part of it, passes on and forms the beginning of Globe B.)
What is the “ surplus of life ” , then ? “ Surplus of life ” , as here
used, is that to which we alluded a few moments ago, when we
spoke of the unfolding or unrolling of the Elements, which, before
manifestation, are involved in each other. This surplus of life
contained or involved in the Elemental Kingdom No. I, on
Globe A, is the 42 principles of all the other six globes of the manifest
seven, as regards the first Elemental Kingdom, enwrapped,
enfolded, involved and dormant therein, so to say, and not yet
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 505
ready to manifest, because of not being appropriate and fit for
Globe A, and therefore spoken of as “ sleeping ", resting in the
bosom of Elemental Kingdom No. 1, but more truthfully over­
shadowing it and infilling it with life, with the 42 " Fires As
this " surplus of life ” is unfolded, or evolved, “ sleeping spheres ” ,
“ sleeping forces or potencies— which are really the over­
shadowing 42 Fires— pass down to the Plane below as " surplus
of life ” , thè passing “ down ” being due to the gravitational
attraction or pull of the lower Plane, as felt by their inferior
swabhàva or inherent characteristic. Hence, as soon as they touch
their own realms, so to say, the " sleeping ” fires of the Life-
Waves belonging by nature to those realms, begin to awaken, the
life-waves appropriate and belonging to that Plane begin to
work, and the Elemental Kingdom No. I on Globe B begins its
life-cycle.
Let us go back to Globe A. When the Elemental Kingdom
No. 2 has finished its work on Globe A, i.e., when it has run
through its seven stock-races on Globe A, then Elemental King­
dom No. 3 steps in as did No. 2, after No. 1. Immediately
thereupon the gravitational pull on No. 2, after that Elemental
Kingdom No. 2 on Globe A has gone into dormancy, draws that
" surplus of life ” in Elemental Kingdom No. 2 down to Globe B,
where immediately No. 2 on Globe B begins to awaken and to
work, and to gather in the life-atoms belonging to it on that Plane.
Thus, on Globe A, we have Elemental Kingdoms 1 and 2 in
dormancy, and No. 3 working out its life-cycle on Globe A.
Elemental Kingdom No. 1, when it has finished its sevenfold
course of work on Globe B, passes similarly on to Globe C, and
begins to form it ; while No. 2 coincidently is entering on its work
on Globe B ; and No. 3 is on Globe A, as said.
Thus, then, at the present stage we have Elemental Kingdom
No. 1 beginning its work on Globe C ; Elemental Kingdom No. 1
in “ obscuration ” on Globe B, where No. 2 is active ; Elemental
Kingdoms Nos. 1 and 2 asleep, and Elemental Kingdom No. 3
active on Globe A. After its— No. 3’s— life-cycle is completed on
Globe A, then comes the fourth or Mineral Kingdom on Globe A,
and there does precisely as did its predecessors, Elemental
Kingdoms Nos. 1, 2, and 3, i.e., it runs through its sevenfold
stock-race or course on Globe A. And instantly that this is
finished, the Mineral Kingdom enters into dormancy or sleep or
‘‘ obscuration ” on Globe A, and the Vegetable Kingdom begins
to appear there. Meanwhile, when that happens, the Mineral
Kingdom passes down to Globe B, following the same rule or
operation or function of Nature as did the preceding Kingdoms or
Life-Waves. As the Vegetable Kingdom appears on Globe A,
Elemental Kingdom No. 3 passes on to Globe C. No. 2 passes on
506 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
to Globe D, our Earth; and No. i then passes on to Globe E.
Then, on Globe A, appears the Animal Kingdom; and when it
has run through its sevenfold course it passes down to Globe B,
and coincidently each of the five preceding Kingdoms or Life-
Waves makes a step forward to the next globe. Then, finally,
comes the 7th, the Human, Kingdom, on Globe A. 9o that when
the Human on Globe A appears, the first Elemental Kingdom
is beginning its work on Globe G— the last of the manifest seven.
Thus, step by step, one Kingdom or Life-Wave following the
other in turn, the seven Life-Waves pass from Globe A to Globe G
through all the intermediate Globes ; but when the 7th or Human
Kingdom reaches Globe G, the other Kingdoms are also respec­
tively completing their evolution there ; the reason being The
Law of Retardation operating to slow up the progress of the
inferior Kingdoms on the Upward Arc, because these inferior
Kingdoms ascend through the Globes on the Upward Arc with
more difficulty than the higher and more evolved Kingdoms.
The drag of matter holds them back.
Now, this is the first Chain-Round. From the second Chain-
Round on, the process is different, and we shall have to study
that difference in detail next week, perhaps, or at a later meeting.
Meanwhile, please get this clear. The March of the Life-Waves
through the spheres, represents one detail of the Circulations of
the Kosmos— the passing of the life-entities from sphere to sphere.
Furthermore, before we close this part of our study tonight,
remember that we have been speaking mostly of Globe A ; and
that therefore when we say “ Mineral ” and “ Vegetable ” and
“ Animal ” and “ Human ” , we do not mean those things as we
know them on Earth today, on this Globe D in this Fourth Round,
in their already more or less evolved condition now. We are
speaking of the First Round of and through the First Planet, or
Globe A ; and those Kingdoms as they then were, would be to
our present perceptions, even at their fullest development on
Globe A during the First Round, the mere filmy and invisible
and wholly imperfect presentments of whi\t they are to be in the
future— i.e., they would seem to us to be spiritual entities. And
yet to their own Globe, and to themselves, even in that first
Round and on that first Globe A, they were as physical as our
Globe is now to us, and we are to each other.
At our last meeting, Comrades, the Teacher asked me to give
tonight a fuller answer to the question that she put to me then
regarding our Esoteric studies— an answer more complete than
I was able last week to make on account of the lack of time. You
remember that the Teacher asked me to tell you what would be
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 507
a good answer to the question frequently asked : “ What is the
basis of proof upon which our esoteric teachings rest ? Whence
came they, and how old are they ? " And she suggested that such
an answer might be useful for inquiring minds among us, for those
who had be«p, as it were, newly born into our Order. In the first
place, then, lpt us take the first part of this question : “ What is
the basis of proof ? ” The answer to that is simple. The basis
of proof is the operations and functions of Universal Nature, as
we have repeatedly said already. Nature : by " Nature ” we
mean, not physical nature alone, but all that is, inner and outer,
higher and lower— everything; for that is Truth, that is, the
Reality of Being. Now that is the basis. How do we gain an
understanding and a knowledge of these things and facts of
Universal Nature ? So far as the understanding is concerned, the
argument in proof is presented on the same grounds on which any
fact or truth of Nature is presented and by an appeal to intelligence
and common sense.
“ Science ” in our days is a word to swear by. Call a thing
“ scientific ” and people will swallow it without much pretence
of close analysis. It does not matter much to the average man
whether the scientific allegation be true or not per se. He rarely
examines it. It may be a “ scientific fact ” today; and then
tomorrow it is replaced by some other “ scientific fact ” . No
men in the world, I venture to say, have more real reverence
for true Science, i.e., for classified and co-ordinated knowledge,
than have Theosophists; but, as we have said many times, for
the fancies and fads and theories and hypotheses of scientific
researchers, we have no more respect than those fancies and fads
and theories and hypotheses are intrinsically worth. Our experi­
ence has shown us that they vary and change and are too often
replaced by others, to receive from us more than a modicum of
respect; and it matters very little to us whether we receive
obloquy and persecution for this our attitude of devotion to Fact
and Truth per se. It is our duty to search for and to tell the
Truth when found. As pointed out a year or two ago, we have
attacked, from the timé when H. P. Blavatsky began her great
work, two of the fundamental theories of modern physical science:
the hypothesis of the “ Conservation of Energy ” , and that of
the " Correlation of Physical Forces ” . Neither of these is true ;
yet both are partly true; and now, after having received for
many years past much ridicule and cheap-jack criticism, we find
our very metaphysical brothers— the sometimes learned, often
enterprising, and frequently truly self-denying investigators into
Nature’s secrets— telling us— as yet in guarded whispers— that
these two supposed fundamental and eternal supports of Physical
Science are open to criticism and to a more rigid investigation.
508 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
They are not now certain whether or not these two theories are
true after a ll! And that attitude of truly scientific reserve, is
right. The day when Science begins to dogmatize through its
representatives, it becomes nothing more than a peculiar kind of
church. I know of nothing that kills dogmatism more quickly
and easily and naturally than these studies in our Ancient
Wisdom ; for the simple reason that no sooner do we understand
one thing, and think that we have seized a final truth, than we
learn from the expansion of our faculties and our knowledge, the
very wholesome lesson that it is but a baby’s introduction to a
truth still more sublime. We learn that lesson very, very quickly ;
and if we have any tendency to dogmatize or to worship mental
idols of any kind, that tendency is quickly killed in us by Theo-
sophical study. And we may thank the immortal gods that it is
so !
But here is our point: we return to it. Ask any scientist for
proof of one of the theorems, of one of the established theorems,
of his Science ; let us put it even more forcibly : for proof of one of
the more recondite facts of Nature; and he will probably say
to you : “ My dear S ir! When you come to me, after having
pursued an adequate course of study, and your mind has. been
disciplined to understand what you are asking about, and you
are ready to investigate, then I may be able better to aid you,
for then you will be able to understand what I shall have to say."
And the man would be absolutely right in giving such an answer;
and that answer is exactly in substance what our own Teachers
tell us. That answer comprises the basis of the argument in
proof. When the questioner or aspirant is willing to discipline
himself and to study, not merely to read, but to give adequate
thought and study to the subject— mental study and mental and
moral discipline, including physical care for the body, and above
all else showing deep spiritual aspiration ; when he has thus truly
disciplined himself, because Discipline precedes the Mysteries;
when his nature is thus opened up and trained, all exactly in
principle as the scientist tells the inquirer to do before the latter
can understand the truth; then he shall know; for, as our
Masters tell us : " Live the life, and ye shall know the Doctrine,
because knowledge will come to you naturally.” And this living
the life, let us say in passing, means not merely one thing, it does
not mean merely morality of sex alone, however important that
truly is ; it means, if anything, far more than that. It means the
full training of the interior man to be true, right, clean, aspiring;
in other words, the good old-fashioned word Righteousness,
acting rightly because you are thinking rightly; because such
training opens wide the doors within to the Light. The man—
and this applies to the woman, too, of course— who has envy or
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 509
jealousy or hatred or selfish ambition corroding his soul, or who
nourishes revenge in his heart, or any other and all others of these
denizens of the inner infernal regions, these hellions of the inner
man, is utterly unfit to understand the Doctrine ; and for a very
simple reason. His intellect is befuddled and beclouded. His
psychic nature is thickened and rendered gross. His inner nature
is cut off from its spiritual Sun and its inspiration ; and his very
brain-mind becomes opaque to the millions of rays of the higher
nature.
Now these are old reflexions ; we all know them ; we have read
them time and time again. But let us take home into our hearts
this illustration: Just as the scientist tells his inquirer : When you
have studied and are prepared, then come to me, and we will begin
investigation, for then you will be able to understand. So do our
Teachers tell us : When you are disciplined and are ready, when
you are prepared and trained, then come to us and we will investi­
gate Nature’s secrets, and you will then have first-hand proof;
because you yourself, your inner nature, will not merely have been
so quickened that knowledge will come to you naturally and
intuitionally, and you will know; but your soul, or rather spirit-
soul, through the methods of training of the Ancient Wisdom,
and of the Ancient Schools, will be sent into the very Heart of
Being, of Universal Nature; and you will discover first-hand
knowledge for yourself—a Knowledge that will endure unchanged
for aye!
Remember that this answer is given for us here in this School,
for our inner members. It simply imbodies facts that we all
know. Our teachings are based on, or rather are the codified
expression, the formulated expression, of the fundamental opera­
tions orfunctions of Nature, of Universal Nature. The argument
in proof, or the demonstration, takes exactly the same form, and
rests upon exactly the same grounds, as does the argument or
proof of a fact in natural physical science. Fulfil the conditions,
and you will have the knowledge, says the one; and so says the
other. t
Now as regards the Whence. These teachings came to the
first conscious human race on our Globe in this Round from
semi-divine beings who brought them over from a previous
manvantara; and these semi-divine beings were once men, as
we now are. These beings or Revealers are what we shall in our
turn be when the sevenfold manvantara of our Planetary Chain
shall have ended its course; and we shall then become the
Teachers and Instructors on the future Planetary Chain, the child
and offspring of this Chain, of those vast hosts of less progressed
entities who are now trailing along behind us on this Chain.
This form of instruction was first communicated to the original
5io FUNDAMENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
thinking human race by direct passing; and then, as time went
on, and the races of men sank more deeply into matter, there were
established Leaders of the people, priest-kings of the so-called
divine dynasties, a fact which was the original source of what has
now become a mere legend, the so-called " divine riglff of kings ” ,
which was then an actual fact. There were then true-priest-kings,
leaders of men; spiritual souls in other words, consciously work­
ing among men. Then, still later, when the races sank still more
deeply into matter, these priest-kings, great and noble beings,
geniuses of the first water, spiritual luminaries in every sense,*were
replaced by the priest-colleges, depositories of the primeval
Revelation ; and then the Mysteries were inaugurated, to which
chosen ones were taken from the masses of the people for initiation
and for spiritual and intellectual training, in an era still more
engrossed in matter.
This last happened at about the middle period of the Fourth
Root-Race, the Race which preceded ours; and this system of
the Mysteries has descended even to our own day.
But there is still one fact most difficult to explain, but which
must be gone into at least shortly in order to complete our
survey ; and that is, that from the very beginning of our Round
on this Earth, from the very beginning of the First Race, a Race
of empty and mentally senseless “ shells ”— in the sense that the
beasts are " shells ” , not being enlightened by the inner intel­
lectual light, the inner rays, the Manasaputras,— from the very
beginning of Human Race-life on this Earth in this Round,
certain Entities of far higher grade than man will be even aeons
upon aeons hence, had come to Earth and had watched over and
guided the evolution of the First and Second and early Third
Races. During the Third Stock-Race they created, by the power
of Will and Yoga, by KriyaSakti, a Mystic Body of high Adepts
and Seers, a Body which is the most secret and hid; and this
Body has functioned and worked even down to our own times,
and it is what we today call the Lodge of our Masters, its repre­
sentative among men on Earth today. Those beings “ created ”
by Will and Yoga, by KriyaSakti, were they who carried on the
Mystic Knowledge, the Wisdom of the Gods, from age to age
during the aeons that dropped, one after the other, into the
background of the Past, passing that Knowledge on to their
successors in turn, until it at present has reached our own day.
Now let us leave this, and take up the third point of query. How
old is the Esoteric Wisdom ? We have already answered that
question in the foregoing observations ; but we might add this,
that its age is incomputable per se— it is, rather, ageless. Can
you tell me, please, how old are the functions and operations of
Universal Nature ? Tell me that, and then I will tell you how
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 511
old the Ancient Wisdom is I It is ageless. This Wisdom of
Universal Nature, the Reality of Being, is the same to an inhabi­
tant of a planet circling around Sirius or any other great or small
star, as it is to us. It is that Wisdom which is in our day truly
called “ Theosophy ”, God-Wisdom, the Wisdom of the Gods—
that which they themselves study, we may say.
There was another question which was sent in to the Teacher
for aftswer. She has asked me not to spend much time on it, for
our evening’s study is already overlong. It came in a letter, and
it alludes to what is an apparent misunderstanding with regard
to the planet Mars. This Comrade seems to have misunderstood,
or at least to be disturbed by, the fact that the planet Mars was
reckoned as one of the planets overseeing one of the Globes on the
ascending Chain of our System : in other words, the sixth Globe
of the manifest seven of our Chain, and also as overseeing one of
the globes of the hid five ; and she asks : " Why is this ? If
Mars represents the principle of desire or kama, as in diagram II,
of No. I of the E.S.T. Instructions, would it not come in the
order there indicated ? Do not the colored circles in plate III
of the same No. I Instructions, represent the correct order of the
Hierarchies or sacred Planets and principles ? ” I think this
comrade has confused the idea. Let us point out first that we
are not alluding to the physical planet Mars. We are alluding
to the Hierarchy Mars, when we speak of it as being the overseer or
controller of two of our twelve globes.
Furthermore, as representing the principle of kama or desire,
please bear in mind that Mars is also a septenary ; that it has its
own seven, ten, or twelve Globes, and that these Globes are
divine, and spiritual, and psychic, and one of them physical, as
is our Globe Earth. Desire is dual. There is a divine desire as
well as an evil desire. What is aspiration, for instance ?
Obviously, the Globes correspond in the Martian chain to those
which it affects in our fhain ; and it exercises on the Globes of
those two Planes a corresponding influence, a noble one.
Whence comes that impulse in a man's nature which makes
him eagerly desire to do good ? Yes, remember the old Greek
cosmogonic mythos, that the first divinity to stir in the bosom
of Chaos, was Eros, Divine Desire. Everything has its opposite,
desire included.
And this Comrade further asks a question with regard to
" Mars, Mercury, and the four other planets ” , quoting H. P.
Blavatsky : " They bear a relation to Earth, of which no Master
or high Occultist will ever speak, much less explain the nature."
And she adds : “ Have not disciples a right to know if they guess
512 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
right ? ” Our Teachers have told us that in such case they most
certainly have; but our companion has not guessed aright.
And, as remarked before, H. P. Blavatsky has said, as this com­
rade points out, that it is a matter which cannot be alluded to in
anything that is public or that goes out to the public. But I
might say this, perhaps : This special septenary represents a
particular group whose function is to act in building another
Planetary Chain.
There is another question that has been asked on the subject
of man’s entire inner constitution : whether this is also twelve­
fold, as is the complete constitution of the Planetary Chain. We
have said that man has seven manifest principles, which make
of him a complete man. He also has three higher principles
which, when they become manifest in him, make of him a divine
being, a Dhyan-Chohan. In addition to all these, he has two
more “ links ” . I have avoided speaking of them as “ principles ” ,
in order to avoid creating confusion. But he has two more
” links ” : one in his higher nature, and one beneath him ; along
one or the other of which it is his destiny to travel. Now you
may call these two extra “ links ” “ principles ” if you like. I
do not think that they should be so-called because man is a self-
conscious hierarchy. His entire nature is a denary, or composed
of ten fundamental principles ; and really this higher “ link ” is
the Root by which he is rooted into Divinity. It is so high above
him, that to say that it is one of man’s “ principles ” sounds to
me like a desecration of thought, or a blasphemy.
On the other hand, in the nadir of his being, beneath him, he
has the other " link ” , or the twelfth, if you like, counting down­
wards. This other link, this other body or field of matter or
force, or both, or force-matter or energy-substance, along which
it may be his awful destiny to travel, is his link with Absolute
Matter, and is the opposite of his Divine Root.
Now, the further question comes up : Can you call these two
links “ principles ” or not ? I can only say that if you call them
“ principles ” then man’s twelve principles correspond in a
general way each to each to the twelve Globes of our Chain. But
otherwise we may say this, that the first (or the last) of these
twelve Globes symbolizes man’s link with the Divine ; and our
Earth-Globe, the lowest in the diagram on page 499, which is
the copy in gross matter of the highest Globe, is his link going
downwards into Absolute Matter.
You remember what H. P. Blavatsky says in one of her
beautiful works, the Voice of the Silence, where she speaks of the
“ men of Myalba ” . Now, Myalba is our Earth, and it is also
called a Hell. It is so considered in the Esoteric Wisdom ; and
we have pointed out before and now once more say in concluding
FUNDAMENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 513
this answer, that of these hells some are described as being quite
pleasant and agreeable to the beings who inhabit them ; but to
the beings who live on the superior Globes above them they
would be awful. The description of a Globe as a hell must be
properly understood, in order to get the meaning of this truly
profound fact. " Hell ” means the limitations and sorrows
inevitable to spiritual entities passing through a globe of gross
matter, sucK as our Earth-Globe is.
CHAPTER XLVI
THE CHELA-LIFE. SEVEN AND TEN LIFE-WAVES t THE COURSE OF
THE MONADS AROUND THE SEVEN GLOBES : LAWS OF
" ACCELERATION ” ON THE DOWNWARD AND OF " RETARDA­
TION ” ON THE UPWARD ARC. FIFTH AND SIXTH ROUNDERS.
THE SACRED " WORD.”
There are many sorts of chelas. There are lay chelas and probationary ones ;
accepted chelas and those who are trying to fit themselves to be even lay chelas.
Any person can constitute himself a lay chela, feeling sure that he may never in
this life consciously hear from his guide. Then as to probationary chelas, there
is an invariable rule that they go upon seven years’ trial. These “ trials ” do
not refer to fixed and stated tests, but to all the events of life and the bearing of
the probationer in them. There is no place to which applicants can be referred
where their request could be made, because these matters do not relate to places
and to officials: this is an affair of the inner nature. We become chelas; we obtain
that position in reality because our inner nature is to that extent opened that it
can and will take knowledge : we receive the guerdon at the hands of the Law.
Letters That Have Helped M e (W. Q. Judge), pp. 64, 65.
Verily ! it is this noble eightfold path ; that is to say :
Right views;
Right aspirations;
Right speech ;
Right conduct;
Right livelihood ;
Right effort;
Right mindfulness ; and
Right contemplation.
This, O Bhikkhus, is that middle path, avoiding these two extremes, dis­
covered by the Tathagata— that path which opens the eyes, and bestows under­
standing, which leads to peace of mind, to the higher wisdom, to full enlighten­
ment, to Nirvana !
Sacred Books of the East— Dhamma-Qhakka-Ppavattana-Sutta
(F. Max Muller).
Seek this wisdom by doing service, by strong search, by questions, and by
humility ; the wise who see the truth will communicate it unto thee, and knowing
which thou shalt never again fall into error.
Bhagavad-Gitd, Ch. IV (\y. Q. Judge’s Recension).
Let loyalty and truth be paramount with you. Confucius.
Be what you love. Strive after what you find beautiful and high, and let
the rest go. Harmony, sacrifice, devotion : take these for keynotes ; express
them everywhere and in the highest possible way. ^ q Judge.
T
HERE is something very beautiful and encouraging in
the thought that the doctrines which we study have
been studied with the same devotion in other ages, not
only by learners such as we are, but by the greatest
minds of all times; and, furthermore, that these being the
doctrines of Nature, of Mother Nature, they are essentially the
514
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 515
same in all parts of the boundless spaces of the Kosmos ; so that
kindred thinkers on the planets of other Solar Systems study the
same essential thoughts that we do. As the mind of man grows
in its comprehension of these wonderful doctrines ; as his mind
expands and his soul grows greater under the inspiriting rays of
his inner spiritual sun; he comes to realize that the more he
learns, the more does he know that there are endless knowledges
ahead to learn ; until, finally, the student reaches the point
where his whole soul is infilled with a reverence and a love and
a demotion for Truth and his Teachers, that know no limits ; and
truly, that realization is the mainspring and the inspiration of what
we call the chela-life.
I have been hoping, before the present cycle of our studies is
concluded, to take advantage of the Teacher’s permission given
some months ago to touch upon this question of the inner life of
the student, the chela-life ; because I know nothing that is more
beautiful, nothing that is so encouraging, and at the same time
nothing that calls for larger exercise of the truly spiritual will
and of the higher understanding than do the requirements of
soul needed in order to follow that chela-life ; because that life
calls out everything that a man has in him, or a woman has in
her— everything. You may remember that H. P. Blavatsky
somewhere, in fact in several places, speaks of the chela-life as
being very, very beautiful, and at other times as being a “ terrible”
thing. And so it is, and for one simple reason which we shall
mention, and then we shall turn to our evening’s study.
The reason is this : Beautiful we know it is. But why should
it be “ terrible ” ? Because no sooner does the student set his
feet finally and firmly on that still small Path which we are told
leads to the very heart of the Universe, than everything that is in
his karman and that would find expression through many future
lives perhaps, comes down upon him all at the same time, more
or less; and, as H. P. Blavatsky says, to succeed requires an
inflexible will of iron and an undivided concentration of all his
faculties upon the Groat Work. He must face, and conquer, in
one short lifetime perhaps, the karmic fruitages of bygone
mistakes and failures falling upon his devoted soul; all at once,
like horrible ghosts of the past. You can imagine what that
means ! He must face them, and conquer ! Such is the working
of Nature and the Karmic Law ; and all aspirants must go through
the trial. Our Teachers as well as all others have had to face
karmic circumstances, and conquer them ; and these things have
been a puzzle to the ignorant outside world, which inevitably has
most unjustly blamed the aspirant. In our own beloved H. P.
Blavatsky’s life, to take an instance, there are passages which,
as anyone who knows of and who can understand them aright,
5i6 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
will realize redound infinitely to her credit; but the ignorant
and biased and cruel world outside does not see the originating
karmic cause of past lives in those passages, and blamed her as
having originated them in this life, as “ weaknesses ” in its blind
view, because it does not know of what these greater^souls have
to face when their devoted feet are following the Path to Glory
and Success— “ working out old Karman ” , as the saying is.
I think that this is a very valuable truth which we should
carefully reflect over; and to me it has always been a very
practical and morally useful one, because it brings charity for
others into our hearts; a greater kindliness; and a greater
realization of the nobility, of the self-sacrifice, of those who tread
this Path— notfor themselves but for us, a Path which yet is pure
joy ; it is absolutely so ; but, on the other hand, until the final
victories have been won, and they must be won, it is often strewn
with pitfalls and surrounded with circumstances which cause the
treader of that Path to be grossly and cruelly misjudged by the
world, which sees but understands not.
Now we have been studying during the last few evenings, as
you will remember, the Doctrine of the Planetary Chains, and
we have arrived at the point where we are enabled to see how
the various planets of our Chain, as illustrating all the Planetary
Chains, came into being as the off-throwings of the Life-Waves
coming down from the Rest to which they had gone when leaving
the preceding Planetary Chain at its pralaya, or death.
Now what do we mean when we speak of “ Life-Waves ” , the
seven— or the ten ? We mean the collective hosts of the Monads ;
and in order to have a short and easy definition, which perhaps
will best recall to our minds what a Monad is, let us call it, if you
please, a spiritual ego. It is, in fact, a consciousness-center, being
in the spiritual realms of the Universal Life what the life-atoms
are in the lower Planes of Form. Now these Monads and life-
atoms collectively are the seven (or ten) Life-Waves— these
Monads with the life-atoms in and through which they work;
these life-atoms having remained— when, the former Planetary
Chain went into Pralaya— in space as Kosmic dust on the physical
plane, and as corresponding life-atoms or life-specks of differenti­
ated matter on the intermediate planes above the physical.
Out of the working of the Monads as they come down into
matter— or rather through and by the Monadic rays permeating
the lower planes of matter— are the globes builded : partly out
of the substance of the Monads themselves, thrown out from
themselves; and partly from the ingathering of the life-atoms
magnetically attracted to the incoming monadic Life-Waves, for
these are the same life-atoms that formed the various vehicles of
those identical Monads in the preceding Planetary Chain, and
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 517
therefore are now attracted to them again. These life-atoms had
remained behind, when that former Chain died, on each of the
various planes : the Physical, the Astral, the Psychic, the
Intellectual, the Quasi-spiritual, the Spiritual, and the Divine ;
for all the^e Planes or Worlds have their various life-atoms (or
building-bricks) through and in which these spiritual egos or
Monads work.
Now you‘will remember that we have already explained the
building of the Globe A, the first on the downward arc of our own
Plartetary Chain. Let us briefly recapitulate. The seven (or ten)
Hosts of Monads, or the seven Life-Waves, consist of Monads in
seven degrees of advancement for each host, or in ten degrees, if
we count ten. Let us say seven for purposes of easy illustration.
Therefore, these seven main Hosts with their seven subdivisions
each, comprise the forty-nine “ Fires ” , or the forty-nine sub­
life-waves, which work and function through the globes of the
Planetary Chain during the Rounds after they have builded those
globes. These seven main groups or Hosts or Hierarchies per­
tained each one to a respective one of the seven manifest globes
of the Planetary Chain that was ; of the Moon in our case ; and
they build each one the respective new globe of the Planetary
Chain that is or that will be— of the Earth in our case. Yet all
enter into the work of building each globe ; for instance, Globe A ;
and when Globe A is builded, they all enter into the work of
building Globe B ; and likewise so with Globes C and D and E
and F and G, which are all of the manifest seven.
In doing this work of building, first enter into the arena of
activity, as said before, the three Kingdoms of the Elementáis,
one kingdom of which may perhaps be called a spiritual Kingdom.
The second Kingdom of the Elementáis we may perhaps call a
Quasi-spiritual or Âkâàic Kingdom ; and the third Elemental
Kingdom is much more material, immediately preceding the
Mineral which is the fourth Kingdom. The other Life-Waves or
the Hosts or Hierarchies, outside of these four, are those of the
Vegetable, the so-called Beast or Animal, and the Human ; and
then finally above these seven are three other Kingdoms, thus
forming ten ; and these three highest are the Kingdoms of the
Dhyân-Chohans, the completed or fully evolved Entities from
the preceding Lunar Manvantara. About them there is a most
fascinating detailed study, which we cannot go into tonight.
It has reference to the reason why these particular Dhyân-
Chohans failed to attain full Dhyân-Chohanship during the
Lunar Manvantara, and therefore were obliged to take a hand
in the building of the succeeding Planetary Chain, that of our
Earth ; in which they actually function, however, as the inspiring
spirits, the inspiring gods, so to say.
518 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Now then : first enters Elemental Kingdom Number i, and
forms the basis or lays the foundation of Globe A. When it has
run through its sevenfold cycle, when its seventh sub-cycle
begins, its first sub-class is attracted to the plane below in order
to form the foundation of Globe B as it had done that di Globe A.
But it is the “ Surplus of Life ” which so descends. The actual
Elemental Kingdom Number x belonging to Globe A remains
behind on Globe A and goes into dormancy there ; Whereas the
Surplus of Life which Elemental Kingdom Number i had in its
bosom (latent as it were in Globe A) is projected out or attracted
to that spot of Kosmos which is to develop into Globe B, because
the monads of this “ Surplus of Life ” belonged to Globe B,
of the Lunar Chain, as the Monads on Globe A did to Globe A
of the Lunar Chain. Then follows on Globe A, Elemental King­
dom Number 2 ; followed in turn by all the other Kingdoms. As
each new Kingdom enters Globe A, a step forward is taken by all
the preceding Kingdoms, each to its succeeding Globe.
After Elemental Kingdom Number 2 ends its course, then on
Globe A follows Elemental Kingdom Number 3 ; and when its
seventh sub-kingdom is running its course, its first sub-kingdom
is projected to Globe B, which also attracts the same. Mean­
while, the first sub-kingdom on Globe B of Number 2 moves to
Globe C ; and Elemental Kingdom Number 1 passes to Globe D ;
and so it is that these Kingdoms follow each other, step by step,
globe after globe, up to Globe G.
Then on Globe A comes the Mineral Kingdom, or what may
be called the Mineral Kingdom on such a spiritual globe as is
Globe A. We probably could not conceive of its condition on
Globe A, First Round, in our present condition of existence here
on Globe D, Fourth Round, although we— our Monads— passed
through that condition on Globe A. We ourselves as monads
took a part in that building of the Mineral on Globe A, First
Round.
Each one of the Kingdoms on the several globes below Globe A,
when the Mineral Kingdom enters Globe 4, now each in its turn
moves a step forward to the next globe. Then appears the
Vegetable Kingdom on Globe A, and then the Animal, and then
the Human. As each following one appears, each of the preceding
Kingdoms, each on its globe, moves one step forward to its next
globe; so that it works out that when the first sub-kingdom of
Elemental Kingdom No. 1 reaches the last manifest globe, or
Globe G, the first sub-kingdom of the Human (or what is the
" Human ” for Globe A) reaches Globe A and runs its course
there. Then follow on Globe A the three highest Kingdoms, the
Dhyan-Chohanic, but in a very peculiar w ay; and it would
overload our minds, I think, at the present time, to go into the
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 519
details of that study now. Let us get the main principles of the
course of the monads around the seven globes clear first.
Now when these seven Kingdoms— from Elemental No. 1 to
the Hum^i— have finished their evolution on Globe A during this
First Round, Globe A goes into what Mr. Sinnett called " obscura­
tion ” , that is, into dormancy ; it goes to sleep. Everything on
it is now dormant, is sleeping, awaiting the incoming of the Life-
Waves when Round No. 2 begins. Please remember that we
are now studying Round Number 1 only. Beginning with Round
Number 2, the process followed by the Life-Waves through the
seven globes, changes. Again when the Life-Waves have run
their full sevenfold course, or their seven Stock-Races or Root-
Races on Globe B, then it in its turn goes into dormancy or
“ obscuration ” , which is not pralaya, please. Technically not.
It may be possible to call the state of dormancy by the name of
" pralaya ” in a general sense ; but “ Pralaya ” really means
disintegration and disappearance, like that of death. But
" obscuration ” is sleep. It is, really, dormancy, but Mr. Sinnett
called it " obscuration ” . And so is it with each one of these
seven globes, one after the other. When the final or rather the
last representatives of the last Stock-Race, i.e., of the last Life-
Wave, leave it, each one in turn then goes to sleep or into
dormancy.
But there is an interesting fact, due to what our Masters have
called the “ Law of Acceleration ” operating on the Downward
Arc, and the “ Law of Retardation ” operative on the Upward
Arc. It so happens that the most evolved Kingdoms, such as the
Human and the Beast and the Vegetable, pass through their
various cycles more quickly than do the younger Kingdoms or
Hosts of these seven Life-Waves or Hierarchies, such as the
Mineral and the three Elemental Kingdoms. These latter are
younger, and have not been over the ground before; whereas
the more evolved Kingdoms have to go over what is, in a certain
sense, a more familiar path— unfamiliar only in this respect, that
they are now running the Round in a new Planetary Chain, on
and in and through a new Plane or World of the Universal
Kosmos.
Remember that there are seven Planes of Kosmos, ten really ;
but we are now keeping our study limited to the seven manifest
Planes. With each new Planetary Chain, a new subdivision of
one of those seven Worlds or Planes is entered upon, for this
purpose: to gain experience in every World or Plane that the
Universal Solar System offers the evolving entities of the Life-
Waves. So that when seven full Chain-Manvantaras have been
run through : in other words, when seven Planetary Chains have
been lived through, one complete Plane of the Kosmos has been
526 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
traversed or experienced by the Life-Waves; and there then
ensues what is called a “ Solar Pralaya This is another deep
subject which we reserve for future study.
Now, then, all the entities in our First Round on our present
Planetary Chain, have reached Globe G, the last of the manifest
seven ; the smaller and inferior and less evolved entities having
had more trouble and difficulty in making the route, in running the
round, on account of having had less experience in former great
cycles. But as these less Kingdoms, inferior Kingdoms, come
down the Arc of Descent, being more matter-full than the more
evolved, i.e., the older and therefore more spiritualized, they run
faster than do these latter; and this is the Acceleration of the
speed of development of the lower Kingdoms on the Downward
Arc. Conversely, on the Upward Arc, from our Globe D or the
Earth, the rate of development is reversed ; the higher Kingdoms
run faster, while there is for those lower Kingdoms, a Law of
Retardation : Acceleration for the Higher Kingdoms, such as the
Human, but a slowing down or Retardation for the Lower
Kingdoms.
Here, then, is the reason why the process of evolution works
out as I have tried to explain i t : When all these seven Hier­
archies do finally reach Globe G during this First Round, they
reach it all together, that is to say, they gather on that last Globe
G all together, Globe G being the last globe of the manifest seven;
and here they all finish the First Round simultaneously before the
Inter-Planetary Nirvana begins.
After this long Inter-Planetary Nirvana, when it is ended, then
opens Round 2 on Globe A ; and Round 2 is the exemplar, or
sets the example, of the evolutionary process for all the succeed­
ing five rounds, seven rounds in a ll; and while, indeed, the
same general procedure or plan of evolving on each globe, and
from globe to globe, that was followed in the First Round still
holds, there is this immense difference, that all the “ houses ” , the
" tenements ” , used by the evolving entities in the Second Round,
were builded during the First Round for them. They are ready
and awaiting the incoming Monads, as the Sishtas, the “ Re­
mainders ” , of the First Round. So that the entities, the Host
of Monads, when they return to Globe A and the other globes
of the Chain, for the Second Round, have but to step into and
thus awaken these sleeping bodies or houses, each Host passing
into its own Class, instead of having to build anew and go through
the lowest houses or bodies up to the highest, as was the case in
the First Round, for each Kingdom now enters into its own
appropriate bodies evolved during the First Round and now
waiting for the incoming Monads. And so it is on each of the seven
Globes of the Planetary Chain. When Round 3 begins, an
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 521
identical procedure is followed ; and likewise for all succeeding
rounds.
Another immense difference, already alluded to, is this : that
beginning with the Second Round, all the lines of evolution or
activity nbw having been laid, and nothing having to be instituted
de novo, from the ground up, as it were, the progress of the Life-
Waves or Hierarchies is relatively faster for those which are the
most evolved: having this effect, that some smaller hosts of
monads, and individuals, too, outrun the others, run through
their evolutionary course much more rapidly, and thus out­
distance or precede the general body of the seven evolving
Hierarchies, so that, for instance, when they leave our own
Globe D, they pass on ahead of, or before, the bulk of the advanc­
ing army, to Globe E, and then to Globe F, and finally to G the
last, and then have their Inter-Planetary Nirvana ahead of their
more slowly evolving brothers; and return to Globe A as advanced
Rounders. In our case, the case just cited, they would be
" Fifth Rounders ” , since our present Round is the Fourth. This
is why we have Fifth Rounders now among us, although we as a
Human Host are in our Fourth Round. As regards the “ Sixth
Rounders ”— those whose spirituality is so high, and whose
innate capacity acquired through long aeons of experience is so
great that they outrun even the Fifth Rounders, as regards these
— they are very, very few in number. Our Teachers tell us that
Gautama the Lord Buddha is the only fully developed Sixth
Rounder in recorded history who has succeeded in attaining
this exalted state, and he only— the noblest initiate in recorded
history, he only— succeeded by virtue of a Mystery I— i.e., a
profoundly esoteric process.
There remain a few scattered thoughts for us to take up and
advert to before we leave our study tonight. F irst: the seven
so-called Sacred Planets are not all necessarily higher in degree or
stage of evolution than is our Earth-Chain, although they do
indeed actually build our Earth-Chain by their supervision and
guiding influence as Architects, and by and through the forces
which they lend to the evolving Hierarchies or Life-Waves
belonging to our Chain. Some of them, of our seven Sacred
Planets, are actually lower than the Earth is, spiritually. Others
are higher. Others again are higher in degree but less evolved in
time than we are. That is to say, they are spiritually higher, yet
they are younger in years. As, for instance, a son is younger in
years than is his father, but it is quite possible that the growing
boy is, spiritually speaking, his father’s superior ; not necessarily
so, but it could be so and often is. Gautama the Buddha is an
522 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
example in point. He vastly outranked not merely his own
family, but all human beings since his time, and also for ages
preceding his time.
As has been said, the Second Round opened the new process of
evolution for the remainder of the manvantara of our Planetary
Chain ; and at our next meeting we shall deal briefly with this;
and then we shall turn to our own Globe D and its evolutionary
history ; because it seems better to follow the lines of study laid
down by H. P. Blavatsky in The Secret Doctrine; and, after
having pointed out the general evolution of the Planetary Chain,
to come to our own Globe and specialize on it. Its history holds
all that we can possibly manage to study and understand for
months to come ; and this study will, of course, involve the study
of the seven great Stock-Races or Root-Races of our Globe during
this present Fourth Round.
I have before me three questions which the Teacher has asked
me briefly to answer. The first question is as follows :
“ What is the true esoteric explanation of the physiological and
psychic effect or influence exerted by the vibratory movement set in
motion by the sounding of the ‘ Word,’ upon the cerebral or nervous
centers of the human body, and is there any special, definite musical
note, which ought to be sustained throughout the sounding ? ”
This question we are not enabled to answer in full for two
reasons; first: interesting as it is, it does not bear upon the
subject of our present study, and the Teacher has instructed us
to limit our answers to questions bearing upon our present themes,
however interesting other questions might be. And the second
reason is, that a full answer to this very interesting question
would involve a virtually complete outline of practical Theurgy,
and that, of course, is impossible here and now. But we might
say this : the main thing is not so much what musical note is
sounded, as what is behind the sounding. If the sounding is to
be merely a humming, or making a musical noise, or a vocal
exercise, you might as well be still; but if there is behind the
sounding the aspiration of the heart, and the uplifting of the mind,
and the throwing of the will as a consciously exerted energy to
everything that is spiritually noble, it matters very little, so far
as we are concerned, on what note the voice is sounded. It is
what is aroused by Will and Meditation in the inner man, or what
the inner man is enabled to give out, that counts for good ; but
this does not mean that the proper sounding of this Mystic Word
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 523
cannot be done so as to produce the most wonderful effects. It
certainly can.
The next question is :
“ Is not .pur number 10 made of 6 and 4 instead of 7 and 3 ? The
upper and lower globes are connecting or transition-globes, as I under­
stand. W e have often been told that this earth is the real hell, so to
speak, which is now more comprehensible. Some beings, I understand,
m ay have t<
5 travel lower, which would mean backward, and this
must be connected with the mystery of the moon, it would seem. I
should also imagine that the lower globe at least, must have been
formed or evolved or compounded differently from the others."
The answer to the last part of this question is No. It has not
been evolved differently. As regards “ the upper and lower globes
being connecting or transition-globes ", I presume the Comrade
who sent this question in meant the uppermost and lowest; in
other words, Number 1, and our Earth. They are so. The rest
of the question has already been answered. The evolving entities
are ever travelling, either lower or higher ; and this is very truly
connected in one direction very straitly with the “ Mystery of the
Moon " ; but this is a subject which, for us at least, is and must
remain absolutely “ tabu " for the present.
I will in a few moments draw a diagram which will illustrate the
question of the 6 and 4, or 7 and 3. Meanwhile, we will go on to the
next question.
“ The moon must also have had twelve globes."
It did.
“ Are possibly our present globes the ones which held this position
for the moon ? "
They are, yes, in a sense ; not the actual present globes of our
Chain, but their “ privations ", as Aristotle would have said.
That is to say, those spiritual-astral remnants or types or images
which the lunar globes became when they went into pralaya, do
reappear again when the new Planetary Chain comes into being,
and around them is formed, as around a model, the 12 globes of
the Earth-Chain. The answer, then, is both Yes and No ; the
12 globes of the Moon that were, come out of “ privation " as
types or models for the 12 globes of the new Chain to be— the
Earth-Chain.
“ And those now above us the ones we shall next use, climbing as
does the nautilus, who *left the past year's dwelling for the new *? "
I do not fully, perhaps, understand this part of the question;
because, obviously, we shall use next all the globes on the
Ascending Arc, and of course we shall climb. Unless, indeed, the
524 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Comrade means, perhaps, three of the five hid globes, the three on
the Ascending Arc ; in which the answer is the same, Yes.
Now with regard to the 6 and 4, or 7 and 3. Perhaps I might
point out that it is quite possible theoretically to divide these
ten principles of man or Nature in various ways. I have never
heard, however, of a division into 6 and 4. I do not see why it
could not be so divided ; but I have never heard of such a
division ; and, to follow the old saying, “ We have not so received
it, and we cannot so impart it ” —in substance, an old Buddhist
saying. But the division into seven and three is a natural
division. There is a sharp separation between the divine worlds
and the worlds of manifestation, and this division into 7 and 3
shows it. But the best two divisions that I have ever heard of,
or seen, of the seven and ten principles, are this, and one other as
I shall now show in the following diagram :
D iagram T.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 525
Here we have an upper triangle (this diagram is a symbol, please
understand, a symbolic diagram) : a triangle with its “ horn ”
pointing upwards ; then an intermediate square below i t ; and
then a triangle with its " horn ” pointing downwards : these three
figures shoVing the ten innate or natural principles of man : The
Divine Triad; the Intermediate Quaternary, showing the
personal or individual entity as a composite and complete
“ man ” ; afid the lower triangle with its “ horn ” , if you like,
pointing downwards.
Ncrw this is a very general diagram, but it does show how the
>Ktonad
Indlvtduo) O
f*
S p iritu a l Ego
Kama: Persona! £c?o
Diagram II:
ten element-principles function : the Divine, the purely Material,
and the intermediate Quaternary. But for practical purposes,
I think the best way is to divide the ten principles of Man as
shown by Diagram II : First, of course, is the upper or Divine
Triangle, a figure which goes without saying. Then we divide the
Intermediate Quaternary, as already shown, into two Duads (I am
going to give here the most practical illustration that I have ever
heard of), and we now draw them as here shown in this second
diagram. Please remember that this composite drawing is a
symbolic diagram used merely for purposes of illustration. Here,
then, we have as before, the Divine Triad above ; then the Duad
of the Monad, so to say, Atma-Buddhi. Then the second or
2 M
526 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
personal or astral duad, which is Manas and Kama. Then below
is the inverted triangle representative of the mere vehicle, the
body— that is to say, the Sthula-Sarfra and the Linga-Sarira
and the Pranas. The value of this division is, that if you study
it, it will most admirably illustrate what happens to Aman post­
mortem, or after death. This intermediate quaternary, as shown,
can be divided, as said, into these two duads, which separate
naturally after death. They can be separated even in life,
without a man’s killing himself. When a man dies, the lower
triangle disperses, simply goes to pieces. The psychological
struggle after death, when the " second death ” ensues, takes
place between this lower duad, Kama and Manas, or Kama-
Manas, and the Monad, Atma-Buddhi; and if the upper Duad,
Atma-Buddhi, succeeds in taking out from this lower duad all
that is of good in it, then the reincarnating ego has its stock of
experience increased, and its incarnation has not then been a
failure.
The lower duad likewise is mortal, and finally goes to pieces ;
but the Monad, the upper Duad, is at last indrawn into the
Divine Triangle, into the three highest of the ten principles of
man, and there it passes its post-mortem experience, whether it be
Devachan for the ego of ordinary men or Nirvana for the Initiates.
CHAPTER XLVII
TEACHER AND PUPIL. REQUISITES OF CHELASHIP.
” i. To the earnest Disciple his Teacher takes the place of Father and Mother,
for, whereas they gave him his body and its faculties, its life and casual form, the
Teacher shows him how to develop the inner faculties for the acquisition of the
Eternal Wisdom.
“ 20 To the Disciple each Fellow-Disciple becomes a Brother and Sister, a
portion of himself, for his interests and aspirations are theirs, his welfare inter­
woven with theirs, his progress helped or hindered by their intelligence, morality,
and behaviour, through the intimacy brought about by their co-discipleship.”
From the Book of Discipline in the Schools of “ Dzyan.”
Given by H. P. Blavatsky to her pupils.
The Wise Ones tarry not in pleasure-grounds of senses.
The Wise Ones heed not the sweet-tongued voices of illusion.
Seek for him who is to give thee birth in the Hall of Wisdom, the Hall which
lies beyond, wherein all shadows are unknown, and where the light of truth
shines with unfading glory.
That which is uncreate abides in thee, Disciple, as it abides in that Hall. If
thou wouldst reach it and blend the two, thou must divest thyself of thy dark
garments of illusion.
Thou canst not travel on the Path before thou hast become that Path itself.
The Voice of the Silence (H. P. Blavatsky).
“ Upddhydya, the choice is made, I thirst for Wisdom. . . . Thy servant here
is ready for thy guidance.”
1Tis well, Sravaka. Prepare thyself, for thou wilt have to travel on alone.
The Teacher can but point the way. The Path is one for all, the means to reach
the goal must vary with the Pilgrims.
Ibid., ” The Seven Portals.”
W
E are going to interrupt the regular course of our
studies tonight in order to take up a subject which
undoubtedly is very dear to the hearts of all of us, and
upon which we have touched more or less briefly at
different times : that is to say the subject of the relationship
between Teacher and pupil, between what the old Hindus called
the Guru and the chela; We are going to treat it from the stand­
point of our own Order, of course ; not as that relationship has
been all too often misunderstood in different countries and at
different times in those periods which Plato called periods of
“ spiritual barrenness Our age is one of such periods ; or,
perhaps better, is just emerging from one; and you all remember,
doubtless, how in one of the most beautiful of the ancient Hindu
writings, the “ Bhagavad-Gita ” , the Logos Krishna states that at
such periods He incarnates anew in order to save and establish
the just and to overthrow the unjust and the wicked— for the
re-establishment of righteousness on earth.
Now this relationship is an extremely sacred one, because it is
527
528 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
a tie which binds closely heart to heart, mind to mind; and,
according to the beautiful teachings of the Ancient Wisdom, the
preceptor, the Teacher, the Guru, the Master— call him or her by
what name you will— acts as the midwife, bringing to birth,
helping to bring into the active life of the disciple, the hid part
of the disciple, the soul of the man. You remember that Socrates
always refused to hear himself called a Teacher in the ordinary-
sense. But he said : “ I am a midwife to young men, because
I bring their souls to birth. I help the inner being, the inner man,
to express himself ” . And this is exactly the spiritual relation
that the Teacher holds to the disciples, to the pupils, to the
chelas, the learners, the hearers— call them by what name
you will.
The idea is, again, that the latent spiritual potencies in the
mind and heart of the learner shall receive such assistance as the
Teacher can give, but it does not mean that the Teacher shall do all
the work that the disciple himself or herself must do. No child
can be taught to walk merely by seeing its parents walk ; and no
parent can eat for its child, or drink for its child, or learn for its
child. The child must do these things itself. You may remember
that H. P. Blavatsky frequently points out that, according to the
old teachings, the relationship of Teacher and disciple is infinitely
more sacred even than that of parent and child ; because, while
the parents give the body to the incoming soul, the Teacher brings
forth that soul itself and teaches it to see, and teaches it to know,
and teaches it to become what it is in its inmost being— that is, a
divine thing.
Now we pointed out at our last meeting that the so-called chela-
life, or chela-path, was a beautiful one, full of joy to its very end ;
but also, as a warning, lest such an idea be taken in a light or
frivolous manner, in a manner not sufficiently deeply understood,
we endeavored also to point out that it called forth and needed
everything noble and high in the learner or disciple himself or
herself; for the powers or faculties of the Higher Self must be
brought into activity in order to attain and to hold those summits
of intellectual and spiritual grandeur w'here our Masters them­
selves live. For that, Masterhood, is the end of discipleship;
not, however, that this ideal should be set before us merely as an
end to attain to as something of benefit for one’s own self; because
that very thought is a selfish one and therefore a stumbling in
the Path. It is for the individual's benefit, of course ; yet the
true idea is that everything and every faculty that is in the man
or the woman, in the soul of either, shall be brought out in the
service of all Humanity; for this is the Royal Road, the great
Royal Thoroughfare of self-conquest. It actually is far easier to
follow than is the path of Self, the Road of Shadows. And, as
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 529
we have often said before, the Path of Light, of Self-Conquest and
Growth, leads to the very Heart of Being, to the very Heart of
the Universe; because, as the inner faculties develop, as they
grow and expand under the inspiriting rays of the inner spiritual
sun, they receive and comprehend new knowledges, take wider
and vaster insights into the Secret Chambers of Mother Nature.
Each new insight, each intuition of great things, in its turn opens,
as it were, new doors into Chambers still more vast. The mind
undertakes first to understand; and, finally, knows through
immediate perception the realities of the universe; and this is
Masterhood; and beyond those great Teachers, beyond the
Masters themselves, are still Greater Ones who follow a Path still
more sublime !
But every footstep along that path is a footstep— now please
listen carefully and do not judge before you hear the end—
is a footstep of self-sacrifice— sacrifice joyfully made of the lower
self’s egoisms; the noblest, the most joyful, the most beautiful
thing in the world, because it is the giving up at each such step
of the shackles of the lower or inferior self with its multitudinous
limitations, in order to pass into a greater light. Co-operation
with others in the Great Work in that noble sense— and we mean
by the use of that word, no modern political shibboleth what­
soever— the mental and spiritual co-operation not merely
between Teacher and disciple, but between the disciples them­
selves, and all the hosts of the spiritual beings of the universe, can
come only when the lower selfish self is utterly forgotten ; and it
comes in exact proportion as this inferior self, our personal ego,
is so forgotten, and the Higher Self takes over the reins of our
destiny.
What is our greatest limitation ? What is it that prevents us
from seeing not merely truth itself, but also into futurity and
into the past ? What prevents us from knowing the secrets of
Being ? It is the veils enshrouding the personal self, the con­
centration of our thoughts and ideas around the individual,
around the personal, egoic center. We clasp these veils to our
breast and thereby weave around us a web of maya or illusion,
because we wish for personal benefits, and will them, and want
them for the lower selfish self.
The real process of growth is the exact reverse of this. It is
the casting down of these idols of the personality, the throwing
away of these inner veils, so that, as often said, the light may
come in, that light and that peace, which latter, in the beautiful
words of the Christian ritual, “ passeth all understanding of men ” .
What are some of the requisites of chelaship ? First, perhaps,
Devotion, devotion to an ideal. Have first the ideal, then be
devoted to it, follow it always. It will require your will fully in
530 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
exercise, the spiritual will. Coincidently, perhaps, comes Duty.
Ask any man or woman who sincerely has tried to follow this
Path, whether Duty be such an easy thing, and he will tell you
truly that there is nothing like the right performance of duty,
which brings into the soul such indescribable peace and rest.
Think of what it means to have nothing behind you to undo, no
mistakes of the personality which have to be remedied, rectified !
And this can be done, and easily done. It can be accomplished
by following that “ still old path ” , as the Hindu Upanishads put
it, which leads into the haven of eternal joy, eternal peace,’ and
to that enwrapping consciousness of universal presences and
processes which to the nobler side of the intellect is supreme bliss.
Coincidently again with these two, is the noble virtue of
Loyalty. Can any man succeed in anything unless he be true ?
Fancy a man undertaking a noble work and being told to trust
neither himself nor his fellows I How is it possible to succeed
with one’s own nature running in diverse directions, his very
heart-strings pulled here and there, hither and yon, by the
conflict of selfish desires and by the petty egoisms of his person­
ality ? It cannot be done.
These principles of chelaship rest on no vague or uncertain
foundation, but on the vast experiences of the human race, which
any man or woman can prove by looking within, looking into those
founts of spiritual life, crystal clear and pellucid as the water
of the mountain tarn : where he may see, as in the beautiful old
Mythos of Narcissus, his own reflexion, the reflexion of his own
Divine Self. That can never be done when and as long as the
mind is covered with the dust of its enshrouding veils. It is the
dust of selfish actions, the cravings of these petty egoisms, the
disturbed and untranquil surface of the mind blown upon by the
windy gusts of passion, which unfit it utterly to reflect the Higher
Self— the Companion of Stars. That which reflects the stars,
itself must be in a sense starlike ; and only that which is starlike
in the soul can understand the lessons of the stars.
So far, then, as regards the Teaching- But how about the
Teacher ? What man would go upon a ship captained by another
man in whom he had no confidence at all ? What man would
step into an automobile driven by another man whom he knew
to be drunken ? A trite simile, but a very true one, and directly
applicable to the case in point. Where, then, shall we find these
Teachers, those in whom we can place such trust ? We can,
indeed, learn something from the books, the great scriptures of the
old-time religions, written by great initiates. We can learn much
even from their surface-meanings; but there is a key which
unlocks still deeper meanings in those scriptures, and that key
can be imparted alone by one who knows, a Teacher.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 531
Now where shall we find such a Teacher ? A momentous
question, one, probably, that is asked, would be asked, rather, by
any outsider who might hear us speaking as we do. The Insignia
Majestatis, the signs of spiritual majesty, cannot be mistaken !
Have thetb in your own heart, and, you will know them whenyou see
them., And you can have them in your own heart: and how ?
Simply follow the noble old rules of conduct. Live as ye should,
and ye shall know the Truth, because ye shall see i t ; and, as our
Teachers add, it will come to you naturally ; and you will know
the*Teacher when you see him or her, and you will also know
better than to judge a Teacher by superficial appearances, by the
words of the day, the day’s mere exercises and duties; but,
having that Light in your own heart, at least in some degree, you
will perceive the kindred rays in the heart of the Teacher, and
know him.
Therein lies the meaning of the beautiful saying, ascribed
to Jesus : " l a m the Way and the Truth and the Life ” , and it is
truly so, because no disciple, no man or woman desirous of
leading a better and a nobler life, can put his foot on that Path
until he or she himself or herself becomes it, at least in some
degree.
You know that in olden times there were seven (and ten)
degrees of initiation. Let us speak only of the seven. Of these
seven degrees, three consisted of teachings alone, which formed
the preparation, the discipline, mental and spiritual and psychic
and physical; what the Greeks called the Katharsis or Clean­
sing ; and when the disciple was considered sufficiently cleansed,
purified, disciplined, quiet mentally, tranquil spiritually, then he
was taken into the fourth degree ; and this fourth degree likewise
consisted partly of teachings, but also, as we have pointed out
before, in part of direct personal introduction, by the old mystical
processes, into the processes of the universe, by which Truth was
gained by first-hand personal experience. In other words, to
speak in plain terms, his spirit-soul, his individual consciousness,
was assisted to pass into other planes and realms of being, and to
know and to understand by the process of becoming them. Because
a man, a mind, an understanding, can grasp and see and thereby
know only those things which it itself is.
Think over those words, they are full of meaning and truth.
You can understand nothing that is not in you, nothing. No
man, for instance, who is deprived of the mathematical faculty
can understand even the mere elements of mathematics. Having
this mathematical faculty within himself he understands some­
thing of the meaning of the rules of mathematics. No man can
understand what right action is, what devotion and duty and
loyalty are, unless he has at least something in his own soul of
532 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
devotion and duty and loyalty ; and the more he knows of these
beautiful qualities the more he loves them, the more he wishes to
follow them; and in following them, following them always farther
on, he loves them the more and the more. These truths living
in you, lead you finally to a complete understanding ofthe hearts
of your fellow-men ; giving you an ability to read their charac­
ters, an ability to understand the woes and troubles that they
carry; and the power as well as the ability, and the desire as
well as the power and the ability, to replace those sorrows and
egoisms in the hearts of men with joy and peace and love* and
goodwill.
That is the noble work that is before u s; and that is the
work of the Masters themselves. You may remember that
when Mr. Sinnett was in correspondence, through H. P. Blavatsky
and two or three more of the chelas, with the Masters, he was told
plainly that the last truths, even of the limited sphere of esoteric
knowledge that it was permissible to give to him, could not be
imparted to him, because, as he himself confesses, he had no right
comprehension of the meaning of Universal Brotherhood, and no
love for that noble truth. Apparently, his utmost understanding
of that sublime truth was a form of sentimental unity, or merely
a political co-operation. He had, apparently, no sense of the
meaning inherent in the words, the Spiritual Brotherhood of all
Beings, and, particularly, of the fact that all human beings are
linked together, not merely by the bonds of emotional thought
or feeling, but by the very fabric of the universe itself, all men, as
well as all Beings, springing forth from the inner and spiritual
Sun of the Universe, as its hosts of rays. We all come from one
Source, that Spiritual Sun, and are all builded of the same life-
atoms on all the various planes. It is this interior unity of being
and of consciousness, as well as the exterior union of us all,
which enables us to grasp intellectually and spiritually the
mysteries of the universe ; because not merely ourselves and our
own fellow human beings, but also all other things that are, are
children of the same Parent, Great Mother-Nature, in all her
seven and ten Planes or Worlds of Being.*
After the fourth Degree, there followed the fifth and the sixth
and the seventh initiations, each in turn, and these consisted
of teachings also ; but more and more, as the disciple progressed,
was there developed in him the faculties— and he was helped in
this development more and more largely as he advanced farther—
there was developed in him the faculties, still farther and more
deeply to penetrate beyond the veils of maya or Illusion ; until,
having passed the seventh or last initiation of all of the " mani­
fest ” initiations, if we may call them that, he became one of
those truly called Supermen whom we call the Mahatmans, great
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 533
soul-spirits, whose very nature is Magnanimity— used here in the
old Latin sense of Great Souled-ness— a Latin word meaning
exactly what Mahdtmaship does in the Sanskrit.
Loyalty to the Teacher, Devotion to the Teacher, the complete
fulfilling %
of all Duties to the Teacher, is the other side of this
subject. Devotion, Duty, and Loyalty to Truth and its behests,
on the one side : unfailing, unchanging, never varying; and
the same Virtues living in our souls towards the Teacher whom
we have chosen, is the other side ; because that Teacher has
given us inner light; yea, more, has given us inner life, inner
life in a very real and practical sense, and not merely in a mystical
one ; because, by the processes of the ancient Schools, such a
Teacher is enabled to carry the disciple, if uninterrupted in his
studies, even over the gulf of what men call physical death ; is
enabled so to awaken the dormant powers of the spirit-soul in him
that they function as it were automatically. The giver of inner
Light and the giver of inner Life : such is the Teacher. How
rarely is this recognised or even known in the Occident today.
This explains in part why the egoistic and so-called individualistic
Occidental, self-satisfied in his blind folly, hurls against the
devotion of Teacher and Pupil of the ancient Eastern schools,
the devotion of the disciples to their Teacher and of the latter to
them, such unkindly and insulting epithets, calling such devotion
mental servitude, calling it mental subservience, speaking of it
in terms of mockery, proving, as said before, that the critic
understands it not, because that noble virtue is not in his own
soul in the sense we mean. How great and far-reaching is his
spiritual loss !
There is something so beautiful in Devotion and Loyalty and
Duty, faithfully carried out, that all nations of men, in all times
and in all countries, have placed those three qualities of the soul
in the very forefront of manly virtues and of womanly virtues.
I venture to say that if we follow these three noble virtues faith­
fully, undismayed by the many mistakes that we may make, and
our courage never dampened by the falls that we may have, but
always rising again to the battle— I venture to say that as time
goes on, easier and easier, smoother and smoother, will become
for us the Path of Wisdom and Peace, and ever more joyful.
Fidelity is comprised in these things. Semper Fidelis, runs
the beautiful Latin motto, Always Faithful! What loveliness of
thought there is in this ! What man or woman can fail to despise
the weakness in the weakling, the unfaithfulness in the unfaithful
one ! Indeed, such moral obliquity is a human characteristic ;
even the beasts have it not. Show me an unfaithful beast!
It is only in us men that this petty vileness has its existence. And
what can we learn from this little fact ? Simply this : that we
534 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
have, in addititin to the innate love of the beast for its master,
the divine gift of self-conscious intellection ; and in too many of
us it is weakly allowed to remain uncultivated and undeveloped;
so that we have but two or three feeble glimmerings or rays from
the Spiritual Sun, so to say. And these two or three* or more
feeble glimmerings are just enough to put "sin ” , to usp the
old word, into our hearts. They are just enough to make us see
and realize our self-importance, but not enough to iflake us see
the Truth and our inherent spiritual Brotherhood; and here is
where the human being fails and falls— the so-called “ Secret of
Satan ” .
What, then, is the remedy ? More light. What is the remedy
for folly ? Wisdom. What is the remedy for ignorance ? More
knowledge. With more light, with the flooding of the inner
nature by the rays of the Spiritual Sun within, these feeble
glimmerings and rays grow and expand, until finally the whole
inner nature is deluged with this wonderful Inner Light that the
Mystics of all ages have talked o f; and then unfaithfulness
becomes impossible, utterly impossible. No man will sit down,
child-like, and spend his time casting up sums in simple addition
— “ two and two make four ” . He has passed that childish stage.
He goes to higher things; and he looks upon the unfaithfulnesses
and the failings of his less developed brothers with compassion
if not with condemnation of the weakling himself. These weaklings
are precisely like little children with their small sums in arith­
metic. They are precisely like mentally undeveloped people.
They have only a few poor glimmerings or rays in them of that
glorious Luminary within. Who wants to be of these ? Surely,
neither you nor I !
Now there is the actual psychologic fact. It is not a trope,
or figure of speech ; it is not a metaphor. That is what the crimi­
nal is in his inner nature: I mean the really criminal man or
woman— he or she who chooses evil-doing from love of it. That
is what the poorly developed man has in him : just these poor
feeble glimmerings of the inner Sun, which are all that reach his
undeveloped mind: just enough to make him see something,
and to recognise, as he thinks, his own self-importance. But
when the Greater Light, when the flooding, the deluging, of the
inner nature with the larger illumination comes, then we see that
all there is of us, in the sense of this petty self, is but a reflexion
of something nobler ; and all our natures, our entire natures, are
opened, when that realization comes, to an alliance with this
inner and higher and nobler Self, the Spiritual Sun of our inner
being.
C H A P T E R X L V I I I
THE HEARf OF THE UNIVERSE. THE WAY TO PEACE, BLISS, UNDER­
STANDING, IS WITHIN. THE GREAT QUEST : KNOW THYSELF *
.
THE WHOLE SECRET OF INITIATION. OUR RESPONSIBILITY :
ETHICAL VALUES AND THE LAWS OF THE UNIVERSE : HARMONY.
There is a road, steep and thorny, and beset with perils of every kind, but yet
a road, and it leads to the heart of the Universe. I can tell you how to find
Those who will show you the secret gateway that leads inward only, and closes
fast behind the neophyte for evermore. There is no danger that dauntless courage
cannot conquer ; there is no trial that spotless purity cannot pass through ;
there is no difficulty that strong intellect cannot surmount. For those who win
onward, there is reward past all telling : the power to bless and serve humanity.
For those who fail, there are other lives in which success may come.
H. P. Blavatsky.
The ancient narrow path that stretches far away
Has been touched by me, has been found by me.
By it the wise, the knowers of Brahma, go up
Hence to the heavenly world, released.
Brihad-Aranyaka Upanishad [-4.4.8].
T h e w ay to final freedom is w ithin th y Se l f .
That way begins and ends outside of Self.
The Voice of the Silence, “ The Two Paths " (H. P. Blavatsky).
The great secret is Sympathy for the souls of men, the Will to press forward
to that which is True. K atherine Tingley.
T
H IS evening's call for a resum ption o f our esoteric
studies was in one sense u n expected ; and w ith the
T eacher's perm ission, instead o f follow ing the thread
o f our discourses where th ey were left off at our last
m eeting, I am going to ask you to com e, all of us together in
th ou gh t and in spirit* into an atm osphere o f m agical beau ty, into
an atm osphere where the roots o f our being live, and w hence is
draw n the sustenance, b oth spiritual and intellectual, from w hich
the interm ediate nature o f m an, and also m an as he appears in
the everyd ay affairs o f life, finds its nourishm ent, its guidance,
and its direction, and all the finer things w hich m ake m an man.
In this spiritual and intellectual atm osphere, I refer first to
som e elem entary p ropositions o f the A ncient W isd om w hich we
all know b y heart, and the first o f w hich is that all m en, in their
inm ost spiritual essence, are n ot m erely in kinship, but in an u tter
and inseparable union. This does n ot m ean that the hosts o f
M onads w ho are the spiritual portions o f m en, one M onad to one
535
536 FUNDAM ENTALS OF TH E ESOTERIC PH ILO SO PH Y
m an, are bu t one M o n a d ; bu t, as you all m ust know , it m eans
that the M onads them selves also have a spiritual side, and that
that spiritual side or nature of each one has its roots, finds its
ultim ate fountain of being, in the transcendent D ivine in w hich,
speaking in general term s, we live and m ove and have our being.
T herefore through each M onad, if we so w ill it, run the stream s
o f intellectual om niscence, w hich stream s are transm itted to us
m en even through the beclouded veils of the interm ediate nature ;
for w e derive b oth that spiritual life and that intellectual om ­
niscience : in other w ords, bliss and pure consciousness and phre
understanding : from the D ivine w hich is at the heart or core of
every m an and of every w om an ; yes, and also at the heart and
the core of the beings beneath us, though th ey as yet have n ot
evolved the sensitive vehicle w hich can translate those sublim e
and supernal m ysteries into com prehensible th ou gh t-form through
their lack o f the necessary organ of th ou gh t— w hich in them has
n ot yet expressed itself as a self-conscious faculty.
The hum an beings above us, I m ean those w ho are the chelas
o f the Teachers, and the Teachers them selves, and the Teachers
o f the Teachers, are each one respectively a stage nearer than
th e preceding class to that D ivine, a degree or a step higher in
the B u ddh ic H ierarchy, in the H ierarchy o f Com passion, o f w hich
w e have so often spoken before in these m eetings under the
T each er's direction.
L et us recollect that w e are the outm ost rank or ring o f that
B u dd h ic H ierarchy o f Com passion, and it depends upon each one
o f us, n ot on ly upon the life that we live, bu t upon the ideas that
w e h old inshrined in our m inds and in our hearts, to h ow great a
degree we m ay becom e faithful transm itters and m anifestors o f
the divine stream s from that supernal source. W h en w e can
transm it these in their native crystalline purity, w hen our m inds
becom e transm itters so lim pid and clear, so high in their aspira­
tions and so unadulterate in their natures that we can con sciou sly
receive and pass on these life-giving stream s, the stream s o f
understanding from the fountain o f the U niversal Life, then
indeed we are saviors o f m en, saviors o f our fellow s ; and this is
the goal to w hich our Teachers call us ; this is the end and purpose
o f our m eetings here in this our Tem ple o f Peace in esoteric
con clave, in order that, heart to heart and m ind to m ind, w e
m ay draw closer together in bon d s o f m ore strict and m ore
stringent fraternal union, n ot m erely w elcom ing w ith arm s ou t­
stretched and w ith the ancient kiss o f broth erh ood the new ­
com ers in to our ranks, bu t b y giving them an exam ple o f w hat w e
have had the op p ortu n ity ourselves to obtain. Thus are we
exem plars o f the lessons we have learned here and through our
aspirations and m editations in p r iv a te ; and th ereby w e begin
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 537
that noblest of duties, the saving of our fellows through our own
individual subordination to the laws of our Order and Universal
Brotherhood.
For after all, is not this aim the one which the Teachers have
told us is the life-work of themselves, and should be the life-work
of us at the present time, their chelas farthest from them ? It is.
In some countries they speak of a Christ; in other countries they
speak of a Buddha ; elsewhere they speak of one who has found
the Way, the Path, who has found Tao. And in each case the
reference is to one who has so completely subordinated his
individuality to the universe that he thereby becomes the faithful
transmitter of the spiritual life of which we have spoken.
All these various names and titles mean the same thing. What
is this meaning ? It is that the mind and the heart, the under­
standing and the consciousness, and therefore the example and
the life, are all at one, all in unity working along the same path­
way leading to the sublime goal at which we have hinted; and
this life so led brings not only to the heart of each one of us a
peace and a joy which pass all ordinary human understanding,
but it likewise enables us to give that peace and that joy to others.
It is through and by the lessons that we learn in our daily life
that come to us the opportunities of setting our feet upon this
pathway. As all of us know, who have been many years in the
work of the Theosophical Movement, under our three Teachers,
H. P. Blavatsky, and W. Q. Judge, and Katherine Tingley, the
noblest aim that we can have is to fit ourselves for this life-work.
Now, how is it done ? Is it by looking for mere mysteries and
for weird tests and expected trials ? What kind of a test or trial
should such be, at a time when one is wrought up to a pitch of
exaltation and high expectation so that in a certain sense he is
temporarily abnormal and therefore has a transitory, but never­
theless an abnormal strength to meet such tests or trials. Such
would hardly be tests or trials at all and hence would be of very
little profit and very little worth. The testing comes in the
affairs of life that concern us daily, in the duties which we perform
faithfully or perhaps unfaithfully, in never leaving the ranks
for personal or selfish purposes ; for here we are tested in every
part of our being, and at every moment, and in the most un­
expected and most unforeseen places, and at the most unexpected
and most unforeseen times.
Our rejoicing passeth all ordinary comprehension when a
Comrade, through long and faithful service and unswerving
devotion which leads to inner development, which takes him far
along the path, follows that still small path which leadeth to the
Heart of the Universe ; for we feel that what he then has attained
we also may attain and should attain and must ultimately attain
538 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
if we do as he did; it is a matter for joy to all of us when this
happens. And then standing more closely shoulder to shoulder,
we try by our united efforts to fill the vacancy that he has left
until another Comrade joins our ranks for this wonderful Work.
I have just spoken of the pathway which leadeth to the Heart
of the Universe. Now what is that Heart ? Is it “ God” ? What
god can we conceive of which is not, after all, the noblest figuration
of our own imagination ? N ay; such a god after all would be
but a name, a breath, and nothing more, for it is a conception
originating in our own minds. We do not mean by the phrase,
“ The Heart of the Universe ” , some divine being who after all
is but an aggregate, a collection, a synthesized unity of the
various individuals of the hierarchy of which it is the controlling
head. We do not mean this, for what sense would it have since,
as we have so often pointed out, these hierarchical heads are
more numerous than the sands on the shores of an infinite ocean,
for they are infinite in number ; and how should any one such be
the Heart of the Universe ? Nay, that is not our meaning. We
mean by the “ Heart of the Universe ” , that Consciousness, that
Light, that Understanding, that Nature whose essence is bliss,
which is the life of the universe— not a personal life but an im­
personal life, from and through which the Universe draws the
forces which infill it, which forces are the gods, the spiritual beings,
the playing of whose vitality we sense even through the shell of
the physical world, and therefrom take the term so familiar to us,
the forces working in matter.
This Consciousness, this Light, this Understanding, this Nature
whose essence is bliss, are collectively what we mean by the
Heart of the Universe, a heart which is nowhere in particular,
because everywhere ; called the “ heart ” only because it is the
secret center in each one of us, the core of our being, and which is
not only the source but also the passage-way, or the canal, or
the channel, through which those supernal forces of the Divine
do pass into u s; and, reduced to the last analysis, we are they
and they are we, because the recondite and secret fountains of
our being are all these things.
You know the teaching of the old Eastern philosophy, the
Vedanta of Hindusthan, which in this respect is likewise the
teaching of the Northern Buddhism, and is also ours, to this
effect: The universe is one vast organism, an organism which is
composite of organisms still smaller, still more minute, not
located in any particular place but spread throughout the spaces,
indefinitely in all directions, and likewise inwardly and outwardly,
in the inner worlds as well as in the outer worlds. And these are
full of these still smaller, still more minute organisms, which in
their aggregate form the vast organism of the cosmos.
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 539
I fancy that after all it is only a figure of speech to speak of
the universe as one vast organism, for the reason that any organ­
ism, in strict logic, must be a limited entity, and the thought
that we are endeavoring to express is dealing with That which
is limitless in all senses. Hence the expression “ vast organism ”
is a metaphor, a trope, a manner of speech in order to express an
idea almost too subtil and high to put in ordinary language.
This vast organism of the cosmos then is an organism only by
philosophic licence, so to say. It is an organism in the sense in
which the human race is an organism, formed, as the latter is,
of individuals, composite of men, men who are minuter organisms
of the corporate body we call humanity, of men whose bodies in
their turn are composite of entities still more minute ; and these
entities still more minute are again composed of entities still
smaller than they ; and so forth indefinitely.
Let our minds pass in thought in the reverse direction towards
macrocosmic spheres, and there also do we find the same law of
unity in diversity, prevailing everywhere. We may reach in our
imagination an ultimate point and say, This is the Universe ;
but by a still stronger effort and looking beyond that point not
only do we sense other universes still more remote; but our
instinct, our intuition, alike tell us that through these more
distant aggregates, as through our own universe, play the same
deific forces that we know, the same divine energies, the same
driving urge to progress, the same call to come up higher. Having
the same forces playing through them, their brother-universes
or sister-universes, if you w ill; and there are indefinite numbers
of such, incomputable hosts of them, hosts visible and invisible,
hosts without and within. So that all that we can mean, when
using the phrase, “ the universe is one vast organism ” , is to carry
our thought ever onwards and to realize that it is boundless space,
without limitations, without frontiers, without ending-places.
Let us remember, furthermore, that any such organism exists
only in periods of its own manvantara ; for manvantara is a word
which we may by analogy employ for both the great and the
small. There may b5 a manvantara of a universe as well as a
manvantara of an aggregate of universes; nor does any such
universe, nor does any such aggregate of universes, necessarily
have its period of manvantara or its period of pralaya con­
temporaneously with all other aggregate bodies.
Let us be cautious about this. When we speak of “ universal
manvantara ” we mean the manvantara of our own cosmic
aggregate; but another universe may be in pralaya while we are
in manvantara ; many other universes may be in pralaya, or in
manvantara, while we may be conversely in manvantara or
pralaya.
540 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Let us be watchful over our thoughts, keeping close guard over
our minds, for in this manner we shall never allow our mind to
crystallize into a mere succession of phrases and thus make of the
thought a dogma. We learn much by thus watching ourselves
and by thus studying ourselves, and by reaching everw
inwards
into our own spiritual natures, guided by the teaching which our
Masters have given to us through our three leaders, as they have
construed those teachings and interpreted them and explained
them; and the essence, or, so to say, the keynote of all these
teachings is that the way to light and to life and to peace and to
bliss and to understanding is within ourselves; and we obtain
these wonderful things by reaching or striving ever farther inwards,
inwards, inwards, endlessly. For the farther we reach into
ourselves, so to say, the farther we follow that pathway leading
inwards, the more we become conscious of still greater things,
still wider visions, and the pathway thus followed becomes space
itself.
Is this pathway a different path from that which leadeth out­
wards, outwards, outwards, still farther outwards to spaces and
cosmoi which we can intuitively sense as existing beyond the
boundaries of our own universe ? No, it is the same path, exactly
the same path ; it is only our mind of matter in which we of
necessity must work on this our present period of evolution, that
conceives of the mysteries of consciousness as occupying space, or
as following lines of directional expansion. All these things exist
in our consciousness, not along any material directions ; it is
consciousness which understandeth, and consciousness is neither
forwards nor backwards, nor to the right nor to the left, nor up
nor down, but is. It is all things at all times, and because it is
everywhere, it is nowhere in particular.
Where then abides this consciousness which is in each one of
us ? It is within, it is found by reaching inwards ; it is the Great
Searching, the Great Quest; it is the seeking the light; it is like­
wise the finding i t ; it is seeking the life ; it is the finding of it.
This consciousness should be sought for by turning inwards
therefore ; yet when we say that the path is inwards, it is,
after all, but a figure of speech ; it is a trope ; it is a metaphor ;
it is a manner of verbal expression, in order to convey an idea, and
we must not let our minds crystallize around a mere figure of
speech.
Do you remember when the Teacher requested me to speak
at a former meeting here, in this our Temple of Peace, on the
nature of the ancient initiations ; under her specific direction we
then called your attention to the very profound truth that there
could be no initiations unless there were the awakened conscious­
ness in the postulant or neophyte. What is initiation ? The
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 541
word itself really means a beginning, the first steps of a beginner,
and there are many beginnings. There is the beginning for the
man of the world ; there is the beginning for the true chela ; there
is the beginning for the Mahatman; there is the beginning for
his Teaclfer, and so on indefinitely. It is the opening of the
course for development of a beginner, and he who guides his
first steps will do so with much the same care and attention that
a mother uses in guiding and watching the first steps of her
little one.
Itds an old Oriental saying, and a very beautiful one, too, that
the initiator is both father and mother to his disciple, and more
even than this : because whereas the father and the mother give
the life of the physical body, and that body itself for the purpose
of the incoming soul, and also give the love and the care and the
attention necessary to save the child from dangers and perils in
our physical world: the initiator in very truth gives you your
soul, because he awakens it for you, acquaints you with yourself,
opens the portals of your understanding, leads you forth to
inspect and understand the universe surrounding us and the
mysteries which it comprises ; in brief, the Teacher, the initiator,
leads you inwards so that you may know yourself— in other
words, as just hinted, watches over and attends to the growth
and development of your expanding consciousness.
Tv&Oi a a v ro v , said the Greeks: “ Know Thyself ” , an injunction
carved over the temple of Apollo at Delphi; this mandate
comprises in two words the whole secret of initiation and of the
initiations, because it comprises the path which the expanding
consciousness follows in its growth ; Know Thyself.
“ Thyself ”— what is it ? It is consciousness ; it is also the
" Heart of the Universe ” . Thyself, that self which is the same
in thee and in me, in you and in all others, which is not different
in any one of us, as compared with any other one of us. It is the
ultimate self, the spiritual over-soul; and therefore it is the one
self, the Heart of the Universe; it is the consciousness in you
which says simply 0 I am ” , and that same consciousness is in me
and in all others : in the Teacher, in the chelas of the Teachers,
in the Teachers of the Teachers, in the Silent Watcher of our
supernal sphere— that over-self is the same in all entities com­
prised in any hierarchy.
But while that over-self is the same in you, and in me, and in
all that is, not different anywhere from what it is anywhere else ;
yet this does not comprise all there is of us psychologically speak­
ing. There is something else within us not different from the
over-soul but a ray of that over-soul so to say, and this something
else in each one of us is the individual ego : that part in each of us
which says not merely “ I am ” , but “ I am I ", and not you.
542 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
Think over this psychological mystery as it is to those who are
not well acquainted with the Ancient Wisdom ; for truly one of
the most wonderful mysteries of the Ancient Wisdom, of
esotericism lies in a correct understanding of this psychological
mystery.
In order to make my meaning more clear, please remember that
while it is a perfectly true statement that the inner nature of man
is the seed of his individual consciousness, that consciousness is
but a reflexion so to say, of the Universal Consciousness which
abides in all other entities whatsoever and wheresoever they may
be. It is quite true that we reach into this universal consciousness
and partake of its universality by following the path leading
inwards ; but this is not a procedure of the consciousness; and
the mind should not be allowed to crystallize around any idea of
mere directional expansion.
A man, by considering the starry orbs which he sees over his
head at night, may as easily follow the path inwards as another
man may by sitting in a comer with his attention concentrated
on his navel or the tip of his nose, in the manner of some exoteric
Hindu yogis, so-called. The truth is that it is an arousing of the
consciousness to self-understanding, and to developing it towards
the universal.
Therefore, once you begin that undertaking, and once you
begin to follow that path, you will find that mere directional
expansions are but words. The consciousness itself will give you
the meaning of these things, and such meaning is always away from
the directional limitations or particularities of the material world.
It is a growth of consciousness actually rather than a following
of any path so-called in any particular direction. As a man’s
consciousness expands he realises that it is growing; but he will
probably smile if he hears one whose consciousness has not
expanded equivalently, talking of any particular direction in
space as being that which the pathway towards the Light follows.
This relative I, this ego-self, as we have pointed out in former
lectures, this individual I in each one of us, is not the Heart of
the Universe; but it is rooted in the Heart of the Universe,
therefore rooted in the Universal life, in the Universal Conscious­
ness, for it is a ray of i t ; it is that part of us which, by the magic
of evolution, by the wondrous magic which the gods work in their
deific energies, forming and framing the cosmos as a wonderful
web of being— it is that part of us, I say, which grows from un-self­
consciousness to self-understanding, to self-consciousness.
In the vast womb of eternities past it began its career as an
un-self-conscious god-spark ; and its destiny is to flower out in
due course as a self-conscious god, becoming so through the
unwrapping or unfolding or evolving of the potentialities which
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 543
are latent or inherent in its very nature as a spark of the universe.
This is spiritual evolution, and can be considered as a building up
of a god from the forces and faculties and powers inherent in its
own self, the pouring forth of the latent or sleeping energies which
intrinsically belong to i t ; yes, a self-conscious god, as it will
finally become, infilled with and by the Heart of the Universe,
which is the Universal Self. It is the building up of a god through
and by meins of the ego-self, its periodic mirror or reflexion.
As our Teacher expresses it in her most beautiful invocation,
whieh we regularly use in our Temple meetings :
“ O h ! M y D iv in it y ! thou dost blend w ith the earth and fashion for
th yself tem ples of m igh ty power.
O h ! M y D iv in ity ! thou livest in the heart-life of all things, and dost
radiate a Golden L igh t th at shineth forever and doth illum ine even
the darkest corners of the earth.
O h ! M y D iv in ity ! blend thou w ith m e th at from the corruptible I m ay
become In corru p tible; . th at from im perfection I m ay becom e
Perfection ; th at from darkness I m ay go forth in L ig h t.”
The Universal Self is the Heart of the Universe, for these two
phrases are but two manners of expressing the same thing ; it is
the Source of our being; it is also the Goal whither we are all
marching, we and the hierarchies above us as well as the hier­
archies and the entities which compose them inferior to u s ; all
come from the same Ineffable Source, the Heart of Being, the
Universal Self, pass at one period of their evolutionary journey
through the stage of humanity, gaining thereby self-conscious­
ness or the ego-self, the " I am I ” , and they find it, as they
advance along this evolutionary path, expanding gradually into
universal consciousness— an expansion which never has an end,
because the Universal Consciousness is endless, limitless, bound­
less.
Yea, in very truth, it is all a most wondrous mystery, using the
word “ mystery ” here in its Greek sense of something secret and
wonderful. We leave our deific source as un-self-conscious god-
sparks, as I have already so expressed it, and our destiny is to
become self-conscious‘gods, thereafter taking a direct part in the
vast Cosmic Labor.
But is this the limit which we reach, thereafter to go no farther
ahead ? Do we then reach the frontiers of consciousness-space,
thereafter finding or discovering nothing still grander or greater
to know or to be ? No indeed, the truth is the exact reverse of
this. The consciousness expands gradually, and the more it
expands the more it learns, and that expanding is timeless, outside
of time and space. It expands forever.
We have spoken of the hierarchies above us, that is to say, of
the hosts of hierarchies who have passed through the human
544 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
stage and who are marching along their own respective evolu­
tionary pathways towards still greater destinies ; but let us not
forget that beneath us there are other hosts of hierarchies
composed of lives innumerable, uncounted hosts of them, trailing
after us, consciously or unconsciously looking up to#
us as we
look up to those who have preceded us, even as we have trailed
after, in former manvantaras, them who are now ahead of us,
whom we look up to as gods or spiritual beings, or* to use our
own beloved Theosophical term, adopted from Buddhism, Dhyan-
Chohans.
Of the hosts of these small and inferior entities who are trailing
after us, one portion of them is comprised in the multitude of
minute, even infinitesimal, lives which compose our bodies : that
is to say the physical body, the astral body, the mental body, the
intellectual body, and the spiritual body, which aggregate hosts
composing these respective bodies, being of different grades or in
different stages in evolution, and each such host furthermore
interlocking with each other and with all others, and with
different hierarchies of the world around us— all the hierarchies
composing these various bodies of man's septenary constitution,
together form the composite unity through which man's inmost
self works, because in them, in another sense than that used by
Paul of the Christians, we live and move and have our inferior
being.
What is this inmost self ? I have already said what it is this
evening, and on many another occasion here in this Temple. It
is that part of us by which we conjoin with the heart of the
universe— in very truth it is the Heart of the Universe itself,
limited only by the individualized expression of our spiritual
nature ; and this spiritual nature itself is the source of our ego.
Let us try briefly this evening once more to sketch the con­
struction or rather, perhaps, constitution of our inner nature, and
I select us men as examples because we have developed up to the
point where self-consciousness is beginning to manifest itself;
and thereby we may illustrate more clearly and more easily how
evolution proceeds.
First, then, is the Universal Self, the Heart of Being, which is
the same in all of us. This universal self pours out its energies
through the highest in man's constitution, which in each one of
us is the Monad, our inner spiritual god. The Monad working
through the various spheres, builds up man's intermediate nature,
which is the ego-self; and this ego-self, as its consciousness
expands away from personality and limitations towards univer­
sality spontaneously enters upon greater and ever greater spheres
of life and activity, until this ego becomes in its turn a fully self-
conscious expression of its inspiriting Monad, which is but another
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY 545
way of saying that it re-becomes that Monad itself, plus the
experiences that the ego has acquired from absorbing the aroma
of the various lives which it has had.
When the ego has thus re-become Monadic, in other words has
become a Monad itself— its own inspiriting Monad meanwhile
having itself advanced to spheres of life and activity still more
sublime than it formerly had— the ego-Monad then assumes a
cosmic nature, and in its turn evolves an intermediate self or
intermediate selves, which works or which work through our
lower natures, helping thereby the lives beneath us and in us,
in whom we live and move and have our inferior being, as I
have already said. It is through these inferior lives composing
our intermediate or lower natures that the ego-self finds its fields
of self-expression ; and when it finally becomes an egoic Monad,
it becomes to the hosts of lives on these intermediate and lower
spheres their divine over-soul, the Hierarch of their Hierarchy.
Thus then, as a parting thought, Comrades, let us realize the
responsibility— spiritual, mental, psychical, emotional, astral,
and physical— which is ours. And when I say “ ours ” I mean
ours as self-conscious beings, egos. We are responsible for what
these intermediate and lower lives undergo to a very large extent;
we realize that as we impress them, so will they self-express
themselves, until they have attained self-consciousness in their
turn ; we realize that we give them the initial impetus towards
evolutionary unfolding, and that as we set their faces so to say,
so will they travel the path.
We realize, finally, that ethical values are in human life, and
in the connexions that I have just hinted at what the laws of the
universe are in the cosmos. Both signify harmony ; both signify
consistency in action ; both signify an identic source ; and both
point to the fact that both we and they, these lower entities, are
treading the path which they who have gone before us have
trodden. As I have said before, this treading of the path is a
growth of consciousness, it is an expansion of the conscious under­
standing ; and hence it is that these entities ahead of us are where
they are, because, having trodden that path, they have come to
know.
The Buddhists have a most beautiful expression to illustrate
this fact of the common nature of those who have gone before
ourselves, and those who are coming after us. They speak of a
Buddha as one who is a Tathagata, a Sanskrit expression com­
pounded of two words meaning either “ thus come ” or " thus
gone ", for the Sanskrit is susceptible of either translation ; but
the meaning is identical, signifying one who has followed the
inward way, the inner pathway, the still small path coming down,
so to say, from the Universal Self, passing through the human
546 FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
constitution onward until it disappears again in the heart of
being from which we came.
All of you are that pathway. I mean that each one of you men
and women is for yourself that pathway ; there is no other for
any one of you, because it is yourself travelling along the path of
understanding consciousness, and reaching ultimately its evolu­
tionary goal, when you become a God.
INDEX
Absolute, defyiition of, 151-2
evolution of the, 154
-matter, 192, 204
S^t, Chit, Ananda, 157
-self, 192
the, 204
Addm, 85, 188
Addm-Qadmdn, 31, 69
Adhibhdta, defined, 270
Adhidaivata, defined, 270
Adhydtman, defined, 270
Adi-Buddha, 198-9, 234
Adi-Buddhi, 351
Swabhavat, 164
Adi-tattwa, 298, 350-1
Mschylus, 216
Akdha, 497-8
Swabhavat, 164
AkdSa-tattwa, 350-1-2
Amrita-Yana, the right-hand path, 156,
158
Ancient Mysteries, 38
Angels, “ fallen ", 126
hierarchy of, 67-8
Animal, definition of, 63
man is an, 199
Animals, planets are, 63
Annihilation, of kama-rupa, 187
of " lost souls ", 184, 186, 195
Anupapddaka-tattwa, 297, 350-1
Apas-tattwa, 350, 353
Apollonius of Tyana, 221, 237, 241, 266
Apostolic Succession, 244, 246
Aquinas, Thomas, 58, 420
Arc, downward, acceleration of de­
velopment on, 520
Shadowy and Luminous, 90, 92, 111,
29b, 332, 350
Astrology, ancient and n^odem, 207,
224, 486
Atheism defined, 436
Atlantean Race, 296
Atlantis, sinking of, 304
Atma-Buddhi, 166
Atma-Vidyd, self-knowledge, 262
the seventh " Jewel ", 162, 179
Atman, a trinity, 257
a u n iv e r s a l p r in c ip le , 268
o u r , b e lo n g s t o F o u r t h K o s m ic
P la n e , 393
our link with the Unutterable, 2
root of our selfhood, 64-5
Atom, adventures of an, 489
bearer of lives, 196, 301
Atom, boundless Kosmos latent in
every, 393
definition of, 316, 324-5
its own Logos, 205
Kosmic, 439
Life-, 462, 492-3
miniature Solar System, 300, 319
Science and the, 196, 332
solar, 50
spiritual, 31
un-self-conscious God-sparks, 132
various meanings of, 427
Atoms, hierarchy of the, 217
Supreme self of the, 217
Attica, mysteries celebrated in, 232
Auric egg, 70, 102, 114, 117, 118, 402
Avatdras, 266
come at specified periods, 262
doctrine of, explained, 230, 235-6
Racial Buddhas and, 273
Avichi, 116, 169, 415
lowest hell, 143
Avichi-nirvdna, 125, 186
destiny of lost souls, 169
Being, Ancients recognised reality of,
182
Divine, 52
evolutionary drama of, 493
germ of, 31
of the Solar System, 439
Plato’s definition of, 45
Primordial Elementary, 331
the illimitable Void, 375
Universal, 65
Bernard of Clairvaux, 218
Bhagavad Gitd, definition of Sanskrit
terms, 270
Bible, esoteric teaching hidden in, 6-7
Biela’s comet, 50
Blavatsky, H. P., crippled psychically,
361-2
Bodhi, 22
Bodhisattva, 241
a Christ on earth, 272
definition of, 261
of a globe, 234
Boundless, exemplifies the Void, 218
limitless aggregate of all Hierarchies,
180
the, 29-34, 101 >2 I 7
Brahma, breathing of, 498
Brahmd, 268
Day of, 93» 142, 234
547
IN D E X
548
Brahmd, has lived half his life, 119,
404
seven days of, 296
Brahmd’s Egg, 180, 432, 434, 439
consists of Lokas and Talas, 432
Kosmic atom, 427
the solar system, 433
Brahman, the Unmanifest Logos, 33-4
Brahmdnda, or Egg of Brahma, 180
Brahmd-Prakriti, 31, 33-5
Kosmic soul, 226
Buddha, 22-3, 314-5, 327, 446
a, higher than an Avat&ra, 237, 273
a Causal, for each round, 234
a Racial, for each Root-Race, 235,
239
ego of Avatara supplied by a, 235,
273
Buddha, Lord, 189, 200, 241, 332, 521
remained on earth as a Nirm&nakaya,
236
summit of the Hierarchy of Sages,
361
Buddhas, 200
Celestial Hierarchy of, 234
headgear of, 425-6
Pratyeka, 156
Buddhism, Eye and Heart doctrines of,
190
Esoteric, 189
most spiritual of all religions, 238
Buddhists, Theosophists are not, 190
Budha, 211
Builders, hierarchy of, 313, 439
C&sar, Julius, 208, 209
Calendar, the Roman, 208
changing of, 223
Cataclysm, coming Racial, 239
Causal Buddha, for each round, 234
Celestial Bodhisattva, for each globe,
261
Chaos, Theos and Kosmos, 316
Chela-life, the, 473, 515-6
Cherubim, definition of, 68
Chhdndogya-Upanishad quoted, 23-5
Chohans, 162
Christ, 107
man is a potential, 133
Christian teachings, inadequacy of, 68
Christianity, derived from Neo-Pytha­
gorean and Neo-Platonic systems,
420
Christmas, 222-3
Christos, the, 31, 133, 384
Chronology, Esoteric, 206
Cicero passed through the Eleusinian
rites, 366
Circle, divided by twice curved line
(diagram), 406
Circulations of the Kosmos, 407, 461,
506
Coadunition and Consubstantiality, 502
Comets, periodic, may become planets,
47. 50
" Conservation of Energy ”, theory of,
open to criticism, 507
Cosmic Egg, symbol of the, 35, 1x4
Cosmoqony, Gods that direoft, 49
Creation, emanation and evolution, 83
Cronn, symbolism of the, 216, 217, 426
Crucifixion, origin of the, 'in the
Mysteries, 425
the, 221-2
Cycle, 31, 35, 253, 295, 49°
opening of a secret, 211
Septenary Planetary, 234
Daivi-Prakriti, 384, 392
gives light to the nebulae, 42, 44, 50
the Second Logos, 259
Dante, his heavens, hells and pur­
gatories, 145-7
Darkness, a form of vibration, 55
Dawn of Manifestation, 49
Days of the Week, and the planets, 212,
281
Death, the Mystic, 216, 222
the second, 141
Deathless Watcher, 220
Demi-urgos, the aggregate of the
Dhyàn-Chohans, 271
Devachan, 415, 526
degrees in, 141-2
for the personal soul, 43
Devas, real nature of, 105
Devil, God and the, 155
Dharma-kdya, 198
Dhydni-Buddha, 198-200
Dhydni-Buddhas, are the Architects,
439
seven, 234
were once men, 332
Dhydn-Chohan, man an embryo, 199
Dhydn-Chohans, 60, 63, 113
agents of Cosmic Laws, 121
and Dhyàni-Buddhas, 286, 381
and Pitris, 351
do not guide Nature, 334
Lords of Meditation, 183, 352
seven classes of Monads followed
from Lunar chain, 134
thought of, reflects Universal Idea­
tion, 271
three classes of, 199
Diagoras, 216
Diagrams and Paradigms, use of, 38
Dionysius, founder of Christian mystic­
ism, 293
his “ Hierarchy ”, 67
writings of, 57, 58, 67
Divine Dynasties, 222
Double stars explained, 455
Downward Arc, acceleration of develop­
ment on, 520
Duality, origination of, 31
INDEX 549
Earth, not the “ best possible world ”,
135
Earth-chain, evolutionary development
of, 484, 485
Easter, 222-3
Ecclesiastes, Book of, 187
esoteric teaching in, 188
Ego, difference between, and self, 131-3
Divfne, 205
is between self and soul, 132
re-incarnating, 205
Egos, diagram of, and souls in man, 203
Eir^tein, 301, 320
Electricity and magnetism are matter,
3i 9
lowest form of " divine light ”, 44
Electrons, there are beings on the, 196,
301
Element, one, predominates in each
globe, 298
Elemental world, three kingdoms of,
4**9 , 505, 517
Elements, fire, air, earth, water, and
ether, 115, 497-8
in the Stoic philosophy, 367
of the Ancients, 297
symbolism of the four, 392
Eleusinian Mysteries, Lesser, cele­
brated at Agrae, 248
religious and philosophic, 247
succession of teachers in, 245
Eleusis, Greater Mysteries celebrated
at, 232
what was taught at, 233
Elohim in Genesis, 79, 80
are ourselves, 87
were our Theosophical Monads, 82,
102, h i
Emanation, evolution and creation, 83
from Primordial Being down to
atoms, 331
Energy, conservation of, 88
potential, an absurdity, 89
Enke’s Comet, 50
Epicurus on Atheism (quoted), 265
Epicycloid, explained, 91
Epiphany, a minor manifestation of
Theophany, 242
Equinox, 207, 222
Esoteric, and exoteric truths, 28, 425
and exoteric philosophical systems
contrasted, 325-6
chronology, 206
Esoteric School, 197, 215
part of Hierarchy of Compassion, 305
reasons for secrecy in, 214
Trans-Himalayan, 215
Ether, will become palpable in the
Fifth Round, 308
Evil, Chohans of, 186
imperfection in any sphere, 55
origin of, 52
relativity of good and, 55, 155, 156
Evil, workers of spiritual, 186
Evolution, and Involution of spirit and
matter, 349
Darwinian, incomplete, 320
from Gods to bodies, 358
on each Globe, 393-4
self-directed, 287
the fifth ” Jewel ” , 161
Eye, Doctrine of the, 190, 375, 386
Father, Mother and Son, 31
Fifth-Rounders, and Sixth-Rounders,
492, 521
Force, and matter are fundamentally
one, 278
is etherealized matter, 150
Fourth dimension, no such thing as, of
space, 413
Free will, the question of man’s, 269
Genesis, Chapter II deals with third
and fourth rounds, 85
Globe ” A ” gives place to Globe ” B,”
and so on, 308, 490, 518
each, composed of fourteen
” worlds ”, 394, 400, 403, 416
Globes, are not “ principles ” , 176
correspondence between, and signs of
the Zodiac, 488
five hid, seven manifested, 476
higher nature of, goes into Nirvana,
478
Globe-Round, distinguished from Chain-
Round, 475
Gods, are the higher inhabitants of
Nature, 171
belief in, by Ancients, 54
Monads and Atoms, 316, 423
we became sons of the, 259
Good, means perfection in any sphere,
55
and evil, 155
relativity of, and evil, 55, 156
Good Friday, 222
Gospels, contain story of initiation,
221, 222
Jesus of the, a mythos, 221
Greeks, popular mythology of, and
Romans, 53
Guardian Wall, 220
Guruparampard, 244
Heart, divinity is within the, 22
doctrine of the, 375, 386
Heavens in Mithraism, 144
Heavens and Hells in Buddhist teach­
ings, 143
none in the Christian sense, 149
Hebrew language, peculiarities of, 76-7
Hell, meaning of, 513
Hermes, the planet Mercury, 211
Emerald Table of, quoted, 359
INDEX
550
Herschel, Sir Wm. and the Nebular
Theory, 61-2
Hierarch, meaning of, 52
Hierarchies, 423
Divine, 57, 63-4, 313
endless in number, 180
esoteric philosophy and, 63-5
explained, 52, 55, 60-72, 225-8
Greek, 56
in Christian theology, 67
Kosmos is guided by, 121
Neo-Platonic, 65
or Lokas, 180
Hierarchy, a, is a Unity, 502
Absolute of our, 192
diagram of any, 203, 225
diagram of consciousness in a, 186
every man is a, 261
in Jewish Qabbalah, 68-9
Supreme self of our, 204
Universal Kosmical, 195
Hierarchy of Compassion, 258, 263,
266
and Hierarchy of Builders, 313, 439
Esoteric School is part of the, 305
Higher Self, initiate meets his own, 220
withdrawal of the, 216
Humanities, six other, evolving with
us, 395
Hyparxis, 5 5 -6
Immortality, 194, 195, 196
is conditional, 125
Infinite, the, never becomes finite, 28
Initiation, and the Mysteries, 315
degrees of, 218-20
fourth, 275, 412
process of, 219-21
quickening of the Soul, 241
three possible results of, 249
Initiations, 412, 426
Isis, and the Goddess Neith, 483
Jehovah, not a very high God, 440
Jesus, and his illiterate disciples, 420
" crown of thorns " of, 216
His egoic vehicle provided by the
Buddha, 263
Mystery teaching of, 215
story of, a mystery story, 221
unquestionably lived, 267
who was, 237
Jewel, the seventh, Atma-Vidya, 162,
17 9
teaching imbodied in the first, 182
Jewels, the seven, a synopsis of all
possible human knowledge, 157-8,
160-1-2, 231
Jewish Qabbfilfih, 68-70
Jivdtman, 205
John's Gospel, opening verses of,
explained, 382-4
Judaism, replete with polytheism, 54
Jupiter, builds Globe B, 476
Justinian, closed the Mystery Schools,
4 1 9
Kabeiroi, nature of, 233
Kaliyuga, Hindu cycle of, 5$
Kalpa, or Planetary Manvantara, 90
Solar, 296
Kdma-manas, the " man " propbr, 166
Kdma-rupa, annihilation <
jf, 187
Kant, and the Nebular Theory, 61-2
K drana, the Causeless Cause, 272
Karma, guiding impulse of Ko§mic
nebula, 45
Karman, definition of, 129
there is no law of, 142
the second Jewel, 161
the will of spiritual beings, 130
Keys, seven, to Wisdom, 157-8
Kingdoms, elemental and the Globes,
518
seven, or “ humanities ", 398
three highest, are Dhydn-Chohanic,
518
Kosmic, aim and end of, evolution,
19 4
atoms, 217
clock, 206, 212
diagram of the seven planes, 499
each, element is filled with its
“ humanity ", 398
elements, 391-3, 398-400
Kosmocratores of our Planetary Chain,
476
Kosmos, 204, 217
circulations of the, 407, 461
elements and principles of, 400, 403,
413-6, 421-2
elements and worlds of (diagram),
390
guided by sentient beings, 60
seven elements and seven forces of,
378
scale of correspondences of, 194
Universal, 193, 197, 217
Kriydsakti, the power of Will and
Yoga, 510
Ldmaic succession is Bodhisattvic, 238
Laplace, Marquis de, and the Nebular
Theory, 61-2
Law, 143
Universal, 64
Laws, of Manu quoted, 356
of Nature are habits of Beings, 143
Laya-center, explained, 322
life substance cast into, 478
of man is Atman, 401
of the Sun, 323
or mystical point, 4 3 -4 , 49
Left-hand path, 32
Leibnitz, the Monads of, 82, 99
Lhamayin, 186
INDEX 551
Life Atoms, are germ souls, 479
the building blocks of the Universe,
493
Life-wave, making a “ Round ", 393-4
Life-waves, march of the, 506
seven, #r ten, 516
Light, a body, 44
corporealized in stone, metals, etc.,
44
corpuscular, 44, 319
form of vibration, 55
Logoi, seven primordial, 457
$pven Solar, 460
Logos, 205
Loka, within loka, 402, 405
Lokas and talas, 377, 394-5, 400-8,
414
Table of, 399
technical word for Hierarchies, 180
Lost souls, definition of, 186, 187, 195
reincarnate, 168
two classes of, 168, 185-6
Luminous arc, 400, 402-3, 439
Lunar-chain, lowest point of evolution,
404
Macrobius, 209
Magnetism, lowest form of " Divine
Light ", 44
Mahd-Buddha, 199-200
Mahd-Buddhi is Mahat, 259
Mahd-manvantara, half of our, is gone,
153
Mahd-Sdnyata, the Great Void, 422
Mamo-Chohans, 186
Man, average life of, 252
builds his own body, 504
can become a God, 19, 388
can know Truth, 9
Christian, Indian, and Qabbalistic
divisions of, 10
component parts of, 187
destined to be a Logos, 4S0
evolution of, 32
how, becomes a God, 388
no abiding principle in, 187, 227
origin of seven principles of, 10
threefold division, 235 #
Manas, entry of, into senseless man,
3i4
is mortal, 228
is the reincarnating ego, 256
Mdnasaputras, are our higher selves,
307
entities from the Buddhic Hierarchy,
34i
guided evolution of early races, 510
incarnation of, 258, 288, 314
Swabh&va of, 306
we are, of future Manvantaras, 286
Mdnasic, quality of man comes from
the Sun, 125
Manifestation, of a world, 28-31
Mdnusha-Buddha, 199
the human Buddha, 234, 260
ushers in each Root-Race, 235
Manvantara, 33-4, 296
Planetary and Solar, 46
evolution from dawn of, 153
Mars, and Mercury, not members of
our Planetary Chain, 175, 449
is building Globe F, 476
is younger than the earth, 173-4
the vital essence has left, 279
Master, difference between a, and our­
selves, 311
Masterhood, 228
Material Universe, is unreal, 12
Matter, Absolute, 192, 204
all, is “ radio-active", 319
crystallized force, 46, 103, 150, 319
is crystallized spirit, 307
is force to the hierarchy below us, 310
the upadhi of force, 278
Maya, meaning of, 19
Mercury, 211-2
and Esoteric New Year, 211, 224
and initiations, 224
beginning his last Round, 174
building Globe E, 476
perturbations in orbit of, variously
explained, 301
the planet of Bodha, 276
Messianic Cycle, runs 2160 years, 58,
274
Meteoric dust, encircles every planet,
279
Milky Way, the most Spiritual Ele­
ment, 293
Mind, breaking the molds of, 202,
410-11
Mithraism, heavens in, 144
seven initiations in, 145
Monad, and loss of the soul, 195
does not " descend into matter",
338. 34°
higher duad, 166
is a spiritual ego, 516
is the root of a hierarchy, 502
our inmost self, 103
the human, 107, 141
the spiritual, 141
vehicles of the, 193
Monadic, envelope, 205
Monads are souls of the atoms, 434
mineral, vegetable, animal, 338
of Leibnitz, 82, 99
spiritual atoms, 132
Moon, building Globe G, 476
Hermes, son of, 211
mystery of, must remain " tabu ",
523
stands for an invisible planet, 456
the, in relation to cycles, 211
the visible, is a k&ma-rfipa, 476,
784
INDEX
552
Moon-chain, how the life passed from
globes of, 477-8
Morality, basis and meaning of, 212
Morals, 37-8, 421
and ethics, 104, 328, 389, 397, 421,
472
Muhti or Moksha, the Absolute, 152
MiXlaprakriti, 34, 205
root-nature, 307
the root-substance, 151
Mysteries, betrayal of, 215-6
calendar derived from, 222
coronation taken from, 216
fell because of intrinsic degeneracy,
248
first established in Atlantis, 246
greater and lesser, 27, 38, 232, 248
jargon used in speaking of, 233
state functions copied from, 222
symbolism of the cup taken from,
216
the Eleusinian, 211
were dramatized forms of initiations,
3i5
Mystery Planets, seven, 276
Mystery Schools, 215-6
method of teaching in, 410
of Asia Minor, 221
reason for their establishment, 275
Ndstika, every occultist is a, 271
Nature, an abstraction, 169
Laws of, 172
" Mistakes ” of, 52
Nebular Theory, as originally taught,
3 9 -4 0
defects of, 41-5
originated by Kant, 61
Nefesh (Heb.), the lower nature, 167
Neith, the hidden side of Isis, 483
Neo-Platonists, philosophy of, 4
some teachings of, 55-6
Neptune, first planet formed, 40
is a “ capture ” , 453
not part of our system, 175
Nero unfit to pass rites of Eleusis,
419
Neshdmdh (Heb.), the most spiritual
principle, 10
New Year, Esoteric, 206
methods of computing the, 207, 223
Nirmanakdya, 199, 200
Nirvdna, 415
absorption into the higher self, 142
and Nirvana-Avichi, 141
definition of, 43
Nirvritti, evolution, 161
Nitya Pralaya, 35
Obscuration, is not pralaya, 519
of planet Mars, 174
or rest period, 90
Occultism, meaning of, 138
Olympus, 36
and Tartarus in Homer's Kosmos,
148
O m , pronunciation of, 14-15
” One ” , the, 179-80-81
One Life, is neither Spirit nor Matter,
48
Osiris, Isis and Horus, 31
Padmapdni, legend of, 71 ^
Pairs of Opposites, we learn Truth
through, 21
Palingenesis or repeated self-genera­
tion, 182
Pansil, H. P. B., took, and became a
Buddhist, 189
Parabrahman, 11, 12, 34
and Mulaprakriti, 12, 21, 100, 307
lives 100 Divine years, 153
Mfilaprakriti the garment of, 151
of a Hierarchy, 152
Para-Brahman-Mfilaprakriti, the high­
est part of every Hierarchy, 123
Paradoxes, or apparent contradictions,
289
value of teaching by, 411
Paramdtman, develops a sheath on
each plane, 132
man is the, for atoms of the body,
196
meaning of, n , 12
our, 192-3, 204-5
the Supreme Self, 64
Para-Nirvana, 152
Pass Not, Ring, 12
Paul, and the Athenians, 369-70
Saint, 57
the initiate, 411-2
Personal Ego, 196, 203, 205
Philosophers and Theosophy, 20
Physical Body is no principle, 113
Plane, each, embodies all higher
planes, 392-3
Planes, are actual entitative worlds,
398
seven, are seven Kosmic Elements,
39 L 4 i 4
three highest, are arfipa, 293, 499
Planet, a, is an “ animal ” , 173
each, really a constellation, 377
inter-mercurial, exists, 276
the lowest, is " near the moon ", 300
the seventh, 276
Planet of Death, 126
the ” Eighth-Sphere” , 164, 228
Planetary Chain, 199, 439-46, 448-57
a Bodhisattva for each globe of the,
234
a hierarchy, 502
building of the, 476
Mars and Mercury not part of our,
175»449
twelve Globes of, 475
INDEX 553
Planetary Spirits, or Dhyáni-Chohans,
234
Planetesimal hypothesis, 62
Planetoids explained, 290
Planets, and signs of Zodiac (diagram),
487
connected with seven Dhyám-
Chohans, 300
havfc one true moon each, 453
many, unknown to astronomers, 277
origin of, 290
relation of, to days of week, 212
scores of, in our Solar System, 451
seven sacred, 176, 298
seven sacred, are Upádhis of Solar
Forces, 277
seven sacred, build our seven globes,
475
seven sacred, transmit primal Forces
of Kosmos, 408
times of revolution (geocentric), 280
Plato, opinions re Circular Motion, 45
taught Theosophy, 4
Pleroma, the Doctrine of the Fullness,
380
Plotinus, 58
Pradhdna, 33
Prajdpati, meaning of, 23
Prakriti Máya, 33, 34
Prdkritika-pralaya, 93
planet in ,29
Prakritis, all seven, imbodied in every
Globe, 309, 393
ten Kosmic, 310
Pralaya, 34
Nitya-, 35
or dissolution, 44
Universal Kosmic, 152
Pralayas, Mamo-Chohans preside at,
186
of matter, solar system, earth and
man, 34-5
Solar, 227
Pratyeka-Buddhas, 156
Pratyeka-Yana, the left-hand path,
15b, 158
Pravritti, or involution, 161
Precessional Cycle, is tfye cycle of a
Family-Race, 240
Priest Kings, 510
Primordial Point, 29, 31, 35, 64-5, 67
Principles, all, are septenary, 306
and Elements of man and space, 378
four lower, form a “ union ", 258
man’s, derived from higher beings, 9
names of seven, explained, 10-11
of man correspond to the seven
elements, 299
real nature of seven, 255
the ten (diagrams), 525-6
Prophets of Israel taught polytheism,
53-4
Psychology, what we mean by, 124
Psychopomp, Hermes the, 211
Purusha-Prakriti, is the Kosmic soul,
123
Pyramids, were Initiation Temples, 249
Qahbdldh, contains Theosophy of Jews,
5-6
Jewish, 68-69
Race, 200
Buddha of a, 200
Races, diagram illustrating, 251
Root-, family and national, 239-40
first and third destroyed by fire, 302
table of, and Rounds, 252
Raja-Yoga, three principles of, 361
Regeneration, 188
Reincarnation, objection to, 357
Relativity, 204
Religious Systems, different, 53
Renunciation, spirit of, 185
Resurrection, 222-3
secret meaning of Christian, 479
Ring, Pass-Not, 12
Root-Race, 204
Fifth, millions of years old, 302
Sixth, will produce children by
meditation and will, 346
we are now in fourth Sub-Race of
Fifth, 239
Root-Races, destroyed by fire and
water, 302-3
Round, each, brings out one principle,
118
Fourth, 199, 200
Second, differs from the First, 520
seven globes formed in the First, 90
Round Manvantara, length of, 92
Rounders, “ Fifth " and “ Sixth ", 395
Rounds, Chain and Globe, 485
Globe and Planetary, 441
Inner and Outer, 462, 475
three elemental, 90
Ruahh or Rfiach, 79
Spiritual Soul, 10, 188
Saints, substitution for gods, 54
Sambhala, a place of great beauty, 264
home of the Hierarchy of Sages, 361
messenger comes from, at " barren
periods ", 362
Samothrace, mysteries at, were scien­
tific, 247
mysteries of, the oldest in Greece,
232
Sankardchdrya, was an Avat&ra, 262
Sapta-Ratndni, the “ Seven Jewels ",
157
Saturn, builds Globe D the earth, 476
spiritually ahead of Earth, 175
Science, distinguished from “ theories
of scientists ", 246
Second death, 141
INDEX
554
Second Round, how it differs from the
First, 520
Secret Doctrine, forms heart of Ancient
Mysteries, 27
how to study The, 202
Self, all beings are fundamentally one,
5 i
difference between, and ego, 129, 131
the link with the Unutterable, 2
Self-discipline and ethics, the first
lesson, 397
Selflessness, 22, 32
Self-sacrifice, joy of, 185 .
Separateness, heresy of, 42, 400
Seraphim, definition of, 67-8
Sermon on the Mount, 215
Seven, the number of the Manifested
Universe, 70
Sex, a passing phase, 342, 345
procreation, 345
Sexes, separation of the, 86
Shadow, Brothers of the, 156, 326
Shadowy Arc, 400, 402-3, 422, 439
Silent Watcher, one, for each Globe,
441
or Initiator, 183
the, 178-85
Sishtas, on Mars, 174
or remainders, 490-1
Sixth Rounder, Lord Buddha the only,
521
Skandhas, 43, 49
“ Sleeping Beauty ” (fairy tale), ex­
plained, 491-2
Socrates, 216
not an initiate, 483
Solar Kalpa, comprises seven Planetary
Manvantaras, 296
Solar Lhas, sacrificed themselves, 258
Solar Nirvdna, 442
Solar Pralaya, follows seven Planetary
Chains, 519
Solar System, 195
origin of, 439
the atom a miniature, 196-7
Solomon, 188
Solstice, the Winter, 222
Song Celestial, mistakes in translation
of. 3-4
Sorcerers, annihilation of, 186
conscious, 185
Sosigenes, 208-9
Soul, a vehicle of spirit, 322
loss of the, 216, 228
lost, 187, 195-6, 228
vehicle of ego, 193
Soulless Beings, 164
Souls, and egos in man (diagram), 203,
225-8, 131-3
are gods in embryo, 154
four, in man, 126
lost, classes of, 168, 185-6
lost, and " soulless ” beings, 164-5
Space, finite and infinite, 412-3
principles and elements of, 378
real meaning of, 330, 346-7, 368,
372, 374
rigidity of, 33
the spaces of, 374
Spheres, Doctrine of the, 459
Stellar Universe, directed by intelli­
gence, 49
Stoics, taught intermingling of every­
thing, 51-2
Sub-Race, our, is fourth of Fifth
Root-Race, 239
Succession, of Teachers, 244
Sun, a mass of force, 279
and Moon are substitutes for sacred
planets, 176, 277
builds Globe A, 476
composition of outward form, 50
has no heat or combustion, 46, 319
is a reflection, 322
is highest degree of matter on this
plane, 317
is not hot, 46, 319
is not really physical, 278
of Life, 31
Sdnya, the great emptiness, 383
Sdnyata, the Doctrine of the Void, 218,
380
Supreme Self, of the atoms, 217
our Param&tman, 64, 151, 154
“ Surplus of Life ” , in Globe evolution,
518
what is, 504
Swabhdva, a fundamental doctrine, 12I
contrasted with Swabhavat, 163-4
or inherent characteristic, 109, 505
the fourth key, 158
the indwelling Spirit of a Globe, 476
the selfhood of the Self, 104, n o
works through Hierarchies, 123
Swabhavat, ” Father-Mother ”, 163
mystically Adi-Buddhi, 164
the self-becoming, 102
Swastika, 406-7
Taijasa-tattwa, the fiery Tattwa, 352
Talas, are the seven Elements, 432
Tartarus, and Olympus, 148
Tattwa, a Principle of Nature, 297
Anupapddaka-, corresponds to an
unknown ” Element ” , 297
Prithiw!-, the lowest of the scale, 348
Tattwas, 297-8
difference between, and prakritis,
307
or Elements, 298, 350 (diagram)
Tau, the Egyptian, 407
Teachers, succession of, 244
Teaching, esoteric method of, 144
Ten, sacred number, in occultism, 70
the key number, 64
Tetractys, 70
INDEX
" That” , the ineffable, not “ a ”
being, 45
Theoi, the Builders, 316
Theocrasy, doctrine of, 130
meaning of, 42
TheopathyM
361, 386-7
Theophany, 361, 386-7
in the fifth initiation, 242
Theopntusty, 361, 387
Theosophy, agid European philosophies,
20
an enemy to materialism, 49
in^the Book of the Dead, 4-5
in the Scandinavian Eddas, 5
in the Qabbcilcih, 5
in the Upanishads, 4
taught by Plato and Pythagoras, 4
taught in Greek Mysteries, 4
the test of truth, 128
transmitted from immemorial times,
9 .
Timceus, of Plato, quoted, 344, 447
Transmigration, a misunderstood doc­
trine, 44
real meaning of, 503
Transmutation of metals, etc., is a
fact, 319
Treasuries of Wisdom, the Seven, 326
Triangle and Square, meaning of, 39,
3 9 i
Trishnd, 29
Truths, Esoteric, found in poetry, etc.,
424-5
Universe, the material, is unreal, 12
Unthinkable, thinking towards the, 2
Unutterable, our link with the, 2
Upddhis, the three, of man, 124
Upanishads, Theosophy found in the, 4
Uranus, does not belong to our system,
175. 452
Ushnisha, explanation of, 426, 427
Vdyu-tattwa, the aerial tattwa, 352
Veddnta, meaning of, 4
the highest form of Brahmanical
teachings, 19
the noblest of the six Incjian schools,
307
Venus, in her last Round, 174
built Globe C, 476
555
" Virgin Birth ” of Christ, various
explanations, 343, 355
Void, doctrine of the, 218, 377
higher planes of the Boundless, 376
the Illimitable, 375
Vulcan, an intra-mercurial planet, 276,
4 56
one of the sacred planets, 299
Week, origin of our days of the, 211-2
Welsh Bards, esoteric teachings given
by, 155
Wondrous Being, a septenary entity,
235
an entity, 198
and the Calendar, 223
and the Lord Buddha, 189
Banyan key-word to teaching on,
191
came from superior spheres, 237
Dhy&ni-Buddha of the Fourth
Round, 200, 306
incarnates from age to age, 264
Kosmic correspondence of Milky
Way to, 201
names of, 217
nature of his sacrifice, 185
or Great Initiator, 182
our Highest Self, 192-3, 197, 200
relation of human ego to, 201
Seventh Jewel and, 217
The, 159-60, 163, 178, 191, 195, 200,
205, 220
the Great Sacrifice, 184
the Silent Watcher, 234
three-fold manifestation of, 198
Word, sounding of the, 522
World, definition of, 413
our physical, but the husk of
Reality, 409-10, 423
Worlds, the four, 392
Year, the real Mystic, 224
Zodiac, relation to Planetary Chain,
487-9
Zdhar, on the study of Jewish re­
ligious books, 6
Zoroaster, Book of the Prophet, quoted,
359-60
THE HOUSE OF RIDER
New & Recent Publications
SPRING 1932
THE EXTENSION OF CONSCIOUSNESS
An Introduction to Metapsycholog)
by C. W. Olliver, B.A., B.Scvfe$.E. (Paris)
Author of “An Analysis of Magic and Witchcraft”
Following in the footsteps of the late Richet, the author of this work endeavours to
formulate a theory covering the whole range of phenomena, from elementary automa­
tism to the rare gift of foreknowledge. Mcdiumship he explains in terms of an expansion
of consciousness ; and the suggestion of Sir Oliver Lodge with regard to the con­
nection between life and the ether he carries to its logical conclusion. The book is a
serious contribution to the advancement of psychic science.
Large Demy 8vo. 288 pp. Cloth, gilt. 15/. net.
OTHER-WORLD STUFF
by Charles J. Whitby, B.A., M.D. (Cantab.)
Author of “The Wisdom of Plotinus”
Dr. W hitby’s latest book is a challenge to the dictum of Hegel, that philosophy has
nothing to do with “other-world stuff”. Philosophical mysticism at its best here finds
happy expression through the cultured pen of the author of The Wisdom of Plotinus,
etc.
Although written in an agreeable and popular style, it is nevertheless a work of
genuine philosophical import— a strong and timely protest against the trend of modern
science, and a vindication of that broader view which sees the universe as veiling a
transcendent Reality, of which glimpses from time to time have been caught by the
rapt gaze of seers and sages.
Demy 8vo. 224 pp. Cloth, gilt. 7/. 6d, net.
2 SPRING LIST OF BOOKS
A HYPNOTIST’S CASE BOOK
by Alex. Erskine
N o sinister secrets are here d ivu lged , bu t instead M r. A le x . E rskin e, a successful
practition er o f m any years* experience, reveals som e m arvellou s instances o f h yp n otic
cure.
A lth o u g h it is k n o w n that h ypn otism m ay som etim es be beneficially em p loyed ,
it is n ot gen erally realized to w h at an incredible extent apparently incurable troubles
such as hopeless cases o f blindness, paralysis, etc., m ay be n o t o n ly alleviated, but
in certain instances p ositively cured.
C O N T E N T S : T h e D o m in an ce o f the Su bcon sciou s M ind — P erson al H isto ry—
F irst Cases— T h e M igra to ry M in d — H yp n osis and the S o lu tio n o f C rim e— H ypn osis
and Spiritualism — D rin k and D r u g s — H yp n o sis in E v e ry d a y L ife — Pain and O th er
T h in g s— Som e M iscellan eou s Cases— T h e C h u rch and F aith H ealin g.
C ro w n 8 vo. 160 pp . 5/. net.
THE MYSTERIOUS COMET
The Origin, Building up and Destruction of Worlds by Means of
Cometary Contacts
by Comyns Beaumont
T he auth or o f this b o o k m aintains that the com et is a planetary outcast, w an d erin g
th ro u gh space u n til captured b y a sun. In a fascinating and lucid m anner he describes
h o w these bodies, on ce d raw n in to o u r system , disin tegrate in to m asses o f m eteors
w h ich , in traversin g o u r orbit, are the cause o f earthquakes, vo lcan ic eruptions, and o f
m ajor and m in or catastrophes, from the in trod u ction o f n ew geo lo g ica l epoch s to the
passing thun der-show er. W ith the ancient Chaldeans he h old s that the earth is con stan t­
ly receivin g accretions o f various kinds th ro u gh com etary con tact. O p en in g up as it
d oes a vast n ew field o f th o u g h t, this w o rk w ill be m uch discussed in scientific circles.
D e m y 8 vo. 288 pp ., illustrated. 15/. net.
THE VESTAL VIRGINS
by Sir T. Cato Worsfold, Bt.
Never b efo te has so m uch o u t-of-th e-w ay in form ation in con n ection w ith a d eep ly
interestin g and little k n o w n institution been b ro u gh t to geth er w ith in the co vers o f a
b rie f volu m e. T h e result o f m any years* specialized research, the fruit o f Sir T . C ato
W o rsfo ld ’s labours is here m ade available fo r all w h o are d irectly o r rem otely interested
in this ancient ord er.
D em y 8 vo. C lo th , gilt* 7s. Gd.
SPRING LIST OF BOOKS 3
The wise book that all parents have been waiting for
DIFFICULT CHILDREN
How to Deal with Them
by Marcella Whitaker, M.R.S.T.
In these nerv^shot days, when the pace of life grows stronger and stronger, parent«
are finding the pioblem of child management become still more complex. Children
tend ever to become more “difficult” . The responsibility attaching to the influence
exerttd over the young in the early, plastic years of life, grows greater in proportion
to the more critical nature of the period through which our times are passing. Those
in charge of the young should welcome this practical and authoritative little guide by
a teacher qualified alike by temperament, experience and study to deal with the vitally
important question of the management of difficult children.
Crown 8vo. 80 pp. is. net.
PSYCHOLOGY
Science or Superstition ?
by Grace Adams, Ph.D.
The author of this work not only has a comprehensive grasp of her subject, but the
rare ability to make “ dry” matter bright and interesting. Her survey of the field
is impartial and informative, while an excellent bibliography is included. Critical, non­
partisan, and bright in style, this book is a veritable compendium of the theories,
claims, and actual achievements of psychology. While constituting a complete history
of Psychology in its many ramifications, it is at the same time a popular introduction
and keen criticism of psychological theory and practice.
Large Crown 8vo. 288 pp. 7s. net.
MEANING AND PHILOSOPHY OF NUMBERS
by Leonard Bosman
When you experiment with divination by numbers, are you sure of the foundations
of the system you practice ? And can you make it clear to your friends ? Unless you
are able to do so you are working in the dark. With the aid of Leonard Bosnian’s work
you will be able to discover the basic principles of all systems of numerology and apply
them scientifically on your own account. It not only discloses the true and original
meaning of numbers,but explains the reason why they signify all that it is claimed they do.
Large Crown 8vo. 160 pp. 5/. net.
4 SPRING LIST OF BOOKS
1 8th Thousand calledfor
ON THE EDGE OF THE ETHERIC
by J. Arthur Findlay, M.B.E., J.P.
“ Mr. Findlay has written a book which bears the stamp of earnest conviction,
which deserves to be read with care by all those interested in this subject and is as con­
troversial as it is important.” — Glasgow Record.
. . has written a valuable book not only for the experienced student, but for the
novice of spiritual phenomena.”— Sheffield Telegraph.
. makes a clear statement of his evidence and builds upon it a philosophy which
may help many.”— Stock Exchange Gazette.
“ Mr. Findlay is a successful business man, who brings a fund of sound common
sense to the study of what is now often called Psychics.”— Morning Post.
“ There have been many books on psychic phenomena ; few of them have presented
their case with the lucidity of this one.”— Evening Standard.
Demy 8vo. 180 pp. 3/. 6d. net.
“The Spiritualist Book oj the Year.”—Psychic Gazette
WE ARE HERE
by Judge Ludvig Dahl
11With its wealth of significant and consistent material it is an outstanding pioneer work in
Norway, and1 commend the wholebookto the attention of the English public.”
SIR OLIVER LODGE.
“ Merits the serious attention of all those interested in psychic phenomena and
life after death,”— Oxford Times.
“ They make extraordinarily interesting reading. A book for all those who believe
in survival after death.”— Liverpool Express.
Demy 8vo. 256 pp. Cloth, gilt, illustrated. 7s. 6d. net.
RAYS OF LIGHT
The Ladder o j the M ystic and a Lam p
for the feet of the tired worker
by E. Geraldine Owen
Author of “Freedom through Understanding”
L a rg e C ro w n 8 vo. T a stefu lly p ro d u ced , is. 6d. net.
A MANUAL OF HYPNOTISM
by H. Ernest Hunt
Herein Y O U the a vera ge m an— w ill find so m eth in g w h ich con cern s y o u v a stly j
herein Y O U ^ m a y find the clu e to the p o w ers that raise on e m an a b o v e his fello w s, that
tu rn failu re in to success, and th at ren d er the path o f life a h app y h ig h w a y instead o f
a w e a ry road.
4th E d itio n , C ro w n 8 vo. 96 p p . 2J*. net.
SPRING LIST OF BOOKS
A Standard W ork
ASTROLOGICAL KEYWORDS
Compiled from leading authorities
This excellent collection of astrological data in tabloid form constitutes a multum in
parvo for the practising astrologer. The fact that experts turn constantly to Astrologies
Keywords'iot quick reference is the highest tribute that can be paid.
' Large Crown 8vo. 224 pp. 7/. Gd. net.
COMPLETE ARCANA OF ASTROLOGY
by Dr. J. W. Simmonite
The most full, practical and simple work on Gencthliology or the Doctrine of Nativities.
It gives exhaustive rules for calculating Primary Directions, and includes numerous
Tables, with instructions as to their use, which reduce mathematical labour to a
minimum.
Demy 8vo. Illustrated, cloth, gilt. 15/. net.
THE MYSTERIES OF SOUND & NUMBER
by Sheikh Habeeb Ahmad
This book has for several years beencommanding highprices, ranging from£3 upwards,
it having long since come to be recognized as the standard work upon the subject.
As is well known, it deals largely with application of Sound and Number and
Planetary Influences to Horseracing and Speculation, which have been selected as a
department of experience that will lend itself especially to the illustration of the mys­
terious truth set forth in this book. The information it contains has, however, been
used with great profit by many speculators.
Demy 8vo. Bound in scarlet cloth, 10s. Gd. net.
YOUR DAYS ARE NUMBERED
by Florence Campbell, M.A.
Figures don’t lie. Numbers arc truth. You can add, subtract, or multiply your
fortunes and misfortunes by the laws of Numerology, the science of numbers. By its
rules every name is reducible to a number. To ignore this number is to remain a
prisoner. To understand it is to achieve freedom. Your Days art Numbered is thefirst
complete handbook of this science available in modern language. It can be easily read
and understood by the beginner, and as he becomes more expert it will offer more
involved and even more interesting studies. As a key to opening the subject and as a
guide to the significance of*Numerology in all phases of life, this book is invaluable.
Large Crown 8vo. 256 pp. 5/. net.
TRUTH— Straight from the shoulder
THE DOCTOR LOOKS AT MARRIAGE AND
MEDICINE
by Joseph Collins, M.D.
New Edition. Demy 8vo. Cloth, gilt. 288 pp. 5/. net.
6 SPRING LIST OF BOOKS
(As the first edition will be limited, delay and disappointment during the process of
reprinting may best be avoided by ordering immediately.)
FUNDAMENTALS OF THE ESOTERIC PHILOSOPHY
by G. de Purucker, M.A., D.Litt.
This new work by Dr. de Purucker, the present leader of the Theosophical Society,
with International Headquarters at Point Loma, California, consists of forty-eight
lectures which he delivered to the members of the Esoteric Section diying the years
1924-1927. These lectures were given under the direction of Katherine Tingley, then
Outer Head of the Esoteric Section, in fulfilment of her long-cherished plan to give
to the world a work which would not only serve as a commentary upon The Secret
Doctrine of H. P. Blavatsky, but at the same time would be the means of giving out
certain esoteric keys, not contained in that book, which would enable the reader to
unlock the treasures of knowledge therein contained to an extent hitherto undreamed
of by the majority of students.
The volume is edited by A. Trevor Barker, the well-known compiler of The Mahatma
letters to A . P. Sinnett. In his opinion as a student of the teachings of H. P. Blavatsky,
Fundamentals of the Esoteric Philosophy is probably the most important contribution
to Theosophical teaching since the publication of The Secret Doctrine, and will prove in
time to be indispensable to those who desire to gain a fuller understanding of Blavatsky’s
masterpiece.
Large Demy 8vo. 576 pp., and copious index. 25s. net.
3rd series of Leaves from the Autobiography
of a Soul in Paradise
THE GATE OF HEAVEN
Recorded for the Author by Robert James Lees
T his third series of Leaves from the Autobiography of a Soul in Paradise recorded
by the late Robert James Lees completes a notable trilogy, of which the ever-
popular Through the Mists and The Life Elysian constitute the two first volumes.
In The Gate of Heaven is sketched the progress of the soul of Aphraar after death
through purgatory to the gateway of the Second Birth, which, according to the
teaching of Mr. Lees’ spirit friends, may take place after physical death.
It is safe to say that many readers who have not hitherto read the preceding
records of Robert James Lees will find their introduction to this work the opening
of an interesting acquaintance.
Crown 8vo. 256 pp. Cloth, ¿s. net.
INTELLIGENT REVOLT AND O^THER PAPERS
by Dora E. Hecht
Such subjects as Revolt, Self-Sacrifice, Egoism, Human Types and various questions
of Relation are here discussed in an essentially modern and practical manner.
“ . . . Thoughtful, searching, and practical, and calculated to illumine the problems
both of parents and teachers.” — Edinburgh Evening New.
“ . . . Enforces a healthy revolt against some accepted views.” — Dundee Courier.
“ Thoughtfully written papers of a philosophical nature.” — John O’ London.
“ She has arguments. . . . She has ideas, and ideas that are profound.”— Saturday
Review.
Crown 8vo. 144 pp. 3/. Gd. net.
7
SPRING LIST OF BOOKS
THE LOST KEYS OF FREEMASONRY
or the Secret of Hiram A b iff
by Manly P. Hall,
with Foreword by Reynold E. Blight, 330
Illustrated by J. Augustus Knapp, 320
The steady delhand and increasing popularity of this volume, of which 18,000 copies
have been sold since it first appeared a few years ago, have brought the present revised
and rearranged edition into being. The text can be read with profit by both new
and oW Masons, for within its pages lies an interpretation of Masonic symbolism which
supplements the monitorial instruction usually given in the lodges.
Crown 8vo. Illustrated. 5/. net.
THE SPLENDOUR OF LIFE
by Edward Corse Scott
“ . . . Very delightful and inspiring.”— Rally.
“ It is stimulating, enlarging and uplifting.”— Guardian.
“ . . . A great stimulant, and will do much good.”— Epoch.
Demy 8vo. 288 pp. 7j*. 6d. net.
A MUSICIAN’S TALKS WITH UNSEEN FRIENDS
by Florizel von Reuter
Concluding his introduction, the author says that “ having already written two psychic
books containing valuable test material (Psychical Experience of a Musician and The
Consoling Angel) I may be pardoned for offering to the public a collection of writings in
which evidential material occupies a place of secondary importance” . The subjects
dealt with in the writings are of great interest and variety— including art, music,
religion and psychic problems. From Carmen Sylva, to Zola and Pierre Lori, the
names of the famous departed are plentifully bestrewn throughout these
communications.
Large Crown 8vo. 160 pp. y . net.
In Active Pi eparation.
ISLAMIC SUFISM
by Sirdar Ikbal Ali Shah
Author of “ Briton in India” , “ Challenge of Islam” , “ The
Golden East” , “ Eastward to Persia” , etc.
Few are better qualified that Sirdar Kibal Ali Shah to write upon the subject of Tslamtc
Sufism. A study such as he has here undertaken is made possible only by the fact that
to the Sirdar, a native of Afghanistan, the literature of Islamic mysticism is a familiar
subject. Sirdar Ikbal Ali Shah’s book is without doubt destined to rank as a standard
work on a subject of which little of an authoritative character has hitherto been generally
available.
Large Demy 8vo. 256 pp. Illustrated. 15/. net. (prov.)
8 SPRING LIST OF BOOKS
PRIMITIVE MAN
Being V ol. I of “ A History of E xperim nial Spiritualism”
(Laurealed by the French Academy o f Sciences)
by Caesar de Vesme
The term “ Spiritualism” is used in its philosophical sense.
T he book is a scientific work written in popular language, on the liSics of Andrew
Lang’s Making of Religion.
From the first reviews:
“ M. de Vesme goes into the subject with a thoroughness which must evoke admira­
tion whether one agrees or not.” — Aberdeen Press.
“ . . . Contains much information.”— Yorkshire Post.
. . Possesses in itself a completeness which makes it of value and interest and
touches upon an extraordinarily wide range of matters affecting the beliefs of man.”
— Sheffield Independent.
“ No one . . . can fail to be stimulated to a keener interest in the subject.”
— Birkenhead Nem.
“ This important work.” — Psychic Gazette.
Demy 8vo. 288 pp. Cloth gilt. ior. 6d. net.
PEOPLES OF ANTIQUITY
V ol. II of “ A History of Experimental Spiritualism”
by Caesar de Vesme
After having discussed, in Primitive Mant the initial volume of this work, the nature
and origin of religious beliefs, M. de Vesme proceeds to discuss the rôle played by the
experimental elements in the spiritualistic doctrines of early civilization, but more
especially in connection with Hebrew and Graeco-Roman peoples.
“ The new volume is of great interest to students of the subjects dealt with, and
further volumes will be eagerly anticipated.” — Yorkshire Post.
Demy8vo. 288 pp. Cloth, gilt. 10s.6d.net.
THE HOLY GRAIL
Its Legends and Symbolism
by Arthur Edward Waite
Author of “ Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross”,
“Emblematic Freemasonry”, etc.
Than Arthur Edward Waite there is no greater authority on the legends and symbolism
of the Holy Grail now living. The fruit of a long lifetime’s study of this fascinating but
elusive theme, the present work constitutes a complete reconstruction and examination
of the subject, superseding the work of earlier years and giving the benefit of a well-
matured judgment and keenly analytical insight.
Large Demy 8vo. Provisional price, 30s, net*
SPRING LIST OF BOOKS 9
THE LOST CONTINENT OF MU
by James Churchward
With the s^ory of the lost continent of Atlantis the researches of the archaeologist
have made us more or less familiar. That even before the time of Atlantis an island
continent existed in the centre of the Pacific Ocean has been for long held as a
possibility.
It has been left to James Churchward, writer and explorer, to tell us in The Lost
Continent of Mtt and The Children of Muythe story of the colonial development of that
civilization— of the colonies of Mu established by her hardy pioneers, which covered
the earth long before the oldest of historic times. He pictures for us an ancient world
the ejftent of which was even greater than our world to-day, that flourished long before
the Glacial period. Here we have, not the writings of a mystic with a divine inspiration,
but the logical, objective reasoning of the scientist. A more thrilling narrative could
scarcely be told.
Large Demy 8vo. 336 pp. Profusely illustrated. 15/. net.
THE CHILDREN OF MU
by James Churchward
In The Lost Continent of Mu Mr. Churchward recreated for us from prehistoric writ­
ings a vast, highly developed civilization which existed over 20,000 years ago,
astounding us with a new and apparently unchallenged theory of the origin of man
substantially supported by factual evidence. He brings back to life thriving
empires in Egypt and Babylonia, in India, in Mexico and Brazil, in old Europe
and new America— peopled by a highly cultured race that lived as we live, and
that was destroyed when the mountains were first reared and two vast continents
sank to form our two great modern oceans. Those that survived degenerated to
savagery, and out of this savagery has our own civilization been born.
Substantiated as it is by facts gleaned through a lifetime of research from
ancient tablets discovered in India, in Mexico, as also in Colorado— in fact, all over
the world— the cold logic of his narrative makes his proof almost as startling and
miraculous as the civilization he has discovered.
Large Demy 8vo. 266 pp. Profusely illustrated. 15/. net.
INITIATIONS AND INITIATES IN TIBET
An authentic and authoritative work on the esoteric
doctrines and magical practices of Tibet
by Alexandra David-Neel
“ The unique knowledge of Tibetan mysticism possessed by Madame David-Nee
is further expounded in this remarkable volume.“ — The Daily Telegraph.
“ It seems safe to assert that Madame Alexandra David-Neel is the only writer who
has furnished anything like a complete account of the strangest of all religious systems.“
— Dundee Advertiser.
“ An extremely interesting and well illustrated volume.” — News-Chronicle.
Large Demy 8vo. 224 pp. Fully illustrated. 12/. 6J.net.
IO SPRING LIST. OF BOOKS
MAETERLINCK
by Auguste Bailly
Maeterlinck, by Auguste Bailly, the well-known novelist and critic, and winner of the
Prix Lasserre in 1928, is a penetrating sketch of the plays and essays of the ^rorld-famoua
Belgian mystic and philosopher. This book is indispensable to all those desirous
of understanding the trend of events, literary and mystical, during the past half-century.
Monsieur Bailly sets forth Maeterlinck’s position in many varied aspects #
of human
thought, and gives us the most luminous and fertile commentary it wcfCQd be possible
to produce.
Striking analogies are drawn between the activities of the animal kingdom, in its
lowliest though highly intelligent form, and those of man ; and Maeterlinck’s attitude
towards destiny, his views on animal and plant life, on metaphysical and metapsychical
problems, are expounded with remarkable lucidity and sympathetic insight.
Large Crown 8vo. 160 pp. Cloth gilt. 5r.net.
The Morning Tost says :
“A book that grips the imagination as much from its sincerity and logical quality,
as from the universal interest of its subject.”
EXPERIENCES FACING DEATH
The Self-revelation of a distinguished Novelist
by Mary Austin
T his autobiographical work constitutes a deeply penetrative self-revelation of a
keen intelligence faced with the prospect of death. It cuts right through
creeds and orthodox religion and deals with the inevitable question at the
back of all.
Large Crown 8vo. 288 pp. 7/. (\d. net.
AN INTRODUCTION TO ROYAL ARCH MASONRY
by “ Essex Master”
A w ork written to inform Companions of the Order in the meaning, symbolism
and teachings of this exalted Degree in Freemasonry. It is written in simple language
and will be found of interest and instruction alike for the newly-admitted and long-
established member of the fraternity. The historical introductions are entertaining,
whilst the practical language in which the mystical explanations are set forth is just
what one would expect from the pen ot “ Essex Master” , whose previous work, The
Teachings of Freemasonry, has had such a wide commendation amongst Freemasons
of repute.
Large Crown 8vo. 116 pp. zs. 6d. net.
ENGLISH FREEMASONRY IN ITS PERIOD OF
TRANSITION (1600-1700)
by \V. Bro. F. de P. Castells, P.M., P.Z.
Author of “ The Apocalypse of Freemasonry”
Demy 8vo. 224 pp. Cloth. 7s. 6d. net.
I I
SPRING LIST OF BOOKS
Is it Reincarnation ?
SOUL OF NYRIA
An Actual Memory of a past life in ancient Rome.
P E R S O N S C O N C E R N E D IN T H E P R E S E N T P R O D U C T I O N :
TifB O ccultism.
(A. P. Sinnett)
T he Instrument.
T he Recorder and
Editor (Mrs. Praed)
Assistant-Editor.
(The Hon. Ralph Shirley)
T he Commentator.
W riter and L ectu rer on O c c u lt P h ilo so p h y and In tro d u cer
o f the Instrum ent.
A m o d ern E n glish w o m an w h o , in an abn orm al state o f
con sciousn ess, relates the life-sto ry o f N yria , a slave-
g irl in Im perial R om e.
T o w h o m N yria , th ro u gh the lip s o f the Instrum en t,
d ictates her story.
C ritical E xam in er in to h istorical verification s o f N y ria ’ s
n arrative and w rite r o f the C ritical Preface.
A S ou rce o f In form ation and Instruction upon the su per­
ph ysical L ev el, w h eth er in d ivid u al o r c o llectiv e is in d eter­
m inable : w h ich is apart from the E n tity N yria , but is also
expressed on the p h ysical lev el th ro u gh the m o uth o f the
Instrum en t.
L a rge D em y 8v o . 448 pp. Illustrated . 2 u .n e t .
A sequel to that brave challenge to Sir James Jeans and Sir Arthur
Keith entitled “Man and the Universe”.
JESUS, THE SPIRITUAL ASTRONOMER
by Walter Wynn
T he value of the work is found in the way the author gives to the words of Jesus
in astronomical setting.
‘‘The book is full of graphic descriptions and gives food for much thought.”
—Cambridge News.
“ Written in Mr. Wynn’s forceful style, the book is both readable and instructive.”
— Light.
“ A work which bears unmistakable signs of exhaustive search into the New
Testament.5
’— Manchester News.
Crown 8vo. 160 pp. 4J. 6d. net.
For Hosts and Hostesses seeking new ideas !
YOUR BIRTHDAY MONTH— AND YOU
by Margaret Baillie-Saunders, the famous novelist
A novel system of character-reading.
“ Should provide many people with a welcome diversion on a winter’s evening.”
— Bookftnder.
“ The author’s theories are certainly novel.” — Public Opinion.
“ The results of her studies will provide entertainment as well as instruction for
readers. It is interesting to test the validity of the system as applied to one’s friends
and neighbours.” — Cambridge News.
“ Here is first-rate amusement, ready made.” — Modern.
“ Good fun for parties.” — The Lady.
L a rg e C ro w n 8 vo. T a stefu lly p ro d u ced . 3/. 6d. net.
12 SPRING LIST OF BOOKS
z n d large im p ression .
THE PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY
by Sylvan J. Muldoon and Hereward Carrington
F r o m the F o r e w o r d :— I am ■ w
ell aware of the fact that one must first experience
conscious astral projection before he can believe in it, and I confess that I should not
accept it as true myself, perhaps, had I not experienced it and know it to be true. The
sceptic says : “ 1 want the proof, the objective proof, then 1 will believe itT ’
And the projector replies: “ You cannot have objective proof.** You must /x-
p erience it, then you will have the proof.” The argument that the projector cannot prove
to the sceptic that it is not a dream is of no avail; for neither can the sceptic prove to
the projector that it i s a dream. Thus, argument is useless— as useless as argtting the
matter of a first cause or a last effect.
I stand on a clear-cut issue. I say experience it. “ The proof of the pudding is the
eating 1” I have not tried to conceal anything nor resorted to pseudo-arguments about
the “ dangers” involved, which is a common characteristic of most writers 09 this
subject. I have given the specific methods for bringing about the projection of the astral
body, as I know them, and I am willing to have the truth of my statements judged
squarely by the results obtained through the practice of these methods. You want
proof, and I say you can have it— but you must experien ce it. You want to know bow
you can experience it, and I tell you how to go about it. I can do no more.
Large Demy Bvo. 288 pp. Profusely illustrated. i 8j, net
THE STORY OF PSYCHIC SCIENCE
by Hereward Carrington
“ Interspersed throughout the book descriptions of tests with many of the most
famous mediums are given, and altogether the volume is one of the most compre­
hensive and critical that has been written in recent years on psychic investigation and
its results.”— E d in b u rg h E v en in g N e w s . “ This survey is timely.”— P u b lic O p in io n .
“ Those who want an introduction to the subject under a leadership they can trust
will find it here.” — N o r th e r n W h ig .
Large Demy 8vo. 418 pp., with 26 Illustrations. Chart of the Psychic Sciences, and
copious index. 24s. net.
THE MODERN WAY TO HEALTH
by Victor S. Davidson
“ It is full of good advice, useful information and many fine recipes.”— E p o c h .
“ There can be few 120-page books more closely packed with sound advice.”— D a i l
H e r a ld .
Crown 8vo. 128 pp. With frontispiece, chart and plate, i s . 6d . net.
HAVE YOU A STRONG WILL
by Charles Godfrey Leland
How to develop and strengthen Will-power, Memory, or any other Faculty or Artribute
of the Mind by the Easy Process of Self-Hypnotism.
jth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth. y . 6d . net.
SPRING LIST OF BOOKS 13
PSYCHIC SELF-DEFENCE
A Study in Occult Pathology and Criminality
by Dion Fortune
.. An extremely interesting and informative little study of occultism in its various
branches.*’— Truth. . . Vitally important.” — Birkenhead News.
yd Impression Demy 8vo. 244 pp. Cloth. 71. (J, net.
THE PROBLEM OF PURITY
by Violet M. Firth
yfhe most sensible and useful book of its kind that this reviewer has ever read.”
— Publishers' Circular. “ I most unhesitatingly recommend it to my readers, and I am
sure the advice given will be of the greatest value.”— T. Bowen Partington in Health
and Strength.
yd Impression Crown 8vo. 144 pp. y. 6d. net.
YOUR LATENT POWERS
by Margaret V. Underhill
Author of “Your Infinite Possibilities”
“ The book is an uplifting, consoling, illuminative, sane and powerful contribution
towards the art of fine living. It is sure to be popular ; try it 1
” — Good News for All.
“ A book to have and a book to read often.” — The Seer. “ . . . It is a helpful, practical
piece of work, worthy of study by everyone who desires to progress intellectually
and spiritually, and full of encouragement for the discouraged and despairing.”
— Southport Guardian.
Crown 8vo. 192 pp. ys. net.
4th impression
THE SCIENCE OF SEERSHIP
by Geoffrey Hodson
.. O f interest to all who wish to know something of the possibility of cultivating
the psychic senses.”— Theosophist. “ A book of real interest, specially to the medical
profession who wish to know more than any study of the physical body alone can
teach.” — Sunday Referee.
Demy 8vo. 224 pp. Illustrated. 7/. 6d. net.
A provocativeandboldcontributionto thediscussion ofthemostpressing ofall humanproblems.
THE ETERNAL POLES
A book about Love in all itj forms and phases— initial, daemonic, celestial, personal,
sexual.
by Claude Bragdon
“ The book is well written, is readable and interesting and provides food for much
thought.”— Science of Thought Review.
“ This book is a real book, not just words and chapters. It is a book for libraries,
a book to own and a book to lend.” — News and Notes.
“ I claim for him that his writing upon love is the most significant since Sweden­
borg.” — Sunday Referee.
“ It is very interesting and Mr. Bragdon can write well.”— The Tatler.
“ Mr. Bragdon writes and argues very well. . . .” — Times Literary Supplement.
Crown 8vo. 16 pp. Cloth. 4-r. 6d. net.
14 SPRING LIST OF BOOKS
COMTE DE GABALIS
by the Abbé N. de Montfaucon de Villars
Rendered out of French into English with a Commentary.
The title of this curious, learned and imaginative work is supposed to veil the
identity of a great mystic of the seventeenth century.
Demy 8vo. Illustrated. Cloth. 8/. 6d. net.
IN DEFENCE OF MAGIC
The Meaning and Use of Symbol and Rite
by Catharine Cook Smith
“ Will be read with pleasure by those who delight in mystic lore.”— East Anglian
Daily Times. “ Full of common sense, and is a book which will help those who fight
shy of all forms of ritual as a return to more primitive forms of faith, to realize how
much they miss by a too rigid rationalism.”— Immortality and Survival. “ We commend
it to the student who is at sea in a welter of conflicting views.”— Sunday Referee.
“Although the subject is treated, as space demands, in a somewhat sketchy manner,
the book loses nothing of value on this account. Rather it becomes, shorn of bulky
notes and instances, far more readable and entertaining.”— Birkenhead News.
Crown 8vo. 160 pp. Cloth. 5/. net.
Revised Edition
THE GREAT PYRAMID OF GHIZEH
From the Aspect of Symbolism and Religion
by Francis W. Chapman
A notable contribution to the literature of the Pyramid in its symbolical aspects
as embodying the great fundamental Principles of the Ancient Wisdom-Religion. It
contains many rich gems of thought gathered from the writings of sages, philosophers
and thinkers of all ages. A book of general interest as well as specially so to students
of Pyramid literature.
Demy 8vo. Pp. 293 and three Plates. 6s. 6d. net.
1th Impression
THE MEANING OF MASONRY
by W. L. Wilmshurst, P.M.
“ Among Freemasons it will be conceded that the author has justified the title of his
work. The book is distinguished by patient research, erudition, lofty ideals, and good
literary style. . . . Mr. Wilmshurst carries one far beyond the ordinary conception
of the Masonic Art.”— Yorkshire Post.
Demy 8vo. Bound in Buckram, ior. 6d. net.
SPRING LIST OF BOOKS 15
A Vindication of Food Reform and Nature Cure
DELIVERANCE FROM CANCER
by H. Reinheimer
Mr. ReinhSimer is the first to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the medical and
scientific world the importance of Symbiosis, both as regards evolution and the biology
of food. He shews that Nature’s supreme sanction favours the symbiotic way of life,
which is the vegetarian way. After matriculating at London University, Mr. Rein-
hjimer becami a medical student and eventually devoted his attention to the study of
biology. He has contributed to the leading scientific journals and has written some
sixteen books, all mainly concerned with “ vegetarian biology” . A vegetarian for 36
yearsjiMr. Reinheimer was a Vice-President of the International Vegetarian Congress
hel<jnn Paris in 1900. He served on the Executive of the London Federal Union, also
on the Council of the London Vegetarian Society, and is a Vice-President of the Kingston
and District Vegetarian Society.
Crown 8vo. 192 pp. Cloth. 5/. net.
A MANUAL OF OCCULTISM
A Complete Exposition of the Occult A rts and Sciences
by “Sepharial”
“A well-furnished store of information for students of the occult arts and sciences/'
— Light.
Crown 8vo. 368 pp. Cloth, gilt. With numerous diagrams and illustrations. 6/. net.
A PACK OF 78 TAROT CARDS
Exquisitely drawn and coloured, from new and original designs by Pamela Coleman
Smith. Each card has a separate allegorical meaning. This is without question the
finest and most artistic pack that has ever been produced.
Price 5/. in neat blue box.
Key 2/. 6d. Cards and Key in Box 7s. 6d.
A NEW MANUAL OF ASTROLOGY
by “Sepharial”
In four books. Book I : The Language of the Heavens. Book II: The Reading of
a Horoscope. Book III: The Measure of Time. Book IV : Hindu Astrology.
Demy 8vo. Cloth, gilt. 264 pp. 12/. 6d. net.
Librarj Edition
DRACULA
by Bram Stoker
D racula I Dead six hundred years, yet still living 1 Was he beast, man or vampire ?
This is a new edition of one of the most famous and enduring books of the world— a
novel of horror and thrills— which remains one of the most dramatic and imaginative
stories of mystery and the supernatural ever written.
Crown 8vo. 416 pp. Bound in full cloth. 3s. 6d. net.
[6 SPRING LIST OF BOOKS
TRUTH TACTFULLY CONVEYED
British Medical Journal says:—“The author has courageously tackled the funda­
mental facts and problems of everyday life.”
Medical Times says :—“An excellent example of how this delicate subject can be
handled with success.”
SEX PROBLEMS
SOLVED
FACTS FOR THE
MARRIED
PLAIN FACTS ON
SEX HYGIENE
CONFIDENTIAL CHATS
WITH BOYS
CONFIDENTIAL CHATS
WITH GIRLS
A clear and outspoken discussion of the
many andordinary difficulties which every
married couple has to face.
The three cardinal principles of complete
manhood or womanhood are moral,
physical, and sex health. Without sex
health there can be no surety of moral
and physical health.
Here arc instructions for avoiding the
great peril that is over all the land.
Parents can put this book into the
hands of their sons withentire confidence.
They supply what prudery and ignor­
ance have denied the modern girl.
New Edition
by Dr. William Lee Howard
Crown 8vo. is , each volume.
34-36 Paternoster Row, London, E.C.4
