{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1841__hale___second_advent_manual.pdf","mytitle":"Second Advent Manual","mylang":"de"}
\ SPEAK, AND NOT LIE: THOUGH IT
SECOND ADVENT LIBRARY.
NO. XXXVI.
JUNE I, 18 M.
THE
SECOND ADVENT MANUAL:
IN WHICH
THE OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE PROPHETIC
TIMES ARE CONSIDERED ,* THE DIFFICULTIES CON-
NECTED WITH THE CALCULATION EXPLAINED;
AND THE FACTS AND ARGUMENTS ON
WHICH MR. MILLER'S CALCULATIONS
ARE BRIEFLY 5
AND SUSTAINED.
WITH A DIAGRAM
By APOLLOS HALE.
B O S T O N :
PUBLISHED BY JOSHUA V. HIMES
14 Devonshire Street.
/ Three Sheets. Postage—under 100 miles, 4£ cts. ; over 100, 7] cts. \
DEPOT OF
SECOND ADVENT PUBLICATIONS,
14 DEVONSHIRE ST., OFFICE OF THE " SIGNS OF THETIMES."
AH communications relative to the Signs of the Times, and
Publications on the Second Advent, should be addressed to
JOSHUA V. HIMES, 14 Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass.
Important Works
ON THE PROPHECIES OF THE SECOND ADVENT
OP OUR LORD AND SAVIOR, JESUS CHRIST.
Miller on the Second Coming of Christ.—In one volume.
This work contains nineteen Lectures ; to which is added a
Supplement, containing a Chronological Chart of the prophetic
periods, with an explanation. Price 50 cents.
Miller's Life and Views.—In one vc .ume. This work con-
.ains a Sketch of Mr. Miller's Life, his Chronology, the Chart
and Exposition, eleven new lectures, reviews, letters, &c. Price
Bible Student's Manual.—This work is compiled from Mr-
Miller's works, designed for a pocket note-book and manual.
It contains the Chart, Rules of Interpretation, &c, with blank
paper, for notes. Price 25 cents. .„',„,
An Address to the Public, and especially the Clergy, on th
Near Approach of the Glorious, Everlasting Kingdom of Goi
on Earth. By J. Litch. Price 25 cents.
No. /., Second Advent Report of General Conference, held
in Boston, Oct. 14th, 15th, 1840. This is a very able and im-
portant document : it contains two discourses from Mr. Litch,
on the Second Advent—Chronology of Prophecy. One from
Rev. Henry Jones, on the Restoration of Israel. Two from
Mr. Miller, on the Chronology of the Prophetic Periods— Judg-
ment. One Discourse, in three parts, by H. D. Ward, on the
Millennium. 174 pages. Price, 37 cents in boards, 25 cenU
in pamphlet.
No. II., Second Advent Report of General Conference, held
in Lowell, June 15th, 16th, 17th, 1841. This is a very able
and important document : it contains the Proceedings of the
Conference, Circular Address, Dissertation on Christ's Second
Coming, Signs of Christ's Second Coming quickly, by Rev.
Henry Jones. The Kingdom of God on Eaith at hand, the
Fall of the Ottoman Empire, and Dissertation on the Millen-
nium, by Rev. Josiah Litch. Price $20 per hundred, and 26
tents single.
THE
SECOND ADVENT MANUAL:
IN WHICH
THE OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE PROPHETIC
TIMES ARE CONSIDERED ; THE DIFFICULTIES CON-
NECTED WITH THE CALCULATION EXPLAINED;
AND THE FACTS AND ARGUMENTS ON
WHICH MR. MILLER'S CALCULATIONS
REST, ARE BRIEFLY STATED
AND SUSTAINED.
WITH A DIAGRAM.
By APOLLOS HALE
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY JOSHUA V. HIMES,
14 Devonshire Street.
1843.
boston:
DOW ft JACKSON'S POWER PRESS.
14 Devonshire Street.
PRE FACE
It is not the design of this manual to enter into the
details of the Second Avent doctrine, as held by Mr.
Miller : these may be found in many of our publica-
tions, from the pen of Mr. Miller himself, and others.
Nor is it intended to be, in any sense, a critical work.
The writer makes no pretensions to the qualifications
which are indispensable to prepare one's self for exact,
learned, biblical criticism ; nor has he time. Those
who may desire, and have leisure, to make the proph-
ecies the subject of such attention, must necessarily
explore a wider field than would be consistent only to
give the outlines of it in a work of this kind.
Its design is to present the events of history on which
the calculations of the time are based, with the texts
and some of the arguments which justify the applica-
tion of the prophecies to these events, and to meet the
most important objections which are brought against
this application of the prophecies and the calculations
of which it is the basis.
Other periods and calculations form an interesting
portion of Mr. Miller's views, such as the Jubilees,
the Typical Sabbath, &c. ; but these are regarded
rather as incidental and collateral, and would not of
IV PREFACE.
themselves be supposed to furnish conclusive evidence
in support of any theory. The facts and arguments
in support of those prophetic periods only which are
deemed vital to the system, are contained in this
work.
The materials for this purpose are here presented
as the writer has been in the practice of using them,
when exhibiting the doctrine as a lecturer ; others can
use them as their taste or judgment may suggest.
The difficulty of access, with many readers, to the
original sources of the information contained in this
little volume ; the oft-repeated wish for such a com-
pilation ; the desire that as many as possible may be-
come established in what the writer considers the par-
ticular truth of our time ; and that all who will regard
its calls, and yield to its claims, may be prepared for
the scene which is to decide the destiny of men, and
which is rapidly hastening upon the world,—are the
motives for thus occupying the time which he is not
permitted, on account of ill health, to occupy at pres-
ent in lecturing.
Boston, May 1, 1843.
OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE PRO-
PHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED.
One mode by which the God of truth commends his
word to men, is, by exhibiting the absurdity, some-
times the wickedness, of the positions which are taken
in opposition to his truth. So Christ repelled the
blasphemous slander of the Jews, on one occasion , who
charged him with casting out devils through Beelzebub,
the prince of devils. " If I, by Beelzebub, cast out
devils, by whom do your sons cast them out?" Are
they connected with Beelzebub 1 So, also, the reply of
Christ to those who complained of him for receiving
" sinners and eating with them," was intended to con-
trast the position which they condemned with their
own position. As much as if he had said, " Yes, I re-
ceive sinners and eat with them—you do not ; very
well ; let us make a comparison or two. (See Luke
xv.) The father of the prodigal is on my side—and
the man who lost a sheep, he is on my side—and the
woman who lost a piece of silver, she is on my side
—
and the angels of God—these are all on my side. But
you don't receive sinners ! nor eat with them ; very
well, I do." Every age has had its contests for and
against some particular form of truth, and the opposi-
tion is always characterized by ignorance and absurdity.
If ever there was a time when all the antitypes of
the old recorded enemies of the truth, from the magi-
cians of Egypt to Simon Magus, were on the stage at
once, and all of them actively engaged, the day in
which we live must be the time ; and if there is any
one particular part or form of truth in reference to
1*
6 OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE
which their special anxiety is manifested, it is the sub-
lime and clearly stated doctrine of Christ's second
coming. No person who is at all acquainted with the
subject can doubt for a moment, that, if a heathen
should come among us, and compare the various and
contradictory opinions which prevail everywhere, in
reference to it, he must certainly think that the Bible
has said nothing about the subject, or that we do not
believe our Bibles. The Bible, however, has predicted
exactly the state of things which we now witness upon
this subject ; it has warned us in view of it, and point-
ed oat the only safety—''Behold," says Christ, "I
have told you before," &c. Matt. xxiv. 25. " Be
mindful of the words which were spoken before by the
holy prophets, and of the commandment of us the
apostles of the Lord and Saviour : knowing this first,
that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking
after their own lusts, and saying, Where is the promise
of his coming]" &c. 2 Pet. hi. 2—4.
But the particular question involved in the subject,
against which " the head and tail" of society is moved,
is the question of time. This is the question against
which the scoffing infidelity, refined and vulgar,—much
of the reputed christian wisdom,—and not a little of the
undoubted piety of the land, stand forth in their most
expressive attitudes of scorn, contempt, or horror.
To the infidelity we have no apology to make, (though
we rejoice to know that not a few of its more candid
votaries have been converted to Christ, through the
special instrumentality of Mr. Miller.) To the literati
ecclesiastical, who look upon Mr. Miller with so many
airs of affronted superiority,—we say, Point out the
mistakes , and give us a more scriptural explanation of
these prophecies. We solemnly aver, that if any man
will do this, we will not only abandon the explanation
now defended, but we will labor to disseminate the bet-
ter one to the utmost of our ability ; but, to tell us that
we have " no business to meddle with the prophecies,"
or that "we cannot understand the prophecies until
they are fulfilled," will not do. We have never been
PROPHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED. 7
able to perceive the value of a chart that would not tell
the sailor where to find his port, until after he had ar-
rived. We have become the disciples, and advocates,
of Mr. Miller's theory from a sincere conviction of its
truth, in opposition to all our prejudices and worldly
interests,—we do not wish to be deceived ourselves,
and we would not for our lives deceive others. If we
are mistaken, we will thank any man to set us right.
To the piety of the land we bow with the most sincere
respect and tender sympathy. We would not take a
step or speak a word to give offence for our right
hand, and wherein we may seem to offend we frankly
and fully give the reasons for so doing. We feel that
we have the fullest authority, from the plain statements
and directions of the word of God, to give our attention
to this particular question ; and that we have every
reason to believe, from the prophecies, the events of
history, and the signs of the times, that the period has
come for the question of time to be understood. That
it has generally been supposed, in every age of the
church, that the time in which the end of all things is
to take place, is indicated to us in the prophecies of
Daniel, we might give a long list of her most worthy
names to prove ; and although there may have been a
difference of opinion upon the time for commencing
the prophetic periods of his visions, every age, we be-
lieve, has spoken with the strongest confidence that
they would be understood before the end should actu-
ally come ; but if the church had not thus looked upon
the subject during this long period, the statements and
directions of the apostles would be sufficient to settle
that point. Peter has given us an undoubted explana-
tion of the design of these prophecies of Daniel in par-
ticular, (though others of course are included,) and he,
with Christ and the other apostles, directs us repeatedly
to the prophets for " light." Luke xvi. 29—31 ; xxiv.
25 ; Rom. xvi. 25, 26 ; Rev. i. 3—10 ; x. 5—7 ; Jude
14—18.
Let us hear Peter. —1 Peter i. 3—13. For whose
benefit did the prophets understand their message to be
8 OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE
intended 1 Unto whom (the prophets) it was revealed,
that not unto themselves, but unto us they did min<-
ister the things ivhch are now reported unto you by
them that have preached the gospel unto you with the
Holy Ghost sent down from heaven ; which things the
angels desire to look into. v. 12. Here, then, are
" things" brought to view, to communicate which the
prophets " did minister ;" and " them that have preach-
ed the gospel with the Holy Ghost sent down from
heaven, have reported;" and " which the angels desire
to look into." Now if these " things" should happen
to involve the coming of Christ, and the time of his
coming, let those sneer and scoff who will ; they do it
not to men, but unto God.
What, then, are the " things ," in reference to which
it is said, " unto us they did minister 1" 1. " The
prophets have inquired and searched diligently,—search-
ing what the spirit of Christ which icas in them did
signify," " when it testified beforehand" of a
"salvation" which consisted "of the grace that should
come unto you," and which you should receive " as the
end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls."
v. 9, 10. What grace? " The grace that is to be
brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus
Christ." v. 13. And the "salvation" was that
" unto" which they were " kept by the power of
God, through faith," and their faith looked " to an
inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth
not away, reserved in heaven"—and " ready to be
revealed in the last time." v. 4, 5. Which " faith,
more precious than gold which perisheth, though tried
with fire," the apostle desired " might be found unto
praise and honor and glory at the appearing of
Jesus Christ." v. 7. These " things" are " what"
" the prophets inquired about, and apostles reported,"
and " angels desire to look into."
2. " The prophets have inquired and searched dili-
gently what manner of time the spirit of Christ
which ivas in them did signify, when it testified before-
hand the sufferings of Christ, and the glory that
PROPHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED. 9
should follow." v. 11. The " time," which refer-
red to "the sufferings of Christ," has been filled up.
" The glory " which belongs particularly to " his ap-
pearing and kingdom," has not yet been realized. The
70 weeks which indicated the time of the sufferings of
Christ, explain the " manner" in which the prophetic
times of Daniel are to be understood ; and by their ex-
act fulfilment give us a demonstration that u at the
time appointed the end shall be," when Daniel saw "one
like the Son of man come with the clouds of heaven,
and came to the Ancient of days, and they brought him
near before him. And there was given him dominion,
and glory, and a kingdom, that all people, nations, and
languages, should serve him : his dominion is an ever-
lasting dominion f which shall not pass away, and his
kingdom, that which shall not be destroyed." Dan.
vii. 13, 14. " When the Son of man shall come in his
glory, and all the holy angels with him, then
shall he sit upon the throne of his glory;"
(Matt. xxv. 31 ;)
" and them that sleep in the dust of
the earth shall awake ; and they that be wise shall
shine as the brightness of the firmament ; and they
that turn many to righteousness as the stars forever
and ever."
That Daniel is particularly referred to by the apostle
here, is evident from three considerations. 1. He is
the only one of the prophets who has given us the
time in connection with " the sufferings of Christ, and
the glory that should follow." Dan. chapters ix. xii.
2. To him " it was revealed that not unto himself he
did minister," in the things named by the apostle.
Dan. viii. 26, 27 ; xii. 4, 8,^9. 3. " The angels" are
brought to view as having taken a particular interest
in these "things" when communicated to Daniel.
Dan. vii. 16 ; viii. 13, 14, 16 ; ix. 21 ; x. 10—21 ; xii.
5—7.
Now to Daniel, with the other prophets, we are
specially directed to guide us on this subject. (2 Peter
iii. 1, 2.) To their " word" we do well that we take
heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until
10 OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE
the day dawn.'" 2 Peter i. 19. And by the plain
terms of the prophecy of Daniel itself, the vision is to
be understood " at the time of the end :"—that is, a
short period before the end shall actually come. And
is there not good reason to believe, that, according to
every series of prophetic events, we have nothing else to
look for but M the end?" Can any man put his finger
upon the prophecies, and point out a single event,
which has not already taken place, except those events
which are to accompany or follow the coming of
Christ? And while these prophecies all tell us that
the " time of the end" is come ;
" the signs" which
were immediately to precede his coming, have given
their note of teaming and retired, or are now hovering
over the very point we occupy, to assure us that his com-
ing " is near, even at the doors !"
Hare we not reason, then, to believe that the time
has come for the vision to be unsealed 1 May we not
expect to understand the " time" as well as the other
" things" of which it speaks ! For ourselves, we think
there is at least tenfold more reason to believe that the
end of all things will come before another year shall
have passed away, (though we cannot but expect it
every day and every hour,) than those who were ex-
posed to the deluge—the fires of Sodom—the famins
of Egypt, her plagues and the ruin of her armies—the
destruction of Babylon or Jerusalem, had to expect
those events at the time they came. We are sure no
truly serious person, whose mind is sufficiently en-
lightened upon the prophetic scriptures to appreciate
at all their clear and full and awful burden, will lightly
treat this question.
CONSEQUENCES.
But you object to making calculations of the time
for fear of consequences. What consequences ? Why,
if we make our " calculations of the time and the event
does not come, others will not believe when it is actu-
ally coming." Well, perhaps the snare which you
are anticipating for other generations, is the one in
PROPHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED. 11
which the present generation may be taken. That
others who have fixed the time, have been mistaken,
we know, and that should inspire us with modesty and
caution ; but it no more proves that the truth can never
be known upon the subject, than the fact that men have
been mistaken on other subjects proves that the truth
on those subjects can never be discovered. And, after
all, is it not better that there should be ten false alarms,
than that there should be one surprise without any
warning ? And may it not be as likely that the false
alarms in times past have been given by the great en-
emy to lull the present generation to sleep, that they
may be taken in the " snare," as that this is a false
alarm to which some future generation may point as a
means of quieting themselves when the end, as you
suppose, may actually come'?
You tell us again—"It wT
ill make infidels, if we
make such calculations, and the end don't come."
Who will be made infidels? Not those, surely, who
are opposed to our views. And it would be remarka-
ble indeed if those who are neutral, or "halting be-
tween two opinions," should suppose the Bible has
failed, and therefore " throw it away," after time shall
have proved our views not to be the correct explanation
of it, when they now decline to receive our views as
the doctrine of the Bible.
There can be none to " make infidels" of, then, but
believers of the doctrine. And why should they turn
infidels'? They have taken their position not simply
from what they believe the prophetic periods to teach,
but also from those prophecies which bring the end to
view in connection with the history of the world, and
" the signs of the times ;" so that we must still believe
the end to be near, even if the year ?
43 should pass
away, though we may not fix upon any other time for
the event. And we think those who have exhibited
fortitude enough to bear the opposition already shown
to them on account of their faith, will not be quite
ready to turn infidel even if they should see a few more
years on earth, and it should be their lot to suffer more
12 OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE
than they have yet suffered. May we here ask our
brethren to pray that they may have grace enough to
bear with us, if we should not happen to turn infidels,
should we be spared to see '44, though their predictions ,
in that case, might fail as well as our calculations?
But this objection anticipates the results with as
much confidence as any " prophet" might be permitted
to do. We do not see any special necessity for such
a conclusion. Why should the non-fulfilment of proph-
ecy according to our calculations lead to more startling
results than in other cases 1 According to the calcu-
lations of Professor Stuart, Mr. Dowling, and a host
of others who believe with them, these prophetic times
have never been fulfilled, and are they infidels? We
can, at least, fall into the popular current
—
"have
nothing to do with the prophecies"—and be as good
Christians as others. We would ask, in turn, where is
the propriety, in reference to this particular subject, of
leaving the question, first to be considered, Is it true?
and passing to the question, What will be the results?
or, in looking at the results, to inquire, " What if it
don't come?" instead of asking, What if it does come?
A.11 the danger lies there. What if it does come?
OBJECTIONS.
Our object, however, in this article, is to direct your
attention to the character of the objections to these
calculations. If the calculations are so very " absurd"
and " ridiculous," it could be no very difficult thing for
some of their able opposers to point out some mistake
in the facts or dates on which they are based, or in the
principles involved in the theory, without resorting to
falsehood and slander, or at least without throwing
away the most valuable labors of the old defenders of
the Bible and Protestantism, or certainly without im-
peaching the Bible itself.
But we assert it, in the full expectation of speedily
meeting the Judge of all the earth, that we do not know
of a single writer who has opposed the doctrine, (and
some of them we would not speak lightly of, as Chris-
tians, for our right hand,) who has not entirely omitted
PROPHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED. 13
the only inquiry, which, in the very nature of the case,
could amount to any thing, and apparently labored for
the mastery in some one or all of the above fruitless,
not to say wicked experiments.
No doubt they supposed they were doing God ser-
vice, and that the cause they had undertaken to defend,
demanded the best efforts which could be made for it
;
and as these were the only efforts they could make, it
did not probably occur to them that they were doing
evil that good might come, as they understood it, or
that they were making concessions to the cause they
opposed which must satisfy all candid spectators of the
contest, that nothing could be fairly done against it.
We shall speak only of the objections brought
against the calculation of the time. And yet not all
of them against this, but against that view of it which
brings the time so near ; for many who pretend to ob-
ject to "fixing the time" as they call it, when the
calculations which bring us to the end in '43 are men-
tioned, go right on and make other calculations which
put it off perhaps 20, 50, 100, or 1000 years " to come. 1 '
CHRONOLOGY OF THE WORLD.
It is said there are difficulties connected with the
subject which make it impossible to fix upon any thing
with certainty, and none but fanatics will have any
thing to do with it. We will say nothing of the re-
flection which such a view of the subject casts upon
God, who ha? directed us to the prophecies to guide
us in the midst of the greatest dangers, for what is it
but tantalizing us to give such a direction if the proph-
ecies cannot answer their design? The supposed dif-
ficulties, however, are not so great as we at first sight
might apprehend. " It is impossible," we are told,
" for any one to tell the age of the world." Very
well. No one pretends to tell, positively, how long
the world has stood, but still it is believed there are
serious reasons for supposing that its age is not far
from 6000 years. And if a general tradition,—which
supposes that the present order of things is to be
14 OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE
changed at the end of six thousand years, and which
appears to be founded upon some portions of the word
of God, may be worthy of our attention,—from what
we can tell of the chronology of the world, it appears
to harmonize with the more certain indications of the
plainer prophecies. Dr. Weeks has strung up a cata-
logue of what he calls " mistakes of Mr. Miller and his
friends, in relation to his chronology," to the number
of sixty. He might, on the same principle, have car-
ried the number up to as many thousands, and then he
might find as many more in every other system of
chronology. But how he will make the apparent con-
tradictory statements of Josephus ; and the variations
from Ferguson, Rollin and Jahn, with Mr. Miller's
literary and theological deficiencies, " mistakes of Mr.
Miller and his friends in relation to his chronology,"
and all this without any criterion lyy which to make the
test,—those who have the time and ability to devote to
the subject can tell better than we. If any one should
think it worth the while to make a new collection of
" Curiosities of Literature," they would find the Doc-
tor's article a rare specimen ; it would be a perfect
match for the celebrated performance of a clerical pro-
totype, who preached some dozen sermons on the
letter O. We wonder if the Doctor ever had anything
to do with a permutation lottery ! The Doctor seems
to have fallen into the common " mistake" of making
a jest of the subject, and to have forgotten that he is
old enough to " put away childish things." The fact
that our Bible adopts the Hebrew record of time, and
that this has been deemed of superior merit to the
Samaritan, Septuagint, &c, is argument enough in
favor of the source of our chronology, in the mind of
all but those whose hyper-criticism has destroyed or
impaired their confidence in the truth and faithfulness
of God. And until some one can show that we may
not rely upon it, or will furnish a better account, we
cannot but regard its statements with some respect.
That the Hebrew text gives a correct record of time
from Adam to Moses, and from Saul to the time when
PROPHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED. 15
the Old Testament scriptures close, we think there is
little room to doubt. The period from which the diffi-
culties arise is the time of the Judges. We have, so
to speak, the depots and mile-posts all along on the
track of time from Adam down to that period, and
again from Saul down to the time of Ezra and Nehe-
miah. According to Mr. Miller's calculation of the
period of the Judges, the time before Christ was 4157
years ; according to Usher, 4004. That Mr. M. is near
the truth, we have no doubt ; that he or any other man
can tell the exact time, we do not expect. The time
given for that period by Paul, Acts xiii. 20, is very
strongly in favor of Mr. Miller's chronology.
Dr. Clarke, in his preface to the book of Judges,
makes this remark on " the Chronology of Archbishop
Usher on this period," which is the standard generally
adopted : " Its correctness is justly questioned.' 1
Dr. Clarke also quotes from Dr. Hales as follows :
" It is truly remarkable, and a proof of the great skill
and accuracy of Josephus in forming the outline of this
period, that he assigns, with St. Paul, a reign of forty
years to Saul, (Acts xiii. 21,) which is omitted in the
Old Testament. His outline also corresponds, with St.
Paul's period of four hundred and fifty years from the
division of the conquered land of Canaan, until Samuel
the prophet." See Dr. Hales' Chronology, vol. i. pp.
16, 17 ; vol. ii. p. 28.
Now if the reader will take the trouble to examine
Mr. Miller's chronology, in the diagram appended to
this article, and compare it with the Bible, he can
judge, perhaps as well as any one, of its claims to his
serious consideration. But let that be correct or not,
the prophetic periods which are involved in his theory
are not affected by it ; they all begin this side of the
time of the Judges. In reference to these there is not
the uncertainty which exists in reference to the chro-
nology of the world.
The supposition has been named that the addition of
153 )rears to the age of the world must derange the
whole matter of the prophetic times, by throwing the
16 OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE
date of events into confusion. A simple illustration will
show that these dates are not affected by this addition.
In the following diagram, B B represents the time
from Adam to Joshua. C C the time from Samuel to
Christ. D D represents the period of the Judges,
according to the shorter calculation. E E the same
period according to the longer calculation.
D_ D
B B C C
E E
The period from Samuel to Christ is no more ac-
cording to one calculation of the period of the Judges
than the other. And all the intermediate periods or
dates between Samuel and Christ stand related to each
other exactly alike, according to either computation of
the period of the Judges. Now all the prophetic pe-
riods involved in Mr. Miller's theory begin after Sam-
uel ; so that the addition of 153 years before his time
only affects the relation of the events in the two grand
sections of time which lie before and after the Judges,
to each other : that is, it makes the time from Adam
to Christ, or from Moses to Christ, 153 years longer;
but as the prophetic periods all begin this side of
Samuel, they are not affected by the addition.
" miller's rule."
Again it is charged upon Mr. Miller as the very
climax of " absurdity" and " ignorance," that he
reckons the prophetic periods by supposing them to
express in days the number of years intended. And
to make the alleged absurdity most palpable, we have
been told by those who prefer the charge, that " Mil-
ler's rule of a day for a year would leave Nebuchad-
nezzar at grass at the present time and 130 years to
remain. And apply it to the 70 years captivity of the
Jews at Babylon, they have at present more time to
fulfil than has yet elapsed;" and "that the end of
this world, on his own terms, cannot come yet for
thousands of years!" It is no new thing for those
PROPHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED. 17
who are base enough to attempt to make fools of
their neighbors, sometimes to make fools of them-
selves.
" These calculations" which are ignorantly or de-
signedly ascribed to Mr. Miller, or are said to be
" according to his rule," are no more " according to
his rule" than the calculations in " Bowditch's Practi-
cal Navigator."
The rule of Mr. Miller in the case is precisely that
of every intelligent writer upon the interpretation of the
word of God, including some of his most noted and
influential opposers. We will insert the rules given
by Home, a standard author in biblical interpretation,
that the reader may compare them with the rules of
Mr. Miller.
ii
The received signification of a word is to be retain-
ed, unless weighty and necessary reasons require that it
should be abandoned or neglected.'''' Home's Introduc-
tion, vol. ii. p. 504. " Where the literal meaning of
words is contrary either to common sense, to the context,
to parallel passages, or to the scope of a passage, it must
be given up.'''' lb. p. 583. And again, in giving the
meaning of the word day, in his " Index to the Sym-
bolical Language of the Scripture," he says, " Day—
1. A year in prophetical language. Ezek. iv. 6 ; Rev.
ii. 10. 2. An appointed tune or season. Isa. xxxiv.
8; lxiii. 4." Vol. iv. p. 494.
The rule of Professor Stuart is similar to the first
one given by Home. Hints, p. 68.
We insert Mr. Dowling's view of the rule in ques-
tion, with the note he has appended, for the sake of
the important testimony it contains in favor of it—
a
witness who will not be suspected of any partiality in
the case.
" I believe, as Mr. Miller does, and indeed most protestant
commentators, that the 1260 years denote the duration of the
dominion of the Papal Antichrist."
<{
We have every reason to conclude that the time of the con-
tinuance of this persecuting power is equally true, viz : a time,
times, and half a time, which, we have before seen, is the pro-
2*
18 OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE
Shetical designation of 1260 years."* Dowling's Reply to Mr.
Iiiler, pp. 26, 27, 42. N. York Edition.
We here add the rules of Mr. Miller.
" How to know when a word is used figuratively. If it makes
good sense as it stands, and does no violence to the simple
laws of nature, then it must be understood literally, if not, fig-
uratively. Rev. xii. 1,2; xvii. 3—7.
Figures sometimes have two or more different significations,
as day is used in a figurative sense to represent three different
periods of time.
1. Indefinite. Eccles. vii. 14.
2. Definite, a day for a year. Ezek. iv. 6.
3. Day for a thousand years. 2 Pet. iii. 8.
If you put on the right construction it will harmonize with
the Bible and make good sense, otherwise it will not."
Now all the contempt which is cast upon Mr. Miller,
under the pretence that his rule is " absurd," &c, is
cast equally upon the worthiest men who have ever
lived, including the prophets and apostles themselves.
But those writers who object to Mr. Miller's rule,
give us no other by which these prophecies can be
understood, and this might be passed over, if they did
not profess to explain them. We might name at least a
score of men who have made the promise and the at-
tempt, but have had to confess, often in plain words,
that they could not make out an explanation.
*I have read attentively the attempt of a distinguished Hebrew
scholar, in the Biblical Repository, to prove that days in pro-
phetical language are always to be understood literally, and
never signify years, but am by no means convinced by his argu-
ments. The interpretation of the prophecies in which these
expressions are found, is infinitely more improbable and incon-
sistent, upon his scheme, than upon that which understands in
these passages, as Ezekiel was commanded, (ch. iv. 6,) "a
day for a year." Even the weight of authority is vastly in
favor of this latter interpretation. On the former side, are, I
suppose, most of the Andover school of divines, sitting at the feet
of their German oracles, from whom the doctrine advocated in
the above article is imported ; and on the other, such men as
Sir Isaac Newton, Bishop Newton, Mede, Faber, Adam
Clarke, Scott, Fuller, Robert Hall, fcc.
PROPHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED. 19
While the writer was lecturing in New York city,
a practising lawyer there who became somewhat inter-
ested in the subject, attended one of the churches in
the city, in which a notice had been given out of an
evening lecture against Mr. Miller's theory. The
house was crowded, and the minister for the occasion
read an article of about half an hour's length, which
was of the usual character. The next time I fell
in with my friend, I inquired about the lecture
against us. " 0," said he, " he used up Mr. Miller
at once." Ah, indeed, how did he do that?- " Why,
he proved to us that the Bible was not true." Well,
I replied, if he has done that, we are used up. It is a
gone case. If the Bible is not true, Millerism is dead,
(or to that effect.) Then, explaining himself, he said,
that according to what the preacher called the fulfil-
ment of the prophecies considered, though applied in
the past, they had never been fulfilled, and of course
the Bible could not be true. How many others have
placed themselves and the Bible in the same predica-
ment, it would be impossible to tell.
Now if the contempt shown to the above old and
venerable writers on the prophecies were not enough to
fix upon these men the brand of theological infamy, their
treatment of the word of God will do it. It is virtually
saying, His word is not exactly true. A higher au-
thority has said, " Heaven and earth shall pass away,
but my word shall not pass away." Matt. xxiv. 35.
But these writers are forced to take this position
or yield in silence to Mr. Miller. It is the best they
can do, if they do any thing against his views, or it
remains yet to be done.
Mr. Miller only advances upon the track of time as
it has been extended since the days of these worthy
laborers in the interpretation of the prophecies, referred
to above, and, guided by the same principles, he finds
them confirmed, as the prophecies have been filled up
by the events of history. The position taken by his op-
ponents may be considered as one of the most striking
and clearly marked " signs of the times."
SO OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE
DIFFERENT MODES OF RECKONING TIME.
Again we are pointed to sundry difficulties in the
way of calculating the time. It is said the difference
in the mode of computing time at different periods,
makes it impossible to tell when the prophetic periods
run out, even if we can tell when they begin. We
will let one speak for a great many. * 4
Our readers are
aware that the ancient mode of reckoning the year was
by 360 days. The 2300 years of Daniel were of course
years of 360 days each ; in these 2300 years, the 490
years are included : but everybody knows that we
count 365 days in the year. This fact has been over-
looked. The 1810 years which remain of the 2300,
after the accomplishment of the 490 years, are too long
by 5 days and 6 hours each, and this makes a differ-
ence of upwards of 26 years. We must therefore de-
duct 26 years from 1843, and this takes us back to the
year 1817, when, if this scheme had been correct, the
world would have been destroyed." Protestant Ban-
ner, July 19th, 1843.
We may reply with the strictest propriety in the
language of the Protestant Banner. " It is seldom
that so large an amount of arrogance, egotism, and
ignorance is found condensed in a single sentence
;
but the author possesses the faculty of condensing
these elements in a wonderful degree." The P.
B. must presume very largely upon the ignorance of
its " readers," to suppose them to be " aware that the
ancient mode of reckoning the year was by 360 days."
We challenge the P. B. or any other Banner to point
out a single nation, " ancient" or modern, whose mode
of reckoning the year was by 360 days. If it can be
shown that this was ever " the mode of reckoning the
year," it certainly has not been since the time stated for
the commencement of these obnoxious prophetic periods.
SeePrid. Con. Preface ; Tegg's Chronology, and Roll.
It is of very doubtful credit to the emphasized "ice"
of the P. B. that " everybody knows that we count
PROPHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED. 21
365 days to the year." In our part of the country we
have 3G6 once in a while. And this talk about the
difference between the ancient and modern computation
of the year, and the years that are lost on account of
it, is really amusing. We wonder if the sun, moon
and stars stood still to accommodate the supposed
" ignorance" of the ancients, so that the natural year
should agree with theirs ! If not, what a state of
''confusion confounded
1
'
must things have got into
when winter came in July, summer in January, autumn
in March, and spring in October. At any rate, they
might have sung, without any poetic license, once in
a while, " December 's as pleasant as May." Though
one would suppose they would have felt more like
singing with the German poet, especially when May
should find the thermometer below zero,
—
" The world is out of joint,
O, cursed spite !
That ever I was born
To set it right."
But perhaps they had some P. B. or Rev. Mr.
Thomas or Colver, to keep things straight for them.
The great unerring standard of time which God es-
tablished when he set the sun, moon, and stars to be
for signs and for seasons, for days and years, has never
varied. And however men have computed time, God's
years have always been the same. Moreover, it has
been the work of astronomers, mathematicians, chron-
ologers and historians, since men were upon the earth,
to bring their defective computations to correspond
with the true natural year—the time required for
the earth to pass from a particular point in its orbit
round to the same point, usually beginning at the
equinoxes. This time, it has been demonstrated, is
365 days, 5 hours and a fraction.
It was by referring to this never varying standard
that the necessity of the leap year was discovered. It
was this which led to the change of 0. S. for N. S.
—
So with the ancients and their modes of reckoning the
year. There is pretty clear evidence that they knew
22 OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE
enough about astronomy to know when the sun shined,
and to know day from night, and winter from summer ;
and they knew enough to make up the deficiency in
their current years by intercalary months or days, as
the case required ;
just as we should have to do at a
broker's in exchanging money on which there might
be 5 or 10 per cent discount, to get par money,—we
must add enough to ours to make it of equal value with
his. They always had the true solar year as much as
we have, whether their current year included the whole
of it or not ; and they always contrived some way to
keep the current and natural year along together, near
enough at least not to lose more than a whole year
every century.
These lost years are all nonsense, and would never
have been mentioned but by men whose u arrogance,
egotism and ignorance" are of a sufficiently " large
amount" to disqualify them to perceive that they have
lost their reckoning. Rollin tells us, (vol. ii. p. 627,
Harpers' Edition,)
M Though all nations may not agree with one another in the
manner of determining their years, some regulating them by
the motion of the sun, and others by that of the moon, they,
however, generally use the solar year in chronology. It seems
at first, that as the lunar years are shorter than the solar, that
inequality should produce some error in chronological calcula-
tions. But it is to be observed, that the nations who used
lunar years, added a certain number of intercalary days to make
them agree with the solar : which makes them correspond with
each other ; or at least, if there be any difference, it may be
neglected, when the question is only to determine the year in
which a fact happened.
"
But the years used in the Bible history were undoubt-
edly Jewish years, so that we know exactly the " dif-
ference" to be considered, and what* allowance to
make for lost time. Home, vol. hi. pp. 166, 167, 297.
" The ecclesiastical or sacred year began in March, or on
the first day of the month Nisan, because at that time they de-
parted out of Egypt.'* "The Jewish months were originally
calculated from the first appearance of the moon, on which the
Feast of the New Moon, or beginning of months (as tlie He-
PROPHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED, 23
brews termed it) was celebrated. Exod. xii. 2 ; Num. x. 10;
xxviii. 11." " The Jewish months being regulated by the pha-
ses or appearances of the moon, their years were consequently
lunar years, consisting of twelve lunations, or 354 days and 8
hours ; but as the Jewish festivals were held not only on cer-
tain fixed days of the month, but also at certain seasons of the
year, consequently great confusion would, in process of time,
arise by this method of calculating : the spring month some-
times falling in the middle of winter, it became necessary to
accommodate the lunar to solar years, in order that their
months, and consequently their festivals, might always fall at
the same season. For this purpose, the Jews added a whole
month to the year, as often as it was necessary ; which occur-
red commonly once in three years, and sometimes once in two
years. This intercalary month was added at the end of the
ecclesiastical year after the month Adar, and was therefore
called Ve-Adar, or the second Adar."
Now by regulating the " lunar years" so as to cor-
respond with the " solar," their years must, of neces-
sity, at every nineteenth, correspond, " within an hour
and a half," with the same number of solar years, a
" difference" which would not amount to one month
in six thousand years ;* so that the " scheme" of the
*" The Lunar Cycle, called also the Golden Number, is the
revolution of nineteen years, at the end of which the moon re-
turns, within an hour and a half, to the same point with the
sun, and begins its lunations again in the same order as at
first." Rollin, vol. 2, p. 627.
" From the very time of the original institution of the
Passover, the observance of it was fixed to the fourteenth day
of the first month Nisan, otherwise denominated Abib, or the
month of green ears, at which time in Judea the harvest was
beginning : and, in a similar manner, the feast of tabernacles
was fixed to the middle of the seventh month Tisri, and to the
time of the ending of the vintage. Now, these feasts were
thus observed—The Passover they celebrated on the fourteenth
day of Nisan or Abib by killing the paschal lamb : the fifteenth
was the first of the days of unleavened bread, and was ordain-
ed to be kept as a sabbath : and on the morrow after this
sabbath, as being the beginning of the barley-harvest, they
were directed to bring a sheaf of the first-fruits for a
wave-offering before the Lord. The feast of tabernacles
they celebrated on the fifteenth day of Tisri : and this festi-
val was also called the feast of ingathering, because it was cel-
ebrated after they had gathered in their corn and their wine.
24 OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE
P. B. and its worthy coadjutors, " which takes us back
to the year 1817, when the world would have been
destroyed," will afford no relief to their " readers,"
except to those whose " ignorance" may be of a suffi-
cient " degree" to disqualify them to appreciate the
more " wonderful" "arrogance" and " egotism" of
the writers.
PROPHETIC AND SOLAR YEARS.
" But does not Mr. Miller reckon some years at 360
and some at 365 days 1
'
' No—unless you refer to the
prophetic years, as distinguished from chronological
or historical years. In history and chronology no
other years are ever used but true solar years. Pro-
phetic years, generally called " times" in scripture,
are always of 360 .days. God has so explained them
in his word (compare Rev. xii. 6 and 14) ; and the
If then the ancient Jewish year consisted of no more than 360
days, and if it were neither annually lengthened by the addition
of five supernumerary days, nor occasionally regulated by month-
ly intercalations, it is evident, that all the months, and among
them the months Abib and Tisri, must have rapidly revolved
through the several seasons of the year. Hence it is equally
evident, since the Passover and the feast of tabernacles were
fixed, the one to the fourteenth day of Abib and the other to
the fifteenth day of Tisii, that they must similarly have re-
volved through the seasons. Such being the case, how would
it be possible to observe the ordinances of the law, when the
months Abib and Tisri had passed into opposite seasons of the
solar year ? How could the Jews, in the climate of Judea, offer
the first fruits of their harvest after the Passover, when the
month Abib, in which it was celebrated, had passed into
autumn or winter 1 And how could they observe the feast of
tabernacles, as a feast of the ingathering of their corn and
their wine, in the month of Tisri, when that month had passed
into spring or summer 1 It. is plain, that, unless Abib and
Tisri always kept their places in the solar year, unless Abib
were always a vernal month and Tisri an autumnal month,
the Passover and the feast of tabernacles could not have been
duly observed. And hence it is equally plain, that the an-
cient Jews could not have reckoned by years of 360 days with-
out some expedient to make those years fall in with solar
years." Faber, vol. i. pp. 12—14.
PROPHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED, 25
history of fulfilled prophecy corresponds with that ex-
planation.
When these two modes of time are used in reckon-
ing, prophetic years are never put alongside of solar
years as if they were to be matched together as years ;
i. e. it is not to be supposed that the seven times, for
instance, are to be matched with seven solar years :
—
nor, as some have thought, are we, 1st, to suppose the
days in the prophetic period indicates a corresponding
number of solar years ; and 2d, that the period thus ob-
tained is to be compared with the same number of pro-
phetic years ; and 3d, to get at the result, deduct, the
difference between the prophetic and solar years from
the whole period ; but prophetic or symbolic times
are always interpreted to mean as many true solar
years as there are days in the period considered.
" Each day" of the prophetic period represents a true
solar year—there being 2520 days in 7 times, under-
stood symbolically, the period expresses 2520 true
solar years. Prophetic time is the measure, true time
the article to be measured. There is the same differ-
ence between the measure and the article to be meas-
ured in this case that there is in all other cases : the
measure is an arbitrary abstract rule, by which the
natural aud real thing is to be measured off for use.
DIFFERENCE IN THE DATES OF THE BIRTH OF CHRIST.
It has been supposed again that the difference offour
years, between the true date of the birth of Christ and
A. D., affects the exact -application of one of the most
important prophetic periods, the 2300 days or years of
Daniel viii. The 70 weeks, a part of this period, ter-
minated when " Messiah" was "cut off" " to make
reconciliation for iniquity," " and to anoint the Most
Holy." One week, or seven years, he was to " con-
firm the covenant with many." In determining this
question
—
How did Christ confirm the covenant one
week, or seven years?—it has been ascertained, from
what the sacred historians say of the age of Christ
when he commenced his ministry, (Luke iii. 1 —23
;
3
26 OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE
Mark i. 6—15 ; Acts x. 30, 37,) and of the facts con-
nected with his birth and death, that he was 37 vears of
age when " cut off "—that he was " cut off" A.D. 33—
that he was born four years " before the account called
Anno Domini," and therefore, as he commenced his
ministry at 30, he confirmed the covenant, according
to the prophecy, by preaching 7 years. These facts
have all been proved, not to say demonstrated. But
the caviller has started a new difficulty, though others
besides cavillers may have been entangled with it. It
is this :
" If Christ, was born 4 years before A. D., and
was 37 at his death, then the 70 weeks did not run out
till the true A. D. 37, and the 2300 days, or years,
cannot end till A. D. 1847." Now in determining the
question whether the 70 weeks, as a whole, were ful-
filled, so as to " seal up," or make sure " the vision"
which ends at the termination of the 2300 days or
years, we have nothing at all to do with the birth or
age of Christ, we only want to know when he was
44
cut off;" as to this simple question, it matters not
whether he wr
as 20, 30, or 50 years of age at the time.
In determining the question, whether Christ confirmed
the covenant one week, or seven years, by his personal
ministry, as we know his age when it began, we must
ascertain his age at his death. In the other question,
whether the 70 weeks expired at his death, we must
ascertain whether it took place 70 weeks or 490 years
from the £ohi£ forth of the commandment referred to.
The 70 weeks were so fulfilled, and God by them has
sealed the vision. Christ did confirm the covenant, by
his personal ministry, 7 years—he was 37 when he died,
A. D. 33, and was therefore born 4 years before the
" account commonly called A. D." See note D. in
the Diagram.
But let not the caviller make the correction in one
particular part of the calculation, in order to introduce
difficulties, which, when the whole is corrected, have
no existence ; if the correction is to be made, it should
be carried through.
Let it be understood that the 70 weeks did not run
PROPHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED. 27
out till the true A. D. 37, and that the whole period
will not run out till the true A. D. 1847 ; and let it he
further understood that the true A. D. 37 was A. D.
33, and the true A. D. 1847 is A D. 1843, and
it is as exactly 490 years from the 7th year of Ar-
taxerxes to the 37th year of the true age of Christ, as
from the same year to A. D. 33 ; and it is as exactly
1810 years from the 37th year of the true age of Christ
to the true A..D. 1847, as from A. D. 33 to A. D.
1843. As the " difference" has no connection with
the time of Christ's death, the difficulty it is supposed
to present in applying the prophetic period which
brings us to " the end," has no existence.*
THE END HID FROM US.
Again we have been told, that the time of this event
(the end of all things) " is not suitable to be revealed,"
" and it is wisely hid from us." If by the " time" here,
"the day and the hour" be meant, the objection can have
no fair application to Mr. Miller's calculations ; but if
it be meant that every thing "about the time" "is
wisely hid from us," and " is not suitable to be re-
vealed," the objection deserves a passing notice
;
though to point out its unscriptural character will ba
* We will illustrate by a simple diagram.
A.D. 33
A B. C. , I t A-D- B
457 C. X 1S43
The line A B represents the whole period of the vision, 2300 years,
beginning B. C. 457 and ending A. D. 1843. The line from A to X
represents the 70 weeks, or 490 years, which terminated at the death
of Christ. C represents the true dale of the birth of Christ, four years
before A. D. Now you may remove C, the birth of Christ, to any
punt between B. C. 457, and A. I) 33, and it cannot possibly affect the
70 weeks which terminated at his death ; it only makes Christ younger
or older as it is removed nearer to or farther from his death. You can
have no more nor less than 70 weeks, or 490 years, at A. D. 33.—or if
any alteration be made here, a corresponding alteration must be made
through the whole period : but it would not be very honorable, though
honesty and candor demand it. for men of the pretensions of our op-,
posers, to practise an exhibition of wisdom like that of a man who
should attempt to add to the dimensions of his house by taking out
the lower story and putting it upon the upper one. It is enough for
them to pull down the superstructure,
—
they are " under na particular
obligation" to put it up again.
28 OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE
sufficient. Has God commissioned his angels to our
earth, to tell the prophets, to whom it was revealed
that not unto themselves but unto us they did minister,
how long it was to these things, and that the wise
should understand—have the apostles directed us to
these same prophets, telling us that we do well to take
heed unto their word as unto a light that shineth in a
dark place—has God connected the setting up of his
kingdom, the judgment, and the comirrg of the Son of
man in the clouds of heaven, with the destruction
of all earthly kingdoms, telling us which of those
earthly kingdoms in the succession should exist at the
time—has Christ pointed us to the signs by which
we might know when his coming is near, even at the
door, and after all is it hid from us?
Has God seen it to be " suitable" to give notice of the
time of the flood which was to destroy the world,
even to a day, (Gen. vii. 4,) and of a famine which
should affect only a few nations at most—and of the
judgment of Egypt, a single nation, for oppressing his
people—and of the final dissolution of the ten tribes,
and of the captivity of Judah 70 years in Babylon, and
of the destruction of Jerusalem, and is it unsuitable for
God to make known to the world the time of its final
destruction ! And who shall dare to say what is suitable
for God to do in such a case ! Away with such af-
fected regard for the character of God, which, assuming
to guard the portals of the inner sanctuary, dares to
dictate to the Sovereign who sits upon its throne ; and
while it ignorantly claims to be the guardian of his
wisdom, impeaches every one of his perfections, as
manifested in the express design of his most wonder-
ful and important transactions.
How de ye doctors "make void the word of God
through your traditions !" Do ye know the scriptures,
or the power of God ?
We defy any man to find in Mr. Miller's works, or
even in what is ascribed to him by the ten thousand
falsehoods in circulation, any thing more strongly
PROPHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED. 29
characterized by ignorance, presumption and impiety
than this.
UNFAIR COMPARISONS.
It has been attempted more than once to add to the
unpopularity of Mr. Miller's theory, by invidiously
comparing him with the "religious theorists" who
have assumed to be " inspired to explain the prophe-
cies," or have read the world's destiny in the stars, or
have had the dreadful message communicated to them
in " dreams and revelations" of their own, or have ex-
plained the prophetic periods sometimes by solar years,
sometimes by lunar years, and sometimes by the time
taken for one of the distant planets to pass through its
orbit, and so on.
But Mr. Miller makes no " pretensions of this sort."
He claims the gift of inspiration only for the men who
wrote the Bible. He has nothing to do with the stars
or planets, but for the purposes for which God has ex-
pressly made them. He has but one kind of year for
chronology or history, and no other but the sanctioned
principles in interpreting the prophetic periods which
are not understood literally. He has nothing to do
with dreams or visions, except those of holy men of
old who wrote as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.
His views are based upon the word of God, and the
undeniable facts of history ; and however crudely they
may have been expressed to the classic ear, there is no
ambiguity about them.
If any mistake can be pointed out in the dates of these
events, or any impropriety in the application of the
prophecies to them, or if a more scriptural and fair ex-
planation can be given us, let it be done. The man
who does it shall have our hearty thanks for ourselves,
and our hearty cooperation to confer the benefit upon
others. God's word will be verified, and it is to be
understood by those for whom it is intended, before
the sublime reality shall come to pass. But while we
are fully aware that the belief of our views will not
hasten the end, we are also sensible that the disbelief
30 OBJECTIONS TO CALCULATING THE
of the word will not defer it. It will be as easy for
the world to be deceived now as it has ever been ; as
easy for sinners to sleep, and for professors to dream
under the lullaby of their slumbering watchmen, and
for all to be taken in the snare, as at any time ; but
ready or not ready—awake or asleep, what God hath
written he will surely perform.
CONCLUSION.
We have thus considered the principal objections
and difficulties which have been presented against cal-
culating the termination of the prophetic periods, espe-
cially that/view of them which supposes that they bring
us to the end in 1843.
There are other objections which were not deemed
worthy of a detailed examination here,—their fallacy
having been so often shown, or their weakness being
so very palpable, that nothing but the most obsequious
bigotry, or the most unpardonable ignorance, could
ever think of them. Of the former, " No man knoweth
the day or the hour," is a specimen,—of the latter,
" The doctrine is not according to the standard writers
of our church," and " Mr. Miller is not a learned man,"
are examples. We do not think the Saviour meant to
say, when he spoke of M the day and the hour," u that
we can know nothing about the time;" (Dimmick ;)
that would make him contradict himself, for he had just
told how we might know when his coming was near,
even at the door. (Matt. xxiv. 32, 33.) Nor is it
even probable that he meant to say that " man" should
never know the day or the hour of his coming in the
most literal sense, for that would suppose that he
himself could never know the day or the hour. The
text applies to "the Son" as well as to "man" and
" the angels of heaven." Mark xiii. 32.
The doctrine may not be according to the " standard
writers" of any sect, and yet it may be true. Mr.
Miller may not be a learned man, in the estimation of
men, and yet his calculations may be correct. These
objections cannot prove any doctrine true or false—no
PROPHETIC TIMES CONSIDERED. 31
man who is seeking for truth at the only source of
truth, the word of God, would allow them the weight
of a feather. If Mr. Miller's views are the truth, they
are worthy of the ablest advocacy of the most learned
and able Christian, and it is high time they were re-
ceived among the " standard writings" of the several
branches of the church ; if they are not true, no Chris-
tian is at liberty to treat them or their disciples in any
other than in a Christian manner.
Finally, there are several fundamental positions of
the doctrine which remain firm and immovable :
—
1. God meant what he said when he dictated the
prophecies.
2. Whatever the prophecies speak is " a sure
word."
3. According to the principles of this theory the
prophecies have been so far fulfilled.
4. If we are wrong, those who oppose our views are
also wrong. They cannot be right.
5. If this view of the prophecies does not bring us
to their grand development, we do not know what to
make of them.
6y We must therefore lay hold of it as the truth till
God shall settle the question, and trust in him for the
result.
Remark. To those who may receive this article on
the objections against calculating the prophetic times,
we would remark, that the particular illustration of,
and argument upon, those prophecies named in the
diagram of symbolic times, may be found in the other
articles of the series of which this is only one. They
may also be found in nearly all our more extended
second advent publications. The extract from Fergu-
son, referred to in the Chronology, may be found in
the "Bible Student's Manual," "Miller's Life and
Views," &c. &e.
Chronological Order of the Prophets,
From Home's Introduction, Vol IV.
" Much of the obscurity, which hangs over the prophetic
writings, may be removed by perusing them in the order of time
in which they were probably written ; and, though the precise
time, in which some of the prophets delivered their predic-
tions, cannot, perhaps, be traced in every instance, yet the
following arrangement of the prophets in their supposed order
of time, (according to the tables of Blair, Archbishop INew-
come, and other eminent critics, with a few variations,) will,
we think, be found sufficiently correct for the right under-
standing of their predictions.
According to this table, the times when the prophets flour-
ished may be referred to three periods, via. 1. Before the
Babylonian Captivity; —2. Near to and during that event ;
—
and, 3. After the return of the Jews from Babylon. And if,
in these three periods, we parallel the prophetical writings
with the historical books written during the same times, they
will materially illustrate each other.
Jonah, . . . between B. C . 850 and 784.
Amos, a a 810 n 785.
Hosea, .
a tt
810 a 725.
Isaiah, .
a a 810 a 698.
Joel, . .
a n 810 it
660, or later
MlCAH, ;
a a 758 a 699.
Nahum, a a 720 a 698.
Zephaniah, a a 640 a 609.
Jeremiah, .
a a 628 tt
586.
Habakkuk, a a 612 a 598.
Daniel, a u 606 a 534.
Obadiah, a a 588 a 583.
Ezekiel, .
if a 595 tt
536.
Haggai, .
a n 520 a 518.
Zechariah, a it
520 tt
518.
Malachi, .
a a 436 a 420.
"
-™ I Hfe '
—
Chronological Order of the Prophets,
From Home's Introduction, Vol IV.
*' Much of the obscurity, which hangs over the prophetic
writings, may be removed by perusing them in the order of time
in which they were probably written ; and, though the precise
time, in which some of the prophets delivered their predic-
tions, cannot, perhaps, be traced in every instance, yet the
following arrangement of the prophets in their supposed order
of time, (according to the tables of Blair, Archbishop New-
come, and other eminent critics, with a few variations,) will,
we think, be found sufficiently correct for the right under-
standing of their predictions.
According to this table, the times when the prophets flour-
ished may be referred to three periods, viz. 1. Before the
Babylonian Captivity; —2. Near to and during that event ;
—
and, 3. After the return of the Jews from Babylon. And if,
in these three periods, we parallel the prophetical writings
with the historical books written during the same times, they
will materially illustrate each other.
Jonah, . . . between B. C. 856 and 784.
Amos, . .
a ii
810 ii
785.
HOSEA, .
a a 810 a 725.
Isaiah, . .
a n 810 a 698.
Joel, . .
a n 810 a 660, or later
MlCAH, ; .
u n 758 a 699.
Nahum, a a 720 a 698.
Zephaniah, .
a n 640 a 609.
Jeremiah, .
ti a 628 a 586.
Habakkuk, .
ti a 612 a 598.
Daniel, .
a a 606 a 534.
Obadiah, a a 588 a 583.
Ezekiel, . .
ti a 595 it
536.
Haggai, . .
(i a 520 a 518.
Zechariah, II it
520 ti
518.
Malachi, .
II a 436 it
420.
"
DIAGRAM OF PROPHETIC TIMES, 1
ACCORDIM TO THE CHR0K010GY OF WJI. SllllKR.
Lm "" " nun.K < hilu>..i.».v in H,
A. D 1843
18 1
ill
»
.
if »
1
|i
Ii »
-::::
SjjjL
iLHlji
*
H-
: :: :
- . . j .
• .
. 1 .
S
9
. . . i •
K. »"-"»»">"»•«•• - « ft ic •-.«,«. _ *&£ —|e a is e AS S
.
Sri..'*? .'.'. <So! 1
1
IGSrSEES
"jsssiraTK
•fflSfiK
:•;':. ,'iuv
::
. . .
• • •
*.
....
«| A. D. 1843.
: : ::
. . It u
Ii:
! 1
;
ttlj
iT.*".sr.""
8
"" u
10 j
::
::
;:
1 fi
IS
i -
1 ::::
.
11
1
,::::":!::::: "...
.. .
: : r i; 12
.—ft. -.,.,»,. .-,.,., 1
1:::::
1
if .
14
:
:.;r::7:::;V./;r ':?::.
:i
/:::
r
'
: . . . .
;
i.::::
'.'
rfrSS
:::::
18
19 *
:::..:.«
,L
25
26
i:t:r.:::'i--i'
:
;r:;r::::";:;5 ."!!;*;.';!'
J
31 :::
1
:
m
A M US) .... 1 .
29
»,;ii"TSS
""""
30
31
32
.:::.: '
' ' '
1^
36
36
37
1 ;
5
-
;"
39
^r*""
1
,
s
... ^.. ., ' ...•.:.. - '«
— »™.™» __—-
!«IST A.M.JI
* - ••
..'
PROPHETIC PERIODS
THE SEVEN TIMES, OR 2520 YEARS.
The first of the prophetic periods, which are con-
sidered as main pillars in the calculations of Mr. Mil-
ler, is found in Leviticus xxvi. 18—28.
The objections urged against this are, 1. That it
should not be considered a prophetic period at all. 2.
If it be so considered,—as the seven times occur four
times in the text,—it should be understood as a period
of four times seven times. 3. Admitting it to express
only one period of seven times, which, understood pro-
phetically, would be 2520 years, why should the pe-
riod begin B. C. 677?
1. Why consider the seven times of Leviticus a
prophetic period ? Answer. That is the first mean-
ing we should think of attaching to the text. If the
word times did not occur in other parts of the word of
God, when chronological arrangements are spoken of,
there would be some show of propriety in demanding
the reasons for so understanding it in this case. But
when we read of the seven times in the history of
Nebuchadnezzar, Dan. iv., in which case only one
signification has ever been supposed ; and of the
time, times and half a time, repeatedly spoken of in
the prophecies of the Old and New Testaments ; and
of the times of the Gentiles, Luke xxi. 24 ; and of
the times of the restitution of all things, Acts iii. 21 ;
and of the dispensation of the fulness of times, Eph.
i. 10 ; and of the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
which in his times he shall show, 1 Tim. vi. 15, &c,
&c. ; the text in Lev. is at once recognised as one of
a most numerous and important class. The text is
a part of the last communication which "the Lord
spake unto Moses in Mount Sinia, (xxv. 1 ; xxvii. 34,)
and was specially designed for the warning of "the
34 THE SEVEN TIMES, OR 2520 YEARS.
children of Israel," when they should " come, into the
land which God gave them"—a portion of truth which
brought before them, in a most impressive manner,
conditionally, their future history as a nation.
And this, if any doubt might exist, would confirm
the idea that the text was intended to be understood
chronologically. " And if ye will not for all this
hearken unto me, then I will punish you seven
times more for your sins." " Then will I also walk
contrary unto you, and will punish you yet seven
times for your sins." " And if ye will not for all
this hearken unto me, but walk contrary unto me ;
then I will walk contrary unto you also in fury ; and
I, even I, will chastise you seven times for your sins."
Lev. xxvi. 18, 24, 27, 28.
" But does not the text mean to express that God
would punish them in measure according to perfect
justice?" That is a truth which it could" hardly be
necessary to assert. None could doubt that his ad-
ministration would be according to perfect justice ; and
to punish them seven times might be as perfectly just
as to punish them for any other period.
If any class of expositors should be called upon to
give special reasons, they should do it who under-
stand the text in any other sense than its obvious,
chronological sense. Besides Mr. Miller, Prof. Bush,
Rev. M. Duffield, and Mr. Campbell, and others in
our country, understand the text to contain a pro-
phetic period, which they all understand figuratively
to be 2520 years—as it must be understood in the na-
ture of the case. Among the European writers, Mr.
Philip (I think that is the name) understands and
applies the period exactly as Mr. Miller does. I re-
fer to him because he could have no knowledge of
Mr. M. (See " Morning Watch"—a rare w7
ork in
tins country.)
2. " If the seven times be understood as a prophetic
period, does not the text contain four of those pe-
riods?" I may be excused for inserting a quotation,
which shows at once the carelessness and '
' igno-
THE SEVEN TIMES, OR 2520 YEARS. 35
ranee" upon questions which every man may decide
who can read his Bible, which are so characteristic
of many who fill the most important stations in the
modern church. It is from the pen of the editor of
the Protestant Banner, published in Philadelphia—
a
most efficient antagonist of nominal popery. The
writer had made a display of his powers on that side
of the question of "Millerism" so honorable at the
present time, in which he had shown from " Mr. Mil-
ler's own terms," as he called them, that the seven
times could not run out till "A. I). 9403," and then
adds,
—
" It will be in vain for any advocates of Millerism
to evade this conclusion, from the premises which they
assume ; they dare not tell us that the seven times here
spoken of are merely a repetition of the same period,
because it is emphatically stated after each separate
enumeration of the different judgments,—which are
impending,—that they shall be punished seven times
more, if they do not hearken."
Such a Protestant would not, of course, claim that
kind of infallibility which might correct the written
word ; and if the reader will turn to the verses under
consideration, it will be seen the word "more" occurs
but twice at all ; only once when the seven times are
employed in stating their prospect of continued pun-
ishment, which is the first time the period is named,
(v. 18,) and once when the measure of their punishment
is compared with their sins—the only clear case of such
comparison, (v. 21,) the second time the seven times
are used. I am sorry that so many of our able oppo-
nents are willing thus to expose such an utter want of
every essential qualification for scriptural discussion,
as to take such a position, and then "dare the advo-
cates of Millerism" to take that view of a text which
every one, who is at all acquainted with the Bible,
must see at once is the most consistent and obviously
correct view of it,
—" that the seven times here spoken
of are merely a repetition of the same period," with
the exception, perhaps, of the second case referred to
36 THE SEVEN TIMES, OR 2520 YEARS.
above. I have yet to see " the advocate of Miller-
ism," who is so ignorant of his Bible and so regardless
of its contents, as to " dare" to make a statement like
the above by the Rev. Mr. B .
Surely, it can be no strange thing to suppose that
God may have made " a repetition of the same" thing
in the revelations he has given us of his designs and
will, especially when the matter is one of such mo-
ment to the recipients of the revelation. God saw fit
to make known to Pharaoh the seven years of famine
by " a repetition" of dreams, which Joseph dared to
tell the monarch were "one;" and, in explanation,
adds—'* And for that the dream was doubled unto Pha-
raoh twice, it is because the thing is established of God,
and God will shortly bring it to pass." Gen. xli. 32.
In the predicted subjection of the Jews and other na-
tions to the king of Babylon, we have " a repetition of
the same period" four or five times by different proph-
ets, (Isaiah xxiii. 15—17; Jer. xxv. 11, 12,) and I
do not know that it has ever been considered an evi-
dence of any particular form of courage to suppose
this " repetition" to speak of only one period of " sev-
enty years." So invincible were the prejudices of
Peter, and so important was it that he should under-
stand the truth in the case, that there was " a repeti-
tion of the same" thing, three times, Acts. x. 9—16.
John is remarkable for " a repetition of the same pe-
riod :"—the forty two months, or its equivalents, are
named fives times, Rev. xi. xii. xiii. ; and the one
thousand years are named six times certainly, chap.
xx. ; and yet I believe there are very few who suppose
that the repetition, in each case, refers to more than
one period.
The mystery of the seven times is, therefore, ex-
plained by the very natural and scriptural supposition
of " a repetition of the same period."
One important feature of this prophecy, however,
appears to have been overlooked. The language im-
plies, and the history of the Jews proves, that these
predictions of national judgments were conditional; not
THE SEVEN TIMES, OR 2520 YEARS. 37
merely in the sense that the conduct of the Jews would
determine whether they should begin or not,—that is
too plain to be mistaken, vs. 14—18 ; but after they
had been inflicted in part, and the different forms of
the threatened punishment had begun, the remainder
of it might have been suspended or remitted ; for after
the first threatening of the punishment, it says, vs. 23,
24, " And if ye will not be reformed by me by these
things, but will walk contrary unto me ; then will I
also walk contrary unto you, and will punish you
YET' seven times for your sins,"—implying that,
after the judgments had begun, if they would hearken
and do his commandments, he would not punish them
to the full ; but if not, then he would punish them yet
seven times,—the full punishment of the first threaten-
ing shall be poured out upon them. So the prophets
understood the subject, and in accordance with it they
addressed their countrymen, until they finally rebelled
by rejecting their Lord, and the wrath came upon
them to the uttermost. Jer. iii. 7—20 ; iv. 1, 2 ; vii.
5—7; xvii. 19—26; xxii. 1—4.
3. Why commence the seven times at the captivity of
Manasseh, B, C. 677?
1. The prediction itself points to that event. The
first form of their punishment stated in connection
with the first mention of the period is,
—" And I will
break the pride of your power." If their kingly form
of civil government is here referred to, it was never
" broken" until the captivity of Manasseh. Although
it was the case, after the division of the Hebrews into
the ten tribes and two tribes, that they were several
times made tributary to foreigners, still one division re-
mained independent while the other was subdued and
tributary until his captivity ; but at this period the ten
tribes had lost their king, (2 Kings xvii. 1 —18,) and as
soon as Manasseh, the king of the remaining division,
was carried into captivity, their " power," as an inde
pendent people, was gone. Manasseh was the pride
and the ruin of the Jews.
4
38 THE SEVEN TIMES, OR 2520 YEARS.
Again ; the prediction specifies the particular sins
on account of which this evil should befall them.
Some of these sins are as specifically charged upon
Manasseh and the Jews as the direct cause of their
calamity. Compare Lev. xxvi. 14, 18, 27, with 2
Kings xxi. 9—13 ; and Lev. xxvi. 1, 2, with 2 Kings
xxi. 2—8 ; 2 Chron. xxxiii. 2—11.
2. Those texts which speak of the instruments of
Providence in effecting this judgment, all point to his
captivity as the time for the commencement of. the pe-
riod. Compare Isaiah x. 5, 6, with 2 Kings xxi. 10
—
14. 2 Chron xxxiii. 10, 11. Neh. ix. 32.
3. The sacred historians refer to Manasseh's sins
as the cause of their captivity and sufferings long after
his captivity. 2 Kings xxiii. 26, 27 ; xxiv. 1 —4 ;
Jer. xv. 1—7.
4. Although Manasseh was restored to his throne,
and there were a few other kings of the Jewish nation
after him, they have never been an independent peo-
ple " from the day of the kings of Assyria unto this
day." Neh. ix. 32. Nebuchadnezzar brought the
kingdom, in its subjected form, to an end ; when Baby-
lon was conquered by Cyrus, the Jews passed under
the power of the Medes and Persians ; then under that
of the Greeks; in the division of Greece, they were
connected with Egypt ; as a part of Egypt, were con-
quered by Syria ; they prospered awhile under the
Maccabees, and the protection of the Romans, who
eventually " took away their place and nation.'
1 ''
Since
the destruction of their city, they have been " wan-
derers among the nations,"—a hissing and a by-word,
—pitying none, pitied by none.
5. The prophets, who lived long before the captivity
of Manasseh, point to that event as the time of the pass-
ing away of the Jewish independence, by connecting it
with other events. One of them gives the date. Ho-
sea, more than a hundred years before, had said,
—
" And the pride of Israel (the ten tribes) doth testify
to his face : therefore shall Israel and Ephraim (the
principal tribe of the ten) fall in their iniquity ; Judah
THE SEVEN TIMES, OR 2520 YEARS. 39
(the other division) shall also fall with them."
Hosea v. 5. Isaiah, in the year 742 B. C, according
to date in the margin, had said,
—
"And within three-
score and Jive years shall ephraim be broken that it
be not a people." vii. 8. From 742
deduct 65
leaves B. C. 677,—the only date
ever given, I believe, for the captivity of Manasseh.
For an explanation of the quotations from Hosea
and Isaiah, and for the most authentic history of the
period before us, we add the following
history.
Prideaux's Con., vol. i., pp. 149—151. " In the eleventh
year of Manasseh, B. C. 688, died Tirhakah,* king of Egypt,
after he had reigned there eighteen years, who was the last of
the Ethiopian kings that reigned in that country.
" The same year that this happened in Egypt, by the death
of Tirhakah, the like happened in Babylon, by the death of
Mesessimordacus. For, he leaving no son behind him to in-
herit the kingdom, an interregnum of anarchy and confusion
followed there for eight years together,! of which Esarhaddon,
king of Assyria, taking the advantage, seized Babylon, and,
adding it to his former empire, thenceforth reigned over both
for thirteen years \% he is, in the canon of Ptolemy, called As-
sar-Adinus. And in the scriptures he is spoken of as king of
Babylon and Assyria jointly together. §
In the 22d year of Manasseh, B. C. 677, Esarhad-
don, after he had now entered on the fourth year of
his reign in Babylon, and fully settled his authority
* Africans and Cyncellum, p. 74.
f Canon Ptolemaei.
X Canon Ptolemaei.
§ He is said, as king of Assyria, to have brought a colony
out of Babylon into Samaria, 2 Kings xvii. 24, Ezra iv. 9,
10, which he could not have done, if he had not been king of
Babylon, as well as of Assyria, at that time. And in 2 Chron.
xxxiii. 11, he is said, as king of Assyria, to have taken Ma-
nasseh prisoner, and to have carried him to Babylon, which
argues him, at that time, to have been king of Babylon also.
40 THE SEVEN TIMES, OR 2520 YEARS.
there, began to set his thoughts on the recovery of
what had been lost to the empire of the Assyrians in
Syria and Palestine, on the destruction of his father's
army in Judea, and on that doleful retreat which
thereon he was forced to make from thence ; and,
being encouraged to this undertaking by the great
augmentation of strength which he had acquired by
adding Babylon and Chaldea to his former kingdom of
Assyria, he prepared a great army, and marched into
those parts, and again added them to the Assyrian
empire. And then was accomplished the prophecy
which was spoken by Isaiah, in the first year of Ahaz,
against Samaria,* that, within threescore and five
years, Ephraim should be absolutely broken, so as to
be from thenceforth no more a people. For this year,
being exactly sixty-five years from the first of Ahaz,
Esarhaddon, after he had settled all affairs in Syria,
marched into the land of Israel, and there taking cap-
tive all those who were the remains of the former cap-
tivity, (excepting only some few, who escaped his
hands and continued still in the land,) carried them
away into Babylon and Assyria ; and, to prevent the
land from becoming desolate, he brought others fromf
Babylon, and Cutha, and from Avah, and Hamath,
and Sepharvaim, to dwell in the cities of Samaria in
their stead. And the ten tribes of Israel, which had
separated from the house of David, were brought to a
full and utter destruction, and never after recovered
themselves again.
Esarhaddon, after he had thus possessed himself of
the land of Israel, sent some of his princes, with parts
of his army, into Judea, to reduce that country also
under his subjection ; who, having vanquished Manas-
seh in battle,J and taking him, hid in a thicket of
thorns, brought him prisoner to Esarhaddon, who
bound him in fetters and carried him to Babylon.
*Isa. vii. 8.
t2 Kings, xvii. 24. Ezra iv. 2, 10.
$ 2 Chron. xxxiii. 2* Joseph. Antiq. lib. 10, 4.
THE SEVEN TIMES, OR 2520 YEARS. 41
Archbishop Usher, after referring to the above facts
in the history of Egypt and Babylon, stated by Pri-
deaux, in reference to the points in question, says :
—
"Year of the world 3327. Julian period 4037. Before
Christ 677. This year also was fulfilled the prophecy of the
prophet Isaiah, (chap. vii. 8,) in the beginning of the reign of
Ahaz, " Within sixty and five years, Ephraim shall be broken
in pieces so that it shall be no more a people." For although
the greatest part of them were carried away by Salmaneser
44 years before, and the kingdom utterly abolished, yet among
them which were left there was some show of government.
But now they left off to be any more a people by reason of the
great multitude of foreigners which came to dwell there. New
colonies or companies were sent out of Babel, Cuth, Hava,
and Sepharvaim; and this was done by Esarhaddon, king of
Assyria, as is easy to be understood, by the confession of the
Cuthites, mentioned Ezra iv. 2, 10.
"At which time, also, as it should seem, and in the same ex-
pedition, whereby these things were done in the land of Israel,
some of the chief commanders of the Assyrian army made an
inroad into Judea, and then took Manasseh the king, as he lay
hid in a thicket; after binding him with chains of brass, car-
ried him away to Babylon. Jacobus Capellus hath noted in his
Chron. that the Jews in Sedar Olam Rabba, and the Tal-
mudists, cited by Rabbi Kimchi upon Ezra, chap, iv., do de-
liver, that Manasseh, 22 of his reign, was carried away captive
into Babylon, and that he repented him of his sin thirty-three
years before his death."—[Usher's Annals of the World, p.
75. Lond., 1658. See also Newton on Prophecy, pp. 98, 99.
Rollin, B. iii., chap. 2.]
From all the light we have upon the event to which
this prophecy refers, and from which the seven times
should commence, no other date could be named for
the event—no other point for the starting-point, any
more than we could fix upon any other date than 1776
for the date of American Independence.
Having thus disposed of the difficulties connected
with this first and most important detailed prediction
of the history of the Jews, so far as it relates to the
prophetic period it contains, we will close our remarks
by showing that it must terminate in 1843 ; and by
referring to those texts which assure us that the com-
ing of Christ, and the end of all things, in their pres-
4#
43 TWO THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED DAYS.
ent state, also come at its termination. God has ex-
plained a "time" to be a period of 360 days, (Rev.
xii. 6, 14.) In seven of those periods there are 2520
days, which, understood as years,—for they cannot be
understood literally,—and commencing B. C. 677, end
A. D. 1843.
360
7
2520
677
1843
The proofs that the end will come at the end of this
period are found Dan. xii. 1 —7. Luke xxi. 24—27.
See also remarks on the cleansing the sanctuary and
last end of the indignation. Dan. viii.
TWO THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED DAYS.
The second of the prophetic periods, which are con-
sidered main pillars in Mr. M's calculations, is found
Dan. viii. 14.
The objections on this period are, 1. " It is not to be
understood as years. 2. And if it be so understood, the
cleansing of the sanctuary is not the end of the world.
3. There is no evidence that it begins with the seventy
weeks. 4. If it does begin with the seventy weeks,
we do not know with which of the several decrees it be-
gins."
1. Should the 2300 days of Dan. viii. 14, be under-
stood as years 1
The difference of opinion which exists upon this
question appears to arise from the use of the words
" evening-morning," which specify the portions of
time enumerated, and which are translated days in the
TWO THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED DAYS. 43
text, (2300 evenings and mornings, it is contended,
make only half that number of whole days;) and, from
the supposition that the question, in answer to which
they are given, refers only to some particular pollution
of the sanctuary which might occupy but a small por-
tion of the time comprehended in the whole vision.
That the marginal and original reading, evening-morn-
ing, is the Hebrew expression of the natural day, is
admitted by the most respectable Hebrew scholars.
Professor Stuart, as a witness, will not be suspected.
" On the whole, then, we must consider these 2300
evening-mornings as an expression of simple time,
i. e., of so many days, reckoned in the Hebrew man-
ner. So Gesenius, Rosenmueller, Havernick, and
others."
—
Hints, p. 100.
On the other point, whether the question and an-
swer refer to a part of the vision or the whole of it,
there seems to be less room for dispute.
In determining the true application of any partic-
ular portion of prophecy, we should refer, 1st, To the
views of standard writers on the prophecies ; and, 2d,
In a difficult case, we should make use of the following
rule. It is quoted from Macknight, and maybe found
in Dr. Clarke's notes on 2 Thess. ii. We regard it as
a complete " counterfeit detector," and have no doubt
its value will be appreciated at the present time.
Rule.—" In every case where different interpretations of a
prophecy have been given, the proper method of ascertaining its
meaning is, to compare the various events to which it is thought
to relate, with the words of the prophecy; and to adopt that as
the event intended which most exactly agrees, in all its parts,
with the prophetic description."
These criteria will commend themselves to every
enlightened and candid mind.
The Jewish writers appear generally to have under-
stood this and the other periods of Daniel as years.
" Rabbi Isaac Abarbanel proves that the days are to
be interpreted as years, when shall be the days of our
redemption, and so have explained them all our other
interpreters."—Political destiny of the earth,—Preface,
44 TWO THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED DAYS.
Bishop Newton, who may be considered a host of
himself, and whose works on the prophecies have
been considered equal to any other for nearly a hun-
dred years, expresses himself on the point before us
as follows :
—" The days, without doubt, are to be taken,
agreeably to the style of Daniel in other places, not
for natural, butfor prophetic days or years; and as
the question was asked not only how long the daily
sacrifice shall be taken away, and the transgression
of desolation continue, but also how long the vision
shall last, so the answer is to be understood, and these
two thousand and three hundred days denote the whole
time from the beginning of the vision to the cleansing
of the sanctuary.—Newton on Proph., p. 259.
Fletcher, the devout and eloquent vicar of Made-
ley, in a letter on the prophecies, dated 1775, says,
" Chronologists may mistake a few years, but cannot
err upon the whole, and as God is true and faithful,
so it is manifest that the prophecy of 2300 years must
be fully accomplished in our days, or those of the next
generation." See also Dr. Clarke's notes on Dan.
viii. 26.
We might fill a volume of similar quotations from
the best and most able men who have ever lived ; but
we pass to " the words of the prophecy."
The first thing attempted in the interpretation of
this vision, is to show that it extends to "the end,"
(v. 17,) the exact meaning of which is explained to
be " THE LAST END. OF THE INDIGNATION," (v. 19,)
and, that " the vision," and the time given in it, ter-
minate together,—" at the time appointed the
end shall be." (v. 19.) All this was said by Gabriel
before a word was said about the historical emblems
of the vision—the ram, goat, &c,—evidently imply-
ing that these points were the most important to be
understood.
What, then, is "the time appointed?" It must be
the time mentioned in " the vision ;" for it was " the
meaning" of" the vision" Daniel sought, (v. 15,) —it
was the vision Gabriel was sent to " make" him " un-
derstand," (v. 16,) and it was the vision Gabriel
CLEANSING THE SANCTUARY. 45
" came" to explain to him, (v. 17 ;) the time appoint-
ed, therefore, must be the time given in " the vision,"
or Daniel's prayer was answered with mocking, Ga-
briel forgot his commission, and directed his attention
to something foreign from the matter to be attended to.
No other time is given in the vision but the "2300
days," (v. 14,) and that this was specially designed to
be communicated to Daniel is evident from this fact
:
when the question wr
as asked, " How long the vision 1
"
though it does not appear to have been proposed by
Daniel, the answer is addressed to him,—" And he
said unto me," &c.
This, then, is " the time appointed," at the end of
which " the vision" is to end,—" then shall the sanc-
tuary be cleansed," " the last end of the indignation"
come, and the power represented by the " little horn"
" shall be broken without hand."
It is sufficient to settle the question whether this
period is to be understood literally or not, to know
that 2300 days, literally, will not cover the history
of the power which continued for the shortest time
of any one in the vision—the " king" represented by
" the great horn" of " the goat"—Alexander.
If anything more were needed, the fact that all
who have attempted to apply it literally, have failed
to do so, many of them confessing it unequivocally,
puts it forever to rest. It must, therefore, be under-
stood symbolically, as equal to 2300 years.
2. If the period is understood to be years, does the
cleansing of the sanctuary bring us to the end of the
world J
What are we to understand by the '
' cleansing the
sanctuary?" To "understand" this correctly we
must ascertain what is meant by "the sanctuary."
The word sanctuary is used by the inspired writers in
the following significations. 1. It is the name of a
particular part of the temple. Heb. ix. 2. 2. The
different apartments of the temple. Jer* li. 51 « 3,
46 CLEANSING THE SANCTUARY.
The temple itself. 1 Chron. xxii. 19 ; xxviii. 10.
4. Places of worship generally, true or false. Amos
vii. 9 ; Ezek. xxviii. 18; Dan. viii. 11. 5. Heaven
is called the sanctuary. Ps. cii. 19. 6. The prom-
ised land. Ex. xv. 17 ; Ps. lxxviii. 54 ; Isa. lxiii. 18.
7. The tabernacle of God in the heavenly state. Ezek.
xxxvii. 26, 28. These are the principal significations
of the word sanctuary, in the word bf God. Accord-
ing to which of these significations is the word to be
understood in the text before us? I think the most ob-
vious sense is that which points out the promised land
;
for it must be evident to every one that the sanctuary
here spoken of must be capable of being "trodden
underfoot ," and of being " cleansed," and, as I think
we shall see, of being cleansed at the coming of Christ
and the resurrection of the righteous dead. The text
should also be understood in a sense that will har-
monize with other cases in which the word is used by
Daniel in particular, with the views of the other
prophets, and the word of God generally.
The promised land, of which old Jerusalem was the
metropolis, was given to Abraham, (Gen. xvii. 4—9,)
and to his seed after him, for an everlasting pos-
session, in a covenant established with Abraham, and
to be established with his seed after him in their genera-
tions. And this seed are thus to possess it as a pecu-
liar inheritance when the promise to Abraham that he
should be the heir of the habitable earth (kosmou) shall
be realized. There will be the " city which hath foun-
dations, whose builder and maker is God, 11
to which they
have " looked
11
while " strangers and pilgrims on the
earth.
11
There " the king shall be seen in his beauty,
11
—" upon the throne of David, to order and to establish
it with judgment and with justice ,
from henceforth even
forever.
11 *"
" For the Lord hath chosen Zion : he
hath desired it for his habitation." " This is my
rest forever : here will I dwell ; for I have de-
sired it.
11
Ps. cxxxii. 13, 14. " This is the hill which
God desireth to dwell in; yea, the Lord will dwell
in it forever;' '
Ps. lxviii. 16. See also Ex. xv.
CLEANSING THE SANCTUARY. 47
17, 18 ; Isa. Ix. 13 ; Ezek. xxxvii. 24—28 ; Rev.
xxii. 3.
On this territory the great battle is to be fought, which
will make an end at once of the desolator and the des-
olations. " The Lord of hosts hath sworn, saying,
Surely as I have thought, so shall it come to pass ; and
as I have purposed, so shall it stand ; that I will break
the Assyrian in my land, and upon my mountains
tread him under foot : then shall his yoke depart from
off them, and his burden depart from off their shoulders.
This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole
earth ; and this is the hand that is stretched out upon
all the nations. For the Lord of hosts hath purposed,
and who shall disannul it ] and his hand is stretched
out, and who shall turn it back ?' Isa. xiv. 24—27.
See also xxix. 5—8 ; xxxi. 4, 5 : xxxiv. 1 —8 ; lxiii.
1—4 ; Joel iii. 9—16 ; Zech. xiv. 3 ; Rev. xvi. 13—16 ;
xix. 11—21.
" Then shall the sanctuary be cleansed,
11
"and the
host " of "the ransomed of the Lord" delivered from
the power of death and the grave, and their oppres-
sor? on earth, " shall return and come with singing
unto Zion ; and everlasting joy shall be upon their
head."
This cleansing is to take place at the last end of the
indignation. A remark or two will show that this is
to come at the time of Christ's coming to judge the
world, to raise the righteous dead, and to enter upon
his glorious and everlasting reign. If there were any
doubt whether this indignation were God's general in-
dignation against a guilty world, or against the wick-
ed and unworthy occupants of His " heritage"—the
promised land,—it would make no difference as to the
events which are to take place at the last end, or ter-
mination of it. In the most general sense it must
bring the last manifestation of God's wrath against
sinners, and that we know will not be till " the day of
judgment and perdition of ungodly men."
But the indignation is evidently that which, is so
often spoken of by the prophets, which was poured
48 CLEANSING THE SANCTUARY.
out upon the covenant people of God on account of
their sins ; which first subjected them to the dominion
of foreign masters, and afterwards removed them from
the land of their fathers, to be fugitives among all na-
tions. See Isa. v. 5—7, 13 ; x. 5, 6 ; xlii. 24, 25 ;
Jer. vii. 17—34 ; ix. 13—16 ; xliv. 2—6 ; Ezek. xxxvi.
17—19; Dan. ix. 7—12, 16.
Now we have the clearest proof that this condition
of " the sanctuary"—"the holy mountain," which
" the Lord hath chosen for his habitation, to dwell
in it forever ;" and which without doubt is to be the
location of u the city of the great King," " when
the Lord of hosts shall reign in Mount Zion, and
in Jerusalem, and before his ancients gloriously,"
"King over all the earth;" and which "the
heirs" are " to possess as an everlasting inheritance,"
together with "the kingdom and dominion under the
whole heaven ,"—we have the clearest proof, I repeat,
that this condition of the sanctuary is to terminate at
the coming of Christ, and not till then. Daniel, in
the 9th chapter, the appendix to the 8th, where he
gives us the fate of " the city and sanctuary," says
" for the overspreading of abominations he shall make
it desolate, even until the consummation." And
also xii. 1 —7, the accomplishment of the predicted
" scattering of the power of the holy people"—in other
words, the desolation, or " treading under foot," of
the inheritance—is the point at which the " wonders"
stated in the preceding verses, are to " be finished."
What are " these wonders?"
1. " At that time shall Michael stand up, the great
Prince which standeth for the children of thy people."
Michael is one of the names which is applied to Jesus
Christ. It means, " Who is like God?" To "stand
up," means, in this prophecy, to reign, xi. 2—4.
The first of these ivonders, then, is the reign of Jesus
Christ ; which is always stated to commence with the
destruction of all earthly kingdoms. See Dan. vii.
9—14; Rev. xi. 15—18. When "He whose right
it is" to reign takes the throne, his kingdom will be
CLEANSING THE SANCTUARY. 49
C{
all the earth;" and " the throne" of every usurper
shall be " cast down." Psalm ii. ; Zeph. iii. 8—18 ;
Luke xix. 11 —27.
2. " And at that time thy people shall be delivered,
every one that shall befound written in the book."
There is no other " time" in which the " deliverance"
of ,(
people" is to be determined by referring to " the
book," but in the judgment scene. Dan. vii. 10 ; Rev.
xx. 12, 15 ; xxi. 27. The second of these wonders is,
therefore, the judgment scene, which brings " trouble"
to the wicked and deliverance to the righteous.
3. " And many of them that sleep in the dust of the
earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to
shame and everlasting contempt.
'
' This is a clear state-
ment that the resurrection, particularly of the righteous,
wr
ill take place when the predicted scattering of the holy
people is " accomplished." It takes place " at his
(Christ's) coming." 1 Cor. xv. 23 ; 1 Thes. iv. 14—17*
We would remark upon this text, which has been sup-
posed to be difficult to reconcile with the theory of two
resurrections, a thousand years apart, that it certainly
supposes an arrangement of the process which gives it
a double character. And if the angel intended to have
said that all would come forth at once, he could hardly
have spoken as he has—" many of them," &c. ; but,
them that sleep, or, all that sleep. The intention, evi-
dently, is not to go into the details of the resurrection,
as John has done, (Rev. xx.,) but to state the fact so
as to place the righteous dead " who are written in
the book," among them who are " delivered" at the
time referred to, and yet so as not to clash with what
was to be more fully communicated as to the order of
the resurrection at a subsequent period. "Many of
them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake"
—
and then, lest the "many" should be understood, as
in some other cases, to include the whole, he imme-
diately adds—" some" of them that sleep in the dust
of the earth shall awake "to everlasting life, and
some" of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall
awake " to shame and everlasting contempt." The
5
50 CLEANSING THE SANCTUARY.
order is implied here. John tells how long a lime shall
intervene between the resurrection of the two classes.
But if all were to rise at once, it must take place " at
the time" here referred to. The third of " these
wonders," therefore, is the resurrection.
4. " And they that be ivise shall shine as the bright-
ness of the firmament; and they that turn many to
righteousness as the stars forever and ever.'''' This
can mean nothing less than the glorification of the
righteous. Paul uses similar language in speaking
on the same point. 1 Cor. xv. 41, 42. The Saviour
uses very similar language in his parable of the tares
and wheat. Matt. xiii. 37—43. And he assures us
that " at the end of this world" the righteous " shall
shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father."
Now "all these wonders'''' are -to "be finished"
" when he shall have accomplished to scatter the pow-
er of the holy people." The testimony of Christ,
(Luke xxi. 24—27,) is equally clear, that the desola-
tion of " the sanctuary, the holy mountain," is to end
at his coming to judge the world, and to reign forever.
" And Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles,
UNTIL THE TIMES OF THE GENTILES BE FULFILLED.
And there shall be signs in the sun< &c. And then
SHALL THEY SEE THE SoN OF MAN COMING IN A CLOUD
with power and great glory." Here the coming of
Christ is intimately connected with the fulfilment of
the times of the Gentiles, the period during which
Jerusalem shall be trodden under foot. Of course the
whole country follows the condition of its capital. It
must continue in this condition till Christ comes.
" And in that day thou shall say, O Lord, I will praise
thee : though thou wast angry with me, thine anger is
turned away, and thou comfortest me." Isa. xii. 1.
" Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God.
Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, that her warfare,
(appointed time, margin,) is accomplished, that her
iniquity is pardoned : for she hath received at the Lord's
hand double for all her sins." Isa. xl. 1. "For
your shame you shall have double, and for confusion
CLEANSING THE SANCTUARY. 51
they shall rejoice in their portion : therefore in their
LAND THEY SHALL POSSESS THE DOUBLE ; everlasting
joy shall be unto them.''
1
Isa. Ixi. 7. See also Isa.
lxvi. 13-—16.
By " the sanctuary, " then, I understand to be
meant, " the place which the Lord made for himself
to dwell in, the mountain of his inheritance,"—the land
given to Abraham, " the land wherein he was a stran-
ger, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting posses-
sion;" of which he received, during his life, according
to the apostle, (Acts vii. 5,) " none inheritance in it, no,
not so much as to set his foot on;" for it was the
" place which he should after receive for an inheri-
tance." Heb. xi. 8.
In this sense Daniel seems to have used the word
in the 9th chap, verse 17. He had just prayed, " O
Lord, I beseech thee, let thine anger and thy fury be
turned away from thy city Jerusalem, thy holy moun-
tain," &c, and continues in this verse, " Now, there-
fore, O our God, hear the prayer of thy servant, and
his supplication, and cause thy face to shine upon thy
sanctuary that is desolate." Can " Thy (God's) sanc-
tuary" mean anything else here but " Jerusalem, thy
holy mountain," including the territory to which
Moses applies the word the first time it occurs in the
Bible? Ex. xv. 17.
By the cleansing the sanctuary I understand to be
meant, 1. Its purification from the wicked agents of
its desolation, and, 2. The removal of the curse which
is upon it, at the termination of its predicted desola-
tion. Isa. i. 27, 28 ; xlix. 13—17, 19.
It may be asked, perhaps, how can this particular
land be possessed in the eternal state } Will it survive
the conflagration 1 To what extent the geological and
geographical features of the earth will be affected,
when " changed," or " melted" by the fire unto which
it is reserved, we do not pretend to say. That it will
exist in the same form m which it now exists, a globe,
is evident from the fact that there is to be day and
night, though " the city hath no need of the sun, neither
52 THE 2300 DAYS BEGIN WITH THE 70 WEEKS.
of the moon, to shine in it ;" (Rev. vii. 15 ; xx. 10 ;)
and if it exist in its present form there must be the
same diversities of latitude and longitude ; and a por-
tion of the new earth which corresponds with the lati-
tude and longitude of the promised land in this old
earth, may be selected for the location of the heavenly-
Jerusalem, " the city of the great King."
But from the repeated assurances that " the land
promised to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob," " the moun-
tains of Israel," " the holy mountain," " Mount Zion,"
&c. &c, are to be " possessed forever," " stand for-
ever," " never to be removed," &c, we may suppose
that some of the present features of the earth will
survive the conflagration.
It may be asked again, Will not the process of
cleansing—" the great battle," and "the burning
flame ,
" &c.
, require a long time for its accomplishmen t ?
We cannot tell how long a time it will require to com-
plete the work ; it may be but a few days, it may be as
many years as the Israelites were in conquering the
Canaanites, after they entered the land—seven years ;
it may be more or less ; but that it will be commenced
suddenly, and by the personal interposition of the
" King of kings and Lord of lords," and that its com-
mencement will be decisive upon the hopes of man-
kind, is clearly stated in the word of God. See Zeph.
i. 18 ; Isa. lx. 22 ; Luke xxi. 35 ; 1 Thess. v. 2, 3 ;
2 Thess. i. 7—10 ; Jude 14, 15.
The vision ends when the sanctuary is cleansed, (or
justified, as the margin reads,) and the last end of the
indignation comes, at the time appointed—the end
OF THE 2300 DAYS.
3. What reasons are there for supposing that the 2300
days, or years, of the Sth of Daniel, begin with the
70 weeks of the 9th 1
1. It must be, in the nature of the case, that the
matters contemplated in the 9th chapter are included
in the 8th, just as a part of a thing must be included
in the whole. The vision of the 8th surveys the whole
THE 2300 DAYS BEGIN WITH THE 70 WEEKS. 53
field from Persia to the end ; 1he 9th, though its
special burden is the 70 weeks, also reaches " even to
the consummation."
'2. But the nature of the view taken in both cases
points out the special bearing of one upon the other.
The vision of the 8th shows the particular relation of
the kingdoms of this world to the church—" the host,"
and her inheritance—"the sanctuary." This, with
what is said of the time, character and results of the
mission and death of Messiah, is also the whole bur-
den of the 9th.
3. The great question of interest to Daniel in the
vision of the 8th, was, as we have seen, " How long
the treading under foot of the sanctuary and the host"
was to continue 1 It was this also which led him to
the acts—" to seek by prayer and supplications, with
fasting, and sackcloth, and ashes' '
—which introduce
the 9th, and which called forth the communications
contained in it. Read chap. 9th, verse 3d to the end.
4. From all the circumstances of the mission of
Gabriel, as recorded in the 9th chapter, it is plain that
Daniel labored under some mistake in the case.
" While he was speaking in prayer, Gabriel, being
caused to fly swiftly, touched him and talked with
him, and said unto him, Daniel, I am now comeforth
to give thee skill and understanding." And again,
"lam come to show thee." There must have been
something that was not understood by Daniel, or Ga-
briel would not have been sent thus, on express, as it
were, " to show" him about it. But what could have
been Daniel's mistake? It was not in supposing that
the " 70 years" predicted by " Jeremiah the prophet"
had come nearly or quite to an end ; no, that was un-
derstood. " J, Daniel, understood by books the number
of the years." v. 2. From Daniel's prayer, and the
course taken by Gabriel, the mistake seems to have
been this : Daniel supposed that " to accomplish 70 years
in the desolations of Jerusalem" would make an end
of her desolations. Mark the words as they fell from
his lips in prayer. After confessing the sins of the
54 THE 2300 DAYS BEGIN WITH THE 70 WEEKS.
" kings, princes, fathers and all the people of the land,"
and that " the curse poured upon them" by " the Lord
their God," wasJ
1
righteous"—being also a fulfilment
of " his words," he proceeds—" 1 beseech thee, 1. Let
thine anger and thy fury be turned away from thy city
Jerusalem, thy holy mountain.'''' 2. " Open thine eyes,
and behold our desolations, and the city ivhich is called
by thy name." 3. " And cause thy face to shine upon
thy sanctuary that is desolate, for the Lord's sake."
4. "O Lord, hear, Lord, forgive; O Lord, hearken
and do ; defer not, for thine own sake, O my God."
Such importunity brought Gabriel from heaven,—not
to tell him his prayer should be answered, but to show
him that " the city and sanctuary" should be " destroy-
ed," and continue " desolate even until the consumma-
tion," But why should Daniel make such a mistake?
There does not appear to be anything in " the books"
of Jeremiah, to which he refers, to warrant such an ex-
pectation. The most obvious reason which can be
assigned is, that Daniel supposed that the vision of the
8th chapter, which brought to view the time when
" the sanctuary should be cleansed, or justified," run
out at the same time with the 70 years of Jeremiah.
This appears still further evident from the first attempt
of Gabriel " to show" Daniel. " I am come forth to
show thee ; therefore understand the matter, and con-
sider the vision." How could he " give" him " skill
and understanding," and " show" him, by telling him
to "consider the vision?" Daniel could not but see
that the vision had not run out with the 70 years, and
of course there was no reason to expect the sanctuary
to be cleansed, for it was to be " trodden under foot"
until the vision should end. "Consider the vision
!"
Daniel. Has the ram—the kings of Media and Persia,
been conquered by the rough goat—the king of Grecia?
Has Greece, after being a unit, been divided into " four
kingdoms?" And have these been followed by a
"king of fierce countenance," who was to arise "in
the latter time of their kingdom—and who should
" destroy wonderfully, and destroy the mighty and the
THE 2300 DAYS BEGIN WITH THE 70 WEEKS. 55
holy people—stand up against the Prince of princes?"
&c. Consider the vision ! So far is it from having
run out, that " 70 weeks (sevens) of the vision are de-
termined, or cut off,* upon thy people, and thy holy
*A Hebrew scholar, of high reputation, makes the following
remarks upon the word which is translated " determined," in
our version.—" The verb chathak (in the Niphal form, passive,
nechtak,) is found only in Daniel ix. 24. Not another in-
stance of its use can be traced in the entire Hebrew Testament.
As Chaldaic and Rabbinical usage must give us the true
sense of the word; if we are guided by these, it has the single
signification of cutting, or cutting off. In the Chal-
deo-Rabbinic Dictionary of Stockius, the word " chathak" is
thus defined:
*' Scidit, abscidit, conscidit, inscidit, excidit"
—
To cut, to
cut away, to cut in pieces, to cut or engrave, to cut ojj\
Mercerus, in his • Thesaurus," furnishes a specimen of
Rabbinical usage in the phrase chalhikah shelbasar
—
M a
piece of flesh," or " a cut of flesh." He translates the word
as it occurs in Dan. ix. 24, by " praecisa est"—WAS (Jut off,
In the literal version of Arias Montanus, it is translated
" decisa est,"
—
was cut off; in the marginal reading,
which is grammatically correct, it is rendered by the plural,
" decisae sunt"
—
were cut off.
In the Latin version of Junius and Treinellius, nechtak is
rendered " decisae sunt"
—
were cut off.
Again, in Theodotion's Greek version of Daniel, (which is
the version used in the Vatican copy of the Septuagint as be-
ing the most faithful,) it is rendered by ftyvgT^i-^c^Vj " were cut
off," and in the Venetian copy by ts t/uy,\ ta
i
,
" have been cut."
The idea of cutting off is pursued in the Vulgate ; where the
phrase is *' abbreviatae sunt," have been shortened.
Thus Chaldaic and Rabbinical authority, and that of the earli-
est versions, the Septuagint and Vulgate, give the SINGLE SIG-
NIFICATION OF cutting off to this verb."
Hengstenburg, who enters into a critical examination of the
original text, says,—" But the very use of the word, which
does not elsewhere occur, while others, much more frequently
used, were at hand, if Daniel had wished to express the idea
of determination, and of which he has elsewhere, and even in
this portion, availed himself ; seems to argue, that the word
stands from regard to its original meaning, and represents the
seventy weeks in contrast with a determination of time (en
platei) as a period cut oft" from subsequent (Juration, and accu-
ratelv limited." Christology of the Old Test. vol. 2, p. 301.
Washington, 1839.
56 THE 2300 DAYS BEGIN WITH THE 70 WEEKS.
city, to finish the transgression, and to make an end of sins,
[fill up their iniquity by putting to death their Messiah, the
event which shall] make reconciliation for iniquity, and bring
in everlasting righteousness, [and by this also] to seal up the
vision and prophecy, and to anoint the Most Holy.''
Now the point to be settled is, what " vision" did Gabriel
refer to! It must be evident to all that he refers to what is
stated in the 9th chapter, or to some previous vision. This
must be admitted, or Gabriel spoke nonsense. If what is said
in connection with the 70 weeks may, with any propriety, be
considered a vision, it is, to say the least of it, quite singular
that Gabriel should call Daniel to " consider and understand"
a vision before it had been given. In all other cases the vision
is first unfolded, and then, after special prayer for its meaning,
in most cases, the interpretation is given; but in this case, that
uniform and natural order is departed from, unless some other
vision besides that in the 9th chapter, (supposing it to be a
vision,) is the one intended by Gabriel. Well, what other
vision could it hel Why, the one speaking to Daniel in the
9th chapter is " the man Gabriel, whom he had seen in the
vision at the beginning," but we have no account of his being
seen in any other vision than that of the 8th chapter, verse 16;
and there he is commanded to make Daniel understand the
vision.
Here, then, is the same messenger, Gabriel, seen in the pre-
vious vision. His work is the same—to make Daniel " under-
stand." The manner of his address implies that he had come
to finish up the work assigned him in that vision—" to show"
Daniel its commencement, the only point before omitted. The
vnrds declare it. " Consider the vision," Daniel, toj^' understand
the matter."
And, to put the last query in the case to rest, he adds,
—
"Know, therefore, and understand, that from the
going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusa-
lem, unto the Messiah the Prince, shall be seven weeks, and three-
score and two weeks" — 69 weeks, " and he shall confirm the
covenant with many for one week," which added to the 69
make out the 70. This makes " the matter" plain. The 70
weeks are made a part of the 2300 days, or years, by telling
us they are to be " cut off" from the vision referred to; and
being a part of that period, they fix its commencement. For
the 70 weeks cannot be cut off from the 2300 days, unless
they were included in that period ; and if cut off, they must be
cut off so many weeks from the beginning of the period ; and if
cut off from the beginning, they must commence together. And
from what we are told was to be done in the 70 'weeks, they
must have terminated at the death of Christ; and this settles
THE 2300 DAYS BEGIN WITH THE 70 WEEKS. 57
the question that they are to be understood to express in days
the number of years intended. There being 490 days in 70
weeks, we have only to go back that number of years from the
death of Christ and we are brought necessarily to the year 457
B. C* That year is the remarkable seventh year of Artaxerxes,
when the ram did according to his will. That is the year in
which the decree of Ezra vii. was issued; and when, accord-
ing to the plain declaration of the vision,—the undoubted tes-
timony of history,—and the evident connection of the 8th and
9th chapters of Daniel, the 2300 years commenced, and of
course they terminate in 1843.
f
They make sure, " seal up," the vision; and they demon-
strate " the manner " in which the whole period is to be
reckoned. If the weeks are weeks, or sevens, of years, the
days are of course to be understood in a corresponding man-
ner. And you can no more cut 70 weeks of years from 2300
days literally, than you can cut 7 times 70 yards of broadcloth
from 2300 inches of broadcloth.
5. From all these reasons, drawn from the most general
character of the prophecy to the most minute particulars of
the subject of the two chapters, we are assured of such a
connection as we have supposed between them.
Again; without such a connection, one of the portions of
the prophecy could not be understood, though an express com-
mand to "rnaAe" it understood was given; and the other is
involved in the strangest difficulties.
We cannot therefore but regard the 9th chapter as a de-
signed and indispensable appendix of the 8th chapter. As
such, it gives the undoubted clue to the chronological period
of the vision, both as to its commencement, and " the manner
* The 70 weeks were closed up by the cutting off of Messiah, and
the great transactions which were essential " to make reconciliation
for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to anoint the
Most Holy ;" all of which were effected near the time—certainly in
the same year—of the death of Christ.
In 70 weeks, or sevens, of years,
7
there are 490 years. The death of Christ took place A. D. 33.
From 490
deduct 33
and we have 457 for the year B. C. when the 70 weeks must have
begun.
t From 2300 years, the whole period,
take 457, the year B. C. on which they began,
and A. D. 1843 is the year for their termination.
58 THE 2300 DAYS BEGIN WITH THE 70 WEEKS.
of time the spirit did signify " by that period. We also con-
sider the exact fulfilment of the 70 weeks of the 9th chapter
as a pledge that the whole period, which reaches to the end, will
be as exactly verified at the time appointed,
4. Admitting the 2300 years and seventy weeks begin
together, can we tell at ivhich of the decrees issued
in favor of the Jews they began ?
Such is the peculiar character of the prophecy of the
seventy weeks, that one would suppose there could
hardly be a doubt as to the time of their termination ;
and if a decree could be found which was issued four
hundred and ninety years prior to their termination,
it must follow that that is the decree referred to in the
prophecy. Our views on this question are those of
nearly or quite all the old evangelical writers upon the
subject ; and, as they cannot be suspected of any bias
in favor of Millerism, they may settle the point for us.
" Many are the opinions concerning the beginning and end
of these seventy weeks among chronologers. Some begin
them in the first year of Cyrus, and end them in the nativity of
Christ] others, from the second of Darius Nothus (successor to
Artaxerxes,) and conclude them with the destruction of Jerusa-
lem, by Titus Vespasian. Some make them commence from
the 20th of Artaxerxes, and to conclude with the passion and
death of Christ; and others will have them begin mthe 20th year
of Artaxerxes Mnemon, and end in the desolation of the city by the
Romans. But many there are who, rejecting all these,—with
best leason,—fix the beginning of them in the 1th of Artaxerxes
Longimanus, and their conclusion in the death of Christ—in
which termination most of the learned, both ancient and modern,
agree. For if we seriously consider the account of time, and
judge of it according to the best approved authors, the three
former opinions will be found either to exceed or come short of
the number. From the beginning of the Persian Empire to
Christ's nativity passed about 530 years. From the second
cf Darius Notlms, indeed, to the destruction of Jerusalem,
near 490 years intervened; but concerning any edict made by
that prince, there is not a word in scripture. From the 20th of
Artaxerxes Longimanus, to the death and passion of Christ,
are found 476, or 477, which come too short by thirteen of the
490; and betwixt the 20th of Artaxerxes Mnemon and the de-
struction of Jerusalem, are found but about 450, which come
1290 AND 1335 DAYS, OR YEARS. 59
far short of the account; as also the chronology of such as
would fetch the rise of the 490 from the first of Darius Medus,
and the second or sixth of Darius the son of Hystaspes.
" But if we reckon from this 7th of Artaxerxes Longimanus,
down by his successors in the Persian Empire, the Ptolemies
of Egypt, after that of Alexander the Great, and then by the
Asmoneans or Jewish princes, till we come at length to He-
rod the Great, and so to Christ, the just number of 490 we shall
find at his death, with such small difference as is pardonable
to so many authors handling so many things. Or if we reckon
the years of the Olympiads and the building of Rome, V)e shall
find Christ to have died in the 490th year after the promulgation
of this decree"—[Institution of General History, vol. 1., p. 209;
by Wm. Howell, LL. D., London, 1680. " See Dr. Clarke's
notes, Home's Int. Vol. 1., p. 336. Vol. 4, p. 191. Also
Note D, in the Diagram.]
1290 AND 1335 DAYS, OR YEARS.
The third prophetic period, which is considered a
fundamental part of Mr. Miller's calculations, is that
contained in the 12th of Dan. v. 12—the 1335 days,
with which the 1290 are intimately connected. The
only material objections against Mr. Miller's views of
this text, I believe, are, " 1. We cannot tell what the
event is from which the periods are to be dated ;" or
2. If we can tell what the event is, " we know not when
it took place."
As an attempt has also been made to pervert the
evident design and meaning of this text, as to the
events it predicts to take place at the termination of
the periods it contains, a few remarks in reference to
those particulars should be made.
What, then, are the events contemplated in the por-
tion of prophecy connected with these prophetic peri-
ods, and which are to take place at their termination?
The three verses so inseparably connected,—the last
in the prophecy,—are a part of the answer to the
60 1290 and 1335 days, or years.
question of Daniel, (v. 8,) which referred directly to
the wonders which had just passed before his mind
in the vision, (vs. 1 —3,) and which in the remarks
on the last period considered,—the 2300 years,—have
been shown to be, 1. The reign of Christ. 2. The
judgment scene. 3. TJie resurrection. 4. The glori-
fication of the righteous. " These wonders" had ap-
parently closed up the vision, (v. 4,) when there ap-
peared " other two," besides the angel of the vision,
(v. 5,) one of whom inquired, how long shall it be
to the end of these wonders? (v. 6.) The an-
swer to this question is given verse seventh. " And I
heard," says Daniel, (v. 8,) " but I understood not
:"
and, as if incapable of repressing his anxiety,—and
perhaps encouraged by hearing the answer to the other
question—" then said I," he continues, "O my Lord,
what shall be the end of these things ? '
*
What Daniel " heard" that he did not fully under-
stand, it is impossible to tell any farther than the mat-
ters which precede his question, and the answer to it,
imply. It is very clear that his question referred to
the " wonders" stated. " I heard" all that was said
of the wonders. "I heard the" question, "How
long to the end of" them? " I heard" the answer,
—
that they were to " be finished" when the predicted
political dispersion " of the holy people" should be
" accomplished,"—which makes this vision synchro-
nize in its termination, with the seven times and the
2300 years,—these wonders also come at the last end
of the indignation, the cleansing of the sanctuary and
the deliverance of the host.
Daniel's question does not appear to refer directly
to the time of the events brought to view, though the
answer, besides removing all doubt as to the propriety
of feeling or even expressing an anxiety in reference
to it, by giving an apparently gratuitous statement of
the time, without any intimation of reproof, would im-
ply that he referred in part to that.
It is more clearly intimated that Daniel wished to
have a fuller disclosure, 1. Of the fate and history of
1290 AND 1335 DAYS, OR YEARS. 61
the truth—an object of the deepest interest to the
heart of every true man of God. 2. Of the future
character and condition of "his people," as these must
be determined by the manner in which they should re-
gard the truth ; and, 3. Of his own personal prospects.
The answer agrees with this supposition.
u Go thy way, Daniel" It is not consistent fully to
remove the veil now, "for the words are closed up and
sealed till the time of the end. " But I may gratify you in
part. As to thy people, the church, " many shall be pu-
rified, andmade white, and tried;" —a most encouraging-
declaration, inasmuch as it implies a great increase of
numbers, superior attainments, and persevering fidel-
ity under affliction; "but the wicked shall do wick-
edly;" "iniquity shall abound." As to the truth,
"none of the wicked shall understand" or regard it;
11
but the wise shall understand." And as to the " end
of these things" to yourself, Daniel, "from the time
that the daily (sacrifice) shall be taken away and the
abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall
be 1290 days. Blessed is he that wT
aiteth and cometh
to the 1335 days."
" But go thou thy way till the end be, {the end
of these wonders ,) for thou shalt rest (the condition of
the righteous dead from their decease till the resur-
rection, Rev. vi. 11 ; xiv. 13,) and stand in thy lot"
(or, more literally, stand up for, i. e., be raised from
the dead, to receive thy part in the inheritance) " at the
end of the days."
Here Daniel is informed, 1. That he must be satis-
fied " till the end," when the " wonders" to which
his question referred will undoubtedly " be finished."
2. That "the end" shall come " at the end of
the days." 3. That his reward will take place at
the same time that those who wait and come, who are
purified, and made white, and tried, who live through
all the wickedness of the wicked, are " blessed."
4. By the evident bearing of Daniel's question, and
the connection of his reward, as to time, with those
who are blessed at the end of the 1335 days, we are
6
62 1290 and 1335 days, or years
assured that the righteous dead and the righteous liv-
ing participate alike in the glories then to be revealed
;
and we have also another statement of the time when
the " wonders " referred to take place. See Newton
on Proph., p. 622. Dr. A. Clarke, Dr. Gill, and
Poole, notes.
One clause in this portion of prophecy, which we
cannot but consider of the first importance, on account
of its bearing upon individual character, has been made
the occasion of no small degree of contempt and ridi-
cule-on the part of our enemies. It is this
—
the wise
shall understand. Only to quote this text seriously,
we are thought at once to lay claim to some super-
natural endowments of wisdom upon the mysteries of
prophecy, which exposes a person to the suspicion,
if not the direct charge, of " fanaticism"—perhaps
" insanity." As a maxim in theology, which applies
to the whole field of practical and experimental reli-
gion, the principle of this text is asserted from every
truly evangelical pulpit in the Christian world ; and why
should so many of those who fill these pulpits, and their
hearers, take the same position in reference to their sec-
ond advent brethren that the infidel and neologist take
in reference to the whole church? " The wise shall
understand !" " The wise man built his house upon
a rock !" " The wisdom of this world is foolishness
with God!" Have these, and other portions of the
word of God, too numerous to mention, no meaning?
are or they now to be thrown away 1 Surely those who
would harbor a supposition of the kind are the ones to
make an apology for pretensions to fancied endow-
ments. They are the ones who assume to be " wise"
enough to decide a question without " hearing it," or
without even using the means which man always must
use, in his present condition, especially in a case where
the plain word and the grace of God are his only hope
of success.
Or if the offensive text is used with particular ref-
erence to the events and times of the prophecy in which
it stands,—as the best commentators have supposed,
1290 AND 1335 DAYS, OR YEARS. 63
(see Clarke on vs. 4 and 9,) and as the Hebrew and
some other versions positively and clearly assert,
—
and we can obtain a satisfactory understanding of the
prophecy in these respects, we shall certaiuly rejoice
that our attention has been called to the subject,
—
that we have been favored with the means and oppor-
tunities for understanding it, —and above all for a con-
sciousness that God has disposed us by his Spirit to
use these means, as all the means of salvation must be
used to become effectual. If others prefer to sneer
and mock, rather than to take this coarse, they will
have no complaint to make, but against themselves, if
they are " in darkness, and that day overtakes them
as a thief!"
We pass to consider objection 1. What is the event
from which these periods are to be dated 1
" From the time that the daily (sacrifice) shall be
taken away and the ABOMINATION that maketh
DESOLATE SET UP."
What may this "daily," and " abomination that
maketh desolate," be? The word abomination is ap-
plied as a general name of every substitute for the
true worship of God—the most revolting idolatry, or
the nominally true worship corrupted and perverted
Deut. xii. 31. Jer. viii. 12. fizek. xvi. 50. Rev. xvii.
4, 5. Daniel uses the word in reference to both of
these forms of wickedness, chap. ix. 27, where the
instruments of effecting and perpetuating the desola-
tion of the city and sanctuary are spoken of; but to
which of them does it apply in this text ? We may
be assisted in settling its true application by determin-
ing the meaning of " the daily." Upon the meaning
of this very ambiguous term, there are but two, or at
farthest three, opinions. The older and more preva-
lent opinion applies it to the Jewish worship ; a few
apply it, in a secondary or figurative sense, to the true
Christian worship, of which the Jewish was typical
;
recently it has been applied, and I think it will be
seen to be the t*ie application, to Paganism. That it
cannot apply to the Jewish worship is evident from
64 1290 and 1335 days, or years.
this circumstance, which has been an insurmountable
difficulty with every commentator who has attempted
it ; these periods, understood literally or figuratively,
and dated from any " taking away" of that worship,
cannot possibly bring us to the events predicted, or to
any other events worthy of note. And this circum-
stance, if there were no other, would be sufficient to
settle the question that the Jewish worship cannot be
intended by " the daily." There is no agreement be-
tween its history " and the words of the prophecy"
which speak of it, supposing the " daily" " to relate"
to the Jewish worship.
Again ; the Jewish worship is never called the daily
or daily sacrifice, in any other part of the word of
God. There would be as much propriety in calling
it the yearly, monthly, weekly, evening, or morning
sacrifice, as the daily sacrifice.
The word occurs, as a proper name, only in the
book of Daniel ; and in each of the five places in which
it is found, the word u sacrifice" is in italics, implying
that the original would not authorize its insertion, but
that the translators introduced it to express what they
supposed to be the sense of the passage.
The only other translation of the word rendered
" daily," of which I have any knowledge, is equally
obscure as the received text. It would read " the
continual," or " constant." (Hengstenburgh.) But it
is evident that if the Jewish worship had been intended
by Daniel, he would have made use of a term which
could not have been misunderstood.
Can anything be done, then, to determine the appli-
cation of that word 1 Have we any other source of
light? I think we have. It is the principle of anal-
ogy, or comparison. " Comparing spiritual things
with spiritual." I cannot state that principle, in its
application to the present case, in a more striking man-
ner than by giving an item of Mr. Miler's experience,
as stated by himself. I insert this at length for two
reasons. 1. As a striking instance irfwhich God has
signally honored the principle he has given to guide
1290 AND 1335 DAYS, OR YEARS. 65
us in the study of his word. 2. To induce others to
follow so worthy and successful an example. Preach-
ing on this text, " All scripture is given by inspiration
of God," &c, he dwelt upon the mode of studying
the Bible. He said
—
" I was once a deist, and continued so for twelve years;
and I will tell you how 1 came to be a deist. I was taught to
read the Bible from my youth, by my father and mother, and
at school. But I was taught in such a manner that it seemed
to be full of contradictions. I used to go to our minister,
when he called at our house, and ask him what such and such
texts meant, and how to reconcile those which appeared so
contradictory. He would say, 'You cannot understand it.'
I would ask, Do you understand it 1 ' No,' he would say.
Well, did God mean to keep us in the dark 1 ' O, it is re-
vealed in a mystical manner.' But is not God a wise God 1
and could not he make it plain 1 Is he not just and good, and
will he punish us for not understanding that which is a mys-
tery 1 They at last would have nothing to do with me. I
looked upon the Bible as priestcraft, and became a deist. I
continued so till I came out of the service. I was in the army
two years and a half.
" In the month of May, 1816, I was brought under convic-
tion, and O, what horror filled my soul ! I forgot to eat. The
heavens appeared like brass, and the earth like iron. Thus I
continued till October, when God opened my eyes ; and O,
my soul, what a Saviour I discovered Jesus to be! My sins
fell like a burden from my soul: and then how plain the Bible
seemed to me ! It all spoke of Jesus ; he was in every page
and every line. O, that was a happy day! I wanted to go
right home to heaven; Jesus was all to me, and I thought I
could make everybody else see him as I saw him, but I wars
mistaken.
" During the twelve years I was a deist, I read all the his-
tories I could find; but now I loved the Bible. It taught of
Jesus ! But still there was a good deal of the Bible that was
dark to me. In 1818 or 19, while conversing with a friend to
whom I made a visit, and who had known and heard me talk
while I was a deist, he inquired, in rather a significant man-
ner, 'What do you think of this text, and that!' referring to
the old texts I objected to while a deist. I understood what
he was about, and replied—If you will give me time, I will
tell you what they mean. 'How long time do you want V
I don't know, but I will tell you, I replied, for t could not
believe that God had given a revelation that could not be un-
6*
66 1290 and 1335 days, or years.
derstood. I then resolved to study my Bible, believing I could
find out what the Holy Spirit meant. But as soon as 1 had
formed this resolution the thought came to me—* Suppose you
find a passage that you cannot understand, what will you dol*
This mode of studying the Bible then came to my mind:
—
I
will take the words of such passages , and trace them through the
Bible, and find out their meaning in this way. I had Cruden's
Concordance; which I think is the best in the world; so I
took that and my Bible, and set down to my desk, and read
nothing else, except the newspapers a little, for I was deter-
mined to know what my Bible meant. I began at Genesis,
and read on slowly; and when I came to a text that I could
could not understand, I searched through the Bible to find out
what it meant. After I had gone through the Bible in this
way, O, how bright and glorious the truth appeared! I found
what I have been preaching to you. I was satisfied that the
seven times terminated in 1843. Then I came to the 2300
days; they brought me to the same conclusion; but I had no
thought of finding out when the Saviour was coming, and I
could not believe it; but the light struck me so forcibly I did
not know what to do. Now, I thought, I must put on spurs and
breeching; I will not go faster than the Bible, and I will not fall
behind it. Whatever the Bible teaches, I will hold on to it.
But still there were some texts that I could not understand."
So much for his general mode of studying the Bi-
ble. On another occasion he stated his mode of set-
tling the meaning of the text before us—the meaning
of " the daily." " I read on," said he,
"And could find no other case in which it was found, but
in Daniel. I then took those words which stood in connec-
tion with it, ' take away.* He shall take away the daily.
« from the time the daily shall be taken away,' &c. I read
on, and thought I shouid find no light on the text; finally I
came to 2 Thess. ii. 7, 8. " For the mystery of iniquity doth
already work, only he who now letteth, will let, until he be
taken out of the way, and then shall that wicked be revealed,"
&c. And when I had come to that text, O, how clear and
glorious the truth appeared ! There it is! that is * the daily!'
Well, now, what does Paul mean by ' he who now letteth,'
or hinderethl By 'the man of sin,' and (
the wicked,' Popery
is meant. Well, what is it which hinder! Popery from being
revealed! Why, it is Paganism; well, then,' the daily' must
mean Paganism."
This led Mr. Miller to believe that the " daily" of
Daniel was Paganism, or idolatry.
1290 AND 1335 DAYS, OR YEARS. 67
If anything were wanting to confirm this view of
the daily, it is found in the exact agreement of history
with " the words of the prophecy." There are two
or three predicted cases of the taking away of the
daily in the prophecy of Daniel. The first is in
Dan. viii. In speaking of the operations of the " lit-
tle horn," it is said—" And by him the daily was
taken away, and the place of his sanctuary was cast
down. (v. 11.) And an host was given him against
the daily by reason of transgression" (v. 12.) But
here the question comes up—What power is denoted
by the " little horn" of Dan viii.?
I believe our opposers have become united in applying it to
Antiochus Epiphanes. The absurdities of this application have
been so often pointed out, not only since, but long before, the
present agitation of the subject began, that I shall not state
them here.*
Now, whatever may be denoted by this little horn, it is the
only power brought to view after the division of Alexan-
der's kingdom, down to the time when the sanctuary is to be
cleansed, and the last end of the indignation comes; enough,
one would think, to assure us that it never could apply to any
single individual, for the last end of the indignation has not
yet come, nor has the sanctuary been cleansed.
As this vision evidently harmonizes with the other visions
of Daniel in its scope and design, this little horn must corre-
spond with the fourth kingdom of the other visions, as the
ram and he-goat do with the second and third, and the fourth
kingdom must be Rome
—
Rome in its comprehensive character,
—
pagan and papal, a unit or divided.
Was Paganism " taken away by " the Roman civil power 1
We present the following statement of the most important and
well-known transactions in the history of the church and the
world, which we believe to be intended by this prophecy. It
refers to Constantine, the first Christian Emperor.
* " Sir Isaac Newton, Bishop Newton, and Dr. Hales, have
clearly shown that the Roman temporal power, and no other,
is intended: for, although some of the particulars may agree
very well with that king, (Antiochus,) yet others can by no
means be reconciled to him; while all of them -Agree and cor*
respond exactly with the Romans, and with no other povjer what-
ever."—Home's Int., vol. 4, p. 191.
68 1290 and 1335 days, or years.
" A. D. 324. His first act of government was the despatch
of an edict throughout the empire, exhorting his subjects to
embrace Christianity."—Croly, p. 55.
What can be meant by the " sanctuary " of Paganism 1
Paganism, and error of every kind, have their sanctuaries, as
well as truth. These are the temples or asylums consecrated
to their service. Some particular and renowned temple of
Paganism may, then, be supposed to be here spoken of. Which
of its numerous distinguished temples may it be 1 One of the
most magnificent specimens of classic architecture is called the
Pantheon. The name signifies " the temple or asylum of all the
gods." The "place" of its location is Rome.—Goodrich's
Universal His., and Guthrie's Geog., p. 606.
The idols of the nations conquered by the Romans were
sacredly deposited in some niche or apartment of this temple,
and in many cases became objects of worship by the Romans
themselves. Could we find a temple of Paganism that was
more strikingly ((
his sanctuary?" Was Rome, the city or
place of the Pantheon, " cast down by " the authority of the
state 1 Read the following well-known and remarkable facts
of history:
" The death of the last rival of Constantine had sealed the
peace of the empire. Rome was once more the undisputed
queen of nations. But, in that hour of elevation and splendor,
she had been raised to the edge of a precipice. Her next
step was to be downwards and irrecoverable. The change of
the government to Constantinople still perplexes the historian.
It was an act in direct repugnance to the whole course of the
ancient and honorable prejudices of the Roman mind. It was
the work of no luxurious Asiatic, devoted to the indulgences
of eastern customs and climates, but of an iron Conqueror,
born in the west, and contemptuous, like all Romans, of the
habits of the orientals; it was the work of a keen politician,
yet it was impolitic in the most palpable degree. Yet Con-
stantine abandoned Rome, the great citadel and throne of the
Caesars, for an obscure corner of Thrarp, and expended the
remainder of his vigorous and ambitious life in the double toil
of raising a colony into the capital of his empire, and degrading
the capital into the feeble honors and humiliated strength of a
colony."—€roly, p. 207-8.
Was there a host given to the state or government, of Rome
"by reason of transgression!" And, if so, what trans-
gression! We should suppose, at first sight, that, if a host
was given against Paganism by reason of transgression, the
transgression must be on the part of Paganism. What par-
ticular enormity could it be 1 What is the transgression
Which God has uniformly interposed to punish! Is it not
1290 AND 1335 DAYS, OR YEARS. 69
brought to view in the following brief but frightful item of
history 1
" A. D. 303. The progress of the faith stirred up the last
paroxysm of expiring Paganism. The sovereigns, Maximian
and Galerius,—ferocious soldiers, and owing their elevation to
the sword,—had already been secret persecutors in their camps
and palaces. The superstition of the mother of Galerius; the
insolence of the tyrant himself, inflated by recent Persian
victory; the artifices of the priesthood, dreading the rapid
extinction of their shrines; and the cold and infirm nature of
Diocletian, perhaps alarmed at the growing multitude of the
Christians,—had worked together, until the whole vengeance
exploded in one burst of popular, kingly, and military perse-
cution. The 23d of February of the year 303, the day of the
festival of the Terminalia, was appointed for levelling to the
ground the principal church of Nicomedia, the imperial resi-
dence. On the next day, the General Decree of persecution
was issued, commanding (1) the instant demolition of all the
Christian places of worship; (2) the death of all who dared to
woiship; (3) the delivery of the Scriptures to be burned ; (4)
the confiscation of all property belonging to the churches; (5)
the acceptance by the tribunals of every charge brought against
a Christian, the refusal of every complaint brought by a Chris-
tian, and, finally, the exclusion of the whole body from the pro-
tection of the law."—Croly, p. 205. See Fox* Book of
Martyrs.
If ever the Almighty interposed to avenge the injuries of
His people, might we not expect it in this case 1 Supposing
Paganism to be intended by the daily, we have here a most
literal and exact fufilment of this prophecy of the little horn in
the history of Rome and its doings in reference to Paganism.
The great subject of the vision of Dan. viii., to which the
question (v. 13) refers, is, the condition of the church and the cho-
sen inheritance, " trodden under foot." Now, what agents are
brought to view, in the most clear and striking representations
of the word of God, as sustaining this relation to the church
and the promised land 1 Daniel, in speaking of the city and
sanctuary, chap, ix., says, "For the overspreading of abomi-
nations, {plural.) he shall make it desolate even till the con-
summation. " As this prophecy, so far as the agents are con-
cerned, has become history, there can be no mistake about its
meaning. The desolation was completed by Rome, to whom
Christ undoubtedly refers, Luke xxi. 20, as one of the agents
of the work; it has been perpetuated by Rome, Pagan or
Papal, and the Mohamedans, till the present time.
Paganism and Popery are also brought to view, as the great
organizations of depravity by which the church has been " trod-
70 1290 and 1335 days, or years.
den under foot." The little horn of Daniel vii. (Popery) is
to " make war and prevail against the saints until the judg-
ment;" the same power that Paul and John saw " destroyed by
the brightness of Christ's coming."
There can be no doubt that Paul spoke of Pagan Rome and
Popery in 2 Thess. ii., or that the former is "what withheld ,"
that the latter " might be revealed in his time."
John is still more clear. The " great red dragon," Rev.
xiii. 3, is the admitted symbol of Pagan Rome. After he and
his angels had fought and prevailed not, vs. 7, 8, still, deter-
mined to make war with the woman and her seed, 17, he
gives his seat, and power, and great authority, unto the beast,
(Popery,) xiii. 2; and the same world that worshipped the
dragon, worships the beast also, 3, 4; also chap. xvii. 1,7, 15.
All the arguments from analogy will be seen, we think, to
be in favor of Mr. Miller's supposition that this "daily," or
continual, denotes Paganism.
By the different forms of Paganism,—which was the daily,
or then existing abomination of Daniel's day, and the " trans-
gression of desolation," Popery,—"the church has been trod-
den underfoot "from the days of the kings of Assyria unto this
day."
On this supposition, also, the question of the vision
might be thus paraphrased—" How long the vision"
which gives Paganism and Popery " to tread both the"
church and her inheritance " under foot?" Or to give
a still more specific construction,—as the question,
considered in relation to the previous statements of the
angel, with the answer, and subsequent communica-
tions, seem to indicate that it was intended to be un-
derstood,—it might be thus paraphrased—1. How
long the vision which gives both the sanctuary and
the host to be trodden under foot? 2. How long shall
the Pagan abomination tread them under foot? and 3.
How long shall Popery tread them under foot? The
answer to each part is given in the vision and the sub-
sequent prophecy. 1. The sanctuary shall be cleansed
at the time appointed. 2. " He—' the little horn'
—(Rome while a unit,) shall take away the daily"
—Paganism (viii. 11, 12.) 3. "They"—the con-
querors of the Roman empire—"shall take away
the daily, and they shall place the abomination that
maketh desolate." (xi. 31.) " And from the time
1290 AND 1335 DAYS, OR YEARS. 71
that the daily shall be taken away and the abomina-
tion that maketh desolate set up, there shall be 1290
days. Blessed is he that waiteth and cometh to the
1335 days. But go thou thy way till the end be, for
thou shalt rest and stand in thy lot at the end of the
days."
Will the prophecy in all these cases apply to Pa-
ganism? If the days are understood literally, I do not
know of any taking away of Paganism from which
these periods can bring us to the events spoken of;
we must therefore understand them to mean years, as
the best of the old writers have supposed.
But if the periods are to be dated from a taking
away merely, we should not know but it might be the
acts of imperial Rome that were referred to, only as
time should determine ; the text, however, is very ex-
act. The periods are to be dated " from the time that
the daily—Paganism—shall be taken away, and the
abomination that maketh desolate set up ;" a later act
must therefore be referred to.
As it is generally believed that Christ referred to
the armies of pagan Rome,—Matt. xxiv. 15,—the
question may arise—Can " the daily and the abomi-
nation of desolation" both refer to Paganism? Ans.
Christ undoubtedly referred to that abomination of
which Daniel spoke as the instrument of desolating
Jerusalem, for it was that of which he was speaking
;
and of course it is not to be supposed that he referred
to any other abomination than that which Daniel had
predicted should do that work "of vengeance"
—
unless Christ may be understood, as in some other
mixed prophecies, to refer also to the papal abomina-
tion, or antichrist, who should " sit in the temple of
God, showing himself that he is God ;" which should
be the signal to the church that "the desolation
thereof was nigh." If we understand Christ liter-
ally, the prediction of " Daniel the prophet," to which
he refers, must be that in chap. ix. 27.
Paganism or Popery might either of them, however,
be called "the abomination that maketh desolate"
72 1290 and 1335 days, or years.
when one was spoken of by itself, though, when
spoken of in connection, the then present desolation
might more properly and clearly be called the daily,
to distinguish it from that form of the desolation which
was to take its place, and of course was yet future.
It is very remarkable that Paul is just about as ambig-
uous as Daniel is supposed to be in speaking of the
existing scourge of the church in his day ; 2 Thess. ii.
5—8. Paul calls the pagan empire of Rome " He
who now letteth, or hindereth;" and which was to
continue " until he be taken out of the way ; and then
shall that Wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall
consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall de-
stroy with the brightness of his coming." The view
in each case is identical, the terms employed so simi-
lar, that there is hardly a difference. See Dr. Clarke's
notes on the words of Paul.
2. When did the event referred to in the prophecy
take place? The event, for the date of which we are
now to inquire, is not the giving of the saints into the
hand of Popery, but the change of religion in western
Rome, which gave to the Catholic faith
—" the abomi-
nation that maketh desolate," the "place" and the
power to act the part of Paganism. When was this
abomination placed in a position to start on its career
of usurpation, blasphemy and blood?
The date of the acts of the Christian emperors, as
they are called, is well known. It is also well known
that the same agents which destroyed the empire, re-
stored Paganism. It must be the Paganism of these
conquerors of the empire which gave place to Popery,
and to the transition then effected, the prophecy re-
fers. We wish to know its date. That France and
other nations of western Rome were pagan up to
the time of the conversion of Clovis, A. D. 496, we
have abundant proof.
" In the west, Remegius, bishop of Rheims, who
has been called the Apostle of the Gauls, labored with
great zeal to convert idolaters to Christ ; and not
without success, especially after Clovis, king of the
1290 AND 1335 DAYS, OR YEARS. 73
Franks, had embraced Christianity."—Mosheim, vol.
1, p. 379.
And still farther. " It is said that the conversion
of Clovis gave rise to the custom of addressing the
French monarch with the titles of Most Christian
Majesty, and Eldest Son of the Church ; for the kings
of the other barbarous nations which occupied the Ro-
man provinces, were still addicted to idolatry, or in-
volved in the errors of Arianism."—lb., vol. 1, p. 315.
The part taken by Clovis in behalf of the Catholic
faith, after his conversion, is clearly brought to view
by these extracts from Mosheim. But we wish to
present to our readers a more extended view of his
history, with the chronology of the important events
of his life. We quote from Gilford's History of
France, pp. 32, 39.
Speaking of the marriage of Clovis, which took
place A. D. 493, the history says
—
" The court of Burgundy, fearful of offending a young prince
whose arms were everywhere victorious, granted his request,
and the princess Clotilda was accordingly espoused to him.
The death of their first son, who, with the king's consent, re-
ceived baptism, notwithstanding the earnest remonstrances and
soothing persuasions of his wife, inspired him with aversion to
the Christian religion. His conversion took place 496.
Between that time and 508, " by alliances," "capit-
ulations," and conquests, " the Arborici," the " Ro-
man garrisons in the west," Brittany, the Burgundians
and the Visgoths, were brought into subjection.
" A. D. 508. It was on his return from this (last) expedi-
tion* that he received, at the city of Tours, the ambassadors
* Mazary, in his History of France, page 16, places these
latter among the " religious wars " of Clovis, and says they
" were waged under the specious pretence of religion."
Baronius, in connection with the details of these wars, re-
fers to Clovis as a model for the encouragement of princes,
and ascribes the expenditures and toils of the war to his piety,
and his success to the favor of God. We give the original.
" His visis, jam narrare aggrediamur, quisnam fuerit Chrie-
7
74 1290 and 1335 days, or years.
of Anastasius, emperor of the East, who sent him the title and
insignia of patrician and consul, and conferred on him the dig-
nified appellation of August. The new patrician, after dis-
missing the ambassadors, returned to Paris, which he made
the capital of his empire. Success had hitherto attended all
the plans of Clovis; and, allowing for the ferocious and mar-
tial spirit which then prevailed, he had preserved his fame
from any material pollution ; but his good fortune and his hero-
ism appear to have forsaken him at the same time. It was
probably to wipe out the infamy incurred by the commission of so
many crimes, that he founded a great number of churches and
monasteries. It was probably from similar motives that he as-
sembled a council of thirty -three bishops in the town of Orleans,
A. D. 511. We learn from history* tliat it was not only
assembled by his orders, but that he fixed on the topics of
discussion. The assembling of the council of Orleans was
the last remarkable event in the life of Clovis, who died the
same year, at the age of forty-five, and was buried in the
church of St. Peter and St. Paul, which he had caused to be
built." See also Howel's Int. of Gen. Hist., vol. 3, pp. 342
—347.
Paganism in the Western Roman Empire, though
it doubtless retarded the progress of the Christian
faith, especially in those nations which were mo-
lested, as in the case of England,! by the inroads of
tianissimi Principis bellicus apparatus, nonnisi praevia religione
dispositus: ut simul intelligas, quantum valeat ad debellandos
hostes cum Dei tiinore pietas optime custodita."—Tome 6,
p. 695. Venetiis.
* The letter of the bishops assembled at this council, ad-
dressed to Clovis, begins as follows,—Domino suo Catholicae
Ecclesia filio Clodoveo gloriosissimo Regi. Omnes sacerdo-
tes, quos ad Concilium venire jussistis, quiatantu ad Catholi-
cae religionis cultum gloriosae fidei cura vos excitat, &c.
Bar. Tome 6, p. 698.
f At the same time that this change was going on among
the nations on the continent, a similar one, though not so ma-
ture and positive in its character, nor so fully presented in any
history now extant, was at work in another important division
of the fallen empire—England. The truth in the case should
not be lost.
The conquest of England by the Anglo-Saxons was not
effected till about A. D. 585. At the period now before us,
Arthur was king, and the Britons triumphant. And amidst all
1290 AND 1335 DAYS, OR YEARS. 75
the barbarous clans, who continued idolaters,—hence-
forth had not the power, if it had the disposition, to
suppress the Catholic faith, or to hinder the encroach-
ments of the Roman pontiff.
From that time, the Papal abomination was tri-
umphant, so far as Paganism was concerned. Its fu-
ture contests were with the other Christian sects, who
were always treated as heretics ; and with princes,
who were always treated as rebels, or dividers of the
body of Christ. The prominent powers of Europe
gave up their attachment to Paganism only to perpet-
uate its abominations in another form ; for Paganism
only needed to be baptized to become Christian, in the
Catholic sense ; —they became wedded to it as a mat-
ter of policy, and when the interests or vengeance of
the fable and uncertainty with which the history of England,
at that period, is surrounded, there is a general agreement
among historians,
—
1. That Arthur put an end to Paganism among the Britons.
" Having succeeded in this enterprise, (one of his battles,)
he directed his course to York, where he is said to have estab-
lished the Christian worship on the ruins of the Pagan."—Rees*
Encyclopedia, art. Arthur.
2. That he was the first Christian king; and that he was
crowned by a Catholic bishop; and that his coronation was
according to the Papal mode in its more mature condition.
«' Arthur was crowned by Dubricius, Archbishop of Caerleon."
—Kippis. Biog. Brit.
His royal and military equipments exhibited "his shield,
whereon was pictured the Virgin Mary, bearing the child Jesus in
her arms. 9 '
—lb.
On the date of his coronation there is a difference of opin-
ion among historians. Some place it as late as A. D. 516;
others place it in 508.
Rapin, who claims to be more exact in Ae chronology of
events in his history, dates them as follows:
—
1. " He mounted the throne of Dammonium in 467, at the
age of fifteen.
2. " In 476 he was created Patrician by Ambrosius.
3. " In 508 he was elected Monarch of Britain.
4. " In 52S he assumed the imperial purple."—Book II., p.
129. See Milton's History of England, Book III., A. D. 508.
76 1290 and 1335 days, or years.
its presiding minister made the demand, their posses-
sions and thrones,—perhaps their lives,—must be laid
on the altar.
We pass to consider the condition of the See of
Rome, as indicated by the history of the ruling Pope
at that time, and his relation to the kings of the
earth. Symmachus was Pope from 498 or 9 to 514.
His pontificate was distinguished by these remarkable
circumstances and events :
—
1. He "left Paganism" when he entered "the
«hurch of Rome."
2. He found his way to the Papal chair by striving
with his competitor even unto blood.—Du Pin.
3. By the adulation paid to him as the successor of
St. Peter. " How greatly the ideas of many had ad-
vanced, respecting the powers of the bishop of Rome,
cannot be better shown than by the example of En-
nodius, the insane flatterer of Symmachus, who,
among other extravagant expressions, said
—
The Pon-
tiff judges in the place of God."—Mosh., vol. 1, p. 389.
4. By the excommunication of the emperor Anas-
tasius. The position of Symmachus against the em-
peror was not to punish the latter as a heretic, but to
bear down, whenever prudence would permit, every-
thing which dared to oppose his authority.
Read the following from Du Pin. It shows the
interesting position of the bishop at an important point
of the contest. According to Baronius, the emperor
was excommunicated 499. This letter was probably
written about 503.
" The sixth letter of Symmachus is his apology, wherein
he vindicates himself from the crimes charged upon him hy the
emperor. After calling upon the whole city of Rome to wit-
ness that he had ftever warped from the faith he had received
in the church of Rome, since he left Paganism, he reproves
him (the emperor) for despising the authority of the Holy See,
and of the bishop who was successor to St. Peter. He main-
tains that his dignity is higher than that of the emperor. * Let us
compare,' says he to him, * the dignity of a bishop with that
of an emperor. There is as great difference between them as
between the things of thi3 earth, whereof the latter has the ad-
1200 AND 1335 DAYS, OR* YEARS. 77
ministration, and the things of heaven, whereof the former is
the dispenser. Wherefore the office of a bishop is at least
equal, if not superior, to yours. Honor God in us, and we
will honor him in you; but if you have no respect for God, you
cannot claim that privilege from him whose hand you despise.
You say I have excommunicated you with the consent of the
senate. In this I have done nothing but followed the righte-
ous example of my predecessors. You say that the senate
has evil entreated you. If you think that you are abused by
exhorting you to separate from heretics, can it be said that
you would have treated us well when you would have forced
us to join with heretics'? You say that what Accasius has
done does not at all concern you; if it be so, trouble yourself no
more about him, join no more with his followers. If you do
not this, it is not we that excommunicate you, but yourself, by
joining yourself to one that is excommunicated."—History of
Ecclesiastical Writers, vol. 1, p. 527. Dublin, 1722.
The contest between the bishop and the emperor
was but a continuation of the quarrel which arose
between the churches of the East and West upon the
introduction of this clause :
" Thou who wast crucified
for us /" as an appendage to the established devotions
of the church in the days of the emperor Zeno. Anas-
tasius adopted the " Henoticon'' of Zeno—a sort of
compromise, which in the present case only served to
make three parties of two. But Symmachus was not
satisfied with that.
" He charged the emperor, and his bishop, Accasius, and
others, with contempt for the council of Chalcedon, and some
other things. But in reality, as many facts demonstrate, Acca-
sius became thus odious to the Roman pontiff because he denied
by his actions the supremacy of the Roman See.
" The Greeks defended the character and memory of their
bishop against the aspersions of the Romans. This contest
was protracted till the following century, when the pertinacity
of the Romans triumphed, and caused the names of Accasius
and Peter Fullo to be stricken from the sacred register, and
consigned, as it were, to perpetual infamv."—Mosh. vol. 1,
p. 369.
A word of this triumph of " Roman pertinacity,'
'
and we have done with this point. By the strength
secured to the Catholic cause in the west, and the
7*
78 1290 and 1335 days, or years.
agency of the vicars and other agents of the See of
Rome, of whom we hear at this time in several
nations, the Papal party in Constantinople were
" placed" in a position to justify open hostilities in
behalf of their master at Rome. In 508 the whirl-
wind of fanaticism and civil war swept in fire and
blood through the streets of the eastern capital.
*' The people of Constantinople were devoid of any rational
f>rinciples of freedom; but they held as a lawful cause of rebel-
ion the color of a livery-in the races, or the color of a mystery
in the schools. The Trisagion, with and without this obnox-
ious addition, was chanted in the cathedral by two adverse
choirs, and, when their lungs were exhausted, they had re-
course to the more solid arguments of sticks and stones: the
aggressors (Catholics) were punished by the emperor, and
defended by the patriarch; and the crown and mitre were
staked on the event of this momentous quarrel. The streets
were instantly crowded with innumerable swarms of men,
women, and children; the legions of monks, in regular array,
marched, and shouted, and fought, at their head. ' Christians!
this is the day of martyrdom! let us not desert our spiritual
father! anathema to the Manichsean tyrant! he is unworthy to
reign!' Such was the Catholic cry; and the galleys ofAnasr
tasius lay upon their oars before the palace till the patriarch
had pardoned his penitent, and hushed the waves of the trou-
bled multitude. The triumph of Macedonius was checked by
a speedy exile; but the zeal of the fleck was again exasper-
ated by the same question—* Whether one of the Trinity had
been crucified!' On this momentous occasion, the blue and
green factions of Constantinople suspended their discord, and
the civil and military powers were annihilated in their pres-
ence. The keys of the city and the standards of the guards
were deposited in the forum of Constantine—the principal
station and camp of the faithful, (the Catholics.) Day and
night they were incessantly busied either in singing hymns
to the honor of their God, or in pillaging and murdering the
servants of their prince. The head of his favorite monk, the
friend, as they styled him, of the enemy of the Holy Trinity,
was borne aloft on a spear; and the fire-brands which had
been darted against heretical structures, diffused the undistin-
guishing flames over the most orthodox buildings. The stat-
ues of the emperor were broken, and his person was con-
cealed in a suburb, till, at the end of three days, he dared to
implore the mercy of his subjects. (Popery is triumphant.)
Without his diadem, and in the posture of a suppliant, Anas-
1290 AND 1335 DAYS, OR YEAfcS. 79
tasius appeared on the throne of the circus. The Catholics,
before his face, rehearsed the genuine Trisagion; they exulted
in the offer, which he proclaimed by the voice of a herald, of
abdicating the purple; they listened to the admonition that,
since all could not reign, they should previously agree in the
choice of a sovereign; and they accepted the blood of two un-
popular ministers, whom their master, without hesitation, con-
demned to the lions."—Gibbon, A. D. 508—514.
This first outbreak in the East was followed by a
still more important "rebellion," in which Yitalian,
whom Gibbon styles " the champion of the Catholic
faith," "depopulated Thrace, and exterminated six-
ty-five thousand of his fellow-Christians."
As the part taken by Vitalian exhibits in a striking
light the desolating character of Popery at this time,
we give also what Du Pin says of him. Vol. pp. 531,
532.
" Vitalian, general of the cavalry of the emperor Anas-
tasius, rose in arms against him, and came with his army
towards Constantinople. He made religion the pretence of
his revolt, and declared that he had taken arms for no other
reason but to protect the Catholics, and restore Macedonius to
the See of Constantinople. The emperor was forced to make
peace with him, upon condition that a council should be called
to regulate the affairs of the church, by the advice of the Bishop
of Rome. This obliged the emperor to write to Pope Hormis-
das, successor of Symmachus, to pray him that he would be
mediator for pacifying these commotions, and that he would
labor to restore the unity of the church."*
We now invite our modern Gamaliels to take a po-
sition*with us in the place of the sanctuary of Pagan-
ism, (since claimed as the "patrimony of St. Peter,")
in 508.
We look a few years into the past, and the rude
Paganism of the northern barbarians is pouring down
upon the nominally Christian empire of Western Rome
—triumphing everywhere—and its triumphs every-
where distinguished by the most savage cruelty
;
Christians and Christian priests are slaughtered in
* Howel refers to these events as a series which character-
ized "these years," i. e. A. D. 508—515,
80 1290 and 1335 days, or years.
cold blood, or deem it a mark of peculiar mercy when
their petitions, that life only may be spared, are granted
them. The empire falls, and is broken into frag-
ments. One by one the lords and rulers of these
fragments abandon their Paganism, and profess the
Christian faith. In religion, the conquerors are yield-
ing to the conquered. But still Paganism is triumph-
ant. Among its supporters there is one stern and suc-
cessful conqueror. More through fear than respect,
he is allowed to make a Christian princess his wife.
But soon he also bows before the power of the new
faith, and becomes its champion. He is still triumph-
ant, but, as a hero and conqueror, reaches the zenith
at the point we occupy, A. D. 508.
In or near the same year, the last important subdi-
vision of the fallen empire is publicly, and by the cor-
onation of its triumphant "monarch," christianized.
The pontiff for the period on which we stand, is a
recently converted Pagan. The bloody contest which
placed him in the chair was decided by the interposition
of an Arian king. He is bowed to, and saluted as filling
ii
the place of God on earth." The senate is so far un-
der his power that, on suspicion that the interests of the
See of Rome demand it, they excommunicate the em-
peror. In this contest we hear the Pope " speaking
great things and blasphemies," and assuming " to change
times and laws." And by the power of his spiritual
and military agents, who are posted as their service is
required,* to use the figurative language of the Bible,
in referring to civil and ecclesiastical dignitaries, he
* In the account of a visit of Avitus, bishop of Vienna, and
some others, to Gondebald, king of the Burgundians, during
the war between him and Clovis, "Gondebald, seeing them,
came to meet them, and spoke reproachfully of the king of the
Franks, Clovis. The bishops answered him, That the way to
make peace was to agree about the faith."—Du Pin, vol. 1. p.
530.
Vitalian was also recognised as the avowed agent and in-
strument ofthe Roman See in the East.—lb.
1290 AND 1335 DAYS, OR YEARS. 81
points to " the stars of heaven and the constellations
thereof," and demands their subjection to his will
;
and in 508 the mine is sprung beneath the throne of
the Eastern Empire. The result of the confusion and
strife it occasions, is the humiliation of its rightful
lord. Now, the question is,
—
At what time was Pa-
ganism so far suppressed as to make room for its sub-
stitute and successor, the Papal abomination ? When
was this abomination placed in a position to start on
its career of blasphemy and blood 1 Is there any other
date for its being "placed" or "set up" in the room
of Paganism but 508? If the mysterious enchantress
has not now brought all her victims within her power,
she has taken her position, and some have yielded to
the fascination. The others are at length subdued,
" and kings, and peoples, and multitudes, and nations,
and tongues," are brought under a spell, wT
hich pre-
pares them, even while " drunken with the blood of
saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus,"
to " think they are doing God service," and to fancy
themselves the exclusive favorites of heaven, while
becoming an easier and richer prey for the damnation
of hell.
Commencing the prophetic periods of the text at
this date, and understanding them as our most able
commentators have done, and as they must be under-
stood, (for supposing them to mean literal days, they
bring us to nothing worthy of note,) by the first pe-
riod, 1290 days, or years, the only one now fulfilled,
wT
e are brought to the date of events of the most sub-
lime and important character in the history of the
church or the world. At the termination of the other,
the 1335 days or years, we most assuredly expect the
fulfilment of what remains : Daniel, with all the right-
eous dead, will stand in his lot; the living righteous
will be changed, and, " glorified together," they
" shall shine as the brightness of the firmament, and
as the stars forever and ever." The first period ter-
minated in 1798, the last will terminate in 1843.
82 TIME, TIMES, AND A HALF, &C.
THE TIME, TIMES AND HALF A TIME ; 1260
DAYS, OR YEARS, AND 42 MONTHS.
The " time, times and a half," or its equivalents,
express the period, during which "the saints were to
be given into the hand of the little horn," (Popery,)
Dan. vii. 25,—the " two witnesses were to prophesy
in sackcloth," Rev. xi. 3, "the holy city was to be
trodden under foot," Rev. xi. 2 ; the church was to be
in " the wilderness," Rev. xii. 6, 14 ; and " the beast
that made war with the saints and overcame them was
to continue," Rev. xiii. 5.
The period in any one of these cases evidently
synchronizes with all the rest. In the different forms
in which they occur, they express the period of the
legalized depression of the true church, and of the
relative condition of her great persecutor, Popery.
The only objections against Mr. M'§. view of this
period, which are worthy of our consideration, are
1. " Let us suppose it to commence where we may,
it is to end with the destruction of Popery, at the com-
ing of Christ, and the introduction of the millennium."
2. " It is difficult, if not impossible, to tell where it
begins."
1 . Does the period end with the destruction of Popery
at the coming of Christ J In applying this period to
the history of Popery and the church, there are several
points which demand our particular attention.
1st. It became a persecutor, " the abomination that
maketh desolate," before " any authoritative effort
to give supremacy to the See of Rome." 2d. It is to
continue to make " war with the saints," after its
" dominion is taken away ;" and to " prevail against
them, until the Ancient of Days shall come, and
judgment shall be given to the saints of the Most High,
and the time comes that the saints possess the king-
dom."
3. This prophetic period is in every case stated to
give the time of the dominion of Popery over the true
church. " They, the saints, shall be given into his
TIME, TIMES, AND A HALF, &C. 83
hand. " " The holy city shall they tread under foot.
'
'
11
And power was given unto him to continue forty-
two months." 4. It could not be in the nature of the
case that such an event could take place till after the
nominally Christian faith had gained the ascendency-
over Paganism. This is very clearly intimated both
by Daniel and John.
Daniel says, chap. xi. 31, in speaking of the conquerors of
Rome, "They shall take away the daily, and they shall place
the abomination that maketh desolate." John, in speaking" of
Popery as the mother of harlots and abominations of the earth,
which sat upon the beast, says, Rev. xvii., '* God hath put in
their hearts (the kings) to fulfil his will, and to agree, aYrd
give their kingdom unto the beast, until the words of God shall be
fulfilled." Daniel says again, " And they shall take away
his dominion to consume and destroy it unto the end, vii. 26.
John adds, xvii. 16, "These shall hate the whore, and shall
make her desolate, and naked, and shall eat her flesh, and
burn her with fire." France, during the reign of Clovis, was
the principal actor in placing " the abomination;" and France
under Napoleon was the prime mover in the drama which
brought the desolator into desolation. * By a very common
error,' says Mr. Croly, 4
it has been conceived that the close
of the 1260 years was to be the extinction of the Papacy, but
the prophet says no more than that it. shall be the end of its
power over the saints. Its end is predicted to be subsequent,
and cotemporaneous with the great, battle of God Almighty.
At this moment, the Popedom, shaking off the sackcloth and
dust of the French Revolution, is rising into a haughty stature
and strength, ominous of the part it is yet to perform, and in
the midst of which it shall be extinguished by the last avenging
judgments of heaven.'
We have seen that the final change in the religion
of Western Rome from Paganism to the Christian faith,
was so far effected as to place the latter in the ascen-
dency in A. D. 508.
2. When did the bishop of Rome receive " authority,"
"power" and "dominion " over the saints?
That Popery is the power denoted by the " little horn " of
Dan. vii. is clear, inasmuch as the description of it will apply
to no other power. No Daguerreotype likeness can agree
84 TIME, TIMES, AND A HALF, &C.
better with the original than this description does with Popery.
Nearly all Protestant writers on the prophecies (excepting a
few who have recently written with the avowed design of
opposing Mr. Miller's calculations) agree in the opinion that
Popery is intended by this power.—See Mr. Dowling's note,
p. 18: and Dr. Clarke on 2 Thess. chap. ii.
To ascertain the commencement of the prophetic period
named for the triumph of Popery, we must take particular
notice of the facts stated in the prophecy upon its history prior
to the saints being given into his hand.
1. It was to rise '"
after " the division of Rome into ten
kingdoms.
2. It was to " subdue" three " kings" or kingdoms.*
3. These were to be "three of the first" kings, or king-
doms.
4. The period is to be dated from the time that "power
was given unto him."
Before A. D. 483 the following ten kingdoms had risen in
western Rome.
1. The Huns, about A. D. 356.
2. The Ostrogoths, 377.
3. The Visigoths, 378.
4. The Franks, 407.
5. The Vandals, 407.
6. The Sueves and Alans, 407.
7. The Burgundians, 407.
8. The Heruli and Turingi, 476.
9. The Saxons, 476.
10. Lombards in the north of Germany, 483, in Hungary,
526.—See Meede, Newton, &c.
Have we any account of three of these being " plucked up"
(conquered) by, or in behalf of, Popery 1 The wars in behalf
of the Catholic faith began early in the sixth century.
The fall of the first of these kingdoms by the agency of Popery,
and its date, is thus noticed by Du Pin, who was himself a
Catholic. '* Gaul was divided between the Burgundians and
Franks. The Burgundians were Arians: the Franks were
more happy, for most of the nation followed their king, Clovis,
who had embraced Christianity, and was baptized in 496.
The power of the Burgundians having been destroyed in 524,
*By comparing verses 37, 39, and 40 with verse 44 of the
2d chapter, and verses 17, 18, 23 and 24 of the 7th chapter,
the reader will perceive that the word ** king" is frequently
used to signify " kingdom" in the prophecy of Daniel.
TIME, TIMES, AND A HALF, &C. 85
the Catholic religion flourished throughout France, under the
kings of the first race."—Du Pin's Ecclesiastical History, vol.
2, p. 257, London, 1724.
The kingdom of the Vandals in Africa, who were also
Arians, fell A. D. 533 before the arms of Justinian, emperor
of the east; a war which was from beginning to end avowedly
a Catholic war.
The war against the Ostrogoths, in Italy, commenced A. D.
534, by the same army which had conquered the Vandals, and
in March, A. D. 538, the Pope was placed in quiet possession
of the capital—Rome.
We have before us a work on The Apocalypse, by
Rev. George Croly, of England, published in 1827,
and dedicated to the Right Rev. Thomas, Lord Bishop
of Salisbury, in which he gives the detailed history of
the acts from wT
hich the supremacy of the Pope is to
be dated. We give an extended quotation from his
work, with the references and original extracts, which
we consider decisive testimony of the time when
Popery was " set up," that is, when the saints were
formally and publicly given into its hands.
See, also, " Prospects of the Church of Christ," by
Hon. G. T. Noel, p. 100 ;
" Political Destiny of the
Earth," by Wm. Cunninghame, Esq., p. 28. Ency-
clopedia of Rel. Knowl., art. Antichrist.
Mr. Croly, pp. 113—117, says:
A. D. 533, the Pope was declared Head of all the
Churches, by the Emperor Justinian.
The circumstances of a transaction so pregnant with the
most momentous results to the Christian world, are to be found
at large in the annals of Baronius, the chief Romish Ecclesias-
tical historian.*.
Justinian being about to commence the Vandal war, an en-
terprise of great difficulty, was anxious previously'to settle the
religious disputes of his capital. The Nestorian heresy had
formed a considerable number of partisans, who, conscious of
the Emperor's hostility to their opinions, had appealed to the
bishop of Rome. To counteract the representations of Cyrus
and Eulogius, the Nestorian deputies, the Emperor sent two
distinguished prelates, Hypatius, bishop of Ephesus, and Deme-
trius, bishop of Phillippi, in the character of envoys, to Rome.
*Vol. 7, p. 194, fol. Antwerpiae.
8
86 TIxME, TIMES, AND A HALF, &C.
Justinian had been remarkable for taking an unkingly share
in the dubious theology of the time: he felt the passions of a
disputant; and to his latest day enjoyed the triumphs of con-
troversy with the delight of a zealot, as he sometimes signalized
them by the fury of a persecutor. On this occasion, whether
through anxiety to purchase the suffrage of the Roman bishop,
the patriarch of the west, whose opinion influenced a large
portion of Christendom; or to give irresistible weight to the
verdict which was to be pronounced in his own favor; he
decided the precedency which had been contested by the
bishops of Constantinople from the foundation of the city, and
in the fullest and most unequivocal form declared the bishop
of Rome the chief of the whole ecclesiastical body of the
empire.
His letter was couched in these terms: " Justinian, pious,
fortunate, renowned, triumphant, Emperor, Consul, &c, to John
the most holy Archbishop of our city of Rome, and patriarch.
" Rendering honor to the apostolic chair, and to your holi-
ness, as has been always and is our wish, and honoring your
blessedness as a father; we have hastened to bring to the
knowledge of your holiness all matters relating to the state of
the churches. It having been at all times our great desire to
preserve the unity of your apostolic chair, and the constitution
of the holy churches of God which has obtained hitherto, and
still obtains.
" Therefore we have made no delay in subjecting and uniting
to your holiness all the priests of the whole east.*
" For this reason we have thought fit to bring to your notice
the present matters of disturbance ; though they are manifest
and unquestionable, and always firmly held and declared by the
whole priesthood according to the doctrine of your apostolic
chair. For we cannot suffer that anything which relates to
the state of the church, however manifest and unquestionable,
should be moved without the knowledge of your holiness, who
are the Head of all the Holy Churches,! for in all
things, as we have already declared, we are anxious to increase
the honor and authority of your apostolic chair."
The letter then proceeds to relate the matter in question,
the heresy of the monks, and the mission of the bishops, and
desires to have a rescript from Rome to Epiphanius, arch-
*'*Ideoque omnes sacerdotes universi orientalis tractus et
subjicere et unire vestrae sanctitati properavimus."
t " Vestrse sanctitati quse caput est omnium sanctarum
ecclesiarum."
TIME, TIMES, AND A HALF, &C. 87
bishop of Constantinople, giving the papal sanction to the
judgment already pronounced by the Emperor on the heresy.
It further mentions that the archbishop had also written to the
pope, " he being also desirous in all things to follow the
apostolic authority of his blessedness."
The Emperor's letter must have been sent before the 25th
March, 533. For, in his letter of that date to Epiphanius, he
speaks of its having been already despatched, and repeats his
decision, that all affairs touching the church shall be referred
to the Pope, " Head of all bishops, and the true and effective
corrector of heretics." *
In the same month of the following year, 534, the Pope
returned an answer repeating the language of the Emperor,
applauding his homage to the See, and adopting the titles of
the imperial mandate. He observes that among the virtues of
Justinian, " one shines as a star, his reverence for the
apostolic chair, to which he has subjected and united all the
churches, it being truly the head of all;f as was testified by
the rules of the fathers, the laws of princes, and the declara-
tions of the Emperor's piety."
The authenticity of the title receives unanswerable proof
from the edicts in the " Novelise M of the Justinian code.
The preamble of the 9th states that " as the elder Rome was
the founder of the laws ; so was it not to be questioned that in
her was the supremacy of the Pontificate."
The 131st, on the ecclesiastical titles and privileges, chapter
2, states :
" We therefore decree that the most holy Pope of the
elder Rome is the first of all the priesthood, and that the most
blessed archbishop of Constantinople, the new Rome, shall
hold the second rank after the holy apostolic chair of the elder
Rome."*
The supremacy of the Pope had, by those mandates and
edicts, received the fullest sanction that could be given by the
authority of the master of the Roman world. But the yoke sat
uneasily on the Bishop of Constantinople; and on the death
*"Vel eo maxime, quod quoties in his locis haeretici
pullularuntt} et sententia et recto judido illius venerabilis sedis
oorrecti sunt."
f
M Et ei cuncta subjicitis, et ad ejus deducitis unitatem, quam
esse omnium vere ecclesiarum caput, et patrum regular, &c."
X " The 13lst Novellas contains the following chapters. In
the 1st, 'tis ordained that the four first Councils shall be
received. In the 2d, the first place is given to the Pope of Rome,
and the second to the Patriarch of Constantinople."—Du Pin,
Hist, of Ecclesiastical Writers, vol. 1, p. 549.
88 TIME, TIMES, AND A HALF, &C.
of Justinian the supremacy was utterly denied. The Greek,
who wore the mitre in the imperial city of the east, must have
looked with national contempt on a pontiff whose city had lost
the honors of the imperial residence, and whose person was in
the power of the barbarians. Towards the close of the sixth
century, John, of Constantinople, surnamed for his pious
austerities the Faster, summoned a council and resumed the
ancient title of the See, " Universal Bishop." The Roman
bishop, Gregory the Great, indignant at the usurpation, and
either hurried away by the violence of controversy, or, in that
day of monstrous ignorance, unacquainted with his own
distinctions, furiously denounced John, calling him an " usur-
per aiming at supremacy over the whole church," and declaring,
with unconscious truth, that whoever claimed such supremacy
was anti-Christ. The accession of Phocas at length decided
the question. He had ascended the throne of the east by the
murder of the Emperor Mauritius. The insecurity of his title
rendered him anxious to obtain the sanction of the patriarch of
the west. The conditions were easily settled. The usurper
received the benediction of the Bishop of Rome, and the
Bjshop in 606 vindicated from his rival patriarch the gorgeous
title, that had been almost a century before conferred on the
papal tiara by Justinian. He was thenceforth " Head of all
the churches," without a competitor, «« Universal Bishop" of
Christendom. * That Phocas repressed the claim of the
Bishop of Constantinople, is beyond a doubt. But the highest
authorities among the civilians and annalists of Rome spurn the
idea that Phocas was the founder of the supremacy of Rome
;
they ascend to Justinian as the only legitimate source, and
rightly date the title from the memorable year 533. f
And referring again to these transactions, pages 8
and 9, he says :
" On reference to Baronius, the established authority among
the Roman Catholic annalists, I found the whole detail of
Justinian's grants of supremacy to the Pope, formally given.
—
The entire transaction was of the most authentic and regular
kind, and suitable to the importance of the transfer. The
grant of Phocas was found to be a confused and imperfect
transaction, scarcely noticed by the early writers, and, even in
its fullest sense, amounting to nothing beyond a confirmation
* " Anastatius Historia Ecc. Paulus diaconus de gestis
Longobardorum."
t Gothofredus Corpus Jur. Civ. &c.
TIME, TIMES, AND A HALF, &C. 89
of the grant of Justinian. The chief cause of its frequent
adoption by the commentators, seemed to be its convenient
coincidence with the rise of Mahometanism."*
But these provisions of the Justinian code could not
go into effect in favor of the Bishop of Rome at the
time they were issued, because Rome and Italy were
then in possession of the Ostrogoths,—who, being
strongly attached to the Arian faith, were as violently
opposed to the religion of Justinian, as they were
envious of his imperial wealth and power. It was not
till the conquest of Rome, in March, 538, that the
Catholic bishop could exercise the power with which
he had been clothed by the Emperor. The Vandal
war, which commenced in 533, and the Italian war,
the result of which was the conquest of Rome in 538,
were prompted by the same spirit, as they were a part
of the same object, which gave existence to the eccle-
siastical provisions of the code ; for proof we refer to
Gibbon, the most minute historian, in our language, of
the events of those times. He tells us that Justinian,
even during the reign of his uncle Justin, " assumed
the powers of government," and " already meditated
the extirpation of heresy, and the conquest of Italy and
Africa, (ch. 39 ;) and that on receiving the news of
the success of Belisarius against the Vandals in Africa,
after he had " celebrated the Divine goodness and con-
fessed in silence the merit of his successful general,
impatient to abolish the temporal and spiritual tyranny
of the Vandals, proceeded without delay to the full
establishment of the Catholic church."—Decline and
Fall, vol. 7, page 150.
And again, in speaking of the conquest of Italy, he
says: "When Justinian first meditated the conquest
of Italy, he sent ambassadors to the kings of the
Franks, and adjured them, by the common ties of
alliance and religion, to join in the holy enterprise
against the Arian s." "
* Baronii annal. cen. 6.
8*
90 TIME, TIMES, AND A HALF, &C.
This war commenced in 534. On the approach of
Belisarius, several cities forsook their Gothic and
heretical sovereign, who retired before the armies of
the Catholic Emperor, and, after deciding in council
to delay the " offensive operations of war till the next
spring, " allowed Belisarius without opposition to
enter Rome. While he was on his way to the city, the
" Romans furiously exclaimed, that the apostolic
throne should be no longer profaned by the triumph or
toleration of Arianism. ,
' " The deputies of the Pope
and clergy, of the senate and people, invited the
lieutenant of Justinian to accept their voluntary allegi-
ance, and to enter the city, whose gates would be
thrown open for their reception."
" Belisarius entered Rome December 10th, 536.
The first days, which coincided with the old saturnalia,
were devoted to mutual congratulation and public joy,
and the Catholics prepared to celebrate, without a rival,
the approaching festival of the nativity of Christ."
" But the senate, the clergy, and the unwarlike people
trembled, as soon as they understood that he had
resolved, and would speedily be reduced, to sustain a
siege against the powers of the Gothic monarchy."
"The Goths commenced the siege in March, 537."
In the extremities of the siege, Belisarius apprehended
the most fatal results from the " despair and treachery"
of the citizens. " On the proof or suspicion of treason,
several senators were banished, and the Pope, Sylve-
rius, was despoiled of his pontifical ornaments, and
embarked for a distant exile in the east. At the
Emperor's command, the clergy of Rome proceeded
to the choice of a new bishop, and, after a solemn
invocation of the Holy Ghost, elected the deacon
Vigilius, who had purchased the papal throne by a
bribe of two hundred pounds of gold."
"The whole nation of the Ostrogoths had been
assembled for the attack, an(} was almost entirely
consumed in the siege of Rome. If any credit be due
to an intelligent spectator, one third at least of their
enormous host was destroyed in frequent and bloody
TIME, TIMES, AND A HALF, &C. 91
combats under the walls of the city." Vitijes, king
of the Goths, being informed that another detachment
of the Roman army, Under "John the Sanguinary,"
was spreading devastation through other portions of
his kingdom, " before he retired made a last effort
either to storm or to surprise the city." This effort
was fruitless, and in the month of March, 538, the
Goths ended the siege, and retired from the city.
" One year and nine days after the commencement
of the siege, an army, so lately strong and triumphant,
burnt their tents and tumultuously passed the Milvian
bridge."*
An extract from a work written by Edward King,
Esq., F. R. S. A. S.,^nd published in London in
1798, we believe gives the true idea of the prophecy,
as to the commencement and termination of this
prophetic period. The author cannot of course be
suspected of any partiality to " Millerism."
" Is not the Papal power, at Rome, which was once so
terrible, and so domineering, at an end!
" But let us pause a little. Was not the end, in another
part of the Holy Prophecies, foretold to be at the END of
1260 years? and was it not foretold by Daniel to be at the
END of a time, times, and half a time? which computation
amounts to the same period.
"And now let us see; hear; and understand. THIS IS
THE YEAR 1798.—And just 1260 years ago, in the very
beginning of the year 538, Belisarius put an end to the empire
and dominion of the Goths, at Rome.
" He had entered the city on the 10th of the preceding
December, in triumph, in the name of Justinian, Emperor of
the East, and had soon after made it tributary to him; leaving
thenceforward, from A. D. 53S, no Power in Rome, that
could be said to rule over the earth—excepting the ECCLE-
SIASTICAL PONTIFICAL POWER."
" It is true, that, after this entry of Belisarius, Rome was
twice re-taken by Totila and the Goths. But instead of
setting up any empire there, he, the first time, carried away
all the Senate, and drove out all the inhabitants; and, the
• * Decline and Fall, chap. 41, Vol. 7, pp. 173—210,
Howel, Inst, of Gen. His., Vol. 3, pp: 81—88.
92 TIME, TIMES, AND A HALF, &C.
second time, he was himself soon defeated and killed, and
Rome was recovered for Justinian by Narses. ^
"Still, however, no dominion, * no power ruling
OVER THE WORLD, EVER HAD ANY SEAT THERE, ANY
more, except the Papal.' For the Duke of Rome,
appointed by Longinus, in 56S, was no more than a sub-
ordinate civil officer; and even under the Exarch. Whilst
the Exarch of Ravenna (at the same time that he was, in
reality, no residing power at Rome) was, at most, himself
only a subordinate officer under the Emperor of the East. And
the dominion and power of the Emperor of the East was quite
different and distinct from what could at all properly be called
the Roman Power. For nothing could, by any means, fairly
come under such a description, but either the dominion of the
Western Emperor, or the dominion of the kings of tire Goths,
or the Papal dominion.
"We have reason to apprehend, then, that the 1260 years
are now completed, and that we may venture to date the com-
mencement of that period, not, as most commentators have
hitherto done, either from Pepin's giving the Pope Ravenna,
or from Charlemagne's determining and adjudging the
Pope to be God's Vicar on earth, but from the end of the
Gothic power at Rome. Because both those other circum-
stances were only (like subsequent gifts, or acquisitions of
territory and revenue) mere augmentations of splendor, and
confirmations of that state of Ecclesiastical Supremacy, IN
which the Papal Power had been left at Rome
by belisarius, on his driving out the goths and
ruining their kingdom."
On the Fall of Popery we refer again to Mr. Croly,
p. 100. He says
—
" On the 10th of February, 1798, the French army, under
Berthier, entered Rome, took possession of the city, and
made the Pope and the cardinals prisoners. Within a week
Pius VI. was deposed; Rome was declared a Republic; the
tree of liberty was planted ; and the city and the states were
delivered up to a long series of the deepest insults, requisitions,
military murders, and the general injury and degradation of the
feelings and property of all classes of the people. Pius VI.
died in captivity. Pius VII. was dragged across the Alps to
crown Napoleon, was held in duress, and was finally restored
only on the fall of the French Empire. The papal indepen-
dence was abolished by France, and the son of Napoleon was
declared King of Rome." See also Their's French Revolu-
tion, Vol. 4, p. 246, and Allison's History of Europe.
TIME, TIMES, AND A HALF, &C. 93
To these extended, but important extracts, but one
remark needs to be added. The efforts which resulted
in the actual supremacy of the See of Rome by placing
the haughty Vigilius in full possession, in 538, were
commenced as early as 533 : so, in its fall, the first
shock of the earthquake which prostrated the Papal
throne to the dust in 1798, was given in 1793, when
the Republic of France " declared that death was an
eternal sleep ; that Christianity was an imposture ; and
that there was no God !
" (Croly, p. 61.)
The 1260 years must begin somewhere within the
period of these transactions,—the writing of the letter
of Justinian to the Pope, the issuing of the " Novellae,"
and the conquest of the gjty of Rome. So their end
must be dated within the period of the corresponding
transactions, the laws of the republic which abolished
Popery in France, and the captivity of the Pope in his
ancient capital by the republican armies. Mr. Miller
adopts the date in both cases when the events were
completed.
CLOSING REMARKS ON THE PROPHETIC
PERIODS.
These several prophetic periods, applied as above,
are considered the main pillars of Mr. Miller's theory
of the prophecies. There is one grand consideration
in favor of it, yet to be noticed, which distinguishes
his from all other theories. It is this. He applies
these periods to those events in the history of the
people of God, which, of all others, one would sup-
pose, should be made the landmarks, or eras, from
which to reckon ; and between the prophecies and
the events of history, down to the present time, ac-
cording to this theory, the agreement is like that
between face andface in a glass. Indeed, the remark-
able naturalness and propriety of the application might
at first be considered an objection. On this account
more than any other, probably, the question has been
so often proposed,
—
"Why was it not found out be-
94 CLOSING REMARKS ON THE PROPHETIC PERIODS.
fore?" And the question would be a puzzling one,
if we did not know, as a matter of fact, that one of
the universal features of the arrangements of Infinite
Wisdom is simplicity ; and, on the other hand, it is as
universally true that the pride and blindness of man's
heart has presented the greatest difficulty in the way
of his discovering what is true, or has disposed him
to reject the truth when it is presented. Its common
fate has been, like that of its great Author, to be
regarded as a root out of dry ground. But he who
is willing to forsake all for the truth, and with a single
eye to lay hold of it, shall see and exclaim, " The one
half has never been told me." In this case, also, there
is a special provision that the discovery should not be
made " till the time of the end." The first grand
period, which includes all the rest, and expresses the
whole time of the usurpation and triumph of the
different forms of worldly power, together with the
depression of the visible kingdom of God, begins
where every one would suppose it must begin, at the
passing away of independence from the Theocracy
—
an event predicted centuries before it took place, and
deplored as the opening of the full tide of all their
troubles for centuries after. It terminates with the
overthrow of all worldly power, and the restoration of
the visible kingdom of God on earth, with Him upon
its throne whose right it is to reign, to order and to
establish it with judgment and with justice henceforth,
even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will
perform this.
The second of these periods begins at a most im-
portant point in the history of the depressed covenant
people of God—the issuing of an edict in their favor,
under the provisions of which they experienced a
partial, though temporary, deliverance, from a condi-
tion which threatened their political existence long
before it actually took place. But though this period
commences some time after the first, they terminate
together.
The third begins at that point where the final change
.FIXING THE DAY. 95
in the visible agents of the long-continued subjection
of the people of God took place, so distinctly pointed
at by Daniel, but more clearly brought to view by the
revelator, and so well understood by Paul, though
future in his day. These last-named periods, that
given for the desolation of the sanctuary,—the 2300
years,—and the period at the end of which Daniel
shall stand in his lot,—the 1335 years,—terminate
together, as is evident both from the nature of the
prophecy in each case, and from the only possible
dates for their commencement. One began B. C. 457,
and the 70 weeks are at once the seal of its truth and
the pledge of its fulfilment in 1843. The other be-
gan, not when the first bjow was struck against the
worship of Paganism by the Christian emperors, as
they are called, but when Popery stood in the place
and acted the part of Paganism in western Rome.
All the histories of the transition point to about A. D.
508, as the time when it took place. The 1290 days,
or years, which terminated in 1798, by taking away
the dominion of Popery, and modifying its character,
are the pledge of its termination and fulfilment in
1843.
FIXING THE DAY.
It may be expected, perhaps, that something will
be said in this manual upon the days which have been
named by some for the coming of the Lord. The
opinion of the writer on that point is the same as it
has always been, since he embraced the doctrine.
He has never seen the propriety of directing attention
to any particular day or month with the least degree
of positiveness. The only ground for so doing, which
has ever been claimed, is the fact that some of the
intermediate periods,—the 70 weeks and the 1290
years, in particular,—which have already been ful-
filled, are known to have run out, one on the 3d of
96 FIXING THE DAY,
April, in the year of our Lord 33, the other Feb. 15,
1798 ; therefore it has been supposed that the grand
periods would run out on the anniversary of the fulfil-
ment of the intermediate ones. But, surely, no
plausible argument could be drawn from this fact,
because we know nothing, within the year, of the
commencement of the grand periods; and if we did,
it would be difficult to tell the day on which the anni-
versary of their commencement would now occur.
The case has appeared to be like this. Some per-
son, we will suppose, gave his note in 1823, without
inserting month or day, for 500 dollars, 100 of which
should be paid in ten years, 1833, and the balance in
twenty years, 1843, and he saw fit to call and make
the first payment on the 3d of April, 1833. Now
there might, from that circumstance, be some plausi-
bility in expecting the payment of the balance on the
3d of April, 1843; but still there is nothing in the
terms of the note to warrant such an expectation. It
may be redeemed any time in 1843. The promise,
in its different forms, runs thus:
—
"At the time ap-
pointed the end shall be." " When he shall have accom-
plished to scatter the power of the holy people, all these
things shall be finished. " '
' Thou shalt stand in thy
lot at the end of the days."
But nothing can be determined from the periods
with which these promises stand connected, within the
year, for these reasons : 1. We know nothing of the
commencement of the seven times, or 2520 years, nor
of the 1335 days, or years, only of the year in which
the events took place from which they are dated ; and
in the case of the 2300 years, it would be presumptu-
ous to attempt to fix even upon the month in which
the decree, from which the period should be com-
menced, was issued, though the 1st, 5th," and other
months are spoken of in the history of proceeding
under the provisions of that decree. But we have no
positive guide to its date nearer than " the seventh.year
of Artaxerxes the king;" and this, in all probability,
means the 7th year from the commencement of his
FIXING THE DAY. 97
reign, which might not have been either at the vernal
equinox, the beginning of the Jewish sacred and
Persian year, nor at the autumnal equinox, the begin-
ning of the Jewish civil year. I do not know that
any historian gives any intimation of the time of the
year when his reign began.
But, by the different modes of reckoning time, we
are brought to a different termination ; for the termi-
nation must correspond, as to the time of the year,
with the reckoning adopted in the commencement.
We will try to present the idea by a diagram ;
—
A Reckoning from A. D. A
C Supposed year of the king. C
D Jewish sacred and Persian year. D
E Jewish civil year. E
. C. 458. 1
B 2300 complete years. ! B
A. 1). '
l^i4.
The lines A A and B B represent the whole period
of 2300 complete years. 2300 complete years must
include 457 full years before Christ, and 1843 full
years after Christ; the whole period must therefore
extend Irom the beginning of 457, B. C, to the end
of 1843, A. D.,—the whole time between the last mo-
ment of 458, B. C, and the first moment of 1844,
A. D. ; so that we cannot have 2300 full years during
1843, without supposing the seventh of Artaxerxes
to have begun before, or with, 457, and that the de-
cree was issued early in that year ; the later the
period began in 457, the farther the end of it is pushed
into 1844.
457 full years from the common date of the birth
of Christ, would take us back to Tebeth, the 10th
month of the Jewish sacred year, and the 4th month
of the Jewish civil year, answering to a part of our
December and January. 1843 full years, from the
same point, would carry us down to December of 1843.
9
98 FIXING THE DAY.
The seventh of Artaxerxes Longimanus might run
parallel with, and cover the whole of, the year 457
B. C. ; it might begin before that year and run half
through it, or some time during that year and run into
the following year. Of that we know nothing, and
of course we cannot tell in what part of the year 457
the decree was issued.
So, also, the months of the book of Ezra being
Jewish months, we can get no clue to the date of the
decree from them, because we know not whether the
year referred to is reckoned from the coronation of the
king, from the vernal equinox, according to the Jew-
ish sacred and Persian year, or according to the Jew-
ish civil year ; unless it be obtained by comparing the
book of Esther with that of Ezra.
In the account of the marriage of Esther, we are
told that, in connection with the feast on the occasion,
the king "
#
made a release unto the provinces, and gave
gifts according to the state of the king." Esther ii.
18.* Her marriage was in the 10th month,, in the
seventh year of the king, (ii. 16,) answering to our
Dec. and Jan. See Home, vol. iii. p. 166. We will
suppose the seventh of his reign began vnih or soon
after the year 457 began ; that he was married on the
anniversary of his coronation ; that the decree was
issued at the time of his marriage, through the influ-
ence of the queen, as on another occasion, Neh. ii. 6 ;
that, two months after the marriage of Esther, Ezra
started to go up from Babylon, (Ez. vii. 9; viii. 21,
31, 32 ;) and that he arrived at Jerusalem four months
after he set out, (vii. 9,) and all in the seventh year
of the king.
C C, therefore, may represent the 2300 complete
years, beginning with the seventh of Artaxerxes, early
in 457 B. C.
D D represents the same period, commencing with
* The reason for supposing Artaxerxes Longimanus to have
been the husband of Esther, may be found at length in Pri-
deaux' Connexions. See also Drl Clarke's Commentary, Pref.
to Esther.
FIXING THE DAY. 99
the Jewish sacred and Persian year, in the March
following.
E E, the same period, commencing in the Jewish
civil year, in September.
Now, all the uncertainty which surrounds the com-
mencement of the period, surrounds the termination;
one must correspond with the other.
2. We are not only unable to fix upon the com-
mencement of the grand periods, nearer than the
year, but we do not know that God will confine him-
self to the exact day of their termination ; anywhere
within the year of the exact point at which the period
began, would certainly be in harmony with the fulfil-
ment of periods in analogous cases, and may safe-
ly and properly be considered as all that we have
reason to expect. The three days predicted to be the
time that the Savior should be in the earth, were not
fulfilled in three full days ; but he arose on the third
day—that is, he was crucified on Friday, and arose on
Sabteith morning. It may also be considered very
clear, that the " week," or seven years, during which
he was to "confirm the covenant with many," was
not fulfilled in seven full years. He commenced his
ministry when he " began to be about thirty years of
age," and was " cut off," as is generally supposed,
before the seven years had fully expired—"in the
midst," or last half, " of the week." So in the 1260
years of Papal triumph : it commenced in March,
538, by the success of the Papal armies, according to
the uniform testimony of the most careful historians,
and terminated in February, 1798. The fulfilment
was surprisingly exact, but not to a day. All our
speculations, therefore, which attempt to determine
the time of events, within the year, may be considered
of questionable propriety, and doubtful utility.
There are texts which suggest the supposition that
there may be an early fulfilment of those prophecies
which bring the great day to view ; there are others,
which intimate that it may seem to tarry. I need not
refer to those texts.
HAS MR. MILLER "CHANGED HIS GROUND ?
»
In this work, devoted to the explanation and defence
of the chronological questions of the Second Advent
doctrine, it may not be improper to say a word upon
the complaints against Mr. Miller of " shifting his
ground," "putting off the event," &c, which have
been rather severely and clamorously made, since his
letter (which was written to correct the false reports
about his fixing the day, &c.) was given to the public.
Not that his position needs to be vindicated by me ;
he is well able to do that. Nor is it to satisfy those
who are acquainted with his works ; they know very
well that these complaints come only from those who
have never looked at the subject, or, if they have,
seem to be doomed to an incapability of speaking the
truth in reference to it, unless the admission of the #
truth on some one point may give greater effect to a
falsehood against the subject in general. •
I wish to show that the true and enlightened view
of the point in question, such as Mr. Miller has al-
ways expressed, is in accordance with the views of
other writers, of unquestioned ability and integrity.
The title-page of every edition of his works reads
—
" Evidence from Scripture and History of the Second
Coming of Christ, about the Year 1843 ; exhibited
in a Course of Lectures. By William Miller."
The portion of his letter, referred to above, which
bears upon the point, we also insert :
—
" My principles, in brief, are, that Jesus Christ will come
again to this earth, cleanse, purify, and take possession of the
same, with all his saints, some time between March 21, 1843,
and March 21, 1844. J have never, for the space of more than
twenty-three years, had any other time preached or published by
me ; I have never fixed on any month, day, or hour between
that time; 1 have never found any mistake in reckoning, sum-
ming up, or miscalculation; I have made no provision for any
other time ; I am perfectly satisfied that the Bible is true,
and is the word of God, and I am confident I rely wholly on
HAS MR. MILLER "CHANGED HIS GROUND?" 101
that blessed book for my faith in this matter. I am not a
prophet; I am not sent to prophesy, but to read, believe, and
publish, what God has inspired the ancieut prophets to admin-
ister unto us, in the prophecies of the Old and New Testa-
ments. These have been, and now are, my principles, and
I hope I shall never be ashamed of them.
Yours, respectfully,
Philadelphia, Feb. 4.
Wm-
M"- leb-
Those who have listened to his lectures know very
well, that the sentiments advanced by him from the
pulpit have been in accordance with those of the
letter and title-page.
Now, supposing the greatest possible precision in
the ' historical dates, (and Mr. Miller does not fix the
dates of the events on which his calculations are
based, but adopts those which are commonly received,)
there will not have been 1843 complete years, from
the common era of the birth of Christ, till the 1844th
year begins ;
just as, in our own case, a man is not
20 ygars of age, complete, until he enters upon his
21st year.
Far be it from the writer to open the door for a
supposition that the Savior may not come at any mo-
ment, or to protract, unnecessarily, the interest which
ought to be excited by the obvious import of the
prophetic periods. He does not wish to be misled,
noi does he wish to mislead others ; he only wishes
to know and express the truth. If he can do it, the
truth shall be stated plainly and without equivocation ;
and, although he has usually regarded these minute
points as comparatively of little consequence, he was
not aware that a question, like the one involved in the
particular point now under consideration, had been
publicly discussed, and settled so as to harmonize with
Mr. Miller's position, until his eye was directed to the
following passage in a favorite author, whom the
writer has considered the most profound and exact
theologian of the present age, Richard Watson :
—
u There is not a more prolific source of confusion and em-
barrassment in ancient chronologv> than the substitution of the
9*
102 HAS MR. MILLER " CHANGED HIS GROUND V
cardinal numbers, one, two, three, for the ordinals, first, sec-
ond, third, &C*, which frequently occurs in the sacred and
profane historians. Thus, Noah was six hundred years old
when the deluge began, Gen. vii. 6; and, presently after, in
his six hundredth year : confounding complete and current
years. And the dispute whether A. D. 1800, or A. D. 1801,
was the first of the nineteenth century, should be decided in
favor of the latter ; the former being in reality the last of the
eighteenth century^ which is usually, but improperly, called the
year one thousand eight hundred, complete ; whereas it is
really the one thousand eight hundredth." *
If the 1800th year did not terminate till 1801 began,
then the 1843d year will not terminate till 1844 begins ;
and if the years of the long period began at the
vernal equinox, about March 21, 457 B. C, 2300
complete years will not have passed till the same
point 1844.
To our brethren and sisters I would say, " Be pa-
tient ! " To our enemies, Improve the time
!
* Theological Dictionary, Art. Year ; to which the reader
is directed, in addition to the works on chronology referred to
on page 20,
Direction. We here give, for the assistance of those
into whose hands this manual may fall, who are not acquainted
with our publications, a partial list of works which treat of
some of the most important topics connected with the subject.
For a full exhibition of the subject,—Miller's Works, 3
vols.; Exposition of the Prophecies, by J. Litch, 2 vols.
For a compendious view of it,—Midnight Cry, by L. Flem-
ing; Reasons, by C. Fitch; Litch's Address; Synopsis of
Miller's Views.
On the question of the Jews' return,—Israel and the Holy
Land, by H. D. Ward ; Judaism overthrown, by J. Litch ;
Return of the Jews, by G. Storrs.
On the Millennium,—History and Doctrine of the True
Millennium, by H. D. Ward; Spaulding's Lectures.
The two Resurrections,—a tract by Br. Litch; Spaulding'g
Lectures.
The Battle of Gog and Magog,—Spaulding's Lectures.
Those who may wish for an able vindication of the Second
Advent doctrine, will find it in a sermon preached at the dedi-
cation of the Tabernacle at Boston, by Br. S. Hawley.
MILLER'S RULES OF BIBLE INTERPRETATION.
In studying the Bible, I have found the following rules to be
of great service to myself, and now give them to the public
by special request. Every rule should be well studied, in
connection with the Scripture references, if the Bible stu-
dent would be at all benefitted by them.
RULES. PROOFS.
I. All Scripture is necessary,
and may be understood by dili-
gent application and study. 2 Tim. iii. 15, 16, 17.
II. Every word must have its
proper bearing on the subject
presented in the Bible. Matt. v. 18.
III. Scripture must be its own
expositor, since it is a rule of it-
self. If I depend on a teacher
to expound it to me, and he
should guess at its meaning, or
desire to have it so on account
of his sectarian creed, or to be
thought wise, then his guessing,
desire, creed, or wisdom, is my
rule, not the Bible.
Ps. xix. 7—11 ; cxix.
97—105. Matt, xxiii.
8—10. 1 Cor. ii. 12—16.
Eze. xxxiv. 18, 19. Luke
xi. 52. Mai. ii. 7, 8.
IV. To understand doctrine,
bring all the Scriptures together
on the subject you wish to know ;
then let every word have its prop-
er influence, and if you can form
your theory without a contradic-
tion, you cannot be in an error.
Isa. xxviii. 7 —29 ;
xxxv. 8. Prov. xix. 27.
Luke xxiv. 27, 44, 45.
Rom. xvi. 26. James v.
19. 2 Pet. i. 19, 20.
V. God has revealed things
to come, by visions, in figures
and parables; and in this way
104 miller's rules of bible interpretation.
RULES. PROOFS.
the same things are oftentimes
revealed again and again, by dif-
ferent visions, or in different fig-
ures and parables. If you wish
to understand them, you must
combine them all in one.
Pa. lxxxix. 19. Hos.
xii. 10. Hab. ii. 2. Acts
ii. 17. 1 Cor. x. 6. Heb.
ix. 9, 24. Ps. lxxviii. 2.
Matt. xiii. 13, 34. Gen.
xli. 1—32. Dan. ii., vii.,
and viii. Acts x. 9—16.
VI. Visions are always men-
tioned as such. 2 Cor. xii.
VII. How to know when a
word is used figuratively. If it
makes good sense as it stands,
and does no violence to the sim-
ple laws of nature, then it must
be understood literally ; if not,
figuratively.
Rev. xii. 1, 2; xvii.
3—7.
VIII. Figures always have a
figurative meaning, and are used
much in prophecy to represent
future things, times, and events ;
such as mountains, meaning gov-
ernments; beasts, meaning king- Dan. ii. 35, 44; vii. 8,
doms. 17.
Waters, meaning people. Rev. xvii. 1, 15.
Lamp, meaning Word of God. Ps. cxix. 105.
Day, meaning year. Ezek. iv. 6.
IX. To learn the true mean-
ing of figures, trace your figura-
tive word through your Bible,
and, where you find it explained,
put it on your figure, and if it
makes good sense, you need look
no further ; if not, look again.
X. Figures sometimes have
two or more different significa-
tions ; as day is used in a figura-
miller's rules of bible interpretation. 105
RULES. PROOFS.
tive sense to represent three dif-
ferent periods of time.
1. Indefinite.
2. Definite, a day for a year.
3. Day for a thousand years.
Eccles. vii. 14.
Ezek. iv. 6.
2 Pet. iii. 8.
XI. Parables are used as com-
parisons to illustrate subjects,
and must be explained in the
same way as figures, by the sub-
ject and Bible. Mark iv. 13.
XII. To know whether we
have the true historical event for
the fulfilment of a prophecy. If
you find every word of the
prophecy (after the figures are
understood) is literally fulfilled,
then you may know that your
history is the true event. But
if one word lacks a fulfilment,
then you must look for another
event, or wait its future develop-
ment. For God takes care that
history and prophecy doth agree,
so that the true, believing chil-
dren of God may never be
ashamed.
Ps. xxi. 5. Isa. xlv.
17—19. 1 Pet. ii. 6.
Rev. xvii. 17. Acts iii.
18.
XIII. The most important rule of all is, that you
must have faith. It must be a faith that requires a
sacrifice, and, if tried, would give up the dearest
object on earth, the world and all its desires, charac-
ter, living, occupation, friends, home, comforts, and
worldly honors. If any of these should hinder our
believing any part of God's word, it would show our
faith to be vain. Nor can we ever believe, so long
as one of these motives lies lurking in our hearts.
We must believe that God will never forfeit his word.
And we can have confidence that He that takes notice
106
of the sparrow, and numbers the hairs of our head,
will guard the translation of his own word, and throw
a barrier around it, and prevent those who sincerely
trust in God, and put implicit confidence in his word,
from erring far from the truth, though they may not
understand Hebrew or Greek.
These are some of the most important rules which
I find the word of God warrants me to adopt and
follow, in order for system and regularity. And if I
am not greatly deceived, in so doing, I have found
the Bible, as a whole, one of the most simple, plain,
and intelligible books ever written, containing proof
in itself of its Divine origin, and full of all knowledge
that our hearts could wish to know or enjoy. I have
found it a treasure which the world cannot purchase.
It gives a calm peace in believing, and a firm hope in
the future. It sustains the mind in adversity, and
teaches us to be humble in prosperity. It prepares
us to love and do good to others, and to realize the
value of the soul. It makes us bold and valiant for
the truth, and nerves the arm to oppose error. It
gives us a powerful weapon to break down infidelity,
and makes known the only antidote for sin. It in-
structs us how death will be conquered, and how the
bonds of the tomb must be broken. It tells us of
future events, and shows the preparation necessary to
meet them. It gives us an opportunity to hold con-
versation with the King of kings, and reveals the
best code of laws ever enacted.
This is but a faint view of its value ;
yet how
many perishing souls treat it with neglect, or, what
is equally as bad, treat it as a hidden mystery which
cannot be known ! Oh, my dear reader, make it your
chief study. Try it well, and yon wr
ill find it to be
all I have said. Yes, like the Queen of Sheba, you
will say the half was not told you.
INDEX
Abomination, meaning of the word,
Age of Christ, (see diagram, note D.,)
Christ confirmed the covenant by his ministry seven
years, (diagram, note D.,) ....
Chronology of the world, (see diagram,) .
M of the period from Adam to Christ,
" of the period of the judges,
Chronological order of the prophets,
Clarke, Dr., testimony on Usher's chronology of the
judges,
Clovis, history of, ......
" Cut off," the proper meaning of the word trans-
lated determined, Dan. ix. 24,
Daily (sacrifice) , what, .....
Date of the death of Christ, ....
" of the birth of Christ, different views of it
considered, ....
" of the captivity of Manasseh,
" of the decree from which the seventy weeks
and 2300 years begin,
" of the final change of Paganism for Popery in
western Rome, .....
** of the decree of Justinian, ....
H of the conquest of Rome by Belisarius,
" of the captivity of the Pope by the French, .
Day, fixing the, ......
Day for a year, when so understood,
Days, 2300, to be understood as years,
Dovvling, Rev. Mr., testimony of, ...
End, the, is it hid from us 1
End of the present order of things in 6000 years,
traditional,
England, change in religion about 508, (note,)
Evening-morning, the Hebrew expression of a natu-
ral day, ........
Faber, extract from, on the Jewish year, .
Hales, Dr., testimony of, on the period of the judges
" Infidels " to be made by our calculations, why,
Indignation, the, what, .....
Page.
. 63
25,26
25,26
13—16
15
15
32
15
72—74
55
63—70
26
25—27
37—41
. 59
72—81
85—89
91—93
92,93
95
17,18
42—45
17,18
27,28
13,14
74,75
43
23,24
15
11,12
47
108 INDEX.
Macknight's rule, 43
Mr. Miller, has he changed his ground 1 100
" unfairly compared with u religious theo-
rists," 29,30
Mr. Miller's experience, sketch of, .... 65
M mode of studying the Bible, ... 66
" Rules, 103-^106
" Miller's Rule," alleged " absurdity " of it con-
sidered, 16—19
Objections to calculating the prophetic times con-
sidered, 5
Pantheon, the, sanctuary of Paganism, ... 68
Paul's view of Paganism and Popery like Daniel's, . 72
Prophecy designed to inform us of the time of events, . 7—10
Prophetic and solar years, 24, 25
" periods, 33
" " closing remarks upon, . . 93—95
" «« not affected by the chronology of
the judges, .... 15, 16
Sanctuary, significations of the word, . . . 45, 46
M the, the land of promise, . . . 46, 51
<c " the place of the great battle, . . 47
M " its cleansing, what, . . . . 51
" " its condition till Christ's second ad-
vent, 48
" M the metropolis of the future and ever-
lasting kingdom, .... 46
Time of the events predicted may be understood, . 10, 28
«* different modes of reckoning, ... 20
" times, and a half, &c, considered, . . 82—93
" " " or 1260 years, begin 538,
and end 1798, . . 89—93
Times, seven, or 2520 years, 33
" " a prophetic period, . . . 33, 34
n " its repetition not designed to express
four periods, .... 34—37
" M begin with the captivity of Manasseh,
B. C. 677, .... 37—41
" " terminate in 1843, . . . . 41,42
Weeks, the seventy, seal the vision, . . . 26, 58, 95
Wise, the, shall understand, . . . . . 62, 63
Year, solar, the standard always referred to, . . 21
" " generally used in chronology, . . 22
" Jewish, regulated necessarily by the seasons, . 22—24
Years, 2300, begin with the seventy weeks, . . 52—58
" 1290 and 1335, considered, .... 59—81
SECOND ADVENT PUBLICATIONS
Scriptures Searched.—By Henry Jones. Th» is truly an
evangelical work, and will be read with profit. Price 62i cts.
Present Crisis.—This is a valuable little work, by Rev. John
Hooper, of England. Second American edition. Price 1/ pef
hundred, 10 cents single.
Miller's HWks.—In one volume. New edition, *1,00.
Tlwughts on the Seemed Coming of Christ.—Just publish-
ed. An Irish work, first published in Dublin, in 1831. It is a
very valuable work.
Hymn Book.—" Millennial Musings : A choice selection of
Hymns, designed for the use of Second Advent Meetings.'*
By J. V. Himes and J. Litch. Price 82,40 per dozen, 20 cents
single; in paper covers, 17 cents.
Miller on " The True Inheritance of the Saints," and the
1260 Days in Daniel and John. With an Address to the Low
Hampton Conference. 20 cents in boards, 12£ cents in pam-
phlets.
Review of Eight Fundamental Errors in Miller's Theory,
Sinted out by Charles K. True and Wm. C. Brown, in Zion's
erald, March, 1840. By J. Litch. Price 83 per hundred,
4 cents single.
Letter to Rev. J. Litch, on the Second Coming of Christ
;
with th*. sentiments of Cotton Mather on th«» same subject,
approved by Thomas Prince ; both eminent ministers of Boston
in the last century. By Charles Fitch, of Haverhill. Price,
in boards, 20 cents, pamphlet I2£ cents.
Spalding's Lectures. —Sentiments concerning the Coming
and Kingdom of Christ, collected from the Bible, and from the
writings of many ancient and some modern believers. In nine
lectures ; with an Appendix. By Joshua Spalding, Minister
of the Gospel at the Tabernacle in Salem. To which is added
a Preface, containing a brief sketch of the recent rise and pro-
gress of the Doctrine of the Advent Near. By J. V. Himes
and J. Litch. Price 62£ cents.
Miller's Exposition.—A Familiar Exposition of the twenty-
fourth chapter of Matthew, and the fifth and sixth chapters of
Hosea. To which are added an Address to the General Con-
ference on the Advent, and a Scene of the Last Day. By Wm.
Miller. To which is added an extract from Dr. Cotton
Mather's Latin Preface., &c., on the Second Coming of Christ.
Edited by Joshua V. Himes. Price 25 cents.
SIGNS OF THE TIMES
Is published on the 1st and 15th of each month, at No. 14
Devonshire St.
Joshua V. Himes, and Josiah Litch, Editors.
Terms.—One Dollar a year, payable in advance. Six copies
for Five Dollars, Thirteen copies for Ten Do! .ars. All com-
munications should ue directed to "J. V. Himes, Boston,
Mass.," post paid.
^
OF ALL THING! It At HAND; Bt YE
is
M
X
h
SECOND ADVENT.
* i
e i
i
o
M The Lord will come ! the earth shall quake,
ft
The hills their fixed seat forsake
as
And, withering, from the vault of night
The stars withdraw their feeble light.
PI
The Lord will come ! but not the same
Q As once in lowly form he came,
o
,4
A silent Lamb to slaughter led,
H
4*
The bruised, the suffering, and the dead.
The Lord will come ! a dreadful form,
ft
O With wreath of flame and robe of storm,
e
On cherub wings and wings of wind,
N;
M
Anointed Judge of human-kind. *\
H
Can this be He who wont to stray
8 A pilgrim on the world's highway, •4
mm By Power oppressed, and mocked by Pride?
W Oh God ! is this the crucified ?
t* t
«
H
M
Go, tyrants ! to the rocks complain
n Go, seek the mountain's cleft in vain
at
w 1
But Faith, victorious o'er the tomb, w
M
M
H
H
m
Shall sing for joy—the Lord is come
A
99
>
H
>
m
o
1
/ •
o n i k h n a siHan h n o a a s v 'hi ah j. h j. i m
J
