{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__perry_carey___zodiac_and_salts_of_salvation.pdf","mytitle":"Zodiac And Salts Of Salvation","mylang":"de"}
? s
I
I
X5ha 2o6iac
atx6 tl)e Salts of Salvation
PART ONE
by : ; .
Dr. George Washington Garey
the relation of the mineral salts- op the: boi?t;
to the signs of the zodiac
(Fourteenth and Memorial Edition) ,
PART TWO
AN ESOTERIC ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF THE
ZODIACAL SIGNS AND THEIR PHYSIO-
CHEMICAL ALLOCATIONS
BY
INEZ EUDORA PERRY
i
First Edition
i
PUBLISHED BY
The
Carey-Perry School of the Chemistry of Life j
Hollywood, Los Angeles, California
N
I
>-
u
IT
<
O
0
{Mi*
Mg>.
as
<!a
Offl N
n Eu
~
*c
j
0
c
B
0
IE
(5
K
o
UJ
o
K
Q
0
I-
u
u
(fl
Q
Z
<
I
o
i
i-
<
o
z
<
K
u
ft
D
I-
U
Ui
o
I
t-
3
<
6
o
° E
< i
3 5
o
< ;
u
Aft
Copyright
BY
INEZ EUDORA PERRY
Hollywood, California, U. S. A.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Including
Translation into Other Languages
Publication in All Foreign Countries
Printed by
J. F. ROWNY PRESS
SANTA BARBARA, CAL.
AND
CONTENTS
Part One
Introduction v
Poem, "The Saint George" of Biochemistry . . . ix
In Memoriam xii
Poem, "The New Name" xix
Biochemistry 21
Esoteric Chemistry 22
The Ultimate of Biochemistry 23
The Twelve Cell-Salts of the Zodiac
Aries, the Lamb of God 25
Taurus, the Winged Bull of the Zodiac .... 27
The Chemistry of Gemini 28
Cancer: the Chemistry of the Crab 29
Leo : the Heart of the Zodiac 31
Virgo : the Virgin Mary 32
Libra : the Loins 34
Influence of the Sun on Vibration of Blood
at Birth : Scorpio 35
The Chemistry of Sagittarius 37
Capricorn : the Goat of the Zodiac 38
The Sign of the Son of Man : Aquarius 41
Pisces: the Fish that Swim in the Pure Sea ... 42
817637
[iii]
Contents (Continued)
Part Two
Introduction 47
I. The Analysis and Synthesis of Aries
and Kali phos 49
II. The Analysis and Synthesis of Taurus
and Natrium sulph 73
III. The Analysis and Synthesis of Gemini
and Kali mur 84
IV. The Analysis and Synthesis of Cancer
and Calcium Fluoride 103
V. The Analysis and Synthesis of Leo
and Magnesium Phosphate 130
VI. The Analysis and Synthesis of Virgo
and Kali sulph 160
VII. The Analysis and Synthesis of Libra
and Natrium phos 187
VIII. The Analysis and Synthesis of Scorpio
and Calcium sulph 213
IX. The Analysis and Synthesis of Sagittarius
and Silicea 238
X. The Analysis and Synthesis of Capricorn
and Calcium phos 260
XI. The Analysis and Synthesis of Aquarius
and Natrium mur 284
XII. The Analysis and Synthesis of Pisces
and Ferrum phos 308
XIII. Cosmic Embryos; the Path of Energy . . . 333
XIV. The Allocation of Color with the Zodiac,
the Zodiacal Spectrum 335
Index 337
Part One
INTRODUCTION TO PART ONE
BY
INEZ EUDORA PERRY
R. GEORGE W. CAREY'S booklet, "The Relation
. I 1 o/ the Mineral Salts of the Body to the Signs of the
^m^J Zodiac" has seen many editions; but it was not until
1906 that I secured my first copy, and, mentally hungry for
truth, eagerly devoured its pages.
Such actual meat and drink it was to me, so fascinatingly
interesting, that I was convinced at once of its immeasurable
value to humanity. That realization became intensified, year
after year, as constant experience and intensive research work
furnished conclusive proof. I believe that the day is not far
distant when Dr. Carey will be acclaimed as one of the world's
greatest benefactors.
In this chaotic and materialistic age he discovered and pub
lished a priceless key, that which unlocks the door to
mental as well as physical health. The understanding and use
of this key will accomplish the physio-chemical process where
by mankind may regenerate. This means the slow but sure
rise from physical and mental degeneracy, disease, unhappi-
ness, and death to that glorious state which is the heritage of
every one perfection. Thus will be consummated the Scrip
tural injunction, "Be ye therefore perfect even as your father
in heaven is perfect." Matt. 5 :48.
The great majority of people will be startled,
if,
indeed,
not actually shocked, by the statement which fifteen years of
earnest research and experience causes me to make. Duty and
a
sincere wish to help humanity are also contributing factors,
but there
is
another and more powerful reason. Our solar
system
is
entering, once again
in
the cycles of the ages, the
sign of Aquarius, the Son of Man, and those who know the
Truth, or any part of
it,
must write, speak, and live it. Aqua
rius
is
the humanitarian, or human sign, and the planet (vibra
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
tion) Uranus is the ruler of this division of the zodiac, which
is the path of the solar system.
Therefore, as this is the Age of Truth, those who work
with and for it are working in harmony with natural law,
while those who follow the opposite course will wonder why
they are not prospering. To prosper means to have sufficient
for one's necessities, to be physically and mentally comfort
able.
It is only truth that matters; opinions do not count. Dr.
Carey was not interested in the latter, he was an iconoclast.
He felt impelled to make scientific statements no matter how
they were received.
My method (and purpose) is the same as his. I aspire to
give out facts as I know and have proved them to be.
Therefore, please consider, carefully and earnestly, the
following statement which should be written in letters of
flame :
A knowledge of, and the practice of, the process necessary
to the attainment of perfection is absolutely', impossible with
out a thorough understanding of physiological chemistry. This
Dr. William Schuessler furnished in his Biochemic System of
Medicine, and the perfect key was supplied by Dr. Carey in
his allocation of the biological salts with the zodiacal signs.
The truth or the foregoing statement is as definite and real
to me as the fact that I live, move and have my being. I wish
graved forever on the minds of those who read it.
Dr. Schuessler's system is the only true system of medicine,
for it is the method of supplying the blood with its component
parts. The Bible most truly states a great chemical fact (Le
viticus 17:11) in the following words: "For the life of the
flesh is in the blood for it is the blood that maketh an atone
ment for the soul."
As the blood is the life of the flesh, it naturally follows that,
as man is a trinity (body, or flesh, soul and spirit), the quality,
condition, or health of his body determines that of his soul,
which corresponds in exact degree.
The word "atonement" means at-one-ment or harmony. If
the blood were chemically perfect, the highly differentiated and
attenuated nerve and glandular fluids, which constitute the
soul, would also be perfect. It is only when the blood is chem
ically perfect that the full quota of Spirit, otherwise God-
power, can enter the body, for "Like attracts like."
it could be made hatic so that it would be en-
[vi]
Introduction to Part One
The study of Schuessler's Biochemistry enables us to become
acquainted with the different kinds of material or basic sub
stances which the Great Chemist and Architect of the Universe
created as a medium for the Spirit, which is Life.
Spirit manifests imperfectly when material is deficient.
Deficiency means dis-ease, lack of ease, inharmony, imper
fection.
Dormant, unhealthy, or imperfect brain cells do not make
for an efficient brain. Thought corresponds to the nature
and condition of the brain cells, for they constitute our
thought machine, and the quality and value of that which it
brings forth depend entirely on its condition.
Herein lies the explanation of all the trouble in the world,
sin, crime, disease, death, unhappiness, insanity, fear, coward
ice, lack of positivity, differences in opinions and the wars of
nations and peoples.
Each one of us represents a consensus or aggregate of
vibrations, a sum total of those present in Nature at the time
we come into birth. Indeed, it is what makes birth possible. A
certain rate of vibration is manifesting at that particular time
and a corresponding result is produced.
"Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." Sow
ing and reaping, reaping and sowing constitute birth and
death. If we were not responsible for the kind of life we
live, we would not then be accountable for the form of death
which we attract.
Is it not, then, equally logical that a reincarnating ego
must, because of the vibratory law of attraction, come to birth
in an environment and into conditions which are decided by
this self-same law? Otherwise justice would not exist. Justice
is conformity to divine law. It is the working out, the ex
pression or administration of law doing the right thing be
cause it is the best.
In Greek mythology, which constitutes the sacred and secret
writings of that people, we find this statement which, it seems
to me, agrees perfectly with the foregoing. "Amphion built
the walls of Thebes (the human head) by charming (produc
ing a harmonious vibration) the stones (mineral elements)
into their places by the music of his lyre." (The lyre is a cer
tain marvelous organ in the head.)
It is a poetical way of stating that the human head, which
is the beginning of the human body, is formed according to a
vibratory law, for by it the very mineral atoms are grouped
[vii]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
together and cells formed. The meaning of Thebes is head.
It was originally a physiological term.
Showing the chemical correspondence of the mineral salt
Kali phos, or phosphate of potassium, to the highest part of
the head, the cerebrum, alone elevates Dr. Carey to the
heights where honor and gratitude should forever be accorded
him. For this salt is the dynamic material which generates
spiritual electricity, and ensouls the physical form with life.
And this is only one of his twelve astounding allocations.
For astrology, that synthesizer of all knowledge, both cosmic
and microcosmic, in the universe and in man, reveals to us why
Kali phos is the Aries salt. This substance, through which the
Most High manifests in man, is the cause of actual life in his
form.
And to the degree in which the cerebro-spinal nerves are
supplied with
it,
will energy or life manifest
in
and through
him. The light of intelligence (Spirit or Father) will burn
brightly
if
this substance, which alone can feed
it,
is
sufficiently
and adequately furnished.
Therefore
:
a
perfect supply of the right chemical elements
means perfect cells,
a
perfect brain, perfect thought, perfect
acts, perfection A GOD-MAN!
In contributing the foregoing
I
bespeak my deep and lasting
gratitude to Dr. George W. Carey for -the chemical light
which he has thrown on dark places. Reader, Truth
is
the
water of life
!
May you drink deeply, and begin to learn how
to live forever
!
"And let patience have its perfect work, that ye may be PERFECT and
ENTIRE and LACK NOTHING." Jam"
1
!*
[viii]
THE BIRTH OF THE AUTHOR, "THE SAINT
GEORGE" OF BIOCHEMISTRY
BY
Edith F. A. U. Painton
Time, September 7th, 1845, 4:45 P. M.
ENTER R. L. U. SAINT GEORGE
It was on Seprember seventh, in eighteen hundred forty-five,
The planets of the heavens were wonderfully alive;
Luna was well in Scorpio, with Sol in Virgo's light,
While Venus was exalted, just between, in Libra bright.
Said Luna, "Listen, Venus! although we are semi-square,
It's up to you and me to send to Earth a spirit rare;
That dark star's out of tune, and needs a strong, awakening
soul
Like those that you, fair Queen of Art, do beautifully control !
"Let's send down to the Earth today today, but ne'er again-
One of those Alchemists of life they call September men !
A genius, Venus listen from your Occult House, I pray,
A genius of that Virgin soil that must all Science sway.'
The Goddess of Love answered, "I know, but take one peep
Uranus's opposition is a thing to make me weep !
And his house rises soon so heavens ! what could we
ever do ?
A genius we might send, but Oh ! what MUST we send him
through ?"
"Naught cares a genius," Luna smiled; "send him through
hottest hell,
He'll smile, and take his way unmoved, declaring all is well !
I've picked the man with heart of gold an OR of vital
force,
And at the proper hour, we'll speed the soul upon its course !"
Still Venus hesitated "But Mercury, what of him?
He's in his night-house, don't you see, where all his force is
dim!
[ix]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
And Jove opposed, you see" "Be still," said Luna, "he
Is close behind Old Sol, in Seventh, where Messengers should
bel
"And as for Jupiter, of course I'd rather he would smile,
But if he won't he'll have to frown another little while;
We'll fix him in Third House to make a man of broadest
mind,
A Father of Big Thought, a chief and leader of his kind !"
"But Luna can you think it safe? The Dragon is at rest,
Its Head within religion's house where all is at its best;
Its Tail down in the lower mind O what a power today!
But this Saint George would saunter forth this heavenly beast
to slay !"
A deep bass growl from distant space rolled through the home
of spheres,
And Venus drew near Luna, seeking solace for her fears.
"Hush! don't let grim old Saturn hear, or He'll retard the
plan,
And cast his gloom o'er all our works in every way he can !"
"Eclipse for Saturn and his frowns," said Luna, full of scorn,
"Let Mars and Neptune in first house the leading aspects
form;
While Uranus, defying both, will leap o'er all that bars,
And lure to earth to plead for us a student of the stars !"
"He is the one to ever rule the true Aquarian born,
So what care we for Saturn's chill, or Mar's malignant scorn?
He'll draw unto the Earth, I'm sure, a Saint George full of
fire,
To slay the world's conventions with a sword of purpose
dire!"
Hark! A swift war-like commotion through the stellar
spaces ran,
As all the heavenly planets overheard the little plan;
"We will not have this rebel loosed on earth," protested they,
"We will not countenance such revolt. Man must our laws
obeyl"
They all recalled the many lives they'd helped him live before,
They all looked back on ages past, and then they sternly
swore,
W
The Birth of the Author
Not once again could they be blamed for such peculiar dope
As now boiled in Life's crucible to mold this horoscope!
"We've met in trines; we've fought; we've joined; we've met
in terms of sex;
We've formed all sorts of aspects that can human souls per
plex;
But if he goes to earth again, just count our force not there !
For if we're to come to orb, we'll all act on the square !"
Then all reversed their motion, and walked backward, one by
one,
Endeavoring to escape the thing the karmic gods had done;
But, retrograde or not, the word went forth to shake the earth,
And Gee-OR-Gee, (the Gold in Earth) came to the hour of
birth !
And ever since, the planets as they grace his horoscope,
Have kept their faces towards him, walking backward, void
of hope,
For he upsets all theories, and their age-old thought he jars,
Preaching a New Age Eternal, in defiance of the Stars !
He came to slay the Dragon, and to span the Bridge of Time;
To find the chemicals of life, and blend their force sublime,
To unlock earth's grim secrets, facing revolution's strife,
And scaling highest heaven to demand immortal life!
Los Angeles, California, February 19, 1916.
Note. Mrs. Painton will be remembered by many of the older astrologers and
especially by the Fellows of the American Academy.
[xij
IN MEMORIAM
Dr. George Washington Carey was born in Dixon, Illinois,
on September 7th, 1845, and was one of a large family of
children. His father's name was John Carey, and bore the
relation of grand-nephew to John Quincy Adams. On his
mother's side, a grandfather served with General Marion
during the Revolution. His mother's name was Ruth Odell.
When George Carey was about a year and a half old, the
Careys left Illinois and came by covered wagon to Oregon, a
journey of six months. The motion picture entitled "The
Covered Wagon" gives an extremely realistic presentation of
the main features of that trip and Dr. Carey greatly enjoyed
seeing it.
He had very little schooling, but his parents were well
qualified to teach him the fundamentals. His father was well
known for his humorous verses which embodied much of Irish
wit. As a child George was very delicate, his parents being
doubtful that he would grow to manhood. His earlier years
were spent on a farm, the evenings enlivened by music. Later
on, he became leader of the village orchestra.
In his early forties he became the first Postmaster of
Yakima, Washington, and held the position for several terms.
Hearing of the science of biochemistry, he resigned to devote
his life to its study.
Together with a number of physicians, Dr. Carey founded
the College of Biochemistry in Yakima, Washington, and a
few students enrolled and graduated, among them being the
College founders; but, as this was many years ago, not much
interest in the subject was aroused, and the project was given
up because of lack of support.
Dr. Chapman was one of those taking the course, and the
book which he wrote on biochemistry has been a popular
household work.
Today this science is coming before the world, seemingly
by leaps and bounds. Schools devoted to the teaching of bio
chemistry in a practical way are starting up in many states of
the Middle West, and entire families are learning how to
[xii]
In Memoriam
supply their blood deficiencies. After years of almost heart
breaking pioneering, of almost utter discouragement, on the
part of its advocates, the science is now fast becoming recog
nized. In 1928, I believe, the Eclectic College of Chiro
practic of Los Angeles added biochemistry to its curriculum.
Most people are not aware that biochemistry is an ancient
Sanscrit science. Once again the cycle has appeared, upon
whose wave it is borne. When Dr. Carey wrote his work on
The Biochemic System of Medicine, its first press recognition
was in a Health Magazine published by biochemic physicians
in India. It stated: "We are glad to see that a western
brother is helping to bring back the ancient science of bio
chemistry."
The book referred to above is now in its twenty-third edi
tion. Years ago, when Dr. Carey wrote this treatise, he was
financially unable to publish
it,
and sold the copyright to the
Luyties Pharmacal Company, of St. Louis. Old Dr. Luyties,
the founder of the firm, as well as Dr. Boericke, had inter
viewed Dr. William Schuessler, the originator of biochemistry,
in
Oldenburg, Germany. They learned his method of prepar
ing the cell salts or mineral constituents of the blood, and pre
sented
it
in
this country. Since Dr. Carey's death in 1924,
the last edition of his book was re-edited by
a
Dr. Arthur
Perry, and
it
has lost its old familiar aspect. The writer of
this article
is
now preparing
a
new and up-to-date edition corn-
one to work out his or her own individual chemical plan from
the birth data.
It
was Dr. Carey, who,
in
one of those strange and rare
moments which come to those who seek, ascribed to each sign
of the zodiac its corresponding chemical element or salt (salt
is
an old term for "earth"), and. wrote The Relation
of
the
Mineral Salts
of
the Body to the Signs
of
the Zodiac, the
most unique work of the century and the most valuable.
It
has been regrettable that so many have copied this work,
plagiarists who have never mentioned his name as the dis
tinguished author. Recently
a
Chicago magazine carried an
advertisement, much of which was copied, word for word,
from one of his circulars, no credit given and no quotation
marks used.
Because the work was never copyrighted by Dr. Carey
is
no excuse for not giving the author credit for it.
It
is
for
bining with the science enable any
[xiii]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
the purpose of emphasizing this, and securing for him per
manent recognition, that this fourteenth edition is combined
with some new writings of my own, and copyrighted.
And as it is the fourteenth in the series, it means a new
product, the mystical fruit of a new age, the Aquarian, con
cerning which Dr. Carey often wrote and spoke. It is a new
product, because for the first time it is definitely stated to be
the Key to Physical Regeneration and Spiritual Illumination.
The fourteenth letter of the Hebrew alphabet is N, spelled
Nun in that language. Its literal interpretation is fish, (fruit
or progeny.) In the Biblical story, Joshua was the son of
Nun, and Joshua is the origin of the Latinized form, Jesus.
Therefore Jesus also means fish. It is common knowledge
that the fish ha? been the esoteric symbol for two thousand
years, at least, for the Son of Man. This will be dealt with at
great length under Virgo, the sixth lesson or chapter.
This edition, then, is symbolic of all that the letter N
means, the new man, for it gives information relative to the
necessary material required to produce, or create that new
man. Dr. Carey also gave to the world the formula for bio-
plasma, which is a combination of the twelve inorganic salts
of the blood, combined in the proportion which he considered
necessary to create healthy, or chemically perfect blood.
Those who are familiar with his book, The Biochemic
System of Medicine, feel that he improved greatly the appli
cation of Schuessler's system. More and more information is
being constantly obtained, so that still further contributions
will be made to this invaluable science. As the Scriptures
state "All things work together for good," and until we
learn what they are and apply them, we can not hope to arrive
at the perfect state.
Some years after becoming interested in biochemistry, Dr.
Carey edited a small magazine dealing with this subject, and
containing also humorous articles and poems from his pen.
His Chemistry of the Cosmos found many appreciative read
ers, as it contained unusual poems as well as articles of a
scientific nature. One which was especially valued was entitled
//, and dealt with the one universal esse from which all
things originate and to which they eventually return.
His explanation of slang phrases is very interesting as
well as instructive, for he brings out the fact that they are
based on truth and that the Cosmic Mind or planetary vibra
[xiv]
In Memoriam
tion, impinging (the same as radio waves) on the human brain
at a certain time causes mental electricity to etch in a certain
manner on the wax-like brain cells. Hence thoughts are
produced relative to particular subjects.
In just this way public or mass interest is aroused along
definite lines. Great truths are thus expressed in a manner
attractive to the great majority of minds, stepped down, we
may say, into a vernacular which is "catchy," while the idea
back of it all is comprehended only by a few.
Not only was Dr. Carey deeply interested in life's chemical
mysteries, but his searching mind longed to solve the greatest
or all, that of physical regeneration and spiritual illumination,
and the plan or process necessary for its attainment. Hiram
Butler's theory appealed to him and he began his researches
along that line, finding at last that God, Word, seed, fish,
Jesus and progeny are words synonymous in meaning, and
when understood from their etymological derivation, will un
lock the door of the Inner Mystery. He discovered that
esse, the substance of being, the elixir of life in other words
the brain or life substance is the protoplasmic seed material
which is found to be the possession of every human being. The
Herculean task or great work which everyone must perform,
eventually, is the purification and perfection of this material,
for it then becomes the Christ or Holy Oil.
The astounding revelation of what this means came to Dr.
Carey when he had passed his seventieth year, and he went
forth bravely to give it to the world. He found, at a late day,
what he had been searching for all his life, the greatest secret
of all. It is not hidden from anyone, but each hides it from
himself because of mental inability to grasp it.
And thus he set his feet, at last, upon the rung of the ladder
which leads back home to God or good. To find that rung
and set one's feet thereon is the day of all days for every
human being. Then one must begin the climb. Literally, it
means that one is endeavoring to BECOME a Christian,
to make a new being of one's self. To become a Christian
does not refer to a belief that a certain man was killed by ?
mob in order that our sins might be forgiven. In fact that is
utter nonsense, for it would make null and void the law of
cause and effect, and contradict point blank the declaration
that we must "Work out our own salvation." It truly must
be worked out, for it is a definite process, physiological and
mental, and hence moral.
[xv]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
The climb to the heights is not the work of one lifetime,
but of many, for the simple reason that it is too great a task
to accomplish in a few short years. "Know the truth and
the truth shall set you free," the Bible states. Yes, free from
pain, sickness, sorrow and death, for truly death is "the last
enemy to be overcome." Death, aside from accident, is the
result of dis-ease, inharmony in the chemical elements of
the blood, hence cell starvation. Therefore we will overcome
death when we know enough to live. One link of the chain of
bondage (ignorance) falls off at a time, until we are free.
Dr. Carey's initial attempt to give out information relative
to the subject of occult physiology and the process of redemp
tion and salvation was a book entitled The Tree of Life.
It was this publication which gave me my first insight into
the real nature of the Scriptures and occult works in general.
I realized that they were a compilation of scientific facts about
mankind, physiological, anatomical, chemical, and metaphysi
cal. Later on, after beginning the study of esoteric astrology,
I realized that this noble science synthesized them all. I found
it a veritable treasure house of facts, and dug deeply and am
still digging in this mine of wealth.
In his seventy-second year Dr. Carey offered me a partner
ship, which was accepted and purchased. Like his, my interest
was,
is,
and will be entirely along these lines.
In 1923, the work of the Los Angeles office was taken over
by me and he sailed for Australia, his plan being to spend
some time there. However, the long and tiresome trip and
arduous work
in
a
new field was more than he should have
attempted. He mapped out too much work, too many lec
tures. He felt he must not lose
a
moment, that the great
message must be given without ceasing, humanity's need was
so great and the time so short.
It
was short for him, as he
was nearing his eightieth year, and short also for those who
had not yet turned to higher things. Earth
is
preparing once
again for great changes, as the solar system nears the con
stellation of Aquarius. The 2160 years required for
it
to
pass through its atmosphere
is
termed the Aquarian Age or
the Age of the Son of Man. Humanity must begin to look
upward, for
it
will be forced to by this very vibration. The
mind must begin to expand and the animal-man at last make
a
decided effort to purify himself of his animal nature and be
come really humane.
Then will humanity work with Nature and not against
[xvi]
In Memoriam
her, and thus, indeed, will the very earth be made new. "And
there shall be a new heaven and a new earth."
Dr. Carey and I together revised and enlarged The Tree of
Life, and as co-authors published God-Man, The Word Made
Flesh, together with a large physiological chart giving much
data on occult physiology, and indicating the positions of the
seven great nerve centers or chakras, otherwise the Seven
Churches of Asia. This work has seen three editions. It is
temporarily out of print awaiting the completion of a mass of
new material which will be added to it.
Dr. Carey also published two other books, The Chemistry
of Life, and The Chemistry and Wonders of the Human
Body.
Returning to the states from his trip to Australia, he went
to San Diego to lecture, and on the 17th day of November,
1924, stepped forth from his physical vehicle. His wish that
it be cremated was fulfilled. The Grand Army, of which he
was a member, had charge of the services.
To those who ask the question, "Why did not the cell food
and his belief in physical regeneration cause him to live
longer," I will say that the answer has already been given.
He found the key to physical regeneration only after he had
passed seventy. The process is not of one life, one incarna
tion, but of many. Only those unfamiliar with this subject ask
that question. He lived, at that, longer than the average per
son, even though beginning life with a very sensitive, delicate
body. Constantly engaged in strenuous work, he accomplished
more at seventy years of age along that line than the average
man of fifty, and he traveled and lectured up to the very last.
Dr. Carey's mentality was of a mercurial type, Mercury
and the Sun having been in Virgo at birth, therefore he was
critical and analytical. When lecturing, he would make a
tremendously iconoclastic statement relative to some astound
ing fact and, without explaining, soar on his Mercury wings
to more loftv heights. Resting for a moment, his audience
would be blinded by another flash from the mighty sword of
Truth; but he left it to them to fill in the intervening space,
and very few could. His flights into mental ether where facts
are born were so lofty that his journey was a lonely one. His
was a truly scientific mind which nothing but facts could
satisfy, and he demanded facts of others.
In his early forties he gave up smoking and never took
liquor in any form whatsoever, as he realized what effect they
[xvii]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
both had on the delicate tissues, membranes and glands of the
body which the Scriptures call "THE TEMPLE OF GOD."
In this incarnation he did the best he could to utilize and work
out the truths he had contacted.
Many people all over the country tell me that the informa
tion which Dr. Carey gave forth in his writings and lectures
have been the means of opening up an entirely new vista of life
to them, and they bless him for it. We, too, bless him, and radio
our gratitude to him in the realm of the unseen where he is
waiting. When the time is ripe and the astrological moment
arrives which will produce the vibration necessary for his
reappearance in the objective, may he come forth again in
physical manifestation to go on with the work he loved so
well. Requiescat in pace!
[xviii]
THE NEW NAME
"And I will write upon him the name of my God." "And I will write
him my new name." Revelation.
Man struggling up to the sunlight,
Up from the mire and clay,
Fighting through wars and jungles,
And sometimes learning to pray
And sometimes a king with a scepter,
And sometimes a slave with a hod ;
Some people call it Karma,
And others call it God.
A beggar ragged and hungry,
A prince in purple and gold,
A palace gilded and garnished,
A cottage humble and old
One's hopes are blighted in blooming,
One gathers the ripened pod
Some call it Fate or Destiny,
And others call it God.
Glimmering waters and breakers,
Far on the horizon's rim,
White sails and sea-gulls glinting
Away till the sight grows dim,
And shells, spirit-painted with glory,
Where seaweeds beckon and nod
Some people call it Ocean,
And others call it God.
Cathedrals and domes uplifting,
Spires pointing up to the sun,
Images, altars and arches,
Where kneeling and penance are done
From organs grand anthems are swelling,
Where the true and faithful plod
Some call it Superstition,
While others call it God.
[xix]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Visions of beauty and splendor,
Forms of a long-lost race,
Sounds of faces and voices,
From the fourth dimension of space
And on through the universe boundless,
Our thoughts go lightning shod
Some call it Imagination,
And others call it God.
Acids and alkalies acting,
Proceeding and acting again,
Operating, transmuting, fomenting,
In throes and spasms of pain
Uniting, reacting, creating,
Like souls "passing under the rod"
Some people call it Chemistry,
And others call it God.
Vibration of Etheric Substance,
Causing light through regions of space,
A girdle of Something, enfolding,
And binding together the race
And words without wires transmitted,
"Ariel" winged, spirit-sandaled and shod
Some call it Electricity,
Earth redeemed and made glorious,
Lighted by Heaven within,
Men and angels face to face,
With never a thought of sin
Lion and lamb together,
In flowers that sweeten the sod
Some of us call it Brotherhood,
And others call it God.
And now the sixth sense is opened,
And we have rent the veil,
And we no longer wander,
We have ransomed the "Holy Grail."
Through all of life's phases and changes,
Along all new paths to be trod,
We will recognize only one power
One present, Omnipotent God.
Note: There have been so many requests for this much admired poem from
the pen of Dr. Carey that it is believed its publication herein will be appreciated
by his friends.
[xx]
RELATION OF THE MINERAL SALTS OF THE
BODY TO THE SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC
BY
Dr. George W. Carey j : :\\ ] \
BIOCHEMISTRY : ::.
".." :.. : :"
Acid and Alkali acting,
Proceeding and acting again.
Operating, transmuting, fomenting
In throes and spasms of pain
Uniting, reacting, creating,
Like souls "passing under the rod"
Some people call it Chemistry,
And others call it God.
©
^OCHEMISTRY means that chemistry of life, or
the union of inorganic and organic substances where-
_ by new compounds are formed.
In its relation to so-called disease this system uses the in
organic salts, known as cell-salts, or tissue builders.
The constituent parts of man's body are perfect principles,
namely, oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, lime, iron, potash, soda,
silica, magnesia, etc. These elements, gases, etc., are perfect
per se, but may be endlessly diversified in combination as may
the planks, bricks or stones with which a building is to be
erected.
A shadow can not be removed by chemicals; neither can dis
ease be removed by poison. There is nothing (no thing) to
be removed in either case; but there is a deficiency to be sup
plied. The shadow may be removed by supplying light to the
space covered by the shadow.
So symptoms, called disease, disappear or cease to manifest
when the food called for is furnished.
The human body is a receptacle or a storage battery, and
will always run well while the chemicals are present in proper
quantity and combination, as surely as an automobile will run
when charged and supplied with the necessary ingredients to
vibrate or cause motion.
The cell-salts are found in all our foods, and are thus
carried into the blood, where they carry on the process of life,
[21]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
and by the law of chemical affinity keep the human form,
bodily functions, materialized. When a deficiency occurs in
any of these workers through a non-assimilation of food, poor
action of liver or digestive process, dematerialization or the
body commences. So disease is a deficiency in some of the
chemical constituents that carry on the chemistry of life and
not an entity.
Having learned that disease is not a thing, but a condition
due- to lack of some inorganic constituent of the blood, it fol
lows 'naturally that the proper method of cure is to supply
the blood with that which is lacking. In the treatment of dis
ease the 'use- 'of anything not a constituent of the blood is un
necessary.
Dr. Charles W. Littlefield, analytical chemist, says:
"The twelve mineral salts are, in a very real sense, the material basis of the
organs and tissues of the body and are absolutely essential to their integrity of
structure and functional activity. Experiments prove that the various tissue
cells will rapidly disintegrate in the absence of the proper proportion of these
salts in the circulating fluid. Whereas the maintenance of this proportion in
sures healthy growth and perpetual renewal.
"These mineral salts are, therefore, the physical basis of all healing. Regard
less of the school employed, if these are absent from the blood and tissues, no
permanent cure is possible."
ESOTERIC CHEMISTRY
In this strenuous age of reconstruction, while God's creative
compounds are forming a new race in the morning of a new
age, all who desire physical regeneration should strive by
every means within their reach to build new tissue, nerve fluids
and brain cells, thus literally making "new bottles for the new
wine." For be it known to all men that the word "wine" as
used in Scripture, means blood when used in connection with
man. It also means the sap of trees and juice of vegetables
or fruit.
The parable of turning water into wine at the marriage of
Cana in Galilee is a literal statement of a process taking place
every heart-beat in the human organism.
Galilee means a circle of water or fluid the circulatory
system. Cana means a dividing place the lungs. In the
Greek, "a place of reeds," or cells of lungs that vibrate sound.
Biochemists have shown that food does not form blood, but
simply furnishes the mineral base by setting free the inorganic
or cell-salts contained in all food-stuff. The organic part, oil,
fibrin, albumen, etc., contained in food is burned or digested
[22]
Esoteric Chemistry
in the stomach and intestinal tract to furnish motive power
to operate the human machine and draw air into lungs, thence
into arteries; i.e., air carriers.
Therefore, it is clearly proved that air (spirit) unites with
the minerals and forms blood, proving that the oil, albumen,
etc., found in blood, is created every breath at the "marriage
in Cana of Galilee."
Air was called water or pure sea, viz: Virgin Mar-y. So
we see how water is changed into wine blood every
moment.
In the new age, we will need perfect bodies to correspond
with the higher vibration, or motion of the new blood, for
"old bottles (bodies) can not contain the new wine."
Another allegorical statement typifying the same truth
reads, "And I saw a new Heaven and a new Earth," i.e., a
new mind and a new body.
Biochemistry may well say with Walt Whitman : "To the
sick lying on their backs I bring help, and to the strong, up
right man I bring more needed help." To be grouchy, cross,
irritable, despondent or easily discouraged, is prima facie
evidence that the fluids of the stomach, liver and brain are
not vibrating at normal rate, the rate that results in equi
librium or health. Health cannot be qualified; i.e., poor health;
or good health. There must be either health or dishealth;
ease or disease. We do not say poor ease or good ease. We
say ease or disease, viz., not at ease.
A sufficient amount of the cell-salts of the body, properly
combined and taken as food not simply to cure some ache,
pain or exudation forms blood that materializes in healthy
fluids, flesh and bone tissue.
We should take the tissue cell-salts as one uses health foods,
not simply to change not-health to health, but to keep the rate
of blood vibration in the tone of health all the time.
THE ULTIMATE OF BIOCHEMISTRY
The microscope increases the rate of motion of the cells of
the retina and we see things that were occulted to the natural
rate of vibration of sight cells. Increase the rate of activity
of brain cells by supplying more of the dynamic molecules of
the blood known as mineral or cell-salts of lime, potash,
sodium, iron, magnesia, silica; and we see, mentally, truths that
we could not sense at lower or natural rates of motion,
although the lower rate may manifest ordinary health.
[23]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Natural man, or natural things, must be raised from the
level of nature to super-natural, in order to realize new con
cepts that lie waiting for recognition above the solar plexus;
that
is,
above the animal or natural man.
The positive pole, or being, must be "lifted up" from the
kingdom of earth, animal desire below the solar plexus, to
the pineal gland which connects the cerebellum, the temple of
the Spiritual Ego, with the optic thalamus, the third eye.
By this regenerative process millions of dormant cells of
the brain are resurrected and set
in
operation, and then man
no longer "sees through
a
glass darkly," but with the eye of
spiritual understanding.
To those who object to linking chemistry with astrology,
the writer has this to say:
The Cosmic Law
is
not
in
the least disturbed
by
negative
statements of the ignorant individual. Those investigators
of natural phenomena, who delve deeply to find truth, pay
little heed to the dabbler who says, "I can't understand how
the zodiacal signs can have any relation to the cell-salts of the
human body." The sole reason that he "cannot understand"
is
because he never tried to understand.
A little earnest, patient study will open the understanding
of anyone possessed of ordinary intelligence, and make plain
the great truth that the UNIverse
is
what the word implies;
i.e., one verse.
It logically follows that all parts of one thing are susceptible
to the operation of any part.
The human body
is
an epitome of the cosmos.
Each sign of the zodiac
is
represented by the twelve func
tions of the body and the position of the Sun at birth.
Therefore the cell-salt corresponding to the sign of the
zodiac and function of the body
is
consumed more rapidly than
other salts; and an extra amount
is
needed to supply the
deficiency caused by the Sun's influence at that particular time.
Space will permit only
a
brief statement of the awakening
of humanity to great occult truths. However, the following
from India will indicate the trend of new thought: "Doctor
Carey's remarkable researches
in
the domain of healing art
have left no stone unturned. His discovery of the zodiacal
cell-salts has added
a
new page
in
the genesis of healing art,"
writes Swaminatha Bomiah, M.B., Ph.D.Sc, F.I.A.C.,
in
an
article
in
Self-Culture Magazine, published at No. 105
Armenian St., G. T., Madras, India.
[24]
Aries
THE TWELVE CELL-SALTS OF THE ZODIAC
ARIES: "THE LAMB OF GOD"
March 21 to April 21.
Astrologers have for many years waited for the coming
discovery of a planet to rule the head or brain of man, sym
bolized in the "Grand Man" of the heavens by the celestial
sign of the zodiac, regnant from March 21 to April 21. This
sign is known as Aries the Ram or Lamb.
Angles of planets cause effects or influences. The priest
hood of the middle ages, wishing to control the ignorant
masses, personified the influence of planetary aspects, positions
or angles, and transposed the letters so they spelled angel.
Upon this one "slippery cog" the stupendous frauds of
ecclesiasticism were built.
With the false teachings of the Church ingrained into the
fiber of the brain of man, is it strange that for years before
the advent of a new planet, with its added angle (influence),
the brain cells of earth's inhabitants should be disturbed,
as the effects of the coming storms disturb the fluids and
mechanism of the weather forecaster's laboratory?
The coming of Christ and the end of the world has been
preached from every street corner for several years, and
thousands, yea, millions, are pledging themselves to try to
live as Christ lived or according to their concept of His life.
No great movement of the people ever occurs without a
scientific cause.
The optic thalamus, meaning "light of the chamber," is
the inner or third eye, situated in the center of the head. It
connects the pineal gland and the pituitary body. The optic
nerve starts from this "eye single." "If thine eye be single,
thy whole body will be full of light." The optic thalamus is
the Aries planet and when fully developed through physical
regeneration (see God-Man; The Word Made Flesh), it lifts
the initiate from the kingdom of earth, animal desire below
the solar plexus, to the pineal gland that connects the cerebel
lum, the temple of the Spiritual Ego, with the optic thalamus,
the third eye.
By this regenerative process millions of dormant cells of
the brain are resurrected and set in operation, and then man
no longer "sees through a glass darkly," but with the eye of
spiritual understanding.
[25]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
I venture to predict that the planet corresponding to the
optic thalamus will soon be located in the heavens.
"The new order cometh."
In ancient lore Aries was known as the "Lamb of God,"
or Gad, which represents the head or brain. The brain con
trols and directs the body and mind of man. The brain itself,
however, is a receiver operated upon by celestial influences
or angles (angels) and must operate according to the direct
ing force or intelligence of its source of power.
Man has been deficient in understanding because his brain
receiver did not vibrate to certain subtle influences. The
dynamic cells in the gray matter of the nerves were not finely
attuned and did not respond hence sin, or falling short of
understanding.
From the teachings of the chemistry of life we find that
the ba§is of the brain or nerve fluid is a certain mineral salt
known as potassium phosphate, or Kali phos.
A deficiency in this brain constituent means "sin," or a
falling short of judgment or proper comprehension. With
the advent of the Aries Lord, God, or planet, cell-salts are
rapidly coming to the fore as the basis of all healing. Kali
phosphate is the greatest healing agent known to man, because
it is the chemical base of material expression and under
standing.
The cell-salts of the human organism are now being pre
pared for use, while poisonous drugs are being discarded
everywhere. Kali phosphate is the especial birth salt for
those born between March 21 and April 21.
These people are brain workers, earnest, executive and
determined thus do they rapidly use up the brain vitalizers.
Aries gems are amethyst and diamond.
The astral colors are white and rose pink.
In Bible alchemy Aries represents Gad, the seventh son of
Jacob, and means "armed and prepared" thus it is said when
in trouble or danger, "keep your head."
In the symbolism of the New Testament, Aries corresponds
to the disciple Thomas. Aries people are natural doubters
until they figure a thing out for themselves.
[26]
Taurus
TAURUS "THE WINGED BULL" OF THE ZODIAC
April 21 to May 21.
The ancients were not "primitive men." There never was
a first man, nor a primitive man. Man is an eternal verity
the truth. Truth never had a beginning.
The Winged Bull of Nineveh is a symbol of the great truth
that substance is materialized air, and that all so-called solid
substances may be resolved into air.
Taurus is an earth sign, but earth (soul) is precipitated
aerial elements. This chemical fact was known to the scien
tists of the Taurian age (over 4000 years ago) ; therefore
they carved the emblem of their zodiacal sign with wings.
Those born between the dates April 21 and May 21 can
descend very deep into materiality or soar "High as that
Heaven where Taurus wheels," as written by Edwin Mark-
ham, who is a Taurus native.
What can be finer than the following from this noted
Taurian, he who has sprouted the wings of spiritual concept :
"It is a vision waiting and aware,
And you must bring it down, oh, men of worth,
Bring down the New Republic hung in air
And make for it foundations on the Earth."
Air is the "raw material" for blood, and when it is drawn
in, or breathed in, rather, by the "Infinite Alchemist," to the
blood vessels, it unites with the philosopher's stone, mineral
salts, and in the human laboratory creates blood.
So, then, blood is the elixir of life, the "Ichor of the Gods."
The sulphate of sodium, known to druggists as Nat. sulph.,
chemically corresponds to the physical and mental character
istics of those born in the Taurus month.
Taurus is represented by the cerebellum, or lower brain,
and neck.
A deficiency in Natrium sulphate in the blood is always
manifested by pains in the back of the head, sometimes ex
tending down the spine, and then affecting the liver.
The first cell-salt to become deficient in symptoms of dis
ease in the Taurus native is Natrium sulphate.
The chief office of Natrium sulphate is to eliminate an
excess of water from the body.
In hot weather the atmosphere becomes heavily laden with
water and is thus breathed into the blood through the lungs.
[27]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
One molecule of the Taurus salt has the chemical power to
take up and carry out of the system two molecules of water.
Blood does not become overcharged with water from the
water we drink, but from an atmosphere overcharged with
aqueous vapor drawn from water in rivers, lakes or swamps,
by heat of the sun above seventy degrees in shade.
The more surplus water there is to be thrown out of the
blood, the more sodium sulphate required.
All so-called bilious or malarial troubles are simply a
chemical effect or action caused by deficient sulphate of soda.
Chills and fever are Nature's method of getting rid of
surplus water by squeezing it out of the blood through violent
muscular, nervous and vascular spasms.
No "shakes" or ague can occur if blood be properly balanced
chemically.
Governing planet: Venus.
Gems: Moss-agate and emerald.
Astral colors : Red and lemon yellow.
In Bible alchemy, Taurus represents Asher, the eighth son
of Jacob, and means blessedness or happiness.
In the symbolism of the New Testament, Taurus corres
ponds to the disciple Thaddeus, meaning firmness, or led by
love.
THE CHEMISTRY OF GEMINI
May 21 to June 21.
One of the chief characteristics of the Gemini native is ex
pression. The cell-salt Kali muriaticum (potassium chloride)
is the mineral worker of blood that forms fibrin and properly
diffuses it throughout the tissues of the body.
This salt must not be confused with the chlorate of potash,
a poison (chemical formula KC103).
The formula of the chloride of potassium (Kali mur) is
KC1.
Kali mur molecules are the principal agents used in the
chemistry of life to build fibrin into the human organism.
The skin that covers the face contains the lines and angles
that give expression, and thus differentiates one person from
another; therefore the maker of fibrin has been designated
as the birth salt of the Gemini native.
In venous blood fibrin amounts to three in one thousand
[28]
Gemini
parts. When the molecules of Kali mur fall below the stand
ard, the blood fibrin thickens, causing what is known as
pleurisy, pneumonia, catarrh, diphtheria, etc. When the
circulation fails to throw out the thickened fibrin via' the
glands or mucous membrane, it may stop the action of the
heart. Embolus is a Latin word meaning little lump, or balls;
therefore to die of embolus or "heart failure" generally
means that the heart's action was stopped by little lumps of
fibrin clogging the auricles and ventricles of the heart.
When the blood contains the proper amount of Kali mur,
fibrin is functional and the symptoms referred to above do
not manifest. Gemini means twins. Gemini is the sign which
governs the United States.
The astral colors of Gemini are red, white, and blue. While
those who made our first flag and chose the colors, personally
knew nothing of astrology, yet the Cosmic Law worked its
will to give America the "red, white, and blue."
Mercury is the governing planet of Gemini. The gems are
beryl, aquamarine, and dark blue stones. In Bible alchemy,
Gemini represents Issachar, the ninth son of Jacob, and means
price, reward, or recompense. In the symbolic allegories
of the New Testament, Gemini corresponds to the disciple
Judas, which means service or necessity. The perverted ideas
of an ignorant dark-age priesthood made "service and neces
sity" infamous by a literal rendering of the alchemical symbol,
but during the present Aquarian age, the Judas symbol will
be understood and the disciple of "service" will no longer
have to submit to "third degree methods."
CANCER: THE CHEMISTRY OF THE "CRAB"
June 21 to July 22.
Cancer is the mother sign of the zodiac.
The mother's breast is the soul's first home after taking on
flesh and "rending the Veil of Isis."
The tenacity of those born between the dates June 21 and
July 22, in holding on to a home or dwelling place is well
illustrated by the crab's grip, and also by the fact that it
carries its house along wherever it goes in order that it may
be sure of a dwelling.
[29]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
The angles (angels) of the twelve zodiacal signs ma
terialize their vitalities in the human microcosm. Through
the operation of chemistry, energy creating, the intelligent
molecules of Divine substance make the "Word flesh."
The corner stone in the chemistry of the crab is the in
organic salt fluoride of lime, known in pharmacy as Calcarea
flourica. It is a combination of flourine and lime.
When this cell-salt is deficient in the blood, physical and
mental disease (not-at-ease) is the result. Elastic fiber is
formed by the union of the fluoride of lime with albuminoids,
whether in the rubber tree or the human body. All relaxed
conditions of tissue (varicose veins and kindred ailments) are
due to a lack of sufficient amount of elastic fiber to "rubber"
the tissue and hold it in place.
When elastic fiber is deficient in tissue of membrane between
the upper and lower brain poles cerebrum and cerebellum
there results a "sagging apart" of the positive and negative
poles of the dynamo that runs the machinery of man.
An unfailing sign or symptom of this deficiency is a ground
less fear of financial ruin.
While those born in any of the twelve signs may sometimes
be deficient in Calcium fluoride, due to Mars or Mercury (or
both) in Cancer at birth, Cancer people are more liable to
symptoms indicating a lack of this elastic fiber-builder than
are those born in other signs.
Why should we search Latin or Greek lexicons to find a
name for the result of a deficiency in some of the mineral con
stituents of blood? If we find a briar in our flesh, we say so
in the plainest speech; we do not say, "I have the briatitis or
splintraligia."
When we know that a deficiency in the cell-salts of the blood
causes the symptoms that medical ignorance has dignified and
personified with names that nobody knows the meaning of,
we will know how to heal scientifically by the unalterable law
of the chemistry of life. When we learn the cause of disease,
then, and not before, will we prevent disease.
Not through quarantine, nor disinfectants, nor "Boards of
Health" will man reach the long sought plane of health; not
through affirmations of health, nor denials of disease will
bodily regeneration be wrought; not by dieting or fasting or
"Fletcherizing" or suggesting, will the elixir of life and the
philosopher's stone be found.
[30]
Leo
The "mercury of the sages" and the "Hidden Manna" are
not constituents of health foods.
Victims of salt baths and massage are bald before their
time, and the alcohol, steam and Turkish bath fiends die
young.
"Sic transit gloria mundi."
When a man's body is made chemically perfect, the
operations of mind will perfectly express.
Gems belonging to the sign of the breast are black onyx and
emerald; astral colors, green and russet-brown.
Cancer is represented by Zebulum, the tenth son of Jacob,
and means dwelling place or habitation.
Matthew is the Cancer disciple.
LEO: THE HEART OF THE ZODIAC
July 22 to August 23.
The Sun overflows with divine energy. It is the "brewpot"
that forever filters and scatters the "elixir of life."
Those born while the Sun is passing through Leo, July 22
to August 23, receive the heart vibrations, or pulses, of the
Grand Man, or "Circle of Beasts." All the blood in the body
passes through the heart. So the Leo native is the recipient
of every quality and possibility contained in the great
"alchemical vase," the "Son of Heaven."
The impulsive traits of Leo people are symboled in the
pulse, which is a reflex of heart throbs.
The astronomer, by unerring law of mathematics applied
to space, proportion, and the so-far-discovered wheels and
cogs of the uni-machine, can tell where a certain planet must
be located before the telescope has verified the prediction. So
the astro-biochemist knows there must of necessity be a blood
mineral and tissue builder to correspond with the materialized
angle (angel) of the circle of the zodiac.
The phosphate of magnesia, in biochemic therapeutics, is
the remedy for all spasmodic impulsive symptoms. This salt
supplies the deficient worker or builder in such cases and thus
restores normal conditions. A lack of muscular force, or
nerve vigor, indicates a disturbance in the operation of the
heart cell-salt, magnesia phosphate, which gives the "Lion's
spring," or impulse, to the blood that throbs through the
heart.
[31]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Leo is ruled by the Sun, and the children of that celestial
sign are natural sun worshipers.
Gold must contain a small per cent of alloy or base metal
before it can be used commercially. Likewise the "Gold of
Ophir" Sun's rays, or vibration must contain a high potency
of the earth salt, magnesia, in order to be available for use in
bodily function Thus through the chemical action of the
inorganic (mineral and water) in the organic (Sun's rays and
ether) does the volatile become fixed, and the Word become
flesh.
Leo people consume their birth salts more rapidly than they
consume any of the other salts of the blood; hence they are
often deficient in magnesium. Crude magnesia is too coarse to
enter the blood through the delicate mucous membrane ab
sorbents, and must be prepared according to the biochemic
method before being taken into the blood.
Gems of Leo are ruby and diamond.
Astral colors, red and green.
The eleventh child of Jacob, Dinah, represents Leo and
means judged. Simon is the Leo disciple.
VIRGO: THE VIRGIN MARY
August 23 to September 23.
Virgin means pure. Mary, Marie, or Mare (Mar) means
water. The letter M is simply the sign of Aquarius, "The
Water Bearer."
Virgin Mary means pure sea, or water.
Jesus is derived from a Greek word, meaning fish. Out of
the pure sea, or water, comes fish. Out of woman's body
comes the "Word made flesh." All substance comes forth
from air, which is a higher potency of water.
All substance is fish, or the substance of Jesus.
This substance is made to say, "Eat, this is My body; drink,
this is My blood."
There is nothing from which flesh and blood can be made,
but the one universal air, energy, or Spirit, in which man has
his being.
All tangible elements are the effects of certain rates of
motion of the intangible and unseen elements. Nitrogen gas
is mineral in solution, or ultimate potency.
[32]
Virgo
Oil is made by the union of sulphate of potassium (potash)
with albuminoids and aerial elements.
The first element that is disturbed in the organism of those
born in the celestial sign Virgo is oil; this break in the function
of oil shows a deficiency in potassium sulphate, known in
pharmacy is Kali sulphate.
Virgo is represented in the human body by the solar plexus
and bowels, the solar plexus being the great receiving station
of energy from the back brain, while the bowels complete the
chemicalization of the food products ready to be assimilated
by the blood.
The letter X in Hebrew is Samech or Stomach. X, or cross,
means crucifixion, or change transmutation.
Virgo people are discriminating, analytical, and critical.
The microscope reveals the fact that when the body is in
health little jets of steam are constantly escaping from the
seven million pores of the skin. A deficiency in Kali sulph
molecules causes the oil in the tissue to thicken and clog these
safety valves of the human engine, thus turning heat and secre
tions back upon the inner organs, lungs, pleura, membrane of
nasal passages, etc. And does it not seem strange that medical
science, that boasts of such great progress, can invent no better
term than "bad cold" for these chemical results?
Kali sulph is found in considerable quantities in the scalp
and hair. When this salt falls below the standard, dandruff,
or eruptions, secreting yellowish, thin, oily matter, or falling
out of the hair, is the result.
Kali sulph is a wonderful salt, and its operation in the
divine laboratory of man's body, where it manufactures oil,
is the miracle of the chemistry of life.
Governing planet, Mercury.
Gems, pink jasper and hyacinth.
Astral colors, gold and black.
In Bible alchemy Virgo is represented by Joseph, the twelfth
son of Jacob, and means: To increase power, or "son of the
right hand."
Virgo corresponds to the disciple Bartholomew.
[33]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
LIBRA: THE LOINS
September 23 to October 23.
This alkaline cell-salt is made from bone ash or by neutral
izing orthophosphoric acid with carbonate of sodium.
Libra is a Latin word, meaning scales or balance. Sodium,
or Natrium phosphate holds the balance between acids and the
normal fluids of the human body.
Acid is organic and can be chemically split into two or more
elements, thus destroying the formula that makes the chemical
rate of motion called acid.
A certain amount of acid is always present in the blood,
nerve, stomach and liver fluids. The apparent excess of acid
is always due to a deficiency in the alkaline Libra salt.
Acid, in alchemical lore, is represented as Satan (Saturn),
while sodium phosphate symbols Christ (Neptune). An ab
sence of the Christ principle gives license to Satan to run riot
in the Holy Temple. The advent of Christ drives the evil out
with a whip of thongs. References to the temple in the figura
tive language of the Bible and New Testament always symbol
the human organism. "Know ye not that your bodies are the
Temple of the Living God?"
Solomon's temple is an allegory of the physical body of
man and woman. Soul-of-man's-temple the house, church,
Beth or temple made without sound of "saw or hammer."
Hate, envy, criticism, jealousy, competition, selfishness,
war, suicide and murder are largely caused by acid conditions
of the blood, producing changes by chemical poisons and
irritation of the brain cells, the keys upon which the soul plays
"Divine harmonies" or plays "fantastic tricks before high
heaven," according to the arrangement of chemical molecules
in the wondrous laboratory of the soul.
Without a proper balance of the Venus salt, the agent of
peace and love, man is fit for "treason, strategems and spoils."
The people of the world never needed the alkaline of Libra
salt more than they do at the present time, while wars and
rumors of wars strut upon the stage of life.
The Sun enters Libra September 23rd, and remains until
October 23rd.
Governing planet, Venus.
Gems, diamond and opal.
Astral colors are black, crimson, and light blue.
Libra is an air sign.
[34]
Libra
In Bible alchemy, Libra represents Reuben, the first son of
Jacob. Reuben means Vision of the Sun.
In the symbolism of the New Testament, Libra corresponds
to the disciple Peter.
Peter is derived from Petra, a stone or mineral.
"On thee, Peter (mineral), will I build my church;" viz.,
beth, house, body, or temple.
INFLUENCE OF SUN ON VIBRATION OF BLOOD
AT BIRTH
SCORPIO
October 23 to November 22.
From Scorpion to "White Eagle" may seem a very long
journey to one who has not learned the science of patience or
realized that time is an illusion of physical sense.
The zodiacal sign Scorpio is represented in human material
organism by the sexual functions.
The esoteric meaning of sex is based on mathematics, the
body being a mathematical fact. Sex in Sanscrit means Six.
"Six days of Creation" simply means that all creation, or
formation, from self-existing substance, is by and through the
operation of sex principle the only principle.
Three means male, father, the spirit of the male, the son;
this trinity forms or constitutes one pole of Being, Energy or
Life the positive pole.
The negative pole, female trinity; female spirit of mother
and daughter.
Thus two threes or trinities produce six or sex, the opera
tion of which is the cause of all manifestation. Those who
understand, fully realize the truth of the New Testament
statement, "There is no other name under heaven whereby
ye may be saved (materialized and sustained) except through
Jesus Christ and Him crucified." By tracing the words Jesus
and Crucify (also Christ) to their roots a wonderful world
of truth appears to the understanding.*
The possibilities of Scorpio people are boundless after they
have passed through trials and tribulations, viz.: crucifixion
or crossification.
'Explained in God-Man; The Word Made Flesh.
[35]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
One of the cell-salts of the blood, Calcarea sulphate, is the
mineral ("stone") that especially corresponds to the Scorpio
nature. Crude Calcarea sulphate is gypsum or sulphate of
lime.
While in crude form, lime is of little value; but add water,
and thus transmute it by changing its chemical formation, and
plaster of Paris is formed, a substance useful and ornamental.
Every person born between October 23 and November 22,
should well consider this wonderful alchemical operation of
his esoteric stone, and thus realize the possibilities in store
for him on his journey to the "Eyrie of the White Eagle."
Scorpio people are natural magnetic healers, especially after
having passed through the waters of adversity, since heat is
caused by the union of water and lime.
Scorpio is a water sign, governed by Mars. Mars is "a
doer of things," also fiery at times; therefore, it is well that
the Scorpio native take heed lest he sometimes "boil over."
In Bible alchemy, Scorpio is represented by Simeon, the
second son of Jacob. Simeon means "hears and obeys." In
the symbolism of the New Testament, Scorpio corresponds to
the disciple Andrew, and means to create or ascend.
The gems are topaz and malachite; astral colors, golden-
brown and black.
A break in the molecular chain of the Scorpio salt, caused
by a deficiency of that material in the blood, is the primal
cause of all the so-called diseases of these people. This dis
turbance not only causes symptoms called disease in physical
functions, but it disturbs the astral fluids and gray matter of
brain cells, and thereby changes the operation of mind into
inharmony. Sin means to lack or fall short; thus chemical
deficiencies in life's chemistry cause sin.
When man learns to supply his dynamo with the proper
dynamics, he will "wash away his sins with the blood of
Christ" blood made with the "White Stone."
Calcium sulphate should not be taken internally in crude
form; in order to be taken up by absorbents of mucous mem
brane, the lime salt must be triturated, according to the bio-
chemic method, up to third or sixth. By this method lime
may be rendered as fine as the molecules contained in grain,
fruit, or vegetables.
Blood contains three forms of lime: lime and fluorine for
[36]
Scorpio
Cancer sign; lime and phosphorus for Capricorn sign, and
lime and sulphur for Scorpio.
Lime should never be used internally below the third
decimal trituration.
THE CHEMISTRY OF SAGITTARIUS
November 22 to December 22.
The mineral or cell-salt of the blood corresponding to
Sagittarius is Silica.
Synonyms: Silicea, silici oxide, white pebble or common
quartz. Chemical abbreviation, Si. Made by fusing crude
silica with carbonate of soda; dissolve the residue, filter and
precipitate by hydrochloric acid.
This product must be triturated as per biochemic process
before using internally.
This salt is the surgeon of the human organism. Silica is
found in the hair, skin, nails, periosteum, the membrane cover
ing and protecting the bone, the nerve sheath, called neuri
lemma, and a trace is found in bone tissue. The surgical
qualities of silica lie in the fact that its particles are sharp
cornered. A piece of quartz is a sample of the finer particles.
Reduce silica to an impalpable powder and the microscope
reveals the fact that the molecules are still pointed and jagged
like a large piece of quartz rock. In all cases where it be
comes necessary that decaying organic matter be discharged
from any part of the body by the process of suppuration, these
sharp pointed particles are pushed forward by the marvelous
intelligence that operates without ceasing, day and night in
the wondrous human Beth, and like a lancet cut a passage to
the surface for the discharge of pus. Nowhere in all the
records of physiology or biological research can anything be
found more wonderful than the chemical and mechanical
operation of this Divine artisan.
The bone covering is made strong and firm by silica. In
cases of boils or carbuncle, the biochemist loses no time search
ing for "anthrax bacilli" or germs, nor does he experiment
with imaginary germ-killing serum; he simply furnishes nature
with tools with which the necessary work may be accomplished.
The Centaur of mythology is known in the "Circle of Beasts
[37]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
that worship before the Lord (Sun) day and night," as Sag
ittarius, the Archer, with drawn bow. Arrow heads are com
posed of flint, decarbonized white pebble or quartz. Thus
we see why Silica is the special birth salt of all born in the
Sagittarius sign. Silica gives the glossy finish to hair and
nails. A stalk of corn or straw of wheat, oats or barley
will not stand upright unless it contains this mineral.
Sagittarius people are generally swift and strong; and they
are prophetic look deeply into the future and hit the mark
like the archer. A noted astrologer once said: "Never lay
a wager with one born with the Sun in Sagittarius or with
Sagittarius rising in the east lest you lose your wealth."
The Sagittarius native is very successful in thought trans
ference. He (or she) can concentrate on a brain, miles dis
tant, and so vibrate the aerial wires that fill space that the
molecular intelligence of those finely attuned to Nature's har
monies may read the message.
Governing planet, Jupiter.
Gems, carbuncle, diamond and turquoise.
The astral colors are gold, red and green.
Sagittarius is a fire sign and is represented in Bible alchemy
by Levi, the third son of Jacob, meaning "joined or asso
ciated."
In the symbolism of the New Testament, Sagittarius corre
sponds to the disciple James, son of Alpheus.
*******
The Chicago Evening Post, Wednesday, August 19, 1914,
in commenting on "Signs of Wrath and Portents from the
Heavens," says among other things: "And in England today
are men with the modern scientific mind who say that we can
not disregard utterly the idea that the movements of the
heavenly bodies have their effect upon men."
CAPRICORN: THE GOAT OF THE ZODIAC
December 22 to January 21.
Circle means sacrifice, according to the Kabbala,the straight
line bending to form a circle.
Thus we find twelve zodiacal signs sacrificing to the Sun,
symbolized by the devotion and sacrificing of the twelve dis
ciples of Jesus.
[38]
Capricorn
Twelve months' sacrifice for a solar year.
Twelve functions of man's body sacrifice for the temple,
Beth or "Church of God" the human house of flesh.
Twelve minerals known as cell-salts sacrifice by opera
tion and combining to build tissue.
The dynamic force of these vitalized workmen constitute
the chemical affinities the positive and negative poles of
mineral expression.
The Cabalistic numerical value of the letters g, o, a, t, add
up twelve.
Very ancient allegories depict a goat bearing the sins of
Israelites into the wilderness.
In the secret mysteries of initiation into certain societies,
the goat is the chief symbol.
In alchemical lore the "Great Work" is commenced "in the
Goat" and is finished in the "White Stone." Biochemistry is
the "stone which the builders rejected," and furnishes the key
to all the mysteries and occultism of the allegorical Goat.
Those persons born between the dates December 22 and
January 21, come under the influence of the Sun in Capri
corn the Goat. Capricorn represents the great business
interests trusts and syndicates where many laborers are
employed. Thus Capricorn symbols the foundation and
framework of society the commonwealth of human interests.
The bones of the human organism represent the founda
tion stones and framework of the soul's temple (Solomon's
temple ) .
Bone tissue is composed principally of phosphate of lime,
known as Calcarea phosphate or Calcium phosphate. With
out a proper amount of lime no bone can be formed, and bone
is the foundation of the body.
A building must first have a foundation before the structure
can be reared. Thus we see why the "Great Work" com
mences in the Goat. Lime is white hence the "White Stone."
In the second chapter and seventeenth verse of Revelation
may be found the alchemical formula of the "White Stone."
"To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden
manna, and I will give a White Stone, and in the Stone a new
name written which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth
it."
In the mountains of India, it is said, a tribe dwells, the
priests of which claim that man's complete history from birth
to death is recorded in his bones. These people say the bones
[39]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
are secret archives, hence do not decay quickly as does flesh
and blood.
When the molecules of lime phosphate fall below the
standard, a disturbance often occurs in the bone tissue and the
decay of bone, known as caries of bone, commences. Phos
phate of lime is the worker in albumin. It carries it to bone
and uses it as cement in the making of bone.
So-called Bright's disease (first discovered in a man named
Bright) is simply an overflow of albumin via kidneys, due to
a deficiency of phosphate of lime.
When the Goat salt is deficient in the gastric juice and bile,
ferments arise from undigested foods; acids from the latter
find their way to synovial fluids in the joints of legs or arms or
hands, and often cause severe pains; but why the perfectly
natural chemical operation should be called rheumatism pass-
eth understanding.
Non-functional albumin, caused by a lack of lime phosphate,
is the cause of eruptions, abscesses, consumption, catarrh and
many so-called diseases.
But let us all remember that disease means not-at-ease, and
that the words do not mean an entity of any kind, shape, size,
weight or quality, but an effect caused by some deficiency of
blood material, and that only.
Phosphate of lime should never be taken in crude form It
must be triturated to sixth X, according to the biochemic
method, in milk sugar in order to be taken up by the mucous
membrane absorbents, and thus carried into the circulation.
Capricorn people possess a deep interior nature in which
they often dwell in the "solitude of the soul."
They scheme and plan and build air castles and really enjoy
their ideal world. If they are sometimes talkative, their
language seldom gives any hint of the wonderland of their
imagination. To that enchanted garden the sign, "No Thor
oughfare," forever blocks the way.
The Capricorn gems are white onyx and moonstone. The
astral colors are garnet, brown, silver-gray and black.
Capricorn is an earth sign.
In Bible alchemy, Capricorn represents Judah, the fourth
son of Jacob, and means "the praise of the Lord." In the
symbolism of the New Testament, Capricorn corresponds
to the disciple John.
[40]
Aquarius
THE SIGN OF THE SON OF MAN : AQUARIUS
January 21 to February 20.
O age of man! Aquarius,
Transmuter of all things base,
"Son of Man in the Heavens,
With sun-illumined face."
Our journey was long and weary,
With pain and sorrow and tears,
But now at rest in thy kingdom,
We welcome the coming years.
" Those born between the dates of January 21 and February
20 are doubly blest, and babies to be born during that period
for many years to come will be favored of the gods.
The solar system has entered the "Sign of the Son of
Man," Aquarius, where it will remain for over 2000 years.
According to planetary revolutions the Sun passes through
Aquarius once every solar year; thus we have the double in
fluence of the Aquarius vibration from January 21 to Feb
ruary 20.
Air contains seventy-eight per cent of nitrogen gas believed
by scientists to be mineral in ultimate potency. Minerals are
formed by the precipitation of nitrogen gas. Differentiation
is attained by the proportion of oxygen and aqueous vapor
(hydrogen) that unites with nitrogen.
A combination of sodium and chlorine forms the mineral
known as common salt. This mineral absorbs water. The
circulation or distribution of water in the human organism is
due to the chemical action of the molecules of sodium chloride.
Crude soda can not be taken up by mucous membrane
absorbents and carried into the circulation. The sodium
molecules found in the blood have been received from vegeta
ble tissue which drew these salts from the soil in high potency.
The mineral, or cell-salts, can also be prepared (and are pre
pared) in biochemic or homeopathic potency as fine as the
trituration of Nature's laboratory in the physiology of plant
growth. Then they are thoroughly mixed with sugar of milk
and pressed into tablets ready to be taken internally to supply
deficiencies in the human organism. A lack of the proper
amount of these basic mineral salts (twelve in number) is the
cause of all so-called disease.
Common table salt does not enter the blood, being too
coarse to enter the delicate tubes of mucous membrane ab
[41]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
sorbents, but this salt does distribute water along the intestinal
tract.
Aquarius is known in astrological symbols as "The Water
Bearer." Sodium chloride, known also as Natrium muriaticum,
is also a bearer of water, and chemically corresponds to the
zodiacal angle of Aquarius.
The term angle, or angel, of the Sun may also be used, for
the position of the Sun at birth largely controls the vibration
of blood.
So, then, we have sodium chloride as the "birth salt" of
Aquarius people.
The governing planets are Saturn and Uranus; the gems
are sapphire, opal and turquoise; the astral colors are blue,
pink and Nile green. Aquarius is an air sign.
In Bible alchemy Aquarius represents Dan, the fifth son of
Jacob, and means "judgment," or "he that judges." In the
symbolism of the New Testament, Aquarius corresponds to
the disciple James.
PISCES: THE FISH THAT SWIM IN THE PURE SEA
February 20 to March 21.
Nearly everyone knows that Pisces means fishes, but few
there be who know the esoteric meaning of fish. Fish in Greek
is Ichthus, which Greek scholars claim means "substance
from the sea."
Jesus is derived from the Greek word for fish; Mary, mare,
means water; therefore we see how the Virgin Mary, pure
sea, gives birth to Jesus, or fish. There are two things in the
universe Jesus and the Virgin Mary spirit and substance.
So much for the symbol or allegory.
From the earth viewpoint we say that the Sun enters the
zodiacal sign Pisces February 20 and remains until March 21.
This position of the Sun at birth gives the native a kind, lov
ing nature, industrious, methodical, logical and mathematical ;
sympathetic and kind to people in distress.
In the alchemy of the Bible we find that the sixth son of
Jacob, Naphthali, which means "wrestling of God," symbols
Pisces, for the Pisces natives worry and fret because they can
not do more for their friends or those in trouble.
[42]
Pisces
The phosphate of iron is one of the cell-salts of human
blood and tissue. This mineral has an affinity for oxygen,
which is carried into the circulation and diffused throughout
the organism by the chemical force of this inorganic salt.
The feet are the foundation of the body. Iron is the founda
tion of blood. Most diseases of Pisces people commence with
symptoms indicating a deficiency of iron molecules in the
blood; hence it is inferred that those born between the dates
February 20 and March 21, use more iron than do those born
in other signs.
Iron is known as the magnetic mineral, due to the fact that
it attracts oxygen. Pisces people possess great magnetic force
in their hands, and make the best magnetic healers.
Health depends upon a proper amount of iron phosphate
molecules in the blood. When these oxygen carriers are de
ficient, the circulation is increased in order to conduct a suffi
cient amount of oxygen to the extremities all parts of the
body with the diminished quantity of iron on hand. This
increased motion of blood causes friction, the result of which
is heat. Just why this heat is called fever is a conundrum;
perhaps because fever is from Latin fevre, "to boil out," but I
fail to see any relevancy between a lack of phosphate of iron
and "boiling out."
The phosphate of iron (Ferrum phosphate), in order to be
made available as a remedy for the blood, must be triturated
according to the biochemic method with milk sugar up to the
third or sixth potency in order that the mucous membrane
absorbents may take it up and carry it into the blood. Iron
in the crude state, like the tincture, does not enter the circula
tion, but passes off with the faeces, and is often injurious to
the intestinal mucous membrane.
The governing planet of this sign is Jupiter.
The gems are chrysolite, pink-shell and moonstone.
The astral colors are white, pink, emerald-green and black.
Pisces is a water sign.
In Bible alchemy, Pisces represents Naphthali, the sixth son
of Jacob, and means "wrestlings of God." In the symbolism
of the New Testament, Pisces corresponds to the disciple
Philip. The birth of Benjamin is given in that wonderful
allegory, the thirty-fifth chapter of Genesis. Benjamin
is,
therefore, the thirteenth child of Jacob.
[43]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
See article, "13, the Operation of Wisdom," in God-Man;
the Word Made Flesh.
"The heavens declare the glory of God ;
And the firmament sheweth his handiwork.
Day unto day uttereth speech,
And night unto night sheweth knowledge.
There is no speech nor language,
Where their voice is not heard.
Their line is gone out through all the earth,
And their words to the end of the world.
In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun,
Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber,
And rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race.
His going forth is from the end of the heaven,
And his circuit unto the ends of it;
And :here is nothing hidden from the heat thereof."
Psalms 19:1-6 Vs.
[44]
PART TWO
An Esoteric Analysis and Synthesis of the Zodiacal
Signs and Their Physio-Chemical Allocations
Together With
Additional Scientific Findings
BY
Inez Eudora Perry
[45]
INTRODUCTION TO PART TWO
In presenting the following findings, the author wishes to
say that she does so, not with fear and trembling but with the
strength of conviction which truth alone gives. It matters
little whether they are accepted or rejected. Into these pages
goes a knowledge of the chemical condition of the average
human brain, gained from sixteen years' experience along the
lines of health. So it is self-evident that a few earnest
students will realize the value of this information.
The author, however, has already received her own per
sonal reward for the years of investigation and research work.
All her life she has aspired for truth above all things. She
has aspired to know facts, to solve the problem of the old
injunction "Man, know thyself." This in itself became such
a joyous, fascinating occupation that it was like going out into
the green sanctuary of Nature and being alone with Nature's
God, the Spirit within one's self. And this, together with the
great appreciation manifested by the many earnest students
who have already accepted some of these truths, constitutes
an adequate reward.
Dr. Carey brought forth his mental and spiritual progeny,
the key whereby humanity may solve its chemical, physical and
mental problems, before the influx of the finer ethers which
are now permeating our atmosphere and endeavoring to
awaken dormant brain cells to action. Therefore, his in
valuable message was slow in being accepted. Now, however,
there is more and more interest being manifested. Part
One of this book will thus be read and studied with greater
appreciation.
The world is more ready to accept that which has previous
ly seemed absurd and impossible because of the quickening of
comprehension which is now going on. We are merging into
the atmosphere of the Aquarian Age. This means, both
astrologically and astronomically, that our entire solar system
is beginning to pass into the division of the universe which is
occupied by the sign Aquarius. Approximately 2160 years
are required for the transit.
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
As Aquarius is "the sign of the Son of Man" it deals not
only with humanity as a whole but with the real man within
man. The Son of Man, the Higher Self, is that real man, or
mankind made new.
There is a trend, then, a veritable cosmic urge that is
truly very definite and powerful. This is the reason back of,
and the cause of the appearance of all the "new" and un
usual ideas, happenings, fashions, inventions, etc. It is also
the cause of all of the terrible and abnormal crimes with which
the papers are constantly filled; the perversion of truth which
is everywhere being manifested. Nature and Nature's God
now demand an expansion of consciousness in man. This is
the beginning of a realization of the laws of God, their
acceptance, the practice of them, and the effort to climb
upward.
Thought is the father of action, and with individuals not
attuned to the Aquarian vibration actions are spasmodic, un
natural and thus negative and destructive. This is because
the high vibration and shorter etheric waves breathed into the
lungs do not find therein the materials capable of producing
the same vibration in the blood. If these materials were
present they would produce a corresponding wave length in
the blood and thus work harmoniously and constructively
under the Aquarian vibrations. Disorganization, disruption
and spasmodic reaction take place in the bodies of persons
chemically starved in those "mothers" or materials which
Father Spirit demands at this time. The Sacred Book
expresses it perfectly in these words: "Ye must make new
bottles for the new wine or the old bottles will burst." We
must reconstruct our bodies and brain cells with the desired
and required material, in order that they may be able to do the
work now demanded of them. Otherwise we will find the
fuse blowing out exactly as it does when the lamp and the
current do not correspond.
There must be, therefore, an endeavor to investigate new
(new only to this age) scientific findings. The greater the
aspiration for truth the- easier it will be. If you find joy and
satisfaction in the study of these pages I shall always be glad
and happy to learn of it and help you still further with any
additional explanation.
As this is the Aquarian Age, its spirit is back of all, and will
assist and protect those who speak the truth.
[48]
Chapter I
THE ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF ARIES
"(Gad) A troop shall overcome him, but he shall overcome at last."
N order to obtain facts, it is absolutely essential first
to trace to their origin the meanings of the words
^JL^used in expressing the problem under consideration.
Therefore, their etymology must be studied. This is the in
fallible key by means of which knowledge of anything may
be obtained.
In his book, The Study of Words, Richard Chenevix
Trench, D.D., quotes the following from an unmentioned
writer: "In a language like ours, where so many words are
derived from other languages, there are few modes of instruc
tion more useful or more amusing than that of accustoming
young people to seek for the etymology or primary meaning
of the words they use. There are cases in which more
knowledge of more value may be conveyed by the history of
a word than by the history of a campaign." To make the
foregoing statement more emphatic we would add that
accurate information is unobtainable otherwise.
Mr. Trench even more sympathetically states: "Many a
single word also is itself a concentrated poem, having stories
of poetical thought and imagery laid up in it. Examine it and
it will be found to rest on some deep analogy of things
natural and things spiritual, bringing those to illustrate and to
give an abiding form and body to these. For certainly in itself
there is no study which may be made at once more instructive
and entertaining than the study of the use, origin, and dis
tinction of words."
Elsewhere in his book he deplores the lack of interest in
that which is worth while, at the same time analyzing the
word "pastime."
He says, "The world, out of its own use of this word,
renders judgment against itself. For it is concerned with
amusements and pleasures which do not really satisfy the mind
AND KALI PHOS.
Genesis XLIX.
[49]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
and fill It with the sense of an abiding and satisfying joy; they
serve only, as this word confesses, to pass away the time,
to prevent it from hanging, an intolerable burden, on man's
hands; all which they can do at the best is to prevent men
from discovering and attending to their own internal poverty
and dissatisfaction and want."
So important is this subject that one more quotation from
his invaluable book must be made. He says: "I shall urge
on you something different, namely, that not in books only, but
often in words contemplated singly, there are boundless stores
of moral and historic truth, and no less of passion and
imagination, laid up that from these, lessons of infinite
worth may be derived, if only our attention is aroused to their
existence. I shall urge on you how well it will repay you to
study the words which you are in the habit of using or of
meeting, be they such as relate to highest spiritual things, or
our common words of the shop and market, and of all the
familiar intercourse of life. It will indeed repay you far
better than you can easily believe. I am sure that, for many
a young man, his first discovery of the fact that words are
living powers, are the vesture, yea, even of the body, which
thoughts weave for themselves, has been like the dropping
of scales from his eyes, like the acquiring of another sense,
or the introduction into a new world; he is never able to cease
wondering at the moral marvels that surround him on every
side, and ever reveal themselves more and more to his gaze."
The above statements are true. A New World verily ap
pears to the student of words the world of Knowledge. For
words, as well as letters and numbers, are the containers and
the expressions of definite values. The reason satisfying in
formation given herein has been obtained by the study of
words.
Because the sun rises in the east, bringing with it light and
heat, it has from time immemorial been termed the creator,
and each nation and people has had its own revered, yet inti
mate name for this giver of life.
There are two periods in a year when the days and nights
are of equal lengths, and they are termed equinoxes. The
first, occuring on March twenty-first, is the Spring equinox;
exactly six months later we have the Fall equinox.
The Sun, then, crossing the equinoctial line, or equator,
on the twenty-first of March, is said to bring the first day of
[50]
Aries and Kali Phos
Spring, for there is an awakening, a spring-ing up and there
fore a resurrection of all Nature. Indeed, very, very few real
ize anything at all of the sacred out-pouring, a flood-tide of
heavenly power, of spiritual electricity which charges not only
the earth but all human beings who are able to receive it.
Each human being is a battery, an aggregation of cells, and
the law governing its charging is exactly the same as that with
which electricians are familiar. It must have the necessary ma
terial to attract electricity, the proper kind and the right quan
tity. A knowledge of the cell-salts, such as is contained in
Schuessler's Biochemistry, solves the problem.
Few are so dull as to escape entirely the glamour and glory
of the days when the first faint misty green appears, when
mating birds
fly
hither and thither, and virgin earth prepares
to pour out her bountiful gifts that man may be fed from her
bosom.
But what does
it
mean to those who sense its approach and
to whom its arrival brings keenest joy and
a
deep and abid
ing satisfaction? They are being resurrected, for their minds
are actually expanding under the influence of that same God-
power; the brain substance
is
being acted on by Cosmic Elec
tricity outpoured from the cerebrum of the Grand Man.
This
is
the time, then, to begin one's labors, for the
charged battery must begin to work to be utilized. Would
that humanity could realize this mighty fictl But human
batteries are functioning poorly, the currents are weak, the
cells actually corroded. The great reservoir of unlimited
electrical power
is
ever present
in
the universe Spirit
is
never deficient. The trouble lies only
in
the human battery.
It
can not contact what
it
has no power to attract. This
is
the
mysterious chemical secret that has been hidden from man
by
his own ignorance, and
it
is
this secret which this chapter will
reveal, for
it
is
Kali phos which
is
the casket that holds this
priceless gem.
The terrific impetus back of all natural phenomena at this
time
is
the reason that this period of the year
is
termed Spring.
The rabbit
is
one of the symbols of Spring and of Easter, as
it
jumps or springs
in
moving about. The story of the universe
and of man has been brought down through the ages under
many forms, among these being animal symbols. Those born
at this time of the year usually walk with
a
springing step.
At this season we find the Sun actually springing or climbing
[51]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
up into the heavens until it reaches its highest point, that of
the Summer solstice. This is the longest day of the year. The
Sun is said to be at its greatest declination, resting, as it were,
before going on its journey, but pausing to accomplish some
thing special. The date is approximately June twenty-first.
Six months later we have the Winter solstice, when the sun
reaches its lowest point, and on December twenty-first, approx
imately, again appears to rest. The Summer solstice
is,
there
fore, ninety degrees away from the Spring equinox, and the
same number of degrees from the Fall equinox; while the
Winter solstice
is
ninety degrees from both the Spring and
Fall equinoxes. These facts are very important to remember
and must become fixed
in
the mind, as these four points con
stitute the cardinal cross of Nature and of the human body as
well. The signs having to do with these points of the cross are
Aries, Cancer. Libra and Capricorn.
Signs that pre ninety degrees away from each other are said
to be square. This
is
also an important point to fix
in
the mind
in
order to read one's chart correctly. The word square
is
used for the same reason that both practical and theoretical
Masons employ it. When understood, the problem of squaring
one's circle
is
solved; for the four signs of one's cross form
four squares In making the bodily correction represented by
each square one automatically eliminates the cross, and squares
the circle. This constitutes the great work.
Truly, this
is
the cross upon which each one
is
crucified.
And most emphatically
is
it
a
cross
of
matter, a chemical
cross. The story of each one's individual cross will be given
in
a
forthcoming book on The Biochemic System
of
Body Build
ing and Astro-Chemical Analysis.
The Spring equinox, therefore,
is
the return or springing
up of creative energy, while the Fall equinox
is
the falling or
going down, the decreasing or diminishing of the power of the
sun or energy. Autumn
is
derived from the Latin audits
meaning enriched, thus bringing out the idea of harvest time,
the gathering in of the increase of the year.
The out-pouring time of Nature takes place
in
what
is
termed the first month of the astrological year, which begins
March twenty-first, and lasts until April twenty-first. During
this time the sun
is
transiting or passing through the constella
tion of Aries, the Lamb or Ram of the zodiac.
It
is
really
termed the April month or sign, as
it
covers two weeks of the
latter and only one of the former.
[52]
Aries and Kali Phos
The process going on during this period in Nature and in
man is again brought to our attention by the interpretation
of the word April. It is derived from the Latin aperio and
means to uncover, to lay bare, to expose to view, therefore to
open, to render accessible. Thus the great creative power
of Nature is rendered accessible at this time, which is not only
a time but a certain definite place in Nature and in man's body.
From time immemorial the signs of the zodiac have been
allocated with the parts of the human body. Whatever other
interpretations were given, the physiological application came
first.
Astrology deals with the body (anatomy) of the Grand
Man (the universe) and by analogy, with the body of man.
This is a fact that has for the most part been lost sight of,
because the mighty science of the macrocosm and the micro
cosm has been perverted into fortune telling. No wonder so
few are interested in it; no wonder so many laugh at and
deride
it,
for they have good reason to. Astrologers, so-
called, are for the most part not working for or with Uranus.
However, the number of those who are doing so
is
slowly and
surely increasing.
One of the oldest and most common forms in which the
signs of the zodiac have been brought down through the ages
is
in
the figure of man, with the glyph of Aries and
a
gambol
ing or up-springing Lamb above his head. On the right, from
the neck,
a
line or arrow points to
a
reclining bull and the
symbol of Taurus; on the left from the shoulder
is
a
pointer
to two seated children and the symbol of Gemini, and so on to
the two fish crossed underneath the feet. The latter gives us
the story of the Cross and the religion or scientific story of the
fishermen, irrefutable evidence of the one purpose of astrol
ogy, which
is
to give mankind complete information relative to
the process, chemical and physiological, whereby perfection
and illumination may be attained.
From an understanding, then, of the word Aries, the first
or head sign of the zodiac, we obtain its physiological alloca
tion.
It
is
of Latin derivation and means ram. The Latin
lexicon also gives battering-ram, prop or beam as other deriv
atives, all having the same basic idea. The ram, as an animal,
is
known to butt or bat with its head, when engaged
in
conflict.
But the word ram comes to us from the Sanskrit, and means
[53]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
high. Ram in a Hindu name is evidence that one bearing it is
of high caste.
The top of the head is the highest part of the body, and man
differentiates himself from an animal by elevating his head, or
walking upright. In Hebrew, the top of the head is named
calvary, for its literal meaning is bare skull. It is truly the
place of ascension.
There are many references in the Scriptures to lofty eleva
tions. One says: "Look toward the holy mountain from
whence cometh thy help." As the Bible and all ancient and
sacred writings are physiological, the above quotation refers
to the upper brain or cerebrum, in which is the marvelous
All-Seeing Eye, or center of understanding.
The brain of man is the organ of mind. If the latter
functions well, he is helped and all is well, for he helps him
self by doing that which brings about the best result. There
are also many statements in this same book calling our atten
tion to the Eye Single and the All-Seeing Eye, also the Candle
of the Lord and the Imperishable Sacred Lamp.
Each nation and people has had its own name for that
period of the year when the Sun passes through the sign of
the Ram. The Egyptians termed it the God Amen-Menthu,
the Lamb of Gad, which "taketh away the sins of the world,"
Gad being one of the twelve tribes of Israel.
The sun in the sign of the Ram was looked on by the ancients
as the God Aries. The Lamb of the Mysteries of Atys; the
Lamb of the Festival of Cybele; the White Lamb of the Tro
jans; the Redemption of the Lost Sheep; The Golden Fleece
of Jason and the Argonauts; the Lord of Hosts. As Aries
represents the Vernal or Spring equinox, when the Sun crosses
the line from Pisces, the sign of the Fishes, into the sign of
the Ram, it
is,
as Dr. Wakeman Ryno says, "crucified or cross-
ified on the equinoctial line which constitutes the redemption
of earth,
a
saving power; the ice and cold winter disappear,
water flows, the buds and blossoms start, and the earth
is
rejuvenated the sin of cold winter
is
taken away."
Allorating this with the cerebro-spinal system, with which
Aries deals, an outpouring of energy takes place, flowing
downward into the form to rebuild and rejuvenate it. This
is
exactly what occurs in the body of the Grand Man.
It
was
termed "the sign of Baal Gad by the ancients, or Lord of
[54]
Aries and Kali Phos
Felicity, because he presided over the happiest and most pros
perous time of the year."
The word Gad is derived from the Hebrew, and the word
sun from the Coptic, according to Dr. Taylor, and both mean
the same thing. "God or Gad, being the never-translated
name in the ancient Tsabaism, or star-worship of the con
stellation of the Ram, or Lamb of God, the Rama, the
Great, the Elevated," and thus corresponding to the human
head.
The Greek word Thebes means head. There was an old
city by that name, the capital of Ancient Egypt. It was the
seat of marvelous learning and the greatest art, and was said
to have been destroyed by Alexander. This part of the human
anatomy, the cerebrum,
is,
indeed, the storehouse of man, but
it
is
the super-conscious and not the subconscious, as has been
so long erroneously taught.
By studying the sacred and secret writings of all nations
and peoples, one realizes that Easter was not new to the
Piscean Age, nor to the supposed dawn of the Christian re
ligion, but belongs to all time and to all peoples, for
it
signi
fies both
a
cosmic and
a
microcosmic process, literally
a
re
newal of life. An understanding of this fact, constituting, as
it
does,
a
logical and wholly natural explanation,
is
one of the
first steps necessary to an entirely new viewpoint of the Bible.
Realization of this eliminates all controversy which at the
present time
is
becoming more and more pronounced. Bishops
and ministers alike are unable to give logical and satisfactory
elucidation of the Scriptures, and this has largely constituted
the reason so many people remain away from church. Human
ity
is
beginning to think for itself, for this
is
the age of
knowing, not blind belief.
Thus we find from the foregoing the meaning of the
opening month of the year,
in
man as well as
in
Nature. We
find there
is
a
perfect system of analysis, synthesis and alloca
tion which links up space, time, activity, and mankind, yes,
even the most secret part of the body. And, as Dr. Wakeman
Ryno says: "What silly trash this would be (quoting from
Daniel 7:9) taken exactly as
it
reads; what
a
beautiful illus
tration
it
becomes when taken as an astronomical allegory of
the Sun and Moon
in
their passage through the constellation
of Aries the Ram as the opener of the growing months of the
year after the winter; 'the judgment was set (the equinox
equal) the books were opened' (the Spring)."
[55]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Let us now consider another science, that particular branch
of physiology which is termed embryology. Here we at once
find a perfect allocation with Nature's work in the Spring.
The cerebrospinal system is the first part of the organism de
veloped and from it the whole form materializes. The cere
brum and cord constitute most truly The Tree of Life, for
they bear or produce the rest of the body. The cerebro-spinal
system has, as ancient Sanskrit writings inform us, "its roots
in heaven and its branches in the earth."
The cerebrum is man's potential or embryological heaven,
his hcave-N , for his work is to perfect this heaved-up place.
The letter N is the key to the secret process. In Hebrew it
literally means Jesus.
This statement constitutes the subject matter of another
book, God-Man, the Word Made Flesh, soon to be re-pub
lished with much additional information. It
is,
however, im
possible to leave earnest searchers for truth without some
satisfaction, and for the enlightenment of such the explanation
is
:
Jesus
is
a
germ of life,
a
psycho-physical germ-cell, just
as real, definite and tangible as any other physical germ,
although more ethereal and delicate, the fruit, progeny and
product of
a
chemically perfect, therefore
a
highly refined
and purified body. An imperfect and impure body can not
produce or create this perfect thing. As the Bible states,
in
Job 14:4: "Who can bring
a
clean thing out of an unclean?
Not one."
When that little one, that leaven which shall "leaven the
whole lump" or body of man,
is
at last created
in
the manger
(or solar plexus),
it
follows
a
path planned for it.
It
enters
the Jordan, and ascends by this River of God to the cerebrum
via certain glands. Then, indeed, will N have been added to
the brain, which, as the poet Milton has said, "Is its own place
and in itself can make
a
hell of heaven,
a
heaven of hell."
The roots of the Tree of Life are three nerves which ascend
from the fructified germ cell. These later on form five, and
constitute the outline of the five ventricles of the brain. The
optic thalami
is
the matrix from which the roots branch out
and upward, and
it
is
also the center from which springs the
spinal cord, that sacred Euphrates (River of God), which
goes down to water the earth. From
it,
buddings form on
either side, and thus the right and left sympathetic nerves
grow, constituting the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil.
[56]
Aries and Kali Phos
Much more can be written on the above subject, but it will
be fully considered in the book God-Man, the Word Made
Flesh. The above statements serve to prove, however, that
astrology and physiology are inseparable, and that in the for
mer we will eventually find every physiological mystery re
vealed.
Aries, then, relates to the cerebrum and cord, which con
stitute the Father, the Most High, the Creator or Progenitor
of the body, otherwise God and the River of God. "And a
river went out of Eden." Therefore the head may be termed
truly the Fountain-Head of Life. In the New Testament the
River Jordan is the same as the Euphrates, and means de
scender, for the River of God does come down from above,
our physiological heaven.
Genesis, the first book of the Old Testament, deals with
the creation of man's body. The first chapter has to do with
the formation of the animal cell or lowest form of life, the
amoeba or germ cell, without which no human or other form
is created. It does not refer to the actual animals themselves.
In the light of this explanation the second chapter is logical
and not contradictory, for the animals (animal cells) are
brought together into man. Man's body is an aggregate of
animal cells.
"There is a spirit in man, and the inspiration (inbreath
ing) of the Almighty giveth it understanding." Differentia
tion between forms in the different kingdoms of Nature de
pends on breath. The plant breathes and polarizes itself
as the plant. The animal breathes, and its breath takes on
a certain vibration, thus polarizing it as the animal or negative
breath (ani-mal) .
But the breath of man is polarized as that of a human being,
and as he was formed in the likeness and image of God, he
possesses something more than the animal. As the rate of
vibration of the cells of his body increases in proportion to the
result of purification and obedience to God's laws of right liv
ing, he no longer desires, but inspiration takes its place.
Space can not be given in this chapter to go into detail
relative to the discovery I have recently made that the
Erotes are the keres of life in man. However, this much must
be said: the name given to the upper brain or cerebrum con
tains the secret of life, for cere is kere in Greek, and it is to
[57]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
the literature and sculpture of that classic race we must turn
for indisputable information relative to the source of life.
The skull is the Cup of Life and contains the Essence of
Life, and we find much information in ancient writings relative
to it. In Ha Idra Rabba Quadisha, or The Greater Holy
Assembly, we find many statements. In fact the entire work
deals intimately with it. From it the following have been
selected as examples: "Therefore He carved out (that
is,
hollowed out)
a
space which He might flow in," meaning that
the Creator formed the skull,
a
bowl,
in
which precipitated
Spirit might accumulate, thus creating the cerebrum or high
brain.
Again: "The Absolute desire within himself to create the
essence
of
light." The word essence
is
derived from the Latin
verb esse, which means to be. Therefore essence means the
substance
of
being, or the material necessary for existence.
Light means life and also Spirit, for the latter produces both
light and life. A deficiency
in
any of these means deficiency
in
all.
The great majority of people
in
the world have sufficient
Spirit to keep them going for only
a
few years. Spirit or
Father works with mother or material. One must equal the
other for perfection to exist.
In Chapter IV we read: "Concerning the Dew or Moisture
of the Brain, of the Ancient One, or Macroprosophus
:
And
from that skull distilleth
a
Dew upon him which is external,
and filleth His head daily." "And from that Dew which flow-
eth down from his head, the dead are raised up
in
the world
to come." "Concerning which
is
written, Cant.
V
:2
:
My head
is
filled with dew." "And by that Dew are nourished the holy
supernal ones." "And this
is
the manna which
is
prepared for
the just
in
the world to come."
What an astounding mass of information we have here.
We find that macroprosophus
is
the ancient name for the cere
brum, the spiritual brain, the actual Father or Creator. Also
that Dew
is
a
very old term for brain substance, and
a
very
fitting one, since dew
is
a
moist precipitation from above,
found on the earth or ground. The words "and filleth His
head daily" link up directly with the Bible statement
in
John
6:58: "I am the living bread which cometh down from
Heaven." And again
:
"Give us this day our daily bread." As
the earth (mother) attracts the dew or Spirit, so each person
[58]
Aries and Kali Phos
is responsible for the creation of his or her own bread. Chem
istry alone explains this, which we will consider later.
And how wonderful the promise accompanying the follow
ing: "And from that dew which floweth down (into the
body) from His head the dead are raised to life in the world
to come."
World means the body, the earth world below the heaven
world, in other words, the skull and the torso. This explains
why we have deteriorated through the years. We have been
really dying daily instead of becoming more alive. There has
been insufficient dew or brain esse to feed the body not
enough "daily bread." This means both physical and spiritual
starvation. The body is in itself a graveyard, because it con
tains so many dead bodies corpuscles.
We are also given another word having the same mean
ing manna, for its interpretation in the Hebrew language is
man making. The manna, or heavenly bread, forms man and
also feeds him.
Please read the following until it is indelibly etched upon
your mind : The brain or cerebrum is the first and most im
portant gland in the body. The essence it creates flows
through all the glands, but each gland consecutively differen
tiates its fluid. It is of a neuter or neutral nature when first
formed, and would continue to be so if mankind did not take
from it or rob it. We object to having some of our posses
sions stolen from us by thieves, but never dream that the worst
thief is the one who robs himself of his most precious treasure
the golden essence of life. This
is,
indeed, the treasure that
we are commanded to "lay up
in
heaven."
To any who become impatient for the chemical allocation,
let me say with all kindness that
it
can never be understood
unless all the foregoing statements are linked up with
it
indis-
solubly.
It
is
the hidden or esoteric which alone throws light
on the exoteric.
Of the optic thalamus the Kabbala informs us: "Therefore
it
is
called the open eye, the holy eye, the excellent eye, the
eye of Providence, the eye which sleepeth not, neither slumber-
eth, the eye which
is
the guardian of all things, the eye which
is
the subsistence of all things."
Do we not say "Yes,
I
see" when we understand or get
a
point? Truly we are spiritually blind when we cognize but
little. And v ho
is
to blame? None but ourselves.
[59]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
The organ referred to above, the optic thalamus, occupies
the central portion of Aries, or the third ventricle to be
correct, the middle decan (ten degrees). While the sign as
a whole is ruled by Mars (energy) it has a co-ruler, the Sun.
Thus the Sun is exalted in Aries, meaning that, at last, the
inner sun, or thalamus, is receiving what has been so long kept
from it. The Lord is now truly receiving the bread and wine
for the supper in the upper chamber.
How much the well-being of the lower brain or cerebellum
depends on the cerebrum is also explained in the Greater Holy
Assembly (which in itself refers to the upper brain, the place
where All Things, Essence, are assembled) : "Since there is not
subsistence in the inferior brain except by the preservation of
the superior brain," cerebrum. We must here quote from
Malachi, third chapter, eighth verse: "Will a man rob God?
Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed
thee? In tithes and offerings."
As the general interpretation of money is that which serves
as a common medium of exchange or measure of value in
trade, we find its figurative origin in the brain substance of
man. It is in very truth his most precious treasure, the mental
rule or medium by which he measures values and makes ex
changes in his earthly (bodily) dealings. It is truly the coin of
the realm.
This is further borne out by the ancient interpretation of
Mercury, interpreted as mind, and physiologically as brain
and nerves. From its root we obtain the word merchandise.
Mercury is said to rule trade, for trading is done by means of
merchandise 01 money. The brain substance is the merchan
dise or money which, continually laid up or restored, becomes
an ever increasing asset which actually produces for us more
than compound interest. But if the principal is drawn on con
stantly, through sexual excesses or other forms of depletion,
there is no possible means by which any interest can accrue.
Conservation indeed makes for efficiency. In ancient days an
image of Mercury was placed at the cross-roads to point the
way for travelers. Mental treasures are the only ones in
capable of being stolen by any but ourselves. The mind
travels, and is supported on all its journeys by the money it
possesses.
In their sculptures the Greeks have left to posterity much
that is invaluable. The caduceus borne aloft by the hand of
[60]
Aries and Kali Phos
Mercury is used today as the symbol of healing by the
American and British medical corps, but who can say how
many of its members have even the faintest conception of its
real meaning.
The word caduceus is derived from the verb cado, meaning
TO FALL. Therefore the whole story of the FALL and
RISE of man is contained in
it,
for the winged pole repre
sents the cerebro-spinal system; the pole, the spine, and the
two wings are the two hemispheres of the brain or the Tree of
Life, while the two serpents twined around
it
are the right and
left sympathetic systems, the Tree of Knowledge of Good and
Evil, and also the two thieves.
The motor system represented by these nerves,
in
its present
deficient and hence imperfect condition, has deteriorated and
been perverted into an e-motional system. And this
is
the
condition of humanity in general. E-motion means
a
waste
of motion,
a
lack of conservation. All unnecessary motion
constitutes waste, and when the nervous system
is
so depleted
that there
is
no control over
it,
one
is
said to be uncontrolled
or carried away by emotion. Where perfection exists no
emotion will manifest, and
by
this
is
not meant spasmodic
control, but harmony. One does not need to exclaim, to weep,
to shout or to jump about to express what one thinks but
the eyes and face can express deep sympathy and under
standing.
To prove that the Hindus know of
a
Tree of Life we find
in
their literature the following: "The fruit and sap of the
Tree of Life bestows immortality." Among the most ancient
traditions of the Hindus
is
that of the Tree of Life called
Soma
in
Sanskrit, the juice of which imparts immortality.
Their legend of Elysium or Paradise says: "In the sacred
mountain Meru, which
is
perpetually clothed
in
the golden
rays of the sun, and whose lofty summit reaches into heaven,
no sinful man can exist.
It
is
guarded by
a
dreadful dragon.
It
is
adorned with many celestial plants and trees, and
is
watered by four rivers which thence separate and flow to the
four chief directions." These rivers correspond
in
number
to those given
in
Genesis.
When all students realize that mind can not function without
a
brain, and the latter
is
not formed unless the necessary
material
is
present
it
will at last be understood that both Spirit
[61]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
and matter are absolutely necessary in order to accomplish
healing.
The word healing has not been understood, for it means
to be made whole, perfect, entire. We may be helped in many
ways and by many things, but to be healed means that all the
work necessary for perfection has been completed. The me
chanic gets busy with the machine that is not running properly,
removes old parts, and puts in new. The human body is the
only machine which has the power to rebuild itself daily, and
will do so when the needed material is supplied. There are
many more references in Sacred Writings to manna, dew,
honey, nectar and ambrosia, food of the gods, elixir of
life, sacred Soma juice, Amritam or amrita, all referring to
the creative esse or brain substance.
Eliphas Levi, in his work on Transcendental Magic, says:
"The human head is formed upon the model of the celestial
spheres; it attracts and radiates, and in the conception of a
child this is what is first formed and first manifests. Hence
the head is subject in an absolute manner to astral influence,
and evidences its several attractions by its diverse protuber
ances. The final word of phrenology is to be found, therefore,
in scientific and purified astrology."
We find much in the above quotation that Aries, the upper
brain, is a celestial sphere, that it corresponds to heaven and is
therefore man's heaven. The Scriptures substantiate this by
saying, "The kingdom of heaven is within you." Therefore,
within Aries are all of the lights, planets or rates of vibration,
in other words gods or ruling powers. And it is these which
link up with, receive vibrations from, and are affected by, the
planets or heavenly bodies without. If the vibrations set up in
the head are too slow, because of chemical deficiencies, and
therefore unable to respond to those perfect etheric waves
from the celestial head or head of the Grand man, then symp
toms arise which are the visible manifestation of inharmony
and dis-ease.
Not only does the shape of the head bear evidence of this,
as Eliphas Levi states, but everything representing the present
status of the individual is indelibly etched upon the subtle
cere-brum or brain esse. For the Spirit brings with it the
photographic plate of its existence in its former physical body
as it impregnates with its Spirit the ova which is at the same
time being impregnated by the animal spermatozoa.
[621
Aries and Kali Phos
It is to be hoped that there will be astrologers who will
appreciate Mr. Levi's statement relative to "a scientific and
purified astrology," for it deals with the mind and body of
man.
A study of the word cere-brum gives us the following: cere
means wax, and from the same root we have the word cere-al
or seed. The letter Beth in Hebrew means womb or matrix of
creation. The rest of the word is a Latin neuter ending, signi
fying that the word has a neuter meaning. Truly is the cere
bral substance of a neutral nature, as it contains or consists
of all things. The English explanation of the word wax used
as a verb means to assume, by degrees, a specified state or
condition, and this is true of the brain as an organ.
Wax is a substance secreted from the abdominal rings of
bees, and possesses properties which render it a most con
venient medium for preparing figures and models. It melts
at low heat and takes the minutest impressions. It sets and
hardens at such temperature that no ordinary climatic changes
affect its form, even when cast in thin laminae. Thus we see
why the brain substance is termed wax-like, for electricity,
that needle of thought or Spirit, must have a subtle substance
upon which to etch its patterns, otherwise termed convolutions.
In the Sanskrit literature, Brahmarandhra is Spirit or
the bee. Therefore the wax of the brain substance is the excre
tion of that Spiritual Bee, and truly is it filled with what the
Bee produces, the Honey of Life. This links up directly with
the Bible statement in reference to "the land flowing with milk
and honey," and to which those who obey God's laws are
promised a safe return, a veritable return to the Garden of
Eden within one's self.
The word cere-al deals with seed, which is a wax-like
glutenous substance, and the source of all life. In Greek
mythology the goddess (female refers to substance or
material) Ceres was the daughter (product) of Saturn and
Ops (meaning the sower of seed and the earth in which seed
is planted), and thus refers to the process of production, or,
as Greek literature informs us, to agriculture, which means to
till a field.
The Bible states that, "man purchases a field (body) with
thirty pieces of silver," and the same idea was brought out
by the ancients in their statements relative to the heavenly
bull (the sun in Taurus) plowing the earth. The Adam man
[63]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
(Taurus) signifies Spirit cabined and confined in an animal
body (bull), which latter plows the earth blindly in rage, or
yoked to reason (Aries) cultivates the soil (mineral elements)
and thus re-creates himself. In doing this the Adam man is
eliminated and only one manifests God-man.
In order to link up chemically with the sign Aries, we must
again repeat that it
is,
astrologically, the first of the three
fire signs. Therefore
it
has to do with the first manifestation
or appearance of life, Spirit confined within the physical vehi
cle, and especially
in
a
particular part, its own house. Here
it
is
possible for it to perform its own particular task.
Aries, then,
is
the house of God, or the Spirit
in
man.
It
houses or contains the brain, the organ of thought.
If the mind
is
able to function clearly
it
will throw light on
every subject
it
will illuminate and thus reveal all things to
man. The only material which
is
so chemically constituted
that
it
has the power to produce light or fire,
is
Kali phos, or
potassium phosphate.
It
produces the highest rate
of
vibration
of any of the twelve basic mineral elements of the body.
Here
it
must be explained why there are not sixteen con
sidered. The four additional, which are oxygen, hydrogen,
nitrogen and carbon are not minerals. Their presence
in
the
body depends entirely on the presence of the twelve minerals.
For instance, we do not consider oxygen, for its presence
in
the
body depends entirely on the Ferrum or iron content of the
blood. This wonderful magnetic salt
is
the chemical attractor
of oxygen and
is
its only means of entering the body.
It
is
equally true that the quantity of oxygen one
is
able to inspire
depends wholly on the amount of iron
in
the blood stream.
Therefore,
it
is
unnecessary to consider this gas as
a
constitu
ent of the body, for
it
will take care of itself when the blood
is
supplied with iron.
Let us return, then, to our consideration of this most won
derful material, Kali phos.
It
is
the mater-izl or mother
(mater
is
Latin for mother) of light, for
it
contacts and links
up with the invisible fire
in
Nature, and actually harnesses
it
within the human body. As
it
produces
a
higher rate of vibra
tion than any other salt,
it
is
proof that the physical body can
respond with safety to no higher rate.
Therefore,
if
the body
is
subjected to the vibrations of
radium or those of X-ray, the cells of the body receiving them
will be burned. As
it
has been stated by physicians that this
[64]
Aries and Kali Phos
ray will kill living cancer cells it is absolutely true that it will
also destroy healthy cells by burning. It is well known that
scientists who spend their lives experimenting with both
radium and X-rays are very low in vitality and, in many in
stances, suffer from cancer. Their own cells have been burned,
and putrify after burning.
Potassium must be used as a healing agent instead, in all
three of its forms or combinations, namely, Kali phos, Kali
mur, and Kali sulph, together with its opposite pole salt,
Ferrum or iron. Thus there will be plenty of oxygen for the
fire of purification to consume.
In the study of practical chemistry, we find that when some
of this potassium salt is thrown on water, it instantly generates
such a powerful electrical current that the hydrogen is
separated from the oxygen, takes fire and burns with its char
acteristic violet flame in the released oxygen. Thus the two
gases hydrogen and oxygen disappear. They have returned
into the invisible, having been chemically released. If the im
agination is active, it is easy to picture in the mind's eye (the
optic thalamus) the inverse operation, the process whereby
the Great Chemist and Architect of the Universe invisibly
unites or forges the two gases, oxygen and hydrogen, and pre
cipitates them in the form of water. The unification is done
by electricity, the hidden fire.
Greek mythology tells us of the mighty Vulcan who forges
the thunderbolts. Indeed, that literature is a compilation of
scientific facts relative to nature and man, transmitted to us
in beautiful and poetic language. The Bible contains the same
facts but in noble and stately prose. Truly there is only one
story of importance, the story of the process whereby human
ity may ascend from the depths to the heights perfection.
Potassium is a soft, brilliant, bluish-white metal melting at
sixty-two and five-tenths degrees to a liquid resembling mer
cury. In astrology Mercury is "the Messenger of the Gods"
or ruling powers. Therefore we see how applicable the com
parison
is,
for potassium
is
truly the food by which the gods,
or gray matter, are nourished.
The sensory nerves are the wires connected with the great
generator of electrical energy, the cerebrum, the house of God
or Aries. These ramify throughout the entire body, supply
ing electricity whereby all of its work
is
done.
It
is
important to remember, that not only does this electri
[65]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
cal system run the body, but it is actually the subtle substance
with which thinking is done. For electricity is both energy
and substance, although unseen by our eyes, which are in
capable of responding to this high rate of vibration as yet.
As potassium is a carrier of fire, perhaps it will be well to
explain, at this point, what this research work has revealed
relative to carbon-monoxide poison. Since the advent of the
automobile a new cause of death has been added to the many
already tabulated, and the newspapers frequently state that
so-and-so was found dead in his car, the motor running and
the garage doors closed, thus shutting out the purifying oxy
gen. As chemistry states, potassium has a tendency to unite
directly with carbon-monoxide to produce a dangerously ex
plosive body It is my belief therefore that the sensory cells of
the brain expand violently and thus burst, causing death.
The spectrum of potassium is characterized by two sharply
denned lines, one in the red and the other in violet. The wave
length of the former is 0.0007680, and that of the latter
0.0004095. As red-violet or true magenta is the color of
Aries, the above is conclusive proof that the potassium of
Aries and the iron of Pisces forge together the closing links
in the zodiacal circle of life. (See article on allocation of
color with the zodiac elsewhere in this book).
In Sir Thomas Vaughan's works (sixteenth century) trans
lated by A. E. Waite, the earnest student will find a mine of
mineral wealth. He says: "Within this fantastic circle (the
head) stands a Lamp, and it typifies the Light of Nature.
This is the Secret Candle of God, which He hath tinned in
the elements: it burns and is not seen, for it shines in a dark
place. Every natural body is a kind of black lantern ; it carries
this Candle within
it,
but the light appears not;
it
is
eclipsed
with the grossness of matter. The ejects of this light are
apparent
in
all things; but the Light itself
is
denied, or
else not followed. This Light or Fire
is
nowhere to be found
in
such abundance and purity as
in
that subject which the
Arabians call Halicali, from Hali (Summum) and Calop
(Bonum)
;
but the Latin authors write
it
Sal Alkali.
"This substance
is
the catholic (universal) receptacle of
Spirits.
It
is
blessed and impregnated with light from above,
and was therefore styled
by
the magicians
'a
sealed house, full
of light and divinity.'
"
In Arabic, potassium
is
given as Al-gali, from which the
[66]
Aries and Kali Phos
word alkali is derived. Studying the word, al-kali we find it
means, literally, Father (al or el in Hebrew means God or
father) and Kali, a Sanskrit word for fire. In the Vedic, an
older form of the word means mother. Thus the true inter
pretation of alkali is father-mother, or positive and negative
combined or harmonized, therefore a neutral substance. In
deed it is a chemical fact that it is alkaline.
Vaughan refers to the above as "mineral doctrine," which
is very unique and absolutely true. We will be well on our way
in the study of the chemistry of the body when we begin to
realize that this
is,
indeed,
a
most necessary doctrine and must
be religiously followed.
Again Vaughan says: "For
in
Genesis he hath discovered
many particulars, and especially those secrets which have most
relation to this Art. For instance, he hath discovered the
minera
of
man, or that substance out of which man and
all of his fellow-creatures were made." He elsewhere men
tions the sperm of the world, as the first essence, which allo
cates perfectly with the first explanation herein of the brain
substance, from the word cere-brum, or seed substance. Sperm
means seed. Hali-Cali (potassium)
is
also termed "the casket
which holds the Light, and links us up with God and Nature."
Sufficient proof has been given thus far,
in
these pages, that
potassium
is
a
most subtle substance of very high vibration,
capable of holding within itself the fire
of
life, electricity,
prana, or Spirit. Reviewing the information relative to the
astrological interpretation of Aries and its definite relation to
the cerebro-spinal system, we see that Dr. Carey's allocation
of Kali phos to the zodiacal sign Aries has been indubitably
proved.
Well may the wondrous cerebral substance be termed
Proteus, for
it
truly
is
the Ancient of Days. In Greek myth
ology Proteus was
a
many-formed deity. Being composed of
everything, he could revert back to anything, take any shape
he wished, just as by chemical or electrical vibration all chem
ical substances will eventually be found to revert back to one.
The word protoplasm
is
derived from the same root word
as Proteus. If any one doubts that Kali phos or potassium
phosphate
is
the chief substance
in
the gray nerve cells let
him read the information furnished by any dictionary, encyclo
paedia or work on the physical body. Perhaps
it
will be well
to explain what
is
said relative to protoplasm
:
[67]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Proto, meaning first, and plasm, meaning form, is the name
for the viscous (sticky or glutinous) material of a vegetable
or animal cell. Please be advised that the word glutinous is
derived from the same root as gluten, a nutritious substance;
a proteid; the sticky, albuminous part of wheat (ceres) flour."
It is, therefore, seed,
a
more or less granulated substance that
forms the principal portion of an animal or vegetable cell.
"Protoplasm was previously termed sarcode, or flesh. The
protoplasm of most cells appears under the high power of
the microscope as
a
network (spongioplasm or reticulum)
containing
a
more fluid substance (hyaloplasm) in its meshes.
Chemically
it
is
a mixture of eighty to eighty-five per cent
water, and fifteen to twenty per cent solids (chiefly proteids),
with small quantities of fat, albumoses, globulins, and pep
tones.
"It also contains small quantities of carbohydrates like
glycogen, inosite, and mineral salts, especially those
of
potas
sium, which cause
it
to yield an alkaline reaction. Protoplasm
has been called
by
Huxley, owing to its presence
in
all organized
bodies, 'the physical basis of life,' and some have held that
its phenomena show that the difference between organized and
unorganized cells
is
simply complexity of chemical constitu
tion.
It
is
therefore
a
highly complex substance regarded as
a
mixture
of
different chemical substances.
"Protoplasm
is
contractile and irritable and reproduces by
self-division."
The above statement that protoplasm
is
contractile
is
absolute proof of the presence of Magnesium phos, the
moving or motor salt, Calcium fluoride, the builder of elas
ticity, and Potassium phosphate, the electrical salt. We are
here informed positively that the chief salt
is
potassium, for
electricity, spirit, or the fire of life must ensoul all matter.
In Gray's Anatomy we find that the soft, jelly-like material
termed cytoplasm found
in
the nucleated mass of protoplasm
contains, among other things, mineral salts; "chief among
which are the phosphates and chlorides of potassium, sodium,
and calcium." (1924 Edition).
Scientists have for some time known the above facts, and
there
is
no longer any reason or excuse why the medical pro
fession en masse should not adopt and utilize henceforth the
findings of Dr. William Schuessler relative to Biochemistry
the "inorganic system." The opinions of so many dietitians,
[68]
Aries and Kali Phos
naturopaths and others, that the mineral tablets or cell-salts
used to supply blood deficiencies can not enter the blood or be
utilized, are absolutely untrue, and would not be uttered if
these salts were faithfully and conscientiously tested for one
year.
In the first place, those making such a statement as this,
for instance "the salts are inorganic, and the body can
use only what is organic," show their ignorance of the
interpretation and derivation of words, for organic does not
mean that a mineral is changed, but that several have been
combined with fluidic materials. They can not be changed,
even by fire. Another fact not recognized is that the chemist
is able to pulverize or triturate them into as fine particles as
they are found in plants. Think how much it means, when
one uses the chemical term Kali, to know that it is the same
in Latin and German, and is thus traced directly to the San
skrit. Thousands of Hindus worship the goddess Kali as the
most powerful deity in Nature Fire which is at the same
time the Creator, the Preserver, and the Destroyer. Fire cre
ates, it preserves, and yet it can destroy.
Most scientists agree that there can be no life without
potassium, and at least we realize that it is the visible means
whereby life is manifested. It is indeed Proteus.
Since potassium feeds the gray matter of the brain, it at
one and the same time nourishes the Spirit in that brain. Sir
Thomas Vaughan says: "Be ye transmuted from dead stones
into living philosophical stones, a conversion of body into
spirit, and spirit into body, from corruption into a perfect
mode, wherein the body would be preserved continually. The
medicine
is,
however,
in
heaven itself and not to be found
elsewhere, yet not meaning thereby that
it
is
remote in place
or time, but rather in that center which, being within us
is
a
center that can be found everywhere."
In the form of oil we find that potassium sulphate per
meates all parts of the body. The marrow of the bones
is
thickened oil or fat stored there to feed and preserve them.
Each and every cell
in
the body
is
surrounded by and bathed
in
an oily, salty fluid for the same purpose. Potassium,
in
the
form of potassium chloride or Kali mur, spins threads of fibrin
on flesh fibers. Therefore all tissue, ligaments, structure of
all the organs, glands, skin, etc., are made of it. Then wise
Mother Nature adds to some of these fibers
a
large propor
[69]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
tion of potassium phosphate to form electrical wires through
which positive currents may pass and thus enable physiological
processes to go on. Potassium, in all of its combinations,
is then a conveyor or medium of life or fire; for fire is life,
and life is Spirit.
In his book, The Biochemic System of Medicine, Dr. Carey
says: "The gray matter of the brain is controlled entirely by
the inorganic cell-salt, potassium phosphate. This salt unites
with albumin, and by the addition of oxygen creates nerve
fluid, or the gray matter of the brain. Of course, there is a
trace of other salts and organic matter in nerve fluid, but
potassium phosphate is the chief factor, and has the power
within itself to attract, by its own law of affinity, all things
(Proteus) needed to manufacture the elixir of life." And
we know that this esse (the substance of being) actually
creates the child in utero.
He further says: "Therefore, when nervous symptoms
arise due to the fact that the nerve-fluid has been exhausted
from any cause, the phosphate of potassium is the only true
remedy, because nothing else can possibly supply the deficiency.
The ills from too rapidly consuming the gray matter of trie
brain can not be overestimated, and if all who are inclined
to nervous disorders would carry Kali phos with them, in
tablet form, a large amount of sickness and suffering would
be prevented. Let the overworked business man take it and
go home good-tempered. Let the weary wife, nerves un
strung from attending to sick children or entertaining com
pany, take it and note how quickly the equilibrium will be
restored and calm and reason assert her throne. We find this
potassium salt largely predominates in nerve fluid, and that
a deficiency produces well-defined symptoms. The beginning
and end of the matter is to supply the lacking principle, and
in molecular form, exactly as nature furnishes it in vegetables,
fruits, and grain. To supply deficiencies this is the only law
of cure."
There is one point which must be thoroughly understood,
and, in order that it may be, it will be referred to in each of
these twelve chapters, as follows:
The principle involved in this method is that of body
building. Many reasons combine to make the body un
able to obtain a sufficient supply of the twelve inorganic salts.
Therefore supplementing the moderate diet of natural food,
[70]
Aries and Kali Phos
simply prepared, with the different kinds of salts which each
individual requires day after day, month after month, and year
after year, is the actual method by which disease is eliminated
and the blood kept well nourished. In this way there is never
any deficiency.
Most people seem unable to understand this, and so cease
taking the salts when symptoms no longer appear. The salts
are taken not to cure symptoms, but to build up such a good
body that symptoms can not arise. A person takes food every
day, and seems really to understand that the body must have
nutriment. One does not say, "I ate yesterday and so I won't
need food again for a long time." People like to eat too well
ever to think of saying that, but they soon forget their mineral
salts when no symptom or pain is present to remind them.
Taking them in a desultory way is merely patching up instead
of daily building a new body automatically. This is the basic
plan for physical regeneration. "Be ye perfect, as your Father
in heaven is perfect."
Among the many outstanding symptoms which deficiency in
potassium phosphate causes are : Extreme nervousness, in
sanity, paralysis, hysteria, fainting, mental and physical ex
haustion, strange fancies and forebodings, softening of the
brain and spinal cord, nervous headache, hungry feeling after
eating food, etc. The writer, however, does not deal with
symptoms, but furnishes the individual plan whereby the body
may be entirely made over.
This plan is founded on the natural zodiac, wherein the
planets are placed in the degrees of the signs in which they
were at a person's birth. Allocating the mineral salts with
these signs will give the correct analysis and indicate the ten
dencies to deficiencies. This being known, one can then give a
list of the symptoms, mental as well as physical, which may at
any time tend to appear, until the blood is more nearly sup
plied with the needed salts. And as Shakespeare so truly said:
"And so from hour to hour we ripe and ripe,
And then from hour to hour we rot and rot,
And thereby hangs the tale."
If our chemical needs are supplied we will ripen, physically
and spiritually, but continued deficiencies in "the dust of the
earth," result in the other unattractive and undesirable con
dition.
In The Gospel of Buddha we read the following: "But
[71]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
to satisfy the necessities of life is not evil. To keep the body
in good health is a duty, for otherwise we shall not be able
to trim the lamp of wisdom and keep our minds strong and
clear." Truly does Kali phos, or phosphate of potassium feed
this lamp.
And from the same ancient source, the Sanskrit, we obtain
the following physiological information: "The living brain is
constituted of gross sensible material (Mahabhuta) infused
with prana. Its material has been worked up so as to consti
tute a suitable vehicle for the expression of consciousness in
the form of mind Antahkarana." (From Serpent Power, p.
127). Potassium phosphate is the vehicle of consciousness.
[72]
Chapter II
THE ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF TAURUS
"I come from a land in the sun-bright deep
Where golden gardens glow
Where the winds of the North becalmed in sleep
Their conch-shells never blow."
From: Moore's Song of the Hyperborean.
N the twenty-first of April, approximately, the Sun
stellation of the Bull. Dr. Wakeman Ryno writes
of it as follows: "This sign has been the inspiration, in all
ages, of more myths and stories than all the other twelve
signs put together. Taurus was worshiped as a healing god,
because he represented the growing strength of the Sun, and
healing, from 'Helios' the Sun. In the Greek we have the
word Theos, which is the basis of our English words theology
and theological. He is Taur, Thor or Theuth; the Golden
Calf of Horeb, of the Bible story; he is Hesperia, where
Hercules conquered the Oxen of Geryon; he was Amen-Apis
of the Thebans
"
Helios is also Apollo, and every nation and every people
has had its own particular term for this divine giver of life,
light and heat.
Taurus is the first of the earth triplicity. As two weeks
of May and one of April are concerned with its labor, we find
the true interpretation of the sign in the word May, the source
of which is a Sanskrit root, Mag, meaning to move. The word
Maia is derived from the same root. She it was to whom
the ancients offered gifts on the first day of May, and even
to the present day children celebrate May-Day night by ex
changing baskets of gifts, hanging them on door knobs. They
also delight in May-pole dances and playing pranks of a more
or less harmless and foolish nature.
The parts of the body with which this sign allocates are
the ears, face around lower jaw, cerebellum, neck, throat, liver
and gall-bladder.
AND NATRIUM SULPH.
heavens wherein is the con-
[73]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
The word cerebellum differs from cerebrum in its ending
only. The first part of the word, cere, means seed. Bellum
is a Latin word meaning war or antagonism, contention. Thus
contention or antagonism. It should not be ; but, because it
is the animal brain, the bull-headed god of the Age of
the Golden Calf, it represents that stage in the evolution of
humanity when it is torn by animal passions. Microprosophus
(of the Kabbala) is not co-operating with Macroprosophus;
in other words, the animal man, Adam, "is ever contending
against God," for passion can not hear the voice of reason.
Seed (cere) essence is destroyed. The word Taurus or Torus
also means any round swelling or protuberance a projecting
part or cushion. It is a well known anatomical fact that the
cerebellum has such a protection, and is seen in any chart.
Indeed it is colored red on the charts so as to be outstanding.
The sub-conscious mind functions through the lower brain
or cerebellum. To be sure this is contrary to what psycholo
gists teach, but the following is proof of its functioning
process.
Naturally the cerebrum, being the spiritual brain, is the
organ of consciousness. It is Rama, the Most High. In the
Greek it is Athens, and the goddess Athena means wisdom. It
is from this Greek word that we derive the term attic. An
attic is the top-most room in a house. Delicate wit is termed
"attic wisdom." Therefore the cerebrum is the first house or
first compartment in the physical dwelling. When this part of
the brain is chemically perfected and hence all knowledge is
obtained, consciousness or Spirit manifests as the Christ Con
sciousness.
The term sub means under, and is derived from the Latin.
Therefore, the sub-conscious brain in which the sub-conscious
mind functions is situated under the brain pertaining to con
sciousness or the cerebrum. It
is,
we may say, the basement or
cellar brain, where the things stored become damp and full of
moths. How beautifully true
is
the Biblical injunction
:
"Lay
up treasures
in
heaven (re-read the first chapter) where moths
do not corrupt and where thieves do not break through nor
steal."
Again, when
it
is
understood that Aries or the cerebrum
is
the God-brain and Taurus or the cerebellum (the contend
ing brain)
in
the animal,
it
becomes perfectly clear.
The state of mind, then, which each one of us manifests
[74]
Taurus and Natrium Sulph
in our imperfect state becomes the divine Bull by being
yoked to our higher consciousness. When a statement pre
sented to us is understood do we not say "Yes, / am conscious
of that fact." And is it not equally true that, when we are
unable to cognize another we say, "No, I am not conscious
that that is a fact
" This, then, is summed up in the statement
that we are not fully conscious.
No one can be fully conscious who is living in the animal
passions, and to whom they are attractive. To the degree
in which we are able to master them, to transmute or use that
same energy (Taurus) in mental work in the house of
consciousness, the cerebrum, do we merge from the sub
conscious state to that of the conscious, or spiritual. The
animal is the sub-human and the cerebellum is the animal
brain. Taurus must be yoked controlled guided by wis
dom. Many contend that the solar plexus is the sub-conscious
brain; but an understanding of anatomy and physiology proves
that this great center which is a collection of twelve great
nerve ganglia and hence a zodiac in itself, is a receiver of
energy, and hence one of feeling and sensation, not of
thought.
It is indeed true that, as long as we live in the animal brain
and are carnally minded, we are spiritually moldy and full of
moths; and eventually the form itself goes back into the
ground to be consumed.
"The last enemy to be overcome is death." Bible; and
"The wages of sin is death." Therefore, when we no longer
fall short or are deficient, which is the true meaning of sin, we
will no longer die, for it will be physiologically and chemically
impossible.
Taurus, or the Bull, is said to plow the earth, preparing
the soil that it may bring forth. Here we must recall the
parable of the sower who went forth to sow. The Adam man
is the sower. He is given, has made, and contains the seeds
of all things, as also does the earth.
But upon what kind of ground will these seeds fall on
fertile or barren? Ponder well on a mighty fact: The corpus
cles of the body are its seed. I am not referring to the seed of
procreation, for that is a different kind. But I will give you
another point, equally mighty: The animal man actually robs
his body of its corpuscles (one tenth, to be exact) in forming
[751
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
the germs of procreation. This is a fact which science will one
day admit.
The Bible states that "Man purchases a field with thirty
pieces of silver." The field (and the term "thirty pieces of
silver") is understood by studying the thirty degrees of
Scorpio which allocate with the organs of procreation. It is
only by means of these organs that progeny may be had. The
body or form is purchased, and with the coin of the realm,
for it has its origin in Aries, the cerebrum, which is the first
gland in the body. This heavenly treasure, the Gold of Ophir,
becomes perverted from its original and Paradisiacal use and
is changed to silver after flowing out of the Garden of Eden
the cerebrum.
The middle decan of Aries, allocating with the optic
thalami, is the place of the sagittal or All-Seeing Eye, the
seat of knowledge where we interpret all that we see, hear,
smell, taste and touch. So the last decan of Taurus is also
concerned with the senses, and especially with eyesight. As
the nerves from the head contact or cross at the base of the
brain, a chart will often indicate trouble with sight. The
reason for this is that there is interference with circulation,
and the special nerves having to do with this function are
unable to carry nutritive blood to the center in sufficient
quantity, or to bring away the waste products. As a result
we often find cataracts forming on the eyes. The middle
decan of Aries
is,
therefore, the positive pole pertaining to
the vision, and the last decan of Taurus
is
the negative end.
Referring to our interpretation of the sign with which we
are dealing, we must again note that
it
means to move. After
the outpouring of Divine Fire at the Spring equinox and until
April 21st, action begins. Nature starts to manifest visibly or
bring forth objectively. Here again we check accurately with
the anatomy and physiology of the cerebellum, for
it
is
the
motor brain, the mechanical brain.
It
does things.
It
receives
the electricity which Aries, the cerebrum, generates. For
cosmic electricity Spirit starts the motor, and the medulla
oblongata relays
it
so that
it
may start on its long journey
down into Egypt (the torso, or place of darkness). The
energy thus sent
is
received by the solar plexus, consisting of
twelve large nerve ganglia, which,
in
turn, broadcasts
it
to the
organs. If the solar plexus
is
weak because chemically defi
cient,
it
is
not only unable to receive sufficient of this great
[76]
Taurus and Natrium Sulph
influx, but is also unable to supply the organs. It can not give
what it does not possess. Then, again, the trouble may origi
nate in the cerebellum itself and that organ may be unable both
to receive and dispense energy. Stop and consider, please,
all of the allocations that we have thus far synthesized: the
meaning of the period which constitutes Taurus (May the
doing, or moving month) and the cerebellum (the motor, the
brain which acts).
Here we must dwell, for a time, on the chaotic condition
in which we find humanity today. We find everything per
verted religion, science, law, medicine, sex, finance, amuse
ments. Nothing has escaped, with the exception of mathe
matics. We are indeed fortunate that two and two still make
four, and that no one contradicts.
It is a self-evident fact that, if all the parts of a machine
are in perfect order, properly co-ordinated and contacting
power, it will work perfectly. The human mechanism is sub
ject to the same law. If a motor stops and starts, the result is
spasmodic action, not action which is harmonious. Thus, spas
modic thought results in inharmonious acts, and to the degree
in which it thus manifests chaos results.
With both cerebrum and cerebellum extremely deficient
chemically, is it then any wonder that human thought and
action are unsettled, inharmonious and spasmodic? It can not
be otherwise. This is the solution, then, for it explains why
wars exist, why there is no agreement, no harmony among
nations, and why social, civic, religious and racial inharmony
is rampant.
The spirit or God confined in an unhealthy, deficient brain,
poisoned with the waste products of gluttony and wrong liv
ing, is utterly unable to produce harmonious thought. The
lower brain in an equally imperfect condition can not give
birth to a vibration or current of energy that is as constructive
as is necessary. For the most part the energy generated is
used in a negative or destructive way. Thoughts are imper
fect and spasmodic, and the acts which follow are equally so.
The Gold of Ophir mentioned in the Scriptures is the
manna or dew referred to in Aries, and is the first sub
stance with which Spirit (the Erotes of Life) links up, uniting
the elements and bringing order out of chaos. The word
Ophir means in Hebrew a fruitful region. In Smith's Bible
Dictionary (1915, Appleton) we find that Baron von Wrede
[77]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
made a small vocabulary of Himyaritic words in the vernacular
tongue, and among these he gives ofir as red. As this color
is associated with Aries, energy and fire, it allocates perfectly.
In addition we have, on leaving off the letter O, fir, which
is the fir or evergreen tree which from time immemorial has
been used as a symbol of the Tree of Life.
As the word pine is also used interchangeably, we find that
the pine cone has been employed as a symbol of the pineal
gland in the head, and indeed the word itself literally means
pine god. The evergreen is a symbol of the renewal and
hence continuity of life. Likewise this wonderful and
so-called mysterious gland in the head is the creator and
renewer of life. Al and el in Hebrew mean God. Fine gold
is refined gold and there are many references in the Scriptures
to the Gold of Ophir being of this nature. The cerebrum is
truly a mine, a cave, in which is cloistered that most precious
of all substances which has always been likened to gold.
In this Garden of Eden, coiled around the trunk of the
pine tree or Tree of Life we find the serpent, which is sym
bolical of energy, the head issuing forth from the midst of its
branches. In many very ancient illustrations we find that the
serpent has three heads, the middle being more elevated.
This is in keeping with the physiological correspondence,
for those on either side stand for the right and left sympa
thetic systems which constitute the two thieves of the Scrip
tures. Here the Gold of Ophir changes, takes on a different
vibration and becomes silver. The Spiritual Man is repre
sented by gold, the feminine counterpart by silver, while
the Adam man is copper. Both gold and silver are said to
be noble metals, because not easily oxidized. Gold is the fire
of life, while silver is the water of life. The adi nerve is as
sociated with the pituitary body or gland in the head, while
the pengala connects with the pineal gland. The Sun rules
the pineal and the Moon the pituitary. These constitute the
male and female which God joined together in the Garden
of Eden, otherwise Aries, the cerebrum.
The nerve-fluid from these two glands meets and crosses
at the point or place in the head where Taurus begins. It is
Golgotha Place of the Skull. This is the cross on which
animal nature brings suffering. We must refer to the sign
opposite Taurus, its complement, that of Scorpio, as it is here
that we find much of the animal energy of Taurus expressed.
[78]
Taurus and Natrium Sulph
There is a curious reference in the Bible to Scorpio which
ecclesiastics do not seem to deal with : "In Sodom and Egypt
where our Lord was also crucified."
Not only do these nerves cross at the base of the brain
but at the second lumbar vertebra also, for the fire and water
of life go downward into Scorpio and are literally thrown
away. This causes the real man, the Spirit, to be crucified, de
frauded by the animal nature of material with which to
express divinity.
But when the fire and water of life are not used prodigally,
when Adam no longer sacrifices his own son (sub
stance) but offers up the animal instead, these divine fluids,
gold and silver, the noble metals (because high born) return
to their source. They ascend by going over the cross from
Taurus into Aries, when the father and son, the creator and
the product of that creation, again merge or blend into one
another.
The right and left sympathetic systems are thieves, for
until the emotions become controlled through the proper
supply of the necessary chemical elements, the real function
of this part of the body is unable to manifest. The real
function is motion and not e-motion. The e-motional life robs
the body of nerve energy and of the highly specialized nerve
or soul fluid. Summing up this statement and referring to our
zodiacal sign which deals with emotion Leo it is made plain
that the conservation of nerve energy and of soul fluid re
creates that body which initiates it.
We must understand, then, that the story which Taurus
gives us is relative to motion, work, doing. Therefore in
order that such may result, it is self-evident that there is in
Nature a certain substance that creates motion (which is
energy manifesting). Natrium or sodium is said to be a re
ducing agent. In other words it steps down chemical action and
lowers the rate of vibration. It has the power to decompose
water. In the form of Natrium sulph or sulphate of sodium,
the addition of the sulphur causes a little different action.
Sulphur has been known from the remotest times. It forms
an essential part of human and animal tissues and exists to a
considerable extent in plant life, in that the human body must
obtain it through food. When digestion and assimilation
fail because of Calcium starvation it must be derived from
the highly triturated tablets of this mineral. Natrium sulph
[79]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
is electro-negative, in this instance. It is linked with sodium
and thus especially active in water.
The brain or Aries essence is a proteid, in fact this Ancient
of Days in the Greek myth was Proteus the first substance.
It is a well-known chemical fact that sulphur is the only visible
mineral substance found in proteid, which proves that it per
forms a linking function. Thus it serves to link up the brain
substance or Proteus with the next chemical agent or Natrium,
in order that a more substantial substance may result. There
are twelve steps in this reduction or stepping-down process,
corresponding to the twelve signs of the zodiac. Therefore
the "heavenly dew" is brought into a different state or con
dition, becoming more earthy or tangible.
One particle of Natrium sulph has the power to attract
twice its bulk of water containing waste products and to throw
it out of the blood. As waste products consist in the average
human body of unhealthy or acid residue, they can truthfully
be compared to sulphuric acid. Indeed we find strange and
sinister chemical products in a very foul and unhealthy human
body.
The sodium, then, takes some of the fluid from the essence,
mixes it with sulphur and begins the process of reduction,
seeking to make a denser substance. A form is to be created.
Spirit is to be clothed with matter.
We have said that Natrium sulph is a reducing agent in
chemistry, and it indeed is. Those born when the Sun is
transiting Taurus are lymphatic types, for they are deficient
in sodium sulphate. They will find many of the symptoms
which appear at intervals during their lifetime listed under
this salt in Schuessler's Biochemic System. They are also set
forth in Dr. Carey's work. When this salt is supplied and
taken faithfully it will gradually eliminate all these ills.
When the nature and use of Natrium sulph is understood,
people will then know why they take on weight and increase
in size in spite of strict dieting. It is because the lymphatic
system slowly becomes engorged with excess fluid derived
from the atmosphere through the breath. Air goes directly
into the arterial blood, for the word artery means air-carrier.
Air is humid or moist, and when it carries in suspension a
great quantity of water the blood becomes quickly over
charged. Particularly is it difficult for the Taurian born to
live in comfort in the tropics, and especially in localities where
there is great humidity.
Taurus and Natrium Sulph
»
I am positive that Dr. Carey has given us the correct
explanation of a chill. He says, in his Biochemic System:
"There is not a 'medical authority' (?) in existence who has
given us a true definition of this phenomena. Their so-called
explanations are meaningless and glittering generalities. I
explain a chill (ague) thus: When the blood becomes over
charged with water, of course the various tissues of the body
must suffer from lack of proper nourishment. This sets up
a panic.
"Now, as the water-carriers are not present in sufficient
quantities to throw out the excess in the natural way, nature
does the next best thing causes a spasm of the vascular,
nervous and muscular systems, and thus, by violent effort,
throws out the excess of water; hence the profuse perspiration
which follows the chill. Where Natrium sulph is not given
to supply the workmen, and thus keep out an excess of water,
the chill will recur in about forty-eight hours, simply because
that much time is required again to overcharge the blood with
water."
Thus we see that kindly Mother Nature actually wrings
the water out of the blood, when the needed material which
would eliminate water comfortably is not at hand.
We also learn in his book that malarial conditions or symp
toms are not caused by microbes from a swamp he was not
at all interested in the germ theory as the cause of disease.
Deficient material for Nature to work with and a general toxic
condition constitute the reason for physical and mental dis-ease
and inharmony. When a person suffering from malaria visits
a mountain resort he is relieved, simply because he is breathing
the air from a cool, dry stratum, and is above the point where
water is held in suspension by heat. A large supply of oxygen
is also obtained, but here again, if the Ferrum or iron content
of the blood is low, it is not able to enter.
We find the month of May to be a humid month, for the
reason that Nature, Aries, is reducing taking water from
the fire impregnated air and precipitating it into the fire-
impregnated earth, so that the work of production or growth
may take place. Thus we see the formation of buds and the
trees clothed with their first faintly green spring garments.
It is perfectly legitimate for humanity to think of new gar
ments in the Spring, for does not Mother Nature, the eternal
feminine, clothe herself anew at this time? We should ever
[81]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
seek to know this cosmic mother of ours, to work understand-
ingly with her.
During the Spring period a great many people feel lazy
and debilitated and are thus unable to appreciate what is going
on in Nature and what she is endeavoring to accomplish in
human bodies. The blood is very deficient in the needed
workmen (minerals) and the system is full of physical rubbish.
Nature is endeavoring to work and against odds. We could
accomplish marvelous things if we could only work with her.
The human body, like the earth, may actually become dry,
parched and barren because of lack of water. It may also
become flooded with water and the corpuscles drowned. Many
people suffer from drowsiness when the attention is not occu
pied, in spite of having had sufficient sleep, due to excess water
in the brain cells. Sleeping sickness is an exaggerated form
of this, and thought is actually drowned, indeed, temporarily
submerged.
There is a great need for all three sodium or Natrium
combinations. A few of the many indications or symptoms
which inform us of a need for this reducing agent are : Irrita
tion due to biliousness; tendency to suicide with wildness and
irritability from an excessive secretion of bile and from too
much fluid which is of an acid nature in the cells; headache
on top of the head; biliousness; vomiting of bile; dizziness;
tongue dirty, greenish-gray or greenish-brown color; bitter or
metallic taste in the mouth; violent pains at the base of the
brain; spinal meningitis; conjunctivitis; lightning-like pain
through the ears; enlargement of the liver; diabetes; asthma;
dropsy; gout; fistulous abscess of long standing; drowsiness;
debility; heavy, anxious dreams, nightmare, etc.
It must be understood that the above are only a few symp
toms from the long list which the book on this subject gives us.
All symptoms are worse in the morning and in rainy or damp
weather, this being what is termed "a modality."
The Biblical story of the ten captive tribes refers to the
remaining ten signs of the zodiac and the allocating parts of
the body which are truly captives, forced into bondage by
the animal man, Adam, Taurus, the Bull or cerebellum. The
animal mind, the emotions, wastes in the pleasures of the
prodigal son, the man, the substance, the daily bread from
heaven, while the ten tribes or parts of the body slowly starve.
In this state they represent the ten tribes of Jacob. But when
[82]
Taurus and Natrium Sulph
at last they become nourished and sustained by the conserva
tion of this Alkahest or cerebral honey, they become the tribes
of Israel, which means warriors of God serving the most
high, the God-brain, the cerebrum.
Our own poet, Edwin Markham, refers to this constellation
in the words "High as that Heaven where Taurus wheels"
and says :
"It is a vision waiting and aware,
And you must bring it down, oh men of worth,
Bring down the New Republic hung in air ,
And make for it foundations on the Earth."
Another of our modern day writers, G. A. Gaskell, who has
given us A Dictionary of the Sacred Language of All Scrip
tures and Myths, a most enlightening work for students,
interprets Taurus as "A symbol of the second period of the
cycle of life. It signifies the divine out-going activity in the
creation of forms. The Bull of the West represents the
matrix of forms on the Buddhic plane, or the productive
energy of Buddhi. It pertains to the period of involution
when Spirit is descending into matter and giving it the
potencies of forms and qualities afterwards to be evolved in
natural phenomena and in the souls of humanity."
Taurus is a symbol of the second period of the cycle of
life, for it is the second sign and house of the zodiac, receiv
ing the out-going electrical energy of Aries, and utilizing it
in the formation of the human body. Earth, Taurus, has
received the baptism of fire and water from the pineal and
pituitary; and Mercury, the guide of travelers and the Mes
senger of the Gods, descends.
[83]
Chapter III
THE ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF GEMINI AND
KALI MUR OR CHLORIDE OF POTASSIUM
"A noiseless, patient spider,
I mark'd, where, on a little promontory, it stood, isolated;
Mark'd how, to explore the vacant, vast surrounding.
It launched forth filament, filament, filament, out of itself;
Ever unreeling them ever tirelessly speeding them.
And you, O my soul, where you stand,
Surrounded, surrounded, in measureless oceans of space,
Ceaselessly musing, venturing, throwing seeking the spheres to connect them;
Till the bridge you will need be formed till the ductile anchor hold;
Till the gossamer thread vou fling, catch somewhere, O my soul."
Walt Whitman.
HE spider is a creature of air as well as of earth.
Standing, as our poet so beautifully expresses
it,
on
a
material foundation,
it
launches forth into space
fairy-like threads, spun from the substance of its own body,
a
thick, viscous fluid, secreted by certain glands
in
the abdom
inal region. Air currents lift this aerial raft, bearing its
creator on its way, and, eventually,
by
means of this silken
cable,
it
ties up at another port.
The student of Esoteric Biochemistry revels
in
the perfect
analogy existing between the above lines, the metaphysical,
physiological and astrological interpretations of Gemini, and
its allocation with potassium chloride or Kali mur by Dr.
George W. Carey. For the entire story has to do with off
shoots, threads, fibers, filaments or offspring.
In the preceding chapters we have considered the outpour
ing of energy into undifferentiated matter, the creative esse
of life, and its impregnation by fire.
It
manifests
in
nature as
the Spring time and
in
the human body by the generation of
electrical energy
in
the cerebrum (Aries).
Then,
by
the addition of Natrium sulph to Kali phos,
a
different chemical product results. The work at last begins,
a
protuberance appears, Aaron's rod buds and the back-brain
or cerebellum forms.
The Sun
in
its journey now enters the sign of Gemini, which
occurs, approximately, on May 21, and as there are two weeks
[84]
Gemini and Kali Mur
of June and only one of May in this period, it is termed the
June month.
The word is derived from the Latin verb jungo, and means
a joining or joint, therefore a fiber or shoot. It is a thread, a
filament branching off from the main stalk, whose source is the
bud (gemma) or swelling brought forth by the Sun in Taurus.
We have an identical interpretation in the word bulb, a pro
tuberance, derived from the same root as Bull, which is the
animal glyph for that sign. In the term gemmation, we have
direct evidence of the true meaning of Gemini, as it refers to
a new organism developed from a projection. It may be sepa
rated off or remain attached, the shoots of a plant being an
example of the latter, and human progeny of the former.
This last differs in that it takes place within the body.
Juno, as consort of Jupiter, refers to this sign, Gemini and
Sagittarius (Jove's house) constituting the two ends of one
pole that of growth and travel. Under the name Juno
Lucina the goddess of childbirth is represented, which again
checks the original interpretation and the glyph of the twins.
In India, they were popularly termed Mithuna, the Boy and
Girl, while in Arabian astrology they are Al Tau'aman, a term
replete with esoteric significance. Al or El meaning God; Tau,
meaning cross; and Amen or Aman signifying concealed or
hidden.
As the inner meaning of Taurus (Tau and Rus) is dew cross
corresponding with Golgotha, "the place of the skull," "this
Manna (man) or brain esse comes down to form man, which
is an anatomical fact. Thus the Divine Man or Spirit in us
actually becomes suspended on a cross of matter. Its body
constitutes that cross (tree of nerves). The oldest glyphs
brought down from times remote picture man crucified on a
tree. Later, much of the true interpretation was lost because
of the change from tree to cross.
It must be understood that the two nervous systems con
stitute the living physiological trees upon which each and every
human being is crucified, for through them all of the functions
of the body are carried on. They register in themselves, the
kind of life each person lives, for every thought reacts in
stantly on them. The brain and nerves have a chemical
formula, as do all parts of the body, and not until they are
chemically perfect will absolute self control be possible. This
is the reason why the story of Freemasonry is not relative to
[85]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
character building, but to body building; character will take
care of itself when the brain cells are chemically perfect.
On page 167 of Part 1 of the Secret Doctrine, Madam
Blavatsky quotes the following : "Lead the life necessary for
the acquisition of such knowledge and powers, and Wisdom
will come to you naturally." As the Sun is exalted in Aries and
the Moon in Taurus, neither one, the same writer informs us,
can accomplish anything in the great work without Mercury,
who truly is the messenger of the gods, the mind-fluid, the
bearer or carrier of light or electricity.
The cerebro-spinal system is the generator and carrier of
physio-chemical electricity, which is energy or life. This ex
plains why Mercury is associated with Gemini as its ruler,
meaning that all the activities with which this sign and house
have to do are of a Mercurial nature, and must thus be in
terpreted.
The different rates of vibration by means of which all
Nature's work is accomplished have received the names of
planets, in order that humanity may study them and the effects
they produce, not only in nature, but in the human body.
Metaphysically, Mercury is mind; physiologically, the cerebro
spinal system the nerves; chemically it is quicksilver, an oily
or fatty substance, the argentum vivum or living philosophical
silver, for we learn that the true interpretation of quick is
living.
The root of the word Mercury is the Latin word merx,
meaning goods or merchandise, and when the various offices
and attributes ascribed to "him" are analyzed, a vast treasure
house of information is available.
In ancient times this god was identified as the Greek
Hermes, son of Jupiter and Maia. He was the messenger
of the gods, the inventor of the lyre, god of oratory, con
ductor of the souls of the dead to the lower world, and patron
(father) of merchants and thieves.
As messenger, Mercury (mind and the sensory nerves)
utilizes the electrical energy of thought and the subtle nerve
fluids created by Father Jupiter, the giver of all good things.
In action he may do this positively and hence beneficially, or
negatively and destructively. In any case Mercury stands
for merchandise, wares or goods, utilized in commerce or ex
change by the mind in the body. As god of oratory he refers
to the mental power necessary to become a good speaker, one
who voices truth
[86]
Gemini and Kali Mur
The reference to the lyre is concerned with a very mys
terious organ in the brain having that name and which is
the real source of the singing voice. It is the positive pole,
while the negative is the place where sound is emitted, or
the vocal cords in the throat.
The explanation of Mercury as father of merchants and
thieves is the same as that given above. Mind, the father
of thought, can actually rob the body by becoming the prodigal
son as the Bible states, and wasting its substance or merchan
dise in riotous living.
The brain esse and thought power or electricity constitute
the true merchandise of every human body and the great
work is to perfect it so that it will be able to attract the
highest form of ether (Akasha) into the body. We become
thieves when we make no effort to do this, stealing not only
from ourselves, but from others as well. To rob another
or one's self of this most precious merchandise is truly the
sin against the Holy Ghost.
In the Scorpio division of the zodiac, astrology gives us
complete information relative to thieving. The body is the
rightful owner of all that is created in it and when this sentence
is understood, the Biblical statement relative to "inheriting
the earth" will at last become clear. To inherit means to hold
possession of.
Death is the separation of Spirit from the body there is
insufficient material for it to work with or function through,
its piece of real estate is of poor quality, its mineral or chem
ical formula is imperfect, so much so that it can not support
life. Hence it leaves.
When the chemical formula created by the Divine Chemist
for the perfect man is complied with, then indeed will the
great work have been accomplished.
The cerebro-spinal substance is thought material, creative
esse, manna, elixir of life, the ambrosia of the gods, the Gold
of Ophir and the treasure of the Kingdom of Heaven, which
becomes argentum vivum quick or living silver, in the human
body.
And thus we find the true interpretation of merchandise
perverted along with everything else, for the words Mercury
and mind are derived from the same root. Our minds must
have goods with which and through which to express. The
old slang phrase "you haven't got the goods" is accurate even
though it can not be termed "attic wisdom," delicate wit.
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
As the mind (Mercury) can be capable of recognizing facts
or their absence while surrounded by a mass of mental rubbish
in the literature of today, or of any age, even so is the
chemical Mercury endowed with the same power. It is an
amalgam, and can separate gold and silver from other ores
truly releasing them from their bondage with impurities. It
is also a solvent of metals. Its work in nature is analogous
with that of the human body.
Again, we have another and perfect correspondence in the
thermometer and the barometer, whose tubes are filled with
mercury which measures air temperature and pressure. Mer
cury expands and rises in the tube under the influence of heat
vibrations. It was invented and named by man for the simple
reason that it was patterned from his own spinal canal which
contains living (quick) silver. The lower or negative bulb
is the sacral (sacred) ganglia, the upper and positive being
the cerebrum.
Another mechanical device patterned from the spinal canal
is the syringe, the Latin word for which is syrinx. One end
is attached to a source of supply, the cerebrum, and pressure
applied to a bulb at the lower end releases the fluid. Even
so in the human body Euphrates, the River of God, is robbed
of the Water of Life.
Gemini is a neutral sign, and the three others, Virgo,
Sagittarius, and Pisces, constitute the neutral, harmonious, or
as I have named
it,
the purification cross.
It
has been under
stood
by
most students of astrology that beginning with Aries
as positive and masculine, every alternate sign
is
feminine.
But
I
have found
it
much more satisfactory and very illum
inating to consider every third sign as neuter. When the fact
is
recalled that there are neuter planets
it
is
only logical to
differentiate the signs
in
the same way, and
I
wish to make
the emphatic statement that the true astrological story will
never become clear unless the four signs above mentioned are
studied from this viewpoint.
The information which actually proves this to be true can
be obtained by studying the nature and use of the four mineral
salts which Dr. Carey allocated with them, namely: Kali mur,
Silicea, Kali sulph and Ferrum phos. After carefully study
ing every point
in
each of the twelve chapters you will readily
see on reconsidering the information given relative to the
purification cress, that the amazing story
it
tells
is
none other
[88]
Gemini and Kali Mur
than that of purity, harmony, and perfection, and therefore
is neuter.
In his Dictionary of Sacred Language of All Scriptures and
Myths, G. A. Gaskell says of Gemini : "A symbol of the third
and lower selves, or the Individuality and Personality on the
mental plane. These are the two centers of consciousness in
the soul for the higher and lower activities. In the constella
tion Gemini are the two stars Castor and Pollux, which are
symbols of the personality and the individuality, in accordance
with the story of the Dioscuri."
While the above definition is one of the best we have had,
it is rather misleading in the light which physiology throws
on it. There is really but one self, and that is the Spirit, the
individual.
When the physical vehicle, the brain, is chemically perfect,
then Spirit, the individuality, manifests as such unhampered.
Its manifestation is limited and colored by the imperfect
vehicle in and through which it endeavors to function. It is
cramped, chaotic and spasmodic. It harms the body and injures
others. This, in its various and varied manifestations, we term
personality or lower mind. A concrete example of this is the
difference between the vibrations produced by a perfect musical
instrument and one dilapidated and utterly incapable of pro
ducing anything but discordant sounds. Both keyboards are
manipulated by a gifted artist, the Spirit.
Mr. Gaskell quotes from Smith's Classical Dictionary rela
tive to Dioscuri, the Twins, or Castor and Pollux, the two
principal stars of Gemini. "They were the sons of Leda.
Pollux and Helen only were children of Zeus, and Castor was
the son of Tyndareus, also the daughter Clytemnestra." The
fact that their mother was mortal makes them half-human,
half-divine, and emphasizes the dual nature of the brothers.
The key to the real meaning of Castor and Pollux is in
their etymology. Castor is derived from the Latin word
castus, meaning pure, spotless, abstinence from sensual pleas
ure, chastity; while Pollux means to defile or pollute.
Thus Spirit utilizes the wares of the body or physical
merchandise
i.n
perfecting
it,
and
in
making
it
spotless and
pure. If the substance of the body
is
otherwise employed
it
defiles and pollutes.
It
is
needless to say that the great
majority of human beings come under the negative interpreta
tion of Gemini. They are living
in
the lower mind. Gradual-
The 'twins' signifying the higher
[89]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
ly we will learn, through the suffering which inevitably results
from misuse of the cerebro-spinal substance and electrical
energy the great lesson which must be driven home to each
one.
Madam Blavatsky says, on page 122 of Part II, S. D.,
"But the variant of the Leda allegory which has a direct
reference to mystic man is found in Pindar only, with a slighter
reference to it in Homeric hymns. Castor and Pollux are,
in
it,
no longer the Dioscuri (of Appolodorus III, 10,
7)
but
become the highly significant symbol of the dual man, the
Mortal and the Immortal. Not only this, but as will now
be seen, they are also the symbol of the Third Race, and its
transformation from the animal man into
a
God-man with
only an animal body."
In the Greek allegory we read
:
"Pollux will either remain
immortal, living eternally
in
Olympus; or,
if
he would share
his brother's fate
in
all things, he must pass half his existence
underground, and the other half
in
the golden, heavenly
abodes.
This semi-immortality which
is
also to be shared
by
Castor
is
accepted by Pollux. And thus the twin brothers live alter
nately, one during the day, and the other during the night."
In all esoteric writings references to day have to do with
the higher mind, living the life which leads to illumination,
while the night symbolizes the life of spiritual darkness.
Exoterically Gemini deals with short journeys, letters, mail
carriers, messenger boys, telegrams, and methods of commun
ication, children and relatives, all of those things which have
underlying them the idea of threads (of thought), fibers,
twigs, emanations that which branches off from
a
parent.
In the Vedas the Twins are called "the Physicians of
Heaven," and this probably refers to the influence of Mercury
whose caduceus
is,
to this day, used as the official insignia of
our army medical corps and among physicians generally.
The explanation of caduceus
is
one with which real students
must become thoroughly conversant, as there
is
no one thing
which so clearly links us up with, and at the same time gives
us the physiological key to what we have termed religion.
The word
is
derived from the Latin cadus meaning
a
vessel or jar, also from the verb cado meaning to fall. A dead
body
is
termed
a
cadaver and
is
derived from the same root.
Webster's Dictionary informs us that caduceus
is
derived from
[90]
Gemini and Kali Mur
cadere meaning to fall. Summing up our various interpreta
tions, we find that the human body is a vessel or jar containing
the Water of Life. When a living body falls lifeless, it is
termed a cadaver. It is a desert, a deserted place from which
the Water of Life has departed.
The inner meaning of caduceus, then, is concerned with the
fall of man. If this is the negative interpretation, since it
obviously deals with destruction, then in its positive analysis
we find the plan for the rise or ascent of man. In other words,
this is his return to the Father which consummation is the
at-one-ment. As the word ment is derived from the Latin
mentis meaning mind, right here we have the complete ex
planation, one mind, mind forever manifesting harmoniously,
benevolently, the Christ Mind. The vehicle has been per
fected, therefore there is no longer any antagonism, no mental
chaos caused by mind Spirit searching for material with
which to manifest. The Father now has sufficient Mother
(mater-material) with which to produce harmony.
This brings us to our physiological allocation, and to
the consideration of those parts assigned by the ancients to
Gemini, the bronchial tubes and lungs, the shoulders, arms
and hands. Some astrologers include the nerves, which is
correct if one considers their basic formation as fibers, for
other salts must be present in order that they may respond
to either sensory or motor impulses. The sensory nerves must
be studied under Aries, the motor under Leo. All nerves are
essentially filaments. To the above list I add the skin and
glands, especially, but it must be remembered that all flesh
is constituted of fibers or filaments, so there is very little of
the body which does not have flesh filaments for its basis.
These constitute man's garment.
Referring to the interpretation of June from the Latin
word meaning joint or joining, we must bear in mind the fact
that the nerves and bronchial tubes constitute that part of the
body which first branches of, after the formation of the cere
brum, cord and cerebellum.
The bronchi are the branches which convey air to the lung
cells which we may term the twigs and leaves. Without lungs
there would be no marriage in Cana of Galilee, no turning
of the water of life into wine. For here is where oxygen,
spirit or prana, combines with the blood for the arterial sys
tem, producing a combination of earth, air, fire and water of
[91]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
which so very, very little is really known. How amusing it
becomes, then, to the student of synthesis, when he reads that
this supposed turning of water into wine in an ancient city in
times remote may today serve as a reason for even ministers
of the gospel voting against prohibition. They say, "at least
give us wine, for since Jesus himself made it to serve to wed
ding guests, it must be quite all right."
The word Cana means reeds in Hebrew, while Galilee
means circle. Their combination clearly refers to the lungs
and their function of combining air and blood, which is the
Water of Life. It becomes the wine of life when Spirit is
added.
Is it not now clear how utterly perverted the whole subject
of beverages has become? A clean, healthy, pure body nour
ished by this brand of wine, the Wine of Life, makes for a
clear intellect and a brain without cobwebs, which is the neces
sary qualification for understanding. Thus we have a good
foundation for wisdom. On the other hand, a stomach filled
with any other kind of wine results in a befuddled brain and
the entire absence of reason. We have as yet so little sense
that it behooves us not to drown it.
We link up again with Mercury as ruler of Gemini when
we dwell on the fact that air, breath, oxygen and Spirit
energize and make active the mind for which Mercury stands.
The following quotation from the scriptures gives us a clear-
cut picture of it: "There is a Spirit in man, and inspiration
(inbreathing) of the Almighty giveth it understanding." The
kind of air and the amount we inbreathe depends on our
physical chemistry, but that is another story and is told
in Chapter Twelve. Our mental power is our metaphysical
merchandise or money which needs must have brain substance
through which to manifest and which constitutes our physio
logical coin real treasure.
That astro-physio-chemical book, the Bible, also tells us
that "The blood is the life of the flesh," for it carries not only
nutriment to every cell, but air as well. Every corpuscle is a
water-air creature, truly a salt water habitant, a human fish.
The eager, open-minded searcher for truth will find many
questions relative to religion answered in these pages. This
book, however, serves only as an introduction to others
which will follow, and which will go still deeper into those
subjects concerning which there is so much controversy today.
[92]
Gemini and Kali Mur
Truth is very simple and easily understood, when the brain is
in good condition, for there is a clear and logical explanation
for every problem. But the cerebral cells as well as all other
cells must be supplied with the proper mineral food, and kept
free from acid accumulations and poison. It is a process, like
everything else, and time is required.
Before dealing with the mineral allocation, let us see if we
can find anything in the physiological story which has been
brought down through the ages. In C. A. Gaskell's Classic
Myths, we note that the Three Fates (Clotho, Lachesis and
Atrophos) were the spinners of the thread of human destiny.
They were provided with shears with which to cut it off when
they pleased, and, according to Hesiod, were the daughters of
Night. Clotho held the distaff, Lachesis spun the thread, and
Atrophos cut it off when it was ended.
In Funk & Wagnall's New Standard Dictionary we are
informed that the Fates dwelt in the deep abyss of Demo-
gorgon, and with unwearied fingers drew out the threads of
life. Demogorgon was said to be the genius of the soil or
earth, fabled to be the life and substance of plants. He was
depicted as a little old man covered with moss who lived un
derground.
Gemini is the branching-off month or period of the year, as
has been heretofore explained. It has to do, in utero, with
the branching-off of the nerves from the head, to form the
body. Thus it does not require much imagination to see that
the story of the Three Fates is concerned with the three
decans of Gemini. The distaff refers to the base of the brain,
where seventy-five per cent of the nerves of the head concen
trate and cross, appearing to wind upon themselves. In some
mythological pictures the thread is represented as first appear
ing at the feet of Jove and his heavenly spouse. Clotho, the
youngest of the three fates is allocated with the first decan
of the sign Gemini, and is holder of the distaff. Lachesis
spins or draws out the thread, while Atrophos divides it so
that it may form the great nerve branch in either leg.
While the interpretation of the story is that Atrophos cuts
off the thread, much research into the etymology of the word
shear reveals the fact that it also means "the parting or fork
of the human body" hence the limbs. The nerves do not ter
minate at the end of the spine but continue to the end of the
extremities, after branching off. It is also true that life ceases
[93]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
when nerve action ends. An archaic interpretation of shear is
to make an incision or cleft.
It is also true that fate or destiny of each individual depends
on the extent and degree to which the Spirit in man is able to
control, direct and manifest the threads of life through the
cerebro-spinal nervous system. The electricity of life truly
flows through them.
The Three Fates were termed the Parcae by the Romans,
while the Greeks called them the Mcerae, meaning to divide,
to apportion. Other interpretations are a tree-shoot, a cutting
a lot of anything. From this latter, no doubt, arose the
idea of casting lots, or one's lot or fate destiny. There
is,
then, every evidence, from its synthetic analysis, that the
branching off of the nerves from the base of the brain, the
formation of the air passages and the growth of blood vessels
and arteries to form the torso and extremities must be studied
under Gemini.
"In the astronomical story of Gemini we find that
in
the
feet of the Twins,
a
brilliant white star named Almeisan or
Al Maisan
is
described by Al Biruni as winding, as though the
stars of this station were winding around each other, or curv
ing from the central star. In Babylonia this star marked the
tenth ecliptic constellation, Mash-mashu-sha-Risu, the Twins
of the Shepherd, and may have been the Babylonian lunar
mansion Khigalla, the Canal." This information
is
available
in
Star Names and Their Meanings, by Richard Hinckley
Allen.
There
is
every evidence that the Canal represented by
stars
in
the constellation of Gemini refers to the spinal canal.
"In the human body and blood, fibrin
is
distinguished from
albumin and casein
by
its separation,
in
a
solid state, into
delicate filaments
in
any fluid
in
which
it
is
dissolved, shortly
after the fluid
is
taken from the organism.
It
is
clearly shown
by biochemistry that, without the inorganic salt potassium
chloride, no fibrin can be made; and
it
is
further shown that
the normal amount of fibrin can not be held
in
proper solution
in
the blood without the proper balance of that cell-salt. Fibrin
results from the union of certain fibrin-plastic substances (al
buminoids), but this union does not take place
in
the absence
of
the chloride
of
potash molecules.
"In venous blood the fibrin amounts to three
in
1000 parts.
Arterial blood contains less, and lymph
a
still smaller amount.
[94]
Gemini and Kali Mur
In inflammatory exudations we find fibrin in the serous
cavities such as pleura and peritoneum and on the mucous
membrane, as in croup, diphtheria, catarrh, etc. In all in
flammatory conditions, Ferrum phos (the Pisces salt) should
be given with Kali mur, for iron particles carry oxygen
which becomes deficient when the proper balance is disturbed
by the outflow of fibrin. It is quite clear to my mind that
fibrin is created or produced by the action of the chloride
of potash, with the assistance of oxygen, on certain album
inoids." Dr. Carey's Biochemic System.
The definition of Fibrin is: "A whitish proteid from the
blood and the serous fluids of the body. It is seen in elastic
fibrillar masses." It is not recognized as fibrin in the blood
but as coagulum from which fibers or filaments threads are
spun. The definition of fiber is "an elongated, thread-like
structure of organic tissue."
Potassium chloride is the mineral sylvite termed in Latin,
sal digestivus, the digestive salt. The word "digest" is derived
from the Latin dis apart, and gerere to carry. Its meaning
therefore is to carry apart in different directions, to separate,
divide. It will be clearly seen what a significant allocation Dr.
Carey made when he assigned to Gemini, the branching-off
sign of the zodiac, this salt which has the power to carry apart
in different directions. But it must be remembered that his al
locations of the salts to the signs were made automatically,
and he did not (in this incarnation, at least) check up with
esoteric astrology. It is evident, however, that he recalled,
from a past incarnation these accurate chemical corre
spondences.
As we study anatomy and physiology, it is evident that
with the exception of the bones, fibrin is necessary in the
formation of the nerves, ligaments, veins, skin, tissue in
fact, all flesh. From a deep realization of this fact, I have
named potassium chloride the spinning salt, for it spins the
threads from which the seamless garment of flesh is woven.
Let us refer to Mercury as the Messenger of the Gods, or
ruling powers from Mt. Olympus, the cerebrum. Let us pic
ture for ourselves the character of the message that Mercury
held in itself from the past. From what pattern did it recon
struct the garment which serves in this incarnation? What is
the texture of our Mercury what of the garments commonly
known as mind and body? Is the mind capable of boring
[95]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
like a gimlet into a subject, revealing hidden treasures of
truth?
Is it able to stand, towering like an impregnable fortress
of strength against the blows of adversity and sorrow which
sooner or later come to test each one of us? Do we find
reason tottering and mental confusion resulting when difficult
situations arise? Are we fearful and panicky, lonely, home
sick and discouraged? Are we stiff, lame and rheumatic as
the years go by? Do we find some symptom more or less
constantly manifesting, until, finally, there is no mental or
physical rest, and life becomes merely a painful existence,
death at last coming as a blessed relief?
Such, then, is the Mercury we brought with us into incarna
tion. It was intended by the Great Chemist to be argentum
vivum or living silver, but we were prodigal sons in our past
incarnations; and in the depths to which we descended this
silver became polluted. That which is so quick to attract to
itself became an amalgum which indeed chained us to the mire
and filth of earth.
Mercury's wings seem to have been broken. Instead of
soaring into the higher realm of mind which is the result of
the expansion of a purified and living silver in the spinal canal
(our physiological thermometer and barometer), Mercury
has been coagulated with lead by Saturn. Heavy, instead of
light, are those winged feet. Mind (Mercury) functions very,
very slowly and crudely (Saturn) and we drag ourselves along
as though weighted down with lead, Saturn's allocating metal.
Is it strange, then, that lead coagulates mercury, and is the
only metal having the power to do so?
What is the process whereby we may free our mercury from
the burden of impurities it bears both the tangible, physical
mercury and the intangible, abstract Mercury of mind? By
exactly the same process used by the chemist by raising its
vibrations and vaporizing it. Remember our Mercury is a
true creature of the air the height is its home. Gemini is an
air sign. Mercury originated in Aries, it was GOLD there,
but in the LOWER regions it became ARGENTUM
VIVUM, living silver or the WATER OF LIFE.
Its passage-way, the spinal canal, is both the River
Euphrates and the Jordan. By this process of vaporization
all incumbrances fall away. In metallurgy we are informed
that when minute quantities of either gold or silver can not
[%]
Gemini and Kali Mur
be extracted from a mass, they are mixed with mercury, to
which the precious particles are attracted. It picks up just as
the mind does, either that which is valuable or valueless. The
mercury is separated and vaporized, and the gold or silver is
released.
Thus we find that Mercury is a symbol of Mind, free at last
of all that would prevent its soaring into those realms where
only pure Spirit is at home. When the brain is at last com
pletely purified and perfected, which means that it is formed
of the ultimate chemical atoms, this will be possible. Why do
we delay this Divine Messenger on his journey back to Olym
pus? Obviously because we have not known that road or the
direction in which it lies. Perhaps until recently we had not
wished to journey; or dreamed, ever so vaguely, of the golden
glory and the peace beyond words to be found at the journey's
end.
And so, once more, let us take up the threads of Gemini
and review, again, the ancient story of the Caduceus
of Mercury. Although it is used as the symbol of healing
by the American and British Medical Corps, how many
physicians among them know of its immemorial metaphysical
and physiological tradition? About as many as those having
knowledge of the real interpretation of Freemasonry, of
Astrology or Christianity.
A cut made from a photograph of a beautiful bronze
Mercury accompanies this article, in order that it may be
studied in connection with it.
Mercury, as has been explained, means mind, also that
through which mind expresses in the physical body, namely,
the cerebro-spinal system or semi-fluidic material which con
stitutes soul. Spirit must have a medium through which
to impress the dense physical atoms. It is our psyche, the
tender mother substance which can be more easily manipulated.
Spirit is not soul, neither is soul Spirit; but how often we find
these terms used interchangeably. They should not be. The
Scriptures state that body, soul and Spirit exist, the first two
being detachable and subject to dissolution.
Mercury, poised on winged feet on the lips of Gaia or
Mother Earth, the right arm lifted and forefinger pointed
directly overhead, is crowned with a winged hat. In the left
hand and grasped by a handle extending from the middle pole
or wand, is the caduceus, resting against the forearm and in
[97]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
the hollow made by the elbow. A very short distance from
the top of this wand are two wings. Twined around the pole
with their bodies meeting and crossing at four points are two
serpents, their heads turned inward and toward it.
Study carefully the position in which the caduceus is held.
Ordinarily the natural way of holding a thing is outward or
forward a little away from the body. The reader will note
that the arm is forced backward and away from the body,
instead, an unnatural and awkward position.
This was planned as a means of attracting one's attention
to its relation to the back of Mercury, for the wand is the
spine, and we find this fact expressed in Hindu literature as
the stick of Brahm. Brahmarhandra (Spirit or the Bee) enters
the body through the Door of Brahm (suture in the skull)
and leans on his stick. The backbone is the support of the body,
and there is much more to this statement than appears on the
surface, for does not lack of character mean a weak back
bone? In terms of Masonry it certainly does, in spite of the
French pronunciation of the Pass-word. In Hebraic literature
the back bone is the Rod of Moses. Thus we learn that the
same story, the fall and rise of man, is universal among all
nations and peoples.
The meaning of spine is thorn, and that is exactly what
it looks like, the skull forming its head and the coccyx its
point. As flesh is torn and bruised on contacting a thorn,
so does the point of our own individual thorn in the flesh bleed
us of the Water of Life and torture us to madness. (See
Pisces). The spinal canal is humanity's Euphrates and its
Jordan.
The wings on the hat of Mercury represent the two hemis
pheres of the brain, our thinking cap. The two serpents are
symbolical of the right and left sympathetic systems, and cor
respond to the two thieves of the Bible story. For when life
is lived negatively, they steal from us.
The winged pole of Mercury is the Tree of Life, while the
serpents correspond to the Tree of Knowledge of Good and
Evil. One is the sensory system, the other the motor, the
latter planned to work in harmony with the former, doing the
work pertaining to motion. Perverted it becomes E-MO-
TION, energy wasted, substance lost.
All around us today we see its effect, humanity as a whole
[98]
Gemini and Kali Mur
floundering in chaos a sea of emotion. Why was the symbol
of the Lion allocated with Leo, away back in the morning
of time? Why is it the only beast of prey symbol in the entire
circle of the zodiac? Because it has to do with the process of
SELF-CONTROL, the taming of the beast in man, the
EMOTIONS WHICH TEAR US TO PIECES AND
CONSUME US. Bear this in mind when reading the chapter
dealing with Leo and note its interesting chemical explanation.
The heads of the two thieves and the heads of the serpents
cross or are crucified at the base of the brain the cerebellum
Taurus. ( See previous lesson ) . The four points of contact are
important centers within the canal.
Lest there be any to whom the foregoing explanation is
not yet clear, let it be further stated, that under the winged
hat is the nectar and ambrosia of the gods that which nour
ishes. It is the electricity of life which runs the body, and
with which we think. It forms the protoplasmic basis of all
the fluids of the body including the pro-creative. This fact will
ere long be scientifically accepted. See Lesson Ten, Capri
corn, for further information relative to this statement.
No wonder then, that Mercury was said to be a patron
of merchants and thieves, the former supposed (devoid of
perversion) to deal legitimately with goods, the latter taken
by stealth, without reimbursing. Here we note the distinction
between the positive and the negative mind, one functioning
constructively, the other destructively. As the positive mind,
Mercury expands under the rapid vibrations (heat) of Spirit;
as the negative, he is cold, congealed stagnant.
In the study of Schuessler's Biochemic System, as set forth
by Dr. Carey and other writers, we note how the symptoms
arising from deficient Kali mur check with the last statement
of the foregoing paragraph, for the spinning process stops,
the threads thicken, tangle; and the parts feel enlarged,
congested, swollen. The thread or fiber takes up too much
room. This is the true explanation for swellings, glandular
enlargements, etc., etc.
Thick blood or embolus results from need of this salt,
causing the heart to work harder, as more energy is required
to circulate the blood. Biochemistry states that Kali mur is a
specific for children's diseases, for they have to do with dis
turbances in the fibrin, and are usually accompanied by exuda
tions through the skin, as in scarlet fever, measles, chicken
[99]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
pox, or in swollen glands, and throat irritation such as diph
theria, tonsilitis, mumps, etc. And to the degree in which iron
or Ferrum phos (the squaring Pisces salt) is deficient, fever
will manifest.
Inflammatory rheumatism has to do with the fibers or
threads of flesh deficient in this Gemini salt, and is augmented
by the need for more oxygen due to iron deficiency. The brain
becomes congested because the blood is thick and circulation
slow, causing it to feel dull and heavy. One is unable to think
clearly. The thread of thought is broken. It must be repeated
that the basis of all fibrin is Kali mur; but, as there are many
different uses for it, the fibers are differentiated by the addi
tion of other minerals, or inorganic salts. When these salts
are put together combined with the protoplasm formed
by
the cerebrum, they become organic which merely means put
together as bricks with mortar.
Joseph of the Bible story
is
the Mercury of astrology.
Is
not his coat of many colors symbolical of the countless shades
and hues of thought? The mental as well as the physical gar
ment
is
SEAMLESS. Religion, so absolutely and entirely per
verted down the ages, begins now to blossom forth as
a
new
and wondrous story, and we realize at last that each indi
vidual has his own Tree
of
Life, his own Garden of Eden. No
one but himself can destroy that tree. No one but himself can
cultivate
it
or supply
it
with nutriment, so that
in
time
it
may
bear twelve kinds of perfect fruit (the twelve divisions of the
body). This process means THE OVER-COMING OF
DEATH. Barring accidents, no one dies except from dis-ease,
and even the former will be done away with as the cerebral
centers having to do with intuition are perfected, for one will
then be forewarned.
It
is
very interesting to note that both Castor and Pollux
have dual and seemingly contradictory interpretations. For
while
it
is
a
fact that Castor
is
derived from castus, meaning
pure, while Pollux means to taint or pollute, yet, at the
same time when we analyze the Latin derivation, polluere,
(literally meaning to wash forth) we divide the word into
POLL and LUX. Here we have the basis of another inter
pretation. Poll
is
the Middle English word for top of the
head, which physiologically
is
the source
of
light or under
standing, while lux means light. We have here the source of
[100]
Gemini and Kali Mur
the compound word HEAD-LIGHT. It is the light of the
higher understanding which enables us to become purified.
The word cast means to throw violently, to cast off, to
shed, etc. It also means to expurge. This conglomeration
of dual meanings for both Castor and Pollux substantiates
the statement that each alternately goes to a higher vibration
(living in heaven one day) and to a lower (living in the earth
the next day). ; .....
When the information embodied in the sign Gemini: as'-,
acquired, humanity will strive more and more to live" positive*
ly,
creatively and no longer destructively, thus dividing-. its'
merchandise, the bread which comes down from heaven daily
TO FEED it. Mercury, the Great Physician, will at last
fulfill his divine mission, which
is
to heal all diseases. Do not
become confused
by
this statement and say, "Yes,
I
know that
mind can heal," and forget the fact that on the mater-ial plane
of expression the cerebrospinal system
is
Mercury also. One
can not get along without the other. BOTH require susten
ance food corresponding to their own individual needs.
Other symptoms arising from lack of this salt are
:
hawking
of thick, white mucus; sick headache from sluggish liver
want of bile; thick, white mucus from the eyes; granulated
eyelids; earache, with swelling of glands and gray or white-
furred tongue; catarrhal condition of the middle ear, crack
ing noises; dullness of hearing from throat affections or swell
ing of the middle ear; stuffy colds
in
the head; thick, white
discharge from the throat; catarrh; faceache from swelling
of gums or cheek; canker of the mouth; ulcerated sore throat
(this salt
is
a
specific for all throat troubles when used with
Nat. mur and Ferrum phos)
;
mumps; poor appetite from
sluggish liver; gastritis; constipation; typhoid; smallpox;
cancer; peritonitis; cystitis; gonorrhea; syphilis; leucorrhea,
when discharge
is
thick and white; pneumonia; pleurisy;
coughs; embolism (thick blood); poor circulation; rheuma
tism; all swellings; rheumatism of the joints; chief remedy
in
epilepsy; acne; boils; chronic swelling of the feet and legs;
creaking of the muscles; all swellings; eczema, with white,
floury scales; erysipelas; children's diseases; glandular swell
ings; typhoid and typhus fever; rheumatic fever. Pains are
increased and aggravated by motion.
Faith without works
is
dead, and
in
all work material
is
re
quired. We can never separate ourselves from this fact, for
[101]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
it is purely scientific. It is the basis for the following state
ment taken from the ninth chapter and the twelfth verse of
Matthew:
"THEY THAT BE WHOLE NEED NOT A
PHYSICIAN."
and again,
"PHYSICIAN, HEAL THYSELF."
[102]
Chapter IV
THE ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF CANCER
AND CALCIUM FLUORIDE
''I am constant as the northern star,
Of whose true-fix'd and resting quality
There is no fellow in the firmament.
The skies are painted with unnumber'd sparks;
They are all fire, and every one doth shine;
But there's but one in all doth hold his place."
Shakespeare.
HEN the Sun reaches its highest northern limit and
begins to go backward toward the south, it is transit
ing the constellation of Cancer, the crab, which is the
fourth sign of the zodiac; and, indeed, like the crustacean
whose name it bears, its return is sideways. Its journey begins
approximately June 21, and continues until July 22. Physio
logically it pertains to the breast, stomach and spleen, and
governs expansion and contraction, elasticity and tenacity. It
is ruled by the Moon whose expansive and contractile nature
is expressed by the terms waxing and waning, and is the most
fertile or productive of the twelve zodiacal signs. As this
silver orb is mistress of the night, so Nature's most occult
work THAT OF THE FORMATION AND FERTIL
IZATION OF SEED is carried on under cover of dark
ness and with the utmost secrecy.
In ancient lore, Cancer is termed the house of physical
conception, while Capricorn, the opposite sign, is concerned
with Spiritual conception. Porphyry tells us that "the
Egyptians employed every year a talisman in remembrance
of the world; at the summer solstice (when the Sun is in
Cancer) they marked their houses, flocks and trees with red,
supposing that on that day the whole world had been set on
fire."
It was also at the same period that they celebrated the
Pyrrhic (fire) dance. "And," says Olney, "this illustrates
the origin of purification by fire and water; for, having de
nominated the tropic of Cancer, 'Gate of Heaven and of heat
or celestial fire,' and that of Capricorn, 'Gate of deluge or
[103]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
of water,' it was imagined THAT THE SPIRITS OR
SOULS WHO PASSED THROUGH THESE GATES,
ON THEIR WAY TO AND FROM HEAVEN, WERE
SCORCHED OR BATHED (italics mine) ; hence the bap
tism of Mithra, and the passage through the flames, observed
throughout the East."
Cancer pertains to fluids, and is said by students of astrology
to be one of the signs of the water triplicity. In my personal
research work into this noble science, I have been able to
glean many new (to this age only) and startling facts by
interpreting the signs Pisces, Scorpio and Cancer as fluidic.
This suggestion may be illustrated by the following: the
fluids of Cancer are the mother's milk (breast) ; the chyle
(digested food elements of the stomach) ; and the white cor
puscles (spleen). All have to do with nutrition. Therefore
none of them represent water, although they contain more or
less of it. The mother's milk nourishes the child, chyle fur
nishes food for the blood corpuscles to which the spleen gives
birth. In another book soon to be published, entitled New
Facts About the Glands, THE REAL FUNCTION OF
THE SPLEEN will be revealed for the first time, I believe,
in this age. Without astrology its secret would not have been
discovered.
Fecundity means to be capable of bearing fruit, or the
ability to produce. But this does not mean exclusively impreg
nation of ova. A far greater mystery than this awaits un
veiling.
A most important point must be constantly emphasized
that each sign of the zodiac as well as each planet HAS ONE
BASIC INTERPRETATION which must instantly be re
called whenever a sign or planet is considered. This will give
a solid foundation on which and from which to build up one's
analysis. For the most part, I regret to say, these have not
heretofore been obtainable from works on astrology as they
had not been discovered. Allocation, analysis and synthesis
reveal them.
Max Miiller informs us that Plato had much the same
interpretation of Cancer and Capricorn as the Egyptians, in
that he termed them "the two mouths, the former through
which souls descend, the latter through which they ascend."
When this chapter and the one on Capricorn have been
thoroughly digested by the readers of this book they will
[104]
Cancer and Calcium Fluoride
understand THE REAL STORY THAT ASTROLOGY
TELLS. THAT STORY CONCERNS THE UNDER
STANDING, PURIFICATION, MASTERY AND PER
FECTION OF THE HUMAN BODY and NOTHING
ELSE.
To accomplish this is to become one with all that
is,
hence
to know and understand the Universe, for Gad has overcome
at last. "Be ye perfect even as your Father
in
heaven
is
per
fect." The names of the months, their derivation, the ety
mology of the signs, the analysis of the symbols, and the
planetary interpretations, all actually trumpet forth their
clarion call to humanity freely to help themselves to this
information.
While Max Miiller did not enlarge on the statement he
made or analyze
it
in
any way, nevertheless therein lies the
key to
a
great mystery which has been safely hidden for aeon
upon aeon. "The 'Sons of God,' became the 'fallen angels'
after perceiving that the daughters of men were fair," says
Madam Blavatsky,
in
The Secret Doctrine.
To understand the foregoing statement it will be necessary
to re-read the chapter on Aries, the cerebrum, the Most High,
the House of Gad or God, THE HOUSE OF SPIRITUAL
SEED-ESSE.
It
will dawn on you that Seed-Esse
is
the sub
stance of "The Sons of God," ITS CREATION, ITS PRO
GENY. That which Cancer manifests
is
of the MOTHER
nature, the fluidic, which
is
truly the Daughter
of
Earth, as
well as Mother.
Returning to the mystery we are considering,
of
what do
these souls which descend consist? Remember our fruitful
Taurus, the earth full
of
seeds, made alive and fed by the
manna or bread from heaven Aries. These are the souls
in
very truth the NUCLEI with which the heavenly Crab Can
cer
is
daily, hourly, yes, minute by minute, fed. Ever tire
lessly reaching out its claws, ceaselessly moving up, down and
sideways,
it
seizes upon each microscopic Spirit (soul-seed)
and sweeps
it
into its mouth-like stomach. For this crustacean,
the crab, uniquely has its teeth in that organ.
As the basic idea back of fertility
is
that of SEED, and
as we have already proved that Aries has to do with
Spiritual Seed, or Seed Essence, we have arrived at the
SQUARE, for Cancer
is
ninety degrees from Aries.
Something has consummated;
a
work has been done; and
[105]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
we must now measure it. Aries and Cancer must WORK ON
THE SQUARE with each other. In plain words, CONCEP
TION HAS TAKEN PLACE. The word conception is de
rived from the Latin concipio and literally means, to take to
gether, to hold together. Consider, now, is not that what the
Crab does? It is impossible to make it loosen its hold. Even
though the leg be torn from the body, its claw will not relax.
There is tenacity for you. Memory is tenacity of thought, and
it is well known by astrologers that the fluid-like substance
which Cancer represents is also associated with the brain.
Here again we link up with the seed essence, the esse or sub
stance of being of Aries.
It is well to state at this point even though we have not
yet considered the chemical side of Cancer, that DE
FICIENCY IN CALCIUM FLUORIDE CAUSES ONE
TO BE FORGETFUL. THE THREADS OR FILA
MENTS OF THOUGHT ARE NOT ELASTIC. Kali
mur builds or fashions these threads, but Calcium fluoride
must be blended with and into them to make them ELASTIC
and capable of expanding and contracting. This is a true
chemical statement and physiologically correct as well. Get
out your Gray's Anatomy and read about the webs in your
brain, scientifically termed the Arachnoid (spider) membrane
interposed between the pia mater and the dura mater of the
brain and cord.
It is well known that the brain disease termed lunacy be
comes intensified during certain periods of the moon; and, as
Luna is the ancient name of the moon, we now have the key to
this symptom. The brain fluid or ocean of the Great Mother
is disturbed, the spider-like membranes are starved.
The symbol for the sign Cancer has never been explained,
but the two tiny, hook-like characters lying parallel to each
other but with the hook ends at opposite corners are really
the Hebrew letter YOD. As yod is the tenth in the Jewish
alphabet it stands for that which is complete, and, as it is
the smallest of all letters in that language, it allocates with
SEED or LIFE GERM, which is the most minute cell capable
of reproduction. It corresponds to I, Y and J in English.
Gray's Anatomy states that the perfected life germ is no
larger than the dot over the letter I.
Even Papus, who is one of our very best authorities on the
Kabbala, seems unaware of the wonderful physiological inter
[106]
Cancer and Calcium Fluoride
pretation which throws a great flood of light on the Tarot.
The very first interpretation and the initial key to all occult
writings brought down through the ages is PHYSIO
LOGICAL. When this is understood, the other six keys will
turn much more easily in the lock of truth.
It is well to state at this point that some of the modern
writers on the Kabbala have confused and perverted it. Since
the mind functions through the brain, it is obvious that the
physiological key is the first and most important. The six
are automatically perfected when the physiological work is
accomplished and not otherwise. The study of physiology
and chemistry will alone enable us to live metaphysically.
In Sepher Yetzirah or The Book of Creation, we find this
statement relative to the number ten : "Ten are the numbers
of the ineffable Sephiroth, ten and not nine, ten and not
eleven.
"Learn this wisdom, and be wise in the understanding of it.
investigate these numbers, and draw knowledge from them,
FIX THE DESIGN IN ITS PURITY, and pass from it
to its Creator seated on his throne." The design of anything
in nature is the seed, for in it is hidden the prototype.
A study of the tenth card of the Tarot reveals the fact
that it has to do with force potential in its manifestation,
the union of male and female in nature. Astronomically it
corresponds with the zodiacal sign Virgo, in that it is the
universal or COSMIC MOTHER, although the potential
force itself fecundity is represented by the Moon. Both
stand for the Virgin, the immaculate Mother, for remember
there is no lust connected with the coming together of the
two yods, the male and female germ cells IN EACH INDI
VIDUAL BODY, for such has wholly to do with the BIRTH
OF CORPUSCLES. In plainer words the cells of the body
can not be reproduced unless this takes place. Virgin means
pure, unadulterated, hence no deficiency in the natural or
original material.
Therefore the great secret hidden in the sign Cancer is
that of NATURE'S POWER TO REPRODUCE, other
wise the body would not be able to RECREATE ITSELF
DAILY. Again I repeat that it has to do not with pro-
creative germs, but with the ceaseless formation of corpuscles
within the spleen. In so far as I am aware, this information
has not previously been available in this incarnation. Deep
[107]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
meditation on the esoteric meanings of the zodiacal signs is
the only method whereby information relative to occult
physiology may be obtained. Astrology alone is the treasure
house of arcane knowledge.
It has been my very good fortune to obtain "Researches
into the Primitive Constellations of the Greeks, Phoenicians,
and Babylonians," by Robert Brown, F.S.A. In this book I
have found conclusive proof that my statement that Cancer
is the sign related to the physiological functions having
to do with the implanting of the nucleus or SPIRITUAL
SEED within and the formation of each corpuscle of the body
is true. EROS or heavenly sprite, the spark or flame of life
thrown off from the forge of Vulcan in other words descend
ing from its abode in higher realms into Aries, the cerebrum
is carried into the middle decan of Cancer, the spleen, deep
within its center. Here, like the crab, it reaches out from all
sides of itself and seizes upon all sorts of materials which
may be said to represent every degree and rate of vibration
associated with the circumference of its reach, for it is able
to take from all directions. Every kind of building material
is required to form a seed, for in itself it is a consensus of all
that exists.
The proof referred to above is that on an old Euphratean
Planisphere representing the Babylonian creation scheme, the
sign Cancer is named Su-kulna or "THE SEIZER OF THE
SEED," also "Workmen of the River-bed and Ship of the
Canal of Heaven." The Canal of heaven in astrology is
the Milky Way. And to enlarge on this interpretation, re
viewing the statement made heretofore, CANCER, THE
CRAB, SEIZES THE NUCLEI OR ELECTRIC SEED
SPIRITS ENGENDERED IN ARIES AND FORMS
CORPUSCLES WHICH ARE MINIATURE CRABS.
Again, it is by means of these corpuscles that the human
body is kept alive, and daily recreated. No apology is made for
this repetition, for it is necessary in order to clarify this most
important and mysterious process. The corpuscle is the boat
or ark containing the DIVINE GERM or MOSES.
As the nucleus in the corpuscle is HIGH BORN, having
been created or precipitated in Aries, the cerebrum, the body
built around
it,
as the corpuscle
is
perfected
in
the spleen, can
well be termed an enclosure. Therefore the following quota
tion from "Primitive Constellations," by Robert Brown con
[108]
Cancer and Calcium Fluoride
tributes still further proof of the correctness of my dis
covery :
"The Pole Star is Dugga-Kaga-gilgatil. The primary
meaning of gil, as is also shown by the form of the cuneiform
ideograph, is 'an enclosure.' Til means 'life.' DUGGA-
GILGATIL means 'THE HIGH-ONE-OF-THE-ENCLO-
SURE-OF-LIFE,' and there is much reason to believe that
'the Enclosure-of-Life' of which the Pole-star was lord, is the
famous 'Oblong' formed by the four stars in the pan of the
Little Bear, familiarly termed 'the little dipper.' This par
ticular Oblong, and the connection between Oblongs and the
Quarters or 'Divisions' (Regiones) of the heavens, have been
always referred to; and, as has been noticed, the modern
votaries of Polaris mark out an 'oblong space' the side walls
of which 'run from north to south,' so that it fronts the Pole-
star in the same manner as the celestial oblong of Ursa
Minor fronts the star a Draconis. Here, as so frequently,
terrestrial ritual is based upon, and is a 'pattern' of 'things
in the heavens.'
"
"IT IS NATURAL TO SUPPOSE THAT THERE IS
SOME SPECIAL PLACE IN THE UNIVERSE WHICH
IS, IN AN OCCULT AND PECULIAR MANNER,
THE ABODE OF THE ESSENCE AND SPIRIT OF
LIFE; and it is equally natural to locate this spot in the
heights of the north, ever crowned by the unsinking stars."
"A study of the interpretation of the Egyptian scarabeus
which is this nation's symbol for Cancer, and of the tortoise
of Indian Astrology, furnishes us with further proof. The
former, or Egyptian beetle, lays its egg in a ball of excrement,
and may be seen on sandy slopes in hot sunshine, compacting
the pellet by pushing it backward up hill with its hind legs
and allowing it to roll down again, eventually reaching a
place of deposit. Whatever the Egyptians understood by its
actions, they compared its pellet to the globe of the sun, as
it rolled across the sky. The scarabeus was much used in
Egyptian religions, appearing sometimes with outstretched
wings or WITH A RAM'S HEAD AND HORNS AS
THE VIVIFYING SOUL."
Here we note additional proof of and reference to the close
association of Aries and Cancer, or their mutual work "on the
square" represented by the distance between them, or the
angle of ninety degrees.
[109]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
In many works we find reference to Aries, Cancer,
Libra and Capricorn, the signs constituting the cardinal or
creative cross, as "the gates of heaven," for they include the
solstices and equinoxes. Physiologically these signs have to do
with creative functions, as explained heretofore.
In Smith's Bible Dictionary (1915, D. Appleton & Co.),
we find a curious reference to the sign Cancer as Tammuz,
the name given in ancient Hebrew literature to the Sun when
in this sign.
"
'Ezekiel, the prophet, as he sat in his house
surrounded by the elders of Judah, was transported in spirit
to the far distant temple at Jerusalem (Aries). The hand
of the Lord God was upon him, and led him to the door of
the gate of the House of Jehovah, which was toward the
north (Cancer) ; and beheld there the women sitting, weeping
for Tammuz.' Jerome, in his note on Ez. 8:14, adds that,
according to the Gentile fable, Tammuz had been slain in
June."
This is descriptive of the heat of the Sun decreasing (slain)
by its ceasing to be in a vertical position overhead. Smith
also states that Tammuz may be a name of Adonis, the Sun-
god. Why, I ask, are these references made in Jewish litera
ture to supposed heathen deities? Is it not because they
pertain to the same thing? And indeed, this is true of all
sacred literature.
Additional proof of the most important phase of creation
accomplished by means of the combined efforts of Aries, con
tributing the spiritual or creative germ (seed), and Cancer,
using the seed as a nucleus and building around it the ocean
of semi-fluidic substance necessary for its material form, is
furnished by a study of the constellations in the three decans
of Cancer.
In the first ten degrees we find Ursa Minor, the Little
Bear, or, in ancient astrological lore, THE LESSER SHEEP-
FOLD. It is commonly known as the Little Dipper, the end
star of the handle being North Star, Polaris.
Spencer, in his Faerie Queen, refers to it as the Wagoner,
and again as a timepiece. He refers to Polaris as a guide:
"By this the northern wagoner had set
His sevenfold teme behind the steadfast starre
That was in ocean waves never yet wet,
But firme is fixt, and sendith light from farre
To all that in the wide deep wandering arre."
[HO]
Cancer and Calcium Fluoride
"In the early days of Greek navigation it was used as a
guide and was paralleled in the deserts of Arabia, through
which travelers direct their course by the Bears in the same
manner as is done at sea," says Richard Hinckley Allen in
his Star Names and Their Meanings.
Mrs. Sigourney, in her poem, The Stars, writing of
Polaris, describes:
"The weary caravan, with chiming bells,
Making strange music 'mid the desert sands,
Guides by thy pillar'd fires its nightly march."
and Keats in his Robin Hood:
" the seven stars to light you,
On the polar way to right you."
Richard Allen also says that "Delitzsch writes that even
today the group of stars is known as a BIER in Syria; Flam-
marion attributing this title to the slow and solemn motion
of the figure around the pole. This seems to have originated
in Arabia ; and from it comes the titles even now occasionally
heard for the quadrangle stars the BIER and the GREAT
COFFIN. With the early Arab poets, these stars were an
emblem of laziness."
Analyzing the above, it is clear that the charge of laziness
coincides well with the slow movements of the crab, while
the Arabian interpretation of Bier and Great Coffin is inti
mately related to Cancer's mysterious CREATION OF
BODIES, the miniature ones' or the corpuscles. The root
of corpus means BODY. As the word coffin is derived from
the Greek kophinos, meaning basket or chest, it is clear that
it indeed does refer to the enclosing of a minute body (a
nucleus from the cerebrum or Aries) within the casket or chest.
This process consists of a network or delicate web formed
in the BOSOM of Mother Nature. Thus within the spleen
is formed the TRUE PHYSIOLOGICAL SEED (THE
CORPUSCLES OF THE BODY). THE SPLEEN
ALLOCATES WITH THE MIDDLE DECAN OF
THIS SIGN.
Students may ask wherein lies the proof for the statement
that the spleen pertains to the middle decan. It is to be found
in the allocation of that gland with Saturn, according to
ancient tradition. As Saturn's interpretation is always SEED,
we have to find in the sign Cancer (because of the fact that
[111]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
the spleen is located close to the stomach) the place where
the exact vibration of Saturn and Capricorn is located. This
can be found by dividing each decan into four parts of two
and one-half degrees each, and allocating them with the signs
of the zodiac.
To explain to those not familiar with this process (which
is not new, although I did not know it when I discovered
and used it), the ancients had a separate zodiac for each
month, which revealed much more, as it brought out each
minute point in detail. Illustrating with Cancer, the first two
and one-half degrees are strongly Cancerian. The next two
and one-half are related to Leo, the next two and one-half
to Virgo and with the degrees allocating with Libra, com
plete the first decan.
As Scorpio rules the first two degrees and one-half of this
vibration, this constitutes the explanation for the assignment
of rulers to the decans. Ultimately this is how we will slowly
rediscover all astrological information; and, in doing so, obtain
our proofs of its correctness.
Proceeding with the division of the middle decan of Cancer,
the first two and one-half degrees allocates with Scorpio, next
with Sagittarius and the following two and one-half degrees
with Capricorn. As the middle decan of a sign is its matrix,
naturally this would constitute the logical place for this deeply-
hidden process. Here the 'Great Mother, brooding in dark
ness, the Womb of Nature, lays both her cosmic and physio
logical eggs THE CORPUSCLES.
Before presenting still more proof from ancient writers, I
wish again to call attention to the fact that I have not dealt
with or referred to PROCREATIVE GERMS OR COR
PUSCLES, for they are entirely different and must be con
sidered under Scorpio. The particular function of the latter
sign has to do with ANIMAL OR ANIMALIZED COR
PUSCLES, this being another revelation which much research
has uncovered, and WHICH CONSTITUTES IRREFUT
ABLE EVIDENCE OF THE ORIGINAL AND FUNDA
MENTAL PURPOSE OF ASTROLOGY. At the same
time it reveals the secret of LIFE, DEATH, and IMMOR
TALITY IN AND OF THE FLESH.
Returning to our study of the constellations in the decans,
we find Ursa Major or the Great Bear associated with the
[112]
Cancer and Calcium Fluoride
wonderful Arcturus, the GUARDIAN AND KEEPER, and
interpreted by the ancients as the GREATER SHEEPFOLD.
As a sheepfold is where sheep are housed, this constitutes
another proof of the co-operation between these two "gates
of heaven." Aries is the creator of the sheep or nuclei, the
Spiritual germ-seeds; and Cancer, the place where these
"sheep" are housed.
Arcturus is derived from two Greek derivatives, arktos,
meaning bear, and ouros, keeper. A family of crustaceans
is termed Arcturidae. The word bear really has the same
meaning as the verb to bear, bring forth, support, sustain.
Therefore we note the idea of sustenance, which again allo
cates with the underlying idea of Cancer, the breast, stomach
and spleen. Perhaps we now have a better understanding of
what was really meant by the Biblical statement, "Feed my
lambs," John 21 :15. It should be interpreted physiologically.
In other words, furnish the nuclei of your corpuscles with
sufficient material so they will remain. Thereby is Spirit sup
ported, or kept within the body.
Innumerable other proofs are available, but we have space
for only a few more. When Egypt began to be influenced by
Greece, we find this constellation regarded as the CAR OF
OSIRIS and shown on some of the planispheres by an ARK
or BOAT. The corpuscle carries the spiritual germ or nucleus
(Osiris) surrounded by fluid. As Cancer is ruled by the
Moon whose Egyptian name was Isis, the allocation is com
plete. We find, too, that the Moon carries or reflects the
light from the Sun, which means that it is its reflection in the
ambient ether or akasha.
Popular names for this constellation are: the BROOD
HEN, the significance of which is undeniable; Ship of Saint
Peter, the Ladle or Big Dipper (its common name today) ;
while in southern France it is known as the Casserole or
Saucepan. All, with the exception of the Ship of Saint Peter,
pertain to nutriment.
To the Mohammedan, Cancer was Al Fass, the Hole in
which the earth's axle found its bearing (bear-'mg) . The Per
sians called it Ihlilgji, or Date-palm Seed or Fruit. The early
Danes and Icelanders knew the Lesser Bear or Ursa Minor
as the Smaller Chariot (carrier) or Throne of Thor, which
is another proof of the correctness of my findings, since Thor
is the spark or electrical seed-germ from Aries and becomes
[113]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
enthroned in Cancer, the spleen. Their descendants also call
it Fiosakonur a lopti, the Milkmaids of the Sky, which allo
cates with the breast under this sign.
Prof. Whitney quotes from the sixty-second verse of the
first chapter of the Surya Siddhanta :
" The mountain which is the SEAT of the gods;"
and again:
"The 'seat of the gods' is Mount Meru, situated at the north pole."
As the sign Cancer is in the north and the stars in this
constellation revolve around the Pole-star, the seat of the
gods refers respectively to corpuscle and nucleus. It is well
known that Polaris is 1° 14' distant from the exact pole.
"It is the Load-star or Lodestar of the early English
authors. The Chinese had several names for it Pih Keih;
Ta Shin; Tien Hwang and Ta Ti, The Great Imperial Ruler
of Heaven. In earliest Northern India the star nearest the
pole was known as Grahadhara, or the 'Pivot of the Planets,'
Arcturus, the brightest star in this constellation, has been
mentioned from earliest times and we find in Job 38:32, the
following reference: 'Canst thou guide Arcturus with his
sons?" says Richard Allen.
Early fable attributes the guardianship of Cancer to Mer-
cury,which, without the explanation given of the true function
of the spleen would not be clear. It depends upon Mercury
(mind and nerves) whether the keres of life (in other words,
the Spiritual seed) shall be dragged down into hell or allowed
to return to heaven. In that sense Mercury is its guardian.
In Chaldean and Platonist philosophy Cancer was also said
to be the Gate of Men, through which souls descended from
heaven into human bodies. Here we have the word soul used
when it should have been spirit, for soul is of strictly physical
formation, being the brain and glandular esse, formed by
Spirit or electricity (fire) contacting or drawn down into
matter (mother) and producing moisture or the fluidic essence
termed soul. This fire draws moisture out of the earth, and
when the nature of all twelve mineral salts is understood, as
explained in these articles, it is made clear why one salt will
attract moisture to use it while another will attract to
eliminate; why one salt attracts and holds fire, while another
cools and allays inflammation, etc.
The great mystery embodied in Cancer is the Descent of
[114]
Cancer and Calcium Fluoride
the Demiurge or Artificer, in other words, the "Supreme
Architect" of the Freemasons. That we may not lose sight
of the physiological explanation, the electron or nucleus which
is Osiris in its car or casket, is the CORPUSCLE FORMED
BY MOTHER ISIS in the spleen. Gray's Anatomy states
that the function of this organ is not known. I have now
given you its exoteric physiological use, but it will be explained
in my next book, The Truth about Birth and Its Control, and
in New Facts about the Glands.
In the Book of Dzyan (Tibetan Book of Wisdom) it is
stated that "Darkness radiates Light, and Light (Aries)
drops one solitary ray into the waters, into the Mother Deep.
The ray shoots through the virgin-egg; the ray causes the
eternal egg to thrill, and drop the non-eternal (periodical)
germ, which condenses into the world (physical) egg." And
again :"The mystery of apparent self-generation and evolution
through its own creative power repeating in miniature the
process of Cosmic evolution in the egg, both being due to
heat (sun in Leo) and moisture under the efflux of the unseen
creative spirit" (seed germ from Aries) is undeniably true
of the spleen's work in creating and fructifying human eggs
or corpuscles.
Statements in sacred books relative to"the churning of the
ocean" are symbolic of the mother liquor or nutritive fluid
from which all forms proceed. Not only does it apply to the
churning motion of the stomach, but to the other fertile parts
which allocate with Scorpio and Pisces.
Cancer is the MOST productive, the most important of
the three fluidic signs, for without it no corpuscles can be
formed. Therefore, no possible creation or RECREATION
of the human body could take place.
The Moon is "the Cow of Plenty," in Hindu literature,
and when EXALTED IN TAURUS is serving its DIVINE
purpose of CONSERVING ITS SACRED AMRITAM
OR SOMA JUICE. This in plain English means the
CREATIVE FLUID FROM ARIES. Perhaps this state
ment may serve to throw light on the Biblical reference to
"the land flowing with milk and honey." Remember, in the
chapter on Aries it is proved that there are MAMMILLARY
GLANDS IN THE CEREBRUM. These fluids reappear
later on in Cancer, ruling the BREAST, STOMACH and
SPLEEN. They have taken on a lower vibration and more
[115]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
of a physiological or dense character. They now become of
earthly sustenance, where before they were HEAVENLY.
The astrological Milky Way has its physiological analogy in
the descent of the brain or cerebral milk from the mammillary
glands in the head, the positive pole of creation. In Cancer
these glands constitute the negative pole.
Madam Blavatsky says, most truly, "The Law of Analogy
is the first key to the world problem, and these links have to
be studied co-ordinately in their occult relations to each
other."
There is no doubt concerning the function of the spleen
referred to in the following quotation from the Stanzas of
Dzyan: "The great Chohans (Lords) called the Lords of
the Moon, of the airy bodies: 'Bring forth men, (they were
told), men of your nature. Give them their forms within.
She, (Mother Earth or Nature) will build coverings without.
For Males-Females will they be. Lords of the Flame, also.'
Thus the lunar spirits (Aries sparks), became the creative
Elohim of FORM, or the Adam of dust." There are innum
erable other statements indeed an entire book could be
written on the sign Cancer but we will add one more, and
from the same source, Madam Blavatsky: "The Ark, in which
is preserved the germs of all living things necessary to re-
people the earth, represents the survival of life, and the
supremacy of Spirit over matter, through the conflict of the
opposing powers of nature. In the Astro-Theosophic chart
of the Western Rite, the Ark corresponds with the navel, and
is placed at the sinister side, the side of the woman (the
moon) one of whose symbols is the left pillar of Solomon's
temple Boaz, pituitary, in the head. The umbilicus is con
nected with the receptacle in which are fructified the germs
of the race."
Man is the integral part of the race one body, while the
corpuscles within him, and of which he is built up, consti
tute the germs of the race, the seed-germ being the nucleus.
The Demiurge is the Logos, the WORD which was in the
beginning, hence THE SEED. "THE SEED IS THE
WORD OF GOD." Luke 8:11.
Before dealing with the chemical correspondence, a few
references taken from G. A. Gaskell's Dictionary of the
Sacred Language of Scriptures and Myths" must be given,
[1161
Cancer and Calcium Fluoride
as they link up metaphysically with the physiological inter
pretation of this sign:
"Cancer is a symbol of the fourth (it is the fourth sign)
period of the cycle of life. It signifies the lower mind (pre
ceding sign, Gemini) energized from the astral plane.
"The crab or the tortoise (Indian sign of Cancer) is a
symbol of the lower nature into which the soul descends in
evolution." We here note that he uses the word soul when
it should be Spirit.
Again, in writing of the HIGHER aspect of the MOON
(exalted in Taurus), he says: "a symbol of Buddha as con
taining the transmuted results of the experience of the lower
self." Also: "When the spiritual monad, or Individuality,
quits the lower nature, it passes into the energized higher
mental vehicle, or causal-body, and from thence unites with
the Higher Self. Fortified by this union, it passes upward
through the Buddhic plane (moon) and becomes merged in
Love eternal on the plane of Atma."
In its lower aspect "the moon is a symbol of the lower self
the personality. This includes the astral principle of the
lower nature, namely desire, and also the form or matter side
of nature, which was developed in the lunar cycles on the lunar
globes. The Sun is Spirit, matter is the Moon." Prasna
Upanishad, 1. 5.
Plutarch, in "Face in the Moon's Orb," says: "For the
moon herself, out of desire for the sun, revolves round and
comes in contact with him because she longs to derive from
him the generative principle." Mr. Gaskell interprets the
above as: "The lower self, attracted to the Higher Self,
evolves through the life cycle : for the soul longs for REGEN
ERATION and immortal union with the Higher Self in the
causal body, WHEREIN THE TWO SELVES BECOME
ONE."
In his Sermons, A. McLaren says: "If the unseen is ever
to rule in men's lives it must be through their thoughts. It
must become intelligible, clear, real. It must be brought out
of the flickering moonlight of fancy and surmises, into the
sunlight of certitude and knowledge."
Because the great majority of humanity is living in its
desire nature we see personality overshadowing yes, almost
entirely darkening the Individuality. We find insanity in
creasing by leaps and bounds; incompetency, in vast degree.
[1171
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
In a recent issue of The Literary Digest (May 23, 1931),
we are given sufficient proof of the truth of the foregoing
statements: "In Mississippi alone the cost of caring for one
feeble-minded person is $714. As there are about 600,000
such defectives in the country, the cost of their care, in segre
gation, would be enormous."
Officials think they have solved the problem by endeavoring
to pass a general or country-wide law for sterilization. This
will be about as morally effective as the use of contraceptives
in birth control. In neither instance is the real problem dealt
with. No training or teaching has been formulated which
will prevent incompetency. This lack in itself constitutes a
crime.
Recalling the fact that Gemini deals with children (the
sparks) the SONS of GOD, Aries, we now find them in
Cancer clothed with material forms, corpuscles or bodies.
They have actually been caught in nets, in the salt water, the
MARE or mary of the human body, and now have web-like
suijoj
We will consider the allocation of this sign with Calcium
or lime fluoride. In Dr. Carey's Biochemic System of Medi
cine we note the following: "It occurs in nature as mineral
fluor-spar, beautifully crystallized, of various colors, in lead
veins, the crystals having commonly the cubic, but sometimes
the octohedral form, parallel to the faces of which latter figure
they always cleave. Some varieties, when heated, emit a
greenish, and some a purple, phosphorescent light.
"To know that a certain inorganic cell-salt is indicated by
certain symptoms, is one thing; but to know the process by
which it works to accomplish certain results, is quite another
thing. The fluoride of lime is found in the enamel of teeth,
connective tissue and the elastic fiber of all muscular tissue.
A lack of elastic fiber in muscular tissue causes falling of the
womb, varicose veins,* and a general 'sagging-down' feeling.
When a deficiency in this lime-salt, and consequently a de
ficiency of elastic fiber, occurs in the connective tissue between
the cerebrum and the cerebellum, an abnormal process of
thought occurs, causing groundless fears of financial ruin."
A contribution which I humbly offer as the result of years
of experience and research, is the following: as all web or
Natrium mur is also required, as indicated by Venus in Aquarius in many
charts.
[118]
Cancer and Calcium Fluoride
spider-like formations in the body must contain this salt, it
is obvious that the Arachnoid (spider-web) membrane which
envelops the brain and cord must require a large proportion
of calcium fluoride in its composition.
The following from Gray's Anatomy is conclusive proof:
"The Arachnoid consists of bundles of white fibrinous and
elastic tissue, intimately blended together. Its outer surface
is covered with a layer of low cuboidal mesothelium. The inner
surface and the trabecular are likewise covered by a somewhat
low type of cuboidal mesothelium, which in places are flattened
to a pavement type. Vessels of considerable size, but few in
number, and according to Bochdalek, a rich plexus of nerves
derived from the motor root of the trigeminal, the facial and
the accessory nerves, are found in the Arachnoid."
The outstanding fact in the above statement is that "the
Arachnoid CONSISTS OF WHITE, FIBRINOUS AND
ELASTIC TISSUE, intimately blended together," all of
which is characteristic of Calcium fluoride, as was previously
quoted from Dr. Carey's Biochemic System. As this salt is
known to be a natural FLUX, or substance which promotes
the fusing of minerals and metals, it will be at once realized
that, unless this salt is present in sufficient quantity, the fibrin
ous and elastic character of tissues change, losing these prop
erties. The result is a prolapsed condition, a general flabbi-
ness, a good example being a piece of rubber from which the
elasticity has departed.
Here we must again call to mind the fact that as Cancer
is ruled by the moon, which is known to be closely associated
with the brain, many very peculiar mental conditions are noted
in Biochemistry as arising from deficiency in Calcium fluoride.
The following are outstanding examples : fear of poverty,
HOLDING ON LIKE THE CRAB to every cent, scarcely
"LETTING GO" to purchase even bare necessities. One
of the earliest symptoms of need of this salt is FORGET-
FULNESS, which means lack of mental elasticity. When fear
is present, whether in respect to one's finances or other mat
ters, it indicates decreasing mental tenacity. One loses one's
grip or positivity.
As Aries, the cerebrum, forms an angle of ninety degrees
with Cancer (indicating that these two are associated in work
which must be done "on the square"), when Calcium fluoride
and Kali phos become very deficient there is an actual SEPA
[119]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation.
RATION which takes place, and it becomes extremely diffi
cult, and in severe cases impossible, to express one's self.
Indeed, ideas are conspicuous by their absence.
It is quite common to meet people who are at a loss for
words. When conversing, they hesitate, repeat, and some
minutes pass before they are able to state what they have in
mind. It seems to me that words are actually held in leash
by elastic threads. When they begin to lose elasticity, they
are unable to contract so tightly. The memory fails to con
tact them, the electricity of thought is unable to flow freely
along its natural grooves.
Imagine, if you can, these spidery filaments, which in health
are quiescent, beginning to reach out hungrily for the mineral
substance which is their food calcium fluoride. Is it not
easy to understand how creepy, crawling sensations within the
brain are indicative of need of this salt? Particularly within
the last few years has this symptom been common, and those
having it say they fear insanity. A contraction of these fibers
causes a feeling of tightness and constriction.
The old slang phrase, "You have cobwebs on the brain," is
a physiological fact; and indeed, as Dr. Carey stated in his
article on that subject, such expressions are based on truth,
but clothed in common vernacular.
On re-reading the description of the Arachnoid, quoted
from Gray's Anatomy, please note carefully this sentence:
"Its outer surface is covered with a layer of low CUBOIDAL
mesothelium." Cuboidal means formed like a cube, which is
a solid bounded by SIX equal squares and having all its angles
right angles. It is the third power of a quantity. THE
PRODUCT OF THREE EQUAL FACTORS.
This wonderful Cancer-sign salt, then, must have the power
to produce or create a triune product, since each and every
element in nature moves in a certain direction and at a certain
rate (vibration), and not until the element changes are direc
tion and rate of motion or vibration affected. Calcium fluoride
then, has the VIBRATION OF A TRINITY. Six or sex
consists of two threes, or two trinities, a masculine, we may
say, and a feminine. It will be seen how well this applies to
the sign, for THIS IS THE WORK IT DOES. Cancer is
feminine, prolific, the most fertile of the twelve zodiacal signs
and parts of the human body. But remember, students of
astrology, you will not understand WHY, unless you recall the
[120]
Cancer and Calcium Fluoride
discovery that the SPLEEN forms one of the three organs
associated with this sign, and in it corpuscles are created.
Even the symbol of this fourth sign of the zodiac, the crab
or scarabaeus, bears out the cuboid description in the three
fold or triune stages through which the tiny crab and beetle
pass before full development is attained. As man is animal,
human, and divine, he corresponds to the three different indi
vidual germ-states or seeds upon which the triune nature
depends.
Let us again review the fact that his spiritual seed-germ
is precipitated in Aries, the cerebral essence, the BREAD
from HEAVEN. In Taurus it starts on its journey; and, on
arriving in the spleen, becomes a human germ or corpuscle
(not a procreative germ) by uniting the material sent down
by the pituitary gland with the FEMALE GERM WHICH
THE SPLEEN PRODUCES.
Thus is SOUL created, an earthly product. The soul or
corpuscles must be nourished by the chyle formed by the diges
tion of food and when, for any one of several reasons, this
is interfered with, these individual and diminutive bodies be
come weak and unable to do their work. For man's body is
a collection of bodies. And again, his permanent or Spiritual
body, his Erotes, are the collection of sparks from the celestial
fire.
The third or animal phase which each must pass through
is concerned with a very great mystery which will be dealt with
in the second volume of God-Man, also in New Facts About
the Glands. But we must realize that the differentiation of a
corpuscle necessary to produce a procreative germ cell can
only be accomplished in the testes and ovaries, as considered
in Chapter Eight.
The above should prove indubitably that the symbol of
the crab or scarabaeus was well chosen
it,
too, represents
three different stages of development.
It
is
also interesting
to note that the beetle or scarabaeus buries its eggs
in
the
material which
is
to serve as shelter, warmth and food for
them. In the human body, the immortal egg or spiritual germ
is
buried
in
the same way when
it
reaches Scorpio.
As the beetle or scarabaeus buries its eggs
in
excrement we
find here an analogy to Capricorn, or the sacrum, the great
nerve ganglia controlling sexual activities. In ancient writings
dealing with occult matters, the Pelican
is
said to be buried
[121]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
in horse dung. Only students of facts will recognize the sim
ilarity of expression. Physicists know that the lower part
of the spine is termed the Cauda equina or tail of the horse,
and the sacrum is in this region, near the back passage. In
Greek mythology this is the Augean stable which required a
thorough cleansing. It is absolutely true when interpreted
physiologically. The esoteric meaning of Pelican is Christ.
No doubt some readers will instantly say, "What sacrilege!"
It is well, therefore, to state here and now, that Christ is a
Greek word meaning oil, a HIGHLY REFINED OIL, the
esse or sum total of a perfect physical mechanism. It is the
"water" in the Jordan. Is
it,
then, any wonder that the sym
bol refers to immortality, and not to an individual?
The following quotation taken from Madam Blavatsky's
Glossary furnishes us, with further evidence that the sign
Cancer
is
productive and productile, and truly THE HOUSE
OF THE GREAT MOTHER HERSELF, since ALL
THINGS are nourished
by
her.
It
deals also with seed, for
it
creates and nourishes human seed, the corpuscles.
"In Egypt the Scarabaeus
is
the symbol of resurrection, and
also
of
rebirth; of resurrection for the mummy or rather of
the highest aspects of the PERSONALITY which animated
it,
and of rebirth of the Ego, the 'Spiritual body' of the lower,
human soul. Egyptologists give us but half of the truth, when
in
speculating upon the meaning of certain inscriptions, they
say, 'the justified soul, once arrived at
a
certain period of its
peregrinations (simply at the death of the physical body)
should be united to its body (i.e., the Ego) never more to be
separated from it.' (Rouge) What
is
this so-called body?
Can
it
be the mummy? Certainly not, for the emptied
mummified corpse can never resurrect.
It
can only be the
eternal, spiritual vestment, the Ego that never dies but gives
immortality to whatsoever becomes united to it. 'The delivered
Intelligence retakes its luminous envelope and (re) becomes
Daimon' as Prof. Maspero says,
is
the spiritual Ego; the per
sonal. For Kama Manas, its direct ray, or the lower soul,
is
that which aspires to become OSIRIFIED,
i.
e., to unite
itself with its 'god'
;
and that portion of
it
which will succeed
in
so doing, will never more be separated from
it
(the god),
not even when the latter incarnates again and again, descend
ing periodically on earth
in
its pilgrimage,
in
search of further
experiences and following the decrees of Karma. KHEM,
[122]
Cancer and Calcium Fluoride
'THE SOWER OF THE SEED,' is shown on a stele
in a picture of Resurrection after physical death, as the
CREATOR AND SOWER OF THE GRAIN OF CORN,
WHICH, AFTER CORRUPTION, SPRINGS UP
AFRESH EACH TIME INTO A NEW EAR, ON
WHICH A SCARAB.EUS BEETLE IS SEEN POISED;
and Deveria shows very justly that 'Ptah is the inert, material
form of Osiris, who will become Sokari, (the eternal Ego)
to be reborn, and afterwards by Harmachus,' or Horus in
his transformation, the risen god. The prayer so often found
in the tumular inscriptions, 'the wish for the resurrection in
one's LIVING SOUL' or the Higher Ego, had ever a Scara-
barns at the end, standing for the personal soul. The scara-
bseus is the most honored, as the most frequent and familiar,
of all Egyptian symbols. No mummy is without several of
them; the favorite ornament on engravings, household furn
iture and utensils is this sacred beetle, and Pierret pertinently
shows in his Oivre des Marts that the secret meaning of the
hieroglyph is sufficiently explained in that the Egyptian name
for the Scarabaus, KHEPER, SIGNIFIES TO BE, TO
BECOME, TO BUILD AGAIN."
While sufficient is given in the above statement to prove
that this sign has to do with RE-CREATION, it has not given
us the real, physiological interpretation which would clarify
it. No one will ever be permanently united with his Higher
Self or Ego, until the physical corpuscles to which Cancer
gives birth in the spleen, cease being tormented, starved and
destroyed because of the ignorance of the personality.
Two outstanding statements to remember are that Cancer
is THE SOWER OF THE SEED, and that the symbol, the
scarabaeus, signifies to be (existence), to become, TO BUILD
AGAIN. Only through the continued maintenance of the
health of the corpuscles is life in the physical body made per
manent, and victory gained over the grave. THIS IS ONE
OF MY MOST IMPORTANT PRONOUNCEMENTS.
It is truly the KEY TO PHYSICAL REGENERATION.
In The Pathway of the Soul, by Van Stone, we read :
"This serpentine force fashioned the universe and fashioned
man. It created him, and yet he in his turn could use it for
creation // he would only cease from generation." It is true
that the enormous amount of energy expended in procreation
[123]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
ALSO EXPELS THOUSANDS OF PERVERTED COR
PUSCLES. (See Chapter Eight).
Reviewing and allocating, now, our Biochemical facts with
the statement from Gray's Anatomy, we find that Calcium
fluoride possesses a vibration or rate of motion capable of
building up cuboidal formations. We find that the Arachnoid
or brain webs consist of bundles of white, fibrinous and elastic
tissue, their outer surface covered with cuboidal mesothelium.
Is any additional testimony required to substantiate Dr.
Carey's allocation of Calcium fluoride with the zodiacal sign
Cancer which truly fructifies the germs of the race?
There is yet further evidence :
The word crustacean has the same Latin root as crust.
Crustacean in Greek means crystal, having the power to crys
tallize or harden. It also means a hard coating or covering, a
shell, a horny substance. Crusta Petrosa means the cement of
a tooth. It is therefore true that Calcium fluoride is of the
nature of cement but having the peculiar property of elasticity.
Both the beetle and the crab have hard shells. The body cor
puscles are also encased in shells but another Calcium combi
nation is required to harden them, Calcium sulph of Scorpio
or plaster of Paris.
Biochemistry teaches us that the enamel of teeth and the
finger nails require this salt, and some is also utilized by the
bones. When Calcium fluoride is deficient, the skin is rough,
chapping and cracking; fissures tend to form in certain parts,
as between the toes, around the fingers, anus, back of the ears
or in the corners of the mouth. The skin has become deficient
in this rubbery-tissue material the elastic substance. Hard
growths, tumors of a fibroid character; blurred vision; cata
racts; osseous lumps or growth on the jaw or cheekbones;
loose teeth; receding gums; thin and brittle enamel; tongue
has a cracked appearance; elongation of the uvula; hemor
rhoids; apparently increased quantity of urine (due to a
relaxed condition of the muscular fibres) ; hardening of the
testicles; dragging pains in the groin; prolapsed uterus;
varicose veins; digestive disturbances; spleen trouble; valvular
heart trouble; forgetfulness and fear of poverty are some of
the outstanding indications of need of this salt. A CRUSTY
disposition is another.
There is one more important point which must be dealt
with before closing this chapter, and that is relative to the
[124]
Cancer and Calcium Fluoride
interpretation of FLUORIDE, its nature and its close rela
tion to the Moon by which its allocating sign, Cancer, is ruled.
It is well known that the Moon's light is reflected from
the sun. Is it any wonder that the ancients considered it male
and not female, for this reason? Luna is its Latin name.
In Greek it is Selena, while it is known as Lebanah and
Yarcah in Hebrew.
Please bear in mind that the following statements relative
to Calcium fluoride are scientifically correct, as they are taken
from A Text Book on Elemental Chemistry, Theoretical and
Inorganic, by George F. Barker, M. D., Professor of Physics
in the University of Pennsylvania.
"The mineral known as fluorite, fluor or Derbyshire spar,
is a compound of fluorine with calcium, CaF2. From this
mineral hydrogen-potassium fluoride may be prepared, and by
the action of heat on this, anhydrous hydrogen fluoride is
obtained. By the electrolysis of this substance a colorless gas
is obtained, possessed of extraordinary activity. It unites
directly with hydrogen even in the dark, and decomposes
water, readily setting free OZONIZED OXYGEN." He
later says that "the activity of fluoride seems to surpass that
of all other elements. Fluorite comes from the Latin ftuo,
to flow, because it can be used as a flux in the reduction of
metals."
A logical deduction from the above data seems to be that
as Calcium fluoride is necessary in fusing together all kinds
of material to make corpuscles or seeds, it has another
important function. It decomposes the water in the atmos
phere and thus furnishes the spiritual germ enclosed within
the corpuscle with the ozonized oxygen or ELECTRIFIED
AIR WHICH IS ITS PARTICULAR ENERGIZER.
Since the life of the corpuscle is the electrical germ-cell within
it,
it
must be fed by that which contains electrical energy.
Nothing else
is
logical.
It
is
interesting to note that the word flux also pertains
to the menstrual flow, since its appearance
is
ruled by the
Moon.
It
is
well known that the Moon has very much to do
with the ebb and flow of tides. Many years' experience
in
this work has proved conclusively that
a
deficiency
in
this salt causes many very painful as well as weakening
female troubles. The word fluor
is
the root of fluorescent,
and as chemistry informs us,
" this salt
is
thermo fluorescent.
[1251
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
It glows on exposure to moderate heat. Fluorescent means
the property a substance has when illuminated of giving off
light of a color different from its own and from that of any
incident light (the light falling upon it). Thermo-fluorescent
means luminescence exhibited by certain substances after ex
posure to heat, cathode or solar rays. The light given off
is usually of greater wave length than the incident light, and
the violet and ultra-violet rays are its best exciters. It is
powerfully fluorescent."
Not only does the above scientific statement furnish us with
illumination relative to the orb of night, but it conclusively
proves Dr. Carey's allocation of Calcium fluoride to Cancer,
a fluidic sign, ruled by the Moon which affects fluids and
itself a TRUE FLUX. And as Calcium fluoride will not
combine with oxygen, we find in this fact the reason why
it must constitute a large percentage of the material used in
forming the corpuscle, so that IT WILL NOT BE
DEPRIVED OF OXYGEN, FOR IT, TOO, MUST
BREATHE. Indeed, a corpuscle
is,
in
a
sense,
a
fish, as
well as an egg, for the kind of air
it
needs to sustain life
must be similar to that which serves to maintain life
in
the
habitants of the sea.
On consulting the Encyclopedia Britannica, we find that
this salt
is
found
in
the enamel of teeth, which corroborates
Dr. Schuessler's findings.
Is
it
not, then, very foolish to
deny the efficiency of Calcium fluoride tablets as
a
restorer
of this necessary dental covering? Let us use common sense
and at last admit that when
a
thing needs renovating, THE
SAME KIND OF MATERIAL MUST BE UTILIZED
TO ACCOMPLISH IT.
"Through astrology we may become cognizant of the
relationship existing between the Macrocosm or body of the
universe and the body of man. In this way we discover how
and where or
in
what part of man Nature's forces are con
stantly reacting." We begin to realize, then, that when
powerful planetary forces impinge upon that part of the
anatomy of the Grand Man known as Cancer, CALCIUM
FLUORIDE IS TREMENDOUSLY ACTIVE; AND IF
IN THAT PART OF THE BODY OF MAN ITS
ESSENTIAL SALT, CALCIUM FLUORIDE, IS NOT
PRESENT IN SUFFICIENT QUANTITY TO SET UP
THE SAME RATE OF VIBRATION WHICH IS THE
[126]
Cancer and Calcium Fluoride
PERFECT HEALTH RATIO, THEN DIS-EASE MANI
FESTS. One is not then WORKING WITH NATURE,
BUT AGAINST HER.
Chemistry tells us that each element has a fixed and definite
combining power, and that the arrangement of the atoms is
of as much importance as their kind and number. The old
philosopher doubtless was familiar with chemistry when he
said, "God geometrizes and forms man and the universe by
number and geometry." The earnest student of astro-bio
chemistry certainly realizes the truth of this statement.
We find that, in addition to its use as a flux and welder,
Calcium fluoride is also employed in making opal glass.
We find a correspondence here in the fact that, as be
fore stated, lack of this salt causes dimness of the crystal
line lens of the eyes. It also causes cataracts. It is interest
ing to note that the word CORNEA, which is the term for
the transparent structure forming the anterior part of the
external layer of the eyeball, means horny, and is derived from
the Latin word corneus. This checks up again with both
beetle and scarabaeus. Much data has been accumulated prov
ing that when the thirteenth degree of Aries is afflicted by
square from Cancer, and indeed, from Libra and Capricorn,
it is proof of a degenerating optic nerve, for it lies within the
middle decan of Aries which allocates physiologically with the
optic thalamus, THE ALL-SEEING EYE, which is really
a continuation of the brain substance itself.
Will it not be wonderful when parents are familiar with
physio-chemical astrology, also with the science of supplying
the constituent elements of the blood, for then tendencies to
blindness and other weakness will be eliminated by restoring
to the brain cells all that is required to perfectly nourish them.
It has also been proved that the last degrees of Taurus,
when occupied or negatively aspected by a powerful planet,
affect the nerves which cross at the base of the brain, result
ing in a disturbance in the circulation and hence partially
cutting off the supply of blood to the eyes. This will often
cause cataracts to form.
Sixty-five percent of all people born in the sign Cancer
are physical weaklings from birth. Anyone can verify this
from the birth dates of friends and acquaintances. Remem
ber, however, that thirty-five percent are not weaklings.
The reason so many (although they may live quite beyond
[127]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
the average) are never well, and almost constantly manifest
some symptom or other, is because they have never had
sufficient corpuscles created by the spleen. THEY ARE
UNDER-NOURISHED. In addition, they do not digest or
assimilate food well because of the fact that their GREAT
EST CHEMICAL DEFICIENCIES ARE CALCIUM
FLUORIDE, THE CANCER SIGN SALT AND CAL
CIUM PHOSPHATE, THE CAPRICORN MATERIAL.
THE LATTER HAPPENS TO BE THEIR ADVER
SARY SIGN.
And because CANCER IS THE NATURAL CONCEP
TION SIGN THE CONCEPTION OF CORPUSCLES,
AND of PROCREATION, IT IS UNNATURAL TO
BE BORN DURING THAT PERIOD. One is working
against Nature, and consequently suffers in health. It is also
true, however, that in the process of evolution which none
can side-step or gainsay, one works with a certain degree
of harmony on a lower plane of Nature when physical con
ception takes place as the sun transits Cancer. The Ego is
brought to birth at the resurrection time of Nature in the
Spring, when cosmic forces are the most powerful and the
intake of vital energy by the physical body is very great.
Those born at this time usually have a great supply of reserve
energy; and, although they are described as delicate looking,
are yet surprisingly strong, and have wonderful recuperative
powers.
There must be many wonderful Egos awaiting birth, and
when conception is no longer subject to unbridled lust and
two who respect and love each other wish for progeny, they
will not only make careful preparation by correcting chemical
deficiencies but will choose that time when Nature herself
brings ALL THINGS TO BIRTH. How many are there,
today, who are even thinking about such a plan? The
answer gives us the key to humanity's condition. How
ever, the powerful rays of Neptune and Uranus are endeavor
ing to stir up and shake out the old dead cells of decadent
ideas and opinions, and ere long some rays of light will dawn
on dark mental horizons. Either that, or the actual snuffing
out of the little consciousness which remains will take place.
"Man draws not only health from the elements WHEN
IN EQUILIBRIUM BUT ALSO DISEASE WHEN
THEY ARE DISTURBED." Paracelsus.
[128]
Cancer and Calcium Fluoride
"The world is too much v.ith us; late and soon
Getting and spending, WE LAY WASTE OUR POWERS ;
Little vie see in Nature that is ours;
We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon !
This sea that bares her bosom to the moon;
The winds that will be howling at all hours,
And are ungathered now like sleeping flowers;
For this, for everything, we are out of tune;
It moves us not; Great God! I'd rather be
A Pagan suckled in a creed outworn;
So might I, standing on this pleasant lea,
Have glimpses that would make me less forlorn ;
Have sight of Proteus rising from the sea;
Or hear old Triton blow his wreathed horn."
Wordsworth.
[129]
Chapter V
THE ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF LEO
AND MAGNESIUM PHOSPHATE
"Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces while there is none to
deliver." Psalms VII 2.
ROM July 22 to August 23 the Sun is transiting his
own sign, Leo, wherein he is lord of all. Leo is the
% ^ Latin word for Lion. This sign is the only one in
the circle of the zodiac having a beast of prey for a symbol.
We must again review the fact that there is a very definite
reason why the ancients assigned certain symbols to the twelve
divisions of the Grand Man; for they allocate perfectly when
their physiological correspondences are understood. We again
realize that a knowledge of the body is absolutely essential to
the study of astrology.
It was necessary to consult a Latin dictionary in order to
obtain the etymology of Leo, which is TO BLOT OUT, TO
DESTROY, TO ANNIHILATE. This is entirely in keep
ing with the nature of this animal. "But in what way," some
will inquire, "does this Carnivora synthesize with the fifth
division of the human body?" The basic interpretation of
the latter is motion, energy manifesting in action, and the
parts of the anatomy having to do with it are the heart and
motor nerves.
Before completing this explanation, we must consider the
interpretation of the name given to the month in which the
largest part of this sign falls, namely August. It is the hottest
period of the year, and the word literally means, to bring to
fruition, to make brown, to sun-burn.
The Latin verb augeo, from which it is derived, means
to make, to increase, to fertilize. Farmers and horticulturists
know that this is the period of the year when everything is
ripened by the intense heat of the sun. Seed is perfected.
Vegetation begins to look brown and parched; it is being con
sumed. August also means imperial very great power.
The lion is termed the King of beasts because of its very
[130]
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
great strength and majestic bearing, and the word is often
met with in occult literature, an outstanding expression being
"in the grip of the lion's paw," which is symbolical of high
moral courage and self-control.
It is very evident that the name of the month applying to
a zodiacal sign gives the key to the KIND OF WORK done,
while the symbol relates to the NATURE OF THE FORCE
DOING THAT WORK. This, in turn, checks up correctly
with the chemical element which alone can accomplish it.
Leo is the second of the fire triplicity, and its position in
the circle is 120° from the first fire sign, or Aries. It is so
placed, in harmonious relation to the latter because the two
must work in harmony. Again we realize that some knowl
edge of the anatomy of man is essential. The energy which
originates in and is sent forth from Aries, comes to fruition
in Leo. In other words, the former is the place of sowing,
while the latter Leo is the place of reaping.
Reviewing the process, we recall that Aries relates to the
cerebrum, and the precipitation therein of spiritual electricity
the fire of life. This vital energy flows into the motor
nerves, attracted by their magnetism and is utilized in
MOTION.
As the heart is a great mass of nervous muscular tissue
concerned in dividing, lifting and circulating the blood, IT
RECEIVES FROM THE INNER SUN IN ARIES (the
electrical generator) the divine fire, and utilizes it in pro
ducing VISIBLE activities, as well as those which go on un
seen within the body. To work in harmony with Aries, LEO
MUST USE CONSTRUCTIVELY ALL THE ENERGY
GENERATED IN ARIES.
Until humanity starts on the path of return, such is not
the case, and here is where the negative interpretation of
the lion applies perfectly, for a very great portion of mental
power and the energy generated in the inner nucleus IS
WASTED IN E-MOTION, the meaning of which is to flow
or move out, to go forth from.
It is to be greatly regretted that at the present time there
seems to be a movement on foot to discourage the teaching
of Greek and Latin in our colleges. Naturally there will not
be many who will share this opinion, simply because they do
not realize that these languages, and especially the latter,
reveal the meanings concealed in words. The study of Latin
[131]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
for a year or two enables one to catch automatically, as it
were, the secrets hidden in them.
It has been said that August derived its name from the
Emperor Augustus. It seems more logical, however, that he
received the name not only because it was his birth month but
because his rank made it appropriate.
The ancient Roman appellation for this month was Sextilis.
Here we find direct reference to one of the subjects which
has been attributed to this sign (Leo) and which is one phase
of emotional expression namely children.
The earnest student of esoteric astrology will see that this
interpretation by some astrologers as a basic idea is erroneous.
Leo does not deal with children as such, but with sexual
passion, that emotion which is necessary for the procreative
act. Animal heat, typified by the Sun in Leo, is the means
of procreation. Gemini is the offspring or progeny sign, as
its symbol, THE TWINS, plainly indicates. We must con
tinually bear in mind that our basic interpretations must be
accurate. It will then be easy to analyze correctly.
In addition to sexual passion, we find love affairs, amuse
ments and speculation attributed to and analyzed under Leo.
When we synthesize all the facts assembled relative to this
sign, it will be easy to understand how they came to be allo
cated with it.
It may be very difficult, perhaps, for any except earnest
students of esoteric astrology to agree with my statement
that the subjects which are related to Leo (sexual passion,
amusements, love affairs and speculation) are, in their ultimate
analysis, negative and therefore destructive.
It is very interesting that Leo (the sign with the BEAST
OF PREY symbol) which ordinarily would seem to be one
of the easiest signs to analyze, is very difficult to present.
The reason
is,
that the great mass of humanity
is
still con
cerned with and living
in
the E-motional or destructive phase
of this sign. For that reason they will continue to deny for
some time yet that these Leo subjects are destructive.
They should not be blamed or condemned. What one can
not at present contact mentally constitutes no real crime. As
one gathers experience, knowledge ultimately accumulates;
and there are no exceptions to this rule. Therefore
I
reach
out friendly hands to clasp those of all Leo natives, whether
young or old souls, for we are members of one great family,
[1321
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
children of the Great Creator, Architect and Chemist of the
Universe. We are all on our way down and up the ladder
of life. We are unable to contact, physically, any who have
reached the top. Their bodies are too refined and pure for
our dull eyes to see. Eventually, however, we will see them.
There are, however, several analogies of a scientific nature
which may assist those having difficulty in understanding why
these Leo subjects are destructive.
First let us recall the exact anatomical and physiological
interpretation of Leo. It has to do with the heart and motor
system of the universe, and by analogy with those same parts
in man. It is one of the four "agents" of the vital forces,
the others being Taurus, Scorpio and Aquarius. The heart
is a great pump and blood divider. The motor nerves are
those white fibers which are magnetically capable of contact
ing the electricity generated in Aries, and thereby producing
MOTION.
MOTION, THEN, IS THE MECHANICAL, POSI
TIVE AND SCIENTIFIC INTERPRETATION OF
LEO MOTION, NOT E-MOTION.
Why then do we find the BEAST OF PREY, the lion, as
the symbol allocated with this sign by the ancients?
We find innumerable references in the Scriptures to both
positive (constructive) and negative (destructive) interpreta
tions of the lion. The language is stately and dignified.
In Greek mythology we also find these two aspects dealt
with, clothed in picturesque and uniquely poetical language.
In fact there is no sacred literature of any nation and people
which does not contain such references.
In Smith's Bible Dictionary, we read: "Rabbinical writers
discover in the Old Testament seven Hebrew names for the
lion, which they assign to the animal at seven periods of its
life." This is analogous to the seven cycles or periods in
the life of man. These have to do not only with his physical
and mental development, but to a corresponding degree with
spiritual unfoldment. It would seem logical that this was one
reason why the lion was used as a symbol to represent the
various stages in a man's life. In other words, they express
his degree or rate of vibration at seven different periods of
his existence.
The Old Testament is a mass of scientific facts relative to
the many epochs in the life of the imperfect being, as the
[133]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
etymology of the words Old Testament reveals. Testament
consists of two words derived from the Latin: testa, meaning
body, and ment, from mentis, meaning mind. The old or
imperfect body and mind are thus considered in its pages,
while the New Testament naturally has to do with the perfect
product, the perfected man. Here we find only one name
for the Lion. It is "the Lion of the Tribe of Judah, he who
has attained and is now able to open the book and to loose
the seven seals thereof," as stated in Revelation.
The name "lion" is very ancient and is said to be of either
Egyptian or Semitic origin. It stands for a carnivorous
mammal of the cat family which is often of a tawny, yellowish
color. The color of the sign Leo is also yellow.
The Sun creates the most powerful vibrations. Some
ancient occult works inform us that ALL of the planets
originate from and eventually revert back to it; that they
have produced no life or light in themselves, but have derived
it from the Sun. On allocating the planets with the organs
in the body which they also respectively represent, the above
statement is found to be true. The organs in the torso DO
derive their life and power from that part of the body which
is ruled by the Sun in Aries. This is the optic thalamus, the
eye within the chamber, the Hidden Sun or electrical gen
erator. By reflection, the visible physiological Sun is the
SOLAR (SUN) PLEXUS. This great nerve ganglia broad
casts the energy received from the hidden sun (Aries) To
the Organs. When the solar plexus receives a "knock-out
blow" temporary paralysis results.
As the Sun is King of Heaven because invested with
supreme power over the universe, so the lion, AS KING OF
BEASTS on earth, is used as a symbol to illustrate the fact
that energy or power may be used TO CREATE (to GIVE
life) and also to destroy life. The story that Aries and Leo
reveal when allocated with the functions of the body, is that
of ENERGY DIRECTED OR GUIDED BY WISDOM.
Energy moves (Leo) up and down and around in the body,
doing its work wisely (Aries) while the outer servants of
the body (the hands, for example) do constructive work.
The antithesis of this is energy misdirected, used destructively.
The following passages quoted from the Bible dictionary
are splendid examples of energy used destructively and typified
by the ravening lion: "When driven by hunger it not only
[134]
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
ventured to attack flocks in the desert in presence of the shep
herd (Is. 31:4), but laid waste towns and villages, and de
voured men. The lion was a symbol of strength and sover
eignty (as is the SUN). Among the Jews and throughout the
Old Testament the lion was the achievement of the princely
tribe of Judah. On the other hand, its fierceness and cruelty
rendered it an appropriate metaphor FOR A FIERCE AND
MALIGNANT ENEMY AND HENCE FOR THE
ARCH-FIEND HIMSELF."
This is a clear and concise statement and does not leave
us in doubt. It must be understood that the term lion, as
used in Sacred Scripture, stood for two diametrically opposed
characters and conditions. One represented energy creating
life and conserving or protecting it; the other, destroying it.
In Psalms 7:2, we find the following: "Lest he tear my
soul like a lion, rending it in pieces, while there is none to
deliver." The foregoing has direct reference to a physio
logical fact. The soul of the human body is Isis, the Moon
or mother-liquor. It is the pituitary substance which forms
the basis of all the glandular fluids.
An important fact to remember
is,
that the pineal and
pituitary glands
in
the head (Aries) are the male and female
creative and recreative glands, whose office
is
to rebuild our
bodies daily; while the procreative glands (Scorpio) are used
destructively by the majority of humanity today, instead of
for the purpose of which they were originally intended during
one period in our evolution. This period has to do with
furnishing bodies for reincarnating egos,
in
other words,
spirits which must come to birth.
It
is
a
fact that the gamut of emotions which human beings
manifest from the cradle to the grave, results eventually
in
despoiling and pillaging the entire glandular system and also
in
utterly demoralizing both nervous systems.
Before giving the complete explanation which will prove
the above statement to be true, let us examine
a
few more
Biblical quotations: "Mine eye
is
consumed of grief;
it
wax-
eth old because of all mine enemies." Psalms 6:7. Note
that eye
is
singular and not used
in
the plural sense as
it
is
natural to assume
it
should be.
It
is
not referring to the outer
eyes, but to the sag gital eye deep within the head
in
the Holy
of Holies.
It
is
the Eye Single of which
it
is
written: "If
thine eye be single, thine whole body shall be full
of
light."
[135]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
The optic thalamus, then, is the eye referred to, and con
cerning which Gray's Anatomy gives us very limited informa
tion. Of its higher or spiritual nature nothing is given
therein. It is stated, however, that it is a most important
nerve center, and many of the nerves of special sense have
been traced to it. Some specialists on the subject place a
question mark after this statement, as they surmise that these
nerve origins may be found farther up.
My own researches cause me to conclude that they do not
originate in the optic thalamic center. This conclusion seems
to be substantiated by the information given in Gray's
Anatomy that "the optic nerve corresponds rather to a
TRACT OF FIBERS WITHIN THE BRAIN than to the
other cranial nerves. The optic nerve is peculiar in that its
fibers and ganglion cells are probably third in the series of
neurons from the receptors to the brain."
It is evident that the thalami and optic nerves branching
off therefrom are really continuations of the cerebral arach
noidal fibers. This indeed proves the statement true that
"the eyes are the windows of the Spirit." With most of us
these windows are still covered with the dust of our animal
delusions (desires). We can not see clearly, for the cerebral
substance has not yet been clarified and chemically perfected.
When this at last has been accomplished, we will not "see
as through a glass, DARKLY," but the windows of our
heaven shall be open, illumination will have been attained.
The cerebrum will be as a ball of living fire.
Our outer eyes constitute in themselves two zodiacs, and
a very interesting science will eventually develop which will
throw light on the condition of the areas in the two cerebral
hemispheres, in addition to those in the body, as now used.
Returning to the analysis of our Biblical quotation, we
find that this eye may be actually consumed by grief. Here is
direct reference to what may be termed a Saturnine emotion.
The lachrymal glands are over-stimulated by emotion; and
hence are over active. As this fluid is derived from the brain
we can understand why the loss is depleting. It is deflected
from its natural course downward to supply the entire gland
ular system, and the latter does not obtain sufficient. It seems
reasonable to assume that intense grief, continuous over a
period of time could drain away a large part of the cerebral
substance or exhaust it so that it would cease to function. This
[136]
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
may be one of the reasons why some people (in rare in
stances) die of grief.
Sorrow has a contracting and crystallizing effect on the
nerves, and it is a fact that it very materially limits the supply
of energy sent ordinarily to the solar plexus. The func
tions of all the organs are thus retarded. Particularly do
we find trouble arising relative to digestion, liver, kidney and
bowel action.
Completing our analysis of the above quotation, "it waxeth
old because of all mine enemies." If we are true to ourselves,
meaning if we study to live and perfect ourselves by doing the
RIGHT thing, we will have no enemies, for the latter are
OUR DESIRES AND EMOTIONS. Like the lion, the
beast of prey, THEY TEAR US TO PIECES AND CON
SUME US. It is physiologically true.
From Psalms 22:21, we quote the following: "Save me
from the lion's mouth; for thou hast heard me from the horns
of the unicorns." The last part of the above statement is
very curious and deeply occult. The unicorn was a mythical
animal whose legendary story is extremely interesting. It
has to do with the subject matter of this book. It will be
fully considered under Capricorn, the tenth chapter.
We find the same idea concerning emotion set forth in
Psalms 57:4: "My soul is among lions; and I lie even among
them that are set on fire, even the sons of men whose
teeth are spears and arrows and their tongue a sharp sword."
Here we find reference to desires so consuming that the
body is literally set on fire. The flames become as teeth to
mutilate and consume the flesh. The blood becomes feverish
and the heart labors furiously to circulate it as fast as the
throbbing nerves demand. Is it any wonder that the sexual
act causes severe strain on the heart? It is not uncommon
for death to result at its termination. No one can be in per
fect health and suddenly die from heart failure as we so often
read in the papers. It is a statement of such ignorance as
actually to be silly. There are many forms of heart disturb
ance and they, together with their causes, will be considered
later on in this chapter. Any organ (the same as any
machine) will suddenly give out when constant and undue
strain is put upon it.
Another interesting quotation from Second Timothy 4:17,
refers to the result of co-operation between Aries and Leo,
[137]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
when all our actions are directed by the Lord (the Spirit in
us) : "Notwithstanding the Lord stood with me, and strength
ened me ; that by me the preaching might be fully known, and
all the Gentiles might hear; and I was delivered out of the
mouth of the lion." By preaching is meant the admonition
of the Higher Self (Aries) to the motion-self (the person
ality) to cease being emotional, thus delivering the former
out of the mouth of the lion.
In the fourteenth chapter of Judges, we read how "Samson
went down to Timnath and in the vineyards a young lion
roared against him. The Spirit of the Lord came mightily
upon him and he rent him as he would have rent a kid, and
he had nothing in his hands." After a time he returned to
the carcass of the lion; and behold there was a swarm of bees
and honey in the carcass of the lion. He ate the honey and
"the Spirit of the Lord came upon him and he slew thirty men
and went up TO HIS FATHER'S HOUSE."
This reference to Samson is remarkable, for in Hebrew
we find the name means SUN-LIKE, strong, distinguished,
the hero. It is analogous to the vital force generated in Aries
going down (exactly as it was said to do) into Leo which
was, in the rendering, called Timnath. In Hebrew, this word
means PORTION ASSIGNED, OR RESIDENCE. It sym
bolizes the great motive center which receives electrical im
pulses from the brain. The power of the spirit within enabled
Samson to control the passion which suddenly arose to tempt
him and even to subdue it entirely, which the word "slay"
implies. That powerful force was TRANSMUTED. This
idea is impressed on one rather forcibly by the statement that
"he had nothing in his hands." It was not a material weapon
which he used, but the electrical power of WILL.
WILL is a higher or celestial attribute, and is required
to dominate the senses. It is not will but desire, beastly,
ravening like the lion, which is the SLAVE of passion. We
can not afford to ignore the rest of this quotation, the refer
ence to bees and honey which Samson found in the carcass
of the lion on returning to
it,
also to the power which came
upon him after eating.
It
will be recalled that the Bee, as stated
in
the chapter
on Aries,
is
a
symbol of Prana,
in
Sanskrit, or the buzzing
dancing electrons of Spirit; also that honey
is
a
precipitation
of etheric particles, termed ambrosia and nectar of the gods.
[138]
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
That which was found in the lion, heavenly nectar gathered
there because not thrown away in passion, was reabsorbed by
the blood and nerves. This gave the supposed Samson such
strength ("the spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him")
that he slew thirty men and "returned to his Father's house."
The thirty men are analogous to the thirty degrees of Leo,
also of Scorpio, and it is evident that the return of Samson
to his Father's house has to do with the return of that same
mighty force to the brain, which truly is the Father's (Aries)
house. Expressed in scientific and mechanical terms,
energy was conserved.
There are very curious and subtle references to Leo and
Cancer found in the thirty-fourth and thirty-fifth verses of
the first chapter of the first book of Samuel: "And David
said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his Father's sheep, and there
came a lion and a bear and took a lamb out of the flock. And
I went after him and smote him and delivered it out of his
mouth; and when he rose against me I caught him by the
beard and slew him. And David said moreover the Lord
delivered me out of the paw of the lion and out of the paw
of the bear."
Unless the chapter on the sign Cancer is understood it will
be a little difficult, perhaps, to get the full interpretation of
the reference , to Bear. Ursa Major, or the Great Bear or
Shepherd in the constellation of Cancer is the reference.
Therefore the Biblical story concerns that deeply hidden
mystery which Cancer alone reveals and which is of such
intense physiological interest.
The meaning of "Thy servant kept his Father's sheep,"
will be clear if the chapter on Aries has been thoroughly
digested. Any reference to flocks, sheep, lamb or ram is
analogous to this sign. Father also refers to Aries, as it is
the house or organ of the Creator. TO KEEP one's sheep
literally means that one does not part with or waste the seed
essence from the brain.
Taking the lamb out of the flock by a lion and a bear has
reference not only to catching one of these seed-electrons
(which, as stated before, constitutes a nucleus for a corpuscle,
in a crab-like web in the spleen and perfecting a corpuscle,
but to the fire of passion (the lion) seeking to create in it
the same vibration as itself. This would, if successful, cause
the corpuscle to be changed and eventually ejected from the
body. The bear means to create while lion means to consume.
[139]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
But we find that the latter did not result, for David "went
after him and smote him (the lion) and delivered it (the
lamb) out of his mouth." And when passion still surged and
would not cease, will asserted itself, and he slew the lion.
The result of disobedience to God's laws, as when the will
is not yet strong enough to control the lion (holding the
passions as a dog is held by a leash), is brought out clearly
in the fourteenth chapter of the first book of Kings: "It is
the man of God who was disobedient unto the word of the
Lord; therefore the Lord hath delivered him unto the lion
which hath torn him and slain him."
The kind of seed that is sown and the soil in which it falls
decides what the reaping will be. Again we have an example
of the inevitable working out of the law of cause and effect.
If the passions and emotions are controlled (slain, trans
muted), creative energy and substance is free to return to the
Father's house, the place of its inception. When they are not
controlled, the contrary is true.
Because the four signs of the vital cross are separately and
collectively concerned in the great work of slaying the lion,
they are referred to in Rev. IV, sixth and seventh verses, as
"the four beasts," and are described as follows: "The first
was like a lion, the second a calf, the third had the face of
a man and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle."
It will be seen that all four are termed beasts, even the
one having the face of a man. The latter has been carved in
stone, and preserved through the ages as an everlasting
memorial or reminder of the negative and positive processes.
As Dr. Carey stated in his book The Chemistry and Wonders
of the Human Body: "A dream of an ancient alchemist
solidified in stone, and the awful sphinx sat down in Egypt's
sand to gaze into eternity."
Aquarius and Leo, two diametrically opposed signs, are
placed opposite each other in the zodiacal circle for the very
good reason that they, as constellations, are found to occupy
the same positions in relation to each other in the heavens.
They represent therefore, the two ends of one pole of
existence. Aquarius has to do with the Real Man, the regen
erated being, while Leo points out the struggle with the lion
(the beast) which must result in victory or the crucifixion of
the Son of man in us.
Countless are the crucifixions constantly taking place !
[140]
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
The calf referred to is Taurus, the lower brain, the animal
man, the bull which WILL EVENTUALLY BECOME
DIVINE, now plowing up the earth in rage, reaping a crop
of tares. He is the prodigal son.
The reference to "the beast like a flying eagle" is a very
great mystery, but is solved by an understanding of esoteric
astrology. It will be explained in the chapter dealing with
Scorpio, and we need only state here that it has reference to
the seed-electrons or corpuscle-nuclei at last becoming free to
ascend (fly as the eagle) to the heights.
When Leo and Aries work in harmony or in trine as their
positions in relation to each other in the zodiac indicate, the
electrical energy generated in Aries is utilized in a harmon
ious and positive manner. No energy is wasted when one
is mentally balanced. The physical and mental work accom
plished is always constructive.
We find the above happy state expressed in the following,
taken from I Chronicles 12:8: "The lion-faced warriors
of Gad (God) were among David's most valiant troops."
Brain cells which function perfectly, assuredly fight for or do
the will of the Most High.
The Bible contains innumerable other references, but the
above are sufficient for our purpose.
"To misunderstand and confuse the meanings of words,
and to misapply the words themselves is a disease of memory,"
says the well-known writer, Max Miiller. What store of
priceless mental wealth awaits the earnest student who labors
constantly to eradicate this disease.
G. M. Gayley, in his Classic Myths of English Literature,
says: "Allegorical interpretation is akin to the philological
in its results. It leads us to explain myths as embodiments
in symbolic guise of hidden meaning of physical, chemical, or
astronomical FACTS; or of moral, religious, philosophical
truth."
It is indeed encouraging to find other writers who, although
they do not always interpret their translations, readily admit
that great truths of a scientific and philosophical character
are concealed in ancient writings.
Mr. Gayley also says : "This method of explanation rests
upon the assumption that the men who made the allegories
were proficient in physics, chemistry, astronomy, etc., and
[141]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
clever in allegory; but that, for some unknown reason their
descendants becoming stupid, knowledge as well as wit
deserted the race. In some cases the myth was, without
doubt, from the first an allegory; but where the myth was
consciously fashioned as an allegory, in all probability it was
preserved as such. It is not, however, likely that allegories
of deep scientific or philosophical import were invented by
savages. Where the myth has every mark of great antiquity,
is especially silly and senseless and savage, it is safe to believe
that any profound allegorical meaning, read into
it,
is
the
work of men of
a
later generation who thus attempted to
make reasonable the divine and heroic narratives which they
could not otherwise justify, and of whose existence they were
ashamed.
"Among the ancients, Theagenes of Rhegium, six hundred
years before Christ, suggested the allegorical; theory and
method of interpretation. In modern times he has been sup
ported by Lord Bacon, whose Wisdom
of
the Ancients treats
myths as 'elegant and instructive fables,' and
by
many Ger
mans, especially Professor Creutzer."
Wordsworth,
in
his poem Excursion, furnishes us with
a
delightful word picture of the intensely imaginative Grecian
mind
:
"In that fair clime the lonely herdsman, stretched
On the soft grass through half
a
summer's day,
With music lulled his indolent repose;
And, in some fit of weariness,
if
he,
When his own breath was silent chanced to hear
A distant strain far sweeter than the sounds
Which his poor skill could make, his fancy fetched
Even from the blazing chariot of the sun
A beardless youth who touched
a
golden lute,
And filled the illumined groves with ravishment."
Mr. Gayley further states: "If we were living, like the
Greek of old, close to the heart of nature, such personification
of natural powers would be more easy for us to appreciate."
And as Ruskin says: "If for us also, as for the Greek, the
sunrise means daily restoration to the sense of passionate
gladness and of perfect life
if
it
means the thrilling of new
strength through every nerve the shedding over us of better
peace than the peace of night,
in
the power of the dawn, and
the purging of evil vision and fear by the baptism of its dew;
if
the sun itself
is
an influence, to us also, of spiritual good
and becomes thus
in
reality, not
in
imagination, to us also,
[142]
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
a spiritual power we may then soon over-pass the narrow
limit of conception which kept the power impersonal, and rise
with the Greek to the thought of an angel who rejoiced as
a strong man to run his course, whose voice, calling to life
and labor, rang around the earth, and whose going forth was
to the ends of heaven."*
In Greek literature Helios represented the Sun in its daily
and yearly course, its physical rather than its spiritual mani
festation, Apollo being the name of the latter.
"Apollo brought not only the warm spring and summer, but
also the blessings of the harvest. He warded off dangers and
diseases of summer and autumn; and he healed the sick. He
was patron of music and poetry. He was a founder of cities,
a promoter of colonization, a giver of good laws, the ideal
of fair and manly youth a pure and just god, requiring
CLEAN HANDS AND PURE HEARTS of those that
worshiped him. But though a god of life and peace, the far-
darter did not shun the weapons of war. When presumption
was to be punished, or wrong righted, he could bend his bow,
and slay with the arrows of his sunlight." Gayley.
Shelley says of the Sun :
"The sunbeams are my shafts, with which I kill
Deceit, that loves the night and fears the day;
All men who do or even imagine ill
Fly me, and from the glory of my ray
Good minds and open actions take new might,
Until diminished by the reign of night.
I am the EYE with which the universe
Beholds itself and knows itself divine ;
All harmony of instrument or verse.
All prophecy, all medicine, are mine,
All light of art or nature; to my song,
Victory and praise in their own right belong."
The story of Phaeton is a very realistic description of the
terrible effect of a will too weak to guide the horses of the
chariot of the Sun.
It is the story of the destructive phase of energy. As it is
the only example I shall quote from Greek mythology, it is
well to do so at length:
"Phaeton was the son of Apollo and the nymph Clymene.
One day Epaphus, the son of Jupiter and Io, scoffed at the
idea of Phaeton being the son of a god. Phaeton complained
of the insult to his mother Clymene. She sent him to Phoebus
'Queen of the Air.
[143]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
to ask for himself whether he had not been truly informed
concerning his parentage. Gladly Phaeton traveled toward
the regions of sunrise, and gained at last the palace of the
Sun. He approached his father's presence, but stopped at a
distance, for the light was more than he could bear. Phoebus
Apollo, arrayed in purple, sat on a throne that glittered with
diamonds. Beside him stood the Day, the Month, the Year,
the Hours, and the Seasons. Surrounded by these attendants
the Sun beheld the youth dazzled with the novelty and
splendor of the scene, and inquired the purpose of his errand.
The youth replied, 'Oh, light of the boundless world, Phoebus,
my father if thou dost yield me that name give me some
proof, I beseech thee, by which I may be known as thine !'
He ceased. His father, laying aside the beams that shone
around his head, bade him approach, embraced him, owned
him for his son, and swore by the river Styx that whatever
proof he might ask should be granted. Phaeton immediately
asked to be permitted for one day to drive the chariot of the
Sun. The father repented his promise, and tried to dissuade
the boy by telling him the perils of the undertaking. 'None
but myself,' he said, 'may drive the flaming car of day. Not
even Jupiter, whose terrible right arm hurls the thunderbolts.
The first part of the way is steep, and such as the horses when
fresh in the morning can hardly climb,; the middle is high up
in the heavens, when I myself can scarcely, without alarm,
look down and behold the earth and sea stretched beneath
me. The last part of the road descends rapidly, and requires
most careful driving. Tethys, who is waiting to receive me,
often trembles for me lest I should fall headlong. Add to
this that the heaven is all the time turning round and carrying
the stars with it. Couldst thou keep thy course, while the
sphere revolved beneath thee? The road, also is through the
midst of frightful monsters. Thou must pass by the horns of
the Bull, in front of the Archer, and near the Lion's jaws,
and where the Scorpion stretches its arms in one direction
and the Crab in another. Nor wilt thou find it easy to guide
those horses, with their breasts full of fire that they breathe
forth from their mouths and nostrils. Beware, my son, lest
I be the donor of a fatal gift; recall the request while yet thou
canst.' He ended; but the youth rejected admonition, and
held to his demand. So, having resisted as long as he might,
Phoebus at last led the way to where stood the lofty chariot.
[144]
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
"It was of gold, the gift of Vulcan: the axle of gold, the
pole and wheels of gold, the spokes of silver. Along the seat
were rows of chrysolites and diamonds, reflecting the bright
ness of the sun. While the daring youth gazed in admiration,
the early Dawn threw open the purple doors of the east, and
showed the pathway strewn with roses. The stars withdrew,
marshaled by the Day star, which last of all retired also.
The father, when he saw the earth beginning to glow, and
the Moon preparing to retire, ordered the Hours to harness
up the horses. They led forth from the lofty stalls the steeds
full fed with ambrosia, and attached the reins. Then the
father, smearing the face of his son with a powerful unguent,
made him capable of enduring the brightness of the flame.
He set the rays on the lad's head, and, with a foreboding
sigh, told him to spare the whip and hold tight the reins;
not to take the straight road between the five circles, but to
turn off to the left; to keep within the limit of the middle
zone, and avoid the northern and southern alike; finally, to
keep in the well-worn ruts, and to drive neither too high nor
too low, for the middle course was safest and best.
"Forthwith the agile youth sprang into the chariot, stood
erect, and grasped the reins with delight, pouring out thanks
to his reluctant parent. But the steeds soon perceived that
the load they drew was lighter than usual; and as a ship with
out ballast is tossed hither and thither on the sea, the chariot,
without its accustomed weight, was dashed about as if empty.
The horses rushed headlong and left the traveled road.
Then, for the first time, the Great and Little Bears were
scorched with heat, and would fain, if it were possible, have
plunged into the water; and the Serpent which lies coiled
around the north pole, torpid and harmless, grew warm, and
with warmth felt its rage revive. Bootes, they say, fled away,
though encumbered with his plow, and unused to rapid motion.
"When hapless Phaeton looked down upon the earth, now
spreading in vast extent beneath him, he grew pale, and his
knees shook with terror. He lost his self command, and
knew not whether to draw tight the reins or throw them loose;
he forgot the names of the horses. But when he beheld the
monstrous forms scattered over the surface of the heaven,
the Scorpion extending two great arms, his tail, and his
crooked claws over the space of two signs of the zodiac, when
the boy beheld him, reeking with poison and menacing with
[145]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
fangs, his courage failed, and the reins fell from his hands.
The horses, unrestrained, went off into unknown regions of
the sky, in among the stars, hurling the chariot over the path
less places, now up in high heaven, now down almost to the
earth. The moon saw with astonishment her brother's chariot
running beneath her own. The clouds began to smoke. The
forest-clad mountains burned Athos, and Taurus and Tmolus
and CEte; Ida, once celebrated for fountains; the muses'
mountain Helicon, and Haemus; iEtna, with fires within and
without, and Parnassus, with his two peaks, and Rhodope,
forced at last to part with his snowy crown. Her cold climate
was no protection to Scythia; Caucasus burned, and Ossa and
Pindus, and greater than both, Olympus the Alps high in
air, and the Apennines crowned with clouds.
"Phaeton beheld the world on fire, and felt the heat intoler
able. Then, too, is said, the people of iEthiopia became black
because the blood was called by the heat so suddenly to the
surface; and the Libyan desert was dried up to the condition
in which it remains to this day. The Nymphs of the foun
tains, with disheveled hair, mourned their waters, nor were
the rivers safe beneath their banks; Tanais smoked, and
Caicus, Zanthus, and Meander; Babylonian Euphrates and
Ganges, Tagus, with golden sands, and Cayster where the
swans resort. Nile fled away and hid his head in the desert,
and there it still remains concealed. Where he used to dis
charge his waters through seven mouths into the sea, seven
dry channels alone remained. The earth cracked open, and
through the chinks light broke into Tartarus, and frightened
the king of shadows and his queen. The sea shrank up. Even
Nereus and his wife Doris, with the Nereids, their daughters,
sought the deepest caves for refuge. Thrice Neptune essayed
to raise his head above the surface, and thrice was driven back
by the heat. Earth, surrounded as she was by waters, yet
with head and shoulders bare, screening her face with her
hands, looked up to heaven, and with husky voice prayed
Jupiter if it were his will that she should perish by fire, to
end her agony at once by his thunderbolts, or else to consider
his own heaven, how both the poles were smoking that
sustained his palace, and that all must fall if they were
destroyed.
"Earth, overcome by heat and thirst, could say no more.
Then Jupiter, calling the gods to witness that all was lost
[146]
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
unless some speedy remedy were applied, thundered, brand
ished a lightning bolt in his right hand, launched it against
the charioteer, and struck him at the same moment from his
seat and from existence. Phaeton, with his hair on fire, fell
headlong, like a shooting star which marks the heavens with
its brightness as it falls, and Eridanus, the great river, re
ceived him and cooled his burning frame.
"The Italian Naiads reared a tomb for him, and inscribed
these words upon the stone :
'Driver of Phoebus' chariot, Phaeton,
Struck by Jove's Thunder, rests beneath this stone.
He could not rule his father's car of fire,
Yet was it much so nobly to aspire.'
"It was not, however, only by accident, or by the ill-advised
action of those whom he loved, that Apollo's gifts of light
and heat were turned into misfortunes. Mortals who offended
him were leveled by the cruel sunstroke, by arrows of malarial
venom, or manifold sickness and death."
A few comments are necessary in order to elucidate certain
points in this remarkable account which otherwise might
escape the attention of the reader:
The word Phaeton means "shining one," or "son of the
Sun" and dictionaries inform us that the word is chiefly
used allusively for a rash or venturesome charioteer, also,
one who sets the world on fire. It is evident that such a
one has not developed will power or discrimination. It is
analogous of one possessing tremendous energy (life force)
but not knowing how to direct it wisely.
The criticism concerning his birth status as son of the Sun
comes from the fact that he had personally manifested no
proof. He could not bear the light of his father's presence,
not being strong or pure enough to link up with and utilize
the powerful and consuming rays. There was yet too much
dross in his body. Pure gold does not burn. Only poison
and waste products, that which is not chemically pure, are
consumed.
The purple robe of the Sun at dawn is expressive of the
colors of Pisces and Aries where two ends of the zodiacal
circle of life are forged together. It is not only typical of
the rising Sun but of the Dawn of Life in nature (the Sun
rising in the east) and in the human body.
It must be recalled that the passage of the Sun across the
[147]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
sky during the day is analogous to the spiritual life, while the
journey of the Moon by night typifies the life of the senses.
Therefore the Sun alone (the triumphant Spirit) was capable
of driving the flaming car by day.
Much emphasis is laid on the fact that constant and per
sistent effort of the Spirit is required. Immutable law is the
force which keeps everything in its destined course. Dis
obedience of God's laws results in inability to follow the
course, together with ever-present danger.
How true the admonition to those in the present stage of
evolution, "the middle course is safest and best." There is a
subtle meaning in these words which may not be noted, as the
general interpretation is, that while we must strive not to fall,
we must not soar too high. The idea really embodied, how
ever, is that we must attain equilibrium, we must become
balanced, perfect. The chapter on Libra, the Scales, must
be studied to clarify this thought.
The fact that the car had too little ballast when driven by
Phaeton should be clear to all. The word ballast means that
which is put into a car or vehicle to steady it. Therefore,
when used metaphysically it has reference to stability of
character, morals, etc., otherwise perfect poise.
We find that some of the zodiacal signs are mentioned, and
when these are analyzed it will be clear why they are men
tioned. The Bull (Taurus) ; the Archer (Sagittarius) ; the
Lion (Leo) ; and the Crab (Cancer) are those referred to.
Every sentence is replete with hidden facts.
"Along the seat of the gorgeous chariot were rows of
chrysolites and diamonds." In considering this statement we
are delighted to find that we are able to check up with another
interesting subject, that of precious stones.
In The Curious Lore of Precious Stones, by Frederick
Kunz, we find many interesting references relative to the
chrysolite. The name means GOLDEN STONE and is
therefore appropriate to adorn the car of the Sun. He says:
"Golden yellow was, of course, the symbol of the Sun and of
Sunday. The precious stone was the chrysolite. The animal
connected with the color was the lion, doubtless from the
association of the zodiacal sign Leo with the mid-summer
sun. Of the seven ages of man yellow typified adolescence.
Roman matrons covered their heads with a yellow veil to show
their hope of offspring and happiness. Because garments of
r
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
this color were a sign of grandeur and nobility, a golden vest
ment is assigned to the Queen of Heaven, as a sign of her
pre-eminence, as we read in Psalms 14:9: 'Upon thy right
hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir.' Gimma's ex
planation of this as referring to the Virgin Mary is in accord
with the Catholic exegesis of his time."
Whenever we search for FACTS we find them. Please
note how many statements relative to the subjects pertaining
to Leo we find in the above paragraph. They check correctly
with points given before, such as the seven periods in the life
of man ; adolescence, which is the time when sexual passion
is rampant, and which also tallies with the old name of this
month, Sextilis; with the desire of Roman matrons for off
spring; and with gold as the color of Leo, or grandeur and
nobility. It is embodied in the expression "AUGUST
PRESENCE."
Mr. Kunz also states in his very interesting treatise that
"the belief in the virtue of the chrysolite to dissolve enchant
ments and to put evil spirits to flight was probably due to
the association of this stone with the sun, before whose life-
giving rays darkness and all the powers of darkness were
driven away."
The fact that Phaeton was filled with intense admiration
of the beauty and grandeur of his father's surroundings and
that he grasped the horses' reins with delight proves that he
had become keyed to a high pitch of emotion. Naturally the
pendulum was to swing just as far in the opposite direction.
This fact constitutes one of the several reasons which will
be given later on as proof that what is termed positive emotion
is also of a destructive nature.
Phaeton's mind was not kept steadily on the business at
hand, that of driving the car, for he was filled with conflicting
emotions.
It was stated that the steeds were "full-fed with ambrosia."
This should be clear to those who have understood the first
chapter, Aries. The Divine Bee, Bramharandha, produces
the honey or ambrosia. Energy was at its highest.
But fear followed swiftly after his exuberance and delight:
the horses rushed headlong, and left the beaten path. His
knees even shook with terror, which is analogous to lack
of character. (See Capricorn).
Then the serpent (desire), which had hitherto been torpid
[149]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
and harmless, and wound around the North Pole (manifesting
as wisdom), was aroused by the heat and "its rage revived."
An explanation is hardly necessary here but lest there is one
reader who is unable to understand, let it be said that the
torpid and harmless serpent typified passion restrained and
utilized in constructive work, as when Phoebus himself drove
his own chariot. It means that desire was again aroused.
Then utter panic possessed Phaeton, and he forgot even the
names of the horses. In biochemic science, this is a definite
modality indicative of MENTAL CONFUSION.
At this point it will be seen that Phaeton gave way wholly
to passion, for he now faces the Scorpion itself. In astrologic
lore this sign is said to be the HOUSE OF DEATH. How
ever there have been no books which have given the true
esoteric reason. Chapter VIII will do so. As the terrible
claws reached out toward him and he breathed the poisonous
and death-dealing effluvia, HIS COURAGE DESERTED
HIM. Is it not true that when courage is gone one is unable
to keep on?
And so the earth (body) became hot and at last smoked.
The fluids and the glandular substance of a watery nature
also began to evaporate from the ever-present animal heat.
In a last extremity Earth called aloud to Heaven, exactly as
the suffering body calls to the mind, demanding to know the
cause of its agony and asking for help. In this instance, we
receive proof that the brain itself was about to expire.
Jupiter, the beneficent Father, giver of all good things, and
metaphysically the Higher Mind, responded; and the elec
tricity from the brain in one heroic effort destroyed desire and
with it the body already practically consumed. It was too late
to save it.
And as the verse following the quotation states, "He was
unable to drive his Father's car." He lacked self-control or
mental equilibrium, hence the necessary MATERIAL.
In G. A. Gaskell's Dictionary of the Sacred Language of
All Scripture and Myths, we find many illuminating references
to our subject; "Leo is a symbol of the fifth period of the
cycle of life, which is a period of involution on the astral
plane, wherein strong desire works in the lower nature
through passion, instinct, appetite and animal affection. It is
the period of the involutionary development of the astral
nature of the soul."
[150]
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
The above statements are very clear and therefore require
no comment.
Mr. Gaskell quotes from St. Gregory's book, Morals on
the Book of Job: "Forasmuch as the nature of everything is
compounded of different elements, in Holy writ different
things are allowably represented by any one thing. For the
lion has magnanimity, it has also ferocity; by its magnanimity
then it represents the Lord, by its ferocity the devil. Hence
it is declared of the Lord, 'Behold the Lion of the Tribe of
Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed' (Rev. 5:5).
Hence it is written of the devil, 'Your adversary, the devil,
like a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may
devour.'
"
It is indeed true that the sun's rays are extremely powerful
at this time of the year, coming as they do from a point
directly overhead. The process of creating, fructifying and
ripening having been accomplished, which concerns evolution,
the inverse process now begins, and nature seeks to take back
into herself, or consume. This is involution. At the Spring
outpouring, evolution will once again begin.
In Buddha-Karita (Book I. 34), we read:
"
'I (Buddha) am
born for supreme knowledge, for the welfare of the world
thus this is my last birth.' Thus did he of lion-gait, gazing
at the four quarters, utter a voice of auspicious meaning."
Mr. Gaskell very clearly interprets the above as follows:
"The Self is born in the soul for its supreme illumination, i.e.,
the enlightenment of the incarnate Self. This is the supreme
moment in spiritual involution when potential perfection is
consummated (last birth), and now and henceforward pro
ceeds the fulfillment of the Divine nature, which through the
Self is brought to realize itself. So did the Self of FORCE
FUL mien, conqueror of the Quarternary, foresee his Divine
mission." By conqueror of the quarternary is meant the vital
cross, the four beasts of the Scriptures, the four physiological
parts of the body having to do with the vital forces.
In Ibid (page 216), we read: "The two Lion-gods watch,
one at each end, the path of the night Sun."
Right here is the proper place to state, before we leave
the subject of the chrysolite, that the chemical term for this
gem is MAGNESIUM FERRO SILICATE. In some books
on chemistry it is termed MAGNESIUM SILICATE. How
ever, the first-named salt, MAGNESIUM, is its chief earth.
[1511
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
This statement will probably astound many when it is learned
that Dr. Carey allocated Magnesium phosphate with this
sign.
Magnesium is diamagnetic, which means that it possesses
the property of being repelled by a magnet and of tending
to take a position at right angles (in other words to form a
square) to the lines of force in a magnetic field. Phosphorus,
water and hydrogen also have this same property.
As electricity is the SOURCE of all magnetism, we find this
scientific statement to be back of the placing of the fire signs,
Aries and Leo, in trine or harmonious relationship to each
other in the circle of the zodiac.
Magnesium is also a reducing agent, which expression has
been previously explained. It will be understood that a sub
stance capable of being repelled (such as Magnesium) or
MOVED out of its place, is required in order TO PRO
DUCE MOTION. Therefore the all-wise Architect and
Chemist of the universe created and used it for that purpose.
That which is incapable of being moved or of moving becomes
useless. This is true of the body when Magnesium phosphate
becomes very deficient. Spasms result.
As it is chemically true that acid attacks Magnesium with
ease, we have here the reason why excruciating nerve pain
results, when acid is present in the system for a long time.
This condition is hastened and intensified by lack of Silicea
which is nature's best insulating agent.
Schuessler's Biochemic System informs us that this remark
able salt serves to build sheaths and is indeed a protection for
certain parts of the body. Both sensory and motor nerves
are wound together in bundles like the strands of a rope and
encased in a tube or sheath, so that nothing will contact them
or prevent the free flow of electrical currents (energy)
through them. In the world of electrical science we find this
to be a fact and it is equally true when applied in the human
body. The Chapter on Sagittarius and Silicea will further
explain this.
It is also instructive to note that when Magnesium is
heated to redness, it will take fire and burn with a dazzling
light. It is very rich in ultra-violet rays, which again proves
that it is practically inseparable from Potassium or Kali, the
Aries salt. It has been used in late years as a source of light
in photography. It also is refractory (resistant) and hence
is used for furnace linings.
[152]
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
In combination with sulphur, Magnesium forms what is
familiarly known as epsom salts, the cleansing properties of
which are well known. The blood can not utilize epsom salt,
however. As its effect is to irritate vascular surfaces, causing
them to give up their fluidic content, it will be easily seen that
its use as a purgative over a long period of time would
eventually result in abnormal dryness, just the opposite effect
from that desired. The sodiums are the natural agents
having to do with the fluids.
The fluoride of the Cancer sign combination, linked with
the Magnesium phosphate of Leo, form fluorphosphate of
magnesium which will eventually be found to throw chemical
light on the close association of the Sun and Moon as rulers
of these two signs.
Splendidly true are the words of E. Underhill, in his book,
Mysticism: "The Green Lion is the First Matter of the
Great Work. It is not by the education of the lamb, but by
the hunting and taming of the wild, intractable lion, instinct
with vitality, full of ardor and courage, exhibiting heroic
qualities on the sensual plane, that the Great Work is
achieved. The Green Lion, then, in his strength and whole
ness, is the only creature potentially able to attain Perfection.
'The Green Lion,' says one alchemist, 'is the priest by whom
Sol and Luna are wed.'
"
"By Green Lion is meant the astral or desire nature, while
the lamb refers to Aries or the Most High. Hence it is true
that the sensual nature is the creature (animal man) which
is potentially able to become perfect. Sol (or energy) and
Moon (material or substance) are finally united in the per
manent or Heavenly Marriage 'which no man can put
asunder.'
"
The foregoing statement never meant earthly marriage.
That it has been thus interpreted is only one more instance of
the perversion of truth. How ridiculous the thought that
the uniting of man and woman by any human being and for
a price could possibly create a permanent or harmonious union.
In much of the teaching given today we find that Heavenly
Marriage is interpreted to mean the joining together in wed
lock of a man and woman who seem very well suited to each
other and supposedly harmonious. That such is absolutely
untrue will be admitted by anyone carefully analyzing the
[153]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
entire phase of married life. This will be considered in the
chapter on Libra.
By Green Lion is meant UNDYING ENERGY, the ever-
present and undiminishing life force; creative force un-
depleted. This is the yardstick or measuring rod which we
must apply in our analysis of marriage.
On page 274 of Volume I, of her Secret Doctrine, Madam
Blavatsky says: "Everything in the Universe, throughout all
its kingdoms, is CONSCIOUS; i. e., endowed with a con
sciousness of its own kind and on its own plane of perception.
We must remember that because WE do not perceive any
signs which we can recognize of consciousness, say, in stones,
we have no right to say that NO CONSCIOUSNESS
EXISTS THERE. There is no such thing as either 'dead'
or 'blind' matter, as there is no 'blind' or 'unconscious' law."
Anyone who has had a few years' experience in the study
and use of the twelve mineral salts of the blood as outlined
originally by Dr. William Schuessler, even without the astro
logical allocations, will whole-heartedly endorse this state
ment. It is astounding what these little mineral workmen do.
Let us consider the action of Magnesium phosphate in the
human body. Then we will better understand the symptoms
which arise from its need.
As before stated, all the nerves are threads or fibers and
hence their BASIC material is Kali mur, or chloride of
potassium, the SPINNING salt. There must be different
kinds of fibers because used for different purposes. So the
all-wise Chemist added Kali phos or phosphate of Potassium
to those fibers which were to contact Spirit, the electrical
energy of life. The latter constitute the gray matter.
Other nerves were also required, capable of responding to
the sensory impulses and thus producing MOTION. So
Magnesium phosphate was combined with certain fibers to
make the white or motor nerves. And when it is recalled that
the root of the word Magnesium or mag is derived from the
Sanskrit and means TO MOVE, we again marvel at Dr.
Carey's intuition which indeed must have resulted from an
intensive study of these subjects in his past incarnation.
It will be recalled that the two opposite renderings of the
word lion are MAGNANIMITY and FEROCITY. It is
exceedingly curious and yet true that the first word is derived
from the same root (MAG) as Magnesium while ferocity
[154]
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
has the same root as the chemical term Ferrum or iron. It is
also a fact that these two salts work together. As no
MOTION can be produced without ENERGY, so Ferrum
or iron is necessary in order to BEAR ENERGY ALONG
ITS WAY, which is interpreted as MOTION.
There are several meanings derived from the Latin ferre,
i. e., to bear, bring, carry, attack. Iron does all of these.
Iron and oxygen attack each other so savagely that the former
is eventually consumed. Iron carries oxygen, and oxygen
carries iron; without them both, life could not exist for one
moment in any body, animate or inanimate. Even Thomas
Vaughan quotes Pythagoras as saying in his Turba: "Great is
the affinity between Magnesia and Iron."
The Latin lexicon states that the word ferocity has a dual
interpretation; for it not only means high-spirited or courage
ous, but fierce, rough, or harsh. And indeed we realize how
well these link up with the analysis of the word lion.
On examining the word iron, we find the same situation.
This material is used wherever strength is required, and it
is well known that iron and steel are used to manufacture
machinery and the framework of buildings. All parts of the
body need their quota of iron particles for the same reason- -
to give strength, as will be understood from reading Chapter
XII, on Pisces. The negative interpretation is exemplified
in the expression, "hard as nails," hard as iron, unfeeling, as
manifesting in those of cruel nature.
The term magnanimous is derived from two Latin words,
magnus for great, and animus meaning mind; therefore it
refers to one who is great of mind, elevated in soul, raised
above what is mean or low or ungenerous, courageous, noble-
spirited and unselfish.
Mother Nature, working in the human body, lets her wants
be known by producing a feeling of discomfort. Health is
ease of mind and body. Dis-ease is the absence of ease.
Deficiency in Magnesium phosphate causes some very curious
and striking symptoms.
When the particles of this salt become very deficient, there
is a disturbance in the fibers of nerves 'and muscular tissue,
and their action is no longer rhythmic. Spasmodic action
results. Any symptom of this nature calls for this salt. We
find some of them are : cramps in the limbs, fingers, neck, in
[155]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
fact any part of the body; lock jaw, spasmodic coughing,
sneezing, choking, crying, laughing, hiccough.
This salt is the only true spasmodic remedy; and, when taken
in hot water, very soon brings relief. It is also the specific
for pain.
Hot applications and hot drinks should be taken to assist
relaxation. When swimmers are deficient in this salt, cramp
of the limbs will cause much discomfort, especially when the
water is quite cold. Angina pectoris is a very painful symp
tom which calls for large doses of this salt. Neuritis and
neuralgia indicate need of
it,
but there are other salts required
in
addition.
All troubles of heart and motor system call for Magnesium
phosphate.
It
has been my experience that where Calcium
in
any one combination (or 'in all three)
is
deficient, Mag
nesium should also be included, for there seems to be
a
special
affinity between
it
and Calcium. Whenever
a
person's chem
ical plan calls for Magnesium, Ferrum should also be taken,
because they need each other. And indeed, there
is
never
a
condition where there
is
no call for Iron, since
it
is
the at-
tractor of oxygen in1 the body, the means of purification and
the great healer.
"Each inorganic salt knows how to make some constituent
of the human organism," says Dr. Carey. This
is
proof that
the giving of serums for disease does not constitute
a
logical
treatment, for the body will manufacture its own serums
in
its countless laboratories, provided the little mineral workmen
are supplied. The cerebrum
is
the Father that precipitates
the heavenly dew, and forms the proteus or 'fluidic substance
needed to work with the salts.
Lack of Magnesium phosphate causes many illusions of the
senses and queer mental disorders, as
it
is
closely allied with
Kali or potassium.
Other symptoms are nervous headache, with illusions of
sight; "seeing double"
;
seeing colors.
It
must be remembered
that disturbances
in
the'gray matter of the brain also react
on the eyes. Headache with chilly sensations up and down
the spine may appear; sharp, shooting, darting and inter
mittent pain; all pain which heat relieves and cold aggravates;
pain
in
the nape of the neck, of sharp character; sensitiveness
to light; spasmodic twitching of the eyelids; squinting; pain
in
eyes; spasmodic earache, relieved by heat; loss of sense of
[156]
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
smell. When not caused by a cold, this last is a very unique
symptom. Personally I have proved that, to eradicate
it,
three
other salts are required
in
connection with Magnesium,
i.
'e.,
Natrium mur, Natrium sulph, and Calcium sulph.
Other symptoms are: twitching of mouth or lips; spasmodic
stammering; lockjaw (the gums should also be rubbed with
the salt)
;
convulsions in teething children; spasmodic closing
of the windpipe
(a
very unique and rather rare symptom)
;
constricted feeling
in
the throat; stomach spasms; cramping
of the solar plexus; pain accompanying belching of gas; spas
modic retention of the urine; stricture of the male sexual
organs; menstrual colic; neuralgia of the ovaries (also apply
hot local applications)
;
constrictive cough of asthma; shoot
ing sensation
in
the limbs, resembling electric shocks; trembling
and involuntary motion of the hands; paralysis agitans; epi
leptic spasms; writer's cramp; yawning, with spasmodic strain
ing of the lower jaw.
The modalities indicative of need of this salt are
:
symptoms
relieved by heat, pressure and rubbing; aggravated by cold,
cold air, etc.
It
must be remembered that the fundamental
interpretation of the function of this salt is, that
it
is
'con
cerned with VITALITY, therefore activity, the circulation
of blood, nerve force, glandular fluids, etc., etc.
After setting forth the analysis of the sign Leo,
in
con
junction with that of the lion as its symbol, we have proceeded
to synthesize them with the chemical element doing the leon
ine work.
'
It
now remains to prove that what has been termed positive
emotion
is
also ultimately detrimental.
It
has been generally
accepted that so-called negative emotion
is
injurious. Let
us analyze both.
First let us recall the etymology of the word E-motion,
which
is,
to flow forth, to go out from. The mind and
body are concerned, as has been proved, with MOTION.
E-motion, then, implies disturbance, waste or loss of that
which produces MOTION. Any skilled mechanic will agree.
Any unusual noise around machinery, be
it
ever so slight,
is
at once noticed, and
a
careful examination results imme
diately, for 'it
is
evident that something
is
wrong. Imperfect
insulation of electrical wires, or any imperfection
in
the manu
facture or the installation of apparatus, results
in
a
loss of
electrical power, e. g., one
is
unable to obtain continuous light,
[157]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
or the electrical iron will not heat sufficiently. There are in
numerable other illustrations.
There
is,
then, nothing the matter with electrical energy
(power). The trouble lies with the material, that with which
energy WORKS. Each and every ''part of
a
machine, be
it
ever so tiny,
is
constituted of substance, and
it
must be present,
otherwise one of two things results. Either 'mo energy or
power manifests, or
it
comes and goes,
is
spasmodic
in
its
action.
1
All of the above must be applied to the human body and
the perfect circulation of energy by means of
a
perfect supply
of material to work with. Then there can be no spasmodic
action, no loss of energy.
Emotion
is
the spasmodic action of energy. The BAL
ANCE POINT (which the chapter on Libra considers)
is
quivering and the least thing sends
it
up or down. When the
mind
is
BALANCED (the result of body and brain being
balanced, which takes
a
tremendously long time to accom
plish)
it
will be impossible to be emotional; for this latter
typifies an unbalanced state. 1
In analyzing the two phases of emotion, we find that what
has been interpreted as negative,
is
constrictive
'
or contracting
in
nature; such as fear, sorrow, worry, etc., etc. Everything
contracts, and the entire nervous system gets "tied up
in
a
knot." The solar plexus, that great receiving and broadcast
ing station for the torso, instantly contracts, resulting
in
none
of the organs receiving sufficient energy. The supply of
electricity
is
at once limited.
When
a
person born with the Sun
in
Capricorn
is
thus
affected, digestion stops and dangerous symptoms may result,
especially
if
a
very hearty meal has been eaten. This
is
often
the cause of acute indigestion.
Those born when the Sun
is
transiting the sign Pisces have
the solar plexus for their weakest organ, and so are doubly
handicapped. This subject could be considered indefinitely,
but we have not sufficient space
in
this work.
It
will be fully
covered in
a
future publication on The Biochemic' System
of
Body Building and Astrological Allocation.
However,
it
will be understood that these emotions retard
and sometimes actually shut off energy temporarily. Death
may result.
It
has been thought that joy
is
always beneficial, because
of the fact that
it
seems to stimulate one physically as well
[158]
Leo and Magnesium Phosphate
as mentally. That such is not the case will become clear to
those who have gained some understanding of the work done
in the body by the chemical laborers.
Please remember that there is no quickening or retarding
of energy in a BALANCED BODY. The heart neither
almost stops beating with fear, nor moves spasmodically and
furiously from sudden joy or the passion of so-called love.
Love is EASE, balance, harmony, for it is UNDERSTAND
ING OF THE LAW, hence the living of the law.
Therefore, as a result of the impulse of joyous emotion,
the brain strives to generate and liberate throughout the body
an extra amount of energy. Or it endeavors to quicken the
energy that it has. If it were a NORMAL condition, or
permanent state, when every cell is vibrating at the highest
rate, there would be no reaction of a negative nature, for
there would be no wear and tear or any spasmodic flow of
high-tension current. The effect is identical with that pro
duced by the crossing of wires. A higher current is generated,
with the result that the fuse is burned out.
It is true that joy has been known to kill, and this is proof
of the sudden and intense strain brought to bear on nerves
imperfectly supplied with material. They sometimes snap.
The point I am endeavoring to make clear
is,
that all the
emotions which have been considered as beneficial strain the
nerves and heart. This
is
physiologically true. Therefore let
the fact again be considered that the study of physiology,
anatomy, biochemistry and astrology will clear up all doubts
anyone may have on this subject. The analysis of the sign
Libra alone gives indubitable proof.
It
must always be re
membered that astrology
is
the consideration of the body of
the universe and, by analogy, the anatomy, therefore, of man.
We approach, now, the bowels of the earth, that center
where the rays of Leo are garnered in, the with-drawal into
the womb of man and nature of those forces sent out at
springtime. Involution
is
beginning!
"There was no heavy heat, no cold,
The dwellers there wax never old,
Nor wither with the waning time,
But each man keeps the age he had
When first he won the fairy clime.
The night falls never from on high,
Nor ever burns the heat of noon;
But such soft light eternally
Shines, as in silver dawns of June
Before the sun hath climbed the sky."
[159] Andrew Lang.
Chapter VI
THE ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF VIRGO
AND KALI SULPH
"Thou Virgin Mother, daughter of thy Son,
Humble and high beyond all other creatures."
Dante, Divina Commedia, last Canto.
ON
the twenty-third of August, approximately, the Sun
enters the zodiacal sign Virgo, which is the Latin
word for Virgin. The name "Virgin Mary" had its
origin in this constellation, which is truly the Divine Mother.
The Hebrew term for Virgin is Bethulah; beth, meaning
"house or place" and ulah, meaning "pure water." The Latin
word for pure water or sea is mare. Changing the letter E
to Y we have the name Mary. The term "Virgin Mary"
will thus be seen to have a double significance, since both
names have practically the same meaning purity.
The word Bethlehem is derived from the same Hebrew
root, but instead of house or place of water, its interpretation
is "house or place of bread." However, it will be recalled
that Jesus was born in Bethlehem. In Scriptural writings
Bethlehem is referred to both as "the Bread of Life" and
"the Water of Life."
To mentally register the full meaning of the word VIRGIN,
one should consider all the synonyms used, namely : a male or
female who has had no sexual intercourse; chaste, pure,
undefiled, unsullied, not corrupted, fresh, new, unadulterated.
When the complete significance of this word (Virgin) is
realized, it will perhaps be clear to students of astrology
why the sign Virgo is interpreted as THE HOUSE OF
HEALTH. For no one possesses health until the body is in a
pure, unadulterated state, and until all the synonyms used to
interpret the word Virgin are manifested. It must also be
borne in mind that the first interpretation given in diction
aries, "a male or female who has had no sexual intercourse,"
is outstanding in importance.
When studied from a chemical standpoint, it will be seen
how applicable is the term "unadulterated" as the definition
[160]
Virgo and Kali Sulph
of a pure body. Health exists when all of the chemical con
stituents of the blood are present, since they are the
ORIGINAL ELEMENTS FROM WHICH the Divine
Chemist created it.
The word adulteration means "some of the original
elements missing." Could we have any better description of
disease? It is clear, concise and outstanding; we are not left
in doubt as to its meaning. All humanity is therefore living
in a state of adulteration. We find many Biblical references
to the term "an adulterous nation."
To be perfect, is to be pure, unadulterated.
As stated before, we find scarcely anything, with the excep
tion of some of the sciences, like mathematics, which has not
been perverted. There is no better outstanding example of
this than in the modern and therefore common interpretation
of the word "adultery."
The man-made law relative to adultery is said to mean
"the sexual intercourse of two persons either of whom is
married to a third person." It is therefore considered
unlawful.
The Seventh Commandment reads "Thou shalt not commit
adultery." We find adultery referred to in dictionaries as
"lewdness or unchastity of thought or act as forbidden by the
Seventh Commandment." The Latin word for lewd is
"impudicus" and its literal meaning in that language is
UNCHASTE, INCONTINENT.
As we can not fail to remember that words have definite
meanings, we are therefore unable to deny that the Biblical
injunction literally means that humanity must not be unchaste
or incontinent.
In the Latin lexicon we find the word continent means:
"to keep or bind together, to hold fast, unseparated." Here
we link up with the term adulterate, for when anything is
adulterated it means that the original elements have not been
held fast, are not bound together, but on the contrary have
become separated. Therefore a LOSS is implied.
Doubtless there will be many who will admit that these
interpretations have hitherto been unknown to them, and
naturally it will be difficult to become reconciled. We may
not want them to be true and so we can not do otherwise,
at first, than rebel against facts. We are very slow in learn
[161]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
ing what God's laws are relative to mankind, and extremely
so in interpreting them correctly.
Many years ago I made the declaration to myself that I
wanted TRUTH, FACTS, and I did not care how much they
hurt. If my idea or opinion of a thing was wrong, then I
wanted the correct explanation. I am never satisfied until I
have found it. Everyone has ideas and opinions, but they are
very often incorrect. When the higher faculty begins to
work, we intuitively know when a statement is untrue.
No one accepts truth until he has been forced to do so by
means of experience gained through suffering. There is only
one right and perfect method to gain health, happiness and
peace. No matter how long we sidestep this issue, or how
stubbornly we resist, ultimately we are forced to give in. A
child may not want to believe that he will be burned by placing
his hand against a hot stove, but the fact is not changed.
The word "adult" is derived from the same root as
adulteration, and is "one who has attained full size and
strength maturity." A grown person may indeed appear
to be an adult, but in the light of the above interpretation,
when he is deficient in the original elements, he is merely
adulterated.
Until humanity as a whole turns its attention to the science
of attaining and preserving health, it will indeed be difficult
for any great number to be interested in anything but opinions.
Indeed, a great deal of time will actually be spent in arguing
against facts. A common question having its inception in
the mass mind is: "If continence is the law of God, and if it
were obeyed, the earth would eventually become depopulated."
It is true that the law of God (good or ultimate perfec
tion), is that of continence. But until the triune being,
animal-human-spiritual man attains to perfection (purity
the original state) by ridding himself of all that pertains to
the animal, he is not keeping that law. It is a definite and
long drawn-out process. As continence means NO LOSS OF
ORIGINAL ELEMENTS, therefore no adulteration, this
process of purification deals with all stages and degrees of
loss. It can not be otherwise.
The MINIMUM loss, when correctly analyzed, really
pertains to the fall of man into generation. It represents
an actual sacrifice of cerebral esse by a man and woman in
order that a body may be furnished for an incoming ego. It
[162]
Virgo and Kali Sulph
is solely for the continuance of the race, and as such is the
means whereby evolution may go on.
Reincarnation of the spirit again and again into a new body
should mean a better physical vehicle each time. But so slow
have we been in learning, that very little improvement seems
to have been made. Many pass out in infancy. Is it not true
of the average person that he or she is well past middle life
before even diet is considered?
The unconsciously facetious statement was made in a
juvenile composition recently that "a beast is an imperfect
animal. Man is the only perfect beast." This would seem
to be true in more than one instance since Uranus entered
Aries in 1927, so chaotic has the human brain become.
It is a fact generally recognized, that the true animal obeys
the law of God relative to procreation. Death, as the
inevitable result of the fall of man into generation, will
gradually be eliminated by a reversal of method.
The animal has its seasons when, from instinct, it prepares
to perpetuate its kind. It does not seek to cohabit BECAUSE
OF LOVE OF SENSATION, as does humanity. The
detrimental effect resulting from man's fall into generation
became intensified a thousand fold by this perversion, caused
by the hypnotic power of the sensation created by the act.
Thus humanity became almost hopelessly enmeshed in the
coils of this serpent of desire.
"The serpent beguiled me and I did eat," said Eve, the
negative, material, magnetic part of the human body, other
wise the procreative substance. The loss of the creative esse
which originates in the cerebrum, the Father's house, as has
been stated in the first chapter, eventually results in death.
As the meaning of Eve in Hebrew is LIFE, it is evident that
the beguilement of sensation results in the loss of life itself.
A study of the revelations of this remarkable sign, Virgo,
will solve the problem of religion. It will at the same time
answer the question relative to the real purpose of astrology.
As Virgo is the sixth sign in the natural zodiac, it has to do
with sex or creation, but on a plane higher than any with
which we have been dealing.
Reviewing a point mentioned in the previous chapter on
Leo, we find that the consuming fire of the Sun in August
represents the first step in a different cosmic and physical pro
cess. It signifies the iNDRAWING of energy into the earth,
[163]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
i. e., its concentration into the earth's matrix, or womb of the
Divine Mother (Virgo), if it is not wasted through emotion.
It is stated in works on astrology that Virgo is an earth
sign, female, but barren. As there are said to be male (posi
tive), female (negative) and neuter planets, it has been evi
dent to me for some time that the zodiacal signs must be
divided in like manner. Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius and Pisces
are thus neutral signs. I have named them the purification
cross. This has resulted in much new (to this age) informa
tion being gained. The allocating salts also have to do with
cleansing.
Virgo was allocated in ancient times with the solar plexus
and bowels. We find this plexus to be the abdominal brain
and therefore a matrix or WOMB. From the latter word
we obtain the so-called feminine interpretation, but because
it is creative ONLY ON A HIGHER PLANE, it must be
interpreted as neuter or barren. It is barren to CARNAL
ITY, therefore represents BARREN EARTH. But it is
indeed fertile to spirituality, which is the source of its name
VIRGO, the VIRGIN.
Before going further with the astrological explanation, we
must analyze this sign anatomically and physiologically.
The solar plexus lies directly back of the stomach and
consists of a group of twelve different nerve ganglia whose
arrangement, together with the multitudinous nerves which
branch off from it in all directions, is responsible for its name,
sun plexus.
It is the largest of the three sympathetic plexuses, and
receives the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves of both sides
and some filaments from the right vagus. As it supplies the
energy required by the organs in the torso, it is evident that
anything affecting the sympathetic system will react instantly
on the solar plexus.
The most important parts are the semilunar ganglia. These
are two large irregularly-shaped masses having the appear
ance of lymph glands, placed one on either side of the middle
line and in front of the crura of the diaphragm close to the
supra-renal glands. The one on the right side is placed behind
the inferior vena cava.
Besides the two semilunar ganglia there are the following:
the phrenic; the hepatic; the lienal; the superior gastric; the
suprarenal; the renal; the spermatic; the superior mesenteric;
[164]
Virgo and Kali Sulph
the abdominal aortic, and the inferior mesenteric. Earnest
students should have Gray's Anatomy, and obtain a thorough
knowledge of these ganglia. When this is done it will be
easy to verify or disprove the statements made by different
writers on occult subjects, especially those having to do with
the chakras or esoteric nerve centers. Mistakes often occur
in translating ancient Sanskrit writings; also in the statements
made by occidental writers who claim to have obtained their
information on this subject by psychic means.
One in the latter class has stated that the spleenic or lienal
plexus is separate or independent it is not given as one of
the twelve divisions of the solar plexus. It
is,
however, one
of the solar plexus ganglia.
Some information of an unusual nature relative to the spleen
will be given
in
the forthcoming book, The Truth About Sex and
Birth Control. This publication will include New Facts About
the Glands, which was originally planned as
a
separate book.
Each of the twelve divisions of the solar plexus allocates
with one of the signs of the zodiac and hence with
a
certain
part of the body. The plexus itself
is
a
little zodiac.
The spermatic plexus has to do with procreative seed.
It
accompanies the internal spermatic artery to the testes of the
male and to the ovaries and uterus of the female.
It
will be
easy to understand, therefore, that every sensual thought
instantaneously reaches the solar plexus and
is
relayed direct
ly
to the sexual organs. Thus nerve, blood and glandular
circulation and action are at once accelerated. This again
reacts on the mind because of the sensations produced.
The solar plexus
is
the seat of feeling and sensation. There
fore the old and familiar expression "I love you with all my
heart"
is
incorrect. When real or pure love, which
is
the only
feeling worthy of being called love, permeates one's being,
it
is
the out-pouring of the Spirit. Therefore we love mentally
with the cerebrum. The correct expression for the affection
which one person experiences for another
is,
"I love you with
all my solar plexus," therefore with the bowels as well, for
they are both allocated with Virgo.
Of course this correct expression of one's feelings
is
not
at all attractive, for
it
is
very prosaic. Naturally the poetic
appeals to us more. However, we find several references to
the prosaic terminology
in
the Scriptures as any Word Book
or Concordance will prove. Some of them are: "Bowels of
[165]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
compassion; bowels of mercy; bowels of affection; Jacob's
bowels yearned after his son," etc., etc.
In Philippians 1 :8, we read "For God is my record, how
greatly I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ."
The interpretation of the word "bowels" is "the interior
part of anything," as of the earth; the seat of feeling, etc. As
Shakespeare has said: "Thou thing of no bowels," and "his
soldiers rushed into the bowels of the battle."
The word intestine means "within, on the inside, internal,
inclosed or confined subjective," the latter interpreted in the
Latin lexicon as "placing or laying under" which is very
applicable. If the intestines were drawn out in a straight
line they would cover a space five or six times the length of
the body. Is it any wonder that the ancients named the con
stellation allocating with this part of the anatomy the Great
Dragon or Hydra?
In the twelfth chapter of Revelation, first to sixth verse, we
read: "And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a
woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet,
and upon her head a crown of twelve stars:
"And she being with child cried, travailing in birth, and
pained to be delivered.
"And there appeared another wonder in heaven; and behold
a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and
seven crowns upon his head.
"And his tail drew a third part of the stars of heaven, and
did cast them to the earth; and the dragon stood before the
woman which was ready to be delivered, for to devour her
child as soon as it was born.
"And she brought forth a man child who was to rule all
nations with a rod of iron; and her child was caught up unto
God and to his throne."
We find direct evidence in the above passages that the
constellation of Virgo is referred to. As it is by nature a
neuter sign because BARREN TO CARNALITY (virgin)
we may term it neuter-feminine, for the reason that it has
to do with mater-ial (mother-substance).
In the esoteric story in the Scriptures, the Virgin Mary
gave birth to Jesus. Jesus is the Latinized Greek form of
Joshua, who was the son of Nun. As Nun is Hebrew for
fish, progeny or life-germ, the analogy should be plain, for it
is the origin of the religion of the FISHERMEN. Jesus
[ 166]
Virgo and Kali Sulph
is a Divine Fish or psycho-physical gcrmseed which is formed
in the solar plexus center, the semi-lunar ganglia, when this
hub of our physical wheel is at last perfected.
The solar plexus is always deficient in power until the
cerebrum and cerebellum are perfected, for insufficient is gen
erated to supply it. In addition, none of its own parts are
perfect. Therefore it is unable to respond, other than in a
spasmodic way, to the energy which it receives from the brain.
The solar plexus is both a receiving and a broadcasting station.
The intestinal tract also reflects the state or condition of
the body. Most people are troubled more or less with con
stipation, and admit it. Others, who have one evacuation
per day, think this sufficient. Such is not the case. Whenever
food is taken into the stomach a bowel movement should
occur soon after, for the stomach and intestinal tract are con
nected. They are one long passage, the two openings of
which are the mouth and the anus. Is
it,
then, any wonder
that the breath of the average person
is
not sweet or that the
tongue
is
coated?
It
does not always prove true that the intestinal tract
is
healthy when
a
person has several movements during the day.
The condition termed "running off" of the bowels may exist.
This
is
caused
by
very great deficiency in the Scorpio cell salt,
Calcium sulph, which
is
plaster of Paris.
This unique material coats all the vascular surfaces of the
body, exactly as the coarser form of
it
is
used
in
the arts to
make casts and for
a
protective covering for walls. Its use
in
the human body
is
exactly the same. When
it
becomes
deficient
in
the walls of the intestines, they are irritated by
the effete material constantly contacting their surface. The
result
is
similar to that of
a
blister on any exterior part of
the body. The delicate vascular fibers give up their water or
fluid, and pieces of the scaly wall are found
in
it.
Naturally this condition results
in
great weakness
if
con
tinued. Generous doses of Calcium sulph must be taken
in
hot water, when its soothing effect will be almost instantly
noticeable.
It
at once coats the intestinal surfaces and the
irritation
is
allayed. See chapter on Scorpio for other
in
formation relative to this salt.
There are probably very, very few people who have
splendidly functioning livers and stomachs. In all the astro
logical charts coming under my notice either one or the other
[167]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
(and usually both) has been found to function very imperfect
ly. Constipation is common.
We have conclusive evidence, therefore, that the anatomical
parts allocating with Virgo REFLECT the condition of the
entire body. We can synthesize this statement with the fol
lowing analogy: the Sun (energy) in the bowels of the earth
REFLECTS energy (broadcasts it also) to the degree in
which it RECEIVES it. The human body possesses two
lenses. The one in the cerebrum which focuses light vibra
tions impinging on the brain from above into the optic thala
mic center, is the upper, and the celiac ganglia of the solar
plexus is the lower.
It will always be found, when the body is studied intensively
that there are two centers of a kind, one being above, and
positive, the other below and negative.
It can not be repeated too often that the glyphs and symbols
of the twelve signs of the zodiac are the repositories of secret
lore and invaluable information. Let us study those of Virgo.
For a long time it had been evident to me that the ancient
and therefore fundamental idea embodied in this glyph was
that of the Virgin and Child (Jesus), but it was not until
about three years ago that I found my proof.
It is plain to be seen that the first part of this symbol is
the letter M, which from time immemorial has typified
WATER. Recalling the statements made relative to the
definition of Virgin Mary in the beginning of this chapter,
we realize that they are here verified in the cryptic meaning
of the letter. In Hebrew M is spelled Mem, and in that
ancient language means MOTHER, the female, material or
substance; also magnetic, the negative, etc., etc. It is one of
the three sacred letters which are termed "MOTHERS."
While studying some Phoenician characters one day, my at
tention was attracted to a certain letter. There was some
thing about it which enthralled me. Suddenly it dawned on me
that it was the last part of the Virgo sign, the part attached to
the M. This Phoenician character is the letter N and in
Hebrew its meaning is FISH or JESUS. If the Virgo symbol
is studied carefully, it will be found that the addition of N
actually represents a fish standing erect on its tail and with
open mouth, thus W.
There is no astrological work available which gives any
information of the above nature relative to the sign Virgo.
[168]
Virgo and Kali Sulph
It is my firm conviction that the analysis of this sign is alone
sufficient to prove for all time that the sole purpose of
astrology is to furnish mankind with the astro-chemical plan
for its physical and mental regeneration.
As body and brain improve, intuition will quicken. One
will know, intuitively, when to take a journey, will auto
matically, as it were, follow safe paths and will never be sub
ject to injury. No advice will be asked of another, who, in
spite of frequent examinations of aspects, suffers financial re
verses, poor health, and privately is just as discouraged, at
times, as one having no knowledge of astrology. We have all
been in this condition, but the study of this mighty science
allocated with chemistry, anatomy and physiology will even
tually result in the fulfillment of the old injunction, "Man,
know THYSELF."
We find another fact of an astounding nature derived from
the study of the word Christ. Jesus, the new man IN man,
becomes the Christ, otherwise Jesus Christed. Greek scholars
do not interpret the word Christos as a person but as a
THING. Christ means anointed or oiled, and the literal in
terpretation is OIL. If the translators of the Scriptures had
not interpreted things as persons, or parts of the body as geo
graphical locations, the age-long perversion of religion would
not have occurred. The Bible, as stated before, is a mass of
scientific facts relative to the BODY of man, as well as the
universe.
As man is the universal term for both male and female,
it will be realized that when all parts of the body are con
stantly receiving all of the required chemical elements, and all
laws relative to right living are being obeyed, the physical
form will then change very rapidly. Eventually this constant
good work will result in a perfectly functioning system.
As the solar plexus is anatomically and physiologically a
TWELVE part machine, it constitutes a complete process.
The science of numerology must be considered for a moment,
in order to add another point of verification relative to the
previous statements. To do this we must refer to the letter
M in the Virgo glyph.
M is the THIRTEENTH letter in the Kabbala and when
its true meaning, as explained in this chapter, is understood,
the age-long superstition relative to thirteen being unlucky
will be solved. Until we become TRUE VIRGINS in other
[169]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
words, until we are no longer adulterated, we are and will con
tinue to be UNLUCKY.
To be lucky does not mean sidestepping the result of wrong
doing, for inevitably the fiddler has to be paid. It merely
has to do with a seeming delay in the matter of settlement.
The student should become familiar with The Tarot of the
Bohemians, by Papus, as it is without doubt one of the best
on the subject.
Numerology has not escaped perversion at the hands of
some modern writers. A study of the Tarot cards which
allocate with the letters of the Hebrew alphabet as given in
the above named treatise, will reveal much information which
will be recognized at once as verifying the points set forth
herein.
The letter M or Mem is the center between creation as
embodied in the tenth letter Yod, and Ayin, the sixteenth
letter of the Hebrew alphabet, which deals with the end of
things, meaning rather the end of one phase of life and the
beginning of a new. As Ayin is said to be allocated in a
certain way with Capricorn, the above explanation will prove
true. The god Janus which was the Roman name for January,
was pictured as a man with two faces, one looking backward
(to the past), the other looking toward the future, thus the
beginning and the ending of a thing. As January is the month
when the civil year, or New Year begins, it also stands for the
ending of the old. This, however, is the exoteric explanation.
The esoteric is much more instructive, as will be found by
studying chapter ten on Capricorn.
As we have discovered from the analysis of the letter M,
the true interpretation of the state or condition represented
is one of perfect action. We next consider THAT NEW
THING WHICH CAN NOW BE PRODUCED BY
MEANS OF PERFECT ACTION, namely A GOOD
THING, ONE THAT IS GOD-LIKE. The product of
any machine operating perfectly is the perfect product.
Virgo, then, that strange center in the human body, con
cerning which so little has been discovered, has now become
prepared and capable of producing an entirely new thing
THE NEW MAN, or man made new. For no longer is the
supply of energy needed by the twelve divisions of the body
diminished; never again can the corpuscles of the body die,
for there is never any deficency in material to sustain them.
[170]
Virgo and Kali Sulph
Virgo is no longer Mary Magdalene, she is now the Widow.
The modern interpretation of this word has completely veiled
its true significance. It means "to be separated from, to lack,"
and therefore may have other reference in addition to a
female who is separated from her husband.
There are many Scriptural references to this word and in
Freemasonry the initiate is the son of the widow. One who
has separated from the old life of destruction and has begun
a NEW one is an initiate, for the meaning of the latter word
is "to commence, to make a beginning with."
A work on The Physiological Explanation of Freemasonry
is in the course of preparation. In it the physiological inter
pretation of the thirty-three degrees will be given, also the
astrological and numerical or Kabbalistic. It will doubtless
surprise those interested in this subject to find that the
thirteenth degree in Freemasonry allocates with the first decan
of Virgo, and is the Royal Arch of Solomon. The candidate
of this degree becomes the Knight of the Sacred Vault, which
is indeed in the bowels of the earth. He is entitled to wear
a golden triangle on which is the name Enoch, the meaning
of which in Hebrew is "INITIATED."
Indeed, so accurately do the sciences of astrology, chem
istry, anatomy and physiology interpret and verify Free
masonry, that they also serve to indicate where it has been
grossly perverted.
Further verification of the correctness of my allocation of
the thirteenth degree of the Royal Arch to the sign Virgo is
found in the statement of the candidate for this degree when
he is asked where he is. His reply is "I am in the bowels of
the earth where the light of the sun is not needed."
Virgo is an earth sign allocating with the bowels, and as it
is the SUN CENTER (the sun thus being in the bowels of
the earth), NO LIGHT IS NEEDED. Why? The answer
is BECAUSE THE CANDIDATE REPRESENTS THE
SUN ITSELF IN THIS DEGREE. When we find truth,
its simplicity astounds us.
We find, then, that the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth
degrees of Freemasonry allocate respectively with the three
decans of Virgo.
As the middle decan of any sign is its matrix, it is interest
ing to note in this instance that the Hebrew letter allocating
with the fourteenth degree, that of the Perfect Elu, is N or
[171]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Jesus. Note, please, that the letter which in Hebrew means
Jesus or the new man, actually falls over the womb or matrix
of the Virgin. How clearly the Scriptures state what next
occurs: "OUT OF DARKNESS COMETH LIGHT."
Jesus is truly the light of each individual world or material
whorl the human body. And it is indeed true that when the
Light at last appears in our darkness, the path of life is for-
evermore illuminated; so much so, in very truth, that we are
told no outer light from sun or moon is needed.
How wonderfully the vibration of the Aquarian or Air
Age is bringing this to the attention of the world ! It is only
in the last few years that the tops of buildings have been
illuminated with colored as well as beacon lights. They
represent the struggle of the Spirit in man to make him realize
that he also has a head light, although he is doing everything
possible to destroy instead of perfect the Lamp within his
Holy of Holies the optic thalamus.
Love of sensation has caused man's body to become dulled
and semi-paralyzed by the more or less continuous indulgence.
This has given rise to the invention of the popular slogan
"give me something with a kick in it." The reason for this
is obvious. NOTHING LESS THAN A KICK WILL
PRODUCE ANY SENSATION. Can health of body and
brain exist in one using this slogan? The careful study of this
expression will throw much light on the long list of sexual
perversions so common among humanity.
Sensation wastes energy and actually consumes material, as
stated in the preceding chapter on Leo.
Resuming comment on the allocation of the thirteenth and
fourteenth degrees of Freemasonry with the first and second
decans of Virgo, it would seem that the foregoing synthesis
should prove indubitably that this constitutes a definite system
by which information on any subject may be obtained. Per
sonally I have found such to be the case.
The fourteenth degree represents the number five, and the
fifth letter in the Tarot is HE or E. The name of the Tarot
card bearing the objects and figure symbolizing this letter
(containing its interpretation) is THE POPE. As the word
Pope is Latin for papa or father, it is evident that it has
never referred to any special representative or indeed to any
historical personage, but on the contrary to THE NEW
MAN WHO IS THE TRUE SON OF THE FATHER
[172]
Virgo and Kali Sulph
AND BECOMES ONE WITH HIM. The fruit of the
perfect solar plexus or womb of creation (Mary) becomes
one with the spiritual consciousness (Aries the Father) by
working in harmony with it. Read all that Papus has to say
of this letter.
Since Neptune, the ruler of the spiritual phase of Pisces,
entered the house of the Virgin in October of 1928, a general
upheaval and "housecleaning" in respect to all matters per
taining to Pisces, Gemini, Virgo and Sagittarius has been
going on. And as Neptune requires fourteen years to transit
a sign, great changes will take place. As the vibration of this
planet is the highest known, it represents the Christ Conscious
ness itself. A real purification has begun. We have already
begun to note that a change for the better is being initiated
relative to cinema.
A broad-minded altruistic person endeavors to start a move
ment along a certain line. A few co-operate, but the great
mass of people are not interested. Years pass when, almost
over night and out of a clear sky, great interest is aroused.
Newspapers and magazines feature articles on the subject
where before they scarcely mentioned it even desultorily.
They perhaps even ridiculed it.
The young people of today can not possibly appreciate the
older viewpoint, for they were not living in pre-Aquarian
atmosphere. Eventually the brain will become steady, and
at last, far above the scrap heap of old ideas and opinions,
the white wings of TRUTH will be seen, shorn at last of all
perversion.
As the Aquarian age is devoid of all that pertains to the
animal, liquor, tobacco, drugs and meat as food will gradually
disappear. For the outraged body will no longer consent to
receive what it has NO USE FOR, being no part of a healthy
body.
The letter He, then, stands for the Divine Spirit, the
MEDIATING principle, which attaches the material body
to itself. Man requires no other mediator. Down through
the ages (and even today) the majority have worshiped per
sonalities, both mystical and modern, thus losing sight of
TRUTH. But already the Divine Virgin is beginning to
manifest in the heavens and her breath is already being dif
fused through the ethers.
In ancient times a Vestal Virgin was a maiden who was
[173]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
dedicated to the goddess Vesta or Hestia. This supposed
being was the custodian of the Sacred Fire. It was lighted
afresh annually at the Spring Equinox (Aries). The duty of
the virgins was TO KEEP THE FIRE OF THE TEMPLE
ALWAYS BURNING, and its extinction was considered a
national calamity. The virgins were required to be of spot
less chastity.
In the French calendar the Virgo period is termed "the
fruit month" which is very appropriate from the esoteric as
well as the exoteric viewpoint. It was termed the Holy-month
by the ancients, as the nativity of the Virgin Mary fell on the
eighth of September, and the exaltation of the Cross on the
fourteenth. Using the ancient Sanskrit method of analyzing
a sign by the twelve divisional means, the date of the nativity
falls over the Aquarian (son of Man) vibration of Virgo,
while the exaltation of the Cross falls over that of Taurus,
which in itself constitutes the actual physiological cross. In
Hebrew tau is the word for cross. Thus another verification
is added to the list. As the constellation of Aquarius is repre
sented by the figure of a man with an urn from which the
water of life is being poured, it is symbolical of the fact that
only by the complete purification of the saline solution of the
blood is the VIRGIN state entered into. This constitutes the
birth (manifestation) of the Virgin, in other words her
nativity.
Virgo has many names among nations and peoples. She
is Isis, wife of Osiris; Juno, wife of Jupiter; Cybele, consort
of Chronus; Venus, wife of Mars (represented especially by
the last decan of Virgo) which is ruled by Venus; she is Ceres,
wife of Zeus; the Virgin Coronis, wife of Esculapius; the
Virgin Maia, mother of Mercury; Rebekah, wife and sister
of Isaac; Rachel, wife of Jacob; Ruth, wife of Boaz, and last
but far from the least she is the Mother of Christ.
The astrological interpretation of the Virgin is that Virgo
is the only one who can give birth to a son and still remain
a Virgin. The Virgin of September has a Sun once every
year. It is also the time and place for the manifestation of
the Divine Son in us when the necessary work has been con
summated.
Then only is the Virgin "clothed with the Sun, the Moon
under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars"
(Revelation 12:1-6).
[174]
Virgo and Kali Sulph
As Virgo is Bethlehem (house of bread), it is natural that
we understand it to mean THE BREAD OF LIFE. "At
the time of the assumption of the Virgin, which takes place
on the fifteenth, the sun is so entirely in the constellation of
the Virgin that the stars of which it is composed are rendered
invisible by the effulgence of its rays," says Dr. Wakeman
Ryno.
As the last decan of Virgo is the Taurian, and ruled by the
Venus vibration, it constitutes the STABLE wherein the bull
is housed and close to the spot (middle decan) wherein the
Holy Child is born.
It will be well at this point to read over the chapter on
Taurus, and note that the middle decan of that sign is related
to Virgo. Falling as it does on the first day of May it is
commemorated as May day, sacred to the goddess Maia, the
Virgin.
The free woman is Virgo, and no human being is ever
FREE until he or she has attained to virginity. Therefore
slavery still exists and will, for many a long year.
The Eleusinian mysteries were sacred to Ceres (Virgo) and
in Greek mythology are said to represent THE ALTERNA
TION OF DEATH AND LIFE. This statement gives
further proof of the correct allocation of health to this sign.
A word which is erroneously used is "HEAL." How often
we hear the statement "I was healed of such and such a dis
ease." The word means "TO BE MADE WHOLE" and
applies solely to the Virgin state. None are healed until
WHOLE or HOLY. Moreover no one can heal another.
Each one must do it for himself, just as the Scriptures state.
One by one the so-called "healers" pass on, garnered in by the
great Reaper whom they have cheated out of that which
would have made them whole. They had not been fed
"GOOD SEED" and therefore could not produce A PER
FECT SEED, "the one and only one," the Virgin's Son.
A story of Proserpina (daughter of Virgo Ceres) as
queen of the underworld (bowels of the earth) is symbolical
of the negative interpretation of Virgo, and also of corn,
which is the archaic name for seed. It signifies the seed-corn,
which, when cast into the ground, lies there concealed and is
carried off by the god of the underworld. When the seed
sprouts and shoots upward, its appearance is said to sym
bolize the return of Proserpina to Ceres, the Virgin.
[175]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
The etymology of the word Ceres is interesting, being
derived from the Sanskrit stem "cer or Kri" meaning "to
make." By metonomy the word comes to signify "corn" in
the Latin.
Some of the old Semitic names of Virgo are: "Shepherd-
Spirit-of-Heaven; Proclaimer-of-rain; Great-storm-bird and
Bird-of-the-great-seed." The latter name will be seen to be
exceedingly esoteric, the Great-Seed being "the bread of life."
Ab-nam is "The Proclaimer-of-rain" while Imdugudkhu, "The
Great-storm-bird" is the crow. Spica, the bright star which
the Virgin holds in her hand is Ululu or Siru, meaning "the
ear of corn."
The Crow in the constellation of the Virgin is named Sizi
in the Euphratean Celestial Sphere and Prof. Sayce gives the
translation as "greenish-yellow" which is the color of Virgo,
the first half of the sign being yellow and the last half green.
It will be noted on studying the accompanying color chart
that the yellow-green of the spectrum zodiac falls exactly
over Virgo.
In the Euphratean Star-List we find Sakh, which is their
name for Spica, the great star interpreted by them as a spike
of wheat in the hand of the Virgin. It is spoken of as "the
star of Prosperity." It is also called "khi-se" (Propitious-
one-of-seed) and "Sema" (Corn-bearer). The creation of the
Great Seed is indeed evidence of physiological prosperity.
In Ogygian ages and among the Orientals, Virgo was repre
sented as a sun-burned damsel with an ear of corn in her hand,
like a gleaner in the field.
Ovid tells us that Virgo was the maiden who hung herself
in grief at the death of her father Icarius and was transported
as Bootes to the skies with Icarius and their faithful hound
Procyon or Sirius.
Richard Allen, in Star Names and Their Meanings, says :
"Virgo is the oldest purely allegorical representation of inno
cence and virtue. She is Cybele, drawn by lions, for our Leo
immediately precedes her. Avienus identifies her with Isis,
the thousand-named goddess who holds in her hand the wheat
ear which she afterwards drops to form the Milky Way. She
is also represented as clasping in her arms the young Horus,
the infant southern sun-god, the last of the Divine Kings.
This very ancient figuring reappeared in the Middle Ages as
[176]
Virgo and Kali Sulph
the Virgin Mary with the child Jesus, Shakespeare alluding
to it in Titus Andronicus as 'The God Boy in Virgo's lap.'
"
"In India, Virgo was Kanya, the Tamil 'Kauni,' or maiden,
mother of the great Krishna. In the land of Judaea, Virgo
was Bethulah, and being always associated with the idea of
abundance in harvest, was assigned by the Rabbis to the tribe
of Asher, of whom Jacob had declared 'his bread shall be
fat,' "
says Richard Allen.
From Star Names and Their Meanings, we also quote the
following: "In astrology this constellation and Gemini con
stitute the HOUSE OF MERCURY, Macrobius saying that
the planet was created here; the association being plainly
shown by the caduceus of that god, the herald's trumpet en
twined with serpents, instead of the palm branch, often repre
sented in her left hand. The Alfonsine Tables showed her
as a very young girl with wings; the Leyden Manuscript and
the Hygius of 1488 as a young woman with branch and cadu
ceus; and the Albumasar of 1489 as a woman with a fillet of
wheat ears.
"But all these figurings, ancient as some of them are, are
modern when compared with the still enduring Sphinx general
ly proclaimed as prehistoric, perhaps of the times of Hor-
she-shu, long anterior to the first Egyptian ruler, Menes; and
constructed, according to Greek tradition with Virgo's head
on Leo's body, from the fact that the sun passed through
these two constellations during the inundation of the Nile."
The Sphinx was mentioned in Chapter V as having the
body of a lion and the head of a man, which latter is its
opposite sign Aquarius. Thus the Sphinx. represents the polar
opposites and is typical of the beast of prey and the regen
erated being. Personally this interpretation appeals to me
more than the one in Star Names.
In Latin, the word spica means spike or ear of corn, and
hence is the name given to the star which is seen in the left
hand of the Virgin. In Webster's Dictionary it is also inter
preted as a nail or thorn. The Latin meanings, however, are
of first importance.
"The Hindus knew Spica as Citra, figured as a lamp or
as a Pearl," says Richard Allen, both names significant of
Jesus. He also states that the Babylonian name was "Emuku
Tin-tir-ki, the Might of the Abode of Life," which is equally
good.
[177]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
In Egypt, Spica was the Lute-Bearer; also Repa, the Lord.
Two temples were built in Greece, almost touching one an
other, oriented to follow the shifting places of this star, testi
fying to its sacred character.
Spica is one of the lunar stars much utilized in navigation,
and Mr. Allen states that "it lies but two degrees south of
the ecliptic, and ten degrees south of the celestial equator,
coming to a meridian on the twenty-eighth of May." It will
be seen that this is a position of great power, tending to bring
to a climax matters pertaining to Pisces, Sagittarius, Gemini
and Virgo.
"A pale violet star on the front of the garment of the
Virgin and below the girdle is named Apami-Atsa, or The
Child of the Waters. With an adjacent star it was known
in China as Ping-Taou, the Plain and Even Way" says Mr.
Allen in Star Names and Their Meanings.
All the above quotations relative to the stars of Virgo,
serve to prove to us that this old, old story of the New Man,
which is indeed "The plain and even way," antedates all of
the Scriptures in existence. It is a very old story, but becomes
ever new to each individual as he places his feet at last upon
the path which leads Home.
Virgo is indeed the hub of the physical wheel, the branching
nerves of the solar plexus forming its spokes. Madam
Blavatsky states in her Secret Doctrine, referring to the Virgin
Mary and this sign: "When the point generates a line it
becomes a diameter which stands for the androgynous Logos.
When the son separates from the mother he becomes the
Father." Thus in, the Scriptures Jesus preaches in the
Temple, enters the Jordan (separating from the Virgo center)
to be baptized in its oil, and ascends.
Early Christians symbolized the Holy Ghost (Water of
Life from the pituitary gland or Isis), as a shape of fire
(cloven tongues like as fire) constituting the breath of the
Father-Sun. In the physiological process, the fire descends into
the water or the sea (Mare or Mary). Thus it is that Jesus
(the little son) is born or formed of the union of fire, or spirit,
and water, or Mary.
As mythology informs us, Venus arose from the foam
(froth) of the sea at the wounding of Uranus, and hence was
called by the Greeks, Aphrodite, the foam-born. As Uranus
is ruler of Aquarius, the sign of the Son of Man, it is obvious
[178]
Virgo and Kali Sulph
that Venus is analogous to Mary Magdalene, since she rose
from the sea as a result of that wounding. It is said of Venus,
"In her broidered girdle lurk love and desire, and loving con
verse that steals the wits even of the wise." Indeed does lust
or venality (derived from the same root as Venus) rob the
brain of its power.
When Jupiter enters Virgo in 1932 to work with Neptune
it will be natural to expect very great disturbances and up
heavals of ocean beds, tidal waves, earthquakes, and great
landslides. The Hub of the Wheel will seek to readjust itself,
and create a real center of balance, since the old has gotten
out of alignment.
Madam Blavatsky states that "Jupiter is merely the per
sonification of that immutable Cyclic Law, which arrests the
downward tendency of each Root Race, after attaining the
zenith of its glory." So, once again, as Jupiter transits Virgo,
we will find Divine Mind reasserting itself in its endeavors
to fructify the Divine Mother in humanity, so that she may
become big with the Divine Child. This constitutes the
trinity.
Virgo is the Phoenix, which, when resurrected, again be
comes man's hope of immortality.
In G. A. Gaskell's Dictionary of the Sacred Language of
All Scriptures and Myths, we find splendid references to the
Virgin, all of which add to the foregoing.
"The Virgin: symbol of the purified emotion, or purified
lower nature, no longer fructified by the desire-mind." Virgo
is a barren earth sign, as stated elsewhere in this chapter; and,
whether the Sphinx, as Leo, has the head of Virgo or that of
Aquarius, the interpretation is the same.
How appropriate is Mr. Gaskell's quotation from Philo
Judaeus, De Cherub, 14, 15: "For the congress of men for
the procreation of children makes virgins women. But when
God begins to associate with the soul, He brings it to pass
that she who was formerly woman becomes virgin again. For,
banishing the foreign and degenerate and non-virile desires
by which it was made womanish, He substitutes for them
native and noble and pure virtues. For it is fitting that God
should converse with an undefiled, an untouched and pure
nature, with her who is in very truth the Virgin."
The foregoing substantiates our previous statement that
even congress between the sexes for the procreation of children
[179]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvatiox
robs both bodies of many corpuscles which eventually, in the
natural order of things, will remain within the body.
It
is,
as Philo Judseus states, the result of
a
NON-VIRILE
desire. Absolute virility can not exist as long as the body
is
robbed of even one corpuscle.
Bishop Methodius says,
in
Harnack's "History
of
Dogma"
and quoted by Mr. Gaskell
:
"Exceedingly wonderful and
glorious is
virginity. This most noble and fair practice
is
the
flower and first fruits of INCORRUPTION. . . . The state
of virginity, WHICH IS THE GOAL OF THE INCAR
NATION, THOUGH ALL MAY NOT YET REACH
IT. We must understand that virginity, while walking upon
the earth, reaches the heavens." The meaning of the last
statement
is
"that the purified lower nature (earth) becomes
raised and united with the higher nature (heaven)."
Virgo
is
the Womb of Maya, as Mr. Gaskell says: "A
symbol of primordial matter, astral and physical in which
the world-soul
is
conceived
in
the period of involution, and
from which
it
is
brought forth into the manifest existence of
the involutionary cycle."
It
will be observed that Mr. Gas
kell agrees with our previous statement that astrologically
and physiologically Virgo stands for involution, the indrawing
of forces.
"A Divine element,
a
spiritual quickening, is required for
the evolution of anything God-like
in
our mundane sphere;
it
is
a
Virgin Birth. Lower acting upon lower can never pro
duce
a
higher.
It
is
the downpouring and incoming of the
higher to the lower which produces through the lower the
Divine manhood which leaves the brute behind. This
is
the
sense in which
it
is
true that Jesus was of Divine as well as
human parentage." R.
J.
Campbell, "The New Theology."
The initiation of
a
candidate in
a
cavern, Jesus being born
in
a
cave, and the thirteenth degree of Freemasonry are all sym
bolical of the formation of the New Man
in
us.
In completing our quotations from Mr. Gaskell we give
his reference to Virgo as
a
zodiacal sign
:
"A symbol of the
sixth period
in
the cycle of life.
It
signifies the completion of
the process of involution resulting in the one perfect matrix
of Matter fully permeated and informed by Spirit, and ready
to bring forth the qualities and the Christ
in
many souls dur
ing the subsequent six periods of evolution. Christ, the
Archetypal Man, who
is
perfected and dies in involution,
is
[180]
Virgo and Kali Sulph
also the Archetypal Virgo who brings forth, as Mother
Matter, all things during evolution: 'For in him were all
things created, in the heavens and upon the earth, things
visible and things invisible.'
"
Col. 1:16.
The above Biblical quotation is extremely appropriate, for
it serves as a perfect link between the physiological, astro
logical and metaphysical analysis just completed, and their
synthesis with Kali sulph or sulphate of potassium which Dr.
Carey allocates with the sign Virgo. For in very truth out
of this salt ALL THINGS MAY BE OBTAINED, since
it is THE MAKER OF OIL ITSELF. As Christ is all, as
the Scriptures state, so is oil a quintessence. The sixth contains
the five and quintessence means the fifth, last or highest
essence or power in a natural body; pure and concentrated
essence.
As the word essence is derived from the Latin esse, which
means "to be," it
is,
therefore, the essence of being (exist
ence).
It
is
the very substance upon which life itself depends.
Quintessence
is,
therefore, the essence refined to the Nth
degree. N,
it
will be recalled,
is
used
in
algebra to express
the highest power to which an equation may be raised.
A very old interpretation of the word essence
is
medulla
or marrow, the PITH of anything. The meaning of pith
is
a
pit or kernel that which contains the strength or life, the
vital or ESSENTIAL PART.
It
is
very interesting to find that the Middle English word
for marrow
is
MARY. Marrow
is
the highly vascular, soft
tissue which fills the cavities of most bones. As the marrow
of the long bones
is
said to contain 95 percent fat,
it
will be
seen that
it
is
practically
a
thick oil.
Again we have obtained verification of our original findings
from the meanings of the words themselves. Mary, marrow,
oil (fat) and Virgo are all synonymous. Let us again recall
the statement of Jacob relative to the tribe of Asher, "His
BREAD shall be FAT."
In nature, quintessence allocates with ether, which has
a
owerful attraction for oil, its material counterpart
in
the
uman body. Thus combustion
is
caused. But
it
must be
remembered that oil varies
in
quality
in
each individual, just
as many grades of oil are found
in
the earth. As compared
with oil
in
other parts of the body, that
in
the spinal canal
is
the most refined. But
it
is
a
fact that even here
it
has
[181]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
not attained to the degree of purification which makes it of
the nature of the real Christos. This is not accomplished until
the chemical formula of the body is that of the perfect or
Christ-man. The Lamp in the cerebrum will not become
spiritually illuminated until the spinal oil is sufficiently refined.
This subject will be further considered in the second volume
of God-Man which will be published later.
What is OIL? Who has studied the subject sufficiently to
know? Several years ago I had the pleasure of seeing a col
lection of oil products assembled by the Hollywood High
School. There were refined as well as heavy lubricating oils;
all sorts of dyes, including special film colors; many forms
of medicines and many kinds of perfumes. Can one then
doubt my statement that all kinds of products may be obtained
from oil, since it is a perfect thing? Eventually it will be
so refined that the process will take it beyond the vision of
the naked eye.
OIL is a marvelous word, as will be noted if one stops to
think about it. It actually flows oilfully out of the mouth.
Enunciate it slowly and see.
In the Kabbalistic analysis of the word, we find that it totals
two, which allocates with the second letter of the Hebrew
alphabet or Beth. Here again we find additional corrobora
tion of our statement that Virgo is Bethlehem.
The letters of the word OIL, when interpreted from the
Tarot, are: O or Ayin which means eye, and is analogous
to the entrance of the Holy Spirit into matter its VISIBLE
manifestation. I (I, Y. and J are the same in Hebrew) means
the forefinger or hand of man, and symbolizes potential force.
I is also Vishnu, the Preserver. L is Lamed, and means an
ox goad or the arm. It typifies EXPANSIVE MOVE
MENT of a balanced nature.
Combining the above interpretations, we find that this three
or triune-lettered word means the visible manifestation of
energy. It is a material constituting a preserver, which is of
a BALANCED nature and capable of great expansive move
ment. It will be realized at once that this
is,
indeed, the
correct interpretation of oil.
It
is
the "Natura Naturata"
(that which follows or proceeds from the Divine Nature)
in
other words, the PRODUCT OF A PERFECT THING.
Oil
is
truly
a
fuel,
a
solvent,
a
lubricator and purifier for
man's body, as well as for machinery. Its value as
a
medicine
[182]
Virgo and Kali Sulph
was well known by the ancients. Its recognition as a
neutralizer of poison is proved by the following quotation
from The Odes of Horace:
"Like poison loathes oil."
It has recently been discovered that leprosy can be cured
by the use of a certain oil.
In old age, the human body is very low in oil, and hence
looks dry and shriveled. Skin, hair, intestinal tract and bones
all require their full quota of oil. The fluid of the lymphatic
glands (termed lymph), must have sufficient oil. When pres
ent, it gives this fluid a beautiful opalescent color.
It is said that the ocean contains enormous quantities of
Kali sulph or potassium sulphate in addition to the other three
combinations of this salt. Amber or ambergris, found in cer
tain parts of the ocean, is said to be a morbid excretion from
the alimentary canal of the sperm whale; but, as it is also
found fossil in alluvial soil, I venture to predict that it will
eventually prove to be a collection of thick oil, which has been
combined with certain other ingredients, and hardened. It is
highly electric.
Liebig stated many years ago that potassium is the essential
alkali of the animal body and this is true of the human body.
In combination with sulphur it forms oil or Kali sulph. It is
said that the bodies of sheep contain a huge quantity of this
salt, which may be the reason why mutton fat is supposed to
possess healing qualities. Sheep are said to excrete a very
great quantity of potassium in perspiration and one-third of
the weight of raw merino consists of potassium compounds.
Here again we have proof of the correct allocation of Kali
phos to Aries, the sheep sign, as well as to Virgo, the Virgin,
which creates the Lamb of God "Which taketh away the sins
of the world." As sin means deficiency, and also disease, the
statement is clear.
Lack of potassium or Kalium (as it is chemically known),
in ALL THREE COMBINATIONS causes VIRULENT
AND POISONOUS DISEASES. In particular do those
deficient in Kali sulph suffer from them. They are also
easily poisoned by tainted food. They should be extremely
careful relative to their diet.
As Kali sulph acts as a fuel, deficiency in it will cause a
person to feel suffocated, and he suffers greatly under certain
atmospheric conditions. As Pisces is the polar opposite of
[183]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Virgo, and allocates with Ferrum or iron, the above symptom
is usually aggravated when insufficient oxygen is obtained.
Combustion can not take place in the absence of air.
An infallible modality indicative of Kali sulph deficiency, is
a rise of temperature in the afternoon or early evening. Also
a desire for cold air. It also causes severe hot flashes. The
period in the life of a female termed the menopause, greatly
intensifies these flashes, and many suffer extremely from them.
Shifting pains constitute another modality.
Some of the many symptoms which manifest at various
times in those born in Virgo, Pisces, Gemini and Sagittarius
are: scaly and sticky dandruff; yellow or yellowish-green dis
charge of the eyes; inflammation of the conjunctiva; earache,
with sharp, cutting pain (this salt is a specific for this trouble
and especially for children; the ear should be carefully
syringed with this remedy every day) ; deafness from swelling
of the internal ear; catarrhal conditions of the head and
throat, acute or chronic, with discharge of slimy, yellow or
greenish matter (this salt should be given freely for colds, and
it generally assists in promoting perspiration); stuffy colds;
neuralgia of the face with shifting, intermittent pain, even
ing aggravation (worse in heated atmosphere, better in cool
air) ; cancer on nose, face, or on any part of the body (in
jections of Kali sulph and Ferrum should be given frequently
for intestinal, also vaginal and uterine cancer; Kali sulph
should also be applied whenever possible to reach the loca
tion). Other symptoms are: dread of hot drinks; thirstless-
ness; gastric fever; all abdominal troubles; typhoid or typhus
fever; cystitis; sexual disorders; bronchitis; cough which is
worse in the evening; pneumonia; whooping-cough; skin hot,
dry and harsh; rheumatic pains in joints of a shifting, wander
ing nature; rattling and gurgling of mucus in the chest;
fungoid inflammation of the joints; all sores which exude a
thin, yellow, watery matter; skin scaling freely on a sticky
base; eczema; blood poisoning; typhoid, and small-pox.
Naturally there are other symptoms, but they will be con
sidered in another work. Kali sulph should be given in all
children's diseases to aid in formation of new skin.
In closing this chapter it is fitting that some very remark
able points descriptive of this salt should be given.
Potassium sulphate was known as early as the fourteenth
century, we find, on consulting the Encyclopaedia Britannica,
M84]
Virgo and Kali Sulph
and in the seventeenth was named ARCANUM. As the
word ARCANUM is derived from the Latin noun area (a
box or chest) also from the verb arcere (to enclose) it signi
fies a SECRET OR MYSTERY, which adds still another
verification to our list of proofs. Webster's Dictionary fur
ther elucidates the latter by adding that it also refers to a
POWERFUL NATURAL AGENT, AN ELIXIR. It is
evident that no further proof is required.
The words arc and arch are both derived from this root,
which makes all the more interesting our previous reference
to the Royal Arch Degree of Freemasonry, as pertaining to
the solar plexus.
As the great pyramid of Gizeh was built on a line between
Upper and Lower Egypt it also allocates with the solar
plexus, the upper part being the visible pyramid and the lower
being its shadow. In Hebrew it means "darkness." The
initial sign of Upper Egypt was a bent reed, symbolical of
an arch. The solar plexus and bowels constitute a place of
darkness. This great nerve ganglia is indeed analogous to
an arch since it is a receiving and broadcasting station for
energy, and paralysis results when it ceases to function.
Kali sulph has another unique name, that of SAL DUPLI-
CATUM, which means the salt which increases or doubles.
Most interesting and illuminating is the explanation of this
term. This salt derived the name DUPLICATUM from the
fact that its beautiful crystals have the habit of a DOUBLE
SIX-SIDED PYRAMID, and really belong to the rhombic
system.
The form in which any salt crystallizes naturally depends
on its rate of vibration, and this must continue in order that
the shape may persist. Electrical experiments have proved
this to be true, as I have personally witnessed. Each stone
glows with its own individual light and color. Therefore to
crystallize in rhombic form, proves that the vibration of Kali
sulph moves in a circle "like a spinning top or magic wheel,"
as Webster states. This last statement is very appropriate,
since the solar plexus is indeed the MAGIC WHEEL OF
LIFE. Again, the fact that its crystals form a DOUBLE
SIX-SIDED PYRAMID gives additional verification, for
they total twelve, which allocates with the twelve divisions
of the solar plexus.
It is stated that among the rare and precious books which
[185]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
contain the mysteries of the GREAT ARCANUM, is one
entitled "The Chemical Pathway," by Paracelsus. It deals
with the mysteries of demonstrative physics and the most
secret Kabbala, and is said to be in the Vatican Library. It
is to be hoped that its treasures will soon be open to those
desirous of obtaining information.
Much more could be written on this subject, for proof upon
proof is available, but we will give the following from Sir
Thomas Vaughan's splendid work: "This is the SALT which
you ought to have in yourselves; this is that SEED which falls
to the ground and multiplies to an hundred fold." The Son
of the Virgin is that SEED, and the ground is the earth sign
Virgo, the cosmic and microcosmic earth.
It should be clear to the readers of this book that the
human body must possess sufficient Kali sulph to enable the
solar plexus to create its perfect double pyramids. Then
indeed will the darkness of Egypt flee away, and all sorrow,
sickness and death all the plagues of Egypt will disappear
forever.
"And ye shall serve the Lord your God, and he shall bless
thy bread and thy water, and / will take away sickness from
the midst of thee." Exodus 23 :25.
"I must become Queen Mary, and birth to God must give;
if I in blessedness for now and evermore would live."
Scheffler.
[186]
Chapter VII
THE ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF LIBRA
AND NATRIUM PHOS
"The Scales of Libra will hang obliquely until the
horns of the Ram are placed under them."
Compt de Gabelis.
XN
the preceding six chapters, the passing of the Sun
through the six northern signs has been described,
beginning with the Spring equinox. The Fall equi
nox has now been reached, when the Sun starts on its journey
south of the equator. At this time the days and nights are
everywhere equal, the same as at the Spring or vernal equi
nox. The Fall equinox begins approximately on September
twenty-second. It must be recalled that although the sign
begins in the last week of September, there are two weeks of
October included. Therefore it has much more to do with
the latter vibration.
The name Libra is Latin for pound. Pound is the unit of
weight for the scales. A pair of Scales is the glyph for this
sign. As October means eight and is the eighth month begin
ning with March, the Spring equinox, we must analyze this
number.
Eight is made up of 4 plus 4, or two squares, thus +
which constitute the two weights in the scale pans. The idea
underlying the analysis of this sign is that of balance equi
librium. In a cosmic sense it is analogous to the two halves
of the year. Physiologically it has to do with the kidneys,
adrenal glands and bladder, which constitute the last of the
vital organs and the first half or vital part of the body. The
seven months beginning with Aries constitute the vital months
of the year. There are no vital organs in the parts corres
ponding to the last five zodiacal signs.
As the well-being of the lower parts of the body depends
on the perfect functioning of the vital organs, so does in
volution depend on evolution, and vice versa. The forces of
Nature are now indrawing, after having been focused into
the matrix or womb of the earth Virgo.
[187]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
At this period of the year, vegetation begins to look lifeless
and unattractive, except to those who know what is taking
place. It is they who understand Nature in all her moods.
She is now beginning an entirely new work, gathering in her
forces. As autumn is the harvesting time, she is concentrating
them so that they may be ready to pour forth again in the
Spring.
Libra is the seventh sign, and the second of the air triplicity,
Gemini being the first and Aquarius the third. It is under
the rulership of Venus. The first decan is essentially under
this vibration, the middle decan under the combined vibrations
of Uranus and Saturn, while the last decan is subject to the
co-rulership of Mercury. Thus the faults or attributes of this
planet (Venus) are modified or intensified by the vibration
of the co-rulers.
It is very interesting to note that the last decan of Virgo
is under the co-rulership of Venus. The vibration of the
latter is affected, and we may venture to suggest becomes
more rapid, under the expansive power of the air. There are
thus two Venus vibrations joining the circle at this point, the
last ten degrees of Virgo and the first ten of Libra. This
is also true of the opposite side of the circle, with the ex
ception that Mars is the ruler under which the last decan of
Pisces vibrates, and it also rules the dominant first decan of
Aries.
As Mars means ENERGY and Venus has to do with
MATERIAL, their vibrations cross each other at these two
points in the circle, that of the two equinoxes. Energy, work
ing with material, closes the circle of the year and the cycle
of life at these two points.
In the Bible story, Mercury is Joseph. He had a coat of
many colors, which is apropos, since Mercury is mind. There
are endless shades of thought, and the mind is colored accord
ing to the chemical condition of the brain. When purified
and perfected, it is crystal clear. Indeed it is exactly like a
diamond, its myriad facets reflecting all the beautiful colors
of the rainbow.
Dr. Wakeman Ryno quotes the learned Dr. Bryant as say
ing: "The names of the gods Berith, in the singular number
BER, are still retained in conjunction with the Latin words
Septem, Octo, Novem, and Decern, in our Septem-Ber, Octo-
Ber, Novem-Ber and Decem-Ber. The gods Beth, Baal,
[188]
Libra and Natrium Phosphate
Berith, were taken from the ancient Tsabaism, or Star-
Worship. The two pans of the Balances or Scales were
known to the ancient Egyptians as the 'Two Truths.'
"
In the Scriptural story of Joseph, it will be recalled that
Potiphar's wife endeavored to persuade him to become in
terested in her, but "he fled out of the house leaving his gar
ment in her hand." As Mercury passed out of the house of
Virgo, it was through the Venus decan. Joseph or Mercury
(mind) was not tempted by carnality.
The sign Libra represents the seventh day on which the
Lord rested. A day constitutes a period of time as is ex
pressed in the words "Lincoln's day" or "Wilson's day," etc.
In Genesis (meaning generation, the forming of the child in
utero) we note that the Creator was busily engaged in the
work of forming the seven vital organs. When this was
accomplished, the Lord ceased from creating, for the organs
were thus co-ordinated, and, as seven parts of a machine, were
prepared to perform all the functions required of them.
The Sun, resurrected as the Lamb of God in Aries at the
Spring equinox , or Easter, after passing through the various
stages of growth and fecundity, now prepares to go down (in
the West) into the darkness and coldness of winter, for heat
is withdrawn into the earth.
The earth herself must regain her balance, which virtually
represents the beginning and the end of labor. Thus we have
Sunday, the seventh day, or day of REST.
The full Moon at this period of the year is of special im
portance, for its effect on wild life of the forest is very re
markable. It is said that under the influence of this harmoniz
ing or balancing Moon, animals that are natural enemies will
play together or pass by without conflict. They resume their
warfare when its influence wanes.
Venus (the ruler of Libra) was said by the ancients to
have arisen from the foam of the sea at the time of the
wounding of Uranus. As the latter is the ruler of the sign
of the Son of Man, it should be obvious what is meant by his
"wounding."
The etymology of the name Venus is charm, attractiveness,
and sensual love. So perverted is the human mind, that few
seem to realize that the linking of these two words is incon
gruous. Sensual affection is the correct expression. Affection
means "to affect" and has to do with feeling which is tem
[189]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
porary. It is not the real thing, but counterfeit. A line from
Shakespeare is an illustration: "Thou dost affect my
manners."
The mount of Venus is a physiological expression and refers
to the pubic bone above the genital organs. Venery is also
derived from the same root and means sexual intercourse.
The word vener is another derivative and means "to hunt or
chase." It will be easy to understand how applicable this
is,
for Greek mythology pictures Venus directing her son Cupid
in
aiming his "love" darts.
In the old days venison was meat obtained by hunting, but
in
modern times has come to mean that of deer. We may not
want to acknowledge
it,
but
it
is
nevertheless
a
fact that the
great "hunt"
is
constantly going on. And while some may
wish to think that the female
is
the sole object, such
is
not
the case. The female seeks the male and will continue to
do so until accumulated experience with all types eventually
proves that mental and physical BALANCE will never be
attained by this means. Aries, the cerebrum, the Place of the
Most High,
is
opposite Libra.
It
is
indeed true that the darts
of Cupid wound Psyche, which
is
another name for Isis,
or Mary. The soul, or creative fluid,
is
derived from the
pituitary gland ruled by the Moon, by Venus, or Neptune,
according to one's stage of evolution. Intimacy with Venus
truly "steals the wits, even of the wise."
It
is
a
fact well-known by physicians
in
general that seven of
every ten cases of insanity are due to sexual excesses. Aries
and Libra are the positive and negative ends of one pole, and
their positions
in
the zodiac are established for the above
reason. When the cerebrum
is
at last perfected, mental
BALANCE will result.
Cupid means desire, and cupidity
is
derived from the same
root.
It
means longing or covetousness. The arrows of
Cupid never fail to produce wounds.
There
is
little difference,
if
any,
in
the modern understand
ing of Cupid and Eros. But my researches have uncovered
a
decided and most amazing difference, which will be fully
explained in The Truth About Sex and Birth Control.
It
will
be sufficient to state here that Cupid
is
negative and destruc
tive, while Eros has to do with the positive and constructive
phase of creation.
Many of the operas embody the story of the struggle with,
[190]
Libra and Natrium Phosphate
and the victory over carnality. In Tannhauser, Wagner's
wonderful creation, we find the theme dealing with a cave in
Venusberg (the mountain of Venus) wherein the goddess of
"love" held her court, enticing persons into it by means of
music, revelry and sensuous pleasures, and endeavoring to
keep them from ever returning to the light of day.
It will be realized from the evidence herein given that it
is erroneous to interpret the planet Venus as that of love.
It is true, however, that the hypnotism of the common inter
pretation will remain for some time yet. It will only be dis
sipated when each and every astrologer gives the correct
rendering of Venus.
The seductive form and the beauty and fascination of those
born under this planet, inevitably lead to severe tests of their
moral equilibrium. But when the vibration of Venus is raised
and is no longer that of Mary Magdalene, she is Neptune,
ruler of the waters. Pisces, the home of Neptune, the last
sign of the zodiac, is the house of UNDERSTANDING or
LOVE, since it is the completion of the process.
Venus ever tends to lead one into excesses. She despoils
robs a thing which LOVE could never do. The following
lines taken from Classic Myths perfectly express the nature
of Venus:
"Just a soft hint of singing, to beguile a man from his toil ;
Some vanished gleam of beckoning arm, to spoil
A morning's task with longing, wild and vain.
Then if across the parching plain
He seek her, she with passion burns
His heart to fever, and he hears ,
The west wind's mocking laughter when he turns,
Shivering in mist of ocean's sullen tears.
It is the Medicean: well I know
The arts her ancient subtlety will show,
The stubble field she turns to ruddy gold;
The empty distance she will fold
In purple gauze; the warm glow she has kissed
Along the chilling mist;
Cheating and cheated love that grows to hate
And even deeper loathing, soon or late."
But the poet goes on to sing of the purified Venus:
"Thou, too, O Fairer spirit, walkest here
Upon the lifted hills:
Whenever that still thought within the breast
The inner beauty of the world hath moved ;
In starlight that the dome of evening fills;
Or endless waters rounding to the west:
For them who thro' that beauty's veil have loved
The soul of all things beautiful and best."
[191]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
He ends by voicing a prayer for deliverance from the
temptress :
"Oh, save me from the haste and noise and heat
That spoils life's music sweet:
And from that lesser Aphrodite there
Even now she stands
Close as I turn, and O my soul, how fair!"
Venus was also termed Lucifer by the ancients, and in
Smith's Bible Dictionary we find the following relative to
this subject: "Lucifer literally means LIGHT-BRINGING.
The name
is,
in
Isaiah 14:12, coupled with the epithet 'son of
the morning,' and clearly means
a
bright star, and probably
what we call the morning star. In this passage
it
is
a
symbolical representation of the king of Babylon,
in
his
splendor and in his fall. Its application (from St. Jerome
downward) to SATAN
in
his fall from heaven, arises
probably from the fact that the Babylonian empire
is
in
Scriptures represented as the type of tyrannical and self-
idolizing power, and especially connected with the empire of
the Evil One
in
the Apocalypse."
The name Babylon
is
derived from the same root as Babel
(confusion) which means THE GATE OF THE GOD IL.
As Libra
is
significant of the Fall equinox,
it
is
one of the
four gates of God,
in
other words the two equinoxes and the
two solstices. Important changes occur
in
Nature at these
periods, and
in
the body of man are concerned with the most
important organs.
In astrological lore, the Sun
is
said to be
in
its fall when
transiting Libra.
The first and last verses
in
the quotation from Isaiah,
furnish us with
a
good word-picture which allocates perfectly
with our own analysis of Venus.
"How art thou fallen from heaven,
O
Lucifer, son of the
morning! how art thou cut down to the ground, which did
weaken the nations.
"Yet thou shall be brought down to hell, to the sides of
the pit."
It
is
further explained, as the reader of the entire passage
will find, that Lucifer sought to displace the Most High. This
is
literally and physiologically true. Procreation robs the
brain and the body of the corpuscles which have been expended
in
the sexual act. When these corpuscles are THROWN
[192]
Libra and Natrium Phosphate
AWAY in creating pleasurable sensation, the sexual act be
comes THE SIN AGAINST THE HOLY GHOST.
Venus must regain her balance, and her work as ruler of
Libra is to accomplish this task.
What this means, physiologically and anatomically, must
now be explained. Students who are familiar with the ex
pression "THE RING-PASS-NOT" have not known to what
it really referred. With the exception, perhaps, of one writer
(Madam Blavatsky), the consideration of this subject has
been for the most part erroneous. At best it is very incom
plete and hence unilluminating. When the ANATOMICAL
RING IN THE HUMAN BODY IS THOROUGHLY
UNDERSTOOD, THEN ONLY WILL THIS AMAZ
ING EXPRESSION BECOME CLEAR.
First, let us review the fact that from time immemorial
astrology has allocated Libra with the kidneys, but further
research will eventually prove that the bladder and adrenal
glands also come under this sign. My own experience with
many charts and in connection with astro-biochemistry, has
proved this to be a fact.
The old or archaic name for the kidneys is "reins." Again
repeating my favorite expression "study words," let us con
sider this ancient term, and see what light it will throw on the
subject matter.
Webster's Dictionary informs us that the word is derived
from the Latin retinere and means TO HOLD BACK. It
also refers to the strap of a bridle, fastened to the curb or
snaffle on each side, by which the rider or driver governs (con
trols) a horse or other animal. We can repeat the last three
words with profit and understanding, I trust "or other
animal." Mankind is that other animal, else the task of
becoming balanced would not exist.
Other meanings are: to govern, control, hold in check,
restrain, to rule, to guide. In the Latin lexicon we find the
direct translation, which gives us an even better rendering:
TO HOLD FAST, TO KEEP BACK, TO DETAIN, to
retain a conquest.
Allocating these interpretations with our previous analysis
of Venus and Libra we find that they link up perfectly, and
further illuminate our subject.
To become balanced, mentally and physically, the passions
must be held in check (LEO the LION) in order that the
cerebral esse, MARY (VIRGO), will not GO DOWN TO
[193]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
ITS FALL (SUN IS IN ITS FALL IN LIBRA). They
must be REINED IN, held in leash. If the pull on either
rein is the same, then the horse is kept in the middle (balance)
of the road. It should be realized by now, that not without
definite reason have names been given to objects or things,
animate or inanimate.
Let it again be stated, that AS LONG AS ONE COR
PUSCLE OF THE HUMAN BODY LOSES ITS LIFE,
THE BODY IS UNBALANCED. BALANCE IS ONLY
ULTIMATELY ATTAINED by the presence IN THE
BODY OF EACH AND EVERY CORPUSCLE RE
QUIRED TO FORM A NUMERICALLY PERFECT
BODY.
The term reins is applicable to this part of the human body
from an architectural point of view, as the following refer
ence, obtained from Webster, bears testimony: "Reins: The
parts between the crown and the spring or abutment, including
the loading or filling behind the vault shell analogous to the
HAUNCHES OF AN ARCH."
It is not difficult to check up on facts, for what is true in
ONE art, is true in ALL. Man's body is a piece of archi
tecture, and therefore terms used in this profession apply
equally to the human dwelling. Man's body is also a PIECE
OF REAL ESTATE, for it consists of the same earthly
elements. But in most instances it is a pretty poor piece of
real estate, for it possesses very little value it is chemically
very much depleted.
To the degree in which a person is chemically deficient, is
he mentally and physically unbalanced. Therefore, as the
mineral elements are restored to the blood and the laws of
right living followed so that no surplus waste or indeed any
waste accumulates, the left pan of the scale slowly rises until
it eventually balances with the RIGHT.
It is interesting to find that the left pan of the scale of
Libra, which covers the first fifteen degrees of the sign, in
cludes the vibrations of Scorpio, Sagittarius, Capricorn,
Aquarius and Pisces, the last six signs of the zodiac. It will
be realized, therefore, when the reader has studied the last
six chapters of this work, that the signs they represent, and
the work they cover, is indeed THE GREAT WORK, and
must be completed BEFORE THE CIRCLE OF LIFE
CAN BE ETERNALLY CEMENTED TOGETHER.
[1941
Libra and Natrium Phosphate
Thus the left scale pan represents the first fifteen degrees
of Libra and the last six signs, while the right scale pan covers
the last fifteen degrees and the first six signs.
As the result of research work, I have discovered and
proved that the first fifteen degrees of any sign pertain to
the left side and to the middle line of the body, while the last
fifteen degrees extend from the middle of the body to the
right side. The use of the NATURAL ZODIAC (no
degrees of Aries rising), will enable the student to study and
understand the human body as well as the mentality, without
confusion. It is necessary to emphasize this point. Thus the
left kidney must be studied from the first half of the sign, and
the right kidney and bladder from the last half.
Therefore, when the Scorpion no longer stings, but becomes
instead the WHITE EAGLE, soaring aloft to the heights
(Aries, the cerebrum the Most High), the Higher Mind
(Sagittarius, the Archer) will begin to function at last, and
will direct (aim his arrow) man to the heights. He will
thus become the INITIATE (Capricorn) will start out on
the path of return will travel the road which the Higher
Mind (Sagittarius-Arrow) points out. It becomes possible
then, and then only, to arrive at a certain stage of that journey
which coincides with that .of our brother, the Freemason.
When he has reached the thirteenth DEGREE, he is no
longer UNLUCKY. He is then able to create his own pay,
and becomes both payer and payee. Thus the NEW MAN,
JESUS, is formed within him; he becomes the true Aquarian,
ruled by Uranus, the Ancient of Days. The last sign Pisces
is the completion of the task. BALANCE (PERFECTION)
HAS AT LAST BEEN ATTAINED. A solid-rock founda
tion has been built.
Webster's Dictionary states that the word kidney is of un
certain origin, but that the last two letters, "ey" may have
been derived from the Middle English word eyren, meaning
This may check with the shape of this organ, but I believe
that it really has the same source as the word KIDDLE which
comes from Keutel, a Greek term. It means a NET. The
word Kidnap means to SEIZE AND DETAIN, which syn
thesizes with the word NET, (used to gather in anything).
This seems to be a satisfactory analysis of the word,
especially when employed in an anatomical sense, for it is true
[195]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
that the kidneys consist of a mass of tubules (small tubes or
pipes). In other words, they constitute a net-work which
collects and then discharges the secretion (the urine) into
the main cavity of the kidneys. From thence, it is conveyed
through the long tube or ureter to the bladder, from whence
it is discharged. The analogy of net is indeed a correct one,
as applied to this organ. It is really a filter.
The kidneys are situated in the middle portion of the body;
and, when the astrological decans are allocated with the verte
brae, one finds that they are the sixteenth, seventeenth, and
eighteenth; also, that when the vertebrae are numbered, begin
ning with one at the top and ending with the thirty-third, the
seventeenth will be found to be the middle point of the spine.
This number (17) falls exactly over the middle decan, and
hence over the BALANCE POINT of the scales of Libra.
As 17 totals 8, this checks with the two squares or weights
in the scale pans.
Another fact of a very interesting and even startling char
acter
is,
that before the glands testes of the infant descend
into the scrotum, they are
in
alignment with the kidneys.
THEY ARE SITUATED EXACTLY AT THE POINT
OF BALANCE.
It
is
obvious to the earnest student of the
mysteries of life, that THEY WOULD NOT DESCEND
(GO DOWN) BELOW THE BALANCE POINT (IN
OTHER WORDS BELOW THE ABDOMINAL RING)
IF THE INFANT HAD DIVORCED HIMSELF FROM
CARNALITY IN HIS PREVIOUS INCARNATION.
I
do not fear that this statement can ever be disproved.
It
is
evident to all, of course, that humanity has not reached
the stage where this can be accomplished. Nevertheless there
are many who have entered the first degrees of preparation
for
it,
as the writer can personally testify. Satiation, and the
inevitable physiological reaction, have already begun.
It
is
a
fact that the brain cells automatically rebel when subject to
sights and sounds which are detrimental and destructive
in
nature, and
it
is
this which produces the feeling of boredom.
There
is
no longer any "kick"
in
them.
Students of astrology know that Neptune was transiting
Leo for fourteen years, up to the time
it
entered Virgo,
in
October of 1928. As this planet has the highest rate of
cosmic vibration, and represents the Christ Spirit or Con
sciousness, also the MOTHER of Christ (material),
it
is
Libra and Natrium Phosphate
analogous to purification. While Neptune was in Leo for
fourteen years, the Powers That Be (Cosmic) endeavored to
change and purify all that pertained to that sign. Recall the
fact that the old name for Leo, the Sun's house, was Sextilis,
and the cause of the dropping of the bars between male and
female, which has been general and of such a noticeable char
acter will be understood. It was a test for all. Many ended
in becoming wrecks. Some passed out of this phase of life,
while others realized what it was all about, and pulled them
selves up and out of the abyss. Some few stood the test, and
came out with flying colors, simply because the lesson had been
learned at some other time when a past test had been made.
Now, Neptune is in Virgo, the House of the Virgin (purity),
and it will be interesting to watch what will occur.
Gray's Anatomy states that the nerves of the kidneys con
nect directly with those of the spermatic plexus. In the female,
this must be true of the ovaries. This is given as the reason
why pain is often felt in these parts of the body, in connection
with kidney trouble. The above statement also checks with
the arrangement of the zodiacal signs, for Libra joins Scorpio,
the testes and ovaries being located in the first section of
this sign.
It is curious, but true, that the kidneys, bladder and other
pelvic organs of an infant, are in a much higher position,
relatively, than those of the adult. Even the internal urethral
orifice sinks rapidly during the first three years, then more
slowly until the ninth year, after which it remains stationary
until puberty, when it again slowly descends until it reaches its
adult position. It is therefore true that the organs below the
median line (Libra, the Balance) have a natural tendency
to drop, to go below the positions which would be natural if
the body (and hence all the organs) were in a higher state
of development. This is exactly analogous to the Sun
(energy) going down in the West.
It is true that both male and female sometimes suffer from a
prolapsed condition of most of the pelvic organs. Indeed the
flesh of the entire body frequently looks prolapsed. While
in this condition it looks flabby as though the flesh were
hanging from it. It is not held firmly against the frame, nor
does it appear to be solid and healthy.
It is a fact known to students of anatomy, that the ovaries
of the female are in alignment with the kidneys until concep
[197]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
tion takes place. In the light of the information previously
given, it is logical to assume that a slight prolapse would
begin with puberty.
In the allocation of the number 8 with numerology, we find
that Papus' work on The Tarot states that 8 EXPRESSES
EQUILIBRIUM IN ALL ITS FORMS. Every student
should possess a copy of this book. On page 138 will be
found the card illustrative of the symbology of this number.
Papus describes it as follows: "A woman, seen full face, and
wearing an iron coronet, is seated upon a throne. She is
placed between the two columns of the temple. The solar
cross is traced upon her breast. She holds a sword, point
upwards, in her right hand, and a BALANCE (scales) in
her left."
The woman is Venus or material. The sword held in the
RIGHT hand and pointed upward, is symbolical of the
straight and narrow way above; her position between the two
columns of the temple signifies her importance in respect to
the attainment of equilibrium. Without material, nothing
can be created or accomplished. The solar cross on her
breast refers to the association with the cardinal or creative
cross of the year. The final proof of this figure's relation
to Libra is the fact that the Scale is held in her left hand,
significant of the GREAT WORK. Material must be ALL
utilized constructively, none wasted. It fulfills the func
tion of Eve, the Mother of all creation, but eventually
becomes THE PRESERVER OF GOD, THE SON IN
HUMANITY.
We thus find Venus eventually responding to the lofty
etheric vibration of the air sign Libra, when a new name,
that of Neptune, becomes hers by right of attainment. "And
I will write upon his forehead A NEW NAME."
Madam Blavatsky says, in the Secret Doctrine, "Venus is
symbolized by the sign of a globe over the cross, which shows
that it presides over the natural generation of man.
"The Egyptians symbolized Ankh (life) by the ansated
cross, which is only another form of Venus (Isis) and meant,
esoterically, that mankind and all animal life had stepped out
of the divine spiritual circle and fallen into physical male and
female generation."
She also informs us that "Venus equally with Isis was
represented with cow's horns on her head, the symbol of
[198]
Libra and Natrium Phosphate
mystic Nature and one that is convertible with and significant
of the Moon, since all these were Lunar goddesses, the con
figuration of this planet is now placed by theologians between
the horns of the mystic Lucifer."
Venus, Isis and Eve are identical with Aditi and Vach in
Hindu literature. They are all "Mothers of all living."
The fact that Libra is ruled by Venus, and constitutes the
SIGN OF BALANCE OR HARMONY, should cause the
reader to spend much time in consideration of the deeply im
portant secret concealed in these two words Libra and Venus.
Indeed is Venus Lucifer, the Light Bearer, the LIGHT OF
LIFE, but it also is THE EXTINGUISHER OF THAT
LIGHT. Opposite Aries, the place of light, it is in very
truth the adversary.
Mary, in the House of the Lord, is stolen away from it by
Mary Magdalene Venus. It becomes a pillaged place
wherein the Lord finds insufficient for His needs. In other
words, the mind becomes literally UNBALANCED. Light
the light of reason and intelligence to say nothing of intui
tion, will be restored to humanity (recreated therein) WHEN
SEXUAL INDULGENCE CEASES. All are therefore
unbalanced and in varying degrees.
The stars in the constellation of Libra were named
JUGUM, the yoke or beam of the balance. No doubt it was
from this ancient Latin term, which means TO BIND TO
GETHER OR CONNECT, that the idea of marriage and
partnership was associated with this sign.
Here indeed is where perversion arose. Everything
pertaining to the twelve zodiacal signs refers to THE
ANATOMY OF THE GRAND MAN (THE UNI
VERSE) AND HENCE, BY ANALOGY, TO THE
BODY OF MAN.
THE PURPOSE OF THE STUDY OF ASTROLOGY,
THEN, IS TO CONSIDER THE BODY OF THE UNI
VERSE AND THE BODY OF MAN.
There never can be permanent marriage between male and
female, which is obvious, since death inevitably separates.
Earthly marriage is a man-made law which concerns the
sexual life. It is true, also, that a man is not obliged to sup
port his wife if she refuses this life.
Spiritual marriage, on the other hand, is the coming
together, the BALANCING OF THE FORCES AND
[199]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
ORGANS IN EACH INDIVIDUAL HUMAN BODY,
and more especially the union of the pineal and pituitary
glands in the head, which are respectively male and female
sexual glands.
Because India, whose literature teems with the description
of this heavenly marriage, has utterly lost sight of its divinely
spiritual interpretation, her people (for the most part) have
become weak, enervated and mentally degenerate.
They have forgotten, if indeed they ever knew, that the
cube has six sides, and that there is a trinity of divine creative
sexual organs in the head as well as in the PROcreative organs
in the torso. "As above, so below" is physiologically true.
It is not India alone, however, that is dominated by the
sex life. It is true of all nations and peoples. That country,
however, has made the mistake (because of the complete per
version of understanding and interpretation of her own secret
and sacred literature) of thinking that the procreative act was
referred to in these writings as a RELIGIOUS AND
HENCE MOST SACRED RITE. Naturally, the inter
preters of these ancient writings have further imbued the
people with this idea, because their own mentality has always
been colored by sexuality. No work on India has brought
out this point.
Sex and money, money and sexl These constitute the two
chief subjects in the minds of the great majority. It is indeed
true that it is impossible to live without money, as long as
the commercial and industrial plan of life is what it is today.
But the idea back of it all is the RIGHT USE OF A
THING. If the subject of money in relation to sex is
analyzed, it will be found that, for the most part, money is
desired in order to live the sex life. We may not WANT
this to be true, but nevertheless close observation will result
in an honest admission that it is so. The young man seeks
to earn money in order to marry; young women desire money
with which to purchase attractive garments.
True money, the coin of the realm (heavenly treasure) is
BRAIN POWER, which is CREATIVE. The pure and
legitimate ORIGIN of our BANKING SYSTEM may be
found in the human brain. This is the money we are told
not to squander. "LAY UP for yourselves treasures in
heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt and where
thieves do not break through nor steal."
[200]
Libra and Natrium Phosphate
If brain esse, from which and by means of which mental
power and physical strength are generated, is conserved (used
wisely and hence constructively), treasure actual money is
laid up in the heavenly bank. This INCREASES, for the
QUALITY of both energy and substance actually improves
with each and every conservation. Thus interest is created
which eventually doubles and trebles itself. There is much
in Scriptural writings to prove this; for instance, the story of
the talents. There are numerous references relative to the
INCREASE resulting within a specified time from laying up
the first fruits in the temple.
No matter how many errors in translation have resulted
from the lack of knowledge of translators, there is a vast
fund of information of a reliable and scientific nature to be
found in the Scriptures.
The derivation of the word MONEY is very interest
ing. It comes from the Latin verb moneo, which means to
warn, to teach, to admonish. The Latin lexicon states that
this is traced directly to the noun MEN OR MENS which
means MIND. My statement that true money is brain power
and cerebral esse is therefore verified.
The Latin lexicon states that MONETA (derived from
moneo), the name of the mother of Moses (goddess of learn
ing or of the fine arts meaning material or substance used
in creative thinking), was also a surname of Juno; and, as the
Roman money was coined in the temple of Juno Moneta, the
temple became known as Moneta, or a mint.
The word coin in Latin is NUMMUS, and has the same
meaning as NUMERUS or NUMBER. The comparison
is obvious.
Webster's Dictionary informs us that the word COIN is
also derived from the Latin word CUNEUS, which means
a WEDGE, PEG or SHAFT hence ARROW. A wedge
is a triangular-shaped figure. Therefore we again add to our
list of verifications, since sagitta, or the arrow, is the symbol
of the sign Sagittarius, which relates to MIND. Is it strange,
then, that the first characters used to express thought were
cuneiform, or ARROW-SHAPED? It
is,
in
very truth, the
explanation why the Magi, of times remote, chose the arrow
as the symbol of the Higher Mental sign. This will be fur
ther considered under Sagittarius.
The triangle, or arrow-head,
is
also the symbol of FIRE,
[201]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
and Sagittarius is the third sign of the fire triplicity. There
are several other words which serve to bring out interesting
and illuminating facts relative to this subject matter, and we
must not pass them by.
Coin, which also means WEDGE,
is,
in
addition,
a
SPIKE.
It
is because of this meaning that the star
in
the wheat spike
held in the hand of the Virgin, was named Spica. Spica repre
sents the BREAD OF LIFE. The brain substance
is
the
BREAD OF LIFE. Mind functions through the brain.
A SPIKE is used as
a
fastener to HOLD TOGETHER.
(Silicea, the Sagittarian salt, actually performs this chemical
duty
in
man's body and
in
nature.)
It
also marks
a
limit or point
of
attainment. All of this pertains intimately
to Sagittarius. Metaphysically,
a
PEG
is
a
support or
REASON. The sentence "a peg to hang
a
claim on"
is
illustrative.
Carrying this fascinating word-study still further, we find
that the feminine name PEG, is
a
diminutive of Margaret,
which means PEARL. In mineralogy, margarite
is
a
SILICATE, from which substance and Calcium
a
pearl
is
formed. Silicea and Calcium work together, the same as
in
the building of concrete.
A
margarita
is
also
a
vessel
in
which the consecrated Host
is
preserved.
A mint
is
a
place where anything
is
manufactured or
fabricated, but
in
modern time has come to refer especially
to the coining of money.
It
is
also termed menta, which
means mind
Pecunia
is
also
a
Latin term for money and
is
the root of
the word pecuniary. In ancient times its basic meaning was
PROPERTY, and the word proper
is
a
derivative.
It
refers
to that which
is
TRUE OR REAL, as
in
opposition to that
which
is
false and unreal. Therefore the expression, PER
SONAL PROPERTY, originally meant THE POSSES
SIONS OF THE HUMAN BODY. The correct interpreta
tion of person (from the Latin)
is
a
personality or mask worn
by an individual, e. g., MANKIND, AS HE APPEARS
TO BE.
Pecus
is
also derived from the same root as pecunia, and
means flocks or heads. In ancient times flocks constituted
the principal property of the tribes. And again we recall
that flocks usually refer to sheep, which
is
the symbol of
Aries, the HEAD OF MAN. Brain power
is
its chief asset.
[202]
Libra and Natrium Phosphate
Some of our well-known authors have made use of the
word mint in sentences which further elucidate its meaning.
"But thou and I are one in kind,
As molded like in nature's MINT."
Shakespeare.
"Stamped in clay, a heavenly MINTAGE."
Sterling.
Again, the word cattle is Middle English for catel, or chatel,
from which our modern expression chattel is derived, and
which means property, or CAPITAL. The latter word is
derived from the same root as CAPUT which means THE
HEAD. And, curiously enough, the word CHAT, besides
meaning light talk, also means a SPIKE or twig.
The many years spent in research work for the writing
of this book will not have been in vain, if the readers have
been convinced of the importance of WORD STUDY.
The poet Milton must have been aware of the reason why
Libra, the sign of the Balance, is placed between Virgo and
Scorpio, for he says:
"Th" Eternal, to prevent such horrid fray,
Hung forth in heav'n his golden scales, yet seen
Betwixl Astrea and the Scorpion sign."
And Homer's words also prove this true of him:
"Th' Eternal Father hung
His golden scales aloft."
Richard Allen, in Star Names and Their Meanings, tells
us that "Addison devoted the 100th number of the TATLER
that of the twenty-ninth of November, 1709 to 'that sign
in the heavens which is called by the name of the Balance,'
and to his dream thereof in which he saw the Goddess of
Justice descending from the constellation to regulate the
affairs of men; the whole very beautiful rendering of the
ancient thought connecting the Virgin Astraea with Libra. He
may have been inspired by recollections of his student days
at Oxford, where he must often have seen this sign, as a
Judge in full robes, sculptured on the front of Merton
College."
"In the early solar zodiac of China, Libra is the Crocodile
or Dragon, its national emblem. The Persian sphere shows
a human figure lifting the Scales in one hand and grasping
a lamb in the other, this being the usual form of a weight
for a balance in the early East," says Richard Allen. It would
[203]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
be impossible to find a better presentation or picturization of
the immortal story, the PLAN FOR MAN. Aries the Lamb,
and Libra the Scales are polar opposites. IF THE LAMB
IS NOT SLAIN, EQUILIBRIUM RESULTS.
The symbols and planispheres setting forth this information
have always existed. How blind we have been !
Mr. Allen also states that "the symbol of Libra was
stamped on the coins of Palmyra, as also on those of Pyth-
doris." If, as many astronomers emphatically state (strange
ly enough), the signs of the zodiac play no particular part in
nature, and have no effect on mankind, why is it that we
contact them in so many ways? Why is it that these old plan
ispheres exist? And again, why do we find zodiacs beauti
fully inlaid in the floors of many State and Municipal build
ings? The answer is that they conceal in their symbols, in
valuable information for humanity, and the minds of those
having charge of the construction of these buildings respond
to the archetypal forms which the Cosmic Mind impresses
upon their brain cells. Through this means, these symbols
are kept before the eyes of humanity until they are at last
impressed to study out what they mean.
The stars in the constellation of Libra form a circular
mound, which, in Euphratean lore, is termed THE ALTAR;
it is also Tul Ku, the Holy Mound. Sometimes it is called
a Censer and at other times a Lamp. Strassmaier confirms
this in his translation of an inscription, as die Lampe ah Nuru,
or the Solar Lamp. When these stars, termed the Euphratean
SUGI or Chariot Yoke, were clearly seen in the heavens, the
ancient Chaldeans considered the season to be auspicious for
crops.
Mr. Allen informs us that "In classical lore the whole
constituted the ancient House of Venus, for, according to
Macrobius, this planet appeared at the Creation; and, more
over, the goddess bound together human couples under the
yoke of matrimony. From this came the title Veneris Sidus,
although others asserted that Mars was its guardian. Caesius
identifies it with the Balance of the Book of Daniel (5:7),
in which Belshazzar had been weighed and 'found wanting.'
"
A star above the beam of the Balance is of very unique
coloring, pale emerald, a color which is almost unknown in
the annals of star lore. However, this checks accurately with
my allocation of the spectrum to the zodiac, for deep green
[204]
Libra and Natrium Phosphate
falls on Libra. As Aries is a living red (cerise or magenta),
green would be the correct color for its complement. All that
is necessary to do in allocating color with the signs is to bend
the spectrum over them.
In G. A. Gaskell's Dictionary we find many interesting
statements relative to this sign: "A symbol of the seventh
period of the cycle of life, which is the first period of evo
lution on the astral plane. The first point of Libra represents
the balance between involution and evolution, and the com
mencement of the evolution from homogeneity to hetero
geneity of the many forms and qualities."
Mr. Gaskell quotes Swedenborg as saying that "The
Celestial Man is the 'seventh day'; all combat then ceaseth
and it is sanctified. Every regenerate person is a 'sabbath,'
Mr. Gaskell writes most sympathetically of Libra as one
of the equinoctial signs: It is a symbol of a point of balance
and change reached in the soul's development (sun's course),
when a line, as it were, is crossed and a new soul-process is
entered upon. The process of Involution is commenced when
the Logos (sun) manifests on the upper buddhic plane, at
the point symbolized by the first point of Aries; and, after
the completion of the process in Virgo, the first point of Libra
signifies the commencement of the new process of Evolution
in which humanity is now taking part. The Zodiac is a sym
bol of the Great Cycle of Life. As the sun (Logos) passes
through the six northern signs, the process of Involution of
the qualities is accomplished; and, as it passes through the
six southern signs, so Evolution will be completed, and the
qualities and souls returned to God who emanated them."
Spirit and matter are equilibrized when the soul is fully
purified, and when, at last, Spirit has a sufficient quantity of
the finest (super-microscopic) particles with which to complete
the Spiritual body. Spirit is the finest of matter; matter is
the coarsest Spirit.
Empedocles says: "At one time all the limbs which form
the human body united into one by Love, grow vigorously
in the prime of life; but yet at another time, separated by
evil Strife, they wander each in different directions along the
breakers of the sea of life." This means that the chemical
deficiencies of the blood cause the organs (limbs) to become
when he becomes
Lord."
because he is a likeness of the
[205]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
diseased and hence they no longer co-ordinate work to
gether.
"Malkhuth represents the Sabbath or seventh day, the close
of the construction or building of the universe, the Rest Day,
or harmony of all." I. Myer, Kabbala, (p. 272). This is
also analogous to the formation of the child in utero.
Kingsford and Maitland use modern electrical terms to
enlighten us still further: "This 'resting' (on the seventh
day) which is not annihilation but repose involves the
return of Matter (from its dynamic) to its static condition
of Substance. The idea represented is that of the cessation
of active-creative force, and the consequent return of phenom
enal existence into essential being. It is at once the 'rest
which remains for the people of God' ; the attainment of per
fection by the individual, system or race; and the return of
the universe into the bosom of God, by re-absorption into the
original substance."
There is much information in the above statement, and
much study should be given to the last sentence, "Re-absorp
tion into the original substance;" for this is exactly what
takes place in the human body. Not only does Nature instant
ly begin to utilize the physical materials she has created and
built up into a physical vehicle, in sustaining and keeping life
within
it,
but she
is
also constantly striving to purify these
materials, step them up, as
it
were, and reconvert them into
the original esse or cerebral substance. Inversely, she again
steps them down to form more solid or material parts.
We are now ready to consider the salt which Dr. Carey
allocated with this sign, namely Natrium phos or sodium
phosphate.
It
was not difficult for him to decide that
it
was
a
BALANCING salt, since
it
is
chemically known to
NEUTRALIZE ACID. Therefore
it
is
correctly assigned
to the sign of the Scales. Its great function
is
to change acid
to alkali. This will be considered later on.
It
is
interesting to trace the word Natrium phos or sodium.
The Latin lexicon gives
it
as Natrum or Natron, the latter
spelling being used
in
Egyptian writings.
It
is
remarkable
how much information
is
obtainable from its Latin derivatives.
First we must recall the fact that Venus
is
the ruling planet
(rate of vibration) of Libra. By this we must understand
that THE CHEMICAL ELEMENT ALLOCATING
WITH THIS SIGN MUST BE ABLE TO PRODUCE
[206]
Libra and Natrium Phosphate
THIS VENUS VIBRATION. Therefore VENUS REAL
LY STANDS FOR NATRIUM OR SODIUM. It must
also be recalled that Natrium sulph is the Taurus salt, which
sign is also ruled by Venus.
Review the fact that Venus was called Lucifer, the
BRIGHT star of the morning. This statement is now veri
fied by the interpretation of the root verb to which Natron
is traced, namely "niteo," which means bright, shining, glitter
ing, splendid; also handsome, trim, elegant. The latter
definitions serve to make clear why the ancients applied these
characteristics to Libra.
Nitor means to REST, to support oneself upon anything,
to give birth to, to climb, to ascend, push up towards a height.
Here we note the idea of balance running like a thread
through all of these interpretations. One must have reached
the heights in order to rest or to attain equilibrium. One who
has thus attained, becomes a beacon star to show the way to
other travelers on life's road. In other words, he is a shining
light.
Tracing the English word sodium, we have sodalis, which
means associate, or sharer. This again gives us the idea of
partnership or marriage, which students of astrology associate
with Libra. Again, the word sod, which literally means
green, (since sod is grass) is the root of sodium. This ex
plains why the color green is associated with Libra. It will
be noted in the color chart that this section of the bent spec
trum falls over this sign.
The opal seems to be correctly assigned to Libra. George
Kunz states, in his Curious Lore of Precious Stones, that Plinii
says of opals: "There is in them a softer fire than in the
carbuncle ; there is the brilliant purple of the amethyst ; there
is the sea-green of the emerald all shining together in
incredible union. Some of their refulgent splendor rivals the
colors of the painter, others the flame of burning sulphur or
of fire quickened by oil."
The word sodden means to be soaked or softened with
water, to be saturated. It is also interpreted to mean bloated,
parboiled, heavy or dull-witted, mentally unbalanced.
The above analysis of the words Natrium and sodium
indubitably proves the correctness of its allocation with the
zodiacal sign Libra.
Referring to the points given above, relative to the words
[207]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
sodden and bloated, it is interesting to know that sodium
phos, or Natrium phos as it is termed in chemical language,
releases water from the tissues, collects it in its little tubes
or cups in the kidneys and then drains it into the ureter which
carries it to the bladder. I have noticed that some astrologers
assign this latter organ to Scorpio, but it is wrong to do so.
All the organs having to do with the collecting of urine have
to do with Libra, and the bladder must be considered from the
last decan of this sign. This statement is the result of long
experience.
It is said that plants imbibe very freely of the potassium
salts in the soil, but they contain traces of sodium salts, in
some instances in very notable quantities. The carrot is an
example of the latter, and there is no more healthful vegetable
than this brilliantly colored product of the soil. It furnishes
us with a good supply of sodium and lime, the two salts
which are required in greater quantities than any of the
others. One should learn to like this vegetable, and to use
it several times during the week. The reason many do not
care for carrots, is because of the rather unique flavor which
is produced by the association of these two salts.
On heating sodium a vapor is produced which has a peculiar
purple color with a greenish fluorescence. It ranks fourth
with silver, copper and gold as a conductor of electricity and
heat, and is said by Bunsen to be the most electro-positive
metal with the exception of potassium, csesium and rubidium.
It is very reactive.
Encyclopaedia Britannica states, "Generally speaking,
sodium salts closely resemble the corresponding potassium
salts, and their method of preparation is usually the same.
It combines very energetically (effervesces) with moist, non-
metallic elements. It is a CONDENSING AGENT. With
potassium it forms a liquid alloy resembling mercury, which
is employed in high temperature thermometers. It is one
of the most useful gastric sedatives and antacids. It is a
constituent of most stomachic mixtures. Large doses are used
to remove fluid in dropsy. It is a diuretic, acting on the
kidneys and increasing the flow of water and the output of
urea and rendering urine less acid. It increases the flow of
bile."
I have purposely mentioned first what the Encyclopaedia
[208]
Libra and Natrium Phosphate
has to say of this salt. A few comments are necessary before
we pass on to our biochemic treatise.
First, its electrical power is second to potassium, which
means that, while it is capable of generating electrical currents,
its power is not quite so high. The proof
is,
that, while
it
will
separate oxygen and hydrogen,
it
will not at the same time set
fire to the latter.
It
is
natural, then, that
it
should follow
potassium, the Aries salt, and
in
the form of Natrium sulph
release water to be utilized
in
the production of form. As
Natrium phos, the opposite pole of Aries,
it
brings into mani
festation the life that Kali phos has contacted. This explains
why
it
is
a
condenser. "It
is
a
constituent of the stomach
fluids." This
is
an extremely important statement, not only
because
it
is
true from the biochemic standpoint, but also
for the reason that
it
serves to forever disprove
a
statement
credited to many physicians, relative to hydrochloric acid
being
a
constituent of the stomach fluids.
Scientists have stated that sodium is an alkaline salt and
is
a
constituent of most stomach fluids. It
is
a
CHEMICAL
FACT that acid can not exist
in
the presence of this salt. And
again, ACID OF ANY KIND FORMS NO PART IN
HUMAN ECONOMY.
Can anyone imagine the Great Architect and Chemist of
the Universe choosing IRRITANTS from which to fashion
the temple of God? Nothing could be more contrary to logic.
Medical science has contradicted itself here.
We add to our evidence from Gray's Anatomy which states,
as quoted before, that phosphates and chlorides of sodium,
calcium and potassium constitute
a
large proportion of the
material required
in
cell structure.
Again we ask why the profession has not informed the
general public relative to these facts? Also, why has
it
not
used them?
The Encyclopasdia also emphasizes the fact that sodium
increases the flow of urine and renders
it,
at the same time,
less acid. The truth of the matter
is
that when sufficient
Natrium phos
is
used the urine will become alkaline. This
eliminates the extremely annoying scalding which invariably
results from acid conditions.
Dr. Carey says,
in
his Biochemic System
of
Medicine,
"Acid, like seeming evil,
is
all-pervading." To accompany
his chemical statement
is
the astrological twin: All humanity
[209]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
is unbalanced, in varying degrees. If balanced, human beings
would be PERFECT. The Great Work would have been
accomplished.
Acid results from a general deficiency in the sodiums and
also from the fermentation of food. This latter condition is
general, for the reason that so few eat as they should. No
wonder the Bible states "A glutton shall not enter the king
dom of heaven." A balanced or harmonious condition of
body and brain is absolutely impossible for such an individual.
Acid causes a terrible gnawing sensation in the stomach.
Most people think this is hunger. Such is not the case, for only
after a person has gone without food for a long time could
this sensation be experienced. Those having acid are almost
constantly craving something, hence often rush into a drug
store for soda, candy or sandwiches. They are the ones
having the proverbial chip on the shoulder. The least thing
knocks it off. They are quickly upset, and easily become un
balanced.
When acid results from the fermentation of food, which is
due to the inability of the stomach to digest
it,
its long-con
tinued presence
in
the system naturally becomes
a
secondary
cause for further trouble, and many painful and dangerous
symptoms eventually appear. Chief among these
is
rheuma
tism. Even the perspiration has
a
sour odor, and
it
is
highly
irritating to the skin. If this condition continues, the kidneys
eventually become affected, and stomach or bladder ulcerates.
Vision changes, fluctuates from day to day, cloudy today,
clearer tomorrow. There
is
nothing which so quickly reacts
on the eyes as acid.
What physician can tell you that
it
is
acid which causes
a
child or adult to grind the teeth during sleep; that intestinal
parasites form
in
the accumulation of ferment
in
that long
tract; that these often cause convulsions
in
children and adults,
and in the former more frequently at night; that the throat
may become so raw and sore from the continued presence of
acid, that
it
appears to be diphtheria (it
is
termed "false
diphtheria"
by
Dr. Schuessler)
;
and that morning nausea,
a
yellow coating on the back of the tongue, itching and pimples
like flea-bites, are all due to
a
great deficiency
in
this salt.
I
wish to emphasize this point: there
is
nothing which so
quickly changes
a
good disposition into
a
quarrelsome, dis
agreeable one, as acid.
[210]
Libra and Natrium Phosphate
Other symptoms originating from lack of this salt are :
headache on the crown of the head, also the forehead; feeling
as if the skull were too full; intense pressure and heat, caus
ing one to fear insanity; headache with pain in the stomach,
and ejection of sour, frothy fluid, giddiness; inflammation
of the eyes, and the secretion there of a golden-yellow, creamy
matter. Golden yellow is always the color of the secretions,
and the tongue coating, when this salt is needed.
When Natrium phos is deficient, the ears (outer) may
become sore and scabby, with a creamy discharge, or they
may become hot and burning. There may be: itching of
the nose, denoting worms; face red and blotched, blotches
coming and going; acid risings; sour taste in mouth; canker
sores; tonsils and throat inflamed; dyspepsia; gastric abra
sions; superficial ulceration. Sometimes the long-continued
presence of acid in the stomach causes it to become partially
covered with ulcers, so deep-seated and angry-looking that
they seem to be of a cancerous nature. Frequently they DO
develop into cancers.
Sometimes diarrhoea results, especially with children; also,
jelly-like masses of mucus are passed, sometimes in such quan
tities as to surprise one, passing in chunks and strings. In
jections of this salt should be used daily to rid the tract of
this condition, and also to assist in eliminating any parasites
which may be present. «
Insufficient urination is another symptom indicative of need
of this salt, also scalding of the parts; seminal weakness or
emissions; increased sexual desire; acid secretions from the
vagina, sometimes creamy yellow and sometimes watery;
irregularity of the periods, when accompanied by frontal head
ache; morning nausea, in pregnancy; palpitation and irregular
ity of heart action (the result of imperfect digestion) ; tremb
ling around the heart, especially after eating; rheumatism of
the joints, cracking and creaking, with pain and soreness;
eczema; "rose-rash;" hives; flashes of heat from indigestion;
itching of the anus; restless sleep, etc., etc.
In Latin, the word acid is derived from acidus and its
original meaning is SHARP AND CUTTING, which has
naturally given rise to the term. There are some physio
logical fluids which must be viscid, in order to act as attractors;
but it does not mean that they are acid. However, many
have been confused on this point.
[211]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Since the terms sharp, cutting, disagreeable and unattractive
are the negatives of agreeable, pleasant, attractive, charm,
beauty and loveliness, the attributes of the purified Venus will
be readily seen.
Without sodium phosphate in the blood to supply the cells
of th,e body, the fluids in and around the corpuscles would not
only become acid, but the garment or fragile capsule surround
ing them would be pierced and the nuclei escape. To be in a
balanced state, the proportion of water must be constant,
neither too much nor too little, and the corpuscles truly may
be drowned in acid fluid.
Therefore to scale the heights and gain the balance, Venus
must bid her son Cupid throw away his darts. The sign fol
lowing Libra, that of Scorpio, tells the story of the DART or
SCORPION'S STING.
"Balance, measure and patience, these are the eternal
conditions of high success." Matthew Arnold in Celtic
Literature.
[212]
Chapter VIII
THE ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF SCORPIO
AND CALCIUM SULPH OR LIME SULPHATE
"Behold I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions and over
all the nower of the enemy; and nothing shall by any means hurt you."
Lukt 10:19.
HE Sun enters the zodiacal sign of the Scorpion on
October 23 (approximately), and remains until No
vember 22. It is the ninth Alban month. Its old
Dutch name was SLAGTH-MAAND, or SLAUGHTER
month, the time when beasts were slain and salted down for
winter use. In the old Saxon language it was Wind-moneth,
or wind-month, when the fishermen ceased their labors until
spring. In the French Republican calendar it was BRU-
MAIRE or fog-month.
Dr. Wakeman Ryno says, in his book, Amen, the God of the
Amonians, that the following are some of the terms used to
designate this sign: "Baal-Zebub, or Lord of flies; King of
the bottomless pit; Satan of the Hebrews; the very gate of
hell; the place of the tormented; the Persian Esrael, or Angel
of Death; The Angel Abaddon of Revelation; the Angel
Apollyon of the New Testament; the Angel of the Sphinx
(the Eagle)."
This same writer further states that "the constellation of
Scorpio was held by the ancients to be a bird of bad omen (the
harbinger of winter) ; thus for mystical reasons they adopted
the Eagle (Aquilla) as its sign. The sign of Scorpio was also
considered as THE VERY GATE OF HELL for the reason
that it was at the commencement of the five months of winter
with its cold, wet and very disagreeable weather, rendering
it necessary to have fires to keep warm; hence all the gods of
winter were COLORED RED, IN IMITATION OF FIRE,
and having dominion over the lower world."
In the Babylonian creation-scheme, Scorpio was Apin-dua,
meaning Opposite to the Foundation (Aries), which is very
apropos, for this sign is said by astrologers to be the house
of death, although they have never explained why.
[213]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
As Aries (the cerebrum) is the Father, or beginning (the
Creator), it is evident that Scorpio, having to do with PRO-
creation, possesses a mighty secret, concerning which the great
majority of people are still in ignorance. Mr. Bailey, editor
of the British Journal of Astrology, is the only modern
astrologer who has had the courage to deal intimately with
this subject. He states, very emphatically, in his book
Astrology and Birth Control, that, from time immemorial, the
sign Scorpio has been allocated with the organs of pro
creation, and that their use is solely for procreation. They
have a SPECIFIC function the same as the stomach, liver,
spleen, eyes and other parts of the body. Students should
obtain the above book, for it is one which will assist greatly
in restoring the ancient prestige of this splendid science, which
has been so grossly perverted.
One of the Babylonian names for Scorpio is Uigur ali,
denoting a creature which belongs to and comes up from the
underworld. It is obvious that this has reference to the
ANIMAL or procreative germs.
On ancient planispheres this sign was also termed the King
or Beast of Death. Among the figures depicted on a large
one, is that of the Mithraic Bull (Taurus), which, in so far
as art is concerned, is a reduplication of the Euphratean Bull.
He is surrounded by hostile creatures: a dog, which springs
up to lick his blood; a large serpent which bites him; and a
scorpion which seizes his genital organs. The analogy should
be clear to all, and especially to those studying the letters of
the Tarot. The twenty-first card illustrates how man is beset
by animals (animal passions).
On these same planispheres, Scorpio was also Lugal-tudda,
the THIEF and god of lightning, the giver of fire to man.
The torment produced by the sting of the scorpion was likened
to the burning of lightning. It was called the River of the
Snake, also the River of the Sheepcote of the Ghost-world.
The latter expression will be referred to and explained later
on. The electrical fire manifesting in lightning is analogous
to the fire of life which leaves the body at the termination
of the sexual act.
"And they had tails like unto scorpions, and there were
stings in their tails; and their power was to hurt men five
months" (the five months of winter)." Rev. 9:3, 4, 10, 11.
It is obvious that there is a deeper meaning to the words
[214]
Scorpio and Calcium Sulph
"And their power was to hurt men for five months." It is
true that humanity may suffer from cold during the last five
months of the year, but they are not especially "hurt," unless
living conditions are unusual. Of all the interpretations given
to this sign, and the names by which it is known in different
countries and to many races, none is positive or constructive
save that of the Eagle, which is deeply esoteric.
As usual we must make use of anatomy and physiology to
understand our subject. As Scorpio is the eighth sign, it allo
cates with the eighth division of the human body which con
tains the organs of procreation. A study of the nervous sys
tems furnishes us with the information that the great ganglia
at the base of the spinal canal termed the sacral, and the
coccygeal, which is at the end of the spine, have to do with
the procreative glands.
The largest nerve in the body, the great sciatic, rises from
the sacral center, and not only sends important branches to
the sexual glands, but other nerves branch to the knees and
to the extremities. As the sacral center allocates with Capri
corn, and the feet with Pisces, it is obvious that this portion
of the body relates to five zodiacal signs.
The secret explanation of the word "hurt" is revealed when
it is realized that the wrong use of Scorpio, the procreative
organs, in sexual excesses or self-abuse, not only actually im
pairs the activities of these five parts, but very often results
in paralysis. Therefore, five-twelfths of the human body is
directly and constantly deteriorated as a result of sex life, in
addition to the indirect effect on the other seven-twelfths.
The extremities become less and less active, the limbs stiff
and lame, the back is bent, and one appears old even if he
is not.
It is obvious that the term THIEF is exceedingly apropos,
for the sting of the Scorpion, as interpreted physiologically,
most assuredly results, sooner or later, in death for all. The
sex act not only steals energy from the five divisions of the
body represented by the extremities, but slowly and surely
reacts on the brain in exactly the same way. Besides, whether
we wish to believe it or not, it is a fact that the basic fluid
in all the glands is created in the brain, which is the first gland
in the body. The cerebrum is truly the fountain-head of life,
and within it is precipitated the mysterious semi-fluidic and
wax-like substance which is termed "the gray matter." The
[215]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
infinitesimal mineral particles in this gray matter constitute
the lode-stone, or magnet, which attracts humid air and the
Spirit of life or akasha into the brain reservoir or claustrum.
The function of the latter organ has never been explained, nor
is any information given relative to innumerable others in the
cerebrum alone.
Referring to the Euphratean term by which Scorpio was
known to the ancients, "the River of the Sheepcote of the
Ghost-world," we are surprised to find modern confirmation
of the above term.
The holidays which are recognized and celebrated today
were known in very remote times. They exist today because
their origin is based on fact. Important and vital truths con
cerning humanity are embodied in each one.
Hallowe'en is an example. This day is especially applicable
and interesting, because its celebration occurs while the Sun
is transiting the house of the Scorpion. It is well known to
many that the origin of this festival is "lost in the dim
shadows of antiquity." But although the customs and cere
monies differ more or less in each country, yet, at the same
time, a basic idea is seen to permeate them all that ghosts
walk abroad, and witches, evil spirits or goblins indulge in
their yearly revels on October 31. In ancient times, the cele
bration continued into the following day, November 1. As
these days fall in the seventh degree of Scorpio, this degree
has a Capricorn vibration.
Each two and one-half days the creative vibration of Nature
changes, corresponding to the time the moon remains in each
sign of the zodiac. To find these variations in the days of
the month (or, to be correct, in each zodiacal sign), the twelve
signs of the zodiac must be represented IN each sign. To do
this, each decan of a sign is divided up into four parts of two
and one-half degrees each. It is most interesting to study
the charts of people by this method, and I am convinced that
it is the only method by which character as well as the physical
condition can be correctly analyzed. The rising sign must
not be used. No degrees of Aries must be on the ascendant.
Returning to our subject of Hallowe'en, we find, then, that
the CHARACTER AND NATURE of this period is essen
tially Carpricornian. My researches relative to the name of
this latter sign have resulted in finding that it consists of two
words, Capri and corn.
[216]
Scorpio and Calcium Sulph
The word Capri means GOAT and corn is a general term
for seed. Therefore, Capricorn means GOAT SEED, or
animal seed. In plain words, it refers to the procreative or
venal seed. Corn also means horn.
It has been known from ancient times that the sacral
vertebrae allocate with Capricorn, but no explanation of the
reason for this has been furnished heretofore. However it has
now been found, and will be fully explained on a chart accom
panying a book entitled, The Biochemic System of Body Build
ing and Astro-Analysis. This is to be published next year.
There is much evidence to show that the festival of Hallow
e'en was originally based on some special fact having to do
with procreation. While it is a fact that none of the pastimes,
engaged in at this time, serve in any way to attract the atten
tion to this secret, nevertheless the Encyclopaedia Britannica
furnishes the following information: "On or about the first
of November the Druids held their great autumn festival and
lighted fires in honor of the Sun-god, in Thanksgiving for the
harvest. Further, it was a Druidic belief that on the eve of
this festival Saman, the Lord of death, called together the
wicked souls that within the past twelve months have been
condemned to inhabit the bodies of animals."
Before commenting on the above, another reference must
be given. Richard Hinckley Allen, in his Star Names and
Their Meanings, states that the Greek word for Graffias, one
of the stars in the constellation of the Scorpion, means CRAB.
He says "It may be that here lies the origin of the title, for
it is well known that the ideas and words for crab and scor
pion were almost interchangeable in early days, FROM THE
BELIEF THAT THE LATTER CREATURE WAS
GENERATED FROM THE FORMER."
To emphasize the above, he adds, in a foot note: "This
opinion was held by the learned Saints Augustine and Basil
of the fourth century, and confidently expressed by Saint
Isidore in his Origines et Etymologia."
Without some understanding of astrology from an esoteric
and physiological standpoint, the full significance of the two
references given above will not be appreciated.
Esoteric and biological astrology are the means wherebv
one discovers that the CRAB IS ACTUALLY CHANGED
INTO THE SCORPION. This means that one-tenth of
[217]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
the corpuscles of the body (all of which rightfully belong to
the body) under the vibration of the lower (carnal) mind,
are attracted and drawn down into the testes, and are there
changed into animal germs or corpuscles. These may be
termed negative in nature, because they are animal. The true
physiological corpuscles are neutral (neuter) in themselves,
and can reproduce by their own efforts. In other words, the
two sexes are in harmonious relationship with each other, and
hence can divide and produce "daughter cells" indefinitely, or
as required, provided, of course, that the necessary materials
are furnished.
The corpuscles are QUEEN BEES, for they are of the
same nature. They can reproduce themselves, and, in addi
tion, are capable of developing into a different germ cell. One
who is receptive to truth and scientifically minded, will find no
fault with this simile.
The above is only one of many mighty physiological secrets
which a knowledge of REAL astrology will ultimately reveal.
The analysis of words is another means.
Much more on this subject will be given in the forthcoming
book, The Truth About Sex and Birth Control.
Reviewing the interpretation given to this sign or period
of the year by the Dutch, we find that it was termed the
SLAUGHTER month. This is significant in the light of the
foregoing statements concerning the power of the mind to
attract the corpuscles into the glands testes and there convert
them into ANIMAL GERMS. In the sexual act, these germs
ARE SLAUGHTERED, SINCE IT IS A SCIENTIFIC
FACT THAT ONLY ONE SPERMATOZOA IS RE
QUIRED TO IMPREGNATE THE OVUM. The millions
which have been uselessly expended of course die, and, as the
Bible states, "Their dead bodies lie around the streets of
the city."
The above may not be a pleasant picture, but, if one stops
to consider, it w,ill be found to be true. Most people know
practically nothing relative to the body and its functions.
Unless the study of this most important subject is seriously
undertaken, the disastrous effect of wrong living will not be
realized. It is particularly important to awaken to these facts
at this time, since from October, 1928, until 1942, Neptune,
the Purifier, transits the house of health, which is Virgo, the
virgin. A UNIVERSAL housecleaning has begun. We can
[218]
Scorpio and Calcium Sulph
not sidestep it if we will. Our only hope is that the fires of
purification will find some gold in the midst of all the dross.
This terrible waste of corpuscles scourges the brain, and
causes both body and brain to deteriorate slowly or quickly,
according to the extent of the sex life. Only those who do
not wish it to be true will find this fact difficult to realize.
Degeneration, generation and regeneration these are the
three stages in the lives of the triune being animal, human,
Spiritual man. Real thinkers realize, with horror and regret,
that the majority of us are still in the first stage. In the light
of physiological fact we can not deny that this is true. A des
cription of each of the stages enables one easily to distinguish
between them.
Degeneration means that one cohabits solely for the sake
of pleasurable sensation.
Generation means to generate, to become parents, there
fore to engage in the sexual act, solely that a child may result.
Regeneration means that there is no longer any thought of
sex, therefore the act is not indulged in. As the body loses
neither creative substance nor electrical energy, body and brain
are not robbed of any of their corpuscles. Therefore they
attain the highest stage of efficiency. Thomas Vaughan states
in his remarkable work, that the seed which the body creates
must be used to feed and therefore recreate the body which
forms it. This is a self-evident fact.
The Scorpion and its sting has been known, from ancient
times as the Angel of Death ; but the White Eagle is its eso
teric symbol, and is emblematical of the Divine promise of
life everlasting to "him who overcometh." The wonderful
words, "And he shall go no more out," refer to the overcom
ing of death. Death can not take place when there are suffi
cient corpuscles to sustain life.
Is it any wonder, then, that the ancients referred to Scorpio
as "the gate of hell?" Or that it was called "the thief" since
the wiles of Venus steal away the wits?
We will now consider some of the stars in the constellation
of Scorpio, and note how the analysis of each one adds to our
accumulation of evidence.
The scorpion is said to be the slayer of the giant-man.
It is very interesting to note that Richard Hinckley Allen,
in his Star Names and Their Meanings, practically begins his
[219]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
article on Scorpio by saying that "classical authors saw in it
the monster that caused the disastrous runaway of the steeds
of Phoebus Apollo when in the inexperienced hands of
Phaeton." Energy became a consuming fire body and brain
were both destroyed.
A very large and brilliant star named ANTARES is said
to represent the heart of the Scorpion. Let us study the word.
It consists of two words, ANT and ARES. The former
means against, or in opposition to, and Ares is the Roman
name for the planet Mars and also Aries. It will be recalled
that one of Scorpio's interpretations is "opposite to the
foundation," meaning that it seeks to undermine and destroy
that foundation which is LIFE itself (represented by the
cerebrum or Aries).
It is very evident that ANT-ares refers to Mars in a
negative or destructive sense, as ruler of Scorpio in the present
stage of evolution. As astrology teaches that Mars rules
Aries and Scorpio, it is necessary closely to analyze the word
Mars.
As ruler of Aries, Mars has already been considered, and
its interpretation there is energy used CONSTRUCTIVE
LY, to create or build up. As ruler of Scorpio it becomes the
Angel or means of Death. It does not create, but tears down
and destroys.
I therefore contribute the following for the use of students :
Mars rules the first seven signs of the zodiac positively and
constructively. It is energy, and as such creates and operates
the seven vital organs of the body, from Aries to, and inclusive
of, Libra. Mars rules Scorpio and the other four parts of
the body negatively and hence destructively. It has lost its
spiritual vibration, and has become animal. Thus it is said
that "iEsculapius stole fire from heaven and chained it to
the earth."
Remember that Scorpio is next to Libra the balance sign.
If one passes beyond the BALANCE POINT (Phaeton was
told to keep the MIDDLE course), he sees the claws of the
Scorpion reaching out to grasp him, and feels its poisonous
breath upon his face. HE MUST NOT GO BEYOND
THE "RING PASS NOT."
It is not strange, then, that Mars has been interpreted, up
to the present, as "the god of war," for those living in its
negative vibration can not interpret it otherwise.
[220]
Scorpio and Calcium Sulph
The Chinese call Antares, Ta Who, the GREAT FIRE.
It will at once be realized that this is very appropriate. There
is no more consuming fire than that of sex.
It is interesting to note, in the Bible Concordance, that there
are seven different interpretations of the serpent, just as there
are seven of the lion (as given under Leo). They deal with
the different stages or conditions of the material which is
studied under Scorpio.
In Revelation it refers to "the old serpent which is the
devil." Ignorance (hence sin or wrong doing) is the negative
interpretation, while wisdom is the positive. "Be ye wise as
a serpent and harmless as a dove." Matthew 10:16.
In Isaiah we find direct reference to the esoteric symbol
of Scorpio as the FLYING SERPENT. "For out of the
serpent's root shall come forth a cockatrice, and his fruit shall
be a fiery flying serpent." This plainly means the serpent fire
in the sacral and coccygeal region, or base of the spine. Some
of this fire (fire of wisdom) is lost in sexual congress. The
serpent "must be lifted up." The truth is, that IF IT IS LET
ALONE (not lost) IT WILL EVENTUALLY GO UP.
A scientific explanation of the above statement
is,
that where
there
is
no break
in
circulation there
is
no LOSS. Circulation
means to move, to revolve
in
a
circle. Because humanity,
in
its present stage of evolution has such
a
break in its glandular
circulation, loss
is
inevitable. The Divine Fire of iEsculapius
can not ascend, nor can all of the essence created
in
the cere
brum return to it.
It
is
true of many persons that very little
of
it
returns, and the cerebro-spinal system struggles on and
works over-time, as
it
were, to supply enough to keep the
physical mechanism functioning.
Continuing with our verifications of Scorpio, we find that,
according to Richard Allen, "The Akkadians called
it
Girtab,
the Seizer or Stinger. IT SEIZES or steals the corpuscles
of the body,
in
very truth, and the vernacular expression "you
are stung,"
is
heard not infrequently.
It
is,
together with
that other expression mentioned earlier ("Give me something
with
a
kick
in
it,") representative of our present emotional
status.
This same name, Girtab,
is
given another interpretation
the PLACE WHERE ONE BOWS DOWN. It, too,
is
particularly apropos, for the reason that one of the three male
sexual glands
is
expressive of the same meaning.
I
refer to
[221]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
the prostate, which means to prostrate or bow down. The
prostate receives the male germ seeds after they have been
perfected in the testes. They are stored here until ejaculated.
The female uterus, correspondingly, receives the ovum. If
fertilized, it remains. If not, it passes out of the body. Both
GO DOWN, which is the same as bowing down.
In early planispheres the Scorpion was represented as
grasping the Scales of Libra. This definitely proves that the
ancients were well aware of the fact that sex unbalances
physiological and metaphysical functions. These were in
tended by the Divine Architect and Chemist to be perfect
therefore balanced.
It is said that Odilo, Abbot of Clugny, appointed November
2, the day following Hallowe'en, as a time set apart to pray
for souls in purgatory. Lost human procreative germs! Are
they not truly LOST SOULS? INDEED, THERE ARE
NO LOST SOULS EXCEPT THESE. Each individual has
life after life in which to make good, incarnation after incar
nation. Our many lives in which the Spirit returns, again and
again, into a new baby body to learn to build constructively,
are analogous to school days. The pity
is,
that we have all
been so slow
in
learning.
Richard Allen also gives us this curious information, which,
in
the light of previous chapters, should be readily understood
:
"but the alchemists held Scorpio
in
high regard, for only when
the sun was
in
this sign could the transmutation of iron into
gold be performed."
As iron
is
the allocating salt of Mars, and Mars
is
energy,
the highest use of this chemical
is
the creation of the most
precious and noble metal, that of gold. In its true and esoteric
signification, all of the old alchemical stories really referred to
the transmutation of the inferior and imperfect products of
the human body into perfect ones. However, this transmuta
tion was interpreted as an ulterior process, for only
a
few
were capable of realizing that
it
had
a
far different meaning.
The special place of Mars
in
Scorpio was said to be
in
its
tail and sting. "The claws were especially related to the star
Jugum
in
the Yoke of the Balance (Libra) being associated
with Venus, because this goddess united persons under the yoke
of matrimony," says Richard Allen. Perhaps this may serve to
reveal the reason for so many divorces. At least
it
is
one
of the many, and probably the most important.
[
222
]
Scorpio and Calcium Sulph
If one studies the new (to this age) and unique diagram
and chart entitled "THE COSMIC EMBRYO," found else
where in this book, he will note that each succeeding sign of
the zodiac takes less space than the preceding one. The fol
lowing is what Richard Hinckley Allen has to say of Scorpio:
"Although nominally in the zodiac, the sun actually occupies
but nine days in passing through the two portions that project
upwards into Ophiucus, so far south of the ecliptic is it; in
deed, except for these projections, it could not be claimed as
a member of the Zodiac." Perhaps this is what the Scriptures
refer to in the passage which says: "And except those days
should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved; but for
the elects' sake those days shall be shortened."
The above no doubt refers particularly to the ten degrees
of the first decan of this sign, which covers the part of the
human body assigned to the CREATION OF ANIMAL
GERMS. If more space in the body had been allotted to
this function.it is undeniably true that"no flesh could survive,"
for the flesh itself would be robbed of many more corpuscles
than is now the case.
Another interesting name given to this star "Antares" by
the ancient Euphrateans was Bilu-sha-ziri, or LORD OF
THE SEED. This proves that Antares really belongs in
the first decan of Scorpio, where the seed is created.
Twelve years ago, my researches showed me that the first
decan of Scorpio is related to the glands testes, or correspond
ingly, the ovaries. The middle decan is related to Cowpers'
glands in the male, and the glands of Bartholin in the female.
The last ten degrees cover the prostate and correspond
ingly the uterus. This will be found infallible when the
NATURAL ZODIAC IS USED, for the zodiac is essentially
physiological as well as anatomical.
The Euphrateans also called this star Kak-shisa, the
Creator of Prosperity, an interpretation which is essentially
appropriate. One is very rich, who has much grain in his
of the Biblical story of the rich man. He was told to ex
change what he had, and give it to the poor (the poor, starved
cells). "But he went away sorrowful, for he had much
possessions."
"In Egyptian astronomy Scorpio represented the goddess
Selkit or Serk-t and was the symbol of Isis in the pyramid cere-
was probably the origin
[223]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
monies" says Richard Allen. When it is recalled that the
Moon was known by the name of Isis, its real nature, that of
fertility, will be recognized. True fertility is considered
under Cancer, and is concerned with the creation of corpuscles.
In Scorpio, a certain number of these are changed to animal
germs.
This function of Scorpio is verified by the belief of the
ancient astrologers that Scorpions were generated from crabs.
Indeed, the early Fathers of Christianity, Saints Augustine,
Basil, and Isidore, confidently expressed their knowledge of
this most profound secret. It is obvious that the ancients
were well aware of it. This would not have been the case
if they had used this mighty science, astrology, other than in
relation to the body.
ABSOLUTE PURITY IS THE FOUNDATION OF
THE STRUCTURE OF THE REAL CHURCH. The
purified body is a Holy Place, a Sanctuary, a Holy of Holies.
Otherwise, it is a house in which to abide for a little while.
Sometimes it is a mere shack.
Akrab, one of the names of Scorpio, means Wounding. It
will be recalled that in a previous chapter Venus was said
to have arisen from the foam of the sea, at the wounding of
Uranus. As the latter is the Son of Man (the Savior) in
astrological lore, this story really refers to the saline solution
of the blood being robbed of its corpuscles. Aquarius (over
which Uranus rules) relates to the blood serum, the saline
or vitalizing portion.
No comment should be necessary on the following, quoted
from Richard Allen: "Another star in this Euphratean plani
sphere is Gis-gan-gu-sur, the Light of the Hero, or the Tree
of the Garden of Light, placed in the midst of the abyss and
reminding us of that other tree, the Tree of Life in the
midst of the Garden of Eden." It is obvious that it is the
Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil, otherwise positive and
negative.
This same star was called the Crown. There is no doubt
of its thorns. There are two other stars in this constellation,
named Al Shaulah and Vicritau, interpreted as "the Two
Releasers" which are analogous to the two ejaculatory
glands, otherwise called Caput Gallinaginis or Vermontanum,
in works on Physiology.
In Hindu lore, we find many of the stars of Scorpio grouped
[224]
Scorpio and Calcium Sulph
under one name, that of Calamity. Here this name refers to
the negative or destructive character of Scorpio. The
Euphrateans depicted its positive nature as Prosperity, which
thus allocates with its symbol, the White Eagle.
Richard Allen states that "the names and legend that
Ellis, in his Polynesian Researches, applied to Castor and
Pollux, the Reverend Mr. W. W. Gill asserts, in his Myths
and Songs of the South Pacific, belong here, and are the
favorites among the story-tellers of the Hervey Islands.
They make one, a little girl, Piri-ere-ua, the Inseparable, with
her smaller brother, fleeing from home to the sky when ill
treated by their parents; two other stars which follow them
are still in pursuit."
Castor and Pollux, it will be remembered, were considered
under Gemini, and an analysis of the two names was given.
It is quite easy to believe that they were related to the sign
Scorpio, as well as to Gemini, since the latter is the lower, or
carnal mind, which dwells for the most part on the activity
of that part of the body allocated with Scorpio. Indeed, it
is quite well known that pollux, or bollus, in common parlance
is a name applied to one of the genital organs. The word
castrate is derived from the same root as Castor, and means
to emasculate by removing the testes.
In describing the scorpion, we find that the dictionaries state
that "it is distinguishable at a glance from all other existing
members by having the last six segments of its body modified
to form a highly flexible tail, armed at the end with a sting
consisting of a vescicle holding a pair of poison glands, and
of a sharp spine behind the tip of which the ducts of the
glands open. They are extraordinarily susceptible to heat,
and when they feel it beating down upon them they brandish
their tails and strike right and left as if to drive off the unseen
enemy."
Since the scorpion really corresponds to, and has to do with,
the last five signs of the zodiac and the corresponding parts
of the body, the number of its segments is apropos. The
statement that it is "extraordinarily susceptible to heat," is
another allocation verified by the well-known fact that the
ously to the fire of passion. The reaction of the scorpion to
heat, as it brandishes its tail and strikes, is equally applicable
to the sexual organ.
sexual organs are equally
i . . i /? _ e
tible. They react instantane-
[225]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
At this point it will be well to explain the meaning of the
symbol of this sign. It consists of the ancient letter "m" with
the last stroke extended down below the line and a sting placed
at the end.
The chapter on Virgo should be reviewed in order to realize
the full significance of this letter. In Hebrew it is spelled
MEM, and means mother, the female, creative fluid, sea water
(because it contains all the elements which sustain life). The
fish in the sea water correspond to the corpuscles in the saline
solution of the blood. Naturally, MEM means substance, or
material, as stated in the sixth chapter, and when material
or substance has become pure it is Virgin Mary.
The sting on the tail should be recognized as Cupid's dart,
for he is the hunter whose arrow has ever been known to
wound.
It is obvious that sufficient has already been written relative
to the character of this sign to enable everyone to understand
why the sign of the Balance, or Libra, is placed between Scor
pio and the sign of the Virgin. The two natures are diametri
cally opposed to one another. Down through the ages, these
three have stared humanity in the face, a veritable picturiza-
tion of God's plan for mankind. Harmony or balance must
eventually exist between Virgo and Scorpio, for not until then
will it be possible for the latter proudly to replace the symbol
of the Scorpion with that of the Eagle. The glandular fluid
will have turned to molten gold and ascended to the heights
the cerebrum the Place of the Most High.
Many other strange and interesting Scriptural statements
relating to this part of the body could be given, but they will
be incorporated in forthcoming books on these subjects. But
one more will not be out of place, since the Two Releasers,
the stars allocating with the part of the body we are consider
ing, correspond to caput gallinaginis which in Latin means
"head of the woodcock" and is the physiological term for the
glands ejaculating the procreative fluid.
It will be recalled that the cock is mentioned in the Scrip
tures in reference to Peter's denial of Jesus. It is a fact that
the word "Gever" in Hebrew means both man and cock.
When the complete interpretation and histology of this
barnyard fowl is known, then only will students realize why
there are so many references to it in occult literature. Animal
glyphs always typify, and are symbolical of, the animal or
[226]
Scorpio and Calcium Sulph
carnal nature. It is a fact, then, that the "crowing" of this
most electrical of all animals exactly corresponds to, and is
analogous to, the physiological action of the caput gallinaginis
in man.
Why does chanticleer crow while it is yet dark? It heralds
the approach of the SUN, that electrical orb, the nature of
which exactly corresponds to its own. It senses the coming of
the positive rays or vibrations which impregnate all things
with new life and energy. And so the cock, master of his own
harem, knows that it is his special business to do the same on
his own plane.
Madame Blavatsky, in her Secret Doctrine, has the follow
ing to say of it: "A very occult bird, much appreciated in
ancient augury and symbolism. According to the Zohar, the
cock crows three times before the death of a person; and in
Russia and all Slavonian countries whenever a person is ill
on the premises where a cock is kept, its crowing is held to
be a sign of inevitable death, unless the bird crows at the
hour of midnight, or immediately afterward, when its crow
ing is considered natural. As the cock was sacred to jEscu-
lapius, and as the latter was called SOTER (SAVIOR), who
raised the dead to life, the Socratic exclamation 'We owe a
cock to iEsculapius,' just before the Sage's death, is very
suggestive. As the cock was always connected in symbology
with the SUN (or solar gods) Death and Destruction, it has
found its appropriate place in the four gospels in the prophecy
about Peter repudiating his Master before the cock crowed
thrice. The cock is the most magnetic and electric of all birds,
hence its Greek name ELECTRUM."
The word chanticleer means SHRILL SINGER, since the
bird has a rather hoarse or grating voice. The opposite of
harmony is FRICTION, and this latter term is entirely
applicable to the cock IN EVERY RESPECT, even to its
physiological correspondence. Friction must be initiated in
order to enable the ejaculatory glands to produce the spas
modic convulsion necessary to force out the procreative fluid.
All interpretations of the word cock given in the diction
aries, indubitably add to the verifications of our discoveries
concerning physiological correspondence. Cock means a leader,
boss or master. In Danish it is a lump or heap. Other interpre
tations are: to contend or fight; a small conical pine; to turn
[227]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
or stick up. All of which goes to prove the magic which the
study of words reveals.
How scandalized most ministers of the Gospel would be,
to learn the real interpretation of the cock on the church
steeple. If asked to explain, they would no doubt reply that
the cock is mentioned in the Bible in connection with Peter's
repudiation of Jesus. Therefore it is an ever-present reminder
to humanity today, to watch out and not deny Him. In the
light of the points given above, as well as the story told in
each zodiacal sign, it should be clear that this bird was used
as a symbol because it was analogous to a certain part of the
human anatomy.
One or two curious references to the cock are given
as further verification: "Nourish a cock, but offer it not in
sacrifice. This is the eighteenth Symbolic Saying in the
Protreptics of Iamblichus. The cock was sacred to Minerva
(goddess of wisdom) and also to the Sun and Moon, and it
would be impious to offer a sacrilegious offering to the gods.
WHAT IS ALREADY CONSECRATED TO GOD CAN
NOT BE EMPLOYED IN SACRIFICE."
"The Misha says 'they do not rear cocks at Jerusalem on
account of the holy things.'
"
Naturally this does not refer
to the city of that name, but to a part of the anatomy.
It is interesting to find that one of the star figures in the
constellation of Scorpio is that Ophiucus, struggling with
the serpent. Stung in one heel, he crushes it with the other.
Mars, as negative ruler of Scorpio, is said in Greek myth
ology to be the lover of the goddess of beauty herself
(Venus). However, the description of the oldest known
statue of the supposed "god of war" is that of a seated Mars
with Eros at his feet, symbolical of energy, that great creative
power which ensouls the erotes or SPIRITS OF LIFE.
The temple and oldest altar of Mars was situated at the
Campus Martinus. His sacred emblems were the shield and
spear, which, it was believed, had fallen from heaven. These
were carried by the priests at the different festivals held in
his honor. The first of these was celebrated in March while
the others took place in October. These two periods repre
sented THE OPENING AND CLOSING OF THE CAM
PAIGN SEASON. These correspond to the creation of the
vital organs and the activities taking place within them. The
word campaign means any organized action or movement.
[228]
Scorpio and Calcium Sulph
In October a special event took place, termed the Lustrum.
It was a solemn ceremony of expiation and purification. We
would do well ourselves to set aside a day for such a purpose.
Mars, as ruler of Scorpio, is the scourge of mortals, and in
this sign only is it interpreted as having to do with rapine
and murder, a veritable slaughter of the innocents. And it
must be understood that this is solely and entirely due to
human ignorance. Mars was born to labor from the heights.
We can not blame him that mortals have dragged him down
into the mire and filth. Mars is actually subject to Minerva,
the goddess of wisdom, for only she is capable of forcing him
to keep his place ON THE HEIGHTS.
"Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims,
ABSTAIN FROM FLESHLY LUSTS, WHICH WAR
AGAINST THE SOUL." Pet. 2:11.
Mankind must become SELF-REDEEMED. This will
be accomplished through knowledge of SELF.
In Smith's Bible Dictionary, we find the following in
reference to the scorpion: "The Biblical references to the
scorpion have clearly no reference to the animal, but to some
instrument of scourging probably a whip with iron points
unless indeed the expression is a mere figure. The punish
ment of scourging was prescribed by the law in cases of
unchastity."
In his very unique and interesting article on medicine, this
same author seems to have been awake to the real cause of
death and disease, for he further states: "Youthful lusts die
out, and their organs, of which the 'grasshopper' is perhaps a
figure, are relaxed. The 'silver cord' may be that of nervous
sensation, or motion, or even the spinal marrow itself. Per
haps some incapacity of retention may be signified by the
'golden bowl broken' ; the 'pitcher broken at the well' suggests
some vital supply stopping at the usual source derangement,
perhaps, of the digestion or of respiration; the 'wheel shivered
at the cistern' conveys, through the image of the water-lifting
process familiar in irrigation, the motion of the blood,
pumped, as it were, through the vessels, and fertilizing the
whole system; for 'THE BLOOD IS THE LIFE.' "
Such statements as the above prove that the consciousness
of Dr. Smith, the author, was striving to "bring through" the
true explanation and interpretation of the Bible which is
PHYSIOLOGICAL. No other modern Bible dictionary
[229]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
shows anywhere near the intuition and erudition of Dr. Wil
liam Smith. His book was first published in 1860-63 in three
volumes of nearly 3200 pages. Anyone possessing this original
work is indeed fortunate. In recent years, these three volumes
have been re-edited and the information contained in them
reduced to less than half that number of pages.
"The Three Wise Men," "the payment of taxes," "re
demption money," "tithes," "vine and fig tree," as well as
innumerable other curious statements, will become intelligible,
if studied in the light that the interpretation of Scorpio casts
upon these subjects.
Mr. G. A. Gaskell, in his Dictionary of the Sacred
Languages of All Scriptures and Myths, says of Scorpio: "It is
a symbol of the eighth period of the cycle of life, in which
the desire nature is predominant in the soul. It signifies the
mental emotional procreative function that which can pro
create and re-create mental concepts and states. This is the
multiplying function which ties to re-birth, and so Scorpio
becomes the sign of the 'fall into generation,' on the physical
plane in the middle of the Third Root Race, when mind com
menced to function in early human bodies. The present
method of the life cycle in which humanity is gaining ex
perience and evolving its nature is still that of the sign
Scorpio."
As Scorpio is opposite the sign Taurus, these two signs are
complements of each other. Further comments from the pen
of Mr. Gaskell are instructive : "A symbol of the lower aspect
of the emotion-nature. As seen in the sculptures of the God
Mithra slaying the Bull, it signifies that the emotions are
active through contact with matter."
Swedenborg says: "By a scorpion is signified deadly per
suasion; and by a scorpion of the earth persuasion, that falses
are truths in things relating to the church; for a scorpion
when he stings a man induces a stupor upon his limbs.
"The disciplined qualities of the soul, which possess the
power of the Christ the love of goodness and truth within
them, are able to overcome the lower desires and emotions,
and the power of the lower principle; and illusion can not
affect them for they have knowledge of truth."
It must be understood that "knowledge of truth" is the
result of experience induced by suffering. It is the effect on
the body, as well as the mind, that eventually causes a person
[230]
Scorpio and Calcium Sulph
to cease doing a thing that causes suffering. Thus chemical,
physiological, anatomical and astrological information are
absolutely essential.
Mr. Gaskell further says: "Now the desire-mind (the
serpent) is more insidious than any of the simple lower desires
or appetites (the beasts), and thus is able to lead the emotion-
nature astray from the higher intuitions, and to divert the
vibrations of energy downward to the plane of the desires.
And so the emotion-nature is drawn to the sense objects."
Here we have direct reference to Leo, the sign dealing with
this subject. But no matter how much these topics are con
sidered by various writers, none actually reveal the real
method for remedying the situation. Chemistry alone will
solve the problem, for all creation is accomplished because
certain elements are able to do certain work.
Therefore, when a particular kind of work is required, the
perfect chemical plan must be supplied, otherwise the desired
result will not be attained.
"Then the desire-mind represents to the emotion-nature
that death or extinction shall not supervene for such behavior;
for the Divine nature knows that when the fruits of action are
tasted, experience shall be acquired which will be the means
by which Godhood will eventually be achieved through cleav
ing to the good, and shunning evil." G. A. Gaskell.
"The Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil, by which
man fell, changed into the Tree of Life by which Satan
perished; the fruit of disobedience becoming the fruit of the
Tree that is in the midst of paradise : the garden whence the
first Adam was driven forth replaced by the garden where
the second Adam arose from the dead." J. M. Neal, Com.
Psalms, Vol. 1, p. 139.
In the above quotation the reference to two Adams is a
little confusing to the average reader. Adam in Hebrew,
means man or red earth, because of the color of the flesh,
and the fact that the physical body IS made of earth, for it
is the meaning of the word SALT. The different salts (12)
build the body. "And God made man from the DUST OF
THE EARTH." (Bible).
R. J. Campbell, in his Sermon, The Tree of Knowledge,
writes understanding^ on this subject and exactly from the
viewpoint of this book. He claims the Bible is NOT history.
He says: "I admit that the Genesis story (of the fall) as it
[231]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
stands can not be reasonably regarded as history: it is not
history, it is something better; it is a symbolic statement of
certain facts of experience."
There is no curse laid upon humanity for seeking self-
preservation or the continuity of the race. This must be, as
it is the only means whereby evolution may work out and
perfection be attained. Generation is a step toward perfec
tion, and an absolutely necessary preliminary phase. Review
the interpretation of the word, and thoroughly understand
what its true meaning is. NO COHABITATION EXCEPT
FOR CHILDREN.
In the Secret Doctrine, by Madam Blavatsky, on page 410,
Vol. II, we find the following clear-cut statement: "Nor was
the curse of Karma called down upon them for seeking
natural union, as all the mindless animal-world does in its
proper seasons; but, for abusing the creative power, for
desecrating the divine gift, and wasting the life-essence for no
purpose except bestial personal gratification."
This is indeed emphatic language and there is absolutely
no mistaking its meaning. And the statement in Genesis
"multiply, replenish and subdue THE EARTH," has refer
ence to one thing only, THE EARTHLY body of man.
Who has tamed the cyclone, who can prevent the appear
ance of lightning, who can stop an earthquake? The only
earth that each one of us can subdue is that of our own bodies
and animal passions. We CAN also multiply and replenish
the cells of our own earthly bodies.
"But a better land is there
Where Olympus cleaved the air,
The high still dell where the Muses dwell,
Fairest of all things fair.
O there is Grace, and there is Heart's Desire,
And peace to adorn thee, thou Spirit of guiding fire."
Eur. Bacch. 409.
We will now consider the chemical side of the scorpion.
Dr. Carey allocated it with Calcium sulph or lime sulphate,
which is commonly known as Gypsum or plaster of Paris. The
origin of the latter term is not known. To hide this fact,
the dictionaries state that plaster of Paris derived its name
from the fact that it was first discovered near Paris ! No
doubt the word Paris is derived from the Latin verb pareo,
to become visible, to appear, to bring forth, to lay (as con
cerning eggs). This latter is very apropos, since eggs are
protected by shells of this salt, plaster of Paris.
[232]
Scorpio and Calcium Sulph
Calcium sulphate appears native as anhydrite, which means
destitute of water. It is well known that when this salt is
mixed with water to form plaster, the water quickly evapo
rates, leaving a hard surface which serves as a protection.
Gypsum is another term for it. The root of this word means :
to wander without a fixed purpose, to go around or gyrate a
circular motion. It is probably of eastern origin. The word
gypsy is derived from the same root, and is very apropos,
since this race or tribe of people is noted for its nomadic
nature.
Nomas is the Latin word from which nomadic is derived,
and means to distribute or allot. It will be observed that
this characteristic also applies to this salt (Calcium sulph).
The gyri of the cerebrum are its convolutions, and it is
easy to see that this salt must play an important part in form
ing them. Indeed, we are beginning to realize that all move
ment in nature is circular. In the building of all forms, cosmic
and microscopic, this circular movement is necessary. The
slang phrase "to gyp" means to swindle or cheat a person.
As it is the root of the word gypsum or Calcium sulphate,
we readily see that it is truly applicable to the sign Scorpio
in a negative sense, since all who do not make the RIGHT
USE of the procreative material are actually gyping them
selves of their most precious possession, and are not aware
of this fact.
It is said that the Romans marked with gypsum the feet
of slaves put up for sale. This applies also to Scorpio, since
human beings are yet enslaved and will be until sexual com
merce and exchange ceases.
Calcium sulph or gypsum is used as a dressing for soil and
also in making plaster casts and for stiff bandages.
We find that the word gypsy is related to the word iEgyp-
tus, from which Egypt is derived meaning a place of darkness
and plagues. As a gypsy may be a vagrant and a fugitive,
it is easy to see the analogy of this word to the procreative
germs, for they float about and are driven to and fro without
any certain direction. This is why most of us are vagabonds
and fugitives, for we are traveling away from, instead of
toward, HOME, our true destination. After a period of fall
ing by the wayside, unable to travel further, and suffering
tortures, we cry aloud for help. This. is "knocking at the
door" of self-knowledge. And that door opens a little or it
[233]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
opens wide, according to the strength and sincerity of that cry.
Applied to grape vines, Calcium sulph is said to improve
the color and keeping qualities of the grapes. Biochemistry
enables us to understand why. The skins are healthier and
therefore furnish better protection for their contents. The
same is true of egg shells, for they are formed from this same
material.
In certain combinations, this salt may be made to take up
and hold a certain quantity of water, or it may be made to
release nearly all of it. Hydrous sulphate of lime is soft and
easily scratched by the nails; but curiously enough, it is affected
very little by acid. This is a fact which must be remembered
in studying the association of this salt with the human body.
It is well to state here that this salt has one very important
use in the human body. It coats all its vascular surfaces. The
surfaces must be protected from contact with fluids. There
fore the anhydrous form plays its part as well in physiological
and anatomical well-being.
How many ever stop to think why the stomach lining is not
itself digested? The reason
is,
that
it
is
coated with plaster
of Paris. When this salt becomes very deficient, naturally
the coating on the stomach becomes thin, and easily abrased
by irritating particles of any foreign substance. Also by the
continued presence of acid. The fact that this lining
is
not
quickly affected by acid
is
one of the wise provisions of benefi
cent Nature and Nature's God, otherwise we would not have
the wonderful opportunities for recovering that we now have.
Indeed we would not even have the time
in
which to recover.
The eyeballs, the nasal passages, mouth, throat, the passage
way into the stomach, the bladder,
in
fact all parts contacting
moisture must have
a
certain number of particles of this salt
for protection.
Dr. Schuessler's treatise on biochemistry, as well as all
works by subsequent writers on this subject, gives certain
definite modalities by which anyone may at once recognize
a
symptom and its cause. One of the modalities concerned with
lack of Calcium sulph,
is
a
BURNING SENSATION. Even
the skin may have this feeling. One occasionally contacts peo
ple who suffer from burning feet and are very uncomfortable
in
bed. They usually stick the feet out from under the covers.
Great relief
is
felt when they contact any cold surface. This
salt should be taken intensively generously for this trouble.
[234]
Scorpio and Calcium Sulph
Ulcerated stomach is caused by deficiency in this salt, and
there is no symptom that is more quickly relieved and cured;
for, as soon as this salt is taken into the stomach, it can at once
coat the surface, as it is not obliged to go into the blood
before being carried to the surface or part requiring it.
When one realizes that Calcium sulph or plaster of Paris
forms egg shells, without which the contents of eggs would
not be preserved to fulfill their function, he understands the
outstanding and curious relationship which this salt bears
to the sign Scorpio.
This part of the body, the procreative glands, CREATES
AND PRESERVES the procreative germ cells, until, of
course, the spasmodic action of the nerves results in their
prostration. These germ cells are little eggs differentiated
corpuscles and must have shells to protect them. This
enables their contents to be preserved intact. Science has
named these shells CASTS. As yet, doctors have been unable
to explain why casts are sometimes found in the blood.
Schuessler's system is the only method which throws light on
this subject.
When Calcium sulph becomes very deficient there
is,
natur
ally, insufficient to make the corpuscles or human egg-shells.
The result
is
that their contents are unable to remain intact.
They turn to pus. Loss of the casts, and disintegration of the
organic substances in the corpuscles,
is
the cause
of
pus.
Medical science has never explained this. This salt is one
of the specifics
in
venereal diseases, and Kali mur, the
LOWER MIND salt,
is
the other.
One of the three causes of barrenness
in
females,
is
lack of
this salt, for the ova are unable to obtain sufficient Calcium
sulph to complete their casts. Pus
is
frequently found in the
ovaries or ovarian tubes.
It
is
not uncommon for males to
suffer from
a
collection of pus
in
the testes or prostate,
although found more often
in
the latter.
Fistulas result from nature's efforts to rid the system of
pus. She forces openings which remain until all pus has
drained away, and Calcium sulph has been supplied. Long-
continued suppuration
is
caused
by
starvation of the blood
in
this salt. Indeed
it
is
one of the three causes of anemia. Dis
integration of both creative and procreative corpuscles or cells
result from an insufficient supply of this salt. People having
yellowish or pasty-colored complexions require Calcium
sulphate.
[235]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
This remarkable salt is a natural cement, and it is no wonder
that it is termed "POTTER'S STONE." Indeed, it is
especially applicable to the sign Scorpio.
The Scriptures contain many references to clay, potter's
wheel, etc., etc. In Isaiah 64:6,7,8 and 11th verses, we
find the following: "But we are all as an unclean thing, and
all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags; and we all do fade as
a leaf; and our iniquities, like the wind, do take us away."
"But now, O Lord, thou art our father; we are the clay,
and thou our potter; and we all are the work of thy hand."
"Our holy and our beautiful house, where our fathers
praised thee, is BURNED UP WITH FIRE; and all our
pleasant things are laid waste."
Recalling the interpretation given this period of the year
by the ancients that it is the gate of the abyss or bottomless
pit, we find the above quotations very apropos. They also
fit in well with the sign of Scorpio.
It is well to read over the chapter on Gemini in order to
link up here with the Latin word Cadus, meaning vessel. This
is analogous to the human form made of earth or clay and
actually shaped by means of the gyrating motion of the cere
bral currents following a path formed like the figure 8. This
is a physiological fact.
Is it any wonder that the BURIAL GROUND FOR
STRANGERS, PAUPERS AND CRIMINALS IS TERM
ED "THE POTTER'S FIELD?" It is based on the fact
that the sign Scorpio is intimately related to death and burial.
And it is also true that both are the result of pauperizing
ourselves, becoming strangers to our higher selves and there
fore criminals in the true sense of the word. We have sinned
against the Most High.
The ancients made funeral urns of alabaster, a most beauti
ful form of Calcium sulph. A cadaver (dead body) was
sealed in a sarcophagus by the ancients. These burial urns
were of a form of lime (Calcium) which was believed slowly
to consume the body.
How paradoxical it is that we make every effort (or have
in the past) to PRESERVE DEAD BODIES and are very
little concerned in preserving the corpuscles of the living body.
It is a very good thing that cremation is coming more and more
into use.
Some of the many other symptoms which are caused by
[236]
Scorpio and Calcium Sulph
deficiency in this salt are: suppurations of yellow, purulent
matter; abscess of the cornea; deep-seated ulcers of the eye;
discharge of pus from the ear; third stage of cold, when the
discharge is thick and yellow ; chronic catarrh ; mattery pimples
on the face and especially at puberty; purulent secretions in
the mouth; ulceration of the roots of the teeth; swollen gums
and cheeks; third stage of sore throat and quinsy (suppura
tion) ; discharge of matter or blood and matter from the
bowels; abscess of the liver; ulceration of the bowels; running
off of the bowels; chronic inflammation of the bladder; sup
purating abscess of the prostate in the male or the ovaries
in the female; syphilis or gonorrhea, in the suppurative stage;
yellow leucorrhea; inflammation of the breast; last stages of
tuberculosis (indeed for all stages, since its inception is caused
by lack of all forms of Calcium) ; cough with mattery sputa;
burning of soles of the feet; skin festering easily, especially
around the nails; neglected wounds which do not seem able
to heal, due to a deficiency in this cast-making material. This
salt should follow the use of Silicea, the surgeon which cleans
out pus.
A marvelous change gradually takes place within the
physical vessel, containing as it does the dead and dying cells.
It will eventually become a beautiful alabaster vase from
which not one drop of the precious oil of life is spilled. The
ancient Greeks realized the imperfect condition of man's body
and the cause, and Euripides, in his Hippolytus, makes his
chorus sing:
"In vain, in vain by old Alpheus' shore,
The blood of many bulls doth stain the river,
And all Greece bows on Phoebus' Pythian floor,
Yet bring we to the Master of men no store,
The Keybearer that standeth at the door
Close barred, where hideth ever
Love's inmost jewel. Yea, though he sacke man's life,
Girt with calamity and strange ways of strife,
Him have we worshipped never."
"For we must all appear before the judgment seat of
Christ; that everyone may receive the things done in his body,
according to that he hath done, whether it is good or bad."
2 Cor. 5:10.
[237]
Chapter IX
THE ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF SAGITTARIUS
AND SILICEA
"And I saw and behold a WHITE HORSE, and he that sat on him had a
BOW, and a crown was given unto him, and he went forth conquering and
to conquer." Rrv. 6:2.
^^^^HE Sun enters the zodiacal sign Sagittarius on Novem-
I ] ber 22, approximately, and remains until December
^^^^ 21. It relates to the higher mind and anatomically
to the hips and thighs. It is also concerned with the forma
tion of the first blood vessels. Jupiter is its ruler. As this
period covers more of December than of November, it is
associated with the vibration of ten, which is the perfect num
ber expressing incessant equilibrium, will power and suprem
acy. Sagittarius is the third and last of the fir© triplicity.
Its symbol is the Centaur, a mythological being having the
body of a horse, with the head, neck, and arms of a man. He
holds a drawn bow, and points an arrow upward. This sign
also deals with religion and law.
Referring to Greek mythology, we find that Jupiter or Zeus,
when an infant, was concealed in the island of Crete in order
to save him from following the fate of his other brothers and
sisters. It seems that his father Chronos (Saturn) was told
that he would be dethroned by one of his own children. To
prevent this, he decided to swallow each as it was born.
Jupiter was the sixth child. His mother covered a stone with
swaddling clothes, and palmed it off on Chronos as his son
Jupiter. In the Island of Crete, the latter was nurtured by
the nymphs Adrastea and Ida, and fed on the milk of the
goat Amalthea.
At maturity, Jupiter was chosen Sovereign of the World
at the Council of the Gods. The name signifies the radiant
light of heaven. In Classic Myths we find that "he was the
supreme ruler of the universe, wisest of the divinities and
most glorious. In the Iliad, he informs the other gods that
their united strength would not budge him; that, on the con
trary, he could draw them, and earth, and the seas to himself,
[238]
Sagittarius and Silicea
and suspend all from Olympus by a golden chain. Throned
in the high, clear heavens, Jupiter was the gatherer of clouds
and snows, the dispenser of gentle rains and winds; the
moderator of light and heat and the seasons; the thunderer
and the wielder of the thunderbolt. Bodily strength and valor
were dear to him and to him were sacred everywhere the
loftiest trees and the grandest mountain peaks. He required
of his worshipers cleanliness of surroundings and person and
heart. Justice was his; his to repay violation of duty to the
family, in social relations, and in the state. Prophecy was
his; and his special messenger was the eagle."
"Jove said, and nodded with his shadowy brows;
Waved on th' immortal head th' ambrosial locks,
And all Olympus trembled at his nod."
Iliad.
"Juno was the wife of Jupiter, and the most worthy of the
goddesses, queenly and ox-eyed, golden sandaled and golden-
throned. Glorious beyond compare was her presence, when
she had harnessed her horses, and driven forth the golden-
wheeled chariot that Hebe made ready, and that the Hours
set aside. She was wedded to Jupiter in the garden of the
gods where ambrosial rivers flowed and where Earth sent
up in honor of the rite a tree of life, heavy with apples golden
like the sunset."
The above quotation is invaluable, as it gives us the mean
ings, qualities and attributes of the sign, as stated in books
on astrology. Jupiter's power to draw all the gods to him
clearly indicates the higher mind as the inevitable conqueror
of all lesser powers, and their enthronement on high. He is
truly Osiris of the Egyptians, and, with Juno or Isis, dwells
in the Garden of Eden. We find that Greek mythology
places them here, as do the Scriptures in dealing with Adam
and Eve. We also find a Tree of Life on which hang golden
apples.
It is evident that all nations and peoples have their sacred
Scriptures which deal with the most intimate secrets. When
these are studied and analyzed, they are all found to be
identical.
It is interesting to note how many words in constant use are
derived from the root words of both Jupiter and Sagittarius.
They furnish us with indubitable proof that their interpreta
tions as given in books on astrology are correct.
[239]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Sagitta means arrow, swift, fleet, sharp, and aimed at a
mark. This is analogous to the higher mind and its processes.
From the root of arrow, the word arrogance is obtained; it
relates to exorbitant pride, exalting one's worth or importance
to an undue degree. As Jupiter is the largest planet, and is
interpreted positively as largess, abundance and generosity,
"the giver of all good things," negatively it is associated with
prodigality and wastefulness. Those who manifest proud
contempt of others, who are insolent, overbearing, sharp and
fault-finding in speech, represent the negative aspect of
Jupiter.
The sagittal stone in an arch is termed the KEY STONE.
It is the voussoir at the center of the crown of an arch, which,
being the LAST SET IN PLACE, IS REGARDED AS
BINDING THE WHOLE TOGETHER. This is anal
ogous to the completion of the forebrain association centers,
which are the first to atrophy in the average individual, and
the last to develop.
We must pause a moment, in our interpretation of words,
to note that, of the three cerebral association centers, the
one in the forehead is the last to develop,
if,
indeed,
it
is
allowed to. As this part of the head allocates with the third,
and last, decan of Aries,
it
is
under the co-rulership of Jupiter
himself, "the giver of all good things." But it must also be
remembered, as we review the chapter on Aries, that Jupiter
can not even develop or arrive at maturity unless he is nurtured
by the nymphs Adrastea and Ida, and
it
is
absolutely necessary
that he be fed on the milk of the goat Amalthea.
Adrastea and Ida are analogous to the pineal and pituitary
glands
in
the cerebrum which are truly the real NURSES of
the human body. They furnish the glandular fluids of positive
and negative character, electrical and magnetic, without which
no physical vehicle can be formed and without which
it
can not
be sustained. The term nymph means
a
bride, or that which
has been recently united, therefore
a
new or FRESH fluid.
It
may be said to relate to lymph, for these glands secrete
albumin.
The fact that Jupiter was said to have been born on
Mt. Olympus, and was nourished
by
a
goat,
is
easy to interpret
from its physiological standpoint, and certainly after studying
the chapter on Scorpio. The electrical center which gives rise
[240]
Sagittarius and Silicea
to the sacral and coccygeal nerves controlling the sexual
glands, is placed within the neural canal or innermost tube of
the spinal canal at the base of the spinal cord proper. It allo
cates with Capricorn, the goat. If this esse or milk is unable
to RISE and return to the Father (Jupiter Pater), the cere
brum, then there is no material with which to develop and thus
awaken the forebrain cells or association center having to do
with INTUITION.
A study of Gray's Anatomy furnishes proof that these cells
are the last to develop and the first to atrophy. Is
it,
then,
any wonder that so many seem satisfied to live the way they
do? When the intuition
is
not functioning, there
is
no way
by which
a
person may be warned. If intuition were even
a
little active, the result of a few forebrain cells receiving
some degree of nutriment, many accidents would be averted.
One's affairs would run more smoothly, the result of more
efficient planning. This would eventually result
in
all the
fortune-tellers being forced out of business. One would begin
to understand his own affairs, and know better what to do than
others could tell him.
How to awaken dormant brain cells
is
a
subject concerning
which much curiosity will be aroused before Neptune has
completed its journey through Virgo, the house of health,
purity, regeneration and illumination.
We find,
in
the science of phrenology,
a
means whereby we
can verify the above statement relative to the forebrain cells.
The competent phrenologist states that the development of
the forebrain indicates whether
a
person
is
a
genius, mediocre
or
a
moron. When two facts announced by two different
savants of related sciences agree,
it
is
conclusive proof of their
correctness.
We find, by studying Gray's Anatomy, that the suture
between the parietal bones of the skull constitutes the sagittal
part of the head. As the top of the head
is
its crown, when
all the cells are chemically and numerically perfect there will
no longer be any danger of these walls falling down. Perfect
material and perfect thought will bind or cement them to
gether forevermore.
Metaphysically interpreted, sagitta means
a
thing having
an analogous part or function. A part or force on which
associated things depend for support.
It
is
certainly true that
mental process of the highest order are essential to the
[241]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
construction and preservation of both human forms and human
affairs.
In Acts 14:12, we find reference to Jupiter. "And they
called Barnabas Jupiter; and Paul, Mercurius, because he was
the chief speaker."
In verse seventeen, there is evidence of Jupiter's connection
with rain: "Nevertheless he left not himself without witness,
in that he did good, and gave us rain from heaven, and fruit
ful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness."
Certain scientists who have "discovered" that there is
nothing to astrology, that the planets have no connection
with any of the afFairs of mankind, would do well to endeavor
to explain why all nations and peoples refer to them in their
sacred writings. The word sagitta is derived from the root
verb SAGIO, which means to perceive quickly, to feel keenly,
all of which relates to mind.
From the root words of both Juno and Jupiter, are obtained
the terms relating to law and religion. Jus is Latin for rights ;
juris-prudence for law. A jurant is one who takes an oath,
who swears to the faithful performance of his duty.
The position of Neptune in Virgo, from which sign it is now
operating SQUARE to Sagittarius, will work for the next
twelve years to purify both religion and law. When the good
law the law of God is obeyed, it constitutes the religious
life.
In this age and time, both religion and law have become so
perverted that the truth behind both has been almost entirely
obliterated. Since Neptune entered Virgo, we have heard
much more in regard to religious disturbances, particularly in
Latin countries, than in the last hundred years. Uranus in
Aries, the upsetter of OLD OPINIONS, is causing the minds
of those who think, to discard any OLD BELIEFS which are
contrary to reason and common sense. The correct interpre
tation of sacred and secret writings is now beginning to be
demanded. Humanity is commencing to realize that it is
responsible for its own salvation, and must therefore look
around, and endeavor to obtain the plan of the process.
We must not make the mistake of pointing to the Catholic
church as the only one where controversy is present, for all
churches are concerned with this housecleaning. None are
interpreting religion from its physiological and chemical
analysis. This must be done before any light will be thrown
[242]
Sagittarius and Silicea
on the subject. Ecclesiastics deal with a mediator exterior to
man, whereas the real mediator actually is within the human
brain, the SPIRIT in man.
Few people realize the true state of affairs in Russia. It is
in reality an Aquarian nation. As such, it will continue to be
forced along humanitarian lines, that of the greatest good
for the greatest number. All false barriers of caste will be
broken down. Nothing can prevent this taking place. Nobility
of character, true worth, simplicity, modesty, and creative
ability, are the true standards of measurement. The quicker
we ourselves realize this, the sooner will our chaos lessen.
If one truly lives in his own sanctuary, abiding in the secret
place of the "Most High," he has no real need to enter any
church constructed by human HANDS.
The real church is the perfected cerebrum. Here one dwells
constantly, and forevermore, in his own special and private
Holy of Holies. As the Scriptures state, "If a man can not
rule his own house (Taurus) how can he TAKE CARE OF
THE CHURCH OF GOD?" (Aries).
Jupiter is the River God, for he stands at the head of the
spinal river Euphrates or Jordan. He is Jupiter Ammon of
the Egyptians, and Bel-Moloch of the Chaldeans. The ancient
Greeks considered him the divine personification of heaven
itself, and the hurler of the lightning rays of thought.
Why did those who designed the first zodiac place
Sagittarius in the ninth division of the circle, opposite
Gemini? As the latter relates to the lower mind, the proper
place for the study of the Higher is at a point opposite.
The hips and thighs, which relate physiologically to
Sagittarius, constitute the ARCH of support in the earthly
part or torso, while the forebrain is its analogy in the heaven
ly, or heaved-up part of man. As stated in the chapter on
Scorpio, this natural arch weakens and eventually becomes
unable to keep the frame erect and strong when sexual
excesses are indulged in.
The hips and thighs also form a natural basin for the
protection of the organs pertaining to excretion; also par
turition and sexual activity. The condition of these organs
naturally depends on whether Jupiter is the bountiful giver
of all good things, or whether he is the prodigal son.
As Imperator he is ruler; as Invictus he is unconquerable;
[243]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
as Opitulus he is helper; as Stator he is supporter, ''guardian
of law, defender of truth and protector of justice and virtue."
"Verospi's statue of Jupiter is in the Vatican; but one of
the seven wonders of the world was the statue of Olympian
Jove, by Phidias, destroyed by fire in Constantinople A.D.
475. It is said that this gigantic statue was nearly sixty feet
high, made of ivory. The throne was of cedar wood, adorned
with ivory, ebony, gold and precious stones. In his right hand
was a golden statue of Victory, and his left hand rested on
a long scepter surmounted by an eagle. The robe of the god
was of gold, and so was his footstool supported by golden
lions. This wonderful work of art was removed to Constanti
nople by Theodosius I." Classic Myths.
There is much in this truly remarkable description which
confirms the interpretation of the nature and purpose of
Sagittarius. It may be termed a symposium of the three fire
signs. The lions are made to serve as the supports of Jove's
footstool. Recalling the interpretation of Leo, it is evident
that the Lion is here the King of the tribe of Judah. It has
become elevated, and is in its kingly place. Therefore the
controlled emotions become the basis or foundation for the
unlimited and positive creation of electrical energy. It has
returned to the Father.
It is said that Hercules used the arrow of Jove to slay the
vulture which was eating the liver of Prometheus. The days
of the full moon were sacred to him, as also was the oak tree.
Encyclopaedia Britannica states that "In this oldest Jupiter
of the Latins and Romans, the god of light and the heaven,
and the god invoked in taking the most solemn oaths, we may
undoubtedly see not only the great protecting deity of the
race, but one, and perhaps the only one, whose worship em
bodies a distinct moral conception. It was in the presence
of his priest that the most ancient and sacred form of
marriage, 'confarreatio,' took place. The Romans chose the
name of Jupiter in almost every case, by which to indicate
the chief deity of the peoples, proving that they continued to
regard him, so long as his worship existed at all, as the god
whom they themselves looked upon as greatest."
It must not be inferred that the Romans or Greeks
worshiped idols. All so-called idols have merely been repre
sentations of that which the people wished to keep in mind.
The golden calf stood for the regenerated animal man. We
[244]
Sagittarius and Silicea
do the same thing, for we have created a tall man wearing
striped trousers of red and white, and otherwise adorned with
stars. We have named him "Uncle Sam" and he represents
the, spirit of Democracy. The statue of Liberty is another
example. England also has her John Bull.
It is a curious fact that the cerebrum, when viewed from the
pages of Gray's Anatomy, very closely resembles the English
walnut. In fact it has been quite common to term one with
unique or rather advanced ideas a "nut." There is also the
expression "look out or the squirrels will get you." Insane
asylums are termed "nut houses," in common vernacular.
Therefore, one is not surprised to find that the English
walnut is termed Jupiter's nut. It is interesting to learn that
the walnut was known in ancient times. Its Latin name was
Juglans Regia, meaning King Jove nut. I venture to say it
was thus named because of its resemblance to the cerebrum,
or two hemispheres of the brain.
As Sagittarius or Higher Mind is also related to speech,
it would be associated, naturally, with the characters which
are used to preserve the words and thoughts of our forebears.
It is curious, but true, that the very first characters were cunei
form, wedge-shaped or arrowheaded.
Thought assuredly follows well-defined grooves down
through the ages, for the reason that each thing has a definite
and thus perpetual meaning.
Dr. Wakeman Ryno says, in Amen the God of the
Amonians : "The Archer Sagitarrius stands with his bow bent
ready to let
fly
an arrow across the river Eridanus, or Phlege-
thon, at the Scorpion (Beelzebub), whose poison tail
is
bent
around the southern end of the Isle of ^Easa, or Circe, of
the Myth of Ulysses. Here on the Cimmerian shores of the
fabled river of Hades, Sagittarius as Chiron or Charon ferries
the Soul (Sol-Sun) over the fiery, starry stream of the
Milky-way.
"The river of Hades
is
that part of the fiery or starry
stream of the Milky-way which
is
below the equator, and
which the Sun passes
in
October and November, represented
by the Scorpion and Sagittarius. This part of the zodiac was
called Hades by the ancient priests of the Sun, or the realm
of the dead (the winter months)."
But there
is
a
much better reason why
it
is
termed Hades or
realm of the dead. The bright and glorious nuclei or Keres
[245]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
from the cerebrum, have become souls in prison, chained
within animal forms.
It is stated, in Smith's Bible Dictionary, that "Antiochus
Epiphanes dedicated the Temple at Jerusalem to the service
of Zeus (Jupiter) A. V." Here we have conclusive proof that
the ancients knew of, and used, the name of Jupiter as anal
ogous to the Almighty Father.
When Prometheus deceived Jupiter (the giver of all good
things), and stole the celestial fire (fluidic electrical energy),
he brought it down to (into) earth (the body), and concealed
it in the narthex. A narthex is a box or receptacle of
unguents, which are ointments for consecration or medicinal
purposes.
The receptacle referred to, is naturally physiological in
character, and much research into esoteric physiology will
prove it to be the glands of Bartholin and, correspondingly,
Cowper, for they are creators of oil (which is an unguent).
Modern science has no definite information relative to the
gland of Bartholin in the female and Cowper in the male, but
they are supposed to furnish a lubricating fluid. They con
tain a yellowish, oily substance, when in a healthy state. This
is a special product. More information will be given in regard
to it in The Truth About Sex and Birth Control.
Decharme writes, relative to iEsculapius stealing fire from
heaven: "Now, according to Greek ideas 'identical in this
with those of the occultists,' this possession forced from
Jupiter, this human trespassing upon the property of the
gods, had to be followed by expiation." It is indeed true that
all have to pay the price, and will so continue until at last the
celestial fire is no longer tampered with, but is free to return
to its true home, its birth place on Mt. Olympus, the
cerebrum.
Mr. Gaskell says of Olympus: "A symbol of the height
of perfection and attainment; or the plane of Atma, the
summit of manifestation."
"Homer was the first to divide the world into five portions.
The three intermediate he has assigned to the three gods;
the two extremes, Olympus the Earth, whereof the one is the
boundary of things below, the other of things above, he has
left common to all and unallotted to any." Plutarch.
When will humanity realize that "immortal, transcendental
facts" on the very highest planes of existence facts which
[246]
Sagittarius and Silicea
will explain the Divine scheme of attainment for man are
concealed in the embryonic cerebral cells? They are there,
waiting, waiting, until the time arrives when humanity will
realize that it has been blindly stealing from self; throwing
away the food of efficiency, and blaming "luck" for lack of
success.
As one ascends a mountain to obtain the first view of the
sun, rising in all its glory and grandeur, so must we endeavor
to center our thoughts in the highest part of our anatomy,
the upper chamber, wherein each may eventually meet his
Lord. Unlike Phaeton, we must guide the horses of mind
away from the REGION OF THE SCORPION. We will
then eventually reach the heights.
Job said "Is not my help in me?"
"And be not conformed to this world, but be ye trans
formed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove
what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God."
Romans 12:2.
Smythe writes, "The allegorical images of Jacob's blessing
have been identified by several writers with the sign of the
Via Solis, whence God, as bow-man, becomes Sagittarius."
Certainly no real student will wish to differ, since God is truly
Divine Mind. Miss Agnes M. Clarke says, "when Egypt
adopted the Greek figures it was with various changes that
effaced its character as a 'circle of living things?
" Most truly
is the physical form a circle of living things, a mass of ever-
productive corpuscles.
Richard Allen, in his Star Names and Their Meanings,
informs us that the arrow of Sagittarius is always aimed at
the scorpion's heart. As the star Antares occupies that
position, it signifies that the scorpion must have a "change
of heart" and no longer seek to do that which it anti-Ares.
Dupuis says that "Sagittarius was shown in Egypt as an
Ibis or Swan, but the Denderah Zodiac has the customary
Archer with the face of a lion added, so making it bi-faced."
Since Leo is placed in trine to Sagittarius, it signifies that the
Higher Mind or intuition is unable to manifest until the lion
has become quiescent, for only thus is it capable of being the
support of the footstool of Jove.
Some of the Semitic names for Sagittarius are : Udgudua
or Smiting sun-face; Yuma-nahri or Day-of-dawn; Papilsak,
Winged-fire-head; Ega, Crown; and Anunitum, Great-god
dess-star.
[247]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
R. Brown, in his Primitive Constellations, states that "An
exceedingly old Babylonian tablet shows the Centaur with
both hands grasping the Wild-beast." And Arator says:
''But his right hand he ever seems to stretch
Before the Altar's circle. The hand grasps
Another creature, very firmly clutched,
The WILD-BEAST ; so the men of old it named."
In Euphratean astrological lore, the original golden seed
of heaven was the Sun. It was seized and swallowed up by
the darkness in the form of different monsters. "Among the
Jews, Sagittarius was the tribal symbol of Ephraim and
Manasseh, from Jacob's last words to their father Joseph, 'his
bow abode in strength.'
"
"Cuneiform inscriptions," says Richard Allen, "designate
Sagittarius as the Strong One, the Giant King of War, and
as the Illuminator of the Great City. Upon some of the
boundary stones of Sippara (Sepharvaim of the Old Testa
ment), a solar city, Sagittarius appears sculptured in full
glory." In Assyria it was always associated with the ninth
month, Kislivu.
"Sagittarius is shown on a coin of Gallienus of about A.D.
260, with the legend Apollini Conservatori; and on those of
King Stephen emblematic of his having landed in England in
1135 when the sun was in this sign." Again we have verifica
tion of the statement that the signs of the zodiac were known
and studied back in the morning of time.
As the body is the "great city," it is evident that the Higher
Mind, typified by the Centaur, is its illuminator. It is by
means of the conflict between the Centaurs and the Lapithes
(analogous to energy and substance) that the arrangement
of matter and the creation of brain cells takes place.
The root of the word Lapithes gives us the word stone
(lapis) and the original meaning of Centaur is a fiery steed.
The Centaur
is,
then, analogous to creative energy.
There
is
a
conflict eternally going on among the corpuscles
of the brain (as well as
in
all other parts of the body), which
may well be termed "the war of the cerebral cells."
It
will
continue until such time as they receive all the material neces
sary to construct chemically perfect corpuscles. Now they
suffer hourly from rapine and murder, because of the ignorance
and thoughtlessness of mankind.
Warfare among nations and peoples, family quarrels, and
[248]
Sagittarius and Silicea
the attraction which any kind of a fight has for the average
person, is entirely due to the inharmonious state of the brain
cells. When they are better supplied with what is needful,
man will no longer be "robbing God," for the Scriptures state
"Can a man rob God? But ye have robbed me in tithes and
offerings."
As "like attracts like" we naturally respond to anything
having a vibration corresponding to that which our brain cells
create. There
is,
then, no immediate prospect of peace, either
among nations or individuals. Differences
in
ideas and opinions
are naturally the result of differences
in
brain power,
in
thought conception. Argument
is
of no avail, and only leads
to still greater confusion and chaos.
The wonder
is,
that conditions are not worse. We are not
astonished that so many die. The surprising thing
is,
that we
live as long as we do. How terribly body and brain are
abused yet kindly Mother Nature struggles on to enable
life to remain
in
the form
a
little longer.
The Centaur interpretation of Sagittarius seems to have
been applied by the ancients to the savage or undeveloped
manifestation of the Higher Mind. The half-animal and
half-human mind
is
like an untamed and vicious horse.
It
must become capable of realizing that the Spirit is the master,
and inevitable conqueror, otherwise the cruel bit (suffering
resulting from experience) will wound the sensitive mouth,
and blood-flecked foam cover the horse's bridle.
It
is
curious, and fascinating, to learn that the physiological
term "hip"
is
derived from the Latin root of Hippo which
means horse. This
is
particularly significant, since the hips and
thighs were archaically assigned to Sagittarius.
There
is
an architectural rule applying to formation of the
hips. "A hip
is
an external angle formed
by
the meeting of
two sloping sides or skirts of
a
roof which have their wall
plates running
in
different directions."
It
should not be diffi
cult to realize that terms used
in
construction work were
originally derived from the plan of the human body. Other
wise, the human brain would not have cognized them, having
no conception of anything exterior unless possessing an inner
prototype from which to pattern.
Indeed, we may be surprised to learn that the human brain
CONTAINS
a
sea-horse, for this interpretation applies to
the hippocampus, which
is
a
curved, elongated eminence of
[249]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
gray matter extending throughout the floor of the descending
horn of the lateral ventricle. As the cerebral substance is
semi-fluidic, it may well be termed "the ocean of thought."
The Bible refers to it as "the sea of glass." Moreover, it is a
physiological fact that the eyes, which are "the windows of
the Spirit," are directly connected with the cerebrum, the optic
nerves actually being considered extensions of the cerebral
substance itself.
When this substance is CLEAR AS CRYSTAL (quartz
or Silicea) then will thought correspond, for no foreign
particles will obstruct the view, and the mirror of mind will
be without dust to confuse its reflections Spiritual Light.
As the word medicine is derived from medeor or medicus,
it means to heal or cure. It is obvious, then, that Hippocrates,
who even today is looked upon as being "the Father of
Medicine," is really the Higher Mind itself.
The Encyclopaedia Britannica states that "he was born,
according to Soranus, in Cos. He was a member of the
family of Asclepiadae and was believed to be a direct descend
ant of ^Esculapius. It is also claimed for him that he was
descended from Hercules. The incidents of his life are
shrouded in uncertain tradition. He was supposed to have
been of a family of priest-physicians. He cast superstition
aside and based the practice of medicine on the principles of
inductive philosophy. Hippocrates based his principle and
practice on the theory of the existence of a spiritual restoring
essence or principle, the VIS DEDICATRIX NATURAE, in
the management of which the art of the physician consisted.
He had acuteness of observation in the manner in which
occurrences of critical days in disease is enunciated."
Nothing is given concerning Soranus. Even the Latin lexi
con mentions it only as "belonging to Sora, the most north
erly town of the Volsci, in Latium." The word "Cos" is
Latin for "any hard, flinty stone." Here we have verification
of the association of flint or quartz with Sagittarius, for
Dr. Carey allocated Silicea with this sign. Flint is a certain
form of quartz or Silicea which is extremely hard and will
emit sparks when struck with steel. As steel is iron, it is evi
dent that there is a very close association between iron or
Ferrum of Pisces and the Silicea of Sagittarius.
Biochemistry teaches us that sharp, clear-cut mental pro
cesses are impossible when Silicea is very deficient. And as
[250]
Sagittarius and Silicea
a full supply of iron must be present in the blood in order to
attract the Spirit-containing oxygen into the circulation, and to
oxygenate the brain cells, the importance of these two salts
in all mental activities must be emphasized.
As stated so many times, Greek mythology furnishes us
with this complete plan expressed in poetical language. In the
story of Pegasus we have an account of the initial appearance
of that esse which is termed "dew" in the Hebrew sacred
Scriptures. "The cranium is filled with crystalline (silicea)
dew." The story goes that "Pegasus was the winged-horse
which produced the fountain HIPPOCRENE (horse foun
tain) on Mt. Helicon (sacred to Apollo 'the sun,' and the
muses), by a kick of his hoof against a flint." Pegasus was also
"the winged-horse without whose aid it was impossible for
Bellerophon to slay the monster called Chimaera."
The word Chimaera is Latin for goat. But it seems to
have been a combination of several animals, which accounts
for its terrible appearance. It was a fire-breathing monster,
with the fore parts of a lion, the middle of a goat and the
hind parts of a dragon. Bellerophon means "the slayer of the
dragon or serpent," while the archaic symbol of Capricorn was
originally part goat and part fish.
Pegasus was sacred to the Muses (goddesses of music,
poetry and the fine arts). It must be remembered that the
feminine always signifies material. Naturally FINE material
is required in all FINE ARTS.
E. C. Brewer, in his Dictionary of Phrase and Fable, gives
us an interesting interpretation of Pegasus: "The inspiration
of poetry, or, according to Boiardo, the horse of the Muses.
A poet speaks of his Pegasus, as 'My Pegasus will not go
this morning,' meaning his brain will not work. 'I am mount
ing Pegasus,' i. e., going to write poetry. 'I am on my
Pegasus,' i. e., engaged in writing verses."
He also adds: "Pegasus or Pegasos, according to classic
mythology, was the winged horse on which Bellerophon rode
against the Chima;ra. When the Muses contended with the
daughters of Pieros (duty, or that which is due, a right by
possession), Helicon rose heavenward with delight; but
Pegasus gave it a kick, stopped its ascent, and brought out
of the mountain the soul-inspiring waters of Hippocrene."
It is obvious that the latter refers to the semi-fluidic
cerebral substance, which is a necessity in the creation of all
fine arts.
[251]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Greek mythology informs us that Bellerophon was sub
jected to great trials and labors, but by the aid of Pegasus
was able to triumph over all. The winged horse Pegasus is
analogous to the balanced mind, while the common symbol
used in astrology for Sagittarius plainly indicates the three
mental stages which must become unified. These two symbols
enable the student more thoroughly to analyze the subject.
It is interesting to note that the root word COS, which
means any hard, flinty stone, is also the root of the word
cosmic, which means the terrestrial or earthly world.
Many words in common use have been derived from the
root of the word Pegasus. The consideration of a few of
these will throw further light on Sagittarius, as well as the
accurate method by which character may be analyzed, and the
idiosyncrasies of those born under the different signs, accu
rately determined.
The word PEG is an interesting study. It means a pin, or
piece of metal or wood, to hold things, to fasten them to
gether. It also means a point of attainment, a step or degree ;
to hit or hammer, to work diligently, to labor constantly.
Pego means pegging or beating literally, to be persistent. It
will be recalled that the beating or striking of the hoof of
Pegasus on the flint stone resulted in the fountain of thought
welling forth.
A curious correspondence is found in the word NAG,
meaning HORSE. The verb to nag means to annoy by petty
fault-finding, to irritate, to fret, to persistently urge, or scold,
to be irritable and ill-natured. It is indeed true that those
born in this sign are persistent in what they do. It is equally
true that many are chronic naggers. Their sharp words are
like mental pegs, constantly driven into the brain of the indi
vidual they are directed to, inevitably resulting in irritation
and argument.
In Sanskrit mythology, Naga was a serpent. The Nagas
were a race of human-faced serpents. The word nigger or
nicker is an archaic expression signifying the neighing of a
horse, while the old term NAGES means the buttocks, which
allocate with the hips and thighs.
How many are sufficiently informed, relative to the subject
of anatomy, to realize that the lower part of the lumbar region
of the spine is called the cauda equina, or tail of the horse?
Not only does anatomy verify astrology, but it proves it eso
[252]
Sagittarius and Silicea
terically, through the fact that the roots of the upper sacral
nerves (which are of great length because the spinal cord does
not extend beyond the first lumbar vertebra) form a bundle
within the spinal canal. This, when opened and spread out,
is likened to a horse's tail. Lumbar means loin, which adds
another verification to our list.
A nagus is a skinflint (silicea) or miser a niggard. In
stone cutting, nig means to dress (a stone) with a sharp-
pointed (arrow) hammer. To hammer away, is to keep
pegging. One "RIDES a hobby," meaning a subject or plan
to which one is constantly referring. This constitutes
NAGGING. The word hobby is derived from the Middle
English word Hobyn, meaning a nag or active horse.
Mr. Mattieu Williams, the author of The Fuel of the Sun
says of Jupiter, the ruler of this sign: "Recent observations
justify us in regarding this as a miniature sun, with an external
envelope of cloudy matter, apparently of partially-condensed
water, but red-hot, or probably still hotter within. His
vaporous atmosphere is evidently of enormous depth, and
the force of gravitation being on his visible outer surface two-
and-a-half times greater than that on our Earth's surface,
the atmospheric pressure, in descending below this visible sur
face, must soon reach that at which the vapor of water would
be brought to its critical condition. Therefore we may infer
that the oceans of Jupiter are neither frozen, liquid or gaseous
water, but are oceans or atmospheres of critical water.
"As the whole mass of Jupiter is 300 times greater than
that of the Earth, and its compressing energy towards the
center proportional to this, its materials, if similar to those
of the earth, and no hotter, would be considerably more dense,
and the whole planet would have a higher specific gravity;
but we know by the movements of its satellites that, instead of
this, its specific gravity is less than one-fourth of that of the
Earth. This justifies the conclusion that it is intensely hot;
for even hydrogen, if cold, would become denser than Jupiter
under such pressure.
"As all elementary substances may exist as solids, liquids,
or gases, or critically, according to the conditions of tempera
ture and pressure, I am justified in hypothetically concluding
that Jupiter is neither a solid, a liquid nor a gaseous planet; but
a critical planet, or an orb composed internally of associated
elements in a critical state and surrounded by a dense atmos
[253]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
phere of their vapors and those of some of their compounds,
such as water."
A careful study of Mr. Williams' logic proves that the
"MIND STUFF," which "the giver of all good things"
bestows on mortals, is truly the magnet which attracts the
electrical energy of thought. Thought at times has the power
literally to sear the brain with anguish. The Higher Mind,
the conscience, truly seems to SPEAK IN A VOICE OF
THUNDER.
The "Critical point" which Mr. Williams mentions, refers
to that state, condition or degree where a thing changes,
merging into a different presentation. In other words, it is
a point of transition, a point at which the gaseous and liquid
conditions of a primary substance merge into each other; that
is to say, when it is at its critical temperature and pressure.
The pressure necessary to raise a substance in its liquid form
to the boiling point, is the same as the critical temperature
which will just liquify a gas. All of the foregoing is analogous
to the CRITICAL POWER OF THOUGHT, WHICH
ENABLES IT TO RAISE OR LOWER ITS OWN
VIBRATIONS. Thought, substance, and mental power, are
all of a CRITICAL nature.
It is obvious that Jupiter alone can hurl thunderbolts from
Mt. Olympus, the home of the gods. Thunderbolts are truly
arrows of thought.
It is very apropos, at this point, again to refer to the
Scriptural injunction "Be ye transformed by the renewing of
your minds."
Richard Allen informs us that the passage of the Sun
through Sagittarius covers approximately 8.38 days. This is
even less than the Scorpio period. These two facts serve to
verify the cosmic embryo chart in this book.
Mr. G. A. Gaskell's metaphysical interpretation of this sign
is splendid. He says: "It is a symbol of the ninth period of
the cycle of life, in which the lower mind is perfected through
evolution, and therefore 'dies.' The Higher Self seated on
the intelligence (horse) destroys with the 'arrow' of the Spirit
the lower qualities, thus enabling the lower consciousness to
rise to the higher mind."
Good as the above statement
is,
it
is
evident that the
chemical explanation of the CRITICAL state of mental sub
[254]
Sagittarius and Silicea
stance, the pia mater (tender mother) of thought, is needed
completely to clarify it.
"Dionysius proclaims: 'The Divine Goodness, this our great
Sun, enlightens, nourishes, perfects, renews.' Even the pure
can thus be made purer still. 'He, the Good, is called spiritual
light; he cleanses the mental vision of the very angels; they
taste, as it were, the light.' All this imagery goes back, in
the first instance, to Proclus. For Proclus put in parallel 'sun'
and 'God,' and 'to be enlightened' and 'to be deified' makes all
purifying forces to coalesce in the activity of the Sun-God,
Apollo Katharsios, the Purifier, who everywhere unifies multi
plicity .... purifying the entire heaven and all living things
throughout the world; and describes how 'from above, from
his super-heavenly post, APOLLO SCATTERS THE
ARROWS OF ZEUS his rays upon all the world.' " F.
von Hugel, Mystical Element, Vol. II, p. 93.
Mr. Gaskell also quotes from Mundaka Upanishad, II:
"Having taken the Upanishad as the bow, as the great
weapon, let him place on it the arrow, sharpened by devotion !
Then having drawn it with a thought directed to that which
is,
hit the mark,
O
Friend, namely, that which
is
IN
DESTRUCTIBLE
!
Om
is
the bow, the Self is the arrow,
Braham
is
called the aim.
It
is
to be hit by
a
man who
is
not
thoughtless, and then as the arrow becomes one with the
target, he will become one with Brahman."
Mr. Gaskell's analysis of the above Sanskrit quotation is:
"The soul
is
directed to rely upon the Word of God,
i.
e., the
expression of Truth within; and determine the will
in
accord
ance with the same. Then, with the mind aspiring toward
the Highest, the soul
is
required to rest upon the Divine
Reality which underlies the illusions of thought and sense.
The expression of the indwelling Spirit (Om)
is
the energy
outpoured
in
the soul; the spiritual Ego
is
the will, and union
with the Higher Self
is
the aim. Union
is
to achieve by the
mind, which
is
above the lower mind (thoughtless) and then
as the will becomes one with the aim, so the lower self merges
into the Higher Self."
There are many references
in
the Scriptures to the word
arrow. In Psalms 45:5 we find the following: "Thine
arrows are rharp
in
the heart of the king's enemies; whereby
the people fall under thee." And
in
Psalms 64:7 are these
words: "But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; sudden
[255]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
ly shall they be wounded." No one can free himself from
the arrow of conscience.
As Sagittarius is the ninth sign, it is "the number of per
fection and completeness. Nine, which is three squared, refers
to the attainment of perfection of the three lower planes."
G. A. Gaskell.
It is obvious that the attainment of chemical perfection
(earthly) results automatically in perfection on all planes.
"Nine days through the army went the arrows of the god
(Apollo) ; but on the tenth, Achilles called the people to an
assembly." Iliad Bk. 1.
"Yea, as a horse that bears to the gods; that which conveys
to the gods is indeed the mind, for it is the mind which chiefly
conveys the wise man to the gods." Sata. Brah., S. B. of E.
"Man does not rightly know the way to the heavenly world,
but the horse does rightly know it." Ibid., 13 :2, 3, I.
"An endeavor is made by the sorcerers to have the babe
(Zoroaster) trampled to death by the horses, but the leading
horse stands over the child and prevents it from perishing."
Life of Zoroaster. The Zoroastrians worshiped fire (Aries),
and their story of the babe is the same as the Scriptural
account of the infant Jesus.
Dr. Carey allocated Silicea with Sagittarius. It has been
explained that Silicea is quartz. Flint, which has been utilized
to produce sparks for fires from time immemorial, is a form
of it. It constitutes a large part of the earth's crust. It does
not occur free in nature and therefore must be separated by
chemical means.
In its pure and crystallized form, it is rock crystal or quartz.
In Inorganic Chemistry, we find that it stiffens the stems of
cereal grains, and is also found in animal tissues. It occurs
often in the form of hexagonal prisms, crowned by six-sided
pyramids. As the triangle is the symbol of FIRE it will easily
be seen how correct Dr. Carey's allocation is. No matter
how small the particles of Silicea are broken up, all take the
triangular form which
is,
of course, analogous to the arrow
head.
It
is
a
scientific fact that practically all materials (and
some say all) crystallize. When such
is
the case, the crystals
may be easily seen. Quartz crystals are said to be the only
ones not visible.
Domenico Guglielmini (Padova, 1706) asserted that the
[256]
Sagittarius and Silicea
crystals of each salt had a shape of their own with the plane
angle of faces always the same. Modern scientists state that
the angles between corresponding faces of all crystals of the
same chemical substance, are always the same, and are char
acteristic of the substance. It is obvious, then, that the chem
ical element allocating with a certain zodiacal sign, naturally
associates with it in order to accomplish a certain definite
work in the body of the universe and of man.
Nearly all of the mineral salts crystallize under the hexakis-
octahedron form. They have six scalene angles and forty-
eight faces. This is the greatest number of faces possible for
any simple form in crystals.
It is very interesting to note that Calcium fluoride crystals
are used by opticians in the construction of certain lenses. It
will be recalled that Calcium fluoride is the Cancer sign salt.
As that sign is ruled by the Moon, it has a great deal to do
with the brain, and hence, the eyes. Lack of this salt causes
cataracts.
Calcium, Potassium and Silicea crystals rotate a beam of
polarized light transmitted along the triad axis. Six kinds
of primitive forms have been found in crystals. The older
optical glasses, known as ordinary crown and flint glasses, are
all of the nature of pure silicates, the basic constituents in the
case of crown glass being lime, soda and lime, or potash
(kali), or a mixture of both. Sometimes Magnesium is in
cluded. Manufacturers of glass inform us that a high Silicea
content tends toward hardness and chemical stability. It is
exactly for this reason that Silicea is used in making mortar.
It is evident that the gem allocating with Sagittarius is the
rock crystal.
Dr. Carey says of Silicea: "A deficiency of Silicea in the
connective tissue between the cerebrum and the cerebellum
produces a mental condition in which thinking is difficult."
It is clear that there is insufficient FLINT upon which
Pegasus' hoofs may strike. Therefore one is unable to woo
the Muses.
In some of these chapters, I have referred to the use of
slang phrases in which great truths are concealed. One in
common use some years ago (and still occasionally heard)
is "You have no sand" meaning no mental stamina. Since
sand is nearly all silicea this expression is seen to be quite
appropriate. Some occult works state that, as the cerebrum
[257]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
develops, very fine particles of mineral substance collect in
the pineal gland.
Silicea is man's surgeon (the only absolutely safe one), his
physical spade and electrical insulator. As it is not a con
ductor of electricity, its use as an insulator is invaluable.
The tiny particles of this salt travel here and there through
out the body, pushing in and around the cells congested with
waste matter, actually digging it up, loosening it and pushing
it on before them. These tiny but very active surgeon-work
men finally reach the surface with the heteroplasm or pus. If
waste products are unable to follow natural channels of elim
ination, they do the next best thing. They take the avenues
of least resistance. This is the cause of fistulas appearing
around the rectum. Nature is sending her insistent message
for Silicea, and all three Calcium combinations, and they must
be taken intensively for many months.
Red eyelids constitute an outstanding modality which indi
cates need of Silicea. Also redness of the edges of the nostrils.
There will be accompanying soreness. Other modalities are:
acne, angry-red pimples; small red pimples on the scalp. When
neither hot nor cold applications bring relief, and when one
perspires very little, this salt is required. It is needed in con
nection with Ferrum, Kali mur and Kali sulph to break up a
"cold." Large doses taken in hot water, in connection with
a good hot bath, will break up a cold in short order if taken
as soon as observed. It cleans out the pores. Naturally one
must stop eating, and it is also necessary that the intestinal
passage be thoroughly cleaned.
Some of the many symptoms arising from insufficient
Silicea are: mental abstraction; despondency and disgust with
life; lumps or nodules on the scalp; falling of hair or splitting
of hair ends; sties on the eyelids; lachrymal fistula; boils and
cystic tumors around the ears; cataract; dullness of hearing,
with swelling and catarrh of the eustachian tubes (daily
injections of Silicea are also needed); caries of the bones;
mastoid process; catarrh, with discharge of thick, yellow
matter; fetid, offensive discharge; caries and necrosis of the
bojies of face or jaw; gum-boils; pyorrhea; hardening of the
tongue; ulcers on the tongue; ulceration of the throat; tonsil-
itis; abscess of the liver; suppuration of the kidneys; urine
loaded with pus and mucus; chronic syphilis; prostatitis;
chronic gonorrhea; leucorrhea; hard lumps in the breasts;
[258]
Sagittarius and Silicea
fistulous ulcers; tuberculosis; pneumonia; bronchitis; neglected
injuries, festering and threatening to suppurate; hip-joint dis
ease; carbuncles; fetid perspiration of feet; obstinate neural
gia, occurring at night, when neither heat nor cold gives
relief; copious night sweats; insufficient perspiration; sleep
lessness from orgasm of blood; jerking of limbs during sleep,
etc., etc.
Symptoms are always worse at night and during the full .
moon, also worse in open air. They decrease in a warm room.
He who lives in the Higher Mind is insulated from all
danger. The crystal-clear esse, the heavenly dew-drops, reflect
without obstruction. Intuition is keen and clear-cut. He judges
instantly and accurately. The arrow of thought flies straight
to the mark.
The arrow of intuition cuts one entirely off from all that is
base, unclean and unworthy. The Higher Mind is the bridge
over which each one must cross to enter into paradise. The
Higher Mind is Pegasus the horse, clothed with the wings
of the eagle.
Guru Nanak says, in The Sikh Religion, Vol. I, by
Macauliffe; "Let a man take the five arrows (the five
virtues), put them on the bow of his brain, and KILL
DEATH." What a stupendous and true admonition !
Max Miiller quotes the following from Selections from
Buddha, which is splendidly apropos, linking up, as it does,
the signs Aries and Sagittarius :
"My mind is now athirst and longing for the draught of
the fountain of sweet DEW, saddle then my horse, and quick
ly bring it here. I WISH TO REACH THE DEATH
LESS CITY."
And matchless Shakespeare also knew the secret, as his
words prove :
"Mount, eagle, to my palace crystalline!"
[259]
Chapter X
THE ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF CAPRICORN
AND CALCIUM PHOSPHATE
"Janus am I; oldest of Potentates;
Forward I look, and backward and below;
I count, as god of avenues and gates
The years that through my portals come and go."
Longfellovfs Poet's Calendar.
HE Sun has now reached the southern "gate to
heaven," from whence it must make ready to ascend.
It is the goat, Capricorn, waiting at the foot of the
mountain to begin its long climb.
From approximately December 21 to January 21, the sun
is transiting the zodiacal sign Capricorn, and the nature of
the work accomplished during this period pertains rather
more to January than to December; for two weeks of the
former, and only one of the latter, are affected.
January is derived from the Roman word Janus, who was
an ancient Italian deity. "He was the god of all beginnings
and who took precedence of all other gods. He was the
Ancient of Days. He presided over the beginning of human
life, of the day, of the agricultural year, over gateways and
openings," all reference works inform us.
Under his archway the Roman armies marched to war.
This archway in the Forum, afterwards replaced by a Temple
with double doors, was closed only in times of absolute peace.
In Hebrew the word Janum means slumber.
There is a mine of information available in the above state
ments. As Saturn is the ruler of Capricorn, its negative inter
pretation is Satan, who stands in the doorway of the Temple.
He is the tempter who endeavors to stop those who would
enter therein. Those who aspire to enter the sacred place
have produced the mental vibrations causing the aspiration.
In other words, they have not lost, or become deficient in, the
MATERIAL necessary to produce these higher vibrations.
They will succeed in effecting an entrance if Satan is unable
to make them "look back."
[260]
Capricorn and Calcium Phosphate
Here it must be explained that the god Janus is pictured as
having two faces looking in opposite directions. One face is
that of an old man; the other, that of a youth. Therefore the
necessity for the double doors of the Temple, for one opens
into the future, while through the other one may still gaze
into the past. One must decide which he will do. If past
lessons have been sufficiently severe, and the prodigal son has
learned them, the power of the tempter will have been lost.
Then one is able to look in utter astonishment at the figure
standing there. It has absolutely changed it has taken on
the form and the features of the CHRIST. Transmutation has
been achieved, and one has at last entered into the STRAIT
GATE WHICH IS STRAIGHT. "Enter ye in at the
STRAIT gate, for wide is the gate that leadeth to destruction,
and many there be which go in thereat;
"Because STRAIT is the gate, and narrow is the way,
which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it." Matt.
7:13 and 14.
"And David said unto Gad, I am in a great STRAIT; let
us fall now into the hands of the Lord; for his mercies are
great; and let me not fall into the hand of man." II Kings
24:14.
The straight gate opens into the "strait," which is a narrow
passage connecting two bodies of fluid. It seems to wind
around itself like a spiral stairway, or the curves in the horns
of the goat. Capricorn is at the lower end, the entrance,
while at the summit, or mountain top, is Aries. The body of
fluid at the bottom is that of procreation; the body of fluid
at the top is that of creation and recreation. It is obvious
that one who seeks to recreate himself, aspires to fall into
the hands of the Lord and not into the hands of man.
One of the popular fables of Greek mythology is the story
of Jupiter, who was born on Mt. Olympus and suckled by the
goat Amalthea. Pater Jupiter, or the Giver of all Good
Things, would actually starve to death if the goat ceased to
climb the mountain with his food.
This same mythology informs us that Nature was sym
bolized in the past by the figure of the goat-man whose name
was Pan. Its esoteric meaning is FEEDER or nutriment.
Pan is the root of many interesting words such as pantry
(the place where food is kept), pan, a receptacle for contain
ing food, water or any substance; also a process used in
[261]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
separating gold from sand. It is found in the word panacea,
which is a "cure-all." Food may rightly be considered as
the means of healing all diseases, since it contains the salts
or mineral substances required by the cells of the body.
It was originally intended to do this; but, for many reasons,
this has become impossible. Gluttony, or living to eat,
has replaced the plan of eating to live. In addition, the soil
in different parts of the country has become so depleted that
it is no longer possible to grow chemically perfect food. A
third reason is the inability of the organs of digestion and
assimilation to take care of the food.
Pan means ALL, while panis is Latin for bread. The
Scriptures state that Jesus is "the BREAD OF LIFE," and
they also refer to the LIVING BREAD which COMES
DOWN from heaven (Aries cerebrum). When this nutri
ment, or bread, is not used in PRO-creation or wasted, it may
be laid on the table in the "upper chamber" and become the
LORD'S SUPPER. This is the true explanation of the Scrip
tural statement.
Pan was termed the god of shepherds. As a shepherd is
one who cares for sheep, or other flocks, it has a very esoteric
interpretation. It must be recalled that this sign (Capricorn)
is one of the four gates of heaven, out of which Spirits come,
and into which they return. As Aries is the gate from which
they come, Cancer is the gate through which Spirit enters
into corpuscles, in forming the cells of the body. Libra is the
gate of decision, the balance point which decides whether
SPIRIT (ensouled in the corpuscles) WILL BE STRONG
ENOUGH TO GO DOWN INTO THE PIT, THE
GATE OF CAPRICORN, AND COME UP OUT OF IT
go down into hell, remain three days, and ON THE
THIRD DAY RISE AGAIN.
The above are familiar words to readers of the Scriptures,
but only astrology and physiology can explain them. The
Sun, at this time of the year, is at its lowest declination it
seems actually to disappear below the earth. This occurs as
the Sun enters the sign Capricorn. THREE DAYS AFTER,
IT ENTERS THE THIRD DEGREE OF THE SIGN,
WHICH DEGREE ALLOCATES WITH AQUARIUS
AND THE SIGN OF THE SON OF MAN. NATUR
ALLY JESUS IS BORN AT THIS TIME.
This is the period of the year when, if one had accom
[262]
Capricorn and Calcium Phosphate
plished the task of allowing Jupiter to be fed (himself auto
matically taking the Holy Sacrament) the Divine Babe, the
matrix of a new man, would be created within. But again,
each one must WORK OUT HIS OWN SALVATION.
It IS work!
The analysis of these two and one-half degree points will
reveal everything concerning man and the universe. The
twenty-fifth of December was the correct date chosen for the
birth of Jesus, for the very good reason that at no other time
can the proper creative vibration be produced.
As the carnal man disappears forever, when the Divine Son
is born, it is natural that Greek mythology should thus ex
press it: "Later, Pan came to be regarded as a representative
of all Greek gods, and of Paganism itself. Indeed, according
to an early Christian tradition, when the heavenly host an
nounced the birth of Christ (Jesus) a deep groan, heard
through the isles of Greece, told that great Pan was dead,
that the dynasty of Olympus was dethroned, and several
deities sent wandering in cold and darkness."
The earnest student will realize the irrefutable fact that
the three days which creative energy spends in "hell," refer
to the glands in the sacral region having to do with pro
creation, in other words the sexual glands. For here the
corpuscles are changed into ANIMAL SEED. Thus a state
of torment, misery and anguish results for the cabined Spirit,
until such time as the long task of separating the human
corpuscle from the animalized corpuscle begins. This is the
Great Work and is referred to in the Scriptures as "SEPA
RATING THE SHEEP FROM THE GOATS."
As the real meaning of hell is TO CONCEAL, it verifies
the above statement. The Divine Fire, and Celestial Esse, go
down, and are concealed in the lower regions, which corres
pond cosmically to that period of darkness and coldness
termed Winter. Winter is the season of the year when the sun
shines MOST OBLIQUELY. Summer is the period of the
year when the sun is directly overhead, which causes the rays
to be hottest. It is the fire which iEsculapius stole from heaven
and chained to earth.
It will be well to turn to the chart of The Cosmic Embryo,
in this book, and note that the above statement relative to the
rays of the sun in Winter being most oblique, furnishes further
proof of the chart's correctness. Note that the path of the
[263]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Sun, under the vibration of Saturn, forms an absolutely
oblique line from corner to corner, across that part of the
heaven assigned to Capricorn.
It has been previously stated that, under the archway of
Janus, the Roman armies marched to war, but that the gates
were closed when there was absolute peace. This obviously
refers to something out of the ordinary, since one would infer
that any city gate would be opened at times, and would cer
tainly not be closed in times of peace, but for protection in
times of turmoil. It has a physiological interpretation.
The three decans of the zodiacal sign Capricorn allocate
accurately with the first three vertebrae of the sacrum. The
word sacrum is derived from the Latin sacer, meaning sacred,
holy, consecrated. Recalling the fact that it is here where
iEsculapius chained the Divine Fire, one understands why it
has been given the name of sacrum. The CREATIVE FIRE
of Aries (cerebrum) "falling from heaven" has become the
PROCREATIVE FIRE.
Reviewing the information given in the previous chapters,
one sees that this fire was never originally intended to be
"chained" to earth (the earthly or carnal part). To be
"chained" means to be unable to move away from the place.
If the fire were not thus confined, it would be free AGAIN
TO ASCEND and thus CIRCULATE in the body. Circula
tion is made impossible when the lower mind refuses to, or is
unable to, raise its vibrations to those of the Higher. Freeing
this energy or Serpent Power, and its allocating substance,
enables it to RETURN TO THE FATHER. These two,
being originally the product or progeny of the FATHER
(cerebrum), must return and "become one with Him."
As stated many times, the student should make a study of
the parts of the body under consideration. Thus he will find,
in this case, that the sacrum and sacral vertebrae are the points
of origin (within the spinal cord) of those nerves which form
the sacral plexus, and which, in connection with the coccygeal
nerves, control the functions of the sexual glands.
Humanity is not "bound" or in the clutches of any unseen
being called Satan, but is hypnotized and enthralled by its
passion for sensation. It will eventually, however, reach the
heights when each and every one has "lifted up the ser
pent in the wilderness." Scorpio will have become the
[264]
Capricorn and Calcium Phosphate
FEATHERED OR WINGED SERPENT. Man will have
ceased to be a centaur and will have mounted his Pegasus.
As this sign is said to pertain to beginnings (initial move
ments), gates, etc., since Capricorn is one of the four gates
of heaven, the reason why armies pass out of this gate should
be obvious. The armies refer to the RAPACIOUS SPER
MATOZOA. It is a physiological fact that they represent
countless hordes. WHEN THESE CEASE TO PASS OUT,
THE GATE OR OPENING OUT OF WHICH THEY
PASS WILL AUTOMATICALLY CLOSE. We under
stand, at last, why it is never shut except in times of ABSO
LUTE PEACE.
The body is a "house divided against itself" therefore it
contains warring corpuscles the procreative germ cells, for
the SPIRIT within each one bitterly rebels against its martyr
dom.
Ancient literature teems with this story. It should be plain
to readers that the peculiar method of its wording is sufficient
evidence that it refers wholly to the human body.
In the light of the above information, it is obvious why
Janus "presides over the beginning of human life" which is
creation.
From the word pan, we derive brain-pan, which is the skull.
The name Saturn allocates with brain-pan, for it is separated
into Sat, which is a Latin word meaning enough or sufficient,
and from which the word satiate (therefore full) is derived.
An urn is a receptacle, pan, or pitcher for holding something.
In ancient times it was used to hold the ashes of the dead.
Since mineral salts are termed ash, it is obvious that the urn
of Saturn (the Ancient of Days) held all the salts essential
to life, before that god "fell from heaven." These are neces
sary in order to satisfy the need of creative energy. No one
wishes to have his brain-pan become a funeral urn.
How a thing will "pan" out, is analogous to Saturn's natural
power for rendering judgment on it. The law of cause and
effect is here considered. Saturn is said to withhold from a
person the result looked for, or desired, when that person
has not actually earned it. It is also said that Saturn will
pour into one's lap the fruits of legitimate work. But it must
be forever realized that Saturn demands the very last farthing
of what is due. When it is supplied, one is free of all bonds
and restriction, for there is no longer any danger involved.
[265]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Without the vibration termed Saturn, in Nature, nothing
could HOLD together. Cohesion would not exist. Saturn
binds, and therefore limits within a certain radius, in order
to create STABILITY. This implies support, a foundation.
The URN in the hands of Aquarius, the Heavenly Man.
is Saturn himself, for it stands for labor and the FRUITS of
that labor. Saturn is within each one. When the wholly
natural vibrations of the cosmic Saturn find the corresponding
material in the human body, then, and then only, will work in
that body be properly executed. When King Saturn enters
his kingdom, seeking to accomplish kingly work therein, and
finds his material lacking, what is the result? Naturally the
work can not be done. There is no other logical answer.
Calcium phosphate is Saturn's own particular material.
One of its three special uses is to form the bones constituting
the framework of the body. The foundation of any building
is constructed first, and
is,
therefore, the oldest part of that
building. This allocates with the nature of Saturn and his
esoteric name of "Ancient of Days." He represents the begin
ning.
The bony framework of the body
is
its foundation.
It
is
well known that
it
remains
in
the grave for a
long time before
it
is
converted into dust, its original particles. Saturn, then,
is
the MASTER MASON. When the initiatory process
is
perfected, Saturn has regained the mountain top with
a
FULL URN. The skull
is
the positive urn, while the pelvis
is
the negative urn, both being necessary for the function of
circulation. As the fourteenth card of the Tarot pictures the
essentials of the Great Work, we see the Spirit of Life (which
is
really Saturn) pouring the Water of Life from one urn into
another WITHOUT SPILLING A DROP. And as the four
teenth card also symbolizes the letter N, which
is
literally
Jesus,
in
Hebrew (the Divine Fruit of
a
regenerated body),
the analogy
is
perfect.
To initiate means to GO-AT
a
thing, to make
a
beginning.
It
is
said in astrological lore that Capricorn
is
the sign of the
initiate. As Janus has two faces,
it
is
evident that
a
"right
about face"
is
analogous to taking
a
new step, and therefore
entering, as
it
were, another door. So
it
is,
that one who has
thought only of the lower or negative URN, at last realizes
its utter poverty and the fact that he has been the prodigal
son long enough. He returns,
in
thought, to his FATHER,
[266]
Capricorn and Calcium Phosphate
and thereafter begins to make more material returns. Thus
he is truly an ENTERED APPRENTICE, and prayerfully
promises to endeavor, with all his strength, to BECOME A
GOOD MASON, therefore AN ACCURATE BUILDER.
He no longer tears down.
The true interpretation of Freemasonry
is,
that
it
is
a
physio-chemical process which will ultimately result
in
the
metaphysical life. This, and this alone,
is
the TRUE
SCIENCE OF CHRISTIANITY. Matter
is
teeming with
life, and life can not manifest without matter.
One born with the Sun
in
Capricorn, may therefore be an
initiate or still be "two-faced," which means to be CAPRI
CIOUS. This word
is
derived from the same root as Capella,
which
is
the Latin name for the goat star. Caprice
is
"a
movement of the mind as unaccountable as the springs and
bounds of
a
goat," says Webster, while to caper means to
frisk or prance about.
The Encyclopedia Britannica says of the goat: "Properly
the name of the well-known domesticated European ruminant,
which has for all time been regarded as the emblem of every
thing that
is
evil,
in
contradistinction to the sheep which
is
the symbol of excellence and purity."
Is
it
logical, then, for anyone to scoff at the fact that
astrology has, from time immemorial, recognized and made
use of the symbol of the goat?
It
has allocated the lamb or
sheep with Aries, that part of the body having the highest
vibration the THINKER, the Fire of Life, while the nega
tive pole, where humanity has kept that Fire chained, has been
associated with the goat.
In Mediaeval bestiary lore, the goat
is
the symbol of lechery
or lustfulness. Shakespeare refers to
a
man of this nature,
in
the following terms
:
"Thou damned and luxurious mountain goat."
It
must be emphasized that this
is
the negative interpreta
tion of this sign, for all signs have both positive and negative
phases, the unregenerate representing one, and the entrants
into the conditions of apprenticeship the other. The latter
have young faces, while those worn with excesses may still be
young
in
years but have aged faces.
The two Pans
in
the Scales of Libra allocate with Saturn.
Both must be FULL OF SEED. The knee-pans are intimate
ly
associated with Saturn or Pan. One of the branches of
[267]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
the sciatic nerve ramifies to each knee pan, and reflex action
is absent when the sacral center has become partially para
lyzed because of sexual excesses. The word knee is janu in
Sanskrit, and analogous to Janus and January. This is the
reason for the knees being associated with Capricorn. It is
true that this animal may kneel in feeding, but the first reason
here given is the legitimate one.
Panathenaea was the name given by the ancient Greeks to
two celebrations sacred to Pan, the goat, and Athena (wis
dom), or the wise goat. The lesser was held every year,
while the greater took place once in four years. The prizes
for the victors consisted of urns of olive oil. This is analogous
to Virgo the virgin, and also to Athena or wisdom. It is the
basis for the expression "THE OIL OF GLADNESS." To
be wise is to be happy and at peace.
Referring to the fact that in Hebrew the word Janus means
slumber, or inactivity, we find this to be analogous to the fire
chained to earth. The root of the word slumber is slum,
which means a foul back street of a city, a low, squalid
neighborhood. This is analogous to the lower part of the
body, and the gates or openings, over which Janus or Capri
corn is said to preside. The openings in the lower part of
the body are for the passage of excrement and this region
may well be termed the slums. A feeling of intense repug
nance arises when one realizes that the procreative fluid finds
exit via one of these passages.
To sleep means to be in a state of inactivity, sloth or supine-
ness, caused by the cerebral nerves failing to keep the con
scious part of the physical machinery at work. They have
themselves become reduced in electrical power. Thus the
nerves of the eyes (the electric eyes) become weary, and the
eyes close. The pulley nerves contract, and let fall the curtains
of sleep. In contradistinction to this state, due to loss of elec
trical power and vitality, is the vital, unwearied condition of
the optic thalamus or All-Seeing Eye, as stated in Psalms
121:4: "He that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor
sleep."
Bunyan, in Pilgrim's Progress, furnishes an example of
the slothful condition which retards one's advancement : "At
last he fell into a slumber, and thence into a fast sleep which
detained him in that place." Lot's wife, it will be recalled
"looked back and became a pillar of salt." In our present
[268]
Capricorn and Calcium Phosphate
stage of evolution, a certain amount of rest is absolutely essen
tial in order to enable one to work. There is yet too much
waste, and one is subject to such a constant strain that the
body can not become refreshed unless seven or eight hours of
sleep are obtained.
It is interesting to note that the word knee is used in
architecture. We are amazed to find, in its architectural
analysis, the actual geometrical plan of the sun's path through
Capricorn, for here knee means the slope of a gable other
wise an oblique line. This statement is verified by noting the
exactly oblique line connecting opposite corners of the space
allotted to Capricorn in the chart of the Cosmic Embryo.
A study of the Sun's oblique or diagonal journey through
the sign of the Goat gives us the metaphysical explanation
of the faults of the unregenerate (not yet enlightened), born
with the Sun in this sign. The meaning of diagonal or oblique
is not straightforward', therefore tworfaced; under-hand; sin
ister. Obliquity, derived from the same root, means DEVIA
TION FROM A RIGHT LINE, therefore deviation from
moral rectitude and sound thinking. It is indeed gratifying
to find in geometrical terms, another means of verifying these
findings.
In following its oblique or diagonal path, energy (repre
sented by the Sun) takes a round-about way in other words
seems to waste time (Saturn is Father Time) in addition to
creative substance. This is because, in very truth, it does not
follow the straight and narrow path. It is chained to earth
and can not seem to start upward on its journey it is stag
nant, inactive, drowsy. As the longest side of the triangle is
its oblique line, a longer time is required to cover the distance.
It is very apropos, at this writing, to refer to the state of
PANIC which has existed for practically two years in the
financial and industrial world. The ancients pointed to Pan
as the cause of panic, and sudden, groundless fear. It is a fact
that the word panic is derived from the same root. On re
ferring to Schuessler's Biochemic System, we find that Calcium
phos deficiency causes a state of fear and panic to exist in the
mind. In the absence of straightforwardness, which means
the inability of the mind to travel in a straight line, or path
of wisdom (living the Satanic life sinning), there is no moral
support, hence no mental stamina. Naturally panic results.
The planet Saturn entered its own sign (Capricorn) in
[269]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
March, 1929. Among other things, this sign pertains to occu
pation, profession, honor, and hence position; moral status and
stability. Remember, Saturn or iEscuIapius stole fire from
heaven. In other words he became a perverter, which means
to divert from a right use, to corrupt, to misapply. As the
rock-bottom interpretation of Saturn is SEED, it is evident
that the source of life and of all (pan means all) things includ
ing honor, have become corrupted; and decidedly wrong meth
ods have been employed in handling the necessities of life. In
numerable Loan and Investment organizations have failed.
The cause, in many instances, was the misappropriation of
funds, or actual embezzlement. Very many have failed to stand
the tremendous test of honor which is required by Saturn's
position in his own sign. The brain cells have been incapable
of setting up, or responding to, the high vibration correspond
ing to virtue. Therefore, crashes or falls have resulted.
So great has become the cupidity, covetousness and
avariciousness of mankind, that altruism and honor have been
almost entirely lost sight of. Humanity went mad over spec
ulation. The pendulum may swing far in one direction, but
it inevitably swings just as far in the opposite. The crash in
Wall Street gave this pendulum of speculation a mighty blow.
It was a "knockout" for many. If a position still existed, the
wages earned began to find their way to the Savings Bank.
It is true that during that orgy of speculation, spending and
wasting in sexual excesses, humanity, as Mr. Ford aptly
stated, was actually ill. The "knockout" was the blow that
initiated recovery. But recovery is still a helpless infant, and
will grow very slowly, for it is supplied at present with a poor
quality of food that does not furnish much nutriment. Many
of those who lost all of their savings, would stake all again if
given the chance to double their money, for cupidity is not
yet dead.
Saturn stands for truth, stability, honest values, honor and
integrity. Where TRUST does not exist, there can be no sta
bility. Uranus in Aries, the cerebrum, has been in a square
position to Capricorn, and all relating thereto, since 1928; and
when Saturn entered its own sign, this vibration became tre
mendously intensified. Spasms of fluctuation relative to Capri
corn and Aries resulted. The little balance or harmony which
existed disappeared, and chaos reigned.
Saturn will not leave Capricorn to enter the sign Aquarius,
[270]
Capricorn and Calcium Phosphate
until Feb. 24, 1932. But it does not advance far into
it,
for
it
begins to retrograde on May 15, 1932, and goes back into
Capricorn, reaching the twenty-eighth degree before
it
moves
forward again.
It
retrogrades for exactly the same reason that
a
school teacher returns to the schoolroom to see
if
the pupils
are honorable, or are misbehaving on being left for
a
time
to their own resources.
During the two and one-half years' stay of Saturn
in
his
own sign, humanity is being tested relative to matters pertain
ing to honor.
It
is
being called to an accounting of the money
handled,
it
is
being asked WHAT USE IT HAS MADE
OF THE COIN OF THE REALM. The test will still con
tinue when Saturn enters the sign Aquarius, but
it
will cause
the conscience to begin to stir. Shame and repentance will
gradually manifest. There
is
never any sudden remedying of
any condition years are required in which to bring
it
about.
Education along all lines, desire for SELF-improvement and
an honest effort toward right-living are absolutely essential
factors for normal conditions. One must possess knowledge of
the chemistry of life.
Jupiter, the "Giver of all Good Things," has been
in
Cancer
for one year, but
in
July of this year (1931) left
it
to enter
Leo. His position in Cancer was in opposition to Saturn
in
Capricorn, and square to Uranus
in
Aries. Interpreted, this
means that the vibration of Saturn, which withholds, binds
and constricts, was set against (pulled against) the vibration
of the bountiful giver, Jupiter. As this was the condition
of the cosmic ether waves,
it
was bound to have exactly the
same effect on humanity and all that concerned it. To add
to the confusion, the Dragon's Tail was
in
Libra, which pro
duced the same rate of vibration as Saturn. We marvel
that so many kept their reason and remained on their feet.
It
has been
a
terrible test of mental and physical stamina.
An outstanding indication of perversion relative to all that
is
worth while, has been inflated values. Beginning when
Saturn was
in
Virgo,
in
1919, land and real estate values
(
?)
spasmodically soared skyward. The man who purchased
property for $8000 at that time, asked and received double
what he paid. The purchaser had the same experience. Thus
avariciousness flourished unconfined. All material things de
veloped artificial values, while things worth while and hav
[271]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
ing permanent or fixed value, such as virtue, honor and integ
rity were entirely ignored.
This condition was naturally bound to become more or less
fixed, because all else was forgotten in the mad orgy of money-
getting, and in spending it in excesses of various kinds. It
had apparently grown into a normal or natural condition, and
was so considered by those concerned.
When the cosmic jolt came, it shook everything to its very
foundation (Saturn), and panic resulted. With very little
mental stability to depend on in the time of trial, it is no
wonder that panic resulted.
Just, true, and honest valuations relative to ALL (Pan)
things, will gradually bring about a readjustment, and ulti
mately a more or less harmonious condition.
In Biblical lore, Capricorn corresponds to Ephesus, the first
of the Seven Churches of Asia mentioned in Revelation. It
means in Hebrew to yield or surrender; which, in a sense,
implies license. It is analogous to Sodom, which means
LIME-PLACE. As lime is Calcium, this verifies Dr. Carey's
allocation of Calcium to Capricorn. Sodom also means, a vine
yard burning. "Sodomy" is the name of a common form of
sexual perversion. The story of Sodom and Gomorrah (sub
mersion) never referred to cities, but to localities or parts in
physical real estate. It will be recalled that they were two of
"the five wicked cities of the plain." Genesis 13:10. Sodom
is Hebrew for the BACK PASSAGE, the anus.
If it is such an unclean place, why is it termed a CHURCH
in Revelation? Simply because it had become purified. It had
at last reverted to its original status, which existed before the
"fall."
Smith's Bible Dictionary states that the Temple of Diana
which was erected at this place was one of the seven wonders
of the world. "The building was raised on immense substruc
tions, because of the swampy nature of the ground. The city
of Ephesus was named the 'temple-keeper' or 'warden of
Diana.'
"
According to this same dictionary, "The first seeds of Chris
tian truth were sown at Ephesus" which, physiologically,
is a true statement. Saturn is the sower of seed in fact,
he IS SEED ITSELF. When Pan dies, Jesus is born. In
other words, it is conservation of the souls IN these seeds
(procreative) which constitutes their SAVING.
[272]
Capricorn and Calcium Phosphate
Diana was the Greek name for the Moon. It means virgin
material, and refers to FECUNDITY.
A very curious statement concerning Ephesus is made by
Mr. Smith. He says that "one of the most important officers
of Ephesus was the 'TOWN-CLERK,' who was a person of
very great influence and responsibility." It is not difficult to
clarify the above when it is recalled that a town-clerk is one
who keeps the records. In other words, he is Saturn or
Father Time. Moreover, the Cosmic Records never will be
seen by the Inner Eye (Aries) until its natural food the
bread of life (Pan) is restored. Truly is Saturn's respon
sibility as town-clerk, or record-keeper, very great.
In the second chapter of Revelation, which deals with the
Church of Ephesus, it says: "for thou hast left thy first love;"
which is analogous to the "fall" of Saturn and to the Divine
Fire.
The Bible dictionary states that there were "slime pits"
at Sodom, and that the soil was a"fat, greasy loam." There
is only one interpretation to the above the physiological real
estate contained oil.
There are many Scriptural references to an animal termed
the unicorn. Uni means one, while corn has a number of old
interpretations, among them being corn (seed), head, horn,
cornucopia, and cerebrum. It is very curious and interesting
to note how each of these is associated with Capricorn.
The word cornucopia is said to be associated with the goat
Amalthaea (which nourished Jupiter on Mt. Olympus). Ac
cording to Webster, its meaning is abundance, plenty, suf
ficient. Pan or bread has the same interpretation. It
is,
therefore, related to the conservation of that material which
becomes the Lord's (Aries) supper. As bread
is
made of
grain or seed, and as its inception
is
the cerebrum, the simile
is
obvious.
In Numbers 23 :2, we find the following reference to the
unicorn
:
"God brought them out of Egypt; he hath as
it
were
the strength of an unicorn."
In Job 39:9 and 10, we read: "Will the unicorn be
willing to serve thee, or abide by thy crib? Canst thou bind
the unicorn with his band
in
the furrow; or will he harrow
the valleys after thee?"
"Save me from the lion's (Leo) mouth; for thou hast
heard me from the horns of the unicorns." Psalms 92 :10.
[273]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
The dolphin is associated with the narwhal, the latter
meaning corpse-whale, so-called because of its peculiar color,
the top being gray and the under-side white, spotted with gray.
No doubt its inner meaning was known in ancient times, also
its association with the mysticism of the human body. By
the allocation of the narwhal or unicorn with Capricorn, the
fact is made clear that the procreative fish, or spermatozoa,
are truly corpse-fish, for the very good reason that death
inevitably results from their creation.
A description follows: "Narwhal is the Scandinavian name
for a cetacean, characterized by the presence in the male of
a long horn-like tusk. In the adult of both sexes there are
only two teeth, both in the upper jaw, which lie horizontally
side by side, and in the female remaining throughout life con
cealed in cavities of the bone. In the male the right tooth
usually remains similarly concealed, but the left is immensely
developed, attaining a length equal to more than half that
of the entire animal. In a narwhal twelve feet long, from
snout to tail, the exserted portion of the tusk may measure
six, seven and occasionally eight feet in length. It projects
horizontally forward from the head in the form of a cylin
drical or slightly tapering, pointed tusk, composed of ivory,
with the surface marked by spiral grooves and ridges, running
in a sinistral direction.
"The head is short and rounded, the fore limbs or paddles
are small and broad compared with those of most dolphins.
Dorsal fins are wanting. The name unicorn is sometimes ap
plied to it."
The unicorn (horned goat or horse) has been made use of
in heraldry from ancient times. It is employed to signify or
represent support. It is quite apropos to state here that its
horn, containing, as it does, a central cavity (which must be
filled with marrow or oil), is analogous to the SPINAL
VERTEBRA WHICH ALSO CONTAIN A CENTRAL
CAVITY. These vertebrae are also OF THE NATURE
OF A SUPPORT, as the backbone is the support of the
torso. One having no CHARACTER is said to have no
backbone.
Not only is the backbone the support of the body, but its
strength and condition
is,
we may say,
a
barometer or gauge
by which the mental and moral status may be judged.
It
is
assuredly analogous. Again, the quality
of
the oil
in
the
[274]
Capricorn and Calcium Phosphate
spinal canal corresponds to the general health and purity of
the body. Its refination to the Nth degree is analogous to
the Christ state, or that of the Christ consciousness. The
horn of the unicorn thus contains the ANOINTING OIL.
In occult lore, the dolphin was considered sacred to Apollo,
or the Sun in other words ESSENTIAL TO ENERGY
OR CREATIVE POWER.
Further proof of the correctness of this allocation is the
following, from E. C. Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and
Fable: "According to the legends of the Middle Ages,
the unicorn could be caught only by placing a virgin in his
haunts; upon seeing the virgin, the creature would lose its
fierceness and lie quiet at her feet. This is said to be an
allegory of Jesus Christ, who willingly became man and
entered the Virgin's womb, when he was taken by the hunters
of blood. The one horn symbolizes the great Gospel doctrine
that Christ is one with God." (Guillaume, Clerc de Nor-
mandie Trouvere.)
Mr. Brewer further states that: "According to a belief
once popular, the unicorn by dipping its horn into a liquid
could detect whether or not it contained poison. In the designs
for gold and silver plates made for the Emperor Rudolph II,
by Ottavio Strada, is a cup on which a unicorn stands as if to
assay the liquid. James I. substituted a unicorn, one of the
supporters of the Royal arms of Scotland, for the red dragon
of Wales, introduced by Henry VII."
We find the analysis of the unicorn in the foregoing state
ment by Mr. Brewer rather confusing, as its allocation with
Jesus Christ (the man) was according to the perverted inter
pretation and was not physiological. However, it is true of the
individual and personal Jesus formed in each one, the result
of Pan feeding Jupiter. The fact that the narwhal or unicorn
could only be tamed by placing a virgin in his haunts, is
analogous to the story of the VIRGIN, and the conservation
and purification of the oil in the horn, the glands relating to
Capricorn. It is a fact that only by a life of VIRGINITY
is it possible to tame the animal.
A few facts relative to the association of stone and oil
must be here given. Scripture states: "And I say unto thee
that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church ;
and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
"And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of
[275]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
heaven, and whatsoever thou shalt bind upon earth shall be
bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth
shall be loosed in heaven."
As Peter is the same as Petra and means stone, it indeed
is the stone (mineral) necessary in the construction of a
perfect (holy) structure for the indwelling SPIRIT. There
fore the Peter referred to was stone. The "binding and
loosening" no doubt refers to the unrefined and the refined oil.
The word Petroleum consists of two words, petra and
oleum, meaning respectively, stone and oil, therefore mineral
oil or oil formed from mineral. It is known to be a complex
mixture of hydro-carbons, and varies much in appearance
and properties. No doubt it represents a certain critical
state resulting from the harmonious combination of all ele
ments, for it is a fact that all substances may be analyzed out
of it. In the form of naphtha is was known to the ancient
Egyptians "who used it in their perpetual lamps." These
lamps have been referred to in the first chapter.
It is a curious fact that the expression, "peter out," means
to become exhausted, to fail, to run out. Peter is analogous
to the sacral nerves controlling the sexual glands, while Paul
is related to the cerebrum and is many times referred to as
"the still small voice." It is indeed a fact that the strength
of Paul is weakened when the creative force and substance
"peters out."
It is well to here explain why saltpeter is often mixed with
the food given to soldiers in times of war. The fact that it is
done, is probably generally known, but few are aware of the
reason or effect.
Due to excess mucous and glandular fluids (the result of
chemical deficiency, acid, incorrect and excessive eating), the
sexual glands of the average male are over-engorged with
fluid. This, if understood, would be recognized as proof of a
diseased condition. The pressure within the distended glands
calls attention to them, creating desire, which becomes uncon
trollable. As this part of the body is Ephesus, as before
stated, the Biblical words "I have fought with wild beasts at
Ephesus" (I Cor. 15. 32) may well apply to this condition of
the sexual organs.
The action of saltpeter causes relaxation of the involuntary
fibers which depend upon spasms of the involuntary muscles.
In plain English, the muscles controlling the sexual organ are
rendered incapable of contracting.
[276]
Capricorn and Calcium Phosphate
Encyclopaedia Britannica says of saltpeter: "It was some
times used by doctors in asthma and for many different dis
eases; but it is now never administered internally, as its
extremely depressant action upon the heart is not compensated
for by any useful properties which are not possessed by many
other drugs." Comment on the above is unnecessary.
Robbing Peter to pay Paul is analogous to energizing the
brain by means of continence.
Returning to the subject of the goat, it is said that the best
wool is obtained from castrated Angora goats. The reason
is,
that the life force, and substance,
is
never wasted, but re
creates the body.
"The Golden Age" was the name given by the ancients to
the time of Saturn's reign, for this mighty angel had returned
to heaven, his former fall having been forgotten.
The fish-tailed goat of the zodiac represents
a
close analogy
to the Mexican calendar sign, which is
a
kind of marine mon
ster resembling
a
narwhal.
Capricorn
is
the house of spiritual conception; and,
if
nine
months are considered to be the period of spiritual gestation,
Spiritual birth will be
in
Libra, meaning that balance
is
at
tained.
The facetious remark sometimes made by Freemasons, that
a
candidate
is
"to ride the goat" on
a
certain evening, literally
means, whether he knows
it
or not, that he must learn to
control his passions.
In the Babylonian creation-scheme, Capricorn was Abba-e,
or "The Cave of the Rising," which
is
analogous to the birth
of Jesus in the cave or manger.
It
was also Muna-kha, the
Goat-fish.
In ancient times,
a
certain day was set aside as the Day of
Atonement. The sins of the people were, metaphorically, cast
upon
a
goat, which was then driven away into the wilderness.
The familiar phrase "to be made the goat of," signifies to take
the blame.
It
is
obvious, therefore, that something more than mere
superstition has kept these expressions extant down through
the ages.
It
is
said that "very ancient oriental legends which made
Capricorn the nurse of the youthful son-god long anticipated
the story of the infant Jupiter and the goat Amalthea."
Richard Allen says: "Very frequent mention was made of
[277]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
this constellation in early days, for the Platonists held that
the souls of men, when released from corporeity, ascended to
heaven through the stars, whence it was called the GATE OF
THE GODS; their road of descent having been through
Cancer." Full explanation has been given in the fourth
chapter of this book.
"Caesius and Postellus are authority for its being Azazel,
the Scapegoat of Leviticus. Manuscripts from the second
to the fifteenth century show it with the head and body of a
goat, or ibex, ending in a fish's tail. In the Aztec calendar
it appeared as Cipactli, with a figure like that of a narwhal.
"Nashira is from Al Sa'd al Nashirah, the Fortunate One,
or the Bringer of Good Tidings one of the stars in the con
stellation of Capricorn."
Madam Blavatsky states, on page 579 of the second part of
the last edition of her work: "But the true sense of the
word 'Makara' (Capricorn) does not mean 'crocodile,' in
truth, at all, even when it is compared with the animal depicted
on the Hindu Zodiac. For it has the head and fore-legs of
an antelope and the body and tail of a fish. Hence the tenth
sign of the Zodiac has been taken variously to mean a shark,
a dolphin, etc. ; as it is the VAHAN of VARUNA, the Ocean
God, and is often called, for this reason, Jala-rupa or 'water-
form.'
" The procreative germs are the forms in the water.
Mr. G. A. Gaskell says of Capricorn: "A symbol of the
tenth period of the cycle of life. It signifies the higher mind
(white he-goat) which is attained by the ego climbing the
mount of aspiration through the transmutation of the lower
mind, in the cycle of evolution."
The glyph of Capricorn is very curious, and in close study
will be found to be patterned after the sacral bone. The top
is open, and the figure is in the form of a triangle pointed
downward. Branching off from the right side is a curved line
which circles to the right and downward. This is analogous of
the sacral nerves branching off from the sacrum. A more eso
teric interpretation is that of the Serpent Fire.
Dr. Carey allocated Calcium or lime phosphate with this
sign. The body requires more of it than of any other mineral
for the reason that a very great quantity is required for the
bones alone. This fact proves it to be a correct chemical allo
cation. Saturn rules the bones, as mentioned heretofore. They
are the OLDEST parts of the body, for they remain intact for
[278]
Capricorn and Calcium Phosphate
long years after the flesh has disappeared. Not only is this salt
essential to the growth and well-being of the framework, but,
in addition, it forms the skeletal part of every cell. Limestone
and mortar constitute the foundation stone of the body, the
same as of any structure.
Mortar or mucus (albumin or pituitary substance) is
created in Aries. Working "on the square," it combines with
Calcium to form the basic parts of the body. No cells can be
formed without it. In the proportion in which Calcium com
bines with albumin, is the resulting physical substance hard or
soft. Both kinds are needed.
Any deficiency in lime results in excess mucus or albumin,
for the latter has become non-functional. It works when it
has sufficient lime to work with. Excess mucus is the cause of
colds, the so-called "germ" for which science has so long
been searching. A cold is Nature's method of housecleaning
she eradicates the mucus. Those who over-eat, and who con
sume large quantities of mucus-making foods, frequently have
colds.
From lack of Calcium phosphate, mucus collects in the
tonsils, thus causing them to enlarge. The tonsils should not
be removed, for the free use of this salt, together with the as
sistance of the surgeon (Silicea), will eventually bring about a
normal condition. Sometimes they become so diseased that
they are tubercular, fall away in pieces and are raised with
sputa. Nevertheless these two salts, with the addition of Cal
cium sulph, will restore them to health in about ten months.
Albumin or mucus (waste mortar) may collect in the thyroid
gland. This is the cause of goiter. It may be intensified by
nerve impingements in the cervical region. Manipulations
and massage are very helpful because they stimulate the cir
culation.
Lack of iodine is not the cause of goiter, but Calcium
phosphate deficiency. Iodine is not a constituent of the body,
for the very good reason that it is an irritant. The Great
Chemist and Architect never made use of irritants in the
construction of the human body. It is man who has induced
irritants into the Temple of God, and he continues doing
this, no matter what is said. Iodine is no more a constituent of
the body than is hydrochloric acid, for both are irritants. All
the twelve chemical elements of the blood are alkaline ; and, in
addition, the Libra salt, Natrium phos, or sodium phosphate,
[279]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
is especially furnished in order that humanity may have some
means of neutralizing the acid made by wrong eating, indiges
tion from worry, etc., etc.
A third and extremely important use of Calcium phos is by
the digestive and assimilative organs; for, when Calcium phos
is low, these organs are unable to do good work. When it is
extremely deficient, scarcely any food digests. Cell starvation
and anemia of the blood result. People do not seem to under
stand this statement, even when it is clearly explained; for
they invariably ask: "What food shall I eat in order to obtain
this form of Calcium?" When the digestive fluids are starved
in this salt, it is utterly impossible to digest any food even
though it contains Calcium salt. IT HAS FIRST TO BE RE
LEASED BY DIGESTION. Therefore, if the food is not
digested, IT IS NOT RELEASED, AND THE ONLY
MEANS OF OBTAINING IT IS TO TAKE THE CAL
CIUM PHOS TABLETS. This is the great mistake made
by so many interested in the study of food chemistry,
especially those who claim that the right kind of food and
proper diet will cure anything. They are not informed relative
to the nature of Calcium or to the absolutely necessary part it
plays in the digestive fluids.
An outstanding example of the truth of the above, which
is more or less world-wide knowledge, is the case of King
George V of England. His was a case of semi-paralysis of the
organs, and mal-nutrition. Many physicians of the old school
were in attendance, but it remained for Dr. Dodds, Professor
of Biochemistry in a London University, to find that his blood
was very low in Calcium. On being given this salt, digestion
improved, and through assimilating the food he began slowly
to improve, where, previous to its administration, no improve
ment was noticeable. However, the King requires many more
of the salts, to correct the symptoms to which he is subject. He
is subject, among other symptoms, to pneumonia, bronchitis,
and pleurisy; but his right lung, and especially the pleura of
that lung, is much weaker than the left. His blood is watery,
due to Natrium sulph need, and yet it also contains lumps of
fibrin, due to his Kali mur deficiency. His system lacks oil,
because of Kali sulph need, and he is subject to ptomaine
poisoning, because of these two potassium combination de
ficiencies. He is also extremely deficient in the electrical salt,
Kali phos, and because of this, tends to suffer from paralysis.
[280]
Capricorn and Calcium Phosphate
It can not be too often emphasized, that THESE SALTS
ARE TAKEN INTO THE BLOOD AT ONCE, AS NO
SEPARATIVE PROCESS IS NECESSARY. They are free
salts, and instantly go about their work. Many, in commenting
on the salts, say that the blood can not take them up. My six
teen years' experience with them in my own family, and with
the thousands I have contacted, is sufficient proof that they
are at once utilized by the blood. Indeed, I will make an
even more emphatic statement and say that NOTHING ELSE
WILL DO THE WORK THAT THESE LITTLE MIN
ERAL WORKMEN, THE CELL SALTS, ACCOM
PLISH IN THE BODY. THIS METHOD IS THE
COMING SYSTEM. IT IS BEING HASTENED BY
THE PRESENCE OF NEPTUNE, THE PURIFIER,
IN VIRGO, THE HOUSE OF HEALTH. The perversion
of health methods is slowly passing, together with all other
perversions.
Only by means of astrology are we able to become cog
nizant of the relationship existing between the Macrocosm,
or body of the universe, and the body of man. Thus we are
at any time able to discover in what part of man Nature's
forces are acting or operating, and just what effect is being
produced. This also explains the presence and nature or
epidemics.
Dr. Carey states, in his Biochemic System of Medicine:
"Phosphate of lime is destined to play a prominent part in
the treatment of the sick, when its range is understood by
medical practitioners. This salt works with albumin, carries
it to bone tissue or to any part of the body where it may be
needed. It uses albumin as a cement to build up bone
structure.
"Bone is nfty-seven percent phosphate of lime, the remain
der gelatine, an albuminoid, gluey substance, carbonate of
soda, magnesium phosphate and sodium chloride."
When non-functional albumin (due to lack of Calcium) is
thrown off via the kidneys, Dr. Carey says "wise (?) men
call it Bright's disease."
Acid naturally results when food is not properly digested,
also when excess food is consumed. This salt will remedy it.
A few of the many symptoms arising from a deficiency in
this salt are: poor memory; incapacity for concentrated
thought; weak minds in those practicing or who have practiced
[281]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
self-abuse (Kali phos and other salts are also required) ;
fear; panic; desire for solitude; cold feeling in the head, also
tight sensation in the head; skull thin and soft; crawling
sensation over head; dropsy of brain; loss of hair; inability
to hold up the head; eyes sensitive to artificial light; aching
of eyeballs; swelling of glands in scrofulous persons; nasal
polypi; cold in the head and albuminous discharge; anaemic,
dirty-looking face; pimples on the face; feeling of coldness
and numbness; bad, disgusting taste in the mouth, especially
in the morning, and very fetid breath; decay of teeth (Cal
cium phos will improve the teeth, hardening them. Dentists
invariably comment on the improvement manifesting in this
respect, in their patrons, and usually ask what has caused it) ;
pale gums; tongue stiff and numb; enlargement of throat;
goiter (other salts are also required) ; chronic enlargement of
the tonsils; sticking pain in throat on swallowing; constant
hoarseness; rough, hoarse voice in children; pain after eating
food seeming to lie in a lump; food causing distress; ab
normal appetite; sinking or faint feeling in stomach; palpita
tion of the heart and weakness; pain in the bones; all bone
troubles; articular spinal irritation; injuries to the base of the
spine or coccyx; convulsions in teething children; bones easily
broken; stunted growth; cellular disturbances; restless sleep,
etc., etc.
A few words of comment on self-abuse are necessary. As
this salt is required by the body in far greater quantities than
any other, it will surprise the readers of this book to learn that
it has recently been discovered, by actual analysis, that there
is more Calcium in the procreative fluid than in the blood
itself. The scientists responsible for this finding state that they
are "non-plussed." They can not understand why there should
be more lime in the semen than in the blood. Biochemistry
alone enables one instantly to explain it. It is the chief building
material. This proves, indubitably, that IT WAS NEVER
CREATED TO BE THROWN AWAY TO MAKE
NOTHING OF.
In making this invaluable discovery, those responsible for it
have unknowingly furnished still another means of verifying
the statement made in Dr. Carey's writings and in my own,
relative to the necessity for the conservation of the procreative
fluid. In the present stage of the evolutionary process of hu
manity, it is solely for the purpose of procreation. EVENT
[282]
Capricorn and Calcium Phosphate
UALLY IT WILL ALL REVERT TO THE USE
ORIGINALLY INTENDED BEFORE THE FALL.
IT WILL ITSELF RECREATE THE HUMAN BODY.
In Latin, the word for Calcium is calx, meaning (in addition
to lime) end or goal, and attainment. It also means heel. As
the meaning of the latter is end, it also is apropos. How re
markable, then, Dr. Carey's allocation of this salt, which
means end or attainment (the closing or concluding part), to
Capricorn, which is the end of the old year and the beginning
of the new. A Janus who "looks back," wastes his Calcium, but
also the Janus who looks forward who aspires builds his
Temple of God on LIVING LIME-STONE. The Great
Pyramid of Gizeh is an age-long memorial of this fact.
"Each thing bears within itself the seed of its own regenera
tion.
"It is the Tincture or Medicine which is the LIFE of life
in man, the seed of regeneration.
"Prithee, what madness binds you, when WITHIN NOT
WITHOUT YOU is all that you seek outside instead of
within you." Sir Thomas Vaughan.
[283]
Chapter XI
THE ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF AQUARIUS
AND NATRIUM MUR.
"And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the -waters.
And God said, Let there be light; and there was light."
Genesis 1 :2-3
HE Sun enters the zodiacal sign Aquarius on approx
imately January 21, and remains until February 21.
In its journey, it covers the last week in January and
the first two weeks of February.
It is obvious that the work of Janus, which is the END of
a process, and hence the commencement of another, must be
followed by a cleansing or purification, since the Latin lexicon
informs us that the latter is the meaning of the word February.
In ancient times, the Romans held the festival of purification
at the end of this month, symbolical of the fact that the pro
cess had been completed. The story however, is associated
with the first decan of Pisces, and must therefore be considered
in the next chapter.
February is derived from februo, a Sabine word. Accord
ing to Mr. Brewer, "the Dutch used to term the month
Spokkel-maand (vegetation month) ; the ancient Saxons,
Sprote-cal (from the sprouting of pot-wort or kele) ; in the
French Republican calendar it was called Pluviose (rain-
month)."
The word Aquarius is derived from the same root as aqua,
which is Latin for water. The meaning of Aquarius is Water-
bearer or Cup-bearer. Its glyph is a very ancient symbol of
water. The exoteric significance of this sign
is,
that when the
Sun
is
transiting Aquarius, the moisture
in
the air
is
released
and precipitated
in
the form of rain. The releasing Sodium
sulphate vibrations
in
the Sun's rays offset those of the retain
ing Sodium chloride vibrations
in
the air. No more water can
be retained, for the saturation point has been reached.
Synthesizing all of the interpretations that we have obtained
thus far, we find no variation.
It
is
obvious that the months of
[284]
Aquarius and Natrium Mur
the year were named according to the particular and intimate
work of Nature during these periods. It must also be remem
bered that the Sun's course through each sign is definite and
unalterable, following an established geometrical plan. (See
chart Cosmic and Microcosmic Embryos).
Madam Blavatsky states that "the whole expanse of
Heaven was called the 'Waters of Space' or the 'Celestial
Ocean.' The name very likely comes from the Vedic Varuna,
personified as the water god, and regarded as chief Aditya
among the seven planetary deities. In Hesiod's Theogony,
Ouranos (or Uranus) is the same as Caelus (Heavenly) the
oldest of all the gods and the father of the divine Titans."
The Titans were analogous to the rays of the Sun, hence
creative power. Greek mythology gives an account of the
struggle or war between the Titans and the children of Kronos
(Saturn), which is analogous to the everlasting contention
going on today between the lower mind and the Higher Self.
It is indeed one of Titanic proportion.
If the foregoing chapters have been understood, it will not
be difficult for the reader to solve the following story from
Greek mythology: "As Uranus destroyed his children by
confining them in the bosom of the earth, Tythea, so Kronos
at this second stage of creation destroyed his children from
Rhea, by devouring them."
A few comments, however, will be helpful in refreshing the
memory. The children of Uranus (heaven) are the Erotes,
or electrical nuclei, the seed germs of life, which can not yet
be seen with the microscope. They are the winged spirits
of life. The belief
is,
that they are not destroyed, but retarded
and restricted by being confined. For they take on human
form as they enter Cancer which pertains to the breast or
bosom; also to the stomach and spleen. Then, at the second
stage, these human corpuscles are taken down (fall) by Saturn
into Tartarus (the Titans fell from heaven into Tartarus
hell). This means that
in
Scorpio they are conjoined with
animal germs.
As Spirit
is
never LOST, the physical constituents of the
animal corpuscles (procreative germ cells),
if
not USED
in
forming the body of
a
child, disintegrate. They go back to
the earth from whence they came, while "the Spirit returns
to God who gave it."
There
is
direct reference to this fact
in
the Scriptures, for,
[285]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
in John 3:5, we read: "Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say
unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit,
he can not enter into the kingdom of God."
And the sixth and seventh verses confirm our foregoing
statements: "That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that
which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. Marvel not that I said
unto thee, Ye must be born again."
No one can be born again until the MATERIAL IS
FURNISHED WHICH IS NECESSARY IN THE
PROCESS.
Additional information relative to the water glyph of
Aquarius is available from many sources. It is curious that
it is an inverted letter m. This is indicative of the fact that
the waves of fluidic or humid air, intermixed with ether,
are in inverse position in the heavens to the waves of water
on the earth. This is esoteric.
A study of the letter m reveals the esoteric significance.
The facts given relative to this letter in the chapter on Virgo,
and again in that dealing with Scorpio, prove that its basic
interpretation is Mare, or the Great Cosmic Mother. It is
fluid containing all the chemical elements in solution.
In Aquarius we find them resolved back to a more etheric
state than on the lower or earth plane. In other words,
Mother has truly merged into her Son, for it is the "sign of
the Son of Man. '
Mary has ascended with Jesus.
In the human body this has reference to the cleansed and
chemically perfect BLOOD SERUM, for Aquarius, physio
logically and anatomically relates to the saline solution of the
blood, and also to the ankles. It likewise pertains to the last
two vertebrae of the sacrum and the first coccygeal vertebrae.
The only correspondence given to us in works on astrology, is
its relation to the ankles. Its allocation with the SALINE
solution of the blood and to the vertebrae is the result of much
research work.
On page 269 of the second volume of the Secret Doctrine,
we are informed that "Uranus was mutilated by his son
Kronos, who thus condemned him to impotency." Naturally,
when the Divine Fire was stolen from Heaven (Uranus), it
was analogous to wounding him; and, if none were RE
TURNED, impotency, or the power to generate more winged
electrons, eventually ceased.
"It is electricity, the one LIFE at the upper rung of Being,
[286]
Aquarius and Natrium Mur
and Astral Fluid, the Athanor of the Alchemists, at its lowest;
God and devil, good and evil," says Madam Blavatsky.
She further says of water: "For the Lotus and Water are
among the oldest symbols, and in their origin are purely
Aryan, though they became common property during the
branching off of the fifth race. Let us give an example.
Letters, as much as numbers, were all mystic, whether in com
bination or each taken separately. The most sacred of all is
the letter M. It is both feminine and masculine, or andro
gynous, and is made to symbolize WATER, the great deep,
in its origin. It is mystic in all the languages, Eastern and
Western, and stands as a glyph for the waves, thus in the
Aryan Esotericism, as in the Semitic, this letter has always
stood for the waters, e. g., in the Sanskrit MAKARA the
tenth sign of the zodiac (Aquarius) means a crocodile, or
rather an aquatic monster associated always with water. The
letter MA is equivalent to, and corresponds with, number
5 composed of a binary, the symbol of the two sexes
separated, and of the ternary, symbol of the third life, the
progeny of the binary. It is also the initial letter of the Greek
Metis or Divine Wisdom; of Mimra, the Word or Logos;
and of Mithras, the Monad, Mystery. All these are born in,
and from, the great Deep, and are the Sons of Maya the
Mother; in Egypt, Mouth, in Greece Minerva (divine wis
dom). Mary, or Miriam, Myrrha, etc.; of the Mother of
the Christian Logos, and of Maya, the mother of Buddha.
Madhava and Madhavi are the titles of the most important
gods and goddesses of the Hindu Pantheon. Finally, Man-
dala is in Sanskrit 'a circle,' or an orb. The most sacred
names in India begin with this letter generally from Mahat,
the first manifested intellect, and Mandara, the great moun
tain used by the gods to churn the OCEAN, down to Man-
dakin, the heavenly Ganga."
Madam Blavatsky also refers to the Biblical statement that
Moses was "drawn from the water." Water is also a reminder
of the three Marys. "This is why in Judaism and Christianity
the Messiah is always connected with Water, Baptism, the
fishes (the sign of the zodiac called Meenan in Sanskrit)
and even with Matsya (rish) Avatar, and the Lotus."
In Hebrew, Ur, the root of Uranus, means light; also
fortress or castle. Ur or Hur means the mother of bitumen,
which would seem rather far-fetched, did we not know that
[287]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
bitumen is a form of petroleum, and hence a source of light
and heat.
All the Hebrew names commencing with Ur have some
interpretation relative to light. Uriel means the fire of God;
Urijah, flame of Jehovah, the Uriah, light of Jehovah.
The uraeus, which was the serpent emblem of Egyptian
divinities and kings, was placed on head-dresses as a symbol
of sovereignty. The positive interpretation of serpent is wis
dom, therefore mental light, the light of intelligence.
The Romans gave the name Aquae, "waters" to sites where
mineral springs issued from the earth.
How many students of astrology have ever analyzed the
fact that, of the twelve signs of the zodiac, eight are animal,
three human and one inanimate? There is no work in exist
ence, at least no» translation of any old book or manuscript,
dealing with this subject; for, together with everything else
(except mathematics), the fundamental and esoteric analysis
of the signs and all that pertains to them has been perverted.
What little was known concerning them gradually faded from
the race consciousness. And because the race consciousness as
a whole does not yet wish to concern itself with pure and un
adulterated astrology, it will be seared and blinded by the
lightning of Uranus. For we are now in the Day of Uranus,
and all that concerns the heavens and man will soon be un
covered. We may not look forward to
it,
but nothing can
prevent it.
It
will be recalled that the symbol of Gemini
is
the twins;
that of Virgo the Virgin; that of Aquarius the heavenly man,
the Son of Man, holding an urn from which the Water of
Life
is
pouring upon the earth. The nature of the man
is
essentially heavenly the LIGHT
is
being disseminated
etheric waves shortened, thus producing more powerful
currents. The urn
in
the hand of Aquarius
is
Saturn. In as
trological lore, Uranus and Saturn are co-rulers of this sign,
another secret which has never been analyzed.
As Saturn
is
always concerned with SEED, the water
in
this
urn must contain seed, and
it
does. Again the reader must be
reminded of the necessity of studying anatomy and physi
ology. The blood serum, as before stated,
is
the saline (sea
water) solution which vitalizes the blood corpuscles swim
ming
in
it. This serum
is,
therefore, the salt sea of the body
in
which live the physiological FISH, for the CORPUSCLES
ARE FISH IN THE HUMAN SEA.
[288]
Aquarius and Natrium Mur
It is necessary at this point to state that Dr. Carey allocated
Natrium mur or sodium chloride, with Aquarius. Most peo
ple are aware of the fact that it is what is commonly called
salt. Dr Carey says: "A combination of sodium and chlorine
forms the mineral known as common salt. This mineral
absorbs water. The circulation or distribution of water in
the human organism is due to the chemical action of the
molecules of sodium chloride."
It is a fact that this salt does absorb water, but it is not
its first or basic nature. Indeed, it possesses a far more
subtle and portentous attribute. It has the power to
ATTRACT water, therefore actually to draw it to itself
to become one with it. This is true of the SPIRIT, the
LIGHT within the darkness of human ignorance. As long as
the Spirit remains in the body, it is a candle shrouded in dark
ness. But it eventually draws to itself, if allowed to do so, the
materials with which to make a light. Emphasis, then, must
be placed on the power of attraction which this salt possesses.
When the cells in certain areas of the brain (cerebrum)
are exceedingly deficient in this salt, and the corpuscles (fish)
die, reason itself dies. Astrology proves itself, if given a
chance to do so; for if the charts of the greatest criminals
were studied in the light of astro-physio-chemistry, astrology
would be acclaimed as a synthesizer of all sciences. Many of
the world's noblest and most outstanding characters were
born when the Sun was in Aquarius; while, on the other hand,
terrible malefactors have acknowledged it as their Sun sign.
The pairs of opposites is one of Nature's methods of display
ing her wealth and her poverty.
The inanimate symbol of the Scales or Balance cries aloud
to High Heaven that humanity MUST ATTAIN BAL
ANCE THE PERFECT OR NEUTER STATE.
In the maps of the heavens which have pictured these signs
of the zodiac from remote times, we find that the Water of
Life from the urn of Aquarius (the Heavenly Man) is being
absorbed by the Southern Fish, one of the two constituting
the sign Pisces. Humanity has never been left in the dark
by the Great Architect of the universe, for in very truth He
gave man His candle and said "LET there be LIGHT."
He said, in effect, ALLOW, or ENABLE the light to be
produced. This astounding picture of the fish eagerly drink
ing the Water of Life, is symbolical of the positive or human
[289]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
corpuscles being allowed (because furnished with it) to drink
of the vitalizing and perfect blood serum. No further proof
is needed.
In the blood stream are found the two fishes, the positive
or GOLD FISH, and the negative or SILVER FISH. The
former is analogous to the fish named John Dory, which is
a corruption of jaune adore e, "the adorable or sacred yellow
fish." Tradition says of
it,
that
it
was the fish from which
St. Peter took the stater
(a
gold coin, therefore "coin of the
realm"). In his Dictionary
of
Phrase and Fable, Mr. Brewer
states that "this fish was called
in
French
le
poisson de St.
Pierre; and,
in
Gascon, the golden or sacred cock, meaning
St. Peter's cock. Like the haddock,
it
has
a
remarkable oval
black spot on each side, said to be the fingermarks of St. Peter,
when he held the fish to extract the coin."
Further information relative to these two fishes will be
given
in
the next chapter.
As fish, which are natural habitants of salt water, cease
living when removed from
it,
so do the physiological fish die
when sodium chloride falls far below its normal quantity.
The word ewer
is
another synonym for urn,
a
jug to carry
water. From its root
is
derived the word ewe, or adult female
sheep. As the letter W
is
replaced
in
Hebrew by two V's,
we find that Eve
is
derived from the same source. As she
was the "mother of all living" and
is
analogous to Aries, the
Lamb of God, the ewer as well as the ewe
is
truly the source
and origin of the Water of Life. "Feed my sheep,"
Jesus longingly cries.
It
is
obvious that the urn of Aquarius (Sat-urn or urn of
seed)
is
analogous to the pans or urns of the Scales of Libra.
BOTH MUST BE FILLED WITH SEED.
A little-known expression
is
"ewe-neck" which
is
used
in
referring to horses having thin, insufficiently arched necks,
suggesting those of sheep. How interesting to find that one
of the outstanding modalities indicative of lack of Natrium
mur, or sodium chloride,
is
a
thin, emaciated neck. Many peo
ple having the Sun
in
Leo are examples of this fact, as any
one can prove by observation. The tissues of the neck do not
contain sufficient fluid.
In Ecclesiastical History, the Aquarians were one of several
sects of Christians, such as the Encratites in the primitive
church, who used water in the Lord's Supper. An encratite,
[290]
Aquarius and Natrium Mur
according to the Dictionary, means self-disciplined, one who
abstains from Marriage, Wine and Animal Food. It is evi
dent, therefore, that there have been, in times past, those who
"made of themselves eunuchs for the Kingdom of Heaven's
sake."
In the Babylonian Creation-Scheme, "Aquarius was As-a-an
('the Curse of Rain') and the story of the Flood is the legend
especially connected with it". In Euphratean astronomy this
region of the sky was actually called the Sea. Aquarius
was also Gula ('The Urn') and Gusisa ('The Directing-urn').
In Sumerian and Akkadian lore, this sign was known as
FISH-OF-THE-CANAL. As a canal is supposed to con
tain water or fluid, we have here verification of the statement
previously made, that the corpuscles in the blood are truly the
fish in the human canal.
Candlemas, the name for the ancient church festival,
celebrated annually on the second of February, was in com
memoration of the presentation of Christ in the Temple. In
the Greek church, it is known as "the meeting of the Lord;"
in the west, as the Purification of the Blessed Virgin. It is
the most ancient of all the festivals in honor of the Virgin
Mary. In the second half of the fourth century it was kept
on February fourteenth. As Virgin Mary is analogous to
pure fluid, Candlemas Day is no doubt analogous to the second
of the three stages (beginning with Capricorn) in the pre-
manifestation of Spirit, otherwise its journey from the invisible
into the visible. The period from Capricorn to Aries covers
this journey.
Richard Allen, in his Star-Names and Their Meanings, says
of Aquarius: "New Testament Christians of the sixteenth
and seventeenth centuries likened it appropriately enough to
John the Baptist, and to Judas Thaddaeus, the Apostle,
although some went back to Naaman in the waters of the
Jordan, and even to Moses taken out of the water."
He further states that "we find
it,
too, as Aristaeus, their
Elijah, who brought rain to the inhabitants of Ceos, the
Cecrops, from the cicada nourished by the dew, whose eggs
were hatched by the showers. The great Grecian lyric poet
Pindar asserted that
it
symbolized the genius of the fountains
of the Nile, the life-giving waters of the earth. Vergil called
it
FRIGIDUS, because
it
closed the year with moisture."
That astrology has been in evidence much longer than
is
[291]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
generally supposed, Richard Allen points out, continuing with
Aquarius: "In Babylonia it was associated with the eleventh
month Shabatu, the Curse of Rain; and the Epic of Creation
has an account of the Deluge in its eleventh book, correspond
ing to this eleventh constellation; each of its other books
numerically coinciding with the other zodiacal signs. In that
country its URN seems to have been known as GU, a Water-
jug overflowing, the Akkadian Ku-ur-ku, the Seat of the
Flowing Waters; and it was also Ramman or Rammanu, the
God of the Storm, the still earlier Imma, shown pouring water
from a vase, the god, however, frequently being omitted.
Some assert that Lord of Canals is the signification of the
Akkadian word for Aquarius, given to it 15,000 years ago,
when the Sun entered it and the Nile flood was at its height.
And while this statement carries the beginning of astronomy
very much further back than has generally been supposed, or
will now be acknowledged, yet for many years we have seen
Egyptian and Euphratean history continuously extended into
the hitherto dim past; and this theory would easily solve the
much discussed question of the origin of the zodiac figures
if we are to regard either of these countries as their source,
and the seasons and agricultural operations as giving them
names.
"In China, with Capricornus, Pisces and a part of
Sagittarius, it constituted the early Serpent, or Turtle, Tien
Yuen; and later was known as Hiuen Ying, the Dark Warrior
and Hero, or Darkly Flourishing One, the Hiuen Wu, or
Hiuen Heaou, of the Han dynasty. It was a symbol of the
emperor Tchoun Hin, in whose reign was a great deluge ;
but after the Jesuits came in, it became Paou Ping, the
Precious Vase."
Because Aquarius is heaven, it represents, naturally, the
whole science of astronomy.
As the vibrations of Aquarius possess powerful virtue,
influence and efficacy, it is evident that they alter the air and
the seasons in a very strange and secret manner. Reference
has been made in other chapters to the fact that our solar
system has entered the sign of Aquarius. Therefore it natural
ly follows that great and drastic changes along all lines will
slowly materialize. Beliefs and opinions, held because they
were those of our forebears, are fast going into the scrap
heap of old ideas. Study and concentration, a wish to know,
[ 292 ]
Aquarius and Natrium Mur
brought about by the initial stirring of the Inner Man, will
eventually present the reasons for things to the consciousness
of mankind.
It is interesting to note here that Leo, the beast, is at the
opposite end of this pole. In very truth are the Divine Man
and the animal man antitheses of each other one positive,
the other negative.
Some astrologers attribute to Aquarius an aqueous blue.
But, in the color chart presented in connection with this book,
violet is allocated with it. As the blood serum is associated
with this sign (as before stated), it is easy to understand
whence came the expression "blue blood" or "royal blood,"
since the color of this sign is a kingly one. The sedative
qualities of blue are well known.
Ganymede, the Cup-bearer of the gods, has ever been a
symbol of Aquarius, in Greek mythology.
Mr. Spence says of Ganymedes, the cup-bearer of Jupiter:
"He holds the cup or little urn in his hand, inclined down
ward; and is always pouring out of it; as indeed he ought
to be, to be able from so small a source to form that river
which you see running from his feet, and making so large a
tour over all this part of the globe."
In Greek mythology we find the following interesting
description of the cup-bearer of the Gods: "Ganymede was
the son of Tros, King of Dardania and Callirrhoe. He was
the most beautiful of mortals, and was carried off by the gods
(by Zeus in the form of an eagle) to Olympus to serve as
cup-bearer. By way of compensation, Zeus presented his
father with a team of immortal horses (or a golden vine).
Ganymede was afterwards regarded as the genius of the
fountains of the Nile, the life-giving and fertilizing river, and
identified by astronomers with the Aquarius of the zodiac.
Thus the divinity who distributed drink to the gods in Heaven
became the genius who presided over the due supply of water
on earth."
We find in the name Ganymede the explanation of his office.
Gany is derived from the same root as the Sanskrit Ganga or
Ganges. The Ganges is the principal sacred river in India.
The Sanskrit Glossary states that "There are two versions
of its myth; one relates to Ganga (the goddess) having trans
formed herself into a river, flows through the big toe of
[293]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Vishnu;* the other, that the Ganga drops from the ear of
Siva into the Anavatapta lake, thence passes out through the
mouth of the silver cow, crosses all Eastern India, and falls
into the Southern Ocean. 'An heretical superstition,' remarks
Mr. Eitel, in his Sanskrit and Chinese Dictionary, 'ascribes to
the waters of the Ganges sin-cleansing power.' No more a
'superstition,' one would say, than the belief that the waters
of Baptism and the Jordan have 'sin-cleansing power.'
"
The above statement goes to prove that all nations and
people possess, in their literature and Sacred Scriptures, the
same allegories and myths found in the Bible. Naturally so,
as they refer to the same thing.
The first part of the name Ganymede, therefore, refers to
a sacred river or cleansing stream. Mede is an old form of
mead and refers to wine, honey, sweet drink or one made of
manna. It is clearly analogous to the cerebral esse which
forms the basis of all the fluids of the body.
The reward Zeus gave his father to compensate him for
his son's removal to heaven, is analogous to the Higher Mind
(horses) become awakened because of the return of the Wine
of Life (son of the Father) to its heavenly (cerebral) source.
In very truth, the fluid which waters the Garden of Eden (the
head) goes down to water the earthly body. The Son of Man
has often been termed "the Water of Life."
Ganymede was the son of Tros which word is identical with
Tau-rus, for T in Hebrew is spelled TAU, and ros is really
rus, which means DEW or manna. It must be noted that
o and u have been used interchangeably in the past. The "son
of dew" is the product of dew, in other words increased dew.
Callirrhoe is a Latin word meaning beautiful flow, therefore
PERFECT RHYTHM, while Dardanus means produce of
Jupiter and Electra, or an electrical current. These two
names are analogous to a beautiful or perfect fluid endowed
with the fire of life. This is exactly the nature of the saline
solution of the blood when in a perfect condition. Bio
chemistry (Schuessler's) informs us that this solution is a
VITALIZING fluid, because Natrium mur is a vitalized
(electric) salt. The latter has the power to increase vitality,
and those in whom it is very deficient are devitalized. They
arise in the morning tired, sometimes more weary than on
retiring. Sleep has not refreshed them because of the fact
Note: The water of Aquarius indeed flows into and through Vishnu, the
Southern Fish of Pisces.
[294]
Aquarius and Natrium Mur
that the blood corpuscles themselves were unable to be re
vitalized during the cerebral rest.
Natrium mur is by nature a catalyst.
Some accounts state that Ganymede was Deucalion, son of
Prometheus, who was translated to heaven in memory of the
mighty deluge, from which only he and Pyrrha were saved.
As Pyrrha means fire, and Deucalion means celestial stone, it
is obvious that the blood stream is referred to, particularly
since it is said that Deucalion and Pyrrha repeopled the earth
after the deluge by throwing stones backward over their
shoulders.
Aquarius is associated by the Kabbalists with the fourteenth
letter N, or NUN. This letter literally means Jesus or fish,
and is therefore apropos.
In Hebrew Scriptures this letter is allocated with
temperance. This furnishes much food for thought. As
Aquarius is concerned with the Heavenly Fluid, not only
watery but fiery, the fluid which tends to devitalize mankind, it
is evident that any fluid which tends to devitalize him is bound
to be banished.
The following statement is not in the nature of a prophecy,
but the scientific working out of a problem. The solar system
has entered into the sphere or atmosphere of Aquarius, and
therefore everything will be permeated with that atmosphere.
As a result, all that is impregnated with it will slowly but
surely commence to vibrate with it.
The generally accepted interpretation of temperance is total
abstinence from liquor. An archaic meaning is SELF-
CONTROL. Naturally this means that the lower self is
subject to the Higher Self. One can not even imagine the
God-Self in man suggesting that he drink intoxicating liquor.
The word intoxicant means that "which POISONS
WITHIN. Its use changes the temper, the nature, of man
at once.
The aqua pura or purified and chemically perfect Water
of Life, as stated before, is vitalizing. Fire water, which is
the old Indian name for alcoholic beverages, is devitalizing.
Under its effect mankind becomes helpless. The intelligence
ceases to function; and, instead of acting as a human being
endowed with the Spirit of God, man descends into the depths.
The clarion call of Nature and Nature's God to mankind
has now gone forth. The Son of Man in man demands his
[295]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
own, and will no longer be denied. His cry
is,
"Cease tortur
ing me, cease drying up the River of Life with products of
fermentation. Cease wasting
!"
When one realizes that the fluids of the body
in
the average
person are poisoned with the toxic products of fermentation,
the result of overeating and wrong diet,
it
is
no wonder that
the alcohol within the human body cries out for company.
Few realize how they handicap themselves
in
this way. They
actually create the tempter within their own bodies.
Alcohol
is
a poison because
it
is
not
a
NATURAL con
stituent of the human body. The best medical practitioners
are ceasing to use it. The other class advise its use.
The great trouble with mankind
is,
that with the brain cells
chemically disorganized and filled with toxic poisons,
it
is
men
tally and nervously distraught, and finds itself utterly unable to
raise its vibrations. As
a
result
it
deliberately lowers them.
It
is
encouraging to find many who are realizing this, and
hence are doing everything
in
their power to improve the
character of the body cells. As
a
result, they are assisting
Nature to work out the salvation of mankind. Our brain cells
are none too good let us improve them, instead of doing
that which injures them daily.
Lack of temperance means that the sword of character
is
not tempered to withstand there
is
lack of self-control. Wars
and strife, civic and national, can not entirely disappear until
the very cells of the body cease their continual turmoil and
warfare, fighting and struggling to get out of and away from
the debilitating, disorganizing and devitalizing fluids surround
ing them. These are truly the chemical result of man's ig
norance.
And so the fiat has gone forth. Liquor MUST GO.
It
is
not
a
matter of what any of us wish,
it
is
the definite work
ing out of
a
law. Nature
is
preparing now to specialize
in
a
certain definite work which has not been done for twelve times
2160 years, not since the previous entrance of the entire solar
system into the sign of Aquarius. Naturally this can not be
accomplished
in
one generation.
It
can not be done until
a
sufficient number have suffered enough from the effects of the
use of liquor, and until excessive eating ceases. This
is
why
gluttony
is
given as the first obstacle to entrance into the king
dom of Heaven (harmony-health).
[296]
Aquarius and Natrium Mur
It is not liquor alone which must go, but everything that
in any way is detrimental to the creation of the New Man.
All will slowly but surely be removed.
As mechanical inventions pertaining to the air and unseen
forces are constantly being brought forth, keen, clear, alert
minds must direct them. Otherwise disaster results. Old
Dobbin would see that his master arrived home safely, even
though the reins were wound around the whip which never
left its socket. But mechanical conveyances must be guided
efficiently, otherwise physiological disorganization swiftly
follows.
The Aquarian Age is that of aviation, and eventually we
will find airships constructed of very light material, air tight
and capable of rising far up beyond storm areas, where they
will travel at far greater speed than is now imaginable. We
do not yet dream of what is possible for the air-minded genius
to create.
The consciousness of man must expand. His head must be
lifted up, he must see the Sun, the stars, the light, at last. Note
how the Spirit, cabined, confined and all but submerged, is
nevertheless causing man to do the very thing which will
eventually create the habit of looking upward ! Even our per
verted system of commercialism is not without its good points;
for, acted on by the vibrations of Aquarius, man is becoming
Air-Minded. He is using illuminated airplanes at night for
advertising, and radio broadcasting from planes in the day
time. Handbills are dropped from planes, thus covering a
wide area in a short time. Speed is demanded in all things,
speed to keep pace with radio waves.
All this has come about since Uranus neared Aries, which
it entered in 1928 and in which sign it will remain until 1935,
its stay being seven years in each sign. Re-read the chapter
on Aries in connection with this. Those who have hitherto
thought and spoken disparagingly of astrology, should be con
vinced, after reading this book, that it is a legitimate science
and a very noble one. They will not be blamed for their for
mer opinions, since the esoteric side of astrology has been con-
» sidered very little. This will be changed, however, as earnest
astrologers become more and more air-minded.
In presenting the facts concerning which astrology alone
furnishes explanation, another curious phase of advertising
[297]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
must not be omitted. The use of lighting effects, both white
and colored, and especially the latter, has become general.
This also owes its inception to the approach of Uranus into
Aries. Buildings have been given HEAD lights, and their
intriguing beauty has served and is serving to attract the atten
tion. Thus color has been brought into prominence.
So penetrating and far-reaching are the vibrations of
Uranus, that its effect is felt long before it enters a sign. That
"Future events cast their shadows before," is quite true. The
brilliant diamond of the white light of intelligence is broken
up by mental processes and angles of thought, into all the
colors of the spectrum. As Uranus literally shakes heaven
and earth, so does it stir up the minds of men.
Who is there who does not love color? The less dull and
heavy and the more clear and pure it
is,
the more
it
attracts.
As Pisces pertains (among other things) to the feet, when
Uranus the great iconoclast and disturber of customs, beliefs
and opinions (not of truth), entered the sign of Pisces
in
1921, styles
in
footwear were subjected to
a
startling change.
Shoes
in
all shades and colors resulted. Aside from
a
very
few light colors for evening footwear, the standard colors up
to that time were black, brown or gray. Never within the
memory of the oldest person living has there been such color
ful covering for feet.
And as Uranus neared Aries
in
1928,
a
very unique change
resulted. For, recalling the fact that the serpent with its tail
in
its mouth (thus forming
a
circle)
is
the ancient symbol of
the cerebral hemispheres, serpent-skin shoes appeared and
became very popular for
a
time, the use of this skin extending
to bags, coats, etc., etc.
The explanation of all this
is,
that each sign of the zodiac
is
related to certain definite matters.
A
particular work
is
done, and as each planet enters the sign the work
is
done
in
a
certain way, taking on various shades and colorings.
It
is
not difficult to realize that the effect of Uranus
in
Aries
is
to loosen, to shake up, to scatter. But
it
must be
realized that
it
does not affect that which
is
heavenly, high,
pure or true. So we are encouraged by the thought that, while
at present humanity seems to be
in
a
chaotic condition,
it
is
merely because
it
is
being shaken out of its former uncertain
(because perverted) ideas. When we were mentally blind, wc
thought we were happy. Now that we are being aroused
[298]
Aquarius and Natrium Mur
from our lethargy, we are beginning at last to dream of what
PEACE is like.
All cycles of seven are potent. A common example is the
Moon cycle, or period of 28 days (four times seven). Every
woman is aware of this. Its influence, however, extends
throughout all nature. The seven days of the week, and the
seven planets, are examples. There are many more. The cycle
of Uranus is seven years. The position of this planet in the
horoscope of any individual, is the key whereby new and
decided changes in his life may be studied. This can be done by
noting the planet's position every seven years on the birthday.
This process of analysis can be brought down to a fine point
by using the two and one-half degree divisions mentioned
several times in these pages.
The following is the method:
Suppose the birthday falls on January 1, and the year of
birth was 1880. The present age (1931) is 51. If the mind
is clear and memory good, outstanding events may be recalled
which occurred at the age of 21, and some may be able to
think of much earlier happenings which made decided im
pressions on the mind. Begin by looking up the position of
Uranus on January 1, 1929, which would be the seventh cycle.
The seventh birthday represented the close of the first cycle,
and the forty-ninth birthday the end of the seventh cycle.
As the eighth occurs in 1936, the middle of the present year
(1931) would represent half a cycle and a very gradual
change in affairs would be noticeable.
Returning to the illustration, it is found that on January
first, 1929, Uranus was in three and one-half degrees of Aries
and in the Taurus vibration. (The first two and one-half
degrees are decidedly those of Aries). As Taurus relates to
possessions, not only concrete but abstract (mental), this
analysis, allocation and synthesis of times, seasons and events,
will be very interesting. It will invariably be found that the
mental trend at that time was toward things of a Taurian
nature. Physiologically, a disturbance in the fluidic content
of the cerebral cells would be likely to occur, as well as other
symptoms.
Those completing a seven year cycle this year will doubtless
note disturbances and changes in respect to health, employ
ment, relatives, partnerships and marriage; for Uranus has
[299]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
been traveling back and forth between the Virgo and Libra
degree of Aries, causing decided upsets.
Whether these cycle recurrences will bring about positive
and constructive, or negative and destructive, reactions, depends
entirely, as before stated, on one's chemical condition. A
deficiency in the mineral content of the blood prevents all
parts, and any one part, of the physical machinery from being
able to set up the same vibration which Uranus manifests. If
no deficiency existed (which is true of none yet) great
happiness, peace and true prosperity would manifest.
As Uranus means change, we need not fear, as many do,
that the world is to be destroyed, which is the common inter
pretation of "the end of the world." The word world is
derived from whorl, circle, or cycle.
It is indeed true that the earth itself is now changing, as
anyone can see merely by reading the newspapers. But greater
changes are in store. Uranus' journey through Aries is affect
ing the opposite sign Libra. The scale pans are wobbling,
the balance point is quivering. At this time, the earth's balance
is being checked by the mighty cosmic power. In its readjust
ment, some parts of the globe will go down, while at the same
time islands will appear; new continents will rise; land will be
purified, restored, refreshed. "And there shall be a new
heaven and a new earth." This will be literally and physio
logically true.
Since Heaven reflects all that takes place on earth, the
minds of men and women are affected, unconsciously or other
wise. The result
is,
that their thoughts revert to old events
and occurrences. An example, at the present time,
is
the fact
that an expedition has started out to explore the region around
the Azores, and to make extensive soundings with the express
purpose of endeavoring to check the disappearance of
a
large
continent called Atlantis. Plato referred to this continent in
his writings, which proves that this myth
is
merely the ghost
of something very substantial.
This
is
truly the time when we must choose whom we will
serve, for we can not have two masters. One will be loved
and the other denied.
To be capable of looking up, to be able to endure the
brilliancy of highly vibrating colors, we must stand on our
own feet, physically as well as mentally. Thus
a
clear brain,
a
clean and active liver, and
a
strong heart are absolutely
[
300
]
Aquarius and Natrium Mur
necessary. Otherwise one will become faint and dizzy.
Gluttony, drinking, drugs and sexuality arc degenerating and
devitalizing. We are dealing with physiological facts, not
ideas nor opinions.
One of the interpretations of Aquarius
is,
that
it
has to
do with friends. One's best friend
is
the Spirit of God
within. The kind of treatment this Best Friend receives
depends upon one's physical and mental reaction. Therefore,
Shakespeare's splendid admonition, "to thine own self be true
and then 'twill follow as the night the day, thou cans't not
then be false to any man,
"
is
very apropos here. The state
ment that Aquarius relates to friends, refers first and fore
most to this Friend within.
Hopes and wishes form another interpretation of this sign.
Our hope
is
in
Heaven,
in
the Holy of Holies within the
cerebrum, the place of potential light and peace, the home
of the Spirit. What each one wishes,
is
entirely
in
keeping
with his mental ability to choose what is best for him. The
popular slogan, "learn to get what you want"
is
a
perversion
of the real issue, and exceedingly misleading and pernicious.
It
eventually will be heard no more, along with many of its
companion slogans.
Mr. G. A. Gaskell says of Aquarius: "It
is
a
symbol of the
eleventh period of the cycle of life.
It
signifies the buddhic
vehicle of the Spirit, as the container of Truth (water) from
the fountain of Divine Reality.
It
refers to the rise of con
sciousness through the lower buddhic plane, far advanced in
the present period of evolution."
The same writer refers to the Fountain of Waters as "a
symbol of the source of Life, as an outpouring of Truth from
above."
John Milton,
in
Areopagitica, says: "Truth
is
compared
in
Scriptures to
a
streaming fountain;
if
her waters flow not
in
a
perpetual progression, they sink into the muddy pool of
conformity and tradition."
"In the beginning this (world) was water. Water produced
the true, and the true
is
Brahman." Brihad, Upanishad,
V-5'L
"I am the great God who created himself, that
is
to say,
I
am Water, that
is
to say, No, the father of the gods, or as
others say, Ra, the creator of the names of his members which
turned into the gods." Papyrus
of
Hunefer, XVII.
[301]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
"And the more learned among the priests think that Homer,
like Thales, had learned from the Egyptians to lay down that
Water was the beginning and origin of all things, for that
his Ocean is Osiris, and his Tethys Isis, as nursing and help
ing to breed up all things." Plutarch, Isis and Osiris.
"Water and earth these were the two elements out of
which the old inhabitants of Eridu believed the world to have
been formed. It was the theory of Thales in its primitive
shape." Sayce, Religion of Ancient Babylon, p. 139.
"Water is the first element in the mundane system of the
Chinese." Kidd, China, p. 161.
"The emanation which produced the creation of the universe
is like water gushing out from its source and spreading over
everything near." The Geberol, Myer, Kabbalah, p. 195.
"For the Man Regenerate is always the transmutation of
the 'water' of his own Soul into the 'Wine of the Divine
Spirit.' " The Perfect Way.
The above quotation is the explanation of turning water
into wine. The idea that Jesus wished to provide refresh
ment for the guests at the wedding in Galilee, and so manu
factured wine on the spot, is absurd. What is more, it could
not possibly have had any bearing on religion, or aided in
any way whatsoever in purifying mind and body. On the
other hand, when one understands that it refers to the
cleansing and transmutation of body and mind, he sees the
story's inestimable value.
In the light of all that has been here given relative to this
sign, its ruling planets, etc., it should not be difficult to see
why Aquarius has two rulers, Saturn and Uranus. For the
former is analogous to seed, or the fertile corpuscles (fish) ;
and the latter, Uranus, is the Spirit which vitalizes the water
of Aquarius. Saturn rules the "night" or material side or
interpretation of the sign, while Uranus rules the "day" or
Spiritual nature. Charts must be studied with this in mind.
Dr. Carey's allocation of Natrium mur or sodium chloride
to this sign, is at once seen to be correct. As stated before in
this chapter, it must always be borne in mind that sodium
chloride is the ATTRACTOR of water. As the physical
body is practically 97 percent water (or to be accurate,
watery or fluidic), it is evident that a large quantity of this
salt is always required in order that the physiological func
tions may proceed as they were originally intended.
[302]
Aquarius and Natrium Mur
Dr. Carey says of this salt: "With the exception of
phosphate of lime, the human system contains more sodium
chloride than any other inorganic salt. The reason for this
may be readily understood when we realize that our bodies
are about 70 per cent water, which, in the absence of sodium
chloride would be inert and useless. It is the power that this
salt has to use water that renders it of any value to man. The
same holds good in plants and vegetable life."
As the body must be flushed with water in order to carry
off the waste products, it is necessary as a catalyst, and there
fore is equally needed in tearing down as in construction.
Uranus rules vaporous or moist air in the head, so that this
part of the anatomy becomes greatly disorganized when the
sodium chloride content of the blood becomes very low. In
whatever part of the body circulation is very slow (which may
be determined by Saturn's position), either insufficient or
excess fluid will be noted. When too little fluid is present,
the brain tissues become dry, and one suffers from insomnia.
The head is quickly affected by the hot rays of the sun, and
this must be guarded against, for they draw what little water
remains. Sodium chloride
is,
therefore, the remedy for sun
stroke. The situation
is
similar
in
delirium tremens, for the
water content
is
broken up by the great alcoholic content.
Therefore sodium chloride must be administered
in
generous
doses. When there
is
too little fluid
in
the head and the upper
parts of the body, there
is
usually (although there are excep
tions) too much in the extremities. The ankles and limbs
are likely to swell, and dropsical tendencies may develop.
When the brain tissue contains too much fluid,
it
causes
drowsiness, and tendency to fall asleep when the mind
is
not
occupied with something interesting. The medical profession
will learn, not long hence, that the mysterious disease termed
"sleeping sickness"
is
not caused by any one of the following
list of microbes kept on the physician's visiting list
:
distomum
hepaticum; distomum lanceolatum; coccidium lanceolatum;
coccidium oviform, echinococcic polymorphus; bothriocephalus
latus; that "Freebooter of the highway" (as Dr. Carey terms
it), ankylostomum duodenale; dochimus tringoncephalus and
stenocephalus. There are others, constituting
a
long list of
terrifying names for which Latin lexicons have been searched.
The cause of "sleeping sickness"
is
easy to trace because of
the clear light that astro-biochemistry throws on it. The brain
[303]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
contains a great excess of fluid, therefore THOUGHT IS
ACTUALLY SUBMERGED, LITERALLY DROWNED.
Many of those deficient in Natrium mur (very frequently
those born when the Sun is in Leo) either do not care for
water, or are unable to retain it long after drinking it. This
is easily explained by the fact that the cells of the body do
not contain sufficient sodium chloride particles to attract
water. Hence, when it enters the stomach, they are not present
to seize upon and carry it around and distribute to the parts
requiring it.
Lack of thirst no desire to drink water arises from the
same cause. When a sufficient number of Natrium mur
particles are present, their call for water manifests in thirst,
and constitutes a decided chemical pull. It is easy to under
stand that a person whose blood is sufficiently supplied with
this wonderful salt, would not succumb so easily to thirst
when traveling in the desert and lacking a water supply.
Some moisture would be drawn from the air, especially during
the night.
The human body slowly becomes parched and dry when
this much-needed salt diminishes in quantity. The brain fluids
decrease, and this organ and gland becomes unreceptive to any
downpour of heavenly dew.
So, too, with the soil which lacks this salt. The ground
becomes arid and barren, for nothing can grow without
absorption of water. In those parts of the country where
irrigation is made necessary by lack of rain during the grow
ing season, if the soil were supplied with sodium chloride in
the proper proportion, much more moisture would be obtained
at night from the atmosphere. The sodium chloride in the soil
would actually aid condensation, and in the morning vegeta
tion would be found to be quite damp. This would decrease
the need for irrigation, which in itself constitutes quite a
saving.
There is a soil food which has not been generally known
but which has been in use many years, not only in this country,
but abroad. It is called Stone Meal. It is obtained from a
composite rock, which, by analysis, is found to contain all the
mineral elements necessary for a chemically balanced soil.
It is thus capable of producing chemically perfect food, per
fectly to nourish mankind. It is ground to a very fine powder.
Insects and pests are conspicuous by their absence when
[304]
Aquarius and Natrium Mur
the mineral content of the soil is balanced, for healthy products
result. Hence there is nothing to support the life of these
scavengers of nature, and they disappear, or go to other fields
where decaying matter exists.
Splendid endorsement is given Stone Meal by all who
conscientiously test it. It is stated that, even in times of
drought, gardens supplied with it flourish, while those not
thus fortunate become parched and dry.
Those engaged in the business of supplying this Stone Meal
to all who are interested in using it are real humanitarians.
They are indeed benefactors of mankind. The late W. N.
McCrillis, of Boston, Mass., was the original dispenser of
this splendid product. The business has been recently re
organized under the name MENDERTH, INC., with offices
at 126 State St., Boston. It is backed by F. H. Bennett, the
altruistic founder of the Wheatsworth Line of real whole
wheat products.
In addition to soil deficiencies practically over all this
country (in itself a great calamity), humanity is still further
handicapped because of the denatured food which has flooded
the markets. So great is the greed and avariciousness of those
who have no consideration for their fellow-men, that it is re
freshing to find individuals not of this character. Many
years ago the author heard of these two products, Stone Meal
and Wheatsworth, and because of their similarity, in a way,
to the work of Dr. Carey and herself, made it her business
to investigate both.
Wheatsworth products, consisting of whole wheat flour,
cereal and crackers, are made from the best hard wheat
obtainable, cleaned and ground in the unique old mill which
has been modernized by Mr. Bennett. The old water wheel
is still used. The mill and Gingerbread Castle are interesting
and instructive show-places in Hamburg, New Jersey.
The Gingerbread Castle of Hansel and Gretel, executed in
poured concrete, is a New Age method of advertising, since
the sole object of its construction is to assist in educating
potential citizens (the coming generation), relative to their
need for brain and body-building food. Mr. Bennett's
products are all of this nature. The idea of building this
unique castle occurred to him when he saw the original,
designed by the famous architect, Joseph Urban, for the stage
setting of the second act of the opera, "Hansel and Gretel."
[305]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
The author offers this book not only as a memorial to
Dr. Carey, but to Julius Hensel, to the author of Bread and
Roses From Stones, to Mr. McCrillis, Mr. F. H. Bennett,
and all others who are mineral-minded or altruistic chemists,
for surely in no better way can humanity be helped to stand
on its own feet. Mineral is MOTHER, and Spirit (energy) in
Nature and in man, is unable to manifest without it.
Returning to the subject of the effect on the body due to
Natrium mur deficiency, we find that a very prevalent symp
tom is eczema. This salt is almost a specific for this trouble,
but the fact must never be lost sight of, that the astro-chemical
analysis alone will furnish the accurate key to any condition;
for, as stated before, there are always four salts which must
be used for any symptom. The work on The Biochemic
System of Body Building and Astro-analysis, which will be
published in a few months, will deal with all phases of this
subject.
Calcium sulph should be used in connection with Natrium
mur to relieve the burning, which latter constitutes a modality
indicative of deficiency in Calcium sulph. The intense itching
is a Natrium mur modality. To the degree in which Ferrum
phos is deficient, will inflammation and soreness accompany
the other forms of irritation. Again, the flesh fibers them
selves may be involved, and the "spinning salt" Kali mur be
greatly needed to form the foundation fibers or threads of
flesh.
A solution made of these salts, and applied to the irritated
parts, soothes and heals miraculously. It must be remembered,
however, that all skin troubles are caused by impure and
therefore deficient blood, and that the exterior parts of the
body will be unblemished when this is remedied. No outward
application will serve to correct that which is caused by blood
deficiencies. It is true, however, that the salts are actually
pulled within, and greedily taken up by the starving cells.
Deficiency in Natrium mur causes one to feel very weary
and tired on arising in the morning, sometimes more so than
on retiring. This is likely to result in irritability. No pep
or vitality manifests until long after the morning sun has
dissipated the vapors of night. Rainy days are actually
trouble-breeders for these people, and this holds good also
for those needing another form of sodium, that of Natrium
sulph. The entire body lacks tone and vitality.
[306]
Aquarius and Natrium Mur
All symptoms caused by lack of this salt are productive of
either too little, or too much, water in certain parts. The
following are some of them: too little saliva or too much,
which will be frothy; mouth and tongue dry and parched,
especially in the morning; delirium, with muttering and wan
dering; stupor and sleepiness; delirium tremens; despondent
moods; sun-stroke; dull, heavy and hammering headaches;
neuralgic pains in the eyes, and flow of tears; flow of tears
when associated with cold in the head; dandruff; eruptions on
the scalp, with watery contents; blisters anywhere on the body;
smarting secretions from the eyes; fresh colds with trans
parent mucus and sneezing; hay fever, influenza. It must be
stated here that hay fever and "rose" cold any of these
very unpleasant conditions which are supposed to be caused
by the pollen of certain plants, are due solely to certain mineral
deficiencies which naturally cause the vascular linings to be
insufficiently protected. Thus any particles may cause irrita
tion. But as for blaming plants for
it,
one might as
unjustly blame the Sun for causing weak eyes to burn and
water.
Other symptoms are: swelling of glands under the tongue;
blisters on the tip of the tongue; constant spitting of frothy
mucus; inflammation of the mucus lining of the throat
(a
com
mon symptom)
;
sore throat with excessive dryness; too much
secretion; thin neck; all diseases of the stomach where
watery vomit
is
present; very great craving for salt.
It
must
be here stated that common table salt consists, for the most
part, of particles too coarse to be taken up by the blood cor
puscles. Therefore the blood
is
unable to obtain the quantity
needed. These coarse particles often act as an irritant
in
the
stomach and intestinal tract. Especially
is
this true of those
with low Calcium sulphate content, for the vascular lining
of the organs, including the intestinal tract,
is
quickly irritated
by these salt particles, and "running off of the bowels"
frequently results.
Other symptoms arising from this need are: stinging piles;
catarrh of the bladder; diabetes; chronic gonorrhoea; chronic
syphilis; itching skin; asthma; pleurisy; pulse rapid and inter
mittent heart beats felt all over the body; blood thin and
watery; anemia; "fidgets"; joints cracking and creaking; hys
terical spasms and debility; restlessness and twitching of the
muscles; stings of insects; dropsy and many others too numer
ous to mention here.
[307]
Chapter XII
THE ANALYSIS AND SYNTHESIS OF PISCES
A zodiacal sign of Pisces to remain until March 21.
JThis period covers the last week of February and the
first two weeks of March. Therefore the process of purifica
tion covering the first two weeks of February is consummated
in the last week, and the Water of Life now becomes the
Wine of Life.
The sign Pisces is said, in astrological lore, to pertain to the
feet, physiologically, and is concerned with the following
matters: enemies, prisons, hospitals, limitations, the sea, water
and all places of confinement. But while there are many old
manuscripts in existence dealing with astrology, as Robert
Brown informs us in his Researches into the Origin of the
Primitive Constellations of the Greeks, Phoenicians and Baby
lonians, they have never been translated into the English
language. No modern work on astrology has given the
esoteric meaning of this sign, or explained WHY it has to
do with prisons, hospitals, or with places of confinement, etc.
The reason is made plain in analyzing the word March,
in which month the largest part of this sign falls. It is de
rived from the Latin word margo, meaning boundary, confine,
border, edge, limit, attainment , mark, or extremity. Each of
these interpretations supplies a vast amount of information
relative to this sign.
Pisces is the LAST sign of the zodiac and MARKS the
point or BOUNDARY where the circle of life is cemented
together. It is even more than this IT IS LIFE ITSELF.
"And God breathed into man the Breath of Life and he
became a Living Soul." An infant may be born with a seem
ingly perfect body, but unable to breathe. When a pulmotor
is unable to initiate breath, it is because the chemical medium
or contactor of oxygen is extremely deficient. The mother of
[308]
Pisces and Ferrum Phos
the child is unable to furnish its blood with the required
amount to start the breathing process. Ferrum phos or iron
is the inorganic salt required to attract oxygen into the lungs;
therefore Dr. Carey's allocation of this substance to Pisces, is
a splendid proof of his intuition. It is a chemical fact that
never can change.
To return to the analysis of the word March, we find that
the word extremity is frequently used when speaking of the
feet. The feet are the extremities. Pisces is the last sign,
the foundation on which the entire body rests. If the feet
give no trouble, one can stand on them without causing them
to feel tired. One can also travel far, indulging in long walks.
Metaphysically, Pisces relates to understanding. When the
understanding is active, one can travel far mentally.
In Pisces, we find the gauge by which all life is measured,
the mental, moral and physical standing, or development. It
is the mark (peg) which indicates the stage or place which one
has reached on his journey. The three decans of this sign
represent respectively DEGENERATION, GENERATION
and REGENERATION. A very few are living the law
necessary in the present phase of evolution. Spirits must
return into physical bodies to work out salvation, which literal
ly means to PERFECT THE VEHICLE therefore, bodies
must be supplied.
"Only one in 999,999," says Madam Blavatsky, "is really
engaged in the GREAT WORK, that of endeavoring to
become PERFECT."
The above statements prove that the words mark, attain
ment, or goal apply to Pisces. Therefore, when a life of de
generation is indicated, it is obvious that no ideal, no mark, no
goal of attainment is considered. There is no foundation, no
moral or physical stability by which and on which a strong,
enduring, permanent structure may be erected. Instead of a
mark or goal, it is THE END OF LIFE.
Astrological lore informs us that Pisces stands for the
END OF THINGS. As heel means end (the heel of the
loaf), this is the reason why the back part of the foot, which
is the end of the body, is termed the heel. The head is the
beginning of the body while the extremities constitute the end.
So man, in his last extremity, cries aloud to the Son of Man
to save him, to Jesus, who (St. Augustine, one of the old
Christian fathers, states) is "a FISH WHICH LIVES IN
[309]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
THE MIDST OF THE WATERS." This will be dealt
with further on in this chapter.
Pisces is interpreted as confinement. This is because it is
analogous to the deep, the bottom, the pit. Below this, no
one is able to go. When the depths have been reached, one
is obliged (if life remains in his form) to place the feet
on the first rung of the ladder, to raise the consciousness ever
so little, and to endeavor to look up. Naturally his dull eyes
can not bear the light yet, and indeed very little light is able
to penetrate the darkness. But he is going toward
it,
which
is
the all-important fact.
The word march means to set out. This refers to
a
great
mystery, for there are two journeys which may be considered.
One
is
inevitably chosen. The first
is
the setting out of the
Spirit into physical manifestation, from the realm of the
invisible. Orders are received to enter again into the material
body, and begin the March
of
Life once more to begin
again the work of building
a
better vehicle.
The combined vibrations produced by the planets
in
certain
positions, are the means whereby the Spirit
is
once more drawn
to earth. The previous form or instrument used
in
its last
incarnation,
is
the means of deciding what the next must be.
For the work must be taken up where
it
was left off. Nothing
else
is
logical. Another school day has begun, and there are
lessons to learn.
Thus from the realms of the unseen the Spirit prepares to
manifest again, entering the arterial system of the mother
through the breath. Unless the reincarnating Spirit
is
present,
conception can not take place, for what
is
true of spiritual con
ception and birth
is
also true of physical conception and birth;
the only difference being that one
is
on
a
higher plane or level.
The statement
in
Matthew
1
:18, expresses the fact that the
Spirit must be present. "Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on
this wise
:
When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph,
BEFORE THEY CAME TOGETHER, she was found
with
a
child of the Holy Ghost." As Holy Ghost literally
means perfect breath, the correctness of the above will be
seen. In the Latin lexicon we find that the reference may be
to the shade or ghost of
a
particular person.
Much research has revealed the fact that Pisces has to do
with the ARTERIAL BLOOD, for
it
is
the blood into which
air or oxygen enters (this refers to the moist air of
[310]
Pisces and Ferrum Phos
Aquarius, the Water of Life). It is purified by both and
has become transmuted into the WINE OF LIFE, the true
blood of the grape. The entering of air into the blood via
the lungs has been previously referred to as the miracle at the
marriage feast, when Jesus turned water into wine.
Pisces, then, stands for the end of a cycle of Spiritual
existence BEYOND THE VEIL, and the entrance of the
Spirit into a new body.
It also refers to the fact that the Spirit leaves the body at
death. Breath ceases no more oxygen enters the blood
through the lungs. The process of combustion and purifica
tion ceases, and, as a result, decomposition sets in. The Spirit
which held the mineral particles together (the matrix or
nucleus of each cell) departs, for it has not been supplied
with sufficient material to enable it to remain. "Can a man
rob God, but ye have robbed me in tithes and offerings."
Malachi 3:8.
"For the life of the flesh is in the blood; for it is the blood
that maketh atonement for the soul." Lev. 17:11. Here
is a concrete statement, it is physiological and chemical. When
all the mineral elements which constitute chemically perfect
blood are present in the veins and arteries, the blood is in a
state of at-one-ment and therefore is able to make atonement
for the soul, which is the sum total of the etheric fluids, those
of nerves and glands.
Disease (lack of at-one-ment) or deficiency (sin) is the
cause of death. Otherwise none would die. To think one
can step out of the picture and thus rid one's self of the task
of perfecting the human body (which was planned to become a
church), is to side-step the issue. It can not be done. Re
incarnation will take place again and again until the task
is completed. Then, as the Scriptures state, we shall "GO
NO MORE OUT."
How little the majority think. The newspapers tell of a
man's death. He was "in perfect health" up to that moment.
God or Providence "called" him. These statements would
be funny if they were not so pathetically lacking in logic.
Barring accidents, it is utterly impossible for one in perfect
health (if such exist) or even in moderate health, to pass on.
The Creator made laws relative to right living; and, when
teriorate, the intake of vital electricity decreases, and death
inevitably results.
mental processes de-
[311]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Blood, composed as it is of chemical elements, IS
MATTER. If the blood is the life of the flesh, how, then,
can matter be dead and without life, as some claim? Such a
viewpoint is contrary to actual scientific findings. When one
considers that each kind of mineral may be seen vibrating
with life, and emitting certain definite colors, the statement
that there is no life in matter is absurd. That which is termed
matter is the coarsest (per se) form of Spirit, while the latter
is the finest of matter. Therefore there is only ONE THING.
One may call it matter or Spirit, mother or father. They
are, in essence, one and the same. In Latin, matter is mater
or mother, the formative substance. The latter word is de
rived from the Latin substare, meaning to stand under. Mat
ter
is,
then, the foundation of life. As matter stands under
Spirit,
it
is
its SUPPORT. Vice versa, Spirit supports matter.
As we look about us, we see trees, hills, mountains, valleys
and rivers. We see moving objects. We observe, also, the
handiwork of man, as well as that of God. What makes this
possible? MATTER. Otherwise there would be nothing to
look at AND NO EYES TO LOOK WITH.
How frequently we read this advertisement "Come and
learn how to breathe correctly and thus improve the health."
It
will be consigned to the mental scrap-heap after the study
of life chemistry. "God breathed into man the breath of
life, and he became
a
living soul." What does this mean,
what
is
its interpretation? Divinity or Spirit enters man
through the breath. Breath
is
Spirit.
It
has been explained that Ferrum or iron
is
a
powerfully
magnetic salt which has
a
tremendous affinity for oxygen.
Oxygen seeks to combine with iron wherever found. This is
the explanation of the entrance of ether into the depths of
earth. Iron
is
there to pull
it
within. And so, too,
in
the
depths of the human or earthy body there must be the full
quota of iron to attract sufficient Spirit fully to energize each
atom. Otherwise they perish, one
by
one.
Man breathes easily, freely, fully, unconsciously, when
there
is
no deficiency in iron (Ferrum). God (Spirit)
in
him
does the breathing. On going out doors where there
is
more
oxygen, the process at once becomes deeper. One never thinks
of the breath until hampered by insufficient iron.
Here we have the scientific explanation for the feeling of
depression and discouragement. There
is
a
certain definite
[312]
Pisces and Ferrum Phos
air pressure within the body, in health, and in the light of
chemical knowledge we know it is due to the iron content in
the body. When this remarkable salt is very deficient, it
naturally follows that the air pressure ON the body far ex
ceeds that within. This causes a feeling of oppression or
depression. The psychologist is unable to explain the cause
or to offer assistance in eliminating this symptom. To call it
a "complex" buries it literally out of sight. Without bio
chemistry it IS too "complex" ever to be solved.
It is interesting to note that the word frontier, which is
one of the interpretations of March, is derived from the Latin
frons, meaning forehead or countenance. In architecture it
has reference to the face of a building. Pisces is adjacent
to Aries, which latter is the countenance.
A marcher is one who treads the pathway of life. Marcus
means hammer of Thor. This is analogous to the function
of iron, for it emits sparks. Here we link up with the spark
of life which is Spirit. We connect the circle of synonyms with
the statement that iron, which emits sparks, draws in oxygen
to complete and close the circle of life. The 360 links of the
circle must be forged together.
To march, means also to travel steadily, to advance, to
progress. It is a steady onward movement.
Some of the poets have sensed what is meant by the march
of life, for instance Pope, in the following:
"The long, majestic, march, and energy divine."
while Bryant describes the month of March in these words :
"The stormy March is come at last,
With wind and cloud and changing skies."
Neptune is the positive ruler of Pisces. In other words, it
represents the rate of vibration which alone is capable of per
forming true Piscean work.
In the Latin lexicon nepa means water-scorpion. It also
refers to the three water (fluid) signs collectively Pisces,
Scorpio and Cancer. This implies that germs of life are to
be found in water, or, more specifically, in fluid of which water
forms a part.
Nephale means a cloud, which of course is watery vapor.
A nephalist is a total abstainer from spiritous liquor. This
is essential if one wishes eventually to be able to create, and
to respond to, the vibration of Neptune, the highest and finest
force in the universe.
[313]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Neptune is the most remote planet in our solar system.
Fourteen (twice seven) years are required for it to transit
each sign, thus making the circuit of the zodiac in one hundred
And sixty-eight years. All things in existence have been said
to originate from water. This makes the true origin or
source of anything, remote. The highest and finest vibration
is naturally the farthest away from one's conception. It is
analogous, therefore, to concealment. The negative inter
pretation of Pisces is therefore deceit. The positive significa
tion is perfection and purity. Comparing these two inter
pretations, we easily realize that we are not yet able to claim
any close association with Neptune. Indeed, humanity, as a
whole, has not yet even touched the hem of its pure garment.
In Greek mythology Neptune is the sea, the divine monarch
of the ocean. The Saxons called Neptune BEN. This is
interesting, for it at once calls to mind the Hebrew interpreta
tion of Ben, which is SON, one of the carriers of the Ark.
Benjamin was the thirteenth child, and was born near Beth
lehem the "house of bread." This is analogous to Virgo,
the House of the Virgin, whence came the Bread of Life.
The sixth house of the zodiac, and the sixth division of the
human body, are perfected only because all twelve function
perfectly, after becoming chemically perfect. Thirteen is
analogous to the perfect thing created therefrom therefore
the SON. Until we are able to perfect the circle, we are
unlucky because unhealthy, imperfect, and unclean.
The ancients pictured Neptune as having his palace in the
depths of the sea, but he made his home on Olympus when
he chose. As Aries is Olympus, the close relationship of these
two signs is indicated. It is also analogous to the circulation
of fluid from head to feet.
The symbol of Neptune's power was the trident, or three-
pronged spear, analogous to the three decans of Sagittarius,
the higher mind. This trident was supposed to be used to
catch fish. But there is a much better interpretation. An old
word for spear is sprawn, which is a crustacean. Neptune's
chariot was drawn by two horses (Hippocampos) each having
only two legs, the hinder part of the body being that of a fish.
He was the son of Saturn (Cronus or Kronus), which is
analogous to saying that he represented the water in the Urn.
There were two dynasties of the sea, Neptune representing
the younger. The older, which flourished during the time of
[314]
Pisces and Ferrum Phos
Saturn, refers to the fact that the first appearance of water
or fluid was in the brain pan, or urn. Greek mythology informs
us that from this older dynasty sprang three thousand rivers,
and ocean-nymphs unnumbered. The brain pan or skull con
tains, and is the fountain-head of life, receiving the precipi
tated etheric vapors which constitute the cerebral esse.
Athens was the chosen seat of Neptune as well as
Minerva, which literally means that fluid as well as wisdom
has its source in Aries. It is said in mythology that "these
two deities, during the reign of Cecrops (source of wisdom)
the first king of Athens, had contended for the possession of
the city (place of wisdom). The gods decreed that it should
be awarded to the one who produced the gift most useful to
mortals. Neptune gave the horse (Higher Mind) ; Minerva
produced the olive. The gods awarded the city to the goddess,
and after its Greek appellation it is named." As the olive
is the source of oil (Christ), the true interpretation of
Minerva is the same as Virgo.
Neptune invades territory belonging to all the other gods
meaning that water penetrates everywhere and is present in
all parts of the human body. He rules both fresh and salt
water. He both protects and shakes the earth. The continuous
oscillation of the latter is caused by the tremendous push and
pull of water. When Neptune's waters become foul,
monsters are bred. This is analogous to impure blood.
Neptune is the special ruler of the arterial blood. As earth-
shaker, he causes convulsions of nature.
Orion, the Mighty Hunter (man), is the son of Neptune
literally brought forth from the water.
The ancients pictured the two fishes of Pisces bonded
together, the bond or ribbon running to Cetus, the Sea
Monster, with one foot of the Lamb tangled in its double end.
Pisces is also the god Dagon of the Philistines. It is the two
fishes with which Jesus fed five thousand people.
A legend of this sign
is,
that "Venus and her son, Cupid,
while sitting on the bank of the Euphrates, suddenly saw
Typhon, the enemy of the gods, approaching them. They
leaped into the river, and were saved from drowning by two
fishes, who were afterwards placed
in
the heavens by Venus
in
gratitude for their help."
At last Venus and Cupid ascend into heaven they are
themselves the fishes, and are thus analogous to Neptune, or
purified lives. As Venus and Cupid, they no longer exist.
[315]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
As the last decan of Aquarius is ruled by Venus, being the
Libra division of the sign, it joins Pisces. Venus, in the legend,
is thus sitting on the bank of the river. The sea monster,
which is an enemy of the gods, is carnality or lust. The two
fishes of regeneration save them, and the transportation to
heaven results.
"He (God) had his dwelling in the Great Sea, and was
a fish therein." Zohar.
"So many fishes bred in the waters, and saved by one great
fish," says Tertullian of the Christians. (Blavatsky, S. D.,
Vol. II, p. 327). It is obvious that the "many fishes" referred
to above are the corpuscles or life-germs. "One great fish"
is the man-fish, or Jesus, the Divine germ which is the product
of a purified and regenerated mind and body. This simply
means being born again of water and the Spirit, Pisces and
Aries. The circle of life is at last forged together with an
adamantine link.
"Oannes was 'an animal endowed with reason . . . whose
body was that of a fish's with feet also below, similar to those
of a man, subjoined to the fish's tail, and whose voice and
language too were articulate and human' (Polhhistor and
Apollodorus) . The fish's head was simply a head-gear, the
MITER worn by priests and gods, made in the form of a
fish's head, and which in a very little modified form is what
we see even now on the heads of the high Lamas and Roman-
ish Bishops. The fish's tail is simply the train of a long, stiff
mantle as depicted on some Assyrian tablets, the form being
seen reproduced in the sacerdotal gold cloth garment worn
during service by the modern Greek priests." Madam
Blavatsky in S. D.
The meaning of the foregoing is evident. The "fish" is
an old and sacred symbol, frequently used in the Mystery-
language. It always refers to the Divine germ, Jesus, the
new man who is born of water and Spirit. The story of Jonah
being swallowed by a fish (not whale) is symbolical of the
real man submerged, swallowed up by the waters of DEGEN
ERATION. IT LITERALLY MEANS THAT NO USE
IS MADE OF THE CREATIVE FLUID.
In Smith's Bible Dictionary, we find that the word Dagon
means "dear little fish, apparently the masculine correlative
of Atargatis and the national god of the Philistines. Dagon
was represented with the face and hands of a man and the
[316]
Pisces and Ferbum Phos
tail of a fish. In the Babylonian mythology the name Dagon
(Odakon) is applied to a fish-like being who rose from the
waters of the Red Sea as one of the great benefactors of man.
The fish-like form was a national emblem of fruitfulness."
Humanity is never truly fruitful until the Divine Son is
born.
Furst says: "The spiritual inspiration of God in man, gives
spiritual power and physical life." The word inspiration
means to breathe in. What better proof can be found of the
correctness of Dr. Carey's allocations; for iron attracts
oxygen, in which is the breath of life, that which elevates,
lifts up, inspires.
Smith says, in his Bible Dictionary : "The secret of a true
life is that a man should consecrate the vigor of his youth to
God. It is well to do that before the night comes, before the
slow decay of age benumbs all the faculties of sense." For,
as the fluid of the body becomes depleted in iron, the cor
puscles (fish-germs) slowly suffocate, and eventually putrefy.
THIS IS THE TRUE CAUSE OF CANCER. Without
iron, combustion can not go on. Kali sulph and Ferrum are,
then, the legitimate cure for this putrid and virulent disease.
This statement can not be found elsewhere.
It is very interesting to note that Smith's Bible Dictionary
gives the definition of iron in Hebrew as piety. As piety
is holiness and true godliness, it is very apropos. Religion is
derived from the Latin word religio and means to tie, to fasten
behind, to bind back. This is clearly seen as analogous to the
joining of the circle, the forging of the link between Pisces and
Aries. When the waters are perfected, purified, the cerebral
fluids will become as crystalline dew.
In Latin, the word Ferrum is derived from the word fero,
meaning to bear, to bring, to carry, and this is the true nature
of this magnetic salt. It bears, brings, carries Oxygen, the
breath of life, the Spirit of God in man.
Where strength and firmness are required, iron is used. Our
strongest machinery is made of it. Iron and steel are used
for the framework of buildings. Its use in the body is exactly
the same for Strength. Therefore, in attracting oxygen
SPIRIT into the body, humanity is supplied with strength
to endure, and to fight for the right.
The following information from the Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica verifies Dr. Schuessler's statement in his Biochemic Sys
[317]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
tern, that Ferrum (iron) as well as the other eleven salts
ARE absorbed by the blood.
"Whether inorganic salts are directly absorbed has been a
matter of much discussion; it has, however, been directly
proved by the experiments of Kunkel and Gaule (Archiv fur
die gesamte Physiologie des Mencken und der Tiere, lxi)."
This should be read by those who, without testing con
scientiously or taking the trouble to inform themselves relative
to the findings of others, strenuously, and even angrily, deny
that the salts are, or can be, absorbed by the blood. Certainly
the extensive practice of Schuessler, whose work is known in
many countries, and who has been honored in his own country
by the erection of a splendid memorial, is evidence of the value
of the science of biochemistry. He rediscovered and made it
available to the people of this age.
Pisces corresponds to the tribe of Naphtali in Biblical lore.
Smith's Bible Dictionary states that "Naphtali occupied a
position north of the Sacred Tent." As it is obvious that this
Tent is none other than Aries, we may rest assured that the
allocation is correct. But we have another means of checking.
Naphtha is derived from the same root as Naphtali, and as it
means a cleansing, it is obvious that the arterial blood (which
is the oxygenated blood) must contain a highly refined oil.
As the word for oil in Greek is Christ, it is clear what is meant
by the statement that "the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth us
from all sin." In very truth, the great work is for each one to
so purify and perfect his blood that it becomes the Christ
blood.
There is much Scriptural evidence to prove that the female
is unclean during the period of the menstrual discharge. As
long as generation persists, so does impurity, therefore
adulteration. In this phase of evolution, humanity may be
correctly termed "an adulterous nation." For as "without the
shedding of blood there is no remission of sin," so until the
female of the race ceases to shed the menstrual blood, and
the necessity for furnishing forms for incarnating egos exists
no longer, sin or deficiency, and hence adulteration, will not
be done away with.
The menstrual or monthly blood is for THE HEALING
OF THE NATION, the twelve tribes or twelve parts of the
body. One of the most pernicious of modern-day teachings
by certain cults, is the practice of endeavoring to bring about
[318]
Pisces and Ferrum Phos
the continuance of this function, and to cause its recurrence
after the menopause has taken place.
When no blood is shed there will be no sin to remit (for
give, give for, make good, return, supply).
The last two signs of the zodiac are the only ones having
two rulers. While Neptune is the positive or spiritual ruler
of Pisces, Jupiter rules its negative interpretation, and stands
for the prodigal son (prodigality). In Biblical lore, the
prodigal son had descended into the depths among the swine
with nothing but husks for food. Eventually he said, as all
will say: "I will arise and return to my father."
In the Babylonian Creation Scheme, we find that Pisces has
several interpretations, such as: pregnant-woman, cord-place,
fish, dusky-one, and great-dragon. In the Euphratean Plani
sphere, Pisces is Se-Kisil, and means: "The Sowing of Seed."
This section of the heavens is termed the great deep, and
many mythological denizens of the sea are found therein, such
as the Sea-goat, the Dolphin, the Sea-monster, the Fishes and
the Sea-horse. It will be noted that these cover the last three
signs of the zodiac, and may be interpreted as moist earth,
humid air and magnetized or vitalized water. In Semitic,
Pisces was Nunu, which reminds us that Nun is fish, in
Hebrew.
In the terminology of Catholicism, a Nun is the bride of
Jesus, and may therefore be termed a female fish. She lives
only to exemplify in herself that perfection which alone is
responsible for the creation of the perfect being. She repre
sents absolute purity of body and mind. Eventually all
women and all men will realize that this is the ultimate ideal,
and begin, at least, TO THINK about it.
It is interesting to note that the sign Aries lies within the
boundaries of the sign Pisces, which is indubitable proof of
their esoteric interrelation and the indissoluble tie existing
between them. Even the Lamb must be nourished with fish.
Aries must receive the food which is necessary for the Lord's
supper, else there is no supper. The SHEWBREAD must
be laid upon the table in the upper chamber.
This is the region of the vernal equinox, the exact position
of which is a comparatively starless area. The Fishes are
termed The Leaders of the Celestial Host. This expression
will be better understood if the fact is recalled that the cor
puscles are physiological fish and therefore the multitude
[319]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
(of cells) must be fed with them. Otherwise anemia and
ultimate starvation will result.
According to Richard Allen, some of the early titles of
Pisces are : The Fishes of Hea or la, Nuni and Zib, the latter
name meaning boundary, as Pisces is the end of the zodiac.
As la and Ja or Ya are synonymous, and represent the first
syllable of the name Jehovah, the name la refers to the origin
of life the beginning.
Smith's Bible Dictionary states that "Zia was one of the
Gadites" which links up again with Aries. Again, Zibiah is
Hebrew for ROE, meaning the eggs of fishes. Atl was the
Aztecs' name for Pisces. This reminds us that the name
Atlantic is of ancient origin, and is derived from the Latin
word atlas, meaning to bear, therefore to create or sup
port. The Divine Fish or life germ within each corpuscle is
its support. This is substantiated by the interpretation of
Piscis Hori, the Coptic term for this sign, which Brown trans
lated as protection.
It is appropriate to explain at this point why astrology has
assigned enemies to Pisces. No explanation is given in any
work on astrology. If the reader has given much time and
thought to the consideration of these pages, a definite con
clusion will have been reached. On being told that Pisces has
to do with enemies many people ask: "If I am born in this sign
am I supposed to make enemies?" It is regrettable that there
are so few works on esoteric astrology at present available.
The true explanation of the word enemy in relation to this
sign
is,
that an enemy
is
one who
is
hostile, an adversary, some
one or something inharmonious. A true friend
is
exactly the
opposite. Aquarius deals with friends those who are human
itarian, altruistic, good. In respect to its physiological inter
pretation, Aquarius
is
the helpful, vitalizing saline solution of
the blood, the Water of Life.
As Pisces
is
a
female and therefore negative sign,
it
has to
do with the basic creative substance. The corpuscles or fish
in
the blood are either harmonious (healthy), therefore
friendly, or they are not. The diseased, unhealthy fish or
corpuscles
in
the blood stream constitute true enemies of the
body. The greater the number, the more pronounced will be
the negative action of the brain. One's acts will therefore be
such as to create enemies without. The true Piscean
is
gentle,
[320]
Pisces and Ferrum Phos
kindly, Christ-like in thought and deed. It is obviously im
possible for such a one to create an enemy.
When the blood stream consists of a majority of "enemies,"
it naturally follows that the cells of the body are inhar
monious. Is it not logical that the mental activities will be lim
ited and confined? One is capable of understanding very little,
and therefore is unable to take any extensive mental journeys.
The more deficient and diseased the brain cells are, the more
distorted and chaotic the actions. Is
it,
then, any wonder that
confinement must inevitably result? Hence the need for
prisons, hospitals and sanitariums. When the former are
eliminated, the latter will be automatically done away with.
The Dark Warrior, as
a
name for Pisces,
is
appropriate,
since the life or contending force
is
hidden within the germ
cells.
Richard Allen says that the sign
in ancient times meant only
one fish, and this no doubt has to do with the "one and only,"
Jesus, THE "fish
in
the midst of the waters." When the
positive and negative or male and female become harmonized
or perfected, this long desired consummation will take place.
Revati, meaning Abundant or Wealthy, and Kwei or Koei
Striding Legs are other ancient names for this sign.
Richard Allen also states that "The Greeks confounded
this divinity with another Syrian goddess, Astarte, identified
with Venus; who precipitated herself, with her son Cupid,
into the Euphrates when frightened by the attack of the mon
ster Typhon; these becoming two fishes that afterwards were
placed in the zodiac. Latin classical authors, with the same
groundwork of the story, make Pisces the fish that carried
Venus and her boy out
of
danger, so that, as Manilius said,
" 'Venus ovp'd her Safety to their Shape.'
"
The constellation was thus known as Venus et Cupido,
Venus Syria cum Cupidine, Venus cum Adone, Dione and
Veneris Mater, and also Urania, the Sarmatian Aphrodite.
All this, perhaps, was the foundation of the Syrian's idea that
fish were divine. They actually abstained from them as an
article of food. Ovid repeats this
in
the Fasti,
in
Gower's
rendering:
"Hence Syrians hate to eat that kind of fishes;
Nor
is
it
fit to make their gods their dishes."
In the light of the information given
in
the preceding
chapters,
it
is
obvious that the above refers not only to fish
[321]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
as food, BUT MORE ESPECIALLY TO "EATING" OR
CONSUMING, UNWORTHILY, THOSE GERMS OF
LIFE WHOSE SOLE PURPOSE IS TO NOURISH THE
GODS IN MAN.
This also explains why, in astrological lore, Venus is said
to be exalted in Pisces, for this vibration has entered the
waters and emerges purified. It
is,
therefore, at the point
of mergence that Venus BECOMES NEPTUNE, for the
latter
is
the HIGHER OCTAVE OF VENUS.
Venus
is
said to be
in
her fall in Virgo because
it
is
the
place of her labor, which she has entered as Mary Magdalene.
She must wash the feet
of
(Pisces) Jesus. She thus begins
the task which she consummates
in
Pisces. Here She Ascends,
is
one with Jesus.
The thinker, the earnest student and searcher for truth
can not help but realize what this story
is
all about, and how
inseparable are chemistry, physiology, religion and astrology.
The first decan of Pisces contains the cord or band holding
the fishes and held by the Lamb, its double end fast to the
neck of Cetus the Dolphin, which
is
sacred to the Sun.
In the second decan of this sign
is
Cepheus,
a
crowned King,
as the great victor and lord, holding
a
band or scepter, and
with his foot planted on the Pole Star.
The third and last decan of Pisces contains Andromeda,
a
woman
in
chains and threatened by the serpents
in
the head
of Medusa. In the next, which
is
the first of Aries, we find
Cassieopia. Here
a
few words of explanation must be given.
In Euphratean star-lore, Cassieopia, as she
is
termed,
is
Kasseba, or Lady-of-corn. In Semetic, she
is
Zir-banitu, the
Creatress-of-seed. Both are easy to understand
in
the light
of esoteric astrology. Corn and seed are synonymous, and
in
this instance are analogous to the cerebral seed, or electrical
nuclei. Elsewhere
in
Euphratean star-lore, Andromeda
is
termed the Pregnant Woman, which
is
not difficult to inter
pret, since Neptune
is
the Virgin and thus truly becomes
THE MOTHER OF GOD ARIES.
The cord binding the two fishes
is
symbolical of the fact
that they must not be separated, and that male and female
must become one
in
order that the Lamb shall no longer be
slain.
Piscis Australia, the Southern Fish,
is
seen "drinking," as
Richard Allen states, "the whole outflow from the Urn. The
[322]
Pisces and Ferrum Phos
idea of the Fish drinking the Stream is an ancient one, and
may have given rise to the title Piscis aquosus, found with
Ovid and in the fourth Georgic, which has commonly been
referred to this constellation; Vergil mentioning it in his
directions as to the time for gathering the honey harvest."
It is unfortunate that no information relative to the esoteric
interpretation of the above is available. But those who have
awakened to the true meaning of Aquarius and the Son of
Man, will be able to analyze it correctly. The germ of life
is no longer thirsty, because he has drunk the Living Water.
As the bee is a symbol in ancient writings for Spirit, this
water becomes the nectar and ambrosia prepared especially
to nourish the indwelling gods, those having their habitation
on Mt. Olympus.
In early legend, this fish (Australis) is the parent of the
other two. Since it lies so close to Aquarius this may be true,
but it is just as logical that it may be the progeny of the
harmonized Northern and Western fishes. There is evidence
of the latter in the fact that it was adored in Egypt, and has
even been associated with the greater Oannes, the Fish God
or Savior. Our poet Longfellow called it the Golden Fish.
"The Mosaicists held the asterism to represent the Barrel
of Meal belonging to Sarephtha's widow; but Schickard pro
nounces it to be the Fish taken by St. Peter with a piece of
money in its mouth," says Richard Allen.
The above will be seen as analogous to the Biblical account
of the widow who took meal and mixed it with oil to make
her cake. This is symbolical of the Virgin (pure material),
mixing the refined oil with the meal or earth dust to make the
Bread of Life (the fish or Divine Germ), which
is,
at one and
the same time, both the Supper and the Lord Himself.
How curious that the Chinese termed
it
Tien Tsien,
Heavenly Cash, which
is
logical and not far-fetched, since the
perfected corpuscles or life germs are true coin
of
the realm,
real treasure, which must be constantly laid up
in
heaven
(cerebrum) .
Mr. Gaskell says of this sign: "A symbol of the twelfth
period of the cycle of life, which
is
the final period of evolu
tion on the buddhic plane. At the close of the cycle, the
Christ-soul (Jesus the 'Fish') becomes one with the Christ
(Higher Self the 'FISH') or the redeemed souls become one
with the Redeemer, the lower consciousness unites with the
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
"Possibly the 'Fish' symbol of early Christianity may be
explained by Pisces. On the catacomb lamps there are two
fish, one swallowing the other." A Jeremias, The Old Test.
Vol. I, p. 76.
"Pisces, the last of the signs, is represented by two fishes
bound by a cord. Love and deep compassion is the real
nature of Pisces." Vanstone.
"Jesus as the Fish is a symbol of the Higher Self as the
Savior of the human soul. The 'Great Sea' is the primeval
'water,' the symbol of Truth Reality which outpours from
the Absolute. The Higher Self abides and manifests in that
Ocean of Truth; hence the symbol of the Fish, as the spiritual
Life within the reality of Being."
Is it strange that the Scriptures refer to Jesus as the Lamb?
Why does it also say "Jesus is a fish in the midst of the
waters?" Is it not easy to understand that astrology alone
has the great key to the mystery?
Here it is necessary again to mention Aries, for while Pisces
relates to Jesus the Fish, the first sign of the Zodiac is con
cerned with the Christed-Jesus, the "Lamb of God which
taketh away the sins of the world." "A symbol of Christ
as the Divine sacrifice for the benefit of humanity. The young
ram (Aries) is a world-wide symbol of the sacrifice of the
Higher Self in entering upon the cycle of manifestation," says
Mr. Gaskell.
To explain mere fully, the Higher Self is cabined and con
fined. It is in this vehicle simply because the latter must become
perfect. It has not made an adequate machine for Spirit to use.
The meaning is not clear until explained physiologically and
chemically. The Spirit sacrifices its time, so to speak, waiting
for the body to be made perfect. A better understanding may
be gained by likening the Spirit in the body to the power which
runs a machine. If anything is wrong with the latter, the work
can not be done properly. Power is not to blame. The machine
must be attended to. It must be repaired.
Mr. Gaskell further says that "Jesus being a generic name,
with varieties such as Joshua and Jehoshua, it is requisite that
it should be allocated to a particular described type before it
may bear a symbolical meaning."
"Who shall descend into the deep? (that
is,
to bring Christ
up from the dead). Romans 10:7. All are dead until Christ
is
risen Christ
in
each and all."
[324]
Pisces and Ferrum Phos
In order to rise, a higher vibration that of expansion
is necessary. In order to breathe, oxygen must enter the body.
It has already been proved that Dr. Carey correctly allocated
Ferrum phos or iron with Pisces.
The beginning of form is in Aries. As the Sun passes
through the signs of the zodiac, a certain form of construction
work goes on in each, and eventually the twelve parts are com
pleted. After nine months' gestation, the child is born, and
if there is sufficient iron in the blood cells of the lungs it will
breathe, otherwise not.
It is said of iron that it is one of the most important, and
one of the most abundant, metals in nature. It has been known
from the earliest times. Tubal-cain was said to be an artificer
in metal. The iron found in the earth generally contains
nickel, and is said to be of meteoric origin. The author feels
certain that it was the presence of this type of iron in the
water, which led to the discovery of the new energy ray by
Dr. Milliken, and it should have been named "the Ariean-
Ironic Ray."
Where experiments concerning this ray take place in lake
water fed by glaciers, much better results will be obtained,
for the reason that meteoric iron, which the author prefers to
term etheric iron, for such it must be, is naturally precipitated
in snow. This is the explanation back of the statement that
"snow is the poor man's fertilizer."
It is logical and, with astrology and biochemistry as means
of proof, irrefutable, to believe that the air and especially
the higher stratas are filled with invisible specks or atoms of
Ferrum. Many people can even see them, but have thought
it some defect of vision.
The geometrical plan of man within the circle, places the
feet over the head. This is also true of the child in utero.
It must naturally follow, since all that is true of the macro
cosm is true of the microcosm, the latter being of small pro
portion only. Therefore the watery ether above is filled with
the smallest particles of iron, the same as the iron in the earth
and in man's body.
Without iron there would be no means whereby ether could
penetrate either into man's body or the body of the earth.
Let us analyze the word iron or Ferrum, and find the solution
of its secret. Its Latin term is Ferrum and it is derived from
the root of the verb fero, meaning to create, to form, to bear,
[325]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
therefore to give birth to. Is any further proof required that
it is the salt necessary for the existence of all things? //
actually bears life carries life.
The word fervor is derived from the same root, and means
boiling heat. Ferocious means fierce, rough, rude, uncon
trolled energy. Ferox is Latin for courage, good sense, high
Spirit. This latter definition verifies the explanation previous
ly given in this chapter relative to the fact that one is weak,
low-spirited, discouraged and disheartened when the iron con
tent of the blood is low; and strong, high-spirited, energetic
and alive when the blood is well supplied.
As energy must be tempered with gentleness, so must iron
become tempered, in order that it may be elastic, not hard
and unyielding. "Steel resembles iron very closely, being dis
tinguished from it only by the remarkable property it
possesses of being extremely hard and brittle when heated and
suddenly cooled. By cautious re-heating, the brittleness thus
acquired may be diminished, the steel becoming highly elastic;
this process is termed tempering." (Inorganic Chemistry, by
George F. Barker, M.D.)
It should not be difficult to understand why many of the
symptoms which will be given forthwith arise from deficiency
in iron. Nor does it require much thought to realize that a
good disposition is the result of a nature which has been tem
pered like steel. With the natural quota of iron in the blood,
and hence in the cells of the brain, one is not upset by any
thing. One does not become angry with another. The feel
ings and emotions are not aroused to fever heat and, by the
way, the word fever is derived from the same root. Is
it,
then,
curious that Dr. Schuessler should credit Ferrum or iron with
being
a
specific for fever? Its use produces marvelous results.
And why not, since
it
actually brings an increased supply of
Spirit or Cosmic Energy into the blood, and from thence into
all parts of the body to make
it
more alive.
How great the wisdom of the Great Architect
in
planning
that the earth (collection of various salts) should contain
a
very large proportion of this remarkable salt. Sir Thomas
Vaughan states,
in
his work, that
it
has
a
very great attraction
for Magnesium, that they work together. This
is
very easy
to understand. Magnesium,
it
will be remembered,
is
a
moving or magnetic salt, but there must be something within
or accompanying
it,
to enable
it
to move. As Ferrum means
[326]
Pisces and Ferrum Phos
to bear, and Magnesium means to move, it is obvious that they
must work together.
One lacking in strength, power, firmness and endurance is
very deficient in iron. "Complexes" can all be eliminated by
furnishing more Ferrum for the blood. Indeed the word
"complex" can be consigned to the scrap heap and never be
missed.
A smith is one who works in metals, especially in iron. His
particular occupation is to FORGE. Therefore his work is
required here between Pisces and Aries, where the circle of
life is forged together. Is it not evident, then, how great is
the importance of iron in the blood?
The Encyclopaedia Britannica states that the archaic inter
pretation of smith as one who smites, is far-fetched and not
applicable. How can this possibly be true, since the root
words of both are identical? A smith must smite in order
to assist in forging. Moreover, the word smite is most illum
inating, for it is the Smiting that Produces the Sparks. The
Sparks of life actually
fly
off the forge of Vulcan. They are
iron particles.
A smith
is
also one who shapes and fashions, an artificer.
In Greek, the word for smith means
a
GRAVER'S TOOL.
In its original or archaic sense (the source of its meaning)
it
refers to SPIRIT, which
is
the Cosmic Sculptor. How deftly
Spirit guides and turns the diamond-pointed tool by which
man's form
is
created.
The word fabric
is
derived from the same root as forge.
How interesting to learn that the Burin, which
is
the cutting
tool of the engraver,
is
made of tempered steel.
In the ancient but much perverted story, Jesus
is
said to
have been
a
CARPENTER. How confused all this has be
come, simply because people have never taken the trouble to
look up the derivation of words. They have all been applied
without instead of within.
The word carpenter
is
derived from the Latin verb carpere,
and means an artificer, also to speak. A curious but revealing
definition
is
obtained from the Sanskrit word for speech
SPHURJ which means
A
Spark
of
Fire.
It
will be re
called that the first chapter, Aries, describes speech as the
HISSING NAGA, which
is
Sanskrit for serpent. Mind
(functioning through the brain and nerves) directs the energy,
moving the muscles of the mouth, tongue and throat, and
a
hissing sound
is
emitted.
[327]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Therefore, back of the word carpenter or artificer, we find
the idea of creator or producer. There is no historical work
in existence about a MAN named Jesus, who was a carpenter.
The Bible is NOT a historical work.
But every corpuscle of the blood therefore every fish
is a potential Jesus, and
is,
therefore, A CARPENTER OR
ARTIFICER. And more especially may this be said of the
iron magnet within each one, SINCE SPIRIT, OR
ETHERIC OXYGEN, IS THE ENSOULING LIFE.
In Hebrew, Cain or Kain means
A
SMITH, while Tabul
or Tupal actually means IRON SLAG. As slag
is
"Scoria"
or REFUSE,
it
is
obvious that the refuse
in
the blood must
be consumed
in
a
combustion which the presence of iron alone
can create.
It
is
well known that phosphate of iron colors the blood
corpuscles red.
It
carries (bears) oxygen to all parts of the
body.
It
is
the vital force which SUSTAINS (strength) life.
Dr. Carey says of this salt
:
"Without
a
proper balance of iron
in
the blood, health
can not be sustained. When
a
deficiency
in
this cell-salt occurs,
the circulation
is
increased, for the blood tries to carry enough
oxygen to all the tissues of the body with the limited amount
of iron at hand, and
in
order to do so must move more rapid
ly; exactly as seven men must move faster
in
order to accom
plish as much work as could ten, moving at
a
slower pace.
"This increased motion being changed to heat, by the law
of the conservation of energy,
is
called FEVER. Search all
the medical writings, from Hippocrates to Koch, and you will
not find so good and true
a
definition of 'fever' as the one
offered by the biochemic pathology.
It
is
not the fever or
heat alone that causes the condition of 'not at ease'
in
the
patient, but the deficiencies
in
iron molecules, and
a
consequent
lack of oxygen. This molecular disturbance soon breaks up
the continuity of other cell-salts. A deficiency
in
potassium
chloride nearly always follows
a
deficiency
in
iron, unless the
missing links be quickly supplied."
One of the "bugbears" of life
is
the common cold, the
supposed germ or microbe of which scientists have sought
long and vainly. This they admit. They will never find
it,
for
it
does not exist. A cold
is
the housecleaning process by
which kindly Mother Nature rids the body of the mucus or
non-functional albumin (phlegm or pituitary) which has
[328]
Pisces and Ferrum Phos
accumulated because of the great Calcium deficiency. Recall
ing the chapter on Capricorn and Calcium phos, we note this
salt is required in greater quantities than any other. Sufficient
is never obtained, unless the diet is supplemented with the
Calcium tablets.
To the extent that iron is deficient will fever accompany the
"cold;" and the character and color of the mucus eliminated
via the nostrils and mouth depend on the consensus of de
ficiencies, according to biochemic pathology.
There are two forms of "colds" : stuffy and watery. Kali
mur and Calcium fluoride, Kali sulph, Silicea and Ferrum phos
are all very deficient, as well as Calcium phos, in the former
instance. One will feel stiff, lame, sometimes feverish, and
the mucus will be thick, tough, and difficult to raise. In the
latter case the sodium combinations are very deficient, which
causes the mucus to take on a very watery character, with
accompanying sneezing and running of water from the eyes.
A few of the many symptoms due to lack of Ferrum
are: rush of blood to the head causing delirium; congestion
of the brain from any cause ; injury to the brain ; wakefulness
due to the walls of the blood vessels in the head being unable
to disgorge the blood so that sleep may result (they lose their
tonicity and do not support normal circulation); cerebritis;
dizziness; emotional unbalance or insanity; headache with
rush of blood to the head; headache of a dull, throbbing,
bruising, beating character; head very sore to touch, pain on
pulling the hair; congestion (nose-bleeding relieves, and many
times is the means of lives being saved) ; all fevers; erysipelas;
inflamed gums (apply locally) ; hemorrhage; very red tongue
(like beefsteak) indicating inflammation; sore throat; vomit
ing of bright red blood; first stages of all inflammations;
incontinence of urine when from WEAKNESS of the sphinc
ter muscle; cystitis; burning, sore pain over kidneys; lumbago;
sore muscles, tenderness and soreness of the skin; weak, sore
ligaments; menstrual discharge bright red; palpitation of the
heart; anemia (one form); hyperemia accumulation of
blood in any of the blood vessels; stiff back.
Fractures and injuries of all kinds call for the free use of
this salt to induce more of the healing oxygen, and to enable
the waste and poison to be carried off. IN FACT THIS
SALT IS ALWAYS REQUIRED, NO MATTER WHAT
OTHER DEFICIENCIES ARE PRESENT. THE
[329]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
REASON FOR THIS IS OBVIOUS, SINCE IRON IS
THE MEANS OF THE HEALING SPIRIT ENTER
ING THE BLOOD.
It is marvelous what the application of iron to the surface
of the body, when injured, will accomplish. A cut or bruise
covered with a cream made from slightly moistened iron is
all that is required. It will heal beautifully and leave no scar.
Scars are Nature's method of reminding us that she did not
have sufficient material to renew the part and leave no marks.
"Most of the ailments under this salt," says Dr. Carey,
"are of a congestive nature, and are, therefore, relieved by
cold and aggravated by motion. The cold should be applied
directly to the congestion, or the relief will not be felt. If
the inflammation is deep-seated, heat should be applied to
relieve the engorgement of the deeper vessels."
Lack of iron, as we have previously stated, causes depres
sion, discouragement, and a feeling as if one were absolutely
crushed, since the air pressure ON the body is much greater
than that within. The blood is thus poisoned and will even
tually become very putrid, especially as potassium deficiency
always accompanies lack of iron.
A few words relative to Neptune's present position are
absolutely essential in closing this chapter and completing this
book.
Neptune, the Spiritual ruler of Pisces, entered Virgo in
October of 1928, and fourteen years are required to transit
the sign. After mentally digesting what has been given in the
chapter on Pisces, review the chapters on Virgo, Sagittarius,
and Gemini. Their nature and activities and the parts of the
body of man, and the universe with which they allocate, are
definitely concerned in the passage of this Spiritual planet
through Virgo. A MACROCOSMIC AND MICROCOS-
MIC HOUSECLEANING HAS BEGUN; THEREFORE,
AN UNCOVERING AND ELIMINATION OF FILTH,
UNTRUTH, AND WRONG METHODS, HAS BEEN
INITIATED BY THE POWERS THAT BE.
This is accentuated by the presence of Uranus in Aries,
which is vitally assisting in overthrowing all erroneous ideas
and opinions, as well as in many instances demolishing the
brain cells of non-thinkers. The youth of the world are utter
ly dissatisfied with the interpretations of religion and law
(Sagittarius), with educational methods (Gemini), with so
[330]
Pisces and Ferrum Phos
called medical science, health and hygiene, labor and employ
ment conditions, subtle caste differences between rich and poor
(Virgo), and last, but not by any means least, with MORALS
(Pisces), and the wholly inadequate and entirely perverted
explanations relative to them which have been given in the
past. THEY HAVE SCRAPPED THEM ALL, and are
making a new start. They are learning for themselves by
means of experience, as they go along. Because a person may
not go to church is no proof that he is not religious that he
is not seeking to find God, to learn what is right and DO IT.
If people are unable to obtain a logical explanation of
salvation, and how and why science and religion are twin-
brothers, they will lose interest in attending church. There is
plenty of evidence that the churches are already obliged to
exert every means, and employ many curious methods in order
to attract attendance.
No matter what has been concealed, and no matter how
long Neptune will now reveal it. All that can not bear the
light of day must be done away with; for the depth of the
earth, the matrix of the Virgin, is now being vibrated by the
Divine Ray. If it finds enough to work with, it will begin
to create the germ of the new man.
And as Neptune is the spiritual ruler of the depths of both
the ocean and the earth, we have now to prepare for the
SHAKING which will inevitably result. We have already had
proof that the ocean bed is changing, and new continents are
preparing to arise. Naturally some of those now standing
will be depressed and submerged. Neptune in Virgo opposite
its own sign Pisces, will therefore PULL the water of the
ocean upon the earth and tidal waves will result. Tides will
tend to be higher during the period of the transit of this
planet through Virgo, and especially so at those times when
the moon is also in this sign. At the time of the new moon
tides will be very high.
When the powerful planet Jupiter enters Virgo in the
summer of next year ( 1932), this will be intensified. There have
been many complaints of lack of water, but too much is as bad
as too little. Even the Indians living near the valley of the
Mississippi are moving to higher ground "the Great Spirit
has told them," they say, "that WATER IS COMING."
We need not smile at these people who have lived so close
to Nature, and are so far removed from all that is artificial.
[331]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Nature has revealed herself to them, and they observe all
her moods. They know that when the squirrels begin to lay
in their winter supply of food early, the season is approach
ing quickly. This is but one of the many keys they use.
Nature's God communes intimately with those who live close
to her, those who endeavor to find out what her laws are, and
to obey them.
"I say unto you, Love your enemies." Matt. 5 :44. As
love means understanding, it is obvious that the reason for
the presence of enemy cells or corpuscles within us (which in
the brain create thoughts of enmity) must be found out.
Therefore, astro-biochemistry is the key. Perfect obedience
to the law results in safety, as the Scriptures state, for "the
law of the wise is a fountain of life." Proverbs 13 :14. This
is the astrological reason why Sagittarius (law) is square to
Pisces (the fountain of life the blood).
"Unwearied thus for years on years the Fish propelled the
ship across the heaped up waters, till at length it bore the
vessel to the peak of Himavan (the personified Himalayas
the source of water) ; then softly smiling, thus the FISH
addressed the sage HASTE THEE TO BIND THY
SHIP TO THIS HIGH CRAG."
[332]
CHART/COSMIC
«
MICROCOSMIC
EMBRYOS.
THF.PATHM5UN«B07H
hemispheres
COSMIC EMBRYOS
The True Path of the Sun in the Universe.
The Path which Energy (The Sun) Follows in Man.
The Path which Energy Follows in Shaping the Form
of the Embryo in Utero.
LEGEND
THE COSMIC AND MICROCOSMIC EMBRYOS
^^^^HE Chart of the Cosmic and Microcosmic Embryos
4 J owes its inception to an idea that it would be interest-
^^^^ing to make twelve concentric circles corresponding to
the number of zodiacal signs. Then, to place each zodiacal
symbol on the circle corresponding in number to that of the
sign. Thus the glyph of Aries was placed in its usual position
in the East, on the equator.
The symbol for Taurus, the second sign, was placed on the
second circle and on the line forming the cusp between Aries
and Taurus. The Gemini symbol fell on the third circle (it
being the third sign) ; Cancer's glyph on the fourth, and so
on until Pisces, the twelfth and last sign, was reached. Its
symbol was placed on the circumference of the innermost circle
forming the matrix.
The idea of drawing a line connecting these symbols was
next conceived. When it was done, the result was astounding.
It was instantly obvious that this line constituted THE OUT
LINE OF AN EMBRYO, and furnished conclusive proof
that creative (cosmic) energy follows a path of curvature
forming at one and the same time an ellipse and the figure of
the embryo.
These findings seem to explain why the climate, as well as
the seasons, in the Northern Hemisphere differs from those in
the Southern.
While meditating on the fact that the human body is egg-
shaped or ellipsoidal, it was recalled that science had already
discovered that life-currents in the brain follow a path shaped
like the figure 8. (See Gray's Anatomy, p. 845, 1924 Edition.)
[333]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Madam Blavatsky adds further proof in her statement (on
page 433 of S. D. Vol. I), that "man represents the figure X
within the circle." The cerebrum is patterned after the
triangle, and when drawn correctly proportioned, the pyramid
can be erected within it. An imaginary line drawn between
the upper and lower brain, forms the base of the pyramid.
Sad to say, we have no really correct anatomical charts.
Neither do accurate geographical maps exist, more especially
those covering large areas.
After completing the plan of the embryos, it was found
possible to fill in the geometrical figure of an ellipse without
having to make a single correction, a truly unusual procedure.
Of still further interest is the fact that the formation of a
double pyramid whose point of contact fell on the seed point
within the innermost circle, also proved to be the pyramid
formed in the head of each embryo; and, most wonderful to
relate, the embryonic eye fell exactly on the middle point of
the pyramid, which corresponds with the location of the All-
Seeing Eye in the triangle as set forth in the lore of Masonry.
Thus geometry furnishes unusual information relative to
embryology.
Again, each inorganic salt allocates with a certain sign,
simply because it is capable of setting up a rate of motion
which moves in a certain direction, thus creating a particular
pattern. In other words, it covers a certain angular area.
The author earnestly hopes that this chart will furnish food
for much thought.
It is quite possible that it will eventually be discovered that
maps of the earth, as presented on globes, are not based on
facts. When the author was a very young student, the mere
sight of one of these globes caused a mental irritation and
feeling of dissatisfaction which the research work of recent
years has fully explained.
A partial description of a map which is much more reason-
satisfying to the author is here presented for the consideration
of the reader.
[334]
ASTRO-CHEMICO-PHYSIOLOGICAL
AND CHROMATIC CHART
LEGEND
The only point relative to this chart which is necessary to
explain, is its color allocation.
Earnest students of astrology have endeavored to allocate
color with the zodiacal signs, never realizing that it could be
quickly accomplished by merely bending the spectrum and
placing it over the zodiac.
The zero point, where Aries and Pisces join and link the
circle of life together, harmonizes with that part of the spec
trum where violet-cerise or "royal purple" merges into pure
cerise.
It will be noted that the primary signs in astrology are
the FIRE SIGNS: Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius. As the
primary colors, cerise (termed red), yellow, and blue, auto
matically place themselves OVER these signs when the spec
trum is placed on the zodiac, no further proof that my chart
is correct, is required.
However, additional proof is present on all sides. Aries
is the complement of Libra, whose allocating color is green.
Red and green are complementary colors.
As the zodiacal signs opposite each other are natural com
plements, it is equally true that their corresponding colors are
also complementary.
Color is the visible manifestation of invisible molecular
action, otherwise the electrical field of energy enveloping its
area.
The North Pole is really the pole or center of the universe
or earth, its navel, so to speak. It is to the earth, what the
solar plexus is to the physical body. Around
it,
on
a
more
or less concave surface, the continents and islands are grouped.
The South Pole will never be visited by anyone, as
it
lies
deep within the foundation of the earth. If this idea
is
diffi
cult to visualize, study
a
child's top for an example.
It
is
spun or twirled
by
means of its upper (north pole) end.
It
rests or spins on the opposite pole or end. But
it
must be
[335]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
constantly recalled that IT HAS A FOUNDATION
UNDER IT.
The surface of the earth changes during certain cycles, a
gradual submergence taking place in definite areas, while at
the same time new continents slowly rise from the ocean bed.
The earth may be pictured as an enormous egg in a tub of
water. The under portion is submerged. A partly inflated
rubber ball is a still better example to use. Pressure on the
center causes the sides to bulge up while pressure on one side
results in the other rising still higher. It is evident to the
student that something of the sort is taking place in the middle
of the North American continent.
It seems within the bounds of reason to assume that Richard
E. Byrd's explorations were concerned with the matrix or
pivotal point of the earth, and the region very far south.
The points farthest north, south, east and west of the Pole
naturally form the four points of the compass. These con
nected by an imaginary line form the circumference or ice-
barrier which no human being has ever seen.
It does not seem unreasonable to assume that this circum
ference is met by the arch of the sky (since energy never fails
to take a circular course), for it constitutes a very good reason
for the formation of the immeasurable and insurmountable
ice barrier which MAY one day be discovered to be
LIQUEFIED AIR.
It is a scientific fact that the icy waters of the so-called
"polar seas" contain an immense quantity of Kali mur or
chloride of potassium. As this salt is chemically capable of
roducing great cold, we have further evidence of the possi-
ility that the supposed ice-barrier is really liquefied air. On
re-reading the chapter on Gemini, which is an AIR sign, it
will not be difficult to understand the points above given, and
especially when it is recalled that Kali mur is an AIR salt.
Kali or potassium (the carrier of fire), and chlorine (a heavy
gaseous element), combine to precipitate and thus materialize
what was heretofore invisible.
Order will eventually appear out of the chaos of perversion.
[336]
INDEX
Abdominal Brain, 164.
Abdominal Ring, 196.
Abdominal Troubles, 184.
Abnormal Appetite, 282.
Abode of the Essence of Life, 109.
Abscesses, 40, 82, 237, 258.
Absolute Purity, 224.
Aching Eyeballs, 282.
Acid, 34, 40, 206, 208, 210, 211. 280.
Acne, 101, 258.
Acute Indigestion, 158.
Adam Man, 63, 64, 74, 75, 79, 82, 116,
239.
Addison, 203.
Adi Nerve, 78.
Adolescence, 148.
Adonis, 110.
Adrastea, 238, 240.
Adrenal Glands, 187, 193.
Adult, 162.
Adulteration, 161, 162, 318.
Adultery, 161.
Adversary, 128, 320.
Aesculapius, 220, 221, 246, 250, 263,
269.
Affection, 189.
Age of Truth, iv, VI.
Ague, 81.
Air Age, 172.
Air-minded, 297.
Air Pressure, 313.
Akasha, 87, 113.
Alabaster, 236.
Albumin, 40, 70, 94, 279, 328.
Albuminoids, 30, 33, 95, 281.
Albumoses, 68.
Alchemical Vase, 31.
Alchemical Operation, 36.
Alcohol. 296.
Alexander, 55.
Al-gali (potassium), 36.
Alignment of Ovaries, 198.
Alkahest, 83.
Alkaline Salt, 34, 67.
Allen, Richard, 203, 217, 219, 221, 222,
247, 254, 277, 291, 292, 320, 321,
323.
All-Seeing Eye, 54, 76, 127, 268.
Almeisan, 94.
Altar, 204.
Al Tau'aman, 85.
Amalgam, 88, 96.
Amalthea, 261, 273, 277.
Amber, 183.
Ambrosia, 87, 99, 138, 144.
Amen-Apis, 73.
Amen-Menthu, 54.
American Medical Coprs, 97.
Amritam, 62, US.
Amusements, 132.
Anatomy, 53, 75, 199, 288.
Ancient Alchemist, 140.
Ancient of Days, 67, 80, 260, 265, 266.
Androgynous, 287.
Andromeda, 319.
Anemia, 235, 280, 307, 320, 329.
Angel, 25, 26, 42.
Angel of Death, 213, 219.
Angel of the Sphinx, 213.
23]
Angina Pectoris, 156.
Angles of Planets, 25, 26, 30, 42. 257.
Angora Goats, 277.
Anhydrite, 233.
Animal Brain, 74.
Animal Cells, 57.
Animal Corpuscles, 112, 223, 263, 285.
Animal Passions, 74, 79.
Animal Seed, 263, 285.
Ankles, 286.
Anointing Oil, 275.
Ansated Cross, 198.
264 Antagonism, 74.
Antahkarana, 72.
Antares, 220, 221, 247.
Anus, 211, 272.
Aphrodite, 178, 192.
Apocalypse, 192.
Apollo, 73, 143, 220, 255, 275.
Appetite Poor, 101.
Applications, 258.
Aqua, 284.
Aquarian Age, xvi, 29, 172, 173, 320.
Aquarian Nation, 243.
Aquarius, the Son of Man, v, xvi, 32, 41,
47, 48, 133, 140, 178, 188, 262, 271, 284,
288, 290, 296, 310.
Arabia, 111.
Arachnoid (spider) Membrane, 106, 119,
120, 124, 136.
Arcanum, 185.
Arch, 243.
Arch-nend, 135.
. Archetypal Man, 180.
Architect of the Universe, VII, 65, 133,
152, 209, 289, 326.
Arcturidae, 113, 114.
Argentum Vivum, 86, 87, 96.
Aries, viii, 25, 26, 49, 72, 105. 115, 121, 131,
139, 220, 256, 259, 261, 297, 318.
Aristaeus, 291.
Ark, 113, 116, 314.
Arms and Hands, 91.
Arnold, Matthew, 212.
Arrogance, 240.
Arrow, 201, 240, 254, 255, 259.
Art, 67.
[337]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Arterial Blood, 91, 309, 310, 318.
Artificer. 115, 327, 328.
Asher, 177.
Association Centers, 240.
Asthma, 82, 277, 307.
Astral Fluid, 286.
Astro-biochemistry, 193.
Astro-Chemical Plan, 31, 169, 303, 306, 332.
Astrological Charts, 167.
Astrology, viii, 29, 63, 289, 291, 297, 32S.
Athena, 74, 268.
Athens, 74, 315.
Atlantis, 300, 320.
Atlas, 320.
Atma, 117. 246.
Atonement, iv, 91, 311.
Atrophos, 93.
Attic, 74, 87.
Avatar, 287.
Aviation, 296.
Aztec, 278.
Azores, 300.
Baal Gad. 54.
Babylon, 192.
Backbone, 98.
Bacon, Lord, 142.
Bad Taste in Mouth, 282.
Bailey, Mr., 214.
Balance, 34, 158, 187, 190, 194. 196, 204.
220, 289, 300.
Balancing Salt, 206.
Ballast, 148.
Banking System, 200.
Baptism of Fire, 83.
Barker, George F., 125.
Barnabas, 242.
Barometer, 88, 96, 274.
Barren Earth, 164.
Barrenness, 235.
Bartholin Gland, 223, 246.
Base of Brain (pain), 82.
Basement Brain, 74.
Basic Interpretation of Signs, 104.
Bear, (Little) 109, 111, 139.
Bearer of Water, 42.
Beast of Prey, 99, 132, 133.
Bees, 63. 98, 138, 218.
Beetle (Egyptian), 109.
Beginnings, 260.
Bellerophon, 251, 252.
Bel-Moloch, 243.
Belshazzar, 204.
Ben, 314.
Benjamin, 314.
Bennett. F. H., 305, 304.
Berith Gods, 188.
Beth-Hebrew Letter B, 34, 37, 39, 63, 182.
Bethlehem, 160, 175, 182, 314.
Bethulah, (Pure Water), 160.
Beyond the Veil. 311.
Bible is Man, 169, 229.
Bier, 111.
Bile, 28, 40, 82, 101, 208.
Biochemic System of Medicine, IV, xiii, xii,
xiv, 21, 23, 294, 313, 318, 328.
"Bird-of-the-Great-Seed," 176.
Birth of Corpuscles, 107.
Birth-Salt, 42.
Bitter Taste in Mouth, 82.
Bitumen, 287, 288.
Bladder, 187, 193, 208, 210, 234, 237, 307.
Blavatsky. Madam. 90, 105, 122, 154, 178,
179, 193, 198, 227, 232, 278, 285, 286,
309, 316, 334.
Blisters, 307.
Blood Absorbs Inorganic Salts, 318.
Blood Alkaline, 279.
Blood of Christ, 318.
Blood Deficiencies, 306. 307.
Blood of the Grape, 310.
Blood-Poison, 184.
Blood Serum, 286, 288, 290, 311.
Boat, 113.
Boaz, 116.
Body Building, 70, 86.
Boericke, Dr., xiii.
Boils, 37, 101, 258.
Bones, 37, 39, 124, 183, 266, 278, 282.
Book of Creation, 107.
Born of Water & Spirit, 286, 316.
Boundary, 308.
Bowels, 33, 137, 164, 166, 185, 237.
Brahman, 255.
Brain Esse, 59, 67, 106, 200, 201, 329.
Brain-pan, 265, 314.
Brain (Softening), 71, 282.
Brain Vitalizers, 26.
Bramarandhra, 63, 98, 149.
Bread from Heaven, 121.
Bread of Life, 160, 175, 202, 262, 314, 323.
Breast, 103, 113, 114, 115, 237, 258, 285.
Breath of Life, 308, 317.
Breath is Spirit, 312.
Brewer, E. C, 251, 275, 290.
Brewpot, 31.
Bridge, 259.
Bright's Disease, 281.
Bring Forth (Bear), 113.
Bringer of Good Tidings, 278.
British Medical Corps, 97.
Bronchial Tubes, 91, 184, 259.
Brood Hen, 113.
Brown, Robert, 108, 248, 308.
Bryant, Dr., 188.
Buddhic Plane, 83.
Bulb, 85.
Bull. 53, 64, 73, 75, 82, 83, 140, 144, 175,
230.
Bull-headed God, 74.
Bunyan, 268.
Burin, 327.
Burning Sensation, 234, 237, 306.
Business Interests, 39.
Butler, Hirano, XV.
Byrd, Richard E., 335.
c
Casein, 94.
Cadaver, 91, 236.
Caduceus, 60, 90, 91, 97, 98, 177.
[338]
Index
Calamity, 225.
Calcium fluoride Lime fluoride, 30, 68, 103,
257.
Calcium phos Lime phosphate, 39, 79, 257,
260, 266, 278, 329.
Calcium aulph Lime sulphate, 36, 167, 213,
306.
Calvary, 54.
Calx, 283.
Campbell, R. J., 231.
Cum, 22, 23, 91, 92.
Canal, 94.
Cancer, 29, 52, 103, 110, 262, 271, 278, 285.
Cancer Cella, 65, 184.
Cancer (Disease), 101, 211, 317.
Candle of the Lord, 54, 289.
Candlemas Day, 291.
Canker, 211.
Capella, 267.
Capital, 203.
Capricious, 267.
Capricorn, 38, 39, 52, 99, 103, 104, 110, 112,
121, 127, 149, 170, 216, 241, 251, 260, 329.
Captive Tribes, 82.
Caput Gallinaginis, 224, 227.
Carbohydrates, 68.
Carbon Monoxide Poisoning, 66.
Carbuncles, 37, 259.
Cardinal Cross, 52, 110.
Carey, Dr., Part I, 306, 309, 317, 325, 328,
330.
Caries of Bone, 40, 258.
Carnally Minded, 75, 196, 315.
Car of Osiris, 113.
Carpenter, 327, 328.
Carrier of Fire, 66.
Carrots, 208.
Casket which holds the Light, 67.
Casserole, 113.
Cassieopia, 322.
Casts of Corpuscles, 167, 235.
Castor and Pollux, 89, 90, 100, 101, 225.
Castrate, 255.
Catacomb Lamps, 324.
Catalyst, 295, 303.
Cataract on Eyes, 76, 124, 127, 258.
Catarrh, 29, 40, 95, 101, 184, 237, 258.
Catholic Church, 242.
Catholic Receptacle of Spirits, 66.
Cauda Equina, 122, 252.
Causal Body, 117.
Cave, 78.
Celestial Fire, 103, 121, 246.
Celestial Influences, 26.
Celestial Ocean, 285.
Celestial Spheres, 62.
Celiac Ganglia, 167.
Cell Salts, 21, 23, 24, 69.
Cell Starvation, xvi, 280.
Cellular Disturbances, 282.
Cement, 40, 124, 236.
Centaur, 238, 248, 249, 265.
Cepheus, 322.
Cereal, 63.
Cerebellum, 24, 27, 30, 73, 74, 76, 77, 82,
84, 99.
Cerebral Cells, 93, 100, 162.
Cerebral Honey, 83.
Cerebral Milk, 116.
Cerebritis, 329.
Cerebro spinal Nerves, viii, 54, 56, 61, 86,
87, 94, 206, 221.
Cerebrum, viii, 30, 51, 57, 58, 60, 63, 65,
67. 74, 75, 76, 77, 78.
Ceres, 57, 63, 68, 74, 174, 175, 176.
Cerise or Magenta, 205.
Cetus, 315.
Chakras, xvii, 165.
Chaldean Philosophy, 114.
Chapman, Dr., xiL
Character Building, 86, 98, 274.
Charts of Criminals, 289.
Chastity, 89.
Chemical Affinity. 22.
Chemical Deficiencies, 62.
Chemical Mysteries, xv.
Chemical Perfection, 256.
Chemical Plan, xiii.
Chemicalization, 33.
Chemist (Cosmic), 133, 279.
Chemistry of the Cosmos, xiv.
Chemistry of Life, xvii, 26, 231, 271.
Chickenpox, 99.
Chief Building Material, 282.
Child of the Waters, 178.
Children, 132.
Children's Diseases, 99, 101, 184.
Chills and Fever, 28 ,81.
Chilly Sensation, 156.
Chimaera, 251.
Chip on the Shoulder, 210.
Chloride of Potassium, 84.
Choking (spasmodic), 156.
Christ, xv. 34, 35, 261, 275, 291, 318.
Christ Consciousness, 74, 91, 173. 196, 275.
Christ (oil), 122, 169, 180, 181, 182.
Christed Jesus, 324.
Chronos, 238.
Chrysolite, 145, 148, 151.
"Church of God," 39, 243.
Chyle, 104, 121.
Circle, 38. 194, 308.
Circle of Beasts, 31, 38.
Circle of Life, 308.
Circulation, 101, 221.
Claustrum, 216.
Clotho, 93.
Clytemnestra, 89.
Cobwebs, 92, 120.
Coccyx, 98, 215, 221, 240, 264, 286.
Coffin, 111.
Cohesion, 266.
Coin, 201, 202, 271.
Cold Feeling in Head, 282.
Cold Germ, 279.
Coldness and Numbness, 282.
Colds, 184, 237, 258, 307, 328, 329.
College of Biochemistry, xii.
Color, 335.
Color of Virgo, 176.
Combustion, 181, 184.
Commerce and Exchange, 86.
[339]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Salt, 41.
Commonwealth, 39.
Complexion, 235.
Compound Interest, 60.
Conception, 106, 310.
Conception Sign, 128.
Condensing Agent, 208.
Confine, 308.
Conjunctivitis, 82.
Connective Tissue, 118, 257.
Conscience, 256.
Constipation, 101, 117.
Consumption, (Tuberculosis), 40.
Continence, 161, 162.
Contraceptives, 118.
Contraction, 106.
Convulsions, 157, 210.
Convulsions in Teething Children, 282.
Copious Night Sweats, 259.
Copper, 78.
Corn, 123, 273.
Cornea, 127.
Cornucopia, 273.
Corpse-Whale, 274.
Corpuscles, 59, 104, 112, 118, 212, 248, 288,
295. 323.
Corpuscles are Seeds, 75, 108, 111, 289.
Corrupt, 270.
Corruption, 69.
Cos, 250, 252.
Cosmic Embryos, 223, 263, 269, 333.
Cosmic Law, 24, 29.
Cosmic Mind, xiv.
Cosmic Mother, 82, 107, 286.
Cosmic Sculptor, 327.
Cosmic Records, 273.
Cough, 101, 156, 184, 237.
Cowardice, vii.
Cow of Plenty, 115.
Cowper's Glands, 223, 246.
Crab, 29, 103, 105, 106, 108, 111, 117,
119, 121, 144, 217.
Cracked, (Furrowed) Tongue, 124.
Cramps, 155, 156, 157.
Cranium, 251.
Craving for Salt, 307.
Crawling Sensation, 282.
Creation, 261.
Creative Cross, 110.
Creative Fire, 264.
Creative Germ. 110, 111, 115.
Creator, 57, 69.
Creator of Prosperity, 223.
Cremation, 236.
Creutzer, Prof., 142.
Critical State, 253, 276.
Crocodile or Dragon, 203.
Cross, 52, 53, 76, 79, 85.
Croup, 95.
Crown, 247.
Crucifixion, 35, 99, 140.
Crustacean, 105, 113, 124.
Crusty Disposition, 124.
Crying (spasmodic), 156.
Cube, 120.
Cuboidal Mesothelium, 120, 124.
Cuneiform, 201, 245.
Cup-bearer, 284, 293.
Cupid, 190, 212, 315, 321.
Cup of Life, 58, 284.
Cybele, 176.
Cyclic Law, 179.
Cystic Tumors, 258.
Cystitis, 101, 184, 329.
Daily Bread, 59, 82.
Dandruff, 33, 184, 307.
Date palm Seed, 113.
Daughters of Earth (Men), 105.
David, 140.
Day of Atonement, 277,
Day of Uranus, 288.
Deafness, 184.
Death, xvi, 87, 112, 163, 311.
Death of Corpuscles, 194.
Debility, 83.
Decomposition, 311.
Defectives, 118.
Deficiency, vii, 311.
Deficiency in Bile, 101.
Degeneration, 219, 309, 316.
Delirium, 307, 329.
Delirium Tremens, 303.
Delitzsch, 111.
Deluge, 292.
Demiurge, 116.
Demogorgon, 93.
Denatured Foods, 305.
Depression, 312, 330.
Derbyshire Spar, 125.
Descent of the Artificer, 115.
Desire, 57, 137, 163, 211, 231.
Desire for Solitude, 282.
Despondency, 258, 307, 312.
Deucalion, 295.
Devil, 151.
Devitalizing Fluids, 296.
Dew, 58, 59, 80, 85, 156, 251, 259, 294,
304, 317.
Diabetes, 82, 307.
Diamond, 145.
Diana, 273.
Diarrhoea, 211.
Diet, 70, 80, 163.
Dieticians, 68.
Digestive Disturbances, 124, 137.
Dionysius, 255.
Dioscuri, 89, 90.
Diphtheria, 29, 95, 100, 210.
Dipper (Big), 113.
Dipper, (Little), 109.
Discharge, 258, 282.
Disease, 22, 127, 311.
Disease of Memory, 141.
Disgust with Life, 258.
Disposition Crusty, 124.
Distaff, 93.
Divine Babe, 263.
Divine Chemist, 87, 222.
Divine Child, 179, 266, 317.
Divine Fire, 221, 263, 264, 286.
[340]
Index
Divine Man, 85, 293.
Divine Messenger, 97.
Divine Mind. 179.
Divine Mother, 164, 179.
Divine Out going, 83.
Dizziness, 82, 329.
Dodo's, Dr., 280.
Dolphin, 274, 275, 322.
Dormant Brain Cells, 24, 25, 47, 241.
Dory, John, 290.
Draconis, (a), 109.
Dragon's Tail, 271.
Dread of Hot Drinks, 184.
Dreams (Disturbed), 82.
Drinking, 300.
Dropsy, 82, 208, 307.
Dropsy of Brain, 282.
Drowsiness, 82, 303.
Drugs, 173, 300.
Druids, 217.
Dugga-Kaga-gilgatil, 109.
Dura Mater, 106.
Dust of the Earth, 231.
Dyspepsia, 211.
E
E (He or H). 172. . .
Eagle. 213, 214, 226, 259.
Earache Specific, 184.
Ears, 73, 82, 101, 184, 211, 237, 258.
Earth Sign, 27.
Easter, 51, 189.
Eclectic College of Chiropractic, xiii.
Eczema, 101, 211, 306.
Eden, 57, 76.
Educational Methods, 330.
Effect of Acid on Magnesium, 152.
Eggs (Cosmic and physiological), 112, 126.
Egg Shells, 235.
Egypt, 76. 185, 273.
Eight (Balance number), 198.
Eighth Period or Cycle, 230.
Eitel. Mr., 293.
El (God), 85.
Elastic Fiber, 30, 118.
Elasticity, 106.
Electra, 294.
Electrical Energy, 65, 84, 99.
Electrical Wires, 70.
Electric Seed-Spirits, 108, 285.
Electron, 115.
Electrutn, 227.
Eleusinian Mysteries, 175.
Elevated, 55.
Eleventh Period or Cycle of life, 300.
Elixir of Life, xv, 27, 30, 31, 70, 185.
Ellipsoid, 333.
Elohim, 116.
Embolus, 29, 99, 101.
Embryology, 56.
Embryonic, Cerebral Cells, 247.
Emissions, 211.
Emotion, 61. 79, 82, 131, 157, 329.
Empedocles, 205.
Enamel of Teeth, 118, '24, 126.
Encratites, 290.
End of Life, 309.
End of the World. 300.
Endurance. 327.
Enemies, 308, 320, 312.
Energy, (Mars), 1?«.
English Walnut, 245.
Enlarged Glands, 282.
Enoch, 171.
Entered Apprentice, 267.
Ephesus, 272, 273, 276.
Epidemics, 280.
Epilepsy, 101, 157.
Epsom Salts, 153.
Equilibrium, 70, 148, 187.
Eros, 108, 190, 228.
Erotes, 57, 77, 121, 285.
Erroneous Ideas, 300.
Eruptions, 40, 271.
Erysipelas, 101, 329.
Esoteric Chemistry, 22, 84.
Esse, xv, 70, 84, 87, 105, 114, 122, 181,
193, 241, 259, 263, 294, 315.
Essence of Life, 58, 60, 232.
Eternal Feminine, 82.
Ether, 181, 325.
Etymology of Words, 49.
Eunuch, 291.
Euphrates, 56, 88, 96, 98, 315, 321.
Eustachian Tubes, 258.
Eve. 163, 199, 239.
Evergreen, 78.
Evil One, 192.
Evolution, 205.
Ewe, 290.
Ewe-neck, 290.
Exaltation of the Cross, 174.
Excess Mucus, 279.
Excess Water, 27, 82.
Excessive Secretion of Bile, 82.
Expansion, 106, 297.
Expansion of Consciousness, 297.
Experience, 331.
Expiation, 246.
Explanation of Trouble, vii.
Eyelids Twitch, 156.
Eyes, 59, 76, 101, 124, 156, 211, 234, 237.
258, 282, 307, 329.
Ezekiel, 110.
F
Face, 73, 101, 211.
Faint Feeling in Stomach, 282.
Fainting, 71.
Fall Equinox, 50, 52, 187.
Fall and Rise of Man, 61, 90, 98.
Fallen Angels, 105.
False Diphtheria, 210.
Fancies, 71.
Father, viii, 57.
Fault-finding, 252.
Fear vii, 118, 119, 124, 158, 282.
Fear of Insanity, 211.
Feathered Serpent, 265.
Fecundity, 104, 273.
Feet, 43, 237, 259, 308, 309.
Feet and Legs Swell, 101.
Feeling and Sensation, 165.
Feeling of Suffocation, 183.
[: 1]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Fermentation, 210.
Ferocity, 151, 326.
Ferrum phos. Iron, 43, 64, 65, 81, 88, 95,
100, 155, 156, 250, 258, 306, 308, 312.
317.
Fetid Breath, 282.
Fever, 43, 326, 328, 329.
Fibers, 84, 85, 90, 91, 94.
Fibrin, 28, 69, 95, 99.
Fifth Period or Cycle of Life, 150.
FilaraenU, 84, 85, 91, 94, 95.
Fine ArU, 251.
Fir, 78.
Fire of Life, 267.
Fire Signs, 64, 202.
Fire Symbol, 201.
Fire Water, 295.
First Cycle (Aries), 72.
First Essence, 67.
Fish, xiv, 32, 42, 53, 126, 166, 168, 274, 287,
288, 290, 291 295, 302, 308, 309, 316, 317,
320, 323, 324.
Fishermen, 166.
"Fish-of-the-Canal," 291.
Fissieres (cracks) on Skin, 124.
Fistulous Abscess, 82, 235, 258, 259.
Flabby Tissues, 119.
Flammarion, 111.
Flint, 250, 257.
Flood, 291.
Floury Scales on Skin, 101.
Fluidic (water), Signs, 104.
Fluorescence, 125.
Fluoride of Lime, 30.
Fluor-spar, 118.
Flux, 119, 125, 126.
Flying Eagle, 141.
Flying Serpent, 221.
Food, 70, 262.
Food Chemistry, 280.
Footstool of Jove, 247.
Footwear, 298.
Forebodings, 71.
Forge, 327.
Forgetfulness, 106, 119, 124, 281.
Formation of Seed, 103.
Fortunate One, 278.
Fortune Telling, 53.
Foundation, 266, 312.
Fountain Head of Life, 57, 215, 300.
Fountain of Thought, 252.
Four Beasts, 140.
Four Gates of Heaven, 262, 265.
Fourth Period or Cycle of Life (Cancer),
117.
Fractures, 329.
Freemasonry, 85, 97, 115. 171, 172, 195,
267, 277.
Free Woman, 175.
Friends, 301.
Frigidus, 291.
Frontier, 313.
Fruits of Labor, 266.
Full Moon of Libra, 189.
Funeral Urn, 265.
Fungoid Inflammation of Joints, 184.
Gad, 26, 49, 55, 105, 261.
Gaia, 97.
Galilee, 22, 92.
Gall-Bladder, 73.
Ganges, 294.
Ganymede, 293, 294, 295.
Garden of Eden, 63, 76, 78, 100, 239, 294.
Gaskell, G. A., 116, 150, 179, 205, 230, 246,
254, 255, 278, 301, 323, 324.
Gastric Abrasions, 211.
Gastric Juice, 40.
Gastritis, 101, 184.
Gate of Heaven, 101, 110, 113, 262, 278.
Gate of Hell, 213, 219.
Gate of Men, 114.
Gauge, 309.
Gayley, G. M., 141.
Gemini, 28, 53, 84, 117, 118, 173, 178, 188,
288, 330. 336.
Gemmation, 85.
Generation, 163, 219, 232, 309, 318.
Genesis, 57.
Geometrical Plan of Sun's Path, 269.
Germs, 37, 76.
Giddiness, 211.
Glands, 69, 76, 91, 99, 223, 246.
Glandular Fluids, vi, 59, 114, 135.
Glasses, 257.
Globulins, 68.
Glutenous, 68.
Gluttony, 77, 210. 262, 296, 300.
Glycogen, 68.
Glyph of Capricorn, 278.
Gnawing Sensation, 210.
Goat. 38, 39, 40, 217, 251, 260, 261, 263,
268, 276.
Goat-fish, 277.
God, xv, 127.
Goddess Kali, 69.
God-man, viii, xvti, 35, 44.
God of War, 220.
God-power, vi.
Goitre, 282.
Gold, 31, 76, 77, 78, 79, 87, 96, 149, 219,
222.
Golden Age, 277.
Golden Apples, 239.
Golden Calf, 73, 74, 244.
Golden Fleece of Jason, 54.
Golden Seed, 248.
Golden Stone, 148.
Gold Fish, 290.
Golgotha, 78, 85.
Gonorrhea, 101, 237, 258, 307.
Gospel of Buddha, 71.
Gout, 82.
Grand Man, 25, 31, 62, 199.
Granulated Eyelids, 101.
Graver's Tool, 327.
Graveyard, 59.
Gray Matter, 26, 215.
Gray's Anatomy, 68, 106, 119, 124, 136,
165, 197, 209, 241, 245.
Great Arcanum, 186.
Great Bear, 112.
[: r2]
Index
Great Chemist, vii, 65, 96, 209.
Great Coffin, 111.
Great Dragon, 166.
Great Fire, 221.
"Great Goddess-Star", 247.
Great Physician, 101.
Great Work, xv, 39, 52. 87, 153, 194,
210, 263, 266, 309, 318.
Greater Holy Assembly, 60.
Greater Sheepfold, 113.
Greek Mythology, vii.
Green Lion, 153.
Grinding Teeth, 210.
Groin Pains, 124.
Growths (hard), 124.
Guardian and Keeper, 113.
Guglielmini, Domenico, 256.
Guillaume, 275.
Gums, 124, 237, 258, 282, 329.
Gypsum, 36, 233.
H
H, (letter). He or E, 172, 173.
Hair, 33, 37, 38, 183, 258, 282, 329.
Halicali, 66, 67.
Hallowe'en, 216, 217, 222.
Hands Tremble Involuntarily, 157.
Hardening of Tongue, 258.
Harmony, 61.
Hawking of White Mucus, 101.
Hay Fever, 307.
Head, 211, 258, 282.
Headache, 71, 82, 101, 211, 307, 329.
Head Light, 101, 172, 298.
Healing, 61, 62, 175, 318.
Health, 72, 155.
Healthy Corpuscles, 123.
Hearing Dull, 258.
Heart Symptoms, 31, 130, 156, 211,
307, 329.
Heaven, 56, 292.
Heavenly Cash, 323.
Heavenly Dew, 80.
Heavenly Fluid, 295.
Heavenly Marriage, 153, 200.
Heavenly Treasure, 200.
Heel, 309.
Helen, 89.
Helios, 73, 143.
Hell, 262, 263.
Hemorrhage, 329.
Hemorrhoids, 124.
Hensel, Julius, 306.
Heraldry, 274.
Hercules, xv, 73.
Hermes, 86.
Hesperia, 73.
Hiccough, 156.
Hidden Manna, 39.
Hidden Sun, 134.
High Born, 108.
"High One of the Enclosure of Life,"
High-tension Currents, 158.
Higher Mind, 239, 240, 245, 247, 254,
259, 285, 294, 295.
Himavan, 332.
Hindu Zodiac, 278.
Hippocampus, 249.
Hippocrates, 250, 328.
Hips and Thighs, 243, 249, 259.
Hissing Naga, 327.
Hives, 211.
Hoarseness, 282.
198, Holy Child, 175.
Holy Ghost, 86, 178, 310.
Holy Month, 174.
Holy of Holies, 172, 243, 301.
Holy Oil, xv.
Holy Sacrament, 263.
Homeopathic Potency, 41.
Homer, 203, 246, 300.
Honey of Life, 63, 149, 323.
Honor, 269, 271.
Hopes and Wishes, 301.
Horace, 183.
Horse, 249, 252, 253, 256, 259. 294.
Horus, 176.
Hospitals, 321.
Hot Flashes, 184, 211.
Housecleaning, 330.
House of Death, 150, 213.
House of God, 64, 105.
House of Health, 160, 241, 280.
House of Jehovah, 110.
House of Mercury, 177.
House of the Virgin, 197.
Human Body, 21.
Human Germ, 121.
Human Laboratory, 27.
Human Sea, 288.
Humanity Unbalanced, 210.
Humid Air, 80.
Hungry Feeling After Eating, 71.
Hyaloplasm, 68.
282, Hydra, 166.
Hydro-carbons, 276.
Hydrochloric Acid, 209, 279.
Hydrogen, 65.
Hyperaemia, 329.
Hysteria, 71.
I
I (I. Y and J), 182.
Ibex, 278.
Icarius, 176.
Ice Barrier, 336.
Ichor of the Gods, 27.
Ichthus, 42.
Ida, 238, 240.
Illumination, 53, 241.
Illuminator of the City, 248.
Illusions of the Senses, 156.
Immortal Egg, 121.
Immortality, 112.
Imperfect Brain Cells, vii.
Imperishable Sacred Lamp. 54.
Impingements of Nerves, 279.
Impotency, 286.
109. Incarnate Self, 151.
Incompetency, 117.
255, Incontinent, 161.
Incorruption, 180.
Increase in Weight, 80.
India, 200.
[343]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Indrawing of Energy, 163, 180.
Infinite Alchemist, 27.
Inflammation, 184, 306.
Inflammatory Rheumatism, 100.
Inflated Values, 271.
Influenza, 307.
Inharmonious Cells, 321.
Inheriting the Earth, 87.
Initiate, 171, 266.
Injuries, 259, 329.
Inner Eye, 273.
Inner Mystery, xv.
Inner Sun, 131.
Inorganic Substances, 21, 256.
Inorganic System, 68.
Inosite, 68.
Insanity, vii, 71, 117, 329.
Insects and Pests, 304.
Insomnia, 303.
Inspiration, 57, 317.
Insulator, 258.
Interest, 201.
Interpretation of Oil, 182.
Intestinal Parasites, 210.
Intestinal Tract, 42, 167, 183, 258, 307.
Intuition, 100, 241, 247, 259.
Invisible Fire, 65.
Involution. 159, 180, 205.
Iodine, 279.
Iron, 100. 155, 184, 222, 317.
Irregularity of Periods, 211.
Irritants, 82, 209, 279.
Isis, 113. 115, 135, 176, 178, 198, 223. 224,
300.
Israel, 83.
Itching, 210, 306.
J
Jacob, 82. 181, 247.
Janus, 170, 260, 261, 264, 265, 268, 284.
Jaw, (lower), 73.
Jelly-like Mucus, 211.
Jerusalem, 110, 228, 246.
Jesus, 32, 35. 38, 42, 166, 168, 172, 178,
262, 266, 272. 275, 295, 302, 308, 309,
316, 321, 322, 323, 324, 328.
John the Baptist, 291.
Joints, 40, 85, 91, 211, 307.
Jonah, 316.
Jordan, 96, 98. 122, 178, 243. 291, 294.
Joseph, 100, 188, 189, 248.
Joshua. 166, 324.
Judas Thaddaeus, 291.
Jugum (yoke), 199, 222.
Juno, 85, 239.
Jupiter, 38, 43, 85, 86, 146, 150, 179, 238,
239, 241, 253, 261, 263, 271, 277, 319,
331.
Justice, vii,
K
Kabbala, 106, 169, 186.
Kali raur Potassium chloride, 28, 29, 69,
84, 258, 306, 336.
Kali phos Potassium phosphate, viii, 26, 49,
72, 84, 119. 152, 209.
Kali sulph Potassium sulphate, 32, 65, 88,
160, 258, 317.
Kama Manas, 122.
Kanya (Mother of Krishna), 177.
Keres, 57, 114.
Key Stone, 240.
Key to Health, v.
Khem, 123.
Kheper (Egyptian-to be), 123.
Khigalla, 94.
Kidneys, 137, 187, 193, 195, 208, 210, 258,
329.
King George V, 280.
King of Beasts, 130.
King or Beast of Death, 214.
King Jove Nut, 245.
Kingdom of Heaven, 62.
Kingly Work, 266.
Knee, 267, 268, 269.
Knight of the Sacred Vault, 171.
Kophinos (coffin, chest), 111.
Kronos, 285, 286.
Kuna, Frederick, 148, 149, 207.
L
L (Lamed), 182.
Labor, 331.
Lachesis, 93.
Lachrymal Glands, 136.
Ladle, 113.
Lamas, 316.
Lamb. 113, 139, 319.
Lamb of God, 25, 26, 52, 53, 54, 183, 189.
203, 204, 293, 322, 324.
Lameness and Stiffness, 329.
Lamp, 66, 172, 182.
Latin and Greek, 131.
Laughing (Spasmodic), 156.
Law, 77, 238, 242, 330.'
Laying up Increase, 201.
Laziness, 111.
Lead, 96.
Lehanah, 125.
Lechery, 267.
Leda, 89.
Left Pan of Scale, 194.
Lenses, 167, 257.
Leo, 31, 79, 91, 112, 130, 196, 197, 231.
247, 292.
Leprosy, 183.
Lesser Sheepfold, 110.
Letters, 50.
Leucorrhea, 101, 237.
Levi, Eliphas, 62.
Libra, 34, 52, 110, 112, 154, 158, 159, 187.
220, 262, 277, 300.
Liebig, 183.
Life, 112.
Life Essence, 232.
Lifting up the Serpent, 264.
Ligaments, 69, 329.
Light of Nature, 66.
Lighting Effects and Methods, 297.
Limbs Cramp, 156.
Limbs Jerk in Sleep, 259.
Lime phosphate, 39, 40, 278.
Lime-Place, 272.
Limestone and Mortar, 279, 283.
Lime sulphate, 36.
[: 4]
Index
Limitations, 308.
I. ion, 31. 99. 130, 244.
Lion-faced Warriors, 141.
Liquefied Air, 336.
Liquor, 173, 295, 297.
Little Bear, 109, 110.
Little Dipper, 110.
Littlefield, Dr. Chat., 22.
Little Mineral Workmen, 281.
Liver, 27, 73. 82, 137, 167, 237, 258.
Living Bread, 58. 262.
Living Physiological Trees, 85.
Living Silver, 86, 87, 96.
"Living Stones", 69.
Living Water, 323.
Loans and Investments, 270.
Lock Jaw, 156.
Lodestar, 114.
Logos, 116.
Loins, 34.
Longfellow, Henry, 323.
Looking Back, 260.
Lord Bacon, 142.
Lord of Canals, 292.
Lord of Hosts, 54.
"Lord of the Seed", 223.
Lords of the Flame, 116.
Lord's Supper, 262, 273, 290, 319, 323.
Loss of Hair, 282.
Loss of Sense of Smell, 156.
Lost Souls, 222.
Lot's Wife, 268.
Lotus, 287.
Love Darts, 190.
Lucifer, 192, 199, 207.
Lumbago, 329.
Lumps in Breast, 258.
Luna, 106, 125.
Lunacy, 106.
Lungs, 91.
Luyties, Dr., xiii.
Lymph, 240.
Lymphatic Types, 80.
Lyre, vii, 86, 87.
H
M or Mem (14th Hebrew Letter). 32, 168.
169, 170, 226, 286, 287.
Macauliffe, 259.
Macrobuis, 177.
Macroprosophus, 58, 74.
Magenta, 66.
Magic Wheel of Life, 185.
Magnanimity, 151.
Magnesium and Iron Affinity, 155.
Magnesium Diamagnetic, 152.
Magnesium Ferro Silicate, 151.
Magnesium phosphate, 31, 68, 130, 151, 152,
326.
Magnetic Healers, 36, 43.
Magnetic Mineral, 43, 64.
Mahabhuta, 72.
Maia, 86, 174, 175.
Makara. 278, 287.
Mammillary Glands in Head, 115, 116.
Mandala, 287.
Manilius, 321.
"Man, Know Thyaelf", 169.
Manna, 58, 59, 62, 85, 87, 294.
Man Regenerate, 302.
March (Margo), 308.
Marcus, 313.
Margaret, 202.
Mark or Peg, 309.
Markham, Edwin, 27, 83.
Marriage and Partnership, 199.
Marrow, 69, 181, 274.
Mars, 30, 36, 60, 188, 220, 228.
Mary, 42, 118, 160, 168, 178, 286, 287.
Mary Ascends with Jesus, 286.
Mary Magdalene, 171, 179, 191, 199, 322.
Mash-Mashu-Sha-Risu, 94.
Masons, 52, 234, 267.
Massage, 279.
Master Mason, 266.
Mathematics, 77.
Matrix, 112, 164, 187, 311, 331.
Matter, Mater, 312.
May May Day, 73, 77, 81, 85.
McCrillis, 306.
Mediating Principle, 173.
Measles, 99.
Meat, 173.
Medical Insignia, 90.
Medicine, 250, 331.
Medulla, 181.
Medusa, 322.
Menderth, 305.
Menopause, 184, 318.
Menstrual Flow, 125, 157, 318, 329.
Mental Abstraction, 258, 281.
Mental Disorders, 156, 281.
Mental Elasticity, 119.
Mental Light, 288.
Mental Rubbish, 88.
Mental Stamina, 257.
Mentality Weak, 281.
Merchandise, 60, 86, 87, 89, 99.
Merchants, 99.
Mercury, xvii, 29, 31, 60, 61, 65, 83, 86,
88. 90, 92, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101,
114, 188.
Mercury (Metal), 208.
Messenger of the Gods, 65, 83, 95.
Metallic Taste, 82.
Metaphysical Interpretation of Gemini, 84.
Meteoric Iron, 325.
Metis, 287.
Mexican Calendar, 277.
Microbes, 81.
Microprosophus, 74.
Milk and Honey, 115.
Milkmaids of the Sky, 114.
Milky Way, 108, 116.
Milton, John, 203, 300.
"Minera of Man", 67.
"Mineral Doctrine", 67.
Mineral is Mother, 306.
Mineral Springs, 288.
Mineral Workmen, 154.
Minerva, 229, 287.
Mint, 202.
Mithra, 104, 230.
[345]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Mithraic Bull, 214.
Mithuna, 85.
Mitre, 316.
Modalities, 234.
Moerae, 94.
Moisture of the Brain, 58.
Money, 60, 201.
Moon, 103, 113, 257, 273.
Moon Cycle, 299.
Moon Exalted in Taurus, 115.
Morals, 331.
Morning Nausea, 210.
Moses (Divine Germ), 108, 287, 291.
Most High, viii, 57, 74, 105, 192, 226, 236.
Mother Nature, 69, 81, 111.
Mother of Christ, 174, 196.
Mother of God, 322.
Mother (Mater-ial) of Light, 64, 91, 168.
Mother Sign, 29, 112.
Mother's Breast, 29, 104.
Moths, 74.
Motion, 79, 130.
Motion-self, 138.
Motor System, 61, 76, 130, 154.
Mount Meru, 61.
Mount of Aspiration, 278.
Mount of Venus, 190.
Mouth, 234, 237, 282, 307.
Mt. Olympus, 95, 240, 246, 254, 261, 273,
323.
Mucus, 307, 328, 329.
Mucus Membrane, 40, 41, 43, 95.
Mttller, Max, 104, 105, 141, 259.
Mummy, 122.
Mumps, 100, 101.
Muscles Twitch, 307.
Muscular Tissue, 118.
Muses, 184, 211, 251, 257.
Myths, 141.
N
N or Nun, xiv, 56, 166, 171, 181, 266,
295, 319.
Nag, 252, 253.
Naga, 252.
Nails, 37, 38, 124, 237.
Naphtali, 318.
Naphtha, 276.
Narthex, 246.
Narwhal, 274, 275, 277, 278.
Nasal Polypi, 282.
Natrium mur Sodium chloride, 41, 42,
118, 284.
Natrium phos Sodium phosphate, 34, 187.
Natrium sulph Sodium sulphate, 27, 73,
84, 209, 306.
Natura Naturata, 182.
Natural Birth Time, 128.
Natural Food, 70.
Natural Law, vi.
Natural Zodiac, 71, 163, 195, 223.
Nature's Laboratory, 41.
Naturopaths, 69.
Nausea, 210.
Navel, 116.
Necessities of Life, 72.
Neck, 27, 73, 290, 307.
Necrosis of Bones, 258.
Nectar, 99, 138.
Nephalist, 313.
Neptune, 34, 128, 146, 173, 179, 191, 196,
198, 218, 241, 280, 319, 322, 330.
Nerve Ganglia, 75.
Nerve Sheath (Neurilemma), 37.
Nervousness, 71.
Net, 195.
Neural Canal, 241.
Neuralgia, 156, 157, 184, 259, 307.
Neuritis, 156.
Neuter Planets, 88, 164.
Neuter Signs, 88, 164.
Neuter State, 289.
New Bottles for the New Wine, 22.
New Man, xiv, 178, 263, 331.
Nightmare, 82.
Night Sweats, 259.
Nile, 291, 292, 293.
Ninevah, 27.
Nitrogen Gas, 32, 41.
Noises in Ears, 101.
No Life Without Potassium, 69.
Non-functional Albumin, 281.
Non-thinkers, 330.
Non-virile Desires, 179.
North Pole, 114, 150, 335.
North Star. 110, 114.
Northern Hemisphere, 333.
Nose. 211, 234, 258, 329.
Nourishing the Gods, 322.
Nuclei, 105, 108, 111, 113. 115,
116. 322.
Numbers, 50, 201.
Nymph, 240.
o
O (Ayin Hebrew Letter), 182.
Oannes, 323.
Oblique Rayo, 263.
Obliquity, 269.
Oblong, 109.
Ocean God, 278, 300.
Ocean of Thought, 250.
Official Insignia of Physicians, 90.
Offshoots, 84.
Offspring, 84.
Oil, 33, 69, 122, 169, 178, 181, 182, 237, 268,
274, 318.
Old Beliefs, 292.
Old Testament, 57, 133.
Olive, 315.
Olney, 103.
Olympus, 90, 95, 97, 239, 263, 314.
Opal, 207.
Opal Glass, 127.
"Opposite to the Foundation", 213.
Ops, 63.
Optic Nerve, 25.
Optic Thalamus, 24. 25, 26, 56, 59, 60, 76,
127, 136, 172, 268.
Organic and Inorganic, 69.
Orion, 315.
Osiris, 115, 239, 300.
Osseus Lumps, (Growths), 124.
Outstanding Characters, 289.
Index
Ovaries, 121, 165, 197, 235, 237.
Overcoming Death, 100.
Over-eating, 279.
Oxen of Geryon, 73.
Oxonized Oxygen, 125.
Oxygen Carrier, 43, 64, 65, 81, 91, 95,
126. 251, 308, 310, 312, 317, 328.
P
Paganism, 263.
Fain After Eating, 282.
Fain in Bones, 282.
Pain in Ears, 82.
Pain Relieved by Heat, 156.
Pain Remedy (specific), 156.
Painton, Edith F. A. U., viii.
Palpitation of Heart, 211, 282.
Pan, 261, 262, 263, 265, 267, 268, 272,
275.
Panacea, 262.
Panathenaea, 268.
Panic, 269, 272, 282.
Papus, 106, 170, 173, 198.
Paracelsus, 128, 186.
Paradise, 259.
Paralysis, 71, 134, 157, 215.
Parcae, 94.
Parietal Bones, 241.
Pass-Word, 98.
Pastine, 49.
Paul, 242, 276.
Payer and Payee, 195.
Peace, 299.
Pearl. 177, 202.
Pecunia, 202.
Peg, 202, 252.
Pegasus, 250, 251, 257, 259, 265.
Pelican, 121.
Pendulum, 270.
Peptones, 68.
Perfect Elu, 171.
Perfect Health Ratio, 127.
Perfect Mode, 69.
Perfection, v, 65, 86.
Periosteum, 37.
Peritoneum, 95.
Peritonitis, 101.
Perpetual Lamp, 276.
Person, Personality, 202.
Perspiration, 210, 258, 259.
Perversion of Health Methods, 280.
Perverted Corpuscles, 124.
Peter's Denial, 227, 275, 276.
Petra Peter-stone, 35.
Petroleum, 276, 288.
Phaeton, 143, 220, 247.
Philosopher's Stone, 27, 30.
Phoenician Letter N, 168.
Phoenix, 179.
Phosphate of Iron! 43.
Phosphate of Magnesia, 31.
Phrenology, 62, 241.
Psycho-physical Germseed, 167.
Physical Basis of Life, 68.
Physical Conception, 103.
Physical Exhaustion, 71.
Physical Real Estate, 194.
Physical Regeneration, xiv, xv, 22, 71.
Physical Rubbish, 82.
Physical Spade, 258.
Physical Weakling, 127.
i, "Physicians of Heaven", 90.
Physio-chemical Procesa, v.
Physiological Chemistry, vi.
Physiological Fish, 319.
Physiology, 75.
Pia Mater, 106.
Piety. 317.
Pimples, 210, 237, 258, 282.
Pindar, 291.
Pineal Gland, 24, 25, 78. 83, 135, 240, 258.
Pisces, 42, 55, 66, 88, 95, 100, 147, 158,
173, 178, 188, 191, 250, 289, 298, 308.
Pit, 262, 309.
Pituitary Gland, 25, 78, 83, 116, 135, 178,
240, 279, 328.
Pivot of the Planets, 114.
Place of the Most High, 190.
Place of the Skull, (Taurus), 78.
"Place Where One Bows Down", 221.
Plagues of Egypt, 186.
Plan for Man, 204.
Plaster of Paris, 36, 167, 232, 235.
Plato, 104, 300.
Platonist Philosophy, 114.
Pleura, 95.
Pleurisy, 29, 101, 307.
Plutarch, 302.
Pneumonia, 29, 101, 184.
Poison, 183, 275. 295, 329.
Polaris, 109, 110, 114.
Polarization of Breath, 57.
Pole Star, 109, 114, 322.
Poll, 100.
Pope (Papa), 172.
Pores, 258.
Porphyry, 103.
Positive Currents, 70.
Potassium chloride, 28, 29, 84, 328.
Potassium Decomposes Water, 65.
Potassium phosphate, viii, 26, 257.
Potassium sulphate, 69, 181.
Potiphar's Wife, 189.
Potter's Stone, 236.
Pound (Libra), 187.
Prana, 72, 91.
Precipitated Aerial Elements, 27.
Precipitated Spirit, 58.
Pregnancy Nausea, 211.
Preserver of God, 198.
Pressure in Head, 211.
Priest-Physicians, 250.
Primary Colors, 335.
Prisons, 308, 321.
Problem of Religion, 163.
Proclus, 255.
Procreation, 76, 192, 214, 215, 235. 261,
262, 264.
Procreative Fire, 264.
Procreative Fluid Rich in Calcium, 282.
Procreative Germs, 112, 165, 274.
Procyon (Sirius), 176.
[347 ]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Prodigal Son, 82, 140, 141, 266, 319.
Prodigality, 240.
Profession, 269.
Progenitor, 57.
Progeny, 76, 166.
Prohibition, 92.
Prolapsed Pelvic Organs, 197.
Prolapsed Uterus, 18.
Prometheus, 244, 246, 295.
Proserpina, 175.
Prostate, 222, 237, 258.
Proteids, 68, 80.
Proteus, 67, 69, 70, 80, 156.
Protoplasm, 67, 68, 100.
Protoplasmic Seed Material, xv.
Prototype, 107.
Protuberance, 85.
Pubic Bone, 190.
Pulley Nerves, 268.
Pure Astrology, 288.
Purification and Mastery of the Body,
162.
Purification Cross, 88.
Purpose of Astrology, 112.
Purulent Secretions, 237.
Pus, 37, 235, 258.
Pyorrhea, 258.
Pyramid, 185, 334.
Pyrrhic Dance, 103, 295.
0
Quarrelsome Disposition, 210.
Quartz, 38, 250. 256.
Queen Bees. 218.
Queen of Heaven, 149.
Quicksilver, 86, 87.
Quintessence, 181.
Quinsy, 237.
R
Radio Waves, xiv.
Rain, 284, 292, 306.
Ram, 25, 52, S3.
Rama, 55, 74.
Rapacious Spermatozoa, 265.
Real Astrology, 105.
Real Church, 224.
Real Estate, 87.
Rebirth, 122.
Receiving Station, 33, 167.
Records, 273.
Recreation, 115, 123, 261.
Rectum, 258.
Red Eyelids, 258.
Red-Violet, 66.
Redeemer, 323.
Redemption of the Lost Sheep, 54.
Reducing Agent (Sodium), 79, 80.
Reduction of Metals, 125.
Regeneration, 117, 219, 241, 283, 309,
Reincarnating Ego, vii, 135, 311.
Reins (Kidneys), 193.
Religion, 77, 92, 100, 238, 317, 330.
Religious Problem, 163, 242.
Repentance, 271.
Restless Sleep, 282.
Resurrection, 51, 122.
Revelation, 133.
Rhea, 285.
Rheumatic Fever, 101.
Rheumatism, 40, 100, 101, 184, 210.
Rhythm, 294.
"Riding the Goat", 277.
Right Pan of Scale, 195.
Ring Pass-Not, 193, 220.
Riotous Living, 87.
River God, 243.
River of God, 56, 88, 296.
"River of Sheepcote", 214, 216.
"River of the Snake", 214.
"Robbing God", 249, 311.
Robbing the Body, 75.
Rock Crystal, 256, 257.
Rod of Moses, 98.
"Rose" Cold, 307.
"Rose-rash", 211.
Royal Arch of Solomon, 171, 185.
Rubber Tree, 30.
Rubidium, 208.
Ruling Powers, 62.
"Running off" of the Bowels, 167, 237, 307.
Ruskin, 142.
Russia, 243.
Ryno, Dr. Wakeman, 188, 213.
Sabbath, 205.
Sacer, 264.
Sacral Ganglia, 88, 121. 122, 215, 217, 221,
241, 253, 263. 264, 268, 278, 286.
Sacred Cock, 290.
Sacred Fire, 174.
Sacred Scriptures, 294.
Sacred Tent, 318.
Sacred Yellow Fish, 290.
Sacrifice, 38, 162.
"Sagging" Feeling, 118.
Sagittal Eye, 135.
Sagittarius, 37, 38, 85, 88, 112, 173, 178,
195, 238, 314, 330.
Saint Augustine, 224, 308, 309.
Sal Alkali, 66.
Sal Digestivus, 95.
Sal Duplicatum, 185.
Saline Solution, 286, 288.
Saliva, 307.
Saltpeter, 276.
Salts, 186, 231, 265, 289.
Salvation, 331.
Saman, 217.
Samson, 138.
Sand, 257.
Sarcode (Flesh), 68.
Sarcophagus, 236.
Satan, 34, 192, 260, 264.
Satiate, 265.
Saturation Point, 284.
Saturn, 34, 42, 63, 96, 111, 112, 260, 265,
285, 290, 302, 315.
Saucepan, 113.
Scalding, 209, 211.
Scales, 34. 187, 198, 203. 222, 267, 289, 290.
Scalp, 33, 258, 307.
348]
Index
Scapegoat, 278.
Scarabeua, 109. 121, 122, 123.
Scarlet Fever, 99.
Scars, 330.
Scheffler, 186.
Schuessler, Dr. William, vi, vii, xiv, 51,
68, 152, 154, 210, 234, 269, 317, 326.
Sciatic Nerve, 215.
Science of Christianity, 267.
Scorpio, 35, 76. 78, 79, 87, 112, 121, 133,
135. 139, 144, 146, 150, 195, 208, 212,
213, 254, 265, 285, 286.
Scorpions from Crabs, 217, 224.
Scrofula, 282.
Scrotum, 196.
Sea-Goat, 319.
"Sea of Glass", 250.
Seamless Garment, 95, 100.
Second Cycle (Taurus), 83.
Secondary Cause, 210.
Secret Archives, 40.
Secret Candle of God, 66.
Seed, xv, 63, 68, 74, 75, 105, 106, 108, 110,
111, 113, 114, 116, 122, 123, 125, 130, 139,
141, 175, 186, 270, 272, 273, 283, 288, 302,
322.
Seeing Colors, 156.
Seeing Double, 156.
"Seizer of Seed", 108.
Selena, 125.
Self -Abuse, 215, 282.
Self Control, 99, 150, 295.
Self-Redeemed, 229.
Semi-Lunar Ganglia, 164, 167.
Seminal Weakness, 211.
Sensation, 75, 76, 264.
Sensory Nerves, 65.
Sephirotb, 107.
Serous Cavities, 95.
Serpent, 78, 98, 99, 145, 149, 163, 177, 221,
264, 288.
Serpent Fire, 221 264, 278.
Serums, 156.
Seven Churches of Asia, xvii, 272.
Seven Year Cycles, (Uranus), 299.
Seventeenth Vertebra (Balance), 196.
Seventh Period or Cycle, 205.
Sex. 35, 163, 199, 200.
Sex Glands in the Head, 200.
Sextilis, 132, 149, 197.
Sexual Diseases, 184, 211.
Sexual Excesses, 60, 132, 137, 190, 199,
215, 221, 268, 270, 300.
Sexual Perversions, 172.
Shakespeare, 166, 177, 190, 300.
Shear, 93.
Sheep, 113, 183, 262, 263.
Shelley, 143.
Shepherd, 139, 262.
Shewbread, 319.
Ship of St. Peter, 113.
"Ship of the Canal of Heaven," 108.
Shoots, 85.
Shoulders, 91.
Sight, 124, 156.
Sign Most Prolific, 120.
Silicea, 37, 88, 152, 237, 238, 256, 257, 279.
Silver, 78, 79.
Silver Fish, 290.
Sin, 26.
Sin Against the Holy Ghost, 193.
Sirius, 176.
Sir Thomas Vaughan, 66.
Six, 35.
Sixth Period or Cycle of Life, 180.
Skin, 28, 37, 69, 91, 124, 183, 184, 237, 306,
307, 329.
Skinflint, 253.
Skull, 58, 98, 211, 266, 282.
Slaughter Month, 213, 218.
Slaughter of Innocents, 229.
Slavery, 175.
Sleep, 211. 259, 260, 268, 282, 290, 294.
Sleeping Sickneas, 82, 303.
Sluggish Liver, 101.
Slums, 268.
Smallpox, 101.
Smith. Dr., 229, 272, 273, 316, 317, 320, 328.
Sod. 207.
Sodium chloride, 41, 42, 68, 284, 304.
Sodium phosphate. 34, 187.
Sodium sulphate, 27, 28, 73, 209, 294.
Sodom and Egypt, 79, 272, 273.
Soil, 64, 305.
Solar Plexus, 24, 33, 75, 76, 134, 137, 158,
173, 185.
Solar System, 295, 296.
Solomon's Temple, 34, 39, 116.
Soma, 61, 62, US.
Son of Man, xiv, 262, 295.
Sons of God, 105, 118.
Soreness, 306.
Sorrow, 158.
Soul, vi, 114, 135, 311.
Soul Seed, 105.
Souls Descending and Ascending, 104.
Souls in Prison, 246.
Souls in Purgatory, 222.
Sound, 87.
Source of Light, 100.
South Pole, 335.
Southern Fish, 289.
Southern Hemisphere, 333.
Sower of Seed, 123.
Sowing and Reaping, vii, 131.
Sparks, 313.
Spasmodic Remedy, 156.
Spasms, 81, 155.
Spectrum of Potassium, 66.
Speculation, 132, 270.
Speech, 245.
Sperm of the World, 67.
Sperm Whale, 183.
Spermatozoa, 62, 218, 284.
Spermatic Plexus, 165, 197.
Sphinx, 140, 177.
Spica, 176, 177, 178, 202.
Spider, 84, 120.
Spike, 202.
Spinal Canal, 94, 96.
Spinal Cord (Softening), 71.
Spinal Meningitis, 82.
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Spinal Oil, 182.
Spine. 27, 61, 98.
Spinning Salt, 95, 99, 154, 306.
Spirit, vi, viii, 32, 262, 266, 300.
Spirit* Scorched or Bathed, 104.
Spiritual Brain, 74.
Spiritual Ego, 24, 25.
Spiritual Electricity, viii, 51.
Spiritual Gestation, 277.
Spiritual Illumination, xiv, XT.
Spiritual Man, 78.
Spiritual Marriage, 199.
Spiritual Quickening, 180.
Spiritually Mouldy, 75.
Spleen, 103, 104, 107, 108, 111, 112, 113,
114, 115, 116. 120, 121, 124, 139. 285.
Spongioplaam, 68.
Spring Equinox. 50, 52, 76, 82, 84, 174, 189.
Square, 106, 119, 279.
Squaring the Circle, 52, 119.
Squinting, 156.
Stability, 266, 274, 309.
Stable, 175.
Stammering, 157.
Star of Prosperity, 176.
Static Condition of Matter, 206.
Steel or Iron, 250, 326.
Sterilization, 118.
Stick of Brahm, 98.
Sties on Eyes, 258.
Sting of Scorpion, 212.
Stinging Piles, 317.
Stings of Insects, 307.
Stomach. 103. 112, 113, 115, 167, 211, 234,
235, 282, 285, 307.
Stomach Lining. 234.
Stone Meal or Menderth, 304.
St. Peter Cock, 290.
Straightforwardness, 269.
Strange Fancies and Forebodings, 71.
Strength and Sovereignty, 135.
Structure of Organs, 69.
Stunted Growth, 282.
Stupor, 307.
Sub-Conscious Mind, 74, 75.
Sub-Human, 75.
Substance of Being, xv.
Suffocative Feeling, 183.
Sugar of Milk, 41.
Suicidal Tendency, 82.
Sulphate of Potassium, 32, 181.
Sulphur, 79, 80.
Sulphuric Acid, 80.
Summer Solstice, 52, 103, 110.
Sunstroke. 303.
Sun Worshipers, 31.
Super-Microscopic Particles, 205.
Super natural, 24.
Suppuration, 235, 237, 259.
Supreme Architect, 115.
Surgeon, 37, 237, 258.
Sustenance. 113.
Swelling of Ankles, 99, 303.
Swimmer's Cramp, 156.
Sylvite, 95.
Symbol of Cancer (Yod), 106.
Sympathetic System, 164.
Symptoms Worse at Night, 259.
Syndicates, 39.
Synovial Fluid, 40.
Syphilis, 101, 237, 258, 307.
Syringe (Syrinx), 88.
T
Tainted Food, 183.
'lam muz, 110.
Tarot, 107.
Tartarus, 285.
Tau (Cross), 85.
Taurian Age, 27.
Taurus, 27, 28, 53, 63. 64, 73, 85, 105, 121,
127, 133, 141, 230, 243, 294.
Teeth, 124, 210, 237, 282.
Temperance, 295, 296.
Temperature Rises in Afternoon, 184.
Temple of Diana, 272.
Temple of God, xviii, 260, 279.
Tenacity, 106.
Ten Captive Tribes, 82.
Tenth Period or Cycle of Life, 278.
Testes, 121, 124, 165, 196, 218, 222, 223,
235.
Theagenes, 142.
Thebes, vii, viii, 55, 73.
The Coming System, 280.
The Holy Supernal Ones, 58.
The New Man, 170.
The New Name, xix.
Theos, 73.
The Plain and Even Way, 178.
The Precious Vase, 292.
"The Pregnant Woman", 319.
Thermo-fluorescent, 126.
Thermometer, 88, 96.
The Seizer or Stinger, 221.
The Seventh Commandment, 161.
"The Sowing of Seed", 319.
The Strait Gate, 261.
The Thinker, 267.
The Tree of Life, xvi, 56, 61, 77, 78, 98,
100, 239.
The Two Releasers, 234.
The Two Truths, 189.
The Ultimate of Biochemistry, 23.
The Water Attractor, 289.
Thick Blood, 99.
Thieves, 61, 74, 78, 79.
Thinking Cap, 98.
Third Cycle of Life, 89.
Third Eye, 24, 25.
Third Ventricle, 60.
Thirstlessness, 184, 304.
Thirteen, 169, 171, 314.
Thirteenth Degree (Aries), 127.
Thirteenth Degree of Freemasonry, 180, 195.
Thor, 7J.
Thorn, 98.
Thought Transference, 38.
Threads, 84, 85, 94, 95, 99, 106.
Three Fates, 93.
Three Marys, 287.
Three Wise Men, 230.
[350]
Index
Throat, 73, 100, 210, 211. 237, 258, 279,
282, 307, 329.
Throne of Thru, 113.
Thyroid Gland, 279.
Tibetan Book of Wisdom, 115.
Tight Sensation in Head, 282.
Tincture, 283.
Tired on Arising, 306.
Tissue Builder, 31, 69.
Tithes, 60.
Titian*. 285.
Tobacco, 173.
Tongue. (Coatings), 82, 101, 124, 210, 258.
282, 307, 329.
Tonsilitis, 100, 211, 258. 279, 292.
Torso, 59, 76.
Tortoise, 109, 117.
Town-Clerk of Ephesus, 273.
Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil, 56, 61,
98. 231.
Tree of Nerves, 85.
Triangle, Fire Symbol, 201, 256.
Tribe of Judah, 135, 151, 244.
Triturate, 69, 79.
Trophies, 80.
Tros, 293, 294.
True System of Medicine, vi.
Trusts, 39, 270.
Truth, vi, 93, 300.
Tsabaism, 55.
Tubal-cain, 325.
Tuberculosis, 40, 237, 259.
Tumors, 124.
Turning Water into Wine, 91.
Twelfth Period or Cycle of Life, 323.
Twelve, a Complete Process, 169.
Twelve Fruits, 100.
Twigs, 90.
Twins, 29, 89, 132, 288.
Tyndareus, 89.
Typhoid, 101, 184.
Typhon, 321.
Typhus Fever, 101, 184.
Tythea, 285.
u
Ulcerated Throat, 101.
Ulceration, 210, 211, 237, 258, 259.
Ultimate Chemical Atoms, 97.
Ultra-Violet Rays, 126, 152.
Umbilicus, 116.
Unchaste, 161, 229.
Underhill, E., 153.
Understanding, 92, 159, 191, 309. 332.
Undying Energy, 154.
Ungents, 246.
Unicorn, 137, 273, 274, 275.
Unadulterated, 107, 160.
Union, 255.
Union of Pineal and Pituitary, 200.
United States, 29.
Unlucky, 170, 195.
Unregenerate, 269.
Untruth, 330.
Upanishad, 255.
Upper Chamber, 60, 247, 262.
Ur, 287.
Uraeus, 288.
Uranus, vi, 42, 53, 128, 163, 242, 270. 285,
286, 297, 298, 300.
Urea, 208.
Ureter. 208.
Uriel. 288.
Urine, 124, 157, 208, 211, 258, 329.
Urn, 174, 265, 266, 288. 290, 291, 292, 293,
314, 322.
Ursa Major, 112, 139.
Ursa Minor, (Little Bear), 110.
Uterus, 70, 93, 124.
Uvula Elongated, 124.
V
Vagina, 211.
Valvular Heart Trouble, 124.
Van Stone, 123.
Vaporizing Mercury, 96.
Varicose Veins, 30, 118, 124.
Vascular Surfaces, 167, 234, 300.
Vase, 237.
Vatican Library, 186, 244.
Vaughan, Sir Thomas, 66, 67, 69, 186, 219,
326.
Vedas, 90.
Veil of Isis, 29.
Venus, 28, 34, 178, 179, 188, 193, 198, 204,
212, 219, 315, 316, 321, 322.
Venusberg, 191.
Vermontanum, 224.
Vernal Equinox, 319.
Vertebrae, 274.
Vestal Virgin, 174, 275.
Victory over Death, 123.
Violet Rays, 126.
Virgin Birth, 180.
Virgin Egg, 115.
Virginity. 175, 180, 275.
Virgin Mar y, 23, 32, 42, 107, 109, 160, 176,
179, 226, 288, 291, 314, 323.
Virgo, xiv, xvii, 32, 33, 88, 107, 112, 160.
187, 218, 241, 268, 286, 330, 331.
Virility, 180.
Virulent Diseases, 183, 317.
Viscid Fluids, 211.
Vishnu the Preserver, 182, 293.
Vision Blurred, 124, 210.
Vital Cross, 140.
Vitality, 294, 306.
Vitalized Workmen, 39.
Vocal Cords, 87.
Vomiting, 82, 211, 229.
Von Hugel, F., 255.
Vulcan, 65, 108, 327.
w
Wages of Sin, 75.
Wagner's Tannhauser, 191.
Wagoner, 110.
Waite, A. E., 66.
Wakefulness, 329.
Wall Street, 270.
Wand, 98.
War, vii, 74, 296.
Warring Corpuscles, 265.
[351]
The Zodiac and the Salts of Salvation
Warriors of God (Gad), 83.
Waste Products, 80, 303, 329.
Water-Air Creature, 92.
Water Bearer, 32, 42, 81, 284.
Water Glyph, 286.
Water not Retained, 304, 308.
Water of Life, viii, 78. 88, 91, 92, 96, 98,
266, 289, 290, 294, 295, 302, 308, 311, 320.
Wax, 61.
Waxing and Waning, 103.
Weak Mind, 281.
Weakness of Sphincter Muscle, 329.
Wedding at Galilee, 302.
Wedge, 202.
Welding Salt, 127.
Wheatsworth Products, 305.
When Digestion is Impossible, 280.
White Eagle. 35. 36, 195, 219, 225.
White Stone, 36, 39.
Whitman, Walt, 23. 84.
Whooping -Cough, 184.
Widow. 171.
Wildness, 82.
Will, 138.
Williams, M., 253.
Winding Stars (Distaff), 94.
Wine, 22, 91, 302, 308, 311.
Winged Bull. 27.
Winged-fire-head", 247.
Winged Hat of Mercury, 99.
Winged Pole, 61.
Winged Serpent, 265.
Winged Spirits of Life, 285.
Wings, 98.
Winter Solstice, 52, 263.
Wisdom (Athena), 74, 150, 288.
Womb of Nature, 112, 164, 187.
Womb of the Virgin, 172, 180, 187.
Womb Prolapse. 118.
Word, xv, 31, 32, 49, 203.
Word of God (Seed), 116, 255, 287.
Work on the Square, 106.
Workmen (Mineral), 82.
"Workmen of the River-Bed", 108.
World, 59.
Worry. 158.
Wounding of Uranus, 178. 189.
Wounds, 237.
Writer's Cramp, 157.
Wrong Methods, 330.
X
X-Ray, 64, 65.
X Within the Circle, 334.
T
Yarcah, 125.
Yawning (Spasmodic), 157.
Yellow Coating, 210.
Yellowish. Green Discharges, 184.
Yod, 106, 170.
Zeus, 89, 238, 255, 293, 294.
Zodiac, 205.
Zodiacs Inlaid in Floors, 204.
Zoroaster, 256.
[352]
