{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1841__mackay___extraordinary_popular_delusions.pdf","mytitle":"Extraordinary Popular Delusions","mylang":"de"}
ME .MOIRS
OF EXTRAORDINARY
POPULAR DELUSIONS.
BY CHARLES MACKAY.
AUTHOR OF
"THB TllAMEB 1\ND ITS TRIDUTAIUES," "TllB ROPE OF TBE 'IVOJU.1>1" Etll.
" 11 e1t bou de conna(~ les dellrn do l'eopdt humaln. Cha,que peuple" m foileo plua
oil molnagroaal~res."
MILI.OT.
VOL. I.
LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.
~ublfl~tr in ®rlf(narJ~ to ltfr :flllajutJ!.
1841.
n ~,,
I
. . tl, ·. ~: : . . . '~ / -
I;; .J ~ ' 1: ' ; • , , I .. . . .
. ,,;
Coogle
PRBFACE.
THE object of the Author in the following pages
has been to collect the most remarkable instances
of those moral epidemics which have been excited,
sometimes by one cause and sometimes by another,
and to show how easily the masses have been led
astray, and how imitative and gregarious men are,
even in their infatuations and crimes.
Some of the subjects introduced may be familiar
to the reader; but the Author hopes that sufficient
novelty of detail will be.found even in these, to ren-
der them acceptable, while they could not be wholly
omitted in justice to the subject of which it was
proposed to treat. The memoirs of the South Sea
madness and the Mississippi delusion are more com-
plete and copio1.,1s than are to be found elsewhere ;
and the same may be said of the history of the
Witch Mania, which contains an account of its
terrific progress in Germany, a part of the subject
Vl PREFACE.
which bas been )eft comparatively untouched by Sir
Walter Scott, in his " Letters on Demonology and
Witchcraft," the most important that have yet ap-
peared on this fearful but most interesting subject.
Popular delusions began so early, spread so widely,
and have lasted so long, that instead of two or
three volumes, fifty would scarce1y suffice to detail
their history. The present may be considered more
of a miscellany of delusions than a history,-a chap-
ter only in the great and awful book of human folJy
which yet remains to be written, and which Porson
once jestingly said he would write in five hundred
volumes ! Interspersed are sketches of some lighter
. mattersl -amusing instances of the · imitativeness
and wrongheadedness of the people, rather than
examples of folly and delusion.
Religious manias have been purpose1y excluded
as incompatible with the limits prescribed to the
present work ;-a mere list of them would alone b":
sufficient to occupy a volume.
In another volume, should these be favourably
received, the Author will attempt a complete view
of the progress of Alchemy and the philosophical
delusions that sprang from it, including the Rosi-
crucians of a bygone, and the Magnetisers of the
present, era.
London,
April Urd. 1841.
CONTENTS
OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
TJU! lli88JSSTP1'1 SCHilliB
TBB SOOTH S:BA BOBJILB
THB TULIPOIUNJA
RJ!LICS
MOD:BRN PMPHBCIBS
POPULAR A.DJ&tlUTION POR Gl:UL\T THIBVRS
'
JNPLUBNCB GP POLITICS ANl> BJU.tGION ON TJ:I:R HAlR AND
BEARD
DUBLS AND ORDBALS
THB LOVB OP THB IURVBLLOUB AND THB DIBBBLII!P OP THB
TRUB
POPULAR POLLJI!B IN GRBAT OJTJRS
THB 0. p, MANIA •
THB THUGS, OR PHANSJGARll
PAGC
4.
74
189
154
168
208
812
328
342
371
•
Coogle
NATIONAL DELUSIONS.
N'en deplaise acea fous nommes sages de Grece ;
En ce monde il n'eat point de parfaite aagesse;
Tous lea hommes sont fous, et malgre tous leurs soins,
Ne different entre eux que du plus ou du moine.
BotLBAu.
IN reading the history of nations, we find that,
like individuals, they have their whims and their
peculiarities ; their seasons of excitement and reck-
lessness, when they care not what they do. We find
that whole communities suddenly fix their minds
upon one object, and go mad in its pursuit ; that
millions of people become simultaneously impressed
with one delusion, and run after it, till their at-
tention Is caught by some new folly more captivat-
ing than the first. We see one nation suddenly
seized, from its highest to its lowest members, with
a fierce desire of military glory ; another as sud-
denly becoming crazed upon a religious scruple,
and neither of them recovering ita senses until it
VOL. t. B
NATIONAL DELUSIONS.
has shed rivers of blood and sowed a harvest of
groans and tears, to be reaped by its posterity.
At an early age in the annals of Europe its po-
pulation lost their wits about the Sepulchre of
Jesus, and crowded in frenzied multitudes to the
Holy Land: another age went mad for fear of the
Devil, and ofFered up ·h'un·dreds of thousands of
victims to the delusion of witchcraft. At another
time, the many became crazed on the subject of
the Philosopher's Stone, and committed follies till
then unheard of in the pursuit. It was once thought
a venial ofFence in very many countries of Europe
to destroy an enemy by slow JWison. Persons
who would have revolted at the idea of stabbing
a man to the heart, drugged his pottage without
scruple. Ladies of gentle birth and manners caught
the contagion of murder, until poisoning, under
their auspices, bec.ame quite "fashionable. Some
delusions, though notorious 'to all the world, have
sub~isted for ages, flourishing as widely among ci-
vilized and polisned nations as among the early
~arbarians with whom they originated,- that of
duelling, for instance, and the belief in omens and
divination of the future, which seem to defy the
pr<rgress of knowledge 'to eradicate entirely from
the popular mind. Money, again, 'has often been
a cause of the delusion of multitudes. Sober na-
tions have all at 'orice become desperate gamblers, ·
and risked almost 'their existence upon the turn of
a piece of paper. To trace the history of the mo!it
NATIONAL DELUSIONS.
prominent of these delusions is the object of the
present pages. Men, it bas been well said, think
in herds; it will be seen that they go mad in herds,
while they only recover their senses slowly, and
one by one.
In the present state of civilization, society has
often sh<?wn itself very prone to run a career of
folly from the last-mentioned cause. This in(a-
tuation has seized upon whole nations in a most
extraordinary manner. France, with her Missis-
sippi madness, sat the fir-st great exampl_
e, and was
very soon imitatea 'by 'England wfth her •&>uth Sea
Bubble. At an earlier period, Holland made her-
self still more ridiculous .in the ~yes of the world,
by t'he frenzy which came over he.r people for
the love of Tulips. Melancholy as all these de-
!lusions were in their ultimate results, their-history
is most amusing. A more ludicrous and yet pain-
,ful sp&etacle, than that w.hich Holland presented
1
in .the years 1635 and 1686, or France in 17J9
r
and 17£0, can hardly be imagined. Taking them
-in •the order of their importance, we shall .com-
·mence our histor.y with John Law and the famous
Mississippi scheme of ~he years above mentioned.
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
Some in clandestine companies combine;
Erect new stocks to trade beyond the line ;
With air and empty names beguile the town,
And raise new credits first, then cry 'em down;
Divide the empty nothing into shares,
And set the crowd together by the ears.
DBPOB.
THE personal character and career of one man
are so intimately connected with the great scheme
of the years 1719 and 17.20, that a history of the
Mississippi madness can have no fitter introduction
than a sketch of the life of its great author, John
Law. Historians are divided in opinion as to whe-
ther they should designate him a knave or a mad-
man. Both epithets were unsparingly applied to
him in his lifetime, and while the unhappy conse-
quences of his projects were still deeply felt. Pos-
terity, however, has found reason to doubt the
justice of the accusation, and to confess that John
Law was neither knave nor madman, but one more
deceived than deceiving; more sinned against than
\ h\ I
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 5
sinning. He was thoroughly acquainted with the
philosophy and true principles of credit. He un-
derstood the monetary question better than any
man of his day; and if his system.fell with a crash
so tremendous, it was not so much his fault as that
of the people amongst whom he had erected it.
He did not calculate upon the avaricious frenzy of
a whole nation; he did not see that confidence, like
mistrust, could be increased, ahnost ad i,yinitum,
and that hope was as extravagant as fear. . How
was he to foretell that the French people, like the
man in the fable, would kill, in their frantic eager-
ness, the fine goose he had brought to lay them
so many gold.en eggs? His fate was like that
which may be supposed to have overtaken the first
adventurous boatman who rowed from Erie to On-
tario. Broad and smooth was the river on which
he embarked; rapid and pleasant was his progress;
and who was to stay him in his career? Alas for
him! the cataract was nigh. He saw, when it was
too late, that the tide which wafted him so joy-
ously along was a tide of destruction; and when he
endeavoured to retrace his way, he found that the
current was too strong for his weak efforts to stem,
and that be drew nearer every instant to the tre-
mendous falls. Down he went over the sharp rocks,
and the waters with him. He was dashed to pieces
with his bark, but the waters, maddened and turned
to foam by the rough descent, only boiled and
\ h\ I
6 THE MISSISSIPPI 3CHEM.E.
bubbled for a time, and then flowed on again as
smoothly as ever. Just so it was with Law and
the French people. He was the boatman and they
were the waters.
John Law was born at Edinburgh in the year
1671. His father was the younger son of an
ancient family in Fife, and carried on the busi-
ness of a goldsmith and banker. He amassed con-
siderable wealth in his trade, sufficient to enable
him to gratify the wish, so common among hiJ
countrymen, of adding a territorial designation to
his name. He purchased with this view tne estates
of Lauriston and Randleston, on the Frith of
Forth, on the borders of West and Mid Lothian,
and was thenceforth known as Law of Lauriston.
The subject of our memoir, being the eldest son,
was received into his father's counting-house at the
age of fourteen, and for three years laboured hard
to acquire an insight into the principles of bank-
ing, as then carried on in Scotland. He had
always manifested great love for the study of num-
bers, and his proficiency in the mathematics was
considered extraordinary in one of his tender y~ars.
At the age of seventeen he was tall, strong, and
well made; and his face, although deeply scarred
with the small-pox, was agreeable in its expression,
and full of intelligence. At this time he began to
neglect bis business_, and becoming vain of his
person, ·indulged in considerable extravagance of
\ h\ I
TH~ ¥ISSIS~IPPI SCHEME. 7
attire: He was a great favourite wit~ the ladies,
by whom he was called Beau Law, while the other
sex, despising his foppery, nicknamed him Jessamy
John. At the death of his father, which happened
in 1688, he withdrew entirely from the desk, whicl'\
had become so irksome, and being possessed of th~
~even~es of th~ paternal estate of Laurist.on, be
proceede~ to ~ondon, to &ee t~e world.
He was now very young, very vain, good-look-:-
ing, to~e~~b~y rich, and quite uncontrolled. lt ~'
no wonder that, on his arriva~ in the capit~l, he
should lau~ch out into extr~vagance. He sqon be-
came a regul&r frequenter of the g$~ing:-houses~
~nd by purs'uing a certain plan, bf!-sed upon s~me
abstruse calculation of chances~ be contrived to gain
considerable sums. All the gamblers enyie~ him
~is luclt, and Jllany made it a point ~o watch ~s
pl~y,·and stake their money on the ~arne chances.
ln affair~ of g~llantry he was equa11y f~rtunate ;-
ladies <?f tb~ first rank smiled graciously ~pon the
handsome Scf?tcbm~n-the young, the rich, the
witty, and the obliging. But all these successes
only paved the way for reverses. After be had been
for nine years exposed to the dangerous attractions
of the gay life he was leading, he 'J?ecame an irre-
coverable gambler. As his love of play increased
in violence, it diminished in prudence. Great losses
were only to be repaired by still greater ventures,
and one unhappy day he lost more thlln he could
8 THE MISSISSlPPl SCHEME.
repay without mortgaging his family estate. To
that step he was driven at last. At the same
time his gallantry brought him into trouble. A
love affair, or slight flirtation, with a lady of the
name of Villiers,• exposed him to the resentment
of a Mr. Wilson, by whom he was challenged to
fight a duel. Law accepted, and 'had the ill for-
tune to shoot his antagonist dead upon the spot.
He was arrested the same day, and brought to
trial for murder by the relatives of Mr. Wilson.
He was afterwards found guilty, and sentenced
to death. The sentence was commuted to a fine,
upon the ground that the offence only amounted
to manslaughter. An appeal being lodged by a
brother of the deceased, Law was detained in the
King's Bench, whence, by some means or other,
which he never explained, he contrived to escape ;
and an action being instituted against the she-
riffs, he was advertised in the Gazette, and a re-
ward offered for his apprehension. He was de-
scribed as t• Captain John Law, a Scotchman,
aged twenty-six; a very tall, black, lean man ;
well shaped, above six feet high, with large pock-
holes in his face ; big nosed, and speaking broad
and loud." As this was rather a caricature than
a description of him, it has been supposed that
it was drawn up with a view to favour his escape.
He succeeded in reaching the Continent, where he
travelled for three years, and devoted much of his
• Miss Elizabeth Villiers, afterwards Countess ofOrkney.
j
'tHE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 9
·attention to the monetary and banking affairs of
"the countries through which he passed. He stayed
·a few months in Amsterdam, and speculated to
some extent in the funds. His mornings were
devoted to the study of finance and the principles
of trade, and his evenings to the gaming-house.
It is generally believed that he returned to Edin-
burgh in the year 1700. It is certain that he pub-
lished in that city his " Proposals and Reasons for
constituting a Council of Trade!' This pamphlet
did not excite much attention.
In a short time afterwards he published a pro-
ject for establishing what be caJled a Land-bank,•
the notes issued by which were never to exceed
the value of the entire lands of the state, upon
ordinary interestJ or were to be equal in value
·to the land, with the right to enter into possession
at a certain time. The project excited a good
·deal of discussion in the Scottish parliament, and
a motion for the establishment of such a bank
was brought forward by a neutral partyJ called
the Squadrone, whom Law had interested in his
favour. The Parliament ultimately passed a reso-
lution to the effect, that, to establish any kind of
·paper credit, so as to force it to pass, was an
improper expedient for the nation.
Upon the failure of this project, and of his
efforts to procure a pardon for the murder of Mr.
• The wits of the day called it a sand-hank, which would wr«k
' the vessel of the state.
lO THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
Wilson, Law withdrew to the Continent, and re-
sumed his old habits of ga~ing. For fourteen years
he continued to roam about, in Flanders, Holland,
Germany, Hungary, Italy, and France. He soon
became intimately acquainted with the extent Q(
the trade and resources of each, and daily more
confirmed in his opinion that no country could -pros-
per without a paper currency. During the whole of
this time he appears to have chiefly supported him-
self by successful play. At every gambling-hous~
of note in the capitals of Europe, he was known
and appreciated as one better skilled in the in-
tricacies Qf chance than any other man of the day.
It is stated in the Biographie Universelle that he
was ·expelled, first from Venice, and afterwards
from Genoa, by the magistrates, who thought him
a visitor too dangerous for the youth of those ci~ie~.
During his residence in Paris he rendered himself
obnoxious to D'Argenson, the lieutenant-general of
the police, by whom he was ordered to quit the
capital. This did not take place, however, before
he had made the acquaintance in the saloons, of
the Duke de Vendome, the Prince de Conti, and
of tbe gay Duke of Orleans, the latter of whom was
destined afterwards to exercise so much influence
over his fate. The Duke of Orleans was pleased
with the vivacity and good sense of the Scottisb
adventurer, while the latter was no less pleased
with the wit and amiability of a prince who pro-
mised to become his patron. They were often
THE J41SSISSIPPJ S.CHE-t:E. 11
thrown into each other's society, and Law seized
every opportunity to instil his financial doctrines
into the mind of one whose proximity to the throne
pointed him out as des-tined, at no very distant
date, to play an important part in the govern-
ment.
Shortly before the death of Louis XIV, or, as
some say, in 1'108, Law proposed a scheme of fi.
nance to Desmarets, the Comptroller. Louis is
reported to have inquired whether the projector
were a Catholic, and, on being answered in the
negative, to have declined having anything to do
with him.•
It was after this repulse that he visited Italy.
HiJ mind being still occupied with schemes of
finance, he proposed to Victor Amadeus, Duke of
Savoy, to establish his land~bank in that country.
The Duke replied that his dominions were too
circumscribed for the execution of so great a pro-
ject, and that he was by far too poor a potentate
to be ruined. He advised him, howev~r, to try the
King of France once more ; for he was sure, if he
knew anything of the French character, that the
• This anecdote, which is related in the correspondence of Ma-
dame de Baviere, Duchess of Orleans, and mother of the Regent,
is discredited by Lord John RuSBell, in his "History of the princi-
pal Statea of Europe, from the Peace of Utrecht;" for what reason
he does not inform us. There is no doubt that- Law proposed his
scheme to Desmarets, and that Louis refused to hear of it. The
reason given for the refwal is quite consistent with the character of
that bigoted and tyrannical monarch.
12 THE MISSI~SIPPI SCHEME.
people would be delighted with a plan, not only
so new, but so plausible.
Louis XIV. died in 1715, and the heir to the
throne being an infant only seven years of age~
the Duke of Orleans assumed the reins of govern.
ment, as Regent, during his minority. Law now
found himself in a more favourable position. The
tide in his affairs had come, which, taken at the
flood, was to waft him on to fortune. The Regent
was his friend, already acquainted with his theory
and pretensions, and inclined, moreover, to aid him
in any efforts to restore the wounded credit of
France, bowed down to the earth by the extrava-
gance of the long reign of Louis XIV.
Hardly was that monarch laid in his grave ere
the popular hatred, suppressed so long, burst forth
against his memory. He who, during his life, had
been flattered with an excess of adulation, ·to which
history scarcely offel'S a parallel, was now·cursed as
a tyrant, a bigot, and a plunderer. His statues
were pelted and disfigured ; his effigies torn down,
amid the execrations of the populace, and his name
rendered synonymous with selfishness and oppres-
sion. The glory of his arms was forgotten, and
nothing was remembered but his reverses, his ex-
travagance, and his cruelty.
Tee finances of the country were in a state
of the utmost disorder. A profuse and corrupt
monarch,. whose profuseness and corruption were
imitated by almost every functionary, from the
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. IS
highest to the lowest grade, had brought France
to the verge of ruin. The national debt amounted
to 8000 millions of livres, the revenue to 145 mil-
lions, and the expenditure to 1.42 millions per
annum ; leaving only three millions to pay the in-
terest upon 8000 millions. The first care of the
Regent was to discover a remedy for an evil of
such magnitude, and a council was early summoned
to take the matter into consideration. The Duke
de St. Simon was of opinion that nothing could
save the country from revolution but a remedy at
once bold and dangerous. He advised the Rege·nt
to. convoke the States-General, and declare a na-
tional bankruptcy. The Duke de Noailles, a man
of accommodating principles, an accomplished cour-
tier, and totally averse from giving himself any
trouble or annoyance that ingenuity could escape
from, opposed the project of St. Simon with all his
jnfluence. He represented the expedient as alike
dishonest and ruinous. The Regent was of the
same opinion, and this desperate remedy fell to the
ground.
The measures ultimately adopted, though they
promised fair, only aggravated the evil. The first,
and most dishonest measure, was of no advantage
to the state. A recoinage was ordered, by which
the currency was depreciated one-fifth; those who
took a thousand pieces of gold or silver to the mint
received back an amount of coin of the same nomi-
nal value, but only four-fifths ofthe weight of metal.
l.ft THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
By this contrivance the treasury gained seventy-two
millions of livres, and all the commercial operations
of the country were disordered. A trifling dimi-
nution of the taxes silenced the clamours of the
people, and for the slight present advantage the
great prospective evil was forgotten.· ..
A chamber of justice was next instituted, to in-
quire into the malversations of the loan...contractors
and the farmers of the reve~ues. Tax collectors
are never very popular in any country, but those
of France at this period ·deserved all the odium
with which they were loaded. As soon as the11e
.farmers-general, with all their hosts of subordinate
agents, called malt6tiers,• were called tu account
for their misdeeds, the most extravagant joy took
possession of the nation. 'J;'he Chamber of Justice,
instituted chiefly for this purpose, was endowed
with very extensive powers. It was composed of
the· presidents and councils of the parliament, the
judges of the Courts of Aid and of Requests, and
the .officers of the Chamber of.Account, under the
general presidence of the minister of finance. In-
formers were encouraged to give evidence against
the offenders by the promise of one-fifth part of the
fines and confiscations. A tenth of all concealed
effects belonging to the guilty was .promised to
such as should fuTnish the means of discovering
them.
• From nwltdte, an oppressive tax.
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 15
The promu)gation of the edict constituting this
court caused a degree of consternation among those
principally concerned which can only be accounted
for o·n the supposition that tbe'ir peculation had been
enormous. But they met wit.h no sympathy. The
proceedings against them justified their terror.
The Bastile was soon unable to contain the pri-
soners that were sent to it, and the gaols all over
the country teemed with guilty or suspected per-
sons. An order was issued to all innkeepers and
postmasters to refuse horses to such as endeavoured
to seek safety in flight ; and all persons were for-
bidden, under heavy fines, to harbour them or fa-
vour their evasion. Some were condemned to the
pillory, others to the gallies, and the least guilty to
fine and imprisonment. One only, Samuel Ber-
nard, a rich banker, and farmer-general of a pro-
vince remote from the capital, was sentenced to
death. So great had been the illegal profits of
this man,-looked upon as the tyrant and op-
pressor of his district,- that he offered six millions
of livres, or 250,0001. sterling, to be allowed to
-escape.
His bribe was refused, and he suffered the pe-
nalty of death. Others, perhaps more guilty, were
more fortunate. Confiscation, owing to the con-
cealment of their treasures by-the delinquents, often
'produced less money 'than a fine. The severity·of
the government relaxed, and fines, under the de-
16 THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEMR.
nomination of taxes, were indiscriminately levied
upon all offenders. But so corrupt was every de-
partment of the administration, that the country
benefited but little by the sums which thus flowed
into the treasury. Courtiers, and courtiers' wives
and mistresses, came in for the chief share of the
spoils. One contractor had been ta;xed in propor-
tion to his wealth and guilt, at the sum of twelve
millions of livres. The Count • • •, a man of
some weight in the government, called upon him,
and offered to procure a remission of the fine, if
he would give him a hundred thousand crowns.
H Vous etes trop tard, mon ami," replied the fi-
nancier; " I have already made a bargain with
your wife for fifty thousand."t
About a hundred and eighty millions of livres
were levied in this manner, of which eighty were
applied in payment of the debts contracted by tpe
government. The remainder found its way into
the pockets of the courtiers. Madame de Mainte-
non, writing on this subject, says, " We hear every
day of some new grant of the Regent; the peo-
ple murmur very much at this mode of employ-
ing the money taken from the peculators.'' The
t This anecdote is related by M. de la Rode, in his Life of Phi-
lippe ofOrleans. It would have looked more authentic if he had
given the names ofthe dishonest contractor and the still more dis-
honest minister. But M. de la Rode's book is liable to the same
objection as most of the French memoirs of that and ofsubsequent
periods. It is sufficient with most of them that an anecdote be
ben trot~cilo ; the t~ero is but matter ofsecondary consideration.
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 17
people, who, after the first burst of their resent·
ment is over, generally express a sympathy for the
weak, were indignant that so much severity should
be used to so little purpose. They did not see the
justice of robbing one set of rogues to fatten an-
other. In a few months all the more guilty had
been brought to punishment, and the chamber of
justice looked for victims in humbler walks of life.
Charges offraud and extortion were brought against
tradesmen of good character, in consequence of the
great inducements held out to common informers.
They were compelled to lay open their affairs be-
fore this tribunal in order to -establish their inno-
cence. The voice of complaint resounded from
every side, and at the expiration of a year the
government found it advisable to discontinue fur-
ther proceedings. The chamber of justice was
suppressed, and a general amnesty granted to all
against whom no charges had yet been preferred. -
In the midst of this financial confusion Law ap-
peared upon the scene. No man felt more deeply
than the Regent the deplorable state of the coun-
try, but no man could be more averse from putting
his shoulders manfully to the wheel. He disliked
business; he signed official documents without pro-
per examination, and trusted to others what he
should have undertaken himself. The cares in-
separable from his high office were burdensome
to him; he saw that something was necessary to
be done, but he lacked the energy to do it, and
VOL. I. c
18 THE MISSISSIPPI SC!JEME.
had not virtue enough to sacrifice his ease and his
pleasures in the attempt. No wonder that, with
this character, he listened favourably to the mighty
projects, so easy of execution, of the clever adv~n­
turer whom he bad formerly known, and whose
talents he appreciated.
When Law presented himself at court, he was
most cordially received. He offered two memo-
rials to the Regent, in which he set forth the
evils that had befallen France, owing to an in-
f!ufficient currency. at different times depreciated.
He asserted that a metallic currency, unaided by
a paper money, was wholly inadequate to the
wants of a commercial country. and particularly
'cited the examples of Great Britain and Holland
to show the advantages of paper. He used many
sound arguments on the subject of credit, and
proposed, as a means of restoring that of France,
then at so low an ebb among the nations, that
he should be allowed to set up a bank, which
should have the management of the royal reve-
nues, and issue notes, both on that and on land-
ed security. He further proposed that this bank
should be administered in the King's name, but
subject to the control of commissioners, to be
named by the States-General.
While these memorials were under consideration,
Law translated into French his essay on money
and trade, and used every means to extend through
the nation his renown as a financier. He soon
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 19
became talked of. The confidants of the Regent
spread abroad his praise, and every one expected
great things of Monsieur L888.•
On the 5th of May, 1716, a royal edict was
published, by which Law waa authorised, in con-
junction with his brother, to establish a bank,
under the name of Law and Company, the notea
of which should be received in payment of the
taxea. The capital was fixed at six millions of
livres, in twelve thousand shares of five hundred
Jivres each, purchaiable one-fourth in specie and
the remainder in hilkts tfetat. It wo.s not thought
expedient to grant him the whole of the privileges
prayed for in his memorials until experience should
have shown their safety and advantage.
Law was now on the high road to fortune. The
study of thirty years was brought to guide him
in the management of his bank. He made all hit
notes payable at sight, and in the coin current
at the time they were issued. This last was a
master.stroke of policy, and immediately rendered
his notes more valuable than the precious metals.
The latter weTe constantly liable to depreciation
by the unwise, tampering of the government. A
thousand livres of silver might be worth their no-
minal value one day and be reduced one-sixth ~he
• The French pronounced his name in this manner to avoid the
Wlgallic sound, aw. After the failure ofhis scheme, the ';ags said
the nation was ltut~e de lui, and proposed that he ahould m future
be known by the ti&Dle of Moll8ieur He/a.! !
c2
'I
'
20 THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
next, but a note of Law's bank retained its original
value. He publicly declared at the same time that
a banker deserved death if he made issues without
having sufficient security to answer all demands.
The consequence was, that his notes advanced ra-
pidly in public estimation, and were received at
one per cent. more than specie. It was not long
before the trade of the country felt the benefit.
Languishing commerce began to lift up her head ;
the taxes were paid with greater regularity and
Jess murmuring, and a degree of confidence was
established that could not fail, if it continued, to
become still more advantageous. In the course
of a year Law'~ notes rose to fifteen per cent. pre-
mium, while the billets d'etat, or notes issued by the
government, as security for the debts contracted
by the extravagant Louis XIV, were at a discount
of no less than seventy-eight and a half per cent.
The comparison was too great in favour of Law
not to attract the attention of the whole king-
dom, and his credit extended itself day by day.
Branches of his bank were almost simultaneously
established at Lyons, Rochelle, Tours, Amiens,
and Orleans.
The Regent appears to have been utterly asto-
nished at his success, and gradually to have con-
ceived the idea, that paper, which could so aid
a metallic currency, could entirely supersede it.
Upon this fundamental error he afterwards acted.
In the mean time, Law commenced the famous
THR MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. !tl
project which has handed his name down to pos-
terity. He proposed to the Regent, who could
refuse him nothing, to establish a company, that
should have the exclusive privilege of trading to
the great river Mississippi and the province of
Louisiana, on its western bank. The country was
supposed to abound in the precious ·metals, and
the company, supported by the profits of their ex-
clusive commerce, were to be the sole farmers of
the taxes, and sole coiners of money. Letters
patent were issued, incorporating the company, in
August 1717. The capital was divided into two
hundred thousand shares of five hundred livres
each, the whole of which might be paid in billets
d'etat, at their nominal value, although worth no
more than 160 livres in the market.
It was now that the frenzy of speculating began
to seize upon the nation. Law's bank had effected
so much good, that any promises for the future
which he thought proper to make were readily
believed. The Regent every day conferred new
privileges upon the fortunate projector. The bank
obtained the monopoly of the sale of tobacco;
the sole right of refinage of gold and silver, and
was finally erected into the Royal Bank of France,
Amid the intoxication of success, both Law and
the Regent forgot the maxim so loudly proclaimed
by the former, that a banker deserved death who
made iss.ues of paper without the necessary funds
to provide for them. As soon as the bank, from
~i THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
a private, became a public institution, the Regent
caused a fabrication of notes to the amount of one
thousand millions of 1ivres. This was the first
departure from sound principles, and one for which
Law is not justly blameable. While the affairs
of the bank were under his control, the issues
had never exceeded sixty millions. Whether Law
opposed the inordinate increase is not known, but
as it took place as soon as the bank was made
a royal establishment, it is but fair to lay the
blame of the change of system upon the Regent.
Law found that he lived under a despotic govern-
ment, but he was not yet aware of the pernicious
influence which such a government could exercise
upon so delicate a framework as that of credit.
He discovered it afterwards to his cost, but in
the mean time suffered himself to be impelled by
the Regent into courses which his own reason must
have di~approved. With a weakness most culpa-
ble, be lent his aid in inundating the country with
paper money, which, based upon no solid founda-
tion, was sur.e to fall, sooner or later. The extra-
ordinary present fortune dazzled his eyes, and pre-
vented him from seeing the evil day that would
burst over his head, when once, from any cause
or other, the alarm was sounded. The Parliament
were from the first jealous of his influence as a
fbreigner, and bad, besides, their misgivings as
to the safety of his projects. As his influence
extended, their animosity increased. D'Aguesseau,
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. !3
the Chancellor, was unceremoniously dismissed by
the Regent for his opposition to the vast increase
of paper money, and the constant depreciation of
the gold and silver coin of the realm. This only
served to augment the enmity of the Parliament,
and when D'Argenson, a man devoted to the inte-
rests of the Regent, was appointed to the vacant
chancellorship, and made at the same time minister
of finance, they became more violent than ever.
The first measure of the new minister caused a
further depreciation of the coin. In order to ex-
tinguish the billets d'etat, it was ordered that per-
sons bringing to the mint four thousand livres in
specie and one thousand livres in billet& d'etat,
should receive back coin to the amount of five
thousand livres. D'Argenson plumed himself
mightily upon thus creating five thousand new
and smaller livres out of the four thousand old
and larger ones, being too ignorant of the true
principles of trade and credit to be aware of the
immense injury he was inflicting upon both.
The Parliament saw at once the impolicy and
danger ofsuch a system, and made re~ated remon-
strances to the Regent. The latter refused tQ enter-
tain their petitions, when the Parliament, by a bold,
and very unusual stretch of authority, commanded
that no money should be received in payme~t but
that of the old standard. The Regent sm;nmoned
a lit dejuatice, and annulled the decree. The Par-
liament resisted, and issued another. Again the
24< THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
Regent exercised his privilege, and annulled it, till
the Parliament, stung to fiercer opposition, passed
another decree, dated August 12th, 1718, by which
they forbade the bank of Law to have any con-
cern, either direct or indirect, in the administra-
tion of the revenue; and prohibited all foreigners,
under heavy penalties, from interfering, either in
their own names, or in that of others, in the manage-
ment of the finances of the state. The Parliament
considered Law to be the. author of all the evil, and
some of the counsellors, in the virulence of their
enmity, proposed that he should be brought to
trial, and, if found guilty, be hung at the gates
of the Palais de Justice.
~aw, in great alarm, fled to the Palais Royal,
and threw himself on the protection of the Regent,
praying that measures might be taken to reduce
the Parliament to obedience. The Regent had
nothing so much at heart, both on that account
and because of the disputes that had arisen relative
to the legitimation of the Duke of Maine and the
Count of Thoulouse, the sons of the late King.
The Parliament was ultimately overawed by the
arrest of their president and two of the C{)unsel-
lors, who were sent to distant prisons.
Thus the first cloud upon Law's prospects blew
over i freed from apprehension of personal danger,
he devoted his attention to his famous Missis-
sippi project, the shares of which were rapidly
rising, in spite of the Parliament. At the com-
THE MlSSISSIPPl SCHEME. 25
mencement of the year 1719 an edict was pub-
lished, granting to the Mississippi Company the
exclusive privilege of trading to the East Indies,
China, and the South Seas, and to all the posses-
sions of the French East India Company, esta-
blished by Colbert. The Company, in consequence
of this great increase of their business, assumed,
as more appropriate, the title of Company of the
Indies, and created fifty thousand new shares. The
prospects now held out by Law were most mag-
nificent. He promised a yearly dividend of two
hundred livres upon each share of five hundred,
which, as tl1e shares were paid for in billets d'etal,
at their nominal value, but worth only 100 livres,
was at the rate of about 120 per cent. profit.
The public enthusiasm, which had been so long
rising, could not resist a vision so splendid. At
least three hundred thousand applications were
made for the fifty thousand new shares, and Law's
house in the Rue de Quincampoix was beset from
morning to night by the eager applicants. As it
was impossible to satisfy them all, it was several
weeks before a list of the fortunate new stockhold-
ers could be made out, during which time the pub-
lic impatience rose to a pitch of frenzy. Dukes,
marquises, counts, with their duchesses, marchio-
nesses, and countesses, waited in the streets for
hours every day before Mr. Law's door to know the
result. At last, to avoid the jostling of the ple-
beian crowd, which, to the number of thousands,
~6 TilE MlSSISSIPPl SCHEME.
filled the whole thoroughfare, they took apartments
in the adjoining houses, that they might be con-
tinually near the temple whence the new Plutus
was diffusing wealth. Every day the value of the
old shares increased, and the fresh applications,
induced by the golden dreams of the whole nation,
became so numerous that it was deemed advisable
to create no less than three hundred thousand new
shares, at five thousand livres each1 in order that
the Regent might take advantage of the popular
enthusiasm to pay off the national debt. For this
purpose, the sum of fifteen hundred millions of
livres was necessary. Such was the eagerness of
the nation1 that thrice the sum would have been
subscribed if the government had authorised it.
Law was now at the zenith of his prosperity~
and the people were rapidly approaching the zenith
of their infatuation. The highest and the lowest
classes were alike filled with a vision of boundless
wealth. There was not a person of note among
the aristocracy, with the exception of the Duke of
St. Simon and Mar~thal Villars, who was not en-
gaged in buying or selling stock. People of every
age and sexll and condition in life, speculated in
the rise and fall of the Mississippi bonds. The
Rue de Quincampoix was the grand resort of the
jobbers, and it being a narrow, inconvenient street,
accidents eontinually occurred in it, from the tre..:
mendous pressure of the crowd. Houses in it,
worth, in ordinary times, a thousand livres of yearly
THE MISSISSIPPJ' SCHEME. 27
rent, yielded as much as twelve or sixteen thou-
sand. A cobbler, who had a stall in it, gained
about two hundred livres a day by letting it out,
and furnishing writing materials to brokers and
their clients. The story goes, that a hump-backed
man who stood in the street gained considerable
sums by lending his hump as a writing-desk to
the eager speculators ! The great concourse of
persons who assembled to do business brought a
still greater concourse of spectators. These again
drew all the thieves and immoral characters of
Paris to the spot, and constant riots and disturb-
ances took place. . At nightfall, it was often found
necessary to send a troop of soldiers to clear the
street.
Law, finding the inconvenience of his residence,
removed to the Place VendOme, whither the crowd
of agioteurs followed him. That spacious square
soon became as thronged as the Rue de Quincam-
poix: from morning to night it presented the ap-
pearance ofa fair. Booths and tents were erected
for the transaction of business and the sale of
refreshments, and gamblers with their roulette
tables stationed themselves in the very middle of
the place, and reaped a golden, or rather a paper,
harvest from the throng. TheBoulevards and pub-
lic gardens were forsaken ; parties of pleasure took
their walks in preference in the Place Vend6me,
which became the fashionable lounge of the idle,
as well as the general rendezvous of the busy.
28 THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
The noise was so great all day, that the ChancelJor,
whose court was situated in the square, complained
to the Regent and the municipality, that he could
not hear the advocates. Law, when applied to,
expressed his willingness to aid in the removal of
the nuisance, and for this purpose entered into a
treaty with the Prince de Carignan for the HOtel
de Soissons, which had a garden of several acres
in the rear. A bargain was concluded, by which
Law became the purchaser of the hotel, at an enor-
mous price, the Prince reserving to himself the
magnificent gardens as· a new source of profit.
They contained some fine statues and several foun-
tains, and were altogether laid out with much taste.
As soon as Law was installed in his new abode,
an edict was published,·forbidding all persons to
buy or sell stock anywhere but in the gardens of
the H6te1 de Soissons. In the midst among the
trees, about five hundred small tents and pavilions
were erected, for the convenience of the stock-job-
bers. Their various colours, the gay ribands and
banners which floated from them, the busy crowds
which passed continually in and out-the incessant
hum of voices, the noise, the music, and the strange
mixture of business and pleasure on the counte-
nances of the tbrong, all .combined to give the
place an air of enchantment that quite enraptured
the Parisians. The Prince de Carignan made
enormous profits while the delusion lasted. Each
tent was let at the rate of five hundred livres a
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 29
month; and, as there were at ]east five hundred
of them, his monthly revenue from tliis source alone
must have amounted to 250,000 livres, or upwards
of 10,0001. sterling.
The honest old soldier, Marshal Villars, was so
vexed to see the folly which had smitten his coun-
trymen, that he never could speak with temper on
the subject. Passing one day_ through· the Place
Vef!dome in his carriage, the choleric gentleman
was so annoyed at the infatuation of the people,
that he ·abruptly ordered his coachman to stop,
and, putting his head out of the carriage window,
harangued them for full half an hour on their " dis-
gusting avarice." This was not ~ very wise pro-
ceeding on his part. Hisses and shouts of laughter
resounded from eyery side, and jokes without num-
ber were aimed at him. There being at last strong
symptoms tl1at something more tangible was flying
through the air in the direction of his head, the
Marshal was glad to drive on. He never again
repeated the experiment.
Two sober, quiet, and philosophic men of letters,
M. de }a Motte and the Abbe Terrason, congratu-
lated each other, that they, at least, were free from
this strange infatuation. A few days afterwards,
as the worthy Abbe was coming out of the H6tel
de Soissons, whither he had gone to buy shares
in the Mississippi, whom should he see but his
friend La Motte entering for the same purpose.
u Ha !" said the Abbe, smiling, "is that youf"
t • h' I
80 THE MJSSlSSIPPI SCHEME.
" Yes,'' said La Motte, pushing past him as fast
as be was able ; u and can that be you?" The
next time the two scholars met, they talked of phi-
losophy, of science, and ofreligion, but neither had
courage for a long time to breathe one syllable
about the Mississippi. At last, when it was men-
tioned, they agreed that a man ought never to
swear against his .doing any one thing, and that
there was no sort of extravagance of which ~ven
a wise man was not capable.
During this time, Law, the new Plutus, had
become all at once the most important personage
of the state. The ante-chambers of the Regent
were forsaken by the courtiers. Peers, judges, and
bishops thronged to the H6tel de Soissops; officers
of the army and navy, ladies of title and fashion,
and every one to whom hereditary rank or public em-
ploy gave a claim to precedence, were to be found
waiting in his ante-chambers to beg for a portion
of his India stock. Law was so pestered that he
was unable to see one-tenth part of the applicants,
and every manreuv:re that ingenuity could suggest
was employed to gain access to him. Peers, whose
dignity would have been outraged if the Regent
had made them wait half an hour for an interview,
were content to wait six hours for the chance of
seeing Monsieur Law. Enormous fees were paid
to his servants, if they would merely announce
their names. Ladies of rank employed the blan-
dishments of their smiles for the same object ; but
\ h\ I
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 81
many of them came day after day for a fortnight
before they could obtain an audience. When Law
accepted an invitation> he was sometimes so ~or­
rounded by ladies, all asking to have their names
put down in his lists as shareholders in the new
stock, that, in spite of his well-known and habitual
gallantry, be was obliged to tear himself away par
force. The most ludicrous stratagems were em-
ployed to have an opportunity of speaking to him.
One lady, who had striven in vain during several
days, gave up in despair all attempts to see him
at his own house, but ordered her coachman to
keep·a strict watch whenever she was out in her
carriage, and if he saw Mr. Law coming, to drive
against a post, and upset her. The coachman pro-
mised obedience, and for three days the lady was
driven incessantly through the town, praying in-
wardly for the opportunity to be overturned. At
last she espied Mr. Law, and, pulling the string,
called out to the coachman, "Upset us now! for
God's sake, upset us now !" The coachman drove
against a post, the lady screamed, the eoach was
overturned, and Law, who had seen the accident,
hastened to the spot to render assistance. The
cunning dame was led into the Hotel de Soissons,
where she soon thought it advisable to recover
from her fright, and, after apologizing to Mr. Law,
confessed her stratagem.. Law smiled, and entered
the lady in his books as the purchaser of a quan-
tity of India stock. Another story is told of a
THE MfSSISSIPPl SCHEME.
Madame de Boncha, who, knowing that Mr. Law
was at dinner at a certain house, proceeded thither
in her carriage, and gave the alarm of fire. The
company started from table, and Law among the
rest; but, seeing one lady making all haste into
the house towards him, while everybody else was
scampering away, he suspected the trick, and ran
off in another direction.
Many other anecdotes are related, which even,
though they may be a little exaggerated, are never-
theless worth preserving, as showing the spirit of
that singular period.• The Regent was one day
mentioning, in the presence of D'Argenson, the
Abbe Dubois, and some other persons, that he was
desirous of deputing some lady, of the rank at
least of a Duchess, to attend upon his daughter at
Modena; "but," added he, "I do not exactly
know where to find one." "No!,. replied one, in
affected surprise ; u I can tell you where to find -
every Duchess in France.:-you have only to go
to Mr. Law's; you will see them every one in his
ante-chamber."
M. de Chirac, a celebrated physician, had bought
stock at an unlucky period, and was very anxious
to sell out. Sfock, however continued to fall for
• The curious reader may find an anecdote ofthe eagerness of
the Frenchladies to retain Law in their company, which will make
him blush or smile according as he happens to be very modest or
the reverse. It is relatedin the Letters ofMadame CharlotteEliza-
beth de Baviere, Duchess of Orleans, voUi. p. ~74.
THE MlSSTSSIPPI SCH~ME. 88
two or three days, much to his alarm. IJis mind
was filled with the subject, when he was suddenly
called upon to attend a lady, who imagined herself
unwell. He arrived, was shown up stairs, and felt
the lady's pulse. "It falls! it falls! good God I
it falls continually!" said he, musingly, while the
lady looked up in his face, all anxiety for his
opinion. "Ob! M. de Chirac," said she, starting
to her feet, and ringing the bell for assistance ; " I
am dying! I am dying t it falls! it falls I it falls!"
"What falls?" inquired the doctor, in amazement.
ct My pulse! my pulse I" said the lady; u I must
be dying." "Calm your apprehensions, my dear
Madam," said M. de Chirac; "I was speaking
of the stocks. The truth is, I have been a great
loser, and my mind is so disturbed, I hardly know
what I have been saying."
The price ofshares sometimes rose ten or twenty
per cent. in the course of a few hours, and many
persons in the humbler walks of life, who bad risen
poor in the morning, went to bed in affluence.
An extensive bolder of stock, being taken ill, sent
his servant to sell two hundred and fifty shares, at
eight thousand livres each, the price at which they
were then quoted. The servant went, and, on his
arrival in the Ja.rdin de Soissons, found that in the
interval the price had risen to ten thousand Jivres.
The difference of two thousand livres on the two
hundred and fifty shares, amounting to 500,000
livres, or 20,0001. sterling, he very coolly trans.
VOL. I. D
\ h\ I
84 THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
ferred to his own use, and, giving the remainder
to his master, set out the same evening for another
country. Law's coachman in a very short time
made money enough to set up a carriage of his
own, and requested permission to leave his service.
Law, who esteemed the man, begged of him as a
favour, that he would endeavour, before be went,
to find a substitute as good as himself. The coach-
man consented, and in the evening brought two of
his former comrades, telling Mr. Law tochoose be-
tween them, and he would take the other. Cook-
maids and footmen were now and then as lucky,
and, in the full-blown pride of their easily-ac-
quired wealth, made the most ridiculous mistakes.
Preserving the language and manners of their old,
with the finery of their new station, they afforded
continual subjects for the pity of the sensible, the
contempt of the sober, and the laughter of every-
body. But the folly and meanness of the higher
ranks of society were still more disgusting. One
instance alone, related by the Duke de St. Simon,
will show the unworthy avarice which infected the
whole of society. A man of the name of Andre,
without character or education, had, by a series
of well-timed speculations in Mississippi bonds,
gained enormous wealth, in an incredibly short
space of time. As St. Simon expresses it, " he
had amassed mountains of gold." As he became
rich, he grew ashamed of the lowness of his birth,
and anxious above all things to be allied to no-
THE MlSSISSIP.PI SCHEME. S5
bility. He had a daughter, an infant only three
yeaTs of age, and he opened a negotiation with the
aristocratic and needy family of D'Oyse, that this
child should, upon certain .conditions, marry a
member of that house. The Marquis d'Oyse, to
his shame, consented, and promised to marry her
himself on her attaining the age of twelve, ifthe
father would pay him down the sum of a hundred
thousand crowns, and twenty thousand livres every
year, until the celebration of the marriage. The
Marquis was himself in his thirty-third year. This
scandalous bargain was duly signed and sealed, the
stockjobber furthermore agreeing to settle upon
his daughter, on the marriage-day, a fortune of
several millions. The Duke of Brancas, the head
of the family, was present throughout the nego-
tiation, and shared in all the profits. St. Simon,
who treats the matter with the levity becoming
what he thought so good a joke, adds, n that people
did not spare their animadversions on this beau-
tiful marriage," and further informs us, n that the
project fell to the ground some months afterwards
by the overthrow of Law, and the ruin of the
ambitious Monsieur Andre." It would appear, how..
ever, that the noble family never had the honesty
to return the hundred thousand crowns.
Amid events like these, which, humiliating though
they be, partake largely of the ludicrous, others
occurred of a J]lore serious nature. Robberies in
the streets were ofdaily occurrence, in consequence
D~
86 THE MISSISSIPPf SCDEME.
ofthe immense sums, in paper, which people carried
about with them. Assassinations were also fre-
quent. One case in particular fixed the attention
of the whole of France, not only on account of the
enormity of the offence, but of the rank and high
counexions ofthe criminal.
The Count d'Horn, a younger brother of the
Prince d'Horn, and related to the noble families
of D'Aremberg, De Ligne, and De Montmorency,
was a young man of dissipated character, extrava-
gant to a degree, and unprincipled as he was
extravagant. In connexion with two other young
men as reckless as himself, named Mille, a Pied-
montese captain, and one Destampes, or Lestang,
a Fleming, be formed a design to rob a very rich
broker, who was known, unfortunately for himself,
to carry great sums about his person. The Count
pretended a desire to purchase of him a number
of shares in the Company of t]:le Indies, and for
that purpose appointed to meet him in a cabaret,
or low public-bouse, in the neighbourhood of the
Place Vendome. The unsuspecting broker was
punctual to his appointment ; so were the Count
d'Horn and his two associates, whom he intro-
duced as his particular friends. Aft_er a few mo-
ments• conversation, the Count d'Horn suddenly
sprang upon his victim, and stabbed him three
times in the breast -with a poniard. The man
fell heavily to the ground, and, while the Count
was employed in rifling his portfolio of bonds in
\ h\ I
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 37
the Mississippi and Indran schemes to the amount
of one hundred thousand crowns, Mille, the Pied-
montese, stabbed the unfortunate broker again and
again, to make sure of his death. But the broker
did not fall without a struggle, and his cries
brought the people of the cabaret to his assistance.
Lestang, the other assassin, who had been set to
keep watch at a staircase, sprang from a window
and escaped ; but Mille and the Count d'Hom
were seized in the very act.
This crime. committed in open day, and in so
public 8 place as 8 cabaret, filled Paris with con-
sternation. The trial of the assassins commenced
on the following day, and the evidence being so
clear, they were both found guilty and condemned
to be broken alive on the wheel. The noble rela-
tives of the Count d'Hom absolutely blocked up
the ante-chambers ofthe Regent,.praying for mercy
on the misguided youth, and alleging that he was
insane. The Regent avoided them as long as pos-
sible, being determined that, in a case so atrocious,
justice should take its course ; but the importunity
of these influential suitors was not to be overcome
so silently, and they at last forced themselves into
the presence of the Regent, and prayed him to
save their house the shame of a public execution.
They hinted that the Princes d'Horn were allied to
the illustrious family of Orleans, and added that
the Regent himself would be disgraced if a kin~
man of his should die by the hands of a common
88 THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
executioner. The Regent, to his credit, was proof
against all their solicitations, and replied to their
last argument in the words ofCorneille,-
" Le crime &it Ia honteJ et non pas l'echafaud :"
adding, that whatever shame there might be in the
punishment he would very willingly share with the
other relatives. Day after day they renewed their
entreaties, but always with the same result. At
last they thought that if they could interest the
Duke de St. Simon in their favour, a man for
whom the Regent felt sincere esteem, they might
succeed in their object. The Duke, a. thorough
aristocrat, was as shocked as they were, that a
noble assassin should die by the same death as
a plebeian felon, and represented to the Regent
the impolicy of making enemies of so numerous,
wealthy, and powerful a family. He urged, too,
that in Germany, where the family of D'Aremberg
had large possessions, it was the law, that no rela-
tive of a person broken on the wheel could succeed
to any public office or employ until a whole ge-
neration had passed away. For this reason he
thought the punishment of the guilty Count migbt
be transmuted into beheading, which was consi-
dered.all over Europe as much less infamous. The
Regent was moved by this argument, and was
about to consent, when Law, who felt peculiarly
interested in the fate of the murdered man, con-
firmed him in his former resolution, to let the
law take its couTse.
\ h\ I
THE JrlJSSISSIPPI SCHEME. 89
The relatives of D'Horn were now reduced to
the last extremity. The Prince de Robec Mont-
morency, despairing of other methods, found means
to penetrate into the dungeon of the criminal, and
offering him a cup of poison, implored him to save
them from disgrace. The Count d'Horn turned
away his head, and refused to take it. Mont-
morency pressed him once more, and losing all
patience at his continued refusal, turned on his
heel, and exclaiming, u Die, then, as thou wilt,
mean-spirited wretch! thou art fit only to perish
by the bands of the hangman !, left him to hi&
fate.
D'Hom himself petitioned the Regent that he
might be beheaded, but Law, who exercised more
influence over his mind than any other person, with
the exception of the notorious Abbe Dubois, his
tutor, insisted that he could not in justice succumb
to the self-interested views of the n•Horns. The
Regent had from the first been of the same opi-
nion, and within six days after the commission of
their crime, D•Horn and Mille were broken on
the wheel in the Place de Greve. The other
assassin, Lestang, was never apprehended.
This prompt and severe justice was highly pleas-
ing to the populace of Paris; even M. de Quin-
campoix, as they called Law, came in for a share
of their approbation for having induced the Regent
to 11how no favour to a patrician. But the number
of robberies and assassinations did not diminish.
40 THE MiSSISSIPPI SCH"EME.
No sympathy was shown for rich jobbers when they
were plundered : the general laxity of public mo.
rals, conspicuous enough before, was rendered still
more so by its rapid pervasion ofthe middle classes,
who had hitherto remained comparatively pure,
between the open vices of the class above and the
hidden crimes of the class below them. The per-
nicious love of gambling diffused 'tself through
society, and bore all public, and nearly all private,
virtue before it.
For a time, while confidence lasted, an impetus
was given to trade, which could not fail to be bene.
ficial. In Paris, especially, the good results were
felt. Strangers flocked into the capital from every
part, bent, not only upon making money,· but on
spending it. The Duchess of Orleans, mother of
the Regent, computes the increase of the popula-
tion during this time., from the great influx of
strangers from all parts of the world, at 805,000
souls. The housekeepers were obliged to make
up beds in garrets, kitchens, and even stables,
for the accommodation of lodgers ; and the town
was so full of carriages and vehicles of every de-
scription, that they were obliged in the principal
streets to drive at a foot-pace for fear of accidents.
The looms of the country worked with unusual
activity, to supply rich laces, silks, broad-cloth,
and velvets, which being paid for in abundant pa-
per, increased in price four.fold. Provisions shared
the general advance; bread, meat, and vegetables
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 41
were sold at prices greater than had ever before
been known; while the wages of labour rose in
exactly the same proportion. The artisan, who
formerly gained fifteen sous per diem, now gained
si.xty. New houses were built in every direction;
an illusory prosperity shone over the land, and
so dazzled the eyes of the whole nation that none
could see the dark cloud on the horizon, announ-
cing the storm that was too rapidly approaching.
Law himself, the magician whose wand had
wrought so surprising a change, shared, of course,
in the general prosperity. His wife and daughter
were courted by the highest nobility, and their
alliance sought by the heirs of ducal and princely
houses. . He bought two splendid estates in dif·
ferent parts of France, and entered into a negotia-
tion with the family of the Duke de Sully for the
purchase of the Marquisate of Rosny. His reli-
gion being an obstacle to his advancement, the
Regent promised, if he would publicly conform to
the Catholic faith, to make him comptroller-gene-
ral of the finances. Law, who had no more real
religion than any other professed gambler, readily
agreed, and was confimied by the Abbe de Tencin
in the cathedral of Melun, in presence of a great
crowd of spectators.• On the following day he
•
• The following squib was circulated on the occasion :-
« Foin de ton zele seraphique,
Malheureux Abbe de Tencin,
Depuia que Law eat Catholique,
Tout le royawne est Capucin !"
4i THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
was elected honorary churchwarden of the parish
of St. Roch, upon which occasion he made it a
present of the sum of five hundred thousand livres.
His charities, always magnificent, were not always
so ostentatious. He gave away great sums pri-
vately, and no tale of real distress ever reached
his ears in vain.
At this time, he was by far the most influential
person of the state. The Duke of Orleans had
so much confidence in his sagacity, and the success
of his plans, that he always consulted him upon
every matter of moment. He was by no means
unduly elevated by his prosperity, but remained
the same simple, affable, sensible man that he
had shown himself in adversity. His gallantry,
which was always delightful to the fair objects
of it, was of a nature, so kind, so gentlemanly,
and so respectful, that not even a lover could
have taken offence at it. If upon any occasion
be showed any symptoms of haughtiness, it was
to the cringing nobles, who lavished their adula-
tion upon him till it became fulsome. He often
took pleasure in seeing how long he could make
them dance attendance upon him for a single fa-
vour. To such of his own countrymen as by
Thus, somewhat weakly and paraphrastically rendered by J u.stan-
eond, in his translation of the "Mell\oira ofLouis XV:"-
" Tencin, a curee on thy .aeraphic zeal,
Which by persuaeion hath contrived the meane
To make the Scotchman at our altar& kneel,
Since which we all are poor aa Capucinee !"
\ h\ I
THE l'dlSSISSIPPI SCHEME.
chance visited Paris, and sought an interview with
him, he was, on the contrary, all politeness and
attention. When Archibald Campbell, Earl of Is-
lay, and afterwards Duke of Argyle, called upon
him in the Place Vend6me, be had to pass through
an ante-chamber crowded with persons of the first
distinction, all anxious to see the great financier,
and have their names put down as first on the
list of some new subscription. Law himself was
quietly sitting in his library, writing a letter to
the gardener at his paternal estate of Lauriston
about the planting of some cabbages ! The Earl
stayed for a considerable time, played a game of
piquet with his countryman, and left him, charmed
with his ease, good sense, and good breeding.
Among the nobles who, by means of the public
credulity at this time, gained sums sufficient to re-
pair their ruined fortunes, may be mentioned the
names of the Dukes de Bourbon, de Guiche, de
Ia Force,• de Chaulnes, and d'Antin; the Ma..
rechal d'Estrees, the Princes de Rohan, de Poix,
and de Leon. The Duke de Bourbon, son ofLouis
XIV. by Madame de Montespan, was peculiarly
fortunate in his speculations in Mississippi paper.
• The Duke de la Force gained considerable sums, not only by
jobbing in the stocks, but in dealing in porcelain, spices, &c. It
was debated for a length oftime in the Parliament of Paris whether
he had not, in his quality of spice-merchant, forfeited his rank in
the ~ It was decided in the negative. A caricature of him
was made, dressed as a str.eet porter, carrying a large bale ofapices
on his back, with the inscription, " Admirez LA FoooB."
44 THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
He rebuilt the royal residence of Chantilly in a
style ofunwonted magnificence, and, being passion-
ately fond of horses, he erected a range of stables,
which were long renowned throughout Europe, and
imported a hundred and fifty of the finest racers
from England, to improve the breed in France.
He bought a large extent of country in Picardy,
and became possessed of nearly all the valuable
lands lying between the Oise and the Somme.
When fortunes such as these were gained, it is
no wonder that Law should have been almost wor-
shipped by the mercurial population. Never was
monarch more flattered than he was. All the small
poets and litterateurs of the day poured floods of
adulation upon him. According to them he was
the saviour of the country, the tutelary divinity of
France ; wit was in aJI his words, goodness in all his
looks, and wisdom in all his actions. So great a
crowdfollowed his carriage whenever hewent abroad,
that the Regent sent him a troop of horse as his
permanent escort, to clear the streets before him.
It was remarked at this time, that Paris bad
never before been so full of objects of elegance and
luxury. Statues, pictures, and tapestries were im-
ported in great quantities from foreign countries,
and found a ready market. All those pretty trifles
in the way of furniture and ornament which the
French excel in manufacturing, were no longer
the exclusive pl~y-things of the aristocracy, but
were to be found in abundance in the houses of
THE MISSISSlPPl SCHEME; 45
traders and the middle classes in general. Jew-
ellery of the most costly description was brought
to Paris as the most favourable mart. Among the
rest, the famous diamond, bought by the Regent,
and called by his name, and which long adorned
the crown of France. It was purchased for the
sum of two millions of livres, under circumstances
which show that the Regent was not so great a
gainer as some of his subjects, by the impetus
which trade had received. When the diamond was
first offered to him, he refused to buy it, although
he desired, above all things, to possess it, alleging
as his reason, that his duty to the country he go-
verned would not allow him to spend so large a
sum of the public money for a mere jewel. This
valid and honourable excuse threw all the ladies of
the- court into alarm, and nothing was h«!ard for
some days but expressions of regret, that so rare
a gem should be allowed to go out of France ; no
private individual being rich enough to buy it.
The Regent was continually importuned about it;
but all in vain, until the Duke de St. Simon, who,
with all his ability, was something of a twaddler,
undertook the weighty business. His entreaties,
being seconded by Law, the good-natured Regent
gave his consent, leaving to Law's ingenuity to find
the means to pay for it. The owner took security
for the payment of the sum of two millions of
livres within a stated period, receiving, in the
mean time, the interest of five per cent. upon that
46 THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
amount, and being allowed, besides, all the valu-
able clippings of the gem. St. Simon, in his
Memoirs, relates, with no little complacency, his
share in this transaction. After describing the
diamond to be as large as a greengage, of a form
nearly round, perfectly white, and without fiaw,
and weighing more than five hundred grains, he
concludes with a chuckle, by telling the world,
,, that he takes great credit to himself for having
induced the Regent to make so illustrious a pur-
chase." In other words, he was proud that he bad
induced 'him to sacrifice his duty, and buy a bauble
for himself, at an extravagant price, out of the
public money.
Thus the system continued to fiourish till the
commencement of the year 1720. The warnings
of the .Parliament, that too great a creation of
paper money would, sooner or later, bring the
country to bankruptcy, were disregarded. The
Regent, who knew nothing whatever of the phi-
losophy of finance, thought that a system which
had produced such good effects could never be
carried to excess. If five hundred millions of paper
had been of such advantage, five hundred millions
additional would be of still greater advantage.
This was the grand error of the Regent, and which
Law did not attempt to dispel. The extraordinary
avidity of the people kept up the delusion ; and the
higher the price ofIndian and Mississippi stock, the
more billets de banque were issued to keep pace with
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 417
it. The edifice thus reared might not unaptly be
compared to the gorgeous palaceerected by Potem-
kin, that princely barbarian of Russia, to surprise
and please his imperial mistress :. huge blocks of
ice were piled one upon another ; ionic pillars, of
chastest workmanship, in ice, formed a noble por-
tico ; and a dome, of the same material, shone in
the sun, which had just strength enough to gild,
but not to melt it. It glittered afar, like a palace
of crystals and diamonds ; but there came one
warm breeze from the south, and the stately build-
ing dissolved away, till none were able even to
gather up the fragments. So with Law and his
paper system. No sooner did the breath of popu-
lar mistrust blow steadily upon it, than it fell to
ruins, and none could raise it up again.
The first slight alarm that was occasioned was
early in 1720. The Prince de Conti, offended that
Law should have denied him fresh shares in India
stock, at his own price, sent to his bank to demand
payment in specie of so enormous a quantity of
notes, that three waggons were required for its
transport. Law complained to the Regent, and
urged on his attention the mischief that would be
done, if such an example found many imitators.
The Regent was but too well aware of it, and,
sending for the Prince de Conti, ordered him,
under penalty of his high displeasure, to refund to
the Bank two-thirds of the specie which he had
withdrawn from it. The Prince was forced to obey
48 THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
the despotic mandate. Happily for Law's credit,
De Conti was an unpopular man : everybody con-
demned his meanness and cupidity, and agreed that
Law had been hardly treated. It is strange, how-
ever, that so narrow an escape should not have
made both Law and the Regent more anxious to
restrict their issues. Others were soon found who
imitated, from motives of distrust, the example
which had been set by De Conti in revenge. The
more acute stockjobbers imagined justly that prices
could not continue to rise for ever. Bourdon and
La Richardiere, renowned for their extensive ope-
rations in the funds, quietly and in small quantities
at a time, converted their notes into specie, and
sent it away to foreign countries. They also
bought as much as they could conveniently carry
of plate and expensive jewel~ry, and sent it se-
cretly away to England or to Holland. Vermalet,
a jobber, who sniffed the coming storm, procured
gold and silver coin to the amount of nearly a mil-
lion of livres, which he packed in a farmer~s cart,
and covered over with hay and cow-dung. He then
disguised himself in the dirty smock-frock, or blouse,
of a peasant, and drove his precious load in safety
into Belgium. From thence he soon found means
to transport it to Amsterdam.
Hitherto no difficulty had been experienced by any
class in procuring specie for their wants. But this
system could not long be carried on without causing
a scarcity. The voice of complaint was heard on
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 49
every side, and inquiries being instituted, the cause
was soon discovered. The council debated long on
the remedies to be ta\en, and Law, being called
on for his advice, was of opinion, that an edict
should be published, depreciating the value of coin
five per cent. below that of paper. The edict was
published accordingly; but, failing of its intended
effect, was followed by another, in which the de-
preciation was increased to ten per cent. The
payments of the bank were at the same time re-
stricted to one hundred livres in gold, and ten in
silver. All these measures were nugatory to restore
confidence in the paper, though the restriction of
cash payments within limits so extremely narrow
kept up the credit of the Bank.
Notwithstanding every effort to the contrary, the
precious metals continued to be conveyed to Eng-
land and Holland. The little coin that was left
in the country was carefully treasured, or hidden
until the scarcity became so great, that the opera-
tions of trade could no longer be carried on. In
this emergency, Law bazarded the bold experiment
of forbidding the use of specie altogether. In
February 1720 an edict was published, which, in-
stead of restoring the credit of the paper, as was
intended, destroyed it irrecoverably, and drove the
country to the very brink of revolution. By this
famous edict it was forbidden to any person what-
ever to have more than five hundred livres (20/.)
of coin in his possession, under pain of a heavy
VOL. I. E
50 ·THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
fine, and confiscation of the sums found. It was
also forbidden to buy up jewellery, plate, and
precious stones, and informers were encouraged
to make search for offenders, by the promise of
one-half the amount they might discover. The
whole country sent up a cry of distress at this
unheard-of tyranny. The most odious persecu-
tion daily took place. The privacy of families
was violated by the intrusion of informers and
their agents. The most virtuous and honest were
denounced for the crime of _having been seen
with a louis d'or in their possession. Servants
betrayed their masters, one citizen became a spy
upon his. neighbour, and arrests and confiscations
so multiplied, that the courts found a difficulty in
getting through the immense increase of business
thus occasioned. It was sufficient for an informer
to say that he suspected any person of concealing
money in his house, and immediately a search-
warrant was granted. Lord Stair, the English
ambassador, said, that it was now impossible to
doubt of the sincerity of Law's conversion to the
Catholic religion ; he had established the i1Ujuisi-
tion, after having given abundant evidence of his
faith in transubstantiation, by turning so much gold
into paper.
Every epithet that popular hatred could suggest
was showered upon the Regent and the unhappy
Law. Coin, to any amount above five hundred
livres, was an illegal tender, and nobody would
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 51
take paper if he could help it. No one knew
to·day what his notes would be worth to-morrow.
u Never," says Duclos, in his Secret Memoirs of
the Regency, ." was seen a more capricious go-
vernment- never was a more frantic tyranny exer~
cised by hands less firm. It is inconceivable to
those who were witnesses of the horrors of those
times, and who look back upon them now as on
a dream, that a sudden revolution did not break
out-that Law and the Regent did not perish
by a tragical death. They were both held in
horror, but the people confined themselves to com-
plaints; a sombre and timid despair, a stupid con-
sternation, had seized upon all, and men's minds
were too vile even to be capable of ·a courageous
crime." It would appear that, at one time, a
movement of the people was organised. Seditious
writings were posted up against the walls, and
were sent, in hand·bills, to the houses of the most
conspicuous people. One of them, given in the
" Memoires de la Regencet was to the following
effect:-" Sir and Madam,-This is to give you
notice that a St. Bartholomew's Day will be enacted
again on Saturday and Sunday, if affairs do not
alter. You are desired not to stir out, nor you,
nor your servants. God preserve you from the
flames ! Give notice to your neighbours. Dated Sa~
turday, May 25th, 1720." The immense number of
spies with which the city was infested rendered tht!
people mistrustful of one another, and beyond some
E 2
52 THE MlSSISSIPPI SCHEME.
trifling disturbances made in the evening by an
insignificant group, which was soon dispersed, the
peace ofthe capital was not compromised.
The value of shares in the Louisiana, or Mis-
sissippi stock, had fallen very rapidly, and few
indeed were found to believe the tales that bad
once been told of the immense wealth of that
regton. A last effort wa$ therefore tried to restore
the public confidence in the Mississippi project.
For this purpose, a general conscription of all
the poor wretches in Paris was made by order of
government. Upwards of six thousand of the very
refuse of the population were impressed, as if in
time of war, and were provided with clothes and
tools to be embarked for New Orleans, to work
in the gold mines alleged to abound there. They
were paraded day after day through the streets
with their pikes and shovels, and then sent off in
small detachments to the out-ports to be shipped
for America. Two-thirds of them never reached
their destination1 but dispersed themselves over
the country, sold their tools for .what they could
get1 and .returned to their old course of life. In
less than three weeks afterwards, one-half of them
were to be found again in Paris. The manoouvre,
however, caused a trifling advance in Mississippi
stock. Many persons of superabundant gullibility
believed ·that operations had begun in earnest in
the new Golconda, and that gold and silver ingots
would again be found in France.
.
n '1
I
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 53
In a constitutional monarchy some surer means
would have been found for the restoration of public
credit. In England, at a subsequent period, when
a similar delusion had brought on similar distress,
how different were the measures taken to repair
the evil ; but in France, unfortunately, the remedy
was left to the authors of the mischief. The ar-
bitrary will of the Regent, which endeavoured to
extricate the country, only plunged it deeper into·
the mire. All payments were ordered to be made
in paper, and between the 1st of February and the
end of May, notes were fabricated to the amount of
upwards of 1500 millions of livres, or 60,000,000/.
sterling. But the alarm once sounded, no art could
make the people feel the slightest confidence in
paper which was not exchangeable into metal. M.
Lambert, the President of the Parliament of Paris,
told the Regent to his face that he would rather ha.ve
a hundred thousand livres in gold or silver than
five millions in the notes of his bank. When such
was the general feeling" the superabundant issues
of paper but increased the evil., by rendering still
more enormous the disparity between the amount
of specie and notes in ·circulation. Coin, which
it was the object of the Regent to depreciate,
rose in value on every fresh attempt to diminish
it. In February, it was judged advisable that the
Royal Bank should be incorporated with the Com-
pany of the Indies. An edict to that effect was
published and registered by the Parliament. The
54t THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
state remained the guarantee for the notes of
the bank, and no more were to be issued without
an order in council. All the profits of the bank,
since the time it had been taken out of Law's
bands and made a national institution, were given
over by the Regent to the Company of the Indies.
This measure had the effect of raising for a short
time the value of the Louisiana and other shares
of the company, but it failed in placing public
credit on any permanent basis.
A council of state was held in the beginning of
May, at which Law, D'Argenson (his colleague in
the administration of the finances), and all the mi-
nisters were present. It was then computed that
the total amount of notes in circulation was 2600
millions of livres, whHe the coin in the country
was not quite equal to half that amount. It was
evident to the majority of the council that some
plan must. be adopted to equalise the currency.
Some proposed that the notes should be reduced
to the value of the specie, while others proposed
that the nominal value of the specie should be
raised till it was on an equality with the paper. Law
is said to have opposed both these projects, but
failing in suggesting any other, it was agreed that
the notes should be depreciated one-half. On the
21st of May, an edict was accordingly issued, by
which it was decreed that the shares of the Com-
pany of the Indies, and the notes of the bank,
should gradually diminish in value, till at the end
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 55
of a year they should only pass current for one-
half of their nominal worth. The Parliament re-
fused to register the edict-the gre~test outcry was
excited, and the state of the country became so
alarming, that, as the only means of preserving
tranquillity, the council of the regency was obliged
to stultify its own proceedings, by publishing within
seven days another edict, restoring the notes to
their original value.
On the same day (the 27th of May) the bank
stoppe.d paymeQt in specie. Law and D'Argenson
were both dismissed from the ministry. The weak,
vaciJlating, and cowardly Regent threw the blame
of all the mischief upon Law, who, upon present-
ing himself at the Palais Royal, was refpsed a~mit­
ance. 1\.t nightfall, however, be was sent for, and
admitted into the palace by a secret door,• when
the Regent endeavoured to console him, and made
all manner of excuses for the severity with which
in public be h11d been compelled to treat him.
So capricious Wtls hi~ conduct, that, two days after-
wards, he took .him publicly to t.he opera, where
he sat in tbe royal box, alongside of the Regent,
who treated him with marked coqsideration in face
of all the people. But such w.as the hatred against
L3w that the experiment had well nigh proved
fatal to him. The mob assailed his carriage with
~tones just as he was entering his own door; and
if the coachman had not made a sudden jerk into
.
• Duclos, Memoires Secrets de Ia Regence.
56 THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
the court-yard, and the domestics closed the gate
immediately, he would, in all probability, have
been dragged out and torn to pieces. On the
fo1lowing day, his wife and daughter were also
assailed by the mob as they were returning in
their carriage from the races. When the Regent
was informed of these occurrences he sent Law
a strong detachment of Swiss guards, who were
stationed night and day in the court of his resi-
dence. The public indignation at last increased
so much, that Law, finding his own house, even
with this guard, insecure, took refuge in the Palais
Royal, in the apartments of the Regent.
The Chancellor, D'Aguesseau, who had been
dismissed in 1718 for his opposition to the pro-
jects of Law, was now recalled to aid in the
restoration of credit. The Regent acknowledged
too late, that he had treated with unjustifiable
harshness and mistrust one of the ablest, and per-
haps the sole honest public man of that corrupt
period. He had retired ever since his disgrace
to his country-house at Fresnes, where, in the
midst of severe but delightful philosophic studies,
he had forgotten the intrigues of an unworthy
court. Law himself, and the Chevalier de Con-
Hans, a gentleman of the Regent's household,
were despatched in a post-chaise, with orders to
bring the ex-chancellor to Paris along with them.
D'Aguesseau consented to render what assistance
he could, contrary to the advice of his friends,
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. ~1
who did not approve that he should accept any
recall to office of which Law was the bearer. On
his arrival in Paris, five counsellors of the Parlia.:
ment were admitted to confer with the Commis.'
sary of Finance, and on the 1st of June an order
was published, ·abolishing the law which made it
criminal to amass coin to the amount of more
than five hundred livres. Every one was permit-
ted to have as much specie as he pleased. In
order that the bank-notes might he withdrawn,
twenty-five millions of new notes were created,
on the security of the revenues of the city of
Paris, at two-and-:a--half per cent. The bank-notes
withdrawn were publicly burned in front of the
H6tel de Ville. The new notes were principally
of the value of ten livre& each; and on the lOth
of June the bank was re-opened, with a sufficiency
of silver coin to give in change for them.
These measures were productive of considerable
advantage. All the population of Paris hastened
to the bank, to get coin for their small notes ; and
silver becoming scarce, they were paid in copper.
Very few complained that this was too heavy, al-
though poor fellows might be continually seen toil-
ing and sweating along the streets, laden with more
than they could comfortably carry, in the shape of
change for fifty livres. The crowds around the
bank were so great, that hardly a day passed that
some one was not pressed to death. On the 9th
of July, the multitude was so dense and clamorous
58 THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
that the guards stationed at the entrance 'of the
Mazarin Gardens closed the gate, and refused to
admit any .more. The crowd became incensed,
and flung stones through the railings upon the
soldiers. The latter, ince-psed in their turn, threat-
ened ~o fire upon the people. At that instant one
of them was hit by a stone, and, taking up his
piece, he fired into the crowd. One lD.Bn fell d~ad
immediately, and another was severely wound~d.
It was every instant expected that a general attack
would have been commenced upon the bank ; but
the gates of the Mazarin Gardens being opened to
the crowd, who saw a whole troop of soldiers, with
their bayonets fixed, ready to receive them, they
contented th~mselves by giving vent to their indig-
nation in groan$ and hisses.
Eight days af~erwards the concour11e of people
was so tremendous, that fifteen persons were
squeezed to death at the doors of the bank. The
people were so indignant that they took three
of the bodies on stretchers before them, and pro-
ceeded, to the number of seven or eight thou-
i8.od, to the gardens of the Palais Royal, that they
might show the Regent the misfortunes that he
and Law had brought upon the country. Law's
coachman, who was sitting on the box of his mas-
ter's carriage, in the court-yard of the palace,
happened to have more zeal than discretion, and,
not liking that the mob should abuse his master,
he said, loud enough to be overheard by several
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 59
persons, that they were all blackguards, and de-
served to be banged. The mob immediately set
upon him, and, thinking that Law was in the
carriage, broke it to pieces. The imprudent coach-
man narrowly escaped with his life. No further
mischief was done ; a body of troops making their
appearance, the crowd quietly dispersed, after an
assurance bad been given by the Regent that the
three bodies they had brought to show him should
be decently buried at his own expense. The Par-
liament was sitting at the time of this uproar, and
the President took upon himself to go out and see
what was the matter. On his return he informed
the councillors, that Law's carriage had been broken
by the mob. All the members rose simultaneously,
and expressed their joy by a loud shout, while one
man, more zealous in his hatred than the rest, ex-
claimed, "And Law himaeif, uhe torn to pieces?''•
. Much undoubtedly depended on the credit of
the Company of the Indies, which was answer-
able for so great a sum to the nation. It was,
therefore, suggested in the council pf the minis-
try, that any privileges which could be granted to
• The Duchess of Orleans gives a different version ofthis story;
but whichever be the true one, the manifestation of such feeling in
a legislative assembly was not very creditable. She says; that the
President was 9() transported with joy~ that be was seized with a
rhyming fit, and, returning into the 'hall, exclaimed to the mem-
be.rs :-
"MeuU!urs! Murieur&! bonne twttr~elle !
Le car'l'088e de !AU ut rtuluit en ca11.elle !"
60 TilE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME:
enable it to fulfil its engagements, would be pro-
ductive of the best results. With this end in
view, it was proposed that the exclusive privi-
lege of all maritime commerce should be secured
to it, and an edict to that effect was published.
But it was unfortunately forgotten that by such
a measure all the merchants of the country would
be ruined. The idea of such an immense privilege
was generally scouted by the nation, and petition
on petition was presented to the Parliament, that
they would refuse to register the decree. They
refused accordingly, and the Regent, remarking
that they did nothing but fan the flame of sedi-
tion, exiled them to Blois. At the interee.ssion of
D'Aguesseau, the place of banishment was changed
to Pontoise, and thither accordingly the councillors
repaired, determined to set the Regent at defiance.
They made every arrangement for rendering their
temporary exile as agreeable as possible. The
President gave the most elegant suppers, to which
he invited all the gayest and wittiest company of
Paris. Every night there was a concert and ball
for the ladies. The usually grave and solemn
judges and councillors joined in cards and other
diversions, leading for several weeks a life of the
most extravagant pleasure, for no other purpose
than to show the Regent of how little consequence
they deemed their banishment, and that when they
willed it, they could make Pont~se a pleasanter
residence than Paris.
'l'liE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 61
Of all the nations in the world the French are
the most renowned for singing over their griev-
ances. Of that country it bas been remarked with
some truth, that its whole history may be traced
in its songs. When Law, by the utter failure of
his best-laid plans, rendered himself obnoxious,
satire of course seized hold upon him, and, while
caricatures of his person appeared in all the shops,
the streets resounded with songs, in which neither
he nor the Regent was spared. Many of these
songs were far from decent ; and one of them in
particular counselled the application ofall his notes
to the most ignoble use· to which paper can he
applied. But the followiug~ preserved in the let-
ters of the Duchess of Orleans, was the best and the
most popular, and was to be heard for months in
all the carrefoura of Paris. Tbe application of the
chorus is happyenough :-
Aussitot que Lass arriva
Dans notre bonne ville,
Monsieur le Regent publia
Que Lass serait utile
Pour retablir la nation.
La farid0'1ldaine! lafaridondon.
Mais il nous a tous enrichi,
Birihi I
A Ia fafOn de Barha;ri,
Mon ami!
Oe parpaillot, pour attirer
Tout l'argent de Ja France,
Songea d'abord as'assurer
De notre confiance.
62 TliE MISSISSIPPI SCllEME.
n fit son abjuration.
Lafaridondair,te ! lafarid&ndon !
Maisie fourbe s'est oonverti,
Birihi I
A Ia f«-fon de Barbari,
Man ami !
Lass, le fils ain~ de Satan
Nons met tous 1\ l'awnooe,
n nous a pris tout notre argent
Et n'en rend apersonne.
Mais le Regent, humain et bon,
Laftwldondaine! lafa;-idfmtum!
Nous rendra ce qu'on nous a pris,
Bit·ibi I
A la fa9on de Bar/tari,
· Mon ami!
The following smart epigram JS of the same
date:-
Lundi, j'achetai des actions ;
Mardi, je gagnai des millions ;
Mercredi, j'ammgeai mon menage,
Jeudi, je pria un equipage,
Vendredi1 je m'en fus au bal,
Et Samedi, a l'Hopital.
Among the caricatures that were abundantly
published, and that showed as plainly as graver
matteTs, that the nation had awakened to a sense
of its folly, was one, a fac-simile of which is pre-
served in the "Memoires de la Regence." It was
thus described by its author : u The 4
Goddess of
Shares,' in her triumphal car, driven by the God-
dess of Folly. Those who are drawipg the car are
impersonations of the Mississippi, with his wooden
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME: 68
leg, the South Sea, the Bank ofEngland, the Com-
pany of the West of Senegal, and of various as-
surances. Lest the car should not roll fast enough,
the agents of these companies, known by their
long fox-tails and their cunning looks, turn round
the spokes of the wheels, upon which are ~arked
the names of the several stocks, and their value,
sometimes high and sometimes low, according to
the turns of the wheel. Upon the ground are the
merchandise, day-books and ledgers of legitimate
commerce, crushed under the chariot of Folly.
Behind is an immense crowd of persons, of all ages,
sexes, and conditions, clamoring after Fortune, and
fighting with each other to get a portion of the
shares which she distributes so bountifully among
them. In the clouds sits a demon, blowing bubbles
of soap, which are also the objects of the admira-
tion and cupidity of the crowd, who jump upon
one another's backs to reach them ere they burst.
Right in the pathway of the car, and blocking up
the passage, stands a large building, with three
doors, through one of which it must pass, if it pro-
ceeds further, and all the crowd along with it. Ovet
the first door are the words_, u H6pital des Four,~
over the second, "Hlpital des Malades,•• and over
the third, "H6pital des Gueu.1·." Another carica-
ture represented Law sitting in a large cauldron,
boiling over the flames of popular madness, sur-
rounded by an impetuous multitude, who were
pouring all their gold and silver into it, and re-
64. 'TilE MISSISSIPPl SCHEME.
ceiving gladly in exchange the bits of paper which
he distributed among them by handsfu1l.
While this excitement lasted, Law took good
care not to expose himself unguarded in the streets.
Shut up in the apartments of the Regent, he was
secure from all attack, and, whenever he ventured
abroad, it was either incognito, or in one of the
Royal carriages, with a powerful escort. An amus-
ing anecdote is recorded of the detestation in
which he was held by the people, and the ill treat·
ment he would have met, had he fallen into their
hands. A gentleman, of the name of Bourse], was
passing in his carriage down the Rue St. Antoine,
when his further progress was stayed by a hackney-
coach that bad blocked up the road. M. Bour-
sel's servant called impatiently to the hackney-
coachman to get out of the way, and, on his
refusal, struck him a blow on the face. A crowd
was soon drawn together by the disturbance, and
M. Bourse! got out of the carriage to restore or-
der.. The hackney-coachman, imagining that he
had now another assailant, bethought him of an
expedient to rid himself of both, and called out as
loudly as he was able, '' Help! help I murder!
murder! Here are Law and his servant going to
kill me I Help! help I" At this cry, the peo-
ple came out of their shops, armed with sticks
and other weapons, while the mob gathered
stones to inflict summary vengeance upon the sup-
posed financier. Happily for M. Bourse} and his
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 65
servant, the door of the church of the Jesuits
stood wide open, and, seeing the fearful odds
against them, they rushed towards it with all speed.
They reached the altar, pursued by the people,
and would have been ill treated even there, if, find-
ing the door open leading to the sacristy, they
had not sprang through, and closed it after them.
The mob were then persuaded to leave the church
by the alarmed and indignant priests; and, find-
ing M. Boursel's carriage sti11 in the streets, they
vented their ill-will against it, and did it con-
siderable damage.
The twenty-five millions secured on the muni-
cipal revenues of the city of Paris, bearing so low
an interest as two and a half per cent., wel'e not
very popular among the large holders ofMississippi
stock. The conversion of the securities was, there-
fore, a work of considerable difficulty; for many
preferred to retain the falling paper of Law's Com-
pany, in the hope that a favourable turn might
take place. On the 15th of August, with a view
to hasten the conversion, an edict was passed, de-
daring that all notes for sums between one thou-
sand and ten thousand livres, should not pass
current, except for the purchase of annuities and
bank accounts, or for the payment of instalments
still due on the shares ofthe company.
In October following another edict was passed,
.depriving these notes of all value whatever after
the month of November next ensuing. The ma-
YOL. I. p
66 THE MISSISSIPPI SCIIEME.
nagement of the mint, the farming of the revenue,
and all the other advantagea and privileges of the
India, or Mississippi Company, were taken from
them, and they were reduced to a mere private
company. This was the deathblow to the whole
system, which had now got into the hands of its
enemies. Law had lost all influence in the Council
of Finance, and the company, being despoiled of
its immunities, could no longer hold out the sha-
dow of a prospect of being able to fulfil its engage-
ments. All those suspected of illegal profits at the
time the public delusion was at its height, were
sought out and amerced in heavy fines. It was
previously ordered that a list of the original pro-
prietors should be made out, and that such persons
as still retained their shares should place them
in deposit with the company, and that those who
had neglected to complete the shares for which
they had put down their names, should now pur-
chase them of the company, a,
t the rate of 13,500
livres for each share of 500 livres. Rather than
submit to pay this enormous sum for stock which
was actually at a discount, the shareholders packed
up all their portable effects, and endeavoured to
find a refuge in foreign countries. Orders were
immediately issued to the authorities at the ports
and frontiers, to apprehend all travellers who
sought to leave the kingdom, and keep them in
custody, until it was ascertained whether they bad
any plate or jewellery with them, or were con~
TilE MISSISSIPPI SCHE~E. 67
cerned in the late stock-jobbing. Against such
few as escaped, the punishment of death was re--
corded, while the most arbitrary proceedings were
instituted against those who remained.
Law himself, in a moment of despair, deter-
mined to leave a country where his life was no
longer secure. He at first only demanded per-
mission to retire from Paris to one of his country-
aeats; a permission which the Regent cheerfully
granted. The latter was much affected at the
unhappy turn afFairs had taken, but his faith con-
tinued unmoved in the truth and efficacy of Law's
financial system. His eyes were opened to his
own errors, and during the few remaining years
of his life, he constantly longed for an opportunity
of again establishing the system upon a securer
basis. At Law's last interview with the Prince, he
is reported to have said _u I confess that I have
committed many faults ; I committed them because
I am a roan, and all men are liable to error ; but
I declare to you most solemnly that none of them
proceeded from wicked or dishonest motives, and
that nothing of the kind will be found in the whole
course of my conduct."
Two or three days after his departure the Re-
gent sent him a very kind letter, permitting him
to leave the kingdom whenever he pleased, and
stating that he had ordered his passports to be
made ready. lie at the same time ofFered him
any sum of money he might requir~. Law respect-
F2
68 THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
fully declined the money, and set out for Brussels
in a postchaise belonging to Madame de Prie, the
mistress of the Duke of Bourbon, escorted by six
horse-guards. From thence he proceeded to Ve-
nice, where he remained for some months, the ob-
ject of the greatest curiosity to the people, who be-
lieved him to be the possessor of enormous wealth.
No opinion, however, could be more erroneous.
Witb more generosity than could have been ex-
pected from a man who during the greatest part
of his life had been a professed gambler, be had
refused to enrich himself at the expense of a ruined
nation. During the height of the popular frenzy
for Mississippi stock, he had never doubted of the
final success of his projects, in making France
the richest and most powerful nation of Europe.
He invested all his gains in the purchase of landed
property in France- a sure proof of his own belief
in the stability of his schemes. He had hoarded
no plate or jewellery, and sent no money, like the
dishonest jobbers, to foreign countries. His all,
with the exception of one diamond, worth about
five or six thousand pounds sterling, was invested
in the French soil ; and when he left that ·country,
he left it almost a beggar. This fact alone ought
to rescue his memory from the charge of knavery,
so often and so unjustly brought against him.
As soon as his departure was known, all his
estates and his valuable library were confiscated.
Ampng the rest, an annuity of 200,000 livres,
TilE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
(8000/. sterling,) on the lives of his wife and chil-
dren, which had been purchased for five millions
of livres, was forfeited, notwithstanding that a
special edict, drawn up for the purpose in the
days of his prosperity, bad expressly declared that
it should never be confiscated for any cause what-
ever. Great discontent existed among the people
that Law had been suffered to escape. The mob
and the Parliament would have been pleased to
have seen him hanged. The few who had not
suffered by the commercial revolution, rejoiced that
the quack had left the country; but all those (and
they were by far the most numerous class) whose
fortunes were implicated, regretted that his inti-
mate knowledge of the distress of the country, and
of the causes that had led to it, ·had not been
rendered more available in discovering a remedy.
At a meeting of the Council of Finance, and
the general council of the Regency, documents
were laid upon the table, from which it appeared
that the amount of notes in circulation was 2700
millions. The Regent was called upon to explain
how it happened that there was a discrepancy
between·the dates at which·these issues were made,
and those of the edicts by which they were au-
thorised. He might have safely taken the whole
blame upon himself, but be .preferred that an ab-
sent man should bear a share of it, and he there-
fore stated that Law, upon his own authority, had
issued 1200 millions of notes at different times..
70 THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
and that he (the Regent) seeing that the thing
had been irrevocably done, had screened Law, by
antedating the decrees of the council, which au-
thorised the augmentation. It would have been
more to.his credit if be had told the whole truth
while be was about it, and acknowledged that it
was mainly through his extravagance and impa-
tience that Law bad been induced to overstep the
bounds of safe speculation. It was also ascertained
that the national debt, on the 1st ofJanuary, 17fal,
amounted to upwards of 8100 millions of livres, or
more than 124,000,0001. sterling, the interest upon
which was 8,196,0001. A commission, o~ visa, was
forthwith appointed to examine into all the secu-
rities of the state creditors, who were to be divided
into five classes, the first four comprising those
who bad purchased their securities with real effects,
and the latter comprising those who could give
no proofs that the transactions they bad entered
into were real and bond fide. The securities of
the latter were ordered to be destroyed, while
those of the first four classes were subjected to
a most rigid and jealeu1s sCl'utiny. The result
of the labours of the visa was a report, in which
they counselled the reduction of the interest upon
these securities to fifty-six millions of livres. They
justified this advice by a statement of the various
acts ofpeculation and extortion which they bad dis-
covered, and an edict to that effect was accordingly
published and duly registered by the parliaments
of the kingdom.
THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME. 71
Another tribunal was afterwards established, un-
der the title of the Chamhre de rArtenal, which
took cognizance of all the malversations commit-
ted in the financial departments of the govern~
ment during the late unhappy period. A Master
of Requests, named Falhonet, together with the
Abbe Clement, and two clerks in their employ,
had been concerned in divers acts of peculation,
to the amount of upwards of a million of livres.
The first two were sentenced to be beheaded, and
the latter to be hanged; but their punishment was
afterwards commuted into imprisonment for life in
the Bastile. Numerous other acts of dishonesty
were discovered, and punished by fine and im-
prisonment.
D'Argenson shared with Law and the Regent
the unpopularity which had alighted upon all those
concerned in the Mississippi madness. He was dis-
missed from his post of Chancellor, to make room
for D'Aguesseau ; but he retained the title of
Keeper of the Seals, and was allowed to. attend
the councils whenever he pleased. He thought
it better, however, to withdraw from Paris, and
live for a time a life of seclusion at his country-
seat. _But he was not formed for retirement, and
becoming moody and discontented, he aggravated
a disease under which he had long laboured, and
died in less than a twelvemonth. The populace of
of Paris so detested him, that they carried their
hatred even to his grave. As his funeral proces-
7i THE MISSISSIPPI SCHEME.
sion passed to the church of St. Nicholas du Char-
donneret, the burying-place of his family, it was
beset by a riotous mob, and his two sons, who
were following as chief-mourners, were obliged to
drive as fast as they were able down a by-street to
escape personal violence.
As regards Law, he for some time entertained
a hope that he should be recalled to France, to
aid in establishing its credit upon a firmer basis.
The death of the Regent, in 1128, who expired
suddenly, as he was sitting by the fireside con-
versing with his mistress, the Dllchess de Phalaris,
deprived him of that hope, and he was reduced
to lead his former life of gambling. He was more
tllan once obliged to pawn his diamond, the sole
remnant of his vast wealth, hut successful play
generally enabled him to redeem it. Being per-
secuted by his creditors at Rome, he proceeded
to Copenhagen, where he received permission from
the English ministry to reside in his native coun-
try, his pardon for the murder of Mr. Wilson
having been sent over to him in 1719. He was
brought over in the admiral's ship, a circumstance
which gave occasion for a short debate in the
House of Lords. Earl Coningsby complained that
a man, who bad renounced both his country and
his religion, should have been treated with such
honour, and expressed his belief that his presence
in England, at a time when the people were so
bewildered by the nefarious practices of the South
THE MISSISSCPPI SCHEME. 78
Sea directors, would be attended with no little
danger. He gave notice of a motion on the sub-
ject; but it was allowed to drop, no other mem-
ber of the House having the slightest participation
in his lordship's fears. Law remained for about
four years in England, and then proceeded to
Venice, where he died i~ 1729, in very embarrassed
circumstances. The following epitaph was written
at the time :-
u Ci g~t oet Ecossais celebre,
Ce calculateur sans egal,
Qui, par les regles de l'algebre,
A mis la France a l'Hopital."
His brother, William Law, who had been con-
cerned with him in the administration both of the
Bank and the Louisiana Company, was imprisoned
in the Bastile for alleged malversation, but no
guilt was ever proved against him. He was libe-
rated after fifteen months, and became the founder
of a family, which is still known in France under
the title of Marquises of Lauriston.
In the next chapter will be found an account
of the madness which infected the people of Eng-
land at the same time, and under very similar
circumstances, but which, thanks to the energies
and good sense of a constitutional government, was
attended with results far less disastrous than those
which were seen in France.
74 THE SOUTH SEA BU~BLE.
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
•
At length corruption, like a geneml flood,
Did del~ all, and avarice creeping on,
Spread, like a low-born mist, and hid the sun.
Statesmen and patriots plied alike the stocks,
Peeress and butler shared alike the box ;
And judges jobbed, and bishops bit the town,
And mighty dukes packed cards for half-a-crown :
Britain was sunk in lucre's sordid charma.-PoP:s.
TaE South Sea Company was originated by the
celebrated Harley, Earl of Oxford, in the year
1711, with the view of restoring public credit,
which had suffered by the dismissal of the Whig
ministry, and of providing for the discharge of the
army and navy debentures, and other parts of the
~oating debt, amounting to nearly ten millions
sterling. A company of merchants, at that time
without a name, took this debt upon themselves,
and th.e government agreed to secure them, for a
certain period, the interest of six per cent. To
pro~ide for this interest, amounting 19 600,000/.
per annum, the duties upon wines, vinegar, India
goods, wrought silks, tobacco, whale-fins, and some
other articles, were rendered permanent. The
monopoly of the trade to the South Seas was
granted, and the company, being incorporated by
THE SOUTll SEA BUBBLE. 76
Act of Parliament, assumed the title by which it
has ever since been known. The minister took,
great credit to himself for his share in this trans-
action, arid the scheme was always called by his
flatterers " the Earl ofOxford's masterpiece."
Even at this early period of its history, the most
visionary ideas were formed by the company and
the public of the immense riches of the eastern
coast of South America. Everybody had heard of
the gold and silver mines of Peru and Mexico;
every one believed them to be inexhaustible, and
that it was only necessary to send the manufactures
of England to the coast, to be repaid a hundred.
fold in gold and silver ingots by the natives. A re-
port, industriowly spread, that Spain was willing to
concede four ports, on the coasts ofChili and Peru,
for the purposes of traffic, increased the general
confidence; and for many years the South Sea
Company's stock was in high favour.
Philip V. of Spain, however, never had any in-
tention of admitting the English to a free trade in
the ports of Spanish America. Negotiations were
set on foot, but their only result was the assiento
contract, or the privilege of supplying the colonies
with negroes for thirty years, and of sending once
a year a vessel, limited both as to tonnage and
value of cargo, to trade with Mexico, Peru, or
Chili. The latter permission was only granted
upon the hard condition, that the King of Spain
should enjoy one-fourth of the profits, and a tax of
76 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
five per cent. on the remainder. This was a great
disappointment to the Earl ofOxford and his party,
who were reminded much oftener than they found
agreeable of the
" P arlUriunt nwnte8, na8citur rid·
WuiU8 mu~."
But the public confidence in the South Sea Com-
pany was not shaken. The Earl of Oxford de-
clared, that Spain would permit two ships,. in
addition to the annual ship, to carry out merchan-
dise during the first year ; and a list was published,
in which all the ports and harbours of these coasts
were pompously set forth as open to the trade of
Great Britain. The first voyage ofthe annual ship
was not made till the year 1717, and in the follow-
ing year the trade was suppressed by the rupture
with Spain.
The King's speech, at the opening of the session
of 1717, made pointed allusion to the state of pub-
lic credit, and recommended that proper measures
should be taken to reduce the national debt. The
two great monetary corporations, the South Sea
Company and the Bank of England, made pro-
posals to Parliament on the 20th of May ensuing.
The South Sea Company prayed that their capital
stock of ten millions might be increased to twelve,
by subscription or otherwise, and offered to accept
five per cent. instead ofsix upon the whole amount.
The Bank made proposals equally advantageous.
The House debated for some time, and finally
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 77
three acts were passed, called the South Sea Act,
the Bank Act, and the General Fund Act. By the
first, the proposals of the South Sea Company were
accepted, and that body held itself ready to ad-
vance the sum of two millions towards discharging
the principal and interest of the debt due by the
state for the four lottery funds of the ninth and
tenth years of Queen Anne. By the second act,
the Bank received a lower rate of interest for the
sum of 1,775,0~71. 15s. due to it by the state, and
agreed to deliver up to be cancelled as many Ex-
chequer bills as amounted to two millions sterling,
and to accept of an annuity of one hundred thou-
sand pounds, being after the rate of five peT cent.,
the whole redeemable at one year's notice. They
were further required to be ready to advance, in
case of need, a sum not exceeding i,500,000l. upon
the same terms of five per cent. interest, redeem-
able by Parliament. The General Fund Act re-
cited the various deficiencies, which were to be
made good by the aids derived from the foregoing
sources.
The name of the South Sea Company was thus
continually before the public. Though their trade
with the South American States produced little or
no augmentation oftheir revenues, they continued to
flourish as a monetary corporation. Their stock was
in high request, and the directors, buoyed up with
success, began to think of new means for extend-
. ing their influence. The Mississippi scheme ofJohn
78 THE SOUTII SEA BUBBLE.
Law, which so dazzled and captivated the French
people, inspired them with an idea that they could
carryon the same game in England. The anticipated
failure of his plans did not divert them from their
intention. Wise in their own conceit, they ima-
gined they could avoid his faults, carry on their
schemes for ever, and stretch the cord of credit to
its extremest tension, without causing it to snap
asunder.
It was while Law's plan was at its greatest height
of popularity, while people were crowding in thou-
sands to the Rue Quincampoix, and ruining them-
selves with frantic eagerness, that the South Sea
directors laid before Parliament their famous plan
for paying ofFthe national debt. Visions of bound-
less wealth floated before the fascinated eyes of
the people in the two most celebrated countries
of Europe. The English commenced their career
of extravagance somewhat later than the French;
but as soon as the delirium seized them, they were
determined not to be outdone. Upon the 22nd of
January 1720, the House ofCommons resolved itself
into a Committee of the whole House, to take into
consideration that part of the King's speech at the
opening of the session which related to the public
debts., and the proposal of the South Sea Com-
pany towards the redemption and sinking of the
same. The proposal set forth at great length,
and under several heads, the debts of the state,
TUE SOU'fll SEA BUUBLE. 79
amounting to 30,981J712t. which the Company
were anxious to take upon themselves, upon con-
sideration of five per cent. per annum, secured to
them until Midsummer 1727 ; after which time,
the whole was to become redeemable at the plea-
sure of the legislature, and the interest to be re-
·duced to four per cent. The proposal was received
with great favour; but the Bank of England had
many friends in the House of Commons, who were
desirous that that body should share in the advan-
tages that were likely to accrue. On behalf ofthis
corporation it was represented, that they had per-
formed great and eminent services to the state,
in the most difficult times, and deserved, at least,
that if any advantage was to be made by public
bargains of this nature, they should be preferred
before a company that had never done any thing
for the nation. The further consideration of the
matter was accordingly postponed for five days.
In the mean time, a plan was drawn up by the
Governors of the Bank. The South Sea Com-
pany, afraid that the Bank might offer still more
advantageous terms to the government than them-
selves, reconsidered their former proposal, and ·
made some alterations in it, which they hoped
would render it more acceptable. The principal
change was a stipulation that the government
might redeem these debts at the expiration of four
years, instead of seven, as at first suggested. The
80 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
Bank resolved not to be outbidden in this singular
auction, and the Governors also reconsidered their
first proposal, and sent in a new one.
Thus, each corporation having made two pro-
posals, the House began ·to deliberate. Mr. Robert
Walpole was the chief speaker in favour of the
Bank, and Mr. Aislabie. the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer, the principal advocate on behalf of the
South Sea Company. It was resolved, on the
2nd of February, that the proposals of the latter
were most adva:ntageous to the country. They
were accordingly received, and leave was given
to bring in a bill to that effect.
Exchange Alley was in a fever of excitement.
The Company's stock, which had been at a hun-
dred and thirty the previous day, gradually rose to
three hundred, and continued to rise with the most
astonishing rapidity during the whole time that
the bill in its several stages was under discussion.
Mr. Walpole was almost the only statesman in the
House who spoke out boldly against it. He warned
them, in eloquent and solemn language, of the
evils that would ensue. It countenanced, be said,
u the dangerous practice of stockjobbing, and
would divert the genius of the nation from tr,
ade
and industry. It would bold out a dangerous lure
to decoy the unwary to their ruin, by making them
part with the earnings oftheir labour for a prospect
of imaginary wealth. The great principle of the
project was an evil of first-rate magnitude ; it was
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 81
to raise artificially the value of the stock. by ex~
citing and keeping up a general infatuation, and by
promising dividends out offunds which could never
be adequate to the purpose. In a prophetic spirit
he added, that if the plan succeeded, the directors
would become masters of the government, form a
new and absolute aristocracy in the kingdom; and
control the resolutions of the legislature. If it
failed, which he was convinced it would, the result
would bring general discontent and ruin upon the
country. Such would be the delusion, that when
the evil day came, as come it would, the people
would start up, as from a dream, and ask them-
selves if these things could have been true. All
his eloquence was in vain. He was looked upon as
a false prophet, or compared to the hoarse raven,
croaking omens ofevil. His friends, however, com-.
pared him to Cassandra, predicting evils which
would only be believed when they came home to
men's hearths, and staretl them in the face at their
own boards. Although, in former times, the House
had listened with the utmost attention to every
word that fell from his Jips, the benches became de-
serted when it was known that he would speak on
the South Sea question.
The bill was two months in its progress through
the House of Commons. During this time every
exertion was made by the directors and their
friends, ~nd more especially by the Chairman, th~
noted Sir John Blunt, to raise the price of the
VOL, I. Q
82 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
stock. The most extravagant rumours ·were in
circulation. Treaties between England and Spain
were spoken of, whereby the latter was to grant a
free trade.to all her colonie~ ; and the rich produce
of the mines of Potosi.Ia-Paz was to be brought to
Englan<l until silver should become.almost as plen-
tiful as iron. For cot~on and woollen goods, with
which .we could supply them in abundance, the
dwelle.rs in Mexico were to empty their golden
mines. The company of merchants trading to the
South .Seas would be. the. richest the world ever
saw, -and every hundred pounds in':ested in it
would produce hundreds per annum to the stock-
holder. At last the .stock was .raised by these
means_to near four hundred ; but, after fluctuating
ll go.od deal, settled at three hundred and thirty,
at. which price it remained when the bill passed
the Commons by a major_
ity of 172 against 55.
In the House of Lords the bill was hurried
through all its stages with unexampled rapidity.
On the 4th of April it was read a first time; on
the 5th, it was read a second time ; on the 6th, it
was committed ; and on t~e 7th, was read a third
time, and passed.
Several peers spoke warmly against the scheme.;
but their warnings fell upon dull, cold ears. A
speculating frenzy had seized them as well as the
plebeians. Lord North and Grey said the bill was
unjust in its nature, and might prove fatal in its
consequences, being calculated to enrich the few
and impoverish the many. The Duke of Wharton
THE. SOUTH SEA· BUBBLE. 88
followed ; but, as he only retailed at second-hand
the arguments so eloquently stated by Walpole in
the Lower House, he was not listened to with even
the same attention that had been bestowed upon
Lord North and Grey. Earl Cowper followed on
the same side, and compared the bill to the famous
horse of the siege of Troy. Like that, it was
ushered in and received with great pomp and ac-
clamations of joy, but bore within it treachery
and destruction. The Earl of Sunderland endea-
voured to answer all objections; and, on the ques-
tion being put, there appeared only seventeen peers
against, and eighty-three in favour of the project.
The very same day on which it passed the Lords,
it received the Royal assent, and became the law of
the land.
It.seemed at that time as if the whole nation bad
turned stockjobbers. Exchange Alley was every
day blocked·up by crowds, and Cornbill was im..
passable for the number of carriages. Everybody
came to purchase stock. u Every fool aspired to
be a knave." In the words of a ballad, published
at the time, and sung about the streets,.
Then stars and garters did appear
Among the meaner rabble ;
To buy and sell, to see and hear,
The Jews and Gentiles squabble.
• " A South Sea Ballad ; or, Merry Remarks upon Exchange
Alley :Bubbles. To a new tune, called <The Grand Elixir ; or,
the Philosopher's Stone Discovered.' "
84 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
The greatest ladies thither came,
And plied in chariots daily,
Or pawned their jewels for a awn
To venture in the Alley.
• • • •
The inordinate thirst of gain that had afflicted
all ranks of society, was not to be slaked even in
the South Sea. Other scl1emes, of the most ex~
travagant kind, were started. The share-lists were
speedily filled up, and an enormous traffic ·carried
on in shares, while, of course, every means were
resorted to, to raise them to an artificial value in
the market.
Contrary to all expectation, South Sea stock
fell when the bill received the Royal assent. On
the 7th of April the shares were quoted at three
hundred and ten, and on the following day, at
two hu.ndred and ninety. Already the directors
had tasted the profits of their scheme, and it
was not likely that they should quietly allow the
stock to find its natural level, without an efFort to
raise it. Immediately their busy emissaries were
set to work. Every person interested in the suc-
cess of the project endeavoured to draw a knot of
listeners around him, to whom he expatiated on
the treasures of the South American seas. Ex-
change Alley was crowded with attentive groups.
One rumour alone, asserted with the utmost con-
ndence, bad an immediate effect upon the stock:
It was said, that Earl Stanhope had re.ceived over-
tures in France from the Spanish Government to
I' ' I
TJIE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 85
exchange Gibraltar and Port Mahon for some places
en the coast of' Peru, for the security and en-
largement of the trade in the"South Seas. Instead
of one annual ship trading to those ports, and
allowing the King of Spain twenty-five per cent.
out of the profits, the Company might build and
charter as many ships as they pleased, and pay no
percentage whatever to any foreign potentate.
Visions ofingots danced before their eyea,
and stock rose rapidly. On the 12th of April, five
.days after the bill had become law, the directora
opened their books for a subscription of a million,
at the rate of soot. for every 100/. capital. Such
~as the concourse of persons, of all ranks, that this
first subscription was found to amount to above two
millions of original stock. It was to be paid at
five payments, of 60/. each for every 100/. In a
few days the stock advanced to three hundred and
.forty, and the subscriptions were sold for double
the price of the first payment. To raise the stock
still higher, it was declared, in a gene.-al court of
directors, on the !1st of April, that the midsummer
dividend should be ten per cent., and that all sub-
.scriptions should be entitled to the same. These
.resolutions answering the end designed, the direc-
-tors, to improve the infatuation ofthe monied wen,
opened their books for a second subscription of a
million, at four hundred per cent. Such was the
frantic eagerness of people of every class to specu-
86 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
]nte in _
these funds, that in the course of a few
hours no less than a million and a half was sub.
scribed at that rate.
In the mean time, innumerable joint-stock com-
panies started up everywhere. They soon re.
ceived the name of Bubbles, the most appropriate
that imagination could devise. The populace are
often most happy in the nicknames they employ.
None could be more apt than that of Bubbles.
Some of them lasted for a week, or a fortnight,
and were no more heard of, while others could
not even live out that short span of existence.
Every evening produced new schemes, and every
morning new projects. The highest of the aris-
tocracy were as eager in this hot pursuit of gain
as· the most plodding jobber in Cornhill. The
Prince of Wales became governor of one company,
and is said to have cleared 40,0001. by his specu-
lations.• The Duke of Bridgewater started a
scheme for the improvement of London and West-
minster, and the Duke of Chandos another. There
were nearly a hundred different projects, each more
extravagant and deceptive than the other. To use
the words of the 11
Political State," they were "set
on foot and promoted by crafty knaves, then pur-
sued by multitudes of covetous fools, and at last
appeared to be, in effect, what their vulgar ap-
pellation denoted them to be-bubbles and mere
• Coxe'aWalpole, Correspondence betwee11 Mr. Secretary Craggs
and Earl Stanhope.
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE~ 87
cheats/' It was computed that near one million
and a half sterling was won and lost by these un-
warrantable practices, to the impoverishment of
many a foo), and the enriching of many a rogue.
Some of these schemes were plausible enough,
and, bad they been undertaken at a time when
the public mind was unexcited, might have been
pursued with advantage to all concerned. But
they were established merely with the view of
raising the shares in the market. The projectors
took the first opportunity of a rise to sell out, and
next morning the scheme was at an end. Mait-
land, in his History of London, gravely informs us,
that one of the projects which received great en-
couragement, was for the establishment of a com-
pany u to make deal-boards out ofsaw-dust.'' This
is, no doubt, intended as a joke; but there is abun-
dance of evidence~ to show that dozens of schemes
hardly a whit more reasonable, lived their little
day, ruining hundreds ere they fell. One of them
was for a wheel for perpetual motion-capital, one
million ; another was " for encouraging the breed
of horses in England, and improving of glebe and
church lands, and repairing and rebuilding parson-
age and vicarage houses.'' Why the clergy, who
were so mainly interested in the latter clause,
should have taken so much interest in the first,
is only to be explained ~n the supposition that
the scheme was projected by a knot of the fox-
hunting parsons, once so common in England.
88 THE SOUTH SEA Bl'BBLE.
The shares of this company were rapidly sub·
scribed for. But the most absurd and preposterous
of all, and which showed, more completely than
any other, the utter madness ofthe people, was one
started by an unknown adventurer, entitled u A
C()tnpany for carrying on an undertaking of great
advantage, hut nobody to know what it is." Were
not the fact stated by scores of credible witnesses,
it would be impossible to believe that any person
could have been duped by such a project. The
man of genius who esRayed this Qold and successful
inroad upon public credulity, merely stated in his
prospectus· that the required capital was half a
million, in five thousand shares of 1001. each, de-
posit 2Z. per share.. Each subscriber, paying his
deposit, would be entitled to 1001. per annum per
share. How this immense profit was to be ob-
tained, he did not condescend to inform them at
that time, but promised, that in a month full par-
ticulars should be duly announced, and a call made
for the remaining 981. of the subscription. Next
morning, at nine o'clock, this great man opened
an office in Comhill. Crowds of people beset his
door, and when he shut up at three o'clock, he
found that no less than one thousand shares had
been subscribed for, and the deposits paid. He
was thus, in five hours, the winner of 2,000/. He
was philosopher enough to be contented with his
venture, and set off the same evening for the Con-
tinent. He was never heard of again.
.TilE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 89
Well might Swift exclaim, comparing Change
AJJey to a gulf in the South Sea,-
Subsctibers here by thousands float,
And jostle one another down,
Ea(h paddling in hie leaky boat,
And he.re they fish for gold, and drown.
Now buried in the depths below,
Now mounted up to heaven again,
They reel and stagger to and fro,
At their wit'a end, like drunken men
Meantime, seeure on Ganaway cliffs,
A savage race, by shipwrecks fed,
Lie waiting for the foundered skiffs,
And strip the l:>odiea ofthe dead.
Another fraud that was very successful, was that
of the " Globe Permits," as they were called.
They were nothing more than square pieces of
playing cards, on which was the impression of a
seal, in wax, bearing the sign of the Globe Tavern,
in the neighbourhood of Exchange Alley, with the
inscription of " Sail Cloth Permits." The pos..
11essors enjoyed no other advantage from them than
permission to subscribe, at some future time, to
a new sail-cloth ~anufactory, projected by one
who was then known to be a man of fortune, but
who was afterwards involved in the peculation and
punishment of the South Sea directors. These
permits sold for as much as sixty guineas in the
Alley.
Persons of distinction, of both sexes, were deeply
engaged in all these bubbles, those of the male
90 TilE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
sex going to taverns and coffee-houses to meet
their brokers, and the ladies resorting for the same
purpose to the shops of milliners and haberdashers.
But it did not follow that all these people believed
in the feasibility of the schemes to which they
subscribed ; it was enough for their purpose that
their shares would, by stock-jobbing arts, be soon
raised to a premium, when they got rid of them
with all expedition to the really credulous. So
great was the confusion of the crowd in the alley,
that shares in the same bubble were known to
have been sold at the same instant ten per cent.
higher at one end of the alley than at the other.
Sensible men beheld the extraordinary infatuation
of the people with sorrow and alarm. There were
some, both in and out of Parliament, who foresaw
clearly the ruin that was impending. Mr. Walpole
did not cease his gloomy forebodings. His fears
were shared by all the thinking few, and impressed
most forcibly upon the government. On the 11th
of June, the day the Parliament rose, the King
published a proclamation, declaring that all these
unlawful projects should be deemed public nui-
sances, and prosecuted accordingly, and forbid-
ding any broker, under a penalty of five hundred
pounds, from buying or selling any shares in them.
Notwithstanding this proclamation, roguish spe-
culators still carried them on, and the deluded
people still encouraged them. On the 12th of
July, an order of the Lords Justices assembled in
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 91
privy council was published, dismissing all the pe-
titions that had been presented for patents and
charters, and dissolving a11 the bubble companies.
The following copy of their lordships' order, con-
taining a list of all these nefarious projects, will
not be deemed uninteresting at the present day,
when there is but too much tendency in the public
mind to indulge in similar practices :-
u At the Council Chamber, Whitehall, the 12th
day of July, 1720. Present, their Excel-
lencies the Lords Justices in Council.
u Their Excellencies, 'the Lords Justices in coun-
cil, taking into consideration the many inconve-
niences arising to the public from several projects
set on foot for. raising of joint stock for various
purposes, and that a great many of his Majesty's
subjects have been drawn in to part with their
money on pretence of assurances that their peti-
tions for patents and charters, to enable them to
carry on the same, would be granted : to prevent
such impositions, their Excellencies, this day, or-
dered the said several petitions, together with such
reports from the Board of Trade, and from his
Majesty's Attorney and Solicitor General, as had
been obtained thereon, to be laid before them, and
after mature consideration thereof, were pleased,
by advice of his Majesty's Privy Council, to order
that the said petitions be dismissed, which are as
follow:-
92 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
" 1. Petition of several persons, praying letters
patent for carrying on a fishing trade, by the name
of the Grand Fishery of Great Britain.
" 2. Petition of the Company of the Royal
Fishery of England, praying letters patent for such
further powers as will eft'ectuaUy contribute to
carry on the said fishery.
u 8. Petition of George James, on behalf of
himself and "divers persons of distinction concerned
in a national fishery; praying letters patent of
incorporation to enable them to carry on the
same.
u 4. Petition of several merchants, traders, and
.others, whose names are thereunto subscribed,
praying to be incorporated for reviving and carry-
ing on a whale fishery to Greenland and else-
where.
·
11
5•. Petition of Sir John Lambert, and others
thereto subscribing, on behalf of themselves and
a great number of merchants, praying to be in·
corporated for carrying on a Greenland trade, and
particularly a whale fishery in Davis's Straits.
" 6. Another petition for a Greenland trade.
" 7. Petition of several merchants, gentlemen,
and citizens, praying to be incorporated for buying
and building of ships to let or freight.
u 8. Petition of Samuel Antrim and others, pray-
ing for letters patent for sowing hemp and flax.
" 9. Petition of several merchants, masters of
ships, sail-makers, and manufacturers of sail-cloth.,
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 9S
praying a charter of incorporation, to enable them
to carry on and promote the said manufactory by
a joint stock.
'' 10. Petition of Thomas Boyd, and several hun-
dred merchants, owners and masters of ships, sail-
makers, weavers, and other traders, praying a char-
ter of incorporation, empowering them to borrow
money for purchasing lands, in order to the manu-
facturing sail-cloth and fine Holland.
'' 11. Petition on behalf of several persons in-
terested in a patent granted by the late King Wil-
liam and Queen Mary, for the making of linen and
sail-cloth, praying that no charter may be granted
to any persons whatsoever for making sail-cloth,
but that the privilege now enjoyed by them may
be confirmed, and likewise an additional power to
carry on the cotton and cotton-silk manufactures.
, •• 12•. Petition ofseveral citizens, merchants, a·nd
traders in London, and others, subscribers to a
British stock, for a general insurance from fire in
any part of England, praying to be incorporated
for carrying on the said undertaking.
" 18. Petition of several of his Majesty's loyal
subjec~s of the city of London, and other parts
of ('heat Britain, praying to be incorporated, for
carrying on a general insurance from losses by
fire within the kingdom of England.
" 14. Petition of Thomas :Burges, and others his
Majesty's subjects thereto subscribing, in behalf of
themselves and others, subscribers to a fund of
94 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
1,200,000l, for carrying.on·a trade to his Majes-
ty's German dominions, praying to be incorporated,
by the name of the Harburg Company.
~~ 15. Petition of Edward Jones, a dealer in tim-
ber, on behalf of himself and others, praying to
be incorporated for the importation of timber from
Germany.
" 16. Petition of several merchants of London,
praying a charter of incorporation for carrying
on a salt-work.
11
17. Petition of Captain Macphedris, of London,
merchant, on behalf of himself and several mer-
chants, clothiers, hatters, dyers, and other traders,
praying a charter of incorporation, empowering
them to rai~e a sufficient sum of money to purchase
lands for planting and rearing a wood called mad-
der, for the use of dyers.
~' 18. Petition of Joseph Galendo, of London,
snuff-maker, praying a patent for his invention to
prepare and cure Virginia tobacco for snufFin Vir-
ginia, and making it into the same in all his Majes-
ty's dominions."
LIST OF BUBBLES.
The following Bubble Companies were by the
same order declared to be illegal, and abolished
accordingIy :-
1. For the importation of Swedish iron.
2. For supplying London with sea-coal. Capi-
tal, three millions.
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 95
S. For building and rebuilding houses through-
out all England. Capital, three millions.
4. For making of muslin.
5. For carrying on and improving the British
alum works.
6. For effectually settling the island of Blanco
and Sal Tartagus.
7. For supplying the town of Deal with fresh
water.
8. For the importation of Flanders lace.
9. For improvement of lands in Great Britain.
Capital, four millions.
10. For encouraging the breed of horses in Eng-
land, and improving of glebe and church lands, and
for repairing and rebuilding parsonage and vicar-
age houses.
11. For making of iron and steel in Great
Britain.
12. For improving the land in the county of
Flint. Capital, ·one million.
18. For purchasing lands to build on. Capital,
two millions.
14. F9~ trading in hair.
15. For erecting salt-works in Holy Island. Ca-
pital, two millions.
16. For buying and selling estates, and lending
money on mortgage.
17. For carrying on an undertaking of great
advantage, but nobody to know what it is.
96 THE SOUTH S"EA BUBBLE~
18. For paving the streets of London: Capital,.
two millions.
19. For furnishing funerals to any part of Great
Britain.
20. For buying and selling Lands and lending
money at interest. Capital, five millions.
21. For carrying on the Royal Fishery of Great
Britain. Capital, ten millions.
22. For assuring of seamen's wages.
23. For erecting loan-offices for the assistance
and encouragement of the industrious. Capital,
two millions.
24. For purchasing and improving leasable lands.
Capital, four millions.
25. For importing pitch and tar., and other naval
stores, from North Britain and America.
26. For the clothing, felt, and pantile trade.
27. For purchasing and improving a manor and
royalty in Essex.· -
28. For insuring of horses. Capital, two mil-
lions.
29. For exporting the woollen manufacture, and
importing copper, brass, and iron. Capital, four
-millions.
30. For a grand dispensary. Capital, three
millions.
31. For erecting mills and purchasing lead
mines. Capital, two millions.
82. For improving the art.of making soap.
S3. For a settlement on the island of Santa
Cruz.
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 97
84. For sinking pits and smelting lead ore in
Derbyshire.
~5. For making glass bottles and other glass.
86. For a wheel for perpetual motion. Capital,
one million.
87. For improving ofgardens.
88. For insuring and increasing children's for-
tunes.
89. For entering and loading goods at the cus.
tom-house, and for negotiating business for mer-
chants.
40. For carrying on a woollen manufacture in
the north of England.
41. For importing walnut-trees from Virginia.
Capital, two millions.
42. For making Manchester stuffs of thread and
cotton.
48. For making Joppa and Castile soap.
44. For· improving the wrought-iron and steel
manufactures of this kingdom. Capital, four mil.
lions.
45. For dealing in lace, Hollands. cambrics.
lawns, &c. Capital, two millions.
46. For trading in and improving certain com-
modities of the produce of this kingdom, &c. Ca.
pital, three millions.
47. For supplying the Lonaon markets with
cattle.
48. For making 1ooking-g1asses, coach glasses,
&c. Capital, two millions.
VOL, I. B
98 TUE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
49. For working the tin and lead mines in Corn-
wall and Derbyshire.
50. For making rape-oil.
51. For importing beaver fur. Capital, two
millions.
52. For making pasteboard and packing-paper.
58. For importing of oils and other materials
used in the woollen manufacture.
54. For·improving and increasing the silk ma-
nufac~ures.
55. For lending money on stock, annuities, tal..
Jies, &c.
66. For paying pensions to widows and others,
at a small discount. Capital, two millions.
57. For improving malt liquors. Capital, four
millions.
58. For a grand American fishery.
59. For purchasing and improving the fenny
lands in Lincolnshire. Capital, two millions.
60. For improving the paper manufacture of
Great Britain.
61. The Bottomry Company.
62. For drying malt by hot air.
63. For carrying on a trade in the river Oro-
nooko.
64. For the more effectual making of baize, iJt
Colchester and other parts of Great Britain.
65. For buying of naval stores, supplying the
victualling, and paying the wages of the workmen.
66. For employing poor artificers, and furnish·
ing merchants and others with watches.
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 99
67. For improvement of tillage and the breed of
cattle.
68. Another for the improvement of our breed
of horses.
69. Another for a horse-insurance..
70. For carrying on the corn trade of Great
Britain.
71. For insuring to all masters and mistresses
the losses they may sustain by servants. Capital,
three millions.
72. For erecting houses or hospitals, for taking
in and maintaining illegitimate children. Capital,
two millions.
73. For bleaching coarse sugars, without the use
of fire or loss of substance.
74. For building turnpikes and wharfs in Great
Britain.
75. For insuring from thefts and robberies.
76. For extracting silver from lead.
77. For making China and Delft ware. Capital,
one million.
78. For importing tobacco, and exporting it
again to Sweden and the north of Europe. Capi..
tal, four millions.
79. For making iron with pit coal.
80. For furnishing the cities of London and
Westminster with hay and straw. Capital, three
milltons.
81. Fat a sail and packing cloth manufactory
in Ireland.
H2
lQO THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
8~. For taking up ballast.
83. For buying and fitting out ships to suppress
pirates.
841. For the importation of timber from Wales.
Capital, two millions.
85. For rock-salt.
86. For the transmutation of quicksilver into a
malleable fine metal.
Besides these bubbles, many others sprang up
daily, in spite of the condemnation of the Govern-
ment and the ridicule of the still sane portion of
the public. The print-shops teemed with carica-
tures, and the newspapers with epigrams and satires,
upon the prevalent folly. An ingenious card-maker
published a pack ofSouth Sea playing-cards, which
are now extremely rare, each card containing, be-
sides the usual figures, of a very small size, in one
comer, a caricature of a bubble company, with ap-
propriate verses underneath. One of the most
famous bubbles was u Puckle's Machine Company,..
for discharging round and square cannon-balJs and
bullets, and making a total revolution in the art of
war. Its pretensions to public favour were thus
summed up, on the eight ofspades :-
A rare invention to destroy the crowd
orfools at home, instead offoolll abroad.
Fear not, my friends, this terrible machine,
They're only wounded who have shares therein.
The nine of hearts was a caricature of.the Eng-
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 101
lish Copper and Brass Company, with the following
epigram:-
The headlong fool that wants to be a swopper
Ofgold and silver coin for English copper,
llfay, in Change Alley, prove himselfan aaa,
And give rich metal for adulterate brasa.
.
Tbe eight of diamonds celebrated the Company
for the Colonization of Acadia, with this doggrel :-
He that is rich and wants to fool away
A good round sum in North America,
Let him subscribe himself a headlopg sharer,
And asses' ears shall honour him or bearer.
And in a similar style every card of the pack ex-
posed some knavish scheme, and ridiculed the per-
sons who were its dupes. It was computed that the
total amount of the sums proposed for carrying on
these projects was upwards of three hundred mil-
lions sterling, a sum so immense that it exceeded
the value of all the lands in England at twenty
years' purchase.
It is time, however, to return to the great South
Sea gulf, that swallowed the fortunes of so many
thousands of the avaricious and the credulous. On
the 29th of May, the stock had risen as high as
five hundred, and about two-thirds of the govern-
ment annuitants had exchanged the securit.ies of
the state for those of the South Sea Company.
During the whole of the mouth of May the stock
continued to rise, and on the ~8th it was quoted at
10i THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
five hundred and fifty. In four days after this it
took a prodigious leap, rising suddenly from ~ve
hundred and fifty to eight hundred and ninety. It
was now the general opinion that the stock could
rise no higher, and many persons took that oppor-
tunity of selling.out, with a view of l'ealising their
profits. Many noblemen and persons in the train
of the King, and about to accompany him to
Hanover, were also anxious to sell out. So many
sellers, and so few buyers7 appeared in the Alley on
the 8rd of June, that the stock feU at once from
eight hundred and ninety to six hundred and forty.
The directors were alarmed, and gave their agents
orders to buy. Their efforts succeeded. Towards
evening confidence was restored, and the stock ad-
vanced to seven hundred and fifty. It continued
at this price, with some slight fluctuation, until
the company closed their books on the 22nd of
June.
It would be needless and uninteresting to deta~l
the various arts employed by the directors to keep
up the price of stock. It will be sufficient to state
that it finally rose to one thousand per cent. It
was quoted at this price in the commencement
of August. The bubble was then full-blown, and
began to quiver and shake, preparatory to its
bursting.
Many of the government annuitants expressed
dissatisfaction against the directors. They accused
them of partiality in making out the lists for shares
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 108
m each subscription. Further uneasiness was oc-
casioned by its being generally known that Sir
John Blunt, the chairman, and some others, had
sold out. During the whole of the month of Au-
gust the stock fell, and on the 2nd of September
it was quoted at seven hundred only.
The state of things now became alarming. To
prevent, if possible, the utter extinction of public
confidence in their proceedings, the directors sum-
moned a general court of the whole corporation,
to meet in Merchant Tailors' .Hall, on the 8th of
September• . By nine o,clock in the morning, the
room was filled to suffocation ; Cheapside was
blocked up by a crowd unable to gain admittance,
and the greatest excitement prevailed. The di-
rectors and their friends mustered in great num-
bers. Sir John Fellowes, the sub-governor, was
called to the chair. He acquainted the assembly
with the cause of their meeting, read to them the
several resolutions of the court of directors, and
gave them an account of their pro.ceedings; of the
taking in the redeemable and unredeemable funds,
and of the subscriptions in money. Mr. Secretary
Craggs then made a short speech, wherein he com-
mended the conduct of the directors, and urged
that nothing could more effectually contribute to
the bringing this scheme to perfection than union
among themselves. He concluded with a motion
for thanking the court of directors for their pru-
dent and skilful management, and for desiring
10, THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
them to proceed in such manner as they should
think most proper for the interest and ad\·antage
of the corporation. Mr. Hungerford, who bad ren·
dered himself very conspicuous in the House of
Commons for his zeal in behalf of the South Sea
Company, and who was shrewdly suspected to have
been a considerable gainer by knowing the right
time to sell out, was very magniloquent on this
occasion. He said that he had seen the rise and
fall, the decay and resurrection of many commu-
nities of this 11ature, but that, in his opjnion, none
had ever performed such wonderful things in so
short a. time as the South Sea Compan·y. They
bad done more than the crown, the pulpit, or the
bench could do. They had reconciled all parties
in one common interest; they had laid asleep, if
uot wholly extinguished, all the domestic jars and
animosities of the nation. By the rise of their
stock, monied men had vastly increased their for-
tunes; country-gentlemen had seen thevalue oftheir
lands doubled and trebled in their hands. They
had nt the same time done good to the Church,
not a few of the reverend clergy having got great
sums by the project. In short, they had enriched
the whole nation, and he hoped they had not for-
gotten themselves. There was some hissing at the
latter part of this speech, which for the extrava-
gance of its eulogy was not · far removed from
satire; but the directors and their friends, and
all the winners in the room, applauded vehemently.
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 105
The Duke of Portland spoke in a similar strain,
and expressed his great wonder why anybody
should be dissatisfied : of course, he was a win-
ner by his speculations, and in a condition similar
to that of the fat alderman in Joe Miller's Jests,
who, whenever he had eaten a good dinner, folded
his hands upon his paunch, and expressed his
doubts whether there could be a hungry man in
the world.
Several resolutions were passed at this meeting,
but they had no effect upon the public. Upon the
very same evening the stock fell to six hundred
and forty, and on the morrow to five hundred
and forty. Day after day it continued to fall,
until it was as low as four hundred. In a Jetter
dated September 18th, from Mr. Broderick, M.P.
to Lord Chancellor Middleton, and published in
Coxe•s Walpole, the fonner says,-" Various are
the conjectures why the South Sea directors have
sufFered the cloud to break so early. I made no
doubt but they would do so when they found it
to their advantage. They have stretched credit
so far beyond what it would bear, that specie
proves insufficient to support it. Their most con-
siderable men have drawn out, securing themselves
by the losses of the deluded, thoughtless numbers,
whose understandings have been overruled by ava-
rice and the hope o.f making mountains out of
mole-hills. Thousands of families will be reduced
to beggary. The consternation is iuexpressible-
106 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
the rage beyond description, and the ca.se alto-
gether so desperate that I do n,ot see any plan
or scheme so much as thought of for averting
the blow, so that I cannot pretend to guess what
is next to be done." Ten days afterwards, the
stock still falling, he writes, - " The Company
have yet come to no determination# for they are
in such a wood that they know not which way to
turn. By several gentlemen lately come to town,
I perceive the very name of a South-Sea-man
grows abominable in every country. A great many
goldsmiths are already run off, and more will daily.
I question whetheT one.third, nay, one-fourth, of
them can stand it. From the very beginning, I
founded my judgment of the whole affair upon the.
unquestionable maxim. that ten millions (which is
more than our running cash) could not circulate
two hundred millions, beyond which our paper cre-
dit extended. That, therefore, whenever that
should become doubtful, .be the cause what it
would, our noble state machine must inevitably
falJ to the ground."
On the 12th of September, at the earnest soli-
citation of Mr. Secretary Craggs, several confer.
ences were held between the directors of the South
Sea and the directors of the Bank. A report
which was circulated, that the latter bad agreed
to circulate six millions of the South Sea Com-
pany's bonds, caused the stock to rise to six hun-
dred and seventy; but in the afternoon, as soon
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 107
as the report was known to be groundless, the
stock fell again to five hundred and eighty; the
next day to five hundred and seventy, and so
gradually to four hundred.•
The ministry were seriously alarmed at the
aspect of affairs. The directors could not appear
in the streets without being insulted; dangerous
riots were every moment apprehended. Despatches
were sent off to the King at Hanover, praying his
immediate return. Mr. Walpole, who was staying
at his country-seat, was sent for, that be might
employ his known influence with the directors of
the Bank of England to induce them to accept the
proposal made by the South Sea Company for cir-
culating a number of their bonds.
The Bank was Yery unwilling to mix itself up
with the affairs of the Company ; it dreaded bei.ng
involved in calamities which it could not relieve,
and received all overtures with visible reluctance.
But the universal voice of the nation called upon
it to come to the rescue. Every person of note
• Gay (the poet), in that disas.rous year, had a present from
young Craggs of some South Sea stock, and once supposed himself
to be master of twenty thousand pounds. His friends persuaded
him to sell his share, but he dreamed of dignity and tplendour, and
could not bear to obatruet hie own fortune. He was then impor-
tuned to sell as much as would purchase a hundred a year for life,
<c which,'' says Fenton, « v.ill make you sure ofa clean shirt and a
shoulder of mutton every day." This counsel was rejected; tbe
profit and principal were lost, and Gay sunk under the calamity eo
low that his life bec11me in danger.-Jolt11.~on'1 Lives qfthe Poet&.
108 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
in commercial politics was called in to advi8e in
the emergency. A rough draft of a contract drawn
up by Mr. Walpole was ultimately adopted as the
basis of further negotiations, and the public alarm
abated a little.
On the following day, the 20th of September,
a general court of the South ·Sea Company was
held at Merchant Tailors' Hall, in which resolutions
were carried, e~powering the directors to agrt>e
with the Bank of England, or any other persons,
to circulate the Company's bonds, or make any
other agreement with the Bank which they should
think proper. One of the speakers, a Mr. Pul-
teney, said it was most surprising to see the extra-
ordinary panic which had·seized upon the people.
Men were running to and fro in alarm and terror,
their imaginations filled with some great calamity,
the form and dimensions of which nobody knew.
" Black it stood as night-
Fierce as ten furie~-terrible as helL"
At a general court of the Bank of England held
two days afterwards, the governor informed them
of the several meetings that had been held on the
affairs of the South Sea Company, adding that the
directors had not yet thought fit to come to any
decision upon the matter. A resolution was then
proposed, and carried without a dissentient voice,
empowering the directors to agree with those of
the South Sea to circulate theia· bonds, to what
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 109
sum, and upon what terms, and for what time, they
might think proper.
Thus botb parties were at liberty to act as they
might judge best for th~ public interest. Books
were opened at the Bank for a subscription of
three millions for the support of public credit,
on the usual terms of 151. per cent. deposit, 31.
per cent. premium, and 5/. per cent. interest. So
great was the concourse of people in the early part
. of the morning, all eagerly bringing their money,
that it was thought the subscription would be filled
tliat day; but before noon, the tide turned. In
spite of all that could be done to prevent it, the
South Sea Company's stock fell rapidly. Their
bonds were in such discredit, that a run com-
menced upon the most eminent goldsmiths and
bankers, some of whom having lent out great
sums upon South Sea stock were obliged to shut
up their shops and abscond. The Swurd-blade
Company, who had hitherto been the chief cashiers
of the South Sea Company, stopped payment.
This being looked upon as but the .beginning of
evil, occasioned a great run upon the Bank, who
were now obliged to pay out money much faster
than they had received it upon the subscription
in the morning. The day succeeding was a holi-:
day (the 29th of September), and the Bank had
a little breathing time. They bore up against
the storm ; but their former rivals, the South
Sea Company, were wrecked upon it. Their
•
•
110 THE SOUTH SEA BOBBLE.
.stock fell to one hundred and fifty, and gradually,
after various fluctuations, to one hundred and
thirty-five.
The Bank, finding they were not able to restore
public confidence, and stem the tide of ruin, with..
out running the risk of being swept away with
those they intended to save, declined to carry out
the agreement into which they had partially en-
tered. They were under no obligation whatever
to continue ; for the so called Bank contract ·was
nothing more than the rough draught of an agree.
ment, in which blanks had been left for several im.
portant particulars, and which contained no penalty
for their secession. u And thus," to use the words
of the Parliamentary History, "were seen, in the
space of eight months, the rise, progress, and fall
of that mighty fabric, which, being wound up by
mysterious springs to a wonderful height, had fixed
the eyes and expectations of all Europe, but whose
foundation, being fraud, illusion, credulity, and in-
fatuation, fell to the ground as soon as the artful
management of its directors was discovered."
In the hey..d.ay of its blood, during the progress
of this dangerous delusion, the manners of the
nation became sensibly corrupted. The Parlia-
mentary inquiry, set on foot to discover the delin-
quents, disclosed scenes of infamy, disgraceful alike
to the morals of the offenders and the ioteUects of
the people among whom they had arisen. It is a
deeply interesting study to investigate all the evils
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. Ill
that were the r~sult. Nations, like individuals,
cannot become desperate 'gamblers with impUnity.
Punishment is sure to overtake them sooner or
later. A celebrated writer* is quite wr.ong, when
he says, H that such an era as this is the most un-
favourable for a historian; that no reader of sen-
timent and imagination can be entertained or
interested by a detail of transactions such as these,
which admit of no warmth, no colouring, nb em-
bellishment; a detail of which only serves to ex-
hibit an inanimate picture of tasteless vice and
mean degeneracy." On the contrary, and Smollett
might have discovered it, if he had been in the
humour-
· the subject is capable of inspiring as·
much interest as even a novelist can desire. Is
there no warmth in the despair of a plundered
people ?-no life and animation in the picture
which might be drawn of the woes of hundreds of
impoverished and ruined families? of the wealthy
of yesterday become the beggars of to-day? of the
powerful and influential changed into exiles and
outcasts, and the voice of self-reproach and impre-
cation resounding from every corner of the land?
Is it a dull or uninstructive picture to see a whole
people shaking suddenly offthe trammels ofreason,
and running wild after a golden vision, refusing·
obstinately to believe that it is not real, till, like a
deluded hind running after an ignia fatuus, they are
plunged into a quagmire? But in this false spirit
• Smollett.
1Hl THE SOUTH SBA BUBBLE.
has history too often been written. The intrigues of
unworthy courtiers to gain the favour of still more
unworthy kings; or the records of. murderous bat-
tles and sieges have been dilated on, and told over
and over again, with all the eloquence of style and
all the charms of fancy; while the circumstances
which have most deeply affected the morals and
welfare of the people, have been passed over with.
but slight notice as dry and dull, and capable of
neither warmth nor colouring.
During the progress of this famous bubble, Eng·
land presented a singular spectacle. The public
mind was in a state of unwholesome fermentation.
Men were no longer satisfied with the slow but
sure profits of cautious industry. The hope of
boundless wealth for the morrow made them heed.
less and extravagant for to-day. A luxury, til)
then unheard-of, was introduced, bringing in its
train a corresponding laxity of morals. The over-
bearing insolence of ignorant men, who had arisen
to sudden wealth by successful gambling, made
men of true gentility of mind and manners, blush
that gold should have power to raise the unworthy
in the scale of society. The haughtiness of some
of these "cyphering cits/' as they were termed by
Sir Richard Steele, was remembered against them
in the day of their adversity. In the Parliament-
ary inquiry, many of the directors suffered more for
their insolence than for their peculation. One of
them, who, in the full-blown pride of an ignorant
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 118
rich man, bad said that he would· feed his horse
upon gold, was reduced almost to bread and water
for himself; every haughty look, every overbearing
speech, was set down, and repaid them a hundred-
fold in poverty and humiliation.
The state of matters all over the country was so
alarming, that George I. shortened his intended
stay in Hanover, and returned in all haste to Eng-
land. He arrived on the 11th of November, and
Parliament. was summoned to meet on the 8th of
December. In the mean time., public meetings·were
held in every considerable town of the empire, at
which petitions were adopted, praying the ven-
geance of the Legi~lature upon the South Sea di-
rectors, who, by their fraudulent practices, had
brought the nation to the brink of ruin. Nobody
seemed to imagine that the nation itself was as
culpable as the South Sea Company. Nobody
blamed the credulity and avarice of the people,-
the deg.rading lust ofgain, which had swallowed up
every nobler quality in the national character,·or
the infatuation which had made the multitude run
their heads with such frantic eagerness into the
net held out for them by scheming projectors.
These things were never mentioned. The people
were a simple, honest, hard-working people, ruined
by a gang of robben, who were to be hanged,
drawn, and quartered without mercy.
This was the almost unanimous feeling of the
country. The two Houses of Parliament were not
W~L I
114 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
more reasonable. Before the guilt of the South
Sea directors was known, punishment was the only
cry. The King, in his speech from the throne, ex-
pressed his hope that they would remember that
all their prudence, temper, and·resolution were
necessary to find out and apply the proper remedy
for their misfortunes. In the debate on the answer
to the address, several speakers indulged in the
most violent invectives against the directors of the
South Sea project. The Lord Molesworth was
particularly vehement. "It had been said by some,
that there was no law to punish the directors of
the South Sea Company, who were justly looked
upon as the authors of the present misfortunes of
the state. In his opinion they ought, upon this
occasion, to follow the example of the ancient
Romans, who, having no law against parricide, be-
cause their legislators supposed no son could be so
unnaturally wicked as to embrue his hands in his
father's blood, made a law to punish this heinous
crime as soon as it was committed. They adjudged
the guilty wretch to be sown in a sack, and thrown
alive into the Tyber. He looked upon the con·
trivers and executors of the villanous South Sea
scheme as the parricides of their country, and
should be satisfied to see them tied in like manner
in sacks, and thrown into the Thames." Other
members spoke with as much want of temper and
discretion. Mr. Walpole was more moderate. · He
recommended that their first care should be to
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 115
restore public credit. n If the city of London were
on fire, all :wise men would aid in extinguishing the
flames, and preventing the spread of the confla:-
gration before they inquired after the .incendiaries.
Public credit had received a dangerous wound, and
lay bleedipg, and they ought to apply a speedy
remt;dy to it. It was time enough to punish the
usassin afterwards." On the 9th of December an
address, in answer to his Majesty's speech, was
agreed upon, after an amendment, which W.as car-
ried without a .division, that words should be added
expressive of the determination of the House noi
only to seek a remedy for the national distresses,
but to punish tlw authors of them.
The inquiry proceeded rapidly. The directors
were ordered to Jay before the House a full account
of all their proceedings. Resolutions were passed
to the effect that the calamity was mainly owing
to the vile arts :of stockjobbers, and that nothing
could tend more to the re-establishment of public
credit than a law to prevent·this infamous practice.
Mr. Walpole then rose, and said, that a~ he had
previously .hinted, be bad spent some time upon
a scheme for restoring public credit, ~ut that, tpe
execution of it depending upon a position which
had been laid qown as fundamental, be thought it
proper, before be opened out his scheme, to be
informed whether he might rely upon that foun-
dation. It was, whether the subscriptioJl of public
debts and encumbrances, money subscriptions, and
I 2
116 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
other. contracts, made with the South ·sea Com-
pany should remain in the present state?" This
question occasioned an animated debate. It was fi-
nally agreed, by a majority of 259 against 117, that
all these contracts should remain in their present
state., unless altered for the relief of the proprietors
by a general court of the South Sea Company, or
set aside by due course of law. On the following
day Mr. Walpole laid before a committee of the
whole House his scheme for the restoration of pub-
lic credit, which was, in substance, to ingraft nine
millions of South Sea stock into the Bank of Eng-
land, and the same sum into the East India Com-
pany, upon certain conditions. The plan was
favourably teceived by the House. After ·some few
objections, it was ordered that proposals should
be received from the two great corporations. They
were both unwilling to lend their aid, and the plan
met with a warm but fruitless opposition at the
general courts summoned for the purpose of de-
liberating upon it. They, however, ultimately
agreed upon the terms on which they would con-
sent to circulate the South Sea bonds, and their
report, being presented .to the committee, a bill
was brought in, under the superintendence of Mr.
Walpole, and safely carried through both Houses
of Parliament.
A bill was at the same time brought in, for
restraining the South Sea directors, governor,
sub-governor, treasurer, cashier, and clerks from
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 117
leaving the kingdom for a twelvemonth, and for
discovering their estates and effects, and prevent-
ing them from transporting or alienating the
same. All the most influential members of the
House supported the bi11. Mr. Shippen, seeing
Mr. Secretary Craggs in his place, and believing
the injurious rumours that were afloat of that mi-
nister's conduct in the South Sea business, deter-
mined to touch him to the quick. He said, he was
glad to see a British House of Commons resuming
its pristine vigour and spirit, and acting with so
much unanimity for the public good. It was ne-
cessary to secure the persons and estates of the
South Sea directors and their officers; " but," he
added, looking fixedly at Mr. Craggs as he spoke,
" there were other men in high station, whom, in
time, be would not be afraid to name, who were
no less guilty than the directors.". Mr. Craggs
arose in great wrath, and said, that if the innuendo
were directed against him, he was ready to give
satisfaction to any man who questioned him, either
in the House or out of it. Loud cries of order
immediately arose on every side. In the midst of
the uproar Lord Molesworth got up, and expressed
his wonder at the boldness of Mr. Craggs in chal-
lenging the whole House of Commons. He, Lord
Molesworth, though somewhat old, past sixty,
would answer Mr. Craggs whatever he had to say
in the House, and he trusted there were plenty of
young men beside him, who would not be afraid
118 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
to lobk Mr. Craggs in the face, out of the House.
The cries of order again resounded from eYery
aide; the members arose simultaneously; every-
body seemed to be vociferating at once. The
Speaker in vain called order. The confusion lasted
several minutes, during which Lord Molesworth
and Mr. Craggs were almost the only members
who kept their seats. At last the call for Mr.
Craggs became so violent that he thought proper
to submit to the universal feeling of the House,
and explain his unparliamentary expression. He
said, that by giVing satisfaction to the impugners
of his conduct in that House, he did not mean that
he would fight, but th'at·he would explain his con·
duct. Here the matter ended, and the Bouse
proceeded to debate in what manner they should
conduct their inql!ii'y into the affairs of the South
Sea Company, whether in a grand or. a select com-
mittee. Ultimately, a Secret Committee ofthirteen
was appointed, with power to send for persons,
papers, and 'records.
The Lords were ·as zealous and as has·ty as the
Commons. The ..Bishop of Rochester said the
scheme bad been like a pestilence. The Duke of
Wharton said 'the House ought to show no respect
of persons ; that, for his part, he would give up the
dearest friend he had, if he had been engaged in
the project. The nation lmd.been plunderea in a
most shameful and ·flagrant manner, and he would
go as far as anybody in th'e punishment of the
l l ~'
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 119
offenders. -
Lord Stanhope said, that every farthing
possessed by the criminals, whether directors or
not directors, ought to be confiscated, to make
good the public losses.
During all this time the public excitement was
extreme. We learn, from Coxe's Walpole, th$t
the very name of a South Sea director was thought
to be synonymous with every specie.s of fraud an.d
villany. Petitions from counties, cities, and ~
roughs, in all parts ofthe \ingdom, were presented,
crying for the justice due to an injured nation
and the punishment of tbe villanous peculators.
Those moderate men, who would not go to ex-
treme lengths1 even in the punishment of the
guilty, were accused of being accomplices, were ex-
posed to repeated insults and virule.n~ i.nvectives,
and devoted, both in anonymous letters and public
writings, to the speedy vengeance of an injured
people. The accusations against Mr. Aislabie,
Chancellor of the Exchequer, and Mr. Craggs,
another member of the ministry, were so loud, that
the House of Lords resolved to proceed at once
into the investigation concerning them. It was
ordered, on the 21st of January, that all brokers
concerned ip the South Sea scheme should lay be-
fore the House an account ofthe stock or subscrip-
tions bought or sold by them for any ofthe officers
.Gf the Treasury or Exchequer, or in trust for any
of them, ~ince Michaelmas 1719. When this ac-
count w·as delivered, it appeared that large quan-
}~ TilE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
tities of stock had been transferred to the use of
Mr. Aislabie. Five of the South Sea directors, in-
cluding Mr. Edward Gibbon, the grandfather ofthe
celebrated historian, were ordered into the custody
of the black rod. Upon a motion made by Earl
Stanhope, it was unanimously resolved, that the
taking in or giving credit for stock without a valu-
able consideration actually paid or sufficiently B«>
cured; or the purchasing stock by any director or
agent of the South Sea Company, for the use or
benefit of any member of the administration, or
any member of either House of Parliament, during
such time as the South Sea Bill was yet pending in
Parliament, was a notorious and dangerous corrup-
tion.· Another resolution was passed a few. days
afterwards, to the effect that several of the direc-
tors and officers of the Company having, in a clan•
destine manner, sold their own stock to the Com-
pany, had been guilty of a notorious fraud and
breach of trust, and had thereby mainly caused the
unhappy turn of affairs that had so much affected
public credit. Mr. Aislabie resigned his office as
Chancellor of the Exchequer, and absented himself
from Parliament untiJ the formal inquiry into his
individual guilt was brought under the considera-
tion ofthe Legislature.
In the mean time, Knight, the treasurer of the
Company, and who was intrusted with aJl the dan-
gerous secrets of the dishonest directors, packed
up his books and documents, and made his escape
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 121
from the country. He embarked in disguise, in a
small boat on the river, and proceeding to a vessel
hired for the purpose, was safely conveyed to Ca..
lais. The Committee of Secrecy informed the House
of the circumstance, when it was resolved unani-
mously that two addresses should be presented to
the King ; the first praying that he would issue
a proclamation, offering a reward for the appre-
hension of Knight ; and the second, that he would
give immediate orders to stop the ports, and to
take effectual care of the coasts, to prevent the
said Knight, or any other officers of the South Sea
Company, from escaping out of the kingdom. The
ink was hardly dry upon these addresses before
they were carried to the King by Mr. Methuen,
deputed by the House for that purpose. The same
evening a royal proclamation was issued, offering
a reward of two thousand po~nds for the appl'e-
hension of Knight. The Commons ordered the
doors of the House to be locked, and the keys to
be placed upon the table. General Ross, one of
the members of the Committee of Secrecy, ac-
quainted them that they had already discovered
a train of the deepest villany and fraud that
Hell bad ever contrived to ruin a nation, which
in due time they would lay before the House. In
the mean time, in order to a further discovery, the
Committee thought it highly necessary to secure
the persons of some of the directors and princi-
pal South Sea officers, and to seize their papers.
128 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
A motion to this effect having been made, was
carried unanimously. Sir Robert Chaplin, Sir
f Theodore Janssen,. Mr. Sawbridge, and Mr. F.
Eyles, members of the House, and directors of the
.South Sea Company, were summoned to appear
in their places, and answer for their corrupt prac-
tices. Sir Theodore Janssen and Mr. Sawbridge
answered to their names, and endeavoured to ex-
culpate themselves. The House heard them pa-
tiently, and then ordered them to withdraw. A
motion was then made, and carried n£ntine CO'IItra-
dicente, that they bod been guilty of a notorious
breach of trust-bad occasioned much loss to great
.numbers of his Majesty's subjects, and bad highly
.prejudiced the public credit. It was then ordered
that, for their offence, they should be expelled the
House, and taken into the custody of the sergeant-
.at-arms. Sir Robert Chaplin and Mr. Eyles. at-
tending in their places four d~ys afterwards, were
also expelled the House. .It was resolved at the
same time to address the King, to give directions
to his ministers at foreign courts to make appli-
cation for Knight, that he might be delivered up
to the English authorities, in case he took refuge
in any of their dominions. The King at once
agreed, and messengers were despatched to all
parts of the Continent the same night.
Among the directors taken into custody, was Sir
John Blunt, the man whom popular opinion bas
generally accused of having been the original au-
TRE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. liS
thor and father of the scheme. This man, we are
informed by Pope, in. his epistle to Allen, Lord
Bathurst, was a .dissenter, of a most religious de-
portment, and professed to be a great believer.
He constantly declaimed against the luxury and
corruption of the age, the partiality of parliaments,
and the misery of party spirit. He was particu-
larly eloquent against avarice in great and noble
persons. He was originally a scrivener, and after-
wards became, not only a director, but the most
active manager of the South Sea Company. Whe-
ther it was during his careet in this capacity that
he first began to declaim against the avarice of
the great, we are not inrormed. He certainly must
have seen enough of it to justify his sev.erest ana-
thema ; but if the preacher bad himself been free
from the vice he condemned, his declamations would
have had a better effect. He was brought up in
custody to the bar of the House of Lords, and
underwent a long examination. He refused to
answer several important questions. He said he
had been examined already by a committee of the
House of Commons, and as he did not remember
his answers, and might contradict himself, be re-
fused to answer before another tribunal. This
declaration, in itself an indirect proof of guilt,
occasioned some commotion in the House. ' He was
again asked peremptorily whether he had ever sold
any portion of the stock to any member of the
administration, or any member of either House of
12• . THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.·
Parliament, to facilitate the passing of the bill.
He again declined to answer. He was anxious, he
said, to treat the House -with aU possible respect,
but he thought it hard to be compelled to accuse
himself. After several ineffectual attempts to re-
fresh his memory, he was directed to withdraw.
A violent discussion ensued between the friends and
opponents of the ministry. It was asserted that
the administration were no strangers to the conve-
nient taciturnity of Sir John Blunt. The Duke of
Wharton made a reflection upon the Earl Stan-
hope, which the latter warmly resented. He spoke
under great excitement, and with such vehemence
as to cause a sudden determination of blood to
the head. He felt himself so ill that he was
obliged to leave the House and retire to his cham-
ber. He was cupped immediately, and also let
blood on the folJowing morning, but with slight
relief. The fatal result was not anticipated. To-
wards evening he became drowsy, and turning
himself on his face, expired. The sudden death
of this statesman caused great grief to the nation.
George I. was exceedingly affeeted, and shut him-
self up·for some hours in his closet, inconsolable
for his loss.
Knight, the treasurer of the company, was ap-
prehended at Tirlemont, near Liege, by one of
the secretaries of Mr. Leathes, the British resident
at Brussels, and lodged in the citadel of Antwerp.
Repeated applications were made to the court of
'I
I
. THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 1.25
Austria to deliver him up, but in vain. Knight
threw himself upon the protection of the states
of Brabant, and demanded to be tried in that
country. It was a privilege granted to the states
of Brabant by one of the articles of the Joyeuse
Entree., that every criminal apprehended in .that
country should be .tried in that country. .The
states insisted on their privilege, and refused to
deliver Knight to the British authorities. The
latter did not cease their solicitations ; but in.the
mean time, Knight escaped from the citadel.
On the 16th of February the Committee of
Secrecy made their first report to the House. They
stated that their inquiry had been attended with
numerous difficulties and embarrassments; every
one they had examined had endeavoured, as far
as in him lay, to defeat the ends of justice. In
some of the books produced before them, false and
fictitious entries had been made ; in others, there
were entries of money, with blanks for the name
of the stoc\holders. There were frequent erasures
and alterations, and in some of the books lea\·es
were torn out. They also found that some books
of great importance bad been destroyed altogether,
and that some had been taken away or secreted.
At the very entrance ·into their inquiry, they had
observed that the matters referred to them were
of great variety and extent. Many persons had
.been intrusted with various parts in the execution
._of the law, and under colour thereof bad acted
126 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
in an unwarrantable manner, in disposing of the
properties of many thousands of persons, amount-
ing to many millions of money. They discovered
that, before the South Sea Act was passed, there
was an entry in the Company's books of the sum
of l,il59,S251, upon account of stock stated to have
been sold to the amount of 574.,5001. This stock
was all fictitious, and had been disposed of with
a view to promote the passing of the bill. It was
noted as sold at various days, and at various price&:o
from 150 to 825 per cent. Being surprised to see
so large an account disposed of, at a time when the
Company were not empowered to increase their ca-
pital, the committee detennined to investigate most
carefully the whole transaction. The gov.ernor,
sub-governor, and several directors were brought
before them, and examined rigidly. They found
that, at the time these entries were made, the Com-
pany was not in possession of such a quantity of
stock, having in their.own r~ght only a small quan-
tity, not exceeding thirty thousand pounds at the
utmost. Pursuing the inquiry, they found that
this amount of stock, was to be esteemed as taken
in or holden by the Company, for the b~nefit of the
.pretended purchasers, although no mutual agree-
ment was made for its delivery or acceptance at
any certain time. No money was paid down,
nor any deposit or security whatever given to the
Company by the supposed purchasers; so that if
the stock had £ 11 . h
a en, as m1g t have been expected,
' l \ \ t
,
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. lt'1
bad the act not passed, they would have sustained·
no loss. If, on the contrary, the plice of stock
advanced (aa it actually did by the success of the
scheme), the difFerence by the advanced price was
to be made good to them. Accordingly, aftel'
the pasaing of the act, the account of stock was
made up and adjusted with Mr. Knight, and the
pretended purchasers were paid the difference out
ofthe Company's cash. This fictitious atock, which
had been chiefly at the disposal of Sir John Blunt,
Mr.Gibbon, and Mr. Knight, was distributed among
several members of the government and their con-
nexions, by way of bribe, to facilitate the passing
of the bill. To the Earl of Sunderland was as-
signed 50,0001. of this stock ; to the Duchess of
Kendal10,000/; to the Countess of Platen 10,000/;
to her two nieces 10,000/; to Mr. Secretary Craggs
so,ooot; to Mr. Charles Stanhope (one of the Se-
cretaries of the Treasury) 10,0001; to the Sword-
blade Company 60,000/. It also appeared that
Mr. Stanhope had received -the enormous sum of
250,000l. as the differen~e in the price of some
stock, through the hands of Turner, Caswall, and
Co., but that his name bad been partly erased from
their books, and altered to Stangape. Aislabie,
the Chaneellor of-the Exchequer, had made pro-
fits still more abominable. He had an account
with the same firm, who were also South Sea di-
rectors, to the amount of 794,4511. He had, be-
sides, advised the Company to .make their second
'Its THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
subscription one million and a half, instead of a
million, by their own authority, and without any
warrant. The third subscription had been con-
ducted in a manner as disgracefuL Mr. Aislabie's
name was down for 70,0001; Mr. Craggs, senior. for
659,0001; the Earl of Sunderland's for 160,000/;
and Mr. Stanhope for 47,000/. This report was
succeeded by six others, less important. At the
end of the last, the committee declared that the
absence of Knight, who had been principally in-
trusted, prevented them from carrying on their
inquiries.
The first report was ordered to be printed, and
taken into consideration .on the next day but one
succeeding. After a very angry and animated de-
bate, a series of resolutions were agreed to, con-
demnatory of the conduct of the directors, of the
members of the Parliament and of the administra-
tion concerned with them ; and declaring that they
ought, each and all, to make satisfaction out of
their own estates for the injury they had done the
public. Their practices _were declared to be cor-
rupt, infamous, and dangerous; and a bill was
ordered to be brought in for the relief of the
unhappy sufferers.
Mr.Charles Stanhope was the first person brought
to account for his share in these transactions. He
urged in his defence that, for some years past,
be had lodged all the money he was possessed of
in Mr. Knight's hands, and whatever stock Mr.
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 11,
Knight bad taken io for him, he had paid a va-
luable consideration for it. As to the stock that
had been bought for him by Turner, Caswall.
aDd Co. he knew nothing about it. Whatever
had been done in that matter was done without
his authority, and be could not be responsible for
it. Turner and Co. took the latter charge upon
themBelvea, but.it was notorious to every unbiaased
and uuprejudiced person that ,Mr. Stanhope was a
gainer of the 250,0001. which lay in the bands of
that firm to his credit. He was, however, acquitted
by a majority of three only. The greatest exertions
were made. to screen him. Lord Stanhope, the
son of the.Earl of Chesterfield, went round to the
wavering members, using all the eloquence he waa
posseSBed of to induce them either to vote for
the acquittal or to absent themselves from the
house. Many weak-headed country-gentlemen were
led astray by his persuasions, an4 the result was
a.a already stated. The acquittal ca~sed the great-
est· discontent throughout the country. Mobs of
~ menacing cbuacter assembled in different parts
of London; fears of riots were generany· enter-
tained,. especially as the examination of a still
greater delinquent was expected by many to have
a similar termination. Mr. Aislabie, whos.e high
office and deep responsibilities should have kept
him honest; ev:en had native principle been in-
sufficient,. was very justly regarded as perhaps the
gr~teat criminal of al1. His case was entered into
VOL. I.
180 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
·on the day succeeding the acquittal of Mr. Stan-
hope. Great excitement prevailed, and the lobbies
and avenues of the house were beset by crowds,
impatient to know the result. The debate lasted
the whole day. Mr. Aislabie found few friends:
his guilt was so apparent and so ·heinous that
nobody had courage to stand up in his favour.
It was finally resolved; without a dissentient voice,
that Mr. Aislabie had encouraged and pr-omoted
the destructive execution of the South Sea scheme
with a view to his ·own exorbitant profit, and had
combined with the directors in their pernicious
practices to the ruin of the public trade and cre-
dit of the kingdom : that he should for his of-
fences be ignominiously· expelled from the House
of Commons, and committed a close prisoner to
the Tower of London; that he should be restrained
from going out of the kingdom for a whole year,
or till the end of the next session of Parliament ;
·and that he should make out a· correct account
of all his estate, in order that it might be applied
to the.relief of those who had suffered by his mal-
practices.
This verdict caused the greatest joy. Though
it .was delivered at half-past twelve at night, it
soon spread over the city. · Several persons illu-
minated their houses in token of their joy. On
the following day, when Mr. Aislabie was conveyed
to the Tower, the mob assembled on Tower-hill
with the intention of hooting and pelting him.
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. l:U
Not succeeding in ·this; they kindled a large bon-
fire, and danced around it in the exuberance of
their delight. Several bonfires were made in other
places ; London presented the appearance of a
holiday, and people congratulated one another as
·if they had just escaped from some great cala-
mity. The rage upon the acquittal of Mr. Stan-
hope bad grown _
to such a height that none could
tell where it would have end~d, had Mr. Aislabie
met with the like indulgence.
To increase the public satisfaction, Sir George
.Caswall, of the firm of Turner, Caswall, & Co. was
expe1led the House on the following day, and
ordered to refund the sum of250,0001.
_ That part of the report of the Committee of Se-
crecy which related to the Earl of Sunderland was
next taken into consideration. Every effort was
made to' clear his Lordship from the imputation.
As the case against him rested chiefly on the evi-
dence extc;»rted from· Sir John Blunt, great pains
were taken to make it appear that Sir John's word
was not to be believed, especially in a matter af-
fecting the. honour of a peer and privy councillor.
All the friends of the ministry rallied around tbe
Earl, it being generally reported that a verdict of
guilty· against him would bring a Tory ministry
into power. He was eventually acquitted, by ·a
majonty of 238 against 172 ; but the country was
'convinced of his guilt. The greatest indignation
was everywhere expressed, and menacing mobs
Kfl
181 THE SOUTH S:&A BUBBLB.
again assembled in London. Happily no disturh-
ances took place.
This was the day on which Mr. Crag~_the elder.
expired. The morrow had beeQ appointed for the
consideration of his cue. It was very generally
believed that be had poisoned himself. · It appear-
ed, however, that grief for the loss of his son, one
of the Secretaries of the Treasury, who had died
five weeks previously of the amall.pox, preyed much
on his mind. For this son, dearly beloved, he had
been amassing vaat heapa of riches : .he had been
getting money, but not honestly ; and he for whose
sake he had bartered his honour and .sullied his
fame, was now no more. The d.read of further ex.
posure increased his trouble of mind, and ultimately
brQught on an apoplectic fit, ill which he expired.
He left a. fortune of a million and a half', which
was afterwards confiscated, for the benefit of the
sufferers by the unhappy delusion. he. had been so
mainly instrumental in raising.
One by one the case of every director of the
Company was taken into consideration. A sum
amounting to. two millions and fourteen thousand
pounds was confiscated from thei-r estates towar.Q!l
:repairing the mischief they bad dQne, each man
being allowed a certain residue, in proportion to
his conduct and circumstances, with which be might
begin the world anew. Sir John Blunt was only
allowed 5,000/. out of his fortune of upwards of
188,0001.; Sir John Fellow& was allowed 10,0001.
TBE SOUTH 8&4 BUBBLE. W
out of i48,000J.; Sir Theodore Jan98en, 50,0001.
out of 24S,OOOI. ; Mr. Edward Gibbon, 10,000/.
out of 106,000/.; Sir John La1nbert, 50001. out of
7i,OOO/. Others, lesa deeply involved, were treated
with greater liberality. Gibbon, the historian,
whose grandfather was the Mr. Edward Gibbon
ao severely mulcted, has given, io the Memoirs of
his Life and Writings, an interesting account of
the proceedi~ in Parliament at this time. He
owns that he is not an unprejudiced witness ; but,
as all the writers from which. it is possible to ex-
tract any notice of the proceedings of these dis-
astrous years, were prejudiced on the other side,
the statement. of the great historian become of ad-
ditional value. H only on the principle of audi
alleram partem, his opinion is entitled to considera--
tion. u In the yoar 1716," he says, u my grand-
father was elected one of the directors of the South
Sea Company, and his books exhibited the proof
that before his acceptance of that fatal office, be
had acquired an independent fortune of 60,000/.
But his fortuae wu oTerwhelmed in the shipwreck
of the y.ear twenty, and the labours of thirty years
'Wel'e blasted in a single day. Of the use or abuse
ofthe South Sea scheme, of the guilt or innocence
of my grandfather and his brother directors, I am
neither a competent nor a disinterested judge. Yet
the equity of modern times must condemn the vio+
len.t and arbitrary proceedings, which would have
disgraced the cause of ju&tice, and rendered in•
< '' I
134 THE SOUTH SI·:A BUBBL~.
justice still more odious. No sooner had the nation
awakened from its golden dream, than a popular,
and even a Parliamentary clamour, demanded its
victims; hut it was acknowledged on all sides, that
the directors, however guilty, could not be touched
by any known laws of the land. The intemperate
notions ofLord Molesworth were not literally acted
on ; but a bilJ of paiM and penalties was intro-
duced-a retro-active statute, to punish the offences
which did not exist at the time they were com-
mitted. The Legis~ture restrained the persons of
the directors, imposed an exorbitant security for
their appearance, and marked their character with
a pre,·ious note ofignominy. They were compelled
to deliver, upon oath, th.e strict value of their
estates, and were disabled from making any trans-
fer or alienation of any part of their property.
Against a bi1J of pains and penalties, it is the com-
mon right of every subject to be heard by his
counsel at the bar. They prayed to be beard.
Their prayer was refused, and their oppressors1
who required no evidence, would listen to no de·-
fence. It had been at first prQposed, that one-
eighth of their respective estates should be allowed
for the future support of the directors ; but it was
speciously urged, that in the various shades of opu-
lence and guilt,. such a proportion would be toO
light for many, and for some might possibly be
too heavy. The character and, conduct of each
man were separately weighed; but,: instead of th.e
(1 'I .
I
THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE. 135
calm solemnity of a judicia] inquiry, the fortune
and honour of thirty-three Englishmen were made
the topics of hasty conversation, the sport of a law~
less majority; and the basest member of the com-
mittee, by a malicious :word, or a silent vote, might
indulge his general spleen or personal animosity.
Injury was aggravated by insult, and insult was
embittered by pleasantry. Allowances of 20/. or
'ls. were facetiously moved. A vague report that
·a director had formerly been concerned in another
project, by which some unknown persons bad.lost
their money, was admitted as a proof of his actual
guilt. One mail was ruined because he had dropped
a foolish speech, that his horses should feed ·upon
gold; another, because he was grown so proud,
that one day, at the Treasury, he had refused a civil
answer to persons much above him. All were con-
demned, absent and unheard, in arbitrary fines and
forfeitures, which swept away the greatest part of
their substance. Such bold oppression can scarcely
be shielded by the omnipotence ofParliament. My
grandfather could not expect to be· treated with
more lenity than his companions. His Tory prin-
ciples and connexions rendered him.obnoxious .to
the ruling powers. His name was reported in a
suspicious secret. His well-known abilities could
not plead the excuse of ignorance or error. In the
first proceedings against the South Sea directors,
Mr. Gibbon wa~ one of the first taken into custody,
and in the final sentence the measure of his fine
1J6 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLB.
proclaimed him eminently guilty. The total ,eJti..
mate, which he delivered on oath to ~he House of
Commons, amounted to 106,548/. &. 6d., m;eluai~e
ofantecedent tettlementa. Two different allowaneea
of15,0001. and of 10,0001. were moved for Mr. Gib-
bon ; but, on the question being put, it ·was-earned
without a division for th~ smaller sum. On theae
ruins, with the skill and ctedit of which Parliament
had not been able to despoil him, my grandfathu,
at a mature age, erected tbe edifice of a new ler-
tune. The labours of sixteen yeart were a~ly
rewarded ; and I have reason to believe that the
second structure was not much inferior to tile
mat."
The next consideration of tbe Legislature, .rter
the pumishment,of tiledirectors, waa·to f'estere puO.
lie credit. Th.e scheme ofWalpole had been fMlnd
insufficient, and had falle11 into disrepute. A com~
putation was made of the whole capital atiOck er
the S'outh Sea Company at the end of 'the 'j'eat
1720. It was found to amount to thirty-&e.en m'W-
Iioas eight bundrell tho\lsan• potmds, of wh\icll tke
stock allotted to all the proprietM's only ammmt-
ed to -
twenty-four millions iive hundred thoilsaUd
pounds. The remainder of tbirte·en mjllipns three
hun<hed thousand pounds belonged to dre CompllDY
i11 their corporate capacity, Mld was the pr&fit they
hadmade bythe D&ticmal delusion. Upwardsofeight
millions of this were taken .from the Company, a111cl
divided among the proprietors and subseribore :ge-
THE SOUTH S&A BUBBLE. I8T
nerally, making 21 di~idend of about :88/. .&. Sd.
per cent. This was a great relief. It was further
ordered, that 'a•ch persons 88.had borrowed mooey
from the South Sea Company upon stock actually
transferred uci pled~d at the time of borrowing
to or for the use of the Company, should be free
from all demands, upon payment ,of ten per cent. of
the aums so borrowed. They had tent about elefto
millions in this matmer, at a time when prices were
unnaturally raised ; and they now received back
one mil.liou one hundred thousand, when price•
had sunk to their ordiuvy level.
But it was a long time before public et>edit w.._
thoroughly restored. Enterprise, like I-carus, had
soared too high, and melted the wax of her wings ;
like Icarus, she had fallen into a sea, and learned,
while floundering in its waves, that her proper ele-
ment was the solid ground. She has never since
attempted so high a Hight.
In times .of great commercial prosperity there
has been a tendency to over-speculation on several
occasions since then. The success of one project
generally produces others of a similar kind. Popu-
lar imitativeness will always, in a trading nation,
seize hold of such successes, and drag a community
too anxious for profits into an abyss from which ex-
trication is difficult. Bubble companies, of a kind
similar to those engendered by the South Sea pro-
ject, lived their little day in the famous year of
the panic, 1825. On that occasion, as in 1720,
< '' I
] S8 THE SOUTH SEA BUBBLE.
knavery gathered a rich harvest from cupidity, but
both suffered when the day of reckoning came.
The scbemes of the year 1856 threatened, at one
time, results as disastrous; but they were happily
averted before it was too late. The South Sea
project thus remains, and, it is to be hoped, always
'will remain, the greatest example in British his-
tory, of the infatuation ofthe people for commercial
gambling. From the bitter experience of that
period, posterity may learn how dangerous it is to
let speculation riot unrestrained, and to hojle for
enormous profits from inadequate causes. De-
grading as were the circumstances, there is wisdom
to he gained from the lesson which they teach.
189
THE TULIPOMANIA.
Quia furor ociTe& 1-Luc..ut.
THE tulip,-so named, it is said, from a Turkish
word, signifying a turban,-was introduced into
western Europe about the middle of the sixteenth
<:entury. Conrad Gesner, who claims the merit
of having brought it into repute,- little dreaming
of the extraordinary commotion it was to make in
the world,-says that he first saw it in the year
1559, in a garden at Augsburg, belonging to the
1earn~d Counsellor Herwart, a man very famous in
his day for .his collection of rare .exotics. The
bulbs were sent to this gentleman by a friend at
Constantinople, where the flower had long been
a favourite. In the course of ten or eleven years
after this period, tulips were much sought after by
the wealthy, especially in Holland and Germany.
Rich people at Amsterdam sent for the bulbs direct
to Constantinople, and paid the most extravagant
prices for them. The first roots planted in Eng-
land were brought from Vienna in 1600. Until
the year 16S4 the tulip annually increased in re-
140 THE TULIPOMANIA.
potation, until it was deemed a proof of bad taste
in any man of fortune to be without a collection
of them. Many learned men, including Pompeius
de Angelis and the celebrated Lipsius of Ley-
den, the author of the treatise " De Constantia.,,
were passionately fond of tulips. The rage for
possessing them soon caught the middle classes of
society, and merchants and shopkeepers, even of
moderate means, began to vie with each other in
the rarity of these flowers and the preposterous
prices they paid for them. A trader at Harlaem
was known to pay one-half of his fortune for a
single root-not with the design of selling it ag.aiD
at a profit, but to keep in his own conserv.atory
for the admiration ofhis acquaintance.
One would suppose that there must have been
some great virtue in this flower to have made it
ao valuable in the eyes of so prudent a people
as the Dutch; but it bas neither the beauty nor
the perfume of tbe rose-hardly the beauty of the
" sweet, sweet-pea ;" neither is it as ~nduring aa
either. Cowley, it is true, is loud in its praise;
He says--
... The tulip next appeared, all over gay,
But wanton, full of pride, and full of play ;
The world can't show a dye but he~e has place;
Nay, by new mixtures, she can change her face;
Pwple and gold are both beneath her care-
The richest needlework she loves to wear ;
Her only study is to please the eye,
And to outsil..irle the .rest in inery.t'
THB TULIPOMANI.&. 141
This,. though not very poetie&J, is the description
of a poet. Beckmann, in hii History of Invexr.
tions, paints it with more Jidelity, and in prose
lDOJ'e pleasing than Cowley's poetry. He says,
~< There are few plants which acquire, through ac-
cident, weakness, or disease, s.o many variegations
as the tulip. When·uncultivated, and in its natu-
ral state, it is almost of one colour, has large
leaves, and an extraordinarily long stem. When
it bas 'been weakened by cultivation, it becomes
more agreeable in the eyes Qi the florist.. The
petals are then paler, smaller, and more diversi-
ft.ed in hue; and the leaves acquire a. softer green
eolour. ThO..this masterpiece of culture, the more
beautiful it turns, grows so much the weaker, so
that, with the greatest skill and most careful at-
tentitm, it can acatcely be traosplanted, or even
keptaliv~"
Many persons grow insensibly attached to that
which gives· them a great deal of trouble. as a
moiber often loves her sick and ever-ailing child
better than her more healthy offspring. Upon the
same principle we must account for th~ unmerited
encomia lavished upon these fragile blo~tsoms.. In:
16S,, tlie rage among the Dutch to possess them
waa so great · that the ordinary industry of the.
eoulltry was- neglected~ and the population, even
to its laweat dregs, eml>arked in the tulip trade.
As the mania increased, prices augmented, until,
in the year 1685, many persons were known to
14! THE TULIPOMANU..
invest a fortune of 100,000 florins in the piuch&Se
of forty roots. It then became necessary to sell
them by their weight in perits, a small weight less
than a grain. A tulip.of the species called Admiral
Liefken, weighing 400 periu, was worth ~u.oo flo-
rins; an Admiral Von der Eyk, weighing 446 perils,
was worth 1260 florins; a 1hilder of 106 perils was
worth 1615 florins; a vicero!J of 400 perits~ SOOO
florins, and, most precious of all, a &mper AuguR-
tus, weighing 200 perils, was thought to be very
cheap at 5500 florins. Tbe latter was much sought
after, and even an inferior bulb might command
a price of 2000 florins. It is related that, at
one time, early in 16S6, there were only two·roots
of this description to be had in all Holland~
and·those not of the best. One was in the pos-
session of a dealer in Amsterdam, and the other
in Harlaem. So anxious were the speculators to
obtain them that one person ofFered the fee-simple
of twelve acres of building ground for the Har1aem
tulip. That of Amsterdam was bought for 4600
florins, a new carriage, two grey horses, and a
complete suit of harness. Munting, an industrious
author of that day, who wrote a folio volume of
one thousand pages upon the tulipomania, has pre-
served the following list of the various articles, and
their value, which were delivered for one single
root of the rare species called the vicero!J :-
THE TULIPONANIA. 14S
Sori!ll.
Two lasts of wheat 448
Four lasts ofrye • 658
Four fat oxen · ~so
Eight fat swine . 24.0
Twelve fat sheep 120
Two hogsheads ofwine 70
Four tuna of beer sz
Two tone of butter 19~
One thousand lbe. of cheeae ao
A complete bed 100
A suit ofclothes 80
A ailver drinking cup 60
!600
People who bad been absent from Ho1Jand, and
whose chance it was to return when this folly was
at its maximum, were sometimes led into awkward
dilemmas by their ignorance. There is an amus-
ing instance of the kind related in Blainville's
Travels. A wealthy merchant, who prided him-
self not a little on his rare tulips, received upon
one occasion a very valuable consignment of mer-
chandise from the Levant. Intelligence of its ar-
Tival was brought him by a sailor, who presented
himself for that purpose at the counting-house,
among bales of goods of every description. The
merchant, to reward him for his news, munificently
made him a present of a fine red herring for his
-breakfast. The sailor had, it appears, a great
partiality for onions, and seeing a bulb vqy like
an onion lying upon the counter of thls liberal
trader, and thinking it, no doubt, very much out
144 THE TULIPOMANIA.
of its plaee among silks and velvets, he slily seized
an opportunity and slipped it into his pocket, as
a relish for his herring. He got dear off with his
prize, and proceeded to the quay to eat his break-
fast. Hardly was his back turned when the mer-
chant missed his valuable Semper Augustus, worth
three thousand fiorinsr or about 2801. sterling.
The whole establi!!hment was instantly in an up-
roar ; search was everywhere made for the pre-
cious root, but it was not to be found. Great
was the merchant's distress of mind. The search
was renewed, but again without success. At last
some one.. thought of the sailor.
The unhappy merchant sprang into the street a.t
the bare. suggestion. His·alarmed h&usehold fol-
lowed him. The sailor, simple saul ! had not.
thought of concealment, He was found quietly
sitting on a coil of ropes, masticating the last mor-
sel of his. "Oflion... Little did he dream that he
had been eating a breakfast whose cost might have
regaled a whele ship~s crew for a twelvemonth; or.
as t.he plunder~ merchant himael£ expressed it.
" might have sumptuously feaateq the Prince of
Orange and the whole court of the Stadtholder."
Anthony caused pearls to be dissolved.in wine· to
drink·the health of Cleopatra ; Sir Rie:ha.rd Whit-
tington was as foolishly magnificent in an enter-
tainment to.King Henry V; and Sir Thomas Gr-es-
ham drank a diQ.mond,. dissolved in wine, to the
health of Queen Elizabeth, when she opened tho
THE TULIPOMANIA. U5
Royal Exchange : but the breakfast of this roguish
Dutchman was as splendid as either. He had an
advantage, too, over his wasteful predecessors :
their gems did not improve the taste or the whole-
someness of their wine, while hu tulip was quite
delicious with his red herring. The most unfor-
tunate part of the business for him was, that he re-
mained in prison for some months, on a charge of
felony, preferred against him by the merchant.
Another story is told of an ~nglish traveller,
which is scarcely less ludicrous. This gentleman,
an amateur botanist, happened to see a tulip-root
lying in the conservatory of a wealthy Dutchman.
Being ignorant of its quality, he took out his pen-
knife, and peeled off its coats, with the view of
making experiments upon it. When it was by this
means reduced to half its original size, he cut it
into two equal sections, making all the time many
learned remarks on the singular appearances of
the unknown bulb. Suddenly the owner pounced
upon him, and, with fury in his eyes, asked him
if he knew what he had been doing ? " Peeling a
most extraordinary onion," replied the philosopher.
" Hundert tausend duyveJ," said the Dutchman;
Hit's an Admiral Van der Eyck." " Thank you,"
replied the traveller, taking out his note-book to
make a memorandum of the same ; " are these ad-
mirals common in your country T' " Death and the
devil," said the Dutchman, seizing the astonished,
man of science by the collar ; " come before the
VOL. 1, L
146 THE TULIPOMANIA.
syndic, and you shall see." In spite ofhis remon-
strances, the traveller was led through the streets,
followed by a mob ofpersons. When brought into
the presence of the magistrate, he learned, to his
consternation, that the root upon which he had
been experimentalizing was worth four thousand
florins ; and, notwithstanding all he could urge in
extenuation, he was lodged in prison until he found
securities for the payment of this sum.
The dema~d for tulips ofa rare species increased
so much in the year 1636, that regular marts for
their sale were established on the Stock Exchange
of Amsterdam, in Rotterdam, Harlaem, Leyden,
Alkmar, Hoorn, and other towns. Symptoms of
gambling nt>w became, for the first time, apparent.
The stockjobbers, ever on the alert for a new spe-
culation, dealt largely in tulips, making use of all
the means they so well knew how to employ, to
cause fluctuations in price.
s. At first, as in all these
gambling mania, confidence was at its height, and
everybody gained. The tulip-jobbers speculated
in the rise and fall of the tulip stocks, and made
l-arge profits by buying when prices fell, and·se11ing
out when they rose. Many individuals grew sud-
denly rich. A golden bait hung temptingly out
before the people, and, one after the other, they
rushed to the tulip marts, like flies around a honey-
pot. Every one imagined that the passion for
tulips would last for ever, and that the wealthy
from every part of the world would send to Hoi-
THE TULIPOMANIA. 147
land, and pay whatever prices were asked for them.
The riches of Europe would be concentrated on
the shores ofthe Zuyder Zee, and poverty banished
from the favoured clime of Holland. Nobles, citi-
zens, farmers, mechanics~ seamen, footmen, rnaid-
servants, even chimney-sweeps and old clothes-
women, dabbled in tulips. People of all grades
converted their property into _
cash, and invested i~
in flowers. Ho~ses and lands were offered for sale
at ruinously low prices, or ·assigned in payment·of
bargains made at the tulip~mart; Foreigners be-
came smitten · with the ·same frenzy, and money
pow-ed into Holland from all directions. The
pripes of the necessaries of life ro.se again by de-
greea; houses and lands, horses and carriages, and
luxuries ofevery sort, rose in value with them, and
for some months Holland seemed the very ante-
chamber of Plutu..s. The operations of the trade
became so extensive and so intricate, that it was
found necessary to draw up a code of laws for the
guidance of the dealers. Notaries and clerks were
also appointed, who devoted themselves exclusively
to the intereats of the trade. The designation of
public potary was hardly known in some towns,
that of tulip notary usurping its place. In the
smaller towns, where ther.e was no exchange, the
principal tavern was usually selec.ted as the " show-
place," where high and low traded in tulips, and
confirmed their·bargains over 11umptuous·~ntertJiin­
ments. These dinners were somethnes attend.ed by
L 2
148 THE TULIPOMANIA.
two or three hundred persona, and large vases of
tulips, in full bloom, were placed at regular inter-
vals upon the tables and sideboards, for their grati-
fication during the repast.
At last, however, the more prudent began to see
that this folly could not last for ever. Rich people
no longer bought the flowers to keep them in their
gardens, but to sell ~hem again at cent. per cent.
profit. It was seen that somebody must lose fear-
fully in the end. As this conviction spread, prices
fell, and never rose again. Confidence was de-
stroyed, and a universal panic seized upon the
dealers. A had agreed to purchase ten &mper1
Augustinet from B, atfour thousand florins each, at
six weeks after the signing of the contract. B was
ready with the flowers at the appointed time ; but
the price bad fallen to three or four hundred flo-
rins, and A refused either to pay the difference or
receive the tulips. Defaulters were announced day
after day in all the towns of Holland. Hundreds
who, a few months previously, had begun to doubt
that there was such a thing as poverty in the laud,
suddenly found themselves the possessors of a few
bulbs, which nobody would buy, even though they
offered them at one quarter of the sums they had
paid for them. The cry ofdistress resounded every-
where, and each man accused his neighbour. The
few who had contrived to enrich themselves hid
their wealth from the knowledge of their fellow-
citizens, and invested it in the English or other
THE TULlPOMANlA.. 149
funds. Many who, for a brief season, had emerged
from the bumbler walks of life, were cast back into
their original obscurity. Substantial ,merchants
were reduced almost to beggary, and many a re-
presenta~ive of a noble line saw the fortunes of his
bouse ruined beyond redemption.
When the first alarm subsided, the tulip-holders
in the several towns held public meetings to devise
what measures were best to be taken to restore
public credit. It was generally agreed, that depu-
ties should be sent from all parts to Amsterdam, to
cons.ult with the government upon some remedy
for the evil. The Government at first refused to
interfere, but advised the tulip-holders to agree to
some plan among themselves. Several meetings
were held for this purpose ; but no measure could
be devised likely to give satisfaction to the deluded
people, or repair even a slight portion of the mis-
chief that had been done. The language of com-
plaint and reproach was in everybody's mouth, and
all the meetings were of the most stormy character.
At last, however, after much bickering and iU-wiJI,
it was agreed, at Amsterdam, by the assembled de-
puties, that all contracts made in the height of the
mania, or prior to the month of November 1686,
should be declared null and void, and that, in those
made after that date, purchasers should be freed
from their engagements, on paying ten per cent. to
the vendor. This decision gave no satisfaction.
The vendors who had their tulips on hand were, of
150 THE TULJPOMANIA.
course, discontented, and those. who bad pledged
themselves to pur.chase, thought themselves hardly
treated. Tulips which had, at one time, been worth
six thousand florins, were now to be procured for
five hundred; so that the compoaition of ten per
cent. was one hundred ilorins more than the actual
value. Actions for breach of contract were threat-
ened in all the courts ofthe country; but the latter
refused to take cognizance of gambling transac-
tions.
The matter was finally referred to the Provincial
Council at the ~ague, and it was .confidently ex-
pected that the wisdom of this body would invent
some measure by which credit should be restored.
Expectation was on the stretch for its decision, but
it never came. The members continued to deli-
berate week after week, and at last, after thinking
about it fot three months, declared that they could
offer no final decision until they had more infor-
mation. They advised, however, that, in the mean
time, every vendor should, in the presence of wit-
nesses, offer the tulips in nalura to the purchaser
for the sums agreed upon. If the latter refused
to take them, they might be put up for sale by
public auction, and the original contractor held
responsible for the difference between the actual
-
and the stipulated price. This was exactly the
plan recommended by the deputies, and which was
already shown to be of no avail. There was no
court in Holland which would enforce payment.
THE TULlPOMANI.A. 151
The question was raised in Amsterdam, but the
judges unanimously refused to interfere, on the
ground that debts contracted in gambling were
no debts in law.
Thus the matter rested. To firid a remedy was
beyond the power of the government. Those who
were unlucky enough to have had stores of tulips
on hand at the time of the sudden reaction were
left .t~ bear their ruin as philosophically as they
could ; those who had made profits were allowed
to keep them ; but the commerce of the country
suffered a severe shock, from which it was many
years ere it recovered.
The example of the Dutch was imitated to some
extent in England. In the year 1636 tulips were
publicly sold in the_Exchange of London, and
the jobbers exerted themselves to the utmost to
raise them to the fictitious value they had acq~ired
in Amsterdam. In Paris also the jobbers strove
to create a tulipomania. In both cities they only
partially succeeded. However, the force of e.x-
aplple brought the flowers into great favour, and
amongst a certain class of people tulips have ever
since been prized more highly than any other flowers
ofthe field. The Dutch.are still notorious for their
partiality to them, and continue to pay higher
pri~es· for them than any other people. As the
rich Englishman boasts of his fine race-horses or
his old pictures, so does the wealthy Dutchman
vaunt him of his tulips.
15!4 THE TULlPOMANIA.
In England, in our day, strange as it may ap-
pear, a tulip will produce more money than an oak.
If one could be found, rara in terri8, and black
as the black swan alluded to by Juvenal, its price
would equal that of a dozen acres of standing corn.
In Scotland, towards the close of the seventeenth
century, the highest price for tulips, according to
the authority of a writer in the supplement to the
third edition of the " Encyclopedia Britannica,••
was ten guineas. Their value appears to have di-
minished from that time till the year 1769, when
the two most valuable species in England were the
Don Quevedo and the Valentinier, the former of
which was worth two guineas and the latter two
guineas and a half. These prices appear to have
been the minimum. In the year 1800, a common
price was fifteen guineas for a single bulb. In
1885, so foolish were the fanciers, that a bulb of
the species called the Miss Fanny Kemble was
sold by public auction in London for seventy-five
pounds. Still more astonishing was the price of
a tulip in the possession of a gardener in the
King's Road, Chelsea. In his catalogues, it was
labelled at two hundred guineas! Thus a fiower..
which for beauty .and perfume was surpassed by
the abundant roses of the garden,-a nosegay of
which might be purchased for a penny,- was priced
at a sum which would have provided an industri-
ous labourer and his family with food, and clothes,
and lodging for six years! Should chickweed
THE TULIPOMANIA. 153
and groundsel ever come into fashion, the wealthy
would, no doubt, vie with each other in adorning
their gardens with them, and paying the most
extravagant prices for them. In so doing, they
would hardly be more foolish than the admirers
of tulips. The common prices for these flowers at
the present time vary from five to fifteen guineas,
according to the rarity of the species.
154.
RELICS.
A fouth o' auld knick-lmacketa,
Rusty aim caps and jinglin' jacketa,
Wad baud the Lothian• three, in tacketa,
A towmond guid ;
All' parritch pats, and auld aut backeta,
Afore the 1lood.
Busm.
THE love for relics is one which will never be
eradicated as long as feeling and affection are deni-
zens of the heart. It is a love which is most easily
excited in the best and kindliest natures, and which
few are callous enough to scoff at. Who would
not treasure the lock of hair that once adorned the
brow of the faithful wife, now cold in death, or that
hung down the neck of a beloved infant, now sleep-
ing under the sward ? Not one. They are home-
relics, whose sacred worth is intelligible to all ;-
spoils rescued from the devouring grave, which, to
the affectionate, are beyond aU price. How dear
to a forlorn survivor the book over whose pages he
bas pored with one departed ! How much greater
its value, if that hand, now cold, had written a
thought, an opinion, or a name, upon the leaf!
Besides these sweet, domestic relics, there are
RELICS. 155
others, which no one can·condemn; ·.relics sanctified
by that admiration of greatness and goodness which
is akin to love ; such as the copy of Montaigne's
Florio, with the name of'Shakspeare upon the le~
written bythe poet ofall time himself; the chair pre-
served at Antwerp, in which Rubens sat when he
painted the immortal " Descent from the Cross;., or
the telescope, preserved in the Museum of Flo..
renee, which aided Galileo in his sublime discoveries.
Who would not look with veneration upon the
undoubted arrow of William Tell-the swords
of Wallace or of Hampden-or the Bible whose
leaves were turned by some stem old father of the
faith 1
Thus the principle of reliquism is hallowed and
emhrined by love. But from this germ of purity
how numerous the progeny of errors and super-
stitions ! Men, in their admiration of the great,
and of all that appertained to them, have·forgotten
that .goodness is a component' part. of'true great-
ness, and have made fools of t~einselves for the
jaw-bone of a saint, the toe-nail .of an apostle, the
handkerchief a,king blew his nose in, or the rope
that hanged a criminal. Desiring to rescue some
slight t~ken from the graves of their predecessors,
~hey have confounded the famous and the infamous,
the renowned .and the notorieus. Great saints,
great sinners; .great .philosophers, great quacks ;
great conquer.ors, gr.eat murderers; great minis-
ters, great thieves ; each and all have had their ad-
156 RELICS.
mirers, ready to ransack earth, from the equator to
either pole, to find a relic of them.
The reliquism of modem times dates its origin
from the centuries immediately preceding the Cru-
sades. The first pilgrims to the Holy Land brought
back to Europe thousands of apocryphal relics, in
the purchase of which they had expended all their
store. The greatest favourite was the wood of the
true cross, which, like the oil of the widow, never
diminished. It is generally asserted, in the tra-
ditions of the Romish Church, that the Empress
Helen, the mother of Constantine the Great, first
discovered the veritable " true croaa" in her pil-
grimage to Jerusalem. The Emperor Theodosius
made a present of the greater part of it to St. Am-
brose, Bishop of Milan, by whom it was studded
with precious stones, and deposited in the principal
church of that city. It was carried away by the
Huns, by whom it was burnt, after they bad
extracted the valuable jewels it contained. Frag-
ments, purporting to have been cut from it were,
in the eleventh and twelfth centuries, to be found
in almost every church in Europe, and would, if
collected together in one place, have been almost
sufficient to have built a cathedral. Happy was
the sinner who could get a sight of one of them ;
happier he who possessed one! To obtain them
the greatest dangers were cheerfully braved. They
were thought to preserve from all evils, and to
cure the most inveterate diseases. Annual pil-
RELICS. 161
grimages were made to the shrines that contained
them, and considerable revenues collected from the
devotees.
Next in renown were those precious relics, the
tears of the Saviour. By whom and in what man-
ner they were preserved, the pilgrims did not often
inquire. Their genuineness was vouched by the
Christians of the Holy Land, and that was suf.
ficient. Tears of the Virgin Mary, and tears of
St. Peter, were also to be had, carefully enclosed
in little caskets, which the pious might wear in
their bosoms. After the tears the next most pre-
cious relics were drops of the blood of Jesus and
the martyrs. Hair and toe-nails were also in
great repute, and were sold at extravagant prices.
Thousands of pilgrims annually visited Palestine
in the eleventh and twelfth centuries, to pur-
chase .pretended relics for the home market. The
majority of them had no other means of sub-
sistence than the profits thus obtained. Many a
nail, cut from the filthy foot of some unscru-
pulous ecclesiastic, was sold at a diamond's price,
within six months after its severance from its
parent toe, upon the supposition that it had once
belonged to a saint. Peter's toes were uncom-
monly prolific, for there were nails enough in
Europe, at the time of the Council of Clermont, to
have filled a sack, all of which were devoutly be-
lieved to have grown on the sacred feet of that
great apostle. Some of them are still shown in
158 RELICS.
the cathedral of Aix-la-Chapelle. The pious come
from a distance of a hundred German miles to feast
their eyes upon them.
At Port Royal, in Paris, is kept with great care
a thorn, which the priests of that seminary assert
to be one of the identical thorns that bound the
holy head of the Son of God. How it came there,
and by whom it was preserved, has never been ex-
plained. This is the famous thorn, celebrated in
the long dissensions of the Jansenists and the Mo-
lenists, and which worked the miraculous cure upon
Mademoiselle Perrier: by merely kissing it, she
was cured of a disease of the eyea of long stand-
ing.•
What traveller is unacquainted with the Santa
Scala, or Holy Stairs, at Ro~e 1 They were
brought from Jerusalem along with the true croas,
by the Empress Helen, and were taken from the
house which, according to popular tradition, was
inhabited by Pontius Pilate. They are said to be
the steps which Jesus ascendedand descended when
brought into the presence of the Roman governor.
They are held in the greatest veneration at Rome :
it is sacrilegious to walk upon them. The knees
of the faithful must alone touch them ia ascending
or descending, and that ODiy .after fJley have r~v.e­
rentially kissed t'hem. -
Europe still swarms with these religious relics.
There is hardly a Roman Catholic church in
• Voltaire, Siecle de Louis XIV.
RELlCS. 159
Spain, Portugal, Italy, France, or Belgium, with-
out one or more of them. Even the poorly en-
dowed churches of the villages boast the possession
of miraculous thigh~bones ofthe innumerable saints
of the Romish calendar. Aix-la-Chapelle is proud
of the veritable chd1se, or thigh-bone of Charle-
magne, which cures lameness. Halle baa a thigh..
bone ofthe Virgin Mary ; Spain has seven or eight,
all said to be undoubted relics. Brussels at one
time preserved, and perhaps does now, the teeth
of St. Gudule. The faithful, who suffer~d from the
tooth-ache, bad only to pray, look at them, and be
cured. Some ofthese holy bones have been buried
in different parts of the Continent. Aft·
er a cer-
tain lapse of time, water is said to ooze from
them, which soon forms a spring, and cures all
the diseases of the faithful. At a church in Halle,
there is a famous thigh-bone, which cures banen-
ness in women. Of this bone, which is under
the special superintendence of the Virgin, a plea•
sant story is related by the incredulous. There
resided at Ghent a couple who were blessed with
all the riches of this world, but whose happi-
ness was sore troubled by the want of children.
Great was the grief of the lady, who was both
beautiful and loving~ and many her lamentations
to her husband. The latter, annoyed by her un-
ceasing sorrow, advised her to make a pilgrimage
to the celebrated chbse of the Virgin. She went,
was absent a week, and returned with a face
160 RELICS.
all radiant with joy and pleasure. Her lamenta-
tions ceased, and, in nine months afterwards, she
brought forth a son. But, oh ! the instability of
human joys! The babe, so long desired and so
greatly beloved, survived but a few months. Two
years passed over the heads of the disconsolate
couple, and no second child appeared to cheer their
fire-side. A third year passed away with the same
result, and the lady once more began to weep.
l' Cheer up, my love," said her husband, "and go
to the holy chasse, at Halle ; perhaps the Virgin
will again listen to your prayers." The lady took
courage at the thought, wiped away her tears, and
proceeded onthe morrow towardsHalle. She was ab-
sent only three days, and returned home sad, weep-
ing, and sorrow-stricken. "What is the matter?"
said her husband ; ~e is the Virgin unwilling to listen
to your prayers?" "The Virgin is willing enough,..
said the disconsolate wife, "and will do what she
can for me ; but I shall never have any more chil-
dren J The priest ! the priest!-He is gone from
Halle, and nobody knows where to find him!"
It is eurious to remark the avidity manifested in
all ages, and in all countries, to obtain possession
of some relic of any persons who have been much
spoken of, even for their crimes. When William
Longbeard, leader of the populace of London, in
the reign of Richard I, was hanged at Smithfield,
the utmost eagerness was shown to obtain a hair
from his bead, or a shred from his garments.
l '
'
RELICS. 161
Women came from Essex, Kent, Suffolk, Sus-
sex, and all the surrounding counties, to collect
the mould at the foot of his gallows. A hair
of his beard was believed to preserve from evil
spirits, and a piece of his clothes from aches and
pains.
In more modem days, a similar avidity was shown
to obtain a relic of the luckless Masaniello, the
fisherman of Naples. After he had been raised by
mob favour to a height of power more despotic than
monarch ever wielded, he was shot by the same
populace in the streets, as if be had been a mad
dog. His headless trunk was dragged through the
mire for several hours, and cast at night:.fall into
the city ditch. On the morrow the tide of popular
feeling turned once more in his favour. His corpse
was sought, arrayed in royal robes, and buried mag-
nificently by torch-light in the cathedral, ten thou-
sand armed men, and as many mourners, attending
at the ceremony. The fisherman's dress wnich be
had worn was rent into shreds by the crowd, to be
preserved as relics ; the door of his hut was pulled
off its hinges by a mob of women, and eagerly cut
up into small pieces, to be made into images, cas-
kets, and other mementos. The scanty furniture
of his poor abode became of more value than the
adornments of a palace; the ground he had walked
upon was considered sacred, and, being c·ollected
in small phials, was sold at its weight in gold, and
worn in the bosom as an amulet.
VOL. I. M
162 RELICS.
Almost as extraordinary was the frenzy mani-
fested by the populace of Paris on the execution of
the atrocious Marchioness de Brinvilliers. There
were grounds for the popular wonder in. tbe case
of Masaniello, who was unstained with personal
crimes. But the career of Madame de Brinvilliers
was of a nature to excite no other feelings than dis-
gust and abhorrence. She was convicted ofpoison-
ing several persons, and sentenced to be burned in
the Place de Greve, and to have her ashes scat-
tered to the winds. On the day of her execution,
the populace, struck by her gracefulness and beanty,
inveighed against the severity of her .sentence.
Their pity soon increased to admiration, and, ere
evening, she was considered a saint. Her ashes
were industriously collected, even the charred wood,
which had aided to consume her, was eagerly pur-
chased by the populace. Her ashes were thought
to preserve from witchcraft.
In England many persons have a singular love
for the relics of thieves and murderers, or other
great criminals. The ropes with which they have
been banged are very often bought by collectors at
a guinea per foot. Great sums were paid for the
rope which hanged Dr. Dodd, and for those more
recently which did justice upon Mr. Fauntleroy fol'
forgery, and on Thurtell for the murder of Mr.
Weare. The murder of Maria Marten; by Corder,
in the year 1828_, excited the greatest interest all
RELICS. 168
over the country. People came from Wales and
Scotland, and even from Ireland, to visit the barn
where the body of the murdered woman was buried.
Every one of them was anxious to carry away some
memorial of his visit. Pieces of the barn-door,
tiles from the roof, and, above all, the clothes ofthe
poor victim, were eagerly sought after. A lock
of her hair was sold for two guineas, and the pur-
chaser thought himself fortunate in getting it so
cheap1y.
So great was the concourse of people to visit the
house in Camberwell Lane. where Greenacre mur-
dered Hannah Brown, in 1887, that it was found
necessary to station a strong detachment of police
on the spot. The crowd was so eager to obtain a
relic of the house of this atrocious criminal, that
the police were obliged to employ force to prevent
the tables and chair., and even the doors, from
being carried away.
In ear1ier times, a singular superstition was at-
tached to the band of a criminal who bad suffered
execution. It was thought that by merely rubbing
the dead hand on the body, the patient afflicted
with the king's evil would be instantly cured. The
executioner at Newgate, sixty or seventy years
ago, derived no inconsiderable revenue from this
foolish practice. The possession of the hand was
thought to be of still greater efficacy in the cure of
diseases and the prevention of misfortunes. In the
M~
\ h\ I
164 RELICS.
time of Charles II. as much as ten guineas was
thought a small price for one of these disgusting
relics.
When the maniac, Thorn, or Courtenay, was
shot, in the spring of 1888, the relic-hunters were
immediately in motion to obtain a memento of
so extraordinary an individual. His long, black
beard and hair, which were cut off by the sur-
geons, fell into the hands of his disciples, by
whom they are treasured with the utmo~t reve-
rence. A lock of his hair commands a great price,
not only amongst his follo'wers, but among the
more wealthy inhabitants of Canterbury and its
neighbourhood. The tree against which he fell
when he was shot, has already been stripped of all
its bark by the curious, and bids fair to be entirely
demolished within a twelvemonth. A letter, with
his signature to it, is paid for in gold coins ; and his
favourite horse promises to become as celebrated
as his master. Parties ofladies and gentlemen have
come to Boughton from a distance of a hundred
and fifty miles, to. visit the scene ofthat fatal affray,
and stroke on the back the horse of the "mad
Knight of Malta." If a strict watch had not been
kept over his grave for months, the body would
~ave been disinterred, and the bones carried away
as memorials.
Among the Chinese no relics are more valued
than the boots which have been worn by an upright
\ .
.....
RELICS. 165
magistrate. In Davis's interesting Description of
the Empire of China, we are informed, that when·
ever a judge of unusual integrity resigns his situa-
tion, the people all congregate to do him honour.
If'he leaves the city where he has presided, the
crowd accompany him from his residence to the
gates, where his boots are drawn off with great
ceremony, to be preserved in the hall of justice.
Their place is immediately supplied by a new pair,
which, in their turn, are drawn off to make room
for others before be has worn them five minutes, it
being considered sufficient to consecrate them that
he should have merely drawn them on.
Among the most favourite relics ofmodern times,
in Europe, are Shakspeare's mulberry-tree, Na-
poleon's willow, and the table at Waterloo, on
which the Emperor wrote his despatches. Snuff-
boxes of Shakspeare's mulberry-tree, are compara·
tively rare, though there are doubtless more of them
in the market than were ever made of the wood
planted by the great bard. Many a piece of alien
wood passes under this name. The same may be
said of Napoleon's table at Waterloo. The original
has long since been destroyed, and a round dozen
of counterfeits along with it. Many preserve the·
simple stick of wood; others have them cut into
brooches and every variety of ornament; but by
far the greater number prefer· them as snuff-boxes.
ln France they are made into bonhonnieres, and.
166 RELICS.
are much esteemed by the many thousands whose
cheeks still glow, and whose eyes still sparkle at the
name of Napoleon.
Bullets from the field of Waterloo, and buttons
from the coats of the soldiers who fell in the fight,
are still favourite relics in Europe. But the same
ingenuity which found new tables after the old one
was destroyed, has cast new bullets for the curious.
Many a one who thinks himself the possessor of
a bul1et which·aided in giving peace to the world
on that memorable day, is the owner of a dump,
first extracted from the ore a dozen years after-
wards. Let all lovers of genuine relics look well to
their money before they part with it to the ciceroni
that swarm in the vil1age of Waterloo.
Few travelleTS stop at the lonely isle ofSt. Helena,
without cutting a twig from the willow that droops
over the grave of Napoleon. Many of them have
since been planted in different parts of Europe,
and have grown into trees as large as their parent.
Relic-hunters, who are unable to procure a twig of
the original, are content with one from these. Se-
veral of them are growing in the neighbourhood of
London, more prized by their cultivators than any
other tree in their gardens.
But in relics, as in everything else, there is the
use and the abuse. The undoubted relics of great
men, or great events, will always possess attrac-
tions for the thinking and refined. There are few
RELICS. 167
who would not join with Cowley in the extravagant
wish introduced in his lines "written while sitting
in a chair made of the remains of the ship in which
Sir Francis Drake sailed round the world :"-
And I myaelf, who now love quiet too,
Almost as much as any chair can do,
Would yet a journey take
An old wheel of that chariot to see,
Which Phaeton so rashly brake.
168
MODERN PROPHECIES.
AN epidemic terror of the end of the world bas
several times spread over the nations. The most
remarkable was that which seized Christendom
about the middle of the tenth century. Numbers
offanatics appeared in France, Germany, and Italy
at that time, preaching that the thousand years
prophesied in the Apocalypse as the term of the
world's duration, were about to expire, and that
the Son of Man would appear in the clouds to
judge the godly and the ungodly. The delusion ap-
pears to have been discouraged by the church, but
it nevertheless spread rapidly among the people.•
The scene of the last judgment was expected to
be at Jerusalem. In the year 999, the number of
pilgrims proceeding eastward, to await the coming
of the Lord in that city, was so great that they
were compared to a desolating army. Most of
them sold their goods and possessions before they
quitted Europe, and lived upon the proceeds in the
Holy Land. Buildings of every sort were suffered
to fall into ruins. It was thought useless to repair
them, when the end of the world was so near.
• See Gibbon and Voltaire for further notice of this subject.
MODERN PROPHECIES. 169
Many noble edifices were deliberately pulled down.
Even churches, usually so well maintained, shared
the general neglect. Knights, citizens, and serfs,
travelled eastwards in company, taking with them
their wives and children, singing psalms as they
went, and looking with fearful eyes upon the sky,
wl1ich they expected each minute to open, to let
the Son of God descend in his glory.
During the thousandth year the number of pil-
grims increased. Most of them were smitten with
terror as with a plague. Every phenomenon of
nature filled them with alarm. A thunder-storm
sent them all upon their knees in mid-march. It
was the opinion that thunder was the voice of God,
announcing the day of judgment. Numbers ex-
pected the earth to open, and give up its dead at
tbe sound. Every meteor in the sky seen at Jeru-
salem brought t~e whole Christian population into
the streets to weep and pray. Th.e pilgrims on the
road were in the same alarm:-
Lorsque, pendant la nuit, un globe de lumiere
S'ecbappa quelquefois de la voute des cieux,
Et tm~a dans sa chute un long sillon de feux,
La troupe suspendit sa marche solitaire.•
Fanatic preachers kept up the flame of terror.
Every shooting star furnished occasion for a ser-
mon, in which tbe sublimity of the approaching
judgment was the principal topic.
• Charlemagne. Poeme Epique, par Lucien Buonaparte.
170 MODERN PROPHECIES.
The appearance ofcomets has been oftenthought
to foretell the speedy dissolution of this world.
Part of this beliefstill exists ; but the comet is no
longer looked upon as the sign, but the agent of
destruction. So lately as in the year 1882 the
greatest alarm spread over the Continent of Europe,
especially in Germany, lest the comet, whose ap-
pearance was then foretold by astronomers, should
destroy the earth. The danger of our globe was
gravely discussed. Many persons refrained from
undertaking or concluding any business during that
year, in 4 consequence solely of their apprehension
that this terrible comet would dash . us and our
world to atoms.
During seasons of great pestilence men have
often believed the prophecies of crazed fanatics,
that the end of the world was come. Ctedulity is
always greatest in times of calamity. Prophecies
of all sorts are rife on such occasions, and are
readily believed, whether for good or evil. During
the great plague, which ravaged all Europe, be-
tween the years 1345 and 1350, it was generally
considered that the end of the world was at hand.
Pretended prophets were to be found in all the
principal cities of Germany, France, and Italy, pre-
dicting that within ten years the trump of the
Archangel would sound, and the Saviour appear in
the clouds to call the earth to judgment.
No little consternation was created in London in
1786 by the prophecy of the famous ·Whiston, that
'I
MODERN PROPHECIES. 171
the world would be destroyed in that year, on the
lSth of October. Crowds of people went out on
the appointed day to Islington, Hampstead, and
the fields intervening, to see the destruction of
London, which was to be the u beginning of the
end." A satirical account of this folly is given in
· Swift's Miscellanies, vol. iii. entitled, n A True and
Faithful Narrative of what passed in London on a
Rumour of the Day of Judgment." An authentic
narrative of this delusion would be interesting; but
this solemn witticism of Pope and Gay is not to be
depended upon.
In the year 1761 the citizens of London were
again frightened out of their wits by two shocks of
an earthquake, and the prophecy of a third, which
was to destroy them altogether. The first shock
was felt on the 8th of February, and threw down
several chimneys in the neighbourhood of Lime-
house and Poplar ; the second happened on the
8th of March, and was chiefly felt in the north
of London, and towards Hampstead and Highgate.
It soon became the subject of general remark, that
there was exactJy an interval of a month between
the shocks ; and a crack-brained fellow, named
Bell, a soldier in the Life Guards, was so impressed
with the idea that there would be a third in
another month, that he lost his senses altogether,
and ran about the streets predicting the destruc-
tion of London on the 5th of April. Most people
thought that the first would have been a more
172 MODERN PROPllEClES.
appropriate day; but there were not wanting
thousands who confidently believed the prediction,
and took measures to transport themselves and
families from the scene of the impending calamity.
As the awful day approached, the excitement be-
came intense, and great numbers of credulous peo-
ple resorted to all the villages within a circuit of
twenty miles, awaiting the doom of London. Is-
lington, Highgate, Hampstead, Harrow, and Black-
heath, were crowded with panic-stricken fugitives,
who paid exorbitant prices for accommodation to
the housekeepers of these secure retreats. Such as
could not afford to pay for lodgings at any of those
places, remained in Lopdon until two or three days
before the time, and then encamped in the sur-
rounding fields, awaiting the tremendous shock
which was to lay their ·high city all level with
the dust. As happened during a similar panic in
the time of Henry VIII, the fear became con-
tagious, and hundreds who had laughed at the
prediction a week before, packed up their goods,
when they saw others doing so, and hastened away.
The river was thought to be a place of great secu-
rity, and all the merchant vessels in the port were
filled with people, who passed the night between
the 4th and 5th on board, expecting every instant
to see St. Paul's totter, and the towers of West-
minster Abbey rock in the wind and fall amid a
cloud of dust. The greater part of the fugitives
returned on the following day, convinced that the '
MODERN PROPHECIES. 178
prophet was afalse one; but many judged it more
prudent to allow a week to elapse before they
trusted their dear limbs in London. Bell lost aU
·credit in a short time, and was looked upon even
by the most credulous as a mere madman. He
tried some other prophecies, but nobody was de-
ceived by them ; and, in a few months afterwards,
he was confined in a lunatic asylum.
A panic terror of the end of the world seized the
good people of Leeds and its neighbourhood in the
year 1806. It arose from the following circum-
stances. A hen, in a village close by, laid eggs,
on which were inscribed, in legible characters, the
words· n Christ is comir1g." Great numbers visited
.the spot, and examined these wondrous eggs, con-
vinced that the day ofjudgment was near at hand.
Like sailors in a storm, expecting every instant to
go to the bottom, the believers suddenly became
religious, prayed violently, and flattered themselves
that they repented them oftheir evil courses. But
a plain tale soon put them down, and quenched
their religion entirely. Some gentlemen, hearing
of the matter, went one fine morning, and caught
the poor hen in the act of laying one of her mira-
culous eggs. They soon ascertained beyond doubt
that the egg had been inscribed with some corrosive
ink, and cruelly forced up again into the bird's body.
Atthis explanation,thosewbo bad prayed, nowlaugh-
ed, and the world wagged as merrily as of yore.
At the time of the plague in Milan, in 1680, of
n 'h.
174 MODERN PltOPHECIES.
which so affecting a description has been left us by
Ripamonte, in his interesting work De Peste Me-
diolani, the people, in their distress, listened with
avidity to the predictions of astrologers and other
impostors. It is Bingular enough that the plague
was foretold a year before it broke out. A large
comet appearing in 16~, the opinions of astrolo-
gers were divided with regard to it. Some insisted
that it was 8 forerunner of 8 bloody war ; others
maintained that it predicted a great famine ; but
the greater number, founding their judgment upon
its pale colour, thought it portended a pe»tilence.
The fulfilment of their prediction brought them
into great repute while the plague wai raging.
Other prophecies were current, which were as-
serted to have been delivered hundreds of years
previously. They bad a most pernicious effect upon
the mind of the vulgar, as they induced a belief in
fatalism. By taking away the hope of recovery-
that greatest balm in every malady-they increased
threefold the ravages of the disease. One singu181'
prediction almost drove the unhappy people mad.
An ancient couplet, preserved for ages by tradition,
foretold, that in the year 1680 the devil would
poison all Milan. Early one morning in April,
and before the pestilence had reached its height,
the passengers were surprised to see that aU the
doors in the principal streets of the city were
marked with a curious daub, or spot, as if a. sponge,
filled with the purulent matter of the plague-sores,
MODERN PROPHECIES. 175
had been pressed against them. The whole popu-
lation were speedily in movement to remark the
strange appearance, and the greatest alarm spread
rapidly. Every means was taken to discover the
perpetrators, but in vain. At last the ancient pro-
phecy was remembered, and prayers were offered
up in all the churches that the machinations of the
Evil One might be defeated. Many persons were
of opinion that the emissaries of foreign powers
were employed to spread infectious poison over the
city; but by far the greater number were con-
vinced that the powers ofhell had conspired against
them, and that the infection was spread by super-
natural agencies. In the mean time the plague
increased fearfully. Distrust and alarm took pos-
session of every mind. Everything was believed
to have been poisoned by the devil; the waters of
the wells, the standing corn in the fields, and the
fruit upon the trees. It was believed that all ob-
jects of touch were poisoned ; the walls of the
houses, the pavement of the streetsJ and the very
handles of the doors. The populace were raised to
a pitch of ungovernable fury. A strict watch was
kept for the devil's emissaries, and any man who
wanted to be rid of an enemy, had only to say that
he had seen him besmearing a door with ointment ;
his f.ate was certain death at the hands of the mob.
An old man, upwards of eighty years of age, a
daily frequenter of the church of St. Antonio, was
seen, on rising from his knees, to wipe with the skirt
176 MODERN PROPHECIES.
of hi's cloak the stool on which he was about to sit
down. A cry was raised immediately that he was
besmearing the seat with poison. A mob ofwomen,
by whom the church was crowded, seized hold ofthe
feeble old man, and dragged him out by the hair of
nis head, with horrid oaths and imprecations. He
was trailed in this manner through the mire to the
house of the municipal judge, that he might be put
to the rack, and forced to discover his accomplices ;
but he expired on the way. Many other victims
were sacrificed to the popular fury. One Mora,
who appears to have been half a chemist and half
a barber, was accused of being in leag.ue with the
devil to poison Milan. His house was surrounded,
and a number of chemical preparations were found.
The poor man asserted, that they were in'tended
as preservatives against infection ; but some phy-
sicians, to whom they were submitted, declared
they were poison. Mora was put to the rack,
where he for a long time asserted his innocence.
He confessed at last, when his courage was worn
down by torture, that he was in league with the
devil and foreign powers to poison the whole city;
that he had anointed the doors, and infected the
fountains of water. He named several persons as
his accomplices, who were apprehended and put to
a similar torture. They were all found guilty, and
executed. Mora's house was rased to the ground,
and a column erected on the spot, with an inscrip-
tion to commemorate his guilt.
MODERN PROPH'ECIES. 177
While the public n:iind was ·filled with these
marvellous occurrences, the ,plague continued to
increase. The crowds that were brought together
to witness the executions, spread the infection
among one another. But the fury of their pas-
sions, and the extent of their credulity, kept pace
with, the violence of the plague; every wonderful
and preposterous story was believed. One, in
particular, occupied them to the exclusion, for
a long time, of every other. The Devil l1imself
bad been seen. He had taken a house in Milan,
in which he prepared his poisonous unguents,
and furnished them to his emissaries for distribu-
tion. One man had brooded over such tales till
he became firmly convinced that the wild flights
of his own fancy were realities. He stationed him-
self in the market-place of Milan, and related the
following story to the crowds that gathered round
him. He was standing, l1e said, at the door of the
cathedral, late in the evening, and when there was
nobody nigh, he saw a dark--coloured chariot, drawn
by six milk-white horses, stop close beside him.
The chariot was followed by a numerous train of
domestics in dark liveries, mounted on dark-colour-
ed steeds. In the chariot there sat a tall stranger
of a majestic aspect ; his long black hair floated in
the wind-fire flashed from his large black eyes,
and a curl of ineffable scorn dwelt upon his lips.
The look of the stranger was so sublime that he
was awed, and trembled with fear when he gazed
VOL. I. N
178 MODERN PROPHECIES.
upon him. His complexion was much darker than
that of any man he had ever seen, and the at-
mosphere around him was hot and suffocating. He
perceived immediately that he was a being ofanother
world. The stranger, seeing his trepidation, asked
him blandly, yet majestically, to mount beside him.
He had no power to refuse, and before be was well
aware that be bad moved, be found himself in the
chariot. Onwards they went, with the rapidity of
the wind, the stranger speakingno word, until they
stopped before a door in the high-street of Milan.
There was a crowd of people in the street, but, to
his great surprise, no one seemed to notice the ex•
traordinary equipage and its numerous train. From
this he concluded that they were invisible. The
house at which·they stopped appeared to be a shop,
but the interior was like a vast half-ruined palace.
He went with his mysterious guide through several
large and dimly-lighted rooms. In one of them,
surrounded by huge pillars of marble, a senate of
ghosts was assembled, debating on the progress
of the plague. Other parts of the building were
enveloped in the thickest darkness, illumined at
intervals by flashe& of lightning,.which allowed him
to distinguish a number of gibing and chattering
skeletons, running about and pursuing each other,
or playing at leap-frog over one another's backs.
At the rear of the mansion was a wild, uncultivated
plot of ground, in the midst of which arose a black
rock. Down its sides rushed with fearful noise. a
torrent of poisonous water, which, insinuating itself
MODERN PROPHECIES. 179
through the soil, penetrated to all the springs of
the city, and rendered them unfit for use. Aftet
he had been shown all this, the stranger led him
into another large chamber, filled with gold and
precious stones, all of which he offered him if he
would kneel down and worship him, and consent
to smear the doors and house~ of Milan with ~
pestiferous salve which he held out to. him~ ·He
now knew him to be the Devil, and in that mo-
ment of temptation, prayed to God to give him
strength to resist. His prayer was heard-he re-
fused the bribe. The stranger scowled horribly upon
him-a loud clap Gf thunder burst over his head-
the vivid lightning flashed in his eyes, and the next
moment he found himself standing alone at the
porch of the cathedral. He repeated this strange
tale day after day, without any variation, and all
the populace were firm believers in its truth. Re-
peated search was made to discover the mysterious
house, but aU in vain. The man pointed out several
as resembling it, which were searched by the po-
lice ; but the Demon of the Pestilence was not to
be found, nor the hall of ghosts, nor the poisonous
fountain. But the minds of the people were so
impressed with· the idea that scores of witnesses,
half crazed by disease, came forward to swear that
they also had seen the diabolical stranger, and had
heard his chariot, drawn by the milk-white steeds,
rumbling over the streets at midnight with a sound
louder than thUQ.der.
N 2
180 MODERN PROPHECIES.
The number of persons who confessed that they
were employed by the Devil to cfistribute ·poison is
almost incredible. An epidemic frenzywas abroad.
which seemed to be as contagious as the plague.
Imagination was as disordered as .the body, and
day after day persons came voluntarily forward to
accuse themselves. They generally had tl1e marks
of disease upon them, and some died in the act
of confession.
During the great plague of London, in 1665, the
people listened with similar avidity to the predic-
tions of quacks and fanatics. Defoe says, that at
that time the people were more addicted to pro-
phecies and astronomical conjurations, dreams, and
old wives' tales than ever they were before or
since. Almanacs, and their predictions, frightened
them terribly. Even the year before the plague
broke out, they were greatly alarmed by the comet
which then appeared, and anticipated that famine,
pestilence, or fire would follow. Enthusiasts, while
yet the disease had made but little progress, ran
about the streets, predicting that in a few days
London would be destroyed.
A still more singular instance of the faith in pre-
dictions occurred in London in the year 1524. The
city swarmed at that time with fortune-tellers and
astrologers, who were consulted daily by people of
every class in society on the secrets of futurity.
As early as the month of June 1528, several of
them concurred in predicting that, on the 1st day
\ h\ I
MODERN PROPHECIES. 181
of February, 1624, the waters of the Thames would
swell to such a height as to overflow the whole c~ty
of London, and wash away ten thousand houses.
The prophecy met implicit belief. It was reite-
rated with the utmost confidence mouth aftet:
month, until so much alarm was excited that many
families packed up their goods, and removed into
Kent and Essex. As the time drew nigh, the
number of these emigrants increased. In January,
droves of workmen might be seen, followed · by
their wives and children, trudging on foot to the
villages within fifteen or twenty miles, to await
the catastrophe. People of a higher class were
also to be seen, in waggons and other vehicles,
bounJ on a similar errand. By the middle of
January, at least twenty thou.sand persons had
quitted the doomed city, leaving nothing but the
bare walls of their homes to be swept away by
the impending floods. Many of the richer sort
took up their abode on the heights of Highgate,
Hampstead, and Blackheath; and some erected
tents as far away as Waltham Abbey, on the north,
and Croydon, on the south of the Thames. Bol-
ton, the prior of St. Bartholomew's, was so alarmed
that he erected, at very great e.xpense, a sort of
fortress at Harrow-on-the-Hill, which he stocked
with provisions for two months. On the 24th of
January, a week before the awful day which was to
see the destruction .of London, he removed thithet,
with the brethren and officers of the priory and
182 ltlODERN PROPHECIES.
all his household. A number of boats were con-
veyed in waggons to his fortress, furnished abun-
dantly ~th expert rowers, in case the.flood, reach-
ing so high as Harrow, should force them to go
further for a resting-place. Ma~y weal~hy citiz~ns
prayed to share his retreat, but the Prior, with a
prudent forethought, admitted only his personal
friends, and those who brought stores of eatable~
for·the blockade.
At last the morn, big with the fate of London,
appeared in the east. The wondering crowds were
astir at an early hour to watch the rising of the
waters. The inundation, it was predicted, would
be gradual, not sudden ; so that they expected to
have plenty of time to escape, as soon as they saw
the bosom of old Thames heave beyond the usual
mark. But the majority were too much alarmed
to trust to this, and thought themselves safer ten
or twenty miles off. The Thames, unmindful of
the foolish crowds upon its ·banks, flowed on quietly
as of yore. The tide ebbed at its usual hour,
tlowed to its usual height, and then ebbed again,
just as if twenty astrologers had not pledged their
words to the contrary. Blank were their faces as
evening approached, and as blank grew the faces
of the citizens to think that they had made such
fools of themselves. At last night set in, and the
obstinate river would not lift its waters to sweep
away even one house out of the ten thousand.
Still, however, the people ,were afraid . to go to
"',...
MODERN PROPHECIES. 181
tleep. Many hundreds remained up till dawn of
the ne-xt day, lest the deluge should come upon
them like a thief in the night.
On the morrow~ it was seriously discussed whe-
ther it would not be advisable to duck the false
p~ophets in the river. Luckily for them, they
thought of an expedient which allayed the popu-
lar fury. They asserted that, by an error (a very
slight one) of .a little figure, they had fixed the
date of this awful inundation a whole century
too early. The stars were right after aU, and
they, erring mortals, were wrong. The present
generation of cockneys was safe, and London
would be w.ashed away., not in l5j4, but in
16~4.. At this announcement, Bolton, the prior,
distUantled his fortress, and the weary emigrants
came back.
An eye-witness of the great fire of London, in
an account preserved among the Harleian MSS.
in the British Museum, and recently published in
the Transactions of the Royal Society of Antiqua..
ries, relates another instance of the credulity of
the Londoners. The writer, who accompanied the
Duke of York day by day through the district
included between the Fleet-bridge and the Thames,
states that, in their efforts to check the progress
of the flames, they were much impeded by the
superstition of the people. Mother Shipton, in
one of her prophecies, had said that London would
be reduced to ashes, and they refused to make
184 MODERN PROPHECIES.
nny efforts to prevent it.• A son of the noted Sir
Kenelm Digby, who was also·a pretender to the
gifts of prophecy, persuaded them that no power
on·earth could prevent the fulfilment of the pre-
diction; for it was written in the great book of
fate that London was to be destroyed. Hundreds
of persons, who might have rendered valuable as-
sistance, and saved whole parishes from devastiJ.-
tion, folded their arms and looked on. As many
more gave themselves up, with the less compunc·
tion, to plunder a city which they could _
not save.
The prophecies of Mother Shipton are still be·
lieved in many of the rural districts of England.
In cottages and servants' halls her reputation is
great; and she rules, the most popular of British
prophets, among all the uneducated, or half-edu-
cated, portions of the community. She is gene-
rally supposed to have been born at Knaresborough,
in the reign of Henry VII, and to have sold her
soul to the Devil for the po.wer of foretelling future
events. Though during her lifetime she was look.
ed upon as a witch, she yet escaped the witch's
fate, and died peaceably in her bed at an extreme
old age, near Clifton in Yorkshire. A stone is
said to have been erected to. her memory in the
• This prophecy seems t~ have been that set forth at length in
the popular Life ofMother Shipton:-
'' When fate to England shall restore
A king to reign as heretofore,
Great death in London shall be though,
And many ho'uses be laid low.''
MODERN PROPHECIES. 185
church-yard of that place, with the following epi-
taph:-
" Here lies she who never lied ;
Whose skill often has been tried :
Her prophecies ahall still survive,
And ever keep her name alive.''
" Never a day passed," says her traditionary
biography, "wherein she did not relate something
remarkable, and that required the most serious
consideration. People flocked to her from far and
near, her fame was so great. They went to her
of all sorts, both old and young. rich and poor,
especially young maidens, to be resolved of their
doubts relating to things to come; and all returned
wonderfully satisfied in .the explanations she gave
to their questions." Among the rest, went the Ab..
bot of Beverley, to· whom she foretold the sup-
pression of the monasteries by Henry VIII ; his
marriage with Anne Boleyn ; the fires for heretics
in Smithfield, and the execution of Mary Queen of
Scots. She also foretold the accession of James I,
adding that, with him, ·
" From the cold Nortb,
Evt!ry evil should come forth."
On a subsequent visit she uttered another pro-
J,hecy, which, in the opinion Of her believers, still
remains. unfulfilled, but may be expected to be
realised during the present century :-
... The time shall come when seas of blood
Shall mingle with a greater flood.
Great noise there shall be heard-great shouts and cries,
And seas shall thunder louder than the skies ;
186 MODERN PROPHECIES.
Then shall three lions fight with three, and bring
Joy to a people, honour to a king.
That fiery year as soon as o'er,
Peace ahall then be as before ;
Plenty shall everywhere be found,
And men with swords shall plough the ground.'
But the most famous of all her prophecies is one
relating to London~ Thousands of persons still
shudder to think of the woes that are to burst over
this unhappy realm, when London and Highgate
are joined by one continuous line of houses. This
junction, which, if the rage for building lasts much
longer, in the same proportion as heretofore, bids
fair to be soon accomplished, was predicted by her
shortly before her death. Revolutions-the fall of
mighty monarchs, and the shedding of much bloQd
are to signalise that event. The yerv angels,
afflicted by our woes, are to turn aside their heads,
and weep for hapless Britain.
But great as is the fame of Mother Shipton, she
ranks but second in the list of British prophets.
Merlln, the mighty Merlin, stands alone in his
high pre-eminence-the first and greatest. As old
Drayton sings, in his Poly-olbion :-
" Of Merlin and his skill what region doth not hear 1
The world shall still be full o(Merlin every year.
A thousand lingering yean his prophecies have run,
And scarcely shall have end till time itselfbe done."
Spenser, in his divine poem, has given us a power.
ful description of this renowned seer-
MODERN PROPHECIES~
" -who had in magic more insight
Than ever him before, or after, living wight.
" For he by words could call out of the sky
Both sun and moon, and make them him obey ;
The land to sea, and sea to mainland dry,
And darksome night he eke could tum to day-
Huge hosts of men he could, alone, dililTlay.
And hosts ofmen and meanest things could frame,
Whenso him list his enemies to fray,
That to this day, for terror of hla name,
187
The fiends do quake, when any him to them does name.
~< And soothe men say that he was not the sonne,
Of mortal sire or other living wighte,
But wondrously begotten and begoune
By false illusion of a guileful sprite,
On a faire ladye nun."
In these verses the poet has preserved the popu~
lar belief with regard to Merlin, who is generally
supposed to have been a contemporary of Vorti-
gern. Opinion is divided as to whether he were a
real personage, or a mere impersonation, formed by
the poetic fancy of a credulous people. It seems
most probable that such a man did exist, and that,
possessing knowledge as much above the compre-
hension of his age, as that possessed by Friar Bacon
was beyond the reach of his, he was endowed by
the wondering crowd with the supernatural attri-
butes that Spens·er has enumerated.
Geoffrey of Monmouth translated Merlin's poeti-
cal odes, or prophecies, into Latin prose, and he was
much rever~nced, not only by Geoff'rey, but by most
of the old annalists. In a u Life ofMe1·lin, with his
188 MODERN PROPHECIES.
Prophecies and Predictions, interpreted and made
good by our English Annals," by Thomas Hey-
wood, published in the reign of Charles I, we find
several of these pretended prophecies. They seem,
however, to have been all written by Heywood him-
self. They are in terms too plain and positive to
allow any one to doubt for a moment of their hav-
ing been composed · e.z· post facto. Speaking of
Richard I, he says:-
"The Lion's heart will 'gainst the Saracen rise,
And purchase from him many a glorioUB pme ;
The rose and lily shall at first unite,
But, parting of the prey prove opposite.
• • • • •
But while abroad these great acts ahall be done ;
AU thinge at home shall to disorder run.
Cooped up and caged then shall the Lion be,
But, after sufferance, rattsomed and set free."
The sapient Thomas Heywood gravely goes on
to inform us, that all these things actually came to
pass. Upon Ricbard III. he is equally luminous.
He says:-
" A hunch-backed monster, who with teeth iB born,
The mockery of art and nature's scorn;
Who from the womb preposterously iB hurled,
And, with feet forward, thrust into the world,
Shall, from the lower earth on which he stood,
Wade, every step he mounts, knee-deep in blood.
He shall to th' height of all his hopes aspire,
And, clothed in state, his ugly shape admire ;
But, when he thinks himself most safe to stand,
From foreign parts a native whelp shall land."
Another of these prophecies after the event tells
MODERN PROPHECIES. 189
us that Henry VIII. should take the power from
Rome, "and bring it home unto his British bower;"
that he should "root out from the land all the
razored skulls;" and that he should neither spare
cr man in his rage nor woman in his lust ;.. and that,
in the time of his next successor but one, " there
should come in the fagot and the stake." Master
Heywood closes Merlin's prophecies at his own day,
and does not give even a glimpse of what was to
befall England after his decease. Many other pro-
phecies, besides those quoted by him, were, he says,
dispersed abroad, in his day, under the name of
Merlin ; but he gives his readers a taste of one
only, and that is the following :-
1
' When hempe is ripe and ready to pull,
Then Englishman beware thy skull."
This prophecy, wbich, one would think, ought to
have put him in mind of the gallows, the not un-
usual fate of false prophets, and perchance his own,
he explains thus :-~~ In this word BEMPE be five
letters. Now, by reckoning the five successive.
p.rinces from Henry VIII, this prophecy is easily
e:q>lained : H signifieth King Henry before named ;
E, Edward, his son, the. sixth of that name; M,
Mary, who succeeded him; P, Philip of Spain, who,
by mauying Queen Mary, participated .with her in
the English diadem; and, lastly, E signifieth Queen
Elizabeth, after whose death there was a great
feare that some troubles might have arisen !lhout
190 MODERN PROPUECIES.
the crown." As this did not happen, Heywood,
who was a sly rogue in a small way, gets out of the
scrape by saying, 11
Yet proved this augury true,
though not according to the former expectation;
for, after the peaceful inauguration of King James,
there was great mortality, not in L~ndon.only, but
through the whole kingdom, and from which the
nation was not quite clean in seven years after."
This is not unlike the subterfuge of Peter of
Pontefract, who had prophesied the death and de·
position of King John, and who was hanged by that
monarch for his pains. A very graphic and amus.
ing account of this pretended prophet is given by
Grafton, in his Chronicles of England. There is so
much homely vigour about the style of the ol~
annalist, that it would be a pit:y to give_the story
in other words than his own.• " In the mean.
while,, says he, "the priestes within England had
provided them a false and counterfeated prophet,
called Peter Wakefielde, a Yorkshire man, who was
an hermite, an idle gadder about, and a pratlyng
marcliant. Now to bring this Peter in credite, and
the kyng out of all credite with his people, diverse
vaine persons bruted dayly among the commons of
the realme, that Christe had twice appered unto
him in the shape of a childe, betwene the prieste's
handes, once at Yorke, another tyme at Pomfret ;
and that he had breathed upon him thrice, saying,
• Chrol;liolea of England, by Richard Grafton ; London, 1568,
p. 106. .
MODERN PROPHECIES. 191
"Peace, peace, peace,' and teachyng many things, .
which he anon declared to the bishops, and bid the
people amend their naughtie living. Being rapt
also in spirite, they sayde he behelde the joyes of
heaven and sorowes of hell, for scant were there
three in the realme, sayde he, that lived Chris-
tainly.
"This counterfeated soothsayer prophecied of
King John, that he should reigne no longer than
the Ascension-day next followyng, which was in
the yere of our·Lord l!Ul, and was the thirteenth
yere from his coronation; and this, he said, he
had by revelation. Then it was of him demanded,
whether he should be slaine or be deposed, or
should voluntarily give over the crowne 1 He aun~
swered, that he could not tell ; but of this he was
sure (be sayd), that neither be nor any of his stock
or lineage should reigne after that day.'
" The king bering of this, laughed much at it,
and made but a scoff thereat. 'Tush I' saith be,
1
it is but an ideot knave, and such an one as Jacketh
his right wittes.' But when this foolish prophet
had 80 escaped the daunger of the Kinge's dis·
pleasure, and that he made no more of it, he gate
him abroad, and prated thereof at large, as he was
a very idle vagabond, and used to tl·attle and talke
niore than ynough, so .that they which loved the
King caused him anon after to be apprehended as a
malefactor, and to be throwen in prison_, the King
not yet knowing thereof.
191 MODERN PROPHECIES.
"Anone after the fame of this phantasticall pro•
phet went all the realme over, and his name was
knowen everywhere, as foolishnesse is much re-
garded of the people, where wisdome is not iQ
place; specially because be was then imprisoned
for the matter, the rumour was the larger, their
wonderynges were the wantoner, their practises the
foolisher, their busye talkes and other idle doinges
the greater. Continually from thence, as the rude
manner of people is, olde gossyps t~les went abroade,
new tales were invented, fables were .added to
fables, and lyes grew upon lyes. So that every
daye newe slanders were laide upon the King, and
not one·of them true. Rumors arose, blasphemyes
were sprede, the enemyes rejoyced, and treasons by
the priestes were mainteyned; and what lykewise
was surmised, or other subtiltye practised, all was
then fathered upon this foolish prophet, as 1
thus
saith Peter Wakefi.eld ;' 1
thus hath lte prophecied;'
c and thus it shall co..me to pass ;' yea, many times,
when be thought nothing Iesse. And when the
Ascension-day was come, which was prophecyed of
before, King John commanded his royal tent to be
spread in the open fi.elde, p~ssing that day with his
noble counseyle and men of.honour, in the greates~
solemnitie that ever he did before ; solacing him-
self with musickale instrumentes and songs, most
.in sight among his trustie friendes. When that
day was paste in all prosperitie and myrth, his
enemyes being confused, turned all into an alle-
MODERN PROPHECIES. 198
gorical understanding to make the propbecie good,
-and sayde, "he is no longer King, for the Pope
reigneth, and not he." [King John was labouring
under a sentence of excommunication at the time.]
11
Then was the King by his council perswaded
that this false prophet bad troubled the realme,
perverted the heartes of the people, and raysed the
commons against him; for his wordes went over
the sea, by the help of his prelates, and came to the
French King's eare, and gave to him a great en·
couragement to invade the Iande. He bad not else
done it so sodeinely. But be was most fowly de·
ceived, as all they are and shall be that put their
trust in such dark drowsye dreames of hipocrites.
The King therefore commanded that be should be
hanged up, and his sonne also with him, lest any
more false prophets should arise of that race."
Heywood, who was a great stickler for the truth
of all sorts of prophecies, gives a much more favour-
able account of this Peter of Pomfret, or Ponte-
fract, whose fate be would, in all probability, have
shared, if be had had the misfortune to have flou-
rished in the same age. He says, that Peter, who
was not o~ly a prophet, but a bard, predicted divers
of King John's disasters, which fell out accord-
ingly. On being taxed for a lying prophet in hav-
ing predicted that the King would be deposed
before he entered into the fifteenth year of his
reign, he answered him boldly, that all he bad said
was justifiable and true ; for that, having given up
VOL. I. 0
194 MODERN PROPHECIES.
his crown to the Pope, and paying him an annual
tribute, the Pope reigned, and not he. Heywood
thought this explanation to be perfectly satisfac-
tory, and the prophet's faith for ever established.
But to return to Merlin. Of him even to this
day it may be said, in the words which Burns has
applied to another notorious personage,
" Great was his power and great his fame;
Far kenned·and noted is his name !"
His reputation is by no means confined to the
land of his birth, but extends through most of the
nations of Europe. A very curious volume of his
Life, Prophecies, and Miracles, written, it is sup-
posed, by Robert de Bosron, was printed at Paris
in 1498, which states, that the Devil himself was
his fa~her, and that he spoke the instant he was
born, and assured his mother, a very virtuous young
.woman, that she should not die in child-bed with
him, as her ill-natured neighbours had predicted.
-The judge of the district, hearing of so marvellous
an occurrence, summoned both mother and child to
appear before him; and they went accordingly the
same day. To put the wisdom of the young pro-
phet most effectually to the test, the judge asked
him if he knew his own father 1 To which the in-
fant Merlin replied, in a clear, sonorous voice,
" Yes, my father is the Devil; and I have his power,
and know all things, past, present, and to come."
His worship clapped his hands in astonishment, and
MODERN Plt0PH£CIES. 195
took the prudent resolution of not molesting so
awful a child, or its mother either.
Early tradition attributes the building of Stone-
benge to the power of Merlin. It was believed
that thos.e mighty stones were whirled through the
air, at his command, from Ireland to Salisbury
Plain, and that he arranged them in the form iu
which they now stand, to commemorate for ever
the unhappy fate of three hundred British chiefs,
who were massacred on that spot by the Saxons.
At Abergwylly, near Caermarthen, is still shown
the cave of the prophet and the scene of his incan-
tations. How beautiful is the description of it
given by Spenser in his u Faerie Queene." The
lines need no apology for their repetition here, and
any sketch of the great prophet of Britain would
be·incomplete without them :-
"There.the wise Merlin, whilom wont (they say),
To make hia wonne low underneath the ground,
In a deep delve far from the ~ew of day,
That ofno living wight he mote be found,
WhenJO be counselled with his sprites encompassed round.
1
' And if thou ever happen that same way
To travel, go to see that dreadful place;
It is a hideous, hollow cave, they say,
Under a rock that lies a little space
From the swift Berry, tumbling down apace
Amongat the woo4y hills of Dynevoure ;
But dare thou not, I charge, in any case,
To enter into that same baleful bower,
For fear the cruel tiendes should thee unwares devour!
0 2
196 MODERN PROPHECIES.
" But, standing high alo~, low lay thine eare,
And there auch ghastly noise of iron chaines.
And brazen caudrons thou shalt rambling heare,
Which thousand sprites, with long-enduring paine&,
Doe tosae, that it will stun thy feeble brainea;
And often times great groans and grievous stownds,
When too huge toile and labour them constrainea;
And often times loud strokes and ringing sounds
From under that deep rock most horribly rebounds.
" The cause, they say, is this. A little while
Before that Merlin died~ he did intend
A brazen wall in compass, to compile
About Cayr Merdin, and did it commend
Unto these sprites to bring to perfect end;
During which work the Lady ofthe Lake,
Whom long he loved, for him in baste did send,.
Who thereby forced his workmen to.forsake,
Them bound till his return their labour not to slake.
'
4
In the mean time, through that false ladie's traine,
He was surprised, and buried under biere,
Ne ever to his work returned again;
Natheless these fiendes may not their work forbeare,
So greatly his commandement they fear,
But there doe toile and travaile day and night,
Until that braun wall they up doe reare."*
Amongst other English prophets, a beliefin whose
power has not been entirely effaced by the light
of advancing knowledge, is Robert Nixon, the
Cheshire idiot, a contemporary of Mother Shipton.
The popular accounts of this man say, that he was
born of poor parents, not far from Va]e Royal, on
the edge ofthe forest ofDelamere. He was brought
* Faerie Queene, b. S. c. S. a. 6- HI.
MODERN PROPH'EClES. 197
up t{) the plough, but was 80 ignorant and ~Jtupid,
that nothing could be made of him. Everybody
thought him irretrievably insane, and paid no
attention to the strange, unconnected discourses
which he held. Many of his prophecies are be-
lieved to have been lost in this manner. But they
were not always destined to be wasted upon dull
and inattentive ears. An incident occurred which
brought him into notice, and established his fame
88 a prophet of the first calibre. He was ploughing
in a field when he suddenly stopped from his labour,
and, with a wild look and strange gestures, ex-
claimed, u Now, Dick! now, Harry ! 0, ill done,
Dick ! 0, well done, Harry! Harry has gainedthe
dll!J !" His fellow labourers in the field did not
know what to make of this rhapsody; but the next
·day cleared up the mystery. News was brought by
a messenger, in hot haste, that at the .very instant
when Nixon bad thus ejaculated, Richard III. had
been slain at the battle ofBosworth, and Henry VII.
proclaimed King ofEngland.
It was not long before the fame of the new pro-
phet reached the ears of the King, who expressed
a wish to see and converse with him. A messenger
was accordingly despatched to bring him to court;
but long before he reached Cheshire, Nixon knew
and dreaded the honours that awaited him. Indeed
it was said, that at the very instant the King
expressed the wish, Nixon was, by supernatural
means, made acquainted with it, and that he ran
198 MODERN PROPHECIES.
about the town of Over in great distress of mind,
calling out, Jike a madman, that Henry had sent for
him, and that he must go to court, and be clammed;
that is, starved to death. These expressions ex-
Qited no little wonder ; but, on the third day, the
messenger arrived, and carried him to court, leav·
ing on the minds of the good people of Cheahire an
impression that their prophet was one of the great..
est ever born. On his arrival King Henry ap-
peared to be troubled exceedingly at the loss of
a valuable diamond, and asked Nixon if he could
inform him where it was to be found. Henry had
hidden the diamond himself, with a view to teat the
prophet's skill. Great, therefore, was his surprise
when Nixon answered him in the words of tbe old
proverb, u Those who hide can find." From that
time forth the King implicitly belie,ved that be bad
the gift of prophecy, and ordered all his words to
be taken down.
During all the time of his residence at court he
was in constant fear of being starved to death, and
repeatedly told the King that such would be his
fate, if he were not allowed to depart, and return
into his own country. Henry would not suffer it,
but gave strict orders to all his officers and cooks
to give him aa much to eat as he wanted. He
lived so well, that for some time be seemed to be
thriving Jike a nobleman's steward, and growing as
fat. as an alderman. One day the king went out
hunting, when Nixon ran to the palace gate, and
MODERN PROPHECIES. 199
entreated on his knees that he might not be left
behind to be starved. The King laughed, and,
calling an officer, toJd him to take especial care of
the pTophet during his absence, and rode away to
the forest. After his departure, the servants of the
palace began to .jeer at and insult Nixon, whom
they imagined to be much better treated than be
deserved. Nixon complained to the officer, who,
to prevent him from being further molested, locked
him up in the King's own closet, and brought him
regularly his four meals a day. But it so happened
that a messenger arrived from the King to this
officer, requiring his immediate presence at Win-
chester, on a 'matter of life a~d death. So great
was his haste to obey the King's command, that he
mounted on the horse behind the messenger, and
rode o1t without bestowing a thought upon poor
Nixon. He did not return till three days after-
wards, when, remembering the prophet for the first
time, he went to the King's closet, and found him
lying upon the floor, starved to death, as be had
predicted.
Among the prophecies of his whic}l are believed
to have been fulfilled, are the following, which re-
late to the times ofthe Pretender :-
" A great man thall come into E1t9la'lfd1
But the aon qfa King
Shall ta/.;e from him the tJictory."
'' Cro'ltlt tJhaJl drink the blood qfmany twble8,
And the Nort/1 1/tall t'i&e a9aimt the South.''
~00 MODERN PROPHECIES.
" Tire cock qftlre North IM/JlJe niade toflee, .
And hi1featlter lJe pluckedfw /ail pride,
Tluzt he lludl al11101t cur1e tire day tluzt he teal /Jqrn."
All these, say his admirers, are as clear as the
sun at noon-day. The first denotes the defeat of
Prince Charles Edward, at the battle of Culloden,
by the Duke of.Cumberland ; the second, the ex-
ecution of Lords Derwentwater, Balmerino, and
Lovat ; and the third, the retreat of the Pretender
fr.om the shores ofBritain. Among the prophecies
that still remain to be accomplished., are the fol-
lowing:-
«Between leflffl, eight, and nine,
In England 11Xmder1 1/udl be 1een ;
Between nine and tkirteen
Jll eurr~ •hall he d011e!"
" Through our oll"n mqney and our men
Shall a dreadful war hegin.
Between tire ,·ckk and tire tuck
All England IMll laaiJe a plud:....
" Eweign nationi elzall inotuk Engkmd "'itA motD on tkir lrel-
met&, and &hall hring plague, famine, and murder in tire &kirll of
tlreir garme-ntl.''
" Tire town of NantJtJicll Bhall he ~Wept a~y by a flood."
Of the two first of these no explanation has yet
been attempted; but some event or other willdoubt-
less be twisted into such a shape as will fit them.
The third, relative to the invasion of England by
a nation with snow on their helmets, is supposed by
the old women to foretell most clearly the coming
MODERN PROPHECIES. 201
war with Russia. As to the last, there ate not
a few in the town mentioned who devoutly believe
tbat such will be its fate. Happily for their
peace of mind, the prophet said nothing of the
year that was to witness the awful calamity; so
that they think it as likely to be two centuries
hence as now.
The popular biographers of Nixon conclude their
account ofhim by saying, that u his prophecies are
by some persons thought fables ; yet by what has
come to pass, it is now thought, and very plainly
appears, that most of them have proved, or will
prove, true ; for which we, on all occasions, ought
not only to exert our utmost might to repel by
force our enemies, but to refrain from our aban-
doned and wicked course of life, and to make our
continual prayer to God for protection and safety:•
To this, though a non sequitur, every one will cry
Amen!
Besides the prophets, there have been the alma-
nack makers, Lilly, Poor Robin, Partridge, and
Francis Moore, physician, in England, and Mat-
thew Laensbergh, in France and Belgium. But
great as were their pretensions, they were modesty
itself in comparison with Merlin, Shipton, and
Nixon, who fixed their minds upon higher things
than the weather, and who were not so restrained
in their flights of fancy as to prophesy for only one
year at a time. After such prophets as they, the
almanack makers hardly deserve to be mentioned;
201 MODERN PROPHECIES.
no, not even the renowned Partridge, whose won-
derful prognostications set all England agog in
1708, and whose death, at a time when he was still
alive and kicking, was so pleasantly and satisfac..
torily proved by Isaac Bickerstaff. The anti-climax
would be too palpable, and they and their doings
must be left uncommemorated.
203
POPULAR ADMIRATION FOR GREAT
THIEVES.
Jaclc. Where shall we find such another set of practical phi-
losophers who, to a man, are above the fear of death1
Wa.t. Sound men and true!
Rcbin. Oftried courage and in~fatigable industry !
Ned. Who is there here that would not die for his friend?
Harry. Who ia there here that would betray him for his in-
terest l
Mat. Show me a gang ofcourtien that could say as much !
Dialogu oftlliefltl in the Beggar/ Qpera.
WHBTHRR it be that the multitude, feeling the
pangs of poverty_. sympathise with the daring and
ingenious depredators who take away _the rich
man's superfluity, or whether it be t~e _
interest
that mankind in general feel for the records of
perilous adventures, it is certain that .the popu-
lace of all countries look with admir~~~~n upon
great and successful thieves. Perhaps both these
causes combine to invest their career with charms
in the popular eye. Almost every country in Eu-
rope has its traditional thief, wllose exploits are
recorded with all the graces of poetry, and whose
trespasses-
20, POPULAR ADMIRATION FOR
" - - are cited up in rhymee,
And IIWig by children in succeeding timee.''•
Those travellers who have made national man-
ners and characteristics their peculiar study, have
often observed and remarked upon this feeling.
The learned Abbe le Blanc, who .resided for some
time in England at the commencement of the
eighteenth century, says, in his amusing letters
on the English and French nations,.that he con-
tinually met with Englishmen who were not less
vain in boasting of the success of their highway-
men than of the bravery of their troops. Tales
of their address, their cunning, or their generosity,
were in the mouths of everybody, and a noted thief
was a kind of hero in high repute. He adds that
the mob, in all countries, being easily moved, look
in general with concern upon criminals going to
the gallows ; but·an English mob looked upon such
scenes with extraordinary interest : they delight-
ed to see them go through their last trials with
resolution, and. applauded those who were insensi-
ble enough to die as they had lived, braving the
justice both of God and men : such, he might have
added, as the noted robber Macpherson, of whom
the old ballad says-
" Sae rantingly, aae wantonly,
Sae dauntingly gaed he:
He played a spring. and danced it round
Beneath the gallows tree."
• Shakspeare'a Rape of Lucretia.
GRi.AT THIEVES. 205
Among these traditional thieves the most noted
in England, or perhaps in any country, is Robin
Hood, a name which popular affection has encir-
cled with a peculiar halo. u He robbed the rich
to give to the poor;'' and his reward has been
an immortality of fame, a tithe of which would
be thought more ~han sufficient to recompense a
benefactor of his species. Romance and poetry
have been emulous to make him all their own ;
and the forest of Sherwood, in which he roamed
with his merry men, armed with their long bows,
and clad in Lincoln green, has become the resort
of pilgrims, and a classic spot sacred to his me-
mory. The few virtues he had, which would have
ensured him no praise if he bad been an honest
man, have been blazoned forth by popular renown
during seven successive centuries, and wiH never
be forgotten while the English tongue endures.
His charity to the poor, and his gallantry and
respect for women, have made him the pre-eminent
thief of all the world.
Among English thieves of a later. date, who has
not h~ard of Claude Duval, Dick Turpin, Jonathan
Wild, and Jack Sheppard, those knights of the
road and of the town, whose peculiar chivalry
formed at once the dread and the delight of Eng-
land during the eighteenth century ? Turpin•s fame
is unknown to no portion of the male population
of England after they have attained the age of
ten. His wondrous ride from London to York
206 POPULAR ADMIRATION FOR
has endeared him to the imagination of millions ;
his cruelty in placing an old woman upon a fire,
to force her to tell him where she had hidden
her money, is regarded as a good joke; and his
proud bearing upon the scaffold is looked upon as
o virtuous action. The Abbe le Blanc, writing in
1787, says he was continually entertained with
stories of Turpin- how, when he robbed gentle-
men, l1e would generously leave them enough to
continue their journey, and exact a pledge from
them never to inform against him, and how acru-
pulous such gentlemen were in keeping their word.
He was one day told a story with which the re-
lator was in the highest degree delighted. Turpin,
or some other noted robber, stopped a man whom
he knew to be very rich, with the usual salutation
-" Your money or your life!" but not finding
more than five or six guineas about him, he took
the liberty of entreating him, in the most affable
manner, never to come out so ill provided; adding
that, if he fell in with him, and he had no more
than such a paltry sum, he would give him a good
licking. Another story, told by one of T~rpin'a
admirers, was of a robbery he had committed upon
a Mr. C. near Cambridge. He took from this gen-
tleman his watch, his snuff-box, and aU his money
but two shillings, and, before he left him, required
his word of honour that he would not cause him
to be pursued or brought before a justice. The
promise being given, they both parted very cour-
GREAT THIEVES. 207
teously. They afterwards met at Newmarket, and
renewed their acquaintance. Mr. C. kept his word
religiously; be not only refrained from giving Tur-
pin into custody, but made a boast that he had
fairly won some of his money back again in an
honest way. Turpin offered to bet with him on
some favourite horse, and Mr. C. accepted the
wager with as good a grace as he could have
done from the best gentleman in England. Tur-
pin lost his bet and paid it immediately, and was
so smitten with the generous behaviour of Mr. C.
that he told him how deeply be regretted that the
trifling affair which had happened between them
did not permit them to drink together. The nar-
rator of this anecdote was quite proud that Eng-
land was the birthplace ofsuch a highwayman.•
• The Abbe, in the second volume, in the letter No. 79, ad-
dressed to Monsieur de Buffon, gives the following curious particu-
lars ofthe robbers of 1787, which are not without inte.rest at this
day, ifit were only to show the vast improvement which bas taken
place since that period:- " It is usual, in travelling, to put ten or
a dozen guineas in a separate pocket, as a tribute to the first that
comes to demBlld them: the right of passport, which custom has
established here in favour of the robbers, who are almost the only
highway, surveyors in England, has made this necessary; and ac-
cordingly the E11glish call these fellows the • Gentlemen of the
Road,' the government letting them exercise their jurisdiction upon
travellers without giving them any great molestation. To say the
truth, they content themselves with only taking the money of
those who obey without disputing; but notwithstanding their
boasted humanity, the lives of those who endeavour to get away
are not always aafe. They are very strict and severe in levying
their impost; and if a man has not wherewithal to pay them, he
208 POPULAR ADMIRATION FOR ·
Not less familiar to the people of England is
the career of Jack Sheppard, as brutal a ruffian
as ever disgraced his country, but who has claims
upon the popular admiration which are very ge-
nerally acknowledged. He did not, like Robin
Hood, plunder the rich to relieve the poor, nor
rob with an uncouth sort of courtesy, like Turpin;
but he escaped from Newgate with the fetters on
his limbs. This achievement, more than once
repeated, has encircled his felon brow with the
wreath of immortality, and made him quite a
pattern thief among the populace. He was no
more than twenty-three years of age at the time
of his execution, and he died much pitied by the
crowd. His adventures were the sole topics of
conversation for months ; . the print-shops were
filled with his effigies, and a fine painting of
him was made by Sir Richard Thornhill. The
following complimentary verses to the artist ap-
peared in the u British Journal" of November
28th, 1724.
may run the chance of getting himself lmoclced on the head for hia
poverty.
•• About fifteen yean ago, these r"Obbers, with the view of main-
taining their rights, fixed up papers at the doors of rich people
about London, eXpresslyforbidding all persons, of whatsoever qua-
lity or condition, from going out of town without ten guineas and
a watch about them, on pain ofdeath. In bad times~ when there
is little or nothing to be got on the roads, these fellows assemble in
gangs, to taise contributions even in London itself; and the watch-
men seldom trouble themselves to interfere with them in their
vocation."
GREAT THIEVES.
" Thornhill ! 'tis thine to gild with fame
Th' obacure, and raise the humble name:
To make the fonn elude the grave,
And Sheppard from oblivion save I
Apelles Alexander drew-
Cesar is to Aurelius due;
Cromwell in Lilly's works doth shine,
And Sheppard, Thornhill, lives in thine !"
209
So high was Jack's fame that a pantomime en·
tertainment, called "Harlequin Jack Sheppard,"
was devised by one Thurmond, and brought out
with great success at Drury Lane Theatre. All
·the scenes were painted from nature, including the
public-house that the robber frequented in Clare-
market, and the condemned cell from which he
bad made his escape in Newgate.
The,Rev. Mr. Villette, the editor of the u Annals
of Newgate," published in 1754, relates a curious
sermon which, be says, a friend of his heard de-
livered by a street-preacher about the time of
Jack's execution. The orator, after animadvert-
ing on the great care men took of their bodies,
and the little care they bestowed upon their
souls, continued as follows, by way of exemplify-
ing the position :-" We have a remarkable in-
stance of this in a notorious malefactor, well known
by the name of Jack Sheppard. What amazing
difficulties bas be overcome I what astonishing
things· has he performed ! and all for the sake of
a stinking, miserable carcass, hardly worth the
hanging! How dexterously did be pick the chain
of his p~dlock with a crooked nail! how manfully
VOL. I. p
210 POPULAR ADMIRATION FOR
he burst his fetters asunder !-climb up the chim-
ney ! - wrench out an iron bar ! -break his way
through a stone wall t -make the strong door of
a dark entry fly before him, till he got upon the
leads of the prison r then, fixing a blanket to the
wall with a spike, he stole out of the chapel. How
intrepidly did he descend to the·top 'of the turner's
house!- how cautiously pass down the stair, and
make his escape to the street door t ·
u Oh! that ye were all like Jack Sheppard I
Mistake me not, my brethren; I don't mean in a
carnal, but in a spiritual sense, for I propose to
spiritualise these things. What a shame it would
be if we should not think it worth our while to
take as much pains, and employ as many deep
thoughts, to save. our souls: as he has done to
preserve·his body t
" Let me exhort ye, then, to open the lo.cks
of your hearts with the llail of repentance! Buft\t
asunder the fetters of your beloved lusts ! - mount
the chimney of hope!- take from.thence. the bar.
of good resolution I-. break through the stone waU
of despair, and all the strongholds in the dark
entry of the valley of the shadow ofdeath ! Raise
yourselves to t.he leads of divine .meditation!.- fix
the blanket of faith with the spike of the church.!
let yourselves down to the turner's house of re..
signation, and descend the stairs of humility t So
shall you come to the door of deliverance from
the prison of iniquity, and escape the clutches of
that old executioner the Devil f "
But popular as the name of Jack Sheppard was
< '' I
GREAT THIEVES. 211
immediately after he had suffered the last penalty
of his crimes, it was as nothing compared to the
vast renown which he has acquired in these latter
days, after the lapse of a century and a quarter.
Poets too often, are not fully appreciated till they
have been dead a hundred years, and thieves, it
would appear, share the disadvantage. But pos-
terity is grateful if our contemporaries are not;
and Jack Sheppard, faintly praised in his own day,
shines out in ours the hero of heroes, preeminent
above all his fellows. Thornhill made but one pic-.
ture of the illustrious robber, but Cruikshank has
made dozens, and the art of the engraver bas mul-
tiplied them into thousands and tens of.thoulnlnds~.
until the populace of England have become as fa...
miliar with Jack's features as they are with their
own. Jack, the romantic, is· the hero of thr~
goodly volumes, and the delight of the circulating
libraries ; and the theatres have been smitten with
the universal enthusiasm. Managers have set their
playmongers at work, and Jack's story has been re-
produced in the shape of drama, melodrama; and
farce, at half a dozen places of entertainment at
once. Never was such a display of popular regard
for a hero as was exhibited in London in 1840 for
the renowned Jack Sheppard·: robbery acquired
additional lustre in the popular eye, and- not only
Englishmen, but foreigners, caught the contagion ;
and one of the latter, fired by the example, robbed
and murdered a venerable, unoffending, and too
confiding nobleman, whom it was his especial duty
to have obeyed and protected. But he was a
p 2
212 POPULAR ADMIRATION FOR
coward and a wretch ; -it was a solitary crime -
he had not made a daring escape from dungeon
walls, or ridden from London to York, and he died
amid the execrations of the people, affording a
melancholy exemplification of the 'trite remark, that
every man is not great who is desirous of being so.
Jonathan Wild, whose name bas been immor-
talised by Fielding, was no favourite with the
people. He had none of the virtues which, com-
bined with crimes, make up the character of the
great thief. He was a pitiful feUow, who informed
against his comrades, and was afraid of death.
This meanness was not to be forgiven by the
crowd, and they pelted him with dirt and stones
on his way to Tyburn, and expressed their con-
tempt by every possible means. How different
was their conduct to Turpin and Jack Sheppard,
who died in their neatest attire, with nosegays
in their button-holes, and with the courage that
a crowd expects! It was anticipated that the body
of Turpin would have been delivered up to the
surgeons for dissection, and the people seeing some
men very busily employed in removing it, suddenly
set upon them, rescued the body, bore it about
the town in triumph, and then buried it in a very
deep grave, filled with quick-lime, to hasten the
progress of decomposition. They would not suffer
the corpse of their hero, of the man who had
ridden from London to York in four-and.twenty
hours to be mangled by the rude hands of un-
mannerly surgeons.
The death of Claude Duval would appear to
GREAT THIEVES. 213
have been no Jess triumphant. Claude was a gen·
tlemanly thief. According to Butler, in the famous
ode to his memory, he
" Taught the wild Arabs of the road
To rob in a more gentle mode;
Take prizes more obligingly than those
Who never had breen bredjilot.U;
And how to hang in a more graceful fashion
Than e'er waa known before to the dull English nation.''
In fact, he was the pink of politeness, and his gal-
lantry to the fair sex was proverbial. When he
was caught at last, pent in " stone walls and
chains and iron grates,"- their grief was in pro-
portion to his rare merits and his great fame.
Butler says, that to his dungeon
" - - came ladies from all parts,
To offer up close prisoners their hearts,
Which he received aa tribute due-
• • • •
Never did ~ld knight, to relieve
Dietreued dames, such dreadful feats achiev~
As feeble damsels, for his sake,
Would have been proud to Wldertake.
And, bravely ambitious to redeem
The world's loas and their own,
Strove who should have the honour to lay down,
And change a life with him.''
Among the noted thieves of France, there is
none to compare with the famous Aimerigo~ T~te­
noire, who flourished in the reign of Charles VI.
This fellow was at the head of four or five hundred
men, and possessed two very strong castles in Li-
m~usm and Auvergne. There was a good deal of
214 POPULAR ADMIRATION FOR
the feudal baron about him, although ·he possessed
no revenues but such as the road afforded him.
At his death be left a singular will. ~~I give
and bequeath," said the robber, 11
one thousand
·five hundred francs to St. George's Chapel, for
such repairs as it may need. To my sweet girl
who so tenderly loved me, I give two thousand' five
hundred ; and the surplus I give to my compa-
nions. I hope they will all live as brothers, and
divide it amicably among tbem. If they cannot
agree, and the devil of contention gets .among
them, it is no fault of mine; and I advise them
to get a good strong, sharp axe, and break open
my strong box. Let them scramble for what it
contains, and the Devil seize the hindmost." The
people of Auvergne still recount with admiration
the daring feats of this brigand.
Of later years, the French thieves have been
such unmitigated scoundrels as to have left but
little room for popular admiration. The famous
Cartouche, whose name has be~ome synonymous
with ruffian in their language, had none of the
generosity, courtesy, and devoted bravery which
are so requisite to make a robber-hero. He was
born at Paris, towards the end of the seven-
teenth century, and broken alive on the wheel in
November 1727. He was, however, sufficiently
popular to have been pitied at his death, and after-
wards to have formed the subject of a much ad-
mired drama, which here his name, and was played
with great success in all the theatres of France
during the years 1734, 5, and 6. In our own d'!'Y
l.
•
,( J'.'1
GREAT THIEVES. 215
the French have been more fortunate in a robber ;
Vidocq bids fair to rival the fame of Turpin and
Jack Sheppard. Already he has become the hero
of many an apocryphal tale- already his com-
patriots boast of his manifold achievements, and
express their doubts whether any other country in
Europe could produce a thief so clever, so accom..
p1ished, so gentlemanly, as Vidocq.
Germany has its Schinderbannes, Hungary its
Schubry, and Italy and Spain a whole host of
brigands, whose names and exploits are familiar
aa household words in the mouths of the children
and populace of those countries.
The Italian banditti are renowned over the
world ; and many of theD,l are not only very re-
ligious (after a fashion), but very charitable. Cha-
rity from such a source is so unexpected, that
the people dote upon them for it. One of them,
when be fell into the hands of the police, ex-
claimed, as they led him away, "Ho fatto piu
carita!,- 41
I have given away more in charity than
any three convents in these provinces." Aud the
fellow spoke truth.
In Lombardy, the people cherish the memory
of two notorious robbers, who 1lourished about
two centuries ago under the Spanish government.
Their story, according to Macfarlane, is contained
in a little book well known to all the children of
the province, and read by them with much more
gusto than their Bibles.
Schinderhannes, the robber of the Rhine, is a
great favourite on the banks of the river which
",.
I
!16 POPULAR .A>DlJlRATION fOR
be so long ·kept in awe. Many amusing storit!s
are related by the peasantry of the scurvy tricks
he played oft' upon rich Jews, or too-presuming offi-
cers ofjustice-of his princely generosity, and un-
daunted courage. In short, they are proud of him,
and would no more consent to have the memory
of his achievements dissociated from their river
than they would to have the rock of Ehrenbreit.
stein blown to atoms by gunpowder.
There is another robber-hero, of whose character
and exploits the people of Germany speak admir-
ingly. Mausch Nadel was captain of a consider-
able band that infested the Rhine, Switzerland,
AJsatia, and Lorraine during the years 182,, 5,
and 6. Like Jack Sheppard, he endeared himself
to the populace by his most hazardous escape from
prison. Being confined, at Bremen, in a dungeon,
on the third story of the prison of that town. he
contrived to let himself down without exciting the
vigilance of the sentinels, and to swim across the
Weser, though heavily laden with irons. When
about half way over, be was espied by a sentinel,
who fired at him, and shot him in the calf of
the leg: but the undaunted robber struck out man-
fully, reached the shore, and was out of sight before
the officers ofjustice could get ready their boats to
follow him. He was captured again in 1826, tried
at Mayence, and sentenced to death. He was a
tall, strong, handsome man, and his fate, vilJain as
be was, excited much sympathy all over· Germany.
The ladies especially were loud in their regret that
nothing could be done to save a hero so good.Iook-
GREAT THIEVES. 217
ing, and of adventures so romantic, from the knife
of the headsman.
Mr. Macfarlane, in speaking ofItalianbanditti,re-
marks, that the abuses of the Catholic religion, with
its confessions and absolutions, have tended to pro-
mote crime of this description. But, he adds, more
truly, that priests and monks have not done half
the mischief which has been perpetrated by ballad-
mongers and story-tellers. If he had said play-
wrights also, the list would have been complete.·
In fact, the theatre, which can only expect to pro-
sper, in a pecuniary sense, by pandering to the tastes
of the people, continually recurs to the-annals of
thieves and banditti for its most favourite heroes.
These theatrical robbers, with their picturesque
attire, wild haunts, jolly, reckless, devil-may-care
manners, take a wonderful hold upon the imagina-
tion, and, whatever their advocates may say to the
contrary, exercise a very pernicious influence upon
public morals. In the Memoirs of the Duke of
Guise upon the Revolution of Naples in 1647 and
1648, it is stated, that the manners, dress, and
mode of life of the Neapolitnn banditti were ren-
dered so captivating upon the stage, that the
authorities found it absolutely necessary to forbid
the representation of dramas in which they figured,
and even to prohibit their costume at the masque-
rades. So numerous were the banditti at this time,
that the Duke found no difficulty in raising an
army of them, to aid him in his endeavours to seize
on ~e throne of N~pies. He thus describes them ;•
• See also" Foreign Quarterly Review,'' vol. iy. P• :S98.
218 POPULAR ADMfR.ATION FOR
" They were three thousand five hundred men, of
whom the oldest came short of five.and forty years,
and the youngest wns above twenty. They were
all tall and well made, with long black hair, for the
most part curled, coats of black Spanish leather,
with sleeves of velvet, or cloth of gold, cloth
breeches with gold lace, most of them scarlet ;
girdles of velvet, laced with gold, with two pistols
en each side; .a cutlass banging at a belt, suitably
trimmed, three fingers broad and two feet long; a
hawking-bag at their girdle, an·d a powder-flask
hung about their neck with a great silk riband.
Some of them carried firelocks, and others blunder-
busses ; they had all good shoes, with silk stock-
ings, and every one.&cap of cloth of gold, or cloth
of silver, ·of different colours, on his head, which
was very delightful to the eye."
" The Beggars' Opera,'' -in our own country, is
another instance of the admiration that thieves ex-
cite upon the stage. ·Of the extraordinary success
of this piece, when first produced, the following
account is given in the notes to .. The Dunciad,"
and quoted by Johnson in his 11
Lives of the
Poets." u This piece was·received with greater
applause than was ever known. · Besides being acted
in London sixty-three days without interruption,
and renewed the next season with equal applause,
it spread into all the great towns of England; was
played in many places to .the thirtieth and fortieth
time; at Bath and Bristol, &c. fifty. It made its
progress into Wales, Scotland, and Ireland, where
it was performed twenty-four days successively.
GREAT THIEVES. 219
The ladies carried about with them the favourite
songs of it in fans, and houses were furnished with
it in screens. The fame of it was not confined
to the author only. The person who acted Polly,
till then obscure, became all at once the favourite
of the town;* her pictures were engraved and sold
in great numbers; her life written, books of letters
and verseB to her published, and pamphlets made .
even of 'her sayings and jests. Furthermore, it
drove out of England, for that season, the Italian
Opera. which had carried all before it for ten
years." Dr. 1ohnson, in his Life of the Author,
says, that Herring7 afterwards Archbishop of Can-
tetbury, censured the opera, as giving encourage-
ment, not only to vice, but to crimes, by making the
highwayman the hero, and dismissing him at last
unpunished ; and adds, that it was even said, that
after the exhibition the gangs of robbers were evi-
dently multiplied. The Doctor doubts the asser-
tion, giving as his reason that highwaymen and
housebreakers seldom frequent the playhouse, and
that it was not possible for any one to imagine that
be might rob with safety, because he saw Macbeath
reprieved upon the stage. But if Johnson bad
wished to be convinced, he might very easily have
discovered that highwaymen and housebreakers did
frequent the theatre, and that nothing was more
probable than that a laughable representation of
sueces.
sful villany should induce the young and the
already vicious to imitate it. Besides, there is the
weighty authority of Sir John Fielding, the chief
• Lavinia Fenton, afierwards Ducben of Bolton.
220 POPULAR ADMIRATION FOR
magistrate of Bow Street, who asserted p'ositively,
and proved his assertion by the records of his office,
that the number of thieves was greatly increased at
the time when that opera was so popular.
We have another_instance of the same result
much nearer our own times. Schiller's •• Raiiber,"
that wonderful play, written by a green youth, per-
verted the taste and imagination of all the young
men in Germany. An accomplished critic of our
own country (Hazlitt), speaking of this play, says
it was the first he ever read, and such was the
effect it produced on him, that •• it stunned him,
like a blow." After the lapse of five-and-twenty
years he could not forget it; it was still, to use his
own words, " an old dweller in the chambers of his
brain," and he had not even then recovered enough
from it, to describe how it was. The high-minded,
metaphysical thief, its hero, was so warmly ad-
mired, that several raw students, longing to imitate
a character they thought so noble, actually aban-
doned their homes and their colleges, and betook
themselves to the forests and wilds to levy con-
tributions upon travellers. They thought they
would, like Moor, plunder the rich, and deliver
eloquent soliloquies to the setting sun or the ris·
ing moon ; relieve the poor when they met them,
and drink flasks of Rhenish with their free com-
panions in rugged mountain passes, or in tents in
the thicknesses of the forests. But a little ex-
perience wonderfully cooled their courage ; they
found that real, every-day ro~bers were very unlike
the conventional banditti of the stage, and that ·
three months in prison, with bread and water for
GREAT TIIIEVES.
their fare, and dnmp straw to lie upon, was very well
to read about by their own fire sides, but not very
agreeable to undergo in their own proper persons.
Lord Byron, with his soliloquising, high-souled
thieves, has, in a slight degree, perverted the
taste of the greenhorns and incipient rhymesters
of his country. As yet, however, they have shown
more good sense than their fellows of Germany,
and have not taken to the woods or the high-
ways. Much as they admire Conrad the Corsair,
they will not go to sea, and hoist the black flag
in emulation of him. By words only, and not by
deeds, they testify their admiration, and deluge the
periodicals aud music shops of the land with verses
describing pirates' and bandits' brides, and robber
adventures of every kind.
But it is the play-wright who does most harm ;
and Byron has fewer sins ofthis nature to answerfor
than Gay or Schiller, and the modern dramatizers
of Jack Sheppard. With the aid of scenery, fine
dresses, and music, and the very false notions they
convey, they vitiate the public taste, not knowing,
"-- vulgaires rimeurs !
QueUe force ont lea arts pour demolir lea mreurs."
In the penny theatres that abound in the poor
and populous districts of London, and which are
chiefly frequented by striplings of idle and dissolute
habits, tales of thieves and murderers are more
'
admired, and draw more crowded audiences, than
any other species of representation. There the
footpad, the burglar, and the highwayman are
portrayed in unnatural colours, and give plea·
sant lessons in crime to their delighted listeners.
222 POPULAR ADMIRATION FOR GREAT THIEVES.
There the deepest tragedy and the broadest farce
are represented in the career of the murderer and
the thief, and are applauded in proportion to their
depth and their breadth. There, whenever a crime
of unusual atrocity is committed, it is brought out
afresh, with all its disgusting incidents copied from
the life, for the amusement of those who will one
day become its imitators.
With the mere reader the case is widely dif-
ferent ; and most people have a partiality for know-
ing the adventures of noted rogues. Even in fie.
tion they are delightful : witness the eventful story
of Gil }Jlas de Santillane, and of that great rascal
Don Guzman d'Alfarache. Here there is no fear
of imitation. Poets, too, without doing mischief,
may sing of such heroes when they please, waken-
ing our sympathies for the sad fate of Gilderoy,
or Macpherson the Dauntless ; or celebrating in
undying verse the wrongs and the revenge of the
great thief of Scotland, Rob Roy. If, by the music
of their sweet rhymes, they can convince the world
that such heroes are but mistaken philosophers,
born a few ages too late, and having both a theo-
retical and practical love for
" The good old rule, the simple plan,
That they should take who have tbe power,
That they should keep who can,"
the world may, perhaps, become wiser, and con-
sent to some better distribution of its good things,
by means of which thieves may become reconciled
to the age, and the age to them. The probability,
however, seems to be, that the charmers will charm
in vain, charm they ever so wisely. .
INFLUENCE oF POLITICS AND RELIGION
ON THE
HAIR AND BEARD.
Speak with respect and honour
Both ofthe beard and the beard's owner.
·HUDIBIUS.
THE famous declaration of St. Paul, u that long
hair was a shame unto a man" bas been made the
pretext for many singular enactments, both of civil
and ecclesiastical governments. The fashion of the
bair and the cut of the beard were state questions
in France and England from the establishment·of
Christianity until the fifteenth century.
We find, too, that in much earlier times melt
were not permitted to do as they liked with their
own hair. Alexander the Great thought that the
beards of his soldiery afforded convenient handles
fot the enemy to lay hold of, preparatory to cutting
off their heads; and, with the view of depriving
them of this advantage, he ordered the whole of
his army to be closely shaven. His notions of cour-
tesy towards an enemy were quite different from
those entertained by the North American Indians,
224 INFLUENCE OF POLITICS AND RELIGION
amongst whom it is held a point of honour to allow
one u chivalrous lock, to grow, that the foe, in
taking the scalp, may have something to catch ·
hold of.
At one time, long hair was the symbol of sove-
reignty in Europe. We learn from Gregory of
Tours that, among the successors of Clovis, it was
the exclusive privilege of the royal family to have
their hair long, and curled. The nobles, equal to
kings in power, would not show any inferiority in
this respect, and wore not only their hair, but their
beards, of an enormous length. This fashion lasted,
with but slight changes, till the time of Louis the
Debonnaire, but his successors, up to Hugh Capet,
wore their hair short, by way of distinction. Even
the serfs l1ad set all regulation at defiance, and
allowed their locks and beards to grow.
At the time of the invasion of England by Wil-
liam the Conqueror, the Normans wore their hair
very short. Harold. in his progress towards Hast-
ings, sent forward spies to view the strength and
number of the enemy. They reported, amongst
other things, on their return, that u the host did
almost seem to be priests, because they had all
their face and both their lips shaven.'' The fashion
among the English at the time was to wear the hair
long upon the head and the upper lip, but to shave
the chin. When the haughty victors had divided
the broad lands of the Saxon thanes and franklins
among them, when tyranny of every kind was em-
\
)
ON THE HAIR AND BEARD. 225
ployed to make the English feel that they were
indeed a subdued and broken nation, the lat.ter
encouraged the growth of their hair, that they
might resemble as little as possible their cropped
and shaven masters.
This fashion was exceedingly displeasing to the
clergy, and prevailed to a considerable extent in
France and Germany. Towards the end of the
eleventh century, it was decreed by the Pope, and
zealously supported by the ecclesiastical authorities
all over Europe, that such person11 as wore long
hair should be excommunicated while living, and
not be prayed for when dead. William of Malmes-
bury relates, that the famous St. W ulstan, Bishop
of Worcester, was peculiarly indignant whenever
he saw a man with long hair. He declaimed
against the practice as one highly immoral, criminal,
and beastly. He continually carried a small knife
in his pocket, and whenever anybody, offending in
this respect, knelt before him to receive his bless-
ing, be would whip it out slily, and cut off a hand-
ful, and then, throwing it in his face, tell him to
cut ofF all the rest, or he would go to l1ell.
But fashion,_which at times it is possible to
move with a wisp, stands firm against a lever; and
men preferred to run the risk ofdamnation to part-
ing with the superfluity of their hair. In the time
of Henry I, Anselm, Archbishop of Canterbury,
found it necessary to republish the famous decree of
excommunication and outlawry against the offend-
VOL. I. Q
2,26 I~FLUENCE OF POLITICS AND RELIGION
ers ; but, as the court itself had begun to patronize
curls, the fulminations of the church were unavail·
ing. Henry I. and his nobles wore their hair in
long ringlets down their backs and shoulders, and
became a scandalum magnatum in the eyes of the
godly. One Serlo, the King's chaplain, was so
grieved in spirit at the impiety of his master, that
he preached a sermon from the well-known text of
St. Paul, before the assembled court, in which he
drew so dreadful a picture of the torments that
awaited them in the other world, that several of
them burst into tears, and wrung their hair, as if
they would have pulled it out by the roots. Henry
himself was observed to weep. The priest, seeing
the impression he had made, determined to strike
while the iron was hot, and, pulling a pair of
scissors from his pocket, cut the king's hair in pre-
sence of them all. Several of the principal cour-
tiers consented to do the like, and, for a short time,
long hair appeared to begoing out of fashion. But
the courtiers thought, after the first glow of their
penitence had been cooled by reflection, that the
clerical Dalilah had shorn them of their strength,
and, in less than six months, they were as great
sinners as ever.
Anselm, the Archbishop of Canterbury, who bad
been a monk of Bee, in Normandy, and who had
signalized himself at Rouen by his fierce opposition
to long hair, was still anxious to work a reforma-
tion in this matter. But his pertinacity was far
ON THE HAIR AND BEARD. 227
from pleasing to the King, who had finally made
up his mind to wear ringlets. There were other
disputes, of a more serious nature, between them;
so that when the Archbishop died, the King was so
glad to be rid of him, that he allowed the see to
remain vacant for five years. Still the cause had
other advocates, and every pulpit in the land re·
sounded with anathemas against that disobedient.
and long-haired generation. But all was of no
avail. Stowe, in writing of this period, asserts, on
the authority of some more ancient chronicler,
"that men, forgetting their birth, transformed them-
selves, by the length of their haires, into the sem-
blance of woman kind ;,. and that when their h&ir
decayed from age, or other caUBes, H they knit
about their heads certain rolls and braiding~ offalse
hair." At last accident turned the tide of fashion.
A knight of the court, who was exceedingly proud
of his beauteous locks, dreamed one niglat that, as
he lay in bed, the devil sprang upon him, and
endeavoured to choke him with his own hair. He
stayted in affright, and actually found that be had
a great quantity of hair in his mouth. Sorely
stricken in conscience, and looking upon the dream
as a warningfrom Heaven, be set about the work of
reformation, and cut off his. luxuriant tresses the
same night. The story was soon bruited abroad ;
of course it was made the most of by the clergy,
and the knight, being a man of lDfluence and con-
IRderatioJJ, and the acknowledged leader of the
Q i
228 INFLUENCE OF POLITICS AND RELIGION
fashion, his example, aided by priestly exhortations,
was very generally imitated. .Men appeared almost
as decent as St.Wulstan himselfcould have wished,
the dream of a dandy having proved more effica-
cious than the entreaties of a saint. But, as Stowe
informs us, "scarcely was one year past, when all
that thought themselves courtiers fell into the
former vice, and contended with women in their
long haires!' Henry, the King, appears to have
been quite uninfluenced by the dreams of others,
for even his own would not induce him a second
time to undergo a cropping from priestly shears.
It is said, that he was much troubled at this time
by disagreeable visions. Having offended the
church in this and other respects, he could get no
sound refreshing sleep, and used to imagine that
he saw all the bishops, abbots, and monks of every
.degree, standing around his bed-side, and threat-
.ening to belabour him with their pastoral staves;
which sight, we are told, so frightened him, that
he often started naked out of his bed, and attacked
.the phantoms sword in hand. Grimbalde, his phy-
sician, who, like most of his fraternity at that day,
was an ecclesiastic, never hinted that his dreams
were the result of a bad digestion, but told him to
.shave his head, be reconciled to the Church, and re-
form himself with alms and prayer. But he would
not take this good advice, and it was not until he
had been nearly drowned a year afterwards, in a
violent storm at sea, that he repented of his evil
ON THE HAIR AND BEARD. 229
ways, cut his hair short, and paid proper deference
to the wishes of the clergy.
In France, the thunders of the Vatican with re-
gard to long curly hair were hardly more respected
than in England. Louis VII. however, was more
obedient than his brother-king, and cropped him-
self as closely as a monk, to the great sorrow of
all the gallants of his court. His Queen, the gay.
haughty, and pleasure-seeking Eleanor of Guienne,
never admired him in this trim, and continually
reproached him with imitating, not only the bead-
dress, but the asceticism of the monks. From this
cause, a coldness arose between them. The lady
proving at last unfaithful to her shaven and in-
different lord, they were divorced, and the Kings
of France lost the rich provinces of Guienne and
Poitou, which were her dowry. She soon after
bestowed her band and her possessions upon Henry
Duke of Normandy, afterwards Henry II. of Eng-
land, and thus g.ave. the English sovereigns that
strong footing in France which was for so many
centuries the cause ·of such long and bloody wars
between the nations.
When the Crusades had drawn all the smart
young fellows into Palestine, the clergy did not
find it so difficult to convince the staid burghers
who remained in Europe, of the enormity of long
hair. During the absence of Richard Creur de
Lion, his English subjects not only cut their hair
close, but shaved their faces. William Fitzosbert,
280 INFLUENCE OF POLITICS AND RELIGION
or Long-beard, the great demagogue of that day,
reintroduced among the people who claimed to be
of Saxon origin the fashion of long hair. He did
this with the view of making them as unlike.as
possible to the citizens and the Normans. He
wore his own beard hanging down to his waist,
from whence the name by which he is best known.
to posterity.
The Church never showed itself so great an
enemy to the beard as to long hair on the head.
It generally allowed fashion to take its own course,
both with regard to the chin and the upper lip.
This fashion varied continually ; for we lind that,
in little more than a century afte1· the time of
Richard I, when beards were short, that they had
again become so long as to be mentioned in the
famous epigram made by the Scots who visited
London in 1327, when David, son of Robert Bruce,
was married to Joan, the sister of King Edward.
This epigram, which was stuck on the church-door
of St. Peter Stangate, ran as follows -
" Long beards heart.leeee,
Painted hoods witlesse.
Gray coats gmcelesse,
Make England thriftlesae."
When the Emperor Charles V. ascended the
throne of Spain, he had no beard. It was not
to be expected that the obsequious parasites who
ulways surround a monarch, could presume to look
more virile than their master. Immediately all
QN THE HAIR AND BEAIID. 231
the courtiers .-ppeared beardless, with the excep-
tion of such few grave old men as had outgrown
the influence of fashion, and who had determined
to die bearded as they had lived. Sober people in
general saw this revolution with sorrow and alarm,
and thought that every manly virtue would be ba-
nis.hed with the beard. It became at the time a
common saying,-
" Desde que no hay barba, no hay mas alma."
We have no longer souls since we have lost our beards.
In France, also, the beard fell into disrepute
after the death of Henry IV, from the mere reason
that his successor was too young to have one.
Some of the more immediate friends of the great
Bearnais, and his minister Sully among the rest,
refused to part with their beards, notwithstanding
the jeers of the new generation.
Who does not remember the division of England .
into the two great parties of Roundheads and
Cavaliers? In those days, every species of vice
and iniquity was thought by the Puritans to lurk
in the long curly tresses of the Monarchists, while
the latter imagined that their opponents were as
destitute of wit, of wisdom, and of virtue, as they
were of hair. A man's locks were the symbol of
his creed, both in politics and religion. The more
abundant the hair, the more scant the faith; and
the balder the head, the more sincere the piety.
But among all the instances of the interference
232 INfLUENCE OF POLITICS AND RELIGION
of governments with men's hair, the most extra-
ordinary, not only for its daring, but for its suc-
cess is that of Peter the Great, in 1705. By this
time, fashion had condemned the beard in every
other country in Europe, and with a voice more
potent than Popes or Emperors, had banished it
from civilized society. But this only made the
Russians cling more fondly to their ancient orna..:
ment, as a mark to distinguish them from fo-
reigners, whom they hated. Peter, however re-
solved that they should be shaven. If he had been
a man deeply read in history, he might nave besi-
tated before he attempted so despotic an attack
upon the time-hallowed customs and prejudices of
his countrymen ; but he was not. - He did not know
or consider the danger of the innovation ; be only
listened to the promptings of his own indomitable
will, and his fiat went forth, that not only the
army, but all ranks of citizens, from the nobles
to the serfs, should shave their beards. A certain
time was given, that people might get over the first
throes of their repugnance, after which every man
who chose to retain his beard was to pay a tax
of one hundred roubles. The priests and the serfs
were put on a lower footing, and allowed to retain
theirs upon payment of a copeck every time they
passed the gate of a city. Great discontent ex-
isted in. consequence, but the dreadful fate of the
Strelitzes was too recent to be forgotten, and thou-
$ands who had tbe -
will had not the courage to
ON THE HAIR AND BEARD. i88
revolt. As is well remarked by a writer in the
" Encyclopedia Britannica:' they thought it wiser
to cut off their beards than to run the risk of in-
censing a man who would make no scruple in cut-
ting oif their heads. Wiser, too, than the popes
and bishops of a former age, he did not threaten
them with eternal damnation, but made them pay
in hard cash the penalty of their disobedience. For
many years, a very considerable revenue was col-
lected from this source. The collectors gave in
receipt for its,payment a small copper coin, struck
expressly for the purpose, and called the " horo-
dovaio," or ,. the bearded." On one side it bore the
figure of a nose, mouth, and moustachios, with a
long bushy beard, surmounted by the words, ., Deu-
yee Vyeotee," "money received;" the whole encircled
by a wreath, and stamped wit~ the black eagle of
Russia. On the reverse, it bore the date of the
year. Every man who chose to wear a beard was
obliged to produce this receipt on his entry into
a town. Those who were refractory, and refused
to pay the tax, were thrown into prison.
Since that day, the rulers of modem Europe
have endeavoured to persuade, rather than to force,
in all matters pertaining to fashion. The Vatican
troubles itself no more about beards or ringlets,
and men may become hairy as bears, .if such is
their fancy, without fear of excommunication or
deprivation of their Jlolitical rights. Folly has
taken a new start, and cultivates the moustachio.
iS' INFLUENCE OF POLITICS AND REI.IGION
Even upon this point governments will not let
men alone. Religion as yet has not meddled with
it; but perhaps it will; and politics already in-
fluence it considerably. Before the revolution of
· 1880, neither the French nor Belgian citizens were
remarkable for their moustachios ; but, after that
event, there was hardly a 11hopkeeper either in
Paris or Brussels whose upper lip did not suddenly
become hairy with real or mock moustachios.
During a temporary triumph gained by the Dutch
soldiers over the citizens of Louvain, in October
18806 it became a standing joke against the pa-
triots, that they shaved their faces clean imme-
diately; and the wits of the Dutch army asserted,
that they had gathered moustachios enough from
the denuded lips of the Belgians to stufF mattresses
for all the sick and wounded in their hospital.
The last folly of this kind is still more recent.
In the German newspapers, of August 1888, ap-
peared an ordonnance, signed by the King ofBa-
varia, forbidding civilians, on any pretence what-
ever, to wear moustachios, and commanding the
police and other authorities to arrest, and cause to
be shaved, the offending parties. "Strange to say,,.
adds " Le Droit," the journal from which this ac-
count is taken, "moustacbios disappeared imme-
diately, like leaves from the trees in autumn; every-
body made haste to obey the Toyal order, and not
one person was arr~sted.
The King of Bavaria, a rhymester of some cele-
n '1
I
ON THE HAIR AND BEARD. 285
brity, has taken a good many poetical licences in
his time. His licence in this matter appears neither
poetical nor reasonable. It is to be hoped that he
will not take it into his royal head to make his
subjects shave theirs; nothing but that is wanting
to complete their degradation.
~S6
DUELS AND ORDEALS.
There wu an ancient sage philosopher,
Who swore the world, 88 he could prove,
W88 mad offighting. • • •
HUDJ111U8.
MosT writers, in accounting for the origin of
duelling, derive it from the warlike habits of those
barbarous nations who overran Europe in the early
centuries of the Christian era, and who knew no
mode so effectual for settling their differences as
the point of the sword. In fact, duelling, taken
in its primitive and broadest sense, means nothing
more than combatting, and is the universal resort
of all wild animals, including man, to gain or de-
fend their possessions, or avenge their insults. Two
dogs who tear each other for a bone, or two ban-
tams fighting on a dunghill for the love of some
beautiful hen, or two fools on Wimbledon Common,
shooting at each other to satisfy the laws of offend-
ed honour, stand on the same footing in this re-
spect, and are, each and all, mere duellists. As
civilization advanced, the best informed men natll;-
rally grew ashamed of such a mode of adjust-
ing disputes, and the promulgation of some sort
DUELS AND ORDEALS•
.of laws for obtaining redress for injuries was the
consequence. Still there were many cases in which
the allegations of an accuser could not be rebutted
by any positive proof on the part of the accused ;
and in all these, which must have been exceedingly
numerous in the early stages of European society,
the combat was resorted to. From its decision
there was no appeal. God was supposed to net:ve
the arm of the combatant whose cause was just,
.and to grant him the victory over his opponent.
As Montt}squieu well remarks,• this belief was not
.unnatural among a people just emerging from bar-
.barism. Their manners being wholly warlike, the
man deficient in courage, the prime virtue of his
fellows, was .not unreasonably suspected of other
vices besides cowardice, which is generally found
to be co-existent with treachery. He, therefore,
.who showed himself most valiant in the encoun-
ter, was .abso\ved by public opinion from any
crime with which be might be charged. As a
necessary consequence, society would have been
reduced to its original elements, if the men of
thought, as distinguished from the men of action,
had not devised some means for taming the unruly
passions of their fellows. With this view, govern-
.ments commenced by restricting within the narro\V-
est possible limits the cases in which it was lawful
to prove or deny guilt by the single combat. By
the law of Gondebaldus, King of the Burgundians,
• « Eaprit dea Loi:x," liv. xxviii. chap. xvii.
288 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
passed in the year 501, the proof by combat was
allowed in all legal proceedings, in lieu of swear·
ing. In the time of Charlemagne, the Burgundian
practice had spread over the empire of the Francs,
and not only the suitors for justice, but the wit-
nesses, and even the judges, were obliged to defend
their cause, their evidence, or their decision, at the
point of the sword. Louis the Debonnaire, his
successor, endeavoured to remedy the growing evil,
by permitting the duel only in appeals of felony, in
civil cases, or issue joined in a writ of right, and
in cases of the court of chivalry, or attack& upon
a man's knighthood. None were exempt from
these trials, but women, the sick and the maimed,
and persons under fifteen or above sixty years of
age. Ecclesiastics were allowed to produce cham-
pions in their stead. This practice, in the course
of time, extended to all trials of civil and criminal
cases, which had to be decided by battle.
The clergy, whose dominion was an intellectual
one, never approved of a system of jurisprudence
which tended so much to bring all things under
the rule of the strongest arm. From the first they
set their faces ·against duelling, and endeavoured,
as far as the prejudices of their age would allow
them, to curb the warlike spirit, so alien from
the principles of religion. In the Council of Va-
lentia, and afterwards in the Council of Trent,
they excommunicated all persons engaged in duel-
ling, and not only them, but even the assistants
DUELS AND ORDEALS. i39
and spectators, declaring the custom to be hellish
and detestable, and introduced by the Devil for the
destruction both of body and soul. They added,
also, that princes who connived at duels, should be
deprived of all temporal power, jurisdiction, and
dominion over the places where they bad permitted
them to be fought. It will be seen hereafter that
this clause only encouraged the practice which it
was intended to prevent.
But it was the blasphemous error of these early
ages to expect-that the Almighty, whenever he was
called upon, would work a miracle in favour of a
person unjustly accused. The priesthood, in con-
demning the duel, did not condemn the principle
011 which it was founded. They still encouraged
the popular belief of Divine interference in all
the disputes or differences that might arise among
nations or individuals. It was the very same prin-
ciple that regulated the ordeals, which, with all
their influence, they supported against the duel.
By the former, the power of deciding the guilt or
innocence was vested wholly in thei'r hands, while,
by the latter, they enjoyed no power or privilege
at all. lt is not to be wondered at, that for this
reason, if for no other, they should have endea-
voured to settle all differences by the peaceful
mode. While that ·prevailed, they were as they
wished to be, the first party in the state; but while
the strong arm of individual prowess w~s allowed
to be the judge in all doubtful cases, their power
240 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
and influence became secondary to those of the
nobility.
Thus, it was not the mere hatred of bloodshed
which induced them to launch the thunderbolts of
excommunication against the combatants; it was
a desire to retain the power, which, to do them
justice, they were, in those times, the persons best
qualified to wield. The germs of knowledge and
civilization lay within the bounds of their order;
for they were the representatives of the intellectual,
as the ~obility were of the physical power of man.
To centralize this po:wer in the Church, and make
it the judge of the last resort in all appeals, both in
civil and criminal cases, they instjtuteQ five modes
of trial, the management of which lay wholly in
their hands. These we~e the oath upon the Evan-
gelists ; the ordeal of the cross, and the fire ordeal,
for persons in the higher ranks ; the water ordeal,
for the humbler classes; and, lastly, the Corsned,
or bread and cheese ordeal, for members of their
.own body.
The oath upon the Evangelists was taken in the
following manner : the accused who was received
to this proof, says Paul Hay, Count du Chastelet,
in his Memoirs of Bertrand du Guesclin, swore
upon a copy of the New Testament, and on the
relics of the holy martyrs, or on their tombs, that
he was innocent of the crime imputed to him. He
was also obliged to find twelve persons, of ac~now­
ledged probity, who should take oath at the same
\ h\ I
DUELS AND ORDEALS.
time, that they believed him innocent. Th~ mode
of trial led to very great abuses, especially in cases
of disputed inheritance, where the hardest swearer
was certain of the victory. · This abuse was one of
the principal causes which led to the preference given
to the trial by battle. It is not all surprising that
a feudal baron, or captain of the early ages, should
have preferred the ch.ances of a fair fight with his
opponent, to a mode by which firm perjury would
always be successful.
The trial by, or judgment of, the cross, which
Charlemagne begged his sons to have recourse to,
in case of disputes arisi.ng between them, was per-
formed thus :-When a person accused of any crime
bad declared his innocence upon oath, and appealed
to the cross for its judgment in his favour, be was
brought into the church, before the altar. The
priests previously prepared two sticks exactly like
one another, upon one of which was carved a figure
of the cross. They were both wrapped up with
great care and many ceremonies, in a quantity of
fine wool, and laid upon the altar, or on the relics
of the saints. A solemn prayer was then offered up
to God, that he would be pleased to discover, by
the judgment of his holy cross, whether the accused
person were innocent or guilty. A priest then ap-
proached the altar, and took up one of the sticks,
and the assistants unswathed it reverently. If it
was marked w~th the cross, the accused person was
innocent; if unmarked, he was guilty. It would
ro~L R
DUELS AND ORDEALS.
be unjust to assert, that the judgments thus de-
livered were, in all cases, erroneous; and it would
be absurd to believe that they were left altogether
to chance. Many true judgments were doubtless
given, and, in all probability, most conscientiously;
for we cannot but believe that the priests endea-
voured beforehand to convince themselves by secret
inquiry and a strict examination of the circum-
stances, whether the appe1lant were innocent or
guilty, and that they took up the crossed or un-
crossed stick accordingly. Although, to all other
observers, the sticks, as enfolded in the wool, might
appear exactly similar, those who enwrapped them
could, without any difficulty, distinguish the one
from the other.
By the fire-ordeal the power of deciding was just
as unequivocally left in their hands. It was gene-
rally believed that fire would not burn the innocent,
and the clergy, of course, took care that the inno-
cent, or such as it was their pleasure or interest to
de~Jare so, should be so warned before undergoing
.the ordeal, as to preserve themselves without any
difficulty from the fire. One mode of ordeal was
to place red-hot ploughshares on the ground at
certain distances, a~d then, blindfolding the ac-
.cused person, make him walk barefooted over them.
If he stepped regularly in the vacant spaces, avoid-
ing the fire, he was adjudged innocent ; if be
burned himself, be was declared guilty. As none
DUELS AND ORDEALS.
but the clergy interfeJ:ed with the arrangement of
the ploughshares, they could always calculate be-
forehand the result of the ordeal. To find a per-
son guilty, they had only to place them at irregular
distances, and the accused was sure to tread upon
one of them. When Emma, the wife of King
Ethelred, and mother of Edward the Confessor,
was accused of a guilty familiarity with Alwyn,
Bishop of Winchester, she cleared her character in
this manner. The reputation, not only of their
order, but of a queen, being at stake, a verdict of
guilty was not to be apprehended from any plough-
shares which priests had the beating of. This
ordeal was called the Judicium Dei, and sometimes
the Vulgaris Purgatio, and might also be tried by
several other methods. One was to bold in the
hand, unhurt, a piece of red-hot iron, of the weight
of one, two, or three pounds. When we read not
only that men with hard hands, but women of softer
and more delicate skin, could do this with im-
punity, we must be convinced that the hands were
previously rubbed with some preservative, or that
the apparently hot iron was merely cold iron painted
red. Another mode was to plunge the naked arm
into a caldron of boiling water. The priests then
enveloped it in several folds of linen and flannel, and
kept the patien.t confined within the church, and
under their exclusive care, for three days. I£, at
the end of that time, the arm appeared without a
R2
DUELS AND ORDEALS•
.scar, the innocence of the accused person was
firmly established.•
As regards the water-ordeal, the same trouble
was not taken. It was a trial only for the poor
and humble, and, whether they sank or swam,
was thought of very little consequence. Like the
witches of more modern times, the accused were
thrown into a pond or river; if they sank, and were
• Very similar to this ia the fire-ordeal of the modem Hindooa,
which ia thua detcribed in Forbes's "Oriental Memoirs," vol. i.
c. xi.-" When a man, acclllled ofa capital crime, chooses to un·
dergo the ordeal trial, he ia closely confined for several days; hi•
right hand and arm are covered with thick wax-cloth, tied up and
sealed, in the presence of proper officers, to prevent deceit. In the
English districts the covering was alway• sealed with the Com-
pany'• arms, and the prisoner placed under an European guard.
At the time fixed for the ordeal, a caldron of oil is placed over a
fue ; when it boils, a piece of m~ney is dropped into the vessel ;
the prisoner's arm is unsealed, and washed in the preaence ofhis
judges and aecwera. During this part ofthe ceremony, the attend-
ant Brahmins supplicate the Deity. On receiving their benedic-
tion, the accused plunges his hand into the boiling fluid, and takes
out the coin. The arm is afterwards again sealed up until the
time appointed for a re-examination. The seal ia then broken: if
no blemish appears, the prisoner is declared ftlnocent ; if the con·
trary, he auffen the punishment due to his crime." • •
• • On this trial the accused thus addresses the element
before ·plunging his hand into the boiling oil :-" Thou, 0 fire !
pervadest all things. 0 cause of purity ! who giveat evidence of
virtue and of sin, declare the truth in this my hand I" If no
juggling were practised, the decisions by this ordeal would be all
the same way; but, as aom~ are by this means declared guilty,
and others innocent, it 'is clear that the Brahmina, like the Chrit-
tian priests of the middle ~' practise some deception in saving
those whom they wiah to be thought guiltleu.
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 245
drowned, their surviving friends had the consola-
tion of knowing that they were innocent; if they
swam, they were guilty. In either case society was
rid of them.
But of all the ordeals, that which the clergy re-
served for themselves was the one ]east likely to
cause any member of their corps to be declared
guilty. The most culpable monster in existence
came off clear when tried by this method. It was
called the Corsned, and was thus performed. A
piece of barley bread and a piece of cheese were
laid upon the altar, and the accused priest, in his
full canonicals, and surrounded by all the pompous
adjuncts of Roman ceremony, pronounced certain
conjurations, and prayed with great fervency for
several minutes. The burden of his prayer was,
that if be were guilty of the crime laid to his
charge, God would send his angel Gabriel to stop
his throat, that he might not be able to swallow the
bread and cheese. There is no instance upon record
of a priest having been choked in this manner.•
• An ordealverylike this i.e stillpractisedin India. Consecrated
rice is the article chosen, instead of bread and cheese. Instances
are not rare in which, through the force of imagination, guiltyper-
sona are not able to swallow a single grain. Conscious of their
crime, and fearful of the punishment of Heaven, they feel a suf-
focating sensation in their throat when they attempt it, and they
fall on their knees, and confess all that i.e laid to theit charge.
The same thing, no doubt, would have happened with the bread
and cheese of the Roman church, if it had been applied to any
others but ecclesiastics. The latter had too much wisdom to be
caught in a trap oftheir own setting.
246 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
When, under Pope Gregory VII, it was debated
whether the Gregorian chant should be introduced
into Castile, instead of the Musarabic, given by
St. Isidore, of Seville, to the churches of that
kingdom, very much ill feeling was excited. The
churches refused to receive the novelty, and it was
proposed that the affair should be decided by a
battle between two champions, one chosen from
each side. The clergy would not consent to a
mode of settlement which they considered impious,
but had no objection to try the merits of each
chant by the fire ordeal. A great fire was ac-
cordingly made, and a book of the Gregorian and
one of the Musarabic chant were thrown into it,
that the flames might decide which was most agree-
able to God by refusing to burn it. Cardinal Ba.-
ronius, who says he was an eye-witness of the
miracle, relates, that the book of the Gregorian
chant was no sooner laid upon the fire, than it
leaped out uninjured, visibly, and with 8 great
noise. Every one present thought that the saints
had decided in favour of Pope Gregory. After 8
slight interval, the fire was extinguished ; but, won-
derful to relate ! the other book of St. Isidore was
found covered with ashes, but not injured in the
slightest degree. The flames had not even warmed
it. Upon this it was resolved, that both were-alike
agreeable to God, and that they should be used by
turns in all the churches ofSeville.•
• Hiatoire de Messire Bertrand du Guesclin, par Paul Hay du
Chastelet. Livre i. chap. xix.
\ h\ I
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 247
If the ordeals had been confined to questions like
this, the laity would have had little or no objection
to them ; but when they were introduced as de-
cisive in all the disputes that might arise between
man and man, the opposition of all those whose
prime virtue was personal bravery, was necessarily
excited. In fact, the nobility, from a very early
period, began to look with jealous eyes upon them.
They were not slow to perceive their true purport,
which was no other than to make the Church the
last court of appeal in all cases, both civil and cri-
minal : and not only did the nobility prefer the
ancient mode of single combat from this cause, in
itself a sufficient one, but they clung to it because
an acquittal gained by those displays of courage
and address which the battle afforded, was more·
creditable in the eyes of their compeers, than one
which it required but little or none of either to ac-
complish. To these causes may be added another,
which was, perhaps, more potent than either, in
raising the credit of the judicial combat at the ex-
pense of the ordeal. The noble institution of chi-
valry was beginning to take root, and, notwith-
standing the clamours of the clergy, war was made
the sole business of life, and the only elegant pur-
suit of the aristocracy. The fine spirit of honour
was introduced, any attack upon which was only to
be avenged in the lists, within sight of applauding
crowds, whose verdict of approbation was far more
gratifying than the cold and formal acquittal of the
248 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
ordeal. Lothaire, the son of Louis I, abolished that
by fire and the trial of the ~::ross within his do-
minions ; but in England they were allowed so late
as the time of Henry III, in the early part ofwhose
reign they were prohibited by an order of council.
In the mean time, the Crusades had brought the
institution of chivalry to the full height of perfec-
tion. The chivalric spirit soon achieved the down-
fall ofthe ordeal system, and established thejudicial
combat on a basis too firm to be shaken. It is
true that with the fall of chivalry, as an institution,
fell the tournament, and the encounter in the lists;
but the duel, their offspring, has survived to this
day, defying the efforts ofsages and philosophers to
eradicate it. Among all the errors bequeathed to
us by a barbarous age, it has proved the most per-
tinacious. It has put variance between men's rea-
son and their honour ; put the man of sense on a
level with the fool, and made thousands who con-
demn it submit to it, or practise it.
Those who are curious to see the manner in
which these combats were regulated, may consult
the learned Montesquieu, where tbey will find a
copious summary of the code of ancient duelling.•
Truly does he remark, in speaking of the clearness
and excellence of the arrangements, that, as there
were many wise matters which were conducted in a
very foolish manner, so there were many foo1ish
matters conducted very wisely. No greater exem-
• " Eaprit des Loix," livre xxviii. chap. xxv.
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 249
p1i6cation ofit could be given, than the wise and
religious rules of the absurd and blasphemous trial
by battle.
In the ages that intervened between the Crusades
and the new era that was opened out by the in-
vention of gunpowder and printing, a more rational
system of legislation took root. The inhabitants of
cities, engaged in the pursuits of trade and indus-
try, were content to acquiesce in the decisions of
their judges and magistrates whenever any dif-
ferences arose among them. Unlike the class above
them, their habits and manners did not lead them
to seek the battle-field on every slight occasion.
A dispute as to the price of a sack of corn, a bale
of broad-cloth, or a cow, could be more satisfac-
torily adjusted before the mayor or bailiff of their
district. Even the martial knights and nobles,
quarrelsome as they were, began to see that the
trial by battle would lose its dignity and splendour
if too frequently resorted to. Governments also
shared this opinion, and on several occasions re-
stricted the cases in which it was legal to proceed
to this extremity. In France, before the time of
Louis IX, duel!! were permitted only in cases of
Lese Mqjesty, Rape, Incendiari3m, ihsassination, and
Burglary. Louis IX, by taking offall restriction,
made them legal in civil cases. This was 11ot found
to work well, and, in 1808, Philip the Fair judged
it necessary to confine them, in criminal matters, to
state offences, rape, and incendiarism ; and in civil
250 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
cases, Jo questions ofdisputed inheritance. Knight..
hood was allowed to be the best judge of its own
honour, and might defend or avenge it as often as
occasion arose.
Among the earliest duels upon record, is a very
singular one that took place in the reign of Louis 11.
(A.D. 878). Ingelgerius, Count of Gastinois, was
one morning discovered by his Countess dead in
bed at her side. Gontran, a relation of the Count,
accused the Countess of having murdered her bus·
band, to whom, he asserted, she had long been un-
faithful, and challenged her to produce a champion
to do battle in her behalf, that he might establish
her guilt by killing him.• All the friends and re-
latives of the Countess believed in her innocence ;
but Gontran was so stout and bold and renowned
a warrior, that no one dared to meet him, for
which, as Brant6me quaintly says, u Mauvais et
poltrons parens estaient." The unhappy Countess
began to despair, when a champion suddenly ap-
peared in the person of Ingelgerius, Count of
Anjou, a boy of sixt.een years of age, who had been
held by the Countess on the baptismal font, and
received her husband's name. He tenderly loved
his godmother, and o:ffered to do battle in her
cause against any and every opponent. The King
endeavoured to persuade the generous boy from his
enterprise, urging the great strength, tried skill,
and invincible courage of the cha1lenger; but he
• Memoires de Bmnt6me touchant lea Duels.
DU:ELS AND ORDEALS. 2.?1
persisted in his resolution, to the great sorrow of
all the court, who said it was a cruel thing to per-
mit so brave and beautiful a child to rush to such
butchery and death.
When the lists were prepared, the Countess duly
acknowledged her champion, and the combatants
commenced the onset. Gontran rode so fiercely at
his antagonist, and hit him on the shield with such
impetuosity, that he lost his own balance and rolled
to the ground. The young Count, as Gontran fell,
passed his lance through his body, and then dis-
mounting, cut off his head, which, Brantome says,
H he presented to the King, who received it most
graciously, and was very joyful, as much so as if
any one had made him a present of a city." The
innocence of the Countess was then proclaimed
with great rejoicings ; and she kissed her godson,
and wept over his neck with joy, in the presence
of all the assembly.
When the Earl of Essex was accused, by Robert
de Montfort, before King Henry II, in 116i, of
having traitorou!lly suffered the royal standard of
Eng1and to fall from his hands in a skirmish with
the Welsh, at Coleshill, five years previously, the
latter offered to prove the truth of the charge by
single combat. The Earl of Essex accepted the
challenge, and the lists were prepared near Reading.
An immense concourse of persons assembled to wit-
ness the battle. Essex at first fought stoutly, but,
losing his temper and self-command, he gave an
DUELS AND ORDEALS.
advantage to his opponent, which soon decided
the struggle. He was unhorsed, and so severely
wounded, that all present thought he was dead.
At the solicitation of his relatives, the monks of
the Abbey of Reading were allowed to remove the
body for interment, and Montfort was declared the
victor. Essex, however, was not dead, but stunned
only, and, under the care of the monks, recovered
in a few weeks from his bodily injuries. The
wounds of his mind were not so easily healed.
Though a loyal and brave subject, the whole realm
believed him a traitor and a coward because he had
been vanquished. He could not brook to return
to the world deprived of the good opinion of his
fellows; he, therefore, made himself a monk, and
passed the remainder of his days within the walls of
the Abbey.
Du Chastelet relates a singular duel that was
proposed in Spain.• A Christian gentleman of
Seville sent a challenge to a Moorish cavalier,
offering to prove against him, with whatever wea-
pons he might choose, that the religion of Jesus
Christ was holy and di~ne, and that of M~ho­
met impious and damnable. The Spanish prelates
did not choose that Christianity should be com-
promised within their jurisdiction by the result of
any such combat, and they commanded the knight,
under pain of excommunication, to withdraw the
challenge.
• Hiatoire de Mesaire Bertrand du Gueaclin, livre i. chap. xix.
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 258
The same author relates, that under Otho I. a
question arose among jurisconsults, viz. whether
grandchildren, who had lost their father, should
share equally with their uncles in the property of
their grandfather, at the death ofthe latter. The dif-
ficulty ofthis question was found so insurmountable,
that none ofthe lawyers of that day could resolve
it. It was at last decreed, that it should be de-
cided by single combat. Two champions were ac-
cordingly chosen; one for, and the other against,
the claims -of the little ones. After a long strug-
gle, the champion of the uncles was unhorsed and
slain; and it was, therefore, decided, that the right
of the grandchildren was established, and that they
should enjoy the same portion oftheir grandfather's
possessions that their father would have done had
he been alive.
Upon pretexts, just as frivolous as these, duels
continued to be fougbt in most of the countries of
Europe during the whole of the fourteenth and
fifteenth centuries. A memorable instance of the
slightness of the pretext on ~hich a man could be
forced to fight a duel to the death, occurs in the
Memoirs of the brave Constable, Du Guesclin.
The advantage he had obtained, in a skirmish be-
fore Rennes, against William Brembre, an English
captain, so preyed on the spirits of William Trous--
sel, the chosen friend and companion of the latter,
that nothing would satisfy him but a mortal combat
with the Constable. The Duke of Lancaster, to
256 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
whom Trou$sel applied for permission to fight the
great Frenchman, forbade the battle, as not war-
., ranted by the circumstances. Troussel neverthe-
less burned with a fierce desire to cross his weapon
with Du Guesclin, and sought every occasion to
pick a quarrel with him. Having so good a will
for it, of course he found a way. A relative of his
had been taken prisoner by the Constable, in whose
bands he remained till he was able to pay his ran-
som. Troussel resolved to make a quarrel out of
this, and despatched a messenger to Du Guesclin,
demanding the release of his prisoner, and offering
a bond, at a distant date, for the payment of the
ransom. Du Guesclin, who had received intima-
tion ofthe hostile purposes of the Englishman, sent
back word, that be would not accept his bond,
neither would he release his prisoner, until the full
amount of his ransom was paid. As soon as this
answer was received, Troussel sent a challenge to
the Constable, demanding reparation for the injury
he had done his honour, by refusing his bond, and
offering a mortal combat, to be fought three strokes
with the lance, three with the sword, and three
with the dagger. Du Guesclin, although ill in bed
with the ague, accepted the challenge, and gave
notice to the Marshal d'Andreghem, the King's
Lieutenant-General in Lower Normandy, that be
might fix the day and the place ofcombat. The
Marshal made all necessary arrangements, upon
condition that be who was beaten should pay a
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 255
hundred florins of gold to feast the nobles and gen-
tlemen who were witnesses of the encounter.
The Duke of Lancaster was very angry with his
captain, and told him, that it would be a shame to
his knighthood and his nation, if he forced on a
combat with the brave Du Guesclin, at a time when
he was enfeebled by disease and stretched on the
couch of suffering. Upon these representations,
Troussel, ashamed of himself, sent notice to Du
Guesclin that he was willing to postpone the duel
until such time as.be should be perfectly recovered.
Du Guesclin replied, that he could not think of
postponing the combat, after all the nobility had
received notice ofit; that he had sufficient strength
left, not only to meet, but to conquer such an op-
ponent as he was ; and that, if he did not make his
appearance in the lists at the time appointed, he
would publish him everywhere as a mim unworthy
to be called a knight:, or to, wear an honourable
sword by his side. Troussel carried this haughty
message to the Duke of Lancaster, who imme-
diately gave permission for the battle.
On the day appointed, the two combatants ap-
peared in the lists, in the presence of several thou..
sand spectators. Du Guesclin was attended by the
flower of the French nobility, including the Mar-
shal de Beaumanoir, Olivier de Manny, Bertrand
de Saint Pern, and the Viscount de la Belliere,
while the Englishman appeared with no more than
the customary retinue of two seconds, two squires,
256 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
two coutilliers, or daggermen, and two trumpeters.
The first onset was unfavourable to the Constable :
he received so heavy a blow on his shield-arm, that
he fell forward to the left, upon his horse•s neck,
and, being weakened by his fever, was nearly thrown
to the ground. All his friends thought he could
never recover himself, and began to deplore his ill
fortune ; but Du Guesclin collected his energies for
a decisive effort, and, at the second charge, aimed a
blow at the shoulder ofhis enemy, which felled him
to the earth, mortally wounded. He then sprang
from his horse, sword in hand, with the intention of
cutting offthe head of his fallen foe, when the Mar-
shal n·Andreghem threw a golden wand into the
arena, as a signal that hostilities should cease.
Du Gue.
sclin was proclaimed the victor, amid the
joyous acclamations of the crowd, ,and retiring, left
the field to the meaner combatants, who were after-
wards to make sport for the people. Four English
and as many French squird fought for some time
with pointless lances, when the French, gaining the
advantage, the sports were declared at an end.
In the time of Charles VI, about the beginning
of the fifteenth century, a famous duel was ordered
by the Parliament of Paris. The Sieur de Car-
rouges be~ng absent in the Holy Land, his lady
was violated by the Sieur Legris. Carrouges, on
his return, challenged Legris to mortal combat, for
the twofold crime of violation and slander, inas-
much as he had denied his guilt, by asserting that
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 257
the lady was a willing party. The lady's assevera-
tions of innocence were held to be no evidence by
the Parliament, and· the duel was commanded with
all the ceremonies. u On the day appointed," says
BranMme,• t• the lady came to witness the spec-
tacle in her chariot; but the King made her de-
scend, judging her unworthy, because she was cri-
minal in his eyes till her innocence was proved,
and caused her to stand upon a scaffold to await
the mercy of God and this judgment by the battle.
After a short struggle, the Sieur de Carrouges
overthrew his enemy, and made him confess both
the rape and the slander. He was then taken to
the gallows and banged in the presence of the mul-
titude; while the innocence of tbe lady was pro-
claimed by the heralds, and recognized by her hus-
band, the King, and all the spectators."
Numerous battles, of a similar description, con-
stantly took place, until the unfortunate issue of
one encounter of the kind led the French King,
Henry II, to declare solemnly, that he would never
again permit any such encounter, whether it re-
lated to a civil or criminal case, or the honour of a
gentlei.Jlan.
This memorable combat was fought in the year
1547, Fran~s de Vivonne, Lord of La Cba-
taigneraie, and Guy de Chabot, Lord of Jarnac,
had been f~iends from their early youth, and were
noted at the court of Francis I. for the gallantry of
• M6moirea d~ Brant6me touchant lea Duels.
VOL. I. 8
258 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
their bearing and the magnificence of their retinue.
Chataigneraie, who knew that his friend's means
were not very ample, asked him one day, in con-
fidence, how it was that be contrived to be so
well provided 1 Jarnac replied, that his father bad
married a young and beautiful woman, who, lov-
ing the son far better than the sire, supplied him
with as much money as he desired. La ChataigneJ.
raie betrayed the base secret to the Dauphin, the
Dauphin to the King, the King to his courtiers,
and the courtiers to all their acquaintance. In a
short time it reached the ears of the old Lord
de Jarnac, who immediately sent for his son, and
demanded to know in what manner the report had
originated, and whether he had been vile enough
not only to carry on such a connexion, but to
boast of it? De Jarnac indignantly denied that he
had ever said so, or given reason to the world to
say so, and requested his father to accompany him
to court, and confront him with his accuser, that he
might see the manner in which he would confound
him. They went accordingly~ and the younger
De Jarnac, entering a room where the Dauphin,
LaChataigneraie, and several courtiers werepresent,
exclaimed aloud, ~~ That whoever had asserted,
that he maintained a criminal connexion with his
mother-in-law, was a liar and a coward !" Every eye
was turned to the Dauphin ·and La Chataigneraie,
when the latter stood forward, and asserted, that
De J arnac had himself avowed that such was the
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 259
fact, and he would extort from his lips another con-
fession of it. A case like this could not be met or
rebutted by any legal proof, and the royal council
ordered that it should be decided by single combat.
The King, however, set his face against the duel,•
and forbade them both, under pain of his high dis-
pleasure, to proceed any further in the matter.
But Francis died in the following year, and the
Dauphin, now Henry II, who was himself compro-
mised, resolved that the combat should take place.
The lists were prepared in the court-yard of the
chateau of St. Germain-en-Laye, and the lOth of
July 1547 was appointed for the encounter. The
cartels of the combatants, which are preserved in
the " Memoires de Castelnau," were as follow :-
" Cartel of Francyois de Vivonne, Lord of La
Chataigneraie.
"SIRE,
., HAVING learned that Guy Chabot de Jarnac,
being lately at Compeigne, asserted, that whoever
had said that be boasted of having criminal inter-
course with his mother-in-law, was wicked and a
• Although Francis showed himself in this case an enemy to
duelling, yet, in his own case, he had not the same objection.
Every reader of hiatory must remember his anawer to the chal-
lenge of the Emperor Charles V. The Emperor wrote that he had
failed in his word, and that he would sustain their quarrel single-
handed against him. FrancitJ replied, that he lied-qu'il en o;oait
menti par la gorge, and that he was ready to meet him in single
combat whenever and wh.ere'ver1Te pleased.
s 2
i60 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
wretch,-1, Sire, with your good-will and pleasure,
do answer, that he has wickedly lied, and will lie
as many times as he denies having said that which
I affirm he did say ; for I repeat, that he told me
several times, and boasted of it, that he had slept
with his mother-in-law.
II F&ANCOIS DE VIVONNE."
To this cartel De Jarnac replied :-
u StRE,
"WITH your good will and permission, I say,
that Fran<;ois de Vivonne has lied in the imputa-
tion which he has cast upon me, and of which
I spoke to you at Compeigne. I, therefore, entreat
you, Sire, most humbly, that you be pleased to
grant us a fair field, that we may fight this battle
to the death.
"Guy CHABOT."
The preparations were conducted ·on a scale of
the greatest magnificence, the King having inti-
mated his intention of being present. La Chataig-
ncraie made sure of the victory, and invited the
King and a hundred and fifty of the principal per-
sonages ofthe court to sup with him in the evening,
after the battle, in a splendid tent, which he had
prepared at the extre.mity of the lists. De Jarnac
was not so confident, though perhaps more des-
perate. At noon, on the day appointed, the com-
batants met, and each took the customary oath,
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 261
that he .bore no charms or amulets about him, or
made use of any magic~ to aid him against his
antagonist. They then attacked each other, sword
in hand. La Chataigneraie was a strong,, robust
man, and over confident; De Jarnnc was nimble,
supple, and prepared for the worst. The com-
bat lasted for some time doubtful, until De Jnr-
nac, overpowered by the heavy blows of his op-
ponent, covered his head with his shield, and,
stooping down, endeavoured to make amends by
his agility for his deficiency of strength. In this
crouching posture he aimed two blows at the left
thigh of La Chataigneraie, who had left it un-
covered, that the motion of his leg might not be
impeded. Each blow was successful, and, amid the
. a~tonishment of all the spectators, and to the great
regret of the King, La Chataigneraie rolled over
upon the sand. He seized his dagger, and made a
last effort to strike De Jarnac; but he was unable
to support himself, and fell powerless into the arms
of the assistants. The officers now interfered, and
De Jarnac being declared the victor, fell down upon
his knees, uncovered his head, and, clasping his
hands together, exclaimed:-" 0 Domine, non 8Um
dignus!" La Cbataigneraie was so mortified by
the result of the encounter, that he resolutely
refused to have his wounds dressed. He tore off
the bandages which the surgeons applied, and ex-
pired two days afterwards. Ever since that time,
any sly and unforeseen attack has been called
262 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
by the French a coup de Jarnac. Henry was so
grieved at the loss of his favourite, that be made
the solemn oath already alluded to, that he would
never again, so long as he lived, permit a duel.
Some writers have asserted, and among others,
Mezeraie, that he issued a royal edict forbidding
them. This bas been doubted by .others, and, as
there appears no registry of the edict in any of the
courts, it seems most probable that it was never
issued. This opinion is strengthened by the fact,
that two years afterwards, the council ordered
another duel to be fought, with similar forms, but
with Jess magnificence, on account of the inferior
rank of the combatants. It is not anywhere stated,
that Henry interfered to prevent it, notwithstand-
ing his solemn oath; but that, on the contrary, he
encouraged it, and appointed the Marshal de la
Marque to see that it was conducted according to
the rules of chivalry. The disputants were Fen-
dille and D'Aguerre, two gentlemen of the house-
hold, who, quarrelling in the King's chamber, had
proceeded from words to blows. The council, being
informed of the matter, decreed that it could only
be decided in the lists. Marshal de la Marque,
with the King's permission, appointed the city of
Sedan as the place of combat. Fendille, who was
a bad swordsman, was anxious to avoid an en-
counter with D'Aguerre, who was one of the most
expert men of the age ; but the council authori-
tatively commanded that he should fight, or be
DUELS AND O.RDEALS. 26S
degraded from all his honours. D'Aguerre ap-
peared in the field attended by Fran\!ois de Ven-
dome, Count de Chartres, while Fendille was
accompanied by the Duke de NeveJ:'s. Fendille
appears to have been not only an inexpert swords-
man, but a thorough coward; one who, like Cowley,
might have heaped curses on the man,
" - - (Death's factor sure), who )>rought
Dire swords into this peaceful world."
On the very first encounter he was thrown from his
horse, and, confessing on the ground all that his
victor required of him, slunk away ignominiously
from the arena.
One is tempted to look upon the death of HenryII.
as a judgment upon him for his perjury in the mat-
ter of duelling. In a grand 'tournament instituted
on the occasion of the marriage Of his daughter,
he broke sever~) lances in encounters with some of
the bravest knights of the time. Ambitious of still
further renown, he would not rest satisfied until he
had also engaged the young Count de Montgomeri.
He received a wound in the eye from the lance of
this antagonist, and died from its effectsshortly after-
wards, in the forty-first year of his age.
In the11ucceeding reigns ofFrancis II, Charles IX,
and Henry III, the practice of duelling increased
to an alarming extent. Duels were not rare in the
other countries of Europe at the same period; but
in France they were so frequent, that historians,
DUELS .AND ORDEALS.
in speaking of that age.. designate it as " l'epoque
de la fureur des duels!' The Parliament of Paris
endeavoured, as far as in its power lay, to discou-
rage the practice. By a decree dated the 26th of
June 1559_. it declared all persons who should be
present at duels, or aiding and abetting in them,
to be rebels to the King, transgressors of the law,
and disturbers of the public peace.
When HenryIII. was assassinated at St.Cloud, in
1589, a young gentleman, named L'is]e Marivaut,
who had been much beloved by him, took his death
so much to heart, that be resolved not to survive him.
Not thinking suicide an honourable death, and wish-
ing, as he said, to die gloriously in revenging hi~
King and master_. he publicly expressed his read~ness
to fight anybody to the death who should assert that
Henry's assassination was not a great misfortune to
the community. · Another youth, of a fiery temper
and tried courage, named Marolles, took him at his
word, and the day and place of the combat were
forthwith appointed. When the hour had come,
and all were ready, Marolles turned to his second,
and asked whether his opponent had a casque or
helmet only, or whether he wore a sallade, or head-
piece. Being answered a helrnet only, he said
gaily, '' So much the better; for, sir, my second,
you shall repute me the wickedest man in all the
world, ifI do not thrust my lance right through the
the middle of his head and kill him." Truth to
say, he did so at the very first onset, and the un·
DUELS ·AND ORDEALS. ~65
happy L'isle Marivaut expired without a groan.
Brant6me, who relates this story, adds, that the
victor might have done as he pleased with the body,
cut offthe head, dragged it out of the camp, or ex-
posed it upon an ass, but that, being a wise and very
courteous gentleman, he left it to the relatives of
the deceased to be honourably buried, contenting
himself with the glory of his triumph, by which he
gained no little renown and honour among the
ladies of Paris.
On the accession of Henry IV. that monarch pre-
tended to set his face against duelling; but such was
the influence ofearly education and the prejudices of
society upon him, that he never could find it in his
heart to punish a man for this offence. He thought
it tended to foster a warlike spirit among his people.
When the chivalrous Crequi demanded his per-
mission to fight Don Philippe de Savoire, he is
reported to have said, " Go, and if I were not a
King, I would be your second." It is no wonder
that when such were known to be the King's dis-
position, his edicts attracted but small attention.
A calculation was made by M. de Lomenie, in the
year 1607, that since the accession of Henry, in
1589, no less than four thousand French gentlemen
had lost their lives in these conflicts, which, for the
eighteen years, would have been at the rate of four
or five in a week, or eighteen per month f SulJy,
who reports this fact in his Memoirs, does not
throw the slightest doubt upon its exactness, and
i66 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
adds> that it was chiefly owing to the facility and
ill-advised good-nature of his royal master that the
bad example had so empoisoned the court, the city,
and the whole country. This wise minister de-
voted much of his time and attention to the sub-
ject; for the rage, he says, was such as to cause
him a thousand pangs, and the King also. There
was hardly a man moving in what was called good
society, who had not been engaged in a duel either
as principal or second ; and if there were such a
man, his chief desire was to free himself from the
imputation of non-duelling, by picking a quarrel
with somebody. Sully constantly wrote letters to
the King, in which he prayed him to renew the
edicts against this barbarous custom, to aggravate
the punishment against offenders, and never, in any
instance, to grant a pardon, even to a person who
bad wounded another in a duel, much less to any
one who had taken away life. He also advised, that
some sort of tribunal, or court of honour, should be
established, to take cognizance of injurious and
slanderous language, and of all such matters as
usually led to duels; and that the justice to be
administered by this .court should be sufficiently
prompt and severe to appease the complainant, and
make the ofFender repent of his aggression.
Henry, being so warmly pressed by his friend
and minister, called together an extraordinary coun-
cil in the gallery of the palace of Fontainebleau,
to take the matter into consideration. When all
DUELS AND ORDEALS. ~67
the members were assembled, his Majesty requested
that some person conversant with the subject would
make a report to him on the origin~ progress, and
different forms of the duel. Sully complacently
remarks, that none of the counsellors gave the
King any great reason to felicitate them on their
erudition. In fact, they all remained silent. Sully
held his peace with the rest ; but he looked so
knowing, that the King turned towards him, and
said :-" Great master! by your face I conjecture
that you know more of this matter than you
would have us believe. 1 pray you, and indeed
I command, that you tell us what you think and
what you know." The coy minister refused, as
he says, out of mere politeness to his more igno-
rant coJleagues; but, being again pressed by the
King, be entered into a history of duelling both
in ancient and modem times. He has not pre~
served this history in his Memoirs ; and1 as none
of the ministers or counsellors present thought pro-
per to do so, the world is deprived of a discourse
which was, no doubt, a learned and remarkable
one. The result was, that a royal edict was issued,
which Sully lost no time in transmitting to the
most distant provinces, with a distinct notification
to all parties concerned that the King was in
earnest, and would exert the full rigour of the law
in punishment of the offenders. Sully himself does
not inform us what were the provisions of the new
law; but Father Matthias bas been more explicit,
268 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
and from him we learn, that the Marshals of
France were created judges of a court of chivalry,
for the hearing of all causes wherein the honour of
a noble or gentleman was concerned, and that such
as resorted to duelling should be punished by death
and confiscation of property, and that the seconds
and assistants should lose their rank, dignity, or
offices, and be banished from the court of their
sovereign.•
But so strong a hold had the education and pre.
judjce of his age upon the mind of the King, that
though his reason condemned, his sympathies ap-
proved the duel. Notwithstanding this threatened
severity, the number of duels did not diminish, and
the wise Sully had still to lament the prevalence of
an evil which menaced society with utter disor-
ganization. In the succeeding reign the practice
prevailed, if possible, to a still greater extent, until
the Cardinal de Richelieu, better able to grapple
with it than Sully had been, made some severe ex-
amples in the very highest classes. Lord Herbert,
the English ambassador at the court of Louis XIII.
repeats, in his letters, an observation that had been
previously made in the reign of Henry IV, that it
was rare to find a Frenchman moving in good
society who had not killed his man in a duel. The
Abbe Millot says of this period, that the duel mad-
ness made the most terrible ravages. Men had
actually a frenzy for combatting. Caprice and
• Le Pere Matthias, t.ome ii. line iv.
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 269
vanity, as well as the excitement of passion, im-
posed the necessity of fighting. Friends were
obliged to enter into the quarrels of their friends,
or be themselves called out for their refusal, and re-
venge became hereditary in many familh.:s. It was
reckoned that in twenty years eight thousand let-
ters ofpardon bad been issued to persons who bad
killed others in single combat.•
Other writers confirm this statement. Amelot
de Houssaye, in his Memoirs, says, upon this sub-
ject, that duels were so common in the first years
of the reign of Louis XIII, that the ordinary con~
versation of persons when they met in the morning
was, ~' Do you know who fougllt !Je8terda!J f'' and
after dinner, n Do you know who fought this morn-
ing?" The most infamous duellist at that period
was De Bouteville. It was not at all necessary to
quarrel with this assassin to be forced to fight a
duel with him. When he heard that any one was
very brave, he would go to him, and say, " People
tell me thai you are brave; you and I mu1t fight
together!" Every morning the mo:tt notorious
bravos and duellists used·to assemble at his bouse,
to take a breakfast of bread and wine, and prac-
tise fencing. M. de Valen~ay, who was after-
wards elevated to the rank of a cardinal, ranked
very high in the estimation of De Bouteville and
his gang. Hardly a day passed but what be was
engaged in some duel or other, either as principal
*' ., Elemena de l'Hiatoire de France, vol.iii. p. ~19.
270 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
·or second ; and he once challenged De Bouteville
himself, his best friend, because l>e Bouteville had
fought a duel without inviting him to become his
second. This quarrel was only appeased on the
promise ofDe Bouteville that, in his next encounter,
he would not fail to avail himself of his services.
For that purpose be went out the same day, and
picked a quarrel with the Marquis des Portes.
M. de Valen~ay, according to agreement, had the
pleasure of serving as his second, and of running
through the body M. de Cavois, the second of the
Marquis des Portes, a man who had never done him
any injury, and whom be afterwards acknowledged
he had never seen before.
Cardinal Richelieu devoted much attention to
this lamentable state of public morals, and §eems
to have concurred with his great predecessor,
Sully, that nothing but the most rigorous seve-
rity could put a stop to the evil. The subject
indeed was painfully forced upon him by his
enemies. The Marquis de Themines, to whom
Richelieu, then Bishop of Lu~on, had given offence
by some representations he had made to Mary of
Medicis, determined, since he could not challenge
an ecclesiastic, to challenge his brother. An op-
portunity was soon found. Themines, accosting
the Marquis de Richelieu, complained, in an insult-
ing tone, that the Bishop of Lu~on had broken his
faith. The Marquis resented both the manner and
matter of: his speech, and readily aecepted a chal-
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 271
lenge. They met in the Rue d'Angouleme, and
the unfortunate Richelieu was stabbed to the heart,
and instantly expired. From that moment the
Bishop became the steady foe of the practice of
duelling. Reason and the impulse of brotherly love
alike combined to make him detest it, and when
his power in France was firmly established, he set
vigorously about repressing it. In his" Testament
Politique," he bas collected his thoughts upon the
subject, in the chapter entitled "Des moyens
d'arreter les Duels." In spite ofthe edicts that he
published, the members of the nobility persisted in
fighting upon the most trivial and absurd pretences.
At last Richelieu made a terrible example. The
infamous De B?uteville challenged and fought the
Marquis de Beuoron; and, although the duel itself
was not fatal to either, its consequences were fatal
to both. High as they were, Richelieu resolved
that the law should reach them, and they were both
tried, found guilty, and beheaded. Thus did·society
get rid of one of the most bloodthirsty scoundrels
that ever polluted it.
In 1682 two noblemen fought a duel, in which
they were both killed. The officers of justice had
notice of the breach of the law, and Mrived at the
scene of combat before the friends of the parties
had time to remove. the bodies. In conformity
with the Cardinal's severe code upon the subject,
the bodies were ignominiously stripped, and hanged
upon a gallows, with their heads downwards, for
i72 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
several hours, within sight of all the people.• This
severity sobered the frenzy of the nation for a
time; but it was soon forgotten. Men's minds
~ere too deeply imbued with a false notion of honour
to be brought to a right way of thinking: by such
examples, however striking, Richelieu was un~ble
to persuade them to walk in the right path, though
he could punish them for choosing the wrong one.
He had, with aU his acuteness, miscalculated the
spirit of duelling. It was not death that a duellist
feared : it was shame, and the contempt of his fel-
lows. As Adqison remarked more than eighty
years afterwards, " Death was not sufficient to de-
ter men who made it their glory to despise it ; but
if every one who fought a duel were_to stand in the
pillory, it would quickly diminish the number of
those imaginary men of honour, and put an end to
so absurd a practice." Richelieu never thought of
this.
Sully says, that in his time the Germans were
also much addicted to duelling. There were three
places where it was legal to fight ; Witzburg, in
Franconia, and Uspach and Halle, in Swabia.
Thither, of course, Tast numbers repaired, and
murdered each other under sanction of the law.
At an earlier period, in Germany, it was held highly
disgraceful to refuse to fight. Any one who sur-
rendered to his adversary for a simple wound that
did not disable him, was reputed infamous, and
• Mercure de France, vol. xiii.
DUELS AND ORDEALS.
could neither cut his beard, bear arms, mount on
horseback, or hold any office in the state. He who
fell in a duel was buried with great pomp and splen-
dour.
In the year 1652, just after Louis XIV. had
attained his majority, a desperate duel was fought
between the Dukes de Beaufort and De Nemours,
each attended by four gentlemen. Although bro·
thers-in·law, they had long been enemies, and their
constant dissensions had introduced much disor-
ganization among the troops which they severally
commanded. Each had long sought an opportunity
for combat, which at last arose on a misunderstand-
ing relative to the places they were to occupy at
the council board. They fought with pistols, and,
at the first discharge, the Duke de Nemours was
shot through the body, and almost instantly ex-
pired. Upon this the Marquis de Villars, who
seconded Nemours, challenged Hericourt, the se-
cond of the Duke de Beaufort, a man whom he
had never before seen ; and the challenge being
accepted, they fought even more desperately than
their principals. This combat, being with swords,
lasted longer than the first, and was more exciting
to the six remaining gentlemen whQ stayed to wit·
ness it. The result was fatal to Hericourt, who
fell pierced to the heart by the sword of De Villars.
Anything more savage than this can hardly be
imagined. Voltaire says such duels were frequent,
and the compiler of the "Dictionnaire d'Anec·
VOL. I. T
DUELS AND ORDEALS.
dotes" informs us, that the number of seconds was
not fixed. As many as ten, or twelve, or twenty,
were not unfrequent, and they often fought to-
gether after their principals were disabled. The
highest mark of friendship one man could manifest
towards another, was to choose him for his second;
and many gentlemen were so desirous of serving in
this capacity, that they endeavoured to raise every
slight misunderstanding into a quarrel, that they
might have the pleasure of being engaged in it.
The Count de Bossy Rabutin relates an instance of
this in his Memoirs. He says, that as he was one
evening coming out of the theatre, a gentleman,
named Bruc, whom he had not before known,
stopped him very politely, and, drawing him aside,
asked him if it was true that the Count de Thianges
had called him (Bruc) a drunkard 1 Bussy re-
plied, that he really did not know, for he saw the
Count very seldom. " Oh ! he is your uncle !" re-
plied Bruc; u and, as I cannot have satisfaction
from him, because he lives so far off in the country,
I apply to you." " I see what you are at," replied
Bussy, rr and, since you wish to put me in my
uncle's place, I answer, that whoever asserted that
he called you a drunkard, told a lie!" "My bro-
iher said so," replied Bruc, u and he is a child."
" Horsewhip him, then, for his falsehood/' returned
De Bussy. "I will not have my brother called a
liar," returned Bruc, determined to quarrel with
him; "so draw, and defend yourself!" They both
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 275
drew their swords· in the public street, but were
separated by the spectators. They agreed, how-
ever, to fight on a future occasion, and with all the
regular forms of the duello. A few days after-
wards, a gentleman, whom De Bussy had never
before seen, and whom he did not know, even by
name, called upon him, and asked if be might have
the.privilege of serving as his second. He added,
that he neither knew hitu nor Bruc, except by repu-
tation, but, having made up his mind to be second
to one of them, he bad decided upon accompanying
De Bossy as the braver man of the two. De Bussy
thanked him very sincerely for his politeness, but
begged to be excused, as he bad already engaged
four seconds to accompany him, and he was afraid
that if he took any more, the affair would become a
battle instead ofa duel.
When such quarrels as these were looked upon
as mere matters of course, the state of society must
have been indeed awful. Louis XIV. very early
saw the evil, and as early determined to remedy
it. ft was not, however, till the year 1679, when
he instituted the "Chambre Ardente," for the trial
of the slow poisoners and pretenders to sorcery,
that he publiahed any edict against duelling. In
that year his famous edict was promulgated, in
which he reiterated and confirmed the severe enact-
ments of his predecessors, Henry IV. and Louis
XIII, and expressed his determination never to
pardon any offender. By this celebrated ordinance
T2
276 DUElS AND ORDEALS.
a supreme court of honour was established, com·
posed of tl1e Marshals of France. They were
bound, on taking the office, to give to every one
who brought a well-founded complaint before them,
such reparation as would satisfy the justice of the
case. Should any gentleman against whom com-
plaint was made refuse to obey the mandate of
the court of honour, he might be punished by fine
and imprisonment ; and when that was not possi-
ble, by reason ofhis absenting himself from the king-
dom,his estates might be confiscated till his return.
Every man who sent a challenge, be the cause
ofoffence what it might, was deprived of all redress
from the court of honour-suspended three years
from the exercise of any office in the state--was
further imprisoned for two years, and sentenced
to pay a fine of half his yearly income.
He who accepted a challenge, was subject to the
same punishment. Any servant, or other person,
who knowingly became the bearer of a challenge,
was, if found guilty, sentenced to stand in the
pillory and be publicly whipped for the first of-
fence, and for the second, sent for three years to
the galleys.
Any person who actually fought, was to be held
guilty of murder, even though death did not ensue,
and was to be punished accordingly. Persons in
the higher ranks of life were to be beheaded, and
those of the middle class hanged upon a gallows,
and their bodies refused Christian burial.
n '1
I
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 211
At the same time that Louis published this
severe edict, he exacted a promise from his prin-
cipal nobility that they would never engage in a
duel on any pretence whatever. He never swerved
from his resolution to pursue all duellists with the
utmost rigour, and many were executed in various
parts of the country. A slight abatement of the
evil was the consequence, and in the course of a
few years one duel was not fought where twelve
had been fought previously. A medal was struck
to commemorate the circumstance, by the express
command of the King. So much had be this ob-
ject at heart, that, in his will, he particularly
recommended to his successor the care of his edict
against duelling, and warned him against any ill-
judged lenity to those who disobeyed it.
• A singular law formerly existed in Malta with
regard to duelling. By this law it was permitted,
but only upon condition that the parties should
fight in one particular street. If they presumed to
settle their quarrel elsewhere, they were held guilty
of murder, and punished accordingly. What was
also very singular, they were bound, under heary
penalties, to put up their swords when requested to
do so by a priest, a knight, or a woman. It does
not appear, however, that the ladies or the knights
exercised this mild and beneficent privilege to any
great extent; the former were too often themselves
the cause of duels, and the latter sympathised too
much in the wounded honour of the combatants to
278 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
attempt to separate them. The priests alone were
the great peacemakers. Brydone says, that a cross
was always painted on the wall opposite to the .spot
where a knight had been killed, and that in the
" street of duels,. he counted about twenty of
them.•
In England the private duel was also practised
to a scandalous extent, towards the end of the six.:
teenth and beginning of the seventeenth centuries.
The·judicial combat now began to be more rare,
but several instances of it are mentioned in his-
tory. One was instituted in the reign of Eliza-
beth, and another so late as the time of Charles I.
Sir Henry Spelman gives an account of that which
took place in Elizabeth•s reign; which is curious,
perhaps the more so when we consider that it was.
perfectly legal, and that similar combats remained
so till the year 1819. A proceeding having been
instituted in the Court of Common Pleas for the
recovery of certain manorial rights in the county
of Kent, the defendant offered to prove by single
c~mbat his right to retain possession. The plain-
tiff accepted the challenge, and the Court having
no power to stay the proceedings, agreed to the
champions who were to fight in lieu of the prin-
cipals. The Queen commanded the parties to
compromise; but it being represented to Her Ma-
jesty that they were justified by law in the course
they were pursuing, she allowed them to proceed.
* Brydone's "Tour in Malta." 177~.
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 279
On the day appointed,-the Justices of the Commol\
Pleas, and all the council engaged in the cause,
appeared as umpires of tpe combat, at a place. in
Tothill-fields, where the lists had been prepared.
The champions were ready for the encounter, and
the plaintifF and defendant were publicly called to
come forward and acknowledge them. The de-
fendant answered to his name, and recognised his
champion with the due formalities, but the plaintiff
did not appear. Without his presence and au-
thority the combat could not take place ; and his
absence being considered an abandonment of his
claim, he was declared to be nonsuited, and barred
for ever from renewing his suit before any other
tribunal whatever.
The Queen appears to have disapproved per-
sonally of this mode of settling a disputed claim,
but her judges and legal advisers made no attempt
to alter the barbarous law. The practice of pri-
vate duelling excited more indignation, from its
being of ev~ry-day occurrence. In the time of
James I. the English were so infected with the
French madness, that Bacon, when he was Attor-
ney-general, lent the aid of his powerful eloquence
to effect a reformation of the evil. Informations
were exhibited in the Star Chamber against two
persons, named Priest and Wright, for being en-
gaged, as principal and second, in a due], on which
occasion he delivered a charge that was so highly
approved of by the Lords of the Council, that they
280 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
ordered it to be printed and circulated over the
country, as a thing u very meet and worthy to be
remembered and made known unto the world."
He began by considering the natuTe and greatness
of the mischief of duelling. 11
It troubleth peace-
it disfurnisheth war- it bringeth calamity upon pri·
vate men, peril upon the state, and contempt upon
the law. Touching the causes of it/' he observed,
" that the first motive of it, no doubt, is a false
and erroneous imagination of honour and credit;
but then, the seed of this mischief being such, it
is nourished by va~n discourses and green and un-
ripe conceits. Hereunto may be added, that men
have almost lost the true notion and understanding
of fortitude and valour. For fortitude distinguish-
eth of the grounds of quarrel whether they be just;
and not only so, but whether they be worthy, and
setteth a better price upon men's lives than to
bestow them idly. Nay, it is weakness and dis-
esteem of a man•s self to put a man's life upon such
Hedger performances. A man's life is not to be
trifled with : it is to be offered up and sacrificed
to honourable services, public merits, good causes,
and noble adventures. It is in expense of blood as
it is in expense of money. It is no liberality to
make a profusion of money upon every vain occa-
sion, neither is it fortitude to make effusion of
blood, except the cause of it be worth."•
• See " Life and Character of Lord Bacon/' by Thomas Martin,
Barrister-at-law.
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 281
The most remarkable event connected with duel-
ling in this reign was that between Lord Sanquir,
a Scotch nobleman, and one Turner, a fencing-
master. In a trial of skiU between them, his lord-
ship's eye was accidentally thrust out by the point
of Turner's sword. Turner expressed great regret
at the circumstance, and Lord Sanquir bore his
loss with as much philosophy as he was master of,
and forgave his antagonist. Three years aftel'-
wards, Lord Sanquir was at Paris, where be was
a constant visitor at the court of Henry IV. One
day, in the course of conversation, the affable
monarch inquired how he had Jost his eye. San-
quir, who prided himself on being the most expert
swordsman of the age, blushed as be replied that
it was inflicted by the sword of a fencing-master.
Henry, forgetting his assumed character of an anti-
duellist, carelessly, and as a mere matter of course,
inquired whether the man lived 1 Nothing more
was said, but the query sank deep into the proud
heart of the Scotch baron, who returned shortly
afterwards to England, burning for revenge. His
first intent was to cha11enge the fencing-master
to single combat, but, on further consideration,
be deemed it inconsistent with his dignity to meet
him as an equal in fair and open fight. He there-
fore hired two bravos, w.ho set upon the fencing-
master, and murdered him in his own house at
Whitefriars. The assassins were taken and exe-
cuted, and a reward of one thousand pounds offered
i8i DUELS AND ORDEALS.
for the apprehension of their employer. Lord
Sanquir concealed himself for several days, and
then surrendered to take his trial, in the hope
(happily false) that Justice would belie her name.
and be lenient to a murderer because he was a
nobleman, who, on a false point of honour, had
thought fit to take revenge into his own hands.
The most powerful intercessions were employed
in his favour, but James, to his credit, was deaf
to them all. Bacon, in his character of Attorney-
general, prosecuted the prisoner to conviction ;
and he died the felon's death, on the 29th of
June, 1612, on a gibbet erected in front of tho
gate of Weatminster Hall.
With regard to the public duel, or trial by battle,
demanded under the sanction of the law, to ter-
minate a quarrel which the ordinary course of jus-
tice could with difficulty decide, Bacon was equally
opposed to it, and thought that in no case should
· it be granted. He suggested that there should
be declared a constant and settled resolution in
the state to abolish it altogether; that care should
be taken that the evil be no more cockered, nor the
hu_
mour of it fed, but that all persons found guilty
should be rigorously punished by the Star Ch~m­
ber, and those of eminent quality banished from
the court.
In the succe~ding reign, when Donald Mackay,
the first Lord Reay, accused David Ramsay of trea-
son, in being concerned with the Marquis of Hamil-
DUELS AND ORDEALS. ~88
ton in a design upon the crown of Scotland, he was
challenged by the latter to make good his assertion
by single combat.• It had been at first the in-
tention of the government to try the case by the
common law, but Ramsay thought be would stand
a better chance of escape by recurring to the old
and almost exploded custom, but which was still
the right of every man in _
appeals of treason. Lord
Reay readily accepted the challenge, and both were
confined in the Tower until they found security
that they would appear on a certain day, appointed
by the court, to determine the question. The ma,.. '
nagement of the affair was delegated to the Ma-
rischal Court of Westminster, and the Earl of
Lindsay was created Lord Constable of England
for the purpose. Shortly before the day appointed,
Ramsay confessed in substance all that Lord Reay
,had laid to his charge, upon which Charles I. put
a stop to the proceedings.
But in England, about this period, sterner dis-
putes arose among men than those mere individual
matters which generate duels. The men of the
Commonwealth encouraged no practice of the kind,
and the subdued aristocracy carried their habits
and prejudices elsewhere, and fought their duels
at foreign courts. Cromwell's Parliament, how-
ever,-although the evil at that time was not so
crying,-published an order, in 1654, for the pre-
vention of duels, and the punishment of all con-
~ See" History ofthe House and Clan ofMackay."
284 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
cerned in them. Charles II, on his restoration,
also issued a proclamation upon the subject. In
his reign an infamous duel was fought -infa-
mous, not only from its own circumstances, but
from the lenity that was shown to the principal
offenders.
The worthless Duke of Buckingham, having
debauched the Countess of Shrewsbury, was
challenged by her husband to mortal combat, in
January 1668. Charles II. endeavoured to pr~
vent the duel, not from any regard to public mo-
rality, but from fear for the life of his favourite.
He gave commands to the Duke of Albemarle to
confine Buckingham to his house, or take some
other measures to prevent him from fighting. Al-
bemarle neglected the order, thinking that the
King himself might prevent the combat by some
surer means. The meeting took place at Barn·
Elms, the injured Shrewsbury being attended by
Sir John Ta1bot, his relative, and Lord Bernard
Howard, son of the Earl of Arundel. Buckingham
was accompanied by two of his dependants, Cap-
tain Holmes and Sir John Jenkins. According to
the barbarous custom of the age, not only the prin-
cipals, but the seconds, engaged each other. Jen-
kins was pierced to the heart, and left dead upon
the field, and Sir John Talbot severely wounded in
both arms. Buckingham himself escaping with
slight wounds, ran his unfortunate antagonist
through the body, and then left the field with the
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 285
wretched woman, the cause of all tbe mischief, who,
in the dress of a page, awaited the issue of tbe
conflict in a neighbouring wood, holding her para-
mour's horse to avoid suspicion. Great influence
was exerted to save the guilt.y parties from punish·
ment, and the master, as base as the favourite,
made little difficulty in granting a free pardon
to all concerned. In a royal proclamation issued
shortly afterwards, Charles II. formally pardoned
the murderers, but declared his intention never
to extend, in future, any mercy to such offenders.
It would be hard after this to say who was the
most infamous, the King, the favourite, or the
courtezan.
In the reign of Queen Anne, repeated complaints
were made of the prevalence of duelling. Addi·
son, Swift, Steele, and other writers, employed
their powerful pens in reprobation of it. Steele
especially, in the "Tatler" and u Guardian:• ex-
posed its impiety and absurdity, and endeavoured,
both by argument and by ridicule, to bring his coun-
trymen to a right way of thinking.• His comedy
of cr The Conscious Lovers" contains an admirable
exposure of the abuse of the word honour, which
Jed men into an error so lamentable. Swift, writ-
ing upon the subject, remarked that he could
see no harm in rogues and fools shooting each
other. Addison and Steele took higher ground,
• See" Spectator," Noa. 841. 97, and 99 ; and "Tatler," Nos.
Z5, :Z6. !9. ~1. 38, and 39 ; and "Guardian," No. ZO.
286 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
and the latter, in the " Gu~rdian,t' summed up
nearly all that could be said upon the subject in
the following impressive words :- " A Christian
and a gentleman are made inconsistent appella-
tions of the same person. You are not to expect
eternal life if you do not forgive injuries, and your
mortal life is rendered uncomfortable if you are
not ready to commit a murder in resentment of an
affront ; for good sense, as well as religion, is so
utterly banished the world that men glory in their
very passions, and pursue trifles with the utmost
vengeance, so little do they know that to forgive is
the most arduous pitch human nature can arrive
at. A coward bas often fought - a coward bas
often conquered, but a coward never forgave."
Steele also published a pamphlet, in which he
gave a detailed account of the edict of Louis XIV,
and the measures taken by that monarch to cure
his subjects of their murderous folJy.
On the 8th of May, 1711, Sir Cbolmely Deering,
M. P. for the county of Kent, was slain in a duel
by Mr. Richard Thornhill, also a member of the
House of Commons. Three days afterwards, Sir
Peter King brought the subject under the notice of
the Legislature, and after dwelling at considerable
length on the alarming increase of the practice, ob-
tained leave to bring in a bill for the prevention
and punishment of duelling. It was read a firat
time that day, and ordered for a second reading in
the ensuing week.
DUELS -4ND ORDEALS. i87
About the same time the attention of the Upper
House of Parliament was also drawn to the subject
in the most painful manner. Two of its most
noted members would have fought, had it not been
that Queen Anne received no.tice of their intention,
and exacted apledge that they would desist; while
a few months afterwards, two other of its members
lost their lives in one of the most remarkable duels
upon record. The first affair, which happily ter-
minated without a meeting, was between the Duke
.ofMarlborough and the Earl Pawlet. The latter~
and fatal encounter, was between the Duke of Ha-
milton and Lord Mohun.
The first arose out of a debate in the LordS"
upon the conduct of the Duke of Ormond, in re-
fusing to hazard a general engagement with the
enemy, in which Earl Pawlet remarked that no-
body could doubt the courage of the Duke of Or-
mond. " He was not like a certain general, who
led troops to the slaughter, to cause great niunbers
of officers to be knocked on the head in a battle,
or against stone waUs, in order to fill ·his pockets
by disposing of their commissions.'' Every one felt
that the remark was aimed at the Duke of Marl-
borough, but he remained silent, though evidently
suffering in mind. Soon after the House broke
up, the Earl Pawlet received a visit ·from Lord
Mohun, who told him that the Duke of Marlbo-
rough was anxious to come to an explanation with
him relative to some expressions he had made use
288 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
ofin that day's debate, and therefore prayed him
to" go and take a little air in the country." Earl
Pawlet did not affect to misunderstand the hint,
but asked him in plain terms whether he brought
a challenge from the Duke. Lord Mohun said his
message needed no explanation, and that be (Lord
Mohun) would accompany the Duke of Marlbo-
rough. He then took his leave, and Earl Pawlet
returned home and told his lady that he was going
out to fight a duel with .the Duke of Marlborough.
His lady, alarmed for her lord's safety, gave
notice of his intention to the Earl of Dartmouth,
who immediately, in the Queen's name, sent to
the Duke of Marlborough, and commanded him
not to stV abroad. He also caused Earl Pawlet's
house to be guarded by two sentinels ; and having
taken these precautions, informed the Queen of the
whole affair. Her Majesty sent at once for the
Duke, expressed her abhorrence of the custom of
duelling, and required his word of honour that
he would proceed no further. The Duke pledged
his word accordingly, and the affair terminated.
The lamentable duel between the Duke of Ha..
milton and Lord Mohun took place in November
1712, and sprang from the following.circumstances.
A lawsuit had been pending for eleven years be-
tween these two noblemen, and they looked upon
each other in consequence with a certain degree
of coldness. They met together on the 18th of
November in the chambers of Mr. Orlebar, a Mas-
(l '11,.
'
DUELS AND ORDEALS. ~89
ter in Chancery, when, in the course of conversa..
tion, the Duke of Hamilton reflected upon the con-
duct of one of the witnesses in the cause, saying
that he was a person who had neither truth nor
justice in him. Lord Mohun, somewhat nettled at
this remark, applied to a witness favourable to hi!J
side, made answer hastily, that Mr. Whiteworth,
the person ·alluded to, had quite as much truth and
justice in him as the Duke of Hamilton. The
Duke made no reply, and no one present imagined
that he took offence at what was said ; and when
he went out of the room, he made a ]ow and cour-
teous salute to the Lord Mohun. In the evening,
General Macartney called twice upon the Duke
with a challenge from Lord Mohun, and failing in
seeing him, sought him a third time at a tavern,
where he found him, and delivered his message~
The Duke accepted the challenge, and the day
after the morrow, which was Sunday, the 15th of
November, at seven in the morning, was appointed
for the meeting.
At that hour they assembled in HyQ,e Park, the
Duke being attended by his relative, Colonel Ha..
milton, and the Lord Mohun by General Macart..
ney. They jumped over a ditch into a place called
the Nursery, and prepared for the combat. The
Duke of Hamilton, turning to General Macartney,
said, "Sir, you are the cause of this, let the event he
what il will." Lord Mohun did not wish that the
seconds should engage, but the Duke insisted that
VOL. J, u
•
DUELS AND ORDEALS.
~~ Maca,.tney sh9tlld haroe a shat·e in the dance." · An
being ready, the two principals took up their po-
sitions, and fought with swords so desperately that,
after a short time, they both fell down,. mortally
wounded. The Lord Mohun expired upon the spot_
and the Duke of Hamilton in the arms of his ser-
vants as they were carrying him to his coach.
This unhappy termination caused the greatest
excitement, not only in the metropolis, but all over
the country. The Tories, grieved at the loss ofthe
Duke of Hamilton, charged the fatal combat on
the Whig party, whose leader, the Duke of Marl-
borough, had so .recently set the example of poli-
tical duels. They called Lord Mohun the .bully of
the Whig faction, (he had already killed three mea
in duels, and been twice tried fOI' murder), and
asserted openly, that the quarrel was concocted
between him and General Macartney to rob the
country ofthe services of the nuke of Hamilton by
murdering him. It was also asserted, that the
wound of which the Duke died was not inflicted by
Lord Mohun, but by Macartney; and every means
was used to propagate ibis belief. Colonel Hamil-
ton, against whom and Macartney the coroner~s
jury had returned a verdict of wilful murder, sur-
!endered a few days afterwards; and was 'eXamined
before a privy council sitting at the house of Lord
Dartmouth. He then deposed, that seeing Lord
Mohun fall, and the Duke upon him, be ran to the
Duke's assistance, and that he might with the more
'l'.
'
.PU£LS .AND ORX>2,AI.$. '}a9l
ase Aelp bim, )le ibJpg 4mfn ~th ~ei,l' sw9rd.s,
·~nd, /116 he wa!J .rajsing ~~e J)~~ up, ~e sarp ,Mqo-
·
(ITtflty fJUike a push ~t him. UpPD·this dep9~-ion
.a royal .pr()(:lamati()n was immediat~y issue(J, offer.-
ing a reward-,of 500l. fQr the appre\le~sion ~f M~c..
artney, to wsich the Duchess of Har;nilt9,D ah;er:-
twards added a reward of 8001.
Upon the further examination of Colonel HaJDjl-
ton, it was found that reliance cou)d not be pl~d
·O:D all ·ais statements, ~ that he contr~icted
rumself in several important part~culars. He was
arraigned .at ~he Old Baileyfo.r the murder of Lord
M~hun, the whole political circlt:S of London ·being
'in a feve.r of excitement for the res.ult. All the
Tory party prayed for hi.s ;acquittal, and a Tory
mob ·sur.rounded the door!$ and all the avenues
leadiJ;}g to the ®\llt of justice for many hours be..
fore the trial began. The examigatio-g of witllesses
lasted seven hours. The crim.inal still persisted in
accusing General Macartney of the murde;~" of the
Duke of Hamilton, but, in other respects, say the
newspapers of the day, prevaricated fQully. He
was found guilty of manslaughter. This favourable
v.erdict was received with .universal applause, n not
only from the court and all t.he gentlemen present,
but the common people showed a .mighty sa~fac­
tion, :which they testified :by loud and repeated
huzzas."•
As the popular delirium sabsided, and men began
,.. "Post-Boy," December 18th, 1712.
U2
< '' I
DUELS AND ORDEALS.
to rea~on cooUy upon the subject, they disbelieved
the assertions of Colonel Hamilton, that Macartney
had stabbed tlie Duke, although it was universally
admitted that he had been mucb too busy nod pre-
suming. Hamilton was shunned by all his former
companions, and his life rendered so irksome to
him, that he sold out of the Guards, and retired to
private life, ,in which he died heart-broken four
years afterwards.
General Macartney surrendered about the same
time, and was tried for murder in the Court of
King's Bench. He was, however, found guilty of
manslaughter only.
At the opening of the session of Parliament of
1718, the Queen made pointed allusion in her
speech to the frequency of d~elling, and recom..
mended to the Legislature to devise some speedy
and effectual remedy for it. A bill to that effect
was brought forward, but thrown out on the second
reading, to the very great regret of all the sensible
portion of the community.
A famous duel was fought in 1765 between Lord
Byron and Mr. Chaworth. The dispute arose at
a club-dinner, and was relative to which of the two
had the largest quantity of game on his estates.
Infuriated by wine and passion, they retired in-
stantly into an adjoining room, and fought with
swords across a table, by the feeble glimmer of a
tallow-candle. Mr. Chaworth, who was the more
expert swordsman of the two, received a mortal
~.
n '1
'
DUELS AND ORDEAI.S. 298
wound, and shortly afterwards expired. .Lord By-
ron was brought to trial for the murder before the
House of.Lords ; and it appearing clearly, that the
duel was not premeditated, but fought at once1 and
in the heat of passion, he was found guilty of man-
slaughter only, and ordered to be discharged upon
payment of his fees. This was a very bad example
for the country, and duelling of course fell into llO
disrepute after such a verdict.
ln.France, more se-verity was exercised. In the
year 1769, the Parliament of Grenoble took cogni-
zance of the delinquency of the Sieur Duchelas,
one of its members, who challenged and killed in
a duel a captain of the Flemish legion. The ser-
vant of Duchelas officiated as second, and wa&
arraigned with his master for the murder of the
captain. They were both found guilty. Duchelas
was broken alive on the wheel, and the servant
condemned to the galleys for life.
A barbarous and fiercely-contested duel was
fought in November 1778, between two foreign
adventurers, at Bath, named Count Rice and the
Vicomte du Barri. Some dispu~e arose relative
to a gambling transaction, in ~be course of which
Du Barri contradicted an assertion of the other,
by saying, u That is not true!" Count Rice im..
mediately asked him if he knew the very dis-
.agreeable meaning of the words he had employ-
ed. Du Barri said he was perfectly well aware
of their meaning, and that Rice might interpret
DUELS AND ORDEALS.
tliem just as he pleased. A challenge was imme-
diately given and accepted. Seconds were sent
lor, who, arriving with but little delay, the whole
party, though it was not long after midnight, pro.
eee~ed to a place called ClaTerton Down, where
they remained with R surgeon until da)tligbt; They
then prepared ror the encounter, each being armed
with two pistols and a sword. The ground baring
been marked out by the seconds, Du Barri fired
first, and wounded his opponent in the thigh.
Count Rice then levelled his pistol, and shot
Dti Batri mortally in the breast. So angry were
the combatants; that they refused to desist; both
stepped baek ·a few paces, and then rushing for..
ward, dischatged their second pistols at each other.
Neither shot took effect, and both throwing away
their pistols; prepared tb finish the sanguinary
struggle by the sword. They took their places,
and were advancing towards each other, when the
Vicomte du Barri suddenly staggered, grew pale,
and, falling to the ground, exclaimed, '' Je vous de-
mande ma tJie.'' His opponent had but just time to
answer, that he granted it, when the unfortunate
Du Barri turned upon the grass, and expired with
& heavy groan. The survivor of this savage coli·
flict was then removed to his lodgings, where be
lay for some weeks iti a dangerous state. The
coroner's juryJ in the mean while, sat upon the body
ofDu llatii, and disgra£ed themselves by returning
a verdict of manslaughter only. Count Rice, upon
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 298
his recovery, was indicted for the murder notwith-
standing this verdict. On his trial he ·entered
into a long defence of his conduct, pleading the
fairness of the duel, and its unpremeditated na...
ture ; and, at the same time, expressing his deep
regret for the unfortunate death of Du Barri,
with whom for many years he had been bound
in ties of the strictest friendship. These con-
siderations appear to have weighed with the jury,
and this fierce duellist was again found ·guilty of
manslaughter only, and escaped with a merely
nominal punishment.
A due], less remarkable from its circumstances,
but more so from the rank of the ·parties, took
place in 1789. The combatants on this occasion
were the Duke of York and Colonel Lenox, tlte
nephew and heir of the Duke of Richmond. The
cause of offence was given by the Duke of York,
who had said, in presence of several officers of
the Guards, that words had been used to Colonel
Lenox at Daubigny's to which no gentleman ought
to have submitted. Colonel Lenox went up to
the Duke on parade, and asked him publicly whe-
ther he had made such an assertion. The Duke of
York, without answering his question, coldly order.
ed him to his post. When parade was over, he
took an opportunity of aaying publicly in the or-
derly room before Colonel Lenox, that he desired
no protection from his rank as a prince and his
station as commanding officer ; adding that, when
196 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
he was ~ff duty, he wore a plain brown coat li~e
a private gentleman, and was ready as such to give
satisfaction. Colonel Lenox desired nothing bet~
ter tha.n satisfaction ; that is to say, to run the
chance of shooting the Duke through the body,
or being himself shot. . He accordingly challenged
his Royal Highness, and they met on Wimbledon
Common. Colonel Lenox fired first, and the ball
whizzed past the head of his opponent, so near
·to it as to graze his projecting curl. The Duke
refused to return the fire, and the' seconds inter-
fering, the affair terminated.
Colonel Lenox was very shortly afterwards en-
gaged in another duel arising out of this. A Mr.
Swift wrote a pamphlet in reference to the dispute
between him and the Duke of York, at some ex-
pressions in which he took so much offence, as t~
imagine that nothing but a shot at the writer could
atone for them. They met on the Uxbridge Road,
but no damage was done to either party.
The Irish were for a long time renowned for
their love of due~ling. The slightest offence which
it is possible to imagine that one man could ofFer
to another, was sufficient to provoke a challenge.
Sir Jonah Barrington relates, in his Memoirs, that,
previous to the Union, during the time of a dis-
puted election in Dublin, it was no unusual thing
for three-and-twenty duels to be fought in a day.
Even in times of less excitement, they were so
common as to be deemed unworthy of note by the
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 297
regular chroniclers of events, except in cases where
one or both of the combatants were killed.
In those days, in Ireland, it was not only the man
of the military, but of every profession, who had to
work his way to eminence with the sword or the
pistol. Each poHtical party had its regular corps of
bullies, or fire-eaters, as they ,were called, who qua-
lified themselves for being the pests of society by
spending all their spare time in firing at targets.
They boasted that they could bit an opponent in
any part of his body they pleased, and made up
their minds before the encounter began whether
they should kill him, disable, or disfigure him for
life-lay him on a bed of suffering for a twelve-
month, or merely graze a limb.
The evil had reached an alarming height, when,
in the year 1808, an opportunity was afforded to
King George III. o( showing in a striking manner
his detestation of the practice, and of setting an
example to the Irish that such murders were not
to be committed with impunity. A dispute arose,
in the month of June 1807, between Major Camp-
bell and Captain Boyd, officers of the 21st regi-
ment, stationed in Ireland, about the proper man-
ner of giving the word of command on parade..
Hot words ensued on this slight occasion, and the
result was a challenge from Campbell to Boyd.
They retired into the mess-room shortly afterwards,
and each stationed himself at a corner, the distance
obliquely being but seven paces. Here, without
298 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
friends or seconds being present, they fired at each
other, and Captain Boyd fell mortally wounded be-
tween the fourth and fifth ribs. A surgeon who
cam'e in shortly, found him sitting in a chair, vomit-
ing and suffering great agony. He was led into
another room, Major Campbell following, in great
distress and perturbation of mind. Boyd survived
but eighteen hours, and just before his death, said,
in reply to a question from his opponent, that the
duel was not fair, and added, "You hurried me,
Campbell- you're a bad man."-" Good God!"
replied Campbell, cc will you mention before these
gentlemen, was not everything fair 1 Did you not
say that you were ready?~' Boyd answered faintly,
cr Oh, no ! you know I wanted you to wait and
have friends." On being again asked whether all
was fair, the dying man faintly murmured cc Yes :"
but in a minute after, he said, "You're a bad
man!'' Campbell was now in great agitation, and
wringing his hands convulsively, he exclaim-ed,
" Oh, Boyd ! you are the happiest man of the
two I Do you forgive me 1, Boyd replied, " I
forgive you- I feel for you, as I know you do for
me." He shortly afterwards expired, and Major
Campbell made his escape from Ireland, and lived
for some months with his family under an assumed
name, in the neighbourhood of Chelsea. He was,
however, apprehended, and brought to trial at
Armagh, in August 1808. He said while in pri..
son, that, if found guilty of murder, he should
DUELS AND ORDEALS. i99
suffer as an example to duellists in Ireland; but
he endeavoured to buoy himself up, with the hope
that the jury would only convict him of man..
11laughter. It was proved in evidence upon the
trial, that the duel was not fought immediately
after the offence was given, but that Major Camp-
be11 went home and drank tea with his family,
before be sought Boyd for the fatal encounter.
The jury returned a verdict of wilful muide:r
against him, but recommended him to mercy on
the ground that the duel had been a fair one.
He was condeJJlned to die on the Monday follow..
ing, but was after.wards ·respited for a few days
longer. In the mean time the greatest exertions
were made in his behalf. His unfortunate wife
went upon her knees before the Prince of Wales,
to move him to use his inHuence with the King,
in favour of her unhappy husband. Everything
a fond wife and a courageous woman could do,
she tried, to gain the royal clemency ; but George
III. was inflexible, in consequence of the repre-
sentations of the Irish Viceroy that an example was
necessary. The Jaw was therefore allowed to take
its course, and the victim of a false spirit ofhonour
died the death of a felon.
. The most inveterate duellists of the present day
are the students in the Universities of Germany.
They fight on the most frivolous pretences, and
aettle with swords and pistols the schoolboy dis-
putes which in other countries are arranged by the
300 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
more harmless medium of the fisticuffs. It was at
one time the custom among these savage youths
to prefer the sword combat, for the facility it gave
them of cutting off the noses of their opponents.
To disfigure them in this manner was an object
of ambition, and the German duellists reckoned the
number of these disgusting trophies which they had
borne away, with as much satisfaction as a success-
ful general the provinces he had reduced or the
cities he had taken.
But it would be wearisome to enter into the mi-
nute detail of aU the duels of modern times. If an
examination were made into the general causes
whicla produced them, it would be found that in
every case they had been eith.er of the most trivial
or the.most unworthy nature. Parliamentary duels
were at one time very common, and amongst the
names of those who have soiled a great reputation
by conforming to the practice, may be mentioned
those ofWarren Hastings, SirPhilipFrancis,Wilkes,
Pitt, Fox, Grattan, Curran, Tierney, and Canning.
So difficult is it even for the superior mind to &ee
itself from the trammels with which foolish opibion
has enswathed it- not one of these celebrated per-
sons who did not in his secret soul condemn the folly
to which he lent himself. The bonds of reason,
though iron-strong, are easily burst through; but
those offo11y,.though lithe and frail as the rushes
by a stream, defy the stoutest heart to snap them
asunder. Colonel Thomas, an officer of the Guards,
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 801
who was killed in a duel, added the following
clause to his will the night before he died :- u In
the first place, I commit my soul to Almighty God,
in hope of his mercy and pardon for the irreligious
step I now (in compliance with the unwarrantable
customs of this wicked world) put myself under the
necessity of taking." How many have been in the
same state of mind as this wise, foolish man ! He
knew his error, and abhorred it, but could not
resist it, for fear of the opinion of the prejudiced
and unthinking. No ~ther could have blamed him
for refusing to iight a duel.
The list of duels that have sprung from the most
degrading causes might be stretched out to an
almost indefinite extent. Sterne's father fought a
duel about a goose; and the great Raleigb about a
tavern bill.• . Scores of duels (many of them fatal)
• Raleigh, at one period of his life, appeared to be an inveterate
duellist, and it waa said of him that he had been engaged in more
encounters of the lcind than any man of note among his contem~
porariea. More than one fellow-creature he had deprived of life;
but he lived long enough to be convinced of the sinfulness of hie
conduct, and made a solemn vow never to fight another duel. The
following anecdote of his forbearance is well known, but it will
bear repetition :-
A dispute arose in a coffee-house between him and a young man
on some trivial point~ and the latter, losing b.ia temper, imperti-
nently spat in the face of the veteran. Sir Walter, instead of run·
ning him through the body, as many would have done, or chal-
lenging him to mortal combat, coolly took out hie handkerchief;
wiped hie face, and said, " Young man, if I could as easily wipe
from my conscience the etain of killing you, as I can this spittle
from my face, you should not live another minute.'' 'l'he young
man immediately begged hie pardon.
IOi DUELS AND ORDEALS.
bate b~n fought from disputes at cards, or a place
at a theatre, while hundreds of cballeDges, given
and accepted over-night, in a fit of drunkenness,
have been fought out the next ~orning to the deBtb
of one or bo.th Df the antagonists.
Two ofthe most notorious duels of modern times
had their origin in causes no more worthy than the
quarrel of a dog and the favour of a prostitute:
that between Macnamara and Montgomery arising
from the former ; and that between Best and Lord
Camelford, fr.om the latter. The dog of Mont-
gomery attacked a dog belonging to Macnamara,
and e~ch master interfe~g in behalf of his own
animal, high words ensued. The result was the
giving and accepting a challenge to mortal combat.
The parties met on the following day, when Mont-
gomery was shot dead, and his antagonist severely
wounded. This affair created a great sensation at
the time, and Heaviside, the surgeon who attended
at the fatal field to .render bis assistance, if neces-
sary, was arrested as an accessory to the murder,
and committed to New.gate.
In the duel between Best and Lord Camelford,
two pistols were used which were considered to be
the best in England. One of them was thought
slightly superior to the other, ·and it was agreed
that the belligerents should toss up a piece of money
to decide the choice of weapons. Best gained it,
and, at the first discharge, Lord Camelford fell,
mortally wounded. But little sympllthy was ex-
DUELS AND ORDEALS. SOS,
pressed for his fate; he was a confirmed duellist,
had been engaged in many meetings of the kind,
and the blood of more than one fellow-creature
lay at his door. As he had sowed, so did he reap;
and the violent man met an tij>propriate death.
It now only remains to notice the .means that
have been taken to stay the prevalence of this
madness of false honour in the various countries
of the civilized world. The efforts of tb~ govern-
ments of France and England have already been
mentioned, and their want of success is but too
well known. The same efforts have been attend-
ed with the same results elsewhere. In despo.tic
countries, where the will of the monarch has been
strongly expressed and vigorously supported, a di-
minution of the evil has for a while resulted, but
only to be increased· again, when death relaxed the
iron grasp, and a succt!ssor appeared of less de-
cided opinions upon the subject. This was the
case in Prussia under the great Frederick, of whose
aversion to duelJing a popular anecdote is record-
ed. It is stated of him that he permitted duelling
in his army, but only upon the condition that the
combatants should fight in presence of a whole
battalion of infantry, drawn up on purpose, to see
fair play. The latter received strict orders, when
one .of the belligerents felJ, to shoot the other
immediately. It is added, that the known deter-
mination of the King effectually put a stop to the
practice.
DUELS AND ORDEALS.
The Emperor Joseph II. of Austria was as firm
as Frederick, although the measures he adopted
were not so singular.' The foll;owing letter ex-
plains his views on the subject:-
u To GENERAL • • • • •
(f MY GENERAL,
u You will immediately arrest the Count of K.
and Captain W. The Count is young, passionate,
and influenced by wrong notions of birth and a,
false spirit of honour. Captain W. is an old soldier,
who will adjust every dispute with the sword and
pistol, and who has received the challenge of the
young Count.with unbecoming warmth.
ft I will suffer no duelling in my army. I de~
spise the principles of those who attempt to justify
the practice, and who would run each other through
the body in cold blood.
u When I have officers who bravely expose them-
selves to every danger in facing the enemy - who
at all times exhibit courage, valour, and resolution
in attack and defence, I esteem them highly. The
coolness with which they meet death on such occa-
sions is serviceable to their country, and at the
same time redounds to their own honour ; but
should there be men amongst them who are ready
to sacrifice everything to their vengeance and
hatred, I despise them. I consider such a man
as no better than a Roman gladiator.
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 805
'' Order a court-martial to try the two officers.
Investigate the subject of their dispute with that
impartiality which I demand from every judge;
and he that is guilty, let him be a sacrifice to
his fate and the laws.
" Such a barbarous custom, which suits the age
of the Tamerlanes and Bajazets, and which ha~t
often had such melancholy effects on single fami-
lies~ I will have suppressed and punished, even if
it should deprive me of one half of my officers.
There are still men who know how to unite the
character of a hero with that of a good subject;
and he only can be so whG respects the laws.
"JoSEPH."•
cc August 1771."
In the United States of America the code varies
considerably. In one or two of the still wild and
simple States of the Faf West, where no duel has
yet been fought, there is no specific law upon the
subject beyond that in the Decalogue, which says,
u Thou shalt do no murder." But duelling every-
where follows the steps of modern civilization, and
by the time the backwoodsman is transformed into
the citizen, be has imbibed the false notions of
honour which are prevalent in Europe, and around
• Vide the Letters of Joseph II. to distinguished Princes and
Statesmen, published for the first time_in England in " The Pam-
phleteer" for 18~1. They were originally published in Germany
a few years previously, and throw a great light upon the character
of that monarch and the events ofhis reign.
VOL. I. X
106 DU~ AND ORDEALS.
him, and is r~ady, like his progenitors, to sett1e his
dift'erences with the pistol. In the lll1\iority of the
States the punishment for challenging, fighting, or
acting as second, is solitary imprisonment and hard
labour for any period less than a year, and dis-
qualification for serving any public office for tw.enty
years. In Vermont the punishment is total dis-.
qualification for office, deprivation of the rights of
citizenship, and a fine; in fatal cases, the same
punishment as that ofmurderers. In Rhode ls1and,
the combatant, though death dQes not ensue, is
liable to be carted to the gallows, with a rope
about his neck:, and to sit in this trim for an hour,.
exposed to the peltings of the mob. He may be
further imprisoned for a year, at the option of. the
magistrate. In Connecticut the punishment is total
disqualification for office or employ, and a fine,
varying from one hundred to a thousand dollars.
The laws of Illinois require certain officers of the
state to make oath, previous to their instalment,
that they have never been, nor ever will be, con•
cerned in a duel.•
Amongst the edicts against duelling promul,gated
at various times in Europe, may be mentioned that
of Augustus King of Poland, in 1712, which de-
creed the punishment of death against principals
and seconds, and minor punishments agaios.t. the
bearers of a challenge. An edict was also published
at Munich, in 1778, according to which both prin-
• rr Encyclopedia Americana," art. Duelling.
DUELS AND ORDEALS.
eipals'and seconds, even in d~ls where ·no one was
either killed or wotmded, should be hanged, and
their bodies buried at the foot ofthe gallows.
Toe King of Naples is8ued an ordinance against
duelling in 1888, in which the punishment of
death is decreed against all concerned in a fatal
dneJ. The bodies of those killed, and of those
who may be executed in consequence, are to
be buried in unconsecrated ground, and without
any religious ceremony; nor is any monument to
be erected on the spot. The punishment for duels
in which either, or both, are wounded, and for
those in which no damage whatever is done, varies
aceording to the ease, and consists of fine, im·
prisonment, loss of rank and honours, and inca-
p8City for filling any public situation. Bearers of
challenges may also be punished with fine and
imprisonment.
It might be imagined that enactments so severe
all over the civilized world would finally eradicate.
a ·custom, the prevalence of which every wise and·
good man must deplore. But the frowns of the
law never yet have taught, and never will teach,
men to desist from this practice, as long as it is
felt that the lawgiver sympathises with it in his
'},eart. The stern judge upon the bench may say
to the unfortunate wight who has been called a liar
by some unmannerly opponent, u If you challenge
him, you meditate murder, and are guilty of mur-
x 2
808 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
der !" but the same judge, divested of his robes of
state, and mixing in the world with other men,
would say, u H you do not challenge him, if you do
not run the risk of making yourself a murderer,
you will be looked upon as a mean-spirited wretch,
unfit to associate with your fellows, and deserving
nothing but their scorn and their contempt !" It is
society, and not the duellist, who is to blame.
Female influence, too, which is so powerful in lead.
ing men either to good or to evil, takes, in this
case, the evil part. Mere animal bravery has, un.
fortunately, such charms in the female eye, that a
successful duellist is but too often regarded as a
sort of hero ; and the man who refuses to fight.
though of truer courage, is thought a poltroon,
who may be trampled on. Mr. Graves, a mem-
ber of the American Legislature, who, early in
1888, killed a Mr. Cilley in a duel, truly and el0w
quently said, on the floor of the House of Repre-
sentatives, when lamenting the unfortunate issue of
that encounter, that society was more to blame
than he was. "Public opinion," said the repentant
orator, "is practically the paramount law of the
land. Every other law, both human and divine,
ceases to be observed ; yea, withers and perishes in
contact with it. It was this paramount law of this
nation, and of this House, that forced me, under
the penalty of dishonour, to subject myself to the
code, which impelled me unwillingly into this tr~
l)UELS AND 0RDEAL5. 809
gical affair. Upon the heads of this nation, and at
the doors of this House, rests the blood with which
my unfortunate hands have been stained !"
As long as society is in this mood ; as long as it
thinks that the man who refuses to resent an insult,
deserved that insult, and should be scouted accord-
ingly, so long, it is to be feared, will duelling exist,
however severe the laws may be. Men must have
redress for injuries infficted, and when those in-
juries are of such a nature that no tribunal will
take cognizance of them, the injured will take the
law into their own hands, and right themselves in
the opinion of their fellows, at the hazard of their
lives. Much as the sage may affect to despise the
opinion of the world, there are few who would not
rather expose their lives a hundred times than be
condemned to live on, in society, but not of it-a
by-word of reproach to all who know their history,
and a mark for scorn to point his finger at.
The only practicable means for diminishing the
force of a custom which is the disgrace of civiliza...
tion, seems to be the establishment of a court of
honour, which should take cognizance of all those
delicate and almost intangible oft'ences ·which yet
wound so deeply. The court established by Louis
XIV. might be taken as a model. No man now
nghts 8 duel when a fit apology has been offel'ed,
and it should be the duty of this court to weigh
dispassionately the complaint of every man injured
810 DUELS AND ORDEALS.
in his hooour, either by word or deed, and to force
the offender to make a public apology. If he re.
fused the apology, he would be the breaker of
a second law; an offender against a high court,
as well as against the man he had injured, and
might be punished with fine and imprisonment,
the latter to last until he saw the error of his
conduct, and made the concession which the court
demanded.
If, after the establishment of this tribunal, men
should be found ofa nature so bloodthirsty as not
to be satisfied with its peaceful decisions, an4 should
resort to the old and barbarous mode of an appeal
to the pistol, some means might be found ofdealing
with them. To hang them as murderers would be
of no avail ; for to such men death would have few
terrors. Shame alone would bring them to reason.
The following code, it is humbly suggested to all
future legislators upon the subject, would, in con-
junction with the e.Stablishment of a court ofhonour,
do much towards eradicating this blot from society.
Every man who fought a duel, even though he did
not wound his opponent, should be tried, and, upon
proof of the fact, be sentenced to have his right
hand cut off. The world would then know his true
character as long as be lived. If his habits of
duelling were ao inveterate, and he should learn to
fire a pistol with his left band, he should, upon
conviction of a second offence, lose that hand also.
DUELS AND ORDEALS. 811
This law, which should allow no commutation of
the punishment, under any circumstances, would
lend strength and authority to the court of honour.
In the course of a few years duelling would be
ranked amongst exploded follies, and men would
begin to wonder that a custom so barbarous and so
impious had ever existed amongst them.
8li
THE LOVE OF THE MARVELLOUS
AND THll
DISBELIEF OF THE TRUE.
n WELL, son John," said the old woman, "and
what wonderful things did you meet with all the
time you were at sea?"- " Oh! mother," replied
John, "I saw many strange things."-".Tell us all
about them," replied his mother, "for I long to
hear your adventures."- " Well, then," said John,
u as we were sailing over the Line, what do you
think we saw 1"-H I can't imagine,'' replied his
mother.-" Well, we saw a fish rise out of the 11ea,
and fly over our ship!" u Oh! John! John! what
a liar you are!" said his mother, shaking her head,
and smiling incredulously. n True as death!" said
John; "and we saw still more wonderful things
than that.''-u Let us hear them," said his mother,
shaking her head again; "and tell the truth, John,
if you can."- " Believe it, or believe it not, as you
please," replied her son ; "but as we were sailing
up the Red Sea, our captain thought he should
like some fish for dinner ; so he told us to throw
THE LOVE OF THE MARVELLOUS. 818
our nets, and catch some."-" Well," inquired his
mother, seeing that he paused in his story. "Well,"
rejoined her son, u we did throw them, and, at the
very first haul, we brought up a chariot-wheel, made
all of gold, and inlaid with diamonds l" 11
Lord
bless us!" said his mother, 11
and what did the captain
say ?"- n Why, he said it was one of the wheels of
Pharaoh's chariot, that bad lain in the Red Sea
ever since that wicked King was drowned, with all
his host, while pursuing the Israelites."-u Well,
well,'' said his mother, lifting up her hands in admi-
ration; u now, that's very possible, and I think the
captain was a very sensible man. Tell me such
stories as that, and I '11 believe you; but never talk
to me of such things as flying fish! No, no, John,
such stories won't go down with me, I can assure
you!"
Such old women as the sailor's mother, in the
above well-known anecdote, are by no means rar~
in the world. Every age and country has pro-
duced them. They have been found in high
places, and have sat down among the learned of
the earth. Instances must be familiar to every
reader in·which the same person was willing, with
greedy credulity, to swallow the most extravagant
fiction, and yet refuse credence to a philosophical
fact. The same Greeks who believed readily that
Jupiter wooed Leda in the form of a swan, denied
stoutly that there were any physical causes for
storms and thunder, and treated as impious those
814t THE LOVE OF THE MARVELLOUS
who attempted to account for them on true philo-
sophical principles.
The reasons that thus lead mankind to believe
the marvellously falae, and to disbelieve the mar-
vellously true, may be easily gathered. Of all the
offspring of Time, Error is the most ancient, and is
so old and familiar an acquaintance, that Truth,
when discovered, comes upon most of us like an
intruder, and meets the intruder's welcome. We
all pay an involuntary homage to antiquity-a
'
1
blind homage," as Bacon calls it in his 11
Novum
Organum," which tends greatly to the obstruction
of truth. To the great majority of mortal eyes,
Time sanctifies everythingthat he does not destroy.
The mere fact of anything being spared by the
great foe makes it a favourite with us, who are sure
to fall his victims. To call a prejudice "time-hal-
lowed," is to open·a way for it into hearts where it
never before penetrated. Some peculiar custom
may disgrace the people amongst whom it ftou-
rishes ; yet men of a little wisdom refuse to aid in
Its extirpation, merely because it is old. Thus it
is with human belief, and thus .it is we bring shame
upon our own intellect.
To this cause may be added another, also men-
tioned by Lord Bacon.-8 misdirected zeal in mat-
ters of religion, which induces so many to decry a
newly-discovered truth, because the Divine recorda
contain no allusion to it, or because, at first sight,
it appears. to militate, not against religion, but
AND THE DISBELIEF OF THE TRUE. 815
against some obscure passage which has never been
fairly interpreted. The old woman in the story
could not believe that there was such a creature as a
flying-fish, because her Bible did not tell her so,
but she believed that her son had drawn up the
golden and bejewelled wheel from the Red Sea, be-
cause her Bible informed her that Pharaoh was
drowned there.
Upon a similar principle the monks of the in-
quisition believed that the devil appeared visibly
among men, that St. Anthony pulled his nose with
a pair of red-bot pincers~ and that the relics of the
saints worked miracles; yet they would not believe
GaJileo, when he proved that the earth t\ll'ned round
the sun.
Keppler, when he asserted the same fact, could
gain no bread, and little credence; but when he
pretended to tell fortunes and cast nativities, the
whole town flocked to him, and paid him enormous
fees for his falsehood.
When Roger Bacon invented the telescope and
the magic-lantern, no one believed that the un-
aided ingenuity of man could have done it; but
when some wiseacres asserted that the devil had ap-
peared to him, and given him the knowledge which
he turned to such account, no one was bold enough
to assert that it was improbable. His hint that salt-
petre, sulphur, and charcoal, mixed in certain pro-
portions, .would produce effects similar to thunder-
and lightning, was disregarded or disbelieved; but
316 TilE LOVE OF THE MARVELLOUS
the legend of the brazen head which delivered
oracles, was credited for many ages.•
Solomon De Cans, who, in the time of Cardinal
Richelieu, conceived the idea of a steam-engine, was
shut up in the Bastille as a madman, because the
idea of such an extraordinary instrument was too
preposterous for the wise age that believed in all
the abusrdities of witchcraft.
When Harvey first proved the circulation of
the blood, every tongue was let loose against him.
The thing was too obviously an imposition, and an
• Godwin, in his " Lives of the Necromancere;• gives the fol-
lowing version of this legend. Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay
entertained the project ofenclosing England with a wall, so as to
render it inacceJI8ible to any invader. They accordingly raised the
devil, as the person best able to infonn them bow this.was to be
done. The devil advised them to make a brazen bead, with all
the internal structure and organs of a hwnan head. The con-
struction would cost them much time, and they must wait with
patience till the faculty of speech descended upon it. Finally,
however, it would become an oracle, and, if the question were pro-
pounded to it, would teach them the solution of their problem.
The friars spent seven yeal'B in bringing the subject to perfection,
and waited day after day in expectation that it would utter arti-
culate sounds. At length nature became exhausted in them, and
they lay down to sleep, having first given it strictly in chatge to a
&ervant of theil'B, clownish in nature, but of strict fidelity, that he
should awaken them the moment theimage began to speak. That
period arrived. The head uttered sounds, but such as the clown
judged unworthy of notice. "Ti'TM is!" it said. No notice was
taken, and a long pause emued. " Ti'TM !tJIU !''-a similar pause,
and no notice. « Ti'TM isJXUied !". The moment these words were
)lttered, a tremendous stonn ensued, with thunder and lightning,
and the head was shivered into a thousand piect;a. Thus the
experiinent ofFriar Bacon and Friar Bungay came to nothing.
AND THE DISBELIEF OF THE TRUE. $17
attempt to deceive that public who believed that a
king's touch had power to cure the scrofula. That
a dead criminal's hand, rubbed against a wen, would
cure it, was reasonable enough ;· but that the blood
flowed through the veins was beyond ~II proba-:
bility.
In our own day, a similar fate awaited the benefi-
cent discovery ofDr. Jenner. That vaccination could
abate the virulence of, or preserve from, the small-
pox, was quite incredible; none but a cheat and
a quack could assert it : but that the introduction
of the vaccine matter into the human frame could
endow men with the qualities of a cow, was quite
J>robable. Many of the poorer people actually
dreaded that their children would grow hairy and
horned as cattle, if they sufered them to be vacci-
nated.
The Jesuit, Father Labat, the shrewd and learn-
ed traveller in South America, relates an experi-
ment which he made upon the credulity of some
native Peruvians. Holding a powerful lens in his
hand, and concentrating the rays of the sun upon
the naked arm of an admiring savage, he soon
made him roar with pain. All the tribe looked on,
first with wonder, and then with indignation aud
wonder both combined. In vain the philosopher
attempted to explain the cause of the phenomenon
-in vain be offered to convince them that there
was nothing devilish in the experiment- he was
thought to be in league with the infernal gods to
S18 THE LOVE Ol' THE MARVELLOUS
draw down the fire frotn Heaven, and was looked
upon, himself, as an awful and supernatural being.
Many attempts were made to gain pbssession of
the lens, with the view of destroying it, and thereby
robbing the Western stranger of the means of
bringing upon them the vengeance of his deities.
Very similar was the conduct of that inquiring
Brahmin, which is related by Forbes in his Oriental
Memoirs. The Brahmin had a mind better culti~
vated than his fellows ; he was smitten with a love
for the knowledge of Europe- read English books
- pored over the pages of the Encyclopedia, and
profited by various philosophical instruments ; but
on religious questions the Bxahmin was fum to the
faith of his caste and the dootrine of the Metem4
psychosis. . Lest he might sacrilegiously devour his
progenitors, he abstained from all animal food;
and thinking that he ate nothing which enjoyed
life, he supported himself, like his brethren, upon
fruits and vegetables. All the knowledge·that did
not run counter to this belief., he sought after with
avidity, and bade fair to become the wisest of his
race. In an evil hour, his English friend and in-
structor exhibited a very powerful solar microscope,
by means of which he showed him that every drop
of water that he drank teemed with life- that
every fruit was like a world, covered with innu-
merable animalculre, each of which was ~tted by
its organization for the sphere in which it moved,
and had its wants, and the capability of supply..
AND THE DISBELIEF OF THE TRUE. 819·.
ing them as completely as visible animals mil-
lions of times its bulk. The English philoso-
pher expected that his Hindoo friend would be
enraptured at the vast field of knowledge thus
suddenly opened out to him, but he was deceived..
The Brahmin from that time became an altered
man- thoughtful, gloomy, reserved, and discon-
tented. He applied repeatedly to his friend that
he would make him a present of the microscope ;,
but as it wa.
s the only one of its kind in India, and
the owner set a value upon it for other reasons,
he constantly refused the request, but offered him
the loan of it for any period he might require.
But nothing short of an unconditional gift of the
instrument would satisfy the Brahmin, who became
at Jast so importunate that the patience of the
Englishman was exhausted, and he gave it him~
A gleam of joy shot across the care-worn fea~ures
of the Hindoo as he clutched it, and bounding with
an exulting leap into the garden, he seized a large
stone, and dashed the instrument into a thousand
pieces. When called upon to explain his extra-
ordinary conduct, he said to his friend, ~· Oh that
I had remained in that happy state of ignorance
wherein you first found me ! Yet will I confess
that, as my knowledge increased, so did my plea-
sure, until I beheld the last wonders of the mi-
croscope ; from that moment I have been tor-
mented by doubt and perplexed by mystery : my
mind, overwhelmed by chaotic confusion, knows not
320 THE LOVE OP THE MARVELLOUS
where to rest, nor how to extricate itselffrom such
a maze. I am miserable, and must continue to
be so, until I enter on another stage of existence.
I am a solitary individual among fifty millions of
people, all educated in the same belief with myself
-all happy in their ignorance I So may they ever
remain! I shall keep the secret within my own
bosom, where it will corrode my peace and break
my rest. But I shaJI have some satisfaction in
knowing that I alone feel those pangs which, had
I not destroyed the instrument, might have been
extensively ~ommunicated, and rendered thousands
miserable! Forgive me, my valuable friend I and
oh, convey no mm:e implements of knowledge and
destruction I"
Many a learned man may smile at the ignorance
of the Peruvian and the Hindoo, unconscious that
he qimself is just as ignorant and as prejudiced.
Who does not remember the outcry against the
science of geology, which has hardly yet subsided !
Its professors were impiously and absurdly accused
ofdesigning to u hurl the Creator from his throne."
They were charged with sapping the foundations
of religion, and of propping atheism by the aid
of a pretended science.
The very same principle which leads to the r~
jection of the true, leads to the encouragement
of the false. Thus we may account for the suc·
cess which has attended great impostors, at times
when the truth, though not half so wondrous as
AND THE DISBELIEF OF THE TRUE~ 821'
their impositions, has been disregarded as extra-
vagant and preposterous. The man who wishes to
cheat the people, most needs found his operations
upon some prejudice or belief that already exists.
Thus the philosopbic pretenders who told fortunes
by tile stars cured all diseases by one nostrum, and
preserved from evil by charms and amulets, ran
with the current of popular belief. Errors ·that
were consecrated by time and long familiarity,
they heightened and embellished, and succeeded
to their hearts' content ; but the preacher of truth
had a foundation to make as well as a super-
structure, a difficulty which did not exist for the
preacher of error. Columbus preached a new
world, but was met with distrust and incredulity;
had he preached with as much zeal and earnest-
ness the discovery of some valley in the old one,
where diamonds hung upon the trees, or a herb
grew that cured all the ills incidental to huma-
nity, he would have found a warm and hearty
welcome-might have sold dried cabbage leaves for
his wonderful herb, and made his fortune.
In fact, it will be found in the history of every
generation and race of men, that whenever a choice
of belief between the " Wondrously False'' and the
"Wondrously True" is given to ignorance or pre-
judice, that their choice will be fixed upon the first,
for the reason that it is most akin to their own
nature. The great majority of mankind, and even
of the wisest among us, are still in the condition
VOL. I. y
Sii THE LOVE OF THE MARVELLOUS.
of the sailor's mother -believing and disbelieving
on the same grounds that she did-protesting
against the flying fish, but cherishing the golden
wheels. Thousands there are amongst us, who,
rather than pin their faith in the one fish, would
believe not only in the wheel of gold, but the cha-
riot-not only in the chariot, but in the horses and
the driver.
328
·POPULAR FOLLIES IN GREAT CITIES.
La faridondaine-la faridondon,
Vive la faridondaine !
BBB.ANGR8.
THE popular humours of a great city are a
never-failing source of amusement to the man
whose sympathies are hospitable enough to em-
brace all his kind, and who. refined though he may
be himself, will not sneer at the humble wit or
grotesque peculiarities of the boozing mechanic,
the squalid beggar, the vicious urchin, and all the
motley group of the idle, the reckless, and the
imitative that sw~rm in the alleys and l>r?adways
of a metropolis. He who walks through a great
city to find subjects for weeping, may, God knows,
nod plenty at every corner to wring his heart ; but
let such a man walk on his course, and enjoy his
grief alone- we are not of those who would ac-
company him. The miseries of us poor earth-
dwellers gain no alleviation from the sympathy of
.those who .merely hunt them out to be pathetic
.over them. The weeping philosopher too often
impairs his eyesight by his woe, and becomes ·un-
able from hi11 tears to see the remedies for the evils
Y2
824. POPULAR FOLLIES OF GREA:I' CITIES.
which he deplores. Thus it wiH often be found
that the man of no tears is the truest philanthro-
pist, as be is the best physician who wears a cheer-
ful face, even in the worst of cases.
So many pens have been employed to point out
the miseries, and so many to condemn the crimes
and vices, and more serious follies of the multitude,
that our•s shall not increase the number, at least
in this chapter. Our present task shall be less
ungracious, and wandering through the busy haunts
of great cities, we shall seek only for amusement,
and note as we pass a few of the harmless follies
and whimsies of the poor.
And, first of all, walk where we will, we cannot
help bearing from every side a phrase repeated
with delight, and received with laughter, by men
with hard hands and dirty faces -by saucy butcher
lads and errand-boys -by loose women- by hack-.
ney coachmen, cabriolet drivers, and idle fellows
who loiter at the corners of streets. Not one
utters this phrase without producing a laugh from
all within hearing. It seems applicable to ·every
circumstance, and is the universal answer to every
question; in short, it is the favourite slang phrase
of the day, a phrase that, while its brief season of
popularity lasts, throws a dash of fun and frolic-
someness over. the existence of squalid poverty and
ill-requited labour, and gives them reason to laugh
as well as their more fortunate fellows in a higher.
stage of society.
POPULAR FOLLIES OF GREAT CITIES. 325
London is peculiarly fertile in this sort of phrases,
.which spring up suddenly, no one knows exactly
in what spot, and pervade the whole population
in a few hours, no one knows how. Many years
ago the favourite phrase (for, though but a mono-
syllable, it was a phrase in itself) was Quoz. This
odd word took ~be fancy of the multitude in an
extraordinary degree, and very soon acquired an al-
most boundless meaning. When vulgar wit wished
to mark its incredulity and raise a laugh at the
same time, there was no resource so sure as this
popular piece of slang. When a man was asked a
favour which he did not choose to grant, he marked
his sense of the suitor's unparalleled presumption
by exclaiming Quoz ! When a mischievous urchin
wished to annoy a passenger, and create mirth for
his chums, he looked him in the face, and cried out
·Quoz! and the exclamation never failed in its ob-
ject. When a disputant was desirous of throwing
a doubt upon the veracity of his opponent, and
getting summarily rid of an argument which he
could not overturn, he uttered the word Quoz, with
a contemptuous curl of his lip and an impatient
shrug of his shoulders. The universal monosyllable
conveyed all his meaning, and not only told his op-
ponent that he lied, but that be erred egregiously
if he thought that any one was such a nincompoop ,
as to believe him. Every alehouse resounded with
QuoJ; .every street corner was noisy with it, and
every wall for miles around was chalked with it.
•
S26 POPULAR. FOLLIES OF GREAT CITIES.
But, like all other earthly things, Quoz had its
-.eaaon, and passed away as suddenly as it arose,
never again to be the pet and the idol of the popu-
lace. A new claimant drove it from its place, and
held UDdisputed sway till, in its turn, it was hurled
from its pre-eminence, and a successor appointed in
its stead.
11
What a shocking had hat!'' was the phra.se
that was next in vogue. No sooner had it be·
come universal, than thousands of idle but sharp
e.yes were on the watch for the passenger whose
hat showed any signs, however slight, of ancient
service. Immediately the cry arose, and, like
the whar-whoop of the Indians, was repeated by
a hundred discordant throats. He was a wise
man who, finding himself under these circum-
stances u the observed of all observers," bore his
honours meekly. He who showed symptoms of ill-
feeling at the imputations cast upon his hat, only
brought upon himself redoubled notice. .The mob
soon perceive whether a man is irritable, and, if of
their own class, they Jove to make sport of him.
When such a man, and with such a hat, passed in
those days through a crowded neighbourhood, he
might think himself fortunate if his annoyances
were confined to the shouts and cries of the popu-
lace. The obnoxious hat was often snatched from
his head, and thrown into the gutter by some prac-
tical joker, and then raised, covered with mud,
upon the end of a stick., for the admiration of the
POPULAR FOLLIES OF GREAT CITIES. 327
spectators, who held their sides with laughter, and
exclaimed in the pauses of their mirth; " Ok ! what
a shocking had hat!" "What a shocking had hat!"
Many a nervous, poor man, whose purse could but
ill spare the outlay, doubtless purchased a new hat
before the time, in order to avoid exposure in this
manner.
The origin of this singular saying, which made
fun for the metropolis for months, is not involved in
the same obscurity as that which shrouds the origin
of Quoz and some others. There had been a hotly-
contested election for the borough of Southwark,
and one of the candidates was an eminent hatter.
This gentleman, in canvassing the electors, adopted
a somewhat professional mode of conciliating their
good-will, and of bribing them without letting them
perceive that they were bribed. Whenever he called
upon or met a voter whose hat was not of the best
JDaterial, or, being so, had seen its best days, he in-
variably said, "What a shocking had hat you have
got ; call at my wa1·ehouse, and you shall have a new
()Tit r Upon the day of election this circumstance
was remembered, and his opponents made the most
of it, by inciting the crowd to keep up an incessant
cry of ~' Wlzat a shocking had hatf' all the time the
honourable candidate was addressing them. From
Southwark the phrase spread over all London, and
reigned, for a time, the supreme slang of the season.
Hookey Walker, derived from the chorus ofa popu-
lar ballad, was also high in favour at one time, and
~~8 POPULAR FOLLIES OF 'GREAT ClTIES_.
served,like its predecessor, Quoz, to answer all ques-
.tions. In the course of time the latter word alone
became the favourite, and was uttered with a peculiar
drawl upon the first syllable, and a sharp turn upon
the last. Ifa lively servant girl was importuned for
a kiss by a fellow she did not care about, she cocked
her little nose, and cried uwalker!" If a dustman
asked his friend for the loan of a shilling, and his
friend was either unable or unwilling to aceommo-
.date him, the probable answer be would receive
was "Walker!" If a drunken man was reeling
along the streets, and a boy pulled his coat-tails, or
a man knocked his hat over his eyes to make fun of
him, the joke was always accompanied by the same
exclamation. This lasted for two or three months,
and 11
Walker!'' walked off the stage, never more
to be revived for the entertainment of that or any
future generation.
The next phrase was a most preposterous one.
Who invented it, bow it arose, or where it was first
heard, are alike unknown. Nothing about it is
certain, but that for months it was the slang par e.l'-
cellence of the Londoners, and afforded them a vast
gratification. n There he goes with his eye out/" or
u There she goes with her eye out!'' as the sex of the
party alluded to might be, was in the mouth of
everybody who knew the town. The sober part
of the community were as much puzzled by this
unaccountable saying as the vulg31 were delighted
with it. The wise thought it very foolish, but the
POPULAR FOLLIES OF GREAT CITIES. S29
many thought it very funny, and the idle amused
themselves by chalking it upon walls, or scribbling
it upon monuments. But, u all that's bright must
fade," even in slang. The people grew tired of their
hobby, and 1
' There l1e goe8 with his eye out !" was
beard no more in its accustomed haunts.
Another very odd phrase came into repute in a
brief space afterwards, in the form of the imperti-
nent and not universally apposite query, uHas your
mother sold her mangle f " But its popularity was
not of that boisterous and cordial kind which en-
sures a long continuance of favour. What tended
to impede its progress was, that it could not be
well applied to the older portions of society. It
consequently ran but a brief career, and then sank
into oblivion. Its successor enjoyed a more ex-
tended fame, and laid its foundations so deep, that
years and changing fashions have not sufficed to
eradicate it. This phrase was u Flare up!'' and
it is, even now, a colloquialism in common use.
It took its rise in the time of the Reform riots,
when Bristol was nearly half burned by the in-
furiated populace. The flames were said to have
flared up in the devoted city. Whether there was
anything peculiarly captivating in the sound, ot
in the idea of these words, is bard to say; but
whatever was the reason, it tickled the mob-fancy
mightily, and drove all other slang out of the field
before it. Nothing was to be heard all over Lon-
don but "flare up!" It answered all questions,
SSO POPULAR FOLLIES OF GREAT CITIES.
settled all disputes, was applied to all persons, all
things, and all circumstances, and became suddenly
the ·most comprehensive phrase in the English lan-
guage. The man who had overstepped the bounds
ofdecorum in his speech was &aid to haveflared up;
he who had paid visits too repeated to the gin-shop,
and got damaged in consequence, had flared up.
To put one's-self into a passion ; to stroll out on a
nocturnal frolic, and alarm a neighbourhood, or to
create a disturbance in any shape, was to flare up.
A lovers' quarrel was a flare up ; so was a boxing-
match between two blackguards in the streets, and
the preachers of sedition and reyolution recom-
mended the English nation to flare up, like the
French. So great a favourite was the word, that
people loved to repeat it for its very sound. They
delighted apparently in hearing their own organs
articulate it ; and labouring men, when none who
could respond to the call were within hearing,
would often startle the aristocratic echoes of the
West by the well-known slang phrase of the East.
Even in the dead hours of the night, the ears of
those who watched late, or who could not sleep,
were saluted with the same sound. The drunkard
reeling home showed that be was still a man and a
citizen, by calling "flare up" in the pauses of hia
hiccough. Drink had deprived him of the power
of arranging all other ideas ; his intellect was sunk
to the level of the brute's; but he clung to hu-
manity by the one last link of the popular cry.
POPULAR FOLLIES OF GREAT CITIES. 331
While he could vociferate that sound, he bad
rights as an Englishman, and would not sleep in a
gutter, like a dog! Onwards he went, disturbing
quiet streets and comfortable people by his whoop,
till exhausted nature could support him no more,
and he rolled powerless into the road. When, in
due time afterwards, the policeman stumbled upon
him as be lay, that guardian of the peace turnt;ld
the full light of his lantern on his face, and ex-
claimed, u Here's a poor devil who 's been flaring
up !" Then came the stretcher, on which the victim
of deep potations was carried to the watcbhouse,
and pitched into a dirty cell, among a score of
wretches about as far gone as himself, who saluted
their new comrade by a loud, long shout ofjlare up!
So universal was this phrase, and so enduring
seemed its popularity, th.at a speculator, who knew
not the evanescence of slang, established a weekly
newspaper under its name. But he was like the
man who built his house upon the sand ; his foun.
dation gave way under him, and the phrase and the
newspaper were washed into the mighty sea of the
things that were. The people grew at last weary
of the monotony, and "flare up" became vulgar
even among them. Gradually it was left to little
boys who did not know the world, and in process
of time sank altogether into neglect. It is now
heard no more as a piece of popular slang ; but the
words are still used·to signify any sudden outburst
either of fire, disturbance, or ill-nature.
832 POPULAR FOLLIES OF GREAT CITIES.
The next phrase that enjoyed the favour of the
million was less concise, and seems to have been
originally aimed against precocious youths who
gave themselves the airs of manhood before their
time. " Doea your mother know you're out ?'' was
the provoking query addressed to young men of
more than reasonable swagger., who smoked cigars
in the streets, and wore false whiskers to look irre-
sistible. We nave seen many a conceited fellow
who could not suffer a woman to pass him without
staring her out of countenance, reduced at once
into his natural insignificance by the mere utter-
ance of this phr11se. Apprentice lads and shopmen
in their Sunday clothes held the words in ab-
horrence, aud looked fierce when they were applied
to them. Altogether the phrase had a very salu-
tary effect, and in a thousand instances showed
young Vanity, that it was not half so pretty and
engaging as it thought itself. What rendered it
so provoking was the doubt it implied as to the
capability of self.guidance possessed by the indi-
vidual to whom it was addressed. "Does your
mother know you're out ?'' was a query of mock
concern and solicitude, implying regret and concern
that one so young and inexperienced in the ways of
a great city should be allowed to wander abroad
without the guidance of a parent. Hence the great
wrath of those who verged on manhood, but had
not reached it, whenever they were made the sub-
ject of it. Even older beads did not like it; and
POPULAR FOLI.TES OF GREAT CITIES. 888
the·heir of a ducal bouse, and inheritor of a war-
rior's name, to whom they were applied by a
cabriolet driver, who was ignorant of his rank, was
so indignant at the affront, that he summoned the
offender before the magisterial bench. The fellow
had wished to impose upon his Lordship by asking
double the fare he was entitled to, and when his
Lordship resisted the demand, he was insultingly
asked 11
if his mother knew he was out 1" All the
drivers on the stand joined in the query, and his
Lordship was fain to escape their laughter by walk-
ing away with as much baste as his dignity would
allow. The man pleaded ignorance that his cus-
tomer was a Lord, but offended justice fined him
for his mistake.
When this phrase had numbered its appointed
days, it 'died away, like its predecessors, and 11
Who
are you?" reigned in its stead. This new favourite,
like a mushroom, seems to have sprung up in a
night, or, like a frog in Cheapside, to have come
down in a sudden shower. One day it was unheard,
unknown, uninvented; the next it pervaded Lon-
don; every alley resounded with it; every highway
was musical with it,
" And street to street, and lane to lane tlung back
The one unvarying cry."
The phrase was uttered quickly, and with a sharp
sound upon the f\rst and last words, leaving the
middle one little more than an aspiration. Like aU
38-t POPULAR FOLLIES OF GREAT CITI.ES.
its compeers which had been extensively popular,
it was applicable to almost every variety of.circum-
stance. The lovers of a plain answer to a plain
question did not like it at all. Insolence made use
of it to give offence; ignorance, to avoid exposing
itself; and waggery,_to create laughter. Every new
comer into an alehouse tap-room was asked uncere.
moniously, u Who are you,.. and if he looked fool.
ish, scratched his head, and did not kriow what to
reply, shouts of boisterous merriment resounded on
every side. An authoritative disputant was not un-
frequentJy put down, and presumption ofevery kind
checked by the same query. When its popularity
was at its height, a gentleman, feeling the hand of
a thief in his pocket, turned suddenly round, and
caught him in the act, exclaiming, "Who are you?"
The mob which gathered round applauded to the
very echo, and thought it the most capital joke they
had ever beard-the very acme of wit-the very
essence of humour. · Another circumstance, of a
similar kind, gave an additional fillip to the phrase,
and infused new life and vigour into it, just as it
was dying away. The scene occurred in the chief
criminal court of the kingdom. A prisoner stood at
the bar ; the oft'~nce with which he had been charged
was clearly proved against him ; his counsel had
been heard, not in his defence, but in extenuation,
insisting upon his previous good life and ~haracter,
as reasons for,the lenity of the court. "And where
are your witnesses ?., inquired the learned judge
POPULAR. FOLLIES OF GREAT CITIES. 885
who presided. u Please you, my Lord, I knows tbe
prisoner at the bar, and a more honester feller never
breathed," said a rough voice in the gallery. The
officers ofthe court looked aghast, and the strangers
tittered with ill-suppressed laughter. u Who are
you?" said the Judge, looking suddenly up, but with
imperturbable gravity. The court was convulsed;
the titter broke out into a laugh, and it was several
minutes before silence and decorum could be re..
stored. When the Ushers recovered their self-pos-
session,. they made diligent search for the profane
transgressor ; .but he was not to be found. No-
body knew him ; nobody bad ·seen him. After a
while the business of the court again proceeded.
The next prisoner brought up for trial augured
fav-ourably ofhis prospects when he learned that the
solemn lips of the representative of justice had
uttered the popular phrase as if he felt and appre-
ciated it. ·There was no fear that such a judge
would use undue severity ; his heart was with the
people ; he understood their language and their
manners, and would make allowances for the temp-
tations which drove them into crime. So thought
many of the prisoners, if we may infer it from the
fact, that the learned judge suddenly acquired an
immense increase of popularity. The praise of his
wit was in every mouth, and u Who are youf" re-
newed its lease, and remained in possession of pub-
lic favour for another term in consequence.
But it must not be supposed that there wer~ no
S86 POPULAR FOLLfES O'F GREAT CITIES.
interregni between the dominion of one slang phrase
and another. They did not arise in one long line
of unbroken succession, but shared with song the
possession of popular favour. Thus, when the peo-
ple were in the mood for music, slang advanct>d its
claims to no purpose, and, when they were inclined
for slang, the sweet voice of music wooed them in
vain. About twenty years ago London resounded
with one chorus, with the love of which everybody
seemed to be smitten. Girls and boys, young men
and old, maidens and wives, and widows, were all
alike musical. Tbere was an absolute mania for
singing, and the worst of it was, that, like good
Father Philip, in the romance of" The Monastery,"
they seemed utterly unable to change their tune.
" Cherry ripe !" " Cherry ripe !,. was the universal
cry of a11 the idle in the town. Every unmelodious
voice gave utterance to it; every crazy fiddle, every
cracked flute, every wheezy pipe, every street orga'n
was beard in the same strain, until studious and
quiet men stopped their ears in desperation, or
fled miles away into the fields or woodlands, to be
at peace. This plague lasted for a twelvemonth,
until the very name ofcherries became an abomina-
tion in the land. At last the excitement wore
itself away, and· the tide of favour set in a new
direction. Whether it was another song or a slang
phrase, is difficult to detennine at this distance of
time ; but certain it is, that very shortly afterwards,
people went mad upon a dramatic subject, aud
POPULAR 1-'0LLIES IN GREAT CITIES. 8~7
nothing was to be heard of but .. Tom and Jerry."
Verbal wit had amused the multitude long enough,
and they became more practical in their recreation.
Every youth on the town was seized with the fierce
desire of distinguishing himself, by knocking down
the .. chm·lies," being locked up all night in a watch-
house, or kicking up a row among loose women
and blackguard men in the low dens of St. Giles's.
Imitative boys vied with their elders in similar ex-
ploits, until this unworthy passion, for such it was,
had lasted, like other follies, its appointed time, and
the town became merry after another fashion. 1t
was next thought the height of vulgar wit to answer
all questions by placing the point of the thumb
upon the tip of the nose, and twirling the fingers in
the air. If one man wished to insult or annoy
another, be had,only to make use of this cabalistic
sign in his face, and his object was accomplished.
At every street corner where a group was assem-
bled, the spectator who was curious enough to ob-
serve their movements, would be sure to see the
fingers of some of them at their noses, either as a
mark of incredulity, surprise, refusal, or mockery,
before be had watched two minutes. There is some
remnant of this absurd custom to be seen to this
day; but it is thougl1t low, even among the vulgar.
About six years ago, London became again most
preposterously musical. The vo.r populi wore itself
hoarse by singing the praises of " The Sea, t}le
Sea!" If a stranger (and a philosopher) had walked
VOL. 1. z
888 POPULAR FOLLIES IN GREAT CITIES.
through London, and listened to the universal
chorus, be might have constructed a very pretty
theory upon the love of the English for the sea-
service, and our acknowledged superiority over all
other nations upon that element. " No wonder,"
he might have said, u that this people is invincible
upon the ocean. The love of it mixes with their
daily thoughts : they celebrate it even in the mar-
ket-place : their street-minstrels excite· charity by
it; and high and low, young and old, male and
female, chant Io paans in its praise. Love is not
honoured in the national songs of this warlike race
- Bacchus is no god to them ; they are men of
sterner mould, and think only of 'the Sea, the
Sea I• and the means of conquering upon it."
Such would, doubtless, have been his impression
if he had taken the evidence only of his ears. Alas!
in those days for the refined ears that were mu-
sical ! great was their torture when discord, with
its thousand diversities of tone, struck up this
appalling anthem- there was no escape from it.
The migratory minstrels of Savoy caught the strain,
and pealed it down the long vistas of quiet streets,
tilf their innermost and snuggest apartments re-
echoed with the sound. Men were obliged to en-
dure this crying evil for full six months, wearied
to desperation, and made aea-sick on the dry
land.
,Several other songs sprang up in due succession
afterwards, .but none of them, with the exception
POPULAR FOLLIES IN GREAT CITIES, S89
of one, entitled "All round my Hat,'' enjoyed any
extraordinary share of favour, until an American
actor introduced a vile song ca1led u Jim Crow."
The singer sang his verses in appropriate costume,
with grotesque gesticulations, and a sudden whirl
of his body at the close of each verse. It took the
taste of the town immediately, and for months the
ears of orderly people were stunned by the sense~
less chorus-
" Tum about and wheel about,
And do just so-
Tum about and wheel about,
And jump, Jim Crow I''
Street-minstrels blackened their faces in order to
give proper effect to the verses ; and fatherless
urchins, who had to choose between thieving and
singing for their livelihood, took the latter course,
as likely to be the more profitable, as long as
the public taste remained in that direction. The
uncouth dance, its accompaniment, might be seen
in its full perfection on market nights in any
great thoroughfare ; and the words of the song
might be heard, piercing above all the din and
buzz of the ever-moving multitude. He, the calm
observer, who during the hey-day popularity of
this doggrel,
" Sate beside the public way,
Thiele strewn with swnmer duat, and saw the stream
Of people there waa hunying to and fro~
Numerous as gnats upon the evening gleam,"
z 2
340 POPULAR ··oLLIES IN GREAT CITIES.
might h~ve exclaimed with Shelley, whose fine lines
we quote, that
" The million, with fierce song and maniac dance,
Did rage around."
The philosophic theorist we have already sup-
posed soliloquising upon the English character,
and forming his opinion of it from their exceed-
ing love for a sea-song, might, if he had again
dropped suddenly into London, have formed an-
other 'Very plausible theory to account for our un-
remitting efforts for the abolition of the Slave
Trade. u Benevolent people!" he might have said,
"how unbounded are your sympathies! Your un.
happy br.
ethren of Africa, differing from you only
in the colour of their skins, are so dear to you,
and you begrudge so little the twenty millions
you have paid on their behalf, that you love to
have a memento of them continually in your sight.
Jim Crow is the representative of that injured
race, and as such is the idol of your populace!
See how they all sing his praises !-bow they imi-
tate his peculiarities!-bow they repeat his name
in their moments of leisure and relaxation ! They
even carve images of him to adorn their hearths,
that his cause and his sufferings may never be
forgotten ! Oh, philanthropic England !- oh, van-
guard of civilization!"
Such are a few of the peculiarities of the London
mu1titude, when no riot, no execution, no murder,
POPULAR FOLLIES IN GREAT CITIES. 841
no balloon, disturbs the even current of their
thoughts. These are the whimseys of the mass-
the harmless follies by which they unconsciously
endeavour to lighten the load of care which presses
upon their existence. The wise man. even though
he smile at them, will not altogether withhold his
sympathy, and will say, '' Let them enjoy their
slang phrases and their choruses if they will ; and
if they cannot be happy, at least let them be
merry/• · To the Englishman, as well as to the
Frenchman of whom Beranger sings, there may
be some comfort in so small a thing as a song.
and we may own with him that
"Au peuple attriate
Ce qui rendra 1a gaite,
C'eat la GAUDBIOLB I
o guel
C'eat la oAUDlUO.Lll I"
(l 'l
I
THE 0. P. MANIA.
And the.e thingt bred a great combustion in the town.
Wagltaffe'l ..4pparition Q/ Motller Hag[fo.
THE acrimonious warfare carried on for a length
of time by the playgoers of London against the
proprietors of Covent~Garden Theatre, is one of
the most singular instances upon record of the
small folly which will sometimes pervade a mul-
titude of intelligent men. Carried .on at first
from mere obstinacy by a few, and afterwards £01:
mingled obstinacy and frolic by a greater number,
it increased at last to such a height, that the sober
dwellers in the provinces held up their bands
in astonishment, and wondered that the people of
London should be such fools. As much firmness
and perseverance displayed in a better cause, might
have achieved important triumphs ; and we cannot
but feel regret, in recording this matter, that so
much good and wholesome energy should have
been thrown away on so unworthy an object. But
we will begin with the beginning, and trace the
0. P. mania from its source.
On the night of the 20th of September, 1808,
the old tbeatre of Covent-Garden was totally de-
I' ' I
THE 0. P. MANIA. 843
stroyed by fire. Preparations were immediately
made for the erection of a more splendid edifice,
and the managers, Harris and the celebrated John
Philip Kemble, announced that the new theatre
should be without a rival in Europe. In less than
three months, the rubbish of the old building was
cleared away, and the foundation-stone of the new
one laid with all due ceremony by the Duke of
Sussex. With so much celerity were the works
carried on that, in nine months more, the edifice
was completed, both without and within. The
opening night was announced for the 18th of Sep-
tember 1809, within two days of a twelvemonth
since the destruction of the original building.
But the undertaking bad proved more expen~
sive than the Committee anticipated. To·render
the pit entrance more commodious, it had been
deemed advisable to remove a low public-house
that stood in the way. This turned out a mat-
ter of no little difficulty, for the proprietor was
a man well skilled in driving a hard bargain. The
more eager the Committee showed themselves to
come to terms with him for his miserable pot-
house, the more grasping he became in his de-
mands for compensation. They were ultimately
obliged to pay him an exorbitant sum. Added to
this, the interior decorations were on the most
costly scale ; and Mrs. Siddons, and other members
of the Kemble family, together with the celebrated
Italian singer, Madame Catalani, had been engaged
·THE 0. P. MANIA.
at very high salaries. As the night of opening
drew near, the Committee found that they had
gone ·a little beyond their means ; and they issued
a notice, stating that, in consequence of the great
expense they had been at in building the theatre,
and the large salaries they had agreed to pay, to
secure the services of the most eminent actors,
they were under the necessity of fixing the prices
of admission at seven shillings to the boxes and
four shillings to the pit, instead of six shillings and
three and sixpence, as heretofore. ·
· This announcement created the greatest dissa-
tisfaction. The boxes might have borne the op-
pression, but the dignity of the pit was wounded.
A war-cry was raised immediately. For some
weeks previous to the opening, a continual clatter
was kept up in clubs and coffee..rooms, against what
was considered a most unconstitutional aggression
on the rights of play-going man. The newspapers
assiduously kept up the excitement, and repre-
sented, day after day, to the managers the im-
policy of the proposed advance. The bitter poli-
tics of the time were disregarded, and Kemble and
Covent-Garden became as great sources of interest
as Napoleon and France. Public attention was
the more fixed upon the proceedings at Covent-
Garden, since it was the only patent theatre then
i~ existence, Drury-Lane theatre having also been
destroyed by fire in the month of February pre-
vious. But great as was the indignation of the
'f.HE O. P. MANIA. 845
lovers of the drama at that time, no one could
have anticipated the extraordinary lengths to which
opposition would be carried.
First Night, September 20th. -The perform-
ances announced were the tragedy of " Macbeth"
and the afterpiece of " The Quaker." The house
was excessively crowded (the pit especially) with
persons who had gone for no other purpose than to
make a disturbance. They soon discovered another
grievance to add to the list. The whole of the
lower, and three-fourths of the upper tier of boxes,
were Jet out for the season ; so that those who had
paid at the door for a seat in the boxes, were obliged
to mount to a level with the gallery. Here they
were stowed into boxes which, from their size and
shape, received the contemptuous, and not inap-.
propriiite designation of pigeon-boles. This was
considered in _the light of a new aggression upon
established rights ; and long before the curtain
drew up, the managers migllt have heard in their
green-room the indignant shouts of "Down with
the pigeon-holes!"-" Old prices for ever!" Amid
this din the curtain rose, and Mr. Kemble stood
forward to deliver a poetical address in honour
of the occasion. The riot now began in earnest ;
not a word of the address was audible, from the
stamping .and groaning of the people in the pit.
This continued, almostwithout intermission, through
the five acts of the tragedy. Now and then, the
sublime acting of Mrs. Siddons, as "the awful wo-
846 THE O. P. MANIA.
man," bushed the noisy multitude into silence, in
spite of themselves: ·but it was only for a moment;
the recollection of their fancied wrongs made them
ashamed of their admiration, and they shouted and
hooted again more vigorously than before. The
comedy of Munden in the afterpiece met with no
better reception; not a word was listened to, and
the curtain fell amid still increasing uproar and
shouts of "Old prices t,. Some magistrates, who
happened to be present, zealously came to the
rescue, and appeared on the stage with copies of
the Riot 4ct. This ill-judged proceeding made
the matter worse. The men of .the pit were ex-
asperated by the indignity, and strained their lungs
to express how deeply they felt it. Thus remained
the war till long after midnight, when the bellige-
rents withdrew from sheer exhaustion.
Second Night.- The crowd was not so great;
all those who had gone on the previous evening
to listen to the performances, now stayed away,
and the rioters had it nearly all to themselves.
With the latter, " the play was not the thing/ ' and
Macheath and Polly sang in" The Beggar's Opera"
in vain. The actors and the public appeared to
have changed sides-the audience acted, and the
actors listened. A new feature of this night's pro.-
ceedings was the introduction of placards. Several
were displayed from the pit and boxes, inscribed
in large letters with the words, " Old prices."
With a view of striking terror, the constables }Vho
THE 0. P. MANIA. 847
had been plentifully introduced into the house,
attaclted the placard-bearers, and succeeded, after
several severe battles, in dragging offa few ofthem
to the neighbouring watch-house, in Bow Street.
Confusion now became worse and worse confound-
ed. The pitites screamed themselves hoarse; while,
to increase the uproar, some mischievous frequent-
ers of the upper regions squeaked through dozens
of cat..calls, till the combined noise was enough
to blister every tympanum in the house.
Thi1·d /fight.-The appearance of several gentle-
men in the morning at the bar of the Bow Street
police office, to answer for their riotous conduct,
had been indignantly commented upon during the
day. All augured ill for the quiet of the night.
The performances announced were " Richard the
Third" and u The Poor Soldier..•• but the popu-
larity of the tragedy could not obtain it a hearing.
The pitites seemed to be drawn into closer union
by the attacks made upon them, and to act more
in concert than on the previous nights. T~ pla-
cards were, also, more numerous; not only the pit,
but the boxes and galleries exhibited them. Among
the most conspicuous, was one inscribed, " John
Bull against John Kemble. -Who11 win 1" An-
other bore u King George for ever l but no King
Kemble." A third w.as levelled against Madame
Catalani, whose large salary was supposed to be
one of the causes of the increased prices, and was
inscribed " No foreigners to tax us - we're taxed
348 THE o. P. MANIA.
enough already." This last was a double-barrel-
led one, expressing both dramatic and political
discontent, ·and was received with loud cheers by
the pitites.
The tragedy and afterpiece were concluded full
two hours before their regular time ; and the cries
for Mr. Kemble became so loud, that the ma-
nager thought proper to obey the summons. Amid
all these scenes of uproar he preserved his equa-
nimity, and was never once betrayed into any ex-
pression of petulance or anger. With some diffi-
culty he obtained a bearing, He entered into a
detail of the affairs of the theatre, assuring the
audience at the same time of the solicitude of the
proprietors to accommodate themselves to the pub-
lic wish. This was received with some applause,
as it was thought at first to manifest a willingness
to come back to the old prices, and the pit eagerly
waited for the next sentence, that was to confirm
their hopes. That sentence was never uttered, for
Mr. Kemble, folding his arms majestically, added,
in his deep tragic voice, "Ladies and Gentlemen,
1 wait here to know what you want!" Immediately
the uproar was renewed, and became so tremen-
dous and so deafening, that the manager, seeing
the uselessness of further parley, made his how and
retired.
A gentleman then rose in the boxes and re-
quested a hearing. He obtained it ·without diffi-
culty. He began by inveighing in severe terms
THE 0. p, MANIA. 949
against the pretended ignorance of Mr. Kemble, in
asking-them so offensively what they wanted, and
concluded by exhorting the people never to cease
their opposition until they brought down the prices
to their old level. The speaker, whose name was
und~rstood to be Leigh, then requested a cheer for
the actors, to show that no disrespect was intended
them. The cheer was given immediately.
A barrister of the name of Smythe then rose to
crave another hearing for Mr. Kemble. The mana-
ger stood forth again, calm, unmoved, and severe.
H Ladies and gentlemen," said he, "I wait here to
know your wishes." Mr. Leigh, who took upon
himself, "for that night only,'' the character of
popular leader, said, the only reply he could give
was one in three words, "the old prices." Hereat
the shouts of applause again rose, till the building
rang. Still serene amid the storm, the m~nager
endeavoured to enter into explanations. The men
of the pit would hear nothing of the sort. They
wanted entire and absolute acquiescence. Less
would not satisfy them; and, as Mr. Kemble only
wished to explain, they would not hear a word. He
finally withdrew amid a noise to which Babel must
have been comparatively silent.
Fourth night.-The rioters were more obstinate
than ever. The noises were 'increased by the ad-·
dition of whistles, bugle-horns., and watchmen's
rattles, sniffling, snorting, and clattering from all
parts of the house. Human lungs were taxed
n '1
I
850 THE 0. P. MANIA.
to the uttermost, and the stamping on the iloor
raised such a dust as to render all objects but
dimly visible. In placards, too, there was greater
variety. The loose wits of the town bad all day
been straining their ingenuity to invent new ones.
Among them were, " Come forth, 0 Kemble! come
forth and tremble!" n Foolish John Kemble, we'll
make you tremble!" and "No cats! no Catalani!
English actors for ever!"
Those who wish to oppose a mob successfully,
should never lose their temper. It is a proof of
weakness which masses of people at once perceive,
and never fail to take advantage of. Thus, when
the managers unwisely resolved to fight the mob
with their own weapons, it only increased the op-
position it was intended to allay. A dozen pugil-
ists, commanded by a notorious boxer of the day,
were introduced into the pit# to use the argumentum
ad hominem to the rioters. Continual scufBes en-
sued: but the invincible resolution of the play-
goers would not allow them to quail ; it rather
aroused them to renewed opposition, and a deter-
mination never to submit or yield. It also strength-
ened their cause, by affording them further ground
of complaint against the managers.
The performance's announced on the- bills were
the opera of " Love iri a Village/' and ~· Who
wins?" but the bills bad it all to tltemselves, f<U"
neither actors nor public we'te much burthened
with them. The latter, indeed, afforded some sport.
TllE 0. P. MANIA. 851
The title was too apt to the occasion to escape
notice, and shouts of" Who wins? who wins?" dis-
placed for a time the accustomed cry of old prices.
After the fall of the curtain, Mr. Leigh, with
another gentleman, again spoke, complaining bit-
terly of the introduction of the prize-fighters, and
exhorting the public never to give in. Mr. Kemble
was again called forward ; but when he came, the
full tide of di~cord ran so strongly against him
that, being totally unable to stem it, he withdrew.
Each man seemed to shout as if he had been a
Stentor ; and when his lungs were wearied, took
to his feet and stamped, till all the black coats in
his vicinity became grey with dust. At last the
audience were tired out, and the theatre was closed
before eleven o'clock.
Fifth night.- The play was Coleman's amusing
comedy of" John Bull." There was no diminution
of the uproar. Every note on the diapason of dis-
cord was run through. The prize-fighters, or hit-
ilea as they were called, mustered in considerable
numbers, and the battles between them and the
pitites were fierce and many. It was now, for the
first time, that the letters 0 . P. came into general
use as an .abbreviation of the accustomed watch-
word of old prices. Several placards were thus in-
scribed ; and, as brevity is so desirable in shouting,
the mob adopted the emendation. As usual, the
manager was called for. After some delay he came
forward, and was listened to with considerable
852 THE 0. P. MANIA..
patience. He repeated, in respectful terms, the
great loss that would be occasioned to the pro-
prietors by a return to the old prices, and offered
to submit a statement of their accounts to the emi-
nent lawyers, Sir Vicary Gibbs and Sir Thomas
Plumer; the eminent merchants, Sir Francis Bar-
ing and Mr. Angerstein; and Mr. Whitmore, the
Governor of the Bank of England. _By their de-
cision as to the possibility of carrying on the the-
atre at the old prices, he would consent to be
governed, and he hoped the public would do the
same. This reasonable proposition was scouted
immediately. Not even the high and reputable
names he had mentioned were thought to afford
any guarantee for impartiality. The pitites were
too wrong-headed to abate one iota of their pre-
tensions; and they had been too much insulted by
the prize-fighters in the manager's pay, to show any
consideration for him, or agree to any terms he
might propose. They wanted full acquiescence,
and nothing less. Thus the conference broke o~
and the manager retired amid a storm of hisses.
An Irish gentleman, named O'Reilly, then stood
up in one of the boxes. With true Irish gallantry,
he came to the rescue of an ill-used lady. He said
he was disgusted at tl1e attacks made upon Madame
Catalani, the finest singer io the world, and a lady
inestimable in private life. It was unjust, un-
manly, and un-Englisb to make the innocent suffer
for the guilty ; and he hoped this blot would be no
THE O. P. MANIA. 853
longer allowed to stain a fair cause. As to the
quarrel with the manager, he recommended them
to persevere. They were not only wronged by his
increased prices, but insulted by his boxers, and he
hoped, that before they had done with him, they
would teach him a lesson he would not soon forget.
The gallant Hibernian soon became a favourite,
and sat down amid loud cheers.
Si.rth night.-No signs of a cessation of hostili-
ties on tbe one side, or ofa return to the old prices
on the other. The playgoers seemed to grow more
united as the managers grew more obstinate. The
actors had by far the best time of it ; for they were
spared nearly all the labour of their parts, and
merely strutted on the stage to see how matters
went on," and then strutted oft' again. Notwith-
standing the remonstrance of Mr. O'Reilly on the
previous night, numerous placards reflecting upon
Madame Catalani were exhibited. One was m-
scribed with the following doggrel :-
"Seventeen thouaand a-year goes pat,
To Kemble, his sister, and Madame Cat."
On another was displayed, in large letters, uNo
compromise, old prices, and native talent 1" Some
of these were stuck against the front of (he boxes,
and others were hoisted from the pit on long poles.
The following specimens will suffice to show the
spirit ofthem; wit they had none, or humour either,
VOL. f. ~A
"nl1~ 0. P. MANIA.
although when they were successively exhibited,
they elicited roan of laughter:-
''John Kemble alone is the cause of this riot;
When be lowers his prices, John Bull will be quiet."
"Jobn Kemble be damn'd,
We will not be cnunm'd...
cc Squire Kemble
BegiDll to tremble."
The curtain fell as early as nine o'clock, when
there being loud calls for Mr. Kemble, he stood
forward. He announced that Madame Catalani,
against whom so nnjustifiable a prejudice had been
excited, had thrown up her engagement rather than
stand in the way of any accommodation ofexisting
differences. This announcement was received with
great applause. Mr. Kemble then went on to vin-
dicate himself and co-proprietors from the charge
of despising public opinion. No assertion, he as-
sured them, could be more unjust. They were
sigcerely anxious to bring these unhappy differences
to a close, and he thought he had acted in the most
fair and ·reasonable manner in offering to submit
the accounts to an impartial committee, whose de-
cision, and the grounds for it, should be fully pro-
mulgated. This speech was received with cheering,
but interrupted at the close by some individuals,
who objected to any committee of the manager's
nomination. This led to a renewal of the uproar,
and it was some time before silence could be ob-
THE 0 . P. MANIA. 955
tained. When, at last, he was able to make himself
heard, he gave notice, that until the decision of the
committee bad been drawn up, the theatre should
remain closed. Immediately every person in the
pit stood up, and a long shout of triumph re-
sounded through the house, which was heard at the
extremity of Bow Street. As if this result had
been anticipated, a placard was at. the same mo-
ment hoisted, inscribed, " Here lies the body of
NRW PRICE, an ugly brat and base born, who ex-
pired on the 23rd of September 1809, aged six
days.-Requiesc:at in pace!"
Mr. Kemble then retired, and the pitites flung up
their hats in the air, or sprang over the benches,
shouting and baUooing in the exuberance of their
joy; and thus ended the first act of this popular
farce.
'fhe committee ultimately chosen differed from
that first named, Alderman Sir Charles Price, Bart.
and Mr. Silvester, the Recorder of London, being
substituted for Sir Francis Baring and Sir Vicary
Gibbs. In a few days they bad examined the mul-
titudinous documents of the theatre, and agreed to
a report which was published in all the news-
papers, and otherwise distributed. They stated the
average profits of the six preceding years at 6i per
cent, being only liper cent. beyond the legal in-
terest of money, to recompense the proprietors for
all their care and enterprise. Under the new prices
they would receive 8i per cent. profit; but if they
2 ~ 2
856 TOE 0. P. MANIA.
returned to the old prices, they would sufFer a loss
of fifteen shillings per cent. upon their capital.
Under these circumstances, they could do no other
than recommend the proprietors to continue the
new prices.
This report gave no satisfaction. It certainly
convinced the reasonable, but they, unfortunately,
were in a minority of one to ten. The managers,
disregarding the outcry that it excited, advertised
the recommencement of the performances for Wed-
nesday the 4th of October following. They en-
deavoured to pack the bouse with their friends, but
the sturdy 0 . P. men were on the alert, and con·
gregated in the pit in great numbers. The play
was " The Beggar's Opera/' but, as on former oc-
casions, it was wholly inaudible. The noises were
aystematica1ly arranged, and the actors, seeing bow
useless it was to struggle against the popular feel-
ing, hurried over their parts as quickly a.s they
could, and the curtain fell shortly after nine o'clock.
Once more the manager essayed the difficult task of
convincing madness by appealing to reason. As
soon as the din of the rattles and post-horns would
permit him to speak, he said, he would throw him-
self on the fairness of the most enlightened metro-
polis in the world. He was sure, however strongly
they might feel upon the subject, they would not be
accessory to the ruin of the theatre, by insisting
upon a return to the former prices. Notwithstand.
ing the little sop he had thrown out to feed the
THE O. P. MANIA. 867
vanity of this roaring Cerberus, the only answer he
received was a renewal of the noise, intermingled
with shouts of ac Hoax l hoax I imposition f" Mr.
O'Reilly, the gallant friend of Madame Catalani,
afterwards addressed the pit, and said no reliance
could be placed on the report of the committee.
The profits of the theatre were evidently great :
they had saved the heavy salary of Madame Cata.-
lani ; and by shutting out the public from all the
boxes but the pigeon-holes, they made large sums.
The first and second tiers were let at high rents to
notorious courtesans, several of whom he then saw
in the house; and it was clear that the manage.-s
preferred a large revenue from this impure source
to the reasonable profits they would receive from
respectable people. Loud cheers greeted this speech;
every eye was turned towards the boxes, and the
few ladies in them immediately withdrew. At the
same moment, some inveterate pitite hoisted a large
placard, on which was inscribed,
'' We lade of the pit
Will never submit."
Several others were introduced. One of them
was a caricature likeness of Mr. Kemble, asking,
11
What do you want?" with a. pitite replying,
1
' The old prices, and no pigeon-holes!'' Others
merely bore the drawing of a large keg, in allusion.
to a notorious house in the neighbourhood~ the
denizens of which were said to be great frequentera
158 THE 0. P. MANIA.
of the private boxes. These appeared to give the
managers more annoyance than all the rest, and
the prize.fighters made vigorous attacks upon the
holders of them. Several persons were, on this
night, and indeed nearly every night, taken into
custody, and locked up in the watcbbouse. On
their appearance the following morning, they were
generally held to b&:il in considerable sums to keep
the peace. This proceeding greatly augmented
the animosity of the pit.
It would be useless to detail the scenes of con-
fusion which followed night after night. FoT about
three weeks the war continued with unabated fury.
Its characteristics were nearly always the same.
Invention was racked to discover new noises, and
it was thought a happy idea when one fellow got
into the gallery with a dustman's bell, and rang it
furiously. Dogs were also brought into the boxes,
to add their sweet voices to the general uproar.
The animals seemed to join in it con amore, and one
night a large mastiffgrowled and barked so loudly,
as to draw down upon his exertions three cheers
from the gratified pitites.
So strong did the popular enthusiasm run in
favour of the row, that well-dressed ladies appeared
in the boxes with the letters 0. P. on their bonnets.
0. P. hats for the gentlemen were still morecommon,
and some were so zealous in the cause, as to sport
waistcoats with an 0 embroidered upon one flap
and a P on the other. 0. P. toothpicks were also in
THE Q. P. MANI~ 859
fashion; and gentlemen and ladies carried O.P. band-
kerchiefs, which they waved triumphantly whenever
the row was unusually deafening. The latter sug.-
gested the idea ofO. P. flagsj which were occasionally
unfurled from the gallery to the length of a dozen
feet. Sometimes the first part of the night's per-
formances were listened to with comparative pa·
tience, a majority of the manager's friends being in
possession of the house. But as soon as the half.
price commenced, the row began again in all its
pristine glory. At the fall of the curtain it soon
became customary to sing u God save the King,"
the whole of the 0. P.'s joining in loyal chorus.
Sometimes this was followed by " Rule Britan-
nia ;" and, on two or three occasions, by a pa.
rody of the national anthem, which excited great
laughter. A verse may not be uninteresting sa a
spectmen.
"0 Johnny Bull, be true,
Confound the prices new,
And make them fall!
Curse Kemble's politics,
Frustrate his knavish tricks,
On thee our hopes we fut,
T' upset them all ! "
This done, they scrambled over the benches, got
up sham fights in the pit, or danced the famous
0 . P. dance. The latter may as well be described
. here: ha1f a dozen, or a dozen fellows formed in
.a ring, and stamped alternately with the right and
860 THE O. P. MANIA.
left foot, calling out at regular intervals, 0. P.-
O. P. with a drawling and monotonous sound. This
uniformly lasted till the lights were put out, when
the rioters withdrew, generally in gangs of ten or
twenty, to defend themselves from sudden attacK&
on the part of the constables.
An idea seemed about this time to break in upon
them, that notwithstanding the annoyance they
caused the manager, they were aiding to fiB his cof-
fers. This was hinted at in some of the newspapers,
and the consequence was, that many .stayed away
to punish him, if possible, under the silent system.
But this did not last long. The Jove of mischief
was as great an incentive to many of them as
enmity to the new prices. Accidental circumstances
also contributed to disturb the temporary calm. At
the Westminster quarter-sessions, on the 27th of
October, bills of indictment were preferred against
forty-one persons for creating a disturbance and
interrupting the petformances o£ the theatre. The
grand jury ignored twenty-seven of the bills, left
two undecided, and found true bills against twelve.
The latter exercised their right of tra~erse till the
ensuing sessions. The preferment of these bil1s
had the effect of re-awakening the subsiding excite-
ment. Another circumstance about the same time
gave a still greater impetus to it, and furnished the
rioters with a chief, round whom they were eager
to rally. Mr. ClifFord, a barrister, appeared in tbe
pit on the night of the Slst of October, with the
THE 0. P• .MANIA. S6l
letters 0. P. on his hat. Being a man of some note,
he was pounced upon by the constables, and led off
to Bow Street police office, where Brandon, the
box·keeper, charged him with riotous and dis-
orderly conduct. This was exactly what Clifford
wanted. He told the presiding magistrate, a Mr.
Read, that he had purposely displayed the letters
on his hat, in order that the question of right might
be determined before a competent tribunal. He
denied that he had committed any offence, and
seemed to manifest so intimate an acquaintance
with the Jaw upon the subject, that the magistrate,
convinced by his reasoning, ordered his immediate
dismissal, and stated that he had been taken into
custody wit~out the slightest grounds. The result
was made known in the theatre a few minutes after-
wards, where Mr. Clifford, on his appearance vic-
torious, was received with reiterated huzzas. On
his leaving the house, he was greeted by a mob of
five or six hundred persons, who bad congregated
outside to do him honour as be passed. From that
night the riots may be said to have recommenced,
and u Clifford and 0. P." became the-ra11ying cry of
the party. The officious box-keeper became at the
same time the object of the popular dislike, and the
contempt with which the genius and fine qualities
of Mr. Kemble would not permit them to regard
him, was fastened upon his underling. So much
ill-feeling was directed towards the latter, that at
this time a return to the old prices, unaccompanied
TBE 0. P. MANIA•
.
by his dismissal, would not have made the ma.:.
nager·s peace with the pitites.
In the course of the few succeeding weeks, dur-
ing which the riots continued with undiminished
fury, 0. P. medals were struck, and worn in great
numbers in the theatre. A few of the ultra-zealoua
even wore them in the streets. A new fashion also
came into favour for bats, waistcoats, and hand-
kerchiefs, on which the mark, instead of the sepa-
rate letters 0 and P, was a large 0, with a small
P in the middle of it : thus,
0
The managers, seejng that Mr. Clifford was so
identified with the rioters, determined to make him
responsible. An action was accordingly brought
against him and other defendants in the Court
of King's Bench. On the 20th of November, the
Attorney-general moved, before Lord Ellenborough,
for a rule to show cause why a criminal informa-
tion should not be filed against Clifford for unlaw-
fully conspiring with certain others to intimidate
the proprietors of Covent-Garden Theatre, and
force them, to their loss and detriment, to lower
their prices of admission. The rule was granted,
and an early day fixed for the trial. In the mean
time, these proceedings kept up the acerbity of the
0. P.s, and every night at the fall of the curtain,
three groans were given for John Kemble and three
cheers for John Bull.
THE O. P. MANIA. 863
It was during this year that the national Jubilee
was celebrated, in honour of the fiftieth year of the
reign of George III. When the riots had reached
their fiftieth night, the 0. P.s also determined to
have a jubilee. All their previous efforts in the
way of roaring, great as they were, were this night
outdone, and would have continued long after 11
the
wee sboit hour," had not the managers wisely put
the extinguisher upon them and the lights about
eleven o'clock.
Pending the criminal prosecution against him-
self, Mr. Clifford brought an action for false im-
prisonment against Brandon. The cause was fixed
for trial in the Court of Common Pleas, on the 5th
of December, before Lord Chief-Justice Mansfield.
From an early hour in the morning all the avenues
leading to the court were thronged with an eager
multitude; all London was in anxiety for the re-
sult. So dense was the crowd, that counsel found
the greatest difficulty in making their way into
court. Mr. Sergeant Best was retained on the part
of the plaintiff, and Mr. Sergeant Shepherd for the
defence. The defendant put two pleas upon the
record; first, that he was not guilty, and secondly,
that he was justified. Sergeant Best, in stating the
plaintiff's case, blamed the managers for all the
disturbances that had taken place, and contended
tha~ his client, in affixing the letters 0 . P. to his
bat, was not guilty of any offence. Even if he had
joined in the noises, which he had not, his so doing
THE 0. P. MANIA.
would not subject him to the penalties for riot-
ing. Several witnesses were then called to prove
the capture of Mr. Clifford, the hearing of the case
before the magistrate at Bow Street, and his ulti-
mate dismissal. Sergeant Shepherd was heard at
great length on the other side, and contended that
his client was perfectly justified in taking into cus-
tody a man who was inciting others to commit a
breach of the peace.
The Lord Chief..Justice summed up, with an
evident bias in favour of the defendant. He said
an undue apprehension of t be rights of an audience
had got abroad. Even suvposing the object of the
rioters to be fair and legal, they were not autho-
rized to carry it by unfair means. In order to con-
stitute a riot, it was not necessary that personal
violence should be committed, and it seemed to
him that the defendant had not acted in au im-
proper manner in giving into custody a person
who, by the display of a symbol, was encouraging
others to commit a riot.
The jury retired to consider their verdict. The
erowd without and within the court awaited the
result in feTerish suspense. Half an hour elapsed,
"'·hen the jury returned with a •erdict for the
plaintiii'-Damages, five pounds. The satisfaction
of the spectators was evident upon their counte-
nances. that of the judge expressed the contrary
feeling. Turning to the foreman of the jury., his
Lordship asked upon which of the two points re-
THE O. P. MANIA. 365
ferred to them, namely, the broad question, whe-
ther a riot had been committed, and, if committed,
whether the plaintiff had participated in it, they
had found their verdict 1
The foreman stated, that they were all ofopinion
generally that the plaintiff had been illegally ar-
rested. This vague answer did not satisfy his Lord.
ship, and he repeated his question. He could not.
however, obtain a more satisfactory reply. Evi-
dently vexed at what he deemed the obtuseness or
partiality of the jury, be turned to the bar, and
said, that a spirit of a mischievous and destructive
nature was abroad, which, if not repressed, threat.
ened awful consequences. The country would be
lost, he said, and the government overturned, if
such a spirit were encouraged ; it was impossible
it could end in good. Time, the destroyer and fu]..
filler of predictions, bas proved that his Lordship
was a false prophet. The harmless 0. P. war bas
been productive of no such dire results.
It was to be expected that after this triumph, the
war in the pit would rage with redoubled acrimony.
A riot beginning at half-price would not satisfy the
excited feelings of the 0. P.s on the night of such
a victory. Long before the curtain drew up, the
bouse was filled with them, and severalplacards were
exhibited, which the constables and friends of the
managers strove, a~ usual, to tear into shreds. One
ofthem, which met this fate, was inscribed, ~•Success
to 0. P.! A British jury for ever!" It was soon
•• I • I
I
866 TOE O. P. MANIA.
replaced by another of a similar purport. It is
needless to detail the uproar that ensued ; the
jumping, the fighting, the roaring, and the bowl-
ing. For nine nights more the same system was
continued ; but the end was at hand.
On the 14th a grand dinner was given at the
Crown and Anchor tavern, to celebrate the victory
of Mr. ClifFord. u The reprobators of managerial
insolence/' as they called themselves, attended in
considerable numbers, and Mr. ClHford was voted to
the chair. The cloth had been removed, and a few
speeches made, when the company were surprised
by a message that their arch-enemy himselfsolicited
the honour of an audience. It was some time ere
they could believe that Mr. Kemble had ventured
to such a place. After some parley the manager
was admitted, and a conference was held. A treaty·
was ultimately signed and sealed; which put an end
to the long-contested wars of 0. P., and restored
peace to the drama.
All this time the disturbance proceeded at the
theatre with its usual spirit. It was now the sixty-
sixth night of its continuance, and the rioters were
still untired- still determined to resist to the last.
In the midst of it a gentleman arrived from the
Crown and Anchor, and announced to the pit that
Mr. Kemble had attended the dinner, and had yield-
ed at last to the demand of the public. He stated,
that it had been agreed upon between him and the
Committee for defending the persons under prose-
THE 0. P. MANIA. S67
cution, that the boxes should remain at the ad-
vanced price ; that the pit should be reduced to
three shillings and sixpence; that tbe private boxes
should be done away with ; and that all prosecu-
tions, on both sides, should be immediately stayed.
This announcement was received with deafening
cheers. As soon as the nrst burst of enth~iasm
was over, the 0. P.s became anxious for a confirma-
tion of the intelligence, and commenced a loud call
for Mr. Kemble. He had not then returned from
the Crown and Anchor; but of this the pitites
were not aware, and for nearly half an hour they
kept up a most excruciating din. At length the
great actor made his appearance, in his walking
dress, with his cane in hand, as he had left the
tavern. It was a long time before be could obtain
silence. He apologized in the most respectful terms
for appearing before them in such unbecoming cos-
tume, which was caused solely by his ignorance
that he should have to appear before them that
night. After announcing, as well as occasional in-
terruptions would allow, the terms that had been
agreed upon, he added, n In order that no trace or
recollection of the past differences, which had un-
happily prevailed so long, should remain, he was
instructed by the proprietors to say, that they most
sincerely lamented the course that had been pur-
sued, and engaged that, on their parts, all legal
proceedings should forthwith be put a stop .to."
The cheering which gr~eted this sp_
eech was in-
868 THE 0. P. MANIA.
terrupted at the close by loud cries from the pit of
"Dismiss Brandon," while one or two exclaimed,
•t We want old prices generally,-six shillings for
the boxes:• After an ineffectual attempt to address
them again upon this point, Mr. Kemble made
respectful and repeated obeisances, and withdrew.
The noises still continued, until Munden stood for-
ward, leading by the hand the humbled box-keeper_,
contrition in his looks, and in his hands a written
apology, which he endeavoured to read. The up-
roar was increased threefold by his presence, and,
amid cries of "We won't hear him!" "Where 's
his master?" he was obliged to retire. Mr. Harris,
the son of Kemble's co-manager, afterwards en-
deavoured to propitiate the audience in his favour;
but it was of no avail ; nothing less than his dis-
missal would satisfy the offended majesty of the pit.
Amid this uproar the curtain finally fell, and the
0. P. dance was danced for the last time within the
walls of Covent Garden.
On the following night it was announced that
Brandon had resigned his situation. This turned
the tide of popular ill-will. The performances were
" The Wheel of Fortune," and an afterpiece. The
house was crowded to excess ; a desire to be pleased
was manifest on every countenance, and when Mr.
Kemble, who took his favourite character of Pen-
ruddock, appeared upon the stage, he was greeted
with the most vehement applause. The noises
ceased entirely_, and the symbols of opposition dis-
THE O. P. MANIA. 869
appeared. The audience, hushed into attention,
gave vent to no sounds but those of admiration for
the genius of the actor. When, in the course ofhis
part, he repeated the words, " So ! I am in London
again !" the aptness of the expression to the circum-
stances of the night, was felt by all present, and
acknowledged by a round of boisterous and thrice
repea~ed cheering. It was a triumphant scene for
Mr. Kemble after his long annoyances. He had
achieved a double victory. He had, not only as a
manager, soothed the obstinate opposition of the
play-goers, but as an actor he bad forced from one
of the largest audiences he had ever beheld, appro-
bation more cordial and unanimous than he had
ever enjoyed before. The popular favour not only
turned towards him ; it embraced everybody con-
nected with the theatre, except the poor victim,
Brandon. Most of the favourite actors were called
before the curtain to make their bow, and receive
the acclamations of the pit. At the close of the
performances, a few individuals, implacable and
stubborn, got up a feeble cry of u Old prices for the
boxes;" but they were quickly silenced by the re-
iterated cheers of the majo.rity, or by cries of" Turn
them out!•• A placard, the last of its race, was at
the same time exhibited in the front of the pit,
bearing, in large letter11, the words u We are satis-
fied."
Thus ended the famous wars of 0. P., which, for a
period of nearly three months, had kept the metro-
voL. t. 2 B
THE 0. P. MANIA.
polis in an uproar. And after all, what was the
grand result? As if the whole proceeding had been
a parody upon the more destructive, but scarcely
more sensible wars recorded in history, it was com.:.
menced in injustice, carried on in bitterness of
spirit, and,ende~ like the labour of the mountain,
in a mouse. The abatement of sixpence in the
price of admission to the pit, and the dismissal of
an unfortunate servant, whose only fault was too
much zeal in the service of his employers,-such
were the grand victories of the 0. P.'s.
371
THE THUGS, oR PHANSIGARS.
Orribili favelle-parole di dolor.-D.ANTI!.
AMoNG the black deeds which Superstition has
imposed as duties upon her wretched votaries,
none are more horrible than the practices of
the murderers, who, under the uame of Thugs,
or Phansigars, have so long been the scourge of
India. For ages they have pursued their dark
and dreadful calling, moulding assassination into
a science, or extolling it as a virtue, worthy only
to be practised by a race favoured of Heaven.
Of late years this atrocious delusion has excited
much attention, both in this country and in India;
an attention which, it is to be hoped, will spe,edily
lead to the uprooting of a. doctrine so revolting
and anti-human. Although the British Government
has extended over Hindostan for so long a period,
lt does not appear that Europeans even suspected
the existence of this· mysterious sect until the com-
mencement of the present century. In the year
1807, a gang of Thugs, laden with the plunder
of murdered travellers, was accidentalJy discover-
ed. The inquiries then set on foot revealed to the
2B2
872 THE THUGS.
astonished Government a system of iniquity unpa-
ralleled in the history of man. Subsequent in-
vestigation extended the knowledge ; and by throw-
ing light upon the peculiar habits or the mUTderers,
explained the reason why their crimes had re-
mained so long undiscovered. In ·the following
pages will be found an epitome of all the inform-
ation which has reached Europe concerning them,
derived principally from Dr. Sherwood's treatise
upon the subjec~. published in 1816, and the still
more valuable and more recent work of Mr. Slee-
man, entitled the 1
' Ramaseeana; or, Vocabulary
of the peculiar Language of the Thugs.''
The followers of this sect are called Thugs, or
T'hugs, and their profession Thuggee. In the
south of India they are called Phansigars: tbe
former word signifying cr a deeeiver;" and the lat-
ter, 11
a strangler." They are both singularly ap-
propriate. The profession of Thuggee is heredi-
tary, and embraces, it is supposed, in every part
of India, a body of at least ten thousand indivi-
duals, trained to murder from their childhood;
carrying it on in secret and in silence, yet glory-
ing in it, and holding the practice of it higher than
any earthly honour. During the winter months,
they usually follow some reputable calling, to elude
suspicion ; and in the summer, they set out in gangs
over all the roads of India, to plunder and destroy.
These gangs generally contain from ten to forty
Thugs, and sometimes as many as two hundred.
TilE THUGS. 878
Each strangler is provided with a noose, to des-
patch the unfortunate victim, as the Thugs make
it a point neve.r to cause death by any other means.
When the gangs are very large, they divide into
smaller bodies; and each taking a different route,
they arrive at the same general place of rendez-
vous to divide the spoil. They sometimes travel
in the disguise of respectable traders; sometimes
as sepoys or native soldiers ; and at others, as go-
vernment officers. If they chance to fall in with
an unprotected wayfarer, his fate is certain. One
Thug approaches him from behind, and throws the
end of a sash round his neck ; the other end is
seized by a second at the same instant, crossed
behind the neck, and drawn tightly, while with
their other hand the two Thugs thrust his head
forward to expedite the strangulation : 8 third
Thug seizes the traveller by the legs at the same
moment, and he is thrown to the ground, 8 corpse
before he reaches it.
But solitary travellers are not the prey they are
anxious to seek. A wealthy caravan of forty or
fifty individuals has not unfrequently been destroyed
by them ; not one soul being permitted to escape.
Indeed, there is hardly an instance upon record of
any one's escape from their hands, so surely are
their measures taken, and so well 4o they calculate
beforehand all the risks and difficulties of the under-
taking. Each individual of the gang has his pecu..
liar duty allotted to him. Upon approaching a
(l ,.
I
874 1'HE TRUGS•
.town, or 1erai, two or three, known as the Soothae1,
or u inveiglers,'' are sent in advance to ascertain if
any travellers are there; to learn, if possible, the
amount of money or merchandize they carry with
them, their hours of starting in the morning, or any
other particulars that may be of use. If they can,
they enter into conversation with them, pretend to
be travelling to the same place, and propose, for
mutual security, to travel with them. This intelli-
gence is duly communicated to the remainder of the
gang. The place usually chosen for the murder is
some lonely part of the road in the vicinity of a
jungle, and the time, just before dusk. At given
signals, understood only by themselves, the scouts
of the party station themselves in the front, in the
rear, and on each side, to guard against surpris~.
A strangler and assistant strangler, called Bburtote
and Shamshea, place themselves, the one on the
right, and the other on the left of the victim, with-
out exciting his suspicion. At another signal the
noose is twisted, drawn tightly by a strong hand at
each extremity, and the traveller, in a few seconds,
hurried into eternity. Ten, twelve, twenty, and in
some instances, sixty persons have been thus des-
patched at the same moment. Should any vic-
tim, by a rare chance, escape their hands, he
falls into those of the scouts who are stationed
within hearing, who run upon him and soon over-:
power him.
Their next c~re is to dispose of the bodies. So
THE THUGS. 875
cautious are they to prevent detection, that they
usually break all the joints to hasten decomposition.
They then cut open the body to prevent it swelling
in the grave and causing fissures in the soil above,
by which means the jackals might be attracted to
the spot, and thereby lead to discovery. When
obliged to bury the body in a frequented district,
they kindle a fire over the grave to obliterate the
traces of the newly turned earth. Sometimes the ·
,grave-diggers of the party, whose office, like that of
all the rest, is hereditary, are despatched to make
the graves in the morning at some distant spot, by
which it is known the travellers will pass. The
stranglers, in the mean time, journey quietly with
their victims, conversing with them in the most
friendly manner. Towards nightfall they approach
the spot selected for their murder ; the signal is
given, and they fall into the graves that have been
ready for them since day-break. On one occasion,
related by Captain Sleeman, a party of fifty-nine
people, c~sisting offifty-two men and seven women,
were tlms t~imultaneously strangled, and thrown
into the graves prepared for them in the morning.
Some of these travellers were on horseback and
well armed, but the Thugs, who appear to have
been upwards of tw9 hundred in a gang, had pro-
vided against all risk of failure. The only one
left alive of all that numerous party, was an infant
four years old, who was afterwards initiated into all
the mysteries of Thuggee.
876 TBE THUGS.
If they cannot find a convenient opportunity for
~isposing of the bodies, they _
carry them for many
miles, until they come to a spot secure from intru-
sion, and to a soil adapted to receive them. Iffear
of putrefaction admonishes them to use deapatch,
they set up a large screen or tent, as other travel-
lers do, and bury the body within the enclosure_,
pretending, if inquiries are made, that their women
are within. But t.his only happens when they fall
in with a victim unexpectedly. In murders which
they have planned previously, the finding of a place
of sepulture is never left to hazard.
Travellers who have the misfortune to lodge in
the same chou/try or hostelry, as the Thugs, are
often murdered during the night. It is either
against their creed to destroy a sleeper, or they find
a difficulty in placing the noose round the neck of a
person in a recumbent position. When tl-is is the
case, the slumberer is suddenly aroused by the
alarm of a snake or a scorpion. He starts to his
feet, and finds the fatal sash around his neck.-He
never escapes.
In addition to these Thugs who frequent the
highways, there are others, who infest the rivers,
and are called Pungoos. They do not differ in
creed, but only in a few of their customs, from their
brethren on shore. They go up and down the
rivers in their own boats, pretending to be tra-
vellers of consequence, or pilgrims, proceeding to,
or returning from Ben~nes, Allahabad, or other
.THE THUGS. 877
sacred places• . The boatmen, who are also Thugs,
are not different in appearance from the ordinary
boatmen on the river. The artifices used to entice
victims on board are precisely similar to those em-
ployed by the highway Thugs. They send out
their 11
inveiglers" to scrape acquaintance with tra-
vellers, and find out the direction in which they
are journeying. They always pretend to be bound
for the same place, and vaunt the·superior accom-
modation of the boat by which they are going.
The travellers fall into the snare, are led to the
Thug captain, who very often, to allay suspicion,
demurs to take them, but eventually agrees for a
moderate sum. The boat strikes offinto the mid-
dle of the stream; the victims are amused and kept
in conversation for hours by their insidious foes,
until three taps are give~ on the deck above. This
is a signal from the Thugs on the look-out that the
coast is clear. In an instant the fatal noose is
ready, and the travellers are no more. The bodies
are tben thrown, warm and palpitating, into the
river, from a hole in the side of the boat, contrived
expressly for the purpose.
A river Thug, who was apprehended, turned ap-
prover, to save his own life, and gave the follow-
ing evidence relative to the practices of his frater-
nity :-" We embarked at Rajmahul. The travel-
lers sat on one side of the boat, and the Thugs on
the other; while we three (himself and two u stran-
glers,") were placed in the stern, the Thugs on our
S78 THE THUGS.
left, and the travellers on our right. Some of the
Thugs, dressed as boatmen, were above deck, and
others walking along the hank of the river, and
pulling the boat by the joon, or rope, and all, at
the same time, on the look-out. We came up with
a gentleman's pinnace and two baggage-boats, and
were obliged to stop, and let them go on. The
travellers seemed anxious ; but were quieted by
being told that the men at the rope were tired,
and must take some refreshment. They pulled out
something, and began to eat; and when the pin-
nace had got on a good way, they resumed their
work, and our boat proceeded. It was. now after-
Boon ; and, when a signal was given above, that all
was clear, the five Thugs who sat opposite the tra-
vellers sprang in upon them, and, with the aid of
others, strangled them. Having done this, they
broke their spinal bones, and then threw them out
of a hole made at the side, into the river, and kept
on their course ; the boat being all this time pulled
along by the men on the bank.''
That such atrocities as these should have been
carried on for nearly two centuries without ex-
citing the attention of the British Government,
seems incredible. But our wonder will be dimi-
nished when we refiect upon the extreme caution of
the Thugs, and the ordinary dangers of travelling
in India. The Thugs never murder a man near
his own home, and they never dispose of their
booty near the scene of the murder. They also
THE THUGS. 379
pay, in common with other and less atrocious rob-
bers, a portion of their gains to the Polygars, ott
native authorities of the districts in which they re-
side, to secure protection. The friends and rela-
tives of the victims, perhaps a thousand miles off,
never surmise their fate till a period has elapsed
when all inquiry would be fruitless, or, at least.,
extremely difficult. They have no clue to the as-
sassins, and very often impute to the wil4 beasts of
the jungles the slaughter committed by that wilder
beast, man.
There are several gradations through which every
member of the fraternity must regularly pass be.. "'
fore he arrives at the high office of a Bhurtote, or
strangler. He is first employed as a scout- then
as a sexton - then as a Sbumseea, or holder of
hands, and lastly as a Bhurtote. When a man who
is not of Thug lineage, or who has not been brought
up from his infancy among them, wishes to become
a strangler, he solicits the oldest, and most pious
and experienced Thug, to take him under his pro..
tection and make him his disciple; and under his
guidance he is regularly initiated. When he has
acquired sufficient experience in the lower ranks
of the profession, he applies to his Goo1·oo, or pre-
ceptor, to give the finishing grace to his education,
and ma~e a strangler of him. An opportunity is
found when a solitary traveller is to be murdered;
and the tyro, with his preceptor, J:aving.seen that
the proposed victim is asleep, and in safe keeping
•
8RO THE THUGS.
till their Teturn, proceed to a neighbouring field
aud perform several religious ceremonies, accom-
panied by three or four of the oldest and steadiest
members of the gang. The Gooroo first offers up
a prayer to the goddess, saying, " Oh, Kalee I
Kun·kalee! Bhud-kalee! Oh, Kalee! Maha-kalee!
Calkutta Walee! if it seems fit to thee that the
traveller now at our lodging should die by the
hands of this thy slave, vouchsafe us thy good
omen." They then sit down and watch for the
good omen ; and if they receive it within half an
hour, conclude that their goddess is favourable to
the claims of the new candidate for admission. If
they have -a bad omen, or no omen at all, some
other Thug must put the traveller to death, and
the aspirant must wait a more fa~ourable oppor-
tunity, purifying himself in the mean time by
prayer and humiliation for the favour of the god-
dess. If the good omen h11s been obtained, they
return to their quarters ; and the Gooroo takes a
handkerchief and, turning his face to the west, ties
a knot at one end of it, inserting a rupee, or other
piece ofsilver. This knot is called the goor khat, or
holy knot, and no man who has not been properly
ordained is allowed . to tie it. The aspirant re-
ceives it reverently in his right hand from his
Gooroo, and stands over the sleeping victim, with
a Sbumseea, or bolder of hands, at his side. The
tr.aveller is aroused, the handkerchief is passed
around his neck, nnd, at a signal from the Gooroo,
THE THUGS. 881
1s drawn tight till the victim is strangled ; the
Shumseea holding his hands to prevent his making
any resistance. The work being now completed,
the Bhurtote (no longer an aspirant, but an ad-
mitted member) bows down reverently in the dust
before his Gooroo, and touches his feet with both
his hands, and afterwards performs the same respect
to his relatives and friends who have assembled
to witness the solemn ceremony. He then waits
for another favourable omen, when he unties the
knot and takes out the rupee, which he gives to
his Gooroo, with any other silver which he may
have about him. The Gooroo adds some of his
own money, with which he purchases what they
call goor, or consecrated sugar, when a solemn
sacrifice is performed, to which all the gang are
invited. The relationship between the Gooroo and
his disciple is accounted the most holy that can
be formed, and subsists to the latest period of
life. A Thug may betray his father, but never
his Gooroo.
Dark and forbidding as is the picture already
drawn, it will become still darker and more re..
pulsive, when we consider the motives which prompt
these men to systematic murder. Horrible as their
practices would be, if love of plunder alone incited
them, it is infinitely more horrible to reflect that
the idea ofduty and religion is joined to the hope of
gain, in making them the scourges of their fellows.
1f plunder were their sole object, there would be
882 THE THUGS.
reason to hope, that when a member of the bro.
therhood grew rich, he would rest from his infernal
toils ; but the dismal superstition which he cherishes
tells him never to desist. He was sent into the
world to be a slayer of men, and be religiously
works out his destiny. As religiously he educates
his children to pursue the same career, instilling
into their minds, at the earliest age, that Thuggee
is the noblest profession a man can follow, and that
the dark goddess they worship will always provide
rich travellers for her zealous devotees.
Thefollowing is the wild andstartlinglegend upon
which the Thugs found the divine origin oftheir sect.
They believe that, in the earliest ages of the world,
a gigantic demon infested the earth, and devoured
mankind as soon as they were created. He was of
so tall a stature, that when he strode through the
most unfathomable depths of the great sea, the
waves, even in tempest, could not reach above his
middle. His insatiable appetite for human fiesh
almost unpeopled the world, until Bhawanee, Kalee,
or Davee, the goddess of the Thugs, determined to
save mankind by the destruction of the monster.
Nerving herselffor the encounter, she armed her-
self with an immense sword; and, meeting with the
demon, she ran him through the body. His blood
Bowed in torrents as he fell dead at her feet; but
from every drop there sprang up another monster,
as rapacious and as terrible as the first. Again
the goddess upraised her massive sword, and hewed
TH.E THUGS.
down the hellish brood by hundreds ; but the more
she alew, the more numerous they became. Every
drop of their blood generated a demon; and, al-
though the goddess endeavoured to lap up the
blood ere it sprang into life, they increased upon
her so rapidly, that the labour of killing became
too great for endurance. The perspiration rolled
down her .arms in large drops, and she wns com-
pelled to think of some other mode of extermi-
nating them. In this emergency, she created two
men out of the perspiration of her body, to whom
she confided the holy task of delivering the earth
from the monsters. To each of the men she gave
a handkerchief, and showed them how to kill with-
out shedding blood. From her they learned to tie
the fatal noose ; and they became, under her tuition,
such expert stranglers, that, in a very short space
of time, the race of demons became extinct.
When there were no more to slay, the two men
sought the great goddess, in order to return the
handkerchiefs. The grateful. Bhawanee desired
that they would retain them, as memorials of their
heroic deeds ; ansi in order that they might never
lose the dexterity that they had acquired in using
them, she commanded that, from thenceforward,
they should strangle men. These were the two
first Thugs, and from them the whole race have
descended. To the early Thugs the goddess was
more direct in her favours, than she has been to
their successors. At first, she undertook to bury
384 TUE THUGS.
the bodies of all the men they slew and plundered,
upon the condition that they should never look
back to see what she was doing. The command
was religiously obsened for many ages, and the
Thugs relied with implicit faith .upon the promise
of Bhawanee ; but as men became more corrupt,
the ungovernable curiosity of a young Thug offend-
ed the goddess, and led to the withdrawal of a
portion of her favour. This youth, burning with
a desire to see how she made her graves, looked
back, and beheld her in the act, not of burying,
but of devouring, the body ofa man just strangled.
Half of the still palpitating remains was dangling
over her lips. She was so highly displeased that
she condemned the Thugs, from that time forward,
to bury th~ir victims themselves. Another account
states that the goddess was merely tossing the body
in the air; and that, being naked, her anger was
aggravated by the gaze of mortal eyes upon her
charms. Before taking a final ]eave of her de-
votees, she present~d them with one of her teeth
for a pickaxe, one of her ribs for a knife, and the
hem of her garment for a noose. She has not
since appeared to human eyes.
The original tooth having been lost in the lapse
of ages, new pickaxes have been constructed, with
great care and many ceremonies, by each consider-
able gang of Thugs, to be used in making the
graves of strangled travellers. The pickaxe is
looked upon with the utmost veneration by the
THE THUGS. 885
tribe. A short account of the process of making
it, and the rites performed, may be interesting, as
showing still further their gloomy superstition. In
the first place, it is necessary to fix upon a lucky
day. The chief Thug then instructs a smith to
forge the. holy instrument: no other eye is per.
mitted to see the ·operation. The smith must en-
gage in no other occupation until it is completed,
and the chief Thug never quits his side during
the process. When the instrument is formed, it
becomes necessary to consecrate it to the especial
service of Bhawanee. Another lucky day is chosen
for this ceremony, care being had in the mean time
that the shadow of no earthly thing fall upon the
pickaxe, as its efficacy would be for ever destroyed.
A learned Thug then sits down ; and turning his
face to the west, receives the pickaxe in a brass
dish. After muttering some incantation, he throws
it into a pit already prepared for it, where it is
washed in clear water. It is then taken out, and
washed again three times ; the first time in sugar
and water, the second in sour milk, and the third
in spirits. It is then dried, and marked from the
head to the point with seven red spots. This is
the first part of the ceremony : the second coasists
in its purification by fire. The pickaxe is again
placed upon the brass dish, along with a cocoa-nut,
some sugar, cloves, white sandal-wood, and other
articles. A fire of the mango tree, mixed with
dried cow-dung, is then kindled ; and the officiating
VOL, I. 2 C
886 THE THUGS.
Thug, taking the pickaxe with both bands, passes
it seven times through the flames.
It now remains to be ascertained whether the
goddess is favourable to her followers. For this
purpose, the cocoa-nut is taken from the dish and
placed upon the ground. The officiating Thug,
turning to the spectators, and holding the axe
uplifted, asks, n Shall I strike?•' Assent being
given, he strikes the nut with the but-end of the
axe, exclaiming, u All hail! mighty Davee! great
mother of us all! •• The spectators respond, " All
hail r mighty Davee I and prosper thy children, the.
Thugs I"
If the nut is severed at the first blow, the
goddess is favourable; if not, she is unpropitious :
all their labour is thrown away, and the ceremony
must be repeated upon some more fitting occasion.
But if the sign be favourable, the axe is tied
carefully in a white cloth and turned towards the
west, all the spectators prostrating themselves be--
fore it. It is then buried in the earth, with its
point turned in the direction the gang wishes to
take on their approaching expedition. If the god-
dess desires to warn them that they will be un-
successful, or that they have not chosen the right
track, the Thugs believe that the point of the axe
will veer round, and point to the better way.
During an expedition, it is entrusted to the most
prudent and exemplary Thug of the party : it is
his care to hold it fast. If by any chance be
THE THUGS. 887
should let it fall, consternation spreads through
the gang: the goddess is thought to be ofFended ;
the enterprise is at once abandoned; and the
Thugs return home in humiliation and sorrow,
to sacrifice to their gloomy deity, and win back
her estranged favour. So great is the reverence
in which they hold the sacred axe, that a Thug
will never break an oath th~t he has taken upon
it. He fears that, should he perjure himself, his
neck would be so twisted by the. offended Bhawa.
nee as to make his face turn to ·his back ; and
that, in the course of a few days, he would ex-
pire in the most excruciating agonies.
The Thugs are diligent observers of signs and
omens. No expedition is ever undertaken before
the auspices are solemnly taken. Upon this sub.
ject Captain Sleeman says, " Even the most sen-
sible approvers, who have been with me for many
years, as well Hi'ndoos as Mussulmans, believe that
their good or ill success depended upon the skill
with which the omens were discovered and inter-
preted, and the strictness with which they were
observed and obeyed. One of the old Sindouse
stock told me, in presence of twelve others, from
Hydrabad, Behar, the Dooah, Oude, Ra.jpootana,
and Bundelcund, that, bad they not attended to
these omens, they never could have thrived as they
did. In ordinary cases of murder, other men sel-
dom escaped punishment, while they and their fa-
milies had, for ten generations, thrived, although
2c2
!88 THE THUGS.
they had murdered hundreds of people. ' This,'
said the Thug, ' could never have been the case
had we not attended to omens, and had not omens
been intended for us. There were always signs
around us to guide us to rich booty, and warn
us of danger, had we been always wise enough
to discern them and religious enough to attend
to them! Every Thug present concurred with
him from his soul.''
A Thug, of polished manners and great elo-
quence, being asked by a native gentleman, in the
presence of Captain Sleeman, whether he never
felt compunction in murdering innocent people, re.
plied with a smile that he did not. " Does any
man," said he, u feel compunction in following his
trade 1 and are not all our trades assigned us by
Providence?" He was then aaked how many people
he had killed with his own hands in the course of
his life 1 .u I have killed none," was the reply.
'' What ! and have you not been describing a num-
ber of murders in which you were concerned?"
11
True ; but do you suppose that I committed
them? Is any man killed by man's killing? Is it
not the hand of God that kills, and are we not the
mere instruments in the hands of God?"
Upon another occasion, · Sahib, an approver,
being asked if he had never felt any pity or com-
punction at murdering old men or young chil-
dren, or persons with whom he had sat and con-
versed, and who had told him, perchance, of
THE THUGS. 389
their private affairs-their hopes and their fears,
their wives and their little ones? replied unhesi-
tatingly that he never did. From the time that
the omens were favourable, the Thugs considered
all the fravellers they met as victims thrown into
their hands by their divinity to be killed. The
Thugs were the mere instruments in the hands
of Bbawanee to destroy them. "If we did not kill
them," said Sahib, " the goddess would never again
be propitious to us, and we and our families would
be involved in misery and want. If we see or hear
a bad omen, it is the order of the goddess not
to kill the travellers we are in pursuit of, and we
dare not disobey."
As soon as an expedition has been planned, the
goddess is consulted. On the day chosen for start-
ing, which is never during the unlucky months of
July, September, and December, nor on a Wednes-
day or Thursday ; the chief Thug of the party fills
a brass jug with water, which he carries in his right
hand by his side. With his left, he holds upon his
breast the sacred pickaxe, wrapped carefully in a
white cloth, along with five knots of turmeric, two
copper, and one silver coin. He then moves slowly
on, followed by the whole of the gang, to some field
or retired place, where halting, with his counte-
nance turned in the direction they wish to pursue,
he lifts up his eyes to heaven, saying, " Great god-
dess ! universal mother ! if this, our meditated ex-
pedition, be fitting in thy sight, vouchsafe to help
890 THE THUGS.
us, and give us the signs of thy approbation." AU
the Thugs present solemnly repeat the prayer after
their leader, and wait in silence for the omen. I£
within half an hour they see Pilkaoo, or good omen
on the left, it signifies that the goddess has taken
them by the left hand to lead them on ; if they see
the Tkibaoo, or omen on the right, it signifies that
she has taken them by the right hand also. The
leader then places the brazen pitcher on the ground
and sits down beside it, with his face turned in the
same direction for seven hours, during which time
his followers make all the ·necessary preparations
for the journey. If, during this interval, no unfa-
vourable signs are observed, the expedition advances
slowly, until it arrives at the bank of the nearest
atream, when they all sit down and eat of the goor,
or consecrated sugar. Any evil omens that are
perceived after this ceremony may be averted by
sacrifices ; but any evil omens before, would at
once put an end to the expedition.
Among the evil omena are the following :-Ifthe
brazen pitcher drops from the hand of the Jemadar
or leader, it threatens great evil either to him or to
the gang-sometimes to both. If they meet a fu-
neral procession, a blind man, a lame man, an oil-
vender, a. carpenter, a potter, or a dancing-master,
the expedition will be dangerous. In like manner
it is unlucky to sneeze, to meet a woman with an
empty pail, a couple of jackals, or a hare. The
cros-sing of their path by the latter is con.sidered
THE THUGS. 891
peculiarly inauspicious. Its cry at night on the
left is sometimes a good omen, but if they hear it
on the right it is very bad ; a warning sent to
the_
m from Bhawanee that there is danger if they
kill. Should they disregard this warning, and led
on by the hope of gain, strangle any traveller, they
would either find no booty on him, or such booty as
would eventually lead to the ruin and dispersion of
the gang. Bhawanee would be wroth with her chil-
dren; and causing them to perish in thejungle, would
send the hares to drink water out of·their skulls.
The good omens are quite as numerous as the
evil. It promises a fortunate expedition, if, on the
first day, they pass through a village where there is
a fair. It is also deemed fortunate, if they hear wail-
ing for the dead in any village but their own. To
meet a woman with a pitcher full of water upon her
head, bodes a prosperous journey and a safe return.
The omen is still more favourable if she be in a
state of pregnancy. It is said of the Thugs of the
Jumaldehee and Lodaha tribes, that they always
make the youngest Thug of the party kick the
body of the first person they strangle, five times on
the back, thinking that it will bring them good
luck. This practice, however, is not general. If
they hear an ass bray on the left at the commence-
ment of an expedition, and an another soon after-
wards on the right, they believe that they shall be
supereminently successful, that they sbaJI strangle
a multitude of travellers, and find great booty.
892 THE THUGS.
After every murder a solemn sacrifice, called the
Tuponee, it; performed by all the gang. The goor,
or consecrated sugar; is placed upon a large cloth or
blanket, which is spread upon the grass~ Beside it
is deposited the sacred pickaxe, and a piece ef sil~
ver for an offering. The Jemadar, or chief of the
party, together with all the oldest and most pru.
dent Thugs, take their places upon the cloth, and
tum their faces to the west. Those inferior Thugs
who cannot find room upon the privileged cloth, sit
round as close to it as possible. A pit is then dug,
into which the Jemadar pours a small quantity of
the goor, praying at the same time that the goddess
will always reward her followers with abundant
spoils. All the Thugs repeat the prayer after him.
He then sprinkles water upon the pickaxe, and
puts a little ofthe goor upon the head of every one
who has obtained a seat beside him on the cJoth.
A short pause ensues, when the signal for strangling
is given.t as if a murder were actually about to be
committed, and each Thug eats his goor in solemn
silence. So powerful is the impression made upon
their imagination by this ceremony, that it almost
drives them frantic with enthusiasm. Captain
Sleeman relates, that when he reproached a Thug
for his share in a murder of great atrocity, and
asked him whether he never felt pity ; the man re-
plied, " We all feel pity sometimes ; but the goor
of the Tuponee changes our nature ; it would
change the nature of a horse. Let any man once
THE THUGS. S9S
taste of that·goor, and he will be a Thug, though
he know all the trades and have all the wealth in
the world. I never was in want of food; my mo.
ther•s family was opulent, and her relations high in
office. I have been high in office myself, and be-
came so great a favourite wherever I went th.at I
was sure of promotion ; yet I was always miserable
when absent from my gang, and obliged to return
to Thuggee. My father made me taste of that
fatal goor, when I was yet a mere boy; and if I
were to live a thousand years I should never be able
to follow any other trade."
The possession of wealth, station in society, and
the esteem of his fellows, could not keep this man
from murder. From his extraordinary confession
we may judge of the extreme difficulty of extermi-
nating a sect who are impelled to their horrid prac-
tises, not only by the motives of self-interest which
govern mankind in general, but by a fanaticism
which fills up the measure of their whole existence.
Even severity seems thrown away upon the follow-
ers of this brutalizing creed. To them, punishment
is no example ; they have no sympathy for a brother
Thug who is hung at his own door by the British
Government, nor have they any dread of his fate.
Their invariable idea is, that their goddess only
suffers those Thugs to fall into the hands of the
law, who have contravened the peculiar observances
of Thuggee, and who have neglected the omens she
sent them for their guidance.
< '' I
THE THUGS.
To their neglect of the warnings of the goddess
they attribute all the reverses which have of late
years befallen their sect. It is expressly forbidden,
in the creed of the old 'fhugs, to murder women or
cripples. The modern Thugs have become unscru-
pulous upon this point, murdering women, and even
children, with unrelenting barbarity. Captain Slee-
man reports several conversations upon this sub-
ject, which he held at different times with Thugs,
who had been taken prisoners, or who had turned
approvers. One of them, named Zolfukar, said, in
reply to the Captain, who accused him of murder~
ing women, " Yes, and was not the greater part of
Feringeea's and my gang seized, after we had mur-
dered the two women and the little girl, at Ma-
nora, in 18801 and were we not ourselves both
seized soon after 1 How could we survive things
like that 1 Our ancestors never did such things."
Lalmun, another Thug, in reply to a similar ques-
tion, said, u Most of our misfortunes have come
upon us for the murder of women. We all knew
that they would come upon us some day, for this and
other great sins. We were often admonished, but
we did not take warning ; and we deserve our fates."
In -
speaking of the supposed protection which their
gQddess had extended to them in former times,
Zolfukar said :-" Ah ! we had some regard for re-
ligion then t We have lost it since. All kinds of
men have been made Thugs, and aU classes of
people murdered, without distinction ; and little
THE THUGS. 895
attention has been paid to omens. How~ after this,
could we think t~ escape? • • • • Davee
never forsook us till we neglected her!"
It might be imagined that men who spoke in
this manner of the anger of the goddess, and who~
even in custody, showed so much veneration for
their unhappy calling, would hesitate before they
turned informers, and laid bare the secrets and ex-
posed the haunts oftheir fellows:-among the more
civilized ruffians of Europe, we often find the one
chivalrous trait of character, which makes them
scorn a reward that must be earned by the blood of
their accomplices : but in India there is no honour
among thieves. When the approvers are asked, if
they, who still believe in the power of the terrible
goddess Davee, are not afraid to incur her dis-
pleasure by informing of their fellows, they reply,
that Davee has done her worst in abandoning them.
She can inflict no severer punishment, and there-
fore gives herself no further concern about her
degenerate children. This cowardly doctrine is~
however, of advantage to the .Government that
seeks to put an end to the sect, and has thrown a
light upon their practices, ·which could never have
been obtained from .other sources.
Another branch ofthe Thug abomination has more
recently been discovered by the indefatigable Cap-
tain Sleeman. The followers of this sect are called
MEGPUNNAs, and they murder travellers, not to rob
them of their wealth, but of their children, whom
S96 THE THUGS.
they afterwards sell into slavery. They entertain
the same religious opinions as the Thugs, and have
carried on their hideous practices, and entertained
their dismal superstition, for about a dozen years with
impunity. The report of Captain Sleeman states,
that the crime prevails almost exclusively in Delhi
and the natjve principalities, or Rajpootana of
Ulwar and Bhurtpore ; and that it first spread ex-
tensively after the siege of Bhurtpore in 1826.
The original Thugs never or rarely travel with
their wives; but the Megpunnas invariably take
their families with them, the women and children
being used to inveigle the victims. Poor travellers
are always chosen by the Megpunnas as the objects
of their murderous traffic. The females and chil-
dren are sent on in advance to make acquaintance
with emigrants or beggars on the road, travelling
with their families, whom they entice to pass the
night in some secluded place, where they are after.
wards set upon by the men, and strangled. The
women take care of the children. Such of them as
are beautiful are sold at a high price to the brothels
of Delhi, or other large cities ; while the boys and
ill-favoured girls are sold for servants at a more
moderate rate. These murders are perpetrated
perhaps five hundred miles from the homes of the
unfortunate victims ; and the children thus ob-
tained, deprived of all their relatives, are never in-
quired after. Even should any of their kin be
alive, they are too far off and too poor to institute
•
THE THUGS. 897
inqumes. One of the members, on being ques-
tioned, said the Megpunnas made more money than
the other Thugs ; it was more profitable to kill
poor people for the sake of their children, than
rich people for their wealth. Megpunnaism is sup-
posed by its votaries to be, like Thuggee, under the
immediate protection of the great goddess Davee,
or Kalee, whose favour is to be obtained before
the commencement of every expedition, and whose
omens, whether of good or evil, are to be diligently
sought on all occasions. The first apostle to whom
she communicated her commands for the formation
of the new sect, and the rules and ordinances by
which it was to be guided, was called Kheama
Jemadar. He was considered so holy a man, that
the Thugs and Megpunnas considered it an ex-
treme felicity to gaze upon and touch him. At the
moment of his arrest by the British autborities, a
fire was raging in the village, and the inhabitants
gathered round him and implored him to intercede
with his god, that theflames might be extinguished.
The Megpunna, says the tradition, stretched forth
his hand to heaven, prayed, and the fire ceased
immediately.
There now only remain to be considered the
exertions that have been made to remove from the
face of India this purulent and disgusting sore.
From the year 1807 until 1826, the proceedings
against Thuggee were not carried on with any ex-
traordinary degree of vigour; but, in the latter
398 THE THUGS.
year, the Government seems to have begun to ac·t
upon a settled determination to destroy it alto-
gether. From 1826 to 1885, both included, there
were committed to prison, in the various Presi-
dencies, 1562 persons accused of this crime. Of
these, 828 were hanged ; 999 transported ; 77 im-
prisoned for life ; 71 imprisoned for shorter periods;
il held to bail ; and only 21 acquitted. Of the re:..
mainder, 81 died in prison, before they wer~ brought
to trial, 11 escaped, and 49 turned approvers.
One Feringeea, a Thug leader of great notoriety,
was delivered up to justice in the year 1880, in
consequence of the reward of five hundred rupees
off'ered for his apprehension by the Government.
He was brought before Captain Sleeman, at Sangir,
in the December of that year, and offered, ·if his
life were spared, to give such information as wou1d
lead to the arrest of several extensive gangs which
had carried on their murderous practices undetected
for several years. He mentioned the place of ren-
dezvous, for the following February, of some well
organized gangs, who were to proceed into Guze-
rat and Candeisb. Captain Sleeman appeared to
doubt his information; but aocompanied the Thug
to a mango grove, two stages from Sangir, on
-the Toad to Seronage. They reached this place
in the evening, and in the morning Feringeea
pointed out three places in which he and his
·gang had, at different intervals, buried the bodies
·of three parties of travellers whom they bad
•
THE THUGS. 899
murdered. The sward had grown over all the
spots, and not the slightest traces were to be seen
that it had ever been disturbed. Under the sod of
Captain Sleeman's tent were found the bodies of
the first party, consisting of a pundit and his six
attendants, murdered in 1818. Another party of
five, murdered in 1824, were under t~e ground at
the place where the Captain's horses had been tied
up for the night ; and four Brahmin carriers of the
Ganges water, with a woman, were buried under
.his sleeping tent. Before the ground was moved,
Captain Sleeman expressed some doubts; but Fe-
ringeea, after looking ut the position of some neigh-
bouring trees, !Jaid he would risk his life on the
accuracy of his remembrance. The workmen dug
five feet without discovering the bodies; but they
were at length found a little beyond that depth,
exactly as the Thug had described them. With
this proof of his knowledge of the haunts of his
brethren, Feringeea was promised bis liberty and
pardon if he would aid in bringing to justice the
ptany large gangs to which he had belonged, and
which were still.prowling.over the country. They
were arrested in the. February following, at the
place of rendezvous pointed out by the appro\'et,
and most of them condemned and executed.
So far we learn from Captain Sleeman, who
only brought down his tables to the close of the
year 1885. A writer in the "Foreign Quarterly
Review" furnishes an additional list of 241 per~
·.
4.00 THE THUGS.
sons, committed to prison in 1886, ~or being con-
cerned in the murder and robbery of 474 indi-
viduals. Of these criminals, 91 were sentenced to
death, and 22 to imprisonment for life, leaving 806,
who were sentenced to transportation for life, or
shorter periods of imprisonment, or who turned ap-
provers, or died in gaol. Not one of the whole
number was acquitted.
Great as is this amount of criminals who have
been brought to justice, it is to be feared that many
years must elapse before an evil so deeply rooted
can be eradicated. The difficulty is increased by
the utter hopelessness of reformation as regards the
surVIvors. Their numbers are still calculated to
amount to ten thousand persons., who, taking the
average of three murders annually for each, as cal-
culated by Captain Sleeman and other writers,
murder every year thirty thousand of their fellow
creatures. This average is said to be under the
mark ; but even if we were to take it at only a
third of this calculation, what a frightful list it
would be! When religion teaches men to go astray,
they go far astray indeed! •
END OP THE FIRST VOLUME.
LOlfiiOW:
J'llU(TED BY UXUEL liE!rTLJtT~
Buzor HoDM, Shoe X..ne.
MEMOIRS
OF EXTRAORDINARY
POPULAR DELUSIONS.
VOL. IJ.
u I I
LUMIJON :
1'.&1N 'Il:J> Br 8AilUEL IIEN 'fLI::~·,
llangor Hou1e, ShOt' L>nc.
,, , ,.~Coogle
-..-;- ,r:/
//r ' ,~· ;,, ·t't ~ ~ ,·~... /
/
.....,.... r" .:.~ :~-:...! '·' .• i .., \! ·•••:i· ·; ,(".. Cnogk
MEMOIRS
0~' BXTRAORDINARY
POPULAR DELUSIONS.
BY CHARLES MACKAY.
AI.'TUOn 0)'
" THE THAMES J.liiD ITS 'J'IUBU'J'AJUES," «THE HOPI> OF TilE WOnL»," ET<,;,
"11 eot boo de eonno!lre leo dWru do l'eaptit bumaln. <:b•quc pcuple a ••afollu plu•
ou molna gr:oulh<a."
Mlt.LOT.
VOL. If.
LONDON:
RJCHAUD BENTLEY, NEW BTJRLINGTON STREET,
trubl~grr in ~rbinarv ttJ Jltr 1¥\o1jt~t&t·
1841.
CONTENTS
OF THE SECOND VOLUME.
THB CRUSADES
•. THE WJTCH MANIA
THB SLOW POISONBRS
HAUNTBD BOUSl!ll
R.4.0R
167
• 824
367
NATIONAL DELUSIONS.
TBE CRUSADES.
They heard, and up they sprung upon the wing
Innume:mble. AJJ when the potent rod
Of Amram's son, in Egypt's evil day,
Waved round the coast, up call'd a pitchy cloud
Ofloouats, warping on the eastern wind
That o'er the realm of impious Pharaoh hung
Like night, and darken'dall the realm ofNile,
So numberless were they. • • •
. . . . . . . ~
AU in a moment through the gloom were seen
Ten thousand banners rise into the air,
With orient colours waving. With them rose
A forest huge of spears; and thronging helms
Appear'd., and serried shields, in thick array,
Of depth immeasurable. Paradise Lott.
EvERY age has its peculiar folly-some scheme,
project, or phantasy into which it plunges, spurred
on either by the love of gain, the necessity of ex..
citement, or the mere force of imitation. Failing
in these, it has some madness, to which it is goaded
by political or religious causes, or both combined.
Every one of these causes in:Buenced the Crusades,
and conspired to render them the most extraoN
VOL. II. B
THE CRUSADES.
dinary instance upon record ofthe extent to which
popular enthusiasm can be carried. History in her
solemn page informs us, that the crusaders were
but ignorant and savage men, that their motives
were those of bigotry unmitigated, and that their
pathway was one of blood and teaTs. Romance,
on. the other hand, dilates upon their piety and
heroism, and pourtrays in her most glowing and
impassioned hues their virtue and magnanimity,
the imperishable honour they acquired for them-
selves, and the great services they rendered to
Christianity. In the following pages we shall ran-
sack the stores of both, to discover the true spirit
that animated the motley multitude who took .up
arms in the service of the Cross, leaving history to
vouch for facts, but not disdaining the aid of con-
temporary poetry and romance to throw light upon
_ feelings, motives, and opinions.
In order to understand thoroughly the state of
public feeling in Europe at the time when Peter the
Hermit preached tbe holy war, it will be nec,ssary
to go back for many years anterior to that event.
We must make acquaintance with the pilgrims of
the eighth, ninth, and tenth centuries, and learn
the tales they told of the dangers they had passed,
and the wonders they had seen. Pilgrimages to
the Holy Land seem at first to have been under-
taken by converted Jews, and by Christian devotees
of lively imagination, pining with a natural curl-
THE CRUSADES.
osity to visit the scenes which of all others were
most interesting in their eyes. The pious and the
impious alike Hocked to Jerusalem,-the one class
to feast their sight on the scenes hallowed by the
life and sufferings of their Lord, and the other, be-
cause it soon became a generally received opinion,
that such a pilgrimage was sufficient to rub offthe
long score of sins, however atrocious. Another
and very numerous class of pilgrims were the idle
and roving, who visited Palestine then as the mo-
derns visit Italy or Switzerland now, because it.
was the fashion, and because they might please
their vanity by retailing, on their return, the ad-
ventures they had met with. But the·really pious
formed the great majority. Every year their num-
bers increased, until at last they became so nume-
rous as to be called the " armies of the Lord.''
Full of enthusiasm, they set the danger and diffi-
culty of the way at defiance, and lingered with
holy rapture on every scene described in the Evan-
gelists: To them it was bliss indeed to drink the
clear waters of the Jordan, or be baptized in the
same stream where John had baptized the Saviour.
They wandered with awe and pleasure in the pur-
lieus of the Temple, on the solemn Mount ofOlives,
or the awful Calvary, where a God bad bled for
sinful men. To these pilgrims every object was
precious. Relics were eagerlysought after; flagons
of water from Jordan, or paniers of mould from the
B2
TUE CRUSADES.
hill of the Crucifixion, were brought home, and
sold at extravagant prices to churches and monas~
teries. More apocryphical relics, such as the wood
of the true cross, the tears of the Virgin Mary, the
hems of her garments, the toe-nails and hair of the
Apostles-even the tents that Paul had helped to
manufacture-were exhibited for sale by the knav-
ish in Palestine, and brought back to Europe " with
wondrous cost and care." A grove of a hundred
oaks would not have furnished all the wood sold in
little morsels as remnants of the true cross; and
the tears of Mary, if collected together, would have
filled a cistern.
For upwards of two hundred years the pilgrims
met with no impediment in Palestine. The en-
lightened Haroun AI Reschid, and his more im-
mediate successors, encouraged the stream which
brought so much wealth into Syria, and treated
the wayfarers with the utmost courtesy. The race
of Fatemite callphs,-who, although in other re-
spects as tolerant, were more distressed for money,
or more unscrupulous in obtaining it, than their
predecessors of the house of Abbas~-impose.d a tax
of a bezant for each pilgrim that entered Jerusa-
lem. This was a serious hardship upon the poorer
sort, .who bad begged their weary way across Eu-
rope, and arrived at the bourne of all their hopes
without a coin. A great outcry was immediately
raised, but still the tax was rigorously levied. The
pilgrims unable to pay were compelled to remain
l I I )o I
THE CRUSADES,
nt the gate of the holy city until some rich de-
votee arriving with his train, paid the tax and let
them in. Robert of Normandy, father of William
the Conqueror, who, in common with many other
nobles of the highest rank, undertook the pilgri-
mage, found on his arrival scores of pilgrims at the
gate. anxiously expecting his coming to pay the
tax for them. Upon no occasion was such a boon
refused.
The sums drawn from this source were a mine
of wealth to the Moslem governors of Palestine,
imposed as the tax had been at a time when
pilgrimages had become more numerous than ever.
A strange idea had taken possession of the popu-
lar mind at the close of the tenth and commence..
tnent of the eleventh century. It was universally
believed that the end of the world was at hand ;
that the thousand years of the Apocalypse were
near completion, and that Jesus Christ would
des~end upon Jerusalem to judge mankind. All
Christendom was in commotion. A panic terror
seized upon the weak, the credulous, and the
guilty, who in those days formed more than nine..
teen twentieths of the population. Forsaking their
homes, kindred, and occupation, they crowded to
Jerusalem to await the coming of the Lord, light-
ened, as they imagined, of a load of sin by their
weary pilgrimage. To increase the panic, the
stars were observed to fall from heaven, earth-
quakes to shake the land, and violent hurricanes
6 THE CRUSADES.
to blow down the forests. All these, and more
especially the meteoric phenomena, were looked
upon as the forerunners of the approaching judg.
ments. Not a meteor shot athwart the horizon
that did nbt fill a district with alarm, and send
away to Jerusalem a score of pilgrims, with staff
in hand and wallet on their back, praying as they
went for tbe remission of their sins. Men, women,
and even children, trudged in droves to the holy
city, in expectation of the day when the heavens
would open, and the Son of God descend in his
glory. This extraordinary delusion, while it aug-
mented the numbers, increased also the hardships
of the pilgrims. Beggars became so numerous on
all the highways between the west of Europe and
Constantinople that the monks, the great alms·
givers upon these occasions, would have brought
starvation within sight of their own doors, if they
had not economized their resources, and left the
devotees to shift for themselves as they could.
Hundreds of them were glad to subsist upon the
berries that ripened by the road, who, before this
great flux, might have shared the bread and flesh
of the monasteries.
But this was not the greatest of their difficulties.
On their arrival in Jerusalem they found that a
sterner race had obtained possession of the Holy
Land. The caliphs of Bagdad had been succeed-
ed by the harsh Turks of the race of Seljook,
who looked upon the pilgrims with contempt and
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. 7
aversiOn. The Turks of the eleventh century
were more ferocious and less scrupulous than the
Saracens of the tenth. They were annoyed at
the immense number of pilgrims who overran the
country, and still more so because they showed no
intention of quitting it. The hourly expectation
o{ the last judgment kept them waiting; and the
Turks, apprehensive of being at last driven from
the soil by the swarms that were still arriving,
heaped up difficulties in their way. Persecution
of every kind awaited them. They were plun.
dered, and beaten with stripes, and kept in sus-
pense for months at the gates of Jerusalem, unable
to. pay the golden bezant that was to facilitate
their entrance.
When the first epidemic terror of the day of
judgment bega~ to subside, a few pilgrims ventured
to return to Europe, their hearts big with indig-
nation at the insults they had sulfered. Every-
where as they passed they related to a sympathiz-
ing auditory the wrongs of Christendom. Strange
to say, even these recitals increased the mania for
pilgrimage. The greater the dangers of the way,
the more chance that sins of deep dye would be
atoned for. Difficulty and suffering only height-
ened the merit, and fresh hordes issued from every
town and vil1age, to win favour in the sight of
Heaven by a visit to the holy sepulchre. Thus did
things continue during the whole of the eleventh
century.
'8 THE CRUSADES.
The train that was to explode so fearfully was
now laid, and there wanted but the band to apply ·
the torch. At last the man appeared upon the
scene. Like all who have ever achieved so great
an end, Peter the hermit was exactly suited to the
nge; neither behind it, nor iu advance of it ; but
acute enough to penetrate its mystery ere it was
discovered by any other. Enthusiastic, chivalrous,
bigoted, and, if not insane, not far removed from
insanity, he was the very prototype of the time.
.True enthusiasm is always persevering and always
eloquent, and these two qualities were united in no
common degree in the person of this extraordinary
prep.cher. He was a monk of Amiens, and ere he
assumed the hood bad served as a soldier. He is
represented as having been ill favoured and low
in stature, but with an eye of surpassing bright-
ness and intelligence. Having been seized with
the mania of the age, he visited Jerusalem, and
remained there till his blood boiled to see the cruel
persecution heaped upon the devotees. On his re..
turn home he shook the world by the eloquent
story of their wrongs.
Before entering into any further details of the
astounding results of his preaching, it will be ad..
visable to cast a glance at the state of the mind of
Europe, that we may understand all the better the
causes of his success. First of all, there was the
priesthood, which, exercising as it did the most
conspicuous influence upon the fortunes of society,
THE CRUSADES. 9
claims the largest share of attention. Religion was
the ruling idea of that day, and the only civiliset
eapable of taming such wolves as then constituted
the flock of the faithful. The clergy were all in
all ; and though they kept the popular mind in the
most slavish subjection with regard to religious
matters, they furnished it with the means of defence
against all other oppression except their own. In
the ecclesiastical ranks were concentrated all the
true piety, all the learning, all the wisdom of the
time ; and, as a natural consequence, a great portion
of power, which their very wisdom perpetually in..
cited them tO extend. The people knew nothing of
kings and nobles, except in the way of injuries in-
flicted. The first ruled for, or more properly speak4
ing against, the barons, and the barons only existed
to brave the power of the kings, or to trample with
their iron heels upon the neck of prostrate demo-
cracy. The latter had no friend but the clergy,
and these, though they necessarily instilled the su-
perstition from which they themselves were not
exempt, yet taught the cheering doctrine that all
men were equal in the sight of heaven. Thus,
while Feudalism told them they had no rights in this
world, Religion told them they had every right in
the next. With this consolation they were for the
time content, for political ideas hacl as yet taken no
root. When the clergy, for other reasons, recom.
mended the Crusade, the people joined in it with
enthusiasm. The subject of Palestine filled aU
10 THE CRUSADES.
minds ; the pilgrims' ta.les of two centuries warmed
every imagination ; and when their friends, their
guides, and their. instructors preached a war so
much in accordance with their own prejudices and
modes of thinking, the enthusiasm rose into· a
frenzy.
But while religion inspired the masses, another
agent was at work upon the nobility. These were
fierce and lawless; tainted with every vice, endow-
ed with no virtue_, and redeemed by one good qua.
)ity alone, that of courage. The only religion they
felt was the religion of fear. That and their over-
boiling turbulence alike combined to guide them to
the Holy Land. Most of them had sins enough to
answer for. They .lived with their hand against
every man ; and with no law but their own passions.
They set at defiance the secular power of the clergy,
but their hearts quailed at the awful denunciations
of the pulpit with regard to the life to come. War
was the business and the delight oftheir existence ;
and when they were promised remission of all their
sins upon the easy condition of following their
favourite bent, is it to be wondered at that they
rushed with enthusiasm to the onslaught, and be-
came as zealous in the service of the Cross as the
great majority of the people, who were swayed by
more purely religious motives 1 Fanaticism and
the love of battle alike impelled them to the war,
while the kings and princes of Europe had still
another motive for encouraging their zeal. Policy
THE CRUSADES. 11
opened their eyes to the great advantages which
would accrue ·to themselves, by the absence of so
many restless, intrig_
uing, and blood-thirsty men,
whose insolence it required more than the small
power of royalty to restrain within due bounds.
Thus every motive was favourable to the Crusades.
Every class of society was alike incited to join or
encourage the war ; lings and the clergy by policy,
the nobles by turbulence and the love of dominion,
and the people by religious zeal and the concen-
trated enthusiasm of two·centuries, skilfuJly directed
by their only instructors.
It was in Palestine itself that Peter the Hermit
first conceived the grand idea of rousing the powers
ofChristendom to rescue the Christians ofthe East
from the thraldom of the Mussu1mans, and the se-
pulchre of Jesus from the rude bands of the infidel.
The subject engrossed his whole mind. Even in
the visions of the night he was full of it. One
dream made such an impression upon him, that he
devoutly believed the Saviour of the world him-
self appeared before him, and promised him aid
and protection in his holy undertaking. If his zeal
had ever wavered before, this was sufficient to fix it
for ever.
Peter, after he had performed all the penances
and duties ofhis pilgrimage, demanded an interview
with Simeon, the Patriarch of the Greek Church
at Jerusalem. Though the latter was a heretic in
Peter's eyes, yet he was still a Christian, and felt
]2 THE CRUSADES',
as acutely as himself for the persecutions heaped by
the Turks upon the followers of Jesus. The good
prelate entered fully into his Yiews, and, at his sug.
gestion, wrote letters to the Pope, and to the most
influentia~ monarchs of Christendom, detailing the
sorrows of the faithful~ and urging them to take up
arms in their defence. Peter was not a laggard
in the work. Taking an aWectionate farewell of
the Patriarch, he returned in all haste to Italy.
Pope Urban II. occupied the apostolic chair. It
was at that time far from being an easy seat. His
predecessor, Gregory, had bequeathed him a host
of disputes with the Emperor Henry IV. of Ger-
many, and he had made Philip I. of France his
enemy by his strenuous opposition to an adulterous
connexion formed by that monarch. So many
dangers encompassed him about, that the Vatican
was no secure abode, and he had taken refuge in
Apulia, under the protection ofthe renowned Robert
Guiscard. Thither Peter appears to have fol..
lowed him, though in what spot their meeting took
place is not stated with any precision by ancient
chroniclers or modern historians. Urban received
him most kindly; read, with tears in his eyes, the
epistle from the Patriarch Simeon, and listened to
the eloquent story of the Hermit with an attention
which showed how deeply he sympathised with the
woes of the Christian church. Enthusiasm is con-
tagious, and the Pope appears to have caught it
instantly from one whose zeal was so unbounded.
TllE CRUSADES. .18
Giving the Hermit full powers, he sent him abroad
to preach the holy war to all the nations and
potentates of Christendom. The Hermit preached,
and countless thousands answered to his call.
France, Germany, and Italy started at his voice,
and prepared for the deliverance of Zion, One of
the early historians of the Crusade, who was him-
self an eye-witness of the rapture of Europe,• de-
scribes the personal appearance of the Hermit at
this time. He says, that there appeared to be
something of divine in every thing which he said
or did. The people so highly reverenced him, that
they plucked hairs from the mane of his mule,
that they might keep them as relics. " 'bile preach-
ing, he wore in general a woollen tunic, with a dark-
coloured mantle, which fell down to his heels. His
anns and feet were bare, and he ate neither flesh
nor bread, supporting.himself chiefly upon fish and
wine. " He set out," says the chronicler, "from
whence I know not; but we saw him passing through
the towns and villages, preaching every where, and
the people surrounding him in crowds, loading him
with offerings, and celebrating his sanctity with
such great praises that I never remember to have
seen such honours bestowed upon any one.'' Thus
he went on, untired, inflexible, and full of devotion,
communicating his own madness to his hearers,
until Europe was stirred from its very depths.
While the Hermit was appealing with such signal
• Guibert de Nogent.
•
j 1 ' I
14 THE CRUSADES.
success to the people, the Pope appeale.d with as
• much success to those who were to become the
chiefs and leaders of the expedition. His first step
was to call a council at Placentia, in the autumn
of the year 1095. Here, in the assembly of the
clergy, the Pope debated the grand scheme, and
gave audience to emissaries who had been sent
from Constantinople by the Emperor ofthe East to
detail the progress made by the Turks in their
design of establishing themselve~ in Europe. The
clergy were of cotirse unanimous in support of the
Crusade, and the council separated, each individual
member of it being empowered to preach it to his
people.
But Italy could not be expected to furnish all
the aid required; and the Pope crossed the Alps
to inspire the fierce and powerful nobility and
chivalrous populaiion of GauL His boldness in
entering the territory, and placing himself in the
power of his foe, King Philip of France, is not the
least surprising feature of his mission. Some have
imagined that cool policy alone actuated him,
while others assert, that it was mere zeal, as warm
and as blind as that of Peter the Hermit. The
latter opinion seems to be the true one. Society
did not calculate the consequences of what it was
doing. Every man seemed to act from impulse
only ; and the Pope, in throwing himself into
the heart of France, acted as much from impulse
a{! the thousands who responded to his call. A
THE CRUSADES. 15
council -was eventually summoned to meet him at
Clermont, in Auvergne, to consider the state of the
church, reform abuses, and, above all, make pre-
parations for the war. It was in the midst of an
extremely cold winter, and the ground was covered
with snow. During seven days the council sat
with closed doors, while immense crowds from
all parts of France flocked into the town, in ex-
pectation that the Pope himself would address
the people. All the towns and villages for miles
around were filled with the multitude; even the
fields were encumbered with people, who, unable
to procure lodging, pitched their tents under the
trees and by the way-side. All the neighbourhood
presented the appearance of a vast camp.
During the ·seven days' deliberation, a sentence
of excommunication was passed upon King Philip
for adultery with Bertrade de Montfort, Countess
of Anjou, and for disobedience to the supreme
authority of" the apostolic see. This bold step im..
pressed the people with reverence for so stern s
church, which in the discharge of its duty·showed
itself no respecter of persons. Their love and
their fear were alike increased, and they were pr~
pared to listen with more intense devotion to the
preaching of so righteous and inflexible a pastor.
The great square before the cathedral church
of Clermont became every instant more densely
crowded as the hour drew nigh when the Pope
was to address the populace. Issuing from the
16 THE CRUSADES.
church in his full canonicals, surrounded by his
cardinals and bishops in all the splendour of Ro-
mish ecclesiastical costume, the Pope stood before
the populace on a high scaffolding erected for .the
occasion, and covered with scarlet cloth. A bril..
liant array of bishops and cardinals surrounded
him; and among them, humbler in rank, but more
important in the world's eye, the Hermit Peter,
dressed in his simple and austere habiliments.
Historians differ as to whether or not Peter ad-
dressed the crowd, but as all agree that he was
present, it seems reasonable to suppose that he
spoke. But it was the oration of the Pope that
was most important. As he lifted up his hands to
ensure attention, every voice immediately became
stiH. He began by detailing the miseries endured
by their brethren in the Holy Land; bow the
plains of Palestine were desolated by the outrage-
ous heathen, who with the sword and the firebrand
carried wailing into the dwellings and flames into
the possessions ofthe faithful ; how Christian wives
and daughters were defiled by pagan lust ; how the
altars of the true God were desecrated, and the
relics of the saints trodden under foot. "You/'
continued the eloquent pontiff, (and Urban the
Second was one of the most eloquent men of the
day,) u you, who hear me, and who have received
the true faith, and been endowed by God with
power, and strength, and greatness of soul,-whose
ancestors have been the prop of Christendom, and
THE CRUSADES. 17
whose kings have. put a barrier against the pro~
gress of the infidel1-1 call upon you to wipe off
these impurities from the face of the earth, and lift
your oppressed fellow-christians from the deptbs
into which they have been trampled. The sepul-
chre of Christ is possessed by the heathen, the
sacred places dishonoured by their vileness. Oh,
brave knights and faithful people ! offspring of in-
vincible fathers! .ye will not degenerate from your
ancient renown. Ye will not be restrained from
embarking in this great cause by the tender ties
pf wife or little ones, but will remember the words
of the Saviour of the world himself, 'Whosoever
loves father and mother more than me is not
worthy of me. Whosoever shall abandon for my
name's sake his house, or his brethren, or his sis-
ters, or his father, or his mother, or his wife, or his
children, or his lands, shall receive a hundredfold,
and shall inherit eternal life.'"
The warmth of the pontiff communicated itself
to the crowd, and the enthusiasm of the people
broke out several times ere he conclu.ded his ad-
dress. He went on to pourtray, not only the spi-
ritual but the temporal advantages, that should
accrue to. those who took up arms in the service
of the Cross. Palestine was, he said, a land Bow-
ing with milk and honey, and precious in the sight
of God, as the scene of the grand events which had
saved mankind. That land, he promised, should
~e divided among them. Moreover, they should
VOL. U. 0
j 1 ' I
18 THE CRUSADES.
have full pardon for all their offences, either
against God or man. " Go, then," he added, u in
expiation of your sins ; and go assured, that after
this world shall have passed away, imperishable
glory shall be yours in the world which is to come."
The enthusiasm was no longer to be restrained,
and loud sbonts interrupted the speaker ; the peo-
ple exclaiming as if with one voice, "Dieu le f1eult!
Dieu le veult!,. With great presence of mind
Urban took advantage of the outburst, and as soon
as silencewas obtained, continued : '4
Dear brethren,
to.day is shown forth in you that which the Lord
has said by his evangelist, ' When two or three are
gathered together in my name, there will I be in
the midst ofthem to bless tliem.' If the Lord God
had not been in your souls, you would not all have
pronounced the ·same words ; or rather God him.
self pronounced them by your lips, for it was He
that put them in your .hearts. Be they, then, your
war-cry in the combat, for those words came forth
from God. Let the army of the Lord when it
rushes upon His enemies shout but that one cry,
'Dieu le veult! Dieu le veult !' Let whoever is in-
·Clined to devote himself to this holy cause make
it a solemn engagement, and bear the cross of the
Lord either on his breast or his brow till he set
out, and let him who is ready to begin his ma~ch
place the holy emblem on his shoulders, in memory
.of that precept of our Saviour,' He who does not
take up his cross and follow me is not worthy of
me.'"
THE CRUSADES. 19
The news of this council spread to the remotest
parts of Europe in an incredibly short space of
time, Long before the fleetest horseman could
haYe brought the intelligence it was known by the
people in distant provinces, a fact which was con..
tsidered as nothing h~$!J than supernatural. But
the subjeet was in everybody's mouth, and the
.minds of men were prepared for the result. The
enthusiastic only asserted what they wished, and
the event tallied with their predicti9n. This w~,
however, quite enough in those days for a miracle,
ana 88 .a miracle every one regarded it.
For several months after the council of Clermont,
France and Germaoy presented a singul~ spec-
tacle. The pious, the fanatic, the ·needy, the disso-
lute, the young •nd the old, even wom~ aad chil-
df,en, and the halt and lame,.enrolled themselves by
hundreds. In every village the clergy were busied
in .keeping up the excitement, promising eternal
rewards to those who 88Sumed the red cross, and
fulminatwg the most awful denunciations against
all the worldly-minded who :refused or even hesi-
tated. Every debtor who joined the crusade wa•
freed by the papal .edict from the claims of his cre-
ditors; outlaws of e-very grade were made equ~l
.with the bones~ upon the same conditions. The
prtlp~rty of those who went was placed under the
protection of the church, and St. Paul and St.
Peter themselves were believed to descend from
their high abode., to watch over the chattels of the
c2
20 THE CRUSADES.
absent pilgrims. Signs and portents were seen in the
air to increase the fervour of the multitude. An
aurora-borealis of unusual brilliancy appeared, and
thousands of the crusaders came out to gaze upon
it, prostrating themselves upon the earth in adora-
tion. It was thought to be a sure prognostic of the
interposition of the Most High; and a representa-
tion of his armies fighting with and overthrowing
the infidels. .Reports of wonders were everywhere
rife. A monk had seen two gigantic warriors on
horseback, the one representing a Christian and the
other a Turk, fighting in the sky with flaming
swords, the Christian of course overcoming the
Paynim. Myriads of stars were said to have fallen
from heaven, each representing the fall of a Pagan
foe. It was believed at the same time that the
Emperor Charlemagne would rise from the grave~
and lead on to victory the embattled armies of the
Lord. A singular feature of the popular madness
was the enthusiasm of the women. Everywhere
they encouraged their lovers and husbands to for-
sake all things for the holy war. Many of them
burned the sign of the cross upon their breasts and
arms, and coloured the wound with a red dye, as a
lasting memorial of their zeal. Others, still more
zealous, impressed the mark by the same means
upon the tender limbs of young children and in-·
fants at the breast.
Guibert de Nogent tells of a mon'k who made a
large incision upon his forehead in the form of a
THE CRUSADES.
cross, which he coloured with some powerful ingre-
dient, telling the people that an angel had done it.
when he was asleep. This monk appears to have
been more of a rogue than a fool, for he contrived
to fare more sumptuously than any of his brother
pilgrims, upon the strength of his sanctity. The
crusaders everywhere gave him presents of food and
money, and he became quite fat ere he arrived at
Jerusalem, notwithstanding the fatigues of the way.
If he bad acknowledged in the first place that he
had made the wound himself, he would not have
been thought more holy than his fellows ; but the
story of the angel was a clincher.
All those who had property of any description
rushed to the mart to change it into hard cash.
Lands and houses could be had for a quarter of
their value, while arms -
and accoutrements of war
rose in the same proportion. Corn, which had
been excessively dear in anticipation of a year of
scarcity, suddenly became plentiful; and such was
the diminution in the value of provisions, that seven
sheep were sold for five deniers.• The nobles
mortgaged their estates for mere trifles to Jews and
unbelievers, or conferred charters of immunity upon
the towns and communes within their fiefs, for
sums which, a few years previously, they would
have rejected with disdain. The farmer endea-
voured to sell his plough, and the artisan his tools,
to purchase a sword for the deliverance of Jerusa-
• Guibert de Nogent.
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES.
lem. Women disposed of their trinkets for the
same purpose. During the spring and summer of
this year (1096) the roads teemed with crusaders,
all hastening to the towns and villages appointed ·
as the rendezvous of the district. Some were on
horseback, some in carts, and some came down the
rivers in boats and rafts, bringing their wives and
children, all eager to go to Jerusalem. Very felf
knew where Jerusalem was. Some thought it fifty
thousand miles away, while others imagined that it
was but a month's journey~ while at sight of every
town or castle, the children exclaimed, " Is that
Jerusalem? Is that the city ?"• Parties ofknights
and nobles might be seen travelling eastward, and
amusing themselv-es as they went with the knightly
diversion of hawking to lighten the fatigues of the
way.
Guibert de Nogent, 'Who did not write from hear-
say, but from ·actual observation, says, the enthu·
aiasm was so contagious, that when any one heard
the orders of the Pontiff, he went instantly to solicit
his neighbours and friends to join with him in ''the
way of God,, for so they called the proposed ex·
pedition. The Counts Palatine were full of the
desire to undertake the journey, and all the inferior
knights were animated with the same zeal. Even
the poor caught the flame so ardently, that no one
paused to think of the inadequacy of his means, or
to consider whether he ought to yield up his house
• Guibert de Nogent.
THE CRUSADES.
and his vine and his fields. Each one set about
selling his property, at as low a price as if he had
been held in some horrible captivity, and sought to
pay his ransom without loss of time. Those who
had not determined upon the journey, joked and
laughed at those w_
ho were thus disposing of their
goods at such ruinous prices, prophesying that the
expedition would be miserable and their return
worse. But they held this language only for a day.
The next., they were suddenly seized with the same
frenzy as the rest. Those who had been loudest in
their jeers gave up all their property for a few·
crowns, and set out with those they had so laughed
at a few hours before. In most cases the laugh
was turned against them, for when it became known
that a man was hesitating, his more zealous neigh-
bours sent him a present of a knitting needle or a
distaff, to show their contempt of him. There was
no resisting this, so that the fear of ridicule contri-
buted its fair contingent to the armies of the Lor~.
Another effect of the crusade was, the religious
obedience with which it inspired the people and
the nobility for that singular institution n The
Truce of God." At the commencement of the
eleventh century, the clergy of France, sympathiz..
iog for the woes of the people, but unable to di-
minish them, by repressing the rapacity and inso-
lence of the feudal chiefs, endeavoured to promote
universal good-will by the promulgation of the
famous 11 Peace of God.,. All who conformed to it
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES.
bound themselves by oath not to take revenge for .
any injury, not to enjoy the fruits of property
usurped from others, nor to use deadly weapons ;
in reward of which they would receive remission of
all their sins. However benevolent the intention
of this u Peace," it led to nothing but perjury, and
violence reigned as uncontrolled as before. In the
year 1041 another attempt was made to soften the
angry passions of the semi-barbarous chiefs, and the·
"Truce of God''. was solemnly proclaimed. The
truce lasted from the Wednesday evening to the
Monday morning of every week, in which interval
it-was strictly forbidden to recur to violence on any
pretext, or to seek revenge for any injury. It was
impossible to civilize men by these means; few
even promised to become peaceable for so uncon-
scionable a period as five days a week; or, if they
did, they made ample amends on the two days left
open to them. The truce was afterwards shortened
from the Saturday evening to the Monday morn-
ing; but litt1e or no diminution of violence and
bloodshed was the consequence. At the coun,.·
cil of Clermont, Urban II. again solemnly pro-
claimed the truce. So strong was the religious
feeling, that every one hastened to obey. All
minor passions disappeared before the grand passion'
of crusading ; the noble ceased to oppress,. the
robber to plunder, and the people to complain;
but one idea ~vas in all hearts, and there seemed to
be no room for any otl1er.
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. 25'
'fhe encampments of these heterogeneous mul-
titudes offered a singular aspect. Those vassals
who ranged themselves under the banners of their
lord, erected tents around his castle; while those
who undertook the war on their own account, con-
structed booths and huts in the neighbourhood of
the towns or villages, preparatory to their joining
some popular leader of the expedition. The mea-
dows of France were covered with tents. As the
belligerents were to have remission of all their sins
on their arrival in Palestine, hundreds of them gave
themselves up to the most unbounded licentiousness:·
the corirtezan, with the red cross upon her shoulders,
plied her shameless trade with sensual pilgrims,
without scruple on either side: the lover of good
cheer gave loose rein to his appetite, and drunken-
ness and debauchery flourished. Their zeal in the
service of the Lord was to wipe out all faults and fol-
lies, and they had tbe same suretyofsalvation as the
rigid anchorite. This reasoning had charms for the
ignorant, arid the sounds oflewd revelry and the voice
of prayer rose at the same instant from the camp.
It is now time to·speak of the· leaders of the
expedition. Great multitudes ranged themselves
under the command of Peter the Hermit, whom,
as the originator, they considered the most ap-
propriate leader of the war. Others joined the
banner of a bold adventurer, whom history has dig-
nified with no other name than that of Gautier
saris Avoir, or Walter the Pennyless, but who is
j 1 ' I
TU.E CRUSADES.
represented as having been of noble family, and
well skilled in the art of war. A third multitude
from Germany flocked around the standard of a
monk, named Gottschalk. of whom nothing is
known, except that he was a fanatic of the deepest
dye. All these bands, which together are said to
have amounted to three hundred thousand men,
women, and children, were composed of the vilest
rascality of Europe. Without discipline, principle,
or true courage, they rushed through the nations
like a pestilence, spreading terror and death wher-
ever they went. The first multitude that set forth
was led by Walter the Pennyless early in the
spring of 1096, within a very few months after
the Council of Clermont. Each man of that irre-
gular host aspired to be his own master : like their
nominal leader, each was poor to penury, and
trusted for subsistence on his journeyto the chances
of the road. Rolling through Germany like a tide_,
they entered Hungary, where_, at first, they were
r:eceived with some degree of kindness by the peo-
ple. The latter had not yet caught sufficient of
the fire of enthusiasm to join the crusade them-
selves, but were willing enough ~o forward the
cause by aiding those embarked in it. Unfor-
tunately, this good understanding did not last
long. The swarm were not contented with food
for their necessities, but craved for luxuries also:
they attacked and plundered the dwellings of the
country people_, and thought nothing of murder
j 1 ' I
TilE CRUSADES. 27
where resistance was offered. On their arrival be..
fore Semlin, the outraged Hungarians collected in
large numbers, and, attacking the rear of the cru-
sading host, s]e"' a great many of the stragglers,
and, taking away their arms and crosses, affixed
them as trophies to the walls of the city. Walter
appears to have been in no mood or condition to
make reprisals; for his army, destructive as 8
plague of locusts when plunder urged them on,
were useless against any regular attack from a de..
termined enemy. Their rear continued to be thus
harassed by the wrathful Hungarians until _they
were fairly out of their territory. On his entrance
into Bulgaria, Walter met with no better fate ;
the cities and towns refused to let him pass ; the
villages denied him provisions ; and the citizens
and country people uniting, slaughtered his follow.
ers by hundreds. The progress of the army waa
more like a l'etreat than an advance ; but as it was
impossible to stand still, Walter continued his
course till be arrived at Constantinople, with 8
force which famine and the sword had diminished
to one-third of its original number.
The greater multitqde, led by the enthusiastic
Hennit, followed close upon his heels, with a bulky
train of baggage, and women and children, suffi..
cient to form a host of themselves. If it were
possible to find a rabble more vile than the army
of Walter the Pennyless it was that led by Peter
the Hermit. Being better provided with means,
28 THE CRUSADES.
they were not reduced to the necessity of pillage
in their progress through Hungary ; and had they
taken any other route than that which led through
Semlin, might perhaps have traversed the country
without molestation. On their arrival before that
city, their fury was raised at seeing the arms and
red crosses of their predecessors hanging as tro-
phies over the gates. Their pent-up ferocity ex-
ploded at the sight. The city was tumultuously
attacked, and the besiegers entering, not by dint
of bravery, but of superior numbers, it was given
up to all the horrors which follow when Victory,
Brutality, and Licentiousness are linked together.
Every evil passion was allowed to revel with im-
punity, and revenge, lust, and avarice,-each had
its hundred victims in unhappy Semlin. Any ma·
niac can kindle a conflagration, but it requires
many wise men to put it out.. Peter. the Hermit
had blown the popular fury into a flame, but to
cool it again was beyond his power. His followers
rioted unrestrained, until the fear of retaliation
warned them to desist. When the King of Hun-
gary was informed of the disasters of Semlin, he
marched with a sufficient force to chastise the Her-
mit, who at the news broke up his camp and re-
treated towards the Morava, a broad and rapid
stream that joins the Danube a few miles to the
eastward of Belgrade. Here a party of indignant
Bulgarians awaited him, and so harassed biro as to
make the passage of the river.a task both of diffi-
THE CRUSADES. 29
culty and danger. Great numbers of his infatuated
followers perished in the waters, and many fell
under the swords of the Bulgarians. The ancient
chronicles do not mention the amount of the Her-
mit's loss at this passage, but represent it in gene-
ral terms as very great.
At Nissa the Duke of Bulgaria fortified hill)self..
in fear of an assault ; but Peter, having learned a
little·wisdom from experience, thought it best to
avoid hostilities. He pass~d three nights in quiet-
ness under the walls, and the duke, not wishing to
exasperate unnecessarily so fierce and rapacious a
host, allowed the townspeople to supply them with
provaswns. Peter took his departure peaceably on
the following morning, but some German vaga-
bonds falling behind the main body of the army,
set fire to the mills and house of a Bulgarian, with
whom, it appears, they had had some dispute on
the previous evening. The citizens of Nissa, who
had throughout mistrusted the crusaders, and were
prepared for the worst, sallied out immediately,
and took signal vengeance. The spoilers were cut
to pieces, and the townspeople pursuing the Her-
mit, captured all the women and children who had
lagged in the rear, and a great quantity of bag-
gage. Peter hereupon turned round and marched
back to Nissa, to demand explanation of the Duke
of Bulgaria. The latter fairly stated the provo-
cation given, and the Hermit could urge nothing
in palliation of so gross an outrage. A negotia-
30 THE CRUSADES.
tion was entered into which promised to be suc-
cessful, and the Bulgarians were about to deliver
up the women and children when a party of un·
disciplined crusaders, acting solely upon their own
suggestion, endeavoured to scale the walls and seize
upon the town. Peter in vain exerted his autho~
rity; tbe confusion became general, and after a
abort but desperate battle, the crusaders threw
down their arms and fled in all directions. Their
vast host was completely routed, the slaughter be.
ing so great among them as to be counted, not by
hundreds, but by thousands.
It is said that the Hermit fled from this fatal
field to a forest a few miles from Nissa, abandoned
by every human creature. It would be curious to
know whether, after so dire a reverse,
" His enpierood breast
Sharp 110rrow did in thou.aand pieces rive,"
or whether his fiery zeal still rose superior to ca·
lamity, and pictured the eventual triumph of his
.e~u.se. He, so lately the lead« of a hundred
thousand men, was now a solitary skulker in the
.forests, liable at every instant to be discovered by
some pursuing Bulgarian, and cut offin mid career.
Chance at last brought him within sight of an
eminence where two or three of his bravest knights
had collected five hundred of the stragglers. These
gladly received the Hermit, and a consultation
baring taken place, it was resolved to gatlter to-
gether the scattered remnants of the army. Fires
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. Sl
were lighted on the hill, and scouts sent out in all
directions for the fugitives. Horns were sounded.
at intervals to make known that friends were near,
and hefore nightfall the Hermit saw himself at the
head of seven thousand men. During the succeed-
ing day he was joined by twenty thousand more,
and with this miserable remnant of his force he
pursued his route towards Constantinople. The
bones of the rest mouldered in the forests of Bul-
garia.
On his arrival at Constantinople, where he found
Walter the Pennyless awaiting him, he was hos-
pitably received by the Emperor Alexius. It might
have been expected that the sad reverses they had
undergone would have taught his followers com-
mon prudence ; but, unhappily for them, their
turbulence and love of plunder were not to be
restrained. Although they were surrounded by
friends, by :whom all their wants were liberally sup-
plied, they could not refrain from rapine. In vain
the Hermit exhorted them to tranquillity; he pos-
sessed no more power over them, in subduing their
passions, than the obscurest soldier of the host.
They set fire to several public buildings in Con-
stantinople, out of pure mischief, and stripped the
lead from the roofs of the churches, which they
afterwards sold for old metal in the purlieus of the
city. From ibis time may be dated the aversion
which the Emperor Alexius entertained for the
crusaders,.and which was afterwards manifested in
j 1 ' I
TilE CRUSADES.
all his actions, even when he had to deal with the
chivalrous and more honourable armies which ar·
rived after the Hermit. He seems to have ima-
gined that the Turks themselves were enemies le~s
formidable to his power than these outpourings of
the refuse of Europe : h~ soon found a pretext to
hurry them into Asia Minor. Peter crossed the
Bosphorus with Walter, but the excesses of his
followers were such, that, despairing of accom·
plishing any good end by remaining at their headt
he left them to themselves, and returned to Con-
stantinople, on the pretext ofma~ing arrangements
with the government of AJexius for a proper sup-
ply. of provisions. The crusaders, forgetting that
they were in the enemy's country, and that union,
above all things, was desirable, gave themselves up
to dissensions. Violent disputes arose between the
Lombards and Normans, commanded by Walter the
Pennyless, and the Franks and Germans, led out by
Peter. The latter separated themselves from the
former, and, choosing for their leader one Reinaldo,
or Reinhold, marched forward, and took possession
of the fortress of Exorogorgon. The Sultan Soli-
maun was on· the alert, with a superior. force: A
party of crusaders, which had been detached from
the fort, and stationed at a little distance. as an
ambuscade, were surprised and cut to pieces, and
Exorogorgon invested on all sides. The siege ~as
protracted for eight days, during which the Chris-
tians suffered the most acute agony from the want
( I I )•I
THE CRUSADES.
of water. It is l1ard to say how long the hope of
succour or the energy of despair would have en-
abled them to bold out : their treacherous leader
cut the matter short by renouncing the Christian
faith, and delivering up the fort into the hands ofthe
Sultan. He was followed by two or three of his
officers ; all the rest, refusing to become Maho-
metans, were ruthlessly put to the sword. Thus
perished the last wretched remnant of the vast
multitude which had traversed Europe with Peter
the Hermit.
Walter tbe Pennyless and his multitude met as
miserable a fate. On the news of the disasters of
Exorogorgon, they demanded to be led instantly
against the Turks. Walter, who only wanted
good soldiers to have made a good general, was
cooler of head, and saw all the dangers of such
a step. His force was wholly insufficient to make
any decisive movement in a country where th4
enemy was so much superior, and where, in case
of defeat, he had no secure position to fall back
upon ; and be therefore expressed his opinion
against advancing until the ·arrival of reinforce.
ments. This prudent counsel found no favour: the
army loudly expressed their dissatisfaction at their
chiefJ and prepared to march forward without bim.
Upon this, the brave Walter put himself at their
head, and rushed to destruction. Proceeding to•
wards Nice, the modern fsnik, he was intercepted
by the army of the Sultan : a fierce b.attle ensued.
VOL. Jl. D
I I \ I
THE CRUSADBS.
in which the Turks made fearful havoc; out of
twenty-five thou.sand Christians~ twenty-two thou-
sand were slain, and among them Gautier himself,
who fell pierced by seven mortal wounds. The
remaining three thousand retreated upon Civitot~
where they intrenched themselves.
Disgusted as was Peter the Hermit at the ex·
cesses of the multitude, who, at his call, had for-
saken Europe, his heart was moved with grief and
pity at"their misfortunes. All his former zeal re..
vived : casting himself at the feet of the Emperor
Alexius~ he implored him, with tears in his eyes~ to
send relief to the few survivora at Civitot. The
Emperor consented, and a force was sent, which
arrived j~st in time to save them from destruction.
The Turks had beleaguered the place, and the cru..
1aders were reduced to the last extremity. Ne-
gotiations were entered into, and the last three
thousand were conducted in safety to Constan~
tinople. Alexius bad suffered too much by their
former excesses to be very desirous of retaining
them in his capital : he therefore caused them all
to be disarmed, and, furnishing each with a sum of
money, he aent them back to their own country.
While these events were taking place, fresh
hordes were issuing from the woods and wilds of
Germany, all bent for the Holy Land. They were
commanded by a fanatical priest, named Gotts-
chalk, who, like Gautier and Peter the Hermit,
took his way through Hungary. History is ex..
TH.E CRUSADES. 86
tremely meagre in her details of the conduct and
fate of this host, which amounted to at least one
hundred thousand men. Robbery and murder seem
to have journeyed with them, and the poor Hun-
garians were rendered almost desperate by their
numbers and rapacity. Karloman, the king of the
country, made a bold effort to get rid ofthem; for
the resentment of his people bad arrived at such a
height, that nothing short of the total extermina-
tion of the crusaders would satisfy them. Gotts-
chalk had to pay the penalty, not only for the
ravages of his own bands, but for those of the
swarms that had come before him. He and his
army were induced, by some means or other, to lay
down their arms: the savage Hungarians, seeing
them thus defenceless, set upon them, and slaugh-
tered them in great numbers. How many escaped
their arrows, we are not informed ; but not one of
them reached Palestine.
Other swarms, under nameless leaders, issued
from Germany and France, more brutal and more
frantic than any that had preceded them. Theit
fanaticism surpassed by far the wildest freaks ofthe
followers of the Hermit. In hands, varying in
numbers from one to five thousand, they traversed
the country in all directions, bent upon plunder and
massacre. They wore the symbol of the crusade
upon their shoulders, but inveighed against the
folly ofproceeding to the Holy Land to destroy the
Turks, while they left behind them so many Jews,
D2
·.
36 THE CRUSADES.
the still more inveterate enemies of Christ. ·They
swore fierce vengeance against this unhappy race,
and murdered all the Hebrews they could lay their
hands on, first subjecting them to the most horrible
mutilation. According to the testimony of Albert
Aquensis, they lived among each other in the most
shameless profligacy, and their vice was only ex-
ceeded by their superstition. Whenever they were
in search of Jews, they were preceded by a goose
and goat, which they believed to be holy, and ani-
mated with divine power to discover the retreats of
the unbelievers. ln Germany alone they slaugb~
tered more than a thousand Jews, notwithstanding
all the efforts of the clergy to save them. So
«lreadful was the cruelty of their tormentors, that
great numbers of Jews committed self-destruction
to avoid falling into their hands.
Again it fell to the Jot of the Hungarians t<>
deliver Europe from these pests. When there
were no more Jews to murder, the bands collected
in one body, and took the old route to the Holy
L-and, a route stained with the blood of three hun-
dred thousand who had gone before, and destined
also to receive theirs. The number of these swarms
l1as never been stated ; but so many of them
perished in Hungary, that contemporary writers,
despairing of giving any adequate idea of their
multitudes, state that the fields were actually
heaped with their corpses, and that for miles in its
course the waters of the Danube were dyed with
THE CRUSADES. S7
their blood. It was at Mersburg, on the Danube)
lhat the greatest slaughter took place,-a slaughter
so great as to amount almost to extermination.
The Hungarians for a while disputed the passage
of the river, but the crusaders forced their way
across, and attacking the city with the blind cou-
rage of madness, succeeded in making a breach in
the walls. At this moment of victory an unac-
countable fear came over them. Throwing down
their arms they fled panic-stricken, no one knew
why, and no one knew whither. The Hungarians
followed, sword in hand, and cut them down with-
out remorse, and in such numbers, that the stream
of the Danube is said to have been choked up by
their unburied bodies.
This was the worst paroxysm of the maune5s
of Europe; and this passed, her chivalry stepped
upon the scene. Men of cool heads, mature plans,
and invincible courage stood forward to lead and
direct the grand movement of Europe upon Asia.
It is upon tbese men that romance has lavished her
most admiring epithets, leaving to the condemna-
tion of history the vileness and brutality of those
who went before. Of these leaders the most dis-
tinguished were Godfrey of Bouillon Duke of Lor-
raine, and Raymond Count of Toulouse. Four
other chiefs of the royal blood of Europe also as-
sumed .the Cross, and led each his army to the
Holy Land: Hugh, Count of Vermandois, brothe·r
of the King of France; Robert, Duke of Nor-
j 1 ' I
38 THE CRUSADES.
mandy, the elder brother of William Rufus; Ro-
bert Count of Flanders, and Boemund Prince of
Tarentum, eldest son of the celebrated Robert
Guiscard. These men were all tinged with the
fanaticism of the age, but none of them acted en·
tirely from religious motives. They were neither
utterly reekless like Gautier sans Avoir, crazy
like Peter the Hermit, nor brutal like Gottschalk
the Monk. but possessed each of these qualities
in a milder form ; their valour being tempered
by caution, their religious zeal by worldly views,
and their ferocity by the spirit of chivalry. They
saw whither led the torrent of the public will ;
and it being neither their wish .nor their interest
to stem it, they allowed themselves to be car-
ried with it, in the hope that it would lead them
at last to a haven of aggrandizement. Around
them congregated many minor chiefs, the flower
of the nobility of France and Italy, with some
few from Germany, England, and Spain. It was
wisely conjectured that armies so numerous would
find a difficulty in procuring provisions if they
all journeyed by the same road. They, there·
fore, resolTed to separate, Godfrey de Bouillon pro-
ceeding through Hungary and Bulgaria, the Count
of Toulouse through Lombardy and Dalmatia, and
the other leaders through Apulia to Constantinople,
where the several divisions were to reunite. The
forces under these leaders have been variously esti-
mated. The Princess Anna Comnena talks ofthem
( I I )o I
THE CRUSADES. 39
as having been as numerous as the sands on the
aea-shore, or the stars in the firmament. Fulcher
of Chartres is more satisfactory, and exaggerates
Jess magnificently, w:hen he states, that all the
divisions, when they had sat down before Nice in
Bithynia, amounted to one hundred thousand horse-
men, and six hundred thousand men on foot, exclu-
sive of the priests, women and children. Gibbon is
of opinion that this amount is exaggerated ; but
thinks the actual numbers did not fall very far
short of the calculation. The Princess Anna after-
wards gives the number of those under Godfrey of
Bouillon as eighty thousand foot and horse ; and
supposing that each of the other chiefs led an army
as numerous, the·total would be near half a million.
This must be over rather than under the mark,. aa
the army of Godfrey of Bouillon was confessedly
the largest when it set out, and suffered less by the 1.,
way than any other.
The Count of Vermandois was the fint who set
foot on the Grecian territory. On his arrival at
Durazzo he was received with every mark of re-
spect and courtesy by the agents of the Emperor,
and his followers were abundantly supplied with
prov1Slons. Suddenly however, and without cause
assigned, the Count was arrested by order of the
Emperor Alexius, and conveyed a close prisoner to
Constantinople. Various motives have been as-
signed by different authors as having induced the
Emperor to this treacherous and imprudent pro-
j 1 ' I
40 THE CRUSADES•
ceeding. By every writer he has been condemned
for so flagrant a breach of hospitality and justice.
The most probable reason for his conduct appears
to be that. suggested by Guibert of Nogent, who
states that Alexius, fearful of the designs of the
crusaders upon his throne, resorted to this extre·
mity in order afterwards to force the Count to
take the oath of allegiance to him, as the price
of his liberation. The example of a prince so
eminent as the brother of the King of France,
would, he thought, be readily folJowed by the
other chiefs of the Crusade. In the result be
was wofully disappointed, as every man deserves to
be who commits positive .evil that doubtful good
may ensue. But this line of policy accorded well
~nough with the narrowmindedness of the Emperor,
who, in the enervating atmosphere of his highly
civilized and luxurious court, dreaded the influx
of the hardy and ambitious warriors of the West1
and strove to nibble away by unworthy means,
the power which he had not energy enough to
confront. If danger to himself had existed from
the residence of the chiefs in his dominions, he
might easily have averted it, by the simple means
of placing himself at the head of the European
movement, and directing its energies to their avow.
ed object, the conquest of the Holy Land. But
the Emperor, instead of being, as he might have
been, the lord and leader of the Crusades, which
he had himself aided in no inconsiderable degree
THE CRUSADES. 41
to suscitate by his embassies to the Pope, became
the slave of men who hated and despised him. No
doubt the barbarous excesses of the followers of
Gautier a11d Peter the Hermit made him look upori
the whole body of ·them with disgust, but it was
the disgust of a little mind, which is glad of any
excuse to palliate or justify its own irresolution
and love of ease.
Godfrey of Bouillon traversed Hungary in the
most quiet and orderly manner. On· his arrival
at Mersburg he found the country strewed with
the mangled corpses of the Jew-killers, and de...
manded of the King of Hungary for what reason
his people had set upon them. The latter detailed
the atrocities they had committed, and made it
so e\ident to Godfrey that the Hungarians had
only acted in se}f.defence, that the high-minded
leader declared himself satisfied and passed on,
without giving ot receiving molestation. On his
arrival at Philippopoli, he was informed for the first
time of the imprisonment of the Count of Verman-
dois. He immediately sent messengers to the Em..
peror, demanding the Count's release, and threat-
ening, in case of refusal, to lay waste the country
with fire and sword. After waiting a day at Phi...
lippopoli he marched on to Adrianople, where he
was met by his messengers returning with the Em-
peror's refusal. Godfrey, the bravest and most de-
termined of the leaders of the Crusade, was not a
mao to swerve from his word, and the country was
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES.
given up to pillage. Alexius here committed an.;.
other blunder. No sooner did he learn from dire
·experience that the crusader was not an utterer of
idle threats, than he consented to the release of the
prisoner. As he had been unjust in the first in-
stance, be became cowardly in the second, and
taught his enemies (for 80 the crusaders were
forced to consider themselves) a lesson wbich they
took care to remember to his cost, that they could
hope nothing from his sense of justice, but every
thing from his fears. Godfrey remained encamped
for several weeks in the neighbourhood of Constan-
tinople, to the great annoyance of Alexius, who
sought by every means to extort from him the
homage he bad extorted from Vermandois. Some·
times be acted as if at open and declared war with
the crusaders, and sent his troops against them.
Sometimes he refused to supply them with food,
and ordered the markets to be shut against them,
wbUe at other times be was all for peace and good-
will, and sent costly presents to Godfrey. The
honest, straightforward crusader was at last 80
wearied by his false kindness, and so pestered by
his attacks, that, allowing his indignation to get
the better of his judgment, he gave up the country
around Constantinople to be plundered by his sol-
diers. For six days the flames of the farm-houses
around struck terror into the heart or Alexius, but
as Godfrey anticipated they convinced him of his
error. Fearing that Constantinople itself would
TllE CRUSADES.
be the next object of attack, he sent messengers to
demand an interview with Godfrey, offering at the
same time to leave his son as a hostage for his
good faith. Godfrey agreed to meet him, and,
whether to put an end to these useless dissensions,
or for some other unexplained reason, be rendered
homage to Alexius as his liege lord. He was
thereupon loaded with honours, and, according to
a singular custom of that age, underwent the ce-
remony of the u adoption of honour," as son to
the Emperor. Godfrey, and his brother Baudouin
de Bouillon, conducted themselves with proper
courtesy on this occasion, but were not able to
restrain the insolence of their followers, who did
not conceive themselves bound to keep any terms
with a man so insincere as he had shown himself.
One barbarous chieftain, Count Robert of Paris,
carried his insolence so far as to seat himself upon
the throne, an insult which Alexius merely resented
with a sneer, but which did not induce him to look
with less mistrust upon the hordes that were still
advancing.
It is impossible, notwithstanding his treachery,
to avoid feeling some compassion for the Emperor,
whose life at this time was rendered one long scene
of misery by the presumption of the crusaders, and
his not altogether groundless fears of the evil they
might inflict upon him, should any untoward cir-
cumstance force the current of their ambition to
the conquest of his empire. His daughter~ Anna
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES.
Comnena, feelingly deplores his state of life at this
time, and a learned German,• in a recent work,
describes it, on the authority of the Princess, in the
following manner :-
" To avoid all occasion of offence to the Cru-
saders, Alexius complied with all their whims, and
their (on many occasions) unreasonable demands,
even at the expense of great bodily exertion, at 11
time when he was suffering severely under the
gout, which eventually brought him to his grave.
No crusader who desired an interview with hin1
was refused access: he listened with the utmost
patience to the long-winded harangues which theit
loquacity or zeal continually wearied him with :
he endured, without expressing any impatience, the
unbecoming and haughty language which they per..
mitted themselves to employ towards him, and
severely reprimanded his officers when they under-
took to defend the dignity of the Imperial station
from these rude assaults ; for he trembled with
apprehension at the slightest disputes, lest they
might become the occasion ofgreater evil. Though
t.he Counts often appeared before him with trains
altogether unsuitable to their dignity and to his--
sometimes with an entire troop, which completely
filled the Royal apartment-the Emperor held his
peace. He listened to them at all hours ; he often
seated himself on his tbrone at day-break to attend
to their wishes and requests, and the evening twi-
• M. Wilken's Geschichte der Kreuzziige.
j 1 ' I
TilE CRUSADES. 45
light saw him still in the same place: Very fre-
quently he could not snatch time to refresh himself
with meat and drink. During many nights he
could not obtain any repose, and was obliged to
indulge in an unrefreshing sleep upon his throne,
with his head resting on his hands. Even this
slumber was continually disturbed by the appear...
ance and harangues of some newly-arrived rude
knights. ·when all the courtiers, wearied out by
the efforts of the day and by night-watching, could
no longer keep themselves on their feet, and sank
down exhausted-some upon benches and others
on the Boor-AJexius still rallied his strength to
listen with seeming attention to the wearisome
chatter of the Latins, that they might have no oc.
casion or pretext for discontent. In such a state
of fear and anxiety, how could Alexius comport
himself with dignity and like an Emperor ?"
Alexius, however, had himself to blame, in a
great measure, for the indignities he suffered : OW·
ing to his insincerity, the crusaders mistrusted
him so much, that it became at last a common say-
ing, that the Turks and Saracens were not such
inveterate foes to the Western or Latin Christians
as the Emperor Alexius and the Greeks.* Itwould
be needless in this sketch, which does not profess to
be so much a history of the Crusades as ofthe mad..
ness of Europe, from which they sprang, to detail
the various acts of bribery and intimidation, cajolery
* Willcen.
46 THE CRUSADES.
and hostility, by which Alexius contrived to make
each of the leaders in succession, as they arrived,
take the oath of allegiance to him as their Suzerain.
One way or another he exacted from each the barren
homage on which he had set his hea'rt, and they
were then allowed to proceed into Asia Minor.
One only, Raymond de St. Gilles, Count of Tou-
louse, obstinately refused the homage.
Their residence in Constantinople was produc-
tive of no good to the armies of the Cross. Bick-
erings and contentions on the one hand, and the
influence of a depraved and luxurious court on the
other~ destroyed the elasticity of their spirits, and
cooled the first ardour of their enthusiasm. At
one time the army of the Count of Toulouse was
on the point of disbanding itself; and, had not
their leader energetically removed them across the
Bosphorus, this would have been the result. Once
in Asia, their spirits in some degree revived~ and
the presence of danger and difficulty nerved them
to the work they had undertaken. The first ope-
ration of the war was the siege of Nice, to gain
possession of which all their efforts were directed.
Godfrey of Bouillon and the Count of Verman-
dois were joined under its walls by each host in
succession, as it left Constantinople. Among the
celebrated crusaders who fought at this siege, we
find, besides the leaders already mentioned, the
brave and generous Tancred, whose name and
fame have been immortalized in the Gerusakmme
THE CRUSADES.
Liherata, the valorous Bishop of Puy, Baldwin,
afterwards King of Jerusalem, and Peter the Her-
mit, now an almost solitary soldier, shorn of all the
power and influence he had formerly possessed.
Kilij Aslaun, the Sultan of Roum, and chief of the
Seljukian Turks, whose deeds, surrounded by the
false halo of romance, are familiar to the readers
of Tasso, under the name of Soliman, marched to
defend this city, but was defeated after several
obstinate engagements, in which the Christians
showed a degree of heroism that quite astonished
him. The Turkish chief had expected to find a
wild undisciplined multitude, like that under Peter
the Hermit, without leaders capable of enforcing
obedience; instead of which be found the most
experienced leaders of the age at the head ofarmies
that had just fanaticism enough to be ferocious,
but not enough to render them ungovernable. In
these engagements, many hundreds fell on both
sides ; and onboth sidesthe most revoltingbarbarity
was practised : the crusaders cut off the heads of
the fallen Mussulmans, and sent them in paniers to
Constantinople, as trophies of their victory. After
the temporary defeat of Kilij Aslaun, the siege of
Nice was carried on with redoubled vigour. The
Turks defended themselves with the greatest ob..
stinacy, and discharged showers ofpoisoned arrows
upon the crusaders. When any unfortunate wretch
waa killed under the walls, they let down iron hooks
from above, and drew the body up, which, after
j 1 ' I
TilE CRUSADES'.
stripping and mutilating, they threw back again
at the besiegers. The latter were well supplied
with provisions, and for six-and-thirty days the
siege continued without any relaxation ofthe efforts
on either side. Many tales are told of the almost
superhuman heroism of the Christian leaders-
how one man put a thousand to flight ; and bow
the arrows of the faithful never missed their mark.
One anecdote of Godfrey of Bouillon, related by
Albert of Aix, is worth recording, not only as
showing the high opinion entertained of his valour,
but as showing the contagious credulity of the
armies-a credulity which as often led them to the
very verge of defeat, as it incited them to victory.
One Turk, of gigantic stature, took his station day
by day on the battlements of Nice, and, bearing an
enormous bow, committed great havoc among the
Christian host. Not a shaft be sped, but bore
death upon its point; and, although the Crusaders
aimed repeatedly at his breast, and he stood in the
most exposed position, their arrows fell harmless at
his feet. He seemed to be invulnerable to attack ;
and a report was soon spread abroad, that he was
no other than the Arch Fiend himself, and that
mortal hand could not prevail against him. God-
frey of Bouillon, who had no faith in the super-
natural character of the Mussulman, determined,
if possible.• to put an end to the dismay which was
rapidly paralyzing tbe exertions ofhis best soldiers.
Taking a huge cross-bow, he stood forward in front
THE CRUSADES.
of the .annyJ to try the steadiness of his hand
against the much-dreaded archer : the shaft was
aimed directly at his heart, and took fatal effect.
The Moslem feJl amid the groans of the besieged,
and the sh~uts of Deus atjjuva ! Deus atljuva! the
war-cry of the besiegers.
tAt last the crusaders imagined that they had
overcome all obstacles~ and were preparing to take
po'ssession of the· city, when to their great astonish-
ment they saw the flag of the Emperor Alexius
flying from the battlements. An emissary of the
Emperor, named Faticius or Tatin~ had contrived
to gain admission with a body of Greek troops at a
pointwhich the crusaders bad left unprotected~ a.nd
had persuaded the Turks to surrender to him rather
than to the crusading forces. The greatest indig-
nation·prevailed in the army when this stratagem
was discovered~ and the soldiers were, with the
utmost difficulty, prevented from renewing the
attack and besieging the Greek emissary.
The army~ however, continued its march~ and by
some means or other was broken into two divisions;
some historians say accidentally~• while others
affirm by mutual consent, and for the convenience
of obtaining provisions on the way.t The one
division was composed of the forces under Bohe--
mund, Tancred, and the Duke of Normandy; while
the other, which took a route at some distance on
• Fulcher of Chartree.-Guibert de Nogent.- Vital.
t William of Tyre.-Milla.-Wilken, &c.
VOL. II. E
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADEs.·
the right, was commanded by Godfrey of Bouillon
and the other chiefs. The Sultan of Roum,.who,
after his losses at Nice, had been silently making
great efforts to crush the crusaders .at one blow,
collected in a very short time all the multitudi-
nous tribes that owed him allegiance, and with an
army which, according to a moderate calculation,
amounted to two hundred thousand men, chiefly
cavalry, he fell upou the first division of the Chris-
tian host in the valley of Dorylmum. It was early
in the morning of the l~t of July 1097, when the
crusaders saw the first companies of the Turkish
horsemen pouring down upon them from the hills.
Bohemund hnd hardly time to set himself in order,
and transport his sick and helpless to the rear,
when the overwhelming force of the Orientals was
upon him. The Christian army, composed prin·
• cipally of men on foot, gave way on all sides, and
the hoofs of the Turkish steeds, and the poisoned
arrows of their bowmen, mowed them down by
hundreds. After having lost the flower of their
chivalry, the Christians retreated upon their bag-
gage, when a dreadful slaughter took place. Nei-
ther women nor children, no.r the sick, were spared.
Just as -they were reduced to the last extremity.
Godfrey of Bouillon and the Count of Toulouse
made their appearance on the field, and ·turned the
tide. of battle. After an obstinate engagement the
Turks fied, and their rich camp fell into the hands
of the enemy. The loss ofthe crusaders amounted
l'HE CRUSADJ~s; 51
to about four thousand men, with several chiefs of
renown, among whom were Count Robert of Parit
and William the brother of Tancred. The loss of
the Turks, which did not exceed this number.
taught them to pursue a different mode of warfare.
The Sultan was far from being defeated. With
his still gigantic army, he ]aid waste all the
country on either side of the crusaders. The
latter, who were unaware of the tactics of the
enemy, found plenty of provisions in the Turkish
camp; but so far from economizing these resources,
they gave themselves up for several days to the
most unbounded extravagance. They soon paid
dearly for their heedlessness. ln the ravaged coun.-
try of Phrygia, through which they advanced to-
wards Antiochetta, they suffered dreadfully for
want of food for themselves and pasture for their
cattle. Above them was a scorching sun, almo&t
sufficient of itself to dry up the freshness of the
Ian~ a task which the firebrands of the Sultan had
but too surely effected, and water was not to be had.
after the first day of their march. The pilgriiDI
died at the rate of five hundred a-day. The hol'Ses
of the knights perished on the road, and the bag..
gage which they had aided to transport, was either
placed upon dogi, sheep, and swine, or abandoned
altogether. In some of the calamities that after-
wards befell them, the Christians gan thems.eives
up to the most reckless profligacy; but upon this
occasion, the .dissensions which prosperity had en;.
E~
52 THE .CRUSADES.
gendered, were all forgotten. Religion, often dis-·
regarded, arose in the stern presence of misfortune,
and cheered them as they died by the promises of
eternal felicity. ·
At length they reached Antiochetta, where they
found water in abundance, and pastures for their
expiring cattle.. Plenty once more surrounded
them, and here they pitched their tents. Un-
taught by the bitter experience of famine, they
again gave themselves up to luxury and waste.
On the 18th of October they sat down before the
·strong city of Antioch, the siege of which, and the
events to which it gave rise,. are among the most
extraordinary incidents of the Crusade. The.city,
-which is sit,uated on ~n eminence, and washed by
·the·river Orontes, is naturally a very strong posi-
·tion, and the Turkish garrison were well suwlied
with provisions to endure a long siege. In" this
Tespect t11e Christians were also fortunate, but,
unluckily for · themselves, unwise. Their force
. amounted to three hundred thousand fighting men;
and we are informed by RaJI!lond d'Argilles,·that
.they had so much provision, that they threw away
-the greater part of every animal they killed, being
·so dainty, that they would · only eat particular
parts of the beast. So insane was their extrava-
-gance, that in less than ten days famine ·began to
.stare them in the face. After making a fruitless
· attempt to gain possession of the city by a coup de
-main, they, starving themselves, sat down to starve
j 1 ' I
TJIE CRUSADES.-
aut the enemy. But with want came a cooling of
enthu'siasm. The chiefs began to grow weary ofthe
expedition. Baldwin had previou_
sly detached him-.
self from the main body of the army,.and, proceed~
ing to Edessa, had intrigued himself into the su-.
preme power in that little principality. The other
leaders were animated with Jess zeal than hereto-
fore.. Stephen of Chartres and Hugh of Verman-
dois began to waver, unable to endure the priva;
tions which their own folly and profusion had
brought upon them. Even Peter the Hermit be-
came sick at heart ere aU was over. When the
famine had become so urgent that they were re-
duced to eat human flesh in the extremity of their
hunger, Bohemund and Robert of Flanders set forth
on an expedition to procure a supply. They were
in a slight degree successJul; but the relief they
brought was not economized, and in two days they
were as destitute. as before. Faticius, the Greek
commander and representative of Alexius, deserted
with his division under pretence of seeking for food,.
and his example wa~ followed by various bodies of
crusaders.
Misery was rife among those who remained, nod
they strove to alleviate it by a diligent attention
to signs and omens. These, with_extraordinary
visions seen by the enthusiastic, alternately cheered
and depressed them according as they foretold the
triumph.or pictured the reverses of the Cross. A~
one time a violent hurricane arose, leveJling great
TKE CRUSADES.
trees with the ground, and blowing down the tents
ofthe Christian leaders. At another time an earth..
quake shook the camp, and was thought to prognos·
ticate some great impending evil to the cause of
Christendom. But a comet which appeared shortly
afterwards, raised them from the despondency into
whieh they had fallen; their lively imaginations
making it assume the forrn of a flaming cross lead·
ing them on to victory. Famine was not the least
of the evils they endured. Unwholesome food, and
the impure air from the neighbouring marshes, en-
gendered pestilential diseases, which carried them
off more rapidly than the arrow& of the enemy. A
thousand of them died in a day, and it became
at last a matter of extreme difficulty to afford
them burial. To add to their misery, each man
grew suspi~ious of his neighbour ; for the camp
'W'as infested by Turkish epies, who conveyed daily
to the besieged intelligence of the movements and
distresses of the enemy. With a ferocity, engen·
tiered by despair, Bohemund caused two spies,
·whom he had detected, to be roasted alive in pre-
sence of the army, and within sight of the battle•
mente ofAntioch. But even this example failed to
reduce their numbers, and the Turks continued to
be as well informed as the Christians themaelve1
of all that was passing in the camp.
The news of the arrival of a reinforcement of
soldiers from Europe, with an abundant stock bf
provisions, came to cheer them when reduced to
THE CRUSADES. 55
the last extremity. The welcome su.ccour· landed
at St; Simeon, the port of Antioch, and about six
mileB from that city. Thitherwards the famishing
crusaders proceeded in tumultuous bands, followed
by Bohemund and the Count of Toulouse, with
strong detachments of their retainers and vassals,
to escort the supplies in safety to the camp. The
garrison of Antioch, forewarned of this arrival, was
on the alert, and a corps of Turkish archers was
despatched to lie in ambuscade among the moun-
tains and intercept their return. Bohemund, laden
with provisions, was encountered in the rocky passes
by the Turkish host. Great numbers ofhis followers
were slain, and he himself had just time to escape
to the camp with the news of his defeat. Godfrey
of Bouillon, the Duke of Normandy, and the other
leaders had heard the rumour of this battle, and
were at that instant preparing for the rescue. The
army was immediately in motion, animated both by
zeal and ~y hunger, and marched so rapidly as to
intercept the victorious Turks before they had time
to reach Antioch with their spoil. A fierce battle
ensued, which lasted from noon till the going down
of the sun. The Christians gained and maintained
the advantage, each man fighting as if upon himself
alone had depended the fortune of the day.· Hun-
dreds of Turks perished in the Orontes, and more
than two thousand were left dead upon the field
of battle. All the provision was recaptured and
brought in safety to the camp, whither the cru..
56 THE CRUSADES.
saders returned singing .AIIelulia ! or shouting Dew
a4juva I Deus atfjuva !
This relief lasted for some days, and, had it been
duly economized, would have· lasted much longer;
but the chiefs had no authority, and were unable
to exercise any control over its distribution. Fa-
mine again approached with rapid strides, and
Stephen Count of Blois, not liking the prospect,
withdrew from the camp, with four thousand of his
retainers, and established himself at Ale:x.andretta.
The moral influence of this desertion was highly
prejudicial upon those who remained ; and Bohe-
mund, the most impatient and ambitious of the
chiefs, foresaw that, unless speedily checked, it
would lead to the utter failure of the expedition.
It was necessary to act decisively; the army mur-
mured at the length of the si~ge, and the Sultan
was collecting his force~ to crush them. Against
the efforts of the crusaders Antioch might have
held out for months; but treason with~n effected
that, which courage without might have striven for
m vam.
Baghasihan, the Tur'kish Prince or Emir of An-
tioch, had under his command an Armenian of the
name of Phirouz, whom he had intrusted with the
defence of a tower on that part of the city wall
which overlooked the passes of the mountains. Bo-
hemund, by means of a spy who had embraced
the Christian religion, and to whom he had given
his own name at baptism, kept up a daily commu~
THE CRUSADES• 57
• nication with this captain, and made him the most
magnificent promises of reward, if he would deliver
up his post to the Christian knights. Whether the
proposal was first made by Bohemund or by the
Armenian is· uncertain, but that a good under-
standing soon existed between them, is undoubted;
and a night was fixed for the execution of the
project. Bohemund communicated the scheme to
Godfrey and the Count of Toulouse, with the sti-
pulation that, if the city were won, he, as the soul
of the enterprise, should enjoy the dignity ofPrince
of Antioch. The other leaders hesitated : ambition
and jealousy prompted them to refuse their aid in
furthering the views of the intriguer. More ma-
ture consideration decided them to acquiesce, and
seven hundred of the bravest knights were chosen
for the expedition, the real object of which, for fear
of spies, was kept a profound secret from the rest
of the army. When all was ready, a report was.
promulgated, that the seven hundred were in-
tended to form an ambuscade for a division of the
Sultan's army, which was stated to be approaching.
Every thing favoured the treacherous project of
the Armenian captain, who, on his solitary watch-
tower, received due intimation of the approach of
the crusaders. The night was dark and stormy;
not a star was visible above, and the wind howled
80 furiously 88 to overpower. all other sounds : the
J'ain fell in torrents, and the watchers on the towers
adjoining to that of Phirouz could not hear the
TliE CRUSADES.
tramp of the armed knights for the wind, nor see
them for the obscurity of the night and the dismal-
ness of the weather. When within shot of the
walls, Bohemund sent forward an interpreter to
confer with the Armenian. The latter urged them
to make haste, and seize the favourable interval,
as armed men, with lighted torches, patrolled the
battlements every half hour, and at that instant
they had just passed. The chiefs were instantly
at the foot of the wall : Phirouz let down a
rope ; Bohemund attached it to the end of a lad-
der of hides, which was then raised by the Arme-
nian, and held while the knights mounted. A
momentary fear came over the spirits of the adven~
turers, and every one hesitated. At last Bohe-
mund,• encouraged byPhirouz from above, ascended
a few steps on the ladder, and was followed by
Godfrey, Count Robert of Flanders, and a number
ofother knights. As they advanced, others pressed
forward, until thejr weight became too great for
the ladder, which, breaking, precipitated about a
dozen of them to the ground, where they fell one
upon the other, making a great clatter with their
heavy coats of mail. For a moment they thought
that all was lost; but the wind made so loud a
howling as it swept in fierce gusts through the
mountain gorges-and the Orontes, swollen by the
rain, rushed so noisily along-that the guards heard
nothing. The ladder was easily.repaired, and the
• Vide William of Tyre.
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. 69
knights ascended two at a time, and reached the
platform in safety. When sixty of them had thus
ascended, the torch of the coming patrol was seen
to gleam at the angle of the wall. Hiding them-
selves behind a buttress, they awaited his coming in
breathless silence. As soon as he arrived at arm's
length, he was suddenly seized, and, before he could
open his lips to raise an alarm, the silence of
death closed them up for ever. They next de-
scended rapidly the spiral staircase of the tower,
and, opening the portal, admitted the whole of
~heir companions. Raymond of Toulouse, who,
cognizant of the whole plan, had been left behind
with the main body of the army, heard at this
instant the signal horn, which announced that
an entry had been effected, and, leading on his
legions, the town was attacked from within and
without.
Imagination cannot conceive a scene more dread-
ful than that presented by the devoted city of
Antioch on that night of horror. The crusaders
fought with a blind fury, which fanaticism and
suffering alike incited. Men, women, and chil-
dren were indiscriminately slaughtered till the
&treets ran in gore. Darkness incl'eased the de-
struction, for when morning dawned tbe crusaders
found themselves with their swords at the breasts
of their fellow-soldiers, whom they- had mistaken
for foes. The Turkish commander fled, first to
the citadel, and that becoming insecure, to the
60 TUE CRUSADES:·
mountains, whither he was pursued and slain, and
his grey head brought back to Antioch as a trophy~
At daylight the massacre ceased, and the cru-
saders gave themselves up to plunder. They found
gold, and jewels, and silks, and velvets in abun-
dance, but, of provisions, which were of more im-
portance to them, they found but little of any kind.
Corn was excessively scarce~ and tbey·discovered
to their sorrow that in this respect the besieged
had been but little better off than the besiegers..
Before they bad time to instal themselves in
their new position, and take the necessary niea-.
sures for procuring a supply, the city was invested
by the Turks. The Sultan of Persia had raised·
an immense army, which be intmsted to the
command of Kerbogba, the Emir of Mosul, with
instructions to sweep the Chl'istian locusts from
the face of the land. The Emir effected a
junction with Kilij Aslaun, and the two armies
surrounded the city. Discouragement took com-
plete possession of the Christian host, and numbers.
of them contrived to elude the vigilance of the·
besiegers, and escape to Count Stephen of Blois at.
Alexandretta, to whom they related the most exag-·
gerated tales of the misery they had endured, and.
the utter hopelessness of continuing the war. Ste-
phen forthwith broke up his camp and retreated:
towards Constantinople. On his way he was met
by the Emperor Alexius, at the head of a consi-
derable force, hastening to take posse~sion of the:
j 1 ' I
TilE CRUSADES. 61
·.conquests made by the Christians in Asia. As
soon as he heard of.their woeful plight, he turned
back, . and proceeded with the Count of Blois to
Constantinople, leaving the remnant of the cru-
saders to shift for themselves.
The news of this defection increased the discou-
ragement at Antioch. All the useless horses of the
army had been slain and eaten, and dogs, cats, and
rats were sold at enormous prices. Even vermin
were becoming scarce. With increasing famine
came a pestilence, so that in a short time but sixty
thousand remained of the three hundred thousand
that had originally invested Antioch. But this
bitter extremity, while it annihilated the energy
of the host, only served to knit the leaders more
firmly together; and Bohemund, Godfrey, and Tan-
cred swore never to desert the cause as long as life
-lasted. The former strove in vain to reanimate
the courage of his followers. They were weary
and sick at heart, and his menaces and promises
were alike thrown away: Some of them had shut
themselves up in the houses, and refused to come
forth. Bohemund, to drive them to their duty,
set fire to the whole quarter, and many of them
·perished in the flames, while the rest of the army
looked on with the utmost indifference. Bohe-
mund, animated himself by a worldly spirit, did
not know the true character of the crusaders,
nor understand the religious madness.which had
brought them in such shoals from Europe. A
6i THE CRUSADES.
priest, more clear-sighted, devised a scheme which
restored all their confidence, and inspired them
with a courage so wonderful as to make the poor
sixty thousand emaciated, sick, and starving zea-
lots, put to flight the well-fed and six times 88
numerous legions of the Sultan of Persia.
This priest, a native of Provence, was named
Peter Barthelemy, and whether he were a kn11ve
or an enthusiast, or both ; a principal, or a tool
in the hands of others, will ever remain a matter
of doubt. Certain it is, however, that he was the
meaus of raising the siege of Antioch, and causing
the eventual triumph of the armies of the Cross.
When the strength of the crusaders was completely
broken by their sufferings, and hope had fled from
every bosom, Peter came to Count Raymond of
Toulouse, and demanded an interview on matters
of serious moment. . He was immediately admit-
ted. He said that, some weeks previously, at
the time the Christians were besieging Antioch.
he was reposing alone hi his tent, when he was
startled by the shock of the earthquake, which had
so alarmed the whole host. Through violent terror
of the shock he could only ejaculate, God help me!
when turning round he saw two men standing be-
.fore him, whom he at once recognized by the halo
of glory around them as beings of another world.
One of them appeared ·to be an aged man, with
reddish hair sprinkled with grey, black eyes, and a
TilE CRUSADES. 63
long flowing grey heard. The other was younger,
larger, and handsomer, and had something more
divine in his aspect. The elderly man alone spoke,
and informea him that be was the Holy Apostle
St.Andrew, and desired him to seek out the Count
Raymond, the Bishop of Puy, and Raymond of
Altopulto, and ask them why the Bishop did not
exhort the people, and sign them with the cross
which he bore. The Apostle then took him, naked
in his shirt as he was, and transported him through
the air into the heart of the city of Antioch, where
he led him into the church of St. Peter, at that
time a Saracen mosque. The Apostle made him
stop by the pillar close to the steps by which they
ascend on the south side to the altar, where hung
two lamps, which gave out a light brighter than
that of the noonday sun; the younger man, whom
be did not at that time know, standing afar off,
near the steps of the altar. The Apostle then
descended into the ground and brought up a lance,
which he gave into his hand, telling him that it
was the very lance that had opened the side
whence had flowed the salvation of the world.
With tears of joy he held the holy lance, and
implored the Apostle to allow him to take it away
and deliver it into the hands of Count Raymond.
The Apostle refused, and buried the lance again
in the ground, commanding him, when the city
was won from the infidels, to go with twelve chosen
64 THE CRUSADES.
men, and dig it up again in the same place. The
Apostle then transported him back to his tent, and
the two vanished from his sight. He had neglected,
be said, to deliver this message, afraid that his
wonderful tale would not obtain credence from men
of such high rank. After some days he again saw
~he holy vision, as be was gone out of the camp to
look for food. This time the divine eyes of the
younger looked reproachfully upon him. He im-
plored the Apostle to choose some one else more
fitted for the mission, but the Apostle refused, and
smote him with a disorder of the eyes, as a punish-
ment for his disobedience. With an obstinacy un-
accountable even to himself, he bad still delayed.
A third time the Apostle and his companion had
appeared to him, as he was in a tent with his
master 'Villiam at St. Simeon. On that occasion
St. Andrew told him to bear his command to
the Count of Toulouse not to bathe in the waters
of the Jordan when he came to it, but to cross
over in a boat, clad in a shirt and breeches of linen,
which he should sprinkle with the sacred waters of
the river. These clothes he was afterwards to pre-
serve along with the holy lance. His master Wil-
liam, although he could not see the saint, distinctly
heard the voice giving orders to that effect. Again
he neglected to execute the commission, and again
the saints appeared to him, when he was at the
port of Mamistra, about. to sail for Cyprus, and
St. Andrew threatened him with eternal perdition
THE CRUSADES'. 65
if be refused longer. Upon this he made up his
mind to divulge all that had been revealed to him.
The ·Count of Toulouse, who, in all probability,
concocted this precious tale with the priest, ap-
peared ·struck with the recital, and sent imme-
diately for the Bishop of Puy and Raymond of
Altapulto. The Bishop at once expressed his dis-
belief of the whole story, and refused to have
anything to do in the matter. The Count of
Toulouse, on the contrary, saw abundant motives,
if not for believing, for pretending to believe ;
and, in the end, he so impressed upon the mind
of the Bishop the advantage that might be de-
Tived from it, in working up the popular mind to
its former excitement, that the latter reluctantly
agreed to make search in due form for the holy
weapon. The day aftel' the morrow was fixed upon
for the ceremony, and, in the mean time, Peter was
consigned to the care of Raymond, the Count's
chaplain, in order that no profane curiosity might
have an opportunity of cross-examining him, and
putting him to a nonplus.
Twelve devout men were fortl1with chosen for
the undertaking, among whom were the Count of
Toulouse and his chaplain. They began digging
at sunrise, and continued unwearied till near sun-
set~ without finding the lance ;-they might have
dug till this day with no better success, had not
Peter himself sprung into the pit, praying to
God to bring the lance to light, for the strength-
VOL. n. F
j 1 ' I
66 THE CRUSADES.
ening and victory of his people. Those who bide
know where to find; and so it was with Peter, for
bo~b he alld the lance found theu way into the
hole at the aame time. On a sudden, be and Ray..
mond, the chaplain, beheld its point in the earth,
and Raymond, drawing it forth, kissed it with
tears of joy, in sight of the multitude which had
assembled in the church. It l'fP ·immediately en-
veloped in a rich purple cloth, already prepared
to rece.ive it, and exhibited in this state to the
faithful, wbo made the building resound with their
shout~ of gladness.
Peter had another vision the same night, and
'became from that day forth " d·reamer of dreams,•
in general, to the army. He stated on the follow-
ing day, that the Apostle Andrew and _
u the y.ou.tb
with the divia.e aspect" appeared to him again, and
directed that •he Count of Toulouse, as a reward
for his persevering piety, should carry the Holy
Lance at the bead of the army, and that the day on
which it was found should be observed as a solemn
festival throughout Christendom. St. Andrew sho.w-
ed him, at the same time, the holes in the feet
and hands of his benign companion ; and he be-
came convinced that he stood in the awful presence
of THE REDEEMER.
Peter gained so much credit by his visions that
dreaming became contagious. Other monks beside
himself were visited by the saints, who promised
victory to the bost if it would valiantly hold out
THE CRQSADES:
to the last, and crowns of ete.rnal glory to those·
who fell in the fight. Two deserters, wearied of·
the fatigues and privations of the war, who had
stealthily left the camp, suddenly returned, and
seeking Bobemund, told him that they had been
met by two apparitions, who, with great anger,
had commanded them to return. The one of them
said, that he recognized his brother, who had beetJ
killed in battle some months before, and that be
had a halo of glory around his head. The other1 •
still moTe hardy, asserted that the apparition which
bad spoken to him. was the Saviour himself, who
bad promised eternal happiness as his reward if
he returned to his duty, but the pains of eternal
fire if be rejected the cross. No one thought of
disbelieving these men. The courage of the army
immediately revived; despondency gave way to
hope ; every arm grew strong again, and the pangs
of hunger were for a time disregarded. The en~
thusiasm which had led them from Europe burned
forth once more as brightly as ever, and they de..
manded, with loud cries, to be led against. the
enemy. The leaders were not unwilling. In a bat-
tle lay their only chance of salvation; and although
Godfrey, Bohemund, and Tancred received the
story of the lance with much suspicion, they were
too wise to throw discredit upon an imposture
which bade fair to open the gates of victory.
Peter the Hennit was previously sent to the
camp of Kerbogha to propose that the quarrel be·
F~
68 THE CRUSADES.
tween the two religions should be decided by a
chosen number of the bravest soldiers ofeach army.
Kerbogha turned from him with a look of con~
tempt, and said he could agree to no proposals
from a set of such miserable beggars and robbers.
With this uncourteous answer Peter returned to
Antioch. Preparations were immediately com-
menced for an attack upon the enemy: ·the latter
continued to be perfectly well informed of all the
proceedings of the Christian camp. The citadel
of Antioch, which remained in their pQss~ssion,.
overlooked the town, and the commander of the
fortress could distinctly see all that was passing
within. On the morning of the 28th of June 1098
a black Bag, hoisted from its highest tower, an-
nounced to the besieging army that the Christians
were about to sally forth.
The Moslem leaders knew the sad inroads that
famine and disease had made upon the numbers of
the foe : they knew that not above two hundred-of
the knights had horses to ride upon, and that the
foot soldiers were sick and emaciated ; but they did
not know the almost incredible valour which super-
stition bad infused into their hearts. The story of
the lance they treated with the most supreme con·
tempt, and, secure of an easy victory; they gave,
themselves no trouble in preparing for the on-
slaught. It is related that Kerbogha was playing
a game at chess, when the black Bag on the citadel
gave warning of the enemy's approach, and that,
l'HE CRUSADES. 69
''With true oriental coolness, he insisted upon .finish-
ing the game ere he bestowed any of his attention
upon a foe so unworthy. The defeat of his ad..
vanced post of two thousand men aroused him from
his apathy.
The crusaders, after this first victory, advanced
joyfully towards the mountains, hoping to draw the
Turks to a place where their cavalry would be un·
able to manceuvre. Their spirits were light and
their courage high, as led on by the Duke of Nor-
mandy, Count Robert of Flanders, and Hugh of
Vermandois, they came within sight of the splendid
camp of the enemy. Godfrey of Bouillon and Ad..
hemar, Bishop of Puy, followed immediately after
these leaders, the latter clad in complete armour;
and bearing the Holy Lance within sight of the
whole army: Bohemund and Tancred brought up
the rear.
Kerbogha, aware at last that his enemy was not
so despicable, took vigorous measures to remedy
his mistake, and, preparing himself to meet the
Christians in front, be despatched the Sultan Soli·
'man, of Roum, to attack them in the· rear. To
conceal this movement, he set fire to the dried
weeds and grass with which the ground was covered,
and Soliman, taking a wide circuit with his cavalry,
succeeded, under cover of the smoke, in making
good his position in the rear. The battle raged
furiously in front; the arrows of the Turks fell
thick as hail, and their well-trained squadrons trod
( j 1 )o I
70 111E CRUSADES.
the crusaders under their hoofs like stubble. Still
*he affray was doubtful; for the Christia1;1s had the
advantage of the ground, .and were rapidly gaining
ppon tl1e enemy• when the overwhelming forces of
Soliman arrived in the rear. Godfrey and Tancred
flew to the rescue of Bobemund, spreading dismay
in the Turkish ranks by their fierce impetuosity.
The Bishop of Puy was left almost alone with the
Provenc;:als to oppose the legions commanded by
Kerbogha in person; but the presence of the Holy
Lance made a hero of the meanest soldier in his
tr~in. Still, however, the numbers of the enemy
seemed interminable. The Christians, attacked on
~very side, began at last to give way, and the Turka
:p1ade sure of victory.
~t this moment a cry was raised in the Christian
~ost that the saints were fighting on their side.
The battle-field was clear of the smoke from the
purning weeds, which had curled away, and hung
i~ white clouds of fantastic shape on the brow of
~he distant mountains. Some imaginative zealot,
.seeing this dimly through the dust of the battle,
called out to his fellows, to look at the army of
1aints, clothed in white, and riding upon white
porses, that were pouring over the hills to the res-
~me. All eyes were immediately turned to the dis·
tant smoke ; faith was in every heart ; and the old
pattie-cry, God 'ltJ
il/s itI God wills it! resounded
through the field, as every soldier, believing that
~od w~~ visi~ly sending His armies to his aid, fought
THE CRUSADES. 71
-
with an energy unfelt before. A panic seized tha
Persian and Turkish hosts, and they gave way in
all directions. In vain Kerbogha tried to rally
them. Fear i11 more contagious than enthusiasm.
and they fled over the mountains like deer pursued
by the hounds. The two leaders, seeing the useless-
ness offurther efforts, fled with the rest; and that
immense army was scattered over Palestine, leaving
nearly seventy thousand of its dead upon the field
of battle.
Their magnificent camp fell into the bands of
the enemy, with its rich stores of corn, and its
droves of sheep and oxen. Jewels, gold, and rich
velvets in abundance were distributed among the
army. Tancred followed the fugitives over the
hills, and reaped as much plun.der as those who had
~ remained in the camp. The way, as tbey fled..
was covered with valuables, ahd hc)rses of the fines~
breed of Arabia became so plentiful, that every
knight of the Christians was proYided with a steed.
The crusaders, in this battle, acknowledge to have
lost nearly ten thousand men.
Their return to Antioch was one of joy indeed :
the citadel was surrendered at once, and many of
the Turkish garrison embraced the Christian faith,
and the rest were suffered to depart. A solemn
thanksgiving was offered up by the Bishop of Puy,
in which the whole army"joined, and the Holy Lance
was visited by every soldier.
The enthusiasm lasted for some dnys, and the
THE CRUSADES.
'
army loudly demanded to be led forward to Jern-
salem, the grand goal of all their wishes : but none
of their leaders was anxious to move ;-the more
prudent amongthem, such as Godfrey and Tancred,
for reasons of ~xpediency ; and the more a~bitious,
such as the Count of Toulouse and Bohemund, for
reasons of self-interest. Violent dissensions sprang
up again between aU the chiefs. Raymond of Tou-
louse, who was left at Antioch to guard the town,
bad summoned the citadel to surrender, as soon as
he saw that there was no fear of any attack upon
the part of the Persians; and the other chiefs
found, upon their return, his banner waving on its
walls. This had given great offence to Bohemund;
who had stipulated the principality ofAntioch as his
reward for winning the town in the first instance.
Godfrey and Tancred supported his claim, and,
after a great deal of bickering, the flag ofRaymond
was lowered from the tower, and that of Bobe-
mund hoisted in its stead, who assumed from that
time the title of Prince of Antioch. Raymond,
however, persisted in retaining possession of one of
the city gates and its adjacent towers, which be
held for several months, to the great annoyance
of Bobemund and the scandal of the army. The
Count became in consequence extremely unpopular,
although his ambition was not a whit more un-
reasonable than that of Bohemund himself, nor o£
Baldwin, who had taken up his quarters at Edessa,
THE CRUSADES. 78
where he exercised the functions of :petty sove-
reign.
The fate of Peter Barthelemy deserves to be re...
corded. Honours and consideration had come thick
upon him after the affair of the lance, and he
consequently felt bound in conscience to continue
the dreams which had made him a personage of so
much importance. The mischief of it was, that
like many other liars he had a very bad memory,
and he contrived to make his dreams eontradict.,
each other in the most palpable manner. St. John
one night appeared to him, and toLd one tale,
while, a week after, St. Paul told a totally different
story, and held out hopes quite incompatible with
those of his apostolic brother. The credulity of
that age had a wide maw, and Peter's visions must
have been absurd and outrageous indeed, when the
very men who had believed in the lance refused
to swallow any more of his wonders. Bohemund
at last, for the purpose of annoying the Count of
Toulouse, challenged poor Peter to prove the truth
of his story of.the lance by the fiery ordeal. Peter
could not refuse a trial so common in that age,
and being besides encouraged by the Count and
his chaplain, Raymond, an early day was appointed
for the ceremony. The previous night wa& spent
in prayer and fasting. according to custom, and
Peter came forth in the morning bearing the lance
in his hand, and walked boldly up to the fire.. The
74 THE CRUSADE~
whole armygathered round, impatient for the re-
sult, many thousands still believing that the lance
was genuine and Peter a holy man. Prayers hav-
ing been said by -Raymond d,Agilles, Peter walked
into the flames, and bad got nearly through, when
pain caused him to lose his presence of mind : the
heat too affected his eyes, and, in his anguish, be
turned round unwittingly, and passed through the
ftre again, instead of stepping out of it, as he should
have done. The result was, that be was burned so
severely,.that he never recovered, and, after linger-
ing for some days, he expired in great agony.
Most of the soldiers were suffering either from
wounds, disease, or weariness, and it was resolved
by Godfrey,-
· the tacitly acknowledged chief of the
enterprize,-that the army should have time to re-
fresh itself ere they advanced upon Jerusalem. It
was now July, and he proposed that they should
pass the hot months of August and September
within the walls of Antioch, and march forward
in October with renewed vigour, and numbers in-
creased by fresh arrivals from Europe. This ad.
vice was finally adopted, although the enthusiasts
of the _
army continued to murmur at the delay. In
the mean time the Count of Vermandois was sent
upon an embassy to the Emperor Alexius at Con-
stantinople, to reproach him for his base desertion
of the cause, and urge him to send the reinforce•
ments . he had promised. The Count faithfully
executed his mission, (of which, by the way, Alex-
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. 75
ius took no notice whatever,) and :emained for
some time at Constantinople, till his zeal# never
'fery violent, totally evaporated. He then returned
to France, sick of the Crusade, and determined
to intermeddle with it no more.
The chiefs, though they had.determined to stay
at Antioch for two months, could not remain quiet
for so long a time. They would, in all probability,
have fallen upon each other, had there been no
Turks in Palestine upon whom they might vent
their impetuosity. Godfrey proceeded to Edessa,
to aid his brother Baldwin in expelling the Sar~
cens from his principality, and the other leaders
carried on separate hostilities against them as ca-
price or ambition dictated. At length the impa-
tience of the army to be led against Jerusalem
became so great that the chiefs could no longer
delay, and Raymond, Tancred, and Robert of Nor.
mandy marched forward with their divisions, and
laid siege to the small but strong town of Marah.
With their usual improvidence, they had not food
enough to last a beleaguering army for a week.
They suffered great privations in consequence, till
Bohemund came to their aid and took th~ town
by storm. In connexion with this siege, the chro·
nicler, Raymond d'Agilles, (the same Raymond,
the chaplain, who figured in the affair of the Holy
Lance,) re)ates a legend, in the truth ofwhich he de-
voutly believed, and upon which Tasso has foundeq
one of the most beautiful passages of his. poem_, It
j 1 ' I
76 THE CRUSADES.
'
is worth preserving, as showing the spirit of the
age and the source oi the extraordinary courage
manifested by the crusaders on occasions of ex-
treme difficulty. "One day," says Raymond, "An..
selme de Ribeaumont beheld young Engelrani, the
son of the Count de St. Paul, who had been killed
at Marah, enter his tent. ~ How is it,' said An..
selme to ·him, 1
that you, whom I saw lying dead
on the field of battle, are full of life 1'-' You must
know,' replied Engelram, 'that those who fight for
Jesus Christ never die.'-' But whence,' resumed
Anselme, 1
comes that strange brightness that sur..
rounds your Upon this Engelram pointed to the
sky, where Anselme saw a palace of diamond and
crystal. 'It is thence,' said he, 'that I derive
the beauty which surprises you. My dwelling is
there ; a still finer one is prepared,for you, and
you shall soon come to inhabit it. Farewell! we
shall meet again to-morrow.' With these words
Engelram returned to heaven. Anselme~ struck by
the vision, sent the next morning for the priests, re-
ceived the sacrament; and although full ofhealth,
took a last farewell of all his friends, telling
them that he was about to leave this world. A
few hours afterwards, the enemy having made a
sortie, Anselme went out against them sword in
hand, and was struck on the forehead by a stone
f:rom a Turkish sling, which sent him to heaven.
to the beautiful palace that was prepared ior him."
New disputes arose between the Prince of An..
THE CRUSADES. 77
tlocb and the Count of Toulouse with regard to
th~ capture of this town, which were with the ut-
most difficulty appeased by the other chiefs. De-
lays also took place in the progress of the army,
especially before Archas, and the soldiery were so
exasperated that they were on the point of choos-
ing new leaders to conduct them to Jerusalem.
Godfrey, upon this, set fire to his camp at Archas,
and marched forward. He was immediately joined
by hundreds of the Proven~als of the Count of
Toulouse. The latter, seeing the turn affairs were
taking, hastened after them, and the whole host pro-
ceeded towards the holy city, so long desired amid
sorrow, and suffering, and danger. At Emmaus they
were met by a deputation from the Christians of
Bethlehem, praying for immediate aid against the
'Oppression of the infidels. The very name of Beth-
lehem, the birthplace of the Saviour, was music
to their ears, and many of them wept with joy to
think they were approaching a spot so hallowed.
Albert of Aix informs us that their hearts were
so touched that sleep was banished from the camp,
and that, instead of waiting till the morning's
dawn to recommence their march, they set out
shortly after midnight, full of hope and enthusiasm.
For upwards of four hours the mail-clad legions
tramped steadfastly forward in the dark, and when
the sun arose in unclouded splendour,. the towers
and pinnacles of Jerusalem gleamed upon their
sight. All the tender feelings of their nature were
7S THE CRUSADES.-
touched; no longer brutal fanatics,. but meek and'
humble pilgrims, they knelt down ·upon the sod,
and with tears in their eyes~ exclaimed to one
another, ~•Je1·usalem! Jerusalem!" Some of them
kissed the holy ground, others stretched themselves
at full length upon it, in order that their bodies
might come in contact with the greatest possible
extent of it, and others prayed aloud. The women
and children who had followed the camp from
Europe, and shared in all its dangers, fatigues,
and privations, were more boisterous in their joy;
the former from long:nourished enthusiasm, and
the latter from mere imitation,* and prayed, and
wept, and laughed till they almost put the more
$Ober to the blush.
The first ebullition of their gladness having sub-
sided, the army marched forward, and invested the
city on all sides. The assault was almost imme·
diately begun; but after the Christians bad loet
some of their bravest knights, that mode of attack
was abandoned, and the army commenced its pre·
* Guibert de Nogent relates a curiQ\1.8 instance ofthe imitative-
ness of these juvenile Cl'lll!aders. He says that, during the siege of
Antioch~ ihe Christian and Saracen boys used to issue forth every
evening from the town and camp in great nwnbers under the oom·
mand of captains chosen from among tbemiJelves. A%1Iled wita
sticks instead of swords, and stones instead ofarrow11, they mnged
themselvea in battle order, and shouting each the war-cry oftheir
country, fought with the utmoet desperation. Some of tb~m loat
their eyes, and manybecame cripples for life from tJte injuries they
received on these occasions.
THE CRUSADES..
parations for a regular siege. Mangonels, moveable
towers, and battering rams, together with a ma-
chine called a sow, made of wood, and covered
with raw hides.. inside of which miners worked to
undermine thta waUs, were forthwith constructed;
and to restore. the courage and discipline of the
army, which had suffered from the unworthy dis-
sensions of the chiefs, the latter held out the band
of friendship to each other, and Tancred and the
Count of Toulouse embraced in sight of the whole
eamp. The clergy aided the cause with their
powerful voice, and preached union and goodwill
to the highest and the lowest. A solemn proces-
sion was also ordered round the city, in which the
entire army joined, prayers being offered up at
every spot which gospel records had taught them
to consider as peculiarly sacred.
The Saracens upon the ramparts beheld· aU
these manifestations without alarm. To incense
the Christians, whom they despised, they con-
structed rude crosses, and fixed them upon the
walls, and spat upon and pelted them with dirt and
sto11es. This insolt to the symbol of their faith
raised the wrath of the crusaders to that height
that bravery became ferocity and enthusiasm mad..
ness. When all the engines of war were completed.
the attack was recommenced, and every soldier of
the Christian army fought with a vigour which the
sense of private wrong invariably inspires. ETery
man bad been personally outraged, and the knights
80 THE CRUSADES.
worked at the battering-rams with as much readi-
ness as the meanest soldiers. The Saracen arrows
and balls of fire fell thick and fast among them~>
but the tremendous rams still heaved against the
walls, while the best marksmen of.the host were
busily employed in the several floors of the move-
able towers in dealing death among the Turks
upon the battlements. Godfrey, Raymond, Tan-
cred, and Robert of Normandy, each upon his
tower, fought for hours with unwearied energy.
often repulsed, but ever ready to renew the strug-
gle. The Turks, no longer despising the enemy,
defended themselves with the utmost skill and
bravery till darkness brought a cessation o! hos-
tilities. Short was the sleep that night in the
Christian camp. The priests offered up solemn
prayers in the midst of the attentive soldiery fot
the triumph of the Cross in this last great struggle,
and as soon as morning dawned every one was in
readiness for the affray. The women and children
lent their aid, the latter running unconcerned to
and fro while the arrows fell fast around them,
bearing water to the thirsty combatants. . The
saints were believed to be aiding their efforts, and
the army, impressed with this idea, surmounted dif-
-nculties under which a force thrice as numerous,
but without their faith, would have quailed and-
been defeated. Raymond of Toulouse at last forced
his way into the city by escalade, while at the very
same moment Tancred and Robert of Normandy:
THE CRUSADES. 81
succeeded in bursting open one of the gates. The
Turks flew to repair the mischief, and Godfrey of
Bouillon, seeing the battlements comparatively de-
serted, ltt down the drawbridge of his .moveable
tower, and sprang forward, followed by all the
knights of his train. In an instant after, the ban-
ner of the Cross· floated upon the walls of Jeru-
salem. The crusaders, raising once more their
redoubtable war-cry, rushed on from every side,
and the city was taken. The battle raged in the
streets for seveul hours, and the Christians, re-
membering their insulted ·faith, gave no quarter
to young or old, male or female, sick or strong.
Not one of the leaders thought himself at liberty
to issue orders fo: staying the car93ge, and if he
bad, he·would not have been obeyed. The Sara-
cens fled in great numbers to the mosque of So-
liman, but they had not time to fortify themselves
within it ere the Christiaus were upon them. Ten
thousand persons are said to have perished in that
building alone.
. Peter the Hermit, who had remained so long
under the veil of neglect, was repaid that day for
all his zeal and all his sufferings. As soon as the
battle was over, the Christians of Jerusalem issued
forth from their hiding-places to welcome their
deliverers. They instantly recognized the Hermit
as the pilgrim who, years before, had spoken to
them so eloquently of the wrongs and insults they
had endured, and promised to stir up the princes·
VOL. II. G
l I I )o I
8! TUE CRUSADES.
and people of Europe in their behalf. They clung
to the skirts of his garments in the fervour of their
gratitude, and vowed to remember him for ever in
their prayers. Many of them shed tears about
his neck, and attributed the deliverance of Jerusa-
lem solely to his courage and perseverance. Peter
afterwards held some ecclesiastical office in the
'Holy City, but what it was, or what was his ulti-
mate fate, history has forgotten to inform us. Some
aay that he returned to France and founded a
monastery, but the story does not rest upon suffi-
cient authority.
The grand abject for which the popular swarms
of Europe had forsaken their homes was now ac-
complished. The Moslem mosques of Jerusalem
were converted into churches for a purer faith, and
the mount of Calvary and the sepulchre of Christ
were profaned no longer by the presence or the
power of the infidel. Popular frenzy had fulfilled
its mission, and, as a natural consequence, it began
to subside from that time forth. The news of the
capture of Jerusalem brought numbers of pilgrims
from Europe, and, among others, Stephen Count of
Chartres and Hugh of Vermandois, to atone for
their desertion; but nothing like the former enthu-
siasm existed among the nations.
Thus then ends the history of the first Crusade.
For the better understanding of the second, it will
be necessary to describe the interval between them,
and to enter into a slight sketch of the history of
THE CRUSADES. 8S
Jerusalem under its I..atin kings, the long and
fruitless wars they continued to wage with the
unvanquisbed Saracens, and the poor and misera-
ble results which sprang from so vast an expendi·
ture of zeal, and so deplorable a waste of human
life.
The necessity of having some recognized chief
was soon felt by the crusaders, and Godfrey de
Bouillon, less ambitious than Bohemund, or Ray.
mond of Toulouse, gave his eold consent to wield
a sceptre which the latter chiefs would have clutch..
ed with eagerness. He was hardly invested with
the royal mantle before the Saracens menaced his
capital. With much vigour and judgment he ex..
erted himself to follow up the advantages he had
gained, and marching out to meet the enemy be.
fore they had ti'tne to besiege him in Jerusalem,
he gave them battle at Ascalqn, and defeated them
with great loss. He did not, however, live long
to enjoy his new dignity, ht:ling seized with a fatal
illness when he had only reigned nine months.
To him succeeded his brother, Baldwin of Edessa.
The latter monarch did much to improve tbe. con-
dition of Jerusalem and to extend its territory, but
was not able to make a firm footing for his suc-
cessors. For fifty years, in which the history of
Jerusalem is full of interest to the historical stu.
dent, the crusaders were exposed to fierce and
constant hostilities, often gaining battles and terri-
tory, and as often losing them, but becoming every
o2
THE CRUSADES.
day weaker and more divided, whi1e the Saracens
became stronger and more united to harass and
root them out. The battles of this period were of
the most chivalrous character, and deeds of heroism
were done by the handful of brave knights that re-
mained in Syria, which have hardly their parallel
in the annals of war. In the course of time, how-
ever, the Christians could not avoid feeling some
respect for the courage, and admiration for the
polished manners and advanced civilization of the
Saracens, so much superior to the rudeness and
semi-barbarism of Europe at that day. DifFerence
of faith did not prevent them from forming alli-
imces with the dark-eyed maidens of the East.
One of the first to set the example of taking a
Paynim spouse was King Baldwin himself, and these
connexions in time became, not only frequent, but
almost universal, among such of the knights as
had resolved to spend their lives in Palestine.
These Eastern ladies were obliged, however, to
submit to the ceremony of baptism before they
could be received to the arms of a Christian lord.
These, and their ofFspring, naturally looked upon
the Saracens with less hatred than did the zealots
who conquered Jerusalem, and who thought it a
sin deserving the wrath of God to spare an un..
believer. We find, in consequence, that the most
obstinate battles waged during the reigns of the
later Kings of Jerusalem were fought by the new
and raw levies who from time to time arrived from
( I I )o I
TH.E CRUSADES. 85
Europe, lured by the hope of glory, or spurred by
fanaticism. The latter broke without scruple the
truces established between the original settlers and
the Saracens, and drew down severe retaliation
upon many thousands of their brethren in the faith,
whose prudence was stronger than their zeal, and
whose chief desire was to live in peace.
Things remained in this unsatisfactory state till
the close of the year 1145, when Edessa, the strong
frontier town of the Christian kingdom, fell into
the hands of the Saracens. The latter were com-
manded by Zenghi, a powerful and enterprising
monarch, and, after his death, by his son Nourhed-
din, as powerful and enterprising as his father.
An unsuccessful attempt was made by the Count
of Edessa to regain the fortress, but Nourheddin,
with a large army, came to the rescue, and after
defeating the Count with great slaughter, marched
into Edessa and caused its fortifications to be
rased to the ground, that the town might never
more be a bulwark of defence for the kingdom
of Jerusalem. The road to the capital was now
open, and consternation seized the hearts of the
Christians. Nourheddin, it was known, was only
waiting for a favourable opportunity to advance
upon Jerusalem, and the armies of the Cross, weak-
ened and divided, were not in a condition to make
any available resistance. The clergy were tiUed
with grief and alarm, and wrote repeated letter~ to
the Pope and the sovereigns of Europe, urging the
86 TilE CRUSADES.
expediency of a new Crusade for the relief of Je-
rusalem. By far the greater number of the priests
of Palestine were natives of France, and these na-
·turally looked first to their own country. The
solicitations they sent to Louis the Seventh were
urgent and oft repeated, and the chivalry of France
began to talk once more of arming in the defence
of the birthplace of Jesus. The kings of Europe,
whose interest it had not been to take any part
in the first Crusade, began to bestir themselves
in this; and a man appeared, eloquent as Peter
the Hermit, to arouse the people as he had done.
We find, however, that the enthusiasm of the
second did not equal that of the first Crusade: in
fact, the mania had reached its climax in the time
of Peter the Hermit, and decreased regularly from
that period. The third Crusade was less general
than the second, and the fourth than the third, and
so on, until the public enthusiasm was quite extinct,
and Jerusalem returned at last to the dominion of
its old masters without a convulsion in Christendom.
Various reasons have been assigned for this ; and
one very generally put forward is, that Europe was
wearied with continued struggles, and had become
sick of~~ precipitating itselfupon Asia." M. Guizot,
in his admirable lectures upon European civiliza-
tion, successfully combats this opinion, and offers
one of his own, which is far more satisfactory. He
says, in his eighth lecture, "It has been often
repeated, that Europe was tired of continually
I I \ I
TRE CRUSADES. 87
invading Asia. This expression appears . to me
exceedingly incorrect. It is not possible that hu-
man beings can be wearied with what they have
not done-that the labours of their f(}refathers can
fatigue them. Weariness is a personal, not an in-
herited feeling. The men of the thirteenth century
were not fatigued by the Crusades of the twelfth.
They were influenced by another cause. A great
change had taken place in ideas, sentiments, and
social conditions. The same desires and the same
wants were no longer felt. The same things were
no longer believed. The people refused to believe
what their ancestors were persuaded of."
This is, in fact, the secret of the change ; and
its truth becomes more apparent as we advance in
the history of the Crusades, and compare the state
of the public mind at the different periods when
Godfrey of Bouillon, Louis VII. and Richard I.
were chiefs and leaders of the movement. The
Crusades themselves were the means of operating a
great change in national ideas, and advancing the
civilization of Europe. In the time of Godfrey, the
nobles were all-powerful and all-oppressive, and
equally obnoxious to kings and people. During
their absence along with that portion of the com-
munity the deepest sunk in ignorance and super-
stition, both kings and people fortified themselves
against the renewal of aristocratic tyranny, and in
proportion as they became free, became civliized.
It was during this period that in France, the grand
j 1 ' I
88 THE CRUSADES.
centre of the crusading madness, the communes be-
gan to acquire strength, and the monarch to possess
a tangible and not a merely theoretic authority.
Order and comfort began to take root, and, when
the second Crusade was preached, men were in con-
sequence much less willing to abandon their homes
than they had been during the first. Such pilgrims
as bad returned from the Holy Land came back
with minds more liberal and expanded than when
they set out. They had come in contact with a
people more civilized than themselves ; they had
seen something more of the world, and bd lost
some portion, however small, of the prejudice and
bigotry of ignorance. The institution of chivalry
had also exercised its humanizing influence, and
coming bright and fresh through the ordeal of the
Crusades, had softened the character and improved
the hearts ofthe aristocratic otder. The T~ouveru
and Troubadours, singing of love and war in strains
pleasing to every class of society, helped to root
out the gloomy superstitions which, at the first
Crusade, filled the minds of all those who were
able to think. Men became in consequence less
exclusively under the mental thraldom of the priest-
hood, and lost much of the credulity which former-
ly distinguished them.
The Crusades appear never to have excited so
much attention in England as on the continent of
Europe ; not because the people were less fana-
tical than their neighbours, but because they were
j l \
THE CRUSADES. 89
occupied in matters of graver interest. 'fhe Eng-
lish were suffering too severely from the recent suc-
cessful invasion of their soil, to have much sympa-
thy to bestow upon the distresses of people so far
away as the Christians of Palestine ; and we find
that they took no part in the first Crusade, and
very little in the second. Even then those who en-
gaged in it were chiefly Norman knights and their
vassals, and not the Saxon franklins and popula-
tion, who no doubt thought, in their sorrow, as
many wise men have thought since, that charity
should begin at home.
Germany was productive of more zeal in the
cause, and her raw, uncivilized hordes continued to
issue forth under the banners of the Cross in num-
bers apparently undiminished, when the enthusiasm
had long been on the wane in other countries.
They were sunk at that time in a deeper slough of
barbarism than the livelier nations around them,
and took, in consequence, a longer period to free
themselves from their prejudices. In fact, the
second Crusade drew its chiefsupplies of men from
that quarter, where alone the expedition can be
said to have retained any portion of popularity.
Such was the state of the mind of Europe when
Pope Eugenius, moved by the reiterated entreaties
of the Christians of Syria, commissioned St. Ber-
nard to preach a new crusade. St. Bernard was a
man eminently qualified for the mission. He was
endowed with an eloquence of the highest order,
90 THE CllUSAD.ES.
could move an auditory to tears, or laughter, or
fury, as it pleased him, and had Jed a life of such
rigid and self-denying virtue, that not even calumny
could lift her finger and point it at him. He had
renounced high prospects in the church, and con-
te.nted himself with the simple abbacy of Clairvaux,
in order that he might have the leisure he desired,
to raise his powerful voice against abuses wherever
he found them. Vice met in him an austere and
uncompromising reprover; no man was too high
for his reproach, and none too low for his sym-
pathy. He was just as well suited for his age as
Peter the Hermit had been for the age preceding.
He appealed more to the reason, his predecessor
to the passions ; Peter the Hermit collected a mob,
while St. Bernard collected an army. Both were
endowed with equal zeal and perseverance, spring-
ing, in the one, from impulse, and in the other
from conviction, and a desire to increase the in-
fluence of the. church, that great body of which
he was a pillar and an ornament.
One of the first converts he made was in himself
a host. Louis VII. was both superstitious and
tyrannical, and, in a fit ofremorse for the infamous
slaughter he bad authorised at the sacking ofVitry,
he made a vow to undertake the journey to the
Holy Land.• He was in this disposition when
• The sacking of Vitry reflects indelible disgrace upon Louis
VH. His predecessors had been long engaged in resistance to the
outl'Sgeous powen assumed by the Popes, and Louis continued
THE CRUSADES. 91
St. Bernard began to preach, and wanted but little
persuasion to embark in the cause. His example
had great influence upon the nobility, who, im-
poverished as many ofthem were by the sacrifices
made by their fathers in the holy wars, were anxious
to repair their ruined fortunes by conquests on a
foreign shore. These took the fte)d with such vas-
sals as they could command, and, in a very short
time.., an army was raised amounting to two hun-
dred thousand men. At Vezelai the monarch re-
ceiYed the cross from the hands of St. Bernard, on
a platform elevated in sight of all the people. Se-
vera) nobles, three bishops, and his Queen, Eleanor
of Aquitaine, were present at this ceremony.o and
enrolled themselves under the banners of the Cross,
St. Bernard cutting up his red sacerdotal vest-
ments, and making crosses of them, to be sewn on
the shoulders of the people. An exhortation from
the Pope was read to the multitude, granting re-
the same policy. The ecclesiastical chapter of Bourges, ha>;ng
elected an Archbishop without his consent, he proclaimed t~e elec-
tion to be invalid, and took severe and prompt measures against
the refractory clergy. Thibault, Count de Champagne, took up
anna in defence of the Papal authority, and intrenched himself in
the town of Vitry. Louis was immediately in the field to chas-
tise the rebel, and he besieged the town with so much vigour, that
the Count was forced to surrender. Upwards of thirteen hundred
of the inhabitants, fully one half of whom were women and chil-
dren, took refuge in the church; and, when the gates of the city
were opened, and all resistance had ceased, Louis inhumanly gave
orders to set fire to the church, and a thousa.nd persons peri.ahed in
the fi!unes.
92 THE CRUSADES.
mission of their sins to all who should join the
Crusade, and directing that no man on that holy
pilgrimage should encumber himself with heavy
baggage and vain superfluities, and that the nobles
should not travel with dogs or falcons, to lead them
from the direct road, as had happened to so many
during the first Crusade.
The command of the army was offered to St.
Bernard ; but he wisely refused to accept a station
for which his habits had unqualified him. After
consecrating Louis with great solemnity, at St.
Denis, as chief of the expedition, he continued his
course through the country, stirring up the people
wherever he went. So high an opinion was enter-
tained of his sanctity, that be was thought to be
animated by the spirit of prophecy, and to be gifted
with the power ofworking miracles. Many women,
excited by his eloquence, and encouraged by his
predictions, forsook their husbands and children,
and, clothing themselves in male attire, hastened
to the war. St. Bernard himself yrrote a letter to
the Pope, detailing his success, and stating, that
in several towns there did not remain a single male
inhabitant capable of bearing arms, and that every-
where castles and towns were to be seen filled with
women weeping for their absent husbands. But
in spite of this apparent enthusiasm, the numbers
who really took up arms were inconsiderable, and
not to be compared to the swarms of the first
Crusade. A levy of no more than two hundred
TilE CRUSADES. 98
thousand men, which was the utmost the number
amounted to, could hardly have depopulated a
country like France to tbe extent mentioned by
St. Bernard. His description of the state of the
country appears, therefore, to have been much
more poetical than true.
Suger, the able minister of Louis, endeavoured
to dissuade him from undertaking so long a jour-
ney at a -time when his own dominions so much
needed his presence. But the king was pricked in
his conscience by the cruelties of Vitry, and was
anxious to make ·the only reparation which the re-
ligion of that ·day considered sufficient. He was
desirous more'over of testifying to the world, that
though he could brave the temporal power of the
church when it encroached upon his prerogatives,
he could render an due obedience to its spiritual
decrees whenever it suited his interest or tallied
with his prejudices to so do. Suger, therefore, im-
plored in vain, and Louis received the pilgrim's
staff at St. Denis, and made all preparations for
his pilgrimage.
In the mean time St. Bernard passed into Ger-
many, where similar success attended his preach-
ing. The renown of his sanctity had gone before
him, and he found everywhere an admiring audi-
ence. Thousands of people, who could not under-
stand a word he said, flocked around him to catch
a glimpse of so holy a man ; and the knights en-
rolled themselves in great numbers in the service of
•
j 1 ' I
94 THE CRUSADES.
the Cross., each receiving from his hands the symbol
of the cause. But the people were not led away
as in the days of Gottschalk. We do not find that
they rose in such tremendous masses of two and
three hundred thousand men., swarming over the
country like a plague of locusts. Still the enthu.;
siasm was very great. The extraordinary tales that
were told and believed of the Jniracles worked
by the preacher brought the country people from
far and near. Devils were said to vanish at his
sight., and diseases of the most malignant nature to
be cured by his touch.* The Emperor Conrad
caught at last the contagion from his subjects, and
declared his intention to follow the Cross.
The preparations were carried on so vigorously
under the orders of Conrad, that in less than three
months he found himself at the head of an army
containing at least one hundred and fifty thousand
effective men, besides a great number of women
who followed their husbands and lovers to the war.
One troop of them rode in the attitude and armour
of men: their chief wore gilt spurs and buskins,
and thence acquired the epithet of the golden-footed
lady. Conrad was ready to set out long before the
• Philip, Archdeacon of the cathedral of Liege, wrote a detatled
account ofall the mil"acles performed by St. Bernard during thirty-
four days of his mission. They averaged about ten per day. The
disciples of St. Bernard complained bitterly tbat the people flocked
axound their master in such numbers, that they could not see half
the miracles he performed. But they willingly trusted the eyes of
others, aa far as faith in the miracles went, and seemed to vie with
each other whose credulity should be greatest.
TilE CRUSADES. 95
French Monarch, and in the month of June 1147,
he arrived before Constantinople, having passed
through Hungary and Bulgaria without offence to
the inhabitants.
Manuel Comnenus, the Greek Emperor, suc-
cessor not only to the throne, but to the policy of
•
Alexius, looked with alarm upon the new levies
who had come to eat up his capital and imperil its
tranquillity. Too weak to refuse them a passage
through his dominions, too distrustful of them to
make them welcome when they came, and too little
assured of the advantages likely to result to him-
self from the war, to feign a friendship which he
did not feel, the Greek Emperor gave offence at the
"Very outset. His subjects, in the pride of superior
civilization, called the Germans barbarians, while
"the latter, who, if semi-barbarous, were at least
honest and straight-forward, retorted upon the
Greeks by calling them double-faced knaves and
traitors. Disputes continually arose between them,
and Conrad, who bad preserved so much good order
among bis followers during their passage, was un-
able to restrain their indignation when they arrived
at Constantinople. For some offence or other
which the Greeks bad given them, but which i~
rather hinted at than stated by the scanty historians
ofthe day, the Germans broke into the magnificent
pleasure garden of the Emperor, where be had a
valuable collection of tame animals, for which the
grounds had been laid out in woods, caverns, groves,
and streams, that each might follow in captivity his
96 THE CRUSADES;
•
natural habits. The enraged Germans, meriting
the name of barbarians that had been bestowed'
upon them, laid waste this pleasant retreat, and
killed or let,loose the valuable animals it contained.
Manuel, who is said to have beheld the devastation
from his palace windows without power or courage
to prevent it, was completely disgusted With his
guests, and resolved, like his predecessor Alexius,
to get rid of them on the first opportunity. He
sent a message to Conrad respectfully desiring an
interview, but the German refused to trust himself
within the walls of Constantinople. The Greek
Emperor, on his part, thought it compatible nei.
ther with his dignity nor his safety to seek the Ger-
man, and several days were spent in insincere ne-
gotiations. Manuel at length agreed to furnish
the crusading army with guides to conduct it
through Asia Minor ; and Conrad passed over the
Hellespont with his forces, the advanced guard
being commanded by himself, and the rear by the
warlike Bishop of Freysinghen.
Historians are almost unanimous in their belief
that the wily Greek gave instructions to his guides
, to lead the army of the German Emperor into dan-
gers and difficulties. It is certain, th~ instead of
guiding them through such districts of Asia Minor
as afforded water and provisions, they led them into
the wilds of Cappadocia, where neither was to be
procured, and where they were suddenly attacked
by the Sultaun of the Seljukian Turks, at the head
TRE CRUSADES. 97'
of an immense force. The guides, whose treachery
is apparent from this fact alone, fled at the first
sight of the Turkish army, and the Christians were
left to wage unequal warfare with their enemy, en-
tangled and bewildered in desert wilds. Toiling
in their heavy mail, the Germans could make but
little efFective resistance to the attacks ofthe Turk-
ish light horse, who were down upon them one
instant, and out of sight the ·next. Now in the
front and now in the rear, the agile foe showered
his arrows upon them, enticing them into swamps
and hollows, from which they could only extricate
themselves after long struggles and great losses.
The Germans, confounded by this mode of warfare,
lost all conception of the direction they were pur..
suing, and went back instead of forward. SufFer-
ing at the same time for want of provisions, they fell
an easy prey to their pursuers. Count Bernhard,
one of the bravest leaders of the German expe-
dition, was surrounded, with his whole division, not
one of whom escaped the Turkish arrows. The
Emperor himself had nearly fallen a victim, and
was twice severely wounded. So persevering was
the enemy, and so little able were the Germans to
make even a show of resistance, that when Conrad
at last reached the city of Nice, he fouqd that,
instead of being at the head of an imposing force
of one hundred thousand foot and seventy thou-
sand horse, he bad but fifty or sixty thousand men,
and these in the most worn and wearied condition.
VOL. U. ti
j 1 ' I
98 THE CRUSAD~S.
Tota1Jy ignorant of the treachery of the Greek
Emperor, although he bad been warned to beware
of it, Louis VII. proceeded, at the head of his army,
through Worms and Ratisbon, towards Constantin-
ople. At Ratisbon he was met by a deputation
from Manuel, bearing letters so full Of hyperbole
and flattery, that Louis is reported to have blushed
.when they were read to him by the Bishop of Lan-
gres. The object of the deputation was to obtain
from the French King a promise to pass through
the Grecian territories in a peaceable and .friendly
manner, and to yield to the Greek Emperor any
conquest he might make in Asia Minor. The first
part ofthe proposition was immediately acceded to,
but no notice was taken of the second and more
unreasonable. Louis marched on, and, passing
through Hungary, pitched his tents in the out-
skirts of Constantinople.
On his arrival, Manuel sent him a friendly in-
Vitation to enter the city, at the head of a small
tra-
in. Louis at once accepted it, and wns met by
the Emperor at the porch of his palace. The fair-
est promises were made ; every art that flattery
could suggest was resorted to, and e-very argument
employed, to induce him to yield his future con-
quests to the Greek. Louis obstinately refused to
pledge himself, and returned to his army, con-
-vinced that the Emperor was a man not to be
trusted. Negotiations were, however, continued
for several days, to the great dissatisfaction of the
THE CRUSADES. 99
French army. The news that arrived of a treaty
entered into between Manuel and the Turkish Sul-
tan changed their dissatisfaction into fury, and
the leaders demanded to be led against Constan-
tinople, swearing that they would raze the treach-
erous city to the ground. Louis did not feel
inclined to accede to this proposal, and, breaking
up his camp, he crossed over into Asia.
Here he heard, for the first time, of the mishaps
of the German Emperor, whom he found in a
woeful plight under the walls of Nice. The two
monarchs united their forces, and marched together
along the sea-coast to Ephesus ; but Conrad, jea-
lous, it would appear, of the superior numbers of
the French, and not liking ·to sink into a vassal, for
the time being, of his rival, withdrew abruptly with
the remnant of his legions, and returned to Con-
stantinople. Manuel was all smiles and courtesy.
He condoled with the German so feelingly upon
his losses, and cursed the stupidity or treachery of
the guides with such apparent heartiness, that Con-
rad was half inclined to believe in his sincerity.
Louis, marching onward in the direction of Jeru-
salem, came up with the enemy on the banks of
the Meander. The Turks contested the passage
of the river, but the French bribed a peasant to
point out a ford lower down : crossing the river
without difficultyt they attacked the Turks with
much vigour, and put them to flight. Whether
the Turks were really defeated, or merely pre-
H2
j 1 ' I
100 THE CRUSADES.
tended to be so, is doubtful ; but the latter sup.
position seems to be the true ooe. It is pro.
bable that it was part of a concerted plan to
draw the invaders onwards to more unfavourable
ground, where their destruction might be more cer-
tain. Ifsuch were the scheme, it succeeded to the
heart's wish of its projectors. The crusaders, on
the third day after their victory, arrived at a steep
mountain-pass, on the summit of which the Turk-
ish host lay concealed so artfully, that not the
slightest vestige of their presence could be per-
ceived. "With labouring steps and slow," they
toiled up the s·teep ascent, when suddenly a tre-
mendous fragment of rock came bounding down
the precipices with an awful crash, bearing dismay
and death before it. At the same instant the
Turkish archers started from their hiding-places,
and discharged a shower of arrows upon the foot
soldiers, who fell by hundreds at a time. The
arrows rebounded harmles~Jy against the iron mail
of the knights, which the Turks observing, took
aim at their steeds, and horse and rider fell down
the steep into the rapid torrent which rushed below.
Louis, who commanded the rear-guard, received
the first intimation of the onslaught from the sight
of his wounded and flying soldiers, and, not know-
ing the numbers of the enemy, he pushed vigor-
ously forward to stay, by his presence, the panic
which bad taken possession of his army. All. his
efforts were in vain~ Immense stones continued to
be hurled upon them as they advanced, bearing
TH.B CRUSADES. 101
men and horse before them; and those who suc-
ceeded in forcing their way to the top, were met
band-to-band by the Turks, and cast down head-
long upon their companions. Louis himself foug.bt
with the energy of desperation, but had great dif-
ficulty to avoid falling into the enemy's hands.
He escaped at last under cover of the night, with
the remnant of his forces, and took up his position
before Attalia. Here be restored the discipline and
the courage of his disorganized and disheartened
followers, and debated with his captains the plan
that was to be pursued. After suffering severely
both from disease and famine, it was resolved that
they should march to Antioch, which still remained
an independent principality under the successors
of Bohemund of Tarentum. At this time the
sovereignty was vested in the person of Raymond,
the uncle ofEleanor ofAquitaine. This Prince, pre-
suming upon his relationship to the French Queen,
endeavoured to withdraw Louis from the grand
object of the Crusade-the defence of the king-
dom of Jerusalem, and secure his co-operation in
extending the limits and the .power of his prin-
cipality of Antioch. The Prince of Tripoli formed
a similar design, but Louis rejected the offers of
both, and marched after a short delay to Jeru-
salem. The Emperor Conrad was there before
him, having left Constantinople with promises of
assistance from Manuel Comncnus ; assistance which
never arrived, and was never intended.
{ ol 11 1
102 THE CRUSADES.
A great council of the Christian princes of Pa-
lestine and the leaders of the Crusade w'as then
summoned, to discuss the future operations of the
war. It was ultimately determined that it would
further the cause of the Cross in a greater degree
if the united armies, instead of proceeding to Edessa,
laid siege to the city of Damascus, and drove the
Saracens from that strong position. This was a
bold scheme, and,·had it been boldly fol1owed out,
would have insured, in all probability, the success
of the war.. But the Christian leaders never learn-
ed from experience the necessity of union, that very
soul of great enterprises. Though they all agreed
upon the policy of the plan, yet every one had his
own notions as to the means of executing it. The
Princes of Antioch and Tripoli were jealous of each
other, and of the King of Jerusalem. The Empe-
ror Conrad was jealous o£ the King of France, and
the King of France was disgusted with them all.
But he had come ~out to Palestine in accordance
with a solemn vow; his religion, though it may be
called bigotry, was sincere; and he determined to
remain to the very last moment that a chance was
left, of effecting any good for the cause he had set
his heart on.
The siege of Damascus was accordingly com-
menced, and with so much ability and vigour that
the Christians gained a considerable advantage at
the very outset. For weeks the siege was pressed,
till the shattered fortifications and diminishing re-
THE CRUSAQES. 108
sistance of the besieged gave evidence that the city
could.not hold out much longer. At that moment
the insane jealousy of the leaders led to dissensions
that soon caused the utter failure, not only of the
siege, but of the Crusade. A modem cookery-
book, in giving a recipe for cooking a hare, says,.
"first catch your hare, and then kill it;" a maxim
of indisputable wisdom. The Christian chiefs on
this occasion had not so much sagacity, for they
began a violent dispute among themselves for the
possession of a city which was still unconquered.
There being already a Prince of Antioch and a
Prince ·of Tripoli, twenty claimants started for the
principality of Damascus, and a grand council of
the leaders was held to determine the individual on
whom the honour should devolve. Many valuable
days were wasted in this discussion, the enemy in
the mean while gaining strength from their inac-
tivity. It was at length, after a stormy deJibera•
tion, agreed that Count Robert of Flanders, who
had twice visited the Holy Land,-should be invest-
ed with the dignity. The other claimants refused
to recognise him, or to co-operate in the siege,
until a more equitable arrangement had been made.
Suspicion filled the camp/; the most sinister ru-
mours of intrigues and treachtlry were set afloat;
and the discontented candidates withdrew at last
to the other side of the city, and commenced ope-
rations on their own account, without a probability
of success. They were soon joined by the rest of
104 THE CRUSADES.
the army. The consequence was that the we~kest
side of the city, and that on which they had already
made considerable progress in the work of demo-
lition, was left uncovered. The enemy was pr~mpt
to profit by the mistake, and received an abun-
dant supply of I?rovisions, and refortified the walls,
before the crusaders came to their senses again;
When this desirable event happened, it was too
late. Saph Eddin, the powerful Emir of Mousoul,
was in the neighbourhood, at the head of a large
army, advancing by forced marches to the relief
of the city. The siege was abruptly abandoned,
and the foolish crusaders returned to Jerusalem,
having done nothing to weaken the enemy, but
every thing to weaken themselves.
The freshness of enthusiasm had now completely
subsided ;-even the meanest soldiers were sick at
heart. Conrad, frail) whose fierce zeal at the out-
set so much might have been expected, was wearied
with reverses, and returned to Europe with the
poor remnant of his host. Louis lingered a short
time longer, for very shame, bqt the pressing so-
licitations of his minister Suger induced him to
return to France. Thus ended the second Cru.
sade. Its history is but a chronicle of defeats. It
left the kingdom ofJerusalem in a worse state than
when it quitted Europe, and gained nothing but
disgrace for its leaders and discouragement for
all concerned.
St. Bernard, who had prophesi~d a result so dif-
THE CRUSADES. 105
ferent, fell after this into some disrepute, and expe-
rienced, like many other prophets, the fate of being
without honour in his own country. What made the
matter worse, he could not obtain it in any other.
-
Still, however, there were not wanting zealous ad-
vocates to stand forward in his behalf, and stem the
tide of incredulity, which, unopposed, would have
carried away his reputation. The Bishop of Frey-
sioghen declared that prophets were not always able
to prophesy, and that the vices of the crusaders drew
down t11e wrath of Heaven upon them. But the
most ingenious excuse ever made for St. Bernard
is to be found in his life by Geoffroi de Clairvaux,
where he pertinaciously insists that the Crusade
was not unfortunate. St. Bernard, he says, had
prophesied a happy result, and that result could not
be considered other than happy which had peopled
heaven with so glorious an army of martyrs. GeofF-
roi was a cunning pleader, and, no doubt, convinced
a few of the zealous ; but plain people, who were
not wanting even in those days, retained their
own opinion, or, what amounts to the same thing~
., were convinced against their will."
We now come to the consideration of the third
Crusade, and of the causes which rendered it ne-
cessary. The epidemic frenzy, which had been
cooling !ver since the issue of the first expedition,
was now extinct, or very nearly so, and the nations
of Europe looked with cold indifference upon the
armaments of their princes. But chivalry had
106 THE CRUSADES.
flourished in its natural element of war, and was
now in all its glory. It continued to supply armies
for the Holy Land when the popular ranks refused
to deliver up their able-bodied swarms. Poetry,
which, more than religion, inspired the third Cru-
sade, was then but '~ caviat·e to the million,'' who
had other matters, of sterner import, to claim all
their attention. But the knights and their re-
tainers listened with delight to the martial and
amatory strains of the minstrels, minnesange~
trouveres, and troubadours, and burned to win
favour in ladies' eyes by showing prowess in Holy
Land. The third was truly the romantic era of
the Crusades. Men fought then, not so much for
the sepulchre of Jesus, and the maintenance of a
Christian kingdom in the East.. as to gain glory
for themselves in the best, and almost only field,
where glory could be obtained. They fought, not
as zealots.. but as soldiers ; not for religion, but for
honour ; not for the crown of martyrdom, but for
the favour of the lovely.
It is not necessary to enter into a detail of the
events by which Saladin attained the sovereignty
of the East, or how, after a succession of engage-
ments, be planted the Moslem banner once more
upon the battlements of Jerusalem. The Christian
knights and population, including the grand orders
of St. John, the Hospitallers, and the Temph.rs,
were sunk in an abyss of vice, and torn by un-
worthy jealousies and dissensions, were unable to
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. 107
resist the well-trained armies which the wise and
mighty Saladin brought forward to crush them.
But' the news of their fall created a painful sensa...
tion among the chivalry of Europe, whose noblest
members were linked to the dwellers in Palestine
by many ties, both of blood and friendship. The
news of the great battle of Tiberias, in which
Saladin defeated the Christian host with terrible
slaughter, arrived first in Europe, and was followed
in quick succession by that of the capture of Jeru-
salem, Antioch, Tripoli, and other cities. Dismay
seized upon the clergy. The Pope (Urban III.)
was so affected by the news that he pined away for
grief, and was acarcely seen to smile again, until
he sank into the sleep of death.• His successor,
Gregory VIII. felt the loss as acutely, but had
better strength to bear it, and instTucted all the
clergy of the Christian world to stir up the people
to arms for the recovery of the Holy Sepulchre.
William, Archbisl1op of Tyre, a humble follower
in the path of Peter the Hermit, left Palestine to
preach to the Kings of Europe the miseries he had
witnessed, and to incite them to the rescue. The
renowned Frederick Barbarossa, the Emperor of
Germany, speedily collected an army, and passing
over into Syria with less delay than had ever before
awaited a crusading force, defeated the Saracens,
and took possession of the city of !conium. He
was unfortunately cut off in the middle of his snc-
• James of Vitry-William de Nangis.
•
108 THE CRUSADES.
cessful career, by imprudently bathing in the Cyd-
nus• while he was overheated, and the Duke of
Suabia took the command of the expedition. The
latter did not prove so able a general, and met
with nothing but reverses, although be was enabled
to maintain a footing at Antioch until assistance
arrived from Europe.
Henry II. of England and Philip Augustus of
France, at the head of their chivalry, supported
the Crusade with all their influence, ~ntil wars and
dissensions nearer home estranged them from it for
a time. The two kings met at Gisors in Nor-
mandy in the month·of January 1188, accompanied
by a brilliant train of knights and warriors. Wil-
liam of Tyre was present, and expounded the cause
of the Cross with considerable eloquence, und the
whole assembly hound themselves hy oath to pro-
ceed to Jerusalem. It was agreed at the same
time that a tax, called Saladin's tithe_, and consist-
ing of the tenth part of all possessions, whether
landed or personal, should be enforced over Chris-
tendom_, upon every one who was either unable or
unwilling to assume the Cross. The lord of every
feof, whether lay or ecclesiastical, was charged to
raise the tithe within his own jurisdiction ; and any
one who refused to pay his quota, became by that act
• The desire of comp~ri.ng two great men has tempted many
writers to drown Frederick in the river Cydnus, in which Alexander
so imprudently bathed (Q. Curt. lib•.iii. c. 4, 5.): but, from the
march of the Emperor, I rather judge that hia Saleph ia the Caly-
cadnus, a stream of less fame, but ofa longer courae.-GrBBON.
THE CRUSADES. 109
the bondsman and absolute property of his lord.
At the same time the greatest indulgence was
shown to those who assumed the Cross; no man
was at liberty to stay them by process of any kind,
whether for debt, or robbery, or murder. The
King of Fr~nce, at the breaking up of the confe-
rence, summoned a parliament at Paris, where
these resolutions were solemnly confirmed, while
Henry II. did the same for his Norman posses-
sions at Rouen, and for England at Geddington, in
NorthamptonshiTe. To use the words of an an-
cient chronicler,• "he held a parliament about the
voyage into the Holy Land, and troubled the whole
land with the paying of tithes towards it."
But it was not England only that was "troubled"
by the tax. The people of france also looked
upon it with no plea.sant feelings, and appear from
that time forth to have changed their indifference
for the Crusade into aversion. Even the clergy,
who were exceedinglf willing that other people
should contribute half, or even all their goods in
furtherance of their favourite scheme, were not at
all anxious to contribute a single sous themselves.
Millott relates that several of them cried out
against the impost. Among the rest the clergy of
Rheims were called upon to pay their quota, but
sent a deputation to the King, begging him to be
contented with the aid of their ·prayers, as they
were too poor to contribute in any other shape.
• Stowe. t '' Elemena de l'Histoire de France."
110 THE CRUSADES.
Philip Augustus knew better, and by way of giving
them a lesson, employed three nobles of the vicinity
to Jay waste the church lands. The clergy, in-
formed of the outrage, applied to the .King for re-
dress. . ~' I wilJ aid you with my prayers,.. said the
Monarch condescendingly, " and will intreat those
gentlemen to Jet the church alone." He did as he
had promised, but in such a manner, that the
nobles, who appreciated the joke, continued their
devastations as before. Again the clergy applied
to the King. 11
What would you have of me 1" he
replied, in answer to their remonstrances : " You
gave me your prayers in my necessity, and I have
given you mine in yours." The clergy understood
the argument, and thought it the wiser course to
pay their quota of $aladin's tithe without further
parley.
This anecdote shows the unpopularity of the
Crusade. If the clergy disliked to contribute, it is
no wonder that the people felt still greater anti-
pathy. But the chivalry of Europe was eager for
the affray: the tithe was rigorously collected, and
armies from England, France, Burgundy, Italy,
Flanders, and Germany, were soon in the field.
The two kings who were to have led it, were, how-
ever, drawn into broils by an aggression of Richard
Duke of Guicnne, better known as Richard Creur
de Lion, upon the territory of the Count of Tou-
louse, and the proposed journey to Palestine was
delayed. War continued to rage between France
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. 111
and England, and with so little probability of a
speedy termination, that many of the nobles, bound
to the Crusade, left the two ·Monarchs to settle
their differences at their leisure, and proceeded to
Palestine without them.
Death at last stepped in and removed Henry II.
from the hostility of his foes, and the treachery and
ingratitude of his children. His son Richard im·
mediately concluded an alliance with Philip Au-
gustus, and the two young, valiant, and impetuous
Monarcbs, united all their energies to forward the
Crusade. They met with a numerous and brill~ant
retinue at Nonancourt in Normandy, where, in
sight of their assembled chivalry, they embraced as
brothers, and swore to live as friends and true allies,
until a period of forty days after their return from
the Holy Land. With a view of purging their
camp from the follies and vices which had proved
so ruinous to preceding expeditions, they drew up a
code of laws for the government ofthe army. Gam-
bling had been carried to a great extent, and had
proved the fruitful source of quarrels and blood-
shed, and one of their laws prohibited any person in
the army, beneath the degree of a knight, from
playing at any game for money.• • Knights and
clergymen might play for money, but no one was
permitted to lose or gain more than twenty shillings
in a day, under a penalty of one hundred shillings.
The personal attendants of the Monarchs were also
* Strutt's "Sports and Pastimes."
THE CRUSADES.
allowed to play to the same extent. The penalty
in their case for infraction was that they should
be whipped naked through the army for the space
of three days. Any crusader, who struck another
and drew blood, was ordered to have his band cut
off; and whoever slew a brother crusader was con-
demned to be tied alive to the corpse of his victim ·
and buried with him. No young women were
allowed to follow the army, to the great sorrow of
many vicious and of many virtuous dames, who had
not courage to elude the decree by dressing in male
attire. But many high-minded and affectionate
maidens and matrons, bearing the sword or t~e
spear, followed their husbands and lovers to the
war in spite of King Richard, and in defiance
of danger. The only women allowed to accom-
pany the army in their own habiliments, were
washerwomen, of fifty years. complete, and any
others of the fair sex who had reached the same
age.
These rules having been promulgated, the two
monarchs marched together to Lyons, where they
separated) agreeing to meet again at Messina. Phi-
lip proceeded across the Alps to Genoa, where he
took ship, an~ was conveyed in safety to the place
of rendezvous. Richard turned in the direction of
Marseilles, where he also took ship for Messina.
His impetuous disposition hurried him into many
squabbles by the way, and his knights and fol-
lowers, for the most part as brave and as foolish
THE CRUSADES. 118
as himself, imitated him very zealously in this par-
ticular. At Messina the Sicilians charged the most
exorbitant prices for every necessary of life. Rich-
ard's army in vain remonstrated. From words
they came to blows, and, as a last resource, plun-
dered the Sicilians, since they could not trade with
them. Continual battles were the consequence,
in one of which Lebrun, the favourite attendant of
Richard, lost his life. .The peasantry from far and
near came flocking to the aid of the townspeople,
and the battle soon became general. Richard,
irritated at the loss of his favourite, and incited
by a report that Tancred, the King of Sicily, was
fighting at the head of his own people, joined the
melee with his boldest knights, and, beating back
the Sicilians, attacked the city, sword in hand,
stormed the battlements, tore down the flag of
Sicily, and planted his own in its stead. This col-
lision gave great offence to tbe King of France,
who . became from that time jealous of Richard,
and apprehensive that his design was not so much
to re-establish the Christian Kingdom of Jerusa-
lem, as to make conquests for himself. He, how·
ever, exerted his influence to restore peace between
the English and Sicilians, and shortly afterwards
set sail for Acre, with distrust of his ally germi-
nating in his heart.
Richard remained behind for some weeks, in a
state of inactivity quite unaccountable in one of his
temperament. He appears to have had no more
VO,L. IJ. r
114 THE CRUSADES.
Bquabbles with the Sicilians, but to have lived an
easy luxurious life, forgetting, in the lap ofpleasure,
the objects for which he had quitted his own do-
minions and the dangerous laxity he was introdu-
cing into his army. The superstition ofhis soldiers
recalled him at length to a sense of his duty : a
comet was seen for several successive nights, which
was thought to menace them with the vengeance
of Heaven for their delay. Shooting stars gave
them similar warning ; and a fanatic, of the name
of Joachim, with his drawn sword in his hand, and
his long hair streaming wildly over his shoulders,
went through the camp, howling all night long,
and predicting plague, famine, and every other ca-
lamity, if they did not set out immediately. Rich-
ard did not deem it prudent to neglect the inti-
mations ; and, after doing humble penance for his
remissness, be set sail for Acre.
A vioJent storm dispersed his fleet, but be ar-
rived safely at Rhodes with the principal part of
the armament. Here he learned that three of
his ships had been stranded on the rocky coasts of
Cyprus, and that the ruler of the island, Isaac
Comnenus, had permitted his people to pillage the
unfortunate crews, and had refused shelter to his
betrothed bride, the Princess Berengaria, and his
sister, who, in one of the vessels, had been driven
by stress of weather into the port ofLimisso. The
fiery monarch swore to be revenged, and, collect-
~ng all his vessels, sailed back to Limisso. Isaac
THE CRUSADES. 115
Comnenus refused to apologize or explain, and
Richard, in no mood to be trifled with, landed on
the island, routed with great loss the forces sent to
oppose him, and Jaid the whole country under con-
tribution.
On his arrival at Acre, he found the whole of
the chivalry-of Europe there before him. Guy of
Lusignan, the King of Jerusalem, had long before
collected the bold Knights of the Temple, the
Hospital, and St. John, and had laid siege to Acre,
which was resolutely defended by the Sultan Sala-
din, with an army magnificent both for its num-
bers and its discipline. For nearly two years the
crusaders had pushed the siege, and made efforts
almost superhuman to dislodge the enemy. Vari-
ous battles had taken place in the open fields with
no decisive advantage to either party, and Guy
of Lusignan had begun to despair of taking that
strong position without aid from Europe. His joy ·
was extreme on the arrival of Philip l_'Vith all his
chivalry, and he only awaited the coming of Creur
de Lion to make one last decisive attack upon the
town. When the fleet of England was first seen
approaching the shores of Syria, a universal shout
arose from the Christian camp ; and when Richard
landed with his train, one louder sti11 pierced to
the very mountains of the south, where Saladin lay
with all his army.
It may be remarked as characteristic of this
Crusade, that the Christians and the Moslems no
1 2
116 THE CRUSADES.
longer looked upon each other as barbarians, to
whom mercy was a crime. Each host entertained
the highest admiration for the bravery and mag-
nanimity of the other, and in their occasional truces
met upon the most friendly terms. The Moslem
warriors were full of courtesy to the Christian
knights, and had no other regret than to think
that such fine fellows were not Mahomedans. The
Christians, with a feeling precisely similar, extolled
to the skies the nobleness of the Saracens, and
sighed to think that such generosity and valour
should be sullied by disbelief in the Gospel of
Jesus. But when the strife began, all these feel-
ings disappeared, and the struggle became mortal.
The jealousy excited in the mind of Philip by
the events of Messina still rankled, and the two
monarchs refused to act in concert. Instead of
making a joint attack upon the town, the French
· monarch assailed it alone, and was repulsed. Rich-
ard did the same, and with the same result. Philip
tried to seduce the soldiers of Richard from their
allegiance by the offer of three gold pieces per
month to every knight who would forsake the.ban-
ners of England for those of France. Richard met
the bribe by another, and promised four pieces to
every French knight who should join the Lion of
England. In this unworthy rivalry their time was
wasted, to the great detriment of the discipline
and efficiency of their followers. Some good was
nevertheless effected ; for the mere presence of two
THE CRIJSADES. 117
such armies prevented the besieged city from re-
ceiving supplies, and the inhabitants were re-
duced by famil!e to the moi't woeful straits. Sa-
ladin did not deem it prudent to risk a general
engagement by coming to their relief, but preferred
to wait till dissension had weakened his enemy,
and made him an easy prey. Perhaps if he had
been aware of the real extent of the extremity in
Acre, he would have changed his plan; but, cut
off from the town, he did not know their misery
till it was too late. After n short truce the city
capitulated upon terms so severe that Saladin after-
wards refused to ratify them. The chief conditions
were, that the precious wood of the true cross,
captured by the Moslems in Jerusalem, should be
restored; that a sum of two hundred thousand
gold pieces should be paid ; and that ~~11 the Chris-
tian prisoners in Acre should be released, together
with two hundred knights and a thousand soldiers,
detained in captivity by Saladin. The eastern
monarch, as may be well conceived, did not set
much store on the wood of the cross, but was
nevertheless anxious to keep it, as he ~new its pos-
session by the Christians would do more than a
victory to restore their courage. He refused, there-
fore, to deliver it up, or to accede to any of the
conditions; and Richard, as he had previously
threatened, barbarously ordered all the Saracen
prisoners in his power to be put to death.
The possession of the city only caused new and
j 1 ' I
118 THE CRUSADES.
unhappy dissensions between the Christian leaders.
The Archduke of Austria unjustifiably ·hoisted
his flag on one of the towers of Acre, which
Richard no sooner saw than he tore it down
with his own hands, and trampled it under
his feet. Philip, though he did not sympathise
with the Archduke, was piqued at the assumption
of Richard, and the breach between the two mo-
narchs became wider than ever. A foolish dispute
arose at the same time between Guy of Lusignan
and Conrad of Montferrat for the crown of Jeru-
salem. The inferior knights were not slow to imi-.
tate the pernicious example, and jealousy, distrust,
and ill-will reigned in the Christian camp. In
the midst of this confusion the King of France
suddenly announced his intention to return to his
own country. Richard was filled with indigna-
tion, and exclaimed, " Eternal shame light on him,
and on all France, if, for any cause, he leave this
work unfinished!" But Philip was not to be stayed.
His health had sufferetl by his residence in the
East, and, ambitious of playing a first part, he pre.
ferred to play none nt all, than to play second to
King Richard. Leaving a small detachment of
Burgundians behind, he r·eturned to France with
the remainder of his army; and Creur de Lion,
without feeling, in the multitude of his rivals, that
·he had lost the greatest, became painfully con-
vinced that the right arm of the enterprize was
lopped off.
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. 119
After his departure, Richard re-fortified Acre,
restored the Christian worship in the churches,
and, leaving a Christian garrison to protect it,
marched along the sea-coast towards Ascalon. Sa-
ladin was on the alert, and sent his light horse to
attack the rear of the Christian army, while he
himself, miscalculating their weakness since the
defection of Philip, endeavoured to force them to
a general engagement. The rival armies met near
Azotus. A fierce battle ensued, in which Saladin
was defeated and put to flight, and the road to
Jerusalem left free for the crusaders.
Again discord exerted its baleful influence, and
prevented Richard from following up his victory.
His opinion was constantly opposed by the other
leaders, all jealous of his bravery and influence ;
and the army, instead of marching to Jerusalem,
or even to Ascalon, as was first intended, proceeded
to Jaffa, and remained in idleness until Saladin
was again in a condition to wage war against them.
Many months were spent in fruitless hostilities
and as fruitless negotiations. Richard's wish was
to recapture Jerusalem; but there were difficulties
in the way, which even his bold spirit could not
conquer. His own intolerable pride was not the
least cause of the evil ; for it estranged many a
generous spirit, who would have been willing to
co-operate with him in all cordiality. At length
it was agreed to march to the Holy City ; but the
progress made was so slow and painful, that the
j 1 ' I
120 THE CRUSADES.
soldiers murmured, and the leaders meditated re-
treat. The weather was hot and dry, ana there
was little water to be procured. Saladin had
choked up the wells and cisterns on the route, and
the army had not zeal enough to push forward
amid such privation. At Bethlehem a council was
held, to debate whether they should retreat or
advance. Retreat was decided upon, and imme-
diately commenced. It is said, that Richard was
first led to a bill, whence he could obtain a sight of
the towers of Jerusalem, and that he was so af-
fected at being so near it, and so unable to relieve
it, that he bid his face behind his shield, and
sobbed aloud.
The army separated into two divisions, the
smaller falling back upon Jaffa, and the larger,
commanded by Richard and the Duke ofBurgundy,
returning to Acre. Before the English monarch
ltad made all his preparations for his return to
Europe, a messenger reached Acre with the in-
telligence that Jaffa was besieged by Saladin, and
that, unless relieved immediately, the city would
be taken. The French, under the Duke of Bur-
gundy, were so wearied with the war, that they
refused to aid their brethren in Jaffa. Richard,
blushing with shame at their pusillanimity, called
his English to the rescue, and arrived just in time
to save the city. His very name put the Saracens
to flight, so great was their dread of his prowess.
Saladin regarded him with the warmest admira-
THE CRUSADES. 121
tion, and when Richard, after his victory, demanded
peace, willingly acceded. A truce was concluded
for three years and .eight months, during which
Christian pilgrims were to enjoy the liberty of
visiting Jerusalem without hindrance or payment
of any tax. The crusaders were allowed to retain
the cities of Tyre aml Jaffa, with the country in-
tervening. Saladin, with a princely generosity,
invited many of the Christians to visit Jerusalem;
and several of the leaders took advantage of his
offer to feast their eyes upon a spot which all con-
sidered so sacred. Many of them were entertained
for days in the Sultan's own palace, from which
they returned with their tongues laden with tl1e
praises of the noble infidel. Richard and Saladin
never met, though .the impression that they did
will remain on many minds, who have been dazzled
by the glorious fiction of Sir Walter Scott. But
each admired the prowess and nobleness of soul of
his rival, and agreed to terms far less onerous than
either would ha\'e accepted, had this mutual admi-
ration ·not existed.•
_The King of England no longer delayed his
departure, for messengers from .his owq country
• Richard left a high reputation in Palestine. So much terror
did his name occasion, that the women of Syria Ulled it to frighten
their children for ages afterwards. Every disobedient brut became
etill when told that .IGng Richard was coming. Even men shared
the panic that his name created ; and a hundred years afterwards,
whenever a horse shied at any object in the way, his rider would
exclaim, " What ! dost thou think King Richard is in the bUllh ?"
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES.
brought imperative news that his presence was
required to defeat the intrigues that were foment-
ing against his crown. His long imprisonment
in the Austrian dominions and final ransom are
too well known to be dwelt upon. And thus ended
the third Crusade, less destructive of human life
than the two first, but quite as useless.
The flame of popular enthusiasm now burned
pale indeed, and all the efforts of popes and po-
tentates were insufficient to rekindle it. At last,
after flickering unsteadily, like a lamp expiring
in the .
socket, it burned up brightly for one final
instant, and was extinguished for ever.
The fourth Crusade, as connected with popular
feeling, requires little or no notice. At the death
of Saladin, which happened a year after the con-
clusion of his truce with Richard of England, his
vast empire fell to pieces. His brother Saif Eddin,
or Saphaddin, seized upon Syria, in the possession
of which he was troubled by the sons of Saladin.
When this intelligence reached Europe, the Pope,
Cel,Rtine Ill. judged the moment favourable for
preaching a new Crusade. But every nation in
Europe \fBS unwilling and cold towards it. The
people had no ardour, and Kings were occupied
with more weighty matters at home. The only
Monarch of Europe who encouraged it was the
Emperor Henry of Germany, under whose auspices
the Dukes of Saxony and Bavaria took the field at
the head of a considerable force. They landed in
THE CRUSADES. 123
Palestine, and found anything but a welcome from
the Christian inhabitants. Under the mild sway of
Saladin, they had enjoyed repose and toleration,
and both were endangered by the arrival of the
Germans. They looked upon them in consequence
as over-officious intruders, and gave them no en-
couragement in the warfare against Saphaddin.
The result of this Crusade was even more disas-
trous than the last-for the Germans contrived not
only to embitter the Saracens against the Christians
of Judea, but to lose the strong city of Jaffa, and
cause the destruction of nine-tenths of the army
with which they had quitted Europe. And so
ended the fourth Crusade.
The fifth was more important, and had a result
which its projectors never dreamed of- no less
than the sacking of Constantinople, and the
placing of a French dynasty upon the imperial
throne of the eastern Cresars. Each succeeding
Pope, however much he may have differed from
his predecessors on other points, zealously agreed
in one, that of maintaining by every possible
means the papal ascendancy. No scheme was so
like1y to aid in this endeavour as the Crusades.
As long as they could persuade the kings and
nobles of Europe to fight and die in Syria, their
own sway was aecured over the minds of men
at home. Such being their object, they never
inquired whether a Crusade waa or was not likely
to be successful, whether the time were well or
th'' I
124 THE CRUSADES.
ill chosen, or whether men and money could be
procured in sufficient abundance. Pope Inno-
cent III. would have been proud if he could have
bent the refractory Monarchs of England and
France into so much submission. But John and
Philip Augustus ~ere both engaged. Both had
deeply offended the church, and had been laid
under her ban, and both were occupied in im-
portant reforms at home; Philip in bestowing
immunities upon his subjects, and John in having
them forced from him. The emissaries of the
Pope therefore plied them in vain ;-but as in
the first and second Crusades, the eloquence of
a powerful preacher incited the nobility, and
through them a certain portion of the people,
Foulque, Bishop of Neuilly, an ambitious and
enterprizing prelate, entered fully into the views of
the Court of Rome, and preached the Crusade
wherever he could find an audience. Chance
favoured him to a degree he did not himself ex-
pect, for he had in general found but few proselytes,
and those few but cold in the cause. Theobald,
Count of Champagne, had instituted a grand tour-
nament, to which he had invited all the nobles from
far and near. Upwards of two thousand knights
were present with their retainers, besides a vast
concourse of people to witness the sports. In the
midst of the' festivities Foulque arrived upon the
spot, and conceiving the opportunity to be a favour-
able one, he addressed the multitude in eloquent
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. 125
language, and passionately called upon them to
enrol themselves for the new Crusade. The
Count de Champagne, young, ardent, and easily
excited, received the cross at his hands. The en-
thusiasm spread rapidly. Charles Count of Blois
followed the example, and of the two thousand
knights present, scarcely one hundred and fifty re-
fused. The popular phrensy seemed on the point
of breaking out as in the days of yore. The Count
of Flanders, the Count of Bar, the Duke of Bur-
gundy, an.d the Marquis of Montferrat, brought all
their vassals to swell the train, and in a very short
space of time an effective army was on foot and
ready to march to Palestine.
The dangers of an ovel'land journey were too
well understood, and the crusaders endeavoured to
make a contract with some of the Italian states to
convey them over in their vessels. Dan~olo, the
aged Doge of Venice, offered them the galleys of
the Republic ; but the crusaders, on their arrival in
that city, found themselves too poor to pay even
half the sum demanded. Every means was tried
to raise money ; the crusaders melted down their
plate, and ladies gave up their trinkets. Contri-
butions were solicited from the faithful, but came
in so slowly, as to make it evident to all concerned,
that the faithful of Europe were outnumbered by
the prudent. As a last resource, Dandolo offered
to convey them to Palestine at the expense of the
Republic, if they would previously aid in the recap-
126 THE CRUSADES.
ture ofthe city of Zara, which had been seized from
the Venetians a short time previously by the King
of Hungary. The crusaders consented, much to
the displeasure of the Pope, who threatened excom-
munication upon all who should be turned aside
from the voyage to Jerusalem. But notwithstand-
ing the fulminations of the church, the expedition
never reached Palestine. The siege of Zara was
speedily undertaken. After a long and brave de-
fence, the city surrendered at discretion, and the
crusaders were free, if they bad so chosen it. to use
theiT swords against the Saracens. But the ambi-
tion of the chiefs bad been directe_
d, by unforeseen
circumstances, elsewhere.
After the death of Manuel Comnenus, the Greek
empire had fallen a prey to intestine divisions.
His son Alexius II. bad succeeded him, but was
murdered after a very short reign by his uncle An-
dronicus, who seized upon the throne. His reign
also was but of short duration. Isaac Angelus, a
member of the same family, took up arms against
the usurper, and having defeated and captured him
in a pitched battle, had him put to death. He
also mounted the throne only to be cast down from
it. His brother Alexius deposed him, and to in-
capacitate him from reigning, put out his eyes,
and shut him up in a dungeon. Neither was
Alexius III. allowed to remain in peaceable posses-
sion of the throne ; the son of the unhappy Isaac,
whose name also was Alexius, fled from Constan-
THE CRUSADES. 127
tinople, and hearing that the crusaders had under-
taken the siege of Zara, made them the most mag-
nificent offers if they would afterwards aid him in
deposing his uncle. His offers were, that if by
their means he was re-established in his father's
dominions, he would place the Greek church under
the authority of the Pope of Rome, lend the whole
force of the Greek Empire to the conquest of Pales-
tine, and distribute two hundred thousand marks of
silver among the crusading army. The offer was
accepted, with a proviso on the part of some of the
leaders, that they should be free to abandon the
design, if it met with the disapproval of the Pope.
But this was not to be feared. The submission ofthe
schismatic Greeks to the See of Rome was a greater
bribe to the Pontiff, than the utter annihilation of
the Saracen power in Palestine would have been.
The crusaders were soon in movement for the
imperial city. Their operations were skilfully and
courageously directed, and spread such dismay as
to paralyse the efforts of the usurper to retain pos-
~tession of his throne. After a vain resistance, he
abandoned the city to its fate, and fled no one
knew whither. The aged and blind Isaac was
taken from his dungeon by his subjects, and placed
upon the throne ere the crusaders were apprized of
the flight of his rival. His son Alexius IV. was
afterwards associated with him in the sovereignty.
But the conditions of the treaty gave offence to
the Grecian people, whose prelates refused to place
128 THE CRUSADES.
themselves under the dominion of the See of Rome.
Alexius at first endeavoured to persuade his subjects
to submission, and prayed the crusaders to remain
in Constantinople until they had fortified him in
the possession of a throne which was yet far from
secure. He soon became unpopular with his sub-
jects; and breaking faith with regard to the sub-
sidies, he offended the crusaders. War was at
length declared upon him by both parties; by his
people for his tyranny, and by his former friends for
his treachery. He was seized in his palace by his
own guards and thrown into prison, while the cru-
saders were making ready to besiege his capital.
The Greeks immediately proceeded to the election
of a new Monarch; and looking about for a man
with courage, energy, and perseverance, they fixed
upon Alexius Ducas, who, with almost every bad
quality, was possessed of the virtues ·they needed.
He ascended the throne under the name of Mur-
zuphlis. One of his first acts was to rid himself
of his youngest predecessor-a broken heart had
already removed the blind old Isaac-no longer a
stumbling block in his way-and the young Alexius
was soon after put to death in his prison.
War to the knife was now declared between the
Greeks and the Franks, and early in the spring ofthe
year 1204, preparations were commenced for nn as-
sault upon Constantinople. The French and Vene...
tians entered into a treatyfor the di,•ision ofthe spoils
among their soldiery, for so confident were they of
THE CRl'SADES. li9
success, that failure never once entered into their
calculations. This confidence led them on to vic..
tory, while the Greeks, cowardly as treacherous
people always are, were paralysed by a foreboding
of evil. It has been a matter of astonishment to
all historians, that Murzuphlis, with the reputation
for courage which he had acquired, and the im-
mense resources at his disposal, took no better
measures to repel the onset of the crusaders.
Their numbers were as a mere handful in compari-
son with those which he could have brought against
them ; and if they had the hopes of plunder to lead
them on, the Greeks had their homes to fight for,
and their very existence as a nation to protect.
After an impetuous assault, repulsed for one day,
but renewed with double impetuosity on auother,
the crusaders lashed their vessels against the walls,
slew every man who opposed them, and, with little
loss to themselves, entered the city. Murzuphlis
fled, and Constantinople was given over to be pil-
laged by the victors. The wealth they found was
enormous. In money alone there was sufficient to
distribute twenty marks of silver to each knight,
ten to each squire or servant at arms, and five
to each archer. Jewels, velvets, silks, and every
luxury of attire, with rare wines and fruits, and
valuable merchandise ofevery description, also fell
into their hands, and were bought by the trading
Venetians, and the proceeds distributed among the
army. Two thousand persons were put to the
VOL. II. K
j 1 ' I
ISO THE CRUSADES.
sword; but had there been less plunder to take up
the attention of the victors, the slaughter would in
all probability have been much greater.
In many of the bloody w.ars which defile the
page ofhistory, we find that soldiers, utterly reck-
less of the works of God, will destroy his master-
piece, man, with unsparing bruta.lity, but linger
with respect around the beautiful works of art.
They will slaughter women and children, but spare
a picture; will hew down the sick, the helpless,
and the hoary-headed, but refrain from injuring
a. fine piece of sculpture. The Latins, on their
entrance into Constantinople, respected neither the
works of God nor man, but vented their brutal
ferocity upon the one and satisfied their avarice
upon the other. Many beautiful bronze statues,
above i\H price as works of art, were broken into
pieces to be sold as old metal. The finely-chisel-
led marble, which could be put to no such vile
uses, was also destroyed, with a recklessness, if
possible,·still more atrocious.•
• The following is a list of some of the works of art thus de-
atroyed, ftom Nicetas, a contemporary Greek author:- lat. A co-
loaaal Juno, from the forum of Constantine, the head of which waa
ao large that four horses could scarcelydraw it from the place where
it stood to the palace. S!d. The statue of Paris presenting the apple
to Venus. Sd. An immense bronze pyramid, crowned by a female
figure, which turned with the wind. 4th. The colossal statue of
Bellerophon., in bron2e, which was broken down and cast into the
furnace. Under the inner nail of the horse's hind foot on the left
side, was found a seal wrapped in a woollen cloth. 5th. A figure
of Hercules, by Lysimachus, ofsuch vast dimensions that the thwnb
THE CRUSADES. 191
The carnage being over, and the spoil distri-
buted, six persons were chosen from among the
Franks and six from among the Venetians, who
were to meet and elect an Emperor, previously
binding themselves by oath to select the individual
best qualified among the candidates. The choice
wavered between Baldwin, Count of Flanders, and
Boniface, Marquis of Montferrat, but fell eventu-
ally upon the former. He was straightway robed
in the imperial purple, and became the founder
of a new dynasty. He did not live long to enjoy
his power, or to consolidate it for his successors,
who, in their turn, were soon swept away. In less
than sixty years the rule of the Franks at Con-
stantinople was brought to as sudden and disas-
trous a termination as the reign of Murzuphlis :
and this_
_was the grand result of the fifth Cru-
sade.
Pope Innocent Ill, although he had looked with
no very unfavourable eye upon these proceedings,
regretted that nothing had been done for tbe relief
of the Holy Land; still, upon every convenient
was equal in circumference to the waist of a man. Gth. The Ass
and his driver, cast by order ofAuguatua after the battle ofActium,
in commemoration ofliis having discovered the'position of Antony
through the means of an ass-driver:. 7th. The Wolf suckling the
twins of .Rome. 8th.. The Gladiator in combat with a lion. 9th.
The Hippopotamus. 1Oth. The Sphinxes. 11th. Ah eagle fight·
ing with a serpent. l!th. A beautiful statue of Helen. 18th. A
group, with a monster somewhat resembling a bull, engaged in
deadly conflict with a serpent; and many other works of art, too
numerous to mention.
K2
j 1 ' I
182 THE CRUSADES.
occasion, he enforced the necessity of·a new Cru~
sade. Until the year 1213, his exhortations had
no other effect than to keep the subject in the
mind of Europe. Every spring and summer, de-
tachments of pilgrims continued to set out for Pa-
lestine to the aid of their brethren, but not in
sufficient numbers to be of much service. These
periodical passages were called the pusagium Mar-
Iii, or the passage of March, and the puaagium
Johannia, or the passage of the festival of St. John.
These did not consist entirely of soldiers, armed
against the Saracen, but of pilgrims led by devo-
tion, and in performance of their vows, bearing
nothing with them but their·staff and their wallet.
Early in the spring of 1213 a more extraordinary
body of crusaders was raised .in France and Ger-
many. An immense number of boys and girls,
amounting, according to some accounts, to thirty
thousand, were incited by the persuasion of two
monks to undertake the journey to Palestine.
They were, no doubt, composed of the idle and
deserted children who generally swarm in great
cities, nurtured in vice and daring, and ready for
anything. The object of the monks seems to have
been the atrocious one of inveigling them into
slave ships, on pretence of sending them to Syria,
and selling them for slaves on the coast of Africa.•
Great numbers of these poor victims were ship-
ped at Marseilles; but the vessels, with the ex-
• See J~ob de Voragine and Albcricus.
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. ISS
ception of two or three, were wrecked on the
shores of Italy, and every soul perished. The
remainder arrived safely in Africa, and were bought
up as· slaves, and sent off into the interior of the
country. Another 4etachment arrived at Genoa;
but the accomplices in this horrid plot having taken
no measures at that port, expecting them all at
Marseilles, they were induced to return to their
homes by the Genoese.
Fuller, in his quaint history ofthe "HolyWarre,»
says that this Crusade was done by the instinct
of the devil ; and he ad.ds a reason, which may pro-
voke mirth now, but which was put forth by the
worthy historian in all soberness and sincerity.
He says, u the devil, being cloyed with the murder-
ing of men, desired a cordial of children's blood
to comfort his weak stomach;" as epicures, when
tired of mutton, resort to lamb for a change.
It appears from other authors that the preach-
ing of the vile monks had such an effect upon these
deluded children that they ran about the country•
exclaiming, " 0, Lord Jesus, restore thy cross to
us !,, and that neither bolts nor bars, the fear of
fathers, nor the love of mothers, was sufficient to
restrain them from journeying to Jerusalem.
The details of these strang,e proceedings are
exceedingly meagre and confused, and none of the
contemporary writers who mention the subject have
thought it worth while to state the names of the
monks who originated the scheme, or the fate they
THE CRUSADES.
met for their wickedness. Two merchants of Mar-
seilJes, who were to have shared in the profits.
were, it is said, brought to justice for some other
crime, and suffered death ; but we are not in'1
formed whether they divulged any circumstances
relating to this matter.
Pope.Innocent III. does not seem to have been
aware that the causes of this juvenile Crusade were
such as have been stated, for, upon being informed
that numbers of them had taken the Cross, and
were marching to the Holy Land, he exclaimed,
u These children are awake, while we sleep!" He
imagined, apparently, that the mind of Europe was
still bent on the recovery of Palestine, and that the
zeal of these children implied a sort of reproach
upon his own lukewarmness. Very soon afterwards,
he bestirred himself with more activity, and sent.
an encyclical letter to the clergy of Christendom~
urging them to preach a new Crusade. As usual,
a number of adventurous nobles, who had nothing
else to do, enrolled themselves with their retai·ners..
At a council of Lateran, which was held while
these bands were collecting, Innocent announced
that be himself would take the Cross, and lead
the armies of Christ to the defence of his sepulchre.
In all probability he would have done so, for he
was zealous enough ; but death stepped in, and
destroyed his project ere it was ripe. His suc-
cessor encouraged the Crusade, though be refused
to accompany it ; and the armament continued in
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. 1S5
France, England, and Germany. No leaders of
any importance joined it from the former countries.
Andrew, King of Hungary, was the only monarch
who had leisure or inclination to leave his domi-
nions. The Dukes of Austria and Bavaria joined
him with a considerable army of Germans, and
marching to Spalatro, took ship for Cyprus, and
from thence to Acre.
The whole conduct of the King of Hungary
was marked by pusillanimity and irresolution. He
found bimself in the Holy Land at the head of a
very efficient army ; the Saracens were taken by
surprise, and were for some weeks unprepared to
offer any resistance to his arms. He defeated the
first body sent to oppose him, and marched towards
Mount Tabor, with th~ intention of seizing upon
an important fortress which the Saracens had re-
cently constructed. He arrived without impedi-
ment at the Mount, and might have ea.sily taken
it ; but a sudden fit of cowardice came over him,
and he returned to Acre without striking a blow.
He very soon afterwards abandoned the enterprise
altogether, and returned to his own country.
Tardy reinforcements arrived at intenals from
Europe; and the Duke of Austria, now the chief
leader of th~ expedition, had still sufficient forces
at his command to trouble the Saracens very seri..
ously. It was resolved by him, in council with the
other chiefs, that the whole energy of the Crusade
should be directed upon Egypt, the seat of tho
186 THE CRUSADES.
Saracen power in its relationship to Palestine, and
from whence were drawn the continual levies 'that
were brought against them by the Sultan. Dami-
etta,·which commanded the river Nile, and was one
of the most important cities of Egypt, was chosen
as the first point of attack. The siege was forth-
with commenced, and carried on with considerable
energy, until the crusaders gained possession of a
tower, which projected into the middle of the
stream, and was looked upon as the very key of the
city.
While congratulating themselves upon tl1is suc-
cess, and wasting in revelry the time which should
have been employed in pushing the advantage,
they received the news of the death of the wise
Sultan Saphaddin. His two sons, Camhel and
Cohreddin, divided his empire between them. Syria
and Palestine fell to the share of Cohreddin, while
Egypt was consigned to the other brother, who
had for some time exercised the functions of Lieu-
tenant of that country. Being unpopular among
the Egyptians, they revolted against him, giving
the crusaders a finer opportunity for making a con-
quest than they had ever enj.oyed before. But,
quarrelsome and licentious as they had been from
time immemorial, they did not see that the favour-
able moment had come; or, seeing, could not profit
by it. While they were revelling or fighting among
themselves, under the walls of Damietta, the revolt
was put down, and Camhel firmly established on
THE CRUSADES. 137
the throne of Egypt. In conjunction with his
brother, Cohreddin, his next care was to drive the
Christians from Damietta, and, for upwards of
three months, they bent all their efforts to throw
in supplies to the besieged, or draw on the be-
siegers to a general engagement. In neither were
they successful ; and the famine in Damietta be-
came so dreadful, that vermin of every description
were thought luxuries, and sold for exorbitant
prices. A dead dog became more valuable than
a live ox in time ofprosperity. Unwholesome food
brought on disease, and the city could hold out no
longer, for absolute want of men to defend the
walls.
Cohreddin and Camhel were alike interested in
the preservation of so important a position, and,
convinced of the certain fate of the city, they open-
ed a conference with the crusading chiefs, offering
to yield the whole of Palestine to the Christians,
upon the sole condition of the evacuation of Egypt.
With a blindness and wrong-headedness almost in·
credible, these advantageous terms were refused,
chiefly through the persuasion of Cardinal Pela-
gius, an ignorant and obstinate fanatic, who urged
upon the Duke of Austria and the French and
English leaders, that infidels never kept their word ;
that their offers wer( deceptive, and merely in-
tended to betray. The conferences were brought
to an abrupt termination by the crusaders, and a
last attack made upon the walls of Damietta. The
ISS THE CRUSADES.
besieged made but slight resistance, for they bad
no hope, and the Christians entered the city, and
found, out of seventy thousand people, but three
thousand remaining : so fearful had been the ra-
vages of the twin fiends, plague and famine.
Several months were spent in Damietta. The
climate either weakened the frames or obscured the
understandings of the Christians; for, after their
conquest, they. lost all energy, and abandoned
themselves more unscrupulously than ever to riot
and debauchery. John of Brienne, who, by right
of his wife, was the nominal sovereign of Jerusa-
lem, was so disgusted with the pusillanimity, arro-
gance, and dissensions of the chiefs, that be with-
drew entirely from them, and retired to ·Acre.
Large bodies also returned to Europe, and Car-
dinal Pelagius was left at liberty to blast the whole
enterprise whenever it pleased him. He managed
t.o conciliate John of Brienne, and marched for-
ward with these combined forces to attack Cairo.
It was only when he had approached within a
few hours' m11rch of that city, that he discovered
the inadequacy of his army. He turned back
immediately, but the Nile had risen since his de-
parture; the sluices were opened, and there was
no means of reaching Damietta. In this strait, he
sued· for the peace he had formerly spurned, and,
happily for himself, found the generous brothers,
Camhel and Cohreddin, still willing to grant it.
Damietta was soon afterwards given up, and the
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. 139
Cardinal returned to Europe. John of Brienne
retired to Acre, to mourn the loss of his kingdom,
embittered against the folly of his pretended friends,
who had ruined where they should have aided him.
And thus ended the sixth Crusade.
The seventh was more successful. Frederic II,
Emperor of Germany, had often vowed to lead
his armies to the defence of Paleatine, but was
as often deterred from the journey by matters of
more pressing importance. Cohreddin was a mild
and enHgbtened monarch, and the Christians of
Syria enjoyed repose and toleration under his rule:
but John of Brienne was not willing to Jose his
kingdom without an effort; and the Popes in
Europe were ever willing to embroil the nations
for the sake of extending their own power. No
monarch of that age was capable of rendering more
effective assistance than Frederic ofGermany. To
inspire him with more zeal, it was proposed that
be should wed the young Princess, Violante, daugh-.
ter of John of Brienne, and heiress of the king-
dom of Jerusalem. Frederic c-onsented with joy
and eagerness. The Princess was brought from
Acre to Rome without delay, and her marriage
celebrated on a scale of great magnificence. Her
father, John of Brienne, abdicated all his rights in
favour of his son-in-law, and Jerusalem had once
more a king, who bad not only the will, but the
power, to enforce 'his claims. Preparations for the
new crusade were immediately commellced, and
140 THE CRUSADES.
in the course of six months the Emperor was at
the head of a well-disciplined army of sixty thou-
sand men. Matthew Paris informs us, that an
army of the same amount was gathered in Eng-
land; and most of the writers upon the Crusades
adopt his statement. When John of Brienne was
in England, before his daughter's marriage with
the Emperor was thought of, praying for the aid
of Henry III. and his nobles to recover his lost
kingdom, he did not meet with niuch encourage-
ment. Grafton, in his Chronicle, says, " he de-
parted again without any great comfort." But
when a man of more influence in European politics
appeared upon the scene, the English nobles·were
as ready to sacrifice themselves in the cause as they
had been in the time of Creur de Lion.
The army ofFrederic encamped at Brundusium;
but a pestilential disease having made its appear-
ance among them, their departure was delayed for
several months. In the mean time the Empress
Violante died in child-bed. John of Brienne, who
bad already repented of his abdication, and was
besides incensed against Frederic for many acts of
neglect and insult, no sooner saw the only tie
which bound them, severed by the death of his
daughter, than he began to bestir himself, and
make interest with the Pope to undo what he had
done, and regain the honorary crown he had re-
nounced. Pope Gregory the Ninth, a mao of a
proud, unconciliating, and revengeful character,
THE CRUSADES. 141
owed the Emperor a grudge for many an act of
disobedience to his authority, and encouraged the
overtures of John of Brienne more than he should
have done. Frederic, however, despised them both,
and, as soon as his army was convalescent, set sail
for Acre. He had not been many days at sea,
when he was himself attacked with the malady,
and obliged to return to Otranto, the nearest port.
Gregory, who had by this time decided in the in-
terest of John of Brienne, excommunicated the
Emperor for returning from so holy an expedition
on any pretext whatever. Frederic at first treated
the excommunication with supreme contempt ; but
when he got well, be gave his Holiness to under-
stand that he was not to be outraged with im-
punity, and sent some of his troops to ravage the
Papal territories. This, however, only made th~
matter worse, and Gregory despatched messengers
to Palestine, forbidding the faithful, under severe
pains and penalties, to hold any intercourse with
the excommunicated Emperor. Thus between them
both, the scheme which they had so much at heart
bade fair to be as effectually ruined as even the
Saracens could have wished. Frederic still con-
tinued his zeal in the Crusade, for he was now
King of Jerusalem, and fougbt for himself, and not
for Christendom, or its representative, Pope Gre-
gory. Hearing that John of Brienne was pre-
paring to leave Europe, he lost no time in taking
his own departure, and arrived safely at Acre. It
14i THE CRUSADES.
was here that he first experienced the evil effects
of excommunication. The Christians of Pales-
tine refused to aid him in any way, and looked
with distrust, if not with abhorrence, upon him.
The Templars, Hospitallers, and other knights,
shared at first the general feeling; but they were
not men to yield a blind obedience to a distant
potentate, especially when it compromised their
own interests. When, therefore, Frederic prepared
to march upon Jerusalem without them, theyjoined
his banners to a man.
It is said, that previous to quitting Europe, the
German Emperor had commenced a negotiation
with the Sultan Camhel for the restoration of the
Holy Land, and that Camhel, who was jealous of
the ambition of his brother Cohreddin, was willing ·
to stipulate to that effect, on condition of being
secured by Frederic in the possession of the more
important ·territory of Egypt. But before the
crusaders reached Palestine, Camhel was relieved
from all fears by the death .of his brother. He
nevertheless did not think it worth while to contest
with the crusaders the barren corner of the earth
which had already been dyed·with so much Chris-
tian and Saracen blood, and proposed a truce of
three years, only stipulating, in addition, that the
Moslems should be allowed to worship freely in
the Temple of Jerusalem. This happy termina-
tion did not satisfy the bigoted Christians of Pales-
tine. The tolerance they fought for themselves,
'l'HE CRUSADES. 148
they were not willing to exteud to others, and they
complained bitterly of the privilege of free worship
allowed to their opponents. Unmeri~ed good for-
tune had made them insolent., and they contested
the right of the Emperor to become a party to any
treaty, as long as he remained under the eccle-
siastical ban. Frederic was disgusted with his
new subjects; but, as the Templars and Hos-
pitallers remained true to him, he marched to
Jerusalem to be crowned. All the churches were
shut against him, and be could not even iind
a priest to officia~e at his coronation. He had
despised the Papal authority too long to quail at
it now, when it was so unjustifiably exerted, and,
as there was nobody to crown him, he very wisely
·crowned himself. He took the royal diadem from
the altar with his own hands, and boldly and
proudly placed it on his brow. No shouts of an
applauding populace made the welkin ring, no
hymns of praise and triumph resounded from the
ministers of religion ; but a thousand swords start-
ed from the.
ir scabbards, to testify that their owners
would defend the new monarch to the death.
It was hardly to be expected that be would
renounce for any Jong period the dominion of his
native land for the uneasy crown and barren soil
of ~alestine., He bad seen · quite enough of his
new subjects before he was six months among
them, and more important interests called him
home. John of Brienne, openly leagued with Pope
THE CRUSADES.
Gregory against him, was actually employed in
ravaging his territories at the head of a papal army.
This inteiJigence decided his return. As a pre-
liminary step, he made those who had contemned
his authority feel, to their sorrow, that he was
their master. He then set sail, loaded with the
curses of Palestine. And thus ended the seventh
Crusade, which, in spite of every obstacle and dis-
advantage, bad been productive of more real ser-
vice to the Holy Land than any that had gone
before; a result solely attributable to the bra'tery of
Frederic and the generosity of the Sultan Camhel.
Soon after the Emperor's departure a new claim-
ant started for the throne of Jerusalem, in the
person of Alice, Queen of Cyprus, and half-sister
of the Mary who, by her marriage, had transferred
her right to John of Brienne. The grand military
orders, however, clung to Frederic, and Alice was
obliged to withdraw.
So peaceful a termination to the Crusade did not
give unmixed pleasure in Europe. The chivalry
of France and England were unable to rest, and
long before the conclusion of the truce, were col-
lecting their armies for an eighth expedition. In
Palestine, also, the contentment was far from uni-
versal. Many petty Mahomedan states in the im-
mediate vicinity were not parties to the truce,
and harassed the frontier towns incessantly. The
Templars, ever turbulent, waged bitter war with
the Sultan of Aleppo, and in the end were
THE CRUSADES. 145
almost exterminated. So great was the· slaughter
among them that Europe resounded with the sad
story of their fate, and many a noble knight took
arms to prevent the total destruction of an order
associated with so many high and inspiring remem-
brances. Camhel, seeing the preparations that
were making, thought that his generosity had been
sufficiently shown, and the very <lay the truce was
at an end assumed the offensive, and marching
forward to Jerusalem took possession of it, after
routing the scanty forces of the Christians. Be-
fore this intelligence reached Europe a large body
of crusaders was on the march, headed by the
King of Navarre, the Duke of Burgundy, the
Count de Bretagne, and other leaders. On their
arrival, they learned that Jerusalem had been
taken, but that the Sultan was dead, and his
kingdom torn by rival claimants to the supreme
power. The dissensions of their foes ought to
have made them united, but, as in all previous
Crusades, each feudal chief was master of his own
host, and acted upon his own responsibility, and
without reference to any general plan. The con-
sequence was that nothing could be done. A tem-
porary advantage was gained by one leader, who
had no means of improving it, while another was
defeated, without means of retrieving himself.
Thus the war lingered till the battle of Gaza,
when the King of Navarre was defeated with great
loss, and compelled to save himself from total de·
VOL, II. L
( I,, 0 •I
146 THE CRUSADES.
struction by entering into a hard and oppressive
treaty with the Emir of Karac.
At this crisis aid arrived from England, com-
manded by Richard Earl of Cornwall, the name-
sake of Creur de Lion, and inheritor of his valour.
His army was strong, and full of hope. They had
confidence in themselves and in their leader, and
looked like men accustomed to victory. Their
· coming changed the aspect of affairs. The new
Sultan of Egypt was at war with the Sultan of
Damascus, and had not forces to oppose two ene-
mies so powerful. He therefore sent messengers
to meet the English Earl, offering an exchange
of prisoners and the complete cession of the Holy
Land. Richard, who bad not come to fight for
the mere sake of fighting, agreed at once to terms
so advantageous, and became the deliverer of Pa-
lestine without striking a blow. The Sultan of
Egypt then t_!Jrned his whole force against his
Moslem enemies, and the Earl of Cornwall re-
turned to Europe. Thus ended the eighth Cru-
sade, the most beneficial of all. Christendom had
no further pretence for sending her :fierce levies
to the East. To all appearance, the holy wars
were at an end : the Christians had entire pos-
session of Jerusalem, Tripoli, Antioch, Edessa,
Acre, Jaffa, and, in fact, of nearly all Judea; and,
could they have been at peace among themselves,
they might have overcome, without great difficulty,
the jealousy and hostility of their neighbours. A
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. lt'T
circumstance, as unforeseen as it was disastrous,
blasted this fair prospect, and Teillumed, for the
last time, the fervouT and fury of the Crusades.
Gengis Khan and his successors had swept over
Asia like a tropical storm, overturning in their
progress the landmarks of ages. Kingdom after
kingdom was cast down as they issued, innume-
rable, from the far recesses of the North and
East, and, among others, the empire of Korasmin
was overrun by these all-conquering hordes. The
Korasmins, a fierce, uncivilized race, thus driven
from their homes, spread themselves, in their turn,
over the south of Asia with fire and sword, in
search of a resting place. In their impetuous
course they directed themselves towards Egypt,
whose Sultan, unable to withstand the swarm that
had cast their longing eyes on the fertile valleys
of the Nile, endeavou·red to turn them from their
course. For this purpose, he sent emissaries to
Barbaquan, their leader, inviting them to settle
in Palestine ; and the offer being accepted by the
wild horde, they entered the country before the
Christians received the slightest intimation of their
coming. It was as sudden as it was overwhelm-
ing. Onwards, like the simoom, they came, burn-
ing and slaying, and were at the waiJs of Jerusa-
lem before the inhabitants had time to look round
them: Theyspared neither life nor property; they
slew women and children, and priests at the altar,
and profaned even the graves of those who had
L2
148 THE CRUSADES.
slept for ages. They tore down every vestige of
the Christian faith, and committed horrors unpa-
ralleled in the history of warfare. About seven
thousand of the inhabitants of Jerusalem sought
safety in retreat; but before they were out of
sight, the banner of the Cross was hoisted upon
the walls by the savage foe to decoy them back.
The artifice was but too successful. The poor
fugitives imagined that help had arrived from an-
other direction, and turned back to regain their
homes. Nearly the whole ofthem were massacred,
and the streets of Jerusalem ran with blood.
·The Templars, Hospitallers, and Teutonic
knights forgot their long and bitter animosities,
and joined hand in hand to rout out this desolating
foe. They intrenched themselves in Jaffa with aU
the chivalry of Palestine that yet remained, and
endeavoured to engage the Sultans of Emissa and
Damascus to assist them against the common
enemy. The aid obtained from the Moslems
amounted at first to only four thousand men, but
with these reinforcements Walter of Brienne, the
Lord of Jaffa, resolved to give battle to the Koras-
mins. The conflict was as deadly as despair on the
one side, and unmitigated ferocity on the other;
could make it. It lasted with varying fortune for
two days, when the Sultan of Emissa fled to his
fortifications, and Walter of Brienne ~ell into the
enemy's hands. The brave knight was suspended
by the arms to a cross in sight ofthe walls of_
Jaffa,
THE CRUSADES.
and the Korasminian leader declared that he should:
remain in that position until the city surrendered..
Walter raised his feeble voice, not to advise sur-
render, but to command his soldiers to bold out to
the last. But his gallantry was unavailing. So
great had been the slaughter, that out of the grand
array of knights, there now remained but sixteen
Hospitallers, thirty-three Templars, and three Teu-·
tonic cavaliers. These with the sad·remnant of the
army fled to Acre, and the Korasmins were masters
of Palestine.
The Sultans of Syria preferred tbe Christians to·
this fierce horde for their neighbours. Even the
Sultan of Egypt began to regret the aid he had·
given to such barbarous foes. and u·nited with those
of Emissa and Damascus to root them from the land:
The Korasmins amounted to but twenty thousand
men, and were unable to resist the determined hos-·
tility which encompassed them on every side~ The
Sultans defeated them in several engagements, and
the peasantry rose up in masses to take vengeance.
upon them. Gradually their numbers were dimin-
ished. No mercy was shown them in defeat. Bar-
baquan, their leader, was slain, and after five.years
of desperate struggles they were finally extirpated,
and Palestine became once more the territory of.the
Mussulmans.
A short time previou~ to this devastating irrup-
tion, Louis IX. fell sick in Paris, and dreamed in
the delirium ·of his fever that he saw the Christian.
150 THE CRUSADES.
and Moslem hosts fighting before Jerusalem, and
the Christian~ defeated with great slaughter. The
dream made a great impression on his superstitious
mind, and he made a solemn vow that if ever he
l'ecovered his health, he would take a pilgrimage to
the Holy Land. When the news of the misfortunes
of Palestine, and the awful massacres at Jerusalem
and Jaffa, arrived in Europe, St. Louis remembered
him of his dream. More persuaded than ever, that
it was an intimation direct from Heaven, he pre-
pared to take the Cross at the head ofhis armies,
and maTch to the deliverance of the Holy Sepulchre.
From that moment he doffed the royal mantle of
purple and ermine, and dressed in the sober serge
becoming a pilgrim. All his thoughts were directed
to the fulfilment of his design, and although his
kingdom could but ill spare him, he made every
preparation to leave it. Pope Innocent IV. ap-
plauded his zeal and afforded him every assistance.
He wrote to Henry III. of England to forward the
cause in his dominions, and called upon the clergy
and laity all over Europe to contribute towards it.
William Longsword, the celebrated Earl of Salis-
bury, took the Cross at the head of a great number
of valiant knights and soldiers. But the fanaticism
of the people was not to be awakened either in
France or England. Great armies were raised, but
the masses. no longer sympathized. Taxation had
been the great cooler of zeal. It was no longer a
disgrace even to a knight if he refused to take the
THE CRUSADES. 151
Cross. Rutebeuf, a French minstrel, who flourished
about this time (1250), composed a dialogue be~
tween a crusader and a non-crusader, which the
reader will find translated in " Way's Fabliaux.''
The crusader uses every argument to persuade the
non-crusader to take up arms, and forsake every
thing, in the holy cause ; but it is evident from the
greater force of the arguments used by the non-
crusader, that he was the favourite of the minstrel.
To a most urgent solicitation of his friend, the
1(1'A...crusade~replies,
" I read thee right, thou boldest good
To thi• same land lstraight ahould hie,
And win it back with mickle blood,
Nor gaine one foot of soil thereby.
While here dejected and forlorn,
My wife and babes are left to moum;
My goodly mansion rudely marred,
All trusted to my dogs to guard.
But I, fair comrade, well I wot
An ancient saw, ofpregnant wit,
Doth bid us keep what we have got,
And troth I mean to follow it."
This being the general feeling, it is not to be won-
dered at that Louis IX. was occupied fully three
years in organizing his forces, and in making the
necessary preparations for his departure. When
all was ready he set sail for Cyprus, accompanied
by his Queen, his two brothers, the Counts d'Anjou
and d'Artois, and a long train of the noblest
chivalry of France. His third brother, the Count
de Poitiers, remained behind to collect another
j 1 ' I
152 THE CRUSADES.
corps of crusaders, and followed him in a few
months afterwards. The army united at Cyprus,
and amounted to fifty thousand men, exclusive of
·the English crusaders under William Longsword.
Again, a pestilential disease made its appearance,
~o which many hundreds fell victims. It was in
consequence found necessary to remain in Cyprus
until the apring. Louis then embarked for Egypt
with his whole host; but a violent tempest separated
his fleet, and be arrived before Damietta with only
a few thousand men. They were, however, im-
petuous and full of hope; and although th~ Sultan
Melick Shah was drawn UP. on the shore with a
force infinitely superior, it was resolved to attempt
a landing without waiting the arrival of the rest of
the army. Louis himself in wild impatience sprang
from his boat, and waded on shore ; while his army,
inspiredby his enthusiastic bravery, followed, shout-
ing the old war-cry of the first crusaders, Dieu /e
veut ! Dieu le veut ! A panic seized the Turks.
A body of their cavalry attempted to bear down
upon the crusaders, but the knights fixed their
large shields deep in the sands of the shore. and
rested their lances upon them., so that they pro-
jected above, and formed a barrier so imposing.,
that the Turks, afraid to breast it, turned round
and fairly took to flight. At the moment of this
panic, a false report was spread in the Saracen
host, that the Sultan had been slain. The confu-
sion immediately became general- the deroute was
THE CRUSADES. 153
complete : Damietta itself was abandoned, and the
same night the victorious crusaders fixed their head-
quarters in that city. The soldi_
ers who had been
separated from their chief by the tempest, arrived
shortly afterwards ; and Louis was in a position
to justify the hope, not only of the conquest of
Palestine_, but of Egypt itself.
. But too much confidence proved the bane of his
army.· They thought, as they bad accomplished
so much, that nothing more remained to be done,
and gave themselves up to ease and luxury. When,
by the command of Louis, the.y marched towards
Cairo, they were no longer the same men ; success,
instead ofinspiring, had unnerved them ; debauch-
ery had brought on disease, and disease was ag-
gravated by the heat of a climate to which none
of them were accustomed. Their progress towards
Massoura, on the road to Cairo, was checked by
the Thanisian canal, on the banks of which the
Saracens were drawn up to dispute the passage.
Louis gave orders that a bridge should be thrown
across; and the operations commenced under cover
of two cat-castles, or high moveable towers. The
Saracens soon destroyed them by throwing quan-
tities o{Greek fire, the artillery of that day, upon
them, and Louis was forced to think of some other
means of effecting his design. A peasant agreed,
for a considerable bribe, to point out a ford where
the_army might wade across, and the Count d'Artois
was despatched with fourteen hundred meri to at-
THE CRUSADES.
tempt it, while Louis remained to face the Sara-
cens with the main body of the army. The Count
d'Artois got safely over, and defeated the detach-
ment that had been sent to oppose his landing.
Flushed with the victory, the brave Countforgot the
inferiority of his numbers, and pursued the panic-
stricken enemy into Massoura. He was now com-
pletely cut off from the aid of his brother-crusaders,
which the Moslems perceiving, took courage and
returned upon him, with a force swollen by the gar-
rison of Massoura, and by reinforcements from the
surrounding districts. The battle now became hand
to hand. The Christians fought with the energy
of desperate men; but the continually increasing
numbers of the foe surrounded them completely,
and cut off all hope, either of victory or escape.
The Count d'Artois was among the foremost of the
slain, and when Louis arrived to the rescue, the
brave advance-guard was nearly cut to pieces. Of
the fourteen hundred but three hundred remained.
The fury of the battle was now increased threefold.
The French King and his troops performed pro-.
digies of valour, and the Saracens, under the com-
mand of the Emir Ceccidun, fought as if they were
determined to exterminate, in one last decisive
effort, the new European swarm that had settled
upon their coast. At the fall of the evening dews
the Christians were masters of the field of Mas-
sours,' and flattered themselves that they were the
victors. Self-love would not suffer them to con-
THE CRUSADES. 155
fess that the Saracens had withdrawn, and no.t
retreated; but their leaders were too wofuJly con-
vinced that tha.t fatal field had completed the dis-
organization of the Christian army, and that all
hopes offuture conquest were at an end.
Impressed with this truth, the crusaders sued
for peace. The Sultan insisted upon the imme-
diate evacuation of Damietta, and that Louis him-
self should be delivered as hostage for the fulfil-
ment of the condition. His army at once refused,
and the negotiations were broken off. It was now
resolved to attempt a retreat; but the agile Sara-
cens, now in the front and now in the rear, ren-
dered it a matter ·of extreme difficulty, and cut
ofF the stragglers in great numbers. Hundreds
of them were drowned in the Nile ; and sickness
and famine worked sad ravage upon those who
escaped aU other casualties. Louis himself was
so weakened by disease, fatigue, and discourage-
ment that he was hardly able to sit upon his horse.
In the confusion of the flight he was separated
from his attendants, and left a total stranger upon
the sands of Egypt, sick, weary, and almost friend-
less. One knight, Geft'ry de Sergines, alone attend-
ed him, and led him to a miserable hut in a small
village, where for several days he lay in the hourly
expectation of death. He was at last discovered
and taken prisoner by the Saracens, who treated
him with all the honour due to his rank and all
the pity due to his misfortunes. Under their care
156 THE CRUSADES:
his health rapidly improved, and the next consi-
deration was that of his ransom.
The Saracens demanded, besides money, the
cession of Acre, Tripoli, and other cities of Pales-
tine. Louis unhesitatingly refused, and conducted
himself with so much pride and courage that the
.Sultan declared he was the proudest infidel he
·bad ever beheld. After a good deal of haggling,
the Sultan agreed to waive these conditions, and
a treaty was finally concluded. The city of Da-
mietta was restored ; a truce of ten years agreed
upon, and ten thousand golden bezants paid for
the release of Louis and the liberation of all the.
captives. Louis then withdrew to Jaffa, and spent
two years in putting that city, and Cesarea, with
the other possessions of the Christians in Pales-
tine, into a proper litate of defence. He then
returned to his own country, with great reputa-.
tion as a saint, but very little as a soldier.
Matthew Paris informs us that, in the year
1250, while Louis was in Egypt, u thousands of
the English were resolved to go to the holy war,
had not the King strictly guarded his ports and
kept his people from running out of doors.''
When the news arrived of the reverses and cap-
tivity of the French King, their ardour cooled;
and the Crusade was sung of only, but not
spoken of.
In France, a very different feeling was the re.
:mit. The news of the King's capture spread con-
j 1 ' I
THE CRUSADES. 157
stemation through the country; A fanatic monk
of Citeaux. suddenly appeared in the villages;
preaching to the people, and announcing that the
Holy Virgin, accompanied by a whole army of
saints and martyrs, had appeared to him, and com-
manded him to stir up the shepherds and farm
labourers to the defence of the Cross. To theoi
only was his discourse addressed, and his eloquence
was such that thousands flocked around him, ready
to follow wberever he should lead. The pastures
and the corn-fields were deserted, and the shep-
·herdsJ or pastoureau:r, as they were termed, became
at last so numerous as to amount to upwards of
fifty thousandJ-Mil1ot says one hundred thousand·
men.• The Queen Blanche, who governed as Re-
gent during the absence of the King, encouraged
at flrst the armies of the pastou1·eawr; but they
soon gave way to such vile excesses that the peace-
ably disposed were driven to resistance. Robbery,
murder, and violation marked their path; and all
good men, assisted by the government, united in
putting them down. They were finally dispersed,
but not before three thousand of them had been
massacred. Many authors say that the slaughter
was still greater.
The ten years' truce concJuded in 1264, and
St. Louis was urged by two powerful motives to
undertake a second expedition for the relief of
• Elemene de l'Histoire de France.
158 THE CRUSADES.
Palestine. These were fanaticism on the one hand,
and a desire of retrieving his military fame on the
other, which had suffered more than his parasites
liked to remind him of. The Pope, of course,
encouraged his design, and once more the chivalry
of Europe began to bestir themselves. In 1~68,
Edward, the heir of the English monarchy, an-
nounced his determination to join the Crusade ;
and the Pope (Clement IV.) wrote to the pre-
lates and clergy. to aid the cause by their per-
suasions and their revenues. In England, they
agreed to contribute a tenth of their possess_
ions ;
and by a parliamentary order, a twentieth was
taken from the corn and moveables of all the laity
at Michaelmas.
In spite of the remonstrances of the few clear-
beaded statesmen who surrounded him, urging the
ruin that might in consequence fall upon his then
prosperous kingdom, Louis made every prepara-
tion for his departure. The warlike nobility were
nothing loth, and in the spring of 1270, the King
set sail with an army of sixty thousand men. He
was driven by stress of weather into Sardinia, and
while there, a change in his plans took place.
Instead of proceeding to Acre, as he originally
intended, he shaped his course for Tunis, on the
African coast. The King of Tunis had some time
previously expressed himself favourably disposed
towards the Christians and their religion, and
Louis, it appears, had hopes of converting him,
THE CRUSADES. 159
and securing his aid against the Sultan of Egypt.
u What honour would be mine," he used to say,
,,, if I could become godfather to this Mussulman
King." Filled with this idea he landed in Africa,
near the site of the city of Carthage, but found
that he had reckoned without his host. The King
of Tnnis had no thoughts of renouncing his reli-
gion, nor intention of aiding the Crusaders in any
way. On the contrary, he opposed their landing
with all the forces that could be collected on so
sudden an emergency. The French, however, made
good their first position, and defeated the Moslems
with considerable Joss. They also gained some ad-
vantage over the reinforcements that were sent
to oppose them ; but an infectious flux appeared
in the army, an_
d put a stop to all future victories.
The soldiers died at the rate of a hundred in a day.
The enemy, at the same time, made as g~eat havoc
as the plague. St. Louis himself was one of the
first attacked by the disease. His constitution had
been weakened by fatigues, and even before .he left
France he was unable to bear the full weight of
his armour. It was soon evident to his sorrow-
ing soldiers that their beloved monarch could not
long survive. He lingered for some days, and died
in Carthage, in the fifty-sixth year of his age,
deeply regretted by his army and his subjects, and
leaving behind him one of the most singular re-
putations in history. He is the model-king of
ecclesiastical writers, in whose eyes his very de-
160 THE CRUSADES.
fects became virtues, because they were manifested
in furtherance of their cause. More unprejudiced
historians, while they condemn his fanaticism, ad-
mit that he was endowed with many high and
rare qualities ; that he was in no one point behind
his age, and, in many, in advance of it.
His brother, Charles of Anjou, in consequence
nf a revolution in Sicily, had become King of that
country. Before he heard of the death of Louis,
be had sailed from Messina with large reinforce-
ments. On his landing near Carthage, he ad-
vanced at the head of his army, amid the martial
music of drums and trumpets. He was soon in·
formed how inopportune was his rejoicing, and
shed tears before his whole army; such as no war-
rior would have been ashamed to shed. A peace
was speedily agreed upon with the King of Tunis,
and the armies of France and Sicily returned to
their homes.
So little favour had the Crusade found in Eng-
land, that even the exertions of the heir to the
throne had only collected a small force of fifteen
hundred men. With these few Prince Edward
sailed from Dover to Bourdeaux, in the expectation
that he would find the French King in that city.
St. Louis, however, had left a few weeks previ-
ously; upon which Edward followed him to Sar-
dinia, and afterwards to Tunis. Before his arrival
in Africa, St. Louis was no more, and peace had
been concluded between France and Tunis. He
TilE CRUSADES. 161
determined, however, not to relinquish the Cru•
sade. Returning to Sicily, he passed the winter
in that country, and endeavoured to augment his
little army. ln the spring he set sail for Pales-
tine, and arrived in safety at Acre. The Chris-
tians were torn, as usual, by mutual jealousies and
animosities. The two great military orders were
as virulent and as intractable as ever; opposed to
each other, and to all the world. The arrival of
Edward bad the effect of causing them to lay aside
their unworthy contention, and of uniting heart to
heart, in one last effort for the deliverance of their
adopted country. A force of six thousand effective
warriors was soon formed to join those of tbe Eng-
lish prince, and preparations were made for the
renewal of hostilities. The Sultan, Bibars or Ben-
docdar,• a fierce Mamluke, who had been placed
on the throne by a bloody revolution, was at war
with all his neighbours, and unable, for that reason,
to concentrate his whole strength against them.
Edward took advantage of this ; and marching
. boldly forward to Nazareth, defeated the Turks
and gained possession of that city. Tbi!l was the
whole amount of his successes. The hot weather
engendered disease among his troops, arid he him-
self, the life and soul of the expedition, fell sick
among the first. He had been ill for some time,
• Mills, in his history, gives the name of this chiefns "AI Ma-
lek al Dhaker Rokneddin Abulfeth Bibats al Ali al Bundokdati al
Salehi."
VOL. II.
j 1 ' I
161 THE CRUSADES.
and was slowly recovering, when a messenger de-
sired to speak with him on important matters,
and to deliver some despatches into his own hand.
While the Prince was occupied in examining them,
the traitorous messenger drew a dagger from his
belt, and stabbed him in the breast. The wound
fortunately was not deep, and Edward had re-
gained a portion of his strength. He struggled
with the assassin, and put him to death with his
own dagger, at the same time calling loudly for
assistance.• His attendants came at his call, and
found him bleeding profusely, and ascertained on
inspection that tbe dagger was poisoned. Means
were instantly taken to purify the wound; and an
antidote was sent by the Grand Master of the Tem-
plars which removed all danger from the effects of
the poison. Camden, in his history, has adopted
the more popular, and certainly more beautiful,
version of this story, which says that the Princess
Eleonora, in her love for her gallant husband,
sucked the poison from his wound at the risk of
her own life: to use the words of old Fuller, "It
is a pity so pretty a story should not be true ; and
that so sovereign a remedy as a woman's tongue,
anointed with the virtue of loving affection," should
not have performed the good deed.
• The reader will recognise the incident which Sir Walter Scott
has introduced into his beautiful romance, u The Talisman,'' and
which, with the licence claimed by poets and romancers, he repre-
sents as having befallen King Richard I.
THE CRUSADES. 168
Edward suspected, and doubtless not without
reason, that the assassin was employed by the Sul-
tan of Egypt. But it amounted to suspicion only ;
and by the sudden death of the assassin, the prin-
cipal clue to the discovery of the truth was lost for
ever. Edward, on his recovery, prepared to resume
the offensive ; but the Sultan, embarrassed by the
defence of interests which, for the time being,
he considered of more importance, made offers of
peace to the crusaders. This proof of weakness
on the part of the enemy was calculated to render
a man of Edward's temperament more anxious to
prosecute the war; but he had also other interests
to defend. News arrived in Palestine of the death
of his father, King Henry III; and his presence
being necessary in England, be agreed to the terms
of the Sultan. These were, that the Christians
should be allowed to retain their possessions in the
Holy Land, and that a truce of ten years should
be proclaimed. Edward then set sail for England ;
and thus ended the last Crusade.
The after-fate of the Holy Land may be told in
a few words. The Christians, unmindful of their
past sufferings and of the jealous neighbours they
had to deal with, first broke the truce by plun-
dering some Egyptian traders near Margat. The
Sultan immediately revenged the outrage bytaking
possession of Margat, and war once more raged
between the nations. Margat made a gallant de-
fence, but no reinforcements arrived from Europe
M2
164 THE CRUSADES.
to prevent its fall. Tripoli was the next, and other
cities in succession, until at last Acre was the only
city of Palestine that remained in possession of the
Christians.
The Grand Master of the Templars collected·
together his small and devoted band ; and with the
trifling aid afforded by the King of Cyprus, pre-
pared to defend to the death the last possession
of his order. Europe was deaf to his cry for aid,
the numbers of the foe were overwhelming, and
devoted bravery was of uo avail. In that disas-
trous siege the Christians were all but extermi-
nated. The King of Cyprus fled when be saw that
resistance was vain, and the Grand Master fe11 at
the head of his knights, pierced with a hundred
wounds. Seven Templars, and as many Hospital-
lers, alone escaped from the dreadful carnage. The
victOTious Moslems then set fire to the city, and
the rule of the Christians in Palestine was brought
to a dose for ever.
This intelligence spread alarm and sorrow among
the clergy of Europe, who endeavoured to rouse
once more the energy and enthusiasm of the na-
tions, in the cause of the Holy Land: but the
popula:t: mania had run its career ; the spark of
zeal had burned its appointed time, and was never
again to be re-illumined. Here and there a so1i-
tary knight announced his determination to take
up arms, and now and then a king gave cold en-
couragement to the scheme ; but it dropped almost
THE CRUSADES. 165
as soon as spoken of, to be renewed again, still ·
more feebly, at some longer interval.
Now what was the grand result of all these
struggles 1 Europe expended millions of her trea..
sures, and the blood of two millions of her chil-
dren; and a handful of quarrelsome knights re-
tained possession of Palestine for about one hun-
dred years ! Even had Christendom retained it
to this day, the advantage, if confined to that,
would have been too dearly purchased. But not-
withstanding the fanaticism that originated, and
the folly that conducted them, the Crusades were
not productive of unmitigated evil. The feudal
chiefs became better members of society, by com-
ing in contact, in Asia, with a civilization superior
to their own ; the people secured some small in-
stalments of their rights; kings, no longer at war
with their nobility, had time to pass some good
laws; the human mind learned some little wisdom
from hard experience, and, casting off the slough
of superstition in which the Roman clergy had so
long enveloped it, became prepared to receive the
·seeds of the approaching Reformation. Thus did
the all-wise Disposer of events bring good out
of evil, and advance the civilization and ultimate
happiness of the nations of the West, by means of
the very fanaticism that bad led them against the
East. But the whole subject is one of absorbing
interest ; and if carried fulJy out in all its bearings,
would consume more space than the plan of this
166 THE CRUSADES.
work will allow. The philosophic student will
draw his own conclusions; and he can have no
better field for the exercise of his powers than
this European madness; its advantages and dis·
advantages; its causes and results.
167
THE WITCH MANIA.
What wrath ofgods, or wicked influence
Of tears, conspiring wretched men t' affiiot,
Hath pour'd on earth this noyous pestilence,
That mortal minds doth inwardly infect
With love of blindneu and of ignorance1
Spencers Tears qftne Mzae1.
Countrymen. Hang her !-beat her !-kill her!
Jrutice. How now 1 Forbear this violence I
Mother SatrJyer. A crew ofvillains-a knot ofbloody hangmen !
set to torment me !-1 know not why.
Justice. Alas ! neighbour Banks, are you a ringleader in mis-
chief? Fie I to abuse an aged womanI
Bank&. Woman 1--a she hell-cat, a witch! To prove her one,
we no eooner set fire on the thatch of her house, but in she came
running, as ifthe Devil had sent her in a barrel of gunpowder.
Furd'1 Witch qf Edmonttm.
THE belief that disembodied spirit'S may be per.
mitted to revisit this world, has its foundation upon
that sublime hope of immortality, which is at once
the chief solace and greatest triumph of our rea.
son. Even if revelation did not teach us~ we feel
that we have that within us which shall never die;
and aU our experience of this Jife but makes us cling
the more fondly to that one repaying hope. But
168 THE WITCH MANIA.
in the early days of n little knowledge," this grand
belief became the source of a whole train of super-
stitions, which, in their turn, became the fount
from whence flowed a deluge of blood and horror.
Europe, for a period of two centuries and a half,
brooded upon the idea, not only that parted spirits
walked the earth to meddle in the affairs of men, but
that men had power to summon evil spirits to their
aid to work woe upon their fellows. An epjdemic
terror seized upon th.e nations ; no man thought
himself secure, either in his person or possessions,
from the machinations of the devil and his agents.
Every calamity that befell him, he attributed to a
witch. If a storm arose and blew down his barn,
it was witchcraft; if his cattle died of a murrain-
if disease fastened upon his limbs, or death entered
suddenly, and snatched a beloved face from his
hearth-they were not visitations of Providence,
but the works of some neighbouring hag, whose
~retchedness or insanity caused the ignorant to
raise their finger, and point at her as a witch.
The word was upon everybody's tongue-France,
Italy, ·Germany, England, Scotland, and the far
North, s·uccessively ran mad upon this subject~ and
for a long series of years, furnished their tribunals
with so many trials for witchcraft that other crimes
were seldom or never spoken of. Thousands upon
thousands of unhappy persons fell victims to this
~ruel and absurd delusion. In many cities of Ger-
many, as will be shown more fully in its due place
j 1 ' I
THE WlTCH MANIA. 169
hereafter, the average number of executions for
this pretended crime, was six hundred annually,
or two every·day, if we leave out the Sundays,
when, it is to be supposed, that even this madness
refrained from its work.·
A misunderstanding of the famous text of the
Mosaic law, "Thou shalt not suffer a witch to
live/' no doubt led many conscientious men astray,
whose superstition, warm enough before, wanted
but a little corroboration to blaze out with deso-
lating fury. In all ages of the world men have
tried to hold converse with superior beings; and
to pierce, by their means, the secrets of futurity.
In the time of Moses, it is evident that there
were impostors, who trafficked upon the credulity
of mankind, and insulted the supreme majesty
of the true God by pretending to the power of
divination. Hence ·.the law which Moses, by
Divine ·command, promulgated against these cri-
minals; but it did not follow, as the superstitious
monomaniacs of the middle ages imagined, that
the Bible established the existence of the power
of divination by its edicts against those who pre-
tended to it. From the best authorities, it appears
that the Hebrew word, which has been rendered,
vemftca, and witch, means a poisoner and divineress
-a dabbler in spells, or fortune-teller. The modern
witch was a very different character, and joined to
her pretended power of foretelling future events
that of working evil upon the life, limbs, and pos-
j 1 ' I
I
\ ,
170 THE WITCH MANIA.
sessions of mankind. This power was only to be
.acquired by an express compact, signed in blood,
with the devil himself, by which the wizard or
witch renounced baptism, and sold his or her im-
mortal soul to the evil one_, without any saving
clause of redemption.
There are so many wondrous appearances in
nature, for which science and philosophy cannot,
even now, account, that it is not surprising that,
when natural laws·were still Jess understood, men
should have attributed to supernatural agency
every appearance which they could not otherwise
explain. The merest tyro now understands various
phenomena which the wisest of old could not fa-
thom. The schoolboy knows why, upon high moun-
tains, there should, on certain occasions, appear
three or four suns in the firmament at once; and
why the figure of a traveller. upon one eminence
should be reproduced, inverted, and of a gigantic
stature, upon another. We all know the strange
pranks which imagination can play in certain dis-
eases-that the hypochondriac can see visions and
spectres, and that there have been cases in which
men were perfectly persuaded that they were tea-
pots. Science has lifted up the veil, and rolled
away all the fantastic horrors in which our fore-
fathers shrouded these and similar cases. The
man who now imagines himself a wolf, is sent to
the hospital, insiead of to the stake, as in the day.s
of the witch mania; and earth, air1
and sea are
(
THE WITCH MANIA. 171
unpeopled of the grotesque spirits that were once
believed to haunt them.
Before entering further into the history of Witch-
craft, it may be as well if we consider the absurd
impersonation of the evil principle formed by the
monks in their legends. We must make acquaint-
ance with the primum mobile, and understand what
sort of a personage it was, who gave the witches,
in exchange for their souls, the power to torment
their fellow-creatures. The popular notion of the
devil was, that he was a large, ill-formed, hairy
sprite, with horns, a long tail, cloven feet, and
dragon1
s wings. In this shape he was constantly
brought on the stage by the monks in their
early "miracles" and "mysteries." In these re-
presentations he was an important personage, and
answered the purpose of the clown in the modern .
pantomime. The great fun for the people was to
see him well belaboured by the saints with clubs
or cudgels, and to hear him howl with pain as he
limped off, maimed by the blow of some vigorous
anchorite. St. Dunstan genera11y served him the
glorious trick for which he is renowned-catching
hold of his nose with a pair of red-hot pincers, till
"Rocks and distant della resoWlded with his cries."
Some of the saints spat in his face, to his very
great annoyance; and others chopped pieces off his
tail, which, however, always grew on again. This
was paying him in his own coin, and amused the
j 1 ' I
17i THE WITCH MANIA.
populace mightily; for they all remembered the
scurvy tricks he bad played them and their fore-
fathers. It was believed that he endeavoured to
trip people up, by laying his long invisible tail
in their way, and giving it a sudden whisk when
their legs were over it;- that he used to get
drunk, and swear like a trooper, and be so mis-
chievous in his cups as to raise tempests and earth-
quakes, to destroy the fruits of the earth and the
barns and homesteads of true believers ;-that he
used to run invisible spits into people by way of
amusing. himself in the long winter evenings, and
to proceed to taverns and regale himself with the
best, offering in payment pieces of gold which,
on the dawn of the following morning, invariably
turned into slates. Sometimes, disguised as a large
drake, he used to lurk among the bulrushes, and
frighten the weary traveller out of his wits by his
awful quack. The reader will remember the lines
of Burns in his addres.s to the 11
De'il," which so
well express the poJ>ular notion on this point-
" Ae dreary, windy1 winter night,
The stan shot down wi' sklentin light,
Wi' you. mysel, I got a fright
Ayont the lough;
Ye, like a rash·bush, stood in sight
Wi' waving sough.
« The cudgel in my nieve did shake,
Each bristled hair stood like a atalce,
When wi' an eldritch stour, ' quaiclt I quaick ! '
Among the springs
Awa ye squatter'd, lilce a dmke,
On whistling wings."
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANlA. 178
In all the·stories circulated and believed about
• him, he was represented as an ugly, petty, mis-
chievous spirit, who rejoiced in playing offall man-
ner of fantastic tricks upon poor humanity. Milton
seems to have been the first who succeeded in giv-
ing any but a ludicrous description of him. The
sublime pride which is the quintessence of evil, was
unconceived before his time. All other limners
made him merely grotesque, but Milton made him
awful. In this the monks showed themseh•es but
miserable romancers; for their object undoubtedly
was to represent the fiend as terrible as possible :
but there was nothing grand about their Satan;
on the contrary, be was a low mean devil, whom
it was easy to circumvent and fine fun to play
tricks with. But, as is well and eloquently re-
marked by a modern writer,•. the subject bas also
its serious side. An Indian deity, with its wild
distorted shape and grotesque attitude, appears
merely ridiculous when separated from its acces-
sories and viewed by daylight in a museum; but
restore it to the darkness of its own hideous tern~
ple, bring back to our recollection the victims
that have bled upon its altar, or been crushed be..
neath its car, and our sense of the ridiculous sub~
sides into aversion and horror. So, while the super-
stitious dreams of former times are regarded as
mere speculative insanities, we may be for a moment
• See article on Demonology, in the sixth volume of the" Fo-
reign Quarterly Review."
I I \ I
174 THE WITCH MANIA.
amused with the wild incoherences of the patients ;
but, when we reflect, that out of these hideous mis-
conceptions of the principle of evil arose the belief
in witchcraft-that this was no dead faith, but one
operating ou the whole being of society, urging on
the wisest and the mildest to deeds of murder, or
cruelties scarcely less than murder- that the learned
and the beautiful, young and old, male and female,
were devoted by its influence to the stake and the
scaffold--every feeling disappears, except that of
astonishment that such things could be, and humi..
liation at the thought that the delusion was as last-
ing as it was universal.
Besides this chief personage, there was an infi-
nite number of inferior demons, who played con-
spicuous parts in the creed of witchcraft. The
pages of Bekker, Leloyer, Bodin, Delrio, and De
Lancre abound with descriptions of the qualities
of these imps and the functions which were assign-
ed them. From these authors, three of whom were
commissioners for the trial of witches, and who
wrote from the confessions made by the supposed
criminals and the evidence delivered against them,
and from the more recent work of M. Jules Gari-
net, the following summary of the creed has been,
with great pains, extracted. The student who is
desirous of knowing more, is referred to the works
in question ; he will find enough in every leaf to
make his blood curdle with shame and horror : but
the purity of these pages shall not be soiled by
THE WITCH MANIA. 175
anything so ineffably humiliating and disgusting.
as a complete expQsition of them ; what is here
culled will be a sufficient sample of the popular
belief, and the reader would but lose time who
should seek in the writings of the Der.nonologists
for more ample details. He will gain nothing by
lifting the veil which covers their unutterable ob-
scenities, unless, like Sterne, he wishes to gather
fresh evidence of" what a beast man is." In that
case, he will find plenty there to convince him that
the beast would be libelled by the comparison.
It was thought that the earth swarmed with mil·
lions of demons of both sexes, many of whom, like
the human race, traced their lineage up to Adam,
who, after the fall, was Jed astray by devils, assum-
ing the forms of beautiful women to deceive him.
These demons u increased and multiplied," among
themselves, with the most extraordinary rapidity.
Their bodies were of the thin air, and they could
pass though the hardest substances with the great-
est ease. They had no fixed residence or abiding
place, but were tossed to and fro in the immensity
of space. When thrown together in great multi-
tudes, they excited whirlwinds in the air and tem-
pests in the waters, and took delight in destroying
the beauty of nature and the monuments of the
industry of man. Although they increased among
themselves like ordinary creatures, their numbers
were daily augmented by the souls of wicked men
-of children still-born- of women who died in
176 THE WITCH MAtiiA.
childbed, and of persons killed in duels. The
whole air was supposed to be full of them, and
many unfortunate men and women drew them by
thousand_
s into their mouths and nostrils at every
inspiration; and the demons, lodging in their bow-
els or other parts of their bodies, tormented them
with pains and diseases of every kind, and sent
them frightful dreams. St. Gregory of Nice relates
a story of a nun who forgot to say her benedicite,
and make the sign of the cross, before she sat down
to supper, and who, in consequence, swallowed a
demon concealed among the leaves of a lettuce.
Most persons said the number of these demons
was so great that they could not be counted, but
Wierus asserted that they amounted to no more
than seven millions, four hundred and five thou-
sand, nine hundred, and twenty-six; and that they
were divided into seventy-two companies or bat-
talions, to each of which there was a prince or cap-
tain. They could assume any shape they pleased.
When they were male~ they were called incubi;
and when female, succubi. They sometimes made
themselves hideous ; and at other times, they as-
sumed shapes of such transcendant loveliness, that
mortal eyes never saw beauty to compete with
theirs.
Although the devil and his legions could ap-
pear to mankind at any time, it was generally
understood that he preferred the night between
Friday and Saturday. If Satan himself appeared
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANIA. 177
in human shape, he was never perfectly,,and in all
respects, like a man. He was either too black or too
white-too large or too small, or some of his limbs
were out of proportion to the rest of his body.
Most commonly his feet were deformed ; and he
was obliged to curl up and conceal 'his tail in some
part of his·habiliments; for, take what shape he
would, he could not get rid of that encumbrance.
He sometimes changed himself into a tree or a
river; and upou one occasion be transformed him-
self into a barrister, as we learn from Wierus,
book IV, chapter ix. In the reign ofPhilippe le Bel,
he appeared to a monk in the shape of a dark man,
riding a tall black horse- then as a friar-after-
wards as an ass, and finally as a coach-wheel. In-
stances are not rare in which both he and his
inferior demons have taken the form of handsome
young men ; and, successfully concealing their tails,
have married beautiful young women, who have
had children by them. Such children were easily
recognizable by their continual shrieking-by their
requiring five nurses to suckle them, and by their
never growing fat.
All these demons were at the command of any
individual, who would give up his immortal soul
to the prince of evil for the privilege of enjoying
their services for a stated period. The wizard or
witch could send them to execute the moRt difficult
missions: whatever the witch commanded was per-
formed, except it was a good action, iu which case
VOL. It. N
j 1 ' I
178 TilE WITCH MANIA,.
the order \!as disobeyed, and evil worked upon her-
self instead.
At intervals, according to the pleasure of Satan,
there was a general meeting of the demons and all
the.witches. This meeting was called the Sabbath,
from its taking place on the Saturday or imme-
diately after midnight on Fridays. These Sabbaths
were sometimes held for one district, sometimes
for another, and once at least, every year, it was
held on the Brocken, or among other high moun-
tains, as a general sabbath of the fiends for the
whole of Christendom.
The devil generally chose a place where four
roads met, as the scene of this assembly. or if that
was not convenient, the neighbourhood of a lake.
Upon this spot nothing would ever afterwards grow,
as the hot feet of the demons and witches burnt the
principle of fecundity from the earth, and rendered
it barren for ever. When orders had been once
issued for the meeting of the Sabbath, all the
wizards and witches who failed to attend it were
lashed by demons with a rod made of serpents or
scorpions, as a punishment for their inattention
or want of punctuality.
In France and England, the witches were sup-
posed to ride uniformly upon broomsticks; but in
Italy and Spain, the devil himself, in the shape
of a goat, used to transport them on his back,
which lengthened pr shortened according to the
number of witches he was desirous of accommQ-
{ 1 11 )o I
TilE WITCH MANIA. 179
dating. No witch. when proceeding to the Sab-
bath, could get out by a door or window, were she
to try ever so much. Their general mode of in-
gress was by the keyhole, and of egress, by the
chimney, up which they Hew, broom and all, with
the greatest ease. To prevent the absence of the
witches from being noticed by their neighbours,
some inferior demon was commanded to assume
their shapes and lie in their beds, feigning illness,.
until the Sabbath was over. ·
When all the wizards and witches had arrived
at the place of rendezvous, the infernal ceremonies
of the Sabbath began. Satan, having assumed his
favourite shape of a large he-goat, with a face in
front and another in his haunches, took his. seat
upon a throne ; aud all present, in succession, paid
their Tespects to him, and kissed him in his face
behind. This done, be appointed a master of the
ceremonies, in company with whom he made a per-
sonal examination of all the wizards and witches,
to see whether they had the secret mark about
them by which they were stamped as the devil's
own. This mark was always insensible to pain.
Those who had not yet been marked, received
the mark from the master of the ceremonies; the
devil at the same time bestowing nicknames upon
them. This 'done, they aU began to sing and
dance in the most furious manner, until some one
arrived who was anxious to be admitted into their
society. They were then silent for a while, until
N2
(.I \ I
IRO THE WITCH MANIA.
the new-comer had denied his salvation, kissed the
devil, spat upon the Bible, and sworn obedience
to him in all things. They then began dancing
again with all their might, and singing these words,
" Alegremoa, Alegremos !
Que gente va tenemos !"
In the course of an hour or two, they generally
became wearied of this violent exercise, and then
they all sat down and recounted the evil deeds
they had done since their last meeting. Those who
had not been malicious and mischievous enough
towards their fellow-creatures, received personal
chastisement from Satan himself, who flogged them
with thorns or scorpions till they were covered with
blood, and unable to sit or stand.
When this ceremony was concluded, they were
all amused by a dance of toads. Thousands of
these creatures sprang out of the earth; and stand-
ing on their hind-legs, danced, while the devil
played the bagpipes or the trumpet. These toads
were all endowed with the faculty of speech, and
entreated the witches to reward them with the
flesh of unbaptized babes for their exertions to give
them pleasure. The witches promised compliance.
The devil bade them remember to keep their
word ; and then stamping his foot, caused all the
toads to sink into the earth in an Instant. The
place being thus cleared, preparation was made for
the banquet, where all manner of disgusting things
were served up and greedily devoured by the de..
THI!: WITCH MANIA. 181
mons and witches ; although the latter were some-
times regaled with choice meats and expensive
wines from golden plates and crystal goblets ; but
they were never thus favoured unless they bad done
an extraordiqary number of evil deeds since the
last period of meeting.
After the feast, they began dancing again ; but
such as bad no relish for any more exercise in that
way, amused themselves by mocking the holy sacra-
ment of baptism. For this purpose, the toads were
again called up, and sprinkled with filthy water;
the de.ril making the sign of the cross, and all the
witches ca1ling out, u In nomine Patric:d, Aragueaco
Petrica, agora f. agora! Valentia, jouando goure
gaits goustia !'' which meant, n In the name of
Patrick, Petrick of Aragon,-now, now, all our
ills are over t"
When the devil wished to be particularly amused,
he made the witches strip off their clothes and
dance before him, each with a cat tied round her
)leek, and anotber d~ngling from her body in form
of a tail. When the cock crew, they all disap-
peared, and the Sabbath was ended.
This is a summary of the belief which prevailed
for many centuries nearly aU over Europe, and
which is far from eradicated even at this day. It
was vari~d in some respects in several countt·ies,
but the main·points were the same in France, Ger-
many, Great Britain. Italy, Spain, and the far
North of Europe.
j I \ I
182 THE WITCH MANIA.
The early annals of France abound with stories
of supposed sorcery, but it was not until the time
of Charlemagne that the crime acquired any great
importance. "This monarch," says M. Jules Ga.
rinet,• "had several times given orders that all
necromancers, astrologers, and witches should be
driven from his states ; but as the number of cri-
minals augmented daily, he found it necessary at
last to resort to severer measures. In consequence,
he published several edicts, which may be found
at length in the ' Capitulaire de Baluse.' By
these, every sort of magic, enchantment, and witch-
craft was forbidden ; and the punishment of death
decreed against th~e who in any way evoked the
devil-compounded Jove-philters-aftlicted either
man or woman with barrenness--troubled the atmo-
sphere-excited tempests -destroyed the fruits of
the earth-dried up the milk of cows, or torment-
ed ·their fellow-creatures with sores and diseases.
All persons found guilty of exercising these execra-
ble arts, were to be executed immediately upon
conviction, .that the earth might be rid of the
burthen and curse of their presence; and those
even who consulted them might also be punished
with death.t
* " Histoire de Ia Magie en France. Rois de la 11000nde
TS.Ce," page 29. -
t M. Michaud, in his "History of the Crwiadea," M. Guin-
guene, in his "Literary History of Italy," and some other critics,
have objected to T8880'a poem, that he has attributed to the Cru-
saders a belief in magic, which did not exist at that time. If
THE WITCH MANIA. l@S
After this time, prosecutions for witchcraft are
continually mentioned, especially by the French
historians. It was a crime imputed with so much
ease, and repelled with so much difficulty, that the
powerful, whenever they wanted to ruin the weak,
and could fix no other imputation upon them, had
only to accuse them of witchcraft to ensure their
destruction. Instances, in which this crime was
made the pretext for the most violent persecution,-
both of individuals and of communities, whose real
offences were purely political or religious, must
be familiar to every reader. The extermination of
the Stedinger, in 1284; ofthe Templars, from 1807
to 1813; tbe execution of Joan of Arc, in 1429;
and the unhappy scenes of Arras, in 1459; are the
most promin~nt. The first of these is perhaps the
least known, but is not among the least remark-
able. The following account, from Dr. KortUm's
interesting history* of the republican confederacies
of the Middle Ages, will show the horrible con-
venience of imputations of witchcraft, when royal
or priestly wolves wanted a pretext for a quarrel
with the sheep.
The Frieslanders, inhabiting the district from
the Weser to the Zuydersee, had long been cele-
these critics bad referred to the Edicts of Charlemagne, they would
have seen that Tasso was right, and that a disposition too eager
to spy out imperfections in a great work wa.s leading themselves
into error.
• • << Entstehungsgeschicbte der freistadlischen Biinde im Mittel-
alter, von Dr. F . Kortum." 1827.
j 1 ' I
THE \VI'fCll ~fANlA.
brated for their attachment to freedom, and their
successful struggles in its defence. As early as the
eleventh century, they had formed a general con-
federacy against the encroachments of the Normans
and the Saxons, which was divided into seven iee-
lands, holding annually a diet under a large oak-
tree at Aurich, near the Upstalboom. Here they
managed their own affairs, without the control of
the clergy and ambitious nobles who surrounded
them, to the great scandal of the latter. They
already bad true notions of a representative go-
vernment. The deputies of the people levied the
necessary taxes, deliberated on the affairs of the
community, and performed, in their simple and
patriarchal manner, nearly all the functions of the
representative assemblies of the present day. Fi-
nally, the Archbishop of Bremen, together with
the Count of Oldenburg and other neighbouring
potentates, formed a league against that section
of the Frieslanders, known by the name of the
Stedinger, and succeeded, after harassing them,
and sowing dissensions among them for many years,
in bringing them under the yoke. But the Ste..;
dinger, devotedly attached to their ancient Jaws,
by which they bad attained a degree of civil and
religious liberty very uncommon in that age, did
not submit without a violent struggle. They arose
in insurrection, in the year 1204, in defence of the
ancient customs of their country-refused to pay
taxes to the feudal chiefs, or tithes to the clergy,
THE WITCU MANIA. 185
who had forced themselves into their peaceful re-
treats, and drove out many of their oppressors.
For a period of eight-and-twenty years the brave
Stedinger continued the struggle single-handed
against the forces of the Archbishops of Bremen
and the Counts of Oldenburg, and destroyed, in
the year 1282, the strong castle of Slutterberg,
near Delmenhorst, built by the latter nobleman
as a position from which he could send out his
marauders to plunder and destroy the possessions
of the peasantry.
The invincible courage of these poor people
proving too strong for their oppressors to cope
with, by the ordinary means of warfare, the Arch-
bishop of Bremen applied to Pope Gregory IX. for
bis spiritual aid against them. That prelate en-
tered cordia11y into the cause, and launching forth
his anathema against the Stedinger as heretics and
witches, encouraged all true believers to assist in
their extermination. A large body of thieves and
fanatics broke into their country in the year 1288,
killing and burning wherever they went, and not
sparing either women or children, the sick or the
aged, in their rage. The Stedinger, however, ral-
lied in great force, routed their invaders, and killed
in battle their leader, Count Burckhardt of Olden-
burg, with many inferior chieftains.
Again the pope was applied to, and a crusade
against the Stedinger was preached in all that
part of Germany. The pope wrote to all the
186 TilE WITCH MANIA.
bishops and leaders of the faithful an exhortation
to arm, to root out from the land those abomi~
nable witches and wizards. "The Stedinger," said
his Holiness, 11
seduced by the devil, have ab-
jured all the laws of God and man; slandered
the Church- insulted the holy sacraments- con·
suited witches to raise evil spirits-shed blood like
water -taken the lives of priests, and concocted
an infernal scheme to propagate the worship of the
devil, whom they adore under the name ofAsmodi.
The devil appears to them in different shapes;
sometimes as a goose or a duck, and at others in
the figure of a pale, black-eyed youth, with a
melancholy aspect, whose embrace fills their hearts
with eternal hatred against the holy church of
Christ. This devil presides at their Sabbaths, when
they all kiss him and dance around him. He then
envelopes them in total darkness, and they all,
male and female, give themselves up to the grossest
and most disgusting debauchery!'
In consequence of these letters of the pope, the
Emperor ofGermany, Frederic II, also pronounced
his ban against them. The Bishops of Ratzebourg,
Lubeck, Osnabriick, Munster, and Minden took
up arms to exterminate them, aided by the Duke
of Brabant, the Counts of Holland, of Cleves, of
the Mark, of Oldenburg, of Egmond, of Diest, and
many other powerful nobles. An army of forty
thousand men was soon collected, which marched~
under the command of the Duke of Brabant, intq
TliE WITCH MANIA. 187
the country of the Stedinger. The latter mustered
vigorously in defence of their lives and liberties,
but could raise no greater force, including every
man capable of bearing arms, than eleven thou.
sand men to cope against the overwhelming num-
bers of their foe. They fought with the energy
of despair, but all in vain. Eight thousand of
them were slain on the field of battle; the whole
race was exterminated ; and the enraged conque-
rors scoured the country in all directions-slew the
women and children and old men- drove away
the cattle-fired the woods and cottages, and made
a total waste of the land.
Just as absurd and effectual was the charge
brought against the Teniplars in 1807, when they
bad rendered themselves obnoxious to the poten-
tates and prelacy of Christendom. Their wealth,
their power, their pride, and their insolence bad
raised up enemies on every side; and every sort
of accusation was made against them, hut failed
to work their overthrow, until the terrible cry of
witchcraft was let loose upon them.. This effected
its object, a..nd the Templars were extirpated.
They were accused of having sold their souls to
the devil, and of celebrating .all the infernal my~
teries of the witches' Sabbath. ·It.was pretended
that, when they admitted a novice into their order,
they forced him to renounce his salvation and curse
Jesus Christ; that they then made him submit to
many unholy and disgusting ceremonies, and forced
188 nlF. WITCH MANIA.
him to kiss the Superior on the cheek, the navel,
and the breech; and spit three times upon a crucifix.
That all the members were forbidden to nave con-
nexion with women, but might give themselves up
without restraint to every species of unmelltion-
able debauchery. That when, by any mischance,
a Templar infringed this order, and a child was
born, the whole order met, and tossed it about
like a shuttlecock from one to the other until it
expired ; that they then roasted it by a slow fire,
and with the fat which trickled from it anointed
the hair and beard of a large image of the devil.
It was also said that, when one -of the knights
died, his body was burnt into a powder, and then
mixed with wine and drunk by every member of
the order. Philip IV, who, to exercise his own
implacable hatred, invented, in a11 probability, the
greater part of these charges, issued ordet's for
the immediate arrest of all the Templars in his
dominions. The pope afterwards took up the
cause with almost as much fervour as the King of
France; and in every part of Europe, the Tem-
plars were thrown into prison and their goods and
estates confiscated. Hundreds of them, when put ,
to the rack, confessed even the most preposterous
of the charges against them, and by so doing,
increased the popular clamour and the hopes of
their enemies. It is true that, when removed from
the rack, they denied all they had previously con-
fessed; but this circumstance only increased 'the
THE WITCH MANIA. 189
outcry, and was numbered as an additional crime
against them. They were considered in a worse
1ight than before, and condemned forthwith to the
flames, as relapsed heretics. Fifty-nine of these
unfortunate victims were all burned together by
a slow fire in a field in the suburbs of Paris,
protesting to the very last moment of their lives,
their innocence of the crimes imputed to them,
and refusing to accept of pardon upon condi~ion
of acknowledging themselves guilty. Similar scenes
were enacted in the provinces; and for four years,
hardly a month passed without witnessing the exe-
cution of one or more of these unhappy men~
Finally, in ISIS, the last scene of this tragedy
closed by the burning of the Grand-Master, Jacques
de Molay, and his 'companion, Guy, the Com-
mander of Normandy. Anything more atrocious
it is impossible to conceive; disgraceful alike to
the monarch who originated, the pope who sup~
ported, and the age which tolerated the monstrous
iniquity. That the malice of a few could invent
such a charge, is a humiliating thought for the
lover of his species ; but that millions of mankind
should credit it, is still more so.
The execution of Joan of Arc is the next most
notorious example which history affords us, of the
imputation of witchcraft against a political enemy.
Instances of similar persecution, in which this
crime was made the pretext for the gratification
of political or religious hatred, might be multi-
190 TUE WITCH MANIA.
plied to a great extent. But it is better to pro.
ceed at once to the consideration of the bull of
Pope Innocent, the torch that set fire to the long-
laid train, and caused so fearful an explosion over
the Christian world. It will be necessary, how-
ever, to go back for some years anterior to that
event, the better to understand the motives that
influenced the Church in the promulgation of that
fearful document.
Towards the close of the fourteenth and be-
ginning of the fifteenth century, many witches were
burned in different parts of Europe. As a natural
consequence of the severe persecution, the crime, or
the pretenders to it, increased. Those who found
themselves accused and threatened with the penal-
ties, if they happened to be persons of a bad and
malicious c:lispositionJ wished they had the power
imputed to them, that they might be revenged upon
their persecutors. Numerous instances are upon
record ofhalf-crazed persons being found muttering
the spells which were supposed to raise the evil
one. When religion and law alike recognized tho
crime, it is no wonder that the weak in reason and
the strong in imagination, especially when they
were of a ne"ous temperament, fancied themselves
endued with the terrible powers of which all the
world was speaking. The belief of their neighbours
did not lag behind their own, and execution waa
the speedy consequence.
As the fear of witchcraft increased, the Catholic
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANJA. 191
clergy strove to fix the imputation of it upon those
religious sects, the pioneers of the Reformation,
who began about this time to be formidable to the
Church of Rome." If a charge of heresy could not
ensure their destruction, that of sorcery and witch-
craft never failed. In the year 1459, a devott>d
congregation of the Waldenses_, at Arras, who used
to repair at night to worship God in their own
manner in solitary places, fell victims to an accusa-
tion of sorcery. It was rumoured in Arras that in
the desert places to which they retired, the devil
appeared before them in human form, and read
from a large book his laws and ordinances, to which
they all promised obedience ; that he then distri-
buted money and food among them, to bind them
to his service, which done, they gave themselves up
to every species oflewdness and debauchery. Upon
these rumours, several creditable persons in Arras
were seized and imprisoned, together with a num-
ber of decrepit and idiotic old women. The rack,
that convenient instrument for making the accused·
confess anything, was of course put in requisition.
Monstrelet, in his Chronicle, says that they were
tortured until some of them admitted tbe truth of
the whole accusations, and said besides, that they
bad seen and recognized, in their nocturnal assem-
blies, many persons of rank;· many prelates, seig-
neurs, governors of bailliages, and mayors of cities,·
being such names as the examiners had themselves
suggested ~ the victims~ Several who had been
192 THE WITCH MANIA.
thus informed against, were thrown into prison, and
•
so horribly tortured, that reason fled, and, in their
ravings of pain, they also confessed their midnight
meetings with the devil, and the oaths they bad
taken to serve him. Upon these confessions judg-
ment was pronounced : the poor old women, as
usual in such cases, were hanged and burned in the
market-place; the more wealthy delinquents were
allowed to escape, upon payment of large sums. It
was soon after universally recognized that these
trials bad been conducted in the most odious man-
ner, and that the judges had motives of private
vengeance against many ofthe more influential per-
sons who had been implicated. The Parliament of
Paris afterwards declared the sentence illegal, and
the judges iniquitous; but its arrU was too late
to be of service even to those who had paid the
fine, or to punish the authorities who had miscon-
ducted themselves; for it was not delivered until
thirty-iwo years after the executions had taken
place.
In the mean time, accusations of witchcraft
spread rapidly in France, Italy, and Germany.
Strange to say, that although in the first instance
chiefly directed against heretics, the latter were as
firm believers in the crime as even the CathoJics
themselves. In after times we also find that the
Lutherans and Calvinists became greater witch-
burners than ever the Romanists had been : so
deeply was the prejudice rooted. Every other point
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANIA. 198
of belief was in dispute, but that was considered by
every sect to be as well established as the authen-
ticity of the Scriptures, or the existence of a God.
But at this early period of the epidemic the per-
secutions were directed by the heads ofthe Catholic
Church. The spread of heresy betokened,·it was
,
thought, the coming ofAntichrist. Florimond, in
his work concerning the Antichrist, lets us fully
into the secret of these prosecutions. He says,
"All who have afforded us some signs of the ap-
proach of Antichrist agree that the increase of
sorcery and witchcraft is to distinguish the melan-
choly period of his advent; and was ever age so
aftlicted as ours ? The seats destined for criminals
in our courts of justice are blackened with persons
accused ofthis guilt. There are not judges enough
to try them. Our dungeons are gorged with them.
No day passes that we do not render our tribunals
bloody by the dooms which we pronounce, or in
which we do not return to our homes, discounte-
nanced and terrified at the horrible confessions
which we have heard. And the devil is accounted
so good a master, that we cannot commit so great
a number ofhis slaves to the flames, but what there
shall arise from their ashes a sufficient number to
supply their place."
Florimond here spoke the general opinion of the
Church of Rome; but it never suggested itself to
the mind ofany person engaged in these trials, that
if it were indeed a devil, who raised up so many
VOL. 11. 0
194 TH.E WITCH MANlA.
new witches .to fill the places of those consumed, it
was no other than one in their own employ-the
devil of persecution. But so it was. The more they
burned, the more they found to burn; until it be-
came a common prayer with women in the humbler
walks of life, that they might never live to grow
old. It was sufficient to be aged, poor, and ill-
tempered, to ensure death at the stake or the
.scaffold.
In the year 1487 there was a severe Storm in
Switzetland, which laid waste the country for four
miles around Constance. Two wretched old women,
whom the popular voice bad long accused of witch~
·craft, were arrested on the preposterous charge of
having raised the tempest. The rack was dis-
played, and the .two poor creatures extended upon
it. In reply to various leading questions from their
tormentors, they owned, in their agony, that they
were in the constant habit of meeting the devil,
that they had sold their souls to him, and that at
their command he had raised the tempest. Upon
this insane and blasphemous charge they were con-
demned to die. In the criminal registers of Con~
stance there stands against the name of each the
simple but significant phrase, "convicta et corw.-
busta.''
This case and hundreds of others were duly re-
.ported to theecclesiastical powers. There happened
at that time to be a Pontiff at the head of the
Church who had given much of his attention to the
THE WlTCil . MANIA. 195
subject of witchcraft, and who, with the intent of
rooting out the crime, did more to increase it tha~
any other man that ever lived. John Baptist Cibo,
elected to the Papacy in 1485, under the designa-
tion of Innocent VIll, was sincerely alarmed at the
number of witches, and launched forth his terrible
manifesto against them. In his celebrated bull of
1488, he ~ailed the nations of Europe to the rescue
of the church of Christ upon earth, emperilled by
the arts of S~tan, and set forth the hot·rors that had
reached his ears; how that numbers of both sexes
had .intercourse with the infernal fiends ; how by
their sorceries they affiicted both man and beast ;
how they blighted the marriage bed, destroyed the
births of women and the increase of cattle ; ancl
how they blasted the corn on the ground, the grapes
of the vineyard, the fruits of the trees, and the
herbs of the field. In order that criminals so atro-
cious might no longer pollute the earth, he ap-
pointed inquisitors in every country, armed with the
apostolic power to convict and punish.
It was now that the Witclt Mania, properly so
called, may be said to ha'Ve fairly commenced.
Immediately a class of men sprang up in Eul'ope,
who made it the sole business of their lives to dis-
cover and burn the witches. Sprenger, in Ger-
many, was the most celebrated of these national
scourges. In his notorious work, the u MaHeu~
Ma.leficarum," be laid down a regular form of trial,
and appointed ·a course of examination by which
0 ~
t ~·· !J,I
196 THE WITCH MANIA.
the inquisitors in other countries might best dis-
cover the guilty. The questions, which were al..
ways enforced by torture, were of the most absurd
and disgusting nature. The inquisitors were re-
quired to ask the suspected whether they had
midnight meetings with the devil ? whether they
attended the witch's sabbath on the Brocken?
whether they had their familiar spirits? whether
they could raise whirlwinds and call down the light-
ning? and whether they bad sexual intercourse with
Satan?
Straightway the inquisitors set to work ; Cu-
manus, in Italy, burned forty-one poor women in
one province alone, and Sprenger, in Germany,
burned a number which can never be ascertained cor-
rectly, but which, it is agreed on all hands, amounted
to more than five hundred in a year. The great
resemblance between the confessions ofthe unhappy
victiPlS was regarded as a new proofofthe existence
of the crime. But this is not astonishing. The
same questions from the u Malleus Maleficarum,"
were put to them all, and torture never failed to
educe the answer required by the inquisitor. Num-
bers of people whose imaginations were filled with
these horrors, went further in the way of confession
than even their tormenters anticipated, in the hope
that they would thereby be saved from the rack,
and put out of their misery at once. Some con-
fessed that they bad bad children by the devil ; but
no one, who had ever been a mother, gave utterance
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANIA. 197
to such a frantic imagining, even in the extremity of
her anguish. The childless only confessed it, and
were burned instanter as unworthy to live.
For fear the zeal of the enemies of Satan should
cool, successive Popes appointed new commissions.
One was appointed by Alexander VI, in 1494;
another by Leo X, in 15~1, and a third by Adrian
VI, in 1522. They were all armed with the same
powers to hunt out and destroy, and executed their
fearful functions but too rigidly. In Geneva alone
five hundred persons were burned in tbe years 1515
and 1516, under the title of Protestant witches.
It would appear that their chief crime was heresy,
and their witchcraft merely an aggravation. Bar-
tolomeo de Spina has a Jist still more fearfuL He
informs us that, in the year 1524, no Jess than a
thousand persons suffered death for witchcraft in
the district of Como, and that for several years
afterwards the average number of victims exceed-
ed a hundred annually. One inquisitor, Remigius,
took great credit to himself for having, during
fifteen years, convicted and burned nine hundred.
In France, about the year 15!0, fires for the
execution of witches blazed in almost every town.
Danreus, in his " Dialogues of Witches,'' says
they were so numerous that it would be next to
impossible to teJl the number of them. So deep
was the thraldom of the human mind, that the
friends and relatives of the accused parties looked
on and approved. The wife or sister of a murderer
198 THE WITCH MANlA.
might sympathise in his fate, but the wives and
husbands of sorcerers and witches had no pity.
The truth is that pity was dangerous, for it was
thought no one could have compassion on the suf-
ferings of a witch who was not a dabbler in the
art: to have wept for a witch would have insured
the stake. In some districts, boweTer, the exaspe-
ration of the people broke out, in spite of super-
stition. The inquisitor of a rural township in
Piedmont burned the victims so plentifully, and so
fast, that there was not a family in the place which
did not lose a member. The people at last arose,
and the inquisitor was but too happy to escape
from the country with whole limbs. The Arch-
bishop of the diocese proceeded afterwards to the
trial of such as the inquisitor had left in prison.
Some of the charges were so utterly preposte-
rous that the poor wretches were at once liberated ;
others met a harder, but the ut~ual fate. Some of
them were accused of having joined the witches•
dance at midnjght under a blasted oak, where they
bad been seen by creditable people. The husbands
of sever.al of these women (two of whom were young
and beautiful) :~wore positively that at the time
stated their wives were comfortably asleep in their
arn1s ; but it was all in vain. Their word was
taken, but the Archbishop told them they had been
deceived by the devil and their own senses. It
was true they might have had the semblance of
their wives in their beds, but the originals were
THE WITCH MANIA. 199
far away, at the devil's dance under the oak. Th~
honest feJlows were confounded, and their wives
burned forthwith.
In the year 1561, five poor women of Verneuil
were accused of transforming themselves into cats,
and in that shape attending the sabbath of the
fiends-prowling around Satan, who presided over
them in the form of a goat, and dancing, to amuse
him, upon his back. They were found guilty, and
burned.•
In 1564, three wizards and a witch appeared
before the Presidents Salvert and D'Avanton: they
confessed, when extended on the rack, that they
anointed the sheep-pens with infernal unguents to
kill the sheep - that they attended the sabbath,
where they saw a great black goat, which spoke
to them, and made them kiss him, each holding
a lighted candle in his hand while he performed
the ceremony. They were. all executed at Poi-
tiers.
In 1511, the celebrated sorcerer, Trois Echelles,
was burned in the Place de Gr~ve, in Paris. He
confessed, in the presence of Charles IX, and of
the Marshals de Montmorency, De Retz, and the
Sieur du Maz1lle, physician to the King, that he
could perform the most wonderful things by the
aid of a devil to whom he bad sold himself. He
described at great length the saturnalia of the
• Bodin, page 95. Garinet, page 125. " Anti-demon de Ser-
clier," page 346;
200 THE WITCH MANIA.
fiends- the sacrifices which they offered up- the
debaucheries they committed with the young and
handsome witches, and the various modes of pre-
paring the infernal unguent for blighting cattle.
He said he bad upwards of twelve hundred accom-
plices in the crime of witchcraft in various parts
of France, whom he named to the King, and many
of whom were afterwards arrested and suffered
execution.
At D61e, two years afterwards, Gilles Garnier, a
native of Lyons, was indicted for being a loup·
garou, or man.wolf, and for prowling in that shape
about the countryat night to devour little children.
The indictment against him, as read by Henri
Camus, doctor of laws and counsellor of the King,
was to the effect that he, Gilles Garnier, had seized
upon a little girl, twelve years of age, whom he
drew into a vineyard and there kil1ed, partly with
his teeth and partly with his hands. seeming like
wolf's paws- that from thence he trailed her
bleeding body along the ground with his teeth
into the wood of La Serre, where he ate the great-
est portion of her at one meal, and carried the
remainder home to his wife ; that, upon another
occasion, eight days before the festival of All Saints,
he was seen to seize another child in his teeth, and
would have devoured her bad she not been rescued
by the country-people- and that the said child
died a few days afterwards of the injuries he had
inflicted; that fifteen days after the same festival
THE WITCH MANlA. ~01
of All Saints, b~ing again in the shape of a wolf,
he devoured a boy thirteen years of age, having
previously torn off his leg and thigh with his teeth,
and hid them away for his breakfast on the mor-
row. He was, furthermore, indicted for giving
way to the same diabolical and unnatural pro-
pensities even in his shape of a man, and that
he had strangled a .boy in a wood with the in-
tention of eating him, which crime he would have
effected if he had not been seen by the neigh-
bours and prevented.
Gilles Garnier was put to the rack, after fifty
witnesses had deposed against him: he confessed
everything that was laid to his charge. He was,
thereupon, brought back into the presence of
his judges, when Dr. Camus, in the name of the
Parliament of Dole, pronounced the following sen-
tence:-
" Seeing that Gilles Garnier has, by the testi-
mony of cl'edible witnesses, and by his own spon-
taneous confession, been proved guilty of the abo-
minable crimes of lycanthropy and witchcraft, this
court condemns him, the said Gilles, to be this
day taken in a cart from this spot to the place of
execution, accompanied by the executioner (maitre
uecuteur de Ia haute justice), where he, by the
said executioner, shall be tied to a stake and
burned alive, and that his ashes be then scattered
to the winds. The Court further condemns him,
the said Gilles, to the costs of this prosecution."
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANIA.
u Given at Dole, this 18th d~y of January,
1573."
In 1578, the Parliament of Paris.was occupied
for several days with the trial of a man, named
Jacques Rollet. He, also, was found guilty of be-
ing a loup-garou, and in that shape devouring a
little boy. He was burnt alive in the Place de
GTeve.
In 1579, so much alarm was excited in the
neighbourhood of Melun by the increase of witches
and loup-garous, that a council was held to devise
some measures to stay the evil. A decree was
passed, that all witches, and consulters with witches,
should be punished with death; and not only those,
but fortune-tellers and conjurors of every kind.
The Parliament of Rouen took up the same ques-
tion in the following year, and decreed that the
possession of a grimoire, or book of spells, was
sufficient evidence of witchcraft ; and that all per-
sons on whom such books were found should be
burned alive. Three councils were held in differ-
ent parts of France in the year 1588, all in rela-
tion to the same subject. The Parliament of
Bourdeaux issued strict injunctions to all curates
and clergy whatever, to use redoubled efforts to
root out the crime of witcheraft. The Parliament
of Tours was equally peremptory, and feared the
judgments of an offended God, if all these dealers
with the devil were not swept from the face of
j 1 ' I
TH.E WITCH MANIA. 208
the land. The Parliament of Rheims was parti-
cularly severe against the noucurs d'aiguiltette, or
"tyers of the knot;" people of both sexes, who
took pleasure in preventing the consummation of
marriage, that they might counteract the command
of God to our first parents, to increase and mul-
tiply. This Parliament held it to be sinful to wear
amulets to preserve from witchcraft; and that this
practice might not be continued within its.juris-
diction, drew up a form of exorcism, which would
more effectually defeat the agents of the devil, and
put them to flight.
A case of witchcraft, which created a great sensa-
tion in its day, occurred in 1588, at a village in the
mountains of Auvergne, about two leagues from
Apchon. A gentleman of that place being at his
window, there passed a friend of his who had been
out hunting, and who was then returning to his
own house. The gentleman asked his friend what
sport he had had; upon which the latter informed
llim that he had been attacked in the plain by a
large and savage wolf, which he had ~shot at, with-
out wounding; and that he had then drawn out
his hunting-knife and cut off th~ animal's fore-paw,
as it sprang upon his neck to devour him. The
huntsman, upon this, put his hand into his bag
to pull out the paw, but was shocked to find that
it was a w.oman's band, with a wedding-ring on
the finger. The gentleman immediately recog-
nized his w
.ife's ring, "which," says the indictment
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANIA.
against her~ umade him begin to suspect some evil
of her." He immediately went in search of her~ and
found her sitting by the fire in the kitchen~ with
her arm hidden underneath her apron. He tore
offher apron with great vehemence~ and found that
she had no hand, and that the stump was even then
bleeding. She was given into custody, and burned
at Riom in presence of some thousands of spec.
tators.•
In the midst of these executions, rare were the
gleams of mercy ; few instances are upon record
of any acquittal taking place when the charge
was witchcraft. The discharge of fourteen per-
sons by the Parliament of Paris, in the year 158.9,
is almost a solitary example of a return to reason.
Fourteen persons, condemned to death for witch-
craft, appealed against the judgment to the Par-
liament of Paris, which for political reasons bad
been exiled to Tours. The Parliament named
four commissioners, Pierre Pigray, the King•s sur-
geon, and Messieurs Leroi, Renard, and Falaiseau,
the King's physicians, to visit and examine these
witches, and see whether they had the mark of
the devil upon them. Pigray, who relates the cir-
cumstance in his work on Surgery, book vii, chapter
the tenth, says the visit was made in presence of
two counseJlors of the court. The witches were all
stripped naked, and the physicians examined their
• Tablier. See also Boguet, « Discoura sur lea SorcieJ'B ;" and
M. Jules Garinet, « Histoire de la Magie," page 160.
THE WITCH MANIA. 205
bodies very diligently, pricking them in all the
marks they could find, to see whether they were
insensible to pain, which was always considered a
certain proof of guilt. They were, however, very
sensible of the pricking, and some of them called
out very lustily when the pins were driven into
them. 1
' We found them," continues Pierre Pi-
gray, 1
' to be very poor, stupid people, and some
of them insane ; many of them were quite indiffer-
ent about life, and one or two of them desired
death as a relief for their sufferings. Our opinion
was, that they stood more 'in need of medicine than
of punishment, and so we reported to the Parlia-
ment. Their case was, thereupon, taken into fur-
ther consideration, and the Parliament, after mature
counsel amongst all the members, ordered the poor
creatures to be sent to their homes, without in-
flicting any punishment upon them."
Such was the dreadful state of Italy, Germany,
and France, during the sixteenth century, which
was far from being the worst crisis of the popu-
lar madness with regard to witchcraft. Let us see
what was the state of England during the same
period. The Reformation, which in its progress
had rooted out so many errors, stopped short at
this, the greatest error of all. Luther and Calvin
were as firm believers in witchcraft as Pope Inno-
cent himself, and their followers showed themselves
mol"e zealous persecutors than the Romanists. Dr.
Hutchinson, in his work on Witchcraft, asserts that
806 THE WITCH MANIA.
the mania manifested itself later in England, and
raged with less virulence than on the Continent.
The first assertion only is true; but though the
persecution began later both in England and Scot-
land, its progress was as fearful as elsewhere.
It was not until more than fifty years after the
issuing of the Bull of Innocent VIII. that the Le-
gislature of England thought fit to make any more
severe enactments against sorcery than those al.
ready in operation. The statute of 1541 was the
first that specified the particular crime of witch-
craft. At a much earlier period, many persons
had suffered death for sorcery in addition to other
offences; but no executions took place for attend-
ing the witches' sabbath, raising tempests, afBict-
ing cattle with barrenness, and all the fantastic
trumpery of the Continent. Two statutes were
passed in 1551; the first, relating to false pro-
phecies, caused mainly, no doubt, by the imposi-
tions of Elizabeth Barton, the Holy Maid of Kent,
1n 1534, and the second against conjuration, witch-
craft, and sorcery. But even this enactment did
not consider witchcraft as penal in itself, and only
condemned to death those who by means of spells,
incantations, or contracts with the devil, attempted
the lives of their neighbours. The statute of Eli-
.zabeth, in 1562, at last recognized witchcraft as
a crime of the highest ,magnitude, whether exerted
.or not to the injury of the lives, limbs, and pos-
sessions of the community. From that date, the
THE WITCll MANIA. 207
persecution may be fairly said to have commenced
in England. It reached its climax in the early
part of the seventeenth century, which was the
hottest period of the mania all over Europe.
A few cases of witch persecution in the sixteenth
century will enable the reader to form a more ac-
curate idea of the progress of this great error than
if he plunged at once into that busy period of
its history when Matthew Hopkins and his coad-
jutors exercised their infernal calling. Several in-
stances occur in England during the latter years
of the reign of Elizabeth. At this time the public
mind had become pretty familiar with the details
of the crime. Bishop Jewell, in his sermons before
Her Majesty, used constantly to conclude them by
a fervent prayer that she might be preserved from
witches. Upon one occasion, in 1598, his words
were, u It may please your Grace to understand
that witches and sorcerers, within these last four
years, are marvellously increased within this your
Grace's realm. Your Grace•s subjects pine away
even unto the death ; their colour fadeth -their
flesh rotteth - their speech is benumbed- their
senses are bereft! I pray God they may never
practise further than upon the sufdect!"
By degrees, an epidemic terror of witchcraft
spread into the villages. In proportion as the
doctrines of the Puritans took root this dread
increased, and, of course, brought persecution in
its train. The Churc~ of England has claimed,
j 1 ' I
208 TH.E WITCH MANIA.
and is entitled to the merit, of having been less
influenced in these matters than any other sect
of Christians; but still they were tainted with the
superstition of the age. One of the most flagrant
instances of cruelty and delusion upon record was
consummated under the authority of the Church,
and cotnmemorated till a very late period by an
annual lecture at the University of Cambridge.
This is the celebrated case of the Witches of
Warbois, who were executed about thirty-two years
after the passing of the statute of Elizabeth. Al-
though in the interval but few trials are recorded,
there is, unfortunately, but too much evidence to
show the extreme length to which the popular pre-
judice was carried. Many women lost their lives
in every part of England without being brought to
trial at all, from the injuries received at the hands
of the people. The number of these can never
be ascertained.
The case of the Witches of Warbois merits to
be detailed at length, not onlyfrom the importance
attached to it for so many years by the learned
of the University, but from the singular absurdity
of the evidence upon which men, sensible in all
other respects, could condemn their fellow-creatures
to the scaffold.
The principal actors in this strange drama were
the families of Sir Samuel Cromwell and a Mr.
Throgmorton, both gentlemen of landed property
near Warbois, in the county of Huntingdon. Mr.
THE WITCH MANIA. 209
Throgmorton had several daughters, the eldest of
whom, Mistress Joan, was an imaginative and me.
lancholy girl, whose head was tilled with stories
of ghosts and witches. Upon one occasion she
chanced to pass the cottage of one Mrs. or, as
she was called, Mother Samuel, a very aged, a
very poor, and a very ugly woman. Mother Sa-
muel was sitting at her door knitting, with a black
cap upon her head, when this silly young lady pass-
ed, and taking her eyes from her work she looked
steadfastly at her. Mistress Joan immediately fan-
cied that sbe felt sudden pains in all her limbs, and
from that day forth, never ceased to tell her sisters,
and everybody about her, that Mother Samuel had
bewitched her. The other children took up the cry,
and actu·allyfrightened themselves into fits whenever
they passed within sight of this terrible old woman.
Mr. and Mrs. Throgmorton, not a whit wiser
than their children, believed all the absurd tales
they had been told; and Lady Cromwell, a gos-
sip of Mrs. Throgmorton, made herself very ac-
tive in the business, and determined to bring
the witch to the ordeal. The sapient Sir Samuel
joined in the scheme; and the children thus en-
couraged gave loose reins to their imaginations,
which seem to have been of the liveliest. They
soon invented a whole host of evil spirits, and
names for them besides, which, they said, were sent
by Mother Samuel to torment them continually.
Seven spirits especially, they said, were raised from
VOL. II. p
j 1 ' I
210 THE WITCH MANIA.
bell by this wicked woman to throw them into fits ;
and as the children were actually subject to fits,
their mother and her commeres gave the more
credit to the story. The names of these spirits
were, "First Smack," "Second Smack," "Third
Smack," u Blue," " Catch," •~ Hardname," and
u Pluck."
Throgmorton, the father, was so pestered by
these idle fancies, and yet so well inclined to be-
lieve them, that he marched valiantly forth to the
but where Mother Samuel resided with her hus-
band and daughter, and dragged her forcibly into
his own grounds. Lady Cromwell, Mrs. Throg-
morton, and the girls were in waiting, armed with
long pins to prick the witch, and see if they could
draw blood from her. Lady Cromwell, who seems
to have been the most violent of the party, tore the
old woman's cap off her bead, and plucking out
a handful of her grey hair, gave it to Mrs. Throg-
morton to burn, as a charm which would preserve
them all from her future machinations. It was
no wonder that the poor creature, subjected to this
rough usage, should give vent to an involuntary
curse upon her tormentors. She did so, and her
curse was never forgotten. Her hair, however, was
supposed to be a grand specific, and she was al-
lowed .to depart, half dead with terror and ill
usage. For more than a year, the families of
Cromwell and Throgmorton continued to persecute
her, and to assert that her imps afBicted them with
j 1 ' I
TilE WITCH MANJA. 211
pains and fits, turned the milk sour in their pans,
and prevented their cows and ewes from bearing.
In the midst of these fooleries, Lady Cromwell was
taken ill and died. It was then remembered that
her death had taken place exactly a year and a
quarter since she was cursed by Mother Samuel,
and that on several occasions she had dreamed of
the witch and a black cat, the latter being of
course the arch-enemy of mankind himself.
Sir Samuel Cromwell now conceived himself
bound to take more energetic measures against
the sorceress, since he had lost his wife by her
means. The year and a quarter and the black
cat were proofs positive. All the neighbours had
taken up the cry of witchcraft against Mother
Samuel; and her personal appearanc~~ unfortu-
J;)ately for her, the very ideal of what a witch ought
to be, increased the popular suspicion. It would
appear that at last the poor woman believed, even
to her own disadvantage, that she was what every-
body represented her to be. Being forcibly brought
into Mr. Tbrogmorton•s house, when his daughter
Joan was in one of he.r customary fits, she was
commanded by him and Sir Samuel CromweU to
expel .the devil -
from the young lady. She was
told to repeat her exorcism, and to add, " as I
am .a witch, and the causer of Lady Cromwell's
death, I charge thee, fiend, to come out of her,..
She did as was required of her, and moreover con-
fessed that her husband and daughter were leagued
p~
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANIA.
with her in witchcraft, and had, like her, sold their
souls to the devil. The whole family were imme-
diately arrested, and sent to Huntingdon to prison.
The trial was instituted shortly afterwards before
Mr. Justice Fenner, when all the crazy girls of Mr.
Throgmorton's family gave evidence against Mother
Samuel and her family. They were all three put to
the torture. The old woman confessed in her an-
guish that she was a witch -that she had cast bet
spells upon the young ladies, and that she had
caused the death of Lady Cromwell. The father
and daughter, stronger in mind than their unfortu-
nate wife and parent~ refused to confess anything,
and asserted their innocence to the last. They
were all three condemned to be hanged, and their
bodies burned. The daughter, who was young
and good-looking, excited the pity of many persons,
and she was advised to plead pregnancy, that she
might gain at least a respite from death. The
poor girl refused proudly, on the ground that she
would not be accounted both a witch and a strum-
pet. Her half-witted old mother caught at the
idea of a few weeks' longer life, and asserted that
she was pregnant. The court was convulsed with
laughter, in which the wretched victim herself
joined, and this was accounted an additional proof.
that she wa~ a witch. The whole family were
executed on the 7th of April, 1593.
Sir Samuel Cromwell, as lord of tbe manor, re-
ceived the sum of 401. out of the confiscated pro-
TilE WITCH MANIA. 218
perty of tlie Samuels, which he turned into a
rent·charge of 40s. yearly, for the endowment of
an annual sermon or lecture upon the enormity
of witchcraft, and this case in particular, to be
preached by a doctor or bachelor of divinity of
Queen's CoJiege, Cambridge. I have not been
able to ascertain the exact date at which this
annual lecture was cliscontinued, but it appears
to have been preached so late as 1718, when Dr.
Hutchinson published his work upon witchcraft.
To carry on in proper chronological order the
history of the witch delusion in the British isles,
it will be necessary to examine into what was tak-
ing place in Scotland during all that part of the
sixteenth century anterior to the accession of James
VI. to the crown of England. We naturally ex·
pect that the Scotch,-a people renowned from the
earliest times for their powers of imagination,-
should be more deeply imbued with this gloomy
superstition than their neighbours of the South.
The nature of their soil and climate tended to
encourage the dreams of early ignorance. Ghosts,
goblins, wraiths, kelpies, and a whole host of spi-
ritual beings, were familiar to the dwellers by the
misty glens of the Highlands and the romantic
streams of the Lowlands. Their deeds, whether
of good or ill, were enshrined in song, and took
a greater hold upon the imagination because "verse
had sanctified them." But it was not till the re-
ligious reformers began the practice of straining
r
THE WITCH MANIA.
Scripture to the severest extremes, that the arm
of the law was called upon to punish.witchcraft
as a crime per se. What Pope Innocent VIII. had
done for Germany and France, the preachers of the
Reformation did for the Scottish people. Witch..
craft, instead of being a mere article of faith, be-
came enrolled in the statute book ; and all good
subjects and true Christians were called upon to
take arms against it. The ninth Parliament of
Queen Mary passed an act in 1563, which decreed
the punishment of death against witches and con-
sulters with witches, and immediately the whole
bulk of the people were smitten with an epidemic
fear of the devil and his mortal agents. Per-
sons in the highest ranks of life shared and
encouraged the delusion of the vulgar. Many
were themselves accused of witchcraft ; and noble
ladies were shown to have dabbled in mystic arts,
and proved to the world that, if they were not
witches, it was not for want of the wilJ.
Among the dames who became notorious for
endeavouring to effect their wicked ends by the
devil's aid, may be mentioned the celebrated Lady
Buccleugh, of Branxholme, familiar to all the read-
ers of Sir Walter Scott ; the Countess of Lothlan,
the Countess of Angus, the Countess of Athol,
Lady Kerr, the Countess of Huntley, Euphemia
Macalzean (the daughter of Cord Cliftonhall), and
Lady Fowlis. Among the celebrated of the other
sex who were accused of wizzardism was Sir Lewis
THE WITCH MANIA. 215
Ballantyne, the Lord Justice Clefk for Scotland,
who, if we may believe Scot of Scotstarvet, 11
dealt
by curiosity with a warlock called Richard Gra..
hame," and prayed him to raise the devil. The
warlock consented, and raised him in proprid per-
sond, in the yard of his house in the Canongate,
"at sight of whom the Lord-Justice Clerk was so
terrified that he took sickness and thereof died."
By such idle reports as these did the envious ruin
the reputation of those they hated, though it would
appear in this case that Sir Lewis had been fool
enough to make the attempt of which he was ac-
cused, and that the success of the experiment_was
the only apocryphal part of the story.
The enemies of John Knox invented a similar
tale, which found ready credence among the Roman
Catholics; glad tojlttach any stigma to that grand
scourge of the vices of their church. It was re-
ported that he and his secretary went into the
churchyard of St. Andrew's with the intent to raise
"some sanctes ;'' but that, by a mistake in their
conjurations, they raised the great fiend himself, in-
stead of the saints they wished to consult. The
popular rumour added that Knox's secretary was
so frightened at the great horns, goggle eyes, and
long tail of Satan, that be went mad, and shortly
afterwards died. Knox himself was built of sterner
stuff, and was not to be frightened.
The first name that occurs in the records of the
High Court of ;rusticiary of persons tried or exe-
j 1 ' I
216 THE WITCH MANIA.
cuted for witchcraft is that of Janet Bowman, in
1572, nine years after the passing of the act of
Mary. No particulars of her crimes are given,
and against her name there only stand the words:,
" convict and brynt.1
' It is not, however, to be
inferred that, in this interval, no trials or execu~
tions took place; for it appears on the authority
of documents of unquestioned authenticity in the
Advocates' Library at Edinburgh,• that the Privy
Council made a practice of granting commissions
to resident gentlemen ,and ministers, in every part
of Scotland, to examine, try, and execute witches
within their own parishes. No records of those
who suffered from the sentence of these tribunals
have been preserved ; but if popular tradition may
be, believed, even to the amount of one-fourth of
its assertions, their number wa~fearful. After the
year 1572, the entries of executions for witchcraft
in. the records of the High Court become more
frequent, but do not average more than one per
annum ; another proof that trials for this offence
were in general entrusted to the local magistracy.
The latter appear to have ordered witches to the
stake with as little compunction, and after as sum-
mary a mode, as modern justices of the peace order
a poacher to the stocks.
As James VI. advanced in manhood, he took
great interest in the witch trials. One of them
especially, that of Gellie Duncan, Dr. Fian, and
• Foreign Quarterly Review, vol. vi. page 41.
THE WITCH MANIA. 217
their accomplices, in the year 1591, engrossed his
whole attention, and no doubt suggested in some
degree, the famous work on Demonology which he
wrote shortly afterwards. As these witches had
made an attempt upon his own life, it is not sur-
prising, with his habits, that he should have watch-
ed the case closely, or become strengthened in his
prejudice and superstition by its singular details.
No other trial that could be selected would give
so fair an idea of the delusions of the Scottish
people as this. Whether we consider the number
of victims, the absurdity of the evidence, and the
real vi11any of some of the persons implicated, it
is equally extraordinary.
Gellie Duncan, the prime witch in these pro-
ceedings, was servant to the Deputy Bailiff of Tra-
nent, a small town in Hadingtonshire, about ten
miles from Edinburgh. Though neither old nor
ugly (as witches usually were), but young and
good-looking, her neighbours, from some suspicious
parts of her behaviour, had long considered her
a witch. She had, it appears, some pretensions
to the healing art. Some cures which she effected
were so sudden, that the worthy Bailiff, her mas-
ter, who, like his neighbours, mistrusted her, con-
sidered them no less than miraculous. In order
to discover the truth, he put her to the torture ;
but she obstinately refused to confess that she had
dealings with the devil. lt was tl1e popular be-
lief that no witch would confess as long as the
j 1 ' I
'
5!18 THE WITCH MANIA.
mark which Satan had put upon her remained
undiscovered upon her. body. Somebody present
reminded the torturing Bailie of this fact, and on
examination, the devil's mark was found upon the
throat of poor Gellie. She was put to the torture
again, and her fortitude giving way under the ex-
tremity of her anguish, she confessed that she was
indeed a witch - that she had sold her soul to the
devil, and effected all her cures by his aid. This
was something new in the witch creed, according
to which, the devil delighted more in laying dis-
eases on, than in taking them off; but G.ellie Dun-
can fared no better on that account. The torture
was still applied, until she had named all her
accomplices, among whom were one Cunningham,
a reputed wizard, known by the name of Dr. Fian,
a grave and matron-like witch, named Agnes Samp-
son, Euphemia Macalzean, the daughter of Lord
Cliftonhal1, already mentioned, and nearly forty
other persons, some of whom were the wives of
respectable individuals in the city of Edinburgh.
Every one of these persons was arrested, and the
whole realm of Scotland thrown into commotion
by the extraordinary nature ofthe disclosures which
were anticipated.
About two years previous to this time, James
had suddenly left his kingdom, and proceeded gal-
lantly to Denmark, to fetch over his bride, the
Princess of Denmark, who baa been detained by
contrary weather in the harbour of Upslo. After
THE WITCH MANIA. il9
remanung for some months in Copenhagen, he
set sail with his young bride, and arrived safely
in Leith, on the 1st of May 1590, having expe-
rienced a most boisterous passage, and been nearly
wrecked. As soon as the arrest of Gellie Duncan
and Fian became known in Scotland, it was re-
ported by everybody who pretended to be well-
informed that these witches and their associates
had, by the devil's means, raised the storms which
had endangered the lives of the King and Queen.
Gellie, in her torture, had confessed that such was
the fact, and the whole kingdom waited aghast and
open-mouthed for the corroboration about to be
furnished by the trinl.
.Agnes Sampson, the u grave and matron-like ''
witch implicated by Gellie Duncan, was put to the
horrible torture of the pilliewinkis. She laid bare
aU the secrets of the sisterhood before she had
suffered an hour, and confessed that Gellie Duncan,
Dr. Fian, Marion Lineup, Euphemia Macalzean,
herself, and upwards of two hundred witches and
warlocks, used to assemble at midnight in the kirk
of North Berwick, where they met the devil ; that
they had plotted there to attempt the King's life ;
that they were incited to this by the old fiend him-
self, who had asserted with a thundering oath that
James was the greatest enemy he ever had, and
that there would be no peace for the devil's chil-
dren upon earth until he were got rid·of; that the
devil upon these occasions always liked to have
j 1 ' I
220 THE WITCH MANIA.
11. little music, and that Gellie Duncan used to play
a reel before him on a trump or Jew's harp, to
which all the witches danced.
James was highly flattered at the idea that the
devil should have said that he was the greatest
enemy be ever bad. He sent for Gellie Duncan
to the palace, and made her play before him the
same reel which she had played at the witches'
dance in the kirk.
Dr. Fian, or rather Cunningham~ a petty school-
master at Tranent, was put to the torture among
the rest. He was a man who had led an infamous
life, was a compounder of and dealer in poisons,
and a pretender to magic. Though not guilty of
the preposterous crimes laid to his charge, there
is no doubt that he was a sorcerer in Will, though
not in deed, and that be deserved all the misery
he endured. When put on the rack, he would
confess nothing, and held out so long unmoved,
that the severe torture of the boots was resolved
upon. He endured this till exhausted nature could
bear no longer, when Insensibility kindly stepped in
to his 'aid. When it was seen that he was utterly
powerless, and that his tongue cleaved to the roof
of his mouth, he was released. Restoratives were
administered ; and during the first faint gleam of
returning consciousness, he was prevailed upon to
sign, ere he well knew what he was about, a full
confession, in strict accordance with those of Gellie
Duncan and Agnes Sampson. He was then re-
THE WITCH MANIA. 221
manded to his prison, from which, after two days,
be managed, somehow or other, to escape. He
was soon recaptured, and brought before the Court
of Justiciary, James himself being present. Fian
now denied all the circumstances of the written
confession which he bud signed; whereupon the
King, enraged at his "stubborn wilfulness," order-
ed him once more to the torture. His finger nails
were riven out with pincers, and long needles
thrust up to the eye into the quick ; but still he
did not wince. He was then consigned again to
the boots, in which, to quote a pamphlet published
at the time,• he continued "so long, and abode so
many blows in them, that his legs were crushed
and beaten together as small as might be, and
the bones and flesh so bruised, that the blood
and marrow spouted forth in great abundance,
whereby they were made unserviceable for ever."
The astonishing similarity of the confessions of
all the persons implicated in these proceedings has
often been remarked. It would appear that they
actually endeavoured to cause the King's death
by their spells and sorceries. Fian, who was ac-
quainted with all the usual tricks of his profession,
deceived them with pretended apparitions, so that
many of them were really convinced that they had
seen the devil. The sum of their confessions was
to the following effect:-
Satan, who was, of course, a great foe of the
• News from Scotland, declaring the damnable life of Dr. Fian.
THE WITCH MANIA.
reformed religion, was .alarmed that King James
should marry a Protestant princess. To a.vert the
consequences to the realms of evil, he had deter-
mined to put an end to the King and his bride
by raising a storm on their voyage home. Satan,
first of all, sent a thick mist over the waters, in
the hope that the King's vessel might be stranded
on the coast amid the darkness. This failing, Dr.
Fian, who, from his superior scholarship, was ad-
vanced to the dignity of the devil's secretary, was
commanded to summon all the witches to meet·their
master, each one sailing on a sieve on the high seas.
On All-haUowmas Eve, they ·assembled to the
number of upwards of two hundred, including
Gellie Duncan, Agnes Sampson, Euphemia Macal-
zean, one Barbara Napier, and several warlocks;
and each embarking in a riddle, or sieve, they
sailed 11
over the ocean very substantially." After
cruising about for some time, they met with the
fiend, hearing in his claws a cat, which had been
previously drawn nine times through the fire. This
he delivered to one of the warlocks, telling him to
cast it into the sea, and c:ry " Hola !" This was
done with all solemnity, and immediately the ocean
became convulsed- the waters hissed loudly, and
the waves rose mountains high,
'' Twisting their arms to the dun--coloured heaven."
The witches sailed gallantly through the tempest
they had raised, and landing on the coast of Scot-
land, took their sieves in their hands, and marched
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANIA.
on in procession to the haunted kirk of North
Berwick, where the devil had resolved to hold a
preaching. Gellie Duncan, the musician of the
party, tripped on before, playing on her Jew•s
harp, and singing,
« Cummer, go ye before, Cummer, go ye;
Gifye will not go before, Cummer, let me!"
Arrived at the kirk, they paced around it withershim,
that is, in reverse ofthe apparent motion ofthe sun.
Dr. Fian then blew into the key-hole of the door,
which opened immediately, and all the witches en-
tered. As it was pitch dark, Fian blew with his
mouth upon the candles, which immediately light-
ed, and the devil was seen occupying the pulpit.
He was attired in a black gown and hat, and the
witches saluted him, by crying, u All hail, master!,.
His body was hard, like iron ; his face terrible; his
nose, like the beak of an eagle ; he had great burn-
ing eyes; his hands and legs were hairy ; ahd ·he
had long claws upon his hands and feet, and.spake
with an exceedingly grufF voice. Before· commen-
cing his sermon, he called over the nam~s of his con-
gregation, demanding whether they had been good
servants, and what success had attended their ope-
rations ~gainst the life of the King and his bride.
Gray Meill, a crazy old warlock, who acted as
beadle or doorkeeper, was silly enough to answer,
"that nothing ailed the King yet, God be thanked;"
upon which tbe devil, in a rage, stepped down from
the pulpit, and boxed his ears for him. He then
THE WITCH MANIA.
remounted, and commenced the preaching, com-
manding them to be dutiful servants to him, and do
all the evil they could. Euphemia Macalzean and
Agnes Sampson, bolder than the rest, asked him
whether. he bad brought the image or picture of
King James, that they might, by pricking it, cause .
pains and diseases to fall upon him. " The father
of lies" spoke truth for once, and confessed that he
had forgotten it ; upon which EuphemiaMacalzean
upbraided him loudly for his carelessness. The
devil, however, took it all in good part, although
Agnes Sampson and several other women let loose
their tongues at him immediately. When they had
done scolding, be invited them all to a grand en-.
tertainment. A newly buried corpse was dug up~
and divided among them, which was all they had
in the way of edibles. He was more liberal in the
matter of drink, and gave them so much excellent
wine that they soon became jolly. Gellie Duncan
then played the old tune upon her trump, and the
devil himself led off the dance with Euphemia Mac-
alzean. Thus they kept up the sport till the cock
crew.
Agnes Sampson, the wise woman of Keith, as she
was called, added some other particulars in her
confession. She stated, that on a previous occa-
sion, she had raised an awful tempest in the sea, by
throwing a cat into it, with four joints of men tied
to its feet. She said also, that on their grand at-
tempt to drown King James, they did not meet
THE WITCH MANIA.
with the devil after cruising about, but that he bad
accompanied them from the first, and that she had
seen him dimly in the distance, rolling himself be-
fore them over the great waves, in shape and size
not unlike a huge haystack. They met with a
foreign ship richly laden with wines and other good
things, which they boarded, and sunk after they
had drunk all the wine, and made themselves quite
merry.
Some of these disclosures were too much even for
the abundant faith of King James, and he more
than once exclaimed, that the witches were like
their master, u extreme lyars." But they confessed
many other things of a less preposterous nature,
and of which they were, uo doubt, really guilty.
Agnes Sampson said she was to have taken the
King's life by anointing his linen with a strong
poison. Gellie Duncan used to threaten her neigh-
bours by saying she would send the devil after
them ; and many persons of weaker minds than
usual were frightened into fits by bet·, and ren-
dered subject to them for the remainder of their
lives. Dr. Fian also made no scruple in aiding and
abetting murder, nud would rid any person of an
enemy by means of poison, who could pay him
his fee for it. Euphemia Macalzean also was far
from being pure. There is no doubt that she medi-
tated the King's death, and used such means to
compass it as the superstition of the age directed.
She was a devoted partizan of Bothwell, who was
VOL. tt. Q
'
226 THE WITCH MANIA.
accused by many ofthe witches as having consulted
them on the period of the King's death. They
were all found guilty, and sentenced to be hanged
and burned. Barbara Napier, though found guilty
upon other counts, was acquitted upon the charge
of having been present at the great witch-meeting
in Berwick kirk. The King was highly displeased,
and threatened to have the jury indicted for a wil-
ful error upon an assize. They according]y recon-
sidered their verdict, and threw themselves upon
the King's mercy for the fault they ~ad committed.
James was satisfied, and Barbara Napier was hanged
along with Gellie Duncan,Agnes Sampson, Dr.Fian,
and five-and-twenty others. Euphemia Macalzean
met a harder fate. Her connexion with the bold
and obnoxious Bothwe11, and her share in poisoning
one or two individuals who had stood in her. way,
were thought deserving of the severest punishment
the Jaw could inflict. Instead of the ordinary sen-
tence, directing the criminal to be first strangled
and then burned, the wretched \voman was doomed
"'' to be bound to a stake, and burned in ashes,
quick to the death." This cruel sentence was ex-
ecuted on the 25th of June 1591.
These trials had the most pernicious conse-
quences all over Scotland. The lairds and ministers
in their districts, armed with due power from the
privy council, tried and condemned old women
after the most summary fashion. Those who still
clung to the ancient faith of Rome were the se-
THE WlTCU MANIA. 227
verest sufferers, as it was thought, after the dis.
clesures of the fierce enmity borne by the devil
towards a Protestant King and his Protestant wife,
that all the Catholics were leagued with the powers
of evil to work woe on the realm of Scotland.
Upon a very moderate calculation, it is presumed
that from the passing of the act of Queen Mary till
the accession of James to the throne of England, a
period of thirty-nine years, the average number of
executions for witchcraft in Scotland was two hun-
dred annually, or upwards of seventeen thousand
altogether. For the first nine years the number
was not one quarter so great; but towards the
years 1590 to 1598, the number must have been
more than four hundred. The case last cited was
one of an e:draordinary character. The general
aspect of the trials will be better seen from that
of Isabel Gowdie, which, as it would be both weari-
some and disgusting to go through them all, is
cited as a fair specimen, although it took place at
a date somewhat later than the reign of Jam~s.
This woman, wearied of her life by the persecutions
of her neighbours, voluntarily gave herself up to
justice, and made a confession, embodying the
whole witch-creed of the period. She was undoubt-
edly a monomaniac of the most extraordinary kind.
She said that she deserved to be stretched upon
an iron rack, and that her crimes could never be
atoned for, even if she were to be drawn asunder
by wild horses. She named a long list of her asso-
Q2
j 1 ' I
228 THE WiTCH MANIA.
ciates, including nearly fifty women and a few war-
locks. They dug up the graves ~f unchristened
infants, whose limbs were serviceable in their en-
chantments. When they wanted to destroy the
erops of an enemy, they yoked toads to his plough,
nnd on the foJlowing night Satan himself ploughed
the land with his team, and blasted it for the sea.
son. The witches had power to assume almost any
shape; but they generally chose either that ofa cat
or a hare, oftenest the latter. Isabel said, that on
one occasion, when she was in this disguise, she was
sore pressed by a pack of bounds, and had a very
narrow escape with her life. She reached her own
door at last, feeling the hot breath of the pursuing
dogs at her haunches. She managed, however, to
bide herself behind a chest, and got time to pro-
nounce the magic words that could alone restore
her to her proper shape. They were :-
" Hare ! hare !
God eend thee care !
I am in a hare's likeness now;
But I shall be a woman e'en now l
Hare! hare!
God send thee care !"
If witches, when in this shape, were bitten by the
dogs, they always retained the marks in their human
form; but she had never heard that any witch had
been bitten to death. When the devil appointed
any general meeting of the witches, the custom was
that they should proceed through the air mounted
j I \ I
THE WITCH MANIA. ,229
on broomsticks, or on corn or bean-straws, pro-
nouncing as they went :-
" Horse and pattock, horse and go,
Horae and pellata, ho ! ho ! ho I''
They generally left behind them a broom, or a
three-legged stool, which, wben placed in their
beds and duly charmed, assumed the human shape
till their return. This was done that the neigh-
bours might not know when they were absent.
She added, that the devil furnished his favourite
witches with servant imps to attend upon them.
These imps were called "The Roaring Lion,'•
" Thief of Hell," u Wait-upon-Herself," cc Ranting
Roarer," "Care-for-Naught," &c. and were-known by
their liveries, which were generally yellow, sad-dun,
sea-green, pea-green, or grass-green. Satan never
called the witches by the names they had received
at baptism ; neither were they allowed, in his pre-
sence, so to designate each other. Such a breach
of the infernal etiquette assuredly drew down his
most severe displeasure. But as some designation
was necessary, he re-baptized them in their own
blo~d by the names of u Able-and-Stout,., u Over-
the-dike-with-it," " Raise-the-wind," n Pickle-near-
est-the-wind," "Batter-them-down-Maggy," "Blow...
Kale," and such like. The devil himself was not
very particular what name they called him so that
it was not 11
Black John." If any witch was un-
thinking enough to utter these words, he would
280 THE WITCH MANIA.
rush out upon her, and beat and' buffet her unmer-
cifully, or tear her flesh with a wool-card. Other
names he did not care about; and once gave in-
structions to a noted warlock that whenever he
wanted his aid, he was to strike the ground three
times and exclaim, "Rise up, foul thief!"
Upon this confessi'?n many persons were exe-
cuted. So strong was the popular ~ling, that
no one once accused of witchcraft was acquitted ;
at least, acquittals did not average one in a hun-
dred trials. Witch-finding, or witch-pricking be-
came a trade, and a set of mercenary vagabonds
roamed about the country, provided with long pins
'to run into the ftesh of supposed criminals. It was
no unusudl thing then, nor is it now, that in aged per-
sons there should be some spot on the body totally
devoil of feeling. It was the object of the witch-
pricker to discover this spot, and the unhappy
wight who did not bleed when pricked upon it, waa
doomed to the death. If not immediately cast into
prison, her life was rendered miserable by the per-
secution of her neighbours. It is recorded of many
poor women, that the annoyances th~y endured in
this way were so excessive, that they preferred
death. Sir George Mackenzie, the Lord Ad~o.
cate, at the time when witch-trials were so frequent,
and himself a devout believer in the crime, relates,
in his "Criminal Law," first published in 1678,
some remarkable instances of it. He says, "I went,
when I was a justice·depute, to examine some
TH.E WITCH MANIA. 231
women who had confessed judicially: and one of
them, who was a silly creature, told me, under
secrecy, that she had not confessed because she was
guilty, but being a poor creature who wrought for
her meat, and being defamed for a witch, she knew
she should starve; for no person thereafter would
either give her meat or lodging, and that all men
would beat her and set dogs at her ; and that,
therefore, she desired to be out of the world ;
whereupon she wept most bitterly, and upon her
knees called God to witness to what she said."
Sir George, though not whoJly elevated above the
prejudices of his age upon this subject, was clear-
sighted enough to see the danger to society of the
undue encouragement given to the witch-prosecu-
tions. He was convinced that three-fourths ofthem
were unjust and unfounded. He says, in the work
already quoted, that the persons who .were in gene-
ral accused of this crime, were poor ignorant men
and women, who did not understand the nature of
the accusation, and who mistook their own super-
stitious fears for witchcraft. One poor wretch, a
weaver, confessed that he was a warlock, and, being
asked why, he replied, because "he had seen the
devil dancing, like a fly, about the candle I" A
simple woman, who, because she was called a witch,
believed that she was, asked the judge upon the
bench, whether a person might be a witch and not
know it 1 Sir George adds, that all the supposed
criminals were subjected to severe torture in prison
THE WITCH MANlA.
from their gaolers, who thought they did God good·
service .by vexing and tormenting them; "and I
know," says this humane and enlightened magis-
trate, H that this usage was the g~ound of all their
confession ; and albeit. the poor miscreants cannot
prove this usage, the actors in it being the only
witnesses, yet the judge should be jealous of it, as
that which did at first elicit the confession, and for
fear of which they dare not retract it." Another
author,• also a firm believer in witchcraft, gives a
still more lamentable instance ofa woman who pre-
ferred execution as a witch to live on under the
imputation. This woman, who knew that three
others were to be strangled and burned on an early
day, sent for the minister of the parish, and con-
fessed that she had sold her soul to Satan. "Where-
upon being called before the judges, she was con-
demned to die with the rest. Being carried forth
to the place ofexecution, she remained silent during
the first, second, and third prayer, and then, per-
ceiving that there remained no more but to rise and
go to the stake, she lifted up her body, and, with a
loud voice, cried out,"' Now all you that see me
this day, know that I am now to die as a witch, by
my own confession, and I free all men, especially
the ministers and magistrates, of the guilt of my
blood. I take it wholly upon myself. My blood
be upon my own head. And, as I must ·make
• "Satan's Invisible World diacovered," by the Rev. G. Sin-
clair.
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANIA.
answer to the God of heaven presently, I declare
I am as free of witchcraft as any child. .But, being
delated by a malicious woman, and put in prison
under the name of a witch, disowned by my hus-
band and friends, and seeing no ground of hope of
ever coming out again, [ made up that confession
to destroy my own life, being weary of it, and
choosing rather to die than to live." As a proof of
the singular obstinacy and blindness of the believ-
ers in witches, it may be stated, that the minister
who relates this story only saw in the dying speech
of the unhappy woman an additional proof that she
was a witch. True indeed is it, that " none are so
blind as those who will not see."
It is time, however, to return to James VI, who
is fairly entitled to share with Pope Innocent,
Sprenger, Bodinus, and Matthew·Hopkins the glory
or the odium of being at the same time a chief
enemy and chiefencourager of witchcraft. Towards
the close of the sixteenth century, many learned
men, both on the Continent and in the isles of
Britain, had endeavoured to disabuse the public
mind on this subject. The most celebrated were
Wierus in Germany, Pietro d'Apone in Italy, and
Reginald Scot in England. Their works excited
the attention of the zealous James, who, mindful of
the involuntary compliment which his merits had
extorted from the devil, was ambitious to deserve it
by still continuing "his greatest enemie." In the
year 1597 he published, in Edinburgh, his famous
THE WITCH MANIA.
treatise on Demonology. Its design may be gather-
ed from the following passage in the introduction.
" The fearful abounding/' says the King, 11
at this
time, and in this country, of these detestable slavet..
of the devil, the witches, or enchanters, hath moved
me, beloved reader, to despatch in post this follow-.
ing treatise of mine, not in any wise, as I protest.
to serve for a show of mine own learning and in-.
gene (ingenuity), but only (moved of conscience)
to p~ess thereby, so far as I. can, to resolve the
doubting hearts of many; bot_
h that such auaulta
of Satan are most certainly practised, and that the
instrument thereof merits most severely to be pun-
ished, against the damnable opinions of two, prin-
cipally·in our age, whereof the one, called Scot, an
Englishman, is not ashamed, in public print, to
deny that there can be such thing as witchcraft,
and so maintains the old error of the Sadducees, in
denying of spirits. The other, ca1led Wierus, a
German physician, sets out a public apology for all
these crafts-folks, whereby procuring for them im-
punity, he plainly betrays himself to have been one
of that profession." In other parts of this treatiae,
which the author bad put into the form of a dia-
logue to ~'make it more pleasant and facile," he
aays, cr Witches ought to be put to death, accord-
ing to the law of God, the civil and imperial law,
and the municipal law of all Christian nations:
yea, to spare the life, and not strike whom God
bids strike, and so severely punish in ao odious
II 1 I
THE WlTCH MANIA. 285
a treason against God, is not only unlawful, but
doubtless as great a sin in the magistrate, as was
Saul's sparing Agag." He says also, that the crime
is so abominable, that it may be proved by evidence
which would not be received against any other
ofl'enders,-young children, who knew not the na-
ture of an oath, and persons of an infamous cha-
racter, being sufficient witnesses against them; but
lest the innocent should be accused of a crime so
difficult to be acquitted of, he recommends that in
all cases the ordeal should be resorted to. He
says, n Two good helps may be used: the one is,
the finding of their mark, and the trying the insen-
sibleness thereof; the other is their floating on the
water; for, as in a secret murther, if the dead car-
cass be at any time thereafter handled by the mur-:
therer, it will gush out of blood, as if the blood
were crying to Heaven for revenge of the murtherer,
(God having appointed that secret· supernatural
sign for trial of that secret unnatural crime); so
that it appears that God bath appointed (for a
supernatural sign of the monstrous impiety of
witches) that the water shall refuse to receive them
in her bosom, that have shaken ofF them the sacred
water of baptism, and wilfully refused the benefit
thereof; no, not so much as their eyes are able
to shed tears (threaten and torture them as you
please), while first they repent (God not permitting
them to dissemble their obstinacy in so horrible
a crime). Albeit, the womenkind especially, be
THE WITCH MANtA.
able otherwise to shed tears at every light occasion,
when they will ; yea, although it were dissembling,
like the crocodiles."
When such doctrines as these were openly pro-
mulgated by the highest authority in the realm,
and who, in promulgating them, flattered, but did
not force the public opinion, it is not surprising
that the sad delusion should have increased and
multiplied, until the race of wizards and witches
replenished the earth. The reputation which he
lost by being afraid of a naked sword, he more than
regained by his courage in combating the devil.
The Kirk showed itself a most zealous coadjutor,
especially during those halcyon days when it was
not at issue with the King upon other matters of
doctrine and prerogative.
On his secession to the throne of England, in
1608, James came amongst a people who had heard
with admiration of his glorious deeds against the
witches. He himself left no part of his ancient
prejudices behind him, and his advent was the sig-
nal for the persecution to burst forth in England
with a fury equal to that in Scotland. It had Ian~
guished a little during the latter years of the reign
of Elizabeth ; but the very first Parliament of King
James brought forward the subject. James was
flattered by their promptitude, and the act passed
in 1604. On the second reading in the House of
Lords, the hill passed into a committtee, in which
were twelve bisbopii. By it was enacted, " That if
j 1 ' I
'l'HE WITCH MANIA. 231
any person shall use, practise, or exercise any con-
juration of any wicked or evil spirit, or shall con-
sult, covenant with, or feed any such spirit, the
first offence to be imprisonment for a year and
standing in the pillory once a quarter ; the second
offence to be death.,.
The minor punishment seems but rarely to have
been inflicted. Every .record that has been pre-
served, mentions that the witches were hanged and
burned, or burned without the previous strangling,
4
r alive and quick.". During the whole of James's
reign, amid the civil wars of his successor, the sway
of the Long Parliament, the usurpation of Crom-
well, and the reign of Charles II, there was no
abatement of the persecution. If at any time it
raged with less virulence, it was when Cromwell
and the Independents were masters. Dr. Zachary
Grey, the editor of an edition of "Hudibras," in-
forms us, in a note to that work, that he himself
perused a list of three thousand witches who were
executed in the time of the Long Parliament alone.
During the first eighty years of the seventeenth
century, the number executed has been estimated
at five hundred annually, making the frightful total
of forty thousand. Some of these cases deserve
to be cited. Tbe great majority resemble close-
ly those already mentioned, but two or three of
them let in a new light upon the popular super-
stition.
Every one has heard of the "Lancashire witches,"
'\
238 THE WITCH MANIA.
a phrase now used to compliment the ladies of that
county for their bewi~ching beauty; but it is not
every one who has heard the story in which it
originated. A villainous boy, named Robinson, was
the chief actor in the tragedy. He confessed, many
years afterwards, that he had been sub,nned by
his father and other persons to give false evidence
against the unhappy witches whom be brought to
the stake. The time of this famous trial was about
the ·year 1634. This boy Robinson, whose father
was a wood-cutter, residing on the borders of Pen-
dle Forest, in Lancashire, spread abroad many
rumours against one Mother Dickenson, whom he
accused of being a witch. These rumours coming
to the ears of the local magistracy, the boy was
sent for, and strictly examined. He told the fol-
lowing extraordinary story. without hesitation or
prevarication. and apparently in so open and honest
a manner, that no one who heard him doubted the
truth of it :-He said, that as he was roaming about
in one of the glades of the forest, amusing himself
by gathering blackberries, he saw two greyhounds
before him, which be thought at the time belonged
to some gentleman of the neighbourhood. Being
fond of sport, he proposed to have a course, and
a bare being started,.he incited the hounds to run.
Neither of them would stir. Angry at the beasts,
he seized hold of a switch, with which he was about
to punish them, when one of them suddenly started
up in the form of a woman, and the other, of a
\ \ h ,, I
THE WITCH MANlA. 239
little boy. He at on<!e recognised the woman to
be the witch Mother Dickenson. She offered him
some money to induce him to sell his soul to the
devil; but he refused. Upon this she took a bridle
out of her pocket, and, shaking it over the head of
the other little boy, he was instantly turned into
s horse. Mother Dickenson then seized hlm in her
arms, sptang upon the horse ; and, placing him heM
fore her, rode with the swiftness of the wind over
forests, fields, bogs, and rivers, until they came to a
large barn. The witch alighted at the door; and
taking him by the hand, led him inside. There
he saw seven old women, pulling at seven halters
which hung from the roof. As they pulled, large
pieces of meat, lumps of butter, loaves of bread,
basins of.milk, hot puddings, black puddings, and
other rural dainties, fell from the halters on to the
floor. While engaged in this charm they made
such ugly faces, and looked so fiendish, that he was
quite frightened. After they had pulled, in this
manner enough for an ample feast, they set-to, and
showed, whatever might be said of the way in which
their supper was procured, that their epicurism
was a little more refined than thnt of the Scottish
witches, who, according to Gellie Duncan's con-
fession, feasted upon dead men's 1lesh in the old
kirk of Berwick. The boy added, that as soon as
supper was ready, many other witches came to par-
take of it, several of whom he named. In con-
sequence of this story' many persons were arrested,
j 1 ' I
240 THE WITCH MANIA.
and the boy Robinson was led about from church
to church, in order that he might point out to the
officers, by whom he was accompanied, the hags be
had seen in the bam. Altogether about twenty
persons were thrown into prison ; eight of them
were condemned to die, including Mother Dicken-
son, upon this evidence alone, and executed ac-
cordingly. Among the wretches who conc<Jcted this
notable story, not one was ever brought to justice
for Jris perjury; and Robinson, the father, gained
considerable sums by threatening persons who were
rich enough to buy off exposure.
Among the ill weeds which flourished amid the
long dissensions of the civil war, Matthew Hop-
kins, the witch-finder, stands eminent in his sphere.
This vulgar fellow resided, in the year 1644, at the
town of Manningtree, in Esse~ and made himself
very conspicuous in discovering the devil's marks
upon several unhappy witches. The credit be
gained by his skill in this instance seems to have
inspired him to renewed exertions. In the course
of a very short time, whenever a witch was spoken
of in Essex, Matthew Hopkins was sure to be
present, aiding the judges with his knowledge of
"such cattle," as he calJed them. As his reputa-
tion increased, he assumed the title of " Witch-
finder General," and travelled through the counties
of Norfolk, Essex, Huntingdon, and Sussex, for the
sole purpose of finding out witches. In one year
he brought sixty poor creatures to the stake. The
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANIA.
test he commonly adopted was that of swimming,
so highly recommended by King James in his" De-
monologie." The hands and feet of the suspected
persons were tied together crosswise, the thumb of
the right hand to the toe of the left foot, and
vice 'Dersd. They were then wrapped up in a large
sheet or blanket, and laid upon their backs in a
pond or river. If they sank, their friends and re:-
latives had the poor consolation of knowing they
were innocent, but there was an end of them : if
they floated, which, when laid carefully on the water
was generally the case, there was also an end of
them; for they were deemed guilty of witchcraft,
and burned accordingly.
Another test was to make them repeat the Lord's
prayer and creed. It was affirmed that no witch
could do so correctly. If she missed a word, or
even pronounced one incoherently, which in her
trepidation, it was most probable she would, she
was accounted guilty. It was thought that witches
could .not weep more than three tears, and those
only from the _left eye. Thus the conscious inno-
cence of many persons, which gave them fortitude
to ~ear unmerited torture without flinching, was
co.nstrued by their unmerciful tormentors into proofs
ofguilt. In some districts the test resorted to was
to weigh the culprit against the church Bible. If
the suspe~ted witch proved heavier than the Bible,
she .was set at liberty. This mode was far too
humane _
for the witch-finders by profession. .Hop..
VOL. 11. R
THE WITCH MANIA.
kins always maintained that the most legit-imate
modes were pricking and swimming.
Hopkins used to travel through his counties like
a man of consideration, attended by his two assist-
ants, always putting up at the chief inn of the
place, and always at the cost of the authorities.
His charges were twenty shillings a town, his ex-
penses of living while there, and his carriage thither
and back. This he claimed whether he found
witches or not. If he found any, he claimed tw.enty
shillings a head in addition when they.were brought
to execution. For about three, years .be carried on
this infamous trade, success making him so insolent
and rapacious, that high and low became his enemies.
The Rev. Mr. Gaul, a clergyman of.Houghton, in
Huntingdonshire, wrote a pamphlet impugning his
pretensions, and accusing him of·being a ·common
nuisance. Hopkins replied in· an angry letter to
the functionaries of Houghton, stating his intention
to visit their town ; but desiriqg to know whether
it afforded many such sticklers for witchcraft as
Mr. Gaul, and whether they were wilJing to receive
and entertain him with the customary hospitality,
if he so far honoured them. He added, by.way of
threat, that in case he did not receive a satisfactory
reply, "He would waive their shire altogether,
and betake himself to such places ,where be might
do and punish, not only without control, but with
thanks and recompence." The authorities ofHough-
ton were not much alarmed at his awful threat
..
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANIA. 248
of letting them alone. They very wisely took no
notice either of him or his letter.
Mr. Gaul describes in his pamphlet one of the
modes employed by Hopkins, which was sure to
swell his· revenues very considerably. It was a
proof even more atrocious than the swimming. He
.says1 that the •• Witch-finder Generat" used to take
the -suspected witch and place _
her in the middle
·of,a room, upon a stool or table; cross..legged, or
in ,some other uneasy posture~ ·If she refused to
si~ in· this manner, she was :bound .with strong
cords. Hopkins then placed persons to watch her
.for four-and~twenty hours, during which time she
-was to be kept without meat 011 drink. ~ It was sup-
posed that one of her imps would come•during that
interval, and suck her blood. . As. the imp might
come ·in the shape of a·wasp, a moth, a fly, or other
insee,t~ a hole was made in the ·door :or window
.to let it enter. The watchers were wdered to keep
a tharp look-out, and endeavour: to·kill any insect
that appeared in the room. If any fly ·escaped,
and .they could not kill it, the woman was: guilty;
the:ily was her imp, and she was<
sentenced .to be
burned, and twenty shillings went into the .pockets
of Master Hopkins. In this manner he: made one
old woman confess, because four.Hies :had appeared
in the room, t~at she was attended by four imps,
named "Ilemazar," "Pye-wackett,•• "Peck-In-the-
crown,•• and "Grizel-Greedigut.~ ,, _. '
It is consoling to think that this impostor perish-
R2
THE WITCH MANIA.
·ed in his own snare. Mr. Gaul's exposure and his
own rapacity weakened his influence among the
magistrates; and the populace, who began to find
that not even the most virtuous and innocent were
secure from his persecution, looked upon him with
undisguised aversion. He was beset by a mob, at
a village in Suffolk, and accused ofbeing himself
a wizard. An old reproach was brought against
him, that he had, by means of sorcery, cheated the
devil out of a certain memorandum-book, in which
he, Satan, had entered the names of all the witches
in England. H Thus,.. said the populace, n you
find out witches, not by God's aid, but by the
devil's." In vain he denied his guilt. The popu~
.lace longed to put him to his own test. He was
speedily stripped, and his thumbs and toes tied
together. He was then placed in a blanket, and
·cast into a ~nd. Some say that he floated ; ·and
that he was t~en out, tried, and executed upon no
.other proof of his guilt. Others assert that he was
drowned. This much is positive, that there was
an end ofhim. As no judicial entry ofhis trial and
execution is to be found in any register, it appears
most probable that be expired by the hands of the
·mob. Butler has immortalized this scamp in the
following lines ofhis u Hudibras:"-
u Hath not this present Parliament
A lieger to the devil sent,
Fully empower'd to treat about
Finding revolted witches out ?
TILE WITCH MANIA.
And has he not within a year
Hang'd threescore of them in one shire ?
Some only for not being drown'd,
And some for Bitting above ground
Whole days and nights upon their breeches,
And feeling pain, were hang'd for witches;
And some for putting knavish tricks
Upon green geese or turkey chicks;
Or pigs that suddenly deceased
Ofgriefs unnatural, aa he guess'd ;
Who proved himself at length a witch,
And made a rod for his own breech."
245
In Scotland also witch-finding became a trade.
They were known under the designation of "com-
mon prickers,'' and, like Hopkins, received a fee
for each witch they discovered. At the trial of
Janet Peaston, in 1646, the magistrates of Dalkeitb
u.caused John Kincaid, of Tranent, the common
pricker, to exercise his craft upon her. He found
two marks of the devil's making; forJoShe could not
feel the pin when it was put into ei/Her of the sa\d
marks, nor did the marks bleed when the pin was
taken out again. When she was asked where she
thought the pins were put in her, she pointed to
a part of her body distant from the real place.
They were pins of three inches in length."•
. These common priciers became at last so nume-
rous, that they were considered nuisances. The
judges refused to take their evidence, and in 1678
the privy council of Scotland condescended to hear
the complaint of an honest woman, who had been
• Pitcairn's "Records ofJusticiary."
THE WITCH MANIA.
indecently exposed by one of them, and expressed
their opinion that common prickers were common
cheats.
But such an opinion was not formed in high
places before hundreds of innocent persons had
fallen victims. Tlie Parliaments had encouraged
the delusion both in England and Scotland ; and~
by arming these fellows with a sort of authority,
had in a manner forced the magistrates and minis-
ters to receive their evidence. The fate of one
poor. old gentleman,·who fell a victim to the arts
of Hopkins in-1646• deserves to be recorded. Mr.
Louis, a·venerable. clergyman, upwards of seventy
years of age, and who:had been rector of Framling- .
ham, in Suffolk., for fifty years, excited suspicion that
be was a wizard. Being a violent royalist, he was
likely to meet with no sympathy at that time; and
even hls ·own pariibioners, whom be had served so
long and.so faithfully, turned their backs upon him
aa soon as be was accused. Placed under the
hands of Hopkins, who knew so well how to bring
the refractory. to.confession, the old man, the light
of .whose .intellect had become somewhat dimmed
from age, confessed that he was a wizard. He said.
be had two imps, that continually excited him to
do evil ; and that one day, when he was walking
on the sea-coast, one of them prompted him to
express a wish that a ship, whose sails were just vi-
sible in the distance, might sink. He consented,
THE WITCH MANIA.
and saw the vessel ·sink before his eyes. He was,
upon this confession, tried and condemned. On
his trial the flame ofreason burned up as brightly
as ever. He de~ied all that had been alleged
against him, and cross-examined Hopkins with great
tact and severity. Mter his condemnation, bebegged
that the .funeral service of the church might be
read Jor him. The request was refused, and he
repeated it for himself from memory, as he was led
to the scaffold.
A poor woman in Scotland was executed upon
evidence even .less strong than this. Jobn Bain,
a common pricker, swore that, as be passed her
door, he heard her talking to the devil. She said
in defence. that it was a foolish practice she had
of talking to herself, and several of her neighbours
~orroborated her statement ; but the evidence of
the pricker was received. He swore that none ever
talked to themselves who were not witches. The
devil's mark being found upon her, the additional
testimony of her guilt was deemed conclusive, and
she was u convict and brynt.»
From the year 1652 to 1682, these trials di-
minished annually in number, and acquittals were
by no means so rare .as they had been. To doubt
in witchcraft was no longer dangerous. Before
country justices, condemnations on the most ab-
surd evidence stiJl continued, but when the judges
of the land bad to charge the jury, they took a
-,
THE WlTCH MANIA.
more humane and philosophical view. By degrees,
the educated classes (comprised, in those days,
within very narrow limits), openly expressed their
unbelief of modern Witchcraft, although they were
not bold enough to deny its existence altogether.
Between them and the believers in the old doc-
trine fierce· arguments ensued, and the sceptics
were designated Sadducees. To convince them,
the learned and Reverend Joseph Glanvil wrote
his well-known work, u Sadducismus Triumpha-
tus," and u The Collection of Relations;" the first
part intended as a philosophical inquiry into witch.;.
craft, and the power of the devil ''to assume a
mortal shape;" the latter containing what he con-
sidered a multitude of well-authenticated modern
instances.
But though progress was made, it was slow. In
I664s, the venerable Sir Matthew Hale condemned
two women, named Amy Duny and Rose Cullen.:
der, to the stake at St.Edmondsbury, upon evidence
the most.ridiculous. These two old women, whose
ugliness gave their neighbours the first idea that
t'bey 'were witches, went to a shop to purchase
herrings, and were refused. lndignant at the 'pre-
judice against them, they were not sparing of their
·abuse. Shortly afterward, the daughter of the
h·erring-dealer fell sick, and a cry was raised that
she was bewitched by the old women who had been
refused the herrings. This girl was subject to epi·
leptic fits. To discover the guilt of Amy Duny
THE WITCH MANIA.
and Rose Cu1lender, the girl's eyes were blinded
closely with a shawl, and the witches were com-
manded to touch her. They did so, and she was
immediately seized with a fit. Upon this evidence
they were sent to prison. The girl was afterwards
touched by an indifferent person, and the force of
her imagination was so great, that, thinking it was
again the witches, she fell down in a violent fit
as before. This, however, was not received in
favour of-the accused.
The following extract, from the published reports
of the trial, will show the sort of evidence which
was received :-
"Samuel Pacey, ofLeystoft (a good, sober man,)
being sworn, said that, on Thursday the lOth of
October last, his younger daughter, Deborah, about
nine years old, was suddenly taken.so lame that she
could not stand on her legs, and so continued till
the 17th of the same month, when the child desired
to be ·carried to a bank on the east side of the
bouse, looking towards the sea ; and, while she was
sitting there, Amy Duny came to this examinant's
bouse to buy some herrings, but was denied. Theil
· she came twice more, but, being as often denied,
she went away discontented and grumbling. At
this instant of time, the child was taken with ter-
rible fits, complaining of a pain in her stomach, as
if she was pricked with yins, shrieking out with a
voice like a whelp, and thus continued till the 30th
of the same month. This examinant further saith,
{ I I )o I
250 THE WITCH MANIA•...
•
.
that Amy Duny,_having long had the reputation
of a witch, and his child having, in the intervals of
her fita, constantly cried out on her, as the cause of
her disorder, saying, that the said Amy did appear
to her and fright her, he himself did suspect the
said Amy to be a witch, and charged her with being
the cause of his child's illness, and set her in the
stocks. Two days after, his daughter Elizabeth
was taken with such strange 1its, that they could
not force open her mouth without a tap ; and the
younger child being in the same condition, they
used to her.the same remedy. Both children griev-
ously complained that Amy Duny and another
woman, whose .habit and looks they described, did
· appear to .them, and torment them, and would cry
out, c There stands .Amy Duny I There stands
Rose Cullender !' the other person who afflicted
them. Their fits were not alike. Sometimes they
wer.e lame on the right side ; sometimes on the left;
and sometimes so sore, that they could not hear to
be touched. Sometimes they were perfectly well
in other respects, but they could not hear; at other
times, they could not see. Sometimes they ·lost
their speech for one, two, and once for eight, days
together. At times they had swooning fits, and,
when they could speak, were taken with a fit of
coughing, and vomited phlegm and crooked pins;
and once a great twopenny nail, with above forty
pins; which nail be, the examinant, saw vomited up,
with many of the pins. The nail and pins were
TU£ . WITCH MANIA, !51
produced in the court. Thus the children con-
tinued for two months, during which time the ex-
aminant often made them read in the New Testa-
ment, and obserted, when they came to the words
Lord Jesus, or Christ, they could not pronounce
them, but fell into a fit. When they came to the
word Satan, or ilevil, they would point, and say,
• This bites, but makes me speak right well.' Find-
ing his ·children thus tormented without hopes of
tecovery, he sent them to his sister, ~argaret
ArhoHl, at 'Yarmou'th, being willing to try whether
ch~mge-of air would help them.
4
' Margaret Arnold was the next witness. Being
sworn, she said, that about the 30th of November,
Elizabeth and Deborah Pacey came to her house,
with her brother, who told her what bad happened,
and that be thought his children bewitched. She,
this examinant, did not much regard it, supposing
the children had played tricks, and put the pins
into their mouths themselves. She, therefore, took
all the pins from their clothes, sewing them with
thread instead of pinning them. But, notwith-
standing, they raised, ·at times, at least thirty pins,
in her presence, and bad terrible fits ; in which fits
they would cry out upon Amy Duny and Rose Cui-
lender, saying, that they saw them and heard them
threatening, as before; that they saw things, like
mice, running about the house ; and one of them
catched one, and threw it into the fire, which made
a noise, like a rat. Another time the younger
THE WITCH MANIA..
child, being out of doors, a thing like a bee would
have forced itself into her mouth, at which the child
ran screaming into the house, and before this ex-
aminant could come at her, fell into a fit, and
vomited a twopenny nail, with a broad head. .After
that, this examinant asked the child how she came
by this nail, when she answered, ' The bee brought
the nail, and forced it into my mouth.' At other
times~ the eldest child told this examinant that she
saw flies bring her crooked pins. She would then
fall into a fit, and vomit such pins. One time the
said child said she saw a mouse, and crept under
the table to look for it; and afterwards, the child
seemed to put something into her apron, saying,
~ She had caught it.' She then ran to the fire, and
threw it in, on which there did appear to .this ex-
aminant something like a flash ·of gunpowder, al-
though she does own she saw nothing in the child's
band. Once the child, being speechless, but other-
wise very sensible~ ran up and down the bouse, cry-
ing, 'Hush! hush I' as ifshe had seen poultry ; but
this examinant saw nothing. At last the child
catched at something, and threw it into the fire.
Afterwards, when the child could speak, this ex-
aminant asked her what she saw at the time? She
answered, that she saw a duck. Another time the
youngest child said, after a nt, that Amy Duny had
been with her, and tempted her to drown herself, or
cut her throat, or otherwise destroy herself. An-
other time they both ·cried out upon Amy Duny
THE WITCH MANIA. 25S
and Rose Cullender, saying,' Why don't .you come
yourselves? Why do you send your imps to tor-
ment us?'"
The celebrated Sir Thomas Brown, the author of
n Vulgar Errors," was also examined as a witness
upon the trial. Being desired to give his opinion
ofthe three persons in court, he said, he was clearly
of opinion that they were bewitched. He said,
there had lately been a discovery of witches in Den-
mark, who used the same way of tormenting per-
sons, by conveying crooked pins, needles, and nails
into their bodies. That he thought, in such cases,
the devil acted upon human bodies by ·natural
means, namely, by exciting and.stirring up the su-
perabundant humours, he did afBict them in a more
surprising manner by the same diseases their bodies
were usually subject to; that these nts might be
natural, only raised to a great degree by the sub-
tlety of the devil, co-operating with the malice of
these witches.
The evidence being concluded, Sir Matthew Hale
addressed the jury. He said, he would waive re-
peating the evidence, to prevent any mistake, und
told the jury, there were two things they bad to in-
quire into. First, Whether or not these children
were bewitched; secondly, Whether these women
did bewitch them. He said, he did not in the least
doubt there were witches; first, Because the Scrip-
tures affirmed it; secondly, Because the wisdom of
tlll nations, particularly our own, ba~ provided law~
254. THE WITCH MANIA.
against witchcraft, which implied their belief of
such a crime. He desired them strictly to observe
the evidence, and begged of God to direct their
hearts in the weighty concern they had in hand,
· since, to condemn the innocent and let the guilty
go free, are both an abomination to the Lord. .· ·
The jury then retired, and, in about half an hour,
returned a verdict of guilty upon all the indict-
ments, being thirteen in number. The next morn-
ing the children came with their father to the.lodg-
ings of Sir Matthew Hale, very. well, and quite
restored to their usual health. Mr. Pacey, being.
asked at what time their health began to improve,
replied, that they were quite wel~ in, half an hour
after the conviction of the prisoners.
Many attempts were made ~o induce tpe unfor..
tunate women to confess their guilt; but in vain,
and they were both hanged.
Eleven trials were institut~d before Chief
-Ju~~ice
Holt for witchcraft between the years 1694 and
1701. The evidence was of the usual character;
but Holt appealed so successfully i~ ea~h case to
the common sense of the jury, that they were every ·
one acquitted. A general feeling see~ed. to per-
vade the country that blood enough had been she~
upon these absurd charges. Now and ·then, the
flame of persecution burnt up in a remote dis-
trict ; but these instances were no longer looked
upon as mere matters of course. They appear,
on the contrary, to have excited roue~ attention;
THE WITCH MANIA. 255
a sure proof, if no other were to be obtained,
that they were becoming unfrequent.
A case of witchcraft was tried in 1711, before
Lord Chief Justice Powell; in which, however, the
jury persisted in a verdict of guilty, though the
evidence was of the usual absurd and contradictory
character, and the enlightened judge did all in his
power to bring them to a right conclusion. The
accused personwas one JaneWenham, better known
as the Witch of Walkerne; and the persons who
were alleged to have suffered from her witchcraft
were two young women, named Thorne and Street.
A witness, named Mr. Arthur Chauncy, deposed,
that be had seen Ann Thorne in several ofher fits,
and that she always recovered upon prayers being
said, or if Jane Wenham came to her~ He related,
that be had pricked the prisoner several times in
the arms, but could never fetch any blood from her;
that he had seen her vomit pins, when there were
none in her clothes or within her reach ; and that
he bad preserved several of them, which he was
ready to produce. The judge; however, told hitn
that was needless, as he suppo1ed they were crooked
pins. ·
Ml'. Francis Bragge, another witness, deposed,
that strange u cakes" of bewitched feathers having
been taken from Ann Thorne's pillow~ he was
anxious to see them. He went' into a room where
60me ofthese feathers were, and took two of the
c~es; and compared them together. They were
j 1 ' I
256 THE WITCH MANIA.
both of a circular figure, something larg~r than .a
crown piece ; and he observed that the small fe~
thers were placed in a nice and curious order, at
equal distanc.es from each other, making so many
radii of the circle, in the centre of which the quill
ends of the feathers met~ He counted the number
.of these feathers, and found them to be exactly
thirty...two in each cake. He afterwards endea-
.voured to pull off two or three of them, and ob.
served that they were all fastened together by .a
sort of viscous matter, which would stretch seven or
eight times in a thread before it broke. Having
taken off several of these fea~hers, he removed the
viscous matter with his fingers, and found under it,
in the .centre, some short hairs, black and grey,
matted together, which he verily be1ieved to be
eat's hair. He also said, that Jane Wenham con-
fessed to him that she had bewitched the pillow,
and had practised witchcraft for sixteen years.
The judge interrupted the witness .at this stage,
and said, he .should very .much like to see an en-
chanted feather, and seemed to wonder whe.n he
was told that none of these strange cakes bad been
preserved. His Lordship asked the witness why he
did not keep one.or two of them, and was informed
that they had all been burnt, in order to relieve the
· bewitched person of the pains she .suffered, which
could not be .so well effected by any other means.
A man, named Thomas Ireland, deposed, that
hearing several tim~s a great noise of cats crymg
TilE WITCH MANIA. 257
and screaming about his house, he went out and
frightened them away, and tbey alt ran towards .the
cottage of Jane Wenham. One of them he swore
positively had a face very like Jane Wenham's.
Another man, named Burville, gave similar evi-
dence, and swore that be had often seen a cat with
Jane Wenham's face. Upon one occasion he was
in Ann Thorne's chamber, when several cats came
in, and among them the cat above stated. This
witness would have favoured the court with a much
longer statement, but was stopped by the judge,
who said he bad heard quite enough.
The prisoner, in her defence, said nothing, but
that" she was a clear woman.'' The learned judge
then summed up, leaving it to the jury to deter-
mine whether such evidence as they bad heard was
sufficient to take away the prisoner's life upon the
indictment. After a long deliberation they brought
in their verdict, that she was guilty upon the evi-
dence. The Judge then asked them whether they
found her guilty upon the indictment of conversing
with the devil in the shape of a cat1 The sapient
foreman· very gravely ·answered, ·u We find her
guilty of that." The learned judge then very re-
luctantly proceeded to pass sentence of death; but,
by his persevering exertions, a pardon was at last
obtained, and the wretched old woman was set at
liberty.
In the year 1716, a woman and her daughter,-
tbe latter only nine years of age,-were hanged
VOL. II. s
...
258 THE WITCH MANIA.
at Huntingdon for selling their souls to the devil,
and raising a storm by pulling ofF their stockings
and making a lather of soap. This appears to
have been the last judicial execution in England.
From that time to the year 1786, the populace
raised at intervals the old cry, and more than once
endangered the lives of poor women by dragging
them through ponds on suspicion ; but the philo-
sophy of those who, from their position, sooner
or later give the tone to the opinions and morals
of the poor, was silently working a cure for the
evil. The fear of witches ceased to be epidemic,
and became individual, lingering only in minds
fettered by inveterate prejudice or brutalizing su-
perstition. In the year 1786~ the penal statute
of James I. was finally blotted from the statute-
book, and suffered no longer to disgrace the ad-
vancing intelligence of the country. Pretenders to
witehcraft, fortune-tellers, conjurors, and all their
train, were liable only to the common punishment
of rogues and impostors-:- imprisonment and the
P.illory.
In Scotland, the delusion also assumed the same
phases, and was gradually extinguished in the light
ofcivilization. As in England the progress of im-
provement was slow. Up to the year 1665, little
or no. diminution of the mania was perceptible.
In 1648, the General Assembly recommended that
the Privy Council should institute a standing com-
mission, composed of any "understanding gentle-
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANIA•. 259
men or magistrates," to try the witches, who were
stated to have increased enormously of late years.
In 1649, an act was passed, confirmatory of the
original statute of Queen Mary, explaining some
points of the latter which were doubtful, and enact-
ing severe penalties, not only against witches them-
selves, but against all who covenanted with them,
or sought by their means to pry into the secrets
of futurity, or cause any evil to the life, lands, or
limbs of their neighbours. For the next ten years,
the popular madness upon this subject was perhaps
more furious than ever; upwards of four thousand
persons suffered for the crime during that interval.
This was the consequence of the act of parlia-
ment and the unparalleled severity of the magis-
trates; the latter frequently complained that for
two witches they burned one day, there were ten
to burn th.e next : they never thought that they
themselves were the cause of the increase. In a
single circuit, held at Glasgow, Ayr, and Stirling,
in. 1659, seventeen unhappy creatures were burned
by judicial sentence for trafficking with Satan. In
one day, (November 7, 1661,) the Privy Council
issued no less than fourteen commissions for trials
in the provinces. Next year, the violence of the
persecution seems to have abated. From 1662 to
1668, although u the understanding gentlemen and
magistrates" already mentioned, continued to try
and condemn, the High Court ofJusticiary had but
one offender of this class to deal with, and she was
s2
•
260 TUE WITCU MANIA.
acquitted. James Welsh, a common pricker, was
ordered to be publicly whipped through the streets
of Edinburgh for falsely accusing a woman of witch-
craft; a fact which alone proves that the superior
court sifted the evidence in these cases with much
more care and severity than it bad done a few
years previously. The enlightened Sir George
Mackenzie, styled by Dryden u the noble wit of
Scotland," laboured hard to introduce tbis rule
into court-that the confessions of the witches
· should be held of little worth, and that the evi-
dence of the prickers and other interested persons
should be received with distrust andjealousy. This
was reversing the old practice, and saved many in-
nocent lives. Though a firm believerboth in ancient
and modern witchcraft, he could not shut his eyes
to the atrocities daily committed under the name
of justice. In his work on the Criminal Law of
Scotland, published in 1678, he says, " From the
horridness of this crime, I do conclude that, of all
others, it requires the clearest relevancy and most
convincing probature ; and I condemn, next to the
wretches themselves, those cruel and too forward
judges who burn persons by thousands as guilty
of this crime." In the same year, Sir John Clerk
plumply refused to serve as a commissioner on
trials for witchcraft, alleging, by way of excuse,
"that he was not himself good conjuror enough
to be duly qualified." The views entertained by:
Sir George Mackenzie were so favourably received ,
I
THE WITCH MANIA. 261
by the Lords of Session that he was deputed, in
1680, to report to them on the cases of a number
of po.or women who were then in prison awaiting
their trial. Sir George stated that there was no
evidence against them wnatever but their own con-
fessions, which were absurd and contradictory, and
drawn from them by severe torture. They were
immediately discharged.
For the next sixteen years, the Lords of Sessio~
were unoccupied with trials for witchcraft; not
one is entered upon the record: but in 1697, a
case occurred, which equalled in absurdity any of
those that signalized the aark reign of King James.
A girl,' named Christiana Shaw, eleven years of
age, the· daughter of John Shaw of Bargarran,
was subject to fits, and being of a spiteful temper,
she accused her maid-servant, with whom she had
frequent. quarrels, ·of bewitching her. Her story,
unfortunately, was believed. Encouraged to tell
all the persecutions of the devil which the . maid
had sent to torment her, she in the end concocted
a romance that involved twenty-one persons. There
was no other evidence against them but the fan-
cies of this lying child, and the confessions which
pain bad extorted from them ; but upon this no
less than five women were condemned, before Lord
Blantyre and the rest of the Commissioners, ap-
pointed specially by ·the Privy Council to try this
case. They were burned on the Green at Paisley.
The warlock of the party, one John Reed, who was
( I I )o I
THE WITCH MANIA.
also condemned, hanged himself in prison. It was
. the general belief in Paisley that the devil had
strangled him, lest he should have revealed in his
last moments too many of the unholy secrets of
witchcraft. This trial e~cited considerable disgust
in Scotland. The Rev. Mr. Bell, a contemporary
writer, observed that, in this business, u persons
of more goodness and esteem than most of their
c.alumniators were defamed for witches." He adds,
that the persons chiefly to blame were '' certain
ministers of too much forwardness and absurd cre-
dulity, and some topping professors in and about
Glasgow."•
After this trial, there again occurs a lapse of
seven years, when the subject was painfully forced
upon public attention by the brutal cruelty of the
mob at Pittenween. Two women were accused
of having bewitched a strolling beggar, who was
subject to fits, or who pretended to be so, for the
purpose of exciting commiseration. They were
cast into prison, and tortured until they confess~d.
One of them, named Janet Cornfoot, contrived to
escape, but was brought back to Pittenween next
day by a party of soldiers. On her approach to
the town, she was, unfortunately, met by a furious
mob, composed principally of fishermen and their
wives, who seized upon her with the intention of
swimming her. They forced her away to the sea
shore, and tying a rope around her body, secured
• Preface to '1
Law's Memorials," edited by Sharpe.
THE WITCH MANIA.
the end of it to the mast of a fishing-boat lying
alongside. In this manner they ducked her several
times. When she was half dead, a sailor in the
boat cut away the rope, and the mob dragged her
through the sea to the beach. Here, as she lay
quite insensible, a brawny ruffian took down the
door of his hut, close by, and placed it on her back.
The mob gathered large stones from the beach,
and piled them upon her till the wretched woman
was pressed to death. No magistrate made the
slightest attempt to interfere, and the soldiers look- _
ed on, delighted spectators. A great outcry was
raised against this culpable remissness, but no ju-
dicial inquiry was set on foot. This happened in
1704.
The next case we hear of is that of Elspeth
Rule, found guilty of witchcraft before Lord An-
struther at the Dumfries circuit, in 1708. She was
sentenced to be marked in the cheek with a redhot
iron, and banished the realm of Scotland for life.
Again there is a long interval. In 1718, the
remote county of Caithness, where the delusion
remained in all its pristine vigour for years after
it had ceased elsewhere, was startled from its pro-
priety by the cry of witchcraft. A silly fellow,
named William Montgomery, a carpenter, had a
mortal antipathy to cats, and, somehow or other,
these animals generally chose his back-yard as
the scene of their catterwaulings. He puzzled
his brains for a long time to knqw why he, above
THE WITCH MANIA.
all his neighbours, should be so pestered ; at
last be came to the sage conclusion that his tor-
mentors were no cats, but witches. In this opinion
be was supported by his maid-servant, who swore
a round oath that she had often heard the afore-
said cats talking together in human voices. The
next time the unlucky tabbies assembled in hia
back-yard, the valiant carpenter was on the alert.
Arming. himself with an axe, a dirk, and a broad-
sword, he rushed out among them : one of them
he wounded in the back, a second in the hip,
and the leg of a third he maime<l with his axe ;
but he could not capture any of them. A few
days afterwards, two old women of the parish
died, and it was said that, when their bodies were
laid out, there appeared upon the back of one
the mark as of a recent wound, and a similar scar .
upon the hip of the other. The carpenter and
his maid were convinced that they were the very
cats, and the whole county repeated the same
story. Every one was upon the look-out for proofs
corroborative : a very remarkable one was soon dis-
covered. Nanny Gilbert, a wretched old creature
of upwards of seventy years of age, was found in
bed with her)eg broken ; as she was ugly enough
for a witch, it was asserted that she, also, was one
of the cats that had fared so ill at the bands of the
carpenter. The latter, when informed of the popu·
lar suspicion, asserted that be distinctly remem-
bered to have struck one of the cats a blow with
THE .WITCH MANIA.
the back of his broadsword, which ought to have
broken her leg. Nanny was immediately dragged
from her bed, and th.rown into prison. B.efore
she was put to the torture, she explained, in a
very natural and intelligible manner, how she had
broken her limb; but this account did not give
satisfaction : the professional persuasions of the tor-
turer made her tell a different tale, and she con4
fessed that she was indee~ a witch, and had been
wounded by Montgomery on the night stated -
that the two old women recently deceased were
witches also, besides about a score of others whom
she named. The poor creature suffered so much
by the removal from her own home, and the tor-
tures inflicted upon her, that she died the next
day in prison. HappiJy for the persons she had
named in her confession, Dundas of Arniston, at
that time the King's Advocate-general, wrote to
the Sheriff-depute, one Captain Ross of Littledean,
cautioning bim not to proceed to trial, the u thing
being of too great difficulty, and beyond the juris-
diction of an inferior court." Dundas himself 'ex-
amined the precognition with great care.. and was
so convinced of the utter folly of the whole case
that he quashed all further proceedings.
We finu this same SherifF-depute of Caithness
very active four years afterwards in another trial
for witchcraft. In spite of the warning he had
received, that all such cases were to be tried in
future by the superior courts, be condemned to
THE WITCH .MANIA.
death an old woman at Dornoch, upon the charge
of bewitching the cows and pigs of her neighbours.
This poor creature was insane, and actually laughed
and clapped her hands at sight of 11
the bonnie
fire" that was to consume her. She bad a daugh·
ter, who was lame both ofher hands and feet, and
one of the charges brought against her was, that
she had used this daughter as a pony in her ex-
cursions to join the devil's sabbath, and that the
devil himself had shod her, and produced lameness.
This was the last execution that took place in
Scotlan.d for witchcraft. The penal statutes were
repealed in 1786, and, as in England, whipping,
the pillory, or imprisonment, were declared the
future punishments of all pretenders to magic or
witchcraft.
Still, for many years after this, the superstition
lingered both in England and Scotland, and in
some districts is far from being extinct eveB at this
day. But before we proceed to trace it any further
than to its legal extinction, we have yet to see the
frightful havoc it made in continental Europe from
the commencement ofthe seventeenth to the middle
of the eighteenth century. France, Germany, and
Switzerland were the countries which suffered most
from the epidemic. The number ofvictims in these
countries during the sixteenth century bas already
been mentioned ; but, at the early pa)"t ofthe seven-
teenth, the numbers are so great, especially in
Germany, that were they not to be found in the
THE WITCH MANIA. 267
official records of the tribunals, it would be almost
impossible to believe that mankind could ever have
been so maddened and deluded. To use the words
-ofthe learned and indefatigable Horst,• u the world
seemed to be like a large madhouse for witches and
devils to play their antics in." Satan ·was belieJed
to be at everybody>s call, to raise the whirlwind,
draw down the lightning, blight the productions of
the earth, or destroy the health and par~lyse the
Jimbs of man. This belief, so insulting to the ma-
jesty and beneficence of the Creator, was shared by
the most pious ministers of religion. Those who
in their morning and evening prayers acknowledged
the one true God, and praised him for the blessings
of the seed time and the harvest, were convinced
that frail humanity could enter into a compact with
the spirits of hell to subvert his laws and thwart
all his merciful intentions. Successive popes, from
Innocent VIII. downwards, promulgated this de-
grading doctrine, which spread so rapidly that
society seemed to be divided into two great fac-
tions, the bewitching and the bewitched.
The commissioners named by Innocent VIII. to
prosecute the witch-trials in 9ermany, were Jacob
Sprenger, so notorious for his work on demonology,
entitled the "Malleus Maleficarum," or " Hammer
to knock down Witches," Henry Institor a learned
_jurisconsult, and the Bishop of Strasburgh. Bam-
berg, Treves, Cologne, Paderborn, and WUrzburg,
• Zauber Bibliothek. Theil 5.
l I I )o I
268 TH~ WITCH MANIA.
were the chief seats of the commissioners, who,
during their lives alone, condemned to the stake,
on a very moderate calculation, upwards of three
thousand victims. The number of witches so in-
creased, that new commissioners were continuaUy
appointed iri Germany, France, and Switzerland.
In Spain and Portugal the Inquisition alone took
cognizance of the crime. It is impossible to search
the records of those dark, but now happily non-
existing tribunals ; but the mind recoils with af-
fright even to form a guess of the multitudes who
perished.
The mode of trial in the other countries is more
easily ascertained. Sprenger, in Germany, and
Bodinus and Delrio, in France, have left but too
.ample a record of the atrocities committed in the
much-abused names of justice and religion. Bo-
dinus, of great repute and authority in the seven-
teenth century, says, u The trial of th_
is offence
must not be conducted like other crimes. ~hoever
adheres to the ordinary course of justice perverts
the spirit of t.he law, both Divine and human. He
who is accused of sorcery should never be acquitted
unless the malice of t~e prosecutor be clearer than
the sun ; for it is so difficult to bring full proof of
this secret crime, that out ofa million of witches not
one would be convicted if the usual course were fol-
lowed!" Henri Boguet, a witch-finder, who styled
himself u The Grand Judge of Witches for the
Territory of St. Claude," drew up a code for the
THE WITCH MANIA·. 269
guiqance of all persons engaged in the witch-trials,
consisting of seventy articles, quite as cruel as the
code of Bodinus. In this document he affirms, that
a mere suspicion of witchcraft justifies the imme-
diate arrest and torture of the suspected person.
If the prisoner muttered, looked on the ground, and
did not shed any tears, all these were proofs. posi-
tive of guilt! In all cases of witchcraft, the evi-
dence of the child ought to be taken against its
parent; and persons of notoriously bad character,
although not to be believed upon their oaths on
the ordinary occasions of dispute that might arise
between man and man, were to be believed, if
they swore that any person had bewitched them f
Who, when be hears that this diabolical doc~
trine was the universally received opinion of the
ecclesiastical and civil authorities, can wonder that
thousands npon thousands of u.nhappy persons
should be brought to the stalte? that Cologne
should for many years burn its three hundred
witches annually? the district of Bamberg its four
hundred 1 Nuremberg, Geneva, Paris, Toulouse,
Lyons, and other cities, their two hundred?
A few of these trials may be cited, taking them
in the order of priority, as they occurred in dif-
ferent parts of the Continent. In 1595 an old
woman residing in a village near Constance, angry
at not being invited to share the sports of the
country people on a day of public rejoicing~ was
heard to mutter something to herself, and was after-
j I \ I
2'ZO THE WITCH MANIA.
wards seen to proceed through the fields towards a
hill, where she was lost sight of. A violent thunder-
storm arose about two hours afterwards, which wet
the dancers to the skin, and did considerable dam-
age to the plantations. This woman, suspected be-
fore of witchcraft, was seized and imprisoned, and
accused of having raised the storm, by filling a
hole with wine~ and stirring it about with a stick.
She was tortured till she confessed, and was bnrned
alive the next evening.
About the same time two sorcerers in Toulouse
were accused of having dragged a crucifix about the
streets at midnight, stopping at times to spit upon
and kick it, and uttering at intervals an exorcism
to raise the deviL The next day a hail-storm did
considerable damage to the crops, and a girl, the
daughter of a shoemaker in the town, remembered
to have beard in the night the execrations of the
wizards. .Her story led to their arrest. The usual
means to produce confession were resorted to. The
wizards owned that they could raise tempests when-
ever they pleased, and named several persons who
possessed similar powers. They were ha.aged, and
then burned in the market-place, and seven of the
persons they had mentioned shared.the same fate.
. Hoppo and Stadlin, two noted wizards of Ger-
many, were executed: in 15.99. They implicated
twenty or thirty witches, who went about causing
women to miscarry, bringing down the lightning of
heaven, and making maidens bl'ing forth toads. To
THE WITCH MANIA. 271
this latter fact several girls were found to swear
most positively! StadJin confessed that he had
killed seven infants in the womb of one woman.
Bodinus highly praises the exertions of a witch-
finder, named Nider, in France, who prosecuted so
many that he could not calculate them. Some of
these witches could, by a single word, cause people
to fall down dead; others made women go with_
child three years instead of nine months ; while
others, by certain invocations and ceremonies, could
turn the faces of their enemies upside down, or,
twist them round to their backs. Although no
witness was ever procured who saw persons in this
horrible state; the witches c.onfessed .that tl1ey had
the power, and exercised it. Nothing more was
wanting to insure the stake.
At Amsterdam a crazy girl confessed that she
could cause sterility in cattle, and bewitch pigs
and poultry by merely repeating the magic words
Turiw und Shurius Inturius ! She was banged and
burned. Another woman in the same city, named
Kornelis Van Purmerund, was arrested in conse4
quence of some disclosures the former had made.
A witness came forward and swore that she one
day looked through the window of her but, and
saw Kornelis sitting before a fite muttering some-
thing to the devil. She was sure it was to the
devil, because she heard him answer her. Shortly
afterwards twelve black cats ascended out of the
floor, and daneed. on their hind legs around the
272 THE WITCH MANIA.
witch for the space of about half an hour. They
then vanished with a horrid noise, and leaving a
disagreeable smell behind them. She also was
hanged and burned.
At Bamberg~ in Bavaria, the executions from the
year 1610 to 1640 were at the rate of about a
hundred annually. One woman, suspected ofwitch..
craft, was seized because, having immoderately
praised the beauty of a child, it had shortly after-
wards fallen ill and died. She confessed upon· the
rack that the devil had given her the power to
work evil upon those she hated, by speaking words
in their praise. If' she said with unwonted fervour,
cc What a strong man!', u What a lovely woman!"
'' What a sweei child!,. the devil understood her,
and afBicted them with diseases immediately. ~t
i,s quite unnecess'ary to state the end of this poor
creature. Many women were executed for causing
strange substances to lodge in the bodies of those
who offended them. Bits of wood, nails, hair, egg-
shells: bits of glass, shreds of linen and woollen
cloth, pebbles, and even hot cinders and knives,
were the articles generally chosen. These were
believed to remain in the body till the witches con-
fessed or were executed, when they were voided
from the bowels, or by the mouth, nostrils, or ears.
Modern physicians have often had cases of a simi-
lar description under their care, where girls have
swallowed needles, which have been voided on the
arms, legs, and other parts of the body. But·the,
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANIA. 273
science of that day could not account for these
phenomena otherwise than by the power of the
devil ; and every needle swallowed by a seTvant
maid cost an old woman her life. Nay, if no more
than one suffered in consequence, the district might
think itself fortunate. The commissioners seldom
stopped short at one victim. The revelations of
the rack in most cases implicated half a score.
Of all the records of the witch-trials preserved
for the wonder of succeeding ages, that of Wi.irz-
burg, from 1627 to 1629, is the most frightful.~
Hauber, who bas preserved this list in his "Acta
et Scripta Magica," says, in a note at. the end,
that it is far from complete, and that there were a
great m~ny other burnings too numerous to specify.
This record, which relates to the city only, and
not to the province of Wi.irzburg, contains the
names of one hundred and fifty-seven persons, who
were burned in two years in twenty-nine burnings,
averaging from five to six at a time. The list
comprises three play-actors, four innkeepers, three
common councilmen of Wi.irzburg, fourteen vicars
of the cathedral, the burgomaster's lady, an apo-
thecary's wife and daughter, two choristers of the
cathedral, Gobel BabeJin the prettiest girl in the
town, and the wife, the two little sons, and the
daughter of the oonncillor Stolzenberg. Rich and
poor, yonng and old, suffered alike. At the seventh
ofthese recorded burnings, the victims are described
as a wanderiQg boy, twelve years of age, and four
VOL. II. T
THE WITCH MANIA.
strange men and women, .found sleeping in the
market-place. Thirty-two of the whole number
appear to have been vagrants, of both sexes, whoy
failing to give a satisfactory account of themselves,
were accused and found guilty of witchcraft. The
number of children on the list is horrible to think
upon. The thirteenth and fourteenth burnings
comprised. four persons, who are stated to have
been a little maiden nine years of age, a maiden
still less, her sister, their mother, and their aunt,
a pretty young woman of twenty-four. At the
eighteenth burning the victims were two boys of
twelve, and a girl of fifteen; at the nineteenth, the
young heir of the noble house of Rotenhahn, aged
nine, and two other boys, one aged ten, and the
other twelve. Among other entries appear the
names ·of Baunach, the fattest, and Steinacher, the
richest burgher in Wtirzburg. What tended to
keep up the delusion in this unhappy city, and
indeed aU over Europe, was the number of hypo-
chondriac and diseased persons who came volun-
tarily forward, and made confession of witchcraft.
Several of the victims in the foregoing list, had only
themselves to blame for their fate. Many again~
including the apothecary's wife and daughter al-
ready mentioned, pretended to sorcery, and sold
poisons, or attempted by means of charms and in~
cantations to raise the devil. But throughout aU
this fearful period the delusion of the criminals was
as great as that of the judges. Depraved persons
THE WITCH MANU.
who, in ordinary times, would have been thieves
or murderers, added the desire of sorcery to their
depravity, sometimes with the hope of acquiring
power over their fellows, and sometimes with the
hope of securing impunity in this world by the pro.
tection of Satan. One.of the persons executed at
the first burning, a prostitute, was heard repeating
the exorcism, which was supposed to have the'
power of raising the arch enemy in the form of a
goat. This precious specimen of human folly has
been preserved by Horst, in his 11
Zauberbibliothek."
It ran as follows, and wa.
s to be repeated slowly,
with many ceremonies and waivings of the hand:-
u Lalle, Bachera, Magotte, Baphia, Dajam,
Vagoth Heneche Ammi Nagaz, Adomator
Raphael Immanuel Ohristus, Tetragrammaton
Agra Jod Loi. Konig I Konig I"
The two last words were uttered quickly, and with
a sol't of scream, and were supposed to be highly
agreeable to Satan, who loved to be called a king.
If he did not appear immediately, it was necessary
to repeat a further exorcism. The one in greatest
repute was as follows, and was to be read back-
wards, with the exception ofthe last two words :-
« Anion, LaUe, Sabolos, Sado, Pater, Aziel
Adonai Sado Vagoth Agra, Jod,
Baphra I Komm I Komm !"
When the witch wanted to get rid ofthe devil, who
was sometimes in the habit of prolonging his visits
T~
•
'
276 THE WITCH MANIA.
to an unconscionable length, she had only to re-
peat the following, also backwards, when he gene-
rally disappeared, leaving behind him a suffocating
smell:-
" Zellianelle Heotti Bonua Vagotha
Plisoa sother oaech unicua Beelzebub
Dax I Komm! Komm !"
This·nonsensical jargon soon became known to all
the idle and foolish boys of Germany. Many an
unhappy urchin, who in a youthful frolic had re-
peated it, paid for his folly the penalty of his life.
Three, whose ages varied from ten to fifteen, were
burned alive at Wiirzburg for no other offence.
Of course every other boy in the city became still
more convinced of the power of the charm. One
boy confessed that he would willingly have sold
himself to the devil, if he could have raised him,
for a good dinner and cakes .every day of his life,
and a pony to ride upon. This luxurious youn6'"
ster, instead of being horsewhipped for his folly,
was hanged and burned.
The small district of Lindheim was, if possible,
even more notorious than Wiirzburg for the num-
ber of its witch-burnings. In the year 1683 a
famous witch, named Pomp Anna, who could cause
her foes to fall sick by merely looking at them, was
discovered and burned, along with three of her
companions. Every year in this parish, consisting
at most of a thousand persons, the average number
of executions was five. Between the years 1660
THE WITCH MANIA. 277
and 1664, the number consumed was thirty. If the
executions all over Germany had been in this fright-
ful proportion, hardly a family could have ·escaped
losing one of its members.
In 1627 a ballad entitled the " Druten Zeitung,"
or the " Witches Gazette," was very popular in
Germany. It detailed, according to the titlepage
of a copy printed at Smalcald in 1627, "an ac-
count of the remarkable events which took place in
Franconia, Bamberg, and Wiirzburg, with those
wretches who from avarice or ambition have sold
themselves to the devil, and how they had their
reward at last: set to music, and to be sung to the
tune of Dorothea." The sufferings of the witches
at the stake are exp.lained in it with grea.t minute-
ness, the poet waxing extremely witty when he
describes the horrible,contortions of pain upon their
countenances, and the shrieks that rent the air when
any one of more than common guilt was burned
alive. A trick resorted to in order to force one
witch to confess, is told in this dogg.rel as an ex-
cellent joke. As she obstinately refused to own
that she was in league with the powers of evil, .the
commissioners suggested that the hangman should
dress himself in a bear's skin, with the horns, tail,
and all the et ceteras, and in this form }?Cnetrate
into her dungeon. The woman, in the darkness
of her cell, could not detect the imposture, aided
as it was by her own superstitious feara. She
thought she was actually in the presence of the
!'78 THE WITCH MANIA.
prince of hell ; and when she was told to keep up
her courage, and that she should be relieved from
th-e power.of her enemies, she fell on her knees be-
fore the supposed devil, and swore to dedicate her-
self hereafter body and soul to his serv~ce. Ger-
many is, perhaps, the only country in Europe where
the delusion was so great as to have made such
detestable verses as these the favourites of the
people:-
" Man shickt ein Henkenknecht
Zu ihr in Gefangnisa n'unter,
Den man bat kleidet recht,,
Mit einer Bamhaute,
Als wenns der Teufe1 war;
Ala ihm die Drut anscbaute
Meints ihr Buhl knm daher.
., Sie aprach zu i.hm behende,
Wie lliut du mich so lang
In der Obrigkeit Hii.nde 1
· Hilfmir aus ihren Zwang,
Wie du mir hast verheissen,
Ich bin ja eben dein,
Thu mich aus der Angst entreissen
0 liebster Buhle mein !"•
This rare poet adds, that in making such an ap-
• They sent a hangman's assistant down to her in her prison;
they clothed him properly in a bear's akin, as ifhe were the devil.
IIim, when the witch saw, she thought he was her familiar. She
said to him quickly, u Why hast thou left me so long in the magis--
trate's hands1 Help me out of their power, as thou hast pro-
mised, and I will be thine alone. Help 'me from this anguish, 0
thou dearest·devil [or ]over], mine !"
( I I )o I
THE WITCH MANIA. 279
peal to the hangman, the witch never imagined the
roast that was to be made of her, and puts in, by
way of parenthesis, ~' was not that fine fun !" "Was
das war fiir ein Spiel! " As feathers thrown into
the air show how the wind blows, so this trumpery
ballad serves to show the current of popular feeling
at the time of its composition.
All readers of history are familiar with the cele·
brated trial of the Marechale d'Ancre, who was
executed in .Paris in the year 1617. Although
witchcraft was one of the accusations brought
against her, the real crime for which she suifered
was her ascendency over the mind of Mary of
Medicis, and the consequent influence she exercised
indirectly over the unworthy King, Louis XIII.
Her coachman gave evidence that she bad sacri.
ficed a cock at midnight, in one of the churches,
and others swore they had seen her go secretly into
the house of a noted witch, named Isabella. When
asked by what means she had acquired so·extraor-
dinary an influence over the mind of the Queen
Mother, she replied boldly, that she exercised no
other power over her, than that which a strong
mind can always exercise over the weak. She died
with great firmness.
In two years afterwards scenes far more horrible
than any that had yet taken place in France were
enacted at Labourt, at the foot of the Pyrenees.
The Parliament of Bourdeaux, scandalised at the
number of witches who were said to infest Labourt
j 1 ' I
~80 THE WITCH MANIA.
and its neighbourhood, deputed one of its own
members, the noted Pierre de l'Ancre, and its
President, Espaigne1, to inquire into the matter,
with full powers to punish the ofFenders. They
arrived at Labourt in May 1619. De l'Ancrewrote
a boolt, setting forth an his great deeds, in this
battle against the powers of evil. It is full of ob-
scenity and absurdity ; but the facts may be relied
on as far as they relate to the number of trials and
executions, and the strange confessions which tor-
ture forced from the unhappy criminals.
De l'Ancre states as a reason why so many
witches were to be found at Labourt, that the
country was mountainous and sterile ! He dis-
( covered many ofthem from their partiality to smok-
( ing tobacco. It may be inferred from this, that he
was of the opinion of King James, that tobacco was
the "devil's weed." When the commission first sat,
the number of persons brought to trial was about
forty a day. The acquittals did not average so
many as five per cent. AU the witches confessed
that they had been present at the great Domdaniel,
or Sabbath. At these saturnalia the devil sat
upon a large gilded throne, sometimes in the form
of a goat; sometimes as a gentleman, dressed all
in black, with boots, spurs, and sword; and very
often as a shapeless mass, resembling the trunk of
a blasted tree, seen indistinctly amid the darkness.
They generally proceeded to the Domdaniel, riding
on spits, pitcl1forks, or broomsticks, and, on their
TUE WITCH MANIA. 281
arrival, indu1ged with the fiends in every species of
debauchery. Upon one occasion they had had the
audacity to celebrate this festival in the very heart
of the city of Bourdeaux. The throne of the arch
fiend was placed in the middle of the Place de Gal-
Jienne, and the whole space was covered with the
multitude of witches and wizards, who flocked to it
from far and near ; some arriving even from distant
Scotland.
After two hundred poor wretches had been hanged
and burned, there seemed no diminution in the
number of criminals to be tried. Many of the lat-
ter were asked upon the rack what Satan had said,
when he found that the commissioners were pro-
ceeding with such severity ? The general reply
was, that he did not seem to care much about it.
Some of them asserted, that they had boldly re-
proached him for suffering the execution of their
friends, saying, u Out upon thee, false fiend! thy
promise was, that they allould not die ! Look ! how
thou hast kept thy word! Tltey have been hurtzed,
ond at•e a heap of ashes!" Upon these occasions
he was never offended. He would give orders that
the spoTts of the Domdo.niel should cease, and pro-
ducing illusory fires that did not butn, he encou-
raged them to walk through, assuring them that
the fires lighted by the executioner gave no more
pain than those. They would then ask him, where
their friends were, since they had not suffered ; to
which the "Father of Lies" invariably replied, that
THE WITCH MANIA•.
they were happy in a far country, and could see and
hear all that was then passing; and that, if they
called by name those they wished to converse with,
they might hear their voices in reply. Satan then
imitated the voices of the defunct witches so suc-
cessfully, that they were all deceived. Having an-
swered all objections, the orgies recommenced, and
lasted till the cock crew.
De l'Ancre was also very zealous in the trial of
unhappy monomaniacs for the crime of lycanthropy.
Several who were arrested confessed, without being
tortured, that they were weir-wolves, and that, at
night, they rushed out among the flocks and herds,
killing and devouring. One young man at Besan-
c;:on, with the fuU consciousness of the awful fate
that awaited him, voluntarily gave himself up to
the commissioner. Espaignel, and confessed that he
was the servant of a strong fiend, who was known
by the na~e of" Lord of the Forests." By his
power, be was transformed into the likeness of a
wolf. The" Lord of the Forests" assumed the same
shape, but was much larger, fiercer, and stronger.
They prowled about the pastures together at mid-
night, strangling the watch-dogs that defended the
folds, and killing more sheep than they could de-
vour. He felt, be said, a fierce pleasure in these
excursions, and howled in e)tcess of joy as he tore
with his fangs the warm flesh of the sheep asunder.
This youth was not alone in this horrid confession ;
many others voluntarily owned that they were
j 1 ' I
'l'HE WITCH MANIA. 288
weir-wolves, and many more were forced 'by torture
to make the same avowal. Such criminals were
thought to be too atrocious to be hanged first,
and then burned : they were generally sentenced
to be burned alive, and their ashes to be scattered
to the winds. Grave and learned doctors ofdivinity
openly sustained the possibility of these transfor-
mations, relying mainly upon the history of Nebu-
chadnezzar. They could not imagine why, if be
nad been an ox, modern men could not become
wolves, by Divine permission and the power of the
devil. They also contended that, if men should
confess, it was evidence enough, if there bad been
no other. Delrio mentions that one gentleman
accused of lycanthropy was put to the torture no
less than twenty times, but still he would not con-
fess. An intoxicating draught was then given him,
and under its influence he confessed that he was
a wtir·wolf. Delrio cites this to show the extreme
equity of the commissioners. They never burned
anybody till he confessed; and if one course of
torture would not suffice, their patience was not
exhausted, and they tried him again and again,
even to the twentieth time ! Well may we ex-
claim, when such atrocities have been committed
in the name of religion,
tr Quellion, quel tigre egale en cruaute,
Une injuste fureur qu'anne la piete 1"
The trial of the unhappy Urbain Grandier, the
284 THE WITCH MANIA.
curate of Loudon, for bewitching a number of girls
in the convent of the Ursnlines in tbat town, was,
like that of the Marechale d'Ancre, an accusation
resorted to by his enemies to ruin one against whom
no other charge ~ould be brought so readily. This
noted affair, which kept France in commotion for
months, and the true character of wbich was known
even at that time, merits no more than a passing
notice in this place. It did not spring from the
epidemic dread of sorcery then so prevalent, but
was carried on by wretched intriguers, who had
sworn to have the life of their foe. Such a charge
could not be refuted in 16S4: the accused could
not, as Bodinos expresses it, u make the malice
of the prosecutors more clear than the sun ;" and
his own denial, however intelligible, honest, and
straightforward, was held as nothing in refutation
of the testimony of the crazy women who imagined
themselves bewitched. The more absurd and con-
tradictory their assertions, the stronger the argu-
ment employed by his enemies that the devil was
in them. He wa.
s burned alive, under circum-
stances ofgreat cruelty.•
• A very graphi«; account of the execution of this unfortunate
gentleman ia to be found in the excellent romance of M. Alfred de
Vigny, entitled « Cinq Mars ;• but if the reader wishes for a full
and accurate detail of all the circumstances of one of the moat
extraordinary trials upon record, he is referred to a work published
anonymously, at Amsterdam, in 1698, entitle<;« Histoire des Dia-
bles de Loudun, ou de Ia,Possession des ReligieUBeB Uraulines, et de
Ia Condemnation et du Supplice d'Urbain Grandier."
'rUE WITCH MANIA. 285
A singular instance of the epidemic fear of witch-
craft occurred at Lille, in 1689. A pious, but not
very sane lady, named Antoinette Bourignon, found-
ed a school, or hospice, in that city. One day, on
entering the school-room, she imagined that she
saw a great number of little black angels Hying
about the heads of the children. In great alarm,
she told her pupils of what she had seen, warn-
ing them to beware of the devil, whose imps were
hovering about them. The foolish woman con-
tinued daily to repeat the same story, and Satan
and his power became the only subject of conver-
sation, not only between the girls themselves, but
between them and their instructors. One of them
at this time ran away from the_ school. On being
brought back and interrogated, she said she had
not run away, but had been carried away by the
devil - she was a witch, and had been one since
the age of seven. Some other little girls in the
school went into fits at this announcement, and,
on their recovery, confessed that they also were
witches. At last, the whole of them, to the num-
ber of fifty, worked upon each other's imaginations
to such 8 degree that they also confessed that they
were witches-that they attended the Domdaniel,
or meeting of the fiends- that they could ride
through the air on broom-sticks, feast on infants'
flesh, or creep through 8 key-hole.
The citizens of Lille were astounded at these
disclosures. The clergy hastened to investigate
286 TllE WITCH MANJA.
the matter; many of them, to their credit, openly
expressed their opinion that the whole affair was
an imposture: not so the majority- they strenu~
ously insisted that the confessions of the children
were valid, and that it was necessary to make an
example by burning them all for witches. The
poor parents, alarmed for their offspring, implored
the examining Capuchins with tears in their eyes
to save their young lives, insisting that they were
bewitched, and not bewitching. This opinion also
gained ground in the town. Antoinette Bourig-
non, who had put these absurd notions into the
heads of the children, was accused of witchcraft,
an'd examined before the council. The circum.
stances of the case seemed so unfavourable towards
her that she would not stay for a second exami•
nation. Disguising herself as she best could, she
hastened out of Lille and escaped pursuit. If she
bad remained. four hours longer, she would have
been burned by judicial sentence, as a witch and
a heretic. It is to be hoped that, wherever she
went, she learned the danger of tampering with
youthful minds, and was never again entrusted
with the management ofchildren.
The Duke of Brunswick and the Elector of Menz
were struck with the great cruelty exercised in the
torture of suspected persons, and convinced at the
same time that no righteous judge would consider
a confession extorted by pain, and contradictory
in itself, as sufficient evidence to justify the exe-
( I I )o I
THE WITCH MANIA. 287
cution of any accused person. It is related of the
Duke of Brunswick that he invited two learned
Jesuits to his house, who were known to entertain
strong opinions upon the subject of witchcraft,
with a view of showing them the cruelty and ab-
surdity of such practises. A woman lay in the
dungeon of the city accused of witchcraft, and the
Duke, having given previous instructions to the
officiating torturers, went with the two Jesuits to
hear her confession. By a series of artful leading
questions, the poor creature, in the extremity of
her anguish, was induced to confess that she had
often attended the sabbath of the fiends upon the
Brocken - that she had seen two Jesuits there,
who had made themselves notorious, even among
witches, for their abominations-that she had seen
them assume the form of goats, wolves, and other
animals ; and that many noted witches had borne
them five, six, and seven children at a birth, who
had heads like toads and legs like spiders. Being
asked if the Jesuits were far from her, she replied
that they were in the room beside her. The Duke
of Brunswick led his astounded friends away, and
explainedthe stratagem. This was convincing proof
to both of them that thousands of persons had suf-
fered unjustly; they knew their own innocence,
and shuddered to think what their .fate might have
been, if an enemy, instead of a friend, had put such
a confession into the mouth of a criminal. One of
these Jesuits was Frederick Spee, the author of
j 1 ' I
288 THE WITCH MANIA.
the " Cautio Criminalis," published in 1681. This
work, exposing the horrors of the witch trials,
had a most salutary effect in Germany: Schon-
brunn, Archbishop and Elector of Menz, abolished
the torture entirely within his dominions, and his
example was imitated by the Duke of Brunswick
and other potentates. The number of supposed
witches immediately diminished, ~nd the violence
of the mania began to subside. The Elector of
Brandenburg issued a rescript, in 1654, with re-
spect to the case of Anna of Ellerbrock, a sup-
posed witch, forbidding the use · of torture, and
stigmatizing the swimming of witches as an un-
just, cruel, and deceitful test.
This was the beginning of the dawn a(ter the
long-protracted darkness. The tribunals no longer
condemned witches to execution by hundreds in
a year. Wiirzburg, the grand theatre of the burn-
ings, burned but one, where, forty years previously,
it bad burned three score. From 1660 to 1670,
the electoral chambers in all parts of Germany
constantly commuted the sentence of death passed
by the provincial tribunals into imprisonment for
life, or burning on the cheek.
A truer philosophy had gradually disabused the
public mind. Learned men freed themselves from
the trammels of a debasing superstition, and go-
vernments, both civil and ecclesiastical, repressed
the popular delusion they bad so long encouraged.
The Parliament of Normandy condemned a number
TUE WITCH MANIA. 289
of women to death, in the year 1670, on the old
charge of riding on broomsticks to the Domdaniel;
but Louis XIV. commuted the sentence into ban-
ishment for life. The Parliament remonstrated,
and sent the King the following remarkable re-
quest. The reader will, perhaps, be glad to see
this document at length. It is of importance, as
the last effort of a legislative assembly to uphold
this great error ; and the arguments they used, and
the instances they quoted, are in the highest degree
curious. It reflects honour upoii the memory of
Louis XIV. that he was not swayed by it.
•, REQUEST Oil' THE PARLIAMENT OF ROUEN TO THE
lUNG, IN 1670.
" StRE,
" EMBOLDENED by the authority which your
Majesty has committed into our hands in the pro-
vince of Normandy, to try and punish offences, and
more particularly those offences of the nature of
witchcraft, which tend to the destruction of religion
and the ruin of nations, we, your Parliament, remon-
strate humbly with your Majesty upon certain cases
of this kind which have been lately brought before
us. We cannot permit the letter addressed by your
Majesty's command to the Attorney-General of this
district, for the reprieve of certain persons con-
demned to death for witchcraft., and for the staying
of procee.dings in several other cases, to remain
unnoticed, and without remarking upon the conse..
VOL, U. u
290 THE WITCH MANIA.
quences which may ensue. There is also a letter
from your Secretary of State, declaring your Ma-
jesty's intention to commute the punishment of
these criminals into one of perpetual banishment,
and to submit to the opinion of the Procureur-Ge-
neral, and of the most learned members of the Par-
liament of Paris, whether, in the matter of witch-
craft, the jurisprudence of the Parliament of Rouen
is to be followed in preference to that of the Par-
liament of Paris, and of the ether parliaments of
the kingdom which judge differently.
u Although by the ordinances of the Kings your
predecessors, Parliaments have been forbidden to
pay any attention to lettres de cachet,· we, never-
theless, from the knowledge which we have, in
common with the whole kingdom, of the care be-
stowed by your Majesty for the good of your sub-
jects, and from the submission and obedience to
your commandments which we have always mani-
fested, have stayed all proceedings, in conformity
to your orders ; hoping that your Majesty, con-
sidering the importance of the crime of witchcraft,
and the consequences likely to ensue from ita im-
punity, will be graciously pleased to grant us once
more your permissioa to continue the trials, and
execute judgment upon those found guilty. And
as, since we received the letter of your Secretar.y of
State, we have also been made acquainted with.th.e
determination of your Majesty, not .only to com..
mute the sentence of death passed upon tlleae
THE WITCH MANIA. 291
Witche~ into OQ,e of perpetual b~nishment fr9m the
province, but to re..establish them in the possession
of their goods and chattels, and of their good fame
and character, your Parliament have thought it
their duty, on occasion of these crimes, the greatest
which men can commit, to make you acquainted
with the general apd uniform feelings of the peopl~
of this province with regard to them ; it being,
moreover, a que&tion in which are concerned th~
glory of God and the relief of your s.uffering sub-
jects, who groan under their fears from the threats
and menaces of this sort of persons, and who f~el
the effects of theQl every day in the mortal and
e"tFAQrdinary m&ladiQs which attack them, ~n4
the surpr~ing da~ge ~nd .loss of t~eir po~s­
fil6D.8.
" YO\lr Majesty knows well that there is no crime
eo opposed to the command!i of God as witchcraft.
which destroys the very foundation of religion, and
draws strange abominations af~r it. It is for this
.-eaJiQn, Sire, that the Scriptures pronounce the
punishment of death against ~~nders, and that the
chure~ and the holy fat,lu~rs have fulminated their
.&Jlathem.~, end that cano,nical decisio~ h11ve one
and all decreed the most severe punisbmeqts, to ~­
~ ti'Pm. this crime·; .and that the Church of France,
AB,UJU~~d br the piety of ~ Kioga yp~r pred~ces­
fi~rt, hM ~xpr~sed so g,:ePtt .IJ. horro~ at it, ~lult, not
jp4ging the punishm~t of perpe~ual )J.Dpr,sonmenh
tbe- lligbe4t it h~ the pew~r t~ in~c~, .suft.icien~ly
u2
j 1 ' I
TliE WITCtl MANIA.
severe, it has left such criminals to be dealt with by
the secular power.
u It has been the general feeling of all nations
that such criminals ought to be condemned to death,
and all the ancients were of the same opinion. The
law of the u Twelve Tables/' which was the prin-
cipal of the Roman laws, ordains the same punish-
ment. AU jurisconsults agreed in it, as well as the
constitutions of the Emperors, and more especially
those of Constantine and Theodosius, who, en-
lightened by the Gospel, not only renewed the same
punishment, but also deprived, expressly, all persons
found guilty of witchcraft of the right of appeal,
and declared them to be unworthy of a prince's
mercy. And Charles VIII, Sire, inspired by the
same sentiments, passed that beautiful and severe
ordinance (cette belle et sev~re ordonnance), which
enjoined the judges to punish witches according to
the exigencies of the case, under a penalty of being
themselves fined or imprisoned, or dismissed from
their office ; and decreed, at the same time, that all
persons who refused to denounce a witch, should be
punished as accomplices; and that all, on the con-
trary, who gave evidence against one, should be
rewarded.
·~ From these considerations, Sire, and in the ex-
ecution of so holy an ordinance, your parliaments,
by their decrees, proportion their punishments to
the guilt of the offenders : and your Parliament of
Nonnandy has never, until the present time:. found
II 1 I
THE WITCH MANIA, !98
that its practice was different from that of other
courts ; for all the books which treat upon this
matter cite an infinite number of decrees con-
demning witches to be burnt, or broken on the
wheel, or to other punishments. The following are
examples :-In the time ofChilperic, as may be seen
in Gregory of Tours, b. vi, c. 85 of his History of
France: all the decrees of the Parliament of Paris
passed according to, and in conformity with, this
ancient jurisprudence of the kingdom, cited by
Imbert, in his r~ Judicial Practice;" all those cited
by Monstrelet, in 1459, against the witches of Ar-
tois ; the decrees of the same Parliament, of the
18th ofOctober 1578, against Mary Le Fief, native
of Saumur ; of the 21st of October 1596, against
the Sieur de Beaumont, who pleaded, in his de-
fence, that he had only sought the aid of the devil
for the purpose of unbewitching the afflicted and of
curing diseases; of ~he 4th of July 1606, against
Francis du Bose; of the 20th of July 1582, against
Abel de Ia Rue, native of Coulommiers; of the
2nd of October 1598, against Rousseau and his
daughter; of 1608, against another Rousseau and
one Peley, for witchcraft and adoration of the devil
at the Sabbath, under the figure of a he-goat, as
confessed by them; the decree of 4th of February
1615, against Leclerc, who appealed from the sen-
tence of the Parliament of Orleans, and who was
condemned for having attended the Sabbatl1, and
confessed, as well as two of his accomplices, who
j 1 ' I
THE WITCH MANIA.
died in prison, that he had adored the devil, re-
nounced hls baptism and his faith in God, danced
the witches' dance, and oifered up unholy sacrifices;
the decrees of the 6th of May 1616, against a man
named Leger, on a similar accusation; the pardon
granted by Charles IX to Trois Ecbelles, upon con-
dition ofrevealing his accomplices, but afterwards
revoked for renewed sorcery on his part ; the de-
ctee of the Parliament of Paris, cited by Momac
in 1595 ; the judgments passed in consequence of
the commission given by Henry IV to the Sieur de
Lancre, councillor of the Parliament ofBourdeaux ;
of the !Oth of March 1619, against Etienne Audi-
bert; those passed by the Chamber of Nerac, on
the !6th of June 1620, against several witches ;
those passed by the Parliament of Toulouse in
1577, as cited by Gregory Tolosanus, against four
hundred persons accused of this crime, and who
were all marked with the sign of the deviL Be-
sides all these, we might recall to your Majesty's
recollection the various decrees of the Parliament
of Provence, especially in the case of Gaufredy
in 1611 ; the decrees of the Parliament of Dijon,
and those of the Parliament of Rennes, following
the example of the condemnation of the Marshal
de Rays, who was burned in 1441, for the crime
of witchcraft, in presence of the Duke of Brittany;
-all these examples, Sire, prove that the accusa-
tion of witchcraft has always been punished with
THE WITCH MANIA. 295
death by the Parliaments of your kingdom, and
justify the uniformity of their practice.
u These, Sire, are the motives upon which your
Parliament of Normandy bas acted in decreeing
the punishment of death against the persons lately
brought before it for this crime. If it has hap-
pened that., on any occasion, these parliaments,
and the Parliament of Normandy among the rest,
have condemned the guilty to a less punishment
than that of death, it was for the reason that their
guilt was not of the deepest dye; your Majesty,
~md the Kings your predecessors, having left full
liberty to the various tribunals to whom they de-
. legated the administration of justice, to decree
such punishment as was wan·anted by the evidence
brought before them.
" Mter so many authorities, and punishments
ordained by human and divine Jaws, we humbly
supplicate your Majesty to reflect once more upon
the extraordinary results which proceed. from the
malevolence of this sort of people- on the deaths
from unknown diseases, which are often the con-
l!equences of their menaces- on the loss of the
goods and chattels of your subjects- on the proofs
of guilt continually afforded by the insensibility of
the marks upon the accused-on the sudden trans-
portation of bodies from one place to another-
on the sacrifices and nocturnal assemblies, and
other facts, · corroborated by the testimony of an.
THE WITCH MANIA.
cient and modern authors, and verified by so many
eye-witnesses, composed partly of accomplices, and
partly of people who had no interest in the trials
beyond the love of truth, and confirmed, more-
over, by the confessions of the accused parties
themselves; and that, Sire, with so much agree-
ment and co~formity between the different cases,
that the most ignorant persons convicted of this
crime have spoken to the same circumstances, and
in nearly the same words, as the most celebrated
authors who have written about it, all of which
may be easily proved to your Majesty's satisfaction
by the records of various trials before your par-
liaments.
u Theee, Sire, are truths so intimately bound up
with the principles of our religion, that, extraor-
dinary although they be, no person has been able
to this time to call them in question. If some
have cited, in opposition to these truths, the pre-
tended canon of the Council of Ancyre, and a pas-
sage from St. Augustin, in a treatise upon the
• Spirit and the Soul,' it has been without founda-
tion ; and it would be easy to convince your Ma-
jesty that neither the one nor the other ought to
be accounted of any authority; and, besides that,
the canon, in this sense, would be contrary to the
opinion of a11 succeeding councils of the church,
Cardinal Baronius, and all learned commentators,
agree that it is not to be found in any old edition.
In effect, in those editions wherein it is found, it is
THE WITCH MANIA. .297
in another language, and is in direct contradiction
to the twenty-third canon of the same council,
which condemns sorcery, according to all preceding
constitutions. Even supposing that this canon was
really promulgated by the Council of Ancyre, we
must observe that it was issued in tl1e second cen-
tury, when the principal attention of the Church
was directed to the destruction of paganism. For
this reason, it condemns that class of women who
said they could pass through the air, and over
immense regions, with Diana and Herodias, and
enjoins au· preachers to teach the falsehood of
such an opinion, in order to deter people from
the worship of these false divinities ; but it does
not question the power of the devil over the human
body, which is, in fact, proved by the Holy Gospel
of Jesus Christ himself. And with regard, Sire, to
the pretended passage of St. Augustin, everybody
knows that it was not written by him, because th~
writer, whoever he was, cites Bretius, who died
more than eighty years after the time of St. Au-
gustin. Besides, there is still more convincing
proof in the .fact, that the same father establishes
the truth of witchcraft in all his writings,.and more
particularly in his ' City of God ;• and in his first
volume, question the 25th, wherein lie states that
sorcery is a communion between man and the devil,
which all good Christians ought to look upon with
horror.
u Taking all these things into consideration,.
(.1 I I
!98 THE WITCH llriAIUA.
Sire, the officers of your Parliament hope, &oni
the ju.stice of your Majesty, that you will be gra-
ciously pleased to receive the humble remonstrances
they have taken the liberty to make. They are
compelled, for the acquittal of their own con..
sciences and in discharge of their duty, to make
known to your Majesty, that the decrees they
passed against the sorcerers and witches brought
before them, were passed after a mature delibera-
tion on the part of all the judges present, and
that nothing has been done therein which is not
conformable to the universal jurisprudence of the
kingdom, and for the general welfare of your Ma-
jesty's subjects, of whom there is not one who can
say that be is secure from the malevolence of such
criminals. We therefore supplicate your Majesty
to suffer us to carry into effect the sentences we
passed, and to proceed with the trial of the other
persons accused of the same crime ; and that the
piety of your Majesty will not suffer to be intro-
duced during your reign an opinion contrary to the
principles of that holy religion for which you have
always employed so gloriously both your cares and
your arms."
Louis, as we have already mentioned, paid no
attention to this appeal. The lives of the old wo-
men were spared, and prosecutions for mere witch-
craft, unconnected with other offences, were dis-
continued throughout France. In 1680 an act was
j 1 ' I
THE WlTCH MANIA. 899
passed for the punishment, not of witches, but of
pretenders to witchcraft, fortune-tellers, dinneress-.
es, and poisoners.
Thus the light broke in upon Germany, France,
England, and Scotland about the same time, gra.
dually growing clearer and clearer till the middle
of the eighteenth century, when witchcraft was
finally .reckoned amongst exploded doctrines, and
the belief in it confined to the uttermost vulgar.
Twice, however, did the madness burst forth again
as furious, while it lasted, as ever it had been.
The first time in Sweden, in 1669, and the second
in Germany, so late as 1749. Both these instances
merit particular mention. The first is one of the
most extraordinary upon record, and for atrocity
and absurdity is unsurpassed in the annals of any
nation.
It having been reported to the King of Sweden
that the little village of Mohra, in the province of
·nalecarlia, was troubled exceedingly with witches,
he appointed a commission of clergy and laymen
to trace the rumour to its source, with full powers
to punish the guilty. On the 12th ofAugust 1669,
the commissioners arrived in the bewitched village,
to the great joy of the credulous inhabitants. On
the following day the whole population, amounting
to three thousand persons, assembled in the church.
A sermon was preached, ~~ declaring the miserable -
case of those people that suffered themselves to be
deluded by the devil," and fervent prayer was
l I I )o I
800 THE WITCH MANIA.
offered up that God would remove the scourge
from among them.
The whole assembly then adjourned to the rec-
tor's house, fiJling all the street before it, when the
King's commission was read, charging every person
who knew anything of the witchery, to come for-
ward and declare the truth. A passion of tears
seized upon the multitude ; men, women, and chil-
dren began to weep and sob, and all promised to
divulge what they had heard or knew. In this
frame of mind they were dismissed to their homes.
On the·following day they were again called to-
gether, when the depositions of several persons
were taken publicly before them all. The result
was that seventy persons, including fifteen chil-
dren, were taken into custody. Numbets also were
arrested in the neighbouring district of Elfdale.
Being put to the torture, they all confessed their
guilt. They said they used to go to a gravel-pit
that lay hard by the cross-way, where they put
a vest upon their heads, and danced " round and
round and round about." They then went to the
cross-way, and called three times upon the devil;
the first time in a low still voice ; the second,
somewhat louder; and the third, very loudly, with
these words, "Antecessor, come, and carry us to
Blockula !" This invocation never failed to bring
him to their view. He generally appeared as a
little old man, in a grey coat, with red and blue
stockings, with exceedingly long garters. He had
THE WITCH MANIA. ~01
besides a very high-crowned hat, wit'h bands of
many-coloured linen enfolded about it, and a long
red beard, that hung down to his middle.
The first question he put to them was, whether
they would serve him soul a!ld body? On their
answering in the affirmative, he told them to make
ready for the journey to Blockula. It was neces-
sary to procure, in the first place, ".some scrapings
of altars and filings of church clocks... Antecessor
then gave them a horn, with some salve in it,
wherewith they anointed themselves. These pre-
parations ended, be brought beasts for them to
ride upon, horses, asses, goats, and monkeys; and,
giving them a saddle, a hammer, and a nail, ut-
tered the word of command, and away they went.
Nothing stopped them. They flew over churches,
high walls, rocks, and mountains, until they came
to the green meadow where Blockula was situated.
Upon these occasions they carried as many children
with them as they could ; for the devil, they said,
6
' did plague and whip them if they did not procure
him children, insomuch that they had no peace or
quiet for him." .
Many parents corroborated a part of this evi-
dence, stating that their ·children had repeatedly
told them that they had been carried away in the
night to Blockula, where the devil had beaten them
black and blue. They had seen the marks in the
morning, but they soon disappeared. One little
girl was examined, who swore positively that she
'.
802 THE WITCH MANIA.
was carried through the air by the witches, and
when at a great height she uttered the holy name
of Jesus. She immediately fell to the ground, and
made a great hole in her side. " The devil, how-
ever, picked her up, healed her side, and carried
her away to Blockula." She added, and he.r mother
confirmed her statement, that she had till that day
cc an exceeding great pain in her side." This was
a clencher, and the nail of conviction was driven
home to the hearts of the judges.
The place called Blockula, whither they were
carried, was a large house, with a gate to it, u in
a delicate meadow, whereof they could see no end.''
There was a very long table in it, at which the
.
witches sat down ; and in other rooma " there were
very lovely and delicate beds for them to sU:op
upon."
Mter a number of ceremonies had been per--
formed,. by which they bound the.mselvea, body and
.soul, to the service of Antecessor, they sat oown to
11 feast, composed of broth, made of colworts and
bacon, oatmeal, bread and butter, IQ.ilk and chee4e.
The devil always took the chair, and sometimetl
played to them on the harp or the fiddle, while
they were eating. After dinner they danced. ~
a ring, someti~ naked, and s<QetimeB in thoU
clothes, cun;ing and swearing all tho .time, Some
of the women added pal'ticulars too horrible .and
too obscene for repetition.
Once the devil pr~~nded to be dead, that he
THE WITCH MANIA. 803
might see whether his people regretted him. They
instantly set up a loud wail, and wept three tears
each for him, at which he was so pleased, that he
jumped up among them, and hugged in his arms
those who had been most obstreperous in their
sorrow.
Such were the principal details given by the
children, and corroborated by the confessions of
the full-grown witches. Anything more absurd was
never before stated in a court ofjustice. Many of
the accused contradicted themselves most palpably;
but the commissioners gave no heed to discre-
pancies. One of them, the parson of the district,
stated, in the course of tqe inquiry, that on a par-
ticular night, which he mentioned, he had been
afBicted with a headacb so agonizing, that he
could not account for it otherwise than by sup-
posing he was bewitched. In fact, he thought a
score of witches must have been dancing on the
crown of his head. This announcement. ~llcited
great horror among the pious dames of the audi!"
tory, who loudly expressed their wonder that the
devil ah.ould have power to hurt so good a man.
One poor witch, who lay in the very jaws of death,
confes&ed that she knew too well the cause of the
minister's headach. The devil had sent her with
a sledge hammer and a large nail, to drive into the
good man's skull. She had hammered at it for
some time, but the skull was so enormously thick,
that she made no impression upon it. Every band
j 1 ' I
TilE WITCH MANIA.
was held up in astonishment. The pious minister
blessed God that his skull was so solid, and he be-
came renowned for his thick bead all the days of
•
his life. Whether the witch intended a joke does
not appear, but she was looked upon as a criminal
more than usually atrocious. Seventy persons were
condemned to death on these so.awful yet so ridi-
culous confessions. Twenty-three of them were
burned together, in one fire, in the village of
Mohra, in the presence of thousands of delighted
spectators. On the following day fifteen children
were murdered in the same manner ; offered up in
sacrifice to the bloody Moloch ofsuperstition. The
remaining thirty-two we1e executed at the neigh-
bouring town of Fahluna. Besides these, fifty-six
children were found guilty of witchcraft in a minor
-degree, and sentenced to various punishments, such
as running the gauntlet, imprisonment, and public
whipping once a week for a twelvemonth.
Long after the occurrence ofthis case, it was cited
11s one of the most convincing proofs upon record
ofthe prevalence of witchcraft. When men wish
to construct or support a theory, how they torture
facts into their service ! The lying whimsies of a
few sick children, encouraged by foolish parents,
and drawn out by superstitious neighbours, were
sufficient to set a country in a flame. If, instead of
commissioners as deeply sunk in the slough of ig-
norance as the people they were sent amongst,
there l1ad been deputed a few .men firm in courage
THE WITCH MANIA. 805
and clear in underst~nding, how difFerent would
have been the result! Some of the poor children
who were burned would have been sent to an in"
firmary; others would have been well ~ogged; the
credulity of the parents would have been laughed
at, and the lives of seventy persons spared. The
belief in witchcraft remains in Sweden to this day;
but, happily, the annals of that country present no
more such instances of lamentable aberration of in-
tellect as the one just cited.
In New England, about the same time, the colo-
nists were scared by similar stories of the antics of
the devil. All at once a fear seized upon the mul-
titude, and supposed critpinals were arrested day
after day in such numbers, that the prisons were
found too small to contain them. A girl, named
Goodwin, the daughter of a mason, who was hypo"
chondriac and subject to fits, imagined that an old
Irishwoman, named Glover, had bewitched her.
Her two brothers, in whose constitutions there was
apparently a predisposition to similar fits, went off
in the same way, crying out that the devil and
Dame Glover were tormenting them. At times
their joints were so stiff that they could not be
moved, while at others, said the neighbours, they
were so flexible, that the bones appeared softened
into sinews. The supposed witch was seized, and,
as she could not repeat the Lord's Prayer without
making a mistake in it, she was condemned and
executed.
VOL. 11. X
806 THE WITCH MANIA.
;r But the popular excitement was not allayed.·
One victim was not enough : the people waited
agape for new disclosures. Suddenly two hysteric
girls in another family fell into fits daily, and the
cry of witchcraft resounded from one end of the
colony to the other. The feeling of suffocation in
the throat, so common in cases of hysteria, was said
by the patients to be caused by the devil himself,
who had stuck balls in the windpipe to choke them.-
They felt the pricking of thorns in ev_ery part of
the body, and one of them vomited needles. The
case of these girls, who w.ere the daughter and
niece of a Mr. Parvis, the minister of .a Calvinist_
ch~pel, excited so mucl]. attention, that all th&
weak women in the colony began to fancy them-
selves similarly afflicted. The more they brooded
on it, the more convinced they became. The con-
-tagion of this mental disease was as great as if it
had been a pestilence. One after the other the
women fainted away, asserting; on their recovery,
that they had seen the spectres ofwitches. Where
there were three or four girls in a family, they so
worked, each upon the diseased imagination of the
-other, that they felJ into fits five or six times in a.
day. Some related that the devil himself appeared
to them, bearing in his hand a parchment roll, and
promising that if they would sign an agreement
transferring to him their immortal souls, theyshould
be im~ediately relieved from fits and all th~ ills
of the flesh. Others asserted that they saw witches
THE WITCH MANIA~ 807
only, who made them similar promises, threatening
that they should never be free from aches and pains
till they had agreed to become the devil's. When
they r.efused, the witches pinched, or bit, or pricked
them with long pins and needles. More than two
hundred persons named by these mischievous vision-
aries, were thrown into prison. They were of all
ages and conditions of life, and many of them of
exemplary char~cter. No less than nineteen were
condemned and executed before reason returned to
the minds of.the colonists. The most horrible part
of thislamentable history is, that among the victims
there was a little chil4 only five years·old. Some
women swore that they had seen it repeatedly in
company with . the devil, and that it had bitten
them often with its little teeth, for refusing to sign
a compact with the Evil One. It can hardly in-
crease our feelings of disgust and abhorrence when
we .}earn that this insane community actually .tried
and executed a dog for the same offence !
One man, nam.ed Cory, stoutly re_fused to plead
to the preposterous indictment against him. Aa
was the :practice in such cases, he was pressed to
deat~ It is told of the Sheriff of New England,
who superintended the execution, that when this
unhappy man thrust out his tongue in his mortal
agony, he seized hold of a cane, and crammed it
back again into the mouth. . If ever there were a
fiend in human form, it .was this Sheriff; ~ man,
who,. if the truth were known, perhaps plumed
x2
808 THE WITCH MANIA.
himself upon his piety-thought he was doing God
good service, and
"Hoped to merit heaven by making earth a hell !"
Arguing still in the firm belief of witchcraft, the
bereaved people began to inquire, when they saw
their dearest friends snatched away from them by
these wide-spreading accusations, whether the whole
proceedings were not carried on by the agency of
the devil. Might not the great enemy have put
false testimony into the mouths of the witnesses,
or might not the witnesses be witches themselves 1
Every man who was in danger of losing his wife,·
his child, or his sister, embraced this doctrine with
avidity. The revulsion was as sudden as the first
frenzy. All at once, the colonists were convinced
of their error. The judges put a stop to the pro-
secutions, even of those who had confessed their
guilt. The latter were no sooner at liberty than
they retracted all they bad said, and the greater
number hardly remembered the avowals which
agony had extorted from them.. Eight persons,
who had been tried and condemned, were set
free; and gradually gids ceased to have fits and to
talk of the persecutions of the devil. The judge
who had condemned the nrst criminal executed
on this charge, was so smitten with sorrow and
humiliation at his folly, that he set apart the anni-
versary of that day as one ofsolemn penitence and'
fasting. Be still clung to the belief in witchcraft ;
THE WITCH MANIA. 809
no new light had broken in upon him on that
subject, but, happily for the community, the delu-
sion bad taken a merciful turn. The whole colony
shared the feeling; the jurors on the different trials
openly expressed their penitence in the churches ;
and those who had suffered were regarded as the) 1
victims, and not the accomplices of Satan.
It is related that the Indian tribes in New Eng-
land were sorely puzzled at the infatuation of the
settlers, and thought them either a race inferior
to, or more sinful than the French colonists in the
vicinity, amongst whom, as they remarked, " the
Great Spirit sent no witches."
Returning again to the continent of Europe,
we .find that, after the year 1680, men became
still wiser upon this subject. For twenty years
the. populace were left to their belief, but go-
vernments in general gave it no aliment in the
shape of executions. The edict of Louis XIV.
gave a blow to the superstition, from which it
never recovered. The last execution in the Pro-
testant cantons of Switzerland was at Geneva, in
1652. The various potentates of Germany, al-
though they could not stay the trials, invariably
commuted the sentence into imprisonment, in all
cases where the pretended witch was accused of
pure witchcraft, unconnected with any other crime.
In the year 1701, Thomasius, the learned professor
at the University of Halle, delivered his inaugu-
ral thesis, " De Crimine Magie," which struck an-
j 1 ' I
·SlO .THE WITCH MANIA:
other blow 'at the falling monster of popular error.
But .a faith so strong as .that in witchcraft was
not to be·eradicated at once : the arguments of
learned men did not penetrate to the villagesrand
hamlets, but still they achieved great things ; they
rendered the belief an unworking faith, and pre-
vented the supply of victims, on which for so Dl8ny
ages it had battened and grown strong.
Once more the delusion broke out ; like a wild
beast wounded to the death, it collected all its
remaining energies for the final convulsion, which
was to show how mighty it had once been.. .Ger-
many, which had nursed the frightful error in· its
.cradle, tended it on its death-bed, and Wiirzburg,
the scene of so many murders on the same pretext,
was destined to·be the scene of the last. ·That it
might lose no portion of its bad renown, the last
murder was as ·atrocious as the first. This case
ofFers a great resemblance to that of the witches
of Mohra and New England, except in the number
of its victims. lt happened so late as the year .
174.9, to the astonishment and disgust of the rest
of Europe.
A number of young women in a convent at
Wiirzburg fancied themselves bewitched; they felt,
like all hysteric subjects, a sense of suffocation in
.the tbrf?at. They went into fits repeatedly ; and
one of them, who had swallowed needles, evacuated
-them at abscesses, which formed in different parts
of the body. The cry of sorcery was raised, and
THE WITCH .MANIA. Sll
a young woman, ·named Maria Renata Sanger, was
arrested on the charge of having leagued w~th the
devil, to bewitch five of the young ladies. It" was
sworn on the trial that Maria had been frequently
seen to clamber over the convent walls in the shape
of a pig - that, proceeding to t~e cellar, she used
to drink the best wine till she was intoxicated;
and then start suddenly up in her own form.
Other girls asserted that she used to prowl about
the roof like a. cat, and often penetrate into their
chamber, and frighten them by her dreadful howl-
ings. It was also said that she had been seen in
the shape of a hare, milking the cows dry in the
meadows belonging to the convent ; that she used
to perform as an actress on the boards of Drury
Lane theatre in London, and, on the very same
night, return upon a broomstick to Wiirzburg, and
aftlict the young ladies with pains in all their limbs.
Upon this evidence she was condemned, and burn-
ed alive in the market-place of Wiirzburg.
Here ends this frightful catalogue of murder and
1uperstition. Since that day, the belief in witch-
craft has fled from the populous abodes of men,
and taken refuge in remote vilh~ges and districts
too wild, rugged, and inhospitable to afford a
resting-place for the foot of civilization. Rude
fishers and uneducated labourers still attribute
every phenomenon of nature which they cannot
account for, to the devil and witches. Catalepsy,
that wondrous disease, is still thought by ignorant
,· '
812 THE WITCH MANIA,
gossips to be the work of Satan ; and hypochon-
driacs, uninformed by science ofthe nature of their
malady, devoutly believe in the reality of their vi-
sions. The reader would hardly credit the extent
of the delusion upon this subject in the very heart
of England at this day. Many an old woman leads
a life of misery from the unfeeling insults of her
neighbours, who raise the scornful finger and hoot..
ing voice at her, because in her decrepitude she
is ugly, spit~ful, perhaps insane, and realizes in
her personal appearance the description preserved
by traditiqn of ·the witches of yore. Even in the
neighbourhood of great towns the taint remains
of this once widely-spread contagion. If no vic-
tims fall beneath it, the enlightenment of the law
is all that prevents a recurrence of scenes as hor-
rid as those of the seventeetb century. Hundreds
upon hundreds of witnesses could be found to swear
to absurdities as great as those asserted by the in-
famous Matthew Hopkins.
In the Annual Register for 1760, an instance of
the belief in witchcraft is related, which shows bow
superstition lingers. A dispute arose in the little
village of Glen, in Leicestershire, between two old
women, each of whom vehemently accused the other
of witchcraft. The quarrel at last ran so high that
a challenge ensued, and they both agreed to be
tried by the ordeal of swimming. They accord-
ingly stripped to their shifts-procured some men,
who tied their thumbs and great toes together,
•
TH.E WITCH MANIA.
cross-wise, imd then, with a cart-rope about their
middle, suffered themselves to be thrown into a
pool of water. One of them sank immediately, but
the other continued st_
ruggling a short time upon
the surface of the water, which the mob deeming
an infalJible sign of her guilt, pulled her out, and
insisted that she should immediately impeach all
her accomplices in the craft. She accordingly told
them that, in the neighbouring village of Burton,
there were several old women as " much witches as
she was!' Happily for her, this negative infor-
mation was deemed sufficient, and a student in
astrology, or " white-witch," coming up at the
time, the mob, by hi11 dire·ction, proceeded forthwith
to Burton in search of all the delinquents. After
a little consultation on their arrival, they went to
the old woman's house on whom they had fixed the
strongest suspicion. The poor old creature on
their approach locked ·,the outer door, and from
the window of an upstairs room asked what they
wanted. They informed her that she was charged
with being guilty of witchcraft, and.that they were
come to duck her; remonstrating with her at the
same time upon the necessity of submission to
the ordeal, that, if she were innocent, all the world
might know it. Upon her persisting in a positive
refusal to come down, they broke open the door
and carried her out by force, to a deep gravel-pit
full of water. They tied her thumbs and toes to-
gether and threw her into the water, where they
314 THE ·WITCH MANIA,
kept her for ·seveul minutes. drawing her out and
in two· or three times by the rope round her mid-
dle. _
Not being able to satisfy themselves whether
;he were a witch or no, they at last let. her go..
orJ more properly speaking, they left her o~ the
bank to walk home by herself, if she ever recover-
ed. Next day, they tried the same experiment
upon another ,woman, and afterwards upon a third ;
but, fortunately, neither of the victims lost her
life from this brutality. Many of the ringlead-
ers i'n the outrage were apprt:hended duri~g the
week, and tried before the justices at quarter-
sessions. Two of them were sentenced to stand
in the pillory and to be imprisoned for a month ;
·and as many as ·twenty more were fined in small
sums for the assault, and bound over to keep the
peace fur a twelvemonth.
c, So late as the year 1785," says Arnot, in his
collection and .abridgment of Criminal Trials in
Scotland, '* it was the custom among the sect of
Seceders to read from the pulpit a~ annual con-
fession of sins, national and personal ; amongst the
former of which was particularly mentioned .the
1
Repeal by Parliament of the penal statute against
witches, contrary to the express laws of God.'"
Many ·houses are still to be found in England
with the hor~e-shoe (the grand preservative against
witchcraft) nailed against the threshold. If any
over-wise philosopher should attempt to remove
t.hem, the chances are .that he would have more
THE WITCH MANIA: 315
broken ·bones than thanks · fot his:. interference.
Let any man walk into Cross-street, Hatton-Gar-
den,· and from thence into Bleeding-heart Yard,
and }earn the tales siiJ} to)d 'and believed of one
bouse in that neighbourhood, and he will ask him-
self in astonis_
hment if such -things can be 'in the
nineteenth century. The witchcraft of Lady Hat-
ton, the wife of the famous Sir Christopher, so
renowned for his elegant dancing in the days of
Elizabeth, is as devoutly believed as the Gospels.
The room is to be seen where the devil seized her
after the expiration of the contract he had made
·with her, 'and bore her away bodily to the pit of
Tophet: the pump against which he dashed her
is still pointed out, and the spot where her heart
was found, after he liad torn it out of her bOS'om
with his iron claws, has received the name of
Bleeding-heart Yard, in confirmation of the ·story.
Wheth~r the horse-shoe still remains upon -the
doo• of the haunted house, to keep away other
.witches, is uncertain ; but there it was,· twelve or
thirteen years ago. The 'writer resided .at that
time in the house alluded to, and well remembers
that more than one old woman begged for .admit-
tance repeatedly, to satisfy themselves that it was
in its proper place. One poor creature, apparently
i_nsane, and clothed in rags, came to the door with
a tremendous double-knock, as loud as that of a
fashionable footman, and walked straight along the
passage to the horse-shoe. Great was the wonder-
816 THE WITCH MANIA.
ment of the inmates, especially when the woman
spat upon the horse-shoe, and expressed her sorrow
that she could do no harm while it remained there.
After spitting upon, and kicking it again and
again, she coolly turned round and left the house,
without saying a word to anybody. This poor
creature perhaps intended a joke, hilt the proba-
bility is that she imagined herself a witch. In
Saffron Hill, where she resided, her ignorant neigh-
bours gave her that character, and looked upon
her with no little fear and aversion.
More than one example of the popular belief in
witchcraft occurred in the neighbourhood of Has-
tings so lately as the year 1880. An aged woman,
who resided in the Rope-walk of that town, was so
· repulsive in her appearance, that she was invariably.
accused of being a witch by all the ignorant people
who knew her. She was bent completely double;
and though very old, her eye was unusually bright
and malignant. She wore a red cloak, and .sup-
ported herself on a crutch : she was, to all outward
appearance, the very beau ideal of a witch. So
dear is power to the human heart, that this old
woman actually encouraged the popular supersti-
, tion : she took no pains to remove the ill im-
pression, but seemed to delight that she, old and
miserable as she was, could keep in awe so many
happier and stronger fellow-creatures. Timi4 girls
crouched with fear when they met her, and m~ny
would go a mile out of their way to avoid .her_
.
THE WITCH MANIA. 517
Like the witches of the olden time, she was not
sparing of her curses against those who offended
her. The child of a woman who resided within
two doors of her, was afBicted with lameness, and
the mother constantly asserted that the old woman
had bewitched her. All the neighbours credited
the tale. It was believed, too, that she could as-
sume the form of a cat. Many a harmless puss
has been hunted almost to the death by mobs of
men and boys, upon the supposition that the ani-
mal would start up before them in the true shape
of Mother • • • • •.
In the same town there resided a fisherman,-
who is, probably, still alive, and whose name, for·
that reason, we forbear to mention,-who was
the object of unceasing persecution, because it
was said that he bad sold himself to the devil.
It was currently reported that he could creep
through a keyhole, and that he had· made a witch
of his daughter, in order that be might have
the more power over his fellows. It was also be-
lieved that he could sit on the points of pins and
needles, and feel no pain. His brother-fishermen
put him to this test whenever they had an oppor-
tunity. In the alehouses which he frequented,
they often placed long needles in the cushions
of the chairs, in such a. manner that he could
not fail to pierce himself when he sat down. The
result of these experiments tended to confirm their
faith in his supernatural powers. It was asserted
318 THE WITCH MANIA.-
that he never flinched. Such was the popular feel--
ing in the fashionable town of Hastings only seven .
years ago; very probably it is the same now.
In the north of England, the superstition lingers
to an almost inconceivable extent. Lancashire
abounds. with witcl1~doctors, a set of quacks, who
pretend to cure. diae.ases infti.cted by the devil.
The.practices.of these worthies. may be judged of
by the following case, reported in the 11
Hertford
Reformer,:'' of the 28rd of June, 1888. The witch-.
doctor alluded,to is better known by the name of
the cunning man, and bas a large practice in tl1e·
counties of.Lincoln and Nottingham. According
to the writer in" The Reformer," the dupe, whose
name is no.t mentioned, had been for about two
years afilicted with a painful abscess, and had been
prescribed for without relief by more than one
medical gentleman. He was urged by some of his.
friends, not only in his own village, but in·neigh~
bouring ones, to consult the witch-doctor, as they
were convinced he was under some evil influence.
He agreed, and. sent his wife to the cu1ming
man, who lived in New Saint Swithin's, in "Lin-
coln. She was .informed by .this ignorant impos-:
tor that her husbAnd's disorde.r was an infliction
of the devil, occasioned. by his next-door neigh..
hours, who had made. use of certain charms for
~at purpose. From the description he gave of
the process, it appears to be .the. same as that em..
ployed by Dr. Fian ~nd: Gellie. Duncan, to. work
THE WITCH MANIA. Sl9
woe upon King James. He stated that the neigh-
bours, instigated by a witch, whom he pointed out,
took some wax, and moulded it before the fire into
the form of her husband, as near as they could
represent him ; they then pierced the image with.
pins on all sides--repeated the Lord's Prayer back-
wards, and offered prayers to the devil that he
would fix his stings into the person whom that
figure represented, in like manner as they pierced
it with pins. To counteract the effects of this dia-
bolical process, the witch-doctor prescribed a cer-
tain medicine, and a charm to be worn next the
body, on that part where ·the disease principally
lay. The patient was to repeat the l09th and
119th Psalms every day, or the cure would not ·be
effectual. The fee which he claimed for this ad-
vice was a guinea.
So efficacious is faith in the cure of any malady,
that the patient actually felt mu~b better after a
three weeks' course of this prescription. The no-
table charm which the quack had given was after-
wards opened, and found to be a piece of parch-
ment, covered with some cabalistic characters and
signs of the planets.
The next-door neighbours were in great alarm
that the witch-doctor would, on the solicitati~n
of the recovering patient, employ some means to
punish them for their pretended witchcraft. To
escape ·the infliction, they feed another cunning
man, in Nottinghamshire, who ·told ·them of a si.
j 1 ' I
820 THE WITCH MANIA.
milar charm, which would preserve them from all
the malice of their enemies. The writer concludes
by saying that, 11
the doctor, not long after he had
been thus consulted, wrote to say that he had dis-
covered that his patient was not afflicted by Sa-
tan, as be had imagined, but by God, and would
continue, more or less, in the same state till his
life's end."
An impostor carried on a similar trade in the
neighbourhood of Tunbridge Wells, about the year
1880. He had been in practice for several years.
and charged enormous fees for his advice. This
fellow pretended to be the seventh son of a seventh
son, and to be endowed in consequence with mira-
culous powers for the cure of all diseases, but espe-
cially of those resulting from witchcraft. It was not
only the poor who employed him, but ladies who·
rode in their carriages. He was often sent for from
a distance of sixty or seventy miles by these people,
who paid all his expenses to and fro, besides re-
warding him handsomely. He was about eighty
years of age, and his extremely venerable appear-
ance aided his imposition in no slight degree. His
name was Okey, or Oakley.
In France, the superstition at this day is even
more prevalent than it is in England. Garinet, in
his history of Magic and Sorcery in that country,
cites upwards of twenty instances which occurred
between the years 1805 and 1818. In the latter
year, no less than three tribunals were occupied
TilE WITCH MANIA. 321
with trials originating in this humiliating belief :
we shall cite only one of them. Julian Desbourdes~
aged fifty-three, a mason, and inhabitant of the vil-
lage of Thilouze, near Bordeaux, was taken sudden-
ly ill, in the month of January 1818. As he did
not know how to account for his malady, he sus-
pect~d at last that he was bewitched. He commu-
nicated this suspicion to his son-in-law, Bridier, and
they both went to consult a sort of icliot, named
Baudouin, who passed for a conjuror,. or white-
witch. This man told them that Desbourdes was
certainly bewitched, and offered to accompany them
to the house of an old man, named Renard, who, he
said. was undoubtedly the criminal. On the night
of the 23rd of January all three proceeded steal-
thily to the dwelling of Renard, and accused him of
aftiicting persons with diseases, by the aid of the
devil. Desbourdes fell on his knees, and earnestly
entreated to be restored to his former health, pro-
mising that he would take no measures against him
for the evil he had done. The old man denied
in the strongest terms that he was a wizard ; and
when Desbourdes still pressed him to remove the
sp'ell from him, he said he knew nothing about the
spell, and refused to remove it. The idiot Bau-
douin, the white-witch, now interfered, and told his
companions that no relief for the malady could ever
be procured until the old man confessed his guilt.
'fo force him tO' confession they lighted some sticks
of sulphur, which they had brought with them for
VOL. ll. y
THE WITCH MANIA.
the purpose, and placed them under the old man's
nose. In a few moments, he fell down sufFocated
and apparently lifeless. They were all greatly
alarmed ; and thinking that they had killed the
man, they carried him out and threw him into a
neighbouring pond, hoping to make it appear that
be had fallen in accidentally. The pond, however,
was not very deep, and the coolness of the water
reviving the old man, he opened his eyes and sat
up. Desbourdes and .Bridier, who were still waiting
on the bank, were now more alarmed than before,
lest he should recover and inform against them.
They, therefore, waded into the pond-seized their
victim by the hair of the head - beat him se-
verely, and then held him under water till he was
drowned.
They were all three apprehended on the charge
of murder a few days afterwards. Desbourdes and
Bridier were found guilty of aggravated man-
slaughter only, and sentenced to be burnt on the
back, and to work in the galleys for life. The
white-witch Baudouin was acquitted, on the ground
of insanity.
M. Garinet further informs us that France, ·at
the time he wrote (1818), was overrun by a race
of fellows, who made a trade of casting out devi~
and finding out witches. He adds, also,"that many
of the priests in the rural districts encouraged
the superstition of their parishioners, by resorting
frequently to exorcisms, whenever any foolish per-
THE WITCU MANIA. 828
sons took it into their heads that a spell had been
thrown over them. He recommended, as a remedy
for the evil, that ~11 these exorcists, whether lay
or clerical, should be sent to the galleys, and that
the number of witches would then very sensibly
diminish.
Many other instances of this lingering belief
might be cited both in France and Great Britain,
and indeed in every other country in Europe. So
deeply rooted are some errors that ages cannot
remove them. The poisonous tree that once over-
shadowed the land, may be cut down by the sturdy
efforts of sages and philosophers-the sun may
shine cleatly upon spots where venemous things
once uestled in security and shade; but still the
entangled roots are stretched beneath the sur-
face, and may be found by those who dig. Another
king, like James I, might make them vegetate
again ; and, more mischievous still, another pope_,
like Innocent VIII, might raise the decaying roots
to strength and verdure. StilJ, it is consoling to
think, that the delirium bas passed away; that the
raging madness has given place to a milder fol1y;
and that we may now count by units the votaries
of a superstition which, in former ages, numbered
its victims by tens of thousands, and its votaries•~
by millions.
Y2
j 1 ' I
824
THE SLOW POISONERS.
Pucara.-The like was never read of.
Stepnano.-Jn my judgment,
To all that shall but hear it, 't will appear
A most impossible fable.
Pucara.-Troth, I '11 tell you,
And briefly as l can, by what degrees
They fell into this madneaa.
Dul:e qfMilan.
THE atrocious system of poisoning, by poisons so
slow in their operation, as to make the victim ap-
pear, to ordinary observers, as if dying from a
gradual decay of nature, has been practised in all
ages. Those who are curious in the matter may
refer to Beckmann on Secret Poisons, in his •• His-
tory of Inventions," in which he has collected seve-
ral instances of it from the Greek and Roman
writers. Early in the sixteenth century the crime
seems to have gradually increased, till, in the se.ven-
teenth, it spread over Europe like a pestilence.
It was often exercised by pretended witches and
sorcerers, and finally became a branch of education
amongst all who laid any claim to magical and
supernatural arts. In the twenty-first year of
Henry VIII. an act was passed, rendering it high-
j 1 ' I
THE SLOW POISONERS. S!5
treason : those found guilty of it, were to be boiled
to death.
One of the first in point of date, and hardly
second to any in point of atrocity, is the murder
by this means of Sir Thomas Overbury, which dis-
graced the court of James I, in the year 1618. A
slight sketch of it will be a fitting introduction
to the history of the poisoning mania, which was
so prevalent in France and Italy fifty years later.
Robert Kerr, a Scottish youth, was early taken
notice of by James I, and loaded with honours, for
no other reason that tl1e world could ever discover
than the beauty of his person. James, even in his
own day, was suspected of being addicted to the
most abominable of all offences, and the more we
examine his history now, the stronger lhe suspicion
becomes. However that may be, the handsome
Kerr, lending his smooth cheek, even in public,
to the disgusting kisses of his royal master, rose
rapidly in favour. In the year 1618, he was made
Lord High Treasurer o~ Scotland, and created an
English peer, by the style and title of Viscount
Rochester. Still further honours were in store for
him.
In this rapid promotion he had not been without
a friend. Sir Thomas Overbury, the King•s secre-
tary-who appears, from some threats in his own let-
ters, to have been no better than a pander to the
vices ofthe King, and privy to his dangerous secrets
-exerted all his backstair influence to forward the
826 THE SLOW POISONERS.
promotion of Kerr, by whom he was, doubtless, re-
paid in some way or other. Overbury did not con-
fine his friendship to this, if friendship ever could
exist between two such men, but acted the part
of an entremetteur, and assisted Rochester to carry
on an adulterous intrigue with the Lady Frances
Howard, the wife of the Earl of Essex. This wo-
man was a person of violent passions, and lost to
all senSe of shame. Her husband was in her way,
and to be freed from him, she instituted proceed-
ings for a divorce, on grounds which a woman of
any modesty or delicacy of feeling would die rather
than ~vow. Her scandalous suit was. successful,
and was no sooner decided than preparations, on
a scale of the greatest magnificence, were made
for her marriage with Lord Rochester.
Sir Thomas Overbury, who bad willingly assisted
his patron to intrigue with the Countess of Essex,
seems to have imagined that his marriage with so
vile a woman might retard his advancement; he
accordingly employed all his influence to dissuade
him from it. But Rochester was bent on the
match, and his passions were as violent as those
of the Countess. On one occasion, when Overbury
and the Viscount were walking in the gallery of
Whitehall, Overbury was overheard to say," Well,
my Lord, if you do marry that base woman, you will
utterly ruin your honour and yourself. You shall
never do it with my advice or consent; and, if
you do, you had best look to stand fast!' Ro-
TH2 SLOW POISONERS.
chester flung from him in a rage, exclaiming with
an oath, '' I will be even with you for this." These
words were the death-warrant of the unfortunate
Overbury. He had mortally wounded the pride
of Rochester in insinuating that byhis (Overbury's)
means he might be lowered in the King's favour ;
and he bad ~ndeavoured to curb the burning pas..
sions of a heartless, dissolute, and reckless man.
Overbury's imprudent remonstrances were re..
ported to the Countess; and from -
that moment,
she also vowed the most deadly vengeance against
him. With a fiendish hypocrisy, however, they
both concealed their intentions, and Overbury, at
the solicitation of Rochester, was appointed am-
bassador to the court of Russia. This apparent
favour was but the first step in a deep and deadly
plot. Rochester, pretending to be warmly attached
to the interests of Overbury, advised him to refuse
the embassy, which, he said., was but a trick to
get him out of the way. He promised, at the same
time, to stand between him and any evil conse-
quences which might result from his refusal. Over-
bury fell into the snare, and declined the embassy.
James, offended, immediately ordered his commit-
tal to the Tower.
He was now in safe custody, and his enemies
had opportunity to commence the-work of ven-
geance. The first thing Rochester did was to pro-
cure, by his inftuence ~t court, the dismissal of the
Lieutenant of the Tower, and the appointment of
328 THE SLOW POISONKRS.
Sir Jervis Elwes, one of his creatures, to the va-
cant post. This man was but one instrument,
and another being necessary, was found in Richard
Weston, a fellow who bad formerty been shopman
to a druggist. He was installed in the office of
under-keeper, and as such had the direct custody
of Overbury. So far, all was favou_rable to the
designs of the conspirators.
In the mean time, the insidious Rochester wrote
the most friendly letters to Overbury, requesting
him to bear his ill-fortune patiently, and promising
that his imprisonment should not be of long dura-
tion ; for that his friends we.re exerting themselves
to soften the King's displeasure. Still pretending
the extreme of sympathy for him, he followed up
the letters by presents of pastry and other deli-
cacies, whlch could not be procured in the Tower.
These articles were all poisoned. ·Occasionally,
presents of a similar description were sent to Sir
Jervis Elwes, with the understanding that these
articles were not poisoned, when they were· unac-
companied by letters : of these the unfortunate pri-
soner never tasted. A woman, named Turner, who
bad formerly kept a house of ill fame, and who had
more than once lent it to further the guilty inter-
course of Rochester and Lady Essex, was the agent
employed to procure the poisons. They were pre-
pared by Dr. Forman, a pretended fortune-teller
of Larnb~th, assisted by an apothecary named
Franklin. Both these persons knew for wbat
THE SLOW POISONERS. S29
purposes the poisons were needed, and employed
their skill in mixing them in the pastry and other
edibles, in such small quantities as gradually to
wear out the constitution of their victim. Mrs.
Turner regularly furnished the poisoned articles
to the under-keeper, who placed them before Over-
bury. Not only his food, but his drink was poison-
ed. Arsenic was mixed with the salt he ate, and
cantharides with the pepper. All this time, his
health declined sensibly. Every day he grew
weaker and weaker; and· with a sickly appetite,
craved for sweets and jellies. Rochester continued
to condole with him, and anticipated all his wants
in this respect, sending him abundance of pastry,
and occasionally partridges and other game, and
young pigs. With the sauce for the game, Mrs.
Turner mixed a quantity of cantharides, and poi-
soned the pork with lunar-eaustic. As stated on
the trial, Overbury took in this manner poison
enough to have poisoned twenty men ; but his con-
stitution was strong, and be still lingered. Frank-
lin, the apothecary, confessed that he prepared
with Dr. Forman seven different sorts of poisons;
viz. aquafortis, arsenic, mercury, powder of dia-
monds, lunar-caustic, great spiders, and cantha-
rides. Overbury he1d out so long tbat Rochester
became impatient, and in a letter to Lady Essex,
expressed his wonder that things were not sooner
despatched. Orders were immediately sent by
Lady Essex to the keeper to finish with the vic-
380 THE SLOW POISONERS.
tim at once. Overbury had not been all this time
without suspicion of treachery, although he appears
to have had no idea of poison. He merely sus-
pected that it was intended to coonne him for life,
and to set the King still more bitterly against him.
In one of his letters, he threatened Rochester that,
unless he were speedily liberated, he would expose
his villany to the world. He says, " You and I,
ere it be long, will come to a public trial of an-
other nature." • • • "Drive me not to ex-
tremities, lest I should· say something that both
you and I should repent." • • • " Whether
I liTe or die, your shame shall never die, but eyer
remain to the world, to make you the most odious
man living." • • • 11
I wonder much you
should neglect him to whom such secrets of all
kinds have passed." • • • "Be these the
fruits of common secrets, common dangers?"
All these remonstrances, and hints as to the
dangerous secrets in his keeping, were ill-calcu-
lated to serve him with a man so reckless as Lord
Rochester: they were more likely to cause him
to be sacrificed than to be saved. Rochester ap-
pears to have acted as if he thought so. He
doubtless employed the murderer's reasoning that
11
dead men tell no tales," when, after receiving
letters of this description, he complained to his
paramour of the delay. Weston was spurred on
to consummate the atrocity ; and the patience of
all parties being exhausted, a dose of corrosive
•
TH'E SLOW POISONERS. 881
sublimate was administered to him, in October
1618, which put an end to his sufferings, after he
had been for six months in their hands. On the
very day of his death, and before his body was
cold, he was wrapped up carelessly in a sheet, and
buried without any funeral ceremony in a pit
within the precincts of the Tower.
Sir Anthony Weldon,.in his 11
Court and Charac-
ter of James I,, gives a somewhat different account
of the closing scene of this tragedy. He says,
" Frankl~n and Weston came into Overbury's cham-
ber, and found him in infinite torment, with con-
tention between the strength of nature and the
working of the poison ; and it being very like that
nature bad gotten the better in this contention,
by the thrusting out of boils, blotches, and blains,
they, fearing it might come to light by the judg-
ment of physicians, the foul play that bad been
offered him, consented to stifle him with the bed-
clothes, which accordingly was performed ; and so
ended his miserable life, with the assurance of the
conspirators that he died by the poison ; none·
thinking otherwise than these two murderers!'
1~he sudden death- the indecent haste of the
funeral, and the non-holding of an inql\est upon
the body, strengthened tJle suspicions that were
afloat. Rumour, instead of whispering, began to
speak out ; and the relatives of the deceased open-
ly expressed their belief that their kinsman had
been murdered. B11t Rochester was still all power-
j 1 ' I
882 TllE SLOW POISONERS.
ful at court, and no one dared to utter a word
to his discredit. Shortly afterwards, his marriage
with the Countess of Essex was celebrated with the
utmost splendour, the King himself being present
at the ceremony.
It would seem that Overbury's knowledge of
James's cltaracter was deeper than Rochester had
given him credit for, and that he had been a true
prophet when he predicted that his marriage would
eventually estrange James from his minion. At
this time, however, Rochester stood higfter than
ever in the royal favour ; but it did not last long-
conscience, that busy monitor, was at work. The
tongue of rumour was never still ; and Rochester,
who had long been a guilty, became at last a
wretched man. His cheeks lost their colour -his
eyes grew dim; and be became moody, careless,
and melancholy. The King seeing him thus, took
at length no pleasure in his society, and began
to look about for another favourite. George Vil-
liers, Duke of Buckingham, was the man to his
mind ; quick-witted, handsome, and unscrupulous.
The two latter qualities alone were sufficient to
recommend him to James I. In proportion as the
influence of Rochester declined, that of Bucking-
ham increased. A falling favourite has no friends;
and Rumour wagged her tongue against Rochester
louder and more pertinacious!y than ever. A new
fal·ourite, too, generally endeavours to hasten by
a kick the fall of the old one; and Buckingham,
THE SLOW POISONERS. 838
anxious to work the complete ruin of his forerunner
in the King's good graces, encouraged the relatives
of Sir Thomas Overbury to prosecute their in-
quiries into the st.range death of their kinsman.
James was rigorous enough in the punishment
of offences when he was not himself involved. He
piqued himself, moreover, on his dexterity in un-
ravelling mysteries. The affair of Sir Thomas
Overbury found him congenial occupation. He
set to work by ordering the arrest of Sir Jervis
Elwes. James, at this early stage of the proceed-
ings, does not seem to have been aware that Ro-
chester was so deeply implicated. Struck with
horror at the atrocious syst~m of slow poisoning,
the King sent for all the Judges. According to
Sir Anthony Weldon, he knelt down in the midst
of them, and said, '"'My Lords the Judges, it is
lately come to my hearing that you have now in
examination a business of poisoning. Lord ! in
what a miserable. condition shall this kingdom be
(the onlyfamous nation for hospitality in the world)
if our tables should become such a snare, as that
none could eat without danger of life, and that
Italian custom should be introduced among us!
Therefore, my Lords, I charge you, as you will
answer it at that great and dreadful day of judg-
ment, that you examine it strictly, without favour,
affection, or partiality. And if you shall spare any
guilty of this crime, God's curse light on you and
your posterity t and if I spare any that arc. guilty,
\ th'' I
THE SLOW POISONERS,
God's curse light on me and my posterity for
ever!.,
The imprecation fell but too surely upon the
devoted house of Stuart. The solemn oath was
broken, and God's curse did light upon him and his
posterity!
The next person arrested after Sir Jervis Elwes,
was Weston, the under-keeper; then Franklin and
Mrs. Turner; and, lastly, the Earl and Countess
of Somerset, to which dignity 'Rochester had been
advanced since the death of Overbury.
Weston was first brought to trial. Public curi-
osity was on the stretch. Nothing else was talked
of, and the court on the day of trial was crowded
to suffocation. The u State Trials" report, that
Lord Chief Justice Coke "laid open to the jury
the baseness and cowardliness of poisoners, who at.
tempt that secretly against which there is no means
of preservation or defence for a man's life; and how
rare it was to hear of any poisoning in England, so
detestable it was to our nation. But the devil had
taught divers to be cunning in it, so that they can
poison in what distance of space they please, by
consuming the nativum calidum, or humidum radi-
cale, in one month, two or three, or more, as they
list, which they four manner o,f ways do execute ;
viz. haustu, gustu, odore, and contactu."
When the indictment wa" read over, Weston
made no other reply than, u Lord have mercy upon
me ! Lord have mercy upon me 1" On being asked
j 1 ' I
THE SLOW POISONERS. 885
how he would be tried, he refused to throw himself
upon a jury of his country, and declared, that he
would be tried by God alone. In this he persisted
for some time. The fear of the dreadful "
punish-
ment for contumacy• induced him, at length, to
plead "Not guilty," and take his trial in due course
of law.
All the circumstances against him were fully
proved, and he was found guilty and executed at
Tyburn. Mrs. Turner, Franklin, and Sir Jervis
Elwes were also brought to trial, found guilty, and
executed between the 19th of October and the 4th
of December 1615; but the grand trial of the Earl
and Countess ofSomerset did not take place till the
month of May following.
On the trial of Sir Jervis Elwes, circumstances
bad transpired, showing a guilty knowledge of the
poisoning on the part of the Earl of Northampton
• The punishment for the contumacioUll was expressed by the
words onere, frigore, etfame. By the fint was meant that the
culprit should be extended on his back on the ground, and weights
placed over his body, gradually increased, until he exp~. Some-
times the punishment was not extended to t~ length, and the
victim, being allowed to recover, underwent the second portion, the
frigore, which consisted in his standing naked in the open air, for
a certain space, in the sight ofaU the people. The third, orfame,
was more dreadful, the statute saying, "That he was to be pre-
served with the coarsest bread that could be got, and water out of
the next sink or puddle, to the place ofexecution ; and that day he
had water he should have no bread, and that day he had bread, he
should have no water;" and in this torment he was to linger as
long as 11aturewould hold out.
386 THE SLOW POISONERS.
the uncle of Lady Somerset, and the chief falconer
Sir Thomas Monson. The former was dead ; but
Sir Thomas Monson was arrested, and brought to
trial. It appeared, however, that he was too dan-
gerous a man to be brought to the scaffold. He
lrnew too many ofthe odious secrets of James I, and
his dying speech might contain disclosures which
would compromise the King. To conceal old guilt
it was necessary to incur new : the trial ofSir Tho-
mas Monson was brought to an abrupt conclusion,
and himself set at liberty !
Already James had broken his oath. He now
began to fear that he had been rash in engaging
so zealously to bring the poisoners to punish-
ment. That Somerset would be declared guilty
there was no doubt, and that he looked for pardon
and impunity was equally evident to the King.
Somerset, while in the Tower, asserted confidently,
that James would not da1·e to bring him to trial.
In this he was mistaken ; but James was in an
agony. What the secret was between them will
now never be known with certainty; but it may be
surmised. Some have imagined it to be the vice
to which the King was addicted; while others have
asserted, that it related to the death of Prince
Henry, a virtuous young·man, who had held Somer-
set in especial abhorrence. The Prince died early,
unlamented by his father, and, as public opinion
whispered at the time, poisoned by Somerset. Pro-
bably, some crime or other lay heavy upon the
j 1 ' I
THE SLOW POISONERS. 387
soul of the King; and Somerset, his accomplice,
could not be brought to public execution with
safety. Hence the dreadful tortures ofJames, when
he discovered that his favourite was so deeply im-
plicated in the murder of Overbury. Every means
was taken by the agonized King to bring the pri-
soner into what was called a safe frame of mind.
He was secretly advised to plead guilty, and trust
to the clemency of the King. The same advice
was conveyed to the Countess. Bacon was in-
structed by the King to draw up a paper of all the
points of u mercy and favour" to Somerset which
might result from the evidence ; and Somerset was
again recommended to plead guilty, and promised
that no evil should ensue to him.
The Countess was first tried. She trembled and
shed tears during the reading of the indictment,
and, in a low voice, pleaded guilty. On being
asked why sentence of death should not be passed
against her, she, replied meekly, "I can much ag-
gravate, but nothing extenuate my fault. I desire
mercy, and that the lords will intercede for me with
the King." Sentence of death was passed upon
her.
Next day the Earl was brought to trial. He ap-
pears to have mist.rusted the promises ofJames, and
he pleaded not guilty. With a self-possession and
confidence, which be felt, probably; from his know-
ledge of the Kiug~s character, he rigorously cross-
examined the witnesses, and made a stubborn de-
VOL. II. z
388 THE SLOW POISONERS.
fence. Mter a trial which lasted elevenhours, he was
found guilty, and condemned to the felon's death.
Whatever may have been the secrets between
the criminal and the King, the latter, notwith-
standing his terrific oath, was afraid to sign the
death-warrant. It might, perchance, have been his
own. The Earl and Countess were committed to
the Tow.
er, where they remained for nearly fiye
years. At the end of this period, to the surprise
and scandal of the community, and the disgrace of
its chief magistrate, they both received the royal
pardon, but were ordered to reside at a distance
from the court. Having been found guilty of
felony, the estates of the Earl had become forfeited;
but James granted him out of their revenues an in-
come of 4>,0001. per annum l Shamelessness could
go no further.
Of the after life of these criminals nothing is
known, except that the love they had formerly
borne each other was changed into aversion, and
that they lived under the same roof for months
together without the interchange of a word.
The exposure of their atrocities did not put a
stop to the practice of poisoning. On the contrary,
·as we shall see hereafter, it engendered that insane
imitation which is so strange a feature ofthe human
character. James himself is supposed, with great
probability, to have fallen a victim to it. In the
notes to u Harris•s Life and Writings of James I,"
there is a good deal ofinformation on the subjeet.
THE SLOW POISONERS.
The guilt of Buckingham, although not fully e~
tablished, rests upon circumstances of suspicion
stronger than have been sufficient to lead hundreds
to the scaffold. His motives for committing the
crime are stated to have been a desire of revenge
for the coldness with which the King, in the latter
years of his reign, began to regard him ; his fear
that James intended to degrade him ; and his hope
that the great influence he possessed over the mind
of the heir-apparent would last through a new
reign, if the old one were brought to a close.
In the second volume of the " Harleian Miscel-
lany," there is a tract, entitled the "Forerunner of
Revenge," written by George Eglisham, doctor of
medicine, and one of the physicians to King James.
Harris, in quoting it, says that it is full of rancour
and prejudice. It is evidently exaggerated ; but
forms, nevertheless, a link in the chain of evidence.
Eglisham says :-" The King being sick ofan ague,
the Duke took this opportunity, when all the King's
doctors of physic were at dinner, and offered to
him a white powder to take, the which he a long
time refused ; but, overcome with his flattering im-
portunity, he took it in wine, and immediately be-
came worse and worse, falling into many swoonings
and pains, and violent fluxes of the belly, so tor-
mented, that his Majesty cried out aloud of this
white powder, ~Would to God I had never· taken
it !' " He then tells us " Of the Countess of Buck-
ingham (the Duke's mother) applying the plaister
z 2
j 1 ' I
840 THE SLOW POISONERS.
to the King's heart and breast, whereupon he grew
faint and short-breathed, and in agony. That the
physicians exclaimed, that the King was poisoned;
that Buckingham commanded them out of the
room, and committed one of them close prisoner
to his own chamber, and another to be removed
from court ; and that, after his Majesty's death, his
body and head swelled above measure; his hair,
with the skin of his head, stuck to his pillow, and
his nl_!.ils became loose on his fingers and toes."
Clarendon, who, by the way, was a partisan of the
Duke's, gives a totally different account of James's
death. He says, "It was occasioned by an ague
(after a short indisposition by the gout) which,
meeting many humours in a fat unwieldy body of
fifty-eight years old, in four or five fits carried him
out ofthe world. After whose death many scan-
dalous and libellous discourses were raised, without
the least colour or ground; as appeared upon the
strictest and most malicious examination that could
be made, long after, in a time oflicence, when no-
·body was afraid ofoffending majesty, and when pro-
secuting the highest reproaches and contumelies
against the royal family was held very meritori-
ous." Notwithstanding this confident declaration,
the world will hardly be persuaded that there was
not some truth in the rumours that were abroad.
The inquiries which were instituted were not
strict, as he asserts, and all the unconstitutional
influence of the powerful favourite was exerted to
j 1 ' I
THE SLOW POISONERS, S4l
defeat them. In the celebrated accusations brought
against Buckingham by the Earl of Bristol, the
poisoning of King James was placed last on the
list, and the pages of history bear evidence of the
summary mode in which they were, for the time,
got rid of.
The man from whom Buckingham is said to have
procured his poisons was one Dr. Lamb, a conjuror
and empiric, who, besides dealing in poisons, pre-
tended to be a fortune-teller. The popular fury,
which broke with comparative harmlessness against
his patron, was directed against this man, until
he could not appear with safety in the streets of
London. His fate was melancholy. Walking one
day in Cbeapside, disguised, as be thought, from all
observers, he was recognized by some idle boys,
who began to hoot and pelt him with rubbish,
calling out, " The poisoner ! the poisoner ! Down
with the wizard ! down with him! " A mob very
soon collected, and the Doctor took to his heels
and ran for his life. He was pursued and seized
in Wood Street, and from thence dragged by the
hair through the mire to St. Paul's Cross; the mob
beating him with sticks and stones, and calling out,
" Kill the wizard ! kill the poisoner !••
Charles I, on hearing of the riot, rode from
Whitehall to quell it ; but he arrived too late to
save the victim. Every bone in his body was
broken, and he was quite dead. Charles was ex-
cessively indignant, and fined the city six hundred
j 1 ' I
THE SLOW POISONERS.
pounds for its inability to deliver up the ring-
leaders to justice.
But it was in Italy that poisoning was most pre-
valent. From a very early period, it seems to have
been looked upon in that country as a perfectly
justifiable means of getting rid of an enemy. The
Italians of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries
poisoned their opponents with as little compunction
as an Englishman of the present day brings an
action at law against any one who has done him an
injury. The writings of contemporary authors in-
form us that, when La Spara and La Topbania
carried on their infernal trade, ladies put poison-
bottles on their dressing-tables as openly, and used
them with as little scruple upon others, as modern
dames use Eau de Cologne or lavender-water upon
themselves. So powerful is the influence of fashion,
it can even cause murder to be regarded 8s 8
venial peccadillo.
In the memoirs of the last Duke of Guise, who
made a Quixotic attempt, in 1648, to seize upon
the government of Naples, we find some curious
particulars relative to the popular feeling with re-
gard to poi11oning. A man, named Gennaro An-
nese, who, after the short and extraordinary career
of Masaniello the fisherman, bad established him-
self as a sort of captain-general of the populace,
rendered himself so obnoxious to the Duke of Guise
that the adherents of the latter determined to mur-
der him. The captain of the guard, as the Duke
THE SLOW POISONERS.
himself very coolly informs us, was requested to
undertake this office. It was suggested to him that
the poniard would be the most effectual instrument,
but the man turned up his eyes with pious horror
at the proposition. He was ready to poison Gen-
naro Annese whenever he might be called upon
to do so; but to poniard him, he said, would be
disgraceful, and unbecoming an officer of the
guards! At last poison was agreed upon, and
Augustino Molla, an attorney in the Duke's confi-
dence, brought the bottle containing the liquid to
show it to his master. The following is the Duke's
own account:-
" Augustino came to me at night, and told me :
~I have brought you something which will free you
from Gennaro. He deserves death, and it is no
great matter after what fashion justice is done
upon him. Look at this vial, full of clear and
beautiful water : in four days' time, it will punish
all his treasons. The captain of the guard has
undertaken to give it him; and as it has no taste
at all, Gennaro will suspect nothing.'"
The Duke further informs us that the dose was
duly administered; but that Gennaro, fortunately
for himself, ate nothing for dinner that day but
cabbage dressed with oil, which acting as an anti-
dote, caused him to vomit profusely, and saved his
life. He was exceedingly ill for five days, but
never suspected that he had been poisoned.
In process of time, poison vending became a pro-
THE SLOW POISONERS.
fitable trade. Eleven years after this period, it
was carried on at Rome to such an extent that
the sluggish government was roused to interfer-
ence. Beckmann, in his u History of Inventions,,
and Lebret, in his " Magazin zum Gebrauche der
Staaten Kirche Geschichte," or Magazine of Ma-
terials for a History of a State Church, relates
that, in the year 1659, it was made known to Pope
Alexander VII. that great numbers of young wo-
men had avowed in the confessional that they had
poisoned their husbands with slow poisons. The
Catholic clergy, who in general hold the secrets
of the confessional so sacred, were shocked and
alarmed at the extraordinary prevalence of the
crime. Although they refrained from revealing
the names of the penitents, they conceived them-
selves bound to apprise the head of the church of
the enormities that were practised. It was also
the subject of general conversation in Rome that
young widows were unusually abundant. It was
remarked, too, that if any couple lived unhappily
together, the husband soon took ill and died. The
papal authorities, when once they began to inquire,
soon learned that a society of young wives had
been formed, and met nightly, for some mysterious
purpose, at the house of an old woman named
Hieronyma Spara. This hag was a reputed witch
and fortune-teller, and acted as president of the
young viragos, several of whom, it was afterwards
ascertained, belonged to the first families of Rome.
THE SLOW POISONERS. 8~5
In order to have positive evidence of the prac-
tices of this female conclave, a lady was employed
by the Government to seek an interview with them.
She dressed herself out in the most magnificent
style; and having been amply provided with mo-
ney, she found but little difficulty, when she had
stated her object, of procuring an audience of
La Spara and her sisterhood. She pretended to
be in extreme distress of mind on account of the
infidelities and ill-treatment of her husband, and
implored La Spara to furnish her with a few drops
of the wonderful elixir, the efficacy of which in
sending cruel husbands to ,. their last long sleep''
was so much vaunted by the ladies of Rome. La
Spara fell into the snare, and sold her some of her
u drops," at a price commensurate with the sup-
posed wealth of the purchaser.
The liquor thus obtained was subjected to an
analysis, and found to be, as was suspected, a slow
poison - clear, tasteless, and limpid, like that
spoken of by the Duke of Guise. Upon this evi-
dence the house was surrounded by the police, and
La Spara and her companions taken into custody.
La Spara, who is described as having been a little,
ugly, old woman, was put to the torture, but ob-
stinately refu_sed to confess her guilt. Another of
the women, named La Gratiosa, had less firmness,
and laid bare all the secrets of the infernal sister-
hood. Taking a confession, extorted by anguish on
the rack, at its true value (nothing at all), there
S46 THE SLOW POISONERS.
is still sufficient evidence to warrant posterity in
the belief of their guilt. They were found guilty,
and condemned, according to their degrees of cul-
pability, to various punishments. La Spara, Gra-
tiosa, and three young women., who had poisoned
their husbands., were hanged together at Rome.
Upwards of thirty women were whipped publicly
through the streets ; and several, whose high rank
screened them from more degrading punishment,
were banished from the country, and mulcted in
heavy fines. In a few months afterwards, nine
women more were hanged for poisoning 9 and an-
other bevy, including many young and beautiful
girls, were whipped half naked through the streets
of Rome.
This severity did not put a stop to the practice,
and jealous wop1en and avaricious men, anxious to
step into the inheritance offathers, uncles, or bro-
thers, resorted to poison. As it was quite free
from taste, colour, and smell, it was administered
without exciting suspicion. The skilful vendors
compounded it of different degrees of strength.,
so that the poisoners had only to say whether they
wanted their victims to die in a week, a month,
or six months, and they were suited with corre-
sponding doses. The vendors were chiefly women.
of whom the most celebrated was a hag, named
Tophania, who was in this way accessory to the
death of upwards of six hundred persons. This
woman appears to have been a dealer in poisons
•
THE SLOW POISONERS. S47
from her girlhood, and resided first at Palermo
and then at Naples. That entertaining traveller.
Father Lebat, has given, in his Letters from Italy,
many curious particulars ~elating to her. When
he was at Civita Vecchia, In 1719, the Viceroy of
Naples discovered that poison was extensively sold
in the latter city, and that it went by the name
of aqueta, or little-water. On making further in-
quiry, he ascertained that Tophania (who was
by this time near seventy years of age, and who
seems to have begun her evil courses very soon
after the execution of La Spara) sent large quan-
tities of it to all parts of Italy in small vials, with
the inscription 11
Manna of St. Nicholas of Barri."
The tomb of St. Nicholas of Barri was celebrated
throughout Italy. A miraculous oil was said to
ooze from it, which cured nearly all the maladies
that flesh is heir to, provided the recipient made
use of it with the due degree ofjaith. La Topha-
nia artfully gave this name to her poison to elude
the ~igilance of the custom-house officers, who, in
common with everybody else, had a pious respect
for St. Nicholas de Barri and his wonderful oil.
The poison was similar to that manufactured
by La Spara. Hahnemann the physician, and
father of the homrepathic doctrine, writing upon
this subject, says it was compounded of arsenical
neutral salts, occasioning in the victim a gradual
loss of appetite, faintness, gnawing pains in the
stomach, loss ·of strength, and wasting of the lungs.
848 THE SLOW POISONERS.
The Abbe Gagliardi says that a few drops of it
were generally poured into tea, chocolate, or soup,
and its effects were slow, and almost imperceptible.
Garelli, physician to the Emperor of Austria, in a
letter to Hoffmann, says it was crystallized arsenic,
•
dissolved in a large quantity of water by decoc-
tion, with the addition (for some unexplained pur-
pose) of the herb C!Jmhalaria. The Neapolitans
called it Aqua Tojfnina; and it became notorious
all over Europe under the name of Aqua Tophania.
Although this woman carried on her infamous
traffic so extensively, it was extremely difficult to
meet with her. She lived in continual dread of
discovery. She constantly changed her name and
residence ; and pretending to be a person of great
godliness, resided in monasteries for months to-
gether. Whenever she was ' more than usually
apprehensive of detection, she sought ecclesiastical
protection. She was soon apprised of the search
made for her by the Viceroy of Naples, and, ac-
cording to her practice, took refuge in a monastery.
Either the search after her was not very rigid, or
her measures were exceedingly well taken ; for she
contrived to elude the vigilance of the authorities
for several years. What is still more extraordi-
nary, as showing the ramifications of her system,
her trade was still carried on to as great an ex-
tent as before. Lebat informs us that she had so
great a sympathy for poor wives who hated their
husbands and wanted to get rid of them, but could
j 1 ' I
THE SLOW POISONERS. 849
not aft'ord to buy her wonderful aqua, that she
made them presents of it.
She was not allowed, however, to play at this
game for ever ; she was at length discovered in
a nunnery, and her retreat cut off. The Viceroy
made several representations to the superior to
deliver her up, but without effect. The abbess,
supported by the archbishop of the diocese, con-
stantly refused. The public curiosity was in con-
sequence so much excited at the additional im-
portance thus thrust upon the criminal, that thou-
sands of persons visited the nunnery in order to
catch a glimpse of her.
The patience of the Viceroy appears to have
been exhausted by these delays. Being a man of
sense, and not a very zealous Catholic, he deter-
mined that even the Church should not shield a
criminal so atrocious. Setting the privileges of
the nunnery at defiance, he sent a troop of sol-
diers, who broke over the walls and carried her
away vi et armis. The Archbishop, Cardinal Pig-
natelli, was highly indignant, and threatened to
excommunicate and lay the whole city under inter-
dict. All the inferior clergy, animated by the
esprit du corps, took up the question, and so w<>rked
upon the superstitious and bigoted people, that
they were ready to rise in a mass to storm the
palace of the Viceroy and rescue the prisoner.
These were serious difficulties; but the Viceroy
was not a man to be daunted. Indeed, he seems to
360 THE SLOW POISONERS.
have acted throughout with a rare union of astute-
ness, coolness, and energy. To avoid the evil con-
sequences of the threatened excommunication, he
placed a guard rou~ the palace of the Archbishop,
judging that the latter would not be so foolish as
to launch out an anathema which would cause the
city to be starved, and himself in it. The market-
people would not have dared to come to the city
with provisions, so long as it remained under the
ban. There would have been too much inconve-
nience to himself and his ghostly brethren in such
a measure ; and, as the Viceroy anticipated, the
good Cardinal reserved his thunders for some other
occasion.
Still there was the populace. To quiet their
clamour and avert the impending insurrection, the
agents of the government adroitly mingled with
the people, and spread abroad a report that To-
phania had poisoned all the wells and fountains of
the city. This was enough. The popular feeling
turned against her immediately. Those who, but
a moment before, had looked upon her as a saint,
now reviled her as a devil, and were as eager for
her punishment as they had before been for her
escape. Tophania was then put to the torture.
She confessed the long catalogue of her crimes, and
named all the persons who had employed her. She
was shortly afterwards strangled, and her corpse
thrown over the wall into the garden ofthe convent,
from whence she had been taken. This appears to
THE SLOW POISONERS. 861
have been done to conciliate the clergy, by allow-
ing them, at least, the burial of one who had taken
refuge within their precincts.
After her death the mania for poisoning seems to
have abated ; but we have yet to see what hold it
took upon the French people at a somewhat earlier
period. So rooted had it become in France be-
tween the years 1670 and 1680, that Madame de
Sevigne, in one of her letters, expresses her fear
that Frenchman and poisoner would become syn-
onymous terms.
As in Italy, the first notice the government re-
ceived of the prevalence of this crime was given by
the clergy, to whom females of high rank, and some
among the middle and lower classes, had avowed
in the confessional that they had poisoned their
husbands. In consequence ofthese disclosures, two
Italians, named Exili and Glaser, were arrested;
and thrown into the Bastille, on the charge of com-
pounding and selling the drugs used for these mur-
ders. Glaser died in prison, but Exili remained
without trial for several months ; and there, shortly
afterwards, be made the acquaintance of another
prisoner, named Sai~te Croix, by whose example
the crime was still further disseminated among the
French people.
The most notorious of the poisoners that de-
rived their pernicious Knowledge from this man
was Madame de Brinvilliers, a young woman con-
nected both by birth and marriage with some of
j 1 ' I
352 THE SLOW POISONERS.
the noblest families of France. She seems, from
her very earliest years, to have been heartless and
depraved ; and, if we may believe her own con-
fession, was ·steeped in wickedness ere she had well
entered her teens. She was, however, beautiful and
accomplished; and, in the eye of the world, seemed
exemplary and kind. Guyot de Pitaval, in the
"Causes Celebres," and Madame de Sevigne, in
her Letters, represent her as mild and agreeable in
her manners, and offering no traces on her coun-
ten~nce of the evil soul within. She was married
in 1651 to the Marquis de Brinvilliers, with whom
she lived unhappily for some years. He was a
loose dissipated character, and was the means of
introducing Sainte Croix to his wife, a man who
cast a blight upon her life, and dragged her on
from crime to crime till her offences became so
great that the mind shudders to dwell upon them.
For this man she conceived a guilty passion, to
gratify which she plunged at once into the gulf of
sin. She was drawn to its most loathsome depths
ere retribution o'Vertook her.
She bad as yet shown a fair outside to the world,
and found but little difficulty in effecting a legal
separation from her husband, who had not the art
to conceal his vices. The proceeding gave great
offence to her family. She appears, after this, to
have thrown oft'the mask completely, and carried
on her intrigues so openly with her lover, Sainte
Croix, that her father, M. D'Aubray, scandalised at
TilE SLOW POISONERs: 358
her conduct, procured a lett1:e de cachet, and had
him imprisoned in the Bastille for a twelvemonth.
Sainte Croix, who had been in Italy, was a dabbler-
in poisons. He knew something of the secrets of
the detestable La Spara, and improved himself in
them from the instructions of Exili, with whom he
speedily contracted a sort of friendship. By him
he was shown how to prepare, not only the liquid
poisons employed in Italy, but that known as suc-
cesswn powder, which afterwards became so cele-
brated in France. Like his mistress, he appeared
amiable, witty, and intelligent) and showed no signs
to the.world of the two iierce passions, revenge and
avarice, which were gnawing at his heart. Both
these passions were to be sated on the unfortunate
family of D'Aubray ; his revenge, because they had
imprisoned him; and his avariceJbecause they were
rich. Reckless and extravagant, he was always in
want of money, and he bad no one to supply him
but Madame de Brinvilliers, whose own portion
was far from sufficient to satisfy his need. Groan-
ing to think that any impediment should stand
between him and wealth, he conceived the horrid
idea of poisoning M. D'Aubray her father, and
her two brothers, that she might inherit the pro-
perty. Three murders were nothing to such a vil-
lain. . He communicated his plan to Madame de
Brinvilliers ; and she, without the sJighest scruple,
agreed to aid him : he undertook to compound the
poisons, and she to administer them. The zeal and
VOL. ll,
j 1 ' I
354 THE SLOW P.OlSONERS.
alacrity with which she set to work seem hardly cre-
dible. Sainte Croix found her an apt scholar; and
she soon became RB expert as himself in the manu-
facture of poisons. To try the s.trength of the first
doses, she used -to administer them to dogs, rabbits,
and pigeons. Afterwards, wishing to be more.cer-
tain of their effects, she went round to the hos·
pitals, and administered them to the sick poor in
the soups which she brought in apparent charity.•
None of the poisons were intended to kill at the
first dose ; so that she could try them once upon an
individual without fear of murder. She tried the
same atrocious experiment upon the guests at her
father's table, by poisoning a pigeon·pie I To be
more certain still, she next poisoned herself! When
convin~ed by this desperate essay of the potency of
the draught, she procured an antidote from Sainte
Croix, and all doubts being removed, commenced
operations upon her grey-headed father. She ad·
ministered the first dose with her own bands, in his
chocolate. The poison worked well. The old man
· was taken ill, and his daughter, apparently full
of tenderness and anxiety, watched by his bedside.
The next day she gave him some broth, which she
recommended as highly nourishing. This also waa
• This ia denied by Voltaire in his« Age of Louis XIVf' but
he does not state for what reason. His words are, "TI est faux
qu'elle eut etisaye aea poisons dana lea Mpitaux, conime le disait
le peuple et comme i1 eat ecrit dans lea ' Causes Celebres,' OUVDlfll'
d'un avocat sans cause et fait pour le peuple."
THE SLOW POISONERS. 355
poisoned. In this manner she gradually wore out
his frame, and in less than ten days he was a
corpse ! His death seemed so much the result of
disease, that no suspicions were excited.
When the two brothers arrived from the pro-
vinces to render the last sad duties to their sire,
they found their sister as grieved, to all outward
appearance, as even filial afFection could desire :
but the young mea only came to perish. They
stood between Sainte Croix and the already half-
clutched gold, and their doom was sealed. A
man, named La Chaussee, was hired by Sainte
Croix to aid in administering the poisons ; and, in
less than six weeks' time, they bad both gone to
their long home.
Suspicion was now excited; but so cautiously
had all been done, that it found no one upon .whom
to attach itself. The Marquise had a sister, and she.
was entitled, by the death of her relatives, to half
the property. Less than the whole would not
satisfy Sainte Croix, and he determined that she
s.hould die the same deatb as her father and bro-
thers. She was too·distrustful, however; and, by
quitting Paris, she escaped the destruction that wa1
lurking for her.
The Marquise had undertaken these murders to
please her lover. She was now anxious to per-.
petrate another on her own account. She wished
to marry Sainte Croix ; but, though separated from
her husband, she was not divorced. She thought.it
2A2
856 THE SLOW POISONERS.
would be easier to poison him than to apply to the
tribunals for a divorce, which might, perhaps, be
refused. But Sainte Croix bad no longer any love
for his guilty instrument. Bad men do not admire
others who are as bad as themselves. Though a
villain himself, he bad no desire to marry one, and
was not at all anxious for the death ofthe Marquis.
He seemed, however, to enter into the plot, and
supplied her with poison for her husband : but he
took care to provide a remedy. La Brinvilliers
poisoned him one day, and Sainte Croix gave him
an antidote the next. In this manner he was buf·
fetted about between them for some time, and
finally escaped with a ruined constitution and a
broken heart.
But the day ofretribution was at hand, and a ter-
rible mischance brought the murders to light. The
nature of the poisons compounded by Sainte Croix
was so deadly, that, when working in his labota-
tory, he was obliged 'to wear a mask, to preserve
himselffrom suffocation. One day, the mask slipped
off, and the miserable wretch perished in his crimes.
His corpse was found, on the following morning,
in the obscure lodging where he had fitted up his
laboratory. As be appeared to be without friends
or relatives, the police took possession ofhis effects.
Among other things was found a small box, .to
which was affixed the following singular docu-
ment:-
THE SLOW POISONERS. 357
"I humbly beg, that those into whose hands .this
box may faU, will do me the favour to deliver it
into the hands only .of the Marchioness de Brin·
villiers, who resides in the Rue Neuve St. Paul, as
everything it contains concerns her, and belongs to
her alone; and as, besides, there is nothing in it
that can be of use to any person but her. In case
she shall be dead before me, it is my wish that it be
burned, with everything it contains, without open-
ing or altering anything. In order that no one
may plead ignorance, I swear by the God that I
adore, and by all that is held most sacred, that
I assert nothing but the truth : and if my inten-
tions, just and reasonable as they are, be thwarted
in this point by any persons, I charge their con-
sciences with it, both in this world and that which
is to come, in order that 1 may unload mine. I
protest that. this is my last will. Done at Paris,
the 25th of May, 1672.
, (Signed) SAINTE CRoix."
This earnest solicitation, instead of insuring re-
spect as was intended, excited curiosity. The box
was opened, and found to contain some papers, and
several vials and powders. The latter were banded
to a chemist for analysis, and the documents were
retained by the police, and opened. Among them
was found a promissory note of the Marchioness de
Briuvilliers, for thirty thousand francs, to the order
of Sainte Croix. The other papers were of greater
j 1 ' I
358 TilE SLOW POISONERS.
importance, as they implicated both her and her ser-
vant, La Chauss~..in the recent murders. As soon
as she was informed of the death of Sainte Croix,
abe made an attempt to gain possession of his
papers and the box ; but, being refused, she aaw
that there was no time to be lost, and immediately
quitted. Next morning the police were on her
trail; but she succeeded in escaping to England.
La Chaussee was not so fortunate. Altogether ig-
norant of the fatal mischance which bad brought
his villanies to light, he did not dream of danger.
He was arrested and brought to trial : being put to
the torture, he confessed that he had adminiatered
poison to the Messieurs d'Aubray, and that he had
received a hundred pistoles, and the promise of an
annuity for life, from Sainte Croix and Madame de
Brinvillien, for the job. He was condemned to be
broken alive on the wheel, and the Marchioness
was, by default, sentenced to be beheaded. He was
executed accordingly, in March 1678, on the Place
de Greve, in Paris.
La Brinvilliers appears to have resided for nearly
three years in England. Early in 1676, thinking
that the rigour of putsuit was over, and that she
might venture to return to the Continent, abe pro-
ceeded secretly to Liege. Notwithstanding her
care, the French authorities were soon apprised of
her return; and arrangements were promptly made
with the municipality af that city, to permit the
agents of the French police to anest her within the
THE SLOW POISONERS. S59
limits of their jurisdiction. Desgrais, an officer of
~he marechaus8ee, accordingly )eft Paris for that
purpose. On his arrival in Liege, he found that
she had sought shelter within the walls of a con-
vent. Here the arm of the law, long as it is said
to be, could not reach her : but Desgrais was not a
man to be baftled, and he resorted to stratagem to
accomplish what force could not. Having disguised
himself as a priest, he sought admission to the con-
vent, and obtai~ed an interriew with La Brinvil-
liers. l{e said, that being a Frenchman, and pass-
ing through Liege, he could not leave that city
without paying a visit to a lady whose beauty-and
misfor.tunes were so celebrated. Her vanity was
flattered by the compliment. Desgrais saw, to use
a vulgar but forcible expression, ''that he~had got
on tlie blind side ofher ;" and he adroitly continued
to pour out the language of love and admiration,
till the deluded Marchioness was thrown completely
oft' her guard. She agreed, without much ·solicit-
ation, to meet him outside the walls of the convent,
where their amorous intrigue might be carried on
more conveniently than within. Faithful to her
appointment with her supposed new lover, she came,
and found herself, not in the embrace of a gallant,
but in the custody of a policeman. ·
Her trial was not long delayed. The proofs
against her were abundant. The dying declaration
of La Chaussee would have been alone enough to
convict her; but besides that, there were the rnys-
860 THE SLOW POISONERS.
terious document attached to the box of St. Croix ;
her Bight from France·; and, strong~r and more
damning proof than all, a paper, in her own hand-
writing, found among the effects of St. Croix, in
which she detailed to him the misdeeds of her life,
and spoke of the murder of her father and bro-
thers, in terms that left no doubt of her guilt.
During the tria], ali Paris was in commotion. La
Brinvilliers was the only subject of conversation.
AH the details of her crimes were published, and
greedily devoured ; and the idea of secret poisoning
was first put into the heads of hundreds, who after-
wards became guilty of it.
On the 16th of July 1676, the Superior Crimi-
nal Court of Paris pronounced a verdict of guilty
against her, for the murder of her father and bro-
thers, and the attempt upon the life of her sister.
She was condemned to be drawn on a hurdle, with
her feet bare, a rope about her neck, and a burning
torch in her hand, to the great entrance of the
cathedral of Notre Dame; where she was to make
·the amende honorable, in sight of all the people ; to
be taken from thence to the Place de Greve, and
there to be beheaded. Her body was afterwards to
be bumed, and her ashes scattered to the winds.
After her sentence, she made a full confes~ion of
her guilt. She seems to have looked upon death
without fear; but it was recklessness, not courage,
that supported her. Madame de Sevigne says, that
when on the hurdle, on her way to the scaffold, she
THE SLOW POISONERS. 861
entreated her confessor to exert his influence with
the executioner to place himself next to her, that
his body might hide from her view 6
' that scoun-
drel, Desgrais, who had entrapped her!' She also
asked the ladies, who bad been drawn to their win-
dows to witness the procession, what they were
looking at 1 adding, "a pretty sight you have
come to see, truly I" She laughed when on the
scaffold, dying as she had lived, impenitent and
heartless. On the morrow, the populace came in
crowds to collect her ashes, to preserve them as
relics. She was regarded as a martyred saint, and
her ashes were supposed to be endowed, by Divine
grace, with the power of curing all diseases. Popu-
lar folly has often canonised persons whose pre-
tensions to sanctity were extremely equivocal; bot
the disgusting folly of the multitude, in this in-
stance, has never been surpassed.
Before her death, proceedings were instituted
against M. de Penautier, treasurer of the province
of Languedoc, and Receiver-general for the clergy,
who was accused by a lady, named St. Laurent, of
having poisoned her husband, the late Receiver-ge-
neral, in order to obtain his appointment. The
circumstances of this case were never divulged, and
the greatest influence was exerted to prevent it
from going to trial. He was known to have been
intimate with Sainte Croix and Madame de Brinvil-
liers, and was thought to have procured his poisons
from them. The latter, however, refused to say
861 THE SLOW POISONERS.
anything which wight implicate him. The inquiry
was eventually stifled, after Penautier had been
several months in the.Bastille.
The Cardinal de Boozy was accused by the gos-
sips of the day of being an accomplice of Penau-
tier. The Cardinal's estates were burthened with
the payment of several heavy annuities ; but, about
the time that poisoning became so fashionable, aU
the annuitants died off, one after the other. The
Cardinal, in talking of these annuitants, afterwards
used to Bfr!, ,, Thanks to my star, I have outlived
them aU !" A wit, seeing him and Penautier riding
in the same carriage, cried out, in allusion to this
expression, " There go the Cardinal de Boozy and
his 1tar !"
It was now that the mania for poisoning be-
gan to take hoM of the popular mind. From this
time until the year 1682, the prisons of France
teemed with persons accused of this crime ; and
it is very singular, that other offences decreased
in a similar proportion. We have already seen
the extent to which it was carried in Italy. It
was, if' possible, surpassed in France. The dia-
bolical ease with which these murders could be
effected, by means of these. scentless and taste-
less poisons, enticed the evil-minded. Jealousy,
revenge, avarice, even petty spite, alike resorted to
them. Those who would have been deterred, by
fear of detection, from using the pistol or the dag-
ger, or even strong doses of poison, which kill at
THE SLOW POISONERS. 868
once, employed slow poisons without dread. The
corrupt Government of the day, although it could
wink at the atrocities of a wealthy and influential
courtier, like Penautier, was scandalised to see the
crime spreading among the people. Disgrace was,
in fact, entailed, in the eyes of Europe, upon the
name of Frenchman. Louis XIV, to put a stop
t~ the evil, instituted what was called the Cham...
bre Ardente, or Burning Chamber, with extensive
powers, for the trial and punishment of the prison-
ers.
Two women, especially, made themselves noto-
rious at this time, and were instrumental to the
deaths· of hundreds of individuals. They both re-
sided in Paris, and were named Lavoisin and La-
vigoreux. Like Spara and Tophania, of whom they
were imitators, they chiefly sold their poisons to
women who wanted to get rid of their husbands;
and, in some few instances, to husbands who wanted
to get rid of their wives. Their ostensible occupa-
tion was that of midwives. They also pretended
to be fortune-tellers, and were visited by persons of
every class of society. The rich and poor thronged
alike to their mansardes, to learn the secrets of the
future. Their prophecies were principally of death.
They foretold to women the approaching dissolu-
tion of husbands, and to needy heirs, the end of
rich relatives, who had made them, as Byron ex-
presses it, u wait too, too long already." They
generally took care to be instrumental in fulfilling
364 THE SLOW POISONERS.
their own predictions. They used to tell their
wretched employers, that so'Ine sign of the ap-
proaching death would take place in the house,
such as the breaking of glass or china ; and they
paid servants considerable fees to cause a breakage,
as if by accident, exactly at the appointed time.
Their occupation as midwives made them acquaint-
ed with the secrets of many families, which they
afterwards turned to dreadful account.
It is not known how long they had carried on
this awful trade before they were discovered. De-
tection finaUy overtook them at the close of the
year 1679. They were botlJ tried, found guilty,
and burned alive on tfte Place de Greve, on the
22nd of February, 1680, after their hands had been
bored through with a red-hot iron, and then cut
off. Their numerous accomplices in Paris and in
the provinces were also discovered and brought to
trial. According to some authors, thirty, and to
others, fifty of them, chiefly women, were hanged
in the principal cities.
Lavoisin kept a list of the visiters who came to
her house to purchase poisons. This paper was
seized by the police on her arrest, and examined by
the tribunals. Among the names were found those
of the Marshal de Luxembourg, the Countess de
Soissons, and the Duchess de Bouillon. The Mar-
shal seems only to have bee~ guilty of a piece of
discreditable folly in visiting a woman of this de-
scription, but the popular voice at the time im-
j 1 ' I
THE SLOW POISONERS. 865
puted to him something more than folly. The
author of the u Memoirs of the Affairs of Eu-
rope since the Peace of Utrecht," says, u The
miserable gang who dealt in poison. and prophecy
alleged that he had sold himself to the devil, and
that a young girl of the name of Dupin had been
poisoned by his means. Among other stories, they
said he had made a contract with the devil, in
order to marry his son to the daughter of the
Marquis of Louvois. To this atrocious and absurd
accusation the Marshal, who had surrendered him-
self at the Bastille on the first accusation against
him, replied with the mingled sentiment of pride
and innocence, ' When Mathieu de Montmorenci,
my ancestor, married the widow of Louis le Gros,
be did not have recourse to the devil, but to the
States-General, in order to obtain for the minor
king the support of the house of Montmorenci.'
This brave man was imprisoned in a cell six feet
and a half long; and his trial, which was inter-
rupted for several weeks, lasted altogether four-
teen months. No judgment was pronounced upon
him."
The Countess of Soissons fled to Brussels, rather
than undergo the risk of a trial ; and was never
able to clear herself from the sti~a that attached
to her, of having made an attempt to poison the
Queen of Spain by doses of succession powder.
The Duchess of Bouillon was arrested, and tried
by the Chambre Ardente. It would appear, how-
j 1 ' I
S66 THE SWW POISONERS.
ever, that she bad nothing to do with the slow
· poisons, but bad merely endeaYoured to pry into
the secrets of futurity, and gratify her curiosity
with a sight of the devil. One of the presidents
of the Chambre, La Reynie, an ugly little old
man, very seriously asked her whether she had
really seen the devil; to which the lady replied,
looking him full in the face, u Oh yes t I see him
now. He is in the form of a little ugly old
man, exceedingly illnatured, and is dressed in the
robes of a counsellor of State." M. la Reynie pru·
dently refrained from asking any more questions
of a lady with so sharp and ready .a tongue.
The Duchess was imprisoned for se~eral months
in the Bastile ; and nothing being proved against
her, she was rele~ed at the intercession of h~r
powerful friends. The severe punishment of cri-
minals of this note might have helped to abate
the fever of imitation among the vulgar ;-their
comparative impunity bad a contrary tendency.
The escape of Penautier, and the wealthy Cardinal
de Bonzy his employer, had the most pernicious
effect. For two years longer the crime continued
to rage, and was not finally suppressed till the
stake had blazed, or the noose dangled, for up-
wards of a hundred individuals.
867
'
HAUNTED HOUSES.
Here'a a knocking indeed ! • • • • knock! knockl knock I
• • • • • • Who 'a there, i' the name o' Beelzebub1
• * • Who'a there, i' the devil's name 1 Knock! knock l
knock I- Never at quiet1
WHO has not either seen or heard of some house,
shut up and uninhabitable, fallen into decay, and
looking dwty and dreary, from which, at midnight,
strange sounds have been heard to issue-aerial
knockings- the rattling of chains, and the groan-
ing of perturbed spirits?-a house that people
have thought it unsafe to pass after dark, and
which baa remained for years without a tenant,
and which no tenant would occupy, even were he
paid to do so ? There are hundreds of such houses
in England at the present day; hundreds in France,
Germany, and almost every country of Europe,
which are marked with the mark of fear- places
for the timid to avoid, and the pious to bless them-
selves at, and ask protection from, as they pass-·
the abodes of ghosts and evil spirits. There are
/
868 HAUNTED HOUSES.
many such houses in London; and if any vain
boaster of the march of intellect would but take
the trouble to find them out and count them, he
would be convinced that intellect must yet make
some enormous strides before such old superstitions
can be eradicated.
The idea that such houses exist is a remnant
of the witch creed, which merits separate notice
from its comparative harmlessness, and from its
being not so much a madness as a folly of the
people. Unlike other notions that sprang from
the belief in witchcraft, and which we have already
dwelt upon at sufficient length, it has sent no -
wretches to the stake or the gibbet, and but a
few to the pillory only.
Many houses have been condemned as haunted,
and avoided by the weak and credulous, from cir-
cumstances the most trifling in themselves, and
which only wanted a vigorous mind to clear up,
at once, and dissipate all alarm. A house in Aix-
la-Chapelle, a large desolate-looking building, re-
mained uninhabited for five years, on account of the
mysterious knockings that there were heard within
it at all hours ofthe day and night. Nobody could
account for the noises; and the fear became at last
so excessive, that the persons who inhabited the
houses on either side relinquished their tenancy,
and went to reside in other quarters of the town,
where there was less chance of interruption from
HAUNTED HOUSES. 869
evil spirits. From being so long without an in-
habitant the house at last grew so ruinous, so dingy,
and so miserable in its outward appearance, and so
like the place that ghosts might be supposed to
haunt, that few persons cared to go past it after
sunset. The knocking that was heard in one of
the upper rooms was not very loud, but it was
very regular. The gossips of the neighbourhood
asserted that they often heard groans from the
cellars, and saw lights moved about from one win-
dow to another immediately after the midnight bell
had tolled. Spectres in white habiliments were
reported to have gibed and chattered from the
windows ; but all these stories could bear no il.l-
vestigation. The knocking, however, was a fact
which no ~ne could dispute, and several ineffectual
attempts were made by the proprietor to discover
the cause. The rooms were sprinkled with holy
water- the evil spirits were commanded in du~
form, by a priest~ to depart thence to the Red Sea ;
but the knockings still continued, in spite of all
that could be done in that way. Accident at last
discovered the cause, and restored tranquillity to
the neighbourhood. . The proprietor, who suffered
not only in his mind but in his pocket, had sold
the building at a ruinously small price, to get
rid of all future annoyance. The new proprietor
was standing in a room on the' first fioor when
he heard the door driven to at the bottom with
VOL. II. 2B
370 HAUNTED HO(JSES.
a considerable noise, and then fly open immedi-
ately, about two inches and no more. He stood
atill a minute and watched, and the saine thing
occurred a second and a third time. He examined
the d~or attentively, and all the _
mystery was un-
ravelled. The latch of the door was broken so
that it could not be fastened, and it swung chiefly
upon the bottom hinge. Immediately opposite was
a window, in which one pane of glass was broken ;
and when tbe wind was in a certain quarter, the
draught of air was so strong that it blew the.door
to with some violence. There being no latch, it
swung open again ; and when there was a fresh
gust, waa again blown to. The new proprietor
lost no time in sending for a glazier, and the
mysterious noises ceaaed for ever. The house was
replastered and repainted, and once more regained
its lost good name. It was not before two or three
years, however, that it was thoroughly established
in popular favour ; and many persons, even then,
would always avoid passing it, if they could reach
their destination by any other street.
A similar story is narrated by Sir Walter Scott,
in his Letters on Demonology and Witchcraft, the
hero of which was a gentleman of birth and dis-
tinction, well known in the political world. Shortly
after he succeeded to his title and estates, there
was a rumour among the servants concerning a
strange noise that used to be beard at night in
(.1 I I
HAUNTED HOUSBS. 871
the fam~y mansion, and the cause of which no
one could ascertain. The gentleman resolved to
discover it himself, and to watch for that pur-.
pose with a domestic who had grown old in the
family, and who, like the rest, had whispered
strange things .about the knocking having begun
immediately upon the death of his old master.
These two watched until the noise was, heard, and
at last traced it to a small store,.rooni, used as a
place for keeping provisions .of various kinds for
the family, and of which the old butler had the
key. They entered this place, and remained for
some time, without hearing the noises which they
had traced thither. At length the sound was
heard, but much lower than it seemed to be while
they were further off, and their imaginations were
more excited. They then discovered the cause
without difficulty. A rat, caught in an old-fa-
shioned trap, had occasioned the noise by its
efforts to escape, in which it was able to raise the
trap-door of its prison to a certain height, but
was then obliged to drop it. The noise of the
fall resounding through the house had occasioned
the mysterious rumours, which, but for the investi..
gation of the proprietor, would, in all probability,
have acquired so bad a name for the dwe~ling that
no servants would have inhabited it. The circum-
stance was told to Sir Walter Scott by the gentl~
man to whom it happened.
j 1 ' I
87i HAUNTED HOUSES.
But, in general, houses that have acquired this
character, have been more indebted for it, to the
roguery of Jiving men, than to accidents like these.
Six monks played ofF a clever trick of the kind
upon that worthy King, Louis, whose piety has
procured him, in the annals of his .own country,
the designation of "the Saint." Having heard his
confessor speak in terms of warm eulogy of the
goodness and learning of the monks of the order
of Saint Bruno, he expressed his wish to establish
a community of them near Paris. Bernard de la
Tour, the superior, sent six of the brethren, and
the King gave them a handsome house to live
in, in the village of Chantilly. It so happened
that, from their windows, they had a very fine view
of the ancient palace of Vauvert, which had been
built for a royal residence by King Robert, but
deserted for many years. The worthy monks
thought the palace would just suit them, but their
modesty was so excessive that they were ashamed
to ask the King for a grant of it in due form.
This difficulty was not to be overcome, and the
monks set their ingenuity to work to discover
another plan. The palace of Vauvert had never
laboured under any imputation upon its character
until they became its neighbours ; but, somehow
or other, it almost immediately afterwards began
to acquire a bad name. Frightful shrieks were
heard to proceed from it at night- blue, red, and
HAUNTED UOUSES. S78
green lights were suddenly observed to glimmer
from the windows, and as suddenly to disappear :
the clanking of chains was heard, and the howling
as of persons in great pain. These disturbances
continued for several months, to the great terror
of all the country round, and even ofthe pious King
Louis, to whom, at Paris, all the rumours were
regularly carried, with whole heaps of additions,
that accumulated on the way. At last a great
spectre, clothed all in pea-green, with a long white
beard and a serpent's tail, took his station regu-
larly at midnight in the principal window of the
palace, and howled fearfully and shook his fists
at the passengers. The six monks of Chantilly,
to whom all these things were duly narrated, were
exceedingly wroth that the devil should play such
antics right opposite their dwelling, and hinted to
the commissioners, sent down by Saint Louis to
investigate the matter, that, if they were allowed
to inhabit the palace, they would very soon make
a clearance of the evil spirits. The King was quite
charmed with their piety, and expressed to them
how grateful he felt for their disinterestedness. A
deed was forthwith drawn up- the royal sign-
manual was affixed to it, and the palace of Vauvert
became the property of the monks of Saint Bruno.
The deed is dated in 1259.• The disturbances
ceased immediately- the lights disappeared, and
• Garinet. Hiatoire de Ia Magie en France, page 15.
j 1 ' I
874 HAUNTED HOUSES.
the green ghost (so said the monks) was laid at rest
for ever under the waves of the Red Sea.
In, the year 1580, one Gilles Blacre had taken
the lease of a house in the suburbs of Tours, but
repenting him of his bargain with the landlord,
Peter Piquet, he endeavoured to prevail upon him
.t.
o cancel the agreement. Peter, however, was
satisfied with his tenant and his terms, and would
listen to no compromise. Very shortly afterwards,
the rumour was spread all over Tours t~at the
house of Gilles Blacre was haunted. Gilles him-
self asserted tbat he verily believed· his bouse to
be the general rendezvous of all the witches and
evil spirits of France. The noise they made was
awful, and quite prevented him from sleeping.
They knocked against the wall-howled in the
chimneys-broke his window-glass- scattered his
pots and pans all over his kitche.n, and set his
chairs and tables a dancing the whole night through.
Crowds of persons assembled around the house to
hear the mysterious noises ; and the bricks wer~
observed to detach themselves from the wall and
fall into the streets upon the heads of those who
had not said their paternoster before they came out
in the morning. These things having continued
for some time, Gilles Blacre made his complaint
to the CiVil Court of Tours, and Peter Piquet was
summo~ed to show cause why the lease should not -
be annulled. Poor Peter could make no defence,
and the court unanimously agreed that no lease
j 1 ' I
HAUNTED HOUS~. 375
could hold good under such circumstances, and
annulled it accordingly, conqemning· the qnlucky
owner to all the expenses of the suit. Peter ap-.
pealed to the Parliament of Paris; and, after a long
examination, the Parliament confirmed the lease.
~~Not," said the judge, "because it bas not been
fully and satisfactorily proved that the house is
troubled by evil spirits, but that there was an in-
formality in.the proceedings before the Civil Court
of Tours, that rendered its de~_ision null and of
no effect."
A 11imilar cause was tried before the Parliament
of Bordeaux, in the year 1595, relative to a house
in that city which was sorely troubled by evil
spirits. The. Parliament appointed certain ec- • .J
clesiastics to examine and report to them, and
on their report in the affirmative that the bouse
was haunted, the lease was ann~lled, and the
tenant absolved from all payment of rent and
taxes.•
One of the best stories of a haunted house is
that of the royal palace of Woodstoek, in the year
1649, when the commiasioners sent from London
by the Long Parliament to take possession of it,
and efface all the emblems of royalty ahout it, were
fairly driven out by their fear of the devil and
the annoyances they suffered from .a roguish cava-
lier, who played the imp to admiration. The com-
missioners, dreading at that time no devil, arrived
* Garinet. Histoire de la Magie en France; page 156.
j 1 ' I
376 HAUNTED HOUSES.
at Woodstock on the 18th of October, 1649. They
took up their lodgings in the late King's apart-
ments-turned the beautiful bedrooms and with-
drawing-rooms into kitchens and sculleries-the
counciL-hall into a brew-house, and made the dining-
room a place to keep firewood in. They pulled·
down all the insignia of royal state, and treated
with the utmost indignity everything that recalled
to their memory the name or the majesty of Charles
Stuart. One Giles Sharp accompanied them in
the capacity of clerk, and seconded their efforts,
apparently with the greatest zeal. He aided them
to uproot a noble old tree, merely because it was
called the King's Oak, and tossed the fragments
into the dining-room to make cheerful fires for the
commissioners. During the first two days, they
heard some strange noises about the bouse, but
they paid no great attention to them. On the
third, however, they began to suspect they bad got
into bad company; for they heard, as they thought,
a supernatural dog under their bed, which gnawed
their bedclothes. On the next day, the chairs and
tables began to dance, apparently of their own
accord. On the fifth day, something came into the
bedchamber and walked up and down, and fetch-
ing the warming-pan out of the withdrawing-room,
made so'much noise with it that they thought five
church-bells were ringing in theit' ears. On the
sixth day, the plates and disl1es were thrown up
and down the dining-room. <?n the seventh, they
HAUNTED HOUSES. 877
penetrated into the bedroom in company with seve-
. rallogs of wood, and usurped the soft pillows in-
tended for the commissioners. On the eighth and
ninth nights, there was a cessation of hostilities ;
but on the tenth, the bricks in the chimneys be..
came locomotive, and rattled and danced about the
floors, and round the heads of the commissioners,
all the night long. On the eleventh, the demon
ran away with their breeches, and on the twelfth
filled their beds so full of pewter-platters that they
could not get into them. On the thirteenth night,
the glass became unaccountably seized with a fit
of cracking, and fell into shivers in all parts of
the house. On the fourteenth, there was a noise
as if forty pieces of artillery had been fired off, and
a shower of pebble..stones, which so alarmed the
commissioners that, " struck with great horror,
they cried out to one another for help."
They first of all tried the efficacy of prayers to
drive away the evil spirits; but these proving un-
availing, they began seriously to reflect whether
it would not be much better to leave the place
altogether to the devils that inhabited it. They
ultimately resolved, however, to try it a little
longer ; and having craved forgiveness of all their
sins, betook themselves to bed. That night they
slept in tolerable comfort, but it was merely a trick
of their tormentor to lull them into false security.
When, on the succeeding night, they heard no
noises, they began to Batter themselves that the
878 IIAUNTED HOUSES.
devil was driven out, and prepared accordingly
to take up their quarters for the whole winter in
the palace. These symptoms on their part became
the signal for renewed uproar among the fiends.
On the 1st of November1 they heard something
walking with a slow and solemn pace up and down
the withdrawing-room, and immediately afterwards
a shower of stones, bricks, mortar, and broken
glass pelted about their ears. On the 2nd the
steps were again heard in the withdrawing-room,
sounding to their fancy very much like the tread-
ing of an enormous bear, which continued for about
a quarter of an hour. This noise having ceased,
a large warming-pan was thrown violently upon
the table, followed by a number of stones and the
jawbone of a horse. Some of the boldest walked
valiantly into the withdrawing-room, armed with
swords, and pistols ; but could discover nothing.
They were afraid that night to go to sleep, and
sat up, making fires in every room, and huED·
ing candles and lamps in great abundance; think-
ing that, as the fiends loved darkness, they would
not disturb a company surrounded with so much
light. 'fhey were deceived, however : b!lcketa of
water came down the chimneys and extinguished
the fires, and the candles were blown out; they
knew n~t how. Some of the servants who had
betaken themselves to bed were drenched with
putrid ditch-water as they lay, and arose in great
fright, muttering incoherent prayers, and exposing
HAUNTED HOUSES. S79
to the wondering eyes· of the commissioners their
linen all dripping with green mois.ture, and their
knuckle~ red with the blows they had at the
same time received from some invisible tormen-
tors. While they were still speaking, there_was a
noise like the loudest thunder, or the firing of a
whole par.k of artillery, upon which they all fell
down upon their knees and implored the prQtec-
tion of the Almighty. One of the commissioners
then arose, the others still kneeling, and asked in
a courageous voice, and in the name of God, who.
was there, and what they had done that they
should be troubled in that manner. No answer
was returned, and the noises ceased for a while.
At length, however, as the commis~ioners said,
" the devil came again, and brought with it seven
devils worse than itself." Being again in dark.
ness, they lighted a candle and. placed it in the
doorway, that it might throw a light upon the two
chambers at once; but it was suddenly blown out,
and one commissioner said.that he had n seen the
similitude of a horse's hoof striking the candle and
candlestick into the middle of the chamber, and
afterwards making three scrapes on the ,snufF to
put it out." Upon this, the same person was so
bold as to draw his sword ; but he asserted po-
sitively that he had hardly withdrawn it from the·
sca,bbard before an invisible ha.nd seized hold of
it and tugged with him for it, and prevailing,
struck him so violent a blow wjth the pommel that
j 1 ' I
880 HAUNTED HOUSES.
he was quite stunned. Then the noises began
again ; upon which, with one accord.J they all re-
tired into the presence-chamber, where they passed
the night, praying and singing psalms.
They were by this time convinced that it was
useless to struggle any longer with the powers of
evil, that seemed determined to make Woodstock-
their own. These things happened on the Satur-
day night; and, being repeated on the Sunday,
they determined to leave the place immediately,
and return to London. By Tuesday morning early,.
all their preparations were completed.; and, shaking
the dust offtheir feet, and devoting Woodstock and
all its inhabitants to the infernal gods, they finally
took their departure.•
Many years elapsed before the true cause ofthese
disturbance& was discovered. It was ascertained,
at the Restoration, that the whole was the work of
Giles Sharp, the trusty clerk of the commissioners.
This man, whose real name was Joseph Collins,
was a concealed royajist, and had passed his early
life within the bowers of Woodstock ; so that he
knew every hole and corner of the place, and the
numerous trap-doors and secret passages that
abounded in the building. The commissioners,
never suspecting the true state of his opinions, but
believing him to be revolutionary to the back-bone,
placed the utmost reliance upon him; a confidence
• Dt. H. More's Continuation of Glanvil'a CQllection of Rela-
tions in proof of Witchcraft.
j 1 ' I
HAUNTED HOUSES. 881
which he abused in the manner above detailed, to
his own great amusement, and that ofthe few cava-
liers.whom he let into the secret.
Quite as extraordinary and as cleverly managed
was the trick played oft' at Tedworth, in 1661, at
the house of Mr. Mompesson, and which is so cir-
cumstantially narrated by the Rev. Joseph Glan-
vil, under the title of "The Demon of Tedworth,"
and appended, among other proofs of witchcraft,
to his noted work, called " Sadducismus Trium-
phatus." About the middle of April, in the year
above mentioned, .Mr~ Mompesson, having returned
to his house, at Tedworth, from a journey be had
taken to London, was informed by his wife, that
during his absence they had been troubled with
the most extraordinary noises. Three nights after-
wards be heard the noise himself; and it appeared
to him to be that of " a great knocking at his
doors, and on the outside of his walls:' He imme-
diately arose, dressed himself, took down a pair of
pistols, and walked valiantly forth to discover the
disturber, under the impression that it must be
a robber : but, as ~e went, the noise seemed to
travel before or behind him ; and, when be arrived
at the door from which he thought it proceeded,
he saw nothing, but still heard u a strange hollow
sound." He puzzled Itis brains for a long time,
and searched every corner of the house ; but, dis-
covering nothing, he went to bed again. He was
no sooner snug under the clothes, than the noise
j 1 ' I
•.
88i HAUNTED HOUSES.
began again more furiously than ever, sounding
very much like a " thumping and drumming on the
top ofhis house. and then by degrees going offinto
the air."
These things continued for several nights, when
it came to the recollection of Mr. Mompesson that
some time before, he had given orders for the arrest
and imprisonment of a wandering drummer, who
went about the country with a large drum, disturb-
ing quiet people and soliciting alms, and that he
had_detained the mao's drum, and that, probably,
the drummer was a wizard, and had sent evil
spirits to haunt his house, to be revenged of him.
He becaroe strengthened in his opinion every day,
especially when the noises assumed, to his fancy, a
rese~blance to the beating of a drum, u like that
at the breaking up of a .guard." Mrs. Mompesson
being brought to bed, the devil, or the drummer,
very kindly and considerately refrained from mak-
ing the usual riot ; but, as soon as she recovered
strength, began again n in a ruder manner than
before, following and vexing the young children,
and beating their bedsteads with so much violence
·that every one expected they would fall in pieces...
For an hour together, as the worthy Mr. Mom..
pesson repeated to his wondering _
neighbours, this
infernal drummer u would beat 1
Roundheads and
Cuc~olds," the .' Tat-too,' and several other points
of war, as cleverly as any soldier." When this had
lasted long enough, he chapged his tactics, and
HAUNTED HOUSES. sss
scratched with his iron talons under the children'~
bed. "On the 5th of November/' says the Rev.
Joseph Glanvil, "it made a mighty noise; and "
servant, observing two boards in the children's room
seeming to move, be bid it give him one of them•.
Upon which the board came (nothing moving it,
that he saw), within a yard of him. The man
added, 4
Nay, let me have it in my hand;' upon
which the spirit, devil, or drummer pushed it to-
wards him so close, that he might touch it. u This,'!
continues Glanvil,." was in the day-time, and was
seen by a-whole room full of peo}>le. That morn-
ing it left a sulphureous smell behind it, which was
very offensive. At night the minister, one Mr.
Cragg, and several of the neighbours, came to the
house, on a visit. Mr. Cragg went to prayers with
them, kneeling at the children'11 bedside, where it
then became very troublesome and loud. During
prayer time., the spirit.withdrew into the cock-loft.,
but returned as soon a8 prayers were done ; and
then, in sight of the company, the chairs walked
about the room of themselves, the children's shoes
were hurled over their heads., and every loose thing
moved about the chamber. At the same time,
a bed-staff was thrown at the minister, which hit
him on the leg, but ao favourably, that a lock of
wool could not have fallen more softly." On another
occasion, the blacksmith of the village., a fellow
who cared neither for ghost nor de:vil, slept with
John, the footman, that he also might hear the dis-
.
•
S84 HAUN;I'ED HOUSES.
turbances, and be cured of his incredulity, when
there n came a noise in the room, as if one had
been shoeing a horse, and somewhat came, a~ it
were, with a pair ofpincers," snipping and snapping
at the poor blacksmith's nose the greater part of
the- night. Next day it came, panting like a dog
out of breath; upon which some woman present
took a bed-staff to knock at it, u which was caught
suddenly out of her hand, and thrown away; and
company coming up, the room was presently filled
with a hl(){)'Tn!J noi&ome ameli, and was very hot,
though without fire, in a very sharp and severe
winter. It continued in the bed, panting and
scratching for an hour and a half, and then went
into the next room, where it knocked a little, and
seemed to rattle a chain."
,-
The rumour of these wonderful occurrences soon
spread all over the country, and people from far
and near flocked to the haunted house ofTedworth,
to believe or doubt, as their natures led them, but
all filled with intense curiosity. It appears, too,
that the fame of these events reached the royal ear,
and that some gentlemen were sent by the King to
investigate the circumstances, and draw up a re-
port of what they saw or heard. Whether the royal
commissioners were more sensible men than the
neighbours of Mr. Mompesson, and required more
clear and positive evidence than they, or whether
the pqwers with which they were armed to punish
anybody who might be found carrying on this de-
HAUNTED HOUSES. 885
ception, frightened the evil-doers, is not certain ;
but Glanvil himself reluctantly confesses, that all
the time they were in the house, the noises ceased,
and nothing was beard or seen. " However,,. says
he, " as to the quiet ofthe house when the co_
urtiers
were there, the intermission may have been acci-
dental, or perhaps the demon was not willing to
give so public a testimony of those transactions
which might possibly convince·those who, he had
rather, should continue in unbelief of his existence."
As soon as the royal commissioners took their
departure, the infernal drummer re-commenced his
antics, and hundreds of persons were daily present
to bear and wonder. Mr. Mompesson's servant was
so fortunate as not only to hear, but to see this
pertinacious demon; for it came and stood at the
foot of his bed. " The exact shape and proportion
of it he could not discover; but be saw a great
body, with two red and glaring eyes, which, for
some time, were fixed steadily on him, and at
length disappeared." Innumerable were the antics
it played. Once it purred like a cat; beat the
children's legs black and blue; put a long spike
into Mr. Momp~sson's bed, and a knife into his ;.
mother's; filled the porrengers with ashes; hid a
Bible under the grate ; and turned the money black
in people's pockets. u One night," said Mr. Mom-
pesson, in a letter to Mr. Glanvil, 1
' there were
seven or eight of these devils in the·shape of men,
who, as soon as a gun was fired, would shufHe away
VOL. II. 2 C
386 HAUNTED HOUSES.
into an arbour;" a circumstance which might have
convinced Mr. Mompesson of the mortal nature of
his persecutors, if he had not been of the number of
those worse than blind, who shut their eyes and
refuse to see.
-In the mean .time the drummer, the supposed
cause of all the mischief, passed his time in Glou-
cester gaol, whither be bad been committed as a
rogue and a vagabond. Being visited one day by
some person from the neighbourhood of Tedworth,
he asked what was the news in Wiltshire, and
whether people did not talk a great deal about a
drumming in a gentleman's house there? The
visiter Teplied, that he beard of nothing else ; upon
which the drummer observed, u I have done it; I
have thus plagued him; and he shall never be
quiet until he hath made me satisfaction for taking
away my drum.'' No doubt the fellow, who seems
to ha.ve been a gipsy, spoke the truth, and that.
the gang of which he was a member knew more
about the noises at Mr. Mompesson's house than
anybody else. Upon these words, howevert he was
brought to trial at Salisbury, for witchcraft; and,
being found guilty, was sentenced to transporta-
tion; a sentence which, for its leniency, excited ~o
little wonder in that age, when snch an accusation,
whether proved or not, generally insured the stake
or the gibbet. Glanvil says, that the noises ceased
immediately the drummer was sent beyond the
seas; but that, some how or other, he managed to
HAUNTED HOUSES. S87
return from transportation ; '' by raising storms and
affrighting the seamen, it was said;, when the dis-
turbances were forthwith renewed, and continued at
intervals for several years. Certainly, if the confede-
rates ofthis roving gipsy were so pertinacious in tor-
menting poor weak Mr. Mompesson, their pertinaci-
ty is a most extraordinary instance of what revenge
is capable of. It was believed by many, at the time,
that Mr. Mompesson himself was privy to the whole
matter, and permitted and encouraged these tricks
in his bouse for the sake of notoriety ; but it seems
more probable that the gipsies were the real de-
linquents, and that Mr. Mompesson was as much
alarmed and bewildered as his credulous neigh-
bours, whose excited imaginations conjured up no
small portion of these stories~
" Which rolled, and as they rolled, grew larger every hour."
Many instances, of a similar kind, during the
seventeenth century, might be gleaned from Glan-
vil and other writers of that period; but they do
not differ sufficiently from these to justify a detail
of them. The most famous of all haunted houses
acquired its notoriety much nearer our own time ;
and the circumstances connected with it are so
curious, and afford so fair a specimen of the easy
credulity even of well-informed and sensible people,
as to merit a little notice in this chapter. The
Cock Lane Ghost, as it was called. kept London
in commotion for a considerable time, and was .the
2 c 2
$88 HAUNTED ·uoUSES.
theme of conversation among the learned and the
illiterate, and in every circle, from that of the
prince to that ofthe peasant.
At the commencement of.the year 1760, there
resided in Cock Lane, near West Smithfield, in the
house of one Parsons, the parish clerk of St. Sepul~
chre's, a stockbroker, named Kent. The wife of
this gentleman had died in child-bed during the
previous year, and his sister-in-law, Miss Fanny,
had arrived from Norfolk to keep his house for
him. They soon conceived a mutual affection, and
each of them made a will in the other's favour.
They lived some months in the house of Parsons,
who, being a needy man, borrowed money of his
lodger. Some difference arose betwixt them, and
Mr. Kent left the house, and instituted 'legal pro-
ceedings against the parish clerk for the recovery
of his money.
While this matter was yet pending, Miss Fanny
was suddenly taken ill of the small-pox ; and, not.
withstanding every care and attention, she died in a
few days, and was buried in a vault under Clerken-
well church. Parsons now began to hint that the
poor lady had come unfairly by her death, and that
Mr. 1\ent was accessory to it, from his too great
eagerness to enter into possession of the property
she had bequeathed him. Nothing further was said
for nearly two years; but it would appear that Par-
sons was of so revengeful a charactel', that he had
never forgotten or forgiven his differences with Mr!
HAUNTED HOUSES. 889.
Kent, and th~ indignity of having been sued for the.
borrowed money. The strong passions of pride
and avarice were silently at work during all that
interval, natching schemes of revenge, but dismiss-
ing them one after the other as impracticable, until,
at last, a notable one suggested itself. About the
beginning of the year 1762, the alarm was spread ·
over all the neighbourhood of Cock Lane, that the
bouse of Parsons was haunted by the ghost of poor
Fanny, and that the daughter of Parsons, a girl
about twelve years of age, had several times seen
and conversed with the spirit, who bad, moreover,
informed her, that she had not died of the small-
pox, as was currently reported, but of poison, ad-
ministered by Mr. Kent. Parsons, who originated,
took good care to countenance these reports; and,
in answer to numerous inquiries, said his house was
every night, and had been for two years, in fact,
ever since the death of Fanny, troubled by a loud
knocking at the doors and in the walls. Having
thus prepared the ignorant and credulous neigh-
bours to believe or exaggerate for themselves what
he had told them, he setit for a gentleman of a
higher cJass in life, to come and witness these ex-
traordinary occurrences. The gentleman came ac-
cordingly, and found the daughter of Parsons, to
whom the spirit alone appeared, and whom alone
it answered, in bed, trembling violently, havingjust
seen the ghost, and been again informed that she
had died from poison. A loud knocking was also
890 HAUNTED HOUSES.
heard from every part of the chamber. which so
mystified the not very clear understanding ofthe vi-
siter, that he departed, afraid to doubt and ashamed
to believe, but with a promise to ~ring the clergy-
man of the parish and several other gentlemen on
the following day, to report upon the mystery.
On the following night he returned, bringing
with him three clergymen, and about twenty other
persons, including two negroes, when, upon a con-
sultation with Parsons, they resolved to sit up the
whole 'night, and await the ghost's arrival. It was
then explained by Parsons, that although the ghost
would never render itself visible to anybody but his
daughter, it had no objection to answer the ques-
tions that might be put to it, by any person pre-
sent, and that it expressed an affirmation by one
knock, a negative by two, and its displeasure by a
kind of scratching. The child was then put into
bed along with her sister, and the clergymen ex-
amined the bed and bed-clothes to satisfy them-
selves that no trick was played, by knocking upon
any substance concealed among the clothes. As on
the previous night, the bed was observed to shake
violently.
After some hours, during which they all waited
with exemplary patience, the mysterious knocking
was heard in the wall, and the child declared that
she saw the ghost of poor Fanny. The following
questions were then gravely put by the clergyman,
through the medium of one Mary Frazer, the ser-
HAUNTED HOUSES. 891
vant of Parsons, and to whom it was said tne de-
ceased lady had been much attached. The answers
were in the usual fashion, by a knock or knocks :-
11 Do you make this disturbance on account of
the ill usage you received from Mr. Kent ?.,_,yes."
" Were you brought to an untimely end by
poison ?"-" Yes."
" How was the poison ·administered, in beer or
in purl?"-" In purl."
" How long was that before your death?"-
11 About three hours.''
" Can your former servant.. Carrots, give any in-
formation about the poison?"- " Yes.''
"Are you Kent's wife's sister?"-" Yes."
" Were you married to Kent after your sister's
death 1"-" No.''
'' Was anybody else. besides Kent, concerned in
your murder ?''-n No.''
" Can you, if you like, appear visibly to ally-
one 1"-"Yes.''
u Will you do so?"-" Yes."
" Can you go out of this house 1"-" Yes."
11
Is it your intention to follow this child about
everywhere 1"-" Yes."
" Are you pleased in being asked these ques-
tions 1"-"Yes."
" Does it ease your troubled soul?"-" Yes."
[Here there was heard a mysterious noise, which
some wiseacre present compared to the fluttering
of wings.]
j 1 ' I
39i HAUNTED HOUSES.
u How long before your death did you tell your
servant. Carrots, that you were poisoned1- An
hour 1"-" Ye.s."'
[Carrots, who was present, was appealed to; but
she stated positively that such was not the fact,
as the deceased was quite speechless an hour before
her death. This shook the faith of some of the
spectators, but the examination was aJlowed to
continue.]
" How long did Carrots live with you?"-
"Three or four days."
[Carrots was again appealed to, and said that
this was true.J
u If Mr. Kent is arrested for this murder, will
he confess ?"- " Yes."
" Would your soul be at rest if be were hanged
for it 1"-11
Yes."
" Will he be banged for it?.,_.. Yes."
" How long a time first ?"-" Three years."
"How many clergymen are there in this room?''
_n Three.''
" How many negroes 1"-u Two."
., Is this watch (held up by one of the clergy-
men) white?"-" No." ·
"Is it yellow?"-" No."
"Is it blue?"-" No."
u Is it black?"-" Yes.''
[The watch was in a black shagreen case.J
"At what time this morning will you take your
departure ?"
HAU.NTED HOUSES.
The an11wer to this question was four knocks,
very distinctly heard by every person present ; and
accordingly, at four o'clock precisely, the ghost
took its departure to the Wheatsheaf public-house,
close -by, where it frightened mine host and his
lady almost out of their wits by knocking in the
ceiling rigllt above their bed.
The rumour of these occurrences very soon
spread over London, and every day Cock Lane was
rendered impassable by the crowds of people who
assembled around the house of the parish clerk, in
expectation of either seeing the ghost or of hearing
the mysterious knocks. It was at last found neces-
sary, so clamorous were they for admission within
the haunted precincts, to admit those only who
would pay a certain fee, an arrangement which
was very convenien-
t to the needy and money-loving
,Mr. Parsons. Indeed, things had taken a turn
greatly to his satisfaction; he not only bad his
revenge, but he made a profit out of it. The
ghost, in consequence, played its antics every
night, to the great amusement of many hundreds
of people and the great perplexity of a still greater
number.
Unhappily, however, for the parish clerk, the
ghost was induced to make some promises which
were the means- of utterly destroying its reputa-
tion. It promised, in answer to the questions of
the Reverend Mr. Aldritch of Clerkenwell, that
it would not only follow the little Miss Parsons
HAUNTED HOUSES.
wherever she went, but would aJso attend him, or
any other gentleman, into the vault under St. John's
Church, where the body of the murdered woman
was deposited, and would there give notice of its
presence by a distinct knock upon the coffin. AP.
a preliminary, the girl was conveyed to the bouse
of Mr. Aldritch near the church, where a large
party of laclies and gentlemen~ eminent for their
acquirements, their rank, or their wealth, bad as-
sembled. About ten o'clock on the night of the
1st of February, the girl having been brought from
Cock Lane in a coach, was put to bed by several
ladies in the house of Mr. Aldritch; a strict exa-
mination having been previously made that nothing
was hidden in the bedclothes. While the gentle-
men, in an adjoining chamber, were deliberating
whether they should proceed in a body to the
vault, they were summoned into the bedroom by
the ladies, who affirmed, in great alarm, that the
ghost was come, and that they heard the knocks
and scratches. The gentlemen entered according-
ly, with a determination to suffer no deception.
The little girl, on being asked whether she saw the
ghost, replied, uNo; but she felt it on her back
like a mouse.': She was then required to put her
bands out of bed, and they being held by some of
the ladies, the spirit was summoned in the usual
manner to answer, if it were in the room. The
question was several times put with great solem.nity;
but the customary knock was not heard in reply in
j 1 ' I
HAUNTED HOUSES. 895
the walls, neither was there any scJ"atching. The
ghost was then asked to reuder itself visible, but
it did not choose to grant the request. It was
next solicited to give some token of its presence
by a sound of any sort, or by touching the hand
or chee}c. of any lady or gentleman in the room ;
but even with this request the ghost would not
comply.
There was now a considerable pause, and one of
the clergymen went downstail's to interrogate the
father of the girl, who was waiting the result of the
experiment. He positively denied that there was any.
deception, and even went so far as to say that he
himself, upon one occasion, had seen and conversed
with the awful ghost. This having· been commu-
nicated to the company, it was unanimously re-
solved to give the ghost another trial; and the
clergyman called out in a loud voice to the sup-
posed spirit that the gentleman to whom it had
promised to appear in the vault, was about to re-
pair to that place, where he claiiJ:led the fulfilmeDt
of its promise. At one hour after midnight they
all proceeded to the church, and: the gentleman
in question, with another, entered the vault alone,
and took up their position alongside of the coffin
of poor Fanny. The ghost was then summoned
to appear, but it appeared not; ·it was summoned
to knock. but it knocked not ; it was summoned to
scratch, but it scratched not; and the two retired
from the vault, with the firm belief that the whole
\ \h I I
HAUNTED HOUSES.
business was a deception practised by Parsons and
his daughter. There were others, however, who
did not wish to jump so hastily to a conclusion, and
who suggested that they were, perhaps, trifling
with this awful and supernatural being, which, be-
ing offended with them for their presumption.. would
not condescend to . answer them. Again, after a
serious consultation, it was agreed on all hands
that, if the ghost answered anybody at all, it would
answer Mr. Kent, the supposed murderer; and be
was accordingly requested to go down into the
vault. He went with several others,. and sum-
moned the ghost to answer whether he had in-
deed poisoned her. There being no answer, the
question was put by Mr. Aldritcb, who conjured·
it, if it were indeed a spirit, to end their doubts-
make a sign of its presence, and point out the
guilty person. There being still no answer for
the space of half an hour, d)lring which time all
these boobies waited with the most praiseworthy
perseverance, they returned to the house of Mr.
4.1dritch, and ordered the girl to get up and dress
herself. She was strictly examined, but persisted
in her statement that she used no deception, and
that the ghost had really appeared to per.
So many persons had, by their openly expressed
beliefof the reality of the visitation, identified them-
selves with it, that Parsons and his family were far
from being the only persons interested in the con-
tinuance of the delusion. The result of the experi-
HAUNTED HOUSES. ·897
ment convinced most pe.ople ; but these were not
to be convinced by any evidence, however positive,
and they, therefore, spread abroad the rumour,
that the ghost had not appeared in the vault
because· Mr. Kent had taken care beCorehand to
have the coffin removed. That gentleman, whose
position was a very painful one, immediately pro-
cured competent witnesses, in whose presence the
vault was entered and the coffin of poor Fanny
opened. Their deposition was then published ;
and Mr. Kent indicted Parsons and his wife, his
daughter, Mary Frazer the servant, the Reverend
Mr. Moor, and a tradesman, two of the most pro-
minent patrons of the deception, for a conspiracy.
·The trial came on in the Court of King's Bench,
on the lOth of July, before Lord Chief-Justice
Mansfield, when, after an investigation which lasted
twelve hours, the whole of the conspirators were
found guilty. The Reverend Mr. Moor and his
friend were severe)y reprimanded in open court,
and recommended to make some pecuniary com-
pensation to the prosecutor for the aspersions they
had been instrumental in throwing upon his cha-
racter. Parsons was sentenced to stand three times
in the pillory, and to be imprisoned for two years :
his '\1\-ife to one year's, and his servant to six months'
imprisonment in the BridewelL A printer, who
had been employ~d by them to publish an account
of the proceedings for their profit, was also· fined
fifty pounds, and discharged.
,
398 HAUNTED HOUSES.
The precise manner in which the deception
was carried on has never been explained. The
knocking in the wall appears to have been the
work of Parsons' wife, while the scratching part
of the business was left to the little girl. That any
contrivan.ce so clumsy could have deceived any-
body, cannot fail to excite our wonder. Bllt thus
it always is. If two or three persons can only be
found to take the lead in any absurdity, however
great, there is sure to be plenty of imitators. Like
sheep in a field, if one clears the stile, the rest will
follow.
About ten years afterwards, London was again
alarmed by the story of a haunted house. Stock·
well, near Vauxhall, the scene of the antics of
this new ghost, became almost ns celebrated in the
annals of sup-
erstition as Cock Lane. Mrs. Gold-
ing, an elderly lady, who resided alone with her
servant, Anne Robinson, was sorely surprised on
the evening of Twelfth-Day, 1772, to observe a
most extraordinary commotion among her crockery.
Cups and saucers rattled down the chimney -pots
and pans were whirled down stairs, or through the
windows ; and hams, cheeses, and loaves of bread
disported themselves upon the floor as if the devil
were in them. This, at least, wns the conclusion
that Mrs. Golding came to; and being greatly
alarmed, she invited some of her neigh~ours to
stay with her, and protect her from the evil one.
Their presence, however, did not put a stop to
j 1 ' I
HAUNTED HOUSES. 399
the insurrection of china, and every room in the
house was in a short time strewed with the frag-
ments. The chairs and tables joined, at last, in
the tumult, and things looked altogether so serious ·
and inexplicable, that the neighbours, dreading that
the house itself would next be seized with a fit of
motion, and tumble about their ears, left poor Mrs.
Golding to bear the brunt of it by herself. The
ghost in this case was solemnly remonstrated with,
and urged to take its departure; but the demolition
continuing as great as before, Mrs. Golding finally
made up her mind to quit the house altogether.
She took refuge with Anne Robinson in the house
of a neighbour; but his glass and crockery being
immediately subjected to the same persecution, he
was reluctantly compelled to give her notice to ·
quit. The old lady thus forced back to her own
house, endured the disturbance for some days
longer, when suspecting that Anne Robinson was
the cause of all tbe mischief, she dismissed her
from her service. The extraordinary appearances
immediately ceased, and were never afterwards
renewed ; a fact which is of itself sufficient to
point out the real disturber. A long time after.
wards, Anne Robinson confessed the whole matter
to the Reverend Mr. Brayfield. This gentleman
confided the story to Mr. Hone, who has published
an explanation oJ the mystery. Anne, it appears,
was anxious to have a clear house, to carry on
an intrigue with her lover, and resorted to this
400 HAUNTED HOUSES.
trick to effect her purpose. She placed the china
on the shelves in such a manner that it fell on
the slightest motion, and attached horse-hairs to
other articles, so- that she could jerk them down
from an adjoining room without being perceived by
any one. She was exceedingly dexterous ·at this
sort of work, and would have proved a formidable
rival to many a juggler by profession. A full ex-
planation of the whole affair may be found in
the " Every-day Book."
The latest instance of the popular panic occasion-
ed by a house supposed to be haunted, occurred in
Scotland, in the winter of the year 1888. On the
5th of December, the inmates of the farm-house of
Baldarroch, in the district of Banchory, Aberdeen-
shire, were alarmed by observing a great number
of sticks, pebble-stones, and clods of earth flying
about their yard and premises. They endeavour-
ed, but in vain, to discover who was the delinquent;
and the shower of stones continuing for five days
in succession, they came at last to the conclusion
that the devil and his imps were alone the cause
of it. The rumour soon spread over all that part
of ~he country, and hundreds of persons came from
far and near to witness the antics of the devils of
Baldarroch. After the fifth day, the shower of
cJods and stones ceased on the outside of the
premises, and the scene shifted to the interior.
Spoons, knives, plates, mustard-pots, rolling:-pins,
and flat-irons appeared suddenly endued with the
HAUNTED HOUSES. 4.01
power of self-motion, and were whirled from room
to room, and rattled down the chimneys in a
manner which nobody could account for. The
lid of a mustard-pot was put into a cupboard by
the servant-girl in the presence of scores of people,
and in a few minutes afterwards came bouncing
down the chimney to the constemation of every-
body. There was also a tremendous knocking at
the doors and on the roof, and pieces of stick and
pebble-stones rattled against the windows· and
broke them. The whole neighbourhood was a
scene of alarm ; nnd not only the vulgar, but per-
sons of education, respectab)e farmers, within a
circle of twenty miles, expressed their belief in the
supernatural character of these events, and offered
up devout prayers to be preserved from the machi-
nations of the Evil One. The note of fear being
once sounded, the visiters, as is generally the case
in all tales of wonder, strove with each other who
should witness the most extraordinary occurrences;
and within a week, it was generally believed in the
parishes of Banchory-'fernnn, Drumoak, Dorris,
Kincardine-O'Neil, and all the circumjacent dis-
tricts of Mearns and Aberdeenshire, that the devil
had been seen in the act of hammering upon the
house-top of Baldarrocb. One old man asserted
positively that, one night, after having been to
see the strange gambols of the knives and mustard-
pots, he met the phantom of a great black man,
" who wheeled round his head with a whizzing
VOL. IJ. ~ D
j 1 ' I
HAUNTED HOUSES.
noise, making a wind about his ears that almost
blew his bonnet oft:" and that he was haunted by
him in this manner for three miles. It was also
a~rmed and believed, that all horses and dogs
that approached this enchanted ground, were im-
mediately affected- that a gentleman, slow of
faith, had been cured of his incredulity by meet-
ing the butter-churn jumping in at the door as
he himselfwas going out-that the roofs of houses
bad been torn off, and that several ricks in the
corn-yard had danced a quadrille together, to
the sound of the devil's bagpipes re-echoing from·
the mountain-tops. 'rhe women in the family of
the persecuted farmer of Baldarroch also kept
their tongues in perpetual motion ; swelling with
their strange stories the tide of popular wonder.
The good wife herself, and all her servants, said
that, whenever they went to bed, they were at-
tacked with stones and other missiles, some of
which ~ame below·the blankets and gently tapped
their toes. One evening, a shoe suddenly darted
acr-<~ss a garret where some labourers were sitting,
and one of the men, who ·attempted to eat.ch it,
swqre positively that it was so bot and heavy he
was unable to hold .it. It was also said that the
bearbeater (a!sort of mortar used to bruise barley
in)-an object of such weight that it requires
several men to move it -spon~aneously left the
barn and flew over the house-top, alighting at
the feet of one of the §,Crvant maids, and bitting
I I \ I
HAUNTED HOUSES. 40S
her, but without hurting her in the least, or even
causing her any alarm ; it being a fact well known
to her, that all objects thus thrown aboijt by the
devil lost their specific gravity, and could harm
nobody, even though they fell upon a person's
head.
Among the persons drawn to Baldarroch by these
occurrences were the heritor, the minister, and all
the e]ders ofthe Kirk, under whose superintendence
aninvestigationwas immediate1y commenced. Their
proceedings were not promulgated for some days ;
and, in the mean time, rumour continued to travel
through all the Highlands, magnifying each mys-
terious incident the further it got from home. It
was said, that when the goodwife put her potato-
pot on the fire, each potato, as the water boiled,
changed into a demon, and grinned horribly at her
as she lifted the lid; that not only chairs and
tables, but carrots and turnips, skipped al~ng the
floor in the merriest manner imaginable ; that shoes
and boots went through all the evolutions of the
Highland fling without any visible wearers direct-
ing their motions ; and that a piece of meat de-
tached itselffrom the hook on which it hung in the
pantry, and placed itselfbefore the fire, whence all
the efforts of the people ofthe house were unable
to remove it until it was thoroughly roasted; and
that it then flew up the chimney with a tremendous
bang. At Baldarroch itself the belief was not quite
so extravagant ; but the farmer was s9 convinced
DAUNTED HOUSES.
that the devil and his imps were alone the cause of
all the disturbance, that he travelled a distance of
forty miles to an old conjuror, named Willie Fore-
man, to induce him, for a handsome fee, to remove
the enchantment fa:om his property. There were,
of course, some sensible and educated people, who,
after stripping the stories circulated of their ex-
aggeration, attributed all the rest to one or other
of two causes ; first, that some gipsies, or strolling
mendicants, hidden in the neighbouring plantation,
were amusing themselves by working on the cre-
dulity of the country people; or, secondly, that the
inmates of Baldarroch carried on this deception
themselves, for some reason or other, which was not
.very clear to anybody. The last opinion gained
but few believers, as the farmer and his familywere
much respected ; and so many persons bad, in the
most open manner, expressed their belief in the
supernatural agency, that they did not like to stul-
tify themselves by confessing that they had been
deceived.
At last, after a fortnight's continuance of the
noises, the whole trick was di!!covered. The two
servant lasses were strictly examined, and then
committed to prison. It appeared that they were
alone at the bottom of the whole affair, and that the
extraordinary alarm and credulity of their master
.and mistress, in the first instance, and of the neigh-
bours and country people afterwards, made their
task comparatively easy. A little common dex.terity
j 1 ' I
HAUNTED HOUSES. 405
was all they had used ; and, being themselves un-
suspected, they swelled the alarm by the wonderful
stories they invented. It was they who loosened
the bricks· in the chimneys, and placed the dishes
in such a manner on the shelves, that they fell on
the slightest motion. In short, they played the
same tricks as those used by the servant girl at
Stockwell, with the same results, and for the same
purpose- the gratification of a love of mischief.
They were no sooner secured in the county gaol
than the noises ceased, and most people were con~
vinced that human agency alone had worked all
the wonder. Some few of the most devoutly
superstitious still held out in their first belief, and
refused to listen to any explanation.
These tales of haunted houses, especially those
of the last and present century, however they may
make us blush for popular folly, are yet gratifying
in their results; for they show that society has
made a vast improvement. Had Parsons and his
wife, and the other contrivers of the ·Cock Lane
deception, lived two hundred years earlier, they
would not, perhaps, have found a greater number of
dupes, but they would have been hanged as witches,
instead of being imprisoned as vagabonds. The
ingenious Anne Robinson and the sly lasses of Bal-
~arroch would, doubtless, have met a similar fate.
Thus it is pleasant to reflect, that though there
may be as much folly and credulity in the world as
ever, in one class of society, there is more wisdom
406 HAUNTED HOUSU.
and mercy in another than ever were known before. •
Lawgivers, by blotting from the statute-book the
absurd or sanguinary enactments of their prede-
cessors, have made one step towards teaching the
people. It is to be hoped that the day is not far
distant when lawgivers will teach the people by
some more direct means, and prevent the recurrence
of delusions like these, and many worse, which
might be cited, by securing to every child born
within their dominions an education in accordance
with the advancing state of civilization. If ghosts
and witches are not yet altogether e:x.plodedJ it is
the fault, not so much of the ignorant people, as of
the law and the government that have neglected to
enlighten them.
END OF THE SECOND VOJ.,UKB.
LOJfOOI!I;
PlUl'IT&D U IAIIUIIL &&NTL&T1
Bt~~&or Hollle1 8boe Lone.
MEMOIRS
OF EXTRAORDINARY
. POPULAR DEL U.SIONS.
VOL. Ili.
LOJIDON l
Pai NTED Br B.t.HD.&L BENTLEY,
Bangor Houae, Sho. Lane.
0
liEMOIRS
1)1!' EXTR<\ORDINARY
POPULAR DELUSIONS.
BY CHARLES ~ACKAY.
AUTHOR OF
u 'J'BE THAMRS AND IT3 TntnUTAB.US," « THE HOPB OF THll WORLD," ltTtJo
" 11 eat bon de eoonllltre le& d€llrea de l'eap~ humaln. Cbaq'Ue peuple a res li!Ues
plua on molnt 8tOUleret."
li!ILt.O'I",
VOL. UL
LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET,
fhmlilbn fll ®tbinail' to •n11!(1ljtlt~.
1841.
\
\';) I
~~· ~·
')
CONTENTS
OF THE THIRD VOLUME.
BOOK I.
VA<ill
INTRODUCTION 1
TnB ALORYHJSTS; or, Searehera fi:lr tbe Philosopher's Stone
~~~~~~. 5
PA.JtT I.-History of Alchymy from the earliest periods to
the Fifteenth Century.-PretendedAntiquity of the Art.
-Geber.-Alfarabi.-Avicenna.-Albertus Magnus.-
ThomasAquinas.-Artephius.-Alain deLisle.-Arnold
de Villeneuve.-Pietro d'Apone.-Raymond Lulli.-
Roger Bl!.<lon.-Pope John XXfi.-Jean de Meung.-
Nicholas Flamel.-George Ripley.-Basil Valentine.-
Bemard of Trevea. - Trithemius. - The Marechal de
Rays.-Jacques Cceur.-Inferior Adepts. · G
PART H.-Progress ofthe Infatuation during the Sixt.eenth
and Seventeenth Centuries. - Augurello. - Cornelius
Agrippa.-Paracelsus.-George Agricola.-Denys Za-
chaire.-Dr. Dee and Edward Kelly.-The Cosmopolite.
-Sendivogius.-The Rosicrucians.-Michael Mayer.-
Robert Fludd.-Jacob Bclhmen.-John Heydn.-Joseph
Francis Borri.-Alchymical Writers of the Seventeenth
Century.- De Lisle.- Albert. Aluys.- Count de St.
Germains.-Cagliostro.-Present State of the Science. . 86
BOOK JL
FoRTUNE TELLING • 247
BOOK Ill.
THE MA.GNBTISJU\S • 283
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
;/ JoHN LAw • to face Title Vol. 1.
~· JAMBS I. to face Title Vol. II.
CouNT CAauosTRO • to face Title Vol. III.
···- .
v PABACBLSU~
Da. DEE
Page 97
ll4
PHILOSOPHICAL DELUSIONS.
DISSATISFACTION with his lot seems to be the cha.
racteristic of man in all ages and climates. So far,
however, from being an evil, as at first might be
supposed, it has been the great civiliser of our race;
and has tended, more than anything else, to raise
us above the condition of the brutes. But the same
discontent which has been the source of an im-
provement, has been the parent of no small pro-
geny of follies and absurdities ; to trace these lat..
ter is the object of the present volume. Vast as
the subject appears, it is easily reducible within
such limits as will make it comprehensive without
'being wearisome, and render its study both in•
'Structive and amusing.
Three causes especially have excited our discon-
tent; and, by impelling us to seek for remedies for
the irremediable, have bewildered us in a. maze of
madness and error. These are death, toiJ, and
ignorance of the future -the doom of man upon
this sphere, and for which he shows his antipathy
by his love of life~ his longing for abundance, and
VOL. lli. B
1\ I
i PHILOSOPHICAL DELUSIONS.
his craving curiosity to pierce the secrets of the
days to come. The first has led many to imagine
that they might find means to avoid death, or, fail-
ing in this, ·that they might, nevertheless, so pro-
long existence as to reckon it by centuries instead
of units. From this sprang the search, so long
continued and still pursued, for the eli.rir vita, or
water of life, which has led thousands to pretend
to it and millions to believe in it. From the second
sprang the absurd search for the philosopher's stone,
which was to create plenty by changing all metals
into gold ; and from the third, the false sciences of
astrology, divination, and their divisions of necro-
mancy, chiromancy, augury, with all their train of
signs, portents, and omens.
In tracing the career of the erring philosophers,
or the wilful cheats, who have encouraged or prey-
ed upon the credulity of mankind, it will simplify
and elucidate the subject, if we divide it into three
classes :-the first comprising alchymists, or those
in general who have devoted themselves to the dis-
covering o_
f the philosopher's stone and the water
of life ; the second comprising astrologers, necro-
mancers,. sorcerers, geomancers, and all thos~ who
pretended to discover futurity; and the third con-
sisting of the dealers in charms, amulets, philters,
universal-panacea monge-~;s, touchers for the evil,
seventh sons of a seventh son, sympathetic powder
compounders, homreopathists, ·animal magnetizers,
and all the motley tribe of quacks_, empirics, and
charlatans.
BBILOSOPHICAL DELUSIONS. 8
But, in narrating the career of spch men, it will
be found that many of them united seve~al or all
of the functions just .~enti~ned; that the alohy-
mist was a fortune-teller, or a necromancer - that
be pretended to cure all maladies by touch or
charm, and to work miracles of every kind. In
the dark and early ages of European history, this
is more. especially the case. Even as we advance
to more recent periods, we shall find great difficulty
in separating· the characters. The alchymist sel-
dom confined himself strictly to his pretended sci-
ence - the sorcerer and necromancer to theirs, or
the medical charlatan to his. Beginning with
alchymy, some confusion of these classes is una-
voidable; but the ground will clear for us as we
advance.
Let us not, in the pride of our superior know-
ledge, turn with contempt from the follies of ·
our predecessors. The study of the errors into
which great minds have fallen in the pursuit of
truth can ne-ver be uninstructive. As the man
looks back to the days of his childhood and his
youth, and recalls to his mind the strange notions
and false opinions that swayed his actions at that
time, that he may wonder at them, so should so-
ciety, for its edification, look back to the opinions
which governed the ages fled. He is but a super-
ficial thinker who would despise and refuse to hear
of them merely because they are absurd. No man
is so wise but that he may learn some wisdom from
B2
1\
PH1LOSOPHICAL DELUSIONS.
his past errors, either of thought or action, and
no society has made such.advances as to be capable
of no improvement from the retrospect of its past
folly and credulity. And not only is such .a study
instructive: be who reads for amusement only,
will find no chapter in the annals of the human
mind more amusing than this. It opens out the
whole realm of fiction-the wild, the fantastic, and
the wonderful, and a11 the immense variety of
things " that are not, and cannot be; but that
have been imagined and believed.,.
5
BOOK I.
THE ALCHYMISTS; .
SEARCHERS FOR THE PHILOSOPHER'S STONE
THE WATER OF LIFE.
ctMercury (loquitur).-The mischiefa secret any ofthem know,
above the conswning of coals and drawing of usquebaugh ! How-
&oever they may pretend, under the specious names of Geber,
Arnold, Lulli, or bombast of Hohenheim, to commit miracles in
art, and treason against nature ! As if the title of philosopher, that
Cireature ofglory, were to be fetched out of a furnace I I am their
crude, and their sublimate, their precipitate, and their unctions;
their male and their female, sometimes their hermaphrodite-what
they list to style me ! They will calcine yo11 a grave matron,
as it might be a mother of the maids, and spring 11p a young virgin
out ofher ashes, as fresh as a phamix; lay you an old collttier on
the coals, like a sausage or a bloat-herring, and, after they have
broiled him enough, blow a soul into him, with a pair of bellows!
See! they begin to muster again, and draw their forces out against
me! Thegenius of the place defend me 1"- BBN JoNSON's Masque
<r Mercwry tJindiMtedf
rom tlte Alchymi8t8."
6
THE ALCHYMISTS.
PART I.
HISTORY OF ALCBYMY PROM THE EARLIEST PERIODS
TO THE FIFTEENTH CENTURY,
Pl\BTBNDBD ANTIQUITY OF TB.B ABT.--GKBBB.- Al.PAB..
UII•..-.Ul•
CBNNA. -AL11R&TU8 MAGNUS.- TBOllfAB AQUINA8.-ABTBPBIU8.
-ALAIN DB LIBLB.-ABNOLD DB VJLLBNBUVB.-PIBTBO D
1
APONE.
-RAYMOND LUt.LI.-BOO.BR BACON.-POPB .JOHN XXIt,-.JBAN
DB KBUNG.-NTOBOLAB PLA.l4BL.--oi!OBOB JUPLJIY.-BA9IL VALBN•
TINJ!.-BBRNABD OP TmtVBs.-TBITBB»ro:s.-THB KA.BJ!ImAL n.a
lUYB.-UOQUl!B C<Eutt.-INnRJOB ADEPTS.
FoR more than a thousand years the ~rt of al.
chymy captivated many noble spirits, and was be.
Iieved in by millions. Its origin is involved in
obsc;:urity. Some of its devotees have claimed for
it an antiquity coeval with the creation ofIJl&n him-
self; others, again, would trace it no further back
than the time of Noah. Vincent de Beauvais
argues, indeed, that all the antediluvians must have
possessed aknowledge ofalcbymy; and particularly
cites Noah as having been acquainted with the
elirir vitce, or he could not have lived to so pro-
digious an age, and have begotten children when
upwards of five hundred. Lenglet du Fresnoy, in
his u History of the Hermetic Philosophy," says,
"Most ofthem pretended that Shem, or Chem, tbe
THE ALCHYMISTS. 7
son of Noah, was an adept in the art, and thought it
. highly probablethat thewords cl•emistry and alchymy
were both derived from his name." Others say,
the art was derived from the Egyptians, amongst
whom it was first founded by Hermes Trismegistus.
Moses, who is looked upon as a first-rate alchymist,
gained his knowledge in Egypt; but he kept it all
to himself, and would ~ot instruct the children of
Israel in its mysteries. All the writers upon alchymy
triumphantly cite the story ofthe golden calf, in the
82nd chapter of Exodus, to prove tbat this great
lawgiver ·was an adept, and could make or unmake
gold at his pleasure~ It is recorded, that Moses
was so wroth with the Israelites for their idolatry,
"that he took the calf which they had made, and
burned it in the fire, and ground it to powder, and
strewed it upon the water, and made the children of
Israel drink of it.., This, say the alchymists, be
never couldhave done, had he not been in possession
of the philosopher's stone; by no other means could
he have made the powde~ of gold float upon the
water. But we must leave this knotty point for the
consideration of the adepts in the art, if any such
there be, and come to more modem periods ofit&
history. The Jesuit, Father Martini, in his u His-
toria Sinica," says, it was practised by the Chinese
two thousand five hundred years before the birth
of Christ ; but his assertion, being unsupported, is
worth nothing. It would appear, however, that
pretenders to the art of making gold and silver ex-
8 THE ALCHYMISTS.
is"ted in Rome in the first centuries after the Chris-
tian era, and that, when discovered, they were
liable to punishment as knaves and impostors. At
Constantinople, in the fourth century, the transmu-
tation of metals was very generally believed in, and
many of the Greek ecclesiastics wrote trea~ises upon
the subject. Their names are preserved, and some
notice of their works given, in the third volume of
Lenglet du Fresnoy's u History of the Hermetic
Philosophy." Their notion appears to have been,
that all metals were composed of two substances;.
the one, metallic earth; and the other, a red in-
flammable matter, which they called sulphur. The
pure union of these substances formed gold ; but
other metals were mixed with and contaminated by
various foreign ingredients. The object of the phi-
losopher's stone was to dissolve or neutralize all
these ingredients, by which iron, lead, copper, and
all metals would be transmuted into the original
gold. Many learned and clever men wasted their
time, their health, and their energies, in this vain
pursuit; but for several centuries it took no great
hold upon the imagination of the people. The his-
tory of the delusion appears, in a manner, lost from
this time till the eighth century, when it appeared
amongst the Arabians. From this period it becomes
easier to trace its progress. A master then appear-
ed, who was long looked upon as the father of the
science, and whose name is indissolubly connected
with it.
THE ALCHYMISTS. 9
GEBER.
Of this philosopher, who devoted his life to the
study of alchymy, but few particulars are known.
He is thought to have lived in the year 780. His
true name was Abou Moussah Djafar, to which
was added AI Soft, or u The Wise," and he was
born at Hauran, in Mesopotamia.• Some have
thought he was a Greek, others a Spaniard, and
others, a prince of Hindostan : but, of all the mis-
takes which have been made respecting him, the
most ludicrous was that made by the French trans-
lator of Sprenger's u History of Medicine," who
thought, from the sound of his name, that be was a
(Jerman, and rendered it as the "Donnateur," or
Giver. No details of his life are known; but it is
asserted, that he wrote more than five hundred
works upon the philosopher's stone and the water
of life. He was a great enthusiast in his art, and
compared the incredulous to little children shut up
in a narrow room, without windows or aperture,
who, because they saw nothing beyond, denied the
existence of the great globe itself. He thought
that a preparation of gold would cure all maladies,
not only in man, but in the inferior animals and
plants. He also imagined that all the metals la-
boured under disease, with the exception of gold,
which was the only one in perfect health. He
affirmed, that the secret of the philosopher's stone
• " Biographie Universelle."
I t
10 TH'E ALCHYMISTS.
bad been more than once discovered ; but that the
ancient and wise men who had hit upon it, would
never, by word or writing, communicate it to men,
because oftheir unworthiness and incredulity.• But
the life ofGeber, though spent in the pursuit oftbis
vain chimera, was not altogether useless. He stum-
bled upon discoveries which he did not seek, and
science is indebted to him for the first mention of
corrosive sublimate, the red oxide ofmercury, nitric
acid, and the nitrate of silver.t
For more than two hundred years after the death
of Geber, the Arabian philosophers devoted them-
selves to the study of alchymy, joining with it that
of astrology. Of these the most celebrated was
ALFARABl.
Alfarabi flourished at the commencement of the
tenth century, and enjoyed the reputation of being
one of the most learned men of his age. He spent
his life in travelling from country to country, that
• His «sum of perfection," or instruetiom t.o students to aid
them in the laborious search for the et.one and elixir, has been
translated into most of the languages of Europe. An English
translation, by a great enthusiast in alcbymy, one Richard Russell,
was published in London in 1686. The preface. is dated eight
years previously, from the house of the alchymiat, "at the Star, in
Newmarket, in Wapping, near the Dock." His design in under·
taking the translation was~ as he informs us, to expose the false
pretences of the many ignorant pretenders to the science who
abounded in his day.
t Article, Geber, « Biographie Universelle." -
--~
THE ALCHYMISTS. 11
he might gather the opinions of philosophers upon
the great secrets of nature. No danger dismayed ,.
him; no toil wearied him of the pursuit. Many
sovereigns endeavoured to retain him at their courts;
but he refused to rest until he had discovered the
great object of his life-the art ofpreserving it for
centuries, and ofmaking gold as much as he needed.
This wandering mode of life at last proved fatal to
him. He had been on a visit to Mecca, not so
much for religious as for philosophical purposes,
when, returning through Syria, he stopped at the
court ofthe Sultan Seifeddoulet, who was renowned
as the patron of learning. He presented himselfin
his travelling attire, in the presence of that mo-
narch and his courtiers ; and, without invitation,
coolly sat himself down ~pon the sofa, beside the
Prince. The courtiers and me men were indig-
nant ; and the Sultan, who did not know the in-
truder, was at first inclined to follow their example.
He turned to one of his officers, and ordered him to
eject the presumptuous stranger from the room ;
but Alfarabi, without moving, dared them to lay
hands upon him; and, turning himself calmly to the
prince, remarked, that he did not know· who was
his guest, or he would treat him with honour, not
with violence. The Sultan, instead of being still
further incensed, as many potentates would have
been, admired his coolness; and, requesting him to
sit still closer to him on the sofa, entered into a long
conversation with him upon science and divine phi-
1\
I~ THE ALCHYMISTS.
losophy.· 'All th'e court were charmed with the'
stranger. Questions for discussion were propound-
ed, on all of which he showed superior knowledge.
He convinced every one that ventured to dispute
with him; and spoke so eloquently upon the science
of alchyniy, that he was at once recognised as only
second to the great Geber himself. One of the
doctors present inquired whether a man who knew
so many sciences was acquainted with music ? Al-
farabi made no reply, but merely requested that
a lute should be brought him. The lute was
brought; and he played such ravishing and tender
melodies, that all the court were melted into tears.·
He theJl changed his theme, and played airs so
sprightly, that he set the grave philosophers, Sultan
and all, dancing as fast as their legs could carry
them. He then sobered them again by a mournful
strain, and made them sob and sigh as if broken-
hearted. The Sultan, highly delighted with his
powers, entreated him tp stay, offering him every
inducement that wealth, power, and dignity could
supply; but the alchymist resolutely refused, it
being:decreed, he saidJ that he should never repose
till he had discovered the philosopher's stone. He
set out accordingly the same evening, and was mur-
dered by some thieves in the deserts of Syria. His
biographers give no further particulars of his !ife
beyond mentioning, that he wrote several valua-
ble treatises on his art, all of which, however, have
been lost. His death happened in the year 954.
THE ALCHYMISTS.
AVICENNA.
Avicenna, whose real name was Ebn Cinna,
another great alchymist, was bom at Bokhara, in
980. His reputation as a physician and .a ma1,1
skilled in all sciences was so great, that the Sultan
Magdal l)ouleth resolved to try his powers in the
great science of government. He was accordingly
made Grand Vizier of that Prince, and ruled the
state with some advantage : but, in a science still
more difficult, he failed completely. He could not
rule his own passions, but gave himself up to wine
and women, and led a life of shameless debauchery.
Amid the multifarious pursuits of business and plea-
sure, he nevertheless found time to write seven trea-
tises .upon the philosopher's stone, which were for
many ages looked upon as of great value by pre.:
tenders to the art. It is rare that an eminent phy-
sician, as Avicenna appears to have been, abandons
himself to sensual gratification ; but so completely·
did he become enthralled in the course of a few
years, that he was dismissed from his high office,
and died shortly afterwards, of premature old age
and a complication of maladies, brought on by de-
bauchery. His death took place in the year 1086.
After his time, few philosophers of any note in
Arabia are heard of as devoting th.euiselves to the
study of alchymy; but it began shortly afterwards·
to attract greater attention in Europe. . Learned
men in France, England, Spain, and Italy expressed
1\
u. THE A.LCHYMISTS.
their belief in the science, and many devoted their
whole energies to it. In the twelfth and thirteenth
centuries especially, it was extensively pursued, and
some ofthe brightest names ofthat age are connected
with it. Among the most eminent of them are
ALBERTUS MAGNus and Tuows AQUINA.
The first of these philosophers was born in the
year 1193; of a noble family at Lawingen, in the
duchy of Neuburg, on the Danube. For the first
thirty years ofhis life, he appeared remarkably dull
and.stupid, and it was feared by every one that no
good could come of him~ He entered a Dominican
monastery at an early age; but made so little pro-
gress in his studies, that he was more than once
upon the point of abandoning them in despair'; but
he was endowed with extraordinary perseverance.
As he advanced to middle age, his mind expanded,
and he learned whatever he applied himself to with
extreme facility. So remarkable a cltange was not,
in that age, to be accounted for but by a miracle.
It was asserted and believed that the Holy Virgin,
touched with his great desire to become learned
and famous, took pity upon his incapacity, and
appeared to him in the cloister where he sat, al-.
most despairing, and asked him whether he wish.
ed to excel in philosophy or divinity. He chose
philosophy, to the chagrin of the Virgin, who
reproached him in mild and sorrowful accents
1\
THE ALCHYMlSTS. 15
that he had not made a better choice. She, bow-
ever, granted his request that he should become
the most excellent philosopher of the age ; but set
this drawback to his pleasure, that be should re-
lapse, when at the height of his fame, into his
former incapacity and stupidity. Albertus ~ever
- took the trouble to contradict the story, but pro-
secuted his studies with such unremitting zeal that
his reputation speedily spread over all Europe.. In
the year 124t4., the celebrated Thomas Aquinas
placed himself under his tuition. Many extraordi-
nary stories are told of the master and his pupil.
While they.paid all due attention to other branches
of science, they never neglected the pursuit of the
philosopher's stone and the eli.1:ir vita. Although
they discovered neither, it was believed that Albert
bad sei.~ed some portion of the secret of life, and
found means to animate a brazen statue, upon the
formation of which, under proper conjunctions of
the planets, he bad been occttpied many years
of his life. He and Thomas Aquinas completed it
together, endowed it with the faculty of speech,
and made it perform the functions of a domestic
servant. In this capacity it was exceedingly use-
ful ; but, through some defect in the·machinery,
it chattered much more than was agreeable to
either philosopher. Various remedies were tried
to cure it of its garrulity, but in vain ; and one
day Thomas Aquinas was so enraged at the noise
it made, when he was in the midst of a mathemati-
16 THE ALCHYMISTS.
cal problem, that ~e seized a ponderous hammer
and smashed it to pieces.• He was souy after-
wards for what he had done, and was reproved by
his master for giving way to his anger1 so unbe-
coming in a philosopher. They made ·no attempt
to re-animate the statue.
Such stories as these show the spirit of tbe age.
Every great man who attempted to study the secrets
of nature was thought a magician ; and it is not t<>
)>e wondered at that, when philosophers themselves
pretended to discover an elixir for conferring im-
ptortality, or a red stone which was to create bound-
less wealth, .tHat popular opinion should have en-
hanced upon their pretensions, and have endowed
~hem with powers still ~ore miraculous. It was
pelieved of Albertus Magnus that he could even
change the course of the seasons ; a feat which
the many thought Jess difficult than the di~covery
of the grand elixir. Albertus was desirous of ob-
taining a piece of ground on which to build a
monastery, in the neighbourhood of Cologne. The
ground belonged to William, Count of Holland and
}{ing of the Romans, who, for some reason or other,
did not wish to part with it. Albertus is reported
to have gained it by the following extraordinary
method :-He invited the Prince, as he was passing
through Cologne, to a magnificent entertainment
prepared for him and all his court. The Prince
• Naude, " Apologie dea Grands Hommes accuses de Magie;"
chap. XYi.ii.
1\
THE ALCHYMISTS. 17
accepted it,. and repaired with a lordly retinue to
the residence of the sage. It was in the midst of
winter; the Rhine was frozen over, and the cold
was so bitter that the knights could not sit on
horseback without running the risk of losing their
toes by the frost. Great, therefore, was their sur-
prise, on arriving at Albert's house, to find that the
repast was spread in his garden, in which the snow
had drifted to the depth of several feet. The Earl,
in high dudgeon, remounted his steed; but Albert
at last prevailed upon him to take his seat at
the table. He had no sooner done so, than the
dark clouds rolled away from the sky- a warm
sun shone forth -the cold north wind veered sud-
denly round, and blew a mild breeze from the south
- ·the snows melted away- the ice was unbound
upon the streams, and the trees put forth their
green leaves and their fruit- flowers sprang up
beneath their feet, while larks, nightingales, black-
birds, cuckoos, thrushes, and every sweet song-bird,
sang hymns from every tree. The Earl and his
attendants wondered greatly; but they ate their
dinner, and in recompence for it, Albert got his
piece of ground to build a convent on. He had
not, however, shown them all his power. Im-
mediately that the repast was over, he gave the
word, and dark clouds obscured the sun -the snow
fell in large flakes -the t~inging-birds fell dead-
the leaves dropped ·from the trees, and the winds
VOL. Ill. c
18 THE ALCHYMig}'S.
blew so cold, and howled so mournfully, that the
guests wrapped themselves up in their thick cloaks,
and retreated into the house to warm themselves
at the blazing fire in Alber~s kitchen.•
ThomasAquinas also could work wonders as well
as his master. It is related of him, that he lodged
in a street at Cologne, where be was much annoyed
by the incessant clatter made by the horses' ho.ofs,
as they were led through it daily to exercise by
their grooms. He had entreated the latter to se-
lect some other spot where they might not disturb
a philosopher, hut the grooms turned a deaf ear
to all his solicitations. In this emergency be had
recourse to the aid of magic. He constructed a
small horse of bronze, upon which he inscribed cer-
tain cabalistic characters, and buried it at midnight
in the midst of the highway. The next morning,
a troop of grooms came riding along as usual; but
the horses, as they arrived at the spot where the
magic horse was buried, reared and plunged vio-
lently- their nostrils distended with terror- their
manes grew erect, and the perspiration ran down
their sides in streams. In vain th~ riders ap-
plied the spur - in vai.n they coaxed or threaten-
ed, the animals would not pass the spot. On
the following day, their success was no better..
They were at length compelled to seek another
• Lenglet1 " Histoire de la Philo.sophie Hennetique." See alBo,
Godwin's « Lives of the Necromancers.''
THE ALCJJYMISTS. 19
spot for their exercise, and Thomas Aquinas was
left in peace.•
Albertus Magnus was made Bishop of Ratisbon
in 1259; but he occupied the See only four years,
when he resigned, on the ground that its duties
occupied too much of the time which he was
anxious to devote to philosophy. He died in
Cologne in 1280, at the advanced age of eighty-
seven. The Dominican writers deny that be ever
sought the philosopher's stone, but his treatise
upon minerals sufficiently proves that be did.
ARTBPBIUS.
Artepbius, a name noted in the annals of al-
cbymy, was born in the early part of the twelfth
century. He wrote two famous treatises; the one
upon the pbilosopber•s stone, and the ot~er on the
art of prolonging human life. In the latter be.
vaunts his great qualifications for instructing man-
kind on such a matter, as he was at that time
in the thousand and twenty-fifth year of his age I
He had many disciples who believed in his extreme
age, and who attempted _
to prove that he was
Apollonius of Tyana, who lived soon after the ad-
vent of Jems Christ, and the particulars of whose
life and pretended miracles have been so fully
described by Philostratus. He took good care
• Naude, "Apologie des Grande Hommes accuses de Magie;..
ehap. xvii.
1\ • IJ I
20 THE ALCHYMISTS.
never to contradict a story, which so much in-
creased the power he was desirous of wielding
over his fellow-mortals. On all convenient occa-
sions, he boasted of it ; and having an excellent
memory, a fertile imagination, and a thorough
knowledge of all existing history, he was never at
a Joss for an answer when questioned as to the
persona] appearance, the manners, or the charac-
ter of the great men of antiquity. He also pre-
tended to have found the philo11opher's stone ; and
said that, in search of it, he had descended to heJl,
and seen the devil sitting on a throne of gold,
with a legion of imps and fiends around him.
His works on alchymy have been translated into
French, and were published in Paris in 1609
or 1610.
ALAIN DE LISLE.
Contemporary with Albertus Magnus was Alain
de Lisle, of Flanders, who was named, from his
great learning, the u universal doctor." He was
thought to possess a knowledge of all the sciences,
and, like Artephlus, to have discovered the eli.rir
vita. He became one of the friars of the abbey of
Citeaux, and died in 1298, aged about one hundred
and ten· years. It was said of him, that he was
at the point of death when in his fiftieth year ; but
.that the fortunate discovery of the elixir enabled
him to add sixty years to his existence. He wrote
a commentary on the prophecies of Merlin.
1\ I I
.
• THE ALCliYMISTS. 21
ARNOLD DE VILLENBUVB,
This philosopher has left a much gr~ater repu-
tation. He was born in the year 1245, and studied
medicine with great success in the University of
Paris. He afterwards travelled for twenty years in
Italy and Germany, where he made acquaintance
with Pietro d'Apone; a man of a character akin to
his own, and addicted to the same pursuits. As
a physician, he was thought, in his own lifetime,
to be the most able the world had ever seen. Like
a1l the Jearned men of that day, he dabbled in
astrology and alchymy, and was thought to have
made immense quantities of gold from lead and
copper. When Pietro d'Apone was arrested in
Italy, and brought to trial as a sorcerer, a similar
accusation was made against Arnold ; but he ma-
naged to leave the country in time and escape the
fate of his unfortunate friend. He lost some credit
by predicting the end of the world, but afterwards
regained it. The time of his death is not exactly
known; but it must have been prior to the year
1811, when Pope Clement V. wrote a circular let-
ter to all the clergy of Europe who lived under
his obedience, praying them to use their utmost
efforts to discover the famous treatise of Arnold
on " The Practice of Medicine:• The author had
promised, during his lifetime, to make a present of
the work to the Holy See, but died without fulfil-
ling it.
In a very curious work by Monsieur Longeville
THE ALCHYMISTS.
Harcouet, entitled u The History of the Persons
who have lived several centuries, and then grown
young again," there is a receipt, said to have been
given byArnold deVilleneuve, bymeans ofwhich any
one might prolong his life for a few hundred years
or so. In the first place, say Arnold and Mon-
sieur Harcouet, " the person,intending so to pro-
long his life must rub himself well, two or three
times a week, with the juice or marrow of cassia
(mocme, de la casse). Every night, upon going
to bed, he must put upon his heart a plaster,
composed of a certain quantity of Oriental
saffron, red rose-leaves, sandal-wood, aloes, and
amber, liquified in oil of roses and the best white
wax. In the morning, he must take it off, and
enclose it carefully in a leaden box till the next
night, when it must be again applied. If he be
of a sanguine temperament, he shall take sixteen
chickens-ifphlegmatic, twenty-five- and if me-
lancholy,. thirty, which he shall put into a yard
where the air and the water are pure. Upon these
he is to feed, eating one a day ; but previously the
chickens are to be fattened by a peculiar method,
which will impregnate their flesh with the qualities
that are to produce longevity in the eater. lJeing
deprived of all other nourishment till they are al-
most dying of hunger, they are to be fed upon
broth made of serpents and vinegar, which broth
is to be thickened with wheat and bran." Various
ceremonies are to be performed in the cooking of
•
THE ALCHYMISTS.
this mess, which those may see in the book of
M. Harcouet, who are at all interested in the mat--
ter ; and the chickens are to be fed upon it for two
months. They are then fit for table, and are to be
washed down with moderate quantities of good
white wine or claret. This regimen is to be fol-
lowed regularly every seven years, and ·any one
may live to be as old as Methuselah! It is right
to state, that M. Harcouet bas but little autho-
rity for attributing this precious composition to
Arnold of Villeneuve. It is not to be found in
the collected works of that philosopher ; but was
first brought to light by a M. Poirier, at the com-
mencement of the sixteenth century, who asserted
that he had discovered it in MS. in the undoubted
writing of Arnold.
PIETRO D'APONB.
This unlucky sage was born at Apone, near Pa-
dua, in the yeat' li50. Like his friend Arnold de
Villeneuve, he was ari eminent physician, and a pre-
tender to the arts of astrology and alchymy. He
practised for many years in Paris, and made great
wealth by killing and curing, and telling fortunes.
In an evil day for him, he returned to his own
country, with the reputation ofbeing a magician of
the first order. It was universally believed that he
had drawn seven evil spirits from the infernal re-
gions, whom he kept enclosed in seven crystal vases,
until he required their services, when he sent them
24 TfJE ALCHYMISTS.
forth to the ends of the earth to execute his plea-
sure. One spirit excelled in philosophy ; a second,
in alchymy; a third, in astrology; a· fourth, in
physic; a fifth, in poetry ; a sixth, in music ; and
the seventh, in painting : and whenever Pietro
wi$hed for information or instruction in any of
these arts, he bad only to go to his crystal vase, and
liberate the presiding spirit. Immediately, all the
secrets of the art were revealed to him ; and he
might, if it pleased him, excel Homer in poetry,
Apelles in painting,,or Pythagoras himself in phi-
losophy. Although be could make gold out of
brass, it was said of him, that be was very sparing
of his powers in that respect, and kept himself
constantly supplied with money by other and less
creditable means. Whenever he disbursed gold,
he muttered a certain charm, known only to him-
self; and next morning the gold was safe again in
his own possession. The trader to whom he gave
it, might lock it in his strong box, and have it
guarded by a troop of soldiers; but the charmed
metal flew back to its old master. Even if it were
buried in the earth, or thrown into the sea, the
dawn of the next morning would behold it in the
pockets ofPietro. Fewpeople, in consequence, liked
to have dealings with such a personage, especially
for gold. Some, bolder than the rest, thought that
his power did not extend over silver ; but, when
they made the experiment, they found themselves
mistaken. Bolts and bars could not restrain it,
THE ALCllYMlSTS. 25
and it sometimes became invisible in their very
hands, and was whisked through the air to the
purse of the magician. He necessarily acquired a'
very bad character; and, having given utterance to
some sentiments regarding religion which were the
very reverse of orthodox, he was summoned before
the tribunals of the Inquisition to answer for his
crimes as a heretic and a sorcerer. He loudly pro--
tested his innocence, evei). upon the rack, where he
suffered more torture than nature could support.
He died in prison ere his trial was concluded, but
'!as afterwards found guilty. His bones were or-
dered to be dug up, and publicly burned. He was
also burned in effigy in the streets ofPadua.
RAYMOND LOLLI.
While Arnold de Villeneuve and Pietro d'Apooe
flourished in France and Italy, a more celebrated
adept than either appeared in Spain. This was
Raymond Lulli, a name which stands in the first
rank among the alchymists. Unlike many of his
predecessors, he made no pretensions to astrology
or necromancy ; but, taking Geber for his model,
studied intently the nature and composition of
metals, without reference to charms, incantations,
or any foolish ceremonies. It was not, however, till
late in life that he commenced his study of the art.
His early and middle age were spent in a different
manner, and his whole history is romantic in the ex-
treme. He was born of an illustrious family, in
-~
THE ALCHYMISTS.
Majorca, in the year 1285. When that island was
taken from the Saracens by James I, King of Ara~
·goo, in 1230, the father of Raymond, who was
originally of Catalonia, settled there, and received
a considerable appointment from the Crown. Ray-
mond married at an early age; and, being fond
of pleasure, he left the solitudes of his native isle,
and passed over with his bride into Spain. He was
made Grand Seneschal at the court of King James,
and led a gay life for several years. Faithless to
his wife, he was always in the pursuit of some new
beauty, till his heart was fixed at last by the lovely,
but unkind Ambrosia de Castello. This lady, like
her admirer, was married ; but, unlike him, was
faithful to her vows, and treated all his solicitations
with disdain. Raymond was so enamoured, that
J'epulse only increased his flame ; he lingered all
night under her windows, wrote paesionate verses
in her praise, neglected his affairs, and made him-
self the butt of all the courtiers. One day, while
watching under her lattice, he by chance caught
sight of her bosom, as her n_
eckerchief was blown
aside by the wind. The fit of inspiration came
over him, and he sat down and composed some ten-
der stanzas upon the subject, and sent them to the
lady. The fair Ambrosia bad never before con-
descended to answer his letters; out she replied to
this. She told him, that she could never listen to
his suit ; that it was unbecoming in a wise man to
fix his thoughts, as be bad done, on any other than
THE ALCHYMISTS. i7
his God ; and entreated him to devote himae1f to
a religious life, and conquer the unworthy passion
which he had suffered to consume him. She, how-
ever, offered, if he wished it, to show him the fair
·bosom which had so captivated him.. Raymond wa.s
delighted. He thought the latter part ofthis epistle
but ill corresponded with the former, and that Am-
brosia, in spite of the good advice she gave him,
had, at last, relented, and would make him as hap-
pyas he desired. He followed her about from place
to place, entreating her to fulfil her promise : but
still Ambrosia was cold, and implored him with
tears to importune her no longer ; for that she
never could be his, and .never would, if she were
free to-morrow. "mat means your letter, then?"
said the despairing lover. 11
I will show you l" rea
·plied Ambrosia, who immediately uncovered her
bosom, and exposed to the eyes ofher horror-strick-
en admirer, a large cancer, which had extended to
both breasts. She saw that he was shocked ; and,
extending her hand to him, she prayed him·once
more to lead a religious life, and set his heart upon
the Creator, and not upon the creature, He went
home an altered inan. He threw up, on the mor-
row, his valuable appointment at the court:, sepa-
rated from his wife, and took a farewell of his chiJ,;
dren, after dividing one-half of his ample fortune
among them. The other half be shared among the
poor. He then threw himself at the foot of a cru-.
citix, and devoted himself to the service of God,
{ 1\
28 THE ALCHYMISTS.
vowing, as the most acceptable atonement for his
errors, that he would employ the remainder of his
days in the task of converting the Mussulmans to
the Christian religion. In his dreams he saw Jesus
Christ_. who said to him, " Raymond ! Raymond !
follow me !" The vision was three times repeated,
and Raymond was convinced that it was an intima-
tion direct from Heaven. Having put his affairs in
order, he set out -on a pilgrimage to the shrine
of St. James. of Compostello, and afterwards lived
for ten years in· solitude amid the mountains of
Aranda. Here he learned the Arabic, to qualify
himself for his mission of converting the Mahomet-
ans. He also studied various sciences, as taught
in the works of the learned men of the East, and
first made acquaintance with the writings of Geber,
which were destined to exercise so much influence
over his future life.
At the end of this probation, and when he had
entered his fortieth year, he emerged from his soli-
tude into more active life. With some remains of
his fortune, which had accumulated during his re-
tirement, he founded a college for the study of
Arabic, which was approved of oy the Pope, with
many commendations upon his zeal and piety. At
this time he narrowly escaped assassination from an
Arabian youth whom he had taken into his service.
Raymond had prayed to God, in some of his ac-
cesses offanaticism, that he might suffer martyrdom
in his holy cause. His servant had overheard him;
1\
THE ALCHYMlSTS. 29
and, being as great a fanatic as his master, he re-
solved to gratify his wish, and punish him,.at the
same time, for the curses which he incessantly
launched against Mahomet and all who believed in
him, by stabbing him to the heart. He, therefore,
aimed a blow at his master, as he sat one day at
table; but the instinct of self-preservation being
stronger than the desire of martyrdom, Raymond
grappled with his antagonist, and overthrew him.
He scorned to take his life himself; but banded him
over to the authorities of the town, by whom he was
afterwards found dead in his prison.
After this adventure Raymond travelled to Paris,
where he resided for some time, and made the ac-
quaintance of Arnold de Villeneuve. From him he
probably received some encouragement to search
for the philosopher's stone, as he began (rom that
time forth to devote less of his attention to religious
matters, and more to the study of alchymy. Still
he never lost sight of the great object for which be
lived- the conversion of the Mahometans- and
proceeded to Rome, to communicate personally with
Pope John XXI, on the best measures to be adopted
for that end. The Pope gave him encouragement
in words, but failed to associate any other persons
~th him in the enterprise which he meditated.
Raymond, therefore, set out for Tunis alone, and
was kindly received by many Arabian philosophers,
who bad heard of his fame as a professor of al-
chymy. If he bad stuck to alchymy while in their
30 THE ALCHYMISTS.
country, it would have been well for him ; but he
began cursing Mahomet, and got himselfinto trou-
ble. While preaching the doctrines of Christianity
in the great bazaar of T\mis, he was arrested and
thrown into prison. He was shortly afterwards
brought to trial, and sentenced to death. Some of
his philosophic friends interceded hard for him, and
he was pardoned, upon condition that be left Africa
immediately, and never again set foot in it. If be
was found there again, no matter what his object
might be, or whatevel' length of time might inter-
vene, his original sentence wouJd be carried into
execution. Raymond was not at all solicitous of
martyrdom when it came to the point, whatever be
might have been when there was no danger, and
be gladly accepted his life upon these conditions,
and left Tunis with the intention of proceeding to
Rome. He afterwards changed his plan, and esta-.
blished himself at 1\filan, where, for a length of
time, he practised alchymy, and some say astrology,
with great success.
Most writers who believed in the secrets of al..
chymy, and who have noticed the life of Raymond
Lulli, assert, that while in Milan, he received let-
ters from Edward King of England, inviting him to
settle in his states. They add, that Lulli gladly
accepted the invitation, and bad apartments assign-
ed for his use in the Tower of London, where he
refined much gold ; superintended the coinage of
" rose-nobles;, and made gold out of iron, quick-
THE ALCHYMISTS. 81
silver, lead, and pewter, to the amount of six mil-
lions. The writers in the ~· Biographie Uni-
verselle,•• an excellent authority in general, deny
that Raymond was ever in England, and say, that
in all these stories of his wondrous powers as an
alchymist, he has been mistaken for another Ray-
mond, a Jew, of Tarragons. Naude, in his ''Apo-
logie,.. says, simply, u that six millions were given
by Raymond Lulli to King Edward, to make war
against the Turks and other infidels :" not that he
transmuted so much metal into gold; but, as he
afterwards adds, that he advised Edward to lay
a tax upon wool, which produced tha,t amount. To
ahow that Raymond went to England, his admirers
quote a work attributed to him, "De Transmu-
tatione Animre Metallorum," in which he expressly
says, that he was in England at the intercession of
the King.• The hermetic writers are not agreed
whether it was Edward I, or Edward II, who in-
vited him over ; but, by fixing the date of his
journey in 1812, tiaey make it appear that it was
Edward II. .Edmond Dickenson, in his work on
the " Quintessences of the Philosophers," says, that
Raymond worked in Westminster Abbey, where,
a long time after his departure, there was found in
the cell which he had occupied, a great quantity of
goMen dust, of which the architects made a great
profii. In the biographical sketch of John Cremer,
• Vidimus OI'DJlia i.eta dum ad An!Jliam tramiimra, propter in-
terceuionem Domini Regi1 E®ardi tllratriuimi.
TH~ ALCHYMTSTS.
Abbot o{ Westminster~ given by Lenglet, it is said,
that it was chiefly through his instrumentality that
Raymond came to England. Cremer had been him-
self for thirty years occupied in the vain search for
the philosopher's stone, when he accidentally met
Raymond in Italy, and endeavoured to induce him
to communicate his grand secret. Raymond told
him that he must find it for himself, as all great al-
chymists had done before him. Cremer, on his re-
turn to England, spoke to King Edward in high
terms of the wonderful attainments of the philo-
sopher, and a letter of invitation was forthwith sent
him. Robert Constantinus, in the u Nomencla-
tore Scriptorum Medicorum,.. published in 1515,
says, that after a great deal of research, be found
that Raymond Lulli resided for some time in Lon-
don, and that he actually made gold, by means of
the philosopher's stone, in the Tower ; that he had
seen the golden pieces of his coinage, which were
still named in England the nobles of Raymond, .or
rose-nobles. Lulli himself appears to have boasted
that he made gold ; for, in his well-known rt Testa-
mentum,.. he states~ that he converted no less than
fifty thousand pounds weight of quicksilver, lead,
and pewter into that metal.• It seems highly
probable that the English King, believing in the
extraordinary powers of the alchymist, invited him
to England to make test of them. and that he
• Converti una vice in aurum ad L millis pondo argenti vivi,
plumbi, et atanni.-Lullii Tutamentum.
THE ALCHYMISTS. 88
was employed in refining gold and in coining.
Camden, who is not credulous in matters like
these, afFords his countenance to the story of his
coinage of nobles ; and there is nothing at all
wonderful in the fact of a man famous for his
knowledge of metals being employed in such a ca-
pacity. Raymond was, at this time, an old man,
in his seventy-seventh year, and somewhat in his
dotage. He was willing enough to have it believed
that he had discovered the grand secret, and sup-
ported the rumour rather than contradicted it. He
did not long remain in Eugland ; but returned to
Rome, to carry out the projects which were nearer
to his heart than the profession of alchymy. He
had proposed them to several successive Popes with
little or no success. The first was a plan for the in-
troduction of the Oriental languages into all the
monasteries of Europe; the second, for the reduc-
tion into one of all the military orders, that, being
united, they might move more efficaciously against
the Saracens ; and, the third, that the Sovereign
Pontiff should forbid the works of Averroes to be
read in the schools, as being more favourable to
Mahometanism than to Christianity. The Pope did
not receive the old man with much cordiality; and,
after remaining for about two years in Rome, he
proceeded once more to Africa, alone and unpro-
tected, to preach the Gospel of Jesus. He landed
at Bona in 1814; and so irritated the Mahome-
tans by cursing their prophet, that they stoned
VOL, Ill, f)
THE ALCHYMlSTS.
him, and left him for dead on the sea-shore. He
was found some hours afterwards by a party of
Genoese merchants, who conveyed him on board
their vessel, and sailed towards Majorca. The un-
fortunate man still breathed, but could not articu- ·
late. He lingered in this state for some days, and
expired just as the vessel arrived within sight of his
native shores. His body was conveyed with great
pomp to the church of St. Eulalia, at Palma, where
a public funeral was instituted in his honour. Mi-
racles were afterwards said to have been worked at
his tomb.
Thus ended the career of Raymond Lolli, one
of the most extraordinary men of his age ; and, with
the exception of his last boast about the six millions
of gold, the least inclined to quackery of any of the
professors of alcbymy. His writings were very
numerous, and include nearly five hundred volumes,
upon grammar, rhetoric, morals, theology, poli~
tics, civil and canon law, physics, metaphysics,
astronomy, medicine, and chemistry.
RoGER BACON.
The powerful delusion of alcbymy seized upon
a mind still greater than that of Raymond Lolli.
· Roger Bacon firmly believed in the philosopher's
stone, and spent much of his time in search of
it. His example helped to render all the learned
men of the time more convinced of its practica-
bility, and more eager in the pursuit. He Wtuf
THE ALCHYMISTS. 8S
born at Ilcbester, in the county of Somerset, in the
year 1214. He studied for some time in the uni.:
versity of Oxford, and afterwards in that of Paris,
in which he received the degre~ of doctor of di-
vinity. Returning to England in 1240, he became
a monk of the order of St. Francis. He was by
far the most learned man of his age ; and his ac-
quirements were so much above the comprehension
of his contemporaries,'that they could only account
for them by supposing that he was indebted for
them to the devil. Voltaire has not inaptly de-
signated him u De l'or encroute de toutes les or-
dures de son siecle ;,. but the crust of superstition
that enveloped his powerful mind, though it may
have dimmed, could not obscure the brightness of.
his genius. To him, and apparently to him only,
among all the inquiring spirits of the time, were
known the properties of the concave and convex
lens. He also invented the magic-lantern ; that
pretty plaything of modern days, which acquired
for him a reputation that embittered his life. In
a history of alchymy, the name of this great man
cannot be omitted, although, unlike many others
of whom we shall have occasion to speak, he only
made it secondary to other pursuits. The love of
universal knowledge that filled his mind, would not
allow him to neglect one branch of science, ofwhich
neither he nor the world could yet see .the ab-
surdity. He made ample amends for his time Jost
in this pursuit by his knowledge in physics and
D!e
36 THE ALCHYMISTS.
his acquaintance with astronomy, The telescope;
\ burning-glasses, and gunpowder, are discoveries
which may well carry his fame to the remotest
time, and make the world blind to the one spot
of fo11y-the diagnosis of the age in which he lived,
and the circumstances by which he was surround-
ed. His treatise on the " Admirable Power of Art
and Nature in the. Production of the Philosopher's
Stone, was translated into French by Girard de
Tormes, and published at Lyons in 1557. His
u Mirror of Alchymy" was also published in French
in the same year, all_d in Paris in 1612, with some
additions from the works of Raymond Lulli. A
complete list of all the published treatises upon the
subject may be seen in Lenglet du Fresnoy.
PoPE JoHN XXII.
Tqi1 Prelate is said to have been the friend and
pupil of Arnold de Villeneuve, by whom he was in-
structed in all the secrets of alchymy. Tradition
asserts of him, that he made great quantities of
gold, and died as rich as. Crresus. He was born
at Cahors, in the province of Guienne, in the year
1244.. He was a very eloquent preacher. and soon
reached high dignfty in the Cbwcb. He wrote a
work on the transmutation of metals, and had a
famous laboratory at Avignon. He issued two
Bulls against the numerous pretenders to. the art,
who had sprung up in every part of Christendom ;
from which it might be inferred that he was himself
THE ALCBYMISTS. 87
free from the delusion. The alchymists claim him,
however, as one of the most distinguished and suc-
cessful professors of their art, and say that his Bulls
were not directed against the real adepts, but the
false pretenders. They lay particular stress upon
these words in his Bull, u Spondent, quas non ex-
hibent, divitias, pauperes alchymistm." These, it is
clear, they say, relate only to poor alchymists, and
therefore false ones. He died in the year 1844,
leaving in his coffers a sum of eighteen millions
of florins. Popular belief alleged that he had
made, and not amassed, this treasure; and alchy-
mists complacently cite this as a proof that the
philosopher's stone was not such a chimera as the.
incredulous pretended. They take it for granted
that John really left this money, and ask by what
possible means he could have accumulated it. Re..;
plying to their own question, they say triumphant-
ly, " His book shows it was by alchymy, the secrets
of which he learned from Arnold de Villeneuve and
Raymond Lulli. But he was as prudent as all
other hermetic philosophers. Whoever would read
his book to find out his secret, would employ all
his labour in vain ; the Pope took good care not
to divulge it." Unluckily for their own credit, all
these gold-makers are in the same predicament ;
their great secret loses its worth most wonderfully
in the telling, and therefore they keep it snugly
to themselves. Perhaps they thought that, if every-
body could transmute metals, gold would be so
{ '
~.
88 THE· ALCHYMISTS.
plentiful that it would be no longer valuable, and
that some new art would be requisite to transmute
it back again into steel and iron. If so, society
is much indebted to them for their forbearance.
JEAN DE MEUNG.
AU classes of men dabbled in the art at this
time; the last mentioned was a Pope, the one of
whom we now speak was a poet. Jean de Meung,
the celebrated author of the "Roman de la Rose,"
was born in the year l ~79 or 1~80, and was a
great personage at the courts of Louis X, Philip
the Long, Charles IV, and Philip de Valois. His
famous poem of the "Roman de Ia Rose,'' which
treats of every subject in vogue at that day, neces-
sarily makes great mention of alchymy. Jean was
a firm believer in the art, and wrote, besides his
~· Roman," two shorter poems, the one entitled
'' The Remonstrance of Nature to the wandering
Alchymist,., and u The Reply of the Alchymist to
Nature." Poetry and alchymy were his delight,
and priests and women were hls abomination. A
pleasant story is related of him and the ladies of
the court of Charles IV. He had written the fol-
lowing libellous couplet upon the fair sex:-
u Toutea ~tea, aerez, ou rutea
De fait ou de volonte, putains,
Et qui, tres bien vous chercherait
Toutes putains, vous trouverait." •
• These verses are but a coarser expreaaion ofthe slanderous line
of Pope, that "every woman is at heart a rake."
1\ I
THE ALCHYMlSTS. 39
This naturally gave great offence ; and being per·
eeived one day, in the King's antechamber, by
some ladies who were waiting for an audience, they
resolved to punish him. To the number of ten or
twelve, they armed themselves with canes and rods;
and surrounding the unlucky poet, called upon the
gentlemen present to strip him naked, that they
might wreak just vengeance upon him, and lash
him through the streets of the town. Some of the
lords present were in no wise loth, and promised
· themselves great sport from his punishment. But
Jean de Meung was unmoved by their threats, and
stood up calmly in the midst of them, begging them
to hear him first, and then, if not satisfied, they
might do as they liked with him. Silence being
restored, he stood upon a chair, and entered on
his defence. He acknowledged that he was the
author of the obnoxious verses, but denied that they
bore reference to all womankind. He only meant
to speak of the vicious and abandoned, whereas
those whom he saw around him, were patterns of
virtue, loveliness, and modesty. If, however, any
lady present thought herself aggrieved, he would
consent to be stripped, and she might lash him till
her arms were wearied. It is added., that by this
means Jean escaped his flogging, and that the
wrath of the fair ones immediately subsided. The
gentlemen present were, however, of opinion, that
if every lady in the room, whose character corre..
sponded with the ver~es, had taken him at his word,
1\ (
40 THE AJJCHYMISTS.
the poet would, in all probability, have been beaten
to death. All his life long he evinced a great ani-
mosity towards the priesthood, and his famous
poem abounds with passages reflecting upon their
avarice, cruelty, and immorality. At his death he
left a large box, filled with some weighty mate-
rial, which he bequeathed to the Cordeliers, as a
peace-offering, for the abuse he had lavished upon
them. As his .practice of alchymy was well-known,
it was thought the box was filled with gold and
silver, and the Cordeliers congratulated each other
on their rich acquisition. When it came to be
opened, they found to their horror that it was
filJed only with slates, scratched with hieroglyphic
and cabalistic characters. Indignant at the insult,
they determined to refuse him Christian burial, on
pretence that he was a sorcerer. He was, how-
ever, honourably buried in Paris, the wltole court
attending his funeral.
NJCHOLAS FLAMEL.
The story of this alchymist, as handed down by
tradition, and enshrined in the pages of Leng-
let du Fresnoy, is not a little marvellous. He
was born at Pontoise of a poor but respectable
family, at the end of the thirteenth, or beginning of
the fourteenth, century. Having no patrimony, he
set out for Paris at an early age, to try his fortune
as a public scribe. He had received a good educa-
tion, was well ~skilled in the learned languages, and
THE ALCHYMISTS~ 41
was an excellent penman. He soon procU'red oc-
cupation as a letter-writer and copyist, and used
to sit at the corner of the Rue de Marivaux, and
practise his calling: but he hardly made profits
enough to keep body and soul together. To mend
his fortunes he tried poetry ; but this was a more
wretched occupation still. As a transcriber he had at
least gained bread and cheese ; but his rhymes were
not worth a crust. He then tried painting with as
little success ; and as a last resource, began to
search for the philosopher's stone, and tell fortunes.
This was a happier idea; he soon increased in sub-
stance, and had wherewithal to live comfortably.
He, therefore, took unto himself his wife Petro-
nella, and began to save money; but continued to
all outward appearance as poor and miserable as
before. In the course of a few years, he became
desperately addicted to the study of alchymy, and
thought of nothing but the philosopher's stone, the
elixir of life, and the universal alkahest. In the
year 1257, be bought by chance an old book for
two florins, which soon became the sole study and
object of his life. It was written with a steel in-
strument upon the bark of trees, and contained
twenty-one, or as he himself always expressed it,
three ti~es seven, leaves. The writing was very
elegant and in the L~tin language. Each seventh
leaf contained a picture and no writing. On the
first ,of these was a serpent swallowing rods ; on
the second, a cross with a serpent crucified ; and on
THE ALCHYMISTS.
the third, the representation of a desert, in the
midst of which was a fountain with serpents crawl-
ing from side to side. It purported to be written
by no less a personage than ~' Abraham, patriarch,
Jew, prince, philosopher, priest, Levite, and astro-
loger ·;" and invoked curses upon any one who
should cast eyes upon it, without being a sacrificer
or a ~cribe. Nicholas Flamel never thought it
extraordinary that Abraham should have known
Latin, and· ~as convinced that the characters on
his book had been traced by the hands of that
great patriarch himself. He was at first afraid to
read it, after he became aware of the curse it con-
tained ; but he got over that difficulty by recollect-
ing that, although he was not a sacrificer, he bad
practised as a scribe. As he read he was filled with
admiration, and found that it was a perfect treatise
upon the transmutation of metals. All the process
was clearly explained; the vessels, the retorts, the
mixtures, and the proper times and seasons for the
experiment. But as ill-luck would have it, the
possession of the philosopher's stone or prime agent
in the work was presupposed. This was a difficulty
which was not to be got over. It was like telling a
starving man how to cook a beefsteak, instead of
giving him the money to buy one. But Nicholas
did not despair; and set about studying the hiero-
glyphics and allegorical representations with which
the book abounded. He soon convinced himself
that it had been one of the sacred books of the
1\ I I\
THE ALCHYMISTS.
Jews, and that it was taken from the temple of
Jerusalem on its destruction by Titus. The pro-
cess of reasoning by which he arrived at this con-
clusion is not stated.
From some expression in the treatise, be learned
that the allegorical drawings on the fourth and fifth
leaves, enshrined the secret of the philosopher's
stone, without which all the fine Latin of the direc-
tions was utterly unavailing. He invited all the
alcbymists and learned men of Paris to come and
examine them, but they all departed as wise as they
came. Nobody could make anything either of
Nicholas or his pictures; and some even went so
far as to say that his invaluable book was not worth
a ~arthing. This was not to be borne ; and Ni-
cholas resolved to discover the great secret by him-
self, without 'troubling the philosophers. He found
on the first page, of the fourth leaf, the picture of
Mercury, attacked by an old man resembling Sa-
turn or Time. The latter had an hourglass on
his head, and in his hand a scythe, with which he
aimed a blow at Mercury's feet. The reverse _
of
the leaf represented a flower growing on a mountain
top, shaken rudely by the wind, with a blue stalk,
red,and white blossoms, and leaves of pure gold.
Around it were a great number of dragons ·and
griffins. On the first page of the fifth leaf was a.
fine garden, in the midst of which was a rose tree
in full bloom, supported against the trunk of a
gigantic oak. At the foot of this there bubbled up
TilE ALCllYMIST5~
a fountain of milk-white water, which forming a
small stream, flowed through the garden, and was
afterwards lost in the sands. On the second page
was a King, with ·a sword in his hand, superintend-
ing a number of soldiers, who, in execution of his
orders, were killing a great multitude of young
children, spurning the prayers and tears of their
mothers, who tried to save them from destruction.
The blood of the children was carefully collected
by another party of soldiers, and put into a large
vessel, in which two allegorical figures of the Sun
and Moon were bathing themselves.
For twenty-one years poor Nicholas wearied
himself with the study of these pictures, but still he
could make nothing of them. His wife Petronella
at last persuaded him to find out some learned
Rabbi ; but there was no Rabbi in Paris learned
enough to be of any service to him. The Jews met
butsmall encouragement to fix their abode in France,
and all the chiefs of that people were located in
Spain. To Spain accordingly Nicholas Flame!
repaired. He left his book in Paris for fear, per-
haps, that he might be robbed of it on .the road ;
and telling his neighbours that he was going on a
pilgrimage to the shrine of St. James·of Compos-
tello, he trudged on foot towards Madrid in search
of a Rabbi. He was absent two years in that coun-
try, and made himself known to a great number of
Jews, descendants of those who had been expelled
from France in the reign of Philip Augustus. The
THE ALCHYMISTS. 45
believers in the philosopher's stone give the follow-
ing account of his adventures :-They say that at
Leon he made the acquaintance of a converted Jew,
named Cauches, a very learned physician, to whom
he explained the title and the nature of his little
book. The Doctor was transported with joy as
soon as he heard it named, and immediately re-
solved to accompany Nicholas to Paris, that he
might have a sight of it. The two set out together;
the DoctQr on the way entertaining his companion
with the history of his book, which, if the genuine
book he thought it to be, from the description he
had heard of it, was in the handwriting of Abra-
ham himself, and had been in the possession of per-
sonages no less distinguished than Moses, Joshua,
Solomon, and Esdras. It contained alJ the secrets
of alchymy and of many other sciences, and was the
most valuable book that had ever existed in this
world. The Doctor was himself no mean adept,
and Nicholas profited greatly by his discourse, as in
the garb of poor pilgrims they wended their way
to Paris, convinced of their power to tum every
old shovel in that capital into pure gold. But, un-
fortunately, when they reached Orleans, the Doctor
was taken dangerously ill. Nicholas watched by
his bedside, and acted the double part of a phy-
sician and nurse to him ; but he died after a few
days, lamenting with his last breath.that be had not.
Jived long enough to see the precious volume. ~i..
cbolas rendered the last honours to his body ; and
{ 1\
46 THE ALCHYMfSTS.
with a sorrowful heart, and not one sous in his
pocket, proceeded home to his wife PetroneJla.
He immediately recommenced the study of his pic-
tures; but for two whole years he was as far from
understanding them as ever. At last, in the third
year, a glimmer of light stole over his understand-
ing. He recalled some expression of his friend, the
Doctor, which had hitherto escaped his memory,
and he found that all his previous experiments had
been conducted on a wrong basis. He recom-
menced them now with renewed energy, and at the
end of the year had the satisfaction to see all his
toils rewarded. On the 18th January 1382, says
Lenglet, he made a projection on mercury, and
had some very excellent silver. On the 25th April
following, he converted a large quantity of mercury
into gold, and the great secret was his.
Nicholas was now about eighty years of age, and
still a hale and stout old man. His friends say that,
by the simultaneous discovery of the elixir of life, he
found means to keep death at a distance for another
quarter of a century; and that he died in 1415, at
the age of 116. In this interval be had made im-
mense quantities of gold, though to all outward ap-
pearance he was as poor as a mouse. At an early
period of his changed fortune, he had, like a worthy
man, taken counsel with his old wife PetroneJla,
as to the best use he could make of his wealth.
Petronella replied, that as unfortunately they had
no children, the best thing he could do, was to
THE ALCHYMISTS. 47
build hospitals and endow churches. Nicholas
thought so too, especially when he began to find
that his elixir could not keep ofF death, and that
the grim foe was making Tapid advances upon
him. He richly endowed the church of St. Jacques
de la Boucherie, near the Rue de Marivaux, where
he had all his life resided, besides seven others in
different parts of the kingdom., He also endowed
fourteen hospitals, and built three chapels.
The fame of his great wealth and his munificent
benefactions soon spread over all the country, and
he was visited, among others, by the celebrated
Doctors of that day, Jean Gerson, Jean de Courte-
cuisse, and Pierre d'Ailli. They found him in his
humble apartment, meanly clad, and eating por-
ridge out of an earthen vessel; and with regard to
his secret, as impenetrable as all his predecessors
in alchymy. His fame reached the ears of the
King, Charles VI, who sent M. de Cramoisi, the
Master of Requests, to find out whether Nicholas
had indeed discovered the philosopher's stone. But
M. de Cramoisi took nothing by his visit ; all his
attempts to sound the alchymist were unavailing,
and be returned to his royal master no wiser than
he came. It was in this year, 14141, that he lost
his faithful Petronella. He did not long survive
her; but died in the following year, and was buried
with great pomp by the grateful priests of St.
Jacques de Ia Boucherie.
The great wealth of Nicholas Flame) ts un-
,.
48 THE ALCHYMJSTS.
doubted, as the recordB of several churches and
hospitals in France can testify. That he practised
alchymy is equally certain, as be left behind several
works upon the subject.
Those who knew him well, and who were incre-
dulous about the philosopher's stone, give a very
satisfactory solution of the secret of his wealth.
They say that he was always a miser and a usurer;
that his journey to Spain was undertaken with very
different motives from those pretended by the al-
chymists ; that, in fact, he went to collect debts due
*' from Jews in that country to their brethren in
Paris, and that he charged a commission of fully
cent. per cent. in consideration of the difficulty of
collecting and the dangers of the road ; that when
he possessed thousands, be lived upon almost
nothing; and was the general money-lender, at
enormous profits, of a11 the dissipated young men
at the French court.
Among the works written by Nicholas Flame} on
the subject of alcbymy, is u The Philosophic Sum-·
mary," a poem, reprinted in 1735, as an appendix
to the third volume of the " Roman de Ia Rose." He
also wrote three treatises upon natural philosophy,
and an alchymic allegory, entitled u Le Desir de-
sire." Specimens of his writing, and a fac-simile
of the drawings in his book of Abraham, may be
seen in Salmon's n Bibliotheque des Philosophes
Chimiques." The writer of the article, "Flamel,"
in the u Biographie Universelle," says that, for a
THE ALCRYMISTS. 49
hundred years after the death of Flamel, many of
the adepts believed that be was still aliv~, and that
be would live for upwards of six hundred years.
The house he formerly occupied, at the corner
of the Rue de Marivaux, has been often taken
by credulous speculators, and ransacked from top
to bottom, in the hgpes that gold might be found.
A report was current in Paris, not long previous to
the year 1816, that some lodgers had found in
the cellars several jars filled with a dark-coloured
ponderous matter. Upon the strength of the ru-
mour, a believer in all the wondrous tales told
of Nicholas Flamel bought the house, and nearly
pulled it to pieces in ransacking the walls and
wainscotting for hidden gold. He got nothing for
his pains, however, and had a heavy bill to pay
to restore his dilapidations.
GEORGE RJPLEY.
Whil~ alchymy was thus cultivated on the con-
tinent of Europe, it was not neglected in the
isles of Britain. Since the time of Roger Bacon,
it had fascinated the imagination of many ardent
men in England. In the year 1404, an act of
parliament was passed, declaring the making of
gold and silver to be felony. Great alarm was felt
at that time lest any alchymist should succeed in
his projects, and perhaps bring ruin upon the state,
by furnishing boundless wealth to some designing
VOL. III. E
1\
TilE ALCHYMfSTS.
tyrant, who would make use of it to enslave his
country. This alarm appears to have soon sub-
sided·; for, in the year 14155, King Henry VI, by
advice of his council and parliament, granted £our
successive patents and commissions to several
knights, citizens of London, chemists, monks,
mass-priests.. and others, to find out the philo-
aopher's stone and elixir, u to the great benefit,"
taid the patent, " of the realm.. and the enabling
of the King to pay all the debts of the Crown in
real gold and silver!' Prinn, in his " Aurum
Reginm," observes, as a note to this passage, that
the King's reason for granting this patent to eccle-
siastics was, that they were sueh good artists in
transubstantiating bread and wine in the Eucharist,
~nd therefore the more lii:ely to be able to effect
the transmutation of baser metals into better. No
gold, of course.. was ever made; and.. next year,
the King, doubting very much of the practicability
of the thing, took further advice.. and appointed
a commission of ten learned men, and persons of
eminence, to judge and certify to him whether the
transmutation of metals were a thing practicable
or no. It does not appear whether the commission
ever made any report upon the subject.
In the succeeding reign, an alchymist appeared
who pretended to have discovered the secret. This
was ·George Ripley, the canon of Bridlington.. in
Yorksbire. He studied for twenty years in the uni-
versities of Italy, and was a great favourite with
1\
THE .ALCHYMISTS. .51
Pope Innocent VIII, who made him one of his do-
mestic chaplains, and master of the ceremonies· ill
his household. Returning to England in 1477, he
d~dicated to King Edward IV. his famous work,
rt The Compound of Alchymy; ar, the Twelve
Gates leading to the Discovery of the Philosopher's;
Stone.'' These gates he described to be calcina-
tion, solution, separation, conjunction, putrefaction, ·~
congelation, cibation, sublimation, fermentation,. .· ,, r W ·
:. . '~
exaltation, multiplication, and projection ! to which
be might have added botheration, the most import.
ant process of all. He was very rich1 and' allowed
it to be believed that he could make gold out of
iron. Fuller, in his u Worthies of England," says
that an English gentleman of good credit reported
that, in his travels kbroad, be saw a record in
the island of Malta, which declared that Ripley
gave yearly to the knights of that island, and of
&bodes, the enormous sum of one hundred thou-
sand pounds sterling, to enable them to carry on
the war against the Turks. In his old age, he
b~came an anchorite near Boston, and wrote
twenty-five volumes upon the subject of alchymy,
the most important of which is the " Duodecim
Portarum," already mentioned. Before he died,.
he seems to have acknowledged that he had mis-
spent his life in this vain study, and requested that
all men, when they met with any of his books,
would burn them, or afford them no credit, as they
had been written merely from liis opinion, and not
E~
52 THE ALCHYMISTS.
from proof; and that subsequent trial had made
manifest to him that they were false and vain.•
BAsiL V.!LENTINE.
Germany also produced many famous alchymists
in the fifteenth century, the chief of whom are Basil
Valentine, Bernard of Treves, and the Abbot Tri-
themius. Basil Valentine was born at Mayence,
and was made pf!or of St. Peter's, at Erfurt, about
the year 1414. It was known., during his life, that
he diligently sought the philosopher's stone, and
that he had written some works upon the process
of transmutation. They were thought, for many
years, to be lost; but were, after his death., dis-
covered enclosed in the stone work of one of the
pillars in the Abbey. They were twenty-one in
number, and are fully set forth in the third volume.
of Lenglet's u History of the Hermetic Philoso-
phy." The alchymists asserted, that Heaven itself
conspired to bring to light these extraordinary
works ; and that the pillar in which they were en-
closed was miraculously shattered by a thunder-
bolt; and that, as soon ·as the manuscripts were
liberated, the pillar closed up again of its own
accord J
BERNARD OF Td~VES.
The life of this philosopher is a remarkable in-
stance of talent and perseverance misapplied. In
* Fuller's 11
Worthies ofEngland."
THE ALCHYMISTS. 58
the search of his chimera nothing could daunt
him. Repeated disappointment never diminished
his hopes; and, from the age of fourteen to that of
eighty-five, he was incessantly employed among the
drugs and furnaces of his laboratory, wasting his
life with the view of prolonging it, and reducing
himself to beggary in the hopes of growing rich.
He was born at either Treves or Padua, in the
year 1'06. His father is said by some to have been
a physician in the latter city ; and by others, to
have been Count ofthe Marches ofTreves, and one
of the most wealthy nobles of his country. At all
events, whether noble or physician, be was a rich
man, and left his son a magnificent estate. At the
age of fourteen he first became enamoured of the
science of alchymy, and read the Arabian authors
in their own language. He himself has left a most
interesting record of his labours and wanderings,
from which the following particulars are chiefly ex-
tracted:-The first book which fell into his hands,
was that of the Arabian philosopher, Rhazes, from
t1ie reading of which ~e imagined that he had dis-
covered the means of augmenting gold a hundred
fold. For four years he worked in his laboratory,
with the book of Rhazes continually before him.
At the end of that time, he found that he had spent
no less than eight hundred crowns upon his experi-
ment, and bad got nothing but fire and smoke for
his pains. He now began to lose confidence in
Rhazes, and turned to the works of Geber. He
1\
--"'
T.HE ALCHYMISTS,
studied him assiduously for tw.o years; and, being
young, rich, and credulous, was beset by all the al-
chymists of the town, who ~dly .assisted him in
spending his money. He did not lose his faith in
Geber, or patience with his hungry assistants, until
he had lost two thousand crowns - a very con.
siderable sum in those days.
Among all the crowd of pretended men of6cience
who surrounded him, there was but one as enthusi-
astic and as disinterested as himself. With thi1
man, who was a monk of the order of St. Francis,
he contracted an intimate friendship, and spent
nearly all his time. Some obscure treatises of Ru..
peciss& and Sacrobosco having fallen into their
bands, they were persuaded, from reading them,
that highly rectified spirits of wine was the uni-
..-ersal alkahest, or dissolvent, which would aid them
greatly in the process of transmutation. They
rectified the alcohol thirty times, till they made it
ao strong as to burst the vessels which conta.ined it.
After they had worked three .years, and spent three
hundred crowns in the liquor, they discovered that
they were on the WTong track. They next tried
alum and copperas ; but the gre.at secret still es-
caped them. They afterwards imagined that there
was" marvellous virtue in .all excrement, especially
the hnman, and actually employed more than two
years in experimentali.zing upon it, with mercury,
salt, and molten lead! Again the adepts flocked
around him from far and near1 to aid him with their
THE ALCHYMIST.5. 5S
counsels. He ·received them all hospitably, and di·
vided his wealth among them so generously and un.
hesitatingly, that they gave him the name of the
u good Trevisan;• by which he is still often men-
tioned in works that treat on alchymy. For twelve
years he led this life, making experiments every
day upon some new substance, and praying to God
night and morning that he might discover the
secret of transmutation.
In this interval he lost his friend the monk, and
was joined by a magistrate of the city of Treves, as
ardent as himself in the search. His new acquaint-
ance imagined that the ocean was the mother of
gold, and that sea-salt would change lead or iron
into the precious metals. Bernard resolved to try;
and, transporting his laboratory to a house on the
coast of the Baltic, he worked upon salt for mol'e
than a year, melting it, sublimating it, crystal-
izing it, and occasionally drinking it, for the sak~
of other experiments. Still the strange enthusiast
was not wholly discouraged, and his failure in one
trial only made him the more anxious to attempt
another.
He was now approaching the age of fifty, and
had as yet seen nothing of the world. He,.there.
fore, determined to travel through Germany, Italy,
France, and Spain. Wherever he stopped he made
inquiries whether there were any alcbym.ists in the.
neighbourhood. He invariably Sought tb~m out;
and, if they were poor, relieved, and, if afRuent,
1\
56 THE ALCllYMISTS.
encouraged them. At Citeaux he became acquaint-
ed with one Geoffrey Leuvier, a monk ofthat place,
who persuaded him that the easence of egg-shells
was a valuable ingredient. He tried, therefore~
what could be done ; and was only prevented from
wasting a year or two on the experiment by the
opinions of an attorney, at Berghem, in Flanders,
who said that the great secret resided in vinegar
and copperas. He was not convinced of the ab-
surdity of this idea until be had nearly poisoned
himself. He resided in France for about five years,
when, hearing accidentally that one Master Henry,
confessor to the Empero1· Frederic III, had dis-
covered the philosopher's stone, he set out for Ger-
many to pay him a visit. He had, as usual, sur-
rounded himself with a set of hungry dependants,
several of whom determined to accompany him.
He had not heart to refuse them, and he arrived
at Vienna with five of them. Bernard sent a po-
lite invitation to the confessor, and gave him a
sumptuous entertainment, at which were present
nearly all the alcbymists ofVienna. Master Henry
frankly confessed that he had not discovered the
philosopher's stone, but that he bad all his life been
employed in searching for it, and would so continue,
till he found it ;-or died. This was a man after
Bernard's own heart, and they vowed with each
other an eternal friendship. It was resolved, at
supper, that each alchymist present should con-
tribute a certain sum towards raising forty-two
/
THE ALCHYMJSTS. 57
marks of gold, which, in five days, it was confi.
dently asserted by Master Henry, would increase,
in his furnace, five fold. Bernard, being the richest
man, contributed the lion's share, ten marks ofgold,
Master Henry five, and the others one or two
a piece, except the dependants of Bernard, who
were obliged to borrow their quota from their
patron. The grand experiment was duly made ;
the golden marks were put into a crucible, with a
quantity of salt, copperas, aquafortis, egg-shells,
mercury, lead, and dung. The alchymists watched
this precious mess with intense interest, expecting
that it would agglomerate into one lump of pure
gold. At the end of three weeks they gave up the
trial, upon some excuse that the crucible was not
strong enough, or that some necessary ingredient
was wanting. Whether any thief had put his hands
into the crucible is not known, but it ~s certain that
the gold found therein at the close of the expe-
riment was worth only sixteen marks, instead of the
forty-two, which were put there at the beginning.
Bernard, though he made no gold at Vienna,
made away with a very considerable quantity.
He felt the loss so acutely, that he vowed to
think no more of the philosopher's stc;me. This
wise resolution he kept for two months; but he
was miserable. He was in the condition of the
gambler, who cannot resist the fascination of the
game while he has a coin remaining, but plays
on with the hope of retrieving former losses, till
{ I
68 THE ALCHYMISTS.
hope forsakes him, and he can live no longer.
He returned once more to his beloved crucibles,
and.resolved to prosecute his journey in search of
a philosopher who had discovered the secret, and
would communicate it to 80 .zealous and perse-
vering an adept as himself. From Vienna he tra-
velled to Rome, and from Rome to Madrid. Talting
ship at Gibraltar, he proceeded to Messina ; from
Messina to Cyprus ; from Cyprus to Greece ; from
Greece to Constantinople ; and thence into Egypt,
Palestine, and Persia. These wanderings occupied
him about eight years. From Persia he made his
way back to Messina, and from thence into France.
He afterwards passed over into England, still in
search of his great chimera ; and this occupied four
years more of his life. He was now growing both
old and poor; for he wu sixty-two yeara of age,
and had been obliged to sell a great portion of his
patrimony to provide for his expenses. His journey
to Persia had cost upwards of thirteen thousand
crowns, about one-half of which had been £airly
melted in his all-devouring furnaces : the other half
was lavished upon the sycophants that he made it
his business to search o.ut in every town h.e stop-
ped at.
On his return to Treves he found, to his sorrow,
that, if not an actual beggar, he was not much bet-
ter. His relatives looked upon him as a madman,
and refused even to see him. Too proud to ask for
favours from any one, and still confident that, some
1\
mE ALCBY.MISTS.. 59
day or other, be would be the possessor of unbound-
ed wealth, he made up his mind to retire to the
island of Rhodes, where he might, in the mean
time, hide his poverty from the eyes of all the
world. Here he might have lived unknown and
happy; but, as ill luck would have it, he fell in
with a monk as mad as himself upon the subject of
transmutation. They were, however, both so poor
that they could not afford to buy the proper mate-
rials to work with. They kept up each other's
spirits by learned discourses on the Hermetic Phi-
losophy, and in the reading of all the great authors
who had written upon the subject. Thus did they
nurse their folly, as the good wife of Tam O'Shan-
ter did her wrath, 11
to keep it warm." After Ber-
Jlard bad resided :about a year in Rhodes, a mer-
chant, who knew his family, advanced him the sum
of eight tboasand florins, upon the security of the
last-remaining acres of his formerly large estate.
Once more provided with funds, he recommenced
his labours with all the zeal and enthusiasm·of a
young man. For three years he har.dly stepped
out of his laboratory: he ate there, and slept there,
and did not even give himself time to waah his
hanas and clean his beard, so intense was.his .appli-
cation. It is melancholy to think that such won-
derful perseverance should have been wasted in so
Tain a pursuit, and that energies so unconquerable
should have had no worthier field to strive ·in.
Even when he had fumed away his last coin, and
{ '
60 THE ALCHYAUsrs.
had nothing left in prospective to keep his old age
from starvation, hope never forsook him. He still
dreamed of ultimate success, and sat down a grey-
headed man of eighty, to read over all the authors
on the hermetic mysteries, from Geber to his own
day, lest he should have misundetstood some pro-
cess, which it was not yet too late to recommence.
The alchymists say, that he succeeded at last, and
discovered the secret of transmutation in his eighty-
second year. They add, that he lived three years
afterwards to enjoy his wealth. He lived, it is
true, to this great age, and made a valuable dis-
covery-more valuable than gold or gems. He
learned, as he himself informs us, just before he
had attained his eighty-third year, that the great
secret of philosophy was contentment with our lot.
Happy would it have been for him if be had dis-
covered it sooner, and before he became .decrepit, a
beggar, and an exile !
He died at Rhodes, in the year 1490, and all the
alchymists of Europe sang elegies over him, and
sounded his praise as the " good Trevisan." He
wrote several treatises upon his chimera, the chief
of which are, the "Book of Chemistry," the "Ver-
bum dimissum," and an essay" De Natura Ovi."
TRITHEMIUS,
The name of this eminent man has become
famous in the annals of alchymy, although he did
but little to gain so questionable an honour. He was
1\
THE ALCHYMJSTS. 61
born in the year 1462, at the village of Trittheim,
in the electorate of Treves. His father was Jobn
Heidenberg, a vine-grower, in easy circumstances,
who, dying when his son was but seven years old,
left him to the care of his mother. The latter
married again very shortly afterwards, and neg-
lected the poor boy, the offspring of her first mar-
riage. At the age of fifteen he did not even know
his lette~s, and was, besides, half starved, and other-
wise ill-treated by .his step-father.; but the love of
knowledge germinated in the breast of the unfortu-
nat.e youth, and he learned to read at the house of
a neighbour. His father-in-law set him to work in
the vineyards, and thus occupied all his days ; but
the nights were his own. He often stole out un-
heeded, when all the household were fast asleep,
poring over his studies in the fields, by the light of
the moon; and thus taught himself Latin and the
rudiments of Greek. He was subjected to so much
ill-usage at home, in consequence of this loYe of
study, that he determined to leave it. Demanding
the patrimony which his father bad ]eft him, he
proceeded to Treves ; and, assuming the name of
Tritbemius, from that ofhis native village of Tritt-
heim, lived there for some months, under the tuition
of eminent masters, by whom be was prepared for
the university. At the age of twenty, he took it
into his head that he should like to see his mother
once more; and he set out on foot from the distant
university for that purpose. On his arrival near
,
\ 1\
6i THE ALCRYMIS'I'S.
Spannbeim, late in the evening 9f a gloomy winter's
day, it came on to snow so thickly, that be could
not proceed onwards to the town. He, therefore,
took refuge for the night in a neighbouring monas-
tery; but the storm continued several days, the
roads became impassable, and the hospitable monks
would not hear of his departure. He was so pleased
with them and their manner of life, that be sud-
denly resolved to fix his abode among them, andre-
nounce the world. They were no less pleased with
him, and gladly received him as a brother. In the
course of two years, although still so young, be was
unanimously elected their Abbot. The.financial af-
fairs of t~e esta·blishment bad been greatly neg-
lected, the walls of the building were falling into
ruin, and everything was in disorder. Trithemius,
by his good management and regularity, introduced
a ·reform in every branch of expenditure. The
monastery was repaired, and a yearly surplus, in-
stead of a deficiency, rewarded him for his pains.
He did not like to see the monks idle, or occupied
solely between prayers for their business, and chess
for their relaxation. He, therefore, set them to
work to copy the writings of eminent authors.
They laboured so assiduously, that, in the course of
a few years, their library, which had contained only
about forty volumes, was enriched with several hun-
dred valuable manuscripts, comprising many of the
classical Latin authors, besides the works of the
early fathers, and the principal historians and phi-
1\ I
THE ALCHYMJSTS.
loaophers of more modern date. He retained the
dignity of Abbot ofSpannheim for twenty-one years,
when the monks, tired of the severe discipline he
maintained, revolted against him, and chose another:
abbot in his place. He was afterwards made Ab-
bot of St. James, in Wurtzburg, where he died in
1516.
Duringhis learned leisure at Spannheim,be wrote
several works upon the occult sciences, the chief
of which are an essay on geomancy, or divination
by means of lines and circles on the ground ; an-
other upon sorcery; a third upon alchymy; and a
fourth upon the government of the world by its ·
presiding angels, which was translated into Eng-
lish, and published by.the famous William Lilly in
1647• .
It has bee» alleged by the believers in the pos--
sibility of transmutation, that the prosperity of the
abbey of Spannheim, while under his superintend-
ence, was owing more to the philosopher's stone
than to wise economy. Trithemius, in common
with many other learned men, has been accused
of magic ; and _
a marvellous story is told of his
having raised from the grave the form of Mary
of Burgundy, at the intercession of her widowed
husband, the Emperor Maximilian. His work on
ateganograpbia, or cabalistic writing, was de-
nounced to the Count Palatine, Frederic II, as
magical and devili-
sh ; and it was by him taken
from the shelves of his library and thrown into the
1\
THE ALCH~ISTS.
fire. Tritbemius is said to be the first writer who
makes mention of the wonderful story of the devil
and Dr. Faustus, the truth of which he firmly be-
lieved. He also recounts the _
freaks of a spirit~
named Hudekin, by whom be was at times tor-
mented.•
THE MARECHAL DE RAYS.
One of the greatest encouragers of alchymy in
the fifteenth century was Gilles de Laval, Lord of
Rays and a Marshal of France. His name and
deeds are little known ; but in the annals of crime
and folly, they might claim the highest and worst
pre-eminence. Fiction has never invented any-
thing wilder or more horrible than his career ;
and were not the details but too well authenticated
by legal and other documents which admit no
doubt, the lover of romance might easi1y imagine
they were drawn to please him from the stores
of the prolific brain, and not from the page of
history.
He was born about the year 1420, of one of
the noblest families of Brittany. His father dying
when Gilles had attained his twentieth year, be
came into uncontrolled possession, at that early age,
of a fortune which the monarchs of France might
have envied him. He was a near kinsman of the
Montmorencys, the Roncys, and the Craons; pos-
sessed fifteen princely domains, and had an annual
revenue of about three hundred thousand livres.
• Biogmphie Universelle.
1\
THE ALCHYMISTS. 65
Besides this, he was handsome, learned, and brave.
He distinguished himself greatly in the .wars of
Charles VII, and was rewarded by that monarch
with the dignity of a marshal of France. But he
was extravagant and magnificent in his style of
living, and accustomed from his earliest years to
the gratification · of every wish and passion ; and
this, at last, led him from vice to vice, and from
crime to crime, till a blacker name than his is
not to be found in any record of human iniquity.
In his castle of Champtoc~. he lived with all the
splendour of an Eastern Caliph. He kept up a
troop of two hundred horsemen to accompany him
wherever he went; and his excursions for the pur-
poses of hawking and hunting were the wonder of
all the country around, so magnificent were the
caparisons of his steeds and the dresses of hill
retainers. Day and night, his castle was open.all
the year round to comers of every degl·ee. He
made it a rule to regale even the poorest beggar
with wine and hippocrass. Every day an ox was
roasted whole in his spacious kitchens, besides
sheep, pigs, and poultry sufficient to feed five
hundred persons. He was equally magnificent in
his devotiot:ts. His private chapel at Champtoce
was the most beautiful in France, and far surpassed
any of those in the richly-endowed cathedrals of
Notre Dame in Paris, of Amiens, of Beauvais, or
of Rouen. It was hung with cloth of gold and
rich velvet. All the chandeliers were of pure gold,
VOL. Ill. F
...
66 THE ALCHYMISTS.
curiously inlaid with silver. The great crucifix
over the altar was of solid silver, and the chalices
and incense-burners were of pure gold. He had,
besides, a fine organ, which he caused to be carried
from one castle to another, on the shoulders of
six men, whenever be changed his residence. He
kept up a choir of twenty-five young cbildren of
both sexes, who were instructed in singing by tbe
first musicians of the day. The master 'Of his cha-
pel he called a bishop, who had under him hia
deans, archdeacons, and vicars, each receiving gteat
salaries ; the bishop four hundred crowns a year,
and the rest in proportion.
He a]so maintained a whole troop . of players,
including ten dancing-girls and as many ballad-
singers, besides morris-dancers, jugglers, and moun-
tebanks of every description. The theatre on which
they performed was fitted up without any regard
to e~pense; and they played mysteries, or danced
the morris-dance, every evening, for the amusement
of himself and household, and such strangers as
were sharing his prodigal hospitality.
At the age of twenty-three, be married Cathe-
rine, the wealthy heiress of the house of Tounrs,
for whom he refurnished his castle at an ex.
pense of a hundred thousand crowns. His mar.
riage was the signal for new extravagance, and
he launched out mare madly than ever he had
done before ; sending for fine singers or celebrated
dancers from foreign countries to amuse him and
THE ALCHYMISTS. 61
his spouse, and instituting tilts and tournaments in
his great court-yard almost every week for all the
knights and nobles of the province of Brittany.
The Duke of Brittany's court was not half so aplen-
did as that of the Marechal de Rays. His utter
disr.egard of wealth was so well known that he was
made to pay three times its valu.
e for everything he
purchased. His castle waa filled with needy para-
sites and panderers to his pleasures, among$t whom
be lavished rewards with an unsparing hand. But
the ordinary roup.d of sensual gratification ceased at
last to afford him delight : he was observed to be
more·abstemious in the pl~asures of the table, and
to neglect the beauteous dancing-girls who used
formerly to occupy so much of his attention. He
was sometimes gloomy and reserved ; and there
was an unnatural wildness in his eye which gave
indications of incipient madness. Still, his dis.
course was as reasonable as ever ; his urbanity to
the guests that flocked from far and near to Champ-
toea sadfered no diminution ; and learned priests,
when they conversed with him, thought to them-
selves that few of the nobles of France were so
well-informed as Gilles de Laval, But dark ru-
mours spread gradually over' the country; murder,
and, if possible, still more atrocious deeds were
hinted at; and it was remarked that many young
ehildren, of both sexes, suddenly disappeared, and
were never afterwards heard of. One or two had
been traced to the castle of .
Champtoce, and bad.
F 2
1\
68 THE ALCHYMISTS.
never been seen to leave it; but no one dared to
accuse openly so po\rerful a man as the Marechal
de Rays. Whenever the subject of the lost chil-
dren was mentioned in his presence, he manifested
the greatest astonishment at the mystery .which
involved their fate, and indignation against those
who might be guilty of kidnapping them. Still the
world was not wholly deceived ; his name became
as formidable to young children as that of tbe de-
vouring ogre in fairy tales ; and they were taught
to go miles round, rather than pass under .the
turrets of Champtoce.
In the course of a very few years, the reckless
extravagance of the Marshal drained him of all his
funds, and he was obliged to put up some of his
estates for sale. The Duke of Brittany entered
into a treaty with him for the valuable seignory of
Ingrande ; but the heirs of Gilles implored the in-
terference ofCharles VII. to stay the sale. Charles
immediately issued .an edict, which was confirmed
l?y the Provincial Parliament ofBrittany, forbidding
him to alienate his paternal estates. Gilles had no
alternative but to submit. He bad nothing to sup-
port his extravagance but his allowance as a Mar-
shal of France, which did not cover the one-tenth of
his expenses. A man of his habits and character
could not retrench his wasteful expenditure anil
live reasonably; he could not dismiss without a pang
his horsemen, his jesters, his morris-dancers, his
choristers, and his parasites, or.confiue his hospi-
THE ALCHYMIST$ 69
tality to those who really needed it. Notwith-
standing his diminished resources, he resolved to
live as he had lived before, and turn alchymist, that
be might make gold out of iron, and be still the
wealthiest and most magnificent among the nobles
of Brittany.
In pursuance of this determination he sent to
Paris, Italy, Germany, and Spain, inviting all tlie
adepts in the science to visit him at Champtoce.
The messengers be ·despatched on this mission were
two of his most needy and unprincipled dependants,
Gilles de Sille and Roger de BricqueviJle. The
latter, the obsequious panderer to his most secret
.and abominable pleasures, he bad intrusted with
the education of his motherless daughter, a child
but five years of age, with permission, that he might
marry her at the proper time to any person he
chose, or to himself if he liked it better. This man
entered into the new plans of his master with great
zeal, and ·introduced to him one Prelati, an alchy-
mist of Padua, and a physician of Poitou, who was
addicted to the same pursuits.
The Marshal caused a splendid laboratory to be
fitted up for them, and the three commenced the
search for the philosopher's stone. They were soon
afterwards joined by another pretended philosopher,
named Anthony of Palermo, who aided in their
operations for upwards of a year. They all fared
sumptuously at the Marshal's expense.. draining him
of the ready money be possessed, and leading him
'TO ~HE .ALCHYMISTS.
on ·from day to 'day with the hope that·they wtiil14
succeed in the object of their search. From time
to time new aspirants from the remotest parts of
·Europe ·arrived at his eastle, and for months
he had upwards of twenty alchymists at work-
trying to transmute copper into gold, and wasting
the ' gold, which was still his own, in drugs and
elixirs.
But th~ Lord of Rays was 1_10t a m~n to -abide
patiently their ·lingering processes. Pleased with
their comfortable quarters, they jogged on from day
to day,.and would have done so for years, had they
beenpermitted. Buthe suddenlydismissed them all)
with the exception of the Italian Prelati, and the
l>hysician of P.oitou. Theae he ·retained to aid him
to discover the secret of the philosopher's stone by a
bolder method. The Poitousan had persuaded him
that the devil was the great depositary of that and
all other secrets, and that he would raise him before
Gillea, who tnigbt enter into any contmct .he pleased
with him. Gilles expressed his readiness, and.pro-
mised to give the devil anything but his eoul) or do
any deed that the areh-enemy might impose upon
him. Attended solely by the physician, ·he pro.
ceeded at midhight to a wild-looki~g place in a
neighbouring forest ; the physician drew a magic
circle around them on the 'SWard_, and muttered for
blf an hour an invocation to the Evil Spirit te
arise at his bidding, and disclose the secrets of
alchymy. Gilles looked on with intense interest,
THE ALCHYMIS'l'S.
and expected every mpment to see the·earth open,
and deliver to his gazethe great enemy of ~~nkiod.
At last the eyes of the physician became fixed, his
hair stood ~n end, and he spok~ as if addressing
the fiend. But Gilles saw notbing.except 1'\is com-
panion. At last the physician fell down on the
.sward as if insensible. Gilles looked calmly 9.n to
see the end~ After a few minutes the physici~n
arose, and asked him if he had not seen how
~gry the devil looked 1 Gilles replied, that he
.had seen nothing ; upon which. his comp,
aoion
informed him that Beelzebub bad appeared in ·
the form of a wild leopard, growled at him
savagely, and said nothing; and .that the reasop
why the Marshal had neither seen·nor heard l>.hn,
was tl)at he hesitated in his own miqd as to
devoting himself entirely to the s,ervic~. De Rays
owned that he had indeed misgivings, and inquired
what was to be done to make the devil speak out,
and unfold his secret 1' The physician replied, that
some person must go to Spain and Africa to coUect
certain herbs which only grew in those countries,
and oft'ered to go himself, ifDe Rays w.o.uld provide
the necessary funds. De Rays at once consented ;
and the physician set out on the following day wi.tb
all the gold that his dupe could spar.e him. The
Marshal never saw his face again.
But the eager Lord of Champtoce could not
rest. Gold was necessary for his pleasures ; and
unless, by supernatural aid, he had no meal)s of
{ 1\ I
72 THE ALCHYMISTS;
procuring many further supplies. The physician
was hardly twenty leagues on his journey, before
Gilles resolved to make another effort to force the
devil to divulge the art of gold making. He went
out alone for that purpose, but all his conjurations
were of no effect. Beelzebub was obstinate, and
would not appear. Determined to conquer him if
he could, he unbosomed himself to the Italian al- a
chymist, Prelati. The latter offered to. undertake
the business, up~n condition that De Rays did not
interfere in the conjurations, and consented besides
to furnish him with all the charms and talismans
that might be required. He was further to open a
vein in his atm, and sign with his blood a contract
that he would work the devil's will in all things,
and offer up to him a sacrifice of the heart, lungs-,
hands, eyes, and blood of a young child. The
grasping monomaniac made no hesitation ; but
agreed at once to the disgusting terms proposed to
him. On the following .night, Prelati went out
alone ; and after having been absent for three or
four hours, returned to Gilles, who sat anxiously
awaiting him. Prelati then informed him that he
had seen the de.vil in the shape of a handsome
youth of twenty. He further said, that the devil
desired to be called Barron in all future invo-
cations ; and bad shown him a great number of
ingots of pure gold, buried under a large oak in
the neighbouring fore.st, all of which, and as many
more as he desired, should become the property of
THE ALCHYMISTS. 78
the Marechal de Rays if he remained fum, and
broke no condition elf the contract. Prelati further·
showed him a small casket of black dust, which
would tum iron into gold; but as the process was
very troublesome, he advised that they should be
contented with the ingots they found under the
oak tree, and which would more than supply all
the wants that the most extravagant imagination
could desire. They were· not, however, to attempt
to lopk for the gold till a period of seven times
seven weeks, or they would find nothing but slates
and stones for their pains. Gilles expressed the
utmost chagrin and disappointment, and at once
said that be could not wait for so long a period;
if the devil were not more prompt, Prelati might
tell him, that the Marechal de Rays was not to be
trifled with, and would decline all further communi-
cation with him. Prelati at last persuaded him to
wait seven times seven days. They then went at
midnight with picks and shovels to dig up the
ground under the oak, where they found nothing to
reward them but a great quantity of slates, marked
with hieroglyphics. It was now Prelati's turn to be
angry; and he loudly swore that the devil was
nothing but a liar and a cheat. The Marshal
joined cordially in the opinion, but was easily per-
suaded by the cunning Italian to make one more
trial. He promised at the same time that he would
endeavour, on the following night, to discover the
reason why the devil had broken his word. - He
THE ALCHYMII'm.
went ·out alene aeoordingly, and on his .return in·
formed his .patron that he had Jeen Barron, who
was exceedingly angry that the.y had not waited
the ptoper time ere they looked for the ingots.
Barron had also said, that the Marechal de !lays
could hardly expect ·any favours from him, at a
time when he must know that he had been medi-
.tatiog .a pilgrimage to the Holy Land, to make
atonement for his sina. The I~alian had doubtless
surmised this, from some incautious expres&ion of
his patron, for De Rays frankly confessed that ther~
were times when, sick of the world and all its
pomps and vanities, he thought of devoting himself
to the service of God.
In this manner the Italian lured on from month
to month his credulous and guilty patron, extract-
ing from him all the valuables he possessed, and
only waiting a favourable opportunity tO decamp
with his plunder. But the day of retribution was
at hand for both. Ypung girls and boys continued
to disappear in the most mysterious manner ; and
the ruiDDurs against the owner of Champtoce grew
80 loud and distinct, that the Church w~s compelled
to interfere. Representations were rnade by the
Biahop of Nantes to the Duke of Brittany, that it
·would be a public scandal if the accusations against
the Marechal de Rays were not inquired into. He
was arrested accordingly in his own castle, along
with his accomplice Prelati, and thrown into a dun-
geon at Nantes to await his trial.
t \h I I
I
'J'H:E ALCHYMISTS.
The.judgent.ppointed to try him.were the Bishop
of Nantes Chancellor ·Of Brittany, the Vicar of the
Jnquiaition in ·France, and the· celebrated Pierre
l'H6pital, the President of the Pwvincial Parlia-
ment. The oft'ences .Jaid to his charge were sor-
cery, sodomy, and murder. Gilles, on the first day
of his trial, conducted himself with the utmost inso-
lence. He braved the judges on the judgment seat,
calling them simoniacs and persons of impure life,
and said he would rather be hanged by the neck
like a dog without trial, . than plead either guilty
or not guilty to such contemptible miscreants.
But his confidence forsook him as the trial pro-
ceeded, and he was found guilty on the clearest
evidence of all the crimes laid to his charge. It was
proved that he took insane pleasure in stabbing the
·victims of his lust, and in observing the quivering
of their flesh, and the fading lustre of their eyes
a.
s they expired. The confession of Prelati first
made the judges acquainted with this horrid
madness, .and Gilles hlmsetf confirmed it before his
death. Nearly a hundred children of the villagers
around his two castles of Champtoce and Mache-
coue, had been missed within three years, the
greater part, if not all, of whom were immolated
to tbe lust or the cupidity of this monster. He
imagined that he thus made the devil his friend,
and that his recompence would be the secret of the
philosopher's stone.
Gilles and Prelati were both condemned to be
76 THE ALCHYMISTS.
burned alive. At the place of execution they'as-
sumed the air of penitence and religion. Gilles
tenderly embraced Pre)ati, saying, " Farewell,
friend Francu! In thi1 world we &hall never meet
again ; but let us place our hope~ in God; we &hall
&ee each other in Paradise." Out of consideration
for his high rank and connections, the punishment
of the Marshal was so far mitigated, that he was
not burned alive like Prelati. He was first stran-
gled, and then thrown into the flames: his body,
when half consumed, was given over to his relatives
for interment; while that of the Italian was burned
.to ashes, and then scattered in the winds.•
JACQUES C<EUR.
This remarkable pretender to the secret of the
philosopher's stone, was contemporary with the last
mentioned. He was a great personage at the court
of Charles VII, and in the events of his reign
played a prominent part. From a very humble
origin he rose to the highest honours of the state,
and amassed enormous wealth, by peculation and
the plunder of the country which he should have
served. It was to hide his delinquencies in this
respect, and to divert attention from the real source
of his riches, that be boasted of having discovered
• For full details of this extraordinary trial, see 1
' Lobineau's
Nouvelle Hiatoire de Bretagne.;" and D'Argentre'a work on the
same subject.
1\ I
THE ALCHYMISTS. 77
the art of transmuting the inferior metals into gold
and silver.
His father was a goldsmith in the city of Bourges;
but so reduced in circumstances towards the latter
years of his life, that he was unable to pay the ne-
cessary fees to procure his son's admission into the
guild. Young Jacques became, however, a work-
man in the Royal Mint of Bourges, in 1428, and
behaved himself so well, and showed so much know-
ledge of metaJJurgy, that he attained rapid pro-
motion in that establishment. He had also the
good fortune to make the acquaintance of the fair
Agnes Sorel, by whom be was patronized and much
esteemed. Jacques had now three things in his
favour-ability, perseverance, and the countenance
ofthe King's mistress. Many a man succeeds with
but one of these to help him forward : and it would
have been strange indeed, if Jacques Creur, who
had them all, should have languished in obscurity.
While still a young man he was made Master of
the Mint, in which he had been a journeyman, and
installed at the same time into the vacant office of
Grand Treasurer ofthe royal household.
He possessed an extensive knowledge of finance,
and turned it wondetfully to his own advantage
as soon as he became intrusted with extensive
funds. He speculated in articles of the first ne-
cessity, and made himself very unpopular by buy-
ing up grain, honey, wines, and other produce, till
there was a scarcity, when he sold it again at enor-
78 THE A.LCHYMISTS.
mons profit. Strong in the royal favour, he did
not hesitate to oppress the poor by continual acta
of forestalling and monopoly. As there is no ene-
my so bitter as the estranged friend, so of all
the tyrants and tramplers upon the poor. there is
none so fierce and reekless as the upstart that
sprang from their ranks. The oft'ensive pride of
Jacques Cceur to his inferiors was the theme of in-
dignant reproach in his own city, and his cringing
humility to those above him was as much an object
of contempt to the aristocrats into whose society he
thrust himself. But Jacques did not care for the
former, and to the latter he was blind. He con~
tinued his career till he became the richest man in
France, and so useful to the·King that no import-
ant enterprise was ·set on foot uqtil be bad been
consulted. · He was sent in 14.46 on an embassy to
Genoa, and in the following year to Pope Nicho-
las V. In both these missions he acquitted himself
to the satisfaction of his S9Ver~igo., at)d was re-
warded with a lucrative appojptm~nt, in addition
to those which he already held.
In the ye.ar 1449, the English iq Normandy, de-
prived .of their great gen~ral, the Duke of Bedford,
broke the truce with the French .J(ing, ~d took
possession of a small town belonging to tqe Duke
of Brittany. This was the signal for the recom-
me,D.cement of a w.ar, in which the Fre,nc4 regajned
pos~nion pf nearly the whole province. The mo-
RCJ for this w.ar was adv~ced, for the most part,
THE ALCHYMISTS. 79
by Jacques Creur. When Rouen yielded to the
French, and Charles made his triumphal entry into
that city, accompanied by Dunois and his most
famous generals, Jacques was among the most bril-
liant of his cort~ge. His chariot and horses vied
with those of the King in the magnificence of their
trappings ; and his enemies said of him that be
publicly boasted that be alone had driven out the
English, and that the valour of the troops would
would have been nothing without his gold.
Dunois appears, also~ to have been partly of the
same opinion. Without disparaging the courage
of the atmy, he acknowledged the utility of the
able financier, by whose means they had been fed
and paid, and constantly afforded him his powerful
protection.
When peace returned, Jacques again devoted
himself to commerce, and fitted up several galleys
to trade with the Genoese. He also bought large
estates in various parts of France ; the chief of
which were the baronies of St. Fargeau, Meneton,
Salone, Maubrancbe, Meaune, St. Gerant de Vaux,
and St. Aon de Boissy; the earldoms or counties
of La Palisse, Champignelle, Beaumont, and Ville-
neuve la Gen~t. and the marquisate of Toucy.
He also procured for his son, Jean Creur, who
had chosen the Church for his -profession, a post
no less distinguished than that of Archbishop of
Bourges.
Everybody said that so much -
wealth could not
,-
80 THE ·ALCHYMISTS.
have been honestly acquired; a.nd both rich and
poor longed for the day that should humble the
pride of the man, whom the one class regarded a.s
' an upstart and the other as an oppressor. Jacques
was somewhat alarmed at the .rumours that were
afloat respecting him, and of dark hints that he
had debased the coin of the realm and forged the
King's seal to an important document, by which he
had defrauded the state of very considerable sum~.
To silence these rumours, he invited many alchy-
mists from foreign countries to reside with him, and
circulated a counter-rumour, that he had discovered
the secret of the philosopher's stone. He also built
a magnificent house in his native city, over the
entrance of which he caused to be sculptured _
the
emblems of that science. Some time afterwards,
he built another, no less ·splendid, at Montpellier,
which be inscribed in a similar manner. He also
wrote a treatise upon the hermetic philosophy, in
which he pretended that he knew the secret of
transmuting metals.
-·~
But all these attempts to disguise his numerous
acts of peculation proved unavailing; and be w~s
arrested in 1452, and brought to trial on several
charges. Upon one only, which the malice of his
enemies invented to ruin him, was he acquitte4;
which was, that he bad been accessory to the deat~,
by poison, of his kind patroness, Agnes Sor~l.
Upon the others, be was found guilty ; and sen-
tenced to be banished the kingdom, and to pay the
1\
THE ALCHYMISTS. 81
enormous fine of four hundred thousand crowns.
It was proved that he had forged the King's seal;
that, in his capacity of Master of the Mint of
Bourges, he had debased, to a very great extent,
the gold and silver coin of the realm ; and that he
had not hesitated to supply the Turks with arms
and money to enable them to carry on war against
their Christian neighbours, for which service he
had received the most munificent recompences.
Charles VII. was deeply grieved at his condemna-
tion, and believed to the last that he was innocent.
By his means the fine was reduced within a sum
which Jacques Cceur could pay. After remaining
for some time in prison, he was liberated, and left
France with a large sum of money, part of which,
it was alleged, was secretly paid him by Charles
out of the produce of his confiscated estates, He
retired to Cyprus, where he died about 1460, the
richest and most conspicuous personage of the
island.
The writers upon alchymy aU claim Jacques
Cceur as a member of their fraternity, and treat
as false and libellous the more rational explanation
of his wealth which the records of his trial afford.
Pierre Borel, in his " Antiquites Gauloises,, main-
tains the opinion tlrat Jacques was an honest man,
and that he made his gold out of lead and copper
by means ofthe philosopher's stone. The alchymic
adepts in general were of the same opinion; but
they found it difficult to rersuade even his con-
VOL. IJJ. 0
1\
,.
8i THE ALCHYMISTS.
temporaries of the fact. P'OIJte.rity 1s still less
likely to believe it.
INFER.lOR ADEPTS OP THE FOURTEENTH .AND
FIFTEENTH CENTURIES.
Many other pretenders to the secrets of the
philosopher's stone appe&red in every country in
Europe, during the fourteenth and fifteenth cen~
turies. The possibility of transmutation was so
generally admitted, that every chemist waa more
or less an alchymist. Germany, Holland, Italy,
Spain, Poland, France, and England produced
thousands of obscure adepts, who supported them-
selves, in the pursuit of their chimera, by the more
profitable resources of astrology and divination.
The monarchs of Europe were no less persuaded
than their subjects of the possibility of discovering
the philosopher's stone.. HenryVI. and Edward IV.
of England encouraged alchymy. In Germany, the
Emperors Maximilian, Rodolph, and Frederic II.
devoted much of their attention to it ; and every
inferior potentate within their dominions imitated
their example. It was a common practice in Ger-
many, among the nobles a~d ~tty sovereigns, to
invite an alchymist to take up his residence. among
them, that they might confine him in a dungeon
till he made gold ettougb to pay millions for his
ransom. Many poor wretches suffered perpetual
imprisonment in consequence. 1\. similar fate ap-
pears to have been intended by Edward 11. for
1\
Raymc;»nd LuUi, ..Wo, upon the pretence that he
w~ thefeby ho11ou:r~d, wu aceommodat~ with
ppartmept~ in the Tower of London. He found
out in time th~ tri.ck that was al?out to be played
him, and managed to make his escape, some of
his l?iographers say.. by jumping into the Thames,
and swimming to a vesael that lay waiting to re,.
ceive him. In the sixteenth century, the same sys...
tem was pursued, as will be s.hown more fully in
the life of Seton the Cosmopolite, in the succeeding
chapter. -
The following is a catalogue of the chief authors
upon alchymy, wbo flourished during this epoch, and
whose lives and adventures are either unknown or
are unworthy of more detailed notice. John Dows-,.
ton.. an Englishman, lived in 1315, and wrote two
treatises on the philosopher's stone. Richard, or,
~ some call him, Robert, al.so an Englishma.n,
Uved in 1880, and wrote ~ work entitled '' Cor-
r~cto.-hun Alchymi~e," whic}l was much esteemed _
till the·time of Paracelsus. In the same year lived
Peter of Lombardy, who wrote what he called ~
u Cc;»mplete Treatise upon the Hermetic Science,''
an abridgem~nt of whiq\1 was afterwards published
by Lacini, a monk of Calabria. In 1830 the mQ~t
famous alchymist of Paris was ope OdQmare, whQ~e
work "De Practica Magistri'' was~ for a long time,
a hand-book among the brethr~n of the science.
John de Rupecissa, a French monk of tbe order of
St. Francis, flourished in 13q7, ~nd pretel}ded to
0~
THE ALCHYMISTS.
be a prophet as well .as an alchymist. Some of
his prophecies were so disagreeable to Pope In-
nocent VI, that the Pontiff determined to put a
stop to them, by locking up the prophet in the
dungeons of the Vatican. It is generally believed
that he died there, though there is no evidence of
the fact. His chiefworks are the" Book of Light,"
the u Five Essences," the n Heaven of Philoso-
phers," and his grand work u De Confectione Lapi-
dis." He was not thought a shining light among
the adepts. Ortholani was another pretender, of
whom nothing is known, but that he exercised the
arts of alchymy and astrology at Paris, shortly be-
fore the time of Nicholas Flamel. His work on
the practice of alchymy was written in that city
in 1358. Isaac of Holland wrote, it is supposed,
about this time; and his son also devoted himselfto
the science. Nothing worth repeating is known of
their lives. Boerhaave speaks with commendation
of many passages in their works, and Parace)sus
esteemed them highly : the chief are " De Triplici
Ordine Elixiris et Lapidis Theoria," printed at
Berne in 1608; and u Mineralia Opera, seu de
Lapide Philosophico,.. printed at Middleburg in
1600. They also wrote eight other works upon the
same subject. Koff'stky, a Pole, wrote an alchy-
mical treatise, entitled 11
The Tincture ofMinerals,"
about the year 1488. In this list of authors a
royal name must not be forgotten. Charles VI. of
France, one of the 'inost credulous princes of the
THE A.LCHYMISTS. 85
day, whose court absolutely swarmed with alchy-
mists, conjurers, astrologers, and quacks of every
description, made several attempts to discover the ,.
philosopher's stone, and thought he knew so much
about it, that he determined to enlighten the
world with a treatise. It is called the " Royal
Work of Charles VI. of France, and the Treasure
of Philosophy." It is said to be the original from
which Nicholas Flame} took the idea of his u Desir
Desire." Lenglet du Fresnoy says it is very alle-
gorical, and utterly incomprehensible. For a more
complete list of the hermetic philosophers of the
fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, the reader is re-
ferred to the third volume of Lenglet's History
already quoted.
\ I
86
THE ALCHYMISTS.
PAR'T II.
PROOBBSB OP TIIB INPATUA.TION DUBING TIU tiiX'l'BBNI'H AND 8BV11N-
TBBNTH CRN'l'URIBS.-A.UGURBLLO.-COBNB.Lll18 AGI\1PPA..-PA.RA.-
c11LSUS,-GBOllGB AGRICO'J:.A;~DBNYS ZACBAlBB.-JlR, DEB ANI>
Jn)WARD 'KBLLY.-THE COSiiOPOLlTR,--6BNDIVOOJU8.-THB ROBI·
CRUC1AN8.--:W:JCllABL :W:AY'BB.-ROBBRT J'LUDD.-JA.COB BOHHBN,
-JOHN BBYDN.-JOSEPH PRANCIS IIOBRJ.-ALCHY:W:ICAL WRITERS
OP 1'BB BBvXNTBBN1'B CRN1'URY.-DB i.JBLB.-A.LBBRT A.LUYS.
"'-<louNT v'B a'l'. ·onMAr-Na.-"-cAotloeuo.--l'RBSBNT sTArK oP
Tlf.l SCJBNCB.
DuRIN& the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries,
the search for the philosopher·s stone was continued
by thousands of the enthusiastic and the credulous ;
but a great change was introduced during this
period. The eminent men who devoted themselves
to the study, totally changed its asp~ct, and referred
to the possession of their wondrous stone and elixir,
not only the conversion of the base into the pre-
cious metals, but the solution of all the difficulties
of other sciences. They pretended that by its
means man would be brought into closer commu-
nion with his Maker ; that disease and sorrow would
be banished from the world; and that u the mil-
lions ofspiritual beings who walk the earth unseen"
would be rendered visible, and become the friends,
companions, and instructors of mankind. In the
1\
THE ALCHYM1STS. 87
seventeenth century more especially, these poetical
and fantastic doctrines excited the notice ofEurope;
and from Germany~ where they had been first dis-
seminated by Rosencreutz, spread into France and
England, and ran away with the sound judgment
of many clever, but too enthusiastic, searchers for
the truth. Paracelsus, Dee, and many others of
Jess note, were captivated by the grace and beauty
of the new mythology, which was arising to adorn
the literature of Europe. Most of the alchymi11ts
·of the sixteenth century, although ignorant of the
Rosicrucians as a sect, were, in some degree, tinc-
tured with their fanciful tenets : but before we
speak more fully of these poetical visionaries, it
will be necessary to resume the history of the her-
metic folly where we left off in the former chapter,
and trace the gradual change that stole over the
dreams of the ad·epts. It will be seen that -
the in..
fatuation increased rather than diminished aa the
world grew older.
AuauaBLLo.
Among the alcbymists who were born in the fif-
teenth, and distinguished themselves in the six-
teenth century, the first, in point of date, is John
Aurelio Augurello. He was born at Rimini in
1441, and became Professor of the belles kttres at
Venice and Trevisa. He was early convinced of
the truth of the herme.tic &ci~nce, and used to pray
to God that he might be happy enough to discove1"
1\
88 THE ALCHYMISTS.
the philosopher's stone. He was continually sur-
rounded by the paraphernalia of chemistry, and
expended all his wealth in the purchase of drugs
and metals. He was also a poet, but of less merit
than pretensions. His "Chrysopeia," in which be
pretended to teach the art of making gold, he dedi-
cated to Pope Leo X, in the hope that the Pontiff
would reward him handsomely for the compliment;
but the Pope was too good a judge of poetry to be
pleased with the worse than mediocrity of his poem:
and too good a philosopher to approve of the
strange doctrines which it inculcated : be wasJ
therefore, far from gratified at the dedication. It
is said, that when Augurello applied to him for
a reward, the Pope, with great ceremony and much
apparent kindness and cordiality, drew an empty
purse from his pocket, and presented it to the al-
chymist, saying, that since he was able to make
gold, the most appropriate present that could be
made him, was a·purse to put it in. This scurvy
reward was all that the poor alchymist ever got
either for his poetry or his alchymy. He died in a
state of extreme poverty, in the eighty-third year
of his age.
CoRNELIUS AoRIPPA.
This alchymist has left a more distinguished re-
putation. The most extraordinary tales were told
and believed of his powers. He could turn iron
into gold by his mere word. All the spirits of the
THE ALCHYMISTS. 89
air, and demons of the earth, were under his com-
mand, and bound to obey him in everything. He
could raise from the dead the forms of the great
men ofother days, and make them appear 11
in their
habit as they lived," to the gaze of the curious who
had courage enough to abide their pr.esence.
He was born at Cologne in 1486, and· began, at
an early age, the study of chemistry and philosophy.
By some means or other which have never been
very clearly explained, he managed to impress his
contemporaries with a great idea of his wonderful
attainments. At the early age of twenty, so great
was his reputation as an alchymist, that the prin-
cipal adepts of Paris wrote to Cologne, inviting
him to settle in France, and aid them with his
experience in discovering the philosopher's stone.
Honours poured upon him in thick succession; and
he was highly esteemed by all the learned men of
his time. Melancthon speaks of him with respect
and commendation. Erasmus also.bears'testimony
in his favour ; and the general voice of his age pro-
claimed him a light of literature and an ornament
to philosophy. Some men, by dint of excessive
egotis~, manage to .persuade their contemporaries
that they are very great men indeed : they publish
their acquirements so loudly in people's ears, and
keep up their own praises so incessantly, that the
world's applause is actually taken by storm. Such
seems to have been the case with Agrippa. He
called himself a sublime theol9gian, an excellent
1\
THE ALCHYMISTS.
jurisconsult, &n able physician, a great philosopher,
and a successful alchymist. The world, at last,
took him at hia word ; and thought that a man who
"' talked so big, must have some mex:it to recommend
him-that it was, indeed, a great trumpet which
sounded so obstreperous a blast. He was made
secretary to the Emperor Maximilian, who con-
ferred upon him the title of Chevalier, and gave
him the honorary command of a regiment. He
afterwards became Professor of Hebrew and the
belles lettres, at the University of D~le, in France;
but quarrelling with the FTanciscan monks upon
some knotty point of divinity, he was obliged to
quit the town. He took refuge in London, where
he taught Hebrew and cast nativities, for about
a year. From London he proceeded to Pavia,
and gave lectures upon the writings, real or sup-
posed, of Hermes Trismegistus ; and might have
·Jived there in peace and honour, had he not again
quarrelled with the clergy. By their means his
position became so disagreeable, that he· was glad
to accept an offer made him by the magistracy of
Metz, to become their Syndic and Advocate...Gene--
ral. Here, again, his love of disputation made him
enemies : the theological wiseacres of that city
asserted, that St. Anne had three husbands, in which
Qpinion they were confinned by the populat belief
of the day. Agrippa needlessly ran foul of this
Qpinion, or prejudice as be called. it, and thereby
lost much of his il\fluence. Another dispute, more
{ 1\ I I I
THE ALCHYMISTS. 91
creditable to his charset-er; occurred soon after, and
sank him for ever in the estimation ofthe Metzians.
Humanely taking the part of a young girl who was
accU;sed of witcheraft, his enemies aSBerte~d, that
he was himself a sorcerer; and raised such a storm
over his head, that he was forced to fly the city.
After this:; he becafile physician to Louisa de Savoy,
mother of King Francis I. This lady was curious
to know the future, and required her physician to
cast het nativity. Agrippa replied, that be would
not encourage such idle curiosity. The result was,
he lost her confidence, and was forthwith dismissed.
If it had been through his belief in the worthless~
ness of astrology, that he had. made his answer, we
might admire his honest and fearless independence ;
but, when it is known that, at the very same time, he
was in the constant habit ofdivination and fortune-
telling ; and that he was predicting splendid success~
in all his undertakings, to the Constable of Bour~
bo·n, we can only wonder at his thus estranging a
powerfu• friend through mere petulance and p-er-
-versity.
He was; about this time, invited both by Henry
VIII. of Englahd, and Margaret of Austria, Go-
verness of the Low Countries, to fix his residence
in lheit dominions. He chose the service of the
tatter, by whose influence he was made historio--
grapher to the Emperor Charles V; . Unfortu•
nately fo~ Agrippa, he neV'er had stability enough
to remain long in one position, and offimded his
,..
92 THE ALCHYMISTS.
patrons by ·his restlessness and presumption. After
the death of Margaret, be was imprisoned at Brus-
sels, on a charge of sorcery. He was released after
a year; and, quitting the country, experienced
many vicissitudes. He died. in great poverty in
15841, aged forty-eight years.
While in the service of Margaret of Austria, be
resided principally at Louvains ·in which city he "
wrote his famous work on the·Vanity .and Nothing-
ness ofhuman Knowledge. He also wrote, to please
his Royal Mistress, a treatise upon the Superiority
of the Female Sex, which be dedicated to her, in
token of his gratitude for the favours she had heap-
ed upon him. The reputation he left behind him
in these provinces was anything but favourable.
A great number of the marvellous tales that are
told of him, relate to this period of his life. It was
said, that the gold which he paid to the traders
with whom he dealt, always looked remarkably
bright, but invariably turned into pieces of slate
and stone in the course of four-and-twenty hours.
Of this spurious gold he was believed to have made
large quantities by ~he aid of the devil, who, it
would appear from this, bad but a very superficial
knowledge of alchymy, and much less than the
Marechal de Rays gave him credit for. The Jesuit
Delrio, in his book on Magic and Sorcery, relates a
still more e~traordinary story of him. One day,
Agrippa left his house, at Louvain; and, intending
to 1>e absent for some time, gave the key of his
THE ALCHYMISTS. 98
study tb his wife, with strict orders that no one
should enter it during his absence. The lady her-
self, strange as it may appear, h~d no curiosity to
pry into her husband's secrets, and never once
thought of entering the forbidden room : but a
young student, who had been accommodated with
an attic in the philosopher's house, burned with
a fierce desire to examine the study ; hoping, per-
chance, that he might purloin some book or imple-
ment which would instruct him in the art of trans-
muting metals. The youth., being handsome, elo-
quent, and, above all, highly complimentary to the
charms of the lady, she was persuaded. without
much difficulty, to )end him the key, but gave
him strict orders not to remove anything. The
student promised implicit obedience, and entered
Agrippa's study. The first object that caught his
attention, was a large grimoire, or book of spells,
which lay open on the philosopher's desk. He sat
himself down immediately, and began to read. At
the first word he uttered, he fancied he heard a
knock at the door. He listened; but aU was silent.
Thinking that his imagination had deceived him,
he read on, when immediately a louder knock was
heard, which so terrified him, that he started to his
feet. He tried to say, 11
come in;,. but his tongue
refused its office, and he could not articulate a
sound. He fixed his eyes upon the door, which,
slowly opening, disclosed a stranger of majestic
form, but scowling features, who demanded sternly,
THE ALCHY.MISTS.
why he was summoned 7 " I did not su~n yQu_,"
said the trembling student. " You did !" s&i(i the
stranger, advancing, angrily; u and the demons are
not to be invoked in vain." The student could
make no reply ; and the demon, enraged that one
of the uninitiated should have summoned him out
of mere presumption, seized him by the throat and
strangled him. When Agrippa returned, a few
days afterwards, he found his house beset with
devils. Some of them were sitting on the chimney-
pots, kicking -up their legs in the air; while others
were playing at leapfrog, on the very edge of the
parapet. His study was so filled with them, that
he found it difficult to make his way to his desk.
When, ,at last, he had elbowed his way through
them, he found his book open, and the student
lying dead upon the floor. He saw immediately
bow the mischief had been done ; and, dismissing
all the inferior imps, asked the principal demon
how he could have been so rash as to kill the
young man. The demon replied, that he had been
needlessly invoked by an insulting youth, an<l
could do no less than kill him for his presumption.
Agrippa reprimanded him severely, and ordered
him immediately to reanimate the dead body, and
walk about with it in the market-place for the
whole of the afternoon. The demon did so : the
student revived ; and, putting his arm through that
of his unearthly murderer, walked very lovingly with
him, in sight of all the people. At sunset, the body
THE ALCHYMISTS.
fell down again, cold and lifeless as before, and was
carried by the crowd to the hospital, it being the
_ general opinion that he bad expired in a fit of apo,.
plexy. His conductor immediately disappeared.
When the body was examined, marks of strangula~
tion were fo.und on the neck, and prints of the long
claws of the demon on various parts of it. These
appearances, togetber with a story, which soon ob-
tained currency, that the companion of the young
man had vanished in a cloud of flame and smoke,
opened people's eyes to the truth. The magis-
trates of Louvain instituted inqumes ; and the
result was, that Agrippa was obliged to quit the
town.
Other authors besides Delrio relate similar stories
of this philosopher. The world in those days was
always willing enough to believe in tales of magic
and sorcery ; and when, as in Agrippa's case, the
alleged magician gave himself out for such, and
claimed credit for the wonders he worked, it is not
~urpri!iing that the age should have allowed his
pretensions.. It was dangerous boasting, which
sometimes led to the stake or the gallows, and
therefore was t.hol)ght to be not without foundation.
Paulus Jovius, in his 11
Eulogia DoctorumVirorum,"
says, that the devil, in the shape of a large black
dog, attended Agrippa wherever be went. Thomas
Nash, in his adventures ofJack Wilton, relates, that
at the request of Lord SuJ'Irey, Erasmus, and some
other learned men, Agrippa called up from the
96 THE ALCHYMISTS.
grave many of the great philosophers of antiquity ;
among others, Tully, whom he caused to re-deliver
his celebrated oration for Rosoius. He also showed
Lord Surrey, when in Germany, an exact resem-
blance in a glass ofhis mistress t·he fair Geraldine.
She was represented on her couch weeping for the
absence of her lover. Lord Surrey made a note of
the exact time at which he saw this vision, and
ascertained afterwards that his mistress was actually
so employed at the very minute. To Thomas Lord
Cromwell, Agrippa represented King Henry VIII.
bunting in Windsor Park, with the principal lords
ofhis court; and to please the Emperor Charles V.
be summoned King David and King Solomon from
the tomb.
Naude, in his u Apology for the Great Men who
have been falsely suspected of Magic," takes a gr.eat
deal of pains to clear Agrippa from the imputations
cast upon him by Delrio, Paulus Jovius, and other
such ignorant and prejudiced scribblers. Such
stories demanded refutation in the days of Naude,
but they may now be safely left to decay in their
own absurdity. That they should have ~ttached,
however, to the memory of a man, who claimed the
power of making iron obey him when he told it
to become gold, and who wrote such a work as that
upon magic, which goes by his name, is not at all
surprlSlng.
Coogh:
THE .ALCHYMISTS. 97
pARACEl.SUS.
This philosopher, called by Naode, '( the zenith
and rising son of all the alchymists,'~ 'fas born nt
Einsiedeln, near Zorich, in the year .1493. His
true name was Hohe~h~im ;· to ·which', as he him-
self informs us, were ~prefixed t~e 'baptismal names
of Aoreolus Theophras~us Bombastes Paracelsus.
The last of these be chose for his. common desig-
nation \thile he was yet a boy; ·and rendered it, be-
fore he died, one of the most famous in the annals
of his time. His father, who was il physician; edu-
catedhis son for the same pursuit. The latter was an
apt scholar, and made great progress.. By chance
the work of Isaac- Holl~ndus feU into hi.s hands,
and from that time he. became smitten with the
mania of the phtlo'sophei':'s stQne. All his thoughts
henceforth were devoted-to metallurgy; and he tra-
velled into Sweden that be might visit the mines of
that country, and e_xamine the ores while they yet lay
in the bowels of the earth. He also visited Trithe-
mios at the mona&tery of Spannheim, and obtained
instructions from him in the science of alchymy.
Continuing his travels, he proceeded through Pros-.
sia and Austria into Turkey, Egypt, and Tatary,
and thence returning to Constantinople, learned, as .
he boasted, the art of transmutation, and became
possessed of the eli:J:ir vita. He the~ established
himself as a physician in his native Switzerland at ·
Zurich, and commenced writing works upon alchymy
VOL. lll, H
-."
98 THE ALCHYMISTS.
and medicine, which immediately fixed the atten-
tion of Europe. Their great obscurity was no im-
pediment to their fam~ ; for the less the author was
undt;rstood, the more the demonologists, fanatics,
and philosopher's-stone-hunters seemed to appre-
ciate him. His fame as a physician kept pace with
· that which he enjoyed as an alchymist, owing to his
having effected some happy cures by means of mer-
cury and opium; drugs unceremoniously condemned
by his professional brethren. In the year 1526, he
was chosen Professor of Physics and Natural Philo-
sophy in the University of Basle, where his lectures
attracted vast numbers of students. He denounced
the writings of alJ former physicians as tending to
mislead; and publicly burned the works of Galen
and Avicenna, as quacks and impostors. He ex,.
claimed, in presence of the admiring and half-
bewildered crowd, who assembled to witness the
ceremony, that there was more knowledge in his
shoestrings than in the writings of these.physicians.
Continuing in the same strain, he said all the uni-
versities in the world were fuJI of ignorant quacks;
but that he, Paracelsus, overflowed with wisdom.
u You will all follow my new system," said he, with
furious gesticulations, " Avicenna, Galen, Rhazis,
Montagnana, Meme-you wil.l all follow me, ye
professors of Paris, Montpellier, Germany, Cologne,
and Vienna! and all ye that dwell on .the Rhine
and the Danube-ye that inhabit the isles of. the
sf!a ; and ye also, Italians, Dalmatians, Athenians,
THE ALCUYMISTS. 99
Arabians, Jews- ye will all follow my doctrines,
for I am the monarch of medicine f"
But he·did not long enjoy the esteem of the good
citizens of Basle. It is s~id that be.indulged in
wine ,so freely,, as not unfrequently to be seen in the
streets in a state of intoxication. This was ruinous
for a physician, and his good fame decreased rapidly.
His ill fame increased in still greater. proportion,
especially when be assumed the airs of a sorcerer.
He boasted of the legions of spirits at his command ;
and of one especially, which he kept imprisoned in
the hilt of hi.s aword. Wetterus, who lived twenty.
seven months in his service, relates that he often
threatened to invoke a whole army ofdemons, and
ahow him the great authority which he could exer-
cise over them. He let it be believed, that the
spirit in his sword had custody of the elixir of life,
by means of which be could make any one live to
be as old as the antediluvians. He also boasted
that he had a spirit at his command, calJed "Azoth,"
whom he.kept imprisoned in a jewel; and in man'
of the old portr.aits be is represented with a jewel,
inscribed with the word u Azoth," in his baud.
If a sober prophet has little honour in his own
·Country, a drunken one has still less. Paracelsus
found it at last convenient to quit Basle, and estab.
·lisb himself at Strasbourg. The immediate cause of
·this change of residence was as follows :-A citizen
lay at' the point of death, and was given over by all
·the physicians of the town. As alast resourc~ Para-
H ~ ·
1\
100 THE ALCHYMISTS.
ce}sus was called in, to whom the sick man promised
a magnificent recompence, if by his means he were
cured. Paracelsus gave him.two small pills, which
the man took and rapidly recovered. When he was
quite weH, Para~elsus sent for his fee; but the
citizen bad no great opinion of the value of a cure
w_
hich had been so speedily effected. He bad no
notion of paying a handful of gold for two pills,
although they had saved his life, and he refused to
pay more than the usual fee for a single visit. Para-
celsus brought an action against him, and lost
it. This result so exasperated him, that he left
Basle in high dudgeon. He resumed his wandering
life, and travelled in Germany and Hungary, sup-
porting himself as he went on'the credulity and in-
fatuation ofall classes ofsociety. He cast nativities
-told fortunes- aided those who bad money to
throw away upon the experiment, to find the philo-
sopher's st{me - prescribed remedies for cows and
pigs, and aided in the recovery of stolen goods. Af-
ter residing successively at Nuremhurg, Augsburg,
Vienna, and Mindelheim, he retired in the year
1541 to Saltzbourg, and died in a state of abject
poverty in the hospital of that town.
If this strange charlatan found hundreds of ad-
mirers during his life, be found thousands after
his death. A sect of Paracelsists sprang up in
France and Germany, to perpetuate the extrava-
gant doctrines of their founder upon all the sciences,
and upon alchymy in particular. The chief lead-
ers were Bodenstein and Dorneus. The following
1\
THE ALCHYMISTS. 101
is a summary of his doctrine, founded upon the
supposed existence of the philosopher's stone ; it is
worth preserving from its very absurdity, and alto-
gether unparalleled in the history of philosophy:-
First of all, he maintained that the contemplation
of the perfection of the Deity sufficed to procure
all wisdom and knowledge; that the Bible was the
key to the theory of all diseases, and that it was
necessary to search into the Apocalypse to know
the signification of magic medicine. The man who
blindly obeyed the·will of God, and who succeed-
ed in identifying himself with the celestial intel-
ligences, possessed the philosopher's stone - he
could cure all diseases, and prolong· life to · as
many c.enturies as he pleased; it being by the very
same means that Adam and the antediluvian patriw
archs prolonged theirs. Life was an emanation
from the stars - the sun governed the heart, and
the moon the brain. Jupiter governed the liver,
Saturn the gall, Mercury the lungs, Mars the bile,
and Venus the loins. I~ the stomach of every
human being there dwelt a demon, or intelligence,
that was a sort of alcbymist in his way, and mixed,
in their due proportions, in his crucible, the various
aliments that were sent into that grand 'laboratory
tbe belly.* He was proud of tbe title of magician,
and boasted that he kept up a regular correspond-
ence with Galen from hell ; and that he often sum-
moned Avicenna from the same regions to dispute
• See the article "Paraeelsus," by the learned Renaudin, in the
" Biographie Universelle."
/
"-
•
10~ THE ALCHYMISTS.
with him on the false notions he had promulgated
respecting alchymy, and especially regarding po...
teble gold and the elixu of life. He imagined that
gold could cure ossification of the heart, and, in
fact, all diseases, i£ it. were gold which had been
transmuted from an inferior metal by means of the
philosopher's stone, and if it were applied under
certain conjunctions of the planets. The mere list
of the works in which be advances these frantic
imaginings, which he called adoctrine, would oc-
cupy several pages.
GEORGE .AGRICOLA..
This alchymist was born in the province of
Misnia,.in 1494. His real name was Bauer, mean-
ing a husbandman, which, in ae.cordance with the
common fashion of his age, he Latinized into Agri-
~ola. From his early youth, he delighted in the
visions of the hermetic science. Ere he was six-
teen, he longed for the great elixir which waa· to
make him live for seven hundred years, and for the
&tone which was to procure him wealth to cheer
biro. in his multiplicity of days. He published a
small treatise upon the subject at Cologne, in 1581,
which obtained him the patronage of·the celebr-ated
Maurice, Duke of Saxony. After practising for
some yeal'S as a physician at Joachimsthal, in Bo-
hemia, he was employed by Maurice as superin-
tendent of the silver mines of Chemnitz. He led
a happy life among .the miners, making various
ll I
,.
'
THE . ALCHYMISTS. 103
experiments in alchymy while deep in the bowels
of the earth. He acquired a great knowledge of
metals, and gradually got rid of his extravagant
ootiolli! about the philosopher's stone. The miners
had no faith in alchyltly ; and they converted him
to their way of thinking, not only in that but in
other respects. From their legends, he became
firmly convinced that the bowels of the earth were
inhabited by good and evil ~pirits, and that fire-
damp and other explosions sprang from no other
causes than the mischievous propensities of the
latter. He died in the year 1555, leaving behind
him the reputation of a very able and in~lligent
man.
DENIS ZACHAIRE.·
Autobiograp~y, written by a wise man who was.
once a fool, is not only the most instructive, but
the most df!lightful of reading. Denis Zaehaire, an
alchymist of the sixteenth century, has performed
this task, and left a record of his folly and infatua-
tion in pursuit of the philosopher's stone, which well
repays perusal. He was born in the year 1510, of
an ancient family in Guienne, and was early sent
.to the university of Bordeaux, under the care of
a tutor to direct his studies. Unfortunately, his
tutor was a searcher for the grand elixir. and soon
rendered his pupil as mad ns himself upon the
.
subject. With this introduction, we will allow
Denis Zachaire to speak for himself, and continue
his narrative in his own w01·ds :-" I received from
10~ '(lJE ALCUYMISTS.
hornet" says he, "the sum of two hundred crowns
for the expenses of myself and master ; but before
the end of the year, all our money went away in the
smoke of our furnaces. My master, at the. same
time, died of a fever, brought on by the parching
heat of our laboratory, from which he seldom or
never stirred, and which was scarcely less hot than
the arsenal of Venice. His death was the more
unfortunate for me, as my parents took the oppor-
tunity of reducing my allowance, and sending me
only sufficient for my board and lodging, instead of
the sum I required to continue my operations in
alcbymy.
'f To meet this difficulty and get out of leading-
strings, I returned home at the age of twenty-five,
and mortgaged part of my property for four hun-
dred crowns. This sum was necessary to perform
an operation of the science, which had been com-
municated to me by an Italian at Tou-louse, and
who, as he said, had proved its efficacy. I re-
tained this man in my service, that we might see
the end of the experiment. I then, by means of
strong distillations, tried to calcinate gold and
silver ; but all my labour was in vain. The weight
of the gold I drew out of my furnace was dimi-
nished by one-half since I put it in, and my four
hundred crowns were very soon reduced to two
hundred and thirty. I gave twenty of these to mY.
Italian, in order that he might travel to Milan,
where the author of the receipt resided, and ask
THE ALCHYMISTS. 105
him the explanation of some passages which we
thought obscure. I remained at Toulouse all the
winter, in the hope of his return; but I might have
Temained there till this day if I had waited for him,
Tor I never saw his face again.
u In the succeeding summer there was a great
plague, which forced me to quit the town. I did
not, however, lose sight of my work. I went to
Cahors, where I remained six months, and made
the acquaintance of an old man, who was com-
monly known to the people as ' the Philosopher ;'
a name which, in country places, is often ·bestowed
upon people whose only merit is, that ·they are less
ignorant than their neighbours. I showed him my
collection of alchymical receipts, and asked his
opinion upon them. He picked out ten or twelve
of them, merely saying that they were better than
the others. When the plague ceased, I returned
to Toulouse, and recommenced my experiments
in search of the stone: I worked to such effect
that my four . hundred crowns were reduced to
one hundred and seventy. ·
" That I might continue my work on a safer
method, I made acquaintance, in 1587, with a cer·
tain Abbe, who resided in the neighbourhood. He
was smitten with the same mania as myself, and told
me that one of his friends, who bad followed to Rome
in the retinue of the Cardinal d'Armagnac, bad
sent him from that city a new receipt, which could
not fail to transmute iron and copper, but which
106 THE ALCHYMISTS.
would coat two hundred crowns. I provided half
this money, and the Abbe the. rest ; and we began
to operate at our joint expense. As we required
spirits of wine for our experiment. I bought a tun
of excellent vin de Gaillac. I extracted the spirit,·
and rectified it several timesr We took a quantity
of this, into which we put four marks ofsilver. and
one of gold, that had been undergoing the proce~
of calcination for a month, We put this mixture
cleverly into a sort of horn-shaped vessel, with
another to serve as a retort ; and placed the whole
apparatw upon our furnace. to produce congela-
tion. This experiment 186ted a year; but, not tQ
Femain idle, we amused ourselves with many other
less important operations. We drew quite as much
profit from these as from our great work.
The whole of the year 1537 J>llSSed over without
producing any change whatever: .in fact, we might
have waited till doomsday for the congelation or
our spirits of wine. However.. we made a pro-
jection. with it upon some heated quicksilver ; but
alJ was in vain. Judge of our chagrin, especially of
that of the Abbe, who had already boasted to all
the monks of his monastery, that they had only
to bring the large pump which stood in a corner of
the cloister, and he would convert it into gold; bu.t
this ill luck, did not prevent us from perserering.
I once more mortgaged my paternal lands for four
hundred crowns, the whole of which I determined
to devote to a renewal of my search for the great
THE ALCHYMISTS. 107
secret. The Abbe contributed the same sum; and,
with these eight hundred crowns, I proceeded to
Paris, a city more abounding with alchymists than
any other in the world, resolved never to leave it
until I had either found the philosopher's stone, or
spent all my money. This journey gave the great-
est offence to all my relations and friends, who-,
imagining that I was fitted to be a great lawyer,
were anxious that I should establish myself in that
profession. For the sake of quietness, I pretended,
at last, that such was my object.
u After travelling for fifteen days, I arrived in
Paris, 01,1 the 9th of January 1539. I remained for
a month, almost unknown; but I had no sooner
begnn. to frequent the amateurs of the science, and
visited the shops of the furnace-makers, than I bad
the acquaintance of more than a hundred operative
alchymists, each of whom had a different theory and
a different mode ofworking. Some of them pre-
ferred cementation ; others sought the universal a}..
kahest, or dissolvent~ and some ofthem boasted the
great efficacy of the essence of emery. Some of
them endeavoured to extract mercury from other
metals to fix it afterwards ; and, in order that each
of us should be thoroughly acquainted with the pro..
ceedings of the others, we agreed to meet some--
where .every night, and report progress. We met
sc;>metimes at the house of one, and sometimes. in
the garret of another; not only on week days, but
c;m Sundays, and the great festivals of the Church_.
1\
108 THE ALCHYMlS'l'S.
~ Ah !' one used to say, 'if I had the means of
recommencing this experiment, I should do some-
thing.' • Yes,' said another, •if my crucible had
not cracked, I should have succeeded before now :'
while a third exclaimed, with a sigh~ 'If I had but
had a round copper vessel of sufficient strength, I
would have fixed mercury with silver.' There was
not one among them· who had not some excuse for
his failure ; but I was deaf to all their speeches. I
did not want to part with my money to any of
them, remembering how often I had been the dupe
of such promises.·
u A Greek at last presented himself; and with him
I worked a long time uselessly upon nails, made of
cinabar, or vermilion. I was also acquainted with
a foreign gentleman newly arrived in Paris, and
often accompanied him to the shops of the gold-
smiths, to sell pieces of gold and silver, the pro-
duce, as he said, ofhis experiments. I stuck closely
to him for a long time, in the hope that he would
impart his secret. He refused.for a long time, but
acceded, at last, on my earnest entreaty, and I
round that it was nothing more than an ingenious
trick. I did not fail to inform my-friend, the Abbe,
whom I bad left at Toulouse, of all my adventures;
and sent him, among other matters, a relation of
the trick by which this gentleman pretended to turn
lead into gold. The Abbe still imagined that I
should succeed at last, and advised me to remain
another year in Paris, where I bad made so good' a
THE "ALCHYMlSTS. 109
beginning. I remained there three years ; but, not.
withstanding all my efforts, I had no more success
than I had had elsewhere.
11
I had just got to the end of my money, when
I received a letter from the Abbe, telling me to
leave everything, and join him immediately at Tou-
louse. I went accordingly, and found that he bad
received letters from the King of Navarre (grand-
father of Henry IV). This Prince ":as a great lover
of philosophy, full of curiosity, and had written to
the Abbe, that I should visit him at Pau ; and that
he would give me three or four thousand crowns, if
I would communicate the secret I had learned from
the foreign gentleman. The Abbe's ears were so
tickled with the four thousand crowns, that he let
me have no peace, night or day, until he had fairly
seen me on the road to Pau. I arrived at that
place in the month of May 1542. I worked away,
and .succeeded, according to the receipt I had ob-
tained. When I had £nished, to the satisfaction of
the King, he gave me the reward that I expected.
Although he was willing enough to do me further
service, he was dissuaded from it by the lords of his
court; even by many of those who had been most
anxious that I should come. He sent me then
about my busine.ss, with many thanks; saying, that
if there was anything in his kingdom which he could
give rue-such as the produce of confiscations, or
the like-be should be most happy. I thought
I might stay long enough for these prospective con-
•
11'0 THE ALCHYM'ISTS.
6scations, and never get them at last ; and I there-
fore determined to go back to my friend, the Abbe.
" I learned, that Qn the road between Pau and
TouloJ18e, ther~ resided a monk, who was very.skil-
ful in all matters of natural philosophy. On my
return, I paid him a visit. He pitied me very
much,. and advised me, with much warmth and
kindness of expression, not to atnuse myself any
longer with such experiments as these, which were
all false and sophistical ; but that I should read
the good ·books of the old philosophers, where I
might not only find the true matter of the science
of alchymy, but learn also the exact order of oper-
ations which ought to be followed. I very much
approved of this wise advice; but, before f acted
upon it, I went back to my Abbe, of Toulouse, to
give him an. account of the eight·hundred crowns,
which we had had in common ; and, at the same
time, share with himsuch reward as I had receive~
from the King of Navarre. If be was little satisfied
with the relation of my adventures since our first
separation, he appeared still less satisfied when I
told him I had formed &
.resolution to renounce the
search for the philosopher's stone. The reason was,
that he thought me a good artist. Of ·our eight
hundred crowns, there remained but one hundred
and seventy-six. When l quitted the Abbe, I went
to my own bouse, with the intention of remaining
there, till I had read all the old philosophers, and
of then proceeding to Paris.
•
THE ALCHYMISTS. Ill
"I arrived in Paris on the day after All Saints,
of the year 1646, and devoted another year to the
assiduous study of great authors. Among others,
the' Turba Philosophorum ' ofthe ' Good Trevisan,'
~ The Remonstance of Nature to the wandering
Alchymist,' by Jean de Meung; aod several others
of the best books : but, as I had no right principles,
I did not well know.what course to follow.
"At last I left my, solitude; not to see t;nY former
acquaintances, the adepts and operators, but to
frequent the society of true philosophers. Among
them I fell into still grenter uncertainties ; being,
iJl fact, completely bewildered by the variety of
operations which they showed me. Spurred on,
nevertheless, by a sort of frenzy or inspiration, I •
threw myself into the works of Raymond Lulli and
of Arnold de Villeneuve. The reading of these, and
the reflections 1 made upon them, occupied me for
another year, when I finally determined on the
eourse I should adopt. I was obliged to wait,.
however, until I had mortgaged another very c-on-
siderable portion of my patrimony. This business
w.as not settled until the beginning .of Lent, 1549,
when I commenced my operations. I laid in a
stock of all that was necessary, and began to
work the day after Easter. It was not, however, -
without some disquietude and opposition frQm
my .friends who came about me; one asking me
what I was going to do, and whether I bad
not already spent ··money enough upon such fol-
~ I
lHl THE ALCHYMISTS.
lies. Another assured me that, if I bought so
much charcoal, I should strengthen the suspicion
already existing, that I was a coiner of base money.
Another advised me to purchase some place in the
magistracy, as I was already a Doctor of Laws.
My relations spoke in terms still more annoying
to me, and even threatened that, if I continued
to make such a fool of myself, they would send a
posse of police.officers into my house, and break
all my furnaces and crucibles into atoms. I was
wearied almost to death by this continued perse-
cution ; but I found comfort in my work and in the
progress of my experiment, to which I was very
attentive, and which went on bravely from day to
day. About this time, there was a dreadful plague
in Paris, which interrupted all intercourse between
man and man, and left me as much to ·myself as
I could desire. I soon bad the satitifaction to re-
mark the progress and succession of the three
colours which, according to the philosophers, al-
ways prognosticate the approaching perfection of
the w.ork. I observed them distinctly, one after
the other; and next year, being Easter Sunday,
1550, I made the great trial. Some common
quicksilver, which I put into a small crucible on
· the fire, was, in less than an hour, converted into
very good gold. You may judge how great was
my joy, but I took care not to boast of it. I
returned thanks to God for the favour he had
shown me, and prayed that I might only be per-
1\ I
THE ALCHYMISTS. ll8
mitted to make such use of it as would redound
to his glory.
"On the following day, I went towards Toulouse
to find the Abbe, in accordance with a mutual pro-
mise that we should communicate our discoveries
to each other. On my way, I called in to see the
sage monk who had assisted me with his counsels;
but I had the sorrow to learn that they were both
dead. After this, I would not return to my own
home, but retired to another place, to await one
of my relations whom I had left in charge of my
estate. I gave him orders to sell all that belonged
to me, as well movable as immovable- to pay
my debts with the proceeds, and divide all the rest
among those in any way related to me who might
stand in need of it, in order that they might enjoy
some share of the good fortu:pe which had befallen
me. · There was a great deal of talk in the neigh-
bourhood about my precipitate retreat; the wisest
of my acquaintance imagining that, broken down
and ruined by my mad expenses, I sold my little
remaining property that I might go and hide my
11hame in distant countries.
u My relative already spoken of rejoined me on
the lJ;t of July, after having performed all the busi-
ness I had intrusted him with. We took our de-
parture together, to seek a land of liberty. We first
retired to Lausanne, in Switzerland, when, after
remaining there for some time, we resolved to
pass . the remainder of our days in some of the
VOL. liT.
1\
....
-
THE ALCHYMISTS.
most celebrated cities of Germany, living quietly
and without splendour."
Thus ends the story of Denis Zachaire, as
written by himself. He has not been so candid
at its conclusion as at its commencement, and
has left the world in doubt as to his real motives
for pretending that he had discovered the philo-
sopher's stone. :It seems probable that the sen-
tence he puts intp the mouths of his wisest ac-
quaintances was tbe true reason of his retreat;
that he was, in fact,. red.uced to poverty, and hid
his shame. in. foreign countries. Nothing further
is known of his life, and his.real name has never
yet been' discovered.. He wrote a work on al-
ch)'my, entitled " Th~ trJJ.~ ·Natural Philosophy of
Metals."
. .
John Dee and Edwaid Kelly claim to be men-
tioned together, having been so long associated in
the same pursuits, and undergone so many strange
vicissitudes in each other's society. Dee was al-
together a wonderful man, and had he lived in
an age when folly and superstition were less rife,
he would, with the same powers which he enjoyed,
have left behind him a bright and enduring re-
putation. He was born in London, in the year
1527, and very early manifested a love for study.
At the age of fifteen be was sent to Cambridge,
f • ttJuu P'! r~ ~; v I !
THE ALCHYMISTS. 115
and delighted so much in his books, that he passed
regularly eighteen hours every day among them.
Of the other six, he devoted four to sleep and
two for refreshment. Such intense application did
not injure his health, and could not fail to make
him one of the first scholars of his time. Unfor-
tunately, however, he quitted the mathematics and
the pursuits of true philosophy to indulge in the
unprofitable reveries of the occult sciences. He
studied alchymy. astrology, and magic, and thereby
rendered himself obnoxious to the authorities at
Cambridge. To avoid persecution, he was at last
obliged to retire to the university of Louvain; the
rumours of sorcery that were current respecting him
rendering his longer stay in England not altogether
without danger. He found at Louvain many kin-
dred spirits who had known Cornelius Agrippa
while he resided among them, and by whom he
was constantly entertained with the wondrous deeds
of that great master of the hermetic mysteries.
From their conversation he received much encou-
ragement to continue the search for the philo~
Sopher's stone, which soon began to occnpy nearly
all his thoughts.
He did not long remain on the Continent, but
returned to England in 1551, being at that time
in the twenty-fourth year of his age. By the in-
fluence of his friend, Sir John Cheek, he was kindly
received at the court of King Edward VI, .and
rewarded (it is difficult to say for what) with a
12
116 THE ALCHYMISTS.
pension of one hundred crowns. He continued for
several years to practise in London as an astro-
loger; casting nativities, telling fortunes, and point-
ing out lucky and unlucky days. During the reign
of Queen Mary he got into trouble, being suspected
of heresy, and charged with attempting Mary's life
by means of enchantments. He was tried for the
latter offence, and acquitted; but was retained in
prison on the former charge, and left to the tender
mercies of Bishop Bonner. He had a very narrow
escape from being burned in Smithfield, but he,
somehow or other, contrived to persuade that fierc.
e
bigot that his orthodoxy was unimpeachable, and
was set at liberty in 1555.
On the accession of Elizabeth, a brighter day
dawned upon him. During her retirement at
Woodstock, her servants appear to have consulted
him as to the time of Mary's death, which circum-
stance, no doubt, first gave rise to the serious charge
for which he was brought to trial. They now came
to consult him more openly as to the fortunes
of their mistress ; and Robert Dudley, the cele-
brated Earl of Leicester, was sent by command of
the Queen herself to know the inost auspicious day
for her coronation. So great was the favour he
enjoyed that, some years afterwards, Elizabeth con-
descended to pay him a visit at his house in Mort-
lake, to view his museum of curiosities, and, when
he was ill, sent her own physician to attend upon
him.
1\
THE ALCHYMISTS. 117
Astrology was the means whereby he lived, and
he continue• to practise it with great assiduity;
but his· heart was in alchymy. The philoso-
pher's stone and the elixir of life haunted his
daily thoughts and his nightly dreams. The Tal-
mudic mysteries, which he had also deeply studied,
impressed him with the belief, that he might hold
converse with spirits and angels, and learn from
them all the mysteries of the universe. Holding the
same idea as the then obscure sect of the Rosicru-
cians, some of whom he had perhaps encountered
in his travels in Germany, be imagined that, by
means of the philosopher's stone, he could summon
these kindly spirits at his will. By dint of con-
tinually brooding upon the subject, his imagination
became so diseased, that he at last persuaded him-
self that an angel appeared to him, and promised
to be his friend and companion as long as he lived.
He relates that, one day, in November 1582, whiltt
he was engaged in fervent prayer, the window of
his museum looking towards the west suddenly
glowed with a dazzling light, in the midst of which,
in all his glory, stood the great angel Uriel. Awe
and wonder rendered him speechless ; but the angel
smiling graciously upon him, gave him a crystal,
of a convex form, and told him that, whenever he
wished to hold converse with the beings of another
sphere, he had only to gaze intently upon it, and
they would appear in the crystal and unveil to
1\
118 THE ALCHYMISTS.
him all the secrets of futurity.• This saying, the
angel disappeared. Dee found from experience of
the crystal that it was necessary that all the facul-
ties of the soul should be concentrated upon it,
otherwise the spirits did not appear. He also
found that he could never recollect the conversa-
tions he had with the angels. He therefore deter-
mined to communicate the secret to another per-
son, who might converse with the spirits while he
(Dee) sat in another part of the room, and took
down in writing the revelations which they made.
He had at this time in his service, as his assist-
ant, one Edward Kelly, who, like himself, was crazy
~pon the subject of the philosopher's stone. There
was this difference, however, between them, that,
while Dee was more of an enthusiast than an im-
postoi, Kelly was more of an impostor than an
enthusiast. In early life he was a notary, and had
the misfortune to lose both his ears for forgery. This
mutilation, degrading enough in any man, was de-
structive to a philosopher; Kelly, therefore, lest
• The "crystal" alluded to appears to have been a black atone,
or piece of polished coal. The following account of it is given in
the Supplement to Granger's" Biographical History."-" The black
atone into which Dee used to call his spirits was in the collection
of the Earls of Peterborough, from whence it came to Lady Eliza-
beth Gilnnaine. It was next the property of the late Duke of
Argyle, and is now Mr. Walpole's. It appears upon examination
to be nothing more than a polished piece ofcannel coal; but this
i1 what Butler means whtm ht~ RI\JR,
' Kelly did all his feats upon
The devil's looking-glass-a stone.'"
THE ALCHYMISTS. 119
his wisdom should suffer in the world's opinion,
wore a black skull-cap, which, fitting close to his
head, and descending over both his cheeks, not
only concealed his loss, but gave him a very solemn
and oracular appearance, So well did he keep his
secret, that even Dee, with whom he lived so many
years, appears never to have discovered it. KeUy,
with this character, was just the man to carry on
any piece of roguery for his own advantage, or
to nurture the delusions of his master for the same
purpose. No sooner did Dee inform him of the
visit he had received from the glorious Uriel, than
Kelly expressed such a fervour of belief that Dee's
heart glowed with delight. He set about consult-
ing his crystal forthwith, and on the 2nd of De-
·-z cember 1~581, the spirits appeal'ed, and held a very
extraordinary discourse with Kelly, which Dee took
down in writing. The curious reader may see this
farrago of nonsense among the Harleian MSS. in
the British Museum. The later consultations were
published in a folio volume, in 1659, by Dr. Meric
Casaubon, under the title of n A True. and Faith-
ful Relation of what passed between Dr. John Dee
and some Spirits; tending, had it s~cceeded, to a
general Alteration of most States and Kingdoms in
the World."•
• Lilly, the astrologer, in hie Life written by himself, frequently
tells ofprophecies delivered by the ange1s in a manner similar to
the angels of Dr. Dee. He says, •• The prophecies were not given
vocally by the angels, but by inspection ofthe crystal in types and
120 THE ALCHYMISTS.
The fame of these wondrous colloquies soon
spread over the country, and even reached the
Continent. Dee, at the same time, pretended to
be in possession of the eli.rir vita:, which he stated
he had found among the ruins of Glastonbury Ab-
bey, in Somersetshire. People flocked from far
and near to his house at Mortlake to have their
nativities cast, in preference to visiting astrologers
of less renown. They also longed to see a man
who, according to his own account, would never
die. Altogether, be carried on a very profitable
trade, but spent so much in drugs and metals to
work out some peculiar process of transmutation,
that he never became rich.
About this time there came into England a
wealthy polish nobleman, named Albert Laski,
Count Palatine of Siradz. His object was prin-
cipally, he said, to visit the court of Queen Eliza-
beth, the fame of whose glory and magnificence
had reached him in distant Poland. Elizabeth
received this flattering stranger with the most
splendid hospitality, and appointed her favourite
Leicester to show him all that was worth seeing
in England. He visited all the curiosities of Lon-
don and Westminster, and from thence proceeded
figures, or by apparition the circular war; where, at some dis-
tance, the angels appear, representing by forms, shapes, and crea-
tures what is demanded. Itis very rare, yea, even in our days,"
quoth that wiseacre, «for any operator or master to hear the
angels speak articulately: when they do speak, it i" like the Iri,h,
much in the throat J"
THE ALCHYMISTS. 121
to OxfoTd and Cambridge, that he might converse
with some of the great scholars whose writings shed
'- lustre upon t~e land of their birth. He was very
much disappointed at not finding Dr. Dee among
them, and told the Earl of Leicester that he would
not have gone to Oxford if he had known that Dee
was not there. The Earl promised to introduce
him to the great alchymist on their return to Lon·
don, and the Pole was satisfied. A few days after-
wards, tl1e Earl and Laski being in the antechamber
of the Queen, awaiting an audience of her Majesty,
Dr. Dee arrived on the same errand, and was in-
troduced to the Pole.• An interesting conversation
ensued, which ended by the stranger inviting him-
self to dine with the astrologer at his house at
Mortlake. Dee returned home in some tribula-
tion, for he found he had not money enough, with-
out pawning his plate, to entertain Count Laski
• Albert Laski, son of Jaroslav, was Palatine of Siradz, and
af\erwards of Sendomir, and chiefly contributed to the election of
Henry of Valois, the Third of France, to the throne ofPoland, and
was one of the delegates who went to France in order to announce
to the new monarch his elevation to the sovereignty of Poland.
After the deposition of Henry, Albert Laski voted for Maximilian
of Austria. In 1583 he visited England, when Queen Elizabeth
received him with great distinction. The honours which were
shown him during his visit to Oxford, by the especial command of
the Queen, were equal to those rendered to sovereign princes. His
extraordinary prodigality rendered his enormous wealth insufficient
to defray his expenses, and he therefore became a zealous adept in
alchymy, and toolc from England to Poland with him two known
alchymists.-Count Valerian Kra1imlci'' "RutoricaJ Sketch ofthe
Reformation in Poland."
I I
122 THE ALCHYMISTS.
and his retinue in a manner becoming their dig-
nity. In this emergency he sent off an express
to the Earl of LeicesterJ stating frankly the em-
barrassment he laboured under, and praying his
good offices in representing the matter to her
Majesty. Elizabeth immediately sent him a pre-
sent of twenty pounds.
On the appointed day, Count Laski came, at-
tended by a numerous retinue, and expressed such
open and warm admiration of the wonderful attain-
ments of his host, that Dee turned over, in his own
mind, how be could bind h·retrievably to his in-
terests a man who seemed so well inclined to be-
come his friend. Long acquaintance with Kelly
had imbued him with all the roguery of that per-
sonage ; and he resolved to make the Pole pay
dearly for his dinner. He found out, before many
days, that he possessed great estates in his own
country, as well as great influence; but that an
extravagant disposition had reduced him to tem-
porary embarrassment. He also discovered, that
he was a firm believer in the philosopher's stone
and the water of life. He was, therefore, just the
man upon whom an adventurer might fasten
himself. Kelly thought so too; and both of
them set to work, to weave a web, in the
meshes of which they might firmly entangle the
rich and credulous stranger. They went very
cautiously about it; first · throwing out obscure
hints of the stone and the elixir; and, finally, of
THE ALCHYMISTS. 123
the spirits, by means of whom they could turn over
the pages of the Book of Futurity, and read the
awful secrets inscribed therein. Laski _
eagerly
implored that he might be admitted to one of their
mysterious interviews with Uriel and the angels;
but they knew human nature too well to accede at
once to the request. To the Count's entreaties
they only replied by hints of the difficulty or im-
propriety of summoning the spirits in the presence
of a stranger ; or of one who might, perchance,
have no other motive than the gratification of a
vain curiosity: but they only meant to whet the
edge of his appetite by this delay, and would have
been sorry indeed if the Count had been discou-
raged. To show how exclusively the thoughts
both of Dee and Kelly were fixed upon their dupe,
at this time, it is only necessary to read the intro-
duction to their first interview with the spirits, re-
lated in the volume of Dr. Casaubon. The entry
made by Dee, under the date of the 25th of May
1583, says, that when the spirit appeared to them,
u J, [John Dee], and E. K. [Edward Kelly], sat
together, conversing of that noble Polonian Al-
bertus Laski, his great honour here with us ob-
tained, and of his great liking among aU .sorts of
the people." No doubt they were discussing how
they might make the most of the " noble Polonian,"
and concocting the fine story with which they after-
wards excited his curiosity, and drew him firmly
within their toils. "Suddenly,'' says Dee, as they
124 THE ALCHYMJSTS.
were thus employed, u there seemed to come out of
the oratory, a spiritual creature, like a pretty girl,
of seven or nine years of age, attired on her head,
with her hair rolled up before, and hanging down
behind; with a gown of silk, of changeable red
and green, and with a train. She seemed to play
up and dow.n, and seemed to go in and out behind
the books ; and, as she seemed to go between them,
the books displaced themselves, and made way for
her."
With sue~ tales as these they lured on the Pole
from day to day; and at last persuaded him to be
a witness of their mysteries. Whether they J>layed
off any optical delusions upon him; or whether,
by the force of a strong imagination, he deluded
himself, does not appear ; but certain it is, that he
became a complete tool in their hands, and con-
sented to do whatever they wished him. Kelly, at
these interviews, placed himself at a certain dis-
tance from the wondrous crystal, and gazed in-
tently upon it; while Dee took his place in a
corner, ready to set down the pro.phecies as they
were uttered by the spirits. In this manner they
prophesied to the Pole, that he should become the
fortunate possessor of the philosopher's stone ; that
he should live for centuries, and be chosen King of
Poland ; in which capacity he should gain many
great victories over the Saracens, and make his
name illustrious over all the earth. For this pur-
pose it was necessary, however, that Laski should
j ·~I
THE ALCHYMISTS. 125
leave England, and take them with him, together
with their wives and families ; that he should treat
them all sumptuously, and allow them to want for
nothing. Laski at once consented; and very shortly
afterwards they were all on the road to Poland.
It took them upwards of four months to reach
the Count's estates, in the neighbourhood of Cra-
cow. In the mean time, they led ·a pleasant life,
and spent money with an unsparing hand. When
once established in the Count's palace, they com-
menced the great hermetic operation of transmut-
ing iron into gold. Laski provided them with all
necessary materials, and aided them himself with
his knowledge of alchymy: but, somehow or other,
the experiment always failed at the very moment
that it ought to have succeeded; and they were
obliged to recommence operations on a grander
scale. But the hopes of Laski were not easily ex-
tinguished. Already, in idea, the possessor ofcount-
less millions, he was not to be cast down for fear of
present expenses. He thus continued from day
to day, and from month to month, tiJl he was, at
last, obliged to sell a portion of his deeply-mort-
gaged estates, to find aliment for the hungry cru-
cibles of ·nee and Kelly, and the no less hungry
stomachs of their wives and families. It was not
till ruin stared him in the face, that he awoke from
his dream of infatuation-too happy, even then, to
find that be had escaped utter beggary. Thus re..
stored to his senses, his first thought was how to
{ I
126 THE ALCHYMJSTS.
rid himself of his expensive visiters. Not wishing
to quarrel with them, he proposed that they should
proceed to Prague, well furnished with letters of
recommendation to the Emperor Rudolph. Our
alchymists too plainly saw that nothing more was
to be made of the almost destitute Count Laski.
Without hesitati·on, therefore, they accepted the
proposal~ and set out forthwith to the Imperial resi-
dence. They had no difficulty, on their arrival at
Prague, in obtaining an audience of the Emperor.
They found him willing enough to believe that
such a thing as the philosopher's stone existed'" and
flattered themselves that they had made a favour-
able impression upon him ; but, from some cause or
other- perhaps the look of low cunning and quack-
ery upon the face of Ke1ly-the Emperor conceived
no very high opinion of their abilities. He allowed
them, however~ to remain for some months at
Prague, feeding themselves upon the hope that be
would employ them: but the more he saw of them,
the less he liked them ; and, when the Pope's
Nuncio represented to him, that he ought not to
countenance such heretic magicians, he gave orders
that they should quit his dominions within four-
and-twenty hours. It was fortunate for them that
so little time was given them; for, had they re-
mained six hours longer, the Nuncio had received
orders to procure a perpetual dungeon, or the
stake, for them.
Not knowing well where to direct their steps,
THE ALCHYMISTS. 127
they resolved to return to Cracow, where they
had still a few friends ; but, by this time, the
funds they had drawn from Laski were almost
exhausted; and they were many days obliged to
go dinnerless and supperless. They had great
difficulty to keep their poverty a secret from
the world; but they managed to bear privation
without murmuring, from a conviction that if the
fact were known, it would militate very much
against their pretensions. Nobody would believe
that they were possessors of the philosopher's stone,
if it were once suspected that they did not know
how to procure bread for their subsistence. They
still gained a little by casting nativities, and kept
starvation at arm's length, till a new dupe, rich
enough for their purposes, dropped into their
toils, in the shape of a royal personage. Hav-
ing procured an introduction to Stephen, King of
Poland, they predicted to him, that the Emperor
Rudolph would shortly be assassinated, and that
the Germans would look to Poland for his suc-
cessor. As this prediction was not precise enough
to satisfy the King, they tried their crystal again ;
and a spirit appeared, who told them that the new
sovereign of Germany would be Stephen of Poland.
Stephen was credulous enough to believe them,
and was once present when Kelly held his mystic.
conversations with the shadows of his crystal. He
also appears to have furnished them with money to
carry on their experiments in alchymy: but he
128 THE ALCHYMISTS.
grew tired, at last, of their broken promises, and
their constant drains upon his pocket; and was on
the point of discarding them with disgrace, when
they met with another dupe, to whom they eagerly
transferred their services. This was Count Rosen-
berg, a nobleman of large estates, at Trebona, in
Bohemia. So comfortable did they find themselves
in the palace of this munificent patron, that they
remained nearly four years with him, faring sump-
tuously, and having an almost unlimited command
ofhis money. The Count was more ambitious than
avaricious : he had wealth enough, and did not
care for the philosopher's stone on account of the
gold, but of the length of days it would bring him.
They had their predictions, accordingly, all ready
framed to suit his character. They prophesied that
he should be chosen King of Poland; and pro-
mised, moreover, that he should live for five hun-
dred years to enjoy his dignity; provided always,
that he found them sufficient money to carry on
their experiments.
But now, while fortune smiled upon them; while
they revelled in the rewards of successful villany,
retributive justice came upon them in a shape they
had not anticipated. Jealousy and mistrust sprang
up between the two confederates, and led to such
violent and frequent quarrels, that Dee was in con-
stant fear of exposure. Kelly imagined himself a
much greater personage than Dee; measuring, most
likely, by the standard of impudent roguery; and
1\ I I
.
THE ALCHYMISTS. 129
was displeased that on all occasions, and from aJl
persons, Dee received the greater share of honour
and consideration. He often threatened to leave
Dee to shift for himself; and the latter, who bad
degenerated into the mere tool of his more daring
associate, was distressed beyond measure at the
prospect of his desertion. His mind was so deeply
imbued with superstition, that he believed the rhap-
sodies of Kelly to be, in a great measure, derived
from his intercourse with angels; and he knew not
where, in the whole world, to look for a man of
depth and wisdom enough to succeed him. As
their quarrels every day became more and more
frequent, Dee wrote letters to Queen Elizabeth, to
secure a favourable reception on his return to Eng-
land; whither he intended to proceed, if Kelly for-
sook him. He also sent her a round piece of silver,
which he pretended he had made of a portion of
brass cut out of a warming-pan. He afterwards
sent her the warming-pan also, that she might con-
vince herself that the piece of silver corresponded
exactly with the hole which was cut into the brass.
While thus preparing for the worst, his chief desire
was to remain in Bohemia with Count Rosenberg,
who treated him well,.and reposed much confidence
in him. Neither had Kelly ·any great objection to
remain; but a new passion had taken possession.
of his breast, and he was laying deep schemes to
gratify it. His own wife was ill-favoured and ill-
natured; Dee's was comely and agreeable : and he
VOL, Ill. K
130 THB ALCHYMISTS.
longed to make an exchange ofpartners, without ex-
citing the jealousy or shocking the morality ofDee.
This was a difficult matter; but, to a man like
Kelly, who waa as deficient in rectitude and right
feeling as he was full of impudence and ingenuity,
the difficulty was not insurmountable. He had
also deeply studied the character and the foible• of
Dee ; and he took his measures accordingly. The
next time they consulted the spirits, Kelly pretended
to be shocked at their language, and refwled to tell
Dee what they had said. Dee insisted, and was
informed that they were henceforth to have their
wives in common. Dee, a little startled, inquired
whether the spirits might not me.an that they were
to live in common harmony and good-will7 Kelly
_ tried again, with apparent reluctance, and said
the spirits insisted upon the literal interpretation.
The poor fanatic, Dee, resigned himself to their
will ; but it suited Kelly's purpose to appear coy a
little longer. He declared that the spirits must be
spirits, not of good, but ofevil ; and refused to con-
sult them any more. He thereupon took his de-
p6tture, saying that he would never return.
Dee, thus left to himself, was in sore trouble and
distress of mind. He knew not on whom to fix as
the successor to Kelly for consulting the spirits;
but at last chose his son Arthur, a boy of eight
years of age. He consecrated him to this service
with great ceremony, and impressed upon the child•s
mind the dignified and· awful nature of the dutiea
THE ALCRYIUJTS,. 181
be was called upon to perform ; but the poor boy
had neither the ~ation, the faith, nor the arti-
fice of Kelly. He looked iatently upon the crystal.
u he was told ; but could see nothing and bear
nothing. At last, when his eyes ached, be said he
could see a vague indistinct shadow ; but nothing
more. Dee was in despa,ir. The deception had
been carried on so long, that he was never so happy
as when he fancied he was holding eonverse with
superior beings; and he cursed the day that had
put estrangement between him and his dear friend
Kelly. This was exactly what Kelly had foreseen;
and, when he thought the Doctor had grieved suffi·
ciently for his absence, he returned unexpectedly,
and entered the room where the little Arthur was
in vain endeavouring to distinguish something in .
the crystal. Dee, in entering this circumstance in
his journal, asc:
tibes this sudden return to a 4
" mi-
raculous fortune," and a "divine fate;" and goea
on to zeeord that Kelly immediately saw the spirits,
which bad remained invisible to little Arthur. One
of these spirits reiterated the previous command,
that they should have their wives in common. KeiJy
bowed his head, and submitted ; and Dee, in all
humility, consented to the arr~gement.
This was the extreme depth of the wretched
man's degradation. In this manner they c~
tinued to live for thTee or four months, wbeJ,t,
new quarrels breaking out, they separated ouce
more. This time their separat\on was final. Kelly,
K2
lSi THE ALCUYMISTS.
taking the e/i.rir which he had found in Glaston-
bury Abbey, proceeded to Prague, forgetful of the
abrupt mode in which he had previously been ex-
pelled from that city. Almost immediately after
his arrival, he was seized by order of the Emperor
Rudolph, and thrown into prison. He was released
after some months' confinement, and continued for
five years to lead a vagabond life in Germany, tell-
ing fortunes at one place, and pretending to make
gold at another. He was a second time thrown
into prison, on a charge of heresy and sorcery ; and
he then resolved, if ever he obtained his liberty, to
return to England. He soon discovered that there
was no prospect of this, and that his imprisonment
was likely to be for life.' He twisted his bed-clothes
into a rope, one stormy nig~t in February 1595,
and let himself down from the window of his dun-
geon, situated at the top of a very high tower.
Being a corpulent man, the rope gave way, and he
was precipitated to the ground. He broke two of
his ribs, and both his legs ; and was otherwise so
much injured, that he expired a few days afterwards.
Dee, for a while, had more prosperous fortune.
The warming-pan he had sent to Queen Elizabeth
was not without effect. He was rewarded, soon
after Kelly had left him, with an invitation to re-
turn to England. His pride, which had been sorely
humbled, sprang up again to its pristine dimensions;
and he set out for Bohemia with a train of attend-
ants becoming an ambassador. How he procured
THE ALCllY.MISTS. 183
the money does not appear, unless from the libe~
rality of the rich Bohemian Rosenberg, or perhaps
from his plunder. He travelled with three coaches
for himself and family, and three waggons to carry
his baggage. Each coach had four horses, and the
whole train was protected by a guard of four and
twenty soldiers. This statement may be doubted;
but it is on the authority of Dee himself, who made
it on oath .before the commissioners appointed by
Elizabeth to inquire into his circumstances. On his
arrival in England he had an audience of the
Queen, who received him kindly as far as words
went, and gave orders that he should not be molest-
ed in his pursuits of chemistry and philosophy. A
man who boasted of the power to turn baser metals
into gold, could not, thought Elizabetl1, be in want
of money; and she, therefore, gave him no more
substantial marks of her approbation than her
coontenance and protection.
. Thrown thus unexpectedly upon his O\yn. re-
sources, Dee began in earnest the search for the
philosopher's stone. He worked incessantly among
his furnaces, retorts, and crucibles, and almost
poisoned himself with deleterious fumes. He also
consulted his miraculous crystal ; but the spirits
appeared not to him. He tried one Bartholomew
to supply the place of the invaluable Kelly; but he
being a man of some little probity, and of no imagi-
nation at all, the spirits would not hold any com-
munication with him. Dee then tried another pre-
184. THE .U.CHYMISTS.
tender to philosophy, of the name of Hickman;
but had no better fortune. The crystal had lost
ita power since the departure of its great high-
priest. From this quarter then Dee could get no.
infonnation on the stone or elixir of the alchymists,
and all his eft'orts to discover them by other means
were not only fruitless but expensive. He was soon
reduced to great distress, and wrote piteous letters
to the Queen, praying relief. He represented
that, ~fter he left England with Count Laski, the
mob had piHaged his house at Mo'rtlake, accusing
him of being a necromancer and a wizard ; and had
broken all his furniture, burned his library, consist-
ing of foul' thousand rare volumes, and destroyed
all the philosophical instruments and curiosities in
his museum. For this damage he claimed compen-
sation ; and furthermore stated, that, as be bad
come to England by the Queen's command, she
ought to pay the expenses of his journey. EliJ:a..
beth sent him small sums of money at various
times ; but, Dee still continuing his complaints, a
commission was appointed to inquire into his cir-
cumstances. He .finally obtained a small appoint..
moot as Chancellor of St. Paul's cathedral, which
he ~xchanged, in 1595, for the wardenship of the
college at Manchester. He remained in this
capacity till 160! or 1608, when, his strength and
intelJect beginning to fail him, he was compelled
to resign. He retired to hit old dwelling at Mort-
lake, in a state not far removed from actual want,
supporting himself as a common fortune-teller,
THB A.\.CHY.MlST$. 185
and being often obliged to sell or pawn hia books
to procure 4' dinner. James.I. was often applied to
on his behalf, but he refused to do anything for
him. It may be said to the discredit of this King,
that the only reward he would grant the indefatiga-
ble Stowe, in his days of old age and want, was the
royal permisJion to beg ; but no one will blame him
for neglecting such a quack as John Dee. He died
in 1608, in the eighty~first year of his age, an(i waa
buried at Mortlake.
TBE CosMOPOLlTE.
Many disputes have arisen as to the real name of
the alchymist who wrote aeveral works under the
above designation. The general opinion is that he
was a Scotsman, named Seton; and that by ~ fate
very common to alchymists, who boas~d too loudly
of their powers of transmutation, he ended his <4ys
miserably in a dungeon, into which he was thrown
by a German potentate until he made a million of
gold t~ pay his ransom. By some he has been con-
founded with Michael Sendivog, or Sendivogius, a
Pole, a professor of the same art, who made a great
noise in Europe at the commencement·of the seven-
teenth century. Lengle.t du Fresnoy, who is in ge.
neral well-informed with respect to the ~lchyiJli!itf,
inclinet to the belief that these personages w~re
dutinct; and gives the following particulars of the
Cotmopolite, extr)'cted from George M9rbofl; in
his ~~ Epiatola ad Langelottum," and oUler writers.
About the year 1600, one Jacob Haussen, a
1\
THE ALCHYMISTS.
Dutch pilot, was shipwrecked on the coast of Scot-
land. A gentleman, named Alexander Seton, putoft'
in a boat, and saved him from drowning, and after-
wards entertained him hospitably for many weeks
at his house on the shore. Haussen saw that he
was addicted to the pursuits of chemistry, but no
conversation on the subject passed between them at
the time. About a year and a half afterwards,
Haussen being then at home at Enkhuysen, in
HolJand, received a visit from his former host. He
endeavoured to repay the kindness that had been
shown him ; and so great a friendship arose be-
tween them, that Seton, on his departure, offered
to make him acquainted with the great secret of
the philosopher's stone. In his presence the Scots-
man transmuted a great quantity of base metal into
pure gold, and gave it him as a mark of his esteem.
Seton then took leave of his friend, and travelled
into Germany. At Dresden he made no secret of
his wonderful powers ; having, it is said, performed
transmutation successfully before a great .assem-
blage ofthe learned men of that city. The circum-
stance coming to the ears of the Duke or Elector
of Saxony, he gave orders for the arrest of the
alchymist. He caused him to be imprisoned in a
high tower, and set a guard of forty men to watch
that he did not escape, and that no strangers were
admitted to his presence. The unfortunate Seton
received several visits from the Elector, who used
every art of persuasion to make him divulge his
THE ALCHYMISTS. 137
secret. Seton obstinately refused either to com..
municate his secret, or to make any gold for the
tyrant; on which he was stretched upon ·the rack,
to see if the argument of torture would render him
more tractable. The result was still the same,-
neither hope of reward nor fear of anguish could
shake·him. For several months he remained in pri-
son, subjected alternately to a sedative and a violent
regimen, till his health- broke, and he wasted away
almost to a skeleton.
There happened at that time to be in Dresden a
learned Pole, named Michael Sendivogius, who had
wasted a good deal of his time and substance in
the unprofitable pursuits of alchymy. He was
touched with pity for the hard fate, and admiration
.for the intrepidity of Seton ; and determined, if
possible, to aid him in escaping from the clutch
of his oppressor. He requested the Elector's per-
mission to see the alchymist, and obtained it with
some difficulty. He found him in a state of great
wretchedness,-shut up from the light of day in
a noisome dungeon, and with no better couch or
fare than those allotted to the worst of criminals.
Seton listened eagerly to the proposal of escape,
and promised the generous Pole that he would
make him richer than an Eastern monarch if by
his means he were liberated. Sendivogius imme-
diately commenced operations. He sold some pro-
perty which he possessed near Cracow, and with
the proceeds led a merry life at Dresden. He gave
1\
138 THE ALCHYMISTS.
the most elegant suppers, to which htt regularly
invited the officers of the guard, and especially
those who did duty at the prison of the alchymiat.
He insinuated himself at laat into their confidence,
and obtained free ingress to his friend as often as
he pleased ; pretending that he waa using his ut-
most endeavours to conquer his obstinacy and
worm his secret out of him. When their project
\_Vas ripe, a day was fixed upon for the grand at.
tempt; and Sendivogius was reAdy with a po•t.
chariot to conYey him with all speed into Poland.
By drugging some wine which he presented to the
guards of the prison, he rendered them so drowsy
that be easily found means to scale a wall unolh
.aerved, with Seton, and eifect his escape. Seton's
wife was in the chariot awaiting him, having safely
in her possession a amall packet of a black powder.
which was, in fact, the philosopber~s stone, or in-
gredient for the transmutation of iron and copper
into gold. They all arrived in safety at Cracow ;
but the frame of Seton was so waated by torture
of body and starvation, to say nothing of the an..
guish of mind he had endured, that he did not long
survive. He died in Cracow in 1603 or 16041, Qnd.
was buried under the cathedral church of that city,
Such is the story related of the author of the va-
rious works which bear the name of the-Cosmopo-
lite. A list of them may be found in the thi_rd
volume of the u History of the Hermetic Phi,l~
sophy.''
THE ALCHYMISTS. 189
SENDIVOGIUS.
On the death of Seton, SendiYogius married his
widow, hoping to learn from her some of the
secrets of her deceased lord in the art of trans-
mutation. The oWlce of black powder stood him,
however, in better service; for the alchymists say
that, by its means, he converted great quantities
of quicksilver into the purest gold. It is also
said that he performed this experiment success-
fully before the Emperor Rudolph II, at Prague ;
and that the Emperor, to commemorate the cir-
cumstance, caused a marble tablet to be affixed
to the wan of the room in which it was performed,
bearing this inscription, " Faciat hoc quispiam
alius, quod fecit Sendivogiua Polonus." M. Des-
noyers, secretary to the Princess Mary of Gonzaga,
Queen of Poland, writing from Warsaw in 1651,
says that he saw this tablet, which existed at that
time, and was often visited by the curious.
The after-life of Sendivogius is related in a Latin
memoir of him by one Brodowski, his steward ; and
is inserted by Pierre Borel in his "Treasure of
Gaulish Antiquities." The Emperor Rudolph, ac-
cording to this authority, was so well pleased with
his success, that he made him one of his counsellors
of state, and invited him to fill a station in the
royal household and inhabit the palace. But Sen-
divogius loved his liberty, and refused to become
a courtier. He preferred to reside on his own
140 THE A.LCHYMISTS.
patrimonial estate of Gravarna, where, for many
years, be exercised a princely hospitality. His
philosophic powder, which, his steward says, was
red, and not black, he kept in a little box of gold;
and with one grain of it he could make five hun-
~red ducats, or a thousand rix-dollars. He gene-
rally made his projection upon quicksilver. When
be travelled, be gave this box to his steward, who
bung it round his neck by a gold chain next his
skin. But the greatest part of the powder he used.
to bide in a.secret place cut into the step of his
chariot. He thought that, if attacked at any time.
by robbers, they would not search such a place as
that. When be anticipated any danger, he .would
dress himself. in his valet's clothes, and, mounting
the coach-box, put the valet inside. He was in-
duced to take these precautions, because it was
no secret that be possessed the philosopher's stone ;
and many unprincipled adventurers were on the
watch for an opportunity to plunder him. A Ger-
man Prince, whose name Brodowski has not thought
fit to chronicle, served him a scurvy trick, which
ever afterwards put him on his guard. This prince
went on his knees to Sendivogius, and entreated
him in the most pressing terms to satisfy his cu-
riosity by converting some quicksilver into gold
before him. Sendivogius, wearied by his importu-
nity, consented, upon a promise of inviolable
secrecy. After his departure, the Prince called a
German alchymist, named Muhlenfels, who resided
THE ALCHYMISTS.
in his house, and told him all that had been"done.
Muhlenfels entreated that he might have a dozen
mounted horsemen at his command, that he might
instantly ride after the philosopher, and either rob
him of all his powder or force from him the secret
ofmaking it. The Prince desired nothing better ;
and Muhlenfels, being provided with twelve men
.well mounted and armed, pursued Sendivogius in
hot haste. He came up with him at a lonely inn
by the road-side, just as he was sitting down to
dinner. He at first endeavoured to persuade him
to divulge the secret; but, finding this of no avail,
be caused his accomplices to strip the unfortunate
Sendivogius and tie him naked to one of the pi11ars
of the house. He then took from him his golden
box, containing a small quantity of the powder;
a manuscript book on the philosopher's stone; a
golden medal with its chain, presented to him by
the Emperor Rudolph ; and a rich cap ornament-
ed with diamonds, of the value of one hundred
thousand rix-dollars. With this booty he decamp-
ed, leaving Sendivogius still naked and firmly
bound to the pillar. His servants had been treated
in a similar manner ; but the people of the inn
released them all as soon as the robbers were out
of sight.
Sendivogius proceeded to Prague, and -made his
complaint to the Emperor. An express was in-
stantly sent off to the Prince, with orders that he
should' deliver up Muhlenfels and all his plunder.
1\
THE ALCBYMISTS..
The Prince, fearful of the Emperor's WJ'ath, caused
three large gallows to be erected in his court-yard ;
on the highest of which he hanged Muhlenfels_
with another thief on each side of him. He tbUJ
propitiated the Emperor, and got rid of an ugly
witness again.
at himael£ He sent back, at the same
time, the bejewelled bat, the medal and chain, and
the treatise upon the philosopher's stone, which
bad been stolen from Sendivogius. As regarded
the powder, he said he bad not seen it, and knew
nothing about it.
This adventure made Sendivogius more prudent ;
he would no longer perform the process of trans-
mutation before any stranger~ however highly re.
commended. He pretended•.also, to be very poor;
and sometimes lay in bed for weeks together, .that
people might believe he was suffering from some
dangerous malady, and could not therefore by any
possibility be the owner of the philosopher's stone.
He would occasionally coin false money, and paaa
it off as gold ; preferring to be esteemed a cheat
rather than a successful alchymist.
Many other extraordinary tales are told of this
personage by his steward Brodowski, but they are
not worth repeating. Be died in 1686, aged up-
wards of eighty, and was buried in his own chapel
.at Gravar.na. Several works upon alcbymy have
been published under his name.
•
THE ALCHYMISTS.
THE RosiCRUCIANS.
It was during the . time of the last-mentioned
author that the sect of the Rosicrucians first began
to create a sensation in Europe. The influence
which they exercised upon opinion during their
brief career, and the permanent impression which
they have left upon European literature, claim for
them especial notice. Before their time, alchymy
was but a grovelling delusion ; and theirs is ·the
merit of having spiritualised and refined it. They
also enlarged its sphere, and supposed the pos·
session of the philosopher's stone to be, not only
the means of wealth, but of health and happiness ;
and the instrument by which man could command
the senices of superior beings, control the elements
to his ~ defy.the obstructions of time and space,
and acquire the most intimate knowledge of all the
secrets of the universe. Wild and visionary as
they were, they were not without their uses ; if it
were only for having purged the superstitions of
Europe ofthe dark and disgusting forms with which
the monks had peopled it, and substituted, in their
stead, a race of mild, graceful, and beneficent
beings.
They are said to have derived their name from
Christian Rosencreutz, or " Rose-cross,'' a German
philosopher, who travelled in the Holy Land to-
wards the close of the fourteenth century. While
1\ I
I
THE ALCHYMISTS.
dangerously ill at a place called Damcar, he was
visited by some learned Arabs, who claimed him as
their brother in science, and unfolded to him, by
in_spiration, all the secrets of his past life, both of
thought and of action. They restored him to health
by means of the philosopher's stone, and afterwards
instructed him in all their mysteries. He returned
to Europe in 1401, being then only twenty-three
years of age; and drew a chosen number of his
friends around him, whom he initiated into the
new science, and bound by solemn oaths to keep it
secret for a century. He is said to have lived
eighty-three years after this period, and to have
died in 1484.
Many have denied the existence of such a per-
sonage as Rosencreutz, and have fixed the origin of
this sect at a much later epoch. The first dawn-
ing of it, they say, is to be found in the theories of
Paracelsus, and the dreams of Dr. Dee, who, with-
out intending it, became the actual, though never
the recognised founders of the Rosicrucian philo-
sophy. It is now difficult, and indeed impossible,
to.determine whether Dee and Paracelsus obtained.
their ideas from the then obscure and unknown
Rosicrucians, or whether the Rosicrucians did but
follow and improve upon them. Certain it is, that
their existence was never suspected till the year
1605, when they began to excite attention in Ger-
many. No sooner were their doctrines promul-
gated, than all the visionaries, Paracelsists, and
THE ALCHYMJSTS. 145
alchymists, flocked around their standard, and
vaunted Rosencreutz as the new regenerator of the
human race. Michael Mayer, a celebrated phy-
sician of that day, and who had impaired his health
and wasted his fortune in searching for the philo-
sopher's stone, drew up a report of the tenets and
ordinances of the new fraternity, which was pub-
lished at Cologne, in the year 1615. They assert-
ed, in the first place, ct that the meditations oftheir
founders surpassed everything that had ever been
imagined since the creation of the world, without
even excepting the revelations of the Deity; that
they were destined to accomplish the general peac~
and regeneration of man before the end .of the
world arrived ; that they possessed all wisdom and
piety in a supreme degree; that they possessed all
the graces of nature, and. could distribute them
among the rest of mankind according to their plea-
sure; that they were subject to neither hunger, nor
thirst, nor disease, nor old age, nor to any other in-
convenience of nature ; that they knew by inspir-
ation, and at the first glance, every one who was
worthy to be admitted into their society ; that they
had the same knowledge then which they would
have possessed if they had lived from the beginning
of the world, and had been always acquiring it;
that they had a volume in which they could read
all that ever was or ever would be written in other
books till the end of time ; that··they could force
to, and retain in their service the most powerful
VOL. Ill. L
146 THE ALCHYMISTS.
spirits and demons; that, by the virtueoftheirsongs,
they could attract pearls and precious stones from
the depths of the sea or the bowels of the earth ;
that God had covered them with a thick cloud, by
means of }Vhich they could shelter themselves from
the malignity of their enemies, and that they could
thus render themselves invisible from all eyes ; that
the eight first brethren of the 11
Rose-cross" had
power to cure all maladies ; that, by means of the
fraternity, the triple diadem of the Pope would be
reduced into dust; that they only admitted two
sacraments, with the ceremonies of the primitive
Church, renewed by them ; that they recognised
the Fourth Monarchy and the Emperor of the
Romans as their chief and the chief of all Chris-
tians ; that they would provide him with more
gold, their treasures being inexhaustible, than the
King of Spain had ever drawn from the golden re-
gions of Eastern and Western Ind." This was their
confession of faith. Their rules of conduct were
six in number, and as follow:-
First. That, in their travels, they should gratu-
itously cure all diseases.
Secondly. That they should always dress in con-
formity to the fashion of the country in which they
resided.
Thirdly. That they should, once every year, meet
together in the place appointed by the fraternity,
or send in writing an available excuse.
Fourthly. That every brother, whenever he felt
1\
THE ALCHYMISTS. 147
inclined to die, should choose a person worthy to
succeed him.
Fifthly. That the words "Rose-cross'' sho.uld be
the marks by which they should recognise each
other.
Sixthly. That their fraternity should be kept
secret for six times twenty years.
They asserted that these laws had been found
inscribed in a goJden book in the tomb of Rosen-
creutz, and that the six times twenty years from his
death expired in 1604. They were consequently
called upon, from that time forth, to promulgate
their doctrine for the welfare of mankind.•
For eight years these enthusiasts made converts
• The following legend ofthe tomb of Rosencreutz, written by
Eustace Budgell, appea.ra in No. 879 of the Spectator:-" A cer-
tain person, having occasion to dig somewhat deep in the ground
where this philosopher lay interred, met with a small door, having
a wall on each side of it. Hie curiosity, and the hope of finding
some hidden treasure, soon prompted him to force open the door.
He was immediately surprised by a sudden blaze oflight, and dis-
covered a very fair vault. At the upper end ofit was a statue of
a man in armour, sitting by a table, and leaning on his left arm.
He held a truncheon in his right hand, and had a lamp burning be-
fore him. The man had no sooner set one foot within the vault,
than the statue, erecting itself from its leaning posture, stood bolt
upright ; and, upon the fellow's advancing another step, lifted up
the truncheon in his right hand. The man still ventured a third
step; when the statue, with a furious blow, broke the lamp into a
thousand pieces, and left his guest in sudden darkness. Upon the
report of this adventure, the country people came with lights to
the sepulchre, and discovered that the statue, which was made of
brass, was nothing more than a piece of clock-work ; that the floor
of the vault was all loose, and wtderlaid with several springs,
L2
1\ I
148 THE ALCBYMISTS.
in Germany; but they excited little or no attention
in other parts of Europe. At last they made their
appearance in Paris, and threw all the learned, all
the credulous, and all the lovers of the marvellous
into commotion. In the beginning of March 1628,
the good folks of that city, when they arose one
morning, were surprised to find all their walls
placarded with the following singular manifesto:-
" We, the deputies of the principal College of the
B1·ethren ofthe Ro.fe-cross, have token up our ahode,
visible and invisible, in tlds city, by the grace ofthe
lltfost High, towards whom are turned the hearts of
thejust. We show and teach without hooks or signs,
and speak all aorts cif languages i11 the countriea
where we dwell, to draw mankind, our fellows, f rom
error andfrom death."
For a long time this strange placard was the sole
topic of conversation in all public places. Some
few wondered; but the greater number only laugh-
ed at it. In the course of a few weeks two books
were published, which rai~ed the first alarm respect-
ing this mysterious society, whose dwelling-place
no one knew, and no members of which had ever
been seen. The first was called a history of " The
frightful Compacts entered into between the Devil
which, upon any man's entering, naturally produced that which
had happened.
" Rosicreuoius, say his disciples, made use ofthis method to show
the world that ·he had re-invented the ever-burning lamps ofthe
ancients, though he was resolved no one ahould reap any advan-
t.Qge from the discovery."
1\ I
THE ALCHYMISTS. 149
and the pretended ~Invisibles ;'with their damnable
Instructions, the deplorable Ruin of their Dis-
ciples, and their miserable End." The other was
ca11ed an " Examination of the new and unknown
Cabala of the Brethren of the Rose-cross, who
have lately inhabited the City of Paris; with the
History of their Manners, the Wonders worked by
them, and many other Particulars."
These books sold rapidly. Every one was anxi-
ous to know something of this dreadful and secret
brotherhood. The badauds ofParis were so alarmed
that .they daily expected to see the arch-enemy
walking in propria persona among them. It was
said in these volumes, that the Rosicrucian society
consisted of six-and-thirty persons in all, who had
renounced their baptism and hope of resurrection.
That it was not by means of good angels, as they
pretended, that they worked their prodigies ; but
that it was the devil who gave them power to trans-
port themselves from one end of the world to the
other with the rapidity of thought ; to speak all
languages; to have their purses always full of
money, however much they might spend ; to be in-
visible, and penetrate into the most secret places,
in spite of fastenings of bolts and bars; and to be
able to tell the past and future. These thirty-six
brethren were divided into bands or companies :-
six of them only had been sent on the mission to
Paris, six to Italy, six to Spain, six to Germany,
four to Sweden, and two into Switzerland; two
1\ (
/
150 THt: ALCHYMISTS.
into Flanders, two into Lorraine, and two into
Franche Comte. It was generally believed that
the missionaries to France resided somewhere in
the Marais du Temple. That quarter of Paris
soon acquired a bad name ; and people were afraid
to take houses in it, lest they should be turned out
by the six invisibles of the Rose-cross. It was be-
lieved by the populace, and by many others whose
education should have taught them better, that
persons of a mysterious aspect used to visit the
inns and hotels of Paris, and eat of the best meats
and drink of the best wines, and then suddenly
melt away into thin air when the landlord came
with the reckoning. That gentle maidens, who
went to bed alone, often awoke in the night and
found men in bed with them, of shape more beauti-
ful than the Grecian Apollo, who immediately be-
came invisible when an alarm was raised. It was
also said that many persons found large heaps of
pure gold in their houses, without knowing from
whence they came. All Paris was in alarm. No
man thought himself secure ofhis goods, no maiden
of her virginity, or wife of her chastity, while these
Rosicrucians were abroad. In the midst of the
commotion, a second placard was issued to the fol-
lowing effect :-
"Ifany one desires to see tile brethren oftile Rose-
crossfrom curiosity rmly, he wilt never communicate
with us. But if Ids will really induces him to in-
THE ALCHYMISTS. 151
scribe his name in the register of our brotherhood,
we, who can judge of tlte thoughts of att men, will
con'Dince him oftl1e truth ofour promises. For this
reason we do not publish to the world the place ofour
abode. Thought alone, in unison with the sincere will
ofthose who desire to know us, is sufficient to make us
known to them, and them to us."
Though the existence of such a society as that of
the Rose-cross was problematical, it was quite evi- •
dent that somebody or otl1er was concerned in the
promulgation of these placards, which were stuck
up on every waU in Paris. The police endeavoured
in vain to find out the offenders, and their want of
success only served to increase the perplexity of
the public. The church very soon took up the
question; and the Abbe Gaultier, a Jesuit, wrote a
book to prove that, by their enmity to the Pope,
they could be no other than disciples of Luther,
sent to promulgate his heresy. Their very name,
he added, proved that they were heretics; a cross
surmounted by a rose being the heraldic device of -
the arch-heretic Luther. One Garasse said they
were a confraternity ofdrunken impostors; and that
their name was derived from the garland of roses,
in the form of a cross, hung over the tables of
taverns in Germany as the emblem of secrecy, and
from whence was derived the common saying, when
one man communicated a secret to another, that it
was said " under the rose.'' Others intel'preted
{ 1\
152 THE ALCHYMISTS.
the letters F. R. C. to mean, not Brethren of the
Rose-cross,·but Fratres Roris Cocti, or Brothers of
Boiled Dew ; and explained this appellation by
alleging that they collected large quantities of
morning dew, and boiled it, in order to extract a
very valuable ingredient in the composition of the
philosopher's stone and the water of life.
The fraternity thus attacked defended themselves
as well as they were able. They denied that they
used magic of any kind, or that they consulted the
devil. They said they were all happy ; that they
had lived more than a century, and expected to live
many centuries more; and that the intimate know-
ledge which they possessed of all nature was com-
municated to them by God himself as a reward for
their piety and utter devotion to his service. Those
were in error who derived their name from a cross
of roses, or called them drunkards. To set the
world right on the first point, they reiterated that
they derived their name from Christian Rosencreutz,
their founder; and, to answer the latter charge,
they repeated that they knew not what thirst was,
and had higher pleasures than those of the palate.
They did not desire to meddle with the politics or
religion of any man or set of men, although they
could not help denying the supremacy of the Pope,
and looking upon him as a tyrant. Many slanders,
they said, had been repeated respecting them ; the
most unjust of which was, that they indulged in
carnal appetites, and, under the cloak of their in-
1\ I I
.
THE ALCBYMJSTS. 158
visibility, crept into the chambers of beautiful
maidens. They asserted, on the contrary, that the
first vow they took on entering the society was a
vow of chastity; and that any one among them who
transgressed in that particular would immediately
lose all the advantages he enjoyed, and be exposed
once more to hunger, woe, disease, and death, like
other men. So strongly did they feel on the sub-
ject of chastity, that they attributed .the fall of
Adam solely to his want of this virtue. Besides
defending themselves in this manner, they entered
into a further confession of their faith. They dis-
cal:ded for ever all the old tales of sorcery and
witchcraft, and communion with the devil. They
said there were no such horrid, unnatural, and dis-
gusting beings as the incubi and succubi, and the
innumerable grotesque imps that men had believed
in for so many ages. Man was not surrounded
with enemies like these, but with myriads of beau-
Hful and beneficent beings, all anxious to do him
service. The air was peopled with sylphs, the
water with undines or naiads, the bowels of the
earth with gnomes, and the fire with salamanders.
All these beings were the friends of man, and de-
sired nothing so much as that men should purge
themselves of all uncleanness, and thus be enabled
to see and converse with them. They possessed
great power, and were unrestrained by the barriers
of space or the obstructions of matter. But man
was in one particular their superior. He had an
154 THE ALCHYMISTS.
immortal soul, and they had not. They might,
however, become sharers in man's immortality, if
they could inspire one of that race with the passion
of love towards them. Hence it was the constant
endeavour of the female spirits to captivate the ad-
miration of men; and of the male gnomes, sylphs,
salamanders, and undines, to be beloved by a
woman. The object of this passion, in returning
their love, .imparted a portion of that celestial fire
the soul ; and from that time forth the beloved
became equal to the lover, and both, when their
allotted course was run, entered together into the
mansions offelicity. These spirits, they said, watch.:.
ed constantly over mankind by night and day.
Dreams, omens, and presentiments were all their
works, and the means by which they gave warning
of the approach of danger. But,. though so well
inclined to befriend man for their own sakes, the
want of a soul rendered them at times capricious
and revengeful : they took offence on slight causes,
and heaped injuries instead of benefits on the heads
of those who extinguished the light of reason that
was in them, by gluttony, debauchery, and other
appetites of the body.
The excitement produced in Paris by the
placards of the brotherhood, and the attacks of
the clergy, wore itself away after a few months.
The stories circulated about them became at last
too absurd even for that age of absurdity, and men
began to laugh once more at those invisible gentle-
1\
THE ALCHYMISTS. 155
men and their fantastic doctrines. Gabriel Naude
at that conjuncture brought out his "Avis a·la
France sur les Freres de Ia Rose-croix," in which
he very successfully exposed the folly of the new
sect. This work, though not well written, was well
timed. It quite extinguished the Rosicrucians of
France; and, after that year, little more was heard
of them. Swindlers, in different parts of the coun-
try, assumed the name at times to cloak their de-
predations ; and now and then one of them was
caught, and hanged for his too great ingenuity in
enticing pearls and precious stones from the pockets
of other people into his own, or for passing off
lumps of gilded brass for pure gold, made by the
agency of the philosopher's stone. With these ex-
ceptions, oblivion shrouded them.
The doctri.De was not confined to a sphere
so narrow as France alone ; it still flourished in
Germany, and drew many converts in England.
.The latter countries produced two great masters,
in the persons ofJacob Bohmen and Robert Fludd;
pretended philosophers, of whom it is difficult to
say which was the more absurd and extravagant.
It would appear that the sect was divided into
two classes,-the brothers Rosete C1·ucis, who de-
voted themselves to the wonders of this sublunary
sphere ; and the brothers Aurea Crucis, who were
wholly occupied in the contemplation of things
Divine. Fludd belonged to the first class, and
Bohmen to the second. Fludd may be called the
{ 1\ • I I
156 THE ALCHYMISTS,
father of the English Rosicrucians, and as such
merits a conspicuous niche in the temple of Folly.
He was born in the year 1574, at Milgate, in
Kent ; and was the son of Sir Thomas Fludd,
Treasurer of War to Queen Elizabeth. He was
originally intended for the army; but he was too
fond of study, and of a disposition too quiet and
retiring to shine in that sphere. His father
would not, therefore, press him to adopt a course
of life for which he was unsuited, and encouraged
him in the study of medicine, for which he early
manifested a partiality. At the age of twenty-five
he proceeded to the Continent ; and being fond
of the abstruse, the marvellous, and the incompre-
hensible, be became an ardent disciple of the school
of Paracelsus, whom he looked upon as the regene-
rator, not only of medicine, but of philosophy. He
remained six years in Italy, France, and Germany ;
storing his mind with fantastic notions, and seeking
the society of enthusiasts and visionaries. On his
return to England, in 1605, he received the de-
gree of Doctor of Medicine from the University
of Oxford, and began to practise as a physician
in London.
He soon made himself conspicuous. He Latin-
ized his name from Robert Fludd into Robertus
' aFluctibus, and began the promulgation of many
'strange doctrines. He avowed his belief in the
pbilosophe.r's stone, the water of life, and the uui-
versal alkahest; and maintained that there were
TllE ALCBYMISTS. 157
but two principles of all things,- which were,
condensation, the boreal or northern virtue; and
rarefaction, the southern or austral virtue. A num-
ber of demons, he said, ruled over the human frame,
whom he arranged in their places in a rhomboid.
Every disease had its peculiar demon who produced
it, which demon could only be combated by the
aid of the demon whose place was directly oppo-
site to his in the rhomboidal figure. Of his me-
dical notions we shall have further occasion to
speak in another part of this book, when we con-
sider him in his character as one of the first
founders of the magnetic delusion, and its off-
shoot, animal magnetism, which has created so
much sen.sation in our own day.
As if the doctrines already mentioned were not
wild enough, he joined the Rosicrucians as soon
as they began to make a sensation in Europe, and
succeeded in raising himself to high consideration
among them. The fraternity having been violently
attacked by several German authors, and among
others by Liba..vius, Fludd volunteeTed a reply, and
published, in 1616, his defence of the Rosicrucian
philosophy, under the title of the "Apologia, com-
pendiaria, Fraternitatem de Rosea-cruce, Suspicionis
et lnfamire maculis aspersam, abluens." This work
immediately procured him great renown upon the
Continent, and he was henceforth looked upon as
one of the high-priests of the sect. Of so much
importance was he considered, that Keppler and
{ I
158 THE ALCHYMISTS.
Gassendi thought it ,necessary to refute him; and
the latter wrote a complete examination of his doc-
trine. Mersenne also, the friend of Descartes, and
who had defended that philosopher when accused
of having joined the Rosicrucians, attacked Dr. a
Fluctibus, as he preferred to be called, and showed
the absurdity of the brothers of tbe Rose-cross
in general, and of Dr. a Fluctibus in particular.
Fluctibus wrote a long reply, in which he called
Mersenne an ignorant calumniator, and reiterated
that alchymy was a profitable science, and the
Rosicrucians worthy to be the regenerators of the
world. This book was published at Frankfort, and
was entitled " Summum Bonum; quod est Magire,
Cabalre, Alchimire, Fratrum Rosem-Crucis vero-
rum, et adversus Mersenium Calumniatorem." Be-
sides this, he wrote several other works upon al-
chymy, a second answer to Libavius upon the
Rosicrucians, and many medical works. He died
in London in 1637.
After his time there was some diminution of the
sect in England. They excited but little atten-
tion, and made no effort to bring themselves into
notice. Occasionally, some obscure and almost
incomprehensible work made its appearance, to
show the world that the folly was not extinguished.
Eugenius Philalethes, a noted alchymist, who has
veiled his real name under this assumed one, trans-
lated " The Fame and Confession of the Brethren
ofthe Rosie Cross," which was published in London
THE ALCHYMISTS. 159
in 1652. A few years afterwards, another enthu-
siast, named John Heydon, wrote two works on the
subject : the one entitled u The Wise Man's Crown,
or the Glory of the Rosie Cross;" and the other,
~~The Holy Guide, leading the way to unite Art and
Nature, with the Rosie Crosse uncovered." Neither
of these attracted much notice. A third book was
somewhat more successful: it was called "A New
Method ofRosicrucian Physic; by John Heydon, the
servant ofGod and the secretary of Nature." A few
extracts will show the ideas of the English Rosicru-
cians about this period. Its aut\~r was an attorney,
u practising (to use his own words) at Westminster
Hall all term times as long as he lived, and in
the vacations devoting himself to alchymical and
Rosicrucian meditation." In his preface, called by
him an Apologue for an Epilogue, he.enlightens the
public upon the true history and tenets of his sect.
Moses, Elias, and Ezekiel were, he says, the most
ancient masters of the Rosicrucian philosophy.
Those few then existing in England and the rest ''
of Europe, were as the eyes and ears of the great
King of the universe, seeing and hearing all things ;
seraphically illuminated; companions of the holy
company of unbodied souls and immortal angels;
turning themselves, Proteus-like, into any shape,
and having the power of working miracles. The
most pious and abstracted brethren could slack the
plague in cities, silence the violent winds and tem-
pests, calm the rage of the sea and rivers, walk
1\
160 THE ALCHYMISTS.
in the air, frustrate the malicious aspect of witches,
cure· all diseases, and turn all metals into gold.
He had known in his time two famous brethren
of the Rosie Cross, named Walfourd and Wil-
liams, who had worked miracles in his sight, and
taught him many excellent predictions of astro-
logy and earthquakes. u I desired one of these
to tell me," says he, u whether my complexion
were capable of the society of my good genius.
'When I see you again,' said he, (which was when
he pleased to come to me, for I knew not where to
go to him,) ~I ~ll tell you.' When I saw him
afterwards, be said, 'You should pray to God; for
a good and holy man can offer no greater or
more acceptable service to God than the oblation
of himself- his soul.' He said, also, that the
good genii were the benign eyes of God, running
to and fro in the world, and with love and pity
beholding the innocent endeavours of harmless and
single-hearted men, ever ready to do them good
and to help them."
Heydon held devoutly true that dogma of the
Rosicrucians which said that neither eating nor
drinking was necessary to men. He maintain-
ed that any one might exist in the same man-
ner as that singular people dwe1ling near the
source of the Ganges, of whom mention was
made in the travels of his namesake, Sir Christo-
pher Heydon, who had no mouths, and therefore
could not eat, but lived by the breath of their
nostrils; except when they took a far journey, and
1\
TUE ALCHYMISTS. 161
then they mended their diet with the smell of
flowers. He said that in really pure air " there
was a fine foreign fatness," with which it was
sprinkled by the sunbeams, and which was quite
sufficient for the nourishment of the generality of
mankind. Those who had enormous appetites he
had no objection to see take animal food, since
they could not do without it; but he obstinately
insisted that there was no necessity why they
should eat it. If they put a plaster of nice1y-
-eooked meat upon their epigastrium, it would be
sufficient for the wants of the most robust and
voracious! They would by that means let in no
diseases, as they did at the broad and common
gate, the mouth, as any one might see by example
of drink; for, all the while a man sat in water, he
was never athirst. He had known, he said, many
Rosicrucians, who, by applying wine in this man..
ner, had fasted for years together. In fact, quoth
Heydon, we may easily fast all our life, though it
be three hundred years, without any kind of meat,
and so cut offall danger of disease.
This "sage philosopher" further informed his
wondering contempoYaries that the chiefs of the
doctrine always carried about with them to their
place of meeting their symbol, called the R. C.
which was an ebony cross, flourished and decked
with roses of gold ; the cross typifying Christ's
·sufferings upon the Cross for our sins, and the
roses of gold the glory and beauty of his Resurrec-
VOL. IU. M
162 THE ALCHYMlSTS.
tion. This symbol was carried alternately to
·Mecca, Mount Calvary, Mount Sinai, Haran, and
to three other places, which must have been in
·mid-air, called Cascle, Apamia, and ChauJateau
Yirissa Caunuch, where the Rosicrucian brethren
met when they pleased, and made resolution of
aU their actions. They always took their pleasures
in one of these places, where they resolved all
questions of whatsoever had been done, was done.
~r should be done, in the world, from the begin-
·ning to the end thereof. " And these," he con..
eludes, "are the men called Rosicrucians!"
Towards the end of the seventeenth century,
more rational ideas took possession of the sec.t,
which still continued to boast of a few members.
They appear to have considered that contentment
was the true philosopher's stone, and to have aban-
doned the insane search for a mere phantom of
the imagination. Addison, in "The Spectator,"•
gives an acc'?unt of his conversation with a Rosi-
crucian ; from which it may be inferred that the
sect had grown wiser in their deeds, though in
,' their talk they were as foolish as ever. " I was
once,'' says be, 11
engaged in discourse with a Rosi-
crucian about the great secret. He talked of the
secret as of a spirit which lived within an emerald,
and converted everything that was near it to the
highest perfection that it was capable of. ' It
gives a lustre,' says he, ~to the sun, and water to
• No. 514. Friday, July soth, 1714.
THE ALCHYMISTS, 16S
the diamond. It inad\at~s every meta.J, and c.n~
riches lef\d with a.ll the properties of gold. h
heightens smoke into flame, flame in~o light. and.
light into glory.' He further added 'that a single
ray of it dissipates pain, and care, and melan~holy
from the person c:m whom it falls. In short,' says,
he, 'its presence naturf\lly changes every pl~ce
into a kind of heayen.' Aft~r he had gone on for
&orne time in this ~nintelligibJe cant, I foqnd that
he jqmbled natural ~nd. ~oral ideas together into
the same discourse, and that his great s~cr~t was
nothing else b.'!lt content.''
JAcoB BoHMEN.
It is now time to speak of Jacob Bohmen, who
thought he could discover the secret of the trans-
mutation of metal~ in the Bible, and who invented
a strange heterogeneous doctrine of mingled al-
chymy and religion, and founded upon it the sect
of the Aurea-crucians. He was born at Gorlitz,
in Upper Lusatia, in 1575; and followed, till his
thirtieth year, the occupation of a shoemaker. In
this obscu~ity he remained, with the character of
a visionary and a man of unsettle4 mind, until the
promulgation of the Rosicrucian philosophy in his
part of Gerptany, toward the year 1607 or 1608.
From that ~ime he began to neglect his leather,
and bqried his brain under the rubbish of meta-
physics. The works of Paracelsus fell into his
kands ; aqd these, with the r~venes of the llpsi..
)f 2
164t TUE ALCHYMISTS.
crucians, so completely engrossed his attention
that be abandoned his trade altogether, sinking,
at the same time, from a state of comparative in-
dependence into poverty and destitution. But be
was nothing daunted by the miseries and priva.-
tions of the fiesh ; his mind was fixed upon the
beings of another sphere, and in thought he was
already the new apostle of the human race. In
the year 1612, after a meditation of four years,
he published his first work, entitled 11
Aurora; or,
The Rising of the Sun;" embodying the ridiculous
notions of Paracelsus, and worse confounding the
confusion of that writer. The philosopher's stone
might, he contended, be discovered by a diligent
search of the Old and New Testaments, and more
especially of the Apocalypse, which alone con-
tained all the secrets of alchymy. He contended
that the Divine Grace operated by the same rules•.
and followed the same methods, that the Divine
Providence observed in the natural world; and that
the minds of men were purged from their vices and
corruptions in the very same manner that metals
were purified from their dross, namely, by fire.
Besides the sylphs, gnomes, undines, and sala-
manders, he acknowledged various ranks and orders
of demons. He pretended to invisibility and abso-
lute cha$tity. He also said that, if it pleased him,
he could abstain for years from meat and drink,
and aH the necessities of the body. It ia need-
less, however, to pursue his follies any further.
THE ALCHYMISTS. 165
He was reprimanded for writing this work by the
magistrates of Gorlitz. and commanded to leave
the pen alone and stick to his wax, that his fa-
mily might not become chargeable to the parish~
He neglected this good advice, and continued his
studies ; burning minerals and purifying metals one
day, and mystifying the Word of God on the next.
He afterwards wrote three other works, as sublime.
ly ridiculous as the first. The one was entitled
" Metallurgia," and has the slight merit of being
the least obscure of his compositions. Another
was called u The Temporal Mirror of Eternity ;.,
and the last his "Theosophy revealed," full of
allegories and metaphors,
" All strange and geason,
Devoid of sense and ordinary reason."
Bohmen died in 1624, leaving behind him a
considerable number of admiring disciples. Many
of them became, during the seventeenth century,
as distinguished for absurdity as their master ;
amongst whom may be mentioned GifFtheil, Wen-
denhagen, John Jacob Zimmermann, and Abraham
Frankenberg. Their heresy rendered them ob-
noxious to the Church of Rome; and many of
them suffered long imprisonment and torture 'for
their faith. One, named Kuhlmann, was burned
alive at Moscow, in 1684, on a charge of sorcery.
Bohmen's works were translated into English, and
publisl;led, many years afterwards by an enthusiast,
named William Law.
1\ I
166 THE ALCHYMISI'S.
M·oRMius.
Peter Mormiu-s, a notorious alchymist, and con-
temporary of Bobmen, endeavoured, in 16SO, to
introduce the Rosicrucian philosophy into Holland.
He applied to the States-General to grant him a
public audience, that he might ·explain the tenets
of the sect, and disclose a plan for rendering Hol-
land the happiest and richest country on the earth,
·by means of the philosopher's stone and the servi$!e
·of the elementary spirits. The States-General
·maely resolved to have nothing to d·o with him.
He thereupon detenniped to shame them by print-
ing his book, which he did at· Le}'den the same
year. It was entitled ., The Book of the most
Hidden Secrets of Nature:' and was divided into
three ·parts ; the first tr~ating of " perpetual mo-
tion," the second of the u transmutation of metals,"
and the ·third of the ''"universal medicine.'' He
:also published some German w-Orks upon the Rosi-
.erucian philosophy, at Frankfort~ in 1617.
Poetry and Romance are deeply indebted.to the
.Rosicrucians for many a graceful creation. The
·literature of England, France, and Germany con-
tains hundreds of sweet fictions, whose machinery
has been borrowed from their day-dreams. The
."delicate Ariel" of Shak8peate stands pre-eminent
·among the number. From the same source Pope
.drew the airy tenants of Belinda's dressing-room,
m his charming u Rape of the Lock;" and La
1\ I I
.
THE ALCHYMISTS• . 167
Motte Fouque, the beautiful and capriciqus water-
nymph, Undine,·around whom he has thrown more
grace and loveliness, and for whose imaginary
woes he has excited more sympathy, than ever
were bestowed on ·a supernatural being. Sir
Walter Scott also endowed the White Lady of
Avenel with many of the attributes of the undines,
0r water-sprites. German romance and lyrical
poetry teem with allusions to sylphs, gnomes, un-
dines, and salamanders ; and the French have not
been behind in substituting them, in works of fic-
tion, for the more cumbrous mythology of Greece
and Rome. The sylphs, more especially, have been
ihe favourites of the ba,rds, and have become so
familiar to the popular mind as to be, in a manner,
confounded with that other race ofideal beings, the
fairies, who can boast of an antiquity much more
venerable in the annals of superstition. Ha,·ing
these obligations to the Rosicrucians, no lover of
poetry can wish, however absurd they were, that
such a sect of philosophers had never existed.
Boaar.
Just at the time that Michael Mayer was mak..
ing known to the world the existence of such a.
body as the Rosicrucians, there was born in Italy
a man who was afterwards destined to become
the most conspicuous member of the fraternity.
The . alchymic mania never called forth the !nge..
168 THE ALCHYMISTS.
nuity of a· more consummate or more successful
impostor than Joseph Francis Borri. He was born
in 1616 according to some authorities, and in 1627
according to others, at Milan; where his father,
the Signor Branda Borri, practised as a physician.
At the age of sixteen, Joseph was sent to finish his
education at the Jesuits' College in Rome, where
he distinguished himself by his extraordinary me.
mory. He learned everything to which he applied
himself with the utmost ease. In the most volu.
minous works no fact was too minute for his re-
tention, and no study was so abstruse but that he
could master it; but any advantages he might have
derived from this facility, were neutralized by his
ungovernable passions and his love ofturmoil and
debauchery. He was involved in continual diffi-
culty, as well with the heads of the college as with
the police of Rome, and acquired so bad a charac-
ter that years could not remove it. By the aid of
his friends he established himself as a physician in
Rome, and also obtained some situation in the
Pope's household. In one of his fits of studious-
ness be grew enamoured of alchymy, and deter-
mined to devote his energies to the discovery of
the philosopher's stone. Of unfortunate propen-
sities he had quite sufficient, besides this, to bring
him to poverty. His pleasures were as expensive
as his studies, and both were of a nature to destroy
his health and ruin his fair fame. At the age of
thirty-seven he found that be could not live by the
THE ALCUYMISTS. 169
practice Qf medicine, and began to look about for
some other employment. He became, in 1663,
private secretary to the Marquis di Mirogli, the
minister of the Archduke of Innspruck at the
court of Rome. He continued in this capacity for
two years; leading, however, the same abandoned
life as heretofore, frequenting the society of game-
sters, debauchees, and loose women, involving him-
selfin disgraceful street quarrels, and alienating the
patrons who were desirous to befriend him.
All at once a sudden change was observed in his
conduct. The abandoned rake put on the outward
sedateness of a philosopher ; the scoffing sinner
proclaimed that he bad forsaken his evil ways, and
would live thenceforth a model of virtue. To his
friends this reformation was as pleasing as it was
unexpected ; and Borri gave obscure hints that it
had been brought about by some miraculous mani.
festation of a superior power. He pretended that
he held converse with beneficent spirits;· that the
secrets of God and nature· were revealed to him ;
and that he had obtained possession of the phi-
losopher's stone. Like his predecessor, Jacob
Bohmen, he mixed up religious questions with his
philosophical jargon, and took. measures for de..
claring himself the founder of a new sect. This,
at Rome itself, and in the very palace of the Pope,
was a hazardous proceeding; and Borrijust awoke
to a sense of it in time to save himself from the
dungeons of the Castle of St. Angelo. He fled to
170 THE ALCHYMI~.
Innspriick, where he remained about a ye8J', and
then returned to his native city of Milan.
The reputation of his great sanctity had gone
before ~im; and he found many persons ready to
attach themselves to his fortunes. All who were
desirous of entering into the new communion took
an oath of poverty, and relinquished their pos-
sessions for the general good of the fraternity.
Borri told them that he had received from the
archangel Michael a heavenly sword, upon the hilt
of which were engraven the names of the seven
celestial Intelligences. u Whoever shall refuse,"
said he, "to enter into my new sheepfold, shall be
destroyed by the papal armies, of whom God has
predestined me to be the chief. To those who fol-
low me, all joy sball be granted. I shall soon bring
my chemical studies to a happy conclusion by the
discovery of the philosopher's stone, and by this
means we shall all have as much gold as we desire.
I am assured of the aid of the angelic hosts, and
more especially of the archangel Michael's. When
r began to walk in the way of the spirit, I had
a vision.of the night, and was assured by an angelic
voice that I should become a prophet. In sign of
it I saw a palm-tree, surrounded with all the glory
of Paradise. The angels come to me whenever I
call, and reveal to me all the secrets of the uni-
verse. The sylphs and elementary spirits obey
me, aBd fly to the uttermost ends of the world to
serve me, and those whom 1 delight to honour."
1\ I
THE ALCUYMISTS. 171
By force of continually repeating such stories as
these, Borri soon found himself at the head of a
very considerable number of adherents. As he
figures in these pages as an alchymist, and not as a
religious sectarian, it will be unnecessary to repeat
the doctrines which he taught-with regard to some
of the dogmas of the Church of Rome, and which
exposed him to the fierce resentment of the papal
authority. They ·were to the full as ridiculous as
his philosophical pretensions. As the number of
his followers increased, he appears to have cherished
the idea ofbecoming one day a new Mahomet, and
of founding, in his native city of Milan, a monarchy
and religion of which he should be the king and
the prophet. He had taken measures, in the year
1658, for seizing the guards at all the gates of that
city, and formally declaring himself the monarch of
the Milanese. Just as he thought the plan ripe for
execution, it was discovered. Twenty of his fol-
lowers were arrested, and he himself managed, with
the utmost.difficulty, to escape to the neutral terri·
tory of Switzerland, where the papal displeasure
could not reach him.
The trial of his followers commenced forthwith,
and the whole of them ·were sentenced to various
terms of impriS:Onment. Borri's trial proceeded in
his absence, and lasted for upwards of two yean.
He was condemned to death as a heretic and
sorcerer in 1661, and was burned in effigy in. Rome
by the common hangman.
1\
172 THE ALCHY.MISTS;
Borri, in the mean time, lived quietly in Switzer-
land, indulging himself in railing at the Inquisition
and its proceedings. He afterwards went to Stras-
bourg, intending to fix his residence in that town.
He was received with great cordiality, as a man
persecuted for his religious opinions, and withal
a great alchymist. He found that sphere too nar-
row for his aspiring genius, and retired in the same
year to the more wealthy city of Amsterdam. He
there hired a magnificent house, established an
equipage which eclipsed in brilliancy those of the
richest merchants, and assumed the title of Ex-
cellency. Where he got the money to live in this
expensive style was long a secret: the adepts in
alchymy easily explained it, after their fashion.
Sensible people \'i'ere of opinion that be had come
by it in a less wonderful manner ; for it was re-
membered that, among his unfortunate disciples in
Milan, there were many rich men, who, in con-
formity with one of the fundamental rules of the
sect, had given up all their earthly wealth into the
hands of their founder. In whatever manner the
money was obtained, Borri spent it in Holland with
an unsparing hand, and was looked up to by the
people with no little respect and veneration. He
performed several able cures, and increased his re-
putation so much that he was vaunted as a prodigy.
He continued diligently the operations of alchymy,
and was i~ daily expectation that he should succeed
in turning the inftrior metals into gold. This hope
THE ALCHYMJSTS. 173
never abandoned him, even in the worst extremity
of his fortunes; and in his prosperity it led him
into the most foolish expenses : but he could not
long continue to live so magnificently upon the
funds he had brought from Italy; and the philo-
sopher's stone, though it promised all for the wants
of the morrow, never brought anything for the
necessities of to•day. He was obliged in a few
_ months to retrench, by giving up his large bouse,
his gilded coach, and valuable blood-horses, his
liveried domestics, and his luxurious entertainments.
With this diminution of splendour came a diminu-
tion of renown. His cures did not appear so mi..
taculous, when he went out on foot to perform them,
as they had seemed when H his Excellency, had
driven to a poor man's door in his carriage with six
horses. He sank from a prodigy int() an ordinary
man. His great friends showed him the cold shoul..
der, and his humble flattere.
rs carried their incense
to some other shrine. Borri now thought it high
time to change his quarters. With this view he
borrowed money wherever he could get it, and suc-
ceeded in obtaining two hundred thousand florins
from a merchant, named De Meer, to aid, as he
said, in discovering the water of life. He also
obtained six diamonds, of great value, on pretence
that he could remove the tlaws from them without
diminishing their weight. With this booty he stole
away secretly by night, and proceeded to Ham-
burgh.
\ 1\
174 THE ALCHYMISTS•
._On his arrival in that city, he found the cele-
brated Christina, the ex-Queen of Sweden. He
procured an introduction to her, and requested her
patronage in his endeavour to di,cover the phi-
losopher's stone. She gave him some encourage-
ment; but Borri, fearing that the merchants of
Amsterdam, who had connexions in Hamburgh,
might expose his delinquencies if he remained 'in
the latter city, passed over to Copenhagen, and
sought the protection of FrE:deri~ Ill, the King o(
Denmark.
This Prince was a firm believer in the transmu..
tation of metals. Being in want of money, he
readily listened to the plans of an adventurer who
bad both eloquence and ability to recommend him,
He provided Borri with the mea~s to make experi~
ments, and took a great interest in the progress pf
his operations. He expected every month to pos.
sess riches that would bQy Peru ; and, when be
was disappointed, accepted patiently the excuses of
Born who, upon every failure, was always ready
with some plausible explanatioQ, He became, in
time, much attached to hi~ ; aJld defended hi~
from the jealous attacks of his courtiers, a~d ~h~
indignation of those who were grieved to see their
monarch the easy dupe of a charlatan. Borri en-
deavoured, by every means in his power, to fi~<l
aliment for this good opinion. His knowledge of
medicine was useful to him in this respect, awJ
often stood between him and disgrace. He lived
THE ALCHY.MISTS, 176
six yeara in this manner at the court of Frederic ;
but that monarch dying in 1670, he was left with-
out a protector.
As he had made more enemies than friends in
Copenhagen, and had nothing to hope from the
.succeeding sovereign, he sought . an asylum in
another country. He went first to Saxony; but
met so little encouragement, and encountered so
.much danger ~rom the emissaries of the Inquisi.
tion, that he did not remain there many months.
Anticipating nothing but persecution in every
country that acknowledged the spiritual autho-
rity of the Pope, be appears to have taken th13
.resolution to dwell in Turkey, and turn Mussul.
JDan. On his arrival at the Hungarian·frontier, on
his way to Constantinople, be was arrested on sus-
picion of being concerned in the conspiracy of the
Counts Nadasdi and Frangipani. which had just
been discovered. In vain he protested his inno-
cence, and divulged his real name and profession.
He was detained in prison, and a letter despatched
to the .Emperor Leopold to know what should be
done with him. The star of his fortunes was on
the decline. The letter reached Leopold at an un-
lucky moment. The Pope•s Nuncio was closeted
with his Majesty; and he no sooner heard the
name of Joseph Francis Borri, than be demanded
him as a prisoner of the Holy See. The request
was complied with ; and Borri, closely manacled,
was s~nt under an escort ofsoidiers to the prison of
176 THE ALCBYMISTS.
the Inquisition at Rome. He was too much of att
impostor to be deeply tinged with fanaticism, and
was not unwilling to make a public recantation of
his heresies if he could thereby save his life. When
the proposition was made to him, he accepted it
with eagerness. His punishment was to be com-
muted into the hardly Jess severe one of perpetual
imprisonment ; but he was too happy to escape
the clutch of the executioner at any price, and he
made the amende honorable in face of the assembled
multitudes of Rome on the 27th of October 167~.
-
He was then transferred to the prisons of the Castle
of St. Angelo, where he remained till his death,
twenty-three years afterwards. It is said that, to-
wards the close of his life, considerable indulgence
was granted him; that he was allowed to have
a laboratory, and to cheer the solitude of his
dungeon by searching for the philosopher's stone.
Queen Christina, during her residence at Rome,
frequently visited the old man, to converse with
him upon chemistry and the doctrines of the Rosi-
crucians. She even obtained permission that he
should leave his prison occasionally for a day or
two, and reside in her palace, she being responsible
for his return to captivity. She encouraged him to
search for the great secret of the alchymists, and
provided him with money for the purpose. It may
well be supposed that Borri benefited most by this
acquaintance, and that Christina got nothing but
experience. It is not sure that she gained even
THE ALCHYMISTS. 177
that; for, until her dying day, she was convinced of
the possibility of finding the philosopher's stone,
and ready to assist any adventurer either zealous or
impudent enough to pretend to it.
Mter Borri had been about eleven years in con-
finement, a small volume was published at Cologne,
entitled " The Key of the Cabinet of the Chevalier
Joseph Francis Borri; in which are contained many
curious Letters upon Chemistry and other Sciences,
written by him ; together with a Memoir of his
Life." This book contained a complete exposition
of the Rosicrucian philosophy, and afforded mate-
rials to the Abbe de Villars for his interesting
u Count de Gabalis," which excited so much atten-
tion at the close of the seventeenth century.
. Borri lingered in the prison of St. Angelo till
1695,.when he died in his eightieth year. Besides
" The Key of the Cabinet," written originally in
Copenhagen, in 1666, for the edification of King
Frederic III, he published a work upon alchymy
and the secret sciences, under the title of " The
Mission of Romulus to the Romans."
INFERIOR ALCHYMISTS OF THE SEVENTEENTH CEN'fURY.
Besides the pretenders to the philosopher's stone
whose lives have been already narrated, this and ,
the preceding century produced a great number of
writers, who inundated literature with their books
upon the subject. In fact, most of the learned
men of that age bad some faith in it. Van Hel~
VOL. Ill. N
1\
178 THE ALCHYMISTS.
mont, Borrichius, Kirchen, Boerhaave, and a score
of others, though not professed alchymists, were
fond of the science, andcountenanced its professors.
Helvetius, the grandfather of the celebrated philo-
sopher of th·e same name, asserts that he saw an
inferior metal turned into gold by a stranger, at
the Hague, in 1666. He says that, sitting one day
in his study, a man, who was dressed as a respect-
able burgher of North Holland, and very modest
and simple in his appearance, called upon him, with
the intention of dispelling his doubts relative to
the philosopher's stone. He asked Helvetius if he
thought he should know that rare gem if he saw
it. To which Helvetius replied, that be certainly
should not. The burgher immediately drew from
his pocket a small ivory box, containing three
pieces of metal, of the colour of brimstone, and
extremely heavy; and assured Helvetius, that of
•. them he could make as much as twenty tons of
gold. Helvetius informs us, that he examined
. them very attentively ; and seeing that they were
very brittle, he took the opportunity to scrape off
a very small portion with his thumb-nail. He then
returned them to the stranger, with an entreaty
that he would perform the process of transmutation
before him. The stranger replied, that he was not
allowed to do so, and went away. After his de-
parture, Helvetius procured a crucible and a poT-
tion of lead, into which,.when in a state of..fusion,
he threw the stolen grain from the philosopher's
THE ALCHYMISTS. 179
stone. He was disappointed to find that the grain
evaporated altogether, leaving the leadin its original
state.
Some weeks afterwards, when he had almost for..
gotten the subject, he received another visit from
the stranger. He again entreated him to explain
the processes by which he pretended to transmute
lead. The stranger at last consented, and informed
him, that one grain was sufficient; but that it was
necessary to envelope it in a ball of wax before
throwing it on the molten metal; otherwise its ex-
treme volatility would cause it to go offin vapour.
They tried the experiment, and succeeded to their
heart's content. Helvetius repeated the experiment
alone, and converted six ounces of lead into very
pure gold.
The fame ofthis event spread all over the Hague,
and all the notable persons of the town flocked to
the study of Helvetius to convince themselves of the.
fact. Helvetius performed the experiment again,
in the presence of the Prince of Orange, and seve-
raLtimes afterwards, until he exhausted the whole
of the powder. be had received from the stranger,
from whom, it is necessary to state, he never re-
ceived another visit; nor did he ever discover his
name or condition. In the following year Hel-
vetius published his u Golden Calf," • in which he
detailed the above circumstances.
* « Vitulus Aureus quem Mundus adorat et orat, in quo trac-
tatur de na'Ul'lll miraculo .tranemutandi met&lla."- Hap, 1667.
N2
( \ ~ I
180 THE ALCUYMISTS.
· About the same time. the celebrated Father
Kircher published his " Subterranean World,tt in
which he called the alchymists a congregation of
knaves and impostors, and their science a delusion.
He admitted that he bad himself been a diligent
labourer in the field, and had only come to this
conclusion after mature consideration and repeated
fruitless experiments. All the alchymists were in
arms immediately, to refute this formidable anta.
gonist. One Solomon de Blauenstein was the first
to grapple with him, and attempted to convict him
of wilful misrepresentation, by recalling to his me-
mory the transmutations by Sendivogius, before the
Emperor Frederic III. and the Elector ofMayence;
oil performed within a recent period. Zwelfer and
Glauber also entered into the dispute, and attri-
.buted the enmity of Father Kircher to spite and
jealousy against adepts who had been more sue~
cessful than himself.
It was also pretended that Gustavus Adolphus
transmuted a quantity of quicksilver into pure gold.
The learned Borrichius relates, that he saw coins
which had been struck of this gold ; and Lenglet
du Fresnoy deposes to the same circumstance. In
the Travels of Monconis the story is told in the fol-
lo.wing manner :-u A merchant of Lubeck, who
carried on but little trade, but who knew how to
change lead into very good gold, gave the King of
Sweden a lingot which he had made, weighing, at
least, one hundred pounds. The King immediately
THE ALCHYMISTS. 181
caused it to be coined into ducats; and because he
knew positively that its origin was such as had.
been stated to him, he had his own arms graven
upon the one side, and emblematical figures of
Mercury and Venus on the other. u 1,, continued
.Monconis, "have one of these ducats in my pos-
session; and was credibly informed, that, after the
death of the Lubeck merchant, who bad never ap-
peared very rich, a sum of no less than one million
seven hundred thousand crowns was found in his
coffers:'•
Such stories as these, confidently related by men
high in station, tended to keep up the infatuation
of the alcbymists in every country of Europe. It
is astonishing to see the number of works which
were written upon the subject during the seven-
teenth century alone, and the number ofclever men
who sacrificed themselves to the delusion. Gabriel
de Castaigne, a monk of the order of St. Francis,
attracted so much notice in the reign ofLouis XIII,
that that monarch secured him in his household,
and made him his Grand Almoner. He pretended
to find the elixir of life ; and Louis expected, by
his means, to have enjoyed the crown for a cen-
tury. Van Helmont also pretended to have once
performed with success the process of transmuting
quicksilver; and was, in consequence, invited by the
Emperor Rudolph II. to fix his residence at the
court of Vienna. Glauber, the inventor of the salts
• Voyages de Monconis, tome ii. p. 379.
1\ '
I8i THE ALCHYMISTS.
which still bear his name, and who practised ·as
a physician at Amsterdam about the .middle of the
seventeenth century, established a public school in
that city for the study of alchymy, and gave lec-
tures himself upon the science. John Joachim
Becher, of Spire, acquired great reputation at the
same period; and was convinced that much gold
might be made out of fiint stones by a peculiar
process, and the aid of that grand and incompre-
hensible substance, the philosopher's st1>ne.· He
made a proposition to the Emperor Leopold of
Austria, to aid him in these experiments; but the
hope of success was too remote, and the present
expense too great to tempt that monarch; a~d
he therefore gave Becher much of his praise, but
none of his money. Becher afterwards tried the
States-General of Holland, with no,better success.
With regard to the innumerable tricks by which
impostors persuaded the world that they had suc-
~eeded in making gold, and of which so many
stories were current about this period, a very satis-
factory report was read by M. Geoffroy, the elder,
at the sitting of the Royal Academy of Sciences, at
Paris, on the 15th of April, 1722. As it relates
principally to the alchymic cheats of the sixteenth
and seventeenth centuries, the following abridgment
· of it may not be out of place in this portion of our
history :-The instances ofsuccessful transmutation
were so numerous, and apparently so well authenti-
cated, that nothing short of so able an exposure as
THE ALCHYMISTS. 188
that of M. Geoffroy could disabuse the public mind.
The trick to which they oftenest had recourse, was
to use a double-bottomed crucible, the under sur-
face being of iron or copper, and the upper one of
wax,. painted to resemble the same metal. Between
the two they placed ..as much gold or silver dust as
was necessary for their purpose. They then put
in their lead, quicksilver, or other ingredients,
and placed their pot upon the fire. Of course,
when the experiment was concluded, they never
failed to find a lump of gold at the bottom. The
same result was produced in many other ways.
Some o_f them used a hollow w~nd, filled with gold
or silver dust, and stopped at the ends with wax or
butter. With this they stirred the boiling metal in
their crucibles, taking care to accompany the ope-
ration with many ceremonies, to divert attention
from the real purpose of the manreu~re. They also
drilled holes in lumps of lead, into which they
poured molten gold, and carefully closed the aper-
ture with the original metal. Sometimes they
washed a piece of gold with quicksilver. When in
this state they found no difficulty in palming it ofF
upon the :uninitiated as an inferior metal, and very
easily transmuted it into fine sonorous gold again,
with the aid of a little aquafortis.
Others imposed by means of nails, half iron and
~alf gold or silver. They pretended that ·they
really transmuted the precious half from iron, by
dipping it in a strong alcohol. M. Geoffroy pro-
184 THE ALCHYMlSTS.
duced several of these nails to the Academy of
Sciences, and showed how nicely the two parts were
soldered together. The golden or silver half was
painted black to .resemble iron, and the colour im-
mediately disappeared when the nail was dipped
into aquafortis. A nail of this description was, for
a long time, in the cabinet of the Grand Duke of
Tuscany. Such also, saidM.Geoffroy, was the knife
presented by a monk to Queen Elizabeth of Eng-
land; the blade of which was half gold and halfsteel.
Nothing at one time was more common than to see
coins, half gold and half silver, which had been op~
rated upon by alchymists, for the same purposes of
trickery. In fact, says M. Geoffroy, in concluding
his long report, there is every reason to believe that
aU the famous histories which have been banded
down to us, about the transmutation of metals into
gold or silver,. by means of the powder of projec-
tion, or philosophical elixirs, are founded upon some
successful deception of the kind above narrated.
These pretended philos()phers invariably disappear-
ed after the first or second experiment, or their
powders or elixirs have failed to producetheir effect,
either because attention being excited they have
found no opportunity to renew the trick without
being discovered, or because they have not had suf-
ficient gold dust for more than one trial.
The disinterestedness of these would-be philo-
sopher,Jooked, at first sight, extremely imposing.
Instances were not rare, in which they generously
THE ALCHYMISTS. 1'85
abandoned all the profits of their transJI}utations-
even the honour of the discovery ! But this appa-
rent disinterestedness was one of the most cunning
of their manreuvres. It served to keep up the po-
pular expectation ; it showed the possibility of dis-
covering the philosopher's stone, and provided the
means of future advantages, which they were never
slow to lay hold of-such as entrances into royal
households, maintenance at the public expense, and
gifts from ambitious potentates, too greedy after
the gold they so easily promised.
It now only remains to trace the progress of the
rlelusion from the commencement of the eighteenth
century until the present day. It will be seen,
that until a \'ery recent period, there were but
.slight signs of a return to reason.
JEAN DELISLE.
In the year 1705, there was much talk in France
of a blacxsmith,·named Delisle, who had discovered
the philosopher's stone, and who went about the
country turning lead into gold. He was a native
of Provence, from which place his fame soon spread
to the capital. His early life is involved in ob-
scurity ; but Lenglet du Fresnoy has industriously
collected some particulars of his later career, which
possess considerable interest. He was a man with-
out any education, and had been servant in his
youth to an alchymist, from whom he learned many
of the tricks of the fraternity. The name of his
J\
186 T.HE. ALCHYMISTS•
master has never been discovered ; but· it is pre-
tended ·that he rendered himself in some manner
obnoxious to the government of Louis XIV, and
-
was obliged, in consequence, to take refuge in Swit-
zerland. Delisle accompanied him as far as Savoy,
and ·there, it is said, set upon him in a solitary
mountain-pass, and murdered and robbed him. He
then disguised himself as a pilgrim, and returned to
Frrance. At a lonely inn, by the road-side, where
he stopped for the night, he became acquainted
with a woman, named Aluys ; and so sudden a pas-
sion was enkindled betwixt them, that she consent-
ed to leave all, follow him, and share his good or
evil fortune wherever he went. They lived to-
gether for five or six years in Provence, without
exciting any attention, apparently possessed of a
decent independence. At last, in 1706, it was
given out that he was the possessor of the pbiloso-
pher's stone; and people, from far and near; came
flocking to his residence, at'the ChAteau de Ia Palu,
at Sylanez, near Barjaumont, to witness the wealth
he could make out of pumps and fire shovels. The
following account of his operations is given in a
letter addressed by M. de Cerisy, the Prior of
Chateauneuf, in the Diocese of Riez, in Provence,
to the Vicar of St. Jacques du Hautpas, at Paris,
and dated the 18th of November 1706:-
u I have something to relate to you, my dear
cousin, which will be interesting to .you and your
friends. The philosopher's stone, which so many
THE ALCHl::MlSTS. 187
persons have looked upon as a chimera, is at last
found. It is a man named Delisle, of the parish of
Sy1anez, and residing within a quarter of a league
of me, that has discovered this great secret. He
turns lead into gold, and iron into silver, by merely
heating these metals red hot, and pouring upon
them, in that state, some oil and powder he is pos-
sessed of ; so that it would not be impossible for
any man to make .a million a day, if he had suffi-
cient of this wondrous mixture. Some of the pale
gold which he had made in this manner, he sent to
the jewellers of Lyons, to have their opinion on its
quality. He also sold twenty pounds weight of it
to a merchant of Digne-, named Taxis. All the
jewellers say they never saw such fine gold in their
lives. He makes nails, part gold, part iron, and
pa~t silver. He promised to giv~ me one of them,
in a long conversation which I had with him the
other day, by order of the Bishop of Senes, who
saw bis operations with his own eyes, and detailed
all the circumstances to me.
n The Baron and Baroness de Rheinwald showed
me a lingot of gold made out of pewter before their
eyes by M. Delisle. My brother-in..law Saaveur,
who has wasted fifty years of his life in this great
study, brought me the other day a nail which he
had seen change.d into gold by Delisle, and fully
convinced me that all his previous experiments
were founded on an erroneous principle. This ex-
cellent workman received, a short time ago, a very
188 THE ALCHYMIS'f.S'.
kind letter from the superintendent of the royal
household, which I read. He offered to use all his
·influence with the ministers to prevent any at--
tempts upon his liberty, which has twice been
attacked by the agents of government. .It is be-
lieved that the oil he makes use of, is gold or silver
reduced to that state. He leaves it for a long
-time exposed to the rays of the sun. He told me
.that it generally took him six months to make all
his preparations. I told him that, apparently, the
King wanted to see him. He replied that he could
not exercise his art in el·ery place, as a certain
climate and temperature were absolutely necessary
to his success. .The truth is, that this man appears
to have no ambition. He only keeps two horses
and two men-servants. Besides, he loves his li-
berty, has no politeness, and speaks very bad
French; but his judgment seems to be solid. He
was formerly no more than a blacksmith, but ex-
celled in that trade without having been taught it.
All the great lords and.seigneurs from fur and near
come to visit him, and pay such court to him, that
it seems more like idolatry than anything else.
Happy would France be if this man would dis-
cover his secret to the King, to whom the super-
intendent has already sent some lingots t But the
happiness is too great to be hoped for; for I fear
that the workman and his secret will expire to-
gether. There is no doubt that this discovery will
make a great noise in the kingdom, unless- the cha-
THE ALCHYMISTS. 189
racter of the man, which I have just depicted to
you, prevent it. . At all events, posterity will hear
of him."
In another letter to the same person, dated the
27th of January 1707, M. de Cerisy says, "My
dear cousin, I spoke to you in my last letter of the
famous alchymist of Provence, M. Delisle. A good
deal of that was only hearsay, but now I am en-
abled to speak from my own experience. I have
in my possession a nail, half iron and half silver,
which I made myself. That great and admirable
workman also bestowed a still greater privilege
upon me- he allowed me to turn a piece of lead
which I had brought with me into pure gold, by
means of his wonderful oil and powder. All the
country have their eyes upon this gentleman :
some deny loudly, others are incredulous; but
those who have seen acknowledge .the truth. I
have read..the passport that has been sent to him
from Court, with orders that he should present
himself at Paris early in the spring. He told
me that he would go willingly, and that it was
himself who fixed the spring for his departure;
as he wanted to collect his materials, in order that,
immediately on his introduction to the King, he
might make an experiment worthy of his Majesty,
by converting a large quantity of lead into the
finest gold. I sincerely hope that he will not allow
his secret to die with him, but that he will com-
municate it to the King. As I had the honour to
190 THE ALCHYMISTS.
dine with him on Thursday last, the 20th of this-
month, being seated at his side, I told him in a
whisper that he could, if he liked, humble all the
enemies of France. He did not deny it, but began
to smile. In fact, this man is the miracle of art.
Sometimes he employs the oil and powder mixed,
sometimes the powder only, but in so small 8 quan-
tity that, when the lingot which I made was rub-
bed all over with it, it did not show at all."
This soft-headed priest was by no means the
only person in the neighbourhood who lost his wits
in hope~ of the boundless wealth held out by thi&
clever impostor. Another priest.. named De Lions,
8 chanter in the cathedral of Grenoble,.writing on
the 80th January 1707, says,-" M. Mesnard, the
curate of Montier, has written to me, stating that
there is a man, about thirty-five years of age,
named Delisle, who turns lead and iron into gold
and silver; and that this transmutation is so veri-
table and so true, that the goldsmiths affirm fhat
his.gold and silver are the purest and finest they
eyer saw. For five years, this man was looked
upon as a madman or a cheat; but the public
mind is now disabused with respect to him. He
now resides with M. de la Palu, at the chAteau of
the same name. M. de la Palu is not very easy in
his circumstances, and wants money to portion his
daughters, who have remained single till middle
age, no man being willing to take them without
a dowr.y. M. Delisle has promised to make them
THE ALCHYMI.STS. 191
the richest girls in the province before he goes to
Court, having been sent for by the King. He has
Biked for a little time before his departure, in order
that he may collect powder enough to make several
quintals. of gold before the eyes of his Majesty,.
to whom he intends to present them. The prin-
cipal matter of his wonderful powder is composed
of simples, principally the herbs Lunaria mqjor and ..
mmor. There is a good deal of the first planted
by him in the gardens of La Palu ; and he gets
the other from the mountains, that stretch about
two leagues from Montier. What I tell you now is
not a mere story invented for your diversion: M.
Mesnard can bring forward many witnesses to its
truth; among others, the Bishop of Senes, who saw
these surprising operations performed ; and M. de
Cerisy, whom you know well. Delisle transmutes
his metals in public. He rubs the lead or iron with
his powder, and puts it over burning charcoal. In
a short time it changes colour; the lead becomes
yellow, and is found to be converted into excellent
gold : the iron becomes white, and is found to be
pure silver. Delisle is altogether an illiterate per-
son. M. de St. Auban endeavoured to teach him
to read.and write, but be profited very little by his
lessons. He is unpolite, fantastic, and a dreamer,
and acts by fits and starts."
Delisle, it would appear, was afraid of venturing
to ~1nis.. He knew that his sleight of hand would
be too narrowly watched in the royal presence ;
191 THE ALCHYMISTS.
and upon some pretence or other, he delayed the·
journey for more than two years. Desmarets, the
Minister of Finance to Louis XIV, thinking the
u-philosopher" dreaded foul play, twice sent him
a safe conduct under the King's seal; but Delisle
still refused. Upon this, Desmarets wrote to the
Bishop of Senes for his real opinion as to these
famous transmutations. The following was the
answer of that prelate :-
u Copy of a report addressed to M. Desmarets,
Comptroller-General of the Finances to His
Majesty Louis XIV, by the Bishop of Senes,
dated March 1709.
n SIR,
" A twelvemonth ago, or a little more, I ex-
pressed to you my joy at hearing of your elevation
to the ministry; I have now the honour to write
you my opinion of the Sieur Delisle, who has been
working at the transmutation of metals in my dio-
cese. I have, during the last two years, spoken of
him several times to the Count de Pontchartrain,
because he asked me; but I have not written to
you, sir, or to M. de Chamillart, because you nei..
ther of you requested my opinion upon the subject.
Now, however, that you have given me to under-
stand that you wish to know my sentiments on the
matter, I will unfold myself to you in all sincerity,
for the interests of the King and the glory of your
ministry.
TUE ALCHYMISTS. 193
u There are two things about the Sieur Delisle
which, in my opinion, should be examined without
prejudice: the one relates to his secret; the other,
to his person; that is to say, whether his tran.s~
mutations are real, and whether his conduct has
been regular. As regards the secret of the philo-
sopher's stone, I deemed it impossible, for a long
time ; and for more than three years, I was more
mistrustful of the pretensions of this Sieur Delisle
than of any other person. During this period I
afforded him no countenance; I even aided a per-
son, who was highly recommended to me by an in-
fluential family of this province, to prosecute Delisle
for some offence or other which it was alleged he had
committed. But this person, in his anger against
him, having told me that he had himself been seve-
ral times the bearer of gold and silver to the gold-
smiths of Nice, Aix, and Avignon, which had been
transmuted by Delisle from lead and iron, I began
to waver a little in my opinions respecting him. I
afterwards met Delisle at the house of one of my
friends. To please me, the family asked Delisle to
operate before me, to which he immediately con-
sented. I offered him some iron nails, which he
changed into silver in the chimney-place before six
or seven credible witnesses. I took the nails thus
transmuted, and sent them by my almoner to 1m-
bert, the jeweller of Aix, who, having subjected
them to the necessary trial, returned them to me,
saying they were very good silver. Still, however,
VOL. III. 0
19-i THE ALCHYMISTS.
I was not quite satisfied. M. de Pontcbartrain
having hinted to me, two years previously, that I
should do a thing agreeable to his Majesty if I
examined into this business of Delisle, I resolved
to do so now. I therefore summoned the alchy-
mist to come to me at Castellane. He caine; and
I had him escorted by eight or ten vigilant men,
to whom I had giyen notice to watch. his hands
strictly. Before all of us he changed two pieces of
lead into gold and silver. I sent them both to
M. de Pontchartrain ; and he afterwards informed
me by a letter, now lying before me, that he had
shown them to the most experiertced goldsmiths
of Paris, who unanimously pronounced them to be
gold and silver of the very purest quality, and
without alloy. My former bad opinion of Delisle
was now indeed shaken. It was much more so
when he performed transmutation five or aix times
before me at Senes, and made me perform it my-
self before him without his putting his hahd· t~
anything. You have seen, sir, the letter of my
nephew, the Pere Berard, of the Oratoire at Paris,
on the experiment that he performed at Castellane~
and the truth of which I hereby attest. Another
nephew of mine, the Sieur Bourget, who was here
thr~e weeks ago, performed the same experiment in
tny presence, and will detail all the circumstances
to you personally at Paris. A hundred persons
in my diocese have been Witnesses of these things.
I confess to you, sir, that, after the testimony of
1\ I
THE ALCHYMISTS. 195
so many speCtators and so many goldsmiths, and
after the repeatedly successful experiments that I
saw performed, all my prejudices vanished. My
reason was convinced by my eyes; and the phan-
toms of impossibility which I had conjured up were
dissipated by the work of my own hands.
n It now only remains for me to sp'eak to you on
the subject of his person and conduct. Three
suspicions have been excited against him : the first,
That he was implicated in some criminal proceed-
ing at Cisteron, and that he falsified the coin of
the realm ; the second, That the King sent him
two safe-conducts without effect; and the third,
That he still delays going to court to operate before
the King. You may see, sir, that I do not hide
or avoid anything. As regards the business at
Cisteron, the Sieur Delisle has repeatedly assured
me that there was nothing against him which could
reasonably draw him within the pale ofjustice, ahd
that he had never carried on any calling injurious
to the King's service. It was true that, six or
seven years ago, he bad been to Cisteron to gather
herbs necessary for his powder, and that he had
lodged at the house of one Pelouse, whom be
thought an honest man. Pelouse was ·accused of
clipping Louis d_'ors; and as he had lodged with
him, he was suspected of being his accomplice.
This inere suspicion, without any ptoof whatever,
had caused hiin to be condemned for contumacy ;
a common case enough with judges, who always
0 2
1\ (
196 THE ALCHYMISTS.
proceed with much rigour against those who are
absent. During my own sojourn at Aix, it was
well known that a man, named Andr~ Aluys, had
spread about reports injurious to the character of
Delisle, because he hoped thereby to avoid paying
him a sum of forty Louis that he owed him. But
permit me, sir, to go further, and to add that, even
if there were well-founded supicions against Delisle~
we should look with some little indulgence on
the faults of a man who possesses a secret so useful
to the state. As regards the two safe-conducts
sent him by the King, I think I can answer cer-.
tainly that it was through no fault of his that he
paid so little attention to them. His year, strictly
speaking, consists only of the four summer months;
and when by any means he is prevented from mak-
ing the proper use of them, he loses a whole year.
Thus the first safe-conduct became useless by the
irruption of the Duke of Savoy in 1707; and the
second bad hardly been obtained, at the end of
June 1708, when the said Delisle was insulted by
a party of armed men, pretending to act under
the authority of the Count de Grignan, to whom
he wrote several letters of complaint, without re.-
ceiving any answer, or promise that his safety would
be attended to. What I have now told you, sir.
removes the third objection, and is the reason
why, at the present time, he cannot go to Paris
to the King, in fulfilment of his promises made
two years ago. Two, or even three, summers have
1\
THE ALCRYMlSTS. 197'
been lost to him, owing to the continual inquietude
he has laboured under. He bas, in consequence,
been unable to work, and has not collected a
sufficient quantity of his oil and powder, or brought
what he has got to the necessary degree of per-
fection. For this reason also he could not give
the Sieur de Bourget the portion be promised him
for your inspection. If the other day he changed
some lead into gold with a few grains of his pow..
der, they were assuredly all he had ; for be told
me that such was the fact long before he knew my
nephew was coming. Even if he had preserved
this small quantity to operate before the King, I
am sure that, on second thoughts, he would never
have adventured with so little ; because the slight-
est obstacles in the metals (their being too hard
or too soft, which is only discovered in operating)
would have caused him to be looked upon as an
impostor, if, in case his first powder had proved
ineffectual, he had not been possessed of more to
renew the experiment and surmount the difficulty.
u Permit me, sir, in conclusion, to repeat that
such an artist as this should not be driven to the
last extremity, nor forced to seek an asylum offered
to him in other countries, but which he has de-
spised, as much from his own inclinations as from
the advice I have given him. You risk nothing in
giving him a little time, and in hurrying him you
may lose a great deal. The genuineness of his
gold _
can no longer be doubted, after the testimony
• 1\
l9S THE ALCHYMISI'S.
of so many jewellers of Aix, Lyons, and Paris in
its favour. As it is not his fault that ~he previou~t
&afe-conducts sent to him have been of no service,
it will be necessary to send him another ; for the
success of which I will be enswerable, if you will
confide the matter to me, and trust to my zeal for
the service of his Majesty, to whom I pray you
to communicate this letter, that I may be spar~cl
the just l'eproacb~s h~ mjght one day heap up~m
me if be remained ignorant of the facts I han now
written to you. Assure him, if you please, th!'-t,
if you send me such a ~afe-conduct, I will ohlige
the Sieur Delisle to depose with me such precipu~
pledges of his fidelity, as shall enable Ple tp be
responsible myself to the King. The$e .are mJ
sentiments, and I submit them to your superioJ;
ftnowledg.e; aod have the honour tQ remajn, with
much re1pect, &c.
u + JoHN, BISHOP. oF 8£Nks...
" To M. De~rets, Minister ofState, and
" Comptroller-General ofthe Finances, at Paris.~
That Delisle was no ordinary impostor, but a
man of consummate cunning ancl aqdress, is very
evident from this letter. The llishop was fairly
taken in by his clev.er legerdemain, and when once
his first distrust was conquered, appear.ed as an1i~
ous to dec.eive himself as even Delisle co.uld hav~
wished. His faith was so abundant ~~at he ~
the ease of his protege his own, and would not
1\ I
THE ALCBYMISTS. . l99
auffer the breath·of suspicion to be directed against
ltim. Bqth Louis ~nd his minister appear to have
been dJ~.zzled py the brilliant hopes he ~ad excited,
and a third pass, or safe-conduct, WJLS im~ediately
~ent t9 tlte alchymist, with a command from the
King that ~~ should forthwith present himself at
Versailles, and make public trial of his oil and
powder. But this did not suit the plans of Deli~le:
in the province!! he was regarded as a man of po
~p1al1 importance ; the servile Hattery that awaited
biPl wherever he went was so grateful to his mind
that he could not willingly relinq~ish it and run
upon certain detection at the court of the Monarch.
Upon one pretext or another he delayed his joutney,
not.withstanding the earnest solicitations Qf his good
friend the Bishop. The latter had given his wor4
to tbe minister, and pledged his honour that he
would induce Delisl~ to go, and he began to be
alarmed when he found he could not subdue the
qbstinacy of that individual. For more than two
yeal'S he continued to remon~trate with him, and
was always met by some excus.e, that there wa~ not
sufficient powder, Qr that it hJLd not been lang
enough exposed to the rays of tl:le sun. At last hili
patience was exha~.ted ; and {earful that he migM
suffer in the royal . ~~tif!lation by longer delay, h,~
wrote to the King fo.- a /ettre de cack~t, in virtu~
of which the ~lchymi~t was seized at the castl~
of La Palu, in the .month of June 1711, an~ c~rried
off to be imprisoned in the Bastille.
200 THE ALCHYMISTS.
The gendarmes were aware that their prisoner was
supposed tobethe luckypossessor ofthe philosopher's
stone, and on the road they conspired to rob and
murder him. One of them pretended to be touch·
ed with pity for the misfortunes of the philosopher,
and offered to give him an opportunity of escape
whenever be could divert the attention of his com~
panions. Delisle was profuse in his thanks, little
dreaming of the snare that was laid for him. His
treacherous friend gave notice of the success of
the stratagem so far ; and it was agreed that De-
lisle should be allowed to struggle with and over-
throw one of them while the rest were at some
distance. They were then to pUl'sue him and
shoot him through the heart ; and after robbing
the corpse of the philosopher•s stonE', convey it
to Paris on a cart, and tell M. Desmarets that
the prisoner had attempted to escape, and would
have succeeded, if they bad not fired after him and
shot him through the body. At a convenient place
the scheme was executed. At a given signal from
the friendly gendarme Delisle fled, while another
gendarme took aim and shot him through the
thigh. Some peasants arriving at the instant, they
were prevented from killing him as they intend-
ed ; and he was transported to Paris, maimed and
bleeding. He was thrown into a dungeon in the
Bastille, and obstinately tore away the bandages
which the surgeons applied to his wound. He
never afterwards rose from his bed.
THE ALCHYMlSTS. 201
The Bishop of Senes visited him in prison, and
promised him his liberty if he would transmute a
certain quantity of lead into gold before the King.
The unhappy man had no longer the means of
carrying on the deception ; he had no gold, and
no double-bottomed crucible or hollow wand to
conceal it in, even if he had. He would not, how-
ever, confess that he was an impostor; but merely
said he did not know how to make the -powder
of projection, but had receiv.ed a quantity from
an Italian philosopher, and had used it all in his
various transmutations in Provence. He lingered
for seven or eight months in the Bnstil1e, and died
from the efFects of his wound, in the forty-nrst year
of his age.
ALBERT ALUYS.
This pretender to the philosopher's stone, was
the son, by a former husband, of the woman Aluys,
with whom Delisle became acquainted at the com-
mencement of his career, in the cabaret by the road
side, and whom he afterwards married. Delisle
performed the part of a father towards him, and
thought he could show no stronger proof of his
regard, than by giving him the necessary instruc-
tions to carry on the deception which had raised
himself to such a pitch of greatness. The young
Aluys was an apt scholar, and soon mastered all the
jargon of the alchymists. He discoursed learnedly
upon projections, cimentations, sublimations, the
( \
THE A.LCHYHISTS.
elixir of life, Jlnd th~ universal al~ahest ; and on
the death of Delisle gave out that the 11ecret of that
great adept baq been commuqicated to hill), and
to h~m only. His mot~er aided in the fraud, with
the hope t~~y n:iight bpth fasten themselves, in
the true alchylllical fashion, upon some rich dupe,
who would entertain them m~gnificently while the
operation was in progress. The fate of Delisle
was no inclucemeJlt for theJD to ~top in France.
The Provem;als, it is true, entertained as high an
g>pinion as ever of his skill, an4 were well inplined
to believe the tales of the young adept on whom
his mantle had fallen ; but the dungeons of the
Bastille were yawning for th.eir prey, and Aluys and
his mother decamped with all convenient expedi-
tion. They travelled about the Continent for seve-
ral years, sponging upon credulous rich men, and
now and then performing ~uccessful transtputations
.by the aid of double-l;>ottomed crucibles and the
like. In the year 1726, Aluys, without his mother,
who appears to have died in the int~rval, was at
Vienna, where he introduced himself to the Duke
de Richelieu, at that time ambassador fro~ the
court of France. He completely deceived this
nobleman; he turned lead into gold (apparently)
on seyeral occasions, and even made the ambassador
himself turn an iron nail into a silver one. The
Duke afterwards boasted to Lenglet .du Fresnoy of
his achievements as an alchymist, aqd regretted
that he had oot bee~ able to discover the secret
'&liE ALCHY'MIST&.
of the precious pQwqer by which pe p,erfonned
them.
Aloys soon found that, although he might make
a dupe. of th~ Duke de Richelie~, l)e could not
get any money: fro~ him. On the contrary, ~be
Duke expected all hil! pokers an~ fire sqovels to
be made silyer, and all his pewter utensils gold;
and thought the honour Qf his acquaintance. wa'
reward sufficient for a rolurier, who could not want
wealth since he possessed s.o invaluable a secret~
Aloys seeing that so much was expected of him,
bade adieu to his Excellency, and pro~eeded to
Bo~emia, accompanied by a pupil, and by'a young
girl wl10 bad fallen in love with him in Vienna~
Some noblemen in Bohemia rec~ived him kindly,
and entertained him at their houses for months
~t a time. It was his usual practice. t9 pret~nd
that he possessed only a few grains of his pow-
der, with which he would op~r~~e in any bous.e
where he intended to 6.x his quarters for the sea-
son. He would make the pr.oprietor a present
of the piece of gold thus tral\smuted, and pro-
mise him millions, if be could only be provided
with leisure to gather his lunaria mqjor ~nd mino,.
on their n;wuntain top$, a~d board, lodging, anq
. loose cash for himself, his wife, and his pupil in the
interval.
He exhausted in this wanner the patience of
some dozen of people, when, t~inking that there
was less danger for him ~{l Fral\ce, under the young
1\
204 THE ALCBYMlSTS.
king Louis XV, than under his old and morose
predecessor, be returned to Provence. On his ar-
rival at Aix, be presented himself before M. Ie
Bret, the President of the province, a gentleman
who was much attached to the pursuits of alchymy,
and had great hopes of being himself able to find
the philosopher's stone. M. Je Bret, contrary to
his expectation, received him very coolly, in conse-
quence of some rumours that were spread abroad
respecting him ; and told him to call upon him on
the morrow. Aluys did not like the tone of the
voice, or the expression of the eye of the learned
President, as that functionary looked down upon
him. Suspecting that all was not right, he left
Aix secretly the same evening, and proceeded to
Marseilles. But the police were on the watch for
him; and he had not been there four-and-twenty
hours, before he was arrested on a charge of coin-
ing, and thrown into prison.
As the proofs against him were too convincing to
leave him much hope of an acquittal, he planned
an escape from durance. It so happened that the
gaoler had a pretty daughter, and Aluys soon
discovered that she was tender-hearted. He en-
deavoured to gain her in his favour, and suc-
ceeded. The damsel, unaware that be was a mar-
ried man, conceived and encouraged a passion for
him, and generously provided him with the means
of escape. After be had been nearly a year in pri-
son he succeeded in getting free, lea\·ing the poor
TilE ALCHYMISTS. 205
girl ·behind, to learn that he was already married,
and to lament in solitude that she had given her
heart to an ungrateful vagabond.
When he left Marseilles, he had not a shoe to
his foot, or a decent garment to his back, b1:1t was
provided with some money and clothes by his wife
in a neighbouring town. They then found their
way to Brussels, and by dint of excessive impu-
dence, brought themselves into notice. He took a
house, fitted up a splendid laboratory, and gave out
that he knew the aec.ret of transmutation. In vain
did M. Perce!, ·the brother-in-law of Lenglet du
Fresnoy, who resided in that city, expose his pre-
tensions, and hold him up to contempt as an igno-
rant impostor : the world believed him not. They
took the alchymist at his word, and besieged his
doors, to see and wonder at the clevtlr legerdemain
by which he turned iron nails into gold and sil-
ver. A rich gre.ffier paid him a large sum of
money that he might be instructed in the art,
and Aluys gave him several lessons on the most
common principles of chemistry. The greffier
~tudied hard for a twelvemonth, and then dis-
covered that his master was a quack. He de-
manded his money back again; but Aluys was not
inclined to give it him, and the affair was brought
before the civil tribunal of the province. In the
mean time, however~ the greffier died suddenly ;
poisoned, according to the popular rumour, by his
debtor, to avoid repayment. So great an outcry
206 THE ALCHYMISTS.
arose in the city, that Aluys, who may haVe been
innocent of the crime; was nevertheless arraid to
remain and brave it. He withdrew secretly in the
night, and retired to Paris. Here·all trace of him
is lost. He was never heard of again ; but Lenglet
du Fresnoy conjectures, that he ended ·his dl.ys in
some obscure dungeon, into which he was cast for
coining, or other malpractices.
THE CoUNT DE ST. GEihuiN.
This adventurer was of a higher grade than ibe
last, and played a distinguished ·part at the court
of Louis XV. He pretended ·to ·have discovered
the elixir of life, by means of which be could make
any one live for centuries ; and allowed it to be be.L
lieve'd that his own age was upward:~ of two thou~
sand years. He entertained many ·of the opinion*
of the Rosicrucians ; boasted of his intercourse witli
sylphB and salamanders ; and of his power of draW.:.
ing diamonds from the earth, and pearls from the
sea, by the force of his incantations. He did not lay
claim td the merit of having discovered the philosO..
pher's stone; but ·devoted so much of his time to
the operat.ion·s of alchymy, that it was very ~b~
rally believed; that, i~ such a thing as the philos\i:.
pher's stone had ever existed, or eould be <1&lled:
into ~xis~nce, he was the man to succeed in fil:ld;.
ing it.
It has never yet been discovered what was his
THE ALCHYMISTS. 207
real name, or in what country he was born. Some
believed, from the Jewish cast of his handsome
countenance, that he was the n wandering Jew;"
others asserted, that he was the issue of an Arabian
princess, and that his father was a salamander ;
while others, more reasonable, affirmed him to be
the son of a Phrtuguese Jew, established at Bour-
deaux. He first carried on his imposture in Ger-
many, where he made considerable sums by selling
an elixir to arrest the progress of old age. The
Marechal de Belle-Isle purchased a dose of it ; and
was so captivated with the wit, learning, and good
manners of the charlatan, and so convinced of the
justice of his most preposterous pretensions, that
he induced him to fix his residence in Paris. Under
the Marshat•s patronage, he first appeared in the
gay circles of that capital. Every one was de.
lighted with the mysterious stranger ; ·,who, at this
period of his life, appears to have been a~out
seventy years of 'age, but did not look more ~han
forty-five. His easy assurance imposed upon most
people. His reading was extensive, and his memory
extraordinarily tenaCious of the slightest circuni4
stances. His pretension to have lived for so many
centuries natural1y exposed ·him to some puzzling
questions, as to the appearance, life, and conversa•
tion of the great men of former days·; but he wa8
never at a loss for an answer. Many who ques.
tioned him for the purpose of scoffing at him, re·
frained in perplexity, quite bewildered bf his pre-
{ 1\ I
208 THE ALCIJYMISTS.
sence of mind, his ready replies, and his astonishing
accuracy on every point mentioned in history. To
increase the mystery by which he was surrounded,
he permitted no person to know how he lived. He
dressed in a style of the greatest magnificence;
sported valuable diamonds in his hat, on his fingers,
!lnd in his shoe-buckles ; and sometimes made the
most costly presents to the ladies of the court,
It was suspected by many that he was a spy, in the
pay ofthe English ministry ; but there never was ~
tittle of evidence to support the charge. The King
looked upon him with marked favour, was often
closeted with him for hours together, and would not
suffer anybody to speak disparagingly ofhim. Vol-
taire constantly turned him into ridicule ; and, in
one of his letters to the King of Prussia, mentions
him as " un comte pour rire ;" and states, that he
pretended to have dined with the holy fathers, at
the Council of Trent I
In the '"Memoirs of Madame du Haosset,"
chamber-woman to Madame du Pompadour, there
are some amusing anecdotes of this personage.
Very soon after his arrival in Paris, he had the
entree of her dressing-room ; a favour only granted
to the most powerful lords at the court of her royal
lover. Madame was fond of conv~rsing with him;
and, in her presence, he thought fit to lower his
pretensions very considerably : but he often al-
lowed her to believe that he had lived two or three
hundred years, at least. u One day," says Madame
THE ALCHYMISTS. 20~
du Hausset, 61
Madame said to him, in my presence,
' What was the personal appearance of Francis I 1
He was a King I should have liked.' ' He was, in-
deed, very captivating: replied St. Germain; and
he proceeded to describe his face and person, as
that of a man whom be had accurately observed.
'It is a pity he was too ardent. I could have
given him some good advice, which would have
saved him from all his misfortunes : but he would
not have followed it ; for it seems as if a fatality
attended princes, forcing them to shut their ears
to the wisest counsel: ' Was his court very bril·
liant?' inquired Madame du Pompadour. •Very,'
replied the Count ; ' but those of his grandsons sur-
passed it. In the time of Mary Stuart and Mar-
garet of Valois, it was a land of enchantment-a
temple sacred to pleasures of every kind.' Madame
said, laughing, ' You seem to have seen aJI this.'
'I have an excellent memory,' said he, 6
and have
read the history of France with great care. I
sometimes amuse myself, not by making, but by
letting, it be believed that I lived in old times.'
61
' But you do not tell us your age; said Madame
du Pompadour to him on another occasion; 'and
yet you pretend you are very old. The Countess
de Gergy, who was, I believe, ambassadress at
Vienna some fifty years ago, says she saw you
there, exactly the same as you now appear.'
"'It is true, Madam,' replied St. Germain; 'I
knew Madame de Gergy many years ago.'
VOL. JU. p
ilO THE ALCHYMISTS.
~~ ~But, according to her account, you muat be
more than a hundred years old1'
H • That is not impossible,' said he, laughing;
c but it is much more possible that the.good lady ia
in her dotage.'
"
1
You gave her an elixir, surprising for the
effects it produced; for she says, that during a
length of time, she only appeared to be eighty-
four ; the age at which she took it. Why don't
you give it to the King?'
" ' 0 Madam !' he exclaimed, ~ the physicians
would have me broken on the wheel, were I to
think of drugging his Majesty.'"
When the world begins to believe extraordinary
things ofan individual, there is no telling where its
extravagance will stop. People, when once they
have taken. the start, vie with each other who shall
believe most. At this period all Paris resounded with
the wonderful adventures of the Count de St.
Germain; and a company of waggish young men
tried the following experiment upon its credulity:-
A clever mimic, who, on account of the amusement
he afforded, was admitted into good society, was
taken by them, dressed as the Count de St. Ger-
main, into several houses in the Rue du Marais.
He imitated the Count's peculiarities admirably,
and found his auditors open-mouthed to believe any
absurdity be chose to utter. No fiction was too
monstrous for their all-devouring credulity. He
.spoke of the Saviour of the world in terms of the
1\ I
THE ALCHYMISTS.
greatest familiarity; said he had supped with him
at the marriage in Canaan of Galilee, where the
water was miraculously turned into wine. In fact,
he said he was an intimate friend of his, and had
often warned him to be less romantic and impru-
dent, or he would finish his career miserably. This
infamous blasphemy, strange to say, found be-
lievers; and, ere three days had elapsed, it was cur-
rently reported that St. Germain was born soon
after the deluge, and that he would never die!
St. Germain himself was too much a man of the
world to assert anything so monstrous ; but he took
no pains to contradict the story. In all his con-
versations with persons of rank and education, he
advanced his claims modestly, and as if by mere in-
advertency ; and. seldom ·pretended to a longevity
beyond three hundred years ; .except when he found
he was in company with persons who would b.elieve
anything. He often spoke of Henry VIII, as if he
had known him intimately; and of the Emperor·
Charles V, as if that monarch had delighted in his
society. He would describe conversations which
took place with such an apparent truthfulness, and
be so exceedingly minute and particular as to the
dress and appearance of the individuals, and even
the weather at the time, and the furniture of the
room, that three persons out of four were generally
inclined to credit him. He had constant applica~
tions from rich old women for an elia.ir to make
them young again ; and, it would appear, gained
P2
,,
/
t \ I
./
212 THE ALCHYMISTS.
large sums in this manner. To those whom·he was
pleased to call his friends, he said, his mode of
living and plan of diet were far superior to any
elixir ; and that anybody might attain a patri-
archal age, by refraining from drinking at meals,
and very sparingly at any other time. The
Baron de Gleichen followed this system, and took
great quantities of senna ]eaves, expecting to live
for two hundred years. He died, however, at
seventy-three. The Duchess de Choiseul was de-
sirous of following the same system ; but the Duke
her husband, in much wrath, forbade her to follow
any system prescribed by a man who had so equi-
vocal a reputation as M. de St. Germain.
Madame du Hausset says, she saw St. Germain,
and conversed with him several times. He ap-
peared to her to be about fifty years of age, was of
the middle size, and had fine expressive features.
His dress was always simple, but displayed much
taste. He usually wore diamond rings of great
value ; and his watch and snuff-box were orna..
mented with a profusion of precious stones. One
day, at Madame du Pompadour's apartments, where
the principal courtiers were assembled, St. Germain
made his appearance in diamond knee and shoe
buckles, ofso fine a water, that Madame said, she did
not think the King had any equal to them. He was
entreated to pass into the antechamber, and undo
them; which be did, and brought them to Ma-
dame, for closer inspection. M. de Gontant, who
1\ I I
.
THE ALCHYMISTS. !US
was present, said their value could not be less
than two hundred thousand livres, or upwards of
eigllt thousand pounds sterling. The Baron de
Gleichen, in his H Memoirs," relates, that the Count
one day showed him so many diamonds, that he
thought he saw before him all the treasures of
Aladdin•s lamp ; and adds, that he bad had great
experience in precious stones, and was convinced
that all those possessed by the Count were genuine.
On anotber occasion, St. Germain showed Madame
du Pompadour a small box, containing topazes,
emeralds, and diamonds, worth half a million of
livres. He affected to despise all this wealth,
to make the world more easily believe that he
could, like the Rosicrucians, draw precious stones
out of the eart~ by the magic of his song. He
gave away a great number of these jewels to the
ladies of the court; and Madame du Pompadour
was so charmed with his generosity, that she gave
him a richly-enamelled snuff-box, as a token of her
regard; on the lid of which was beautifulJy painted
a portrait of Socrates, or some other Greek sage,
to whom she compared him. He was not only
lavish to the mistresses, but to the maids. Ma-
dame du Hausset says,-" The Count came to see
Madame du Pompadour, who was very ill, and Jay
on the sofa. He showed her diamonds enough to
furnish a king's treasury. Madame sent for me
to see all those beautiful things. I looked at them
with an air of the utmost astonishment; but I
1\ I
-- ~
THE ALCHYMlSTS.
made signs to her, that I thought them all false.
The Count felt· for something in a pocket-book
about twice as large as a spectacle-case ; and, at
length, drew- out two or three little paper packets,.
which he unfolded, and exhibited a superb ruby.
He threw on the table, with a contumptuous air,
a little cross ofgreen and white stones. I looked
at it, and said it was not to be despised. I then
put it on, and admired it greatly. The Count
begged me to accept it. I refused. He urged me
to take it. At length, he pressed so warmly, that
Madame, seeing it could not be worth more than a
thousand Jivres, made me a sign to accept it. l
took the cross, much pleased with the Count's po-
liteness."
How the adventurer obtained his wealth remaini
a secret. He could not have made it all by the
sale of his elixir vitae in Germany; though, no
doubt, some portion of it was derived from that
source. Voltaire positively says, he was in the pay
of foreign governments ; and in his letter to th~
King of Prussia, dated the 5th of April 1758, says,
that he was initiated in all the secrets of Choiseul,
Kaunitz, and Pitt. Of what use he could be to
any of those ministers, and to Choiseul especially,
is a mystery of mysteries.
There appears no doubt that he possessed the
secret of removing spots from diamonds; and, in
all probability, he gained considel)lble sums by
buying, at inferior prices, such as had flaws in
THE ALCHYMISTS. i15
the~, an~ afterwards disposing of them at a profit
of cent. per cent. Madame du Hausset relates
the following anecdote on this particular :-11
The
King," says she, 11
ordered a...middling~sized dia-
mond, which had a flaw in it, to be brought to him.
After having it weighed, his Majesty said to the
Count, ' The value of this diamond, as it is, and
with the flaw in it, is six thousand livres ; without
the flaw, it would be worth, at least, ten thousand.
Will you undertake to make me a gainer of four
thousand Jivres 1' St. Germain examined it very
attentively, and said, ' It is possible; it may be
done. I will bring it you again in a month.'
At the time appointed, the Count brought back
the diamond, without a spot, and gave it to the
King. It was wrapped in a cloth of amianthos,
which he took off. The King had it weighed im- ·
mediately, and found it very little diminished. His
Majesty then sent it to his jeweller, by M. de Gon-
tant,without telling him ofanything that had passed.
The jeweller gave nine thousand six hundred livrea
for it. The King, however, sent for the diamond
back again, and said he would keep it as a curi-
osity. He could not overcome his surprise; and
said M. de St. Germain must be worth millions ;
especially if he possessed the secret of making large
diamonds out of small ones. The Count neither
said that he could, or could not ; but positively
asserted, that he knew how to make pearls grow,
and give them the finest water. Tbe King paid
.
.
216 THE ALCHYMISTS.
•
him great attention, and so did Madame du Pom-
padour. M. du Quesnoy once said, that St. Gt:r-
main was a quack; but the King reprimanded him.
In fact, his Majesty appears infatuated by him ;
and sometimes talks ofhim as if his descent were
.
illustrious."
St. Germain had a most amusing vagabond for a
servant, to whom he would often appeal for cor-
robation, when relating some wonderful event that
happened centuries before. The fellow, who was
not without ability, generally corroborated him in
a most satisfactory manner. Upon one occasion,
his master was telling a party of ladies and gentle-
men, at dinner, some conversation he had had in
Palestine, with King Richard I. of England, whom
he described as a very particular friend of his.
Signs of astonishment and incredulity were visible
on the faces of the company; upon which St. Ger-
main very coo1Jy turned to his servant, who stood
behind his chair, and asked him if he had not
spoken truth ? n I really cannot say," replied the
man, without moving a muscle ; " you forget, sir,
I have only been five hundred years in your ser-
vice!" "Ah! true," said his master; "I remem-
ber now ; it was a little before your time !,
Occasionally, when with men whom he could not
so easily dupe, he gave utterance to the contempt
with which he could scarcely avoid regarding such
gaping credulity. " These fools of Parisians," said
he, to the Baron de Gleichen, "believe me to be
·-·
THE ALCHYMISTS. 217
more than five hundred years old ; and, since they
will have it so, I confirm them in their idea. Not
but that I really am much older than I appear."
Many other stories are related of this strange
impostor; but enough have been quoted to show
his character and pretensions. It appears that he
endeavoured to find the philosopher's stone; but
never boasted of possessing it. The Prince of
Hesse Cassel, whom he had known years before, in
Germany, wrote urgent letters to him, entreating
him to quit Paris, and reside with him. St. Ger-
main at last consented. Nothing further is known
ofhis career. There were no gossipping memoir-
writers at the court of Hesse Cassel to chronicle
his sayings and doings. He died at Sleswig, under
the roof of his friend the Prince, in the year 1784.
CAOLIOSTR.O.
This famous charlatan, the friend and successor
of St. Germain, ran a career still more extraordi-
nary. He was the arch-quack of his age, the last "
of the great pretenders to the philosopher's stone
and the water of life, and during his brief season
of prosperity one of the most conspicuous charac-
ters of Europe.
. His real name was Joseph Balsamo. He was
born at Palermo about the year 1748, of humble
parentage. He had the misfortune to lose his
father during his infancy, and his education was
left in consequence to some relatives .of his mother..,
1\
!18 THE ALCHYMISTS.
the latter being too poor to afford him any in..
struetion beyond mere reading and writing. He
was sent in his fifteenth year to a monastery, to
be taught the elements of chemistry and physic ;
but his temper was so impetuous, his indolence so
invincible, and his vicious habits so deeply rooted,
that he made no progress. After remaining some
years, he left it with the character of an unin·
formed and dissipated young man, with good natu..
ral talents but a bad disposition. When he be~
came of age, he abandoned himself to a life of
riot and debauchery, and entered himself, in fact,
into that celebrated fraternity, known in France
and Italy as the u Knights of Industry," and in
England as the H Swell Mob." He was far from
being an idle or unwilling member of the corps.
The first way in which he distinguished himself
was by forging orders of admission to the theatres.
He afterwards robbed his uncle, and counterfeited
a will. For acts like these, be paid frequent com..
pulsory visits to the prisons of Palermo. Some..
how or other he acquired the character of a sor-
cerer-of a man who had failed in discovering the
secrets of alchymy, and had sold his soul to the
devil for the gold which he was not able to make
by means of transmutation. He took no pains to
disabuse the popular mind on this particular, but
rather encouraged the belief than otherwise. He
at last made use of it to cheat a silversmith, named
Marano, of about sixty ounces of gold, and was
THE ALCHYMISTS. ~19
in consequence obliged to leave Palermo. He
persuaded this . man that he could show him a
treasure hidden in a cave, for which service he
was to receive the sixty ounces of gold, while the
silversmith was to have all the treasure for the
mere trouble of digging it up. They went to·
gether at midnight to an excavation in the vicinity
of Palermo, where Balsamo drew a magic circle,
and invoked the devil to show his treasures. Sud.
denly there appeared half a dozen fellows, the ac-
complices of the swindler, dressed to represent
devils, with horns on their heads, claws to their
fingers, and vomiting apparently red and blue
flame. They were armed with pitc~forks, with
which they belaboured poor Marano till he was
almost dead, and robbed him of his sixty ounces
of gold and all the valuables he carried about his
porson. They then made ofF, accompanied by
Balsamo, leaving the unlucky silv~rsmith to re·
cover or die at his leisure. Nature chose the
former course ; and soon after daylight he was
restored to his sen$es, smarting in body from his
blows and in spirit for the deception of which he
had been the lictim. His first impulse was to
denounce Balsamo to the magistrates of the town ;
but on further redection he was afraid of the ridi-
cule that a full exposure of all the circumstances
would draw upon him : he therefore took the
truly Italian re,olution of being revenged on Bal~
samo by murdering him at the first convenient
1\ 4 I I
I
THE ALCHYMISTS.
opportunity. Having given utterance to this threat
in the hearing of a friend of Balsamo, it was re-
ported to the latter, who immediately packed up
his valuables and quitted Europe.
He chose Medina, in Arabia, for his future dwell-
ing-place., and there became acquainted with a
Greek named Altotas, a man exceedingly well
versed in all the languages of the East, and an
indefatigable student of alchymy. He possessed
an invaluable collection of Arabian manuscripts on
his favourite science, and studied them with such
unremitting industry that he foand he had not
sufficient time to attend to his crucibles and fur-
naces.without neglecting his books. He was look-
ing about for an assistant when Balsamo oppor-
tunely presented himself, and made so favourable
an impression that he was at once engaged in that
capacity. But the relation of master and servant
did not long subsist between them; Balsamo was
too ambitious and too clever to play a secondary
part, and within fi~een days of their first ac-
quaintance they were bound together as friends
and partners. Altotas, in the course of a long
life devoted to alchymy, had stumbled upon some
valuable discoveries in chemistry, one of which was
an ingredient for improving the manufacture of
flax, and imparting to goods of that material a
gloss and softness almost equal to silk. Balsamo
gave him the good advice to leave the philosopher's
stone for the present undiscovered, and make gold
THE ALCHYMISTS. iii
out of their flax. The advice was taken, and· they
proceeded together to Alexandria to trade, with a
large stock of that article. They stayed forty days
in Alexandria, and gained a considerable sum by
their venture. They afterwards visited other cities
in Egypt, and were equally successful. They also
visited Turkey, where they sold drugs and amulets.
On their return to Europe, they were driven by
stress of weather into Malta, and were hospitably
received by Pinto, the Grand Master ofthe Knights,
and a famous alchymist. They worked in his la-
boratory for some months, and tried hard to change
a pewter-platter into a silver one. Balsamo, hav-
ing less faith than his companions, was sooner wea.
ried ; and obtaining from his host many letters of
introduction to Rome and Naples, he left him and
Altotas to find the philosopher's stone and trans-
mute the pewter-platter without him.
He had long since dropped the name of Balsamo
on account of the many ugly associations that clung
to it; and during his travels had assumed at least
half a score others, with titles annexed to them.
He called himself sometimes the Chevalier de
Fischio, the Marquis de Melissa, the Baron de Bel-
monte, de Pelligrini, d'Auna, de Fenbc, de Harat,
but most commonly the Count de Cagliostro. Under
the latter title he entered Rome., and never after-
wards changed it. In this city he gave himself
out as the restorer of the Rosicrucian philosophy;
said be could transmute all metals into gold; that
1\ '
THE ALCHYMISTS.
he could render himself invisible, cure all diseases,
and administer an elixir against old age and decay.
His letters from the Grand Master Pinto procured
him an introduction into the best families. He
made money rapidly by the sale of his tli.rir vita;
and, like other quacks, performed many remark-
able cures by inspiring his patients with the moat
complete faith and reliance upon his powers ; an
advantage which the most impudent charlatans
often possess over the regular practitioner.
While thus in a fair way of making his fortune
he became acquainted with the beautiful Lorenza
Feliciana, a young lady of noble birth, but without
fortune. Cagliostro soon discovered that she pos-
sessed accomplishments that were invaluable. Be-
aides her ravishing beauty, she had the readiest
wit, the most engaging manners, the most feTtile
imagination, and the least principle of any of the
maidens of Rome. She was just the wife for Cag-
liostro, whQ proposed himself to her, and was ac-
cepted. After their marriage, he instructed his
fair Lorenza in all the secrets of his calling -
taught her pretty lips to invoke angels, and
genii, sylphs, salamanders, and undines, and, when
need required, devils and evil spirits. Lorenza
was an apt scholar: she soon learned all the jar-
gon of the alchymists and all the spells of the
enchanters ; and thus accomplished the hopeful
pair set out on their travels, to levy contributions
on the superstitious and the credulous.
THE ALCHYMISTS.
They first went to Sleswig on a visit to the
Oount de St. Germain, their great predecessor in
the art of making dupes, and were re<:eived by him
in the most magnificent manner. They no doubt
fortified their minds for the career they had chosen,
by the sage discourse of that worshipful gentleman ;
for immediately after they left him, they began their
operations. They travelled for three or four years
• in Russia, Poland, and Germany, transmuting me-
tals, telling fortunes, raising spirits, and selling the
eli.2:ir vita wherever they went ; but there is no
record of their doings from whence to draw a more
particular detail. It was not until they made their
appearance in England in 1776, that the names of
the Count and Countess di Cagliostro began to ac-
quire a European reputation. They arrived in
London in the July of that year, possessed of pro-
perty in plate, jewels, and specie to the amount of
about three thousand pounds. . They hired apart-
ments in Whitcombe-street, and lived for some
months quietly. In the same house there lodged
a Portuguese woman named Blavary, who, being
in necessitous circumstances, was engaged by the
Count as interpreter. She was constantly admitted
into his laboratory, where he spent much of his
time in search of the philosopher's stone. She
spread abroad the fame of her entertainer in return
for his hospitality, and laboured hard to impress
everybody with as full a belief in his extraordinary
powers as she felt herself. But as a female inter-
THE ALCRYMISTS.
preter of the rank and appearance of Madame
Blavary did not exactly correspond with the Count's
notions either of dignity or decorum, he hired a
person named Vitellini, a teacher of languages, to
act in that capacity. Vitellini was a desperate
gambler ; a man who had tried almost every re-
source to repair his ruined fortunes, including among
the rest the search for the philosopher's stone.
Immediately that be saw the Count's operations, •
he was convinced that the great secret was his, and
that the golden gates of the palace of fortune were
open to let him in. With still more enthusiasm
than Madame Blavary, he held forth to his ac-
quaintance, and in all public places, that the Count
was an extraordinary man, a true adept, whose for-
tune was immense, and who could transmute into
pure and solid gold, as much lead, iron, and cop-
per as he pleased. The consequence was, that the
house of Cagliostro was besieged by crowds of the
idle, the credulous, and the avaricious, all eager to
obtain a sight of the u philosopher," or to share in
the boundless wealth which he could call into ex-
istence.
Unfortunately for Cagliostro, he had fallen into
evil hands ; instead of duping the people of Eng-
land as he might have done, he became himself the
victim of a gang of swindlers, who, with the fullest
reliance on his occult powers, only sought to make
money of him. Vitellini introduced to him a ruined
gambler like himself, named Scot, whom he repre-
THE ALCHYMISTS. 225
sented as a Scottish nobleman, attt·acted to London
solely by his desire to see and converse with the
extraordinary man whose fame had spread to the
distant mountains of the north. Cagliostro re~
ceived him with great kindness and cordiality ; and
"Lord" Scot thereupon introduced a woman named
Fry, as Lady Scot, who was to act as chaperone to
the Countess di Cagliostro, and make her acquaint-
. ed with all the noble families of Britain. Thus
things went swimmingly. "His lordship," whose
effects had not arrived from Scotland, and who had
no banker in London, borrowed two hundred
pounds of the Count ; they were lent without
scruple, so flattered was Cagliostro by the atten-
tions they paid him, the respect, nay, veneration
they pretended to feel for him, and the complete
deference with which they listened to every word
- that fell from his lips.
Superstitious, like all desperate gamesters, Scot
had often tried magical and cabalistic numbers, in
the hope of discovering lucky numbers in the lot-
tery, or at the roulette tables. He had in his
possession a cabalistic manuscript, containing vari-
ous arithmetical combinations of the kind, which
be submitted to Cagliostro, with an urgent request
that he would select a number. Cag1iostro took
the manuscript and studied it ; but, as he himself
informs us, with no confidence in its truth. He
however predicted twenty as the successful number
for the 6th of November following. Scot ventured
VOL. IU. Q
1\
226 THE AJ.CBYMISTS.
a small sum upon this number, out of the two hun-
dred pounds he had borrowed, and won. Caglios-
tro, incited by this success, prognosticated number
twenty-five for the next drawing. Scot tried again,
and won a hundred guineas. The numbers fifty-
five and fifty-seven were announced with equal
success for the 18th of the same month, to the
no small astonishment and delight of Cagliostro,
who thereupon resolved to try fortune for himself,
and not for others. To all the entreaties of Scot
and his lady that he would predict more numbers
for them, he turned a deaf ear, even while he
still thought him a lord and a man of honour. But
when he discovered that he was a mere swindler,
and the pre'tended Lady Scot an artful woman of
the town, he closed his door upon them and on aU
their gang.
Having complete faith in the supernatural pow-
ers of the Count, they were in the deepest dis-
tress at having lost his countenance. They tried
by every means their ingenuity could suggest, to
propitiate him again ; they implored, they threat-
ened, and endeavoured to bribe him. But all was
vain. Cagliostro would neither see nor correspond
with them. In the mean time they lived extrava-
gantly ; and in the hope of future, exhausted all
their present gains. They were reduced to the
last extremity, when Miss Fry obtained access to
the Countess, and received a guinea from her on
the representation that she was starving. Miss
THE ALCHYMISTS.
Fry, no't contented with this, begged her to inter-
cede with her husband, that for the last time he
would point out a lucky number in the lottery.
The Countess promised to exert her influence, and
Cagliostro thus entreated, named the number
eight, at the same time reiterating his determina-
tion to have no more to do with any of them. By
an extraordinary hazard, which filled Cagliostro
with surprise and pleasure, number eight was the
greatest prize in the lottery. Miss Fry and her
associates cleared fifteen hundred guineas by the
adventure ; and became more than ever convinced
of the occult powers of Cagliostro, and strength-
ened in their determination never to quit him until
they had made their fortunes. Out ofthe proceeds,
Miss Fry bought a handsome necklace at a pawn-
brokers for ninety guineas. She then ordered a
richly chased gold box, having two compartments,
to be made at a jeweller's, and putting the neck-
lace in the one, filled the other with a fine aromatic
sn1:1ff. She then sought another interview with
Madame di Cagliostro, and urged her to accept the
box as a sma11 token of her esteem and gratitude,
without mentioning the valuable necklace that was
concealed in it. Madame di Cagliostro accepted
the present, and was from that hour exposed to the
most incessant persecution from all the confede-
rates, Blavary, Vitellini, and the pretended Lord
and Lady Scot. They flattered themselves they
had regained their lost footing in the house, and
Q2
1\ I
228 THE ALCHYMJSTS.
came day after day to know lucky numbers in the
lottery; sometimes forcing themselves up the stairs,
and into the Count's laboratory, in spite of the
efforts of the servants to prevent them. Cagliostro,
exasperated at their pertinacity, threatened to call
in the assistance of the magistrates; and taking
Miss Fry by the shoulders, pushed her into the
street.
From that time may be dated the misfortunes of
Cagliostro. Miss Fry, at the instigation of her
paramour, determined on vengeance.· Her first act
was to swear a debt of two hundred pounds against
Cagliostro, and to cause him to be arrested for that
sum. While he was in custody in a sponging
house, Scot, accompanied by a low attorney, broke
into his laboratory, and carried off a small box,
containing, as they believed, the powder of trans-
mutation, and a number of cabalistic manuscripts
and treatises upon alchymy. They also brought
an action against him for the recovery of the neck-
lace ; and Miss Fry accused both him and his
Countess of sorcery and witchcraft, and of foretell-
ing numbers in the lottery by the aid of the devil.
This latter charge was actually heard before Mr.
Justice Miller. The action of trover for the neck-
lace was tried before the Lord Chief Justice of the
Common Pleas, who recommended the parties to
submit to arbitration. In the mean time Cagliostro
remained in prison fot· several weeks, till having
procured bail, he was liberated. He was soon after
TilE ALCHYMISTS. 229
waited upon by an attorney named Reynolds, also
deep in the plot, who offered to compromise all the
actions upon certain conditions. Scot, who had
accompanied him, concealed himself behind the
door, and suddenly rushing out, presented a pistol
at the heart of Cagliostro, swearing he would shoot
him instantly, if he would not tell him truly the
art of predicting lucky numbers, and of transmuting
metals. Reynolds pretending to be very angry,
disarmed his accomplice, and entreated the Count
to satisfy them by fair means, and disclose bis se-
crets, promising that if he would do so, they would
discharge all the actions, and offer him no further
molestation. Cagliostro replied, that threats and
entreaties were alike useless; that he knew no
secrets ; and that the powder of transmutation of
which they had robbed him, was of no value to
anybody but himself. He offered, however, if they
would discharge the actions, and return the powder
and the manuscripts, he would forgive them all the
~oney they had swindled him out of. These con-
ditions were refused ; and Scot and Reynolds de·
parted, swearing vengeance against him.
Cagliostro appears to have been quite ignorant
of the forms of law in England, and to have been
without a friend to advise him as to the best course
he should pursue. While he was conversing with -
his Countess on the difficulties that beset them,
one ofhis bail called, and invited him to ride in a
hackney coach to the house of a person who would
1\
280 TilE ALCIIYMlSTS.
see him .righted. Cagliostro consented, and was
driven to the King's Bench prison, where his friend
left him. He did not discover for several hours
that be was a prisoner, or in fact understand the
process of being surrendered by one's bail.
He regained his liberty in a few weeks ; and the
arbitrators between bim and Miss Fry, made their
award against him. He was ordered to pay the
two hundred pounds she had sworn against him,
and to restore the necklace and gold box which had
been presented to the Countess. Cagliostro was
so disgusted, that he determined to quit England.
His pretensions, besides, had been unmercifully ex-
posed by a Frenchman, named Morande, the Editor
of the Courier de f Europe, published in London.
To add to his distress, he was recognised in West-
minster Hall, as Joseph Balsamo, the swindler of
Palermo. Such a complication of disgrace was not
to be borne. He and his Countess packed up their
small effects, and left England with no more than
fifty pounds, out of the three thousand they had
brought with them.
They first proceeded to Brussels, where fortune
was more ausp1c1ous. They sold considerable
quantities of the elixir of life, performed many
cures, and recruited their finances. They then
took tbeir course through Germany to Russia,
and alwnys with the same success. Gold flowed
. .
into their coffers faster than they could count
it. They quite. forgot all the woes they had
THE ALCHYMISTS. ~31
endured in England, and learned to be more cir-
cumspect in the choice of their acquaintance.
In the year 1780, they made their appearance in
Strasbourg. Their fame had reached that city
before them. They took a :magn.ificent hotel, and
invited all the principal persons of the place to
their table. Their wealth appeared to be bound-
less, and their hospitality equal to it. Both the
Count. and Countess acted as ,physicians, and gave
money, advice, and medicine to all the necessitous
and suffering of the town. Many of the cures they
perfm:med, astonished those regular practitioners
who did not make sufficient allowance for the won-
derful influence of imagination in certain cases.
The Countess, who at this time was not more tban
five-and-twenty, and an radiant with grace, beauty,
and cheerfulness, spoke openly of her eldest son as
a fine young man of eight-and-twenty, who had
been for some years a captain in the Dutch service.
The trick succeeded to admiration. All the ugly
old women in Strasbourg, and for miles around,
thronged the saloon of the Countess to purchase
the liquid which was to make them as blooming as
their daughters ; the young women came in equal
abundance that they might preserve their charms, ,1
and when twice as old as Ninon de L'Enclos, be
more captivating than she; while men were not
wanting fools enough to imagine, that they might
keep off the inevitable stroke of the grim foe, by a
few drops of the same incomparable elixir. The
1\
THE ALCHYMISTS.
Countess, sooth to say, looked like an incarnation
of immortal loveliness, a very goddess of youth and
beauty ; and it is possible that the crowds of young
men and old, who at all convenient seasons haunt-
ed the perfumed chambers of this enchantress, were
attracted less by their belief in her occult powers
than from admiration of her languishing bright
eyes and sparkling conversation. But ainid all the
incense that was offered at her shrine, Madame di
Cagliostro was ever faithful to her spouse. She
encouraged hopes, it is true, but she never realised
them ; she excited admiration, yet kept it within
bounds ; and made men her slaves, without ever
granting a favour of which the vainest might boast.
In this city they made the acquaintance of many
eminent persons, and among others, of the Cardinal
Prince de Rohan, who was destined afterwards to
exercise so untoward an influence over their fate.
The Cardinal, who seems to have had great faith
in him as a philosopher, persuaded him to visit
Paris in his company, which he did, but remained
only thirteen days. He preferred the society of
Strasbourg, and returned thither, with the inten-
tion of fixing his residence far from the capital.
But he soon found that the first excitement of his
arrival had passed away. People began to reason
with themselves, and to be ashamed of their own
admiration. The populace, among whom he had
lavished his charity with a bountiful hand, accused
him of being the Antichrist, the Wandering Jew,
1\
THE ALCHYMISTS. 233
the man of fourteen hundred years of age, a demon
in human shape, sent to lure the ignorant to their
destruction ; while the more opulent and better
informed called him a spy in the pay of foreign
governments, an agent of the police, a swindler,
and a man of evil life. The outcry grew at last so
strong, that he deemed it prudent to ~ry his for-
tune elsewhere.
He went first to Naples, but that city was too
near Palermo ; he dreade4 recognition from some
of his early friends, and after a short stay, returned
to France. Re chose Bordeaux as his next dwelling-
place, and created as great a sensation there as he
had done iu Strasbourg. He announced himself as
the founder of a new school of medicine and philo-
sophy, boasted of his ability to cure all diseases,
and invited the poor and suffering to visit him, and
be would relieve the distress of the one class, and
cure the ailings of the other. All day long the
street opposite his magnificent hotel was crowded
by the populace ; the halt and the blind, women
with sick babes in their arms, and persons sufFering
under every species of human infirmity flocked to
this wonderful doctor. The relief he afForded in
money mor.e than counterbalanced the failure of his
nostrums ; and the affluence of people from all the
surrounding country became so great, that the
jU1·ats of the city granted him a military guard, to
be stationed day and night before his door, to keep
order. The anticipations of Cagliostro were real-
\ l I I
•
THE ALCHYMISTS.
ised. The rich were struck with admiration ofhis
charity and benevolence, and impressed with a full
conviction of his marvellous powers. The sale of
the elixir went on admirably. .His saloons wer~
thronged with wealthy dupes who came to.purchase
immortality. Beauty, that would endure for cen-
turies, was ~be attractionfor the fair sex ; health and
strength for the same period were the baits held out
to the other. His charming Countess in the mean-
time brought grist to the mill, by telling fortunes
and casting nativities, or granting attendant sylphs
to any ladies who would pay sufficiently for their
services. What was still better, as tending to keep
up the credit of her husband, she gave the most
magnificent parties in Bordeaux.
But as at Strasbourg the popular delusion lasted
for a few months only, and burned itself out;
Cagliostro forgot, in the intoxication of success,
that there was a limit to quackery, which once
passed, inspired distrust. When he pretended to
call spirits from the tomb, people became incre-
dulous. He was accused of being an enemy to
religion - of denying Christ, and of being the
Wandering Jew. He despised these rumours as
long as they were confined to a few ; but when
they spread over the town- when he received no
more fees-when his parties wel'e abandoned, and
his acquaintance turned away when they met him
in the street, he thought it high t.ime to shift
his quarters.
~ 1\ I
THE ALCHYM lSTS. 235
He was by this time wearied of the provinces,
and turned his thoughts to the capital. On his
arrival, he announced himself' as the restorer of
Egyptian Freemasonry and the founder of a new
philosophy. He immediately made his way into
the best society by means of his friend the Cardi-
nal de Rohan. His success· as a magician was
quite extraordinary : the most considerable per-
sons of the time visited him. He boasted.of being
able, like the Rosicrucians, to converse with the
elementary spirits ; to invoke. the mighty dead
from the grave, to transmute metals, and to dis-
cover occult things, by means of the special pro-
tection of God towards him. Like Dr. Dee, he
summoned the angels to reveal th~ future ; and
they appeared, and conversed with him in crystals
and under glass bells.• "There was hardly," says
the Biographie des Contemporains, " a fine lady in
Paris who would not sup with the shade of Lu-
cretius in the apartments of Cagliostro - a mili-
tary officer who would not discuss the art of war
with Cesar, Hannibal, or-Alexander; Ol' an advo-
cate or counsellor who would not argue legal
points with the ghost of Cicero.» These inter-
views with the departed were very expensive; for,
as Cagliostro said, the dead would not rise for
nothing. The Countess, as usual, exercised all
her ingenuity to support her husband's credit. She
• See the Abbe Fiard, and " Anecdotes of the .Reign of Louis
XVI." P· 400.
1\
286 THE ALCHYMlSTS.
was a great favourite with her own sex; to many a
delighted and wondering auditory of whom she de-
tailed the marvellous powers of Cagliostro. She
said he could render himself invisible, traverse the
world with the rapidity of thought, and be in seve·
ral places at the same time.•
He had not been long at Paris before be became
invobed in the celebrated affair of the Queen's
necklace. His friend, the Cardinal de Rohan,
enamoured·of the charms of Marie Antoinette, was
in sore distress at her coldness, and the displeasure
she had so often manifested against him. There
was at that time a lady, named La Motte, in the
service of the Queen, of whom the Cardinal was
foolish enough to make a confidant. Madame de
la Motte, in return, endeavoured to make a tool
of the Cardinal, and succeeded but ·too well in
her projects. In her capacity of chamber-woman,
or lady of honour to the Queen, she was present
at an interview between her Majesty and M.
Boehmer, a wealthy jeweller of Paris, when the
latter offered for sale a magnificent diamond neck-
lace, valued at 1,600,000 francs, or about 64,0001.
sterling. The Queen admired it greatly, but dis.
missed the jeweller, with the expression of her
regret that she was too poor to purchase it. Ma-
dame de Ia Motte formed a plan to get this costly
• tt B1ographie des Contemporains," article "Cagliostro." See
also "Hietoire de la M~e en France," par M. Jules Garinet,
p. 284.
THE ALCHYMISTS, 237
ornament into her own possession, and determined
to make the Cardinal de Rohan the instrument by
which to effect it. She therefore sought an inter--
view with him, and pretending to :Sympathise in
his grief for the Queen's displeasure, told him she
knew a way by which he might be restored to
favour. She then mentioned the necklace., and
the sorrow of the Queen that she could not afford
to buy it. The Cardinal, who was as wealthy as
he was foolish, immediately offered to purchase
the necklace, and make a present of it to the
Queen. Madame de la Motte told him by no
means to do so, as he would thereby offend her
Majesty. His plan would be to induce the jeweller
to give her Majesty credit, and accept her pro-
missory note for the amount at a certain date, to
be hereafter agreed upon. The Cardinal readily
agreed to the proposal, and instructed the jeweller
to draw up an agreement, and he would procure
the Queen's signature. He placed this in the
hands of Madame de la Motte, who returned it
shortly afterwards, with the words, a Bon, bon -
approuve- Marie Antoinette," written in the mar-
gin. She told him at the same time that the
Queen was highly pleased with his conduct in
the matter, and would appoint a meeting with him
in the gardens of Versailles, when she would pre-
sent him with a flower, as a token of her regard.
The Cardinal showed the forged document to the
jeweller, obtained the necklace, and delivered it
1\
288 THE ALCHYMISTS.
into the hands of Madame de Ia Motte. So far
all was well. Her next object was to satisfy the
Cardinal, who awaited impatiently the promised
interview with his royal mistress. There was at
that time in Paris a young woman named D'Oliva,
noted for her resemblance to the Queen; and Ma-
dame de la Motte, on the promise of a handsome
reward, found no difficulty in persuading her to
personate Marie Antoinette, and meet the Cardi-
nal de Rohan at the evening twilight in the gar-
dens of Versailles. The meeting took place ac-
cordingly. The Catdinal was deceived by the un-
certain light, the great resemblance of ~he counter-
feit, and his own hopes ; and having received the
flower from Mademoiselle D'Oliva, went home with
a lighter heart than had beat in his bosom for
many a day.•
In the course of time the forgery of fhe Queen's
signature was discovered. Boehmer the jeweller
immediately named the Cardinal de Rohan and
Madame de la Motte as the persons with whom he
bad negotiated, and they were both arrested and
thrown into the Bastille. La Motte was, subjected
* The enemies of the unfortunate Queen of France, when the
progress of the Revolution embittered their animosity against her,
maintained that she was really a party in this transaction; that
she, and not Mademoiselle D'Oliva, met the Cardinal and reward-
ed him with the flower ; and that the story above related was
merely concocted between her, La Motte, and others to cheat the
jeweller ofhis 1,600,000 francs.
TUE ALCHYMISTS. 289
to a rigorous examination, and the d.isclosurea slie
made implicating CagJiostro, he was seized, along
with his wife, and also sent to the ·Bastille. A
story involving so much scandal necessarily ex·
cited great curiosity. Nothing was to be heard·
of in Paris but the Queen's necklace, with surmises
of the guilt or innocence of the several parties
implicated. The husband of Madame de la Motte
escaped to England, and in the opinion of many
took the necklace with him, and there disposed
of it to ~iff'erent jewellers in small quantities at
a time. But Madame de la Motte insisted that
she had entrusted it to Cagliostro, who had seized
and taken it to pieces, to 11
swell the treasures of
his immense unequalled fortune!' She spoke of
him as u an empiric, a mean alchymist, a dreamer
on the philosopher's stone, a false prophet, a pro-
faner of the true worship, the self-dubbed Count
Cagliostro!, She further said that he originally
conceived the project of ruining the Cardinal de
Rohan; that he persuaded her, by the exercise of
some magic influence over her mind, to aid and
abet the scheme-; and that he was a robber, a
swindler, and a sorcerer !
After all the accused parties had remained for
upwards of six months in the Bastille, the trial com-
menced. The depositions of the witnesses having
been heard, Cagliostro, as the principal culprit, was
first called upon for his defence. He was listened to
240 THE ALCHYMISTS.
with the most breathless attention. He put himself
into a theatrical attitude, and thus began:-u I am
oppressed! -lam accused!- I am calumniated!
Have I deserved this fate 1 I descend into my
conscience, and I there find the peace that men
refuse me! I have travelled a great deal- I am
known over all Europe, and a great part of Asia
and Africa. I have everywhere shown myself the
friend of my fellow-creatures. My knowledge, my
time, my fortune have ever been employed in the
relief of distress I I have studied and practised
medicine, but I have never degraded that most no-
ble and most consoling of arts by mercenary spe-
culations of any kind. Though always giving, and
never receiving, I have preserved my independence.
I have even carried my delicacy so far as to re-
fuse the favours of kings. I have given gratuitous-
ly my remedies and my advice to the rich: the
poor have received from me both remedies and
money. I have never contracted any debts, and
my manners are pure and uncorrupted." After
much more self-laudation of the same kind, he
went on to complain of the great hardships he
bad endured in being separated for so many months
from his innocent and loving wife, who, as he was
given to understand, had been detained in the
Bastille, and perhaps chained in an unwholesome
dungeon. He denied unequivocally that he had
the necklace, or that he had ever seen it; and to
silence the rumours and accusations against him,
THE' ALCHYMISTS.
·which "his' own ·secrecy with regard to the events
of his life had perba.ps originated, he expressed
himself ready tO: satisfy'the curiosity of the public,
and to give a plain and full account of his car~er.
He then told a romantic and incredible' tale, which
imposed upori .no one. He said be neither knew
the place of his birth nor the name of his parents·,
·but that he spent his infancy in Medina in Arabia,
.and was brought up under the name of Acharat.
He lived in the palace of the Great Muphti in that
city, and always had three servants to wait upon
him, besides his preceptor, named Althotas. This
Althotas was very fond of him, and told him that
his father and mother, who were Christians and
nobles, died· when he was three months 9ld, and
left him in the care of the Muphti. He could
never, he said, ascertain their names, for whenever
he asked A1thotas the question, he was told ·that
it would be dangerous for bini to know. Some
incautious expressions dropped by his preceptor
gave him reason to think they were from Malta. At
the age of twelve he began his travels, and·learned
the various languages of the East. He remained
three years- in 'Mecca, where the Cherif, or gover-
nor, showed him so much kindness, and spoke to him
so tenderly and affectionately, that be sometimes
thought that personage was his father. He quitted
this good man·with tears hi his eyes, and never saw
him afterwards; but he was convinced that be was,
even at that moment~ indebted to his care for' ali the
VOL. Ill. R
THE A"LCHYMISTS.
advantages he enjoyed. Wheneverhe arrived in·any
city, either of Europe or Asia, he found an account
opened for him at the principal bankers' or mer-
chants'. He could draw upon them to the amount
:of thousands and hundreds of thousands; and no
questions were ever asked beyond his name. He
had only to mention the word Acbarat, and all his
wants were supplied. He firmly believed that the
Cheri£ ofMecca was the friend to whom all was OW"·
ing. This was the secret of his wealth, and he had
.no occasion to resort to swindling for a livelihood.
It was not worth his while to steal a diamond
necklace when be had wealth enough to purchase
as tnany as he pleased, and more magnificent ones
ihan bad ever been worn by ·a Queen of France.
As to the other charges brought againit him by
Madame de Ia Motte, he had but a short answer
to give. She had called him an empiric. He wu
not unfamiliar with the word. If it meant a mati
who, without being a physician, had some know.:.
ledge of medicine, and took no fees- who cured
both rich and poor, and took no moneyfrom either,
he confessed that h'e was such a man; that he w88
an empiric. She bad also called him a mean al-
chymist. Whether he were an alcbymiat or not,
the epithet mean could only be applied to those
who begged and cringed, and be bad nenr done
either. As regarded his .being a dreamer about
the philosopher's stone, whatever his opinions upon
that subject might be., be bad been silent, and had
\ 1\
'THE ALCRYMISTS.
never troubled the public with his dreams. Then,
as to his being a false prophet, he had not al-
ways been so ; for he had prophesied to the Car-
dinal de Rohan that Madame de Ia Motte would
pr()ve a dangerous woman, and the result had veri-
fied the prediction. He denied that he was a pro-
faner ofthe tnle·worship, or that he had ever striven
to bring religion into contempt; on the contrary,
he respected every man's religion, and never med-
dled with it. He also denied that he was a Rosi-
crucian, or that he had ever pretended to be three
hundred years of age, or to have bad one man
in his service for a hundred and fifty years. In
conc!usiob, he said every statement that Madame
de Ia Motte bad made regarding him was false,
and that abe was mentiril impudentissime, which
two words be begged her counsel to translate
for her, as it waa not polite to tell her so in
French.
Such was the aubstance of his extraordinary an-
swer to the charges against him ; an answer which
convinced those who were before doubtful that he
was one of the moat impudent impostors that had
ever run the career of deception. Counsel were
then heard on behalf of the Cardinal de Rohan and
Madame ·de la Motte. It appearing clearly that
the Cardinal was himself the dupe of a vile con..:
spiracy ; and there be.ing no evidence against Ca-
gliostro, they were both acquitted. Madame de Ia
Motte wu found guilty, and sentenced to be pub-
B.i
1\
THE ALCHYMISTS;
licly whipped, and branded with a· Jiot uon on
.the back.
Cagliostro and his wife were then discharged
from custody. On applying to the officers of the
Bastille for the papers and effects which had been
seized at his lodgings, he found that many of them
had been abstracted. He thereupon brought an
action against them.for the recovery of his MSS.
and a small portion of the powder of transmuta-
tion. Before the affair could be decided, ·he' re-
ceived orders to quit Paris within four-and-twenty
hours. Fearing that if he were once mor.e inclosed
in the dungeons of the Bastille be should never
see daylight again, he took his departure imme-
diately and .proceeded to England. On bis.arrival
in London he made the acquaintance of the no-t
t.orious Lord George Gordon, who. espoused his
cause.warmly, and insert.
ed a letter in the public
papers, animadverting upon the conduct . of the
Queen of France in the affair of·tbe ·necklace, and
asserting thaishe was really the guilty party. For.·
this. letter Lord George was exposed to.a prosecu'-
tion at the instance of the French Ambassador.....;.
found guilty of libel, and sentenced to tine and a·
long imprisonment.
Cagliostro and the Countess afterwards travelled'
in Italy, where they were arrested by the Papal
Government in 1789, and condemned to ~eath.
T.he charges against him were, that be was a free--
mason., a heretic, and a sorcerer., This unjustifi-.
THE ALCH YMISTS:
able sentence was afterwards commuted into one
of perpetual imprisonment in the Castle of St. An-
gelo. His wife was allowed to escape severer pu-
nishment by immuring herself in a nunnery. Ca.o
gliostro did not long survive. The loss· of liberty
preyed upon his mind-accumulated misfortunes
had injured his health and broken his spirit, and
he died early in 1790. His fate may have been
no better than be deserved, but it is impossible not
to feel that his sentence foT the crimes assigned was
utterly ·disgraceful to the government · that pro--
nounced it.
PRESENT STATE OF ALCHYHY.
We have now finished the list of the persons who
have most distinguished themselves in this foolish
and unprofitable pursuit. Among ·tliem are men
of all ranks, characters, and conditions ; the truth-
seeking, but erring philosopher; the ambitious
prince and the needy noble, who have believed in
it; as well as the designing charlatan, who has not
believed in it, but has merely made the pretension
to it the means of cheating his fellows, and living
upon their credulity. One or more of all these
classes will be found in the foregoing pages. It
will be seen, from the record of their lives, that the
delusion, humiliating as it was to human intellect,
was not altogether without its uses. Men, in
striving to-gain too much, do not always overreach
themselve11 : ifthey cannot arrive at the inaccessible
1\
THE .A.LCHYMISTS.
mountain-top, they may, perhaps, get half way to..
warda it, and pick up some scraps of wisdom and
knowledge on the road. The uaeful science of.che-
mistry is not a little indebted to ita spurious brother
of alchymy. Many vpluable discoveries have been
made in that search for the impossible, which might
otherwise have been hidden for centuries yet to
come. Roger Bacon, in searching for the philo-
sopher's stone, discovered gunpowder, a still more
extraordinary substance. Van Belmont, in the
aame pursuit, di$covered the properties of gas ;
Geber made discoveries in chemistry which were.
equally important; and Paracelsus, amidst his per·
petual visions of the transmutation of metals, found
that mercury was a remedy for one of the most
odious "nd excruciating of all the diseases ~hat
afflict humanity.
In our day, no mention is made in Europe of any
new devo~es of the science. The belief in witch-
craft, which is &carcely more absurd, still lingers
in the popular mind : but none are so credulous aa
to believe that any elixir could make man live for
centuries, or turn all our iron and pewter into gold.
Alchymy, in Europe, may be .said to be wholly ex-
ploded ; but in the East it still flourishes in as
great repute as ever. Recent travellers make con-
stant mention ofit, especially in China, Hindostal),
Persia, Tarquoy, Egypt, and Arabia.
i47
BOOK 11.
FORTUNE TELLING.
And men still grope t' anticipate
The cabinet designs ofFate;
Apply to wizarda to foresee
What shall and what shall never be.
Hudibrtu, part ill. canto 3.
IN accordance with the .plan laid down in the
introduction to this volume, we proceed to the con.;
sideration of the follies into which men have been
led by their eager desire to pierce the thick ·dark.,.
ness of futurity. God himself, for his own wise
purposes, has more than once undrawn the im-
penetrable veil which shroudJ those awful secrets;
and, for purposes just as wise, he has decreed that,
except in these instances, ignorance shall be our lot
for ever. It is happy for man that he does not
know what the morrow iJ to bring forth ; but, un.
aware of this great blessing, he has, in all age. of
the world, presumptuously endeavoured to trace
the events of unborn centuries, and anticipate the
1\
248 FORTUNE TELLING.
march of time. He has reduced this presumption
into a study. He has divided it into sciences aud
systems without number, employing his whole life
in the vain pursuit. Upon no subject bas it been
so easy to deceive the world as upon this. In
every breast the curiosity exists in a greater or less
degree, and can only be conquered by a long course
of self-examination, and a firm reliance that the
future would not be hidden from our sight, if it
were right that we should be acquainted with it.
An undue opinion of our own importance in the
scale of creation is at the bottom of all our un-
warrantable notions in this respect. How flatter-
ing to the pride of man to think that the stars in
their courses ~atch over him, and typify, by their
movements and aspects, the joys or the sorrows
that await him ! He, less in proportion to .the
universe than the all but invisible insects that feed
in myriads on a summer's leaf, are to this great
globe itself, fondly imagines that eternal worlds
were chiefly created to prognosticate his fate.
How w.e should pity the arrogance of the worm
that crawls at our feet, if we knew that it also de-
sired to know the secrets of futurity, and imagined
that meteors shot athwart the sky to warn it that a
tom-tit was hovering near to gobble it up ; that
storms and earthquakes, the revolutions of empires,
or the fall of mighty monarchs, only happened to
predict its birth; its progress, and its decay! Not
a whit l~ss presuming has man shown himself;. not
FORTUNE ·TELLING.
a whit less arrogant are the sciences, so 'called, of
astrology, augury, necromancy, geomancy, palmis-
try, and divination of every kind.
Leaving out of view the oracles of pagan an-
tiquity and religious predictions in general, and
confining ourselves solely to the persons who, irt
modern times, have made . themselves most con-
spicuous in foretelling the future, we shall find that
the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries were the
golden age of these imposto~:s. Many of them
have been already ·mentioned in their character of
alchymists. The union of the two pretensions is
not at all surprising. It was to be expected that
those who assumed a power so preposterous $S that
of prolonging the life of man for several c~nturies,
should pretend, at the same. time, to foretell the
events which were to mark that preternatural span
of existe.nce. The world would as readily believe
that they had discovered all secrets, as that they
had only discover~d one. The most celebrated
astrologers of Europe, three centuries ago, were
alchymists. Agrippa, Paracelsus, Dr. Dee, and the
Rosicrucians, all laid as much stress UJlOD their
knowledge of the days to come, as upon their pre-
tended possession of the philosopher's stone and
the elixir of life. In their time, ideas of the won-
derful, the diabolical, and the supernatural, were
rifer than ever they were before. The devil or the
~tars were universally believed to meddle constantly
in the affairs of men ; and both were to be con-
1\
250 I'.ORTUNE TELLING.
aulted with proper ceremonies. Those who wera
of a melancholy and gloomy temperament betook
themselves to necromancy and sorcery ; thoee more
cheerf't\1 and aspiring, devoted tbetnaelves to astro-
logy. The latter science was encouraged by all thct
moparchs and governments of that age. In Eng~
land, from the time of Elizabeth to that ofWilliam
aod Mary, judici~ astrology was in high repute~
During that period 1louriahed Drs. Dee, Lamb, an£)
Forman.; with Lilly, Booker, Ga<lbury, Evans, and
scores of nameless impostors in every considerabl~
town and village in the country, who made it theit
btuinesa to c~t nativities, aid in the recovery of
Jtolen goods, prognosticate happy or unhappy mar-
.riages, predict whether journeys would be pros-
perous, and note lucky moments for the commence-
ment of any enterprise, from the setting up of ~
cobler's shop to the marching of an army. Meq
who, to use the words of Butler, di<l
(<Deal in Destiny's dark counsel,
And sage opinion ofthe moon sell;
To whom all people Car and near
On deep importance did repair,
When brass and pewter pots did stray,
'And linen slunk out of the way."
In Lilly's Memoirs of his Life and Times, there
are many notices of the inferior quacks who then
abounded, and upon whom he pretended to look
down witb supreme contempt ; not because they
we.r~ Ntr.Qlogttrs, .but b~~au~e they ~e~ued ~~
FOltTU!f.£ TJ.LLINO. Ul
noble art by taking fees for the recovery of atolen
property. From_
Butler's Hudibras and its euriou•
notes, we may learn what immenae numbers of
these fellows lived upon the credulity of mankind
in that: age of witchcraft and diablerie. Even
in our day how great ia the reputation enjoyed
by the almanac-makers, who PSsume the name of
Francia Moore. But in the time of Charles I. and
the Commonwealth, the most learned, the mQSt
noble, and the most conspic\lOUB characters did not
hesitate to consult astrologers jn the moat opeu
~Qanner. Lilly, whom Butler has immortalized
under the name of Sydrophel, relates, that he pro.
posed to write a work called "An Introduction
to Astrology," in which he would satisfy the whole
kingdo01 of the lawfulness of that art. Many of
the soldiers were for it, he says, and many of ~be
Independent party, and abundance of wortpy IJlen
in the House of Contmons, his assured friends, and
able to take his part against the Presbyterians6
~ho would have silenced his predictions if they
could. He·afterwards c~rried his plan into exectJ-.
tfon, and when his book was published, went with
another astrologer named Booker to the head..
quarters of the parliamentary army .at :Win~or,_
where they were welcomed and feasted in the gar-
den where General Fairfax lodged. They were
afterwards introduced to the general, who received
them very kindly, aJJd made allusion to aome of
t)le_
ir predictions. He hqped thejr ~rt waa lawf~l
FORTUNE TELLING;
and agreeable to God's word ; but be did not under~
JJtand it himsel£ He did not doubt, however, that
the two astrologers feared God, and therefore be
had a good opinion of ·them. Lilly assured hin1
that the art of astrology was quite consonant to the
Scriptures; and confidently predicted from his
'knowledge of the stars, that the parliamentary
~my would overthrow all its enemies. In Oliver's
Protectorate, this quack informs us that he wrote
freely enough. He became an Independent, and
all the soldiery were his friends. When he went to
Scotland, he saw a soldier standing in front of the
army, with a book of prophecies in his hand~ ex-
claiming to the ~several companies as they passed
by him, "Lo! hear what Lilly saith: you are in
this month promised victory ! Fight it out, brave
boys!. and then read that month's prediction!"
After the great fire of London, which Lilly said
he had foretold, he wa5 sent for by the committee
of the House of CommoRs appointed to inquire
io.to the causes of the calamity. In his u Monarchy
or no Monarchy," published in 1651, he had in-
serted an hieroglyphical plate, representing on one
side persons in winding sheets digging graves; and
on the other a large city in fiames. After the great
fire some sapient member of the legislature be-
thought him of Lilly's book, and having men-
tioned it in the house, it was agreed that the astro-
loger shouldbe summoned. Lilly attended accord-
ingly, when Sir Robert Brooke told him the reason
FORTUNE TELLING. !53
of his summons, and called upon. him to declare
what he knew. This was a rare opportunity for
the vain-glorious Lilly to vaunt his abilities ; and
he began a long speech in praise of himself and his
pretended science. He said, that after the execu-
tion of Charles I, he was extremely desirous to
know what might from that time forth happen to
the parliament and to the nation in general. He,
therefore, consulted the stars and satisfied himself.
The result of his judgment he put into etnblems
and hieroglyphics, without any commentary, so that
the true meaning might be concealed from the vul-
gar, and made manifest only to the wise ; imitating
in this the example ofmany wise philosophers who
had done the like.
cc Did you. foresee the year of the fire !" said &
member. 1
' No!" quoth Lilly, "nor was I de-
sirous: of that I mad'e no scrutiny.~' After some
further parley the house found they could make
nothing of the astrologer, and dismissed him with
great civility.
One specimen of the explanation of a prophecy-
given by Lilly, and related by him with much·
complacency, will -be sufficient to show the sort
of trash by which he imposed upon the million.·
~c In the year 1588," says he, " there was a pro-.
pbecy printed in Greek characters, exactly deciphe·r-
ing the long troubles of the English nation from
1641 to 1660.;" and it. endc~ thus :-11
And aft_
er·
him shall come a dreadful dead man, and with him
{ 1\
FORTUNE TELLING.
a royal G, of the beat blood in the world, and lie
shall have the crown, and shaU set England on the
right way, and put out all heresies.,. The follow-
ing is the explanation of this oracular abeurdity :-
., Monkery being ~.rtinguulred ahoue eightg or
ttlnetg gear1, and tlu LJrd Gmerar1 name Hing
MDnk, ;, the dead man. The royal G. or C, [it u
gamma in the Greek, intending C. in the Latin,
king the third letter in·the Aphahet] il Charlu II,
tDho for ki1 e.rtractwn ma!J he 1aid to he ofthe ben
11/otJd ofthe VJorld.,.
In France and Germany utrologers met even
more encouragement than they received in England.
In very early ages, Charlemagne and his successors
fulminated their wrath against them in common
lrith sorcerers. Louis XI; that most superstitious
of men. entertained great numbers of them at his
court ; and Catherine de Medicis, that most super--
stitious of women, hardly ever took any affair of
ilnportance without consulting them. She chiefly
favoured her own countrymen ; and during the
time she governed France, the land was overrun by
Italian conjurors, necromancers, and fortune-tellera
ef every kind. But the chief astrologer of tbat
day, beyond all doubt, was the celebrated Nostra..
damus, physician to·her husband, King Henry n.
He was born in 1603, at the town of St. Remi, in
FORTUNE TELLING.
:Provence, where his father was a notary. He did
not acquire much fame till he was past hirt fiftieth
.year, when his famous ~''Centuries," a collection of
Yerses, written in obscure and almost unintelligible
language, began to excite attention. They were
so much spoken of in 1556, that Henry II. resolved
to attach. so skilful a man to his service, and ap.
pointed him his physician. In a biographical notice
ofhim prefixed to the edition of his " Vraies Cen..
turies," published at Amsterdam in 1668, we are in•
formed that he often discoursed with his royal mas-
ter on the secrets of futurity, and received many
great presents aa his reward, besides his usual al-
lowance for medical attendance. After the death
of Henry, he retired to his native place, where
Charles IX. paid him a visit in 1564, and was so
impressed with veneration for his wondrous know-
ledge of the things that were to be, not in France
only, but in the whole world for hundreds of years
to come, that he made him· a counsellor of state;
and his own physician, besides treating him in
other matters with a royal liberality. ~~ In fine,"
continues his biographer, " I should be too prolix
were I to tell all the honours conferred upon him,
and all .the great nobles and learned men that ar-
rived at his house, from the very ends of the earth.
to see and converse with him as if he had been an
oracle. Many strangers, .in fact, came to France
for ~ other purpose than to consult him.!'
256 FORTUNE TELLING.
The prophecies of Nostradamus consist of up.-
watds of a thousand stanzas, each offour lines,. and
are to the full as obscure as the oracles of old..
·They take so great a latitude, both as to.time and
space,- that they .are almost sure to be fulfilled
somewhere or other in the course of a few centuries•
.A little ingenuity like that evinced by Lilly, in·his
explanation about·General Monk and the dreadful
dead m·an, might easily make events to fit some of
them.•
. He is to this day extremely popular in France
and the Walloon country of Belgium, where old
farmer-wives consult him with great confidence and
assiduity.
• Let us try. In his aecond century, prediction 66, he eays,-
cc From great dangers the captive is escaped.
A little time, great fortune changed.
In the palace the people are caught.
By good augury the city is besieged."
•' What is this," a believer might exclaim, ~<'but the escape of'Na~
poleon from Elba-hia changed fortune, and the occupaiion of
Paris by the allied anniea ?"-Let ua try again. In hia third cen-
tury, prediction 98, he says,-
" Two royal brothers will make fierce war on each other;
• So mortal shall be the strife between them,
That each one shall occupy a fort against the other';
For their reign and life shall be the quarrel."
Some Lillius Redivivua·would find no difficulty in thia prediction:
To use a vulgar phrase, it is as clear as a pikestaff. Bad not the
astrologer in view Don Miguel and Don Pedro when he penned
thia stanza, so much leBS obscure and oracular thaD the rest 1
FORTUNE TELLING. 257
Catherine di Medicis was not the only member
of her illustrious house who entertained astrologers.
At the beginning of the fifteenth century, there
was a man named Basil, residing in Florence, who
was noted over all Italy for his skill in piercing the
darkness of futurity. It is said that he foretold to
Cosmo di Medicis, then a private citizen, that he
.would attain high dignity, inasmuch as the ascend-
·ant ofhis nativity was adorned with the same pro-
pitious aspects as those of Augustus Cmsar and the
Emperor Charles V.• Another astroJoger foretold
the death of Prince Alexander di Medicis ; and so
very minute and particular was he in all the cir..
.cumstances, that he was suspected of being chiefty
.instrumental in fulfilling his own prophecy ; a very
common resource with these fellows, to keep up
their credit. He foretold confidently that the
Prince should die by the hand of his own familiar
friend, a person of a slender habit of body, a small
face, a swarthy complexion, and of most remark-
able taciturnity. So it afterwards happened.;
Alexander having been murdered in his chamber by
.his cousin Lorenzo, who corresponded exactly with
·the above description.t The author of Hermippus
.Redivivus, in relating this story, inclines to the
·belief that the astrologer was guiltless of any parti-
cipation in the crime, but was employed by some
friend of Prince Alexander, to warn him of his
danger.
• Hennippua Redivivus, p. 142.
VOL, IJI,
t Jovii ~log. p. s~o. _
.
s
FORTUNE TELLING.
A much more remarkable story is told of an
astrologer, who lived in Romagna, in the fifteenth
century, and whose name was Antiochus Tibertua.•
At that time nearly all the potty sovereigns of Italy
retained liUCh men in their ~errice; and Tibertua
baring studied the mathematics with great success
at Paris, and deliYered many predictions, some of
which.. for guesses, were not deficient in shrewdness,
was taken into the household of Pandolfo di Mala~
testa, the sovereign of Rimini. His reputation was
so great.. that hia study was C()ntinually thronged,
either with visitors who were persons of distinction,
or with clients wh() came to him t'o~ advice.. and in
8 short time he acquired 8 considerable fo.rtune.
Notwithstanding all these advantages he paased his
life miserably, and ended it on the scaffold. The
following story afterwards got into circulation, and
has been often triumphantly cited by succeeding
astrologers as an irrefragable proof of the truth of
their science. It was said, that long before he
died he uttered three remarkable prophecies ; one
relating to himself, another to his friend, and the
third to his patron, Pandolfo di Malatesta. The
first delivered was that relating to hia friend, Guido
di Bogni, one of the greatest captains of the time.
Guid() was exceedingly desirous to know his fOI'-
tune, and so importuned Tibertw, that the latter
consulted the stars, and the Jines on his palm, to
• Les Aneedotee de Florence ou l'Hiatoire eecrete de la Maison
di Mediei.s, p. 318.
FORTUNE TELLING. i59
satisfy him. He afterwards told him with a sor-
rowful face, that according to all the rules of astro-
logy and palmistry, he should be falsely suspected
by his best friend, and should lose his life in con~
sequence. Guido then asked the astrologer if' he
could foretell his own fate; upon which Tibertus
again consulted the stars, and found that it was
decreed from all eternity that he should end his
days on the scaffold. Malatesta, when he heard
these predictions, so unlikely, to all present appear-
ance, to prove true, desired his astrologer to pre·
diet his fate also ; and to bide nothing from him,
however unfavourable it might be. Tibertus com~
plied, and told his patron, at that time one of the
most flourishing and powerful princes of Italy, that
he should suffer great want, and die at last, like
a beggar, in the common hospital of Bologna:
and so it happened in all three cas-es. Guido di
Bogui was accused by his own father~in-law, the
Count di Bentivoglio, of a treasonable design to
deliver up the city of Rimini to the papal forces~
and was assassinated afterwards, by order of the
tyrant Malatesta, as he sat at the supper-table, to
which he had been invited in all apparent friend-
ship. The astrologer was, at the same time,
thrown into pTison, as being concerned in the trea-
son of his friend. He attempted to escape, and
had succeeded in letting himself down from his
dungeon window into a moat, when he was dis-
covered by the sentinels. This being reported to
s2
1\ I
260 FORTONE TELLING.
Malatesta, he gave orders for his execution on the
following morning.
Malatesta had, at this time, no remembrance of
the prophecy; and his own fate gave him no un-
easiness: but events were silently working its ful-
filment. A conspiracy had been formed, though
Guido di Bogni was innocent of it, to deliver up
Rimini to the Pope ; and all the necessary measures
having been taken, the city was seized by the Count
de Valentinois. In the confusion, Malatesta had
barely time to escape from his palace in disguise.
He was pursued from place to place by his enemies,
abandoned by all his former friends, and, finally,
by his own children. He at last fell ill of a lan-
guishing disease, at Bologna; and, nobody caring
to afford him shelter, he was carried to the ho~
pita), where he died. The only thing that detracta
from the interest of this remarkable story is the.
fact, that the prophecy was made after the event.
For some weeks before the birth of Louis XIV1
an astrologer from Germany, who had been sent
for by the Marshal de Bassompierre and .other.
noblemen of the court, had taken up his residence
in the palace, to be ready, at a moment's notice,
to draw the horoscope of the future sovereign of
France. When the Queen was taken in labour, he
was ushered into a contiguous apartment, that be
might receive notice of the very instant the child
-
was born. The result of his observations were the
three words, diu, dut·e, felicitet·; meaning, that the
• 1\
FORTUNE TELLING. 'i61
-
new-born Prince should Jive and reign long, with
much labour, and with great glory. No prediction
less favourable could have been expected from an
astrologer, who had his bread to get, and who was
at the same time a cour:tier. A medal was after•
.wards struck in commemoration of the event;
upon one side of which was figured the nativity
of the Prince, representing him as driving the
chariot of Apollo, with the inscription " Ortus
solis Gallici,"-the rising of the Gallic sun.
. The best excuse ever made for astrology was
that offered by the great astronomer, Keppler, him-
self an unwilling practiser of the art. He had
many applications from his friends to cast nativi..
ties for them, and generally gave a positive refusal
to such as he was not afraid of offending by his
frankness. In other cases he accommodated him-
~elf to the prevailing delusion. In sending a copy
of his 11
Ephemerides" to Professor Gerlach, he
wrote that they were nothing but worthless conjec..
turea; but he was obliged to devote himself to
them, or be would have starved. u Ye overwise
philosophers," he exclaimed, in his " Tertius In..
terveniens ;" " ye censure this daughter of astro-
nomy beyond her deserts! Know !le not that she
must support her mother by her charms? The
scanty reward of an astronomer would not provide
him with bread, if men did not entertain hopes of
reading the future in the heavens.~
'FORTUNE TELLING.
NscR.OHANCT was, next to astrology, the pre~
tended science most resorted to, by those who
wished to pry into the future. The earliest in·
stance upon record is that of the Witch of Endor
and the spirit of Samuel. Nearly all the nations
of antiquity believed in the possibility of summon-
ing departed ghosts to disclose the awful secreta
that God made clear to the disembodied. Many
passages in allusion to this subject, will at onee
suggest theiDBelves to the clauical reader; but this
art was never carried on openly in any country.
All governments looked upon it as a crime ofthe
deepest dye. While astrology was encouraged, and
its professors courted and rewarded, necromancers
were universally condemned to the stake or the
gallows. Roger Baco~ Albertus Magnus~ Arnold
of Villeneuve, and many others, were accused, by
the public opinion of many centuries, of meddling
in these unhallowed matters. So deep-rooted has
always been the popular delusion with respect to
accusations of this kind, that no crime was ever
disproved with such toil and difficulty. That it
met great encouragement, nevertheles.s, is evident
from the vast numbers of pretenders to it; who, in
spite of the danger, have existed in all ages and
countries.
Gs~MANCT, or the art of foretelling the future by
means of lines and circles, and other mathematical
figures drawn on the earth, is still extensively prac-
FORTUNE T:SLLilfG•
. tised in Asiatic countries, but is almost unknown X
in Europe.
"
...
....
...
AuouRY, from the· flight or entrails of birds, so
favourite a study among the Romans, is, in like
manner, exploded in Europe. Ita most assiduoua
profesaors, at the present day, are the abominable
Thugs of India.
'\
~~
DIVIN.ATl<>N, of which there are many kinds, ~ r-,
boasts a more enduring reputation. It has held "' ~
an empire over the minds of men from the earliest 51' ~
periods of recorded history, and is, in all proba.- f t ~
bility, coeval with time itself. It was praCtised \.' -~ \
alike by the Jews, the Egyptians, the Chaldeans, ~~ t I.~, _
the Persians, the Greeks, and the Romans ; is J
r ~ -"
equally known to all modem nations, in every part I ·;- ~:
of the world; and is not unfamiliar to the un- '· '
tutored tribes that roam in the wilds of Africa ;:; ~': : :
and America. Divination, as practised in civilized :" • ! .:..
Europe at the present day, is chiefly from cards, -:
the tea-cup, and the Jines on the palm of the hand. '}-
Gipsies alone make a profession ofit; but there are ~ ~
thousands and tens of thouSands of humble families ~::- ~
in which the good-wife, and even the good-man,
resort to the grounds at the bottom of their tea-
cups, to know whether the next harvest will be
abundant, or their sow bring forth a numerous lit-
ter ; and in which the young maidens look to the
same place to know when they are to be married,
• .,
'·
FORTUN£ TELLING.
and whether the man of their choice is to be dark ·
or fairJ rich or poor, kind or cruel. Divination by
cards, so great a favourite among the moderns, is,
of course, a modern science ; aa cards do not yet
boast an antiquity of much more than four hun-
dred years. Divination by the palm, so confidently
believed in by half the village lasses in Europe, is
of older date, and seems to have been known to the
Egyptians in the time of the patriarchs ; as well as
divination by the cup, which, as we are informed in
Genesis, was practised by Joseph. Divination by
the rod was also practised by the Egyptians. In·
comparatively recent times, it was pretended that
by this means hidden treasures could be discovered.
It now appears to be altogether exploded in Europe.
Onomancy, or the foretelling a man's fate by the
letters of his name, and the various transpositionS'·
of which they are capable, is a more modern sort
of divination ; but it reckons comparatively few be-
lievers.
The following list of the various species of Divi-
nation formerly in use, is given by Gaule, in his
" Magastromancer," and quoted in Hone's ., Year
Book," p. 1517. .
Sloreomancy, or divining by the elements.
Aeromoncy, or divining by the air.
Pyromancy, by fire.
Hydromancy, by water.
(;eomancy, by earth.
( I
FORTUNE TELLING. 165
Theomancy, pretending to divine by the revelation of
the Spirit, a.nd by the Scriptures, or word ofGod.
Demonomaitc!h by the aid.of devils ·and evil spirits.
Idolomancy, by idols, images, and figures.
Ps!Jchomancy, by the soul, afl'eciioris, or dispositions
of men.
Antinopomancy, by the entrails of human beings.
Theriomancy, by beasts.
Ornithomancy, by birds.
Iclzthyomancy, by fishes.
Botanomancy, by herbs.
Lilhomancy, by stones.
Kleromancy, by lots.
Oneiromancy, by dreams.
Onomancy, by names.
Arithmancy, by numbers.
Logarithmancy, by logarithms.
Sternomancy, by the marks from the breast to the
belly.
Gaatromancy, by the sound ·of, or marks upon, the
belly.
Omphelomancy, by the navel.
Ch!romancy, by the hands.
Ptedomancy, by the feet.
Onchyomancy, by the nails.
Cephaleonomancy, by asses' heads.
Tuphramoncy, by ashes.
Kapnomancy, by smoke.
Livanomancy, by the burning ofincense.
Keromatzcy, by the melting of wax.
FORTUlfB T.BLLlifG.
~ncy, by basins of water.
Kato.rtronranc!J, by looking-glusea.
Chartomancy, by writing in papers, and by Valen-
tines.
Machat•omaney, by knives and swords.
C ryatatlomancy, by crystals.
Dactylomancy, by rings.
Koseinomancy, by sieves.
A.1.'inomancy, by saws.
Kaltabomancy, by vessels of brass, or other metaJ.
Spatalamancy, by skins, bones, &c.
Roadomancy, by stars.
&iomancy, by shadows.
Astragalomancy, by dice.
Oinomancy, by the lees of wine.
Sycomancy, by figs.
Typomancy, by cheese.
Alphiloma11cy, by meal, flouT, or bran.
Krithomancy, by corn or grain.
Alectromancy, by cocks.
Gyromancy, by circles.
Lampadomancy, by candles and lamps.
ONEIRO..CRITJCISM, or the art of interpreting
dreams, is a relic of the most remote ages,
which has subsisted through all the changes that
moral or physical revolutions have operated in the
world. The records of five thousand years bear
abundant testimony to the universal diffusion of
the belief, that the skilful could read the future in
FORTUNE TELLlNG. 267
dreams. The rules of the art, if any existed in
ancient times, are not known ; but in our day, one
simple rule opens the whole secret. Dreams, say
all the wiseacres in Christendom, are to be inter-
preted by contraries. Thus, if you dream of filth,
you will acquire something valuable; if you dream
ofthe dead, you will hear news ofthe living ; if you
dream of gold and silver, you run a risk of being
without either ; and if you dream you have many
friends, you will be persecuted by many enemies.
The rule, however, does not hold good in all cases.
It is fortunate to dream of little pigs, but unfortu-
nate to dream of big bullocks. If you dream you
have lost a tooth, you may be sure that you will
shortly lose a friend ; and if you dream that your
house is on fire, you will receive news from a far
country. If you dream of vermin, it is a sign that
there will be sickness in your family; and if you
dream: of serpents, you. will have friends who, in
the course of time, will prove your .bitterest en~
mies; but, of all dreams, it is most fortunate if
you dream that you are wallowing up to your neck
in mud and mire. Clear water is a sign of grief;
and great troubles, di~ttress, and perplexity are pre-
dicted, if you dream that you s.tand naked in the
public stre_
ets, and know not where to find a gar-
ment to shield you from the gaze of the multitude.
In many parts of Great Britain, and the con-
tinents of Europe and America, there are to be
found elderly women in the villages and country-
1\
fORTUNE TELLING.
places whose interpretations of dreams are looked
upon with as much reverence as if they were ora-
cles. In districts remote from towns it is not
1:1ncommon to find the members of a family regu-
larly every morning narrating their dreams at the
breakfaat-table, and becoming happy or miserable
for the day according to their interpretation.
There is not a flower that blossoms, or fruit that
ripens, that, dreamed of, is not ominous of either
good or evil to such people, Every tree of the
field or the forest is endowed with a similar in-
fluence over the fate of mortals, if seen in the
night-visions. To dream of the ash, is the sign
of a long journey; and of an oak, prognosticates
long life and prosperity. To dream you strip the
bark oft' any tree, is a sign to a maiden of an
approaching loss of a character ; to a married
woman, of a family bereavement; and to a man,
of an accession of fortune. To dream of a leaf-
less tree, is a sign of great sorrow ; and of a
branchless trunk, a sign of despair and suicide.
. The elder-tree is more auspicious to the sleeper ~
while the fir-tree, better still, betokens all manner
of comfort and prosperity. The lime-tree predicts
a voyage across the ocean ; while the yew and the
alder are ominous of sickness to the young and
of death to the old.• Among the flowers and·fruits
charged with messages for the futuTe, the follow-
• lt is quite astonishing to see the great demand there is, both
in,England and Franoe, for dream-books, and other traah of th&
\ I I I
•
FORTUNE TELLING. 269-
ing is a list of the most important, arranged from
approved sources, in alphabetical o.rder :~
Asparagus, gathered and tied up in bundles, is .an
omen of tears. If you see it growing in your
dreams, it is a sign of good fortune.
Aloes, without a flower, betoken long life: in
flower, betoken a legacy. .
Artichokes. This vegetable is a sign that you will
receive, in a short time, a favour from the hands
of those from whom you would least expect it.
Agrimony. This herb denotes that there will be
sickness in your house.
Anemone, predicts love.
Auriculaa, in beds, denote luck ; in pots, marriage :
while to gather them, foretells widpwhood.
Bilberries, predict a pleasant excursion.
Br:oom1/owe1~s, an increase of.family. _
Cauliflowers, predict that all your friends will.slight
you, or that you will fall into poverty and find
no one to pity you.
fJ&.me kind. Two books in England enjoy an extraordinary po·
pularity, and have run through upwards of lift.y editions in as
many years in London alone, besides being reprinted in Manchee-
tj!r, Edinburgh, Glasgow, apd Dub1in. One is "Mother Bridge(a
Dream-book and Oracle of Fate;" the other is the "Norwood
Gipsy." It is stated on the authority of one who is curious in th~
matters, that there is a demand for these works, which are sold at
sums varying from a penny to sixpence~ chiefly to servant-girls and
imperfectly-educated people, all over the country, of upwards of
eleven thousand annually ; and that at no period during the last
\birtyyearshas the average number sold been less than this. The
total number during this period would thus amount to 880,000.
270 FORTUNE TELLING.
Dock-leavu, a present from the country.
Daffodils. Any maiden who dreams of daffodils is
warned by her good angel to avoid going into
a wood with her lover, or into any dark or re-
tired place where she might not be able to make
people hear her if she cried out. Alas ! for her
if she pay no attention to the warning! She
shall be rifted of the precious flower of ebaatity,
and shall never again have right to wear the
garland of virginity.
••Never again shall she put garland on;
Instead ofit, she '11 wear sad cypreaa now,
Andbitter elder broken from the bough.''
l!iga, if green, betoken embarrassment ; if dried,
money to the poor and mirth to the rich.
Hearts-ease, betokens heart's pain.
Lilies, predict joy; water-lilies, danger from the
sea.
Lemons, betoken a separation.
Pomegranates, predict happy wedlock to those
who are single, and reconciliation to those who
are married and have disagreed.
Quinces, prognosticate pleasant company.
Ro8ea, denote happy love, not unmixed with S()rrow
from other sources.
Sorrel. To dream of this herb is a sign that you
will shortly have occasion to exert all your pru-
dence to overcome some great calamity.
Sunflowers, show that your pride will ·be deeply
wounded.
1\
FOBl'UlfE TELLING. 271
Violets, predict evil to the single and joy to the
married.
YelltJW-jlOUJer8 of any kind predict jealousy.
Yeu:-berries, predict loss of character to both
sexes.
It should be observed that the rules for the
interpretation of dreams are far from being uni-
versal. The cheeks of the peasant girl of England
glow with pleasure in the morning after she has
dreamed of a rose, while the paysanne of Normandy
dreads disappointment and vexation for the very
same reason. The Switzer who dreams of an oak-
tree does not share in the Englishman's joy ; for
he imagiBes that the vision was a warning to him
that, from some trifling cause, an overwhelming
calamity will burst over him. Thus do the igno,-
rant and the credulous torment themselves ; thus
do they spread their nets to catch vexation, and
pass their lives between hopes which are of no
value and fears which are a positive evil.
0MENs.-Among the other means of self-annoy-
ance upon which men have stumbled, in their vain
hope of discovering the future. signs and omens
hold a conspicuous place. There is scarcely an
occurrence in nature which, happening at a certain
time, is not looked upon by some persons as a
prognosticator either of good or evil. The latter
are in the great.est number, so much more inge-
FORTUNE TELLING.
nious ar~ we in tormenting ourselves than in dis-
covering reasons for enjoyment in the things that
surround us. We go out of our course to make
ourselves uncomfortable ; the cup of life is not
bitter enough to our palate, and we distil super-
fluous poison to put into it, or conjure up hideous
things to frighten ourselves at, which would never
exist if we did not make them. " We suffer/' says
Addison,• "as much from trifling accidents a.s from
real evils. I have known the shooting of a star
spoil a night's rest, and have seen a man in love
grow pale and lose his appetite upon the plucking
of a merrythought. A screech-owl at midnight has
alarmed a family more than a band of robbers;
nay, the voice of a cricket has struck more terror
than the roaring of a lion. There is nothing so
inconsiderable which .may not appear dreadful t0
an imagination that is filled with omens and prog-
nostics. A rusty nail or a crooked pin shoot up
into.prodigies."
The century and a quarter that has passed away
since Addison wrote has seen the fall of many
errors. Many fallacies and delusions have been
crushed under the foot of time since then ; but
this has been left unscathed, to frighten the weak..
minded and embitter their existence. A belief in
omens is not confined to the bumble and unin-
formed. A general, who led an army with credit,
• "Spectator/ ~o. i, M~h. 8t~, ~ 7~_0·11•.
FORTUNE TELLING. 279
has been known to feel alarmed at a winding-sheet
in the candle ; and learned men, who bad honour-
ably and fairly earned the highest honours of litera.
ture, have been seen to gather their little ones
around them, and fear that one would be snatched
away, because,
" When stole upon the time the dead ofnightJ
And heavy sleep had closed up mortal eyes,"
a dog in the street was howling at the moon.
Persons who would acknowledge . freely that the
belief in omens was unworthy of a man of sense,
have yet confessed at the same time that, in spite
of their reason, they have been unable to con-
quer their fears of death when they beard the
harmless insect called the death-watch ticking in
the walJ, or s~w an oblong hollow coal fly out of
the fire.
Many other evil omens besides those men-
tioned above alarm the vulgar and the·weak. If a
sudden shivering comes over such people, they
believe that, at that instant, an enemy is treading
over the spot that will one day be their grave.
If they meet a sow when they first walk abroad
in the morning, it is an omen of evil for that
day. To meet an ass, is in like manner unlucky.
It is also very unfortunate to walk under a lad-
der; to forget to eat goose on the festival of St.
Michael ; to tread upon a beetle, or to eat the
twin nuts that are sometimes found in one shell.
VOL. Ill. T
,, t 1J I
FORTUNE TELLING.
Woe, in like manner, is predicted to that wight
who inadvertently upsets the salt; each grain that
is overthrown will bring to him a day of sorrow.
If thirteen persons sit at table, one of them will
die within the year ; aQd all of them will be un-
happy. Of all evil omens, this is the worst. The
facetious Dr. Kitchener used to observe that there
was one case in which he believed that it was really
unlucky for thirteen persons to sit down to din-
ner, and that was when there was only dinner
enough for twelve. Unfortunately for their peace
of mind, the great majority of people do not take
this wise view of the matter. In almost every
country of Europe the same superstition prevails,
and some carry it so far as to look -upon the
number thirteen as in every way ominous of evil ;
and if they find thirteen coins in their purse, cast
away the odd one like a polluted thing. The
philosophic Beranger, in his exquisite song,
u Thirteen 'at Table," has taken a poetical view
of this humiliating superstition, and mingled, as
-
is his wont, .a lesson of genuine wisdom in his
lay. Being at dinner, he overthrows the salt,
and, looking round the room, discovers that he
is the thirteenth guest. While he is mourn-
ing his unhappy fate, and conjuring up visions
of disease and suffering, and the grave, be is
suddenly startled by the apparition of Death her-
self, not in the shape of a grim foe, with ske-
leton ribs and menacing dart, but of an angel
1\
FORTONE TELLING.
of light, who shows the folly of tormenting our-
selv-es with the dread of her approach, when she
is the friend, rather than the enemy, of man, and
frees us from the fetters which bind us to the
dust.
If men could bring themselves to look upon
Death in this manner, living well and wisely till
her inevitable approach, how vast a store of grief
and vexation would they spare themselves!
Among good omens, one of the most conspicu-
-ous is to meet a piebald horse. To meet two of
these animals is still more fortunate ; and if on
such an occasion you spit thrice, and form any
reasonable wish, it will be gratified within three
days. It is also a sign of good fortune if you
inadvertently put on your stocking wrong side
out. If you wilfully wear your stocking in this
fashion, no good will come of it. It is very lucky
to sneeze twice; but if you sneeze a third time,
the omen loses its power, and your good fortune
will be nipped in the bud. If a strange dog fol-
low you, and fawn on you, and wish to attach
itself to you, it is a sign of very great prosperity.
Just as fortunate is it if a strange male cat comes
to your house and manifests friendly i~tentions
towards your family. Ifa she cat, it is an omen,
on the contrary, of very great misfortune. If a
swarm of bees alight in your garden, some very
high honour and great joys await you.
Besides these glimpses of the future, you may
T2
1\
276 FORTUNE TELLING.
know something of your fate by a diligent atten-
tion to every itching that you may feel in your
body. Thus, if the eye or the nose itches, it is
a sign you will be shortly vexed; if the foot itches
you will tread upon strange ground ; and if the
elbow itches, you will change your bedfellow. Itch-
ing of the right-band prognosticates that you will
soon have a sum of money ; and of the left, that
you will be called upon to disburse it.
These are but a few of the omens which are
generally credited in modern Europe. A com-
plete list of them would fatigue from its length,
and sicken from its absurdity. It would be still
more unprofitable to attempt to specify the various
delusions of the same kind which are believed
among Oriental nations. Every reader will re-
member the comprehensive formula of cursing pre-
served in " Tristram Shandy :,- curse a man after
any fashion you remember or can invent, you will be
sure to find it there. The Oriental creed of omens
is not less comprehensive. Every movement of
the body, every emotion of the mind, is at certain
times an omen. Every form and object in nature,
even the shape of the clouds and the changes of
the weather; every colour, every sound, whether
of men or animals, or birds or insects, or inani-
mate things, is an omen. Nothing is too trifting
or inconsiderable to inspire a hope which is not
worth cherishing, or a fear which is sufficient to
embitter existence.
1\ I I
.
FORTUNE TELI.INO.
From the belief in omens springs the superstition
that has, from very early ages, set apart certain
days, as more favourable than others, for prying
into the secrets of futurity. The following, copied
verbatim from the popular u Dream and Omen
Book'' of Mother Bridget, will show the belief of
the peop1e of England at the present day. 'fhose
who are curious as to the ancient history of these
observances, will find abundant aliment in the
"Every-day Book."
H The 1st ofJanuary.-If a young maiden drink,
on going to bed, a pint of co]d spring-water,
in which is beat up an amulet, composed of
the yo1k of a pullet's egg, the legs of a
spider, and the skin of an eel pounded, her
future destiny will be revealed to her in a
dream. This charm fails of its effect if tried
any other day of the year.
u Valentine Day.-Let a single woman go out of
her own door very early in the morning, and
if the first person she meets be a woman, she
will not be married that year : if she meet
a man, she will be married within three
months.
"Lady Doy.-The following charm may be tried
this day with certain success : -String thirty-
one nuts on a string, composed of red worsted
mi}:ed with blue silk, and tie it round your
neck on going to bed, repeating these lines-
i78 FORTUNE TELLING.
' Oh, I wish I oh, I wiah to see
Who my true love ia to.be I'
Shortly after midnight, you will see your lover
in a dream_, and be info_
rmed at the same time
of all the principal events of your future life.
"St. Swithin's Eve.-Select three things you most
wish to know ; write them down with a new
pen and red ink on a sheet of nne-wove paper,
from which you must previously cut off all the
corners and·burn them. Fold the paper into
a true.Jover's knot, and wrap round it three
hairs from your head. Place the paper under
your pillow for three successive nights, and
your curiosity to know the future will .be sa-
. tisfied.
"St. Mark'8 Eve.- Repair to the nearest church-
yard as the clock strikes twelve, and take from
a grave on th~ south-side of the church three
tufts of grass (the longer and ranJter -the bet-
ter), and on going to bed place them under
your pillow, repeating earnestly three several
times, •
' The Eve ofSt. Mark by prediction is blest,
Set therefore my hopes and my fears all to rest:
Let me know my fate, whether weal or woe;
Whether my rank 'a to be high or low;
Whether to live single, or be a bride,
And the destiny my star doth provide.'
Should you have no dream that night, you will
be single and miserable all your life. If you
1\ I
FORTUNE TELLING. ~79
dream of thunder and lightning, your life will
be one ofgreat difficulty and sorrow.
" Candlemas Eve.- On this night (which is the
purification of the Virgin Mary), let three,
five, seven, or nine, young maidens assemble
together in a square chamber. Hang in each
corner a bundle of sweet herbs, mixed with
rue and rosemary. Then mix a cake of flour,
olive-oil, and white sugar; every maiden hav-
ing an equal share in the making and the
expense of it. Afterwards, it must be cut into
equal pieces, each one marking the piece as
she cuts it with the initials of. her name. It
is then to be baked one hour before the fire,
not a word being spoken the whole time, and
the maidens sitting with their arms and knees
across. Each piece of cake is then to be
wrapped up in a sheet of paper, on which each
maiden shall write the love·part of Solomon•s
Songs. If she put this undel' her pillow, she
will dream true. She will see her future hus-
band and every one of her children, and will
know, besides, whether her family will be poor
or prospel'ous-a comfort to her, or the con-
trary.
" Midsummer.-Take three roses, smoke them with
sulphur, and exactly at three in the day, bury
one of the roses under a yew tree ; the second
in a newly-made grave, and put the third
under your pillow for three nights, and at the
1\ I
280 FORTUNE TELLING.
end of that period burn it in a fire of charcoal.
Your dreams during that time will be pro-
phetic of your future destiny, and, what is still
more curious and valuable (Mother Bridget
loquitur), the man whom you are to wed, will
know no peace till he comes and visits you.
Besides this, you will perpetually haunt his
dreams.
11
St. John's Eve.-Make a new pincushion of the
very best black velvet (no inferior quality will
answer the purpose), and on one side stick
your name in full length with the very small- '
est pins that can be bought (none other will
do). On the other side, make a cross with
~ome very large pins, and surround it with
a circle. Put this into your stocking when
you take it off at night, and bang it up at
the foot of the bed. All your future life will
pass before you in a dream.
u First New Moon ofthe Year. - On the first new
moon in the year, take a pint of clear sprin,g-
water and infuse into it the white of an egg
laid by a white hen, a glass of white wine,
three almonds peeled white, and a tablespoon-
ful of wllite rose-water. Drink this on going
to bed, not making more nor less than three
draughts of it ; repeating the following verses
three several times in a clear distinct voice,
but not so loud as to be overheard by any-
body:-
FORTUNE TELLING.
c IfI dream of water pure
Before the coming mom,
'Tis a sign I shall be poor,
And unto wealth not born.
If I dream oftasting beer,
Middling then will be my cheer-
Chequer'd with the good and bad,
Sometimes joyful, sometimes sad;
But should I dream of drinking wine,
Wealth and pleasure will be mine.
The stronger the drink, the better the cheer--
Dreams ofmy destiny, appear, appear I'
i81
cc Twenty-ninth ofFebruary.-This day, as it only
occurs once in four years, is peculiarly au-
spicious to those·who desire to have a glance
at futurity, especially to young maidens burn-
ing with anxiety to know the appearance and
complexion of their'fut\lre lords. The charm
to be adopted is the following : Stick twenty-
seven of the smallest pins that are made, three
by three, into a tallow candle. Light it up at
the wrong end, and then place it in a candle-
stick made out of clay, which must be drawn
from a virgin's grave. Place this on the chim-
ney-place, in the left-hand comer, exactly as
the clock strikes twelve, and go to bed im-
mediately. When the candle is burnt out,
take the pins and put them into your left-
shoe; and before nine nights have elapsed
your fate will be revealed to you."
We have now taken a hasty review of the various
modes of seeking to discover the future, especially
i8i FORTUNE TELLING.
as practised in modern times. The main features
of the folly appear essentially the same in all
countries. National character and peculiarities
operate some difference of interpretation. The
mountaineer makes the natural phenomena which
he most frequently witnesses prognosticative of
the future. The dweller in the pl11ins, in a simi-
lar· manner, seeks to know his fate among .the
signs of the things that surround him, ana tints
his superstition with the hues of his own clime.
The same spirit animates them all- the same
desire to know that which Infinite Mercy has con-
cealed. There is but little probability that the
curiosity of mankind in this respect will ever be
wholly eradicated. Death and ill-fortune are con-
tinual bugbears to the wea~minded, the irre-
ligious, and the ignorant ; and while such exist
in the world, divines will preach · upon its im-
piety and philosophers discourse upon its absurd-
ity in vain. Still, it is evident that these follies
have greatly diminished. Soothsayers and pro-.
phets have lost the credit they formerly enjoyed,
and skulk in secret now where they once showed
their faces in the 111aze of day. So far there is
manifest improvement.
288
BOOK III.
THE MAGNETISERS.
~ome deemed them wonP,rous wise, and some believed them mad.
Bcattie'a Minatrel.
THE wonderful influence of imagination in the
cure of diseases is well known. A motion of the
hand, or a glance ofthe eye, will throw a weak and
credulous patient into a fit ; and a pill made of
bread, if taken with sufficient faith, will operate
a cure better than all the drugs in the pharmaco-
preia. The Prince of Orange, at the siege of
Breda, in 1625, cured all his soldiers who were
dying of the scurvy, by a philanthropic piece of
quackery, which he played upon them with the
knowledge of the physicians, when all other means
had failed.• Many hundreds of instances, of a
* See Van der Mye's account ofthe siege of Breda. The gar-
rison, being afflicted with scurvy, the Prince of Orange sent the
physicians two or three small phials, containing a decoction of
camomile, wormwood, and camphor, telling them to pretend that
it was a medicine of the greatest value and extremest rarity, which
bad been procured with very much danger and difficulty from the
East; and so strong, that two or three drops would impart a heal-
ing virtue to a gallon of water. The soldiers had faith in their
1\ I
THE MAGNETISERS.
similar kind, might be related, especially from the
history of witchcraft. The mummeries, strange
gesticulations, and barbarous jargon of witches and
sorcerers, which frightened credulous and nervous
women, brought on all those symptoms of hysteria
and other similar diseases, so well understood now,
but which were then supposed to be the work of
the devil, not only by the victims and the public in
general, but by the operators themselves.
In the age when alchymy began to fall into some
disrepute, and learning to lift up its voice against
it, a new delusion, based upon this power of ima~
gination, suddenly arose, and found apostles among
all the alcbymists. Numbers of them, forsaking
their old pursuits, made themselves magnetisers. It
appeared first in the shape of mineral, and after-
wards of animal, magnetism, under which latter
name it survives to this day, and numbers its dupes
by thousands.
The mineral magnetisers claim the first notioe,
as the worthy predecessors of the quacks of the
present day. The honour claimed for Paracelsus of
being the first ofthe Rosicrucians has been disputed ;
but his claim to be considered the first of the mag-
netisers can ·
scarcely be challenged. It has been
already mentioned of him, in the part of this work
commander; they took the medicine with cheerful facee, and grew
well rapidly. They afterwards thronged about the Prince in groupa
oftwenty and thirty at a time, praising his akill, and loading him
with protestations of gratitude.
1\
TllE M.AGNETISEBS. 285
which treats of alchymy, that, like nearly all the
distinguished adepts, he was a physician ; and pre-
tended, not only to make gold and confer immor-
tality, but to cure all diseases. He was the first
who, with the latter view, attributed occult and
miraculous powers to the magnet. Animated ap-
parently by a sincere conviction that the magnet
was the philosopher's stone, which, if it could not
transmute metals, could soothe all human suffering
and arrest the progress of decay, he travelled for
many years in Persia and Arabia, in search of the
mountain of adamant, so famed in oriental fables.
When he practised as a physician at Basle, he call-
ed one of his nostrums by the name of azoth- a
stone or crystal, which, he said, contained ttlagnetic
properties, and cured epilepsy, hysteria, and spas-
modic affections. He soon found imitators. His
fame spread far and near ; and thus were sown the
first seeds of that error which bas since taken root
and flourished so widely. In spite of the denial of
modern practitioners, this must be con£1idered the
origin of magnetism ; for we find that, beginning
with Paracelsus, there was a regular succession of
mineral magnetisers until Mesmer appeared, and
gave a new feature to the delusion.
Paracelsus boasted of being able to transplant
diseases from the human frame into the earth, by
means of the magnet. He said there were six ways
by which this might be effected. One of them will
be quite sufficient, as a specimen. " If a person
1\ (
i86 l"HE MAGNETISERS.
suffer from disease, .
either local or general, let the
following remedy be tried. Take a magnet, im-
pregnated with mummy,• and mixed with rich
earth. In this earth sow some seeds that have a
congruity or homogeneity with the disease : then
let this earth, well sifted and mixed with mummy,
be laid in an earthen vessel ; and Jet the seeds
committed to it be watered daily with a lotion in
which the diseased limb or body has been washed.
Thus will the disease be transplanted from the
human body to the seeds which are in the earth.
Having done this, transplant the seeds from the
earthen vessel to the ground, and wait till they
begin· to sprout into herbs : as they increase, the
• Mummies were of several kinds, and were all of great use in
magnetic medicines. Paracelsus enumerates six kinds of mum-;.
mies; the first four only differing in the composition used by dU"·
ferent people for preserving their dead, are the Egyptian, Arabian,
Pisasphaltos, and Lybian. The fifth mummy of peculiar power
was made from criminals that had been hanged ; u for frotxl such
there is a gentle siccation, that expungetb the watery ·humour,
without destroying the oil and .
spi.rituall, which is cherished by the
heavenly luminaries, and strengthened continually by the affluence
·and impulaes of the celestial spirits; whence. it may be properly
Called by the name of conatellated or celestial mumrnie." The
sixth kind ofmummy was made of corpuscles, or spiritual efflu-
ences, radiated from the living body ; though we cannot get "Very
clear ideas on this head, or respecting the manner in which they
were caught.-".Medicina Diatastica ; or, Sympathetical Mum·
mie, abstracted from the Works of Paraoolsus, arid translated out
of the Latin, by Fernando Parkhurst, Gent." London, 1658.
pp. 2. 7. Quoted py the " Foreign Quarterly Review," -voL xii.
p. 415.
THE MAONETlSERS.
disease will diminish ; and when they have arrived
at their full growth, it will disappear altogether."
Kircher the Jesuit, whose quarrel with the al-
chymists was the· means of exposing many of their
impostures, was a firm believer in the efficacy of
the magnet. Having been applied to by a patient
affiicted with hernia, he directed the man to swal-
low a small magnet reduced to powder~ while he
applied, at the same time, to the external swelling
a poultice, made of filings of iron. He expected
that by this means the magnet, when it got to the
corresponding place inside, would draw in the iron,
and with it the tumour ; which would thus, he said,
be safely and expeditiously reduced.
As this new doctrine of magnetism spread, it was
found that wounds inflicted with any metallic sub-
stance could be cured by the magnet. In process
of time the delusion so increased, that it was deem-
ed sufficient to magnetise a sword, to cure any hurt
which that sword might have inflicted ! This was
the origin ofthe celebrated ''weapon--salve," which
excited so much attention about the middle of the
seventeenth century. The followipg was the recipe
given by Paracelsus for the cure of any wounds in-
flicted by ~ sharp weapon, except such as had pene-
'trated the heart, the brain, or the arteries. "Take
of moss growing on the head of a thief who has
been hanged and left in the air ; of real mummy ;
of human blood, still warm-of each, one ounce;
of human suet, two ounces; of linseed oi1, turpen-
{ I
i88 THE MAGNETISERS.
tine, and Armenian bole-of each, two drachms.
Mix all well in a mortar, and keep the salve in an
oblong, narrow urn." With this salve the weapon,
after being dipped in the blood from the wound,
was to be carefully anointed, and then laid by in a
cool place. In the mean time, the wound was to
be duly washed with fair clean water, covered with
a clean, soft, linen rag, and opened once a day to
cleanse off purulent or other matter. Of the suc-
cess of this treatment, says the writer of the able
article on Animal Magnetism, in the twelfth volume
of the "Foreign Quarterly Review," there cannot
be the least doubt ; " for surgeons at this moment
follow exactly the same method, e:rcept anointing
the weapon !"
The weapon salve continued to be much spoken
of on the Continent, and many eager claimants ap-
peared for the honour of the invention. Dr. Fludd,
or A Fluctibus, the Rosicrucian, who has been al-
ready mentioned in a previous part of this volume,
was very zealous in introducing it into England.
He tried it with great success in several cases ;
and no wonder; Jor, while he kept up the spirits of
his patients by boasting of the great efficacy of the
salve, he never neglected those common,.but much
more important remedies, of washing, bandaging,
&c. which the experience of all ages had declared
sufficient for the purpose. Fludd, moreover, de-
clared, that the magnet was a remedy for all dis-
eases, if properly applied; but that man having,
1\
THE MAGNETISERS. 289
like the earth, a north and a south pole, magnetism
could only take place when his body was in a boreal
position ! In the midst ofhis popularity, an attack
was made upon him and his favourite remedy, the
salve; which, however, did little or nothing to di-
minish the belief in its efficacy. One "Parson
Foster'' wrote a pamphlet, entitled" Hyplocrisma
Spongus; or, a Spunge to wipe away the Weapon-
Salve ;" in which he declared, that.it was as bad as
witchcraft to use or recommend such an unguent ;
that it was invented by the deviJ, who, at the last
day, would seize upon every person who had given
it the slightest encouragement. 11
In fact," said
Parson Foster, "the devil himself gave it to Para-
celsus; Paracelsus to the Emperor; the Emperor
to the courtier; the courtier to Baptista Porta ;
and Baptista Porta to Dr. Fludd, a doctor of phy-
sic, yet living and practising in the famous city of
London, who now stands tooth and nail for it.'' Dr.
Fludd, thus assailed, took up the pen in defence
of his unguent, in a reply calJed u The Squeezing
of Parson Foster's Spunge ; wherein the Spunge-
Bearer's immodest Carriage and Behaviour towards
his Brethren is detected ; the bitter Flames of his
slanderous Reports are, by the sharp Vinegar of
Truth, corrected and quite extinguished; and, lastly,
the virtuous Validity of his Spunge in wiping away
the Weapon-Salve, is crushed out imd clean abo-
lished."
Shortly after this dispute a ·II\Pr~ .distinguished
VOL. IIJ. D
'I '
290 THE MAONETISERS.
believer in the weapon-salve made his appearance,
in the person of Sir Kenelm Digby, the son of Sir
Everard Digby, who was executed for his participa-
tion in the Gunpowder Plot. This gentleman, who,
in other .respects, was an accomplished scholar and
an able man, was imbued with all the extravagant
notions of the alchymists. He believed in the phi-
losopher's stone, and wished to engage Descartes to
devote his energies to the discovery of the elixir of
life, or some other means by which the existence of
man might be prolonged to an indefinite period.
He gave his wife, the beautiful Venetia Anastasia
Stanley, a dish of capons, fed upon vipers, accord-
ing to the plan supposed to have been laid down by
Arnold of Villeneuve, in the hope that she might
thereby preserve her loveliness for a century. If
such a man once took up the idea of the weapon-
salve, it was to be expected that he would make
the most o£ it. In his hands, however, it was
changed from an unguent into a powder, and was
called the powder ofsympathy. He pretended that
he had acquired the knowledge of it from a Car.
melite friar,·who had learned it in Persia or Arme-
nia, from an oriental philosopher of great renown.
King James, the Prince of Wales, the Duke of
Buckingham, and many other noble personages, be-
lieved in its efficacy. The following remarkable
instance of his mode of cure was read by Sir
Kenelm to a society of learned men at Montpellier.
Mr. James Howell, the well-known author of the
THE MAGNETISERS. 291
" Dendrologia," and of various letters, coming by
chance as two of his best friends were fighting a
duel, rushed between them, and endeavoured to
part them. He seized the sword of one of the
combatants by the hilt, while, at the same time, he
grasped the other by the blade. Being transported
with fury one against the other, they struggled to
rid themselves of the hindrance caused by their
friend; and in so doing, the one whose sword was
held by the blade by Mr. Howell, drew it away
roughly, and nearly cut his hand ofF, severing the
nerves and muscles, and penetrating to the bone.
The other, almost at the same instant, disengaged
his sword, and aimed a blow at the head of his
antagonist, which Mr. Howell observing, raised his
wounded hand with the rapidity of thought, to pre-
vent the blow. The sword fell on the back of his
already wounded hand, and cut it severely... cc It
seemed,,said SirKenelm Digby, n as ifsome unlucky
star raged over them, that they should have both
shed the blood of that dear friend, for whose life
they would have given their own, if they had been
in their proper mind at the time." Seeing Mr.
Howell's face all besmeared with blood from his
wounded hand, they both threw down their swords
and embraced him, and bound up his hand with a
garter, to close the veins, which were cut, and bled
profusely. They then conveyed him home, and
sent for a ·surgeon. King James, who was much
attached to Mr. Howell, afterwards sent his own
u~
1\
TnE MAGNETISERS.
surgeon to attend him. We must continue the
narrative in the words of Sir Kenelm Digby:-
u It was my chance," says he, "to be lodged hard
by him: and, four or five days after, as I was
making myself ready, he came to my house, and
prayed me to view his wounds ; ' for I understand,'
said he, 'that you have extraordinary remedies on
such occasions; and my surgeons apprehend some
fear, that it may grow to a gangrene, and so the
hand must be cut otf.' In effect, his countenance
discovered that he was in much pain, which, he
said, was insupportable, in regard of the extreme
inflammation. I told him I would willingly serve
him; but if, haply, he knew the manner how I
could cure him, without touching or seeing him, it
might be that he would not expose himself to my
manner of curing; because he would think it, per-
adventure, either ineffectual or sijperstitious. He
replied, ' The many wonderful things which people
have related unto me of your way ofmedicinement,
makes me nothing doubt at all of its efficacy; and .
all that I have to say unto you is comprehended in
the Spanish proverb, Hogase el milogro y hagalo
Mahoma-Let the miracle be done, though Ma-
homet do it.'
" I asked him then for anything that had the
blood upon it : so he presently sent for his garter,
wherewith his hand was first bound ; and, as I
called for a basin of water, as if I would wash my
bands, I took a handful of powder of vitriol, which
1\
THE ltAONETISE.RS.
I had in my study, and presently dissolved it. As
soon as the bloody garte.r was brought me, I put it
in the basin, observing, in the interim, what Mr.
Howell did, who stood talking with a gentleman in
a corner of my chamber, not regarding at all what
I was ·doing. He started suddenly, as if he had
found some strange alteration in himself. I asked
him what he ailed 1 ' I know not what ails me;
but I find that I feel no more pain. Methinks that
a pleasing kind of freshness, as it were a wet cold
aapkin, did spread over my hand, which hath taken
away the inflammation that tormented me before.'
I replied, 'Since, then, you feel already so much
good of my medicament, I advise you to cast away
all your plasters ; only keep the wound clean, and
in a moderate temper, betwixt heat and cold.'
This was presently reported to the Duke of Buck-
ingham, and a little after, to the King, who were
both very curious to know the circumstances of the
business; which was, that after dinner, I took the
garter out of the water, and put it to dry before a
great fire. It was scarce dry before Mr.Howell's ser-
vant came running, and saying that his master felt
as much burning as ever he had done,ifnot more ; for.
the heat was such as ifhis hand were betwixt coals of
fire. I answered, that although that had happened
at present, yet he should find ease in a short time ;
for I knew the reason of this new accident, and
would provide accordingly ; for his master should
be free from that inflammation, it might be, before
THE MAGNETISERS.
he could possibly return to him: but, in case he
found no ease, I wished him to come presently back
again ; if not, he might forbear coming. There-
upon he went ; and, at the in_
stant, I did put the
garter again into the water; thereupon he found
his master without any pain at all. To be brief,
there was no sense of pain afterwards ; but within
five or six days, the wounds were cicatrised and en-
tirely healed."
Such is the marvellous story of Sir Kenelm Dig-
by. Other practitioners of that age were not be-
hind him in absurdity. It was not always neces-
sary to use either the powder of sympathy, or the
weapon-salve, to effect a cure. It was sufficient to
"-.... magnetise the sword with the hand (the first faint
dawn of the animal theory), to relieve any pain the
same weapon had caused. They pretended, that
if they stroked the sword upwards with their fingers,
the wounded person would feel immediate relief;
but if they stroked it downwarth, he would feel
intolerable pain.•
Another very strange notion of the power and
capabilities of magnetism was entertained at the
same time. It was believed that a sympathetic al-
phabet could be made on the flesh, by means of
whicb persons could correspond with each other,
and communicate all their ideas with the rapidity.
of volition, although thousands of miles apart•.
· • Reginald Scott, quoted by Sir Walter Scott, in the notes to
· the t~ Lay ofthe Last Minstrelt c. iii. v. :xx.ili.
THE UAONETISERS. 295
From the aTms of two persons a piece offtesh wu
cut, and mutually transplanted, while still warm
and bleeding. The piece so severed grew to the
new arm on which it wu placed; but still retained
so close a sympathy with its native limb, that its
old possessor was always sensible of any injury done
to it. Upon these transplanted pieces were tat-
tooed the letters of the alphabet; so that, when a
communication was to be made, either of the per-
sons, though the wide Atlantic rolled between them,
had only to prick his arm with a magnetic needle,
and straightway his friend received intimation that
the telegraph was at work. Whatever letter he
pricked on his own arm pained the same letter on
the arm of his correspondent.• Who knows but
this .system, if it bad received proper encourage-
ment, might not have rendered the Post-Office un- -
necessary, and even obviated much of the necessity
for railroads 1 Let modern magnetisers try and
bring it to perfection. It is not more preposterDus
than many of their present notions; and, if carried
into effect, with the improvement of some steno-
graphical expedient for diminishing the number of
punctures,would bemuch more useful than theirplan
of causing persons to read with their great toes,t
or seeing, with their eyes shut, into other people's
bodies, and counting thenumber ofarteries therein.: •
• "Foreign Quarterly Review," vol. xii. p. 417.
t Wirth's " Tbeorie des Somnambulismes," p. 79.
t " Report of the Academie Royale de Medicine,"-caae of
Mademoiselle Celine Sauvage, p. 186.
296 THE MAGNETJSERS.
Contemporary with "Sir Kenelm Digby, was the
1~ ,,(c."'- no less famous Mr. Valentine Greatrak:C who, with..
(! tt.+ ''!·fC- out mentioning magnetism, or laying claim to any
theory, practised upon himself and others a decep-
tion much more akin to the animal magnetism of
the present day, than the mineral magnetism it was
then so much the fashion to study. He was the
son of an Irish gentleman, of good education and
p
,.{,.
J{:...-..
1{..--~ II
fvr. /l. -
- -
·
'- (., property, in the county of Cork. He fell, at an
~ -IV· early age, into a sort of melancholy derangement.
~ After some time, he bad an impulse, or strange
persuasion in his mind, which continued to present
itself, whether he were sleeping or waking, that
God had given him the power of curing the king's
evil. He mentioned this persuasion to his wife,
who very candidly told him that he was a fool! He
was not quite sure of this, notwithstanding the high
authority from which it came, and determined to
make trial of the power that was in him. A few
days afterwards, he went to one William Maher, of
Saltersbridge, in the parish of Lismore, who was
grievously afflicted with the king's evil in his eyes,
cheek, and throat. Upon this man, who was of
11bundant faith, he laid his bands, stroked him, and
prayed fervently. He had the satisfaction to see
him heal considerably in the course of a few days;
and, finally, with the aid of other remedies, to be
quite cured. . This success encouraged him in the
belief that he had a divine mission. Day after day
he had further impulses from on high, that he was
THE MAON.ETISERS. i97
called upon to cure the ague also. In the course of
time he extended his powers to the curing of epi-
lepsy, ulcers, aches, and lameness. All the county
of Cork was in a commotion to see this extraor-
dinary physician, who certainly operated some very
great benefit in cases where the disease was height-
ened by hypochondria and depression of spirits.
According to his own account,• such great mul-
titudes resorted to him from divers places, that he
had no time to foJlow his own business, or enjoy
the company of his family and friends. He was
obliged to set aside three days in the week, from
six in the morning till six at night, during which
time only he laid hands upon all that came. Still
the crowds which thronged around him were so
great, that the neighbouring towns were not able
to accommodate them. He thereupon left his house
in the country, and went to Youghal, where the re-
sort of sick people, not only from all parts of Ire-
land, ~ut from England, continued so great, that
the magistrates were afraid they would infect the
place by their diseases. Several of these poor ere~
dulous people no sooner saw him than they fell into
fits, and he restored them by waving his hand in
their faces, and praying over them. Nay, he af-
firmed, that the touch of his glove had driven pains
away, and, on one occasion, cast out from a woman
several devils, or evil spirits, who tormented her
• Greatraka' Account of himself, in a letter to the Honourable
.Robert- Boyle.
!98 THE MAGNETISERS.
day and night. " Every one of these deTils/' say~
Greatraks, fl was like to choke her, when it came
up into her throat., It is evident, from this, that
the woman's complaint was nothing but hysteria.
The clergy of the diocese of Lismore, who seem
to have had much clearer notions of Greatrab'
pretensions than their parishioners, set their fac.es
against the new prophet and worker of miracles.
He was cited to appear in the Dean's Court, and
prohibited from laying on his hands for the future :
but.he cared nothing for the church. He imagined
that he derived his powers direct from Heaven, and
continued to throw people into fits, and bring them
to their senses again, as usual, almost exactl~ after
the fashion of modern magnetisers. His reputation
became, at last, so great, that Lord Conway sent
to him from London, begging that he "would come
over immediately, to cure a grievous head-ache
which his lady bad suffered for several years, and
which the principal physicians of England had been
unable to relieve.
Greatraks accepted the invitation, and tried his
manipulations and prayers upon Lady Conway.
He failed, however, in affording any relief. The
poor lady's head-ache was excited by causes too
serious to allow her any help, even from faith and
a lively imagination. He lived for some months in
Lord Conway's house, at Ragley, in Warwickshire,
operating cures similar to those he had performed
in Ireland. He afterwards removed to London1
J
THE MAONETISERS. 299
and took a house in Lincoln's Inn· Fields~ which
soon became the daily resort of aU the nervous and
credulous women of the metropolis. A very amus-
ing account of Greatraks at this time (1665), is
given in the second volume of the "MisceJlanies of
- · . . .
~!:._Ev_r~II_l.~~d/' ~~~er t~e_.t!tl~ of the lr~h P.!.~Ph~~·
It is the most graphic sketch ever made of this early
magnetiser. Whether his pretensions were more
or Jess absurd than those ofsome of his successors,
who have lately made their appearance among us,
would be hard to say.
11
When M. de Comminges," says St. Evremond,
u was ambassador from his most Christian Majesty
to the King of Great Britain, there came to Lon-
don an Irish prophet, who passed himself off as a
great worker of miracles. Some persons of quality
having begged M. de Comminges to invite him to
his house, that they might be witnesses of some
of his miracles, the ambassador pr{)mised to satisfy
them, as much from his own curiosity as from cour-
tesy to his friends; and gave notice to Greatraks
that he would be glad to see him.
ct A rumour of the prophet's coming soon spread
all over the town, and the hotel of M. de Com-
minges was crowded by sick persons, who came full
of confidence in their speedy cure. The Irishman
made them wait a considerable time for him, but
came at last, in the midst of their impatience, with
a grave and simple countenance, that showed no
signs of his being a cheat. Monsieur de Com-
300 THE MAGNETISERS.
minges prepared to question him strictly, hoping
to discourse with him on the matters that be bad
read of in Van Helmont and Bodinus ; but he was
not able to do so, much to his regret6 for the crowd
became so great, and cripples and others pressed
around so impatiently to be the first cured6 that
the servants were obliged to use threats, and even
force, before they could establish order among
them, or place them in proper ranks.
'/' u The prophet affirmed that all diseases were
caused by evil spirits. Every infirmity was with
~ him a case of diabolical possession. The first that
was presented to him was a man suffering from
gout and rheumatism, and so severely that the phy-
sicians had been.unable to cure him. 'Ab,' said
the miracle-worker, c I have seen a good deal of
this sort of spirits when I was in Ireland. They
are watery spirits, who bring on cold shivering, and
excite an overflow of aqueous humours in our poor
bodies.' Then addressing the mao, he said, c Evil
spirit, who hast quitted thy dwelling in the waters
to come and afHict this miserable body, I command
thee to quit thy new abode, and to return to thine
ancient habitation!' This said, the sick man was
orde.red to withdraw, and another was brought
forward in his place. This new comer said he
wa.s tormented by the melancholy vapours. In
fact, he looked like a hypochondriac ; one of those
persons diseased in imagination, and who but too ·
often become so in reality. 'lErial spirit,' said
TilE MAGNETISERS. 801
the Irishman, 'return, I command thee; into the
air I -exercise thy natural vocation of raising tem..
pests, and do not excite any more wind in this
sad unlucky body I' This man was immediately
turned away to make room for a third patient,
who, in the Irishman's opinion, was on}y tormented
by a little bit of a sprite, who could not with-
stand his command for an instant. He pretended
that he recognized this sprite by some marks which
were invisible to the company, to whom he turned
with a smile, and said, 6
This sort of spirit does
not often do much harm, and is always very
diverting.' To hear him talk, one would have
imagined that he knew all about spirits- their
names, their rank, their numbers; their employ-
ment, and all the functions they were destined
to ; and he boasted of being much better acquaint-
ed with the intrigues of demons than he was with
the affairs of men. You can hardly imagine what
a reputation he gained in a short time. Catholics
and Protestants visited him from every part, all
believing that power from Heaven was in his
hands.''
After relating a rather equivocal adventure of
a husband and wife, who implored Greatraks to
cast out the devil of dissension which had crept
in between them, St. Evremond thus sums up the
effect he produced on the popular mind : - n So
great was the confidence in him, that the blind
fancied they saw the light which they did not
1\
SOl TUB MAGNBTISBB.S.
see- the deaf imagined that they heard- the
lame that they walked straight., and the paralytic
that they bad recovered the uae of their limbs.
An idea of health made the sick forget for a while
their maladies; and imagination, which was not
less active in those merely drawn by curiosity than
in the sick, gave a false view to the one class,
from the desire of seeing, as it operated a false
cure on the other from the strong desire of being
healed. Such was the power of the Irishman over
the mind, and such was the influence of the mind
upon the body. Nothing was spoken of in London
but his prodigies ; and these prodigies were sup-
ported by such great authorities, that the bewilder-
ed multitude believed them almost without exa-
mination, while more enlightened people did not
dare to reject them from their own knowledge.
The public opinion, timid and enslaved, respected
this imperious and, apparently, well-authenticated
error. Those who saw through the delusion kept
the~r opinion to themselves, knowing bow useless
it was to declare their disbelief to a people filled
with prejudice and admiration."
About the same time that ·Valentine Greatraks
was thus magnetising the people of London, an
Italian enthusiast, named Francisco Bagnone, waa
performing the same tricks in Italy, and with as
great success. He had only to touch weak womeu
with his hands, or sometimes (for the sake.of work-
ing more .efFectively upon their fanaticism) with a
THE . MAGNETISBRS. 808
relic, to··make them fall into fits and manifest all
the symptoms of magnetism.
Besides these, several learned men, in different
parts of Europe, directed their attention to the
study of the magnet, believing it might be ren-
dered efficacious in many diseases. Van Helinont,
in particular, published a work on the eifeets of
magnetism on the human frame ; and Balthazar
Gracian, a Spaniard, rendered himself famous for
the boldness of his views on the subject. " The
magnet," said the latter, u attracts iron; iron is
found everywhere; everything, therefore, is under
the influence of magnetism. It is only a modifi-
cation of the general principle, which establishes
harmony or foments divisions among men. It is
the same agent which gives rise to sympathy, an-
tipathy, and the passions."*
Baptista Porta, who, in the whimsical genealogy
of the·weapon-salve, given by Parson Foster in his
attack upon Dr. aFluctibus, is mentioned as one
of its fathers, had also great faith in the efficacy
of the magnet, and operated upon the ·imagina-
tion of his patients in a manner which was then
considered so extraordinary that he was accused
of being a magician, and prohibited from practis-
ing by the Court of Rome. Among others who
distinguished themselves by their faith in magnet-
ism, Sebastian Wirdig and William Maxwell claim
• rr Introduction to the Study ofAnimal .Magnetism," by Baron
Dupotet de Sennevoy, p. 315.
./
{ I
THE MAGNETISERS.
especial notice. Wirdig was professor of medicine
at the University of Rostock in Mecklenburgh, and
wrote a treatise called" The New Medicine of the
Spirits," which be presented to the Royal Society
of London. An edition of this work was printed
in 1679, in which the author maintained that a
magnetic influ~nce took place, not only between
the celestial and terrestrial bodies, but between
all living things. The whole world, he said, was
under the influence of magnetism : life was pre-
served by magnetism ; death was the consequence
of magnetism r
Maxwell, the other enthusiast, was an admir-
ing disciple of Paracelsus, and boasted that he
had irradiated the obscurity in which too many
of tl1e wonder-woJ'king recipes of that great phi-
losopher were enveloped. His works were print-
ed at Frankfort, in 1679. It would seem, from
the following passage, that he was aware of the
great influence of imagination, as well in the
production as in the cure of diseases. " If you
wish to work prodigies/• says be, '' abstract from
the materiality of beings - increase the sum of
spirituality in bodies-rouse the spirit from its
slumbers. Unless you do one or other of these
things - unless you can bind the idea, you can
never perform anything good or great." Here,
in fact, lies the whole secret of magnetism, and
all delusions of a similar kind : increase the spi-
rituality - roust: the spirit from its slumbers, or
lh
THE M.AGNETISERS. 805
in other words, work upon the imagination-in-
duce belief and blind confidence, and you may do
anything. This passage, which is quoted with ap-
probation by M. Dupotet in a recent work,• as
strongly corroborative of the theory now advanced
by the animal-magnetists, is just the reverse. If
they believe they can work all their wonders by the
means so dimly shadowed forth by Maxwell, what
becomes of the universal fluid pervading all nature,
and which they pretend to pour into weak and dis-
eased bodies from the tips of their fingers?
Early in the eigh~eenth century, the attention of
Europe was directed to a very remarkable instance
offanaticism, which has been claimed by the animal
magnetists, as a proof of their science. The con-
vulaionaries of St. Medard, as they were called,
assembled in great numbers round the tomb of their
favourite saint, the Jansenist priest Paris, and
taught one another how to faU into convulsions.
They believed that St. Paris would cure all their
infirmities; and the number of hysterical women
and weak-minded persons of all descriptions that
flocked to the tomb from far and near was so great,
as daily to block up all the avenues leading to the
spot. Working themselves up to a pitch ofexcite-
ment, tbey went off one after the other into fits,
while some of them, still in apparent possession of
all their faculties, voluntarily exposed themselves to
* "Introduction to the Study of Animal Magnetism," P· SIS.
VOL. III. X
•
S06 THB MAGNETISEU.
suft'eringa, which on ordinary occasions would have
been sufficient to deprive them of life. The scenes
that occurred were a scandal to civilization and to
religion-a strange mixture ofobscenity, absurdity,
and superstition. While some were praying on
• bended knees at the shrine of St. Paris, others were
shrieking and making the most hideous noises.
The women especially exerted them.selves. On one
side of the chapel there might be seen a score of
them, all in conYulsioos, while at another as many
more, excited to a sort of frenzy, yielded them-
selYes up to gross indecencies. Some of them took
an inaane delight in being beaten and trampled
upon. One in particular, according to Montegre,
whose account we quote,• was 110 enraptured with
this ill usage, that nothing hut the hardest blows
would satisfy her. While a fellow of herculean
strength was beating her with all his might with a
heavy bar of iron, she kept continually urging him
to renewed exertion. The harder be struck the
better she liked it, exclaiming all the while, "Well
done, brother ; well done ; oh, how pleasant it is I
what good you are doing me! courage, my bro-.
therJ courage; strike harder ; strike harder stillt,
Another of these fanatics had, if possible, a still
greater love for a beating. Carre de Montgeron,
who relates the circumstance, was unable to satisfy
her with s~ty blows of a large sledge hammer. He
. ·~
• Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales- Article "Convulsion-
naires," par Montcgre•
1\
THE M.AONRTISER.S. 807
afterwards used the same weapon_, with the sam~
degree of strength, for the sake of experiment, and
succeeded in battering a hole in a stone wall at the
tweniy-fifth stroke. Another woman, named Son.
m:t, laid herself down on a red-hot brazier witho11t
tlinching, and acquired for herself the nickname of
the salamander; while others, desirous of a more
illustrious martyrdom, attempted to crucify them-
selves. M. Deleuze, in his critical history of Ani-
mal Magnetism, attempts to prove that this fana·
tical frenzy was produced by magnetism, and tha~
these mad enthusiasts magnetised each other with-
out being aware ofit. As well might he insist that
the fanaticism which tempts the Hindoo bigot to
keep his arms stretched in a horizontal po8ition till
'the sinews wither, or his fingers closed upon his
palms till the nails grow out of the backs of his
hands, is also an effect of magnetism!
For a per,iod of sixty or seventy years, magnetism
was almost wholly confined to Germany. Men of
sense and learning devot·ed their attention to the
properties of the loadstone ; and one Father Hell, a
jesuit, and professor of astronomy at the University
ofVienna, rendered himself famous by his magnetic
cures. About the year 1771 or 1772, he invented
steel plates ofa peculiar form, which he applied to
the naked body, as a cure for several diseases. In
the year 1774, he communicated his system to
Anthony Mesmer. The latter improved upon the
ideas of Father Hell, constructed a new theory of
x2
1\ I I I
.
808 THE MAONETISER.S.
his own, and became the founder of ANIMAL MA.G.
NETISM..
It has been the fashion among the enemies of the
new delusion to decry Mesmer as an unprincipled
adventurer_, while his disciples have extolled him to
the skies as a regenerator of the human race. In
nearly the same words, as the Rosicrucians applied
to their founders, he has been called the discoverer
of the secret which brings man into more intimate
connexion with his Creator; the deliverer of the
soul from the debasing trammels of the flesh ; the
man who enables us to set time at defiance, and
conquer the obstructions of space. A careful sift~
ing of his pretensions-and examination ofthe evi-
dence brought forward to sustain them, will l)oon
show which opinion is the more correct. That the
writer of these pages considers him in the light of
a man, who deluding himself, was the means of
deluding others, may be inferred from his nnding a
place in these volumes, and figuring among the
Flamels, the Agrippas, the Borris, the Boohmens,
and the Cagliostros.
He was born in May 1784, at Mershurg, in
Swabia, and studied medicine at the University of
Vienna. He took his degrees in 1766, and chose
the influence of the planets on the human body as
the subject of his inaugural dissertation. Having
treated the matter quite in the style of the old
astrological physicians, he was exposed to some
ridicule both then and afterwards. Even at this
THE MAGNETISERS. 309
early period some faint ideas of his great theory
were germinating in his mind. He maintained in
his dissertation, " that the sun, moon, and fixed
stars mutua11y affect each other in their orbits;
that they cause and direct in our earth a flux and
reflux not only in the sea, but in the atmQsphere,
and affect in a similar manner all organized bodies
through the medium of a subtile and mobile fluid,
which pervades the universe and associates all
things together in mutua) intercourse and har-
mony." This influence, he said, was particularly
exercised on the nervous system, and produced two
states which he called intension and remission, which
seemed to him to account for the different peri-
odical revolutions observable in several maladies.
When in after-life he met with Father Hell, he was •
confirmed by that person's observations in the truth
of many of his own ideas. Having caused Hell to
make him some magnetic plates, he determined to
try experiments with them himself for his further
satisfaction.
He tried accordingly, and was astonished at his
success. The faith of their wearers operated won-
ders with the metallic plates. Mesmer made due
reports to Father Hell of all he had done, and the
latter published them as the results of his own
happy invention, and speaking of Mesmer as a
physician whom he had employed to work under
him. Mesmer took offence at being thus treated,
considering himself a far greater personage than
1\ I
•
810 THE MAGNBTISU~
Father Hell. He elaimed the invention as his own,
accused Hell or a breach or confidence, and stig-
matized him as a mean person, anxious to tum the
aiscoftries of others to his own account. Hell re-
plied, and a very pretty quarrel was the result,
which afforded small talk for months to the .literati
Gf Vienna. Hell ultimately gained the nctory.
Mesmer, nothing daunted, continued to promul-
gate his views, till he stumbled at last upon the
animal theory.
One of his patients was a young lady named
Oesterline, who suffered under a convulsive malady.
Her attacks were periodical, and attended by a
rus~J..of blood to the bead, followed by delirium and
syncope. These symptoms be soon succeeded in
reducing under his system of planetary influence•
and imagined he could foretell the periods of acces-
sion and remission. Having thus accounted satis-
factorily to himself for the origin of the disease, the
idea struck him that be could operate a eertain
cure, if be could ascertain beyond doubt what be
had long believed, that there existed between the
bodies which compose our globe, an action equally
reciprocal and similar to that ofthe heavenly bodies,
by means of which he ·could imitate artificially the
periodical revolutions of the flux and reflux before-
mentioned. He soon convinced himself that this
llction did exist. When trying the metallic plates
of Father Hell, he thought their efficacy depended
on their form ; but he found afterwards that ·he
THE MAGNETISERS. 311
could produce the same .efFects without using them
at all, merely by passing his hands downwards to-
wards the feet of the patient-even when at a con·
siderable .distance.
This completed the theory of Mesmer. He wrote
an account of his discovery to all the learned
societies of Europe, soliciting their investigation.
The Academy of Sciences at Berlin was the only
one that answered him, and their answer was any·
thing but favourable to his system or flattering
to himself. Still he was not discouraged. He
maintained to all who would listen to him that
the magnetic matter, or fluid, pervaded all the
universe-that every human body contained it,
and could communicate the superabundance of it
to another by an exertion of the will. Writing
to a friend from Vienna, he said," I have observed
that the magnetic is almost the same thing as
the electric fluid, and that it may be propagated
in the same manner, by means of intermediate
bodies. Steel is not the only substance adapted
to this purpose. I have rendered paper, bread,
wool, silk, stones, leather, glass, wood, men, and
dogs- in short, everything I touched, magnetic to
such a degree that these substances produced the
same effects as the loadstone on diseased persons.
I have charged jars with magnetic; matter in the
same way as is done with electricity."
Mesmer did not long find his residence at Vienna
as agreeable as he wished. His ·pretensions weJ:e
, I
812 THE MAGNETISERS.
looked upon with contempt or indift'erence, and the
case of Mademoise11e OesterJine brought him less
fame than notoriety. He determined to change
his sphere of action, and travelled into Swabia and
Switzerland. In the latter country he met with
the celebrated Father Gassner, who, like Valentine
Greatraks, amused himself by casting out devils,
and healing the sick. by merely laying hands upon
them. At his approach puling girls fell into con~
vulsions, and the hypochondriac fancied themselves
cured. His house was daily besieged by the lame,
the blind, and the hysteric. Mesmer at once ac-
knowledged the efficacy of his cures, and declared
that they were the obvious result of his own newly-
discovered power of magnetism. A few of the
Father's patients were forthwith subjected to the
manipulations of Mesmer, and the same symptoms
were induced. He then tried his hand upon some
paupers in the hospitals of Berne and Zurich, and
succeeded, according to his own account, but no
other person's, in curing an opththalmia and a
gutta serena. With memorials of these achieve-
ments he returned to Vienna, in the hope of silen-
cing his enemies, or at least forcing them to respect
his newly-acquired reputation, and to examine his
system more attentively.
His second appearance in that capital was not
more auspicious than the first. He undertook to
cure a Mademoiselle Paradis, who was quite blind,
and subject to convulsions. He magnetised her
1\ I I
.
THE MAONETISERS. 318
several times, and then declared that she was
cured ; at least, if she was not, it was her fault,
and not his. An eminent oculist of that day,
named Barth, went to visit her, and declared that
sh-
e was as blind as ever ; while her family said
she was as much subject to convulsions as before.
Mesmer persisted that she was cured. Like the
French philosopher, he would not allow facts to
interfere with his theory.• He declared that
there was a conspiracy against him ; and that
Mademoiselle Paradis, at the instigation of her
family, feigned blindness in order to injure his
reputation !
The consequences of this pretended cure taught
Mesmer that Vienna was not the sphere for him.
Paris, the idle, the debauched, the pleasure-hunt-
ing, the novelty-loving, was the scene for a philo-
sopher like him, and thither he repaired accord~
ingly. He arrived at Paris in 1778, and began
modestly, by making himself and l1is theory known
to the principal physicians. At first, his encou-
ragement was but slight ; be found people more
inclined to laugh at than to patronise him. But
he was a man who had great confidence in himself,
• An enthusiastic philosopher, of whose name we are not in-
formed, had constructed a very satisfactory theory on some subject
or other, and was not a little proud of it. " But the facts, my
dear fellow," said his friend, " the &eta do not agree with your
theo:ry."-" Don't they," replied the philosopher, shnlgging hit
shoulders, "then, tant pis pour lea faits;"- so much the worse for
the facts.
{ 1\ I
THE MAGNETIS~RS.
and of a perseverance wbieh no diffieulties oould
overcome. He hired a sumptuous apartment, which
he opened to all comers who chose to make trial
of the new power of nature. M. D'Eslon, a phy-
sician of great reputation, became a conTert; and
from that time) Animal Magnetiam, or* as some
ealled it, Mesmerism, became the fashion in PariJA
The women were quite enthusiastic about it, and
their admiring tattle wafted its fame through every
grade of soc:iety. Mesmer was ~pe rage ; and high
and low, rich and poor, credulow and unbelieving,
aU hastened to convince themselves of the power
of this mighty magician, who made such mag-
nificent promises. Mesmer, who knew as well as
any man living the influence of the imagination,
determined that, on that score, nothing should be
wanting to heighten the effect of the magnetic
eharm. In all Paris, there was not a house so
eharmingly furnished as Monsieur Mesmer's. Rich-
ly-stained glass shed a dim religious light on his
spacious saloons, which were almost covered with
mirrors. Orange blossoms scented all the air of
his corridors ; incense of the most expensive kinds
burned in antique vases on his chimney-piecea ;
eolian harps sighed melodious music from distant
chambers; while sometimes a sweet female voice,
ftom above or below, stole softly upon the mys-
terious silence that was kept in the house, nd
insisted upon from all visitors. " Was ever any-
thing so delightful f" cried all the Mrs. WiUi~ter-
THE MAONETlSERS. 515
ley's of Paris, as they thronged to his house in
search of pleasant excitement ; " so wonderful!"
said the pseudo-philosophers, who would believe
anything if it were the fashion; " 80 amuaing !" said
the worn-out debauchees, who had drained the cup
of sensuality to its dregs, and who longed to see
lovely women in cqnvulsions, with the hope that
they might gain some new emotions from the sight.
The following was the mode of operation : -In
the centre of the saloon was placed an oval vessel,
about'four feet in its )Qngest diameter, and one foot
deep. In this were laid a number of wine-bottles,
fiJled with magnetised water, well corked...up, and
disposed in radii, with their necks outwards. Water
was then poured into the vessel so as just to cover
the bottles, and filings of iron were thrown in
occasionally to heighten the magnetic eifect. The
vessel was then covered with an iron cover, pierced
through with many holes, and was called the ha-
quet. From each hole issued a long moveable rod
of iron, which the patients were to apply to auch
parts of their bodies as were aftlicted. Around
this baquet the patients were directed to sit, hold..
ing each other by the hand, and pressing their
knees together as closely as possible to facilitate
the passage of the magnetic fluid from one to the
other.
Then came in the assistant magnetisers, gene-
rally strong, handsome young men, to pour into
the patient from their finger-tips fresh streams of
816 THE MAGNETISERS.
the wondrous fiuid. They embraced the patients
between the knees, rubbed them gently down the
spine and the course of the nerves, using gentle
pressure upon the breasts of the ladies, and staring
them out of countenance to magnetise them by
the eye ! AU this time the most rigorous silence
was maintained, with the exception of a few wild
notes on the harmonica or the piano-forte, or the
melodious voice of a hidden opera-singer swelling
softly at long intervals. Gradually the cheeks ofthe
ladies began to glow, their imaginations to become
inflamed ; and off they went, one after the other,
in convulsive fits. Some of them sobbed and tore
their hair, others laughed till the tears ran from
their eyes, while others shrieked and screamed and
yelled till they became insensible altogether.
This was the crisis of the delirium. In the midst
of it, the chief actor made his appearance, waving
his wand, like Prospero, to work new wonders.
Dressed in a long robe of lilac-coloured silk, richly
embroidered with gold flowers, Qea.ring in his hand
a white magnetic rod; and, with a look of dig-
nity which would have sat well on an eastern
caliph, he marched with solemn strides into the
room. He awed the still sensible by his eye, and
the violence of t~eir symptoms diminished. He
stroked the insensible with his hands upon the eye-
brows and down the spine ; traced figures upon
their breast and abdomen with his long white wand,
and they were restored to consciousness. They be-
THE MAGNETISERS. 317
·came calm, acknowledged his power, and said they
felt streams of cold or burning vapour passing
through their frames, according as be waved his
wand or his fingers before them.
11
It is impossible," says M. Dupotet, 11
to con-
ceive the sensation which Mesmer's experiments
created in Paris. No theological controversy, in
the earlier ages of the Catholic Church, was ever
conducted with greater bitterness." His adversa-
ries denied the discovery; some calling him a quack,
others a fool, and others, again, like the Abbe
Fiard, a man who had sold himself to the devil !
.His friends were as extravagant in their praise, as
his foes were in their censure. Paris was inun-
dated with pamphlets upon the subject, as many
defending as attacking the doctrine. .At court, the
Queen expressed herself in favour ofit, and nothing
else was to be heard ofin society.
By the advice of M. D'Eslon, Mesmer challenged
an examination of his doctrine by the Faculty of
Medicine. He proposed to select twenty-four pa-
tients, twelve of whom he would treat magnetically,
leaving the other twelve to be treated by the
faculty according to the old and approved methods.
He also stipulated, that to prevent disputes, tl1e
government should nominate certain persons who
were not physicians, to be present at the experi-
ments; and that the object of the inquiry should
be, not how these effects were produced, but whether
they were really efficacious in the cure of any dis-
SIS THE M.AGNETISERS.
ease. The faculty objected to limit the inquiry
in this manner, and the proposition fell to the
ground.
Mesmer now wrote to Marie Antoinette, with the
view of securing her intluence in obtaining for him
the protection of government. He wilbed to have
a. chateau and ita lands given to him, with a hand-
some yearly income, that be might be enabled to
continue his experiments at leisure, untroubled by
the persecution of his enemies. He hinted the duty
of governments to support men of science, and ex-
pressed his fear, that if be met no more encourage-
ment, he should be compelled to carry his great
discovery to some other land more willing to ap-
preciate him. "In the eyes of your Majesty," said
he, " four or five hundred thousand francs, applied
to a good purpose, are of no account. The welfare
and happiness of your people are everything. My
discovery ought to be received and rewarded with
a munificence worthy of the monarch to whom I
shall attach myself." The government at last of-
fered him a pension of twenty thousand francs, and
the cross of the order of St. Michael, if he had
made any discovery in medicine, and would com-
municate it to physicians nominated by the King.
The latter part ofthe proposition was not agreeable
to Mesmer. He feared the unfavourable report of
the King's physicians; and, breaking off the nego-
tiation, spoke of his disregard of money, and hiJ
wish to have his discovery at once recognised by
the government. He then retired to Spa, in a fit
1\
THE MAGNETISERS. 819
of disgust, upon pretence of drinking the waters for
the benefit of his health.
After he bad left Paris, the Faculty of Medicine
called upon M. D'Eslon, for the third and last time,
to renounce the doctrine ofanimal magnetism, or be
expelled from their body. M. D'Eslon, so far from
doing this, declared that he bad discovered new se-
crets, and solicited further examination. A royal
commission of the Faculty of Medicine was, in con-
sequence, appointed on the 12th of March 1784,
seconded by another commission of the Academie
des Sciences, to investigate the phenomena and re-
port upon them. The first commission was com-
po~d of the principal physicians of Paris; while,
among the eminent men comprised in the latter,
were Benjamin Franklin, Lavoisier, and Bailly, the
historian of astronomy. Mesmer was formally in-
vited to appear before this body, but absented him-
self from day to day, upon one pretence or another.
M. n•Eslon was more honest, because be thoroughly
believed in the phenomena, which it is·to be ques-
tioned if Mesmer ever did, and regularly attended
the sittings and performed experiments.
Bailly has thus described the scenes of which he
wa·
s a witness in the course of this investigation.
"The sick persons, arranged in great numbers and
in several rows around the baquet, receive the mag-
netism by all these means: by the iron rods which
convey it to them from the baquet-by the cords
wound round their bodies-by the conn~ction of
the thumb, which conveys to them the magnetism
1\ I I
.
--~
S20 TUE MAGNETISERS.
of their neighbours-and by the sounds of a piano-
forte, or of an agreeable voice, diffusing the mag-
netism in the air. The patients were also directly
magnetised by means ofthe finger and wand of the
magnetiser moved slowly before their faces, above
or behind their beads, and on the diseased parts,
always observing the direction of the holes. The
magnetiser acts by fixing his eyes on them. But
above all, they are magnetised by the application
of his hands and the pressure of his fingers on the
hypochondres and on the regions of the abdomen ;
an application often continued for a long time-.-
sometimes for several hours.
'' Meanwhile the patients in their difFerent con-
ditions present a very varied picture. Some are
calm, tranquil, and experience no efFect. Others
cough, spit, fe.el slight pains, local or general heat,
and have sweatings. Others again are agitated and
tormented with convulsions. These convulsions are
remarkable in regard to the number affected with
them, to their duration and force. As soon as one
begins to be convulsed, several others are affected.
The commissioners have obsened some of these
convulsions last more than three hours. They are
accompanied with expectorations of a muddy vis-
cous water, brought away by violent efForts. Some-
times streaks of blood have been observed in this
fluid. These convulsions are characterized by the
precipitous, involuntary motion of all the Jimbs,
and of ~be whole body: by the construction of the
THE MAGNETISERS. 821
throat-by the leaping motions of the hypochondria
and the epigastrium-by the dimness and wan-
dering of the eyes -by piercing shrieks, tears,
sobbing, and immoderate laughter. They are pre-
ceded or followed by a state of languor or reverie,
a kind of depression, . and sometimes drowsiness.
The smallest sudden noise occasions a shuddering;
and it was remarked, that the change of measure in
the airs played on the piano-forte had a great in.
fluence on the patients. A quicker motion, a live-
lier melody, agitated them more, and renewed the
vivacity of their convulsions.
"Nothing is more astonishing than the spectacle
of these convulsions. One who has not seen them
can form no idea of them. The spectator is as
much astonished at the profound repose of one por-
tion of the patients as at the agitation ofthe rest-
at the various accidents which are repeated, and
at the sympathies which are exhibited. Some of
the patients may be seen devoting their attention
exclusively to one another, rushing towards each
other with open arms, smiling, soothing, and m.ani-
festing every symptom of attachment and affection.
All are under the power of the magnetiser; it
matters not in what state of drowsiness they may
be, the sound of his voice-a look, a motion of his
.hand-brings them out of it. Among the patients
in convulsions there are always observed a great
many women, and very few men."•
• Rapport dee Commi88&irea, rMige par M. Bailly.-Parie, 1784~
VOL. Ill. Y
THE MAGNETISERS.
These experiments lasted for about five months.
They bad hardly commenced, before Mesmer,
alarmed at the loss both of fame and profit, de-
termined to return to Paris. Some patients of
rank and fortune, enthusiastic believers in his doc-
trine, had followed him to Spa. One of them
named Bergasse, proposed to open a subscription
for him, of one hundred shares, at one hundred
louis each, on condition that be would disclose his
secret to the subscribers, who were to be permitted
to make whatever use they pleased of it. Mesmer
readily embraced the proposal ; and such was the
infatuation, that the subscription was not only filled·
in a few days, but exceeded by no less a sum than
one hundred and forty thousand francs.
With this fortune he returned to Paris, and re-
commenced his experiments, while the royal com-
mission continued theirs. · His admiring pupils,
who had paid him so handsomely for his instructions,
spread the delusion over the country, and esta-
blished in all the principal towns of France, " So-
cieties of Harmony," for trying experiments and
curing all diseases by means of magnetism. Some
of these societies were a scandal to morality, being
joined by profligate men of depraved appetites,
who took a disgusting delight in witnessing young
girls in convulsions. Many ofthe pretended mag-
netisers were notorious libertines, who took that
opportunity of gratifying their passions. An illegal
increase of the number of French citizens was any-
THE MAGNETISERS.
· .thing but a rare consequence in Strasburg, Nantes,
Bourdeaux, Lyons, and other towns~ where these
societies were established.
At last the Commissioners published their report,
which was drawn up by the illustrious and un-
fortunate Bailly. For clearness of reasoning and
strict impartiality it has never been surpassed.
After detailing the various experiments made, and
their results, they aame to the conclusion that
the· only proof advanced in support of. Animal
Magnetism was the effects it produced on the
human body- that .those effects could be pro-
duced without passes or. other .ma.gnetic manipu-
lations- that all these manipulations, and passes,
and ceremonies never produce any effect. at all ·if
employed without the patient's knowledge; and
that therefore imagination did, and animal mag-
netism did not, account for the phenomena.
This report was the,ruin of Mesmer's reputation
in France. He quitted Paris shortly .after, with
the three hundred and forty thousand .francs whreh
had been subscribed by his admirers, and retired
to his own country, where be died in 1815, nt the
advanced age of eighty-one. . But the seeds he had
sownfructified ofthemselves, nou:
tished and brought
to maturity by the kindly warmth of popular cre-
dulity. Imitators sprang. up in France,.Germany,
and England, more extnvagant than their master,
and claiming power.s for the new science which its
founder had never dreamt of. Among others,
Y!a
,r
I
THE MAGNETISERS.
Cagliostro made good use of the delusion in ex-
tending his claims to be considered a master of
the occult sciences. But he made no discoveries
worthy to be compared to those of the Marquis
.de Puysegur and the Chevalier Barbarin, honest
men, who began by deceiving themselves before
they deceived others.
The Marquis de Puysegur, the owner of a con-
siderable estate at Busancy, was one of those who
had entered into the subscription for Mesmer.
After that individual had quitted France, he re-
tired to Busancy with his brother to try Animal
Magnetism upon his tenants, and cure the country
people of all manner of diseases. He was a man
of great simplicity and much benevolence, and not
only magnetised but fed the sick that flocked around
him. In all the neighbourhood, and indeed within
a circumference oftwenty miles, he was looked upon
as endowed with a power almost Divine. His great
discovery, as be called it, was made by chance.
One day he had magnetised his gardener ; and ob-
serving him to fall into a deep sleep, it occurred to
him that be would address a question to him, as he
would have done to a natural somnambulist. He
did so, and the man replied with much clearness and
prectsJon. M. de Puysegur was agreeably sur-
prised : he continued his experiments, and found
that, in t~is state of magnetic somnambulism, the
soul of the sleeper was enlarged, and brcught into
.THE MAGNETISERS. 825
more intimate communion with oil nature, and more
especially with him, M. dePuysegur. He found that
all further manipulations were unnecessary; that,
without speaking or making any sign, he could
convey his will to the patient ; that he could, in
fact, converse with him, soul to soul, without the
employment of any physical operation whatever !
Simultaneously with this marvellous discovery
be made another, which reflects equal credit upon
his understanding. Like Valentine Greatraks, be
found it bard work to magnetise all that came-
that he had not even time to take the repose
and relaxation which were necessary for his
health. In this emergency he hit upon a clever
expedient. He had heard Mesmer say that ·he
could magnetise bits of wood- why should he not
be able to magnetise a whole tree? It was no
sooner thought than done. There was a large elm
·on the village green at Busancy, under which the
peasant girls used to dance on festive occasions,
and the old men to sit, drinking their vin du pays
on the fine ~JUtilmer evenings. M. de Puysegur
proceeded to this tree and magnetised it, by first·
touching it with his hands and then retiring a few
ateps from it ; all the while diTecting streams of
the magnetic fluid from the branches toward the
trunk, and from the trunk toward the root. This
done, he caused circular seats to be erected round
it, and cords suspended froni it in all directions.
S26 THE MAGNETlSERS.
When the patienta bad seated themselves; they
twisted the cords round the diseased parts of their
bodies; and held one another firmly by their thumbs
to:form a direct channel of communication for the
passage of the fluid.
M. de Puysegur had now two hobbies~ the man
with the enlarged soul, and the magnetic elm.
The infatuation of himself and his patients cannot
be better expressed than in his own words. Writiog
to his brother, on the 17th of May 178~. he says,
f ' If you do not come, my dear friend, you will not
see ·my extraordiDary man, for his health is now
almost quite restored. I continue to make use of
the happy power for which I am indebted to M.
Mesmer. Every day I bless his n,me; for I am
very useful, and produce. many salutary effects on
all the sick poor in the .neighbourhood. They
flock·around my tr.ee; there.were more than one
hundred and thirty of them this morning. It ia
the beat baquet possible ; .not a leaf of it but com-
municate• health ! all feel, m.ore or less, the good
dfects of it. You will ~ delighted to see the
·charming picture of humanity which this presents.
I have only one regret- it is, that I cannot touch
all who come. But my magnetised man-my in-
telligence-sets me at ease. He teaches me what
conduct I should adopt. According to him, it is
not at aJI necessary that I should touch every one ;
a look, a gesture, even a wish, i~ sufficient. And
it is one of the most ignorant peasants of the coun-
1\
THE MAGNETISERS. 827
try that teaches me this I When be is in a crisis,
I know of nothing m.ore profound, more prudent,
more clear.sighted (clairvoyant) than he is."
In another letter, describing his first experiment
with the magnetic tree, he says, "Yester evening
I brought my first patient to it. As soon as I had
put the cord round him he gazed at the tree ; and,
with an air of astonishment. which I cannot de-
scribe, .exclaimed, ~ What is it that I see there?'
His head then sunk down, and be fell into a perfect
nt of somnambulism. At the end ofan hour, I took
him home to his house again, when I restored him
to his senses. Several men and women came to
tell him what he had been doing. He maintained
it was not true; that, weak as he was, and scarcely
able to walk, it would have been scarcely possible
for him to have gone down stairs and walked to
the tree. To-day I have repeated the experiment
on him, and with the same success. I own to you
that my head turns round with pleasure to think of
the good I do. Madame de Puysegur, the friends
she has with her, my servants, and, in fact, all who
are near me, feel an amazement, mingled with admir-
ation, which cannot be described; but they do not
experience the half of my sensations. Without my
tree, whichgives me rest, and which will give me still
more, I should be in a state of agitation, incon-
sistent, I believe, with my health. I exist too
much, if I may be allowed to use the expression."
In another letter, he descants still more poeti-
328 THE .MAGNETISE.BS.
cally upon his gardener with the enlarged souL
He says, u It is from this simple man, th~s tall and
stout rustic, twenty-three years of age, enfeebled
by disease, or rather by sorrow, and therefore the
more predisposed to be affected by any great natu-
ral agent,- it is from this man, I repeat, that I
derive instruction and knowledge. When in the
magnetic state, he is no longer a peasant who
can hardly utter a single sentence ; he is a being,
to describe whom I cannot find a name. I need
not speak; I have only to think before him, wlien he
instantly U11derstands and anawera me. Should any-
body come into the room, he sees him, if I desire
it (but not else), and addresses him, and says what
1 wish him to say; not indeed exactly as I dictate
to him, but·as truth requires. When he wants to
add more than I deem it prudent strangers should
hear, I stop the flow of his ideas, and of his con-
versation in the middle of a word, and give it quite
a different turn !"
Among other persons attracted to Busancy by
the report of these extraordinary occurrences was
M. Cloquet, the Receiver of Finance. His appe..
tite for the marvellous being somewhat insatiable,·
he readily believed all that was told hi~ by M. de
Puysegur. He also has left a record of what he
saw, and what he credited, which throws a still
clearer light upon the progress of the delusion.~
• <i fntroduction to the Study ofAnimal Magnetism," by Baron
Dupotet, p. 7s. ·
TilE MAGNETISERS. 329
He says that the patients he saw in the magnetic
state had an appearance of deep sleep, during
which all the physical faculties were suspended, to
the advantage of the intellectual faculties. The
eyes of the patients were closed; the sense of hear-
ing was abolished, and they awoke only at the
voice of their magnetiser. 11
If any one touched a
patient during a crisis, or even the chair on which
he was seated," says M. Cloquet, "it would cause
him much pain and sufFering, and throw him into
convulsions. During the crisis, they possess an ex-
traordinary and supernatural power, by which, on
touching a patient presented to them, they can feel
what part of his b~dy is diseased, even by merely
passing their hand over the clothes." Another sin-
gularity was, that these sleepers who could thus
discover diseases- see into the interior of other.
men•s stomachs, and point out remedies, remem-
bered absolutely nothing after the magnetiser
thought proper to disencbant them. The time
that elapsed between their entering the crisis and
their coming out of it was obliterated. Not only
had the magnetiser the power of making himself
heard by the somnambulists, but he could make
them follow him by merely pointing his finger at
them from a distance, though they had their eyes
the whole time completely closed.
Such was Animal Magnetism under the auspices
of the Marquis de Puysegur. While be was ex..
hibiting these fooleries around his elm·tree, a mag..
380 THE MAGNETISERS.
netiser of another claas appeared in Lyons, in the
person of the Chevalier de Barbarin. This person
thought the effort of the ·wi11, without any of the
paraphernalia of wands or ·haquets, was sufficient
to throw patients into the magnetic sleep. He
tried it and succeeded. By sitting at the bedside
of his patients, and praying that they might be
magnetised; they went off into a state very similar
to that of the persons who fell under the notice of
M. de Puysegur. In the course oftime, a very con·
siderable number of magnetisers, acknowledging
Barbarin for their model, and called after him Bar-
barinists, appeared in difterent parts, and were be-
lieved to have effected some remarkable cures. In
Sweden and Germany, this seet of fanatics.increased
rapidly, and were called apit·itualists,.to distinguish
them from the followers of M. de Puysegur, who
were called erperimentaliats. They maintained that
all the effects of Animal Magnetism, which Mesmer
believed to be producible by a magnetic fluid dis-
pened through nature, were produced by the mere
effort of one human soul acting upon another; that
when.a connexion· had once been established be-
tween a magnetiser and his patient, the former
could communicate his influence to the latter from
any distance, even hundreds of miles, by the will I
One of them thus described the blessed state of
a magnetic patient :-" In such a man animal in-
stinct ascends to the highest degree admissible in
this world. The clairvoyant is then a pure animal,
THE M.A:GNETIS.ERS. 881
without any admixture of matter. His observa-
tions are those of a spirit. He is similar to God.
His. eye penetrates all the secrets of nature. When
his attention is fixed on any of the objects of this
world-on his disease, his death, his well-beloved,
his friends, his relations, his enemies,-in spirit he
sees them acting ; he penetrates into the causes and
the consequences of their actions ; he becomes a
physician, a pr.ophet, a divine !"*
Let us now see what progress these mysteries
made in England. In the year 1788, Dr. Mainau-
duc, who had been a pupil, first of Mesmer, and
afterwards 9f D'Eslon, arrived in Bristol, and gave
public lectures upon magnetism.· His success was
quite extraordinary. People of rank and fortune
hastened from London .to Bristol to be magnetised,
or to place themselves under his tuition. Dr.
George Winter, in his History of Animal Mag-
netism, gives the following list of them :-" They
amounted to one hundred and twe~~y-seven, among
whom there were one duke, one duchess, one mar-
chioness, two countesses, one earl, one baron, three
baronesses, one bishop, five right honourable gen..
tlemen and ladies, two baronets, seven members
of parliament, one clergyman, two physicians, sevea
surgeons, besides ninety-two gentlemen and ladies
of respectability.'' He afterwards established him-
• See " Foreign Review; Continental Miscellany," vol. v•.p.
118.
88i THE MAGNETISERS.
self in London, where be performed with equal
success.
He began by publishing proposals to the ladies
Cor the formation of a Hygeian Society. In this
paper be vaunted highly the curative effects of
Animal Magnetism, and took great credit to him-
self for being the first person to introduce it into
England, and thus concluded :-"As this method of
cure is not confined to sex, or college education,
and the fair sex being in general the most sympa-
thising part of the creation, and most immediate1y
concerned in the health and care of its offspTing,
I think myself bound in gratitude to you, ladies,
for the partiality you have shown me in midwifery,
to contribute, as far as lies in my power, to render
you additionally useful .and valuable to the com-
munity. With this view, I propose forming my
Hygeian Society, to be incorporated with that of
Paris. As soon as twenty ladies have given in
their names, the day shaH be appointed for the
first meeting at my house, when they are to pay
fifteen guineas, wbicb will include the whole ex..
pense."
Hannah More, in a letter addressed to HoTace
Wa1poJe, in September 1788, speaks of the u de..
moniacal mummeries" of Dr. Mainauduc, and says
he was in a fair way of gaining a hundred._thousand
pounds by them, as Mesmer bad done by his ex-
hibitions in Paris.
' So much curiosity was excited by the subject
THE MAGNETISERS. 388
·that, about the same time, a mnn, named Hollo-
way, gave a course of lectures on Animal Mag-
netism hi London, at the rate of five guineas for
each pupil, and realised a considerable fortune.
Loutherbourg, the painter, and his wife followed
the same profitable trade ; and such was the infa-
tuation of the people to be witnesses of their
strange manipulations, that, at times, upwards of
three thousand persons crowded around their house
at Hammersmith, unable to gain admission. The
tickets sold at prices varying from one to three
guineas. Loutherbourg performed his cures by
the touch, after the manner of Valentine Great-
raks, and finally pretended to a Divine mission.
An account of his miracles, as they were called,
was published in 1789, entitled cr A List of New
Cures performed by Mr. and Mrs. de Loutherbourg
of Hammersmith Terrace, without Medicine; by a
·Lover of the Lamb of God. Dedicated to his
Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury."
This n Lover of the Lamb of God" was a half-
crazy oldwoman, named Mary Pratt, who conceived
for Mr. and Mrs. de Loutherbourg a veneration
which almost prompted her to worship them. · She
chose for the motto of her pamphlet a verse in
the thirteenth chapter of the Acts of the Apostles :
11
Behold, ye despisers, and wonder and perish I for
I will work a work in your days which ye shall not
believe though a man declare it unto you." At-
tempting to give a religious character to the cures
,
\ 1\ I J I
THE MAGNETISERS.
of the painter, she thought a woman was the proper
person to make them known, since the apostle had
declared that a man abould not be able to con-
quer the incredulity of the people. She stated
that, from Christmas 1788 to July 1789, De Louth-
erbourg and his wife bad cured two _
thousand peo-
ple, u having been made p1·oper recipients to receive
Divine manuductions; which heavenly and Divine
influx, coming from the radix God, his Divine Ma.
jesty bad most graciously bestowed upon them to
diffuse healing to all, be they deaf, dumb, blind,
lame, or halt."
In her dedication to the Archbishop of Canter-
bury, she implored him to compose a hew form
of prayer to be used in all churchea and chapels,
that nothing might impede this inestimable gift
from having its due course. She further en'..
treated all the magistrates and men of authority
in the land to wait on Mr. and Mrs. de Louther-
bourg, to consult with them on the immediate
erection of a large hospital, with a pool of Bethesda
attached · to it. AU the magnetisers were scan-
dalised at the preposterous jabber of'this old wo-
man, and De Loutberborirg appears ·to have left
London to avoid her; continuing, however, in con-
junction with his wife, the fantastic tricks which
bad turned the brain of this poor fanatic, and
deluded many others who pretended to more ·sense
than she had.
From this period until 1798, magnetism excited
THE MAGNETISERS. SS5
little or no attention in England. An attempt to
revive the doctrine was made in that year, but it
was in the shape of mineral rather than of animal
magnetism. One Benjamin Douglas Perkins, an
American, practising as a surgeon in Leicester-
square, invented and took out -a patent for the ce-
lebrated " Metallic Tractors." He pretended that
these tractors, which were two small pieces of metal
strongly magnetised, something resembling the
steel plates which were first brought into notice by
Father Hell, would cure gout, rheumatism, palsy,
and in fact, almost every di.sease the human frame
was subject to, if applied externally to the afflicted
part, and moved about gently~ touching the sur-
face only. The mo..st wonderful stories soon ob-
tainedgeneralcirculation, and the press groaned with
pamphlets, all vaunting the curative effects of the
tractors, which were sold at .five guineas the pair.
Perkins gained money rapidly. Gouty subjects
forgot their pains in the presence of this new
remedy ; the rheumatism fled at its approach; and
toothache, which is often cured by the mere sight
of a dentist, vanished before Perkins and his mar-
vellous steel plates. The benevolent Quakers, of
whose body he was a member, warmly patronised
the invention. Desirous that the poor, who could
not afford to pay Mr. Perkins five guineas, or even
five shillings, for his t.ract.ors, should also share in
the benefits of that sublime discovery, they sub-
scribed a large sum.. and built an hospital, called
,
I
886 TilE MAGNETTSERS".
the u Perkinean Institution," in which all comers
might be magnetised free of cost. In the course of
a few months they were in very general use, and
their lucky inventor in possession of five thousand
pounds.
Dr. Haygarth, an eminent physician at Bath, re-
collecting the influence of imagination in the cure
of disease, hit upon an expedient to try the real
value of the tractors. Perkins's cures were too
well established to be doubted; and Dr. Haygarth,
without gainsaying them, quietly, but in the face of
numerous witnesses, exposed the delusion under
which people laboured with respect to the curative
medium. He suggested to Dr. Falconer that they
should make wooden tractors, paint them to re-
semble the steel ones, and see if the very same
effects would not be produced. Five patients were
chosen from the hospital in Bath, upon whom to
operate. Four of them suffered severely from
chronic rheumatism in the ankle. knee, wrist, and
hip ; and the fifth bad been affiicted for several
months with the gout. On the day appointed for
the experiments, Dr. Haygarth and his friends as-
sembled at the hospital, and with much solemnity
brought forth the :fictitious tractors. Four out of
the five patients said their pains were immediately
relieved ; and three of them said they were not only
relieved, ,but very much benefited. One felt his
knee warmer, and said he could walk across the
room. He tried and succeeded, although on the
THE MAGNETIS.ERS. 337
previous day he had not been able to stir. The
gouty man felt his pains diminish rapidly, and was
quite easy for nine hours, until he went to bed,
when the twitching began again. On the following
day the real tractors were applied to all the pa-
tients, when they described their symptoms in
nearly the same terms.
To make still more sure, the experiment was
tried in the Bristol Infirmary,.a few weeks after-
wards, on a man who had a rheumatic affeCtion in
the shoulder, so severe as to incapacitate him from
lifting his hand from his knee. The fictitious
tractors were brought and applied to the afBicted
part, one of the physicians, to add solemnity to the
scene, drawing a stop-watch from his pocket to cal-
culate the time exactly, while another, with a pen
in his hand, sat down to write the change of symp-
toms from minute to minute as they occurred.
In less than four minutes the man felt so much re-
lieved, that be lifted his hand several inches with.
out any pain in the shoulder !
An account of these matters was published by
Dr. Haygarth, in a small volume entitled, u Ofthe
Imagination, as a Cause and Cure ofDisorders, ez.
emplifted byfictitious Tractors!' The exposure was
a coup de grace to the system of Mr. Perkins. His
friends and patrons, still unwilling to confess
that they had been deceived, tried the tractors
upon sheep, cows, and horses, alleging that the
anim~ls received benefit from the metallic plates,
VOL. IlL z
888 THE MAGNETISEB.S.
but none at all from the wooden ones. But they
found nobody to believe them ; the Perkinean In-
stitution fell into neglect ; and Perkins made his
exit from England, earrying with him about ten
thousand pounds. to soothe his declining years in
~~!the good city of Pennsyl~a.
I Thus was magnetism laughed out of England for
a time. In France, the revolution left men no lei·
sure for such puerilities. The " Societes de !'Har-
monie," of Strasburg, and other great towns, lin-
gered for a while, till sterner matters occupying
men's attention, they were one after the other
abandoned, both by pupils and professors. The
system thus driven from the first two nations of
Europe, took refuge among the dreamy philoso-
phers of Germany. There the wonders of the.
magnetic sleep grew more and more wonderful
every day ; the patients acquired the gift of pro-
phecy-their vision extended over all the surface
of the globe-they could hear and see with their
toes and fingers, and read unknown languages, and
understand them too, by merely having the book
placed on their bellies. Ignorant clodpoles, when
once entranced by the grand Mesmeric fluid, could
spout philosophy diviner than Plato ever wrote,
descant upon the mysteries of the mind with more
eloquence and truth than the profoundest metaphy-
sicians the world ever saw, and solve knotty points
of divinity with as much ease as waking men cou)~
undo their shoe-buckles !
THE MAGNETISERS. 339
During the first twelve years of the present cen-
tury, little was heard of Animal Magnetism in any
country of Europe. Even the Germans forgot
their airy fancies; recalled to the knowledge of
this every-day world by the roar of Napoleon's
cannon and the fall or the establishment of king-
doms. During this period, a cloud ~f obsc~rity
hung over the science, which was not dispersed
until M. Deleuze published, in 1818, his u Histoire
Critique du Magnetisme Animal." This work gave
a new impulse _
to the half-forgotten delusion; news-
papers, pamphlets, and books again waged war
upon each other on the question of its truth or
falsehood ; and many eminent men in the pro-
fession of medicine recommenced inquiry, with an
earnest design to discover the truth.
The assertions made in the celebrated treatise
of Deleuze are thus summed llP :•-" There is a
fluid continually escaping from the human body,"
and ~~ forming an atmosphere around us," which,
as " it has no determined current," produces no
sensible effects on surrounding individuals. It is,
however, "capable of b~ing directed by the will;"
and, when so directed, "is sent forth in currents,..
with a force corresponding to the energy we possess.
I,ts motion is u si~ilar to that of the rays from
burning bodies ;" " it possesses different qualities
* See the very calm, clear1 and dispassionate article upon the
subject in the fifth volume (1 830) of " The Foreign Review,"
page 96, et 1eq.
z2
340 THE MAGNETISERS.
in different individuals." It is capable of a high
degree of concentration, 11
and exists also in trees."
The will of the magnetiser, "guided by a motion
of the hand, several times repeated in the same
direction," can fill a tree with this fluid. Most per.
sons, when this fluid is poured into them, from the
body and by the will of the magnetiser, 11
feel a
sensation of heat or cold" when he passes his hand
before them, without even touching them. Some
persons, when sufficiently charged with this fluid,
fall into a state of somnambulism, or magnetic
ecstasy ; and, when in this state, cc they see the
fluid encircling the magnetiser like a halo of light,
and issuing ·in luminous streams from his mouth
and nostrils, his head, and bands; possessing a
very agreeable smell, and communicating a parti-
cular taste to food and water."
One would think that these absurdities were
quite enough to be insisted upon by any pllysician
who wished to be considered sane, but they only
form a small portion of the wondrous things related
by M. Deleuze. He further said, " When mag-
netism produces somnambulism, the person who is
in this state acquires a prodigious extension of all
his faculties. Several of his external organs, espe-
cially those of sight and hearing, become inactive;
but the sensations which depend upon them take
place internally. Seeing and hearing are carried
on by the magnetic fluid, which transmits the im-
pressions immediately, and without the interven-
1\
THE MAGNETISERS. 841
tion of any nerves or organs directly to the brain.
·Thus the somnambulist, though his eyes and ear$
are closed, not only sees and hears, but sees and
hears much better than he does when awake. In
all things he feels the will of the magnetiser, al-
though that will be not expressed. He sees into
the interior of his own body, and the most secret
organization of the bodies of all those who may
be put en rapport, or in magnetic connexion, with
him. Most commonly, he only sees those parts
which are diseased and disordered, and intuitively
prescribes a remedy for them. He has prophetic
visions and sensations, which are generally true, but
sometimes erroneous. He expresses himself with
astonishing eloquence and facility. He is not free
from vanity. He becomes a more perfect being of
his own accord for a certain time, if guided wisely
by the magnetiser, but wanders if be is ill-directed."
According to M. Deleuze, any person could be-
come a magnetiser and produce these effects, by
conforming to the following conditions, and acting
upon the following rules :-
Forget for a while all your knowledge of physics
and metaphysics.
Remove from your mind all objections that may
occm•
.Imagine that it is in your power to take the
malady in band, and throw it on one side.
Never reason for si.1· wee/is after you nave com-
menced lite ~·tudy.
{ \
THE MAGNETISERS.
Have an active desire to do good ; a firm belief
in the power of magnetism, and an entire co.nfi-
dence in employing it~ In short, repel all doubts ;
desire success, and act with simplicity and at-
tention.
That is to say," be very credulous; be very per-
severing; rt"ject all past experience, and do not
listen to reason," and you are a magnetiser after
M. Deleuze's own heart.
Having brought yourself into this edifying state
of fanaticism, "remove from the patient all persons
who·might be troublesome to you: keep with you
o~ly the necessary witnesses- a single person, if
need be; desire them not to occupy themselves in
any way with the processes you employ and the
effects which result from them, but to join with
you in the desire of doing good to your patient.
Arrange yourself so as neither to be tC?o hot nor
too cold, and in such a manner that nothing may
obstruct the freedom of your motions ; and take
precautions to prevent interruption during the sit-
ting. Make your patient then sit as commodiously
as possible, and place yourself opposite to him, on
a seat a littJe more elevated, in such·a manner
that his knees may be betwixt yours, and your
feet at the side of his. First, request bim to re-
sign himself; to think of nothing ; not to perplex
himself by examining tlie effects which may·be p"ro:-
duced ; to banish all fear ; to surrender himself to
hope, and not to be disturbed or discouraged if
THE MACNETISERS.
the action of magnetism should cause in him mo-
mentary pains. After having collected yourself,
take his thumbs between your fingers in such a
way that the internal part of your thumbs may
be in contact with the internal part of his, and then
fiJ.' !JOur eyes upon him! You must remain from
two to five minutes in this situation, or until you
feel an equal heat between your thumbs and his.
This done, you will withdraw your hands, remov-
ing them to the right and left; and at the same
time turning them till their internal surface be
outwards, and you will raise them to the height
of the head. You will now place them upon the
two shoulders, and let them remain there about
a minute; afterwards drawing them gently along
the arms to the extremities of the fingers, touch-
ing very slightly as you go. You will renew this
pass five or six times, always turning your hands,
and removing them a little from the body before
you lift them. You will then place them above the
head; and, after.holding them there for an instant,
lower them, passing them before the face, at the
distance of one or two inches, down to the pit
of the stomach. There you will stop them tw·o
minutes also, putting your thumbs upon the pit
of the stomach and the rest of your fingers below
the ribs. You will then descend slowly along the
body to the knees, or rather, if you can do so
without deranging yourself, to the extremity of
the feet. You will repeat the same processes seve-
1\ I
THE MAGNETISERS.
zal times during the remainder of the sitting. You
will also occasionally approach your patient, so as
to place your bands behind his shoulders, in order
to descend slowly along the spine of the back and
the thighs, down to the knees or the feet. After
the first passes6 you may dispense with putting
your hands upon the bead, and may make the
~ubsequent passes upon the arms, beginning at
the shoulders, and upon the body, beginning at the
stomach."
Such was the process of magnetising recom-
mended by De1euze. That delicate, fancifu16 and
nervous women, when subjected to it, should have
worked themselves into convulsions will be readily
believed by the sturdiest opponent of Animal Mag-
netism. To sit in a constrained posture- be
stared out of countenance by a fellow who enclosed
her knees between his, while be made passes upon
different parts of her body, was quite enough to
.throw any weak woman into a fit, especially if she
were predisposed to hysteria, and believed in the
efficacy of the treatment. It is just· as evident
that those of stronger minds and healthier bodies
sho.uld be sent to sleep by the process. That
these effects have been produced by these means
there are thousands of instances to show. But are
they testimony in favour of Animal Magnetism ?-
do they prove the existence of the magnetic fluid 1
Every unprejudiced person must answer in the
negative. It needs neither magnetism, nor ghost
THE MAGNETISERS.
from the grave, to tell us that silence, monotony,
and long recumbency in one position must produce
sleep, or that excitement, imitation, and a strong
imagination, acting upon a weak body, will bring
on convulsions. It will be seen hereafter that
magnetism produces no effects but these tw.o; that
the gift of prophecy- supernatural eloquence -
the transfer of the senses, and the power of see-
ing through opaque substances, are pure fictions,
that cannot be substantiated by anything like
proof.
M. Deleuze's book produced quite a sensation in
France; the study was resumed with redoubled vi~
gour. In the following year, a journal was esta-
blished devoted exclusively to the science, under
the title ofu Annales du Magn~tisme Animal ;" and
shortly afterwards appeared the "Bibliotheque du
Magnetisme Animal," and many others. About
the same time, the Abbe Faria, " the man of won-
ders,.. began to magnetise ; and the belief being
t.bat be had more of the Mesmeric fluid about
him, and a stronger wiJI, than most men, he waa
very successful in his treatment. His experiments
afford a convincing proof that imagination can
operate all, and the supposed fluid none, of the re-
sults so confidently claimed as evidence of the new
science. He placed his patients in an arm-chair;
told them to shut their eyes ; and then, in a loud
commanding voice, pronounced the single word,
,. Sleep! " He used no manipulations whatever-
1\
S46 THE MAGNETISERS.
bad no haquet, or conductor of the fluid ; but be
nevertheless succeeded in causing sleep in hun-
dreds of patients. He boasted of having in his
time produced five thousand somnambulists by this
method. It was often necessary to repeat the
command three or four times ; and if the patient
still remained awake, the Abbe got out of the diffi-
culty by dismissing him from the chair, and de-
claring that he was incapable of being acted on.
'
And here it should be remarked that the mag-
netisers do not lay claim to a universal efficacy
for their fluid; the strong and the healthy cannot
be magnetised; the incredulous cannot be magne-
tised; those who reason upon it cannot be mag-
netised; those who firmly believe in it can be mag-
netiRed ; the weak in body can be magnetised, and
the weak in mind can be magnetised. And· lest,
from some cause or other, individuals of the latter
classes should resist the magnetic charm, the apos-
tles of the science declare that there are times
w.hen even they cannot be acted upon ; the pre-
sence of one scorner or unbeliever may weaken the
potency of the fluid aod destroy its efficacy. In
M. Deleuze•s instructions to a magnetiser, he ex-
pressly says, u Never magnetise before inquisitive
persons !"• Yet the followers of this delusion
claim for it the rank of a science!
The numerous writings that appeared between
• " Histoire Critique du Magnetiame Animal," p. 60.
\ I I I
•
THE MAGNETISERS.
the years 1818 and 18~5 show bow much attention
was excited in France. With every succeeding
year some new discovery was put forth, until at
last the magnetisers seemed to be very generally
agreed that there were six separate and distinct
degrees of magnetisation. They have been classed
as follow:-
In the first stage, the skin of tbe patient be-
comes slightly reddened ; and there is a feeling
of beat, comfort, and lightness all over the body;
but there is no visible action on the senses.
In the second stage, the eye is gradually abs-
tracted from the dominion of the will (or, in other
words, the patient becomes sleepy). The drooping
eyelids cannot be raised ; the senses of hearing,
smelling, feeling, and tasting are more than usually
excited. In addition, a variety of nervous sensations
are felt, such as spasms of the muscles and prickings
of the skin, and involuntary twitchings in various
parts of the body.
In the third stage, which is that of magnetic
sleep, all the senses are closed to external im-
pressions ; and sometimes fainting, and cataleptic
or apoplectic attacks may occur.
In the fourth stage, the patient is asleep to all
the world; but he is awake within his own body,
and consciousness returns. While in this state, all
his senses are transferred to the skin. He is in the
perfect crisis, or magnetic somnambulism ; a being
of soul and mind- seeing without eyes-hearing
348 THE MAGNETISERS.
without ears, and deadened in body to all sense
offeeling.
In the fifth stage, which is that of lucid vision,
the patient can see his own internal organisation,
or that of othen placed in magnetic communica-
tion with him. He becomes, at the same time,
possessed of the instinct of remedies. The mag-
netic fluid, in this stage, unites him by powerful
attraction to others, and establishes between them
an impenetration of thought and feeling so intense
as to blend their different natures into one.
In the sixth stage, which is at the same time the
rarest and the most perfect of all, the lucid vision
is not obstructed by opaque ·matter, or subject to
any barriers interposed by time or space. The
magnetic fluid, which is universally spread in na-
ture, unites the individual with an nature, and
gives him cognizance of coming events by its uni-
versal lucidity.
So much was said and written between the years
1820 and 1825, and so many converts were made,
that the magnetisers became clamorous for a new
investigation. M. de Foissac, a young physician,
wrote to the Academie Royale du Medicine a let-
ter, calling for inquiry, in which he complained of
the unfairness of the report of Messrs. Bailly and
Franklin in 1784, and stating that, since that time,
the science bad wholly changed by the important
discovery of magnetic somnambulism. He inform-
ed the Acatlemy that he hatl under his care a
TllE MAONETISERS.
young woman, whose powers of divination when in
the somnambulic state were of the most extraor-
dinary character. He invited the members of that
body to go into any hospital, and choose persons
afBicted with any diseases, acute or chronic, simple
or complex, and his somnambulist, on being put en
rapport, or in magnetic connexion, with them, would
infallibly point out their ailings and name the
remedies. She, and other somnambulists, he said,
could, by merely laying the band successively on
the head, the chest, and the abdomen of a stranger,
immediately discover his maladies, with the pains
and different alterations thereby occasioned. They
could indicate, besides, whether the cure were pos-
sible, and, if so, whether it were easy or difficult,
near or remote, and what means should be em-
ployed to attain this result by the surest and rea-
diest way. In this examination they never de-
parted from the sound principles of medicine.
" In fact," added M. de Foissac, "I go further,
and assert that their inspirations are allied to the
genius which animated Hippocrates!"
In the mean time experiments were carried on in
various hospitals of Paris. .The epileptic patients
at the Salpetriere were magnetised by permission
of M. Esquirol. At the Bicetre also the same re-
sults were obtained. M. de Foissac busied himself
with the invalids at the Hospice de Ja Charite, and
M. Dupotet was equally successful in producing
sleep or convulsions at Val de Grace. Many mem-
1\ I 1\
850 THE HAGNETISERS.
hers.of the Chamber of Deputies became converts,
and M. Chardel, the Comte de Gestas, M. de Las-
cases, and others, opened their saloons to those who
were desirous of being instructed in animal mag-
netism.• Other physicians united with M. de
Foissac in calling for an inquiry ; and ultimately
the Academy nominated a preliminary committee of
five of its members, namely, Messrs Adelon, Bur-
din, Marc, Pariset, and Husson, to investigate the
alleged facts, and to report whether the Academy,
without any compromise of its dignity, could ap-
point a new commission.
Before this committee, M. de Foissac produced his
famous somnambulist; but she failed in ex}tibiting
any one ofthe phenomena her physician had so confi-
dently predicted: shewaseasily thrown into the state
ofsleep, by long habit and the monotony ofthe passes
and manipulations of her magnetiser ; but she could
not ten the diseases of persons put en rapport with
her. The committee of five framed excuses for this
failure, by saying, that probably the magnetic fluid
was obstructed, because they were "inexperienced,
distrustful, and perltap8 impatient." After this,
what can be said for the judgment or the impar-
tiality of such a committee ? They gave at last
their opinion, that it would be advisable to appoint
a new commission. On the 18th of Decfember
1825, they presented themselves to the Academie
* Dupotet's Introduction to the Study ofAnimal Magnetism,
page ~8.
THE MAGNETISERS. 851
to deliver their report. A debate ensued, which
occupied three days, and in which all the most
distinguished members took part. It was final-
ly decided by a majority of ten, that the com-
mission should be appointed, and the following
physicians were chosen its members!-They were
eleven in number, viz. Bourdois de la Motte, the
President; Fouquier, Gueneau de Mussy, Guersent,
Husson, ltard, Marc, J. J. Leroux, Thillay, Dou-
ble, and Majendie.
These gentlemen began their labours by pub-
lishing an address to all magnetisers, inviting them
to come forward and exhibit in their presence the
wonders of animal magnetism. M. Dupotet says
that very few answered this amicable appeal, be-
cause they were afraid of being ridiculed when the
reportshould be published. Four magnetisers, how-
ever, answered their appeal readily, and for five
years were busily engaged in bringing proofs of the
new science before the commission. These were
M. de Foissac, M. Dupotet, M. Chapelain, and M.
de Geslin. It would be but an unprofitable, and
by no means a pleasant task to follow the commis-
sioners in their erratic career, as they were led
hither and thither by the four lights of magnetism
above mentioned; the four t• Wi/18-o'-the-Wisp"
which dazzled the benighted and bewildered doc-
tors on that wide and shadowy region of metaphy-
sical inquiry-the influence of mind over matter.
It will be better to state at once the conclusion
352 THE MAGNETISERS.
they came to after so long and laborious an investi-
gation, and then examine whether they were war-
ranted in it by the evidence brought before them.
The report, which is exceedingly voluminous, is
classed under thirty different heads, and its general
tenor is favourable to magnetism. The reporters
expressly state their belief in the existence of the
magnetic fluid, and sum up the result of their in-
quiries in the four assertions which follow :-
1. Magnetism has no effect upon persons in a
sound state of health, nor upon some diseased
persons.
2. In others its effects are slight.
3. These effects are sometimes produced by
weariness or ennui, by monotony, and by the ima-
gination.
4. We have seen these effects developed inde-
pendently of the last causes, most probably as the
effects of magnetism alone.
It will be seen that the first and second of these
sentences presuppose the existence of that magnetic
power, which it is the object of the inquiry to dis-
cover. The reporters begin., by saying, that mag-
netism exists, when after detailing their proofs,
they should have ended by affirming it. For the
sake of lucidity, a favourite expression of their
own, let u.s put the propositions into a new form
and new words, without altering the sense.
1. Certain effects, such as convulsions, somnam-
bulism, &c. are producible in the human frame, by
1\
THE MAGNETISERS. 853
tb'e will of others, by the will of the patient him-
selt or by both combined, or by some unknown
means, we wish to discover, perhaps by magnetism.
2. These effects are not producible upon all
bodies. They cannot be produced upon persons
in a sound state of health, nor upon some diseased
persons ; while in other cases, the effects are very
slight.
3. These effects were produced in many cases
that fell. under our notice, in which the persons
operated on were in a weak state of health, by
weariness or ennui, by monotony, and by the power
of imagination.
4. But in many othercases these effects were pro..
duced, and were clearly not the result of weariness
or ennui, of monotony, or of the power of the ima-
gination. They were, therefore, produced by the
magnetic processes we employed :-ergo-Animal
Magnetism exists.
Every one, whether a believer or disbeliever in
the doctrine, must see that the whole gist of the
argument will be destroyed, if it be proved that the
effects which the reporters claimed as resulting
from a power independent of weariness, monotony,
and the imagination, did, in fact, result from them,
and from nothing else. The following are among
the proofs brought forward to support the existence
of the magnetic fluid, as producing those pheno..
mena:-
" A child, twenty-eight months old, was mag..
VOL. Ill. 2 A
1\
- ~
TH£ MAONBTISi.RS.
netiaed by M. Foiuae, at the bouae of M. Bcnmloii.
The child, aa well na its father, was subject ta at-
tacks of epilepsy. Almost immediately after M.
Foissac had begun bia manipulations and panes,
the child rubbed its eyes, bent its bead to one side,
supported it on one of the cushions of the sofa.
"!here it waa sitting. yawned~ moved it.elf about,
scratched its bead and its ears, appeared to .strive
against the approach of sleep, and then toae, if we
may be allowed the npre.sion, grumbling. Being
taken away to satisfy a necessity of nature, it waa
again placed on the sofa~ and magnetised for a few
moments. But as there appeared no decided
r.ymptoms of somnolency thia time, we terminated
the experiment."
And this in all seriousness and sobriety was called
a proof of the existence of the magnetic fluid 1
That these effects were not produced by the ima-
gination may be granted; but that they were not
produced by weariness and monotony is not so
dear. A child is seated upon a sofa, a solemn
looking gentleman, snrrounded by several otbera
equally grave, begins to play various strange antics
before it, moving his hands mysteriously, pointing
at hia head, all the while preserving a most pro-
voking silence. And what does the child 1 It
rubs its eyes, appears restless, yawns, scratches its
head, grumbles, and makes. an excuse to get away..
Magnetism, forsooth f 'Twas a decided case of
hptheration !
THE MAGNETlSEJlS.
The aext proof (10 called), though not so amus-
ing, -is equally decisive of the mystification of the
Commissioners. A deaf and dumb lad, eighteen
years of age, and aubject to attacks of epilepsy,
was magnetised fifteen times by M. Foissac. The
phenomena exhibited during the treatment were
a heaviness of the eyelids, a general numbness, a
desire to sleep, and sometimes vertigo :-the epilep-
tic attacks were entirely suspended,~~ and did not
return till eight months afterward&. Upon this
eaae and the first mentioned, the Committee reason..
ed thU8 :-" These cases appear to us altogether
worthy of remark. The two individuals who
formed the subjed of the experiment, were ignorant
of what was done to them. The one, indeed, wat
not in a state capable of knowing it ; and the other
never had the slightest idea of magnetism. Both,
iowever, were insenaible ofits influence; and most
eertainly it is impossible in either case to attribute
this sensibility to the imagination." The first case
has been already disposed of. With regard to the
second, it is very possible _to attribute all the re-
sults to imagination. It cannot be contended,~~
that because the lad was deaf and dumb he had no
1mderstanding, that be could not see the strange
manipulations of the magnetiser, and that he wai
unaware that his eure was the object of the experi..
menta that were thus made upon him. Had he no
fancy merely because he was dumb ? and could he,
for the same reason, avoid feeling a heaviness in his
2A2
1\ ~
,/
- ~
856 THE MAGNETISER.S.
eyelids, a numbness, and a sleepiness, when be was
forced to sit for two or three hours while M. FoiS.:
sac pointed his fingers at him 1 As for the amelio-
ration in his health, no argument can be adduced
to prove that he was devoid of faith in the remedy;
and that, having faith, he should not feel the benefit
of it as well as thousands of others who have been
cured by tneans wholly as imaginary.
The third case is brought forward with a still
greater show of authority. Having magnetised the
child and the dumb youth with results so extraor-
dinary, M. Foissac next tried his hand upon a
Commissioner. M. ltard was subjected to a course
of manipulations ; the consequences were a flow of
saliva, a metallic savour in the mouth, and a severe
headach. These symptoms, say the reporters, can-
not be accounted for by the influence of imagination.
M. ltard, it should be remarked, was a confirmed
valetudinarian ; and a believer, before the investi-
gation commenced, in the truth of magnetism.
He was a man., therefore, whose testimony cannot
be receiv.ed with implicit credence upon this sub-
ject. He may have repeated, and so may his bro-
ther Commissioners, that the results above stated
were not produced by the power of the imagination.
The patients of Perkins, of Valentine Greatrak~
of Sir Kenelm Digby, of Father Gassner, were aU
equally positive : but what availed their asseTtions ?
Experience soon made it manifest, that no other
power than that ofimagination worked the wonders
THE MAGNETISER&. 857
in their case. M. ltard's is not half so extraordi.
nary; the only wonder is, that it should ever have
been insisted upon.
The Commissioners having, as they thought,
established beyond doubt the existence of the
magnetic fluid, (and these are all their proofs,)
next proceeded to investigate the more marvellou~
phenomena of the science; such as the transfer ofthe
senses ; the capability of seeing into one's own or
other people's insides, and of divining remedies ;
and the power of prophecy. A few examples will
suffice.
M. Petit was magnetised by M. D_
upotet, who
asserted that the· somnambulist would be able tq
choose, with his eyes shut, a mesmerised coin out
of twelve others. The experiment was tried, and
the somnambulist chose the wrong one.•
Baptiste Cbamet was also magnetised by M.
Dupotet, and fell into the somnambulic state after
eight minutes. As be appeared to be suffering
great pain, he was asked what ailed him, when he
pointed to his breast, and said he felt pain there.
Being asked what part of his body that was, be
said his liver.t
Mademoiselle Martineau was mngnetised by M.
Dupotet, and it was expected that her case would
prove not only the transfer of the aenses, but the
power of divining remedies. Her eyes having been
bandaged, she was asked if she could not see all the
• Report of the Commissioners, .P· 158. t Ibid, p. 187.
{ 1\ I
S58 THE MAONETISE&S.
persons present 1 She replied, no ; but she eould
hear them talking. No one was speaking at the
time. She said she would awake after five or ten
minutes sleep. She did not awalc:e for sixteen or
seventeen minutes. She announced that on a
certain day she would be able to tell exactly the
nature of her complaint, and preBCribe the proper
remedies. On the appointed day she was asked the
question, and could not answer.•
Mademoiselle Coutl1rier, a patient of M. de Ges-
Jln, was thrown into tbe state of somnambulism,
and M. de Geslin said she would execute his mental
orders. One of the Committee then wrote on a
slip of paper the words " Go and sit down on the 1tool
infro1lt ofthe plano." He handed the paper to M.
de Geslin, who having eonceived the words men~
tally, turned to his patient, and told her to do as he
required of her. She rose up, went to the clock, and
1aid it was twenty minut~ pa1t nine. She was tried
nine times more, and made as many mistakes. t
Pierre Cazot was an epileptic patient, and WM
said to have the power of prophecy. Being magp
neti~d on the iind of April, he said that in nine
weeks he should have a fit, in three weeki after-
wards go mad, abuse his wife, murder some one,
and finally reeover in the month of August. After
which he should never have an attack again.% In
two days after uttering this propheey, he was run
• Report of the CommiBBionei'B, p. 189.
i Idem, P• 180.
t Idem, p. 189.
THE J4AGN.ETISEH 359
OTer by a cabriolet and killed.• A post mortem
examination was made of his body~ when it was as-
certained beyond doubt, that even had he not met
with this accident, he could never have recovered.t
The inquest which had been the means of elicit·
ing these, along with many other facts, having sat
for upwards of five years, the magnetisers became
anxious that the report should be received by tho
solemn conclave of the Academie. At length a
day (the 20th of June 18S1) was fixed for tho
reading. All the doctors of Paris thronged around
the hall to learn the result ; the street in front
of the building was crowded with medical students ;
the passages were obstructed by philosophers. c~ So
great was the sensation,'' says M. Dupotet, u that
it might have been supposed the fate of the nation
depended on the result.'' M. Husson, the reporter,
appeared at the bar and read the report, the sub-
stance of which we have just extracted. He was
beard at first with great attention, but aa he pro-
ceeded signs of impatience and dissent were mani-
fested on all sides. The unreasonable inferences
of the Commissioners - their false conclusions-
their too positive assertions, were received with
repeated marks of disapprobation. Some of the
academicians started from their aeats, and apostro.
* Foreign Quatterly Review, vo]. xii. p. 489.
t At the extremity of the plexus choroides waa foWld a &llb-
atanee, yellow within, and white without, containing IIJllall hyda..
tida.-&port of/M Commiuioner~t p. 1&6.
1\ I
860 THE MAGNETISERS.
phising the Commissioners, accused them of par-
tiality or stolidity. The Commissioners replied;
until, at last, the uproar became so violent that
an adjournment of the sitting was moved and
earried. On the following day the report was
concluded. A stormy discussion immediately en-
sued, which certainly reflected no credit upon the
opponents of Animal Magnetism. Both sides lost
temper - the anti.magnetists declaring that the
whole was a fraud and a delusion; the pro·mag-
netists reminding the Academy that it was too
often the fate of truth to be scorned and disre-
garded for a while, but that eventually her cause
would triumph. 11
We do not care for your dis-
belief," cried one, u for in this very hall your pre-
decessors denied the circulation of the blood!''-
~~Yes," cried another, 11
and they denied the fal-
ling of meteoric stones!" while a third exclaimed
" Grande est veritas et prmvalebit!" Some de-
gree of order being at last restored, the question
whether the report should be received and pub-
lished was decided in the negative. It was after-
wards agreed that a limited number of copies -should
be lithographed, for the private use of such mem~
bers as wished to make further examination~
As might have been expected, magnetism did not
suffer from a discussion which its opponents had
conducted with so much intemperance. The fol-
lowers of magnetism were as loud as ever in vaunt-
ing its efficacy as a cure, and its value, not only
1'HE MAGNETlSERS. 861
to the science of medicine, but to philo'sopby in
general. By force of repeated outcries against the
decision of the Academie, and assertions that new
facts were discovered day after day, its friends, six
years afterwards, prevailed upon that learned and
influential body to institute another inquiry. The
Academie, in thus consenting to renew the investi-
gation after it had twice solemnly decided (once
in conjunction with, and once in opposition to a
committee of its own appointment) that Animal
Magnetism was a fraud or a chimera, gave the most
striking proof of its own impartiality and sincere
desire to arrive at the truth.
The new Commission was composed of M.Roux,
the President; and Messieurs Bouillard, Cloquet,
Emery, Pelletier, Caventon, Oudet, Cornac, and
Dubois d'Amiens. The chief magnetiser upon the
occasion was M. Berna, who bad written to the
Academie on the 12th of February 1837, offering
to bring forward the most convincing proofs of the
truth of the new " science." The Commissioners
met for the first time on the 27th of February, and
delivered their report, which was drawn up by M.
Dubois d'Amiens, on the 22nd of August following.
After a careful examination of all the evidence,
they decided, as Messieurs Bailly and Franklin had
aone in 1784, that the touchings, imagination, and
the force of imitation would account satisfactorily
for all the phenomena ; that the supposed Mes-
meric fluid would not ; that M. Berna, the mag-
1\
J6t THE MAG1lBTISEJta;
Detiser, laboured under a delusion; and that ctbe
facta brought under their notice were anything but
conclusive in favour of the doctrine ofAnimal Mag..
netiam, and could have no relation either with phy-
siology or with therapeutics.
The following abridgment of the report will
sb.ow that the Commissioners did not thns decide
without abundant reason. On the Srd of March
they met at the bouse of .M. Roux, the President,
when M. Berna introduced his patient, a young
girl of seventeen, of a constitution appBTently ner-
vous and delicate, but with an air sufficiently cool
and self-sufficient. M. Bema offered eight proofi
of Animal Magnetism, which he would elicit in her
cue, and which he classed as follow:-
1. He would throw her into the state of ao~
nambulism.
2. He would render her quite i.n.senaible to
bodily pain.
8. He would restore her to sensibility by his
mere will, without any visible or audible ma·
nifestation ofit.
41. His mental order should deprive her of
motion.
5. He would cause her, by a mental order, to
cease answering in the mid,st of a conversa-
tion, and by a second mental order would
make her begin again.
6. He would repeat the same experiment,
separated from his patient by a door.
THE MAONETlSER.S.
7. He would awake her.
8. He would throw her agam into the som-
nambulic state~ and by hia will successiTely
cause her to lose and recover the sensibility
of any part of her body.
Before any attempt at magnetisation was made
by M. Berna, the Commissioners determined to
aacertain how far, in her ordinary state, she was
aenaible to pricking. Needles of a moderate size
were stuck into her hands and neck, to the depth
ofhalf a line, and she was asked by Messieurs Roux
and Caventon whether she felt any pain. She re-
plied that she felt nothing; neither did her coun-
tenance express any pain. The Commissioners,
aomewbat surprised at this, repeated their question,
and inquired whether she was absolutely insensi-
}lle. Being thus pressed, she acknowledged that
she felt a little pain.
These preliminaries having been completed, M.
Bema made her sit close by him. He looked
ateadfaatly at her, but made no movements or
passes whatever. After the lapse of about two
minutes abe fell back asleep, and M. Berna told
the Commissioners that she was now in the state
of magnetic somnambulism. He then arose, and
again looking steadfastly at her· from a short dis-
tance, declared, after another minute, that she was
struck with general insensibility.
To ascer~in this, the girl's eyes having been
1\ I
866 THE MAGNETlSERS.
previously bandaged, Messieurs Bouillard, Emery,
and Dubois pricked her one after the other with
needles. By word she complained of no pain ; and
her features, where the bandage allowed them to
be seen, appeared calm and unmoved. But M.
Dubois having stuck his needle rather deep under
her chin, she immediately made with much vivacity
a movement of deglutition.
This experiment having failed, M. Berna tried
another, saying that he would, by the sole and
tacit intervention of his will, paralyze any part of
the girl's body the Commissioners might mention.
To avoid the possibility of collusion, M. Dubois
drew up the following conditions :- u That M.
J}erna should maintain the most perfect silence,
~nd should receive from the hands of the Com..
missioners papers, on which shouid be written the
parts to be deprived of motion and sensibility,
and that M. Berna should let them know when he
pad done it by closing one of his eyes, that they
might verify it. The parts to be deprived of sen-
sibility were the chin, the right thumb, the region
of the left deltoid, and that of the right patelJa."
M. Berna would not accept these conditions, giving
for his reason that the parts pointed out by the
Commissioners were too limited ; that, besides, aU
this was out of his programme, and he did ·not
understand why such precautions should be taken
against him.
M. Berna had written in his programme that
THE MAGNETISERS. S65
be would deprive t.he whole body of sensibility, and
then a part only. He would afterwards deprive
the two arms of motion -then the two legs-then
a leg and an ,arm - then the neck, and lastly the
tongue. All the evidence he wished the Commis-
sioners to have was after a very unsatisfactory
fashion. He would tell the somnambulist to raise
her arm, and if she did not raise it, the limb
was to be considered paralyzed. Besides this, the
Commissioners were to make haste with their ob-
servations. If the first trials did not succeed, they
were to be repeated till paralysis was produced.
cc These," as the Commissioners very justly re-
marked, " were not such conditions as men of
science, who were to give an account of their
commission, could exactly comply with., Mter
some time spent in a friendly discussion of the
point, M. Berna said he could do no more at that
meeting. Then placing himself opposite the girl,
be twice exclaimed., 11
Wake !" She awakened ac-
cordingly, and the sitting terminated.
At the second meeting, M. Berna was requested
to paralyze the right arm only of the girl by the
tacit intervention of his will., as he had confidently
assured the Commissioners he could. M. Berna,
after a few moments, made a sign with his eye that
he had done so, when M. Bouillard proceeded to
verify the fact. Being requested to move her left
nrm, she did so. Being then requested to move
her right leg, she said the whole of her right side
1\
TH:Z. JIAGlUTISIRS.
wu paralyzed- she could neither move a1111 nor
leg. On this experiment the Commissioners re-
mark : " M. Berna's programme stated that he hlld
the power of paralyzing either a single limb or two
limbs at once, we chose a single limb, and tbere re·
aulted, in apite of his will, a paralysis of two
limbs." Some other ·experiments, equally unsatis-
factory, were tried with the same girl. M. Bema
was soon convinced that she had not studied her
part well, or was not clever enough to reflect any
honour upon the science, and he therefore diamiss-
ed her. Her place was filled by a woman, aged .
about thirty, also of very delicate health; and the
following condusive experiments were tried upon
her:-
The patient was thrown into the samnambalic
state, and her eyes covered with a bandage. At
the invitation of the magnetiser, M.Dubois d'Amiens
wrote several words upon a card, that tlle somnam.
bule might read them through her bandages, M
through her occiput.. M. Duboil wrote the word
Panlagruel, in perfectly distinct roman charac-
ters; then placing himself behind the somnambule,
he presented the card close to her oceiput.. The
magnetiier was seated in front of the womau and
of M•.Dubois, and could not see the writing upon
the card.. Being asked by her magnetiser what
was behind her head, she answered, after some
hesitation, that lhe saw something white-some-
thing reaembling a card-a visiting-eardr It .should
THE MAONETISERS. 867
be remembered that M. Berna bad requested M..
Dubois aloud to take a card and write upon it, and
that the patient must have beard it, aa it was said
in her presence. She was next asked if she could
distinguish what there was on this card. Shere-
plied "Yea; there was writing on it."-" Is it small
or large, this writing 1" inquired the magnetiaer.
" Pretty large/' replied she. n What is written on.
it!" continued the magnetiser. " Wait a little-
I cannot see very plain. Ah ! there is first an M.
Yes, it is a wol'd beginning with an M." [The
woman thought it was a visiting-card, and guessed
that doubtless it would begin with the words Mon-
sieur or Madame.] M. Cornac, unknown to the
magnetiJer, who alone put the questions, passed a.
perfectly blank card to M. Dubois, who substituted
it quietly for the one on which he bad written the
~ord Pantagruel. The somnambule still persisted
that she saw a word beginning with an M. At
last, after some efforts, she added doubtingly tha'
she thought she could see two lines of writing.
She was still thinking of the visiting-card, with a
name in one line and the address on the other.
~any other experiments of the same kind, and
with a similar result, were tried with. blank card& ;
and it was then determined to try her with play-
ing-cards. M. Berna bad a pack of them on his
1able, and addressing M. Dubois aloud, he aslced
him to talce one of them and place it at tbe occiput
of the somnambnle. M. Dubois asked him aloud
./
S68 THE MAGNETISERS.
whether he should take a court card~ u As you·
please," replied the magnetiser. As M. Dubois
went towards the table, the idea struck him that
he would not take either a court .or a common
card, but a perfectly blank card of the same size.
Neither M. Berna nor the somnambule was aware
of the substitution. He then placed himself be-
hind her as before,· and held the card to her
occiput so that M. Berna could not see it. M.
Berna then began to magnetise her with all his
force, that he might sublimate her into the stage
of extreme lucidity, and effectually transfer the
power of vision to her occiput. She was interro-
gated as to what she could see. She hesitated ;,
appeared to struggle with herself, and at last said
she saw a card. 11
But what do you see on ·the
card ?'' After a little hesitation, she said she could
see black and red (thinking of the court card).
The Commissioners allowed M. Berna to con-
tinue the examination in his own way. After some
fruitless efforts to get a more satisfactory answer
from the somnambule, he invited M. Dubois to
pass his card before her head, close against the
bandage covering her eyes. This having been
.
done, the somnambule said she could see better.
M. Berna then began to put some leading ques-
tions, and she replied that she could see. a figure.
Hereupon, there were renewed solicitations from
M. Berna. The somnambule, on her part, ap-
peared to be making great efforts to glean some
THE MAGNETISERS. 869
information ·from her magnetiser, and at last said
that she could distinguish the Knave. But this
was not all ; it remained for her to say which of
the four knaves. In answer to further inquiries,
she said there was black by the side of it. Not
being contradicted at aiJ, she imagined that she
was in the right track; and made, after much
pressing, her final guess, that it was the Knave
of Clubs.
M. Berna, thinking the experiment finished, took
the card from the hands of M. Dubois, and in pre-
sence of all the Commissioners saw that it was en-
tirely blank. Blank was his own dismay.
As a last experiment, she was tried with a ail..
ver medal. It was with very great difficulty that
any answers could be elicited from her. M. Cor-
nac held the object firmly closed in his band close
before the bandage over her eyes. She first said
she saw something round; she then said it was
fiesb-coloured-tben yellow-then the colour of
gold. It was as thick as an onion : and, in an-
swer to incessant questions, she said it was yellow
on one side, white on the other, and had black
above it. She was thinking, apparently, of a gold
watch, with its white dial and black figures for
the hours. Solicited, for the last time, to explain
herself clearly-to say, at least, the use of the
object and its name, she appeared to be an~ious
to collect all her energies, and then utterecl only
the word "hour." Then, at last, as if suddenly
VOL. JU.
S70 TRE MAGNETISEBS.
illumined, she cried out that " it was to tell the
hour."
Tbua ended the sitting. Some difficulties after-
wards arose between ·the Commi88ioners and M•
. Berna, who wished that a copy of the proc~s verbal
should be given him. The Commi88ioners would
not agree; and M. Bema, in his tum, refu.eed to
make· any fre1h experiments. It waa impossible
that any investigation could have been c.onducted
more satisfactorily than this. The report of the
Commissioners was quite conclusive ; and Animal
Magnetism since that day lost much of itls repute
in France. M. Dupotet, with a perseverance and
ingenuity worthy a better eauae, baa found a satis-
factory excuse for the failure of M. Berna. Hav-
ing taken care in his work not to publish the
particulars, he merely mention&, in three lines,
that M. Berna failed before a committee of the
Royal Academy of Medicine in an endeavour to
produce some of the higher magxtetic phenomena,
" There are a variety of incidental circumstancete,"
aays that shining light of magnetism, H which it
is difficult even to enumerate. An over..anxiety to
produce the effects, or any incidental suggestion'
that may disturb the attention of the magnetiJer.
will often be sufficient to mar the succe88ful issue
of the experiment:•• Such are the miserable sbift.l
to which error reduces its votaries !
• "Introduction to the Study ofAnimal Magnetism,.. by Baron
Dupotet de Sennevoy, London, IS88, p. 159,
THE MA.GNE1'JS£RS. 871
While Dupotet thu11 conveniently forbears to
dwell upon the unfuvourable decision of the com.,
mittee of 1887, let us hear how he dilate$ upon
the favouFable report of the previous committee
of 18~5, and how he praises the judgment and
the impartiality of its members. " The Academie
ltc;>ya1e de Medicine/' says he, " put upon record
clear and authenticated "vidence in favour ofAnimal
Magnetism. The Comissioners detailed circum..
stantially the facts which they witnessed, and the
methoda they adopted to detect every poaaible
source of deception. Many of the Commissioners,
when they entered on the investigatiQn, were not
only unfavourable to magnetiam, but ~J;vowedly un-
beljevers ; so that their evidence in any court of
ju,stice would be esteemed the most unexception..
able tl)at could poasibly be desired, They were
inquiring too, not into any speculative or occult
theory, upon which there might be q. chanc;e of
th~ir bemg led away by sophistical representations,
but they were inquiring into the existence of facts
only-plain dQmonstrable facts, )Vbich were in their
own uature palpable to every observer."• M. Du..
potet ~ight not unreasonably be asked whoth~r
the very s~me argum.ents ought p,ot to be applied
to thQ unfavqurable J'.ePQrt drawn up by the able
M. DuboiJ d'Amiens and h\s coadjutors in tho last
inqtJiry, If th~ questiqn were aiked, we should,
in all probability, meet some iuch a reply as
11 rr Introduction to the Study of Animal Magnetism," p. ~7.
f2Bft
1\ I
'1
I
THE .MAGNETISEttS.
this : -" True, they might ; but then you must
consider the variety of incidental circumstances6
too numerous to mention ! M. Berna may have
been over anxious ; in fact, the experiments must
have been spoiled by an incidental suggestion !,.
A man with a faith so lively as M. Dupotet was
just the person to undertake the difficult mission
of converting the English to a belief in magnetism.
Accordingly we find that, very shortly after the
last decision of the Academie, M. Dupotet turned
his back upon his native soil and arrived in Eng-
land, loaded with the magnetic Huid, and ready to
re-enact all the fooleries of his great predecessors,
Mesmer and Puysegur. Since the days of Per-
kinism and metallic tractors, until 1888, magne-
tism had made no progress, and excited no atten-
tion in England. Mr. Colquhoun, an advocate at
the Scottish bar, published in that year the, till
then, inedited report of the French commission of
1881, together with a history of the science, under
the title of "Isis Revelata; or, an Inquiry into the
Origin, Progress, and present State ofAnimal Mag-
netism." Mr. Colquhoun was a devout believer,
and his work was full of enthusiasm. It succeeded
in awakening some interest upon a subject cer-
tainly very curious, but it made few or no converts.
An interesting article, exposing the delusion, ap-
peared in the same year in the" Foreign Quarterly
Review ;" and one or two medical works noticed
the subject afterwards, to scout it and turn it
THE MAONETISERS.
into ridicule. The arrival of M. Dupotet, in 1897,
worked quite a revolution, and raised Animal Mag-
netism to a height of favour, as great as it had
ever attained even in France.
He began by addressing letters of invitation to
the principal philosophers and men of science, phy-
sicians, editors of newspapers, and others, to wit.
ness the experiments, which were at first carried
on at his own residence, in Wigmore-street, Caven-
dish-square. Many of them accepted the invita...
tion; and, though not convinced, were aurprised
and confounded at the singular influence which he
e~ercised over the imagination of his patients.
Still, at first, his success was not flattering. To
quote his own words, in the dedication of his work
to Earl Stanhope, " he spent several months in
fruitless attempts to induce the wise men of the
country to study the phenomena of magnetism.
His incessant appeals for an e~amination of these
novel facts remained unanswered, and the press
began to declare against him:• With a saddened.
heart, he was about to renounce the design he
hsd formed of spreading magnetism in England,
and carry to some more credulous people the im.
portant doctrines of which he had made himself
the apostle. Earl Stanhope, however, encouraged
him to remain; telling him to hope for a favour-
able change in public opinion, and the eventual
triumph of that truth of which he was the de-
fender. M. Dupotet remained. He was not so
THE MAONETISERS.
cruel as to refuse the English people a sight of
hia wonders. Although they might be ungrateful,
his kindness and patience should be long endur-
ing.
In the course of time his perseverance met its
r.eward. Ladies in search of emotions-the hys-
teric, the ·idle, the puling, and the ultra-eenti-
mental crowded to his saloons, as ladies similarly
predisposed had crowded to Mesmer's sixty years.
before. Peers, members of the House of Commons,
philosophers, men of letters, and physicians came
in great numbers-some to believe, some to doubt,
and a few to scoff. M. Dupotet continued his ex-
periments, and at last made several important con-
verts. Moat important of all for a second Mesmer,
he found a second D'Eslon.
Dr. Elliotson, the most conspicuous among the
converts of Dupotet, was, like DtEslon, a physician
in extensive practice -a thoroughly honest man,
but with a little too much enthusiasm. The pa.
rallel holds good between them in every particular ;
for, as IYEslon had done before him, Dr. Elliot-
son soon threw his master into the shade, and
attracted all the notice of the public upon him·
self. · He was at that time professor of the prin-
ciples and practice of medicine at the University
College, London, and physician to the hospital.
In conjunction with M. Dupotet, be commenced a
course of experiments upon some of the patients
in that institution. The reports which were pub--
TH.E MAGNBTISERS. 875
liahed from time to time1 partook so largely ofthe
marvellous, and were corroborated by the evidence
of men whose learning, judgment, and integrity
it was impossible to call in question, that the
public opinion was .staggered. Men were ashamed
to believe, and yet afraid to doubt; and the sub-
ject at last became so engrossing that a committee
of some of the most distinguished members of the
medical profession undertook to investigate the
phenomena, and report upon them.
In the mean time, Dr. Elliotson and M. Dupotet
continued the public exhibition at the hospital;.
while the credulous gaped with wonder, and only
some few daring spirits had temerity enough to
hint about quackery and delusion on the -part of
the ,doctors, and imposture on the part of the
patients. The phenomena induced in two young
women, sisters, named Elizabeth and Jane Okey,.,
were so extraordinary that they became at last the
chief, if not the only proofs of the science in Lon-
don. We have not been. able to meet with any
reports of these experiments from the pen of an
unbeliever, and are therefore compelled to rely
solely upon the reports published under the au-
thority of the magnetisers themselves, and given
to the world in u The Lancet•• and other medical
journals.
Elizabeth Okey was an intelligent girl, aged
abour seventeen, and was admitted into the Uni-
versity College hospital,· suffering under attacks
THE MAONETISERS.
of epilepsy. She was magnetised repeatedly by
M. Dupotet in the autumn of 1887, and afterwards
by Dr. Elliotson at the hospital, during the spring
and summer of 1888. By the usual process, she
was very easily thrown into a state of deep un-
conscious sleep, from which she was aroused into
somnambulism and delirium. In her waking state
she was a modest well-behaved girl, and spoke
but little. In the somnambulic state, she ap-
peared quite another being ; evinced considerable
powers of mimicry : sang comic songs ; was obe-
dient to every motion of her magnetiser ; and
was believed to have the power of prophesying
the Teturn of her illness-the means of cure, and
even tlt\} death or recovery of other patients in
the ward.
Mesmer bad often pretended in his day that be
could impart the magnetic power to pieces of me-
tal or wood, strings of silk or cord, &c. The
reader will remember his famous battery, and the
no less famous tree of M. de Puysegur. During
the experiments upon Okey, it was soon discovered
that all the phenomena could be produced in her,
if she touched any object that had been previously
me11merised by the will or the touch of her mag-
netiser. At a sitting, on the 5th of July 1888,
it was mentioned t~at Okey, some short time pre-
viously, and while in the state of magnetic lucidity,
had prophesied that, if mesmeti~red tea were placed
in each of her bands, no power in nature woqld
THE MAGNETISERS. 877
be able to awake her until after the lapse of a
quarter of an hour. The experiment was tried
accordingly. Tea which had been touched by the
magnetiser was placed in each band, and she im-
mediately feJl asleep. After ten minutes, the cus-
tomary means to awaken her were tried, but with-
out effect. She was quite insensible to all external
impressions. In a quarter of an hour, t~ey were
tried with redoubled energy, but still in vain. She
was left alone for six. minutes longer; but she still
slept, and it was found quite impossible to wake
her. At last some one present remarked that
this wonderful sleep would, in all probability, last
till the tea was removed from her hands. The
suggestion was acted upon, the tea was taken away,
and she awoke in a few seconds.•
On the 12th- of July, just a week afterwards,
numerous experiments as to the capability of dif-
ferent substances for conveying the magnetic in-
fluence were tried upon her. A slip of crumpled
paper, magnetised by being held in the hand, pro-
duced no effect. A penknife magnetised her imme-
diately. A piece of oilskin had no influence. A
watclt placed on her palm sent her to sleep im-
mediately, if the metal part were first placed in
contact with her; the glass did not affect her so
quickly. As she was leaving the room, a sleeve-cuff
made of brown-holland, which had been accident-
ally magnetised by a spectator, stopped her in mid
· * "Lancet,.. vol. ii. 1887-8, p. 685.
S78 THE MAONETISERS.
career, and sent her fast to sleep. It was also
found that, on placing the point of her finger on a
sovereign which bad been magnetised, she was im-
mediately stupitied. A pile of sovereigns produced
sleep ; but if they were so placed that she could
touch the surface of each coin, the sleep became
intense and protracted.
Still more extraordinary ·circu~tancea were re-
lated of this patient. In her state of magnetic
sleep, she said that a tall black man, or negro,
attended her, and prompted the answers she was
to give to the various perplexing questions that
were put to her. It was also asserted that she
could use the hack of her hand as an organ of
VISion. The first time this remarkable phenome.
non was said to have been exhibited was a few days
prior to the 5th of July. On the latter day, being
in what was called a state of loquacious somnam-
bulism, she was asked by Dr. Elliotson•s assistant
whether she had an eye in her hand. She replied
that 11
it was a light there, and not an eye."-
" Have you got a light anywhere else 1"-~~ No,
none anywhere else.''-'~ Can you see with the in-
side as well as the out 1"-"Yes ; but very little
with the inside.'•
On the 9th of July bread with butter was given
to her, and while eating it she drank some mag-
netised water, and falling into a stupor dropped
her food from her hand and frowned. The eye~
partially closed, had the abstracted aspect that
1\
THE MAONETISERS. 379
always accompanies stupefaction. The right-hand
was open, the palm upwards ; the left, with its
back presented anteriorly, was relaxed and curved.
The bread being lost, she moved her left-hand
about convulsively until right over the bread, when
a clear view baing obtained, the band turned sud-
denly round and clutched it eagerly. Her hand
was afterwards wrapped in a handkerchief; but
then she could not see with it, and laid it on her
lap with an expression of despair.
These are a few only of the wonderful feats of
Elizabeth Okey. Jane was not quite so clever;
but she nevertheless managed to bewilder the
learned men almost as much as her sister. A
magnetised sovereign having been placed on the
floor, Jane, then in the state of delirium, was di·
rected to stoop and pick it up. She stooped, and
having raised it about three inches, was fixed in
a souQd sleep in that constrained position. Dr.
Elliotson pointed his finger at her, to discharge
some more of the mesmeric fluid into her, when
her hand immediately relaxed its grasp of the
coin, and she re-awoke into the state of delirium,
exclaiming, " God bless my soul !..
It is now time to mention the famous gold-chain
experimentwhichwas performed at the hospital upon
Elizabeth Okey, in the presence of Count Flahault,
Dr. Lardner, Mr. Knatchbull the professor of Ara.-
bic in the University ofOxford, and many other gen-
tlemen. The object of the experiment was to de-
380 THE MAGNETISERS.
monstrate that, when Okey held one end of a gold
chain, and Dr. Elliotson, or any other magnetiser,
the other, the magnetic fluid would travel through
the chain, and, after the lapse of a minute, stupify
the patient. A long gold chain having been twice
placed around her neck, Dr. Elliotson at once
threw her into a state of stupor. It was then
found that, if the intermediate part of the chain
were twisted around a piece of wood, or a roll
of paper, the passage of the fluid would be checked,
and stupor would not so speedily ensue. If the
chain were removed, she might be easi!y thrown
into the state of delirium; when she would sing at
the request of her magnetiser ; and, if the chain
were then unrolled, her voice would be arrested
in the most gradual manner; its loudness first di-
minishing- the tune then becoming confused, and
finally lost altogether. The operations of her in.
tellect could be checked, while the organs of.sound
would still continue to exert themselves. For in-
stance, while her thoughts were occupied on the
poetry and air of Lord Byron's song, " The Maid
of Athens,, the chain was unrolled; and when abe
had reached the line, " My life, I love you !" the
stupor had increased ; a cold statue-like aspect
crept over the face -the voice sank -the limbs
became rigid;_ the memory was gone -the faculty
offorecasting the thoughts had departed, and but
one portion of capacity remained- that of repeat-
ing again and again, perhaps twenty times, the line
THE MAGNETISElts. S81
and mustc which bad last issued from her lips,
without pause, and in the proper time, until the
magnetiser stopped her voice altogetl;ler, by further
unrolling the chain and stupifying her. On an-
other trial, she was stopped in the comic song,
" Sir Frog be.would a wooing go,>• when she came
to the line,
" Whether his mother would let him or no ;"
while her left hand outstretched, with the chain
in it, was moving up and down, and the right
toe was tapping the time on the floor ; and with
these words and actions she persevered for fifty
repetitions, until the winding of the chain re-opened
her faculties, when she finished the song.•
The report from which we have extracted the
above passage further informed the public and the
medical profession, and expected them to believe,
that, when this species of stupefaction was produced
while she was employed in any action, the action
was repeated as long as the mesmeric influence
lasted. For instance, it was asserted that she was
once deprixed of the motion of every part of her
body, except the right forefinger, with which she
was rubbing her chin; and that, when thrown into
the trance, she continued rubbing her chin for seve-
ral minutes, until she was unmagnetised, when she
ceased. A similar result was obtained when she
was smoothing down her hair ; and at another time
• " Lancet," vol. ii. 1887-8, p. 617.
1\
181 THE MAGNETISERS.
when sbe wa• imitating the laughter of the specta-
tors. excited beyond control by her clever mimicry.
At another time she was auddenly thrown into the
state of delirious stupor while pronouncing the
word " you." of which she kept prolonging the
sound for several minutes, with a sort of vibrating
noise. until she was awakened. At another time,
when a magnetised sovereign was given to her,
wrapped up in paper, she caught it in her hand,
and turned it round flatwiae between her fingers,
saying that· it waa wrapped up " very neatly in..
deed." Tho mesmeric influence caught her in the
remark. which she kept repeating over and over
again, all the while twirling the 1overeign round
and round untll the influence in the coin had
evaporated.
We are also told of a remarkable instance of the
force of the magnetic power. While Eli~abeth
Okey wa11 one day employed in writing, a 11overeign
which had been imbued with the.ftuid was placed
upon her boot. In half a minute her leg was pa..
talyzed-..rooted to the floor-....perfeetly immov..
able at the joints, and visited, apparently, with
pain so intense that the girl writhed in agony.
~' The mu!icles of the leg were found," says tho
report, 11
as rigid and stiff as if they had been
carved in wood. When the sovereign was removed,
the pain left her in a quarter of.a minute. On a
subsequent day, a mesmerised sovereign was placed
in her left band as it hung at her side, with the
THE MAGNETISERS. 388
palm turned slightly outwards. The band and
arm were immediately paralyzed-fixed with mar-
ble-like firmness!' No general stupor having oc-
curred, she was requested to move her arm ; but
she could not lift it a bair's-breadtb from her side.
On another occasion, when in a state of delirium,
in which she had remained three hours, 8he was
aaked to describe her feelings when she handled
any magnetised object and went offinto the stupor.
She had never before, although several times asked1
given any information upon the subject. She now
replied that, at the moment of losil)g her senses
through any manipulations, she experienced a sen..
eation of opening in the crown of her head; that
she never knew when it closed again ; but that her
eyes seemed to become exceedingly large ;_,..three
times as big as before. On recovering from this
state, she remembered nothing that bad taken
place in the interval, whether that interval were
hours or days ; her only sensation was that of
awakening, and of something being lifted from
her eyes.
The regular publication of these marvellous ex.
periments, authenticated as they were by many e~i..
nent. names, natura1ly excited the public attention
in an extreme degree. Animal Magnetism became
the topic of discussion in every circle-politics and
literature were for a time thrown into ~be shade, so
strange were the facts; or so wonderful was the de..
.lusion. The public journals contented themselves
•
{ 1\
THE ~AONETISER$.
in many instances with a mere relation of the J'e-
sults, without giving any opinion as to the cause.
One of them which gave a series of reports upon
the subject, thus described the girl, and avowed its
·readiness to believe aU that was related of her.•
u Her appearance as she sits, as pale and almost as
still as a corpse, is strangely awful. She whistles
to oblige Dr. Elliotson: an incredulous bystander
presses his fingers upou her lips ; she does not ap.
pear conscious of the nature of the interruption ;
but when asked to continue, replies in childish sur-
prise, ' it can't.' This state of magnetic semi-exist-
ence will continue we know not how long. She
has continued in it for twelve days at a time, and
when awakened to real life forgets all that has oc-
curred in the magnetic one. Can this be decep.
tion? We have conversed with the poor child in
her ordinary state as she sat by the fire in her ward,
sufFering from the headach, which persecutes her
almost continually when not under the soothing in-
fluence of the magnetic operation, and we confess
we never beheld anybody less likely to prove an
impostor. \Ve have seen Professor Faraday exert-
ing his acute and sagacious powers for an hour
together, in the endeavour to detect some physical
discrepancy in her performance, or elicit some blush
of mental confusion by his naive and startling re-
marks. But there was nothing which could be de-
tected, and the professor candidly confessed that
* Morning Post, March 2, 1838.
•
' 1\
THE MAGNETISERS. 885
the matter was beyond his philosophy to un-
ravel."
Notwithstanding this sincere, and on the point of
integrity, unimpeachable evidence in her favour;
notwithstanding that she appeared to have no mo-
tives for carrying on so extraordinary and long-con-
tinued a deception, the girl was an impostor, and
all these wise, learned, and cont~mplative men her
dupes. It was some time, however, before this
fact was clearly established, and the delusion dissi-
pated by the clear light of truth. In the mean
time various other experiments on the efficacy of
the supposed magnetic power were tried in various
parts of England ; but the country did not furnish
another epileptic girl so clever as Elizabeth Okey.
An exhibition of the kind was performed on a girl
named Sarah Overton, at the workhouse of the parish
of St. Martin's-in-the-Fields. The magnetiser on
this oc~asion was Mr. Bainbridge, the parish sur-
geon. It is but justice to him to state, that he con-
ducted the experiments with the utmost fairness,
and did not pretend to produce any of the won-
drous and incredible phenomena of other practi-
tioners. This girl, whose age was about twenty,
bad long been subject to epileptic fits, and appeared
remarkably simple and modest in her manners and
appearance. She was brought into the room and
placed in a chair.. About twenty gentlemen were
present. Mr. Bainbridge stationed himself behind,
and pointed his fingers at her brain, while his assist-
voL. m. 2 c
386 TUE MAGNETJSERS.
ant in front made the magnetic passes before her
eyes, and over her body. It cannot be said that
her imagination was not at work ; for she bad been
previously magnetised, and was brought in with her
eyes open, and in complete possession of all her
faculties. No means bad been taken to prevent in-
terruption during the sitting ; new visiters con-
tinually arrived, and the noise of the opening and
shutting of the door repeatedly called from Mr.
Bainbridge a request that all should be kept silent.
The girl herself constantly raised her head to see
who was coming in ; but still, in direct contradic-
tion to M. Dupotet, and, indeed, all the magnet-
isers, who have repeated over and over again, that
interruption destroys the magnetic power, she
fell into a deep sleep at the end of about twelve
minutes. In this state, which is that called " Mes-
meric Coma," she was quite insensible. Though
pulled violently by the hair, and pricked on the
arm with a pin, she showed no signs of conscious-
ness or feeling. In a short time afterwards, she
was awakened into the somnambulic or delil'ious
state, when she began to converse freely with the
persons around her, but more especially with her
magnetiser. She would _
sing if required, and even
dance in obedience to his command, and pretended
to see him although her eyes were closely blind-
folded with a handkerchief. She seemed to have a
constant tendency to faJl back into the state of
coma, and had to be aroused with violence every
TilE MAGNETISERS. 887
t'!O or three minutes to prevent a relapse. A mo-
tion of the hand before her face was sufficient to
throw her, in the middle of a song, into this insen..
siblE! st·ate ; but it was observed particularly that she
fell at regular intervals, whether any magnetic
passes were made at her or not. It was hinted
aloud to a pers~n present that be should merely
bend his body before her, and she would become in-
sensible, and fall to the ~round. The pass was
made, and she fell accordingly into the arms of a
medical gebtleman, who stood behind ready to
receive her. The girl having been again aroused
into the state of delirium, another person, still
audibly, was requested to de:> the same. He did
not ; but the girl fell as before. The experi-
ments were sufficient to convince the author that
one human being could indubitably exercise a very
wonderful influence over another ; but that imagin-
ation only, and not the mesmeric fluid, was the
great agent by which these phenomena could be
produced in persons ofstrong faith and weak bodies.
Some gentlemen present were desirous of trying
whether any of the higher mesmeric states, such as
that of lucidity and clairvoyance could be pro-
duced. Mr. Bainbridge was willing to allow the
experiment to be made, but previously expressed
his own doubts upon the subject. A watcll was
then put into her bosom, the dial plate and glass
against her skin, to ascertain _
whether she could see
without the intervention of the ?rgans of sight.
2·c 2
888 THE MAGNETISERS.
She was asked what hour it was ; and was promised
a shilling if she would tell by the watch which had
been placed in her bosom. She held out her hand
for the shilling, and received it with great delight.
She was then asked if she could see the watch ?
She said uno-not a watch; she could see some-
thing-something that was very pretty indeed."
u Come, come, Sally," said Mr. Bainbridge, ~· you
must not be so stupid ; rouse up, girl, and tell us
what o'clock -it is, and I'll give you another shil-
ling!." The girl at this time seemed to be-
relapsing
into a deep sleep; but on being shaken, aroused
herself with a convulsive start. In reply to further
questions, she said, u she could see a clock, a very
pre.tty clock, indeed!" She was again asked, five
or six times, what the hour was : she at l~st replied
that n it was ten minutes to two." The watch
being th~n taken out of her bosom, it was found to
be on the stroke of two. Every one present, in-
cluding the magnetiser, confessed that there was
nothing wonderful in the conjecture she had hazard-
ed. She knew perfectly well what hour it was be-
fore she was brought into the·ward, as there was a
large clock in the workhouse, and a bell which rang
at dinner time; she calculated mentally the interval
that had since elapsed, and guessed accordingly.
The same watch was afterwards advanced four or
fi'Ve hours, and put into her bosom without a word
being said in her hearing. On being again asked
what o'clock it was by that watch, and promised
THE .MAGNETISERS. 889
another shilling if she would tell, she still replied
that it was near two- the actual time. Thus, as
Mr. Bainbridge bad predicted, the experiment came
to nothing. The whole case of this girl ofFered a
striking instance of the power of imagination, but
no proof whatever of the supposed existence of the
magnetic fluid.
The Medical Committee of the University Col-
lege Hospital took alarm at a very early period
at the injury which might be done to that Insti-
tution, by the exhibitions of Okey and her mag-
netisers. A meeting was held in June 1888, at
which Dr. Elliotson was not present, to take into
consideration the reports of the experiments that
bad been published in the Medical Journals. Re-
solutions were then passed to the effect, that Dr.
Elliotson should be requested to refrain from fur-
ther public exhibitions of mesmerism ; and, at the
same time, stating the wish of the Committee not
to interfere with its private employment as a reme-
dial agent, if be thought it would be efficacious
upon any of the patients of the Institution. Dr.
Elliotson replied, that no consideration should pre-
vent him from pursuing the investigation of Ani-
mal Magnetism; but that he had no desire to
make a public exhibition of it. He had only given
lectures and demonstrations when numbers of scien-
tific gentlemen were present; he still continued to
receive numerous letters from learned and eminent
men, entreating permission to witness the pheno-
890 THE MAGNETISERS.-
menn ; but if the Committee willed it, he should
admit no person without their sanction. He shortly
afterwards sent a list of the names of individuals
who "·ere anxious to witness the experiments~
The Committee returned it to him unread, with
the reply that they could not sanction any exhibi-
tion that was so entirely foreign to the objects ofthe
Hospital. In answer to this, Dr. Elliotson reite-
rated his full belief in the doctrines of Animal Mag-
netism, and his conviction that his experiments
would ultimately throw a light upon the operations
of nature, which would equal, if not exceed, that
elicited by the .greatest discoveries of by-gone ages.
The correspondence dropped here; and the experi.,.
ments -continued 88 usual
The scene, however, was drawing to a c1ose. · On
the 25th of August, a notice was published in the
Lancet, to· the effect, that some experiments had
been performed on the girls Elizabeth and Jane
Okey, at the house of Mr. Wakley, 8 report of
which was only withheld in the hope that the Com-
mittee of Members of the Medical Profession, then
sitting to investigate the phenomena of mesmerism,
would publish their report of what they bad .wit-
nessed. It was further stated, that whether that
Committee did or did not publish their report, the
result of the experiments at Mr. Wakley's house
should certainly be made known in the next number
of that journal. Accordingly, on the 1stofSeptem-
ber appeared a statement, which overthrew, in the
THE MAGNETlSERS. 391
most complete manner, the delusion of mesmerism.
Nothing could have been better conducted than
these experiments; nothing could be more decisive
of the fact, that all the phenomena were purely the
results of the excited imaginations of the girls,
aided in no slight degree by their wilful deception.
The first experiments were performed on the
16th of August, in the presence of Mr. Wakley, M.
Dupotet, Dr. Elliotson, Dr. Richardson, Mr. Her-
ring, Mr. Clarke, and Mr. G. Mills the writer of
the published repor.ts of the experiments at the
University College Hospital. Dr. Elliotson had
said, that nickel was capable of retaining and trans..
mitting the magnetic fluid in an extraordinary de--
gree ; but that lead possessed no such virtues. The
effects of the nickel, be was confident, would be
quite astounding; but that lead might always be
applied with impunity. A piece of nickel was pr?-
duced by the Doctor, about three quarters of an
ounce in weight, together with a piece of lead of
the same shape and smoothness, but somewhat
larger. Elizabeth Okey was seated in a chair; and,
by a few passes and manipulations, was thrown into
the state of " ecstatic delirium.'' A piece of thick
pasteboard was then placed in front of her face, and
held in that situation by two of the spectators, so
that she could not see what was passing either be-
low or in front ofher. Mr. Wakley having receiv-
ed both the nickel and the lead, seated himself op-
posite the girl, and applied the lead to each hand
892 THE MAGNETJSERS.
alternately, but in such a manner as to lead her to
believe that both metals had been used. No effect
was produced. The nickel magnetised by Dr.
Elliotson was, after a pause, applied in a similar
manner. No results followed. After another pause,
the lead was several times applied, and then again
the nickel. After the last application of the nickel,
the face of the patient became violently flushed, the
eyes were convulsed into a startling squint, she fell
back in the chair, her breathing was hurried, her
limbs rigid, and her back bent in the form of a
bow. She remained in this state for a..quarter of
an hour.
This experiment was not considered a satisfactory
proof of the magnetic powers of the nickel ; and.
Dr. Elliotson suggested that, in the second experi-
ment, that metal should alone be tried. Mr. Wak-
lt1Y was again the operator ; but, before commenc-
ing, he stated privately to Mr. Clarke, that instead
of using nickel only, he would not employ the nickel
at all. Mr. Clarke, unseen by any person present,
took the piece of nickel; put it into his waistcoat
pocket; and walked to the window, where he re-
mained during the whole of the experiment. Mr.
Wakley again sat down, employing both hands, but
placing his fingers in such a manner, that it was
impossible for any person to see what substance he
held. Presently, on applying his left hand, the
girl's vision being still obstructed by the pasteboard,
Mr. Herring, who was standing near, said in a.
1\ I
THE MAGNETISERS. 998
whisper, and with much sincerity~ "Take care, don't
apply the nickel too strongly." Immediately the
face of the girl became violently red, her eyes were
fixed in an intense squint, she fell back convulsively
in her chair, and all the previous symptoms were
produced more powerfully than before. Dr. Elliot-
son observed that the effects were most extraordi-
nary ; that no other metal than nickel could produce
them, and that they presented a beautiful series of
phenomena. This paroxysm lasted ha.lf an hour.
Mr. Wakley retired with Dr. EUiotson and the
other gentlemen into an adjoining room, and con-
vinced them that he had used no nickel at all, but
a piece of lead and a farthing.
This experiment was twice repeated with the
same results. A third trial was made with the
nickel, but no effect was produced.
On the succeeding day the experiments were re.
peated upon both the sisters, chiefly with mesmer-
ised water and sovereigns. The investigation oc-
cupied about five hours, and the following were the
results :-
1. Six wine glasses, filled with water unmes-
merised, were placed on a table, and Jane Okey
being called in, was requested to drink from each
of them successively. She did so, and no effect was
produced.
2. The same six glasses stood on the table, the
water in the feurth having been subjected for a long
time to the supposed magnetic influence. She was
THE MAGNETISERS.
requested in like manner to drink of these. She
did so, and again no effect was produced, although,
according· to the doctrine of the magnetiae:rs, she
ought to have been immediately .fixed on drinking
of the fourth.
8. In this experiment the position ofthe glasses
was changed. There was no result.
4. Was a repetition of the foregoing. No :re-
sult.
5. The water in all the .glasses was subjected to
the supposed magnetic influence from the fingers
,a( Dr. Elliotson, until,in his opinion, it was strongly
magnetised. Still no result.
6. The gla.
sses were fi.lled up with fresh water
unmesmerised. No result.
7. The water was strongly magnetised in each
glass, and the girl emptied them all. No result.
, It would be needless to go thrbugh the whole
series of experiments. The results may be briefly
stated. Sovereigns unmesmerised threw the girls
into convulsions, or fixed them. Mesmerised sove-
reigns sometimes did and sometimes did not pro-
duce these symptoms. Elizabeth Okey became re-
peatedly fixed when drinking unmagnetised water ;
while that which had been subjected to the powers
of a supposed magnetic battery, produced no re-
sults. Altogether twenty.nine experiments were
tried, which convinced every one present, except
Dr. Elliotson, that Animal Magnetism was a delu-
1\ I
THE MAGNETISERS. 895
sion, that the girls were of very. exciteable imagin-
ations, and arrant impostors.
Their motives for carrying on. so extraordinary
a deception have often been .asked. The ques-
tion is easily .answered. Poor girls, unknown
and unnoticed, or, if noticed, perhaps despised,
they found themselves all at once .the obsened .of
all obser..ver.s, by the really remarkable symptoms
of their dis-ea~, whi~h it required no aid from
magnetism to produce. Flattered by the oft-re-
peated experiments and constv.nt attentions of doc-
tors and le.amed men, who had begun by deluding
themselves, they imagined themselves persons of
vast importance, and encouraged by degrees the
whims of their physicians, as the means of pro-
longing the consideration they so uqexpectedly en-
joyed. Constant practice made them at last .all
but perfect in the parts they were performing; and
they f~iled at last, not from a want of ingenuity,
or of a most-wonderful power over their own minds,
and by their minds upon their bodies, but from the
physical impossibility .of seeing through a thick
pasteboard, or into the closed hands of Mr. Wak..
ley. The exposure that was made was complete
and decisive. From that day forth, magnetism
in England has hid its diminished head, and af-
fronted no longer the common sense of the age.
M. Dupotet is no more heard of, the girls Okey
afford no more either wonder or amusement by
396 THE MAG1U.TISER8.
their clever acting, and reason has resumed her
sway in the public mind.
A few more circumstances remain to be stated.
Elizabeth Okey left the hospital ; but was re-ad.
mitted some weeks afterwards, labouring under
ischuria, a fresh complaint, unconnected with her
former malady. As experiments in magnetism
were still tried upon her privately, notwithstanding
the recent exposure and the all but universal de-
rision of the public, the House Committee of the
hospital, early in December, met to consider the
expediency of expelling the girl. Dr. Elliotson,
on that occasion, expressed his opinion that it was
necessary to retain her in the hospital, as she was
too ill to be discharged. It was then elicited from
the nurse, who was examined by the Committee,
that Okey, when in the state of 6
.' magnetic de-
lirium," was in the habit of prophesying the death
or recovery of the patients in the ward ; that, with
the consent of Dr. Elliotson, she had been led in
the twilight into the men's ward, and had pro.
phesied in a similar manner ; her predictions being
taken down in writing, and given in a sealed paper
to the apothecary, to be opened after a certain
time, that it might be seen whether they were veri·
fied. Dr. Elliotson did not deny the fact. The
nurse also stated more particularly the manner in
which the prophecies were delivered. She said
that, on approaching the bed of a certain patient,
Okey gave a convulsive shudder, exclaiming that
THE MAGNETISERS. 897
11
Great Jacky was sitting on the bedclothes t "
On being asked to explain herself, she said that
Great Jacky was the angel of death. At the
bedside of another patient she shuddered slightly,
and said "Little Jacky was there I" Dr. Elliotson
did not altogether discredit the predictions ; but
imagined they might ultimately be verified by the
death or recovery of the patient. Upon'the minds
of the patients themselves, enfeebled as they were
by disease and suffering, the worst effects. were
produced. One man's death was accelerated by
the despondency it occasioned, and the recovery
of others was seriously impeded. ·
When these facts became known, the Council
of the College requested the Medical Committee
to disc~arge Okey and prevent any further exhibi-
tions of Animal Magnetism in the wards. The
latter 'part of this request having been communi-
cated.to Dr. Elliotson, he immediately sent in his
resign.ation. A successor was afterwards appointed
in the person of Dr. Copland. At his inaugural
lecture the students of the coJlege manifested a
riotous dispqsition, called repeatedly for their old
instructor, and refused to allow the lecture to pr0o.
ceed; but it appears the disturbance was caused by
their respect and affection for Dr. Elliotson indi-
vidually, and not from any participation in his
ideas about magnetism.
· Extravagant as the vagaries of the English pr0o.
fessors of magnetism may appear, they are actual
898 THE MkONETISERS.
common sense iri comparison with the aberrations
of the Germans. The iatter hue revived all the
exploded doctrines of the Rosicrucians ; and in an
age which is called enlightened, have disinterred
from the rubbish of antiquity, the wildest super-
stitions of their predecessors, and built upon them
theories more wild and startling than anything be-
fore attempted or witnessed among mankind. Pa.-
racelsus and Bohmen, Borri and Meyer, with their
strange heterogeneous mixture of alchymy and re-
ligion, but paved the way for the stranger, and
even more extravagant mixt~re of magnetism and
religion, as now practised in Germany. Magne..
tism, it is believed, is the key of all knowledge,
and opens the door to those forbidden regions
where all the wonders of God's .works are made
clear to the mind of man. The magnetic patient
is possessed of a11 gifts- can converse with my-
riads o£ spirits, and even with God himself-be
transported with greater rapidity than the light-
ning's flash to the moon or the stars, and see
their inhabitants, and hold converse with them on
ihe wonders and beauties of their separate spheres,
and the power and goodness of the God who made
them. Time and space are to them as if annihi-
lated -nothing is hidden from them - past, pre-
sent, or future. They divine the laws by which the
universe is upheld, and snatch the secrets of the
Creator -from the darkness in which, to all other
men, it is enveloped. For the last twenty or thirty
THE MAGNETISERS. 599
years these daring and blasphemous notions have
ftourished in rank luxuriance ; and men of station
in society, learning, and apparent good sense in all
the usual affairs of life, have publicly giveh in
their adhesion, and encouraged the doctrine by
their example, or spread it abroad by their pre-
cepts. That the above summary of their tenets
may not be deemed an exa~eration we enter into
particulars, and refer the incredulous that human
folly in the present age could ever be pushed so
far, to chapter and verse for every allegation.
In a work published in Germany in 1817, by
J. A. L. Richter, entitled "Considerations on Ani-
mal Magnetism," the author states that in mag-
netism is to be found the solution of the enigmas
of human existence, and particularly the enigmas
of Christianity, on the mystic and obscure parts
of which it throws a light which permits us to
gaze clearly on the secrets of the mystery. Wolf-
art's " Annals of Animal Magnetism, abound with
similar passages ; and Klose's celebrated .work
is written in the same spirit. ~• Such is the won-
derful sympathy," says the latter, " between the
magnetiser and the somnambulist that he has
kno~n the latter to vomit and be purged ih con-
sequence of medicine which the former had taken.
Whenever he put pepper on his tongue, or drank
wine, the patient could taste these things dis-
tinctly on her pala~e." But Kerner's history of
the case of Madame Hauffe, the·famous magnetic
THE MAGNETISERS.
woman, "Seer" or u Prophetess of Prevorst," will
give amore complete and melancholy proof of the
sad wanderings of these Gennan " men of science/'
than any random selections we might make from
their voluminous works. This work was published
in two volumes, and the authenticity of its details
supported by Gorres, Eschenmeyer, and other men
of character and reputation in Germany: it is
said to have had an immense sale. She resided
in the house of Kerner, at Weinsberg; and being
·weak and sickly, was very easily thrown into a state
of somnambulism. u She belonged," says Kerner,
u to a world of spirits ; she was half spifit herself;
she belonged to the region beyond death, in which
she already half existed. • • • Her body clothed
her spirit like a thin veil. • • • She was small and
slightly madeJ had an Oriental expr~ssion of coun-
tenance, and the piercing eyes of a prophet, the
·gleams of which were increased in their power and
beauty by her long dark eyebrows and eyelashes.
She was a flower of light, living upon sunbeams.
• • • Her spirit often seemed to be separated
from her frame. The spirits of all things, of which
mankind in general have no perception, were per-
ceptible to and operated upmi' her, more particu-
larly the spirits of metals, herbs, men, and animals.
All imponderable matters, even the rays of light,
had an effect upon her when she was magnetised."
The smell of flint was very agreeable to her.
Salt laid on her hand caused a flow of saliva"
:
THE MAGNETISERS. 4t01
rock crystal laid on the pit of her stomach pro-
duced rigidity of the whole body. Red grapes
produced certain effects, if placed in her hands;
white grapes produced different effects. The bone
of an elk would throw her into an epileptic· fit~
The tooth of a mammoth produced a feeling of
~luggishness. A spider's web rolled into a ball
produced a prickly feeling in the hands, and a rest-
lessness in the whole body. Glow-worms threw
her into the magnetic sleep. Music somnambulised
her. When she wanted to be cheerful, she re-
quested Kerner to magnetise the water she drank,
by playing the Jew's-harp. She used to say in her
sleep, ,. Magnetise the water by seven vibrations of
the harp." If she drank water }Dagnetised in
this manner, she was constrained involuntarily to
pour forth her soul in song. The eyes of many
men threw her into the state of somnambulism.
She said that in those eyes there was a spiritual
spark, which was the mirror of the soul. If a
.magpetised rod were laid on her right eye, every
object on which she gazed appeared magnified.
It was by this means that she was enabled to see
the inhabitants of the moon. She said, that on the
]eft side of the moon, the inhabitants were great
builders, and much happier than those on the right
side. "I often see," said she to her magnetiser,
" many spirits with whom I do not come into con-
tact. Others come to me, and I speak to them ;
and they often spend months in my company. I
YOL. Ill. 2 D
THE MAONETISERS.
delusion though it was, that it has been wholly
without its uses. ·To quote the words of Bailly,
in 1784, u Magnetism bas not been altogether
unavailing to the philosophy which condemns it:
it is an additional fact to record among the
errors of the human mind, and a great experi-
ment on the strength of the imagination." Over
that vast inquiry of the influence of mind over
matter,-an inquiry which t~e embodied intellect
of mankind will never be able to fathom com·
'
pletely,- it will, at least, have thrown a feeble
and imperfect light. It will have afforded an ad-
ditional proof of the strength of·the unconquerable
will, and the weakness of matter as compared with
it ; another ilJustration of the words of the inspired
Psalmist, that " we are fearfully and wonderfully
made." If it serve no other purpose than this.
its history will prove useful. Truth ere now has
been elicited by means of error; and Animal Mag-
netism, like other errors, may yet contribute its
quota towards the instruction and improvement of
mankind.
THE END.
LO!fDOlU
l'ltUITEtJ BY U.MUtL BENTL£Y,
Bugor Bocue, Shoe Laue.
1\
