{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1841__miller___evidence_of_the_second_coming_of_christ.pdf","mytitle":"Evidence Of The Second Coming Of Christ","mylang":"de"}
Q _
E V I D E N C E
SCRIPTURE AND HISTORY
Ol' TH!
I
SECOND COMING' OF CHRIST
v ,
A'
THE YEAR 1843;
IN A COURSE OF LECTURES.
»
Br WILLIAM
MILLER.
BOSTON:
~PUBLISHED BY MOSES A.DOW,
107 HANOVER s'rnEE'r.
-
1841.
C 8605`,4/
----- -
f- . /
f _f ,
4 ff, _/
__._/
/
.
D |
'
»~
T0 ALL THEM
WHO ARE LOOKING FOR THE BLESSED HOPE
AND GLORIOUS APPEARING OF THE
GREAT GOD, AND OUR SAVIOR
JESUS CHRIST AT HAND,
THIS WURK
rs RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED
BY THE EDITOR
INTRODUCTION.
In presenting these Lectures to the public, the writer is only
complying with the solicitations of some of his friends, who have
requested that his views on the Prophecies of Daniel and John
might be made public. The reader is therefore requested to give
the subject a careful and candid perusal, and compare every part
with the standard of Divine Truth; for if the explanation the writer
has given to the scriptures under consideration should prove correct,
the reader will readily perceive that it concems us all, and becomes
doubly important to us, because we live on the eve of one of the
most important events ever revealed to man by the wisdom of God
-
the judgment of the great day,
In order that the reader may have an understanding of my man-
ner of studying the Prophecies, by which I have come to the fol-
lowing result, I have thought proper to give some' of the mles of
interpretation which I have adopted to understand prophecy.
Prophetical scripture is very much of it communicated to us by
igures and highly and richly adorned metaphors; by which I mean
that figures such as beasts, birds, air or wind, wat¢r,jire, candlesttbks,
lamps, mountains, hhmds, dsc., are used to represent things proph-
esied of- such as kingdoms, warriors, principles, people, judg~
ments, churches, word of God, large and smaller governments. ltis
metaphorical also, showing some peculiar quality of the thing proph-
esied ot, by the most prominent feature or qualityof the Ggure used,
as beasts-if a lion, power and rule; if a leopard, celer-ity; if a
bear, voracious; an oz, submissive ; aman, proud and independent.
Fire denotes justice and judgment in its ligure ; in the metaphor,
denotes the purifying- or consuming up the dross or wickedness; as
_fre has a cleansing quality, so will tltejustice orjudgments of God.
"
For when thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the
world will learn righteousness." Therefore almost all the iguree
4 IN'|.'l0DUG'.l'ION»
used in prophecy have their literal and metaphorical meaning ; as
beam denote, literally, a kingdom, so metaphorically good or bad,
as the case may be, to be tmderstood by the subject in connection.
To understand the literal meaning of figures used in prophecy, I
have pursued the following method :-I find the word "beast"
used in a Egurative sense; I take my concordance, trace the word,
and in Daniel vii. 17, it is explained to mean
"
kings or kingdoms."
Again, I come across the words "
bird or
fowl," and in Isa. xlvi.
ll, it is used, meaning a conqueror or
yvarrior,- Cyrus. Also, in
Ezekiel xxxix. 4-9, denotes armies or
conquerors. Again, the
words "
az? or wind," as used in Rev. ix. 2, and 16, 17, to under-
stand which I turn to Eph. ii. 2, and 4-14, and there leam that it
is used as a figure to denote the theories of worldly men or vain
philosophy. Again, "water or rivers" 'are used as figures in
Rev. xvii. 15, it is explained to mean
"
people or nations."
"
Rivera" of course mean the nation or
people living on the river
mentioned, as in Rev. xvi. 12. "
Fire "is ollen used in a
figurative
sense ; explained in Num. xxi. 21-28, Dcut. xxxii. 22, Psal. lxxviii.
21, Hob. xii. 2, to meanjustice and judgment.
As prophecy is a
language somewhat different dom other parts
of Scripture, owing to its having been revealed in vision, and that
highly tigurative, yet God in his wisdom has so interwoven the
several prophecies, that the events foretold are not all told by one
prophet, and although they lived and prophesied in different ages of
the world. yet they tell us the same things; so you take away one,
and a link will be wanting. 'I'here is a general connection through
the whole; like a well-regulated community they all move in uni-
son, speaking the same things, observing the same rules, so that a
Bible reader may almost with propriety suppose, let him read in
what prophecy he may, that ho is reading the same
prophet, the
same author. This will appear evident to any one who will com-
pare scripture with scripture. For example, see Dan. xii. l, Matt.
xxiv. 21, Isa. xlvii. 8, Zeph. ii. 15, Rev. xviii. 7. There never was
a book written that has a better connection and harmony than the
Bible, and yet it has the appearance of a great store-house full of
all the precious commodities heart could desire, thrown in promis-
cuously; therefore, the biblical student must select and bring to-
gether every part ot' the subject he wishes to investigate, from every
part of the Bible ; then let every word have its own Scripture mean-
ing, every sentence its proper bearing, and have no contradiction,
lndyeurtheorywillaadmust of necessitybe correct. Truth is
_
mraonuenos. 5
One tmdeviating path, that grows brighter and brighter the more it
is trodden; it needs no plausible arguments nor pompous dress to
make it more
bright, for the more naked and simple the fact, the
stronger the_ truth appears.
-
Let it be noticed that God has revealed to his prophets the same
events in divers figures and at ditferent times, as he has to Daniel
in the second, seventh, and eighth chapters conceming the four
kingdoms; or to Peter, (see Acts x. 16 ;) also Isaiah and John.
Then, to get the whole truth, all those visions or
prophecies must
be concentrated and brought together, that have reference to the
subject which we wish to investigate ; and when combined, let every
word and sentence have its proper bearing and force in the grand
whole, and the theory or system, as l have before shown, must be
correct. I have likewise noticed that in those events, visions, and
prophecies which have had their fulfilment, every word and every
particular has had an exact and literal accomplishment, and that
no tvto events have ever happened, that I can learn, which will ex-
actly apply or thltil the same prophecy. Take, for instance, the
prophecies concerning the birth, life, and crucifixion of our Savior,
and in his history we find a literal fulfilment 5 yet in the birth, life,
or death of any other individual it would be in vain to End a paral-
lel. Again, take the prophecies which have been admitted, by
Protestants at least, to apply to Cyrus, Alexander, Julius Cesar,
destruction of Jerusalem, and the church of Rome, and I have never
been able to trace even a resembllnceto the prophecies in question
in any historical events except the true ones. If this is true, may
We not suppose that the unfulfilled prophecies in their accomplish-
ments will be equally as evident and literal?
There are two important points to which all prophecy seems to
centre, like a cluster of grapes upon its stem-the tirst and second
coming of Christ; the first coming to proclaim the gospel, set up
his kingdom, suffer for sinners, and bring in an
everlasting right-
eousness. His second coming, to which the ardent fhith and pious
hope of the tried and tempted child of God centres, is for complete
redemption from sin, for the justification and gloritication promised
to all those who look for his appearing, the destruction of the wicked
and mystical Babylon, the abomination of the whole earth.
His first comingwss as rt man, his human nature beingonly visible,
his Godhead known only in his miracles. His second coming will
be as God, his divine Godhead and power being most visible. He
eumltirstylike
thefgirstman
ofthe earth,earthy;" his seemd
6 tn-rsonucrros.
coming is "
the Lord from heaven." His first eomrngwas literally
according to the prophecies. And so we may safely infer will be
his second appearance, according to the Scriptures. At his advent,
his forenmner was spoken of-" one
crying in the wildemesa;" the
manner ofhis birth-"a child horn ofa virgin;" the place where
-" Bethlehem of Judea 5
"
the time of his death--" when seventy
weeks should be fulfilled 5
"
for what he should sulfer-" to malta
an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in
uverlasting righteousness, to seal up the vision and prophecy, and
to anoint the Most Holy." The star that appeared, the stripes he
received, the rairacla he performed, the taunting: of his foes-all
were literally fulfilled. Then, why not suppose that all the prophe-
cies conceming his second conringwill be as literally accomplished
as the former? Can any man show a single reason why it will
not! If this be true, we can obtain much light by reading the
Scriptures. We are there infonned of the manner of his second
coming-
"
suddenly, in the clouds, in like manner as ho ascend-
ed ;
"
the majesty of his coming-
"
ou a great white throne, with
power and great glory, and all his saints with him ;
"
the object of
his coming-" as the Ancient of Days, to send his angels into the
foltr winds of heaven, gather his elect, raise the righteous dead,
change the righteous living, chain Satan, destroy anti-Christ, the
wicked, and all thoaewho destroy the earth, judge, justify and
glorify his people, cleanse his church, present her to his Father, live
and reigrrwith har on the new heavens and new earth," the form of
the old having passed away.
The time when these things shall take place is also specihed, by
some ofthe prophets, unto 21D days, (meaning years ;) then shall
the sanctuary he cleansed, aftrrtheanti-Christian beast has reigned
her "
time, times, and a half;
"
eller the two witnesses have
prophesied
"
a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed
in saclrcloth;" alter the church captivity in the wildemess,
"
forty-
twomoaths;
'
eller the "gospel should be preached in all tho
world for awitnass, than shall the eud_eome." The signs of the
times are also given, when we may know, he is near, even at the
door. When the|aarem:rny" lo here's and lo thcre's;" when the
wayoftrethisevil spoken of; whenmanyseducersareahmad in
thelaad ; when seolfen dishelieve in his comin¢,and say,
"
Vhere
is the premise of his coming;
"
when the wise and lirolish virgins
arecalledtotrirn their lamps,and tho voice of the friend of thc
lrrlds|loelis," B»hotd,hecnseth;" ahsa thecityafthsaatinas
A
rnnonuc-non. I
lsdividedintothree parts; when the power ofthe holypeopleis
scattered, and the kings of the east come up to battle 5 when than
is a time of trouble, such as never was before, and the church in
her Laodicean state 3 when the seventh seal opens, the seventh vial
ls poured out, the last woe pronounced by the angel flying through
the midst of heaven, and the seventh and last trumpet sounds ;-
then will the mystery of God be ftnished, and the door of mercy be
closed forever; then shall we be brought to the last point, his lace
ond coming.
Again, prophecy is sometimes typical ; that is, partly fulfilled in
the type, but completely only in the antitype. Such was the
prophecy conceming Isaac, partly fulfilled in him, wholly so in
Christ; likewise conceming Israel, partly fulfilled in them as a na-_
tion, but never fully accomplished until the final redemption of
spiritual Israel. Likewise the prophecies conceming the Jewish
captivity in Babylon, and their retum, are only partly accomplished
in the history of past events. The description of those things in
the prophets is so
august and magnificent, that if only applicable
to the literal captivity of the Jews and their return, the exposition-
would be weak and barren; therefore I humbly believe that the
exact lirllilment can only be looked for in the captivity of the church
in the wildemess, under the anti-Christian beast, destruction of
mystical Babylon, and gloritication ol' the saints in the New Jeru-
salem state. ~
There are also in the 24-th chapter of Matthew many things proplv
esicd of, which were not fulfilled at the destnrction of Jerusalem;
such as the coming ol' the Son of Man in the clouds, the gathering
his elect from the four winds of heaven, his taking one and leaving
another. This shows a typical meaning in this prophecy, and that
it will not all be fulfilled until the end of the world. Also, the
transligurstion of Christ on the mount, prophesied of by himself
eight days before, is noticed by Peter, 2d Epistle, i. 16-18, as
being a type or figure of his second coming.
Who, that has read the prophecies with any degree of attention,
will not acknowledge the great agreement between the Old Testa-
ment prophecies and the New? Almost every prophecy given
by Christ and his apostles may be found, in the`Old Testament
prophets, represented by figures, Mriclr were familiar to the writers
and readers of those times. The foregoing rules are some of the
principal ones which I have observed in attempting to explain the
prophecies of Daniel and John, and to give the time when the
8 rm-nonuorrom
mystery of God will be finished, as I humbly believe it is revealed
to the prophets.
If I have erred in my exposition of the prophecies, the time, being
so near at hand, will soon expose my folly 5 but if I have the truth
on the subjects treated on in these pages, how important the era in
whieh we live! What vast and important events must soon be
realimd! and how necessary that every individual be prepared,
that that day may not come upon them unawares, while they are
surfeited with the nares and riches of this life, and the day overtake
them as a thief! "
But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that
day should overtake you as a thief," l These. v. 4. In studying
these prophecies, I have endeavored to divest myself of all pre-
possessed opinions, not warranted by the word of God, and to
weigh well all the objections that might be raised fiom the Scrip-
tures; and alter fourteen years' study of the prophecies and other
parts of the Bible, I have come to the following conclusions, and
do now commit myself into tl|e hands of God as my Judge, in
giving publicity to the sentiments herein contained, conscientiously
desiring that this little book may be the means to incite others to
study the Scriptures, and to see whether these things be so, and that
some minds may be led to believe in the word of God, and find an
interest in the offering and sacrifice of the Lamb of God, that their
sins mightbe forgiven them through the blood of the atonement,
"when the refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord,
and from the glory of his power,"
"
when he comes to be admired
in all them that believe in that day."
And now, my dear readers, I beg ofyou to lay aside prejudice;
examine this subject candidly and carefully for yourselves. Your
belief or unbelief will not affect the truth. If it is so, whatever you
may think or do will not alter the revealed purposes of God. '~
Nm
one jot nr little nf his word will fail 5
"
but you may, by your ob¢-
dience in the faith, secure you an interest in the first resurrection,
and a glorious admittance into the New Jenxsalem, and an inlier~
itanee among the justified in glory, and you may sit down with
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of God. May this be
your lot- ia the prayer of your servant,
VM. MILLER.
HAIPTOII, ||'u|hi||_glvl| C0|l1lly| N. Y.
INDEX.
"IU
I|'no»uo'non..... ......3
LECTURE I.
Tn: Bloom: Arrunura or Crnls-r. Titus ll.
13.--Lookin,
(br
that blessed hope, and glorious appearlng of the |relt God, an our
BavlorJesus Chrlst.............................................ll
LECTURE II.
Tin Flu-r Bzsnanaorron. Bev. u. 6.- Blessed and holy is he that
helh part ln the llrst resurrection: on such the second death hath
no power -shall relgn wlth him a thousand years.. . . .. . . .. .....28
'
Lacrunn rn.
Tn: Two Tnousalo TIIIII Hurouzn Dns. Dan. vlll. 13, Mt
-And he said unto me, Unto two thousand three hundred days:
then shall the sanctuary be cleansed. ...........................39
LECTURE IV.
Danlel lr. 94. -Seventy weeks are determlned upon thy people, and
u n thy holy city, to llnleh the transgreulon, and to make an end
orslns, and to make reoonclllotlon for lnlquity, and to bring ln
everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy
lndtonnoint the Most Holy....................................5l$
Lncrunn v. _
Pun Roan nvnnnan. Rev. xlll. 18. -'And his numher is slx
hundred threesoore snd slx. ....................................76
LECTURE VI.
DA|u||.'s V|s|o|r or Tlll Lrrfll Dau; ol, Al Enosrrron or 'nu
ELIVINTH Cunnan or Dunn.. Dan. I-14.-NDW I nm come
to make thee understand what shall befall thy people ln the latter
dnys.............._............................................88
LECTURE VII.
D.\mu.'e 1260, 1290 um 1335 Due zxrullrun. Daniel xll. 8.-
And I hoard, but I, understood not: then said I, O my Lord, what
shall be the end of these thlnge ?...............................l00
LECTURE VIII. `
Tn: Tmuzl Won Tlulsrrre. Rev. vili. l3.-Woe, woe, woe, to
the inhabitants of the earth by reason of the other volees ol' the
trumpet ofthe three angels whlch are yet to sound..............l15
10 nrnnx.
_
LECTURE IX. md X.
Tn: EPIITLII ro 'ml Bunn Cnuscrns or Asn, eolmnlub es
nrunm -ro Blvln Pzuom or 'ral Goaztr. Cuclcu. Rev.
l.W.... ....
..............................................lYI,145
LECTURE XI.
Tn: New Bono. Bev. v. 9.-And they sung n new song, sn ing,
Thou nrt worthy to take the book, and to open the seell thereoll; for
thou wut sleln, sad hut redeemed ueto God,l.e...............16l
LECTURE XII.
Tn: Bnvur Suu, Al urusxl-rrno Evsrrs 'ro 'nn Env or Tun.
Rev. v. 5. -Behold, the Llon of the tribe of Judnh beth prevailed
to open the book, snd to loose the seven seels thereof...........l76
LECTURE XIII.
'
Tru Two Wnnzssns, u rnvxso nun sum rn nn Fumes
Rsvoun-roar. Rev. xl. 3. -And I wlll Ive power unto my two
vvltneeses, and they shell prophesy IM; dsyl, clothed ln suck-
cloth. ........................................................l90
LECTURE XIV.
Till Worn! uv 'mx Wrmzsnxss. Rev. xii. 6.-And the women
hed into the wllderness, where she hath A pleee prepared of6od, thet
they should feed her there l980deys. ..........................2)4
LECTURE XV.
Tn Sun Luv Puetns, os Bsvur Vuu. lov. xvl. l'l.-And
the seventh angel poured out hle vlsl Into theelr; end than esme e
neatdgohe
out of the temple of heaven, from the throne,
seylga
ne.....................................................
LECTURE XVI.
'Pnl PA|ulr.l or 'nn Tlx Vnmns. Hutt. XIV. 1.-Then shell the
klngdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their
lunps, end went forth to meet the bride|room..................£B
'
Lncrqns xvn.
On nn Punrsrnssn or nu Psoru or Gen Sun 'runs ron
1-uns lun. Lsv. xxvl. IS,94................................250
LECTURE XVIII.
!olnnwn's
Bong;
vlll.5.-Who lsthlsthsl eometh
nphomthewgi
derness,leen gupnn her beloved!............................
LECTURE XIX.
liens ev 'nu Pssssn Truss. lstt. uvl. 8.-But can ye not
dlseemtheslgnsefthe tlmes? ................................QD
LECTURE I.
TITUS n. 13.
Look' for that blessed hope and orious peanng' f the
mg
pm God, ma ou; saviofixem ciifm.
°
Warm we take a view of the trials,
plains, aiiiictions,
persecutions, poverty, and distress, whic the people of
God suifer in this world, we are almost led to exclaim
with the apostle, "If in this life only we have hope, we
are of all men most miserable." But no; we will not
complain; for to suH`er the short period of threescore
years and ten, at most, will only give a greater zest to
the glory which shall follow at the
appear'
of our
Lord and Savior the great God and esusméhrisf. I
know the world are taunting us with the inquiry,
"Where is the promise of his coming? for, since the
fathers fell asleep, all things _remain as they were, even
from the creation of the world;" for they will
pretend
to be i
orantélas
the apostle Peter expresses imself
of the guge) at the world that then was, being over-
flowed with water, perished; and still more do they pre-
tend to be ignorant, that the same earth is in like man-
ner to be destroyed by fire, "reserved unto fire against
the day of `udgment and perdition oi' ungodly. men." 2
Peter Also, my brethren, there are some even
among us, who "are spots in your feasts of charity,
feeding
themselves without fear; clouds without water,
carrie about of winds; trees whose fruit withereth;
twice dead, plucked up by the roots; raging waves of
the sea, foaming out their own shame; wandering
12 Lscrnas ls
'
stars, to whom is reserved the blaclmess of darkness
forever. And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam,
pro hesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh
with ten thousand of his saints, to execute
dfudgment
upon all; and to convince all that are ungo y among
them of all their
ungodly
deeds which they have un-
gpdly committed, an of all their hard speeches which
ey have spoken against him. These are murmurers,
complainers, walking after their own lusts; and their
mouth speaking great swelling words, having men's
persons
in admiration, because of advantage. But,
eloved, remember ye the words which were spoken
before of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ; how
that they told you there should be mockers in the last
time, who should walk after their own ungodly lusts.
These be they who separate themselves, sensual, having
not the Spirit. But
ye,
beloved, building u yourselves
on your most holy aith, praying in the gloly Ghost,
keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the
mercy (or glorious
appearing)
of our Lord Jesus Christ
unto eternal life." ude 12-21. Or, as Peter says,
2 Pet. iii. 12, "
Looking for and hasting imto the coming
of the day of God." And again, Paul says, in Heb.
ix. 26, "And unto them that look for him shall he
appear the second time without sin unto salvatiim,"
And Paul further saith, to his Philippiun brethren, "
For
our conversation is in heaven; from whence also we
look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall
change
our vile body, that it may be fashioned like
unto is glorious body."
Having thus proved that the apostles directed our
hope to the coming of Christ lor the fulfilment of all
our trials and persecutions, and the completion of our
faith, I shall now take up our subject in the following
order:-I. I shall endeavor to prove that it is yet
future; viz., the comin of Christ, spoken of in the text.
II. The certainty of Ein coming. III. The object of
his coming.
I. Ve are, according to our
design, to show that
the appearing of the Lord Jesus Christ, spoken of in
the text, is yet future.
cnns'r's sncozm comma. 18
Some teach us that he came at the destruction of
Jerusalem, and quote to the 24th chapter of Matthew
as
proo£ Let us examine their evidence. As Jesus
went out of the temple, his disciples came to him for
to show him the buildings of the temple, where Christ
delivered his memorable prophecy, which was
exactly
fulilled in little more than thirtyaix years afterwards,
:hThe;leanshallbi;otthl>e letgoherg
one stone upon mother
at s not own wn.
And it
aggears
that, afterwards, as Jesus sat upon the
Mount of 'ves, the disciples came to him privately,
having, as may reasonably be supposed, been rumi~
nating in their minds, or conversing among themselves,
on the prophecy, and had, perhaps, supposed that no
power on earth could
destrctiymthose strong buildings,
and concluded that, when
`
=was accomplished, it
would be the
judgment-day. They therefore inquire
of him,
"sayin§,
ell us, when shall these thin be ?"
that is, what e had prophesied of; "and wlgzt shall
be the sign of thy
coming,
and of the end of the
wor1d?" They might not ave intended to ask more
than one question; yet they did ask three, and Christ
answered them mccordin ly. He had before told them
of the destruction of §erusalem, 4th, 5th, and 6th
verses; he cautions them against being deceived with
false Christs, and not to be troubled at wars and rumors
of wars,-and yet Jerusalem was destroyed in the
first war of an note after this prophecy,-and then
says lainly, "lhe end is not yet." Now, if this end
was the destruction of Jerusalem, then where are those
wars, spoken of by Christ? This cannot mean an
thing less than the end of the world. From the 7th
to t.he 14th verse, inclusive he gives a prophetic history
of the trials, atllictions, and persecutions of his people,
and also of the success ot' the
'gospel immediately
previo,:1s to the end, and says,
"
hen shall the end
come.
Now, it must be evident that this cannot mean the
end of Jerusalem, because, if so, he that endured unto
the end was to be saved from all the troubles which
Christ had
begn speaking of; and it was not true that
I4 ncruu a .
the disciples of Christ _did not suffer afterwards the
same things which Christ said they would. From the
15th to the 28th verse, Christ instructs his disciples
into their duty during the sie e of Jerusalem, and also
down to the coming of the gon of Man. This, you
will see, must mean Christ in person; because neither
the Holy Spirit nor Father is any where called Son
to/'
Man. He likewise speaks of the signs which should
ollow the destruction of Jerusalem. From t.he 29th
to the 35th verse, inclusive, Christ
eréglains
the signs
in the heavens and on the earth imm iately after the
tribulation of the people of God, which had been
spoken of as the common lot of all his followers, and
which he had promised to shorten for the elect's sake,
and ot' his coming in the clouds with power and
great
Elory;
the gathering of his elect from the four win s of
eaven; gives his disciples the parable of the fig tree,
as an illustration of the end ; and then says to his disci-
ples, "
Verily, I
sei
unto you, This generation shall not
pass till all these ings be fulfilled; heaven and earth
shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away."
Here is the great stumbling-block to many. Christ
is talking about his elect, his children, and his gene-
ration; and not, as some will have it, about the genera-
tions that then lived on the earth; for they did un-
doubtedly puss 05; a large share of them; for it was
about thirty-six years before the destruction of Jem.
salem. But his kingdom has never been taken from
the earth. Although they have been hunted from one
part of the earth to another; although they have been
driven into caves and dens of mountains; have been
slain, burnt, sawn asunder; have wandered as
ilgrima
and strangers on the earth;-yet the "blood) of the
martyrs has been the seed of the church;" and Christ
has had, and will_have, a people on the earth, until his
second coming. 1 Peter ii. 9: "But ye are a chosen
generation, a ro al
guriesthood,
a holy nation, a peculiar
ple," dsc. 'lyhe salmist. says,
"
A seed shall serve
EK; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a
genera-
tion." Psalm xxii. 30. I humbly believe that Christ
hal quoted the sentiment contained in the 102d Psalm,
CHl»llT'! IICUND COMING. 15
25th to last verse: "Of old hast thou laid the founda-
tion of the earth; and the heavens are the work of
thine hands. They shall perish, but thou shalt endure;
yea, all of them shall wax old like Va -garment; as a
vestnre shalt t.hou chan e them, and they shall be
changed; but thou art the same, and thy years shall
have no end. The children of thy servants shall con-
tinue, and their seed shall be established before thee."
I-lere we see the Psalmist has expressed the same
sentiment that I understand Christ to have given
in these two verses, which I conclude is the pro
er explanation. And then the parables which fel:
low in the remainder of the 24th and 25th chap-
ters, are easily understood as having reference to
the end of the world; and in that way will exactly
compare. See the 31st verse of the 25th chapter:
"When the Son of Man sllall come in his glory, and
all the
holy
an els with him, then shall he sit upon the
throne of is glory; and before him shall be gathered
all nations," &c. This verse was not fulfilled at the
destruction of Jerusalem, for the "Son of Man" was
not seen in the clouds with power and great glory;
and yet the words are, "every eye shall see him ;
'
and
as sudden and as visible "
as the
lightninp,
that shineth
from the east even unto the west, so shal the coming
of the Son of Man be." Can this have
§nsed,
and the
history of the world have been silent? o. Could all
nations be gathered before him, and there be divided,
the righteous from the wicked, and the one part sent to
everlasting punishment, while the other is received to
life eternal, and none know it? No. Were the elect
gathered from the four winds of heaven at the destruc-
tion of Jerusalem? No; they were commanded to
Hee to the mountains; and history says they did leave
that devoted cit when the Romans encompassed it with
their armies. 'lYhen, could the prophecies contained in
these chapters have been fulfilled, and the world remain
ignorant of some of the most 'important events? I
answer, No. Then the "
Son of M'an" did not come to
the destruction of Jerusalem. If he did, where is the
evidence? None, none, not a particle. But if he did
I6 |.|:c'|-ull r. _
come to the destruction of Jerusalem, then it must have
been his second
coming;
for Paul
says,
Heh. ix. 28,
"And unto them that loo for him shal he appear the
second time without sin unto salvation." Can this be
true if he came to Jerusalem? The passage certainly
implies that his
people
would have no more sin, or
afterwards would e "without sin." Experience teaches
us to the contrary. Again it is said, 1 Thee. iv. 16, 17,
"For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with
a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the
trump of God; and the dead in Christ shall arise iiret;
then we, which are alive and remain, shall be caught up
together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in
the air; and so shall we ever be with the Lord." Who
saw this great transaction at Jerusalem? Were there
no witnesses ?_ Yes, the apostle John lived many years
after this, and wrote his Gospel, his Epistles, and his
Revelation,
long
after the destruction of Jerusalem.
And what does e testify? In his Gospel, 14th chapter,
3d verse, "And if I go and prepare a lace for you, I
will come and receive you to myself, that where I am
there ye may be also." Again, 28th and 29th verses,
"Ye have heard howl said unto you,I go
away,
and
come
again unto you. If ye loved me,
tie
woud re-
gice,
because I said, I go unto the Fa er; for my
ather is greater than 1. And now I have told you
before it come to pass, that when it is come to pass, ye
might
believe." A in, l John ii. 28, "
And now, little
eh' dren, abide in that, when he shall appear, we
may have conndence, and not be ashamed before him
at his coming." And iii. 2, "Beloved, now are we the
sons of God, and it doth not et ap what we shall
be; but we know that when he shail appear, we shall
be like him; for we shall see him as he is." And,
again, in Rev. i. 7, "Behold, he cometh with clouds,
and every eye shall see him; and they also which
pierced him, and all kindreds of the earth. shall wail
ecause of him." Many more places mi ht he men-
tioned in John's testimony, but not one worh that he had
alréady
cane
again, as some
supposed. Let
this, tlien,
su eeto prove, thatthe "glonoua appears' , spe ea
of in our text, is still future.
ng
cnars'r'| neon comma. 11
And now we will examine some of the evidence of
the certainty of his coming, which is our second
prolpiosition.
~
The certainty of it:
lst. Because the ancient prophets all
sgzlre
of it.
Jude tells us that Enoch, the seventh m Adam,
prophesied, sa
'
, Behold the Lord cometh, with ten
thousands of hilialgsaints, dnc. Balsam was constrained
to admit, "Out of Jacob shall come he that shall have
dominion, and shall destroy him that remaineth of the
city," plainly
refemsgl
to the judgmenbday; for he
says, "Alas-! who s live when God doth this?"
See Numbers xxiv. 17-28. And Moses as
plainly
refers to this day in Deut. xxxii. 43, "Re'oice, O ye
nations, with his people, for he will avenge the blood of
his servants, and will render
vengeance
to his adversa-
ries, and will be merciful to his and and to his people."
David says, Psalm l. 3, 4, "Our God shall come, and
shall not
keep silence; a fire shall devour before him,
and it shall c very tempestuous round about him; he
shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth,
(that he may judge his
people?) And Isa. xl. 5, "
And
the lory of the Lord shal be revealed, and all flesh
shall see it together; for the mouth of the Lord hath
spoken it." In the 39th chapter of Ezekiel, you will
see the same day
ofiiudgment prophesied of in a. clear
and plain manner. a Dan. vii. 9, 10, "I beheld till the
thrones were cast down, and the Ancient of days did
sit, whose nnent was white as snow, and the hair of
his head 15-ge the pure wool: his throne was like the
fiery dame, and his wheels as
burning fire. A fiery
stream issued and came forth before him: thousand
thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times
ten thousand stood beibre him: the judgment was set,
and the books were opened." Joel iii. 14,"Multitudes,
multitudes in the valley of decision, for the day of the
Lord is near in the
vnlleiymof
decision." Zeph. i. 14,
"The great day of the rd is near; it is near, and
hasteth greatly, even the voice of the day of the Lord;
the
miiity
men shall cry there bitterly." Zach. xiv. 5,
'And ein-dthyGod|hall come, md all the saint:
I8 moron: r.
with thee." Mal.iv.2, "
But untoyou thsttiaar mylmms
shall the Sun of Righteousness arise with
healig
inhis
wings, and ye shall go forth, and grow up as c ves in
the stall." And Christ himself says, in Matt. xvi. 27,
"For the Son of Man shall come in the glory of his
Father, with his angels; and then shall he reward every
man according to his works." The angels that stood
b the disciples at the time Jesus ascended up, and a
chmd received him out of their sight, said, "
Ye men of
Galilee, why stand ye gazing u into heaven? This
same Jesus, which is taken up ii-,om you into heaven,
shall so come in like simmer as ye have seen him
into heaven." Let us take particular notice of tg:
phrase this some Jenn, and compare with other parallel
passages, as, our God shall come, and it will prove
to our satisfaction that Jesus Christ is God, as well as
man, and we may have strong consolation for our hope
in his appearing, for his promises can never fail.
"Heaven and earth
nag.
pass
awaizbut
not one jot
or tittle of his word s fail." A take notice of
the words "lik manner," which agree with the other
expressed sentence, "He shall come in the clouds of
heaven." We shall be led to admire the general han-
monyl
of the Scriptures, and the agreement of the
prop sts in their descriptions of tiiture events.
Again,
Christ says to the church of Philadelphia, Rev. iii. ll,
°'
Behold, I come
quickly: hold that fast thou hast, that
no man take thy crown. "For ct a little while and
he that shall come will come, ami' will not tarry," Heb.
x. 37. And will not the evidence I have brought from
the word of God be suflicient to prove the certainty of
his future coming? And if I should argue the tradition
of nations that never saw the word of God, the convic-
tion on the mind of men enerally, that there must be
a
day of retribution; co5d I open the breast of the
reader, and show the thundering of
your
conscience;
yes, could I see and expose the tremb ings and failings
of heart, which you have had, while you have been
looking with fear for those things that are coming on
the earth-of what use would it be ? Would you be
lieve it ifl could nie adeadfriendwho would tell
cr|l|s'r'| IIUOFD comms. 19
you
to
pripars
to meet your God? No. It' they bs-
'eve not osss and the
proxhets,
neither would they
though one rose from the esd. How foolish, then,
would it be for me to try to prove in any other manner
what God has revealed or promised, than by the means
which God has appointed. By his word you will be
judged; and if this condemns you now, (unless you be-
come reconci1ed,) it will condemn you herealhsr.
'
III. The object of his coming.
lst. He comes to raise and
father
his saints to him
in the air. "As in Adam all ie, so in Christ shall all
be made alive; but
eve;
man in his own order-Christ
the first fruit, aiterwar they that are Christ's at his
coming," 1 Cor. xv. 22, 23. Again, "For if we be-
lieve that Jesus died and rose
signin,
even so them also
which sleepin Jesus will Go bring with him. For
this we
say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we
which are alive, and remain unto the coming of the
Lord, shall not prevent them that are
asleep. For the
Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout,
with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump ot:
God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we,
which are alive and remain, shall be caught up together
with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air;
and so shall we ever he with the Lord," 1 These. iv.
14-17. "Now we beseech you, brethren, by the
coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering
to ether unto him," 2 'l'hess. 1. "
Blessed and holy
isis that hath part in the first resurrection: on such the
second death shall have no power," Rev. xx. 6. In
Psalms we have the same account ot' the gathering of
his people. "
Gather my saints to ether unto me, those
who have made a covenant wiki me by sacrifice,"
Psalm l. 5. Again, see Isaiah lxvi. 18, "It shall come
thatl will gather all nations and tongues; and they shall
come and see my lory."
"
For thus saith the Lord God,
Behold, I, even if will both search my
sheep
and seek
them out. As a shepherd seeketh out his ock in the
day that he is among his sheep that are scattered ; so will
I seek out my sheep, and will deliver them out of all
slaces
where they have been scattered in the cloudy and
ark day," Ezekiel xxxiv. 11, 12.
ll ucruut.
And now
Ireferynu
toons more pasage, sndtlien
pass on. "Behold, show you a mystery; we shall nd
all sleep, (that is, die, but we shall all be changed., in
a moment, in the twin
`
ofan eye, at the last trump;
for the trumpet shall soun and the dead shall be raised
incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this cor-
ruptible must put on incorrnption, and this mortal mud
put on immortality. So when this mortal shall put on
Immortality, then shall be
brogght
to pass the sa
that is written, Death is swallow np in victory." These
texts, to which I have called your attention, will a
ly
only to the people of God, or those who are in Cgiist
Jesus. I have, therefore, only been proving to you the
object of Christ's coming, as it respects his people. And
I think I have lainly proved that when Christ shall ap-
pear in the cllmuds of heaven with power and great
glory, he will raise the righteous dead, change the
righteous living, gather them from among all nations,
where they have been scattered during the ages of per-
secution and trial, "in the dark and cloudy day," and
receive them unto himself in the air, when they will ever
be with the Lord.-I will,
2dly, Show that the wicked will be destroyed from
the earth by tire, and the world cleansed from the curse
of sin by the same means, and prepared for the recep-
tion of the New Jerusalem state, or the glorious reign
of Christ with his people. That the wicked will be de.
stroyed by tire, at his
appearing:
we prove by the thllow.
ing texts: Dent. xxxii. 22, "
'or a tire is kindled in
mine anger, and shall burn unto the lowest hell, and shall
consume the earth, with her increase, and set on tire the
foundations ofthe mountains." 2 Samuel xxii. 9, 10, 13,
"
There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out
of his mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it. Ho
bowed the heavens and came down. and darkness was
under his feet. Through the brightness before him
were coals of fire kindled." Psalm xcvii. 2, Il, '~
Clouds
and darkness are round about him, righteousness and
{)r;dgment
are the habitation of his throne. A tire goeth
fore him, and bumeth up his enemies round about."
lla. lxvi. 15, 16, "For,bchold. the Lord willcnma Yi*
onars'r's noon couma. 21
Ere, and with his chariots like a whirlwind, to render his
anger with
fury,
and his rebuke with flames of fire.
For by iire an
by his sword will the
Lordflplead
with
all flesh; and the slain of the Lord shall e many."
Dan. vii. 11, "I beheld then, because ofthe voice of the
Seat
words which the hom spake; I beheld even till
e beast was slain, and his body destroyed, and given to
the burning dame." Again, Nahum i. 5, "The moun-
tains quake at him, and the hills melt, and the eart.h is
burnt at his presence; yea, the world and all that dwell
therein." Habakkuk iii. 3-5," God came from Teman,
(south) and the Holy One from Mount Paran, (from
glorg.)
Selah. His glory covered the heavens, and the
ea was full of his praise: and his brightness was as
the light; he had homs coming out of his hand; and
there was the hiding of his power. Before him went
the pestilence, and burning coals went forth at his feet.
He stood and measured the earth; he beheld and drove
asunder the nations, and the
everlasting
mountains were
scattered, the perpetual hills did bow: is ways are ever-
lasting." Also, Malachi iv. 1, "
For, behold, the day com-
eth that shall bum as an oven; and all the proud, yea,
and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and the day
that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts,
that it shall leave them neitherroot nor branch." Matt.
12, "Whose fan is in his hand, and he will thor~
oughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat into the
garner;
but he will burn up the chad' with unquenchable
re." Matt. xiii. 30, "
Gather ye together first the tares,
and bind them in bundles to burn them ; but gather the
wheat into my barn." 40, "As therefore the tares are
gathered and bumt, so shall it be in the end of the
world." 49th verse, "So shall it be in the end of the
world: the angels shall come forth, and sever the wicked
from among the just." Again, Paul to the church of' the
Thessalonians writes, "And to you who are troubled,
rest with us; when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed
from heaven with his mighty angels, in flaming fire, tak-
ing vengeance on them that know not God, and that
obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ; who shall
be punished with everlasting destruction fiom the pres
BB Llcrnan r. _
ence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power."
2 Peter iii. 10, "
But the day of the Lord will come as a.
thief in the night, in the which the heavens shall pal
away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt
with fervent heat; the earth also, and the works that are
therein, shall be burned up." Rev. xviii. 8, "
Therefore
shall her plagues come in one day-death, and mourn-
ing, and famine; and she shall be utterly bumed with tire;
for strong is the Lord God who
iudtgeth
her." These
passages are but a part of the wor o God which prove
the destruction of the wicked-of the anti-Christian
beast-and the cleansing of the world
by
fire. Yet if
Scripture proof can be suliicient, surely have brought
enough; and where that can have no
bearing
on the
mind of men, how vain should I be to searc the ar-
chives of natural philosophy to give you more evi-
dence! for He who hath all wisdom in heaven and in
earth, and who knows what is in the mind of man, hath
used the best arguments, the most persuasive means
(1
had like to have
saidzlin
the power of a God to use; and
indeed he says, "W at could I have done more than I
have done for my vineyard." He has taught us
by his
own word, by the mouth of his prophets, and by exam-
ples: witness his word on Mount Sinai, where the peo-
le heard his voice and saw the tire; witness all the dec-
liarutions of the pro hets which I have read; witnet
Jesus Christ himselg in the parable of the tures and
wheat, and the harvest; witness, also, the destruction of
the old world by water, and Sodom and Gomorrah b
tire; Jerusalem
by famine, sword, and Ere. These are all
set forth as samp es to wam us of the
approaching
judg-
ment. And yet who believes the report? VVho is wi -
ing to examine the evidences- to reason candidly and
to reflect seriously on these things? Who
among us
puts implicit conlidence in the word of God, especially
in that which is unfulfilled? Any may believe in so
much as has been accomplished; but where is the virtue
in such faith? Vhere is the blessedness of our hope
in the glorious appearing of Jwus Christ? If we are
"lookin for that blessed hope, and the glorious appear-
ingofthe great. Godaudour SaviorJesusChrist, we
4
l
caars'r's uconn concurs. 23
shall examine the word of God
lhithfullly;
we shall
compare scripture with scripture; we sh ltake notice
of the signs which Christ has given us of his coming.
That the day may not overtake us as a thief] we should
live with a
steady reference to thht day, and rejoice
more and more a we see
the-day approaching.
3d. I will now
give some of the evidences concerning
the glorious reign which must follow his coming. The
earth,~being cleansed by fire, will, like the phmnix, be
revived from its own ashes. The destruction of the
wicked, the end of- death, sin banished, it will lighten
the world of a loadof crime which has made it reel to
and fro like a drunkard; the internal fires 'will have
spent their force on all combustible matter, and have
gone out; volcanoes will cease; earthquakes, tornadoes,
and whirlwinds can no more be experienced or needed,
for the cause is gone; the earth or the heavens can
no more be shaken, "
that those ,things that cannot be
shaken may remain. Wherefore we
receiving a
king-
dom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby
we may serve God acceptably, with reverence and
gpdly
fear; for our God is a
consuming) tire," Heb. xii.
-29. Then, when this earth shall ecome
new,wl;H
being cleansed and purified, the New Jerusalem
'
"come down from God out of heaven,
prepared
as a
bride ulomed for her husband. And I eard a
great
voice out of heaven, saying, Behold, the tabernac e of
God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they
shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them
and he their God," Rev. xxi. 2,3. "And he carried
me
away in the spirit to a great and high mountain, and
showed me that great cit , the Holy Jerusalem, descend-
ing outof' heaven from (lcd, having the glory of God,"
10th verse. "And the city had no need of the sun,
neither of the moon, to shine in it, for the glory of God
did li hten it, and the Lamb is the light thereofl"
"
And? saw thi-ones and they that sat upon them, and
judgment was given unto them.; and I saw the souls of
them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus, and
for the word of God, and which had not
worshipped the
beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark
94 Lacuna I. ~
in their forehoads, or in their hands; and
thsielivsd
and reigned with Christ a thousand years; but rest
of the dead lived not again until the thousand years
were finished."
Much more evidence might be brought to prove the
personal reign of Jesus Christwith his people; but this
is enough to
prove the glorious and personal reign alter
the resurrection; but few dispute it. But, say some, do
you
not believe in a spiritual reign of a thotmand years
efore the r urrection? I answer, I believe in a reign
of grace, by the influence of the divine Spirit, for more
than 1800 years past; but when you speak of a thou-
sand years, I suppose you mean the same time that l
call the glorious rei n alter the resurrection of the
righteous, and before gre resurrection of the wicked. l
know of no spiritual
reiin,
mentioned in the word of
God, and especially of at duration. We argue that
there cannot be a reign of peace and glory until the
world is cleansed from all whzkedness, Satan is chained,
and righteousness till our world; nor until "
the glorious
appearing ofthe great God and our Savior Jesus Christ,"
even the anti~Chnstian beast will not he destroyed,
'Slac-
cording to the texts we have
already quoted,) until ey
are destroyed by "
the brightness o his appearing." All'
those
passarzes
which speak of this happy period of rest
to the peop e of God, or which in any manner allude to
it, describe it as being after the resurrection ot' the
saints, or after righteousness lills the earth, and after the
anti-Christian beast is destroyed. And even our text
more than implies that we shall not realize any great or
glorious results fiom our hope, or collectively in a
body
the church will not receive an
importnnt deliverance
until the "glorious appearing ofythe great God und our
Savior Jesus Christ. Is this true ? I say the passages
of Scripture already named tix it beyond a doubt.
And
anty
one who will examine the scripture for himself;
will fin that the second coming of Christ is the point
to which Jesus Christ, the prophets, and the apostles di-
rected
thcir disciples, as the termination of their trinls,
persecutions, and atllictions; and Jesus Christ says,
"
ln
the world yo shall have tribulstion." lay, I can find
l
cnaxs'r's sncoim colune. 25
nothing in the word of God to warrant me to believe
that we
ought to look for or expect a happier period
than we now enjoy, until he who has promised to come
shall come the second time without sin unto salvation,
and cleanse us, the world, and make all things new.
These
things
are abundantly proved in the unerring
word of Go And now, Christians, if these thin are
so, what manner of persons
oughtwe
to be in alfaholy
conversation and
godliness,
loo ing for and unto
the day of God, "
ookiri
for that blessed hope and the
lorious appearin of e great God and our Savior
lesus Christ"? #hen let our conversation be in heaven,
from whence we
expect
our Savior, and stir
up each
ot.her's pure minds
y
way of remembrance ot these
things ; for the time o the promise draweth nigh, when
he will come and receive us to himself; that we may be
with _him. How necessary, my brethren, we should
examine the word of God diligently; see if it does not~
give
some indications, some signs, by which we may
now the "Son of Man is near, even at the door," and
our "blessed hope"' is about to be realized in the
"glorious appearing of the
great
God and our Savior
the Lord Jesus Christ." If e comes and finds us, or
some of us, in this lukewarm state,
hardlyhaving looked
into his word, and, making om' want of ta ents an excuse,
have neglected to trim our lamps, and have been very
spare in holy conversation, and are
crying peace and
safety when sudden destruction cometh, and perhaps
have sneeringly mocked and laughingly .ridiculed the
idea of Christ being near at the door, and perhaps
have joined the intidel and unbeliever in their unholy
remarks on this subject, and although we have heard
the midnight cry,
"
Behold, the bridegroom cometh," yet
we treat it with neglect or disdain, or some of us, per-
haps, with reproach, -I ask, if the Lord of such servants
come and find us so doing, what will he do with us?
He will come in an hour that we think not, and cut us
od; and appoint our portion among
ahlypocrites
and un-
believers, where shall be weeping, w
'
ing, and gnashing
of teeth. But we will suppose that he will not come in
so short s time
as
your speaker believes; still what do I
28- Lzcrnu In
ask of you, my brethren? Nothing but what Jesus
Christ and the apostles required 1800 years ago. I ask
you to compare these views with the Bible. Is this
wrong? No. I ask you for holy conversation. Is
this wrong? No. I ask you for heavenly-mindedness.
Is this wrong? No, no. I ask you to stir up each
other's
'pure
minds, to make improvement on your one
talent i no more; to come out of this cold and lukewarm
state; to trim your lamps and be ready. Are these re-
quirements wrong? Certainly not; no, no. I ask you
again to compare scripture with
scxtureg
to read the
prophets; to stop your revilings; to e waming by the
old world; to flee from sin and the wrath which is to
come; to hide yourselves in Christ, until the indignation
be over and past; to look "
for that blessed hope and the
glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior
esus Christ." ls this wrong? Then be the wrong on
my head.
And now, my impenitent friends, what say you?
"
We
say,
'
You know
nothing about it.'" Do you believe the
old world was deluged.
"
Why, yes." What makes you
believe it? "Because our philosophers tell us there are
a great many signs remaining of the Hood, and we can
believe them." And are there no signs of the near
ap-
proach of the Judgment Day? What say the prophets,
apostles,
and Jesus Christ? Are they not equal to your
p ilosophers? Examine your Bibles, and see; weigh
well the evidence; your etemal
hapginess,
the salvation
of your immortal souls,
may
depen on your decision.
But what say you more? "
Ve say,
'
You were
very un-
wise to fix on the year 1843, or sooner, for this day to
come; for it will not come; and then you will be
ashamed." And I hope I may be able, by the
grace of
God, to repent. But what if it does come ? X ou can-
not with
any propriety say positively it will not come,
for you ma e no pretence to divination. But I say,
What if it does come? Vhere will you be? No space
then for repentance. No, no-too late, too late; the
harvest is over and past, the summer is gone, the door
is shut, and your soul is not saved. Therefore it can do
you no harm to hear, and believs,anddo thosethings
cnmsa-'s sxconn comno. 27
which God requires of you, and which
Emu
think you
would do, if you knew he would
agpear.
`rst, I ask you
to repent of your sins. Woul this be right? Yes.
Next, I ask you to believe in God. ls this right? Yes.
And I ask you to be reconciled to his vill, love his law,
forsake sin, love holiness, practise his prece ts, obey his
commands. Would these things be right? Yes, yes.
And last of all, and not lea.st,I ask you to "look for that
blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the at
God and our Savior Jesus Christ." Anum.
gn
LECTURE II.
REV. xx. 6.
Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection ; Q
such the second death hath no power; but they shall be priest:
of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.
Tm: term "blessed and holy" is often used in Scrip-
ture, and in many places is
applied
to man; but in no
place
without
(giving
some c aracteristic mark ot' his
eing bom of od, or inheriting the fruits of the divine
Spirit; and very often the word blessed is used
standins
in immediate connection with the resurrection an
coming of Christ, either expressed or implied, as in Isa.
lxii. ll, 12, "
Behold, the Lord hath proclaimed unto the
end of the world, Sa ye to the daughter of Zion, Behold.,
thy salvation cometh; behold, his reward is with him,
and his work before him. And
thelyoshall
call them The
holy people, The redeemed of the rd; and thou shalt
be called, Sought out,A city not forsaken." Isa. xxx.
18,
"
And therefore will the Lord wait, that he may be
ious unto you, and therefore will he be exalted, that
may have mercy upon you; for t.he Lord is a God of
judgment. Blessed are all they that wait for him." Dan-
iel says, xii. 12, "
Blessed is he that waiteth. and cometh 20
the 1335
days." John says, Rev. xiv. 13, "Blessed are
the dead which die in the Lord." "Write, Blessed are
they which are called to the marriage supper of the
Lamb." "
Behold, I come quickly; blessed IS he tha!
keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book."
"Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they
cams-r's sncoim comms. 29
may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in
through the gates into the city." By these passages 1
show
you
that all the children of God are included in
this b easing, and not the martyrs only, as some will
have it. The next thing which will claim our attention
will be to explain the resurrection spoken of in our
text, called the first resurrection. The word resurrection
signifies to revive, or resuscitate, or bring to life again,
one now dead, who was once alive. It nowhere in the
word of God conveys an idea of a new creation, and
the word is nowhere used in the Bible expressing an
thing less or more than a union of soul and body, and
deliverance from natural death. The word resurrection
is nowhere used in a.
figurative sense; it in all places
has its own simple meaning, unless our text is an ex-
ception. And without the objector can show some rule
of interpretation by which we shall be warranted to
understand the word in a different sense, we must bo
leave to attach to it the simple meaning, coming to li/g
from the grave. I know some have
supposed
that regen-
eration isresnrrection; but 1 cannot elieve this unless
they
show some rule. I know some pretend to show us,
in ohn v. 25, "
Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour
is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the
voice of the Son of God, and they~that hear shall live,'?
as a mle; but in order to make this a rule, they must
prove that Christ meant regeneration; until this is shown,
we cannot admit it as any proofl
We shall,
thereforeihponsider this
word
resxrrwtwrzlv
as cami up out of ave, an pass to e wo
_/irst. :The first resnrrectéirn." The resurrection of the
saints is first as it respects order and time. Wherever
the word resunection is used in connection with lm or
damnation, the one unto life always comes first; as in
Daniel xii. 2, "Some to everlasting life, and some to
shame and everlasting cont.empt;" John v. 29, "They
that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and
they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of
damnation." Here are two samples as it respects order.
One or two as it respects time: 1 Cor. xv. 23, "Christ
Iieiirst
frnihl,tl:3n'aitsrwsrd
thevthat are Christ'l si
tl) rm:-run n. .
his coming. Then cometh the end." And again,
1 Thess. iv. 16, "For the Lord himself shall descend
from heaven with a shout, with the voice of' the arch-
angel and the trump of God; and the dead in Christ
shall rise first." And then our context and text shows
that the blessed and holy hte raised a thousand years
before the rest of the dead. If we are correct, then,
Christ will come before the millennium instead of after-
wards, as some believe; and the millennium is a state of
personal, and glorious, and immortal reign on the new
earth, or this earth cleansed by fire, as it was once
by water; and it will be s new dispensation, new
heavens, and new earth. This will be our next propo-
sition to prove. And, first, we will examine the 20th
chapter of' Revelation, lst verse: "And I saw an
angel some down
irons heaven;"-this angel I consider
no less a being an the Lord Jesus Christ; for it only
can be said of' him;--"having the key qflhe bottomless
pit and a
Eneat
chain in his hand." See Rev. i. 18:
"l am he t at liveth and was dead; and behold, I am
alive for evermore, amen, and have the keys of' hell and
of' death." And Christ only has power to bind Satan.
"That he might destroy him that had the power of
death, that is, the devil," Heb. ii. 14. -2d verse: "And
he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the
dem1,andSatan, and bound him a thousand years." I
,suppose this verse needs no
explanation _It can only
be understood in a literal sense, for it explains itself in
the figures used; as
dragon and serpent, often used
as figures, are explained to mean the dem! and Satan.
If' the thousand years had been used, in this chapter,
or any where else in the word of' God, in a
mystical
or figurative sense, it would have been somewhere ex-
plained; but, as it is not, I consider we are to place
upon it the most simple construction, and I shall there-
fore understand it literally. 3d verse: "./Ind east him
into the bottomku
ifnlg"-by
bottomless pit, I have
shown, by the proo on our first. verse, that it is hell;
see Rev.i. 18;-"andshuthimupandut a seal
king that he should deceive the nations no more, ti; the
bull!! years should be flwled; mi q/ll' hd H Ill
enars'r's ssconn comms. 81
behasedalittle season." This passagemustbeunder-
stood in its simple, plain meaning; no mystery in this.
4th.verse: "And I saw thnmes,and
!ke%lsat anthem,
undjudgmentwas unto tl|e|n;"- ere we have
a prophecy of the fulfilment of a
promise that Christ
made to his disciples, in Matt. xix. 28: "And Jesus
said unto them, Verily, I say unto you, that ye which
have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son
of Man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also
shall sit
upon
twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes
oflsrael; -"and Isaw the souls qfthem that were
k
the un!nessqfJesus,nmdfor the word qi'
God, wh1§chhad1|etworslu}rpedil|ebea.s¢,ne17J|e1'l41lr
(mage, had received hh mark upon theirfarehends,
ormthesrlumds; andtlwylivedandrezgvwdwilh Chris!
a thousand years." In this description we have the
whole family of the redeemed; for all that had not
worshipped the beast or his Image, or received a
mark,
and, in one word, all that were not the servants of Satan
or sin, lived and rei d with Christ a thousand years.
5th verse: "But linens! of the dead lived mtugain
until thethousand years werejimlvhed. Tlulsisthejirst
resurrection." The reatqf the dead means the wicked
dead, who do not have part in the dist resurrection-
lioed not agai-n,'showing conclusively that it is a natural
life and death
sploken
otl The _frat ra-arrevtwhn is the
resurrection of e saints at his coming. Then comes
in our text, which has and will be explained in the
lecture. 7th verse: "And when the thousand years an
ezpired, Satan shall be leased out qfhis prison." We
may reasonably expect that, when Satan is let loose,
all the damned spirits are let loose with him; and it
has been strongly
imtplied they .were to live again in
the body, at the end o the thousand years. Sth verse:
"And shall out"-that is, Satan-"to deceive the
nations whicfoare in
the quartersq/' the earlh"_..
"ashes under the feeto the saints," as Malachi tells
us: "And ye shall tread down the wicked; for they
shall he ashes under the soles of your feet in the day
that I shall do this, saith the Lord of hosts "-"
Gag
sndMugog"-the srmiesofthewicksdthatwan
32 Lxcfuu Il-
slain at the commencing of the thousand years, rl
coming of Christ, at the
suppzer
of the great God, and
battle of Armageddon; see zekiel xxxviii., xxxix.-
"to gather them together to bm¥tle;"-this is their
design, but there is no battle, for God himself is with
his people to defend them; and he
destrnoiys
the wicked
host, "the number q/'whom is as the sa
q/'the sea;"
evidently including the whole number of the wicked:
for the hgure, sand of the sea, is never used, only to
express the whole class of the people named; as, the
children of Israel, the whole host of Jacob. 9th verse:
"And they wen! 'u on the breudlhqfthe earth;"-that
is, this army of 50g and Magog were raised up out
of the surface of the earth, that only being the breadth
of a
globular body ;-
"
and compassed the camp of the
saints about, and the beloved city ;"-plainly showing
that the New Jerusalem, the beloved city, is on the
earth during the thousand years, or how could this
wicked host encompass it about? they have not climbed
the celestial walls of heaven-no; for it says, "and
_fire came down from God outq/' heaven and devoured
them." This is the second death, represented under
the
figure
of fire coming down from God out of heaven;
not e contlagration of the world,-for that was in
the commencing of the thousand years, when Christ
came and cleansed the world from all the wicked, and
the works of wicked men,-but the justice of God,
under the figure of fire; "for our God is a
consuming
fire." Heb. xii. 29. 10th verse: "And the devil that
deceivedthemwaacantintothelakeqfjire and brimstone,
where the beast and aloe prophet are, and .shall be ton-
mmled day and n' forever and ever." In this verse,
the final condemnation of the wicked, soul and body,
is given; and the last that God has seen fit to reveal
conceming them to us is, that they are cast into ever-
lasting torment. In the next verse, John has another
vision of the same things which he had before told us,
only in a different point of view, or some circumstance
not before clearly described. ./Ind I saw always im-
plies
a new view, or mother vision. llth verse: "AID
new agnd miie &ro|e,ondla3nthdatosi,fh||
enars'r's szoorm comme. 83
:sheen _/hoe the heavens andearth _fled away; and there
was
noplaoejbundfor them." This is the same throne
that Daniel saw, vii. 9-14: "I beheld till the thrones
were cut down and the Ancient of days did sit, whose
t was white as snow, and the hair of his head
like the pure wool: his throne was like the iiery tiame,
and his wheels as burning tire." 12th verse: "Ann
IsawU|edead,small and great, stand before God;a1m
lheboektwereopened; andanotherbookwaaoperwd,
whichisthe bookoflw; and the dead wcrejudged out
of those th' which were written in the books, according
to their wotiiii" This is the same as Daniel saw, vii.
10: "A Bery stream issued and came forth from before
him; thousand thousands ministered unto him, and ten
thousand times ten thousand stood before him. The
judgment was set, and the books were opened." lt is
very evident that this is the be
`
ning of the judgment,
when Christ comes in the doug"of heaven, with power
and great glory, to raise and judge his saints, and to
reward every man as his work shall be. lst, because
it is when,the judgment first sets; 211, because the book
of life is there, and open; md,3d, because it was at
the time or before antichrist was destroyed; and no
one can believe that the untichristian beast can be on
the earth during or in the millennium. 13th verse:
'*.Hndtlaeseagn~veupthcdeadwbichfuenein12;am!
death and hell delivered up the deadwlubh were in them."
I conclude the apostle, after he had seen the righteous
dead raised, small and great, and stand before God,
and saw the book of life n to justify them, and saw
them
fjudged
and rewardddfhe then lides down to the
end o the thousand years, and beheld!the wicked dead
Eiven up by those elements and laces wherein 'they
ad been confined during the millennial period, to be
judged
in the hesh, every man
according to his works.
his only can reconcile some of those conflicting
passages (or seemingly so to us) eonceming the resur-
rection; and I cannot see
any impropriety in thus under-
standing these prophecies; for it is the common manner
of the prophets, a little here and a little there. In all
the descriptions of the resurrection of die righteous
84 Lzcrnu rr.
dead, they are represented as being gathered by the
angels of God, from the four winds of heaven, when the
seventh or last trump shall sound; and it is equally as
evident that their works are
brought
into judgment.
Althou h they may not be justified y their works, but
out of tie book of life, yet the apostle Paul says, speak-
ing of his brethren, "We must all stand before the
gudgment
seat of Christ." Rom. xiv. 10. And again,
Cor. v. 10, "For we must all stand before the judg-
ment seat of Christ; that every one may receive the
things done in his body, according to that he hath done,
whether it be good or bad." And, 1 Cor. iii. 13-15,
"Every man's work shall be made manifest; for the
day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by
fire; and the iire shall try every man's work, of what
sort it is. If any man's work abide which he hath
built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If any
man's work shall be bumed, he shall suffer loss: yet
he himself shall be saved, so as by tire." We see,
by
these texts, that the books of every man's works wi
be open, as well as the book of life, in the iirstresur-
rection; but, in the second resurrection, there is no
book of life open in that part. of the judgment, neither
are they
gathered by the angels of God; but the sea,
death, an hell, delivered u the dead which were in
them, and they were judged every man accordin to
their works; and Satan is the means of gathering lien;
around the beloved city, where they are
judged in the
Besh. By the na, death, and hell, I understand the asa,
grave, and place of punishment The sea and the
grave would give up the dissolved particles of the body,
and hell
(or Hades) would give up their departed
mm;
this would constitute the second resurrection.
"
were j d every num according to then-
worlu.""w'i`hey hadughrosen, in this life, to stand on their
works; the had refixsed to believe in a Mediator; they
had not fohowed his commands, neither had they pro
fessed his name before men, or suffered persecution
for the sake of his testimony. They had treated his
word with total neglect, or called his grace tyranny.
Thsyind Kid hs wuahud lllll|',ldb|ll'il'f
cxuus'r's szcoxm comme. 35
talent in the ee.rth.' The had placed their supreme
affections on the world, and made line gold their trust.
They had persecuted the children of God in this world,
and showed that they were the children of that wicked
one who slew his brodier. They had prostituted *heir
bodies to whoredom, and sacrificed to Bacchus and
Venus their first-fruits. They had professed damna-
ble heresies, and filled the world-with their delusive
schemes and sects. They had worshipped the creature,
and neglected prayer to the Creator. They had filled
the world with their lies and abominations, and gloried
in their shame. 14th verse: "And death and hell were
castinlothe lakeqfjire. Thicistheseoonddeathl' By
death :md heU I understand the body and spirit- 15th
verse: "And whosoever was not
'gland
written in the
Lamb's book of ZW, was cast into t lake q/'_/in." "
But
the fearful and unbelieving, and the abominable, and
murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idol-
aters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake
which bumeth with fire and brimstone, which is the
second death." Rev. xxi. 8. ~" Blessed are they that
do his commandments, that they
may
have right to the
tree of life, and may enter in throug the gates into the
city. For without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whore-
mongrs,
and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever
love and maketh a lie," Rev. xxii. 14, 15. Then our
text says, "Blessed and holy 1:3 he that hath part in the
_first re.mrrectzbn." This we have proved is the resur-
rection of the ri hteous dead, who died in. faith in
Jesus Christ, ang who should live with him at his
coming; on them the second death should ha e no
power, "but they shall be priests of God and of ,
and shall reign with him a tlwusan/I
yjeara."
To be priests unto God and unto hrist, is to be holy;
to be a kingdom of priests of a
(peculiar people, that
should show forth his praises by eclaring to the uni-
verse that out of nature's darkness they had been re-
deemed b his blood, called by his grmce unto his
glorious, happy, and holy kingdom, and that they
should dwell on the earth. See Rev. v. 9, 10. "And
they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take
$ nlcrvn ri.
thébook andto open the sealsthereof; for thou wat
slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood, out
of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation;
and hast made us unto our God kings and priests, and
we shall reign on the earth." See, also, Rev. i. 6, "And
hath made us kings and priests unto God, and his
Father." A in, 1 Pet. ii. 5, 9, "Ye also, as
lively
stones, are gilt up a spiritual house, a
holy priest-
hood." "But ye are a chosen
generation,
a
priesthood, a holy nation, a. pecuiar people." he
pessagesto which I have cited your minds, prove, be-
ond a reasonable doubt, that the thousand years spo-
hen of in the text is between the two resurrections ~
a
state of happiness, of glory, of holiness, and that it
shall be on the earth. It is a state of immortality, as
abundant scriptures evidently prove. Where, then, you
may inquire, is the spiritual millennium which our theo-
rists, in the present age, are teaching us to expect? l
answer, There is not a thousand years spoken of in
Scripture, except in 2 Pet., 3d cha ter, and in which the
judgment day is the subject of giscussion, and in the
chapter of which our text is a part; and in neither of
these places is any t.h` said about spiritual reign;
neither can we find anyuiiing in the word of God by
which we could fairly draw the conclusion of such a
reign; and as it is not proper for me to show the neg-
ative, I call on all of you to show where we
may find
the evidence, that is, all of you who believe in a
spiritual reign. If there is such a
reign, it must be
before the second coming of Christ; for when he comes,
he will receive us to himself, that where he is there _we
may be also; no more away from his
people, for he
says he will be with them, and make his abode with
them, and he will be their light, and will dwell with
them, and make his abode with them, and they shall
dwell on the earth. Where, when, or how the idea of
a
spiritual reign of a thousand years should or could
obtain
;vplace
in our faith, having the word of God
as our
dence, I cannot toll. Some sa that the
often of times or
things which have not
dmonrday,o|-underthepresent disponi-
cuars'r's sscorm comme. 37
tion, and which would be too gross to be admitted into
a state of immortality. There may be such-yet I
find no diliiculty in understanding all those passages
which have been presented, or come under my con-
sideration, to refer to the gospel da . But how long do
the prophets say that time shall be; Do they designate
any time? No; neither one, ten, one hundred, or one
thousand years are mentioned in any of those es.
Why r_hen call it a millennium? Because lgeter and
John have mentioned a thousand years. This cannot
be admitted to mean
any state this side of the state of
immortality; for Peter says plainly,
"
Yet, nevertheless,
we look for a new heaven and a new earth, wherein
dwelleth righteousness." This would be a new state,
surely
-
nothing'grosa or vile in this
kingdpm,
whoever
may e
kinti;
and John expressly says,
"
ey lived and
reigned wi Christ a thousand years," and says, "This
is the lirst resurrection." Now, admit there is such t
time,
how
or
by what rule shall we call it a. thousand
years. ,
Again, where, in all the prophecies, can any one show
me at the church will be blessed and holy, or happy
and righteous, as it may be rendered, until he come;
that is, at Christ's second appearance? And where il
the word are we to learn that the kingdom of this world
are to be
destroyed
before the coming of the Ancient of
days? Do we elieve that the ant.i~Christian beast, or
mystical Babylon, will be on the .earth during t.his mil-
'lennial reign? No, it cannot be; yet all must acknowl-
edge that she is only destroyed by the brightness of
his
coming. _
Who can read the 19th chapter of Rev-
elation, without being convinced that the marriage
sig-
per of the Lamb, the treading of the wine-press of e
fierceness and wrath of Almighty God, and the
supper
of the eat God, are events which must take pace
before tg; millennium ? And if so, who can believe that
after the marriave of the Lamb to the bride; after she
is arrayed in linen clean and white, which is the
righteousness of the saints; after they have received I.
crown of
righteousness,
which the righteous Judge shall
give to all
er:
who love his 'appearing in
that d.|y,-
38
i
moron rr.
Christ will not be with her in person? None. But
our text tells us he will live and reign with them, and
the shall be
priests to God.
Xgain: while in this state of mortality and trial, we
are called the servants and ministers of Christ; but
then, in the millennlal blessedness, we shall be called
priests of God and of Christ. You may ask, "Whythis
distinction in the language?" I answer, There is a
great difference between the kingdom of Christ, as it
was established when Christ was here on earth, and the
kin dom
,given ulpto
God, eventhe Father. The subjects
of éhrists king om, in this state of
thing, may be, and
in fact are, imperfect. Hypocrites and se professors
mai
and do obtain an entrance into it; for an enemy
ha sown tares. But the kingdom of God, no man,
says Christ, can see, or enter, without being born of
God. Here they may deceive the sentinels which
guard
the kingdom of Christ; but in the kingdom of
od "there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that
defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination or
maketh a lie; but they which are written in the Lamb's
book of life." Here the children of the
ki.nEdom
are
ecnted, tormented, perplexed, cast down; ut in the
mdom of God their enemies am all slain; they are
comforted, glorified,
Lustilied, exalted; and not a
dog to
move his tongue. ere they weep, but there will re-
joice: here they sin and repent;
they
there will be
holy
without fault before his throne. "B eased and holy is
hethsthathpsrtintheiirstremrrection." Anim.
LECTURE III.
.1l.
DANIEL vlll. ia, 14.
"Then I heard one saint speaking, and mother sunt said unto th!
certain saint which spake, How long shall be the vision concern-
ing the daily sacriiice, and the transgression of desolation, to
ive
both the sanctuary and the host to be trodden under foot!
d he said unto me,'Unto two thousand three hundred days:
then shall the sanctuary be cleansed ;
"
or justified, as it mrght
have been translated.
Taz bearer will, at the first view ofour text, perceive
that there is something very important communicated in
the question and answer
given; or why are saints com-
missioned (as we
ma; reasonably suppose) from the
courts of heaven, to as and answer the question con-
tained in the text, in presence of the prophet? And
that it concerned Daniel, and us for whom the prophet
wrote his prophecy, to understand, is evident from the an-
swer
being)given to Daniel-" and he said unto me"-
instead of eing given to the "
saint," who made the in-
quirg.
Then we are not treading on forbidden
ground;
my ear hearer, to search to understand the meamng an
truth of our subject.
I shall then treat our subject in the following manner:
I. Explain some of the figures and expressions used
in the text.
II. Show what the "
daily saerince vision" is, and,
III. The time or
length of the vision "
unto two thou-
sand three hundred days: then shall the sanctuary be
cleansed."
L Iamtoexplainsomeofthe figures nsedintha
text; and,
40 LECTURE ur.
lst, the "daily
sacrlyioe."
This may be understood,
by some, to mean the ewish rites and ceremonies; and
by others, the Pagan rites and sacrifices. As both Jews
and Pagans had their rites and sacrifices both
morning
and evening,and their altars were kept smoking wit
their victims of beasts, and their
holy
lire was
preserved
in their national altars and temples evoted to their sev-
eral deities or
gods,
we
might be at a loss to know which
of these to app y this figurative expression to, did not our
text and context explain the meaning. It is very evi-
dent, when we carefully examine our text, that it is to
be understood as referrin to Pagan and Papal rites, for
it stands coupled with "ie abomination of desolation,"
and performs the same acts, such as are ascribed to the
Papal abomination, "to give both the sanctuary and
host to be trodden under foot." See, also, Rev. xi. 2,
"But the court which is without the temple leave out,
and measure it not; for it is given unto the Gentiles;
and the holy
city
shall they tread under foot forty and
two months." his last text only has reference to the
Papal beast, which was the image ofthe Pagan; but the
text in consideration has reference to both Pagan and
Papal.
That is, How long shall the Pagan transgression
an the Papal transgression tread under foot the sanc-
tuaryandhost? This mustbethe true andliteral mean-
ing of our text; it could not mean the anti-Christian
abomination alone, for they never desolated the Jewish
church; neither could it mean Antiochus, the Syrian
king; for he and his kingdom were made desolate and
destroyed before Christ; and it is evident that Christ
had an allusion to this very power, when he told his
disciples, Matt. xxiv. 15, "When ye therefore shall see
the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the
prophet, stand in the holy place." I believe all com-
mentators
zigree
that Christ meant the Roman power-
if so, then aniel has the same
meaningr;
for this is the
verylpassage
to which Christ alluded. hen the "
daily
lacn ce" means Pagan rites and sacrifices, and the
transgression of desolation, the Papal; and both together
shall tread under foot the "sutctu and host," which
bringsmeto showwhat maybe uliidentood by"sanc-
»
cna|s'r's sscoim comma. 41
tuary and host." By sanctuary, we must understand the
temple at Jerusalem, and those who worship therein,
which was trodden under foot h the Pagan kingdoms
of the world, since the days otyDaniel, the writer of
our text; then hy the Chaldeans; afterwards b the
Medes and Persians; next b the Grecians; and lastly
by
the Romans, who destroyer?the city and sanctuary, lev-
e led the temple with the ound, and caused the plough
to pass over the place. qfhe people of the Jews, too,
were led into
captivity
and persecuted by all these king-
doms successive y, and finally by the Romans were ta-
ken away and destroyed as a nation. And as the proph-
et Isaiah, lxiii. 18, says, "The people of thy holiness
have possessed it but a little while: our adversaries have
trodden down thy sanctuary." Jeremiah, also, in Lam.
i. 10, "
The adversary hath spread out his hand upon all
her pleasant things; for she hath seen that the heathen
entered into her sanctuary, whom thou didst command that
they should not enter into thy congregationg" The word
host is applied to the people who
worship
in the outer
court, and iitly represents the Christian c ureh, who are
said to be strangers and pilgrims on the earth, having no
continuing places, but lookmg for a city whose builder
and maker is God. Jeremiah, speaking of the gospel
church, says, iii. 19, "But I said, How shall I put thee
among the children, and give thee a pleasant land, a
goodl heritage of the host of nations ? "
evidently mean-
ing the church from the Gentiles. "Then shall the
sanctuary be cleansed or justified," means the true sanc-
tuary which God has built
oflivelistones
to his own ac-
ceptance, through Christ, of whic the temple at Jeru-
salem was but a
type, the shadows having long since
lied away, and that temple and people now destroyed,
and all included in unbeliefl So whosoever looks for
the worldly sanctuary to be built again, will End them-
selves as much mistaken as the imbelieving Jews were,
when they looked for a temporal prince in the Messiah.
For there is not a word in the prophets or apostles, after
Zerubbabel built the second temple, that a third one
would ever be built; except the one which cometh down
from heaven,
wlaicih
is a
spiritual one. and which, is the
42
'
m:c'runz nl.
mother of us
al1,1&J'ew
and Gentile,) and which is tree _
and when that ew Jerusalem is perfected, then shall
we be cleansed and justified; for Paul says to the
Phillippians, iii. 20, 21, "For our conversation is in
heaven; from whence also we look for the Savior, the
Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our vile body, that
it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, accord-
ing to the
working whereby he is able to subdue all
things to himself; that is, "they that are his at his
coming." We see by these texts-and many more
might be quoted-that the spiritual sanctuary will not
be cleansed until Cbrist's second coming; and then
allhlsrael
shall be raised, judged, and justified in his
si t.
il. We shall now try to understand what i meant by
the "
minbn," in the text.
The virion., spoken of in the text, alludes to three
separate times m which God revealed unto Daniel all
that may be considered a prophecy in the book of Dan-
iel, which vision was
explained to Daniel by a heavenly
messenger, called Gabriel, at three separate times, the
last of which closes the book of Daniel; which last
instruction will be the subject of a future lecture.
Daniel's first vision was the dream which Nebuchad-
nezzar had, and which troubled him; but when he
awoke, the dream was one from him. He then called
for the magicians,
astrologesrs,sorcerers, and wise men
of Chaldea, to show him
`
dream, and the inte reta-
tion thereof; but they could not. The kingfheing
angay,
commanded that all the wise men of Bah lon
sho dbe destroyed. Then Arioch, the captain ofythe
kinighi guard, went forth to execute the king's decree;
an among the rest he sought for Daniel and his three
friends,
young
captive Jews, to execute the pu e of
king Ne nchadnezzar
:gon
them also. Danielllhzr, for
the iirsttime, being ni e acquainted with the decree,
went in unto the king, and desired time, and promised
that he would make known the dream, and the interpre-
tation tbereotl Time being granted, he and his three
Hebrew friends held a
prayer-meeting, (not a cold and
formal one, as we may reasonably supposq) for their
cnms'r's sscorm comme 48
lives and the lives of their fellow-creatures were in
danger. They cried for mercies from the God of heaven.
God heard and answered their prayers, and revealed to
Daniel the dream and inte retation. After
rendering
suitable thanksgiving, Danidl)went in unto the king an
told the dream and visions of the king.
"
As for thee, 0
king, thy thoughts came into thy mind upon thy bed,
what should come to pass hereafter; and he that reveal-
cth secrets maketh known to thee what should come to
pass; but as for me, this secret is not revealed to me for
any wisdom that 1 have more than
any living,
but for
the intent that the interpretation
may"
e ma e know:
to the king, and that thou mightest ow the thoughts
of thy heart Thou, 0 king, sawest, and behold, a
great
image. This great image, whose brightness was ex-
cellent, stood before thee, and the form thereof was
terrible. This image's head was of fine old, his breast
and his arms of silver, his belly and his thighs of brass,
his legs of iron, his feet part of iron and part of clay.
Thou sawest till that a stone was cut out without hands,
which smote the ima e upon his feet that were of iron
and clay, and brake them to pieces. Then was the iron,
the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold, broken to
pieces
togpther,
and became like the chaff of the sum-
mer thres ing-floors, and the wind carried them away,
that no place was found for them; and the stone that
smote the ima e became a great mountain, and filled the
whole earth," Taniel ii. 29-35.
This was the dream, and the interpretation was clear
ss
given by Daniel; and the history of the world proves
it to be true, a
large share
hav1ng1already
been fulfilled.
All that remains to be accomplis ed is for the stone to
smite the image upon his feet, and to become a
great
mountain, and fill the whole earth. "
The head of gold
"
represented the Chaldean kingdom;
"
the breast and
arms of silver" represented the Medea and Persians;
"
the belly and
thighs of brass, which were to bear rule
over all the earth, the Grecian. Alexander, 11 Grecian
king, conquered the world ; the legs of iron, and the feet
part
of iron and part of clay," fitly represent the Roman
ingdom, which still exists, although in a broken statq
44 Lscruan m.
like iron and clay. This kingdom has been divided be-
tween Pagan Rome, the head wounded to death, and
Papal Rome, the
deadliy
wound healed, both "mixing
themselves with the see of men," that is, uniting church
and state, ecclesiastical and civil, in the govemment.
The stone denotes Christ, the God of heaven; and the
mountain the kingdom of God. His breaking the image
to pieces, shows that all the kingdoms of this world are
to be utterly
destroyed
and carried away, so that no
place can be found or them. And the
kingdom
of God
fillin the whole earth teaches us that the eloved city,
the glew Jerusalem, will fill the world, and God will
dwell with his people on the earth. Read Dan. ii. 37-
45. This dream was in the second yea.r of Nebuchad-
nezzar's reign, 603 B. C. Forty-eight years afterwards,
in the first year of' Belshazzsa-'s reign and 555 B. C.,
Daniel had another dream, yet the same in substance.
"
Daniel spake and said, I saw in my vision by night, and
behold, the four winds of heaven strove upon the gent
sea, and four rreat beasts came u from the sea, diverse
one from another. 'l'he First was like a lion, and had ea-
gles' wings ; I beheld till the wings thereof were plucked,
and it was lifted up from the earth, and made to stand
upon the feet as a man, and a man's heart was
given to
it. And behold, another beast, a second, like unto a
bear, and it raised up itself on one side, and it had three
ribs in the mouth of it between the teeth of it; and the
said thus unto it, Arise, devour much flesh. After thisl
beheld, a.nd lo, another like a leopard, which had upon
the buck of it four
wings of a fowl ; the beast had also
four heads, and dominion was
given to it. After this I
saw in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast,
dreadful, and terrible, and strong exceedingly, and it had
great iron teeth ; it devoured and brake in pieces, and
stamped the residue with the feet of it; and it was di-
verse from all the beasts that were before it, and it had
ten horns. I considered the horns, and behold, there
came up among them another little hom, beibrc whom
there were three of the first honis plucked up by the
roots; and behold, in this hom were
eyes like the eyes
of man, and a mouth speaking great things. [beheld
4
cmus'r's sncoirn comms. 45
till the thrones were cast down, and the Ancient of days
did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the hair
of his head like the pure wool; his throne was like the
fiery flame, and his wheels as burning fire. A fiery
stream issued and came forth from before him; thousand
thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times
ten thousand stood before him: the `udgment was
set,
and the books were opened I beheld, then, because o
the voice of the great words which the hom s ake. I
beheld, even till the beast was slain, and his lgody de-
stroyed und
given
to the burning flame. As conceming
the rest of t e beasts, they had their dominion taken
away, yet their lives were prolonged for a season and
time. I saw in the night visions, and behold, one like
the Son of Man came with the clouds of heaven, and
came to the Ancient of days, andvthey brought him near
before him. And there was
given him dominion and glo-
ri,
and a kingdom that all people, nations, and langu es
s ould serve him; his dominion is an everlastingaglo-
minion, which shall not pass
away,
and his kingdom
that which shall not be destroyed, Daniel vii. 1--14.
This ends Daniel's night vision,
except
the instruction
he received from some one standing y. "So he told
me, and made me know 'the truth of all th.is,' or the
interpretation
of the things.
Thesedgreat beasts, which
are our, are four kings which sh arise out of the
earthé
But
ghe
saints
def the
gnostfhigh
_shall
taflre
the
om,an ssess e om orever, even orever
xgever." Vg; see in tliibngnstruction that this vision
and Nebuchadnezzafs dream agree in the most prom-
inent parts; the four beasts representing the four king-
doms, and the saintspossessing the kingdom, the same
as the stone becoming a eat mountain and
filling the
whole earth; "forever anirever" shows us that it is an
immortal state in everlasting life; "the saints" evidentl
includes all saints, "for they shall live and reign with
him on the earth," Revelation v. 10, 20. iv. 6. "
Then,"
Daniel says, vii. 19, 20, "I would know the truth of the
fourth beast, which was diverse from all the others,
exceeding, dreadful, whose teeth were of iron, and his
nails of rass, which devoured, brake in pieces, and
¢6 nacruan rn.
stamped the residue with his feet; and of the ten horns
that were in his head, and of thc other which came up,
and before whom three fell, even of that horn that _had
eyes, and a mouth that spake very great things, wnose
look was more stout than his fellows."
In these verses we leam that the fourth beast would
be diverse from the others. This was true with Rome;
that kingdom first rose from a small colony of adven-
turers settled in Italy. Rome, also, had seven different
forms of government, while the others had but one.
We leam that this kingdom would devour, break in
pieces,
harass and perplex the people of God, whether
ew or Gentile; that it would be divided into ten king-
doms, and aherwards t.here would arise another' power
which would swallow up three of the ten kingdoms.
This was all true with the Roman goverment In A. D.
476, the Westem Empire fell, and was divided into ten
kingdoms by the Goths, Huns, and Vandals,-" France,
Britain,
Sgiin,
Portn l, Naples, Tuscany, Austria,
Lombardy, ome, and qllavemia. The three last were
absorbed in the territory of Rome," (E. Irwin,) and be-
came the States of the Church, governed by the
Papal
chair, the little horn that had eyes and a mouth at
spake very great things, whose look was more stout than
his fellows. This description cannot apply to any other
power but the church of Rome. "Had eyes," showin
that they made
,pretence at least to be the household
of faith; "eyes meaning faith, and "mouth that s ke
very great things," showing that the church would clrim
infallibility;
"
whose look would be more stout than his
fellows," showing that he would claim authority over all
other churches, or even the kings, the other homs. See
Rev. xvii. 18: "And the woman which thou sawest is
that
great city which reigneth over the kin of the
earth. That the little hom is a part. of tg; fourth
kingdom is evident, for it was to come up among the ten
horns which were upon the head of the beast; and there
cannot be a shadow of a doubt, even in Scripture itsclil
but that Rome is meant by this fourth beast; for wha
power but the Roman will answer the descri 'on here
and elsewhere given in Daniel? "I behelrlzuuid the
4
cnms~r's secortn comme. 47
same horn made war 'with the saints, and prevailed
against them, until the Ancient of da s came, and judg-
ment was
given to the saints of the lifost High; and the
time came that the saints possessed the kingdom."
Daniel vii. 21, 22. In these verses we are taught clearly
that anti-Christ will prevail over the church of Christ
until the first resurrection and the first judgment., when
the saints are raised and judged, which utterly destroys
the modem idea of a
temporal millennium, a thousand
years before the dead are raised and judged. This also
agrees with the whole tenor of Scripture; as, "judgment
must first begin at the house of God," and "whom he
shall destroy with the brightness of his coming;" when
the Ancient of days shall come in the clouds of heaven
with power and great glory, "to give reward to his ser-
vants, the prophets, and them that fear his name, small
and great, and destroy them who
destrog'
the earth,"
described next verse, 23. "Thus he sai , The fourth
beast shall be the fourth kingdom
urpon
earth, which
shall be diverse from all kin dems, an shall devour the
whole earth., and shall treagl it down and break it in
pieces. And the ten horns out of this kingdom are ten
kings that shall arise; and another shall arise after them,
and he shall be diverse from the first, and he shall sub~
due three kings. And he shall speak
great
words
against the Most
High,
and shall wear out e saints of
the Most High, and ink to change times and laws; and
they
shall be
given into his hand until a time and times,
an the dividing of time. But the judgment shall sit,
and they shall take away his dominion to consume and
to destroy it unto the end," 24-26. In these verses
we have the history of the fourth beast, or Roman power,
during 1260 years of the close of this kingdom, which 1
shall, in some future lecture, show is the meaning of
time, times, and a haltl We have also another clear de-
scription of the Papal
power:
"He shall speak great
words," &c.-the blasp emies against God, in the pre-
tensions of the Roman clergy to divine power, work-
i of miracles, canonizing departed votaries, changing
olidinances and laws of God's house, worshipping saints
and images, and performing rites and ceremonies too
48 Lncrnan m.
foolish and ridiculous to be for _a moment indulged in,
and which any unprejudiced mind cannot for a. moment
believe to be warranted by divine rule, or
example of
Christ or his apostles. And we are again brought down
to the time when the judgment shall sit: "
And the
kingdom, and the dominion, and the
greatness
of the
kingdom under the whole heaven, shal be given to the
people of' the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlast-
ing kingdom, [not temporal, as some
say,
or a thousand
years, but an immortal and etemal,) an all dominions
shall serve and obey him." It is very evident that this
verse brings us down to the time when the kingdom of
Christ will be com lete "in the eatness of the
king-
dom." Every word)in Scripture its a meaning, and IU
own proper meaning, unless used figuratively, and then
explained by Scripture itselfi "Hitherto is the end ot'
the matter. As for mc Daniel, my cogitutions much
troubled me, and my countenance changed in me; but I
kept the matter in
my
heart."
This ends Daniel s
night vision. Two years after-
wards, in the year 553 before Christ, Daniel vii., he had
another vision in the day-time, at the palace of' Shushan,
like the one which we have just described, and Nebu-
chsdnezzar's dream.
"Then I lifted up mine eyes and saw, and behold,
there stood before the river a ram which had two horns,
and the two horns were
high; but one was
higher than
the other, and the higher came up last. l saw the ram
pushing westward, and northward, and southward, so that
no beast might stand before him, neither was there any
that could deliver out of his hand; but hc did according
to his will, and became great." ln the 20th verse, the
angel Gabriel explains to Daniel what kingrlom was
rep-
resented by the "
rain with two horns," and says, "The
rain which thou sawest, having two horns, are the kings of
Media and Persia." Vc see by this that the Chaldean
kingdom is leil out, for the reason that that kingrlmn was
then crumbling to ruin, and the glory ofthe Bahylonish
kiiipgdoui had iiidcd; thercibre I1 -
nnw hegins his vision
with the Mode and Persian kiiwdoin, and that, too. when
at tho height of their power and°couquests. The higher
eaa|s'r's snconn course. 49
hom denoted the Persian line of kings, under and follow-
ing the reign of C rus, the Persian, son-in-law to Darius
the Mede. "Andv as I was
considerinfg, behold, a he-
goat came from the west, on the face o the whole earth,
and touched not the ground; and the goat had a notsf-
hle hom between his eyes." In the 21st verse the an-
gel says, "And the rough goatris the king of Grecia:
and the eat horn that is between his eyes is the first
king." ghis king was Alexander, that conquered the
Persians. He was not the first king of Macedonia, but
the first that had all Grecia under his control, and that
conquered the world. "And he came to the ram that
had two horns, which I had seen standing before the
river, and ran unto him in the fury of his power. And
I saw him come close unto the ram, and he was moved
with choler against him, and smote the ram, and brake
his two horns; and there was no power in the ram to
stand before him, but he cast him down to the
grounlrh
and stamped upon him, and there was none that cou
deliver the ram out of his hand. Therefore the he-goat
waxed very reat; and when he was
strong, the great
horn was brodren, and for it came up four notable ones,
towards the four winds of heaven." We have in these
verses a plain description of Alexander's life, conquests,
death, and division of his kingdom into four parts, to-
wards the four oints of heaven--Persia in the east, Syria
in the north, liracedon and Europe in the west, Egypt
and Africa in the south. And the angel, when he gives
Daniel instruction, says, 22d verse, "Now that be'
broken, whereas four stood up for it, four kingdoms sliiili
stand up out of the nation, but not in his power." Then
the vision seems to slide down to the little horn. "And
out of one of them (that is, out of Europe) carrie forth a lit-
tle hom, which waxed exceedi great, toward the south
and toward the east, and towarrifthe pleasant land. And
it waxed great even to the host of heaven; and it cast
down some of the host and of the stars to the ground,
and stamped upon them. Yea, he magnified himself
even to the prince ofthe host, and by him the daily sac-
rifice was taken away, and the place of his sanctuary
was cast down, and a host was given him against the
_
5
50 Lscruan rn.
daily sacrifice by reason of transgression, and it east
down the t.ruth to the ground, and it practised and pros-
pered." Two or three thin in t.he above description
clearly show that, by the H52 horn, in this passage, we
are to understand the Roman power, viz., Its conquering
to the south, and east, and pleasant lands, stam ing on
the host,
þÿmagni"g
himself against Christ, and destroy-
ing Jerusalem, e
place of his sanctuary, and his prac-
tising and prospering. All this description agrees with
the history of Rome, and cannot apply to Antiochus, as
some writers have supposed. But let us see what Ga-
briel says, 23: "
And in the latter time of their kingdom,
(that is, the four kingdoms,) when the transgressors are
come to the full, a
king of fierce countenance, and under-
standing dark sentences, shall stand up, and his power
shall be mighty, but not by his own power; and he shall
destroy wonderfully, and shall prosper and practise,
and shall destroy the mi hty and the holy people. And
through his policy, also, he shall cause craft to prosper in
his hand; and he shall magnify himself in his heart, and
by peace shall destroy many; he shall also stand up
against the Prince of princes; but he shall be broken
without hand. And the vision ofthe evening tin the first
year of Belshazzar, Daniel
vii.;
and the morning (in the
third year of Belshazzar, Danie viii.) which was told, is
true; wherefore shut thou up the vision, for it shall be
for many da s." How many days? Our text answers,
"
Unto two thousand three hundred days; then shall the
sanctnaiiy
be cleansed. And it came to pass, when I,
even I, aniel, had seen the vision, and sought for the
meaning, then, behold, there stood before me as the ap-
pearance ofa man. And I heard a man's voice between
the banks of Ulai, which called and said, Gabriel, make
this man to understand the vision. So he came near
where I stood, and when he came, I was afraid, and fell
upon my face; but he said unto me, Understand, O son
o man, for at the time of the end shall be the vision.
Now, as he was speaking with me, I was in a deep sleep
on my thee toward the ground; but he touched me, and
let me
upright. And he said, behold, Iwill make thee
know what shall be in the last end of the indignation;
for at the time appointed the end shall be."
A
Q
cams-r's sncozm comma. 51`
Then comes the instruction of Gabriel, which we have
before iven. _
III. gllue time or
length ofthe vision-the 2,300 days.
What must we understand by days? In the prophecy
of Daniel it is invariably to be reckoned years; for God
hath so ordered the prophets to reckon days. Numb.
xiv. 34, "
After the number of days in which ye searched
the land, even forty days, each day for a year, shall ou
bear your iniquities, even forty years." Ezek. iv. 5, 6, "Ihr
I have laid upon thee the
(years
of their iniquity, accord-
ing to the number of the ays, three hundred and ninety
days; so shalt thou bear the iniquity of the house of ls-
rael. And when thou hast accomplished them, lie again
on thy
right side, and thou shalt bear the iniquity of the
house of udah forty days; I have appointed thee each
day for
aéear."
In these passages we prove the com-
mand of od. We will also show that it was so called
in the days of Jacob, when he served for Rachel, Gen.
xxix. 27: "
Fulfil her week (seven da s) and we will give
thee this also, for the service which tliou shalt serve with
mckvet
other seven years."
othing now remains to make it certain that our vis~
ion is to be so understood, but to
prove
that Daniel has
followed this rule. This we wil do, if your patience
will hold out, and God permit.
Now turn your attention to the ninth chapter of Dan-
iel, and you will there leam that fifteen years after Dan~
iel had his last vision, and sixty-live years after Daniel
explained Nebuchadnezzar-'s dream, and 538
ivears
B. C.,
Daniel set his face unto the Lord God by supp ication and
pra er; and by confession of his own sins, and the sins
of are people of Israel, he sought God for mercy, mr him-
self and all Israel. And while he was speaking and
praying, as he tells us, Daniel ix. 21, "
Yea, while I was
speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel, whom I had
seen in the vrmon at the
beginning,
Daniel viii. 16, 17,
being caused to ily swiftly, touche me about the time
of the evening oblation. And he informed me and talked
with me, and said, 0 Daniel, 1 am now come forth to give
thee skill and understanding. At the beginnin of thy
supplication the commandment came forth, and I am
1
3 Lscmn nr.
come to show thee; for thou art greatly beloved; there-
fore understand the matter, and consider the vision.
Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people, and
upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression, and to
make an end of sms, and to make reconciliation for ini-
quity, and to bring in everlasting
réghteousness,
and to
seal up the vision and prophecy, an to anoint the Most
Holy. Know, therefore, and understand, that from the
going
forth of the commandment to restore and build
erusalem unto the Messiah, the Prince, shall be seven
weeks, and threescore and two weeks; the street shall
be built again, and the wall, even in troublous times.
And after threescore and two weeks shall Messiah be
cut oft; but not for himself; and the people of the Prince
that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanct ;
and the end thereof shall be with a Hood, and untilimlhe
end of the war desolations are determined. And he shall
conhrm the covenant with many for one week; and in
the midst of the week, (or last half; as it
might
have
been rendered,) he shall cause the sacrilice an the ob-
lation to cease, and for the overspreading of abomination,
he shall make it desolate, even until the comummation,
and that determined shall be poured upon the desolate."
What do we learn from the above passage? We
leam our duty in prayer, and God's goodness in an-
swering. We learn that the angel Gabriel was sent to
instruct Daniel, and make him understand the obion.
You may inquire what vision? I answer, The one Dan-
iel had in the beginning, for he has had no other. We
also learn that seventy weeks, which is 490 days, (or
years, as we shall show,)from the going forth of a certain
decree to build the streets and walls of Jerusalem in
tmublous times, to the crucifixion of the Messiah should
be accomplished. Ve also leam that this seventy
weeks is divided into three parts; seven weeks being
employed in building the streets and walls in troublous
times, which is forty-nine years,
sixg-two weeks, or
four hundred and thirty-four
gears
to e preaching of
John in the wildemess, whic two, t together, make
sixty-nina weeks, or four hundreclmand eighty-three
ysars,andonsweskthogulpelwasproached;John
I
F 4
cams-r's sacoim comma. 53
three and a half years, and Christ three and a half
years, which makes the seventy weeks, or four hundred
and
ninety years; which, when accomplished, would seal
up the vision, and make the prophec true. We also
learn that, after the crucifixion of Christ, the Romans
would come and destroy the city and sanctuary, and
that wars will not cease until the consummation or end
of the world. "All that may be true," says the objector;
"but where have you proved that the seventy weeks
were four hundred and ninety years?" I agnee I have
not yet proved it, but will now do it.
We shall again turn your attention to the Bible.
Look at Ezra vii. 11-13: "
Now this is the
coEy
of the
letter that the king, Artaxerxes,
pave
unto zra, the
priest, the scribe, a scribe of the aw of' God: perfect
peace, and at such a time. I make a decree that all they
of the people of' Israel, and of his priests and Levites
in my realm, which are minded of their own free will
to go up to Jerusalem, o with thee." This is the
decree given when the wais of Jerusalem were built in
troublous times. See, also, Neh. iv. 17-23. Ezra and
Nehemiah being contemporary, see Neh. viii. 1. The
decree to Ezra was given in the seventh year of Ar-
taxerxes' reign, Ezra vii. 7, and that to Nehemiah in the
twentieth year, Neh. ii. 1. Let any one examine the
chronology, as
given by Rollin or Josephus, from the
seventh year of Artaxerxes to the twenty-second year
of Tiberius Czesar, which was the year our Lord
was crucified, and he will find it was four hun-
dred and ninety years. The Bible
chronology says
that Ezra started to go up to Jerusalem on t e 12th
day of the first month, (see Ezra viii. 3l,) 457 years
before the birth of Christ; he being 33 when he died,
added to 457, will make 490 years. Three of the
evangelists tell us he was
betrayed two days before the
feast of the assover, and of course was the same da
crucified. 'Fha passover was
always kept on the 14th
day of the first month-forever, and Christ being crucified
two days before, would make it on the 12th day, 490
years from the time Ezra left the river Ahnva to go
unto Jerusalem.
5 '
-
54 nactoaa rn.
Ifthiscalculationis correct,-and I think no one
can doubt it, -then the seventy weeks was fulfilled to a
day when our Savior suffered on the cross. Is not the
seven?
weeks fairly proved to have been fulfilled by
years
Anddoea
notthisprove
thatourvisionmdthe
days ought to be so rec oned ? Yes, if these seventy
weeks areapartofthe mlnbn. Does nottheangelsay
plainly, I have come to show thee; therefore understand
the matter, and consider the vision? Yes. Well, what
can a man ask for more than plain positive testimony,
and a cloud of circumstances agreeing with it?
But one
thing still remains to be proved. When did
the 2300 years be 'n? Did it begin with Nebuchad-
nezzar's dream? go. For if it had, it must have been
fulfilled in the year A. D. 1697. Well, then, did it be-
gin
when the angel Gabriel came to instruct Daniel
to the 70 weeks? No, for if' then, it would have
been finished in the year A. D. 1762. Let us begin it
whore the angel bold us, from the going forth of the
decree to build the walls of Jerusalem in troublous
times, 457 years before Christ; take 457 from 2300, and
it will leave A. D. 1843; or take 70 weeks of' years,
being 490 years, from 2300 years, and it will leave 1810
afler Christ's death. Add his life, (because we
begin
to reckon our time at his birth,) which is 33 years, and
we come to the same A. D. 1843.
New let us examine our subject, and see what we
have leumed by it thus far. And,
I. We loam that there are two abominations spoken
of' by l)aniel. The first is the Pagan mode of' worship,
which was
performed by the sacrificing of beasts upon
altars, similar to thc Jewish rites, and by which means
the nations around Jerusalem drew away many of' the
Jews into idolatry, and brought down the heavy judg-
ments of' God upon idolatrous Israel; and God permit-
ted his people to be led into ca tivity, and persecuted by
the very nations that they, the Jews, had been so fond of
wpying after in their mode of worship. Therefore were
the sanctuary and place of worship at Jerusalem trod-
den down by Pagan worshippers; and the allure, erected
by the command of' God, and according to the pattern
cnms'r's SICDND comme. 56
and form which God had prescribed, were broken down,
and more fashionable altars of the heathen erected in
their room. Thus were the commands of God diso-
beyed, his laws perverted, his people enslaved, the
sanctuary trodden down, and the temple polluted, until
at last God took away the Jewish rites and ceremonies,
instituted new fomis, new laws, and set up the gospel
kir&gdom
in the world.
'
his, for a season, was kept pure from the
worldly
sanctuaries and policy of Satan. But Satan, an arc
enemy, found his P abominations could have but
little or no efect tougranw the followers of Christ into
idolatry for they believed the bloody rites and sac-
riiices ima their thlfilment in christ Therefoye, in
order to carry the war into the Christian camp, he suffers
the daily sacrifice abomination to be taken out of the
way, and sets up
Pxzpacy,
which is more congenial to
the Christian mode o
worship
in its outside forms and
ceremonies, but
retaining
al the hateful qualities of
the former. He persua es them to erect
images
to
some or all of the dear apostles; and even to hrist,
and Mary, the "Mother of God." He then flatters them
that the church is infallible. (Here was a
strong
cord
by which he could punish all disputers.) He 1° ewise
gives them the keys of heaven, (or Peter, as
they
call
it) This will secure all authority. He then cothes
them with wer to make laws, and to
dispense
with
those whicli0God had made. This capped e climax.
In this he would fasten many thousands who might
protest against
some of his more vile abominations;
yet
abit an custom might secure them to a
willing o e-
dience to his laws, and to a total neglect of the laws of
God. This was Satan's masterpiece; and, as Daniel says,
"
he would think to chan e times and laws, and they should
be given into his hand Ear a time, times, and a half; but
they shall take away his dominion to consume and de-
stroy it unto the end." Therefore, when this last abom-
ination of desolation shall be taken away, then shall the
sanctuary be cleansed.
'
II. We learn that the vision which Daniel saw was
revealed at three separate times--lst. In Nebuchad-
56 nscrual ru.
neazar's dream, which carried us down through four
reat kingdoms, until they should all be swept away
Hire the chad' of the summer
threshing-floor
before the
wind, and no place found for them, an the gloriom and
everlasting kingdom of Christ till the whole ea.rth. The
next vision Daniel saw was similar to this; he saw four
great beasts, representin four great kingdoms, as before;
and he saw the fourth geast to be diverse from all the
others, dreadful and terrible, and exceedingly strong;
he had
great
iron teeth, and nails of brass, which de-
voured, rake in pieces, and stamped the people of God
and the whole earth under foot. This beast contained
the two abominations which we have before spoken of;
the lust, under the figure of alittle hom, he saw until all
these thrones were cast down, till the little hom was
destro ed, and his body given to the bu
'
dame.
Danieiisaw until the Ancient of days did sit. #lhe Son
of Man came in the clouds of heaven, and came to the
Ancient of days. He saw thousand thousands minis-
tering unto him, and ten thousand times ten thousand
stood before him; the
judgment
was set, and the books
were opened. He saw the ominion, and glory, and king-
dom given to the Son of Man, and to the people of the
saints of the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlast-
ing kingdom In the third vision, which Daniel has
coupled with the former, by saying that it was after
apr
like) the one which appeared unto him at the first, e
saw the three last kingdoms; gave a particular description
of' the two first, even naming them-the Medea and
Persians, and the Grecian. He then gives a short
account of the little hom, (having given a more general
view of the fourth kingdom in the other vision,) how he
would cast down the host of heaven, and the stars, and
stamp upon them; also that he would magnify himself
against the Prince of the host, Jesus Christ, and cast
down the place of his sanctuary, and practise and
prosper, but shall be broken without hands, showing
that the stone cut out without hand should break him to
pieces. Daniel, then, in the 26th verse, couples the
two visions, the one in the evening, 7th chapter, und
the one in the moming, 8th chapter, and says, "The
4
cna1s'r's ssconn comme. 57
vision of the evening and morning, whichwas told, is
true.
III. We learn that this vision is two thousand three
hundred
days long; that days are to be reckoned years
-lst, By e command of God; 2d, By the example of
Jacob; and 3d, By the fulfilment of the seventy weeks
of this vision, at the crucifixion of the Messiah. We
learn by the instruction of Gabriel that the seventy
weeks were a part of the vision, and that Daniel was
commanded to begin the seventy weeks at the in
forth of the decree, to build the streets and wall: o§
Jerusalem in troublous times; that this decree, given to
Ezra, was
exactly 490 years, to a
day, before the cruci-
Exion of Christ; and that there is no account, by Bible
or
any historian, that there was ever
any other decree
tobulld the streets or walls of Jerusalem. We think
the proof is strong, that the visvbn of Daniel begins 457
years before Christ; lake which from 2300, leaves 1843,-
agar Christ, when
th;
must be
iinisihed. Bug
the
o jector may say,
"
e' a our vision oes not e
`
with the seventy weeks.'?s Tier me ask two or ting
questions. Does not the angel say to Daniel, ix.23,
"
Therefore understand the matter, and consider the vis-
ion "
? "Yes." Does not the angel then go on and ive
his instruction concerning the seventy weeks? "
þÿY¬=:s."
Do you believe the Bible is true ? "
We do." Then if
the Bible is true, Daniel's 70 weeks are a part of the
mHon, and 490 years were accomplished when the
Mesiah was cut off, and not for himselfl Then 1810
years
afterwards the vinbn is completed; and we now
ive about 1803 years after; of course it must have
begun within seven years of that date. But it is very
reasonable to suppose it began with the seventy weeks;
for the angel said it would establish the mlvion, that is,
make it sure; for if the'70 weeks were exactly fulfilled
at the death of Christ, then would the remainder be in
1810 years after, which would be fullled A. D. 1843,
as we have before shown.
And now, my dear hearer, are you prepared for this
great and important event? Are you ready for the
yudgment to set, and the books to be opened? Letthis
58 r.|c'rrrn nr.
subject sink deep into your hearts; let it follow you to
your bed-chambers, to your fields, or your
shlgps.
Not
one jot or tittle of the word of God shall f
'
If he
has spoken, it will come, however inconsistent it may
look to us. Be admonished, then, and see to it that you
are
repared. Com e the vimkm with the history of
the lzinvdom. and wllzl-'e can you find a. failure? Not
one. fhen, surely, here is evidence strong that the re-
mainder will be accomplished in its time, and that time
but seven years. Think, sinner, how good God is to
give you notice, and prove it a thousand fold. Remem-
er the old world; they thought Noah was a, maniac;
but the Hood came, and they were reserved in chains
of darkness unto the judgment of the great day. Re-
member the cities of the plain. Lot was unto them
like one that mocked; but the same day God rained Ere
and brimstone upon them, and they are
sufering the
vengeance of etemal iire. Be warned, then; dy to the
uk, Christ Jesus, before the door is shut; esca. to the
mountain of the house of the Lord before 3; Lord
shall rye
ngnto
the prey, and you be driven away in
your wicke ess. Amen.
'
LECTURE IV.
-
`
DANIEL lx. 24.
Seven! weeks are determined u n th o e and u n th
holy lcity, to finish the transg1e$on, ayiullioplmhke an pcgmd og
sins, and to make reconciliation for
inkgluity,
and to bring in
everlasting righteousness, and to seal up e vision and prophe-
cy, and to anoint the Most Holy.
Orm text is one of the many found in the word of
God, which prove the authenticity of the Scriptures,
gives us a powerful
weapgp against Judaizing teachers,
and meets the infidel on
`
own ground--the history of
the world.
It sets a seal to prophecy that it is true, and shows
that the prophets were inspired.
It gives incontestable evidence
aggnst
the Jew, and
proves that Jesus of' Nazareth was true Messiah.
It unlocks the wonderful vision of Daniel's four king-
doms; also the vision of the ram, the he-goat, and the
little hom.
It brings to view the great blessings of the sacrifice
of Jesus Christ, reveals the exact time of its accom-
plishment, and shows the source of the
gospel, pro-
claiming good news to lost man, even in anticipation of
that important era when the Gentiles should be fellow-
heirs \Vlf.ll the Jews in faith. _
It establishes the wavering, and gives hope and con-
fidence to the tried and tempted child of God, that he
will fulfil all his promises, according to the letter and
spirit of his word.
This text furnished Simeon, Anna, Nathaniel, and
60 nmcruna rv.
others, with a strong faith that they should see the con
solation of Israel.
By this text the high priest convinced the council
of the necessity of putting to death Jesus. "
Then
gathered the chief priests and Pharisees a council,
and said, What do we? for this man doth
many mira-
cles. If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on
him; and the Romans will come, and take away both
our place and nation."
"
And one of them, named Caiuphas, being high priest
that same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all,
nor consider that it is expedient for us that one
man_
should die ibr the peo le, and that the whole nation per-
ish not. And this spahe he not of himself; (not his own
pro hecy ;) but, being high priest that year, he prophe-
sied) (from Daniel's sevent weeks; for there is not
another prophecy in the Old Testament which shows
what year Christ should suffer) that Jesus should die
for that nation; and not for that nation only, but that,
also, he should gather together in one the children of
God, that were scattered abroad," John xi. 47-53.
The high priest argues that Jesus must die for the
peo le.
'IPhe seventy weeks shows that the Messiah must be
cut oh' at the close of the last week, and not for himselil
Also Peter had occasion to say in his epistle," Of which
salvation the prophets have inquired and searched dili-
gently, who prophesied of the grace that should come
unto you, searching what, or what manner of time, the
spirit oi' Christ, which was in them, did signify, when it
testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ and the
glory that should follow," 1 Peter i. 10, ll.
Where was the exact time of Christ's sufferings
pro hesied of but in Daniel's seventy weeks? Again,
to this Christ alludes when he says,
"
My time is not et
fully come ;" and, "Then they sou ht to take him, hut
no man laid hands on him, becausediis hour was not ct
come:" that is, the seventy weeks were not yet Xil-
filled, John vii. 8, 30. Mark tells us, xiv. 41, "The
hour is come; behold, the Son of Man is betrayed
into the hands of sinners."
csnrs'r's ssc on comme. 6|
The seventy weeks were now bein fiilfilled. And
then, at last, when Jesus had com leteg his work, when
the tiilness of time had come, he finished transgression,
and made an end of sin: he then cried, "lt is iinished,
and gave up the ghost." The seventy weeks ended, our
text was lirlfilled; Christ had now become the end of
the law for righteousness, to every one that believeth;
he that knew no sin had become sin for us, and Death
had struck his last blow that he would ever be able to
give the Son of God. Daniel's vision is now made
sure -
the Messiah cut od; the time proved true, as
given
by the prophet Daniel.
Now, ye infidels, can this be priestcratt? And, ye
Judaizing teachers, isnot this the Christ? Why look
ye for another P
I shall now take up the text in the following manner :
I. I shall show what is to be done in seventy weeks.
l1I.d
When the seventy weeks began, and when they
en e .
I. The text tells us,
"Sevmlgy
weeks are determined
gponthypeogzle
and upon thy hay 011|/;" that is, upon
e Jews, w o then were the people of Daniel, and also
in Jerusalem, which then was called the "holy city."
The first question which would naturally arise on the
mind, would be, What for to do ? The text and its con-
text must tell us.
lst. "
To_fimhh the transgression." When was trans-
gression
finished? I answer, At the death of Christ.
ee Heb. ix. 15, "And for this cause he isthe Mediator
of the new testament, that
by means of death, for the
redemption of the transgressions that were under the
first testament, they which are called
might
receive the
promise of eternal inheritance." Isaiah iii. 8, "For he
was cut od' out of the land of the
living; for the trans-
gression of my people was he stricken.
2d. "
./1nd to make an end qf sim." This was also
performed at his death. See Heb. ix. 26, "
But now
once in the end of the world hath he appeared, to put
away sin by the sacrifice of himseltl" And 1 John iii.
5, "Ye know that he (Christ) was manifested to take
away our
sins."6
»
62 nscruu xv.
3d. "Jimi to make
1'CO01lC'ai(lt'i07|»?f01' iniquily." Was
this also rfonned at his death Yea. See Col. i.
20, "
And having made eace through the blood of his
cross, by him to reconciye all things to himseltl" . Heb.
ii. 17, "
Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be
made like unto his brethren; that he might be a. mer-
ciful and fnithtixl high priest in things
tEerta.iningtoG0d,
to make reconciliation tor the sins of e
people."
4th, "
./1nd to bring in everlasting righteousness."
"This must be by Christ's obedience," says the objector,
"
and cannot be at his death." Not so fast, dear sir; let us
hear the testimony. Romans v. 21, "That as sin hath
reigned unto death, even so
might grace reign through
righteousness unto etemal li e, hy Jesus Christ our
Lord." And, "
By the obedience of one shall many bs
made righteous." Again, see Phil. ii. 8, "And being
found in fashion as a. man, he humbled himself and be-
came obedient, unto death, even the death ofthe cross."
Paul says, "I do not frustrate the grace of God; for if
righteousness came by the law, then Christ is dead in
vain;" evidently showing, that by Christ's obedience
unto death, he brought in
everlastini righteousness.
5th. "
To seal up Nw mHon an
prophecy." Vhat
does "to seal up" mean? I answer, It means to make
sure, certain, unalterable. Consult Esther iii. 12, viii.
8. Solomon says, "Set me as u .seal upon thine heart,
as a seal upon thine urm;" that is, make me surf in
thy love, and cerlnfn by thy power. John says, "He
that hath received his testimony hath set to his seal that
God is true." John iii. 33. Paul to Rome, xv. 28,
"
Vhcn I hnve pertimned this, and aenlefl to them this
fruit;" thnt is, made sure the contributions. `Again,
to Timothy, 2 Epistle, ii. 19, "
Nevorthelcas, the founda-
tion of God stundeth sure, having this seal, 'l'hc Lord
knoweth them that are his." Theretbre the death of
Christ would make Daniel's vision sure; lbr if a part of
the vision should be exactly fulfilled, as to tuuo and
manner, then the remainder of the viniou would be ac-
cmuplinlwul in manner and time, as
literally as the
seventy weeks had been. '
(Sth. "And anoint the Moat Holy." The Most Holy,
cmus'r's sncoim comme. 68
in this passage, must mean Christ; for no human being
can, or ought to claim this appellation, save him whom
God hath anointed to be a Savior in Ismel, and a
King
in Zion. See Acts x. 38, "How God anointed Jesus
of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with wer."
Also, Acts iv. 27, "
For of a truth against thy holwchild
Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod and' Pon-
tius Pilate, with the Gentiles, and the people of Israel,
were gathered together, for to do whatsoever
thy
hand and
thrly
counsel determined before to be done.
Heb. i. 9, "
herefore God, even thy God, hath anointed
thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows."
It will next be requisite to inquire, When was Christ
anointed P _
I answer, When the Holy Ghost descended upon him,
and when he was endued with power from on high to
work miracles. See Isa. lxi. 1, "The Spirit of the Lord
God is upon me; because the Lord hath anointed me to
Breach good tidings unto the meek: he hath sent me to
ind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to the
captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are
bound."
After Christ was
batptized by John, and after being
tempted of the devil orty days in the wildemess, he
went in the spirit into Galilee, and on the Sabbath day
he went into the synagogue, as his custom was, and he
stood up to read. They gave him the book of Isaiah.
When he opened the book he found the passage which
I have just quoted. After reading it he shut up the
book and sat down. He then began to say unto them,
"
This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears," Luke
iv. 1-21. This
passaéiiplainly proves that Christ was
anointed on or before
`
day. <
_Other things were to be done in the seventy weeks,
such as, The cutting of of the Messiah, but not for
himselfl This can mean nothing less than the cruci-
fixion of Christ. See Luke xxiv. 26, 46, "Ought not
Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into
his glory P "
"Thus it is written, and thus it behooved
Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third
diy."
Rom. v. 6, "
For when we were without strength, in ue
M LICTUBI IV-
time
ser according to the time of seventy weeks) Christ
died or us."
"And he (M inh) shall coniirm the covenant with
many for one week." What covenant is this to be con-
tirmed? I answer, It cannot be the Jewish covenant,
for that was conirmed by Moses many hundred years
before Daniel lived. There being but two covenants,
it must of necessity be the new covenant of which
Christ is the Mediator; Moses having been the media-
tor of the old, and Christ afterwards of the new. If
these things are so, and the gospel covenant is meant
by Daniel, then the time the gospel was preached by
John and Christ is here called a week; for Christ him-
self
preachedhmgze tgian sevgsen days. Chrigakept
overswi e ews a r e
begin ministry
me oefore he nailed the ceremonial w to his cms:
This is strong evidence that a week is seven years, and
that Daniel's 70 weeks are to be understood as
meaning
490 years.
'
_
Again, "In the midstof theweek he should cause
the sacrifice and oblation to cease," or, as all Hebrew
scholars agree, "In the last half of the week," &c is
the more proper translation; and it is evidentthat
translation would harmonize with the other pans of the
passage,
"
the sacriice and oblation to cease."
What sscrilice and offering is this, which the Messiah
was to cause to cease? I answer, It must of coursebe
that one oifering and sacrifice for sin of which all other
oierings and sacrincea were but types. It could not
he the Jewish sacrifices and oferings, for two good
reasons.
lst. This is but one sacri6ce, and the Jews had many.
It does not say sacrifices; therefore it cannot mean
Jewish sacrifices, nor
offerings.
2d reason. The Jewish sacrihces and offerings did not
cease in, nor even very nigh, the last half of the week
in which the Messiah continued the covenant with many;
and,_even to the present day, they make oblations, if not
sacrifices. It must mean that sacrifice and ablation
whxzh the Messiah was to make to God for sin, once for
all. ltmustmsan thstsacriiicewhichistheantetype
4
cmus'r'| sxcoim comma. 65
of all the
lggal
sacrifices from the days of Abel to the
days of the essiah. Let us hear what Paul says,Heb.
vii. 27, "
Who needeth not daily, as those high riests,
to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and their for
the people's; for this he did once when he offered up
himselil"
See also Heb. x. 11, 12. "And every riest standeth
daily ministering, and offering oftentimes tie same sacri-
fices, which can never take away sins; but this man,
after he had offered one sacrifice for sins, forever sat
down on the right hand of God." Many more passages
might be brought to show that all sacrifices and obla-
tions which could take away sin, or in which God the
Father could be well pleased, ceased in þÿChris ¬'s
one
sacrifice and oblation. But I have
given enough to sat-
isfy every candid, unprejudiced min ; therefore I shall,
I. Try to prove when the seventy weeks begin, and
when they ended.
The angel Gabriel tells Daniel, ix. 25, "
Know, there-
fore, and understand, that, from the oing forth of the
commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem, unto
the Messiah, the Prince, shall be seven weeks, and three-
score and two weeks; the street shall be built again,
and the wall, even in troublous times."
In this passage we have a plain declaration when the
seventy weeks began: "from the going forth of the
commandment." But what commandment? we may
inquire. I answer, A command that will finally restore
the Jews from their ca tivity under which they then
were held in bondage; also to prepare the way for them
to rebuild their city, repeople the same, and raise up
the decayed walls, settle the sheets, and cleanse the
city of Jerusalem; and these things would be done in
troublons times. So much is expressed or implied in
the declaration of Gabriel, which I have just quoted.
Who would give the command? is the next question.
I answer, It must be a king who had power over the
Jews to release and restore them. It must of necessity
be a king over the Medes and Persians, or it would not
be in agreement with the vision in the Sth cha ter of
Daniel; for he
irgzxpressly
told by Gabriel that the ram
Q r.|:c'rua| rv.
he saw, and which was the first
thingphe did see in the
vision, were the kings of Media and ersla. now
this same angel Gabriel has come the second time, and
tells Daniel, plainly and distinctly, that he come to
make him "
understand the vision." Wha.t vision? The
one Daniel had in the beginning, in the 8th chapter.
See Daniel ix. 21-23.
Then Gabriel begins his instructions by giving him
seventy weeks of the vision, and then shows him, verse
21, when his seventy weeks begin; or, which is the
same thing, "
the mls-ion." To read and understand the
matter thus far, infidelity itself must blush to deny the
premises.
Then, if we have settled this
iluestion,
the next quea
tion would be, Which king of ersia, and what com-
mandment? l answer, It must be the fifth king of Persia
noted in the Scripture of truth; for the angel Gabriel,
the third time he visited Daniel to give him skill and
understanding into "the vision," says, "But I will chow
thee that which is noted in the scnpmre of truth," Dan.
x. 21. This shows that he was instructing Daniel into
a vision which he before had seen, and written in the
Scriptures. See Dan. vii. l, "
Then he wrote the
dream, and told the sum of the matters." Dan. x. 14,
"
Now I a.m come to make thee understand what shall
befall thy
'people
in the latter days; for yet the mhion is
for many
aye."
What vision? The one noted in the
Scripture o truth, says Gabriel. Then, in Dan. xi. 2,
he begins his instruction to him of the miion, which he
was commanded by the voice between the banks of Ulai
to make him understand, b saying, "
And now will l
show thee the truth. Behold, there shall stand up vet
three kings in Persia; and the fourth shall be far ncher
than they all." This fourth king was the ram pushing,
and was the fifth king of Persia, being the fourth from
Cyrus, who was then standing up. See Dan. x. 1.
The kings, as Ezra has named them in his 4th chap-
ter and 7th chapter, were, lst., Cyrus; 2d, Ahasuenis;
Bd, Artaxerxes,
'Stho first;) 4th, Darius; 5th, Artaxerxes
(Longimanus
;g
mis last being the king who gave a com-
mandment to
'
torestnro all the captive Jews who
were anllmgtogotolemsalem. _
'
oaars'r's slconn comms W
What commandment? is our next question to answsa
The decree given
by (inns (see Ezra i. l-ll) cannot
be the decree meant y e angel, ibr the hut following
reasons:-
lst. Cyruswastheiirst
'
ofPersia,andofcourse
cannot be the fifth king, askxlghave already shown.
Qdneason. The decree of Cyrus was two years be~
fore the angel gave his last instruction to Daniel, and
he would not have spoken of it as
being fixture, if it had
already passed: "
There shall yet stan up three kings,"
c.
Sdreason. Cyrus's decree was not given to build
Jerusalem, but "
the house ofGod which was at Jerusa-
lem ;" neither were the walls built in truublous times,
under the decree by
Ctyrus.
4threason. This ecree byCyrus was
Qven
515
years before the birth of Christ, or 569 years efbre his
death. Therefore no mles of interpretation given in
the Scriptures could possibly show how those things
were accomplished in seventy weeks, whiclf Gabnel
has shown, in our text and context, were determined to
be done. This, then, cannot be the commandment, and
harmonize with either Bible or facts.
Again: the decree 'ven by Darius, Ezravi. 1-14,
cannot be the commandhment to which the angel alluded,
for the same reasons we have shown thatCyrus's decree
could not be the one; for this was only a renewal ofthe
former, and this decree was issued % years before
Christ's death.
'
The next decree or command of any ldng of Persia
we find in the seventh year of Artaxerxes (Longimaf
nus.) See Ezra vii. 6-28. In this decree we iind the
last command of any king of Persia be restore the cap-
tive Jews. We learn that, in this decree, the king fur~
nished them with money and means to beautify and
adorn the temple which had been built by Da.rius's ordu
a number oi' years before. We find that the
Ezra rv. 21, in which the Jews were commanded not hr
build Jerusalem, is now removed by its own
limihtion,
"
until another commandment be given ii-om me." Thi
decree, therefore, tookolfthis command. We learnby
68 -Lzcruu: rv.
Ezra's prayer, ix. 9, that Ezra understood that the decree
to which we allude did give them the privilege of build-
ing, in Judah and Jerusalem, the wall which had been
broken down. After Ezra had been
hligh priest and
governor in Jerusalem thirteen years, ehemiah was
permitted to go up to assist Ezra in building Jerusalem
and repairin the walls; which was done in troublous
times, under §'Iehemiah's administration, which lasted in
all 39 years. See Nehemiah, 4th to the 7th chapter
Ezra and Nehemiah, both of them having served as gov-
emors 49 years.
Here, then, we iind the fulfilment of what the
angel
told Daniel would be done under the command at
would begin the
seventy
weeks, and which is the same
thing-" the vMon." his decree was given 457 years
before Christ: the seventy weeks began, and if they
ended at the death of Christ, which we have proved did
end them, then the seventy weeks ended after Christ 33
years, making, in all, 490 years, which is 70 weeks of
ears.
y
But it is evident that Gabriel has divided the seventy
weeks into three parts, and I think clearly explains the
use of this division.
"
Shall be seven weeks, and threescore and two
weeks." Then, as if
you should inquire, What is seven
weeks for? he explains,
"
'l`he street shall he built
a 'n, and the wall, even in troublous times." Ezraand
hfgieniiah were 49 years, or seven weeks of years, per-
formin these very things, which ended betbre Christ
408. §ee
larie
edition of
Poly?-lot
Bible. What is
sixty-two wee s for? The ange has already told us,
"Unto the Messiah, the Prince;" that is, to the time
Christ was anointed to preach, the meaning of Messiah.
Sixty-two weeks are 434 days; or weeks of years would
be 434 years, which, beginning where the seven weeks
ended, 408, would end 26 years after Christ, the
year
John be n to preach as forerunner of Christ. 'lhen
"
he slialfiizonfirm the covenant with man for one week,"
making in all the seventy weeks. 'IYhus the seven
weeks ended with the administration of Nehemiah, B.
C. 4(B. Then the sixty-two weeks ended when John
'cnn1s'r's srcoim course. Q
began to
preach
the gospel, A. D. %; and the one
week was uliilled in A. D. 33, when Christ offered him-
self upon the cross, as an olfering and sacrifice for sin;
"by which offering we are sanctified once for all." For
he need not offer himself oflen, as the high priest did,
under the law. "
But now, once in the end ofthe world,
hath he
apgeared
to put away sin by the sacrifice of him-
se1£" He . ix. 26, Therefore, "he shall cause the sac-
rifice and ablation to cease." That is the only and last
secrilice and oblation that will be ever offered in our
world, which can take away sin; "for there remaineth,",
says the apostle,
"
no more sacrifice for sin." Then let
me inquire, What is the sum ofthe instruction ofthe an-
fel
to Daniel? I will sum it up in as few words as
can.
°
Alter Daniel had s. certain vision, commonl called
"
the vision of the ram, the he-goat, and the litfi horn,"
Daniel heard one saint inquire of another, how
lon?
thai
vision should be. The answer was given Danie , that
it should be unto 2300 da s, when the sanctuary should be
cleansed or justilied. then heard a man's voice
between the banks of Ulai, which called and said, Ga-
briel, make this man to understand the vision. Accord-
ingly, Gabriel came to Daniel, and informed him that at
the end of the world, or time appointed of God, the vis-
ion should be fulfilled. He then tells him that the ram
represented the Mode and Persian
kinggom;
and that
the rough goat resented the Grecian 'ngdom';
s. short history xdlpthst kingdom, and its four divisions;
then shows, at the close of these kingdoms, that mother
king would arise, (meaning the kingdom of the little
horn, or Roman,) describing him
exscilyas
Moses had
described the Romans many centuries b re. See Deu-
teronomy xxviii. 49, 50. "The Lord shall bring a. na-
tion agamst thee from far, from the end of the earth, u
swift as the eagle llieth; a nation whose tongue thou
shalt not understand; anation of fierce countenance."
This, no person will dispute, means the Romans. Then
why not a similar description in Daniel, viii. 23 ? "When
the transgressors (meaning the Jews) are come to the
fall, s king of fierce countenance, and understanding
70 nncrnxn rv.
dark sentences, shall stand up, and his power shall be
mighty, but not by his own power; and he shall destro
wonderliilly, and shall prosper and practise, and shall
destroy the mighty and the holy people."
Ithink the reader, divested of prejudice, cannot ap-
ply the description given in the above quotation toany
other nation but the Romans. "
And through his policy,
he shall cause_ craft to prosper in his hand." This de-
scription agrees with Paul' s man of sin, the
mystery
of
iniquity which worked in his day, and which woul be
destroyed by the brightness of Christ's coming. See 2
Thess. ii. 3-S. "So that he, as God, sitteth in the
temple of God, showing himself that he is God." Ga-
briel says, "And he shall magnify himself in his bean,
and by peace shall destroy many; he shall also stand up
against the Prince of princes;" that is, against God;
the very same character which Paul has described. "
But
he shall be broken without hand," that is, "by the b
`
ht-
ness of his (Christ's) coming," as says Paul. But asriin-
iel has said, "
By the stone cut out of the mountain with-
out hand ;" or, as he says, Daniel vii. 21, 22, "I beheld,
and the same horn made war with the saints, and pre-
vailed over them, until the Ancient of days came, and
judgment was given to the saints ofthe Most High; and
the time came that the saints possessed the kingdom."
After Gabriel had instructed Daniel thus far, he left
him. Sixteen years afterwards, Gabriel came
again to
Daniel, and informed him that he had come to instruct
him, and give him skill and understandin into the vis-
ion, of which we have been speaking. §e then gives
him the
seventy weeks, shows what would be accom-
plished in that time, the cutting oil' of the Messiah, and
the
ceasing
of the sacrifice and oblation. He men-
tions the estmction of Jerusalem, and the war of the
little horn; the desolation of the people of God, and
overspreading of abominations. He carries us to the
consummation, destruction of the little horn, called hero
the desolator. See marginal reading. Gabriel, after
givin#
the history of the seventy weeks, dwells not in
etailaon the remainder ofthe vision, but reserves :more
detailed account for the next visigwhich is given unto
cnnrs'r's slcorm counts. 71
us in the 10th to the 12th chapter of Daniel inclu-
sive.
But the seventy weeks, of which we are more partic-
ularly speaking, the angel Gabriel has told us when
it began: at the going forth of the commandment to re-
store and build Jerusalem, &.c. We have found no com-
mand that will apply in all its bearings, but the one given
to Ezra, which was given in the 457th year before the
birth of Christ; and 33 years afterwards Christ was cru-
cified; which two numbers, if added, make 490 years,
exactly seventy weeks of years. We leam that Gabriel,
in order to make the vision doubly sure, divides the
seventy weeks into three parts, seven, sixty-two, and
one, making in all seventy. He then tells us plainly
what would be accomplished in each part se
tely.
`
lst. Seven weeks. "The street shall be bbivlt again,
and the wall, even in troublous times." No man can
dispute but that this was accomplished under the ad-
ministration of Ezra and Nehemiah. And it is very
evident that these two were governors over Jerusalem
49 years, which makes the seven weeks of years, and
carries us down the stream of time to the year
408 B. C.
2d. Sixty-two weeks. "Unto the Messiah, the
Prince;" that is, unto the time that Jesus was
anointed with the Holy Spirit and power to preach
the gospel, either in himself or forerunner John. See
Mark i. 1. Sixty-two weeks of years would be 434
years. This would carry us down to twenty-six years
after Christ's birth, and
brin? _us to the very year of
"the beginning of the gospe of Jesus Christ, the son
of God." Mark i. 1.
3d. One week. "He shall confirm the covenant with
many for one week." 0ne week would, of course, be
seven years, which, added to twenty-six, would make
thirty-three years after Christ. Here, too, we lind an
exnct and literal accom lishment of the angel's declara-
tion. The gospel of Jyesus Christ preached by John
three and a. half' years, and by Christ three and a half
ears, making seyen years, called one week, and then
hiessinh cut off, and not for himself, Christ crucified,
12 mcfou rv.
»
endstheseventyweeks,proves Daniel's prophecytrne,
establishes the vision, confounds the Jew, coniirtes the
infidel, and ought toestablish the mind of every he-
liever in the remainder of the vision.
Here, then, is a combination of facts and circum-
stances, together with dates and times, which throws
upon the mind such strong array of testimony, that it
would seem no rational being could withstand the proof
And methinks I hear some say,
Wh!
all this argument?
No one but a Jew ever disputed, ut that the seventy
weekswerefiiliilled at thedeathofChrist,and that a
day
in this
propilrecy
was aiigure of a year.
slaould noth
ave been thus particular, and have tres-
passe somuc onyour time toproveagiven
'
t in
Christendom, had 1 not recently met with more txt.:one
Christian professor, and even teachers in Zion, who deny
that the seventy weeks ended with the death of Christ,
or that a day in this
prophecy
means a year. Some have
gone so far in intide i as to deny that "
Most Holy," in
our text, and "Messidh" in our context, means Christ.
This surely would make a Jew blush. I agree that l
never anticipated that any
obfection could be raised on
those points, without a wilfu perversion of language,
and a total
disregprd
of the word of God.
But man, in is fallen state, is an unaccountable,
strange
being;
if his favorite notions are crossed, he
rrvill, tio
avoi
bconclusions, deny even his own senses.
ere ore it ecomes necessary for me to prove, what
has been considered by many, even of the objecmro
themselves in previous time, given points in theology.
It is
not more than four yea.rs,since many of the
clergy and D.D.'s in the city of New York met. a dele-
5;tion
of the Jewish patriarchs ti-om the East, and in
ir conference the clergy and doctors brought forward
the seventy weeks in Daniel, as proof positive of Jesus
3tleNazarst.h being the
true
Messiah.
T§1ey explained
seve weeks in e samemanner havetoyou,
and askeldtythe Jews how they could avoid the conclu-
lion? and I lmderstood
they
could t no answer.
Now, suppose these same c
ergy andgeD.D.'s should
qisetme onthe question now
pending; Ishnuldnotbo
CH`lI8'l',S stooitn comme. B
atly disappoinwd if they should deny my pnmises;
515Vhy would they do thus ?" say you. I answer, For the
same reason thatthe lawyer hesitated, when he learned
that it was his bull that
35:1
the t`armer's ox.
"
But might we not un turd the seventy weeksto be
so man 1it:eral~weeks, that is, 490 common days?" say
yon. lyanswer, If so, then the command to build Jeru-
salem must have been given only a year and a third
before Christ's death; and it would have been very
improper tor Gabriel to have said, "
Unto the Messiah
the Prince, shall be seven weeks, and threescore and
two weeks," when he had already come, and had been
geachinig
more than two years before the weeks began.
o, my riends; every reasonable controversialist must
acknowledge there is no possible
wg
to et rid of
our conclusion but to deny that ost iloly, and
Messiah, means Christ, in our text and context. And
I pity, and leave the man in the hands of him who
knows all hearts, that is forced on to ground so un-
tenable as this.
If I have get a
right understanding of the seventy
weeks, that a day stands ibr a year,- and I have never
been able to find a Christian expositor who disagrees
with me on this point, either modern or ancient,-then
the conclusion is, as far as I can see, unavoidable, that
the vision of Daniel is 2300 years long, and that the
490 yearn before Christ's death is not only the key to
unlock the commencing of the vision, but shows con-
clusivel how and when, and manner and time, the king-
doms ofythis world will be broken to pieces and canied
away, and no place found for them, by the stone which
will become a
great mountain and fill the whole earth.
For the seventy weeks must seal up the vision and
make the
prophecty
of Daniel true. Then, if 2300 days
is the
len`;th
of e vision, and 490
days
of that vision
were fulii led in 490 years ending wi Christ's death,
so must 1810 days end the vision, which, upon precisely
the same rule," will be fulfilled in 1810 years after
Christ's death, or in 1843 after his birth, which is the
sarhe thing.
But, say
surge,
"
Daniel did not understand the vision
74 LIGTUII IV.
norend." Thanthea.ngelGabrielwas notobedient to
the heavenly command; for he was commanded to make
Daniel "understand the vision," and the vision and end
are connected by the angel himselfl He says, "At the
time of the end shall be the vision."
`
Again: if Daniel did not understand, the
ang;
must
have been disappointed; for the angel says,
"
old, I
will make thee know what shall be in the last end ofthe
indignation; for at the time appointed, (2300 da.ys,) the
end shall be."
Again: if Daniel did not understand the vision and
time, then his own words cannot be taken as evidence.
"A thing was revealed unto Daniel, and the was
true, but the time appointed (2300 days) was
ang."
This shows that Daniel understood the time; for he says
it was long. For no msn would have called 2300 com-
mon days (not quite seven years) a long time for so
many great and important events, as are noticed in the
vision, to transpire in. "And he understood the
stihat is,
the time,) and had understanding ofthe vision.
anie x. 1.
Now, let the objector quarrel with Gabriel and Daniel
if he
tgleases.
I have their
testimonty,
and shall give
them e
preference. Some say, "Go has not revealed
the time. I ask, then, Who revealed this vision to
Daniel? By whose command was the amwer given,
2300 days? Who revealed the
seventy weeks, the
"
time, times, and a ha1f"? How came aniel by his
1230 and 1335 days? Who said to Daniel, "
But go
thou thy way till the endb¢,forthoushaltrestand stand
in thy lot atthe md of the days"? Read Daniel ii. 20,
23, and 28th verses, and let the objector lay his hands
upon his mouth and be silent. Has man become so bold
in sin that he will contradict angels, defame the proph-
ets, deny the word of God, that we may cry peace
and
safety,
when sudden destruction cometh? "But
if ye wi not hear Moses and the
prophets, neither
would you though one rose from the dead. Peter says,
"
There shall be scoifers in the last day, saying, Where
is the_ promise of his coming?" God has not revealed
thehsuofthaouwsay youstbsnfhroitwillbono
e|nxs'r's slcoxn cormwe.. 75
-harm for you to "
say in your hearts, My Lord delayeth
ais co
'
J' ,
Who sgall tell the friend of the bridegroom when
to give the midnight cry,
"
Behold, the bridegroom
cometh "
? For this must be before he comes -
no time
,then to c ; for it will be as sudden as the lightning,
says the ldyear Savior.
Let the objectors look to it, that they do not reject the
council of God against themselves.
"But ye, brethre are not in darkness, (ignorant of
the revelation of Gola) that that day shall overtake you
as s. thiefl" ./lam.
'
LEGTURE _v.
KEY. -xiii. 18.
Hereisvisdear. Lethim \lil|lll\.lll&Il@»illg¢01|»&KllF
berofhebeas;l'oriti|tbenumbere1'amen; andhiannmber
isixhundnedthmeeseoreandaix.
Taxa text has caused as much
IECCULRUOI
as
any
text in the whole Bible; rivers of i have been shed
to explain its meaning, brains have been addled in
trying to ind some great
mysteg
which the wisdom of
this world, as was supposed, oo d only discover; and in
tryin to be wise above what was written, men have
lost their balance, and fell into absurditiestoo ridiculous
to mention. Some have searched through all the vo-
cabulary of Greek mmes, to had one whose nmnerical
letters would make the number 666, and they have been
wonderfully blest, for
thai
found a number; but here
again there remained a
`liiculty to mrmounf, which
required as much
ingenuitl
as the former; but to
remedy the evil, every Gree scholar chose the one his
fancy dictated, wrote his book on the number 666, and
then died, and his wonderful name died with him; for
every wise Greek had his own favorite name. Also, the
Latin book-worms, not
wishing
to be outdone by their
Greek brethren, rummeged al the old goatskin parch-
ments and musty books in the eloisters of all the monks
in Christendom; and behold, a much greater harvest was
the fruit of their labor; for now
every Latina had three
ermorenameetohis share; and in all this wisdom,al|
other nations were lelt without any wisdom, except
cnnu'r's sncosn course. 77
what they borrowed from their neighbors, the learned
Greeks and Latins. But I hope, my dear bearers, that
you have learned that if there is an mystery of God not
explained by the Bible, it is not ihr us to understand.
Therefore, in
treating upon this subject, I shall en-
deavor to present the Scripture on the point, and then
leave you to `udge whether we have light or not.
I. Show wjhat wisdom this is spoken of in the text.
b
II. Speak of the beast- numbered, and show what
east.
III. The number, and what we may understand by it.
I. The wisdom spoken of in the text.
lst. Is it the wisdom of mel, or of this world P I
answer, No. For Paul says, 1Cor.ii. 4,13, "And my
speech and my preaching was not with enticing words
ofman's wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and
of power; that your faith should not stand in the wisdom
of man, but in the power of God. Howbeit we speak
wisdom among them that are perfect; et not the wie#
dom of this world, nor of the princes oiythis world, that
come to nought. But we speak the wisdom of God in a.
mystery, even the hidden wisdom which God ordained
before the world unto our
glory." Now, if Paul would
not preach the wisdom' of men or the world, surely the
angel would not instruct John to use the wisdom ot'
man or of this world, "for the wisdom of this world is
foolishness with God," 1 Cor. iii. 19. And if Paul said
our faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, neither
would John have given any thing that depended on the
wisdom of men for a foundation of our fiiith. But Paul
has taught us what true wisdom is, by saying,
"
Christ,
the power of God, and the wisdom of God;
"
But
hath revealed them unto us byhis Spirit, for the Spirit
searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God." And
Paul tells us how we may exercise this wisdom, 1 Cor.
ii. 13, "Which things also we speak, not in the words
which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the
Holy Ghost
teacheth; comparing spiritual things with spiritual."
Here, then, my dear hearer, is the
tireat
secret of wis-
dom, to compare spiritual things wi spiritual; and then
we
have~the7mind
and will of the Spirit, and shall not be
O
UB .
-
msc-lruss vs _
'very liable to err. Let us, then, follow while
we try to explain.
Il. The beast numbered in the text. And,
lst. Let us inquire what beast it is. I answer, It is
the first beast. See our context, 12th verse,
"
And he
-exerciseth all the power of thejlnt beast -before him;"
that is, the beast which John saw come up out of the
sea, (the Roman govemment,) having seven heads and
.ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his
head the name of blasphemy ; and the beast which I saw
was like untoa leopard, and his feet :rave as the feet
ofa bear, and his mouthasthemouth ofalion;andthe
dragon gave him _his power, and his seat, and great
authority." By this beast, I understand the same as
Daniel's fourth kingdom, the Roman government; by
" names of blasphemy," I understand a mode of worship
which would be idolatrous or blasphemous; by the
dragon, we must understand the civil power ofthe same
govemment giving its power to the ecclesiastical beast,
whether Pagan or Papal. 3d verse, "And I saw one
of his
headskgoi' blasphemy, Pagan) as it were, wounded
to death; a his
deadlil
wound was healed, (by the
substitution ofthe Papal asphemous head ;) and allthe
world wondered afaer the beast."
John then goes on to describe the civil power of this
Roman
government
under this last head and draws the
length o time they would exercise this last power-" fon-
ty-two months" -
which is the same as Daniel's time,
limes, and a halt, or John's 1260 days, mentioned Rev.
xi. 3, xii.6. His power to make war and overcome the
saints is foretold In the tenth verse he shows us how
this civil power should be destroyed, hy captivity and
the sword; and this was fulfilled in 17%, when the
was carried a captive into France, and the states of Ig;
were conquered by the sword of the French army. In
the llth verse he gives ns a discovery ofthe same beast
in his ecclesiastical
tmwer; Pagan Rome in the first
beast, and Papacy in image boast; and it will heevi-
dent to any one who will examine the chapter carefully,
that John was not comnmnded to number the image
beast--for the civil power of that beast was hefors
CHlIl'l',8 slcolm course. '79
numbered in the 5th verse,- but the beast which existed
before him, which the Papal ecclesiastical beast is an
image of, or Daniel's daily sacrifice abomination, (Dan,
xii. l,) the one which Paul said, "he who now letteth
will let, until he be taken out of the way."
In this
passagle
it is evident the apostle alludes to the
same power, al ough he calls it the "
working of Satan."
John also gives a similar description in_ Rev. xii. 9,
°'
And the dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called
the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world:
he was cast out into the earth, and his an els were cast
out with him." Butl have another evigence that the
beast numbered was
Pagan Rome, and I think it must
be conclusive testimony, in Rev. xvii. 3. In this chapter
one ofthe seven
angels that had the seven vials came to
instruct John, and to show him "the judgment of the
great whore with whom the kin ofthe earth had com-
mitted fornication, and the inhagitants of the earth have
been made drunk with the wine of her fornication."
"So he carried me
away in the spirit into the wilder-
ness, and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet-colored beast,
full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten
homs."
`
Here the same idolatrous beast, having seven heads
and ten horns, is described; the woman
sittini upon
this beast is the same as Daniel's little hom whic came
up among the' ten horns, and shows plainly that it was
that part of Roman power which was prior to the woman,
and was of course called the _first beast. When John
saw this woman on the scarlet-colored beast, he wondered
with _great admiration, and says, Rev. xvii.7, "
And the
an l said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I
wilietell thee the mystery ofthe woman and of the beast
that carrieth her, which hath the seven heads and ten
horns. The beast that thou sawest was, and is not; and
shall ascend out of the bottomless pit, and go into perdi-
tion, and they that dwell on the earth shall wonder,
whose names were not written in the book of life from
the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast
that was, and is not, and yet is." "That was," Pagan
Rome before John saw his vision, "and is not," yet in
80 ,
ucruaz v.
its last sta of Papal Rome, "
and yet is," in the sane
spirit, for gipal Rome is but an image of Paganism, as
says the Apostle, 2 Thess. ii.6, 7, "
And now ye know
what withholdeth, that he may he revealed in his time,
for the
mystexzlof iniquity doth already work." And, 1
John ii. 18, "
'ttle children, it is the last time, and ll
ye have heard that anti-Christ shall come, even now are
there many anti-Christe, whereby we know it is the last
time." And again, Rev. xvii. 9,
"
And here is the mind
which hath wisdom;
"
evidently
referrinimiohn right
back to our text, "Here is wisdom; let
'
that hath
understanding,"
the same as mind in the above quotation
"The seven eads are seven mountains on which the
woman sitteth, and there are seven kings; Eve are fallen,
one is, and the other is not yet come; and when he
cometh, he must continue a short space, and the bead
that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and is of the
seven, and goeth into perdition." These texts explain
the whole matter; for it is evident that the bean! here
alluded to was the seven-headed monster who was then
in existence when John wrote, for tive of its executive
forms of government (of which kings and mountains are
figures) had fallen. Republican Rome had tive differed
oliices under that particular form of government -
her
acnalorial, tribunale, consular, deccnwir, and triwnoirak.
These were fallen. One is,
Xitlrat
was when John wrote
his prophecy,) Imperial, and t e other had not
'vet come,
Kirw
which is the same as the ten horns. or when
the estern Empire fell, Rome was divided into ten
kingdoms, "And the ten horns which thou saweat are
ten kings, which have received no
kingdom as yet; but
receive power as
kings one hour with the beast." These
have one mind, (that is, were all convened to the Catho-
lic faith,) and shall give their power and strength unto
the beast, Papal Rome. "These shall make war with
the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them ; for he is
lard of lords and King of kings ; and they that are with
him are called, and chosr~n,a.nd l'aithl`ul." And although
this beast, whatever fomr it may assume, whether
Pagan or Papal, may for a season tyrannize over and
trample on the followers of Christ, through the agency
cnnis'r's snconn comme. 81
ol _the evil power of empires, kingdoms, states,-or repub-
hcs, yet He who rules over all, will, in the end, destroy
all these powers, and himself reign King of kings and
Lord over all. "
And the ten homs which thou sawest
upon the beast, these shall hate the whore, and shall
make her desolate and naked, and cut her flesh, and burn
her with fire."
'
This text has been literally accomplished within a few
years; and those kingdoms which were ofthe ten, king-
doms which iirst
5-:ve power to the beast, have of late
persecuted and stro ed her, who is the abomination
ofthe whole earth. Vi;itness the transactions of Great
Britain, France, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Naples, and
Tuscaay,
the Seven
Kingrloms
which were not plucked
up by, e little horn; eac of these nations have in their
turn resisted the power and pretensions of the Pope of
Rome, until his civil authority is reduced to a
cipher in
all these kingdoms. "For God hath put in their hearts
to 61161 his will, and to agree and give their
kin§dom
unto the beast, until the words of God shall be fulll ed."
Then must the
Papal beast, the image of Paganism, be
numbered and finished, and like a weighty mill-stone
sunk inthe deep,_he must with the Pagan beast sink
foréyler
and
evertil who gh b th
A
uswesee etwobeasts, u supported y e
same
power,
"
the great red drvgon or Roman
kingdom,"
exercising the same authority over the bodies an souls
of men, partaking of ine same spirit of Satan, made like
each other, one uei but an image of the other,
having
the same namesof lb? hemy on their heads, and bo
having, at the close oggneir times, the same ten homs,
and both have, 'and are to have, their civil power
destroyed by the same ten home. Yet we see them kept
separate and distinct. Pagan Rome must reign his
time, and then the ben horns, or
kings, would take away
the "
daily sacrifice abomination," and
place
in his stead
the "
abomination that maketh deso ate." The last
abomination was numbered in the same chapter where
our text is found, "forty and two months." And why
not give us the number of the first beast? He has:
"Let him that bath understanding count the number of
82 ucrnu v.
the beast; for it is the number ofa. man; and his num-
ber is six hundred threescore and six." This brings ll
to our next proposition.
IIL To show what we may understand by the num
bering of the beast. And,
lst. What may we understand
bg) numbering any
thing ofthis kind in Scripture? For e
Scripmre must
be our guide, as we have before said.
Idanswer,
It is to count, to
iinishilor tosiestroy,
when
use in a
figurative sense, or in prop etic ripture, as in
Isa. xxii. 10, "
And ye have numbered the houses of Je-
rusalem, and the houses have ye broken down to fortify
the wall." They were accused by the prophet of de-
stroying houses,
bg numbering them or
counting them
for destmction. lso see Isa. lxv. 12, "Therefore will
I number
gon
to the sword, and ye shall all bow down to
the slaug ter." Here again it is used in the same sense:
I will reckon or count
'Kon
to the sword. Again, Dan.
v. 25,26, "
And this is ehand-writing that was written:
Mann, inns, rnnn, UPBARSIN. Thuis the inte -
tion ofthe thing: ur-ms, God hath numbered wm-
dom and hath hnished it."
As, therefore, the idolatrous and blasphemons k' -
dom of Babylon was numbered and imshed by 33,
whose decree was conveyed by the hand-writing on the
wall to the knowledge of Daniel and others, so was
John commanded,
bg'
the inspiration of the Holy Spirit,
to write in this last ook ot' prophecy, the HIRE, nur.,
of this last idolatrous
Pagan
beast. "Here is wisdom."
Let a wise Daniel, or im that hath the wisdom of
God like a. Daniel, or "
let him that hath
understanding"
in the word of God, or him that will compare scnp-
ture with scripture, "
count the number of the beast,"
or the number of his name.
Let ns inquire what is the name of this beast. His
name is
blasgshemy,
because he causes all, both and
low, rich an
poor, bond and free, to
worship
atoc and
stones, idols of gold, and silver, and wood, at can nei-
ther see,
gear, nolrmtnllk. d §e
the
lstfverse
of
o,ui;'§on-
tsxt,"an u n' ea enameo
blasphemy, ich
tsachesuswlh(h.tthsnameofthisbeasti|,sndshowl ns
I
,
cans-r's smconn cormre. 83
that we are to count, or reckon, how lon before the
blasphemies of this Pagan power will he £rished; "
for
it is the number of a man." And what, you may inquire,
is the number ofa man? I answer again, We must apply
to God' word "
the number ot' a man."
Moses
says,
Exodus xxiii. 26, "The number of
th'y
digs
I will ultil." Job, speaking of man, says, xiv. e,
"
eeing his da s are determined, the number of his
months is with thee, thou hast a
pointed his bounds that
he cannot pass." David says, gs. xc. 12,
"
So teach us
to number our
days, that we
may apply our hearts unto
wisdom." Therefore, we
may reasonably conclude that
the "
number of a man
"
isthe number of his days; and
the Scriptures often speak of man in connection with his
time of
solourn
on the earth, callingitdays ; as,
'°
few and
evil have een the
dqyroi'my pilgrimage ;" "
died, being
old and full of days; "length ot'
days
is in her right
hand;
"
"all the days of thy life ;" "
will wait all the
days of my appointed time until my change come." lf'
this is the understanding of this part of our text, which I
cannot see any reason to doubt, then our text has this
plain meaning.
Here is need of apinhzal wisdom. Let
im that ha understanding count the number of his
days; for his days are numbered asa mun's; they are
six hundred threescore and six. This power (Rome
Pagan) would be taken away when his six hundred and
sixty-six prophetic days should end; and this brings us
to show when those days began, and of course when
they
ended.
hey must have begun when the Jewish rites and
ceremonies were in being; for this was the sole object
of Paganism, to counteract the Jewish rituals and draw
the Jewish worshippers into idolatry, and to blend the
heathen rites with theirs. They must have begun be-
fore Christ was born, for the great red dragon having
seven heads and ten homs was tostand before the woman,
(the Jewish Church,) ready to devour the man child as
soon as it was bom. They could not have
beiun
before
they became connected with the Jews, for e reason
that no nation is prophesied of; or noticed in the proph-
ecies, except they are somehow connected with the
84 Lncrunz v.
people uf God; and for the
vezly
reason that this beast
was to tread down the Jews, an finally, by cunn` , de-
ceit, and
intr;-gue,destroy the city and nation of th':§ews,
then I think e fairest conclusion is, that when they be-
came connected with the Jews by lea e,and when they
had conquered Daniel's third
kingnidlm, the Grecian.
Then, and not until then, had the omans
any part in
this prophecy. This agrees with the angel's statement,
Dan. xi. 23, "
After the league made with him, (that is,
R.oma.ns,) he shall work deceitfuliy, and become stong
with a small (republican) people." This league was
made between the Romans and the Jews, ratified and
carried into etfect when the Greeks under Bachides leii
besieging Jerusalem, upon the command of the Romans,
and, as Josephus and Maccabees tell us, never returned
to trouble them (the Jews) any more. This league,
then, took eH'ect when the third
kingdom
in Da.me1's
vision ceased harassing the Jews, an the fourth king-
dom began its rule over the Jews and the world. This
was in the year B. C. 158. Let those who wish to be
satisfied of the correctness of the foregoing statements
read the 8th and 9th chapters of the lst Maccabees,
and Josephus, B. XII. chapter x. sec. 6, of his Antiquities.
Then, if this be correct, that Pagan Rome began his
power in the yearB. C. 158, and was to continue 666
years, when would Paganism fall in the R::_':::: kingdom,
and the "daily sacrifice abomination "
he taken out of
the way to make room for the abomination of desolation?
l answer, Take 158 from 666 and you will have 508.
Then in the
'year
A. D. 508 Paganism ceased.
What is e
history of that time ? I answer, that
about the year A. D. 476 the Western Empire of Rome
crumbled to pieces, and the Pagan nations of the north,
crossing the Rhine and the Danube, established ten
kingdoms in what was
considered the Western Empire.
France was t.he principal
kingdom
of the ten. These
kingdom were all governed y Pagan kings;and his-
tory informs us that in the city of Rome and other places
in the empire these Pagan conquerors sacrificed men,
women, and children to their
siipposed deities; and
tht! ll! tho year 496Clcvis king of rance was converted
'
cn|us'r's szcozm comms. 85
and baptized into the Christian faith; and that the re-
mainder of these kings embraced the
religion of Christ
shortlyoafter,
the last of which was Christianized in the
year 8, and of course Paganism ceased, having lost
its head by the power of the sword, or kin who wield
the sword. Here, then, 'was the accomplisgment of two
important prophecies -the dail sacritice abomination
taken out of the way, and the ¥'agan beast receiving
its deadly wound b a sword; since which time we have
no account of any as rites or sacrifices being ofered
within the bounds ofgdiicient Rome. How exactly has
the word of God been accomplished! How just and
true are all the ways of the God of heaven! And how
blind are mortals that they cannot see their own destiny
in the rise and fall of others ! I am astonished sometimes
when I reiiect on the simple truths of the word of God,
the exact fulfilment of the ro
hecies, that more do not
believe,
repgnt,
and turn to gui
LECTURE VI.
DANIEL I. lt'
Nowlamcometomakelheeunderuaad what shallbéll thy
peopleinthelstterdayqforyettheviaionisformanydays.
Tins is the third time the angel Gabriel came to in-
struct Daniel. The first time was when Daniel hadthe
vision of the he-goat, Daniel viii. 16. This was W
years before Christ. The second time he came was
when Daniel was
praying forthe deliverance of his peo-
ple from their Babylonish captivity, fifteen years afler
the first visit, when he instructed him into the seventy
weeks, and crucilixion of the Messiah. Now he has
come in the third year of
Cyrus
the Persian, in the 534
B. C., 21 years after Danie had his vision of the four
beasts, nineteen after the he-goat, and four years after
the seventy weeks' instruction.
After informing Daniel his purpose, as in our text,
and making some
preliminary observations conceming
the mlnbn in the remainder ot the tenth chapter, he be-
gins his teachings to Daniel, and through him to us,
with the first of the llth chapter. lst verse, he tells
who he, the heavenly messenger, is-the same who
continued Daniel in the seventy weeks. See Daniel
ix. 1, 21. And in the second verse he
begins
with the
fifth king of Persia, the ve same king w o issued the
decree to Ezra to go up angbuild the walls of Jerusa-
lem, which began our seven! weeks, Daniel ix. 25;
Ezra vii. 1-14. I-'or the first l'ersian king was then on
the throne, Daniel x. 1, which was the third year of the
cua1s'r'| sxcozm comms. U
reign of Cyrus, king of Persia. This was the same
gms
who was general and son-in-law to Darius the
ede, that conquered Babylon. Besides whom "
there
should be yet three kings," which three kings were
Artaxerxes, Darius, and Ahasuerus, as they are named
in Scri ture. See Ezra, iv. v. and vi.
chagters.
I am
aware that history has named four where
cripturo
has
only named three. History 'names, l, Cam yses; 2,
Smerdis, same as Artaxerxes above named in
Scyture;
3, Darius, on of Hystaspes, same as above; 4, erxes,
same as Scripture calls Ahasuerus. Why the Scripture
did not name
Cambyses, if there was such a king, I am
not able to tell, unless his reign was so short (which all
historians
agree in) that he had no hand in building or
hindering e building of the temple at Jerusalem, as
the other three kings had, which Ezra has named. But
as Gabriel did not come to tell Daniel any thing which
was not "noted in the Scripture of truth," (see Daniel
x. 21, "But I will show thee that which is noted in the
Scripture of truth,") therefore the
language
of our
text now under examination will be this -
"
here shall
stand up yet three kings in Persia, (noted inthe Scripture
of truth,) and the fourth shall be far richer than they
all," &.c. This fourth king was Artaxerxes Longimanus,
and is the same king noted in Ezra vii., and the first and
only king of Persia "
noted in the Scriptures," who ever
gave a decree to rebuild the walls and streets of Jeru-
salem, especially in troublous times. We may therefore
reasonably and
conclusively detennine that the mes-
senger Gabriel begins his instruction with this king's
reign, the 5th king noted in Scripture. And if so, we
have another strong and forcible evidence that Daniel's
vision of the ram and he-goat began with the seventy
weeks, 457 years before the birth of Christ, and 490
years, or 70 prophetic weeks, before his death, Dan. xi.
3, 4. We have the plain history of Alexander, the con-
uemr of the world, his death, and division ofthe king-
dom into four great empires. Hear what Gabriel says
of him more than 200 years before the event happened,
and learn, ye skeptics, the evidence that this prophecy
hr ofdivine origin. "And a
mighty king shall- stand up
Q _
LDCTUII VL
that shall rule with great dominion, and do accord' to
his will. And when he shall stand up, his
shall be broken, and shall be divided toward the four
winds of heaven, and not to his posterity, nor
according
to his dominion which he ruled; for his kingdom ah
pl; plucked up, even for others besides those," (that is,
`
teri .
Diird l,tt¥hien, tell my hearers that history tells us that
Alexander con uered the then known world in about six
years, and that(he died 323 years B. C. at Babylon; that
his kin dom was divided among his
greatest nerals,
from which division arose four great kingdoms, pt in
the south, Persia in the east, Syria in the no and
Macedonia in the west, which kingdoms lasted until
conquered by the Romans? Between the years 190 and
30 B. C. nearly all these kingdoms became Roman prov-
inces. From Daniel xi. 5, 13, inclusive, we have a
prophecy of the two principal kingdoms out of these four
-
Egypt and Syria; and any one who may have the cu-
riosity to see the exact
agreement
between the prophecy
and history, can read Ro in's Ancient History, where he
-has not only given us the history, but applied this proph-
ecy. And as Isee no reason to disagree from him in his
application
of these texts, I shall, therefore, for brevity's
sa e, pass over these texts, and examine the text, Dan. xi.
14, "
And in those times there shall many stand up against
the king of the south; also, the robbers of th people
shall exalt themselves to establish the vision; but they
shall fell." The king of the south, in this verse, without
any doubt, means
king of Egypt; but what the robbers
¥thypeople means remains yet a doubt perhapsto some.
hat it cannot mean Antiochus, or any king of Syria., it is
plain ; for the angel had been talking about that nation tht
a number of verses previous, and now says, "also the
robbers of thy
people," &c., evidently implying some
other nation. I wil admit that Antiochus did perhaps
rob the Jews ; but how could this "establish the vision,'
as Antiochus is not spoken of any whore in the vision as
peribrniir;-Eany
act of that kind; for he belonged no what
is called e lnecian kingdom in the anion. Again, "
to
sslablislitliesisissfmustnieantomake sure,eompIete,
or fulfil the same. And if it cannot be shown that the
4
caa|s'r's slcoim comms. 89
Grecian kingdom was to rob the people of God, l think
it must; mean some other nation which would do these
acts, to which every word will apply. And_to this we
need not be at a loss; for at this very time of which the
angel is speaking, Rome, the least kingdom in Daniel's
vision, did exalt itself; and this kingdom did have the very
marks in the |)'L!!b1l, and in the events following. This
kingdom was to have great iron teeth; it was to break in
pieces, and stamp the residue with the feet of it.' The
vision also says,
"
He shall destroy wonderfully, and
shall prosper and practise, and shall destroy the mighty
and holy people, and that he should magnify himself"
dsc., the same as exalt himself; Daniel vii. 7, 23; viii.
10-12, 24, 25 verses. And it cannot be denied but that
the Jews have been robbed of their city and sanctuary
by the Romans, and the Christian church has been per-
secuted and robbed by this dreadful beast, the Roman
kingdom. It is evident too that when this kingdom falls,
the vision will be completed, fulfilled, established: "
but
they shall fall," says.the angel in the verse under our
present examination; "they shall fall ;" that is, the ten
horns in this fourth kingdom, when the vision is fulfilled
or established, and when the stone cut out of the moun-
tain without hands shall grind them to powder. ,We
will take the 15th, "So the king of the north "
(Rome
is now the king of the north, because they had conquered
the Macedonian
kingdom,
and had become masters of the
countries north an east before they attacked Egypt)
"shall come and cast up a mount, and take the most
fenced cities; and the arms of the south shall not with-
stand, neither his chosen people, neither shall there be
any strength to withstand." This was about fifty years
before Christ, when Pompey, a Roman encral, con-
quered Egypt, and made that kingdom trgxutary tothe
Roman , and afterwards entered Jerusalem, and made
them sub`ects of the Roman govemment. See verses
16 and 17: "
But he that cometh against him "
(Pompey
coming against Egypt) "shall do according to his own
will, and none shall stand before him, and he shall stand
in the glorious land which
by his hand shall be con-
sumed. He shall also set his face to enter 'with the
8 0
W Lacuna: vr.
strength of his whole kingdom, and upright out with
him," (or men of equal conditions, as it might have been
rendered.) The Roman army, of which Pompey had the
command, when he went into E pt. and Palestine, were
composed of the sons of all tgye principal citisem of
Rome, who were, according to the laws of the republic,
to serve ten
dyears
in the service of their country befbre
they were a mitted to receive the high odices which
they
mi¥ht
afterwards be candidates for. This account:
for the anguage just read in the text-" upright ones
with him." And "
thus shall he do: he shall
Sze
him
the dau liter of _woman, corrupting her; but shall
not stan§ on his side nor be for him." When Pompey
went into Egypt, he found that country divided between
Ptolemy and Cleopatra. Pompey, after he had made
them tributary to the Romans, compelled them to settle
their dilferences by marriage. Afterwards, when Julius
Cesar came against Pompey with his westem veteram,
with whom he had conquered the west part of Europe,
and in the battle fought between these two contending
rivals,
Pompety
and Julius Cesar, Cleopatra had the
command ol' e
Egyptian
Beet on the side of Pompey;
but in the midst of t e action she deserted over to Cesar
with her whole lieet, which tumed the fortune of the
day in favor of Julius Cesar. Pompey then fled into
the Grecian isles, where he compelled many of them to
declare in his favor. But Cesar soon followed him, and
at the battle of Pharsalia completely defeated Pompey,
who was slain by a band of pirates or robbers. This
part we have in thc 18th verse, "After this shall he
(Pompey) tum his lhce unto the isles, and shall take
many; but a prince
's_Cmsarg
for his own behalf shall
cause the reproach o ered y him(Pompey)to cease:
without his own
(C|esar)repmach he shall cause it to
tum upon him,
|$l'ompcy :) 19th verse,
"
Then l\e(Cesar)
shall tum his ace towards the fort of his own land;
but he shall stumble and lkll, and not be found." The
history of Cu:sar's death is liuniliar to every school-boy.
Aller he had conquurerl Pompey, hc returned to Rome.
entered the city in triumph, and u liew drys alter, when
he was about to be crowned Emperor, he was slain in
cnars'r's sxcosn course. 91
the senate-house, before Pom y's
pillar, by his own
friends; "
he stumbled and feii an was not found."
20th verse,
"
Then shall stand up in his estate a raiser
of taxes, in the
glory
of the kingdom; but within a few
days he shall e
destroyed, neither in anger nor in
battle." This verse describes Octavius Caesar, who first
taxed the Roman provinces, Judea being taxed (see
Luke ii. 1, 5) when our Savior was hom; but Octavius
Cesar, afterwards called Augustus Caesar, was not
slain like his uncle Julius, nor like his successors; but
died peaceably in his bed. 21st and 22d verses,
"
And
in his ,estate shall stand up a vile person, to whom
they
shall not give the honor of the
kingdom; brit he shal
come in peaceably, and obtain the kingdom by iiatteries.
And with the arms of a 'flood shall they be overthrown
from before him, and shall be broken; yea, also, the
prince of the covenant." In these two verses we have
the history of Tiberius Cresar, who was the successor of
Octavius Caesar in the Roman empire; and was one of
the most vile, profiigate, bloody tyrants that ever sat
upon the Roman throne. History gives ._us the same
account, that he obtained by flatteries the kingdom, and
afterwards ruled it by tyranny. He also assumed the
name of Augustus. In his reign Christ was crucified,
"the Prince of the covenant was broken." Here ends
the history of the seventy weeks. This prophetic his-
tory being divided into four divisions, the iir t part is
the history of the seventy weeks, to which we have been
attending, which began in the seventh year of' Arra-
xerxes' reign, and ended in the 22d year of Tiberius
Cresar's,
bernifour
hundred and ninety years ; the second
part will be a history of Pagan Rome, which begins
with the first league made between the Romans and the
Jews, and will
carry
us down six hundred and sixty-six
ears. You will li ewise observe that the el goes
hack and begins this history with the league. aggd verse,
"
And aiter the league made with him he shall work
deceitfirlly: he shall come up, and shall become strong
with a small
*peofp:." ,
Let u in e t place inquire, Between whom is this
league made ? The Romans must be one of the contract-_
92 accross vi.
ing parties, from the fact that the angel is
talkintglabout
that government before and afterwards, and t the
fourth or Roman kingdom was to work deceitfully, "and
through his polic also he shall cause craft to prosper in
his hand." See £aniel viii. 25. And also from the cir-
cumstance ot' their being a small or republican people at
lirst, Rome, too, was small in territory at this time, al-
though muny nations and kingdoms were tributary unto
them; but who was the other contracting
party
in this
league? I answer, It must have been some peop e whom
the angel had in view; and he, Daniel, had the same in
view, or he would have given some mark by which Dan~
iel or the reader could have come to a
Just
conclusion.
Yes, this was the case; for he had tnl Daniel in the
very outset,
"
Now I am come to make thee understand
what shall befall thy eapk in the latter
days."
See our
text. This, then, is &e key that unlocks e whole sub-
'ect, and explains two important points in the vision.
llfirst, it teaches who are the subjects of this vision ; and,
secondly, when and how the Roman kingdom became
connected with the vinbn. If I am thus far correct, then
the angel has reference to the league made with the Ro-
mans 158 years B. C., when the Grecian
ugeneral
Bachi-
des withdrew his army from before Jerus em, and never
returned to vex the Jews any more, as says 1 Maccabees
ix. 72. For the
history
of this
lea§|e, you can read l
Maccabees viii. and osephus B. II. chap. x. sec. (i.
This league was the lirst ever made between the Romans
and the Jews, according to Josephus. It took etfoct
158 years B. C., when the Grecian kingdom, at tho
command of tho Romans, ceased totrouble the .Iews, and
the Romans begairto work deceitfully. Then began tho
Pagan beast to exercise his induence over the people
of God. And now let us
pursue his history as
given by
the angel Gabriel, 24th verse, "He shall enter peace-
ably, even u n the fattest places of the province; and
he shall do that which his fathers have not done, nor his
fathers' fathers; he shall scatter among them the prey,
and spoil, and riches; yea, he shall forecast his devices
against the strong holds even for a Lime." This venu
cnars'r's slcoim mourns. W
is a true history of the rise of the Romauvpower; they
did scatter the prey and
spoil among the provinces, and
conquered morenations their--muniiicence and be-
nevolence in the outset, than by their arms or battles.
Rome bought more nations b riches and intrigue than
she conquered in war; and she compelled the Jews to
submit tbr about two centuries to that which no nation
before had been able ever to do, viz.,to be ruledb kings,
govemors,.and high
tgriests, appointed by the Iiomans,
and not chosen by emselves. 25th verse, "And he
shall stir up his power and his courage against the king
of the south with a
great arm ; and the king of the
south shall be stirred up to battie with a very
'great
and
mighty army; but he shall not stand; for ey shall
forecast devices against him." This is a description of
the war in Egypt, under the government of Mark Antony
and Octavius Cesar. "Yea,»they that feed of the r-
-tion of his meat shall destroy him, and his army £ll
overflow, and many shall fall down slain." ~When Air
tony, went into
Egpt
with a great army, Cleopatra, then
queen of
Egypt,
serted her husba.nd's standard, as she
had before ompey's, and went over to Mark Antony
with all the forces she could command, by which means
Egypt became an easy prey to the Romans; so that a
:rt
of the. Egyptian army, that fed of the portion of the
'ng's meat, were the means of destroying the kingdom.
"
And both of these kings' hearts shall be to do mischief;
and they shall peak lies -at one table; but it shall not
prosper; for yet the end shall be at the time appointed."
These two kings are Antony and Octavius, their char-
acters
agreeing with the description given in this pas-
sage; history agreeing that they ruled over the Romans
for a season jointly, and that they were both of them
great deceivers and liars. History also informs us that
after Antony had conquered Egypt, he and Octavius
quarrelled; Octavius Caasar declared war against A_n-
tony, marched an army towards Egypt, and at the bat-
tle of Actium defeated Antony and Cleopatra's forces
afterwards took Alexandria in Egypt, and Antony and'
Cleopatra put themselves to death, and Egypt becomes
a Roman province. This was thirty years before the
94 ucruaa vr. .
birth of Christ. 28, "Then shall he return into his land
with great riches; and his heart shall be against the
holy covenant; and he shall do exploits and return to
his own land." Then Octavius returned to Rome.
And the next exploit that this fourth
kingldlem
would do
would be against the holy covenant. ey, by their
authority, crucified our Savior, persecuted the saints,
and destroyed Jemsalem; and this fills up the acts of
this Ps history until towards the close of the
of the grgan beast. 29, "
At the time appointed, e
shall retum, and come toward the south; but it shall not
be as the former, or as the latter." The time appointed
must mean the length of the reign of this beast, whose
history the angel is now giving, which I have shown, in
a fomxor lecture, is 666
years.
"He shall retmn, and
come towards the
south, not as the former or latter.
Not as the Romans gomg into Egypt, the latter; nor
the Syrians going into Egypt, as the former; but Italy
must now take her tum to be overrun by the northern
barbarians. Therefore the
angel says, in the nextverse,
see 30,("For the ships of C 'ttim shall come against
him;") the meani of which is, that the Hans, which
lived on the north? the Adriatic Sea, the place where
it was anciently called Chittim, under their leader Attila,
(surnamed the Scout-ge of
God,$
should
ravagirthe
Ro-
man
empiro. This was fullille 447 years a Christ.
"Therefore he shall be
grieved
and return, and have in-
dignation aguinst the ho y covenant; so shall be do; he
shall return, und have intelligence with them that for-
salxabtine l:}<:ly coveslant"
ut e time at Attila
ravaged the Roman emp|re,`
Christians conceived it to be a
Judgment of God upon
the Romans for their
idolatR'°;.1nd wickedness, refined
to bear amis in favor ol' the an
emperors, which led
to a bloody persecution of Christians, and a renewal of
Pagan rites and sacrifices, which had been
(partially
sus-
pended during the reign of Constantine an
succeeding
emperors,
expipt
in the case of Julian the
Aipostate.
"And anna s lstand on his
part," thatis, the one of
the empire would be on the side of Paganism "And
tbayshall pollutetbe sanetuaryofstrengtla" Tlq,in
cnn||'r's slcozm comme. 95
this
passfzie,
mean the mments or kings, established
on the of the Rosie empire in the west, by the
Huns, Goths and Vandals ofthe north. "
By sanctuary of
strength," is meant- Rome. And it is said that at the
time that Rome was taken, men, women, and children
were 'sacrificed to their
Pagan deities. "
And shall
take away the daily sacrifice. The angel is giving us
a history of what these kings would do, when Rome
should be divided into its ten toes, or when the ten horns
should arise, which the
angel
has heretofore
explained
to mean ten kings, Danie vii. 24. This is evi ent by
his using the plural pronoun instead of the singular, as
before, or as he will following, when the little horn ob-
tains the power. To "take away the daily sacriice,"
means to destroy Paganism out of the
kgdom.
_
This
was done by those ten kings who now rul the Roman
empire, and would for a little season, until they should
give their power to the image beast. "
And they shall
place the abomination that maketh desolate." They,
meaning the ten kings, shall place, shell put in the room
or
place of the daily aacrjice or
Pagan beast which would
now receive its death wound by the sword, that is, by the
civil power of this fourth kingdom, under the
reigning
power of these ten kings; for John tells us, Rev. xvir.
12, 13, "And the ten homs which thou sawest are ten
kings, which have received no kingdom as yet; but
shall receive power as
kings one hour with the beast;
these have one mind, (being all Pa.gans,) and shall give
their
power
and strength unto the beast ;" that is,
tosgp-
port aganism. Now, this was
evidently fulfilled; or
after the fall of the Westem Empire, A. .
476, and be-
fore A. D. 490, ten
kings had risen upon the ruins, and
formed ten separate kingdoms, the names of which I
have before 'ven; they all being
Pagans,
of course
they supporteglthntform of worship, imti the were con-
verted to the Christian faith, which happenedywithin the
space of
twggty years, Clovis, the king of France, having
bee_n conve and
brtgtized
in the year A. D. 496. By
the year A. D. 508, e remainder of the kings were
brought over and embraced the Christian religion, which
closes the history of the Pagan beast, whose. number
96 nxcrual vr.
was 666; which,
beg;nning
158 years B. C., would end
the beast's reign A. .
508, having reigned but s. short
time, (one hour, says John,) with the ten
kings. We
have now gone through with the angel Gabriela second
pun of the history, as we promised.
Ishall now
gl?
on with the illustration of the third
put of his
protg
etic history, which is the history of the
image beast, e deadly wound healed, or what Daniel
calls "the abomination that maketh desolate." This
beast would rule over the
kings
of the earth, and tread
the church of God under foot ort -two months, or time,
times, and a half, which is tweie hundred and sixty
years, in common time, or, asthe
angel
tells us in Daniel
xii. ll, from the taking away the aily abomination to
set up the abomination- that maketh desolate, should be
a thousand two hundred and ninety days, showing a
ditference of thirty years from the statement of the
actual reign of the image beast and the other, which in-
cludes all the time from taking away down through the
setting up or reign of the image beast Therefore, to
reconcile these two statements, we must conclude there
were 30 years from A. D. 508, when Paganism ceased,
before the image beast, or Papal Rome, would begin her
reign. If this is correct, then the 1290
bgg-an 508, and
would end us in 1798. But the reign of a
acy would
not be set up until A. D. 538, and would end) us in the
same year, A. D. 1798, being 1260. This, then, is the
history the angel will give us next. 32, "And such as
do wickedly against the covenant shall be corrupted b
tlatterers; but the people that do know their God ahah
he strong, and do exploits." The ecclesiastical histnri-
ans tell us that in the beginning of the sixth century,
about A. D. 538, a number of writers in that day under-
took to prove that the Papal chair, together with coun-
cils of his approval, were infallible, and their laws were
bindin on the whole church. These writers were
highlyshonorodand flattered with promotion by the rein-
ing powers ; while on the other hand there were many
who
ogpossd
this power of the Pope and clergy, who
were enounccd as schismatics and Arians, und driven
outofthokingdoulunder the control of the Romish
cnaxs'r's sncoim eonmve. 97
church. 33, "
grid they that understand among the
people shall in ct many; yet they shall fall by the
sword, and by dame, by captivity, and by spoil many
days." Those who instructed the common o le, and
opposed the
worshipping
of
images, the inmlibilityof
the Pope and councils, e
canomzing of departed saints,
were
'persecuted by the civil power, (the sword,) were
bume by order oi' the ecclesiastical courts established
by the laws of Justinian,
emtperor
of Constantinople,
whose code of laws, publishe about A. D. 534, gave
unto the bishop of Rome power to establish courts for this
purpose,_ and many in the sixth century and subsequent
down to a late period, "many days," sufered death, im-
prisonment, and confiscation of goods, in conse uence
of a difference of opinion in matters of religion, the
tyranny of this abomination, "
the bloody city whic has
reigned over the kings of the earth." 34, "
Now, when
they shall fall, they shall be helped with a little help;
but many shall' cleave to them with Batteries." This
text
agrees
with one in Revelation xii. 16, "And the
earth ielped the woman." "But
malay
shall cleave to
them;" that`is,
many
men of the worl would cleave to
them, and professed y would Hatter the true people of
God that they were friendly at least to them, and by
these means Satan carried on his wars
aigainst
the chil-
dren of God. 35, "
And some of them o understanding
shall fall, to try them, and to
purge
and to make them
white, even to the time Q' the en ,
because it is yet for
a time appointed." This verse shows us that even Chris-
tians would be led into some of the errors of Papacy,
and would be tried and purged, even to the end of this
image beast's rei n, which time is appointed, as I have
already shown, to be "
time, times, and a half," |260 years,
ending A. D. 1798. 36, "
And the king shall do accord-
ing to his will; and he shall exalt himself and
magnify
himself above every god, and shall
speak
marvelous
things against the God of gods, and sha l prosper till the
indignation
be accomplished, for that that is determined
shal be done." The ki here spoken of is the same
as Daniel's little hom, biich came
up among the ten
hurns. It it
th;
same that blasphemed the God of
96 Lscruan vi.
heaven. It is mystical Babylon. Isa. xiv. 12-15;
Rev. xiii. 5,6. The same Paul has described in his
Epistle, 2Thess. ii. 1-9; the same image beast which
we have been examining the history of; and one
thing
is evidentfthat this beast will continue until the day
that God ours out his indignation upon a
guilty
world
in some iidrm or other. iii "Neither shul he regard
the God of his fathers, nor the desire ot' women, nor re-
gard any god; for he shall magnify hiinself above all."
In this passage we have a plain
dc cragtion
of Papacy;
they do not worship the same gods e Pagans did-
"their fathers." And their clergy are forbidden to
marry; the Pope calls himself the vicegercnt of God, or
God on earth, having the keys of heaven, &c. 38, "
But
in his estate shall he honor the god of forces; and a
god
whom his fathers knew not shall he honor with gold,
and silver, and precious stones, and pleasant things."
It is true that the Pope,.for ages past, has had large
armies at his command, and always a body-guard to at-
tend him in his capital ; also, that they adorn their
pictures with gold, and silver,
and'-precious stones, and
pleasant things, and that the gods
eyfworship,
such as
the images of Christ, apostles, and irgin Mary, and
canonized saints, were not known to Pagan worship-
pers. 39, "Thus shall he do in the most strong holds
with s strange god whom he shall acknowledge and in-
crease with glory; and he shall cause them to rule over
many, and shall divide the
lanilfor gain."
These patron saints, which c Po e divided among
the several nations of the earth, and. in almost every
Fimily, each one
having their patron saint to rule over
them, by the appointment ofthe Pope, were
strange gods
indeetl;and rational beings might truly wonder when
they beheld the power of this last abomination over the
minds and judgments of mankind. And then, again, to
see the number of kingdoms, provinces, states, and ter-
ritories, which the Pope has sold to enrich his coffers,
without any more right or title to them than we have to
the land in the moon, must convince every one that the
description given must apply to the church of Rome or
cmus'r's u-:conn counts 99
the Pope, who claims to exercise this great authority by
his crazy title to St. Peter's chair.
We have now arrived to the end of the third division
of the angel's histo ; for the next verse tells us,
'°
and
at the time qfthe cuz," meaning the end of his power, to
tread on the church by his civil
authority,
or reign over
the kings of the earth, and to dispose o lands for gain
I have brought you down, my kind heurer, through Il
lon rophetic history of more than 2200 years, iid
landed, ou to the year A. D. 1798, when the Pope of
Rome lost his civil power. In the
b§ginning
of the
ear 1798, on the 15th of Februa ,
a rench general,
§erthier, entered Rome with a lgyrench army without
resistance, deposed the Pope, abolished the Papal gov~
ernment, and erected the republic of
Italy. The Pope,
being taken prisoner, was carried a prisoner by them
first to Sienna in Tuscany, from thence to Florence,
afterwards to Grenoble, and then to Valence, in France,
where he died on the 19th of August, 1799, since which
time the Pope of Rome has exercised no more of his
former power over an of the kings in Europe, or the
Protestant church. Vze shall now close our lecture on
this history for the present,
reserving]
the remainder of
GabrieI's mtereeting history for auo er lecture.
LECTURE vu.
DANIEL xii. 8.
AadIheard,buiIundemoodnoi:henaaidl Omybonl,
wamhmbsmseuaofihwamnpf
Paavxous to Danie1's asking the question
incur text, hehadbeen
tauggas
we have seenmour
former lecture, not only the 'story of iiltme event: u
they would succeed each other down to the _end of the
world, but he had the regular order _of time speci-
iied in the duration of the little horn, "h1¢; #501 #md 0
haf/Q"
as in Daniel vii. 25, and xii. 7. But he been
in ormed of many events which should
transixre
ther
his "
time, times, and a
hug"
should be timshe a.nd_not
having the
lenm
of the agan beast, or daily abomina-
tion, given to
'
at all, he could not tell or understand
whereabouts in his grand number of 230) days, the
end of the civil power of the little hom, or Papal R°lD°»
carried him: there was no rule 'ven Daniel yet by
which he could tell when or how long after the cruci-
fixion of the Messiah before the daily sacrilice abomi-
nation would be taken out of the way, and the power of
the little hom be established, and the abomination of
desolation set up. Be sure, Daniel had heard the whole
histo down to the resurrection, and had the whole vision
apecilzed in his 2300 days. But as he saw there were
evidently three divisions of the time alter the cruciixion
or
cutting oil' of the Messiah at the fulfilment of his
490 years, or 70 weeks, down to the end of his 1810
years, which would be the remainder of his total number
of 2300 years, after his 70 weeks should be fulfilled#
'
cnarsrs slconn comma. 101
and having only 1260 of those years accounted for hy
the reign of his little horn, leaving tive hundred and
fifty years to be applied on the Pagan beast, and for the
events which we are to attend to after the Papal beast
lost his civil power,-therefore the
propriet
of Daniel's
saying in our text,
"
Then I heard, but uudyerstood not."
He understood not how this 'time was divided, and espe-
cially, how much time would be taken up in the last
division of the ange1's history, beginning with the 40th
verse of the 11th chapter, where our last lecture ended,
and finishing with the context of the 12th
chapter,
the
verse previous to our text. That this is the
pain
and
significant meaning, is evident from what fo lows our
text,`viz., the
an§el
s answer to Daniel's ueation, "
What
shall be the en of these things?" ind he said, Go
thly way, Daniel; for the words are
closleisp
and sealed
ti the time ofthe end ;
"
that is, my ion is closed,
the words are finished, and registered in the roll of God's
word, they are sealed, that is, made sure, unalterable,
will stand until every word has its fulfilment, which in
the end shall be accomplished
'
not, as some suppose,
that Daniel's prophecy is sealed: closed up, out of sight,
and cannot be understood. This is not the way of God's
dealings with us; for if this had been the an¢'rel's mean-
ing, he would have said to Daniel as he did°to.J`ohn in
similar circumstances, Rev. x. 4, "
Seal up those things,
and write them not" But it is the reverse; for he says
in the next verse, 10,
"
Many shall be
lpuriiied,
and made
white, and tried; but the wicked shal do wickedly, and
none, of the wicked shall understand." None of the
wicked shall understand what? Why, the thin before
ken of- Daniel's vision and instruction. Vgeiy well,
Rn the wicked do right for once. Certainly, if your
exposition ofthe former text is correct, that it is hid, and
cannot be known, they are
obeying the command of the
angel, close up and seal the words; and surely they will
not be condemned for obedience. "But the wise shall
understand," sa s the angel. What shall the wise
understand? They shall understand the virion ; or the
words before spoken by the angel at least. But say you,
"
Daniel was
copnnanded to seal up and close the words,
U
`
102 LECTURE vu.
so that they may never know them till the end, and the
wise understand them. How can these things be?" I
answer, These texts explain each other. There is a close
connection in the word of God which must always be
kept in view, and if our exposition of one contradicts
another of the same connection or of like import, we
may
know there is a
wrong in ust Now, one
thing
is certain,
-"all Scripture is given by inspiration of od, and is
profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for in-
struction in righteousness, that the man ot' God may be
perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works."
And "
secret things belong to God; but things revealed,
to us and our children." And when I see
pretended
servants of God, men of great pretence to piety and
knowledge, disputing long and sharp on some metaphys-
ical point in theology which they nor their hearers can
never understand, and when they are asked to explain the
plain declarations of God, put it oil; by
saying,
it is sealed
up, and we ought not to try to understan it, it makes me
think of 1Esop's fable of the
dcig
in the manger; of
Christ's reprooi'to the scribes and harisoes, "
Woe unto
you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye shut up
the kingdom of heaven against men; for ye neither go
in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are
enteringlto
in;" and this passage in Daniel, "
The wicked s ll
sg wickedly; and none of the wicked shall understand;
but the wise shall understand." You may depend upon
one thing, when you hear such declarations as the above
from the pulpit, that the speaker does not love his Bible
as well as he loves his own popularity, and studies to
support his Faith, the popular writers and standard au-
thors ofthe day, more than thc divine revelation of God.
But God is now trying his
peolple;
he is now
giving them
a great rule to know their ovc tor his word. If the
word of God is to them foolishness, and they take more
delight
in the popular writers of the day,
thely may de-
gsn upon it they are stumbling at that stumh
ing-stone.
ut the angel tells us that runny shall be puri ed and
made white. 'l'his was good news to Daniel, and ought
to be so tn us; ibr it is the (l4'('liH`llll0|l ol' (iod throu 'h
the medium ot' Gabriel, his messenger.
"
And from the
onrs'r's umm comms. MB
time that thedaily sacriiiceshall be taken away, and the
-abomination that maketh desolate set up, there
shall be
a thousand two hundred and ninety days. Blessed is he
an e an
°
ays: ut way til e
th? singcornleth tebthe tlnee huimd
vendbe,ibr t|roul2slt~rest,m§0|tand in thylotat the
end ofthe days." Now Daniel had all he could ask for;
now he could understand the time, and the length, and
nrt ofeveq'division»which the angel had given him in
`
instruction, so liar as to ill up his vision of 2300
fears, (as we shall call them, having proved in a ibrmer
ecture
that-thiyought to be so reckoned, and have been
so
fulfilled.) e has now learned that, to
be%in
and
reckon back from the resurrection, which he we l knew
would be 1810
'gears
after Christ's crucifixion, he mi ht
Iind out when e daily sacrifice abomination wouldgie
taken away. Therefore take 1335 years from 1810
years, would lemve 475 years; and he could reckon from
the end of the 70 weeks, or 490 years, to the end of Pagan
Rome, would be 475, from thence to the time he should
stand -in-his lot, would be 1335 years. Then by adding
490
475
1335
would makethé smntotal ofhis whole vision 2300 years.
And now, let us
suppose he wished to know when the
abomination of desolation would end, and when it would
begirli. giedhasdonly
to take his
x;n1im'i1l;;',ho:e theiushagg
twounrea.uni.netyas`ven 'in 'ange
his 1335, aus-
'
1%
'
1290
45
and he finds that 45 years before the resurrection the
little hom would lose his civil power. Now, let him
take his time, times, and a half; and add, say 1260 years
to 45 years, and he will find that the little hom began
his reign '1305 years before the resurrection, and 30
years after the daily sacrifice abomination was taken
away. And now he is prepared to give his vision and
104 ueroa! nr.
the imtructionofthe angel all their properboaringl,
andproveitthmz-
lst. The seventy weeksor490yearstothecruc|-
lixion of Clvisg . ......... 490
From crncihxion to taking away daily ahoiination, 475
From taking away Paganrites to the setting up
abomination of desolation, ...... Il)
Fromsettingup Papal powerltime, timu,and a
half)totheendofhisc|vil reign, . . . IW
From the taking away the Papal civil rule to the
resurrection, ......... . .
Now add these
together, and you will havethe whole Zl00
years of Daniel s vision. Do you not, kind hearer,
see by this mode, and by these last numbers given him,
Daniel could learn every part and division of the whole
history down to the time when he should dand in his
lot? But now, for his instruction, we will suppose Dan-.
iel understood our mode of
reckoninivhtime;
he might
have given it to us in this way:-" e 70 weeks, or
490 years, will be accomplished A. D.33. The pagan
abomination will be taken away 475 years atherwards,
which will be A. D. 508. The papal abomination will be
set up
{l)5ears after, A. D. 538, and will continue 1250
years, A. . 1798. After this 45 years, I shall stand in
my lot, and all that come forth to this resurrection will
be blessed, A.D. 1843." "Blessed is he that waitsth
and cometh to the thousand three hundred and tive
and thirty days." Rev. xx. 6. "
Blessed and holy is he
that hath part in the first resurrection."
We are now prepared to give you the remainder of
the an_gel's instruction to Daniel, beginni where we
leh oil in our last lecture; and you will iigewise now
take notice that it is the last division, and what we now
shall rezul to you must all take place in 45 yearn, be-
tween the
years
1798 and 1843. So that you may, al-
most all o you, judge for
tylourselves, upon your own
observations, whether these 'nga are so or not.
We therefore begin at the 40th verse of the llth
chapter of Daniel, "and at the time of the end" ol' the
papal civil power. Now, mother @l'w|l&l obtained
45
cr|s.|s'r's ncozn sense. 105
thi civil power: thiswas Bonaparte, theruler ofthe
French nation. This year -of which we are now treat-
ing was the very year that the French destroyed the
power ofthe pope, and Bonaparte began his extraordina-
ry career in conquest and
autheritg;
and it was evident,
by his success and fortune,th.at e was raised up by
God himself for some great and special purpose; and
through him, as an instrument, and by moms of the
.1;ren<;ml;_'e1;_o§1tion, thebshaekles
that had
borlmd
more
.t an o ure in igotry, su rstition,ea tyrann ,
were burst ssund}::, and the and
Papacxslogt
their power and tenor over the bodies and min of
men. At this time, then, our
pmghecy begkis, and Bo-
naparte is the person designated y the prrmouns he and
him in
thetgrophecy:
"
And, at the time of the end, shali
the
kings
the south push at him; and the king of the
north s all come
agrinst
him like a whirlwind, with
chariots, and with '
orsemen, and with many ships."
This is a description of an alliance entered into by the
king of Sardinia, Italy, and Spain, in the south, and
Great Britain, in the north, fer six years. England en-
gaged, in this treaty, to pay the king of Sardinia200,000L
get
annum to furnish an army of horse and a
large;
fleet.
he command of the lest was given to Lord elson.
Various was the success of the allies in the south.
Spain had to recede, and finallyjoined the French. The
lung ef Sardinia had to leave his territories on the con-
tinent, and shut himself up in the island of Sardinia.
The -king of Naples tied to the island of Sicily, after
making a vigorous push at the French, in November,
1798, and getting possession of' Rome, while Lord Nelson
took and destroyed the French ileet, near ue mouth of
the Nile, the same year. But the Fnench soon retook
Italy; and this broke up this
leagie,
and the French
remained masters of almost all at
belonged to the
Western Empire of Rome, except Great Britain. "
And
he shall enter into the countries, and shall overilow, and
pass over," was literally accomplished. "
He shall enter
also into the glorious landf' (or land of delight, as it
might have been translated.) This, I have no doubt,
means Italy. Bonspartsfoughtsoms of his most
IIB ncrual vrr.
lisnt battles in this
deliphtsome country. 'I'he baule
ofMarengowasfoXfht,i
Imietake not,inJune, IHIO,
after crossing the ps, an impassable barrier between
France and Italy, as it was supposed by his enemim
"
And many countries shall be overthrown." It is said
that Bonaparte conquered three kingdoms at the battle
ofMarengo.
"Buttheseshallesc;,peontofhishands,
even Edom and Moab, and the chi of the children of
Ammon." Bonaparte, when he went into Egypt, calcu-
lated to march into the East
Indies
he
advancid
into
S' where,alergainingsome vantages, e re-
ctgxd a decisive check before St. John d'Acre, when
he was ohligedto raise the siege, and retreat back to
Egypt with the shattered remains ofhis army. So the
country once inhabited by the Edomites, Moabites, and
Ammonites, "escaped out ofhishands." 42, "Heshall
stretchforthlrishandsalsouponthecountries; andthe
land of
Egypt
shall not esca
"
"Hands" signiia
Eager;
an what
count;-_y
on th);globe did not more or
feel the effects o Bonaparte's power? Egypt,
surely, did not escape; liar all Lower
Egynwas
cou-
quered by his arms. 43, "
But he sh ve
powa'
over the
treasure?
of
gold; and of silver,
anim
over all the
recious thin o
Egypt. Bonaparte, in
`
conquest
gfEgypt, levisd con1:ri utions upon the inhabitants of
the country suicient to
support and
(pay
his U-oops, and
brought
awagmuch
with him. "An the Lybians and
Et.hi¢;pians
s ll be at his steps." When he that went
into
gjypt,
he landed his
army on the coast of what was
ancien
E
called
Libia,
and his last battle was
fought in
Upper 'Eypt
-
w at the ancients called Ethiopia. So
ho of ese places were at his steps, although neither
of them was
fairly conquered, as was
Egynpt. 44, "
But
tidings out of the east, and out of the no shall trouble
him. This was what was at that time called the Holy
Jllliance. This was composed of most of the kin on
the north and east of France, which iimlly prove?the
overthrow of the power of Bonaparte, and the reswra
tion ofthe Bourbons on the throne of France.
The news of this alliance caused him much trouble,
and retnmto Franca. "Thuafrse
cnars'r's srconn course. 107
he shall go forth with great firry to destroy and
utterly
tn make away many." This is a plain description o
Bonapa.rt»e's campaign into Russia. He went forth with
an army of 400,000 men, with fury, in order to break up
the Holy Alliance. He did uwerly destroy Moscow,
and laid desolate the country thro h which he passed.
He made away with more than 20011500 of his own army,
besides the destruction of his enemies, say many thou-
sands more. Such a destruction of life and
'property
in
one
campai§n
was never known since the sys of the
Persians an the Greeks. 45, "And he shall plant the
tabernacle of his palace between the seas in the glorious
holy mountain," (or mountain of delight.) This was lit-
era
ly fulfilled, in May 26, 1805, when Bonaparte was
crowned
king
of Italy at Milan, -Italy l ing between
two seas. o "
plant the tabernacle olyhis palace"
would be to establish him as kin .
"
Yet he shall come
to his end, and none shall helplrim." ~
This closes the
history of one of the most powerful monarchs-the most
ambitious and fortunate of warriors, and a man of un-
bounded sway
-
that modem times had ever produced.
He had destroyed, perhaps, more than 3,000,000 lives;
he had dethroned more than one half of the
kinigs
of
Europe; he had disposed of kingdoms at his wil ; all
nations had been under the control of his decrees; he
had commanded more than two millions of veteran sol-
diers; the treasures of the four quarters of the globe lay
at his feet. "
Yet he shall come to his end, and none
shall help him." How soon the tale of his end is told!
A breath, and his end is come; a vapor, and he is gone.
O God! the breath of kings is in thy hand; thy word
goeth forth, and it is done; thy decree passeth, and it
stands fast.. "He shall como to his end, and none shall
help him." Where are those kin that courted his al-
liance? Where the twent millzms of French who
idolized him as a god? Where are those two millions
of veteran soldiers whose bodies had been used as ram-
partsto mount him to glory 2 Where are his five breth-
ren who sat in the seat of kings by his power? Where
is his mother, made a rich dowager by his munificence ?
Where, 0 where is the empress Maria and tht?
108 ucnrnvrr.
kingofltnly? "Asdnone shall helpim."
¥;'s?%onapartewas
bythe British, ahsr he had
himselfintotheir hamhcarriedaprisonertotheisand
of St.Helena, in the Atlantic Ocean, where he died
Lnlexille. "" He shall come to his end, and none shall
ep im.
Bythishist thek1ngs` oftheearthnmyleangthat
God can, withoprgrfectease, when the settime shall come,
break them and their
kixliidoms
to pieces, so that the wind
may carry them away
'
e chad; that no place shall be
ibund for them.
I shall now examine the remainder of Gabriel's mes-
sage, contained in Daniel xii. 1, "
And at that time shall
Michael stand up, the great Prince which standeth for
the children of thy people." Michael, in
,
must mean Christ; he is the great Prince, Prince
of rinces.
'lghe time here spoken of is when
Bon;`purte
shall
come to his end, and none to help him. his was in
the latter part of the year A. D. 1815. There are two
things for which Christ stands
:gr
for his people to ac-
complish; one is their iaith, an the other their judg-
ment. Jer. iii. 13. Now, it is evident he did not then
stand up in
fludgment;
therefore I shall choose the
former, that e stood up to plead the cause of his
people, to restrain backsliders, and to add to the church
of God many who should be saved. And blessed he
his holy name, he accomplished his purpose; for in the
years
1816, 17, 18, more
Keople
were converted to the
axth of Jesus than had een for thirty years before.
Almost. and I know not but every town in these states
was visited with a shower of mercy, and hundreds and
thousands, yea, tens of thousands, were born into the
invisible
kixfdom
of the dear Redeemer, and their
names reco ed among the members of the church of
theiirst born. This has lasted in agreatmeaaurefor
20
years, and has spread over a
large share of the
Chnstian world; even the islands of the sea have lifted
ui
their voices to God, and the wildemess has bloomed
li e the rose, and the heathen have seen of his salva-
tion. The gnooofGod hasdistilled nponuslikeths
CHRISTY! sxcezm comma 109
morning dew, and like showers upon a thirsty soil.
Surely this must be by the power of Michael, the
great Prince of the covenant. "And there shall be a
time of trouble, such as there never was since there
was a nation, even to that same time." This time of
trouble is yet in fiiturity; but is hanging, as it were,
over our heads, ready to break upon us in tenfold
vengeance, when the angel of the gospel, who is now
flying throu h the midst of heaven, shall seal the last
child of God in their foreheads. And when the fodr
angels, who are now holding the fbur winds, that it
blow not on the sea nor on the land, shall cease their
holding; when the angel, standing on the sea and land,
shall lift his hand to heaven and swear by him that
liveth forever and ever, that time shall be no longer, or,
as it might, and, perhaps, ought to have been translated,
"that there should be no
longer delay ;" that is, God
would wait no _longer for repentance, no longer to be
gracious; but his spirit would take its flight from the
world, and the grace of God would cease to restrain
men. He that is filthy will be filthy stilL Mankind
will, for a short season, give loose to all the oorrupt
passions of the human heart. No laws, human or
divine, will be re arded; all authority will be trampled
under foot; anarciy will be the order of govemments,
and confusion fill the world with honor and despair.
Murder, treason, and crime, will be common law, and
division and disunion the only bond of fellowship.
Christians will be persecuted unto death, and dens and
caves of the earth will be their retreat. All things
which are not eternal will be shaken to pieces, that
that which cannot be shaken may remain. And this, if
I am
right in my calculations, will begin on or before
A. D. 1&39. "And at that time thy people shall be
delivered, every one
that shall be found written in the
book." Now is come salvation indeed. The people
of God are now to be delivered from outward foes and
inbred lusts, from the corruptions of the grave and the
vileness of the flesh. Every one, the poor and despised
child of God, will then be delivered when he- makes up
his jewels.
"
Andlrgany
of them that sleep in the dust
110 ucruax vrx.
oftheearth shall awake,
sometoeverlsstilig life,aml
some to shame and everlasting
contencgpf."
his verse
brinvs us down to the resurrection the dead, when
the dust will give up the bodies of the saints, and they
shall awake to everlasting life, when death shall be
finally conquered, and the grave resign up her captive
saints to victory and lory. The
angel
also mentions
the resurrection of tlge wicked, an speaks of their
slhamf angmeverlastiing contempt.
Hdeadviflls
not in
etai on
`
secon resurreetion,as itwastoo
painful for thought, yet tells enough to leg. the wicked
unbeliever know his awful doom, and is silent. "And
they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the
iirmament; and they that turn many to righteousness
as the stars forever and ever." This verse needs no
comment; it is a beautiful
fiirre
of the righteous in
glory, and the durability of t hap
'
ess in the in-
Esiblci rigid immotxitlal ki:£,domdo;';}1o£Zl';BuIt, thou, O
anie,s ut up e wo an oo even to
the time of the end." Some have taken occasion, from
these words, to say, that this prophecy was to be shut
up and sealed, that none
might understand it until the
end. If it was so, why give lt to Daniel at all? Why
note it in the Scripture of truth? Why
give
to us the
same instruction which made Daniel un erstand what
should befall the people of God in the latter day ? But
the plain and obvious meaning of the first part of this
verse is, But thou, O Daniel, close up your prophecy,
and set your seal to the truth of it, for at "
the time of
the end
manighall
run to and fi'o;" that is, at the time
of the end means of travel would be greatly ex-
tended, so that many would travel into all parts of the
earlth,
and would
anizreasiaeiln kngvgeglge
of
places, men,
nn `n "An now s a. e increased. Can
any Lhrhpitcy be more litergy fulfilled than this? The
increase of
travetliland thgnaieans
of
convtelyance, anddthe
improvement in a arts sciences at e resent ay,
have astonished the projectors themselves? But if it
should mean holy things, then look at the great number
of missionaries sent into
uglidparts
of our world There
are but few nations, civ'
`
or barbuous, Christian or
cnarsr's slcon counts. lll
heathen, but what are visited by the professed ministers
of Christ, and knowled e ofthe word of God has in-
creased. And within giirty years, the Bible has been
translated into one hundred and nity languages, more
than three times the number of all languages that had
received a
trlnslation during 1800 years before. Mil-
lions of copie of the Bible have been circulated within
the thirty years past, where thousands only had been
circulated before. "Then I, Daniel, looked, and be-
hold, there stood other two, the one on this side of the
.bank of the river, and the other on that side of the bank
of the river, and said to the man clothed in linen, which
was upon the waters of the river, How
long shall it be
to the end of these wonders?
"
Here Damel saw the
two holy ones inquiring of the man clothed in linen,
which stood
iidpon
the waters of the river. This man is
the same as ichael standing up for the children of thy
people. The reason I assign rs, he is clothed in linen.,
which shows he is the
highdpgiest
for the people of
God. It is the same ange t John describes, Rev.
3. 1-6. This angel is represented as
being themes-
senger of the covenant, b having a rainbow on his head.
He was clothed with a chaud pure and white like linen.
He, too, had a little book open, showing what he should
do, a
eeing with our explanation, spreading the gospel
for tile last time through the world, standing one
foot on the sea, and the other on the earth, to keep
down the power of anti-Christ, who sits on many waters
Rev. xvii. 1, 15, and the power ofthe kings ofthe earth,
until the wholeelect should be sealed. See Rev. vii.
1-3. And that this Angel is the Mediator is evident.
And now he closes up the mediatorial kingdom, when
he says, Rev. x. 6, "That there should be time no
longer," or, as some translate it, that there should be no
longer delay, which must of course have one of two
meanings-either God will no longer delay his judg-
ment, or he will no
longer wait to be gracious. See
next verse, and 2 Peter iii. 9. Take either one or both
positions, and it proves my object, that a.
part of the
45 years, the history of which we are now
considering,
is taken up in spreading the gospel, and bringing the
112 Lscruxx vu. _
last remnant into Christ's fold. "
For this gospel of the
kingdom shall be preached in all the world as a witness
unto all nations; and then shall the end come;" Matt.
xxiv. 14. But the question, How long to the end of
these wonders? means to the end of the reign of the
beast, which the world wondered after. Rev. xiii. 3,
7th verse,
"
And I heard the msn clothed in linen,
which was upon the waters of the river, when he held
up his right hand and his left hand unto heaven." This
languafre shows us
plainly, that it is the same angel
which fohn saw in Rev. x. 1. 1--7. And the same time
is indicated in Revelation as in Daniel. Here in
Daniel it is in the last 45 years, and in Revelation
immediately preceding the time when the mystery of
God shall be finished, all that had been declared by his
servants, the prophets, the whole prophecies would be
accomplished. "And sware by him that liveth forever,
that it shall be for a time, times, and a halfl" This is
the same
length of time given in Daniel vii. 25, which
is there given as the reign of the little horn. It is also
the same time which is given in Rev. xi. 2. Forty-two
months, (three years and a
halh) to give the holy city to
be trodden under foot. Again, the same time is given,
Rev. xi. 3, for the two witnesses to
prophesy, clothed in
sackcloth, 1260 days. Also, Rev. xii. 6, 14, for the
church in the wilderness, and,
nfain,
in Rev. xiii. 5,
where the anti-Christian beast ha his delegated
power
to continue for-ty~two months. All these times en ed in
A. D. 1798, as we
may
hereaher show; when the 45
years began to accomp ish the things which I have been
attending to in this lecture. "And when he shall have
accomplished to scatter the power of the holy people,
all these things shall be finished."
This brings us down to our text, and gives ns another
important and conclusive sign by which we may know
we live on the eve of finishing the prophecies, and on
the threshold of the immortal and etemal state. Let. us
be wise, then, and secure an interest in the inheritance
among the just, that when we fail on earth, we ma be
received into everlasting habitations prepared for than
who love Christ.
'cnarsrls sxcoim comme. 118
But the last si ,"the scattering of the holy people ;"
a part of the persrdus times. How are
they to be scat-
ered? I answer, By the errors of the anti-Christian
abomination, and the lo heres and lo theres, by dividing
the people of God intoparties, divisions and subdivisions.
And methinks I hear you say,
"
Surely these things
are already accomplished." Yes, you are right, in part,
but not to its entent; the sects are all divided now, but
not crumbled to
pieces; some are subdivided, but not
scattered The time is soon coming when father will
be against the son, and son `nst the father. Yea, the
sects are all divided now. aglresbyterians are divided
into Old and New School, and then again into Perfec-
tionists.
Cox'igreg'ationalists
are divided between Or-
thodox and nitarian, old and new measures, Union-
ists, &c. Methodists are divided between Episcopal
and Protestant. Baptists are divided between old and
new measures, Antimasons, Campbellites, open and
close communion, Src. &c. Quakers are divided be-
tween Orfhodox and Hicksites; and thus
might
we
go
on and name the divisions and subdivisions o all sects
who have taken Christ for their captain.
And now let me sum up in short what we have
proved
to you in this discourse. And iii-st, I showed the
en?
of time our history would take up, viz., 45 years. y
the numbers given in Daniel xii. ll-13, his 1290 days,
begiimilnlg
when the ten kings, represented by the' ten
toes in ebuchadnezzar's dream, and ten horns in Dan-
iel's vision, should be converted to the Christian faith,
and the
daily)
sacrifice abomination taken out of the
way, viz., _A. .
508, which would end us in 1798, when
the Pope lost his power to reign over the kings and
tram le on the holy peo le, and the abomination of
desoation ceased his civilp reign, by being deprived of
his civil power by Bonaparte. I then showed you that
the number 1335 days, beginning at the same time as
the 1290 days, viz. A. D. 508, would end in 1843, at the
resurrection, for Daniel would stand in his lot at the end
of these days. And you have undoubtedly noticed that
this brou ht us to the same year that Dan1el's whole
number,
§300,1l6r¢;ughtus, which is forty-live years, the
114 Lscruu vn.
gitfergnce betgeen tihe tzg Tlambers, 1290
l7:!§. I
en e
at anie xi. , gave you history' of
Bonapa.¥t;,nh1s wonderful career of conquest and wer,
and his final end.
Ithentgaveyou the history of
sts.ndin§ up, and the re ormotion that followed in the
ears 815, 16, 17, even down to the present time.
¥l'hen the unfulfilled prophecy which must come soon
upon us, the troublous times. Next we came to the
time of the deliverance of the people of God, every
one that sleep in the dustof the earth, and the resmrec-
tion. Then the angel
ogave
us a few signs which would
happen in the course this time, such as the running
to and fro, the increase of knowledge, the nation
beg
restrained from preventing the
gospel being preach ,
and scattering
theykpower
of the oly people, all which
you have many you witnemed, and can judge for
yourselves whether these things are so.
I shall now leave you for the present; and may you
reflect candidly and seriously on the sub'ect; for many
of you who are now on the earth may live to witness
this fulfilment; and if unprepared then, with what regret
will you loo`k back on
four
present opportunity, and
wish
you
had improve these precious moment: for
the sa vation of your souls, and for the
glen?
of God!
_ge wise,
Odyelgihabimnm ofdthtg eaérth, gr
the Lord
vn comean w' notta.rry,a.u e a o vengeance
will overtake you as a thief in the night; "but the wise
shall understand."
LECTURE VIII.
-_.i.+.__
REV. vlli. 13.
And 1 beheld and heard an angel
dwg through the midst of
heaven,
sayir:§,vvilh
a loud voice, oe, woe, woe, to the in~
habitants of eearth b f th th
`
y reason o e o er voices of the Lrum-
pet of the three angels which are yet to sound.
In prophetical scripture, the sounding of trumpets is
always used to ilenote the downfall of some empire, na-
tion, or
place, or some dreadful battle, which may decide
the fate of empires, nations, or places. At the fall of
Jericho, the trumpet was the instrument, in the hand
of the priest of the mighty God of Jacob, which cast
down her walls, destroyed the city, and a curse pro-
nounced against the man that should ever build up her
walls again. Again, the trumpet was the instrument by
which Gideon put to flight the armies of the aliens.
And the prophet Amos says, "Shall a
trumpet be blown
in the city, and the
'people
not be afraid ?' Therefore
we may reasonab y conclude that a trumpet is the
harbinger of destructive wars, and the dissolution of
empires, states, or the earth, as the case may be. The
seven u-um ets mentioned in Revelation, the three
lust of which are mentioned in our text, indicate the
final overthrow of the powers
spoken
of in t.he prophecy.
The four first had their uccomp ishment in the destruc~
tion of the Jews and their dispersion, in the fall of im-
perial Rome, in the overthrow of the Asiatic kingdom,
and in the taking away of Pagan rites and cere-
monies. __
The last three trumpets will claim our attention in
116 mzcruan vm.
this discourse; the first four having their
accom&lish~
ment under Rome Pagan; to the last three under me
Papal. These three trumpets and three woes are a
description of the judgments that God has sent and will
send on this Papal beast, the abomination of the whole
earth. Therefore we see the propriety of the
langnge
of our text, "
Woe, woe, woe, to the inhabitants of e
earth," meaning the worshippers of this Papal beast, the
followers of this abomination. The fifth trumpet alludes
to the rise of the Turkish empire under Ottoman, at the
downfall of the Saracens. Ottoman unitin under his
government the four contending nations of llgahometans,
which had long contended for the wer during the
reign of the Saracen empire, viz., the goaracens, Tartars,
Arabs, and Turks. These, all being by profession Ma-
hometans, were ready to follow an daring leader to
conquer and drive out from Asia (and,even make excur-
sion into Europe) all who professed the Christian faith.
They, having embraced the errors of that fallen star,
Mahomet, whose principles were
proinuliated by con-
quest and the sword, became one and per aps the only
barrier to the spread of the
Palpal
doctrine and power in
the eastern world. Here the oman Church had
lon?
held a powerful sway over the minds and consciences o
the Christian or Greek church in the east, by the aid of the
eastern emperor at Constantinople. But the Turks or
Ottomans, whom the Lord suffered to rise up in Bithynia,
on or near the head waters of the Euphrates, as a
scourge
against this Papal abomination, now became a check to
the Roman power; and from this time we ma reason-
ably date the declension of Papal authority. 'Therefore
on the sounding of the fifth trumpet, Rome Papal be
to show u. weakness which in every succeeding age E:
been more and more manifested, until her civil power
has crumbled to ruin, and her ecclesiastical assumptions
must sink, at the sounding of the seventh trump, to rise
no more forever.
In the description of these trumpets we shall be able
to apply the prophecy, as the writer believes, to those
events designed hy the visimi which John saw.
Rev. ix. 1. "
And the iiith angel sounded, and l law
cams-r's szeoim comms. 117
a sur fall from heaven unto the earth; and to him was
given
the key of the bottomless pit." After the down-
all of` Pagan Rome, and the rise of' the anti-Christian
abomination, Mahomet promulgated a
religion which
evidently came f`rom the bottomless pit; for it fostered
all the wicked passions of' the human heart, such as war,
murder, slavery, and lust.
'
2d verse, "And he opened the bottomless pit, and
there arose a smoke out of the pit as the smoke of a
great fumace; and the sun and the air was darkened by
reason of the smoke of the pit." The figures used in
this text are, the bottomless pit, which denote the theo-
ries of' men or devils, that have no foundation in the
word of God. Smoke denotes the errors from such doc-
trine, which serve to blind the eyes of men, that they.
cannot see the truth. .Hs the smoke
ga great furnace
shows the great extent or eifect of' is error over the
world. The nm denotes the ospel, which is the great
luminary of the moral world The air denotes the
moral influence on the mind, which is commonly called
`
. As air supports or gives to the lungs animation
in ge
physical world, so does the piety of the heart to`
the mora .
This, then, is the true sentiment of' this
passpxge.
And
by reason of the Mahometan errors which wo d be be-
lieved or followed by a
great multitude, the gospel and
the pious influence of' the same would he in a
great
measu'e hid or lost to the world.
3d verse,
"
And there came out of the smoke locusts
upon the earth; and unto them was
given power, as the
scorpions of the earth have power." By these locusta I
understand armies. See Joel, lst and 2d chapters.
Therefore I should read this te'xt thus: And there camo
out from these Mahometan followers large armies, which
should have great power to execute the 'udgments of
God on this anti-Christian beast, which llad filled the
earth with her abominations.
4th verse,
"
And it was commanded them that they
should not hurt the grass ofthe earth, neither any green
thing
neither any tree, but only those men which have
not e seal 'of God in their foreheads." Bygran, green
`
u
118 Llcruu vm.
things, and trees, Ps. lxxii. 16, Hosea xiv. 8, I under-
stand the true church, or people of God. By thou sues
having mttlie seal
q§God,&,c.,I
understand the ant.i~
Christian church, or apal Rome. Then this would be
the sense: And it was commanded them that they
should not hurt the true church, or people of God, but
only the anti-Christian beast, or powers subject to her.
5th verse,
"
And to them it
waglgiven
that they should
not kill them, but that they sh d be tormented live
months; and their torment was as the torment of a
scorpion, when he striketh a man." To H11 is to de-
stroy. Five months is in
prophecai
150
gears.
To lor-
menl asa B001?'01,&»C.,lB to m e su den incursions
and irruptions into the country, &c. Then this is the
sentiment tio me conveyed in the text: And the Turkish
armies would not have power to destroy the Papal pow-
ers for 150 years, but would make sudden and quick
incursions into their territories, and harass and perplex
the nations under the Papal controL
6th verse,
"
And in those days shall men seek death,
and shall not tind it.; and shall desire to die, and death
shall flee from them." About this time the Greek
church, in Constantinople, was so harassed by the Pa-
pal authority, that it gave rise to a
saying among them,
that they "
had rather see the Turkish turban on the
throne of the Eastem Empire, than the Pope's tiara."
And
any
one who has read the
history
of the 14th cen-
tury, wi 1 see that this text was literal accomplished
7th verse,
"
And the shapes of the locusts were like
unto horses prepared unto battle; and on their heads
were, as it were, crowns like gold, and their faces were
as the faces of men." In this verse we have a descrip-
tion of the Turkish armies. In the first place they are
represented as
being all horsemen. This was true with
the Turks, and no other kingdom since Christ's time,
that we have any knowledge ot, whose armies were all
horsemen. They wore on their heads yellow turbans,
which can
only apply to the Turks, looking like crowns
of gold.
Sth verse,
"
And they had hair as the hair of women,
and their teeth were as the teeth of lions." They won
cnr.rs'r's sacozm counra. 119
long hair attached to their turbans, and they fought with
javelins like the teeth of lions.
9th verse,
"
And they had breastplates, as it were
breastplates of iron; and the sound of their wings was
as the sound of chariots of many horses running to bat-
tle." By their breastplates I understand shields, which
the Turks carried in their battles; and history tells us
that when they charged an enemy, they made a noise
upon them like the noise of chariot wheels.
10th verse, "And they had tails like unto scorpiorrs,
and there were
stings in their tails; and their power was
to hurt men tive months." The Turkish horsemen had
each a cimeter which hung in a scabbard at their waist,
that they used in close combat after they had discharged
their javelins, with which they were very expert, sever-
ing a man's or even a horse's head at a blow. And
from the time that the Ottoman power or Turkish em-
pire was Iirst established in Bithynia, until the downfall
of the Greek or Eastern
Empire,
when the Turks took
Constantinople, was five prop etic months, or one hun-
dred and fifty years.
'
11th verse,
"
And
they
had a king over them, which is
the angel of the bottom ess pit, whose name in the He-
brew tongue is Abaddon, but in the Greek tongue hath
his name Apollyon." The Turkish govemment had a
k' when they be n, as before mentioned, and he was
al-fiilower of the Bgaahometan faith, and truly a servant
or messenger of this doctrine ofthe bottomless pit. The
name of their first king, who is styled in history the foun-
der of the Turkish empire, was Othoman or Ottoman,
from whom the empire took its name, and has been call-
ed to this day the Ottoman empire. And great has been
the destruction which this ovemment has executed upon
the world; and well may tgis empire be styled Destroyer,
in prophecy the signification of Abaddon or Apollyon.
12th verse,
"
One woe is past; and behold, there come
two woes more hereafter." This closes the fifth trumpet
and the tirst woe, commencing at the foundation of the
Turkish empire in Bithynia, in the year A. D. 1298, and
lasting five prophetic months, or 150 years, which carries
us down to the year A. D. 1448. When we take into
I
120 Lacmuaa vm.
view the object and design of God in sending this judg-
ment or
scourge upon the men who have not the seal of
God on their tbreheads; the anti-Christian beast, who
profess to be Christians, but are not; when we
compare
the history of those times with the prophecy-we have
been examining, a.nd the events which have transpired
concerning the Ottoman empire, with the descriptive
character given of them in this prophecy,-we cannot, I
think, hesitate for a moment to apply the fulfilment of
this trumpet and woe, to these e'v¢nls,ti1nz, and place; and
must be led to admire the agreement between the proph-
ecy and fulfilment, and tio believe this book of Revela-
tion to be indited by the unerring wisdom of the Divine
Spirit; for no human forethought could have so exactly
described these events, dress, manners, customs, and
mode ot' warfare 1200 years beforehand, except the wis-
dom of God had assisted him. And if these things are
revealed by God himself unto us, surely no one will dare
to suy that it is non-essential whether we believe this
part of the revealed will of God or not. Shall God
speak and man disregard it? Forbid it, O Father; and
let us have "ears to hear what the Spirit saith to the
churches."
We shall now follow the revelation of God into the
sixth trumpet and second woe; and may we have the
Spirit of God to assist us and lead our minds into the
truth ol' these things.
13th verse,
"
And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard
a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is
licfore God," 14th verse,
"
Saying to the sixth angel
which had the trumpet, Loose the tiiur angels which are
bound in the great river Euphrates." By t_he sounding
of the trumpet, I understand the commencing of those
judgments which were to be poured out upon the earth
under this trumpet; and by the "voice t`rom the tour
horns of the golden altar," the agreement ol' all thc pow-
ers ofheuven and earth to execute the design ol' God in
this thingl By loosing the four angels which are bound
in the great river Euphrates, I understand that God was
now about to suller the four principal nations ot' which
the Ottoman empire was composed, which had invain
»
cnms'r's sxcoxn comme. 121
attempted to subdue the Eastern Empire at Constantino-
ple, and made but little progress in conquering Europe,
now to take Constantinople, and to overrun and subdue
one third part of Europe, which was the fact about the
middle of the fifteenth century.
15th verse,
"
And the four angels were loosed, which
were prepared for an hour, and a
day, and a month, and
a
year, to slay the third
part
of men." The four
angels,
we may reasonably conc ude, are a representation o the
four nations that had embraced the Mahometan religion,
and were now under the control of the Ottoman, viz.,
Turks, Tartars, Arabs, and Saracens. The time ex-
pressed in the last-mentioned verse is 391 years and 15
days.
"
To slay the third part of men,"'is to destroy and
conquer one third
part
of the governments or kingdoms
of which the Papal east had the control, which was true
in the end.
'
'
16th verse,
"
And the number of the army of the horse-
men was two hundred thousand thousand; and I heard
the number of them." In this verse the precise number
of the army of horsemen is given, for John tells us "he
heard the number of' them." And if we should under-
stand the prophet to mean, as some suppose he does,
200,000, multiplied by a 1000, then the sum total would
be 2G0,000,000, which would be more men than were
ever on our earth at one time capable of bearing arms;
thereforel believe this is not the meaning ofthe prophet,
neither do I think that it was a succession of armies dur-
ing the whole period ot' 391 years, making the sum total
of 200,000,000, for this, too, would be incredible; for nl-
lowing a
standing army of 15,385,000 to be recruited
every 30 years, it vould only make the two hundred
millions; and this sum would be more than five times the
number of all the
standing armies in the known world.
And from these considerations Ihave for myself given
this construction, that the prophet John heard the num-
ber of 200,000 repeated, or twice told, which would
make an army of 400,000 horsemen; and this would not
be incredible. And what is to me
strong proof of the
fact is, that the
historly
informs us that Mahomet II. came
against Constantinop e about the year A. D. 1450, with
1]
12 utcriraa vm.
an.army of4(l),000° horsemen, and alia along siege
took tnecityinthe year 1-|53,anddestroyed theEa¢-
em Empire, which had stood more than ten centuries
from its foundation by Constantine.
17th verse: "Andthuslaawthehorses inthe vision,
and them that sat on them, having bresstplates of tire,
and of jacinth and brixmtone; and the heads of the
horsai were as the heads of lions, and out of their
mouths issued fire, and smoke, andbrinmene." 18th
verse, "By these three was the third
gertofrnen killed,
by the fire, and by the smoke, and y the brinmtone,
which issued out of their mouths." 19th verse, "For
their power is in their month, and in their tails; for their
tails were like 'unto serpents, and had heads, and with
them they do hurt." In these verses which we have
now read, we are plainly informed that it was an army
of horses, and men on them, which John saw in the vis-
ion. And the implements and manner of lighting, such
as the trapping of their horses, and the instniments ol?
fensive and defensive, gunpowder and guns, are as ex-
actly described as any person could describe it without
knowing the name
by
which we describe it at the pres-
ent day. Fire, smo e, and brimstone, would be the
most visible com nent parts of gunpowder. Fire and
smoke we should"see, and brimstone we should smell.
And who ever saw an army of horsemen engaged in an
action but would think of John's description, "out ot'
their mouths issued fire, and smoke, and brimstone," and
in the breech of the guns were bullets, "like heads,
and with these they do hurt"? Every part of this de-
ncription is exactly applicable to an army of horsemen
with tire-anus; and what is equally strong in the evi-
dence is, that guns and tire-arms were invented but n
short time previous to this trump-sounding, and the
'l'urkn claimed the honor (if honor it can be called) ot'
inventing glmpowder and guns; and it is equally evi-
dent by the history that guns were first used bythe
'l'urkn ut the taking of Constantinople, they having one
single cummn that took 70 yoke of oxen to draw it at
the liege, as says Dr. Gill on this passage.
"
Some author: may 1,6111,611
cna1s'r's srcorm comme. 123
20th verse,
"
And the rest of the men which were
not killed by these plagues yet repented not of the
works of their hands, that they should not worship dev-
ils, and idols of
gpld,
and silver, and brass, and stone,
and of wood, whic neither can see, nor hear, nor walk."
21st verse, "Neither repented they of their murders,
nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of
their thefts." In these verses, we have the character
of the persons or
government on whose account these
plagues were sent. In the first place, they are repre-
sented as idolaters, as worshippin devils, idols of
glold,
&.c., full of murder, sorceries, Eamication, and eh.
This exactly agrees with the description John has given
of the "woman sitting on the scarlet-colored beast, full
of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten
horns. And the woman was arrayed in purple and scar-
let color, and decked with gold, and precious stones, and
pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abomina-
tions and lilthiness of her fornication. And upon her
forehead was a name written, Mystery, Babylon the
Great, the Mother qf Harlota, and the abomination; qf the
earth." So we see that the filth and sixth trumpets, and
the two first woes, were sent as the judgments of God
upon this anti-Christian beast, and clearly shows the
decline of the power which she had exercised over the
kin of the earth and the people of God for more than
e' if centuries, to the commencing of the sixth trumpet,
wlgen the Turks were let loose upon those kingdoms un-
der the control of Papacy, conquered all Asia and about
one third part of Europe, and were in the end the means
of o ning the eyes oi' many of the inhabitants of the
worldato see that the Pope's pretension of being the vice-
gerent of God was not well founded; for, if he could
not foresee and resist the inroads of the Turks,-that
infidel na.tion,- surely he could not perform those great
miracles which he pretended to perfomn in order to su
port his ecclesiastical and civil power: and individual;
and afterwards nations, be to disregard his authority,
excommunications, and bug;-Funtil his power is now but
a. little more than a bisho of Rome.
Here we see the wondler-working ways of our God,
124 nrcruu vm.
who, in wisdom and providence, suffers the corrupt and
iniidel nations of the earth to puil down each other, and
to bring about his purposes and designs, and will event-
ually destroy all the kingdoms of the earth, by such
means, and in such ways, as the prophets have foretold;
and whoever lives until the year 1839 will see the final
dissolution of the Turkish empire, for then the sixth
.rumpet will have finished its sounding, which, if I am
correct, will be the final overthrow of the Ottoman
power.
And then will the seventh trump and last woe
egin, under which the kingdoms of the earth and the
anti-Christian beast will be destroyed, the were of
darkness chained, the world cleansed, and tli; church
purilied.
See the 10th chapter of Revelation, 5th, 6th, and 7th
verses,
"
And the
ana?
which I saw stand upon the sea
and upon the earth li d up his hand to heaven." This
is the angel of the covenant, the great Mediator. See
the first verse,
"
And I saw another mi hty angel come
down from heaven, clothed with a cloui" So is Christ
to come in the clouds with power and
gent glory.
"
And a rainbow was
upon
his head." his s ows
plainly that it is Christ; or the rainbow is a token of
the covenant. "And his face was as it were the sun."
The same as when he was
tm-ans6£|red,
Matt. xvii. 2,
"And his feet as
pillars of tire." e Rev. i. 15, "
His
feet like unto tine brass, as if they burned in a fumace."
Surely this must be Christ. "And he had in lus hand
a little book open." None could open the book but the
lion of the tribe of Judah-another strong
proof
that
the angel in Rev. x. 5 is Christ. And who ut. Christ
could stand upon the sea and upon the earth, and lift
"up his hand to heaven, and swear by Him that livcth
forever and ever, who created heaven and the things
that therein are, and the sea and the things which are
therein, that there should be time no longer"? that is,
pospel
or mediatorial time should cease. No more time
or
mercy; no more Spirit to strive with you, sinner; no
more means of grace; no more repentance unto life ; no
more
hopes of heaven; for Jesus has swom by himsell§
because he could swear by no greater, that your day ot'
cnars'r's smcozm comma. 125
probation "
should be no
longer." For "he that is filthy
sha.l1 be filthy still." The Bndegroom has come, and shut
to the door. I know, sinner, you will then cry, Lord, Lord,
open unto us; but he will say unto you, Depart from
me, ye workers of iniquit , for I know you not: when I
called to you to open the floor of your hearts, that I might
come in and sup with you, ye reillsed; when I stretched
out my arm all t.he long day of the gospel, ye regarded
it not; Iwill now laugh at your calamity, and mock
when
your
fear cometh. Then will the angel, flying
throng the midst of heaven, cry, with a. loud voice,
Woe, woe, woe to the inhabitants of the earth; for,
when the last woe is pronounced, and "in the days of
the voice of the seventh an el, when he shall begin to
sound, the mystery of God sgould be finished, as he hath
declared to his servants the prophets." "
The second woe
is past, and behold the third woe cometh quickly. And
the seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices
in heaven, saying, '1'he kingdoms of this world are be-
come the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ., and
he shall reign forever and ever," Rev. xi. 14, 15. By
these passages we leam that, wheia the sixth trumpet
has done sounding, when the second woe is past, then
the third woe comes quickly. The seventh trump be-
ins to sound; the mystery of God is finished -
all that
gas been spoken by the prophets, that is, all that con-
cems the kingdom of Christ; for then will he brought
to pass the saying, Death is swallowed up in victory;
for, when the last trum et shall sound, the dead in
Christ shall be raised: "
For as in Adam all died, even
so in Christ shall all be made alive." "But every man
in his own order. Christ the Hrst fruits, afterwards they
that are Christ's at his
coming."
"The first man is of
the earth, earthy; the secon Man is the Lord from
heaven." "
As is the earthy, such are they also that are
earthy; and as is the heavenly, such are they also that
are heavenly." "And as we have home the image of
the earthy, we shall also bear the image ofthe heavenly.
Now, thisl say, brethren, that desh and blood cannot
inherit the
kingdom of God; neither doth corruption in-
herit
incorrupglolk"
"
Behold, I show you a
mystery:
l
U8 uw-run vm.
we shall not all sleep, but we shnll all be changed, in I
moment, in the twinkling of an
eye, al the last trump ,
for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised
incorruptible, and we shall be
changed;
for this cor-
ruptible must put on incorruption, an this mortal must
put on immortality."
"
Then will be brought to passtho
saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory,"
1' Cor. xv. 22-54.
LECTIlR.E rx.
lhzv. 1. 20.
The mystery ofthe seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand,
and the seven golden candlesticks. The seven stars are the an#-
glels
of the seven churches; and the seven candleslicks which
ou
sawest are the seven churches.
I'r has generally been believed that the seven churches
to whom the angel instructed John to write, were seven
dilferent and distinct churches in Asia, and by almost
all of our commentators at the present day are under-
stood to mean seven literal churches. But your speaker
is forced, from the reasons which will hereafter be pro-
duced, to believe that these seven churches of Asia are
to be understood. in a
figurative sense, alluding to seven
periods of the church militant, during the Christian dis-
pensation, down to the first resurrection, and the com-
mencing of the glorious reign of Christ on the earth, com-
monly cnlled The Millennium. If this view of the subject
should prove to be the correct exposition ofthe text, how
important und interesting is the subject to us who live in
the last stage of the church! Then we who live at this
day, are
particularly, and solemnly and
auZ`ully,
admon-
ished in what is said by Christ to the churc ofthe Laod-
iceans, that church corresponding with our stage oi'
the church immediately previous to the commencing of
the millennial glory; and how necessary that we should
know that these admonitions do most deeply concern us!
This view of the subject will then claim our first at-
tention. Were the seven churches used as a
figure of
the whole Christian dispensation, or were they not ? I
5
L
128 Lavruaa It
answer, In my humble opinion, they were. Because,
first, the book of Revelation does evidently contain I
prophecy of things which did not concern'those seven
literal churches in Asia; for those churches have
log?
since passed away and become extinct; yet the book
Revelation contains prophecies which are daily fulfil-
ling, and have been for eighteen centuries. It is also
said to be a revelation of things which must shortly coqie
to pass. "The revelation of Jesus Christ which God
gave unto him, to show unto his servants things which
must shortly come to pass." Not things that have been.
Yet if Christ is only giving adinonitlory advice to those
seven literal churches, then he is only relating their char-
acters as
they then were, and so far as these churches
were concerned it would cease to be a
prophecy,
and the
very first verse in Revelation would be vio ated.
Aglain,
3d verse,
"
Blessed is he that readeth and they that ear
the words of this prophecy, and keep those thin which
are written therein; for the time is at hand." glVe see
that it is called a pro hecy in this verse, and must al-
lude to the whole booh; but who will pretend that the
three chapters in the
beginning
of Revelation are a.
prophecy, if we understan them as
relatipg
the char-
acter of seven literal churches in Asia o y? None,
none.
Again: the word seven is often used in the word of
God as a
mystical number, meaning the whole, as seven
spirits, seven stars, seven
angels, seven candlesticks,
seven seals, seven trumpets, seven vials, seven thun-
ders, seven
plagues, seven mountains, seven heads, seven
Eyes,
seven homs, seven crowns, seven kings, and seven
urchcs. All these are used in Revelation and apply to
or
concerning the whole Gospel period. Il, then, the
number seven is used so often in this book in a figurative
sense,
may
we not
reasonably suppose that it is so used
in the de ication of this boo to the seven churches in
Asia, and the history of those seven churches be pro-
phetic? for no scripture is given for any private inter-
pretation, and surely the instruction in the introduction
oi' the book carries ns down to the coming of Christ in
the clouds - "
Behold, he cometh with clouds ; and every
cnars'r's smcozm icomrns. 129
eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him; and
all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him; even
so, amen. I am Alpha and Omega, t.he beginning and
the ending, which is, and which was, and which is to
come, the Almighty." And why all this descriptive gran-
deur in the address to these seven churches, if the only
were meant? Surely there were other churches ofyequal
importance at that day. Where were the churches at
Corinth, Cappadocia, Galatia, Thessalonica, Philippi, Col-
losse, Rome, Jerusalem, Bithynia, &.c.? Our text shows
that the seven churches were to be understood in a lig-
urative or mystical sense. "The m stery of the seven
stars which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven
golden candlesticks. The seven stars are the angels of
the seven churches; and the seven candlesticks which
thou sawest are the seven churches." These seven
churches are represented by "
seven lamps." See Zach.
iv. 2, "And said unto me, What seest thou ? And Isaid,
I have looked, and behold a candlestick all of gold, with
a bowl upon the top of it, and his seven lamps thereon,
and seven pipes to the seven lamps which were upon the
top thereof!" These seven lamps are called "the eyes
of the Lord which run to and fro throu h the whole
earth." See Zach. iv. 10. If this is true, ian it readily
follows that the seven churches of Asia are
orrltg
used as
a 'fi ure representing the church "through e whole
earth." Again: the seven lamps, which are the seven
churches, are called the seven spirits of God. Rev. iv.
5, "And there were seven lamps of fire buming before
the throne, which are the seven
spirits
of God." I have
clearly proved, and I think it will e admitted by all, that
the "seven eyes of the Lord," and "the seven spirits of
God," are the seven churches to whom John was di-
rected to write or dedicate his book, the Revelation of
Jesus Christ.
And I will riow show that these comprehended the
whole church throu h the whole earth. See Rev. v. 6,
"
And I beheld, andglo! in the midst of the throne and
of the four beasts, and in the midst ofthe elders, stood a.
lamb as it had been slain, having seven horns, and seven
eyes, which are the "seven spirits of God sent forth into
130 r.sc-run rx.
all the earth." Again: when we compsre the severa-
characteristic marks or events, upon opening the seven
seals, with those marks and instructions to the seven
churches, we shall be led to admire the
beauzy,harmony,
and consistency of the Revelation of Jesus hrist to his
people. And I think the mind will rest satisfied that this
view of the subject is the truth, because itso exactly
agrees with Christ's manner of teaching by parables
when he was with us in the flesh.
Some may inquire, "Why were those seven churches
in Asia used as ti res to represent the church militant
gn
her
severalconrgtionlsto
altiheerad
of her
milittlnt
state ?
"
answer i we ma e owe to answer e | or
wherwardsg) Becauseythe
sianiiication
of the mm of
gose semi churgge? e_ the
spiiit
and
of
eseve peno o ehnst.iancurch,wc e
are
lhrought
forward
tolrepresent,
which we shall atnempi
tos ow mitspro rpace.
I shall now endlahvor to take up the churches in the
order in which they are laid down to us in Revelation
(Read Rev. l-7, inclusive.) lst The word Ernssus,
desirable This is true concerning the tirst
sac
ot'
the church, in the apostles' days, when the Holy host
was given the power to work miracles, and the power to
distinguish between
good
and evil spirits, and when all
were of one heart an one mind, and the canon of the
Holy Scriptures were filling up, and the mspired apostles
were
setting things in order, and establishing churches
throughthe world. Yes, my brethren, these were desirable
times surely. But to roceed : This church is addressed
by the character "
that holdeth the seven stars," the
ministers and servants ot' him who holdeth them "in his
right hand," under his immediate care and control, "
who
walketh in the midst ofthe seven golden candlesticks,"
and has said, where two or three are
gathered together
in his name, there will he be in the midst of them, and
has promised that whatsoever they should ask in his name
it should be granted untn them. He says,
"
I know thy
works." In that day they brought forth fruits meet for
repentance, and they went every where
preaching that
men should repent; and Paul said, when preaching at
cnars'r's smcorm cormw. 131
Athens, "
But now commandeth all men every where to
repent." Yes, all, sa.int or sinner, high or low, rich or
poor; all, all must repent. And O! my brethren, how
much we need these works at the present day! "
Re-
member, therefore, from whence thou art fallen, and re-
pent and do thy first works." Again he
says,
"
I know
thyvlabor."
Did not the apostles labor nig t and day P
2 hess. iii. 8, "
Neither did we eat any man's bread for
nought, but wrought with labor and travail night and day,
that we might not be chargeable to any of you." See 1
Thess. ii. 8, 9, "
So being dfectionately desirous of you,
we were
willing to have imparted unto you, not the gos-
pel of God only, but also our own souls, because ye were
dear unto us. For ye remember, brethren, our labor and
travail; for laboring night and day, because we would
not be chargeable to any of you, we preached unto you
the gospel of God." A 'n he says,
" And thy atience."
This, too, will apply to
tgiilapostles' days. For þÿg"jl
says,
2 Cor. vi. 4, "But in all things approving ourselves as
the ministers of God, in much patience, in afiiictions, in
necessities, in distresses." Also, xii. 12, "
Truly
the
signs of an apostle were wrought
among you in l pa»
tience, in signs, and wonders, and mig ty deeds. And
again the apostle says to
Timothy,
"
But thou hast fully
known my doctrine, manner of
l1fe,Eurpose,faith, long-
sutfering, charity, patience." And w o can read the his-
tory of the first age of the church, but will admit that
works, labor and patience, were prominent features of
that age, and virtues which adomed the Christian church
in its infancy, more than any age since ? "
And how
thou canst not bear them which are evil." Who can
read Paul's instructions to his Corinthian brethren, in 1
Cor. v. 11, without seeing this text fulfilled ? "
But now
I have written unto you not to keep company, if
any
man
that is called a brother [as though such a. one cou d not
be a real brother, but only called so] be a fomicator, or
covetous, or an idolater, or a railer, or a drunkard, or an
extortioner; with such a one no not to eat." And had
the servants of Christ at the present day the power of
the a stles to discern the spirits by which we are
gov-
ernediohow many in this congregation would blush when
132 Lxcruu xx.
"fomioirtor" is mentioned! How many "C0|7d0l|l"
would hide their faces! How many "Molaters" would
how their heads, or "TUHUB" would begin to murmu.r at
the plainness of the speaker! How many "drunkard|"
would not have staggered into this house! And how
many
"
ez'tortioner.r" would have staid at home! O God,
thou knowest. Or who can read the 2d chapter of the
2d epistle of Peter, and John's first epistle, Jude, and
others, and not be convinced that the apostles could not
bear with them that were evil? Again: "Thou hast
tried them which say they are apostles, and are not, and
hast found them liars." This sentence was fultilled in
the apostles' days. Simon Magus, alter he was profess-
edly a disciple of Christ, was found out by Peter to he
in the "gall of bitterness and bonds of iniquity." Hy-
meneus and Alexander, whom Paul delivered to Satan,
that they may learn not to blaspheme. 1 Tim. i. 20.
Also Philetus, Demas, and Alexander the coppersmith,
were all found to be liars, and many others who went out
from them, as the apostle says, because they were not of
them. And how many are there now,
my
brethren, amo
us, who, when tribulation cometh, wil be offended, £5
go out from us! Lord, is it I? "And hast bome, and
hast patience, and for my name's sake hast labored, and
hast not fainted." Yes, my brethren, it was for the nnme
of Jesus, that the primitive Christians bore the persecu-
tions of their day. Acts xv. 25,26, "lt seemed good
unto us to send chosen men unto you, with our beloved
Barnabas and Paul, men that have hazarded their lives
for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ." Acts ix. Ili
"
For I will show him what great things he must suffer
for my name`s sake." Verse 41, "
And they departed lrom
the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were
counted worthy to suffer shame for his .name." And,
may I not inquire, how many of ns are willing; and would
rejoice to suiTer shame for the name of Christ? Perhaps
none. VVe had rather be called Rabbi, Rev., Dr., &c.
Ve are contending' for our nunws at the present day : for
Baptists, Congregationalists, Presbyterinns, hletlimnlists,
Free-wills,Campbellitcs, &c. lt' we do not contend eam-
estly for our sect, they will decrease, and we shall como
cuars'r's sncoim conmw. KB
to nought. And I say, May God speed it; so that you
all may fall on the word of God, and rally ain under
the name of Jesus. But we will proceed wig: our sub-
ject. 4th verse,
"
Neverthelessl have somewhat against
thee, because thou hast left thy first love." Can this be
true? Did the apostolic church, in its purity, so soon
depart from the first principles of the gospel? _Yes, in
Acts xv. 24, "
Forasrnuch as we have heard that certain
which went out from us have troubled you with words,
subverting your souls, saying, ye must be circumcised,
and keep the whole law, to whom we gave no such com-
mandment." Gal. i. 6, "I marvel that ye are so soon
removed from him that called you into the grace of
Christ unto another gospel." 1 Timothy, i. 19, "
Hold-
ing faith and a. good conscience, which some having put
away, concerning faith, have made shipwreck." 2 Tim.
i. 15, "This thou knowest, that all they which are in
Asia are turned away from me." And Paul further says,
iv. 16, "
At my first answer no man stood with me, but
all men forsook me. I pray God lay not this sin to their
charge."
Many more evidences might be brought, to prove that
many, in that early state of the church, did fall away from
the doctrine of grace, which Paul and the apostles taught.
And now, my brethren, how is it with us? `Are we
built on the truth? Have we a.
"
Thus saith the Lord,"
for all we believe and do? Are we built on "
the proph-
ets and apostles, Jesus Christ himself being the chief
corner-stone "? Look well to your foundation-the
dayris coming that will try every man's works.
erse 5, "
Remember, therefore, from whence thou
art fallen, and repent and do the first works, or else I
will come unto thee quickly, and will remove the candle-
stick out of his place, except thou repent." ln this verse
the great Head of the church admonishes the Christians
of their former sins in neglecting the doctrine of grace,
and falling into the popular errors of the day, which I
have before noticed, and wams them of their duty to
repent, which is the first and great command under the
gospel. He also gives them notice, that, except they
repent, he
willeremove
the "desirable" state of the
I
134 uzcruaa ix.
church into the next, which would be a state of trial,
persecution, and poverty.
6th venle, "But this thou hast, that thou hatest the
deeds of the Nicolaitans, which 1 also hate." What the
deeds of the Nicolaitans were, we are not able, from the
word of God, to determine ; but from some things hinted
at by some ancient authors, ve have good reason to be-
lieve that Nicolas, one of the seven deacons, departed
from the doctrine which the apostles taught, and preached
a doctrine which was repugnant to the gospel of Christ,
viz., a
community or plurality of wives, which led Paul
in his instructions to sa ,
"
Let the deacons be the has-
bund of' one wife," 1 'i:im. iii. 12. "He that hath an
ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the churches."
llere we have another evidence, that the branch of the
church at Ephesus was not the only church addressed
in this epistle and prophecy; for, if so, what propriety
in using the word churches, in the plural, when only one
church in Asia was spoken of? No, it could not be
proper, neither would it have been, as it is so used in
every epistle through the whole seven, had not Christ
designed it for all the churches in a certain e. There
is also an admonition contained in these 'Fast-quoted
words, to read, hear, and observe the prophecy now
given by the Spiritto John, the inspired servant of Christ;
and tbr all the churches ofthe age spoken of] to be care-
ful to apply to themselves the admonitions, designed hy
the Holy Spirit for their immediate benefit. "
Po l|i|n
that overcometh will Igive to eat of the tree of life,
which is in the midst of the paradise of God." Ilow
precious is this promise to the faithilil and tried soul,
who places ull }|is hope, and strength, and de .ndenr<=,
on one who is mighty to save, and on one who iz: prom-
ised to brinr him oil' conqueror over all the cnmnics
of grace, and' the powers ol' hell! Yes, and, r-.ore than
all, he has overcome and entered within the veil, as a
tbrerunnor for us who believe. May ve all, bv lhith,
have a right to this tree of life, this pnmdise of (ind.
I will now examine the prophecy to the second church,
which I understand to commence about thc close of the
lint century, and lasted about two hundred yous, until
the days of Constantine, A. D. 312.
cums'r's slzcorm comma. I5
Sth verse, "And unto the angel of the church in
Smyrnn., write." The si iiication of the word Sm
is
myrrh; denoting that Sl: church in this age would be
a
sweet-smelling savor to God, while she was
passing
through the fiery ordeal of persecution and ailiiction,
which always has served to weed out those obnoxious
plants of pride, popularity, self-dependence -the bane
and poison of true faith, piety, and devotion. And O,
my brethren, could we leam wisdom, by what the church
has already suffered in the days of our forefathers, we
should be more humble, the more worldly peace and
prosperity we enjoyed. For it is only in the midst of
persecution and trial, that the church manifest great pu-
rity of doctrine or life. How well, then, might this age
of the church be compared to m h, when she must
have been separated from worldly Jhblnors, avarice, pride,
pularity, and hypocrisy, when the h rite and world-
`
had no motives to unite with and destroy the union
of e brotherhood, and when the hireling shepherd could
expect no fleece, that would suit his cupidit , to filch
from the lambs of Christ! "These thinvs saitli the first
and the last, which was dead and is alive." In these
words we learn the character speaking to the church.
It is no less than the mighty God, the everlastin Fa-
ther, the Prince of Pesce._ "I know
thysworks,
angtrib-
ulation, and poverty." Now, their wor were about to
be tried; although God knew them that were his, yet he
designed to manifest to a world who would be faithful
even unto death, and to show that pure and undefiled re-
ligion would bum with a brighter flame in tribulation
and poverty, and the richness of that faith, which would
brin od' the true Christian conqueror over the powers
of tge world, the temptations of Satan, and corruptions
of the flesh. "But thou art rich." Yes, brethren, the
true and genuine Christian is nkh. For charity can suf-
fer long in tribulation, and the spirit of Christ will make
us forsake all for his sake, and endure poverty for the
name of Jesus. "
And I know,"
says
Christ, "
the blas-
phemy of them which say they are ews, (that is, people
of God,) and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan."
Although Christ knew the hypocrites and false profes-
I
I
1% Lacruan rx.
sors that had rushed into his visible kingdom during a
time ot' prosperity that the church had experienced in its
Ephesian state, or
apostolic age, yet now the time had
come, when that candlestick must be removed, and the
next age of the church or candlestick be set up; and the
same means used by God to
purify
the silver would
purge out the dross, so that the
king
om would
again
be
cleansed of its worldly, hypocritica ,
and false pro essors.
10, "
Fear none of those things which thou shalt suf-
fer." The true child of God need not fear to suffer for
Christ's sake, for the sufferings of this present evil world
will work out for us a far more exceeding and etemal
weight of
glory.
"
Behold, the devil shall cast some of
you into prison, that ye may be tried, and ye shall have
tribulation ten da s." The devil in this verse means Pa-
gan Rome. See hav. xii. 9, 17, "
And the great dragon
was cast out, that old serpent, called the devil." "
And
the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make
war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the com-
mandments of God, and have the
testimouy
of Jesus
Christ." How exactly was this
prolphecy
ful illed in the
days of Nero, Domitian, and other oman emperors, and
how faithful has history been to record the ten persecu-
tions between the da s of John's prophecy and the em-
peror Constantine! fn these ten persecutions of the Ro-
man govemment, in the text called ten days, we learn by
the history ot' those days thc church suffered a
great di-
minution in numbers by apostasy and fear; yet those
that remained steadfast made up in graces what they lost
in numbers; and it was
truly u time ot' trial, for many
were cast into prison, and many suffered torture and
death, rather than to otler sucrilices to their Pagan gods.
"
Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a
crown of life." Yes, my brethren, ifwe can believe the
history of those days, many of the dear disciples of Christ
were faithtiil unto death, and have long enjoyed the
crown of lite promised in this prophecy.
ll, '°
Ile that hath an ear, lt-1 him hear what the Spirit
saith tn the churches. lie that ovc-rcometh shall not bo
hurt ofthe second death." Here, then, we find some of
those characters who will have part in the firstreaunec-
caarsr's szcozm comme. 137
tion, the blessed martyrs who _were slain for the witness
of Jesus. See Rev. xx. 4. And in this
passage we are
again
commanded to hear what the Spirit szuth to the
c urches-all, all who have cars; not the branch in
mtyrnaonly, but all who have ears. We have lon been
in e habit of giving away Scripture to others when it
belongs to us and our children; lét us therefore apply it
home.
12, "And to the angel of the church in Pergamos
write." Very earthy elevated is the ligniiication of the
word Pergamos ;'and this church represents the age of
Constantine, which lasted more than two hundred years,
until the rise of anti-Christ, from A. D. 312 until A. D.
538. During this age the church became very earthy,
having her worldly policy, and, like the church in the
present day, attending more to the outward concerns,
and the worldl
'
part of religion, than to inward piety
and
graces of the spirit, looking more for_/brms and cere-
momea, than for the lyk, power, and of the religion
of Jesus, spending much of their time in building ele ant
chapels,
gorgeous
temples, high places to educate Sieir
ministry, an adorning them with pictures and pleasant
things, and fillinrr the hearts of their worshippers with
high, popular, and haughty notions. Yes, my brethren,
the age of trial was
gone ; the holy and secret aspirations
of piety fled away, and, now she had obtained an earthly
emperor, her divine Master was forgotten. And here
was the falling away mentioned by Paul, 2 Thess. ii. 3,
"
Let no man deceive you by any means; for that day
shall not come except there come a fallinfr away first,
and that man of sin be revealed, the son 0? perdition."
This, then, was the age that prepared the church to re-
ceivc that monster, the man of sin, the son of perdition,
into her bosom, which stung the church with the poison of
mips, and filled the temple of God with image worship,
and the church with idolatry, selfishness, avarice, and
oi-ide.
"These things saith he which hath the sharp sword
with two
edges." By the sharp sword with two edges,
we must un erstand the word of God, which denounces
heavy
judgments;gn.
the wicked, and cuts off the corrup-
138 Lauren ix.
tions and errors from the church. The Psalmist
says,
cxlix. 5-7, "Let the saints be
fpeyful
in glory; et
them sing aloud upon their beds. t the high praises
of God be in their mouth, and a two-edged sword in
their hand, to execute vengeance upon the heathen, and
punishments upon the
people."
Paul says, Heb. iv. 12,
"For the word of Go is quick and powerful, sharper
than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing
asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and mar-
row, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of
the heart. And John saw, Rev. i. 16, "And he had in
his right hand seven stars; and out of his mouth went
a. sharp two-edged sword." Then this is the
meaning
of the passage under consideration, "These things sai
he," which hath the word of God, and showing us the
importance of attending to the subject following, by the
importance of the speaker, "He that is Christ." And
now, while we read or hear, let us keep in memory that
it is no less a.
personage speakin , than Him of whom
the prophets did write; who hoqdeth the stars in his
right hand, and created and preserves all things by the
word of his power. Hear him.
"I know thy works, and where thou dwellest, even
where Satan's seat is. Here,
again,
we have an evidence
that this church is mystical,
"
welling in Satan'a seat,"
the fourth kingdom, the great red dragon, imperial
Rome, whereon the great mystical whore of Babylon
sitteth. The church, in this e, became immediately
connected with this power cdlleul Satan, which is the
devil, Pagan Rome. "And thou holdest fast my name,
and hast not denied my tiaith." lu this time of popular
religion, and when many, from political and worldl
motives, united their names to the people of God, still
thc-re were some who held to the doctrine of Christ, and
did not deny the faith.
"
Even in those days, wherein Antipas was
my feithiiil
martyr, who was slain among you where Satan dwell-
eth." It is supposed that Antipus was not an individ-
ual, but a class of men who op|>oe=ed the power or' the
bishops or l'o>cs in that day, being a combination of
two words, Juli, opposed, and Pqm, father or Pop,
cnnsfs sscoim comms. 139
ind many ot' them suffered martyrdom, at that time, in
Constantinople and Rome, where the bishops and Popes
began to exercise the power which soon alter brought
into subjection the
kings
of the earth, and trampled on
the rights of t.he churc of Christ. And, for myself; I
see no reason to reject this explanation ofthe word
.Hntipas in this text, as the history of those times are
Eerfectly
silent respecting such an individual as is
ere named. Yet many, who o
posed the worship of
saints and pictures, and the infa.l}.lrbilityof the bishop of
Rome, were excommunicated, persecuted, and finally
driven out from among men, and in the next age of the
church had to Hee into the wilderness. All this hap-
petgisd
in t.he kingdom of Rome, "where Satan dwell-
_e
_
"
But I have a few things against thee, because thou
hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balsam,
who taught Balak to cast a stumbling-block before the
children of Israel, to eat thi sacrificed unto idols,
and to commit fomicationI"ng;he world have always
been endeavoring to draw the church of Christ into
fellowship with them, and to a mixed communion of
idolatry as Balsam
taught
Balak to draw the children
of Isradl from their Go and his commands, by mixing
with the Jews in their worship, and, at the same time,
by degrees, introduce their
priests,
their altars and
idol worship into their camp. n Constantine's day this
mode of warfare was introduced with great success by
"Pagan worshippers, so that in little more than two cen-
turies the greater part of the professed Christian church
became the image of the beast of which we are now
speaking, viz., Pagan Rome. Here, then, we see the
rise of Papacy on the downfall of Pagan Rome. Who-
soever will take the pains of comparing the Pagan
manner of worship, forms, and ceremonies with Papacy,
cannot help being forcibly struck with the similarity of
the two. One deified their departed heroes and poets,
the other her departed saints and votaries. The one
consulted her oracles and priests for laws and instruc-
tions, the other her Popes and cardinals. The one
-hadheraltars,ima|;es,andstntues,theother her chap
140 ua:-runs.
els, pictmes, and crosses. Both had them erected in
every public place, for the multitude to fall before and
worship. _Both had their holy fire, holy water, and both
claimed to perform miracles; the one bythe res nee of
her wooden oracles, and the other by her carnslopriest-
hood. Here, then, we see haw the church, in the fourth
and filth century, was led over the stumbling-block of
Paganism, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to com-
mit fomication.
"
So, also, hast thou them that hold the doctrine ofthe
Nicolaituns, which
thixi
I hate." This doctrine was
promulgated' in the fou century. See the church his-
tory, and our former observations.
"Repent,
or else I will come unto thee quickly, and
will figit against them with the sword of my mouth."
Again the Lord calls for repentance, and threatem the
judgments of his word upon them that obey not. O!
may we take waming, my brethren, and tempt not the
heavy judgments of God upon us, for our idolatry and
fellowship of that which is not the religion of Jesus.
"llc that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit
saith unto the churches. To<him that overcometh will
I ive to cut of the hidden manna, and will givo him a
wiiito stone, and in the stone a new name written, which
no mnn knoweth saving he that receiveth it" Again,
all lhnt lmvo enrs are commanded to hear, and those
who rmnnin fnitlifiil, that do not fall away, receive a
promino ol' spiritual food, and a name and rightcousnai
which nono can know but they who receive it.
IH, "And unto the angel of the church in 'Thyatirn
writo." 'l'ho signiiication of' Thi/ntira is, n "sweet
llvor of luhor or sncritice and contnt.ion," and is a de-
scription of tho church, after she is driven into t.he wil-
doruonn by the anti-Christian beast. This church lasted
until ubout tho tenth century; and little of her history
il known to the world; but some authors have pretended
to tmco her into the north-west part of Asia, and in the
north-out part of Europe, where they lived until about
tho tonth century, unknown unto the rest of the world,
U taking but little concem with the nations aroiuil
them. Yct it is aid they retained religion in its puri
eaarsads slcoxm comm. 141
ty, and held to the doctrines of the word of God. At
any rate this church is represented as being in a state
of heavy trial, and subject to seduction by some power
represented by that woman Jezebel, of which I shall
speak in its place. "These things saith the Son of
God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and
his feet are like fine brass;" representing, as in all
the other declarations tothe churches, that the character
addressing them is no less than the mighty God, the
omniscient, omnipotent, and omnipresent Jehovah, who
says, "I know thy works, and charity, and service, and
faith, and patience, and thy works; and the last to be
more than the first." When this church existed, which
was when anti-Christ began her reign, there was great
need of the exercise of those graces of the spirit which
in this passage are enumerated. lst. In works they had
to, and without doubt did, combat the anti-Christian
doctrines which began in the sixth
century to over-
whelm the Christian world, such as worshipping angels,
departed saints, subjection to councils and bishops,
infallibility of the Pope, Sw. They, in charity, too,
had many of their brethren to sustain while combatxino'
these errors against the power of this beast. They did
much service iii holding up the hands of their pious
teachers and pastors who were not led away by this
wicked one. How much faith, too, must they have
been in possession ot' to have withstood the power
of their councils, the ,excommunications of the Pope,
and a majority of their brethren who had fell into
Papal errors! how much "patience" to have re-
mained unwavering amidst persecution when driven
from their homes, their country and friends, into the
wilderness, where God prepared a place for her! and
how much more necessary were their last works to sup-
port each other in exile, poverty, and distress,the natural
consequence of being driven from among men! But
these things were so, according to the best account we
can obtain of' those times.
20, "
Notwithstanding, I have a few things against thee,
because thou suiferest ihat woman Jezebel, which call-
eth herself a
prophetess, to teach md to seducemy
142 uzc-rua: ix.
servants to commit fomication, and to eat thing
sacrificed to idols." In this verse we have strong
testimony that the exposition we have given of the
seven churches is correct; for no character given the
woman Jezebel will ap ly so
exactliy,
as the woman
sitti on the scarlet.-collored beast, ull of names of
blasIp§emy,`" having
a golden cup in her hand fall of
abominations and ti thiness of her fornication."
Jezebel is a figurative name,
alludinigo
Ahab's wife,
who slew the prophets ofthe Lord, led r husband into
idolatry, and fed the prophets of Baal at her own table.
A more striking figure could not have been used to de-
scribe the Papal abomination. See I Kings xviii. xia.
xxi. chapters. It is very evident from history, as well u
from this verse in Revelation, that the church of Christ
did suffer some of the Papal monks to preach and teach
among them. See the history of the Waldenses.
2l, "And I gave her space to repent of her fornica-
tion, and she repented not." 22, "
Behold I will cast her
into a bed, and them that commit adultery with her into
great tribulation, except they repent of their deeds." 23,
"And I will kill her children with death; and all the
churches shall know that I am he which searcheth the
reins and hearts, and I will
Qye
unto every one of you
according to your works." e cannot be mistaken in
the character given tothis mystical Jezebel, when we
compare the descriptions here used, and the
judgments
threatened, with other passages of like import tn evela-
tion, where mystical Babylon is described and threat-
ened. See Rev. ix. 20, 21, "And the rest of the mea
which were not killed by these plagues, yet repented not
ofthe works of their hands, that they should not worship
devils and idols of gold, and silver, and brass, and stone,
and of wood, which neither can see, nor hear, nor walk:
neither repented they of their murders, nor of their sor-
oeries, nor of their fomication, nor of their thefts."
If these last texts mean anti-Christ, of which l believe
nono have any doubt, that is, no commentator thatl have
been able to consult, then it is equally evident that this
woman, called Jezebel, in this prophecy ofthe church il
Thyatira. means the same; and the conclusion il strong
-
cna1s'r's snconn comme. 143
Brat the Thyatira church represents the churches in
some age of anti-Christ, and the pmphecy contained in
the verses we have already quoted are the Judgments God
has and will pour out on that great city that rules over
the kings of the earth, and has for ages past trodden the
church under foot, and contaminated the people of God
by her seductions, orceries, and fomications.
24, "But unto you I say, and unto die rest in 'I'hya-
tiru, As many as have not this doctrine, and which have
not known the de ths of Satan as they speak, I will put
uponyou none otiier burden." 25, "
But that which
tye
have already, hold fast till I come," In these verses e
church which have not fellowshipped the anti-Christian
doctrine, and have not followed the practices of the sa.-
tanic blasphemies of their abominations, are here prom~
ised to experience no other persecution except what they
may experience from this beast or woman Jezebel, which
is another proofof this being anti-Christ; for the church
in Thyatira has long been extinct, if there ever was such
a church, and was when the man of sin was revealed;
and yet they are promised to have none other burden un-
til he come, as it is more than implied; and this power is
to stand until he comes. For Paul says,
"
Whom he shall
consume with the spirit of his mouth and destroy with the
brightness of his cominfv." This is Daniel's fourth king-
dom, which was to be broken without hand, and to be
carried away like the chaif of the summer
threshing-door
before the wind, that no place be found for it.
26, "
And he that overcometh and keepeth my works
unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations,"
27, (" And he shall rule them with a rod of iron; as the
vessels of a tter shall they be broken to shivers,) even
as Ireceivesoof my Father. And I will give him the
morning star." 29, "Ile that hath an ear, let him hear
what the Spirit saith to the churches."
In closing the prophecies to the churches, our divine
Instructor carries them down to that day when he shall
come to be admired in all' them that believe, or to glorify
his saints, to crown them his in his kingdom of glory, to
break in pieces all the kingdoms ofthe earth as a
potter's
vessel is broken to shivers, as the last text says, which
144 LICTUII lx. _
proves that when Christ comes, he will bnng all the saint
with him, and this too when the kingdoms of this world
and anti-Christ will be destroyed. And this proves an-
other important point in which many
glood
and pious peo-
ple are greatly mistaken, viz., that ere will not be a
thousand years' happy reign previous to Christ's coming
the second time without sin unto salvation What happy
reign can there be while the kingdoms of the earth stand
as
they now do; while the anti-Christian beast has power
to seduce and draw the servants of God into idolatry, and
lull to her serpentine folds thousands and tens of thou-
sands human beings early, and deceive the nations by
her siren song of nuziizr church ; while by means of her
poison, subtle, secret, and deep, she is undermining and
sappiug the foundation of every religious sect but hcr
own; of every civil government but such as will resign
their power unto her control? And now, while I :un
speaking. she is exerting an influence in this once ihvored
land, by means ofher Jesuits, that will set futher against
son, and son against father, and drench our
country in
blood. Can this monster of murder, iniquity, and blood,
retain her life, her standing in society, and we have a
happy reign? No. She must and will sink like a mill-
stone in the mighty deep, and God will avenge the blood
of his servants. Her Besh must be eaten by dogs; yea,
the kings of the earth shall oat hcr llesh, and God shall
consume her with tire betbre the happy reign comet.
"
Come, Lord Jesus, come
quickly."
dl
LECTUREVX.
REV. L20.
The mystery ol' the seven stars which thou sawest in my right
hand, and the seven golden candlesticks. The seven stars are
the
anslels
of the seven churches; and the seven candlesticks
which u aawest are the seven churches.
In my former lectures I have given m views of four
ofthe churches spoken of in the text. 'I'hree more re-
main, which will complete the
prlotphetic history of the
church through all the
ages
of the ew Testament times
until the state of trial s all he fulnlled, and the church
shall enter her glorified kingdom in triumph. You have
undoubtedly been led, by the comparison ofthe churches
with the history thus far, to admire the agreement ofthe
prophecy ofthe four churches with the history of the
times; and truly this is one of the greatest evidences we
have of the truth ofthe divine inspiration of revelation,
and this evidence fixes the authenticity ofthe Scriptures
beyond a reasonable doubt. I shall now claim a few
moments' indulgence while I atbemptto show where and
when the other three churches have been or will be ful-
filled. See Rev. iii. f
l,
"
And unto the angel ofthe church in Sardis write."
Song of joy, or that which remains, is the signiiication
of Sardis. The last signification is the one which the
heavenly Instructor has affixed himself to this church in
the second verse,
"
Be watchful, and strengthen the
things which remain." -_ The church preceding this
had passed a long, dark, and henighted age of the world,
13
16 liflllll.
andeverywriterofthesetirnescallsthemthedarlr
ages; and truly it was an age of superstition, bigotry,
and ignorance; therefore we must reasonably suppose
that but few were the true worshippers of God, and
those few enjoying but a faint
knowledge of divine
things. But we will pursueour coarse. "
Fhese things
saith he that hath the seven spirits of God, and the
seven stars,I know thy works, that thou hast a name,
that thou livest, and art dead." The same character
that has addressed the other churches, still gives him-
self a quality by which we
may know that it is he who
is called God man, having the spirit of God, and as man
governing his church as the star of Bethlehem. This
church began about the tenth century, and lasted until
the Reformation under Luther, Calvin, and others.
They had a name, were called Waldenses, Valdenses,
&.c., "and art dead ;" that is, she was or would
be of little use to the rest ofthe world,
hiding
her influ-
ence within her own sphere, and of course di not mani-
fest her light to the world, was inactive, idle, not per-
forming the work which God had commanded them to
perfomr, to set their light on the candlestand, that it
might give light to all. This was the case with the
church in the valleys of Piedmont
during
the time of the
crusades to the Holy Land; and while e Pope had the
command of all the armies of Europe, the church lived
in these valleys of the Pyrenees, nearly in the centre of
Europe, unknowing and unknown.
2d verse,
*'
Be watchful, and strengthen the things
which remain, thatare read to die; for I have not found
thy works pertect before god." Although the church
in this age retained some of the lending principles ofthe
gospel, the ordinances were in part retained among
them, yet towards the close of this .Sardis age, the Papal
monks and priests were sent in among them, and many
of the Waldenses became corrupted by the Papal beast
and her doctrine. Therefore the admonition, "
Be watch-
ful, and strengthen the things which remain."
3d verse, "Remember how thou hast received and
heard, and hold fast and repent. Ii, therctbre, thou
ahaltnotwatch,Iwillcomeontheeaaathiel}anrlthou
caarsrls ncezn comms. IU
shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee." The
judgment threatened in this verse, "I will come upon
thee," is undoubtedl a
prophecy of the
persecution
of
'the Waldenses and Lzllards, by the Papa authority, and
through the inquisition, as un instrument, about the close
of the fourteenth century, when, for their departure from
the true doctrine of the
gospel,
and the commands of
God, they were persecute and scattered among all
nations, so that by the judgments of God, for their tra.ns-
gressions, they were made instruments in the hands of
God of
spreadini
the knowledge of the gospel among
the nations, whi they ought toluwe done in obedience
to his word, and for the love ofsouls. And these judg-
ments served the double purpose of punishment Ibr sm,
and opening a door fora more general display of sal-
vation.
4th verse, "Thou hast a Raw names even in Sax-dis
'which have not detileel their garments, and they shall
.walk with me in white, for they are worthy." There
were a few even in this age of moral darkness who fol-
lowed Christ in his laws and ordinances, and the
receive the promise of justification before God, "
wal;
with me in white."
5th verse, "He that overcometh, the same shall be
clothed in white raimerxt, and I will not blot out his
name out of the book of life; but I will confess his name
before my Father and before his angels." Whenever
the phrase, "he that overcometh," is used, it always im-
plies, I think, in the
Scriptures,
that the persons addressed
are, or will pass throug a time of persecution; and in
this text the church in this age is shown that 'those only
who can endure tribulation and 'persecution will be
acknowled d at the bar of God as the children of faith.
And then this church is again warned to hear and be-
lieve what the S irit saith to the churches.
6th verse, "Ife that hath an ear, let him 'hear what
thc Spirit saith to the churches."
I shall now attempt to show to what age we may cal-
culate the Philadelphia church should answer, and when
this rophecy was fulilled.
7th verse, "And to the angel of the church in Phila-
IB nuns;
nihhethtiholhhek
i|tme,hetlmt hath the ey ot`Darid,hs tht opaneth
and no man ahutteth,snd shutteth and XIII! openeth."
Thisverseisadescription ofthe character addressing
the church and givean accountofhhlmlineqhi vers-
city, authority, and power, and leaves us without a doubt
thatitisJesusthesonofDarid,theHoly One of
lsnehthefaithlitland t:ruewitnes,ht.hathstha1l
powerinheavenandin eanls Andhe thm addresses
them, Eth verse, "I know thy works: behold, I have set
beforetheean opendoor,ud no man can dint it,for
thouhastalittle st|ength,and hastkep myword,and
hast.notdeniedmname."The"
`
ofthe
mme of this church Pkiluddphia, b lone, and
thisagebegan aboutthetime ofthe Retbnmtimn; for
then God opened an eiectual door for the l to be
xr"x:':".;;°:,," °,;f°°'
°'
";;,.'" ww;
ut. y or-mera
`
a a ae
fearlessnesin their cause which &iemd|
andcoufounded their enemies. Atthistime,too, Chris-
tian love and fellowship
wtnkvidently
on of the
strougeetmarksofthedayandmanife thstthework
was of God.
9th verse,"Behold,l will make them ofthe syna-
gogue
of Satan which say they are Jews and are not,
ut, do lie." The characters here spoken of are the
sarneasthose whosit inSata.n'saeat,whoprofeastobe
Christians, but are anti-Christians; they are worshippers
of the Papal beast, profemingtn be the smother cltrfrclu,
but are only that part which are fallen away, as Paul
has told ns, "there should come a
t`a.l.li§'away
lint, and
then the man of sin should be reveal who opposeth,
(or is ant.i,) and exalteth himself (calling themselves Jews,
a
|?urs.tive expression, or name for Christian) above
all int is called God." "
Behold,l will make them to
come and
worship before thy feet, and to know that I
have loved thee. This sentence shows tint s.nti-Christ
would be humbled in this age of the church and
hong:
I0 lake the back round, or in some measure lose
civil power over 51:2 Protestant church and be humbled
atherfeet. Hu notthis prophscybeen aeeanplihed
omus~r's
Vszooxn comms. 149
strictly
according;
thellettor ? Witness Great Britain,
Germany, and e nations. And to this day she has
not been able to bring into subjection any of the Protes-
tant states, and is only permitted to dwell among them by
toleration. And although within a few years past she
seems to be making an effort to regain her lost power
and authority, yet it is but a last struggle,a d ing gasp;
(br soon she must and will fall, to rise m civil power no
more forever.
10th verse, "Because thou hast kept the word of my
patience, I also will keep thee from the hour of tempta-
tion which shall come upon all the world to try them that
dwell upon the earth." This part of the
prophecy
was
fulfilled on or before the French revolution, w en Athe-
ism dnd Deism made such rapid progress through
Europe or the Roman
gpvemment,
which in
protphecy
is
called the earth. See ev.xii.9. And it is a act, that
through this age of profligacy and corruption, the church
retained her principles as pure and with as little defec-
tion as any
sie
in modem times; although men of the
world were le away by the
aplausible writings of Vol-
taire, Hume, Tom Paine, an others, yet it had no etfect
on the Christian church ': and the
promise,
"
I will keep
thee from the hour of temptation, was fully and faith-
fiilly accomplished; and the very means that Satan used
to destroy the religion of Jesus Christ, or "
the twelve
fishermen," was the means of bringing the church out
of the wildemess. And those govemments of the world
which had for more than twelve centuries persecuted
the children of God, now
granted free toleration for all
men to worship God
accordinito
the dictates of their
own conscience. And from t is period we may see the
"angel flying through the midst of heaven having the
everlastin gos el to preach to them that dwell on the
earth." lgow the church began to awake to the subject
of missions ;` and while the world was tempted and tried,
the kingdoms of the earth shaken to their centre, (yet
not destroyed ;) while the civil power of the mother of
harlots, the inquisition of Spain, and the horrible means
of torture, persecution, slavery, and cruelty, were all
swept away in
pipe'
revolution, -
the church, by the power
150 meter: 1. ~
of Him who had
'
to "keep thai," posed
through me6mo hmHd iireon her
gsrments.
llth verse, "Behold, I come quickly; hold thatfsst
which thou had, that no man take thy crown." In this
verse we have notice of his second coming, and tint it
would be quickly; by which I undershmd that the a
of the seventh church, which was yet to come, would bg
short, and the second
coming
of him, who will overcome
and subdue all things, woul be uickly. He likewise
admonishes us to hold fast thst wllnich we have, giving
us,asIunderstand,wnrnin§
thstthe nextage ofthe
church would be an age o invention; of lo heres, of
departure from the true faith, of
denying
the crown of
the church, the twelve stars, the apos es' doctrine. And
amidst the confusion of the doctrines and revelations of
the present day, if any one should inquire of me what
sentiment it would be best for them to embrace, I would
first point them to the Bible, and second, back to the
futhers u.nd teachers of the last century, and say, Hold
fust that they held; let no man take thy crown. Let us
then, my brethren, be watchful, and remember "him that
overcometh will I make a. pillar in the temple of my
God, and he shall go no more out; and I will write
upon him the name of
mty;1God,
and the name of the
cig
of my God, which is ew Jerusalem, which come
down out of heaven from my God; and l will write upon
him my new name." The blessings romised in this
text are to be realized when the New .llenisalem comes
down from God out of heaven; then shall the spiritual
born chilxl of heaven be n
pillar in the temple of God, in
that building made without hands; then, too, will he
rf-ceive that rich inheritance that is laid up in heaven tor
those that love God, und there obtuin that eternal crown,
that immortul life which is now hid with Christ in God,
and then und there reulize that "blessed hope at the
§Iorious appearing of the great God and our Savior
onus Christ." "
And he shall go no more out
"
of that
glorious temple; no tempting devil there, for he will be
chained; no 'recounting kin nlom, for they will "all be
destroyed angtearried away like the chaff of the summer
'
cnaxs-r's slccmn comms. 151
threshing-floor." Tlien will he receive the new name,
"The Lord our
righteousness," for the Lord is there.
Then, too, a citizen of the gloriied kin dom, the New
Jerusalem, married to the Lamb, and shag live and reign
with him forever and forever. "He that hath an ear,
let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches."
This closes the prophecy to the sixth church'; and now
let us see to it that we do not lose the blessings promi ed
by refusing to hear what the Spirit saith to the churches.
Hear, and your souls shall live; disobey, turn a deaf
ea:-xi
refuse the
iiig grace,
und you will die ;_fovr the
so that sinne s ie.
It now remains for me to show the age of the seventh
or Laodicean churclipand the characteristic marks of
that church or
age. And, if I am right in considering
these churches in a mystical sense, as our text more
than implies, and our snguments and references strongly
prove, in my humble opinion, then, this part of our sub-
ject becomes doubly interesti to us, who live in the
very age of the fulfilment ofngiis prophecy. Yes, my
brettliren, wehlive
at the very time when the great head
of e churc sa. s,
14t.h verse, "find unto the angel of the church in
Laodicea write, These things saith the Amen, the faithful
and true witness, the beginning ofthe creation of God."
Laodicea signifies the
Lodging
of the people, and may
have reference to the c urch In its last stage, when God
would pour out his justice and judgment upon a
guilty
world, and upon a
haughgy, proud, and self-exalted
church, and spue them out o his mouth. This idea ma
be warranted from the subject in connection. The mi
dress to this church begins by showing that it is the
closing up of this dispensation, by saying, "
These things
saith the Amen." It also teaches us that it commences
the judgment,
qtrhiprepares
for a
judgment, by bringing
forward "the fai ul and true witness." It also shows
the universality of this judgment by the knowledge of
the
witness being
"
the beginning of the creation of
God.
15th verse, "I know thy works, that thou art neither
cold nor hoté I would thou wort cold or hot." To be
152 norm: x.
-
_
neither cold nor not in reli 'ous implies a
fession of religion without E1s iritual
`
e, or the mid,dl:
way between the world and Christ; much
alter worldly things, to the
neglect
of spiritual things;
endeavoring to move between e doctrine of Christ and
the doctrine of men; taking the middle ground, as I have
often heard it expressed.
16th verse,
"
So then, because thou art lukewarm, and
neither cold nor hot, I will spue thee out of my mouth."
For this cause, that is, because they are
engaged more
for show, honors, or profits of this world thanfor God, he
would spue them out of his mouth. The word spue i
used in three places in Scripture, besides the _one under
consideration; in Levit. xviii. 28, xx.22, Jer. xxv. 27;
and in all these places stands connected with the 'udg-
ments of God upon Israel, or the nations spoken oé and
implies a shaking out or
driving from their resent
tending, either among nations or in the kingdhm of
Christ, as the case may be. And this passage, I suppose,
alludes to the time when God hath promised, saying,
"Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also
heaven," Heb. xii. 26. So we may expect a
shaking
ofthe church of Christ, if this is the age spoken of; that
those things which cannot be shaken may remain. This,
too, is the age when the wise and foolish virgins are
sleeping and slumbering together.
17th verse, "Because thou saycst, I am rich, and in-
creased with goods, and have need of noth' , and know-
cst not that thou art wretched, and miserauli£, and poor,
and blind, and naked." Our heavenly Instructor has
given us in this verse the reason
why they are lukewann;
"because thou sayest,I am rich." The church in this
Laodiccan state, like the rich uian, will be laying up
goods, or making great calculations for the outward or
worldly concerns ofthe church tor many years to come,
building places for worship, establishing colleges, high
schools, academies, theological institutions, to raise up
a popular ministry, that the world may be pleased, the
ministry well supported, und they becoinutlin must popu-
lar sect ot' the day, "
increased with ggomlsf' This, ln .
ll the church. What shall be called thc goods of the
cr-uus'r's ssconn comma. lanfl
church? lt is those contributions which are deposited
for charitable and pious uses, such as Paul informed his
brethren to lay by them in store on the iirst day of the
week. These will be increased to a great and astonish-
ing degree in this
age of the church. Theological
writings and publications, too, are the goods ol the
church: there will be a
great increa e of these. "
Come
see what great things we are doing," will be the general
language of the church, and the names of donors and
the sums they contribute will be published through the
world. "
And knowest not that thou art wretched. "
The corruptions of the church will be kept out of sight;
and pride, popularity, self-righteousness, depravity, will
be the besetting sins of the members and great body of
public professors, and few, very few of the ministers of
the churches will be valiant or bold enough to tell them
the truth. "And miserable." Real piety will be very
little
engoyed;
the
hotpes
of a
large bod of professors
will be ut the hope 0 a hypocrite. "
Analpoor." With-
out a tried faith, suifering but little or no persecution,
the church will lack those riches which are more precious
than fine gold, the trial of their faith. "And blind,"
without faith, living by seen more than on the
promises of God. "And ed," having on their own
righteousness. "I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried
in the Hre." That is, the Amen, the faithful and true
witness, counsels the Laodicean church to buy the
gold
tried in the fire, which
maty
mean either that faith w ich
will stand the fiery trial o temptation and persecution,
or that truth which is like
"atzples
of gold in pictures
of silver;" "that thou mayeat e rich ;." rich in faith or
in the knowledge of the truth; "
and white raiment that
thou mayest be clothed," that raiment which John saw
the saints in heaven clothed with., which is the righte-
ousness of the saints, the imputed righteousness of
Christ, "the Lord our
`
hleoumesa." If It is not so, why
counsel the church tonguy of him? Yes, my brethren,
we are counselled to buy a raiment without
spot
or
wrinkle, "
and that the shame of thy nakedness o not
appear." Truly, when Christ comes, and we find we have
been trusting in self, although we have called ourselves
|54 x.sc-rsnx.
by his name, we have worn our own clothing, and at
our own bread, and instead of being clothed upon, we
sha.ll find ourselves naked. Shall we not be ashamed
before him at his coming, if we are in this situation
when he comes? 0, what an awful thought! There-
fore let us now receive the further admonition, "
And
anoint thine eyes with eye-salve, that thou mayest see."
To anoint the eyes, in a
figurative sense, is to examine
the truth and evidences ot' Scripture, that we may see
clearly our state and standing as it` respects our chanc-
ter towards God and our hope in his future aid, promises,
and blessings. It is to see our sins, and feel the need
of help, to know our weakness, and trust in his strength
-in one word, it is to repent and believe in the gospel
oflesus Christ. For he says, "As many as I love I re-
buke and chasten: be zealous therefore and repent."
Here, then, is one comfortable promise to this lukewarm
church. If there is
agp
tried, chastened, penitent soul
in this church, this La icean state or
age of the church,
they have the
promise
of his love, his
everlasting love,
his unch a le love; his
lovinlgl
kindness he will not
take from m, although he sho d "
visit their tram-
ssions with a rod, and their iniquity with stripes."
Eezealous, therefore, brethren, and repent.
20th verse, "Beho1d,I stand at the door and knock."
He that is the "Amen" is now at t.he door. In this La-
odicean age of the church he comes; he knocks by his
Qudgments, by the tiiliilment of the signs, by his word,
ay
all the means of grace that God has ever used to
arm the sleepy, slumhering
virgns
of his approach
He gives the cautionary word, "
hold, I stand at the
door and knock; if any man hear m voice and open the
door, I will come in to him, and will' sup with him, and
he with me." ln this passage of
prophecymwe
are
broiight
down to the marriage supper of the mb -
ano cr
and a strong testimony that the churches are to be con-
sidered in a
mystical sense, and the language or subject
prophetical. 'or this is certainly the saying of Jesus,
the iiiithiiil and true witness;
"
iiir the testimony of Jesus
is the spirit of prophecy." Rev. xix. 7-9, "
Let us rc-
joiceand beglad,and give honortolrim; forthemsr-
cmus'r's sncoim conmra. 155
riage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made
herself ready. And to her was granted that she should
be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white; for the fine
linen is the
righteousness
of saints. And he saith unto
me, Write, B essed are they which are called to the
marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me,
These are the U116 sayings of God." We see, my friends,
by the similarity of the sentiments given in the marri e
supper, and those admonitions and prophecies to "tie
Laodicean church, that they must mean one and the
same event. To hear the voice of the bridegroom, and
to open the door, and go out to meet him, is the way
which the bride makes herself ready; and his supping
with them and they with him, shows that it is when
Christ shall come, and live, and reign with them.
"
To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me
in my throne, even as 1 also overcame, and am set down
with my Father in his throne." Here is another ex res-
sion which
_proves we are
brought down to the eng of
time, "
to htm that overcometh." What can the. faithful
and true witness mean by this expression? He explains
himself; "
even as Ialso overcame." How did Christ over-
come when he sat down with his Father? I answer, By
bursting the bands* of death, by conquering the grave, he
arose a glorious conqueror, and was seated at the right
hand of God. Then this is the true meaning of the text,
to him, that hath part in the first resurrection, willl
grant
to sit with me in my throne. "Blessed and holy is he
that hath part in the first resurrection; on such the sec-
ond death hath no power; but they shall be kings and
priests oi' God, and of Christ, and shail reign with him."
What li ht m'~y we not receive from the word of God,
when taqien together, when explained by its own lan-
gua e, when kept unbroken! "He that hath an ear,
let hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches."
This closes what 1 call, and what Christ, I think, calls,
a
prophecy. "
Blessed is he that readeth, and they that
hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things
which are written therein; for the time is at hand."
This Laodicean church began about A. D. 1798, and
will last the forty-five years. When this dispensation
156 ascfvu x.
will close, the _udgment will set, and the books will-bo
opened; the hypocrites will be spued out of the church,
and the sanctuary cleansed.
Will the situation of the church, the character of
Christians, the doctrines taught, md the sign of the
times warrant us to believe that we live in the Laodicean
age of the church? Let us for a moment examine the
evidence and see.
lst. The situation of the church, enjoying peace in
and among the kingdoms of the earth, enjoying all the
privileges of citizens without persecution, malung great
and many improvements in her worldly concerns, rich in
this world's ds, having at her command
manty
millions
of funds, angzlomost swaying the destiniea of e world;
great, leamed and rich men enlisting under her banners,
controlling the fashions, customs, and laws of the day,
swaying amighty influence over the education of our
youth, and giving a general tone to the literature of the
world, increasing her demands for
dpower, establishing
bishoprics, presbyteries, national an state conventions,
conferences, councils, associations, consociations, socie-
ties innumerable; and all these controlled almost exclu-
sively by her clergy. May we not say
truly,
"
She is rich
and increased in goods? But is this all. No. Look
at her colleges, theological schools, academies, deposito-
ries, public editices, presses, theological writings and
publications, in almost every nation, kingdom, state, and
territory, and in this country in almost every county and
town; and all this by contributions. Well may it he
said, she has need of nothingf These things, wo, among
all sects and denominations, one cannot outdo another
apparently, yet each is striving for the mastery.
211. The characters Q/` Christians generally. In speak-
ing ofthe character of our brethren, it becomes thc speak-
er to be very careful and unassuming, for God has not
nmde him at
judge over his brethren. Therefore, to judge
this one is right, and that one wrong, we sha.ll leave Ihr
the
fudgment
seat oi' (Thrist. But on a general scale
sure y we
may be allowed to examine and
cmngare
our-
selves with the prophecies. ln all ages back, C ristians,
when living godly, have been a poor, despised, persecu-
l
cnars1~'a ssooim coimfs. 157
ted people, pilgrims and strangers in the world, plainly
showing that this is not their continuing city, but that
they are seeking one tocome. But is itso new ? Have
not professors generally, for more than thirty years,
been seeking for the riches of this life, for the honors
of the world, and following the fashions of the times as
greedily
as men of the world? Yes. And can we dis-
tinguis a professor of religion in our public assemblies
from a man of the world, except we are informed? No.
Where, then, do Christians plainly show they seek n
better country? Nowhere. May we not live in the
same
neighborhood with professors for years, and not
hear them recommend the religion they profess? Yes.
But do we not hear the same rsons talk freely,
tlipzantly,
and zealously about the world?the politics and the hions
of the day? Yes. Is it notageneral complaint with
all of our churches, of coldness, of a want of spiritual
life, and a great failure in active spiritual duties P Yes.
Has not a spirit of sloth and supineness seized upon
professors generally? Do not many think, if they have
a hired servant to talk religion, and visit the widow
and fatherless, and keep themselves unspotted from the
world, for them it is
enough?
Yes. And does not all
this, and much more whic might with truth be said on
this point, declare loudly that the professors of Chris-
tianity,
generalxly,
are in a. lukewarm state ? Yes. We
must respond, es.
~
The doctrine taught. Here again your speaker feels
a ditlidence in speaking on this subyect, knowing that
many great, learned, and
good
men difer on this point;
but we must all stand or all to our own Master, and I
must answer how I speak or shun to declare the whole
counsel of God. Your speaker believes that the de-
pravity ofthe human heart, our dependence on God, and
indebtedness to ce, are abundantly taught in the
Scriptures. See %;h. ii. 4-13. But how stands this
doctrine with our public proclaimers at the present day ?
Some few may preach it, but there is more than ten to
one who do not preach it, or, if they do, they so cover it
up by their plausible and specious reasonmg, that the
force of the
floctrine
and the object of the inspired
4
|58 Lncruan x.
writers are wholly lost. We are now taught that man
can make himself a Christian as easily as_he can turn
about in the highway; that obedience or
baptism is re-
generation; that works are the medium of acceptance
with God, and that the righteousness of Christ is not
imputed. How can such doctrine be more
clearly
pointed out than it is
by!
the "
faithful and true witness
to the Laodicean churc P "
And knowest not that thou
a.rt wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and
naked." That is, they know not their depravity. "l
counsel thee to buy of me (see here their dependence on
God) gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest he rich;
and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, tlmt the
shame of thy nakedness do not appear; and anoint thine
eyes with
eye-salve,
that thou mayest see." Grace,
grace,
from e foundation to the
totp
stone. Surely, my
ear friends, no candid observer o the doctrine taught
at the
'Eresent day, but what must in his heart acknowl-
edge at the doctrine taught by many, among the dit?
ferent sects, is the same described by our divine Master
in the prophecy to the Laodicean church.
The signs of the times. ln the close of Christ's in-
structions to the church under consideration, he says,
"
Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if any man bear
my voice," &,c. Daniel says, "At that time shall Mi-
chael stand up, the great Prince that standeth u for the
children of thy people." And Christ sa e, "Far
many
shhll come in
mymame, saying, I am Christ, and shal
deceive many." hese were particular signs given by
Christ and the prophets. And how have these come to
pass ? Witness the great and many reformations which
for thirty
years
have progressed in our Land, in Europe,
and the is ands ofthe seas. See also the word of God
published, in whole or in put, among all nations. See
the missionaries of the gospel running toand fro through
the whole earth. Do not these indicate that Christ
stands at the door, and that his voice has gone out even
unto the ends of the world, and that Michael has stood
up for the children of thy people? Yes. Again: how
many new sects have arisen, how man false Christe have
come in this blaze ofgospel li¢bt,uuiaredrawing away
cmus-r's srcoim comme. 159
their hundreds and thousands after them! lt is almost
incredible, when we take into view the light and knowl-
edge under which we
live; but all go to prove that
Christ is nigh, even at the door.
In reviewing our
subject, we learn by the events of
the Sardis church, and by the admonitlons given, our
duty to guard against the introduction of errors into the
church, and to strengthen ourselves in the truth; and
likewise of being active in all the duties of religion, that
we may not only have a name to live, but have the life
.and power of the gospel, that we may resist all the
temptations and dery darts of the enemies of the
church.
By the church of Philadelphia, we learn that if we
keep the word of God and the
testimony of Jesus Christ,
he will keep us from those trials and Judgments which
he sends on an ungodly and rebellious people, and that
God has opened a door for the spread of the gospel,
which no power on earth will be able to shut., until the
angel standi on the sea and on the land, shall swear
that time shag?be no
longer. We also learn the
impor-
tance of having brotherly love and perseverance in oly
things, that no man take from us the crown which is laid
up for those that love God, and which. will be given to
them who remain steadfast in Christlesus at his coming,
which is promised quickly to this church.
By the Laodicean church,`we learn the important les-
son that we cannot serve two masters; we cannot love
the present evil world, and at the same time be the ser-
vants of God; that to be lukewarm in religion is to be
cast out of his presence, and call down the vengeance of
God's iinal judgment uponour heads, and, while we may
Batter ourselves that we are righteous, find to our ever
lasting shame, that we are wretched, miserable, poor
blind, and naked.
Think, 0 think, my dear friends, you that are
trustim
in your own goodness, when that day of justice sh
come, and the faithful and true witness
shalllkstand
inst you, when our goodness shall pass away 1' e the
§>arning cloud, andythe righteous Judge shall pronounce
160 LIGTUII x.
the dreadthl sentence, Depart- what must be
feelings! The world, which
you
here worshippeim:
burning up; the friends with w om you here essoci-:ted
are gone to meet the Lord in the air, or are
sinkin£with
you into endless and hopeless misery. The vior,
whose name you are now ashamed to own, or whose
righteousness you think you need not, is now your
Iuda
seated on a
great. white throne, from whose time
heavens and the earth shell dee sway. Think, 0 sinner!
where wilt thou be found!
LECTURE XI.
_
u
nav. v. 9, io.
And they sung a new song
sang'
Thou an worthy to take the
book, and to open the deals ereof; for thou was! slain, and
hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred,
and tongue, and people, and nation ; and hast made us unto our
God kings and priests; and we shall reign on the earth.
Teens is such harmony, beauty, and knowledge in
every part of the word of God, that the Bible student,
whose heart is interested in the same, has ohen, while
reading, been led to stop and admire the order, wisdom,
and light which burst upon his enraptured vision, at the
unfolding of _the figures and truths which until that mo-
ment, perhaps, lay in darkness, doubt, and obscurity, and
seemed to be wrapped up in a
mysterious veil that al-
most makes the reader quail, and come to the conclu-
sion that he is treading on forbidden ground ;~but, perhaps,
in an unexpected moment, the inspired penman, seem-
ingly having anticipated our ignorance or darkness,
throws out a spark of that live coal which had touched
his lips, and our darkness i dis
elled,i§1orance
vanishes
before the fulness of knowlefge of e word of God,
and we stand reproved and admonished for our
stupidity
and ignorance in the figures and truths before explaine
Our text is a brilliant s ark of that fire which is upon
the altar between the cherubims, and
'gives
us a clear
ray of' light to discover the allusion o the
figures
con-
tained in the fourth and fifth chapters of this ook. It is
conveyed
mit:*us by way of a chorus, like the angel'|
163 LICTULI xr.
song at the birth of our Savior in Bethlehem of Judea.
It explains to us in a divine song what the four beasts
are, and gives a key to unlock the mystery of the twenty-
four elders, and
clearly
shows who opens the seals of
the book. I shall, in i
lustratinglthis subject, inquire
I. Who they were that sung is new song;
II. Show the song, and the occasion of it; and,
III. Speak of the reign and the place where.
I. We are to inquire who are the singers in this
grand
chorus. The
prophet
calls them "the four
easts," or, as it
might
ave been more
'properly
transla-
ted, jbur animate eings; and the "
our and twenty
elders," he also calls them "
saints," See the Sth v
"
And when he had taken the book, the four beastsersd
four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, hav-
ing every one of them harps and golden vials full of
odors, which are the prayers of the saints." Then comes
in our text, "And they sung a. new song," &,e. The
four beasts is a
figurative representation of the whole
New Testament church, not only in character, but in
chronology, representing the four diiferent stages of trial
through which the church should pass in her
pilgrimage
in the wilderness of this world, before she wo d enter
the visible kingdom of her glorious Redeemer, the New
Jerusalem, and reign on the earth. And every individ-
ual Christian, who may live any length of time after his
conversion,
passes through some or all of these states of
trial. The our and twenty elders are the twelve tri-
archs, which are sometimes called prophda, ourthe
twelve apostles of the Lamb. For it is said, we are
built on the prophets and apostles, Jesus Christ being
the chief' corner-stone; and figuratively it may reprment
the faithful and true ministers of Jesus Christ, the same
as the twenty-four courses of the priesthood under the
Jewish economy. Sec I Chron. xxiv. 7-19. And the
four beasts are typified b the four grand divisions ot'
the Jewish cam under hiloses. The lint, on the east,
was to follow the standard of Judnh; that on the south
side, and second in the march, was the standard of Reu-
ben; on the west side, Ephraim, and his, was the third
standard in the march; on the north side was Dan'|
cnnrs'r's smozm comme. IG!
standard and Dan
brought up the rear in the nnrch of
the Jews through the w demess. What their several
standards 'were, I cannot tell, except that of Judah,
which marched in front, immediately after the ark, which
in all probability was a lion. And our "Hrst beast"
under consideration was "like a lion, and the second
beast like a calf, and the third beast had a face as a man,
and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle." These
regresent
the four grand divisions of the gospel church.
T e first represents the church in the apostolic age,
when the church went forth, bold as a lion, preaching
and proclaiming the goe I among all nations. The
second state or division of"the church was the times of
persecution and slaughter by the Roman emperors,
represented by the calf! The third state of the church
was in Constantine's day, when the church
ergofed
privileges as a man, and became independent, an ike
a natural man, proud, avaricious, and worldly. The
fourth and last state of trial was when the anti-Christian
beast arose; and, under the scourge ofthis- abomination,
the church
having
two wings given her, like the wings
of an eagle, she ew into the wilderness, where, a place
being prepared for her, she is nourished from the face of
the serpent a thousand two hundred and threescore
da s, Rev. xii.6, 14. A
This of course would include the whole Christian
church until Christ's second coming, when anti-Christ
will be destroyed, and the church delivered from all
her foes, and brought into her New Jerusalem state,
where John now sees in his vision the whole family of
the redeemed, singing the grand chorus as in the verses
follow' our text. "And I beheld, and I heard the
voice ldlgmany an els round about the throne, and the
beasts, and the elaine; and the number of them was ten
thousand times ten thousands and thousands of thou-
sands." In this vision John has thc same view which
Daniel had in his vision. See Daniel vii. 10. Daniel
saw the same throne, and the same numbers stood before
it; whidi proves, almost beyond a doubt thatDanie1's
vision carnes us into the eternal, immortal, and glorified
164 nscruu xr.
state; forJohn,inthenext verses, carries us mto the
eternal state ofthe righteous.
12thverse,"Sayingwitha loudvoice,Worthy isths
gb thrltd
was slain
rid
receive
poxer,
and
xéiches,
and
w' om., strength, honor,au ory, an
blessing'.
And every creature which is in hgven, and on the
egathéuand
under
thphearth,
and
inch
as
aremin
the sea,
thatare in em,heard sa
`
, eUmg`,and
honor, and glory, and power, be that sitteth
upon the throne, and unto the Lamb forever and ever.
And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and
twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth
forever and ever." Nothing can be more evident than
thatlohn here saw the whole family of the redeemed,
as they will be after the first resurrection; for he gives
the several situations of every part of the whole family
as
they actually were, that is, in body, or the situation
ot' their bodies at that very time when he was writing,
"every creature," that is, in person, in their bodies, as
they will be after the resunection; not all mankind, as
some vainly suppose, but those who a.re redeemed, or
who may hereatter be redeemed, "
out of every kindred,
and tongue, and people, and nation." See our text. If
it had been "
all nations," dw., he would not have said,
"out ot," &c. Theretbre we must take the whole in
connection. But John saw every creature whose bodies
then were some ot' them in heaven, as Enoch and Elijah;
every creature who was then alive on the earth, like him-
self and brethren; every body ot' the saints that had
slept and been buried under ground, or in the sea, and
all the saints who were yet in the loins of their fathers.
In one word, he saw the whole general assembly, and
church of the first hom, whose names were written iu
the Lamb's book of life. These four beasts are the same
living creatures which Isaiah saw when he had a view
of the glo of God. Isa. vi. l-3, "In the year that
king Uzziuilli died, I saw also the Lord sitting upon a
thmnu, high and lifted
up,
and his train filled the temple.
Above it stood the serap ims; each one had six wi :
with twain he covered his face, and with twainngllle
cnsxs'r's slcozm comme. 165
covered his feet, and with twa.in_ he did tl . And one
cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, hehis the Lord
of hosts; the whole earth is full of his lory." Ezehel
also saw the same
living creatures "se~
raphims," and John "four beasts." Ezekiel calls them
"
cherubims." See Ezek. i. and x. chapters. John says,
Rev. iv. 8, "
And the four beasts had each of them six
wings about him," the same as lsaiah's "seraphimsfi
These wings are the graces ot' the Spirit, as is strongly
implied
1?
Ezekiel i.12, "And they went evéry one
straight orward; whither the spirit was to go,
they
went; and they turned not when they went." "Wi
two they covered their face "-humilityand repentance;
"
with two they covered their feet "-that is, they walked-
by two of the
graces,fa.ith and patience, faith in God
and patientin mbulation; "
and with two they did fly 'l-
hope and love. They "mount up with wings as eagles;
they shall run and not be wea.ry, walk and not faint,"
says the prophet Isaiah, x1.3l. And again John says,
they were "full of eyes before and behind, and they
were tiill of eyes within;" sho
'
that they would
have just views of sin, of God, and his word, and of
themselves-: they could look back and see their sins,
and the pit from which they hadbeen delivered, and
with gratitude remember their Redeemer. They could
with eyes of titith look forward and believe in the
promises of God, and have a view of the
'glory
that
shall be revealed at his second coming. ith eyes
within, they could look into their own hearts, and see the
remaining corruption and hidden depravity that lie
lurk?
in every corner of the soul, and by this means
put o the old man with his deeds. They arerepresent-
ed by John as
being
pradyiing
souls, "and'_ golden vials
full of odors, which are e prayers of saints." Every
one had these vials, says John. How then, I ask, can
3 prayerlegs
man or woman
tojoin
gglestial
.
"
aving ev one m harps; wing
thailigl of them would elihayivepew hearts, be born of God;
so
they
would be enabled to sing in- the New Jerusalem
state enewso .
'
These are thengharacters and persons which John saw
`
IQ r.u:1-nun.
rqnsented by tk _har and trsenigelda-a and the fur
lab- I shall now,
ll. Showwlnt wemayunderstand bythe new
song,
mdtheoct
_
olifnithdbeenledb the lthrou
The J tl all
seven stages of the chureh,yby the vigsion of ti:
mystery ofthe seven stars and seven
iildencandlesticks,
under the name of theseven churn: es of Asia, which
ought to be understood symbolically down to the time
when the jndve stands at the door ready to enter in to
the supperofihe gmt God, when all wicked sein will be
destroyed, and till the marriage supper of the Lamb
arrives, when allthe
righteous
will be raised, enter into
the gloriied state and ive and
'
with him on earth.
Then it is
'girfeetly
natural that §er we had read the
history of church through all her trials, persecutions,
and imperfections, we should be led to see her deliver-
ance on the other side ofthe banks of Jordan, or beyond
thepowerof death,and to hearapart.,at least,ofthat
new song which no man can sing unless he is redeemed
hom the earth.
In the second and third chapters of Revelation, we
have the history of the church, as I have endeavored to
show in my lectures on the churches. In the fourthand
iitth chapters we have a view ot' the gloriied state, and
the characters given of those who will en' y the privilege
of that state, the song which will employ
tlfegoldenharps,
and the
'lpllace
where. The characters I ave already
Egan.
e
song is represented as a new . It is new
suse it is
sunsonly in that state where 31 things are
made new. See Pet. iii. 13, "
Nevertheless we, accord-
ing to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth,
wherein dwelleth righteousness." Rev. xxi.5, "
And he
that sat
you
the throne said, Behold, I make all thing!
new." ow John saw, in Rev. iv. 2, the same throne,
and him that sat upon
itiuand
in the verse above quoted
he speaks as
though he d mentioned before "
him that
sat upon the throne." And as he has not mentioned him
in this
language
in any other place, we may have strung
reason to elieve that the time and subject matter is the
same in the 4th chapter of Revelation as in the Sllst
cnars'r's szcosn counts. 167
chapter. Again: we are expressly told that no man
could learn the new
song, but those who are redeemed
from the earth, Rev. xiv. 3. And redemption from the
earth is no where spoken of until the resurrection of the
body. Christ says, in Luke xxi. 27, 28, "
And then shall
they see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power
and great glory. And when these things be in to come
to ass, then look up, and lift up
your
heads, for your
re¢l)em tion draweth nigh." And aul says, Rom. viii.
23, "l£'en we ourselves groan within ourselves,
waiting
for the adoption, to wit, the redemption of our bodies
In this state they can sin ,
"
For thou west slain, and
hast redeemed us to Gog by thy blood, out of every
kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation." It is also
u holy
song;
for they c ,
"
and rest not day and night,
saying, Ho y, holy, holyrlnrdGod Almighty, which was,
and is, and is to come." The church in this state are
not all holy; they have but a faint view of the holiness
of God's character, his law or government; neither could
they endure the sight; for when God has seen tit to re-
veal a small part. of his holiness, men have fainted under
it. Isaiah cried out, "Woe is me." Ezekiel fell upon
his face, Ezek. i. 28. Daniel's comeliness was turned
into corruption, so that he retained no strength, Dan.
x. 8. Therefore it is evident that this holy song can
only be sung in a state of immortality, when we shall
be holy, even as God is holy. This new and holy
song
will not cease, for they rest not day and night, whic
proves it to be in the eternal state. And the dress and
crowns of the elders, "clothed in white raiment," and
they had on their heads "
crowns of gold," and they
"cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Thou art
worthy, O Lord, to receive glory, and honor, and power" -
all proves that the new song is sung ether the second
coming of our Lord Jesus Christ; for Paul tells us, that
a crown is laid up for him which the
righteous Judge
shall give him at that day; and not only im, but to all
them also that love his appearing. So neither the elders
nor the beasts can sin this new song until the New
Jerusalem is formed, their bodies redeemed from the
earth, and they brought into the eternal state of the
168 morons n.
righteous. It will not he sung until the last child is
born into the kingdom-the last enemy conquered-
the elect gathered from the four winds of heaven, and
the
cap stone brought forth, when the heavem will
ring with this general chorus. "-Holy, holy, holy is the
Lord God Almighty ; blessing, and honor, and glory, and
power, be unto him that siueth upon the throne, and
unto the Lamb forever and ever; and the four beasts will
say, Amen."
III. I shall now show the reign spoken of in our text,
and the place where.
There is much speculation at the present
da!
on the
reign of Christ on the earth, which is promise in his
word, and in the text. Some have
supposed that it
would be purely spiritual, by the Holy Spirit's induence,
when all, or a large share of mankind who then should
he on the earth, would be regenerated and become the
subjects of his
spiritual kingdom; that there would be
no
temgting
devi to deceive, nor any kingdoms on the
earth, ut what would be subject to Chnst's spiritual
reign, and the church would enjoy along Sabbath ol'
rest; and the long-desired period of some who profs:
to be the servants of Christ would come; when church
and state would be united, and war would cease to the
end ofthe world, and the world wouldincrease in riches,
arts, and science to an
amazing degree, beyond
any
thing
we have yet conceived; thousands would inha it the
earth where there are but tens now, and man would live
In s
good old age, and nations be born in a
day. This
theory is the most rational one I have been able to dis-
cover, aside from the glorious reign of Christ with his
people in a state of immortality.
To the above theory I have many scriptural objections.
Although the advocates of this theory call it spiritual,
yet a large share, if not all, are temporal blcssmg-s ot'
this kingdom, and are exactly the same that the Jews
believed they should possess at Christ's tlrst coming.
Again: they must suppose, if this hc true, that the
ru ers of tho world must all be Christians, or prnfcssedly
so. 'l'hen what must We
say to Christ's words, "
My
kingdom ls not of this world"? and again, "ln the
caius'r's sxcozm comme. IQ
world ye shall have tribulation "
P The world hate you,
and if ye live godly, ye shall snfer persecution, and
these (meaning the whole famil of the redeemed) have
come out of much tribulation. lilow could those millions
who are born or live in this happy period, come out of
great tribulation? But where do the advocates of the
above system prove their doctrine? Some pretend to
bring the same
passages in the Old Testament that the
Jews did, to prove their temporal
kingdom
over the
Gentiles, and do not see that much of e Old Testa-
ment
prophecy was, and has been fulfilled in its typical
sense. nd it is very easy to show that the passages
thefy] pretend to bring in the Old Testament were all
ful led_1800 years ago, _
.
But, if
thley
had believed in this theory, would not
some ofthe ew Testament writers have mentioned this
important period? I remember, when I was but a child,
of hearing an old minister of the gospel make a remark
like this:-" All the Old Testament prophecies," said
he, "which were not flxlfilled when Christ came in the
flesh, are carried into the New Testament, and further
explained." 1 then
thouglht
there was reason and pro-
priety in the remark; I ink so still, for the two wit-
nesses must and will agree. And where do the believ-
ers in this system bring us one word from Christ? Not
one. But we can show much to the contrary. The
parable of the tares and the wheat carries us to the end
of the world; and he expressly says, "Let them grow
together until the harvest." His prophecy andparables
in Matt. xxiv. and xxv. give us a prophecy until his
second coming, and not a word about a happy period
previously, but much about lo heres, and lo theres, and
wicked servants beating and bruising their fellow-ser-
vants, and eating and drinking with the drunken, saying
in their hearts, My Lord delayeth his coming. Can this
be a millennium? No. '1'oo much devil in such con-
duct as this. Where does Paul, avery prominent writer,
give us a hint of these important things? He must have
understood the Old Testament as well as some, if not
all, of our modem divines. But he, too, has given the
reverse. In epistle to the Thessalonians, he tells ns
1
|70 Lzcruu xr.
'
ploainly,
"
Then shall that wicked he revealed, whom the
rd shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and de-
stroy by the bri htness of his coming," 2 These. ii. In
his 2 These. i., he tells them ofthe necessity of patience
and faith in all their persecutions and tribulations; which,
he says, is a manifest token of the righteous judgment
of God; and then goes on to show Christ's coming, and
destruction of an ungodly world;
nothinlg
that looks like
a millennium in this, or any part of Pa 's writings, be-
fore Christ's second coming. Where, then, shall we
find it in the New Testament?
Perhags they may say
in Rev. xx.; but this chapter can never e iven to them
until they do away the first resurrection; Ear all in that
chapter is after the first resurrection, and, of course, is
after the personal and second coming ofthe Savior; and
all the arguments to do away or destroy the word resur-
rechbn are so futile and weak that it needs no argument
to rotiite them; ibr what could do it in that place might
in
every
other case, and we should be Sadducees at
once. ames, Peter, and Jude mention the last days in
their epistles, and describe them as being ver wicked,
yet make no mention of a day of the spread oiythe os-
pel in this wonderful manner. James speaks of their
heaping up treasures for the last days. "Behold, the
hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields,
which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth ; and the cries
of them which have reaped are entered into the cars of
the Lord of Sabaoth. Ye have lived in pleasure on the
earth, and been wanton: ye have nourished our hearts
as in a day of slaughter. Ye-have condemnedand killed
the just; and he doth not resist you. Be tieut, there-
fhre, brethren, unto the coming of the Lorrizlfor the cunn-
ing ofthe Lord draweth nigh." Can this be the millen-
nium? No! unless pmud, earthly pleasure, wantonness,
and murder, are the spirit of their millennium. Yet, if
it is temporal, this would be the most likely fruits, if we
judge ofthe future by the past; for the greater the tem-
poral blessings, the greater is man's rebellion. Read
the second and third chapters of 2 Peter, where he ex-
pressly speaks of the lust days. "Knowing this first,
that there shall come, in the last days, aeoferl, walking
cmus'r's sscoim comma. 171
after their own lusts, and saying, Where is the promise
of his coming?" dw., a
eing with what Christ said the
wicked ministers wouldg-li; doing when he comes. They
would say in their hearts, My Lord delayeth his coming.
Can there he this happy time described in the above
theory? All must answer, No. Then let this sudice as
answer to the above theory, until our o ponents prove
their own sentiments by the word. Thiere are many
more branches of the above system, but none that I have
seen but are liable to the same objections.
I shall now undertake to prove that this reign is in the
immortal state, after the resurrection; that Christ will
be present with his people, and, of course, personally,
and that it will be on the earth.
I. Then I am to prove that it will be immortal after
the resurrection.
The present reign is called, in Scripture, a
reign of
grace; "So might
grace reign through righteousness
unto eternal life, by esus Christ our Lord." This rei
has been ever since Christ was in the world, for 18%
years past. We shall now show that this
reign
must
continue until aher the resurrection of the de See
1 Cor. xv. 23-26; "But every man in his own order;
Christ the first fruits, (resurrection ;) afterwards they that
are Christ's at his coming. Then cometh the end, when
he shall have given up the kingdom to God, even the
Father; when he shall put down all rule, and all author-
ity and power. For he must reign till he hath put all
enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be
destroyed is death." Here we have plain Scripture that
the same reign of grace must continue unto etemal life;
a-nd. in the other text, until the resurrection of them that
are Christ's, and death, the last enemy to the church, is
destroyed. Where, then, shall we get in a spiritual or
temporal reign? We see evidently there is no chanve
of the
reign
of Christ in the gospel or grace, from the
apostles'
as
until the time comes-when the saints shall
pimssess
the
`¥dom
in the immortal state. Paul says,
om. v. 17, "
or if
lg
one man's offence death reigned
by one, much more ey which receive abundance of
172 Lacfuun
grace
and ofthe g-itt
ofiiilghteousnes,
shall reign in life
y one, Jesus Christ." ere the saints are promised to
reign
alter the gilt of righteousness, (which the righteou
Ju e shall give all those who love his appearingat tlnt
days in life, that is, etemal life. See 21st verse. 1 Pe-
ter v. 4, "And when the chief Shepherd shall appear,
Ee
shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away."
his must, of course, be in the immortal state, for it
fadeth not away.
II. That Christ will be present with
hiipeoplp
ina
state of immortality, can hardly he doub w n we
read such texts as these:-John xii. 24, "If any man
serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there also
shall my servant be." Again, John xiv. 3, "And if l
go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and
receive you to myself; that where I am there ye may be
also." So much fbr Christ's promise to his disciples.
And now let us read his prayer to his Father on this
point, John xvii, 24, "
Father, I will that they, also,
whom thou hast given me, be with me where I am, that
they may behold my glory." Paul says, 1 Thess. iv. 17,
"
And so shall we ever be with the Lord." "
For it doth
not yet appear what we shall be; but we know that
when he shall
appear,
we shall be likehim; for we shall
see him as he is. Our text says,
"
And hast made us
unto our God kings and priests." Rev. xx. 4, 6, "And
the-K
lived and reigned with Christ." "And shall reign
wi him." xxi. 3, "And I heard a
great
voice out of
heaven, saying, Behold,the tabernac e of God is with
men, and he will dwell with them, and the shall be his
people, and God himself shall be with them, and be
their God."
III. "And we shall reign on the earth," says our text
Not under its present dispensation, but aherit is cleansed
by tire; atter the wicked are destroyed by fire, as the
antediluvians were by water, after the resurrection of the
saints, and when Christ's
pnrzlyer, taught to his disciples,
shall be answered, "
Thy
'
bedoncon earth, even as in
heaven." Vhen the bnde has made herself ready, and
married to the hridegroom, ho will then move her into
cnars'r's sncorm comme. 173
thu New Jerusalem state, prepared as a bride adomed
for her husband, where we shall reign with him forever
and ever on the new earth and in the new heavens;
"and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes,
and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor
crying, neither shall there be
any
more pain; for the-
former thin s are passed away. Then the whole
earth "
shallae tirll of his glory ;" and then, as sa s the
prophet Isaiah, liv. 5, "
For thy Maker is thine husband;
the Lord of Hosts is his name; and thy Redeemer, the
Holy One of Israel; the God of the whole earth shall
he be called."
`
And then, my dear bearer, if you have had your heart
broken od' from sin; if you have by faith been united in
spirit to the Lamb of God; if you have patiently endured
tribulation and persecution for his name,-then you will
live and reign with him on the earth, and this earth will
be regenerated by tire and the power of' God, the cursed
destroyed, sin, pain, crying, sorrow, and death banished
from the world, and mortality clothed
répon bly
immor-
tality, death swallowed up in
victory. ou wi I rise
13:
in that general assembly, and clapping your hands wi
jog, cry,
"
Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God
Almighty,
w ich was, and is, and is now came." Then you wil be
in a situation
toljoin
the grand chorus, and sing the new
song,
sntying,
"
hou art worthy, for thou wast slain, and
hast re eemed us to God by t.hy blood, out of every
kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation, and hast
made us unto our God kings and
priests,
and we shall
reign on the earth, saying, with a ond voice,
Worthy
is
the Lamb that was slain to receive power, and ric es,
and wisdom, and strength, and honor, and glory, and
blessing." And all who meet in that grand assembly
will be then heard to shout,
"Blesszi
and honor, und
glory, and power be unto him that sitt upon the throne,
and unto the Lamb forever and ever." And methinks I
can now see every one who loves our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ in this assembly, rising upon their feet, and
in one united
prayer
of faith, crying,
"
Come, Lord Jesus.
0 come
quickly.
5 »
174 _
nncruna xx.
But you, O impenitent man or woman, when will
you be then?
all/hen heaves shallmplesoulrpd x
mihtso,an dz.sta.n`tremss eco
sogndfwhgge, tell me, where will you be then ? Ba hd!!
ytlplgilk! éplull!
a.
dreadfirlwprdl
Once more
tlirtrzkl
n !li 'ngu our e es, ei intorment.
sinner; think! X; llell! where shallfbe weeping,
ing, and
gnashingifteiethiwugtop, stopi; comij;
on your atter en n . "w ere e out
false prophet a.re,"and shall be tormented and
:Hit
forever and ever. I entreat of
you
to thi -an !
1 know you hate to hear the wor It sounds too harsh.
There is no music in it. You say it grates
upon
the
ear. But think, when it grates upon the soul, e con-
science, and the ear, and not by sound only, but sf dread
'.§Zii$Z.;.`Xi'§".Z"§2°p§f" 55"'$?ru'°¢i.'.l§°'uu'*°.k,°°°'°"'i»"'¢\{'.§
v °
Yea' °
warning, ofa
:hhousand pthers, perhaps
of hpur,
many more at are ost; yes, worse ost,
have been squandered in earthly, vain, and transitory
mirth, have been abused; for there have been many hours
the Spirit strove with you, and you prayed to be excused
There was an hour when conscience spake ; but you
stopped your ears and would not hear. There was a
time whenjudgment and reason whispered; but you soon
drowned their cry by calling in some aid against your
own soul. To jud ent and reason you have opposed
will and wit, and saiilzin hell," was
only in the grave. In
this va.\n_c1tade1, on this frail house of sand, you will
build. until the last seal is broken, the last trump will
sormd, the last woe be pronounced, and the last vml be
pouredlpponatkheearth.
1Then,impenitentman or woman,
you w aw e in ever astm woe .
Be
wa.rned;Crepent; tlykiyfplrnsuccor
to the ark of
God, to Jesus hrist, the b t once was slain., that
you might live, for he is worthy to receive all honor,
power,
and glory. Believe, and you shall live. Obey
us word, his spirit, his calls, his invitations ; there is no
time for delay ; put it not nfll I beg of you ; no, not for :\
moment. Do you want to join that heavenly choir and
'
mms'r's neon comme. 175
sing the new
song 3 Then come in God's
agpointed
way ; repent. Do you want a. house not ma e with
hands, ebemal in the heavens P Then join in heart and
soul this happy people, whose God is the Lord. Do you
want an interest m the New Jerusalem, the beloved
city ? Then set your face as e ilint Zion-ward ; become
afpilgrim
in the good old
vga.
"
Seek iirstthe kmgdom
o heaven," says Christ, "
then all these things shall
be added unto you."
'
LECTURE XII.
-1_
IBV. v. 5.
And one of the eldersnlthunto mo, Weep not: &bdd, un um ,(
metriba U dahths 1 fDo 'd huh
.,.,..,..,:..a,..;..;°°....°....,:.L¢ °"'°"°"~°~=°~'-~°°~
Tm: book of Revelation has been called by tnqqgndg
a sealed book; and many a dear saint, while in this im-
rfect state ol' vision and knowledge, has wept mu¢h,
Ezcause they could not read and understand the book,
For it is very evident that the book of Revelation is not
only interesting in its symbolical and mystical descrip-
tions, natural scenery, and figurative language, but ig i,
rich in truth, and the communication of events then hid
under the veil of futurity, and would only be unfolded
to the natural visions of men, many to come. John
has written this book after the laws ogesnature; that ig,
he has seemed to copy utter some of the richest and
most picturesque scenes in nature's laws. He has, in
reveali truths to our minds, followed the same
steady
coursengxat fountains ol' water do in their course to the
sea. He begins as it. were back upon the mountum,
where the head may be but a fountain, and there gives
us a description of the source. He then glides ndy
along through the vale below, winding between MSand
mountains, visiting in his course the hamlet! of the
peasant, the villages of men, the populous towns and
cities ol' commerce, until he lands us or leaves us in the
ocean of etemit . At first, he appears to be describing
mme bubbling or gentle spring, and swelling
I
cnars-r's noon comme. 177
in importance as he proceeds, brings in and adds every
important stream of event, deepens and widens in his
course, until he makes his prophetic history like a deep-
ilowing river, bearing upon its bosom_the gallant
ships
and galley with oars. At first, he describes a pebb y
brook murmuring along the hills, now and then bursting
into view with some gentle fall, then
lgllidi softly
away, until it meets some rugged head- d,n51iits its
course, and almost seems to retrace its path; then, sud-
denlfy bursting from the hills in cataracts of foam, bound-
ing rom rock to rock, leaping into the vale below, he
again seems to follow .the alluvial flats and receives his
tributary streams, winds on his way, until it falls at its
mouth by a tremendous leap into a
gulf of waters, and
is swallowed
lg
in the waves of the sea.
Four times e Revelation seems to bring us down in
this manner, as though he had hegim on one mountain,
and traced four diferent streams ot' downto the
great ocean of
eternity;
like the river o Eden, which
watered the garden, ecoming four heads of four
great
rivers, which watered and encompassed the whole and,
diferent points of the compass, but falling at last
into e ocean, Gen. ii. 10-14; and all these having
seven tributary streams in their course. The seven
churches of Asia. is a history of the church of Christin
her seven forms, in all her windings and
turnintgs,
in all
her prosperity and adversity, fiom the days of e apos~
ties down to the end of the world. The seven seals are
a hi tory of the transactions of the powers and kings of
the earth over the church, and God's protection of his
people during the same time. The seven trumpets are
a history of seven peculiar and heavy
judgments
sent
upon the earth, or Roman kingdom. An the seven
vials are the seven last plagues sent upon Papal Rome.
Mixed with these are many other events, woven in like
tributary streams, and filling up the grand river of
proph-
ecg,
until the whole ends us in the ocean of
etern1t{;m
his, to rne, is the plan of
John's£r'Zphecy
in the k
of Revelation. And the man who
'
es to understand
this book, must have a thorou hknowledge of other parts
ofthe rordofGod. The iiggures andmetaphorsused
|78 nncruan xn.
in this prophecy, are not all explained in the same, but
must be found in other prophets, and explained in other
passages of Scripture. Thereibre it is evident that God
has designed the study of the whole, evento obtains
clear knowledge of any part. I shall then pursue the
following method :-
I. Explain the book which was in the right hand of
him who sat on the throne.
II. Give the history of the seven seals, and their
opening.
I. I am to explain what is meant by the book.
The book is ohen spoken of in the word of God.
Sometimes we hear it spoken of as alittle book, open,
in the hands of the angel ; and sometimes it is command~
ed to be sealed np; and sometimes to be unloosed, as in
our text. The question arises, What canthis book mean?
It cannot mean the book of Revelation, for John was
commanded notto seal the sayings of this book, Rev.
xxii. 10. Neither could it be the
gmarophecies,
for they
were commanded to be read every b th day by the
Jews, and were so read. Yet John tells us, in our con-
text, "That no man, neither in heaven, nor in earth, nor
under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to
look thereon; and I wept much, because no man was
found worthy to open and toread the book, neither to
look thereon." We see, plainly, that it could not apply
to the law, nor the prophets, to the Old or New Testa-
ments, for these were committed to the Jews, and also
unto us Gentiles, and were to be read by all men; but
this book they could not
open,
read, nor look thereon.
There is one more book w ich answers to John's de-
scription, which no man, neither in heaven, nor on earth,
nor under the earth, has yet been able to look thereon,
or open and read, as we have any account of; and which,
according to the whole tenor ofthe Scripture, will never
be opened, read, or looked upon, until the last seal is
broken, and the judgment sits. "And I saw the dead,
small and great, stand before God; and the books were
opened; and another book was
Tened,
which is the book
and the dead were ju sed out of thosethingl
wlnchwerowrittaninthebooks. lnthisbook, which
cn}us'r's slconn colnne. 179
is called the book of lv:/E, the names of all the redeemed
in heaven, in earth, or. under the earth, are written,
which are not known to any man, neither willbe known,
until the last seal is broken `open ;- for the judgment will
declare who is on the Lord's side. For the apostle tells
us, plainly, "
Our lives are hid with Christ in God; that,
when he
appears,
then we shall
appear with him in lo-
ry." And ohn tells us, Rev. xxx. 26, 27, "And tiey
shall bring the glory and honor of the nations into it,
and there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that
defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or
maketh a lie; but thqi/ which are ll/|'l:tf¢1'l in the La1nb's
book of
l%."
"And whosoever was not found written
in the boo of life, was cast into the lake of fire."
Aiain:
"And they whose names were not written in the ook
of life, from the foundation of the world, shall wonder,"
&,c. This book, although we are
abundantly informed
there is one, in the right hand of him that sitteth
um
the throne, no man, as wo are any where informed,
been able to look upon it, or open it, or to read its con-
tents. This, then, is the book, on account of which
John we t. to know its contents. And so it has been
with all (ghristians. They are anxious to know whether
their names are written in the La.mb's book of life. But
you must 'first learn, my dear brother in Christ, to live by
faith ; and faith, too, founded on the hook in which you can
look -
of which you may, read the romises, the proph-
ecies, and commands. But into thelmook of life you can
never look, until the Lamb of God shall open the seventh
seal, and the righteous dead be raised, to meet with the
dear Savior in that world of lory, when the book will
be opened in the presence otgthe universe, and he will
own you as his, and crown you with joy unspeakable and
full of glory.
II. I shall now give the history of the seven seals,
with the time of their o
ening. Afterthe prophecy of
the seven churches, in tlie 2d and 3d chapters of Reve-
lation, John has a view of the heavenly host, singingthe
grand song, and gives us a description of the heavenly
choir, and a part of the song. He likewise introduces
the book, sealed with seven seals, and shows who can
180 LIUTURI ln.
open tho book, in the fourth and iihh chapters. These
we have attended to, in a former lecture.
We shall now
bei?
with the sixth chapter, lst versa,
"
And I saw when Lamb opened one of the seals;
and I heard, as it were the noise of thunder, one of the
four beasts, saying, Come and see. And I saw, and be-
hold, a. white horse, and he that sat on him had a bow;
and a crown was given unto him; and he went forth
conquering and to conquer." The "
beast," in this pss-
sage, is the first, which was like a lion, representing the
church in its 'first state, in the. days of the apostles, when
the church went every where, preaching the word, bold as
a lion. The white horse, and him that sat upon him,rep-
resent Jesus Christ
going
forth in the power of the gos-
pel. This is prove by the passage, Rev. xix. ll-13,
"
And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse;
and he that sat upon him was called Faithfull and True,
and in righteousness he doth judge and make war. His
eyes were as a flume of fire, and on his head were many
crowns; and he had a name written that no man knew
but he himself, and he was clothed in a vestnre di ped
in blood; and his name is called The Vord of GPod."
This is the same personage as the other, and both places
represent the same thing, only the first description is rep-
resenting the spread of the
tglospel
in the beginning of
the gospel day, the other at e end of the gospel period,
under which we are now
living. Therefore the (irsteeal
opens with the promulgation of the l, as the last
will be closed by the same. 3d and ith verses,
"
And
when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second
beast say, Come and see. And there went out another
horse, that was red; and power was 'von to him that
sat thereon to take
"peace
from the earg, and that they
should kill one uno er; and there was given unto him a
great sword." The red horse denotes blood and carnage,
and has reference to the times of persecution in the da
of Nero and other Roman emperors, and answers to tg;
same time as the Smyma church. "
Given unto him a
Seatsword," shows that the power would have great ln-
ority. The second beast spoken of in this is
the representation of the church, which was like a call;
ClllSf'C sheen coumo. 181
showing that the church would be given to the slaughter,
like a calf fstted fa' the market, during the period of the
opening ot' this seal, which period lasted until about A.
D. 318, when Constantine put a period to the persecu-
tions of the
5th-and Gthverses, "And when he had opened the
third seal, 'l heard the third beast say, Come and see.
And I beheld, and lo, a black horse; and he that sat
upon him had a pair of balances in his hand. And I
heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A
measure of wheat for a. penny, and three measures of
barley for a
penny, and see thou hurt not the oil and the
wine, The third beast, which represents the church,
under this seal, had a face as a man, and shows that the
church would be like a
natural man, proud, haughty,
independent, seltish, ambitious, covetous, and worldly.
This seal was opened in the days of Constantine, when
religion became
popular,
and was a
stepping-stone to
power; and this sea agrees with the Pergamos church,
as to time and place. The black horse denotes error
and darkness; and when the church became connected
with worldly power and wisdom, she lost her
(purity
of
doctrine and practice, and
adlplpted,
in her cree , maxims
and principles congenial w` the natural heart, and
forms and ceremonies for show and parade, rather than
the humbling and
cross-bearing
life of the followers of
Jesus. The balances denote that religion and civil
power would be united in the person who would ad-
minister the executive power in the government, and
that he would claim the judicial authority both in church
and state. This was true among the Roman emperors,
from the days of Constantine until the reign of Justin-
mn, when he gave the same judicial power to the bishop
of Rome. The measures of wheat and barley for a
penny denote that the members of the church would
be eagerly engaged after worldly goods, and the love of
money would be the prevailing spirit of the times, for
they would dispose of' any thing for money. The oil
and wine denote the
graces
of the Spirit, faith and love,
and
thpre was
great anger of hurting these, under the
influence ot'
sgénuch worldly spirit. And it is well at-
189 r.r.e'rau m.
testsd,by all historians,thatthe prosperityofthechnrch
in this age produced the corruptions which finally ter-
minated in the falling away,and setting up the anti-
Christian abominations.
7th and 8th verses, "And when he had opened the
fourth seal, I heard the fourth beast say, Como and see.
And I looked, and behold, a
pagehorse, and his name that
sat on him was Death, and ll followed with him; and
power was
given
unto them over the fourth part of the
earth, to kil with sword, and with h , and with
death, and with beasts of the earth." The fourth seal
opened in the year A. D. 538, when anti-Christ first
arose,i`or the fourthbeastwaslikeatl ing le. "And
to the woman was given two wings 0?an eagge,that sho
might ily into the wilderness, into her lace, where she
is nourished for a. time, times, and a half, from the tice
of the serpent." The
pale
horse is named, in this pas-
sage, death. And hell ollowed, showing us
lainly that
it is the anti-Christian power which would) have the
ascendancy over one fourth part of the earth, during the
o ning of this seal. "Power was given unto them,"
sggws conclusively that it is the same power mentioned
in Rev. xiii. 2-5, "
And the dragon,gave
him his power,
and his seat, and great authority.
"
And there was
given him a mouth speaking great things and
hlastphe-
mies; and power was given unto him to continue ony
and two months." Again, 7th verse,
"
And it was
given
unto him to make war with the saints, and to overcome
them; and power was given him over all kindreds, and
tongues, and nations." ln our text he says,
"
Power was
given them to kill with the sword," that rs, to make war,
which was fulfilled in Europe, when the papal power
sent out large armies to exterminate the heretics, as
they were called, who would not worship the beast m'
his image. "And with hungor;" this was fulfilled by
the same power imprisoning and starving to death many
thousands of rsons who were suspected of
opposition
to her ungodf; pretensions.
"
And with doa ;" in-
venting the most cruel and bloody means of torture that
were ever imposed upon our
world; to inflict death, in
every possible shape that men or devils could invent
~
cnarsfs aiixozm course. 183
thousands and tens of suffered death under
the most excrnciatin torments that the Inquisition could
devise. "
And witg the -beasts ~of the earth ;
"
alter
they had glntted their thirst 'fbr blood in every.possible
shape that man could inflict, thousands were thrown to
ferocious beasts, to be destroyed b them. The time
and place of the opening -of this seal' we cannot be mis-
taken in. It must have been during the bloody and
persecutinglreign
ofthe papal church.
9th-=-11 verses, "And when he had opened the filth
seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were
slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which
they held ; and they cried with a. loud voice, saying, How
long, 0 Lord, holy and true, dost thou not Jud e and
avenge om- blood on them that dwell on the earthg And
white robes were given unto every one of them; and it
was said- unto them thatthey should rest yet for a little
season, until their fellow-servants _also, and their breth-
ren, that should be killed as they were, should be fuldl-
led." On the opening ofthe litlh seal, there is`no beast
to say,
"
Come and see," for this very good reason--the
church has not
changed
her position, and is yet in the
wilderness, like the ying eagle. Therefore, under the
fourth beast, the church is likewise under the control of
the same anti-Christian power as under the fourth seal,
but the diK`erence appears to be only in one
thing-the
church appears to enjoy a little respite from her persecu-
tinqenemy;
and it would seem by the
language
ofthe
sou s of the martyrs that they are now looking or a. day
of vengeance, which God hath promised
utpon
them who
worshipped the beast or his image; and e inquiry is,
How long bebre this day of vengeance will come? The
answer is given to these
prxéggng
souls to rest a little sea-
son, and they are informed re must be one more day or
little season of persecution, when their brethren must be
killed in like manner with themselves; and when that il
accomplished, they would then rience the last prom-
ise of God, the resurrection. Tile seal was opened
about the
l;i§inning
of the 18th century, A. D. 1700
when the bl y persecutions ainst Protestants ceased,
and the nations of the worldabegan to enjoy religions
heedom. _
,
184 Islcflm ml
12th-17th verses,
"
And I beheld when he had
T
edthesixthseakandlo, therewasa greatearthqn e.'
Ontheo
ningufthissealthereisagrmtmrthquake
This eulmuake is ken of in other p ces in this book
and alludes to the lgprgnch revolution; and .of course this
seal opened about A. D. 1790. "
And the sun becaml
black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as
blood." Sun sometimes denotes rulers or kings, as in
the case of Ioseph's dream, when the mn, moon and
stars made oheisuce to him, meaning his father, head
overall lsmel,hismother,and his brethren; for where
thek` iscalledt.hesun,thequeen is calledlheswon,
and igrior rulers are called stars, as Christ is called
sung/`righteeu.rn¢as,because he is kingof Zion. The
church is called the moon, because she is the bride of
Christ. Ministers are called stars because the are in-
ferior mlem in Christie kingdom. Therefore l under-
stand this to mean in that revolution when the king lcd
his authority, and tried to disguise himself] and fled from
his own subjects, alterwards was beheaded. The ueen,
too, became blood, and all the
nobilig
of France 'iell to
the earth. One decree levelled all ti es and distinctions
with the commonalty, like a iig-tree casting her untime-
ly figs. "And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth,
even as a Eg-tree cssteth her untimely figs when she is
shaken of a mighty wind. And the heaven departed as
a scroll when it is rolled together." The heavens must
mean that circle in which the planets move; and if that
is to be understood figmatively, so must this. Henem
must then mean the laws and government of hence.
These were all swept away, or rolled np and laid away
like an old parchment out of date or use. "
And even
mountain and island were moved out of their places*
Mountains and islands are figures of large and small
governments, and in the French revolution every gov-
emment_was removed from their legitimate sovereignl,
except E land., in the old Roman empire, and given to
kings ofngonapartds creation. And certainl all the
kingdoms in
Eumne
were changed from what t were
befom;soths.twenle'timacywasre¢ored, an-
kllIgl¢0UmMlD£ have not found theirkingdml
caaxs'r'| srconn eormm. 185
h the same situation they were in before the revolution.
"_And the kings ofthe earth, and the t men, and the
nch mei; and the chief captains, and the
mighty men,
and every bondman, and every freeman, hid emselves
in the dens, and in the rocks of the mountains, and said
to the rocks and mountains, Fall on us, and hide us from
the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the
wrath of the Lamb."
It is a well-known fact to all who are conversant with
the history of the French_ revolution, that almost every
king in Europe had to flee from his
kingldom durir;g
the
space of about five and twenty years: e o Por-
tugal ua Brazil; the kingofS Ill toFrance; ekingof
France iledto
England; the
lysinedied in exile ; the king
of left his
kinlgdoman
tied to the island of Sar-
dinia; the king of N
sag:
es tothe island of the same name;
the king ofAustrin l his ca ital ; and the
kinglof
Prussia
took shelter under Russia ; tieemperor of all e Russias
left Moscow to its fate; and Bonaparte himself tledto the
island of Elba, and died a prisoner on St. Helena. The
great men and chief captains, and all orders and
deigrees
of men, had to Hee from the land of their fathers, an seek
an asylum among strangers. So true was this passage of
Scripture fulfilled that many writers and divines actually
supposed that it 'was the last great battle and supper of
the great God. "
For the great -day of his wrath is
come, and who shall be able to stand ? "
The sixth seal
is not
Ist wholly
oigened;
for it is evident that we are
carrie down to e last day, the great day of wrath
which will immediately follow the sealing time which
he
lgives
us in the next chapter. ~
ev. vii. 1, "And after these things I saw four angels
standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the
four winds of the earth, that it should not blow on the
earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree." Daniel tells us,
vii. 2, "I saw in my vision by night, and behold, the four
winds of the heaven strove upon the
great
sea." The
four winds, then, means the
opposing
e ements, war and
contention. These principal e ements of war and con-
tention God would restrain for a little season, so they
should not fan up the spirit of war and strife, neither in
the Roman
giageanment, (called earth,) nor on the great
IH unuaaxm
nations,(ca.lled great sea,) moron indrvulmls or slmll
societies of
men,;_called trees;) and this has been re-
markably fullilled or twenty years past. Not a particle
of oppositionhas been experienced agaimtthe translaf-
tionandsprsad ofthe Bible,or tin ll1lHl01l1 cause.
Kings have been
nursinaefatbers,
and queem
nnrsig
mothers, to help forward cause of God. The wi
of Papacy has been kept down by the angel. so that all
the opposition the could raise has been weak and in-
efficient. The Mihometan wind has not blown a blad
ibr twenty years; the idolatrous and pagan mtions of
the East have, b some invisible power, been kept in
check; the iniidel and deistical
principles
of the Vest
have been held in complete su jection by the same
invisible hand, until the servants of God should be
sealed. Therefore, since the French revolution, nous
of these four winds of opposition to Christ lnve been
permitted to use any physical force, as
fomierli,
to sup-
press
the
ospread
ofthe
gostpel through the "And
saw an er angel ascen ing from the east.,having the
seal of the livin God; and he cried with a loud voice
to the four angei towhom it was
given to hurt the earth
and the sea." The angel here spoken of as ascending
from the east, is the angel standing on the land and onthe
sea, with s. little book o n, and the same that is
refpreseut-
edin another placess tgiingthrough the midst o heaven
having the everlasting gospel to preach to than who dwell
on the earth. Coming from the enst,the place of l` ht, and
having the seal ofthe living God, shows plainly mat it is
the angel of the gospel. The four angels arethe four mes-
sengers of God, who suppress those four opposition princi-
ples, until the sealing time shall be over,
"
saying, Hurt nut
the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have
sealed the servants of God in their forelteads." The
four angels are here commanded not to let these four
winds of opposition hurt the earth, sea, or trees, until
the sealin time is past, which is the same time spoken
ot§ Danief xii. 1, "Then shall Michael stand up, the
great Prince which stamleth lor the children nf thy
people."
"And l heard the number nf' them which wer!
sea ed; and them were sealed u hundred tbn and
four thousand of all the tribes ol' the childrenof lbraelf
I
I. 4
cnmsfis sscorm conmre. 181
John first gives us an account of the number that were
sealed in his day, out of all the tribes of Israel. They
wereseaIed,ashe tells us when
hewrote,it being
fin-
ished in the close of the Jewish dispensation. It eing
a complete number, 144,000, and therefore could be num-
bered; and as these were sealed at the close of that
dispensation, so John now saw in vision a great number,
which no man could number, sealed at the close of the
Gentile dis nsation, of which he has been pro hesy-
ing; for nil; he has gone
through
with
numbering
twelve thousand in every tribe, he t en says, Rev. vii.
9, "Aiberthis I beheld," that is, after this sealing, by
which 144,000 had been sealed among the Jews, he
beheld, "and lo, a
great multitude, which no man could
number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and
tongues, stood before the throne and before the Lamb,
clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands."
This evidently refers to the last sealing time among all
nations; for he again hears them singing the grand
chorus song, as at the close of the history of the seven
churches, "
And cried with a loud voice, saying, Salva-
tion to our God, which sitteth upon the throne, and unto
the Lamb. 'And all the angels stood round about the
throne, and about the elders and the four beasts, and
fell before the throne on their fa/ces, and worshipped
God, saying, Amen: blessing, and glory, and wisdom,
and thanksgiving, and honor, and power, and might be
unto our God forever and ever, amen."
This shows us that we are again brought down the
stream of time, to hear a part, at least, of the song
which no man can sing, but those whose bodies are
redeemed from the earth. "And one of the elders
answered, saying unto me, What are these which are
arrayed in white robes? And whence came they? And
I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest. And he said unto
me, These are they which come out of great tribulation,
and have washed their robes, and made them white in
the blood of the Lamb." This passage shows who
those were that John saw, and how they obtained the
honor and glory, which John saw them possessin ,
through great uibnlation, and the blood of the Lamg
"Therefore are they before the throne-of God, and
188 <
nxcruas nr.
serve him day and night in his temple: and he that
sitteth on the throne shall dwell amen them;" the
same as in Rev. xx; 6, "And they liveg and reigned
with him," in the New Jerusalem state; for he goes on
to describe this state of happiness, which John does in
Rev. xxi. 1-5, compared with the two follow' ,
and there can be no doubt on the mind that John isullg-
scribing the same in one place as in the other. "They
shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither
shall the sun
light on them, nor any heat. For the
Lamb, which is in the midst of the throne, shall feed
them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of
waters; and God shall
wise away all tears from their
eyes." There can be no oubt left on the mind of any
man, that John has, in these passages, given us a view
of the New Jerusalem in the immortal state. We have
been permitted to hear a. part of the new son , and have
received, in the
passagglust read, the blesses promises
contained in that belov city. And now, we only wait
for the last seal to open. "And when he had opened
the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the
space of halt' an hour." Zechariah says, ii. TJ, "Be
silent, O all flesh, before the Lord; for he is raised up
out of his holy habitation !
"
Habakkuk says, ii.20, "But
the Lord is in his
holy temple; let all the earth keep
silence before himi' From these passages I should
infer, that when God arises up to the prey, when his
great white throne is set in the heavens, and when the
Son of Man shall come in the clouds of heaven, with
power
and great glory, then will all flesh he silent
efore him. And it is reasonable to suppose that the
whole universe of rational beings who ma be permitted
to witness that grand scene, will be so filied with won-
der and awe at the sight of thc
gloiz
of God, that they
will be silent Then, too, will t e redeemed souls,
while the at Judge is separating them from the
wicked, whiliaethe are risin to meet their Lord in the
air, be silent. They will, like the children of Israel,
stand still, (be
.rilen!,l
and sec the salvation of God.
Anil tho wicked word, who have scofiiul at thc idea
of Christ's second coming, who have said, "Vhere is
the promise of his coming ?" and laughed and
cnaxs'r's szcozm comms. 189
culed the servants of Christ, who have cried to them, in
their midnight revels, "
Behold, the bridegroom cometh,"
will be silent. Then will those servants who have "
said in
their hearts, My Lord delayeth his coming," and "be-
gin t/o beat and bruise their _fellow-servants," who have
proclaimed his coming, "and to eat and drink with the
drunken," be silent. Then, too, will all the false
prophets, who have cried Peace, peace, when there was
no peace, be silent, when they see the frowns of' an
angry judge whom they have disregarded. Then
shall those who have promised the wicked life, though
heshould not turn from his wickedness, be silent. Then,
eve_ one found in that great assembl , when the Son
of §an,shall come in the clouds, and' all the holy angels
with him, and all the saints who have slept, and all na-
tions then shall be gathered before him, and every eye
shall see him; then, I say, will every one found in
this. vast multitude, not having on the wedding gar-
lipfng,
be silent; for the Scripture says,
"
He was
speech-
s-
'
»
»
And now, my dear friends, what say you P Have you
wept much to know whether our names are written m
the La.mb's book of life ? þÿ"!Gp
not,"'for "
behold, the
Lion of the tribe of Judah hath prevailed, to open the
book." And he says, "He that overcometh, the same
shall be clothedin white raiment; and I will not blot
his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his
name before my Father, and before his angels. There-
fore, "i-ejoice, because your names are written in
heaven," says the dear Savior.
'
But you, my impenitent friends, who have never-wept,
nor confessed your sins to God, who have been more
anxious to have your names written in the book of tame,
of worldly honor, ot' the riches of this world, than in
the book of life, remember, you too will weep when all
heaven is silent-when the last seal is broken-then
you will see the book, and your name blotted out.
Then ou will weep and_ say;
"
Once, my name
_was
there ;{ had a day of probation; life was proffered; but
I hated instruction, I despised reproofl and my part is
taken from the book of life. Farewell, happiness
farewell, hope! ./imen.
`
LECTURE XIII.
lEY.xL3.
Andlwill
°
wer to t °tnesses,a.nd!he shall
esyath|§1u;En'=,twuuh'und'rZd"Ta`.:|<Iv'threeseore day:
sacksloth.
T3
two
witneszhes
in our
textthhalvze caged
as much
tionamon ewriterson e ew estame|¢,as
:.i)1;'c~other passaggin the word of God. Some have sup-
Eosed
that it was 9 succession of orthodox divines, whom
od had raised up to witness to thetmth,
clung?
the
time speciiied, which all agree is twelve hund and
sixt years. And those writers who have taken this side
of the question, have endeavored to tind some favorite
divines, among their sect, answering to the description
given of the two witnesses. Upon this construction every
sect might claim the honor of giving tothe world the two
witnesses. And were this explanation true, instead of
two witnesses, we should have more than eight hundred;
for every sect must have a set, and I dare not
`
preii
erence to any. This would destroy the idea 5lm wil-
nessen at once.
Other writers have fixed on the church as the two,
clergy and laity; but here a.re many dimculties to en-
counter, the same as above. Every sect must have their
own church and
cler%,
or admit at once that they are
notthe true church. ut let us now come to the word
of God. And if the word of God does not explain the
"two witnesses," [shall despair of ever coming to the
u-uth on this subject, for I am commanded by Chrithim-
Ulftocallnomanmsster. Isha1l,then,
cnais'r's szcozm COMING. 191
I. Attempt to show what the Bible calls the two wit-
nésses.
II. What we
may understand by their being clothed
in
fhckiiiffh' ii n a <1
. eir isto , prop ec ,
an time speciiie
I. What is therhihle accohnt of the two witnesses?
Andyfirst, What is a witness? I answer, A witness is a
person, or legal instrument, testifying to the truth, the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth, on matters of fact
which are
supposed to be known no way but through tes-
timony, either oral or written. Oral testimony is
given
by a person who is sworn to tell the whole truth, as a ove,
and relate what he actually knows, by the medium of his
own senses, and no more nor less. The -apostles were
such witnesses; for they testified to the things which
Christ did in public. And when Judas fell by transgres-
sion, Peter informed his brethren that one must be cho-
sen,
"
of these men which have companied with us all the
time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, be-
`nning at the baptism of John, unto the same day that
E1 was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a
unlness with us of his resurrection." But these could not
be the "two witnesses;" for here were twelve: But we
learn by this history what a witness must be. He must
o in and out; he must know by actual observation, or
he could not
testi? any thing concerning Christ. That
was the manner o ora testimony in that day, and so itis
at the present. This, then, precludes the idea at once
of any men, or set of men, being Christ's witnesses at the
present day, or since the days ofthe apostles. But, says
the objector, does not the word of God call all Christians
witnesses for Christ? I do not know of any scripture
where Christians are called wvlnenes, except the proph-
ets and
apostles,
or inspired writers, that is, concerning
Christ. hey may witness a.
good profession, or they
ma witness for themselves, that they believe in Christ
or his word; but further they cannot go. They are not
witness either to the person of Christ, to his works, death,
miracles, or resurrection and ascension; and if there was
no other testimony but oral, we should be no better off
than the darkest Hindoo or most ignorant Hottentot.
192 :moron xin.
But, thanks be to God, he has not lelt us without a wit-
ness. There is a better testimony than all Christendom,
which is written; and it is this which I hold in my hand:
it is the word of God. It tells the truth; "for not one jot
or tittle of this word shall fail." It tells the whole truth,
"
that the man of God may be
perfectly
fiirnished to
every good work." It tells nothing but e truth; for it
is the truth indited by him who cannot lie.
You are well aware, -my friends, that written testimony
is considered in all courts, under all laws, to be stronger
than any oral testimony whatever. For instance, take the
last will and testament of any man; if it was written or
indited by himself, signed by his own hand, sealed with
his own seal, in presence ofwitnesses chosen by himsell;
and ratified by his death, no oral testimony can be brought
against it; unless the instrument itself shows some con-
tradiction or
discrepancy, it cannot be destroyed. So it
is with these two testaments, revealed, indited, contimicd
witnessed, and ratified, by the death of the testator, the
Lord Jesus Christ. And although wicked men and dev-
ils have endeavored to show some contradiction or dis
crepancy in its testimony, it has stood the shock of
ages, the~wi-eck of kingdoms, and will stand when these
heavens and this earth shall ass away with a. at noist
and the elements melt witll fervent heat; gi? by this
word we must all
beajudged; by these witnesses we shall
be 'justified or con emned. Christ says,
"
Search the
Scriptures; for in them ye think ye have ctemal life; and
they are they which testify of me." The angel tells John,
in the next verse
following our text. that the two wit-
nesses "are the two olive trees, and the two candlosticks
standing belbre the God ofthe earth." Tho angel, in his
allusion to the two olive trees, quotes the prophet Zech-
ariah, iv. 3, "
And two olive trees by it, one upon the right
side of the bowl, and the other upon the left side thercoll"
Here the olive trees are used in a figurative sense, and
properly denote the "
sons of oil," or the two cherubinl
which stood over the ark, and sprf-ad their wings over the
mercy seat. '1'he wings ofthe chcrubinis stretched from
either side of the house to the centre over the uicrcy seat,
and their faces turned inwards down upon the mercy seat,
csars:r's ssooim course.
IW
and the
'Ig-lory
of the God of Israel was above the cheru-
bims. hese cherubims are a lively type of the Old and
New Testament. The signiiication of cherub is "ful-
ness of
knowledge;"
so is the word of God, "that the
man of God
mayr
e
thoroughly furnished, perfect in every
good
work." hey have the whole truth, all we can
now about Jesus Christ in this state. They stand on
either hand of Christ, one befbre he came in the -flesh,
pointing to a Messiah to come, by all its types and shad-
ows; and like the cherub whose wings touched the outer
wall of the room and reached to the centre over the mercy
seat, so did the Old Testament reach from the creation
ofthe world down to John's preaching in the wilderness,
and like the cherub looking down on the mercy seat, it
testified of the Messiah. The other cherubim's wings
reached from the centre over the mercy seat, and touched
the other wallof the room, while his face was turned
back upon the mercy seat. So does the New Testament
begin at the preaching of John, and reveals all that is
necessary for us to know, down to the end of the world.
And all the ordinances ofthe New Testament house look
back to the sufferings, death, and resurrection of Jesus
Christ, and are to continue until his second
cominfg
and
end ofthe world. These cherubims were made o olive
trees, and overlaid with
&ure gold, 1 Kings vi. 23-28.
Again: the angel tells echarish what the two olive
trees are, Zech. iv. 4--6, "
So I answered and spake to
the angel that talked' wid: me,
sayinlg;
What are these,
my lord?" (the two olive trees.)
"
en the anoel that
talked with me answered and said unto e, lfnowest
thou not what these be? And I said, §o, m lord.
Then he answered and spake unto me, saying, This is
the word of the Lord unto Zerubabel," &.c. Here we
are plainly told that the two olive trees are the word of
the Lord, and the angel tells John, Rev. xi. 4, that "
the
two witnesses are the two olive trees and the two candle-
sticks." As candlesticks are the means of light, so is
the word of God. Candleatrbks are used in Scripture in
the same sense as And David
says,
"
Thy word is
a lamp to my feet an a
light to my pa ." Therefore 1
humbly believe that I have fairly and conclusively proved
194 ues-on xm.
-
that the two witnesses are the Old and New Testament.
And I will,
IL Show what we may understand by the two wit-
nesses being clothed in sackcloth.
Sackcloth denotes a. state of darkness, as in Rev. vi.
12, "
The _sun became black as sackcloth of hair ;" that
is, the sun became dark, invisible, and did not give its
light. Just so
durinithe dark ages of papal rule, the
word of God was dar ened by monkish superstition, big-
otry, and ignorance in its sacred principles. It did not
give its true
light,
because the laws, doctrines, and ordi-
nances were c
anged by the laws of the Latin church;
its doctrine was perverted by the introduction ofthe doc-
trine of devils and the anti-Christian abomimtions: its
ordinances were so altered as to suit the convenience of
carnal men; and it was obscured, because the common
people were forbidden to read it, or even to have it in
their houses, by the Papal authority. It was hid from
the world in a great measure; for the Papal beast, the
church ofRome, forbade its translation into any language
except the Greek and Latin, which languages ceased to
be spoken in the Roman govemment in the middle ofthe
sixth century. Sackdolh denotes great calamities and
troubles, as in the days of Hezekiah, 2 Kings, xix. 1, 2,
"When king Hezekiah heard (the threatening: of the
kinv of Assyria.,) he rent his clothes, and covered him-
self?with sackcloth ;" also, the Ninevites put on sackclolh
at the
preachipg
of Jonah, when their city was threat-
ened with a fin overthrow. So with the two witness ;
while they were clothed in sackcloth, it was a time of
great calamity and trouble to the people of God; rse-
cntion raged without any
mitigation
in some or alfgarts
of the Roman government, an the church ot' God, which
was fed and nourished by the "
two witnesses," during
her residence in the wildemess, was threatened with a
final destruction by the Papal armies, the inquisition, and
every other means that could be devised by wicked men
or devils. But God has preserved his word, through all
the
Ipersecutions
of the Roman power. I shall now,
I . Show their history, prophecy, and time speciied
ill the I-BSL
cn.rs'r's sncoxm course. 1%
lst. Their history, contained in Rev. xi. 5-13, inclu-
sive. Let me read and explain. 5th verse,
"
If any man
will hurt them, Ere proceedeth out of their mouth, and
devoureth their enemies , and if any man will hurt them,
he must in this manner be killed." If any man shall add
or take away from the book or revelation of God, "
God
shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out
of the holy city;" and "God shall add unto him the
plagues
that are written in this book." This verse has
een verihed in our day in the history of deistical France.
The rulers' of France, in the. revolution, proclaimed a
war of extermination against the {ishermen's Bible, as
they were pleased to term it; and within six
"guts they
exterminated themselves, the republic, and ost their
principles. The kingdom was
deluged in blood ; anarchy
was the law of the land; and the Jud ents denounced
by this word were
literally accompliilzd,so that deists
themselves stood appalle at the orror and conihsion
their own principles had brought upon their heaven-
daring crimes.
6th verse,
"
These have power to shut heaven,-that it
rain not inthe days of their prophecy." Allusion is here
had to "
the three years and a half," inthe days of Elijah.
when the heavens were shut up, Luke iv. 25, which is
the same time the witnesses prophesy clothed in sack-
cloth, 1260 days, forty-two months, thirty days to a
month; that being common time, and this prophetic.
The Scriptures are the means which God has made use
of to convert sinners from error to truth, from sin to
righteousness, and to convey the knowledge of grace,
(which in this verse is compared to rain,) to a lost and
perishing world. During the reign of anti-Christ, 1260
years, the church in the wildemess, and the two wit-
nesses clothed in sackcloth the same 1260 years, the
doctrine of ce in Jesus Christ was hut partially
taught. Mug:-'hf the _professedly Christian world have
been taught that doing penance, purchasing indul-
gences, obeying the holy Catholic church, or
performing
some outward act for pardon, would answer them heaven
and hap iness. But when the Scriptures began to be
read and)understood, and where the doctrine of grace in
lm LIUTUBI XIII.
Jesus Christ has been published by the translation and
circulation of the word of God, how different the scene!
Now, we can hardly find a Roman Catholic who will pre
tend that heaven is purchased by iniliction of bodilytnr-
ture, by doing penance, or by a monastic seclusion fran
the world; neither do we see them selling indulgences,
and promising the holders
pardon
for the most abomina-
ble crimes. And but rare y do we hear the infillibility
of' the mother, or holy Catholic church, advanced fiom
pulpit or
press. Why this mighty change in public sen~
timent? Because the
reign
of grace 18 not withheld;
the two witnesses are no onger clothed in sackcloth;
"Michael has stood up, that standeth for the children of
thy
peofple."
And the "angel is flying through the
midst o heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach
to them that dwell on the earth." "And have power
over the waters to turn them to blood."
gy waters, we
understand people; and by blood, wars. his text has
been amply fulfilled in the wars of lhrope,
fightinfbsar
religious tenets and ecclesiastical power, claiming ir
prerogatives from the two witnesses, and vrrestiug and
perverting the word of God to their own destruction.
"
And from thence come wars, tumulls, fightings," be-
cause they unde-rstxnd not. "And to unite the earth
with all plagues, as often as they will." In Old Testa-
ment times, it was the word of God, thmugh Moses and
Aaron, that smote Egypt with the ten pl es, and
through Joshua the Canaanites. So, in Newxgteismment
times, the seven last plagues, and the three woes, are
denounced against the anti-Christian beast, who dwells
on and has great power over the earth. "As often as
they will," meaning as often as
they have phesied of
them, so often will the plagues be sent. mt one jot or
tittle of the word of God will fail.
7th verse, "And when they shall have finished their
testimony," that is, when the 1260 years are about ful-
filled, the "beast that ascendeth out of' the bottomlx
Rin"
this beast is the same as the little horn, Papal
ome, and is said to ascend out of' the bottom] pit,
because it is founded on error. The principls hugh!
by in beast were Int Paganism, and ended in Di,
cn|ua'r'a sxcorm comme. 197
which are not built on the word of God ;' and, therefore,
have no foundation, and may truly be said to be "
bottom-
less." "
Shall make war
against them." The govern-
ments, under the authority of Papal Rome, shall en-
deavor to exterminate the "
two witnesses," the word of
God. "
And shall overcome them, and kill them;" have
power over them, pass laws or edicts against them, and,
ly
this means, destroy their usefulness, life, and activity.
or where the Scri tures are not read, and believed in,
they become a dead)letter; but when read, and believed,
"
they are spirit, they are life," John vi. 63.
8th verse, "And their dead bodies shall lie in the
streets of the great city, which spiritually is called
odom and
Egypit,
where also our Lord was crucified."
This verse teac es us, that -the word of God would be
made a dead letter,
bfy
the authority of one of the prin-
cipal kingdoms out o one of the ten into which the Ro-
man govemment was divided, and that the would be
guilty of the same sins that Sodom and were
guilty of; and, also, of crucifying our Lord, t is, in a
s iritual sense. This will apply to France in particular.
Iprance, revious to, and in the French revolution, was
ilt ofPSodomitish sins; she also had held in bondage,
gnc Egypt, the people of God ;, and, in France, Christ
had been crucified afresh in his people, on St. Bartholo-
mew's eve, A. D. 1572, when 50,000 Huguenots were
murdered in one night. The people of God are called
Chri t's spiritual body, 1 Peter ii. 5, Col. i. 24.
9th verse,
"
And they of t.he
people,
and kindreds, and
tongues, shall see their dead odies three days and a
halt, and shall not suffer their dead bodies to be put
in graves." This decree, or edict, should be generally
known among all nations; and although they could not
prevent the witnesses from lying in the streets of the
great city three years and a half, yet the nations about
them would prevent the Scriptures from being buried,
or put out of sight.
10th verse,
"
And they that dwell upon the earth shall
rejoice over them, and make merry, and shall send gifts
one to another, because these two rophets tormented
them that
dweltlgaon
the earth." vt); learn by this text
'
F
196 x.nc~ruaa_ xm. _
that the nation, who would suppress the reading of the
word of God, would make great rejoicings upon this oc-
casion, and congratulate each other upon the destruction
of the Bible, as they would suppose, for this reason, be-
cause the doctrine and precepts of the Bible would be
hateful and disagreeable to them.
11th verse,
"
And aher three days and a hall, [year|,]
the spirit of life from God entered into them, and they
stood upon their feet; and great tear fell upon them
which saw them." After the Bible would be dormant
three years and a halt, God would so order in his provi-
dence, that they would again be permitted to be read
and enjoyed as usual, and the Bible would again stand
upon its own foundation, or merits, and would
have their bearing on the hopes and fears of mankind,
and the governments of the world, and their enemies
would see it and tremble.
12th verse, "And they heard a great voice from
heaven, saying unto them, Come up hither; and they aa-
cended up to heaven in a cloud, and their enemies be-
held them." -This verse shows us that many voices
would unite in calling for a
ieneral spread of the Bible
through the world, and that e Bible would be exalted
among the nations, and great multitudes of them circu-
lated, and the enemies of the word of God could not
prevent it. Here we have a plain and distinct prophecy
of the Bible societies.
13th verse, "And the same hour was there a
great
earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and in the
earthquake were slain of men
[names or titles] seven
thousand, and the remnant. were
aili-ighted, and gave glo-
ry tothe God of heaven." At the same hour the wi!-
nesses would be slain, there would be a
great revolu-
tion, and one of the ten kingdoms, which had given their
power and support to the Papal beast, would fall; and
seven thousand names, or titles of nobility, in chnrch
and state, would be destroyed; and this revolution
would produce reat fear among the nations, and some
would acknowletfge that the word was
llillilling, and God
was
producing these wondertiil events. Here we again
see exactly depicted tho French revolution, and its ati
-
l.
cnais'r's SECOND comma
'
IN
feets; and we cannot but see that the whole of this
prophecy has been literally fiiliilled.
ln the beginning ofthe sixth century, about A. D. 538,
Justinian, emperor of Constantinople, in his
controversy
with the Arians, and other schismatics in the Gree'
church, .constituted the bishop of Rome head over all
others, both in the western and _eastern churches, who,
by his authority, suppressed the reading of the Bible by
laymen, pretending that they could not read and under-
stand without the assistance of the clergy. Abouttlns
time, too, the Latin -language ceased to be
spoken
in
Italy, and the Greek and Latin both became end lan-
guages. The Bible at that time not being writt/en or
translated into any other languages inEurope, it became
an easy task for the bishop to obscure the doctrine and
discipline of the word of God, so far as suited his con-
venience, and to obtain universal power over the minds
and consciences of men, and clothe the Scri tures in
sackcloth. If; then, the Scriptures were first cliothed in
sackcloth in A. D. 538, and were to prophesy 1260 years
in this situation, their prophecy would end in 1798.
About the close of the eighteenth century, in conse-
quence of the abominable corruptions of the church ot'
Rome being exposed to public view, the men of the
world began to treat revelation as a fiction, and religion
as priestcrah; and instead of searching for the pillar
and ground of the truth, "their imaginations became
vain, and their foolish minds were darkened." They
declared war against the Bible., the "two witnesses,"
which war became general all over Europe and America.
Some of the most eminent and principal writers in this
controversy were in France, the principal kingdom
among the ten, into which Rome had been divided at
the close of the fihh century; and so successful were
these writers, that almost the whole nation of the French
became Deists, or Atheists, in a short time. This na-
tion had long been guilty of the abominations of the
anti-Christian beast, the sins of Sodom and Egypt, and
the persecution of those who protested against her na-
tional corruptions: the slaying of the witnesses; their
lying in a deadstate three years andahalfintho street
200 ncruaa xm.
of the great city; thc_ revolution
spoken
of this proph-
ecy-all happened in the Frenc revolution, between
the years 1793 and 1798. A decree was' passed b the
council and directory of France, prohibiting the Bible
to be read in public, in any of the chapels in France,
and Bibles were gathered in heaps, and bontires were
made of them, and great rejoicings were had all over
the kingdom at the downfall of priestcraft, as they called
it; and particularly at
Lyons,
where the Scriptures were
publicly dragged throng the streets, with circumstance
of the greatest contempt, and other things transacted in
the exultation of their triumph, which are too shocking
to narrate. Let it sudice, then, to say, that alter three
years and a half the Bible was again permitted to be
read, and religion had free toleration in France; and
what is
equally
as remarkable, is, that the same year a
few individuas in London established what has since
been styled the Bible society, which has been instru-
mental in sending Bibles among all nations, and of tram-
lating them into more than 150
lanioages
since that pe-
riod; and almost all the writers, w o acknowledge the
Bible to be the two witnesses, do agree that the events,
prophesied of in this passage, were literally accom-
plished in the French revolution. Now, the Bible is
more than restored to its former state in society; it is
exalted, and every 'person can have, and read, and ex-
amine for themselves into its sacred truths. It is also a
fact, that the
progress ofthe Bible society has exceeded
the most sanguine expectations ot' its advocates; and the
Atheists and Deists of our day ap artio be
dperfectly
confounded at these events. Insteadmnow of eclaring
open war against the Bible, they make pretence at least
of drawing their rules of morality from this blessed
book; and the man who should now undertake to write
down the word of God, would be considered either a
madman, or a fool. One thing more: In the French
Revolution, the names or titles of mcn were abolished;
and it is said by some writers, that, in the
long
list of
titled nobility, and the great catalogue ol' priest y orders,
there were seven thousand destroyed at once. Vell
might the remnant be ailiightod, and give gkvy to the
God of heaven!
4
cnn.rs'r's smcom comma. Nl
Let us now ibr a moment see what izilows the history
of the two witnesses.
14th verse,
"
The second woe is past, and behold, the
third woe cometh quickly." The second woe began by
the civil wars in France and Germany, and ended in the
French revolution; and the third woe will come quickly.
lt is the last at woe denounced against the woman
sitting upon tilee scarlet-colored beast, and against the
earth, which she hath filled with her sorceriea and the
kingdoms of this world, which ruust all be destroyed un-
der this woe.
15th verse,
"
And the seventh angel sounded, and
there were great voices in heaven saying, The kingdoms
of this world are become the kingdom of our Lord and
his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever." The
third woe and seventh trumpet are both the same thing,
(see Rev. viii.
13%
and the seventh trumpet is the last
trump, when the ead shall be raised. See 1 Com". xv.
52. It is evident, also, that we are carried into the
eternal state forever and ever.
16th verse, "And the four and twenty elders, which
sat before God on their seahs,fell on their faces and
worshipped God." By the four and
twen? elders, I
understand the true ministers of Christ, allu ing to the
twenty-four
courses of the priesthood appointed by
Davi , 1 Chron. xxiv.
17th verse, "Saying, We give thee thanks, O Lord
God Almighty, which art, and wast, and art to come, be-
cause thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and hast
reigned." This is the language of every humble and
devoted minister of Jesus Christ, who makes-the word of
God his study, and believes in the overruliug hand of
God as
accomplishing the great designs therein revealed.
18th verse,
"
And the nations were angry, and thy
wrath is come, and the time of the dead, that they should
be judged, and that thou shouldest give reward unto thy
servants the prophets, and to the saints, and them that
fear thy name, small and great, and shouldest destroy
them which destroy the earth."
This veme shows us what takes place atthe noun
'
of the seventh trumpet and third woe, which tim
says willcomequicklyatter the French revolntiat, ifl
am
right
in m_y explanation of the two witneses. It i
mora ycertatn that theworrl ofGod isnotnowinan
obscure state; it is not hid from the world, neithe' i
clothed in sackcloth. It is tme that many voices have
united in the Bible societies to spreadthe knowledge of
the word of God; and that it is translated into about all
the known la ages in the world. .It is almost abso-
lutely ccrtainxiil the French ple are the nation that
is compared to Sodom and Qpgin the passagewe
have been
examining;
and likewise the earthquake spo-
ken of is the Frenc revolution. Then if the two wit-
nesses are the Old and New Testament, we are certain
the third woe is coming quickly, and the seventh trump
must shortly begin to sound, as I have already proved in
my lecture on the trumpets, in the year 1839. You
have undoubtedly seen, my friends, that we are likewise
brought down to the
judgment,
when God will reward the
righteous, and destroy e wicked, who have persecuted
the saints and trampled them under foot.
And once more let me inquire how it stands with you,
my dear bearer. Are you prepared for that great and
solemn day? Are you ready to meet the judgment?
The two witnesses will
appear
for or against you. Their
testimony will not fail. o you believe them ? He that
believeth shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall
be damned. "
The word that I have spoken," says
Christ, "
the same shall judge ou in the last day." Wh
will
you
not be wamed? Ifyhalf the evidence thatl
have rought of our
being on the end of this dispensa-
tion, was
brought to prove there was a great treasure hid
in your
fieltk
how soon would you search and how dili-
gently woul ou seck until you found it!
In this bool, of which we have now been speaking,
are durable riches, gold tried in the tire, seven times
purified. "Search for it as for hidden treasures; seek
and
you
shall tlnd." Can you tell me where the word
of (nod, the Bible, has failed of being accomplished lit-
erally, and in the time specified? Many events have
been foretold, the times
gven,
and not one failed. How
can you diabolisve P ow can you abut your syal
c|u.n|'r's :lcon CDIIRK 263
against so much light? Where will you have an ex-
cuse in the day ofjudgment ? I have repeatedly brought
you down to this time, and shown, b Scripture proof, the
judgment must commence immedyiately. You are in
your hearts convicted that what has been declared con-
cernirrg
the two witnesses, in this discourse, is true.
And i so, your reason must teach you that what follows
under the third woe must be equally as_true. "And the
nations were angry, and thy wrath IB come, and the
time of the dead, that they should be judged, and that
thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants the proph-
ets, and to the saints, and them that fear thy name, small
and great; and shouldest destroy them which destroy
the earth."
LECTURE XIV.
_@...
REV. xii. 6.
Andthewomanded 't th 'ld mesa where she huh a
Erepared
of God, iiigtotlie; svliinilii feed her there s thauanglrwez
undred and threescore days.
Tas history of the church, in all ages of this present
world, is but a
history
of persecution and blood, when we
follow her through al dispensations from Adam to Moses,
and from Moses to Christ; so likewise from Christ's first
coming down to his second appearance, the church have
experienced, and according to the whole tenor of Scrip-
ture, must expect to realize from the kingdoms and men
of this world, this one promise at least, "In the world
ye shall have tribulation." These facts are so plain and
obvious, that it has given rise to a common saying
among almost all writers, that "the blood of martyrs is
the seed of the church." Yet there is a bright side to
her history; for she has come out of all her persecutions
more purified, more faithful, and with more energy, to
prosecute the work her divine Master has left her to
perform. And one other thing is oertnin -God has pre-
served her, whether in the wilderness or among the
nations of the earth, in an
cxtraordinarg
and miraculous
manner ; even her enemies themselves eing her judges.
Where has a kingdom stood when all the natiom about
them have conspired their overthrow? Vhere is the
Assyrian and populous Nineveh? Where is Chaldea,
the queen of nations? Vhere is the Grecinn empire,
once the colouus of the world? Where is imperial
caaxs'r'a .IEUDND CUKING. 25
Rome? Gone,
gone,
by the power of earthly foes.
But behold the c urch of Christ and of God, delivered
first from Egyptian bondage by the mighty arm of
the God of Jacob, led by miracles thro h the wilder-
ness forty years, brought into the promisdifland, although
all the nations of the earth were her enemies, preserved
as a nation through the rise and fall of
`
hty empires,
and experiencing a reverse of fortunelzig when she
courted the aid of worldly kingdoms, or suéering dimif
nution only when she adopted the more popular worship
of heathen idolatry. Yet in her lowest estate, God told
his servant the prophet, that "he had reserved seven
thousand that had not bowed the knee to Baal." And
if men would reason on the
sulgect
of religion as they
do on other subjects, there coul not be an iniidel in the
world. For nothing is or can be more manifest than
the miraculous interposition of Providence in the preser-
vation of his people through the most severe trials, heav-
iest alllictions, and deadliest hatred of all men, that men
or societies ever endured.
Our resent discourse will show us the history of the
churchliy prophecy, through the darkest age the church
has ever been permitted to experience since the days of
Abraham.
I. I shall show what we may understand by "
the
woman
"
in our text.
II. I shall show what we are to understand by the
great red dragon and beast.
III. I shall give the history ofthe woman given in the
chapters of our text. _
IV. The time specified in the text, 1260 days, their
beginning
and end,
. What ma we understand b woman in our text?
I answer, VV); must understandthe people of God, in
all ages ofthe church, whether amo the Jew or Gen-
tile: she is called a woman because :ge is the spouse of
Christ; she is likewise called a woman because of her
dependence on Christ for all things. As a man is the
head ofthe woman, so is Christ the head over all thin
to the church,
si;ys
the apostle. As the woman depend:
on her husband
g
a name, for food, and for raiment, so
lm LBUTUIIXIIL
Jesus Christ has been published by the translation and
circulation of the word of God, how diB'erent the scene!
Now, we can hardly find aRoman Catholic who will pre
tend that heaven is purchased by iniliction of bodilytor-
ture, by doing penance, or by a monastic seclusion from
the world; neither do we see them selling indulgences,
and promising the holders
pardon
for the most abomina-
ble crimes. And but rare y do we hear the inihllibility
of the mother, or holy Catholic church, advanced ii-om
pulpit or pres. Why this mighty change in public sen~
timent? Because the
reign
of grace is not withheld;
the two witnesses are no onger clothed in sackcloth;
"
Michael has stood up, that standeth for the children of
thy people." And the "angel is flying through the
midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach
to them that dwell on the earth." "And have power
over the waters to turn them to blood."
lily waters, we
understand people; and by blood, wars. his text has
been amply fulfilled in the wars of Ehirope,
iighdnghiéor
religious tenets and ecclesiastical power, claiming ir
prerogatives from the two witnesses, and wresting and
perverting the word of God to their own destruction.
"And from thence come wars, tumults, Bghtinga," be-
cause
tbely
understand not. "And to smite the eardn
with all p sg-ues, as often as
theé
will." In Old Testa-
ment times, it was the word of od, tlnough Moses and
Aaron, that smote Egypt with the t/en pl es, and
through Joshua the Canaanites. So, in Neweggatament
times, the seven last plagues, and the three woes, are
denounced against the anti-Christian beast, who dwells
on and has great power over the earth. "As ohen as
they will," meaning as often as
they have phesied of
mem, so often will the plagues be sent. mt one jot or
tittle of tho word of God will fail.
7th verse, "And when they shall have llnished their
testimony," that is, when the 1260 years are about ful-
Blled, the "beast that ascendeth out of the bottomlel
R?"
this beast is the same as the litile hom, Papal
me, and is said to ascend out of the bottomless pit,
because it is founded on error. The princi lea taught
by thi beast were dnt Papniam, and undo!in Di,
cn1us~r's slcozm comms. 197
which are not built on the word of God ;"and, therefore,
have no foundation, and may truly be said to be "
bottom~
less." "Shall-make war against them." The govern-
ments, under the authority of Papal Rome, shall en-
deavor to exterminate the "two witnesses," the word of
God. "
And shall overcome them, and kill them ;" have
gower over them, pass laws or edicts against them, and,
this means, destroy their usefulness, life, and activity.
Idhr where the Scri tures are not read, and believed in,
they become a dead)letter; but when read, and believed,
"
they are spirit, they are life," John vi. 63.
Bth verse, "And their dead bodies shall lie in the
streets of the great city, which spiritually is called
Sodom and
Egygt,
where also our Lord was crucified."
This verse teac es us, that the word of God would be
made a dead letter, b the authority of one of' the prin-
cipal kingdoms out os' one of the ten into which the Ro-
man government was divided, and that
they
would be
guilty of the same sins that Sodom and ~
tiypt
were
guilty of; and, also, of crucifying our Lord, at is, in a
s iritual sense. Thi will apply to France in particular.
Eli-ance, previous to, and in the French revolution, was
guilty:
of Sodomitish ins; she also
had held in
bondage,
ike gypt, the people of
God; and, in France, Christ
had been crucified atresh in his people, on St. Bartholo-
mew's eve, A. D. 1572, when 50,000 Huguenots were
murdered in one night. The people of God are called
Christ's spiritual body, 1 Peter ii. 5, Col. i, M-.
9th verse,
"
And they of the
Eeople,
and kindreds, and
tongues, shall ee their dead odres three days and a
halt, and shall not suffer their dead bodies to be put
in graves." This decree, or edict, should be generally
knovn among all nations; and although they could not
prevent the witnesses from lying in the streets of the
great city three years and a halt, yet the nations about
them would
preylent
the Scriptures from being buried,
or put out of si t.
10th verse, "grind they that dwell upon the earth shall
rejoice over them, and make merry, and shall send gifts
one to another, because these two rophets tormented
them that
dweltlgplon
the earth." Vi); learn by this text
I
O
-
4
198 r.nc-runs xm. _
that the nation, who would suppress the reading of the
word of God, would make great rejoicings upon this os-
casion, and congratulate each other upon the destruction
of the Bible, as they would suppose, for this reason, be-
cause the doctrine and precepts of the Bible would be
hateful and disagreeable to them.
11th verse,
"
And after three days and a half, [ysu'|,]
the spirit of life from God entered into them, and they
stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon them
which saw them." A&er the Bible would be dormant
three years and a halt, God would so order in his provi-
dence, that they would again be
permitted
to be read
and enjoyed as usual, and the Bib e would again stand
upon its own foundation, or merits, and would again
have their bearing on the hopes and fears of mankind,
and the governments of the world, and their enemies
would see it and tremble.
12th verse, "And they heard a great voice from
heaven, saying unto them, Come up hither; and they as-
cended up to heaven in a cloud, and their enemies be~
held them." This verse shows us that many voices
would unite in calling for a
gieneral spread of the Bible
through the world, and that e Bible would be exalted
among the nations, and great multitudes of them circu-
lated, and the enemies of the word of God could not
prevent it. Here we have a plain and distinct prophecy
of the Bible societies.
13th verse, "And the same hour was there a
great
earthquake, and the tenth part ol' thecity fell, and in the
earthquake were slain of men
[names or titles] seven
thousand, and the remnant were affrightod, and gave glo-
ry to the God of heaven." At the same hour the wit-
nesses would be slain, there would be a
great revolu-
tion, and one of the ten kingdoms, which had given their
power and support to the Papal beast, would thll; and
seven thousand names, or titles of nobility, in chnrch
and state, would be destroyed; und this revolution
would produce :eat fear among the nations, and some
would acknowletfge that the word was
liiliilling, and God
was
producing these wonderliil events Here we again
see exactly depicted the French revolution, and its all
~.
0
cams-r's nconn comma.
'
iw
fects; and we cannot but see that the whole of this
prophecy has been literally fixliilled.
ln the beginning of the sixth century, about A. D. 538,
Justinian, emperor of Constantinople, in his
controversy
with the Arians, and other schismatics in the Gree'
church, .constituted the bishop of Rome head over all
others, both in the western and eastern churches, who,
by his authority,
supsfessed
the reading of the Bible by
laymen, pretending at they could not read and under-
stand without the assistance of the clergy. About this
time, too, the Latin language ceased to be
spoken
in
Italy, and the Greek and Latin both became ead lan-
guages. The Bible at that time not being written or
translated into any other languages inEurope, it became
an easy task for the bishop to obscure the doctrine and
discipline of the word of God, so far as suited his con-
venience, and to obtain universal power over the minds
and consciences of men, and clothe the Scriptures in
sackcloth. If, then, the Scriptures were first clothed in
sackcloth in A. D. 538, and were to prophesy 1260 years
in this situation, their prophecy would end in 1798.
About the close of the eighteenth century, in conse-
quence of the abominable comiptions of the church of
Rome being exposed to public view,' the men of the
world began to treat revelation as a iiction, and religion
as priestcrah; and instead of searching for the pillar
and ground of the truth, "their imaginations became
vain., and their foolish minds were darkened." They
declared war against the Bible, the "two witnesses,"
which war became general all over Europe and America.
Some of the most eminent and principal writers in this
controversy were in France, the principal kingdom
among the ten, into which Rome had been divided at
the close of the fifth century; and so successful were
these writers, that almost the whole nation of the French
became Deism, or Atheists, in ashort time. This na-
tion had long been guilty of the abominations of the
anti-Christian beast, the sins of Sodom and Egypt, and
the persecution of those who protested against her na.-
tional corruptions: the slaying of the witnesses; their
lying in a dead~state three years and ahalfinthe street
910 _
morons nv.
Verse 9, "
And the great dragon was cast out,"- Roms
Pagan was deprived from having any authority in the
gospel kingdom, as Christ
says
in John xii.-31, "Now
shall
the prince
of{.,his'world
e
casta
out
th-sd
that old
se nt, '- Rome is compare to e
napa!
belclgrse he works dezgitlfully and deceives the church,
(woman,) as the serpent did Eve, the woman in the gar-
den,- "
called the devil," because
they
devour and psf-
secute with a devilish spirit,--"sn Satan," because
satan-like he claims power over all kingdoms 'of tha
world-" which deceiveth the whole world."-This
may be said of Rome, for she conquered more nations
by deceit and Slattery than by fair warfare.--"He was
cast out into the earth, and his angels were cal out
with him." This was literally fulfilled when Chril cut
off the Jews and -all unbelievers;when he said, "My
llringalom is'n3:i;>f me f;v(:>r1d;:dwhen_ he_
extgiuded
the
mg oms o e m
clpattngin
`
kingdom which they claimednbn account of their autbor~
ity
among
men.
`
Verse 0, "And I heard aloud voice saying in heav-
en,"-many voices in the church under the gospel dis-
pensation, -
"
Now is come salvation, and strength, and
the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ."-
This represents the grand chorus of all the saints, when
theg
discover the true principle on which the kingdom
of od is built. This was literall 'true at the day of
Pentecost.-" For the accuser ofyour brethren is cast
down, which accused them before our God night and
day." The Romans hail, by drawing the Jews into
idolatry, caused them to sin against God in all their
evening and morning sacrifices. And
lay
these means,
they
were accused before God, that is, od was angry
wi them, and destroyed our
brethren, the Jews.
Verse 11, "And they overcame him by the blood of
the Lau1b,"- by the blood of atouement,all believers in
Christ do finally overcome the powers of darkness and
princes of this world,-" and by the word of their testi-
mvny,"-preaching and testimony of the apostles.-
"
And they loved not their lives unto the death"-
_
omni: szcoim ummm.
'
211
~InH'ered martyrdom This was thliilled in the death of
the apostles and others#
Verse 12, "
Therefore rejoice ye heavens, and ye that
dwell in them." It was a 'matter of great joy among the
primitive Christians, to be counted worthy to suffer per-
secution for Christ's sake, "
Woe tn the inhabitants of
the earth," -those who live under the
'
Roman vem-
ment,-
"
and of the sea,"
-' princip§.lokin¥-
dom among the ten kingdoms. ce
ifmgeneral y
meant by sea in this prophecy.
"
For the d
`
is come
vdownnnto you, having
great wrath; because he knoweth
that he hath but a s ort time. The devil means
destroyer, and the three woes, and seven last plagues,
were all to be sent
upon
the earth and sea, which denote
wars, revolutions, an changing of governments. These
things would prevail in the close of this Roman
kin?
dom, and war would be the closing up of the earth y
scene of this fourth kingdom which Daniel saw and
John has been describing under the figure of the "
great
red dragon."
A
Verse 13, "And when the dragon saw that he was
cast unto the e|.rth,"'- when the Roman government
saw they could have no control in the things of Christ's
kingdom, the hated the church and the doctrine that
taught that Cyhrist's kingdom was not of this world, and
they
"
persecuted the woman that
brought
forth the man
chi d," which is the church that had a a.vior' born unto
her, Christ Jesus, the Lord of life and glory.
Verse 14, "And to the woman was
lgiven
two
of a
great eagle,"--by which wings' understand e
means God used between the Arian and Papal contro-
versy, at the time of the division of the Greek or eastern
church fiom the west or Roman church, which happened
in the reign of 'Justinian, emperor of the east, about A.
D. 538, when the
controversy arose
concerning
the
worshipping
of departed saints, images, and the inf libil-
ity of e church at Rome. Inl this controversy, many
privately withdrew themselves, and settled in the north-
west part of Asia and in the north-east part of Europe,
and alter a number of years colonies were sent by them
212 accrual: xrv.
into Piedmont and valleys of the Alps, when it I
supposed the true worship of God was retained during
the dark ages of Papal ignorance, bigotry, and super-
stition. (See Milner's Church History, and Bened1ct's
History of the
Baptists.)l-
"
that she might Hy into the
wildemess, into er p ace," -a separation from the
world, as says the voice from heaven, "
Come out of her,
my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that
ye receive not of her plagues," Rev. xviii. 4.- "
where
she is nourished for a time, times, and half atime," -
fed
and nourished by the spirit and word of God 1%0 years.
"from the face of the serpent"-fiom the knowledge
of Papal Rome. _
Verse 15, "
And the serpent cast out of his mouth wa-
ters as a flood after the woman,"-waters, in prophecy,
means people, Rev. xvii. 15. Therefore I understand
this prophecy to have been fulhlled when the Pope, the
head of Papal Rome, sent forth his armies and
inguisition
to subdue the heretics, as he called them, who welt in
the valleys of the Alps, which was about the beginning
of the thirteenth century, -
"that he might cause her to
be carried away of the flood"-exterminated and de-
stroyed by his armies and
imxpisition.
Verse 16, "
And the earth elped the woman, and the
earth opened her mouth and swallowed up the Hood
which the dragon cast out of his mouth." This venue
was fulfilled in the wa.rs which followed the above»
mentioned time of persecution, in which the German
inces
helfped
their subjects against the armies of the
lllbpe, and estroyed and swallowed up many of the Pa-
pal armies, from the thirteenth _to the fifteenth century.
Or, as some authors have supposed, the waters which
the d n cast out of his mouth was the Hood of
i-rrorsrggch arose about the time of the French revolu-
tion, under the name of Deism, which was calculated to
destroy the doctrine of the
iospel,
as
they vainly
supposed, backed up by therepu lican armies o France,
und afterwards by the power of Bonaparte, who was
finally subdued by the combinations of the kings of the
earth. But, as this transaction seems to me to be we
ca1usa~'s sloelll C0ll!||» 213
late toalfect the woman hi her exiledstate, I have in-
aalined,
in my humble opinion, to my iirst exposidon of
se texts. -
e
Verse 17,"And thedrsgon waswroth with the wo-
man," -
Papal__Rome was angry with the true church, -
"and went to make v/arwith the remnant of her seed."
This war _has not yet come; for it is evident
by
the ex-
pression "
remnant of her seed," that it means elsst of
the church "
who
keep
the commandments of God, and
have the' testimony o Jesus Christ." This is the last
struggle of this anti-Christian beast, and is described in
many
guess
as the last great battle, or the
supper of the
great od. Such expressions as "md went, as
though
this power would o to some place out of their own
temtory, and "
the of the east might be prepared,"
show that they will go west. I am, therefore, con-
strained to believe that this battle of die
drs.gn's
last
power will be in America; endif so, it must mainly
m these United States. It will be a bahie on
Igliticsi
principles, as we may learn by the passage in . xvi.
13-16, "And I. saw three unclean spirits like
trotgs
come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of e
mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false
prophet ;
" -
the "
unclean spirits
"
shows that it is politi-
cal
prineges; and, like the frogs in Egypt, it will per-
vade all e departments of life -the social, civil, and
relitiious. By
"
dragon," we must understand the kings
of e earth; by the "beaslg" Papal principles, or the
church of Rome; by the "iiilse prophet," Mahometan
power ;
-
"
for they are the spirit oi devils, working mim-
cles," -that is, spirit of deceit,
sevmting friends, divi-
ding
`
doms, states,societies, c urches, and families,
and crum
`
every man-made institution, and levelling
to the dust law, order, and bond of union, which the
wisdom of man
mi
have invented,-" which go forth
unto the kings of e earth and of the whole world."
This shows the universal spread of this fanatical spirit
of disorganization, and it will finally lead to "gather
them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty."
"
Behold, I am come as s. thiefl Blessed is he that
lstcheths.ndkeepethhisgarments,lesthewalk naked
214 ucruu nv.
and tney see his shame." We are here notified that
his
coming
will be like a thief to those whoare engaged
in this po itical warfare, and in those popular and men-
made societies of the day; and we are told that those
will be blessed who watch, that is, for his coming, and
the signs of the times, and that keepeth his`garments
unspotted from these worldly institutiom, which engen-
der strife and animosity among brethren. Be warned,
dear Christian, "enter into thy chamber, and hide thy-
self for a little moment, imtil the indignation be over
and pest, that ye need not be ashamed before him at his
coming." It will also be a-battle of
religious principles,
as is evident by the followin ev. xix. 11-16,
"
And I saw heaven
opened, behold, a white hmse;
and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True,
and in righteousness he doth judge and make war. His
eyes were as a flame of tire, and on his head were many
crowns; and he had a. name written that no man knew
but he himself, and he was clothed with a vestnre
dips-ed
in blood; and his name is called The Word of
Go And the armies which were in heaven followed
him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and
clean. And out of his mouth goeth a
sharp sword, that
with it he should smite the nations; and e shall rule
them with a rod of iron; and he treadeth the wine-
of the Eerceness and wrath of Almighty God."
passage proves that there will be at the close of this dis-
nsation, immediately precedi the marriage of the
zeamb to his bride, a
great andnlast struggle between
erroir
and truth, between
ingdelityuiatpd tht;
word of God.
An ou may inquire, r a wi ro riet
How ghall we know on p:hic£s1side we ar:¢l¥g`lg;d%
this
great
war of principle P I answer,
"
In nghteous-
ness, he doth make war. But, say you, we an so prone
to follow tradition or prepossessed notions, and think we
are right., that, like Paul, we may be found at last
aga.instGod. You mustseeto it,t.ha.tyouare "
ithf
and true," have faith in his name, "and his name is The
Word of God." This iayour only rule -
The Von'l of
God. Be careful; lay yourselves on this word. Try
yourselves bythisstandard. lfyeur li.fs,fsih,apm
..,_f..
caus'r's -snconn colmw. 213
ence, and hope, are built on this foimdation, you can
never fail; for he that is The Word of God, is "
KING
QF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS." Again: it
rs-to be a literal battle with the sword, for Christ says,
"He that taketh the sword shall die by the sword."
And kings, Papal Rome, and the Mahometans, have
ruled the world by the sword, and their swords, duri
all the days of their wer, have been red with the blogs
of their subjects, anfnhe innocent victims of their hate.
And in Rev. xix. 17--20, it is evident, by the "fowls"
spoken of in the 17111 verse, is meant, warriors in favor
of liberty who are to "
eat (destroy) the flesh (strength or
power) of kings, and' the flesh of captains, and the flesh
of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and them that sit
on them, (armies are undoubtedly meant in this
passage)
and the flesh of all men," who are
engaged
in favor 0
kings,
papalRome, or false prophet, "
bo free a.nd bond,
both sma l and great." "
And I saw the beast and the
kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together
to make war against him that sat on the horse, and
against his army." "And he gathered them
together
into a place called in the Hebrew' tongue Armage don,"
[awake to the spoil,) Rev. xvi. 16-21.
These will be the means the dragon will use in his
last great struggle to gain ascendancy over the minds,
consciences, and bodies of men. He will fan up their
political animosities; he will stir up strife and division
among rclivious communities; and, last of all, and not
least, he will encourage an intolerable thirst for blood.
In which battle Christ will come, chain the dragon, ive
his body to the burning dame, confine the spirits ogall
who worship the dragon, beast or false prophet, in the
pit of woe; raise the saints, purify, cleanse, and glorify
them with his own glory.
IV, We are to speak' of' the time the saints, or church,
were to be in the wilderness, "one thousand two hun-
dred and threescore days." I believe all commenta-
tors agree that these days are to be understood years;
and, as I have proved this point in a former lecture, I
seed not stop to argue this given principle at this time,
out will proceed to give some proof when this time be.-
210 Lllli xlv.
ganandwharitended. Thetans
glzinonrtextl
duesamelengthoftimeasgivenby `lforthe
'
ofthelittlehorn. SeeDuielvii.25. ltis,als:'$
mmetime John hasgiven fmthe image beasttohave
power
"
to corsinue forty and two months." Thirty days
toamomhisl2Ndays,Bev.xiii.5. Itis,a.lso,the
samelengthoftimethntwagiven theGentilestotread
the holycity under foot. SeeRev.xi.2. Also fa' the
witnesses to prophesy, clothed in mckcloth. Rev. xi. 3.
Andthere can hardly be a diadow ofadoubtbutthat
allthesetimes had their beginning and endingat one
and thesametime. lfsoghentheargnmentsusedhere-
tolbrenuyhavethenproperbearinginthlsplace.
But let us consider a few things in addition to our
former reasons. lst. What may we understand by the
woman "
Heeing into the wilderness," and "fromthe face
of the serpent." We must consider it in a state of ob-
scurity; this was true in thetime we have stated, A. D.
538. Historians tell us but little about any
refeilgr
church but the Roman church, and this has never n
in an obscure state; of course the Ronan is not the
church in the wilderness. But they do tell rl tlmt, in
the days of Justinian, emperor of Constantinople, there
were many schismatics, as they were called, who opposed
the power ofthe bishop or pope of Rome, and doings of
councils in the east and west, and a
large share ofthe lat-
ter part of Justinian's life was spent in
religiom broil:
and
geiipelling
from his kingdom these schisrnatics; and
the e of aws which he published about A. D. 533,
forbade any Christians any rights or privileges as citizens
in his empire who would not acknowledge the bishop of
Rome as head. And in these laws he gave the bishop
Eowerto
hold courts and try all matters of faith within
is kingdom. These, and other things of like import,
drove all true followers of the word of God to seek a
rest out of the jurisdiction of the city of nations; and,
of course, became outlaws to the Roman
govemment.
Then, if we tix the beginning of the exile o the church
at the same time of setting up anti-Christ, A. D. 338,
then the church was in its exiled state until A. D. 17%,
whichwould bethe1%0 years. It is hare worthyof
cxars1'| noon comma. BU
remark,-that the code of laws pused by-Iustiniaa were
in illllfome in the
ki¥d0II!S belonging to, or under the
control ot; he pope Roma, tingthe
`
hts and
privileges of me who
°
:JE from aghaaom
faith, until the French tor;1%omc, in 1798, and declared
Italy a
republic; when -free toleration was given Rr any
religious opinion or 'privilege whatsoever.
`
Here, then,
the church, in whatever form she might appear, was per-
mitted to
ergoy
the rights and privileges of citizens, and
to worship od as their conscience might dictate. This
is the first time, during the 1260 years, that free tolera-
tion of reli ion was
granted in an kingdom where the
Catholic cgurch had power; and; although Catholic
þÿ¥`l;,l!C¬S
and
'pipes
have since had rule in Italy and
ance, yet y have never dared, as yet, to pursue
their former intolerant course of conduct towards Prot-
estants. And it is very evident, my dear friends, that
the church is now out of the wilderness; that is, if she
ever was; for there never has been a time since the
days of the apostles, no, nor even then, that the church,
in all its several branches, has enjoyed greater
privileges
than for nearly forty years past. She has s read er
wings over every land, and carried the news of?salvation
into every language on the known world._ Her reapers
have followed the sewers of seed, and there is handsfull
of corn in the tops of' all the mountains; but the harvest
is short The church has had rest as long as she has
ever had since Christ left her and ascended to his Fu.-
ther. The dragon begins to show his anger; the trum~
et begins to sound to the onset; the armies of the
geast begin to muster for the battle, they are furbishing
their swords for the slaughter; the kings of the earth
are combining
against
the freedom of their subjects;
the eat men an nobles are riveting closer the chains
of Lair vassals; tyrants are
braiding in firmer knots
their scorpion whips for their slaves; ezpediency has
taken the room of moral law, and anarch has crowded
order from his seat; mobs have taken the lace ofjudges,
and law is popular will; the liberty of the press is but
the nod of
demuiiogues,
and the freedom of speech il
,
IIB ucruu nv.
callorlfamticinn. Diviaionnemltnbetheunlerof
theday,mdou|-valuable i.lIltiU1ti0lll.l'Bfl)f»wfi.l)g\0
theirbue. Bewu~ued,theu,Omyfriends,to|eek
2|`Bfg"llDd$'\||0bl»l\ll8|'lf\h0gWP8lb8f0l0
u\9ll1lliH
an odup. "Andthedngunvuwrothwiththe
vmnmmdvmtwmlhvuviththemmnmtofher
aeedwhich kee dB¢(lll1~lld.ll\8llU0fG'0d,8@||lV6
thegeltinzonydplelnl Chit." "The lpiritofpoph-
°°¥
LECTURE XV.
REV. xvl. 17.
And me seventh angel poured out hi. vial into ue sir; md aim
came a
great
voice out of the temple of heaven, from the thmne,
saying, t is done.
Tms text is the account we have in the word of God
ofthe last
plague
that will ever visit our world, or the
inhabitants w o hereafter will be permitted to dwell
thereon. That is evident, because it is theeeventh of
the last seven. For John says, Rev. xv. 1, "
And I saw
another sign in heaven, great and marvellous, seven an-
gels having the seven
lastplagua; for in them is filled
,up the wrath of God." And the wrath of God is filled
up, that is, the cup of God's wrath of which he will make
all nations drink; and he will give unto
Babylon "the
cu ofthe wine of the fierceness of his wrath.
}l`hen it cannot be
uninteresting
to those who wish or
who may desire to learn where an when the last plagues
have been poured out, and how many yet remain for us
to experience. These seven last lagues have had their
shadows in the
plalgrues
which God)sent on slave-holding
Egypt, when he de ivered his
people,
the Jews, from their
Egyptian bondage, the least of w ich plagues destroyed
Pharaoh and his host, just in the moment when Israel
were
shouting deliverance on the banks ofthe Red Sea.
So likewise, in the seven last plagues,
th?
are poured
out upon
gsiritual Eglypt, slave-holding abylon, who
has enslav the
we
of God for centuries, and hu
traEcksd in the 'es and souls of men. She, like
5| ucrulz xv.
Egypt, has appointed task-masters over the church, and
has endeavored to
strangle her children in the birth.
She has commanded the km and rulers of the earth to
destroy the children ofthe c§irch, as did the Egyptian
the Hebrew midwives; but the church has found favor
in the eyes of some of the kings and princes of the earth,
and the earth has
helped
the woman, and her children
are notall dead. An their cryhas gone up tothelsord
of Sabaoth, andhe has come down in these seven last
plagues to deliver his people from the hand of the spoiler,
and from the power of the beast, the anti-Christian
abomination; and when this last vial is poured into the
air, all the doctrines of men and devils, and all the the-
ories of men and the wisdom of this world will be con-
ibunded and
brorgght
to nought. The Lord will over-
whelm with the and
lie?
wrath of his last judgment
the kings of the earth, the east or Catholic church of
abomination, the false prophet and all his followers, the
great men of the earth, mighty mea and
catptaina, ty-
rants, slave-holders, rich and poor, bond an free : all
who have worship ed the beast or his image, will, like
the host of Pharaoh, be destroyed in the general conde-
gration of the world, and the saints will shout deliver-
ance in the New Jerusalem state. I shall, therefore,
I. Give the history of the seven last plagues, or the
seven vials of wrath.
II. Show what may be understood by "B is done."
I. Then we are to give the history ofthe seven vials
or last plagues; and for this purpose we must give a com-
ment on the sixteenth chapter of Revelation. Verse 1,
"
And I heard a great voice out ofthe temple, saying to
the seven angels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials
ofthe wrath of God upon the earth." This verse shows
us that these plagues are
poured upon the earth at the
command of him who sits in the temple of God. Verse
2, "
And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the
earth; and there fell a aoisome and grievous sore upon
the men which had the mark of the beast, and upon them
which wofrshi pod his
imaie."
This first vial was poured
Il nthe e kingdom ofthe heastorthe
£na.n government. A noisome, a
grievous sore, indif
4
cnrs'r's sscozm counts. 21
cates the dissolution of the body aiiicted, and that the
constitution is
labor-ingounder
some inward disease, or
affected by contagion m without. It is therefore a lit
einblem to
represent
the exposure of the corruptions of
the church o Rome, and breaking out of those loath-
some diseases of internal abominations which had been
hid for ages fiom the- world by the cunnin crallziness
of this Papal beast. The men spoken of in
'passage
are those who
worship the beast, and who are e pro-
fessed followers of this corrupt society, and all who live
under the influence and control of the idolatrous city of
nations, and who tradio in her indulgences and abomi-
nable practices. This vial then began to be poured out
when the Protestants lirst published to the world the
corruptions and abominable practices of the church of
Rome, when the world
beg-an
to see the noisome and
grievous sores that covere the men who pretended to
preach or proclaim the doctrine, laws, or commands of
this beast. And of course this plague was sent on the
Romish church about the year A. D. 1529, under the
preaching of Luther, Calvin, and others who Opposed and
exppsed
the corruptions ofthe church of Rome. _
erse 3, "
And the second angel poured out his vial
upon the sea, and it became as the blood of a dead man;
and every living 'soul died in the sea." The sea, in
prophetic language,is the centre of some
great nation,
or society of men, as in a restless and tur ulent state;
and the things living in the sea, are the persons living
under the power or control of this nation, or society.
Living soul denotes those persons who have been bom
of' the Spirit, and are in possession of that living faith
in God, and love for all men.
"
As the blood of a dead
man." There is
somethingivery striking in this figure-
not an ordinary figure of lood, which denotes war and
mortal controversy, 'but cold, congealed blood; the blood
ol' a dead man denotin a massacre in cool blood, with-
out any resistance on the partof those murdered. This
vial was, then, poured out in France, the principal king-
dom in the Roman ten horns, in the year A. D. 1572, at
the massacre ol' the
Huguenots on St. Bartholomew's
eve, when
50,0;)3were
slam inone night, and thestreets
I
$8 moron xv.
ra'ablood,asSullytel1sna,insome places ankle d
inthecityofPar|s. This uxassacrewasincoldbltim
forthesamehistcxian
tellsus,thatthek?_gstoodinhis
balcony, and shot down his mked and d enceless sub-
racts astl\e¥":ereileeingtlnoughthest|'eets.
This
appenedin nce,thestoutest ofthe Papal horns-
the chief instrument in establishing, building up, and
supporti
that cruel, murderous power of lfapacy.
erse!E"Andthethirdange1pouredouth|svialup-
onthe riversandfotmtaimof wat»ers,and they became
blood." By "rivers and fountain of water," I under-
stand the
M6U$ BUtf;
who live
aruxdnthe gfntre,
orsea,asitwas in vi "
ood,"
I understand destructive war. "An Iheardythe angel
of the waters say, Thou art righteous, O Land, which
art, and vast, and shalt be, because thou hast judged
thus. For they have shed the blood of saints and
prophets, and thou hast
given
them blood to drink, for
they areworth . And heardanotheroutofthe altar
say, Even so, fiord God Almighty, true and
are thy judgments." in these verses we have ra-
sons
gixan, why they were visited with this
scouts
of
war, sms, in the
precediugnvtial, they had the
blood of saints; which proves the exposition of that
vial, which I have already given, is correct. This vial,
then, was poured out upon the nations that had `ven
their strength and their power to the beax; aiflthe
govemments were liiled with war and blood. This vial
was poured out about A. D. HBO, and lasted nearly titty
years. Spain and Portugal carried on a blood and de-
structive war for more than thirty years of time.
France was torn by civil and intestine ware d
°
a
long period. The civil wars in England heganunuiiier
king Charles I., 1642, which lasted with but little cessa-
tion, until king George I. ascended the throne, in 1714.
gfsréixeanlg
was
qzlsldlwith blooiklgegiveien
the
contentliona
vangeli eaguean a
oiclc:§ue,"wic
ge
rise to a ruinous war, which lasted irty years."
Guthrie, vol. i., page 443. This war was hurled, on
ul6é)l.\'!
of the Protestants, by Gustavus Adolphus, king
of weden, who was killed at the battle of Lutun, A.
cnais-1"s noon comma. 3
D. 1632, which war lasted until the peace of Munster
1648. The other
kingdoms
of the ancient empire of
Rome were more or ess drenched in blood, and civil
wars, on account of their religious tenets, and conten-
tion of their rulers and soverei princes. These were
the
hem! judgments which (gd saw Bt to inflict upon
the king oms and states of the chmch ot' Rome, for the
innocent blood which she had' shed of the Protestants
who ,had protested against her cruel and blasphemous
practices. "
Forthey have shed the blood of saints and
prophets, and thou hast 'ven them blood to drink, for
thgy
are worthy." "
And tile fourth angel poured out his
vi uponthesun,and werwasgivenlmtohimto
scorch men with tire. Xiu! men were scorched with
great heat, and blasphemed the name of God which hath
Eiwer
over these plagues ; and they repented not to give
'm glory." The sun is the great source of light and
heat, and, in
prophetic language, is an emblem of the
Egspel,
as exp ained in the 19th Psalm, 4-10. "
Their
`
e has
gone
out through all the earth, and their words
to the en of the world. In them hath he set a taberna-
cle for the sun," &.c. To "
scorch men" with tire, signifies
to make men angry;
"
at heat," uncommonly ang-ry,
vengeful, malicious. 'lglj vial was poured out in the
last century, when the ospel was proclaimed in these
kingldoms
of the beast. gNow, during the greater part
of e last
cents?
and in all the kingdoms where the
gospel was preac ed, there were manifested insidious
attempts and a systematic opposition against the gospel
of Jesus Christ, or the Holy Scriptures. This opposi-
tion was headed by Frederick, king of Prussia, and aided
by all the wits, men of enius and learnin ,
as they
boasted, of all Europe angAmerica; and in Sieir secret
assemblies, or clubs, they went so far as to calculate
about what length of time it would take for them to de-
stroy and exterminate the religion of the "
Galilean and
his twelve iishermen;" and no writers that ever wrote
took such unwearied
'
showed so much virulence
and anger, blasphemes the name of God to such a de-
ee, as these writers; and none, either before or since,
Eve ever dared to exhibit the like. "And they re-
QM -
rmcruu xv.
nted not to give him the glo ." I believe it is not
gown,that any of these principg deistical writers were
converted to the religion oflesus Christ before their deatla
to give God the
glory.
Yet I think we have some ac-
count of many o them dying in horror, at the frightful
view of the future, in consequence of their blasphemoul
lives against the majesty of the King of kings. There-
fore, in the history of the Deists in the eighteenth cen-
tury,
we_ have the history of the plague of t.he fourth
via .
"
And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the
seat of the beast; and his kingdom was full of darknes,
and they gnawed their tongues forpain, and blasphemed
the God of heaven, because of their pains and their
sores, and repented not of their deeds." "
The seat of
the beast" must mean those ten kingdoms on which the
woman sitteth, which is ancient Rome. "
Full of dark-
ness" must mean fiill of wickedness, confusion, and
every evil work. "Gnawed their tongues for pain"
shows shame, disgrace, and disappointment. This vial
was poured out in the French revolution, about 17%.
When Bonaparte began his extraordinary career, exalted
to the pinnacle of power, he dethrones the pope, (whose
power and authority had made kings and emperors quail
at his feet, who had ruled over the nations with despotic
sway for more than 1200 year-s,) and makes Rome the
second city of France ; conquers the ancient monarehies ;
deluges every country with blood; masters every king;
gathers spoils from every land, and humbles cities in the
ust;
chantges
the laws of kingdoms, and destroys the
most. sacre constitutions of the Roman states. In this
revolution among t.he Roman kingdoms, and under this
vial, the hostile was demolished, the inquisition destroyed,
torture suppressed, and the power of the Papal clergy
restrained. Their kingdoms were full of darkness ; they
were troubled, chafed, and grieved; a thousand plots
were laid; mnny times they contbdornted against him,
the muster spirit of the times; but they
Jirevailed
not,
until this vial had its accomplishment on -1 seat of the
beast. Yet, after all this wonderful display of God'==
Hidgments upon the beast and kingdoms of ancient
ome, they repented not, but, Pharaoh-like. they blu-
cums'r's` sncolvn UOIINQL 5%
phemed God, because of their pains and their sores.
"
And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the at
river Euphrates; and the water thereof was
driegrfxp,
that the way of the kings`of the' east might be pre-
pared."
The scene has now
changed from Europe to
urkey. The "river Euphrates
"
means, in
prophecy, the
people of that
C0lll1h'§` bordering on the river, and, of
course, refers to the urkish power, as I have formerly
shown in my lecture on the fifth and sixth trumpet.
"Water thereof' was dried up," is an emblem of the
power and strength of that kingdom being diminished,
or taken away. This vial was poured out on Turkey,
by the loss of a great share ofthe empire ; lirst, Russia on
the north, in her last war with-the Turks, took away a
number of provinces; then, by the revolt of Ali Pachs.;
then, by the rising ofthe Greeks; since, by the Albani-
ansand Georgians, and other distant parts ofthe em-
pire, becoming disaifected; which, all together, have _so
wasted the power of the Turks, that, now, it is very
doubtful whether she can maintain her power against
her own intestine enemies; and, to compare her now
with her former greatness, would be like
oomparingma
fordable stream with the great river Euphrates; so
the way now appears to be prepared forthe kings to
come up to the battle of the great day, in which the
false prophet is now to take his part, as we shall see in
our next verse.
"
And I saw three unclean
spirits
like frogs come out
of t.he`mouth ofthe dragon, an out ofthe mouth of the
beast, and out of the mouth of the falseprophet; for
they are the spirits of devils
working miracles, which
go
forth unto the kings ofthe earth an ofthe whole wor d,
to gather them to the battle of the great day of God
Almighty." Now, if we can
decip`her
this' passage, we
can tell what are now and what vri be the signs of the
times. "
Three unclean spirits."
gy'
this we must un-
derstand three wicked principles. "
ogs" I understand
to show us that it is political. As fro came over the
land in the judgment on Egypt, anfspervaded every
house, even the palace of the king, so do politics.
"
Mouth" denotes orders or commands. The dragon is
ucruu xv.
_
aligmeofthekingsoftheeartli. Thebeastisnsedto
represent Papacy. The false prophet evidently repre-
sents Mahometaniam. These have all the spirit of
devils. The devil pretends to claim
gpower
over all the
kingdoms of the world,(see Rev. xii.
gvthere
called the
devil. Papacy is said, in Rev. to receive its
power
from the dragon, and to come out of the bottom-
ess
pit, and shall go into perdition; of course, must be-
long to Satan's kingdom. The false prophet, too, is to
be "cast alive into a lake of fire buming with brim-
stone." All these powers have pretended to work mir|»
cles, to establish their authority over the bodies and
souls of men. But what are the
principles
which each
of these teach their political followers. The dragon
and his political party, in whatever nation they may
appear, (as all three of these political principles must
pervade the whole earth,) will support tyranny, slavery,
and aggrandizement of the few at the e use of many.
The beast and his political party will hggiown only by
their
hypocrisy,bigotry, and superstition. Their princi-
pal object wi be to operate on the hopes and fears of
men, and so an ascendancy over the minds of the
individuals w
may
be so unfortunate as to be found in
their ranks. The alse prophet will fill his
'party
with
notions of infidelity, lust, and conquest. An the spirit
of all these parties, workin at one and the same tune,
in all nations, and among all people, will produce an ell
fect which only can be known to mortals in experiencing
the conflict. "
Behold, I come as a thie£ Blessed is he
that watcheth, and keepeth his garments, lest he walk
naked, and they see his shame." This verse `ves us
notice of the near approach of him who hath 5 power
in heaven and earth. "
For when they say, Peace and
safety, than sudden destruction cometh upon then; and
theyngiall
not
escalpe.
But. ye, brethren, are not in
dar s, that that ay shall overtake you as a. thieli"
Watch, therefore, for if ye have put on the Lord Jesus
Christ, keep your garment, and let none take your
crown, that you may be found of him without spot. and
blameless. "
And he gathered them together into a
place called, in the Hebrew tongue, Armageddon ;" ill!
caan; r's sscorvn comme. £7
il, "Where the Lord will declare his precious fruit."
This
gathering
is the same spoken of in Matt. xxv. 32,
"
And before im shall be gathered all nations; and he
shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd di-
videth his sheep from the goats." In the place Arma-'
geddon, the Lord will manifest who are his; he will
separate the clxatf from the wheat, the wicked from 'the
just. The wheat he will
'iather
into his garner; they
will be caught up to meet e Lord in the air, while the
chaff will he burnt with unquenchable fire. His own
right hand shall save uswhile his last plague shall be
poured out
upon
the head of his enemies. "And the
seventh ange poured his vial into the air; and there
came a
great voice out ofthe temple of heaven from the
throne, saying, It is done." The seventh and last vial
of God's wrath will be poured into the'air about the
year 1840, if my former calculations are correct, when
this judgment will have a quick and rapid circulation
over the whole globe. Like the air, it will pervwde
every
kingdom,
circulate into every nation, sow the seeds
of anarc y in every society, and disorganize every
bond of union among men, except the
glospel.
"And
there were voices, and thunders, and lig tnmgs, and a
great earthquake, such as was not since men were
u n the earth, so mighty an earthquake, and so
great."
l£o<:bes,po1itic}xgmstrife. Thunders is an
erfnblem
of
dia
visions.
' '
is a representation o anger an
war. Gfrfgtg ¢¢rr%uake denotes a
great revolution.
And there will be, when this vial is poured out, political
strife among all nations, divisions among all sects, socie-
ties, and associations of men upon earth. Anger, war, and
bloodshed will fill the countries with horror and dismay;
and a great revolution, such as was not since men were
upon earth, so mighty a revolution and so great.
"
And
the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities
of the nations fell; and great Babylon came in remem-
brance before God, to
give unto her the cup of the wine
of the iierceness of his wrath." The city is the
woman which reigneth over the kings o the earth, says
the angel, Rev. xvii. 18. And the woman is Papucy.
Papacy must also be divided into three parties, to show
% r.sc-run xv.
'
'
deno eps power re"n,so dia
"°"""°i1'£°&¥ ",i'i'1"'°°'*'3.i°' "'1.;.'.§"'°"'£'.'}
'"
gwresent the power and religion of all other nations.
Thereibre all the Power, and all naional religion, will
fall in and under this vial, and the power
will be
uived;
all their sins, cruel persecutions,an|l
bloody dle will be brought into judgment into re-
membrance before God, and he will till to her the cup
which she has made others drink, and she in her turn
must drink the dregs. "And every island Bed away,
and the mountains were not lbund." bland: and stua-
tains are figures of great and small kingdonm and [GY-
ernments. This text alluda to the same time and
circumstances which Nebuchadnexnfs dream does,
Daniel ii. 35, 45-when the stone cut out without
hands shall smite the image upon his feet, and all the
kingdoms
of the earth be carried away, that no place
sha l be found for them. In this verse it is, the "
moun-
tains were not found." "And there fell upon men a
great hail out of heaven, every stone about the weight
of a talent, and men blasphemed God because of the
plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exceed-
ing great." This closes the lastory of the seven lust
plagues, and this storm of hail is the last part ol' the
seventh vial; it. is the closing up ofthe judgments ot'God
on nn
ungodly world. Whether we are to understand
this hail figuratively or literally, I am not able to say;
but my
rrevailing opinion is, that we are to understand
it literal y, for this reason--I havepever been able in the
word of God to find any
figurative explanation, although
it is used in a number of p aces with 'cular reference
to the last day. lsa. xxviii. 17, "Ju§;:r-'ent also will l
lay to the line, and righteousness to the
gluumiet,
and
the hail shall sweep awa the refuge of `es, and the
waters shall overflow the hiding-places." xxx. 30,
"And the Lord shall cause his glorious voice to be
heard, and shall show the lighting down of his arm,
with the indi nation of his anger, and with the flame of
a
devouring gre, with scattering, and tempest., and hail-
ltonss." hzek. xiii. ll, 13, "Say unto them which
daubitwithuntsmpsnd mortr,thatitdallt'all; this
cams-r's sleorm couuw. 299
shall be an
overflowing shower; and ye, 0
yreat
hail-
stones, shall fall; an a stormy wind shal rend it.
Therefore, thus saith the Lord God, I will even rend it
witha stormy wind in my fury; and there shall be an
overflowing shower in mine an er, and great hail-stones
in my fury, to consume it." llzek. xxxviii. 22, "And
I will plead against him with pestilcnce and with blood;
and I will rain upon him, and
upon his bands, and upon
the' many
peolple
that are with him, an overllowing raii,
and great ha' -stones, Ere and brimstone." Also, Rev.
xi. 19, "
And there were
lighti;-ipfs,
and voices, and
thunderings, and an earthquake, great hail."
By reading the connection of these texts, you cannot
but e struck with the agreement of the prophets in their
descriptions of this last and dreadful judgment of God
upon the world. All of them evidently fix it on- the last
day; all call it apparently a rain of great hail-stones,
like those which fell upon Egypt in the days of Moses.
Exodus ix. 23-25, "
And Moses stretched forth his rod
toward heaven; and the Lord sent thunder and hail, and
the ire ran along upon the ground; and the Lord rained
hail upon the land of E ypt. So there was hail, and
tire mingled with the very `evous, such as there
was none like it in all the langrhf Egypt since it be-
came a nation. And the hail smote throughout all the
land of
Egypt,
all that was in the field, both man and
beast; an the hai1`smote
ever{`
herb of the iield, and
brake every tree of the field." _
his, it is evident, is the
type of the last part of the seventh
plague.
And now,
my
friends, will you be ieve? Six of these
plagues have een accomplished in as literal a manner
as we could expect, after a fair and scriptural explain.-
tion of the figures and metaphors used.
Andoagain
I
ask, Do you believe? You
_think,'p;rhaps,you w' lwait
until you see the hail come, and n you will believe.
But will you not recollect that our text says,
"
And they
blasphemed God because of the plague of the hai1"?
Will you thus
temfpt
God through six successive judg-
ments, and wait or the last before you will believe?
What
hoggor prospect have you that the seventh will
do what six preceding could not do--that is, make
930 Lncruss xv.
you believe? Is there one rational conviction that you
will be then convinced? No, not one. Then will you
not see and leam wisdom by what is gone before ?
Pharaoh had no space for
regentance
under,or even just
before the last
Elague.
An so it will be with you; the
door will have een shut before any
'fart
of the seventh
vial will be poured out, for then w' l be heard s great
voice reverberating through the upper vault of heaven,
and, sounding even to the dark cells of the pit of woe,
shaking the middle air with its deep-toned thunder, and,
like the lightning, darting its vivid Hash ot' tire from east
to west, will ierce the deafest ear, and make the hardest
heart to breaii, although a thousand fold more hard than
the adamantine rock, saying, "
ll is done." This brings
me to show,
II. What we may understand b "
It is done."
The first question which naturahy arises on the mind
is, What is done? When Christ was about expiatiug
for the sins of the world; when he was closing up the
work which his Father gave him to do on earth in the
Besh; when the spirit was about leaving the tenement
of clay which it had inhabited through a life of thirty-
three years of pain, sufferings,
degrivations, sorrows,
groans, and tears, made more acute y temptations try-
ing as the arch-demon of hell could invent; suffering
reproach from the haughty Pharisee, and the more ob-
stinate Sadducee, and contempt and ridicule from the
base rabble of his own people; persecuted even until
death by the envy, malice, and hatred of those who had
received boons and blessings oflife at his hands, -
he had
saved them from disease, death, und the rage of demons;
yet, in this moment of great need, he was l`orsak~-n ot'
all; they stood alhr oif; and when he was about giving
up the ghost, he cried, "It is finished ! "
and bowed his
head, and died. The fratricide man could do no more;
he had followed him to death; beyond that the envy of
his brother could not reach him. The rubble, who s
few days before had cried, Hosannas to the Son of Ds-
vid! this day were
crying, Cmcify him! crucify him!
now could cry no more, mt with downcast looks, re-
turned into the
oitK;dThe
Pharisees and rulorscould
donomoruthey plottedhisdestb.andobtained
4
cuaxs'r's noorm coimrs. 211
their object; but into the dark recess of the tomb
they dare not, they would not, follow. The great red
dragon (the Roman power) had sou ht his life when a
child, but the hour had not come. éerod so ht his life
when a man, but he could not succeed untilge last day
of the seventy weeks should be accomplished. Then
the powers of earth, wicked men, and devils, could com-
bine to take the life of the Lord of glory. Then, while
these powers had control, the heavens hid their face;
nature stood back aghast, and the material world shud-
dered with a
groan. Then, at that awful, fitful period,
he who had been the object of all this malice, cried
with a loud voice, "
It is finished !" The work on earth
in the desh is finished; the temptations of Satan are
linished; the persecution of his brethren are finished;
envy, malice, and hatred towards the
'person
of Christ are
finished; the power of earth, hell,an wicked men to do
any thing with him, is finished; death has no more ter-
rors over him. It iajinished.
I
Although Christ had finished his work, and had endured
all the
suierintgs
which he was to finish; yet in his
spiritual body, e church, the measure of his
snferirtigs
was to be filled up. His
peotple
must pass through e
same scenes in the world as eir divine Master had ex-
perienced from satanic temptations and the hatred ofthe
world. "The world will hate you and persecute
'you
for my name's sake, even as
they
hated me before ey
hated you," says our blessed Re eemer. Therefore the
same manifestations of cruelty, contempt, persecution,
and death, were to be acted over again in the church
until the 2300 years should be accomplished, when
Christ would come again, receive home his weary, per-
secuted ople, conquer death, and him that had the
power ofpdeath, which is the devil. "
And there came a
great voice out of the temple of heaven from the
throne,
saying, It is done." The power of earth, hell, and wick-
ed men over the dear people of God, is done. Their
temptation in the ilesh is done; their trials,
pffrsecutions,
sufferings, darkness, fears, and death itse , are done.
As the sufferings of the head was finished in Christ, so
will all the pains of the body be completed when the
seventh and last vial shallbepoured into the air, and
212 ucruaa xv.
cleanse the atmosphere fiom all noxious vapors, pes-
tilence, and death. "
Then shall the sanctuary be
cleansed," and then will the
great
voice from the throne
say, It is done. These old eavens and this old earth
will have passed away, and the New Jerusalem come
"down from God out. of heaven, prepared as a bride
adorned for her husband," Rev. ui. 3-6.
"
And I heard a great voice out of heaven, saying, Be-
hold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell
with them, and they shall be his
pegzle,
and God himself
shall be with them and be their G , and God shall wipe
away all tears from their eyes; and there shall he no
more death, neither sorrow nor
crying, neither shall there
be any more pain, for the former things are
sawed
away.
And he that
saigpon
the throne said, Behol I make all
thing
new. he said unto me, Write; for these
wo are true and faithful. And he said unto me, It is
done." Here we have the same expression as in our
text, having the same identical meaning, the same
:great
voice," in one as in
thaiahesdther; tht;
same throne,
'_
the
same voice speaking', ingto e same period' o time
when the old things are done away and the new heavens
are finished, to t.he same point in
proihec ,
"
the end."
Theretbre, as we have passed the six the seventh
and last hangs trembling in the air. The drops of this
vial are already contaminating the minds of men; already
we see the unclean
:girit going forth; the great city is
bug divided, and e signs of the heavens damte a
mo conflict, and on the earth a
speedy revolution.
Then, my friends, let us bo wise; let ua make s
with Him who has power to save or to deatro . For we
loam by our subject that the world and worldly scenes
are passing nway; every vestige of mortal grandeur,
every form of carnal pride, every fashion of human glory
will soon be eclipsed by the
gy-andeur
of that great white
throne from whose face the eavens and earth will Bae
away,
and the great voice from the throne will sound
the astrequiem,"Ihhdo1e."
"
Yet when the sound shall tear the skies,
5.5.3 naghmmg
lrxn
the giabe hen",
Ill ,
na i a
'Ihrazn as: yea."
LECTURE XVI.
f
...l..l..
,
MATT. xxv. 1.
'.l'hen shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten Vllgilll
which took their lamps and went forth to meet the bridegroom.
Pnanss are always given to illustrate some doc-
trine or subject which the speaker wishes to communi-
cate, and is an easy or familiar manner of making his
hearers or readers understand the subject, and receive
a lasting impression. Nothing has so good an efect on
the mind as to teach by parables moral precepts or
spiritual truths. In this way we are taught by visible
things, or familiar objects, to realize, in some measure,
the truths and
subilects presented. This was the man-
ner Christ taught is di ciples and followers, that their
memories might the more easily retain, and be often
refreshed, when they' beheld any scene like the repre-
sentation of the parable; and in this way, they might
always keep in view the important truth that is likened
to the parable. A parable, rightly applied and clear-
l understood, gives good instruction, and is a lasting
illustration of the tmth. But if we
apply the parable
wrong, if we put on a false construction, it will serve
in lead us into an error, and blind us, instead of produ-
cin light,-as Christ said of the Pharisees, he spake
to tiem in parables, that, "seeing, they might see and
not perceive, and hearing, they might hear and not un-
derstand." Men often explain parables by fancy, to
suit their own notions, without any evidence but their
own ingenuity
ioapd by this means there will beasmany
234 ascruas xvr.
different explanations as there are
in¥enious
men. But
I dare not tride thus with the word o God: if we can-
not, by the word of God, explain, we had better leave
the same as we find it, and not attempt what must only
result in guess-work at last; but follow Scripture rule,
and we cannot got far fiom the truth. Christ has
given
us rules by which to explain parables, by explaining
some himseltl The
exglanations given by Christ of the
gamble
of the tares an the wheat, is a rule that will
ear in about all cases. That he has given rules, is
very evident in his answer to his disciples, when they
asked him
concerniiig
his parables. Mark iv. 13, "And
he said unto them, now
ye
not this parable? How,
then, will ye know all para les?" That is, if ye under-
stand how I explain this
lfparshle, you will know how to
explain all others; but
'
you do not lmderstand how I
:lplain this, you cannot explain all others." This is the
e. Christ made all the prominent
'parts
of s. parable
Egures;
such as the sewer, Son o man; goodsed,
c ildren of the
kiggdom; tam, children of the wicked
one; harvest, end the world; napa-s, the angels; "ss,
therefore, the tate! are gathered and burned, so shall
it
bg
in
tae
end
0;
the
worldé'
dw. Here is a sample;
goo see tares, arvest., an reapers,are
dgxesrep-
resenting other
thirgs,
as we have shown. "
t how,"
say you, "shall we ways know what these figures rep-
resent?" I answer,
By the explanation given in other
parts of the Bible. 1-or the word of God is its own
expositor, or it can be ot' no manner of use to us; for
if we have to apply to any other rule, to explain the
Bible, then, the other rule would be tantamount, and
have a
precedence, and the Bible must fall of course.
Blhigmit
is not so. Then, to explain our subject, l
L Show what is meant by the Iigures used in the
parable.
III.
The time to which this parable is applicable.
an
III. Make an application of our subject.
If I will
uma
the figures in the parable; Ind, lst,
"kmgdomof ven"mesns the gospel dsy, I eircls
cnxxsx"s ncozm oormro. 285
of _God's government
under the gospel dispensation.
This I shal prove by the word of God. Matt ur. 1, 2,
"ln those days came John the Baptist, preaching in the
vrrlderness of Judea, and saying, Repent ye, for the
kingdom of heaven is at hand." That is, the gospel
day is come. Again: "Jesus came into Galilee preach-
ing the
gplepel
of_
the kingdom of God,
saying;
The
time is fu led, and the kr dom of God is at and."
Luke xvi. 16, "The law ag the
proémhets
were until
John; _since that time the kingdom of is preached."
Tllipthis, thihgospel
ilay comrplericed
with John, smce
w c time e ospeispreace
b&;Ten virginsixgpansénankindd
a
pa;-
'onarystate' eto ewooe troth to s
Lord, under the gos , and during the gospel day. See
Isaiah 1-45, "
or as a
tioung
man marrieth a vir-
gin, so all thy sons m ee
~
and as the hridegroom
rejoiceth over the bridgngim shall thy God rejoice over
thee." lt is evident, by the _second verse, that Gentiles
and
ilews are both
includedgn
this
pirolplaeoy. G d
"
ive wise virgins isa o eievers in o
or me
gmiam of me kinggialxlnoi Psalms nv. 13, 14:
#The k.ing's daughter is all glorious within; her cloth-
ing is of
wroughtigold.
She shall be brought unto the
king in
rglirnetntuo nleedle-;§i°k tlae virgins,
her
doom;
panxons at o ow er s e roug t unto ee.
;Ebat_Ifgigm comfpn time,o virgin daughter of zion."
m. 11.
"
Five foolish" represents the
unbelievintg
class of man-
kind,
while
in
this
probatiogiary state, un
erbtha
means
o
grace. his will be su cientl roved the fl-
lowing passages- Isa. xlvii. 1, "gorge down,,|ind sittin
the dust, O virgin daughter of
Babglon;
sit on the
g'round'; there is
no throne, 0_ dang ter of the Chal-
deans. _Jer._x1v1. ll, "O virgin, the daughter of
Egypt: in vain shalt thou use many medicines; for
thou shalt not be cured." These texts prove, beyond
g dplubtéctliat
the wicked class of men are called origin:
y e n res.
"Lampsguih a figure of the word of God; for that
only can tell us about the New Jerusalem; that only
936 mares: xvr.
can inform us when Christ will come again to the mar~
riage supper of the Lamb. The word of God is the
means of moral light, to light our steps through moral
darkness, up to the com' of the bridegroom to receive
the bride unto himself "This I shall prove by the cxix.
Psalm, 105, "Thy word is a lamp to my feet, and alight
to my path." Also, Prov. vi. 23, "For the command-
ment is a lamp, and the law is light; and reprooik of
instruction are the way of life."
"Oil" is a representation or emblem of faith; as oil
produces li ht by buming, so does faith, in exercise by
the fire of limve, produce more light, and gives comfort
in adversity,
hoipe
in darkness, love for the
coming
bridegroom; an the light of faith assists us to vate
for his coming, and to know the time of night, and to
go out to meet him: such are called the children of
light, because they are believers, children of faith,
"sons of oil." "
Because of the savor of thy good oint-
ments, thy name is as ointment poured forth; therefore
do the virgins love thee," Sol. Song, i. 2. "Faith
works by love." See 1 John ii. 27, "But the anointing
which ye have received of him, abideth in you; and ye
need not that any man teach you; but as the same
anointing teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is
no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in
him." lt is evident, that the anointing here, and
elsewhere spoken _of§ means faith, faith in his mme,
&.c.
"Vessels" represent the persons or mind that be-
lieves or disbelieves in the word of God, as in 1 Them.
iv. 4, "That every one of you should know how to pos-
sess his vessel in sanctiiication and honor." Also, 2
Tim. ii. 21, "
If any man, therefore, purge himself from
these, he shall he a vessel unto honor."
"Bridegroom" is the figurative name for Christ; as
the prophet Isaiah says, "And as a
bridogroom re;i'oiceth
over the bride, so shall thy God rejoice over thee. And
Christ says, "I low can the children of the bride-chnm-
ber mourn, while the bridegroom is with them?" alluding
to himself This proves that Christ means himself; in
person, by the bridegmom in tho parable.
cnnr|'r's snoena oonnse. E
"The door was shut,"
imggizs
the closing
up
of -the
mediatorial kingdom, and
`
hing the
gowe period.
l shall prove this by Luke 25-28, "
hon once
the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut to the
door, and ye begin to stand without, andto knock at the
door, saying, Lord, Lord,
open
unto us; and he shall
answer and say unto you, I now ye not whence e are.
Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and wiimken
in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets.
But he shall say, I tell
Jon
I know you not whence ye
are; depart from me, lye workers of iniquity; there
shall be
weeping and gnashing of teeth."
"Marriage" is the time when Christ shall come the
second time without sin unto salvation; ther his elect
from the four winds of heaven, where they have been
scattered during the dark and cloudy day; when he
comes to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in
all them that believe; when the bride hath made herself
ready, and the marriage of the Lamb is come, then he
will present her to his Father without spot or wrinkle,
and there marry the bride before hisFatl1er and the holy
angels ; removes her inte the New Jerusalem state, seats
her upon the throne of his glory, where she will ever be
with the Lord. When-this takes place, the whole body
will be present; the whole church must be there, not a
member missing, not a finger out of joint. She will he
perfect in beauty, all over glorious. See Rev. xix. 7-9,
"
Let us rejoice and be glad, and give honor to him, for
the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath
made herself ready. And to her was granted that she
should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white, for the
fine linen is the righteousness of saints. And he said
unto me, Write, Blessed are they which are called to the
marriage supper of the Lamb." Daniel
sais,
"Blessed
is he that walteth and cometh to the 1335 ays." John
says,
"
Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first
resurrection." All these are at one and the same time;
and how can we
exgectto
be free from sorrow, mourning,
and tears, until the ridegroom comes and moves us into
the beloved city ? Rev. ni. 2-4, "
And I John saw' the
holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out
W8 nscruu xvr.
ofheaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
And I heard a
great voice out of heaven, saying, Behold,
the tabcmacle of God is with men, and he will dwell
with them," &,c.
"
Midnight
ci?"
is the watchmen, or some of them,
who by the wor of God discover the time as revealed,
and immediately 've the warning voice, "Behold, the
bride om cometgl; go ye out to meet him." This has
been ilioliilled in a mon remarkable manner. One or two
on every quarter of the globe have proclaimed the news,
and agree in the time-Wolf; of Asia; Irwin, late of
En land; Mason, of Scotland; Davis, of South Carolina;
ang nite a number in this region are, or have been, giv-
ing tihe cry. And will not you all, my brethren, examine
and ee if these things are so, and trim your lamps, and
he found ready ?
"
Trimming the lamps." You will recollect, my
friends, that the word of God is the lamp. To trim a
lamp is to make it
give light, more
light,
and clearer
light. In the first pace, to translate e Bible would
make it give light, in all
languages
into which it should
be translated. Then, to sen to or
give
ever%family
in
the known world a Bible would make the ible
gre
more light. And thirdly, to send out true servants ot' od
who have made the Bibletheir study, and true teachers,
who would teach the holy precepts and doctrines con-
tained therein, and to emplo many Sabbath school
teachers, would in the hands otZGod be the means of its
giving clearer light. 'l'his would be trimming the lamp;
and so far as the foolish virgins assisted in
tr~a.ns|st:i'§
the Scriptures, in sending them among all nation,
employing missionaries and teachers toteach mankind
its principles, so far would the trim their lamp; but if
the had no faith in it, their hght would be darknm,
andythe lamp to them would go out. If the friend ot'
the bridegroom should proclaim the approach of him
whom they all expected, and should prove it ever so
plain by the lamp, but having no faith, the lamp would
go out; they would not be
ready
to enter in to the mar-
riaqiuhggpper,
and thc door won d be shut. This is un-
dou y the
'
which Christ intends to ctlny
in this parablemelgml, therefore, show, _
cna1s'r's sxeoxn comme. SD
ll. The time this parable is applicable to.
In the
chaplter previous our Savior had answered three
questions w 'ch his disciples had put to him on the
mount of Olives, when they came to him rivatel ,
"
say-
ing, Tell us, when shall these things die?" Ehat is,
when Jerusalem should be levelled with the
ground.
"
And what shall bethe sign of thy coming?" hat is,
his second coming in the clouds of heaven with power
and great glory, as he had before informed them, which
is yet future. "
And of the end of the world," or, as some
translate it, "end of the age," to which 1 am
perfectly
willing to agree; but what age? is the question.
answer, The
gospel age, or the kingdom of heaven. See
14th verse,
"
T is gospel of the kingdom shall be
preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations;
and then shall the end come," "
The law and the
prophets were until John, since which time the kingdom
of heaven is preached." The Jewish economy is no
where called the kingdom of heaven; but this expres-
sion belongs exclusively to the ospel ; and of course any
age in which the gospel or kingiamof heaven is preached
can never be applied to the Jewish
ggi. Any nov~
ice in Scripture interpretation ~must re
'
y admit this.
These were the questions proposed by the disciples to
their divine Master, and were answered in the
followigg
manner! From the 4th to the 14th verses inclusive
the 24th chapter of Matthew, Christ informs his disciples
of the troubles, trials, persecutions, and distress which
they and his followers should suffer, down to the end of
the gospel age. He also informs them by what means
they must sulfer -
by false brethren, by deceit, by wars,
rumors of wars,
clashirég
of nations, earthquakes, aiilic-
tions, death, hatred, o ences, betrayals, false prophets,
coldness, iniquity, famines, and pestilence, and these to
the end of the gospel
age.
From the 15th to the 22d
inclusive he alludes to t e destruction of Jerusalem, and
particularly gives his followers
warning
of what they
shall suffer, and informs them what to o at that time;
he tells them what to pray for, and how to escape from
the
siegp,
and how to avoid certain consequences which
must fo ow this great txibulation. -
940 micron: xvr.
From the Zid to the 28th inclusive, he warns his dis-
ciples against the error that false teachers would pmmul-
gate,
tha.t Christ did or would come at the destruction of
emsalem. He told them plainly to "
believe it not," for
his second coming would be as visible as the lightning,
and then every man would be gathered to his own com-
pany; o there would be no room for deceit.
In the Zlth verse he
prophesies
of the rise of anti-
Chnst, the darkness and fal of many into superstition
and error, and
thi;ipersecut.ion
of the true church. Illth
and 31st verse, e gives a
sign of his comin ,
the
mouming of the tribes of the earth, and dren speais of
his coming and what he ~will do. 32, Is the
sriarable
of
the
iiitree. 33, He enforces it by
sayirrgax
likewise
ye, w en ye shall see all these things, w that it is
near, even at the door." 34th and 35th verses, He gives
his disciples a comfortable promise, which was to this
amount, that his children should not be all destroyed
from the earth. But "
this
generatabn shall not
organ
till
all these things he fulfilled. To prove the w
gener-
ation is so used, I will refer
you
to Psalm xxii. il), "A
peed
shall serve him; shall e
uccoupted
to the lard
or
sgmcration." 1 eter ii. 9, "A c osen
gen¢raton,`
a royal
"priesthood,
a
holly
nation." The word gensm-
lion, in e Scriptures, w en used in the singular, I be-
lieve almost invariably means the children of one parent;
as the of Adam, children of Adam, chosen
generation, children of God, generation of vi rs,
children of the devil. So Christ, talking to his chilxrtbn.
and
instructing]
them only, says,
"
This
shall
zztnpass
till a these things be fulfille . Heaven and
shall pass away, but
mywwords
shall not
pus
away." His kingdom shall not destroyed nor
given
to another peo le.
36th verse, ae infomis his disciples that the day and
hour of his coming is known only to God, has never been
revealed, meaning day and hour only, whether at mid-
niqrt.,
at cock crowing, or in the moming.
erses 37--44, inclusive, He informs them that his
oomizg
will be like the deluge; unexpected to the
wick , as then. Hets|bthomths||l.nnsr;ththswil|
caars1~'s sxcoim counts. 941
szparate
the righteous hom the wicked; one shall be
I en and another left. Hd then gives them a
omg
to
watch, and repeats, "they lmow not the hour." rist
illustrates his warning by the figure of the
gd
man of
the house, and then charges them to be ready, as
the ood man would, if he knew in what watch the thief
woulgl come, showing us plainly that all true believers
will know near the time, as Paul says,
"
But ye brethren,
813)
not in darkness, that that day shall overtake you as
a ietl"
From 45-47, he tell us of the faithful and wise ser-
vant who watches and gives warning of his coming, and
speaks of the blessings that servant shall inherit when
he comes and iinds him so doing.
48-51, Christ gives us the marks ofanevil servant: lst
mark, he will "say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his
coming." He may not preach or speak Christ's
coming; no, he will only say it to himsel . But he will
not say he will never come; no, he will
only think in his
heart, "
My Lord delsyeth his coming. When he
hears the voice of the faithful servant
satying,
"
Behold,
the bridegroom cometh," he will
saylno
ing in public
against it; no, not so bald as that. either will he say
any thing in favor of the cry; but mutter in his heart,
"
My Lord delayeth his
coming."
The second mark,
"
And shall
begin
to smite his fe low-servants." It does
not
say he wil beat and bruise his fellow-servants, or
the faithful servant who watches and cries; but he shall
begin to smite, &.c., meaning he will begin the persecu-
tion, set others on, and himself he will keep hack, in his
heart deceitful. 3d mark, "And to eat and drink with
the drunken." To eat and drink with the drunken- it
does not say he gets dnmk; no, it only says he eats and
drinks with them that are so. By this I understand he
fellowshi with them, and is
engaged in, and employs
his time,I:is talents, his mind, to uild up some popular
and worldly object, which men of the world would be
pleased in promoting. He courts
'popular applause; he
seeks to please men more than Go . "The Lord of that
servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him,
and
inanhcéiirhe
is nctsware o£ Ami shall cut him
& Lxcfnaxva
nsrmdea and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites;
thre shall be weeping and gushing of teeth."
"
Then shall the kingdom ot' heaven be likened unto
ten virgins, which took their lamps and went forth to
meet the bridegroom." I think we cannot be mistaken
in the application of this parable. "
Then," that is, at
the time when the wise servants are looking lbr and
proclaiming his coming, and when the evil servant says
in his heart, My Lord delayeth his c
`
.
Then, too,
when he will come, and they that are ready go in to the
marriage, and the door is shut. This must mean the
time when Christ comes to judgment, for he cuts od' the
evil servant, and appoints him his rtion, and shuts the
door against the tbolish vir
`
; andmwhen they knock, he
opens not, but tells them, Frou' you not.
Vhere, then, is the millennium r
say some. After the
judgment sits, and not bethre; atler the bridegroom
comes, and the beloved city is completed; when Christ
shall move his saints home, and live and reign with them
on the new heavens and new earth, wherein dwelleth
righteousness. If there could have been a tnillenmuin
before Christ should come and gather his saints into one
body, it must be a very imperfect one. A part of the
body in heaven, a part in the earth, and the remainder
under the earth; separated, divided, wounded, and tom
by enemies and death, absent from our head. No, it
cannot be ; if in this life only we have hope, we are ot'
all men most miserable. if we are to have a temporal
millennium, why did not our Savior mention it on the
mount of Olives, as preceding his
cominil?
He did
not, neither has any of the apostles; but speak ot'
tmublous times, departure trorn the liiith, iniquity
abounding, and the love of many waxing cold in the
latter days. Our parable, to which we are now attend-
ing, says, at midnight there was n cry made, Behold, the
bndegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him. "
At und-
night;" this teaches us that nt the time ol' his coming
there will be much a athy and durkness on this subject;
that is the coming olpthe bridcgroom. The parable im-
plies the same.
"
l-'or while the hridegroonr tarried, they
all slumberod and slept." Cm wo not bear witness that
csars'r's' sscorm' colmvs. 943
tins has been the true state of the church for a number
of years past? The writers on the word of God have
adopted in their creeds, that there would be a temporal
millennium before Christ would come. I call it temporal,
because they have all of them taught that it would be in
this state of things, not in an immortal state, neither in
u, glorified state; and that Christians would have all
kingdoms under their control; that is, in a temporal
sense; and that they would be married and given in
marriage, until the comi of Christ after this 1000
years, or, as some say, 325,000 years. 'This has been,
and is yet, the prevailing opinion among our standard
writers and
"great
men. No wonder, Christ says, they
will say in eir hearts My Lord delayeth his coming,
and that the wise ahd foolish are all sleeping and slum-
bering on this important subject For while we look
for a
temporal kingdom, behold, he cometh and destroys
all that is perishable, all that is temporal, and erectu
upon these a new heaven and a new earth, which is im-
mortal, and that fadeth not away, eternal in the heavens.
I shall now,
'
III. Make an application of our subject. And,
lst. The time of the fultilment of this parable is
evidently come, in part at least. The world for a num-
ber of years have been trimming their lamps, and the
wise and foolish have been engaged in translating the
word of God into almost every language known unto us
upon the earth. Mr. Judson tells us that it has been
translated into one hundred and titty languages within
thirty years; that is, three times the number of all the
translations known to us before. Then fourfold light
has been shed among the nations, within the short period
of the time above specified ; and we are informed that a
part if not all of the word of God is now given to all
nations in their own language. This, surely., is setting
the word of life in a. conspicuous situation, that it may
give light to all in the world. <
This has not been done
by the exertions of Christians or professors only, but by
the aid of all classes and societies of men. Kin have
opened their coffers, and favored those engages!in the
work; nobles have used their influence. and have cast
244 nacruax xvr.
into the treasury of the Lord of their abundance; rich
men have bestowed of their riches ; and in many cases
the miser has forgot his parsimony, the poor havere-
plenished the funds of the Lord's house, and the widow
has cast in her -mite. How easy to work the work of
the Lord when the hearts ofmen are made
willinfg by hi
power! But shall we
forget those who have orsaken
the land of their fathers, the home of their nativity, and
have spent lonesome years of toil
among strangers, yes,
worse than strangers, among heatheni olaters, and the
savage of the wilderness, in the cold regions of the
north, and under the scorching rays of a vertical sun,
among the sufocating sands of the desert, or in the
pestilential atmosphere of India; who have risked their
ives to learn a
language, and prepare themselves to
trim a lamp for those who sit in darkness and the shadow
of death? No, we will not forget them; the pra ers
ol' thousands have ascended before the golden altar,
morning and evening, on their behalf, and Israel's God
has been their protector. Surely we may
hrpgme
that
these have oil in their lamps, who have sac
'
ced so
much to bestow a
lsmpmupon
others. But remember,
my brethren, the Lord is God, and let him have sll
the glory. This is the time, and the same time that
Gsbnel infonned Daniel, "
man;
should run to and tio,
and knowledge should increase. This,too, is the same
time when theangel
dying through the midst of heaven
had the
everlastiiif gospe to
preach to them who dwelt
upon the earth. ere are Chnst's words fulilled, where
he says, "And this pel of the kingdom shall be
preached in all the wogdsfor a witness unto all nations;
and
thenlshsll
the end
comle."
2dly. t is plain to any il' nt observer of the sign'
of the times, that all the socigacs for moral reform in
our world at the present day are parts ol' the fulilment
ofthe parable, giving more light. What of our Bible
societies? Are not these trimming the lamp for mil-
lions of human bei P Thirty
gears
past, morethal
three fourths of theniqmilies in w at we call Christian
lands_ were without the lamp of life, and now nearl all
supplied. Hanyofthosewho|stinl|eth¢§Lrb
csarsfs ssconn comma. 245
ness then, are now
rejoicing in the light of God's bodln
And much of this has been performed
f11'0:E'h
the in-
strumentality of Bible societies, and not o y
throu'-gh
the agency of the church, but political men, men of e
world, the great men, merchants of the earth and those
who trade in ships, all who live under the influence of
the gospel, the "
kingdom of heaven," have
engaged
in
the work. Will not the most skeptical acknow edge,
that this societ has succeeded beyond the most
sanguine
expectation ofyits most ardent advocates? And is not
this strong circumstantial evidence that the Bridegroom
is near, even at the door?
3d. The missionary societies of all sects and denom-
inations, which have been established within forty years,
have as far exceeded all former exertions of this kind as
the overliowing Nile does the waters of the brook Kid~
mn. See the missionary spirit extending from east to
west, and from north to south, wamning the breast ofthe
philanthropist, giving life and
vigor
to the cold-hearted
moralist, and animating and en ivening the social cir-
cle of the pious devotee. Every nation, from India to
Oregon, from Kamtschatka to New Zealand, have been
visited by these wise servants (as we hope) of the cross,
proclaiming
"
the acceptable year of the Lord, and the
day of vengeance of our God,"
carrying
the lamp, the
word of God in their hands, and oil, aith in God, in
their hearts. All classes of men are engaged in this
cause, from the gray hairs of old age down to the
sprightly youth of ten years. Who, then, can doubt but
that the virgins in this sense have and are
trimming
their lamps, and the bride is making herself ready .
"
Go ye out to meet him."
4th. The Sabbath schools and Bible classes are but a
part of the fulfilment of the parable, yet clearly an evi-
dence that the virgins are now trimming their lamps.
This system of teaching the young and ignorant took its
rise between forty and fifty years since, ut the very time
that the Christian world were praying, and ardently
raying, for the
coming
of Christ, before that part of tho
savior s ra er was orgotten,
"
Thy kingdom come."
From a
iittlzgigoixntain this stream of water has be-
SB aa:-reuxn.
very quarter are
th-mkmg at human'
or drum of know and the yadh are
tang! U
trim their lamps And vrhenthe haidegmou dull coma,
msyvrenot ressonahlyhope that the thnxnrhdk
youngmenand womenwholmveamiedil
"
lighttooggnnybe folndlmriaigoil iltheir
vessensnd theirlampstrimmedand
b tby
lookinieandwaitingirrtheoomingoftheir ,ti
when
cornestiynnyrisetomeethimintheak,
withtenthonsurd theirpupila,who
song
Tdthe
New
Jern'?lee.r:`f$yer
and
na Seng
dil' y, my young
'
see to it ye
lieigsein this word, "which isable to nuke you wb
unto salvation."
5. Tract societies are ofmnch nse,andarean eicisd
means to help trim the lamps; likemufers tht tabs
away the preventives to the light, so are tract;
E
take away from the mind the
prejudice
that
have against reading the word o God. They remove
those rooted and groundless opinions which many inn
that they cannot understand the Bible; they serve to
excite the mind to this kind of reading; they enlighten
the understanding into some scriptural truths; they are
pioneers, in many instances, to conversion; they can bs
sent where the word of God cannot at first be received;
ln one word, they are the harbingers of light., the fore-
runners ofthe Bible. And in this, too, all men in this
probationary state scnm to be more or less engaged,
l'rom tho king on the throne down to the poor peasant
in tho 'cottage writing,
printing, folding, transporting,
paying, or reading, these silent ittle memengers of the
virgins' lamp. "
Then all those virgins arose and
trimmed their lamps." Has not God's hand been seen
ln all this? Yes, glory be to him who hath disposed
the heart; ol' men to work the work that God bids them,
and to fhllll the blessed word which he hath given
tlwui. This institution took its rise about the same
time with the Bible society.
ti. _'l'v|nper|uice societies. These serve one purpose
ln trunming the lamps and preparing the way ins the
crrars-r's axcorm comma. SH
vigns to go out and meet the Bridegroom. Ourworid,
twenty years ago, be called a world of fashionable
drunkards; almost men drank of the intoxicating
bowl, and thought it noharm. But whenthe lamp be
to dart its rays around our tabernacles, it was foundgli;
woiiil experience that those who drank of the poisonous
cup were totally and wholly
unprepared
to receive the
warning voice, or hear the midnig t cry,
"
Behold, the
bridegroom cometh." _No, "they that were drunken,
were drunken in the night," says the apostle. "
There-
fore let us watch and be sober." And Peter tells us,
"But the end of all things is at hand; be ye therefore
sober, and watch Qmto prayer." How lb0lIBll would it
havebeentbrddninken mantobeset onawatch,ora
praying man to be found drunk! Thereibre, in order
that men might be in a suitable frame of mindto receive
instruction at the close of this dispensation, and be in a.
situation to listen to the midnight cry, God ordered the
virgins, and they arose and trimmed their lamps ; and in
all human probability thousands who would have met a
drunkard's grave if this society had not arose, are now
watching, with their lamps trimmed and burning, ready
to meet the Bridegroom at his coming. Perhaps this
temperance society is the virgins' last resort. The
Judge stands at the door; go ye out to meet him. This
society, like the others before mentioned is a general
thing, and all sects, denominations, and classes of men
are
elgfaged
in it, and it has an important influence
upon l men who are in this probationary state, and
who may be tenned, as in our text, "virgins" This
society is of later origin than die others, and seems to
be a rear guard to wake up a..few'stragglers which the
other societies could not reach. And now, drunkards,
is your time; Wisdom stands at the door and knocks;
let go the intoxicatin bowl, be sober, and hear the
midnight cry, "Beholtf the bridegroom cometh." For
your souls' sake drink not another draught, lest he como
and find you drunken, "and that da come upon you
unawares, and find you sleeping." 5, be wise, ye in-
temperate men, for the only went in to the marriage
who were found reaé, "ami the door was shut."
248 .
~ucrUu xvr.
"
Then came also the other virgins,
saying<ILorl, Lord,
open to us. But he answered and said, erily, I say
unto you, I know you not. Watch, therefore, for ye
know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of
Man cometh." "But the wise shall understand," says
Daniel, xii. 10.
And now, my Christian friends, let me inquire, Are
your lamps trimmed and burning? And have you oil
in your vessels? Are you prepared for the coming
Bridegroom? And are you awake to this important sub-
'ect? What say you? If this parable, to which I
have directed your minds, has reference to the last day
and the coming of`Christ; ifthe "
virgins' has reference
to all men in this probationary state, and dividing them
into two classes, wie and foolish; if the "
lamp" is the
word of`God¢ and "
oil "
means fhith in his word, or grace
in the heart, as some say,-then my conclusions are
just, and the evidence is strong that we live at the end
of_the
egospel kingdom, and upon the threshold of the
loriii state of the righteous. Then examine your
%ibles, and if you can as fairly rove any other exposi-
tion of this parable, as I have this, then believe yours,
and time must settle the issue; but if you can find noth-
ing in the Scriptures to controvert plainly my explana-
tion, then believe, and
grepare
to go out to meet the
Bridegroom; for behold e cometh. Awake, ye fathers
and mothers in Zion; you have long looked and prayed
for this duy. Behold the signs! He is near, even at
the door. And, ye children of God, lift up your heads
and rejoice, for your redemption draweth nigh. For
these things have he un to come to pass. And ye,
little lambs of the ilocqs, remember Jesus has promised
to carry you in his arms, and that he will come and
take you to himself] that where he is there
ye may be
also. But remember, all of you, the wise ad oil in
their lamps, and they were trimmed and burning. Search
deep; examine yourselves closely, be not deceived; and
may the Spirit which searcheth all things, and knoweth
what is in the mind of man, assist you.
BU*-» my inipenitent friends, what shall I say to ou ?
8ha1lIsay,as the master in the par-ahle,"BeholdIth0
cnnsfs sxeens eelure. 20
bridegmom cometh: go' e out to meet him "
? Prepare
to meet your
Judie. _Nxaw he has given you a time for
repentance ; you ave had a probati season, and
ibly now the sceptre of mercy is h3d out to you.
gggent, or it wi.ll soon be said te you as Jeremiah said
to the virgin, the daughter of Egypt, "
In vain shalt
thou use many medicines; for thou shalt not he cured ;"
or as in the parable, "
I know you not." Have you no
oil in your lamps? Delay not a moment; believe the
gospel, and you will live; believe in the word of God;
receive the love of the Bride oom, and make no
delay;
for while they went to buy, ti; bridegroom came; and
they
that were ready went in with him to the
matting
an the deer was shut. O, think what must be
exercise of your minds when these shall be real;
when you will stand without 'sud knoc , saying, Lord,
Lord, open unto us.
Again I ask, Will you repent, be-
lieve, and be saved? Are you 'determined to resist the
truth until it is too late? Say, lirlier, what think ye?
"
We will risk the consequence. We do not believe
inyourdsy you tell uso!! The world is the same it
alwa s wss; no change, nor- ever will be; but if it
should come, it will not this ten-thousand years ; not in
our day, certsinly. You do not believe yourself. If you
did, we should call you a fooL"
Are these your arguments, sinner? Yes. Well, if I
had brought no more, no stronger arguments .than these,
I would not blame you for not believing, hr not one of
yours can you or have you supported with a particle of
gmail They are mere assertions; your believing ornot
elieving will not alter the designs of God. The antedi-
luvians believed not. The citizens of the plain laughed
at the folly of Lot. And where are they now? SuBhr-
ing the vengeance ofeternal ire.
'
LECTURE XVII.
LBVl'l'lCIIS urL 2, SL
A|di'yew|lnotl>erefomedhvmebythesethings,butwill
walkeontrnryunto me, thenwilfl alnwalkeontrarymlnyol,
andwillpumahyouyetaevetimesforyolrairns.
Wxareinthelnbitofread1ng` the
threatenings in the word ol' God, as denundiationsagaimt
some other people but ourselves. We are very fond of
throwing back upon the Jews what, upon the principle
of equity and justice, would equally belong to us Gen-
tiles. By this mode of reasoning, wicked,
unbelieviug
idolaters, murderers, whoremongers, adulterers, and
liars, may and do resist the force of God's word, md Bat-
ter themselves, in their lnstirl career, that the judgment
is past, and that they may go on in sin with impunity.
But it is not only this abominable class of mankind who
pervert
the word of God to their own condemmtion,
ut many of those who profess to be ions, and even
teachers and expounders of the word, dh take the same
unholy ground, to limit the Holy One in his justice md
judgment. And by this means they not only wrest the
Scriptures to their own condemnation, but others, who
follow their pemicious ways, are led into the same er-
rors, and the way of tnxth is evil spoken o£
This manner of expounding Scripture has been used
as the last resort against my appeals to the heart and
consciences of sinners, to prepare to meet God in
gg;-
ment. Let me use what
passage
I please in the `p~
tures, whether in tho Od or New Testament, them
.l.
canrsvs sloonn comms 251
wicked, lusttiil ilatterers of mankind, are ready, with a.
host of learned commentaries, to show that it was applied
to the Jews, and to them only; and then taunt me with
this witty saying-" What! you, an unlearned
maui
think to teach us, contrary to our
great and learne
commentators!" This, my friends, is the only argu-
ment that has ever been produced against my warnings,
and proofs of God's near approach to judge the world in
righteousness. And here, too, I pledge myself to show
that many, and perhaps that, in many cases, a major part,
of these commentators are on my side of the question.
I know that, in the subject now aboutto be presented,
this argument will be used-"O! that had reference to
the Jews only;" and you will, like the wicked Jews,
put far oil' the evil day, until you are
caught
in the snare,
and perish in the pit. 'The Jews in e days of the
prophets said; Ezek. xii. 27, "The vision that he seeth
is for many
days
to come, and he prophesieth of the
times that are ar oil" You see, in this sam le given
us of the Jews, that the same ungodly, wicked? pervert-
ing, putting oh' on to others what belongs to us in the
visions and threatenings of God against sin, was mani-
festly the character of the Jews in that day, as it is
in ours. The difference is only circumstantial.
They put it oil' a
great while to come; we, a
great while
back. They cast it forward on to the backs of the Gen-
tiles; we throw it back into the faces of the Jews.
'l'his is the wicked disposition of ,man in his natural
state-selflrighteous and self-justificatory. Therefore,
use this weapon if you please; it will
only discover to
angels and men your true character, and (rod's justice
in our condemnation. "He that covereth his sins
shag not prosper; but whoso coufesseth and forsaketh
them shall have mercy," Prov. xxvlii. 13. Yet we shall
find some things, at least, true,-that the law of God
and punishment for sin are the same in all
ages,
and
will he the same in all eternity. If the sins o the old
world brought the flood and destruction
upon the un-
godly, so will the sins of the present world, if committed
Ill the same ungodly spirit, bring down similar judgments
252 -_ uxrruaxxvrr.
and destruction upon us. If Sodom and Gomorrah and
the cities of the plain, were destroyed for their abuse of
the
blessings
which God had given them, so shall we be
destroyed or our abuse of similar ones. And if the
Jews, for their
tpgide,arrogance, self-sumciency, idolatry,
and departure m the known commands of God's house,
were punished with the sword, pestilence,
captivity
and
persecution; so, most assuredly, will the peop e of God,
in every age, whether under Jews or Gentiles, suder the
like or similar judgments. This can be proved abun-
dantly in all parts ofthe word oi`God, and ln the history,
of the church in every age. And didwe not pervert
the word of God to support our secmrian
`
iplea, and
to gratify our lustful appetites, we m' t foresee the
consequence of apostasy from God, his aws a.nd com-
mands; aswecan foresee the etfectsof anyor allthe
laws of nature, with which we are so well acquainted.
When leaves put. forth we know that summer is nigh.
When the wind blows long from the south we know it
will bringrain. Just so trueare all the morallawsot'
God. Sin will brin death, and pride must bring a falL
The laws of God's giouse are equally as perunnent as
the laws of nature; and grace or mercy, call it which
you please, are founded upon the law of cause and ef-
fect as strong as the laws of adhesion and
repulsion.
Go where you will,-climb
ulpnto
heaven, or ig into
the depths of hell,--you will d an immovable, fixed,
and an eternal law of cause and efect. Let a man love
his Maker, obey his laws, and he is
hajipy.
Let him
love self only, and disobey the laws an commands ol'
God, and misery is the lot. of his inheritance, although
the world was at his command. Here, then, isthegreat
secret, that mankind must be
reformedxeor they can
never be happy; in one word, they must bom of the
Spirit, or
they cannot enter the kingdom of God.
The text is a prophec of God himself,
given
to Mo-
ses, andby him revealedtothepeople; an isapartof
those lively uncles
whicllidlérasubeen coiitifiued
as bind-
ingnponuspvholiveu egospe
'
asupon
themwholivsdinthedaysofthety` priesthood.
cnsnfs sxceim coiture. 5
It is a prophec of what would ha to the people of
God as a punighment for conduct :herein specified. I
shall, therefore, in explanation of our subject, show,
I. For what the people of God are punished;
II. Show how they are punished; and,
III. The time they will be punished. ~
I. First, then., we are to examine the cause of their
punishment. The text tells us that itis because
they
"will not be reformed
by me by these things, but w`
walk contrary unto me; that is, unto God.
lst. A perverse will. We should suppose that a man
who has had his will subdued by the love and Spirit of
God, could not be in possession of a will so diametri-
cally opposed to the will of God. Yet history and facts
show us
plainly that it is so. David, a man after God's
own heart, did perform, by his own will, that which was
strictly forbidden in the law and commands of God.
Peter, too, after his Lord told him he was every whit
clean, and after he boldly asserted that, if all men should
forsake Christ, he would not, immediately and willingly,
as it is implied, cursed and swore, and said he knew not
the man. I am aware that the theory ofthe present day
is contrary to the idea that the Christian has two wills,
camal and spiritual; but, upon this theory, I cannot ac-
count for the idea of Christians being punished at all,
either on the principle ofjustice or equity. Therefore I
am constrained to believe that, in the heart of a Chris-
tian, there are two wills. Sometimes he is in subjection
to the will of God, and enjoys the sweets of reconcilia-
tion; and again his own will governs and controls his
acts, and he must feel the chastising rod of his heavenly
Father for his wilful disobedience or
.neglect of his reli-
gious duty. It cannot be the will of God that his peo-
ple "
will not be reformed by him." Here is another
idea conveyed in our text, which shows that the heart of
a Christian is not wholly pure,-"will not be reformed
by God ;" showing the same independent spirit that our
primitive father and mother did in the fall, "to be as
gods." We cannot bear the idea of' being dependent
on God for our reformation. Let us have the power of
doing' it
ourselve;,2
and we will not reject it; but to say
54 uernuxvm
we are wholly dependent on God is a hard doctrine: we
will not subscribe to such humiliating terms. How can
we tell sinnersto reform, iftheycannot do it? "Where
is my guilt? If I cannot reform myself; surely God
would be unjust to condemn me for not doing whatl
cannot do." And thus you argue, throwing all the
blame upon God, when all that God has required in the
text, is, that you should be willing that he should do the
work of reformation for you. And surel God must be
the best workman of the two. God says he punishes us,
for "ye will not be reformed by me." This, my Chris-
tian friend, is our crime, for which the church has been
and will be punished seven times. "
And if ye will not
be reformed by me by these things." What does God
mean by "these thi "? I answer, It is God does the
work, and he meansngis
petaple
shall give him the glory;
and when they have passe through the fumace of al'-
diction, and when seven times has passed over them, as
it did over Nebuchadnezzar, then will the church, like
that proud monarch, learn that God rules in heaven and
earth. But could we be willing to lea.rn this lesson
without this
énunishment, "by these
thinis,"
that is, by
the word of od, by the preached gospel, y the mercies
of God, by blessings of heaven from above, by blessings
of the earth beneath, by the love of God, by the death
of Christ, by the ministry of angels, by the strivings of
the Holy Spirit; in one word, by all the means ofgrace;
if all these things could teach us that God was the Au-
thor and Finisher of our faith, and make us willing to
be reformed by him, -then, indeed, he would not have
punished us. But, alas! without chastiselnents we
should be "
bastards, and not sons." Therefore the
cause why the Christian must be punished,-to subdue
their proud, rebellious wills, to humble their haughty
and selfish heads. They must suffer all that wicked
men or devils canheap upon them, they must. till up thc
measure of Christ.'s sulferings in his body, which is the
church, in order to make them fit for heaven or happi-
ness. '1'hey must, like gold, be seven times purified.
As l have before said, all the mercies of God, and bless
tngsofheavmandoarth,conldnotssvetboehurch
ennx|'r's smceim comms. 255
without the curse and punishment denounced in the
word of God. And these, too, must be
manaie: by that
all-powerfi1lArm, the great Jehovah, who, b
`
wisdom
and power, by his grace and rod, will male all things
work for the good ot' his church, and will tinall redound
to his glory. And at last it will be said, "These have
come through great tribulation, having washed their
robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
II. I am to show how th are punished.
lst. They are punishedezy their own deeds. David
went with broken bones to his grave; and Peter, when
his Lord looked upon him, went out and wept bitterly.
Paul had a thorn in his desh lest-he should be exalted
above measure. The Jews courted an alliance with
-Babylon, and by that means were led into bondage and
captivity many years. They, contrary to God's express
command, afterwards made a
league
with the Romans,
and by them was their city an sanctuary destroyed,
and their nation scattered to the four winds of heaven.
The church, after the Christian era, courted the popular
favor ofthe kings of the earth, and
immediately
suifered
the ten
fpersecutions.
She afterwards sought or secular
power or her bishops, and by the same power was
driven into the wilderness, and passed through a thou-
sand two hundred and sixty years of torture, darkness,
and death. The church, recently, has been courting
popularity from the world, raising up a learned ministry,
worshipping at the shrine of ancient and modern
philos-
ophy; and already her ranks are broken, her piety on
the wane, her efforts paralyzed, and infidelity gaining
round.
g
2d. By wicked and designing men. Let us remem-
ber how Balsam taught Balak to east stumbling-blocks
before the children of Israel. Witness the false proph-
ets in the days of the k' s of Israel; also the wicked
and designin men inuige days of. Jeremiah and the
prophets; and, finally, the division and subdivision by
wicked men at the final destruction of Jerusalem. See
some, also, in the apostles' days -" false apostles, dev
ceitful workers, transfomiing themselves into the apos-
tles of Christ, .2 Cor. xi. 13; some, also, "
who subvert-
56 alcfunlxvra
edwholehouséqtuc' thingsthey oughtnotbr
tilthy lucre's sake," Tiuhix. ll; others, who crept into
houses, leading captive silly women laden with divers
lusts; some, teachin the doctrines and commandments
of men, b
` '
in gamnable heresies, and denying the
Lordthst bouggt them. And from that day unto this,
in every age,
and eva
church,
divisggn, wounds, and
putrefy sores, ve n experrenc through false,
wickedrgid designing professors.
3d. The churc has been punished by the kings and
rulers of this world. There was a season, in the days
of David and Solomon, and alter her deliverance from
Egyptian bondage under Moses and Joshua, and so on
downto the days of Manasseh, when the church, the
people
of God, were govemed by their own rulers and
aws in a great measure. But since the days of Ma-
nasseh not a
igoment
has
usekelnj
ed
offresgte, lags'
has
been scattere among
'
o wo as
Jererp,iahAtl':p prsghet
has
prop
esied she
wosld. Jzru
xv. "
cause to be remove into
kingdoms pf the earth, because of Manalseh, the son of
.lilezekiahhlring
of
Judzii,
for that which
fheuldid
in
Jem;
em. ere began e
"scattering o e powero
the holy people," and
when seven times be accom-
plished, then
all "these things" shall be iimshed;
rs, the church will then have
passed
the ordeal of tnal
and chustisement. "
Manasse made Judah and the in-
habitants of Jerusalem to err, and to do worse than the
heathen." "
Wherefore the Lord brought upon them the
captains of the host of the king of
Assy-rin,
which took
Manasseh among the thorns, and bound 'm with fetters,
and carried him to Babylon. And when he was in all
diction, he besought the Lord his God, and humbled
himself greatly before the God of his fathers," 9 Chron.
xxxiii. 9-12. We loam in this passage the cause and
effect. The cause of' their captivity was their errors
and wicked conduct. The effect. was their captivit to
the of Babylon, and their humility in their aiiic-
"OIL nd although Manasseh was restored to his king-
dom again atber his humiliation, yet the children of Ju-
dahandlerusalernweroneveriieefmmtliehbyluih
enrsfs noon comms. 857
yoke again while the
kir§dom
of Babylon stood, but had
to pay them tribute nut' the Medea and Persians con-
quered Babylon, which was about one hundred and forty
yearsattter therliigst tileptigkitykgl Bagyépn
of Judah
ang
erus em. n t e e an ersians rei e
over the Jews, and made them pay tribute, andgxput
a yoke of
bondage upon them, until Alexander the
Grecian*conqugre tlr;em,thab¢at two
htundred Eid
two
yearsa erwar ; w n e recrans ecame e mas-
ters of Judea, and continued the yoke of bondage, car-
ryéijig avzizy inatougagglivity many of the
prilgcipal cgaiaens
o erus em, o igin them to paytri ute,an eir
young men to serve as soldiers in _their armies; destroy-
igg
their
riches, dililing tilleir sgnctugrhy,
and
compeléirfg
t emtoworsrip eir go an sac' ce to theiri os,
This govemment lasted one hundred and seventy-seven
£ears,
when the Romans made the Grecian general
ucchides withdraw las army from Jerusalem, and never
trouble the Jews any more, as Maccabees tells us in
his first book, viii. 31, 32; also, ix. 1, 72, 73. This was
one hundred and
fiityeight years before Christ; the
Babylonlans, Medes and~ ersians, and Grecians, having
each in their turn ruled over and led into captivity,
robbed and
spilled
the
childgleuif
Judah
andfltehmsalrxmhm,
and scattere em amo l e nations o e ea ,
as Moses and all the proufgiets had foretold; in all, from
the captivity of Manasseh, Eve hundred and nineteen
ears.
y
No man can read this prophecy, from which our text
is taken, and the other prophets who have spoken of
these
thiggs, andftrgrderstaid tgiem literally, and
tlgen
read the is o e wor an com them tnget er
carefully, mat reason decide, andpldeean intidel. It
would be impossible. The devil knows this; and, there-
fore, he uses all the art he is master of to prevent those
whom he wishes to destroy from reading the prophecies.
He tells them
the;
are dark and intricate. And if this
argument succee s it is well; he is sure of his prey.
But if they reason on the subject, and say,
"
If God has
revealed himself by the prophets, it must be for our
good; and if
iswise,asallagreeheis,ifthereis
is wise, as all agree he is, if there is
5 rxcfualxvu. »
aGod,then itmmtbeinthe best posihle nnmerfor
man to uncbrshnd. I will examine and see." He than
tallsthem it is
@ption&Jelookintn futurity.
2111
succeedin
`
vering thmgs` toeome,it
`
mluymake you miserable" Should
temptatkgrxl
vent you tiom and tryin to erdsnd,
`
is sureofhis prey. ou"will nitbereibrmed bythese
things." Butsuppose you let reason work, and think,
"IfGodisspeakingbyhhprophetstom,su1elyit
wonldbesinnottohear; fbrhehssalegalrighttoonr
earsandattentiou; audonlyifoureqnalspeahstouqon
anygoodoriutat;restingsu`§>ject,itisapimo:';;1ldu|annel:|
not tn listen. will rea and hear w sa
the mouth of his servants." Then the devil will-teh
you that it is a sealed book,-nottnbe understood un-
tilitis fulfilled. But reason will tell you, What God
hasgiven for our faith and hopecannot be sealed in
thissense; lixritwould allbelostlaborin the prophets
ot°God,snd perfectiallyin the Giver; forthe history
itself wouldreveal itas soon and as wellas theproph-
soy could. And, in that ease, says reason, faith and
hope would have no food; for, without prophecy, neither
the one nor the other could be exercised; for in what we
know, how can it be said we have fhith? or, in what is
past, how can it be said we hope for it? Then, ifthese
temptations do not prevent you from reading and trying
to understand the prophecies, Satan has one more weap~
on, and it is his last resort, "
But," says the arch ene-
my, "if you are but prepared for happiness or heaven,
it is no matter whether you understand prophecy or not."
This secures and chains down the hypocrite and Phari-
see forever; this is turning things upside down at once.
For there never were hypocrites or Plnrisees but what
vainly imagined that they were, of all men, best
'EFI
re for heaven; and so
they
will neither try
'
Eth, nor examine their hope,
`
they follow this temp-
tation, until they awake in eternity, forever too late.
While, on the other hand, there never were real chil-
dren of God, but what considered themselves unfit fbi'
haven, the vilest of the vile; and if the should take
upwith thi|dsviceof8ata.n, theymust gully endis
cna|s'r's srconn colnne. 959
despair; for they could gain no additional evidence of
their faith or hope, only by a
diligent study of God's
prophetic
word. So thatl can boldly say, that reason
xtse f would teach us that we
ought to apply ourselves
diligently
and ihithfully to try our faith by every word
of od, and examine our hope in every possible way in
searching deep into the revealed truths, whether prom-
ises or prophecies, that the day of vengeance may not
overtake us unawares.
'
_
But not only the church under the Jewish
dispensa-
tion must pass through her scenes ef tribulation, ut so,
also, must the church under. the gospel; for John_saw
not only the elect Jews in his vision ot' the glorihed
state, but also a great number, which no man could
number, from among all nations and languages under
heaven, "who had come through great tribulation, and
who had washed their robes and made them white In
the blood of the Lamb." And, again, it is also evident
that, like the Jews,
thiy
must suffer persecution from
the kings and rulers o the earth and from spiritual
wickedness in high places. For Jzohn "saw the beast,
and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered
together to make war
against him that sat on
the horse,
and against his army," Rev. xix. 19. And Daniel eaw
the same beast "
make war with the saints, and prevailed
over them until the Ancient of days came, and
judg-
ment was given to the saints ofthe Most
High;
and e
time came that the saints' possessed the king om. Thus
he said, "
The fourth beast is the fourth kingdom upon
earth," Dan. vii. 21-23, meaning the Roman kingdom.
We must also notice that, like the Jews, they must be
cattered among all the nations of the earth; for here
they are to have no continuin city, for they seek one
which is to come, whose Builder and Maker is God,"
Hebrews xi. 10 ; that is, the New Jerusalem, which cometh
down from God out of heaven. The proof I bring you
that the church among the Gentiles were like the Jews,
you will find in the prophecy of the high priest, when
our Savior was crucified, John xi. 52, "
And not for that
nation only, (that is, the
Jews,) but that also he should
gather together in one the children of God that were
260 moron xvn.
'
scattered abroad." Also it is said, Mark xiv. 27, "smite
the
shgpherd,
and the sheep shall be scattered." And
when hrist comes to
judge the saints, at the resurrec-
tion of the just, he sends his angels into the uttermost
parts
of the earth, and under the uttermost part of
eaven, and athers together his elect, who have been
scattered by time kings and beasts of the earth
during
the
dark and cloudy day of persecution, from his cru
`
'on
to his second coming.
And if, in view of all that Christ, the prophets, and
apostles, have said in relation to this subject, there il
one doubt remaining on your mind as to the truth of
these remarks, I beg of you to read but the
past history
of the church, and you cannot but acknow edge, that,
thus far, it has been literally l`ul6l1ed. How soon after
the Romans had crucified the Lord of
glory,
did they
attack his church; and for nearly three undred years
the apo tles and eminent servants ot' Christ suiered all
the horrors of
RKGFSBCDUOD by t.he authority of the Roman
emperors and ings of' the earth. They suffered in all
manner of ways which the rophets had foretold they
would- by the sword, by wild beasts, by flame, by cap-
tivity, and by spoil. This was almost constantly until
the days of Constantine, who for alittle season put astop
to these bloody scenes; but it was but short ; for in the
days of Julian the Apostate, it was renewed, and con-
tinued imtil the barbarians of the north overran Italy,
and conquered the Roman empire. Then the church suf-
fered the same trials under her new masters, the ten
kings, until they were converted to the Christian faith,
when she enjoyed another respite of about thirty years
after the downfall of Paganism, and before the rise of
Papacy, between the years A. D. 508 and 538. But nov
arose the little horn, (Papacy,) which was to make wu'
against the saints, and prevail over them until the
Ancient of' days should como, and the judgment should
sit. This little lor| was to rule over the kings ol' the
earth, a time, times, :md a hall, or 1260 years: all which
has been accomplished to the letter.
III. I shall now show what is meant hy
~~
seven tinies,"
lh the text.
¢»
cnaxs'r's aacoivn comme.
lst. "
Seven times," in Nebuclmdnezzafs dream, was
fultilled in seven
years. Nebuchadnezzar, for his pride
and
arroguncy against God, was driven among the beasts
ofthe lie d, and was made to eat grass as oxen, until
seven times passed over him, and until he leamed
tl?t
the Most High ruled in the
kingdoms
of men, and ga §
it to whomsoever he would. his being a matter of
histor ,
and as an alle ory or sample to the people of
God fir their
(pride
ang arrogancy, in refusing to be re-
formed by Go ,and claiming the power and will to do
these things themselves,-they, too, like Nebuchad-
nezzar, must be driven among the beasts of the field,
(meaning the
ki%doms
of the
worldg
until they learn the
sovereignty of od, and that he ispenses his favors
to whomsoever he will. That, being a matter of history,
and a
sample only, was fulfilled in seven years; but this,
being a prophecy, will only be fulfilled in seven
prophet-
ic times, which will be 7 times 360 years, which will
make 2520 years; for one half of 7 times, that is, 3times
and a half, is called, in Rev. xii. 6, 1%0 days, (fulfilled in
so many years.) See also Rev. xii. 14. xiii. 5. Forty-two
months is the one half of 2520, for twice 1260 is 2520.
Therefore the sum and substance of the whole is, that
the ople of God would be among the beasts, or kinvs
of th; earth, seven times, which is 2520 years, one half
of which time they would be under literal Babylon,
which means the ruling kings of the earth, viz. 1260
years; and the other half under mystical
Babylon, the
mother of harlots, the abomination of the who e earth,
1260 years;
making]
in all 2520 years. Therefore
seven times would e people of God be punished for
their sins, to iill up the measure of the sufferings of
Christ, before they would be delivered from all their
enemies, and come into possession of the glorified king-
dom which was prepared for them from the foundation
of the earth. And Ezekiel alludes to the same "seven
times," Ezek. xxxix. 9, 10, "
And they that dwell in the
cities of Israel shall go forth, Jerem. xv. 1-3, and shall
set on fire and burn the weapons, Jer. v. 14, both the
shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and
the handstaves and the spears, and they shall burn them
3 |.|c1txlxvu.
wihhesevayunzmthattheyahalltakem wood
uutut'ti:eliel1Lltcmdownanyoutofthef'orests;for
theysin.'Iburnti:w'eaponswithtire;andtheyahall
them, saith the God." Ezekiel here gives us to
mrderxtanddnabynrearlofthe people ofGod being
drivenoutoftheir citiegandbyrhewadof God,they
would beenahledtodeitmyurbedestroyingtheir ene-
mies,andtospoilthusewhohadbeenspoiling them,
androbthosewholndmbbedthem;\ndthis,too,would
take seven years, or 251) days; and, Ezekiel being
commanded to reckuneach day tin' a year, iv. 4-6, then
it would be 271) yarn
The proper question would now he, "
\\'hen didthose
years begin? I answer, They must have
bm
with
?JIirst captivity of the tribe of Judah, the
`
itants
erusalem, in Babylon; for all the phets
in this thing, that Babylon would be the Eggdom which
would
carry
the Jews into captivity. See Jeremiah xv.
4. "And willcausethemtoberemoved into all the
kiugdomsoftheearth,becanseofManameh, thesonof
Hezekiah king of Judah, for that which he did in Je-
rusalem." Also let those who wish to read more on
this subject, read Jeremiah, chapter 21st to the 29th, in-
clusive; and the prophecy of Ezekiel, from the beginning
of the lst chapter tothe end of the $th chapter; also
the chapter in which is our text;-and we cannot for
a moment doubt but that Babylon is t.he nation which
was to make desolate Judah and Jerusalem.
Then, if Babylon was the nation which was to scatter
the people of God, and this, too,iu the days of Manasseh,
I ask, When was this captivity ? I answer, In the year
677 before Christ; see 2 Chron. xxxiii. 9-I3; see also
the Bible chronology of that event; this being the tint
captivity of Judah in Babylon. Then take 677 years,
which were before Christ, from 2520 yean., which in-
cludes the whole "
seven times," or
"
seven years,"
prophetic, and the remainder will he 1843 after Christ;
lhowing that the people of God will be gathered from
among all nations, and the kingdom and greatness of
the luugdcmwill begiventothalaintsofthclad.
caars'r's smcoim course. 26%
High; mystical Babylon will be destroyed by the
brightness of his coming; and sin, and suffering for
sin, will be finished to those who look for his coming.
"
And this spake he not of himself: but being high priest
that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that
nation; and not for that nation only, but that also he
should gather together in one the children of God that
were scattered abroad," John xi. 51, 52.
Yes, dear hearer, to them that look for his appearin ,
Christ will come the second time without sin tmto sal-
vation. "And can it be possible," says the dea.r child
of God, "that that day is so near as 1843? It is too
good news for me to believe. Yet the evidence is very
strong; it seems clear. I really believe I shall watch for
it with a
gaood deal of anxiety. And if it should not
come, I s ll, I feel now, be somewhat disappointed."
Yes, 1 am satisfied, this is the language of every Chris-
tmn heart.
"
But," says another, "it is all visionary. I do not
believe it. And if I had any idea that it would be so,
I could not take another moment's comfort of my life.
What, the
judgment day within seven years ? "
I cannot
bear the thoug t? I will drive such thoughts from my
mind. To you, whoever you are, whetherprofessor or
non-professor, who in your heart think such thoughts as
these,I have one word to say. Your standing is des-
perate
indeed. I am bold to tell you, you love not
esus. Every moment, then, you delay coming to God
through Jesus Christ, may be big with etemal conse-
guences,
even as the dafy of judgment, for aught you or
can tell. For instance, this may be the last moment
the Holy Spirit will ever strive; it may be the last
moment of reason; it may be the last moment of life;
it may be the last moment of time; and you unprepared!
0 God, reform these blinded souls, "who will not be
reformed by thee, nor by these things," or
everlasting
punishment will be their doom.
"'
These Lectures were first published in 1836.
LECTURE XVIII.
SOLOMON'B SONG vhl. 5.
Who is th s that cometh up
mv?rildemeas, leaning upon hs!
Tm: text is a passage of divine inspiration, which
strikes the mind of the bearer or reader with more than
ordinary power and force; and is propounded by way
of question, as though in the answer we
might receive
much instruction and useful knowledge. It is
truly so;
and may the
Sénirit
of God assist us to gather honey from
this beautiful ower from the wilderness. We find it in
the Songs of Solomon, which are highly figurative and
allegorical, and were when composed presented in poems
or songs; but by reason of the translation they have
come to us in prose.
Some have supposed, that when Solomon composed
this Song, or
Songs, they were composed for dramatical
performances,
ei ner as
preludes, interludes, or epi-
ogues. But I am of opinion that it was
composed for a
prophetic song of Christ and his church. But be that as
If may, they certainly do represent, in rich and beuutilixl
figures,
the character and love of Christ for his church ;
li wise, her character and love towards her divine Man-
ter, her connection to him, and her de ndence upon
him iuthis state of trial. That the ehurcilehas been, and
will be, in a state' of trial as
long as she remains im
feet, cannot be doubted by any man of common rcdfcrz
tion, perception, or knowledge.
She has enjoyed her seasons of roeperity; and hu
been strongly tried in scenes of urvenity. In tracing
cnars'r'| snconn comics.
`
85
herbistory homthe Abraham to the present
day, we find her varia le as the wind, and changeable as
the weather. ~
To-day, she is
comingup out of the wilderness lean-
ing on the arm of her be oved ; to-morrow,
"
like a
young
ioaslgaping upon the mountains, and dripping upon the
] .
Now she is seen among the trees of the woods; next
in a palace of silver inclosed in boards of cedar.
There we saw her in the clefis of the rock; here we
behold her in the broad way, in the streets of the great
city. _
Again we iind her among the foxes of the desert;
and anon we perceive her seeking him whom her soul
loveth.
She is asleep on her bed by night; and the same
nigyt
the watch finds her in the city.
ehold her Lord, knocking at the door for admittance,
while she is too indolent to arise and let him in. The
next moment she is opening to her beloved; but he had
withdrawn himself! At one time the voice of her be-
loved sounding over the hills, and echoing among the
mountains like the roar of distant thunder, has no impres-
sion; next the soft whisper of love gains all her atten-
tion. ~
Here blows the rough north wind and strong south
wind upon her spices; yet they put forth no
fragrancy.
And there the lightest breeze makes her roses b ossom,
and all the air is pertixme. ,
See her countenance to-day black as the tents of Ke-
dar; and to-morrowcomely as the daughters of Jerusa-
lem, and fair as the purple curtains of Solomon. To-
day she is "a garden barred, a spring shut up, a foun-
tain sealed ;" to-morrow "a garden open, a. well of liv-
ing waters, and streams from Lebanon." Now she is
weak as a babe; a
single
watchman can "
smite, wound,
and take away her va' ;" and then she is courageous
and valiant, "terrible as an army with banners." To-
day she is made to keep another's vineyard; to-morrow
she is realizing a thousand pieces of silver from her own.
She is truly a
clégngeable being, carried about by the
¢
U6 mcruu xvm.
aligntest circumstances. Thh is the description of the
church, as
given to us in this Song of Solomon's. I shall
therefore show in explanation of our
subject,
I. What has been the general character of the church
in the wildemess ;
thll.
Her character when out of the wilderness; and,
en,
III. Make an application of our subject, by showing
in what state the church may be considered at the pres-
ent time.
I. The church in the wilderness.
It appears by the word of God, that for some wise pur-
pose, God has called his people into the wilderness state,
time and again. lst. Abraham was called to go out hom
the land of his fathers "into a
strange land, not knowing
whither he went; and he obeyed God,
sofourning
in the
land of promise as in a
strange country, welling in tab-
emacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him ofthe
same promise; for he looked for a
city which hath foun-
dations, whose Builder and Maker is God." By this
means, Abraham obtained the name of the Father of all
them that believe. We learn by the history of Abra-
ham, that the first seed ofthe church was called into the
wildemess as a place of promise; where God took ape
cial care of them, saying to the kings and princes of this
world, "
Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no
hami." We see them supported and kept through all
the trials of life; and, in the midst of idolatrous nations,
among whom they sojourned, not one ot' diem lost their
faith, or became impure in their worship; but God was
with them, preserving them in war, famine, and the heavy
judgments of God upon the nations with whom they so-
onrned.
J
'1'he next account we have ofthe church being called
into the wilderness was in the days of Moses, when the
children of Israel were delivered ti-om
Egyptian slavery,
and brought out by the mighty and poweriii hand of God
img the wildemess, where she was fed, clothed, and shud
by miracle, and preserved by inanna from heaven, and
flesh from the desert; where the cloud of his esence
overshadowed them by day, and the pillar of tire b;nigh.
cnars'r'a slcoirn counts. 267
The angel of the covenant accompanied them through
all the wilderness, "
gave them drink as out ofthe great
depths. He brought streams also out of the rock, and
caused waters to run down like rivers." "He made his
own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them in the
wildemess like a flock. He led them on safely, so
they
feared not; but the sea. overwhelmed their enemies. He
brought them to the border of his
sanctualrly,
even to the
mountain his right hand had purchased. e cast out the
heathen also before them, divided them an inheritance
by line, and made the children of Israel to dwell in tents."
Thus sang the sweet psalmist of Israel. And what could
God have done more than he did for his people in the
wilderness ?
The next and last proof we have that God calls his
people into the wilderness, you will find in Rev. xii. 6,°
14, "And the woman fled into the wilderness, where
she hath a place
prefered
of God, that they should feed
her there a thousan two hundred and threescore days."
"
And to the woman were
given two wings of an ea-
gle, that she might dy into the wilderness into her place,
(take notice, the wildemess is here called "her
dpIace,")
where she is nourished for a time, and times, an half a
time, from the (ice of the serpent;" that is, away from
the power of the Roman beast, or power which is here
called the serpent. The prophet Hosea, in his vision of
the wilderness state of the church under the gospel dis-
pensation, says,
"
Therefore, behold,I will allure her and
bring her into the wildemess, and speak comfortably unto
her; and I will give her her vineyards fiom thence, and
the valley of Achor for a door of hope, and she shall sing
there as in the days of' her
(youth,
as in the day when
she came up out of the lan of Egypt," Hosea ii. 14,
&c. We might quote you more of this
prophecy,
and
show you how exactly every word has been
literaly
ful-
filled in time and manner, as John has hold us in eve-
lation; butl have suiiiciently proved that God has called
his church into the wildemess, for purposes of good to
the churches. I will now, 2dly, show .what object God
had in view, so far as he has revealed his object in his
word, in calling his church into the wildemess. Moses
|
968 s
ucrnuxvm.
says, Deut. viii. 16, 17, "Who fed thee in the wildernem
with manna, which thy fathers knew not, that he might
humble thee, and that he might prove thee, to do thee
god
at thy latter end, lest you should say in your hearts,
y power, and the might of mine hand, hath gotten me
this wealth." V
_ Surely, my brethren, if we would read this
pangs
and apply it home, we must see, unless we are wilf y
blind, that if we are in the wilderness at this time, the
object of God is lost
upon
us. We are not humble
enough to believe that od is the Author and Fiuhher
of our faith, or that salvation is of God. Are we not say-
ing, not only in our hearts, but also in doctrine, words,
and action, that we can do great things; our might, our
wisdom, our hands, have gotten us this great wealth?
Do we not see our benevolence trumpeted forth in
every publication of the present day, and our contribu-
tions spread far and wide P For what? To feed the hun-
a.nd clothe the naked P No, not literally, but mentally.
gigs, and do we not see that instead of feeding the pub-
lic mind with wholesome food, with the sincere milk of
the word, we have almost surfeited them with our tarts
and spices, until the public mind has become so heated,
nothing satisfies unless it has been highly spiced with
some a itated question to more inilame the public pulse.
More tlgan three quarters of all our contributions are used
to bloat each other up in self-righteousnes and pride; or
to pull each other down, with our excited questions of
right and wrong. '1'he moral code which God ve to
man for his happiness here and hereaher is demcgished;
and Judge Lynch is the order of the day, as well in mor.
als as in our civil aifairs. Where in the word of God
are we commanded to have our gihs for charitable pur-
poses published, either before or behind us, by a public
gazette or a brazen-mouthed trumpet? Yet at the pres-
ent day, we glory in our pride, and excuse ourselves in
the manner of doing it; for the end, say we, `usti6es the
means. Why, then, did not our Savior justilly the Phar~
isees in the same means for the very same
object-to
make proselytes?
The wilderness then, under existing circumstances, is
cnms'r's smcoim comma. 259
calculated as the best place to keep the church humble,
teach her her dependence on God, and to give her a
grateful heart. For there she mixes not with the world,
there she is not wholly engaged after the riches, honors,
wisdom, and fashions of this world. In the wildemess
she depends more on the manna of God's word for her
daily food; but in the great city, she seeks for the pop-
ular learning of the world, the vain philosoph of the
ancients, or the wisdom of men. There God fzeds her
with spiritual bread, li
'
water, and sincere milk of
the word; but here sliiingeeds on the old com of the
land; she mixes her wine with strong drink, until it
sparkles in the cup; she pours out her milk as a drink-
offering to her idols, and mingles the doctrine of God's
word with the doctrines of devils. There. she learns, by
a rich experience, her dependence on her divine Master;
here she
forgets
all his mercies, and ascribes all ner
blessings to er idol gods, or worship of her own hands.
There the daily presence of God prevents her wor-
shipping the idols of' the world, or following after the
gods which are no
gods; but here the presence of
worldly objects draws her attention from the one living
and true God; and she has lords many and gods many.
ln the wilderness, the teachers in the church are more
pure; there is nothing to tempt their cupidity, or foster
their pride; they feed the ilock of God instead of them-
selves; the church is not rich in worldly things to tempt
the wolf or the fox to enter her folds. But among the
citizens, she must expect, while man is wicked, that the
false and designing teachers will rush into her ministry,
to' subserve their own interest, and draw oil' followers
after them. ln the wilderness, the church has but few
temptations for the honors and emoluments of the politi-
cal world, for she is nourished away from the face of
this
wily serpent, which has coiled his folds around thu
heart ol many a
professor of Jesus Christ, and destroyed
all that piety of heart and life, which, separate from po-
litical strife, they once enjoyed.
Moses, speakinv of the church in the wildemess, says,
Deut. xxxii. 9-1§, "
For the Lnrd's portion is his peo-
ple; Jacob is the lot of his inheritance. He found him
%=¢
270 LICTUII XVIII.
in a desert land, and in the waste, howling wildernes
he led him about, he instructed him, he kept him as the
apple of his eye. As an eagle stirreth up her nest, ilut-
tereth over her young, spreadeth abroad her wings,
taketh them, bear-eth them on her wings, so the
alone did lead him, and there was no
strange god with
him." lf the above is a true description o God's care
and protection of his people in the wilderness, surely
this must be a desirable state for the church.
Isaiah, in his vision of the church in the wilderness,
says,
gxxxv. l, 2,) "The wildemess and the solitary place
shall e
glad for them, and the desert shall rejoice and
blossom as the rose. It shall blossom
abundantlyzeand
rejoice even with joy and singing; the glory of ba-
non shall be given unto it, the excellency of Camel and
Sharon; they shall see the lory of the Lord, and the
excellency of our God." Ifghe church had been in the
city, instead of beholding the glory of God, her eyes
might
have been dazzled with the glory of the world,
an
excellency of her great men, or with the gods of the
men of the world; so that, while in this state of trial
and temptation, while imperfection is found in the
church, tho wilderness is a
'place
of greater security
from inbred lust and outward oes.
'
Perhaps we have been in the habit of fixing in our
minds quite a diferent idea of the wilderness state of
the church, from what ideas I have `ven, or from what
might be proved by the writings 0?the prophets and
apostles. Examine for ourselves, and see.
II. We are to learn the character ofthe church when
it may be said she is out of the wildemess.
lst. Vhat does the church en`oy when she is out of
the wilderness? I answer, She e `oys possessions,
privileges, and laws among the kingldhms and political
nations ofthe earth; kings are her nurs` fathers, and
gpeens
her nursing mothers.
"Theiy
shhllfbow downto
ee, with their face to the earth, an lick up thedust of
tha feet," says Isaiah, xlix.2i. That is, the church,
:men
in this situation, receives the courtly smiles
ot;
great, and the svcophantic cringing of the litica
demagogue. But let the church remember, £oogh
enars'r's sscozm comma. 271
kings, queens, and great men oi' the world may bow
down, court, and idohze her, and may descend to lick the
dust from her feet, yet it is
only to flatter and to
betraié
for their "faces
"
are not Zion-ward, but to the "cart
Their motives are earthl , devilish. lt is a
serpent still;
they feed on the food og'serpents, the dust of your feet.
"
They eat the sins of my
people
as
they eat bread."
Some suppose it will be a
good y time, when kings and
queens will be fathers and mothers in Zion. But no,
my brethren; the t.rue church have but one father, which
is God ; and but one mother, which is not of this world,
but she is the New Jerusalem, the mother of us all,
which cometh down from above. Christ himself says,
"
The prince of this world cometh, and hath nothing in
me;" as much as if he had said, By and by the kings
and princes of this world will come and court you ; they
will pretend to great friendship for you; they will offer
to nurse, feed, and clothe you; but remember they have
nothing in me. You must, if you wish to win the crown
of glory, "
contend
qgainstprincipalities, against powers,
against the rulers o the darkness of this world, against
spiritual wickedness in high places; for he hath nothing_
in me."
1:-gain,
Daniel says, ii. 43, "They (the people
of God) sh mingle themselves with the seed of men,
(kings and queens, for fathers and mothers,) but they shall
not cleave one to another, even as iron is not mixed with
clay." Let this sutlice to show that it is the
dug
ofthe
church of Christ to keep themselves unspotted om the
world; to be separate, and touch not the unclean thing.
What is the unclean thing? Ianswer, Itis the policy
ot' worldly governments; in one word, it is a political
spirit; that spirit which is not peaceable, pure, easy to
be entreated. Who, I ask, ever saw a political partisan
have these fi-uits while prompted by that
spirit?
"
First
pure, then peaceable, easyto be entreated. A
dpolitical
man, if he had any conscience, would blush wi shame
to claim these appellations. And where, in all the his-
tory of the church, from the days of the apostles lmtil
now, have kings, queens, or rulers of this world under-
taken to nurse the church, and lord it over God's heri-
tnge, but that they have proved, in the end, a curse in-
272
'
aacruu xvm.
'
stead of a
blessing? I am bold to say, Nowhere! And
one thing more I am bold to say
--
That kind of morality
which requires the aid of the political world to enforce
it, is a hurlot in disguise, and her path is the way to
death; in her secret chambers you will End war, rapine,
and murder, and in her train will be seen revenge, ha-
tred, envy, and division. These are the temptations of
the church when in the city of the nations.
2dly. What has been her character when in the
city? Answer: When the Jews leh. the wildemess, and
entered into Canaan, their manna., with which the had
been fed while travelling in the wilderness, ceaseni and
they fed on the old com ofthe land. This manna was
a type of the spiritual tbod given by God to his children,
while under his immediate control and care. See Rev.
ii. 17. Old corn is a lit resemblance of the worldly
rights, privileges, and possessions among the nations of
the earth. The Jews, almost immediately alter they
'nook possession of the land of Canaan, began to mix
themselves with the inhabitants around them, and be-
came men pleasers, and a nation of idolaters; and the
very things which Moses charged them against, became
the common occurrences of the day; and on account
of which God suffered their enemies to bring them into
bondage, and, from a powerful people, that had made
kings
tremble even upon the report of them while in the
wil erness, now became a weak and degraded people, a
tributary nation, a band of slaves to their enemies; and
the prophecy of Moses, Deuteronomy xxxii. 15-20, was
literally accomplished in about twenty years after they
took possession of their goodly land. "But Jeshunm
waxed fat and kicked: thou art waxen fat, thou art
grown thick, thou art covered with fatness; then le
forsook God which made him, and lightly esteemed the
Rock of his salvation. They provoked him tn jealousy
with strange gods; with abominations provoked they him
to anger. They sacrificed unto devils, not to God; to
gods whom they knew not, to new gods that came newly
up,
whomtyonr
fathers (while in the wilderness) feared
not. Of e Rock that begat thee thou art unmindful.
and hast forgotten God that formed thee." The wad
cnnrs'r's sncoim counts. 218
tells us, Judges ii. 11, 12, "The children of Israel did
evil in the
sight
of the Lord, and served Baalim; and
forsook the rd God of their fathers, which brought
them out of the land of
Egypt,
and followed other ods,
of the gods of the people at were round about tiem,
and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked the
Lord to anger." They dwelt _among the Canaanites,
and, as it is said, Judges iii. 6, "
they took their daugh-
ters to be their wives, and
g,ave
their daughters to their
sons, and served their gods. a
~
This was the character and practice of the Jews, God's
ancient covenant people. They ate, they drank, and
rose up to play. They were proud, rebellious, and un-
godly. The obeyed not the commands of God, and
heeded not the warning voice of the
Almighty. They
regarded
not the
teaching
of the true prop ets, but
fo owed in the train of e popular prophets of Baal.
They persecuted and drove into the wilderness the
true servants of Jehovah, while they fed, c1othed,_and
schooled hundreds of the servants of Baalim. They be-
came a stifiinecked and hard-hearted people to their own
God, and bowed their necks, and were subservient to
the nations and their gods around them. They forsook
or demolished the altars erected for the worship of the
true God, and erected under every
dgreen
tree altars to
Ba/alim and Ashtaroth. They waxe rich in corn, wine,
and oil, et were poor and scanty in their first fruits to
God. 'lyheymultiplied in cattle, silver, and gold, and for-
got that it was God who gave them power to get wealth.
This, we must acknowledge, is the chamcter of the
Jews, as given unto'us by the sacred historians. ,These
were the ople 'whom God had chosen out of all the na-
tions of th); earth, to be his peculiar people -a people
who had seen and experienced the salvation of God in a
most miraculous manner; from Egyptian
bondatie,
from
dl'0;ght
and famine in the wilderness, and from e pow-
er o the nations who
souglit
to impede their
protriress,
or
hinder their_possessing e promised land. ey had
enjoyed the visible presence of the angel of the covenant
forty years in the wildemeas. They had heard the audi-
ble voice of Jehovah on the mountain ; they paw his p01-
274
'
Lzcfnan xvm.
er and
glory
on Sinai. Yet the next generation after
Joshua, ad become so deeply corrupted, by unbelief, in
gratitude, and rebellion, that they gave all the
'glory
to
works of their own hands, and worshipped idols o stocks
and stones.
This, you say, is a dark picture of man, and could not
have applied to any other people but the Jews. I will
agree
that no other nation were, at that time, placed in
li 'e circumstances with them. But dark as the picture,
and hideous as the detail, it is but a shadow of our day,
it type of the Christian church in the tiines in which we
ive.
"
Who is this
coming up from the wildemess, leaning
upon her beloved ?" he text does not tell us she is out
of the wilderness, but coming out; as
though in the wil-
derness, and while she is coming out, she leans upon her
lord. Her affections were not yet contaminated by a
love forthe world, nor her faith weakened by her vanity
and selilesteem. Thus was it with the Jews; and so has
it been with the church in ages past. Then let me,
III. Make an
apiplication
of our subject,
bishowing
what may be consi ered the present state of e
gospe
church.
I believe all writers and commentators on the Apoca-
lypse agree that the church of Christ has been in the
wilderness more than twelve centuries past. Some have
fixed the time of the church entering into her wildemess
state as early as A. D. 534, when the great controversy
between the orthodox and Ariana, which, in the days of
Justinian, hook the religious world into two at divis-
ions, like the two "
winfgs
of an
eagle," from E; convul-
sions of which many o the true servants of God, or all
of them, disgusted with the spirit shown by both of the
contending parties, who both claimed and used the civil
authority to extemiinabe or conquer their hetsrodox
brethren, fled into the north-east part of Euro , away
"
from the face ofthe serpent," -
the emperors oghc east,
und the more
powerful bishops of Rome-where for
numbers of centuries they lived unknowing and unknown.
Other writers say that it was as late as A. D. 606, when
the Pope, bythe concessions of Phocu, obtained civil
cmus-r's :mono comma. 275
and ecclesiastical power, and that he came out publicly
wearing
two swords. Between these two _points I be-
lieve al writers fix the time of the church entering into
her wilderness state,
"
a place prepared of God, that they
should feed her there 1260 days ;" or, "to the woman
were given two wings of a. great eagle, that she might
fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nour-
ished for a time, and times, and half a time, from the
face of the serpent," Rev. xii. 6th and 14th verses;
1260 days being the same as time, times and a half-
three years and a half; or 1260 prophetic days -
which,
according to my former proof] must mean 1260
years.
The question now remains to be settled,W ere and
when this wilderness state began, in order for us in
understand the present state of the church.
And first, let us inquire, What are the Scripture marks
of the beginning of this period? I answer, in the Apoca-
lypse, xi. 2, "But the court which is without the temple
leave out, and measure it not, for it is given unto the
Gentiles; and the hol city shall they tread under foot
forty-two months." '{'his is the same time, three years
and a. half; or 1260 days, as before.
Again,
Rev. xiii. 4,
5, "And they worshipped the dragon, w ich gave power
unto the beast; and they worshipped the beast, saying,
Who is like unto the beast? Who is able to make war
with him? And there was
given him a mouth speaking
great things and blasphemies; and power was given
him to continue forty and two months"-the very same
time mentioned again. And we learn, by this passage,
that this beast, which would persecute and drive into
the wilderness the church, would receive his power from
the dragon, --the same as in Rev. xii. 4, "stood before
the woman, which was ready to be delivered, for to
devour her child as soon as it was born,"--and must, of
necessity, be the Roman
power;
See Rev. 12, 13.
"And the ten horns whic thou sawest are ten kings,
which have received no
kingliom
as yet; but receive
power, as kings, one hour wi the beast These have
one mind, and shall give their power and stren unto
the beast." This text plainly proves that the
`
of
the Roman power gave their power and authority to
26 uc-run xvm.
thi hasgwhichwaato drive into thewilderuessthe
church, 'and tread her under footfortyandtwo
montlm"
We must look, then, for some law, passed by some
Roman emperor, and sanctioned by the ten kings, (for
they, too, hd the same mind to give
"
their
'power
and
etrengthuntothe beast," meaning, as I un erstxnd it,
Rome Papa|,) in order to find the commencement of the
church in the wildemess.
We find that Justinian, emperorof Constantinople,
formed a code of laws about A. D. 334, which were
Riplished
and sanctioned, in the Westem Empire at
me, aboutfour years afterwards; on which code of
laws, the Pope has claimed his authority to rule over
kings, and punish heretics with couliscation of their
goods, imprisonmeit or torture of body, and even death;
which laws continued in force until 1260 years afterwards,
in the year 1798, when the French people, under General
Bonaparte, abolished the laws, and constituted Italy a
republic.
Then, in the year 1798, the church began to come up
out of the wildemess. "
What," says the objector, "has
Bonaparte or the wars of France to do with the church
coming out of the wildernees?" I answer, Much; for
the same power that gave the anti-Christian beast his
authority, must take it. away. The political river Jor-
da-n must be parted asunder; the law of outlawry
against the church must be abolished, betbre she could
enjoy rights and privileges in the great city of nations.
In this war, under the modem dragon, the emperor of
the French, the bamers were broken down. And now,
the church is pennitted to exist in almost all kingdom
in the known world.
This is "coming up out of the wildemese," for she is
now permitted to publish the gospel of her beloved
among all nations. She can now translate his word into
every
langpage,
and send his servants into every quarter
of the glo e. By this were the armies of Christ to con-
quer his enemies by the "sharp sword which proceedeth
out of his mouth." And as the Jews ovorran and con-
quered a
large share of the promised land, after they
cHars'r's sxcoim comme. Q77
came out of the wildemess, even so, in these days, the
church is extending her banners over a
large share of
the earth, the promised land of the Christian. See
Psalm 22, 28, 29, and 34. Prev. ii. 21, 22. x. 30.
Matt. v. 5. For the apostle Paul tells us, 1 Cor. x. 11,
"
Now all these _things happened unto them for examples,
(or types,) and they are written for our admonition, u n
Xlhorph
the
eng
of
tht;
world is come."
nit
is
vprievinilethlc
at ea se,in is ,is
`
o etrave
of the clnllodren of Isral;,lss%ugh%e lvggderness, and
their entrance into the promised land, or their coming
out of the wildemess, asa type or resemblance of the
Christian church in these last days.
Therefore, we are allowed by the inspired apostles to
use their joumey and acts, to illustrate and show the
present state of the church, if we can gain any instruc-
tion thereby.
The Jews had a promise that they should inherit the
land of Canaan; the Christian, that he shall inherit the
earth-" For the meek shall inherit the earth;" and
"
The kingdom, and greatness of the
kingdom
under the
whpgle heaven, shall be
Eiven
to the
'peep
e of the saints
of e Most High." T e Jews use carnal weapons in
their wars with the inhabitants; the church are com-
manded to use spiritual one; to the pullinfr down of the
strong-holds, &.c.
They
were led by their temporal
Joshua; the church, by er spiritual leader. The Jews
conquered by sending out their chosen and expert men
with the sword; the church has sent forth her chosen
missionaries, expert men with the sword of the Spirit,
which is the "word of God."
The Jews had great success in conquering their
enemies when they first came out of the wilderness;
even so the church has had her unexpected success in
her missionary eB`or1s. The Jews, within twenty years,
became a proud, haughty, and an idolatrous
peotple,
ascrib-
ing all their success to their own
(power;
an
mingling
themselves with the nations aroun them, they began to
bow down to their ods, and worship Baalim, and Ash-
taroth; just so, am?in about the same
time, since the
cause of
xnissfggns began to succeed, has the church
278 ucrnnn xvm.
become proud and haughty, publishing her
donatiog
upon the house-top, mixing her moral questions wi
the political partizans of the day, and courting t.he
applause of men more than obeying the voice of
God: she is preparing for a. sudden overthrow, a
signal
defeat.
'
The church is evidently worship ing her god Baalim;
her teachers are seekin to be callled
bylgreat names,
such as A. B., A. M., D., D. D., or ev., &c; to
lord it over each other, and to be called master. Seo the
meaning of the word Baalim, idols, masters, false gods.
It is equally as evident, that she is bowing herselfto the
god Ashtaroth, jlacks, the
shigz,
riches.
,
Vhere, in the history of e church, can we find a
time that the people called Christians were, appa-
rently, engaged after the riches of this world as now?
Then, the agreement, in almost every thing, between the
Jews, when they came out of the wilderness, and the
church ut the resent day, holds good, and proves clear-
ly to me that the church is now out of the wildemess.
If it is not so, When, I ask, since the
apostles' days, has
the church been out of the wilderness. Instead, then,
ot' being in the wilderness
onltyi
1260 years, she evidently
has been 1800
'years
in e wildemess; and this
prophecy has faile , or has .no
meaning;
What
greater privileges did the c urch evbr enjoy
than now. Were their privile es amon the natiom of
the earth greater, even in the gays of the Roman em-
perors, under the nursing care of Constantine and his
sons? I answer, No. Then, surely, the church is now
out of the wildemess, and has been nearly or quite flirty
years. If so, then the 1260
ylears
of the reiffn of' anti~
Christ to give the court of t e Gentiles to he trodden
under foot have ended.
Then, the two witnesses, prnphesying, clothed in
sackcloth, 1260 years have ended. Then, also, has the
civil power of the anti-Christian beast, to rule over the
kings of the earth forty-two months, been taken from
the beast.
Then, also, has the "time, times and a halfl" men-
tioned in Daniel vii. 25, and xii. 7, had its fulfilment,
cnms1"s snconn comme.
"
279
3'to the end of these wonders." And now, the anti-
Christian beast will n_o longer be able to deceive the
nations with her false miracles, or make the kings of
the earth acknowledge her power as su rcme. ?1'hey
have eaten her flesh; the have made lier drink her
own blood; her great men have departed from her; they
are casting dust on theirheads,
crying,
"
Alas! alas! that
great city Babylon, that mighty city ! or in one hour is thy
Judgment
come." "And when she shall have accom-
plis ed to scatter the power of the
holy' people, all these
things shall be finished," Dan. xii. 7. his beast has but
one more work to perform-"to scatter the power ofthe
holy people ; to divide, that she may conquer. It is the last
glasp
of the expiring monster; it isthe
mtllying struggle of
;`emgp
of
fn. 1.;nd,forp,1it§emgamgnt, heyrrvillgucceeek
or ecurc must e um e;sé as eparte
from her Lord, she has grown proud of her worldly
connections, she has become haughty, and
_lording
it
résiler
the
alileritéxge gi
the
Lord;
She
must liikdivilfld.
e is ea y. e must e scattere ,
s en i e
grain in the
winnowing-fan,
that that which cannot be
shaken may remain. he will be delivered when her
Lord returns to the wedding, and sends forth his angels
to gather his elect from the four winds of heaven, where
they have been scattered in the dark and
cloudy; day.
Then will he destroy the man of sin by the brig tness
of his coming._ Then, too, will the little horn cease
making war with the saints, and no longer prevail
agéiinst tlmb
The
Anctilpnt
of
day; tlvillhfomia arad
'u ent
'
e ivento e saints o e ost ig ;
irndginhe time will gave come when the saints, in union
with their spiritual Joshua, will enter into that eternal
Sabbath of rest which remains for the people of God.
N
othinglcan
be
more clex,
or
self-evidtxilt, théin tha;
the churc is com ating e eat natu an more
ewnls, which men in this state ofg;-in are
prone to commit.
What shall we make of all these societies which the
church have instituted since she came out of' the wilder-
ness, but so many attacks'upon the enemies of the land P
The Bible soclhty, instituted since 1798. 'I'h1s has
proved a
powerful weapon to expel the moral darkness
$1 nscruuxvm.
fromthemindof the une
'
htened,too
of the votaries of
su$rslt?:i%n, and to &k the
pf bigotry. e have seen, in our
day, Deism
um
romahaughtytyranttoacng
`
cophant.
We have seen Romanism, fiom a monarch idling over
the souls and bodies of men with an absolute sway, be-
come a slave, a follower in the wake of Protestants,
in publishing and circulating the Scriptures. 'I'he De-
ists, a few yea.rs since, had the control of nine tenths of
all Europe; now, not a
petty kingdom under their con-
trol: the Roman church, for centuries past the mistres
of most of the of Europe, now a poor dependant
on the breath of lungs.
Ourmabnbfuzryaocrktzbhave carried the banners of
the cross where hope never smiled before, nor faith
ever lighted the cheerless sky of the heathen's land.
And we have seen nations he
`
the word of God, and
islands converted to the faith of Ee gospel of Christ.
Temperarwc societies. We have seen the attack upon
intemperance, the Anakim of our world, and we have
heard the shout of triumph from every quarter of the
globe. Rapid, indeed, was the marchtovictory !
Again,
our moral reform societies, our Sabbath schools, ible
classes, &c. &,c., are all so many attacks on moral evil,
which have produced, in many cases, wonderful effects;
so much so, that it has astonished even the projectors
themselves.
These aggravated sins are falling before the all~con-
quering wea n of God's word, like the walls of Jericho
before the blggts ot' the trumpets; and it will go on con-
uering and to conquer, untrl tyranny, oppression, and
gavery, in every form, shall be destroyed. Perha no-
thing, at the present time, impedes the progress orhese
things so much as the popular spirit, the pnde, and arro-
gance of the church herselfl She is, more or less, court-
rn the applause of the world. She is mingling her holy
rellgion with the opinions and
principles of men. She
ll
groud
and self-sufticient., dotlng upon her own works,
an
forgetting her dependence on God. If this should
bo the true state of the church, God may suEer nts
to remain as a
scourge to the church, "
as a rodzlths
fool's back."
5
`
cnms~r's sncoim comme. _
281
This-was literally _the case with the Jewish church,
after she came out ofthe wildemess; and every appear-
ance seems to betoken the like s irit in the church at
the present day. O that we could)be wise, and learn,
by the example set us by the Jews, that pride and self-
sufficiency are
always before a fall!
'
'
I know the objector will say, How can it be true, that
the church is spreading her banners over a large portion
of the world, sending her missionaries and the Bible in-
to every nook and comer of the habitable globe, con-
quering and to conquer; and, at the same time,
growing
more and more impure herself; becomino' haughty, sel -
righteous, and ungrateful, corrupt and lukewarm in her
faith and practice, idolatrous in her worship, and cold and
indiiferent to her first love? This, say they, is para-
doxical.
I answer, Paradoxical as it may seem, it is no less
true. Have I not shown that the Jews were thus para-
doxical, when they entered the promised land? Do
not the description Solomon hath given us of the church
in his Songs, the Epistles of Paul to the Corinthians
and Galatians, and the history of the church in the
days of Constantine, all go to show, that when the
church has been most prospered in her worldly standing
with the nations, with whom she may come in contact,
she has the more deeply corrupted herself?
This does not argue that she ought not to spread her
banners, send her missionaries, translate and circulate
Bibles, educate the rising generation, establish her moral
societies, and do all, and every work, which God in his
word has commanded; but it argues that the church is
imperfect, and that, in times of prosperity, she ought to
consider,
lst. Her prnneness to idolatry, her liability to selfl
righteousness, her excessive love for the world, the
temptations on every hand.
2dly. She ought to consider that adversity is set over
against
prosperity,
that her faith
maty
be tried, her
motives sihed, e body purified, an the sanctuary
cleansed.
3d. She
ougg.to
consider that the designs of God
Q ucruuxvm.
willbenceamplishegi, tlmttheworkmmtbeexecuted,
dmull power centres inhim; md, although the church
may be proud, self-righteous, and
my corrurtedb
unbeliefmdsin, etGodrilleven ybeguriiiel
luskingdomesu{lished,h|arill doneineuthuin
heaven; and the time isaLha.nd,when thesaimzurill
pouemthekingdomforever, even fomevsrandever.
LECTURE XIX
~:
HA'l'T.!vl.3-
Butunyoaotdisosrnihulgnsofthettlaslf
Ona text is a question proposed by Christtothe Phas-
isees and Ssdducees, at a time when they came to
hin?
tempting him for s
sign from heaven; and is s
reproo
upon them for their unbelief in the signs already given
by the Old Testament writers, which they professed to
believe, and which were
acmallyfuliillmg before their
eyes, yet disregarded. The Pharisees and Sadducees
were two of the most leaned and popular sects among
the Jews;
manty
of them were scribes,
lawyers, doctors,
and teachers o the law; yet so perfectly linded, that
they could not or would not apply the most simple rules
of
rntegretation
to the law or prophets. 'I'hey would
apply e rules of common observation and COIIIUJOB
sense to the weather, but neither the one nor the other
were used in understanding the Scriptures. They were
well versed in the skillto tell the weather for the mor-
row, but had no skill in the promises, prophecies, and
word of God. 'When it is evening, ye say it will be
fa.irweather,fortheslryisred; andmthe
`
,it
will be foul weather to-day, for the sky is red and fow-
ering. 0 ye hypocrites! ye can discern the face of the
sky, but oanye not
Qy the same simple rule) dboem the
sigm qf the time; 2
All the signs given in the word of God, concernin
the first coming and person of the Messiah, were fullig
ling before their eyes; yet they were demanding more
»
$4 ucruu nx.
and greater signs from heaven Christ had, andwas
then performing miracles which no man on earth could
Frfonn.
and they ascribed it to the power of Beelzebub.
o evidence had or could be presented, which they
were not ready to evade or deny; and yet they claimed
all the learning, all the wisdom, and all the piety of that
day. This was the character of those whom Christ calls
hypocrites, and to whom he addresses the question, "But
can ye not discem the signs ofthe times?" And happy
would it have been for ns, who live in this day of gospel
light, when the gospel shines with greater efliilgence
than at any other period of time since the world began,
if hypocrisy had died with the Pharisees and Sadducees;
but it was not so. Any man, ot' common capacity of
mind, who can divest himself of rejudice, or who will
try to see the character of man as seveloped at the pres-
ent day in matters of faith, will discover the same unbe-
lieli the same
disregard, the same taunting, tempting
spirit. conceming the second
coming of the Messiah, as
the Pharisees and Sadducees manifested in their con-
duct and conversation with our blessed Redeemer. And
the question may with equal propriety, and I fear with
tenfold force, be
put
to us at this day, if Christwashere,
as then. And I ave much reason to fear, that many
may be found among' our
great, leamed, and teachers of
divine things, who would receive from our divine Master
the same reproof, were he asthen a teacher among us.
"Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed, lesthe
fall." I shall, then, in treating on this subject, use my
text as a
reproof to us.
I. I shall show a number of signs which the Jews had
in that day, as evidences of Jesus being the true Mes-
sinh.
Il. Show the signs that Jesus Christ, the prophets, and
apostles have given us of his second coming, now fultil-
ling in this day in which we live.
Under my iirst head,_the signs of Jesus being the true
Messiah, were,
I. The universal peace at his birth. Oi' this Isaiah
ii. 3, 4, had prophesied 760 years before,
"
And many
people shall goandaay,Come ye,aad lst Ill gonpto
esnrs°r's sacoim colure. 285
the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of
Jacob; and he will teach' us of his ways, and we will
walk in his paths; for out ot' Zion shall go forth the
law, and the word ofthe Lord from Jerusalem. And he
shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many
people; and they shall beat their swords into plough-
shares, and their spears into- pruning-hooks. Nation
shall not lift up sword
against nation, neither shall they
learn war any more." his
prophecy
was accomplished
at his birthl For the temple of anus was shut the very
year our Savior was born, which denoted universal peace;
and this must have been known to the Jewish rulers.
Also the doctrines of Jesus Christ taught that they
should _forgive and pray for their enemies, and leam war
no more.
"
Peace on earth and good will to men," was
suptg bty
the heavenly band when they announced the
hi o the Savior in the city of David.
2. The star that appeared and guided the wise men to
the place of his
nativity, prophesied of by Balsam, Num.
xxiv. 17. "There shs 1 come a star out of Jacob," dsc.
3. A root out of Jesse. Isa. xi. 10, "
In that day there
shall be a root out of Jesse, which shall stand for an en-
sign
of the
people;
to it shall the Gentiles seek," dw.
T at he was a escendant of David was well known to
the Jews, for
they
were very scrupulous in their geneal-
o 'es, and from e fact that he was born in the city of
Devid when his parents went up to be taxed where their
names were enrolled.
4. Born of a virgin. Isa. vii. 14, "Therefore the Lord
himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall con-
ceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel."
This was evidently fulfilled.
5. At Bethlehem. Micah v. 2, "
But thou, Bethlehem
Ephratah, though thou be little among the thousands of
Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that
is to be ruler in Israel,
whosergoings
forth have been from
of old, from everlasting." is 'was
fuliilledhaccording
to their own
showing, to the wise men from e east.
6. Herod slaying all the children in Bethlehem, from
two years old and under,
pzxoshesied
of by Jeremiah,
xxxi. 15, "A voice was he in Ramah, lamentation
% ucruu xxx.
and bitter weeping, Rachael weeping for her children,"
&c. This must have been known in all Judea.
7. Land forsaken of both of her Isa. vii. 16,
"
For before the child shall know to re e the evil and
choose the good, the land that thou abhorrest shall be for-
saken of both her kings." Herod and his successor both
died before Jesus was of the common age to refuse the
evil and choose the ood.
8. Called out oflggypt. Hosea xi. I, "And called my
lon out of Egypt."
9. His forerunner John. Isa. xl. 3, "
The voice of him
that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the
Lord, make
straight
in the desert a highway for our God."
All Judea and erusalem went into the wildemess to
John, and of course must have seen this sign.
10. Coming suddenly to his temple. Mal. iii. 1, "And
the Lord whom ye seek shall suddenly come to his tem-
ple." For the fulfilment of this prophecy, read John vii.
ll-14, "Then the Jews sought him at the feast, and
said, Where is he? Now about the midst of the feast,
Jesus went up into the temple and taught."
ll. The gospel preached. Isa. lxl. 1, "The spirit
of the Lord God is upon me; because the Lord hath
anointed me to
preach good tidings unto the meek; he
hath sent me to ind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim
liberty to the captive, and the opening of the prison to
them that are bound."
12. The covenant confirmed one week or seven years.
Daniel ix. 27, "
And he shall confirm the covenant with
many for one week." John preached three years and a
half, and Christ three and a hal£
13. The blind see. Isa. xlii. 7, "To open the blind
eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the prison, and them
that sit in darkness out of the prison-house."
14. The lame walk. lsaiah. xxxv. 6, "Then shall the
lamenman leap as a hart, and the tongue of the dumb
sm _
fi. The deaf' hear. Isaiah xxxv. 5, "Then the eyes
of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf
|ha11 be unstopped."
16. The dead are raised. lsaiah xxvi. 19, "And the
earth shall cut out the dead."
O
cnms'r's _sxconn comme. 287
17. His
-humility
when on trial. Isaiah liii. 7, "He
was oppressed, an he was aiicted; yet he opened not
his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter,
and -as a sheep before her shear-ers is dumb, so he opened
not his mouth."
18. The manner and circumstances of his death.
Psalm xxii. 13-18, "They gaped u on me with their
mouths as a
ravening and a
roaring llion. I am poured
out as water and all my bones are out ofjoint: my heart
rs like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels. My
strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue cleav-
etli to my jaws, and thou hast brought me into the dust
of death. For dogs have compassed me; the assembly
of the wicked have enclosed me: they pierced my hands
and my feet; I may tell all my bones ; they look and stare
upon me. They part my garments among them, and cast
lots upon my vesture." This Psalm was indited more
than 1000 years before Christ's crucifixion, and yet every
word had an exact and literal accomplishment in that
transaction, and the Jews saw it.
19. His resurrection. Psalm xvi. 10, "
For thou wilt
not leave my soul in hell; neither wilt thou suffer thine
Holy One to see corruption."
20. The pouring out of the Holy Spirit on the day of
pentecost. Joel ii. 28, "
And it shall come to pass after-
ward that 1 will pour out my spirit upon all flesh; and
your sons and your daughters shall prophesy; your old
men shall dream dreams, your young _men shall see vis-
ions." The apostle told them that this scripture was
firllilled at the day of pentecost, and this transaction was
well known to the Jews.
21. The fulfilment of the seventy weeks spoken of by
Daniel, ix. M-27, which I have shown in a former lec-
ture, was accomplished to a day. And the Jews well
understood it; for
Caiaphas, being high priest that year,
said to the Jews, "
Ye now nothing at all, nor consider
that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the
peolple,
and that the whole nation perish not. And this
spa e he not of himself, but being high priest that year
he prophesied (or taught the prophecy in Daniel) that
Jesus should die for that nation, and not for that nation
288 ucruu xrx.
onl ,
but that also he should gather
together
in one the
children of God that were scattered a road." John xi.
49-52. -
This evidence was well understood among the rulers
of the Jews; yet notwithstanding all this scripture was
liiliilled before their faces, and all these signs were ac-
tually accomplished in the short space of thirty-live years,
and a cloud of witnesses testifying to ali these facts, and
they themselves had to consent that notable miracles had
been done, they believed not. Well
may'you say, dear
bearer, that they deserved wrath, and o was
just in
destrogng
their nation and place. But how is it with
us? o we believe in that word which we blame them
for rejecting? Are we clear of the sin of unbelief? The
Jews were looking for a temporal kin and kingdom.
And are not we
looking for a
temporal mslennium-one
in which the Christians will have the rule of the world?
Let us see to it that we do not stumble at the same stum-
bling-stone ; possibly we may have carnal notions as
well as they. Therefore, let us inquire,
Il. What signs are now fulfilling, which are
given us
by Christ, the prophets, or apostles, of his second coming
and glorious reign? And,
1. Christ tells us, Matt. xxiv. 14, "
This gospel ofthe
kingdom shall be preached in all the world as a witness,
and then shall the end come." ls not this sign alreud
accomplished? Bible translated into more than200 dill:
ferent languages; missionaries sent
among all the na-
tions known to us on the globe, and reformation succeed-
ing reformation in every town, nook or corner in this
land. The gospel has now spread over the four quar-
ters of the globe. lt began in Asia. In the apostles'
days, that quarter was liill of light. From thence it
went into Africa; and, for a number of centmies, Africa
stretched out her hands unto God. Euro too, has had
along visitation of gospel blessings; andxariow America,
the last quarter of the
'globe,
is
reaping a harvest of
souls for the last day. he gospel, like the sun, arose
in the east, and will set in the west.
2. The pouring out of the llol Spirit., and last reign
of grace. Daniel tells us, alter honaparte should come
cnius~r's sacorfb comme. aes
to his end, and none should help him, xii. 1, "And at
that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince which
standeth for the children of thy people." This 1 have
shown, in a former lecture, is the same angel that stood
upon the waters of the river, clothed in linen, Daniel xii.
6; also the same angel that John saw, Rev. x. 1-6,
standiptg;
his
right foot upon the sea, and his left upon
the ea ,
and in his hand a little book open. This angel
told John that he must "
prophesy
agpin
before many
people, and nations, and
tongues, and ings ;_" meaning
that the gospel must again e published, as it had been
in the apostolic days. And then would this angel lil!
his hand to heaven, and swear
by him that liveth for-
ever and ever, that time should be no
longer. Again,
James
says,_v. 7, 8, "
Be patient, therefore, rethren, un-
to
_the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman
waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long
patience for it, until he receive the early and latter rain.
Be ye also patient; establish your hearts, for the coming
of the Lord drawetli nigh." And now, can any man,
who has any knowledge of the present times, deny that
God has poured out his s irit, in a remarkable manner,
for twenty years past? glue not the gospel been spread
in as rapid and extensive a manner, as in the apostolic
day? Has not opposition and persecution of the kings
of the earth, of the woman that sitteth on many waters,
the sea, been in a great measure kept in check and pow-
erless, by some invisible power, some mighty arm, until
the servants of God should be sealed, the latter rain of
grace descend, and God's p es completed concern-
ing this latter
dai? Here, Ken, we have a clear and
visible sign, that ecoming of the Lord draweth nigh.
3. "Many running to and fro." This is another im-
portant and evident sign of the end. Daniel 4, "But
thou, 0 Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book,
even to the time of the end. Many shall run to and fro."
Whether the prophet means to be understood, "many
shall run to and fro
"
in a religious sense, or in a civil or
temporal sense, or whether he means in both, is perfect-
l immaterial for my e. All must
acknowleldge,
that this text is
r;5ma1-Eabiytirllilled in this day,in e' or
290 Lscruas xxx.
1
point of view. If it means missionaries of the cross, no
man can dispute the fulfilment See the heralds of sal-
vation crossing und re-crossing on every part of the liab-
itable globe. If it means co _
.on travellers, or the
rapid
means of travel, still our text holds good, and the
fu tilment obvious. No man, unless he is
wilfully ig-
ngrant, can
deny that this sign is not actually and 'ter-
a y fulfil ed. V
4. The great increase of knowledge given in the same
text as above. "
Even to the time of the end many shall
run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased." View
this in any point you please, whether theological or sci-
entifical, it is literally true; in this day of invention and
imgrovement, knowledge increases. What of the titty
di erent moral societies, which have become general in
the Christian world? Is there no increase of knowledge
in our Bible societies, Sabbath schools, tract societies,
temperance societies, and a
catalogue of others for mor-
al reform? What can we say ot all the inventions in
the arts? What of all the improvements in science?
In all this, is it not very evident that this sign is now ful-
filling to the very letter?
5. The great increase of riches, and desire for laying
up worldly treuures, as described by James v. 1-3, "
Go
to, now, ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries
that shall come upon you; your riches are
comipted,
and your garments are moth-eaten; our gold and your
silver is cankered, and the rust of them shall be a wit-
ness
against you, and shall eat your flesh us it were
iire. e have heaped treasure together for the lust
days." When, since the writer ot' this epistle was on
our earth, has there been such an increase of gold and
silver, and treasures of this life, us at this day? Our
rich men are laying up their Gold, silver, and treasures
in abundance. But, as though this individual exertion
for riches would not completely fulfil our text, they have
entered into all manner of companies and monopolies,
to "lieu treasure together." Vhen, in the history of
the world, can there be shown so many banking insti-
tutions as now? Vhen so much insurance capital as il
heaped together at this day P Are not our ricl|,men par-
caa|s'r's sncosn comme. 2,91
fectly infatuated with stocks of all kinds? And mo-
nopoly is the order of the day; to
'
d down the poor,
and heap trensurc *opether for tlielgsltl days. Can any
man, who has any kniwledge of these things, deny that
this sign of the last days is not evidently accomplished ?
Go to, ye rich men, weep and howl, for your miseries are
come u n you.
6. Th; unwillingness of men to hear sound doctrine,
taught us by Paul, 2 Tim. iv. 1-4, "I charge thee, there-
fore, before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall
judge the quick a.nd the dead at his
appearing
and his
kingdom. For the time will come, w en they will not
endure sound doctrine; but alter their own lusts shall
theiy heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears;
an
they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and
shall be turned unto fables." My brethren, need I say
one word on this passage? There is none of you so
blind, but you see that this passage does actually de-
scribe the most fashionable preaching at the present day.
How many thousand do run alter that kind of preachin
which is only relating fables, and that doctrine whicg
gives all
gower
to man?
7. Sco ers, saying, "
Where is the promise of his
coming ? "
as Peter informs us in his 2 Epistle, iii. 3, 4,
"
Knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days
scoifers, walking after their own lusts, and saying, Where
is the promise of his coming? For, since the fathers
fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the be-
ginning of the creation." A right understandin of this
text would show us, at once, that many of us, wgofancy
we are in the highway to heaven, are belonging to this
class of scoifers. First, they walk alter their own lusts;
that is, after their own carnal notions conceming the
coming of Christ. They say all things will continue as
the were from the creation; they must have a temporal
millennium; man must be mamed and
"given
in mar-
riage; the world will not be burnt, and, y Lord delay-
eth his coming, some sav a thousand years, and some
say
365,000 years, and all the moral chan e that takes place
on our earth, will be performed by tEe agency of man.
Thereffwe, many scoff and ridicule the idea, that Scrip-
HB moron: xxx.
ture tells usof the second coming of Christ, the manner,
object, and time. And many are willingly ignorant;
will not hear or read on this subject.
8. "Perilous times," as described in 2 Tim. iii. 1-7,
"This know, also, that, in the last days, perilous times
shall come; for men shall be lovers of their own selves,
covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to
parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection,
truce-breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, des is-
ers of those that are good, traitors, heady, hi h-minflled,
lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, gaving the
form of godliness, but denying the power thereof; fiom
such turn away. For of this sort are they which cree
into houses, and lead captive silly women laden with
sins, led away with divers lusts, ever
leaming, and never
able to come to the
knowledtge
of the truth.
What better description o domestic and public soci-
ety could we expect from the most close observer of
private characters, domestic circles, and public societies
of our times, than is here
given?
One would conclude,
had he found this in any o er book but the Bible, that
it was a modem writer, well acquainted with the human
hea.rt, and the generations now on the earth.
9. "
Departing from the faith, giving heed to seducing
spirits, and doctrines of devils, speaking lies in hypocri-
sy; having their conscience seared with a hot iron;
forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from
meats." Thus Paul tells Timothy, 1 Epistle, iv. l-3,
"Now the Spirit speaketh ex ressly, that in the latter
times some shall
depart
from the faith," &.c. This, we
must
acknowledge,
as been, and is now fulfilling. The
whole, almost, o the Christian world have
departed, or
changed their faith within fifteen years; seducing spirit!
are evidently at work ;
hypocrites
are
multiplying among
us; Roman Catholics, S kers, Pilgrims, Fanny
Wright,
Owen, and others forbid to marry. Roman Caxho ca
and many others amo us, are teaching to alltain fiom
meats and drinks, whildi God hath created to be received
witlithanksgiving of them which believe and know the
tu
10. False teachers, making merchandise of thegas-
UHRlST,S sncoim comma. 2%
pei. See 2 Peter ii. 1-3, "But there were false
prophets, also, among the people; even as there shall be
false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in
damnable heresies, even
denying the Lord that bought
them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction; and
many shall follow their pernicious ways, by reason of
whom the way oftruth shall be evil spoken of; and through
covetousness shall they, with feigned words, make
merchandise of you, whose judgment of a
long time
lingercth not, and their damnation slumbereth not."
The apostle then goes on to show, that, as it was in
the days of Noah and Lot, so it would be in the days
nf' these false teachers; one generation would not pass
off before the jud ment would overtake them, who
make merchandise 0? the gospel, and like Balaam, who
loved the wages of unrighteousness.
11. Jude gives us a sign, 4 to 19 verses, inclusive,
"How they told you there should be mockers in the
last time, who should walk after their own
ungodly
lusts; these be they who separate themselves, sensu ,
having not the Spirit." Some preachers deny the agen-
cy nf the Spirit in regeneration.
12. Christ gives a sign in Luke xxi. 25-28, "And
there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in
the stars; and, upon the earth, distress of nations, with
pcrplexity; the sea and the waves roarin ; men's hearts
failing them for fear, and for looking fgr those thin
which are
coming on the earth; for the powers of tg:
heavens shall be shaken; and then shall they see the
Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great
glory. And when these things begin to come to pass.
then look up, and lift up your heads, for your redemption
draweth nigh.
13. Christ gives another sign in Matt. xxiv. 23, 24,
"
Then, if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is
Christ, or there, believe it not; for there shall 'arise
false Christs and false prophets, and shall show great
signs and wonders, msomuch that, if it were
possible,
they shall deceive the ve elect." There can be no
doubt of
thgssign being furliilled.
,,
_
$4 moron xxx.
14. The ihliilment of the parable of the ten Virgil
-the midnight cry has gone forth from every quarter
of God's moral vineyard, "Beho1d, the bridegroom
cometh." The world has been, and are
now,"trimmi:5
their lamps;" witness the Bible translated into
languages; the Bible societies
sengg
Bibles to every
nation and family on the earth, the bath schools and
Bible classes studying its sacred precepts.
15. The scattering of the holy people and division
of sects, as prophesied of by Daniel, xii. 7, "And when
he shall have accomplished to scatter the power of the
holy people, all these things shall be finished." This
p;-ophecy
is now
fulfilling)
in a remarkable manner.
ot one sect, who profess oliness, but are divided and
subdivided into contending schisms, and that, too, with-
in twenty years.
16. The division of the political world, as
prophesied
of by John, Rev. xvi. 12--16, "And Isaw three unclean
spirits, like frogs, come out of the mouth of the dragon,
and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth
of the false prophet, for
they
are the spirits of devils,
working miracles, which go orth unto the kings of the
earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the
battle of the great day of God
Almighty"-and
19th
verse, "And the great city was divide into three parts,
and the cities of the nations fell." That these spirits
are political, is evident, from the fact that the come
out of the mouth of the dragon, (king~s,) andy beast,
(Catholic,) false prophet, (Mahometan,) and unclean,
signifying they are not holy things. This prophecy
is now accomplishing. What nation, within our knowl-
edge, is not already divided into three political parties?
None, which is in any way known to your speaker.
17. The church has fulfilled her 1260 years in the
wilderness, spoken of in Rev. xii. 6, 14, "And the
woman fled into the wilderness, where she hath a
place
prepared of God, that they should feed her there a
thousand two hundred and threescore days." These
days were evidently accomplished in 1798, since which
time the Protestant church has enjoyed privileges even
cnais~r's :noone comms. 295
in the city of nations, the Roman em ire; and, according
to Daniel, fbrty-(ive years will complete the whole plan
of redemption.
_
18. The two witnesses prove that the 1260 years are
ended; for it is evident that the Old and New Testa-
ment are not now hid nor kept from the common people,
but have arisen from their dead state, and are now per-
forming the oiiice God designed they should, conve
ing
light to the world. They are not clothed in sackcloth,
but, through the missionaries of the cross, and Bible
societie , are testifying to the world of Christ and his
second coming.
19.__ The civil power of anti-Christ is destroyed, and
the 1260 years, in which she was to rule over kings, and
tread the church under foot, was completed in 1798,
when the French army wok the Po a
prisoner, and
erected Italy into a republic; since wgihh time the
Pope
has exercised but little or no power over kings, or e
Protestant church, and she is evidently sinking by the
weight of her own corruptions.
20. It is very evident that the sixth trumpet has
sounded, and the 391 years will be completed in 1839,
when the seventh trumpet will begin to sound, and the
mystery of God will be finished, all that he hath de-
clared to his servants the prophets. If the fall of the
Eastern Empire at Constantinople was included in the
sixth trumpet, which all the principal commentators,
whom I have consulted, agree in, and that trumpet was
prepared to sound an hour, a day, a month, and a
year,
which makes,' according to the reckoning of time in
John's prophecy, 391 years and 15 days, then the sixth
trumpet is almost finished. The whole appearance
strengthens this exposition of the text; for the power
of' the Turks has diminished more rapidly within fifteen
ears, than any politician, however anxious he could
have been for the event, could have anticipated.
21. The opening of the sixth seal, revealed in the
6th and 7th chapters of Revelation, was opened in the
French revolution, and carries us through a
sealing time
unto the opening of the seventh seal, which ushers Ill
before the judgment seat oi' God. No one can deny
296 'neurons xix.
but that, since the revolution in France, a
sealing time
has passed; many have been born into the spiritua.
kingdom of Christ, inore than has ever been known, in
the same period of time, since the apostles' days. This
seal, then, is evidently opened, and is a
strong
evidence
that the book of life will soon be opened, an the dead
will be judged out of the things written in the books.
22. The sixth vial was poured out about the year
1822, when the Ottoman power began to be dried up.
This is an
important sign that ve are on the brink of
the judgment day. Rev. xvi. 12, "And the sixth angel
poured out his vial upon the
great
river Euphrates; and
the waters thereof were drie up, that the way of the
kings of the east might be prepared." This preparation
is for the last great battle, which will take place at the
pouring out of the seventh vial, in the year 1839 or 40
At the pouring out of the seventh vial, a voice from the
throne will pronounce the word, It is done. The king~
dome of the earth and governments of the world will
be carried away, and their
places
not found. Every
writer, of any note, will and ave applied this vial to
the Turkish govemment, and of course must acknowl-
edge that this vial is poured out, for the power of the
Turkish govemment is but little more than a name, and
the strength of the Ottoman power dried up.
23. Another evidence is Daniel's resurrection at the
end of the 1335 davs. This evidence is very plain and
evident, for Daniel says, xii. 11-13, "Ami from me
time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken away, and the
abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be
a thousand two hundred and ninety days." This cannot
be the Jewish sacrifice ; for ifso, then it must have been
iiilfilled about five hundred yearspast; and as no event
took place then which would warrant us in so under-
standing it,l can see no rational objection to understand
this daily sacrifice to mean Pagan rites and sacrifices,
which was the original beast of which the abomination
of desolation was only an image, and, as I have shown
in a former lecture, was to continue six hundred and
sixty-six years; and as Paul tells us, that when he was
taken out of the way, the man of sin would be revealed,
cnnrs-r's sncoim comme. 297
agreeing in
languag
with Daniel. I think the proof
is
stroggthat
from e taking away of Pagan worship,
A. D. 8, to the end ofthe Papal civil power, would be
1290 years, which would end in the year 1798, and thus
#agree with all of John's numbers in Revelation. And
then Daniel says, or the angelto Daniel, "
Blessed is he
that waiteth and cometh to the thousand three hundred
and iive and thirty days." Thus add l$5 to 508, will
-bring us down to the year A. D. 1843. "But go thou
thy way till the end be, for thou shalt rest and stand in
thy lot at the end of the days." And "Blessed and holy
is he that hath part in the first resurrection." Then
Daniel will stand in his lot, and .Tob will stand on the
earth in the latter day.
,
24t Danie1's vision of 2300 days
log.
I have in
some former lectures shown clearly that aniel's vision
concerning the four
great
monarchies which were or
were to come, include the whole history of the world,
so far as God saw fit to reveal it, down to the jud ent
day, and the coming ofthe Son of Man in the doug I
then showed that the question was asked, how long
.should be this vision. The answer was given-2300
days. I then proved that days were to be counted
years,
by the command of God, by the example of Jaco , and
by the fulfilment of a part of the vision. I then showed
you when this vision began by the angel Gabriel's own
declaration, who was commanded to instruct Daniel into
the vision. According to this instruction I showed you
that 490 years were accomplished of this vision, to a day,
at the crucifixion of Christ, both events happening on the
12th day of the first month, 490 years apart. And then
I inquired, that if 490
'years
of 2300 was fulfilled when
our Savior was cruci ed, how much of the vision re-
mained aher his death. I answered, 1810 years. I
then inquired, what year after his birth that would be;
and the answer was, in the
'year
1843. I then begged
the privilege, and do now, or any person to show me
any failure of proof on this point, or where, possibly, ac-
cording to Scripture, there may be a failure in the cal-
culation I have made on this vision. I have not yet,
by
seventeen years study, been able to discover when
:night fhil. -
28 nzcruu xn.
Lastly. Another signofthe last thy you will ill
given by Paul, 1 Thess. v. 2, 3,
"
For yourselves know
perfectly, that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief
in the night. For when they shall say, Peace and
safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as
travail upon a woman with child; and they dmll not
escape." Compare 2 Pet. ii. 17-2.
The doctrine of peace and safety, and that there is
no punishment in the future state, had but few or no
advocates until very recently. I am not certain but
the first preacher of this soul-destroying doctrine is now
living; and they now boast of their multitud of fol-
lowers and advocates. There have been, in past ages,|
few who preached the doctrine of the restoration of all
men, after a. suitable punishment in hell; but to modem
Universalist; belongs the invention of preaching "
peace
and safety when sudden destruction cometh." If this
sign is not fulfilled in the preachers of this order at this
time, I ask, How can it be fulfilled? and what must the
doctrine of those be who preach "peace and safety"?
Surely, no human being can invent a doctrine so full of
(promised,-ll
"
peace and safety" to the wicked as this;
and no o er denomination on our globe ever have op
posed the doctrine of the coming of Christ, the judg-
ment day, and future punishments, but the modem Uni-
versalists; and if this is the doctrine that Paul had
reference to in our text, as, I am fully satisfied, every
candid and religious mind must and will allow, then
we may reasonabl suppose "sudden destruction cometh
upon them, and they shall not escape."
Therefore, my dear reader, I shall now, with a. few
closing remarks, leave you to your own reflections.
The Jews had twenty-one signs in the Scriptures given
them of the first coming and person of Jesus Christ; yet
many rejected him as an impostor. You say, if
dyou
had
lived in that day, you would have believed; an you in
vour hearts condemn them as a hardened race of unbe-
lievcrs ; and notwithstanding their great pretence to piety,
you say they were justly denounced by our Savior as a
generation
of vipcrs and a band of
hypocrites. But, my
oarers, be careful your own hearts o not condemn you
CHRISIJB szcoun comms. 299
for your unbelief in the signs which the prophets, Christ,
and the apostles have given you as tokens of his second
coming and the judgment day. [have brought from the
word of God twenty-five signs of his second coming, end
of the world, and judgment day, and all a
parently fulfil-
led within the age of many present., or
fuliiilling now be-
fore your eyes. And do you believe? Many of ou
profess to be pious ; many of you say, Lord, Lord! hut
do you believe his word? Are you willin to risk your
life, your character, your all, on his worf? or are you
fearful and unbelieving? Now is the time to try men's
souls. Now, if you wish to be sure, examine closely, and
see whether your faith will stand in the day of trial which
is coming; yes, has already come, in a thousand ways, to
draw you from the gospel of Christ to another new gos-
pel, which is not the
gospel of God. "
Can ye not dis-
cern the signs of the times ?" Let me give you one rule
by which you may know a false doctrine. They may
have many good things in their creeds, they may be very
lausible in their arguments, and after all deceive you.
gut examine them closely, and you will find they will
deny, ridicule, or try to do away some prominent doctrine
of the Bible, such as the divinity of Christ, his second
coming, office of the Holy Spirit, etiemal punishnnznt,
doctrine of grace, election, conviction for sin, regene-
ration, repentance, or faith. And when you hear or see
them make light or scoff at any
thing of this kind in the
word of God,
go
not after them, nor id them God speed.
"
Can ye not iscem the signs of the times ? "
And to you, impenitent friend, God has at all times
given you warning of his approaching judgments. If
you repent, believe his word, and break oif
your sins by
righteousness, he is faithful and just to forgive you your
sins. Why not take warning by the past? Is there no
example for you ? Look at the antediluvian world,
Sodom and Gomorrah, Nineveh, Babylon, Jerusalem, and
the once enlightened Asia, now worse than in heathen-
ish darkness. Will God punish nations, and not indi-
viduals? This cannot be, for nations are composed of
individuals; and God is just, for he hath appointed a
day in which he will judge the world in righteousness.
300 r.:c1-nn: xrx.
"Can ye not discern the signs of the times?" Will
God's word fail of
beigiaccomplished? Can you show
a single instance? y not listen, then, to the warn-
ings and admonitions, to the calls and invitations, to the
examples and prece ts contained therein ? °'
Can ye not
discem the signs of?the times ?" Will God cut off the
unbelieving Pharisee for not discerning the signs of
the times, and let you, with twofold more light, go free ?
No: how can ye escape, if you neglect this great salva-
tian? Watch, then, "the signs of the times." I say,
atch.
NOTE.
The author wishes to state that Lecture VIII. in this
work was written twelve years since; and that the suthor~
ities he then consulted fixed the rise of the Turkish empire
at 1298. He is now satisfied, by the examination of other
authorities on the subject, that the foundation of that em-
pire was lsid in 1299. Hence the things mentioned in
Lecture VII. (p. 109,) relative to persecutions, &c., and to
the coming of the third woe,a.s mentioned in Lecture Xlll.
(p. 202,) which he supposed would take place in 18%, sc-
eording to the first computation, will not be realized until
the year 1840.
'
S
