{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n17_did_our_culture_begin_in_atlantis.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N17 Did Our Culture Begin In Atlantis","mylang":"de"}
“Did Our Culture
Begin in Atlantis?”
BEING TH E SEVENTEENTH OF
The Galahad Lectures
HE GALAHAD LECTURES constitute agreat
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric History of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as aplanet, up through theEdenic
period when the first forms of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantean and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer of 1932 and have beenrecorded
andpreserved in this form for students o f the Foundation Fel­
lowship. C F^e Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of Metaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in Mortality and for accurate
knowledge of the soul's enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth.
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUEDEVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BYPELLEY
PUBLISHERS OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA ±* POST OFFICE BOX 2630
SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE LIBERATION
SCRIPTS ijr ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR ±* ONE
HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE IN-
STRUCTION TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY 1?
lipid Our Culture Begin in Atlantis?”
THE SEVENTEENTH LECTURE
UR material civilization has been defined as
“the result of a series of inventions and dis­
coveries whereby man improves his condi­
tion and controls the forces of nature for his
own advantage.’*
Savage man is a pitiable creature. As Mena-
boshu says in the Chippewa legends, he is
pursued by a perpetual hunger, he is exposed
unprotected to the blasts of winter and the
heat of summer. A great terror sits upon
his soul, for every manifestation of nature—
thestorm, the wind, the thunder, the lightning, the cold, the heat—
allare threatening and dangerous demons. The seasons bring him
neither seed-time nor harvest. Pinched with hunger, appeasing in
partthe everlasting craving of his stomach with seeds, berries and
creepingthings, he sees the animals of the forest dash by him and he
hasnomeans to arrest their flight. He is powerless and miserable in
themidst of plenty. Every step toward civilization is a step of corn-
questover nature.
Theinvention of the bow and arrow was, in its time, a far greater
strideforward for the human race than the steam engine or the tele­
graph. Thesavage could now reach his game. His insatiable hunger
couldbesatisfied. The very eagle, “towering in its pride of place,”
wasnot beyond the reach of this new and wonderful weapon. The
discoveryof fire and the art of cooking were another immense step
forward. The savage, having nothing but wooden vessels in which
tocook, covered the wood with clay, and the clay hardened in the
3
V * * JAN 3i ’4J
fire. The savage gradually learned that he could dispense with the
wood, and thus pottery was invented. Then, if we are to believethe
Chippewa legends, someone found on the shores of Lake Superior,
fragments of the pure copper of that region and beat them into shape,
and the art of metallurgy was begun in America. Iron was firstworked
in the same way by shaping meteoric iron into spearheads.
But, as Ignatius Donnelly warns us, it must not be supposed thatthese
inventions followed one another in rapid succession. Thousands and
perhaps tens of thousands of years intervened between each step.
Many savage races have not, to this day, achieved some of thesesteps.
Prof. Richard Owen says, “unprepossessed and sober experience
teaches that arts, language, literature, are of slow growth, the results
of gradual development.”
We of the twentieth century, enjoying our motorcars, our electric
turbines, our telephones, our radios, our airplanes, our moving pic­
tures, are altogether too prone to ignore this great fundamental. We
imagine that these inventions grew out of one another by some in­
exorable process, but that back at the beginning of things theremust
have been some common and basic culture which all men enjoyedas
by gift from the Almighty. Even Adam himself must have hada
roof of some kind over his head, a knife and a stewpan.
Nearly sixty years have passed since Ignatius Donnelly sought to
prove by his masterly work on Atlantis, that nearly all the arts essen­
tial to civilization which we possess, date back to the time of Atlantis,
certainly to that ancient civilization which we call the Egyptian but
which was coeval with and an outgrowth of Atlantis. 1shall refer
constantly to Donnelly in these next four lectures, because nothing
has appeared before or since Donnelly’s time that begins to compare
with this great scholar’s reconstruction of that submerged continent
and its peoples to whom we of this twentieth century owe so much.
4
SDonnelly says, in six thousand years the world made no
advance in the civilization which it received from At­
lantis. Phoenicia, Egypt, Chaldea, India, Greece, and
Rome, passed the torch of civilization from one to the
other. But in all that lapse of time they added nothing
to the arts which existed at the earliest period of Egyp­
tianhistory. In architecture, sculpture, painting, engraving, mining,
metallurgy, navigation, pottery, glassware, the construction of canals,
roadsandaqueducts, the arts of Phoenicia and Egypt extended, with­
outmaterial change or improvement, to a period but two or three
hundredyears ago. The present age has entered upon a new era.
jthasadded a series of wonderful inventions to the Atlantean list,
ithassubjugated steam and electricity to the uses of man. And its
workhasbutcommenced. It will continue until it lifts man to a plane
asmuchhigher than the present, as the present is above the barbaric
condition; and in the future it will be said that between the birth of
civilization in Atlantis, and the new civilization, there stretches a
periodofmany thousands of years, during which mankind did not in­
ventbutsimply perpetuated.
Herodotustells us that according to the information he received from
theEgyptian priests, their written history dated back 11,340 years
beforehisera, or nearly 14,000 years prior to our time. They intro­
ducedhiminto a spacious temple and showed him the statues of 341
highpriestswho had in turn succeeded one another. And yet the age
ofColumbus possessed no arts except that of printing—which was
ancientinChina—not known to the Egyptians, and the civilization of
Egyptatitsfirst appearance was of a higher order than at any subse­
quentperiod of its history, thus testifying that it drew its greatness
fromafountainhigher than itself. It was in its early days that Egypt
worshipedthe one God. In the later ages this simple and sublime be­
liefwas buried under the corruptions of polytheism. The greatest
pyramidswerebuilt by the Fourth Dynasty, and so universal was edu­
cationatthat time among the people that the stones with which they
worked,retainto this day the writing of the workmen.
Thefirstkingwas Menes. “At the epoch of Menes," says Winchell,
"theEgyptians were already a civilized and numerous people.
M
anethotells us that Athotis, the son of the first king Menes, built
thepalaceat Memphis, that he was a physician and wrote anatomical
books. All these statements imply that even at this early period the
Egyptianswere in a high state of civilization. In the time of Menes
5
the E g yp tian s had long been architects, sculptors, painters, mytholo
gists, and theologians.”
Professor Richard O w en says, “ E g yp t is recorded to have been a
civilized and governed com m unity before the time of Menes. The
p astoral com m unity of a group of nomad families, as portrayed inthe
Pentateuch, m ay be adm itted as an early step in civilization. Bat
how far in ad van ce of this age is a nation administered by a kingly
governm ent, consisting of grades of society, with divisions of labor,
of which one kind assigned to the priesthood was to record and chroo-
icle the n am es and d yn asties of the kings, the duration and chief
events of their reigns!”
Exnest Renan points out that “Egypt at the beginning appears ma­
tu re, old, and entirely without mythical and heroic ages, as if the
country had never known youth. Its civilization has no infancy, and
its art no archaic period- T h e civilization of the Old Monarchy (hd
not begin w ith infancy. It was already mature.”
T he im plication of all this cultural evidence, if we had no other,
geologically or philologically, conveys to the well-read person that
the civilization thus attested, m ust have begun in Atlantis, and that
the Egyptian people were unable to maintain it at the high standard
at which they had received it, as depicted in the pages of Plato. What
king of A ssyria, as Prof. Donnelly well asks, or of Greece, or Rome,
or even of the modern nations, has ever devoted himself to the study
of m edicine and the writing of medical books for the benefit of man­
kind? Their m ission has been to kill, not to heal the people. Yet
here, at the very dawn of Mediterranean history, we find the son of
the first king of Egypt recorded “as a physician, and as having left
anatom ical books.”
It seem s to be incontestable that in som e region of the earth primitive
m ankind m ust have existed and developed during vast spaces of time,
and under the m ost favorable conditions, to create, invent and dis­
cover those arts and things that constitute civilization.
That illustrious Frenchman H. A . Taine, in his History of English
Literature, sees the unity of the Indo-European races manifest in their
languages, literatures and philosophies, and argues that these preemi­
nent treats “are the great marks of an original model,” and that when
w e m eet with them “fifteen, twenty, thirty centuries before
our era, in an Aryan, an Egyptian, a Chinese, they represent
the work of a great m any ages, perhaps of several myriads
of centuries. Such is the source of these master faculties from which
6
.{orical events take their rise, and one sees that if it be powerful,
fjjbcsuse this is no simple spring, but a kind of lake, a deep, wide
^rvoir, wherein other springs have, for a multitude of centuries,
^charged their several streams.” In other words, the capacity of
j*Egyptian, Aryan, Chaldean, Chinese, Saxon and Celt, to main-
pjncivilization, is simply the result of civilized training during
•‘myriadsof centuries" in some original home of the race.
IVILIZATION is not communicable to all. Many savage
tribes are incapable of it. There are two great divisions
of mankind, the civilized and the savage, and, as is in­
contestably shown, every civilized race in the world has
had something of civilization from the earliest ages. As
“all roads lead to Rome," so all the converging lines of
civilization lead to Atlantis, and perhaps before Atlantis.
Theabyss between civilized and savage man is simply incalculable.
Itrepresentsnot alone a difference in arts and methods of life, but in
themental constitution, the instincts, the predispositions of the soul.
Thechildof the civilized races in his sports manufactures water­
w
heels,wagons, and houses of cobs. The savage boy amuses himself
w
ithbowsand arrows. The one belongs to a building and creating
race;theother to wild hunting stock. The abyss between savagery
andcivilizationhas never been passed by any nation through its own
originalforceorwithout external influences during the historic period.
Thosethatwere savage tribes at the dawn of history are savages still.
Barbarianslaves may have been taught something of the arts of their
m
asters, and conquered races have shared some of the advantages
possessedby their conquerors, but we shall seek in vain for any ex­
am
pleofasavage people’s developing civilization of or among them­
selves. jy iy
Ifw
emaybe reminded here of the Gauls, Goths and Britons, it may
hestatedthat these were not savages. They possessed written lan­
guages,poetry, oratory and history; they were controlled by religious
ideas;theybelieved in God and the immortality of the soul and in
rew
ardandpunishment after death. Wherever the Romans came in
contactwiththeGauls, or Britons, or German tribes, they found them
arm
edwithweapons of iron. The Scots, according to Tacitus, used
chariotsand iron swords in the battle of the Grampians. The Celts
ofGaul are stated by Diodorus Siculus to have used iron-headed
spearsandcoatsof mail. And the Gauls who encountered the Roman
7
arms in B. C. 222 were armed with soft iron swords, as well as at the
time Caesar conquered their country. Among the Gauls, men would
lend money to be repaid in the next life, showing a belief in periodic
earthly return, the great law of earthly compensation; and we need
not add that no Christian people has yet attained to that sublimeheight
of faith. They cultivated the ground, built houses and walled towns,
wove cloth and employed wheeled vehicles. They possessed nearly
all the cereals and domestic animals known to us today, and they
wrought in iron, bronze, and steel. The Gauls had even invented a
machine on wheels to cut their grain, thus anticipating our mowers
and reapers by two thousand years.
The difference between the civilization of the Romans under Julius
Caesar and the Gauls under Vercingetorix, was a difference in degree
and not in kind. The Roman civilization was simply a development
and perfection of the civilization possessed by all the European popu­
lations. It was drawn from the common foundation of Atlantis!
|F WE find on both sides of the Atlantic precisely the
same arts, sciences, religious beliefs, habits, customs,
and traditions, it is absurd to say that the peoples of
the two continents arrived separately, by precisely the
same steps, at precisely the same ends. When we con­
sider the resemblance of the civilizations of the Medi­
terranean nations to one another, no man is silly enough to pretend
that Rome, Greece, Egypt, Assyria, Phoenicia, each spontaneously
and separately invented the arts, sciences, habits and opinions inwhich
they agreed; but we proceed to trace out the thread of descent or
connection from one to the other.
Why should a rule of interpretation prevail, as between the two sides
of the Atlantic, different from that which prevails or holds goodasto
the two sides of the Mediterranean Sea? If, in the one case, similarity
of origin has unquestionably produced similarity of arts, customs and
condition, why, in the other, should not similarity of arts, customsand
condition prove similarity of origin?
Is there any instance in the world, of two peoples, without knowledge
of or intercourse with each other, happening upon the same invention,
whether that invention be an arrowhead or a steam engine? Ifalapse
of at least six thousand years occurred before man began anew the
work of invention and took up the thread of thought where Atlantis
dropped it, what probability is there of three or four separate na-
8
*Uadvancing at the same speed to precisely the same arts and
The proposition is untenable.
ftgSSSSi EMEETmanypeople who think that Plato created the
idea of a kingdom of Atlantis out of his own imagina-
Y/3 tion. I remember that when I first heard of Atlantis
MmAjRa in this present life I found something haunting, some-
| thing vaguely intriguing, about it. 1recall finding a fic-
lijlYiiwi jjon story concerning it in my Sunday School library
wfifnIwasbut eleven or twelve years old, and how it attracted my
interest instantly. The Sunday supplement writers and editors of
theNationknowthe value of playing on those aged racial memories.
Theeditorswho put together the material which you find in current
magazinesinstinctively know the value of anything appertaining to
astronomy, archaeology, or that which has existed culturally only to
belost. Theinterestwhich was aroused by the opening of King Tut's
tom
bwentdeepinto the spiritual reservoirs of all peoples. We have
aninstinctiveurge from boyhood or girlhood for that which is old or
legendary. Why?
Ibelieveitisthe same instinctive urge that makes us have a strange
sentimentalpropensity from time to time for the scenes and days of
childhood.Weliketorecall that which we have lived through and been
apartof. So do we like, racially, to recall that which we have lived
throughandbeen apart of. We are interested in those old kingdoms
and those old civilizations, because once upon a time we lived in
themorunderthem! Vaguely we are but refreshing racial memories
w
henweconcern ourselves with them.
Itmakesnodifference what the color of a man’s skin may be in the
present, this urge is universal in all mankind, because all men have
hed beforein the ages that have perished. We have seen how the
variousgroupings of mankind about the earth brought racial antago­
nism
s.But from the very start of the composition of Atlantis itself,
w
efindallocatedand pictorially represented, narrated in all legends,
allthepresentgreat divisions of humankind. The races are all in the
worldlypicture, black, yellow, red, and white. It is already debatable
intheminds of many ethnologists whether the black man originated
inAfrica; there is no record to show that he is an aborigine of the
DarkContinent. There is plenty of record to indicate that he was
carriedthere from the known world, far back in the times that we
carelessly term prehistoric. And there are records on many of the
9
temples of Central America, of Negroes whose physiognomy is^
mistakable. Likewise from the same records we recognize thephysiog.
nomies of the Chinese and the Hebrew.
Pausing a moment on this, Negroes have never been a sea-goingpeo.
pie, and their existence among the aborigines of Central America
proves one of two things: either the existence of a land connectionbe.
tween America and Africa, via Atlantis, or commercial relationsbe.
tween America and Africa via the ships of the Atlanteans or ofsome
other civilized race whereby Negroes were transported to the various
countries as slaves at a very remote period.
There is a most interesting book of the Quichuas, the people ofCen­
tral and South America, the Popul Vuh, which speaks of thefirstmen
“in the region of the rising sun. All seem to have spoken onelan­
guage and to have lived in great peace, black men and whitetogether."
We hear of no civilization in the Mediterranean region as coming
from the East; we hear of them all as coming from the West. What
west? What land could have been meant? We didhave aLemurian
migration that settled in Atlantis. We likewise had a Lemurianm
i­
gration that settled in Abyssinia. But it never got down into lower
Africa. As we follow the migration in Asia of the present asex­
pressed by stories of the common people, they all report, Wecame
from the West,” just as the common people of Central and South
America speak vaguely of a motherland in the west. But whereare
those lands today in which “black men and white lived togetherin
great peace”?
I mention these points about the races as a factor in the reconstruc­
tion of those ancient civilizations. All the races that composeciviliza­
tion today, were likewise in existence then. There was no essential
division of the races into sharply confined areas.
10
HERE is another interesting point to be noted in recon­
structing Atlantis, in the names of certain cities common
to both the old world and the new. There was no de­
parture from the practice of naming cities after those in
the motherland, exactly as we have cities named today.
We have in this so-called New World such names of
u0icipalities as New York, New Haven, New London. Wherever
-ouhavea “New” it postulates that there must have been an “Old.**
couldalmost make a list of the cities of England from the names
0fcitiesandhamlets on this side of the Atlantic. Applying this prac-
ijcetoAtlantis, we find in the Mediterranean basin, on the west coast
0[AsiaMinor, at least five cities that have counterparts in the nomen­
clatureof Central America. In Armenia we find Choi and Colua; in
Central America we find Chol-ula and Colua-can. In Armenia we
meetwithZuivana; in Central America, Zuivan. In Armenia there is
Cholima; in Central America, Colima. In Armenia Zalissa; in Cen­
tralAmerica, Zalisco.
Canthissimilarity in names of cities be coincidence? Is it not fairly
acceptablelogic that cities on both sides of the Atlantic must each in
turnhave been named after cities in the great Atlantean kingdom?
W
hatmoreoverwhelming comparison of names do we have in all the
oldornewcountries than that of the great god Pan and Maia in the
Greek,andPanama on the American isthmus?
Thoseofyou who are familiar with Greek mythology will remember
thatthebarbarians alluded to by Homer and Thucydides were a race
ofancientnavigators and pirates called Cares, or Carians, who occu­
piedtheisles of Greece before the Pelasgi. The word is a common
termappliedto the earliest settlers of South and Central America, as
Churchwardhas shown us.
“Huthe Mighty” is found in Hu-nap-hu, the hero-god of the
SouthAmericanQuichuas; and the god of the Welsh druids, Hu-napu
andHu-hu-nap-hu, are semidivine heroes of the Quichaus. How
doesthishappen, three thousand miles apart, over untold ages? How,
exceptthatboth were colonial inheritances of the Atlanteans?
11
lEN we come to the question of color of other racej
spread over the face of the globe, we proceed to unearth
other astounding evidences of an earthly society that
must have had an origin in a great nation not muchdif­
ferent from the United States of the present.
We said that Adam of the scriptures got his name from I
the fact that he represented the first Red Race, and that the word
means “red” in all the ancient languages. The Arabs and Egyptians
considered mankind as comprising two races, the one red or ruddy,
the other black, and classed themselves among the red men. Not
only was Adam, or A-dom, the Red Man, but red from the firsthas
been a sacred color. The gods of the ancients were always portrayed
in red. The Wisdom of Solomon refers to this custom: “The car­
penter carved it elegantly, and formed it by the skill of his under­
standing, and fashioned it to the shape of a man, or made it likevile
beast, laying it over with Vermillion, and with paint, coloring itred.”
Universally the Indians paint their idols red. The very name ofthe
Phoenicians signifies red.
Ancient Egyptians recognized four races, they themselves being the
Rot or red men. The yellow they called Namu, which includedthe
Asiatic races. The black men were called Nahsu, and the whiteTam-
hu. In the same way we find that the ancient Aryan writings divided
mankind into four races, white, red, yellow, and black, who settled
along the great Mediterranean corridor. The four castes of India
were founded upon these distinctions in color. The word for color
in Sanskrit, Varna, means “caste.” The great mystery of the caste
system in the East was the keeping of the racial bloodstreams pure.
The red men, according to the Mahabharata, were the Kshatriyas, the
warrior caste, who were afterwards engaged in a fierce contest with
the whites, the Brahmans, and were nearly exterminated. Itwasfrom
their stock that Buddha was born.
The whites seem to have been at the top in that ancient day, asthey
are at the top at present in all world systems. Do you get the immu­
table principle of the spectrum again, all things being contained in
white, the Brahmans being the priestly class.
In social and economic structure, that ancient civilization of Atlantis
was therefore essentially like our own, because we are forced tore­
mind ourselves that cultures and civilizations, while influencedbyfea­
tures of terrain and by heavenly bodies, are essentially spiritual
achievements. As individual men and women go through eachstageof
12
.r theygather that which each has to bestow upon their characters.
^ ^atcataclysm comes along and seems to wipe out all vestiges of
jjt theyhave gained in an organized, material way. But it cannot
•p*outthatculture which has become a part of their spiritual charac­
ters Theyproceed to build a little higher from the reservoir of spirit-
ethics in their eternal memories.
CCASIONALLY it occurs to men and women to ask
themselves from whence comes the mysterious thing in
cultural life called Leadership. All down the ages man­
kind has had it. And yet it is truly a social phenom­
enon. Why should one person or one class of persons,
or one caste or one race, take and hold ascendancy over
theothers? When we give the enigma the attention it merits, we
realizethat Leadership is all a matter of gradation of wisdom. This
atfirstmay seem banal. It is actually profound. One man knows
m
orethananother man knows, or he assumes to know more. Those
w
hoknowless either borrow vicariously from those of greater wis­
dombysubmitting themselves not only to the dictates of logic which
thewiser may possess, but they are willing to fall in behind such a
w
iseman and do as he suggests or dictates physically, politically or
socially, thereby utilizing for themselves the wisdom epitomized by
him
,whichthey lack. Social organization, therefore, is nothing but
anexpression of various gradations of wisdom, and at the top is the
m
an,ormen, who possess the greatest fund of knowledge about the
universeinwhich men find themselves dwelling.
Lookingbackin our cultural inheritance to great Atlantis of the very
oldendays,we are told that in the beginnings of things on this planet
tiemenwho knew most were the Avatar-Leaders. They were not,
associologistssuppose, merely common men who had learned to seize
opportunities for advancement of which the more stupid had not
availedthemselves. This could not have happened, for in the begin­
ningallwere more or less subject to the same conditions of life, and
w
herewould their superior knowledge have come from? We touch
closetothe metaphysical when we consider the social and political
structuresof those ancient times.
Originallywefind the leaders of the peoples of the earth called Seers,
orthosewhosaw. They were a class of men who lived in See Houses,
onelevatedportions of land, sometimes mountains, sometimes archi­
tecturalelevations in the hearts of cities. The term has come down
13
t0 iU^Jn mo^ern ^ayf in describing the abode of bishops of the Epwco-
pal Church. The bishop is an occupant of a See House. Primarily
these ancient leaders studied or “saw" the heavens. They were the
world’s first astronomers, as the ancient skies cleared and heavenly
bodies came into view. No man or caste of men can withdraw from
the multitude and give attention to the vastness of celestial space,
without gaining greater powers than those whose vision is confined
to the materialistic things of earth. Great avatars have come intoa
consciousness of what they have to give to the world, in the lonely
waste places, not in marts of trade or political councils.
Admitting for the moment that the leaders who first took charge of
the Atlanteans and Lemurians were of a superior order and had
undoubtedly gained to their knowledge and wisdom on other planets
or in other planetary systems, it makes no difference whether they
got their knowledge from far planes of existence or from senses gal­
vanized above those who slept in humble abodes beneath those an­
cient See Houses. Our present-day political systems, our evil social
machinery, are but debauched symbols and shadow structures of
something that once was very beautiful. .Today when we think of
the word Priesthood, because of the abominable prostitution of the
priestly power in the hands of petty men considering God in the
anthropomorphic concept, we do not think of a caste of princely
avatars. All that is passed. It was only the original pattern whichwe
had exhibited for us in its purity, that became a factor in our racial
culture. We think of priestcraft and priest-graft today and say God
deliver us!" because priests have now lost their ancient knowledge,or
are only the husks of that great caste of true leaders that once abode
in the world’s See Houses, or in its lonely places. They are no longer
avatars, because avatars ,no longer incarnate in the priestly classes.
When they come into flesh now they exert their leadership in other
characters, by incarnating in common ranks and strata of society, to
rise up and exhibit themselves in their true identities when there is
artistic, social or political achievement to be accomplished for the
good of the race as a whole.
We are told that Atlantis was commonly ruled or presided overby
twelve great avatar-priests of extraordinary culture and ethical at­
tainment. When I say this, let me draw you a modern analogy.
Think of the state of society that would be in existence on this earth
if it were ruled by a council of twelve avatars, each one of whom
had the temperamental maturity, the spiritual adulthood, of Jesusthe
14
Otfistf We would not think then of the priestly caste with shivers.
It isbecausewe have learned that mere mortal men have debased such
divinecalling of leadership into ritualistic formulae, with all their at"
tendantevils of greed and corruption, that we pray the Almighty not
toinflicta priestly government on us again.
OW looking back over history, we find that all peoples
have had a peculiar custom of considering those who
have been of prominence or notoriety in past years or
past ages, as having been affiliated with Deity. The
law and order exhibited in the operations of the heaven­
ly bodies postulated a single ruling mind. From ob­
servationof this law and order the idea of the One God was apparent­
lyarrivedat. It was but a logical reaction from this observation, for
mentoattribute divine powers to those who stood head and shoulders
abovethe herd in their cultural attainments. And in the exact ratio
thattimepassed, after the removal of such supernal mentalities from
theearthly scene, human exaggeration concerning their attainments
madethem objects of worship.
Thisisa peculiarity of human nature by no means confined to the
past. A thousand or five thousand years from today, scientists un­
coveringtheremnants of our present civilization and translating docu­
ments containing lavish references to the Mid-Victorian Era, will
doubtlessassert with great profundity and solemnity that just before
theturn of the twentieth century, Anglo-Saxon peoples were wor­
shipersof the great Goddess Victoria.
Indelvingback into the records and folklore of ancient peoples, even
aslateas the Roman, the Greek, the Babylonian, the Egyptian, and
inameasure the Scandinavian, we find that uniformly the gods and
goddesses who were objects of veneration and beseechment were nev­
erconsideredas actual creators of heaven and earth. They were ex­
aggeratedprototypes of quite earthly men and women, doing earthly
things, playing favorites, defending a particular people, having trou­
blewith their wives and relatives. The male gods were frequently
marriedtoturbulent, shrewish women, or bickered with their children,
oneofthem, Zeus, even going so far as to hurl one of his offspring
outofawindow, breaking his back.
Itstandsto reason that this type of deity in folklore could have little
incommon with the one God-Monarch who fashioned the earth and
setthecelestial bodies in the heavens. To search for a true solution
15
of the mystery, we have to go back, far back, behind accredited ori­
gins, for these myths so popular among the peoples of the Mediter­
ranean basin. And knowing the propensity of humankind to deify
outstanding individuals as time passes and their talents or achieve­
ments are exaggerated in much telling, we have to proceed on the
hypothesis that these ancient gods and goddesses must have been very
ancient earthly potentates. Looking for evidence to substantiate such
hypothesis, we do come upon some perturbing facts.
I
UR so-called culture of today is built upon two corner­
stones : first, materialistic achievement; second, spiritual
ennoblement growing out of universally accepted as­
sumptions in regard to the character and behavior ofthe
Almighty Potentate. It goes without saying that weare
the inheritors of an extraordinarily materialistic civiliza­
tion. W e have had domesticated animals passed on to us, we have
had agricultural processes perfected and bequeathed to us over untold
generations, until it is difficult to conceive of a state of world society
in which they were not known and practiced. We are the recipients
of a vast fund of lore concerning architecture and engineering. We
have had the basic facts about metallurgy handed us out of ages that
we consider archaic. Sculpture, painting, engraving, and poetry, had
reached such a highly developed state in the beginnings of recorded
history that we solemnly refer to them as classics, using them as sub­
strata on which to erect any advances in these arts in the present day.
In public works we have the old worlds filled with ruins that attestto
marvels of human attainments. In navigation, manufactures, music,
weapons, we seem generation after generation to be repeating orredis­
covering that which was once universal property of the nations. Only
religions or the concepts of humanity regarding the Creator, seemto
have undergone any radical alterations within the period of recorded
history.
In studying the true origin of our culture, therefore, suppose thatwe
look into these item s in the order named. Before taking up the genesis
of spirituality as the world at present knows and practices it, suppose
w e glance at these materialistic achievements of the Atlanteans and
observe how little w e of these later days have evolved for ourselves.
To determ ine the existence of these things in Atlantis, we must of
course use the method I have heretofore laid down. If we find anin­
vention or a social custom identical on both sides of the Atlantic, we
16
.tribute its common source to some central locality from which
musta j QUt jn colonial fashion into the preserved localities where
jt remain to the present day. Identicalevolutions on separate
partsofthe planet over the same periods of time are untenable, as we
haveseen. ^
Ofthe domesticated animals and agricultural achievements, we have
spokenina previous lecture. If we find the camel in Africa and Kan­
sas, it must have been a common beast of burden in Atlantis. If we
find the bison in France and Wyoming, it must have been a well-
knownbeast on the Atlantean plains. If we find the horse in Arabia,
and yet find its forebears no bigger than a fox in Montana, we are
forced to conclude that it must have been evolved as a draft animal
between the Straits of Gibraltar and Cape Hatteras. And the same
thing applies to the fruits and grains. Especially bear in mind what
welearned in our last lecture about the seedless banana.
Whenwe come to architecture, however, we enter an entrancing and
fecund field of exploration and overwhelming evidence that the
science of building had its root and start upon a continent that is no
longer in existence. Plato tells us that the Atlanteans possessed
architecture, that they built walls, temples and palaces. We need
notadd that this art was found in Egypt, perfected to a degree that is
nowthe despair of modern construction engineers. All the civilized
countries of Europe, as well as Peru, Mexico and Central America,
followed principles of erection and design that must have had a com­
mon origin.
The obelisks of Egypt, covered with strange picture symbols as they
are, are duplicated by the round columns of Central America, and
both are supposed to have originated in phallic worship, or the wor­
ship of the male procreational equipment. This adulation of the
principle of human fertility is found even in parts of the Orient at the
present time, notably in Cambodia and Burma. The usual symbol of
thephallus, according to both Squier and Bancroft, was an erect stone,
often in its rough state, though sometimes sculptured. The wor­
ship of Priapus was found in Asia, Egypt, along the European shore
of the Mediterranean, and in the forests of Central America.
The mounds of Europe and Asia were made in the same way and for
the same purposes as those of America. Herodotus describes the
burial of a Scythian king: “After this they set to work to raise a
vast mound over the grave, all of them vying with each other and
seeking to make it as tall as possible.” Foster in his Prehistoric Races
says: 4‘It must be confessed that these Scythian burial rites havea
strong resemblance to those of the American Mound Builders. Homer
describes the erection of a great symmetrical mound over Hector,also
over Achilles. Alexander the Great raised a huge mound overhit
friend Hephaestion at a cost over one million dollars.
The grave-cists made of stone in the American mounds are exactly
like the stone chests or kistvaen for the dead, found in the British
mounds. Tumuli have been found in Yorkshire inclosing wooden
coffins, precisely as in the mounds of the Mississippi Valley. The
articles associated with the dead are the same on both continental
arms, trinkets, food, clothes, and funeral urns. How can this possi­
bly be coincidence?
In both the Mississippi Valley and among the Chaldeans, vaseswere
constructed around the bones, the neck of the vase being toosmallto
permit the extraction of the skull. Today in our modern cemeteries
we construct mausoleums, permanent resting houses for cadavers
which we know to be naught but disintegrating chemical compositions
that in a few years will be dust. We say we thus show respector
loving solicitude for the dead, knowing all the time that thebodythus
discarded is but the cocoon from which the sentient spirit hasemerged
into another form of Being. Our thousands of square milesofceme­
teries are today living symbols of an era when mankind expectedthe
literal dead body to come to life again at some future dateandrequire
the body so carefully preserved. Yet scarcely one intelligent person
in a million truly believes in this actually happening. It isbutpaying
tribute to a racial memory, the heritage from a bygone civilization. A
continually advancing civilization will cremate the bodies ofthedead
as something worthless, not unlike so much discarded rubbish.
18
[GAIN referring to engineering achievements, the pyra­
mids of Egypt, Assyria and Phoenicia all had their dupli­
cates in Central America, as we shall see in a separate
lecture on the significance of pyramids. The use of
cement was known alike to the European and American
nations. The use of the arch was known on both sides
oftheAtlantic. The manufacture of brick was known similarly in
(joththeOldand New Worlds. The style of ornamentation of monu­
mentsand public buildings has been much the same in both hemi­
spheres. It approaches idiocy to contend that these things just hap­
pened. Pyramids must have been known and erected in Atlantis.
Cementmust have been an Atlantean discovery, for its use to filter
tosuchwidely scattered parts of the planet. The Atlanteans must
havehadextensive claybeds and brickyards.
Inthefieldof metallurgy I refer you again to what I said in a recent
lectureon the mining of copper in the Lake Superior region of the
UnitedStates. Engineers estimate that 200,000 tons were removed
fromone ore field alone. Where did all this meted go? Where are
theevidences of it today? The Atlanteans must have possessed a
fullknowledge of how to mine all the ores, and have mined them,
workingin copper, tin, bronze, gold, silver and probably iron. We
bowtheAmerican nations possessed all these metals. Certainly we
haveequalevidence of them in the so-called Old World. The age of
bronze,orofcopper combined with tin, was preceded in America, and
nowhereelse, by a simpler age of copper. Therefore the working of
metalseither originated in America or in some other nation to which
itwastributary. The Mexicans manufactured bronze, and the Incas
minediron ore near Lake Titicaca. The Peruvians called gold “the
tearsofthesun.” It was sacred to the sun, as was silver to the moon.
Andoutof this last reference come our strange, strange fixations of
moderntimesin regard to the worth of gold and silver money.
Goldand silver as the proper substances for coinage having estab­
lishedvaluewhen politically utilized, date far, far back to a time when
theyellowmetal had association with the solar deity, and silver was
hallowedbecause of its affinity with the deity of night, the moon. Our
verymonetary systems in this twentieth century rest on the religious
superstitions of a gone and forgotten people. Gold of itself is of lit­
tleor no utility except for ornaments. Silver is of little value of
itselfexceptasit can be worked in alloys and plating to make utensils.
Andinthisregard there are a score of other metals which exceed it in
19
durability- Neither is it because gold and silver are so scarce, tta
they are used as the basis of coinage. That is a myth perpetuated
by an international banker group. There is more gold and silverhi
the w orld today uncoined than at any time within the historic or pre-
historic record of m an. M any gold and silver mines, even in Canada
of the present, are not allowed to be worked because the values ofthese
precious m etals are so depreciated that the recovery of them isno
longer w orth while. Silver has been bought in its crude state in
Canada, I am inform ed, for som ething like four cents a pound. It4
because these m etals were once reserved exclusively for the decora­
tion of tem ples, and the ornam enting of vestments of priests whohad
to do w ith the gods, that it became so deeply venerated. This practice
w as encouraged by a voracious financial hierarchy because, thereby,
having the m onetary system of a given country on a gold or silver
basis, the identical coinage representing that system could be calledin
and hoarded from tim e to time w hen recalcitrant rulers refused tobe
directed by arrogant bankers. Such performances are of record no
later than the times of the Charleses in England. We know painfully
well how pernicious is the practice in the countries of the modern
w orld at the present m om ent. ^
N sculpture, we are overwhelmed with the evidence of
the extent of this art on both sides of the Atlantic. Dr.
A rthur Schott in describing the Cara Gigantesca orgi­
gantic face, a m onum ent of Yzamal in Yucatan, says,
“Behind and on both sides, from under the mitre, ashort
veil falls upon the shoulders so as to protect the backof
the head and neck. This particular appendage vividly calls to mind
the sam e feature in the symbolic adornm ents of Egyptian and Hindu
priests, and even those of the Hebrew hierarchy." Dr. Schott seesin
the orbicular wheel-plates of this statue the wheel symbol of Kronos
and Saturn, and in turn it m ay be supposed that the wheel of Kronos
w as sim ply the Cross of A tlantis, surrounded by its encircling ring.
€][ The art of painting was know n on both sides of the Atlantic, the
paintings on som e of the walls of the temples of Central Americare­
pealing a state of art as high as that of Egypt.
engraving, w e are fam iliar enough w ith the hieroglyphics carved
on stone m onum ents, both in the Old ^X^orld and the New. And
he w orking of precious metals, there is not much difference inde-
of skill show n betw een the ornam ents delicately tooled as taken
20
•m theEgyptian and Assyrian tombs, and those recovered from
jVjeruinsinMaya and the west coast of South America.
n
.agriculture1havealready spoken. The Atlanteans were primarily
^agricultural people. Their great island continent, about the area
JtheUnitedStates, was particularly adapted to the raising of crops,
Ljflgprotected as \ve have seen by its range of mountains on the
riith,andhavinga far-flung level plain reaching east and west. What
^ findamong the civilized nations of both America and northern
A
frica,ishut avestige of the agricultural knowledge and skill which
producedsuchhorticultural wonders on Atlantis. In Egypt the king
pithishandto the plow at an annual festival, thus dignifying and
consecratingtheoccupation of husbandry. In Peru precisely the same
customprevailed. In both the plow was known. In Egypt it was
draw
nbyoxen, in Peru by men. It was drawn by men in the north
ofEuropedowntoacomparatively recent period.
Inpublicworks our heritage is such as to shame the engineers of to­
day. Theancient American nations built public works as great or
greaterthananyknown in Europe or Asia. As I have already men­
tioned,thePeruvianshadpublic roads one to two thousand miles long,
m
adesodurablyas to excite the admiration of the Spaniards. At
everyfewmilestaverns or hotels were established for the accommoda­
tionorprotectionof travelers. They built aqueducts for purposes of
irrigation,someofwhich were five hundred miles long. Again I say,
thatwouldbeasfar as from New York City to North Carolina. They
constructedmagnificent bridges of stone and even invented suspen­
sionbridgesthousands of years before they were introduced into
Europe. Theyhad, both in Peru and Mexico, a system of posts by
w
hichnewswastransmitted hundreds of miles in a day, precisely like
thoseknownamong the Persians in the time of Herodotus and sub­
sequentlyamongthe Romans. Stones similar to milestones can still
lieseenalongtheroads of Peru.
Sailingvesselswere known to the Peruvians and the Central Ameri­
cans. Thelocksat elevated Titicaca bear witness to the size of craft
thatcouldonlyhavebeen of Atlantean development. In 1502, how­
ever,Columbus met a party of Mayans in a large vessel equipped
w
ithsailsnearan island of Honduras, loaded with a variety of textile
fabricsofdivers colors. For the American nations manufactured
w
oolenandcotton goods, and made pottery as beautiful as tbe wares
°fEgypt. Theymanufactured glass, and engraved gems and precious
The Peruvians had such immense numbers of vessels and
21
ornaments of gold that the Inca or war-chief paid with them aransom
for himself, to Pizarro, of the value of fifteen million dollars.
There is evidence, as we shall see at a later date, that the Atlantean*
possessed guns, powder, and explosive firearms, evidently cannonan<J
other ordnance. W e do know that the weapons of the New World
weite identical with those of the Old ^X^orld, even in historic times.
They consisted of bows and arrows, spears, darts, short swords,battle-
axes and slings. Both peoples used shields or bucklers, andcasquesof
wood or hide covered with metal. If these weapons had been derived
from separate sources of invention, one country or the other would
have possessed implements not known to the other, like the blowpipe
and the boomerang. Absolute similarity in so many weapons, strong­
ly argues identity of origin.
It may well be advanced in the form of a question: well, sup­
posing all this is so; assuming that we of the twentieth century
are not half so smart as we think we are, and that all thatwe
are enjoying today is merely the recovery of lost arts commonlyknown
to men of ages ago— what of it? How does it make us any
more or any less adroit, to know that there was once a great conti­
nent on which a civilization flourished quite the equal of anythingof
the present? Where is the practical utility in knowing these pagesof
the world's previously unwritten history in these times of economic
and social stress, if we cannot translate our knowledge into waysand
means of improving our present condition?
It is not only a logical and fair question, but it goes to theverypithand
meat of our taking the trouble to scan these bygone eras.
Let us declare it in this manner: Because men and women areso
abysmally ignorant of eras of higher civilization that have comeand
gone on this planet, they are allowing great racial fixations tobecome
foisted upon them. They are being persuaded to accept certainclaim
s
and contentions made by specific peoples as to their own divinelyor
dained importance in the scheme of world society which cannotbe
substantiated in the light of knowledge of civilizations of ancient
times. If the truth about those ancient times could be universally
known and accepted, these preposterous claims would be laughedout
of court and world society would know a complete metamorphosisfor
the better. £&
For instance, the religions of the world, growing out of materialistic
culture which we are to examine in our next lecture, could notm
ain-
tain the support which they now command in many of theirritualistic
22
a&urditte®, if it could be conclusively shown that a million genera-
{tostof men were bom, grew to adulthood and perished without be-
victimsof much of the pernicious spiritual counseling that all too
frequentlyinfluences national and international morals. Certain races
d people, chiefly Semitic in character, would never be able to foist
d*Chosen People hoax on society, that now accrues to their over-
naming economic advantage. The Roman Church, which now
dominates the private lives of so many millions and thus affects the
conductof scores of nations, might not be able to exert so profound
tBinfluence if it were shown to be nothing but baptized paganism,
apolitical massing 6f rites, rituals, customs and pageantries that orig­
inallybegan in Atlantean Sun Worship.
Theseare matters of surpassing moment in our modern lives, and so
painfullypractical that it well behooves us to alter our ideas of the
GvilizedSaga, and stop thinking of mankind as a straight-line evolu­
tionfromthe fens of tropical France up through the Chaldean, Egyp­
tianand Babylonian cultures into the Greek and Roman on which
modemcivilization is founded.
Theaverage man or woman today is a bleeding mass of inhibitions
andspiritualadhesions because of the appalling historical and theolog­
icalhocus-pocus that has been foisted upon his or her ignorance. If He­
brewstakeworldly advantages today to which they are by no means
entitledin the family of races, they must not be criticized; they are
sacrosanctas God’s Chosen People! If the Pope issues a decree, mix­
inginworldlypolitics in which he has no business, or excommunicates
asoul from heaven for daring to defy the M other Church in some
socialcomplication, nothing must be done about it; he is the vicar of
Christonearth and the human race had no history w orthy of m ention
beforethe appearance of Jesus in Galilee!
Oursocial, theological, political and economic culture of the present
isamiasma of inherited bigotries, m isinterpretations, hoaxes and in­
dulgenceswhich have no basis in intelligent fact, w hen the past is ex­
aminedwith fearless eyes and ruthless fingers. The inherent reluc­
tanceofmodern scholars to bring up the facts of the past to the light
ofday, is due to the chastisements that are inflicted upon them in­
exorablyby those great racial and religious system s that w ould stand
tosufferfrom exposure if the truth were clear. Furtherm ore, the in­
hibitionshave now come to be so complete that m odern m an is ter­
rorizedtothedepths of his immortal soul, accepting that investigation
issomesort of unpardonable sin and that the' true past m ust be kept
23
blank lest something be unearthed that might “tip over existingl
stitutions." ta?
We are living under conditions today that are becoming economical
insufferable, because of mankind’s universal ignorance of thetruelJ
tory of the human race. The whole inheritance is a subversion. TL
watchword of the hour is Hush! And underneath, in thebloodstream
of universal society, the virus of wrong doctrine and unspeakableer^
and charlatanry is continuing to poison humanity to itshurt.
Well might we ask, what of the five million years in whichhumanity
lived and died upon this planet without any particular racebeingtl^
coddled and protected of the Almighty? What of the uncounted^
generations which lived without the rites of baptism andExtremeunc­
tion and managed to get along very well indeed? What ofthoseera*
when humanity knew nothing of the Vicarious Atonement, tie
Damnation of Infants, and Free Will or Predestination, and y$
wrought mightier wonders than our modern world can yet explain)
€][Let us in all reverence become sane men and women andlooktie
facts of world society in the face. Nothing is to be lost bysodoing.
The divinity of Christ is not denied by knowing the truth; onthecon­
trary, it is enhanced. The world needs a purging. It needsilluminat­
ing. For all of our vaunted progress which is merely a rediscovering
of things that once were common property of peoples and nations,
humanity is yet living in the Dark Ages. Only today, hewhodares
to cry out against the fiats of these traffickers in mass ignoranceisnot
introduced to the torture rack of the inquisition; he is introducedto
social ostracism, slanderous odium, journalistic bile, blackmailand
boycott, and perhaps if these prove ineffective, a $50 gunmanw
lo
shoots from shadows beside a garage.
When we probe back into the cultures of the ancient world,wearrive
at the culture of Atlantis which spread out east and west, northand
south. And we find that there is nothing new under thesun. E
ven
religion and religious beliefs are matters of evolution. AndGoddoes
not shut men and women out of heaven for growing, fordeveloping,
for expanding, for flowering. He has only decreed the penaltyof
nonexistence for closing the mind and sealing up the consciousness
against light and inspiration.
With the cultural items in a materialistic way which we havem
en*I
tioned, as earthly background, let us in our next lecture exploreintoI
the theological beliefs of the Atlanteans and get the firstglim
m
eringsI
of what true culture really means.
24 1
