{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n9_where_life_on_this_planet_came_from.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N9 Where Life On This Planet Came From","mylang":"de"}
The Ninth of
T
h
e^
B
eS
I
GALAHAD
LECTURES
“Where Life on this
Planet Came From”
B E IN G T H E N IN TH O F
The Galahad Lectures
HE GALAHAD LECTURES constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric History of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first forms of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantean and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer of 1932 and have been recorded
and preserved in this form for students of'the Foundation Fel-
loivship. C The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-zvide as­
sembly of Metaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in Mortality and for accurate
knowledge of the soul's enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth.
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BY PELLEY
PUBLISHERS OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA POSTOFFICE BOX 2630
SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE LIBERATION
SCRIPTS ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR i f ONE
HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE IN­
STRUCTION TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY tf
"Where Life on thisPlanetCameFrom”
NINTH LECTURE
E NOW come to a most interesting sequence in
our instruction: How Life appeared on this
newly formed planet and where it came from.
Before launching into that discussion, how­
ever, I want to say a word on the formation
of the continents of North and South Amer­
ica. If we have gained a comprehensive
idea of how earthquakes, volcanoes and tidal
waves originate, and accept that the wrath of
God has nothing to do with them, we have
achieved our present objective in their regard.
<
[True, there have been terrain catastrophes that have occurred, ac­
cording to the mystics and prophets of the ages, as a result of the
“sins” of masses of people. Metapsychics teaches us that there is
some connection between coagulations of Hate thoughts projected
into the “Universal,” and “natural balances” that are disturbed with
great loss of life. Perhaps it may be so. But there is no certain way
of timing them, and we do not yet know at what point wrong think­
ing or evil practicing starts the terrain disturbance into action. We
doknow, on the other hand, that a given amount of telluric or alluvial
material deposited on the bed of gulf or ocean, will cause weight and
heat beneath. We do know that such heat will make for expansion
and that from such expansion crust-activity in adjacant areas will re­
sult, Until we know more about the powers of Thought, therefore,
and can positively estimate how much evil thinking or doing brings
terrain alteration or atmospheric upset, we must place the meta-
psychical explanation in the realm of conjecture.
JAN 31*41
From the geological standpoint, we have indications that much of the
underlying strata from Chicago out toward Labrador and Newfound­
land, and on across the North Atlantic toward Scandinavia and Ice­
land, is approximating a state so molten as to be more or less hazard­
ous to human life on the earth’s surface. Down through the ages
this has been the area that has received the greatest deposits of telluric
material from those far northern climes that took the brunt of the
falling water rings, millennium on millennium. From the lower edge
of the arctic circle—and the same applies to the antarctic circle—this
material proceeded to distribute itself all over the globe, by the cen­
trifugal force of the whirling earth’s “working” it there or finding
a mean level for the extraneous material on the planet’s surface.
For the same reason, though not from the same causes, the area that
includes the Mediterranean region, the west coast of Spain and Portu­
gal and many districts in Asia Minor, is also weakly constructed un­
derneath and subject to subterranean disturbances at any time. Only
instead of the weight on the crust’s coming from a disintegrating polar
ice-cap’s dropping its material to the ocean’s bed, the rivers of great
watersheds have been bringing down alluvial sediment and setting it
adrift in gulf, sea and ocean. The Caribbean Sea is a third danger
zone. It gets the weight of sediment from two of the earth s mightiest
rivers: the Mississippi and the Amazon. By the same token, Japan
is forever in an unsettled state by being located at the mouth of
China’s great alluvial streams. The “wash” out of the Yellow' River
is so great that the Japan and Yellow Seas are discolored! as far as
Nagasaki. The South Sea Islands are unsettled, probably, by under­
sea drifts coming from the melting of the south polar ice-cap.
The origin of the material is not of consequence. That it does reach
the ocean’s floor and fan out in vast areas, is certain. It is equally
certain that at a given point, when enough has been deposited, the
ocean beds will alter. And when and as they alter, the adjacent con­
tinents feel the effects.
There is evidence in the substratum formations of Great Britain, for
instance, that the British Isles have been submerged beneath the
ocean’s surface, and risen from it again, eight times, although not with­
in the memory of modern man. That it may happen again is not
outside the range of possibilities. There are portions of the east coast
of Britain that have suffered the encroachment of the North Sea at the
rate of almost five miles per year, during the past generation. How
long this can go on,, and what alterations may be taking place deep
.4
within the planet, causing it, are indeterminate. But Great Britain as
anisland is not half so solid as the temperament of the race that is liv­
ing upon it. jy
Here in North America we are far more concerned with what seems
tobe happening deep down under the Province of Ontario.
m
H i
theme.
|OU remember that in a previous Lecture I told of the
formation of Lake Agassiz across our Middle West, and
how this vast body of water found its outlet in its north­
eastern corner instead of in the south as the former bed
of Agassiz is drained today. Let me repeat some details
of that Lake’s formation for further alliteration of our
That great area of water, stretching from eastern Ohio to
western Kansas, south as far as Memphis and north to Hudson’s Bay,
was undoubtedly the southern extremity of the last great ice-cap be­
fore the present one. By the time the glaciers pushed down as far
asthe hills of Wyoming, they encountered a climate so warm that they
began to break off and melt as icebergs. These melting bergs not
only maintained but deepened Lake Agassiz, which poured out into
the north Atlantic near Newfoundland and thus caused an impercepti­
ble current to which the floating ice masses responded. As many of
these bergs drifted free in Lake Agassiz, loaded heavily with material
—either telluric material frozen when it dropped from the skies or
alluvial material collected enroute from polar areas—they often
gouged great grooves in the hills and rises on Agassiz’ bottom, or
dropped their heaviest boulders along some of those titanic furrows.
The vast boulder pastures of northern New York and New England
prove incontestably the northeastern drift of these mighty bergs due
to the pull of the current toward the Lake’s outlet, the present St.
Lawrence River. What I am getting at is, that heavy deposits of other
materials besides boulders were laid down along the eastern shores of
Agassiz, and uncountable tons of it were not left behind when the
bergs had melted, as were the boulders. They were swept northeast­
ward, out through Lake Agassiz’ vent, and spilled upon the ocean’s
floor. Newfoundland was probably lifted above the Atlantic’s sur­
face by the weight-pressure-heat process resulting. But more im­
portant to ourselves here in America at present, the White and Green
Mountains were undoubtedly thrust higher, gradually closing or at
least narrowing the vent, until Agassiz filled to a mean depth of 500
feet. Whereupon the Lake finally brimmed over the lowest ridges
5
of the Ozarks, as I have said, and the Mississippi was bom as th
channel gradually wore deeper and wider, and the alluvial m
aterial
that had formerly spilled down the St. Lawrence and out into Fundv’s
Bay was diverted down toward the Gulf of Mexico. In consequence
of this, things began to happen to Central and South America w
hich
should have our attention briefly before leaving this continent-making
activity to consider the arrival of life on this planet.
W e must remember that while it seems strange to us to be told that
changes in the vents of Lake Agassiz could be responsible for
changes in the outlines of South America, we must consider the planet
in terms of hemispheres when determining causes of adjustments of
terrain. Mighty areas Eire at all times involved. If we could ascend
to a sufficient height to look down on most of the western hem
i­
sphere, particularly those parts in the vicinity of the equator, it would
not appear so implausible that a river of such length and of such a
current as the Mississippi could not possibly halt on reaching the G
ulf.
Draining such a stupendous territory, and with such a water-weight
behind it, the effects would be evident far out at sea, beyond Florida,
beyond the W est Indies. Viewing its momentum from such a height
too, we would have no difficulty in observing this great river s sub­
marine conjunction with the Amazon. We would see plainly enough
why the whole equatorial district, including Mexico, is so highly un­
stable. But at this point in our delineations we must consider a cir­
cumstance not previously mentioned. There was a time when South
America had no Amazon River as we know it today, and the making
of it is directly tied up with alterations on our northern continent.
The making of it is likewise tied up with events that changed the en­
tire course of civilization all over the planet; for the lifting of the
Andes Mountains, as well as the isthmus of Central America, halted
all intercourse between Lemuria and Aticmtis. And that was a hap­
pening of no mean moment.
6
OW South America has a peculiar aspect. At present
Brazil is bisected east and west by the Amazon River,
flowing down from the eastern watershed of the mighty
Andes Mountains that form a lofty backbone for the
continent on her western edge. But at the time that the
bergs from the last polar ice-cap were breaking up in
Lake Agassiz, floating eastward with her current and depositing sedi­
ment that made weight and pressure in the North Atlantic and raised
the White and Green Mountains, South America was probably flat.
She was doubtless as flat all over her equatorial and western regions
as she is today in the Argentine. Over in the Pacific Ocean, from
Hawaii to the Marquesas Group, and extending eastward as far as
Easter Island, was the older mother continent of Lemuria. In the
Atlantic Ocean, from Greenland to Brazil, and stretching east and
west with only narrow strips of sea between her and North America
and western Europe, was the continent of Atlantis whose existence
we shall discuss in a later sequence. Between these two old conti­
nents, stretched the isthmus country of Central America much as it
does today but with this difference: it was much wider than it is at
present, and it was traversed by a canal antedating the Panama Canal
bythousands of generations.
Ifyou will turn to a map of South America that shows Easter Island
in the Pacific, and move your finger on a line due east from this re­
maining vestige of Old Lemuria, you will point out a spot in the
Andes Mountains labeled Lake Titicaca. This lake, despite its present
elevation, was once down at sea level. At a time when all South
America was of similarly low altitude, Lake Titicaca marked the east­
ernend of the Atlantic-Pacific canal. Elmbarking from a point in Old
Lemuria that is now Elaster Island, the Lemurians sailed eastward
until they came to the western entrance to this canal. Through it they
plied their vessels, emerging in the Amazon Sea. This sea, quite as
bigas former Lake Agassiz in extent, covered almost the whole north­
ern area of South America except for a long hooked arm that gave
the continent its northern curvature throughout the district now
known as Venezuela.
Into this Amazon Sea the old Lemurian vessels sailed, I say, came
out into the Atlantic, and steered a straight course for the southern
seaports of Atlantis, whence they later continued their way to the
west coast of Africa or up into the Mediterranean Sea.
At the time that Lake Agassiz up in North America was a vast inland
7
sea with bergs drifting ever eastward, the isthmus of Central America
Was double its present width. This width seems to have been nar-
rowed to something like modern proportions by the smashing of a
fearful tidal wave against it—a tidal wave that came from the east.
We feel certain of this because uniformly the ruins of the old M
ayan
and Carian civilizations dotting this territory appear to have toppled
westward. What more plausible explanation could we have for this
spilling of stones and alluvial material westward, than that the land
was swept by a gigantic wash of water from the east? Whether this
mammoth tidal wave, recorded on ruins in Central and South America
as being 65 feet high, resulted from the sudden sinking of Atlantis,
we have no means of knowing. Atlantis sank too suddenly and
dynamically, and the resultant wash on adjacent shores was too over­
whelming, for much detail to have been preserved in contiguous coun­
tries regarding it.
We know that the whole present Andes Mountain country was at one
time on sea level; because the locks, quays and other stonework ofthe
Titicaca Canal are still in existence with the scraping marks of in­
coming and outgoing vessels still plain upon them, although now
lifted 14,000 feet in the air.
Only in the construction of the Great Pyramid in Egypt has such
stupendous architecture been preserved elsewhere on the earth s sur­
face. Some of the solid stones in the caned walls of Lake Titicaca
weigh 800-tons each—mute testimony to man’s lost art of masonry.
The whole canal ensemble was raised 14,000 feet, as by a titaniceleva­
tor, with scarcely a seam opening in the stonework. The question
naturally arises: What stupendous subterranean force pushed up
those Andes Mountains, carrying aloft the masonry and surrounding
terrain that formerly allowed the Pacific and Atlantic oceans to be
connected by a waterway?
For that explanation, we look to North America.
8
ONSIDER w hat m ust have happened when the pressure
on the bed of the Atlantic off Newfoundland wrought
the expansion that elevated the W hite and Green Moun­
tains. It meant the narrowing and closing of Lake
Agassiz’ vent to the northeast. The lake filled deeper
and deeper till it brimmed over the Ozark Mountains
in the vicinity of Memphis. W hereupon it proceeded to cut a deep
channel down through the Ozarks and drain to the south. The soft
strata in the Ozarks permitted this readily. Down toward the Gulf
began to drift the telluric and alluvial materials deposited by the bergs,
from the north, together with the sweepings and washings from the
Appalachian and Rocky Mountains. Into the Gulf at ever increas­
ing rate and volume, all this substance was swept, and year by year
the weight increased upon the ocean’s floor between Cuba and the
mouth of the then Amazon Sea on the eastern coast of South Amer­
ica. This weight made pressure on the substrata and this pressure
made heat and consequent expansion. Something had to “give.” So
we perceive the whole Central American region becoming extremely
unstable. Mexico began popping off volcanoes and the Central Amer­
ican countries followed suit. Earthquakes made a continual trembling
of the floor of the West Indies. Finally a vast cleavage was opened, in
a southwestern line, down the earth’s subterranean crust. Great
areas of natural gas were fired by the hydraulically pressed igneous
material coining through the substrata; they exploded with titanic
detonations, and elevated everything on the surface above them. But
the surface above did not fall back into sea-level position when the
exploding was over. The igneous material pressed through in a stu­
pendous infusion of quasi-solid matter, on which the Andes country
rested as it cooled. Then again, this powerful elevating force doubtless
pushed the rock-prisms of the earth’s crust up into a keystone-arch po­
sition, and, falling backward, or settling, they interlocked and remained
unaffected by further disturbances, as we find formations to this day.
(JSuch an elevation could have but one plausible result on bodies of
\vater that found themselves on an inclined plane when those moun­
tains had elevated. They would immediately drain off, almost with
avalanche volume. The so-called Amazonian Sea, therefore, was
evidently tipped up on its eastern edge and sent skylarking into the
southern Atlantic. Thus was born the Am azon River. Thus was
born the mighty tropical country of equatorial Brazil. Rich in alluvial
sediment accumulated on the Amazon sea bottom over thousands of
9
generations, and heated by the hothouse climate of the tropics, is #
any wonder that vast jungles at once sprang up and choked the life
out of the hundreds of Carian cities that once lined the shores of this
great inland sea?
W e m ust view the earth as a globe, in considering these vast changes.
It has to maintain its equilibrium as it goes whirling mightily
through space. If there is a depression caused on one side, as with a
titanic rubber ball, something has to balance it on the other. If the
Andes M ountains came up to their present height by such a process
as we have just examined, we should by no means overlook the pos­
sibility that other great ranges on the opposite side of the ball, likethe
Himalayas for instance, may have been thrown out higher as well, in
the earth’s attem pt to preserve a true balance.
EAVING South America and coming back to Labrador
for a moment, we should not blind ourselves to the fact
that by no means has the subterranean activity ended,
that sent up the White and Green Mountains and ef­
fected such disastrous results down by the West Indies.
For some reason— probably the weight of the materials
still being deposited on the North Atlantic’s bed, to say nothing of the
volume of water being added to the Atlantic itself as thousands of
bergs break off from polar glaciers and melt season by season—a tre­
mendous internal readjustment took place a few years ago belowthe
ocean’s bed off Newfoundland and the floor of the Atlantic fell to
a depth that has not yet been determined by oceanographers. A friend
of mine, on one of the big trans-Atlantic ships coming from Europe
at the time, reported that the Ocean’s billows seemed to “freeze” fora
m om ent and the whole North Atlantic become still as a millpond. The
ship stopped swaying and poised in mid-air, her propeller out of water.
9 The sudden dropping of all that ocean bed had a vital effect on the
St. Lawrence basin as of old. Undoubtedly the dropping of the At­
lantic’s bed forced igneous material to the west through the substrata
of Labrador and Ontario. At any rate we know that serious condi­
tions are indicated under that Canadian province. Nearly all mining
operations have ceased from Furnace Lake southward. At a depth
of 3,000 feet the material composing the bottoms of the mine borings
is so mobile and plastic that duckboards rock precariously beneath
the feet. A bucket dropped from the surface may or may not reach
bottom. Many times it sticks in the vertical shaft, due to the drifting
10
0f the strata near the surface. If it gets to the shaft’s bottom, those
^ho have descended in it look upward and perceive that the shaft’s
^alls have shifted and curved like a monstrous letter S. The shifting
ofthe strata backwards and forwards from east to west, discloses how
insecure the surface material is, despite its deceptive covering of
shrubbery and vegetation.
Igneous material deep down under the Ontario Valley must sooner or
laterbring about an alteration of the surface. Some geologists are of
theopinion that great gas belts still exist in long subterranean pockets
and chambers under this territory. I am told that there are many
placesin Ontario and Quebec where one may stand on the surface and
hear mighty gas rumblings beneath the feet, portending that sooner
or later they must seek a vent. If oxygen gets to them when they
are in contact with molten material that is being squeezed laterally
through the substrata, there will be combustion. If there is a serious
detonation, disturbing the surface to any degree, again Nature’s proc­
essesset in operation by alterations in this northeastern territory may
remake the contours of continents. It is probably the most produc­
tive territory in the western hemisphere, of far-flung reactions and
repercussions. When I say “remake the contours of continents,’’ I
call attention to what may logically happen if there should be a sud­
den“blowing out” of the Ontario gas belts with a resultant depression
or sinking of the land, of only 15 feet, along a line from Montreal
to Chicago, t? t?
AsIsaid in a former Lecture explaining the nature and cause of earth
“faults,” one of America’s most active crust fissures runs from New
Brunswick, out the St. Lawrence valley, to lose itself west of Chicago
somewhere in the flat country of Iowa. A serious disturbance along
this fissure that would drop or depress the earth’s surface 15 feet or
m
ore, would break the far-flung land dike that is now the southern
shores of Lake Ontario, Lake Erie and Lake Michigan, and all the
waters of the Great Lakes, not to ignore the waters of Hudson’s Bay,
might be precipitated down through the American Middle West. This
would mean a flood that would divide America into two parts. Such
astupendous deluge would probably not be able to pour through the
M
emphisCut all at once. The effect of moving such a mass of alluvial
material southward, might be to fill up the Cut and restore Lake
Agassiz, exactly as the Mississippi continually brings down alluvial
material in lesser amounts and builds up the delta year by year around
N
ewOrleans. This plugging of the Cut could not, of course, be per-
11
manent. Sooner or later the tremendous wash of water southward
would cut the channel still deeper and wider than the Mississippi is
doing at present, and carry with it immense quantities of sediment
into the Gulf and the Caribbean Sea. Such alluvial deposits would
accumulate on the sea floor near Central America, until the increased
weight caused pressure-heat-expansion beneath the sea and adjacent
land, and quakes and volcanoes would occur with more devastating
effects than ever.
T IS in no spirit of wanting to needlessly alarm people,
that I present these geological deductions. There is an
old saying that “what you don’t know won’t hurt you.’’
Like many other half-truths it is more dangerous than
a whole truth. It is what you don’t know that does
hurt you. When you know, you can act wisely andsave
yourself from harm. It would be silly, of course, to start preaching
to our thousands of friends throughout the Middle West that they
should move out of America’s great prairie section. It has been stable
for hundreds of years and may perhaps continue stable for hundreds
more. But considering the fearful Karma of such cities as Detroit
and Chicago, one wonders at times if such a catastrophe, erasing
municipalities that cire notorious for their unwholesome elements,
would be the unmitigated calamity that the alarmists would adjudge
it. Always we come back to our sound metapsychics when consider­
ing such a premise and remember that no one is ever drowned w
ho
is slated to die peacefully of lumbago in his bed. The manner of
our individual deaths is predetermined, if the truth could only be
known. If one has elected to go out of mortal life by the drowning
route, he might flee a thousand floods of the size of such a M
idwest
submergence only to crash through a mountain bridge in his Ford and
be drowned in a puddle while unconscious— or more ignominous still,
lip on the soap, strike his head on the tub and expire in a foot-bath,
"here is a mighty law governing such matters.
\s a fact not to be overlooked or ignored, however, that hundreds ol
sties operating independently of one another and not always know
•)f one another’s clairvoyant predictions, have stated that ultimate
^re is coming such a partioning of America. They declare the]
^een it occur in hyperdimensional excursions, that there will b
v
. America and a West America, with the capital of the forme
hington and the capital of the latter to be built in a locality
12
roximating S an Luis Obispo in California. But when and if such
gigantic alteration becomes an actuality, vast new areas of
? J will have arisen to extend both the present east and west coasts,
3d both capitals will be cities located far inland. It is something
t0 think about, although by no means do I advise anyone to go invest-
jpgin real estate in either city in anticipation of an early rise in terrain
values, t? & . . . , , - |
W
hile we are thus supposing in major catastrophes, we might also
taketheconceit out of smug persons dwelling on the Atlantic seaboard
w
homay look with a certain condescension on the jeopardy involving
thoseforced to reside in the Middle West, by telling them something
ofwhat may happen if a tidal wave over ten feet high should come
rollingin some morning from the northern Atlantic.
Ihavealready spoken of a second major fault in the North American
crust, that forks from the Logan Fault in a manner of speaking and
runs down through Portland, Boston, New Haven, New York, Phila­
delphia, Baltimore and Washington. I have already suggested that
everysquare mile of sea water ten feet above normal, adds a weight
of9 1-2million tons to the underlying strata sustaining it. Consider
thenwhat would happen if a tidal wave moving at a speed of from
500 to 1,000 miles an hour, and weighing 9 1-2 million tons to the
m
ile, suddenly smashed against the so-called Atlantic Shelf. In the
vicinityof New York, at least, some interesting things might happen.
(JNewYork is supposed to be constructed on an impregnable granite
ledge. It is nothing of the sort. Not only does the Atlantic Shelf
Faultpass off the shores of Long Island, but Manhattan itself is bisect­
edbythree sizable faults that lose themselves off behind New Jersey.
O
neruns through 125th Street, one runs through 28th Street, and the
third—and most precarious— runs through a line midway between
Canal Street and 14th Street. This last is in a far more dangerous
condition than the New York newspapers care to report. Prof. Todd
ofAmherst, one of the eminent geologists of the past generation, con­
tinuallytold of the false security with which New York people accredit
the quakeproof condition of their snug little isle—which is really a
shelf-peninsula thrusting out into the Atlantic. All that makes Man­
hattan an island is a little mud-flat river winding a course from the
HudsonRiver to the East River, a stream so shallow that a good-sized
barge could not sink in it and disappear beneath the surface. Prof.
Todd claimed that far, far down under the Manhattan peninsula a
giganticcavern may well exist, of which the New York 1
edge is merely
13
the ceiling.' Other authorities pooh-poohed the idea, but none of
them have been able to rationalize as yet the circumstance that the
crevice running east and west between Canal and 14th Streets is grad­
ually widening. It is already so wide in places that when excavations
were made for the new subway a few years ago, a man could walk
sidewise through the fissure. On the occasion of a personal visit to
Manhattan, I passed a plot in lower Broadway where workmen had
been striving for months to complete the cellar hole for a new sky­
scraper in the vicinity of this Fault. Sand and water were oozing up
to the surface at such an alarming rate that pumps were going con­
tinuously to keep the seepage out till cement work could be com­
pleted, much after the manner of a dentist filling a hollow tooth.
What I am driving at is, that if a ten-foot tidal wave should suddenly
come sweeping out of the Atlantic and crash against the Atlantic
Shelf, the east-and-west cleavage is already such that the New York
ledge might tilt like a gigantic seesaw. The weight of water on the
eastern side might bear it down, while the western edge of the ledge
rose high in air. In this event, the skyscrapers of lower Manhattan
might rattle off into the Atlantic like a lot of tin toys. In substantia­
tion of what I am saying, I can point you to a series of Sunday feature
articles in The New York World some fifteen years ago in which this
eventuality was seriously although luridly discussed.
F WE wanted to go into the mystical features of such pre­
dictions, we might well be appalled. Time and tim
e
again since I started metapsychical work I have had
manuscripts of communications sent to my desk for
comment, purporting to have come from Higher Levels
of Subliminal Thought, in which minute details of such
a series of terrain alterations have been given. Many of these, of
course, show a subconscious “coloring” where the communicators
have heard of such catastrophes and have elaborated on them unwit­
tingly. But I do find it difficult to rationalize certain world m
aps
which have been drawn by the Controlled Pencil from time to tim
e,
in the hands of people unbeknown to one another and hundreds of
miles apart, in which forthcoming inundated areas are carefully shad­
ed in, showing the regions to be submerged at some future date.
I ask in all sobriety how it happens that a woman in Oregon, a boy
in San Francisco, a young man in Detroit and another in Virginia,
should all draw maps that specify exactly the same districts that m
ay
14
go under water? Describing those inundated areas roughly, we find
the Ontario country submerged as 1 have indicated. Ocean water
comes in from polar seas north of Labrador, joins Hudson’s Bay and
the Great Lakes and makes a clear sweep of water to the Gulf of
Mexico. Lower Manhattan is totally obliterated. So too is the south
ofEngland. A mammoth horseshoe inundation is shown as going into
the heart of France and scooping-in Paris. The lower half of Italy
disappears, including Rome.
And I might interpolate here that it has come to my knowledge by
underground channels that most of the valuable ancient manuscripts
and books that have been housed for generations in the Vatican
Library have already been removed and synthetic copies substituted.
One wonders whether the Pope has received information psychically
concerning such a forthcoming catastrophe involving Rome and has
taken precautions against the loss of the volumes that are the very
cornerstones of Catholicism throughout the earth.
Continuing my description of terrain submergences, we also find the
Mediterranean greatly enlarged, with ocean water completely filling
the vast Sahara basin again. In the Orient, such tremendous areas
of China are involved, including the Gobi desert, that it appears not
unlikely that great migrations of Chinese toward Europe may occur,
particularly into Russia, perhaps duplicating the onslaught of Asiatic
peoples that once took place under Genghis Khan.
It is all conjecture, of course; but why are so many people, far re­
moved from one another and unknown to one another, getting maps
drawn for them psychically with precisely the same shaded areas
shown as being ultimately covered by water?
Granting for the moment that “there is something to it,” do you not
begin to grasp the terrific measure of consolation in the pronounce­
ments reiterated again and again in our Scripts, that those who have
acquired the Christ Consciousness and hence the Christ Protection,
canin nowise be injured? No one can perish in such a series of terrain
readjustments who is not slated to perish thus. Each one of us comes
into life on a vibration that will bear us safely through such calami­
ties, if we are here to teach, inspire, and lead humanity through the
period of reconstruction that must necessarily follow. The group
ofpeople out across the Nation who are following this instruction are
going to be terrifically in demand when such a readjustment of earth-
peoples and earth-territory is terminated. That may possibly be the
significance of their interest in these studies.
15
Understand me, I am not claiming that merely because you and others
are interested in Liberation work, that you thereby have an invisible
exemption-from-harm button on your coat lapels. But teachers—
minor avatars to a degree— are going to be needed in any event,
whether the upsets of the future are terrestrial or social, or both, as
thy never have been needed in the history of the race. Those of u
s
who are possessed of psychic attainments are well aware that “som
e­
thing is on the make,” and we find corroboration of it not lacking
when we turn to the sedate confirmations of Astronomy and Geology.
Let us remain sane human beings, however, merely cultivating a
wholesome change-mindedness. Let us be fully prepared, mentally
and spiritually, for alteration if and when it comes, and be duly grate­
ful if it does not.
E T us now go back to a consideration of some of the con­
ditions that prevailed on earth after the heaviest rings
of telluric materials had fallen and enough had cooled
to form what we now recognize as the earth s stable
crust. €][ W e know that this crust had not been in ex­
istence very long, geologically speaking, before anim
ate
life began to appear on the planet’s surface. The question arises,
what is so-called animate life, and where did it come from? Let m
e
call your attention to a strange phenomenon.
Out in the Sierra Nevada Mountains o f the west there exists a strange
bug that has long been a m ystery to natural scientists. A peculiarity
o f this species seems to be that it is a land bug of the beetle family. ;
A n d yet, dropped into fresh water, specimens will drown like any
other animal that finds itself unable to swim.
After such drowning in fresh water has taken place, the littlebodies
of these beetles placed upon a board will shrivel up like the huskol
any other living species and completely disintegrate in time. Thatis,
they will decay like any other chemical body or bodies. After such
drowning in fresh water they are “as dead as Pharoah’s M
um
m
y."
But suppose, while you are waiting for their insect husks to dry out
and blow away, you take a trip down to the Pacific Ocean andbring
back a demijohn of salt water. Pour a quantity of it in a basin. Scoop
up a handful of your little dead bugs and drop them in this ocean
water. Immediately every bug will come back to life and pursue the
hectic tenor of its insect way!
This is tantamount to saying that there is something in the chem
ical
16
properties of ocean water that produces animate life in physical mat­
ter, as we know it.
What principle otherwise is working out in the item of a handful of
beetles drowned dead in fresh water and yet restored to animation
insalt water?
There is something in the combination—or rather I might say the
chemistry—of the actinic ray in sunshine in collusion with the saline
properties of ocean water, that results in the life urge’s manifesting
in the first faint forms of submarine life out of which it is entirely
possible that the long line of biological forms have evolved.
Nowit is worthy of note, when we trace back over the vast geological
periods that have maintained on this planet, that each time-sequence
between the glacial epochs seems to have either precipitated or pro­
duced different manifestations of biological life. Beginning with the
firstsaline sea forms that are little more than vegetables detached from
the ocean’s beds, we find them crawling up on land and introducing
insect life. Any biologist will tell you that this whole earth was once
given over to prodigious insects of all types. Them came a great
glacial epoch in which these monstrous forms were all killed off.
Theywere succeeded in another age by the so-called Reptiles. These
too possessed the earth—the titanic flying lizards, the antediluvian
monsters. Then came another water-ring precipitation, laying down
another great ice-cap, and these vanished in turn. The vertebrates
appeared. And the mammals. Each of these glacial epochs ended in
a deluge condition, and each destroyed the type of life that had pre­
ceded it. iff 4*
Thequestion naturally arises, was it not possible that the types of life
that appeared one after the other on the earth, or at least the germ of
eachtype of life, originated in the stupendous oceans that were whirl­
ingthousands of miles in the skies, to take up their earthly residence
aseach water ring fell, precipitating them down with it!
Bear in mind that these rings and water canopies of which we are
hearingso much in these Lectures, had their upper surfaces exposed to
the sun over thousands of generations. There was no such exposure
on the underneath surfaces of the rings and canopies, and therefore
lifecould scarcely have been a result of chemesthesis among the plant
lifeon the cooling planet’s surface.
Then there is another strange item to be taken into consideration at
thispoint, and which constantly occurs to biologists. We have on this
planet the phenomenon of microbes.
17
Physiologists of the present day trace certain diseases to their sources
and find the germ. It is beginning to occur to those interested in great
cosmic processes, to ask whether microbes as we know them really
belong to this earth or whether they have become unwelcome visitors
from interstellar space.
GAIN and again naturalists of modern times have beenas
interested as they were puzzled over falls of variously
colored snows in widely separated regions of the earth.
Residents of Alaska as well as of other districts within
the arctic circle have been frightened within recent years
by falls of crimson snows. Analyzing the cause of this
redness, the snowflakes have been found to be infested with trillions
of minute life-forms of a reddish tinge, totally unlike any species of
microbes found or known elsewhere on the globe. Where could these
have come from but out of interstellar space? In Bavaria in February
of a few years ago newspaper accounts were published of a fall of
“golden** snow. Investigating this astonishing yellowness, still an­
other variety of microbes was discovered. We are left to wonder
whether our planet, tearing through space on its mighty orbit, m
ay
not run into remnants of other planets on which life is still existent.
The materials perish by friction, on coming into contact with our
stratosphere, but the forms of biological life evolving upon them m
ay
easily adjust themselves to our climatical conditions and sink to earth
to thenceforth torment man.
This resolves the phenomena to the quandary as to whether or not
life as such can exist outside of an oxygen-hydrogen envelope. Ap­
parently it can! Those of our readers who have pursued studies in
natural history are doubtless acquainted with that species of animate
life known as the Parachute Spider. This little insect spins a parachute
out of its bodily secretions that appears to make it superior to all law
s
of gravitation. A migration of these little spiders has been observed
in Oriental countries, coming down out of the stratosphere in such
numbers as to make it appear from a distance that the sun was “draw
­
ing water.’’ The effect is produced by trillions of them engaged insuch
descent. They will remain a few hours or days on the planet’s sur­
face, then spin new parachutes and betake themselves to air. There
they vanish utterly, and may not be experienced again for years o
r
generations. Where can they go? Is it possible that they find a w
ay
to waft themselves out into interstellar space? All of us are fam
iliar
18
tfith so-called plagues of frogs and locusts. Millions of tiny frogs will
suddenly be found in a given territory in a night; California, accord-
jugto newspaper reports, had had such a shower of frogs a few years
since. For no biological reason and from no traceable source, the
ground will be black with hordes of these tiny creatures that appear
from nowhere and vanish as strangely. Or great clouds of locusts
will descend on countries in the Near East in such numbers as to dark­
enthe sun, consuming vegetation in their path, to rise after they have
eaten to satiation and vanish as mysteriously as they came. No one
hasever fathomed what becomes of the billions of creatures that com­
pose a plague of locusts. All of us are familiar with the Biblical ac­
counts of the plagues that descended on the Egyptians in the time of
M
oses. Is it any wonder, if modern science cannot determine what
becomes of parachute spiders, tiny frogs or trillions of grasshoppers,
that the Biblical writers should have blamed an angry Jehovah as the
cause of such mundane afflictions?
’ should not be difficult, therefore, to accredit what our
Sacred Scripts tell us as to the origin of human life on
this planet. Not the biological ape-forms which we in­
habit, but the spiritual essences that are ourselves. If
microbes can exist and traverse interstellar space as we
have reason to believe they do, why could not spiritual
manreach this planet after a journey across interplanetary distances?
If the Light Body of a psychometric boy, to whom I have referred,
could penetrate solid walls of wood or masonry, like steam going
through an ordinary screen door, and bring back an account of what
hewitnessed as occurring at a distance, is it so necromantic that the
Light Bodies of millions of discarnate individuals could migrate any­
where in the universe that they wanted to go or perhaps were dis­
patched? What could stop such a celestial migration?
W
edo know that millions of years ago this evolving planet had tre­
mendous oceans revolving about it, miles in the skies. We do know
thatthe penetration of saline water by certain rays from the sun brings
achemesthesis that results in the biological life urge. We do know
that the revolving water rings fanned out northward and southward
toward the poles as canopies, and that when the earth had slowed to
agiven rate of revolution where suspension by centrifugal force was
nolonger possible, they plunged down in the arctic and antarctic cir­
cles. These factors in our equation being present, it is logical to conr
19
elude that many forms of biological life that succeeded one another
on the earth’s crust might originally have been hatched during the
millenniums that our ocean waters were held aloft. Furthermore, it
is quite as reasonable that as each water ring or canopy was heavy
with different kinds of grosser materials, these too might have had
their influence on the type of life to be later precipitated upon the
planet for subsequent evolution into the forms that either perished
in the succeeding ice ages or are with us at present.
As we shall discuss presently when we come to a consideration of
life on earth under such water canopies, these species grew to great
size because without the sun’s shining directly upon them the actinic
rays that distinguish unobstructed sunlight could not get in their
death-dealing work. In other words, the swirling oceans high in th
e
skies, whether as rings or as a canopy, operated to filter out the actinic
rays, and in the resultant hothouse condition prevailing underneath
such canopy, biological life continued to grow without circumscrip­
tion. Also, in this heavy hothouse condition under those water ceil­
ings of the antediluvian earth, the mist-laden atmosphere was m
ore
buoyant. Forms could exist in great size then, that could not exist
today when the naked sunlit atmosphere furnishes no such buoyancy.
E are told in Genesis, quite correctly, that “A mist w
ent
up and watered the ground.” It certainly did go u
p
,
17,000 miles up, or rather, the entire airspace u
nder
the canopy was saturated with mists and drippings from
those suspended seas. I believe I have already m
en­
tioned that our tonsils sure naught but vestiges of th
e
literal gills through which man was forced to breathe when he lived
in an earth condition that we now call the Garden of Eden.
Microbes, therefore, might not have been planned for this earth ata
ll.
They might have resulted from the skies* being cleared of th
ose
canopies which protected life on earth from the sun’s actinic raysb
u
t
the removal or precipitation of which exposed the globe to all so
rts
of interplanetary hazards and afflictions. This we shall study m
o
re
deeply when we come to consider what was truly meant by man’sb
e­
ing ‘‘driven forth from Eden.” Many species of microbes are b
en
e­
ficial. But by far the greater part are pernicious and wage a constant
battle with science. Nevertheless, despite such unwelcome visitors
from Space, and the pruning-back process of disease, all form
s o
f
biological life attained enormous size because of the absence of tb
*
20
Jeath-dealing actinic rays of direct sunlight and the tremendous buoy-
nC
y of the mist-laden atmosphere. Man himself, when he made his
finished ape-form appearance, was not immune from monstrosity of
8
ize as compared with the human species today. Nor was he held
down to the short life-span of 70 years that became his portion when
the actinic sun-rays touched his naked body after the heavens were
cleared of the water filter. The Biblical reports of the early patriarchs’
living to 150 years before begetting sons and daughters, have a basis
inscientific fact. Ages of 700, 800, 1000 years, were not at all un­
common nor scientifically impossible.
Under the vast water canopy, in atmosphere warmed by heat from the
igneousearth and protected from interstellar cold by this ceiling ocean,
plants also grew to prodigious size as they would grow under similar
conditions in any greenhouse of the present. We know of the age of
themammoth horsehair ferns and other forms of vegetation that now
furnishus with so much controversy about the origin of our coal beds.
They were not exposed to the actinic rays of direct sunlight which
wouldhave killed them off; but by the same token the sun’s activating
rays could not reach them to make them fructify every year and re­
produce their species. They grew and grew until they died of sheer
inability to draw sustenance by the capillary process up from their
roots—or from terrain cataclysms and inundations.
Speaking of the prodigious size of man in those far-off times, we
recall that the Bible itself attests that “there were giants in the earth
inthose days.’’ And indeed, why not? Greek mythology refers to a
race of Titans, people of prodigious growth, with a single eye in the
centerof their foreheads. Can such a report not be reference to those
days when the pineal gland was located in the center of the forehead
and not sunken back into the brain to be utilized psychically as it is
today? We are told in our Scripts that a race once inhabited, the
earth with double-jointed limbs, rendering it able to locomote back­
wardwith equal ease as emergency might require for the preservation
of life. Instead of present methods of procreation, fertilization was
effected in the same manner as with present reptiles. Females laid
atype of eggs upon the sand, which the males came along later and
m
ade quick with life.
That such people existed, however, is neither mythology nor necro­
mancy. Skeletons of men 18 feet in height have been unearthed
fromthe substrata in the vicinity of Lake Titicaca in South America.
Right here in the vicinity of Asheville, on Elk Mountain, there is a
21
series of human footprints imbedded in metamorphic rock, called the
Devil’s Footprints. They appear to be prints of perfectly formed
human feet, three feet in length from heel to toe. But there is noth­
ing especially wonderful about them. Back in pre-Cambrian times
under the water veil, when the Elk Mountain rock was sedimentary
slime uncongealed by silica, one of the giant men had merely walked
across a mud-flat, leaving his footprints in the ooze behind him. Ages
later this slime had become solid rock.
It should be kept constantly in mind that early ice ages were of much
shorter duration than they would be at present, because of the green­
house roof that kept the earth’s heat confined. The bergs would be
quicker to feel the equatorial warmth. By the same token the human
species undoubtedly did go naked, as the Bible reports concerning
Adam and Eve. Man had to go naked, because the atmosphere would
have been insufferable to him encased in clothes no matter how prim­
itive. tp
The Garden of Eden narrative is therefore not so much an allegorical
story as a geological story. By “Adam” was not meant one puny lit­
tle mortal walking in a literal garden. The word Adam is our way
of spelling and pronouncing A-Dom, which is a word come down to
us from the Lemurian civilization and indicating “race of men from
the red earth.”
|S we shall see in a subsequent lecture, the service rendered
us by philology, or the study of languages, in tracing
down the literal facts behind the folklore of the ages, is
tremendous. Take the prefix “arch” as an example. W
e
find the words Archaeology, Archaic, Arch-tic or arctic,
even such a noun as Archbishop; “arch” implying "first"
or beginning of things. Now these words all come from the Greek, as
the layman is aware. And they are built up from the construction
term of the arch. Why should a builder’s form, the arch, be ap
plied to all “first” forms even in abstract language?
The mystery is solved when we accept the water-canopy explanation
of what primordial man beheld in the North. All the above-men­
tioned words are derived from the Greek “archas,” the primitive mean­
ing of which is indubitably “of the arch.” The scholars translate
it “in the beginning” ; but this does not portray the great fact that in
the day of concrete thought the “beginning” was a thing visible in
space. Humanity saw the primeval Beginning as the first glimpseit
22
r
got of the true and h idden h e a v en s o u t through the polar Star Hole.
The really naked s k y w a s a little th in g th a t p o se d am on g the arches
that reached to n o rth w a rd ; in o th e r w o rd s, the serried rings o f the
water canopy slopin g n o rth w a rd u n til th e y en d ed in a portion o f sky
directly over the poles, d e v o id o f a n y co verin g . W e w ill find in the
oldest m ythic annals th e v e r y “b a n d s” or “p o rtio n s” that consti­
tuted the C anopy o f th e ea rliest c iv ilize d races. W e w ill find how
hese portions broke a w a y from the main b o d y o f a rapidly moving
anopy and posed in th e northern s k y as v a st sun-illumined arches,
nd that man actually b eh eld them and gave them names to be rescued
om the forgotten past. W e shall find how the human race actually
w these shining arches drop in vap ory streams to the earth,
the 26th chapter of the B ook o f Job, the 7th verse, we read: He
etcheth out the North over em pty space. For “ empty space” the
thorized version gives “ em pty place,” a veritable opening in the
rthern skies. From this it is ve ry plain that the penman of Job was
miliar with a polar picture that does not n ow exist,
gives us license to conclude that w e h ave here a mental picturization
the canopy processes w hich w ere all-competent to make a tropic
nth and also to freeze it w ith the cold brought down from Space, to
iluge it with falling oceans of w ater carrying life-form s in their own
ight, and to leave vast lingering vap or rem nants for the gaze of Man.
23
