{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n18_our_religious_heritage_from_atlantis.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N18 Our Religious Heritage From Atlantis","mylang":"de"}
The Eighteenth of
The
GALAHAD
LECTURES
9
M ' V - . "
j r g n
m i l
i x C i M
-• ■ / . ' <
“Our Religious Heritage
from Atlantis”
B E IN G T H E E IG H T E E N T H O F
The Galahad Lectures
HE G A L A H A D LE C TU R E S constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric H istory of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first form s of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantem and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
([ These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Sum m er School held in
dsheville, N. C., in the sum m er of 19 32 and have been recorded
and preserved in this form for students of'the Foundation Fel­
lowship. C The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of M etaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in M ortality and for accurate
knowledge of the soul's enhancem ents in octaves higher than
those of earth.
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BY PELLEY
PUBLISHERS OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA i f POST OFFICE BOX 2630
SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE LIBERATION
SCRIPTS i f ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR i f ONE
HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE IN­
STRUCTION TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY i f
«O
urReligious Heritage from Atlantis"
THE EIGHTEENTH LECTURE
TRANGELY enough, the reconstructon of
Atlantis in its ethical as well as its religious
aspects seems to begin with the geological, or
at least the geographical features of this long-
perished island continent. Probably never
again in the history of the earth, unless Old
Atlantis itself should suddenly rise again from
the waves, will there be a geographical dupli­
cate of this unique country. Its location mid­
way between the New World and the Old
not only bound the two hemispheres together
b
u
tgavea centrality to their activities. And in addition to this novel
situation, the country itself offered physical features enhancing its so­
c
ia
ldominance throughout all the world.
F
ro
mtraces of erosion still evident on the ocean’s bottom, which could
o
n
lyhave been made while the land was above the surface of the
w
aves, and from fabled, mythical, and psychical accounts, it is not at
a
lldifficult to establish the contours of this remarkable land, some­
th
in
gof the appearance of its terrain, the location of many of its
principal cities, and the ethical, political and religious nature of its
so
ciallife, ip i p
W
eare told from psychical sources, not commonly accredited but
w
h
ichI mention for what the information seems to be worth, that
th
eoriginal island continent ages ago stretched from a point just
so
u
thof Iceland, in a southwesterly direction down to a point oppo­
sitePara and Rio de Janeiro in Brazil, South America. This would
tavethe effect of giving the continent the shape of a gigantic figure
3
W
E
A
N3 / ’4f
S. W e k n ow that both the D olphin and Challenger Ridges, far down
under the sea at the present m om en t, sh o w this colossal curve.
From all the data w e can get hold of, how ever, it seem s reasonable
to accredit that over vast periods o f tim e the land in both the extreme
north and the extrem e south portions o f A tlantis began to be inun­
dated. T h e areas from a point just north o f the British Isles, and
just south o f Iceland, began to sink; gradually also the southern tip
o f the con tin en t began to break off. In its prim e, therefore, we be­
hold A tlan tis as an area just a trifle bigger than the U nited States, ex­
tending as far northw ard as a line draw n across from St. Johns,
N ew fou n dland , to Paris, France, for if you w ill refer to a map of the
w orld you w ill see that these tw o cities lie in the sam e latitude. The
southern extrem ity o f A tlan tis ran dow n to an east-and-w est line from
the present m outh o f the A m azon , to Liberia in W est A frica.
T his great area, so outlined, w ou ld have the present A zores for its
heart, although a trifle off-center tow ard the east. It w ould also take
in the C anary, M adeira and C ape V erde Islands sis they are today,
these islands being at on e tim e the highest m ountain peaks on the
A tlantean continent. A n oth er range o f A tlantean m ountains in the
sou th w est w ould also be indicated b y the W est Indies o f the present,
o f w hich the V irgin Islands are the outstanding features.
N o w all authorities agree, and their con viction s w ould seem to be sup­
ported b y the undersea explorings and chartings already mentioned,
that A tlantis in its prim e, or the period just prior to the catastrophe,
held tw o other features rendering it distinctive and contributing to its
w orld-w ide pow er and prestige. T he first o f these w as the protec­
tive range o f east-and-w est m ountains along the northern coastline.
T he second w as the im m ense m ountain that reared in the very heart
o f A tlantis som ew here in the vicinity o f the present A zores, which
form ed the hub o f the A tlantean w h eel and m arked the location of
the social, political and religious center o f w orld-w ide government.
T h ese tw o features w ou id seem to be alm ost d ivin e in their signifi
cance, m aking A tlantis the trem endous kingdom that it w as, not od
geographically but in the hearts and m inds o f all races o f then ex
ing hum ankind.
In the first place, the protective barrier o f m ountains on the r
gave A tlantis its m arvelous clim ate, in that th ey shut out the
blasts from the A tlantean plain and con verted alm ost the whe
tinent into an E lysium for the d evelop m en t o f the biological
cial life that m anifested upon it. In the second place, the gre
4
heart of Atlantis, commanding the whole central portion of
$ ^tlafltean P^a^
n*°®ere<^ an ideal s^e for the erection of its capital
ufA f0jng city. And the significance of the latter appears every-
^^jjroughoiit ancient mythology and in all the evidence which
t0 light corroborating the centralized civilization forming the
jon on which all later civilizations were built,
f^^jjdered in a former lecture the Atlantean wisdom that main-
( b jnregard to the destructive potentialities of the earth’s surface,
^^lanteans knew that the earth’s crust consisted of a vast surface
Prisms held together either by lateral pressure on the sides in the
of a natural arch, or resting on fiery or molten substrata that
for*
fro
m
,ents
th
e
ir
in
1
time to time were readjusted by means of earthquake move-
Consequently they recognized that the safest locations for
cities were those sites on hillsides or mountain elevations, since
a^had been made originally by the prisms of the earth’s crust being
^
ovedupand falling back into natural arches. Thereafter, the more
shaking the crust strata received, the harder they crammed together
andthe more solid they became as foundation material.
Bearing this fact in mind, we can understand how the central govern­
in
gcity of Atlantis is reputed to have existed for 300,000 to 500,000
years. So astute was this Atlantean architectural wisdom, that only
acataclysmthat sank the whole continent was able to obliterate that
civilization. We shall see presently what a stupendous influence this
m
ountain-city, with its ideal climate and location, exerted on the cul­
tu
r
ethathas subsequently come down to us as the Atlantean.
scERE, then, was a great island continent whose eastern
terminal, the City of the Golden Gate, was just a few
hundred miles west of the Pillars of Hercules— of which
the one to the north is now known as Gibraltar—and
the Mediterranean, and which stretched westward for
nearly 3,000 miles until its western extremity almost
touched what is now the eastern coast of the United States of Amer­
ica. Over most of this vast area the land was as flat as our Midwest
prairie section, and its climate was similar to that of the Bahama Is­
lands of the present. Such a climate was assured, not alone by the
protective mountain barrier on the northern shoreline but from the
circular motion of the Gulf Stream coming up from the Equator, a
circular river flowing in the ocean, that apparently encompassed the
whole island continent with its freight of tropical temperature and
converted this ocean-bound area into the original Garden of the
Hesperides. Small wonder that it subsequently became known to the
Greeks as ‘ The Blessed Isle of the W est.”
The Greeks, too young to have shared in the religion of Atlantis, but
preserving some memory of that great country and its history, pro­
ceeded to convert its kings into gods and to depict Atlantis itself as the
heaven of the human race. Thus we find a great solar or nature wor­
ship in the older nations, while the folklore of Greece is nothing but
an incongruous jumble of gods and goddesses w ho were bom and
ate and drank and made love and ravished and stole and died, and
who are worshiped as immortal in the presence of the very monu­
ments that attest their death.
The history of Atlantis is the key to the Greek m ythology l There
can be no question that these gods of Greece w ere hum an beings. The
tendency to attach divine attributes to great earthly rulers is one deep­
ly implanted in human nature. The savages w ho killed Captain Cook
firmly believed that he was an immortal, that he w as yet alive and
would return to punish them. The highly civilized Romans made
gods of their dead emperors. Dr. Livingstone m entions that on one
occasion, after talking to a Bushman for som e tim e about the Deity
he found that the savage thought he w as speaking of Sekomi, the
principal chief of the district.
So w e find the barbarians of the shores of the Mediterranean regard­
ing the civilized people of Atlantis w ith aw e and w onder. ‘‘Their
physical strength was extraordinary, the earth shaking sometimes un­
der their tread. W hatever they did w as done speedily. They moved
6
f j
i
I
/
/
1
fl
[I
n
5
D
$
tH
\
*
V
I
fc.
t
r almost w ith ou t the lo ss o f a m o m en t o f tim e.” T h is
9l*[crred either to th eir ad ep t m etap sych ical attributes, or
fote-j motion of their aircraft or sailing: v essels. “ T h ey w ere w ise ,”
j jegend goes on, “and co m m u n ica ted their w isd o m to m e n .”
^e9fl-Clto say, civilized the p eo p les w ith w h o m th ey cam e into
fha*1
9 "T'hey had a strict sen se o f ju stice an d p u n ish ed crim e vigor-
fO
*
1
,tact t ^warded noble a ctio n s, th o u g h it is tru e th e y w ere less
^ cuous for the latter.” AVe sh o u ld u n d erstan d this to m ean that
f^^they colonized th ey estab lish ed a g o v e r n m e n t o f law , as contra-
^■auished from the anarchy o f barbarism .
^ther proof that the god s o f th e G re ek s w e r e b u t th e d eified k in g s
f Atlantis is found in the fa ct th at “ th e g o d s w e r e n o t lo o k ed u p o n
othaving created the w o rld .” T h e y su c c e e d e d to th e m a n a g e m en t o f
worWalready in existen ce.
gods dwelt upon O ly m p u s. T h e y liv e d to g e th e r lik e h u m a n b e-
They possessed p alaces, sto r e h o u se s, sta b le s, h o rses an d d om ea-
•
canimals. “T hey d w elt in a so c ia l sta te th a t w a s b u t a m a g n ified
Ejection of the social sy ste m o n ea rth . Q u a rrels, lo v e p a ssa g e s,
m
utual assistance, taking sid es w ith frie n d s a s a g a in st c o m m o n e n e ­
m
ies, and such instances as ch a ra cterize h u m a n life , w e r e a scrib ed to
them." t *
Now where was Olym pus ? T h e average p erson gets the idea that
because there is a M ount O lym p us in m odern G reece, this w as the
dwelling-place of the gods referred to in all an cien t m yth ology. B ut
howdistinguish this particular m ou n tain , w h ich in reality is n oth in g
m
orethan a good-sized hill, from so m eth in g like a d ozen other m ou n ­
tain
s, also called O lym pus from old en tim es, in other parts o f A sia
M
inor? ijr j#
Isit not nearer the truth to a llo w for a m o m en t that th e original
O
lym
pus must have been th e great C ap ital-M ou n tain in th e heart o f
the island continent o f A tlan tis? W e find it th u s set forth b y an
ancient writer: “The ocean en circled th e earth w ith a great stream ,
a
n
dwas a region of w onders o f all k in d s.’’ M ig h tn ’t th is h a v e re­
ferredspecifically to the G u lf S tream , th e o cean -stream en circlin g
that particular portion o f the earth ascrib ed as th e lo ca tio n o f A tla n tis
tothisday? It was a great islan d , th e th e n civ iliz e d w o rld . T h e “e n ­
circling ocean” was b esp oken in all th e a n cie n t le g e n d s. “ O k e o n o s
livedthere with his w ife T e th y s: th e se w e r e th e Islan d s o f th e B lessed ,
th
egarden of the gods, th e so u rces o f n e c ta r a n d a m b ro sia o n w h ich
the gods lived.” Nectar w a s p ro b a b ly a fe r m e n te d in to x ic a tin g liq u or,
:.7
and ambrosia was bread made from wheat. Soma was a kind
whisky, and the Hindus deified it. “The gods lived on nectar ~
ambrosia,” simply meant that the inhabitants of these Blessed UUtM
k
were civilized, and possessed a liquor of some kind and a species 0{
%
*
f
'food superior to anything in use among the barbarous tribes
whom they came in contact.
This “blessed” land answers to the description of Atlantis. It was an
island full of wonders. It lay spread out in the ocean “like a disc, witk
the m ountains rising from it.” On the highest peak of these moun-
tains dwelt Zeus, the king. Zeus is simply a synonym for king. “The
m ansions of the other deities were arranged upon plateaus, or in
ravines lower down on the mountain. These deities, including Zeus,
were tw elve in number: Zeus, or Jupiter; Hera, or Juno; Poseidon,
or N eptune; Demeter, or Ceres; Apollo, or Artemus; Hephaestus, or
V ulcan; Paillas Athena, or Minerva; Ares, or Mars; Aphrodite, or
V enus; Herm es, or Mercury; and Hesta, or Vesta. With Diana,
tljese m ake twelve in number. These were doubtless the twelve gods
and goddesses from w hom the Egyptians derived their kings, as we
shall see w hen w e com e to a consideration of early Egyptology. where
two nam es are given to a deity in the above list, the first name is that
bestow ed by the Greeks, the last that given by the Romans.
It is not impossible that our division of the year into twelve parts is
a reminiscence of the twelve gods of Atlantis. Diodorus Siculus tells
us that among the Babylonians there were twelve gods of the heav­
ens, each represented by one of the twelve signs of the zodiac and
worshiped in a certain month of the year. The Hindus had twelve
primal gods, “the Adita.” Moses erected twelve pillars at Sinai. The
Mandan Indians celebrated the Flood with twelve typical characters,
who danced about the Ark. The Scandinavians believed in the twelve
gods, the Aesir, who dwelt on Asgard, the Norse Olympus. Diligent
investigation may yet reveal that the number of persons composing
a m odem jury, is a survival, or symbol, of the council of twelve gods
passing on the quarrels and affairs of men.
N ow com ing back to the geographical features of Atlantis, we find
that according to the traditions of the Phoenicians, “the Gardens of
the Hesperides were in the remote west.” Atlas lived in those Gar­
dens, A tlas, as w e have seen, being the paternal king of Atlantis. The
Eiysian Fields, or the Happy Islands, were commonly placed in the
rem ote w est. They were ruled over by Cronus as supreme king. Tar­
tarus, the region of Hades, the gloomy home of the dead, was also lo-
8
/j
O
f
V.
$
p
li
••under the mountains of an island in the midst of the ocean in
c
*
ie
<
ijnote west. Atlas was described in Greek mythology as "an
jje Q
U
agiant who stood upon the western confines of the earth and |
farted the heavens on his shoulders, in a region of the west where
itip
P
0 continued to shine after it had set upon Greece.” And is this
■ of Atlas so chimerical, when we remember that ancient At-
jjj support the weight of the civilized world upon its social, po-
•*
1and theological shoulders ?
tradition located the island in which Olympus was situated, "in
^far west,” in the ocean beyond Africa, "on the western boundary
nhe known world," "where the sun shone when it had ceased to
j,ne upon Greece.” And Plato tells us that the land where Poseidon
jAtlasrlded
» was Atlantis. The Garden of the Hesperides, another
for the dwelling-place of the gods, was situated "at the extreme
i °{Africa." Atlas was said to have surrounded it on every side
lith high mountains.
1 ^ 3 jgvery much like the description which Plato gives of the great
Jain of Atlantis, covered with trees of fruits of every kind, and sur-
fundedby precipitous mountains descending to the sea
ytitjedby precipitous mountains descending to the sea. The Greek
ythology, in speaking of the Garden of the Hesperides, tells us that
“
fa outer edge of the garden was slightly raised, so that the water
„
jit not run in and overflow the land.”
iv-
tid
it
le
]S IT not surpassing strange, as well as ironical and a trifle
pathetic, that modern scholars, considering themselves
so wondrously erudite and drawing large salaries from
our modern universities for imparting expert knowledge
on these ancient matters to the young, should so grandi­
osely ignore all this testimony, and smugly declare in
their childish ignorance that these wonders of terrain and horticulture
w
e
reall features of ancient Greece as we now commonly recognize
it) There is not now one vestige of terrain in Greece that in the
slightestmanner approximates what we are presented with, richly, in
m
ythology. On the other hand, Atlantis, as we are called to recon-
structit, supplies every item of the description, even the land itself as
m
odemengineering explores it beneath the waves of the green At-
W
c. Isit not about time that w e broke away from the silly accept­
a
n
c
e
softhese modern authorities and explored the true history of the
w
o
r
ldinthe light of advanced testim ony?
| 9
Cronus or Saturn, Dionysus, Hyperion, Atlas, Hercules, were all con­
nected with a great Saturnian continent. They were kings that ruled
over countries on the western shores of the Mediterranean, Africa,
and Spain. Our college students of classical literature today are all
solemnly asked to accept that they were nothing of the sort, but
mythical personages ruling over eastern countries and areas, all now
designated as figments of human imagination.
One account says: “Hyperion, Atlas, Saturn, or Chronos, were sons
of L/ranos, who ruled over a great kingdom composed of countries
around the western part of the Mediterranean, with certain islands
in the A tlantic.” What countries in the western Mediterranean? We
find no mention of them in the legends of northern Africa or southern
Spain. W hat islands in the Atlantic? Folklore of the Canaries or
the Azores is strangely silent about these personages that were strictly
local creations of the peoples of the eastern countries.
The m ythologies go on to state that: “Hyperion succeeded his father,
and was then killed by the Titans. The kingdom was then divided
between A tlas and Saturn. A tlas took northern Africa, with the At­
lantic islands. Saturn took the countries on the opposite shore of the
Mediterranean, to Italy and Sicily.
Plato says, speaking of the traditions of the Greeks: “There is a tra­
dition of the happy life of mankind in the days when all things were
spontaneous and plentiful. . . . In like manner God in His love of
humankind placed over us the demons, who are a superior race, and
they, with great care and pleasure to themselves and no less to us,
taking care of us and giving us peace and reverence and order and jus­
tice never-failing, made the tribes of men happy and peaceful . . for
Chronos knew that no human nature, invested with supreme power,
is able to order human affairs and not overflow with insolence and
wrong.” Quite an indictment of Stalin and Mussolini, by the way.
In other words, this tradition refers to an ancient time when the fore­
fathers of the Greeks were governed by Chronos or Cronus, of the
Cronian Sea— the Atlantic— king of Atlantis, through civilized At-
lantean sovereigns or governors, who by their wisdom preserved peace
and created a Golden Age for all the populations under their control.
They w ere the demons, or, literally translated, “the knowing ones,"
the civilized. Only in recent times has the designation “demons”
been applied to diabolical creatures of the Plutonian world. What a
load of error, misrepresentation and spiritual concernment might have
been avoided if that poetic mischief-maker Dante had never been born.
10
pjention Milton who scurried along in his footsteps, poetically
t of his Inquisitional wits.
ft1
*
LATO puts into the mouth of Socrates these words: “My
notion would be that the sun, moon, and stars, earth and
heaven, which are still the gods of many barbarians,
were the only gods known to the aboriginal Hellenes.
What shall follow the gods? Must not demons and
heroes and men come next ? Consider the real meaning
fth
eword Demons. You know Hesoid uses the word. He speaks
f 'agolden race of men who came first.’ He means by the golden
^ 1!not men literally made of gold, but good and noble men. He
sa
y
sthat we are of the age of iron. He called them demons because
they w
ere ‘knowing’ or wise.’’
fh
isis made the more evident when we read that this region of the
g
o
d
s,ofCronus, and Uranus, and Zeus, passed through first a Golden
/\g
e, then a Silver Age— these constituting a period of great peace
a
n
dhappiness—then it reached a Copper and' a Bronze Age, then an
ir
o
nAge, and finally perished by a great flood, sent upon them by
Z
e
u
sasapunishment for their sins.
Itisrem
arkable that we find here the same succession of the Iron Age
after theBronze and Copper Ages, that has been revealed to scientific
m
e
nbythe patient examination of the relics of antiquity in Europe.
And this identification of a land that w as destroyed by a flood— the
land of Cronus and Poseidon and Zeus— with the Bronze Age, con-
fir
m
stheview expressed in our previous lectures, that the bronze im-
em
en
tsandweapons of Europe were mainly imported from Atlantis.
piatius Donnelly says, m ay w e not even suppose that the very
word Olympus is a transformation from Atlantis, in accordance with
the laws that regulate the changes of letters of the same class into
e
a
c
hother? Olympus was written by the Greeks “Olum pos.” The
letter "a"in Atlantis was sounded by the ancient world broad and
h
ill,likethe "a” in all or altar. In these words it approximates very
nearly tothe sound of “o.” It is not far to go to convert Otlontis into
O
lu
n
to
s, and this into Olumpos. W e m ay, therefore, suppose that
w
h
e
ntheir gods were said to dwell in “O lym pus,” by the Greeks, it
w
a
sth
esame as if they had said that they dw elt in A tlantis.
N
e
a
rlyall of the gods o f Greece w ere connected w ith Atlantis. W e
h
a
v
eseen the twelve principal gods all dw elling on the m ountain of
O
ly
m
p
u
s, in the midst of an island in the ocean in the remote west,
1
1
which was subsequently destroyed by a deluge because of the wicked­
ness of its people. And when we turn to Plato’s description of At­
lantis, we find that Poseidon and Atlas dwelt upon a mountain in
the midst of this island, and on this mountain there were magnificent
temples and palaces where they lived, separated by great walls from
their subjects.
It may be urged that “Mount Olympus” could not have referred to any
mountain in Atlantis, because the Greeks gave that name to a group of
mountains partly in Macedonia and partly in Thessaly. But in Mysia,
Cyprus, and elsewhere, there were mountains called Olympus, and on
the plain of Olympia in Elis there was an eminence bearing the same
designation. There is a natural tendency among uncivilized peoples
to ascribe a local habitation to every general tradition.
The mythology of Greece is really a history of the kings of Atlantis.
The Greek heaven was Atlantis. Hence the reference to statues,
swords, and other objects that “fell from heaven,” which were pre­
served in the temples of the different states along the shores of the
Mediterranean from vast antiquity, and which were regarded as the
most precious possessions of the people. They were relics of the lost
race, received in the early ages. Thus w e read of the brazen or bronze
anvil that was preserved in one city, which fell from heaven, and was
nine days and nine nights in falling. In other words, it took nine
days and nights of a sailing voyage to bring it from Atlantis.
The modern theory that the gods of Greece never had any personal
existence, but represented atmospheric and meteorological myths, the
movements of clouds, planets, or the sun, is childishly absurd. Rude
nations repeat, they do not invent! To suppose that a barbarous peo­
ple create their deities out of clouds and sunsets is to reverse nature.
Men first worship stones, then other men, then spiritual manifesta­
tions of men, probably discarnate personalities whom we are just be­
ginning to interpret in advanced Metapsychics. Resemblances of
names prove nothing. It is as if one would show that the name of the
great Napoleon meant “the lion of the desert” (Napo-leon) and should
thence argue that Napoleon never existed, that he was a myth, that
he represented power in solitude, or some such nonsense.
W hen w e read that Jove whipped his w ife, and threw her son out of
the window, the inference is that Jove was a man and actually did
som ething like the thing described. Certainly gods, sublimated spir­
its, aerial sprites, do not act after this fashion. And it should puzzle
the mythmakers to prove that the sun, m oon or stars trounced their
1
2
1
o
>
*
1
*
% *
heaved their recalcitrant offspring out of open apertures in
of Atlantis could be in part reconstructed out of the
■
jjjc jogy of Greece. It is a history of kings, queens, and princes,
flaking, adulteries, rebellions, wars, murders, sea voyages,
i i0nizations, of palaces, temples, workshops and forges, of
^makiHg’ en8ravin8 and metallurgy, of wine, barley, wheat,
s l sheep, horses and agriculture generally.
candoubt that it represents the real history of a real but per-
Jiedpe°P
^
e^
o.twhat was their country like, their social customs, their religion?
JNthe center of this island kingdom in the north Atlantic,
we find a tremendous Capitol Hill, on which, or from
which, a long line of princes ruled by some sort of super­
human power, the old presentation of regality ordering
from a height. Bearing in mind that this power first
came from priestly contemplation of the heavens, we
jlio
u
ldexpect to find and consistently we do find the very summit of
th
a
tstupendous capital given over to the Seers, or those who “saw”
h
ydivining the movements of the heavenly bodies, and dwelling in
so
lita
rycontemplation above the frets and worries of little human
h
e
in
g
s. In the beginning, we should expect to see the high priests
andthekings united in the one august personage. But in later times
w
efin
dthekings slightly demoted. The priests or Seers are still on the
sum
m
it. The king has become a sort of political figure just one step
lo
w
e
r. M
ussolini, running the Italian nation as dictator so long as he
k
e
e
p
sK
ingEmmanuel on the throne, is not a far-fetched comparison
tow
h
atm
ust have gone on as Atlantis began its decline.
A
n
drighthere I desire to call attention to one of the most important
a
s
p
e
c
tsof our whole instruction as having vital significance to these
h
e
c
ticm
odern times and the racial and religious problems which they
p
re
se
n
t. W
e have in our midst, though scattered over the whole
e
a
rth
,apeculiar people called Hebrews. Openly they proclaim their
in
e
v
ita
b
lesuccession to world dominion. Our modern Christian re­
lig
io
nisbased on the peculiar, bizarre, and not a little mischievous
th
e
o
lo
g
yofthese people. They move in civilized society, trading on
th
e
irpow
er of the purse to rise superior to reactive persecution
a
n
doppression, secure in the psychological fixation that they are the
C
h
o
se
nPeople of the earth, specially favored by the Almighty above
13
all other races. It is from the Hebrews that we get the very funda-
mentals of our Christianity, and no good religionist will deny them
this unique position among the races of mankind 1 So firmly fixed in
the consciousness of the human race, particularly in the western
world, is this megalomaniacal idea and insolent assumption, that no
matter what they do, or what social, political or commercial advan­
tages they seize, they are excused as being inviolable to any sort of real
reprimand, human or divine.
What the non-Semitic people of the world do not know, as we shall
examine in its proper place under the rise and fall of the Egyptian
dynasties, is that the ultimate state of world society to which the
Hebrews aspire, is a form of social organization that returns mankind
to the Atlantean classification of caste groups, all political, ethical and
commercial leaders being subordinated to the High Priest or at least
the priestly classes. Kings are not desired, merchant princes are not
desired, great ethical culturists are not desired, except as they acknowl­
edge and acquiesce to the High Priest sovereignty, as well as sustain
it in office.
Remember that we are looking at this mighty subject in the purely
clinical way, devoid of all race prejudice, as social scientists seeking
explanation of the peculiar days on which humanity has fallen. When
we come to a thorough study of Hebrew-ism in all its ramifications,
ancient and modern, as well as a study of other great religious and
ethnological influences aggressively abroad in the world, we shall see
that this desire for a return to the Atlantean order influenced fourteen
hundred years of Hebrew aggression in Canaan, resulting in the ulti­
mate subjection of Jerusalem. Furthermore, this insistence on all
forms of political and ethical government’s being subservient to the
high priests, wrought bloody page after bloody page in a thousand
years of trans-Jordanian history prior to the advent of Christ, andhad
more than all else to do with the Hebrews’ denying Christ as the true
Messiah, precipitating the clash of theological factors and the perse­
cutions of the Christians that followed in the centuries after Christ.
Here is an amazing page in human history that is kept more or less
secret from the lay student or the orthodox Christian. We shall see
in its proper place that the Hebrews as a race were originally a sect or
caste of what has been designated “Atlantean incorrigibles,” whow
ere
exiled from Atlantis because of their refusal to abide by the kingly
decrees for the good of the whole people, and who migrated, or w
ere
sent under force of arms, to Nilia to work at the most menial of tasks
1
4
■order to discipline them. Considering themselves a race and a peo-
j capart from all the rest of the human species, amenable to few laws
Sat governed the rest of humankind in the social organization, ob-
jgjsed with the phenomenal complex that they were the world’s
juperior people, and that Jehovah had ordained them to restore the
ancient order of things, even fighting with them against the rest of His
hum
an creations, protecting, forgiving and expanding them no matter
w
hattheirsocial or ethical sins, they come howling down the corridors
ofuniversal history as the mightiest influential factors in our spiritual
lives of the present.
HEN we pause to consider, therefore, what Atlantis con­
tributed to modern religion, we get a clear line of evolu­
tion of the Atlantean principles forming the substrata
of our spiritual dogma as we recognize it and permit it
to control us at this present moment in the twentieth
century after the Galilean. <| The Golden Age of the
avatars in Atlantis gave the Egyptians their political structure. The
H
ebrews in Egypt perpetuated the form, but not the essence, of the
spiritual casting of the people. They fought consistently for 1,440
years before Christ, and have been militantly active for 1,938 years
since, a total of 3,378 years in all, to restore the lost social order, of
coursewith their particular high priests in charge of mankind and all
earthly potentates subservient to them.
W
eshall see in its proper place, backed by irrefutable evidence which
w
illbe submitted to you, that all the Hebrew kings of the Old Testa­
m
entwere heralded and given homage not as potentates in their own
righ
tsomuch as military sponsors of the high priests of the Sanhedrin.
IfC
hrist had come as a military conqueror, a Jewish Caesar, with tens
ofthousands of soldiers at His back, avowedly intent on buttressing
th
epowers of the priests. H e would have been warmly welcomed by
th
ewhole of Israel. In fact it w as that type of Messiah for whom
Israelwas watching and waiting. It wanted no nonresistant religious
philosopher, who healed the sick and castigated the Sadducees. And
today the squabble goes on, after nineteen centuries of attempting
“
todespoil the Egyptian” on the one hand and frightful pogroms on
th
eother. £?
T
he supreme battle of Christianity to endure, therefore, is not the
dissensionbetween the Papacy and Protestantism, bad as that is, also.
T
hesupreme tussle, little realized b y the masses, comes between these
1
5
ancient Atlantean formalists and the modern disciples of the Man of
Sorrows who deem it far more the mark of superiority to go about
doing good. Let us remember this well. W e are merely beginning to
get into our exemplification of the true significance of Christian eco­
nomics when w e understand the heritage of cultural forms that has
come down to us direct from Atlantis. It isn’t a question of what
Atlantis contributed to modern religion, so much as a question of how
much Atlantean religion w e are letting influence us today. However,
to get back to the social and civic structure of the Lost Continent. . . .
The badly hashed and rule-of-thumb compiled account of the Garden
of Eden mentions four rivers that went out in four geographical direc­
tions and watered all the land. Because one of these was called the
Euphrates, the average person gains the idea that this watering busi­
ness must have proceeded out of Mesopotamia, and that the Biblical
river known as the Euphrates must have been the same one that we
call the Euphrates at present. O f course, when we look about for the
other three rivers of queer nam es, w e find them mysteriously missing.
W e excuse this discrepancy b y telling ourselves that they must have
dried up long since. W e ignore the fact that rivers great enough to
be so designated could do nothing of the sort so long as their water­
sheds remained. W e ignore the fact that nowhere else in nature or
the Bible are one-time rivers of first m agnitude thus missing over the
centuries. M any of us ignore the whole association of rivers alto­
gether, and explain aw ay their vanishing act b y telling ourselves that
the w hole w atery layout w as doubtless a figment of mythological
im agination. O r w e say, the nam es of those rivers must have been
changed so that w e no longer recognize them. This in spite of the
absence o f an y four rivers in the O ld W orld going specifically “ in op­
posite directions,” to be so renam ed.
Please note that for four separate rivers to go “ in opposite directions”
they w ould have to flow concurrently north, east, south, west. And
they could not flow concurrently north, east, south, and west, without
proceeding from a com m on source. T h at is to say, they would have
to bubble up like a fountain in the axle hole of a w heel’s hub and go
tum bling in their separate directions, the proper am ount of water be­
ing apportioned to each to m ake it a river. Is there any place on
earth, in tim es ancient or m odern, w h ere w e find such a geological
phenom enon } t j*
Y e s, there is! From the w ritin gs o f the ancient G reek historians and
philosophers, from the m anuscripts in T ibetan monasteries, from
116
, j ' es and folklores, from psychical attestm ents in great detail,
'^informed that out of the m ountain at the Capital in the heart of
tl*
Atlantean plain, issued a m ighty acqueduct-fountain. Its waters
^ so arranged that having been brought under great pressure from
ubarricrranges along the north of the continent, they bubbled under
fjraulicpressure straight up through the core of the Capitol Hill and
evenly divided in volume. They w ere diverted w ith great engi­
ning skill down the steeps of that regal incline into a series of vast
ngedmoats. This great water system furnished w ater for hundreds
^thousands of civilians before it started toward the ocean in four
jgJitystreams flowing in four directions. W atersheds of course aug-
jjje
n
te
dthis volume as each stream m ade its w ay toward the sea. But
^stupendous palace hill itself w as continually m oist from the con-
Ijjtsofits massive circular ducts. A nd the w hole engineering plan
^entally furnished a universal sym bol for the A tlantean royalty
itse
lf, which maintains in m any form s to this day: the circle
josin
gacross of two lines at exact right angles.
m-
[PEAK1NGof Atlantean contributions to modern religion,
howmany of my readers realize that when they buy hot-
cross buns during Lent, they are perpetuating a custom
that is strictly Atlantean and that harks back to a festival
incommemoration of the departed kings of Atlantis who
were also its high priests or sponsors of its high priests,
#
liointurnrepresented the Creator on earth even as His Holiness the
P
o
p
eaffectstodoat present? The word “bun” comes from the philo-
J
o
g
ic
a
lroots “ab” and “un.” Translated literally into English, these
vo
rd
sm
ean 'round thing like the sun.” And across the top of this
ro
u
n
dtilinglike the sun” we or our bakers scratch a cross. Well,
lo
s
eeruditein the ancient lore know that this symbolizes a “round
iin
g
lik
ethesun” that once stood in the center of the vast Atlantean
in
,andthat the cross marked so is but another symbol of the four
msthatproceeded straight north, east, south, west, characterizing
th
epriestlypotentates' dwelling-place in the very middle of earthly
Aation. But what was this “round thing like the sun” ?
bastlie colossal royal palace, or series of royal palaces, built one
d
o
pth
eotheron the aforesaid Atlantean central mountain, that com­
ply allAtlantis, and, by commanding Atlantis, commanded most
Ataown world. This was in truth the original Olympus! Being
to
iM
tru
c
te
dupon a mountain, so that the natural stonework of the
17
elevation w as com pletely concealed, it had the appearance of •
w edding cake, terraced completely to its top with ramps andcaSk*
latter perpetually gushing cool water. Today we know that ah r
a hill, though com pletely covered with buildings, because thosebui£
ings are tiny individual structures, each with i^s own architectural
pattern. B ut the vast A tlantean palace was built of one com
position.
It w as sym m etrical. It was faced with the one material, calledorichal
cum , a light, w eatherproof metal made principally of copper. \\
was, in truth, a copper alloy. And staggering quantities of it must
have been required to cover the walls and ramparts of a structure so
colossal that it capped an entire mountain. That is where those
trem endous quantities of copper went, excavated so mysteriously
from the Lake Superior copper regions here in North America. 1ney
w ent to m ake orichalcum for the walls of one of the most splendid
structures ever executed by the hand of man. Fancy a mountain
standing up on the level floor of an alluvial plain, completely encaf
by a symmetrical palace or series of palaces, and the walls smoot
over from base to summit with irridescent sheets of burnished copper.
W hat a sight to behold from afar, in the dying sunlight of Atlantean
afternoon ! ±t* i f f
Viewing it from afar, or on approaching the palatial city, the spec or
beheld this splendid m ountain with its resplendent walls and great
curved esplanades or terraces, one cut back above the other, and the
whole so constructed that a stupendous fountain cascaded from its
summit with enough water to start four mighty rivers on their ways
toward the sea. As these waters descended, they not only made pro­
tection for the inhabitants dwelling on the higher elevations by the
moats which they provided, but they executed esthetic designs. The
areas were so tremendous that some of these encompassed terraces
could be utilized as immense race courses. Ascending from the lower­
most moat, the first terrace provided a parade ground for the drilling
of troops. The second one seems to have been an esplanade of
pleasure, with circuses, promenades, carnivals and amusement stands,
and shops for the merchants, precisely as they are intermingled on
our streets of today. On the third tier were the private palaces and
residence places for the lesser members of the royal entourage and
the minor princes. Higher still were the palaces of the reigning poten­
tates, council halls and banqueting rooms. The terraces grew smaller
in circumference as the top of the mountain was approached A
finally, on the summit, alone and in solitary dignity, recluses ’t^ U
f t
&
a
i
b
18
out below them, dwelt the priestly classes presided
^ “^ u tterly autocratic High Priest.
°^1 wonder that the racial memories of all peoples turn back to that
Splay of magnificence in the royal city of Atlantis in a golden age
w
henmighty psychic potentates ordered humankind’s affairs and kept
peaceI Small wonder that such a stupendous dwelling-place should
havehoused kings and queens of Atlantis over ten thousand genera­
tions! Made of imperishable orichalcum, or orichalc, set in a climate
w
here erosion and corrosion were minimized as in Egypt of the
present, dynasties might come and dynasties might go, and only a
cataclysmthat engulfed a continent, could erase that mighty epitome
o
fall the ancient arts and wisdoms, from the face of created earthly
things, Jp
A
ndon the far-flung plains in four directions spread the lesser cities,
ham
lets, grazing lands, gardens and vineyards that supported a popu­
lationquite as congested as in any country of the world at present—
peope with skins that were white, yellow, red, brown, black, quite as
eworld is at present, with all the accoutrements of civilization which
w
eenjoy today, plus scores of inventions and conveniences of which
w
ehave not as yet dreamed.
m
r aircraft, as described in the archives of the Tibetan-Lemurian
P^t8*counteracted gravity; they shot to immense heights in the
a
n
*
,ray-driven, and waited for the planet to turn beneath them. Then
theydropped down plummet fashion and with geometrical accuracy,
on an easterly continent, thus covering distances at the rate of the
planet s speed of revolution, about 1,000 miles per hour. For death­
dealinginstruments in war, they had the vrille ray! How do we know?
Because they bequeathed the secret of the vrille ray to the Egyptians,
and as I think l have mentioned in other papers, this vrille ray was
utilized in the king's scepter. When such a scepter or baton was ele­
vated and pointed at a recalcitrant subject, he dropped dead on the
spot. 1 am given to understand that one of these “vrille sticks” re­
poses at the present moment in the basement of the British Museum,
ina hermetically sealed glass case, rescued from the tomb of an early
Egyptian monarch. And so powerful have been its secret potentialities
that it is never handled at present, for fear that it may take life again,
after all the intervening centuries.
Our children at school are taught the hocus-pocus that the Chinese
invented gunpowder and printing; that the compass was invented by
aV netian mariner in the fifteenth century. The ancient hieroglyphic
records declare that the Atlanteans knew gunpowder well
point out in another lecture. They must have had the c^m **M
they could not have navigated the seas in their marvelous ocea*
8
’^
vessels, nor have found their way about the earth, tradfo^S
civilized countries and leaving their coinage and wares behindth*1*
be resurrected in the present. 6
1
1
1to
HE people of Atlantis were more sharply dividedeth
n
o.
logically and vocationally than are the races of thew
orU
today. At the top of the social scale stood the “B
lu
.
Whites.** They might well be called the Nordics ofth
e
ancient world. They were the priests, the kingly a
n
d
political potentates, the scholars, the higher craftsm
en;
in short, the Blue Whites were in every sense the A
tlantean
aristocracy. tp
Next in order came the Red People, the warriors. They have survivors
today in the Indians of our North American continent. They werea
caste of a spiritual development quite on a par with their physical
grandeur. W hen we think of the spiritual development, or grandeur
of character, in Indians like Sitting Bull, Red Jacket, Pontiac, an
d
Brave Heart, their splendid poise and utter fearlessness, we can begin
to understand how Atlantis pushed her culture and civilization to the
utterm ost parts of the planet.
The tradespeople, the manufacturers and the mariners, were mainly
tawny or yellow-skinned races. W e recall them today as the ancient
Phoenicians, and we have remnants of them in such surviving races
as the Semites and the Mongols. We find them leaving Atlantis in
their wonderful craft, laden with the highest types of manufactured
goods, and trading in all quarters of the globe. And the globe did not
mean a few tawdry fen hamlets scattered along the edges of the
continents, by any means. Consider what that world was like,
throughout which they pushed their ventures. We have reports of
300 major cities, in a high rate of civilization, up and down the west
coast of Africa where now none but the bleary-eyed Negro squats on
his haunches before his grass hut. In and about the basin of the
Amazonian Sea were another 300 Carian cities, some of them boast­
ing a million population each. Up the Mississippi in North America
was the Yazoo River, colloquially called among the Indians of our
own day, “the River of Magnificent Ruins.” Where are those cities
today? Where are the ruins that gave the river its name?
20
n another fu n d am en tal o f o u r enlightenm ent at this
Let ** S ? Semites, so-called, as a g reat b ran ch or division o f the
% t' ihe are not the Je w s as w e k n o w them tod ay, exclusively.
are Semites, but the reverse is not always correct. It
T
h
e but a fact 0f nature and ethnology, which is being proven
isfl0
. j tests in Britain, that the Ashkenazic Israelite does not belong
by£ewhite races of the earth but to the yellow. He is a descendant
t0
. . ancient Phoenicians. The ancient Phoenician was a yellow man,
°
( m which race came the Mongol and Chinese in a later generation,
r^e Ashkenazic Jew as we find him throughout Russia and Germany
•8a strange interbreeding of Semitic Caspian—from which the Arab
r
aces are likewise derived—with the Mongol horde of Genghis Khan
and his Tatars that swept down on Europe in the tenth century and
remained to find permanent lodgment in the countries so penetrated.
The true Chinaman is a Lemurian. That is, distinguishing the Canton
Chinaman in the south of China from the Mongol Manchus who built
their empire on the plains of Tatary.
W
esaythe Manchus of the north appear to be strangely differentiated
fromthe southern Chinese, because a study of their skulls and folk­
loredesignates the latter to be the earlier inhabitants of the earth who
migrated from Old Lemuria and took possession of Cambodia, Siam,
Indo-China, and parts of East Africa. Paleo-Alpine stock, we call
themethnologically. Later they pushed up into Tibet. From Tibet
they found their way down upon the fertile plains of the China of
today. The yellow Mongol of the steppes of northern Asia, when
youprobe his craniology, folklore, and language, came from the West.
Hetells an interesting story of having once lived in and around Caspia,
as we call the eastern end of the Mediterranean basin. He was the
yellowPhoenician trader, whose forebears pushed up across Turkestan
andbuilt a later civilization near Urga.
The Phoenicians were a great yellow caste, so proudly admitted in
many of their own ancient writings. They were the traders who took
Atlantean culture to all parts of the earth, leaving engravings of their
Semitic physiognomies as plainly chiseled on the stone monuments
of Central and South America as in Egypt or Samarkand.
Down at the bottom of the social scale were the black men, the
Negroids, then as today the hewers of wood and drawers of water.
Popularly they are designated as the Sons of Ham. But that is another
erroneous compiling of the facts, as we shall see in a subsequent lec­
ture when we arrive at a due consideration of the Flood. The Negro
did not descend from Ham. There are no records outsid 1
Hebraic account of the Flood in the Bible, to show that the blLl* ^
were in the ark with Noah at all. W e of a more scientific laterd ^
well aware that the Flood was not universal. Many parts of the^*
were not submerged by the catastrophic waters. In those part^^
Negroid was preserved as a race unto himself. The true sons of
are the Semites, comprising the Turanians, the Etruscans, the Fiw
the Tatars, the Mongols, the Chinese, and Japanese. The A
rabian,’
who are popularly classed as Semites, or Sons of Shem, admit in
own traditions that they are descended from Ad, the Son of Ham, a^
the tenth chapter of Genesis classes them among the descendants 0f
Ham, calling them Seba, Havilah, and Raamah. Surely no one th
in
k
s
of the Arab as a Negro. W e will go into this question of the disper.
sion of the races more minutely in considering the after effects of th
e
Flood. isf
The significant point for us to remember here is, that the history of
the earth, as far back as we can trace it anthropologically and ethno.
logically, has consistently shown us the exposition of the spiritual
tenet: that the black man starts at the bottom of the racial chart b
e-
cause he absorbs all that life has to give him for his personal benefit,
and contributes or refracts little or nothing toward the advancement
of mankind as a whole. And up through the brown man, the yellow
man, the red man, to the white man, the divisions of the races manifest
consistently in the degree of refraction of culture that makes hum
an
life what it is in any caste wheresoever we perceive it.
There is such a wealth of information to be acquired in probing the
unwritten history of the world, that one stands appalled in the face of
it. There is so much of reality in symbolism, and so much symbolism
in what millions accept as life’s starkest fact, that a veritable lifetime
could be spent and yet not run down all the foundation facts for the
myths which have become sacred tenets and of the truly sacred tenets
that have degenerated into nothing but legends and fetishes.
But one thing we are certain of, the deeper we probe. We are the
direct inheritors of a culture that had its roots in the hoariest antiquity,
and we shall see in studying the true beginnings of Hebrew dogma
and early Christianity, religion in any age is but man’s concept of the
divine, seen through eyes that are wholly human, evolving, not re­
volving, and building slowly into ever greater concepts of grandeur
not of what the Almighty actually may be but as an expanding human
mentality decrees Him as the apex of an Ideal.
22
