{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___seven_minutes_in_eternity.pdf","mytitle":"Seven Minutes In Eternity","mylang":"de"}
SEVEN MINUTES
IN ETERNITY
WITH THE AFTERMATH
,
! ·
~!Y
Williart'f'P~lj~. Pelley
" I
.....I! -
,··. .
;. ·
\ ~
. I
\ ':
t
SEVEN MINUTES
IN ETERNITY
WITH THE AFTERMATH
By
William Dudley Pelley
---- -
SEVEN MINUTES IN ETERNITY
I
JN THE foothills of the Sierra Madre Mountains near Pasa-
dena, California, I formerly owned a bungalow. When I wanted
seclusion in order to complete a knotty job of writing, I laid in
a stock of provisions, bade adieu to acquaintances, motored up
to this hideaway and worked there undisturbed. My only com-
panion was Laska, a mammoth police dog.
I had come by the bungalow through peculiar circumstances.
I .cannot ignore them in the light of what occurred.
My life had been an eventful one. Shortly after my birth in
Lynn, Massachusetts, my father had entered the Methodist min-
istry. He had filled pulpits in North Prescott, New Salem, and
East Templeton. Then the compensations of a country minister
being insufficient to meet the expenses of a growing family, he
had moved to West Gardner, Mass., where he entered newspaper
work. My earliest recollection of a typecase was in climbing
a stool in the office of the Gardner W eekl-y Journal before the
Spanish War and setting up my name in composing-sticks
that were always in demand by much-harassed printers. From
Gardner my father moved his family to Springfield. I went
through the grammar schools in Gardner and Springfield but
after finishing one year in high school he engaged in a manu-
facturing business in Fulton, N. Y., and there I joined him.
I do not propose to intrude an autobiography at the opening of
this article on an epochal experience more than to say that I had
arrived at a strange interlude in my life when I came into pos-
session of the now-famous bungalow.
I was sixteen years old when I joined my father in his north-
ern New York factory making tissue-paper products. Five years
later. on reaching my majority, the business had grown to such
3
a point that I had become General Superintendent of a plant
employing 103 men. When unfriendly elements secured control
of the concern, freezing father and me from its control, I went
into newspaper work. I became feature writer on the Spring-
field (Mass.) Homestead, I was night-man on the Boston Globe
for western Massachusetts, I founded and ran the Chicopee
Journal, I sold this first paper of mine to purchase The Deer-
field Valley Ilimes in Wilmington, Vermont. I sold this second
paper to work for Gov. Frank E. Howe on the Bennington
Banner. While on the Banner, I began writing fiction for the
national magazines. I was making highly profitable strides as
a fiction writer when I bought the St. Johnsbiwy Evening Cale-
,P,onian in St. Johnsbury, Vt.
I had run the Caledonian only a few months when I was
solicited by the sponsors of the Methodist Centenary Movement
to go to the Orient on a layman's survey of Foreign1Missionary
Work. When America entered the war, I got into khaki in the
Far East, becoming a Red-Triangle man with the troops in
Siberia and impromptu consular courier.
The years following the war had not been unprofitable. I had
sold my eastern newspaper interests to go to California and
make motion pictures from many of the 200 magazine stories and
three novels I had produced since leaving the Bennington Banner.
I maqe a score of movies in Hollywood and with a Yankee's
weakness for engaging in any sort of pursuit that promised profit,
I also had interests in a western film magazine, in a chain of
westcoast restau"rants, in a real estate firm, and in an advertising
agency.
What I am getting at is, up to October, 1927, I had traveled
over half the earth, met all sorts and conditions of men, made
and lost several modest fortunes, and reached a point where the
mere making of money or reading my name in print had entirely
lost its zest. I was spiritually tired. The vigilance of business
had begun to pall on me; I felt as if I wanted to get< away from
everything I had ever been or known and spend a year in study
and meditation. I not only wanted to read several shelves of
books that I had never found time to read, but I also wanted to
4
write some books that I never would be permitted to write as
a popular author of modern fiction.
I remember graphicaily the morning in 1927 when I arrived
at my decision. Angered at the petty harassments of business,
I had gotten into my car and driven out toward Beverly Hills.
As I drove moodily, I turned over in my mind what my life had
encompassed up to that moment : little more than an unceasing
struggle for money or acclaim. And the irony was, that I didn't
want either.
I shall have more to say further on in this article concerning
some of my reactions to life that had made me the chap I was
back there in 1927. However, I shall never forget arriving at
the end of a blind road on the far side of Beverly HiIIs and
stopping my car before a sign that read:
BEYOND THIS POINT IMPASSABLE
Go Back!
I stopped my motor and sat staring at the sign. I felt that I
had somehow come to the end of another sort of blind road and
that the signboard held an aIIegorical sigHificance. Sitting in
the California sunshine off there on that abandoned sand-lot that
morning, I cast up an accounting with myself.
Beyond this point impassable! Go back!
I decided that I: would go back. I would go back and divest
myself of all the entangling business alliances that were adding
nothing to my peace of mind, I would get rid of the interests
that were burning up my spiritual vitality and returning me
nothing but doilars. I would stop journeying about America,
get all my personal possessions together and put them permanently
under one roof where I would settle down in the midst of them
and write a few books, not for public consumption, not to pander
to popular markets, but to feed my own soul.
I planned out a wholly different mode of living for the rest of
my life, sitting there in my motorcar that morning. And when
I finally started my engine and swung the machine about, it was
to drive back into Hollywood and proceed to put my decision into
drastic execution.
5
I would get as far away from the fleshpots of Hollywood as
I could and yet remain in contact with such business interests as
I could not wholly dispose of. And to this end, that same after-
noon, I headed the machine across into Pasadena and up toward
Mount Lowe. Somewhere up in the little unpaved byway streets
of the real estate developments that snuggled against the moun-
tain, I felt I would find! that which I sought. And an unerring
sixth sense seemed to be guiding me.
In late afternoon, with the sun dropping below Catalina Island
far out on the west, I turned south from Lake Avenue in Alta-
dena and coasted slowly down Mount Curve Drive. Halfway
down the grade I came upon a quaint little English bungalow,
a story and a half high, set with a garage behind a row of white
birches. It was tenantless, for sale, and open for inspection.
The companion I had with me that afternoon will attest that
as I veered my car up its driveway and came to a halt in the
rear of the premises, I said: "This bungalow is mine! I'm going
to live here just as surely as though all my goods were inside
this house at this moment !"
The presentiment was overwhelming. In some strange way I
seemed to be "remembering forward" ...
I felt as though the house had been built and left there, wait-
ing for me to arrive at my decision of the morning, twenty miles
distant in Beverly Hills.
I was astounded with the ease with which I acquire~ the
premises. Within a week I was ensconced inside it, had begun
to furnish it and collect my various possessions from all over
the country to make it my permanent abiding-place.
I know now that I had reached a crisis in my life, that morning
in Beverly Hills. I know now that there was more than mere
spiritual discontent in my decision to cloister myself for a year
and do the reading and writing I had always wanted to do, pro-
hibited by secular designs upon my time.
So from October to the following May, I kept the familiar
little place as my hideaway and literary workshop. I began the
collection of a library. I acquired my big police dog, Laska,
6
as my solitary companion. During the windy winter of 1927-
1928, we lived there in the structure, slowly making it comfort-
able, subduing the sagebrush and wild poppy in the yard, grading
the land and installing a swimming pool for the summer that
was coming...
I am forced to admit, however, that Laska and I had not
· spent many nights beneath its roof before I noticed that the dog
was ill at ease inside the rooms. She would pace the floors for
half-hours at a time, halting in queer places and cocking her
steel-shell ears at passageways and corners. Once she awakened
suddenly from her place before the hearth in the living-room,
to back away from an invisible something and bring up in a
corner of the library bookshelves. There she sat with head aslant
looking at someone or something that seemed to be actually! inl
the intersection of the shelves! She sat there thumping her tail
on the rug, the hair on her neck uneasy, turning from time to
time to send me a look of perplexity, and whimper. At other
times she would go to the foot of the stairs and give short
worried barks up the flight with both paws resting on the lowest
step.
Had the bungalow been an old house, I might have thought it
haunted. But it was less than six months old and no death had
ever occurred beneath its roof. All the same, night after night
as I lay in bed alone in the upper story at the back, I heard
strange sharp cracks of the boards beneath the stairs as though
someone were stealthily ascending. Laska, asleep at the foot of
the bed at such times, would spring to her feet and rush out
barking. Many a time she would arise, go downstairs in the
dark and eternally pace the length of the living-room.
I never saw anything savoring of the supernatural, however,
and was more interested than frightened at the behavior- of the
dog. Meanwhile I got along with my writing.
HAVING been denied an academic education, I had educated
myself, so to speak, ever since the days with father in the factory,
by reading in bed for two or three hours every night before I
turned off the light. For nearly twenty years I had done this.
7
And my reading had encompassed every solid and substantial
subject imaginable. I had an unaccountable interest in history,
biography, political economy, and ethnology. No matter where
I happened to be, or what the nature of my daily activities, I
crammed interminably but without conscious purpose.
I must emphasize here, however, that I was equally unattracted
to books on comparative religions, the supernatural, or psychical
research. I had the layman's inborn aversion to spiritualism, de-
rived from my orthodox parents. Of theosophy I knew nothing
and cared even less. Between October and May I did acquire and
try to read one of Sir Oliver Lodge's books on survival, but it
failed to hold my interest. I had a virgin mind therefore, for
all that now happened...
Of all subjects that I explored in those twenty years of self-
education, history was my forte. I felt that I knew world
history as I knew my own biography. And yet I had also grown
a strange dissatisfaction with general books on history. The
histories of the world were a grandiose compilation of battle-
dates, superimposed on the aggrandizements of generals and
statesmen. Oftentimes I wondered why no one had written a
history that should account for the racial, instead of the political,
urges of peoples. What was the underlying cause that made one
people suddenly pick up their women and children and dogs and
chattels and move over into the country of another people, at a
cost of great slaughter to both? Was some ulterior influence at
work of which historians knew nothing?
I decided to study this problem and write a book upon it. I
would write a short history of the world to be called "The Urge
of Peoples" and tackle the Historical Exposition as no one had
ever before attempted.
It was to be a matter of three years before I was to get my
cues straight for this great work, but I could not know that at the
time. I started. to write to "please my soul." It was around the
first of May, 1928, that I finally commenced this labor. I still
have the pages of manuscript preserved exactly where I left off
when the Night of Nights came.
For this thing happened--
8
THE WORK was going well, I was mentally untroubled, feel-
ing physically fit, writing six to eight hours a day with plenty of
outdoor recreation.
For the first time in many years I was having opportunity
to browse, ponder, meditate, and study. When I became brain-
weary I would whistle for Laska and we would go out for 'li
tramp in the canyon. Or I would clear away more sagebrush
on my land and do more grading with shovel and barrow.
Nothing in my mode of living, therefore could possibly have
accounted for the experience that overtook me. Indeed, I might
almost state that in a manner of speaking I had been "turned out
to grass" for eight months in order to quiet myself and prepare
for the illumination which I now believe was scheduled from the
first.
Insofar as I can recollect the time- for I made no particular
notation at the date-I had worked up to the 25th or 28th of
May. That night I retired around ten o'clock and lay in bed
reading until I dozed. The book had nothing to do with what
subsequently happened, nor had any occurrence of that day or
week or month any special significance in what that memorable
night brought forth. I emphasize this fact in order to refute the
claims of the skeptical that what I underwent was some form of
neurotic psychosis. The book was a notable volume on eth-
nology, something of a hobby as I have set forth.
In all honesty, however, I must confess that during the evening
I had arrived at a crucial point in the writing of "The Urge otf
Peoples" where I had laid down my pen to consider the puzzling
subject: What Were Races? How did it come about in Nature
that one man's skin was black, another's white, another's red,
another's yellow? How did it happen that a Chinaman would
be a Chinaman for a thousand generations never mind where he
lived, or what his environment? How did it happen that an
Englishman transferred to the Orient would stay an Englishman
though he ate Chinese food and talked the Chinese language
till he scarcely knew himself when he looked in a mirror? What
was this vast mystery of race, and why down all history were
the races so demarked ?
9
Before morning I discovered!
I felt drowsy around midnight, laid the volume on ethnology
aside, pulled off my glasses and extinguished the bed-lamp. I
had gone through a similar routine on a hundred other evenings ;
the day had been no different from a hundred other writing days
spent at the bungalow.
My sleeping chamber was located at the back of the house
and was perfectly ventilated, with two casement windows open-
ing toward the mountains. Laska curled on the floor at the foot
of my bed-her accustomed sleeping-place-and that she did
not externally motivate the phenomena in any way, I am positive.
When it ended and I was back in my body, I stumbled from the
bed and my action awoke her, bringing her over beside me where
she thumped her tail on the rug and sought to lick my wrist.
I do not recall having any specific dreams the first half of the
night, no physical distress, certainly no insomnia. For twenty
years I had been an average smoker and puffed my pipe con-
stantly over my typewriter. But I had never observed any
derogatory effects from such indulgence and was no more dis-
tressed than usual from this particular day's consumption of
tobacco.
But between two and four in the morning-the time later veri-
fied-a ghastly inner shriek seemed to tear through somnolent
consciousness. In despairing horror I wailed to myself :
"I'm dying! I'm dying!"
\i\That told me, I don't know. Some uncanny instinct had been
unleashed in slumber to awaken and warn me. Certainly some-
thing was happening to me-something that had never happened
in all my life-a physical sensation that I can best describe as a
combination of heart attack and apoplexy.
Mind you, I say physical sensation. This was not a dream.
I was fully awake and yet I was not. I knew that something
had happened to either my head or heart-or both- in sleep and
that my conscious identity was at the play of forces over which
I had no control. I was awake, mind you, and whereas I had been
10
on a bed in the dark of a California bungalow one moment when
the phenomenon started, the next I was plunging down a mystic
depth of cool blue space not unlike the bottomless sinking sensa-
tion that attends the taking of ether for anesthetic. Queer noises
w_
ere singing in my ears. Over and over in a curiously tumbled
brain the thought was preeminent :
"So this is death!"
I aver that in the interval between my seizure and the end of
my plunge, I was sufficiently possessed of my physical senses to
think: "My dead body may lie in this lonely house for days
before anyone discovers it, unless Laska breaks out and brings
aid."
Why I should think that, I also don't know-or what difference
it would have made to me, being the lifeless "remains"-but I
remember thinking the thought as distinctly as any thought I
ever originated and put on paper in the practice of my vocation.
Next I was whirling madly. Once in 1920 over San Francisco
an airplane in which I was a passenger went into a tail-spin and
we almost fell in the Golden Gate. That feeling! Someone
reached out, caught me, stopped me. A calm, clear, friendly
voice said close to my ear :
"Take it easy, old man. Don't be alarmed. You're all righh
We've got you and are here to help you!"
Someone had hold of me, two persons, in fact, one with a
hand under the back of my neck, supporting my weight, the
other with arms slipped under my knees. I was physically flaccid
from my "tumble" and unable to open my eyes at first because of
the sting of queer opal light that diffused in the place into which
I had come.
When I finally managed it, I became conscious that I had been
borne to a white marble pallet and laid nude upon it by two
strong-bodied, kindly-faced young men in white uniforms not
unlike those worn by internes in hospitals, who were secretly
amused at my confusion and chagrin.
11
"Feeling better?" the taller of the two asked presently as
physical strength to sit up came to me and I took note of my
surroundings.
"Where am I ?" I stammered.
They exchanged good-humored glances.
"Don't try to see everything in the first seven minutes !" was
all the answer they offered me then.
THEY did not need to answer my question. The query was
superfluous. I knew what had happened. I had left my earthly
body back on a bed in a bungalow in the mountains of California.
I had gone through all the sensations of dy-ing and whether this
was the Hereafter or an intermediate station, most emphatically
I had reached a place which had never been duplicated ini all of
my experience.
I say this because of the inexpressible ecstasy I felt in my
new state, both mental and physical.
For I had carried s01ne sort of a physical body into that new
environment with me! I knew that it was nude. It had been
capable of feeling the cool, steadying pressure of my friends'
hands before my eyes opened. And now that I had reawakened
without the slightest distress or harm. I was conscious of a
beauty and loveliness of environment that surpasses all chron-
icling on printed paper.
A sort of marble-tiled portico, the place was, lighted by that
soft, opal lumination, with a crystal-clear pool in a white stone
basin diagonally across from the bench on which I remained for
a time striving to accredit just what had transpired. I can best
liken the structure to a roofed-in Roman garden about fifteen
feet high and thirty feet square. Heavy smooth pillars supported
its roof. The illumination came from the material itself, a soft
alabaster whiteness that scientists in our earth-world would
doubtless identify as "cold light." ...
I had "come down" onto the bench that was set against the
west wall. This wall was blank behind me. On my left, to the
12
north, a corridor supported by more of the pillars ran an inter-
minable distance eastward; I could not make out where it went
and did not explore it. Across before me, the east wall was un-
broken, but at my right the whole south wall was open. Three or
four steps led down onto greensward, into a garden that was eerie
and indistinct in a sort of turquoise haze...
The marble basin opened in the southeast corner of this por-
tico floor ; a flight of a dozen steps led down into immaculate
water undisturbed by a ripple.
I looked from the garden vista, with its backdrop of turquoise
sky, to the two friends who had received me. There were no
other persons anywhere in evidence in the first half of my
experience. I swung my feet down from the pallet to the floor
and sat staring at the two men with my hands grasping the edge
of the pallet beside my naked knees.
Somehow I knew those two men, knew them as intimately as
I knew the reflection of my own features in a mirror. And yet
something about them, their virility, their physical "glow," their
strong and friendly personalities - sublimated - kept me from
identifying them at once.
Apparently they knew a good joke about me. They continued
to watch me with smiles in their eyes. I recall that the older and
taller of the two, the one whose hands had been under my neck,
stood wiping his hands uipon a towel as he regarded me, as though
something. had come off my body onto his palms that he ietished
to be rid of, after touching me.
At length I found my voice. Looking beyond them and around
me, my gaze came to the bench beneath me. I thumped it with
my palms. My first words were:
"Great Scott ! It's real."
"Of course it's real," my friend returned, still smiling.
I got up from my marble bench and moved dazedly about the
portico till I came and stood at the edge of the pool.
13
"Bathe in it,:' the instruction came, "You'll find you'll enjoy
it !"
I went down the steps into the most delightful water. And
here came one of the strangest incidents of the whole adventure.
When I came up fr01n that bath I was no longer conscious tha't
I was nude. And the sensation of nudity di& not occur to me
again throughout mY' visitation! On the other hand, neither was
I conscious of having donned clothes. The bath did something
to me in the way of clothing me. What, I don't know.
But immediately I came up garbed somehow by the magic
contact of that water.
JT DID not occur to me to feel either wonder or awe that
I had left my physical body and penetrated to this delightful
place. It all seemed as natural as it seems natural to me at this
present moment to be sitting in this fleshly body again, putting
these words on sheets of white paper. Thus it no more occurred
to me to discuss the fact that to all intents and purposes I was
"dead" than it occurs to me to go about this life discussing the
fact that I am "alive" ... there seems to be only one continuity
of life and consciousness and we feel as comfortably at home
in one vehicle or environment as in another.
While I had been bathing, the second man who had received
me went somewhere outside the portico and I never saw him
again. But my first splendid friend stayed with me. Clothed,
I sat down again on the pallet and we entered into converse.
I did not ask why I had come there. I was not particularly con-
cerned about those I had "left behind" in the earthly state. But
the great pertinent fact that I learned that night, and which has
since altered my entire conception of life in the world, came out
subsequently in our hour's conversation.
The friend who had received me had been in earthly life the
scion of an old Southern family who had "gone over" by the
accidental discharge of a rookie's rifle in a Southern Army camp
in 1917. He had been an officer in that camp and had dropped
in his tracks as the bullet entered his heart, dying instantly. Yet,
14
so sublimated in appearance was he, so virile as I have said, so
ruddy and stalwart, over what he had been in earth-life, that at
first I scarcely knew him. It took us some moments to get
acquainted.
Quizzically he asked me: "Don't you remember being here
before?"
"When have I ever been here before?" I asked him.
"Countless times," he assured me, smiling more indulgently.
"You left this plane or condition to go down into earth-life and
function as the person you know yourself to be. Don't you
remember that?"
"You mean I lived as a person before being born as William
Dudley Pelley ?"
"Everyone has lived before- hundreds of times before. People
still in earth-Iife will live hundreds of times again-as they may
have need of the mortal experiences. It's the very basis for all
human relationships."
I pondered this.
"You're writing a book on the peculiarities of earthly races,"
my friends went on subsequently. "You came to the place where
you wondered what races were. I'll tell you what they are.
They're great classifications of humanity epitomizing gradations
of spiritual development, starting with the black man and pro-
ceeding upward in cycles to the white. Each race is an earthly
classroom to which people go to get certain lessons in specific
things. When they've acquired the experiences from those lessons
they come back into this condition and rest, absorbing the in-
crement from those experiences into their characters and thus
'developing' . . . don't you remember being here before .'l"
Now my friend's name in earthly life was William, the same
as mine is William. Addressing one another back and forth as
"Bill"-as we did- may create some confusion in the reader's
mind as to which Bill was speaking. As this same person has
been my mentor on the Higher Plane ever since, conversing with
15
me clairaudiently as I will later delineate, I put this explanation
here to clarify who is meant by "William" in my later commu-
nications. It does not mean any sublimation of myself. ..
I CANNOT print here a literal transcript of all that William
and I discussed in the hour that now followed. Humanity is
not ready for an exposition of the great fundamentals of human
life, steeped as it is in the tenets of orthodoxy and man-made
concepts of the "hereafter" . .. if I told the exact truth of what
was discussed that night, my whole narrative might be discredited.
But vaguely I knew that I had been in that same state pre-
natally; it was far more familiar to me than mortal environment.
I was gradually coming into a sense of recalling something dim
and vague in the coffers of Long Memory, when this peculiar
thing happened :
All at once I perceived a bluish mist beginning to swirl about
me. At first I took it to be hallucination. It seemed that heavy
furls of smoke were laving around me, getting thicker and thicker,
until they got not only opaque but tangible to the touch.
Suddenly they got so strong and swirled so fast that William's
face and figure were blotted out. The thick odorless mist had
actually seized hold of 1ne and I was swirling with it! Fasten,
faster, faster I spun in that frightful carousal. Then I lost all
sense of sight or identity in the vortex of it. Straight up through
the heart of it I seemed to travel at a fearsome pace, to poise
abruptly in midair. And as I poised, something awful closed
about me! It seemed as though a great suit of clammy, cloying
armor, a miasma of implacable sinew, had shut around me. It
crunched me horridly, an excruciating agony that ended in a
click!
I opened my eyes to my California bedroom, with the faint
patches of starlight designating the windows ! I was back in the
mortal thing, the grinding and groaning of atoms, that made up
my earthly body! My heart was pounding frightfully ; my con-
stricted forehead was sopping wet with perspiration.
16
I lay stunned for half a moment, striving to accredit the sick-
ening thing that had happened.
I was back in earth-life and I had not wanted to come back.
My physical flesh was loathsome to me. I pulled myself up on
one elbow in the bed.
Then from somewhere I heard a strangely familiar voice
address me. Was it audible in the room, or inside of my head?
I did not bother to question. I only knew it was William's voice
and he was crying out to me cle(1trly and distinctly from the
Dimension that I had j1tst quitted so queerly:
"Come on back here, Bill! You and I aren't finished with our
visit yet."
"Come back?" I cried aloud. "What do you mean, come back.
I don't know how to get back."
"Oh yes, you do," the voice retorted. "Lie back on your pil-
low. You know the process in the depths of your subconscious.
Just relax and come!''
I make the solemn affidavit, that in that quiescent morning
hour, alone in that bungalow in the mountains, I did have it in my
subconscious to relax and vacate the mortal husk. In that mo-
ment I knew that I knew how to do it. Deciding that I did want
more of the same exquisite experience, I lay back on my pillow
and opened the marvelous vault of the subconscious storehouse.
This time I deliberately felt myself quitting my body !
I felt the same blissful release, the same exquisite languor that
precedes all forms of subconscious trance. I floated. I fell.
But this time no one "caught" me. I seemed to walk out into
the blessed white illumination of that exhilarating place. Nor did
it occur to me that even then I had done anything exceptionally
wonderful. I went through the whole experience the second time
as smoothly and unerringly as though I had fallen asleep and
resumed a dream.
When I walked out into that Higher Reality the second time,
however, a change had come over the portico itself.
17
It was filled with people!
They were coming into the structure from up the long cor-
ridor on the northern side. They sauntered into the room, and
stood around regarding me, smiling at me quietly-as though they
also knew a good joke about me-finally sauntering down the
steps to the south in little groups of three's and four's. Prac-
tically everybody nodded and spoke to me! They had a kindness,
a courtesy, a friendliness, in their faces and addresses that quite
overwhelmed me. Think of all the saintly, attractive, magnetic
folk you know, imagine them constituting the whole social world
-no misfits, no tense countenances, no sour leers, no preoccupied
brusqueness nor physical disfigurements-and the whole environ-
ment of life permeated with an ecstatic harmony as universal as
air, and you get an idea of my reflections in those moments. I
recall exclaiming to myself :
"How happy everybody seems! How jolly! Every person
here conveys something that makes me want to know him
personally."
Then with a sense of shock it dawned upon me:
'V have known every one of these persons at some time or
other, personally, intimately! But they're siiblimated now-phys-
ically glorified-not as I knew them in worldly life at a.ll!"
I CANNOT make anyone understand how natural it all seemed
that I should be there, particularly with them. After that first
presentiment of dying, which experience had ended in the most
kindly ministration as I have reported, all terror and strangeness
left me and I never felt more alive. It never occurred to me on
either occasion that I was in "heaven" or if it did, it occasioned
me no more astonishment than that at some time in my adolescent
consciousness it had occurred to me that I was on "earth." After
all, do we know much more about one place than the other?
I had simply ended two queer voyages through bluish void and
found myself each time in the same charming place among affable,
worthwhile people who saw in me something that amused them to
the point of quiet merriment. Yet not a merriment that I could
resent.
18
I had no mad obsession to go off in search of Diety or look up
Abraham Lincoln or Julius Caesar. I was quite content to stroll
timidly in the portico by which I had entered this harmonious
dimension and be greeted with pleasant nods by persons whose
individualities were uncannily familiar.
They were conventionally garbed, these people, both men and
women. I recall quite plainly that some of the women wore
hats. The big, broad-shouldered, blue-eyed friend in white who
had first received me with his hand beneath my neck, always
hovered in my vicinity, I recall, and kept an eye on my where-
abouts and conduct...
I PLEDGE my reputation on the solemn contention that I
talked with these people, identified many of them-including two
former Manhattan newspaper editors who had had much to do
with launching me on the tempestuous seas of magazine author-
ship-called others by wrong names and was corrected, saw and
did things that night that are verboten for me to narrate in a
magazine article but which I recall with a minuteness of detail
as graphic as I see the keys of my typewriter now under my
fingers.
Regardless of the fact that imagination is the chief asset for
one of my vocation-or what was my vocation up to that time-
! am not given to particularly vivid dreams. Certainly we never
dream by the process of coming awake first, knowing that we
are suffering some abnormal kind of head or heart attack, swoon-
ing and coming abruptly conscious again in the arms of two
kindly persons who reassure us audibly that everything is quite
all right. Nor do the impressions of a dream stay with us-at
least they have never stayed so with me-so that after months
have passed such an experience is still as vivid as any of my
experiences in Siberia during the late World War.
I went somewhere that night, penetrated to a distinct place
and had an actual physical experience. I found myself an exist-
ing entity in a locality where those I had always called "dead"
were not dead at all; they were alive with an alive-ness far
transcending life in flesh.
19
The termination of this journey-my exit, so to speak-was as
peculiar as my advent. I cannot print the true details, as they
concern a person now living on earth. Furthermore, they would
nqt be understood by the masses to whom this article may come,
for as Jesus once said regarding the higher dimensions of life:
If I tell you of earthly things and ye believe them not, how can
ye believe when I tell you of heavenly things.
But to give you some idea of what I encountered, let me say
this: In that mortally discarnate state myself, I iencountered the
soul of a living person that had become released by normal sleep
and was wandering in that Land of the Leal without know-
ing that it was there! It would awaken on the morrow totally
unaware of what it had done during the night. And greeting it
as I did, in the form that I did, showing me its true character
nakedly, so horrified and shocked me that I ran from it. As I
ran, it followed blindly, not unlike a nightmare, a creature with
no eyes!
I understand now what it was I saw, and why I saw it. I had
called it to me by a subconscious process too complicated to enter
into here. But nmning from it, I stumbled and fell as it was
almost upon me in nightmare obsession.
Instantly, instead of real biliousness, I was caught in the swirl
of bluish vapor again that seemed to roll in from nowhere in
particular. Instead of plunging prone, I was lifted and levitated.
Up, up, up, I seemed to tumble away from the ghastly apparition
feet first, despite the ludicrousness of the description. A long,
swift, swirling journey of this, as before. Then came that suffo-
cating suffusion of greasy, cloying, sickish substance ending once
more with the agonizing click. The best analogy is the sound my
repeating deer-rifle makes when I work the ejector mechanism-
a flat, metallic, automatic sensation.
Next, I was sitting up in bed in my physical body again, as
wide awake as I am at this moment, staring at the patches of
windows where the new day was coming brighter over the east-
ern mountains. But the same reflexion of physical exhaustion
was again through my diaphragm and abdomen, and it lasted
20
several minutes. Not any digestive distress. Simply a great
weariness in my torso as though I had just passed through a
great physical ordeal and my heart must accelerate to make up
the lost energy.
"Those weren't dreams!" I cried aloud, half expecting to hear
William's voice in rebuttal once more. But it did not come. In-
stead, Laska uncoiled from the foot of the bed and straightened
to her haunches.
I looked at the clock on the table near at hand. The time was
twenty minutes to five o'clock!
There was no more slumber for me that night. I lay back
finally with the twin experiences fresh in my senses but with
an awful lamentation in my heart that I was forced to come
back at all- back into a world of struggle and disappointment,
turmoil and misrepresentation, to an existence of bill collectors,
unfriendly bankers, capricious editors and caustic critics- to all
the mental and physical aches and pains which combine with the
slings and arrows of outrageous fortune to make of this earth-
plane a Vale of Tears.
It was tragedy, the Coming Back !
Particularly I dwelt on the one I had seen wandering in sleep,
called to me by an act of my own. Not till weeks and months
later was I instructed in exactly what had taken place that night,
producing the latter phenomenon. But it was a common process,
I learned. Thousands of us go out of our bodies and commu-
nicate with our "dead" on their own planes, while we are in the
heaviest part of the night's cataleptic slumber. But we do not
bring the memory of it back into mortal consciousness. Fre-
quently, our adventures thus are the causes of our dreams. We
are trying to picture to ourselves in tern1s of earth-form, what we
have been through, and we have the vague dream distortions.
Or we tell our relatives at the breakfast table: "I had a terribly
vivid dream about Aunt Emily last night," Aunt Emily having
departed this life weeks or months or years before. We actually
were with Aunt Emily but in an entirely different plane of con-
sciousness which we cannot recognize on that of the mortal.
21
Enough of that for the moment.
Call it the Hereafter, call it Heaven, call it Purgatory, call it
any one of the Astral Planes, call it a Hyper-Dimension, call it
What You Will. Whatever it is- and where-that human en-
tities go after being released from physical limitations, I had gone
there that night consciously, and brought the full conscious mem-
ories of it back with me! Like Lazarus of old, I had been called
back, back to the anguish of physical existence to finish out my
time and errand in the conventional manner.
For I did have an errand to finish out, and some day when the
proper time has elapsed, and earthly event has proven the validity
of my contention, I may reveal what I have had thus revealed to
me, as to the specific details of that errand.
Up to the time of writing this article, almost a year later, I
have not had the slightest inclination toward a repetition of the
episode. Dreams I have had, and occasionally a fine old-fashioned
nightmare, but have known them for such. Somehow or other, in
sleep that night, with external aid or otherwise, I unhooked
something in the strange mechanism that is Spirit in Matter and
for two hours my own conscious entity that is Bill Pelley, writing-
man, slipped over on the Other Side.
There is a survival of human entity after death of the body, for
I have seen and talked intelligently with friends whom I have
looked down upon as cold wa.x- in caskets!
But that is not all. There is plenty of aftermath. To describe
the details of the experience, however, it is necessary to intrude
a. few personal confidences, none of which I am eager to make.
I brought back something with me from that Ecstatic Interlude
-something that had interpenetrated my physical self and which
suddenly began to function in strange powers of perception !
AS I have said, I was born the only son of an itinerant Metho-
dist minister. Soon after my birth my parents began that old-
fashioned Odyssey of traveling from "call" to "call" in the north-
ern Massachusetts back hills.
22
Orthodox Protestant theology as it was forty years ago, was
far more plentiful in my father's household than bread, butter,
clothes and fuel, in those days. Camp meetings and Quarterly
Conferences, the Higher Criticism, Predestination, Free Will and
Election, Infant Damnation, hell fire and the Day of Judgment,
constituted most of the household converse in my young and
tender years. God early shaped up to me as a weird combina-
tion of heavenly Moloch and sublimated Overseer of _the Poor.
Parish poverty forced my father from the ministry while I
was in childhood but with grim New England rigor he saw to it
that his relinquishment of a pulpit did not lessen my surfeit of
conventional theology. Three times to church on the Sabbath day
and twice during the week-Tuesday evening class meeting and
Thursday night prayer meeting-left me small opportunity to for-
get my Creator in the days of my youth and the gratitude I owed
Him. Just what this gratitude was owed Him for, troubled my
small soul exceedingly in those far-off years because I found
myself a perpetually hungry, shabbily-dressed, and none-too-
happy youngster who had to start his life-labor at fifteen years of
age and stay with it thereafter, even to the present.
Much Scripture was quoted to prove that my desire for a
high school and college education was unfilial in view of the
struggle father was having for survival. I ceased to be strong
for Scripture after interest in my first mill-job had become a
stalemate. I must further attest that the treadmill of a factory's
discipline when other boys of my age were disporting themselves
in healthy animal play, did not make me much stronger for God.
In the years between fifteen and twenty-two I became a
smouldering little Bolshevik against every kind of authority, par-
ticularly against religious authority which had apparently sanc-
tioned these injustices against me, and picking up the rudiments
of a denied education by promiscuous reading, I went far afield
from accredited Christianity.
No need to clutter up this article with the books I read, but at
twenty-two, in a little town in northern New York State I was
publishing a brochure magazine of heretical tendencies. Not
23
exactly atheistic but holding few illusions about the Scriptures-
as I knew them then-or about the Scribes and Pharisees who
wail loudly in public places about their righteousness and who
take good care that their alms are seen of men. I had discovered
myself possessed of a certain facility with iconoclastic language,
no censor, and the courage of my ignorance. Fresh from a wry,
repressed childhood, cluttered up psychologically with the worst
sort of New England inhibitions, revengeful that I had been de-
nied social and academic advantages for which my hunger was
instinctive, I proceeded to play a lone hand and make things hot
for several goodly people whose only indictment was that they
represented authority as aforesaid, especially spiritual authority.
I know I made existence rather annoying for a number of rep-
resentative ministers of the faith who saw life as through a glass
darkly but weren't making the squall about it that I was making.
From maturer perspective I quite affirm that I should have been
spanked-or rather, educated-but all the theological misfits in
forty-eight states and a couple of foreign countries were soon
buying my magazine, unaware that it was being written by a
beardless youth, and my twaddle and blither were piling up to give
me much heartburn in later years when I came to see that I
merely took out on God what I should have taken out on an in-
hibited environment.
The Almighty stood the onslaught rather well, however. I got
into newspaper work as I have outlined, and into matrimony, and
parenthood, and more poverty. And that was the last of the
heretical magazine, though not of its owner's theological com-
plexes. And eventually the day came when immature intelligence
couldn't stand the pace and instead of digesting I ejected it ala
mal de mer . . . for the next ten years I was practically an
agnostic.
I had brains enough to see that my life had been started all
wrong and was "getting no better fast," but not the academic
equipment nor social balance to alter existence and start myself
about-face.
Those were cruel, cruel years, looking back on them now. A
couple of business projects went whack and after them my mar-
24
riage. Family relatives made the whole mess worse by volunteer-
ing to "teach" me how to run my affairs. And my affairs-and
life-had already been run too much by "teaching" relatives.
With each additional snarl I got more and more vindictive. The
death of my first daughter mellowed me somewhat. I wrote a
couple of novels in which love of human nature was largely a
reflex from the fearsome storm of hatred and despair that was
waging inside me. I knew my life was a ghastly mess, that I
was cynical and caustic, that the so-called "friends" I possessed,
whom I could really trust, could be counted on the fingers of one
hand- and most of them would stand watching at that-that we
got nothing in this world unless we fought for it with all the
ferocity of a Siberian wolf-dog and that beyond peradventure
of a doubt,_ death ended everything!
America's entry into the world war found me in the Orient,
as I have said, not a healthy place at all for one who was striving
to escape the biological premise for human existence. I went
with the Japanese forces to Siberia, acted as Red Triangle man,
consular courier, and war correspondent through the Bolshevik-
Czech campaign and came back to the United States to face a
newspaper business in ruins. The swarming millions of Asia
had not confirmed my faith in the conventional Almighty's good-
ness and wisdom, in fact they had only made me more skeptical
than ever of His existence at all, though I never had anything but
a remorseful tenderness in my heart for the Man of Sorrows and
what He epitomized in the scheme of things human.
.
Curiously enough, however, this was strictly a personal rela-
tionship. It had nothing to do with my father's theology.
To save my newspaper creditors from loss, I went to Holly-
wood and labored among the flesh-pots. I made a score of motion
pictures which rehabilitated my fortunes. I wrote an additional
couple of novels that my publishers refused. I fought with them
in consequence, still taking life by the strong-arm method. I
wrote many stories that editors rejected. I fought with them also.
When an editor wouldn't buy a story of mine that I considered
particularly brilliant, I sat down at my typewriter and contrived
to tell him that I thought him an ass. You see, I had the unfor-
25
tunate complex that the attainment of success meant a knock-
down and drag-out scrap. It made me a lone wolf at life, get-
ting the least bit mangy as I reached my forties...
Time after time I tried sincerely to correct my psychology and
get back certain religious-not theological-cues I felt that I
had lost with the passing of boyhood. I plunged deeper than ever
into eieven-pound volumes on all sorts of racial traits and be-
haviorisms. I was a walking museum of how a man may reach
middle life and yet be the worst mess internally that ever got
into Who's Who in America but What of It?
In view of such an autobiographical summary, the significance
of the nocturnal experience in my mountain bungalow should not
be abstruse.
I can look back now and recognize that throughout those forty
years of turmoil and seeming unhappiness I was being prepared
for something. It was all very deliberate. There was no chance
in it anywhere. I had a definite work to do and those had been
forty years of the most rigorous disciplining in order to acquire
the experience to do that work efficiently. InJ no other environ-
ment, with no other parents, could I have gained all those spiritual
things that I had truly been gaining without being aware of it...
Thousands, yes millions, of people are going through that same
Golgotha today-not knowing they are acquiring invaluable ex-
perience and wisdom for a great work they definitely volunteered
to do after getting into life. But they, like myself, must find the
Key to the secret of that Golgotha in each case. It came to! me
in California in 1928 because without exactly knowing it, I had
arrived at a balancing of the three factors in my being : the phys-
ical, mental, and spiritual. I was therefore ready to proceed with
the larger employment.
THE FIRST intimation that I received, that the discarnate ex-
perience had affected me physically, was in going down into
town next morning and into the office of one of my concerns.
Soon I noted that the employes were conferring in little knots,
whispering together, casting puzzled glances in my direction.
26
"Has anything especially happened to you?" one girl finally
found courage to inquire.
"What makes you ask that ?" I demanded, startled.
"Because somehow you don't seem the same person who went
out of here two or three days ago. You've altered somehow. We
can't make it out."
I went about my bungalow in the days that followed as though
I were still in a sort of trance-which verily I was. Days of
this, with a queer unrest galvanizing me, a feeling that I was on
the verge of something, that out of my weird self-projection onto
another plane of consciousness I had brought back something that
was working in me like yeast.
Then came experience Number Two-not quite so theatric and
therefore harder to describe.
On~ night while stili imbued with the "feeling" of my fourth
dimensional adventure, I decided to go to New York on a trip
and consult with some friends there whom I knew to be interested
in the Society for Psychical Research. I took down a volume of
Emerson and tossed it into my bag for reading matter en route.
The next day I was speeding eastward.
All day long I rode and the daylight died as we left the Golden
State behind us. Off on the reaches of the Mojave Desert, the
transcontinental train clicked along, mile on mile. The evening
deepened. Passengers retired. I was finally left alone in the
club car.
I had the volume of Emerson with me and had opened it to his
Over-Soul. In the middle of it, though not reading any specific
line, epigram, paragraph or page, I had a queer moment of con-
fusion, a sort of cerebral vertigo. Then a strange physical sensa-
tion played at the top of 1ny head as though a great shaft of pure
white light had poured down f1'0m above, boring straight through
the roof of that droning Pullman coach and into m31 skull!
In that instant a vast weight went out of my whole physical en-
semble, a weight that had been forty years in concreting. A veil
was torn away.
27
I was conscious of a Presence, a stupendous Presence. Some-
thing had happened and was continuing to happen. A cascade of
pure, cool, wonderful peace was falling down from somewhere
and completely cleansing me from every snarl and complex.
I knew in those moments that Jesus the Christ was an actual
Personage!
I knew more.
I knew that He had been waiting forty years for me to come
up through my curriculum of earthly experiencing, to arrive at
that moment.
I knew that the churches, the theologians, the religionists, were
all wrong about Jesus the Christ and that along with millions of
others being blindly led and fed on arid allegorical interpreta-
tions of Truth, they were misrepresenting the Man of Galilee.
Jesus the Christ, and all that He meant to the world, WAS!
And again there was nothing maudlin about it, nothing sancti-
monius, nothing that had to do with religion.
It was more than ever a personal relationship.
My book fell from my fingers to the car-carpet and stayed
there. I sat staring into space. L was not the same man I Juul
been a few moments beifore!
I mean this physically, mentally, spiritually. I knew that some-
how I had acquired senses and perception that I could never
hope to describe to any second person and! yet they were as real
to me as the shape of my hands. For a time I wondered if "much
learning had driven me mad" but then I recalled that really mad
people never stop to question whether or not they are balanced.
Next I was aware of something new and strange in my whole
experience-
! was conscious of presences about me, conversing. That empty
Pullman held passengers not perceptible to mortal eye. And in
a manner of speaking, I could di,scern their thought-speech!
28
I cannot tell in this article the contacts and adventures I con-
fronted in New Yark, corroborating these presentiments. But I
came back to my mountain bungalow a month later with these
psychical gifts developed to a point where I knew full well the
meaning of those strange manifestations in the house at which
my dog had been so nervous.
From the very first night of my return I knew that there was
someone in that darkening room with me beside Laska, my dog.
In fact, I was aware that several living, vibrant personalities were
with me in that room. Laska sat up, cocked her head from side
to side and wagged her tail at some of them again-at' nothing
apparently-one of them in particular standing by my desk at the
north end of the room. And now I understood !
And yet I was not in the slightest afraid. Why be afraid of
our friends? .. .
In all of my life up to that time I had never seen a ghost, never
had more than an academic interest in psychical phenomena, and
pooh-poohed spiritualism as a sort of crack-brained dogma that
belonged in the same pigeon-hole with soothsaying and gypsy
fortune-telling. I had not invited any of these experiences that
I knew of. They had simply come' to me.
What really had happened was, I had unlocked hidden powers
unthin myself that I know every hu11uin being possesses, and had
augmented my five physical senses with other senses just as bona.-
fide, legitimate, and natural as touch, taste, smell, sight, or hearing!
That I had help in unlocking these hidden powers I will not
deny. Nevertheless, nothing had happened to me that has not
happened to thousands of other people, only in very rare cases
do they talk about it. What those hidden powers are, and why
I maintain that they are bonafide, I will have to leave to other
writings.
But they had suddenly shown me that life was not at all the
ordinary, humdrum, three-meals-a-day thing that I had always
accepted. Its essence and its meaning was so vast and fine and
high and beautiful that it overwhelmed me and a recognition of
29
it performed a sort of re-creation in me that made me feel I was
not the same person I had been up till then.
My desire to explain intelligibly just what I mean by this, is
almost an ache within me at this moment. But for some uncanny
reason, words are not the medium that conveys it. The only
term I can employ that comes anywhere near the truth is spirit-
uality. The me that is the Bill Pelley entity can convey it by being,
and the fact that I am, gets it to you.
Is this last a nonsensical statement? All I can say is, that I
know by experience that there is a great overpowering existence
outside of what we call worldly Life-that I have been in it and
felt it-that having been in it has endowed me with certain capaci-
ties that have transformed my whole concept of the universe and
some of my friends are kind enough to add, have transformed
me. Physically as well as mentally.
MY first dramatic physical reaction was a sudden change in the
physical components of my body. I discovered that miraculously
I had lost my "nerves." ...
Ever since childhood I had lived under such a tremendous
nervous tension that it had kept me underweight, put lines on
my face and an edge on my voice, shattered me psychologically so
that opposition of any kind infuriated me and made me want to
crash through it like an army tank flattening out a breastworks.
Attacks of indigestion were so common that I no longer gave
them thought. The tobacco I consumed had its basis in the
gnawing desire to anesthetize this nervousness.
Suddenly this had departed.
I was peaceful inside.
I had the glorious feeling of physical detachment from the
handicaps of bodily matter. No form of bodily exertion seemed
to take energy that I need consciously supply. I had always been
slightly stoop-shouldered. Wjthout any unusual exercise my
spine straightened of itself, so to speak, and my shoulders felt
broadened.
30
Along with this physical alteration went the unexplainable
faculty to withstand fatigue either active or sedentary. If I
wearied myself by tremendous labor, it was the healthy weariness
of boyhood that overtook me. On the other hand, I could sit
at my typewriter twelve hours at a stretch if necessary with
scarcely a muscle protesting such inactivity.
With this alteration came a different feeling toward those
around me. I discovered that I couldn't fight with people any
more, and that I was making friends. A queer statement, this.
Yet people were going out of their way to perform services for
me, to counsel me, to seek my society, to make me one with them-
selves. I think this amazed me more than the strangeness of my
new physical rebirth.
And yet deep down underneath it all . . well, I understood.
That understanding, I aver, has been growing with me every day
and hour since, com.prising naturally many things that I am re-
strained from offering in a magazine that is read by all classes
of people at all stages of mental, moral, and spiritual development.
Still, there are conclusions and equations I may draw that have
universal application.
WHAT is this thing that happened to me, and why did it
happen?
First, I believe my subconscious hunger after what the Bible
terms "the things of the spirit"-that is, the sincere desire to
penetrate behind the mediocrity of three-meal-a-day living and
ascertain what mystery lay behind this Golgotha of Existence-
had what might be called a "prenatal basis." It had to do with
my coming into life in the first place. Vaguely, dimly, all through
my life up to that memorable night in California, I had remem-
bered something that I was supposed to do, to accomplish, in life,
and the fact that I was not accomplishing it-that I could rec-
ognize with any inward satisfaction-was taking me out of my
character and making me the infuriated young wretch that re-
sented authority the clock around. The fact that I had responded
at last to the Higher Call, that morning in Beverly Hills, turned
31
my life around abruptly even as I had turned my car around lit-
erally, attracted to me spiritual forces of a very high and altruis-
tic order who aided me in making that hyperdimensional visitation.
Second, it goes without saying that having made such a visita-
tion and having had certain questions concretely answered by
those I confronted in that dimension, my subconscious-or for
that matter conscious-knowledge of what the Fourth Dimension
is, and means, and what can be done within its area, undertook
to operate first upon my physical body and performed the re-
juvenation that subsequently came to me. And yet I can no more
explain the Fourth Dimension with words than I can convey to
a man blind from birth what I mean when I talk about the redness
of the color Red. I know what the higher dimension is, myself,
as I know what redness is by having eyes. I can see how it
interpenetrates Matter, constituting the "inside" of it, so to
speak, and how projections from it must come out the reverse of
what we know them on the physical plane. But I can no more
make it intelligible to the average reader than Einstein can explain
Relativity to a group of salesmen in a smoking car. The average
man or woman without his ~piritual perceptions duly awakened,
cannot possess any equipment to assimilate what I am trying to
tell him-anymore than the blind man can assimilate the "redness"
of red if he never had eyes capable of knowing the peculiar
attributes of Light in Matter that give the phenomenon of color,
or any more than expounders of Relativity can convey their mean-
ings to those unfamiliar with higher mathematics.
Third, these experiences-the visitation, the knowledge that was
bestowed in the visitation and the result of it-immediately re-
vealed to me that there is a world of subliminal existence inter-
penetrating the ordinary world in which most of us exist as aver-
age two-legged Americans full of aches and worries, and that this
subliminal world is the real world-the world of "stern reality"
if you will-that is waiting for the race to learn of it and tap its
beneficent resources long before what we call physical death, that
our "dead" loved ones are existent in it, alive and happy, conscious
of their condition and waiting for us to join them either at "death"
32
or at any time that we attain to that stage of spirituality where it
is fitting for them to make contact and remember it!
Understand thoroughly, I am not a spiritualist, a Mystic, or a
Psychic Researcher in the ordinary meaning of those terms. I
am not trying to convert anyone to anything. I am simply telling
you that something happened to me that was not consciously self-
invited, that my friends attest to an even greater alteration having
occurred in my personality than I am capable of feeling from
within, although I feel plenty.
Having had certified that there is no such thing as Death for
the conscious and sentient entity that is You and Me as we know
one another, I find this certainty the touchstone that unlocks many
another mystery. What I have learned about the Life Funda-
mentals, that night and since, explains why one man is born rich
and another poor, one a splendid athlete and another a helpless
cripple, explains the friendships we make and the mates we marry,
the poor luck or good fortune that accrues to us, why we put work
and worry and love into the raising of children only to have them
snatched from us at the threshold of maturity. It unlocks the
mystery of the Christian religion as ''it was in its pristine purity,
the miracles of Jesus, the conversional power of the Holy Spirit.
It makes life strong and beautiful and true and fine-something
to be lived without fear or doubt or unhappiness-and I think the
experience happened to me because it is my earthly brevet as time
goes on to delineate in book and preachment something of the
spirit1w,l "redness of red" if that conveys my meaning to those
who may be interested.
There is in every human heart a hunger and a thirst for the
things of the Spirit but in many of them this desire has become
so embalmed with the poisons of worries, doubts, fleshly desires,
struggles to attain the wherewithal for physical survival, that for
all practical purposes it no longer exists.
The day is coming in the evolution of the race when Spirituality
is going to be the whole essence of life instead of the present
world's materialism. Here and there are those who because of
their prenatal identities, so to speak, their consequent re-awaken-
33
ings, their visions self-invited or otherwise, may be called monitors
and mentors for their fellows, showing them what may be at-
tained by anyone if he so orders his life and thinking as to be
susceptible to such revelations.
I believe that Nature, God, Universal Spirit-give the Great
Cause any name you will-is taking this method of giving the mon-
itors and mentors unusual experiences to furnish the whole race an
inspiration by which it may quicken its spiritual pace. There is
nothing more prohibitive morally or ethically in exploring these
great new fields of Reality than in exploring the fields of ·radio or
atomic energy. In fact, the Great Cause mea.ns we shall explore
them!
At any rate, whether I am right or wrong, I know that for a
limited time one night in 1928, out in California, my spiritual
entity left my physical body and went somewhere, a concrete
place where I could talk, walk about, feel and see, and have
answers returned to my questions addressed to physically "dead"
people, that have checked up in the waking world and clarified
for me the whole riddle of earthly existence.
I know there is no Death because in a manner of speaking I
went through the process of dying, came back into my body, went
out again deliberately, came back into it again and took up the
burden of earthly living again. I know that the experience has
metamorphosized the cantankerous Yankee that was once Bill
Pelley and launched him into a wholly different universe that
seems filled with much love, harmony, good humor and reasonable
prosperity.
What's the answer to that?
There is no answer, except that it must be accepted as inevit-
ably as I am forced to accept the awareness of my own identity.
I know because I have experienced.
And further deponent sayeth not.
34
II
LREE YEARS have now elapsed since I wrote the fore-
going article for The American Magazine. I believe I have now
had time to digest the significance of my hyperdimensional ex-
perience and see the episode in its proper perspective.
At first I was dubious about writing the article. It was a very
deep personal experience and its nature was such that I did not
care to have myself labeled a freak or a crank. But The A1ner-
ican Magazine's editors persuaded me, and so the story was
written and published.
I decided suddenly to accede to their request. When I brought
in the manuscript, the March number of the magazine for 1929
had already gone to press. They halted the presses, had the forms
taken off, and the first article removed and held over, to give
space to My Seven Minutes in Eternity. Which meant that my
manuscript had to be cut and shortened to fit exactly the space
thus rendered available, even to the line and the word. So long
as this enforced condensation did not militate against either the
facts or the purport of the message, I could offer no objection.
The only regrettable feature was that I had no opportunity in
the space thus at my disposal to delineate the two passings out
of my body in the one night, or explain that the title was largely
derived from my friend William's suggestion, "Now don't try to
see everything in the first seven minutes!" Many people were
consequently under the impression that my experience lasted only
seven minutes and they wonder honestly how I could have
crammed so much into such an incredibly short span of time.
The circulation of The American Magazine in 1929 was around
2,250,000 copies. National advertisers estimate that each copy of
a given magazine is read by at least four persons. Which means
that something like ten million people had access to that narra-
tive in its original form as published, and because it was the first
article in the magazine for the month, most of them read it.
35
I know because of my mail in reaction.
I have told in my series of published papers written since,
"Why I Believe the Dead are Alive!" the exactly detailed denoue-
ment following my epochal adventure, entering into the finest
phases of my experiences since in what seems to be tantamount
to a volume of Psychic Memoirs. Sufficient to say here that
immediately the Amer·ican article was published, things com-
menced happening in the offices of the magazine. Mail addressed
ta the editor, or to me as author of the narrative, assumed pro-
portions analogous to that of Col. Charles Lindbergh after his
epochal flight to Paris. I happened to be back in California at
the time. Frantic trans-continental telephone calls began to reach
me from New York imploring me to return and take up the task
of answering the great mass of correspondents who wanted more
light on my extraordinary experience.
I returned to New York and began the long labor of sorting,
classifying, analyzing, and answering this plethora of letters.
It took me from si.~: to nine months, with the aid of two sec-
retaries. The stranger part is, those letters are still arriving-
because of a magazine article published three years ago-and my
replies still keep one typist busy the better part of each day.
These letters in reaction, I discovered, grouped themselves
into three divisions : The great mass came from persons who
declared they had undergone a similar e,'l:perience at some time
in their lives and wanted to compliment me on telling mine
publically; the next largest assortment came from those who were
neither facetious, skeptical, nor derogatory, but who merely
wanted more light on my sensations or the details of the environ-
ment in which I found myself ; in the third class was that great
army of spiritually minded people who only wanted to thank me
for giving them an incentive toward stronger Christian faith and
to implore me not to rest content with the writing of one article.
And here is an astounding fact : Out of all the mail that
resulted from the publication of "Seven Minutes in Eternity" less
than 24 actual, communications derided me as an eccentric, 01j
expressed open disbelief that I was sane or telling the truth!
36
.The great army of English-speaking people who read of my
experience paid me the compliment of taking my account at its
face value and asked only that I answer specific questions about
that Fourth Dimension in which I testified that those they loved
but had temporarily lost, were dwelling.
NOW CONSIDERING the reactions from the experience,
both upon my readers and upon myself and _consequent fortunes,
there is much to be said. Let me discuss the prodigious reader-
reaction first.
The most gratifying surprise that I encountered was of course
the discovery that I had not been peculiar in my adventure: that
hundreds upon hundreds of quite normal persons from time to
time throughout their lives had left their physical bodies under
different provocations and visited the same higher levels of con-
sciousness which I had explored so dramatically that night.
But most of them had lacked the courage even to tell relatives,
fearing an arraignment for falsehood or insanity.
I know that the vast majority of these persons were telling
me the truth because in their letters they went to considerable
length to acquaint me with details, particulars, and items of their
experiences which were substantially identical with details I had
undergone but not mentioned in my public magazine account, and
some of which I had not even mentioned to my closest friends.
I submit that two or more people, unknown to one another,
who had traveled to Japan for instance, could easily tell on meet-
ing in later years whether the others had really been to the Land
of the Cherry Blossoms by a comparison of what they saw and
experienced in that altogether-charming country. It was so with
me and my correspondents. In some cases they reminded me of
details that had actually slipped my memory.
And here is a still more interesting check-up: ln' 95 per cent
of these testimony letters, the technique of getting into the Higher
Dimensions and the scenes and experiences encountered there,
were so similar as to almost postulate a Law of the Process.
A man in Oregon and a woman in Virginia would write me of
37
similar visitations made by them, both recounting accurate details
and specifications which I had not mentioned, and neither know-
ing of the other's letter.
In most of these instances, the visitation came as mine came:
unheralded and unexpected. Neither did it come always in the
aftermath of sickness, drug addiction, or time of great trouble.
But invariably it did come in the wake of a tremendous desire
for spiritual truth and a hunger and thirst after things of the
spirit. And let me add that the writers of· the letters in this
clas~ were not drawn from among any one type of person, any one
sect, cult, age, occupation, social stratum, or locality of residence.
The letters people wrote me came from a clean-cut cross-section
of Americans, from railroad and bank presidents, from stenogra-
phers and street-car conductors, of every age in years from octo-
genarians to boys and girls in college, men and women being
represented equally.
And another startling fact was : that if any one class of in-
quirers was particularly noticeable in this mass, it was composed
of Protestant ministers, most eager of all to lead their flocks into
a clearer understanding of the eternal verities.
Here again, my eyes were opened. This was not like the
theology of the old days. Was something coming over humanity,
a general awakening, of which my own experience had merely
been precursor ?
The article, I might say, was copied in innumerable religious
journals, and during the first year my own staff, or that of
The American M agazine, learned of 144 sermons preached by
clergymen on the experience in question.
In only one.instance was a skeptical attitude taken by a pastor.
This exception came from a minister in California who .sincerely
believed the devil had tampered with my soul that night because
I had not encountered Our Lord when I found myself on the
Inner Side of Life's Veil. . . . ·
I found, I say, that such a discarnate visitation was commo:1
to vast numbers of people, but they took no trouble to convince
38
others not so fortunate because of the facetiousness with which
they had assumed they would be greeted.
Going out of the body, consciously or unconsciously, is a com-
mon experience among persons of all races, creeds, and strata of
society! Only I had caused a sensation by describing it in the
lead article of a periodical having ten million readers. And in
view of the fact that the great majority of those who from time
to time so enter other planes of being report similar sights and
experiences, it is not difficult to accept the thesis that here is a
field w~ich society may well explore to its profit.
THE SECOND class of my correspondents universally wanted
to know how much of the article was fact and how much fiction.
Some of them would pick out tiny discrepancies of phraseology
and context, of which any person writing at high speed in the
exhilaration of composition might be guilty, and offer them as
evidence that fabrication seemed evident in certain sequences of
my narrative.
To this class of questioner I wrote a personal letter wherever
practicable, assuring each one that whereas whole sequences of
my narration were deleted in the interests of common credibility
-because dogmatic church people might take umbrage at the
magazine for printing such an article at all, everything that did
get printed was cold-blooded fact, to the best of my knowledge
and memory·! There was no deliberate fiction in the article and
it was not written to make a literary sale or enhance my reputa-
tion by sensationalism. The editors of The American Magazine
will attest that I wrote the article under protest, that I abhorred
having the indictment of "going Conan Doyle" attached to my
name as a writing man. At the time that I was persuaded to
do it, none of us knew whether it would be accepted by the public
or whether we would be charged with perpetrating a hoax. We .
realized that we were pioneers of a sort, and due to the fact
that I could not go the whole way and tell everything, I was
risking my reputation on one grand game of "pitch and toss" ...
happily the experiment came out all right insofar as The America.n
Magazine was concerned. As for myself, it has only been
39
within the past year that I have begun to see the experience in its
true significance and realize what stupendous power was at work
that night, altering my career deliberately for a most incredible
reason. More of this later.
In this second class of correspondents, wanting more light on
phenomena so amazing as those I had professed to set forth, I
grouped also those learned psychologists, psychiatrists, and physi-
ologists, who went .to the trouble of composing monographs to
convince the editors of The American Magazine that they must
have lent themselves to a hoax, in that what had happened to me
was much the same sort of hallucination which they treated daily.
Others offered lengthy argument that I must certainly be a
secret user of drugs, or that the experience resulted from the
prodigious use of tobacco. ·
What I could not tell these eminent professors was the same
thing that I could not delineate to the magazine's other readers,
and which I have not told to many persons outside of a circle of
intimate friends. It was a thing that could be told only to those
who had witnessed the results of the phenomena in my life and
affairs since: the persistence of the strange supersensitive powers
which were awakened in me by contact with those on the Other
Side that night, and how that contact has been preserved in
uninterrupted sequence ever since.
LET THE modern psychologists and psychiatrists explain
these "hallucinations" as they will, I submit that hallucinations do
not endow us with supernormal perceptions, that they do not
enable us to contact so-called dead people exactly as though they
were alive.
My "mental radio" was awakened by my experience to such
an extent that I can tune in on the minds and· voices of those
in another dimension of Reality. I can carry on conversations
with them for myself or for others without trance of any kind,
proffer questions and get sensible, intelligent, and ofttimes in-
valuable answers.
40
And that brings me to the second great evaluation of my
experience and a hint of the true significance of what occurred
to me that night in its bearing on my career and on current
religious thought.
I have said that my life seemed at sixes and sevens up to the
moment when I turned my car back from that blind road at the
south side of Beverly Hills. I had let myself grow up a nervous,
cantankerous, disgruntled person, blaming my parents for what
I had missed, blaming God for not shedding more illumination on
a dark human pathway. But there was a deeper reason for my
disgruntlement than I have generally spoken or written about.
From the day that I left school, up to the morning of that motor
trip to Beverly Hills, I had felt that I was a misfit in life.
I couldn't find my true niche, and knew it!
Despite the fact that I was one of the best-paid short-story
writers in America, that from time to time I had made sums from
my novels sufficient to keep me the rest of my life, that my
success in the movie field was the envy of a great group of fellow-
writers, I had known for fifteen years that writing was not my
forte.
I puzzled and ofttimes nettled Manhattan magazine editors
when I would not settle down and work steadily at my vocation,
despite the demand that existed for my work. There is one
fiction editor in New York who took me severely to task time and
time again, because of my caustic and derisive attitude toward
so-called current literature as a vocation for a healthy, active man.
Again and again this editor argued patiently, calling my attention
to the good my stories had done people by their own comment
sent the magazine.
"Sitting down at a typewriter and pounding out words all day
is a fine job for a full-grown man!" I decried.
"What do you think you want to do? What is a real job?"
this editor would query me.
I would shrug my shoulders. I was inarticulate at something
deep inside me that would not form itself in words. "All I know
41
is," I would lament, "this isn't my job. It's bigger than this.
It has to do with vast masses of people, scattered all over the
earth. It isn't political and yet it seems to have something to do
with foreign nations. It has something to do with publishing on a
colossal scale. It has something to do with great hospital ships,
with the direction of some great philanthropic enterprise. Beside
it, this work of grinding out entertaining stories is puerile and
silly."
Again and again I registered the vague details of this larger
work, as far back in my life as 1907. I confided it to New York
friends in 1923. My particular editor friend would look at me
sadly.
"You're like the successful comedian who insists on playing
Hamlet !" I would be told. "You've got a market for a particular
line of fiction for which some writers would give their eye-teeth,
and you're contemptuous of it, and will only fill it as you're forced
by economic pressure to earn money. You ought to be ashamed
of yourself!"
I was doubly miserable in those times. How could I express
something that seemed just under the threshold of consciousness
but which would never quite come up where I could recognize
it for what it was?
I BROKE away from New York in 1923, almost scuttling a
publishing business that I had embarked upon there briefly in my
efforts to find The Thing that Plagued Me. I went to California
wondering if it awaited me there. Truth to tell, my disgruntle-
ment at life was as much due to this weird inward pressure, this
presentiment of a role I had to fill that I could not connect with,
as at my environment or my early background.
What on earth ailed me? Why did I feel stifled? Why did
I embark on business venture after business venture, only to see
it fritter out, or to leave it half-way toward the success it really
merited?
42
I know now that 1 was carrying in my subconscious mind a
one-hundred per cent conscioitsness of my Zife's brevet and was
anxiows to be at it, not k1wwing tha,t factors of Time and Situa-
tionr-not to mention self-development and self-balance-had to
be complied with, first!
When I turned my back on all that I had let myself become up
to the present, that morning in Beverly Hills, and went hunting
that bungalow in Pasadena, I was truly "remembering forward"
certain things I had to do to put myself deliberately on the main
track of my career. The months I spent in that bungalow before
the Main Experience came that started the brevet up out of sub-
consciousness, were only an interlude of quiet and repose prepar-
ing me for the true revelation.
I could not write this in The American Maga:zine at the time,
as part of my article. People wouldn't have understood. I could
not have written it at any time before the present moment.
But this thing happened-just as it may well happen to hun-
dreds of others in a similar predicament-with the awakening of
my psychical faculties as a result of the experience, the whole
progr1111n of my life came clear!
Call it that I had made a sort of Pact to come into mortal life, ·
accomplish a certain work and attain a given objective. All that
had gone before had been mortal, or physical, preparation for
that Job. Of course I had not been able to perceive it while
knocking through experience after experience. But at last I was
no longer inarticulate about my life.
I had certain things to do and stood now on the threshold of
concrete accomplishment !
IT BEGAN to come to me "psychically" soon after my return
from my first New York trip.
I first discovered that if I relaxed myself, and put myself in a
poised, acquiescent mood, someone would come and talk to me!
43
The Voice seemed like '.'fresh language drifting across the
mind." A sense of joy and exhilaration was felt. And when I got
pencil and paper and recorded, or dictated, the "instruction" I
found that I had taken down intelligence that by no stretch of
my own imagination could I possibly have composed, subcon-
sciously or otherwise.
Again I refer those who want the literal story of what I went
through in those first six or eight months, perfecting myself in
this gift of Clair-audience, to my monograph of papers "Why I
Believe the Dead A11e Alive!" But n!ght after night, month after
month, I was taking down amazing documents of the most pro-
found erudition: papers on theological origins, papers on cosmic
physics, on atomic energy, on racial histories of peoples who had
totally passed from the annals of men's knowledge.
Where was this material coming from? I had read no such
books. I had heard no one lecture on these subjects. I had found I
was getting material that in some cases augmented the most pro-
found modern sciences. Certainly I was getting answers to hun-
dreds of abstruse questions propounded to me by those who wrote
me about Seven Minutes in Eternity.
The matter mounted up, five hundred pages, a thousand, two
thousand!
What was I to do with it?
One night in the summer of 1929, the same Voice that had
addressed me in my California bungalow, directing me "to relax
and come back . . because you know well in your subconscious
mind how to do it" announced that with the forthcoming week I
shoJild commence the transcript of a lengthy book that would
be dictated to me and which when printed would go far toward
clarifying for my correspondents innumerable questions they had
asked.
I proceeded to take this book.
It came over in the form of a fictional presentation.
It was Golden Rubbish!
44
Geo. P. Putnam's Sons published Golden Rubbish in the fall
of that year. This is not the place to give the history of that
book or the strange reception it met with as contrasted with Seven
Minutes in Eternity. Sufficient to say here that it was the fictional
exposition of a young woman whose life had paralleled my
own up to that date, and whose awakening to the eternal verities
conveyed many things that could not be put in a personal article.
Regardless of the testimony I have since received that Golden
Rubbish has helped hundreds of persons greet the Great Beyond
with poise and peace, the book was scarcely heard from. Putnam's
published one edition and then abruptly discontinued it from their
list.
But long before Gold!en Rubbish was in type I was at work on
a second volume that was giving me no little concern.
This second book was emphatically not fiction, and it has never
seen type; it still lies in manuscript locked away in my files. It
consisted of about 400 pages of directly prophetic material, fore-
casting the events of the world in the next dozen years.
Now at last I began to perceive, in a sort of fearsome stupe-
faction, the true cause of my inward urges, my business fiascoes,
my temperamental disgruntlements at life, before May, 1928.
I was having my part and role in these events prognostica.ted for
me! For the first time in thirty to forty years I was learning facts
about myself and future that "clicked" with something inside me
that had always been too deep for uttera.nce.
THIS BOOK, with a mass of supporting discourses, began a
great castigation of the false religious concepts and systems that
had entangled human life and spiritual thinking, and lined the
peaceful precepts of the Christ behind great national armaments,
making for wars and rumors of wars.
It said that a complete and utter alteration of society was on
the make, to be ushered in with a great collapse on the bourses
of the world in the coming autumn. Bear in mind that I was
getting this in the summer of 1929 when the country was at the
height of its speculative prosperity.
45
I was told of secret events transpiring abroad, of the machina-
tions of great international financiers and statesmen, whose mo:ve-
ments were being carefully watched by unseen witnesses, whose
plans and conspiracies were known, who would not only bring
about a prolonged financial depression but who would make a
concerted attempt in time to overthrow constructive world gov-
ernments.
It was fully delineated in this book that a great contest was in
prospect. All the dark, malignant forces in the cosmos were lining
up for a great trial of strength with the white constructive Christ
Forces, and the contest would be cataclysmic. Humanity was to
be sharply divided into two great classes : those who were for
the Christ and all His works, and those who hated Him and would
try to defeat His people in flesh and put them in a sort of vas-
salage.
Page after pag{'., chapter after chapter, much of it too incredible
to believe at that time, with the interval for performance so short.
Then began to come out the true significance of Seven Minutes
in Eternity.
"You were given that experience," my unseen but plainly heard
monitors went on, "to acquaint you with the fact that you came
into mortal life some two-score years ago, to assist in this contest
on the worldly side. You belong to a Union of Spiritual Mentors
and Counsellors in the Higher Realms of Life whose mission it
is to guide humanity in times of this stress. You went into an
earthly body at a time that would allow you to go through the
experiences of adolescence and reach balanced maturity as the
Crisis neared. All of the experiences you underwent as a lad were
by foreordainment, to equip you mentally and spiritually for the
part that you and others must play in the ushering in of this
New Order among men. It was part of the Plan that you were
to be kept in ignorance of this role until the years had arrived
for you to function. That time is now at hand.
"You will find that during the next two years, through no
agencies within your control, you will be at the head of a great
spiritual movement, not only national but international as well.
46
You will be guided along strange avenues and into strange offices.
Be surprised at nothing! There are hundreds of your brethren
also in life with you. They do not all know their identities and
roles, anymore than you have known yours. But they will make
themselves known to you. There will be no mistaking them.
Together you will perform a goodly service to the present human
race and guide it out of its forthcoming quandaries under the
Greater Leadership of Jesus the Christ."
There was more, much more. But this was its tenor.
I submit that this sort of thing coming suddenly over the Cosmic
wire disconcerted me badly. I said little or nothing to my friends
about it, fearing an indictment for possessing an energetic superi-
ority complex. If I were getting accurate material from a trust-
worthy source, future events would show in proof. I would
simply wait and see.
In November the stock markets cracked, exactly as had been
foretold. Russia announced her Five-Year-Plan, exactly as had
been foretold. The great Atheistic Movement got under way,
exactly as had been foretold.
By the spring of the following year the Depression was upon
the nation and the world in earnest. Day after day I picked up
my morning paper to find headlines that tallied to a hair with
prophecies that had been given me privately months before.
I had to accept the designation and labors allotted to me, against
my will! But just how I was to cut into the international scrap,
just how I was going to be inducted into all this world turmoil, a
mere writer of fiction in a New York apartment, was wholly be-
yond me. How I was to head a nation-wide spiritual revival in
less than 20 months should have given any sane person cause for
abandoning the whole business as delusions of grandeur.
And yet the messages kept coming, more and more significant
of import. Information was being put into my hands that would
have been priceless to great financiers or captains of industry,
could they have realized how authentic and dependable it was.
And I could do nothing with it except to lock it away in files.
47
By May the responsibility of this material, plus the increasing
correspondence that was pouring in to me from all quarters of the
nation as a result of my continued psychic writings, persuaded me
that I should at least make some gesture to begin to get this intel-
ligence out to others.
Then again, people were sending me their psychical predictions,
which they were receiving night on night from their mentors,
and asking my opinion upon them. How could I tell them that
they tallied with mine to a hair? Something certainly was "on the
make" when such mysterious agencies were at work so accurately
to warn certain persons throughout humanity of what impended,
and what they were supposed to do to alleviate physical, mental,
and spiritual distress.
I had repeatedly been told throughout these months of tran-
script, what some of my own previous earth lives had been, when
I had done exactly this sort of labor before-and successfully.
Still, I could not accredit it because I had little in my conscious
mind that corroborated such declarations. The hard-headed New
England training I had received in business and newspaper work,
would not let me float around in clouds of grandiose delusions.
Thank God for that !
And yet I was worried. Supposing there were much that I
should be doing?
Supposing that all I was receiving was the trnest part of tru,th?'
The article in The A1nerican Magazine had long since sunk to
insignificance beside the overwhelming flood of psychical material
that was "coming over," directing me specifically in my affairs
and relationships, almost without a slip or falter. Much as it
meant to spiritually distraught persons about America to have
the attestment of a man in my position, the real crux of the
incident was indeed its aftermath.
Lest the skeptical doubt the origin of such material, and contend
that it had bubbled up from my subconscious, let me relate this
brief anecdote:
48
After one of my discourses one evening with a Great Brain
not now operating in a physical vehicle, I heard another voice
speaking in a language I did not understand. I asked the stenog-
rapher at my elbow to write out phonetically in longchand the
words of this strange language as I heard and repeated them.
Word by word she took them down, marking the vowel signs
properly so that later we might read them phonetically.
Twelve pages of this strange script were recorded. Several
weeks later I showed them to an erudite philologist who found
over a thousand words of pure Sanslzrit composing a sensible
message that had to do with the present-day happenings in world
affairs already spoken to· me in English! This was not wholly
the modern Sanskrit now used in some parts of India. It pur-
ported to come from an ancient Atlantean soul who declared he
had not incarnated in the mortal form for a period of 65,000
years. .. This message was given me in that ancient language pre~
sumably to refute those superficial scholars who delight to explain
one of Nature's most significant manifestations by naming it all
the "workings of the Subconscious" . .
And this Atlantean message bore out in detail the events still
in the future for America and for the world. One night I ex-
claimed with some stress :
"Just what is it that you on the Other Side of life are trying
to accomplish on this side through instruments like myself? Can
you give me a brief but trenchant agenda of exactly your goal
and purpose?"
Immediately this reply was dictated, swifter than it takes me
to copy it in this narrative :
"We are presenting through you and your fellows of Our Order
the complete delineation of a New World Society, politically,
sociologically, and religiously, building by a new terminology what
is the essence of that new society, not conceived by a few men
after their.own whims but as conceived by those who are planning
the new world state from the Higher Dimensions of Time and
Space...
49
"It encompasses a new World Program, beginning with the
standards upon which religious thinking is based as being the
starting point for the application of a new set of ethical and
sociological principles, both practical and academic...
"This grand work has not been conceived in a day but is the
outgrowth of a union of master-minds who have been many ages
conceiving and discarding from the fruits of both experience and
observation what is both wanted and needed in an entirely new
social order. ..
"This concept is two-fold in principle, making man to under-
stand his destiny here and making man to understand his destiny
hereafter- or to put it in another way, on both sides of the Veil
called physical death, for essentially there is but one life having
these two phases. .."
I WAS no longer skeptical as the spring of 1930 wore on, that
something should be done. So many corroborations were coming
in that what I had received was bonafide and accurate, so many
people were appearing strangely in my affairs, that I could no
longer ignore that I must indeed have a vital job to do, and the
sooner I tried it out, the better for all concerned, myself especially.
I must ignore the criticisms of little souls that knew nothing of
the gale in the wind and lamented that a passable fiction writer
had been ruined to make a questionable metaphysician. I must
push my New England practicality into the background for a
time, till I learned whether or not I was being definitely called to
that which my increasing messages implied.
My first experiment was to plan out some sort of periodical
that should be the means for feeling my way into whatever larger
work was awaiting ahead. I had long debated doing this, for my
plethora of mail was requiring detailed answers to questions and
problems of a spiritual nature that I could by no means answer in
detail. I had found that my monthly grist of letters, regardless of
the fact that the publishing of Seven Minutes lay months in the
background, grouped themselves into categories. Large numbers
of correspondents all wanted answers to practically the same
so
queries. What better way to reply to them than to take each one
of these categories, write my answers in the form of lengthy maga-
zine articles and then send my correspondents the maga-
zine containing such articles ? I had been for twenty years a
publisher. I knew the magazine field "inside out and through the
middle."
So in May, 1930, I brought out the first issue of The New Lib-
erator.
SoME people have said that I chose the title unwisely; that it
savored of a radical periodical and might be misinterpreted by
the very masses I wanted to reach.
But I was getting my instructions and knew what was being
worked out and why. I started a 48-page popular monthly, in
which I printed from issue to issue the most significant psychical
expositions I had received, answering the greatest number of
letters from people who asked for such information specifically.
The acclaim that greeted The New Liberator was instantaneous.
It began to connect me with persons about the nation whom I
recognized as being part of the Goodly Company implied in my
psychic admonitions. But it had not been running long, when
another development of far greater significance took place.
Certain advanced souls, reading The New Liberator from
month to month, gradually started writing me to the following
effect:
"We are reading between the lines of the articles in the maga-
zine that there is much which you are holding back. We can
appreciate that this is feasible and astute. But there are a great
group of us who consider ourselves sufficiently developed to
stand strong meat in the way of advanced instruction and we
are looking to you to advise us just what is ahead in worldly
event. Is there not some way that you can duplicate this ad-
vanced material and get it out to us privately, even if only in
mimeographed form?"
51
I received so many letters to this effect, from widely scattered
sections of the country, and from people unknown to one another,
that I finally decided I should act upon them.
The N ew Liberator had been running about a year when I sent
out a general announcement to its subscribers that on the 3rd
of May, 1931, I intended to prepare and mail to whomsoever
applied to me, a special set of Cosmic Lessons that should contain
material of a revelatory nature along the lines I had been getting
for a year, provided those who received those papers would get
little groups of truth-seeking friends about them and read thern
the material on its arrival weekly.I
THE FIRST lesson was mailed out on May 3rd.
Again the repercussion was instantaneous. Thirty people ap-
plied for the first paper, which meant that thirty groups were
getting the information all at the same time. The second week
this number became fifty. The third week it was a hundred. The
fourth week it was two hundred. By the beginning of the third
month, in the hottest part of the summer of 1931, in the midst
of increasing economic distress, the number was .up in the
neighborhood of three hundred.
And these were not "little groups of personal friends" seizing
on this cosmic information and devouring it avidly week on week.
The "instructors" whom I soon designated as Chaplains, were
soon hiring halls and auditoriums to accommodate the crowd
pushing in to hear the papers read....
Again psychical prophecy was com~ng true! Th.e messages
had said that within less than 20 months I would be "at the head
of a nation-wide spiritual movement having as its purpose the
guidance of humanity throughout the troublesome times ahead."
By September first I found myself sending out the weekly mes-
sages in printed form to thousands of people, and the staff to
attend to all the detail of the "movement" had outgrown the staff
of The New Liberator Magazine.
I had not wanted to start any new cult or sect. There were
far too many in existence already-to baffle and confuse humanity.
I had merely wanted to gather a goodly number of instructors
52
throughout the nation and pass on to spiritually hungry and
economically distressed people information of a supernal char-
acter apparently coming down from much higher and wiser planes
of life.
So I systematized these instructors under the name of The
League of Liberators.
AS I WRITE these words at the beginning of September, 1931,
I am confronting an autumn in which The League of the Lib-
erators may easily swell to a thousand audiences. Already there
is talk in certain quarters of using these Great Master Scripts
as the basis for the founding of The Church of the Liberation.
I may not be able to stop this movement. It is getting beyond
my control.
Personally I have other things of a more practical nature to
occupy my time. It is a far cry back to that May night in 1928
when I went upstairs to bed debating the origin, nature, and
reasons for races of men. I had reached a definite milestone in
my earthly career. Before morning agencies were to be at work
that were to start the uplift in my personal fortunes and func-
tioning, to the present moment.
People thought when I published My Seven Minutes in Eternity
in The American Magazine that it was merely the account of an
epochal spiritual experience attesting to the fact of human sur-
vival. I cannot go along further without admitting that the
publishing of Seven Minutes was merely the prelude to the
colossal task that is on the way: bringing home to the masses the
splendorful Illumination and Revelation that is to be made known
to all men everywhere, of the completion of the work of The
Christ in this our present generation.
For I have now seen too much transpire in worldly event, con-
firming all these psychic prognostications, to doubt my own
obligation undertaken prenatally, if such a thing is conceivable.
Humanity faces a terrific "plowing under" between the date of
this present writing and September, 1936. Why I set that latter
date specifically, I am not at this time allowed to divulge. But
those who are readers of The New Liberator Magazine, or attend-
53
ants on the Sunday night assemblies from Maine to California,
and from Michigan to Texas, have already gained an inkling of
the date's significance.
But that is not the end of the matter.
THE NEW LIBERATOR and The League of the Liberators
have brought me into direct personal contact with many of the
greatest public men in our nation. The significance of-the revela-
tions, the nature of the events lying ahead, confirmed by the trend
of the times, has attracted the notice of some of our leading
publicists, statesmen and industrialists. I find myself in this
late summer of 1931, spending as much of my time in Washing-
ton, D. C., as at our publication offices in Manhattan. I find
myself in constant consultation with a great group of advanced
students of the times who see only too clearly the "gale in the
wind," who know of the tremendous inroads that anti-Christ
influences and factors are making upon our national life. These
men are preparing to make some tangible move toward ameliora-
tion of conditions that are rapidly becoming insufferable.
This work is proceeding apace with every indication that before
the new year of 1932, it will become international in scope.
Already there are nearly a thousand teacher-executives or people
directly or indirectly interested in spreading the Liberation Mes-
sage throughout America. The New Liberator Magazine has
better than ten thousand readers an issue, and plans are being
perfected to publish it weekly.
All this work has grown with almost no missionary or pro-
motional work on my part, mostly by word of mouth advertising
on the part of those who for the first time in their lives have
found, or are finding, liberation from the doubts, fears, supersti-
tions, or inartistic misinterpretations of the old theological idea
that taught men they were as the dust of the ground instead of
being what Christ Himself designated them, sons of God, Christs
in their own right in a sort of earthly classroom....
My own part in the endeavor, however, as time goes on seems
to be one of increasing practicality and the counselling of very
real spiritual forces working in a practical way to bring about
54
better relations in society. I say this without self-aggrandize-
ment, holding no illusions about the drudgery, danger, and sac-
rifice entailed by the labor as it is definitely shaping for me to do
in conjunction with my friends of similar enlightenment.
Those who know me intimately from daily association will
attest that I have no Messianic Complex and do not for one
instant assume that the salvation of the human race in these
hours of its extremities, devolves upon me or any other individual.
I have simply come to realize the deep personal obligation entailed
by being the recipient of this material from some higher field or
arena of mentality, that works such spiritual wonders when
applied to the individual. I have seen far too many lives sal-
vaged, too many souls regain their faith and confidence in a
loving and constructive Deity, too many careers saved from
materialistic destruction by a proper understanding of what is
now "coming over" for me to doubt the inspirational character of
that which I have turned over to others as fast as it has been
given to me.
I know that there have incarnated in mortal bodies in this gen-
eration vast numbers of dark, satanic souls who are being liter-
ally driven down from the higher realms of light, who are mass-
ing their forces for a fresh onslaught on humankind that still
has faith in, and love for, the literal Christ Jesus. I know that
there is a literal, Christ Jesus who is marshal,ling, directing, and
leading the leaders of the Forces of Light. Stunning as the state-
ment may sound to those hearing of this New-Day Revelation
for the first time, and not aware of the great constructive agenciell
that are afoot, there are those among us, of great repute in this
nation, men of reliability not given to hallucinations who have
confronted Him in material,ized form in a nianner and form not
to be challenged.
Looking back now over the past forty years, I can see that
every bothersome circumstance in which I found myself en-
meshed, every business project which I essayed and which
crumbled to dust in my hands, most of the contacts I made
among persons who have affected my life, have all contributed
something to the equipment necessary to prosecute this greater
work and carry it on to a successful fruition.
55
The same mentors and guides who received me that night in
California are still with me, conversing with me evening on eve-
ning, although I am harkening less to the Voices now and more
to The Voice. I find myself, without self-invitation, without any
knowledge of the fact by the public, in the center and swirl of
the spiritual and industrial life of the nation, counselling leaders
in industry, reaching thousands of people weekly with the super-
nal intelligence that continues to come unerringly.
What other explanation can be put upon all this than that
there is a higher world of reality, peopled by those who truly
have the good of the mortal race at heart and are counselling it
out of its present woes and tumults into a fairer social state "when
all old things shall have passed away." ...
A GAIN I say, it is in no spirit of bombast, or any self-elation,
that I look back over the vicissitudes of the past three years and
view them in the light of what I feel obligated to do with those
who are about me.
For my associates have come on schedule as it was predicted
and promised they would come-devout men and women-each
motivated to join in the labor by strange occurrences in their
own lives, with which I had nothing to do. Funds are accruing
from equally strange quarters, from persons in many instances
whom I have never met face to face. Mysteriously the mails
turn up the "supply" with which to carry on and increase.
I believe the labor is The Christ's with all my heart, soul, and
body, or it never could be progressing as I am witnessing it
progress, day unto day and week unto week!
Humanity can only come out of its present woes and quandaries
at the behest of, and by the leadership, of a great group of Christ-
led men and women with a sincere love for the race in their
hearts, taking orders that are available from higher dimensions of
Time and Space, and acting upon them in concert with great
influences shed upon the race by those Colossal souls who have
the real destinies of the nations in charge.
It is a mighty task that we confront, but we go forward into
it secured by a faith attested by the materializations of events.
56
III
IT WOULD not be fair to close this strange story without
some sort of implication of what is coming about specifically in
circumstance to augment this enlightenment in permanent form.
One week-end back in August, 1929-months before the great
stock-market crash, before I had started The New Liberator Mag-
azine, and while I was still answering the flood of correspondence
that had accrued from publishing "My Seven Minutes in Eternity"
-I had gone to spend Sunday with an old iron-master interested
in psychical research in his home in Greenwich, Conn.
As we strolled about his estate in Sabbath twilight, he suddenly
asked: "Young man, if you had a quarter-million dollars presented
to you for the carrying on of your work, how would you expend
it?"
His question appalled me.
I finally answered: "Frankly, I don't know. At the present
time it's not clear in my mind just what the goal in this work is
to be."
"But," he argued, "you seem to be getting psychical material
that refers to something definite growing from your experience at
some future date. I know because of what you've read me today
before starting on this walk."
I said: "I have a premonition, but not of a nature to make
me say definitely what I would do with a quarter-million dollars."
To be truthful, the material that was coming over to me at that
time dealt with matters that I was having plenty of difficulty in
accrediting myself. I was being told of a coming crash on the
bourses of the world, of a period of prolonged depression that
would follow-prolonged by an international group of rapacious
individuals who were incarnations of dark souls in life to deliber-
ately block and thwart the Christ and all His works in the present
57
generation. I was being told the most intimate details of a Great
Contest that was in prospect on both sides of the Veil of Life,
when souls were to be divided into two great camps: Those who
believed in God, and Those who did not believe in God-who
would do all within their power to favor the works of the Anti-
Christ the adversary.
Recorded at a time when prosperity was at its height, when
our economists could not figure out the faintest chance for a de-
pression for at least five years, I was as puzzled and skeptical
about the validity of my material as anyone to whom I showed
it. I was in the center of a great flood of revelation myself; I was
having the final stages of my own awakening that should equip
me for aiding others later with theirs, and any period of action,
epitomized by a $250,000 endowment, had not yet arrived.
But I went home the next morning doing some galvanic think-
ing. Suppose that all I was being told was coming to pass!
It had been predicted in my material that within a scant two
years I would be in direction of a new movement for spiritual
awakening in this nation, whose adherents would run into thou-
sands. Within three years this was to become international in
scope and effect. Within five years it was to become so formidable
that it would constitute one of the most effective challenges in
this generation to the earth's dark atheistic forces, and eventually
bringing them down to defeat.
Being as human-and I hope as balanced-as anyone reading
this narrative, I was greatly perturbed. Were mischief-makers
plaguing me with delusions of grandeur? Did I have a secret
Messianic Complex of which I was unaware? By what miracle
could I, a writer of magazine tales in a New York apartment, be
raised to become a mouthpiece for a national or international
"spiritual awakening" within three years?
It was all too grandiose at the time and I had to wait and see
what developed. But even while pondering these predictions, I
was continually getting into plights as with my iron-master friend.
I was being called definitely to state my purpose and my goal.
And I could not state it because it was all too vague.
58
I gave the matter much thought that Monday. In the evening,
when the woman who worked with me transcribing the material at
my dictation, came in to take down our daily instruction, I told
her of my quandary.
"I am going to ask definite information of our Higher Friends,"
I said, "concerning where all this is bearing us and what definite
goal we should keep in mind in order to talk intelligently to
people like my host of yesterday."
I put my inquiry audibly, when we had prepared ourselves for
wntmg. Suddenly it seemed as though a magnificent vibration
began to grow in that room where we sat. I felt it in my body.
My companion felt it also. Someone of transcendant spirituality
had come down into that apartment and was standing invisible
beside us as we wrote!
At eight o'clock in the evening we began. It was long after
midnight when the transcript was ended. But before the first
half-hour had passed we discerned that what was being given us
was a sublime "Master Message" expounding in not-to-be-forgot-
ten terms the scope of our brevets.
A mighty foundation was coming from this enlightenment. It
was not to be as other foundations, dependant on the lengthened
shadow of one man's personality or wealth to render it secure in
the days that were to come. It was to be a steady amalgamation
of the Christ Forces on this planet, uniting themselves for new
nwnifestation !
Supplementary discourses gave me more specific details of how
this foundation was to come into being, and how it would function.
When I told my friends in the opening of the Assemblies for the
Liberation that I had no intention of starting a new cult, I there-
fore knew whereof I spoke. This was to be more vital than any
religious cult, bigger than any one person or set of persons. But I
could not reveal it until sufficient corroborative evidence had oc-
curred in event to make the general trend and outcome of the
whole gesture creditable.
59
In order that those hearing of this whole experience-and its
aftermath-for the first time may gain some idea of the character
of the communication that has been going on for the past three
years, and understand why I disclaim any charge of composition or
fabrication, I print in the pages immediately following the most
vital portions of the "Master Message" received that Monday
evening. I have deleted those lines or expoundings that I felt
were intended for me personally, that could hold no interest for
general readers.
I submit this beautiful document for what it seems to be worth.
Decidedly it has become a motivating factor in the establishment
of the significant institution I shall speak about presently-
60
IV
THE FOUNDATION MESSAGE
JSAY UNTO YOU, BELOVED: Pitch your tents among
the righteous; make your peace with the forsaken ; raise up
standards to the truth ;
2. I tell you, beloved, a Man cometh to you; He maketh a
mission of life-giving in circumstance ; He openeth His heart
and gathereth the nations ;
3. Long have they expected Him; the prophets of old have
sung of Him sweetly ; He raiseth up hope in the breasts of the
anointed;
4. His mission is great among peoples of earth;
5. He shall treat with men justly and shew them their birth-
right; He shall tell them the truth and it maketh them righteous.
6. My beloved, harken to Me: I am that Man!
7. I come in a chariot not drawn by beasts; I come. in a
radiance not seen of eye; I speak to My people and My people
give heed; I speak to the nations and the nations give ear.
8. Long have I suffered their transgressions of blindness; I
suffer no more that their blindness should blind them.
9. I speak to My people and My people know My voice; I
speak to Mine anointed and Mine anointed see My face; I speak
to My beloved and My beloved know My grace.
10. Harken to the promise: This is renouncement of those
who do folly;
11. Even as of old I said Peace when there was no peace, Joy
when there was no joy, Love where love prevailed not, so cometh
One who sayeth to you now : The mountains are opened, the
61
truth gusheth forth! hear ye My servants for verily they mawir
fest! they saty to you Peace!
12. Bind up your wounds, ye nations t treat with the circum-
spect in your thoughts and your actions t give heed to him who
suffereth, give joy to him who thirsteth !
13. Peace and contentment are the allotments of eternity ; en-
joyment of earth is the heritage of species.
14. Ether hath made Matter cycle raised on cycle ; peoples
have risen and peoples have fallen ; peoples have been given high
accretions of knowledge;
15. Lo, they have not benefited; each time have they misused
that which hath been given them.
16. Mankind hath demanded a higher resting-place in knowl-
edge; each time, My beloved, his malfeasance hath destroyed
him.
17. Cosmic principles have come to him times beyond count-
ing; each time he hath spurned them or used them wrongly in
his thinking.
18. Now cometh the closing of a cycle to earth!
II
HARKEN TO MY VOICE: I come bringing water, I come
bearing food.
2. Take these for your principles :
3. We seek to serve hwmankind in ways that suffice it in
pleasurable enjoyment of fiats eternal.
4. We do errands of mercy to mankind the s14f·erer.
5. We open doors of understanding to those who know not
God.
6. We open doors of peace to those who know not Christ.
7. Further we do not; this is our mission, our joy, and our
reward.
62
III
MY BELOVED, HEAR MY VOICE: Go ye forth into the
market-places and say : "The Lord hath need of substance!"
2. Thus do ye say it :
3. We build a firmer temple of truth than man hath known to
date;
4. We make no mock of principles celestial ;
5. We enjoin the times with deeds of mercy;
6. We open the storehouses of men's characters and find hid-
den therein the measures of truth;
7. We go from land to land seeking out those with the sign
on their foreheads, saying unto them: "Lo, ye are wise! make
known, we beseech you, that which ye know without fear or
fawning, testing your principles on the rock of great utterance,
standing on that rock and speaking your knowledge; stand forth
and speak it; give utterance to it mightily ; come forth with
truth, let the nations behold it!"
8. I say to you, beloved, the nations shall behold it.
IV
HEAR YE MY MESSAGE: Give heed to the voice of Him
who exalteth: "I have found the Light!"
2. Is he not of the Host that hath come into flesh ?
3. Ask of the nations : "Where are your ennobled ones? open
their mouths and give their speech utterance ; plant firmly on the
highlands the banners of your merit; concern yourselves with
treasure that no man overturneth !"
4. Go forth among the nations, preach to them of hope, of
brotherly concernment.
5. Join ye the nations in a th!r.all of understanding.
63
6. Take note of their leaders who stand on the heights that
they be the anointed who minister with service.
7. Hear ye My message: Rigor is needed to make speech to
the dark ones; force is required to coop their iniquities.
8. They shaJ,l be curbed from making niore mischiefs!
9. Rigorous indeed be thy thoughts toward the debased; lift
them up bodily; seize them with hands and make them sure-
footed, even in the light that scorcheth as it blindeth;
10. But transmit no chord, however worthy, that containeth
not the beauty of the sanctity of love!
11. Sing no anthem, My beloved, that hath not in its music
the delight of the anointed.
12. Say this unto men: "Lo, the times have come on you when
man shall know that he standeth or falleth by his own intestines
strengthened with mercy!"
13. He goeth forth to battle; perceiveth he that he warreth
against his own species ?
14. Make him to see it!
15. Say unto him: "Keep a great peace, live a great joy,
do a great deed !"
16. The times have arrived for man to know ennoblement;
they are ripe with understanding; harken not to the sluggard who
faileth to hear the voice from the dawn that hovereth on the
hilltop.
17. Say this unto man: "All over the earth are scattered a
host that maketh rejoicings that the goodly times be imminent";
.18. Know ye these persons: bring them together.
19. Perceive ye not that a great mission hath been instituted
among men in this generation?
64
20. . 01·ganize )l!e the spmts of God, not in worldly form as
armies led by earthly chieftains, but ra.ther as a kingly host, each
chamberlain having within himself a vassal.
21. Give heed to those who cry: "Behold that we perish in
that light cometh not!"
22. Lo, perish they not ; do we save them with much radiance.
23. Give heed to those who cry: "Sustenance we demand, for
our worldly souls are famished on the husks of benevolent in-
structions having in them no wisdom!"
24. Open your arms to those who come saying : "Use us for
the truth's sake!"
25. Give ear to those who say : "We would serve our Lord
gladly if we but knew our ministration!"
26. Give thought to those who exalt: "Let us sing a goodly
anthem, for we have had revealed to us the nature of the kingly
ones who do come to minister unto us!" ·
v
THESE THINGS I TELL YOU, MY BELOVE!): Go ye
forth into the world and say: "The Lord hath set ministers in each
land and clime ; He seeketh their ennoblement to raise them; let
their missions know fulfillment without hindrance from trying
circumstance!"
2. Go ye forth to the nations and say : "Give us of your
best ones, 0 ye lands, that they gather in a body and rebuke the
unanointed !"
3. Gather to yourselves your helpers;
4. Strike out boldly;
5. Plow you,r furrow!
6. These are the matters awaiting your hands.
7. God hath a goodly mission for the pure in heart; they do
65
stand upon street-corners now and implore the passing throngs ;
presently they shall stand upon battlements and hurl down the
legions that do march against pure doctrine.
8. Presently come to you chamberlains of finance bearing
goodly gifts ; thus treat ye with them :
9. "We gather for a purpose, gentlemen of affluence, under
the banner of One who hath sent forth His fiat: All is of
instruction!
10. "We come seeking earthly ways and means of making the
ignorant see the banners of truth approaching and know of their
significance;
11. "We study ways and means of righteous dealings with the
nations, not being as students at petty parables and charms, but
as strong men looking on life as a problem to be solved in equity,
each man to his neighbor;
12. "We seek a conclave of mighty souls who preach of truth
to the nations of men, each one from his mountain height, and
rally the hosts of His earthly ministers into concrete activity that
is accredited of men;
13. "We seek no humble lot for these are great professions;
14. "We say unto men: The times are on us when the goodly
souls of every land must share their heritage in common;
15. "We come bearing gifts among the races, bespeaking the
loud word Peace! that the warlike meet their Conqueror, that all
who suffer may know release ;
16. "This is otir mission, gentlemen of affluence!"
VI
SPEAK YE FURTHER TO THE CHAMBERLAINS: "We
go into every land and clime and behold the needs of the world's
forgotten;
2. "We publish them abroad among the righteous and offer
them love in place of tumults ;
66
3. "We send them ships of supply instead of armaments; we
send them vessels loaded with mercy instead of guns t0> level
their. homesteads!
4. "We stand forth boldly, saying: The times have come for
rigorous education of the multitude, not in concepts or precepts,
but in mighty visions of eternal truths manifesting in all men's
hearts.
5. "The nations, we say, have a gift in common: Peace and
Understanding of Why Life Should Be So;
6. "We treat with them, gentlemen, finding in each nation the
learned ones, the young men, to whom is given the knowledge of
the Life That Is To Be when warfare shall have ceased and
men have known their heritage. .
7. "This is our mission : Peace! Mercy! Knowledge! the
tenets of understanding, the planks in the eternal platform of
love!"
8. Say this mightiiy to the nations in every land and clime: we
seek the enlightened ; we say to them:
9. "How best can ye serve those who are about you, taking
no thought for yourselves, manifesting no hope that is not of
knowledge of the .truth within yourselves, leading each man to
the fountain-head of knpwledge as it pleaseth him?"
10. We make a world shibboleth of this, our program: Peace!
- Mercy !-Knowledge !-all given us for giving!
VII
MY BELOVED, I CHARGE YE WITH A CHARGE: Out
of the mouths of those who suffer cometh a cry to the halls of
affluence.
2. Dp ye readjust the balance!
3. Give unto him that rejoiceth with you, that he may rejoice
the more in thanksgiving that ye are in your flesh, in My name
ministering.
67
4. Take this with you to your conclaves, wheresoever they may
be.
5. The Lord hath called every man in his own right, even as
ye have been called, My beloved; him will ye know by the sign on
his forehead ;
6. Use him as it pleaseth you ; turn ye his hands to the handles
of the plow;
7. Give him of your wisdom;
8. Rebuke him not for error but praise him for the depths of
beauty found within his soul!
9. Use him, I say unto you, knowing that it will be well with
you in your wisdom how to use him.
10. Ye are called to do a goodly work in this, My vineyard;
the laborers await, each one for his hire, being eager to labor,
each one at his price.
11. That price is knowledge.
12. Pay it to him richly, pressed down and overflowing; treat
with him according to his talents and let him be known as an
employe of the Host.
13. For verily that he is, till the goodly days are ended.
14. I speak as one, belqved, who hath an understanding.
15. Hosts of men come to you and ask of you assistance; treat
with them mightily; thus make speech to them:
16. "What canst thou do in the land wherein thou dwellest, to
raise that land to a knowledge of the Godhead in peace, supply,
and wisdom?"
17. Treat not with him that sayeth: "I am of the Host already,
for do I not pray daily for deliverance from mine error?"
18. Say unto him: "And what doest thou whilst thou prayest,
or afterward?"
68
19. Consider the ways of those who till the soil even of human-
ity; what seed sow they? have they knowledge of cosmic truth?
have they knowledge of eternal principles? have they knowledge
of ether and its manifestations? or sow they seeds of bitterness,
of strife, of petty malfeasance and injurious attraction, one nation
toward the other?
20. Question those who come to you; ask of them their wis-
dom; ask of them their vision; translate to them the knowledge
which ye have and observe their bickerings when ye have expressed
yourselves.
21. Is it not true that they will say unto you: "These are your
concepts; lo, we have others equally as great !"
22. Know, My beloved, that they are workers of confusions;
they have not the wisdom;
23. The wisdom sayeth: All men are brethren;
24. Only one truth is permitted to men: that they shaJl love,
and love, and love again.
25. Tell ye them this and observe their concernments.
26. If sobeit they say unto you : "These things we know and
rejoice at!" take them into your arms and your bosoms; make
them of merit in your company, manifesting to them all the sweet
joys of fellowship, treating not with them as slaves but as breth-
ren, opening your coffers and giving them ~upply.
27. Tedious, tedious, are the wanderings of the souls that
seek for wisdom; tedious, tedious, are the wonderings of the
souls that seek for leaders.
28. Say not unto them: "Behold us, your leaders !" say unto
them rather: "Ye are leaders in your own rights where it be that
ye may travel."
29. Say unto each man: "Lead thou in thy chosen circle and in
thy leadership be great."
69
30. For leadership hath a: quality that sayeth: "Go ye and
manifest; I do follow to protect you."
31. Seek not him who sayeth: "I am leader of the present,"
but seek him who sayeth to you rather: "I am searcher after
knowledge."
32. Tell him that searching marketh him for leadership under
the Captain whose banner is service.
33. The Captain awaiteth without, seeking His followers not
in halls of revelation so much as in the byways of silent hunting
after treasure.
34. Tell him who asketh of you for leadership: "Thou art
leader in thine own right, arise and execute the commission given
thee; for who hath better right to lead than he who sayeth: "Mas-
ter, I follow and take others with me!"
35. I bid you take My company and lead it to a high, high
place where all nations see your benevolence marking you out as
captains of service, verily, verily, till your earthly days be ended.
36. Catch ye the vision? act ye upon it!
37. See ye the tapestry resplendent with colors? make it a car-
pet for your goings, that your feet may tread joyously and the end
be fulfillment.
38. When the goodly days shall come, then shall men rally
around those who have taught them to pray: Our Father, who
art in heaven, give us of Thy wisdom;
39. Give us this day our daily illumination to light the way of
feet that do falter;
40. Give us this day not our daily bread but bread for those
who hunger more than we do;
41. Lead us not back into quagmires of ignorance for such
is not Thy nature, but send us ennoblement that we may manifest
our dignity, our wisdom, and our vision, to unborn generations;
70
42. Peace and a goodly heritage be upon the nations ; this our
prayer we pray in tranquility that those who say it after us may
live it in their intercourse!
VIII
I BID YOU RISE UP AND KNOW THAT I ADDRESS
YOU: It behooveth you to know that a goodly company awaiteth
its captains, awaiting them long in the byways of service.
2. Peace! I say unto you ; a goodly prospect awaiteth your
VIS!On.
3. Abide ye in the faith that maketh the race a race to be
run for the sake of the running, not for awards bestowed at the
goal.
4. \N'hat need have ye of more than this, beloved?
5. Peace be unto you and the little band awaiting you, making
you to shine as meteors when the skies are full of darkness.
6. Presently I go to the Father who sayeth: "What of the
earth and the peoples thereon ?"
7. Then make I reply: "The times and the seasons are ripe
for achievement : the goal is in sight and the running Ennoble-
ment."
8. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, ye who run with Me; for
we have made promises each to the other, that maketh that en-
noblement a prospect in reality.
9. Choose ye whom ye will serve, ye peoples, God or Mammon!
lo your service marketh you forever.
10. So let it be till the evil days are ended.
11. Come I to all of you in due cycle of event ; not in spirit
but literally ;
12. For My spirit ye have always!
13. I pronounce on you My Peace!
71
v
SUCH WAS the sublime document-or what I choose to hold
as a sublime document- that first crystallized my thinking into
making a definite gesture toward the amalgamation of a Great
Christ Force, international in scope, that should throw the gaunt-
let to the satanic influences now seeking the perversion of our
current civilization.
As I have previously written, I have neither the time nor the
space to rehearse here the auxiliary and supplementary discourses
recorded over thirty months that have clarified the instruments
and agencies, the means and the methods, by which this Inter-
national Christ Force could make itself a juggernaut in the present
generation.
In my secular pursuits and investigations I have come to the
conclusion that the Christ people of Christendom do not know
their own strength! If they knew their own power to act in
concert for true righteousness, their sufferings would be ended.
They are lost in a maze of erroneous teachings, hoodwinked
by false leaders who deceive or default on them when those leaders
stand to. gain in personal profit, unable to obtain the pure instruc-
tion-even from secular sources-necessary to free them from
their fears and doubtings.
Evil men, using instruments and agencies that no Christ Person
can employ, conspire to hold them in an economic bondage, de-
bauching intellect and the public press into accepting that such
economic bondage is beyond all the factors in human control.
The truth of the stupendous beauties Behind Life in Mortality is
besmeared and befouled by heathenish doctrine that it savors of
diabolism to probe for reality or learn of existence in its post-
mortem aspects.
These things I have realized, not only from my own trans-
cendant "studies" but from people sent to me on schedule, exactly
72
as it was predicted to me psychically that they would come, who
had wide worldly knowledge of what was transpiring beneath
mundane affairs.
At the same time I have come to realize that the moment I
became in any wise a power that challenged the capacity of the
Beast in these earthly agencies, no amount of effort, money, or
social pressure would be spared to discredit and besmirch me, to
suppress or si~ence me!
In this day of great publicity agencies controlled or intimidated
by utterless selfish forces, it is only necessary to criminally libel
and besmut one who suddenly rears above the heads of the crowd
with a new message of liberation, to deal him a death-blow and
render him impotent. There is rarely any redress from such
agencies of publicity. Once you seriously threaten the domina-
tion of these dark, selfish, atheistic forces, you are marked for
swift elimination.
I know of one outstanding case, fully documented, of a brave,
beautiful, and patriotic woman who nearly succeeded in building
a national organization to combat these atheistic forces in the
political and industrial life of our nation. She was gaining to a
power that threatened the complete exposure and destruction of
the diabolical "boring from within" influences seeking at this
very moment to undermine the foundations of our government.
What happened?
Backed by millions of money, these satanic interests succeeded
in having a false photograph of her distributed throughout the
news pages of the nation, with a wholly fabricated account of her
alleged indiscretions, making her out a dangerous adventuress
subtly in the employ of the various agencies she was successfully
combating. She brought criminal libel suit against the news-
papers that had so besmirched her. But that suit was mischiev-
ously dragged along for four years, exhausting her finances and
breaking her health. Finally her following, unable to hear her
side of the story or accredit the diablerie arranged against her,
accepted the accusations made in the press. She was forthwith
discredited. Her power disintegrated. At the erid of the four
73
years she won her suit for vindication, the jury giving her a ver-
dict of one cent and the papers that had lent themselves to her
destruction printing six-line retractions on their inside pages
among their advertisements!
And it broke her heart and killed her.
I have learned, not from psychical sources so much as secular
contacts among the forces making for law and order in the nation,
that the very size and might of these dark forces renders them
chimerical to the average person. And thus the campaign of
intimidation goes on. Those who cannot be used unwittingly as
a "front" for their operations, are debauched financially, criminally
blackmailed, or in the last analysis mysteriously destroyed.
Many have commented upon the fact that there has been little
or no publicity in the nation's press concerning this inception of
the League for Liberation. I have purposely avoided and dis-
couraged all such till I got my plans completed-or advanced to
a point-wh'ere the work could pyramid and grow into an unstop-
pable juggernaut irrespective of the attacks that rnight be founched
at me personally.
I do not expect wholly to escape them. I have been told psychi-
cally that they would come, and something of their nature. I
should not be surprised to see a campaign of intimidation against
my associates in the field mysteriously begin-religious interests
being used as the blind tool of these satanic forces to embarrass
these associates. Attacks against my personal character and san-
ity will probably come. It is psychically predicted, not alone by my
own mentors but through other sensitives, that three attempts will
be made on my life.
I can look at the whole campaign of vileness and vituperation
with equanimity, however. I know the year that I am going
back onto the Other Sid•
e to remain for go·od with the work com-
pleted, and how I am to go! The old saying, "A man destined
to die of the cholera cannot be hanged as a horsethief," has a
cryptic application to my own life.
74
Nevertheless, having taken this m1ss10n very seriously now
because of the proofs in circumstances that have come again
and again on schedule, I have a certain respect for the grimness
of the contest to be waged. And to make the distress as small
as possible, I have tried to minimize my own importance insofar
as I could in the work's initial stages.
There are now thousands of people who have been faithfully
attending Liberator Assemblies week after week, reading The
N e-.v Liberator magazine month after month, who have accepted
that I have merely been completing this chain of assemblies as I
edited my magazine.
Many others who are affluent have sincerely desired to donate
large sums of money for the growth of this movement but who
have been hesitant, or kept silent, knowing that injury to me, or
my elimination, might mean the loss of all that they presented.
But throughout the past year-I am completing this re-write of
The Aftermath to Seven Minut'es in Eternity in early September,
1931-I have been assiduouly working not to found a new relig-
ious cult, or another sectarian denomination, but to project this
new doctrine on an educational and academic basis !
It is time to make the nation-wide annoimcement that there has
come into potential existence what amounts to A GREAT
CHRISTIAN UNfVERSITY-THE COLLEGE OF CHRIS-
TIAN E(:ONOMY AND SCHOOL OF COMPARATIVE
RELIGIONS!
WE HAVE had Domestic Economy, we have had Political
Economy.
Why have we never had Christian Economy or the Science of
Applying the Principles and Precepts of the Christ to the Mun-
dane Circumstance ?
During this summer of 1931 a benefactress in Manhattan has
made a tender of 100 acres of mountain land in one of our
Atlantic States. On this property-if the Plan is not changed by
Higher Agencies- despite the Depression that is now upon the
75
nation, in the teeth of all opposition and obstruction because I
believe the work is being motivated by agencies above human
influence, those who have caught the vision from the private doc-
uments and discourses I have shown them, will go forward with
the construction of buildings of beauty, wherein shall be taught
all those courses of enlightenment now rigorously opposed or
suppressed by those worldly systems that stand to lose caste by
Real Truth beco'IWing known!
A great instructional body, a great publishing plant, a great
gathering-place for the finest Christian minds of the earth, will
be brought into existence and function in times sadly in want of
what they have to give in the spirit of Christ-Service.
It is necessary to have a safe and permanent repository for
the original versions of such manuscripts as offered in this mono-
graph several pages back.
It is necessary to have a postgraduate course where those who
wish to prepare themselves for making this teaching their life-
work may gather together under competent instructors and be
privately taught what cannot be revealed to the crowd as a mass.
There is a necessity for a great investigational body that shall
truthfully and sincerely delve into the religious records of the
past and bring to light without fear or favor the error in the
doctrines that have plunged humanity into this cruel hiatus of
Christian belief.
There is a necessity for a university body that shall forthwith
investigate psychical phenomena as it deserves to be investigated
-in constructive psychology--exploring behind life on a basis
of belief in survival instead of disbelief and seeking to demon-
strate that all "sensitives" are charlatans.
There is a necessity for a great quasi-medical fraternity that
shall study and explore the phenomena of subjective insanity,
equipping and qualifying physicians and psychiatrists, and the
heads of institutions dealing with lunacy in all its forms, to treat
with obsessions and possessions by accrediting the existence of
malign discarnate forces.
76
There is a necessity for a great educational institution that shall
preach, not a Christ dead by crucifixion, but a Christ Alive and
Dominant in the economic and industrial affairs of men, thwart-
ing the dark, destructive, atheistic forces of this nation and all
nations in their anti-Christ activities.
There is a necessity for an institution promulgating these en-
lightenments, that cannot be debauched or controlled by secular
worldly interests, with a charter so drawn that no persons can
gain to power within its directorate who are not American citi-
zens by birth, of proven Christian faith, incapable of being in-
timidated, with militant ideals of sobriety and integrity working
to make personal honesty and circumspect conduct popular again
in the Body Politic!
There are millions of Christian people in this country of every
creed who are tired of the false, the base, the untrue. They
hunger for a return to the high ideals, the clean behaviorism, the
personal reliability of their fathers who made this nation great.
They do not want any return to an intolerant Puritanism or sanc-
timonious theology. They want a standard of living raised before
them that shall overwhelm and drive to cover all those disinte-
grating influences in our national life that are cheapening their
culture and debauching their offspring.
The psychological time has arrived for a reflex swing of the
pendulum of society into constructive, ennobling channels, that
the honest man may know his antagonist, that the honest religion-
ist may distinguish his God. A chaotic but titanic mass of
Christian Americans is ready to answer to a battlecry that
means the end of gunplay in our streets, spoliation of our daugh-
ters, the defilement of our homes, the undermining of our gov-
ernment-all by the instrumentalities and financings of forces
avowedly atheistic, haters of the Christ and all His works, who
declare that they will have Christian humanity groveling on its
knees within this generation.
Praise God there are those whose eyes are being opened.
They know the challenge of The Beast.
That challenge they accept!
77
Q NLY a dominant Christian institution that stands four-square
behind the Man of Galilee, that presents a rallying point for
those vast constructive forces, that epitomizes an oscillation back
to decency and honor without sanctimony or loss of that sense of
humor that is always the lubricant of the spirit of love, can deal
effectively with these problems of our times.
Humbly and contritely, as God gives me strength and acumen,
as I hear The Voice in silence, I propose to· found such an instif14-
tion within the coming autumn!
I propose to make every Liberator Assembly in every city and
town throughout this nation a weekly Extension Course for those
who cannot attend such a school in person.
Every Liberator Assembly in America, no matter how large, no
matter how small, I propose to make a living, breathing, dynamic
force for constructive Christian Idealism in its community, throw-
ing behind each one all the enlightenment, all the erudition, all
the gleanings from deep research and investigatory work that
such a university can command and direct, offering the humblest
Christian seeker in the smallest hamlet that wealth of unbiased,
uncolored learning for which his soul is famished.
I hope it is no delusion of grandeur of which I am guilty in
suddenly realizing that my psychical material has proven its
validity in secular event, and that this is the lifework to which
I am called-the vague, intangible, but irrepressible brevet to
which I felt myself headed when I registered with my editorial
friends years ago that tapping out fiction stories on a typewriter
was not the job I had entered life to do. It was just under the
threshold of consciousness then, tormenting me. Now it has all
come clear.
I know this project is to become a reality because I am already
in touch with the men and women who will make it a reality.
They have not only assured me of their loyalty and support, but
in many cases persons of great erudition and importance politi-
cally, industrially, religiously and socially, have already foregone
attractive worldly offers to consecrate the remainder of their
78
lives to this ideal. My plans have come to that stage of fruition
where-even were I discredited or eliminated tomorrow-the
founding of this institution would go onward to actuality.
And no power on earth or from hell can stop or alter that
· which is thus decreed by these Higher Forces, gathering this clan
to perform this worthy office.
It is not a church that I seek to found, but a University of the
Future, a university whose students shall go out over all the
earth and "organize the Spirits of God, not in worldly form as
armies led by earthly chieftains, but rather as a kingly host, each
chamberlain having within himself a vassal!" ...
I am taking my commission seriously in this : that an organiza-
tion can be perfected so self-supporting that it solicits no funds
from the coffers of Mammon, so inspired by direct contact with
those above the earthly predicament that its ministrations shall
be felt to the ends of the earth.
I say I have tenders of service from men and women of erudi-
tion, adepts each one in his or her line, to staff such a college :
Christian people of unquestioned loyalty to the American Ideal
without fanaticism, without race prejudices, without obligations
that make them vulnerable to intimidating influences. I know
that Great Forces that have proven themselves in my own affairs
are operating behind the lives of these men and women to turn
their talents to this labor and make its Extension possible with
millions of money. And those same Forces are awakening the
possessors of that money, making them realize that their wealth
has never been their own but was put in their hands in trust for
this spiritual enhancement of the peoples of our times.
It is no smug academic institution that I would found. I would
start no school that hides itself and its students away from the
world to advance the tenets of some freakish doctrine. I would
project a living, forceful, dynamic organization of Christ-Workers
in a new social order, that will 11iake each of the present Liberator
Assemblies or Study Classes a contact point for its work <Mnong
the masses.
79
It will train men and women in all those studies and sciences
now considered forbidden in orthodox institutions seeking to
uphold an archaic social fabric.
And most of the instruction promulgated thus, would continue
to come from the sources from which has come the instruction to
the assemblies up to the present... .
so
VI
AND THIS is the undeleted story, and the real significance
of the episode that has been publicized throughout the globe as
"My Seven M~nutes in Eternity."
My dear friend Will Levington Comfort, the novelist, has been
generous enough to acdaim the whole experience as "the story
of the Age." Perhaps! I do not know. I am still too close to
it-there is still too much work to be done.
Insofar as the discarnate part of the experience was concerned,
let no one draw the conclusion that contact with these higher
forces is impossible unless one is chosen to write a book, publish
a magazine or found a college. I know too many hundreds of
people, in all walks of life, who have had the same colossal adven-
ture-who have established the same communication-and who
have no call to do more than apply the profits resulting to their
individual lives and experiences.
But in my own case, step by step, denouement by denouement,
this work has grown. And now I am coming to see that every
experience which I underwent in life prior to that night in Cali-
fornia, every business venture that seemed to turn out abortive,
every personal contact I made with persons of every type of
mentality, all happened specificcdly to give me an additional bit
of equipment for that labor which now lo-oms.
l recall that at one time I was especially disgruntled that I had
·been drawn into the ownership and management of a chain of
restaurants in Southern California. Why on earth, I wondered,
should I have become embroiled in a restaurant proposition-
which diverted my attention from more important activities and
cost me no small amount of money. One night in my com-
municating, I asked. The answer came back: "To give you an
education in feeding people in large numbers in situations that
are yet in the future !" And so it has gone. . . .
81
Money, talent, and property, is now coming in from all quar-
ters of the country, to make this epochal enterprise an overwhelm-
ing success. The weird phase of these gifts in many instances is
that many of the donors are "sensitives" themselves who declare
they have been acquainted with this work, and the validity of the
agencies behind it in other dimensions of Mafter, by voices that
have spoken directly to them, advising them to become connected
with it, with least possible delay. ·
Those who accuse me of coinmercializing my awakened senses
in the aftermath of the experience, are speaking from a lack of
knowledge of me or the facts. When I lay down to sleep tl1at
night in California three years ago, I had a comfortable little
estate that figured up in the neighborhood of $100,000-property,
securities, business interests and cash. I had a writing vocation
that paid me something like $25,000 a year. The losses I have .
since taken, directly traceable to the disruption of pulling up
stakes in California and coming East to devote my life to this
enterprise, have consumed every dollar of my estate - even
plunged me in debt. My earning power as a writer has totally
vanished, due to the fact that most popular publishers are fearful
of stirring up the mare's nest of interest which The American
Maga.z·ine stirred up by printing literary material over my name.
If it is not material similar to "My Seven Minutes in Eternity"
their readers are disappointed and disgruntled. If it is similar,
they are in for a deluge that they would not invite.
There is not the slightest self-pity or regret in ·the statement
that from an earning capacity of $25,000 a year, I have dropped
to a revenue of about $35 a week, taken out of the receipts from
the work for my personal living expenses.
That much for "commercializing" my abnormal "talents." ..
I am giving my life now to another type of work entirely. And
I am radiantly happy in so doing. I have found the thing that lay
just under the threshold of my consciousnt!ss for so many years
and caused me so many midnights of heartburn.
82
Perhaps after another three years has passed, I shall re-write
The Aftermath to Seven Minutes in Eternity again. In another
three years I may have personal experiences and developments
to add which make this foregoing account puerile and inane.
I know that what I am doing now constitutes a glorious adven-
ture that can only be a constructive gesture in our advancing
civilization.
Certainly no university of this age, or any other age, has at-
tempted to carry subdivisions of itself into the cities, towns, and
hamlets of the country in which it exists, calling people of limited
means together in great masses to hear the latest reports of its
findings and instruct them in the latest developments of scientific
Chri!ltian truth.
No great university of this age, or any other age, has opened
·its doors to those who simply want instruction in the Great Facts
Behind Life, irrespective of their years or previous academic
schooling.
It is a University of the New Order that my associates would
aid me in projecting, welding into a sensible reality all those con-
structive agencies in society that make for a higher Christian
Idealism, devoid of theological limitations, looking at life as a
problem to be solved in equity, each man to his neighbor.
We shall try to bring to humankind the Christ-Force in action,
going out into the highways and byways among all nations, "seek-
ing the Enlightened ones, the young men, to whom is given a
knowledge of the Life That Is to Be when warfare shall have
ceased and men have known their heritage."
But it is not another pacifist society-that would usher in
peace by serving banquets-that is now in process of erection.
No participation is asked in councils of nations while those coun-
cils are in any way dominated or intimidated by the dark souls
ensconced in mortal flesh.
We come in clean, frank patriotism- in selfless devotion to the
One Who Knew Gethsemane-in high, fine confidence in a God
who knows and rules the nations-and without fanaticism, in
83
sober sense and logic, offer our lives to a Monument of Intel-
le-ct erected to world fellowship purged of the adversary.
And we overlook not, nor rr· · nize, the final lines of the Master
Message that first sent this g,_ .ure into crystallized form-
"So be it till the evil days are ended. Come I to all of you in
due cycle of event, not in spirit but literally, for My spirit ye have
a.Zways!"
I aver that I know it.
I have lived, as I am living now, for a time in eternity!
84
