{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n10_was_there_actually_garden_of_eden.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N10 Was There Actually Garden Of Eden","mylang":"de"}
Im
asks**
Thel
GALAHAD
LECTURES
“W as There a Garden
of Eden?”
BEING THE TENTH OF
The Galahad Lectures
HE GALAHAD LECTURES constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric History of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first forms of human.life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantecm and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer of 1932 and have been recorded
and preserved in this form for students o f1
the Foundation Fel­
lowship. C! The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of Metaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in Mortality and for accurate
knowledge of the soul’s enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth. ~
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BY PE1JLEY
PUBLISHERS OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA POSTOFFICE BOX 2630
SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE LIBERATION
SCRIPTS ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR i f ONE
HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE IN
­
STRUCTION TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY &
"Was There a Garden of Eden ?"
TENTH LECTURE
i COME in this Discourse to a subject that has
caused more religious dissension than almost
any other question in theology except per­
haps the nature of the Trinity: Was there
actually a Garden of Eden? It has remained
the cornerstone of Fundamentalism. Millions
of people affect to believe that the Third
Chapter of Genesis is authentic in its state­
ment of literal fact, that God, as a glorified
human being, made a garden on this planet in
which He placed two human creatures that
Hehad fashioned, a man called Adam and a woman called Eve. The
narrative that is the basis for this belief, declares that God made a dirt
m
ansomewhat after His own physical pattern, and got him animated
andsentient by breathing into his nostrils the Breath of Life. These
twopoor creatures ran around at first as naked as little babies. They
couldgoanywhere in the wonderful garden, play with the animals and
eatofthe fruits they found hanging from the trees. But there was one
treewhose fruit they must not touch: the Tree of Knowledge of Good
andEvil. In the day that they ate of the fruit of that tree, they should
die. Jjr
Thestory goes that this first “innocent** man, too dumb to know that
heand his mate were naked, yet having the wisdom to give names to
all the animals, had a grand time for a few days or weeks, although
just what they did with their time after the novelty of their predica­
mentwore off is not made clear by the text. Presently Eve, in wander­
ing around, came to the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil.
3
JAN 3! '41
Apparently, coiled around the trunk of that Tree was a good-*;
snake. W e might term it a python. A peculiarity of this snake^
that it possessed human speech. It entered into conversation JS*
Eve, saw her cast longing eyes at the fruit of the Tree, and askedf
c
what kept her from helping herself to as much as she wanted. §L
related to the precocious python the Almighty’s admonitions.
“He doesn’t know what H e’s talking about,” the serpent told E
v
e
“Go ahead and eat all the fruit that you want. I do it every day,jy
do 1 look dead?”
No, the python didn’t look dead— although one is left to wonderh
o
w
Eve knew what death was, never having encountered it up to th
e
moment. She sampled the fruit and, not dropping lifeless, hurried
to her husband and shared it with him, as every good wife should.
They had a wild time visiting the Tree, like a pair of m
ischievous
children. And then the snake scuttled. He had done his m
ischief;
let these humans pay the penalty.
Finally in the cool of the day, God came walking in the Garden. F
o
r
the first time since He had indulged Himself in this little hobbyo
f
turning mud people into sentient human beings, He couldn’t fin
d
them. So He lifted up His voice and called to them. The sacred
narrator forgot that God, being omnipresent, ought to have know
n
where they were and what had gone on, without waiting for thep
a
ir
to come out of hiding and explain themselves. Anyway, Adaman
d
Eve came out of hiding, and they were dressed in garments of leav
es.
C
J God took a look at these garments of leaves, and their avertedfaces,
and knew on the instant that something was wrong. “Why arey
o
u
wearing those things?” cried God. “Because we’re naked,” sa
id
Adam sheepishly. “Who told you so?” the Almighty demanded.
Then the fat was in the fire.
DAM tried to alibi himself that Eve had offered him some
fine ripe fruit, and that he hadn't seen any reason why
he shouldn’t eat it like many other choice morsels she
had brought from other trees. Anyway, he had eaten,
and an instant later looked down at himself and realized
in horror that he ought to have on pants. Eve had taken
a look at herself and scuttled for the nearest bushes. It was all a
troublesome, mystifying business, and, all things considered, it was
plain to the hapless Adam that his first sleep must have been his last
repose. Eve had gotten him into one devil of a mess. One look at
God’s face told him that the Almighty was mad enough to tear the
serpent limb from limb, provided it had limbs—when He heard Eve's
alibi in turn—and the upshot of the whole business was that God
threw the pair out. Out of Eden. Check!
Out of Eden they went, bag and baggage. No more loitering around
in the sunshine, playing leap-frog in their birthday suits and chasing
bothered animals. Something had gone wrong and thunder and
lightning was to pay. All because one Tree in that garden shouldn’t
have its fruit filched.
We are treated subsequently to further enigmas. God had said in
the beginning, when He put the pair in the Garden, that if they ate
the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil they would surely
die. When they actually had eaten of it, however, He forgot the
threat that He had made. Anyway, they didn’t die. At least not on
the spot. They lived to ripe old ages and begat sons and daughters.
But outside of Eden. For God threw them out. They were ejected
into the cold cruel world as an irate landlord uses the sheriff to set a
family on the sidewalk.
Of course the serpent didn’t escape. God went storming through
Eden and finally caught up with it. And He spoke a pretty piece.
Right then and there, humans and snakes got their orders to hate one
another. Snakes should go for people's heels—which they don’t.
Humans should never meet a snake without looking for a rock and
bashing it adequately, squarely on its head. That didn’t help Adam
and Eve much, however, except to make their troubles worse. Every
time they met a snake they had to crack its skull-case.
So Adam and Eve took up their residence outside of Eden, leaving
the place tenantless except for the animals—who thereafter got along
without their human playmates— and started the business of raising
a family. They killed animals when the weather got cold, and made
themselves clothes of the pelts. Eve gave birth to Cain and J\u
She had a devil of a time in the delivery of each, for God had cursed
her for her little misbehavior with the fruit by declaring that shewouS
know agony in bringing forth her young.
Again the sacred narrator shows he didn’t know all the biological
facts, because there are scores of savage races whose womenfolk don’t
bring forth their young in agony at all. Agony at childbirth is now
known to be more or less of a civilized condition, or a condition at­
tending upon women of civilized races. Furthermore, civilized woman
has twisted her body out of shape in order to comply with the dictates
of fashion. But putting it all on a snake back in Eden is a convenient
way of sidestepping these obstetrical facts, and quite as accurate
literally as many other features of our Original Bedtime Story.
Eve “had” Cain and Abel, and Cain slew his brother and fled. H
e
went somewhere to a place called Nod, and apparently found that
God had indulged his mud-creative hobbies in a lot of other places
besides Eden, for over there in Nod were plenty of fair damsels and
he got a wife without the slightest trouble. Doubtless he said nothing,
however, about where he came from, or what a mess he’d left behind
among his home folks.
So much for the literal story, I say. Millions of men and women are
ready to rise up and do battle in defense of the theory, that all of it
was true. And theologians abet the childish yarn, not being either
astronomers or geologists although perfectly capable of advising peo­
ple spiritually.
Now what are the facts ?
For verily there are facts, make no mistake about it. The Garden or
Eden story is a literal account of a literal happening, although not what
the fundamentalists and theologians assume.
HERE is an entrancing corollary to the narrative in
Genesis, in the Liberation Scripts, that will bear a mo­
ment’s reference. They declare that aeons upon aeons
ago, man came to this planet in spiritual form, aware of
his divinity but not of the potentialities of his divinity—
a sentient being and a unit in divine Cosmic Mind.
Needing to know what his potentialities were, by their gradual mortal
development, he entered into fleshly forms, first in the body of the
cat, later in the body of the ape. Somewhere in the long aeons that
ensued after his arrival here, he made the transition.
We are told that the Great Sphinx in Egypt, showing the head of the
human grafted onto the body of the feline, commemorates this stu­
pendous transition far back in archaic time. *
That is only a monument in stone, however. How much better to
ignore anything so bothersome, and pin our faith to something that
Ezra the High Priest recorded in Jerusalem in the year 757 B.C.!
Anyhow, needing to know what his divine potentialities were, and to
evolve into perfect individuality, man is said to have come to earth
from a planetary system millions of light-years distant, and has been
carrying on that evolution since, here on this orb called earth. The
Scripts go on to tell the details of the amazing story: how man came
here as pure spirit projected from the Consciousness of Holy Spirit,
howhe sank deeper and deeper into Matter, till Matter—meaning sub­
stance and materials—became his god, and he forgot his celestial
origin. 1?
The story of man’s beginnings on this planet, alleged to have been
compiled from etheric records, tells how he met with mishap. Over
longages the forces of evil in man’s nature had gained such ascendancy
over the species that Man began to lose the identity he was gaining.
Bestialities and abominations, the crossings of immortal men’s spirits
with beastly physical forms, began producing a race of hybrids so
terrible that something had to be done about it. The work of cleansing
mankind was well-nigh imponderable of execution. Thought-Forms
were crossing with evolutionary forms; animals and men were be­
coming interchangeable. There were divine animals and beastly
divinities. The whole sum and substance of life became a colossal
abortion, serving no practical purpose either celestial or mundane.
Each species, of course, could be rendered sterile; but that would
mean cessation of propagation utterly. Forms were already in
existence that could manufacture offspring by other means than
7
ovarian conception. It was a horrible, horrible mess, well-nigh ^
possible of solution.
Into this scheme of things were called some radiant beings from
other celestial system. This creation had gone through the sa^
experience— evolution in another world order, trillions of years before
They might, in a m anner of speaking, be termed super-angels. Th»
is, they had been created of angelic substance but in such form that
they manifested differently than angels who were merely messenger
or guardians.
These beings sought earth from planets in other world systems—144r
000 of them— under a leader whom men knew in His last incarnation
as Jesus the Christ. He was the leader of them because furthest ad-
vanced in wisdom, compassion, understanding, and general nobility.
They came to the earth in the midst of confusions, in a civilizationfar
advanced over that of the present. They were possessors of divine
secrets as to the literal construction of substance in matter. Theyalso
possessed every other attribute of divine thought that can manifeston
any level of sentient existence.
They knew the secrets of earth and air, and the compounds thereof,
They took fleshly form for the same reason that Christ took fleshly
form: for facility in mortal mechanism. They founded a special
tribe, known in every language as the Sons of Light. They m
arried
and gave in marriage, raising up giants in stature and intellect, “m
en
of renown.** . . .
The idea first was to ameliorate the dastardly lot of those they found
who had sported so in Matter, by inbreeding and evolving a cleanpure
stock from a race of hybrids and intellectual blackguards. They w
ere
Radiant Beings in the fullest sense of the word, intellectually, cul­
turally, inventively, ethically, compassionately and constructively.
They became the super-ministers to the universe. They came toearth
to save it from itself.
Now we shall discover what they accomplished when we study into
the fates of Lemuria and Atlantis, epitomized in Holy Writ as the
Destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah. The point is, that delvinginto
the Liberation Scripts and the amazing details offered from H
igher
Dimensions of Time and Space, we discern dimly, vaguely, somesort
of Edenic condition in which man lived in comparative “innocence,’
utold millennia in the past. W hat we are interested in knowing atth
is
time is, was there anything approximating a Garden of Eden at o
n
e
time on this earth? No matter how God “created” man, no m
atter
how man got his female complement, no matter what his original
innocence may have been or how long it lasted, do we confront any­
thing in astronomy or geology to indicate the existence of a tropical
spot, or area, on this planet in which man might have gone naked, and
fromwhich he might have been expelled later in his history?
We certainly do! And in examining the record of the earth—astro­
nomically and geologically—we suddenly find explanations of most of
the mysteries and paradoxes that have puzzled students of Holy Writ
ever since the Bible was compiled.
OW knowing, as we discussed in our last lecture in this
series, that various forms of germ life and microbes have
appeared on this planet out of interstellar space—as
evinced by “red” and “yellow” snows that have fallen
in various parts of the world even in modern times—it
is not implausible or incredible that man as Spirit, or
sentient units or particles in Spirit, might have come here originally
in a vast migration. It is entirely logical to assume further that man
arrived here in a condition of pristine innocence of that which he was
expected ultimately to achieve. But, coming to this planet in such
innocence, or ignorance if you prefer, what sort of conditions did he
findhere? Did he find a world as we look upon it in Nature?
Hardly! At the time that man-life first put in its appearance on this
planet’s surface, trillions of tons of earth’s present oceans were still
high in air. Under them was an aqueous, misty atmosphere so heavy
that he had to grow organs very like fish-gills in order to breathe. As
1mentioned before, we are still carrying vestiges of these gills about
with us, generation after generation, in atrophied form: our tonsils,
fl The ground on which man first materialized his cat-like or ape-like
foot was doubtless very hot and spongy; its vegetation grew to dizzy
heights, and flora did not fructify every season as it does at present,
because there were no seasons. In the very nature of things, as we
shall see in a moment, the climate of the earth was that of perpetual
summer in the tropics. The temperature was probably much the
same both winter and summer, because the earth was then heated
not by heavenly sunlight but by the globe’s internal heat coming from
the ground’s thin crust and unable to escape into interstellar space
Decease of the water canopy swirling over it, hundreds or thousands
of miles in the skies. Those suspended oceans, fanning out toward
9
the poles as w ater ceilings in sw ift m otion from west to east, kept tk
cold of Space out, and the heat of the young earth in.
There could be no thunderstorm s under that canopy, no gales, norain,
as w e know them today, because these depend upon the movement!
of air currents. A ll w ould rem ain in a state of great moist calm, a«ort
of perpetual silver day whose illumination was refracted from the
serried arches that represented the w ater belt held aloft by the earth*
rapid m otion.
I have already spoken of how this heavy moist atmosphere sustained
greater physical form s than at present, because the buoyancy of that
atm osphere w ould be greater. But the function of those suspended
oceans in filtering out the actinic rays of the sun, needs a bit m
ore
exposition. t p
The actinic ray of the sun is its life-giving ray, but if there is toogreat
an exposure to the actinic ray it also has certain death-dealing prop­
erties. This is best illustrated by what happens to a little ameba under
a microscope. P ut the ameba in the tiny waterdrop that is his w
orld,
upon a bit of glass, and lay the glass beneath your lens. Then screen
off the direct rays of the sun by smoked or stained glass. Watch your
am eba live his norm al life in that waterdrop. But suddenly rem
ove
your filter, and observe w hat happens. Exposed to the sun’s unob­
structed actinic ray, the little creature begins to swim about and strug­
gle frantically. It seems to be in agony. This ray exposure finally
energizes it to a point where it cannot longer sustain life and it gives
up its little ameba-ghost.
In that simple experim ent you have an exposition of what happened
to anim al and hum an life on this planet after the oceans fell fromthe
skies and left them unobstructed as we behold them at present. A
s
we shall see when we come to a study of the Flood of Noah andits
afterm ath, plants started to fructify every season, and die every year,
unable to w ithstand the terrific life-giving energy in the solar ray.
M an’s life shortened from eight hundred or a thousand years, tothe
intensified span of three-score years and ten. But while the w
ater
canopy remained suspended and filtered out the rays life was ponder­
ous, sluggish, given to slow growth, and tonnage.
M an came to an earth on which he found animal life already exists
ing. This is indicated even in Holy W rit, for we read that Adamgave
names to all the animals, and he could hardly have done so had they
not been in existence. These animals probably came from aquatic
and aqueous forms of life that were originally hatched in the heaven-
oceans long before sections of them began to plunge earthward and
their life forms with them.
IE ARE indebted to an American astronomer and geolo-
0
A \ gist, ^saac Newton Vail, for the most lucid exposition of
ic l the condition of the earth in this vast Edenic period.
Taking Prof. Vail’s findings over a period of years, and
using them as the key to unlock the mystic record of
Genesis, we find that there are practically no “holes” in
Holy Writ to confound the earnest seeker after truth.
It is in a sincere attempt to give Prof. Vail the belated credit he did
not get in his lifetime, that I draw generously on his writings for
academic proofs in mythology and philology, attesting to the existence
of a literal Garden of Eden. Only that Garden was not an isolated
spot in Mesopotamia. It extended throughout the whole earth. It
was not an area. It was an earth condition.
In regard to conditions in a literal Eden, which Adam, as the “first
red race,” must have experienced, Prof. Vail says:
Inthe early nineties of the past century, in looking over the wide field
ofancient thought, I found a great many survivals of proof that Eden
was covered with a great water-roof with cleared skies only at the
poles, in which shone the only stars that were visible to man.
The Greeks declared that the Arctic stars once revolved in a tholos.
Now tholos in the Greek means “bowl”—in this case a vaulted en­
closure, a space enclosed by an arched roof or dome. This was the
doctrine of the earliest astronomers and Anaxagoras is cited as its ad­
vocate. But it matters not who first said “the archaic stars revolve
ina dome-shaped chamber” ; it affirms that the stars spoken of were
north polar stars, for as surely as the earth had a canopy, man saw the
stars first in a dome-shaped enclosure, and they were called “archaic
stars” because they were seen among the polar arches, not because
they were “ancient stars.”
This most hoary survival statement, that the “archaic stars moved in a
tholos,” is plainly, it would seem, a witness of canopy conditions. The
word “archaic” is here derived from the Greek “archas,” the primi­
tive meaning of which is undoubtedly “of the aj'ch.” The scholars
translate it “in the beginning” ; but this does not portray the great
fact that in the day of concrete thought the “beginning” was a visible
thingin space. No one ever saw that other “beginning,” which could
he nothing more than a mental abstraction. I take it that humanity
II
saw the primeval beginning, as the first glimpse it got of the tru
hidden heavens in the polar Star-hole. It was a little thing at
that posed among the arches, and grew and grew as the water r3
fell, until it became the vast visible sky universe of the present.
One of the strange facts accessible to the common reader but
overlooked, is the universal absence of the true sun from the anciew
cosmologies, and at the same time a direct or indirect allusion totL
stars. I may here recall the very strange fact that the sun andm
o
o
n
are not mentioned in the cosmogonic narrative in Genesis, whileth
e
stars are particularly alluded to. The statement runs: “Let th
ere
be light in the firmament of heaven.** And again: “And Godm
ad
e
two great lights . . . and the stars also.** Not a word in all the H
ebraic
account of creation that can be translated either sun or moon.
This is wholly unaccountable without canopy aid. It necessitatestb
e
concealment of the lunar and solar orbs. The one fact that thesunis
not mentioned by name in these old records until after the timeofth
e
Deluge, when the rainbow is said to have made its appearance asa
sign that no more floods could occur, is a testimony of exceedingv
alu
e.
It is the strongest kind of proof that the sun and moon are unm
eit
tioned because they were not seen, and that the stars are m
entioned
because they were seen.
This not only requires a vapor canopy, or a concealer, but alsoa
n
opening at the polar vortex. This is what might be called “p
etrified
testimony.** It is testimony that could not have become fixedinth
e
records without an original fact behind it, and it tells what that factis
,
in spite of itself. Such petrifications must be allowed to speak. T
h
eir
name is legion, and we find that they proclaim the great truth thata
t
the time the old cosmologies were put into form, humanity livedu
n
*
der a heaven-concealing canopy with a peep-hole of stars at then
o
rth
pole.
W e take this key to unlock the thousand gateways into the hoaryp
a
st.
It never fails us. It brings to view the old tremendous fact that inal
ancient thought, of whatever race and tongue, the true sun iskepto
u
t
of sight, or at least in the background, when by all means it lo
g
ically
should have been in the very front, if it were seen as today.
To condense a whole volume then, we will confine ourselves toth
e
following six propositions:
1— A canopy, the last remnants of the earth’s Annular System, th
o
u
­
sands of miles above the earth’s surface. It was necessarily aw
h
ite
or luminous expanse. It was a great light by day*, and a lesserlig
h
t
12
by night. It was necessarily a very swift light, revolving about the
earth about five times every day, and hence it was continually rising
inthe west and setting in the east.
2—
—
This rapid revolution of the canopy about the earth, combined with
its very deliberate trend to the pole, resulted inevitably in a spiral
movement, and this motion was emphasized at the pole, hence all
canopy vapors on reaching and falling at the critical limit, would con­
vert the sky-hole region into a whirling vortex. Into this vortex the
hidden sun poured its light, especially while in its north course, as into
acosmic bore, or rotating helix, practically a sun-disk at the pole.
3— As every belt or portion of the canopy fell from the equator to the
polar regions, it necessarily became an arch in the polar sky bent over
open space. A succession of these arches made a vast cosmic moun­
tain of arches or curves—simply a Curve Mountain—a Mount of
Congregation in the uttermost parts of the North (Isa. 14:13), a
grand primeval Arcadia, a picture of celestial “caverns.*’
4— Each canopy portion falls from the equator to the poles as a circle,
affordinga most logical connection between the mysteries of the circle,
the triangle, and the Deity, so prominent in Cabalistic Thought. To
observers in the latitudes of southern Europe or Asia, this circle or
Polar Sky-Hole would be more or less oval or egg-shaped, or even top­
shaped, according to the latitude. It would be an inverted mountain-
feature, a mountain standing on its apex. The mathematician will
readily understand how this apparent figure must obtain.
5—
From such a cosmic system of arches the falling vapors streamed
inwardand downward, during times of canopy declension. This prog­
resswould make a Tree figure in a spinning attitude, its branches like
thespokes of a giant wheel reaching out to a fiery rim. This Tree would
bear golden “fruit” or stars. As the enclosure in which it grew gave
humanity its first glimpse of the outer universe, the Sky-Hole be­
came a source of information, a “Fountain of Knowledge,” a “Well
of Wisdom,” and its inevitable tree, “A Tree of Knowledge” which
w
eshall later see was the knowledge of Good and Evil.
6—These very strange features, all essential and inevitable properties
of a sun-concealing canopy, ought to be found in the fossiliferous
strata of the earliest human thought, so surely as intellectual races
were cognizant of canopy processes. Then too, they should be found
in the very midst of potential activities, where at times everything
was seen in the center of a cosmic whirl, spiral, or twist, as on a visi­
blecosmic spindle or pivot.
13
In taking up the first proposition, wherever we look back am0n
oldest annals of the race, we find a white and shining heaven,
also find it worshiped as a sun-god. In ancient Egypt we findtfie ^
god Am en, the Am m on of other races, and with that god we find^
than half a hundred other sun gods, but not one of them can
lected as the true Sun, so that Egyptologists are utterly at a lo ^
designate one of them as such.
It would seem indeed that the very fact that there were so many8
ll
features recognized in Egypt, shows that the one true sun was outo
f
sight and out of mind. The name Amen, as is well known, m
eaiu
concealm ent or simply concealer. Here we have then, in plainterm
s
a prom inent sun god that is a concealing feature. Look at the p
ro
fi.
lem as we may, the name will fit nothing but a vapor canopy, posing
as a shining heaven, a sun as large as the big round sky, affording
every opportunity for a multitude of sun features or sun gods.
A fter the name Am en was for a long time used as that of a godinth
e
sun pantheon of Egypt, for some unknown cause the sun nameR
a
became associated with it and afterward the name Amen-Ra, “co
n
­
cealer of the sun** becomes prominent. It would seem from thisthat
the sun worshipers had come to know that there was a concealedpow
er
behind the throne, and thus Amen-Ra became the “Regent of th
e
Sun.” ± ?
According to the monumental annals, Osiris was the most prom
inent
sun god of the Egyptians and yet he is very far from being thetru
e
Sun, for one of his most striking features is his concealment. T
h
e
annals state plainly that his brother sun god, Typhon, treacherously
concealed him in a golden coffin, usurped the solar throne, and ru
led
in his stead. Here again we have the unmistakable statement ofa
sun concealer, ruling as a substitute or regent of the sun.
But another very striking canopy feature in this ancient picture fro
m
the annals, is the unvarnished statement that after Typhon hadco
n
­
cealed his brother sun Osiris, he murdered him, cut his body top
ieces,
and scattered them all over the world. This puts the Egyptian canopy
unquestionably to the front, for it is plain light diffusion over th
e
vapory expanse. Plainly it can mean nothing else. It tells us th
at
the Egyptian heavens were a bright and shining expanse worshipeda
s
a sun but not the Sun.
Plainly we have here the same non-naming of the sun that we findin
the Hebrew cosmology. We have in place of the solar orb, a g
reat
light. The “pieces” of Osiris scattered all over the Egyptian co
sm
o
s
14
term
Genesis
universally diffused sunlight. As Typhon was the diffusing
fShim* that god stood for the vapor canopy, and we conclude that
cLvnt’s multitude of sun gods points directly to the concealment of
thesolar disk.
Here we also recall the fact that the first time the sun name is men­
tioned in the Book of Genesis, the word Shemesh is used. The He­
brew heaven was a bright and shining expanse, just as Amen-Ra, the
“sun concealer” was. For the Semitic or Hebrew name for heaven
was Sham ayim . And the same thought is embodied in the heaven-
hasham ayam , used in the first verse of the first chapter of
i f
W
e take “sham” as the term used among the western Asiatics for
"light” or “shining,” and as all know, “mayim” is waters. The He­
brewheaven then is shining waters. But what else than shining
aqueous vapors could Amen-Ra, the shining heaven of Egypt, have
been, since it was a heaven that passed away and gave that land the
solar disk, a thing wholly unknown before?
URNING from ancient Egypt, we enter ancient India
and find her people worshiping a heaven which they
called Varuna. In the name is the element “var,” im­
plying its watery nature. We get the German word
wasser from it, and our own water. The great Orien­
talist Max Muller has told us that the Vedic “Varuna”
w
as the bright and shining sky. In the earliest Vedas he is always
m
ade a luminous heaven. We find him again and again addressed
thus: “0 Varuna, Regent of Surya.” But Surya, as all Vedic schol­
arswill admit, is a name for the sun.
H
encewe have it in black and white that the luminous heaven of the
ancient Hindus was called the Regent of the Sun. This makes the
V
edicSurya a sun out of sight, a power behind the throne, and makes
theHindu peoples cognizant of a concealed sun, and Varuna a vapory
concealer.
T
hisheaven passed away, for in all the later Vedas we no more find a
regent of the sun, but a “Regent of the Waters.” In other words,
there can be no questioning the claim that the Hindu Varuna was a
canopy of watery vapors.
W
efindthe same thing emphasized in ancient Japanese thought. The
oldest literature of that strange race is in their Kojiki, the Japanese
B
ible. Their two earliest gods were a “sun born pair,” Izanagi and
15
Izanami, two great lights who stood upon the floating bridge of k
en, and, by rotating a spear of jade in the cosmic waters, brought
first land into sight— an island called Onogoro, meaning “the c J i *
Drop.’* S
The Japanese scholars have long since determined that this “first
ed land** was at the North Pole. As this was made by cosmic rotjj
it is plainly in place as the original polar isle of light. For it i8
stated that the two light deities took up their abode there. As it 4
0
i
point down and piercing the earth. ’
made by rotating the jade spear, it is easily seen that it must k *
*
been the polar opening of whirling “land.** These deities built tk
a Golden Temple, using the jade spear as a central pillar-post standi
A s we see it, we have here the polar opening, which in the latitude0
{
Japan m ust have been egg-shaped, and standing on its point, adom
e
shaped, sunlit feature. The Golden Temple reminds us of the G
reet
sun god Apollo, who had a “hyperborean temple’’ built by g0ld
e
n
bees, the stars. The most significant fossil we find in this connection
is the statem ent in the Kojiki that when these children of the sunru
led
the earth from the Floating Bridge, the heavens and the earth w
ere
very close to each other. But after a long time, Izanagi sent N
in
ig
i
to rule the earth, and the statement is, “After his descent, heavena
n
d
earth, which had already separated to a considerable distance, reced
ed
utterly.** £ ?
The student m ust see here the inevitable dove-tailing of canopyev
o
lu
­
tion. A heaven *‘very close to the earth** must have been a v
ap
o
r
heaven, and the only heaven that could “recede utterly” was th
e
vapor canopy rapidly revolving around the earth, a veritable “flo
a
t­
ing bridge.**
HIS SEEMS to be the place to bring some of the c
la
ssic
thought of ancient Greece and Rome into court. A
b
o
u
t
the oldest canopy petrification we have found here,1
5
the statem ent in the Hesiodic poems in which w
ea
t*
told that Ouranos, or heaven, came down froma
fe
j
to embrace Mother Earth and lay close about her ona
j
sides. O f course this is what every material canopy had to doa1
1
w hat no other heaven could do. The scholars all know very
that O uranos means “heaven** and that it has the same Sanskrit o®
ivation as the Vedic “Varuna,** and hence has in the name thew
tf
idea from the root “var.**
16
ru's reminds us of the fact that Varuna also “came down from afar,**
. lcigconstantly called Aditya, which means “sprung from space.*’
I^owdid it ever come to be said that the ancient heavens “came from
space?’ All the heavens that came in, or down, from space were
necessarily “concealers.”
N
jowin full accord with this thought, as every classic student knows,
^is Greek heaven was exiled from his throne by his son Chronos,
rTime. Time banished the heaven that came from Space. As any­
onecan see here, an exiled or banished heaven must have been a vapor
canopy. The old Greek literature that treats of the banishment of
heaven, according to the ancient order of Nature, or prophecy of
Themis, is quite voluminous.
The old Latin heaven was called Coelus. We get our word “ceiling”
fromit. In this name we have plainly the idea of concealment also.
Infact, our “conceal” runs back to the same root. Here too, according
tothe ancient Roman annals, this heaven fell from power, and there­
foremust take its place in the world’s canopy record.
W
e do not overlook the claim that Rome may have borrowed from
Greece, but the counterclaim that the ancient Latins as well as every
other people did not borrow their ancient heavens from any race, has
thesame chance for recognition. Here, just as in the case of Pelasgic
Chronos, sat Turnus, the “great rotator” that usurped the celestial
throne of the Latins, and was himself banished in turn by his son
Jupiter, the “thunderer.”
W
efindthat this people had their mythical Turnus, and their Aeneas,
anewpower from the East, and when we reflect that all the old rapid
“turners’*were forces and features coming up from the West, this
seem
ssignificant.
B
ut whither did all these banished heavens go?
A
s we have before pointed out, all vapor heavens had to go to the
Pole. That was the grand terminus or ending-place of canopy fea­
tures. Well these old aftnals tell us that both Chronos and Saturnus
w
ereexiled to the “court of Janus,” the “opener,” the primeval Jani­
tor of the Hyperborean Temple of the Sun.
N
owChronos exiled to the polar opening, is all that can be made of
this, and here we get the plain statement from the hoariest antiquity
that Time originally was manifested at the polar sky-hole, the Gate
°fHeaven. i f i f
fflL . 1 ». .1 11 i i i i r i
get that all such features were intensely emphasized at the pole, the
seat of the magnificent Turner, the Golden Gate of concrete Thought,
S E S E ^ I T H this canopy existence so overwhelmingly proven by
\ fi3 /j all classical literature and ancient records, we can un-
y iV ▼^ £ 3 derstand w ithout much difficulty where the notion of
n the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil originated,
1 that is so specially mentioned as being at the bottom of
most of the troubles of the human race.
Prim eval Adamic man had only to raise his head to see above him,
spanning from east to west, the multitudinous series of the canopy
rings in far-flung, indistinct motion. This ring-movement must have
appeared to our ancient species as the branches of a Tree. And w
e
find equally as m any references, in ancient folklore, to this Flying
Tree idea. Sometimes it was referred to as the Life-Giving Tree, be­
cause from that position of the Seas on High would come the precipi­
tations of telluric material, as we have seen in former lessons, with
their various forms of biological life evolved in the stratosphere.
W hen we come to take up the exile from Eden in a later Lecture, and
study the religious symbols involved, we shall run into a flood of reve­
lations shedding light on Bible mysteries. For instance, we m
eet
with the words Cherubim and Seraphim. We think of them in our
allegorical references as being angelic little creatures with baby faces
and wings coming out of their ears. The brutal fact is, that the word
Cherub comes from the word Chirob meaning “bull.” Seraph means
“fiery serpent.“ Translate your Biblical symbology literally there­
fore, and you elevate your anthropomorphic Almighty into the center
of a pleasing menagerie of cattle and snakes. More of that later.
IJ W e have in the account in Genesis for the decoration of the first
m an’s abode, the statem ent: “And the Lord God planted a Tree east­
ward in Eden.” But the correct translation of its location, from the
Hebrew, is not eastward at all. The word used in Qedem, and it
means “in front of.” In other words, the Lord God planted a Tree
in front of Eden, or, “whichever way man looked when he looked
straight ahead.”
Of course we have to account for the Serpent. But that is easiest of
all when we accredit the Vailian Theory of the water canopies.
Of course man knew that serpents were the most facile in physical |
movement, of any living creatures. He also perceived that serpents
had an annoying little habit of slithering up the trunks of trees and j
18
twining themselves at rest in their branches. So when he looked
high overhead and took the revolving telluric rings for the branches
of a flying tree, he beheld also at a certain well-defined orbit in those
rings, a great dark, revolving, writhing mass which also looked like
apython among its branches.
What he was seeing was the central telluric ring of carbonaceous mar­
terial that must have hung blackest over the equator.
Every race and tongue allude to the Canopy Tree, now universally
called the “World Tree.” We have the Winged Oak of Greek
mythology, the “Star-Bearing Tree” of the Hesperidian Gardens
guarded by Lodom, the serpent. In all the legends and folklore there
istestimony that early peoples saw a Tree overhead that was guarded
by a stupendous snake. It was nothing but the heaviest central ring
of carbonaceous material, I say, carbon that had been poured into the
stratosphere from thousands of smouldering or exploding volcanoes
where it became insulated by water and hung suspended as long as
theearth’s whirling was fast enough to hold it up by centrifugal force.
Undoubtedly in the last days of the phenomenon, as the water canopy
thinned by precipitations at the poles, these telluric rings opened and
shut periodically, revealing at such times glimpses of the stars similar
tothose seen clearly at the poles. Thus came the legends of the “Star-
Bearing Tree”—and mythology and Bibliology are scientifically,
astronomically and geologically sound.
W
eshall see presently that for ages this serpent coiled in the branches
of the Tree of Knowledge, was designatd as a Good Serpent. Did he
notguard the tree that kept off the higher terrifying Spirits that showed
themselves through the cleaving rings? Only when the last vestiges
of the water rings came down, and man saw how he had deceived
himself by not knowing his astronomy and geology, did this guardian
of the Tree become the Spirit of Evil.
But that belongs to a later discourse.
19
