{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n12_why_was_adam_driven_from_eden.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N12 Why Was Adam Driven From Eden","mylang":"de"}
i Driven
* v-’
»'; i -
■ ^ ~
5«
S O e ^
The Twelfth i o
T h e W B m
GALAHAD
LECTURES
“Why Was Adam
Driven From Eden”
BEING THE TWELFTH OF
The Galahad Lectures
H E G A LA H A D LE C T U R E S constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric H istory of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first form s of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantean and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N . C., in the summer of 1932 and have been recorded
and preserved in this form for students o f the Foundation Fel­
lowship. C The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of M etaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundam entals behind life in M ortality and for accurate
knowledge o f the sou l's enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth.
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BY PELLEY
PUBLISHERS OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA POST OFFICE BOX 2630
SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE LIBERATION
SCRIPTS ± * ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR ± * ONE
HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE IN­
STRUCTION TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY i f
"WhyW as Adam Driven From Eden?"
TW ELFTH LECTURE
GAIN referring to the Liberation Scripts, I
wonder if you get the same reaction to them
that often comes to me ? I do not have much
difficulty in closing my eyes and seeing a
splendid figure of a man on a platform, over
six feet in height, with lustrous hair and
dressed in robes of scarlet and white, speak­
ing those exquisite words to us, ofttimes with
upraised hand and finger as we see him in the
many Hoffman paintings. Over and over He
affirms, “ There need be no ignorance; all is of
enlightenment!’’ What a vision to catch! All the knowledge that
has been accumulated down through the ages is at the service of every
human being, if he will only apply for it, to enable him to live the
earthly sojourn with maximum facility. How can any clique of men
say: “This knowledge which we have is peculiar to ourselves; we
dictate who shall receive it’’? How can they declare that they are
particularly elected to receive information about the Cosmos and pass
it out as they think expedient? Whence comes their audacious
authority to build a fence about such knowledge, as men seize on a
wonder of Nature and say to the tourist, “ If you want to see it, pay us
fifty cents’’? The arrogance, and the pity, of it!
The Great Teacher has declared with fearless voice, I repeat, “There
need be no ignorance; all is of enlightenment.*’ But we must go to
Him to get it. Everyone who “ follows*’ Him on this basis naturally
draws the fire of those predatory souls who have the audacity and ar­
rogance to build fences around His wisdom and reserve it to them-
__ 3
JAN 31’
41
selves. A n d society is the sufferer. Society must circumscribe am]
handicap itself, and bum p along until it comes to demand its spiritual
heritage which is the essence of earthly life when viewed correctly.
G oin g back to the beginning of things, it is equally as essential to see
the errors in our concepts, as to see the facts that enable us to accelerate
our speed in acquiring w isdom . It is necessary to realize that we may
follow false gods in so-called science as easily as wrong fiats that are
purported to com e from the lips of divinity. W e must get our facts
correctly, that w e m ay truly look the Divine Father in the face as men
and w om en unafraid. T he w orld is fearstruck at the present time and
suffering from an inferiority com plex, for which definite souls in
definite groups are responsible. They are paying that karma terribly
as the age rolls on and m an com es into cognition of how he has been
grievously hoodw inked and circum scribed. And one of the items in
which m an has been m ost viciously hoodwinked is the concept to
which he has been treated as to how he originated and of what terrible
things he did in the early stages of his career upon this planet.
For countless generations healthy, wholesome-minded souls, enter­
ing new hum an bodies, have been handicapped or injured spiritually
by having the fabrication served up to them that, because of some­
thing that one m an and one w om an did at the behest of a serpent back
at the Start of T hings, they have to be precipitated into a celestial
courtroom after death and suffer for the disobedience or stupidity of
that pair of erring individuals; that is, unless they accede to a pagan
rite which originated in the religion of Baal and which makes the
M essiah suffer exterm ination as the scapegoat for their sins.
W hat an adolescent concept! A n d yet it is a concept affecting th<
thinking of hum ankind so grievously that men and women say sub
con sciously: **I will do as I please so long as I can get away with il
If I find that I have done things that I cannot get away with, l cai
m ake everything right by ‘confessing* m y shortcom ings to a man in
hat patterned after the horned priests of Baal, and if he gives me h
blessing, everything is squared. O r I will ‘repent* to the Great Teacl
er H im self, and by accepting H is scapegoat sacrifice for me, I will l
passed into Paradise by a cantankerous A lm ighty on the Great Teac
er*s plea for personal leniency.’*
A s a result of this childish m orality, considered theologically, we ha
society m ade up of m en and w om en w ho do not take the penalties
the after life very seriously. If C hrist is alw ays at hand to supply
habeas corpus for m erely acknow ledging his Saviorship, what need
4
there for being overly particular about their earthly conduct? To mil­
lions of men and women, the possible infliction of penalties in the
hereafter for wrong acting toward their fellows is purely conjectural.
So they proceed as they please and do what expediency prompts, in
playing their earthly roles. Vicarious atonement enters into all their
earthly thinking and doing, and personal responsibility is excused sub­
consciously because personal irresponsibility is made the cornerstone
of their religious morals.
Itis to change this as we can, that we are pursuing this particular line
of study. Such reasoning, conscious or subconscious, has done little
else than produce a race of moral weaklings, people who are always
waiting for leaders, strong men, men of the hour, to appear and guide
them out of social messes they have produced themselves. And the
surest way in which we can jolt ourselves out of such silly notions
in regard to Deity, the hereafter, and the role played by the Great
Teacher in earthly affairs, is to probe deep, deep into the past, and
observe where mankind got its original suggestions for such notions.
ONSIDERED in such light, this whole sequence of in­
vestigation from the Garden of Eden up to and beyond
the Deluge period in the world’s affairs, is awesomely im­
portant. Some of us following this instruction might
feel that we should get toward the Deluge period
at a faster pace. But in that fecund period between the
tim
e that the First Red Race suffered an alteration in the earth’s cli­
mate because of the disintegrating rings of water and other telluric
materials, and the moment when the final remnant of the canopy was
precipitated, we discover the fundamentals of more wrong religious
concepts, as at present accepted, than at any other period expounded
inHoly Writ. It behooves us to go slowly and observe carefully just
now, what vicious ideas were thus projected thousands of years into
thefuture, even down to the present moment.
W
e ended our previous Lecture with the realization on Adam’s part
that he was naked, that the Edenic period had ended, that to survive
thereafter he must put forth energy and initiative and sprawl after his
living for himself. He was childishly piqued about this, and could
only attribute such hard luck to the fact that somehow or other, un­
wittingly or no, he had “sinned” and displeased a God who was some­
what of an overstuffed human being. In the present Lecture we take
uphis life after he was “driven forth” from Eden and as he encounter-
5
ed the glacial epochs that came in the wake of the various floods
For we m ust accept that the Deluge as postulated in Genesis was
either the last flood from the precipitation of the last water-ring or
remnants of the water canopy, or that it epitomized a whole series
of deluges. And probably the latter is nearer the truth.
Every time that a portion of the water canopy drifted sufficiently far
aw ay from the equatorial sky mass as to find no centrifugal force cap­
able of sustaining it aloft, it naturally plunged to earth. While it hung
rotating over the equator or north or south temperate zone, it received
sufficient warmth from the semi-molten earth beneath it to keep it in
a vaporous condition. But closer to the poles, which were perhaps
still coated with remnants of previous ice-caps, it encountered no such
warmth and its water turned to snow and was precipitated as great
snow avalanches.
Now much of this snow would doubtless pack into the arctic and ant­
arctic hills and valleys and, when rained on, become glacial*ice. But
millions of tons of it must also have landed in open seas and melted.
A s water would consequently find its level all over the globe, this
meant that the liquid content of the earth’s oceans would be added to,
stupendously. This would mean a deluge to the rest of the world
farther south or north as the case might be. On the outer edge of
the polar)precipitation, much of the water would perhaps come down
as rain. No matter. The earth’s seas, in striving to maintain a level,
would rise tremendously. And vast land areas must have been con­
tinually submerged.
I have already called attention to what the priests of Sais told Solon
when he went to Egypt visiting them. He declares in his writings that
they said to him: “ You say you have had a deluge? You think your
Grecian civilization is old? We tell you we have records of a dozen
deluges, more than your scholars know anything about.’’ These
priests derived their knowledge from Atlantis, the mother land of the
Egyptians, as we shall take up presently. They not only knew that
there had been many deluges, but that each one had blotted out the
types of life then existing. They were of course not blotted out to
the point of annihilation of all species. Again and again there would
be a survival of certain types of life that had developed, just as the
elephant is left to us from the antediluvian animals and the crocodile
from the reptilian age, today. But each water-veil cycle seemed to
originate and project definite forms of organisms which, it is entirely
reasonable to consider, had been evolved potentially in Shamayim or
6
r
tjje Upper Deep, during those vast cycles of time between the many
reC
ipitations. Those organism s passed through stages of develop­
m
ent in interstellar space, that shaped them according to the particular
ingredients composing the respective sky rings in which they existed
andas they were activated by the rays of the sun, into more advanced
forms of life. Eventually, we find the vertebrates projected to earth,
andso evolved that when the Sons of God decided to migrate to this
planet to learn self-awareness in a new theater of experiencing, or
m
ore effective character lessons, by taking on limitations of flesh,
there were definite physical forms of great facility which they could
either occupy or copy as to pattern.
^ow it should not be difficult to accept as a working hypothesis that
£den as it has come down to us in allegory was the scene of a death­
less sort of physical life. It should not be difficult either, to reason
outwhy, from the chemical standpoint; knowing what would happen
under that water canopy without actinic rays from the naked sun to
play directly upon biological organisms. Death could not rule such
a manifestation of life as it does today. Death is biologically the
termination of the life of the physical vehicle because it has encounter­
edconditions, either within or without itself, where it can no longer
function with efficiency or perform that for which it was created.
Unless man was the victim of external causes, such as cataclysms or
feuds or the introduction of harmful microbes into the system, death
rarelyoccurred in the Edenic period. The actinic rays of the sun, un­
ableto get down through the water canopy, could not galvanize life to
thefatal velocity that has maintained since the Deluge. The shielding
of animal and plant life on the earth from the rays of the sun and
their “burning" and energizing effects, and the maintenance of the
warm
, humid atmosphere, would result in prolonging life to the extent
that we might think of it as unextinguishable.
7
ILLIO N S of orthodox people are skeptical when any claim
is m ade that there can be planetary influences converging
on one particular heavenly body such as the earth and
exerting appreciable effects on either biological develop,
m ent or the direction of m ass thought. It seems strange
that such skepticism should maintain, when the merest
school boy knows that the earth sw ings around the sun in a true orbit
because of the perfect equilibrium exerted by the pull of neighboring
planets, that our tides rise and fall twice every twenty-four hours be­
cause of the influence of the moon, that the race is dependent on cer­
tain qualities in sunlight every hour of the day to maintain health and
energy. People who are perfectly willing to concede the reality of
these three items will stop short and allow themselves to admit noth­
ing further when we try to tell them that in some degree every planet
in the solar system has an effect upon our earth and that the vibrations
from each of those planets can produce an alteration in man s habits
of thinking and acting.
W e shall see later on, in taking up the various signs of the zodiac,
hoary with age when Atlantis w as young, that just as our earth re­
volves around our sun once every year, so our entire solar system
revolves in an orbit with the giant star Arcturus as its center. In these
revolutions, each one of which takes some 25,860 years to complete,
the arc of its orbit is divided into twelve portions exactly like the divis­
ions of our solar year which we give the name of months. These por­
tions are determined and named according to the background of con­
stellations against which our solar system finds itself placed periodi­
cally, considered from the central location of Arcturus.
Now the curious thing about these zodiacal signs is not that humanity
performs differently under each of these sign-months in the Arcturian
year; but that the Chaldean star gazers had recognized and named
them, and determined the peculiarities of the influences of each, ten
thousand to fifty thousand years ago. Their knowledge of the heav­
ens equalled if it did not surpass anything known about them by our
astronomers of today. And they gained this knowledge without the
employment of the powerful telescopes we have at present, but from
studying a firmament from which the last vestiges of the water canopy
could not have fallen. W e know too that they were aware of th
e
definite influences of certain groups of heavenly bodies, that they
anticipated or made allowances for them in mass thinking, and ac­
curately charted them generations in advance.
8
anting in that pristine Adamic condition which we studied in
lecture was innocent, as the Bible contends. He was inno-
oiif
last
astronomically. In his Edenic condition, with a heavy water-
cfI’t spread in canopy formation overhead, he could not have figured
^fwhere he was located in space, what sort of heavenly unit he was
gating upon, what the stellar influences were that were bearing
u
p
o
nhim
, or why certain changes came climatically because of those
influences. All he could have known was, that he was a living,
sentient organism performing in a place. Because of the all-encom­
passingmist that went up and watered the ground, he could scarcely
h
avedetermined that he was on a spherical planet. His world was
circum
scribed from horizon to horizon, such horizons as were visi­
b
letohim
, by the telluric arch formation of celestial horseshoes that
dim
inishedin size and in tunnel formation toward the north and south
poleswhere the radiance came into the little hot-house locality b y re­
flection
. 1 *
V
erilywas he innocent indeed. He could not speculate about him­
selfbecause he had almost nothing outside of his immediate environ­
m
en
tbywhich to make comparisons.
OW innocence postulates that there can be no sin. We
cannot admit that a baby, before it has come into a
knowledge of worldly principles, can be guilty of trans­
gression. There can be no disobedience to law where no
law exists, or where law has not been coded and offered
to sentient intelligence. Animals cannot be guilty of
sin; neither can idiots. This, society concedes. Innocence then, is
lack of knowledge, and in the exact degree that we acquire knowledge
we acquire concepts of that which is good and that which is bad.
Knowledge is the information which comes to us and remains with us
in theform of memory, enabling us to make distinction between that
w
h
ich has been destructive to us and that which is constructive to
eitherindividuals or the race as a whole. In the exact ratio that we
are wise by retaining these knowledge-memories, we can be held ac­
countable for endorsing or following principles that detract from our
progress through Cosmos or that enhance it.
Applying this conclusion to Adam , we find that under a thinning
Water canopy the sun was coming into view as the ‘ apple” of which
Evepartook with such disastrous results biologically to herself and
9
her progeny. The “ first red race” was discovering itself and con­
fronting new astronomical and climatical conditions. In the vault of
the misty heavens, strange new bodies were likewise coming into view.
In that Edenic clime in which man had lived for we do not know how
many hundreds of thousands of years with apparently no such thing
as natural death occurring, his sky had been a fantastic coagulation
of striated mist-bands.
Suddenly in that vast ocean of aerial vapors he began to see visions of
twinkling stars and a dull, opaque sun. Age after age, following each
deluge and glacial epoch, these celestial wonders were growing more
and more pronounced. What could they be? Man must have started
to figure it out.
He was really being driven out of Eden, literally and figuratively.
The Bible story makes it appear that this driving forth took place in
a few hours of time, when a piqued Almighty ejected the first pair
one epochal evening upon walking in the cool of the day and discov­
ering that His human proteges had been up to all sorts of hijinks. But
notice that there is absolutely nothing in Holy Writ which fixes the
exact duration of this driving forth from Eden. Over a vast period of
time, man began to realize that a stupendous mystery lay in what he
beheld between the opening and closing bands of the thinning telluric
materials in the skies. This must have brought him knowledge that
he was located upon a similar orb in space to that which he observed
as the sun. Therefrom he could finally have come into a realization of
his own smallness physically, and of his spiritual isolation.
Here was knowledge given him that made him indeed like unto gods
knowing good and evil. Equipped with a realization of his planetary
exile and the expanse of the universe, he could begin to speculate ac­
curately regarding his predicament and commence the compilation of
an earthly philosophy. Furthermore, as the telluric rings drifted off
to be precipitated in the polar areas and the skies grew clearer and
clearer, the world generally must have become better illumined. This
would mean that the serpent of carbonaceous material which for ages
had writhed over the equator and which seemed to him to be the guard­
ian of the world Tree, would likewise have started to disappear. As
the sun and the stars and the true heavens of interplanetary Space
gradually became perceptible, and their reality dawned upon him, it
would come to him that he had been worshiping a false Spirit of the
Deep, that the serpent in the skies had been nothing but a concealer
of that which lay beyond. Soon he was designating the serpent every-
10
where as the Deceiver, and the term is synonym ous with Satan even to
the present moment.
So, to truly educated persons, much of the symbolism in so-called
Holy Writ, to the literality of which so m any millions of orthodox peo­
ple cling generation after generation, is nothing but fable predicated
on astronomical and geological processes. Take, for further instance,
the symbolism and significance of the Christian Cross.
The same millions to whom I have referred, live their entire lives ac­
cepting and believing that the Cross is pertinent and inviolate to the
Christian religion because Jesu s w as crucified upon intersecting planks
of wood 1900 years ago. They are confounded and not a little panic-
stricken when they are told that the Cross has been a sacred symbol
for hundreds of thousands of years. G oing back into the legend and
mythology of every ancient people, we find these two symbols al­
ways propounded, and usually together: the Serpent and the Cross.
The ignorant clerics of our era therefore ingeniously wove them to­
gether in compiling the dogm a and ritual of the Christian religion.
They fabricated more fable, that by the Perfect M an’s expiring or be­
ing put to death on a Cross of wood, the sin of the First M an in listen­
ing to the wiles of the Serpent would thereby be expiated.^ Not know­
ing anything about astronom y or the great processes of Cosm os, it
escaped them utterly that both m ight have a vaster significance than
anybody in earthly flesh could then conceive.
a matter of fact, the cross on which our M aster allowed
himself to be sacrificed to prove the fallacy of physical
death, did not becom e the sym bol of the Christian faith
because it w as original with the Lord of the Christians
as a m eans of execution. T he C ross goes back into
Egyptology, into A tlantis, even before A tlantis and into
old Lemuria. When the Spaniards cam e to M aya in Central A m erica
inthe sixteenth century they were astounded and horrified to discover
in the courtyards of those “ p agan ” tem ples, true crosses exactly like
those so emphasized by the potentates of M other Church back home.
“The devil has been before us and planted the C ross to confound and
mock us,” they reported to the V atican. T h ey w ere as m istaken in
their grasp of the C ross’s m eaning as they show ed them selves in their
grasp of the name of the country to which they had com e. Every real
archaeologist should know that the M ayan civilization w as the last
colonial exhibit of the civilization that had form erly flourished in the
11
southern Pacific ocean, on the continent once existing as Lemuria.
But the provincial Spaniards, knowing nothing of Lemuria and ac­
cepting all that their equally ignorant priests told them of the begin­
nings of m ankind, asked the Indians they encountered the name of
their country. The Indians replied: “ Yu-ca-tan! Yu-ca-tan!”
Translated from the M ayan tongue, the response was the Indian way
of say in g: “ W e do not understand what you are asking.” The Span­
iards thought the Indians were replying with the name of their geo­
graphical locality, and the name meaning “ I-don’t-understand-your-
speech” has endured for that particular area in Central America to this
m oment. A * Ay
The ignorant and provincial Spaniards did not understand the real
significance of the crosses and serpents which they discovered all up
and down Central and South America. They thought they had come
am ong a lot of blasphem ous heathen, whereas they had rediscovered
a great contingent of their own people, isolated from Europe and
A frica by the colossal cataclysm that was the sinking of Atlantis, the
connecting land-bridge between the old world and the new.
A s a m atter of astronomical fact, the Cross goes back to the Edenic
condition of the world, as we have seen that the Serpent does.
Both had their origin in the clearing heavens, as the water rings drifted
over toward the poles and came down in precipitations of telluric ma­
terials and water, producing the successive deluges. As the water
canopy either parted or thinned sufficiently for the solar orb to glow
as a ball, or “ apple,” of weak lemon tinge in the heavens, we come
to consideration of a great period that we need to grasp only as a key­
stone in the arch between the Adamic sequence of life in tropical Eden,
and the so-called cultures of Lemuria and Atlantis. And that prolific
period offers us thousands of years in which the strengthening sun
w as perceived by earth’s people as the center or intersecting part of a
gigantic fiery cross in the heavens.
W e see a sm all counterpart of this phenomenon night after night in
our own heavens in connection with the moon. On those nights when
the full moon has to pour its reflected sunlight down through thick
sky vapors, we will discern the moon as the center of a strange eerie
cross. It is purely an optical illusion of the mists between us and
the moon. Sometimes, under other conditions, this cross effect
widens out into a circle and someone exclaims: ‘‘Oh see the ring
around the m oon!”
Now it is an incontestable fact, astronomically and geologically, that
12
the same thinning canopy that would have disintegrated the Serpent
and shown him to be a “ deceiver,” would have brought the sun into
view and produced the optical illusion that gave mankind its first
celestial cross. The two would be contemporaneous. Which should
explain why the Serpent and the Cross are presented together in our
theological symbologies. The Serpent, or Spirit, of the Deep-on-High,
was first worshiped by man as a good spirit inasmuch as it protected
him from the death-dealing actinic rays of the sun by filtering them
from his daylight. When the Serpent was shown to be nothing but
a flying ring of black carbonaceous material and not a true snake at
all, and the solar orb began to grow in the majesty of its super-radi­
ance, man altered his adulations and gave his superstitious reverence
tothe Sun, worshiping it as the True God that had been in existence all
along but hidden from humankind by the Deceiver.
Remember, however, that it required ages for the sun to appear as we
now perceive it. The first aspects of the sun were those of the ball
of weak lemon color I have described, set in the center of an optical
illusion that took the form of a fiery cross. This fiery cross, seen by
humanity over countless generations, was inexorably associated with
the Sun-God then disclosing itself. Until the canopy fell entirely, man
was not able to conceive of the solar orb as apart from the cross. One
was a corollary of the other. Thus man had the Cross idea impressed
on his memory through untold flights of time, and whenever he
thought of the Sun he thought of its counterpart, the Cross. Small
wonder therefore that the colonial Lemurians, sun worshipers that
they were, put up the Cross in their temple courtyards, to be later
discovered by the outraged Spaniards. They erected those crosses
to the Deity indeed, but to the Deity as symbolized by the glorious
sun that had wrought such stupendous changes on the earth when its
actinic rays penetrated the overhead water-filter.
13
O R E V E R T to the Serpen t for a moment, the serpent that
w as accepted as the protective Spirit of the Deep should
n ot be co n fu sed w ith the Fiery M onster from On High,
w hich took the form o f a serpent and which reached
earth in a later d ay as a vast elongated mass of molten
m aterial from the collision of the twin stars Quain and
H abel betw een M ars an d Ju p iter. W e will take up that cataclysm
and its effect on h um an thought and m anners when we get to it in the
chron ology o f earthly event. W e know that to this day the Chinese
w orship a D ragon w h ose origin is lost in antiquity, or so orthodox
sch olars im agin e. B u t recalling that the Chinese were originally
L em u rian s w ho colonized A sia on the w est, and knowing much about
L em u rian custom s an d origins, it is not difficult to explain the Oriental
reverence for the dragon.
Incidentally I m ight rem ark here also, that even our dollar sign ($)
com es to us from the A tlan tean civilization, and perhaps from the
L em urian , illustrating our debt to cultures of the past. Many people
im agine that w e get our dollar sign from the initial letters U-S, indicat­
ing U nited States, superim posed on each other. I can take you into
the M etropolitan M useum o f Fine A rts, how ever, and show you old
Phoenician and A tlan tean coins with the sam e symbol in bas-relief
upon them . T he true origin o f the dollar m ark goes back to the sym­
bol indicating A tlantis, the Serpent, tw ined about two upright posts
representing the Pillars o f H ercules, as true a dollar sign as ever ap­
peared on an y coin fresh from an A m erican mint.
C onsidering either the Serpen t or the C ross as sym bols, it is unthink­
able that ancient m an should have seized on these and made such ado
about them , if they w ere pure abstractions. W e find that nearly every­
thing in legend or m ythology w as derived from something actual,
som ething that m an perceived through his senses. B ut mankind’s inter­
pretations over untold generations passed from lip to lip, usually in the
form o f fables as I have said, back in days when the conveyance of
ideas accurately by printing w as im possible. W e find the Cross far
back in the Lem urian culture, I repeat, and behind it there must have
been som ething visual to start either the use or veneration of it down
through the ages. K now ing the C ross effect often produced by the
sun in shining through fog, w hat else can w e substitute as the genesis
o f the connection o f the C ross with sacred things?
T oo m any C hristians are prone to either forget or ignore that Jesus
cam e to this earth only nineteen hundred years ago, and that the H
e-
14
brews only evolved the idea of Jehovah thirty-three hundred years
ago. In Lhasa, India, there are aged monasterial records of Atlantean
dynasties going back 300,000 years. In Chichen Itza, Yucatan, there
are monuments with records of dynasties going back five million
vears, as 1have previously stated. I say this, or call your attention to
it, not to belittle Jesus, nor depreciate the reality of the Father on
whom Jesus so constantly called. I reiterate, there never has been a
time when the Spirit of Christ has not been in the world. But we
should not be so blind and provincial in our thinking as to imagine that
the five million years of human life that went before Moses or the
Master, counted for nothing, that it was ignored by the Heavenly
Host, or that it played no part in man’s spiritual evolution. Practically
everything that Jesus preached in His ministry can be found antedated
in the Book of Enoch, a book which was popular with the Hebrews
hundreds of years before Jesus was born, but a book which was cast
out of the Bible as apochryphal because it exposed the purported say­
ings of Jesus as having not been original with Him at all. St. Paul
says in no uncertain tones: “ This doctrine which we preach unto you
hathbeen preached from the Beginning.” Certainly that implies that
itwas by no means original with the early Christians.
O G RA D U ALLY as those aerial vapors thinned, man dis­
cerned the ragged aura of the solar orb coming through
the last rotating remnants of the canopy like the light
of the moon on a misty night. A bar of radiance that
was vertical crossed a bar of radiance that was horizon­
tal, and made an imperishable cross in the heavens, sym­
bolic of the New God which man was learning to worship. And com­
ing out of his pristine ignorance of who he was and where he was,
mansaid that the Serpent that he had thereunto idolized in the heavens
was a deceiver, a hider, a concealer, and would have no more of him
for his falseness.
You recall that when Moses was reputed to have met Jehovah in the
burning bush episode, Jehovah is recorded as having addressed him,
saying, “By the name Jehovah was I not known to your fathers, but
bythe name El-Shaddee.” Here is a fairly frank admittance of where
the Yahvah of the Jews originated. El-Shaddee means, translated,
the God Shaddee,” and “Shaddee” means this same hider or Con­
cealer. We got our modern word Shadow from it. So before Moses
cudgeled up the idea of Jehovah and used it to strengthen his personal
15
position w ith his people, this sam e spirit w as apparently the Spirit of
the D eep-on-H igh, the Spirit o f the G ood Serpent, if you please; not
the A ll-pervadin g H oly Spirit on w hom Jesu s called in Gethsemane.
S o m e d ay the C h ristian w orld will aw aken to the fact that the God
w hom the Je w s w orship, an d w hom they have accepted as the Spirit
behind C reation , is not at all the om nipotent Father of the Teacher
o f G alilee an d o f H is follow ers. T he Christian world has been stupen­
d ou sly h oaxed by a false theological prem ise, projected to give divine
caste to a people w hose history is one long debacle of pillaging, loot­
ing an d m urdering, under the claim that they are special favorites of
the A lm igh ty . Indeed, they are so audacious as to make it appear
that the A lm igh ty h as at all tim es been an approving partner of theirs
in such pillaging, looting and butchery, wholly for worldly advantage.
T h at, how ever, is beside the point of our instruction at the present
m om ent.
It is m ore interesting for us to note, ju st now, that following the last
deluge, w hen for the first tim e in the earth s history the skies were
naked o f an y w ater canopy and presented the sam e aspect as they do
now , the E gy ptian s w ent to their sacred monuments with hammer
and chisel and ruthlessly obliterated all adulatory references to this
El-Shaddee as being the D ark O ne, the Hider, the Concealer. We can
go to those m onum ents today and see where such memorials were
angrily chiseled off. T he Serpent that mankind had revered for so
long w as not a G ood Serpent, but a Spirit of the Deep that had let a
deluge of w ater reach earth, destroying life wholesale. It was, in other
w ords, a Satan ic Serpent, and as such it has been considered ever
sin c e ; it had perm itted a diabolic thing, and thus its memory was for­
ever excoriated. In its place w as subm itted the G od that was the Sun,
or w ho w as epitom ized by the sun. W hereupon most of earth’s peo­
ples becam e Su n W orshipers, ju st as Christians today have become
m ainly C ross W orshipers. Not that they specifically worshiped the
sun as D eity in Itself, any m ore than w e believe that Hoffman’s por­
trait o f Christ is the Christ.
T h e sun represented the fructifying Life Principle. Worshipers natur­
ally did hom age to the concept that the procreational principle, in
w hatever form it m anifested, w as basically the G od Principle. The
C reation idea and the G od idea are synonym ous wherever we find the
hum an race aw are of such a thing as soul existence.
A gain and again am ong savage tribes, and som etim es among races not
so savage, w e find the principle of fertility deified. Most of us have
16
heard, at some time or other, of Phallic worship, or adulation of the
male procreational organs as symbolizing the Creative Deity, in man.
By the same token, in its proper sequence astronomically, under the
zodiacal Sign of Taurus, man eulogized the bull as the epitome of
biological fertility. O f all anim als under his observation, the male of
the bovine species seemed to him the most virile and potent. Thus
the bull, under the Taurus sign which means Sign of the Bull, sym­
bolized the creative principle in sentient Spirit. He revered the bull
throughout its life; when it died he mummified its body. Today in
India we have the same idea perpetuated in the veneration of the
Sacred Ox.
When the final remnants of the aeon-old water-roof were precipitated,
causing the great flood which we know as the Deluge, and the heavens,
without any actinic ray filter, revealed the naked sun, the result was
seasonable fructification in both plants and animals. The life-quicken­
ing actinic ray in unfiltered sunlight w as of course responsible, but
man was unaware of such rays in those far-off tim es; he only knew
that when the sun came into the m ajesty of its full power, plants and
animals responded in a way that he had never witnessed before. There­
fore, he reasoned, the strange, terrible God-sphere of Fire which now
ruled the firmament, was responsible. Trees seemed to die each win­
ter season and miraculously come to life each spring. Every autumn
brought a new harvest. Once-every year the animals brought forth
newlitters of young. All sentient life had stupendously altered. And
all had been dependent on the coming of the unobstructed sunlight.
fJMan, verily, had “ eaten” of the “ fruit” of the Tree of Knowledge
of Good and Evil. A nd the effects of this fruit had shown them­
selves soonest and in most apparent form in the feminine principle in
his species, inasmuch as woman disclosed herself as capable of pro­
ducing a new human being every twelve months as well. Man was
affected also in his fertilizing functions, but in a manner of speaking,
secondly. His potency w as not quite so dramatic, therefore it could
be recounted in the fable form that the woman “ gave” him to eat of
the fruit, i f
17
m
m
OW T H E R E are three very significant verses at the end
of the Third chapter of Genesis which merit our con­
sideration, even though they are the verses of a celestial
fable: “ And the Lord God said, Behold the man is be­
come as one of us, to know good and evil; and now, lest
he put forth his hand and take also of the tree of life,
and eat, and live forever: therefore the Lord God sent him forth from
the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken. So
he drove out the man, and placed at the east of the garden of Eden
Cherubim, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the
way to the tree of life.**
Millions of Christian people have read and reread these words for a
thousand generations, and have not perceived the inconsistencies ex­
emplified therein. That is, if the story is to be taken literally.
In the former sequence we saw God creating man and putting him in
the garden, but forbidding him to eat of the tree of knowledge. The
penalty w as: in the day that ye do eat, in that day ye shall surely die.
And yet a few verses further on, closing the chapter, we have God
saying: lest man put forth his hand and eat of the tree of life and live
forever, he shall be sent forth from Eden and made to till the ground
from which he was sprung. The first sequence implies that Adam was
created and put into the garden in a deathless condition, and the sec­
ond, that God was piqued that he might live forever.
Now which did God mean that Adam should do? The first inference
is that He created Adam to be deathless so long as he was a poor,
dumb, innocent creature. But it is recorded that the moment he knew
good and evil, the Almighty ejected Adam from Eden, fearing that
he might live forever and rival the God who made him.
We are left to conclude that it was quite all right for Adam to go on
living forever so long as he was brainstrapped in the matter of moral
discrimination, but that as soon as he acquired the ability to know
right from wrong he had to be kept away from the Tree of Life at all
costs.
Not only is a petty disgruntlement on God’s part exhibited here, but
He is credited with a bit of a superiority complex. No mere mortal
man should go around living forever and knowing as much as God
knew. It was a threat to God’s position, or so we are left to conclude.
€|[ I ask you not to overlook, in all this, that the true Hebrew script
never in one place uses the name Lord-God as the deus ex machina
of all these goings-on. That is an arrogant and utterly false interpre-
tation written into the King Jam es version of the Bible. Consistently
throughout this whole creative sequence of events, the Hebrew chroni­
cle sticks to the word Elohim as the One who so deported Himself in
regard to Adam. Remember that Elohim is a plural noun, and, trans­
lated literally, means “ the spirits that were the stars.”
Think what a tremendous difference in significance is conveyed by
that correct translation. It w as not an anthropomorphic God who did
all this fiat pronouncing in the opening chapters of Holy Writ. God as
we know Him today was not accredited by mankind until about 3300
years ago, when the Hebrews started for Canaan. And there was no
idea of “heaven” or Paradise, until they came back from the Baby­
lonian Captivity where they had been under the influence of Persian
Zoroastrianism. Correct translation puts a totally different aspect
on the whole Bible narrative. It explains, for one thing, why the
chronicler depicts God as using the pronoun “us” in declaring: “ Be­
hold, the man is become like one of us.” To whom was God talking,
otherwise? Some maintain that he was employing the editorial “we.”
But why should He have immediately dropped that editorial “we”
after the Genesis episode, and never employ it again in the Scriptures?
(JAs a matter of fact, the pronoun “ we” or “ us” must be used in
order to have the translation consistent, when we understand the cor­
rect interpretation of Elohim. It was the Spirits of the Stars, that is,
divine astronomical processes, that brought about the whole Edenic
drama. Correctly understood, as we are attempting to understand
now, man in his Edenic hothouse garden under the water-veil, and in
his non-fructifying condition, might have lived endlessly unless he
were the victim of accident or cataclysm. But quitting it, leaving it
behind him as the sun poked through the misty heavens and dealt him
theactinic ray, he did become subject to natural death processes. And
with Eden behind him, no longer innocent as to what was good and
what was evil, he did begin to lay his physical body down every sev­
enty years and periodically manifest his eternal spirit in a new one.
C
|That it is all an astronomical, climatical story, is further proven by
the putting of Cherubim to guard the gate of Eden and the Tree of
Life, so that man wouldn’t sneak back in and enjoy his former physical
bliss. If man could get back in under a water-canopy again, and avoid
any contact with the sun’s actinic ray, he would live forever, and
knowing good and evil he could become a terrific power for destruc­
tionagainst all created things, because there was no assurance that he
would embrace the good just because he could recognize it. He could
19
A
i
as facilely em brace and practice evil, as we know he has done again
and again throughout m any cultures that met with cataclysmic end,
because of his w rong thinking.
W hen w e are solem nly told in H oly W rit, therefore, that Elohim, 0r
the Spirits that w ere the Stars, placed flam ing Cherubim at the Qedem
of Eden to keep m an forever in w orldly exile, what we are being told
is : that Elohim or the spirits that w ere the stars placed flaming bulls
at the gate of Eden, or eastw ard in Eden. For the Cherub is derived
from the Babylonian w ord Chirob, m eaning bull.
Now w e are called to rem em ber that the bull in that far-off time, in
the Babylonian theology, w as considered the emblem of fertility under
the Sign of T aurus. A s such he w as depicted on all the Babylonian
royal tablets as a gorgeous bovine creature with a flaming glory that
resem bled, if it did not equal, the su n ’s. He w as so chosen because
he represented the su n ’s fertility or fertilizing principle. To further
indicate his heavenly sym bolism , the bull w as usually given wings.
This pictured that he w as not of earth, but of the skies, like the birds.
W ings were ever used in the ancient cryptographs to indicate that
which W eis of the firm am ent. H e w as likewise given a man s head at
tim es, to show that he em ployed his celestial fertility with intellect.
So the ancient m anuscripts, with which modern theologians have
taken so m any liberties in order to give us a logical bed-time story ac­
counting for the start of things, tell us in effect that the Spirits that
were the Stars placed four great w inged bulls eastward in Eden, or in
the front of Eden, to keep m an from returning to his pristine inno­
cence. A lso there is reference to an angel with a flaming sword that
“ turned every w ay, to keep the w ay of the tree of life.
A n accurate delineation, in allegory, of an actual astronomical process!
C[ A s the sun broke through the thinning water canopy and put an
end forever to the hothouse condition in which early man had lived, it
exhibited in the heavens w hat w e today call the Sun Dogs. Mankind
saw the Fiery C ross bisecting the solar orb in the skies, and the optical
illusion resulted in four m iniature suns* appearing at the ends of the
bars. A s the bull sym bolized the sun ’s creative power in animal life
on earth, we can understand perfectly w hy there were four “chirobs”
or bulls set in the skies indicating that the w orld’s Edfenic condition
w as forever at eui end, that m an had indeed been “ driven forth” for­
ever. The angel of the flam ing sw ord that turned every way, would
be but another w ay of describing the sam e solar phenomenon.
20
E SHOULD remember that the Hebrew Old Testament,
as we now have it, was compiled by one Ezra the High
Priest in Jerusalem in the year 757 B. C. It was com­
piled to give the Hebrews a literature that should identi­
fy them as one compact people. When we investigate
and study the period of the Prophets, and go on into an
exploration of Hebrew legalism in theology, we shall see that wherever
theHebrews traveled they were influenced, like every other migratory
racei by the thought and customs of the nations with whom they
came into contact. The people of Canaan, among whom the Hebrews
came after the wandering in the Wilderness, derived their religion
from Babylon. The Syrians had their Garden of Eden fable left to
themby the Chaldeans. So, being as good as any explanation avail­
able for the introduction of our first parents into the human scene,
theyborrowed it bodily. Now no one finds any fault with that. What
w
e do criticize, is the typical Hebrew psychology that appropriates
a thing so plagiarized and puts its forth again as its own.
The Hebrews, as we shall see later, did not even believe in immortali­
ty of the soul until they came under the influence of Zoroaster in
Babylon. Neither did they have a devil or Satan in their philosophy
until they learned of him from the Persians and consequently the
Syrians. As wanderers in Egypt they accepted the doctrine of Osiris,
that at death the spirit withdrew from the body and went down into
Sheol. That was a plutonian comatose condition beneath the ground,
or as we shall see in studying the religion of the Ajlanteans, “down
over the horizon.” There the soul waited' for the Day of Judgment,
w
hen it came back to sentient consciousness and looked around for
thebody it had once occupied. Bodies were mummified in anticipa­
tion of this event. The Hebrews took up with the notion without
mummifying the cadaver. Then they quit Egypt and went by stages
toBabylon where they learned all about Paradise and Ahriman, the
devil. Forthwith Paradise and the devil appeared in their literature,
but at a terrific expense in headache to later-day students who do not
know historically how the paradox came about. Today the Osirian
idea of the Day of Judgment is all balled up with Paradise, the devil,
the Egyptian scapegoat-atonement sacrifice, and the Serpent-Cross
astronomical symbology. It is a mess. And yet poor addled human­
ityis asked to live and die by it.
•W
e also get the word seraphim in this “driving forth” sequence.
Seraphim also did their roles in preventing man from sneaking back
21
into E den, or a state w hich h ad geologically ceased to exist. As 1have
previou sly stated, the w ord “ seraphim ** is the plural for the word
“ seraph** or sn ake. T h e fiery serpent which A aron made of brass and
raised upon the H ebrew totem pole, described in the 1st chapter of
N um bers, is called in the H ebrew the Seraph. That too was borrowed
from an old, old A tlan tean custom , to invoke the powers of the Sky
Serpen t w hich could not be rooted from the racial memory in a day,
T h ese old religions did not supersede one another promiscuously or
in dram atic revolution ary form . T h ey grew out of each other. The
transition w as slow , as the psych ology o f the people permitted. Re­
ligious com plexes do not vanish or vanquish easily; human nature
ventures slow ly in invoking the aid o f new gods. If man finds that
his new god, or his new concept o f G od, does not bring him harm,
he m akes bolder to em brace h im ; if disaster follow s the change, he is
quick to scuttle, back to the protection, as he fancies, of the old and
tried deity or deities.
W e should bear in m ind that the w ord R eligion has nothing to do
with deity. R eligion com es from the Latin w ord religio, meaning “to
bind together.** A n d that which binds m en together with greatest
ease and facility in all ages is the O ver-soul idea in some form or guise,
to which all m en are supposed to be accountable.
W e have to recognize that the religious historians of bygone times
could only preserve the grand story o f creation by word of mouth or
by sym bolic m onum ents like the G reat Pyram id. They were unable
to convey accurately the w ealth of scientific detail that would have
explained aw ay the m ysteries that have since becom e unfathomable,
w hen they turned over their findings to a child-minded race that could
only retain such truths by fable. O ver a great sw eep of time there­
fore, one legend blended into the other and only the basic principles
o f the idea rem ained. M any deluges becam e one deluge. All the
legends and m ythologies of ancient peoples contain the idea that man
first lived on this earth in a hothouse condition, that he lived in a state
of nudity and innocence, that his w orld knew no storms and
w as largely tropical; but that in process o f tim e, for some reason or
other— which he could only interpret in term s of penalty for sinning—
G od altered his condition and shoved him into a world of unkind im
-
personal N ature w here he had to scrape his living as best he could.
US “ driving forth from Eden,” then, was not so divinely
serious a m atter as the ecclesiastics would like to have
us believe. Translating A-Dom accurately as “ the first
red race,” we are no longer puzzled by such a silly
stumbling block as where Cain got his wife. Jumbled
as the narrative is, it is entirely logical that the land of
Nod contained feminine members who could have functioned in that
capacity. £ ?
So with man’s going forth from the Edenic condition, we begin to pick
up the first threads of social organization on the great mother con­
tinent antedating Atlantis by hundreds of thousands of years. When
Lemuria suffered catastrophe and went beneath the surface of the
Pacific Ocean, the Atlanteans, who were the first exiled colonists of
Lemuria beyond Central Am erica in the Atlantic Ocean, picked up
their culture and carried it a step higher. When Atlantis sank in turn,
Egypt carried on; and now that the Egyptian civilization has passed
we confront the latest cycle in human evolution when we must spiral
still higher than anything that has existed in the history of the world
to the present moment.
Let us investigate what those cultures were in Lemuria and Atfentis,
particularly in those phases which had to do with man’s idea of God,
which, in every land since time was, has underlaid and given form
to his ethical and economic structure. . . .
23
