{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n5_how_planets_came_into_being.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N5 How Planets Came Into Being","mylang":"de"}
Th& Fifth o f
LECTURES
5SgS
‘How the Planets
Came into Being”
BEING THE FIFTH OF
The Galahad Lectures
H E G A L A H A D LEC TU RES constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric History of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first forms of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilisations, cmd through the
Atlanfem and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer of 1932 and have been recorded
and preserved in this form for students of\the Foundation Fel-
loivship. C The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of Metaphysical Students, sacreidly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in Mortality and for accurate
knowledge of the soul's enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth.
1
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUED EVERY
UTILE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BY PELLEY
PUBLISHERS OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA ±* POSTOFFICE BOX 2630
SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE LIBERATION
SCRIPTS ±* ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR ±* ONE
HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE IN­
STRUCTION TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY ±*
the Planets Came into Being”
FIFTH LECTURE
TRANGE is the fact that despite the living of
every human being under the starry skies
every night throughout his earthly tenure,
less is known by the average person about the
firmament and its stellar inhabitants than any
other natural mystery coming beneath his ob­
servation. The stars are simply tacked up
there in the sky. The sun and the moon are
taken for granted. If a comet comes zoom­
ing into our planetary neighborhood, the
world’s populace is properly terrified. Will
itstrike the earth or will it not, and if it should strike the earth, what
w
ould happen? The heavens, so to speak, are an open book that is
seenbut never read. Of course most people know how to locate the
N
orthStar from the Big Dipper, and they accredit that the Pleiades are
supposed to exert a “sweet” influence. Three out of five persons can
findthePleiades, but the other two out of five don’t know whether the
w
orddescribes an ancient goddess or a new brand of rayon hosiery.
That some stars are farther away than others, is generally conceded,
butafter all, what difference does it make? All of it goes to indicate
thatpeople in the main are far more interested in the immediate results
inself-awareness received from their planetary habitat than they are
inthe colossal system that gives them an arena for formal life at all.
CNowevery person, no m atter w hat his age, should have a fair work­
ingknowledge of Astronomy. That is to say, he should be in posses­
sionof the simple fundam entals of w hat the celestial universe is like,
howbig it is, what peculiar happenings are constantly occurring in
3
interstellar space, and how these billiard-ball stars, suns, planets, and
satellites came to be formed, furnished performance-stages for tril­
lions upon trillions of Spirit Particles not much removed in essence
from ourselves. Likewise, there are a lot of things about the universe
that he should “unlearn.** One of these concerns the mechanical side
of Astronomy. Thousands of people hold the notion that as Science
manufactures bigger and bigger telescopes, the vaster and wider is to
become mankind’s knowledge of the number and size of the heavenly
bodies. That, however, is untrue. The greater the size of the tele­
scopes that are made, the more restricted is the area each can cover.
Give a moment’s thought to it, and you will understand why. The big­
ger the telescope, the longer its range; but by the same token, the big­
ger the telescope, the smaller is going to be the field of its vision.
Take the moon, for instance. We may point a four-inch telescope at
it and see it in its full symmetry. But immediately we begin to make
our telescopic lens larger, the nearer the moon is going to be brought.
Instead of the whole moon, the telescope moves up closer into our view
only a limited section of its surface. In the exact ratio that the moon
is moved nearer, the plainer will become the lunar terrain. But instead
of seeing the whole moon, or a section of the moon, we’re only going
to view some particular neighborhood on the moon or examine the
specific crater of some particular mountain. It is possible in the course
of time, with telescopes growing larger and larger, that we might even
be able to count the cobblestones on six square feet of lunar surface.
But the moon as a moon will have ceased to exist. What will exist
for our telescopic observation will be minute features of its surface.
C What is true of the moon in such respect, therefore, is true of the
whole starry universe. The bigger the telescope, the fewer the stars
to come into range of its two-dimensional power, but the greater will
be the detail of those stars so appearing. And the strange part about
it is, that no matter where in the universe you point a telescope—of
any size—there, obstructing your range of vision, will be a celestial
body. There is only one place in the skies of either hemisphere where
this does not hold. Off in the southeastern heavens, there is a space
that is called “the Pocket.*’ Within the Pocket nothing but eternal
blackness is apparent. But knowing what we do about the rest of
the universe, it is doubtful if this means that there is a vacancy of
heavenly bodies in that spot. What we the more correctly are looking
at, is undoubtedly some vast planetary body that neither originates
nor reflects the slightest incandescence.
4
S
OW first of all, h o w big is the universe?
N aturally, o rd in ary standards of m easurem ent will not
suffice. W h en w e get u p into terrific distances', to
m easure in m iles becom es incom prehensible. Take the
sun, for instance. W e say in com m on parlance that it
is betw een 92 an d 93 m illion miles from the earth. To
to represent that distance in m iles w e say that it is equal to one of
^ fastest express trains* traveling night and day for 250 years to
cover that distance. So m an takes as his m easuring-stick the distance
that light will travel in one second of tim e.
Light travels at a rate of 186,000 m iles per second. So it requires
something like 500 seconds for the light from the sun to arrive through
sheer Space and strike our earth. In other w ords, w e get the light
from the sun in a trifle less th an nine m inutes after it leaves Old Sol
on its journey tow ard us.
Nowwith that illustration, hold y o u r breath and consider th is: Some
ofthe star-suns of the cluster in H ercules are 36,000 light years aw ay
—
or the distance that light m ust travel at 186,000 miles per second
for 36,000 years. B ut w e have only begun to consider celestial
distance.
Themost remote of the globular clusters in the M ilky W ay, know n to
astronomers as NGC 7006— N G C standing for New G eneral Cata­
logue of Nebulae as com piled by D reyer— places 7006 as m ore than
200,000 light-years away.
To make this clearer, the light th at reaches us now from NGC 7006
left that cluster 200,000 years bygone. If the cluster had burned out
—
that is, ceased to throw out light— 100,000 years ago, earthly eyes
would still see it for 100,000 years in future, granted of course that
they existed that long.
The naked eye, in northern or southern hemispheres, can count be­
tween 5,000 and 6,000 of stars, suns, or planets. Each increase in the
size of telescope lenses m ultiples the num ber to almost fabulous pro­
portions—although, as I said— requiring more, pointing about the
heavens to detect them. Present optical instrum ents can observe be­
tween four hundred million and five hundred million— in other words,
HALF A BILLION— and constant im provem ents in photography are
gradually raising that num ber to a billion. A nd if you w ant to realize
howmany a billion is, consider th is: T hat if the mythical Adam , sup­
posed by the Fundam entalists to have existed some four thousand
years ago, had started to count as fast as he could work his tongue—
5
“ One-two-three-four-five-six-seven l**— he could not have counted a
billion even had he lived to the present moment.
And yet, to a degree, the universe IS measurable, in that we know
there is a greater density of celestial bodies in one direction than in
another, and furthermore that the whole stupendous array of heavenly
bodies is divided into two groups that have a peculiar movement in
respect to one another. The fact that interstellar Space has more
heavenly bodies in one direction than in another, permits of the con­
clusion— according to an observation of these densities—that the
galactic system has the general shape of a Waltham watch. As re­
gards the two master groups into which the suns and nebulae are
divided, we find them oscillating in the heavens, swinging back and
forth so to speak, one division penetrating the other and each moving
through the vast interstices of Space that exist in the other. What
causes such oscillation, scientists of course have not the faintest
notion, i^r ijr
Now the Bigness of the universe, as we saw in our last discourse, is
unimportant and means almost nothing, because Bigness and Small­
ness are forever relative. The old saying: “If you want to see how
big you are, lie down beside a puppy; if you want to see how small
you are, lie down beside an elephant,*’ applies with particular force to
any consideration of the galactic system. We get the word galactic,
by the way, from “galaxy** or series of star-bands encircling the
heavens, called the Milky Way.
All these heavenly bodies are big or small, according as we attempt
to compare them with the earth or Old Sol. They are near or far
away according as we think of the size of our physical selves and how
long it takes us to propel our bodies one mile on two legs.
It is a strange faculty of Man, however, attesting to his essential
spirituality— or essence in Spirit— that his Mind or consciousness
knows neither time nor space. He can consider a million years by­
gone or a million years in future, and know what is meant. He can
consider a billion light-years and by comparisons begin to grasp
whether a distance is short or long— or a given star-sun “close” or
“remote.** That he can perform these mental miracles discloses that
he is competent to penetrate to any point in the universe; only en-
housement in his body keeps him a creature of earth.
So size is a matter of measuring sticks. And the most convenient
measuring stick by which we may briefly survey the universe, is first
the mass and distance of the sun in relation to earth, then the mass and
6
j'stance of some of the closer stars, then the mass and distance of the
gjor stars and constellations,
first, as regards the earth and Old Sol.
T STAGGERS the average mind, accustomed to seeing
the sun rise every morning and set every evening since
babyhood, to be told the most elemental facts about the
sun, of which our earth is but the third satellite. In the
first place, w hen we walk forth in the middle of a
pleasant afternoon and view the sun in the high western
heavens, the thing that we truly are looking at, is our nearest star to
earth, relatively close at hand.
Thesun is only a star close at hand! But just how close is it? I’ve
already made mention of the express train that would require 250
years moving at better than 60 miles per hour, to cover the distance
w
hichlight traverses in nine minutes. But consider Sound. If some­
oneshot off a cannon cracker on the sun and the resultant noise were
loudenough to travel as far as Earth, it would take 14 years—reckon­
ingin terrestrial atmospheric velocity— for the noise to be heard by
ears on the earth.
Ifacannon ball, or 14-inch shell were to be shot from some gigantic
gunon the sun, and hurled through space at the gun-rate of 1700 feet
per second'—about a third of a mile— that cannon ball or shell would
require nine years to strike our planet.
N
owhow big is the sun in comparison with earth ?
Isaidin my previous discourse that if we wanted to consider relative
m
assto distance, we might call the sun an orange and the earth a pea,
placed40 feet away. Even so, a pea would be relatively large. One
little ball of buckshot would be the more accurate comparison. To
getour ratios the better adjusted, consider this—
Supposewe say that the sun is a sphere two feet in diameter, or about
thesize of the ordinary geographer’s globe mounted on a standard in
any scholar's study. Perhaps you own such a globe at this minute.
Verygood. Then consider that the earth in relation to it would be as
asmall boy's ordinary clay marble 220 feet from it, while the distance
of the nearest fixed star in this scale would be approximately 8,000
m
iles—or the actual diameter of the earth on which we live.
Inother words, the diameter of the sun is 110 times as great as that
of earth—it being 866,500 miles from surface to surface directly
through its heart—while considered relatively as to mass, the sun is
332,000 times that of earth. Its density, however, is only a little ov*
a quarter that of the earth's, or about 1.41 times as heavy as water.
It is well to keep this in mind in thinking of the probable physical
condition of the sun, when we remember that it is mainly composed
of iron.
The attraction of the sun at its surface is about 27.6 times that of the
earth at its exterior, so that a 200-pound man would weigh about
5320 pounds on the sun, and a body would fall there at a rate of 444
feet per second, instead of 16 as here. A pendulum which m
arks
secoiids here would oscillate more than five times per second upon
Old Sol. ±p
How is the vast heat of the sun kept up? The scientist’s most gen­
erally accepted hypothesis is the contraction of the sun’s huge m
ass
upon itself—in other words, its shrinkage—which generates heat
through internal pressure. Yet so slow is this rate of shrinkage that
centuries must pass before the most delicate of instruments candetect
the slightest change.
If the shrinkage or contraction theory be correct, the sun is probably
from 20 million to 50 million years old—and doubtless the latter
figure is nearer the truth than the former. If the same contraction
should continue, the sun would take the next five million years to
shrink to one-half its present diameter.
HE INNER core of the sun seems to be composed of
gases. At the intense heat that prevails upon the sun
by comparison with earthly temperatures, and beingin
a state of such compression, they have the consistency
of melted tar or pitch. C. The luminous surface of the
sun directly visible in telescopes is called the Photo­
sphere, from the Greek word “phos” meaning “bright” . . . it is
probably a sheet of luminous clouds formed by the condensation of
substances which exist as gases in the hotter central mass of thesun.
Under a moderate magnifying power it looks like rough draw
ing-
paper. Under higher lenses, it looks like snowflakes scattered over
gray cloth. These flakes, or grains, are from 400 to 600 miles across.
Of sun spots and faculae I shall have more to say later.
Next above the photosphere comes a stratum of unknown thickness,
discovered by Professor Young, containing the vapors of manyofour
terrestrial elements. It is called Young’s Reversing Layer. A
bove
the Reversing Layer and interpenetrating it, is an atmosphere of
8
nt gases called the Chromosphere. Hydrogen is the most
jSp inant among these gases, and out of this Chromosphere rise
Le^° n
C
lerful protuberances which form so prominent a feature of the
urr°undings at the time of a total eclipse.
s^sunding all other parts of the solar surface is the halo of light
the Corona—which is only visible at the time of a total eclipse,
iighrecognized from earliest times, little is known of its cause or
^ 'cal condition. Down near the surface it is very bright and of a
if Oil tv AO VW JT O X lgm U1IU VA a.
pP^jy^greenish color. Above this it rises, especially at the poles, in
and
illy i
Colorado, in 1878, these streamers were seen extending at least
P
6
3
1
/and finely clustered filaments. Over the sun-spot zones it
ljy rises higher in broad streaks. Up in the clear air of Pike’s
creflereL i i _ • i Q 7 Q j-i______ __________________________ ____________. j.____ i : _ ____ * ___*
o^O.OOOmiles into Space from the sun.
incite portions of its surface and its composition. Thereby do we
?noWmuch surface and composition of the other star-suns in
Aecelestial universe.
|OW when a smaller and non-incandescent body is pulled
into a regular orbit around such a star-sun, we label it
a Planet. W e label it a Planet from the word Plane—
or because it has a plane on which it travels. €T Another
of the popular notions which it would be well for us to
un-learn concerning planets— and particularly our own
planet Earth—is that it was birthed by the sun by being hurled out
ofitwhen the sun was revolving at a much faster rate than at present.
If such a theory were true, it would have to follow that the planet
that is farthest from Old Sol!— Neptune— would have been cast off
first, then in reverse order: Uranus, Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Earth,
V
enus, and Mercury. Neptune would have cooled down first, and
contracted, but this contraction should have made heat again and pre­
vented it from becoming a solid. The Earth therefore, even today,
should be much colder— or hotter by contraction— than Mars. All
theplanets should have been hurled off in the same way, in the same
direction, and their speeds of rotation correspondingly reduced, one
from the other. Furthermore, for the theory to hold, the moon-
satellites of each of these planets, cast off in the same way, should all
k Proceeding in the same directions and at corresponding rates. But
0tong of the sort is so. While the planets bear a fixed ratio to one
toer in the item of spacing, or distances between them, their tem-
9
then, is a star so close at hand that we can examine the most
peratures and physical features are all different, and Mars, Earth, an,
Venus are approximately the same size. ^
A French physician by the name of Lescarbault, gave it out in 1$5*
that he had discovered a planet even closer to the sun than M
ercury
and named it Vulcan. But no astronomer has been able to see it since*
and today it is regarded as more or less of a myth.
Mercury is an elusive body that few among astronomers have evef
seen. It is not very bright, moves rapidly, and appears so closetothe
sun—rising and setting with it—that it can scarcely be distinguished
It is believed that it always presents the same face to the sun, as the
moon always presents the same face to the earth. Its atmosphere, if
it has any, must be so thin as barely to be termed an atmosphere at
all. It is 36,000,000 miles from the sun and moves most swiftlyof
all the solar satellites.
Venus is the brightest of all the planets. Mistakenly, most of u8
identify it as the Evening or Morning “Star.** Because it travels in-
side the orbit of the earth, it rises and sets with the sun. It is 67,-
000,000 miles from the sun and comes within 26,000,000 miles ofthe
earth. Its atmosphere is denser than ours, and there is only 220m
iles
difference between its diameter and our own. The diameter of the
earth is 7,920 miles while the diameter of Venus is 7,700. But it goes
around the sun in only seven and one-half of our months—or 225
days. It has no moon, although the planet itself goes through allthe
aspects of the moon—full, quarters and new moon.
On our planet Earth, I need waste no time. It is 92,000,000 m
iles
from the sun and goes about it in 365 days. But it does have am
oon,
of a nature that distinguishes none of its sister planets in precisely
the same way.
This moon is only 238,800 miles away and its speed about the earth
is 2,290 miles per hour. This is more than twice as fast as theearth
is revolving, the earth’s revolution being a trifle over 1,000 miles per
hour.
The moon’s diameter is 2,162 miles. In other words, it would take
approximately 50 moons to make a planet of similar size to earth. Its
density is only two-thirds that of the earth and since its gravity isonly
one-sixth, athletes on the moon could leap straight up thirty-six feet
and broad-jump at least 150 feet.
The telescope reveals the moon as a vast crater-pitted, rocky desolation
—a dead world—without atmosphere, water, or life. The side ofthe
moon turned towards the sun is, due to lack of atmosphere, so cold
10
cIcs could not be touched without freezing human flesh, while
^ 1°side away from the sun, the temperature falls hundreds of
°n below zero and compares to the temperature in interstellar
, ? £ # &
question as to whether or not the moon was thrown out of that
garib-cavitynow filled by the Pacific Ocean, often teases the imagina­
tio
n
s of the unlearned. Commonsense should dictate that such a
thingcouldnot have happened unless the earth had been in a gaseous
state__or molten state— at the time. And if it had been in a
gaseous or molten state, the centrifugal motion of the earth’s
m
ass remaining would have swiftly equalized this gouge from its
volum
eand made the whole planet symmetrical but smaller.
A
sw
eshall see in Lectures which are yet to come, the Pacific Ocean
cav
itywas more probably created by a gigantic cave-in of the land
surface between California and Japan, submerging the whole ante­
diluviancontinent of Lemuria. But the submergence seems to have
b
e
e
ngradual—the water creeping higher and higher up all the shore­
lin
e
s,year by year and generation by generation, so that no particular
lo
ssofliferesulted as in Atlantis. The w ater is doing the same thing
to|heshores of the British Isles today. It is only a m atter of arithmetic
W
orethetime comes when there will be no more England, Ireland, or
S
cotland. The British Isles will have disappeared beneath the surface
o
ftheNorth Atlantic.
ARS is the planet next outside the earth’s orbit 1 .
141,500,000 miles from the sun and has a day that^
longer than ours by only a few minutes. It takes 6
8
7
of our days to make its year, however, though in^
the planet is only about one-half the size of earth_
4,200 miles in diameter, to the earth’s 7,790. Although
one-half the size of the earth, Mars is only one-ninth of its w
eight,
The inequality of the seasons is such that the Martian winter lasts381
days, and the summer only 306 days.
Another interesting point about Mars is, that the heat it receives from
the sun is only about half of that received by the earth, yet its sum
­
mer is so long in comparison with ours that it is sufficient to melt the
Martian polar ice-cap.
In 1877, an astronomer named Echaiparelli startled the scientificw
orld
by declaring that he had discovered positive proof of intelligent lifeon
Mars by reason of a series of canals, laid out in geometrical pattern
and with engineering straightness. He claimed these canals m
ust
have been constructed to convey water from the polar seas to the
planet’s equatorial deserts. They varied in length, he estimated, from
250 to 4,000 miles, and in width from 12 to 200 miles. But the as­
tronomer Pickering, who went to work on the problem, decided the
strange geometrical markings were not canals but bands of vegetation,
following the changing seasons.
There is no controversy, however, about the two moons of M
ars.
They are tiny moons, compared with our own, being about 20 milesin
diameter, each. The inner moon, called Phobos, moves around M
ars
three times while the planet is turning but once. The other behaves
pretty much like our own.
12
ETWEEN M ars and Jupiter, by the ratio of distances
from planet to planet, exists a great blank of Space that
previous to 1801 had puzzled astronomers. All the
other interplanetary spaces seem ed to have a fixed rela­
tionship, but the gap betw een M ars and Jupiter was
twice w hat it should have been. W hat had happened
spoil the ratio in that particular area? H ad there once been a
^anetary world there, which had disintegrated or been destroyed? It
\ what had become of its m aterials? The Italian astronomer, Piazzi,
[ter searching dilgently, finally discovered a small body in this gap
thathe gave the name of Ceres. B ut Ceres was evidently but a few
hundred miles in diameter. W hat w as such a pigmy world doing in
aspace so vast? Presently, how ever, a second baby planet was lo­
catedin the gap, then a third and a fourth. Astronomers began to
v
iewith each other in detecting pigm y planets between Mars and
Jupiter. Today over a thousand of them are known and named. The
largest is Vesta, yet Vesta is b u t 400 miles through its center.
T
hisassembly of minute worlds is know n as the Asteroids. We had
themmentioned in our Fourth Lecture.
B
ut here is the baffling thing about them — taken as a whole: Their
m
assjust about equals such a planet as ought to be in that area which
theAsteroids enjoy peculiarly to themselves.
W
hat happened to produce these Asteroids? Had a planet even
bigger than ours, met with some disaster and broken into fragments ?
Ifso, what had molded those fragm ents into spheres and sent them
spinning in their own little orbits, each distinctive unto itself? Why
should they not collide with one another again? And what took all
ofthem, as a group, around the sun ?
Ifthese had been a series of sun-drops, spattered off in tiny particles,
theyshould all be traveling in the direction of their first momentum.
But they are not; many of them have eccentric orbits, spinning or
traveling in such ways as they please. The explanation is not yet
forthcoming from astronomy, although the accepted theory to account
for them is, that the nearness of the great mass of Jupiter may have
prevented the gaseous nebula in the gap from cohering into one
respectable-sized planet.
Thus Jupiter, by such reasoning, would have to be the older planet
andin existence when the Asteroids were in the nebulous state. Also,
there is no accounting for Jupiter’s size. It is the giant planet of our
solar system. Its diameter at the equator is nearly 90,000 miles, and
13
its distance from pole to pole is over 84,000 miles. Its bulk ‘
1300 times that of the earth, and it is located 483,000,000 miles f°V
e
*
the sun—which means that a railroad train traveling 50 miles anh^
would require nine centuries before its conductor could put its p^r
sengers off at the completion of such a run. Such a train w
ouU
doubtless make but one run and then be sent to the junk-yard. If not
then it should be. Fancy one train nine hundred years old!
Yet despite its great size, Jupiter makes a complete revolution in 9
hours and 55 minutes, meaning that its true day is only about three
hours long. On the other hand, though traveling about the sunat the
rate of 28,743 miles an hour, it takes 12 of our years to complete one
revolution. iff iff
This titanic planet is well supplied with moons, also, having no less
than nine. One of them goes about Jupiter four times a week, the
outermost one requires 18 days. Writers of Jove songs on Jupiter
would have plenty of trouble with their moonlight, for if a young m
an
asked his girl to come out with him for a stroll beneath the moon, she
would ask him to supply his data as to which of the nine moons he
meant—or did he mean all of ’em?
Jupiter, moons and all, is the brightest of all the planets in our system
except Venus. It is five times as bright as Sirius, the most brilliant
of the fixed stars, or outer suns.
When we get to the next planet, Saturn, we discover more eccen­
tricities. Saturn is the one great planet which we can examine through
the telescope, that is encircled by a plane-like band, resembling the
brim of a gigantic straw hat. Saturn has a brilliance of a star or sunof
the first magnitude, and its diameter is 73,000 miles—nine times as
great as the earth's, yet not as big as Jupiter’s by something like 17,000
miles. Its day is only about 10 hours long. And when it comes to
moons, Saturn has so many of them—if we choose to call them moons
—that they put the frill around her that makes her so distinctive.
14
^ g g ^ QW this great frill, or hat-brim crushed down around
H Saturn’s equator, is som ething that we shall find re-
ferred to in a strange and enthralling w ay w hen we
JKVjB come to our L ecture: “ Did the Oceans Once W hirl in
M the Skies?** T h e telescope reveals that this great fiery
circle around S aturn is not fiery at all— at least it isn’t
se0U
8_and it isn’t one ring b u t a series of rings, all on the same
j Jane, one inside the other, and the various rings are made up of
different materials that are traveling at different speeds.
There are at least four of these rin g s: an outer ring, sometimes
dividednear its middle into tw o ; an inner, broader, and brighter ring;
andadark inside ring that is som etim es called the Crepe Ring. These
ringshave a thickness of about a hundred miles. Recent observations
have established that each ring is m ade up of millions of separate
satellites moving around the planet, each at its own rate according to
itsspecific gravity.
The innermost particles of the Crepe Ring, for instance, travel about
Saturnin five hours. O n the other hand, it takes the outer or “higher *
ring something like 137 hours to m ake the circuit. I say that we
shall come back to another discussion of Saturn. But these figures
for the movement of the rings have significance.
In 1781, Sir William Herschel discovered the planet Uranus, before
then unsuspected. The naked eye can barely discern it. It is 1,800,-
000,000 miles from the sun and requires 84 of our years to travel its
orbit. Imagine living on a planet w here the summers were 21 of our
years, long! It is only four times the size of our earth, and one-third
the size of Jupiter or Saturn.
In 1846, the eighth and last planet in our solar system was discov­
ered—Neptune, nearly three billion miles from the sun, with a year
equal to 164 of our solar* years. In size it seems to compare with
Uranus. The sun itself, about which this planet travels every 164
years, must appear to a person dwelling upon it, as a mere distant
star. ijr
Whether there are still more planets to our system beyond Neptune,
we do not know at present.
We are safe in stating, however, that our solar system is contained
within the orbit of Neptune, and the seven celestial bodies named are
all of the planetary bodies that exist within that unthinkable space-
area. t?
You recall my statement in our last Lecture: that the extent to which
15
solar space is populated is equal to twenty tennis balls floating aroun
d
inside a glass globe as big as our earth. If we think that this s trueo
f
the bodies within Neptune’s orbit, “ We ain't heard nothin’ yet!”
In passing out beyond Neptune to the untold millions of stars an
d
suns, we reach a group of bodies— not dark like the planets and m
oon
s
— but incandescent in their own rights. Some of these, the “dw
arf
suns,’’ are smaller than Old Sol. Most of them, the “giant suns,” are
so big by comparison that the sun we know is lost among theman
d
becomes a well-nigh insignificant star that astronomers in those d
is­
tant solar systems— if there be such astronomers— consider about as
important as our earthly astronomers consider the smaller of th
e
asteroids. Remember I am dealing in suns and solar systems now, n
o
t
the planet’s that are their satellites. I said suns, and I mean su
n
s.
When you get a sun as big, or bigger, than the whole orbit of Neptune,
you are getting a sun that you can begin to call important. Then
when you begin to consider a mere half-billion of them—and I said
billion, not million!— you are beginning to get a faint idea of the im
­
mensity of the universe in comparison with thus puny little solar sys­
tem, and puny little sun, and puny little satellite planet with its o
n
e
puny little moon, within which we dwell and think pretty fine.
In comparison we can barely recognize the sun at all in the great
galactic system, so small and insignificant is it. As for its third planet,
Earth, it can only be located as a dust mote in the vast universe be­
cause it is moving around a ninth-rate sun.
How it was even discovered as an abiding place for later sentient life,
is one of those mysteries of divine arithmetic that should giveuspause.
C Incidentally, when thinking for the moment in such concepts,
doesn’t it hand us a laugh, to be told seriously by theologians that the
whole works came into being some 4,000 years ago, and that the
tribal totem-god of a group of Semitic Midianites was responsiblefor
it, and that this god often took time out from the business of conduct­
ing a project so titanic, and counselled those Midianite shepherds
when they went to war with their enemies, even on one occasionbe­
ing reputed to have caused1the entire proposition to halt its m
otion
while a group of them under Joshua finished a battle in order that a
strip of earthly real estate, 75 miles wide and 193 miles long, mightbe
seized, looted, and subjugated by his human favorites?
What a silliness!
What a silliness to even think that ours is the only solar system and
16
t
jtarybody that contains sentient mortal life as we have come to
ifi f
must be millions of universes like ours, with billions of trillions
n aW
are beings—many of them with faculties developed so far
n
(Jours as to make our own as rudimentary and insignificant
our8U
n rudimentary and insignificant among the colossi of the
Silky Way-
1 shall come to more comprehensive treatment of this question of
tfe
h
u
m
anlife on other celestial bodies, farther on in these Lectures.
is a fact to note here, however, that apparently all these
bodies, considered as to the matter of their movement,
are following one standard pattern.
1spoke farther back of the aspects of the universe re­
sembling a cluster of billiard-balls eternally rising and
falling, like the balls in the hands of some omnipotent
ju
g
g
ler. 1used that analogy to get the picture-image into your minds
o
fthefact that the universe was not “going anywhere” because there
w
a
snowhere to go—that it was simply hung in pure Space and all
o
fitsmovement was confined within itself, that is, that all its move­
m
e
n
twasconfined to the balls in relation to one another.
T
h
isstandard pattern, considered from the structural angle, is “Cen-
tro
so
m
eand encircling satellite or satellites. By Centrosome—and
y
o
uwant to note that word because I shall use it much as we proceed
-ism
eant the central body or mass of such a pattern or system, i f
CA
roundthe Centrosome, or central body or mass of such pattern
o
rsystem
, move its attendant satellite bodies in their various orbits.
(.Eachset or assembly of these constitutes a Celestial Unit.
Furtherm
ore, the pattern keeps on maintaining such assembly, in that
su
c
hacelestial unit swings in turn around some other greater Cen­
tro
so
m
eor core, and this of itself makes up another and grander unit.
S
ounitsstill greater and grander are recognized unto infinite organiza­
tio
n
. if i f ^
Itw
ouldbe well for you to keep constantly in mind that our sun,
surroundedby its encircling planets, is likewise moving as a centro-
so
m
ethrough Space, and yet—wise as modern scientists consider
them
selves—they have not yet determined positively what heavenly
b
o
d
your sun’s centrosome is.
A
lcyonehas been conjectured as this central core of our solar unit.
B
u
tthereis as yet no reliable evidence to support the idea.
I 17
We do know that our sun is moving—with its family group 0f
as described—toward the star-sun Lyra at the rate of about (2 J m
J
*
every second, but the sun’s year, so to speak, is so immense as toti^
that human life on the earth has not yet been able to observe w
hat
its duration may be. What seems to be a movement toward Lyra
may be only movement in an orbit around Lyra.
Observations by Herschel, however—as I mentioned some time back
—showed two great tidal waves of the star-suns, one widely scattered
group moving radially—as from the center of a circle toward its cir­
cumference—from the constellation Hercules, and another group to­
ward the opposite side of the stellar sphere. The goal of this latter
group, among which our sun has location, is over in the constellation
Lyra. The other group tends toward a point halfway between Sirius
and Canopus.
After thousands of years, the sun’s motion will alter the position of
many stars, as well as the tidal sweep of the stars themselves.
The picture of the universe—or at least our particular area of it—
supplied by such findings, is of two vast star streams, drifting through
each other, interpenetrating as they go.
HIS is apparently all the elementary data on the composi­
tion of the celestial system that we need for the mo­
ment. It gives you a rough design of the universe in
which you find yourself dwelling—enhoused in a phys­
ical vehicle called your body, moving about upon the
surface of the minor satellite of a very minor sun-star
that in its turn is a mote in a unit of other sun-stars conjectured as
swinging about Alcyone.
If you want the picture of your true condition in Cosmos, think of
this minor satellite—or earth-planet—whisked out from beneath your
feet, disintegrated, or vanished, and you as a sentient soul remaining
behind and taking the place of such minor satellite. Suspended in
eternal void, you find yourself a spectator-consciousness in a stupend­
ous spherical field of pin-point lights. Over vast periods of time you
note that these pin-point lights seem to have shifted positions. Par­
ticularly the great sun-star light that is biggest to you in this spherical
space—old Sol—seems to alter its position most noticeably. There­
by it finally dawns upon you that it is yourself that is moving in re-
laton to this assemblage of pin-point lights. But you have small sense
of motion because these pin-point •incandescent objects are too far
18
seemingly suspended in the vast spherical area and
^ ,l° S
t infinitesimal m ovem ent is only that of a squirrel going
> aIm j ^ouncl in the wheel of its cage. In a half-million years of
an have simply passed the sam e point in Space a half-million
W y
<
£ , i f
f * cry t0 yourself: “But am I never to get anyw here?"
a dmayhap some celestial conversationalist responds: “But where
•there to get?" The distant pin-points of light move, but after a
time they all appear to have m oved back into their original positions,
thereat they start making the kaleidoscopic change all over again.
([You are suspended in great blue-black, star-pricked space, and
th
ere apparently Eternity abandons you.
W
hatdo you do with yourself to endure the tedium of it ?
W
ell, you turn your thinking inward upon the essence and nature of
your own being, and observe yourself to yourself for w hat you are,
thatyou may recognize yourself as being anything or anywhere at all!
CSo then, insofar as your pin-point-of-light environm ent is con­
cerned, the next question we w ant to take up is: How did these ma­
terials come into existence for you to put your feet upon, and proceed
toplay out the drama of conscious and physically-enhoused life?
W
hich brings us automatically to a consideration of Energy.
NERGY, as we commonly employ the term, might be
defined as that eccentric capability which attaches to
either an object or a spatial area, to alter either the posi­
tion or condition of itself in relation to other objects or
other conditions. This alteration may be seemingly
self-motivated, or externally supplied. Neither alters
the nature of Energy itself. W e in our three-dimensional world in­
sist that Energy shall be supplied FROM somewhere. W e simply
cannot conceive of Energy existing of itself. If we want Energy sup­
plied to the wheel of a printing press to turn the press over and pro­
duce this pamphlet, we belt the press up to a motor. Energy comes
into this motor in the form of power through an electric cOnduit. But
we trace back the power and arrive at the dynamo in the city’s electric
system. We go hunting for what makes the dynamo supply such cur­
rent, and we arrive at the steam turbine taking Energy from heat-
units in coal that is burned, or we arrive at some great water-power
system where gravity pulls millions of tons of water per minute
through turbines again, and its “weight” turns them over. So to work
19
our printing press, we have merely harnessed gravity at it
C On the other hand, we quit printing this monograph and 1 S
°U
rc€
-
Ball game. The pitcher propels the ball to the batter. The ballV0
_lergy u
would stop in mid air, there would be no clouts of it that brought hom
*
from the pitcher’s box to the batter’s plate and we say that it ha*
ergy behind it, or more properly, IN it. If it lacked such E
n< ^
18
runs, hence no ball game, and everybody would go home. But inthl
case the Energy has been supplied by the pitcher’s physical arm. A
nd
his arm has manufactured Energy in turn from the metabolismofhis
bodily organs. So we have the “burning coal” process in another
form. But behind such Energy, controlling and directing it, not
to mention projecting it, is Mind, the pitcher’s Mind, suddenly decid­
ing to throw the ball and—throwing it!
Here, we might express it, is an Original Source.
Mind has functioned and gotten alteration in the location of objects
or status of conditions.
Now then, hold tight and try to grasp this—
Suppose that the “mental impulse” expressed in the pitcher’s behavior
encompassed not the area of Space expressed by the dimensions ofthe
pitcher’s skull-case but the area of Space expressed by the dimensions
of Herschel’s watch-shaped galactic universe. And suppose one step
further that instead of the pitcher throwing the ball by means of his
arm, objectively, he threw it “mentally” inside his own brain-mind,
subjectively, and that the pitcher was Holy Spirit and the thrown base­
ball was the universe that It had created!
That, you might say, would be abolishing materials as we know them
—whether composing either baseball or sun-planets—and doing the
whole thing “in Thought” or “merely thinking that it happened.”
Nevertheless, Energy would be present in both manifestations and
would be getting results after its nature and purpose. We concede
constantly that there is such a thing as “mental energy” quite as much
as we acknowledge the thing called “physical energy.”
So we can declare this axiom: That Mind, in the process of exercising
subjectively to get mental energy, or exercising objectively to get
physical energy, gives the effect of motivation, and proceeds to the
manufacture of some sort of appreciable result!
Our next step in logic therefore gives us this: That where there is
appreciable result from motivation, there is proven automatically the
existence of Mind!
The Metaphysician conveniently parrots the term Divine Mind to
20
k* ‘teller’s skull-case-area together w ith the activity encom-
^scribeHerschers watch-shaped galactic system . H oly Spirit is another
P
*SSm
gient label. Scientists talk about the First Cause.
contend all are m aking their mistakes is in thinking or
nfving that there is an y particular “ divine” Mind, or “ holy” Spirit,
^first” Cause. There is but M ind, Spirit, and Cause, and A L L of
Jiem are divine, holy, and original. Furthermore, there is none of it
apart from our spiritual or essential selves, except as to manner or ec­
centricity of function. A n d w e arrive at this conclusion, not by a
study of the galactic system but a study of the Atom .
'The atoms composing Betelguese and the atoms composing ourselves
are identical in nature, composition, and behavior. Therefore the
sam
e Mind Performance m ust be considered as behind, and in, and of,
both! t ?
Nowhere in all the galactic system , or systems, that we penetrate, do
we find Matter or Substance compiled in any different aspect or pat­
tern than we find it in the physical or sensory equipment of our in-
finitesimally-small selves.
Now many people are puzzled as to the difference between atoms and
molecules. Let s set ourselves straight on these two terms—
A molecule is the smallest division of a substance, where any further
division would cause it to cease being a substance. Thus a piece of
rock salt can be broken up repeatedly, or powdered to infinite fineness,
yet each fragment will still be salt. W hen we reach particles so small
that any further pulverizing will cause the particles to cease being
salt, we have reached the molecules of salt.
The smallness of true molecules can be grasped when we again use
the globe of the earth for our standard. If a single drop of water
were magnified till it w as as big as the earth, each molecule in it
would be about the size of the brass knob on the post of your bed.
C An atom is the unit that goes to make up the nature of the mole­
cule, thereby identifying the substance composing it. If the molecule
contains only one kind of an atom, the substance is defined as a chem­
ical Element. W here the atoms within a molecule differ, the sub­
stance is called a chemical Compound.
It was once taught that somewhere about 80 elements had distinct
and unique atoms, incapable of being broken up into any more basic
substance. The idea has been abandoned.
The Atom s of all matter consist of etheric impulses of positive and
negative electricity.
21
The charge of positive electricity is the centrosome or ,
called the Proton. Me atl<i«
The charge of negative electricity is the satellite or planet and is ,
the Electron. ' ***
The mass, or inertia, of the electron-negative-satellite in the sim
plest
atom known— that of hydrogen— to its proton-positive-centrosom*
is one 1845th. e
In other words, the proton-positive-centrosome, or sun, of the hydro,
gen atom, weighs one thousand eight hundred and forty-five timesas
much as the single electron-negative-satellite flying around it.
“An Atom,** says Millikan, “consists of a heavy core or nucleus of
one or more free protons, about which are grouped enough electrons
to render the atom stable,** that is, to give it unit-balance.
The atom of hydrogen contains one proton; outside the nucleus is
one electron, to balance or “neutralize** the proton. The result is a
world system— an atom of hydrogen.
If our sun, to illustrate, had but one planet revolving about it instead
of eight, it would be a mere hydrogen atom in the great Cosmic
Chemistry.
The heaviest known element is uranium. Generally speaking, its
nucleus contains 384 protons, or suns, and its satellite system 384
electrons or planets. Remove even one proton from the nucleus andit
is no longer an atom of uranium. Remove ten protons and you have
an atom of lead. Remove thirteen and you have an atom of gold.
And so on down—through the whole long list of metallic materials.
C Magnify the nucleus of an atom one billion times, however, and
it would still be too small to be discerned through the highest-powered
microscope. Magnify it three billion times and the electrons are now
three feet from the centrosome, but the nucleus itself is still smaller
than a pin-point.
And the electrons flying about it are even one 1845th of that!
Matter then, is divisible into electrons and protons. But between
electrons and protons are spaces so vast, in comparison to masses of
each, that if the proton in the carbon atom were designated as to size
by a walnut hanging down in the center of the great train-concourse
at Pennsylvania Station in New York, its electrons would be repre­
sented by six wasps winging in a little knot against the four far walls
of the structure.
All Matter then, is only a form of Energy.
There is no final solidarity of substance to anything: all that exists is
22
i jg |g j
yl And this means what it says. Betelguese or the paper on
kfch this Lecture has been printed, mountains and cabbages, air­
planes and smoking tobacco, George Washington and the Rock of
Gibraltar—all are, or have been, constructed of the one thing:
Energy! &
T
o put it in another way: The universe consists of Emptiness,
chargedwith electrical energy!
O
urfinite minds demand: Was it created, or has it always existed>
Ifitwas created, who created it>
Thescientist says that there is no scientific data available as to ho>w
Energy began. To cover himself and whitewash his confinement of
activity to the strictly material, or Results of Energy, he adds: “It is
probably permanently unknowable.** Maybe so! But this is not the
monograph that pursues the bedevilment to its lair. We want to
knowat this stage how the planets may have come into being. . . .
23
E might put it this way—
As balanced atoms came into existence from such po8
*
tive and negative compilations of primordial Energy ^
we have had described— from 1 centrosome and I satel­
lite to 384 suns and 384 satellites—they behaved after
a natural pattern to one another in the vast concoctions
of free Space. W hat this natural pattern may have been, or still is,
we must take up in our m onograph: Did the Oceans Once Whirl in
the Skies?
But relationships of mass to distance in the various coagulations of
primordial energy-display, projected knots in ether wherein quantities
of ALL the assortments of atoms became isolated.
In such isolations they behaved toward each other after the nature of
their numerical significances— or numbers of protons and electrons
involved in the 384 combinations.
What we call planets, for human occupation and employments of free
Spirit Particles known as men and women—and even animal life-
are the coagulated demonstrations of these combinations, getting re­
sults according to the influences exerted by other great planetary
bodies adjacent to them in Space.
The celestial bodies came into existence where there was space
enough, and primordial energy enough in such Space, for them to
function after their pattern as planetary forms.
Let us attack this mighty problem in our next Discourse, and see if
we cannot render it simpler, by considering precisely what must have
been the processes achieved by Eternal Energy in that otherwise un­
occupied Space existent in the’solar system between Venus and M
ars.
In other words, let us consider a practical operation of Energy inpro­
jecting the planet Earth!
OA
