{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n6_when_oceans_whirled_overhead.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N6 When Oceans Whirled Overhead","mylang":"de"}
v
; The Sixth o
'TheWM^B
GALAHAD
LECTURES
“When the Oceans
Whirled Overhead”
BEING THE SIXTH OF
The Galahad Lectures
HE GALAHAD LECTURES constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric History of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first forms of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantem and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer of 1932 and have been recorded
and preserved in this form for students of\the Foundation Fel­
lowship. C The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of Metaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in Mortality and for accurate
knowledge of the souVs enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth.
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BY PELLEY
PUBLISHERS OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA i*r POSTOFFICE BOX 2630
SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE LIBERATION
SCRIPTS i? ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR ±* ONE
HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE IN­
STRUCTION TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY *
#en Oceans Whirled Overhead1
1
THE SIXTH LECTURE
|EGINN1NG with this Sixth Lecture, we depart
from the type of instruction discoursed upon
up to this point-—that painted in a metaphysi­
cal background for the finite wonders that we
perceive about us—and consider literal and
material facts concerning this world in which
^ / j we find ourselves. Which means that we are
1 called to consider the origin and development
of these mysterious locations in Abstract
Space known as planets, on which each mortal
scene is played, whether such planet be Earth
j o
rM
ars. Human beings could not unfold and expand finitely unless
jtheyhadstages on which to perform. They could not come back in-
Itoaworld of Shape in Substance, time and time again, to learn the
Ilessonsof circumscription, unless such Substance took definite pattern
j an
dprovided a location that was at least identifiable to those who felt
Ith
ereactions of it. Yet it is not altogether for purposes of abstract
jreasoningthat we are now essaying to investigate this entrancing hy­
pothesisof planetary structure and purpose at this time. The average
jm
anand woman in life today, not knowing the great natural process-
'e
stakingplace on, or behind the structure of, this finite plane, assume
;that great natural upsets and disturbances—frequently resulting in
\appalling loss of life—come from the fiats of a wrathful or dispas­
sionateGod, exercising Himself to chastise those who have performed
malignantlytoward their felloWvman. We begin to see, when we delve
intothe manufacture of the heavenly bodies, and the processes and
transformations through which they go, age by age, and generation
by generation, that they follow a code of laws with which a G
od
the old-fashioned theology has little to do.
First, we discern this sublime state of Cosmic Consciousness—orC
o
sciousness of all that IS—which for want of a better term we callH
oL
Spirit, performing certain processes within Itself that give it a realj.
zation of all its capabilities. One of these phases is the projectiono
f
substance from combinations of electrical energy, positive and n
eg
^.
tive. Different combinations and speeds in these electrical assembly
give different essences of materials. Materials are cut, molded, co
n
.
joined, or combined, and identifiable pattern results in outer aspects,
which men shall Shape. Shape is the parent of Measurement, an
d
measurement is the forebear of Utility.
Now that essence of consciousness in which the positive and negative
electrical energies operate is likewise given a name. We com
m
only
term it Ether. Commonly, too, we are accustomed to describeitth
at
“ether fills all Space.** But “filling** is not exactly the descriptivew
o
rd
to use. Rather we should put it that “ether is a condition of S
p
ace
in which electrical manifestation making for atomic constructiono
f
materials is contrivable.**
Starting from the vague premise that the First-Cause C
onsciousness
can get a result in energy display within Itself, we have the constitu­
ents of natural phenomena for evidence that a given amount ofS
p
ace
contains a given potentiality for a given amount of electrical energy,
no matter what the multiplicity of final pattern as human life eventu­
ally perceives it. In other words, there is only SO much prim
ordial
electrical— or atomic— energy in a designated cubic area of celestial
Space. This means likewise that there can only be a given am
ounto
f
materialistic substance arrived at, within that cubifc area. What then
a­
ture of the materials may be, resulting from the activity of thise
le
c
­
trical or atomic energy, is therefore determined by the varieties o
f
combination which these electrical impulses can effect within thefie
ld
of their performance, subject to the interstellar influences bearing
upon them. Within our own solar Time-Space area, we recognize
the number of these as being 384-—the combination of the uranium
atom or substance. Why there are not ten thousand—or fifty m
illio
n
—we do not know, unless it is that in our particular corner of theu
n
i­
verse, the Divine Enegy may not be potent enough to achieve th
em
.
N a given area betw een planets w here there are no m ani­
festing bodies of previously coagulated Substance, we
conceive th at there is existing a given quota of prim or­
dial Energy. T his E nergy, w e say, is “free”— that is, it
is w ithout perceivable direction or m anifestation in the
pattern of Substance. A ll in all, we can say that it is
acondition of interstellar C onsciousness that can become perceivable
a
8
unit combinations begin to be arrived at. To m ake this plainer, we
^ out on a clear night and look a t the N orth Star. Its light seems to
travel from that essence of dem onstrated celestial energy in a straight
jin
etoour eyeballs. Because it so travels, for all practical purposes of
■vision, we say “there is nothing betw een the North Star and our eyes
but Space.” But m ayhap w e are by no m eans telling ourselves the
>truth. Mayhap there is everything betw een the North Star and our
>
eyeballs necessary for the construction or integration of a planet just
asbig and substantial as our earth, only it is existing in a “free” or
*uncondensed state. In other w ords, all that space which we im agine
I tobe so “empty,” m ay truly be filled w ith world-stuffs— in the form
5
o
fundemonstrated m aterials— to precisely the quantity contained in
j theorbon which we stand to get our view of the star. Because we can’t
seeit at the moment, doesn’t prove th at it isn’t there. There happens
■
tobesuch a thing as A tm osphere blanketing around our earth, but no
oneas yet has ever seen it. A ll of us, how ever, concede its existence,
becausewe “breathe” it. In other w ords, w e get our dem onstration of
]itsreality through other senses and physical functions than the eyes,
j B
ut there is still another phenom enon about the condition of “free”
.spacebetween the North Star and ourselves, that w e are prone to ig-
inore. It is the universality of direction which the Light display is
;achieving, and which parallels the existence of free energy in that area.
QWe look at the North Star and accept that its light is traveling in
■
iastraight line, from star to our eyeball. It bears every appearance of
1givingout a ray, like a beam from a searchlight, that travels the mil­
lionsof miles from the polar star to the spot w here we m ay be regard­
ingit. But if we move a foot to right or left, or a hundred miles to
right or left, or even if w e travel off this planet altogether and regard
j thesame stcir from V enus or Saturn, the searchlight-beam effect still
jholds. What, therefore, is being dem onstrated but the fact that the
j staris not giving out any searchlight beam at all, but that its radiance
!isbeing projected in every direction at once, and finding its w ay to
every corner of the universe— so long as there be no solid bodies to
5
obstruct it. Light from that star, in fact, is as universal as the scent of
an orange becomes universal when released in a room by m
erely
puncturing the peel.
The light from that distant polar star— which is truly a great sunset
at immense distance— is shining out in spherical pattern, and filling
every nook and cranny of space as it goes. Nothing but the peculiar
construction of our own organ of sight makes it appear to take the
searchlight-beam pattern.
By the same token, we have Free Energy existing in interstellar space
but unrecognizable until it attains an effect that our senses can react
to, in their own peculiar and circumscribed function. It is as om
ni­
present as radio waves bringing the same voice or music into ten
million homes and into whatever rooms in those homes the receiving-
sets may be erected in.
But something suggests to all that omnipresent Free Energy that it
should begin to coagulate, and get into pattern—to form a forthcom
­
ing planet. W hat is it? W here does the initial motivating Forceof
Direction for that primordial electrical potency come from?
The folklore contained in Genesis describes it that “in the beginning
all was without form— and void— and darkness was upon the faceof
the deep. And the spirit of God moved upon the face of the w
aters.
And God said: Let there be light, and there was light.*’ All of w
hich
fixes up the Fundamentalists to a tee. All the explanation theyrequire
seems to be that “God did it,” and beyond it they are not supposedto
think, t ? t ?
What the Fundamentalists are not aware of is, that in the original
texts, the word used, indicating God, was “Elohim”—which again
translated literally meant, “the Spirits that were the stars.” Takenote,
by the way, that the term is employed in the plural sense.
“The Spirits that were the stars” moved upon the face of the “w
aters'*
and brought Form out of the “deep” and the “void.” WHAT spirits
of W HAT stars? W hat is this ancient Chaldean lore trying toconvey
to us?— for it is Chaldean, and not Hebrew. The Hebrews plagiarized
shamelessly from the wisdom of surrounding nations, exactlyasdothe
Jews of today— when we let them!
H A T it is all too p aten t that the Chaldean authorities
w ere a ttem p tin g to convey in the opening verses of the
B ook o f G enesis w as, that coagulation of Free Energy
beg an in respect to our own tenantless area of Space
w h en inifluences from surrounding heavenly bodies
b eg an to be of such a nature that the Free Energy in
our own T im e-Space A re a w as affected, and started to be driven in
rotating pattern. E lectrical planetary influence came into our Space
area in one p otency an d traveled freely till it met an intersecting in­
fluence sim ilarly traveling from som e other centrosome. The two
collided and m oved a t a right-angular direction till a third influence
was sim ilarly encountered. A fter a series of such meetings, collid­
ings, and re-directings, a circular m ovem ent was begun— or, as we
say, etheric revolution w as created. W hatever influences came to
bear upon th e m ass antagonistically w ere overcome, if they happened
to be less th an th e m om entum already generated. If the influence was
greater, and tending in the direction of the mass, then such influence
only helped th e m ass on its w ay, to still more awesome momentum.
The electrical display w hich, w hen incandescent, we commonly call
nebula, could th en be faintly perceived growing in our particular por­
tion of the heavens— had there been watchers on other planetary
systems to observe it, w hich there probably were!
W hereupon, this electrical nebula began to coalesce and combine in
the different atom ic assem blies, m aking for what man now knows as
the planetary m aterials— the minerals, metals, chemicals, and vapors.
The free Space in o ur particular portion of the heavens was becoming
a gigantic chem ical retort— or at least a laboratory—where atoms
and their protons and electrons w ere finding their affinities, quite in
the sam e fashion th at they are m ade to repeat the process synthetical­
ly on a sm aller scale, in the physicist’s laboratory of today.
If the rationalizing reader asks at this point where the original energy
cam e from , th at helped to project the First Influences making for the
first batch o f planets— or heavenly bodies— whose influences w ent
forth like th e N orth S tar’s rays and affected Free Energy for the mak­
ing of subsequent w orlds, w e m ust answer in terms of metaphysics
that have to do w ith the com ponents and eccentricities of O m nipotent
T hought. T hese are th e m ore logically expounded in the Liberation
Scripts— particularly those Scripts that affect to give the Transcenden­
tal definition of G od as differentiated from Holy Spirit. In this series
of papers, w e are confining ourselves more or less consistently to
7
astronom ical physics. W hat is of the more urgent interest at
point, is the query concerning the behavior of the more complj^JJ
atom s in the mass. O n this behavior rests the whole structure^
planet composition and subsequent history.
T ry to get this if you can—
T he more complicated the atomic structure, as regards protons
electrons, the greater the density of the resultant “material,” andtl^
denser the resultant material, the nearer to the center of the Energy
Coagulation the m aterial will locate. In other words, the more furiou*
and concentrated the atomic energy, the more readily it will act asthe
centrosom e— or core— for that which is being manifested as an em
­
bryonic world. A nd about and around this core or “most furious
and complicated display** lesser displays and simpler affinities w
ill
adjust themselves— in w hat physics ordinarily labels Specific Gravity,
€J This means, in practical effect, that the heaviest of all materials w
ill
be found composing the core of the borning planet, and the lightest,
or gaseous, materials will be found on the outer surface. Surfaceis,of
course, more or less of a metaphorical term to use here, inasmuchas
all the materials in such a nebulous world are in a state of stupendous
flux. Such a nebula— that down future aeons will be a planet assolid
as our present earth— is moving at a scarcely graspable rate, w
hich
like a G argantuan wheel, would tend to keep the most of the lighter
fluid or gaseous essences on its outer edges.
In all of this, take note, w e are not departing far from the generalex­
position set forth allegorically in the opening chapters of G
enesis.
Scientists tell us that back in the times when our planet first took
shape, it m ust have made a complete night-and-day revolution ina
m atter of three hours or thereabout, as compared to the twenty-four
hours which it requires for a revolution today. This meant that allthe
lighter substances in the mass— w ater particularly—would be hurled,
and held, something like 17,000 miles above what was later tobecom
e
the planet’s inhabitable surface.
So it was with our earth in its beginning.
O ur earth, however, is an old, old planet. The time is ahead whenit
may slow down to a complete stop as it feels the restraining influence
from other heavenly bodies. Then it will lose its atmosphere and
emulate its moon, rolling through space a cold, dead satellite. O
nce
this earth rotated on its axis every three hours, so fast was its speed,
holding its w ater content aloft by sheer centrifugal force. This m
eans
that every drop of free w ater in its oceans was once in the skies,
8
a
0 miles in the skies. A s the earth slowed its speed, the centrif-
H l decreased and allowed those water oceans to fall. The last
/ t precipitated the Flood of Noah.
o
f^ gent, as aforesaid, the earth has slowed to a point where it takes
A
tpty,four hours to m ake its revolution. Its oceans are all on its
and its heavens are clear. W hen our earth slows to a point
I its revolution is alm ost imperceptible, or stops altogether, then is
■ danger of being draw n into the orbit of some neighboring planet
sU
n that may be exhibiting a strong centripetal pull; thereat will
°rm
ea flash in the heavens, similar to that seen any evening; a star
C
fthefirst^magnitude will be born to live for an instant and then flash
o
U
t, If it Soes crashing into another heavenly body which has exerted
itsinfluence to pull or attract it, a new force of energy may be precipi­
tatedto travel forth and help build up a new planet in turn,
fluis it may be said that it takes two or more planets to make a new
o
n
e, Wherever a collision precipitates a condition that causes points
o
f interference or opposition in the exhibit of free radio-energy, or
opposition or turning m otion as I have described, out of the centro-
som
e, you have some new form of creation in the Cosmos.
H
owmany years it requires to get a spiral nebula to a point where it
begins to assume a definite outline, like our present sun, we do not
know, and it is unim portant because outside of this finite system of
Cause and Effect, Time is no factor. But suppose you have a great
spiral nebula congealing and condensing into such a form as our sun
nowexhibits. Great life-giver that it is, none the less, its condition
represents the status of our own earth hundreds of millions of years
inthe past.
Would the hypothesis astound you, that our sun is potentially a new
planet in process of condensation?
9
ET us carry the thought of this great spiral nebula m
ack
of uncountable trillions of electric granules. Thinko
f
the same process applied in the manufacturing of m
a-
terials. If you have a nucleus of Positive electricity,w
ith
an affinity of Negative electricity traveling at an in
-
credible rate of speed around it in an orbit, youhavethe
composition of the electric granule, out of which Matter is built u
p,
Different rates of velocity with which the Negative charge, or electron,
is traveling about the Positive core or proton—or different com
bina­
tions of electrons revolving around different combinations of protons
— give different qualities of materials.
Hydrogen, for instance, is the simplest exposition of this great prin­
ciple. One charge of Negative electricity revolving around a single
Positive core, gives the composition of hydrogen, the simplest ele­
ment. There maintains in ether all those types of electrical charges
which must build up from impacts of various energies meetingoppo­
sition. This would seem to suggest Chaos in the original cosmos. S
oit
is Chaos until straightened out, and those electrical’charges straighten
themselves out, by laws of specific gravity of a sort—those com
bina­
tions which are the more complex forming the denser central m
ass
and leaving the less complex, or “lighter,**on the outside orthefarthest
point from the centrosome.
W hen a spiral nebula is evolved in space by impingements of energy
projected out of neighboring heavenly bodies, the moment arrives
when the mass begins to generate heat and therefore incandescence.
That portion which turns the slowest is known as the Core. Inth
is
vast field of force, circular in outline, is projected the result thatw
e
call a sun, incandescent as its rays impinge on other substancesandare
diffused, iff i f f
The old, old question: what makes the sun round, is not the plati­
tudinous blither that we may have accepted, not knowing certain
processes at work in the cosmos. What makes any sphere round? In
the field of physics we are told that roundness comes to liquidbodies
moving in free space because of an equalized pressure of atm
osphere
all over their surfaces with a strength of 14.7 pounds to the square
inch. But in the case of planets out in airless space, there canben
o
such atmospheric pressure, for they may have no stratosphere about
; them and still be round. A theory not generally accredited now,but
I which presents many plausibilities for research, is that there m
ayh
e
such a thing as external energy pressure, operating precisely as air
ressure now exerts itself on free bodies. M olten lead, let drop from
Phigh place» shape itself into a sphere. Thus did our grandfathers
* colonial time make their b ullets; from a tall tower they dropped
molten lead toward the ground. A s it fell, it cooled. It cooled in
perfect spherical shape because of an equal pressure of surrounding
atmosphere upon the m olten lead.
flewton believed that he discovered the Law of Gravity. H e thought
anapple fell to the ground because the earth “attracted” it. W hen we
investigate some of these com m only accepted principles, w e discover
that just because they have been generally accepted does not neces­
sarily mean that they are true. Som eone m ay come along ultimately
and“discover” that apples quitting boughs and landing on the ground
arepushed by some force above them , and that in that pushing a radio­
energyis applied from above. T he etheric condition, of itself, m ay exert
this pushing movement that w e have always assumed to be the earth’s
attraction. ±gr
Coming back to the com position or m anufacture of planets, we find
oneinvariable Law of the Process perform s: that each and every planet
originates in the same w ay, and goes through definite stages of as­
sembly or growth; and by turning our telescope about the heavens,
' andobserving the various bodies in different states of materialization,
wecan trace definitely those stages of assem bly or growth of our earth.
Ifwe turn a telescope on Saturn, w e find a m olten planet with a series
of rings or belts about it. T he ordinary person thinks these rings
strange and wonders w hy S aturn has them in particular. He is not
informed that such rings exist on S aturn because it is one planet falling
within the reach of our lenses th at is going through that particular
phase of its generation and evolution. U ndoubtedly there was a time,
as we shall see presently in our surveys of Geology, when our earth
exhibited the same phenom enon. O ur earth likewise had its rings
and belts. And incidentally, the fact th at this is so, presents us with a
stupefying array of evidence accounting for m any of the theological
concepts that have appeared in m en’s m inds, but which have never
been satisfactorily explained, even by astronom ers.
Spirit of God moved upon the face of the water*I
tTTTvH are told in Holy Writ. And it is entirely proper f0ril^
to ask: W hat waters? 8t°
We know that water is of chemical composition, C
O
ltl
pounded of two parts of hydrogen and one part oxygen
Therefore, to get this peculiar composition of chem
icals
orderly processes of chemistry must have been going on for sometim
e
before God’s Spirit could “move” upon the surface of the volumeo|
the result. “And God said: Let there be light, and there was light.”
In other words, it became perceptible to mortal senses. “And Hesaw
that it was good.” That is, it served a constructive purpose in the
Cosmos. “And God divided the light from the darkness.” In other
words, Matter had condensed to that point where pressure and heat
were possible, and had become opaque enough to display its heat as
incandescence. “And He called the light, day, and the darkness H
e
called night.” Take particular note here that nothing has been said
as yet about the sun and the moon’s being the cause of spatial illum
i­
nation. A* iff
Your immature or illiterate Higher Critic will immediately demand:
“How are you going to get day and night without the sun and the
moon to determine the degree of revolution that the planet may be
making in free space?** Let us therefore consider what goes on inthe
early stages of planet-making.
It is not generally known, that if our earth were to speed up its revo­
lutions seventeen times as fast as its night-and-day revolution of the
present, every drop of moisture within the earth’s mass, to say nothing
of the waters in its surface lakes and oceans, would fly off into the
heavens and remain suspended by centrifugal force seventeen thou­
sand miles above our heads. Thereafter nothing would bring it down
to the earth’s surface again but a gradual slowing down of the speed
at which the earth revolved in space. The same principle wouldwork
that we saw displayed when, as children, we were sent after milk in
the twilight. Bringing home the milk in a pail without a lid, we found
that we could whirl it in a complete circle at arm’s length without a
drop of the milk spilling out—if we did it fast enough! If we were
not careful in supplying the proper speed, however, the contents fell
out and our clothes were drenched.
By the same process in physics, with the earth turning at seventeen
times its present speed, all molten or liquid or gaseous material was
held for ages at an exact distance from its surface according to the
12
rav ity of the m aterial itself. W e can accept the hypothesis
specific g^eavjest material w as suspended at the lowest altitude from
^ arth and the lightest m aterial w hirled at the farthest distance.
Given^he speed of the earth ’s revolution at any particular time, and
specific gravity of the m aterial suspended or w hirling above it, we
can determine with reasonable accuracy at w hat altitude any given
material was suspended. T hus w e begin to get our first fundam ental
ofthe stupendous Ring System that m ust once have m aintained about
ourearth, exactly as w e see rings today about Saturn.
There is one astronomical theory, stoutly defended by scientists, that
rings of telluric m aterial around any given planet do not necessarily
fall upon that planet, b ut congeal of themselves and form satellite
bodies such as our m oon, that continue to revolve around the planet
sopossessing those rings originally. Just how a ring, completely dis-
}tributed around a core-planet and traveling at an incredible velocity,
congeals or condenses into a spherical satellite in defiance of all known
laws of physics applied to the m otion of the ordinary wheel, is not
made clear. This unique hypothesis goes on to declare that because
planets like Jupiter and Saturn, farthest from the sun, seem to have
; the lightest specific gravity at present, while planets like Mars and
| tarth, nearer the sun, have the heaviest, the former must somehow be
| connected in their origins with the lightest and farthest forms of
| telluric substances originally swirling about the sun. Logic might
i decree that somehow this great ring system, revolving about and with
I a planet, came into friction with some influence on its outer edge that
j rolled portions of those rings into satellite-balls. But we confront
■difficulties in accepting this, when the spectroscope translates the light
I from such satellite planets and discloses metals and minerals in the
| composition of them that could not possibly have existed and whirled
1on the outer edge far away from the central planet. There is another
I and more reasonable explanation in the Annular Theory that we shall
have expounded as we continue with these discourses.
All scientists an d astro n o m ers do agree, how ever, th at a t one tim e th e
earth’s stratosphere ex ten d ed so fa r into space th at it included the orbit
of our m oon. In o th er w ords, it h ad a d epth ranging anyw here from
200 000 to 700,000 m iles before th e e a rth ’s crust w as reached. A t
the present tim e, w ith th e e a rth ’s speed slow ed to a p oint w here it
takes tw enty-four hours fo r a given po in t on its surface to again
sent itself squarely to th e sun, it is only a m atter of a few thousand
f ret ou t from o r above the ea rth ’s surface before w e get into a condi-
tion where oxygen and nitrogen are so scarce that physical life cannot
endure. 2$ 2$ .
With the earth’s surface traveling at the incredible velocity that per­
mits a revolution in three hours, and gradually slowing down to a
velocity that permits a revolution in twenty-four hours, we have a
precipitation of the telluric substances with which the balling up of
satellite planets has nothing to do. We can, on the contrary, figure
at what point the heavier telluric substances would plunge downward
to the earth’s crust; and in confirmation of this theory, we find that
the dates of geology disclose exactly the same laying down of sub­
stances on the earth’s crust in such sequence and order. What more
potent proof could be forthcoming, that the rings did not ball up into
satellite planets, but fell to earth and thus disappeared, until now we
have cleared skies, and layer on layer of the substances buried beneath
the surface of the earth, that were once held in the skies by centrifugal
motion? 2& 2?
I
i
1
OW, knowing as we do that our planet has the spherical
form, we can easily see that it has always had its greatest
centrifugal velocity at the equator, just as the rim of a
wheel travels faster than its hub. On the wheel basis,
the earth, as the hub, spins at one rate, and the titanic
rim that is the equator and all suspended over the equator
far into space, spin at greatly increased rates; determining our speeds
from a geometrical point beyond the rim.
If our earth at one time turned completely around in three hours, the
probability is that telluric Matter in its primeval stratosphere was
whirled aloft into belts and rings that increased in velocity six to eight­
fold over that of the earth at its surface. If we use the equation of one
revolution in twenty-four hours, and our planet is approximately
26,000 miles in circumference, the surface of our planet at its equator
is traveling past points in interstellar space at the rate of about a thou­
sand miles an hour. Consider, then, what the centrifugal force on the
outer rim must have been when the planet made its revolution in three
hours. I say, at that greatly increased rate, such stratospheric ma­
terial would be cast into the skies as high as seventeen thousand miles
—for a material of the specific gravity of water, less for the minerals
and metals, and more for the gases. And the fact that it was so cast into
the skies, or held in the skies, over untold aeons, does more than all
else in human logic to solve the many mysteries that have perplexed
14
j befuddled hum ankind in the com plex features of folklore and
Mythology accounting for plan etary and hum an beginnings.
us give this great astronom ical and geological principle the im­
portance it deserves— an im portance too little recognized by scientists
jSwell as theologians. B ecause, determ ining this principle, and build-
jjigupon it, we discern w here the m isunderstandings of geologists have
c
om
e from, regarding the plan et's origin and developm ent. W e like­
w
ise discern w herein those m isunderstandings are directly and con­
cretely responsible for equally w rong thinking and reasoning in rear­
ingour spiritual and religious structures, m aking for the peculiar type
o
fcivilization we are experiencing at present.
W
efirst confront our planet E arth, the forthcoming stage for a great
human drama, as a spiral nebula in which are silicon, copper, lead,
oxygen, hydrogen and all the other chemical compounds, m ixed w ith
prodigious amounts of carbon spew ed up from a hundred thousand
smoking volcanoes and fissures in the new planet's crust w hen the
core has been form ed and the spherical shape begins to develop.
Whirling at a velocity that provides it w ith a three-hour day and this
speed gradually decreasing, its core or nucleus acquires a denser and
denser specific gravity as telluric m aterials are laid down upon it,
making for weight. These m aterials are laid down in incalculable
tonnage as the core's speed decreases and the centrifugal force is
lessened, allowing the suspended rings to fall and add to the volum e
of that nucleus. A s these rings are thus precipitated crustward, and
theweight of their substances applied, their pressures make h eat; heat
calls for expansion, expansion m eans explosion of some kind, and
high into the skies again are projected the original precipitates in the
form of carbon, or partially consum ed telluric substances, from the
furnace of the molten interior.
Thus over and over again, the process is repeated, w ith the burned or
molten material in the deep interior fusing together and making a com­
pact center. Always a refining or combing process is going on over­
head, the precipitates of greater density staying on the surface of the
growing nucleus, and exploding only the lighter precipitates into the
heavens again. M eanwhile the planet, because of its growing w eight,
and also the friction of substances w hirling against ether on its outer
edge, is slowing down in velocity. A fter a long period, it follows that
all substances must fall dow n to stay down, the last to descend being
hydrogen and oxygen in the form of w ater.
H
OW the question of carbon and its place in an evolving
planet, needs a moment’s special consideration. What
is carbon and why does it play such an important part in
this nebular ring system? Suppose we take such a
homely illustration as your fireplace in your modern
home. <1 You put fuel in your fireplace and set it afire,
season after season. In the subsequent combustion, a portion of that
fuel is released into your room in the form of heat. A portion falls to
the hearth as ashes. But by far the greater portion travels up the
flue in the form of carbonaceous smoke. As it travels upward, par­
ticles cling to the rough surface of the bricks making the chimney;
they become charred over and we say that the chimney is filling with
soot. That amount of carbon that does not adhere to the bricks,
reaches the outer air over your roof, and in spewing forth is recog­
nized as smoke. If you go into the yard, however, and watch this
vomiting smoke, you will see that it is heaviest and blackest at the
point where it leaves the chimney. In the exact ratio that it travels
into free air, it begins to diminish in density and gradually disappears.
W hat truly is happening? Where does smoke go? It unites with air,
or oxygen and nitrogen, and is chemically changed into an invisible
gas.
Such carbon, however, will not unite with oxygen and hydrogen, or
water, and does not in the greater fireplace process that is the infant
earth. It becomes instead, wrapped up in water, or insulated by water,
and in this insulation is prevented from combining with air and
disappearing.
It is shot into the skies, as water containing it is driven high above
earth to escape its heat. In that status it will stay preserved and sus­
pended so long as the water insulating it is thus preserved and sus­
pended. Now consider another point—
There comes a time when your chimney walls are so encrusted with
carbon that it catches fire of itself. Remember that carbon is burnable
material that has not completely combusted. You say that your
chimney “burns out.’* In this process, you have a miniature explana­
tion of the phenomenon of coal.
Coal is not petrified vegetable material as ignorant people popularly
suppose. Because it is often found impressed with fossiliferous ma­
terial, patterns of ferns and leaves, a wrong idea as to its origin has
been given out. We shall see in a subsequent discourse how fossils of
ferns and leaves leave their marks in carbonaceous strata that are
16
nablyclose to the surface of the planet. But coal as carbon is laid
I by first having been combustible material that has not gone
tig
h Process °f complete combustion, being lifted into the
^ beingprecipitated upon earth anew along with the great deluges,
HIcovered up by sedimentary strata and left for mining for future
aerations of mortals. Thus it is not the “buried sunlight” of the
^timentalists. Those who think of coal as metamorphosed vege-
^lematter are ignorant of the fact that beds of pure graphite, a basic
yn of coal, are found deep down under the earliest pre-Laurentian
^k—
rock admittedly formed ages before the first leaf or blade of
grass ever put in an appearance on the earthly scene. How did it get
■there, ifthe carbonaceous forms that make for both graphite and coal
arederived from decaying vegetable forms? And further, if coal were
derived from decaying vegetable forms, why should not the greatest
scoal-beds be found in the vicinity of the equator where vegetable
'putrefaction and disintegration are greatest? The fact remains that
jtheyare not. Equatorial coal is not only the sparsest, but the poorest
inquality. On the other hand, the greatest and richest beds are dis­
covered in the north and south temperate zones, growing increasingly
heavy as the poles are approached. Why at the poles? Because cen­
trifugal force is least, almost to the point of zero, at the poles, and
thus the precipitation of combustible stuffs from altitudinal suspen-
Isions would be heaviest there as the decreasing centrifugal velocities
1proved inadequate to sustain them. But once having come down, re-
j posing onthe earth’s crust, there would be another type of centrifugal
force immediately operating on them. That would be the spherical
contour of the planet. Bulging toward the equator, where the globe
turned fastest, there would be a tendency to spray from the poles to-
!ward the equator while this deposited strata lay in an igneous state.
Asthematerial became distributed thinner and thinner in the direction
ofthefaster-turning equator, it would make the carbonaceous deposits
thinner andthinner, and of increasingly poor quality. Thus the nature
ofequatorial coal is accounted for.
HEN we study the rocks and minerals, we find a projec-
tion of similar density from the poles southward or
northw ard toward the equator, as the case may be. At
the equator, or throughout the equatorial regions, we
find w hat might be term ed the residue, of all these
telluric materials that originally reached the earth from
on high by precipitation near the poles where the centrifugal force of
the swirling stuffs decreased and finally permitted them to fall. In
other words, they left the equatorial rim, or fastest point of motion,
and slid off tow ard the poles, as the planet’s speed lessened. This
sliding-off process was irregular or gradual because of the lessened
speed of various areas of the planet’s surface, centrifugally speaking,
and the result was a series of belts or canopies covering the entire span
of the north and south tem perate zones. One by one these belts came
down as the planet lost mom entum over untold periods of time, leav­
ing open spaces or clear areas at the poles themselves— open spaces,
as we shall see, that engage no small notice in the literature, mythology
and folklore of all ancient world peoples.
There w ere m any substances in these rings that had the same specific
gravity as carbonaceous coal and would therefore be found in the same
descending belt or ring with it, thus guaranteeing their presence in the
subsequent geological strata w hen the precipitation had taken place.
Thus we find the infusion of m any substances over, through, and
under, the various strata.
The periods of tim e through which this must have taken place, are
appalling to contemplate. Each day this earth turns more and more
slowly. This slowness is so imperceptible as to seem almost negligible.
By such a measuring-stick in the present, one should grasp the lengthy
periods it required for each one of these bands or canopies of materials
of a certain specific gravity to work its way poleward from the equa­
torial mass and finally reach a point where centrifugal force could not
sustain it aloft.
The last precipitations at or near the poles would be chiefly composed
of water. These w ater precipitations, coming down close enough to
the polar surfaces to contact arctic cold, would complete their descent
in the form of colossal and instantaneous avalanches of snow. That
which would be a flood similar to the Flood of Noah, in temperate or
equatorial lands, would mean a vast fall of snow-particles in the polar
areas. So sudden was this snow precipitation in many times and
places that animals like the arctic mammoths were caught with their
18
nks upraised, co n v e y in g v eg etab le nourishm ent from treetops to
|heir mouths. I h av e ta lk e d w ith reliable visitors to extrem e northern
lands who have seen th e se sn o w -en to m b ed m onsters.
One friend of m ine d eclared th a t w hile traveling in extrem e northern
Canada, he w itnessed fro m a fa r a stu p en d o u s snowslide. A t one point
the snow seem ed to b re a k in a sh eer vertical wall of ice, leaving ex­
posed a m am m oth th a t h a d b e e n so entrapped, probably at the instant
of the W ater R ing P recip ita tio n w hich w as called, farther south, the
Flood of Noah. So fresh w as th e m eat th at w hen m y friend drove his
,dog sled close to th e ex h ib it, th e canines got out of control, threw
themselves upon th e re frig e rate d carcass and began to consume it.
The mammoth had b een so w ell preserved that blood was discernible
in the veins of its eyeballs. T h e suddenness w ith which the entombing
snowhad fallen, w as p ro v en b y th e fact th at the anim al’s stomach was
filled with half-digested fo o d w hich had entered it thousands of years
before modern tim es.
For generations there h as b een dissension am ong scientists and geolo­
gists concerning the tru e causes o f th e G lacial Epochs. Tim e after
time the northern su rface o f o u r planet, and the extrem e southern
areas as well, have been b u ried u n d er polar ice-caps. Gradually these
worked their w ay so u th w ard a n d northw ard, from the Poles, in glacial
advances, entering th e w arm er tem p erate zones and melting, dropping
their loads of telluric silt an d boulders, until the entire ice caps had
disappeared. C ontrary to g en eral belief, little new snow falls in either
polar circle itself. T he cold is so in tense the year around, that there can
be no actual m elting of sn o w to rise in the form of evaporation and be
precipitated dow nw ard. E xplorers in the extrem e north have found
dog-sleds, supplies, and bones of deceased explorers, lying on the snow-
covered ground as n akedly as tho u g h they had been strew n there a
matter of hours only. T ru e, th ere are occasional blizzards of unm iti­
gated fury. But a blizzard is only a blow ing about of free snow already
precipitated.
Glaciers of the glacial or ice ages, w ere m erely vast packs of snowfalls
resulting from the w ater-ring precipitations. A s each ring fell, it laid
dbwn its snow blanket w hich in process of tim e w as throw n south­
ward by the centrifugal force due to the peripheral speed at the bulg­
ing equator. C om ing dow n into the north and south tem perate zones,
the snow disintegrated as w ater. A n d so long as there w ere w ater
rings in the sky to float n o rth an d south from the equator and fall in
the vicinity of the poles, there w ould be succeeding glacial ages.
19
The last water-ring has now fallen from the skies—it fell as the well-
known Flood of Noah—which means that the last polar ice-cap has
been laid down.
Both Lemuria and Atlantis probably existed during the closing phases
of this water-ring precipitation. For hundreds of thousands of years
men probably looked into the heavens and saw wonders that have now
passed forever from the sight of mortal men. And underneath that
gigantic canopy—over that portion of the earth that was able to sus­
tain the belts of water and telluric material on the whirling wheel
principle—that extended nearly to the poles, where the arctic cold
came in, man experienced a greenhouse condition of tropical heat.
HE movement of the rings and belts poleward, was of
course so imperceptible that a whole arctic ice-capwould
have time to melt, and tropical conditions prevail up
near the top of the world, before the succeeding ring or
belt fell and smothered northern or southern extremities
with new polar ice-caps. Far into the northern and
southern polar worlds, scientists find forms of plant life that approxi­
mate those found in the equatorial countries of the present. There
is of course, a variation in the polar axes of the earth. The oldest
records purport to remark on twelve polar deviations, occurring, 21,-
000 years between each. Remains of crocodiles have been found in
northern Siberia, their original home, and these reptilian graveyards
have been mined as an invaluable source of commercial ivory. It is
unthinkable, however, that these reptiles should have waited to be car­
ried into realms of arctic cold, by planetary deviation. The more
plausible theory would seem to be that they existed in the north under
the greenhouse roof of the water-ceiling and were caught and extermi­
nated, like the mammoth mentioned, by th£ sudden avalanche of snow
falling from a height of 17,000 miles and burying them in an instant
of time—exactly as a meteorite would shatter them if they were caught
directly in its pathway.
We shall discern, in developing this theme, where the statement came
from, that “God divided the waters which were above the firmament
from the waters which were below the firmament.*' Literally there
was a stupendous ocean high in the stratosphere, exactly as there were
water oceans on earth, but the latter were too impregnated with ma­
terial of heavy specific gravity to allow them to join the cleaner and
clearer waters whirling aloft in the skies.
20
Ajrroborating the acco u n t in H oly W rit again, this quite scientific
hypothesis w ould also acco u n t for the succeeding G arden of Eden
^rstive. For ben eath such a greenhouse roofing, m an w ould live in
^ Edenic condition; he w o u ld exist in a state of nudity purely because
0fthe planetary h eat; h e w o u ld b e in a state of “innocence** because
jj6would be unable to see th e starry heavens beyond this screening
^ater-veil and realize th e location of him self upon a planet in universal
8
pace. The w hole hypothesis of G enesis, corroborates and confirm s
the hypothesis of the w ater-veil condition, even to the serpent sym ­
bology that puzzles so m an y practical-m inded people.
A
swe shall see presently, all these w ater-rings and belts, flowing and
deploying in action seventeen thousand miles overhead— at a height
; that would m ake detail m ore or less indistinguishable— m oving from
west to east, w ould present th e aspect of a tree growing from horizon
! to horizon. This gave m ankind its first idealism of a Tree of Life,
guarded by a serpent th at w e are told tem pted the M other of A ll Liv-
i ing. Is it difficult then to perceive th at the great band of carbonaceous
material, that w as thickest a t the equator, and most djiscernible be­
cause it was lowest in altitude, should have appeared to archaic m an
I as a serpent coiled in the center of the branches of this stupendous
SkyTree of Life?
Those water-rings and canopy-veils, as they broke aw ay one by one
toward the north and south from the equatorial mass, m ust have as­
sumed strange shapes. O utside and beyond them , though forever
screened from actual view , w as the sun, the m oon, and the higher
stars. Coming in through the polar openings, w here there w as no
centrifugal force to m aintain an y suspensions, w as the radiance of
the sun, obscured from all other areas of the earth. Striking the op­
posite sides of this encircling w ater-blanket, its radiance w as diffused,
creating a display of splendor such as the eye of m an has never looked
on since.
As the more solidified earth-core m oved from west to east at a faster
pace than the vaporous an d carbonaceous m aterial held in suspension
overhead, by centrifugal force, hum an beings on the surface of th at
solidifying earth-core w ould perceive such vaporous and carbonaceous
material in long w aving bands th at appeared to m ove in the opposite
direction, from east to w est.
From such optical phenom enon could easily come the legend of the
Tree of Life. C arbonaceous, striated bands in this rippling “tree-
vapor** would w ear every aspect of a serpent tw ined in the branches
21
of that tree. Under the ceiling made by such suspended waters, the
terrain condition would be hot-house misty, with plant life growing
to prodigious proportions without the killing, actinic ray from the
naked and unfiltered sun’s light to arrest them.
W e know that Science has corroborated the one-time existence of the
gigantic horsetail ferns. And the Book of Genesis says plainly that
“a mist went up from the ground,” in the allegorical Garden of Eden,
“ and watered it.”
This “mist that went up from the ground” would be an impossible
wonder of physics, when we stop to think of it, unless the conditions
prevailed which we are considering. How could a mist “go up” from
the ground, and yet at the same time “water it?” Why didn’t the
water-mist stay in the ground where it was? Why “go” anywhere?
€f But when we consider an earth whirling much faster than at pres­
ent, we know from the ordinary laws of motion that free water, as in
the oceans of the present, could not have adhered to the planet’s sur­
face. It would have been flung up into space and sustained there, its
height depending positively upon the earth’s revolutionary speed at
any given moment, year, or cycle of planetary development.
This massive water-volume, containing all the waters that are in the
seven seas at present, would have formed a universal canopy over the
planet’s surface, screening m an’s view of intersellar space, and pre­
senting conditions beneath it quite like the misty conditions which we
find prevailing in behind Niagara Falls at present. There was this
difference between conditions under that water canopy then, and in
behind Niagara Falls now, however: the internal heat of the earth,
which had not cooled to its present temperature, made a gigantic
spherical radiator of its much thinner crust. In behind Niagara Falls
of the present— as anyone knows who has taken that famous trip—
the atmosphere is chill and dank. Under the water canopy of the
antediluvian world, the globe’s internal heat, coming much closer to
the surface than today, made a hot-house condition where vegetation
grew as lush as in our tropics of the present, and where human crea­
tures went nude because clothes would have been insufferable.
Here was the true Garden of Eden condition, I say again, and it ex­
tended over the whole earth, not merely throughout one little tradition­
al corner of Mesapotamia.
The radiance of the sun, filtering through these oceans suspended in
the skies, turned the world a delicate pearl-gray, while to north and
south, in the neighborhood of the poles where there was no centrifugal
22
,tio
nto hold th e o c e a n w a te rs su sp e n d e d , d ay lig h t e n te re d th ro u g h
Br :ngs that describ ed a n a rc h w a y — b ecau se o n ly a h a lf o f th e circu-
or ^ nings over each p o le c o u ld b e se e n b y a h u m a n sp e c ta to r stan d -
V on the planet’s s u rfa c e a t a n y g iv e n p o in t.
H we know th e tr u th a b o u t th is a n te d ilu v ia n c o n d itio n o f th e
* a the G arden o f E d e n a lle g o ry d o es n o t seem so fan tastic.
and theology h a v e n a rra te d w h a t D ID h ap p en , b u t th e reaso n s
it happened, a re n o t so c le a rly u n d e rsto o d or ex p o u n d ed .
ayhoW, the faster ra te a t w h ic h o u r globe once w hirled, indicates
■ n0 water could h a v e b e e n a llo w e d to b e d ep osited u p o n its sur-
l
. All was m ist, u n d e r th e g re a t W a te r C an o p y o bscuring earliest
aflkind’s v*
ew ° f th e h e a v e n s. A s th e e a rth ’s speed slow ed, th e cen-
trifugal ^orce w as w e a k e r a t th e poles, a n d finally m u st h av e reached
apoint of w eakness w h e re th e w a te rs an d th eir co n tain ed m aterials
jouldnot stay susp en d ed b u t p lu n g e d to earth .
getween the cooling off o f th e p la n e t’s su rface so th a t p lan t, anim al
human life could e n d u re u p o n it, a n d th e clearing o f th e heav en s
^so that present atm o sp h eric a n d w e a th e r features could prevail—
tfasthe great G arden-of-E den P e rio d o n th e planet, w herein mem w en t
stark naked because clothes o f a n y so rt w o u ld h av e proved insuffer­
able, and of which w e shall h e a r m u ch as w e look a t the Biblical sto ry
ofcreation in the light o f A stro n o m y a n d G eology!
A
swe shall see in fo rth co m in g L ectu res, th e condensing, cooling, an d
shrinking planet— feeling th e restra in in g influence from o ther h eav en ­
lybodies—gradually slow ed d o w n . O v e r u n co u n tab le aeons o f tim e,
the run of its day b eg an to le n g th e n , because th e slow er a p lan et
whirls, the longer its d ay a n d n ig h t.
A
s the planet slowed, a n d its d ay s an d n ights grew longer, th e v ast
oceanic w ater-content held a lo ft in th e skies, began to com e closer to
itssurface and the b u lk o f it slide off in th e direction of either Pole,
where the centrifugal force w as w eak est.
Finally, when the e a rth 's m o tio n reached th e exact p o int w here this
greatwater-bulk could n o t b e held alo ft, th e latter took to falling u p o n
theearth’s surface in a series o f F loods.
The last great w ater-canopy precip itatio n , w hich cleared the skies o f
suspended w ater for all tim e, w as th e catastro p h e th at en ded th e h o t­
house condition prevailing in th e leg en d ary E den, an d m ade M an p u t
onclothes. He had to don clothes, fo r he began to feel the influence
ofthe zero cold that w as reaching him un o b stru cted o u t of interstellar
space. If he hadn't d onned clothes, h e w ould have frozen to death.
2 3
<
][ Moreover, with the unobstructed heavens visible to his gaze at last,
Man grasped that he was on a heavenly planet, and got his relation­
ship to all the other celestial worlds. He had thereby “eaten of the
knowledge of the Tree of Life,” and become as a God in his own
right. Jfcjr Jfc*_
The Edenic condition ended and Man’s troubles in a world of changing
weather conditions began.
More of this later, as we consider the Lecture on the Edenic After-
math— “W hen the Mississippi Rein Northward!’’
24
