{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n14_what_we_know_about_lost_lemuria.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N14 What We Know About Lost Lemuria","mylang":"de"}
What We Knoidjhih
the Lost Le
, * -«». TtfcsS -»** —le g # ■gwwj fcgZ5*gBSfcfc3&gEg^ -xt u,-.-i>~
-■ * •;* ? !?£ ? ■ ?? ••• ■:.
The Fourteenth of
The
galahad
l e c t u r e s
“What We Know
About Lemuria”
BEING THE FOURTEENTH OF
The Galahad Lectures
HE GALAHAD LECTURES constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric History of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first forms of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantem and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer of 1932 and have been recorded
andpreserved in this form for students of'the Foundation Fel­
lowship. C The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of Metaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in Mortality and for accurate
knowledge of the souTs enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth.
i
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BYPELLEY
PUBLISHERS OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA ±* POST OFFICE BOX 2630
SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE LIBERATION
SCRIPTS S* ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR *
HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE
STRUCTION TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY &
1
1
What We Know About Lemuria1
1
THE FOURTEENTH LECTURE
T IS a generally accepted notion that man’s
culture is the product of his own creative gen­
ius. He explores from point to point in the
sciences and arts, associates ideas, builds hy­
potheses, and draws deductions. No matter
whether it be rigging a skin sail on a hollow
log or launching a Leviathan, on arriving at
certain points in his evolution he forthwith
creates that which he needs according as he
has tried and experimented. This notion
is endorsed by his so-called books of History.
Ihavebefore me a remarkable book called The Stream of History, by
Geoffrey Parsons, that enjoyed a wide circulation some fifteen years
ago. After examining briefly the four geologic eras and tracing the
biological evolution of man up from the ameba, Mr. Parsons writes:—
“History begins when man first left written records of himself which
havebeenpreserved. That was only 3,000 or 4,000 B. C., some 5,000
or6,000years ago. The story of the earlier period is called prehistory
andthe period is called prehistoric. This division is still important in­
sofar as it points to the invention of writing, one of the capital dis­
coveries of man. It was formerly also highly important because it
markedthe beginning of all knowledge of ancient man. This distinc­
tionhas faded away as the past, before the invention of writing, has
beenslowly but steadily reconstructed by archaeologists. The dates of
theearly Egyptian dynasties carved in rock do not tell as much as the
skeletons, weapons and tools buried beneath the floors of caves in
southernFrance, all dating from a period before writing was invented.
^ “ In historic tim es the order of events and the length of time elapsed
are generally clear. In prehistoric times one enters a different realm.
T hanks to the labor of archaeologists, the life of these early men hat
becom e am azingly definite. O ne can know in many cases how they
lived, w hat they ate, to the fraction of an inch their height, their length
of bones, the cavity of their skulls. The year when these men lived
is unknow able; it is not even a given century or a certain thousand
of years. T he m ost im portant event in the development of these early
m en cannot be fixed w ithin tens of thousands of years. The archae­
ologist finds a skeleton in a certain stratum of rocks. The geologist
can tell him w hat w as happening then to the face of the earth; he can
tell him w hat cam e before and w hat followed after. He can, by meas­
uring the thickness of the stratum , give a rough estimate in tens of
thousands of years of the tim e which it took for the strata to be laid
dow n by rain and w eather. T hat is the most that he can do. In ex­
cavating the floor of a cave the archaeologist faces a like problem.
Here the m atter deposited is chiefly the work of man, skeletons, tools,
the rem nants of meals, the slow dust of time. Here also rough esti­
m ates are the best one can expect.
“Take for instance the im portant question of the total length of the
glacial periods: that is to say, of all Quaternary time. The figure of
500,000 years has been m entioned as a rough estimate. In fact, the
estimates of the geologists range all the way from 100,000 to 1,000,-
000 years. It simplifies proportions to use definite figures, but it
m ust be clearly understood that 500,000 is simply a rough average of
the m any estimates and possesses no pretense to accuracy or finality.
CJ “The farther back the record of man is traced the hazier becomes
the picture, the more limited the evidence. A point is finally reached
at which the existence of weapons and tools fades into doubt, and for
actual hum an bones there are only the remnants of three skulls, one
from Java, one from Germ any, one from England, all much debated,
upon which to base a reconstruction of such men as then lived.
Digging for remains of early m an is going on constantly, in India and
elsewhere, wherever the hypothesis of the archaeologist suggests the
likelihood of discovery. A t any m om ent there may appar fresh facts as
to these first men. But at the present time little can be taken as certainty
in these early years, and the hour which holds the greatest interest is
tbat in "which the picture first becomes definite and undebatable—
—
'when
the stone weapons clearly chipped by hum an hands are found in quan-
4
'tv and enough skulls and bones are in existence to present the men
t o usclearly.
•‘
That is with the arrival of Neanderthal man, thus named from the
^ve near Dusseldorf, Germany, where the first skeletons of this type
w
ere found. That important event has been dated by the geologists
ashavingtaken place in one of the warm periods between the glaciers,
gut as has been noted, there is much doubt as to how many advances
andretreats of the glaciers took place, and there is some doubt as to
exactlywhich warm interval saw the development of the Neanderthal
m
an. Going back to the question of years, the best one can say of
thisclear arrival of man is that it took place not less than 50,000 years,
normorethan 200,000 years ago; and that accepting for convenience
thefigure of 500,000 years as the total of the Ice Age, these men be­
gantochipstone weapons in Europe about 100,000 years ago.
“Thousands of these stone tools and weapons have now been discov­
ered, studied, and classified in Europe, and the archaeologists have
basedupon them an accurate and fairly detailed history of the develop­
m
ent of the early men. In the deeper strata the stone weapons are
theroughest sort of rocks, chipped a little on one end to give a sharper
edge, and that is all. They improve until at the end, just before the
discovery of bronze, these early men of Europe were chipping and
polishingspearheads and axes as beautifully proportioned and finished
asany tool of steel.
“For something like three fourths of the Stone Age, primitive man
never thought of polishing his stone tools. He chipped them, flaked
themmore and more expertly, but never attempted what seems the
obvious and easy job of smoothing their surfaces. For some 90,000
years he waited to make this simple invention. There could not be
betterproof of how slowly and painfully the first gains were won.
"M
an, the most advanced man, remained in the age of polished stone
toolsfor less than 10,000 years. He discovered bronze, used it for
1,000to 1,500years, and then made the greatest discovery of all, iron,
byw
hich the modern world has been built.
"Roughly speaking, man began to leave written records about the
tim
eofthe discovery of bronze; therefore the Bronze Age marks the
beginningof historic times. The Bronze Age and Iron Age overlapped.
T
hereisevidence of iron in Babylonia as early as 3,000 B. C.**
S
osaysGeoffrey Parsons, able and interesting historian that he is. I
havequoted him at length as an exhibit of the complacent way in
w
hichuniversally accepted “truths’*are recorded as the basis for our
' 5
present culture. Such statements as the foregoing paragraphs read
smoothly, they sound reasonable, in fact irrefutable. It gives a sturdy
polish to such works to quietly insist on written records as presenting
unassailable facts about our racial beginnings, and to gloss over the
author’s lack of knowledge about past eras by assuming that ancient
man was a savage who jum ped in his culture from the Stone Age to
the Bronze.
HIS citation is an excellent illustration of the slipshod and
inaccurate assumptions that make our modern learning
the inhibited and circumscribed thing it is. There is
hardly a paragraph of what Dr. Parsons has so glibly
penned with such professorial certainty, that cannot be
“shot full of holes” so obviously that, at the risk of seem­
ing to disparage an able and sincere contemporary, I maintain such
expositions are utterly adolescent.
As grounds for what might seem to be my own arrogance, I call your
attention to his remarks concerning the transition period from Stone to
Bronze. Every metallurgist knows that bronze is a highly developed al­
loy, first requiring extensive experimenting with copper and with tin.
Before humankind could possibly have had a bronze age, it had to
have a copper age. It had to be so adept in the knowledge of metals
that it could experiment with scores of combinations, derived fromall
parts of the earth, and gradually perfect the alloy that we call bronze.
It was doubtless in the relentless search for a way to temper copper
as he later tempered steel, 'that man hit on the next best thing to tem­
pering, or the admixture of tin. But these experiments are not car­
ried on by forest savages. They postulate immense periods of time, a
high degree of scientific culture, and an intimate knowledge of mining
in far-separated parts of the earth.
It is easy to write that man smoothed up his Stone Age implements
and then transferred into the Age of Bronze, as though he had found
chunks of pure bronze lying around the entrance to his cave as he
might have found chunks of granite or flint. The average student,
knowing nothing of the immense stretches of time required, or the
intermediate scientific steps necessary to evolve so intricate a metal
as bronze, carries the idea about that all that was required for the sav­
age to shift from stone to bronze was the idea itself. The notion pre­
vails that, recognizing copper and tin scattered about on the ground,
he perhaps dropped them into his food pot to see what would happen,
6
iatwith a fire under the food pot they fused together, that he waved
Iecooled mass above his head and cried as he ran from the door of
cave: "Hooray! I’ve discovered bronze. Now we ll have a Bronze
%
r * * .
a
swell expect the ignorant savage in a fen to cast away his knotted
cjuband suddenly perfect the process of Bessemer steel, squatting be­
foreH
isgrass hut while his fifteen squaws look on.
furthermore, in considering the transition from Stone to Bronze, we
jrejustified in asking the historians of the accepted school where sav­
ageor barbarous mankind secured the tremendous amounts of copper
utilizedin the Age of Bronze. While copper is widely distributed in
nature, occurring in most soils, ferruginous mineral waters and ores,
andhas also been discovered in seaweed, in the blood of certain
Cephalopoda, and even in the colored wing-feathers of the turaco,
itw
as first recognized in our modern era as coming from the isle of
C
yprus. The Romans termed it aes cyprium, which was gradually
shortenedto cyprium and corrupted into cuprum, whence come the
Englishword copper, the French cuivre, and the German kupfer.
T
hemost prodigious yields of copper ore in the known world, how­
ever,have come from three regions wide apart: Siberia in Asia, Corn­
w
all in England, and Michigan in North America. Lesser deposits
havebeen located, notably in Austria and Bolivia in ancient times,
andwith the opening of our Far West in the recent generation Utah
andIdaho have contributed their portions. By far the greatest of all
theancient fields, however, was our own Lake Superior region, where
metallurgists have estimated that 200,000 tons were removed from
oneworking in prehistoric times. One wonders where such stupen­
dous quantities of this metal went. Certainly the implements and
w
eapons of barbarous man, that are known to us today, represent no
suchwholesale consumption.
Just to show how adept as metallurgists these vaunted Dawn Men
w
ouldhavehad to be, let me describe to you some of the processes and
technicalities involved in bringing this universal metal up to a suffi­
cientlypure state to combine it with tin:—
S
ince all sulphureted copper ores are invariably contaminated with
arsenicand antimony, it is necessary to eliminate these impurities in­
sofaraspossible, at a very early stage. This is effected by calcination
o
r“roasting.” The roasted ore is then smelted to a mixture of copper
andiron sulphides, known as copper matte or “coarse metal“ which
contains little or no arsenic, antimony or silica. The coarse metal is
7
now sm elted w ith coke and siliceous fluxes, in order to slag off the
iron; and the product, consisting of an impure copper sulphide, is
variously know n as “blue metal** w hen more or less iron is still pres­
ent, “pim ple metal** w hen free copper and more or less copper oxide
are present, and “fine** or “white** metal, which is fairly pure copper
sulphide, containing about 75 percent copper. This product is then
resm elted to form “coarse copper,** containing about 95 percent cop
per, w hich is then refined. Roasted ores may be resmelted in rever­
beratory furnaces, the English process, in blast furnaces which is the
G erm an process, or in converters, the Bessemer process. By the Ameri­
can process a certain am ount of cuprous oxide is always formed, which
m elts the m atte in blast furnaces. The impurities contained in coarse
copper are m ainly iron, lead, zinc, cobalt, nickel, bismuth, arsenic,
antim ony, sulphur, selenium and tellurium. These can be eliminated
by oxidizing fusion, and slagging or volatilizing the products resulting
from this operation. In the process a certain amount of cuprous oxide
is form ed, which melts in w ith the copper and diminishes its softness
and tenacity. It is therefore necessary to reconvert the oxide into the
m etal. £ * ±2*
It is lam entable that more historians, who write off the early stages of
m ankind’s “development** so glibly in half a dozen pages devoted to
“barbarism,** cannot be geologists and metallurgists themselves. For
instance, they convey to the student the idea that copper was known,
worked, m ixed with alloys to give other metals, and generally used
for all practical purposes before iron was discovered. They ignore
the fact that copper cannot be smelted, as described above, without
getting iron and drawing it off that pure copper may result. Is it sen­
sible to believe that smelters over the long period of time necessary
for the evolving of intricate processes incident to successfully com­
bining copper with tin to get bronze for universal use, failed to recog­
nize iron for w hat it was, paid no attention to it, threw it away as a
slag and left it to men down thousands of generations to refine and
utilize it for the benefit of mankind?
8
|HAT I am striving for in all this seeming criticism of his­
torians of the orthodox school, is to indicate their slip­
shod methods of accounting for great civilizations and
cultures that seem to have appeared magically from the
racial stocks of the so-called Dawn Men. I am contend­
ing as a hypothesis, first, that two mighty civilizations
filledin gaps between the many epochs of barbarous “dawn men," in
w
hich such metallurgical skill came into flower, civilizations much
furtherevolved than ours of the present; second, that what these ortho­
doxscientistsand historians take for dawn men, or the half-animal pro­
genitorsof the human species, were not such at all, but merely colonial
remnants of the peoples of these great lost civilizations who had sur­
vivedthe monstrous cataclysms of water, ice and fire, epoch by epoch,
and, in remote sections of the world, gone native, as we say, or drop­
peddown into barbarism because such cataclysms had devastated or
demolished their mother cultures with their attendant erudition in the
advancedarts and sciences.
Saying that man appeared on earth as a sublimated monkey, sulked
forseveral ages on the shores of the fens, made stone implements, dis­
coveredcopper and bronze and then erected an advanced civilization
andculture by the uses to which he put iron and steel, is a neat, con­
cise, straight-line hypothesis for the child-mind to grasp, accounting
formanas we behold him at present. Unfortunately for the accuracy
ofsuchchildish reasonings, the earth is filled with evidences of proc­
esses, architectures, cultures, languages and ethnological divisions of
thespecies, that challenge and upset at every turn the validity of the
puerile exposition aforesaid. The orthodox historian takes no ac­
count of these. He is like a youth with a great jigsaw puzzle before
himthat must be put together. He selects the biggest and simplest
piecesonthe table, fashions them into an elementary design, and then
w
henhebeholds the hundreds of equally vital pieces remaining, segre­
gatesthem as worthless, or pushes them over the table’s edge out of
sight inorder that they may not trouble him or imply that his design
iswrong from the start.
It ischaracteristic of human logic that it wants to build from cause
toeffect. Accrediting a given cause because all other men accredit
it,humanitystrives to make the jigsaw pieces fit by force, wholly miss­
ingthefact that its basic design, or original hypothesis, may be utterly
false from its very inception. The argument advanced against this
assumptionis, that if the hypothesis were basically wrong, millions of
9
men would long ago have discovered and corrected it. There seems
to be a comforting reassurance about the endorsement of a given
theory by the masses, irrespective of whether those masses are learned
or ignorant, whether they have investigated the facts or have merely
permitted so-called scholars to give them the facts from their own
deductions, I f t f
It has not yet dawned on millions of people that the whole world may
have had an unwritten history, a history that despite all seeming eru­
dition of the present, has been utterly at variance with the assumptions
of savants of the past hundred generations. If the chronology of such
unwritten history utilizes all the jigsaw pieces on the table of universal
events, and results in a perfect mosaic, whereas the generally accepted,
straight-line-of-evolution theory is pretty much of a porous patch-
work, is it not reasonable to conclude that man has not only been
blind but has allowed himself to be taught by the blind?
It is to account for the human races as we discern them in their vicissi­
tudes back over a thousand generations, and demonstrate that all the
surplus jigsaw pieces can be utilized, that all of us are expending tim
e
and money to apprise ourselves of this Liberation teaching and its
revolutionary enlightenments.
Instead of pushing pieces for which we cannot find places, over the
edge of the table, because they will not fit into humanity’s wrongly
conceived pattern of the present, we scoop them all together and
shuffle them anew, saying to one another: “Now let’s try a different
pattern from the very outset. Let’s see if there may be a hypothesis
which humanity has entirely overlooked or ignored.’’
Proceeding to do this, we are stupefied to learn that all the pieces now
do fit together. They seem to prove our altered hypothesis by the
very perfection of their integrations.
10
AVING considered man as a spiritual creation, come
down into earthly animal forms in a state of “innocence*’
to occupy those forms until he has absorbed the experi­
ence-lessons of mortality, and having followed him
through the great creative epochs which ended with
cleared heavens that disclosed his planetary isolation to
K
im
.w
enow Procee<
i to study his social development and cultural or­
ganization from an equally radical standpoint: that social develop­
m
ent and cultural attainment have not been a straight-line evolution
fromhalf-monkey dawn men to the civilized Nordic of today, but
ratheraseries of cycles, each one expanding larger and rising over the
otherlikesuccessive circular markings around an inverted cone.
W
egrant that this is something new in teaching which will therefore
bechallenged by the comfortable theorists building their historical
hypotheses on what other men have accepted from what they are
pleasedto label remote antiquity. But when a few thousand years is
sufficient to account for the evolution of the Cro-Magnon man into
theerudite Chaldean or Egyptian, and when learned geologists find
askullat a certain stratum depth and pronounce it as belonging to a
race200,000 years old, and then excavate still deeper and discover
anoldhoop-skirt of the year 1852, we would seem to be entirely justi­
fiedinquestioning the validity of their findings as a basis for scholastic
culture. Not that hoop-skirts have ever been discovered under the
stratathat gave us the vaunted Neanderthal and Java Men, but even
inourownday we have seen too many terrain catastrophes cover vast
regions with alluvial mud, or tumble civilizations deep underground,
toaccept as irrefutable that the earth’s surface covering is Creation’s
lastwordas to what men have been.
W
earecalled to examine a fresh and virile hypothesis that the earth
liasseenawhole series of great cultures come to fruition and diminish,
orbeutterlyeffaced from academic record. We are called to hold his­
torians of the Parsons school in mental abeyance, and investigate
hitherto inexplicable evidence that two great continents once existed
w
herevast oceans now roll, and that on such continents, in chronolog­
ical order, stupendous cultures matured of which our own civiliza­
tio
nismerely a new and primary repetition.
W
eare called to examine, in forthcoming Lectures, irrefutable evi­
dence of such lost cultures that has been glibly ignored by popular
historians, and take up in order the attainments of the Lemurians and
theachievements of their successors the Atlanteans.
11
The argument that when man reaches a given point in his social evolu­
tion he goes out and invents what he needs, is not a sound argument,
as we shall see presently. Man doesn’t invent what he needs. If that
were true we would have all races of men proceeding along the same
cultural lines in their development and arriving at the same status as
their common needs multiplied. All human beings have the same
needs and yet all do not evolve the same cultural processes. There
are vast areas on the planet that are peopled by human beings who are
not only unable to evolve those inventive processes which we describe
as mechanistic but are unable to recognize or appreciate that they
need them. There seems to be something lacking in them spiritually
which would enable them to conceive what they are lacking in human
facilities or moral evolvements. As we examine the available his­
tory of the earth’s savage tribes, we do not find them possessing the
same tools or weapons, and there are tribes even today that have not
yet learned the efficacy of the bow and arrow, of the birch-bark canoe.
<
fl Great invented mechanisms seem rather to be gifts bestowed upona
race at a certain point in their spiritual awareness or in their compre­
hension of the destiny toward which all are striving. They are be­
stowed at a particular period in such spiritual evolution, in order to
supply a spiritual contribution toward the moral enhancement of the
individual. Take the “invention” of the small, low-priced automobile,
gasoline driven, of the past two decades. Coming as and when it
did, it remodeled our social life, abolished our community provincial­
ism, and opened a new vista of physical enjoyment of our country and
its prospects. The airplane is doing the same thing on an international
scale at present.
These things appear as humanity is ready to profit from them spirit­
ually. Humanity in the individual had just as many brains in the
time of Cyrus, the Persian, as man has today. Socrates and Plato
are still objects of scholastic veneration for their mentalities philo­
sophically expressed. Why then, did not Socrates and Plato “invent”
Ford cars and trans-Atlantic planes? Because humanity the earth
over was not ready for their increments, spiritually. Much in the way
of social evolution had to come first.
And uniformly we find these inventive periods and processes being
introduced by great souls, the same inventive entities in each cycle,
who appear in flesh to make such contributions to recurring and ad­
vancing cultures according as man s ability to utilize and assimilate
may warrant.
12
AN has a queer blind spot in his make-up. He accepts
from Universal Spirit without recognizing that he is ac­
cepting. He says in substance: “Because 1 cannot see
with mortal eyes those who ordered this gift for me,
1will admit no evidence that it was bestowed upon me,
or that it has been a gift at all. 1choose to believe that
fnresentedit to myself, and insofar as I am concerned, there the mat-
Crests.” iff iff
If w
egobackover the generations, time and time again we find whole
civilizationsand whole races representing epochs of achievement that
l^arnocomparisons to one another. Different parts of the world have
m
aintained different races who were given mechanisms and cultural
enlightenm
ents that other parts of the world were not.
W
h
enw
ego back into the dim morning hours of earthly time, back
inunder the water canopy, we find that men were beginning to ab­
so
rbaknowledge of astronomy from the clearing heavens. At the
sam
etim
ethe sun’s actinic rays commenced to shorten their physical
liv
e
suntil, when the skies were fully cleared, those individual lives
h
adbeenclipped to three score years and ten.
N
o
wthese naked actinic rays pouring down on the unprotected sur­
fa
c
eoftheearth as well as upon man’s unclothed body, began to exert
n
osm
allinfluenceon man’s social constitution. With a vaporous water
can
o
p
yenveloping the earth nearly from pole to pole, climatical con­
d
itio
n
s beneath would be more or less uniform. Therefore men’s
m
anners of living and behaving would follow roughly a pattern in
fundam
entals. iff iff
W
itness in logic, however, what m ust have happened w hen this
canopywas precipitated and the naked earth w as exposed to the sun,
m
aking for differences of climate all over its surface, scarcely any
tw
oportions exactly alike. Men along the equator, w here the sun
exposure was greatest and most consistent, w ould dress differently
frommen who lived their lives high in the arctic circle w here the sun
w
asdenied them as the supplier of warm th. M en in northern G er­
m
anywould have different colored skins from m en in Brazil, for not
onlywouldthe tanning effects of the actinic ray be different, but plant
lifeaffected by climatical changes w ould supply variated foods w hose
nutritive effects would alter anatom y. D ifferences in com position and
n
atu
re of skin and food would m anifest in peculiarities o f cultures.
A
nd with differences in cultures m ust follow m isunderstandings in
processes of thinking, each toward the others as on e race w as m ade
13
to experience conditions which other races far removed, could not
recognize or appreciate.
Then too, there came the never-to-be-ignored catastrophes which af­
fected one part of the planet and not another, resulting in the holding
of differing ideas regarding the Deity by earth’s peoples, one set of
men thinking Him cruel and vengeful because of terrestrial tragedies
which they had been called upon to suffer, and another set thinking
Him wise and just because they had known nothing but generosity
and consideration, ostensibly at His hands. Immediately when these
philosophies came into conflict, racial and often religious antagonisms
resulted, which further differentiated the races from one another.
It is a queer and perhaps instinctive trait in human character that when
man confronts a catastrophe he usually interprets it in terms of divine
wrath and penalty. The idea probably comes from the fact that his
earthly rulers contrive to inflict physical suffering on him when he
disobeys their fiats. God, therefore, is but one step higher in the
mortal scheme of things, and is ever conceived as a glorified earthly
potentate, following the social eccentricities of earthly tyrants. Suf­
fering is essentially chastisement. Man’s nervous system is such that
physical pain is something he must automatically flee from, because
of the insufferable reactions that penetrate to his seat of consciousness.
Therefore those who have ever been strong and courageous have been
in a position to inflict chastisement on those who were weak and timid.
C
[ From the cradle to the grave, from the beginning of one system to
another, man ascribed that which his parents or his king had inflicted
upon him when he was disobedient, to the Deity, whom he credited
with following the same procedure by projecting catastrophe in return
for malfeasance.
Picking up the most archaic civilization of which we have any impli­
cation in any records anywhere, the continent of Lemuria spreading
over that area which is now the south Pacific Ocean, we find this
penalty idea so firmly intrenched in the psychology of the species that
it gradually spread to all other parts of the world. In addition, the
disappearance of this great continent, as well as its later contempora­
ry, the continent of Atlantis in the Atlantic Ocean, so impressed and
appalled man the world over, that he made the catastrophe-penalty
idea practically the basis of his culture, certainly of his explanation for
the differences in races.
14
HIS inheritance has come down to us in much more potent
form than we realize. People have witnessed great calam­
ities occurring to other races and said: “We have not suf­
fered them, therefore God in His infinite wisdom must
be indicating that we are better or more moral than those
whom He has so patently destroyed.” Or they may have
suffered those natural calamities and said: “We must have been
sinfulelseit never would have happened. Our parents and potentates
never punish us when we are not guilty of malfeasance. Can God be
lessequitable than they? The catastrophe is here. Therefore let us
repent, so that it is not visited on us again.” Immediately the priest­
hood, priestcraft and priest-graft have mittened on this reasoning and
said: “You are entirely correct. We have talked with God about it
andHe has assured us that you are even more sinful than you have
acknowledged. But if you will only put yourselves the more com­
pletely under our domination, we will take the matter up with God
andseewhat we can do to fix it for the future.”
N
owit ischildishly easy to say that a continent or a country has been
destroyedbecause its people were wicked. The same reflex makes the
ten-year-old call out to his playmate across the street: “If you don’t
stopswinging on your front gate, you father will whip you when he
com
esfrom the office,” forgetting that the boy across the street may
not have been so cautioned or threatened with such penalty by his
father, or that he may not have a father at all. The first little boy is
judginghis playmate by what his own father has said to him.
T
hemature person, viewing disruption of a continent, does not neces­
sarily depreciate or ignore God when he looks first to the natural
geologicalor climatical changes that have so manifested, for the cause.
F
orhereasons thus: “If catastrophe is to be put on the penalty basis,
w
hydoes a just Providence erase the good along with the wicked?
F
orthat iswhat happens, without chance for argument. Such a God
m
ustbedoing wrong to the good, to punish them, or make them suf­
ferforthesins of the evil element. Even though, from the metaphys­
ical standpoint, they come back to earth again sooner or later, why
askthemto work out such additional Karma because their neighbors,
o
r groups within their social organization, have been malicious or
I predatory?” tp t?
Suppose, considering their religious demarcations, or eccentricities of
racial psychology in regard to the temperament of the Almighty, it
couldhave been explained in advance to races of men that natural or
i »
5
geological processes, such as the settling of an overload of alluvial
material on the ocean’s bed, caused destruction that could be figur^i
on in advance.
Suppose, to be specific, the Great Teacher had taught men: “At a
given period in time a certain amount of sediment deposited on the
earth’s crust from celestial water-precipitation, or melting of a glacial
coat, will cause such-and-such weight, pressure, heat, and explosion,
projecting a major catastrophe upon an allotted area of the earth’s
surface. We know that if the people inhabiting such area persist in
living in those localities, mishap will come to them. Among those
people, true, will be included many who entered earth-life to get the
lessons of catastrophe, or the increments that come from contactw
ith
those who are going to perish. We must view life, and our concepts
of God, however, on the premise of what is being worked out inthe
race as a race. All will profit from experience, no matter what that
experience may be. But some will have learned the lessons of ex­
perience more thoroughly than others. Therefore, knowing from
geological deductions, based on precipitations, that certain catastrophes
will accrue at a given date, the Celestial Council that presides over
such matters synchronizes the instigation, development and maturity
of a certain culture, so that it will come to fruition at the time such
catastrophe, from geological reasons, is due to happen. B
ut
all this is not to punish anybody. It is to discover and prove howm
any
persons under that culture have learned and absorbed the enhance­
ments it was intended to furnish them. And this discovery andprov­
ing are achieved by erasing the culture, making use of geologicalcatas­
trophe to accomplish it, and bringing most of its souls back into life
and letting them found that culture over again, based on what they
have spiritually retained.”
If the Great Teacher had taught this exposition, and mankind had
been able to reason it out and accept it, how different wouldhavebeen
the story of the races.
In considering Lemuria and Atlantis, therefore, as we are about todo,
some such process accounting for their disappearance, both as con­
tinents and as civilizations, should be borne in mind.
The flowering of certain nationals, or groups of souls within a given
civilization, will reach a point where it is advisable that they be re­
leased from all connections with that culture, for an entirely different
order of experiencing over a long period of time to help them in round­
ing out their characters. Returning to earth being an elective process
16
more or less, destroying a given culture often seems to be the only
way in which some souls can be deterred from reincarnating in it
through preference.
Then another factor may enter into reasons for eliminating a conti­
nent and “destroying” a civilization. It may happen that there are a
vast horde of men and women peculiar to that civilization who have
not learned its lessons, while another horde of souls have availed them­
selves of the spiritual profit offered to the moment by its experiences,
although they have not advanced for enough to graduate entirely from
earthly experiencing and may have karmic relationships with the
backward group that are still to be completed.
The destruction of such a civilization will necessitate its rebuilding
by those who have not learned all the lessons it had to give them.
They will go back into life again and again over a hundred genera­
tions, and gradually attain to the achievements of the former culture.
That is to say, they will start back at the beginnings of that civiliza­
tion, bring it up to the flowering it had attained when the wholesale
catastrophe occurred. By that time, those who had not learned their
lessons at the time of the catastrophe will have brought themselves
to the same degree of attainment as that achieved by those who had
learned their current lessons at the time of the catastrophe. Being
nowon the same level of achievement, both classes will join together.
Those who have been waiting in the discarnate status for the recalci­
trant ones to so improve themselves, will begin to re-embody in the
renascent culture, and the two classes will in company carry that
civilization to a still greater height.
Of course the secular historian hoots at such causation of calamity,
anddwells in academic horror on the misfortune which seems to have
com
eeither to innocent peoples or to those who must have been fright­
fully “wicked” in order to precipitate such penalty upon themselves.
But those adept in the higher wisdom, who have recourse to those
ancient civilizations by means which only puzzle or terrify the ortho­
doxscholars, have private attestment that no angry God is ever back
of stupendous terrain upsets.
The magi of the ages have known from time immemorial that there
exists a celestial council that watches and controls the development of
races, sets the boundaries of peoples, sends master-souls to put in mo­
tion great principles of statesmanship, and generally coaches and de­
crees the rise and fall of civilizations. Only by knowing of the exist­
ence of these high mentors, their rights arid prerogatives, their func-
17
1
tions and fiats, can the true student of history read the vicissitudes0f
humankind correctly. It may be a new way to do it, and slightlyun.
orthodox. But it does reveal facts and factors that to the m
aterialist
are unsolvable enigmas.
Periodically the celestial council may decide in effect: “This people
or that nation, has served its purpose in the celestial political program
.
They are no longer deriving from their social state that which most
profits the greatest numbers of individuals in the climb humanity i8
making toward the cosmic ideal. Therefore suppose we blend this
race with that race for a time. Let us institute a new race here, o
r
erase that race there, more or less permanently. This culture isb
e-
coming decadent, therefore we will let an adjoining people comeover
in martial attack, or peaceful penetration, and instil new lifeblood
into it."
Economy of effort and energy is a law of Nature, as well as a lawo
f
the social cosmos. As soon as a species or a culture begins to show
itself inefficient in the purposes for which it was originally brought
into being, it is either allowed to perish or it is as deliberatelydestroyed.
In races, one nation wars and absorbs another, or tribes intermarry
and a new combination of peoples is born. Over all the years and
ages since man first emerged from under the misty water-canopy,
there has been this constant kneading of peoples, races, groups and
individuals, who have had their apparent vicissitudes—which have
never really been vicissitudes at all—at the behest of supernal intel­
lects having their finger in every activity, every cultural alignm
ent
that history has recorded.
This might seem to some to be necromantic conjecture damagingthe
accuracy of an avowedly ethical work such as this Unwritten H
istory
of the World affects to be. But it may be demonstrated as theselec­
tures continue that perhaps the orthodox materialists may have been
wrong in their secular deductions; that there is more evidence lefto
n
strange markers in strange places attesting to truth behind the so-called
necromancy, than there is logic behind the faulty and easily perforated
acceptances of accredited scholars.
We, at least, are not dodging any issues in mundane attestments, how
­
ever complicated, paradoxical, or enigmatic. And we have corrobora­
tions from the greatest intellects that the world has ever known.
18
|HE EARLIEST continent or country on which any stress
is laid in present wisdom either secular or esoteric, and
which developed any degree of ethical culture affecting
humanity of the present day in its institutions, is popu­
larly known as Lemuria. W e get its name from the
Latin word lemures, meaning ghosts. In other words,
the implication is that a great ghost continent, or a continent that is
nowbut a phantom of reality, once existed upon this earth, its origin
and history lost back in antiquity.
The name was first applied by Linnaeus to certain peculiar M alagasy
representatives of the Primates, or that family of animal beings that
donot come strictly under the designation of either monkeys or apes,
and,with allied animals from Madagascar and tropical Asia and Africa,
constitute the suborder Prosimiae or Lemuroidea. Too m any people as­
sumethat lemurs are apes. But they constitute a branch of the verte­
brate order that seems to partake of both m onkey and rodent, and to
have affinity with no other species on earth. The supposition, there­
fore, is that they once belonged to a continental species that has per­
ished from the globe, leaving fossil remains and the lemurs of the
present to attest to its existence.
Lemuria, as either the secular or esoteric scholar understands it, was
avast continent that once occupied what is now the south tem perate
zonein the Pacific Ocean, reaching from Easter Island, two thousand
m
ilesoff the coast of South America, around to Australia and perhaps
northward into the vicinity of Japan.
Inother words, in days when there were no such vast oceans on
this earth as there are at present, a great m other continent ex­
istedin the south Pacific of which the South Sea Islands of the present
arebut the mountaintops left unsubmerged when that continent slow­
lysank.
There are those who contend that Lemuria was originally called the
Landof Moo, or Mu, and that it derived its nam e from the infant’s at­
tem
pt to say the word mother, or mamma. This philological deriva­
tive is rather far-fetched, however. Those who have access to the
language through “lifted memories’’ contend that the correct pro-
nounciationof the name was nearer to Mar than Moo, the word Maya,
pronounced as May-yar, or Colony of Mar, being a rem nant of the
appellation, in its modern form.
Faintly, from the archaic past, we get occasional rumors, esoterically,
ofan even more remote continent known as Adoma. This was sup-
19
posed to occupy most of the north Pacific. Inferences have beenm
ad ■
that not only did a mighty civilization come to flower upon it,butthat
the beings who dwelt upon it lived such terrific periods of archaic
time that they finished up all earthly lessons and graduated off int0
other planetary systems. That, however, is purest conjecture.
Hieroglyphics on monuments in Yucatan would have it that thehu­
man race has been in an organized social state on this globe ovei
5,000,000 years. Scientists concede that the earth as a heavenlybody
may well be at least 3 billion years old. Einstein declares hebelieves
it to be nearly 7 billion. Esoteric instruction makes occasional refer-
ences to the fact that mankind has been upon this celestial orb for2
8
million years. Such vast lengths of time mean little to us. W
e are
interested in cultures, or evolutions, that are the direct progenitorso
f
our civilization of the present, in order to read the future fromth
e
past. Atlantis is supposed to have gone down about 9,600 yearsB
.C
.
It was in its prime 23,000 to 50,000 years ago. Its predecessor,
Lemuria, is estimated to have been in its prime about 175,000 years
bygone.
Converse with ancient Lemurians, in their own language, by those
who can speak it in the present day, gains inklings of a geological
process by which Lemuria arose in the south Pacific when A
dom
a
gradually sank in the north Pacific. These two mighty continents,
balanced on the equator, let us say, as on a colossal fulcrum, dida
mammoth seesaw act. Today, assuming there is sense in the inform
a­
tion, vague as it is, both great continents have long since gonebelow
the level of the Oriental ocean and nothing remains to mark A
dom
a,
not even an island. Of Lemuria, however, we have many authentic
attestments still in existence.
That Lemuria probably sank slowly, in comparison with Atlantis, is
the reason that we do not hear of it in association with catastrophe.
That it was peopled with a great red race, undoubtedly the A-Dom
,o
r
Adam, people of the Bible, the first true human race, is worth accredit­
ing. The outlines of this continent we have not had preserved foru
s,
but that it had flora and fauna of its own, different from anything
in later earth cycles, we can easily and safely assume by w
itnessing
what we discover on the continent of Australia.
Australia is the only continent entirely in the southern hem
isphere.
The salient features of the Australian continent are its compact out­
line, the absence of navigable rivers communicating with its interior,
the absence of either active volcanoes or snow-capped mountains, its
20
isolation from other lands, and its antiquity. Some of the most pro­
found changes that have taken place on this globe occurred in Meso­
zoictimes, and a great portion of Australia was already dry land when
vast tracts of Europe and Asia were submerged. In this sense, there­
fore, Australia has been rightly referred to as one of the oldest existing
landsurfaces. It has at once been described as the largest island and
thesmallest continent on the globe. It has been the flora and fauna
ofAustralia, however, that have attracted most attention to the con­
tinent and led the world’s greatest scientific thinkers %
owonder wheth­
erit was not at some time in the very remote past, an important sec­
tionof the Lemurian continent with a vegetable and an animal life all
itsown and which were supplanted by wholly different forms in other
areas as the later continents made their appearance and developed
their own particular forms of plant and animal activity. Even a
schoolboyknows that the kangaroos of Australia and adjacent islands
arenot found as true species anywhere else on the globe’s surface at
present. 5s*
Facts that present a more credible interest in this great lost mother
continent, however, than flora or fauna, are contained in the ethnolog­
ical migrations recorded in the folklore of the people of the Orient.
Uniformly they declare they came from the east. There seem to have
beenin ancient times, two great streams of migration proceeding con­
tinuously: one eastward from Easter Island to and through the Titicaca
Straitsto the Amazonian Sea and South America, and thence to south­
ern Atlantis and the west coast of Africa; the other, westward to
India, Burma, and China.
Thepeople making the first westward migrations seem to have settled
inBurma, which in the language of that country is translated): “The
N
ewLand.” If Burma was the New Land, it is logical to ask, W hat was
the “old”? At any rate, those peoples spread over India, Tibet, and
China. Ethnologists who have tried to postulate the origin of the
human race in the valley of the Euphrates or Mesopotamia as the lo­
cationof the Garden of Eden, have been puzzled by the strange pres­
enceof a race, of Paleo-Alpine stock, with short, broad heads, know n
as brachycephalic. This Paleo-Alpine stock seems to have been the
forerunner of what is now known as the modern Chinese. A nd yet
thepeoples west of them are uniformly dolichocephalic, or long-head­
ed. Where could the round-headed people have come from? They
could not have sprung out of the ground. The Caspians, and most
of those Arab and Semitic races in and around M esopotamia, are
21
dolichocephalic. Skulls tell a story by their contours that is w
ell-nigh
irrefutable. On the other hand, we find plenty of brachycephalic peo.
pies throughout North and South America. What better inference
can we draw from this, than that the Lemurians were a brachycephalic
or round-headed, people who sent their colonists east and west, to
leave their crania with their identifying contours and measurements
along western America and Eastern Asia.
Drawing on our Higher Sources as we are privileged to do in these
studyings, we get information that the Lemurians were not onlya
round-headed but a high-headed people. That is, they had high fore­
heads with correspondingly weak jaws and chins, a telltale indication
to the anthropologists that they had attained to the final word incu
l­
tural development.
One of the most irrefutable evidences we have of the former existence
of a great Pacific continent, is Easter Island, 2000 miles west of th
e
South American coast. The area of this island is only about 45 square
miles, the coast now has no good natural harbor, and landing isd
iffi­
cult. The island appears to have formerly been wooded, but nowit
is merely overrun with brush. Less than a hundred natives live upon
it, although when it was discovered, it held from 2,000 to 3,000 peo­
ple. Its nearest neighbor is almost 1400 miles distant. We canw
ell
wonder how they got there. Certainly they were not created there,
as Adam is reputed to have been created in Eden. Equally certainit
appears, that 3,000 people never journeyed over 1400 miles of sea
in crude savage canoes.
The chief thing for which Easter Island is famous, however, is its
wonderful archaeological remains. Here are found immense platforms
built of huge cut stones that bespeak a high degree of skill in masonry,
and which have been fitted together without cement. They are gen­
erally built upon headlands, and on the slopes toward the sea. T
he
walls on the seaside are, in some of the platforms, nearly 30 feet high,
and from 200 to 300 feet long by about 30 feet wide. Some of the
squared stones are as much as 6 feet long.
On the land side of the platforms there is a broad terrace with large
stone pedestals upon which once stood colossal stone images carved
somewhat in the shape of the human torso. On some of the platforms
there are at least a dozen images, now thrown from their pedestals and
lying in various positions. Their usual height is from 14 to 16 feet,
but the largest are 37 feet and the smallest only 4 feet. They are
formed of a grey trachyte or volcanic rock found at the east end of
22
| the island. The top of the heads of the images is cut flat to receive
round crowns made of a reddish vesicular stuff found at a crater about
8miles distant from the quarry where the images were cut. A num ­
ber of these crowns still lie at the crater, apparently ready for re­
moval, some of the largest being at least 10 feet in diameter.
Inone part of the island are the remains of som e houses nearly 100
feetlong by 20 feet wide. They are built in courses of large flat stones
fitted together without cement, the walls being about 5 feet thick and
over 5 feet high. They are lined on the inside w ith upright slabs on
which are painted geometric figures and representations of anim als.
Theroofs are formed by placing slabs so that each course overlaps the
lowerone until the opening becom es about 5 feet w ide, w hen it is cov­
eredwith flat slabs reaching from one side to the other.
Thelava rocks near the houses are carved in resemblance of various
anim
alsand human faces, forming probably a kind of picture writing.
W
oodentablets covered with signs and pictures have also been found.
Theonly ancient implement found thus far on the island is a kind of
stone chisel, but it seems impossible that such large and numerous
w
orkscould have been executed with such a tool.
Thepresent inhabitants of Easter Island know nothing of the construc­
tionof these remarkable works, and the entire subject of their exist­
encein this small and remote island is a mystery. A mystery, that is,
tothearchaeologists who conclude such works to have been the handi­
craftof a savage or barbarous people.
Let us see in our next Lecture continuing the exploration of the
Lemurian civilization and its blending into the Atlantean, just w hat
EasterIsland was, and how it acquired these monstrous attestm ents to
ahigh degree of scientific knowledge. . . .
23
