{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n2_what_are_men_and_women.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N2 What Are Men And Women","mylang":"de"}
“What Are Men
and Women?”
BEING TH E SECOND OF
The Galahad Scripts
H E GALAHAD SC R IP T S constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric History of the Eearth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first form s of human'life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantem and Egyptian epochs into the modern \Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer of 1932 and have been recorded
and preserved in this form for students of\the Foundation Fel-
loivship. C The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of Metaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in M ortality and 1
for accurate
knowledge of the soul's enhancements in octaves higher than
msm
THE GALAHAD SCRIPTS ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS OF THE FOUNDA­
TION FELLOWSHIP BY PELLEY PUBLISHERS OF
ASHEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA : POSTOFFICE
BO X 2630 : SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE
LIBERATION SCRIPTS, ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR,3
ONE HUNDRED OF EACH TO TH E COMPLETE
COURSE TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY iy
"What Are Men and Women?"
SECOND LECTURE
EEMINGLY it is a perfectly silly question to
ask: What Are Men and Women?
A man is an adult male of the human species.
A woman is an adult female. Enhoused in
physical bodies and duly mated, they repro­
duce the human species in the form of
children. Such parents die— or rather, their
bodies die— and are buried in the ground.
After fifty to a hundred years they begin to
be forgotten by all who ever knew them. The
children become adults and have offspring in
turn. Social cycle by social cycle this sort of thing goes on. Civiliza­
tions come to flower, go into decline, and the sands of deserts cover
them. Verily it seems as though every thousand years a wholly new
order of human affairs exhibits on this planet.
For so long back into antiquity that even history has failed to record it,
these successive waves of life have appeared, reached their crests, and"
disappeared. There seems to be no practical reason for them, no lasting
results accomplished by the phenomenon of them, no purposes served
that have profitable endurance. Therefore minds that are incapable of
understanding the esoteric essence of human life, or that have taken
no care to examine into the spiritual side of man, view the whole pro­
cess as a tremendous and preposterous waste. They say that Life is a
“mystery” and let it go at that. They want to figure out everything
from the fleshly and materialistic standpoint, and anything that will not
fit the fleshly and materialistic evidence is the caprice of crack-pots.
During the past hundred years a school has arisen that expounds the
3
matter somewhat as follows: The faintest and frailest forms of Lif
that seem to exhibit self-determining consciousness are certain species
of seaweed and submarine plants, that grow from the oceans floor
attain to their growth, wrench loose from their roots, and go floating
away in sea-water as animalisms of a sort. Evidently these “evolve”
into crustaceans, or very definite forms of sea-life, so fiercely self,
aware and individualistic that they fight pitched battles amongst them­
selves for survival. Gradually such have left the ocean waters, crawled
up on the land, developed lungs for breathing air, and become what we
know as animals. Such animals, mainly fourfooted, have responded
to laws of environment and natural selection as to species and mates,
until at the apex of their development stands homo sapiens, or Man
the Walking Monkey, capable in the present years of riding in auto­
mobiles, making and being entertained by moving pictures, tuning in
on Europe by short-wave radio to hear what is being said on the other
side of the earth, and withal fighting fist-fights over whether Budweiser
is a better beer than Schlitz. Because there are these successive
forms of life in existence at any given period, and each seems to sur­
pass the other in physical or mental equipments, the conclusion is
drawn that man of today, capable of exclaiming at a sunset or writing
a sonnet, was once— far back in the so-called Dawn of Civilization
a sea-plant, then a turtle, then a flying lizard, then a chimpanzee, and
finally today a Republican elephant or a New-Deal Jackass according
as he views a very materialistic Depression.
Such, in a paragraph, is the Darwin School of Thought.
The funny part about it is, that Darwin was not responsible for it,
never argued it, and never said anything of the sort. The Darwin
School of Thought was mainly promoted by people who had not read
Darwin but gained to their notions about Evolution and Natural Selec­
tion by listening to the comment of other people—who had not read
him either 2 ? 2 ?
The thing that Darwin did was to trace the growth of biological forms
in their response to environment or orientation to it, and submit a
fairly good hypothesis that different environments back over the his­
tory of the earth have perfected different species and organisms for
facility in survival. Darwin was by no means dogmatic in his con­
clusions that one form of life came from a prior form, for that would
suppose then, that all forms came primordially from some common
form. Science says that this could not possibly have happened, be­
cause the further back we go into our study of species and forms! the
4
more remarkably individualistic each becomes.
Neither did Darwin, or any of the other great naturalists, maintain that
man descended from monkey. Darwin said very plainly that there
was a Missing Link between man and monkey that natural science has
never been able to discover. He and his fellow scientists of the mid-
Victorian period determined that there was an extraordinary similarity
between the great apes of the present and human adults of the Stone
Age. And beyond that, they did not venture.
In any event, Darwin and the naturalists interested themselves in trac­
ing the histories of biological forms only. Only Wallace seems to
have stumbled onto the secret of the matter: that perchance biological
forms and spiritual forms are separate and distinct forms, but that one
may occupy or utilize the other for certain practical purposes in earth-
life tp i *
That biological forms, however, occupied by spiritual forms, might
proceed along a line of growth and adaptation to environment that is
distinct and separated from any forms of earthly spiritual exhibitions,
is a proposition outside the domain of the natural scientist since it par­
takes of metaphysics. Therefore the question has been ignored or
sidestepped j% f
But we cannot ignore or sidestep it in this instance, if we intend to
arrive at an accurate definition of what truly is Man and what truly
is Woman.
5
HE proposition we are called to consider is this: Just be­
cause there are biological-animal forms in this very
material world, evolved through laws of adaptability to
environment and natural selection, and just because
modern Man goes about his earthly business day unto
day in a bodily organism that greatly resembles the
highest patterns of those biological-animal forms— even reproduces his
kind by the same methods practiced by animals— it may by no means
be true that men and women in their spiritual essences are highly
developed animals i?
What if men and women are of an entirely different order of creation
than anything exhibiting consciousness in this earth-world, and have
come here into this world of animals strictly as spiritual beings, to take
up residence in animal bodies for the purpose of “ knowing what it
feels like” to be an animal?
What if they have come here to acquire certain spiritual lessons which
occupancy in the bodies of animals can give them?
What if such occupancy in the bodies of animals were merely a Going
to School-—or passing through the grades or classrooms of a school—
for a vast cosmic purpose, and that in the grades or classes on ahead
there were other forms for their spirits to occupy or exercise, also to
get certain lessons?
It is an entirely new thought, of course, for the present materialistic-
minded generation to consider. But the strange part about it is, that
when we adopt it for a working hypothesis, and cast around for evi­
dence that might sustain it or clothe it, we suddenly become appalled
at what we turn up.
Furthermore, in considering history and many of the symbolic mys­
teries in the religious lore of the ancients, we come across startling
substantiations that some such hypothesis for human life was once
widely'known and accepted.
Man in his spirit was not something evolved from seaweed, nor was
he altogether native to this planet. He came to this planet in what
might best be termed Spirit Form, and discovered methods for grow­
ing and occupying physical organisms to give him material exercise in
this three-dimensional world of matter. He was never anything else
than spirit, and is spirit today.
That is to say, Man is the essence of Consciousness that in a certain
period of its unfoldment spends considerable time in this earth-world
in the body of what seems to be an animal, and when so enhoused in
6
that body— and during such period— is known as a Person, or a
“human” being. Likewise when this celestial fragment of Conscious­
ness is so enhoused, Man is identified as being a Soul.
If you glance at the first chapter of Genesis, you will see the matter set
forth thus: “ And God breathed into his nostrils the Breath of Life,
and man became a living Soul.” In other words, the Divine Breath
being projected into the mortal body which God was supposed to have
fashioned from “ dust,” forthwith produced the thing known as Soul.
So Soul, after a fashion, requires Body as one of its adjuncts quite as
much as it requires Divine Breath. By the same token, if either of
these ceased to remain in existence, or were subtracted one from the
other, Soul could be said not longer to exist, as the whole must be the
sum of all of its parts.
When we talk therefore about ‘‘Soul leaving the body” we are ap­
parently making a serious error in divine terminology. It is not Soul
that leaves the body. It is spirit, or the Divine Spark of Reasoning
Consciousness t ?
Soul, we might put it, isn’t a Thing so much as a condition of Spirit.
And the condition is the physical enhousement.
This point is important. Furthermore, we get strange confirmations
of it as we begin to explore the history, and examine the nature, of the
unique creature that lives in habitations, raises families, builds cities,
and perpetuates dynasties, in this world of the present. Of course, a
detailed consideration of it doesn’t belong strictly in a work of history
but in treatises on metaphysics.
Yet we shall discover as we go along that the metaphysical history of
man has been much more important and understandable— not to men­
tion logical— than his secular history.
By considering that Man is a fragment of celestial Consciousness that
has come to earth, and entered into earth conditions, over stated
periods for the better unfoldment of Consciousness and its powers
under the friction and obstruction of limitations, the reasons for some
of the mysterious episodes of secular history begin to make sense.
Take the item of the various types of Civilizations that have come to
flower from time to time. Seemingly there is no rhyme nor reason in
them. One dynasty has overthrown another dynasty. One form of
government has succeeded another form, sometimes in seeming cul­
tural retrograde. Great natural catastrophes have come and blotted
out whole continents in an apparent waste of human life that was
prodigious. The secular historian is at a loss to account for these hap-
7
penings. But the person who knows his Esoteric History of the earth
recognizes that these changes have all been motivated by the express
requirements of unfolding Consciousness, obtaining the experiences
that the resultant conditionings effect.
If a republic like that of Rome is overrun by seeming savage tribes
such as the Goths and Huns, and its civic culture outraged or extermi­
nated, it would seem that there has been a terrific backward movement
in ethical culture and the progress of institutions. The wise student
of Esoteric History realizes that insofar as man’s inherent Spirit was
concerned, there was a need for an alteration into a more barbaric and
primordial set of earth-conditions, that when the republic-form reap­
peared again, it would be the better valued and substantiated. So it is
too with free peoples who find themselves overrun and sold into
slavery. They have need for a sequence to serve instead of being
served. They endure the service period and after a time they reappear
in earth-life and reestablish their free institutions on a more enduring
basis igr
HERE unlearned people go askew in considering the Dar­
winian Hypothesis for man’s performance in the
physical frame, seems to be in thinking that because Man
of today bears uncanny resemblance to the bigger apes,
that there is any biological link between them, or that
back in his evolution man must have been an ape him­
self. It is natural and reasonable to jump to such conclusions, yet
always there is the item of that Missing Link— at just what point Man
ceased being ape and forthwith became human.
This Missing Link can never be located for the simple reason that it
never existed!
Animal life wore many aspects and perfected many unique forms to
withstand the strains and stresses of earth’s conditions, till finally the
ape form stood paramount above the rest— particularly in its structure
of the hand with its thumb to wield the tool. All of it was pure bio­
logical development, managed, controlled, and supervised by the Great
Vigilant Oversoul that arranges for the development of Conscious­
ness in all forms of organisms.
Man in Spirit Manifestation apparently came to this earth-planet—
after it had become inhabitable for animal forms as we shall see in
investigating planetary processes— and observed that of all forms of
animal life available for his use or copying, that of the ape seemed
8
most adroit, and capable of supplying him with the unfoldment he
sought. He therefore appropriated the ape form to his life uses on the
physical plane and proceeded to occupy it and perpetuate it as a
species
We might call it thsft he sublimated the ape form as an animal organ­
ism, by injecting his more rapidly-vibrating exhibit of Consciousness
inside it, and when he had so enhoused himself he effected the product
known as the Human. Yet strictly speaking it was not a sublimation
so much as a borrowing.
We speak today— carelessly— of the different “ races** of men. An­
thropologists and ethnologists claim that they can go back over the his­
tory of civilizations in different parts of the earth, and show conclu­
sively where the different races “ originated.** . . .
The very learned ethnologist will tell you, for instance, that the paleo-
alpine stock from which we are supposed to get all of the world’s white
races—or Aryan races— of the present, originated somewhere in the
vicinity of the northern slopes of the Tibetan mountains. He reaches
such conclusions from the fact that the skeletonized remains of very
early man can be traced as a trail across the various continents, until
the shape of exhumed white crania gives indication that it first ap­
peared on this planet in the vicinity of northern India or southeastern
China
This is terribly faulty reasoning, of course. It is much like saying that
because we find no traces of wires in very early Egypt, that therefore
the Egyptians must have had radio and wireless telegraphy.
The fact that a retrospect trail of white crania comes to a stop in
northern India or southeastern China by no means should prove that
the first white man began there. It merely proves that at such spot we
first find traces of him. He might have existed a hundred thousand
years previously in Greenland or Patagonia and dropped down into
Tibet from a balloon.
What we should truly be interested in, is what makes a white man in
the first place, why does he exhibit a skull that is different from the
brown man, the yellow man, or the negroid, and why do the various
biological forms perpetuate such distinctions generation on generation ?
IJ If we want to go back with the anthropologists and ethnologists and
examine their hypotheses, we must be willing to concede that God
must have started each race separately by making a separate Adam for
each race tp
God would thereby have had to make a white Adam , a brown Adam,
9
a yellow A dam , and a black A dam . Instead of making one man in
the Garden of Eden, the common progenitor for all the human race in
all its colors and peculiarities of temperament, H e would have had to
m ake four. G enesis says that H e did not m ake four. He made only
one. A nd whereas we should by no m eans take Genesis as any
scientific authority for w hat tacitly happened, we have the right to ask
of the Fundam entalists, just what race and color of skin the Adam of
Eden truly w as?
Science goes back, back, back, and finds that the further it travels, the
m ore individualistic does the separate race become. The Funda­
m entalist gets around the headache by taking time out and calling the
scientist bad names. The scientist pays not much attention, knowing
that Religion isn’t something to be proven, anyhow, but something to
be believed. But all the sam e, he does not sidestep his own headache.
A t just what point did the various races ST A R T , and what started
them ? i f
Secular history is tragically dumb in the matter of answering. The
records of secular history at the best do not go back more than five to
ten thousand years— granted they do go that far. Then other records
are unburied from beneath desert sands that tell of other civilizations
and dynasties going back hundreds of thousands of years. There is no
w ay to identify them because all standards have been lost by which to
m ake com parisons.
Still, that quandary of races persists.
W ho “ started off” the first white man, the first black man, and all the
other “ first m en” of the races in between? ~
HE Esoteric History of Man says that there truly is no
mystery or headache about it at all.
Different cosmic groups, attained to very distinctive un-
foldments of Consciousness in the supra-dimensions,
bring their own life-patterns into the physical world with
them. They demark their racial breeds by processes that
impose, so to speak, on the biological and render it distinctive in each
instance according as Occupying Spirit dictates.
A white man is white because he has attained to what amounts to the
White Strata in his spiritual evolutionary unfoldments. The white is
not necessarily a color when it comes to a spiritual distinction. It pro­
jects into the physical as white merely because those spirits of the white
strata are more or less at the top grade of spiritual evolution and con­
tain thereby within themselves all the intermediary colors, exactly like
the prism
There seem really to be Seven great gradations, or demarked planes,
of Spirit manifestation, and when the members of these exercise on
earth, they translate into the Seven Great Root Races which so puzzle
the historian and scientist as to their “ origins.** . . .
The trouble with the historian or scientist is, that each is seeking to get
his answer from biological phenomena alone and refusing to take
qualifying Spirit into account.
It cannot be done. Or rather, whenever it is done there results only
confusion of ideas and a cul-de-sac of reasoning. The scientist admits
that biological forms do develop distinctively, but what makes them de­
velop he prefers not to say. He is interested in the clock-works as
clock-works but denies the existence of the mainspring which makes
the clock run and tell the time accurately.
If Man is conceded to be spiritual in essence, then why should not the
occupancy of his biological body be treated strictly from the spiritual
standpoint? Why should not the effects of his spirit upon his body
be taken into account? But the biological scientist says: “ No, I can­
not prove that such happens. A t least such occupancy doesn’t seem
to follow any well-defined laws that operate similarly under similar
conditions so that they can be recognized and coded. I look about the
earth and I see the dull-witted savage, scarcely able to count beyond
the ten digits on his hands, possessing a more magnificent physical
equipment than the white man with the brain of a Kant or a Spinoza.
I see the spirit of a Steinmetz enhoused in a body that is hopelessly
crippled, and the said enhousing spirit not seeming to be able to do
11
a yellow Adam , and a black Adam . Instead of making one man in
the Garden of Eden, the common progenitor for all the human race in
all its colors and peculiarities of temperament, He would have had to
m ake four. Genesis says that He did not make four. He made only
one. A nd whereas we should by no m eans take Genesis as any
scientific authority for what tacitly happened, we have the right to ask
of the Fundam entalists, just what race and color of skin the Adam of
Eden truly w as?
Science goes back, back, back, and finds that the further it travels, the
more individualistic does the separate race become. The Funda­
m entalist gets around the headache by taking time out and calling the
scientist bad names. The scientist pays not much attention, knowing
that Religion isn’t something to be proven, anyhow, but something to
be believed. But all the sam e, he does not sidestep his own headache.
A t just what point did the various races ST A R T , and what started
them ? t ? m
Secular history is tragically dumb in the matter of answering. The
records of secular history at the best do not go back more than five to
ten thousand years— granted they do go that far. Then other records
are unburied from beneath desert sands that tell of other civilizations
and dynasties going back hundreds of thousands of years. There is no
w ay to identify them because all standards have been lost by which to
m ake com parisons.
Still, that quandary of races persists.
W ho “ started off” the first white man, the first black man, and all the
other “ first m en” of the races in between?
—that Earth Environment may possibly bestow on him. So he starts
out in roles that begin with pure savagery, or at least with barbarism,
and proceeds up through the cycles that he names Evolving Civiliza­
tions, living many lives in each and profiting from the inevitable en­
hancements that they offer to him. When he can get no further, and
there are no more profits to be assimilated, Spiritual Man graduates.
He leaves the earth-arena for all time and he never comes back.
What becomes of him, what higher evolutions he participates in, where
he goes after ceasing to be Man, are items not proper to this present in­
formation. We are mainly interested in an Esoteric History of the
Earth: in examining how his past performances have worked out,
bringing him to what we find him at this moment. We must leave it
to Esoterics and the higher phases of Transcendentalism to supply en­
lightenment on Spiritual Man’s further destiny and supra-mortal pro­
gressions J y j%f
We lay down the hypothesis, therefore, that Spiritual Man is not an
animal and never has been an animal. He is a particle or fragment
of the Great Celestial Consciousness that finds profit— in the sense of
an increasingly unfolded self-awareness— in deploying for a time in
animalistic forms or patterns, that endure for a given span of solar
years on the surface of a gigantic orb of metals and minerals swinging
about a centrosome of the sun. And to get this profit consciously and
deliberately, and to send and receive the intelligence that his mortal
situation provides for him, he calls— or has brought— into operation
three different expediences for such self-supervision: His Spirit-Soul,
his Mind, and his Brain.
Let us by no means confuse them. Each has its own identity and
function
1
3
O T H O SE who are not clear regarding the operation of
their own mental processes, I want to lay down this
sharply demarked First Principle:
W e have in our “ spiritual ensem bles’* three different de­
partments, or Phases of Mortal Activity.
W e have our Spiritual Selves that we call our Souls, our
Psyches, or that Stream of Individual Consciousness that is the im­
mortal part of ourselves, that has existed since the Beginning of all
finite things and will go on existing throughout infinity.
On the mortal side we have the human Brain, that great nerve ganglion
that ramifies throughout a hundred thousand nerve cells, directs the
muscles of the physical body, and at the sam e time receives sensitory
perceptions that are later incorporated into our psyches in terms of
remembered experiences. It is a purely physical thing and must al­
ways be regarded as such.
Now between these two there must be a connecting instrument. The
Spirit must have some sort of intermediate mechanism to exercise its
dictates on the body through the Brain.
That mechanism, a thing independent of both Spirit and Brain, affect­
ing both and in a measure partaking of the nature of both, we give the
name of Mind. Identify its activities and performances as subcon­
scious, superconscious, or foreconscious; that is beside the point of its
existence and function. Mind is the instrument of Spirit that permits
Spirit to operate on this physical plane.
And Mind gets its operation in the practical manner by motivating
and using the Great Nerve Center called Brain.
If we do not make these three distinctions at the very start of our dis­
coursing, we shall constantly find ourselves in a maze of confusions.
Your Mind, I say again, is the instrument that you employ con­
sciously or unconsciously as the case may be, to get things done by
your physical body. It also gets results for your Spirit in terms of
sense reactions, so that profit comes to you continually by undergoing
the Life-Experience.
In other words, it works two ways. Your Mind wants to give you
certain lessons that are the result of your bodily adventures in flesh.
Or rather, your Spirit says to Mind: I want the benefits from the body
performing certain acts that I may imbibe profit from the experience
which comes. Mind at once shows industry by motivating physical
brain in which it is housed, and tells it certain things which body must
perform t$f
14
Sometimes Spirit or Soul tells Mind to tell Brain to do things that are
well-nigh impossible from the physical standpoint. When that hap­
pens, Mind tries to get action that satisfies Spirit, delivering the best
results it can as though crowded from behind by a terrific force. It
tries its best to perform, and when it finds it cannot, it does the same
thing that most people do under similar pressure in society today: it
tries to do the next best thing to reach a result or arrive at a goal.
When it is absolutely impossible for the demands of Spirit to be met,
physical brain and body breaks down. We speak of this state as a
Nervous Collapse.
We saw this illustrated graphically time and time again in the late
world war
Spirit said to the soldier in the trenches: “At exactly six o’clock, the
break of dawn, the body in which I find myself housed must climb a
ladder and go out into the inferno of No Man’s Land. No matter
whether or not it is shattered or destroyed; body must do it!*’ And
what often happened? Mind wanted to obey Spirit, but it could not
get Brain and Body to concur. The soldier kept looking at his wrist
watch, waiting for the hands to reach exactly six, when suddenly brain-
cells fused. With a blood-curdling scream, the whole ensemble col­
lapsed and a raving maniac was removed to the nearest base hospital,
d That fusion of brain-cells happened because Mind was striving to
execute unreasonable demands of Spirit. Brain and body rebelled,
The mechanism, being overtaxed, gave way at its weakest point: the
delicate nerve-centers of the mortal brain.
O TH ERE are three distinctive “departments” of mental
manifestation: Spirit, the commander, that is at the same
time the recipient of the sensitory experiences under­
gone, or superinduced, by Body; Mind, the instrument
of Spirit, that performs as servant-intermediary; and
Brain, the Control-Room of physical body, that takes or­
ders from Mind when they are strictly physical of execution. And the
peculiar thing is: they are each located inside one another, in a manner
of speaking. Mind is located inside Brain, Spirit is located inside Mind,
d To be specific, Spirit seems to have its seat of consciousness within a
definite area in the Brain: the Pineal Gland.
The Pineal Gland is one of Nature’s great privacies. So long as noth­
ing materialistic touches it or penetrates it, the Spirit stays in the, hu­
man body and functions there from birth to death. You can shoot a
15
bullet through the brain. Y ou can operate on it and cut portions of it
away. But let the scalpel touch or injure the ductless Pineal Gland and
the flight of the Spirit is instantaneous.
This consciousness of self that resides in the pineal gland has no shape
and all shapes. That is why we so often go astray in trying to conceive
the perm anency of ourselves, or the survival of our identities, in terms
of bodily form. W e think that we must have human shape in order to
recognize ourselves, or effect the existence of consciousness. Nothing
of the sort.
You can get a clearer idea of what I mean when I say that conscious­
ness can exist without dependence on bodily form by imagining your­
self as going into a room that is inky dark, a room in which total ab­
sence of light m akes it impossible for you to see any part of your body.
The only w ay that you know you are in a materialistic world is be­
cause you m ay feel your heart beating and the sensation of your weight
im pressing on the floor.
Is it not true that despite all absence of bodily form as it may impinge
on your senses, you are still aware of yourself as an existing entity?
B y the sam e token you can be a million miles out in geometric space
— in utter darkness because there is no substance to obstruct and
diffuse the light of distant planets and so make that light incandescent
to your eye— and know that you are alive, very much alive, by the
sensations of realization with which your body has nothing to do^j
W hen we take this question of Holy Spirit operating or performing
in the m ortal vehicle— the mechanisms we call men and women—we
know that it is possible for the self-awareness to depart out of the
physical sheathing and operate quite as consciously and effectively as
it would operate afar in the aforementioned geometric space.
A few years ago in Belgium there were two medical men doing a
series of experiments with a psychometric boy, or a lad who could be
easily hypnotized. While in deep cataleptic trance he was able to tell
them what w as happening 500 miles distant, absolutely accurate in
every detail of event. They wanted to know how the feat was per­
formed. They decided they would photograph their subject, from the
beginning of that experiment through to its finish.
Now we find that when we take a camera with a quartz lens, or a lens
with a lead filter, that removes from natural light the same ray that
ruins your kodak film unless it is opened in the red glow of a dark
room, that we get strange results. That quartz lens or lead filter will
filter out the actinic ray and pick up manifestations of light and sub
stance that cannot be seen with the normal eye. There are people en­
dowed by nature with an iris in each eye that does this same work of
filtering, and we say they have ultra-violet sight, or sight beyond the
ultra-violet. Why all eyes are not so equipped is a mystery. When
we have persons with that type of eye, they see things that other
people cannot see, meaning forms of life generally considered as being
above the mortal. There is nothing necromantic about it, however.
They are merely seeing manifestations of matter of a higher frequency
than is admitted by those whose senses are not thus acute. All down
the ages, by the way, these forms of life have been the origin for those
supernatural displays, or evidences of life activity above the natural,
which credulous and illiterate humanity has translated as ghosts and
spooks. But to get back to the experiments with the psychometric
boy Ijr i f
He was photographed constantly from the time that he went into his
trance, his body sitting bolt upright in a chair, until the time that he
came out, with his report of what was transpiring in the place to which
the scientists directed him to go. They saw, according to their devel­
oped plates, his Light Body— or pattern-matrix— step up out of his
cataleptic physical mechanism, walk across the room away from them
and disappear through the solid wall. Meantime his body remained
rigid and upright in the chair. Finally the plates disclosed his Light
Body coming back through the wall, facing them as it came. It re­
turned to the mortal vehicle awaiting it in the chair, and sat down upon
it. Immediately his Light Body disappeared inside. He exhibited
signs of coming from his trance. Then he returned to normal and
made his report. His Light Body, housing his consciousness, had left
his mortal husk, gone to that distant place, witnessed events, and came
back to report them.
Science has therefore been able to catch this light on camera plates,
proving its literal existence. And because it took the form of the young
man, and because it was seen to leave and return, and report accurately
what was occurring at a distance, the conclusion is plain that his con­
sciousness that enabled him to remember what he had witnessed must
havebeen journeying in that Light Matrix and not in his physical brain.
§ Hundreds upon hundreds of cases are reported of people traveling
from their bodies in what amounts to self-imposed trances. They re­
turn to those bodies in due course of time without any harm resulting
toMind or bodies in the occurrence. We call it in metapsychics “ Split­
ting the Consciousness.”
1
7
discover that it remembers tormer lives that it has lived m the bodies
of men of m any different sizes, weights, and physical aspects.
B y the sam e token that it can go back one life, it can go back a dozen.
B y going back a dozen, it follows that it can go back through all the
lives that it has ever lived, back, back to the very beginning of the
functioning of its psyche.
B ack in that spiritually primordial condition, we suddenly are ap­
prised of why we are on an earthly ball spinning in infinite space,
26,000 miles in circumference, placed in an orbit in the spatial uni­
verse that is merely a geometrical assumption.
That ball came into existence for human beings to exist upon, and per­
form the grand evolution of spiritual development into complete
aw areness of its own powers, though not exactly the “ human beings”
that the average person or the theologian means when he refers to
them, not the type of mortal that merely has the physical factors and
functions common to mammalia on this plane of finite substance. I
N
we finally arrive at the first one of all. And if it is possible to precede
that one, we find that person telling us that he was previously a part
of the Almighty’s Brain. He did not begin as that thing with two arms
and two legs and a head, ordinarily considered as a mortal being. He
is back there as an integral part of the very Cosmos. I know of cases
where that experience has actually occurred, of going back into “ a
sense of God.”
If I had dared make such a statement a hundred and fifty to three
hundred years ago, I should probably have been burned at the stake—
and I am not so sure that I have not been burned at a stake for making
such enlightening statements in previous life cycles. Even today, to
tell human beings, going through all the distressing experiences of hu­
man life, that they actually are God-substance, is to have one’s state­
ments considered as a type of blasphemy.
Jesus was crucified for saying it!
Did He not assure us over and over that we are partakers of the
Father’s Holy Spirit? W hat did He mean by partakers? There is an in­
teresting and profitable result to be gained often in pulling words apart,
in getting at their true meanings by recognizing how they were first
put together. Take the word partakers as a case in point. It is a com­
bination of part and takers. It connotes takers of parts, or parts taken
from the Father’s Holy Spirit.
To consider Spirit, or Soul, as apart from physical body for a time
further, however . . .
AN Y of our leading “ mediums” often have the capacity
— or I should say ability— to vacate their mortal bodies
completely and loan the use of them to other persons
from higher dimensions, so that the psyches of those
whom humanity calls “ departed” can come into those
bodies, talk with us, tell us of the significance of .what
many of us are experiencing from their higher angle of observation.
They tell us many times what the great life processes are, because they
can observe them with their finer sensitory perceptions.
Ihave witnessed many interesting experiments with that type of Sensi­
tive. Again and again they have reported their reactions to mortal
phenomena, as they perceive its peculiarities from their conditions of
spirit. Uniformly they declare that the most interesting phase of their
perception is seeing telescopically and microscopically. They observe^
19
thereby what amounts to a wholly new world, or rather, an earth that
is scarcely recognizable as they knew it in mortality.
Many who are familiar with Prof. William T. Stead’s book, Blue
Island, recall his comment on his experiences in perceiving mortal
manifestation for the first time after “going over” . . . Being taken
by one of his friends to enter and observe an earthly seance room, he
had the strange reaction of watching mortal persons sitting in the m
idst
of what appeared to him to be a block of cold steam. He asked his
mentor what he was witnessing. His friend smiled and declared that
he was looking into a room in the Third Dimension that had become
perceptible to both of them because it was darkened and lighted merely
by a red light. In this block of cold steam his living earth-friends
appeared as animated fruit in human form encased in gelatine.
Many of those who have occupied the bodies of Vacating
Mediums, have related much corroborating testimony. I have
often asked them: “ How do we human beings, sitting around you in
this circle, appear to you from your angle of observation in the body
you are using for the moment in order to express yourself to us)
Invariably they answer: “We are seeing you, not only as a complete
collection of all the etheric factors that make up the field of force which
you call your bodies, but we are able to see you through the atomic
interstices. That is, we can observe the stupendous amount of space
that exists in your bodies, between the protons and electrons.”
Professor Eddington gives us an illuminating explanation of what is
meant by this in his book: “ The Nature of the Physical World."
Among other interpretations of cosmic physics, he makes this
exposition:—
“ Remember that your bodies are not things; your bodies are condi­
tions of' energy in the ether. They are made up of trillions of electric
granules, so-called, which are units of positive electricity forming a
core for the granule, around which are spinning at an incredible rate
other units of negative electricity called electrons.
“ All the universe of matter is built up on the same immutable prin­
ciple that we discern in the movement of the planets around the suns.
So the electron-planets revolve about the proton-sun.
“ In the case of the electric granule, the numbers of positive cores sui-
rounded by the combinations and speeds of electrons, produce the dif­
ferent grades and qualities of materials. But as in the case of th
e
planet revolving around the sun in its orbit, so too are there orbits foi
these electrons
20
“Now then, it is a physical fact that if you could remove all the space
that exists in the trillions of orbits of the electrons flying about the
protons in a human body of 150 pounds weight, you wouldn’t have
enough solid energy-matter to do much more than cover the head of
an ordinary common pin!”
You can see how our friends might get the same effect on their senses
in the higher frequencies of matter, that is, viewing us as containing
these vast areas of space, when we look at a newspaper halftone.
Viewed at arm’s length it make sa picture of proper lights and shades.
But bring it close to your eyes, or view, it through a reading glass, and
youperceive that it is made of an infinite number of very fine dots with
great areas of white newsprint space between each one.
SHALL never forget what an impression Prof. Edding­
ton’s description of protons and electrons made upon me
when I first found it in his book. I could readily grant
that as a physicist his exposition was a correct one.
But what startled me was the realization that caught in
the spaces of this vast field of force was a Something that
was me—a stream of consciousness that could somehow exert a con­
trolling influence on all those free atoms, molecules, and electric
granules, as well as get reactions through the senses, perform reason­
ing, and be cognizant of the fact that it had an individuality separate
and different from all other streams of consciousness operating in
similar energy-fields.
It brought me to a realization that I must have a soul that is something
separate and distinct from the body itself, and this being so, it followed
that it was quite plausible that such a soul was imperishable, that it
could likewise perform outside of this field of force that was my body.
<| Be that as it may, the reports of such “discarnate” souls as come into
thephysical vehicles of Vacating Mediums in regard to seeing life dif­
ferently than we see it while circumscribed by the limitations of our
own, furnish an interesting commentary on the Higher Perceptions
which we likewise acquire in our between-life intervals.
There truly is nothing miraculous or marvelous about all this. It is
only that our clumsy physical senses cannot do the same thing that
makes them seem so. They are operating on a frequency in matter
that will not let them perform beyond a certain rate of vibration. To
get the limitation, or the discipline that derives from it, is exactly the
reasonwhy we come upon this mortal plane. There is really nothing
2
1
There is nothing about it that should make us resent it. We learn
definite things from such circumscriptions.
These people who resent either the earth-state or the possibilities in
having to return to it again and again until they absorb the benefits
from such disciplining, present an ignorant attitude toward life in con­
sidering the earth as an unpleasant location.
W hat difference can location in interstellar space possibly make-^-
whether we are upon this earth planet or any other? All is reality, all
is sense-perception, in some degree or other. All the planets are made
of the sam e ingredients and factors. It is the condition that you as an
experimenting, experiencing soul are after, not an occupation of any
given place. That condition is what we are getting here on earth, and
w hat Holy Spirit wanted us to have. We can only get this Discipline
of Confinement between certain limits of physical circumscription.
Rem em ber that Finiteness does not necessarily mean physical mor­
tality, or location in this particular world of materials. It means all the
grades and shades of experiencing in Form that come to us so long as
w e are deficient in Cosmic Consciousness. It is Cosmic Consciousness
we are evolving toward. And Cosmic Consciousness means the ability
to live in Pure Consciousness without the necessity for finite instru­
m ents to express it to ourselves.
Y ou think you have ideas. Where did you get those ideas? You got
them from a source that was not finite or limited, and yet those ideas
were first postulated so that you could conceive them by being ex­
pressed in some kind of Form in Finiteness.
Thinking is thinking and has little to do with the world of matter ex­
cepting as the world of matter makes the object of thinking intelligible
in term s of form. Thinking itself is exploring what seems at the mo­
m ent to be unknown and finding that it is knowable.
M any people think that thinking is just pensive imagining, or the asso­
ciation of ideas that come from a form of dreaming in finite images.
But thinking is more than that. We must go deeply into what thinking
is, because it forms the basis of all the things you want to know about,
and as you want to know them— that is, the form in which you want
to know them. It means not manufacturing but receiving out of the
universal that which is in the universal for your particular mental use
at any given time.
Let us conceive what I am trying to express by using this analogy: All
the radio music that is being broadcast in the entire United States is
playing in your home at this moment. All we need to do to prove itis
22
to bring in a receiving set, put up our antenna, and tune into the par­
ticular wave-length that renders it audible. By the same token we can
put it that all the intelligence, all the wisdom, all the erudition, every­
thing there is to know that exists in the universe— that is, the sum-
total of Holy Spirit— is right here in this room. Just as -we
may get radio music in the deepest coal-mine or up in the loftiest
airplane, so can we find universal consciousness everywhere, waiting
for us to tune in upon it-^-because consciousness is a condition and not
a location. Our minds are naught but transcendent radio receiving
sets to tune into such material playing throughout all space as we may
wish to receive and thus enhance our spiritual awareness.
VER and over our mentors emphasize one thing: that
in the performance of all natural wonders, including the
creation of the materials that are in our bodies or in the
finite universe about us, Consciousness first exists and
all forms of materials result in consequence of it. ^[Con­
sciousness is not a thing that “comes into” the physical
brain, or that which is projected by the physical brain. Consciousness
is the force which first creates the physical brain. In otherwords, con­
sciousness comes first and the brain, made of chemical materials, comes
afterward. Consciousness creates all that is.
When you “tune in“ to the Universal Consciousness which originally
projected the finite worlds into being, or when you reach up inspira­
tionally, or consciously, you do take out of that Universal what you
want to know. You call such performance “ logicizing.** You do it
when you want “ mental power** to accomplish a given piece of work.
That does not alter the fact that Consciousness has created the vehicle
through which it continues to find expression finitely.
This type of activity is particularly potent in sleep.
How often we hear someone say: “ I had a certain problem to solve
last evening. I went to bed thinking about it. On awaking this morn­
ing I found I had my answer to it.**
Such a person has done what? Merely performed consciously on re­
tiring and the thinking has turned subconscious in nature. That is,
the subconscious has opened instinctively or automatically when all
bodily sensation has ceased and taken out of the great reservoir of
consciousness that which was particularly wanted in the way of
necessary information.
