{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n16_what_sinking_of_atlantis_meant_to_man.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N16 What Sinking Of Atlantis Meant To Man","mylang":"de"}
W hat th e Sinking of
A tlantis M eant to Man
B E IN G T H E S IX T E E N T H O F
The Galahad Lectures
H E G A LA H A D LE C T U R E S constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric H istory of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first form s of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian w orld with its strange civilisations, and through the
Atlantem and E gyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scrip ts com prise the Instructionrgiven as part of the
Lecture C ourses o f G alahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N . C ., in the sum m er of 1932 and have been recorded
and preserved in this form fo r students o f the Foundation Fel­
lowship. C F ^ e Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly o f M etaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundam entals behind life in M ortality and for accurate
knowledge o f the souT s enhancem ents in octaves higher than
those o f earth.
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BY PFJ J EY
PUBLISHERS OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA POST OFFICE BOX 2630
SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE LIBERATION
SCRIPTS 1 * ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR ±jr ONE
HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE IN­
STRUCTION TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY jy
What the Sinking of Atlantis Meant to Man
T H E SIX T E E N T H LEC TU R E
H E A V E R A G E person born into mortal life
and com ing into a consciousness of the civili­
zation he finds around him, is prone to think
that the culture he enjoys is a natural hap­
pening. He accepts subconsciously that the
phases of mundane existence that go to make
up his world were created pretty much as he
finds them. He forgets that civilization and
all that it comprises, are an inheritance. He
scarcely realizes that the commonest forms of
natural life m ay be the completed evolution
of processes with which Nature in the raw has had little to do. The
average person is usually astounded when informed of the factors in
life, even its flora and fauna, that were not put upon earth in the state
inwhich he now confronts them.
Despite the fact that this is rapidly becoming a motorized age, I think
the statement will stand that every student of this instruction has seen
a horse. A horse is accepted as a horse. It is acknowledged to be a
magnificent draft anim al, adm irably constructed anatomically for the
service of man. The horse either carries man on his broad back as a
rider, or he strains his im m ense bulk against the collar of his harness
and pulls a load. H e is recognized because of his size, the average
equine specimen standing about five feet ten inches in height and
weighing anywhere from 800 to 1,500 pounds. But not one person
in a thousand is aw are that the horse as originally created, that is, as
Nature projected him onto this primordial planet, was a creature no
bigger than a fox and as agile as our common deer.
JAN » • «
D arw in thought that N ature herself brought about our loyal com­
panion, the dog. A ll through natural history the implication is made
that the w hole gam u t o f dom esticated animals has resulted from
natural breeding or natural selection on the part of species. Propin­
quity w ith m an w hile this evolution w as in progress, softened the dis­
positions or ch an ged the tem peram ents of these animals. They be­
cam e reconciled to their statu s as m an ’s servants so long as he cared
for their physical w an ts an d show ed superior intelligence in training
them .
B u t the honest biologist know s that there are many holes in this com­
m only accepted theory. H e know s that there is scarcely a so-called
tam e species that h as not undergone a long and artificially selective
process o f evolution ary breeding under human, intelligent direction,
and infinite am ou n ts o f tim e to bring such drastic alterations in ana­
tom ical structure. D ocility o f tem peram ent w as and is a secondary
consideration.
T becom es apparent, the deeper we probe into the sub­
ject, that as w e have graded types of cultures or civiliza­
tions, so w e find the dom estic anim als in various stages
o f developm ent below their present status of usefulness
to m ankind. O ur culture, and our civilization, includ­
ing the achievem ents in perfecting the flora and fauna
of our present era as w e find them , w ere not manufactured in their
present aspects and m erely handed to us on a golden salver. Over
untold ages and countless generations m an has taken the first forms
o f plant and anim al life as they confronted him and remodeled and
im proved upon them to serve his business or convenience. And that
span o f tim e m ust have been far longer, and covered greater areas of
the earth, than those indicated by m odern histories as between the
close o f the last glacial period and the daw n of civilization in Egypt.
O ne hundred thousand to three hundred thousand years of the most
advanced form s o f scientific and ethical culture m ust have been neces­
sary, to give us the food plants an d the draft anim als that serve us
today. A n d this could not have occurred in and around the Mediter­
ranean B asin , altogether, because the strata in and around the Mediter­
ranean B asin do not disclose an y rem nants or relics of the great in­
term ediate developm ent period.
There is an interesting anecdote to the effect that the great feline
form s, such as the lion and the tiger, are today but specimens of a
4
•es of interrupted experimental forms upon which man was work-
togeta draft animal when the Atlantean catastrophe over-
him. Beginning with the small wildcat, with which man had al-
jy experimented in his own right as a physical form for himself be-
foreheadopted the ape form consistently, man was patiently building
tinphysical size and subduing its ferocious nature to obtain a draft
^jmal of tremendous strength combined with uncanny agility. The
horseas such, was far too clumsy. The lion in an utterly domesticat-
gdstatewould have all of the horse’s strength but a speed and mobility
th
at the horse could never attain. The cataclysm intervened, how­
ler, before this great experiment was perfected over a sufficient num­
ber of generations to give the feline the present docile temperament
ofthe equine. All of us are familiar with the fact that even in the
tim
e of the Caesars, lions were brought from Nubia, successfully
tam
ed, and trained to pull chariots in many of the Roman triumphs,
lions even today are not unsusceptible to training, as we know well
enough from circus performances. The cataclysm, however, seems
tohave freed this tremendous species to run wild over certain con­
tinentsand revert to Nature, its ferocity restored and its great strength
an
dagility a curse to humankind instead of a domestic enhancement.
OW proofs seem to be abundant that this great period of
domestication of the animals which serve us today,
flourished and knew its prime when allocation of the
continents of the earth was totally different from what
we recognize it to be at present. The domestication of
the various animals undoubtedly began far back in
Lem
uria, stretched across South and Central America, improved on
itself in Atlantis, and gave increment from its experimentings to the
A
dite and Egyptian civilizations, out of which we begin to pick the
fragm
ents of written history. A writer in the Westminster Review
asfarback as January, 1872, called attention to this in the following
paragraph: i f
"W
henthe animals and plants of the Old and New Worlds are com­
pared, one cannot but be struck by their identities; all or nearly all
belon
gto the same genera, while many, even of the species, are com­
m
o
ntoboth continents. This is most important in its bearing on our
th
eory, as indicating that they radiated from a common center, after
th
eGlacial Period. The hairy mammoth, wooly-haired rhinoceros,
th
eIrish elk, the musk-ox, the reindeer, the glutton, the lemming,
5
m ore or less accom panied the flora incident to both continents, and
their rem ains are alw ays found in the post-glacial deposits of Europe
as low dow n as the south of France, in the New World, beds of the
sam e age contain sim ilar remains, indicating that they came froma
com m on center and were spread out over both continents alike.”
D onnelly s a y s : Recent discoveries in the fossil beds of the Bad Lands
of N ebraska prove that the horse originated in America. Professor
M arsh, of Y ale College, has identified the several preceding form
s
from w hich it w as developed, rising, in the course of ages, from a I
creature not larger than a fox until by successive steps it developed I
into the equine anim al which we know today.
H ow did the wild horse pass from America to Europe and Asia if there
had not been continuous and comparatively easy communication be- I
tw een the tw o continents?
T h e fossil rem ains of the camel are found in India, Africa, South 1
A m erica, and in K ansas. The existing alpacas and llamas of South I
A m erica are but varieties of the camel family. The cave bear, whose I
rem ains are found associated with the bones and works of man inthe I
cav es o f Europe, w as identical with the grizzly bear of our own Rocky I
M ountains. T he m usk-ox, whose relics are found in the same de­
posits, now roam s the wilds of arctic North America. The gluttonof
northern Europe in the Stone A ge is identical with the wolverine of
the U nited States. According to Rutimeyer, the ancient bison of
E u rope w as identical with the existing American buffalo. Every stage
betw een the ancient cave bison and the European aurochs can be
traced. T h e N orw ay elk, now nearly extinct, is identical with the
A m erican m oose. The lagom ys or tailless hare of the European caves,
is now found in the colder regions of North America. The reindeer,
w hich once occupied Europe as far south as France, was the same as
the reindeer o f A m erica. Rem ains of the cave lion of Europe, a larger
beast than the largest of the existing species, have been found at
N atchez, M ississippi. The European cave wolf was identical with
the A m erican w olf.
D onnelly goes on to say with still greater significance: Cattle were
dom esticated am ong the people of Switzerland during the earliest part
o f the Ston e A ge, or at legist before the Bronze Age or Age of Iron.
D arw in attests to this in his A nim als Under Domestication. Even at
that rem ote period they had already, by long-continued selection, beer
developed out o f the wild form s akin to the American buffalo. M
G ervais, the French authority, concludes that the wild species fron
6
^hich our domestic sheep was derived, is now extinct. The remains
0f domestic sheep are found in the debris of the Swiss lake-dwellings
0f the Stone Age. The domestic horse, ass, hog, and goat, also date
back to a similar great antiquity. We have historical records 7,000
years old, and during that time no like domestication of a wild animal
has been made.
HIS last fact speaks volumes as to the vast periods of
time during which man must have lived in a civilized
state to effect the domestication of so many and such
useful animals. And when we turn from the fauna to
the flora, we find the same state of affairs.
An examination of the fossil beds of Switzerland of the
M
ioceneAge reveals the remains of more than eight hundred different
species of flower bearing plants, besides mosses and ferns. The total
num
ber of fossil plants catalogued from those beds, cryptogamous as
w
ellas phaenogamous, is upwards of three thousand.
Themajority of these species have migrated to America!
H
ow
? It is foolish to think that men of one continent freighted seeds,
shrubs or bulbs across three thousand miles of ocean in such great
quantities as to transfer those species in a wild state and spread them
over mountain and plain for other thousands of miles. Quite as ab­
surdas to state that both originated in their wild state on two con­
tinents simultaneously, when they are found on two continents in
form
s that indicate a state of artificial horticulture.
T
herewere other species of plants that passed into Asia, Africa, and
evenAustralia. But the American types are in the largest proportion.^
Counterparts of the flora of the Miocene Age in Europe now grow
inthe forests of Virginia, North and South Carolina, and Florida.
Theyinclude such familiar examples as magnolias, tulip trees, ever­
greens, oaks, maples, plane trees, robinas, and sequoias. It would
seemtobe impossible that these trees could have migrated from Switz­
erland to America unless there was unbroken land communication
betw
een the two continents. It is a still more remarkable fact that
acomparison of the flora of the Old World and of the New goes to
showthat not only was there communication by land, over which the
plantsof one continent could extend to.the other, but that man must
h
ave existed and helped this transmigration in the case of certain
plants that were incapable of making the journey unaided.
F
orinstance, the banana is seedless. It is found throughout tropical
7
Asia and Africa. The celebrated Professor Kuntze asks: “In wua
way was this plant, which cannot stand a voyage through the tern
perate zone, carried to Am erica?” And yet it was generally cultivated
in Am erica before 1492. Professor Kuntze goes on to say: “It mU
st
be remembered that the plantain is a tree-like, herbaceous plant, po3
.
sessing no easily transportable bulbs like the potato or the dahlia, nor
is it propagable by cuttings, like the willow or the poplar. It has only
a perennial root which once planted needs hardly any care, and yet
produces the most abundant crop of any known tropical plant.” He
then proceeds to discuss how it could have passed from Asia and
Africa to America. He admits that the roots must have been trans­
ported from one country to another, by civilized men. He argues
that it could not have crossed the Pacific from Asia to America be­
cause the Pacific is nearly three to four times as wide as the Atlantic.
It could not have come over the vaunted trafficj-congested Aleutian
land-bridge because the roots could not have remained alive in that
arctic climate.
The only way he can account for the presence of the banana plant
in America is to suppose that it was carried there when the North
Pole had a tropical climate. Is there any proof that civilized man ex­
isted at the North Pole when it possessed the climate of Africa?
Is it not more reasonable to suppose that the banana was cultivated
by the people of Lemuria as well as Atlantis, and carried by the civ­
ilized agricultural colonies of each to both east and west? Do we not
find a confirmation of this view in the fact alluded to by Professor
Kuntze in these words: “A cultivated plant which does not possess
seeds must have been under culture for a very long period. We have
not in Europe a single conclusively and exclusively seedless, berryr
bearing, cultivated plant. Hence it is perfectly logical to infer that
these plants were cultivated as early as the beginning of the middle
of the Diluvial Period.”
Is it possible that a plant of this kind could have been cultivated for
this immense period of time in both Asia and America? Where are
the two nations, agricultural and highly civilized, on those continents
by whom it was so cultivated? Where are the traces of their civiliza­
tions? What has become of them? All the civilizations of Europe,
Asia and Africa radiated from the Mediterranean. The Hindu-
Aryans advanced from the northwest. They were kindred to the
Persians, who were next-door neighbors to the Arabians or cousins
to the Phoenicians, and who lived alongside of the Egyptians who
»jn turn derived their culture from the Phoenicians, or Adites. It
be a marvel of marvels if one nation, on one continent, had
Itivated the banana for such a vast period that it became entirely
Adless, the nation retaining a peaceful, continuous, agricultural civ-
lization during all that time. But to suppose that two nations could
havecultivated the same plant, under the same circumstances, on two
different continents for the same unparalleled lapse of time, is sup­
posing an impossibility.
find just such a civilization as was necessary, according to Plato,
and under just such a climate, in Atlantis and nowhere else. We have
found it reaching, by its contiguous islands, within one hundred and
fifty miles of the coast of Europe on the one side, and almost touching
the West Indian Islands on the other, while by its connecting ridges
it bound together Africa and Brazil.
ND as it was with the banana, so was it with the taro,
the Spanish or red pepper, the tomato, the bamboo, the
guava, and the mango fruit, all found in Africa, in
South and Central America, and in the islands of the
South Seas. The American origin of tobacco is similarly
denied, as with the maize and the coconut. The culti­
vation of the cotton plant and the manufacture of its product were
know
n to both the Old World and the New. Herodotus described
itin450 B.C. as the Tree of India that bore a fleece more beautiful
thanthat of sheep. Columbus found the natives of the West Indies
usingcotton cloth. It was also found in Mexico and Peru.
Itis a significant fact that the cotton plant has been found growing
w
ildin many parts of America, but never in the Old World. This
w
ould seem to indicate that the plant was a native of America, and
th
is is somewhat confirmed by the superiority of American cotton,
an
dbythe fact that the plants taken from America to India constantly
degenerate while those brought from India to America as constantly
im
prove, t?
There is a question whether the potato, maize and tobacco were not
cultivated in China ages before Columbus discovered America. Trav­
elers in China before the revolution left this record: “ The interior
of China along the course of the Yang-tse-Kiang, is a land full of
w
onders. In one place piscicultural nurseries line the banks for near­
lyfiftymiles. All sorts of inventions, the cotton gin included, claimed
b
yEuropeans and Americans, are to be found there forty centuries
9
old. Plants yielding drugs of great value, the familiar tobacco and
potato, maize, white and yellow corn, and other plants believed tobe
indigenous to America, have been cultivated there from time im
memorial.” t p
Is this in its turn not confirmation that the Chinese, as early Lemur-
ians, found the origin of these items far back in the long-lost civiliza­
tion of the Pacific continent from which they migrated, bringing w
ith
them their horticultural heritage?
Consider briefly one of the philological proofs of a common origin of
these achievements. The word maize, or Indian corn, is derived from
mahiz or mahis, the name of the plant in the language of the island of
Haiti since long before the time of Columbus. And yet, strange to
say, in the Lettic and Livonian languages in the north of Europe,
mayse signifies bread. In Irish, maise is food. In the old High Ger­
man, maz is meat. May not likewise the Spanish maiz have ante­
dated the time of Columbus and borne testimony to early intercom­
munication between the people of the Old and New Worlds?
N the Stone Age of Europe, five varieties of wheat and
three of barley were cultivated. Darwin says that it
may be inferred from the presence in the lake habita­
tions of Switzerland of a variety of wheat known as the
Egyptian Wheat, and from the nature of the weeds that
grew among their crops, “that the lake inhabitants either
kept up commercial intercourse with some southern people, or had
originally proceeded as colonists from the south.” Why not say rath­
er that they were colonists from the land where the wheat and barley
were first domesticated, to wit, Atlantis ? And when the Bronze Age
came, we find oats and rye making their appearance with the weapons
of bronze, together with a peculiar kind of pea. Darwin concludes
that wheat, barley, rye and oats were either descended from ten to
fifteen distinct species, most of which are now unknown or extinct,
or from four to eight species closely resembling our present forms,
or so widely different as to escape identification. In which latter case
he says: “Man must have cultivated the cereals at an enormously
remote period, and at that time practised some degree of selection.”
Rawlinson in his Ancient Monarchies expresses the opinion that the
ancient Assyrians possessed the pineapple. “The representation on
the monuments is so exact that I can scarcely doubt the pineapple be­
ing intended.” Now the pineapple is supposed to be of American
10
jgjn, and unknown to Europe before the time of Columbus.
[tj$not even certain that the use of tobacco was not known to the col-
n
j8
ts from Atlantis who settled in Ireland in an age long prior to Sir
falter Raleigh. Great numbers of pipes have been found in the raths
tumuli of Ireland, which there is every reason to believe were
placedthere by men of the prehistoric period. The Danes entered Ire-
lan
dmany centuries before the time of Columbus, and if the pipes
^ere theirs, they must have used tobacco, or some substitute for it,
atthat early period. It is probable, however, that the tumuli of Ire­
lan
dantedate the Danes by thousands of years.
Portuguese travelers have found the most remote tribes of savage
Negroes in Africa, holding no commercial intercourse with Europeans,
using strangely shaped pipes in which they smoked a plant of the
country. Investigations in America have led to the conclusion that
tobacco was first burnt as an incense to the gods, the priest alone using
the pipe. From this beginning the extraordinary practice spread to
the people and thence over all the world. It may have crossed the
A
tlantic in a remote age and have subsequently disappeared with the
failure of the retrograde colonists to raise the tobacco plant.
f IS such evidence that confronts us when we come to
consider what the sinking of Atlantis, not to mention
Lemuria, meant to man throughout the earth. The
motherlands in which such perfections were arrived at,
were ruthlessly destroyed and dropped to the bottom of
the mighty Oceans. But here and there throughout the
earth
, toboth east and west, the vestiges of those attainments remain
an
denable us to approximate in logic and imagination what those
an
cien
t Lemurian and Atlantean civilizations must have comprised.
O
farchitecture and the arts, we will have more to say in future
treatises. Jfc*
M
an
yof us wonder about the physical features of Lemuria and At­
lan
tis, what their peoples were like, how they dressed, what they ate,
w
h
attheir religions and social customs may have been. It is a bit dis­
concerting to find evidences of the same flora and fauna, exactly the
sam
eterraindistinctions although with different geographical outlines,
th
atgoto make up the present continents of the Western Hemisphere
com
prising the features of those ancient countries. Perhaps it takes
aw
ayabit of romance to find on those continents the same races we
E
n
donearth today, black, yellow, red, white. It jolts us, however,
11
to find that they had most of the accoutrements of civilization whitk
we imagine we of today enjoy for the first time in the world's history’
ar*d that in many aspects their scientific and esoteric progress was hr
in advance of our own. 1 have hinted at this before and shall delineate
what I mean in the ensuing lectures.
If you w ould have the Lem urian or Atlantean civilizations recon*
structed dram atically, however, according to social customs, religions,
dress and distinguishing racial peculiarities, it is only fair to ask first,
‘W hat period do you w ant to know about?" Remember that there
are plenty of indications that the Atlantean civilization existed over a
span of 300,000 years and perhaps longer. We have in America a
country that boasts of a high degree of so-called civilization, yet the
continent itself has not yet been known 300 years to modem man,
and our United States in particular is not yet 200 years old. In those
200 years our m anners, custom s, styles of dress, and racial aspects,
have altered four or five times, so that visitors from another planet,
visiting here at the different periods, might be led to swear that a dif­
ferent country had been visited each time. The Pilgrim Fathers rep­
resented one epoch, and they were Americans. The Colonials of
Franklin’s and W ashington’s time represented another epoch, and
they were A m ericans. Our people of the Civil War period were just
as much Am ericans as the people of these turbulent times of 1939.
C[ If such com plete changes in the outward aspects of life, distinguish­
ing this race, could occur in a little less than 200 years, how much
m ore m arked would be the changes of 300,000 years. No people
stands still in its cultural development. No people adheres generation
after generation to the sam e dress and customs. Even language does
not rem ain constant. Then again, there are differences of culture
due to differences in geographical location or sections. By the same
token that the life of New England is different from the life of New
M exico, even in the present era, so that a planetary visitor would
scarcely know he w as in the country that included both of them, so
various sections of Atlantis partook of sectional distinguishments.
Therefore when I ask you "W hat particular time in Atlantean history
do you w ant to know ab o u t?" and you answer me, "Oh, any period
that would be particularly A tlantean," I must submit that I would be
under the sam e handicap that I would be if I asked you what particular
period in Am erican history you wanted to know about and you an­
swered, "O h, any period that would be particularly American." Just
what period would be typically American ?
12
r
ONSIDER the item of dress for instance. Since 1840 we
have had three distinct eras of fashions here in these
United States. If a man or woman had walked down
the streets in the G ay Nineties dressed in the fashions
of 1861, he or she would have caused a sensation. If
a man or woman walked down our streets today dressed
inthe fashions of the Gay Nineties, everyone would turn and look
fora placard on the back of the promenader to see what film was be­
ingadvertised and at what theater.
To pick out one man of one period as representative of Lemuria or
Atlantis, therefore, is quite as fallacious as picking out one American
without.giving the period, and quite as unsatisfactory as representing
the Lemurians or Atlanteans as a whole. We can only judge the
whole people, therefore, by their accomplishments culturally as we
see the effects of their culture distributed over the globe. Deep, deep
down in the subconscious storehouses of our minds, all of us have
dimrecollections of those far-off days, for we are the reincarnated
souls of those long-perished peoples, and we lived not a whole lot un­
like the way we are living today. Going back into the Lemurian
or the Atlantean country is not like going to a new planet. The same
features of terrain existed then that exist now, the same types of
men and women, the same aspects of vegetation growing from the
soil, the same trees making bowers of summery vistas, and the races
of mankind exhibiting themselves with identically the same traits that
we see exhibiting in human life of the present.
Yousay, perhaps, “Then what is the good of reading about them, or
w
hat is the good of studying them, if they were like the culture-prod­
uctswesee about us today?** My answer is, “ By reading about them,
orstudying them, we get the proper perspective on ourselves and the
significance of where we are heading and what our goals may again
becom
e. We learn where our customs and manners originated. And
w
e debunk many of the social and religious sanctimonies that are
subverting our lives and thought of the present, so that we can again
reasonand behave from fundamentals of Truth and not from inhibi­
tions fostered on us by priestcrafts and racial megalomaniacs that are
m
aking spiritual cynics and moral bankrupts out of us by false doc­
trine.” ip ip
13
E know that there w as a Lemuria. We have evidence
of its existence not only in recollections of the actual
language hut in social and religious customs and litera­
ture perpetuated both east and west, in East Africa and
A sia on the one hand and in South and Central America
on the other. W e have such monuments as Easter
Island in the Pacific, and the splendid white races, called Polynesians,
existent on scattered isolated islands of the south Pacific, to furnish
concrete suggestions of a civilization that must have antedated At­
lantis because of the concretions of culture and scientific progress that
evince them selves the farther we go eastward. We know that the
great straits and canals of Titicaca on the former western shore of the
A m azonian Sea were not constructed as barge canals for hollow-tree
canoes of savages to pass from one sea to the other. We know, too,
that there w as an Atlantis because of deep-sea explorations revealing
to us that the contour of the Atlantic’s bed had to be formed above
water, not in the subm erged condition in which we find it at present.
Furthermore, deep down under the surface strata of the exposed por­
tions of land, along Long Island, on the west, and the Azores and
Spain on the east, we unearth and expose coins, potteries, and im­
plements of civilization which have no known counterpart in any
other nation or race existing on the earth at present, or which has ex­
isted within the historic period of modern man.
The true w ay to arrive at the identification of a civilization is to first
allocate your continent by determining its colonial boundaries, so to
speak. All civilizations of cultured peoples radiate those cultures so
long as there are no natural barriers that are insurmountable. We find
this exemplified in Europe and A sia, and even in parts of Africa, at
the present time. Culture is not a thing of political boundaries. Where
we have a strong, gracious civilization, instigated by great wits who
have incarnated therein to contribute to the advancement of a people
or a continent of peoples, that civilization permeates and influences all
the minor civilizations about it. This w as true in the Phoenician and
Egyptian civilizations. It w as certainly true of the Grecian and Ro­
man. They gave a different ethical aspect to the entire world as they
came to flower and before each declined or degenerated. Granted
that Rom e spread hers by military conquest, nevertheless the military
is often the advance guard of the cultural.
So when we find in the so-called Old W orld, that is, in the region
of the Mediterranean, exactly the sam e customs, languages, relijous
Lservances, and mythologies, that are found in Central America and
Nforth and South America, it is only divine logic to reason that they
c0U
ldnot have been possible unless they had radiated from a common
tource or been carried from a common starting-point. By examining
these and comparing them for analogies, it is not much labor to re­
buildor reconstruct that from which all those cultures and observances
andliteratures originated.
|f the British Isles were to drop out of sight under the waters of the
Atlantic tomorrow, as the geological record declares that they have
done something like eight times, it would be only a handful of gen­
erations before we would find the public in other parts of the world
dedaring that it was debatable whether islands belonging to the
m
ythical British had ever existed. People forget things easily. The
great volcanic eruption that buried Pompeii and Herculaneum hap­
penedin one day and night. People ran east and west to escape the
horrors of that awful catastrophe. Yet within 200 years, the sites
ofthose cities, so buried under lava ash and scoria, were not only un­
know
n but mankind of the ensuing centuries seriously doubted that
anysuch cities had ever existed. Seventeen hundred years went by.
Thosecities were re-determined by an Italian peasant digging a well.
T
hebottomof his well broke through the roof of an ancient Pompeiian
house. The Italian government proceeded to investigate and then
toexcavate.
W
ithtens of thousands of tons of ash and scoria cleared away,
Pom
peii and Herculaneum came to the light of day again. Now
w
ecanwalk down the streets of those cities and see where the wheels
chipped the stones of the chariot tracks over twenty centuries ago,
anorder of Roman living in minutest aspects that has long since
passedinto dust elsewhere. For seventeen hundred years, I say, peo­
p
lewere prepared to believe that Pompeii and Herculaneum were
m
ythical cities. Is it to be wondered at, then, that a vast ocean con­
tin
en
t, distinguished from all other continents in that it had naviga­
b
lerivers on all four of its coasts, was suddenly submerged by a titanic
earthquake and cataclysm, and was soon forgotten except in folklore
an
dlegend? The great earthquake of Lisbon, at the mouth of the
Tagus River, that destroyed 60,000 people in six minutes, without
asinglebody ever being seen or recovered, is a prototype on a smaller
scaleof the Atlantean catastrophe. So we are going to assume that
su
cha continent did exist, admitting the imponderable perhaps to ar­
riv
eat the ponderable, to account for the strange distribution of one
15
culture over all parts of the world whose shores are washed by the
waters of the Atlantic Ocean.
I might add that natural history furnishes us with some enigmatic
examples of evidence worth accrediting, that such a continent existed,
if we make this admission of the imponderable in order to arrive at
the ponderable. W hat of the Gulf Stream? How account for that
strange hooked river in the waters of the Atlantic, coming up from
the south Atlantic and Caribbean, swinging around from the Amer­
ican shore to the tip of Greenland and down by the British Isles, giving
the latter their present habitable climate? Is it not reasonable to
conclude that the Gulf Stream gets its shape or course from the fact
that it once flowed completely around the island continent of Atlantis,
and w as formed by that island continent as its vortex? The island
continent disappeared from view, but that did not stop the Gulf
Stream from maintaining its course over the centuries as though At­
lantis were still above the waters. The submarine contours rem
ain,
€[ Students of natural history too are perplexed by certain “suicide
m igrations” among the birds and animals. There is a species of
Scandinavian crane that instead of migrating southward like other
birds, sets off westward every year, flies far, far out over the north
Atlantic until its wings become exhausted and it drops to its deathin
the briny billows. There is also a species of rodent from the sam
e
country that makes a periodic migration by swimming, only to ex­
haust itself and drown. What are these cranes and rodents doing,
in setting forth on such lethal expeditions, unless they are expecting
to reach a mid-Atlantic country that is in their group-soul memories
but has physically ceased to exist?
16
HE SINKING of Atlantis meant more to man, however,
ftrr . P\S ^ an 1°8S 80 muc^ land from the surface of the
wra] KL planet which he could inhabit, or the disappearance of
an island continent where climatic conditions were more
favorable to the growth of a great civilization than any­
where else on the earth. It meant the disappearance
0fthe idea of centralized racial influence and domination. And that
^as of no small importance. Let us see what this means.
There was a peculiar condition maintaining on the island continent
0f Atlantis that has never had its equal throughout the world since,
h
u
t which has had its effect in influencing, directing and altering
periodically the distribution and interrelations of races as we find
them today. Atlantis was unique, and must always be unique, be­
causeitwas an island continent that existed in the center of the world.
Thinkof a great plat of land, three thousand miles long, one to two
thousand miles north and south, with a high range of mountains pro­
tecting its alluvial plain on the north like a vast wall, shutting out
arctic winds and weather, its area placed so strategically that it could
radiate its culture in all directions and reach all peoples in all parts
of theworld without serious obstruction from strange land barriers or
im
passable waters, and you get a picture of a terrain condition that
cannever occur again unless that same land should suddenly reap­
pear. A country level and luxuriant, closed off from rigorous weather
from the north while at the same time getting the warming breezes
from thegulf stream flowing up from the south, with one notably high
m
ountainalmost in its center, and four rivers watering it north, south,
eastand west, all of them navigable, offers a phenomenon in nature
peculiarlyadapted to the civilization which patently matured upon it.
([W
henyou visit a great cosmopolitan center in which the city fathers
h
avesaid in laying it out, “ We will have our metropolis radiate from
am
unicipal hub; we will give our city a heart that shall be the munic­
ip
al and business center, with residential sections built away from
th
athub like the spokes of a wheel,** that city immediately makes a
distin
ct impression on you. And whenever you have visited or en­
countered a city, either in America or abroad, without that topog­
raph
y, with no vestige of the wheel idea apparent, it has become more
o
rless of a hodgepodge of stone, brick, and wooden structures, that
latergives you a difficult time to recall. Have you ever stopped to
askyourself why this should be so ? What are people getting at, out
°f their racial memories, when they say, “ Let us have our public
17
buildings in the center of our city, and then let us radiate our u I
politan activities out from that center, to our residential distrio K I
its outskirts, thus imparting a certain character to our communit ?
W hat is it that leaves such an impression on our minds, givingf I
tinction and individuality to the social center so planned?
Great Atlantis as a nation in itself, and the great capital of AtU^
in the center of that vast alluvial plain that distinguished Atlanta
was originally patterned in that manner. The wheel idea of muniei^
planning is a present-day inheritance from Atlantis, and the dieting
tion derived by such a pattern is but a pleasing recollection of a tim
e
when the earth was governed from a common center laid out inth*
orderly and significant fashion.
England as an island empire is easy of governing for a similar reason,
compared to political territories in Europe, Asia, or America. Tb*
little empire, with its heart in London, is so projected geographically I
that her peoples cannot press very far in any of the four direction!
without encountering water, making an almost impassable barrier. By
the same token Japan was able to seal herself up and remain a herm
it
kingdom for generations, perfectly governed and sufficient unto h
er*
self. But what a difference in political jurisdiction and allocation
of races and interests, presents itself when we view the other countricj
of the world, in Europe and America and most notably Asia. They
become simply a great sprawling hodgepodge of peoples, confusedin
their customs as well as in their languages and ideas, with nothing
but hypothetical land-lines to demarcate them one from the other.
That means farewell to any sort of political or racial unity.
Again I say, taking America as an apt illustration, what has N
ew
England in common with Virginia or Florida, or the people of south­
ern California with those of northern Wisconsin? I am telling yoo
that a people imbibe their culture, or at least have it influenced, by
features of the natural world, the peculiarities of terrain, the chem
ical
ingredients of the soil that give the constituents to the flora and fauna
indigenous to their locality; and so long as those differences exist an
d
affect humankind, the latter will break up into sectional cultures of
their own with an inherent animosity against all others who are com
­
pelled to manifest differently.
One of the chief troubles of the world today is that it has no com
m
on
center. The races of the earth are independent nationals, all clawing
at one another’s eyes and throats, saying vociferously: “We are tbe
people; God loves us better than He does you, in our social practices,
16
in
our ethical and political lives.’* The world has been chopped up
plats, into hundred-mile or ten-hundred-mile faults, exactly as the
'°rain has been chopped up, and it has brought a totally different
^t/chology *° peoples compelled to live under this hodgepodge
pay1
'1
arra*
There
ngement. j%f
was a time when this was not so !
OU recall that in your Bibles there is the legend of the
Tower of Babel. Fundamentalists think that a certain
race of people who conceived overwell of themselves,
one day got delusions of grandeur and said, “ Let us
build ourselves an elevation upon which we can feel
nearer to God than those upon whom we shall thereby
be able to look down.” They imagine that when the erection of such
a colossal structure was started, an anthropomorphic God suddenly
glanced down and shouted in protest: ‘‘W ait a minute, you! You
can tcome up here where I am, by any such strategy as that. I won’t
stand for it. You might get into heaven without dying, or you might
stand on that structure when completed and snitch some of the secrets
of the celestial universe.” And He dispatched a battalion of angels
to knock it over, confusing men’s speech so that they couldn’t agree
on howto reconstruct it.
Is it not less adolescent to concede that there was a time when an
island continent of tremendous area existed in the center of the ex­
posedland surface of the globe; when its people dwelt in reasonable
am
itytogether because it was ruled by a priestly class that w as truly
priestlyand maintained its regality by the exercise of psychic powers
th
atcould not be challenged or undermined ? These people spoke one
language, allowing for dialects that would naturally occur; they at­
tain
ed to a high, high state of civilization that up to that time had
n
ever been attained because the spiral of evolution is ever upward,
ever expansive. But suddenly a catastrophe w as visited upon their
hom
eland. The tower of their cultural achievement had its base
knocked from under it and the continent went beneath the billows
ofthedeep. Eastward into the Mediterranean basin, northeastward
u
pintoPiet Land, or Ireland and Britain, westward to M aya, or south-
w
estw
ardto what is now South America, went the remnants of those
w
h
ohad originally constituted a powerful and united people. The
h
u
bwas knocked out of the wheel and the vestiges of the rim and
splinters of its spokes were all that remained around the rugged cir-
19
cumference. Far separated from one another, not knowing that the
others had been preserved, influenced by the peculiar terrain in vrhi4
they had been stranded, they did learn to babble as to tongue. And
as they learned to babble different tongues, and became altered intheir
physical aspects because of different climates and foods coincidental
in their several habitats, they also learned to fight one another, dis­
puted over their customs and religions, and generally accepted that
they were aliens and enemies to one another. They no longer had a
center of culture and government to hold them together, to unite them
by a common interest. They were detached wanderers on the face of
the earth.
That central authority w as taken from them for a purpose, however.
AN had come to a point in his spiritual development
where it was necessary for him to learn tolerance and
leniency toward his neighbors, regardless of the kind
of food they ate, the color of their skins, or how they
worshiped God. He had to learn to function as a social
unit by his own right and by his own election. He must
be that unit unto himself, sufficient unto his own spirit wherever he
might find himself detached, not controlled or directed by a hierarchy
of superm en sitting in the center of the exposed land area of the globe
and ordering the culture of existing peoples.
Bear in mind that we are those Atlanteans! We went through that
period of having an orderly civilization, governed at its geographical
heart by a caste of avatars; we knew that culture; we had that ex­
perience ; we closed that cycle. The catastrophe came. Our tongues
were confused for a very good reason. Races were dispersed over
the face of the globe thereafter, to “ find themselves” as units that
should contact one another, or impinge on one another, and leam
to control their antagonism s, for the learning of a mighty lesson.
The Tow er of Babel story has a significance far beyond what little
people conceive who see only the anthropomorphic, literal God, di­
recting the destinies of favored peoples, or indulging in personal fitsof
spleenish jealousy. Since we have referred to this question of
tongues, let us dwell for a moment on the philology of some of the
w ords that com e from the Atlantean as found in the remnants of the
various languages north, east, south, west.
T he dictionary will tell you that the Atlantic Ocean was named after
the A tlas M ountains, which are located in northwest Africa. But
20
, Jid the Atlas Mountains get their name ? The word Atlas and
tic have no satisfactory etymology in any language to the east
ocean. We find them so named in modern times, but we do
0 find the r00*8 the wor<^ any known language of the world
» the Basque. And the Basques in the Spanish Pyrenees are
^ vmto he a racial enigma, analogous to no known peoples about
ulm And ye* a Basque anc^a Cree Indian of North America can
®Jcrstand each other’s speech perfectly, and both can understand
Jf speech of the modern esoteric scholar who through processes of
i atan ignorant, orthodox world calls mysticism, has had his memory
liftedso that he can speak fluently the Lemurian or the Atlantean
iogue. A*
pu
tw
hen we get into Central America, particularly among the Na-
h
u
atls, we find immediately the root meaning of the term Atl, which
jjgniiies water, war, and the Top of the World. Let us hook this up
iv
iththe great Atlantean civilization. From it comes a whole series
o
fw
ords, Atlan, meaning “on the border of the water,'* Atlaca, mean­
in
g"to come back,” or “ to be in agony,” likewise “ to hurl abross
th
ewater.” There is a city named Atlan in Central America that
wasin existence when Columbus discovered the W est Indies.
Y
e
tw
ehave the well known narrative of Plato attesting that the Atlas
M
ountains, and the Atlantic Ocean, were named after Atlas, the
G
reekgod that upheld the world on his shoulders. Where did the
p
eo
p
leof the Old World get this conception? Is it not true that it
m
u
st have come from a geographic fact ? Atl-as was a term being
u
se
donone side of the water, the eastern side, hundreds of years be­
fo
reth
eSpaniards made the discovery that Atl-an was also being em­
p
lo
y
edon the other side, the western. Did not the Great Atlantis at
o
n
etim
e bear the weight of the world’s society as it was then com­
poun
ded? ip ip
B
u
tAtlantis perished, and has stayed perished to this day. Its sinking
m
e
an
ttoman that he must thenceforth adjust himself to a disordered
stateof society throughout the earth, that he might, of his own voli­
tio
nandspiritual attainments, perfect his own order out of disorder,
d
e
v
o
idofany instructions or super-controlling attributes of his avatar-
k
in
g
lyline. And that is what he has been doing and is doing at the
p
re
se
n
tmoment. It is as though the great family of peoples had been
ad
d
ressedby a Mighty Parent who said: “ I have now, for thousands
o
fgenerations, kept order in this family, shown you how to get along
am
o
n
gyourselves, given you a spiritual lesson by concrete exhibition.
21
You have com e up as children reared in such an orderly family. Hence-
forth you m ust go out into the world and learn to get up your ow
n
households wherever you m ay find yourselves or deliberately locate.
A nd there you m ust learn to make your own order. I have shown
you that it can be done. But. lest you weaken and come running
hom ew ard, declaring the lesson is too bitter for you and the task
too hard, I am going to destroy the old home place and make you stay
perm anently where you should stay.”
A tlantis w ent down, leaving her culture spilled in a hundred direc­
tions, in a thousand places, am ong ten thousand tribes of offspring.
A nd until m an learns this lesson from her sinking, and adopts the cul­
ture and order that characterized her in her prime, he is going to know
penury and w oe, and childishly upbraid the Great Parent for not
coddling him with a better patronage as to living conditions or oppor­
tunities for w resting his living from nature with less effort than h
e
finds necessary at present.
W ith this thought in mind, and with such a background of scientific
fact painted in, let us see in our ensuing lectures what the culture w
as
which w e once experienced as Atlanteans, and which we must bring
back and exercise again on earth before we can say that we have suc­
cessfully learned the lessons of mortality.
