{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1842__engledue___cerebral_physiology.pdf","mytitle":"Cerebral Physiology","mylang":"de"}
PricB Foitrpence.
CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY
AND
MATERIALISM,
WITH TRE RESULT OF THJ: APPLICATION OJ' ANIMAL
MAGNETISM TO TRB CEREBRAL ORGANS.
AN ADDRESS
Deli11e>·ed to the Phrenologi.~al Association in London,
J uue 20, 18-12.
BY W. C. ENGLEDUE, M.D.
WITH
A LETTER FROM DR. ELLIOTSON;
011 Mesmeric Phrenology and Mat~lism.
Y.onlJon:
J. WATSON, 5, PAUL'S ALLEY, PATERNOSTER ROW;
Sold by Hetherinl{ton, 13 & 14, Wine-Office Court, Fleet Street;
Cleave, 1, Shoe Lane, Fleet Btreet-J. Sharp, 47, Tabernacle
Walk, Finsbury-Purkess, Old ComptonStreet-Clements, Little
PulteneyStreet--Heywood, Manche•ter-Guest, BullStreet; and
J. Taylor, 29, Smallbrook Street, Birmingham-Smith, Notting-
ham-Stewart, Whitechapel, Liverpool-Barnes, High Street;
Paton and Love,lO, Nelson Street, Glasgow.:...W.& H. Robinson.
Edinburgh-O'Brien Abbey Stre.et, Dublin--<111d all Bool<oellen.
1843.
o . ·edbvGoogle
LIST Of' B 00 K S,
SOLD WHOLESALE AND RETAIL BY
J. W AT S 0 N, 5, P A U L' S A L L E Y,
Opposiu tlae Chapter Coffe. HtrUse, one ®or from PaUrnoster JIPrt.
s. d.
Just Published, in Two Volumes, neat cloth boards and lette1-ed,
price Six Shillings and Sixpence, the Fourth Edition of
AN ENQUIRY concerning POLITICAL JUSTICE, and its In·
ftuence on Morals and Happiness. By William.Godwin.
To be had in 11 Parts at Sixpence each, or In 33 Nos. at Twopence.
Poems by Robert Nicoll, with an interesting Sketch of his
Life, I vol•• ••...•.••.. , • , • •. . . . . •. . . . . •. •. •. •• . . •• •• 6 0
Mirabaud's System of Nature, 2 vols. cloth bds. and lettered 7 6
To be had in Parts at Sixpence and in Numbers at Twopence.
Discussion on the Existence of God and the Authenticity of
the Bible, between Origen Bacbeler and Robert Dall!
Ow!'n, 1 vol. cloth boards and lettered.. •. •• •. •••• •••• •. 4 II
Discussion on the Autheaticity of the Bible, between 0.
Bacbeler and R. D. Owen, 1 vol. cloth boards, lettered. •• 3 2
Ditto, in a wrapper , •.••••.•••••••••• , ••• , ••• , • 2 8
Discussion on the Existence of God, between 0. Bacheler
and R. D. Owen, 1 vol. cloth boarda and lettered...... •• 1 10
Ditto, In a wrapper •• • •••••••••• •••• •••••••••• •• 1 4
To be had also in Eight Parts, at Sixpence each, or In
Twenty-four Numbers, at Twopence each.
Volney's Ruins of Empires and Law of Nature; 1 vol. cloth
boards and lettered, with Three Engravings ••• •••• •••••• 3 0
To be had in Parts at Sixpence, and In Nos. at Twopence.
Volney's Lectures on History, cloth boards , , ••••••••••••• 1 6
1 0
Ditto, In a wrapper••••••••••••••••.•.•••.••••••
\'olney's Law of Nature ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Sketch of the Life of Volney ••••••••••••• , , ••• •· ••••••••
Miss Wright's Popular Lectures, 1 vol. cloth boards and
0 "
0 2
lettered. ••••. •••••• •••••• •••••••• •••• •••••••• •• •• •••• 3 o
To be had In Parts at Sixpence each, or In Numbers at Two-
pence each. ·
Miss Wright's Few Days In Athens, cloth boards and letteted 1 II
• Ditto, In a wrapper••••• , •••••••••••••••••••••• ~ 1 o
Miss Wright's Fables..... •••• •••••••• •• •••• ••. . . ••••• •• o 3
Essays on the Formation and Publication of Opinions, 1 vol.
cloth boards and lettered •• . • •. •• •••• •••• •••• •••••• •••• 3 o
PAINE'S WORKS.
Paine's Theological Works, 1 vol. cloth boards and lettered.
To be had in Numbers at Twopence each, and In Parts at
Sixpence each.
Paine's Political Works, vol. 1, cloth boards and lettered•••
Ditto, vol. 2. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •• .. .. .. .. .. .. • .. ..
To~ had mseparate pamphlm,ufollow•-
Palne's American Crisis, in a wrapper.................. ..
- - Rights of Man, ditto .......................... ..
--- Common Sense, ditto .......................... ..
--Letter to the Abbe Raynal, ditto ................ ..
- - Letters to the Citizens of the United States of
3 0
3 0
3 0
1 6
1 3
0 6
0 6
America, ~itto.,... .... .. .. •.. .. .. .. .. ••.. .. .. .. • .. .. 0 4
- - Pubbc Good, d•tto. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •. .. .. .. .. .. .. 0 4
- - Decline and Fall of the English System 6f Finance.. 0 3
- - Agrarian Justice, ditto............. . .. .. .. •. . . .. o 2
Dissertation on First Principles of Government, ditto o 2
o; '" byGoogle
CEREBR.AL PHYSIOLOGY
.UID
MATERIALIS~f,
WITH THE RESULT OF THE Al!'PLICATION OF ANUIAL lL\.GNETISM TO
THE CEREBRAL ORGANS.
AN ADDRESS
Delivered to the Phrenological Association in London, June 20, 1842.
:BY W. C. ENGLEDUE, M.D.
WITH
A LEITER FRO~ DR. ELLIOTSON,
011 Mesmeric Phrenol~gy and llfateria!ism.
1!:onbon:
J. WATSON, 5, PAUL'S ALLEY, l·ATERNOSTER ROW.
1842.
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
PREFACE.
SINCE the publication of this Address in the Medical
'l'imes, several correspondents have requested me to pub-
lish it in a separate form. At the meeting of the Phre-
nological Association, the avowal of Materialism-the
inevitable inference from the facts of Cerebral Physiology
-excited considerable hostility. 'l'his spirit of antagonism
prompts me to yield to the wishes of my friends.
A writer cf talent, speaking of "Phrenologists," states,
in a communication to me, "the mass either cannot follow
out the consequences of their own doctrine, or they have
not the honesty or the courage to avow them."
'l'his is the fact, however unpalatable the announce-
ment. The doctrine as promulgated in the following
pages, I leave to the consideration of those who acknow-
ledge that "honesty is the best policy," and who act on
the principle that it is always expedient to sreak the
Truth.
SOUTHSEA, SEPTEMBER l, 1842.
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
AN ADDRESS, &c.
•1!1·. President, and Members of the Phrenological Association,- ·
Having been requested to deliver the Address at this Anniver-
sary Meeting of our Association, I must be permitted to make one
preliminary remark; it is this,-that all Cerebral Physiologists
do not entertain similar opinions; consequently the doctrines
advanced in this Address must not be received as the expressed
opinions of our body, but rather as the doctrines conscientiously.
believed-deliberately and determinately promulgated on this
occasion, by a section of our body. In the consideration of a
subject bearing essentially on the advancement of our race, uni-
formity of thought is to be desired ; but uniformity of thought is
only to be obtained by the establishment of true principles.
Influenced by this conviction I shall wander from the monotonous
routine so long followed, and insist on the importance of the
future exposition of our principles being preceded by the incul-
cation of materialism. This is not done with any sectarianising
spirit, but with the hope of seeing all influenced by one power-
the most powerful of all powers-Truth.
If we survey the characteristics of our age, amongst the most
important and striking is the tendency to form societies and asso-
ciations. For the development of every branch of literature, aP.d
every department of physical science, an association is formed;
and men seem to be impelled by one most obvious truth, that
"union is strength." From this concentration of intellectual
energy we every day witness astounding results. The victories
-which have been gained over inorganic matter-the stupendous
revolutions which science has achieved-it is our duty to imitate
by unceasing efforts to explore one portion of organised tissue.
This is to be accomplished by the collection of facts ; by the expe-
rience and efforts of numbers ; and, for the more extensive di~­
aemination of our views, and the more easy collection and
generalization of our facts, we have formed ourselves into this
Association. But why does not this Association of naturalists
form a branch or·that association claiming for its title the desig-
nation of British ? Because it has been declared, that the man
who attempts to introduce within its precincts discussions, having
for their object the investigation of living matter, is an enemy to
the success of this National Union. The members confine them-
selves to the investigation of inanimate matter-th~y s"arch into,
with the most scrupulous exactness, intricate questions iu the·
physical sciences--they spend their thousands in the collection
of' information essential to the assistance of mnn in the battle h&
is fighting with the elements; but man himself-the most intri·
cate piece of organism-the most astounding result •>f nature'~
" 2
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
4
efforts-the very topmost link in that chain of life spread daily
before us-the vitalised lump of clay wearing the human form-
claims not a· moment's consideration.
We must work out this problem; and in our researcheswe are
not to discourse concerning essences, spirits, or the immaterial
mind, but concerning one of the innumerable modifications of
matter; we have to investigate one portion of man's organism-
brain, and we have to determine its peculiar functions. Having
taken this preliminary step-understanding now what man really
is-we have to apply this knowledge; a process which will effect
great changes. Nevertheless, we must perform this duty apart
from every other consideration, apart from received opinions and
doctrines, and undeterred by the weight and number of antique
theories.
The accumulation offacts would be perfectly useless if allowed
to continue a chaotic mass, without arrangement, classification,
and generalization. Facts form the basement-strncture of our
system of philosophy. But the period is come when we must
cease speaking· of our facts only, the constant inculcation of
which was necessary during the first promulgation of our views ;
it is now our duly to apply them, to build up a system, and then
make it bear on specific points. The value of the marble is not
known, and its beauty is not seen, whilst it lies concealed in the
quarry, untouched by the chisel of the sculptor; so, in like
manner, the applicability, the great power and tendency of our
principles and conclusions are unseen, and their vast importance
unrecognised, whilst they are allowed to remain in their present
}'osition, and not made to exert their influence on questions bear•
mg most powerfully on man's progression. In pursuing this
course, we must expect difficulties ; and we must remember, that
in the majority of instances we ha-ve to deal with untrained intel·
lect, and consequently with the &laves of prejudice-we have to
fight with those who are still influenced by the impre.tsionB com
municated during infancy. Some from sloth, and others from a
deficiency of moral courage, are deterred from examining the
views and doctrines they embrace, and thus prolong their infancy
to the tomb. Can we wonder at the opposition offered by such
characters ? Can we be surprised if they denounce physiological
investigations as evil and unwise speculations? Why are the
results of inductive research evil and unwise ? Because such con-
clusions overthrow preconceived fancies and opinions, and bid the
offspring of the imagination give way to a candid and scientific
appeal to man's reasoning faculties. Since we address ourselves
to the intellect, we ought not to consider the prejudices of the'
multitude. We have all sinned in this particular: we have all
been too anxious to make our views dovetail with the views and
opinions now current in society. No Cerebral Physiologistshould
do this. By this title, we mean the individual who is conversant
with the cerebral organism of man and the lower animals-we
mean the l'hilosopher, and not the empiric-the physiolc.gical
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
5
mvestigator, who, after deducing certain principles for his guidance,
boldlr follows them out, and fears not the result, howsoever it
may mterfere with received opinions and established dogmas.
We are perfectly aware that the views \Vhich such considerations
open up are new and startling,-but they are true. The promul·
galion of these views may produce inconvenience to some, and
uneasiness to others; but no considerations of this kind can offer
any good reasons for their suppression. Are we to sacrifice what
we believe to be truth at the shrine of expediency? Is ultimate
good to be lost sight of? Are we to be the butterflies of a day ?
Is unalloyed selfishness to be our ruling passion? Are we to em·
ploy ourselves in pandering to the taste, fancies, and prejudices
of our own generation ? Are antique theories and visionary specu-
lations of more importance than laws deduced from a careful
consideration of man's nature?
We should cease to endeavour to reconcile our views with any
particular kind of doctrine, because it is dishonest; and should
boldly assert what we consider truth, regardless of the effect. We
dislike all attempts at mutilation. Let truth be the idol of our
reverence. No real good has ever been effected by stifling truth,
but immeasurahle mischief has always resulted from the promul-
gation of error. It is truth which makes free-and the continued
promulgation of truth is the only way to ensure perfect freedom.
If ever there was a period in the history of our race when it was
pre-eminently necessary to possess correct principles for our gui-
dance, such is the present. Ancient history traces the outlines of
a mass of preponderating animalism. Modem history tracks ou~
the course, and records the struggle of intellect escaping from
bondage.
We have .now presented to our view a period when men have
commenced to look beyond the mist which has so long enveloped
them and retarded their progress-a period when "humanity is
leaping from her bed of apathy "-a period when the masses are
breaking loose from their thraldom and beginning to understand
their true position-when new and untried principles and powers
are at work-when efforts are making by all parties to furnish the
means of improvement, to sow those germs which, when rooted
and grown up, must of necessity bring about a social revolution.
It must be apparent to all, even to the most common observer,
that these are not common times ; a great change is in progress,
and men are beginning to act on principles more accurate and
more enlightened. Butstill the style of thought is more becoming
to the period of immature life than that of vigorous maahood.
Men still require to be educated in a system of philosophy which
will point out the necessity of discarding completely those narrow
and limited views which have so long harassed and perplexed
them. Such a system of philosophy is ours. All other studies
are insiguificant when compared with this-the study of ml\n.
With this key what bright prospects open! Who can predict the
effect when man's capabilities shall be dra"1l forth-when his
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
6
happine>s shall bear some relation to his power of attaining it?
As yet we scarcely know these capabillties; as yet we are only
on the threshold of investigation; as yet we have done little more
.than act the part of pioneers; we have opened the shaft, disco-
.vered the mine; but the amount oftreasure cannot be estimated.
.NeYertheless, we are justified in suggesting as probable what we
cannot predict with certainty.
Glance for a moment at the achievements of some of our modern
philosophers! How have these victories been gained ? They have
.resulted from superior organum-from trained organism. If this
.be true-and who can doubt it ?-consider the thousands, nay,
millions, that are allowed to live, grow up to maturity, shrivel
and die at an advanced age, enveloped in their native nist, without
,an attempt to train, without an effort to afford the natural stimulus
to their famishing organs. Is this right? Is this state of moral
.and intellectual abortion to continue ? No ! The multitude must
be roused from their lethargy-they must be taught to think and
judge for themselves-to put forth their giant power, the most
distinguishing characteristic of their species.
Look at the cerebral mass of a great character, and witness the
'astounding results of its action ! Think of the cerebral mass of
tlw famishing millions, and estimate, if you can, the results which
might be obtained if each brain were trained, if each individual
.were placed in that situation and calling which nature intended•
.Estimate, if you can, after the lapse of a few generations, the
acquirements, the position, the intellectual and moral grandeur
·of such a race. If, then, we have even now but a faint idea of
·.man's endowments-if they are now comparatively unknown and
unexplon•d-if we are, after a lapse of so many ages, only com•
mencing the study, what better guarantee can we haTe of the
fact that humanity must advance,-that, as years roll on, and one
.generation succeeds another, man will gradnally remove all im.
pediments to his happiness, and assume that position his organism
.fits him for ? Our race is in a traiiBition.ltate; but the course is
onward, and the boldest and most enthusiastic thinker does not
possess data by which he ca.n predict the attainments of a.ny
given period : this is a secret, a germ in the womb of Time, to be
cYolved by ma.n himself: his destiny is to grow in the proportion
he ascertains and obeys the Ia.ws governing his structure. Ex-
tra,·agant and speculative as it may appear, we triumph in the
idea of such an approaching consummation. We hold no dis·
piriting views-we look on man as only just emerging from a
degraded position,.although the impression which a retrospect of
his past existence conveys is humiliating in the extreme. We
augur more favourably for his future progress, a.nd dare picture
in the distance his future destiny.
Twelve months have elapsed since we were assembled in t.liis
room for the purpose of promulgating views considered to be of
essential importance to the well-being of our species. How have
we spent the intervening period ? What mtans have we taken
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
7
to ensure their reception ? 'Vhat steps shall we take to incul-
cate the necessity of educating the rising generation in our
system of philosophy ? What is the cause of so much doubt
concerning a question so important, so self-evident ? What pre
vents its reception ?
It appears to us, that the very first axiom of our science is
erroneous. " The brain is the organ of the mind."
Mr. Combe states-" We do not in this life know mind as one
entity and body as another, but we are acquainted only with the
compound existence of mind and body, which act constantly to-
gether, and arc so intimately connected, that every state of the
mind involves a corresponding state of certain c01'poreal orgaiiB,
and every state of these 01'gans involves a certain condition of the
mind."
A similar doctrine we shall find inculcated by almost all writers
on Cerebral Physiology.
This is mere assumption. We boast that our science is purely
inductive, and yet in the enumeration of QUr axioms we assume
a position which all our facts tend to disprove. To evade the
charge of materialism, we content ourselves with stating that the
immaterial makes usc of the material to show forth its powers.
What is the result of this? We have the man of theory and be-
liever in spiritualism, quarrelling with the man of fact and sup-
porter of materialism. We have two parties: the one asserting
that man possesses a Bpirit superadded to, but not inherent in brain
-added to it, yet having no necessary conncxion with it-pro-
ducing material changes, yet immaterial-destitute of any of the
known properties of matter-in fact, an immaterial something,
which in one word means nothing, producing all the Cerebral
functions of man, yet not localised, not susceptible of proof; the
other party contending that the belief in spiritualism fetters and
ties down physiological investigation-that man's intellect is
prostrated by the domination of metaphysical speculation-that
we have no evidence of the existence of an essence, and that
organised matter is all that is requisite to produce the multi-
tudinous manifestations of Human and Brute Cerebration.
We rank ourselves with the second party, and conceive that we
must cease speaking of " the mind," and discontinue enlisting in
our investigations a spiritual essence, the existence of which can-
not be proved, but which tends to mystify and perplex a question
sufficiently clear if we confine ourselves to the consideration of
organised matter-its forms-its changes-and its aberratioDII
from normal structure.
Almost all physiologists commence thei.r investigations with an
unfavourable bias. How is this ? Because they first adopt an
hypothesis, and then commence their investigations ; instead of
first taking a wide and extended view of Human and Comparative
Physiology, apart from preconceived opinions: because in their
wancy they were taught that man's position depended on the
possession of some essence ; and in their manhood, that intellect.
8
-which should investigate the ground for such a belief, is "cabin'd,
cribb'd, confin'd," by the apparent necessity for such a specula·
tion. Is it necessary to prove this ? Consult physiological writers,
and we find that they are perfectly satisfied that the seatof men-
tal operations is the brain, and no other organ ; yet they contend
that nothing more has been proved than this,-that the brain by
its peculiar organism is the instrument by which the mind acts.
They introduce us to a phantom, they call forth a spirit, and,
without the shadow of a proof, state that it guards, governs, and
directs material movements.
lYe ;;antend that mind hcu but an imaginary uiltence-that we
have to consider matter only.
What is organised matter ? Merely a collection of atoms, pos-
sessing certain properties and assuming different and determinate
forms. What is Brain ? Merely one variety of organised matter.
What do we mean by Cerebration ? The function of the brain
-one of the manifestations of animal life, resulting from a pecu-
liar combination of matter. The varied changes of form which
this matter assumes, give rise to the numerous manifestations of
Cerebration in the different tribes of beings ; and the varied
changes of Cerebration in the s!lme being originate in molecular
alterations-merely other expressions of a new condition.
Cerebration, then, expresses the manifestation of a series of
actions resulting from the properties possessed by a particular
portion of organism-brain, when acted upon by appropriate
powers. In the same way as organism generally has the power
of manifesting, when the necessary stimuli are applied, the phe·
nomena which we designate by the term life-so, one individual
portion-brain, having peculiar and distinct properties, manifests
on the application of its appropriate stimuli, a peculiar and dis-
tinct species of action, which we propose to call Cerebration. If
the aum of all the bodily functions-life be not an entity, ho\V
can the product of the action of one portion, of the body-brain
be an entity ? Feeling and intelligence are butfractionalportion1
of life.
The "why or how" such a form of matter is capable of mani-
festing such peculiar functions we cannot explain ; it is sufficient
for our purpose to decide that it does so, and perhaps we may
never go further. Does any one doubt the power of matter to
produce the phenomena of thought and feeling ? To such a one
we would say who dares assign limits to the inherent power& of
matter ? J.et us first find out all that matter can do, before we
dogmatize and assert what it cannot do.
No action can go on in an organ, that is to say, no manifesta-
tion of the function of an organ, without a change in the organic
molecules composing it. This position was beautifully verified
in the case related by Mr. Combe, where, the skull-cap having
been removed by an accident and the brain exposed, he was
enabled by conversation to excite particular faculties, and he
r.oticed that the manifestation was always accomptWicd by a
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
9
peculiar movement in the portion of brain constituting the cere-
bral organ. We are at present quite incapable of ascertainillg
by what means impressions made on the organs of the senses are
conveyed to the brain, or how the val'ious stimuli emanating from
the brain, are conveyed to the several organs. This is most
probably by a change in the molecular arrangement, as rapid as
galvanic action, and perhaps more so. However, we know as
little about this as we do of the nature of light, galvanism, or
electricity.
In au organ whose function is to secrete a fluid, we are per·
fectly aware that the fluid may be vitiated and altered by a very
slight change in tho ultimate structure ; and at first the change is
not appredable by our senses. If abnormal function continue, it
is the result of absolute organic disease ; that is to say, there is
au alteration in the arrangement of particles quite incompatible
with healthy action. In like manner, an alteration of cerebral
structure is always the cause of abnormal cerebration. We see
no better reason for supposing that the manifestation of cerebra-
tion depends on the excitation of o:erebral matter by "an essence"
-"a principle"-" the mind" than we do that the bile or the
saliva are secreted by their respective glands, through the instru-
mentality of the same or some other essence. We do not speak
of liver principle or salivary principle. We see a certain ar-
rangement of particles in the form of an organ called liver, and
a certain kind of blood sent to it; the result is, the secretion of
a particular fluid, which we call bile ; further than this we cannot
go : no other organ is so organised-no other organ produces "
similar secretion.
\Ve see that certain articles of food conveyed to the stomach
excite it to the performance of its function-Digestion. The ex-
ternal senses receive impressions and convey them to the brain,
and excite it to the performancll of its functions-Cerebration.
As the perfect perforn1ance of1ligestion depends on the healthy
state of its organ-Stomach; so the perfect performance of cere-
bration depends on the healthy condition of its organ-Brain.
It may be said that these views partake of the grossness of
materialism-I have yet to learn that there is grossne11 in truth :
that they tend to shock harmless prejudices,-I have yet to learn
that a prejudice can be harmless ; that they will produce a revc,·
lution in prevailing modes of thought, and overthrow received
doctrines and acknowledged principles,-Bc it so. If principles,
doctrines, and orthodox formulro for thought, are erroneous, and
render men purblind-stoccp them away. Fear not truth-disdain
not reason-follow not authority-let opinions be sustained by
the firmness and solidity or their bases.
But some one remarks, this is not the doctrine of Gall. Where
are there ten Cerebral Physiologists who have studied his writings?
It is little to our credit thnt we are not more intimately acquainted
with him-more influenced by his boldness-more anxious to
profit by his researches-more ready to adopt the same truth-
10
Joying course of inquiry. But this is Gall's doctrine. How
miserably have we fallen oft' and neglected his views r He says,
" Your understanding, your volition, your free-will, your affection,
your judgment, instinct, &c., will be no longer personified beings
-they will be cerebral functions !'' Is this not an intimation of
the very doctrine we have inculcated? But suppose we had not
been supported by Gall-how senseless the objection ! The
science which he left in its infanc;r has been cradled and nursed,
but we find it still comparatively m its infancy. Are his writinga
to be always referred to for the truth of views deduced from the
position of man generations after his removal ? Such a notion is
untenable-it strikes at the root of all progression, and if applied
to the discoveries and advancement of any other science, to the
labours of DR.vy and Dalton, of Newton or Herschell, would be
considered unphilosophical in the extreme.
Again : we would ask those who are still doubtful, whether by
means of intellect they gain a knowledge of the existence of any-
thing independent of matter? We would ask them whether they
can picture to the imagination "the mind" of man apart from the
organism composing the man? If they cannot do this, we say,
why make man an exception to the invariable law of nature ?
Why, in ascending link by link the chain of organic life, add an
indefinable something to the last link, which it was found un-
necessary to call to our aid in the preceding? Witness the unre-
lenting and savage ferocity of one tribe; the fidelity and tameness
of another; the sagacity, gentleness, and intellectual manifesta-
tions of a third : contrast all these with the characteristicsof man,
and explain, if possible, why we are to have recourse to an hypo-
thesis? Why, in jumping from the sagacious monkey to man,
are we to have recourse to the stimulus of an essence for explain-
ing the superior cerebration he manifests? Why not give a
portion of this or some similar essence to the monkey, because its
cerebration is superior to that o( the sheep or goat? Nay, why
not allow a minute portion of some more impoverished essence to
the fish, which obeys the call of its feeder, and swims to the re-
quired spot for its daily nourishment? If this would be ridiculous
-if no addition be requisite to account for the improved cerebra-
tion of inferior beings-why, without the slightest evidence, are
we to suppose that a higher order of cerebrationin man cannot be
manifested without such addition?
It is this conjectural doctrine-this belief in the individual and
indivisible essence of mind-this love of the miLl'Vellous-this
thirsting after something mysterious, which is retarding the pro-
gress of cerebral physiology, and in the same ratio, the happiness
of man. It is this clinging to old opinions-this disinclination to
shake oft' old garments, which is tlle cause of so much doubt con-
cerning a question so self-evident. We oppose this system by
the antagonism of Reason and Nature. It is impossible any
longer to countenance the opinion. It must be rooted up. It is
like a malignant disease, which can only be cured by extermina-
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
11
tion. Let it be boldly stated, because it is true, that, as philoso-
phers, we have to deal simply and exclusively with matter. lllan
neither possesses, nor does he need the possession of, any other
stimulus than that which is given to the simplest of organised
beings. From the lowest and simplest of organized beings, to the
highest and most complicated, there is nothing more than a gra•
dual addition of parts, accompanied by concentration.
Can any other facts be advanced to prove that cerebration is
merely one of the manifestations of animal life, resulting from a
peculiar combination of matter ? Yes ! we appeal to all animated
nature-every physiological fact proves this. If we survey our
own structure, we are convinced that every organ has its definite
function to perform, and consequently, that each function can be
referred to a particular organ. We cannot conceive action inde-
pendently of cause. Since, then, no manifestation of any power
whatever is demonstrable in living beings without being referrible
to some portion of their structure, it necessarily follows that ce-
rebration must be considered an attribute of a part of the same
structure ; and since the phenomena of cerebration have never
been seen, except in connexion with the brain, it legitimately and
logically follows that the former has a connexion with the latter
in the relation of cause and effect.
Survey the leading characteristics of the nervous system in the
various tribes.
In the lowest class, the Infusoria, the tissues appear to be ho-
mogeneous-there seems to be an absence of cognizable nervous
matter. But we must not forget the fact, that our failure to de-
tect is no proof of non-existence. Even in the human eye, the
arrangement of nervous matter called retina would not be visible,
if it were not for the other tissues entering into its composition :
hei!ce, we learn that it is quite poS!ible to conceive the existence
of nervous matter, although of a nature so transparent and un-
mixed, that it remains invisible to our senses. Analogy would
lead us to conclude that there is a nervous system in these tribes.
How can we avoid the belief, when, notwithstanding their exces-
sive minuteness> requiring a microscope to display them, we see
them discriminate and seize their prey-contract and bend their
bodies in every direction-appear conscious of each other's ap-
proach-in fact, perform movements with as much regularity and
precision a8 animals which undeniably possess a nervous system.
From recent researches it becomes more and more probable that
we shall soon be in a position to demonstrate the nervous system
in all the infusoria, without distinction.
However, to discard doubtful points: as we proceed to investi-
gate higher tribes, we find nervous matter assuming regular and
determinate forms; We perceive ganglionic centres arranged
e11actly where they are required; and in the centres of these
ganglia we find' particles of grey matter, which we shall presently
lee are considered to be the source of power in the higher order
of brains. If [U't!at locomotive powers are necessary, ganglia are
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
12
placed in the neighbourhood of the organs destined to serve this
purpose. If powerful digestive organs are required, nervous en-
ergy is supplied by an assemblage of ganglia round the digestive
apparatus. In some a considerable portion of nervous matter is
above the rnsophagus, and may be considered analogous to the
brain of higher animals. In this way we may investigate,
till we arrive at the Vertebrate classes, where we find cerebral
lobes and a Cerebellum. Now, in proportion as we ascend in the
scale, we obsen-e increased development of these portions, and a
greater amount of intelligence ; in fact, more extended Cerebra-
tion. The surface of the hemisphere becomes convoluted, and
the arrangement of the white portions increases in complexity.
In the brain of the fish there is a want of that concentration so
characteristic of the nen-ous structure of the higher orders.
Every nen-e terminates in a distinct and appropriate ganglion,
and hence the peculiar appearance.
In reptiles we observe a considerable development in the cere-
bral hemispheres, and a proportional diminution of those portions
connected '\\'ith the sensory nerves.
In birds the brain and spinal cord are developed after one uni-
form type ; and here we have the human brain in miniature : of
course, cerebration is found to bear a relation to this develop-
ment. In fishes the several portions of nervous matter are placed
one after the other; but here they are placed one over the other,
forming one mass, ths cerebral hemispheres covering all these
portions supplying the organs of the senses. No doubt this is for
the purpose of attaining more complete consentaneousness of
action. The hemispheres have not yet assumed the convoluted
appearance, but in the interior they present collections of cineri-
tious matter, through which the fibres of the spinal cord pass.
In mammalia, the most perfect specimen of which class is man,
we find the hemispheres assuming a convoluted appearance, and
the number and depth of these convolutions increasing as we
ascend from the lowest to the highest. They are, comparatively
speaking, absent in the rat, mouse, and rabbit ; more distinct in
the whale and dolphin ; still more so in the camel, stag, and
sheep; and very strongly marked in the tiger, dog, cat, ·and
monkey tribes. Besides this peculiarity, the distl"ibution of the
fibres of the hemispheres becomes more and more complicated ;
for, in addition to the ascending or seusory fibres, and the de-
scending or motory fibres, there are those forming the commissures
connecting the two hemispheres ; and to add to the complexity,
there are those which bring the different parts of the same hemis-
phere into connexion with one another.
.What, then, do we perceive by this very superficial survey of
the nervous system ? What conclusion is forced upon us?
This :-Commence where we will, even at the very zero of animal
e..tistence, and ascend to man, there is a gradual increase of size,
greater concentration and complexity, and, pat·i pa.rau, a higher
order of cerebration. Is not the conclusion logically deduced
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
13
from the premises ? Have we not now obtained possession of &
key which will unfold to us new views-suggest new thoughts-
and solve questions, the want of power to elucidate which has
rendered man so long a puzzle to himself ?
We investigate the perfect brain of man, and we become ac.
quainted with a most beautiful and complex structure, performing
a certain function. Comparative physiological reseuch furnishes
us with facts proving the same position. But comparative
physiology furnishes us with other facts. We can now prove
that the beautiful simplicity and invariability of the laws
governing inorganic matter &re common to the laws regulating
organized matter. The perfect man does not reach perfection
by the gradual increase of a perfect form from the commence-
ment; on the contrary, it is capable of demonstration, that the
development of his several organs follows certain and invariable
laws, and that these organs temporarily assume many forms,
which the organs of the lower orders of beings permanently re·
tain. The brain in its development is not an exception to this
law. The brain of the most profound philosopher-the brains of
Bacon and Newton-of Sha.kspeare and Byron, during their for-
mation, assumed for a short time the pecular form of the same
organ in inferior beings. Is this a humiliating reflection ? By
no means. What is the practical deduction l If we see that the
brain of the human being passes, during its gradual development,
through so many inferior types, it is possible there may be a stop-
page of development of some particulu portion. Such we really
find to be the case. Human beings are sometimes born without
a brain-in other cases the hemispheres are wanting, and the
mass presents the appearance we see in fishes-in others, the pos.
terior part of the brain is developed, the anterior and superior
portions remaining very small. Thus we learn the cause of many
cases of idiotcy; and these views, when fully investigated, may
throw a ftood of light on the Jaws regulating the minor modifica-
tions of cerebral matter. In some cases of malformed brain
insiincts present themselves which are never manifested when
there is a proper balance existing between the several regions.
This was seen lately in a most remarkable way at Paris.
A peep into Nature's laboratory is an excellent cure for chi·
merical notions; and one glance at her secret workings will do
more to annihilate the fancies and speculations of spiritual philo-
sophers, than the daily repetition of wordy and hypothetical dis·
putations.
But our investigations must not rest here. Having examined
the nervous organism in the mass, we naturally ask, what is its
ultimate structure ? This question opens a wide field for reseuch,
and a rich harvest remains to be gathered in. When we speak of
a nervous system, many other considerations require attention
besides the mere external form and size. Itwould be impossible,
d priori, to imagine the same formation to extend throughout. A
'fery superficial examination reveals to us two structures. But
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
the application of great ingenuity, and the aid of powerful micro-
scopes, are required to inform us of the ultimate structure of these
two tissues; and from this it follows that the diseasea-the
organic changes-may not be visible without similar assistance.·
The white matter is composed of millions of tubes-the grey
matter is formed by innumerable nervous granules; each tube of
a certain diameter and performing a eeparate and distinct duty-
and each granule connected to its neighbour by minute fibres;
the two conjoined forming a laboratory for the elimination of
nervous power-for the appreciation of various J!timuli-and far
the evolution of thought.
When we have ascertained the minute structure in a genera£
way, our labour is not finished-we have still to obtain a correct
knowledge of the ultimate structure of ind~l portion~.
Thus nerves proceed from the organs of the senses to different
portions of the cerebrum. Can the ultimate structure of all these
portions be the same ? It would be folly, and contrary to all
analogy, to suppose that portions of cerebral matter of the same
structure take cognizance of volatile particles, and tremors of
the air-perceive the picture painted on the retina, and impres-
sions produced by acids or sugar applied to the .tongue. What
<Effcrcnce has yet been detected in the ultimate structure of
the convolutions forming the organs of Destructiveness and
Benevolence, Self-esteem and Veneration, Firmness and Philo-
progcnitivcness? Because two portions of brain appear to
possess the same structure, are we justified in assuming that
they really do ? Motiferous and sensiferous nerves are not to be
detected by any external mark, but the microscope has lately
removed the apparent anomaly. The ordinary excitation of the
nerve of smell depends on the impression of odorous particles
on the minute branches of the olfactory nerve. The character
of the impression will depend on the character of the external
stimulant; but the reason why the same stimulant should be
agreeable to one and disagreeable to another must be looked for in
the peculiar structure of the cerebral organ with which the nerve
is in relationship. A difference in the mere peripheral expansion
of the olfactory nerve will never account for the peculiarity.
Again : why does the same sound affect two persons so differently ?
To one person the noise produced by sharpening a saw is extreme
torture-to another, not at all disagreeable. The sonorous vibra,
tiona musL come to the ear with the same intensity ; and why not
the same result ? We must seek for the cause of this difference
not in thf' structure of the external apparattts-'-not solely in the
structure of the auditory nerves, but in the peculiar molecular or-
ganism of the cerebral organs. We recognise this mode ofreason·
ingwhen we say some persons perceive particular colours, and that
others do not. We do not account for this difference by examin-
ing the tye for proof of a different structure, but appeal to cerebral
physiology, and obtain the knowledge that there is a portion of
brain for recognising the variedshades and combinations•.>f_
colours:-
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
15
The slightest alteution invariably produces a different action.
A difference in the direction of the minute tubes, in the thickne!S
of their walls, in their contents, the slightest increase or diminu·
tion of pressure, a new arrangement of the grey globules, an
alteration in their size and shape-all these changes cannot be
detected with the unassisted eye, yet they may give rise to impor·
tant cl!anges of function.
The improvements which will take place in the treatment of In·
sanity will emanate from our improved physiological kno'Wledge
of ultimate structure. The microscope must be appealed to. In·
sanity is abnormal cerebration, unhealthy action of a portion
of matter. We hear it constantly ass~rted that the brains of indi-
viduals who have been insane for years have been examined, and
no trace of diseased structure discovered. But how have these ex.
aminations been conducted ? By slicing piece after piece, by
tearing and pulling. The cause then is not to be sought for
in the general appearance presented by the brain; but U1e healthy
ultimate structure of each individual portion being ascertained, the
cause of the peculiar form of insanity must be sought in the aber-
ration from the normal standard of a particular portion or portions
of brain. Till this is done, we must remain in the dark; andwe
would contend, that the treatment of many of these cases must be
empirical.
Intimately connectedwith this portion of the subject is the con.
sideration of the form, size, and position of the convolutions. We
are too much engaged in attending to U1e external form ofthe ern·
nium, and not to the convolutions. Every observer must have
noticed the difference in the shape and course of the convolutions
in the two hemispheres. Difficulties should be always met
fairly. This is a point requiring investigation. We require
drawings of the surfaces of a great number of brains, to enablens
to ascertain the ·limits within which the irregularity is confined.
Such considerations suggest the propriety of adopting some plan
for the divison of labour. In all other sciences Uiis course is fo>
lowed. Our science might be divided into several compartments,
and committees appointed for the investigation of particular ques-
tions. Stated periods for the reception ofreports might be fixed,
and as they would embrace all that was known at the time, their
value would be increased by ilieir publication and circulation
amongst our members ; thus diffusing important information, and
exciting many to original investigations.
Wiili regard to the development of particular portions of brain,
and their respectiYe functions, more particularlywiili our new as·
sistant, Animal Magnetism, great victories might be gained. To
accomplish this, certain divisions must be fixed, and individuals ap-
pointed to investigate and report on them alone.
There is another subject which appears to me to be forced on
our attention : it is the present state of our bust. This has been
referred to in a pamphlet published by my friend, Mr. Prideaux.
Every portion is included by line~. with scarcely any attention to
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
16
the natural shape of the organs. If the plan had been pursued of
marking the centres of development only, as was done by Gall,
instead of marking by lines the presumed outline, which is only to
be done in very well developed cases, and should only be figured
on the bust when many cases prove the correctness of the conclu·
sion, we should find a very large portion of the surface unappro·
priated. This is a subject requiring serious consideration. From
the course here alluded to, the stimulus to original investigation
is destroyed by an external appearance of completion and perfec-
tion, which does not exist.
I have now to introduce to your notice a subject of surpassing
interest-Animal ltfagneti&m. We all remember the ridicule
thrown on our own science a few years ago, and we are all
perfectly aware of the absurd. notions which are prevalent regard·
ing this interesting subject. It is not my object to enter into any
lengthened detail of the extraordinary phenomena manifested
during magnetic sleep, except in as far as they bear on Cerebral
Physiology.
The conduct of medical men with regard to tllis subject has ap·
peared to me m08t di&graceful, mo•t derogatory to the profession.
They have refused to investigate facts themselves, yet pinned their
faith to the assertions of an individual who it i8 now flotoricuB
hazarded an opinion on a subject he was profoundly ignorant
of. They have countenanced and encouraged the scurrilous
attacks of the same party on the science and its cultivators,
and supported him in making the columns of a periodical, that
should have been devoted to the diffusion of truth, a channel for
abusing and denouncing one of the first physicians and physiolo-
gists of the day, and one to whom they owe a deep debt of grati-
tude for many improvements in the practical department of their
profession. I regret this, because by education and scientific ac-
quirements medical men were peculiarly called upon to investigate
the subject. The public look to them for an opinion on such sub-
jects. The discovery of a new ganglion, the minute structure of
nervous tissue, the arrangement of ~he fibres of vegetable matter,
or the recent microscopic discoveries in various organs-all these
points are carefully investigated-all these experiments are
repeated again and again-comments are made, errors detected,
and truth ultimately placed on a firm basis. But how is it
with the experiments of the magnetizer? Because they are per·
formed on living matter, and open to the investigation of every one
-because they overthrow preconceived notions-because the
subject is ridiculed, and, therefore, it is not scholastic to believe
-these experiments are not repeated ; but comments are made,
prejudices excited, and Truth left to force her way, unassisted,
against the efforts of the ignorant and interested.
Having experienced such treatment in the infancy of our own
science, it behoves us to avoid a similar line of conduct. The
occurrences of the last few weeks should prompt us to be quick
in our movements. We find clergymen exciting prejudices, by
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
17
appealing to the passions of their hearers, instead of assisting t«
expound Nature's secrets, by appealing to their reason. We
find them hurling forth fulminations against the investigators of
Nature. One has published a sermon, in which he denounces
magnetizers as sorcerers, in league with the enemy of mankind,
because they cannot put forth a scientific statement of the Jaws by
which the magnetic phenomena are produced. If the people are
to be excited and prejudiced by religious orators regarding a
scientific subject-a subject peculiarly the property of Physiolo-
gists-no time should be lost in boldly taking ground, asserting
our rights, and thus preventing even an attempt at the repetition
of those scenes and crimes of the dark ages, the result of bigotry,
intolerance, ignorance, and priestly domination.
The discovery of the magnetic excitation of CerebratiOn, as far
as I am aware, was made in this country by my two friends,
Messrs. Mansfield and Gardiner. These two gentlemen com-
municated their experiments to me, and I immediately attempted
to excite the cerebral organs of one of my patients, who had been
regularly magnetized by me for some time, for the cure of disease.
Exactly the same results were obtained.
On the 7th October, 1841, llfr. Gardiner, during the magnetic
trance of his patient, played a few notes on a small musical
instrument; the patient kept time by a lateral motion of the
head. He then sounded the instrument without attending to
harmony; the patientshuddered, and appeared to be distressed. He
interrogated her as to the cause of this distress; shE: replied she
was in pain ; and when asked where, she placed a finger of each
hand on the organ of Tune, on the same side. I shall not soon
forget the enthusiasm of my friend when he communicated this
result to me. An apple falling from a tree suggested to Newton
the Jaws by which countless worlds hold their unvarying course;
and the muscular distortion of a human countenance suggested
thoughts which will assist in unfolding the greatest problem in
Cerebral Physiolo~. After this experiment, Mr. Mansfield
returned to Cambndge, where he became acquainted with a
gentleman eighteen years of age, exceedingly susceptible of the
magnetic influence. The first intimation he had of the fact, that
the magnetizer could excite a cerebral organ, was on the 18th or·
December, 1841. This patient manifested impaired sense of
time. He said, for instance, that he had been in a room half an
hour, when he had been there more than two hours, and on
another occasion two hours and a half; he would refer to events
that had taken place more than half an hour before, as if a few
minutes only had elapsed. Mr. Mansfield breathed on the organ
of Time, and then asked his patient the same question, when he
named the exact period.
On another occasion he was eating his dinner, and became ex-
ceedingly facetious, his conversation flowing in a strain of ludi-
crousness absolutely irresistible. Mr. M. touched the organ of
Wit, with the intention of arresting his flow of humour, instantly
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
his countenance assumed a graye appearance, and though h:s
conversation continued, the humorous ,·jyacity and drollery en-
tirely disappeared. After a few minutes Mr. M. blew upon the
organ, and immediately the comic strain was again indulged in.
The organ of Alimentiveaess was paralysed in the same manner,
and again excited ; also the organ of Firmness. On the 25th of
December, Mr. M. accompanied Mr. Gardiner on a visit to his
patient. This was the first opportunity Mr. Gardiner had been
enabled to commence his experiments, and to enter into details,
and I am only stating what I know to be true, when I assert that
it is owing to his great exertions, his untiring pa.tience, his cease-
less enthusiasm, and his-constant anxiety to promulgate truth, that
I am enabled to detail to you the leading facts of this extra·
ordinary discovery. He first directed the public attention to this
subject in a letter in the Hamp~hire Tekgraph. .
The cases of my friends are exceedingly interesting, but r think
it will be more in accordance with your feelings and wishes, if I
confine myself to the relation of my own case.
The case which I am about to relate is that of a young lady,
sixteen years of age, who had been confined to her bed eighteen
months. She was magnetized for some time, and, during the
trance, manifested a number of extraordinary phenomena ; but I
shall confine my relation to the experiments on Cerebration.
The patient having been placed in the trance, was allowed to
remain quiet for a abort time. I then simply applied my finger
to the organ to be excited, and willed that it should become so.
The excitation, in the maJority of cases, was instantaneous.
Thus, the finger applied to Imitation produced the most splen-
did mimicry it is possible to conceive. The words and gestures
of friends were copied in the most exact manner. Anecdotes
which had been forgotten by all the members of the family, were
repeated in a way that brought the circumstances instantaneously
to their recollection, notwithstanding many years had elapsed.
On one occasion the manifestation. of the faculty was permitted
to continue fOI' half an hour, and was then stopjled.by a waive of •
the hand over the organ. without contact. The finger on Wit
produced immoderate laughter, checked by a waive of the hand,
and reprodu.eecl by a toU£h of the finger. The finger on Colour
caused the p&tient to see a variety of colours, which, she said,
-were coW\Jred worsteds. The finger on Size, cansed her to say she
·saw "heap& of skein.&,"· When asked the supposed weight of the
qua111ity, she replied slie did not know. The finger on the Orgatl
of- Weight cas~~~ed her immediately to exclaim, "hundreds of
pounds."
Self-Esteem, Firmness, Veneration, Benevolence, Philoprtl·
genitiveness, Caution, &c., &c., were all excited with correspond·
ing results. The natural language of each faculty was most
be•uti£ul, and the patient in the n.atnral. state could not manifest
the fnnctioa in any similar degree.
. The orguw- remained active, even after the patient had resumed
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
19
her natural state. This was so marked, that the attendants han
frequently requested me not to demagnetize the organ of Benevo-
lence, because, when this was allowed to continue active, she
was so much more kind and affectionate.
Mr. Atkinson, Mr. Brookes, Mr. Prideaux, Capt. Valiant, and
Dr. Elliotson, have all obtained similar results, and experiment&
have been made in America which also prove the truth of theae
statements. ·
By a perseverance in these experiments aeveral new orgam1 •
have been discovered; but it would be premature to publish the
results of a few experiments only. The object is to excite atten-
tion and inquiry, and to remove prejudice.
Who can foresee the application of this extraordinary dis·
covery ? Do we not obtain a glance of a new method of treat·
ment in cases of insanity; and are we not furnished with a
means of exciting the cerebral organs, which may prove of vast
importance-may possibly prove to be a mighty power in the
bands of those to whom tlte education of youth is entrusted ?
Shall we, then, allow ourselves to stand convicted of moral
c·owardice ? Shall we refrain from publishing these discoveries,
because they are new--because they are strange-because they
astonish us ? Are we not lovers of truth ? True, we know little
about the matter ; but therein consists the incentive to action-
therein lies the stimulus to research. Shall man, whose present
amount of knowledge may be compared to a grain of sand in the
field of immensity, dare to laugh at, scorn, and ridicule, the
attempts to evolve one of Nature's secrets ? The Cerebral Phy·
siologist who does this is a disgrace to the body he is ranked
with, because he embraces a philosophy which loudly condemns
such a line of conduct. He is not a degree removed from that
Professor of Physiology, and tltat instructor of youth, who ac-
knowledged there was "something" in Magnetism, but who
refused publicly to avow his belief, for fear he should lecture to
empty benches.
We find, then, that the last facts advanced still support our first
axiom, viz., that Cerebration is the function of the brain-one of
the manifestations of animal life, resulting from a certain peculiar
combination of matter-that it is not peculiar to man, but is
exhibited, in a greater or less degree, by all the gradations of
animal life. I am the more anxious to insist strenuously on
the reception of this axiom, because on this basis the science of
Cerebral Physiology is elevated. All Cerebral Physiologists
should inculcate this view. Let it be once understood that all
the actions and all the thoughts of men are the products of mate-
rial changes; let education be conducted oil this belief, and a new
era will dawn-a gross error will be removed, and very soon, all
the minor errors, pernicious accompaniments and consequences,
will disappear with it. Let no Cerebral Physiologist say his.
science is purely inductive, and, in the same breath, speak of " the
mind" of man, for he cannot bri.Jlg forward a single fact to support
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
20
his position. The two following facts cannot be too strongly im-
pressed on the attention of our race :-
lst. That the actions of the human race necessarily result from
its organic constitution. ·
2ndly. That the human race has the power of modelling its
organism, so as to produce, by a seriea of combinations, a high
moral and intellectual character, or a character decidedly the
reverse-in fact, that the existing state of society is its own pro-
duction, and it can either exalt or depress it, by attending to, or
neglecting, the laws governing ita structure.
As one truth prepares the way for the reception of another, so
the knowledge of the fact, that the brain is all that is necessary
for sustaining man in his position, opens the door to a number of
dependent questions and considerations, which are forced on our
attention, because they are the necessary sequences of the pre-
ceding axiom.
For instance, how much more intelligible and important do the
laws ofhereditary descent appear?
Man has power over matter; but to use that power, he must
conform to the laws governing matter.
Man has power over himself and his fellow man ; but io wield
that power, he must investigate, ascertain, and conform to the
laws presiding over organic life.
Has he done this ?-only to a limited extent. Man knows this
truth, and acts in accordance with it, when employed in develop-
ing and perfecting other beings ; but, as regards himself, an im-
measurably more important consideration, he wilfully neglects the
few laws he has discovered, disdainfully turns aside from the in-
numerable facts daily presented to him, and thus retards the
progress of his race, How is this to be explained ? One cause
is evident. He has been weighed down by a spiritual philosophy;
he has been taught, and still believes, that he possesses " a mind"
-that this presiding principle suggests and proposes modes
of action ; in fact, that he is a being of a higher order, in the
possession of something besides his organism, the cause of his
superiority.
\Ve must keep constantly before us the opinion expressed in
the commencement of this Address. We are Natural Philoso-
phers-not bound to reconcile our views with existing notions and
opinions, but to state what we believe to be truth• . Man's actions
and thoughts are the necessary result of the activity of his cerebral
organism, and the cause of the peculiar form of his cerebral
organism, and the resulting modified actions and thoughts must
be sought for in the laws of Hereditary Descent, and the kind of
cerebral training adopted. We know, from abundantobservation,
that the brain can be altered in shape ; and if the laws referred
to were only followed out to their full extent, society might be
remodelled, in the courae of three or four generations.
High moral and intellectual pre-eminence is now the exception,
and not the rule : man could soon reverse the picture. The brain
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
21
can be improved by judicious training; and remember, the
neglected training of one individual brain may exert an influence
over several generations. We would wish to fix our position on
this enlarged view ; we would consider this question as philoso-
phers and philanthropists, not as sectarians-not as affecting the
individual, but as appertaining to man in the aggregate.
The Jaws of organic life are, like all the other laws man has
discovered, invariable. The same causes always produce the
same effects.
Observe individuals possessing superior brains-members of
Nature's aristocracy. Why do they differ from the greater
portion of their race? Compare the distinguishing characteristics,
the elevated grandeur, the high moral and intellectual attainments
of the one, with the grovelling debasement, the notorious animal
exhibitions of the other. What causes have conduced to produce
this difference? Have we discovered the cause ? Can we apply
the knowledge obtained ? If we can, who will limit the applica-
tion ? Why may not tlls race ultimately become partakers of the
same improved organism ? Reasoning as philosophers, we have
everything to hope for, and nothing to regret but the continuance
of apathy and ignorance. We pity the man with his cold, wither·
ing calculations, placing limits to man's progression, fixing his
race to the narrow confines suggested by his own limited power,
and mapping out its future career by the experience of the past,
the perverted activity, the monstrous prostitution of mere animal
powers.
If we are asked, has man unlimited FOWers? we answer, we
know n<>t their limits, and, therefore, cannot set bounds to his
progression. If the few have gained their position by any ascer·
tainable means, we cannot see why the many may not reach the
same standard. If the stimulus has been applied to some, and
such astounding results have been obtained, we cannot see why
the mass of men should not be elevated by the same 1•ivifying
process. The fact of human progression can be ascertained from
history ; but the laws of human progression are not understood,
and their deduction from the study of materiality is not believed.
It is too much the custom to lower, to degrade, to under·rate
man ; "to speak of his proneness to vice-his innate depravity-
his grovelling tendencies, but not of his inherent powe~· to become
t>irtuous; to refer to bjs derelictions from a standard of morality,
as so many proofs of a sinful constitution, instead of tracing effects
to causes, and becoming convinced that all these manifestations
depend on, and are the necessary results of ignorance, and a total
disregard of important physiological truths. It is our duty to
insist on this-to cast new light-to teach that man is to be ele·
vated, not by vainly theorising, not by lukewarm and irresolute
speculations, but by adopting vigorous and efficient measures
b:ised on the laws governing his organism. Let tho rising gem;-
ration be educated in physiological truths ; let them not only be
taught the best means of preserving and improving the constitution
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
22
transmitted to them, but instructed in C&ebrnl Physiology: and,
above all, impressed with the important fact, that the formation
of the brain of their descendants can be calculated with mathe-
matical precision, provided science can be consulted, provided
intellect be the guide, and not mere blind animalism. These are
truths of more importance to the indiTidual and to the race, than
a knowledge of the fooleries and absurdities o( modem society-
more worthy of their attention than the derogatory employment of
copying the last ridiculous fashion, or the st11died forms and mon-
strous attempts to attract the attention o( the rulgar and the
/IIBudo-refined.
When high moral worth and intellectual superiority shall be
the standard,-the eminence to which all shall aspire, the orna-
ments of the present age will be considered the vulsarities of that
whiCh is to come. The improved organism, the inevitable result
of consulting the natural laws, will give improved tone, and there
will be a natural, unstudied gracefulness and simplicity of manner
and character far more enticing, Jar more beautiful than the
unnatural, nonsensical perversions alluded to.
Again : how do these views bear on criminal jurisprudence?
Our law-makers manufacture laws, and our judges apply them,
but both parties are totally ignorant of man's nature. Certain
views have been entertained regarding man, and the best means of
governing him; time has consecrated them, and the reformer who
undertakes to enlighten his race on these questions, notwithstand-
ing he bases all his views on man's nature, is denounced as the
pest of society. Napoleon observes, that "the people of a nation
were not deserving of better l&ws than those they submitted to."
This is the language of a tyrant-this is an extract from the code
of a ruler ruling by brute force. How long will the people of
this country submit to the infliction of injustice, to the punish-
ment of diseased individU&ls, for actions the ~aaary reault of
the activity of an imperfect organism transmitted to them by
parents who were allowed to continue enveloped in the grossest
ignorance? This will depend on our exertions. We have
pointed out the rational mode of proceeding, and we must not
cease our endeavours till we succeed in every particular.
The recognised instructors of the people teach that the gift of
miml is to the foolish as well as to the wise. and that according as
it is neglected or cultivated, must be tlt.e consequences, be
they what they may. Believing and inculcating the doctrine,
th&t a man has the power of framing his own line of :londuct,
they take upon themselves to punish a man for any derelictiGU
from a certain standard. They punish a being for a certain act,
because they are ignorant, and cannot point out the cause of
its performance. The means they use to prevent a recurrence,
is terror and punishment-if these fail, annihilation. Venge~
can destroy the being, but will never reform him ; it can destr~)'
the vitality of cerebral matter, but it will never prevent certain
actions resulting from certain com.binations.
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
23
If this be tnte regarding the individmil, it is equally true as re-
gards the community, and it is foolish and unjust to punish
offenders with the hope ofdeterring others by the example. Surely
the occurrences of the last century will prove this! Recal the
thollSalld gibbets, and the thousand specimens of humanity
dangling from their centres-the scaffold reeking with human
gore-the wheels and the mangled limbs-the galley and its thou-
sand occt>pants-the jails and the penal colonies, and all their
attendant horrors. Is there less crime, Jess violence ? Is man
informed by all this exhibition of animalism what his duties are ?
Should we subdue a furious lion by destroying daily in its cage
one of its one species? To tame this beast we study its nature ;
to tame man we must follow a similar course. Is not the spot
polluted by our executions crowded by an assemblage of or-
ganisms similar in many respects to the one we are destroying?
'l'he majority of those who attend these exhibitions of brute force
require care and attention; the stimulus they there receive is like
water to a thirsty man-it is pleasurable-and differs only in
degree from the excitement they receive from a bull-fight, or the
struggles in the boxing ring. We denounce the bloody antuse-
ments of the Romans, and refer to them as examples of a
barbarous age; but in what consists the difference between the
spectator two thousand years ago, witnessing and rejoicing over
the gaspings of the dying gladiator, and the man of yesterday,
cheering, hooting, and then beholding the convulsive throes of the
gibbetted convict? The gladiator fought for a garland and for
victory, prompted by a false standard of glory-by the inordinate
animalism of the wealthy Roman; the convict is destroyed by
sanguinary laws, for committing a crime-for following the im-
pulses of an organism so unfavourably developed as to constitute
him a moral patient-because it is more easy to crush than to
reiMdel.
Is this a test of civilization ? Is this a proof that our rulers
understand man's natm:e? If we wish to know the stage of
civilization reached by a people, let us ascertain whether they are
obeying the Jaws governing their organism, whether they have
acquired the important knowledge of the connexion between
them and their own happiness. Civilization is not to be mea·
sured merely by the amount of luxury, by the increased accumu·
Jation of comforts, or by the numerous victories achieved by
Science, annihilating time and space, and really, in fact, render-
ing the whole race members of one community. No! The
great test of civilization is the progress made by a people in those
refinements of social intercourse, which result from moral and
intellectual improvement-the extent of the inculcation of those
laws and those principles which tend to elevate the many and
not the few, which have for their object, and embrace in their
fullest scope, every circumstance calculated to impart the greatest
amount of happiness and freedom.
As Cerebral P_hysiologists, we must insist on the application of
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
24
the principles ot our science to the unportant question or
Criminal Legislation; by no other means will it be cleared of its
flifficulties, and in no other way will those unfortunate beings be
properly protected, who are continually rendered amenable to
the laws of their country. The rulers ofthis country have yet to
be taught that a man'1 conduct i& the inevitable ruull of hil cerl·
bral organum, modified by the circu7n8tancu which IV1TOUtld !lim
at any Btated period.
It is the universal appreciation of this truth, marked in strong
and indelible characters on the skull of every human being,
which constitutes the power by which the criminal code of this
and every other country is to be reformed. Undoubtedly these
views are not generally entertained, but they are JDaking rapid
progress, and, like the silent march of truth in other departments
of science, will ultimately overcome all opposition. · Such views
suggest the necessity of treating criminals as moral patients. It
is as in-ational to punish a criminal for conduct resulting from an
unhealthy brain, as to punish a child labouring under rickets 11nd
distorted limbs for falling. Is it optional with the child to pos.
sess healthy, well-formed limbs? Think you it is optional with
the criminal to be, or not to be, guilty of a crime? The preced·
ing views evidently tend to point out the folly of such an opinion;
and having proved that the committal of the crime is not to be attri-
buted to the free-will of the culprit, the next question is, how is
the tendency to crime to be removed ? In this consideration,
what an important position do the laws of Hereditary Descent
occupy ? Of how great value the preceding observations ? A
boy with a malformed brain commits a crime-the law immedi-
ately punishes him; but till lately, and now only to a very
limited extent, we have adopted no method of discipline at all
calculated to remove the disposition to repeat the offence. How
came the boy to possess this brain ? To the ignorance of how
many generations is it to be attributed ? Did society take
especial care to educate his parent:> ? Did they know that they
possessed a peculiar conformation of the brain, which of necessity
they must impart to their offspring ? No! They were allowed
to l'eniain ignorant; they were permitted to bequeath to society
a being not only useless, but absolutely dangerous. Eagles never
give birth to doves. The juvenile patient, then, with such an
organism, and surrounded by certain external circumstances, is
pushed on to the performance of certain actions called criminal,
but which, we say, are symptom~ of disease, and require appro-
priate treatment.
The boy is sent to jail. What is done there ? Is any moral
lesson taught? Is any example presented by which he may
1·egulate his future conduct? No! He associates with others
like himself, and perhaps a great deal worse. His propensities
are roused, his moral powers untrained, his intellect unenlight-
ened. He associates with those who laugh at the laws ofsociety,
'Who scorn virtuous resolutions, whose whole cnergit>s are directed
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
25
against morality and industry, and who feast on the reports of
successful villany, and the practice of sensual indulgence. His
period of confinement expires, and what becomes of him? He
IS ejected, seeks out his former companions, a greater adept than
before in vice and every species of profligacy. Is the disease
cured ? Has confinement diminished the natural tendency to the
production of diseased manifestation? If Cerebral Physiology
were properly understood, could this one, selected from many
abuses, exist another year ? If you wished to cure a passionate
child, would you allow it to associate with those of a like temper?
If you wished to check the progress of a contagious disease,
would you commence your endeavours by allowing patients of all
kinds to mix indiscriminately? An ill-formed or diseased brain
is a fountain pouring forth continued streams of impure produce.
An individual possessing such a brain, if placed in a situation
where the animal passions are allowed to run riot, will never be
guided to virtue. The sapling, tended with care, may be made
to grow straight, but the old tree, aged in its deformity, alters
not. How different would be the effect if the boy, at the moment
of his dereliction from a moral standard, were placed in an
asylum from which temptation to vice was excluded, and in
which the highest moral and intellectual training was adopted!
The present state of our criminal laws is a speculation; but
unfortunately it has not met with the fate of most unsuccessful
speculations, that of being overthrown. The legislature will not
make use of the only obvious method for the prevention of crime;
its sole attention is directed to the effect,-the cause is disre-
garded. These are subjects on which our rulers have not thought
-they have no philosophy to guide them-the whole animus of
the laws they have made has reference only to punishment, and
the criminal will never be reformed by such means.
But how numerous, how endless the applications of our
science! There is not a subject appertaining to man, either with
reference to his present state or future progress, or as regards his
formation, his education, or his government, which is not digni-
fied and enriched by the illustration it affords, by the clear and
philosophical views it enables us to take of difficult and intricate
questions. It builds a foundation on which we must erect the
machinery which is to propel onward and onward our race-it
affords the means by which '\\:C are to remove all the impediments
to our advance-it insists on the adoption of principles and laws
applicable to all nations and all climes, and will accomplish for
sentiment and feeling what the physical sciences promise to effect
with regard to space-the consolidation of mankind into one uni-
versal brotherhood. It advocates freedom, and abhors tyranny
-it recognises the free and unrestrained manifestation of thought
-it matures all views, and patronizes all schemes calculated to
increase man's happiness, and would banish at once and for ever
the remnants of barbarism, the rt-lics of a debasing animalism.
Is this not an exciting theme ? Are we not bound to use all
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
26
our exertions to advance such a cause? Yes ! · The wedge has
been introduced and it must be driven home. Opinions have
been promulgated, and they must be countenanced and enforced.
Immense numbers acknowledge the truth of certain principles
and axioms, but tlug are afraid to trork tMIAM4. In private they
applaud certain views and reasons-in public they are cowards
and shrink from the avowal of their opinions. The remark of
Plato is still applicable, although ages have intervened-" The
e~s of the multitude are not strong enough to look at truth."
But this must not continue. If this be true of the mass, let
it not be said of Cerebral Physiologists. W~ must dare be men.
In this boasted free country man is yet a slave-is still afraid
of his fellow-man. The frown of Power can crush the most
superb intellect, and prevent the utterance of thoughts calculated
to invigorate the drooping energies of kindred brains. In this
land of liberty, the first touch of our shore infuses freedom
into the enslaved muscle, but binds tighter the fetters surrounding
thought-bids the trembling captive assert therights of humanity,
but prevents the free action of the organ,-the cause of his
superiority. We vote millions of our treasure to unchain limbs,
but make our judges persecute men for their opinions and
thoughts-in theory and outward appearances encourage cendour
and free aspirations, in practice and in the secret workings of our
institutions, render men hypocrites and slaves.
But there are some who laugh at our e1forts-who treat our
views as chimerical, and our ideas of progression as Utopian.
These are the drones of society-these are they who first opposed
all attempts at education-who exclaimed, "after all, education
is but teaching us to do evil in the best possible way;" and now,
because the meagre nature of the supply, the miserable pittancE:
dealt. forth, prevents the result from becoming immediately
apparent, think they are safe in denouncing all who entertain
opposite opinions, as enthusiasts and vulgar zealots. Ye drones !
look to the past history of your race. Do ye not observe
that man is a progressive being-that the improbabilities and sup-
posed chimeras of one age become the facts and scientific truths
of the succeeding; and the limits, if there are limits to change and
progression, man can neither foresee nor predict.
Ye drag-chains to social improvement! it is ignorance that
prompts you to declare that man is toremain "degraded," "radi-
cally depraved," "desperately wicked,"-that all his labours, let
them be ever so Herculean, will not make him a better being, or
raise him one degree nearer perfection.
We scout such opinions, a.nd we hail with eurpusing joy
the promulgation of a sounder philosophy; we contend that happi-
nees is not incompatible with humanity; but we know that as
much as the arid waste differs from the fertile .field, so much does
man as he u differ from what he might bs.
Onr task, then, is to proclaim the means to be .adopted, to teach
what u in man, to insist on the inculcation of this truth-" M9-Il
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
27
know thyself-all wisdom centres there;" and, above all to each
of our body individually I woold say, in the words of th~ poet-
___ " To thine ownoelf be true;
Aod it muot foUow, as the oigbt the claf,
Thou can'at not tileD be ·Calle to aDJ' man."
LETTER FROM DR. ELLIOTSON.
Cmmml' 8TIIl!ET, September 1, 1842.
MY DEAB DOCTOR,
AT the late meeting of the Phrenological Association, I
stated that both the case of Sarah Badger, recorded in the Medic<1l
Times for Juno 11th, fell faT short of proving the truth of mes-
meric phrenology; and that of Captain Valiant's nl11'8e, recorded
in the number for June 25th, was inconcl118ive to me on account
of the localities being mesmerized by contact, and my want of
positive knowledge that the patient was at the ftrat experiment
ignorant of phrenology. Since then I have informed you that
my conviction of the possibility of mesmerizing distinct cerebral
organs is complete; and you have requested me to write to you a
letter with my opinion, which you may print at the end of your,
allow me to say, powerful, truly philosophical~ benevolent, &Dd
noble address.
I have had for some months under my care, for dreadful fits o£
many years standing, which are yielding satisfactorily to mes-
merism, two charming youthful patients, of excellent cerebral
development and carefully brought up, of high intelligence, and
of high moral character, beautifully illustrating the power of good
training upon a well-developed brain. No poet or moralist could
desire .finer specimens of all that is delightful in the youthful
mind. They have not known each other. They both exhibit
exquisite mesmeric phenomena. Are thrown into a profound
coma, which no impression on the senses will dispel, and which
soon becomes sleep-waking; their limbs may then be stiffened at
pleasure and endowed with enormous force, which although not
yielding to mechanical violence, gives way to contact, or to ~
breath, or to movements of the operator's hand, without contact,
in the direction opposite to that of the limbs' position ; the T&ri•
ons muscles of the face may be made to twitch as if with elec-
tricity, and the eyes be opened or the bodybe drawn by movements
of the fingers, and hands held at a short distance; the position of
each finger of the operator's hand will be minutely imitated.
though the eyes be cloeed, and the experiment be made out of
the patient's sphere of vision. Though ahowing all the aigns o£
sleep in the breathing, the falling of the head. the aspect, and the
exquisite positions, they may be roused to talk, but aever recos-
nize the person nor the place. Their dream, if 10 it may be
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
28
called, is perfectly rational ; but the real place, and person ad-
dressing, and even the time, are invariably fancied otherwise than
!s the fact.
I know to a certainty that both are totally ignorant of phreno-
logy. Without any previous intention, I one day tried to mes-
merize some ofthe cerebral organs in the young lady. On placing
the point of a finger on the right organ of attachment, she strongly
squeezed my fingers of the other hand, placed in her right hand,
and fancied I was her favourite sister; on removing it to the
organ of sdf-esteem, she let go my fingers which were in her
right hand, repelled my hand, mistook me for a person she dis-
liked, and talked in the haughtiest manner. On replacing the
point of my finger on attachment, she squeezed my fingers of the
other hand again, and spoke affectionately. I removed the point
of my finger to destructiveness, and she let go my fingers again,
repelled my hand, mistook me for some one she disliked, and fell
into a passion. The finger upon benevolence silenced her in-
stantly; and made her amiable, though not attached. I thus
could alter her mood, and her conception of my person at plea-
sure, and play upon her head as upon a piano.
On repeating these experiments, I soon found that the same
results ensued, though not so rapidly, by merely pointing the
finger near the organs : and this was the more satisfactory in
demonstrating the facts to others; and indeed ithas beenquite satis-
factory to every one, for not only were the eyes closed, but stopped
up by a handful of handkerchief, held firmly upon each eye, and
the experiments were made on organs so situated, that, had her
eyes been open, I defy her to know to what organ I was pointing.
These experiments I have repeated twenty times. But a fact
still more wonderful is this. 'l'he state of the organ of one side
gives evidence of itself on only half of the system. For instance,
if I place my fingers in her right hand, and mesmerize attach·
ment in the right side, she squeezes them and mistakes me for a
dear friend; if I then mesmerize self•esteem, on the left side,
she still speaks to me kindly, and squeezes my fingers with her
right as much as ever. But if I place my fingers in her left
hand, she repels them, and speaks scornfully to me, mistaking
me for some one whom she dislikes. If I take holu of both her
hands with one of mine, I can at pleasure make her repel both,
by pointing over each organ of self-esteem or destructiveness ;
squeeze both, by pointing over each organ of attachment ; or
repel one and squeeze the other, right or left, accordingly as I
point over the organ of self-esteem or destructiveness on the
one side and that of attachment on the other, at the same time.
These simultaneous, and especially the opposite, in1luences on
the two sides, are the most astonishing and beautiful experiments
that all physiology affords ; and the sight of them enraptures
every person. They are the more satisfactory, because there 18
no necessity for me to operate ; any person, even a sceptic in both
phrenology and mesmerism, may point to and mesmerize her
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
29
respective cerebral organs himself, if standing behind her. Under
the opposite states of the two sides of the brain, she will address
the person supposed on the one side or on the other, and speak
affectionately, proudly, or angrily, as attachment on the one
hand, or self-esteem or destructiveness on the other, is mesmer-
ized. The expression, the tone, to say nothing of the words or
the action of her hands, are exquisitely and rapidly in character.
In the youth, the organs at present can be excited by contact only
ofthe pointofthe finger, or by breathing over them. Attachment,
self-esteem, destructiveness, music, and colour, I have excited in
him, and the effects come very slowly, and continue long.
It is very interesting to see the first degree and the working up
of the feelings. When self-esteem begins slowly, they think others
are proud, and then become haughty themselves; when destruc-
tiveness begins slowly, they think otherswish to quarrel, and then
they quarrel,-or they begin to find fault with the fancied person,
who is beloved in the waking state, and then mistake him for one
disliked in the waking state.
Oh, that Gall could have lived to see this day-these astound-
ing proofil of the truth of phrenology-proofs by which I have at
once converted irresistibly to the firmest conviction of the truth of
phrenology those who could never be induced before to bestow a
moment's attention upon it. I have made more persons phreno-
logists during the last month than in all my previous life.
If it should be urged that these experiments prove nothing for
phrenology, because the excitement of certain ideas in the brain
-of the patient resulted from the merewill of the operator, and not
from his manipulations over particular cerebral organs, the answer
is easy. The will of the operator certainly must be influential in
producing mesmeric sleep, if it is true that patients may be mes-
merized to sleep when the mesmerizer is far away from them ;
and I presume it is. But this can be only one source of power.
I have made experiments in mesmerism daily, except the two
months when I travel in every year, for five years, carefully, with
no other desire than that of truth, and in the utmost variety of
cases, and have never once discovered the influence of my will.
I have never produced anyeffect by merely willing: I have never
seen reason to believe (and I have rr.ade innumerable comparative
experiments upon the point) that I have heightened the effect of
my processes by exerting the strongest will, or lessened them by
thinking intentionally of other things and endeavouring to bestow
no more attention upon what I was about than was just.necessary
to carry on the process. So far from willing, I have at first had
no idea of what would be the effect of my processes,-one set of
phenomena have come une:epectedly in one case, and one in
another, without my being able to explain the diversity of effect:
nay, the same process, conducted with tile ~ame objecl, turns out to
produce opposite results in different cases; for instance, I can
powerfully excite the individual cerebral organs in the young gen.
tleman by breathing over them, but when I breathe over those ot
30
the young lady, desiring and expecting theaameetl'ects, no excite-
ment is FC>duced; on the contrary, if they are already excited,
they at once become inactive. The same eft"ect requires different
proceases in di.l£ere11.t persons; poiJI.t to the epigastrium of 110me
persons, and will with all yom might, and no rtliiUlt comes, but
point to their eyes, and they drop asleep ; make passes or point
at the back of the head, and will with all your mi!ht, and either
no eft"ect will ensue, or sleep will net take place before far longer
time has elapsed than if you operate before the face ; you may
make passes ill vain with all yom might before the face of some
persons, who drop senteless presently if you merely point; and
hence is apparent the t:rror of those who gratuitously assert that
the processes merely heighten the will of the operator. As to
the influence of the operator's will in exciting the cerebral orgam,
the eff'ect enaues aa well in my female patient though the mani-
pulator be a seeptic and may therefore be presumed not to wish
the proper result to ensue, and though I stand aside and do not
know what organ he has in view : I have never excited them by
the mere will : I have excited them with my fingers just as well
when thinking of other matters with my friends and momentarily
forgetting what I wu about : I have always failed, however much
I willed, when I have directed the finger to another organ than
that which I willed to excite intentionally, or have accidentally
misdirected my finger : I was taken qrute by surprise when I
found that I mesmerized an organ, self-esteem for instance, in the
half only to which my finger happened to be pointed.
Some as gratuitously ascribe the phrenological results to sym-
pathy with the operator's state of brain. Now I never could dis-
cover any sympathy between the mental state of eith,er of my
youthful patients and myself, when not mesmerizing their cerebral
organs ; and sympathy during the process there could be none,
for, while mesmerizing their pride or destructiveness, I have been
most calm, hU1Dble, and benevolent, lost in wonder and delight
at what was before me.
I must quote to you this remarkable passage from Smellie's
Phi/Qsophy ofNatural Hutcwy: .
" I can conceive a superior being so thoroughly acquainted
with the human frame, so perfectly skilled in the connexion and
mutual dependence which subsist between our intellect and our
~ensitive organs, as to be able, by titillating in variou& modes and
directions, particular combinations ofnerves, orparticular branches
of any aingle nerve, to ewte in the mind what ideas he may
think proper. 1 can likewiae conceive the possibility of suggest·
ing any particular idea, orspecies of ideas, by aft"ectingthe nerves in
the same manD.er aa thoae ideas aft"eet them by any other cause."
By the discoveries of Gall te• know the individual portions of
the nerv$ta soystem which serve for partieular ideas, and by the
late progress of mesmerism we know how to excite these indtri·
dual portiona,-we are now, eo far, thoae 111periorty e~
~eings fancied by Smellie. And yet tbere are men, vainly callilll
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
31
themselves phrenologista, whose intellect and nobler feelings are
a completely stunted ae if grown in the darkness and n&rrOWlle89
o( the middle ages, and who are impenetrable and scoft'.
Permit me to say &ne word upon Materialism-a sound which
generally excite& certain feelings blindly, without any participa-
tion of the intel.lect.
No fact in nature is more evident than that in certain conditions
matter tb.inka. Evety animal is matter : every indisputable
animal baa a. portion of itself peculiarly compounded and or-
ganised, and termed nervous, which executes the functions of
feeling and conscioU8lless, desire and will. In proportion a.s the
composition and organization of this are more exquisite, and its
developments more considerable, the faculties are more numerous
and powerful. The organ is subject to every influence and every
change to which all other organs are subject ; and every change
in it changes the mental functions, a.s much a.s changes in other
organs change their functions. The brain and its functions are
subject to precisely the same laws a.s the other portions of the
body and their functions. To ~be the properties of the brain
to a spirit, or something disti!K:t from matter, is a.s childish as it
would be to ascribe the property of gravitation, the phenomena of
light, heat, electricity, or the properties of plants, to something
diatinct from matter. To call matter gross, and say it is incapa-
ble of the highest and most exquisite properties, is untrue. Its
particles are indefinitely minute: its properties are most exquisite,
as seen in the phenomena. of light, electricity, ga.lva.uism, magnet·
ism, gravitation, all acting with astounding rapidity through the
immensity of space, and in the phenomena. of vegetable life,
where beauty of all kinds, and properties of affecting particular
animale and particula.r parts of a.uima.ls in endless surprising man-
llers, are the results of its peculiar composition and organization.
Grant this, say some ; but still you would not be so stupid, nay
so impious, as to assert that matter can think and will, and have
a consciousness of personality ? Yes, I do assert it ; for this is
the fact. There it is ; there it has been ; and there it will be.
All animals will and think, and have a. consciousness of person-
ality :-the whale and each of the animalcules which are not
larger than the three or four hundredth part of an inch. If a
spirit is required for thinking and willing, and for the sense of
personality, evety one of these microscopic creatures must have
a spirit 01' a. soul. Awa.r with such nonsense. "All the diffi-
culties that are raised agamst the thinking of matter," says Locke,
" from our ignorance or narrow conceptions, stand not in the way
of the power of God, if he pleases to ordain it so." "The
faculties of brutes prove either that God can and doth give to
aome parcel• of matter, a power of conception and thinking; or
·that all animala have immaterial, and consequently immortal
!ouls, a.s well as men : and to sa.y that fleas, and mites, &c. have
immortal -m aa well aa men, will possibly be looked on as
jJoiDg & great way to secure an HYrOTHESis." Second Reply to
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
32
tM Bi8Aop of 1Vorcuter, p. 466, 8vo. ed. Ac A PA.llTICLE," says
Paley, "does no less than fix whether that which is about to be
produced, shall be a vegetable, a merely sentient, or a rational
being-an oak, a frog, or a PHILOSOPHER." Natural Th«Jlogy,
conclusion, p. 591. The Christian should think it impious to
hold matter-the creation of his God-to be so vile ; and impious
thus to limit God's power.
If the matter-of-fact men-the materialists-can thus quote
Locke and Paley in favour of them~lves, they can quote also the
renowned apologist of the Bible-Bishop Watson-against the
speculators-the spiritualists. "When I went to the University,"
he writes, "I was of opinion, as most •cAoolboy1 are, that the
soul was a substance distinct from the body, aild that when a
man died, he, in classical phrase, breathed out his soul-animam
e:epiraflit; that it then went I knew not whither, as it had come
into the body from I knew not where or when, and had dwelt in
the body during life, but in what part of the body it had dwelt I
knew not." "This notion of the soul was without doubt the off-
spring of prejudice and ignorance." Anecdotes of the Life of
Bishop Watson, p. 14. Another Bishop, Dr. Law, in his Theory
of Religion, proves that the words soul and spirit mean not an
immaterial immortal spirit, but merely person,-1uperior and in-
ferior mental faculties,-living creature ; death, a total ces1ation
of existence; the life hereafter, a second bodily existence.
And then comes another absurdity-another piece of rubbish,
left from the darkest and most superstitious times. Unless you
believe in a soul-unless you adopt an hypothesis which explains
nothing-yes, which is a mere fancy and whim, you cannot be-
lieve in a future state. As though the evidences of Christianity
ought not alone to convince a truly believing Christian of the
reality of a future state and all else declared by Scripture, and its
revelation to require no assistance from probability and specula-
tion ; as though, if a future state were discoverable by natural
evidence of the existence of a soul, a revelation would have been
required to inform us of it-to bring "life and immortality to
light;" as though a belief in a future state is suggested by analogy,
reason, or nature, and as though this must not evidently be a
miracle-a aupernatural occurence-" a mystery," as St. Paul
says-a free, additional gift of God, so that Bishop Watson de·
clares, "I have no hope of a future existence, except that which
is grounded in the truth of Christianity." Anecdotes, ~c. p. 107.
"Hoping as I do," he also says, "for eternal life thmugh JeiUI
Chri8t, I am not disturbed at my inability clearly to convince
myself that the soul is or is not a substance distinct from the
body." P.ll9.
Thus that which a bishop viewed with indifl'erence terrified all
the more pious, learned, and enlightened members of the Phreno-
logical Association. Believe me, my dear Doctor,
Yours most sincerely,
JOHN ELLIOTSON
J, Wntaoa, l'riater and Publisher, t>, l'aul's Alley, l'atera01ter :Row,
o'o"''•JbyGoogle
ruuttc n orsn1p • • . • . . . • . • . . . . . . • . . . . • . . . •.• • . • . • . • • u
--Discourse to the Societyof Theophil~nthropish at Paris 0 I
--- Life, by the. Editor of the National...... . ......... 0 6
--- Portrait, engraved on Steel, Proof~. . . . . . •• •. •• . . •. .~ 0
Ditto, Plain.. •• •• •• •. •• •••. . . •. •. •• •••• •••• •• •• 0 6
TRACTS BY ROBERT ·DALE OWEN-
Tracts on Republican Government and National Education • 0 3
Induence of the Clerical Profession . . . . . . . . . . . • •. . •• •••• 0 3
Republican Government and National Education •• •. . . . . •• 0 3
Sermons on Loyalty, Free Inquiry, &c.................... 0 3
Hopes and Destinies of the Human Species .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 0 II
Address on Free Inquiry... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 0 II
Darby and Susan : a tale of Old England .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 0 II
Wealth and Misery ......... ~........................... 0 II
Situations: Lawyers, Clergy, Physicians, Men, and Women. 0 II
Galileo and the Inquisition.. .. .. .. .. .. •.. .. .. .. . .. .. •• •• 0 II
Lecture on Consistency .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. o 2
Prossimo's Experience, &c. &c.. .. .. .. .. . . . . .. .. .. . .. .. • 0 2
The above Tracts can be had in 1 vol. neat cloth boards •• ; . II 6
R. D. Owen's Moral Physiology; a brief and plain treatise
on the Population Question .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 0 6
P. B. Shelley's Queen Mab; a philosophical poem, complete,
with all the Notes, 1 vol. cloth boards ........•••••••.•.
Ditto, in a wrapper .......................... ..
-----Masque of Anarchy, &c. &c. with a Preface by
Leigh Hunt......................................... .
Sketch of the Life of P. B. Shelley .. .. .. .. •• .. .. .. •.. ..
Progressive Exercises. By W. Hill ..................... .
6
0
0 3
0 II
1 0
0 6
The Grammatical Text Book. By W. Hill. ••.•..•••.•.••
Fifteen Lessons on the Analogy and Syntax of the English
Language.......... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •.. • .. .. .. .. .. II 0
Th~ National; a useful collection of original and selected
matter in fa'four of Liberty and Free Inquiry ; illustrated
by 27 Wood Engravings, 1 vol. avo., cloth boards and
lettered............ .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6 0
To be bad also in Parte, and in Numbers.
Palmer's Principles of Nature, cloth boards, lettered •. •••. II 0
Ditto ·ditto, in a wrapper .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. •••• 1 6
To be bad in Nine Numbers, at Twopence each.
Bailey's Monthly Messenger; a repository of information,
: 1 vol. cloth boards.. . . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 3 8
To be had in Ten Numbers, at Threepence each.
Carpenter's Political Text Book, 1 vol. cloth boards.. . . •. . . II 6
Clark's Letters to Dr. Adam Clarke, on the Life, Miracles,
&c. of Jesus Christ, 1 vol. cloth boards •. •. •••••• •••••• 6 o
Bible of Reason, 1 vol. cloth boards and lettered •. •. •• •• •• 7 o
To be had in Parte and Numbers.
Bno,narotti's History of Babeuf's Conspiracy for Equality,
1 vol. cloth boards.. .. .. .. .. .. .. •. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 4 o
To be had in Twenty Numbers at Twopence each.
Bronterre's Life of Robespierre, vol. 1, cloth boards . •••. •• 6 0
To be ha:l in Parts at One Shilling, or in Numbers at Three-
pence each.
The New Ecce Homo, 1 vol. cloth boards . . . . .• •. . . •• •. •• 3 o
Rev. R. Taylor's Dieges!s, 1 vol. cloth boards •.•.•.•.•.•• 10 6
Lawrence's Lectures on Physiology, Zoology, and the Natural
J' istory of Man, 12 plates, 1 vol. boards.. .. . .. .. .. .. .. • 4 6
I.< ' on Prayer. By Lunn •. . . •. . . . . . . . . . • •. •. ••. • •. o 11
uvv..... ,_,.,.,.eu "' u, raunr .auey, racerRo!lrer now.
Rev. R. Taylor's Syntagma.................... •••. . . . ••• 2 6
---Ditto, First Missionary Oration •. •. ••. . ••. . •••••• 0 3
--Ditto, Speech on Receiving Judgment.. •. ••••• ••• •• 0 2
Paine's Political Works, complete, 2 vola. avo•.••••.••••• 14 o
Boulanger's Critical Examination of the Life of St. Paul.... 1 o
Lord Chesterfield'• Ears. By Voltaire •. •. •. •••. •• •. •• •• o 3.
Thoughts on Religions Persecution •. •• •. ••. •. •. •. •• •••• 0 2
The God of the Jews; or, Jehovah Unveiled ••. . •. •. •. •••• I 6
New Trial of the Witne11es at the Resurrection of Jesua
Christ •.•...•..••••...•.•....•••••..•••.••..•.•••.•.
The Miraculoua Conception..•...•..••.•.•.••••....•••.••
I o
0 2
1 0
1 0
0 6
The Free Inquirer. By Peter Annett .•••..•.•••••••.••••
Freret's Letter from Thrasybulus to Leucippe.••••••.••.•..
Christian Myatery, and several other Tracts •.• ~ •. . ••••• ..
Dialogue between a Peasant and a Soldier. By Sir WUlliam
Jones................................................ 0
Character of a Priest.. . . . ••. •. •• •. •••. •••••. •••••••. •• . . 0 1
Watson Refuted. By S. Frances, M.D................... 0 8
All the above Tracts are in the octavo size, and printed In good
type, some of them formed a part of the volumes las~ted by tbe
late Mr. Carlile under the name of "The Deist, or Moral Philo·-
sopher." Only a few Copies remain of the above list. The
prices put to them are eonsiderably below their original coat.
An Abstract, embodying the Evidences of the Lectures de~
livered by Mr. Carlile, at Brighton, and elsewhere In the
year 1836... •• • • •• •. •• • ••• •• •• •• •••• • • •• •• •• •• •• • . •• •• o 3
THE LATE WILLIAM THOMPSON, OF CORK.
The remaining portion of the three following workl are offered to
the public at very reduced prices.
Thompson's Appeal of Women, in a wrapper •. •••••••••••• 6
(Published at 61.)
- - - - Labour Rewarded, in a wrapper •. •••• •••• •••• 0
· (Published aua.)
- - - - Enquiry Into the Distribution ofWealth, boarda. . 5 0
(Published at as.) · ·
Persons desirous of procuring these Talll&ble work• ehould lose no
' time in giving their orders.
England, an Oligarchy. By Jonathan Dunean •.•••.•••• •• 2 0
Tbe ouly Conservative System of Joint Stock Commercial
and l11dustrial Association. By Ariatarehns ••••. . •••••• o 2
Portrait'of Gall .•.••.•.•.••••.••.•••••••••.•••••••••• •• 0 3
Ditto, of Spurzbeim ••..•..••.•••••••••• •• ••..•••• •••••• 0 3
Twelve Lectures on the Non-exlatence ofthe Devil •••• •••• 1 0
The Devil Dissected. By R. Buchanan •••. •••. •••••• . ••• o 3
A Prayer for Intellectual Light •••. •••• . •••. •. •. ••• •. •• 1 0
Alphabet of Geology. By W. M. Higgins................ 1 0
Funeral Sermon on the late Richard Carlile. By Emma
Martin.......................... . ......... . ......... 0 3
The Model Republic, Nos. 1 to 4, each (monthly)...... . ... 0 3
Owen's Six Lectures on the Evils of the existing State of
Society, cloth boards.••.•••••••••••...•.•.•.•••••••• •• 1 6
~:'ki~~~:O~!ife~c";lTh~~;;~f.th; u~iv"e"r~~;j;~i:cl~thbd.~ ~
To b~ had In Numbers at Threepence each.
Life and Beauties of Pemberton.....•••••••.••••••••••• •• 0 3
,, __,._, _.. __• ...• -. .. "•· •- - t '--4.~- -.11'::'!-.a . n •
