{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n13_where_man_got_idea_of_god.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N13 Where Man Got Idea Of God","mylang":"de"}
>**VTy.
The Thirteenth
neMm
galahad
lectures
“W here M an Got His
Idea o f O ne God”
BEING THE THIRTEENTH OF
The Galahad Lectures
HE GALAH AD LECTURES constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric History of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first forms of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into-the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atldntean and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer of 1932 and have been recorded
and preserved in this form for students of-the Foundation Fel-
loivship. C The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of Metaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in Mortality and for accurate
knowledge of the soul's enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth.
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BY PELLEY
PUBLISHERS OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA POST OFFICE BOX 2630
SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE LIBERATION
SCRIPTS ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR ijr ONE
HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE IN­
STRUCTION TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY #
"Where Man GotHis Idea of OneGod”
THIRTEENTH LECTURE
1EN WE look back over the ages, if we are
observant we note a curious and unique
thing: that man uniformly shapes his cultural
life after the nature and pattern of his re­
ligion. Too long have we made the mistake
of reversing this observation and saying that
religion is the product of man’s evolving cul­
ture. Strictly speaking, both religion and
culture are the result of great planetary in­
fluences of which we have spoken. But when
we go into a research of the various types of
cultures that have maintained on earth, we discern that they were
usually dominated by what man conceived as his relationship toward
thecelestial Force that brought him into being.
Inthe days when he believed this Force to be associated with the Great
Serpent, his life and religion were centered about Serpent Worship in
its various forms. In the days after the skies were cleared of vapor
and he perceived the naked sun, his earthly existence was patterned
around all manner of fire and solar symbolisms. Such things as hu­
man sacrifices to the God of the Sun could not help but influence
both his economic and his domestic relationships. When man
cam
e under the influence of Pisces and water became the symbol
of baptism, Christianity came to the fore. We do not need to be re­
mindedof the peculiar culture and social relationships that make mod­
ern life what it is, because of the advent of Jesus, the Great Avatai
of the Piscean House, known in early church cryptography as the
Great Fish.
B ut tracing back over the years and putting the microscope on variou.
religions, w e observe a pattern that is common to all of them. W
find that there is a m ore or less form al process through which each
g o es; that there is a definite program of development and decline that
is as unerring as the program of the year’s four seasons.
In nearly every case w e find that the religion has started out with a
new aspect of truth behind i t ; or rather at a given time man has seized
upon a cosmic fact of particular potency to him, cherished it and culti­
vated it in his spiritual thinking, and for a period crystallized it in
w hat w e term a theology. M ayhap, this truth assuaged a spiritual
hunger w hich had afflicted m an in his evolution back toward the God­
head and, as such, m ankind has em braced it. This truth may have
been “discovered” or brought to light by some fanatic or prophet, or
m erely an ascetic thinker w ho has probed into the eternal verities until
he has brought forth a tenet of particular value to man’s needs of the
m om ent. ^
T is a fact w orthy of m uch consideration, however, that
few of these fanatics, prophets or ascetics have personal­
ly founded the religions that grew upon the truths which
they brought to the attention of their fellow men. Great
avatars or lesser avatars, each time they came to earth
they m erely exemplified or amplified their principles,
which m otivated or influenced m en’s lives for generations thereafter.
G athering little groups of kindred spirits about them—or men and
w om en who had come into life at about the same time as themselves to
do the prom otional or m issionary w ork— they taught these “disciples,
w ho in turn served to m ultiply the efforts of their teachers in mak­
ing converts.
The disciples came in contact w ith the original teacher and uniformly
kept the pristine doctrine pure— out of love and respect for the teacher
who made it possible for his fellow m en to know it. But by the third
or fourth generation those w ho succeeded the disciples, having no
contact w ith the original teacher and com ing under worldly influences
to an indefensible degree, began to reduce the teacher’s precepts toa
sort of formalism. Soon we find them giving more attention to the
form of the message than to its spiritual essence. They have been
increasingly affected by the possibilities for tem poral power that have
crowded in upon them . T hey have bowed less and less to the beauty
and significance of the original illum ination. It has become stereo-
4
typed-
-
-
-stale goods. Eventually the message Has been reduced to mere
spiritual merchandise-----dead, soulless ritual with its vitality beclouded,
emasculated, or subverted to the interpretations of theological oppor­
tunists. Thereafter came the silly hair-splitting on points of doctrine,
the necromantic pomp and ceremony that are employed to disguise
the fact that the esoteric power of the message has been lost and some­
thing to appeal solely to the senses invented to take its place, all the
inhibitions and prohibitions that render ecclesiasticism odious to thou­
sands of conscientious people.
This has been the history of religion after religion. Even in our own
tim
e, archaeologically speaking, we have seen it happen in Buddhism,
in Zoroastrianism, in Mohammedanism, in Christianity.
The formation of priesthoods has come about as a coincidental func­
tioning in the rising and falling of the various theologies. Priesthoods,
as hierarchies, have come into prominence, seemingly, through the de­
sire on the part of those who have been helped spiritually by the princi­
ples of the respective theologies, to recompense someone for the bene­
fits received.
5
COMPENSATION being a fundamental law of the uni.
verse, men have hated to be in one another’s debt, not to
mention spiritual debt to the Almighty. Realizing that
spiritual profit has come to them, they have sensed that
unless they made recompense there was an equation
unfulfilled in their lives, or they were out of balance.
Seeking to establish that balance, they have turned to various kindsof
material offerings, depleting themselves of worldly goods or chattels
that the equilibrium might be established and maintained.
This fundamental trait in human nature supplies exactly the oppor­
tunity needed by megalomaniacal persons, or those of snobbish or vo­
racious natures, to advance themselves in the estimates of their fel­
lows by utilizing such wealth or chattels for their own aggrandize­
ment or the aggrandizement of their class, on the excuse that they
are divinely appointed custodians of such goods and chattels, without
any other authority for it than their own “say-so.
Man, being mortal-minded, balancing all equations by the approved
worldly methods, expresses his gratitude for spiritual enhancements
in the form of property gifts, or he seeks absolution for his spiritual
deficiencies by flattering the god he worships with various types of
materialistic endowments on institutions that are supposed to be di­
rectly under the deity’s patronage. He cannot bestow material wealth
on the principle which the god represents, so he bestows it upon those
who affect to represent the principle on earth by preaching it. It is
all a purely mortal transaction expressed in worldly terms, although
spiritual in essence.
The “ownership,” direction, or employment, of those chattels or
properties so bestowed—really in gratitude toward the god who sent
the illumination—gradually became more than those who represented
the god on earth could withstand, as a potential force for temporal
power. Thus we begin to perceive the rise of priestly hierarchies
whose main object was to conserve and preserve those compensatory
assets. In the exact ratio that this wealth of property grew in extent
and became greater than the wealth of contemporary monarchs, those
earthly men who had control or custody of it in the name of the deity
gained a false idea of their own importance. They forgot that such
wealth was really meant for the one who originally projected the
illumination, and in their arrogance and bombast they stalked the role
in earthly affairs which men had desired in their hearts that the original
avatar should fill. The hierarchy as a substitute was accepted ina
6
later day because the original teacher was no longer available.
£ven far back in the Atlantean civilization those theological bier-
archies grew in wealth and influence until the priesthood became a
recognized social unit. In every age and clime this strange unit in
society has built its affluence on avowed special intimacies of contact
with life’s higher realms. As these claims became more and more
extravagant, requiring much worldly acumen to maintain, the priest­
hoodbecame a priestcraft. W hen all spiritual essence was lost from
the message of a given theology, and worldly organization had de­
teriorated to the purely political expedient in the temporal way, this
priestcraft went one step further and became priest-graft. Fastening
itself and its bombastic claims on the body politic, mulcting adherents
oflarge sums to maintain its own political structure, threatening and
cajoling, terrifying and dominating, it has periodically prostituted pub­
licconfidence in its divine contacts to a point where reform was in­
evitable. Ijr Jy
Apriesthood originally projected to serve, became a priestcraft that
zealously held heavenly assets in custody for its own perpetuation
and the greater the assets the more zealously did they have to be
guarded. Ritualism and formalism always result when a priesthood
isso occupied in perpetuating itself or preserving its temporal assets
that spiritual objectives take second place in its philosophy.
It seems therefore to be an automatic and inexorable process that
mankind should go periodically through theological house-cleanings
andreform movements. The very success of a religion makes it nec­
essary, for a successful religion means a wealthy hierarchy, from the
workings of the compensatory cosmic law, and a wealthy hierarchy
meansa priestly group that will fight to the death to preserve the struc­
turethat its wealth has crystallized.
7
N the case of the last great religion which ha*
our modern culture, meaning of course the n S
religion, we first had the Messiah appearing on t S
man scene with a message of which the times st ^
need. It was not a new message He preached. AsSt°p*
wrote: “This is no new doctrine that we preachIj
you: it hath been preached from the Beginning.” Jesus was, jnotL
words, projecting a reform movement in a theology that was aW
age from the old Egyptian-Atlantean religion of Baal. Appearing
Judea and facing the Sadducees, He made the same sort of rad
ical
revolutionary effort to revive the lost spiritual power that Luther
made in formalized Christianity several centuries later. It w
asthe
old, old reform process appearing in a new guise. And so will itever
be, undoubtedly, so long as man has need of religions to expressa
n
objective spiritually, or rather, to express his spiritual side objectively,
€][ By the same token, it is becoming evident that there is nowneedfor
another turn of the wheel, or a new reform movement even w
ithin
the Reformation of Luther. That may well be the significance of
the psychical illuminations arriving at the present time through a
thousand sensitives who feel it their bounden obligation to dissem
inate
the truths they are getting, as widely and effectively as possible. L
et
us not ignore the fact that we are not the only sensitives who arere­
ceiving transcendent clairaudient material. These reformatory truths
are not peculiar to us. Thousands are getting them, I say, as theneed
arises. We might put it that we are merely coming into realization
of a new priesthood, concerned with a new order of exemplification
of the eternal verities. Undoubtedly it will rise to terrific affluence
in the Aquarian age that is ahead of us. It is equally as certain that
on the heels of its success will come ultimately a deterioration of its
spiritual essences. The history of the race, especially in its spiritual
evolution, is a long series of reformations and renaissances. All of
which is as it should be.
All of which is as it should be, I repeat, because the true objective of
all this evolution is not the gaining of a position in Space, nor yet a
certain cultural standard for all men to embrace. The purpose of it
is to instil spiritual realizations and cognizances m man s consciousness
as he goes along. Nothing is ever lost. The repetition of the lessons
that accrue to man, generation on generation and cycle on cycle add
something to his soul culture esoterically. The increment is always
personal, though socially exhibited. Man’s body may perish. His
Jture may become legend and myth. Mountaintops from which he
matched a thousand sunsets may drop from sight beneath vistas of
\\d & ^ « . < . i • • • - » i i 1 1 • -_i____ - i i
cu
water-
hi*1
But into his spirit he has absorbed experiences that enable
to discriminate between the good and the bad, between the con-
uctive anc^ *be destructive, between the temporal and the eternal.
A
geach culture rises and falls, or is reformed by the preachings of doc-
•ncSin new guises, man knows, deep within his individual spirit, that
hich has been of lasting profit to him, and retains it accordingly.
RIESTHOOD, priestcraft and priest-graft have never
been exemplified more patently than in the religions of
Atlantis, which were the concretions of the religions of
Lemuria and Maya, and that spread into the Mediter­
ranean Basin, across Egypt and up into Babylon.
Men first began to think of God the Creator as a power
higher than themselves by observing the fructifying forces in Nature,
either in the world about them or within their own bodies. They first
symbolized this observation by the Good Serpent, or Spirit of the
Deep on High, which they could observe with their physical eyes.
They knew from personal experience that height of position gave
power to see and know all which went on below; they had only to
clim
b to a mountaintop to become aware of this. Therefore an all-
seeing, all-knowing Creator, by the very nature of His manifestations,
must be above them in the matter of altitude. Turning their eyes up­
ward they saw this mammoth, animated, carbonaceous Serpent writh­
ingwithin the branches of the Tree of Knowledge. W hat could it be
but the all-wise, all-provident Spirit that was thus identified because of
itsposition?
W
hen the water canopy fell and the Good Serpent disappeared, men
sawthe fructifying sun behind it and altered their symbolizations of
Deity to all sorts of solar and stellar cryptograms. We do not know
howmany reformation movements came and went in the long flight of
tim
e that encompassed the rise and fall of the various Lemurian and
Atlantean religious cultures. The number is not important. But ritual­
ismalways resulted when a priesthood became a priestcraft and un­
dertook to perpetuate its power by reserving to itself the meanings
ofthe higher esoteric values which each religion was projected to ex­
press. ijr
Such ritualism in turn required signs and symbols to keep the inner
truths from the worshiping masses while at the same time preserving
9
them for the favored hierarchy. If the worshiping masses knew or
learned in plain language what the hierarchy knew, they would no
longer be worshipful. The priestly power would thereby perish.
Elaborate ceremonials, cryptic diagrams, the various kinds of im
ag-
eries which men mistakenly term idolatries, all these were requisite
in the exact ratio that a priestly craft arose in its arrogance and said;
“That which we know is peculiar to ourselves because we are a trifle
better than those who compose the common herd; we are closer to
the D eity; we are chosen people of whom it will pay you to stand in
awe,” That claim was advanced hundreds of thousands of years be­
fore our fellow mortals, the Israelites, made a racial slogan out of it.
Every priesthood has preached it to those who were spiritually hungry
enough to expect that God would send them food and who took the
substitute which was available at the hands of men who kept a monop­
oly on it by holding the keys to the divine storehouse of knowledge.
Expressing it in ceremonials, rituals and imageries, these in time be­
came the essence of the service of the priesthood in the popular con­
ception. Religion was empty and arid of true spiritual expression.
W hen we get into true economic research, we find that the religionof
every people has usually dictated the nature of its political structure,
and that the political structure has dictated the nature of its industrial
or commercial life. Because this is true, there has been either affinity
or conflict between the priesthood of a nation or a race and its political
or economic rulership. The whole stream of history has been one
mighty conflict of priesthood with kingcraft or merchant-prince
hierarchy. 1?
W e know that in ancient Lemuria and Atlantis the original king idea
came from a pure priesthood that ruled the unenlightened masses by
possessing and practicing a psychic knowledge to which the masses
could never attain because of their immature spiritual development.
As time went on, however, and the original adepts left mortality, this
priesthood degenerated to the outward display of the psychic powers
of the original masters without their vitality and effectiveness. The
knowledge of the control of mind over matter died among those m
ore
concerned with temporal advantage than spiritual accomplishment.
Immediately a line of priestly imitators arose and usurped the authori­
ty of the original adepts. Then a class of strictly worldly men, the
political and commercial opportunists, or mayhap representatives of
the warrior clans, saw how easy it was to challenge the priestly pow­
ers and set up governmental structures based on armed force. There
10
r
beingno real authority in existence to halt this sort of thing, a strictly
worldly contest was precipitated in which the stronger made good
theirclaims to rulership. A disillusioned populace had to bow to this
kingship of might.
From all that we can now ascertain, uniformly when a line of kings
possessed of true spiritual and psychic powers— including the same
control of m in d over matter which our Elder Brother exhibited— took
direction of human affairs and held it by their adeptship, they proceed­
ed to set up governmental machinery that disclosed what could be ac­
complished for human betterment when it was premised on true
social service, or the greatest good for the greatest number. There
are records in many of the Thibetan monasteries that purport to pre­
serve the genealogies of the Atlantean royal houses back over a period
of 300,000 years. Today we have no royal house that is over 600
years old. That is because our royal houses were instigated by purely
m
ortal men relying on ordinary mortal powers, or the numbers of
soldiery that they could threaten or cajole into supporting a given
line of rulers. How could an Atlantean royal house have preserved
its 300,000 year existence, human nature bepig what it is, except by
the exercise of supernormal attributes ?
n
OW CONSIDERING ritualism, or religious legalism, f0
r
that which it is, we confront a vicious circumstance. A
s
each priesthood aspired to greater and greater influence
it was correspondingly necessary for those over whom it
wished to exercise authority, to sink deeper and deeper
into ignorance. A people becoming increasingly en­
lightened in divine processes and eternal verities, learns to its am
aze­
ment that God plays no favorites, that all mortal men are made o
f
the same material, that there are no snobs in eternity, and that noon
e
in physical flesh holds any monopoly on the allocation of humansouls
in the hereafter. Which m^ans in turn that the priestly power isin­
creasingly emasculated, and the fallacy of a hierarchy’s having exclu-
sive privileges in the Almighty’s presence is both proven and exposed.
To guard against this a premium must be placed on mass ignorance,o
r
the priesthood ceases to exist.
People in the main must be kept ignorant. Furthermore, that igno­
rance must be directed and controlled, not by the propounding ofdam
­
aging truth, but of things that are mysterious and awesome, that terri­
fy the immature soul with some aspect of the unknown com
m
only
called the supernatural.
The same superstitious regard and homage must be perpetually given
the priesthood that the savage in the forest feels for the exposedtree
root that trips his foot. Because it has plunged him upon his face,
the savage believes that the tree has contained a spirit pow
erful
enough to bring about his physical downfall. Therefore he is prone
to worship the Spirit of the Tree. Savage priesthoods, in all formso
f
the belief labeled Shamanism, naturally encourage this type of as­
sumption and build their personal affluence upon it. They are quick
to preach the doctrine that just as the tree has a spirit whose pow
er
has been demonstrated, so they have the power to commune withthat
spirit and appease it as necessary.
12
B
T is a trait of human nature that whatever man fails to
understand, he worships. What he truly is doing is beg­
ging exemption from injury at the instance of the un­
seen influence, or he is imploring that the unseen in­
fluence impart some of its mysterious power to the wor­
shiper that he may be like it in practical effect. Humanity
earlymade the discovery that aspiration to kingship was an exh
vanity in the individual. This vanity could be turned to profit in peti­
tioningfor favors or exemption from penalty, by certain kinds of phys­
icaladulation. Therefore the same adulation which it was so profitable
togive to the mortal monarch ought to have a similar appeasing effect
onunseen potentates even though their residences were nothing more
pretentious than trees in the forest. The effect was the same in essence.
([Ihave already made reference elsewhere to the ship’s binnacle that
was washed ashore on the South Sea island. The savages saw the
moving compass needle and quickly surmised that it must be alive
with some sort of sentient spirit. They carried it reverently inland
andproceeded to build a roof and walls about the altar on which they
laid it. They worshiped it blindly because they did not know the
magnetic principle activating the needle. And yet at the present
time there are infinitely greater compasses in the hands of people who
arefalling down blindly and worshiping that which should be to them
objects of research and investigation that they might learn their value
in charting the seas of Eternity. They laugh in “superior” wisdom
at the ignorance of those island savages in worshiping an old ship’s
binnacle. But Sunday after Sunday they perform the same type of
adulation before compass-epitomizations that have come drifting to
humankind from across seas of time— remnants of theological wrecks
first launched in Lemuria and Atlantis.
Referring to ritualism again, however, as the expedient of a priestcraft
intent on preserving its power through studiously keeping the masses
in ignorance, we first find images and pictures used to instil in the
m
inds of the common people, belief in the Almighty’s preference for
thehierarchy as against the masses. No attempt was made to educate
thosemasses so that they might decipher sacred writings for themselves
anddrawtheir own spiritual conclusions. Learning in the modern sense
w
as strictly a prerogative of the priests. Thereby were they priests.
The censorship on popular knowledge, or sacred information, by the
RomanChurch today, is no new thing. Romanism is but the survival
of the ancient religion of Baal which had its origin in Atlantis, al­
13
though in the days of the latter’s decadence. Probing ^
hind ritual in any given instance, however, or investigating the
beginning of symbols, we uniformly stumble upon some interesting
items. 1 grant you that the feeling of divine communion—the
hum an atonement with the divine urge behind the creation of all
things— is equally as potent and significant insofar as the individual
soul is affected, whether it come through the employment of a pic­
ture symbol or from the reading of a mighty book. If the individual
gets the message and thence the spiritual inspiration, the end is
achieved. The main trouble with symbols and rituals, however, isthat
they are not always correctly interpreted, or are not all interpreted
alike: frequently there will be as many interpretations after a period
of time has elapsed as there have been interpreters. And this is not
possible in a finely alliterated book or manuscript where the m
ean­
ings are not debatable.
The history of the world has page after page smeared red with blood,
caused by conflicts which arose from opinions as to the meanings of
such symbols. Witness what might happen today, for instance, if 1
called the attention of conscientious Romanists to the fact that the
Pope’s mitre is derived from the horned helmet of the old priests of
Baal, now emasculated by substituting for the horns, two pointed flaps
sealed at the top with a jewel, and turned sideways. I would be guilty
of a type of lese majesty that might have serious results, to say that
the Roman priest goes into the holy Christian communion, or m
ass,
with his head clad in the bovine armament of an Atlantean bull, from
the days when the bull was the emblem of fertility in species. Y
et
such is that symbolism.
Y the same token practically every formalism, ceremony
and bit of ritualism in the so-called Christian church, are
inherited from days of paganism, as Christians know
paganism. Take such a symbolism as “washed in the
blood of the lamb.** Millions use the phrase, not know­
ing that it harks back to a rite practiced in a time when
men believed that being drenched physically in the gore of a given
beast imparted the qualities of that beast to the bather. A scaffolding or
platform was constructed high enough for the candidate for the sacra­
ment to stand beneath it. W hereupon the wanted beast was led upon
the top of the platform and its throat slit. As the blood of the beast
spurted down between the planks of the flooring the devotee was sup­
posedto be benefited. In the days of humanity under the Sign of T aur­
us,when blood was the symbol of baptism, the animal thus slaughtered
was usually a bull. Its gore was supposed to impart the qualities of
biological ferocity and stamina to its recipient. Being “washed in the
blood of the lamb’* therefore implied the same pagan belief in the
efficacy of beast blood, but imparting the lamb’s innocence and docili­
ty. Even Christian theology is a mumble-jumble of the Shamanistic
concepts of the early ages.
It may be argued, W hat difference does it make in m an’s pure living?
In fact, it truly makes no difference. And that is just the point of a
very high spiritual illumination. The “ever looking higher,** is the
sumand substance and the essence of the whole mortal religious ex­
perience, not letting the gaze rest upon a geometrical point in so-
called human progress and then stopping!
Over and over again, up through the ages, God has tried to teach
the human race to look higher. Evolutionary processes of Nature
have commanded that men do it. First m an’s Serpent-God failed
him, being disintegrated by telluric precipitation. Then beyond that
which the Serpent hid was the glorious sun, bisected by a fiery cross.
As the water rings fanned out in canopies over the north and south
temperate zones, to finally fall at the poles, men became cognizant
that even beyond that shining orb was something still vaster and more
awesome. The sun was a liquid planet, nothing more. But w hat,
or who, had brought the liquid planet into being? Men looked still
higher, even beyond the sun. And in the naked heavens they saw
thestars and constellations, not to mention the planets spinning upon
their appointed tracks. They said: “The spirits of the stars caused
these things,” because new worlds seemed to be m anufactured out
15
of old stars. And they called those stellar spirits Elohim, which'
translated “the Lord-God” for us in the King James version of th
Bible. ±jr
And yet in that ancient day it was possible for mankind to perceive
that the spirits of the stars, or Elohim, were really one spirit, because
all of the heavenly bodies followed definitely prescribed courses. T
hey
did not go joy-riding around the heavens on any old orbits that hap­
pened to please their fancies, contributing periodically to celestial fire­
works. Although collisions of heavenly bodies did sometimes occur,
in the main there was law and order in this program of the firm
am
ent.
Man found that he could rely on certain patterns which those heavenly
bodies were tracing in the infinite. So he said in logic: “There isa
co-ordinating Principle here. Among all these stellar spirits thusm
an­
ifesting, he saw law and order. Law and order are always the prod­
ucts of a single mind, or many minds expressing a single idea—w
hich
amounts to the same thing. Therefore behind the whole galaxyo
f
heavenly manifestation there must be but one activating spirit.”
In that moment the One God was born in man’s reasoning!
Voltaire was therefore quite correct when he declared that if Godd
id
not exist, it would be necessary to create Him. The unified principle
expressed in the cleared or clearing heavens projected m
onotheism
.
16
AN had already learned that in his mortal contacts many
minds made for contributions to confusions. He could
not accept that self-expressing spirits could so agree on a
principle that they would permit the uniformity of action
which the heavenly bodies showed. So he said: “There
must be One Brain behind it all. Experience has shown
us that even two brains mean differences of opinion as to how a given
system should be conducted.” Later he invented the devil from ex­
actly the same reasonings. If evil exhibited on earth, it must be the
effect of heavenly dissension of some sort. W hat more patent cause
for it than that someone or something was balking God in his One-
brain Precision of mandate over the universe?
Apparently between mortal lives the men of those ancient periods
did not advance far enough into the macrocosm, or were not strong
enough spiritually to bring back an accurate knowledge of the heaven­
lyprocesses in their earthly revisitations. Nevertheless, they displayed
the powers of cumulative reasoning. A fter observation they deduced
that there was such a thing as each unit of creative force’s having its
"spirit”; but the movements of the planets in their orbits postulated
theOne Guiding Intelligence, and so there came into human thinking
theidea of One God, supreme over all other gods.
Don’t let anyone persuade you that the ancient religions of Lemuria,
Atlantis and Egypt were necessarily polytheistic. The religions of
Lemuria, Atlantis and Egypt, after man looked into unobstructed
heavens, were monotheistic. The idea of many gods came from “the
spirits of evolving processes.”
Go into the Egyptian Room in the New York Metropolitan Museum
of Fine Arts and you will see a thousand prototypes of theological
conceptions which the guides will tell you were “worshiped” by the
Egyptians. Any sort of symbolism or image with a queer looking
headupon its shoulders was necessarily some sort of a god. You may
havepointed out to you a hybrid human figure with the head of a dog
or a fox. You will be told: “This was the God of the Rising W at­
ers.” And when your children come to you for a bed-time story, re­
membering your trip to the museum you will perhaps “instruct” them:
The Egyptians were pagans. They did not know our God. They
worshiped queer conceptions of beings with combinations of human
andanimalistic members.”
W
e have a weird propensity in this country for taking morons and
making them guides in museums. The Dog-Man “deity” of the
17
ancient Egyptians is a case in point. The Dog-Man representation
was never a deity. The Atlanteans had not been settled in Old Nik,
over many seasons before they observed that when certain winds blew
the Nile started to overflow. They made the discovery that this blow
-
ing of the wind and the rising of the waters were contemporaneous
with the rising of Sirius over the horizon. The seers of those far-off
times were not soothsayers who looked into a bowl of glass and saw
their own clairvoyant thought forms. They looked into the great
dome of spiritual illumination over their heads, and they saw Sirius
coming up over the horizon at the same time that floods were aboutto
be visited on the land. W hat more natural deduction, after a few
years of such observations and experiences, than to await the appear­
ance of Sirius and thereby gauge the proximity of the flood season?
Their next step was to use the star’s appearance to warn the com
m
on
folk of the approaching inundation. To do this, they hit on the ex­
pedient of hanging out placards in the public places. But for a popu­
lace that could not read, pictures must be used, exactly as the sign­
boards above old English inns designated by crude pictures the nam
es
of those hostelries. By the same token, I say, the Egyptian priest-
authorities hung out portrayals announcing the rise of the waters and
the necessity of adequate preparation for them—a sort of pictorial
steam whistle. But wanting the proper picture to convey the an­
nouncement, they asked themselves: “What symbol in earthly life
epitomizes the giving of an alarm?’’ Quickly the answer was forth­
coming : “The dog !’* To show that this dog had the human connota­
tion, the canine head was drawn upon the man’s body. The m
ere
picture of a dog on the street cards would mean very little. Thew
arn­
ing was therefore portrayed as a human figure possessed of the dog’
s
face and cranium. That is why Sirius is called the Dog Star to th
is
day. And now, in a modern American Museum, a $32-a-week
“guide’’will declare with a wave of his hairy paw: “The pagan Egyp­
tians worshiped these Dog-Men!’’ And our progeny, not to m
ention
ourselves, will depart those museums believing it.
In a hundred other aspects, ignorance of small social customs and I
rites has driven us into a wholly erroneous concept of ancient religions
and given us a distorted picture of that which was the very founda- I
tion and fundamental of our own.
18
E ARE told that once long ago there came a deluge to this
earth. Millions of people perished miserably. But go­
ing into secular accounts of that deluge, we know there
must have been geological reasons for it. The popular
explanation has been, however, that the races of men
became so wicked that they had to be destroyed. The
Bible says so. Esoteric students concur. But the true scholar, prob­
ingafter real enlightenment, reasons thus: “Let’s do a little thinking,
backward. If a flood came that was supposed to destroy current civil­
izations because of their wickedness, then the wickedness of that gen­
eration must have been of a peculiar order, much worse than today.
N
oone accepts that people of the present are wicked enough to w ar­
rant wholesale destruction. Greater wickedness than ours, therefore,
must have indicated a higher degree of civilization. If there has been
a higher degree of civilization to be subverted, then there must have
existed a greater spiritual wisdom— or vision— by which to measure
it, either constructively or destructively.”
The argument, of course, is childish, and yet it contains a germ of
truth. The professional mind will be apt to discredit it, however, be­
cause man will not admit, even from the evidences available, that
therehas ever been a degree of civilization surpassing that of the pres-
Jent. His anthropological sources narrate to his satisfaction that far,
far back at the dawn of history certain races of men came out of sav-
agery, leaving relics of their crude culture to be dug up centuries later
frombeneath deep strata to identify the period of their existence. The
argument is advanced that they came up through the Egyptian and
Babylonian cultures, into the Grecian and Roman. From the Rom an
came the European, from which we get our culture of today.
19
HE true student of Cosmology, not to mention Ethnology
may be prone to ask some annoying questions, however
For instance: “If culture developed directly from that
of the crude Laurentian Man into that of the Egyptian
how comes it that there are no traces of any savage
period in all of northern Africa?
No matter where we pick up the story of the Egyptian peoples, w
e
find them far advanced in all of the arts and sciences—arts andsciences
that took tens of thousands of years to develop. The domestication
of animals, for instance, is a point too little understood. The dom
es­
tication of the dog, the sheep, the horse, was never accomplished ina
day. Evolutionary forms account for vast periods of time, andsod
o
animalistic temperaments. Such an article of diet as common w
heat,
postulates tens of thousands of years for its development fromw
ild
grain. Dental work has been found on mummies in Egyptian tom
bs
equal to if not surpassing the dental work that is being done today.
Skulls have been found showing expert trepanning, indicating ahigh
degree of surgical skill. Both must have required the perfection o
f
metals for tools equalling or surpassing our steels of the present. T
hese
are but indications of the fallacy of believing that we are the acm
e
of any civilizations that have maintained upon this globe.
If there are no traces of savagery in Egypt, and her civilization w
hen
presented to us in history, rivals our own, what of the period of u
n
-
foldment? Where did it occur, and when? Did it spring full-grow
n
into being, like Minerva from the head of Jove? Did man at once
assume a high state of culture and erudition? If it be true that there
was no period of barbarism in Egypt, is it not more logical to assum
e
that her civilization was antedated by a mother civilization? Yetw
here
did even the mother civilization come from, and where was it evolved?
Did it come from America? We have to admit that, geologicallyat­
tested, most of North America at that time was under water. D
idit
come from South America or Central America?
When the Spaniards first came to Yucatan they found a people alm
ost
as advanced in their own peculiar culture as the Spaniards in theirs.
Could great Egypt have been antedated by a little colony on theoppo­
site side of the earth ? Certainly it could not have come from E
urope,
for most of that continent was under the glacial ice blanket.
Asia ? China ? Is there any connection between their cultures an
d
that of Egypt?
And yet Egyptian culture could not have sprung full-blown fromth
e
20
sands of the desert nor could it have come up elevator-fashion from
subterranean regions. Nevertheless, it is there to bedevil us.
|f it was not evolved out of its own barbarous period, where did it
come from?
OUR professor of the old school is stumped. If he is hon­
est, he declares: “I don’t know ,” and the rising genera­
tion is left in ignorance of the facts and of the trem en­
dous debt which we owe to the past. He refuses to admit
astronomical, geological and philological facts. W hy?
Because the great institutions that affect to sponsor mod­
ern learning are supported by endowments that in turn pay the salaries
of such professors. Those endowments come from wealthy men who
donot want certain things concerning the past investigated too closely.
The Chosen People hoax, for instance, might be exposed, and modern
men might take a different attitude toward the fantastic claims of the
Hebrews in current civilization. Or the baptismal paganism of the Ro­
man Church might stand forth as the arid idolatry of a past religious
cycle which it is. The Chosen People among us, and the Roman
Church, are “existing institutions” which must not be threatened, or
pulled down, except at the peril of all civilizations. Or if our colleges
are not fearful of repercussions from wealthy Jews or Catholics, they
are timorous about incurring the displeasure of affluent Protestant
Fundamentalists, i f i f
Vaguely the fear manifests that even the beginnings of Christianity
must not be inquired into too closely. There may be something in the
claims of orthodoxy that stand to be imperiled by dispassionate in­
vestigation of the facts. Everything must at all costs be maintained
inthe status quo. At any rate, to bring to light evidence or hypotheses
that sweep the veil aside from the past, is displeasing to the standpat­
ters in academic education who want their little private conspiracies
preserved in their illusions at any cost. Certain ideas about biological
and cultural origins have gotten into the mass thinking of races, have
been generally accepted, and must be kept there, at any cost to truth.
So the professor is told to teach what men in general accept, or be
calledbefore his faculty, reprimanded, and dismissed. Subconsciously
he averts all this by discounting any counterclaims to that which is
generally accepted. Pinned down to the holes in his childish hypothe­
sis, he responds: “I don’t know.”
But why doesn’t he know? He is paid to know. There are some stu-
21
dents who demand that he shall know, and if he doesn’t give them the
truth, they pardonably exhibit a sort of toleration of his educational
adolescence. They w ant no padlock on their mental facilities. They
delve elsewhere for real education, and now and then they find it.
Researching and investigating freely and logically, a great mass of in­
form ation comes to light, corroborated geologically, philologically and
ethnologically, and corroborated by the movements of races and na­
tionals about the earth and their known allocations or the traces of
languages which they have left behind them, and which exist at the
present m om ent to definitely place the missing parts of the great cul­
tural equation.
HE real .mother of civilization was the civilization of At­
lantis, as we shall see in succeeding Lectures. But ifw
e
brought Atlantis back into existence in the popular mind,
so that it figured as a definite factor in historical thinking,
both sacred and profane professors would have to reverse
their positions on teachings of many hundreds of years.
It might mean the revamping of the entire Christian drama, as well as
the reconstruction of the social background built on the “we-are-now-
the-greatest-people-who-have-ever-been-on-earth” philosophy.
Keeping always in mind, therefore, that monotheism in religion isno
new principle, and that it did not originate with Moses any more than
religion itself originated with Moses, suppose we begin to pry into the
first forms of cultural civilization as they evince themselves to the
geologist and archaeologist in old Lemuria and Atlantis.
'22
