{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1842__fleming___synopsis_of_the_evidences_of_the_second_coming.pdf","mytitle":"Synopsis Of The Evidences Of The Second Coming","mylang":"de"}
LZ
0 A
SYNOPSIS OF THE EVIDENCES
0| Tl!
SECOND COMING OF CHRIST,
ABOUT A. D. 1848.
BY L. D. _;~jLEM1NG.
_>
Behold, he cometh with cloudn, and ovary eye :lull Bl hlm.
rnmn
zmrxol, nzvlsu un IILLIGID.
- 1_....._
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY JOSHUA V. HIMZES,
14 Devonshire Street.
1842.
l0lTON=
DOW hJACKSON'B POWER PRESS.
I4 Devonshire Bunn.
PREFACE
T0 TBI TBIBD IDITIOH-
lx presenting to the public this edition of the Midnight
Cry, I take pleasure in saying, that I consider it a valuable
and important auxiliary in the great work of awakening
the world to its danger. Two editions of the work have
already been circulated, and to great advantage to the
cause of the propagation of this doctrine. And we doubt
not that in the great day our beloved Brother Fleming
will ind many jewels in the 1lIaster's crown as the fruit
of this little work.
A
JOSIAH LITCH.
Boston, Mmcn 11th, 1842.
PREFACE
to 'rut lloonn znlrroxl.
,
Tun irst edition of this little work being exhausted, and
a demand for it still existing, have induced me to issue a
second edition, in which I have given two additional chap-
ters, one on the Pre-Millennial Advent of Christ, and one on
the Kingdom of Christ. I have also somewhat enlarged on
the signs of the times. It is an objection urged by many
against the doctrine of the near approach oi' the Savior,
that a thousand years of peace and prosperity, called the
millennium, must precede the Second Advent of our Lord,
preparatory to his coming. I have shown,I think, con-
clusively, that we are not authorized from the Scriptures,
to expect any such millennium to precede the second ap-
pearing of the Savior. I have, at least, endeavored to Call
the inquiring to a serious examination of the word of God
on this point.
The only apology] oder, for presenting to the public
another edition of this work, is the unutterable importance
of the subject, and the too general apathy existing in the
church in reference to it. That it may prove a successful
"
midnight cry
"
to many, and subserve the best interests of
the church, is my humble prayer.
L. D. FLEMING.
Nlwnx, N. J., JULY, 1841.
J
INTRODUCTION.
1 .
Tn Second Coming of our blessed Lord is a subject
that has excited some controversy, and of late, especially,
much inquiry. It is certainly a subject ofthrilling interest,
and of vast imponance. Who can think of that awful
and glorious event, as described by the inspired penmen,
relying on their testimony, and not be moved? It was
evidently a theme of so much moment in their estimation,
as to lead them to make it alrind of nucleus, or focal
point, to which all their testimony was made to centre.
Nay, rather, such was the estimation in which it was held
by the Holy Spirit. I ask, then, is it s subject about
which we are justiiiable in cherishing indifference? Most
assuredly not. It is an event which evangelical Christians
are looking for to transpire, at some future period; and
very many are expecting it at no very distant period.
I believe I am correct in saying that it is a general im-
pression among the discerning, that some important event
is at the door. Some great change is expected soon. A
late English writer, speaking of this subject, says:
°'
Amongst the students of prophecy, there is a universal
agreement in this one point, however they may differ `in
1=ll=
`
vi urntonucnon.
'
others, that we an now living under the innuence of the
sixth vial, waiting daily for the pouring out of the seventh,
which is to consummate the wrath of God, and bring his
indignation to an end. And no one that hears me is igno-
rant how every politician and statesman, and among others
the man* who attracts most eyes at present, continually
declare that the next war which breaketh out will convulse
Europe to its centre, and prove, like no other war that
has been before it, a war, not of offence or of defence, but
a wasting and oonvulsing war of opinion., All observers,
prophetical, spiritual, and political, do thus consent and
agree, with one accord, that the present is a pause of
preparation, filled up with the utmost activity; and that
we stand upon the eve of a last and awful struggle for the
ancient things, a struggle which wisdom may postpone,
but which no earthly power can prevent."
»Whence arises this impression? If there is something
in prophecy, and in the signs of the times, calculated to
give such an impression and such an expectation, may
we not, from the same sources, judge of the character of the
events that are to befall the world? "We have a. sure
word of prophecy, whereunto we do well that we take heed,
as unto alight that shineth in a dark place."
"
To the law
and to the testimony; if they speak not according to this
word, it is because there is no light in them;"
¢'1'|mlat¢Mr.G|nnlu|. Thln|un.ldhyhlmlnPullsmmt,lh»
primaminlmr.
mnonuormmt. 'vit
lany distinguished students afpruphecy havecons to
'very similar conclusions, as it regards time, (in reference
to the commencement of the Millennium, or Second
Coming of Christ,) as will be found in the following pages.
There is, however, a diference of opinion as it regards
the character of the event.
'
It may be asked, What is the practical benefit of promul-
gating this doctrine ? I answer, in the words ot' a. writer in
the "Congregationalist :"--"I speak advisedly when I say,
that no portion of the
church is so adorned with the graces
of God's Spirit as that which loolrs for the appearing of
the Lord Jesus Christ. And shall not this, added to the
testimony of the primitive church, the reformers, and the
lnnuy in subsequent ages, most eminent for learning and
piety, who have rejoiced in the same blessed hope, awaken
the attention of the ministers and people ol' God in this
hnd to the prophetic Scriptures? It is to disarm the
minds of my fathers and brethren in the ministry (and
of all my brethren) of the prejudices they have imbibed
from me many perversions of the doctrine by fanatical
and sensual men, that I lay before them this imperfect
sketch. And I entreat them not to reject with disgust,
and without examination, the faith of men taught by the
holy apostles, because it has been adulterated in past ages
through the cratt of Satan." My reasons
for( presenting
tothe public this little "Synopsis" ue,
viii n
nrrlonuonou.
lat. Tkevutimportaneeofthesubject. According to
the 0raclesofGod,suchaneventasthe ComingofChrist
is looked for, andwvill transpire. Consequently, we are
commanded (and especially when the signs of the times
indicate its near approach) to "look for that glorious ap-
pearing," holding ourselves in readiness, being assured that,
when it comes, itwill "come suddenly, as a thief in the
night."
2d. There are many who cannot readily avail themselves
of a. large' work on the subject, and by presenting it in this
form it is made accessible to all.
3d. It is a form practicable to be sent by mail, which
many desire, as they wish to send something on the subject
to.their friends at a distance.
These considerations, together with my full persuasion
of the importance and propriety of calling the public atten-
tion to a careful examination of the Holy Scriptures in
reference to this all-important subject, have induced me
to present this epitome of evidences to the public. My
conclusions, in reference to the propriety of this course, have
not been hastily formed. For some months my mind and
have been given more or less to this subject.
I would here take occasion to acknowledge myself in-
debted to Mr. William Miller and Mr. J. Litch for the
leading ideas in the following pages.
Mr. Miller, a few months since, gave a very full course
of lectures to the congregation of my charge, and at the
urrnonucnou. ix
nmetime made hishome at myhouse,which, together
with other circumstances, has afforded me an advantageous
opportunity of examining the subject with care and de-
liberation.
Now, to the readerl would say, look well to this matter,
lest that day overtake you as a thief. Prayerfully study
the word of God in reference to this great point. El`he cry
has gone forth,
"
Behold, the Bridegroom cometh," get ye
ready to meet him. To be prepued for such an event, can
do you no harm ; to be unprepared, would be an unutteru~
ble calamity.
"
If thou art wise, thou shouldst be wise for
thyself; but if thou scomesththou alone shalt bear it."
In oonclusion,I would say to all who may chance to
peruse/these pages, "I commend you to God, and to the
word of his grace, which is able to build you up, and °o
give you an inheritance among all them that are sancti-
he¢l;" praying that the spirit of wisdom and of asound
mind may be given to us all, to direct us into all truth.
`
, L. D. FLEMING.
Ponruxzn, Ms., .Tun 6, 1840.
1
Dg .m-U ny
Google
EVIDENCES
SECOND COMING 0F CHRIST.
CHAPTER 1.
CBBI8'l"S SECOND COMING YET T0 TAKE PLACE.
Wa evidently live in a most important era
of the world. There is almost a universal
impression, a kind of intuitive conviction, that
the times in which we live are pregnant
with awful events; that some great change
will soon take place, which will affect in
some degree the whole of the human fami-
ly. But I am sorry to be obliged to say,
there is not a
corresponding solicitude to in-
quire at the mouth, or word of the Lord,
what the nature of this great change will be.
To those who would candidly inquire, the
sure 'ward of prophecy-the Bible-presents
the necessary information. Then, "to the
law and to the testimony. If they
sxak
not according to this word, it is because ere
12 cxms'r's sscozm comme
is no light in them." In the Bible we are
taught to expect the
speedy
and glorious
coming of the Lord, an ,
in reference to it,
"We have a s1re word of prophecy, Where-
unto We do well to take heedas unto a light
that shineth in a dark place."`
The subject of Christ's Second Coming is
paramount to 'every other. Who can think
of ,that awful and glorious event, and be un-
moved? What subject has a more conspi<>
uous place in the prophecies of the Bible?
It is a theme that has fired the hearts of
heaven-taught prophets; and shall We be in-
different to its glories? Have angels de-
sired to look into it, and are we slow to exam-
ine revelation in reference to it? Come, my
brethren and friends, let us take a little time
to consult the word of God, on this superla-
tive subject.
Perhaps you will ask, what the practical
benent of this doctrine is? I answer, it is
salutary. No portion of the church is so
adorned with the graces of the S irit, as that
which looks for the appearing of the Savior
at hand. No doctrine is so successful in
breaking down sectarian prejudices,~and lead-
ing the faithful to see eye to eye. Under
its influence, denominational distinctions are
lost, and Christians of different denominations
meet, and treat each other as brothers. But,
without consuming timein preliminaries, we
will come directly to the subject.
lst: Inftlnijirstplau, Idudl-endaavm' to
Tn' T0 nn ruol. 13
dow, that the Second Advent of our Lord it
yet to lake place.
Paul tells us, that "when Christ, who is
our life, shall appear, then shall we also ap-
pear with him in glory." Again, John says,
"but we know that when he shall appear, we
shall be like him, for we shall see him as he
is." Paul further says,
"
Christ shall come to
be gloriied in his saints, and to be admired
in all them that believe 'in that day," and
"
we shall be caught up in the clouds to meet
the Lord in the air;~ and so shall we ever
be with the Lord."
I know we are taunted with, "Where is
the promise of his coming? for, since the fa-
thers fell asleep, all things continue as they
were from the beginning of the creation."
Such scoffers seem to be willingly ignorant
of the fact, that, by the word of God, the
world once being overwhelmed with water
perished; and also of the fact, that, by the
same word, the heavens and the earth which
are now, "are kept in store, reserved unto
fire against the day of judgment and
dperdition
of ungodly men." But be assure ,reader,
that "God is not slack conceming his prom-
i'~zs." But he who is to come, shall come,
and will not tarry. Therefore, "ye, belov-
ed, building up yourselves on your most
holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost, keep
yourselves in the love of God, looking for
the mercy (i. e. the glorious appearing) of
Our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life."
9
124
'
can|s1°'s sncorm colmle
Jude xx. 21. Peter, speaking of that day,
says,
"
Looking for, and hastening unto the
coming of the ay of God." 2 Peter 12.
Again; Paul says,
"
And unto them that look
for him shall he appear the second time
without sin unto salvation." Heb. ix. 28.
He again says to the Philippian brethren,
"For our conversation is in heaven; from
whence also we look for the Savior, the
Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our
vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto
his glorious body." "Then shall be brought
to pass the saying that is written, Death is
swallowed up in victory! O death, where
is
tlry sting! 0 grave, Where is thy vic-
tory." » ~
Some would have us believe, that the sec-
ond
coming
of Christ took place at the de-
struction o Jerusalem. Some, that he made
his appearance in 'Immanuel Swedenborg;
and others, that he came in the person of
Ann Lee, &»c. &»c. ButI think that We shall
find peculiarities mentioned in prophecy,
which were to attend his Second Coming,
for which nothing will be foimd to answer
that has transpired heretofore.
Those who argue that he came at the de-
struction of Jerusalem, are dependant on the
24th chap. of Matthew for what they consider
proof of it. As Jesus went out of the tem-
ple, his disciples came to him to shew him
the buildings of the tem le. "And Jesus
said to them, there shall) not be left one
vsr 'ro 'rms rucs. 15
stone upon another, that shall not be thrown
down." This prophecy was exactly fulfilled
in a little more than thirty-six years. After-
wards, as Jesus sat upon the mount of Ol-
ives, "the~disciples came to him rivately,
saying, tell us, when shall these tllings be,
and what shall be the sign of thy coming,
and of the end of the worldl" Here are
three questions asked, and our Savior an-
swered accordingly.
'
Jerusalem was de-
stroyed in the first war of any note, _after this
prophecy. But Christ speaks of wars and
rumors of wars, and then plainly declares
that "the end is not yet." The end here
_spoken oi, could not mean the destruction of
erusalem; if so, Where are the wars, éac.,
Spoken of by Christ? From the 7th to the
14th verses, he gives, in a
prophetic glance,
an
epitome of the history o the church, the
success of the gospel, &»c., and then says,
"then shall the end come." It is evident
this does not mean the overthrow of Jerusa-
lem, for if so, then he promised certain
things to his disciples which were not fulfill-
ed- Christ, then, from the 15th to the
28th verses, begins and instructs his disci-
ples in reference to their duty during the
siege of Jerusalem, and also down to the
Uornintg
of the Son of man. The very term
Son o man, evidently means a personal ap-
pearance. At the 29th verse he goes back
tlgain, and speaks of the signs which should
follow the destruction of Jerusalem, and tra-
16 cnms'r's snoopm comms
ces the subject down to the third time. He
says, "Immediately after the tribulation of
those days," &c. Tribulation of what days?
Why, the destruction of Jerusalem, of course.
Hence, the si s of the coming of the Son
of man, and iii; appearing in the clouds of
heaven with power and greatglory, and His
sending his angels with a great sound of a
trumpet to gather his elect, dw., were all to
transpire subsequently to the destruction of
Jerusalem. Thus he goes on and gives his
disciples an illustration of the end, by the
parable of the fig-tree. He then says to
them, "Verily I say unto you, this generation
shall not pass away till all these things be
fulifiluedj, h a dim 1
ere is t e su pose
`
cu ty--the o
sers' hobby. G1i)rist is evidently here s ppl;
ing of the generation of his people, antferiot,
as many will have it, about the generations
then living on the earth.; for undoubtedly a
large proportion of them did pass oil, for
this declaration was made more than thirty-
six years before the destruction of Jerusalem.
But the kingdom, or church of Christ has
never been taken from the earth, and never
will be till his Second Coming. Scripture
example affords abundant testimony to prove
that our Lord had reference _to the genera-
tion of his people. The Psalmist says, "A
seed shall serve him; it shall be counted to
the Lord for a
generation." Psalm xxii. 30.
Again he says, Ps. cii., "The children of
'
rar 'ro nn Pmcz. 11
thy servants shall continue, and their seed
shall be established before thee." Peter
also says,
"
but ye are a chosen eeNr:aA'r1oN,"
écc., (1 Peter ii, 9,) referring to the church,
or race of God's people. Now, when Christ
said, "this generation shall not pass away,"
it was equivalent to saying, this race, or the
race of my people, shall not pass away; i. e.
"the gates of hell shall not prevail against
it." (See Matthew xvi. 1.)
Some suppose that the allusion of the Sa-
vior in the above passage was to the genera-
tion who should be alive when the signs
which should just precede his Second Coming
should be manifest. Thus, "this generation,"
viz., the generation that shall see these signs,
which I have mentioned, "shall not pass
away t1ll all these things be fulfilled," till
the end come, when Jesus, who is to come,
shall come quickly, in flaming ire, taking
vengeance on the ungodly. But the former
seems to me the more correct view of the
passage.
In Matthew xxv. 31, it is said, "When the
Son'of man shall come in his glory, and
all the holy angels with him, then shall he
sit upon the throne of his glory; and before
him shall be gathered all nations," &.c. Now
this verse was not fulfilled at the destruction
of Jerusalem, for the Son of man was not
seen in the clouds, with power and great
glory; and yet it is said, "every eye shall see
him."
Wire all nations gathered before him
2
18 cxmsr's sscoun comme
at Jerusalem, and there divided, the righte-
ous from the wicked, and one part sent away
into everlasting punishment, and the other
into life etemal'!. It could not have been.
Were the elect gathered from the four Winds
of heaven there at Jerusalem, at the time of its
destruction 'l Certainly not. For those that
were there were commanded to flee to the
mountains, which, according to history, they
did. And we certainly have no account that
they disciples from other cities and provinces
were on that occasion gathered at Jerusalem.
I ask, could all the prophecies contained in
these chapters, have been fulfilled at the de-
struction of Jerusalem, and the World remain
ignorant of some of the most important
events? I answer, No. The apostle Paul,
speaking of the coming of our Lord, in lst
Thess. iv. l6, 17, says, "For the Lord him-
self shall descend from heaven with a shout,
with the voice of the archangel, and with
the trump of God; and the dead in Christ
shall rise first; then We which are alive and
remain shall be caught up together with
them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the
air; and so shall We ever be with the Lord."
Did anything of the kind trans ire at the
destruction of Jerusalem? Didp the dead
rise? and were the living changedl Were
any caught up in the clouds to meet the Lord
in the air? The apostle John was then liv-
ing, and wrote after the overthrow of Je-
rusalem; and so far from intimating that
J |
1,
'nr 'ro 'rms rmcs. 19
anything of the kind had occurred, in his
writings, he still speaks of the coming of
Christ. In Rev. i. 7, which was written
twenty-six years after the destruction of Je-
rusalem, John says, "Behold he cometh with
clouds, and every eye shall see him," doc.
He does not say, Behold he did come with
clouds, and every eye saw him. But it was
yet future :
"every eye shall see him."
But again; if the Second Coming of Christ
has taken place, there remains no ground of
hope for any who have lived since that pe-
riod; for when he should come, all his people
were to be raised and changed, and made
like their living Head, and be forever with
him. None of the present generation were
there, nor any for generations past; and, as
we have no promise of a third coming of our
Lord, there remains no
hope of salvation for
any now living. But still further: Why do
those who contend that the Second Coming
of Christ has already taken place, still ob-
serve the ordinance of the Lord's supper '!
That was only to be observed tohis Second
Coming. Hence it is said, that by it they
were to show forth the Lord's death till he
should come, and of course no longer. Their
tlqnwbservances are a nullification of their
Qwylal' nts.
nI mention another passage, that
is frequently brought by those who contend
that Christ did come at the destruction of
Jirusalem, to prove the point. Matt. xvi. 28-
I) cims'r's sxooun comm
"
Verily I say unto you, there be some stand-
ing here which shall not taste of death till
they see the Son of man coming in his king-
dom." The evangelist then goes directly on
to give an account of its fulfilment; he says,
"And after six days, Jesus taketh Peter,
James, and John his brother, and bringeth
tnem up into a high mountain apart, and
wastransigured before them." On that oc-
casion there was a signal display of the di-
vine power and glory before them, and~ an
assemblage of some of the inhabitants of
both worlds. In evidence that the transfig-
uration was a fulfilment of the above pas-
sage, I will call Peter to testify. 2 Peter i.
16-18. "For we have not followed cun-
ningly devised fables, when we made known
to you the power and coming of our Lord
Jesus Christ, but were eye-witnesses of his
majesty. For he received from God the
Father honor and glory, when there came
such a voice to him from the Excellent Glo-
ry, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am
well pleased. And this voice, which came
from heaven, we heard when we were with
him in the holy mount." This testimony
positively settles the
Wint.
The apostle says,
"
e were eye-witnesses
of his majesty." Majesty is kingly power
and glory. Christ was
transfigured, i. e.
transformed, and the glory and majesty that
will attend his Second Coming pre-re' resent-
ed or revealed to Peter, James, and John.
~V nr 'ro nn PLAGB- N
On that occasion, also, we find the represent-
atives of both Worlds there,--Moses and
Elias from heaven, and the disciples from
earth. Moses had been raised from the dead,
and stood as the re resentative of all the
righteous dead ; and Iglias had been changed,
and stood as the representative of all the liv-
ing saints. This was truly seeing the Son
of man in his kingdom and glory.
When our Lord ascendedfrom the mount
of Olives, his ascension was visible, literal,
and personal; and the angels who appeared
told the gazing disciples "
that, in the same
manner as they saw him ascending, he
should be seen dcscending;" which has never
yet taken place. But the time is comin
when he shall be seen in the "clouds 0?
heaven, with power and great glory, and
every
eye
shall see him." The foregoing is
but a raction of what might be offered to
show that the Second Coming of Christ has
not yet taken place; but let this sutlice, for
it is all-sufficient. And, my dear reader, re-
member, that just as certain as the Son of
man made his first' appearance, so certain
will he make his second.
2. The olject of C'/trisfs Second Chming.
He will come to raise the dead saints, and
change the living, and gather them to him-
scifi "As in Adam all die, so in Christ shall
all be made alive ; but every man in his own
order: Christ the first fruits, afterwards they
that are Christ's at his comme." 1 Cor. xv.
/
Q p
CBBl8T'B sitcom: comme
22, 23. Again:
"
For if we believe that Je-
sus died, and rose again, even so them also
which sleep in Jesus will.God bring with
him. For this we say unto you by the Word
of the Lord, that We which are alive, and
remain unto the coming of the Lord, shall
not revent them that are
asleep. For the
Lordp himself shall descend from heaven
with a shout, with the voice of the archan-
gel, and with thetrump of God, and the dead
in Christ shall rise first. Then we which
are alive and remain, shall be caught up to-
giher
with them in the clouds, to meet the
rd in the air: and so shall we ever be
with the Lord." 1 Thess. iv. 14-17. "
Now
we beseech you, brethren, by thb coming of
our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering
together unto him." 2 Thess. ii. 1. "Blessed
and holy is he that hath part in the first
resurrection; on such the second death shall
have no power." Rev. xx. 6. See also Psalms
1. 5; Ezekiel xxxiv. 11, 12; and 1 Cor. xv.
51-55. These are a few of the many texts
that might be brought to show what will be
the object of Christ's coming, with respect to
his people.
Another object in the coming of Christ will
be, to destroy the wicked from the earth by
fire, and to cleanse the world from the curse
of sin, and repare it for the coming down
of the New Jlerusalem from God out of heav-
en-fthe
glorious' reign of Christ with his
people. he wicked will be destroyed by
nr 'ro 'rms Pucz. 23
fire. See Deut. xxxii. 22. "For a [ire is
kindled in mine anger, and shall burn unto
the lowest hell, and shall consume the earth
with her increase, and set on fire the fotmda-
tions of the mountains." Matt. iii. 12. "
He
will gather his wheat into the garner; but he
will bum up the chaff with unquenchable
fire." Matt. xiii. 30. "Gather the tares, and
bind them in bundles to be burnt." Verse 40.
"
As therefore the tares are gathered and
burnt, so shall it be in the end of the World."
See also 2 Samuel xxii. 9, 10, 13; Psalms
xcvii. 2, 3; Isa. lxvi. 15, 16; Daniel vii. 11.
Nahum i. 5; Hab. iii. 3, 4; Malachi iv. 1,
dw. Again, 2 Thess. i. 6-9: "The Lord
Jesus shall be revealed from heaven in flam-
ing fire, taking vengeance on them who
know not God and obey not the gospel of
our Lord Jesus Christ." 2 Peter iii. 10. "But
the day of the Lord will come as a thief in
the night, in the which the heavens shall
pass away with a great noise, and the ele-
ments shall melt with fervent heat; the earth
also, and the works that are therein, shall
be burned up." See also Rev. xviii. 8. Such,
my dear reader, is the language of inspira-
tion on this subject. It will be a fearful thing
for the ungodly to fall into the hands of the
living God; for to the wicked he will be "
a
consuming fire."
`
CHAPTER II.
'run sncoun comms or cr-nusr 'ro BE rar:-
MILLENNIAL.
L
Tun the second coming of our Lord will
be personal, is a oint which to me seems so
clear, as to render it quite iumecessary to
consume time to go into the proof of it. His
ascent from the mount of Olives was
personal
and visible; and a cloud received him out of
their sight. The promise by the angel was,
that in like manner, (i. e.
personally,) he
should appear again.
My object, in the present chapter, is to
prove that the second coming of Christ is to
take place before the millennium. The pre-
vailing opinion in the Christian church is,
that this church is to triumph over all na-
tions, and be universally established ; that
the
gospel
shall be universally received, and
all sha l know the Lord from the least to the
greatest, Goo. But to this doctrine there are
insuperable barriers.
1. The prevailing view of the millennium
is
opposed
to the analogy of faith. Contrast
the ife and
sufl`er;pRgs
of our Lord, who lived
an example in s
ering, as well as moral
excellence-I say, contrast it with the cloud-
less journey which many of the church now
anticipate through the millennial reign. The
apostle says,
"
If we have suffered with him,
ra an rn-mu,r.sNm.u.. 25
we shall also be glorified together
"'
but mod-.
em millenarians say, "We shall not suffer
in the millennia] state, and yet We shall be
glorified with Christ." Can we rei with
him with Whom We have not suferedirl Can
we attain immortal glory, and not go the
way our Lord bade? Such are thieves and
robbers. He suffered, leaving us an exam-
ple that we should suffer. Faith follows the
Savior through tribulation to the cross; but
modern notions teach, that for a Whole mil-
lennium, a thousand ears, we shall sail
along on flowery beds olyease, Without a
trial,
a conflict, a
piercing thorn, or a
temptation.
How unlike the Way our Lord went! Is the
servant_above his Lord? He was
tempted,
afflicted, des ised, buffeted, and put to an
ignominious d)eath-shall his servants be ex-
empt from all this?
2. It is opposed to faith. Faith is a holy
reliance on the divine promises; hence it
waits the coming of the Lord; it endures, as
seeing him who is invisible; it climbs the
ladder Jacob saw. We walk by faith, not
by sight. Now, of what possible use can
faith be in the millennium? It will be swal-
lowed up in vision. There will be no ene-
mies there. What! shall We want the shield
of faith when every foe is vanquished? As
necessary would it be to go in the warrior's
pancaply
to mingle in the domestic circle of
the earest friends. "The trial of our faith
ist more precious than that of gold." Will
3
26 .
cmus'r's sitcom: comme
there be trials in the`mi1lennium'! A word
to the wise is
slglficient. 1 Th
3.Itiso os tothegose. e sl
was designgs and adapted an a life ofggiglas
and conflicts, and not to a millennial state:
hence, when the millennium comes, the gospel
must end. Through much tribulation must
we enter the kingdom of heaven. The gos-
pel cheers and comforts men in their trials
and afiliction, but it will not be needed in
the millennium, for there will be no aiifliction.
The
gosgel
teaches us to "come out from
the worl ;" that "in the world we shall
have tribulation," &c. &»c. Will such in-
struction be needed in the millennium?
Again, we are told of the saved,
"
These are
they who have come
up through great tribu-
lation, and washed their robes and made
them white in the blood of the Lamb." It
cannot be so said of those who should be
bom and trained in the millennium.
4. It is opposed to the leading doctrines
of the New Testament. Our Savior says,
"
The harvest is the end of the world," and
"Let the tares and the wheat both grow to-
gether until the harvest." "The tares are
the children of the' wicked one, and the wheat
is the children of the kingdom." "As it was
in the days of Noah, so shall it be at the
coming of the Son of man." Was it a day
of millennial glory when the flood came? If
not, we cannot expect a millennium to pre-
cede the second glorious and personal advent
of our Lord. »
'ro ss ras-mn.i.xNNtu.. 27
But,again; if we are to have a millennium
before the Second Coming of Christ, it must
be infested with the beast, (popery,) and the
false prophet, (Mahometanism or iniidelity,)
for, according to prophecy, they are to con-
tinue till the personal coming of the Lord;
for they are to be consumed by the breath
of his mouth, and destroyed by the bright-
ness of his comme. Are popery, infidelity,
and Mahometanism, to have a
being through
the thousand years of millennial glory 'l Who
knows, then, but that we are now
living in
the
veply
zenith of that promised day?
5. e will now make a little contrast be-
tween the spirit of prophecy and the expecta-
tions of the church.
Christ. "
When the Son of msn
cometh. shsll he find faith on the
earth 1 "
Chrht. "As lt was ln the dsys
of Nosh, so shall lt be at the com-
lng nf the Son of man."
Christ. "Likewise, also, as It
was in the days of Lot, even so
shall ltbe when the Son of msn
shall~be revealed."
Christ. "Tho harvest is the
end of the world. bet the taree
and the wheat
'Frow
together till
the harvest. he tares are the
children of the wicked one, and
the wheat the children ofthe king-
dom."
Apostle. "Through much tribu-
latlon we must enter into the king-
dom of God."
Apostle. "There shall be scoli
fers ln the last
dafys,saying, Where
ls the promise o his coming! for,
slnce the fathers fell asleep, all
thlngs continue as they were from
the beginning."
Church. "Falth1 yes, It will
sosbound that the knowledge of
the Lord shall cover the earth as
the waters cover the sea."
Church. "
Not so; for then all
men shall know the Lord, from the
least to the greatest."
Church. "
When the Son of
msn comes, the whole world shall
have been converted."
Church. "
We are to expect a
thousand years of millennlsl
glory,
before the end of the world, n
which there shall be no tares ;
'
for
all shall be righteous, for
lnathulty
shall he sought for, snd lt sh not
be found!"
Church. "
For a thousand years
we shall have no tribulations-no
tempting devll-no crosses, nor s
dog to move hls tongue."
Church. "In the
þÿ ¬:l&0f
the
last days, holiness to t rd shall
dwell on every tongue, for all
shall slng the hlvh praises of God.
Hence there canlbe no sootfers."
Q oan1s'r's sitcom: comme
How do these statements harmonize? At
the coming of Christ will the earth be covered
with that
wide-spreadfþÿ11!lg0dll!1£i¬S
that
Kas
u n it in the days o Lot and oahfl c-
cdifding to prophecy it will. "There will be
scoffers, saying, where is the promise of his
coming, for all things continue as
they were
from the beginning." It is evident, from this
passage, that the subject is to be agitated in
the last days, or scoffers would not say,
"Where is the promise of his coming?
They shall not know until that awful day
bursts upon them,,"for it shall come as a
thie in the ni ht.'
Now, if the irillennium is to precede the
coming of our Lord, it cannot come so una-
wares as Christ
(pas
intimated. If
thlere
is
to be a thousan years of ace an uni-
versal righteousness, at the Icflose of which
there will be a
little;falling away,
gf
course
all will be looking or the near an speedy
approach of the Savior. Hence it cannot be
unexpected, or come as a thief in the night.
But how evident it-is, that the ordinary views
on this subject are just preparing the world
to have the coming of Christ in an especial
manner overtake them as a thief in the night!
The church and the world are falling into a
moral stupor, under the influence of this opi-
ate. Reader, look well to this matter, lest
that day overtake you as a thief in the night.
6. The destruction of Antichrist is par-
ticularly connected with the coming of Christ.
r
'ro im nn-mmmumu.. 29
See 2 Thess. ii. 8. Speaking of "that wick-
ed" man' of sin, the apostle says, "whom
the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his
mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness
of his coming." If any doubt whether this
passage refers to Christ's Second Coming, let
them look back to the first chapter, 7th, Sth,
9th, and 10th verses, and attend to the con-
nection, and they must be satisfied.
"
But," says the objector,
"
who is Satan
to deceive? Where is he to raise his army,
Gog and Magog'!" When Satan is loosed
out of his prison, and all the ungodly raised
up, he commences his deception, and would
persuade them that they can go up and van-
quish the Holy City, the New Jerusalem,
which John saw come down from God out
of heaven; (see Rev. xxi. 1, 2 ;) and which
was of course on the new earth during the
"
one thousand years." And Gog and Magog,
with Satan at their head, (see Rev. xx.
9,)
"encompassed the camp ofthe saints about,
and THE Bsrovsn ony." Now, if the beloved
city were not on earth during the "one
thousand years," how could Satan be repre-
sented as going up with the ungodly to en-
compass it about? The army of Gog and
Magog are represented as coming up on the
breadth of the earth, from whence they must
have been raised up, (see Mal. iv. 3,) and
their number is as the sand of the sea. Now
l ask, after "one thousand years
"
of millen-
nial glory, are we to expect such an
aposbacy
3*
Q exam-*s smcosn comm
among those who have been esteemed the
Zion of God as will be necessary to constitute
this great army? Then the "one thousand
years" of
triumph
will not be so much of a
triumph, after al. The wiles of Satan will
not be thwarted, even in the millennium.
According to modem notions, Satan will reap
a rich harvest at the very time when the
church is so fondly anticipating her most
glorious times on earth; for he must gather
an army from the subjects of the millennium,
the niunber of whom will be as the sand of
the sea. But let the Israel of God be com-
forted. It is not so. Glorious things are
spoken of thee, 0 Zion, city of the living
God. See Isa. xxiv. 23; lx. 18-21; Ezek.
xxxviii. 10-12; and xviii. 22. Thy King
shall soon come imto thee. "And when
Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then
shall we also appear with him in
glory."
This
glorious hope has been the com ort of
the c urch from the beginning. To the
establishment of Messiah's everlasting king-
dom has she looked for the consummation
of her sufferings and her joys. The com-
mencement of the "thousand years" is the
begiénning
of the saints' everlasting rest.
e have only to refer to the writings of
the most distinguished fathers in the church,
in the first, second, and third centuries, &c.,
to leam that they were believers in the pre-
millennia] advent of our Lord. To this end,
I might refer to Jusrm Mssrrs, Insmstls,
r
'ro as YBIPMILLENNIAL. 31
TEn'rm.r.uN, Onrcrzu, and others, and make
quotations from them; but my limits will not
allow.
It is very often objected, that if Christ
should come as the world now is, millions
of the inhabitants of the earth would be
unprepared to meet him. But these objectors
seem to forget that if he does not come,
millions will die in their sins, and be just as
much unprepared for the coming of Christ
and the judgment when it does come, as they
are now. They seem to think it an awjhl
thing for Christ to come and find the world
so unprepared as it evidently now is; and
yet they expect that these multitudes will
die, and in the judgment of the great day be
found just as unprepared as they now are.
Now, I will ask, where is the difference,
whether Christ comes soon, and finds the
world as it now is, or whether he finds it in
the same moral condition a thousand or ten
thousand years hence 'l Is the latter any less
awful than the former? I simply make
these suggestions for the reflection of these
objectors. They open an
important field of
thought, but I have not room to follow out
the subject in detail.
DANIEL WHITBY, D. D., who died A. D.
1726, aged eighty-eight, was the lirst of those
who taught the doctrine of the millennium
as now enerally believed. See his treatise
at the eng! of his Commentary on the Epistles,
in which he says he "
differs from the ancient
32 can1s'r's sscoun comme rin:-mn.i.1:Nuur..
millenaries." It is less than two centuriu-
since the doctrine of the millennium, or a
thousand years of universal peace and pros
perity,
previous
to the personal coming of
Christ, egan to be taught. In evidence ot
this, there is not a creed to be found contain-
ing the doctrine. And, still further, almost
every creed now extant, among which I will
mention the Presbyterian, Dutch Reformed,
Episcopalian, Methodist, &»c. dw., impliedly,
at least, gives the same view of the subject
as vindicated in this work. They contain
nothing of a millennium to precede the com-
ing of Christ, either expressed or
implied;
hence the doctrine of the millennium, as now
taught,
is of very modern date.
1 , then, the Second Advent of Christ is to
be pre~millennial, one great objection to his
very near
approach
is exterminated. How,
then, shoul we fly to the word of God, and
carefully and prayerfully look for the tokens
of his speedy coming! It is possible that we
stand on the very eve of that ,awful event.
O solemn thought! amazing event ! Such a
period will come; the mystery of God will
be finished; the day of grace will end; the
door of mercy will be closed; for God's Spirit
will not always strive with men. O reader,
are you ready? Should you love that ap-
pearing? Are you of them who "believe in
that day'!"' Beware, lest that day overtake
you as a thief in the night, when, if unpre-
pared, "you shall not escapel'
CHAPTER III.
'ras xmonom.
Ir belongs to our Savior, the Lord Jesus
Christ, as the promised King, as the Son of
David, and heir of the throne of Israel, to
reign over the whole earth. It belongs to
him by merit, by heirship, and by the rom-
ise of him who cannot lie- and the d)ay is
coming, and cannot be far distant, when He
whose right it is shall take to himself his
great power, and shall rei .
It is generally
supposed
that the kingdom
of God, so often spo en of in the Scriptures,
has already been established on the earth;
but I think it will appear, from an examina-
tion of the Scriptures, that this kingdom is
yet
future. The romises made to Abraham,
srael, and David, have never et been ful-
filled. It is said of Israel,
"
God' is with him,
and the shout of a KING is among them.
His seed shall be in many waters, and his
Kmo shall be higher than Agag, and his
kingdom shall be exalted." In renewing the
promises to David, it is said, "I will set up
thy seed after thee, and I will establish his
kingdom, and I will establish the throne of
his kingdom forever."
-The Psalms abound with prophecies of
this kingdom. It is said, "I will make him
my first-born, higher than all the kings of
34 -rm: zmanou.
theearth. Hisseedalsowilll make toen-
dure forever, and his throne as the days.of
heaven." How evident it is, then, that when
this kingdom is established, it is to be ever-
lasting. Now, if there were no other dili-
culty m the way of establishing a
temporal
millennium, this fact alone of the perpetuity
of the kingdom would be fatal to it. In
Daniel ii. 44, it is said,
"
The'God of heaven
shall set up a kingdom which shall never be
destroyed; and the kingdom shall not be
left to other people, but it shall stand for-
ever." Again, Rev. xi. 15: "And the seventh
angel sounded, and there were great voices
in heaven, saying, The kingdoms of this
world are become the kingdoms of our Lord
and his Christ, and he shall reign forever
and ever." Now these promises cannot be in
allusion to Israel in the Iiesh, nor to a tem-
poral millennium; because the kingdom is
never to end. Neither is it consistent to ap-
ly these promises to spiritual Israel in this
life, as it could not be said of such a
king-
dom and state, "It shall never end." These
promises of "the kingdom," therefore, are
yet to be fulfilled; the kingdom is yet to
come. Hence we pray, "thy kingdom come."
This view and belief are expressed in the
recfuest of the wife of Zebedee, who begged
of our Savior that her two sons might sit,
one on his right hand- and the other on his
left, when he came in his kingdom; also in
the saying of his
disciples,
"
'nm xmcnom. 35
forsaken all, and followed thee; what shall
we have therefore? And Jesus said unto
them, Verily I say unto you, that ye which
have followed me, in the regeneration, when
the Son of man shall sit on the throne of his
§ory, ye shall sit upon twelve thrones," dw.
ow the regeneration above cannot allude to
conversion, or remission of sins; for, in that
respect, Christ has not gone before us: and
to interpret it to mean water baptism is
equally absurd. Let the stop come after
followed me, (which is said to be accordin
to the Greek,) and the sense is plain ang
easy. Hence, he promises to those who fol-
low him, that in the regeneration, when the
heavens and the earth shall be renewed, and
he sit on the throne of his glory, they shall
sit with him.
The account which Daniel gives of this
kingdom plainly shows that it is yet to
come. In his prophecy, there are three de-
scriptions of the great events of Providence
from that time to the end of the world. The
first is the great image, the second is the four
beasts that came u from the sea, and the
third is the ram and) the he-goat with their
horns. There is an agreement in these
pre-
sentations; they are so many modes of de in-
eating the same
truth; they are, in fact, but
Exits
of one vision, and all close up with the
`
gdom of Christ. The ten toes of the im-
age, and the ten horns of the fourth beast,
represent plainly the dominions now existing,
Q rnmtanox.
vhiehhaverisenoutof the Romanempine.
The stone cut out without hands, represent-
ing Christ and his kingdom, was to strike
the image on his feet, very toes, (i. e. the ex-
tremities or divisions of these earthly king-
doms,) and make them as the chaff of the
summer threshing-door, and the wind shall
carry them away that no place shall be
found for them. Then the stone that smote
the image shall become a great mountain,
and fill the Whole earth. This has not yet
takcn place; by which it appears that the
glorious kingdom of Christ has not yet come,
--for the thrones are yet standing, and the
beast, who is to be slain, and his body given
to the burning iiames, at the establishment of
his kingdom, is yet alive. Again; his king-
dom Was not to be established till the seventh
angel sounded the last trump; then the king-
doms of this World were to become the king-
doms of our Lord and his Christ. This has
not yet taken place.
Christ is now the nobleman who has gone
"into a far country, (see Luke xix. 11, 27,)
to receive for himself a kingdom, and to re-
turn." But his return will not be until the
day of judgment; then will that glorious
kingdom be established here on the earth.
The promise is, "The meek shall inherit the
earth." This promise has never yet been ful-
filled, but, at his coming and kingdom, it
wall be. This kingdom is "
to fill the whole
earth," "under the whole heaven." The
___
'ns nusnou. 37
earth has been
pgrchased by Christ, and in
due time it will possessed by him; in ref-
erence to which the apostle says to some
of his brethren, "Ye were sealed with that
Holy Spirit of promise, which is the earnest
of our inheritance until the redemption
g
the
purchased possession." Now the Holy pirit
was to the believers an eamest, until the pur-
chased possession (the earth) should be re-
deemed or renewed, then those who shall
have been redeemed by the blood of Christ,
out of every kindred and people and tongue
and nation, as the revelator says, "shall be
made unto God kings and priests, and they
:hall reign on the earth." John saw "the
New Jerusalem coming down from God out
of heaven, and the tabernacle of God set up
among men on the earth."
This earth was originally given to Adam;
but it was forfeited and lost. It was subse-
quently promised to Abraham and his seed
for an
everlasting inheritance. God's prom-
ise to Abraham was, "I will give it thee."
It was romised to Abraham rsonally.
Now, did) he ever inherit it? lg; not so
much as to set the sole of his foot; he did
not even possess a
burial-place till he pur-
chased it. His seed have not yet possessed
it, according to promise. Therefore Abra-
ham and his seed are
yet to
possess
it, (" If
ye be Christ's, then are ye braham's seed
and heirs, according to promise,") and to
possess it
fogever. Consequently it must ba
38 'rin xmenox.
in their resurrection bodies. Hence we con-
clude that t/:Lv earth is to be the home and
the inheritance of the saints "forever, even
forever and 1-:vi-za ;" for such is the promised
duration of Christ's (the second Adam's)
kingdom. In the thirty-seventh Psalm alone,
the earth is promised to the righteous as an
inheritance seven or eight times; and as
often are the wicked threatened with being
cut ofli Read it. »
As Christ was openly despised, and dis-
honored, and rejected on earth, so on earth
he shall be openly adored, admired, and hon-
ored. As on earth he was dressed in a mock
robe, and crowned with thoms, so on earth
he will be dressed in glory and majesty,-
before whom devils will tremble, angels veil
their faces, and admiring saints bow and
adore. tHe will appear in a glorious slzelci-
nah,-the clouds of heaven like flaming(ire,-
such as surrounded the mercy-seat. Thus
he will come, to the joy of his admiring peo-
ple, who love that appearing, but to take
vengeance on those who obey not the gospel.
"
In robes of judgment, lo, he comes!
Shakes the wide earth, and cleaves the tombs:
Before him burns devouring tire;
`
The mountains melt, the seas retire."
When the glorious event transpires, then
the kingdom shall be restored to Israel ; and
then all Israel, (the true and spiritual Israel,)
shall be saved. I cannot but regard the doc-
vtsxoru or 'rn nrrtmx. 39
trine of a
temporal millennium and tem ral
kingdom as a
dangerous error. The cllorect
tendency is, to lull a sinful world and a
time-serving church to sleep; for they are
looking for the vorld's conversion, and a time
for Christ's spiritual reign for a thousand
years, in this temporal state. Under the in-
fluence of this doctrine they are crying "peace
and safety;" and thus "the day of the Lord
will come u n them like a thief in the night,"
"
when sudden destruction shall come upon
them, and they shall not escape."
.lila
C H A P T E R I V.
vrsioss or 'ras ruruns.
lst. Having, it is believed, fairly estab-
lished the point, that the Second Coming of
Christ is yet to take place; that his king-
dom is yet to be established on this earth;
and that his coming will be pre-millennial;
it will nowbe my object to show about the time,
according to prophecy, that "glorious appear-
ing" may be expected. It is very evident,
that the prophecies of Daniel carry us down
the stream of time to that great event; to the
time when all the governments of this world
shall be destroyed, when the man of sin, or
the beast, and the false prophet, shall be cast
together into the lake of fire, and the kingdoms
I) vumzuorrazrurns.
of this world become the kingdoms of our
Lord and of his Christ. The first notice
which Daniel has given us of this great event,
is in the second chapter of his prophecies,
which the reader will please tum to and read.*
The import of the dream there spoken of is,
that four great empires, or kingdoms, shall
exist in the world, and they were represented
by the four parts of the image. The head
of gold represents the Babylonish or Chaldean
kingdom, over which Nebuchadnezzar then
reigned; the breast and arms of silver repre-
sented the Medo-Persian empire; the belly
and thighs of brass, the Grecians; the legs
and feet of iron and clay, the Roman empire,
both pagan and papal, civil and ecclesiastical.
The stone cut out without hands represented
the kingdom of Christ. This kingdom is to
overcome and break in ieces all other king-
doms, iill the whole world, and stand forever.
The above dream was in the second year of
the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, B. C. 603.
Forty-eight ears after, in the first year of
the reign of lielshazzar, B. C. 555, Daniel
"had a dream and vision of his head upon
his bed." The import of this vision was like
that of Nebuchadnezzar's dream. He saw
four great beasts come up out of the sea,
diverse one from the other. (See seventh
* For the sake of
brevityl
have not generally quoted
the text at large, but woul request the candid inqurrer to
be particular and take his Bible, and turn to the
'Figs
interred to, and carefully read them, to see whe these
things be so ; for it is a subject of great moment.
_
vmons'o|'rnz nrrnx. 41
ehap.) Daniel was informed, at the 17th
verse, that these four beasts were four kings,
or kingdoms, which should arise out of the
earth. He is also informed that the kingdom
of Christ shall destroy the fourth beast, and
that Christ's kingdom shall stand forever.
Two years after the foregoing, Daniel
had another vision, commencing not with
the Chaldean kingdom, as did the kiug's
dream and Danie1's former vision, for the
very good reason, that the Chaldean kingdom
was then crumbling to
sieces,
and nigh its
end. The vision, accor `ngly, began with
the Medo-Persian kingdom, represented by
a ram with two horns. (See eighth chapter.)
Against the ram comes a he-goat, representing
Alexander, or the Grecian kingdom, which,
after the death of Alexander, was divided
into four. Verse 8. And out of one of these
four came a little hom, (verse 9,) which rep-
resents the Roman kingdom, which in its
origin was very -small, but was
subsequently
called the empire of the world, because of its
extended wer. In the 23d verse, the Ro-
man kingsgm is spoken of again, under the
figure of a
king of fierce countenance, dec.
Finally, in the 25th verse, it is said of Rome,
'fhe shall be broken without hand." This
again brings us down to the end, where Christ
will destroy the fourth beast, by the bright-
ness of his coming,
"
without hand," that is,
in a supernatural marmer. It is very evident
that the king's dream and Daniel's two visions
40
are all one in substance, and that they all-
reach down to the final destruction of all
earthly kingdoms, and the Second Coming
of the Son of man.
2d. Length of the Visions. Now, the in-
quiry is, what means have we of getting a
clue at the length of time that was to trans-
Sire
before the coming of Christ to break
own and subdue by the brightness of his
comin the kingdoms of this world? Daniel
mys, éha .
13, 14,)
"
Then I heard one
saint spealiing, and another saint said unto
that certain saint which spake, How long
shall be the vision conceming the daily sac-
rifice and the transgression of desolation, to
give both the sanctuary and the host to be
trodden under foot? And he said unto me,
Unto two thousand and three hundred days;
then shall the sanctuary be cleansed." By
daily sacrifice, we are to understand the
idolatrous sacrifice of Pagan, Rome; by the
transgression of desolation, the abominations
of Popery; by sanctuary, the temple of Jeru-
salem and the Jewish church; by host, the
Christian church. The question might be
thus: How long shall the Jewish and Chris-
tian church be trodden under foot by pagan
and po ish powers 'l The answer was, unto
2300 ciiiys; then shall the sanctuary be
cleansed. That is, the powers of the world
shall no longer lord it over the
heritage
of
God, and sin and evil shall no longer be ound
in the church.
LENGTH or 'ri-nz visions. 43
But, it may be asked, what are we to un-
derstand by a day in this prophecy? An-
swer: a year. This is evident, lst. By the
vision of 70 weeks, in which there are 490
days. See Daniel ix. 24. The fulfilment
of that prophecy proves that each day 'of the
490 stood for a year. 2d. It was the way
God directs his prophets and people to reckon.
See Numbers xiv. 34; Ezek. iv. 5,9; Gen.
xxix. 27. Daniel has followed this rule.
There is no intimation given in the vision of
the period when the 2300 days are to com-
mence; but in the ninth chapter of
`
Daniel
we have a clue to it. See from the 21st to
the 27th verses. The angel Gabriel, who
had come to instruct Daniel, and give him
skill, commanded him to "understand the
matter, and consider the vision." As the
visions were all one, there can be no mistake
about what vision was meant. It was the
vision of 2300 days, conceming which Daniel
was now receiving skill and understanding.
Gabriel says, (chap. ix. 24-27,) "Seventy
weeks are determined upon thy people, and
upon thy holy city," 61/c. Know therefore
and imderstand, that from the going forth of
the commandment to restore and build Jeru-
salem, unto Messiah the Prince, shall be
seven weeks, and threescore and two weeks,
that is 62 weeks: the street shall be built
again, and the wall, even in troublous times.
And after 62 weeks shall Messiah be cut off;
dm. "And he shall confirm the covenant
44
1
users or 'ms visions.-
with many for one week," &c. This T0
Weeks is divided into three periods.
lst. Seven weeks, (prophetic,) or 49 days,
or years, which, according to verse 25, were
to commence at the going forth of the com-
mandment of Artaxerxes (Longimanus) to
restore and rebuild Jerusalem, until it was
finished,which was just 49 years. 2d. Sixty-
two weeks, or 434 days, or years, from the
finishing of the city and temple, to the preach-
ing of John the Baptist. In the fifteenth
year of Tiberius Caesar, (Luke iii. 1,) Christ
said, "The law and the prophets were until
John; since then the kingdom of heaven is
preached." 3d. One week, or 7 days, or
years, verse 27th, which included Johu's
ministry three and a half years, and Christ's
three and a half 49 days, 434 days, and 7
days, prophetic, are 490 days, or years.
Now we are to inquire when the decree
of Artaxerxes to restore and build Jerusalem
was made. It was in the seventh .year of
his reign. See Ezra vii. 7. From the 11th
tothe 26th verses, is a copy of the decree. In
Ezra viii. 31, he informs us that he left the
river Ahava on the 12th day of the lst month,
to go up to Jerusalem. That was two days
before the Jews' passover. Christ was cruci-
fied in the 22d year of Tiberius Caasar's reign.
See Luke iii. 1, 2. John began his ministry
in the fifteenth year of Caasar's reign; and
the ministry of John and Christ, together,
being seven years, would just bring the death
users or rn: visions. 45
of Christ as above stated. We are informed
by the
evanfgelists
that Jesus was betrayed
two days be ore the passover, that is, on the
12th day of the lst month, which is just 490
years from the time Ezra left the river Ahava
to go up to Jemsalem, to a single day.
Now, as the instruction of Gabriel to Dan-
iel is a key to the vision of the 2300 days,
we learn from it two important facts: lst.
That in prophecy a day means a year. 2d.
When to commence the 2300 days, viz., at
the
going
forth of the decree of Artaxerxes
to rebuid Jerusalem. Then 490 years of
the 2300 were
accomplished at the death of
Christ, and 1810 remained to be fulfilled
after his death. Now, it should be remem-
bered that the Christian era commenced with
the birth of Christ, not his death; therefore
we must take his age, 33 years, and add it to
the 1810, and it brings us to A. D. 1843,
when the sanctuary is to be cleansed.
We have now followed down the 2300
days from the proper starting-point, viz., the
seventh year of the reign of Artaxerxes,
which was 457 years before the birth of
Christ. Now if we add his age, 33 years,
to 457, it will make 490 years, giving us again
the 70 prophetic weeks. Now, add to 1843
the 457, and you have the full number of
days or years, 2300.
Gabriel, as if to make the vision doublysure,
has divided the 70 weeks into three
plarts,
as
above stated, viz., 7, 62, and 1. e
then
»»_ .__,;
46 uzuoru or 'mx visions.
tells us what would be accomplished in each
part separately.
'
lst. Seven Weeks. "
The streets shall be
built again, and the wall, even in troublous
times." Dan. ix. 25. This was most liter-
ally accomplished under Ezra and Nehemiah,
who were govemors over Jerusalem 49 years,
the seven prophetic weeks, and carries us
down to 408, B. C.
2d. Sixty-two weeks. "Unto the Messiah
the Prince," 62 weeks, would be 434 days,
or years; and would carry us down to 26
years after Christ's birth, and bring us to the
very year of "the beginning of the gospel of
Jesus Christ, the Son of God." Mark i. 1.
3d. One week. "He shall confirm the
covenant with many _for one week." This
would be 7 years, which, added to the 26,
would make 33, just the age of Christ. Here,
again, We find an exact accomplishment of
the angel's declaration._ The covenant was
confirmed one week, or 7 years, the ministry
of John and Christ, and then the Messiah
was cut oft, (crucitied,) but not for himselif
Here end the 70 weeks. Daniel's rophecy
is proved true, the vision established?and the
Jew and intidel confounded.
3d. More particulars concerning the Form
nmsrs. In the seventh chapter of Daniel,
under the figure of four great beasts, with
their various and peculiar characteristics, we
have
presented to us a long series of events,
reaching from Daniel's time down to the
'ran rom; sms-rs. 47
coming of the Son of man m the clouds of
heaven with power and great glory. The
four winds of heaven strove upon the great
sea, and four great beasts came up from the
sea, diverse one from the other. The first
was like a lion, and had eagle's wings. This
signilied the Chaldean kingdom, the same as
the golden head of the image in Nebuchad-
nezzar's dream, chapter ii. The king of
the Chaldeans is compared to a
lion, (Isa. v.
29,) and is said to fly as an eagle. Jer. xlviii.
41. "The second was like a bear, and it
raised itself up on one side; and it had three
ribs in the mouth of it." This represented
the Medo-Persian empire-a fit emblem of
the Medes and Persians, because of their cru-
elly and thirsl of blood. They were' great
robbers and spoilers. The three ribs show
how Babylon, Lydia., and Egypt were de-
voured by the bear, or the Persians. .
"
The
third was like a.
leopard, with four wings
upon the back of it, like a fowl; the beast
had also four heads; and dominion was
given to it." This was the Greek empire.
'I'he "four wings" strikingly represent the
rapidity of the conquest of Alexander the
Great. Nothing in the history of the world
was equal to it. The "four heads" signified
the division of Alexander's empire, after
his death, among his four generals-Cassam
der, who reigned over Macedonia and Greece ;
I/ysimaclzus, over Thrace and Bithymkz;
Plolemy, over Egypt; and Seleucus, over
48 'rn rom: susrs. _
Syria. The fourth was a beast "dreadful
and terrible, and strong exceedingly; and it
had great iron teeth; it devoured and brake
in pieces, and stamped the residue with the
feet of it; and it was diverse from all the
beasts that were before it; and it had ten
horns. And among them came
up a little
horn, before whom three of the first horns
were
plucked up. In this lille horn were
eyes like the eyes of aman, and a mouth
speaking great things. He saw all these
thrones cast down, and the Ancient of Days
did sit. The judgment set, and the books
were
opened. He saw the beast (horns and
all, of course) slain, and his body given to
the buming iiame. And he saw one like
the Son of man come in the clouds of heaven,
and dominion was given him, dw., which
was to be everlasting, and a kingdom never
to be destroyed. Verses 17 and 18 explain
the vision thus: "
These great beasts, which
are four, are four kings, (or kingdoms,)
which shall arise out of the earth." "But
the saints of the Most High shall take the
kingdom, and possess it, even forever and
ever." Verses 1--18.
The peculiar character of the fourth beast
seemed especially to call the attention of
Daniel, and he desired to know its significa-
tion. See Daniel's inquiry, from the 16th to
the 22d verses. Also, see the answer, irom
the 23d to the 28th verses.
'I'he "
ten horns
"
answer to the ten toes in
'ras norm nmsrs. 49
chap. 41. It is evident that the little hom
was to be the last form of the Roman gov-
emment ; and, as
you will see in verse 25th,
his power was to continue for a
"
time, and
times, and the dividing of time." Then his
dominion was to be taken away, but not
utterly destroyed; but from the time of its
being taken away, it was to be consumed to
the end, when the bri htness of the coming
of Christ shall utterly destroy it.
4th. Of the ten horns of the fourth beast.
Answering to the ten horns of the fourth
beast, there have been ten kingdoms within
the bolmds of the Roman government, viz.,
France, Britain, Spain, Portugal, Naples,
Tuscany, Austrzkz, Lombardy, Rome, and Ra-
venna. The three last were
plucked up by
the roots, as Daniel infomrs us, by the "little
hom." The exarchate of Ravenna was
given
to Pope Stephen Il. by Pepin, king of
tance, A. D. 755. This
Iconstitlged
the
s tem ral rinces. ,ombar y was
gipfgn to St?oPeterPby Charlemagne in A. D.
774. The state of Rome was vested in the
pope, both in spirituals and temporals, and
confirmed to him by Lewis the pious. §See
Clarke.) The saints were to be given into
the hands of the "little horn, who was to
speak great words against the Most High,
wear out the saints, &»c., for a time, times,
and the dividing of time." See verses 25,
26. By a formal edict, Justinian, Emperor
of Constantinople, declared the bishop of
_
5
A
50 rm: roun nusrs.
Rome the head of all the churches; and in
A. D. 538 he began to exercise his
power,
unrestrained, which is the point o time
where we are to commence the "
time, times,
and the' dividing of time," or 1260 days. A
time in prophecy means a year of 360 days;
times, two years; dividing of time, half n.
year; making in all 1260 days. It may be
asked, how this is known to be the meaning?
Answer. In Revelation the same time is
mentioned, and with reference to the same
events, where it is sometimes called a
"
time,
times, and a half," sometimes "forty-two
mdiths," which is the same as three and a
half years; and sometimes 1260 days, which
is just the same, reckoning 360 days to a.
year.
See Rev. xi. 2, 3; xii. 5, and xiii. 5.
n all these places, the time of the oppressive
reign of popery, 1260
years,
(from 538 to
1798,) is referred to. "or just that length
of time the holy city was to be trodden down;
the two witnesses, (Old and New Testa-
ments,) to prophesy in sackcloth; the woman
(Church) to flee into the wilderness; where
a place was
prepared for her, that they should
feed her there a thousand two hundred and
threescore days. And the beast of the
thirteenth chapter, which is the same
power
as the little horn of' the seventh chapter of
Daniel, was to have power to continue forty-
two months, making war on the saints.
Thus what the Holy Spirit in one place calls
I.
time, times and a
halt, at another he de-
`
vision or 'rim um Arm an-sour. 51
fines by forty-two months, and again by
twelve hundred and sixty days.
Now if we have got the right time for the
setting up the little horn, or
papal power,
viz., A. D. 538, then the 1260 years would
bring us dovn to 1798.
Now vhat are the facts in the case? They
are as follows: Daniel says, (viii. 26,) speak-
ing of the little horn, or popery,
"
They shall
take away his dominion to consume and
destroy it unto the end." In 1798, Berthier,
a French general, with a French army en-
tered Rome without resistance, deposed the'
ope, and led him into captivity, in which
lie died in 1799. His power was broken and
his dominion taken away. Since that time,
the pope, althouvh nominally restored, has
exercised none ot?his former power over any
of the kings of Europe, or the protestant
churches. From that time popery has been
gradually but surely wasting away, and with
the appearing of our Lord it will be utterly
destroyed.
5th. Vision of the Ram and He-Goat.
In the Sth chapter of Daniel we have what
is called the vision of the ram and he-goat;
verse 1-8. Here, as has been before stated,
the vision began, not with the Chaldean, but
the Medo-Persian kingdom. At the 9th verse
the "little horn" comes
up again, which is
the fourth beast. This east occupies a
most conspicuous place in all the vision.
Gabriel, who had come to give Daniel in-
52 vision or rm: urrsn nu.
struction, and make him understand the
matter, at the 20th verse commences his in-
terpretation. "The ram which thou sawest,
having two homs, are the kings of Media
and Persia." This explanation is so definite
and literal, and accords so perfectly with
history, that it needs no further explanation.
Gabriel then goes on, "And the rough
goat
is the king of Grecia; and the great
om that is between his eyes is the iirst
king." He also informs us that "the great
horn was broken, and that four came up for
it, representing four kingdoms that should
come up in the natiou;" the same as the
four heads' of the leopard in the former vis-
ion. It represents Alexander's kingdom and
its division after his death. At the 23d verse
the angel introduces the -fourth beast again,
(Rome,) giving us a picture of its character,
and hints at its final overthrow,-" But he
shall be broken without hand ;" verse 25.
In the 9th chapter Daniel has instruction
about the 70 weeks, (verse 24,) of which I
have s ken already. Also about the cut-
ting oillxdf the Messiah, and the destruction
of Jerusalem, verse 26.
6. Vision of the latter day. In the 10th
chapter we learn that a divine messenger is
sent to Daniel for the purpose of telling him,
and "making him understand," (verse 14,)
what should befall his eople in the latter
days. He also informes Daniel that the
vision extended to many days.
vision or 'ran urrax nn. 53
In the 11th and 12th chapters Daniel was
instructed, not by emblems and visions, as
in the former development, but by direct
revelation made to him of the events of fu-
turity. But like the other, this`portion of
the prophecy furnishes us with a train of
events extending from the days of Daniel
down to the resurrection of the righteous.
There is such perfect agreement between
the prophecy and history, and the facts are
so Well known, that it will be unnecessary for
me to go into much detail. From the 1st
to the 4th verse of the 11th chapter Gabriel
refers again to the Persian and Grecian king-
doms, and of the latter (Alexander's or the
Grecian) being divided into four; (just as
given in the visions in the 7th and Sth chap-
ters.) From the 5th to the 14th verses, we
have a very striking prophecy of the wars
carried on between the North and the South,
(with reference to Judea,) viz., Syria and
Egypt. Any one who may have the curi-
osity to learn the exact agreement between
the prophecy and history can refer to Clarke
on Daniel, or read Rollin's Ancient History,
where he has given the history and applied
this prophecy. At the 20th verse we are,
again
introduced to the history of Rome.
he "raiser of taxes," &c., there mentioned,
is su posed to signify Augustus Cesar the
first Illoman Emperor. He decreed that all
the world should be taxed; Luke ii. 1-5.
The "vile person
"
mentioned verse 21, was
B*
54 vision or 'rms wrrn nu.
Tiberius Caesar, under whom reign the
Prince of the covenant
gllhrist)
was broken,
or crucified, verse 22. ere ends again the
history of the 70 weeks.
At the 23d verse, the angel takes us back
to the league made' between the Jews and the
Romans, which was the first ever made
between them. This took place about 158
years B. C., when Bacchides, the Grecian
general, withdrew his army from before Je-
rusalem and never returned to vex the Jews
any more. Maccabees and ix. 72. Also
Josephus's Antiquities, B. 12. chap. x. sec. vi.
Then began the pagan beast, or pagan Rome,
to exercise his power over the people of God,
and continued it to A. D. 508, making 666
years' reign of pagan Rome over the Jewish
church.* The angel then goes on giving a
prophetic history of what should transpire
among the nations, and leads us along down
to the overthrow of agan Rome, A, D. 508,
and the setting up ot?papal Rome, A. D. 538,
24-31. From the 32d to the 35th verse, Ga-
briel refers to the holy people, the church, to
their persecutions, trials, &.c. In verse 36 a
king is spoken oi, which came up among the
ten horns, who blasphemed the God of heaven.
It is mystical Babylon; Isa. xiv. 12-15;
Rev. xiii. 5, 6. It is the man`of sin of Paul;
2 Thess. ii. 1-9. It is popery, at which the
angel has given us a glance down to the
° Rev. 18. The number of the beast is 666.
rnnmnorrnexn. 55
"
time of the end," which, we have already
shown, commenced in 1798, when the
pope
was deposed. The time of the end is rom
the fall of popery, 1798, to the end itself;
which, if these calculations are correct, will
be about A. D. 1843. In the last part of
the chapter we are instructed in reference to
the conquest of Bonaparte, his end, (verse
45%)
and the French Revolution.
th. The time of the End. Daniel, chap.
xii. 1, 4. And at that time, (time of the
end) shall Michael stand up, the great Prince
glhrist)
which standeth for the people of
od, &.c. Here We are carried down to the
resurrection, and gloriiication of the righte-
ous. "The time of the end," in which we
are now living, has not closed, nor will it
until the nun 'ilsem when the myste of
God shall be iinished, Christ come, anliy the
righteous dead be raised incorruptible. It
has been shown that the time of the end
commenced in 1798, when knowledge was
to increase, and when "the wise should lm-
derstand;" verse 10. When, I ask, has
knowledge so rapidly increased as within the
last 40 years? More light has been given
on the
protphecies,
in that time, than for ages
before, an it is still increasing. At the 6th
verse one inquired, "How long shall it be to
the end of these wonders?" as spoken of chap.
xi. and the 3 first verses chap. xii. Answer.
"A time, times, and a half;" viz., 1260 years,
'56 'rn 'rum or 'ran mn.
as already shown.* "And from the time
the daily sacrilice (rites of pagan Rome)
shall be taken away, and the abomination
that maketh desolate set up, (papal Rome,
which was set up 30 years after) there shall
be 1290
deaiys;"g;':rse
11.
DThe
rites of pagan-
ism ceas
`
in me A. _ 508. The 1290
days would bring us to A. D. 1798, when
popery fell. At verse 12, it is said, "Blessed
:phe Jhaf? waiteihlpnd gomet: ac;
the 1335
ays. rom . _ 50 to . .
1843, is
just 1335 days, or years. In the 13th verse
Daniel is told, that at the end of 1335 days
[yearslllile shagl stzgd
in his lot, of course,
with a e re eem .
O, my dear reader; we are living in the
"
time of the end ;" and very soon, He that
shall come will come, and will not tarry.
Are you prepared for such an event? Are
you_" looking for that blessed hope, and the
glorious appearing of the great God, and
our Savior Jesus Christi" Are you among
the number who will "love his appearing,"
** It is here worthy of note, that the visions of John, the
Revelator, and of Daniel, singularly concur. John saw
in a vision, a beast rise up out of the sea, having 7 heads
and 10 horns. Rev. xiii. 1. The 7 heads, signified the 7
forms of the Roman government. The 10 horns, ten king-
doms. On this beast sat the Romish church; the whore
of Babylon. Rev. xvii. Read Rev. chap. xii. It is evi-
dent that papany is the little horn' of Damel's sea monster,
the man of sin of Paul, (read 2d Thess. chap. ii.) and the
Babylon of John. It was to continue 42 months, viz., 1260
days or years, (Rev. 5,) from 538 to 1798, as lm!
been stated.
svuorszs or cncumrxou. -
57
and who feel like saying, "Amen, even so;
come Lord Jesus, come quickly?" Or are
you of those who are saying in their hearts,
"
My Lord delayeth his coming?" If so, he
will come upon you suddenly, even "as a
thief in the night, and you shall not escape."
"
Can ye not discem the signs of the times?"
God will assuredly fulfil all his word. In
conclusion I will say, in the words of the
Master, "What I say unto you, I say 'unto
all, WATCH."
But
¢§t/tat day and tha( hour knoweth no
man; att. xxiv. 36. These words are
frequently quoted to prove that we are to
know nothing of the time of Christ's coming.
Let it be distinctly understood, that we do not
attempt to tell the hour or the day. But it
is very evident that the righteous have the
means of knowing about the time that they
hould look for the "coming of the Son of
man." In the 37th verse, Christ says, "But
as the days of Noah were, so also shall the
coming of the Son of man be." Now, did
not Noah and his family know about the time
that the flood would come? Certainly they
did. If the reader will take the pains to
tum to the following passages, I think they
will satisfy him on this point. Dan. ii. 20,
23, 27; viii. 13-19; ix. 21-27; x. 1, 14;
xii. 10-13. Matt. xxiv. 32-39; xxv. 5, 6.
Who is to give the midnight cry, if none
know of the time? Luke xxi. 25-28; 1
Thess. v. 1-4; 2 Pet. iii. 10, 17. "Ye,
58 sruorsrs or cu.cuu'rxox.
brethren, are not in darkness, that that day
should overtake you as a thie£" Four years
cover the whole ground of dispute about our
chronology; and it appears to me very certain,
that at some point between 1840 and 1847,
that event will transpire!! Reader, are you
ready 'P
9th. Synopsis of the calculation. Now
it should be kept in mind that the 2300 days,
or years, fomi the grand number in this stu-
pendous prophecy, and cover the whole
ground, from the commencement of the 70
weeks down to the resurrection of the saints,
or the Second Corning of our Lord. There are
several divisions of the time, covering this
ground of ages, which seem to have been
made, in reference to peculiar events that
were to transpire. I shall here present a
synopsis of calculations, to show the reader
what a harmony there is in the prophetic
calculation, and what reason we have to ex-
pect a
perfect fulfilment of all its declara-
tions.
I. From the decree 'to rebuild Jeru- rm-._
salem to the crucifixion of Christ, 490
From the crucifixion to the taking
away the daily sacrifice, (pagan
rites,) 475
From taking away the pagan rites
to setting up the abomination or
desolation, or popery, 30
,From the setting up of the papal
simorsrs or c.u.cuL/vriox. 59
'
civil rule, A. D. 538, to its fall,
1798, 1260
Now add to the above numbers 45
and you get the grand prophetic --
number, 2300
Now, 45 years after A. D. 1798, the pro-
phetic reckoning will be out, and the sanc-
tuary will be cleansed. This brings us down
to A. D. 1843. -
II. From the decree to the death of
Christ, 490
From the crucifixion to the taking
away the pagan rites, 475
From the fall of paganism to the
end, (see Dan. xii. 12,) 1335
This again gives us the grand pro-
>-
phetic number, 2300
III. In Daniel xii. 11, the angel mentions
1290 days, which is just the length of time
from the fall of paganism to the fall of pope-
ry. In verse 12th he mentions 1335 days,
which is the length of time from the fall of
paganism
to the END, as stated above. There-
ore, the angel has here given us the means
of determining how long it will be from the
fall of popery to the end. Thus, take 1335
And subtract from it _
1290
The remainder is 45
Now, add 45 to 1798, which was the time
that the papal power was to be taken away,
60 snlorsrs or cncuurroit.
anditbringsustothecleansingofthe sanc-
tuary, in A. D. 1843.
IV. From the full term of the vision,
which is 2300
Subtract 70 weeks of years, to the
death of Christ, which is 490
And it leaves 1810
To this add the life of Christ, 33
Cleansing of the sanctuary, or the --
end, will come in 1843
V. From the grand prophetic number, 2300
Subtract the time from the decree
to the birth of Christ, which is 457
End of the vision, 1843
I now ask, is there any good reason to ex-
pect a failure, when the events given to take
place during the 2300 years have been so
exactly and literally fulfilled, down to the
present time? If our chronology* is correct,
we cannot be far from that glorious and aw-
ful event. And, reader, are you prepared for
such an event? If not, delay it no
longer.
* There is some dispute about an error in our
chronology
of about four years, as it regards the time of our Savin s
birth. But admitting Christ was bom four
(years
earlier
than we calculate, it does not affect the gran numbers in
the vision at all ; it only makes Christ four years older at
his death, which some of the learned suppose was the fact.
4
°
CHAPTER V.
THE SIGNS OF THE TIMES.
Tm: Jews, in the days of Christ's first
coming, had abundant evidence, had the
regarded it, to satisfy them of the approacli
of Messiah, and that Jesus of Nazareth was
the Christ. Now let us
inquire what signs
are
given us in prophecy relative to Christ's
Second Coming, which are fulfilled, or ful-
filling before our eyes.
"1. Christ tells us, (Matt. xxiv. 14,) 'This
gospel shall be preached in all the world as
a witness, and then shall the end come.' Is
not this sign already accomplished? Bibles
translated into more than two hundred dif-
ferent languages; missionaries sent among
all the nations known to us on the globe,
and reformation succeeding reformation in
every town, nook or corner in this land.
The gospel has now spread over the four
quarters of the globe. It began in Asia: in
the apostles' day, that quarter was full of
light. From thence it went into Africa; and
for. a number of centuries Africa stretched
out her hands unto God. Europe, too, has
had a long visitation of gospel blessings; and
now America, the last quarter of the globe,
is reaping a harvest of souls for the last day.
The, gospel, like the sun, arose in the East,
and will set in the West.
"2. The pouring out of the Holy Spirit.,
6
62 sions or -rm: mass. _
and last reign of grace; James v. 5, 8. Now,
can any man, who has any knowledge of the
resent times, deny that God has poured out
hisSpirit, in a remarkable manner, for twenty
years past? Has not the gospel been spread
in as rapid and extensive a manner as in the
apostolic day? Has not opposition and perse-
cution of the kings of the earth, of the Woman
that sitteth upon many waters, the sea, been
in a great measure
kept in check and power-
less, by some invisible power, some
mighty
arm, until the servants of God should be
sealed, the latter rain of grace descend, and
God's purposes completed concerning this
latter day? Here, then, we_ have a clear and
visible sign that the coming of the Lord
draweth nigh.
"3. 'Many running to and fro.' This is
another important and evident sign of the
end; Daniel xii. 4. Whether the prophet
means to be understood '
many shall run to
and fro,' in a religious sense, or in a civil or
temporal sense, or whether he means in both,
is perfectly immaterial for my purpose; all
must acknowledge that this text is remarka-
bly fulfilled in this day, in either point of
view. If it means missionaries of the cross,
no man can dispute the fulfilment: sec the
heralds of salvation crossing and re-crossing
on
every part of the habitable globe. If it
means common travellers, or the ra id means
of travel, still our text holds goocij and the
fulfilment is obvious. No man, unless he is
sions or 'rim 'rmnzsr 63'
wilfully ignorant, can deny that this sign is
actually and literally fulfilled;
"
4. The great increase of knowledge, given
in the same text as above: '
Even to the time
of the end, many shall run to and fro, and
knowledge shall be increased.' View this in
any point you please, whether theologically
or scientifically, it is literally true.
'f 5. The great increase of riches, and de-
sire for laying up worldly treasures, as
described by James, v. 3: 'Ye have heaped
treasure together for the last days.' When,
since the writer of this epistle was on earth,
has there been such an increase of gold and
silver, and treasures of this life, as at this
day? Our rich men are laying up their gold
and silver, and treasures, in abundance;
but, as thou h this individual exertion for
riches woulf not completely fulfil our text,
they have entered into all manner of coni-
panies and monopolies to 'heap treasures
together.'
"
6. Scoffers, saying, 'Where is the prom-
ise of his coming'!' as Peter informs us, in
his second' Epistle, iii. 4. A right under-
standing of this text would show us, at once,
that many of us, who fancy we are in the
highway to heaven, are belonging to this
class of scoffers. First, they walk after their
own lusts; that is, after their own camal
notions conceming the coming of Christ.
They say all things will continue as they
were ii'om the creation; they must have a.
64 sions or 'rn mnzs.
temporal millennium; man must be married,
and given in marriage; the world will not
be burnt; and my Lord delayeth his coming,
some say a thousand years, and some say
365,000 years. Therefore many scoff, and
ridicule the idea that the Scripture tells of
the Second Coming of Christ, the manner,
object, and time; and many are
willingly
ignorant, and they will not hear or read on
this subject. _
"
7. 'Perilous times,' as described in 2 Tim.
1-7.
What better description of domestic and
public society could we
expect from the most
close observer of rivate characters, domes-
tic circles, and _pulglic societies of our times,
than is here given? One would conclude,
had he found this in any other book but the
Bible, that it was by a modem Writer, well
acquainted with the human heart and the
generations now on the earth.
"8. 'Departing from the faith, givin heed
to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils,
speaking lies in. hypocrisy,* having their
conscience seared with a hot iron; forbid-
ding to marry, and commanding to abstain
from meats.' Thus Paul tells Timothy, lst
E istle iv. 1-3. This,` we must acknow-
ledge, has been, and now is, fulfilling. The
whole, almost, of the Christian World, have
departed from or changed their faith, within
fifteen years; seducing spirits are
evidently
_
*
Mormonism, with kindred spirits tha! have preceded
rt, is strikingly coincident with the signs of the last times
sions or 'nm Times. 65
at work; hypocrites are
multiplying among
us ; Roman Catholics, Shakers, 1 ilgrims,
Fanny Wright, Owen, and others, forbid to
marry; Roman Catholics, and many othefs
amon us, are teaching to abstain from ments
and xifinks, which God hath created to be
received with thanksgiving of them which
believe and know the truth.
"9. Christ gives a sign, in Luke xxi.
25-28: 'And there shall be signs ir1 the sun,
and in the moolg and in the stars; and upon
the earth distress of nations, with perplexity§
the sea and the waves roaring; men's hearts
failing them for fear, and for looking after
those things which are
coming on the earth;
for the powers of heaven shall be shaken;
and then shall they see the Son of man
coming in a cloud, with power and great
glory. And when these things begin to come
to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads,
for your redemption draweth nigh.'
"
In the foregoing passage, our Savior has
given a statement of certain signs, by which
it may be known that "the time is at hand;
that the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled;
that the redemption of God's people draweth
nigh," &»c. Who is so blind as not to be able
to see, in the present age, a fulfilment of the
above-mentioned signs? A few years past
have _been pregnant with peculiar events and
phenomena, which cannot but leave an im-
pression upon the mind of the Bible student,
who is an observer.
1
66 sions or 'nm runs.
Si ns in the starsi The word star, an-
ciently, was
applied to whatever had the
appearance of a star. How can that won-
derful phenomena of falling stars, or meteors,
which astonished the world a few years
since, be regarded but as a sign of the last
times? We have also had, and still have,
distress of nations, with perplexity. Every-
thing in the civilized world is unsettled;
the sea and the waves are truly roaring.
Whether we apply this literally or morally,
it is equally applicable. Probably such dis-
astrous times were never known upon the
mighty waters, as within a few years; the
heart of the hardy mariner has failed, and
the land has mourned; the destruction of life
and property is without precedent. Men's
hearts have quailed, while scourge after
scourge has visited the world; plague, chol-
era, and sore calamity, have fallen upon the
nations; a bloody, nocturnal light has occa-
sionally himg over the earth, within a few
years past; the aurora borealis is
compara-
tively of modern origin. But this g ance
must suffice. Pages might be filled with sim-
ilar suggestions; but O! how apt we are to
say all things continue as they were, and to
esteem these impressive signs as common-
place occurrences. May God help us to
watch!
"
10th. The scattering of the holy
people,
and division of sects, as
prophesied
o ,
Dan.
xii. 7: 'And when he shal have accom-
smrsorrnnrulls. U'
pl1sh°ed to scatter the power of the holy
ple, all these shall be finished!
This prophecy is now ulfilling in a remark-
able manner. Not one sect, who profess
holiness, but are divided and subdivided into
contending schisrns; and that, too, within
twenty years.
"
11 th. The division of the political world,
as
prophesied
of by John, Rev. xvi. 12-16:
'And saw three unclean spirits;' and 19th
verse:
'
And the great city was divided into
three rts, and the cities of the nations
fell.' That these spirits are political, is evi-
dent from the fact that they come out of
the mouth of the dragon (kings) and beast,
(Catholic,) false prophet, (Mahornetan or
infidelity) and unclean, signifying they are
not holy things. This prophecy is now ac-
complishing. What nation, within our know-
ledge, is not already divided into three politi-
cal parties? None, which is in any way
known to your speaker.
"
12th. The church has fulfilled her 1260
years inthe wilderness, spoken of in Rev.
xii. 6, 14. These days were
evidently
accomplished in 1798; since which time the
Protestant church has enjoyed privileges
even in the city of nations, the Roman ern-
pire; and, according to Daniel, forty-five
years will complete the whole plan of re-
demption.
"
13th. The two witnesses prove that the
1260 years are ended; for it is evident that
68 sions or 'rn rmss.
the Old and New Testaments are not now
hid nor kept from the common people, but
have risen from their dead state, and are
now
plerforming
the office God designed
they s ould, conveying light to the world.
Theyare not clothed in sackcloth, but, through
the missionaries of the cross and Bible so-
cieties, are testifying to the world of Christ
and his Second Coming.
"
14th. The opening of the sixth seal, re-
vealed in the sixth and seventh chapters of
Revelation, was opened in the French revolu-
tion, and carries us through a sealing time
unto the o ning of the seventh seal, which
ushers us gzfore the judgment-seat of God.
No one can deny but that, since the revolu-
tion in France, a. sealing time has passed;
many have been born into the spiritual king-
dom of Christ, more than ever has been
known in the same period of time since the
apostles' days. This seal, then, is evidently
opened, and is a strong evidence that the
book of life will soon be opened, and the
dead will be judged out of the things Written
in the books.
"15th. The sixth vial was poured out
about the year 1822, when the Ottoman
power began to be dried up. This is an
important sign that we are on the brink of
the judgment day. Rev. xvi. 12. Every
writer of any note' will, and have, applied
this vial to the Turkish government, and of
course must acknowledge that this vial is
»
é_
sions or 'nm Truss. 69
poured out; for the
power
of the Turkish
government is but litt e more than 'a name,
and the strength of the Ottoman power
dried up.
"
16th. Daniel's vision of 2300 days long.
I have shown that Daniel's vision concern-
ing the four great monarchies which were,
or were to come, included the whole history
of the world, so far as God saw iit to reveal
it, down to the judgment day, and the com-
ing of the Son of man in the clouds. The
2300 days, as I have proved, are now nearly
accomplished.
"Lastly. Another sign of the last day you
will iind given 'by Paul, 1 Thess. v. 2, 3:
'
For yourselves know perfectly that the day
of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night.
For when they shall say, Peace and safety,
then sudden destruction cometh upon them,
as travail upon a woman with child; and
they shall not escape! Compare 2 Pet. ii.
17-22.
"The doctrine of peace and safety, and
that there is no unishment in the future
state, had but a ixdw or no advocates until
very recently. I am not certain but the first
preacher of this soul-destroying doctrine is
now living; and they now boast of their
multitudes of followers and advocates. There
have been in past ages a few who preached
the doctrine of the restoration of all men,
after a suitable punishment in hell; but to
modern Universalists belong the invention
T0 stems or 'run mins.
of preaching
'
peace and safety when sudden
destruction cometh! If this sign is not ful-
filled in the preachers of this order at this
time, I ask, how can it be fulfilled, and what
must the doctrine be of those who preach
'
peace and safetyl' Surely, no human being
can invent a doctrine so full of [promised]
'peace and safety
'
to the wicked as this;
and no other denomination on our globe ever
have opposed the doctrine of the coming of
Christ, the judgment day, and future punish-
ments, but the modern Universalists; and if
this is the doctrine that Paul had reference
to in our text, as I am fully satisfied every
candid and religious mind must and will
allow, then we may reasonably suppose
'sudden destructioncometh upon them, and
they shall not escape.'
"
Signs of the approaching crisis ofpopery.
There is a quarrel between the pope and the
king of Prussia. The king of Denmark has
lately laid a restriction on the Catholic priests
in his realm. The relations between the
pope and the government of Portugal are not
the most pleasant. All negotiations have
recently ceased between the papal and Span-
ish powers. The pope and the French are
at luggerheads. And the pope has also come
to a rupture with Russia. The late attempt
of the king of France to enforce popery on
the Sandwich Islands has met with universal
disapprobation and contempt.
sions or 'rit|'rnn|. 71
Aspect of things in the East. Who can
look at the present aspect of things in the
East and not be aroused. The Oriental
world is in a state of fermentation. The
skirts of a mighty tempest are already hung
around them. In reference to the Ottoman
empiref* (which is in reality such only in
narne,) the nations are looking on each other
with a. jealous eye. It seems to be the bait
that will serve to gather the nations up to
the battle of God Almighty. The howl-
ings of that gathering storm, have been
*Although the Ottoman or Turkish power yet has a.
name, it is only a name; it is not such in lhct. Singularly
in character with prophecy, its power departed in August,
1840. The following testimony is from the Rev. Mr.
Goodell, missionary ot' the American Board at Constanti-
nople, addressed to the Board, and by them published in
the Missionary Herald for April, 1841, p. 160.
"The power of Islamism is broken forever; and there
is no concealing the fact even from themselves. They
exist now
by mere sutTerance. And though there is a
mighty elfort made by the Christian governments to sus~
tain them, yet at every step they sink lower and lower
with fearful velocity. And though there is a great en-
deavor made to graft the institutions of civilized and
Christian countries upon the decayed trunk, yet the very
root itself is fast wasting away by the venom of its own
poison. How wonderful it is, that. when all Christendom
combined together to check the progress ot' Mahoinmcdan
power, it waxed exceedingly great in spite of every oppo-
sition; and now, when all the mighty potentates of Chris-
tian Europe, who feel fully competent to settle all the
quarrels, and arrange all the affairs of the whole world,
are leagued together for its protection and defence, down
it comes, in spite of all their fostering care.'f _
See also Second Advent Report, No. 2, Dissertation Ol
the Fall of the Ottoman Power.
T2 sums or 'rn Truss.
bome to us, as it were, upon the wings of the
wind, virtually saying, "The great day of
his wrath is at hand, and who shall be able
to stand 'l" Of the as cts in the east, a po-
litical editor says, "llgizghty elements are in
commotion, and the clouds of war seem to
be gathering over Europe and Asia. With
the cupidity of Great Britain, the jealousies
of France, the ambition of Nicholas and Me-
hemit Ali, the military power and taste of
Prussia and Austria, it would be remarkable
if another year should pass without a furious
and bloody war-a war of a sanguinary and
depopulating character, never before wit-
nessed or dreamed o£"*
Omens of the speedy downfall of Malzome-
danism, and of the signs of the times. The
grand sultan has been under the necessity of
a free toleration of all religions throughout
his empire. The pacha of Egypt has shown
his total disregard of that religion, by intro-
ducin European habits, customs, tactics,
dw.; is has also a disciplined army of 150,-
000 men, all mounted on Arabian horses, for
action against the sultan. Four European
potentates have guarantied the permanency
of thc Ottoman or Turkish empire. Russia
*
Although the great moral crater has emitted but a.
few visible Hamas for some months past, yet there is occa-
sionally a portentous rumbling, that a/dmonishes us of an
approaching and terrible
eruption. Things in the east are
fu from being settled, thoug many have flattered them-
selves it was so; late accounts show to the contrary.,
mens or rn: U3
has a vast army in Persia, watching the
movements, and ready to make common
cause with Egypt. The war between
France and 'Algiers is a part and parcel of
the same affairs. The press, also, is com-
bined in the work of melting down Mahom-
edanism; it is also introduced into China,
and its blazing light is scattering away the
errors of Confucius.
The angel of the everlasting covenant is
evidently sealing the elect of God for some
awful crisis. In the Sandwich Islands, with-
in twenty years, a church has been raised
of 16,000 souls, who were formerly cannibals.
Five of the Polynesian Isles, in heathen deg-
radation, have been converted, as it were, in
a day. ln Bengal, fifty-six heathen towns
have recently, as
by a miracle, received the
gospel; since which sixteen more have united
with them. More than one thousand red
men of the forest, beyond the Rocky Moun-
tains, have recently abandoned their roving
habits, and are becoming civilized. In dif-
ferent parts of the world, hundreds of thou-
sands of heathen are seeking and turning to
the gospel, under missionary influence; and,
to cap the mighty climax of God's astonish-
ing achievements in these last days, the
temperance reform, the army of redeemed
drunkards, is bringing up the rear. In Eu-
rope, Father Mathew, one single individual,
has administered more than _five millions of
pledges. In
élmerica,
within a. short time,
74 mens or rm: rnuzs.
as by a spontaneous and intuitive impulse, a
redeeming spell has come over the people,
and probably already hundreds of thousands
have taken the
pledge.
It is God's doings,
and it is marvel ous in our eyes.
Among the Jews throughout the world
there is a general movement and looking
toward the land of their fathers; their cruel
persecutions in Persia quicken their move-
ments. Four thousand Jews in Constanti-
nople have resolved to embrace the gospel in
one year, if their expected Messiah does not
come; four thousand more are iuider Chris-
tian instruction in Palestine, more than a
third of whom have embraced Christ; fifty-
four thousand have applied for aid to get to
Palestine, &c.
Many pages might be filled with such
items, showing that, under Providence, some
most important crisis is at hand. Who can
doubt it?
The state of the political world, at home
and abroad, the facilities for travelling, the
means of human destruction, &,c., all con-
spire to say, "The Judge standeth at the
door;" for all these facilities can be brought
galgaar,
to consummate the wrath of Almighty
o _
I would here call the attention of the
reader for a moment to the prophecy of Na-
hum, where he is giving a
description of the
chariots, as they shall appear in :he day of
God's rnnrnnron, that is, in the day when
sions or 'rma rmss.
75
he is preparing to speedily .come and take
his people home. See Nahum 3, 4 :
"
The
chariots shall be with flaming torches, in the
day of his preparation; the chariots shall
rage in the streets, they shall jostle one
against another in the broad ways; they
shall seem like torches, they shall run like
the lightnings." Now, when We see chariots
or carriages moving With flaming torches, as
it were, and hissing or raging in the broad
ways, and jostling one
against another, and
running like the
lightninfg,
we may rest as-
sured that it is the day o God's preparation,
and that he is nigh to come. Remember,
God has not left you without a witness.
Beware!
There seems to be something almost intui-
tive, that carries conviction to the minds of
the disceming of all classes, that an event
unprecedented in character is
just bursting
upon us. That event, from the word of God,
and the signs of the times, is evidently "the
glorious appearing of our Lord, who will
come in the clouds of heaven, with power
and great glory, to be admired in all them
that believe in that day; and to receive his
ransomed bride home. Ye saints of the Most
High, lift up your heads, for your redemption
draweth nigh." It is an event, too, when the
Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven
in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them
that obey not the gospel. 2 Thess. i. 7-18.
O, impenitent man or woman, where will
sums or 'ran Truss. -
you be, when the voice of the archangel and
the trump of God shall rend the heavens, and
the distant realms shall echo back the sound,
"The great day of his 'wrath is come ! "
when the atmosphere shall be ignited into a.
universal flame, and "the elements shall
melt with fervent heat; when the earth and
the works therein shall be burnt up !" U11-
less you repent, believe, and obey the gospel,
your doom will be fearful. God has given
,us warnings of his approaching judgments.
Vlfhy not take warning from the past 'I You
have examples; think of the world in the
days of Noah, Sodom, Gomorrah, Jerusalem,
dw. God has appointed a
day, in which he
will judge the whole world. "Can ye not
discern the signs of the times?" God`s word
shall not fail. `Don't presume; but O! be
warned; repent; fly, fly for refuge to the
Lord Jesus Christ, the ark of safety. By
the mercies of God-the love of the Savior-
tlre worth of the soul--the desire of heaven
--the terrors of hell-by all that is soul-
inspiring, be persuaded to fly, and tarry not
in all the plain, but escape for thy life.
ié
