{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1842__fowler___fowler_on_memory.pdf","mytitle":"Fowler On Memory","mylang":"de"}
F 870
7
$42
spy 1
/
3WLER ON MEMORY
PHRENOLOGY
APPLIED TO THE
CULTIVATION OF MEMORY:
THE
INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION OF CHILDREN, AND
THE STRENGTHENING AND EXPANDING
OF THE
Intellectual Powers.
BY O. S. FOWLER,
i
PRACTICAL PHENOLOGIST,
Editor of the American Phrenological Journal; Author of "Phrenology Proved,
Illustrated, and Applied ;" " Phrenology and Physiology applied to Mat-
rimony ; do, to Temperance ; do. to Education and Self-
Improvement," &c. &c. &c, &c.
intellectual enjoyment greatly surpasses physical pleasure.
5 NEW-YORK:
0. S. & L. N. FOWLER, IN CLINTON HALL; 131 NASSAU-ST.
E. E. BARCLAY.
For sale by J. R. Colon, 203 1-2 Chesnut Street, Philadelphia; Saxton & Pierce,
Washington St. Boston ; R. L. Adams, Democrat Office, Rochester, N. Y.
;
and by many Booksellers.
1842.
CONTENTS. <<A\
Uses and value of a retentive memory, t V* r 1
All man's feelings and actions should be governed by
intellect* : : : : : : 2
Improving the intellect by enlarging the organs; : 3
Value of this principle, and means of attaining this en-
largement, :::::: 4
The exercise of the faculties, the only means of
strengthening them, and of enlarging their organs, 5
To excite a faculty, its true functions must be known,
and a natural stimulant presented, : : : 6
Analysis and adaptation of Individuality, : : 7
Teaching children from observation first, books afterwards, 8
Common School studies injurious instead of beneficial, 9
Teaching children to reason fronrobserving and compar-
ing facts, : : : : : : 11
The course of Education pointed out by Phrenology, 12
Parents should educate their own children, : : 13
Analysis, adaptation, and importance of Eventuality, 14
Means of strengthening the memory of events, : 15
Childen's " setting on a bench, and saying A." : : 16
Telling children stories, : : : : 17
Decrease of memory in adults caused by its inaction, 18
Those whose business requires the exercise of memory,
have it strong ; those who charge it with nothing,
are forgetful, : : : : : 19
The Author's experience, : : : ? : 21
Striking facts.in illustration of this point, : : 22
McGrugan's experience, : : : : : 24
Reviewing the events each day, week, &c. at its close, 24
Facilitating this by rendering our own children's lives
agreeable, :' : : : : : 25
Showing children phrenological and other experiments, 26
Then the principles on which they depend, : : 27
Analysis, adaptation, and function of Comparison, : 28
This faculty the basis of most of our knowledge, and
the main element in reasoning, : : : 29
Comparisons and explanations easily understood by
children, : : : : : : 31
Answering all their questions and explaining principles, 31
Analysis and adaptation of Casuality, : : 32
Means of cultivating it by thinking and reasoning, : 33
Giving children the data to think for themselves, : 34
Causes of diminution of intellect, &c. :
6
: 36
Analysis, adaptation, and means of cultivating Language, 40
All shildren are talkers, and should not be restrained, 42
Teaching.children grammar by parents using good language 44
Analysis and adaptation of Form, : ' : : 46
Teach them to read by teachiug words instead of letters, 48
v
V
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1842,
BY O. S. FOWLER,
in the Clerk's Office of the Southern District of New York.
PHRENOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY
jj
APPLIED TO THE
CULTIVATION OF MEMORY
;
*
TO THE
. INTELLECTUAL EDUCATION OF CHILDREN
;
^ V AND THE
\i\.* STRENGTHENING AND EXPANDING OF THE INTELLECT.
BY O. S. FOWLER
PRACTICAL PHRENOLOGIST
^ • These subjects are of vast importance to each and every
^ VKjnember of the human family, but especially to parents and
\ \ the young. To descant upon the value or utility of memory,
> would be superfluous. I appeal to you who are rich, if you
would not gladly give your all, the necessaries of life alone
l
O excepted, for a clear and retentive memory of all you have
\
v
ever seen, or heard, or known. What would not you, lawyers
C and physicians give, to be able, without notes, to recall, clearly
r v >i and in order, every point of your evidence, every fact in your
\ .
practice, every point in the authors you have ever read ? Sim-
>
\\ ilar remarks apply to men of business, to whom a retentive
>
N
memory is, if possible, still more serviceable. How often has
^ \ the reader felt mortified in the extreme, and angry with him-
*
self, because he has forgotten something he intended to say or
v$Y/ do ? How great the consequent inconvenience, and delay, and
even loss, which a good memory would have avoided ? How
^ much more powerful and effective is that speaker who candis-
y\"pense with notes, yet say all he wishes ; and, by the aid of a
\ clear and retentive memory, can bring to his aid thoughts and
\
V arrangements previously prepared ? In short, is there any oc-
\\W cupation in life in which nearly everv kind of memory is not
l
v-
«N
% ADAPTATION OP THE FACULTIES.
most useful7 In many it is indispensable. We ask parents
whether transmitting to their children vigorous intellects and
retentive memories, is not one of the richest legacies they can
leave them ? and whether a poor memory, one that is treach-
erous to its trust, is not a sad misfortune ?
Again: To be pioductive of pleasure, every action of our
lives must be governed by intellect, which is only another
name for experience and correct judgment. The man of feel-
ing and impulse, is a man of sorrow and misfortune. The pro-
pensities are blind, and blindly seek gratification ; whereas,
intellect directs them into the paths of virtue and happiness.
We grant, indeed, that the assistance of the moral faculties is
also indispensable, yet without intellect, even they are "blind
leaders of the blind ;" producing all the anomalies and abomi-
nations of paganism. Aided by intellect, men accomplish much ' /
more, and that far better than without it, doing with their heads *
what unintellectual men do with their hands.
And then again; how rich are the Measures of knowledge !
How delightful the study of nature ! "Knowledge is power."
'
'
Man is so constituted that to study the laws and phenomena of
nature—to witness chemical, philosophical, and other experi- *
ments—to explore the bowels of the earth, and to examine the *
beauties, the curiosities, and the wonders of its surface—to
learn lessons of infinite power and wisdom as taught by as-
tronomy—but more especially to study living, animated na-
ture—to observe its adaptations and contrivances—in short, to
study nature in all her beauty, and variety, and perfection, '
constitutes a source of the highest possible gratification of >
which the human mind is susceptible.
The mind of man is capable of improvement, and to a de-
gree truly astonishing, far surpassing what is generally sup-
posed. The importance of education and intellectual attain-
*
ments, is admitted by all, yet few know how to conduct the •
former, or attain the latter. In order to educate or discipli?ie
the mind, its nature, primary powers, and laws of action
must be understood. This, few parents or teachers even pre-
tend to understand; and hence, millions of money are annually '
y
expended, and thousands of teachers constantly employed, -
almost in vain. As well attempt to navigate the ocean with- „
out the compass, survey the land without the needle, study as-
THE INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES ANALYZED. 3
ironomy without the telescope, or attempt any thing else with-
out knowing what requires to be done, or how to do it, as un-
dertake to educate the young or discipline your own mind with.,
out first understanding the primary faculties of the mind, as
well as its laws of action. To be successful, education and
intellectual culture must be adapted to the mental faculties,
and also conducted in harmony with the laws of mind. These,
Phrenology explains most beautifully and clearly; thereby
furnishing the only correct guide to parents and teacheas. The
objects of this work, therefore, will be i
1. To ANALYZE THE INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES; and
2. To SHOW HOW TO IMPROVE THEM.
That is, to show how to improve every kind of memory ;
how to conduct the intellectual education of children and
youth ; and, how to strengthen and expand the intellect; as
well as how to acquire knowledge—objects, both individually
and collectively, of the highest possible importance, especial-
ly to parents, teachers, the young, and those who are studying
a profession.
It should here be remembered that, according to Phrenology,
every organ can be enlarged? and the power and activity of
every faculty, greatly augmented. As the exercise of any part
of the body, as of the arm, foot, &c, causes the blood to flow
more freely to the exercised part, so the exercise of any phre-
nological organ, causes the blood to flow to that organ in pro-
portion as it is exercised, and this blood contains matter for
enlarging these parts, which it does in proportion to its abund-
ance. This important point is fully explained and proved
in my work on " Phrenology and Physiology applied to Ed-
ucation nnd Self-Improvement."* #
I contemplate no fact or principle in nature with more in-
tense delight, and glory in propagating none more than this
doctrine of the enlargement of the organs.. It shows how
to improve the immortal mind, how to educate our race,
how to diminish human suffering, and promote man's highest
*This work embraces the portion of that work which is devoted to
the cultivation of the memory and the intellectual education of children.
The reader will doubtless find the whole of that work worthy of a care-
ful perusal. At least, this will serve as a sample of that.
4 INCREASE OF THE ORGANS BY EXERCISE,
happiness. It holds out, in the language of demonstration, to
one and all, a sovereign remedy, a panacea, for all intellectual
weaknesses and moral maladies. Is your memory short or
treacherous to its trust, it shows you how to strengthen it. If
any of your passions predominate, it teaches you how to re-
duce their power and activity ; or, if any faculty be weak or
inactive, it shows how to cultivate and invigorate it.
But it is to parents that it holds out by far the brightest star
of promise. You love your children as you love your own
souls, and are even more anxious to improve them than your-
self, because you are too apt to regard your season for improve-
ment as past. You are ever ready to expend your time or your
money, upon their intellectual or moral education; but, unfor-
tunately, hitherto you have only groped your way in the dim
twilight, while this principle opens upon you the full orb
of reason and mental science—the only correct guides to the
results you seek. But let it be remembered that so precious a
jewel as mental and moral improvement, cannot be purchased,
or obtained by proxy, or inherited, except in its rudiments,
but must be cultivated, and that by every one for himself.
Parents and teachers may indeed place the proper means or
mental stimulants before the minds of the young, just as they
may place nourishing food before them, but can no more exer-
cise the minds of children for them, than they can eat, or
sleep, or breaihe, or die for them.
Reader, do you desire to know how this can be effected ? Do
you wish this mine of self-improvement opened, so that you
may begin now to lay up its richest treasures ? Then give us
your ear. The means of mental culture are simple, easily
applied, and within the reach of all ; and, they are certain and
powerful. They consist --simply in exercising the organs
you wish to improve ; and, in not exercising those you wish
to restrain. This, every one must do for himself, and do it,
not "here a little and there a little," but habitually ; and, the
"richest harvests mortals can reap, will crown your efforts
—
harvests infinitely richer than all the mines of the world, be-
cause harvests of moral pleasure and intellectual attainment;
harvests as far above all earthly possessions, as mind is superi
or to matter.
Will you sow, that you may reap this harvest ? or, will you
MEANS OF EXCITING THE FACULTIES. 5
fold your arms, and allow your brain, at least in pait, to die ;
yes,
to die while you live, merely from inaction ? Does not the glori-
ous truth, just presented, inspire your hope, and nerve your
determination to carry forward your intellectual and moral at-
taiments as high in the scale of improvement as nature will
allow ? Already, you eagerly ask, " how can we exercise our
faculties, so as to enlarge the organs ? how bring them into
vigorous and continuous exercise? how discipline the intellects,
and call out the moral feelings of children and youth? Listen
again, to
THE MEANS OF EXCITING THE FACULTIES.
Every faculty has its own proper aliment or stimulant, the
presentation of which naturally induces spontaneous action.
Thus, Alimentiveness is stimulated, not by gold or diamonds,
but by food, its natural exciter. Hence, the sight of food, or
seeing others eat, or even the taste or smell of food, excites
hunger ; whereas, without these natural stimulants, Alimen-
tiveness would have remained quiescent. Acquisitiveness is
stimulated to action by property, or the possession of things,
&c., but not by food, or distress, or danger. Causality is ex-
cited to action by bringing causes within its reach. To ex-
cite and thereby strengthen this faculty, think, reason, inquire
into the causes of things, and trace out the relations between
causes and effects—that is, bring this faculty into action
upon* the causes, principles, and laws of things. Combative-
ness is excited by opjjosition, not by beef-steak, or money, or
a fact in philosophy. Approbativeness is excited by praise
or reproach ; Benevolence, by suffering ; Reverence, by
thoughts of God; Conscientiousness, by right and wrong;
Ideality, by the beautiful, exquisite, or perfect; Mirthfulness,
by the laughable or ridiculous; Locality, by travelling; Cau
tiouseness, by danger, &c.
But mark : one faculty cannot perform the function of any
other, or supply its place. Though a person having Acquis-
itiveness small, may make money to leave his children rich,
or to show off, or to aid the poor, or to furnish the means of
acquiring knowledge ;
yet, these motives neither excite nor
enlarge Acquisitiveness ; for, the first is an exercise of Philo-
progenitiveness ; the second, of Approbativeness ; the third,
6 ADAPTATION OF THE FACULTIES.
of Benevolence ; the fourth, of Intellect, &c. To exercise
Acquisitiveness, therefore, he must make and love money to
possess and hoard—must love property to lay up, and for its
own sake. You may eat a meal, not because you relish it,
but because a certain hour has come—that is, from Time, not
Alimentiveness. Fighting desperately from motives of honor,
and not from love of fighting, is no more an exercise of Com-
bativeness or Destruetivenessr than the apparent fondness, in
company, of a husband and wife who cordially hate each
other, is an exercise of pure connubial love.
This illustration shows, first, that the precise nature, or le-
gitimate function of every faculty, must be known, as well
as its natural aliment or stimulant ; and, secondly, that this
stimulant must be placed before the faculty so as to excite it,
in order thereby to enlarge it.
The first thing to be done, then, is to obtain a knowledge
of the function of every faculty, that we may know how to
excite it. To impart this knowledge, we shall briefly analyze
each faculty ; and, in order to do this in the shortest and most
effectual method possible, we shall point out the adaptation
of each to its counterpart in nature, or to the end it attains in
the economy of man. Thus, Philoprogenitiveness is adapted
to the infantile condition of man ; Causality, to the arrange-
ment or laws of cause and effect ; Cautiousness, to our being
in a world of danger ; Benevolence, to the sufferings of man-
kind ; Alimentiveness, to the requirement and arrangement of
digestion ; Constructiveness, to our need of clothes, houses,,
and things that are made, &c. We know of no short-hand
method of impressing indelibly, the nature and function of the
faculties at all to be compared to this,, united with definitions
instead of descriptions. Remembering this adaptation of a
faculty to its object, is comparatively easy, and this reveals its
true function.
The reader is now prepared to enter upon the analysis ofthe
intellectual faculties which will point out the various kinds of
memory; and, then upon the means of strengthening and
improving the memory, as well as securing mental discipline.
The organs of the intellectual faculties, occupy the forehead.
The rule for ascertaining the amount of brain devoted to the
intellectual organs is this: Erect a perpendicular line from the
ANALYSIS OP INDIVIDUALITY. 7
most prominent part of the zigomatic arch—that bone which
commences just in front of the ear and runs towards the eye
—
and the amount of brain forward of that line, indicates the
size of the intellectual lobe. This method of measuring the
intellectual lobe, is far better than that of measuring from the
ears forward, which is very imperfect, first, becase it measures
a part of the propensities ; and secondly, because the organs are
sometimes short and broad, and sometimes slim, or long in pro-
portion to their breadth.
These faculties are usually divided into two classes; yet, we
are satisfied that making a third class will still farther faciliate
their study. The first developed of these, as well as the most
important, are the organs in the middle portion of the fore-
head, embracing Individuality, Eventuality, and Comparison,
which might be called the knowing organs, being the first,
if not the main, channels through which a knowledge of things,
especially of the phenomena and laws of things, flows into the
mind. All children will be found to have a great fulness, if
not marked prominence, commencing above the nose, and ex-
tending upward through the middle of the forehead, to its up-
per part; and, in accordance with this development, all children
have an insatiable curiosity to see, see, see everything ; to
know all about whatever is passing; and to ask what is this,
and what is that ; together with a remarkably retentive mem-
ory of stories, facts, and what they have seen, heard, or read.
Besides being a proof of the truth of Phrenology, this shows
how to educate children ; namely, by showing them things,
rather than hooks—by exhibiting facts, and explaining the op-
erations and phenomena of nature. But the force of this
remark will be the mora evident after we have analyzed these
organs separately. They are
INDIVIDUALITY :
Or observation of thi?igs: curiosity to see and examine ob-
jects : examination of things as independent existences,
and in their isolated capacity.
This is the looking faculty. Its one distinctive function is to
see things. \t&sks"what is this, and ivhat is that?" It
creates that intellectual curiosity, as well as that instinctive de-
sire to examine»and discover things, which has resulted in most
of the discoveries in modern science, improvements in agricul
8 TEACHING CHILDREN THINGS FIRST, BOOKS AFTERWARDS.
ture, the arts, &c. It constitutes the stepping-stone, or dooi
of entrance through which a knowledge of things, as things,
is received into the mind, and takes cognizance of what is
called the divisibility of matter, or that quality which allows
a body to be divided and subdivided " ad infinitum" while
each portion cut orf still remains a distinct thing.
Adaptation,—On looking at any thing, say a book or pen,
the first impression received from it is, that it. is a thing. It
is its personality, its individuality, its thingness, which first
enters the mind. Before we can examine its properties or
uses, we must know that it is a something. Matter is parcelled
out into things without number, each of which has a separate
existence of its own. Thus, who can count the sands upon the
sea shore, or the leaves or twigs of the forest, or the particles
of matter ? And yet, each, in its very nature, has a separate
existence of its own. To this necessary property of matter,
theiefore, this faculty is adapted.
.. The infant of a few hours, or at least, days old, begins to
look at surrounding objects, to gaze, and stare, and notice. In-
deed, this appears to be the first intellectual organ exercised ;
and, during childhood and youth, it evinces this curiosity to
see, and handle every thing, to pull things apart so as to see
what is inside of them, &c, seeming to be one of the strongest
intellectual desires and functions of children.
This looking tendency of children is too strong, too univer-
sal to be mistaken, and the result to which it leads is equally
general—equally conclusive. It says, and in language too
loud, too plain to be unheard or misunderstood—the language
of nature—that children must be taught by observation, first
and mainly, from books, afterward and secondarily. This
curiosity of children, and the extraordinary development of
Individuality in them, expose the fallacy of the almost uni-
versal opinion, that they can neither learn nor know any
thing till they can read and spell, and of the custom of consu-
ming five or more years of the most valuable portion of their
ives, upon reading and spelling. The fact is, education
is begun at the wrong end, and continued wrong through-
out. Should we not follow the order in which their organs
are developed ? Shall we put them to studying subjects which
they have not yet the powers to comprehend ? As well set the
blind to select colors, or the deaf to learn music.
MODERN EDUCATION DETRIMENTAL. 9
This error is almost fatal to intellectual exercise, and of
course to the development either of the intellectual organs or
their faculties. Reading is arbitrary, and requires a vigor-
ous and protracted exercise of intellect : observation is perfect-
ly natural and easy, as much so as breathing or sleeping.
Learning to read is irksome, and therefore repulsive, while
observation is delightful ; and all know with how much more
ease and profit the mind engages in that mental study which is
agreeable. Learning to read does not interest children, and
therefore does not exercise, and hence cannot enlarge, their in-
tellectual organs, while observation, having things shown and
explained to them, delights them beyond measure. Teach
children things first, books afterwards, thereby calling the in-
tellectual organs into powerful action, which enlarges them,
and strengthens their faculties. No wonder mankind are so un-
intellectual. No wonder they will flock by thousands to see
monkey shows, circus exhibitions, &c, but take little interest
in purely scientific or intellectual matters. True, they flock to
hear an eloquent speaker, because he rouses their feelings; yet,
how few go to hear close reasoning, or see an exhibition of
facts. No wonder that mankind spend most of their time, de-
sires, &c, upon the gratification of their feelings and passions,
and that even their religious belief and practice are mainly a
matter of education or feeling. This lamentable deficiency of
intellect is certainly not constitutional, or the fault of man's
nature ; for, as already seen, Phrenology lays down the doc-
trine as fundamental and universal, that intellect should direct
and govern all our feelings, even the moral and religious : and
that what nature requires, she provides. She requires the as-
cendency of the intellect, and, accordingly, all children have
superior intellects ; far better, in proportion, than adults. How
much oftener will the reader see fine foreheads on children than
on grown persons ? But why this relative increase of organs
destined by nature to guide and sway man ? For the same
reason that colored children have better heads than colored
adults, and colored people at the North, than those at the
South: namely, because nature does more for them than edu-
cation perfects—because they become weak from mere inac-
tion. The cause of this inaction, we have given, namely,
want of interest in their studies; and this want of interest
10 EVILS OF SENDING YOUNG CHILDREN TO SCHOOL.
is because their studies are above their comprehension, and not
adapted to their faculties.
We know, indeed, that we are advocating a bold innovation
;
that we are sapping, or rather undermining the very foundation
of education ; that we are demolishing, at a single stroke, an
idol to which parents cling as they do to their children them-
selves, and on whose altar millions are sacrificed in body, and
nearly all in mind—but we cannot help it; for, our data is
Phrenology, and our inferences conclusive. From the uni-
versal fact that Individuality is the first and most prominently
developed intellectual organ of children, there is no appeal
;
and, from our inference that, therefore, this organ should be
brought into habitual action in them ; that to shoiv and explain
things to them should even be the leading object of early ed-
ucation, is direct and unequivocal. That teaching them to
read and spell, exercises their observing powers but little, or at
least not to any extent worth naming, is self-evident. It absolute-
ly prevents observation, instead of promoting it. What is there
within the walls of a school house for children to see ? Abso-
lutely nothing*
1
but an occasional prank of some mischievous
scholar, at which, if they see, they naturally laugh, for which
they get chastised or boxed over the ears, accompanied with a
"There, now, see that you keep your eyes on your book." As
well chastise them for breathing, or for being hungry ! Shut
out from the view of objects at school, and mostly confined
within doors while at home, no Wonder that they lose their
curiosity, and find their intellects enfeebled. Their arms, or
feet, or any other physical organ, if laid up in a sling, or pre-
vented from exercise, would also'become enfeebled. At thre<$
years old, just when they require all the physical energies of
their yet delicate nature f >r growth, they must be confined in
a school house ; their growth thereby stinted; and often fatal
disease engendered, and all to spoil their intellects. True,
parents mean it for the best, but that no more obviates the evil
consequences, than to give them arsenic, intending to benefit
them, would prevent its killing them.
But this bold, and at first apparently revolting position* is
still farther established by observing the method by which the
human mind arrives at all correct conclusions. Reasoning alone,
without its being founded upon observation, cannot teach any
OBSERVATION MUST PRECEDE REASONING. 11
thing. Would reason alone have ever discovered, or ever per-
fected, Phrenology? Can reason teach us, in the first instance,
that a function of a muscle is motion, or of a nerve, sensation ;
that the eye was made to see ; that heat can be obtained from
trees? that water can quench thirst, and food satiate hunger?
that a stone thrown into the air will fall again to the earth?
Observation must always precede reasoning. After we have
seen thousands of stones that were thrown into the air return
to the earth ; seen food satiate hunger, and water quench thirst,
thousands of times, &c, we may then begin to reason that other
stones thrown into the air, will also fall to the earth, that food in
other cases will satisfy hunger, and water allay thirst, &c. '
The
inductive method of studying nature, namely, by observing
facts, and ascending through analogous facts up to the laws
that govern them, is the only way to arrive at correct conclu-
1
sions—the only safe method of studying any science or opera-
tion of nature, Phrenology included, or of ascertaining any
truth in nature.
Now, the minds of children are only the minds of adults in
embryo. The former are compelled, by an unbending law
of mind, to gain all their knowledge by the same process by
which the latter perfect theirs—by observation, followed by
reason. Then let children be taught this lesson of induction as
their first lesson, their main lesson during childhood. This
lesson never falsifies ; books and papers sometimes do ; and
thereby bias and warp their judgment, implant errors, and
blind reason.
We now appeal whether we are not on philosophical ground,
as well as phrenological—whether we are not planted on a law
of mind, and whether education should not be made to conform
to it. Is not this point self-evident ? and should not education
be at once remodeled in harmony with it ? We doubt whether
fifty years will pass, if twenty, before this fundamental change
will be brought about. We even expect to live to see it, even
though the good (?) old way is so thoroughly rivited upon the
affections of parents. But let every reader ask himself what
good his books did him while a child ? Let him look around,
and he will doubtless find, what we have been astonished to
observe, that many men having the strongest minds as well as
memories, and the best business talents, do not know how to
12 INDIVIDUALITY CULTIVATED.
read or write. Let him ask which is preferable, book-learning,
or common sense? a college learned sapling, or a strong-minded,
common sense citizen who cannot read ? and train his children
accordingly.
Not that we would have reading, writing, and spelling neg-
lected, but we would make them secondary; both as to time,
and as to intrinsic importance.
The course pointed out by Phrenology, then, is simply this.
Even before your child is three months old, place a variety of
objects before it ; take it into rooms and places which it has
not yet seen ; hold it often to the window to look abroad upon
nature, and see things that may be passing, &c. At six
months, take hold of the things shown it, and call them by
name, as plate, bowl, knife, fork, spoon, table, bed, &c. 'At
one and two years old, take it out of doors much, (which will
strengthen its body as well as afford increased facilities for
seeing things,) show it flowers, trees, leaves, fruit, animals,
&c, in their ever-varying genera and species ; and when it
asks you " Pa, what is this ?" " Ma, what is that ?" instead of
chiding them with an " Oh, dear, you pother me to death with
your everlasting questions, do hush up," take pains to explain
all, and even to excite their curiosity to know more. Take
them daily into your fields, or gardens, or shops, and while
you are procuring them the means of physical support and
comfort, store their minds with useful knowledge. Even if
they hinder you, rejoice; remembering that you are developing
their immortal minds—a matter of infinitely greater impor
tance than adorning their persons, or leaving them rich, &c.
As they become three and four years old, take them to the
Museum : show them all the fish, birds, animals &c. Tell them
all that is known about the habits, actions, and condition of
each, (not all in a day, or in a year,) and provide them with
books on natural history, with explanatory cuts, (what, for
children to read before they have learned their letters ? no,
but) so that, as they clamber upon your lap, and fold their filial
arms around your willing neck, you may show them these pic-
tures, and read what is said of their habits, dispositions, modes
of life, &c. Show them the minerals, their diversity, colors,
kinds, &c. ; and then take them into the laboratory of nature,
PARENTS SHOULD BE TEACHERS. 13
and show them the operations of the chemical and philosoph-
ical world.
Take them again into your garden ; show them a pretty-
flower, (reader, did you ever see a child that was not extraor-
dinarily fond of flowers ?) show them its parts and the uses of
of each; the calyx and its texture and location as adapted to
the protection of the flower ; the petals and their office ; the
stamins, and their office ; the pistil, and all its other parts, with
the uses and functions of each, and your child will be delighted
beyond measure. The next day, show it another and different
flower ;
point out their resemblances and differences, and you
not only gratify, or rather excite and develope your child's in-
tellectual curiosity, but also teach it to analyze, compare, clas-
sify, &c.—the first step in reasoning.
" But I do not know enough," says one parent. Then go
and learn. Let young ladies spend less time over their toilet,
music, love-tales, parties, " setting their caps," &c, so that
they can learn the more, and be the better qualified to culti-
vate the intellects of their children. Parents are solemnly
"bound, in duty to their children and their God, not to become
parents till they aie qualified to educate and govern their chil-
dren.
" But I have not the time" says another. Then you should
not have time to marry. Take time first to do what is most
important. But more hereafter on the duties of parents to
educate their own children, and also of the qualifications
requisite for this most responsible office. We will first show
how to educate children, and then, how to find time to do it.
And yet, strange inconsistency, many young people rush head-
long into the marriage state, totally unqualified to train up
their children, either intellectually or morally. And it is still
more strange, that, with all the interest felt in this subject, afrd
alljthe efforts made to improve it, we have only made matters
worse ; because, the modern systems of education are not
founded in the nature of man ; but, in nearly every feature,
are in direct violation of that nature, especially of the natures
of children.
Having thus laid the foundation of education in observa-
tion, not books, we proceed to build its first story, which
consists in the cultivation of
14 CULTIVATION OF MEMORY.
EVENTUALITY.*
Or desire to witness or make experiments : to find out what
is: to know what has been, or to ascertain what will be
:
love of knowledge : thirst for information: desire to
hear and relate anecdotes: recollection of action, phe-
nomena, occurrences, circumstances, historical facts, the
news of the day, events, 8?c.
Adaptation.—Nature is one great theatre of action, mo-
tion, and change. These ehanges, or operations, are almost
infinite in number arid variety. Rivers are ever running, the
tides ebbing and flowing ; the seasons going and returning
;
vegetation springing up, arriving at maturity, or returning to
decay ; and all nature, whether animate or inanimate, undergo-
ing one continual round of changes. Man, so far from being ex-
empt from this law, is a perfect illustration of it. In-
stead of being placed in the midst of one monotonous now,
one unchanging sameness, his heart is eVer^beating, blood al-
ways flowing, lungs ever in motion, and his mind (at least in its
waking state) experiencing a number and variety of incidents
or events never to be told ; for, the very recital of them, would
only double their number. Innumerable historical events have
been continually transpiring from the first dawn of human
existence, until now, widening and varying with the addition
of every successive being to our race. To be placed in a one-
condition state, in which no changes or events occur, would
preclude all happiness ; for, the very experiencing of pleasure
or pain, or even of any mental exercise, is itself an event.
Even the sciences themselves are only an enumeration of the
operations, or the doings of nature. Or, in case these changes
existed, if man had no primary faculty which could take cog-
nizance of them, or remember them, nature would be a
sealed book ; suffering and enjoyment impossible ; experience?
our main guide to certain knowledge, and the best of teachers,
unknown ; and all the memory of the past and even of our
own past existence, obliterated.
Eventuality, therefore, adapts man to his existence in a world
of changes or events ; lays up -rich treasures of knowledge ;
*In this work, we shall pay but little attention to the order m which
authors describe the organs ; but, in this portion of it, shall analyze the
organs either in the order of their natural connextion and development,
or importance, as will best present and enforce our ideas.
CULTIVATION. OF EVENTUALITY. 15
recalls what we have seen, heard, read, or experienced; is the
main store-house of experimental knowledge ; and, aids reason
in teaching us what will be from what has been. The function
of no intellectual faculty is more important, and the loss of
none, more injurious. Its development follows closely upon that
of Individuality; being one of the earliest and strongest intel-
lectual faculties manifest in children. Without this to retain
the knowledge they are hourly acquiring, they could not ad
vance a single step in acquiring that experimental knowledge
of things, the application of which is indispensable in every
thing we say or do. .The constitution of the human mind re-
quires that Individuality, or a craving curiosity to see every
thing, should be developed and exercised before reason, or any
other intellectual faculty can be brought into action ; and, sec-
ondly, that Eventuality or memory of things seen, and knowl-
edge acquired, should follow next; and, that these two mental
operations should constitute the main body of all our knowl-
edge, as well as the only correct basis of all reasoning. Infer-
ences, not drawn from facts, or not founded in them, are val-
ueless. Reason without facts, is like an eye in total darkness,
or rather, reasoning cannot exist without being based on facts
;
or, more properly, reasoning is only a general fact, a law which
governs a given class of nature's operations. This arguing
and drawing inferences independent of facts is not reasoning,
only guessing, or surmising, or giving a therefore, without a
wherefore, which is no guide to truth, and worse than valueless;
for, like an " ignis fatuus," it only misleads.
These remarks, though they present the function of Event-
uality in its true light, by no means do justice to its importance,
which it is impossible for words to express. Still, they show
the necessity of its cultivation in children, and that every other
faculty, except observation, which is its twin-sister, must give
way to its improvement. We shall next consider,
THE MEANS OP STRENGTHENING MEMORT OP EVENTS.
This can be effected only by callirtg it into vigorous and
habitual exercise ; and;
this' must be done, particularly in
children, by keeping before the mind interesting events to be
remembered. All this can not ^be done in school ; for, little
occurs there to be remembered except their plays. A short
story will best illustrate and enforce fiis point.
20 NOTE DOWN THINGS TO BE REMEMBERED,
bered, the only difficulty being in remembering names—a point
to which, till recently, I never attended; and now, only slightly.
In Boston, having occasion to order an article by packet from
Philadelphia, on taking out my pencil to write the name of
the ship and captain, its leads were out, and no means of making
the memoranda were at hand. Applying this principle, I
thought it over and over and over again, till "The Robt. Wain,"
Capt. Martin, was indelfbly impressed upon my recollection.
In visiting families—and I often have appointments every eve-
ning for three weeks ahead—I never allow -myself to note down
either name, date, street, number, or hour, or the number to
be examined, and all from practising the principle I am ur-
ging. Nor would the gold of the world, if such a thing were
possible, buy of me the mere improvement in the various kinds
of memory effected by this course. Let the reader practise it,
and in five years, he, too, will say the same. Nay, more.
Doubtless every reader may double the power of any kind, or
of all kinds, of memory in six months, and improve it fifty
per cent in one month. At least, it is worth the trial—which
is only the vigorous and habitual exercise of your mind upon
what you wish to remember; a simple remedy, but a glorious
result.
Following out this principle, I seldom lecture from notes,
but from memory alone ; though never commit, in which, not
having practised, I do not excel. My work on Phrenology
was composed, not from notes, but from recollecting the heads
and characters of those described in it ; and, I could fill ten
more just such volumes from the same source, without depart-
ing one iota from what was said at the examination, except
omitting unimportant parts.
These remarks about myself, which might be greatly extend-
ed, are not prompted by a boastful spirit; for, I claim no great
credit for doing what my business compels me to do ; but, by
a desire to present the reader with a scene from real life as a
'
sample of the means of exercising, and thereby improving, the
powers of memory, especially, of Eventuality, as well as to
illustrate the great law on which the education of the opening
mind should be conducted. I will just add, that the study cf
Phrenology far exceeds "all the mental exercises I everexperi
•need or read of, for disciplining the memory, and improving
THIS METHOD TAUGHT IN THE BIBLE. 17
no mode equally delightful to them, and, I might add, equally
profitable.
There is a vast amount of common sense and human nature
in the Bible. To say nothing of its authenticity, how perfectly
it harmonizes with this principle, when it directs the children
of Israel to "tell the Lord's doings to their children, and their
childrens' children, and they again to theirs, by the way-side,
and by the fire-side, when you lay down, and when you rise
up." "Write them upon the doors," &c, that they may be a
perpetual token of remembrance, &c. In other words : Tell
your children, y*our grand-children, and your great grand-chil-
dren, the story of God's dealings with the children of Israel;
their sojourn in Egypt ; their departure ; their wanderings in
the desert; their rebellions, and all the incidents connected with
Jewish history. The tenacious adherence of this nation to
their ancient customs, renders it highly probable that this in-
junction is followed more or less to this day ; and, accordingly,
we have invariably found Eventuality surprisingly large in
the Jews ; larger than in any other class we examine. It is
probably not too much to add, that our best oriental and his-
torical scholars are Jews. From what we have seen of them
in this respect, we unhesitatingly assert, that they far exceed
any other people. But of this the reader can judge for himself.
What history equals that of jffsephus for accuracy or minute-
ness of detail ? And is not the Bible, considered merely as a
history/characterized for the same qualities ?
Again : The North American Indians perpetuate their histo-
ries in the memories of the rising race. The old grand-father,
too feeble to wield the tomahawk, or chase the stag, takes his
little grand-son upon his' knee, and recounts to him, with a
minuteness and accuracy of which we can form no idea, the
battles he has fought, the enemies he has killed, and the man-
ner of killing them, his journeys and every little circumstance
connected therewith, even to the starting of a deer, or the fly-
ing of an owl ; as well as the looks of the country, the mount-
ains crossed, and rivers forded, and their windings, &c. A' spe-
cimen of their astonishing powers of recollecting and narrating,
is to be found in the life of Blackhawk, dictated by him to an
interpreter after his first visit t% this country, some of which
2
IS CULTIVATION OF MEMORY IN CHILDREN.
was extracted into the Journal, Vol. I, No. 2. That article the
writer prepared; and, in looking over the work for selections
to illustrate his developments, we were surprised at the perspi-
cuity and minuteness of details of his story. Beginning back
at the time when his tribe inhabited Montreal, he told those
prophetic revelations which preceded their removal, and all the
incidents of their successive journeys as the whites drove them
back, and still farther back : the particulars of his joining Te-
cumseh in fighting against Gen. Harrison : the details of the
war in which he was taken : the injustice of the whites : his
travels through the United States: whom he saw, and what
was. said on various occasions, &c, &c., with a detailed precis-
ion which is rarely if ever found in our own race, and that at
the age of 70. We hazard nothing in saying that the Indians
know more of their national history than the Anglo-Saxons do
of theirs ; because, the former tell it to their children in the form
of stories, while the latter put it in their libraries, and teach
their children to " set on a bench and say A." Let the two
but be united—the very course we propose to pursue—and the
attainments of our children would doubtless be incredible, far
exceeding any thing now known.
Let every reader ask himself whether he does not remember
the incidents and stories of childhood with a clearness ancl
minuteness with which his present memory bears no compari
son ? But why this weakening of this kind of memory ? Be-
cause you sat " on a bench and said A" ; that is, because your
early education repressed instead of exciting Eventuality ; so
that its inaction diminished it, and not because the constitution
of man requires it to become enfeebled by age. You had
nothing to remember, and therefore remembered nothing. And
if you wish to improve your memory, go to remembering; for,
the more you try to remember, the more you do remember
and the more you remember, the better you are able to remem-
ber. It is a mistaken notion that the more you charge your
memory with, the less you remember. The reverse is the
fact, unless other things confuse you, and wear out your brain.
Ask our post officefclerks if they do not find their memorie ••
of
names, faces, changes ordered, &c, to improve instead of be-
coming weaker. Many a lesson of this character have my
THE EXTENT OF HIS KNOWLEDGE. 23
on with the entire book ; thus constantly exercising his event-
uality. After a little, he could keep the history of two books,
and then of three, and four, each clearly before his mind at
once, and carry them along in his memory as he read them.
But he found he forgot names. He pursued the same course
in reference to this kind of memory, and thus improved it also.
But he found that he forgot where on the page he left off, and
was obliged to turn down a leaf. This would not do. He
each time impressed upon his locality where he left off, and that
in each book, and shortly found this kind of memory likewise
improved. He also exercised his Causality in philosophizing
upon what he read. Now, if Phrenology be true, his organs
of Eventuality, Locality, Language, &c, must have been
small, but they are now all remarkably large, showing their
increase by exercise, and he informed me that now, at sixty
years of age, his mind is more vigorous, and his memory
more retentive, than ever before—that it still goes on improv
ing, though at his age all kinds of memory, are usually feeble,
and declining.
Let it be observed, that he took the very method for the
increase of organs pointed out by Phrenology, namely, the
vigorous exercise of the very powers he wished to improve.
He is acknowledged to have the best memory, and to be the
best informed man in central Pennsylvania. Lawyers, doctors,
and the literati from all that section, go to him to obtain infor-
mation on doubtful points, and deem it a great privilege to hear
him talk, or gather that information which his extensive read-
ing and perfectly retentive memory enaoles him to impart. Let
those who have poor memories, go and do likewise; for, your
memory, equally with his, is susceptible of improvement, and
probably to as great a degree, provided your constitution is
unimpaired, health good, and regimen proper.
This case furnishes an additional fact to show the increase
of the organs ; for, if Phrenology be true, his Eventuality
must have been small at twenty-five ; but it has now become
large, from its exercise.
Ellihu Burritt, the learned blacksmith, is another sample of
what man's mind is capable of accomplishing. [See Journal,
Vol. Ill, p, 21.-]
24 IMPROVING THE MEMORY BY REVIEWING THE PAST.
Parentage unquestionably contributes Its c[uota to this re-
sult, but education must perfect it. All children have prodi-
gious Eventuality, and all adults might have it, if they would •
but tax their memories. If Mr. Burritt's case does not prove
that all can be Burritt's, Mr. McGrugan's goes far to favor
that all may be McGrugans. Reader, only try the experiment
as we direct, and I will stand sponsor for any failure except
your failure to persevere in trying it
—you* giving, credit in
case of a successful issue.
I might sustain the point I am now urging by almost any
number and variety of similar facts, and afford additional en-
couragement to those who are disposed to try it, but if what has
already been said is not abundantly sufficient, both to prove
our position, and to encourage, especially the young, to adopt
the simple and easy course pointed out, additional labor would
be in vain. Still, that he that runs may read, and that no stone
maybe left unturned in order to elevate the intellectual
character and standing of man, I will add a few directions, as
samples of what is to be done, and how to do it.
When you retire at night, devote fifteen minutes to a review
of the events, sayings, and transactions of each day. Thus : I
rose (Eventuality) this morning at six o'clock, (Time,) went
to such places, (Eventuality, Locality,) and did such and such
things (Eventuality) before breakfast, (Time,) which I ate at
seven o'clock, (Time,) said and heard such and such things at
breakfast, (here recall the subject-matter of conversation,) went
about such a business, (Eventuality,) saw Mr. —,
(Form,) who
said such and such things, (Eventuality.) This angered me,
and I said thus and so in reply, (but ought not to have lost my
temper, and will avoid it in future,) and sc* on to the end of the
day. Every Saturday evening, extend these reviews of the
past through the week, and then often recall the events of
childhood and youth. This course, besides disciplining your
memories, teaches you one of the very best lessons you can
possibly learn. It will enable you to see your past errors, and
to avoid them for the future—will give you a just estimate of
your doings, sayings, &c, and, though it may drop a tear of
penitence over the wrong in Reeling, conduct, expression, &c,
yet it will be the most effective instrument of reform and self-
IN THE HEAD, NOT IN THE POCKET. 21
the mind. Its study is, therefore, cordially recommended not
only on account of the glorious truths and rich mines of thought
it opens, but merely as a means of strengthening the memory,
and improving the mind. But more of this after I have
analyzed the other intellectual faculties.
Were other illustrations of the extent to which memory may
be carried by exercising it, necessary, I might state cases rela-
ted to me in my practice. Mr. White, dentist, Tenth street,
near George, Philadelphia, informs me that his wife's uncle,
who resides near Reading, Pa., was unable to read, or write, or
keep books, and yet, that he usually did business to the amount
of hundreds of thousands of dollars, annually, without ever
having been known to make a mistake as to the amount due
from him or to him, till after he became intemperate.
After giving this lecture in Clinton Hall, in February last,
a gentleman stated to me that he knew an extensive drover in
the New York market, who could not read, write, or keep
books ,;
yet, who would sell out a drove of hundreds of cattle,
one to one man, another to another, a half to a third, and a
quarter to another, and yet^ keep every one in his head, their
weight and price, and amount due from each ; and, said he "I
never knew a single mistake ; and, what is more, he will do
the same of droves sold years ago. He stated it as his full
conviction, that he never forgot a single hoof he ever sold, or
its weight, or price, or purchaser. If the reader thinks tnat
this draws too largely upon his marvellousness, I reply, wait a
little ; for, you may yet see collateral evidence of its truth. I
give it as my full and deliberate opinion, that the mind of man
is so constituted as to be able, if properly disciplined, and if the
body be kept in the right state, to retain every thing it ever
received. Unquestionably, our memories are originally consti-
tuted to be fact tight—to let no event of our lives, nothing
ever seen, heard, or read, escape us, but to recall every thing
committed to its trust. Look at the astonishingly retentive
memories of children. And yet their brains are still soft and
immature. What, then, might the memory of adults become ?
As much stronger, more minute, and tenacious, as their brains
are capable of becoming more solid and vigorous. But mod-
ern education weakens, instead of improving the memory ; first,
by relaxing, weakening, and almost destroying the tone and
22 EXPERIENCE OF M7
GRUGAJSF.
power of the body, and thereby the vigor of the organs in
the base of the brain, including the perceptive or knowing or-
gans,* and, secondly, by giving them, especially Eventuality
little stimulus, little food, so that it becomes enfeebled by sheer
starvation and inaction. It has little to do, and therefore does
not do that little ; carymg out the principle that " From him
that hath not, shall be taken away even that he hath."
A similar fact, but one still more in point, occurs in the case-
of Mr. McGrugdin, of Milton, Pa. In 1S36, we examined
his head, and foundall the intellectual organs-amply developed..
We well remember the bold prominences of Causality, as well
as the perpendicular ridge, somewhat resembling a part of a
pipe stem, which we observed in the centre of the forehead,
which indicates the recent enlargement of this organ. In our
visit to Chambersburg, Pa., in 1839, Mr. McGrugan, waited
on us to request an hour's interview. He then expressed him-
self in the strongest terms as to the extent to which memory
was capable of being improved, expressing the strongest desire
to be, what his age and circumstances prevented his becoming,
a public lecturer, simply that he might enforce upon young-
men the importance of memory, and the means of cultivating it.
He, said that at twenty-five, his memory was most miserable.
If rie went from his house to his shop for any thing, he usually
forgot what he went for. If he went to town, lie forgot most
of his errands. He could not recollect any thing he read or
heard, neither names, nor words, nor dates, nor facts. At
length he resolved no longer to submit to this forgetfulness,
but to discipline his. mind, in doing which he adopted the fol-
lowing method. When he wanted any thing from his house,,
he would think over and over in his mind what it was he
wanted, »thus exercising his Eventuality upon it, and thereby
remembered it. He would jead a passage and re-read it, and
then think it over and over, or- in phrenological language^
would exercise his Eventuality upon it, strongly impressing it
upon that faculty. He would then lay by his book, and still
revolve it in his mind, and then read another passage, and go
hrough the same process in reference to both together, and so
'
*The proof and explanation of the relative or reciprocal influences-
between the body*zn$ the base of the brain, will be given hereafter.
TEACHING THEM INDUCTIVE REASONING. 27
Then show them bow a sour stomach is produced. After
explaining the position, looks, and office of the stomach,* tell
them that eating too much, or more than the stomach can di-
gest, makes this food lie in it so long that it begins to ferment
or sour, like cider or beer, which disorders the blood, and
causes sickness unless removed ; that this souring creates a
gas, which may often be seen blubbering up and the bubbles
breaking ; that, in distilling grain into alcoholic drinks, the
grain is first fermented, and this gas converted into alcohol';
that it is this same gas which sometimes bursts a barrel of new
cider or bottle of beer that is working, and makes the cork fly-
out with a noise or explosion similar to the report of a gun, and
which causes the frothing of new beer, cider, champagne, &c.
Then take a bladder, partly filled with air; let your child
hold it near the fire and see it swell, and carry it back and see
it shrink, carry it up and see it swell, &c, a few times, and he
will be delighted to observe that heating it makes it swell up,
and that cold shrinks it. Then let him take a vial or bottle,
and fill it so that another drop will make it run over, and
set it down before the fire ; and, as it becomes hot, it runs over
;
as it becomes cool, it settles down. Then, that this expanding
of the water is what makes water boil over a hot fire ; the bot-
tom, which is hottest, expands, and this causes it to rise. A
few similar experiments will teach your child one great truth;
the law of nature, that heat expands, and cold contracts, all
bodies ; that, therefore, a clock or watch goes slower in warm
weather than in cold, because the pendulum is longer; that a
red-hot tire, put on to a wagon-wheel, may be comparatively
loose ; but as it cools, becomes very tight, so as to make the
wheel strong, &c. And remember, that when you have taught
them this law of nature, you have taught them a lesson they
will never forget; a lesson they will have occasion almost daily
to use, a principle with which they will instinctively associate
I f Few children, even of twelve years old, know that th'ey have a
stomach. They know that fowls have gizzards, and cattle, hogs, &c,
paunches, (which some people relish,) because they have seen them
butchered; yet, do not know that they also have a digesting apparatus for
disposing of the food daily consumed.
28 ANALYSIS OF COMPARISON.
every like fact they ever learn, which, without this association
would soon be forgotten ; a lesson in reasoning or the first,
complete, and the most important intellectual process, namely,
that of inductive reasoning, or reasoning from factsJo the
laws that govern them.
But, before completing the remarks on this head, I must
analyze other organs in order to show how to train them all to
combined action, and proceed with
COMPARISON :
Or, discovering the unknown from its resemblance to the
known; reasoning from parallel cases, or from a collec-
tion of similar facts up to the laws or first principles that
govern them : detecting error from its opposition to facts,
or from its incongruity with truth : ability and disposi-
tion to classify phenomena and things : perceiving and
applying the principles of Analogy, or the resemblance
of things : ability to generalize, compare, discriminate,
fyc. : critical acumen : inductive reasoning : 'power of ex-
plaining and illustrating : disposition to use comparisons,
suppose similar cases, employ similes, metaphors,
figures of speech, 8?c.
Adaptation. The principles of analogy and resemblance,
run throughout the whole range of creation. All human be-
ings closely resemble each other. All have a nose, mouth,
brain, heart, eyes, bones, muscles, hands, feet, &c, and in
much the same relative position. The resemblance of every
animal to every other animal of its own species, and indeed to
all other animals, man included, is very striking : and so of
the balance of creation. This resemblance of things teaches
us a vast proportion of. all we know. Thus, seated around a
winter's fire, eating an apple, we feel as sure that it grew on
an apple-tree instead of in the ground, or in an animal, like an
egg, as that we are eating jt, and yet we did not see it growing
there.. If fire be brought in contact with flesh; we know be-
forehand that it will burn, and cause pain instead of pleasure,
and pain of a certain kind. But how do we know this ? Be-
cause this fire and flesh are similar to all other fire and flesh,
and Comparison tells Eventuality that the effect of bringing
the two in contact will be like the effect experienced a thou-
sand times before by applying fire to the flesh. On seeing a
stranger, of whose habits we know nothing, we infer from his
RENDERING REMEMBRANCE PLEASURABLE. 25
control you can employ; because, the pain felt in contemplating
the wrong, a,nd the pleasure connected wkh a review of the
good and the virtuous, will instinctively lead you to avoid the
former and practice the latter; and for precisely the same
reason that a burnt child keeps out of the fire, namely, because
it pained him, or that a happy man seeks again and again the
tauseof that happiness. Does not this course commend itself to
the good sense of the reader, at least enough to secure a trial?
This same course should be pursued by parents and teachers
in regard to children. Ask them what they have seen to-day,
and when they tell you one or more things, ask thenv what
else, and then what else, and get them to tell over all the par-
ticulars of the doings of the day, which will cultivate their
Language as well as Eventuality. Then induce them to tell
over what they saw at such and such times that you may name;
to tell you the story you told them about Franklin, or Wash-
ington, or tjhe Revolution, &c, which may have before been
told them. Let the elder children tell stories to the younger,
and let the aged and doting grand-father tell them the habits
of men when he was a boy, and recount to them the scenes of
his youth, &c.
Closely connected with this subject, is one of great import-
ance, namely, having the recollections of childhood and youth
all pleasurable. Man not only recalls the past, but he enjoys
or suffers from those recollections. A single dark spot, a single
act of our lives that leaves a moral stain upon its recollection,
is ever afterwards capable of piercing us with the keenest of
pangs, while the recollection of what is pleasurable, throws a
bright beam of pleasure upon us every time it is recalled, equal
to that experienced in the event itself, which thus doubles the
pleasure connected with the event a thousand times. Hence,
it is immensely important that all our recollections should be
pleasurable—that childhood and youth should be made, and
should render themselves as happy as possible ; which will
greatly facilitate and induce that exercise, and consequent im-
provement, in the memory we are urging.
I now put it to the common sense of every reflecting mind
whether the course thus far pointed out, does not commend*
itself to every reflecting mind as infinitely superior to the pres-
ent method of educating children ? whether it does not account
26 SHOWING CHILDREN EXEPRIMENTS.
for the miserably poor memories of most adults by ascribing
it to their not being exercised? whether this not exercising
the memory is not caused by children's want of interest in
the common studies of the schools ? and whether this course
is not in perfect harmony with the nature, laws, and action of
mind, particularly in children ? If so, let it be adopted.
Another important suggestion, growing out of this analysis
of Eventuality is, showing them experiments, chemical, phil-
osophical, &c, &c. " What /" exclaims an astounded reader,
" teach children chemistry, natural philosophy, natural history
&c., and that before they are taught to read? I thought
you were a crazy simpleton before, but now I know you are."
Wait, reader, till we see whether'this craziness and utter folly
do not appertain to the present course of early education, in-
stead of to this phrenological course. After showing the child
things, flowers, animals, the contents of museums, &c., as point-
ed out under the head of Individuality, and telling them sto-
ries, and exciting their Eventuality, as just described, show
them the changes and phenomena of matter. Show them the
whole process of vegetation, from planting the seed in the
ground, up through all. of its changes of swelling, sprouting,
taking root, shooting forth out of the ground, becoming a thri \
ving plant or vegetable, budding, blossoming, shedding its
blossoms, and producing seed like that from which it sprung.
And what if, in thus examining these most interesting changes,
they do pull up now and then a blade of corn, or kernel of
wheat, or a valuable plants will not the pleasure and instruc-
tion thereby afforded them, repay the loss a thousand folcj ?
Show them how acorns produce oaks; peach or cherry stones^
peach or cherry trees, which again produce peaches or cherg
ries, and so of other trees and things. Then put a spoonful of
vinegar into a glass of water, and stir in ashes or pearlash, or
any other alkali, and watch their surprise and delight at seeing
it foam and froth, perhaps rUn over. Then explain to them
how pearlash is made by draining water through lye, boiling
down the lye till it becomes thick and hard, then melting it, and
at last refining it; and, then show them how taking this alkali
»in the form of pearlash, or even by drinking water into which
ashes have been put, is calculated to cleanse a sour stomach by
the two combining, and neutralizing each other.
ANSWERING THE QUESTIONS OF CHILDREN. 31
remember it ; and, when they wish to attain a certain end, they
will operate by means of them.
This is the organ through which explanations mainly enter
the mind •
and hence, great pains should be taken to explain
every thing, not to get rid of your children, but to instruct them.
They ask a great many questions, which are either ivhat what
questions, or why why questions, and every opportunity of
conveying instruction thereby afforded, should be embraced.
I well remember once asking my father, who was husking
corn, why a certain ear, the rows on which were irregular,
looked so. different from all the rest ?
u Because it is not rowed,'"
was his answer. Over this answer I thought, and thought, and
thought what he could mean, and finalfy concluded that, as he
went through the cornfields to hoe the corn, so he probably
went through to row it, but skipped this ear. Now see how
excellent an opportunity this question afforded for teaching me
the important lesson that nature showed economy in every
thing—that by the cobs being round, more corn could grow in
a given space than in any other shape; that the kernels were
all placed In rows so that all might be filled up ; for, if they
were not in rows, some kernels would be too much crowded,
and in other places there would be nothing; and, that the hu-
man body was contrived so as to bring the greatest possible
number and amount of functions into the smallest possible
space ; and so of all the other operations of nature. Every
day and hour the continual string of questions asked by chil-
dren, affords opportunities to explain some important truth, or
teach some valuable lesson ; and yet, strange inconsistency
!
many parents become angry at their children for asking so
many questions, or else turn them off with those answers that
are not satisfactory.* This questioning is as important to the
intellectual growth of children, as the root is to a tree or plant
;
and yet, wonderful to tell, in our present system of education,
*An unusually inquisitive, that is, uncommonly smart child, once
asked her grandmother " what bricks were made out of;" and was told
" of sand and clay." " Then what makes them red ?" asked the child ;
" O do hold your tongue. Don't ask so many questions and no one will
know you are a fool. Little girls should be seen not heard," was the
repfy. The grandmother could not tell why, and, therefore, became angry
at the child for asking. J
32 ANALYSIS OF CAUSALITY.
no provision is made for answering these questions. What
questions can or do children ask at school ? Almost none.
Now we appeal whether answering these questions does not do
them far more good than learning to read? Does it not exercise,
and thereby improve, their intellects far more ? for, let it never
be forgotten that in order to enlargethe intellectual organs, they
must be exercised, and what interests, excites, and thereby
enlarges them ; but what does not interest, does not excite, or
enlarge, or benefit them. Looking at the present method of
education through the optics of Phrenology, or through the
principles already pointed out, which is the only correct light
in which it can be viewed, I really do not see how it is possi-
ble to devise a more effectual method of deadening the action
of the brain, or weakening, instead of strengthening, the facul-
ties of the mind; for, surely, no course would be less interesting,
aye, more, none could scarcely be more disagreeable to
them, and therefore, (not less beneficial, which would imply
some good, but) more injurious; for, the present course is be-
yond all question decidedly detrimental. With my present
knowledge of the subject, I boldly avow my preference to re-
main untaught, than to be sent to our present common schools.
They are injuries instead of blessings, and Phrenology will
soon sweep them into oblivion, or else effectually remodel them.
See if it does not, and that speedily.
We have other remarks belonging more appropriately to
Comparison than to any other faculty ;
yet, as education, to be
successful, must combine th.e exercise of all the intellectual fac-
ulties, we can present them much better after we have analyzed.
CAUSALITY:
Or power of perceiving and employing the principles of cau-
sation : ability to discover and apply first principles, and
trace out the relations existing between causes and effects
:
desire to know the why and wherefore of things : abili-
ty to reason, or draw conclusions from given premises*:
to plan, invent, contrive, adapt means to ends, take the
advantage of circumstances, create resources, applypower
most advantageously, and make the head save the hands
:
to predict the results of given measures, and tell what
will be from what has been : sagacity : the leading ele-
ment of common sense : the therefore and wherefore
faculty.
ANALYSIS OP COMPARISON. 29
similarity to other human beings, that he requires food, sleep,
and breath, and that he cannot eat iron or arsenic, that he has
lungs, a heart, stomach} &c, and that they are in a certain
part of his body, &c. How do we know without trying it,
that a certain tree, cut up and put on a fire, will burn, throw
out heat, and produce ashes and smoke ; that a given stone
thrown into the air, will fall to the earth ; that water will run
down an inclined plane ; that cutting off a sheep's head will
kill it; that ice is cold and fire hot ; that animals will bring
forth, each after its kind ; that food will nourish, earthen-
ware break, and a sharp edge cut ; that a fish grew in the wa-
ter, and that a bird cannot live long immersed in that element ?
The faculty of Comparison teaches us, not only these, but
thousands of other things of every day occurrence, about
which we know nothing except from their resemblance to
other things which we have known to be what we infer of
these. This is doubtless one of the most valuable, if not de-
cidedly the most valuable, of the Intellectual Faculties. These
illustrations show how vast the amount of knowledge com-
municated by it ; and, consequently, how important its proper
cultivation.
It should be added, that, there are doubtless two faculties of
Comparison : that the lower acts with the perceptive faculties,
comparing physical things, and thereby teaches us physical les
sons ; and that the upper acts with the moral faculties, com-
paring ideas, analyzing, discriminating, criticising, and giving
logical acumen. There are, also, in all probability, two or-
gans of Eventuality ; the inside one for remembering the
scenes and associations of childhood and youth ; the outside
organ for recollecting business transactions, and the occur-
rences of the day, week, year, and latter part of life ; and, two
of Individuality \ the inner for recollecting things lately seen \
the outer, for noticing and remembering things seen in child-
hood.
Having shown that this faculty lies at the very basis of
much of our knowledge, it should be added, that it is one of
the first intellectual organs developed in children, following
closely after that of Individuality and Eventuality, and is in-
dispensable in order to complete almost every mental operation.
To children it is still more important. Without it, they would
34 TEACHING CHILDREN TO THINK FOR THEMSELVES.
rents, and be allowed and encouraged freely to ask all the
questions that occur to them ; and let parents in giving these
answers, give the true cause or none. Many parents—some-
times because they do not know how to answer their questions-
and sometimes to quiz them, but more often because the minds
of the parents themselves are biased by wrong principles
—
teach their children to believe instead of think : or to think
erroneously by teaching them to think from incorrect data,
which warps their Causality from the very first. Children
should be taught to do their own thinkings and to answer their
own questions. They asked a question yesterday, to which a
correct answer was given ; to-day they ask another, and re-
ceive a correct answer, and to-morrow, ask a third, the answer
to which, or the principle involved, was explained yesterday.
Recall these answers, and tell them to put that and that to-
gether, and judge for themselves as to the results about which
they inquire. In other words, give them the data, and then let
themihiniv, judge, and act for themselves.
Little fear need be entertained about their coming to incor-
rect conclusions ; for, Causality, and all the other intellectual
faculties, act by intuition, and, unbiased, will always come to
correct conclusions. That same intuition, or instinct, or what
you please, which makes the child breathe, and nurse, and
sleep, also governs the actions of all its faculties, the intellectual
ncluded. It teaches Individuality to observe, and observe
correctly; Eventuality, to remember action ; Form/to know
whether a thing is round, square, conical, &c, and to recollect
the shape of things ; Size, to tell them correctly the bulk of
things, their distance, &c. ; Weight, to resist and counteract the
laws of gravity: Comparison, to generalize; and Causality
to reason and adapt means to ends. All that Causality re-
quires in order to come to correct conclusions, is to have the
right data placed before it. Far too many parents do the
thinking for their chilren when they are young, and this makes
them get it done out, when they are older. This explains the
decrease of Causality in children. Has the reader never ob-
served the fine, noble foreheads of children, their height,
their expanse, and those marked protuberances at the sides of
INTELLECTUAL SUPERIORITY OF CHILDREN. 35
the upper parts of their foreheads which characterize their in-
tellectual developments ? Cast your eye over the foreheads
of a hundred children, and then of a hundred adults, and if
you do not see a marked superiority of the former over the
latter in proportion, then you do not see what I am daily pain-
ed to observe—pained, not because children have such fine
heads, but, because adults have so poor ones. I do not hesi-
tate to stake my reputation on the opinion that the difference
is from one^fourth to one-half in favor of children, and against
adults; whereas, the difference should be in favor of adults;
because the law of our nature, as explained on pp. 31-33,
shows that the mental temperament and faculties are destined
to increase in a far greater ratio than the physical powers, or
organs of the feelings.
The intellectual capacities of children are also far superior
in proportion, to those of adults. Observe their remarks. Are
they not often full of pith, and meaning, and idea ? Do they
not often expose the absurdity of the dogmas that are taught
them ? Do' they not discover a sagacity, a penetration, a
quickness, an intuitive comprehension of things, not found in
them whengrown up ? And do they not discover a power of
contrivance altogether astonishing ? I was never more sur-
prised than on seeing a little girl, not yet eighteen months old,
praise her aunt in order to obtain from her, sugar and other
favors. When she said "pretty aunt Charlotte," or "aunt
Charlotte your dress is pretty," aunt Charlotte knew that she
was coaxing her, and working around upon her blind side in
order to get a favor. Wherua little over two years old, as the
family, in connexion with her uncle, were eating almonds and
raisins in the evening, she awoke, and knowing that it was
useless to ask father, or mother, or aunt for them, went to her
uncle, whom she did not like any too well, and laying her
head back affectionately upon his lap, said, in a very coaxing
t one and manner, "pretty uncle Lorenzo. Uncle Lorenzo is
good." The next morning her mother asked her "what made
uncle L. pretty ?" "Because almonds and raisins is pretty/
was her artless reply. To administer praise as a means o
obtaining favors, without ever having been taught to do so,
and that at eighteen months old, certainly required an exer
38
over mankind, converting them into mere tools and dupes to
carry forward their selfish foolish or villainous objects—that
riches are more highly esteemed than talents—that men who
live on the Approbativeness, or Combativeness. or Alimentive
ness, or curiosity, or almost any other feeling of mankind, suc-
ceed to a charm, while those who live by their intellects, usually
starve—why reforms make so slow progress, and effect so little
—why the conversation of young people, especially of fash-
ionable ladies, is soft and nonsensical—why the few are ena-
bled to control the many—why so little time is devoted to intelj
lectual culture, and so much to the gratification of the passions;
why so little is yet known of nature, her laws and doings; why,
in short, the intellectual lobe of men is so small, and the pro-
pensities so large.
But how can this organ be cultivated by adults, especially
by young people ? Simply by thinking, musing, meditating,
contemplating, and inquiring at the shrine of nature into the
laws and principles that govern things.
"But I've nothing to think about," says one. Poor soul,
you are to be pitied. A world of wonders even within youi
self, and yet, barren heath,*you've nothing to think about J
A
world of wonders above your head and beneath your feet, and
yet, poor thought-ridden mortal, yov've nothing to think about.
All nature around you teeming with events, every one of
which has its cause, and most of them a cause within your
reach, and yet, thought-starved mortal, you've nothing to
"think about ! Poor thing, you shall have a name and a place
among other idiots.
To any young person, then, I say, think. Wherever you
are, whatever you are doing, if you see anything you do not
comprehend, whether in nature or art, ferret out its cause, and
then think about it : do not be ashamed to expose your ignor-
ance in order to gain knowledge. Take a* walk every day,
two or three times a day to think, muse, meditate, contem-
plate.
" Oh, but I'm too t>usy for that," says one. Then you ought
to be too busy to eat and sleep ; for the mind requires food
and exercise as much as the body. " But I havr
e not sufficient
time even to eat and sleep," is the reply. No matter, then,
for you must find time to die the sooner for not thinking. In-
NTGHT THINKING AND STUDY HIGHLY INJURIOUS. 39
tellectual culture is directly calculated to prolong life, as well
as a means of rendering it much more happy, and of effecting
much more. Even as a means of accomplishing mere ivorldly
ends, you will be a gainer by cultivating your intellects ; for,
its increased power will enable you to save more time by
taking a shorter and surer road to ^our ends, than you lose in
its culture. Besides : there is hardly an occupation in life,
which does not allow of more or less opportunities for thought
;
for, whilst the hands are employed in labor, the mind can also
be employed in meditation. Of all occupations suitable for
intellectual culture, farming is the most favorable. Labor is
promotive of mental action, whilst mornings, evenings,* rainy
days, &c., increase these facilities.
The study of Phrenology is also highly promotive of intel-
lectual eulture ; because, first, it deeply interests, and thereby
excites the mind to new and vigorous action ; and, secondly,
it opens a far richer mine of thought, and field of intellectual
research, than all other studies united, for it unfolds man.
I will just add that night thinking is highly injurious. While
the natural sun pours its benign rays upon the delighted world,
let your thoughts be also poured out upon the fields of nature,
to be gathered in, expanded and instructed, as he descends be-
neath the western sky. Rise with the sun, or rather, with the
break of day, nerve your mind gradually to action, as the skilful
hunter gradually strains his unstrung bow, and be ready to
CGjnimence your day of intellectual vigor with the rising of the
sun, and, by the time he disappears in the west, you should
have exhausted your cerebral energy for the day, and be sink-
ing with him into the refreshing slumbers of night, to re-
awaken and rise again with him the next day.
I will just observe in passing, that if you have anything to
do more important than cultivating your intellects, do, in all
* The allusion here made to farmer's studying evenings, ie adapt-
ed, not to the nature of man, but to that false custom of setting up late
at night, a practice as reprehensible and injurious as it is universal.
The good old Yankee custom of retiring at least by nine o'clock, is
well worthy its high origin. All children should be taught to retire with
the setting of the sun, and all adults should practice it, and lectures,
meetings, &c, should be held in the day time. But -more of this in
another place.
40 ANALYSIS AND ADAPTATION OF LANGUAGE.
conscience do it. If you cannot spare time from the fashiona-
ble world, or the working world, or the political world, or the
religious world, or the trading world, or the money-making
world, or the ambitious world, then do go on ; for, your busi-
ness is indeed of the utmost importance. All these things
must of course be done up* first, and intellect be thurst away
back behind them all; because, if a man be rich, he gets
along: well enough without intellect ; if poor, he has no time
or means to use it; if he has on a fashionable coat, or can
make a dandified bow, intellect would spoil both ; if she be a
young woman, she must first get married, and study how to
attract the admiration of gentlemen instead of thinking; but
if married, must take care of her family and children ; and so
it goes the world over. Hence, intellect is considered of very
little account any how, and not worth the time or pains of
raising, except to a few in an age.
LANGUAGE.
The communicating faculty : power of expressing one's
ideas by words, both spoken and written : ability to learn
spoken languages, and to use such words as will exactly
express one's ideas : memory of words : versatility of
expression : talkativeness, volubility, garrulity.
Adaptation. Man is a communicative being. He has
thoughts and feelings wr*jch he wishes to express, and which
his fellow men may be profited by hearing. This faculty is
adapted to the exchange and inter-communication of ideas be-
tween man and man, and is highly promotive of human hap-
piness and improvement. Besides being one of the most pow-
erful stimulators imaginable of nearly every one of the other
faculties, it is certainly' an instrument of intellectual improve-
ment, and moral and social enjoyment unsurpassed by any
other faculty.
Let every human being be tongue-tied, let every word ever
used be blotted from existance, and writing, printing and read-
ing totally abolished, and what an intellectual, moral, social
and business stagnation would follow ! Nothing could be sent
for; the American Phrenological Journal must stop; scarcely
a want expressed or supplied, and man's condition in every
way most wretched. Bat, thanks to the great and good Au-
thor of our being, man can talk, write, speak, chain and be
STUDYING THE DEAD LANGUAGES. 41
chained to the mighty car of eloquence, and drink in the
thoughts and feelings of others, in all their endless number and
variety.
The value and uses of this faculty being great, its proper
cultivation is equally important. How then, can it be cultiva
ted? Do I not hear a word-bereft stammerer say, "Oh, I
would give air I have to be able to express what I think and
feel ! to have the power of transplanting my ideas, and infu-
sing my thoughts into the minds of my fellow-men? to be elo-
quent, to be fascinating in conversrtion, in short to have large
language ? I have tried my best, I have studied Greek and
Latin—have translated Homer, Virgil, Demosthenes, Cicero,
and Horace ; have learned Hebrew and Arabic, French and
Spanish, and yet, I cannot speak in public, or even express my
ideas freely in conversation," Then I pity you ; for, you have
been walking a' treadmill all your life to get forward, but have
gone backward faster than forward. I can put you upon the
track of cultivating your Language in short order. Go to talk-
ing. That is what you have to do. Just talk, talk, talk.
This will exercise the organ of language, and increase your
power of expression, whereas, studying the dead languages
from books, will do you more harm than good. "It will?
Why you astonish me ; I thought this was the way to cultivate
it!" and that is just where the learned have always erred.
The one, distinctive office of Language is Jo employ words to
communicate ideas, especially orally ; and the one and only
method of materially improving it is to communicate, especi-
ally to talk. This point is clear and certain, and though at war
with the whole learned world, it is right. To set a child "on
a bench to say A," and to send a youth to the academy and
college to learn languages, in order to make him a fluent speak-
er, is sending him to the equator for ice, or to the poles for flow-
ers. By preventing his talking, it rusts his organ of language,
making him worse instead of better. But the most serious
point of this serious evil is, the injury it does to his health,
which directly impairs the tone and power of the organ, and
thereby weakens the faculty. The law that produces this re-
sult, will be explained elsewhere. Sufficient for the present to
say, that this organ, being close to the body, partakes intimate-
42 PREVENTING CHILDRENS' TALKING INJURIOUS.
ly of the state of the body, being weakened or strengthened as
the physical powers are increased or impaired. Most college
graduates break down their health, and weaken instead of in-
creasing, their speaking and talking talents. Has the reader
never observed that he could converse, write, and speak with
infinitely greater ease when well, than when unwell? This
principle explains the cause, and teaches you this valuable les-
son, that, in cultivating both your own and your child's lang-
uage, health should be preserved first of all. Confining chil-
dren in school, prevents exercise and physical development,
and this reduces thepow^r and versatility of Language.
All children are insessant talkers. Whether or not they
have ideas to communicate, is quite immaterial. Their tongues
are always running. Their prattle is incessant. Not so with
adults, especially with Yankees. Now why this falling off of
Language ? Attend to my reply. " Hark ! Who is that whis-
pering there ? Stop that whispering yonder, or I'll box your
ears for you," says a school master to a child with large Lan-
guage. And if, prompted by the instinctive workings of this
faculty, another is caught whispering, he is surely punished.
Better punish him for breathing or getting hungry; for, each of
the three is equally natural and useful; and to punish for
either, is cruel and unjust. In giving them Language and a
tongue, the Author of their being gave them the desire and.
the right to use them in talking: nay, he even*made talking
their duty as well as privilege. Who, then, art thou, teacher
or parent, that dare suppress this right derived from heaven,
or punish its exercise ? God and the child will hold you guilty
for doing it ; the former, for nullifying his works, and the latter,
for weakening so pleasurable and useful a faculty.
Then what shall we do? for we cannot have the whole
school jabbering away so that we can't hear ourselves think,"
say the teachers. Then send your children home. " But,''
says a parent, "how in the world can I get along with all my
children pothering me, and deafening me with their eternal
clatter ? I must send them to school in order to get rid of
them, and when there, they must keep still, or I'll whip them."
Good lady, if your children are so very much in your way,
you had better not have any. But since you have them, con-
sult their good, and especially intellectual advancement, not
PREVENTING CHILDREN'S TALKING INJURIOUS. 43
your own comfort. Phrenology says, let children talk all they
please, and who art thou to "muzzle the mouth of the ox that
treadeth out the corn ?"
Besides, all will concede that expressing the ideas, increases
their flow, and quickens the action of the mind. This truth
is too self-evident to require either proof or illustration. Pre-
venting your children from talking or whispering, is prevent-
ing them from exercising, and thereby enlarging, their intel-
lects. " But must I be forever harrassed by their incessant
chamoring and hallooing ? Have I not a perfect right to keep
them still?" Just such a right as you have to stop their breath-
ing or eating, or to cut off their heads, or as the Hindoo mother
has to drown them. You certainly have no right to cramp,
or in any way embarrass the development of their intellects.
The best possible method of making a child an eloquent
speaker, is to allow him the full, unrestrained use of his tongue
during childhood and youth ; but, send him to school, and let
him be kept from saying a word there for the seven hours of
the fourteen he is awake, and kept very still at home the rest
of it, and then send him to college to break his constitution in
thumbing lexicons, allowing him little chance to speak except
passages committed to memory from some bombastic speaker,
and, when he graduates, have him always speak from notes,
(excuse the self-contradiction of speaking a written discourse,)
-and if he does not make as dull and prosy a speaker (?) as the
generality of our college graduates are, and as formal and ar-
tificial in tone and gesture as though mind and body were lash-
ed in a staight jacket, then water will not run down hill. Com-
pare our Methodist clergymen with our Presbyterian, and tell
me which class is the most eloquent ? Those who mount the
pulpit, and go to speaking from the first. Scarcely a spark
of true eloquence escapes college-learned clergymen, except
what congeals on the pen. Seldom do written discourses come
from the heart or reach the heart. Eloquence can never be
written—can never be dug up among Latin rubbish or Gre-
cian mythology. No ! it must be felt and spoken. Nor does
it coi'sist in words merely, nor in the ideas, but mainly in the
thrilling, melting tones of the voice.
How glorious a gift is that of eloquence ! See it in Demos-
thenes, when he made his listeners sieze their arms, and cry
44 MEANS OE PROMOTING ELOQUENCE.
out, " Let us march against Philip. Let us conquer or die"
—in Patrick Henry, when he roused and electrified Congress,
and prepared the way for drafting the Declaration of Inde-
pendence ; and in a few others who, by this power, exerted
an almost unlimited influence over the minds of their fellow
men. To say that there is a thousand times more natural
eloquence in man than is brought out by culture, or by the
modern method of education, or rather, to say that most of our
natural eloquence is buried in our school-houses, academies,
and seats of learning, is to utter a palpable but lamentable
truth. You who hesitate for words, who have ideas but do
not know ho.w to let others have them, who lose much of the
force and beauty of your ideas, or the power of your feelings,
in vain attempts to communicate them, who hesitate for
words, and want to say something but can not, may thank
your "setting on a bench and saying A"—your being boxed,
or ferruled, or disgraced for whispering in school, and kept
still at home for it. In other words, thank those who sup-
pressed, when they should have encouraged your talking dis-
position. From such thankless thanks, "good Lord deliver us."
If you wish to regain this lost sheep, go to talking. Drive
out your ideas somehow, anyhow ; but, at all events give them
wind. Join debating societies, and speaking clubs, and make
talk with every one you meet. Commit to memory, and re-
peat; in short, communicate and use words as much and as
well as possible. This will call this faculty into action, and
improve it, as well as enlarge the organ. It is worth your
trial. Especially if you wish to become a public speaker,
speak in public, and take down your notes in your brain,
employing the principle already presented.
* Much pains are taken to teach children good grammar.
This may be obviated. Your rules of parsing, &c, are of little
service. I will point out a far more excellent way. Let pa-
rents only speak properly, and always use good language, and
their children will do the same. To speak and write properly,
is as natural as to speak at all, and this is as natural as seeing
or breathing, because each is the intutive exercise of its appro-
priate faculty. The error commences in the cradle. Parents,
especially mothers, usually talk baby talk to their children,
TALKING TO CHILDREN GRAMMATICALLY. 45
which consists in saying silly things ungrammatically. If in-
fants do need milk to nourish their bodies, they certainly do
not need silliness to feed their minds. Talk ideas to them
or say nothing, and speak grammatically, and also use good
language, and your children will do the same.
A word more as to this baby nonsense. Like excites like.
This is as true of infants, comparatively, as of adults. Chil-
dren over two years old, understand, or are capable, of under-
standing most that is said to them. If ideas are spoken, their
ideas' are excited, and intellect, developed; and, if good language
be used, they will not only imitate the same, but even feel
their sentiment of the beautiful excited, and good taste there-
by cultivated, besides having matter for reflection. "A word
to the wise." The conversation of parents to their children, and
of adults before children, might and should furnish an intel-
lectual feast to their opening minds —should be grammatical-
ly expressed, and clothed in goodimguage. Then will chil-
dren, too, speak correctly, and charm you with the beauty and
power of their words, as well as grow up with superior and
fascinating conversational powers, if not become natural ora-
tors, and man's enjoyment derived from talking and listening
be augmented twenty-fold.
Parents, will you not be persuaded to banish your baby
balderdash, and your grovelling associations, and elevate and
instruct your children by conversation, as well as by example ?
In what has been said relative to learning the dead lan-
guages, the reader is not to infer that I consider a knowledge
of them useless or valueless, or am hostile to their being,
taught, and learned. I approve of them highly, but I repudi-
ate the modern nuthod of teaching them j for, it is tinphreno
logical The method of teaching and learning them pointed
out by Phrenology is, talking them. Books may be used as
an auxiliary, merely, but not as the main method, Besides*
their spending several-years of the best portion of their lives
in acquiring Greek, Latin, and Hebrew, they usually forget, ail
they ever knew about them, soon after leaving college, ff
they would have a school for teaching Greek, or Latin, or
% *See the article on a kindred subject in the Journal department,
signed Cormac, It is worthy of high commendation, though not re*
ceived till the text was prepared,
46 TEACHING CHILDREN GRAMMAR.
Hebrew, in which all the conversation was in the language
they were learning, besides acquiring a thorough knowledge in
one-tenth the usual time, they would then retain this knowl-
edge, and be able to turn it to some practical account. The
modern method of teaching French, by taking the pupil into
a school and family where no other language is spoken, ex-
cept in explanation of what they are learning is the only true
one. But the best time to learn the languages, is in childhood,
the nurse, or parent, or teacher, talking these languages to them.
Committing to memory comes under this organ, and is a
valuable quality. The extent to which this power can be car-
ried, is astonishing. A clergyman in England, delivered a
lengthy address from manuscript, which he refused to let be
published. One of his listeners, however, wrote it out from
memory, and on comparing- the two, there were only four-
teen words that were not the same in both, and these were
analogous.
Every body knows Attree of the Herald. As a reporter,
he has few equals, and yet does not write short hand. Still,
he gives his reports almost verbatim. His organ of Language
is large, and he commits wr writes a speech from memory,
with astonishing facility. In a recent conversation with him,
he remarked that, unless he kept it in habitual exercise, this
faculty became rusty. This power of committing to memory,
is extraordinary in most children, and should always be kept
vigorous by exercise. They love to learn by rote, and they
should be indulged in it. This exercise can and should be
commenced long before they are old enough to learn to read,
and continued through life. Printers in particular require it.
FORM.
Cognizance and recollection of the shape of objects, and of
the faces or countenances of persons, of the form and
looks of things, offamily resemblances, fyc: good eye-
sight.
A-daptation. Every physical thing, all the pieces or items
of matter which constitute our world, have some form, or
shape. No physical thing can exist, without having some shape
or«configuration. By means of it, we are able to designate
and remember one person or thing from another. Infinite wis-
dom has wisely given the quality of shape to all bodies, and, at
the same time imparted to man the faculty of Form, to enable
him to perceive and make a useful application of this elementa-
yfy
property of matter. Without this element in nature, man
could not recognize his fellow man, or any thing in nature ; but,
with it fully developed, he recollects persons and things seen
years ago, and distinguishes the animal, vegetable, or miner-
al kingdom by their shape.
47 WHEN AND HOW TO TEACH READING.
This is one of the principle faculties employed in reading
and spelling, though Language renders important assistance ;
Form by recollecting the shape 6f letters and words, and
Language, by committing to memory. This leads me to speak
of two important errors in the present method of teaching
reading and spelling : first, of teaching children the shape of
letters instead of words, the other, of teaching them to spell by
rote—E
by the way it sounds, instead of by the looks of the
word.
From what has before been said against teaching young chil-
dren to read, let it not be supposed that I am opposed to their
being taught these branches at all. Though I believe learning
to read so as to understand the sense, requires much maturity
and strength of mind, and though teaching children to read me-
chanically by rote merely, just as a par-rot says "pretty polly,"
is a positive injury by compelling them to call the words but
skipping the sense, and fall into that monotonous sameness of
tone which characterizes most readers, adults as well as chil-
dren, and is easily detected iti most speakers, especially clergy-
men ; still, after the way has been prepared by reading inter-
esting stories to them, and kindling in them a desire to read, so
as to read these stories themselves, and after they are capable
of comprehending the sense, they should by all means be
taught to read. Few, if any children, are capable of this be-
fore they are six or eight years old, and when they begin to
tease you to teach them how to read, because they wish to
enjoy reading, almost any child could be taught to read in one
month and to read better than he would havre read if he had
begun at three years old. The reason is obvious. By begin-
ning to read before they are capable of understanding the
sense, they not only take no interest in the matter, and there-
fore learn slowly, but often conceive a dislike to reading, and
hence read only when compelled to. But, wait till they are
eager to learn, and they will take the deepest interest in the
matter, and form a teste for it, which is of immense advant-
age. Scarcely one child in fifty but hates study, and the reason
is here disclosed—they learn to read before they are able to
understand what they read, and therefore conceive a dislike to
books, which lasts through life. The mother of Wesley would
not let her son learn a letter till the day he was five years old,
and that day she taught him every letter of the alphabet; and,
the next day, she taught him to read the first verse in the Bible.*
I have always brought out this point at my lecture on the
intellectual organs, and have afterward been waited upon by
hundreds who have stated facts showing that children from
six to eight years old, could be taught to read well in one
month. In 1337, I gave this lecture in New Haven, and in
going to New York the next day, a gentleman, one of the
48 TEACHING CHILDREN TO READ IN A MONTH.
theological students, stated as an illustration of this point, that
a friend of his forbid his boy learning a letter or opening a
book till he was six years old; that, by that time, the boy's
desire to read had kindled almost to a passion ; and that, in
one month, he learned to read fluently in the Bible, and had
ever since been devoted to books. Hundreds of similar facts
have been told me, and if any parent will pursue a similar
course, I stand sponsor for the result.
But I will point out a method of teaching childron to read,
shorter and better than the present, and one that will obviate
two-thirds of the difficulty connected with reading. It is this.
Teach your child words instead of letters. Thus: it is just
as easy for your child to learn has, as to learn h, or a, or s; and
this method saves him that immense difficulty of compounding
the elementary sounds. And it must come to this after all. I
appeal to every good proof-reader in Christendom, whether he
does not detect typographical errors by the looks of the word,
not by spelling it over, or by remembering its gingle. The
word looks wrong. It strikes his eye as incorrect. In other
words, Form is the proper organ for spelling and reading, and
therefore children should be taught to read and spell by the
looks of words, not by rote. And this cultivates the organ of
Form, or the natural organ for reading and spelling.
To cultivate this faculty, bear in mind the countenances of
those you see, so that you may know them again. Formerly,
the circus performers and exhibitors of live animals, often
allowed those who visited them in the forenoon, to pass in
free in the afternoon or evening. If they gave tickets, they
would be transferred, so that others would go in. Hence, the
door-keeper was compelled to recollect them. To do this,
he was obliged to look shar'ply, not at their dress, which might
be changed, but at their faces. I have seen scores of trials,
and every device contrived, to cheat the door-keeper, but never
saw a failure. I regarded this as almost supernatural, but now
see that their vigorous exercise of Form, enabled them to carry
faces in their eye. This is practiced very successfully on our
southern and western travelling routes. The collectors on the
steamboats, rail-roads, &c, are obliged to remember who has
paid, and who not, and where they came on board. I appeal
whether their powerin this respect is not often remarkable
—
all from its exercise. .
In England, there is a class of persons
connected with prisons whose business is to detect old con-
victs. They closely scrutinize every one who is brought in,
looking at every peculiarity in the form of the nose, or its
insertion, at the mouth, eyes, forehead, shape of the body, &c,
and rarely allow any one who has been in before, to pass
undetected.
THE
AMERICAN PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL,
O. S. Fowler, Practical Phrenoolgist, Editor and Proprietor.
PROSPECTUS OF VOLUME IV.
The first leading object of the Editor of this Journal, will be to
spread before the public the great amount and variety of phrenological
<acts, applications, suggestions, and interesting miscellaneous matter,
collected in the extensive practice ofhis profession. In order to systemat-
ize, and yet diversify, this matter, sixteen pages each month will be made
eminently practical, and calculated to teach beginners the science. It
will contain a record of the most interesting facts that occur, illustrated
by cuts; directions useful to learners ; short reviews of works for and
against the science, as well as its history, progress, and existing state;
and notices of societies ; together with miscellaneous matter of perma-
nent interest and value, &c, &c. The other thirty-two pages per month,
will contain the following original works, paged separately
:
I. Phrenology and Physiology applied to Education and Self-
Improvement—Including the means of increasing and decreasing every
organ, and the application of the principles of Phrenology to mental dis-
cipline, to the cultivation of every kind of memory, and to self-govern-
ment and self-improvement. In short, this work will show, 1st, what
constitutes a good phrenological head, and 2d, how to attain this most
desirable end by strengthening weak organs, and subduing those that are
too strong, not only in children, but also in every individual for himself.
It is designed to assist parents and teachers in conducting the intellectual
education, and moral training and government of children ; and to aid
all,, especially the young, in restraining excesses, supplying defects, and
forming and improving their own characters.
II. Phrenology and Physiology applied to Matrimony—Or the
analysis of the Domestic Faculties, and the phrenological rules and princi-
ples which should govern us in selecting companions for life, and in
living with those already selected. By showing what organizations and
phrenological developments can harmonize with each other in feeling and
object, and what cannot, this work will be calculated to prevent unhappy
marriages ; to diminish or remove causes of dissatisfaction or discord
between husbands and wives; and to promote unity of object and con-
geniality of feeling between them by showing them how to adapt them-
selves to the phrenological developments of each other; conducting all
who follow its principles to a happy " union for life " with a "kindred
spirit."
III. Hereditary Descent—Its Principles and Facts.—This
work will consist mainly of facts in proof and illustration of those
principles which govern the transmission of mental and physical qual-
ities from parents to children, through successive generations, with
directions, particularly to mothers, for applying these principles to the
physical, intellectual and moral improvement of mankind, and to the
production in offspring of whatever qualities maybe desired. No other*
subject is more important or less understood ; and as nothing but facts
can safely conduct us through this unexplored region, this work will
consist mainly of a compilation of well authenticated facts of this class,
mostly recorded for the first time, drawn from the history of families and
individuals, and especially of our pilgrim ancestors and their descend-
ants, showing that the mental and physical peculiarities, the forms of
body and face, the tastes, talents, prooeEsities, modes of thinking and
LIBRARY OF CONGRESS I
I
027 324 907 2
acting, the intellectual and other qualities of particular families of the
former, have descended through the whole line of their progeny, and
remain stamped even upon the present generation.
The materials for enriching the pages of this work will be drawn both
from the parental history of men distinguished either for talents or moral
worth, or vicious inclinations, and also from our prisons and peniten-
tiaries, our poor-houses, and asylums for the deaf and dumb, blind, in-
sane, diseased, &c, &c, as well as from that wide range of personal
observation thrown open to the Editor by his professional practice.
IV. The Natural Theology of Phrenology—-Its aspects on,'ana
harmony with, Revelation—Including the analysis of the Moral Facul-
ties ; the parallelism existing between the moral principles developed,
and duties taught by Phrenology, and those laid down in the Bible ; and
the bearings of Phrenology upon Fatalism, Materialism, Depravity, a
Future State, &c, &c. By demonstrating the entire harmony existing
between the moral code of Phrenology and the fundamental doctrines
and duties taught in Scripture, this work will tend to establish the truth
of both, and at the same time fearlessly expose some of those false doc-
trines and injurious practices engrafted upon Christianity by some
modern religionists.
Terms.—$2 per vol. single copy, three copies for $5, or seven copies
for $10 ; in all cases in advance, the work being published exclusively
on the cash system. Back volumes for sale. Address subscriptions
and communications, postpaid, to O. S. Fowler, Editor and Propri-
etor, 135 Nassau Street, New York.
FOR SALE.
Fowlers Phrenology,—A Practical Treatise, of 500 pages, contain-
ing a description of each faculty in six states of development, with the
Phrenological Developments of many of our distinguised men.
Synopsis of Phrenology,—24 pages, containing a brief description of
each organ in seven degrees of development, designed for recording Phre-
nological examinations.
Fowler on Matrimony, Founded on Phrenology—48 pages, dis-
cussing man's social and marriage relations ; directing candidates for
marriage how to select companions for life whose feelings, tastes and
objects, harmonize with their own. .Price \2l cts., or $8 per hundred.
Also, Phrenological Almanacs for 1840-1 & 2; Busts and Specimens,
including the whole of Combe's splendid collection, with casts of which
societies and private libraries can be supplied. Busts and Masks taken
from the head and face, being exact transcripts of their originals. Also
^Drawings, Paintings, and Busts of distinguished characters.
