{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n1_for_what_are_we_searching.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N1 For What Are We Searching","mylang":"de"}
lectures
“For What Are W
e
Searching?”
BEING THE FIRST OF
The Galahad Scripts
HE GALAHAD SCRIPTS constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric History of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first forms of human-life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantean and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer of 1932 and have been recorded
and preserved in this form for students of\the Foundation Fel­
lowship. C The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of Metaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in Mortality and 'for accurate
knowledge of the souVs enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth.
THE NEW TORE
PUBLIC LIBRARY
ASTOR, LENOX AND
T1LDEN FOUNDATIONS
B 1940 L
THE GALAHAD SCRIPTS ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS OF THE FOUNDA-
TION FELLOWSHIP BY PELLEY PUBLISHERS OF
ASHEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA : POSTOFFICE
BOX 2630 : SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE
LIBERATION SCRIPTS, ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR,
ONE HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE
COURSE TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY if if
For What are We Searching?
FIRST LECTURE
OMETHING like forty-five years ago, in the
city of London, England, a young man ap­
peared at the office of a printing establishment
one morning with the rough draft of a little
weekly journal in his hand. He wanted to
know how much the printer would charge
him to produce a thousand copies.
“What are you going to call this paper?” the
lad was asked. ^ “Answers1
“ he responded.
€
]J“What do you mean, ‘Answers’? Answers
to what?” And the printer turned over the
sample pages, sixteen of them, not quite as big as our tabloids of the
present.
“Answers to things that people want to know.”
“There’s a whole world of things that people want to know.”
“I know it. That’s why 1want to print a paper that’ll tell ’em. 1read
somewhere once that the first thing the public spends money for, in
the biggest quantity, is food and shelter. The next biggest bill it pays,
is for things that come under the head of Education.”
“Nothing strange about that!”
“No, but what’s Education? I’ve figured out it’s merely being in­
formed about things that on the whole stack up as mysteries. After
the public has paid its bill for the privilege of keeping alive, its next
biggest bill is paid to buy answers to what life’s all about. But here’s
a difference. People are forced to pay the first, or die. The second
they pay voluntarily. Because they want to know! Don’t you want
to know what life’s all about? ”
3
“Sure,” said the printer, “but don’t tell me that you’ve got the answers
in this bally paper?”
“The smallest scrap of information I might print in this paper,” de­
clared the lad, “is an answer to the universe, insofar as it applies. If
we had scraps of information enough, the Life Riddle would be
solved.
“You’re not so dumb,” the printer acknowledged.
“I’m going to start this paper as a sort of Questions and Answers Box
for the things that puzzle people. But more than that, I aim to search
the press of all the countries in the world and clip out all the items that
supply queer information on subjects that people wouldn’t otherwise
hear about. I’m going to fill sixteen pages with such valuable anec­
dotes, and see what happens.”
The story goes that the printer became so interested to find out if the
lad was right—if people would pay good money just to be informed of
essential facts in short pithy doses—that he agreed to print the first
issue and see how it sold. To the printer’s amazement, the paper had
not been out a day before the lad was back, wanting five thousand
copies. The second issue the paper went to ten thousand copies. Ina
month it was selling from twenty-five to fifty thousand copies a w
eek.
IJ There was not a doubt about it, people WOULD pay to be toldthe
answers to what they beheld in life that mystified them.
The young man’s name was Alfred Harmsworth. When he andhis
brother had firmly established “Answers,” they branched out in other
kinds of publishing. When Alfred had made a million pounds byfur­
nishing people information in squibs that they could not get otherwise,
and controlled half a dozen great newspapers, he was knighted byhis
government $$
He became Lord Northcliffe.
And the simple fundamental on which the colossal Northcliffe fortune
was built, was the one-cell idea: Tell people things that they haven’t
previously known and they will reward you with fame and fortune.
OUNG Harmsworth was right. Earth’s millions are
curious ip ip
Human life from the cradle to the grave is the entrancing
business of Ending out what the world is all about, or
what there is TO the world, and then applying such in­
formation to their profit or pleasure according to its
nature. t[ Even those forms of entertainment and recreation that show
themselves as most profitable financially—the movies for instance—
are basically Information Giving. Even the plot of a drama discloses to
one set of people how other people react to given social complications.
Professional baseball is only finding out whether the Giants are a more
skillful ballteam than the Braves.
When great scientists and inventors appear, why do they receive the
plaudits of press and public? Is it not because they have come to the
human race with new disclosures about atoms, or what they have
found out about the behavior of sun-spots, or how wings can be put
on a gasoline engine and people be flown through the skies in suc­
cessful aviation?
People want to KNOW. The best selling books in America today,
next to the Bible, are sets of encyclopedias. Both works are significant.
The Bible is the chief of all the best-sellers because it purports to fur­
nish information about the greatest of life’s mysteries: What becomes
of people when their bodies die and are buried in the ground? The
encyclopedias on the other hand are compendiums of all the reliable
and tested information which men have dug up about life in mortality.
IJ But right here we make a most amazing discovery.
One would imagine that if facts had been found out about what be­
comes of people after they leave their mortal bodies, or even if facts
had been found out about life in this material world—particularly
facts about all that has truly happened to the various races of men and
women, and their cultures and governments in past ages—they would
long ago have been released to the public generally, so that new in­
formation which people were willing to pay money to receive, would
be confined to fresh facts not previously suspected.
There are students of human affairs, however, who have privately
turned up evidence, or had it astoundingly revealed to them, that there
is a vast roster of information about certain phases of human affairs
that have happened in the past, and an appalling quota of enlighten­
ment as to why human life has developed on this planet and what
definite purpose it is serving day after day, that instead of being
5
given out to the public— for money or otherwise—are craftily
SUPPRESSED. y
Incredible as it may seem, it is just this Suppressed Information that
average human beings are most eager to know about.
For instance, explanations that make better sense than anything avail,
able to date as to why the planets ever came into being, why lifeap.
peared upon them, why the highest form of life became intelligent
reasoning creatures patterned physically after a sublimated form of
apes, and why these creatures are called to go through terrific experi­
ences giving them pleasure or pain for sixty or seventy years and then
seem to be completely erased and forgotten in each instance . . ,
these are matters that are the very crux of human learning. Yet re­
searches that might shed light on such mysteries are ignorantly dis­
paraged or viciously censored.
Or take the very earliest days of society upon this planet, the greatcul­
tures that must certainly have come to flower in ancient Lemuria or
Atlantis, the physical aspects of life on earth when most of our present
oceans were once suspended thousands of miles in the skies and hu­
manity was living under a colossal water canopy that finally plungedto
earth and brought the Flood of the Bible . . . such happenings are
the very core and soul of what men today consider to be their Religion.
Yet making the general public universally aware of what actuallyhap­
pened is most artfully avoided. A fantastic fairy tale instead issup­
plied them, about a man and woman who went naked in a beautiful
Garden, how the woman found a tree growing in that Garden w
hose
fruit she was forbidden to eat, how she ate it just the same and gave
more to her husband, how all of this so displeased the beneficent
Creator that he turned them both out fco shift for themselves.
But so full of holes and flaws is this nursery tale that whereas it says
at the start of it that this man and this woman were strictly the first
and only human creatures on earth, it immediately follows that w
hen
the ejected man and woman had two sons and one of them slewthe
other in a fit of jealous rage, the, murderer fled to a land namedN
od
and married himself a wife there. So one of two things must betrue:
either the man and woman who at first were naked in the Gardenw
ere
NOT the only human beings on earth—and the Lord had createda
whole lot of other people in this mythical Land of Nodf—or the story
from beginning to end is just a fairy tale and nothing more. Andif
it is a fairy tale, and yet included in so-called Holy Writ as true, then
how much of the rest of Holy Writ is fairy tale and not to bebelieved?
6
OW it seems incredible to assume that this episode about
Adam and Eve was first manufactured out of whole
cloth, that it was merely some imaginative person’s no­
tion while seeking to account for the original appearance
of men and women on this planet, and that it could have
lived and been cherished through thousands of genera­
tions to the exclusion of all other explanations, if it had no basis in
some sort of fact.
So, going to work on such an assumption, and probing into strange
places and strange libraries of unfrequented lore, studious researchers
of a valiant and courageous temperament have gradually grasped the
fact that the tale of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden has been
nothing more nor less than a cryptic way for recording a vast astro­
nomical process by which this planet was involved millions of years
ago, that all of it hasn’t been the account of a literal man and a literal
woman using a literal Garden as the earth's first nudist colony but has
been the method taken by the most ancient of Wise Men for drama­
tizing and preserving the most stupendous cosmic facts.
These Wise Men cherished their knowledge of the real situation, and
what actually happened, and did not want it to get out to the general
public. If all men and women everywhere knew the scientific basis for
the story, and grasped exactly what was being cryptically recorded in
the Genesis account, they would become quite as learned as those
Wise Men, and the latter might be deemed as no longer wise. To pre­
serve their own reputations for profundity they had to keep the true
facts hidden, or at least reserved in symbols to themselves. All the
same, society demanded to have SOME sort of plausible explanation
furnished it for the first appearance of earthly men and women. Then
again, it was necessary that as these Wise Men died, the cosmic secrets
behind their lore did not actually perish with them but remained in
existence to enlighten disciples who followed as Wise Men in their
footsteps
The all-around compromise that seemed to have been effected—or
rather the strategy that was hit upon by some brilliant brain or set of
brains—was to express the most marvelous astronomical and geo­
logical lore in the simple narrative of a mortal man and woman, in a
mortal situation, doing some very mortal and understandable things.
But really, known subtly to themselves and their novitiates, this nar­
rative was truly a sort of astronomical, geological, and biological
formulae by which the fundamentals of Creation might be kept in
7
existence and yet at the same time satisfy the curiosity of the common
crowd for the start of human life as each new generation of offspring
came into existence.
The funny part about what happened was, that somewhere along the
way, as whole generations of these Wise Men were taken out of lifeby
death, even their successors began to go askew on their astronomical,
geological, and biological data. In other words, they were not truly
Wise Men as their forebears had been Wise Men. They only filled
the shoes of those earlier authorities in the eyes of the public. O
f
course the public itself never suspected that anything was wrong.
Never having been informed of the reasons for the formulae, it was in
no position to determine or recognize that the newer generation of
wisemen in name only, was hoodwinking it.
So, having the authority and trappings of their predecessors, and find­
ing that society accepted them and looked to them for all sorts of
higher lore, and discovering to their still greater satisfaction that
mighty well-paid jobs resulted, this later crop of “authorities” became
as the dumb public that looked up to them. It accepted the literal
narrative as the facts instead of the astounding secret principles that
the narrative first dramatized—or made intelligible for people of
childlike intellects. Moreover, finding itself with the power to doso,
this hierarchy of wisemen who had forgotten or lost their wisdom,
forthwith began to persecute and run out of institutions of learning
anyone who challenged them or pointed out the probability that they
were false teachers.
In other words, they set up a dictatorship over learning that had lostits
true significance—to them or to anybody. They even went so far in
their arrogance as to add: “Not only are we possessors of a greater
lore than yours, but by nature of our vocations we have entered intoa
sort of personal partnership with God Himself. Whenever we speak,
it is the same as God speaking. If you challenge or decry us, youare
really challenging or decrying God Himself—and you’d better use
your imaginations and give a thought to what may happen, if you go
challenging or decrying the Maker of the universe.”
It was all done so awesomely, and it had such a terrific backgroundof
ancient authority, that a childlike and more or less terrified populace
decided that on the whole it was better to play safe. Better give
credence to what these Partners with God said, even if it didn’t leave
them so wise, than run the risk of displeasing the Almighty and ending
up the victim of some horrible catastrophe.
8
So in time a regular “closed corporation” of wisemen had the whole
field of human learning to themselves. Only it wasn’t learning at all.
What they took to be learning, which they passed on from class to
class of in-coming novitiates, was only the symbols and dramatizations
of the learning. But the grim joke on everybody was, even those
wisemen didn’t know it themselves.
That didn’t deter them, however, as the centuries went on, from be­
lieving that they knew, or from accepting that the symbols and the
dramatizations were of course the hard facts. They began to build up
great organizations of which they themselves were the only members.
It took a lot of time and trouble to get admitted to these. Only those
were accepted who had the inclination to believe as they did, that the
symbols and dramatizations were the lore they had to teach. So their
subsequent systems of education, either for their students or for the
mass of the great dumb public, became little else than exploring and
arguing the technical points of the narrative and erecting a great
Theological Hypothesis on whether or not it all happened exactly as
passed down to them.
HE MISCHIEVOUS part about the entire business was,
that after a time—so great had the educational, social,
political, and even financial power of these Wisemen-
Who-Weren’t-Wisemen become—that they were in a
position to influence schemes of government and eco­
nomics. In other words, to put it bluntly, they insisted
that their august conclusions be accepted not only on the spiritual
explanations for life, but as to how God wanted mortal men and
women to conduct their affairs in daily commerce, academics, and busi­
ness. And nobody could challenge them without the disturbing pos­
sibility of challenging the Almighty . . . who sometimes shot thun­
derbolts about the heavens in nerve-racking caprice.
It was all rather terrible. The blind were leading the blind and no one
could do anything about it or he might be struck by one of those
thunderbolts or more practical still, be kidnapped into some room be­
hind a so-called “temple” and have his eyes put out, his tongue cut
off, or his skin removed in strips.
It was in this horrid stalemate of learning and morals that a certain
Personage was suddenly born one winter’s night, over in Bethlehem
in Asia Minor. His father and mother had gone to Bethlehem to
pay their taxes and his mother was seized with childbirth in the
9
interval while they waited to interview the governor. She had her
baby in a tawdry stable-corner behind the hotel. But mark you what
happened . . .
That original lore which had been screened behind dramatic crypti-
cisms had not ALL been lost. Or rather, there were still mysterious
individuals in the world who knew the true facts, and that so-called
Worldly Wisemen were not such at all, but mainly political "big shots”
and academic imposters. They were even so well-posted in the ancient
lore that they knew that whenever the planets came into certain juxta­
positions imthe heavens, certain definite events had to likewise tran­
spire on earth. In other words, their TRUE lore had revealed to them
that human life on earth follows a sort of pattern that is dictated by the
lines and movements of a still more colossal pattern out among the
stars and constellations. Knowing about the more colossal pattern
out among the stars and constellations, they could estimate and deter­
mine with astounding accuracy that this particular Child was to be
born and approximately when, and approximately where. So, al­
though at the start of their journeying they were hundreds of miles
apart and had never met one another before, they all moved in to the
common point and ciame to the Manger in Bethlehem on exactly the
same night. And this was the night that the Woman gave birth to the
Baby under such crude and distressing circumstances. History says
that they "worshipped" this Baby, not because it WAS a baby but be­
cause their knowledge of True Lore had disclosed to them that prob­
ably the greatest Wise Man of many, many ages had reincarnated again
in this particular child’s body—a "Holy" personage in every sense in
which we might employ the word. What they really did was to come
and pay their respects to One who in time was going to try to unmask
and show up the false teachers and doctrinaires, and make a super­
human attempt to reveal to humanity that God wasn’t in partnership
with that hierarchy at all, that they had not the slightest fear based
on fact that they would be struck down by thunderbolts for insisting
that more satisfying accounts be given for the origin and purpose ofall
mortal life. Of course there was still that troublesome little item of
being taken into rooms behind the temples and having all sorts of
horrible things done to their physical bodies to make them loyal in their
faiths and confidences that the false big-wigs were quite as wise and
omnipotent as they wished society to go on believing that they were.
But over a period of time, that sort of thing might be overcome and
such barbarisms stopped by the very nature of the Real Truth being
10
restored. At least it must be tried.
So this Eternal Wise Man lived and grew to the stature of a man. And
after a series of remarkable personal experiences—all having their
prototypes in that Colossal Pattern out among the stars and constella­
tions—He started His preaching. Or rather. He started His
revelations. . . .
HERE were no newspapers at the time, of course. He
couldn’t buy time on the radio to tell people how they
had been hoodwinked, and what was the real fact be­
hind the Life Ordeal. He couldn’t make arrangements
to appear before the sound-camera and have His
speeches photographed along with His remarks, for
exhibition in sixteen hundred movie theaters on the same night—as
politicians can today. No, the only way left to Him was to get crowds
of people together in the local community houses called synagogues,
or out on the hillsides in the pleasant afternoons, or perhaps beside the
quiet sea where He could stand in a good-sized boat and talk to His
listeners grouped along the beach. So He did these things. And He
got down to tacks, as the modern saying has it, drew on His vast cosmic
wisdom, and insofar as the ecclesiastical big-wigs were concerned—
and their preposterous teachings that were not teachings—called a
spade a spade. Pretty soon He had the countryside stirred up. He
was telling people details about themselves and their reasons for being
in life that they had vaguely suspected for a good many years. He
began to show them just when and where the so-called Wisemen lost
their wisdom and were merely prating an empty form of it. He dis­
closed that they had no pull with the Divine Father of all things, and
it was blasphemy to say so. He showed them that organized social
life on this planet was really millenia old, that it was possible for men
and women to be born into the mortal vehicle not once but many times
and He called up a definite illustration of it in the fact that His cousin,
John the Baptist, was truly the reborn soul of the prophet Elias.
Of course, if this sort of thing were true, and men like John the Baptist
were the reborn souls of prophets like Elias, then people on dying out
of their earthly bodies by no means met the fate that the promoters of
the popular Theological Hypothesis said they did. Certainly a man
couldn’t die and go to some eternal judgment hall and be judged, and
be sentenced to a fiery place called Hell, and then presto show up a
few years or generations later as the reborn soul of a famous evan-
11
gelist. If so, Hell wouldn’t have seemed to have injured him much.
€J No, the whole explanation for things—that this stupefying young
Teacher was giving—was raising perfect Ned with the fiats and pro­
nouncements of those dignitaries who affected to know all about life,
and how it started on this earth, and where people went when they
died, and what happened to them if they failed to respect the digni­
taries, and believe everything they taught, and bring them generous
donations and contributions to keep them in good wines and fancy
vestments. He was, as we say today, “tipping over existing institu­
tions,’’ the existing institutions being in their day—as the menaced
potentates likewise put it in the present—themselves. Something had
to be done, and done in a hurry, to shut Him up. So they took counsel
together and conspired to have Him murdered. That was always a
good safe way to eliminate such opposition. Dead men told no tales
—certainly no tales on ecclesiastical big-wigs whose “drag’*with the
populace was being considerably upset.
This murder—called a crucifixion because of the particularly atrocious
manner in which it was consummated—was probably the most famous
killing in all civilized times. It seemed to cut down this Celestial
Teacher in the very height of His powers and just when He was really
most popular. But as always happens in such cases, it had reper­
cussions. The public that had been starved for exactly the information
that it stands ready to pay for and acquire in any age, began to give
serious attention to what the Celestial Teacher had uttered. His re­
marks began to be reviewed. Various little cults sprang up all over
Palestine, met to explore the True Doctrine propounded. It was satis­
fying material. It fed men’s souls. Hundreds were drawn to hear
the further teachings of His disciples. Soon these hundreds had
swollen to thousands.
It is always a bad plan to kill your opponent instead of facing him
down if you can. Sometimes he is stronger dead than alive.
At any rate, again something had to be done. So with the usual
stupidity of organized insolence, still more drastic measures were
resorted to, not against the Teacher this time for He was beyond any
more reprisals, but against those who had found His learning far more
rational and acceptable. Persecutions were started on a wholesale
basis t? i f
People who had been convinced that this Teacher was celestial in truth
because He had been able to reveal to them so much of the Lost Wis­
dom, began to be hunted down like beasts. Brutal soldiers were sent at
12
them to stamp them out in wholesale massacres. But again the results
disclosed that Truth itself cannot be permanently murdered. The
harder that error and insolence—and ecclesiastical racketeering—fights
for its life, the bigger the opposition it manufactures and the more
dogged it makes those who forever want the FACTS.
Those persecutions and massacres of the so-called “early” Christians
of course started whole families and tribes getting out of the oppres­
sion areas as fast as they could leave. They wouldn’t give up their
new-found wisdom and submit to the stodgy old commonplaces of
bombastic doctrine again, in which the big-wigs knew all about things
and everyone else must stay dumb on principle. Not at all. They
picked up their relatives and children, and dogs and cattle, and went
places . . . anywhere that gave them freedom to examine the new
instruction in peace and quiet, and worship the Divine Father after the
nature of their consciences.
All of which was about the worst possible thing that could have hap­
pened for the insolent patriarchs who were trying to crack down on
the entire opposition to save their souls and jobs alive. Because
wherever one of those persecuted families went, and took living
quarters, and began to hold meetings, and let their new neighbors hear
about the Lost Wisdom now being restored to them, immediately the
support for it increased a hundred, a thousand, ten thousand fold.
13
INALLY the frustrated and frightened authorities took
counsel among themselves. Scattering these “Chri*.
tians” with fire and sword wasn’t doing the business ^
all. They were proving themselves to be burning hay.
stacks among the tinder of the times. Attack them with
pitchforks and throw them about, and the wind picked
them up and blew them over into the next yard, or even the next farm,
or the next county, or the next State. And wherever a portion of the
blazing material landed, there at once a new fire started up. All of
Asia Minor was taking fire thus. It was even spreading as far west
as Rome. No knowing where it was going to stop.
“We’ve made a terrible mistake,” was the substance of what the pro­
fessional elders declared. “This is a situation where Force won't work.
We must have been crazy to think that it would. What we should
have done, and what we must do now, is not to combat this new
Doctrine openly. We’ve got to be more subtle. The thing we must
do is to worm into the counsels of these Christians, appear to be con­
verts, get into their organizations, and deftly and sagaciously try to
subvert them. Yes, we must “dynamite them from within.* We hear
that epistles and manuscripts are being compiled, preserving for the
progeny of these Christians exactly what the Celestial Teacher said.
We’ve got to get hold of those manuscripts. But this time we'd better
not try to destroy them. That again is a sort of Force. We want to
profit from these frightful mistakes of ours, and seem to be scholars,
interested in studying these teachings, seeing for ourselves that they
are correctly recorded. But all the same, never once must we lose
opportunity to blunt the edges of Christ's doctrine, and to incorrectly
record what He taught, so that in the long run we will mentally shep­
herd all these religious enthusiasts right back into our fold and under
our control as before.”
This seemed to be an excellent idea, and forthwith the mischief started.
The early Christians were childishly overjoyed to see their former
enemies and persecutors come around to their way of thinking, and
give serious attention themselves to the Lost Wisdom instead of fight­
ing it. They welcomed those clever strategists with open arms.
Very soon the patriarchs of the enemy, or their clever young agents,
were sitting in on big religious councils, called to “edit” the papers and
reports of the Messianic Speakings.
“First of all,” they suggested adroitly whenever they had the chance,
“if we want future generations to believe that this Man talked sense,
14
we’ve got to edit out all this nonsense about any human being, once
dead and buried, finding a way of coming back into life.”
‘‘But that’s the very heart of the Doctrine,” the protesters would de­
clare. ‘‘He said definitely and specifically, ‘1say unto you, ye shall be
born again of water and the spirit.’ How are we going to ignore such
statements? We know that in this Dispensation, water is the Earth
Sign. Human bodies are eighty-five percent water. A conjunction of
water and spirit can only mean rebirth into a new mortal body. Nico-
demus had a frightful time getting the process through his head. He
that had formerly come out of it as a baby. But the immortal spirit
going back and taking charge of a new human embryo is altogether
reasonable and we can see how it could happen. Then again, what
about the Transfiguration, and what the Messiah said concerning John.
If John had formerly been Elias, or if Elias had come back as John,
why can it not follow that ANY mortal can come back. John wasn’t
divine. Nowhere in the Doctrine does it say that he was anything other
thought a man entered back into his mother’s womb with the body
than an ordinary preacher doing ordinary things.”
‘‘I’ll tell you how to get around it,” some conniving elder may well
have responded. “Edit and delete all we can, but such material as we
can’t delete—such as the conversation with Nicodemus, or the state­
ments to Peter and John about Elias—we can present as having merely
a cryptic and mystical significance. We can call it that when a person
accepts this new faith, he is thereby ‘born again’ . . . make the
common man think it’s all a manner of referring to a beautiful after­
life and successfully getting into it. At any rate, the rebirth business
has got to come OUT. How are the church pontiffs going to claim that
they are in partnership with God and delegated with authority to con­
sign men to heaven or hell, if by some strange process, human spirits
find themselves able to come back into mortal life and enjoy the earthly
rewards they missed? We’ve GOT to protect those ecclesiastical po­
tentates in their control over men’s future lives or institutions will be
tipped over, society will fall to pieces!”
So gradually as they could, many of the most enlightening revelations
of the New Doctrine—which was really the Old Wisdom recovered—
were chopped and slashed and crossed out and thrown away. Over
two or three hundred years, with all the original disciples and “church
fathers” dead and in no place to protest or expose the skullduggery
physically, the populace was gradually herded back into the old ways
of thinking and believing: That after all, man was really dust of the
15
ground, that one man and one woman were once put in a literal
garden, and ate the fruit of a literal tree, and “sinned” and therefore
all of their progeny since were under their sentence of punishment.
A nd the great “closed corporations” on this knowledge that was
merely lost symbol came to the same power as before—with only a bit
of the new dogma added—but the implication not to be mistaken that
anyone who challenged what the patriarchs had decided on as Truth
should be taken into the back room and forthwith lose their eyesight
and their tongues as before. It would almost seem that the ministry
of the Galilean Carpenter had been performed for naught. Only here
again, as before, there was that mysterious little fact to be got around
that the ^isd o m as wisdom had not strictly been LOST . . . it simply
had gone AGAIN into a sort of hiding, cherished and preserved by
REAL wisemen, and in the proper turning of the cycles it would have
its fresh exponents who would fetch it forth and offer it to famished
humanity
T IS a study of exactly these precepts and fundamentals,
that over the years have been lost, and found, and lost
again and found again, that we shall be steadfastly en­
gaged in, over this series of forthcoming Lectures.
We are truly called to reconstruct an entirely subverted
exposition of indisputable cosmic facts, and fetch the
truth out for mankind to view again in all the beauty and logic of its
utterance
The facts that I am going to acquaint you with in this series of extra­
ordinary Historical Papers were all more or less well-known to the
ancients. They constituted the very fundamental and basic belief of
the early church fathers. They were proclaimed and commented upon
when the Pyramids were new and bright and glistening, along the
banks of the Nile. They have come down to us from legendary sources
perhaps, but after all, just what ARE legendary sources? Are they
not sources, I say again, wherein the most profound cosmic ethics
have been screened from the mischievous receptions of the unthinking
by embracing them in simple folklore tales that have much the same
spiritual effect on the listener as though he knew the qualifications
that birthed them in all their true natures and shades of spiritual
significance ?
Let us be sensible about these matters.
No one wants to overthrow real truth, or destroy it, or injure it, or
16
hide it away so that people can’t live by it. The Truth is the Truth.
It isn’t something that one man, or a group of men, have thought up
among themselves and offered to the multitude for whatever it can
pay. The Truth is the actual condition of affairs behind the mortal
scenes of life, the actual workings of the processes of Cosmos, the
way that Cosmos has operated behind civilizations and cultures of the
past, and what has been learnt from them to apply to today.
This is the errand to which we should set ourselves: that we must go
to whatever sources we may be led to, and glean as we can the cosmic
exposition lying hidden away for us, bring them out and revitalize
them, look at past civilizations and earth-processes and know them for
what they are.
How many people, for instance, have the faintest notion of what hap­
pened to Lot and his family in the land of Sodom, what tremendous
event in the planet’s history is told there in a simple story of the de­
struction of a city by fire from heaven, and the turning of the man's
wife into a pillar of salt?
How many of those reading these lines, or getting this first treatment
of the profundities we are going to have made clear for us, grasp the
slightest conception of the causes for the Deluge, who Noah truly was,
and what the deeper significance is of the Ark that Floated on the
Waters forty days and forty night?
And what of this world, and the kinds of civilization it was enjoying,
when the Deluge was precipitated, or before? Do you declare that no
man can know these things because it isn’t written down anywhere,
or because there are no people living now who could throw definite
light upon the occurrence by having witnessed it with their eyesight?
HOW DO YOU KNOW THERE ARE NO PEOPLE LIVING WHO
MIGHT FURNISH US WITH EXACT INFORMATION ABOUT
THE DAYS BEFORE THE DELUGE? Then again, take this matter
of the flight of the children of Israel out of the bondage of Pharoah,
and their entrance into a Land of Promise? Do you think the modern
Jews are meant? Have the modern sons of Judah the slightest right
to stand up and make the declaration that THEY, and they alone, are
God’s Chosen People?
It fairly beggars our intellects when we come to consider the stupen­
dous amounts of wisdom that have, in a manner of speaking, been
deliberately kept from our knowledge in order that great racial and
ecclesiastical hierarchies might still exert a fabulous partnership with
17
God and terrify people into paying them homage or surrendering to
them their lives and fortunes.
Let us consider some of these possibilities of Mystical Research—
HEN you went to school in your younger years, you were
taught that once upon a time this earth knew a great
“hot-house” era when ferns grew fifty feet tall and most
of the land surface was a spongy morass. Then came an
age of reptiles, prehistoric monsters, finally man. The
coming of man was made incidental with an Ice Age.
You were told that great glaciers moved down from the poles, freezing
everything in their pathways. You were not particularly told WHY
this planet seemed to pass from a hot-house condition to one of arctic
frigidity of itself. Modern education leaves you to decide it “just
happened.” . . .
The first men, you were told, were half-animal creatures who lived in
caves and were scarcely able to walk erect. They knew a Stone Age,
a Copper Age, a Bronze Age, finally an Iron Age. Then presto, and
by a mere flip of the academic page, you next encountered man in a
form of Egyptian civilization so far surpassing this twentieth century
in its attainments that modern engineers visit the Great Pyramid or
the ruins of Karnac or the great locks at Lake Titicaca—thousands of
feet high in the Andes Mountains where there is scarcely a lick of
water at all—and admit like little children that they haven’t the frailest
idea of how such masonry constructions could possibly have been
erected t?
From Egypt, however, you were rushed down through a consideration
of Persian and Greek history, and into the Roman as fast as possible.
Then you had medieval periods when society was feudal, the discovery
of America by Columbus, and man of the present moment.
This is the blueprint of history as taught in our modern institutions of
learning. Insofar as the urges of man’s spirit are concerned, or as he
can draw any inferences out of this hypothesis to help himself in his
practical living, it doesn't mean a thing. One of the main reasons that
it doesn’t mean a thing to him, is because it isn’t but a fraction of the
truth
in other words, THERE IS A VAST UNWRITTEN HISTORY OF
THE WORLD THAT ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS DO NOT
DARE TO EXPLORE BECAUSE THE SUBSEQUENT REVELA-
18
TIONS WOULD CAST DOWN AND DEMOLISH THE POWERS
OF THE GREAT THEOLOGICAL RACKETEERS THAT KEEP
SUCH INSTITUTIONS IN EXISTENCE!
How many of us, when we go out on hilltops on cloudless nights and
behold the stars and planets swinging in their orbits, know exactly
WHY these planets came there?
How many of us know how this planet of ours called Earth found be­
ing, and for what purpose it was required to come into reality at all?
{J How does the Almighty create a planet? Why is it that regularly in
the heavens we see stars of the fourteenth and fifteenth magnitude sud­
denly flaming and expanding until they become stars of the third or
second magnitude? . . . reaching, as astronomers say, the “nova
state . . . then seeming to die back into cosmic dust, a hundred times
smaller than they ever were to start with?
To go even further, how does Divinity create material? Christ knew
the secret. He took a few loaves of bread, we’re told, looked into the
mighty Light Pattern of Matter, blessed that which He held, and dis­
tributed food to five thousand people. The skeptic educated in our
modern institutions of learning says, “Stuff and nonsense, I don’t be­
lieve He ever did anything of the kind. I even have my doubts that He
ever existed.** Ask such a one if he knows what the Light Pattern of
Matter is, and he will turn you a blank stare. Of course he doesn’t.
The “patriarchs** have taken good care to see that he doesn’t. Having
lost all such knowledge themselves, they’re the blind leading the blind
with a vengeance. . . .
And yet that same Principle brought the worlds into being. We find
that forms of animal life appeared on this planet after its surface cooled
and it became stable. Species came and went. Humanity evolved.
Culture after culture, now buried beneath the waves of oceans or under
layers of desert sands, projected into later ages and dispensations those
legends or practices that wrought “religious’*structures.
By the same token, great catastrophes came. Men, not understand­
ing them, being denied the knowledge of certain great galvanisms in
Cosmos to which earth reacts, were encouraged to believe that an
angry God ruled over them. But God was not especially concerned
in them at all. Only because they had lost The Wisdom, and be­
come ignorant of the astronomical and geological causes behind the
cataclysms, did they picture the Creator as a satrap of vengeance. They
were encouraged in this, of course. An angry God would require an
19
53011B
appeasing by religious potentates. Then they could charge the sup­
plicants a good stiff price for their services. And most generally did.
€| Because a lot of snow has melted in the mountains in the springtime
and washed down a gully, destroying the myriads of insect lives en
route, should those insects if they are capable of reasoning declare the
Creator to be a destroyer? We as human beings behold only a torrent
resulting from melting snows, know that certain laws of the seasons
are performing, that if we do not want to get washed down with the
insects, we’d better get out of the way or walk on higher ground. And
yet in comparison, we as human “insects” conceive God as “wroth”
because our puny habitations are destroyed in vaster cosmic spring­
times ±?
Lemuria and Atlantis lie buried at this moment under fathoms of
waters. We say, catastrophes erased them. But your academic insti­
tutions will permit you to believe nothing of the sort. They will de­
liberately ignore the evidence that Atlantis existed at all, and at exactly
what date the catastrophe occurred. In the half-million words that lie
ahead for us to read, we are going to trace through the manufacture
and composition of this planet, to Atlantis and beyond. We are going
to understand the meaning of those mysterious statues on Easter
Island, a thousand miles off the west coast of South America, some of
them bigger than modern business buildings, and find out who erected
them, and for what purpose. We are going to see South America be­
fore the Andes Mountains pushed up 14,000 feet and took the Locks
of Titicaca with them. We are going to investigate these literal proofs
of the existence of Atlantis and see exactly what happened to the rest
of the world when a great ocean, the present Atlantic, suddenly span­
ned between North America and Europe. In central America there are
Mayan monuments that record mysterious dynasties going back into
history something like FIVE MILLION YEARS! When the Spanish
priests came to South America with Pizarro they found that the natives
already knew the significance of the Cross and had in their religious
tradition the full story of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden as well
as the Biblical account of the Deluge. Where did they get them? Did
nameless nomads from Asia wander across the Aleutian Island land-
bridge, bringing them to the so-called New World? The^why is there
no trace of such legends further north, or even in eastern Asia where
such nomads must have come from?
We are going to have the answers to these mysteries supplied us.
20
In the first chapter of Genesis it is reported that God said: “Let us
make man in our image. He did not say “my” image and our con­
ventional institutions of learning comfortably dismiss this fact by ex­
plaining that the Creator was using the editorial "we.” But in the
correct translation of the Hebrew, we do not find a personal God speak­
ing at all. The translation is, “And Elohim said, Let us make man in
our image." How many of us, worried sick about many of the hap­
penings in Genesis, and all the Adam and Eve business, and how the
first man “sinned” and got us all in bad, are aware that the “Elohim"
who did all the man-making and the punishing in Eden is literally
translated " . . . the gods that are the spirits of the stars."
Mark you that! The gods! Not singular, plural! And speaking from
the astronomer’s standpoint, that statement is not far wrong. Listen
to an amazing fact that foretells some of the wisdom that is in store
for you—
HEIN the great astronomer Hershel worked out on a flat
plane the design of the heavens and the positions and
locations of all the heavenly bodies, he found that his
diagram TOOK THE FORM OF A MAN! We in this
advanced teaching term it “The Great Man of the Skies."
A mightier fact in all these wonders is, that when we
hunt for the place of this planet earth in that colossal man-figure, we
find that it is located at the point of the heart. But our wonders do
not end there.
We are going to learn of a gigantic catastrophe that once happened in
the heavens, right here in our little solar system. Between Mars and
Jupiter there is an out-of-proportion empty space, or rather a space
occupied by a lot of little spherical worlds called Planetoids. We are
going to have the particulars of how a fearful collision took place in
that space at one time, twin planets known as Quain and Habal crash­
ing together and sending a gigantic fiery fragment off into the orbit of
our earth. For three weeks it traveled through the heavens to reach
us, gradually growing brighter and more terrible, becoming like a
mammoth fiery dragon or rather a “spear." . . .
Straight into the “earth-heart" of the Great Man of the Skies it
plunged, striking this earth with unspeakable results, wrapping a vast
igneous plaster from Montana to the Arabian peninsula, and sending
21
the planet into a wobble from which it has not recovered till this
moment
This “Fiery Monster from on High” is preserved in Greek mythology
as the legend of Phaethon, driving the runaway chariot of the sun and
burning up the earth in consequence. It serves as the origin for the
Chinese Dragon. We find the catastrophe memorialized in the Great
Serpent Mound in Adams County, Ohio, right here in the United
States ±p
Do you not grasp from the revelations in such occurrences—when you
have been given the full detail of them—the true significance of The
Christ “pierced in the side” by the spear of the Roman centurion?
Christ was literally the astronomical “Word” brought down into flesh.
His whole life epitomized the “passion” of our planet, the “passion”
of society in succeeding stages and cycles. Where in all secular or
sacred teachings will you find such terrific significances given into
your hands? . . .
When we really come to know The Christ, who was here among us
just “yesterday morning in eternity,” we do not find Him by any
means a petty teacher of a handful of disciples, wandering Palestine
and performing Indian fakir miracles. We discover Him to be The
Great Avatar, or mortal replica of “The Great Man of the Skies.”
The Christ of the Cross was a foreordination of vast cosmic events that
are first typified in the heavens above our heads.
HEN we get back into the times before the Deluge we
shall find the details of most of the worlds great civili­
zations worked out with accuracy in advance. We shall
discern then what their development meant, the cause of
their disintegrations or destructions, what happened on
the seeming ruins of them, what lessons or benefits we
are supposed to draw today from their existences. That, my friends,
is KNOWLEDGE! . . .
Now it is told us that history happened so-and-so because this or that
kingly braggart went on a bloody rampage, or this or that nation got
its back up to move over into another territory and seize its natural
resources— no meaning to it all, just a hodge-podge of silly squabbles
and childish bickerings. And yet back of such idiotic system of in­
struction a vaster yeast is working. Knowing accurately what is hap­
pening in the present is a matter of grasping the whole picture of
22
evolving man climbing a sort of Spiritual Ladder back to his lost estate,
or the condition it was in millenia ago when a vast migration of souls
came upon this planet through celestial space and proceeded to oc­
cupy it tp
Consider this matter of zodiacal significances. . . .
Everyone knows that our earth revolves about our sun in 365 days.
At one time it revolved about our sun in 360 days, but the Quain-
Habal catastrophe caused it to wobble as it sped about its orbit and
mixed up our worldly calendars in consequence.
By the same immutable principle we find the sun and all the planets
swirling around a central sun, Arcturus. Then we find Arcturus and
all its solar systems with their planets in turn, revolving around its
“centrosome” until it appears that the vast mass of planets and suns
and constellations seems to be in revolution around the heavenly body
Alcyone—known to the ancients as “the center of the universe.” . . .
Now follow carefully. . . .
It requires 25,867 years of solar time for our sun-system to complete
its greater “year” around Arcturus. The ancients discovered this in
a unique and peculiar manner. They found that if they took a certain
fixed star outside of our system and gauged the arc of our sun and its
planetary system thrpugh the heavens by it, the sun was exactly 59
minutes late in returning and registering exactly on that point. The
second year the sun was 59 minutes later still, or 118 minutes later
than when the computations began. As the years succeeded one an­
other, this tardiness mounted up until at the end of 25,867 years, the
solar system had “slipped back” around the whole circle of the zodiac
and come to register on the point where the ancients began taking their
calculations. And this arc seemed to be divided into twelve sections
or “celestial months” exactly as our solar year is divided into months.
Only instead of months they were designated as “houses,” from the
positions of distant star-groups behind them or about them as back­
grounds. . . .
Instead, further, of calling them by names like January, February,
March, etc., we find them called by certain “signs” which are hoary
with antiquity: Capricorn, Sagittarius, Scorpio, Libra, Virgo, Leo,
Cancer, Gemini, Taurus, Aries, Pisces, and Aquarius. The startling
practical value of all this is, that as our solar system moves through
these celestial month-houses, our whole system of earth-living alters.
Man undergoes wholly changed religious ideas and customs in the
23
mass, and even his social, political, and economic systems undergo
transformation i
f
f i
f
f *
Dividing the Celestial Year into twelve periods, we find that it take
approximately 2,1 56 years to “pass through” each one. Going back tke
last three or four signs, or approximately 8,624 years, we discern much
that blind history and false wisemen have failed to teach us about suck
stellar astronomy.
Picking up the solar system “passing through” the Sign of Taurus, the
Bull, we discover humanity worshipping the bull as the emblem of
fertility. This worship extended to the embalming of the bull. W
e
have the vestiges of this period of worship in the Sacred Cow of India
today that may go wandering through the streets at will, foraging un­
disciplined on whatever it takes a notion.
A span of 2,1 56 years under Taurus brings us into Aries, the Fire Sign.
And promptly from the worship of the Bull as a sacred animal, man
began to make fire the symbol of religious observance. Fire became
the great purifier. Burnt offerings were the order of religious sacrifice
—human as well as animal. A celestial holocaust seems to have
brought Sun worship to its height at this period. Then when we had
run through this Celestial Month, we entered into Pisces, the Sign of
Water. Humanity’s customs and religious symbolism altered again.
Water took the place of fire in spiritual observance.
The Great Galilean came in this sequence. Everything about His min­
istry in consequence partook of water. He walked on the water, He
commanded the stormy waves to be still. He chose His disciples from
among seemingly humble fishermen. All through the heraldry of
Christianity we find the fish employed as emblematic. The early Chris­
tians carved the fish on the walls of their catacombs, where they can be
seen to this day. Water became the great baptismal agent. In the
years that followed Christ and the Water period which His ministry
observed, we find water as the motif of human progress. Under this
Sign of Pisces the Fish, came the era of great maritime discovery. In
industry and science we have the development of the steam engine
for power and hydraulics for lifting.
According to these significances of celestial astronomy-—which is the
real cryptic meaning of Christianity—society is now entering into the
House (or month) of Aquarius, the Air Sign, or water “carrier.” . . .
It is now the age of the air, aviation, radio, psychical manifestation and
24
communication (the intellect) taking the places of both water and fire
as divine manifestations.
As we shall see in our discourse about the children of Israel wander­
ing in the Promised Land, and Joshua making the sun to stand still,
the Hebrew “passover” seems to have been only a fairy story again,
not to tell any yarn about an angel passing over Egypt and slaying the
first-born but to indicate a greater “passover” or passing-over, from
one celestial month-sign into another. And in those periods we shall
see happening symbolic occurrences in Exodus that have their proto­
types in society and social programs of Jtoday. This Land of Canaan
symbology is astronomical in that it signifies a Golden Age into which
humanity is proceeding in the wake of all this seeming economic
catastrophe of the present.
This is the Age of Intellect, in which mankind will make vast strides
in psychical development, which has not been approached since the
days of the last “Air Sign” of Gemini, in Atlantis. . . .
A great wave of psychical development is due all over the earth, I say,
for no reason at all that secular-minded men can discover. People will
be strangely stirred by seemingly supernatural happenings. All the
sciences that hitherto have been adjudged freaks, or the ravings of
fanatics, will suddenly come to the fore, to the gradual diminution of
gross mechanical inventions.
All of it is in the fulfillment of the astronomical law!
ND SO, I say, humankind reaches out and yearns for in­
formation about its present mortal state, and the nature
of the world in which it finds itself, eager to pay hard
money for “scraps of information” that pieced together
make up the great cosmic lore of the ages. C
f How can
anyone call himself “educated” and not be proficient in
all the titles that head up the Hundred Discourses that lie ahead.
Do you know that in all the universe, in all the ages of time that have
ever been, the heavenly bodies have never been in EXACTLY the
same positions twice—I mean in regards to all of them in relationship
to each other. Even our earth, revolving about our sun in what seems
to be a true and constant path, is slowly running down. There seems
to have been a time when it whirled through a night and a day in only
three hours. Now it rotates every twenty-four. Even OUR solar sys-
25
tem is not constant-patterned, much as it seems so to our earth-bound
gaze. Always there is a fractional degree of change.
The universe is ever expanding, widening, broadening, deploying
through limitless space, celestial year on celestial year. But the de­
gree of that expansion is known. The positions of the heavenly bodies
are known. Therefore true Wise Men, the kind that came that night
to see the “Great Man of the Skies” in His flesh, to use that mystical
terminology, can calculate both forward and backward and arrive at a
celestial season in which definite events will take, or have taken, place.
€| We have been told that the whole Cosmic Universe is like a great
gun that has been fired, and we as the finite universe are living in the
heart of the EVERLASTING DETONATION. If that detonation
should ever halt, then life in materials as we know it, would un­
doubtedly cease t?
True, we are living endlessly now, but we are not living in a universe
that is precisely the same. As it expands and broadens in geometric
Space so are we as spiritual beings mounting in a vast spiral in our
own evolution.
These are great subjects. If you want a new heaven and a new earth
opened to your gaze, if you want to begin to make “head and tail” to
what the universe is all about, and what experiences you are due to
have in it, plunge with me into a detailed study of this whole Valiant
Doctrine, . . . spiritual, historical, economic.
The Bible fundamentally IS true, only humanity does not dream the
terrible meaning beneath its symbology!
Let us begin to get a new grasp on true Religion, true History, true
Economics, by knowing the Lost Wisdom of the Magi in its pristine
beauty. . . .
