{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n7_when_mississippi_flowed_northward.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N7 When Mississippi Flowed Northward","mylang":"de"}
The Seventh of
T h e
'GALAHAD
lectures
“W hen the Mississippi
Flowed Northward”
BE(NG TH E SEVEN TH OF
y
The Galahad Lectures
*9
HE GALAHAD LECTU RES constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric History of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first forms of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-VeU, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantecm and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer of 1932 and have been recorded
and preserved in this form for students of\the Foundation Fel­
lowship. C The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of Metaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in Mortality and for accurate
knowledge of the soul’s enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth.
THE NEW YORK
PUBLIC LIBRARY
ASTOB, LENOX AND
T1LDEN FOUNDATIONS
B 1941 L
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BY PELLEY
PUBLISHERS OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA POSTOFFICE BOX 2630
SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE LIBERATION
SCRIPTS t* ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR ONE
HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE IN­
STRUCTION TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY
"When the Mississippi Flowed North"
SEVENTH LECTURE
Lterminated our last Lecture-Lesson at that
point in the planet’s development where it be­
gan to absorb water in terrific amounts. This
water absorption played no small part in the
emergence and contour of the various conti­
nents. <
fl We have seen that all the materials
that were later to compose the earth as we
now know it, were contained in the primor­
dial Energy from which our planet first de­
rived. This Energy in motion became a neb­
ula, its core being formed of substances of
heaviest specific gravity with the lighter materials spinning around
them on a more or less flat plane, far out into the reaches of Space,
with the water-sphere and atmosphere whirling in vast rings farthest
out from the center.
Bearing this in mind, we discern this core gradually cooling and slow­
ing down. When all the lighter materials in the nebula had been thrown
off into encircling rings by centrifugal force, the moon and other
planets began to act as brakes on the outer surfaces. This braking in­
fluence gradually caused the inside rings to lower. But they lowered
and finally fell to earth’s surface at the two poles, from where the
whirling motion of the infant earth distributed the substances of such
precipitations over its surface and built up the spherical form stratum
by stratum. £&
Naturally it took untold millennia to do this.
As the rings of heavier material were precipitated about the poles,
this necessarily laid down weight on the substrata of the infant earth.
3
fV
u
. J*3 , ' M
In time this weight increased the heat of the interior, because it exerted
pressure from above. This heat in turn wrought expansion. This
expansion took the form of terrific interior displacements and cata­
clysms, in which the materials in the strata, fused into a molten state,
were exploded up through the crust into the skies again and again.
But these subsequent explosions did not necessarily heave these ma­
terials as high as they had formerly been in the skies, and reduced to
a carbonaceous state by the burning processes they had undergone,
they presented new materials for later precipitations.
M
|OW existing throughout all this mass, at whatever height
or of whatever density, was a certain amount of mois­
ture. In the lower rings we might almost express it that
the moisture permeated the carbonaceous and mineral
masses, whereas thousands of miles still higher the car­
bonaceous and mineral matter permeated the water. Do
you get the difference? It is of tremendous importance.
It is of importance because as the lower and heavier rings or belts of
matter were precipitated, they brought their water content down with
them, whereas in the higher stratosphere the water as water stayed
aloft and formed rings and belts of its own, to come down ages later
in the form of deluges. This first water content must necessarily
have produced a steam condition over the fiery planet, although it also
exerted a cooling influence on the crust in its own right. As time went
on, we can see that the cooling earth must have imbibed this moisture
like a thirsty blotter. Comparatively small, and few and far between,
must have been the ponds, lakes, and oceans on the infant planet. Not
until the water canopy itself began to plunge earthward in overwhelm­
ing deluges where it lost speed at the poles, was there sufficient pre­
cipitation to form seas as we know them today.
The first of these canopy precipitations, not pure water but water load­
ed with metallic and mineral substances, must have formed the first
lakes and oceans, or found its way in and out, or over, the corrugated
surfaces of the thin cooling crust, as rivers and brooklets. Gradually
the seas began to build up, albeit they must have been seas of boiling
water in the beginning, deriving their temperature from the terrific
heat that must have played beneath the thin new crust for untold ages.
As successive water-canopy precipitations occurred, more water
reached the earth than its thirsty crust could absorb. This gathered in
basins and hollows and grew deeper and deeper. But those basins
and hollows in the new earth’s crust were nothing like the basins and
hollows existing on the earth today. The whole planet was so
plastic and malleable that they were little more than wrinkles
on its surface. These quickly overflowed, in a manner of speaking.
More water came down than could be confined in them. The history
of our planet must have been one long series of deluges. Gradually
that water must have spread more or less evenly over the whole plan­
et’s surface. Whereupon a new condition arose which became re­
sponsible for the raising of hills and mountains.
HESE later canopy precipitations were laying down im­
mense amounts of metallic and mineral substances in
the vicinities of the poles, as well as far down into the
temperate zones. When a water belt fell its content was
distributed over the earth’s surface fairly quickly because
of its liquid pliability. But immediately it touched earth,
it dropped its load of cosmic substances—or rather, the cosmic sub­
stances immediately sank to the bottoms of the rapidly forming oceans.
This of course made for weight, pressure, and heat, at or near the
place where the water precipitation was effected. Such telluric ma­
terial would not go flowing evenly all over the surface of the planet
like the free elastic waters. And yet, on the other hand, these waters
had a weight or volume all their own, which could not be ignored in
the behavior of the igneous processes in action far down under their
beds. jaf
What we should grasp is, that the deepening seas were exerting a
blanketing pressure on the new earth’s fragile crust. In places where
the crust was not cooled to the same depth as at others, the weight of
this water would depress the bottom of its basin. Or the crust, being
thinner or more igneous at one spot, would sag beneath the water’s
weight, pushing the fiery material under it to either side. This would
have the effect of interpenetrating what might be called the shore-
strata with this molten material, and humping up the crust at given
points, in ridges. As these ridges grew more and more pronounced,
the ocean water came to be confined by them.
This meant that the precipitations of cosmic material in the new water-
belts that came down, were also confined within given areas as both
alluvial and telluric materials settled. This caused still more weight
and pressure in the confined areas and aggravated the expansive pro­
cesses so as to keep them in a fairly molten condition most of the time.
5
<| This meant in turn that as this molten condition below the crust
increased, the flowing igneous material must have a place to go. It
could not rise upward because of the ever-increasing weight of the
ocean waters. It had to go laterally, penetrating between the shore
strata. As it was thus forced between such strata, the crust in­
shore had to rise. And the crust did rise. It rose higher and higher,
age by age. In this scheme of planetary hydraulics, the earth materials
were apparently lighter than the water materials composing the oceans.
So the mountain-building program began, augmented by the ex­
plosions of natural gas belts, perhaps, or by earthquake action which
we shall study separately in a future discourse.
OU will note, if you give it thought, that most of our great
mountain chains are reasonably close to vast water areas,
and you should grasp the reason therefor. A peculiarity
of this mountain-building, as we shall see also in a sub­
sequent discourse, was the watershed action exerted on
those water areas. Material is constantly being
washed down from these growing altitudes of land, to make weight on
the beds of adjacent seas, which in turn makes for pressure. The
pressure makes for heat, the heat makes for expansion, the material
cannot expand vertically because of the water weight above it, and,
seeking relief in lateral infusion, it thrusts itself in between the strata
underlying those mountains. When the mountains get high enough
so that the weight of the materials in them is fairly comparable to the
weight of the waters in the adjacent seas, then they seem to halt build­
ing, else we should have mountains rearing to unreasonable altitudes
and the earth get out of plumb. If the igneous material still keeps on
expanding without strata available for infusion, there is either an
earthquake or seaquake, and the proper adjustment is made in the
former through a volcano, or in the latter by a new sounding in the
ocean’s bed.
The average oceanic depth all over the globe at the present time is
about two miles. But a condition now prevails which did not prevail
in this planet’s infancy. All of the water rings which were suspended
aloft, forming the aqueous canopy, and whose precipitation resulted
in great deluges, have long since fallen to earth. Ever since the
last deluge, popularly known as the Flood of Noah, man has
beheld a clear heaven. We are now living upon a naked planet, ex­
posed to the brazen temperatures of unfiltered and unobstructed sun­
6
light, or blasts of interstellar cold. With no more wholesale precipita­
tions possible, the earth’s crust now adjusts itself to various weights
accruing almost exclusively from watershed accumulations on the
various sea bottoms, or from such adjustments as may come from the
melting of the polar ice-caps and the constant depositing of their allu­
vial content on the ocean beds of the north and south temperate zones.
This last point is not to be discounted.
You will notice, if you will recall your grammar-school geographies
or perhaps your travels abroad, that in both North and South America,
as well as on the Continent and in the Orient, most of the volcanic
areas of the globe are in the vicinity of or adjacent to areas where
there are tremendous spills of alluvial materials. Where do you find
the most active volcanic districts? First, in Iceland and Greenland
and in parts of Alaska. Why? Because in the north temperate zone,
these districts take the first influx of the melting northern ice-cap con­
stantly laying down strata of weight-pressure-heat materials. Next
consider the Mediterranean basin. Take Italy for instance. It has two
of the worst volcanoes on the globe, and the greatest number of earth­
quakes. This is because of the terrific amount of alluvial material
washing down year after year from the Alpine watershed. On the
northern side of this watershed, the water either drains off toward
Iceland, or spills in a curve westward, making one of the most treach­
erous earthquake areas on the globe: the ocean floor off Portugal,
where the drainage of the Tagus River causes a disastrous earthquake
regularly every 220 years.
Or take the western world. Consider that vast volcanic and earthquake
area in and around the Caribbean and the West Indies. Here is the sec­
tion of planet taking the gigantic spill from two of the mightiest rivers
on earth: the Amazon and the Mississippi. Both of them discharge
their alluvial content far out in the Atlantic Ocean. This alluvial ma­
terial lays down weight on the ocean floors in the neighborhood of the
West Indies, and every so often something has to give. Either the
crust that is Mexico “gives,” or there is a volcano or earthquake of
catastrophic proportions in the Central American countries or that
group of Caribbean islands off Florida. The same process operates
on the western coast of South America. Down from the heights of
the Andes come terrific avalanches of alluvial material that find their
settlement in the eastern shoals of the Pacific Ocean. The weight-
heat-pressure process operates as usual, and Peru and Chile continual­
ly report disturbances of the earth’s crust with loss of life.
7
The significance of these volcanic areas seems to be the working out
of a plain mathematical equation. Wherever you have land of suf­
ficient area, altitude, and slant to shed water in great amount into a
nearby ocean repository, you have weight, pressure, and heat, that
produce expansion. This expansion brings its accompanying vol­
canic activity, or earthquake. The accumulating of alluvial material
may go on unnoted for years or even generations. But it requires
only the final five pounds of weight to start the readjustment. This
readjustment may not take place immediately on the spot where the
material has been deposited: igneous conditions, or crust-stresses, may
cover vast distances. No matter. The relief comes in that district
where the crust is most fragile, though it may be hundreds of miles
from the original point of weight-laying.
ROBABLY some such process of weight-laying was re­
sponsible for the comparatively recent destruction of At­
lantis. Atlantis in its prime undoubtedly extended from
Iceland down to Buenos Aires, occupying most of the
present Atlantic basin from east to west. This great island
continent did not suddenly go down as one mass, but in
three sections—-from all of the testimony we can recover on the sub­
ject. The sea began to “eat" into the shores, especially on the North.
We have the same condition maintaining in Greenland and Britain
today—as well as in some parts of Labrador. In Greenland it is so
noticeable that no Greenlander will build his house within a score of
miles of shore. Five miles a year is the coast of Greenland, on the
south and east, going down. All of which means that deep, deep
down in the substrata an igneous condition is prevailing, infusing
strata east and west with its molten material, and making an increas­
ingly unstable foundation for our northernmost continent.
Atlantis has never gone down completely, of course. The Azores are
the mountain plateaus of old Atlantis still remaining out of water at
the present time. The breaking up of the continent first made the
islands of Rutga and Daita. In time Rutga submerged, leaving D
a-
ita, later called Posedonia, on which island was undoubtedly located
the Garden of the Hesperides, famed in Greek mythology. We shall
take up this Atlantean catastrophe in its proper place. The important
point to consider here is: that Atlantis was in danger of submergence
from the very beginning of crust-and-ocean-making on this planet,
he was an island continent, which meant that the sea on her northern
8
shore was constantly getting the weight of the alluvial material com­
ing from the melting polar ice-cap. When this weight got heavy
enough, the substrata became molten. When it found a lateral escape,
the weight of the great island continent acted as a stupendous plunger-
force from above, squeezing the molten material in all directions; but
the lateral movement of the underlying igneous materials did not
cease in time to save the surface of Atlantis from dropping
beneath the mean level of the surrounding waters. It must have
squeezed its whole foundation-strata out from beneath it. And when
the squeezing process was ended, the surface of Atlantis was 2,700
fathoms beneath the waves. Then too, there were undoubtedly great
natural gas belts in the strata which might also have been fired by this
molten matter, so squeezed, coming in contact with them.
ROM all the information that we can gather, scientifically
or psychometrically, there were many such natural gas
belts far, far down under archaic rock—or tremendous
gas chambers, the contents of which may have been dis­
tilled as though in a titanic retort in the bowels of the
earth. So long as there had not been enough surface
weight to make the necessary pressure to make the necessary heat,
those titanic gas chambers would continue to hold their contents in an
unexploded condition. And Atlantis, according to some authorities,
seemed to have been supported over one of these. Rut when the
pressure became great enough so that the walls of these chambers
were no longer of sufficient strength to retain their contents these
chambers “blew out,” and a vast field for subterranean readjustments
was immediately opened, which proceeded to exercise.
This igneous condition, so created far down in the substrata, has
other interesting and perhaps catastrophic effects on the earth’s sur­
face. Bear in mind that our planet is whirling at a speed of a thousand
miles an hour, from west to east. Out in Space, certain other planets
are exercising an antagonistic pull on its surface conditions. We all
know the effect which the moon has upon our tides. Consider then
the effect it might also have upon a vast section of crust whose under­
pinnings have suddenly gone molten. There might be a sudden titanic
heaving of the crust, or at least a disastrous slipping of the crust. Cer­
tain fanciful geographers delight to call attention on a map of the
world to the strange way in which the eastern coast of South America
seems to dovetail into the western coast of Africa. They like to con-
9
jecture from this that South America must at some time or other have
been joined to West Africa but skidded far over westward to her
present position. Such amateurs are not aware of the conformation
of Dolphin’s Ridge underneath the waves of the equatorial Atlantic,
which tell a very different story—as we shall see presently in our
proofs that Atlantis once did exist. For we have such proofs, and
they are scientifically irrefutable. But regardless of whether or not
South America slipped away from West Africa, we do know that
slippings of the crust have not been uncommon in other places; but
such slippings usually resolve themselves into a crumpling up of that
crust into certain types of interior mountain ranges. The process was
not unlike the crumpling up of a great blanket or canvas spread flat on
a floor. The folds and corrugations would give ranges and valleys.
But this slipping and crumpling would have still another effect too
often discounted by the geologically illiterate. It would result in the
whole surface of the globe’s being broken up into prisms of rock, the
cleavage of which would provide for those phenomena in Nature
known as earthquake faults.
N other words, as the earth’s crust cracked or heaved, ac­
cording to what might have been transpiring below—
perhaps miles below— or as it slid and crumpled, this
now cold crust fell together in a series of prisms,
which found their levels according to the pressures behind
them, from the sides of vast fields of them, or according
to the supporting strength of the foundation strata beneath them. May­
hap fissures came in these prisms and geysers shot up through them;
or mayhap the igneous material itself underlying them pushed its way
to the surface as volcanic eruptions. Mayhap too, as these crust
slippings occurred, colossal areas of stone and minerals parted com­
pany from other areas, and opened gaps so gigantic that modern hu­
manity walks through them as valleys.
All over the earth, especially in mountainous sections, you can prac­
tically trace the outlines of classes of igneous or sedimentary materials,
piled up in confusion against other classes of materials. You can find
where, under a certain lateral force applied horizontally, one type of
material that has been lying in a fairly even line against another type
of material, has fallen back— or dropped downward like the floor of
an elevator— leaving exposed that section against which it formerly
rested, but for which it never had a cementing affinity.
10
Furthermore, if you could investigate the composition of the crust,
even on both sides you would find that it has long since been broken
into ledges and prisms, all jumbled together, interlocked, or piled in
serried masses and the crevices filled with alluvial soil. If you could
continue your investigation of the entire curve of the earth you would
find it to be mostly a keystone arch. All of the prisms making up the
layers must necessarily have fallen against each other in a packed
condition that is the result of ages of “settling,” and yet the whole—
if you could penetrate down far enough—would be found to rest on
molten or semi-molten material.
Whether this condition goes down to the very core of the earth, we
have no means of knowing. The very fact that the heat increases as
we descend a shaft in a miner’s bucket, seems proof that from two to
five miles down we must arrive at a furnace condition. Certainly
we know that at certain depths the strata are in a condition so un­
stable as to be precarious for life on the surface. We are told by
reliable authority that up in Ontario, for instance, a condition is in­
creasing 3,000 feet down that has practically caused the abandonment
of mining operations for gold and silver ores: the strata are shifting
back and forth to such an extent that a shaft will go entirely out of
plumb while a bucket is descending. Arriving at the bottom of the
drop and glancing upward, the walls appear as bent as the crinkles in
a woman’s hairpin. And 3,000 feet down the duckboards along the
bottom of the borings wobble like a dory in a cove.
The strata underlying Ontario are practically all adrift and sooner or
later the effects of this unstable condition must manifest on the sur­
face. If the ground is becoming molten at unknown depths, it may
either mean that Mount Royal in Montreal—truly an extinct volcano
—bursts into activity again, or there may be a complete collapse of the
far-flung embankment that is the southern shores of the Great Lakes,
precipitating these waters down through our Middle West. As we shall
see later, Detroit and Chicago are only a matter of 15 or 20 feet above
the level of the Lakes. A drop in the land-bridge that runs from Mon­
treal out toward Julesburg, Colorado, would mean the draining of all
the water in the Great Lakes and even Hudson’s Bay, down toward
the Gulf of Mexico.
What the weight of this drainage would mean to the Caribbean Sea
area is appalling to contemplate.
11
C&M&hl |EIGHT, by the way, in whatever form we find it, is much
of a mystery despite delineations of physics. We know,
for instance, that if a man stands on Pike’s Peak, he
weighs less than when standing on the seashore. Ap­
parently the closer we get to the center of the earth, the
heavier we become. Merely as a philosophical supposi­
tion, you should weigh your most at the exact middle of the globe.
And yet if you stood in the exact middle of the globe, you might
wonder what your weight would truly be and what magnetic force
would supply it.
This kind of a query, seriously considered, advances much of an argu­
ment for the Etheric Drift theory. By this I mean, that scientists of to­
morrow may discover that weight is truly a pressure of the ether on
an object from above, according to the density of the ether over it.
Thus a condition would be arrived at in the middle of the earth where
the etheric pressure might be equalized from all sides and the person
weigh absolutely nil. A movement of six inches to right or left, how­
ever, would immediately make that person “weigh” what was tanta­
mount to all the etheric pressure reaching or rearing above him. That,
however, is a divergence from our theme. W e are interested at the mo­
ment in the formation and contours of the crust of the cooled earth.
Descending to subterranean depths, I say, we encounter what seems
to be an unstable condition with increasing heat, but on the cooled
surface— after these many ages— there is a prism formation not un­
like a vast area of children’s blocks pushed one against the other in a
great curve that is the horizon.
In certain types of hinterland mountain ranges, where a crust-crum­
bling process has gone on, we find these prisms have been hoisted in
piles and then allowed to drop back into an arched position, in which
they remain so long as the planet endures. One side of this arch
presses against, or leans on, the other. The older they are, the harder
they press. Earthquake disturbances cannot affect them, for any
jiggling of the earth’s surface simply tamps them the more firmly to­
gether. For this reason you rarely have an earthquake on a moun­
tain height. Of course I except volcanoes, or so-called mountains that
are nothing but gigantic ant-halls made by the overflowing of lava or
the accumulations of scoria. I am writing of mountain ranges caused
by the upheaval and falling-together of sedimentary rock prisms in
the manner just described. The more shaking they receive, the more
stable they become.
12
But I grant you that this may happen: If such a mountain, or moun­
tain range, has been reused by the application of lateral pressures or
crust slidings and crumblings, a subterranean chamber may result, or
a hollow space beneath its arch, that may either fill up with igneous
material, or water, or natural gas. All of us know to what extent caves
are found in and under hills and mountains, proving the logic of our
hypothesis. And into these caves molten material may be forced—
to cool in process of time—or if the pressure be great, tear the top off
the apex of the arch and produce an active volcano.
4 THE steppes, plains or prairie areas of the globe, we
have a great assortment of different kinds of rock-prisms
being held together or in place either by pressure on the
sides from a distance, or because underneath there are
supporting strata, either igneous or aqueous, on which
they rest in a quiescent state perhaps for ages. If the
igneous or aqueous foundation finds an outlet, however, this prairie
level may rise of fall—presumably fall—and produce such a result as
happened in New Madrid, Mississippi, in 1811-1812. For three to
six months a terrific series of quakes occurred in our lower Middle
West that caused an untold loss of life among the Indian tribes, and
which can as easily occur again. Certainly it will occur if there be an
avalanche of Great Lakes water down toward the Gulf as I have just
mentioned.
The crust formations in these vast prairie sections are not unlike an
equally vast area of children’s blocks, I say, picked up or held support­
ed by the pressure of gigantic hands pushed against their outer edges.
Those prisms have become sifted over with alluvial material and look
solid and substantial when viewed upon the surface. Prairie sections,
or such flat land spaces, are really the most dangerous of places in
which to live, however, for at any moment there may come a disloca­
tion of the igneous or aqueous substrata and then the surface sways
disastrously. j%f
13
WROTE a moment ago of the damage done periodically
by the descent of alluvial material from some of the
world’s great mountain watersheds. In refreshing my
mind recently on data concerning the earth’s great major
disturbances, I came upon a geological account of the
great Lisbon earthquake of 1755 in which 60,000 peo­
ple lost their lives in a matter of six minutes. The territory which
Portugal occupies, as I have said, is adjacent to the ocean repository
for the alluvial content of the Tagus River coming from the water­
shed of the Pyrenees. But what struck me as both peculiar and sig­
nificant was the notation that over the past 800 years Portugal has had
a major quake inevitably every 220 years. In other words, it seems
to be apparent that it requires precisely 220 years to bring down
enough alluvial material to weigh the Ocean’s bed so that heat and
expansion result, and the expansion translate into a movement of the
crust prisms on or near the surface of the adjacent land.
We might turn to other great rivers of the earth and see that similar
alluvial combings and depositings have kept the earth’s crust in a vola­
tile condition. Look at Japan—placed geographically so that she occu­
pies an area that cannot help but be affected by the weight-pressure of
sediment poured down toward her by those great rivers of China—the
Yellow and the Yangtze. Consider the Indian earthquakes, or those
of the South Seas, apparently resulting from Pacific ocean-bed read­
justments from taking the spill of such great water courses as the
Ganges and Mekong rivers. Bear in mind that rivers do not stop
flowing and depositing their materials the instant they reach the oceans
—as viewed from the land’s surface. This outpouring, as from the
Mississippi, the Amazon, the Yellow, the Ganges, the Po, the Tagus,
continues for miles and miles out into “open” ocean. Furthermore,
the spread of sediment may not always affect the area directly under­
neath their mouths: the substrata may be solid enough to sustain such
sediment-weight near their mouths, but be in an extremely unstable
condition a few hundred miles out to sea—and the latter would be the
district to “give” and cause alterations of terrain.
Now some people think, in considering the earth’s crust, that an earth­
quake fault is much like the rip of a knife across the top of a loaf of
bread, something that starts in one place for no apparent reason and
goes zig-zagging around the country, and only in the areas that are
so touched by it are there earth-crust disturbances. After every great
quake, no matter in what part of the world it occurs, geologists com
e
14
forward with a limited amount of data concerning them. But news­
papers hesitate to alarm the lay mind by publicizing the information
that every one-to-ten miles all over the planet there is an earthquake
fault, < \ ; ::
Earthquake faults run in zig-zag series not unlike the patchwork crust
of a cranberry pie, usually from northeast to southwest in direction,
or from southeast to northwest in cross-faults sometimes called Pres­
sure Areas. You cannot pass over ten square miles of the earth’s crust
anywhere, without meeting with an earthquake fault, and the average
geologist can usually take you over a given area and show you an
earthquake fault every square mile.
The Atlanteans knew this. They knew specifically the construction
of the earth that created a certain type of hinterland mountain. They
knew that such a mountain made a perfect keystone arch, as I have al­
ready described, that gave stability for their habitations. Therefore
we find that most of the important Atlantean cities were built on hills
or mountains. If a quake came, the mountain would only shake hard­
er together, if indeed it shook at all.
Atlantis must have been the scene of a constant program of earth­
quakes, situated as it was in the middle of the open Atlantic where
vast deposits of alluvial material were continually settling on the
Ocean’s bed as the arctic ice-cap disintegrated. Consequently the
motif of their metropolitan architecture was the Step Formation,
usually on a hillside or mountainside—the type of Built-Back Terrac­
ing which we are now commencing to adopt in our city architecture,
not for safety, however, but for air and light.
The great palace in the center of Atlantis, which we shall touch upon
in a coming Lecture, and whose magnificence and architectural de­
tail never have been surpassed, was erected in such a way that it cov­
ered an entire mountain, with, a circular ramp mounting up its sides.
In the age that we are entering now, we may come into a generis!
knowledge of the practicality and safety of such architecture. For thou­
sands of years this great capital of Atlantis was noted for its central
city and central palace, its perpendicular walls rising in tiers, covered
over with orichalcum or copper sheathing. However, to return to our
subject—Earthquakes.
15
HEN we speak of earthquake faults, and name some of
them, we ordinarily refer to major fissures whose pat­
tern and extent have been mapped, because of their dis­
tinctive activity over a long period of time. A fault,
properly speaking, is a section of prism formation of one
composition that is detached from another section of
prism formation and that rubs against it, either obliquely or vertically
as the case may be. In some places these make themselves apparent
by the way in which they have raised or dropped, perhaps a few feet,
perhaps for miles. In the American Southwest, traversing the desert
particularly where New Mexico and Arizona join, one can behold
what appears to be a series of terraces, rising one above another from
the desert’s floor, that could not have been formed so lengthily or
symmetrically by weather erosion. Looking across the whole sweep
of country and noting these terraces, it is possible to pick out where
the earthquake faults lie, and where whole tablelands or valley floors
have dropped in far-flung sections.
As we look over the surface of North America, we find that the
Laurentians, the Catskills, the Alleghenies and the Ozarks constitute
our oldest mountain ranges in this western world—including the Blue
Ridge and Smoky chain in Virginia and the Carolinas. They were
undoubtedly raised to their present heights by the fiery plunger-force
exerted on the substrata by the sinking of Atlantis. Afar in the heart of
the continent we find the Rocky Mountains which seem to have been
raised by the hinterland crumbling process. Between these, spans a
mighty sweep of flat country that we too often dismiss by remarking
that it was once the bed of a great inland lake or sea. What we should
say is: it is a massive floor of rock prisms held together by lateral
pressure or because it is resting on igneous or aqueous substrata and
which has dropped to its present level because of the tremendous
water-pressure that once was exerted upon it.
All of the country from western Pennsylvania, in a great semi-circle
around to the Rockies in the vicinity of Denver, and down to about
Memphis, Tennessee, was once the area covered by Lake Agassiz, the
basin filled up by waters from the melting of the ice of the last glacial
period. Now “glacial periods” deserve a moment of attention.
OST people are aware that from time to time back over
the history of the continents, there have been so-called
Glacial Epochs, or Ice Ages. But comparatively few
know how they materialized or what wrought their dis­
appearance. We have to go back a bit and review brief­
ly the manufacture and disintegration of the many polar
ice-caps which our planet has experienced.
We have said that one by one the high water-rings drifted away from
the equatorial suspension, 17,000 miles aloft, and blanketed the earth
with a water canopy that gradually slurred off and fell to the poles as
the planet slowed in its whirling. As these rings came down in de­
luges in the regions toward the top and bottom of the earth, where
centrifugal force was practically nil, they turned to snow. This snow
fell in an instantaneous avalanche, a precipitation so swift and terrible
that animals like the mammoth were caught with trunks upraised and
foliage in the act of being eaten. Hitting the earth and blanketing it
to a depth of hundreds of feet, it packed into ridges and Valleys. Here
it was soaked down into a hard ice-pack by applications; of rain falling
in the more kindly seasons. Any one of you who once made a snow­
man in your childhood, know that you truly had an effigy of ice in
the morning after a warm rain followed by a quick freeze. So was
this celestial snow precipitation rendered into a kind of snow-ice.
C
J Now bear in mind two influences acting on that arctic ice-peak. The
first was the greenhouse condition that maintained farther southward
under such part of the canopy as had not yet fallen. This canopy not
only kept out the higher interstellar frigidity, but retained the heat
arising from the earth’s crust under which the molten interior of the
earth acted like furnace pipes running beneath the floor of a dwelling
house. The farther toward the equator one traveled, the more insuf­
ferable did this temperature become.
The second influence acting to disintegrate each polar snow-ice-pack,
or Ice Age, was the centrifugal whirling force of the planet itself.
Whatever fell near the poles must be moved toward the equator, be­
cause the surface at the equator was turning faster than land areas
near the poles. This throwing toward the equator might be imper­
ceptible to a man walking on the earth’s surface, but the blanketing
ice-cap was forcefully affected by it. The ice, as it melted on its lower
southern fringe, or broke off in glacial bergs, must travel southward
because of the centrifugal pull of the faster-turning equator. This
centrifugal pull carried both ice-fields and bergs from the naked-sky
17
arctic circle, in under the water ceiling of the canopy. The farther
south they were thus conveyed, the hotter became the confined tem­
perature they met with, and they were melted at a much faster rate
than are detached portions of the present polar ice-cap. The warmer
earth— its hot-house condition increasing as the equator was ap­
proached—made the glaciers move faster. We might even put it that
they became “more slippery on their bottoms” because the terrain
heat melted them fastest on their under-surfaces. Coming down into
the north temperate zone, they were changed to water. In the North
Atlantic they not only added to the ocean’s water volume but they
dropped their telluric material to the bottom. On the North American
continent they took the form of vast ice-fields, steadily traveling south­
ward and bearing stupendous quantities of metals, minerals and bould­
ers. By the time they arrived at a point that is now Wyoming they
encountered a great inland basin that was almost a sea in itself. This
basin, or inland sea, has been labeled Lake Agassiz, after the great
naturalist. Breaking off on reaching Lake Agassiz, the glaciers con­
tributed bergs to its water content, which in time disintegrated and
filled the Midwest basin to its brim.
The average depth of Lake Agassiz, whose ancient shore-lines can be
plainly discerned throughout Ohio and Indiana, was 500 feet. At
that height on the hills one can behold the rubble and water markings,
especially if the season be the spring, or late autumn when all foliage
has vanished and left such markings exposed.
OW this great basin did not drain into the Gulf of Mexico
as at present. It emptied out to the northeast, across
Ontario and into the North Atlantic in the vicinity of
Newfoundland. The Ozark and Tennessee mountains
presented an unbroken southern dam to hold back this
vast weight of water. Not until the alluvial repository
in the North Atlantic had become heavy enough to cause the subter­
ranean heat that pushed up the White Mountains and hills of Quebec
and New Brunswick by the fiery-hydraulic method, did Lake Agassiz’
depth grow great enough to spill over the Ozark Mountains and begin
cutting the Mississippi’s channel.
For untold ages the vast water content of Lake Agassiz, containing
not only the residue of melting glaciers and bergs but the watershed
precipitations from the Alleghenies on the east and the Rockies on the
west, reached its ocean outlet over the territory now traversed by
18
the St. Lawrence. In other words we might say that there was a
time when the Mississippi River ran northeastward instead of south­
ward— not the mile-wide river of the present of course, but at least
the watershed precipitations from hinterland terrain that now compose
the Mississippi.
Evidence that this hypothesis is correct, is found on the terrain itself
in the form of markings, and in the vast boulder fields that stretch
from Indiana and Ohio northeastward across New York and New
England. Strange it is, otherwise, that these great areas should be
covered with these boulders and that they should not be found in
exactly the same condition and profusion elsewhere.
What happened was: these glaciers traveling down from the arctic
circle after each water-ring precipitation had laid down a new polar
ice-cap, picked up and brought along great quantities of loose stone
and gravel, the former ranging all the way from pebbles to rock-
masses as big as ordinary dwelling houses. Reaching Lake Agassiz
and breaking off in the form of icebergs, these contingents of dis­
integrating glaciers floated free in America’s inland ocean, and as they
melted they dropped their mineral burdens. But these great bergs did
not melt in a day. Long before they began their titanic depositing of
pebbles and rocks they had responded to the influence of the northeast
current in Agassiz and gently worked their way toward its eastern or
northeastern shores. This northeast current was merely the pull of
the waters that were escaping out through the St. Lawrence channel;
but being far mightier than it is at present, it brought these bergs in
great coagulated masses over what is now New York and New
England1
.
An interesting side light on this berg activity is found in many places
throughout Indiana, Ohio and southern Michigan. Not all the bergs
congregated along Agassiz’eastern shores. Some of them extended to
such a depth below the water’s surface that their bottoms grounded
on hillock promontories on Lake Agassiz’ bed. Held so, they disin­
tegrated and dropped their alluvial loads in a deposit of materials that
make a museum for the geologist. Others may have had prodigious
boulders on their under-surfaces which acted as titanic plowshares as
the bergs floated eastward. Such plowshares gouged great grooves
across the submerged hills, that can be seen plainly to this day. Others
came to a complete halt where the weight of the berg or the force of
the current was not mighty enough to continue the furrow. Melting
in that halted position, they dropped the underlying boulder that had
19
acted as the plowshare, in the defile thus created, or at its end. Boulder
on boulder can thus be pointed out at present, like a mammoth e8g
deposited in a terrain nest by some prehistoric monster.
Sometimes the halted berg tilted and rocked in its position as its melt­
ing went on, and traces are apparent where such rocking and weighting
flattened the submarine promontory responsible for arresting the berg.
€| In the main, however, these free bergs gathered over that great
reach of country from Ohio eastward. Particularly in Vermont and
Massachusetts did they scatter their contents in a mighty graveyard
of glacial rocks. And today the meadows and pastures of New Eng-
land are but a thin layer of erosive soil laid over these acres of rocky
deposits, so that the New England farmers speak colloquially of “filing
the sheep’s noses so that the animals can get the grass between the
rocks.” jy
Under the greenhouse roof of the very ancient world, these polar ice­
caps disintegrated at a much faster rate than the present one is doings
as I have said. So mankind had the Ice Ages, one by one. But it
was the disappearance of Lake Agassiz, as a lake, that wrought the
true contour of the North American continent in which we are par­
ticularly interested.
HE disappearance of Lake Agassiz is explained very
simply when we recall our weight-pressure-heat-expan-
sion hyopthesis for alluvial material deposited on an
ocean’s bed. For untold periods the melting bergs and
the watershed precipitations found vent through the
Ontario andi New England country. But their sedi­
mentary material was piling up on the ocean’s floor off Newfound­
land. As it piled, it made weight. Weight made internal pressure on
the submarine strata. This pressure generated heat and the heat fused
the strata into igneous material that “had to go somewhere.” . ..
It did go somewhere. It was forced by the same fiery hydraulics I have
previously described, under and beyond the western shores of the
Atlantic. The White Mountains and the Green Mountains began to
lift higher and higher. The heavily hilled country back of C
ape
Breton came up. The free egress of Lake Agassiz began to be choked
and stemmed. As it was choked, Lake Agassiz rose higher. There
is not lacking evidence that some of this molten material came to the
surface in fiery fountains of lava. Mount Royal near Montreal j*
practically an extinct volcano, and Mount Royal is not alone in this
20
regard. Earthquakes may have altered the Northeastern area of ter­
rain, as well. Lake Agassiz no longer got relief for her deepening
waters by plunging northeastward toward the Atlantic. She continued
to fill. She filled until the day came when she brimmed over the Ozark
Mountains in the vicinity of Memphis, Tennessee, and in that instant
the Mississippi River was born.
The Ozark Mountains in the vicinity of the point of brimming over
were of such composition that the water “ate” a channel quickly. The
wider the channel became, the more powerful grew the cutting force
because of the tremendous water pressure behind it. Soon the moun­
tain soil was going Gulf-ward at a terrific rate, and the Memphis Cut
was deepening to such an extent that Lake Agassiz was losing a far
greater volume of water than she had ever expended normally through
her former St. Lawrence vent.
With most of the polar ice-cap gone by this time, the glacial period
over for the moment and certain land formations becoming permanent
in the Ontario valley, the entire Middle West was completely drained.
Thereafter the drainage continued as the Mississippi River, but only
concerned in emptying toward the Gulf the watershed precipitations
from North, West, and East. The great Midwest found itself blanketed
with tons of rich alluvial soil that had been the sprinkling from the
glaciers and their bergs over untold centuries. The deeper parts of
the original basin, not touched by the Mississippi drainage, remained
filled with a certain smaller water volume, and we have the Great
Lakes to this day.
Thus North America as a continent began to take definite contour.
Just what happened in Central and South America is another story.
We know, for instance, that Central America was not always the
narrow isthmus that we discern it to be today. Probably there was
a time when Central America almost approximated the North Amer­
ican continent in width. This status was undoubtedly contempo­
raneous with Atlantis. When Atlantis sank, the great tidal wave that
accompanied the sinking did catastrophic things to the land areas
throughout Mexico and southward. As for South America itself, I
shall touch on terrain alterations there in a separate Lecture.
21
HE point that we are most interested in, as students of
the archaic processes which have resulted in our present
concepts of culture, is the little-known fact that North
America is truly the Old World, while Egypt and the
Mediterranean countries, with their accompanying
Grecian and Roman “civilizations,** compose the New
World. This contention is revolutionary to our accepted standards
of ethical thinking, but none the less it is a stupendous truth.
The Yazoo River in Mississippi was once known by the Indians as
The River of Magnificent Ruins. W hat ruins? There are no traces
of ruins along the Yazoo River today: merely a far-flung acreage of
cypress swamps. Throughout Ohio and Indiana we have the earth­
works of the Mound Builders. W e are accustomed and encouraged
to consider them as the handiwork of freak Indians who had a pro­
pensity for piling up gravel as some sort of a religious rite. We might
be severely jolted in this present shanty civilization of ours which w
e
arrogantly consider so advanced, to be told that the continent of North
America was once overrun by a race of men even more advanced in
the arts and sciences than we. W e shall consider some of the achieve­
ments of these races in our later studies.
Take road-making for instance. We think today that we know how
to make roads. We hold a public ceremony over the completion ofa
little strip of concrete eight inches thick, running one or two hundred
miles. The frost gets into it through half a dozen winters and in twenty
years it must be pulled up and relaid. The race of men that once
inhabited North and South America made their roads of solid rock,
four to ten feet thick, fifty feet wide, with protecting walls eight feet
thick, across mountain chasms, and they carried on such construction
for a thousand miles!
That was real road-making, and those roads have endured after fifty
centuries. They can be traveled over at the present moment in Peru
and Chile. W e cannot build roads that last and we cannot make en­
during buildings. Our buildings today are little tawdry mud huts,
albeit we call the mud-blocks brick, slammed against one another in
grotesque architecture that suits any owner’s fancy. One tilt of M
an­
hattan Island would send all of our modern New York skyscrapers
rattling off the Atlantic Shelf to the ocean’s bottom like a mass of tin
toys. We know nothing of the real achievements of the past, and yet
we are bombastically encouraged to continue in our ignorance anti
think we are the smartest and most advanced people who have ever
22
existed. The pity, and the folly, and the tragedy of it!
Before considering where life came from, to thrive on this planet,
however, let us take up a discourse on the subject of earthquakes and
terrain crust formation, as having a still more significant bearing on
our concepts of Divinity. . . .
23
