{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n19_where_man_got_his_idea_of_god_of_wrath.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N19 Where Man Got His Idea Of God Of Wrath","mylang":"de"}
Nineteenth of
K e W m
G
a l a h a d
'ECTURES
“Where Man Got H is Idea
of a God of W rath”
BEING THE NINETEENTH OF
The Galahad Lectures
HE GALAHAD LECTU RES constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric History of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first forms of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantean and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer of 1932 and have been recorded
andpreserved in this form for students o f]the Foundation Fel­
lowship. C The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of Metaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in Mortality and for accurate
knowledge of the souTs enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth.
planetary happening that put into man’s psychology the nmk l
m
.
a wrathful God, which superstitious reaction has maintain!^lty*
present, taf ^
As it evidently happened within the middle-Atlantean period ofvAyH
we are studying now, let us give the subject the attention which*
merits, in The Unwritten History of Man it stands out in starkest
dominance. Indeed, it is the cornerstone of all social and religious
thinking, both ancient and modern.
T o account for this reaction, we must acknowledge a most peculiar
phenom enon in hum an thought-processes. W e must take into account
the strange practice in which humankind indulges, and has indulged
alm ost from the beginning, of looking backward into antiquity for its
gods or religious tenets, instead of to the present or the future. Far ^
better w ould it be for us if we did look for Deity in the present, nei r
backw ard nor forward because in the last analysis both are forms o
sloughing off moral and intellectual responsibility.
If w e say: The gods all lived Yesterday and the age of miracles must
ever be a m atter of antiquity, or if we declare— looking forward-—
* e
Golden Age or the rule of the Prince of Righteousness must be °1 *
future, God pity us today!— because we are going to include M e of
actuality in social compassion and spiritual understanding to inspire
and guide us in the present. W e are going to pattern our social aad
religious institutions on the attainments of yesteryear, on the one
hand, and rise on higher in our present concepts than the attainments
of our forefathers. Or we are going to gauge our theological achieve­
m ents and our ethical practices by a fanciful idealism, which may or
may not be based on practicalities.
As hum an nature is constituted throughout the earth at present, how­
ever, we know that it does look backward for its deities as realities,
and forward for its ideals in a sort of sentimental intellectualism. But
always the foundations, even for that sentimental intellectualism, are
laid in the past. There is something sacred about the past merely be­
cause it is the past. W hy this should be so, belongs in the realm of
the esoteric more than the historic and may be found adequately de­
lineated in the Liberation Scripts 60 and 61, on “Habit** and “Evn^rk
ence- Here we can only observe that if a thing has age, it is auto­
matically venerated. And nowhere does this obtain more than in those
concepts of what God is, brought down from olden times.
, true cause of this strange practice is, that in looking
'5
U
S ' for'ideals or objects of sacred veneration, we minimize the
^ t of conjecture History maintains that certain entities lived
fwhibited, and certain rites were performed and practices indulged
£ therefore we of the present have something definite to which to tie
0
u
rfaiths and beliefs. Humankind accepts from its historians, sacred
a
n
dprofane, that certain individuals, truly divine or quasi-divine, did
exhibit themselves on earth and command veneration— or the type of
respect that is merited by celestiality. It says: “We are taking no
chanceswhen we look backward. \l/e know such-and-such an Avatar-
R
uler did exist, else He would not have been perpetuated so over­
whelmingly in ballad and romance. Therefore we are venerating
som
eone we are sure of. Tomorrow Christ will come, maybe. To-
m
orrowwe will graduate from fleshly bodies and stand in the presence
kUflTU*n .en Perfect, perhaps! We don’t know, but we will
,° if**! £randeur to come. We do know, however, about
ta w ich has gone. We can make no errors about that which has
happened. ±p
|LL this is pathetic to clear-eyed, truly educated Ladies and
Gentlemen Unafraid— as they may be scattered here and
there throughout the social body today— because they
observe hundreds of thousands of men and women wast­
ing their veneration and “retrograde adulation” on mere
, l ideas, conjectures, blind interpretations, or superstitions,
d
* j
^
ave keen catapulted by the ages into the years of the present,
and that are quite as fanciful as anything which the idealist may pro­
ject about tomorrow. The pathos comes in the fact that people of the
present not only think these ideas, conjectures, interpretations and
superstitions are as actual as the persons or circumstances that birthed
them, but they are eager to take up arms and shed blood in defense of
such reality. At least they let those ideas, conjectures, interpretations
and superstitions compose the basic pattern for their social conduct of
the present, and are warped, inhibited and spiritually malformed in
consequence. When a revealment of actual truth is subsequently
made a mad antagonism follows, a blind opposition, a fanatical remon­
strance that takes the form of intolerance, bloody suppression of in­
dividuals, and burnings at the stake.
Now going back in history, it is a fact that certain individuals of
. .1 — ^ . 1 1 . , • *
them head and shoulders above the masses of history. But more
___ C___ _ ---- ______ _ ____ _____ __ i re °hi
*
manifest, attracting attention to themselves in a manner that halv^
divine traits and attributes, either theological or political, didlw ^
581
re,
- >
8
tit.
as such, masquerading under the mantle of personalities, and
we confront ideas, conjectures, misinterpretations, and superstiti,
o
n
*
whole delivered to us as the projection of a divine reality, sent of
or taking on the aspest of God Himself, and given to posterity asail
adamant rock on which to rear its spiritual structures, either publico
r
personal.
To illustrate specifically, we have in our religion of today the pbe.
nomena of the Jewish patriarchs, notably Abraham and Moses. Ninety,
nine percent of Christendom, and certainly all of Jewry, accept w
ith-
out question that these two persons lived and performed all the offices
and wonders recorded in sacred chronology. Only one percent isatall
aware of the astonishing facts and truths eligible for investigation by
the most skeptical or the most orthodox, attesting that in all probability
no such person as either Abraham or Moses ever existed. They were
either humanized epitomizations of their times or cultures, or purely
fabrications brought forward to give foundation and prestige to a most
peculiar form of theological ethics. We shall take up this iconoclastic
presumption in its proper place—the real history of the Hebrews inthe
Land of Egypt and where all this Jewish mythology originated, and
why. t!* i f
The pity of it is, that immediately the cool-eyed and clear-brained stu­
dent makes such assertion, there is no general reaction that the facts
be investigated and the truth brought out. No, the general reaction is
a shriek of indictment that anyone should have the temerity to thus
libel God’s “Chosen People.’’
1came across a most weighty and profound volume of religious history
recently, the name of which I prefer not to state, in which that mali­
cious error and indictment was made in no kindly terms. With no
endeavor to get at the facts, preferring to ignore any facts and take the
assumption for the truth, the dogmatic author declared: “No greater
libel has ever been uttered against a great people, than that Abraham
and Moses never existed. All of it savors of the Higher Criticism ”
And having dismissed the matter in these terms, the author goes on
to rear his structure of theological cocksureness on the same old errors
' a
C
t
y
tP A
y
X
tb<
ec
c
t
6
f
Id superstitions and m egalom anias, th at produced the D ark
th«881,1d^re still holding us in them , intellectually. A nd a thousand
A
gC
l aians, and a billion laym en, applaud vociferously. It totally
b*0°gau 0f them that they are subtly trained and encouraged, year
and generation after generation, to endorse this archaic as-
3 mption, for strategic reasons on the p art of the Israelites them selves,
fake away Abraham and M oses and w hat is left of Jew ry? T ake aw ay
Biblical account of the origins of the H ebrew s and their sufferings
andpersecutions in Egypt and elsew here, and w hat of the acceptance
that they are God’s Chosen People? T ake aw ay the acceptance that
they are God’s Chosen People and w hence w ould come the social and
economic advantages w hich they are perm itted to enjoy throughout
Christendom because of that preference? Both Jerem iah and Ezra
were aware of this, of course, w hen they compiled the Pentateuch and
the Torah and thus gave a literature to a nom ad, predatory people—
which meant an identity throughout future time. By declaring “Thus
saith the Lor<J, * and sanctifying such authorization by the passing of
centuries, the m egalomania and self-aggrandizem ent become a theo­
logical, social, and economic fiat; and blood m ust be shed to adequately
correct it and arrive at the truth.
AM w ell aware of the questions that im m ediately arise in
your mind, regarding the references of Jesus to the Jew-
\ (g g * M ish patriarchs. W e shall discuss them specifically when
is Wa v wM w e com e to them , and see just what H e did say, what
H e m eant to im ply thereby, and what guises and sub­
stantiations have been made over a vast period of time
to present the arrogant hypothesis for the so-called Christian drama
that mankind endorses gloriously at the present m oment. Do not fear,
however, that w e shall discover anything that invalidates the essential
divinity and splendor of the Christian message. On the contrary, we
shall discover that it is enhanced, embellished and glorified by arriving
at the facts— and that the true story is so much greater than the H e­
braic censorings or discolorings, as to make their claims of the cen­
turies little more than the frantic assertions of a race of merchants that
“our department store is divinely specified as being the emporium at
which you shall do your trading because thus saith the Lord of your
fathers.’’ ,
We have neither libels nor prejudices nor insults to direct toward our
call tl
•fa
%
Jewish friends. To use a poker term, we would merely 1
hands'* on the arrogant assertion that they are the Almighty
ites, and more than the Irish, the Germans or the Hindus ar
Almighty's favorites. We shall indulge in no Higher Criticism ^
challenge to the divinity of Our Lord whom we love. We shall
proceed as rational, cool-eyed, fearless human beings, using theb
rai
with which God has endowed all of us, to get as near as we cantotK
truth of these matters, and let such actuality speak for itself.
N ot to deviate overm uch from our lecture on where mankind gets it*
legends or its legendary characters, or its notions that the Father of
O ur Lord Jesus in G ethsem ane is a creature of barbaric spleen, wefind
over and over again in the early myths of the Bible—particularly those
concerning the movem ents of the early Atlantean Egyptians as re­
corded in Gensis and Exodus— the projections of symbolic deployings
and adventurings of peoples congealed down to little actualities, and
these colored to advance the economic status or social prestige of
definite little groups. For instance, the real reason for the Atlantean
H ebrew s’ coming into Nilia in the first place is totally ignored, the
truth being a bit too unpalatable for reconciliation with subsequent
camaraderies with Deity. The reason why Pharaoh compelled the He­
brews to make bricks without straw, is happily deleted. The implica­
tions of hieroglyphics that Pharaoh was chasing the Hebrews out of
Egypt to be certain that he was rid of them, not pursuing them to make
them continued bondsmen, are presented to us as antithesis of the
facts. Their “wilderness” wandering was not a vast and terrible jour­
ney across thousands of miles of steppes and desert, as the unlearned
layman accepts, but a symbolic confusion of a group of spiritual incor-
rigibles, by their own Mosaic attestments! Bear in mind that the whole
area of the country in which the Hebrews were alleged to have wan­
dered for forty years, is a trifle less than 600 miles across. In other
words, if we choose to accept the literal story, it took them forty years
to go six hundred miles. That means it took them 24 days to go a
mere m ile! A baby could crawl that fast on its hands and knees. Do
w e seem a little hard on the Hebrews? Not at all! If their history is
authentic, it will stand up under the most trenchant research. And
if it is a sublime fabrication from beginning to end, the sooner we
know it the better for our souls, our theology, and our economic meta­
morphosis.
8
, aic theological presum ption is b u t an illustration of the point
ft* iving to prove: that there is a trait in h u m an n atu re th at m akes
lulling to accept that w hat is of the p ast is inviolate for the future,
jj/ goes back constantly to th at w hich has happened and w orships it.
Doubtless thig trait has its basis in the defense m echanism against a
\rld of change, of constant physical jeopardy, of alarm s, tragedies,
calamities. The heart-cry of h u m an ity is, “ G ive us som ething on
Jiich we can rely, som ething to stand upon th at is sure.** So the
groping is ever backwards, just as there exists in every m ortal, long
after reaching m aturity, the constant heartache to go back to the
certain securities of childhood and know the protection of m other and
father. ±* 2?
B
ut Life says, T hat is not the Plan! Y ou m ust step out boldly, cou­
rageously and confidently. T here is nothing in life that can w ork you
permanent injury, even though your flesh becomes m arred in your
struggling- and you m ust find it out.** A ll the chastisem ents we think
are so frightful, are m erely G od spatting our hands to keep us from
playing with fife, w hen our infant fingers w ould touch the hot stove
ofwrong experience.
HEN C aptain Cook w as killed by savages on his fatal ex­
pedition into the Pacific, he was immediately deified by
those who had slain him. H e came in a winged sailing
vessel, and those savages sanctified their fear— that he
would return in another such wonder ship and inflict
penalty upon them . They made a god of him in order
topropitiate his spirit. M ankind today looks back on the incident and
exclaims, “Poor savages! Cook was but a common seaman with a
spirit of daring, w ho had his place to fill in history and w ent on an
ill-starred voyage of exploration. Those islanders killed him, and then
deified him in abysm al ignorance.*’ Having commiserated with those
islanders, m ankind prom ptly proceeds to enact the same role in regard
to its own gods, and discerns no difference in its conduct! O ur God
came to us in an argosy of Spirit and we killed Him. Fearing He may
return and take a sort of spiritual tribute for our ignorance, we deify
Him A nd we are enlightened men and women— or so we call our­
selves.
9
Do not mistake me. I do not suggest that what has been 0f
ennoblement in the past should be treated with levity or di8r
w ithout due consideration for w hat it has contributed to
ethical and spiritual evolution. But we must get away, w e a ^
selves, from those infantile fixations that whatever has “gone
is eminently divine merely because it is now a stone in the mos^
history. Those fixations are preventing us from growing up ^
think the average person, fully grown and capable of bearing child *
or earning a living and enjoying the heritage of adults, is an object
pity when he or she persists in referring to father or mother as
or Mamma. W e have an especial term by which to describe them
W e say they are victims of arrested development. Well, not to pu|
too fine a point upon it, the human race as a whole is equally guilty0{
arrested development in referring to great personages in its history 0{
the past as Papa and Mamma. And it is inhibiting tens of thousands
of people in their contacts with one another and with life, all down the
line of human affairs. They have the same infantile concepts of what
they should be doing toward one another, their responsibilities toward
the past and toward the future, the same babyish processes of reason­
ing. Our work in this curriculum does not consist in debauching, how­
ever, but enhancing respect for divinity by helping the human race
escape from the arresting of its development. That is where the prac­
tical significance in this whole instruction lies—being able to look back
to the true facts, the true significances, the true origins, when we con­
front those men and women who would pull down stupendous symbols
and processes into petty little episodes of trivial circumstance. We
have to show them that the race is what it is, and people are what they
are, today, because of that backward tendency's coloring and influenc­
ing their social and economic relationships, continually harking back
to a past that is not accurately presented and trying to draw profit from
happenings that might well have been quite something else.
Begin to get the human race out of its arrested development in regard
to its notions concerning divinity, based on false concepts of how
divinity manifests, and the mind commences to expand, healthy spirit-
muscles find exercise, and there is an inclination to tackle other prob­
lems that formerly were sealed by theological fixations. There is a
changed psychology toward the wonders of creation, the researches of
science, the marvels of metapsychical phenomena, all presenting
10
• >v in a constantly sublimer aspect. We bring in the Golden
succeeding to it mentally.
of which, our theologies, our ethics, are held back and re-
essed at the present time to the standards of the one-time religions
\ Baal Instead of correcting ourselves in our “sins** by admitting
lat we are ignorant and should pursue wisdom until we have grasped
A
efolly of sin, we cut the Gordian Knot by the old Druid method of
selecting the largest and most obnoxious goat in our flock, placing all
0ur sins upon it, and hurling it over a precipice to dash to death on
rocks far below. The theory is, that our sins perish with it. It is the
scapegoat idea, which the Hebrews brought with them into Nilia from
Atlantis, or which was part of the Atlantean theology in its decadence.
True, today we substitute a Lamb for the goat and piously call it the
Vicarious Atonement. But the principle is the same. Always we
must have somebody do the thing for us, that we are too ignorant or
indolent to do for ourselves, even though it be standing up to punish­
ment for fatal follies. The vicarious atonement idea, or psychology,
persists throughout every phase of our social lives. We must have
vicarious atonement in political and commercial life. We must have
“leaders” to do for us what we are too ignorant or indolent to attend
to, ourselves.
Godsays in practice, and we have only to glance around us to observe
its truth, ‘‘One person’s suffering, or taking penalty upon himself, for
theerrors or shortcomings of another, never cured anyone of folly yet.
You are being sent hardships, and temptations, to make you stand
upon your own feet and learn the profit from them by concrete experi­
ence in your own right. Profit from them. Learn what is right and
what is wrong. Know adulthood by knowing spiritual sophistication.
Then you will become good by selecting Goodness through choice.
And the Golden Age will indeed be upon you. Furthermore, you will
have earned it!
11
t a g s *
j 'V*
■
OW I have gone into this pragmatic matter onlvL
it has a bearing on the mighty subject we have
to deal with, in this lecture. 1
1
1
In the earliest days of the race it was undoubtedly tru
as it is true of aboriginal man in the jungles 0f tk
*
present, that man believed in bad spirits that trip|*j I
him in the forest, made the mountains to overflow with fire, andsen
t
the flood to sweep away his habitations. It is a fundamental, exhau*.
tively shown by Frasier in his “Golden Bough,” that whatever m
an-
kind does not understand, it worships—or at least venerates. E
arly
man doubtless propitiated unfriendly spirits as he thought he sawthem
manifesting in nature and in his personal affairs.
But it is questionable, by all the sources to which we have access,
whether the Creator, as the Creator, after man in his thinking had
observed the order in the universe and concluded that it must come
from a Single Mind, was held to be a potentate of incarnate wrath,
until a mighty holocaust in the heavens stupefied men s brains andput
a species of horror into them that made God something to be propiti­
ated throughout all future time. j u k 1
I.refer to the cataclysmic collision of the twin planets, Quain and Haba,
that once were set in the heavens and eulogized as Lucifer.
Isaiah it is, who cries—
“How art thou fallen, O Lucifer,
Thou bright and shining morning star!
To what star was Isaiah referring? We have no “bright and shining
morning star” by the name of Lucifer, today.
The inference is, that there must have been at one time a star called
Lucifer. And if it is not in the heavens of the present, what became
9
1
V
of it? ±pr ±pr
In running down the mystery of its disappearance, we come into the
symbology of the whole vast “downfall of the Host,” apparently the
ideology of the “war in heaven” and the triumph of Michael, on which
literal conflict modern theology is reckoned.
Where did humanity get all these grandiose notions of a “war in
heaven” and the “casting out” of Lucifer and his angels, made so
potent in sacred literature by the early Italian poets? Surely it could
not have manufactured the drama out of its own brain, however fertile.
Something happened literally that was so apostrophized!
What was it?
12
I l* k a moment and consider Deity as mankind had evolved
S Utu5 many ages on Atlantis.
^ r t and faintest records speak to us of some sort of council of
I^C
&
r
that presided over the spiritual and political destinities of the
I rian and Atlantean world. Some ancient authorities take the
i I ^ lvc to mean twelve kings, or at least princes, the sons of the
I rthical Cronus who had the A tlantean sovereignty thus divided
I ong them. Strange indeed, it is, that this mystic figure twelve runs
jl trough ancient and modern mysticism. There are twelve signs in
tl,e zodiac, seeming to typify the twelve kingdoms of the potentates,
overwhich certain portions of the heavens spread. There are twelve
months in the year, each month being vaguely ascribed to the venera­
tionof the prehistoric prince-monarch. W hen the Great A vatar came
to earth to counsel man through the long cycle of reincarnational
processes, He brought with him the 144,000 of the Host of Lesser
Avatars. This figure is 12 times 12. W hen Jesus came to maturity
inGalilee—conjecturally in the twelfth month of the year— He chose
twelve disciples from among the Galilean fishermen.
I Goingback into the great Atlantean social, political and spiritual struc­
ture, we find twelve gods that presided over men’s destinies and who
became, in a transferred or transplanted state, the gods of the Greeks
andRomans. We have already had these named, in a previous lecture.
These were undoubtedly the twelve gods from whom the Egyptians
derived their kings. They were not gods, of course, in the sense of
I avatar-beings. They were high mystic potentates of great psychic
and temporal power, who instigated vast royal lines, the known suc­
cessors of whom were deified as their names and achievements faded
dimmer and dimmer into the mists of early world history.
But it never seems to have occurred to Atlantean man to connect such
“gods” with the actual creation of the universe, any more than it occurs
tothe Oriental today to connect the Omnipotent Being with an arbiter-
ship on human morals. They were mystic potentates, I say, but they
were more than all else political potentates. They had their families
and their feuds. They had a beginning and they had an end.
This Atlantean royal line gave the Pelasgians— who were the earliest
settlers in the Mediterranean country that later became Greece— their
subjects for religious veneration. They were “holy” and always above
the criticism of their mortal subjects— a phenomenon by no means
13
confined to potentates of G reek mythology.
B ut the G reat C reator w as som ething else besides.
T he G reat C reator w as best epitomized in men’s thinking
Sun, the giver of all light and life upon the earth. Amen-Ra
Egyptians best symbolizes this prim ary Nature Potentate. Before
as w e have seen, it w as the Serpent of the Abyss—the Good Sen*!
of the antediluvian Rings— presiding over the Tree of Life in
loftiest heavens.
B ut notice this peculiar fact, that always and forever, the Serpentpre.
siding over the Tree was a good Serpent, and when dethroned andean
dow n by A m en-Ra, or the Appeared Sun, he was superseded byauni­
versal spirit of blazoning benevolence. No one, in the wildest con­
jectures of imagination, arraigned the Sun as being anything other
than the galvanism of fertility, the origin of life and warmth andvisible
light by which the earth was made habitable. No thoughts of w
rath
could be attributed to Amen-Ra, the Visible Sun, because up to the
tim e he had done nothing to make men think otherwise of him. H
ow
could the Sun do anything that would make men think him as holding
anger or destruction?
W e have every evidence for believing that the decadence of the A
t*
lantean religion commenced when men were disillusioned even by this
ideal regarding the benevolent sun!
For up in the interplanetary areas presided over by the Sun, something
happened one day that gave the human species the greatest psycho­
logical shock that could be administered by any factors in the known
universe. . . .
Two planet-stars crashed together and sent a colossal projectile into
the earth’s orbit to strike it a mortal wound, from which the earth has
not recovered to the present!
14
o w the chances of two planets in the heavens' crashing
together, form a fascinating subject for study. Suppose
we look at the heavens for a moment. All of the
precious metals in the earth, over which mortal men
squabble so foolishly, are but a minute fraction of what
is exhibiting in gaseous form high in the reaches of inter-
H
ar space- Of the distances between these exhibits, the average
; ^has but the vaguest ideas. He knows that astronomers measure
hemby Light Years, or the distance covered by a beam ot light in a
sit
person
hole year while moving at the rate of 186,000 earthly miles per
jecond. ^
guthowmany people know that there are stars so dense that a mere
cubicinch of their material would weigh a ton? On the other hand,
thereare stars so flimsy that their density is only one-millionth that of
w
ater. There are stars composed of bulk so tenuous that enough of
their stuffs to fill the entire orbit of our earth around our sun, might
notweigh a scant dozen pounds.
W
e see other wonders, all reduced to sparkling points by distance:
starsa few thousand miles across, stars several hundred times as large
asoursun, stars no brighter than a flickering match, stars of a tempera­
tureexceeding that of our hottest carbon arcs.
D
r. J. S. Plaskett, of the Dominion Astronomical Observatory, Vic­
toria, B. C., declares that the diameter of the Milky Way is now esti­
mated at 50,000 Light Years—
—
or 6,000,000 million miles!
This would correspond to a train journey at 60 miles per hour for 14
million years. The traveler bold enough to venture across the universe
would require 700 billion years to span the diameter of the Milky Way.
f Stars on the edge of this system do not need traveling regulations.
Many are 5 million miles apart, declares Dr. Plaskett, and a gap of one
million miles separates our sun from the nearest star— thus showing the
infinitesimal chance of collision. Our own earth, recollect, is 92 mil­
lion miles away from our sun.
That the galaxy of the Milky Way is a great disc of stars and star
clouds, some 200,000 Light Years in diameter but only 10,000 Light
Years in thickness, was asserted in 1918 by Harlow Shapley, director
of Harvard Observatory. Our sun is far from being in the center of
this gigantic system, but only the center of an insignificant star cloud,
known to inhabitants of the earth as a “local cluster’*! Recently scien-
15
tists have developed a theory that the whole galactic system is
in its own plane, like a spinning disc, the center of rotation bein^iS
where the clouds of the Milky Way are thickest.
It is difficult to prove that the whole galactic system is in motion
if it turned as a whole there would be nothing to compare it with
no movement could be detected. But it has been discovered by^
observatory at Victoria that the most distant stars move more 8loy
than those near the center of the system, just as the outer planets of
the solar system move more slowly than the inner planets.
Stars from 250 to tens of thousands of times brighter than the sun
visible in worlds a million Light Years and more away, furnish the
keys to unlock m any of the mysteries of astronomy. Such brilliant
stars are called Super-Giants. They are found, though rather uncom­
monly, in our Milky W ay, in the clusters of stars, and even in far-off
galaxies, such as the great Andromeda Nebula. They differ in many
characteristics from the normal stars, and the differences make them
at once peculiarly important and particularly difficult for astronomical
study, i* ,
Because they are so bright, Super-Giant stars are the only kind that
are distinctly visible as separate stars in the distant—though not the
most distant— galaxies. Thus a study of them, of their conditions of
temperature and color, and of the kinds of chemicals of which they
are composed, is one way of finding out what universes are made of.
From them we may glean knowledge of the age, the development, the
history, the evolution, of stars and of worlds composed of millions—
and even billions— of stars.
Lucifer then, to be a bright and shining Morning Star, must either
have been one of these Super-Giants or a planet in our own solar
system like Mars and Jupiter. If it had been one of the Super-Giants
and collided with another Super-Giant, or with ourselves, the shock
would have been so great that the Earth would never have survived it.
The inference is plain, therefore, that Lucifer was one of the solar
bodies. And when we look about for its location, we are at once con­
fronted with the strongest confirmatory evidence that this was so.
The planets of our solar system are spaced in regular orbits out from
our sun, at increasing distances to give them free movement without
being disastrously affected by one another’s gravitational pulls. This
ratio in astronomy is known as Bode’s Law. That is until we reach
16
take a terrific leap. Far aw ay in the heavens is Jupiter.
Then^ efiejd orbit SpaCe betw een Mars and Jupiter in w hich
!yreis \oifld be found. Instead, all w e find in that orbitary space
r ^Planetoids, a smattering of little planets, the sm aller o f w hich
j6the Y ore than nine of our earthly m iles in diam eter. T his little
0f independent baby planets go deploying around the sun
r \ like Venus, Mercury, Earth, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn.
c Jjggtion arises, what made the Planetoids? N o less an authority
e Encyclopedia Brittannica gives us som e enlightening
J " rmation—
HE minor planets, com m only know n as asteroids or
planetoids, form a remarkable group of sm all planetary
bodies of which all the know n m embers but three m ove
between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. U ntil recently
they were all supposed to be contained within the region
just m entioned; but the discovery of one, which at peri­
helion comes far within the orbit of Mars, and of tw o others, which at
aphelion pass outside the orbit of Jupiter, show s that no well-defined
limit can be set to the zone containing them. Before the existence of
this group was known, the apparent vacancy in the region occupied
by it had excited remark and led to the belief that a planet w ould
eventually be found there. Towards the end of the 18th century the
conviction that such a planet existed w as so strong that an association
ofastronomers was formed to search for it.
Xhe first discovery of the looked-for planet was not, however, made by
any member of the association, but by Guiseppe Piazzi of Palermo.
On the 1st of January, 1801, he noted a small star in Taurus, which
two days later had changed its place, thus showing it to be a planet.
Shortly after PiazziV discovery the body was lost in the rays of the
sun and was not seen again until the following opposition in 1801 -
1802. The orbit was then computed by O. F. Gauss w ho found its
mean distance from the sun to correspond with Bode’s Law, thus giving
rise to the impression that the gap in the solar system was filled.
The planet received the name Ceres.
On the 28th of March, 1802, H. W . M. Olbers discovered a second
planet, which was found to m ove in an orbit a little larger than that of
Ceres but with a very large eccentricity and inclination. This received
the name of Pallas. The existence of two planets where only one was
j i j DH-iPr* to state his celebrated proposition that
» ' * < i T 'whlth J * T ” ■
‘•""•it
of internal convulsion, and * j
e
se
y
be made near the‘
common nodeof the two orbits to see w h e tl^
fragments of the group could be found.
Within the next few years two other planets were discovered, nal^
four No others were found for more than a generation. Thenonth
e
8th of December, 1845, a fifth, Astrea was discovered by K L
.
Hencke of Dreisen. The same observer added a sixth in 1847. T
w
o
more were found by J. L. Hinde of London, during the same year,
and from that time discovery has gone on at an increasing rate, until
the number now known is more than 600 and is growing at therate
of 30 or more, annually.
Among the distinctive features of this group, is their size. Noneexists
that approaches either Mercury or the moon in its dimensions. T
he
two largest, Ceres and Juno, present at opposition a visible disk cor­
responding to about 400 miles. The successively discovered oneshave,
in the general average, been smaller and smaller. Appearing onlyas
points of light, even in the most powerful telescopes, nothing likea
measuring of their size is possible. It can only be inferred from their
apparent magnitude that the diameters of those now known mayrange
from 15 or 20 miles to 300 or 400, the great majority being near the
lower limit.
Here are hundreds of little worlds, all bumbling and revolving around
one another, apparently not thrown out from any central sun like our
earth and Mars else they could not get their present peculiar orbitary
^notions. In the language of the times, how did they get that way?”
I anJwer in logic, as well as esoteric wisdom, seems to be that
they are the remnants of twin planets known to the ancients as Quain
and Habal, and giving rise of course, to the Cain and Abel nomencla-
L
U
'l °JTbB'b f’ and, the fratL
ricida{Mothers fables of all folklore and
Set
£ s;?P
i e
x V
ie
?
^ei^o^da^betweOT t|^000^andr?2t,000^M rIe”^SbaS '
omers and peoples of earth were paralVzed^fth b” ^ PMt’tbe astron'
“ •* “ h*•*!•»• J iE E S ?**
18
. . ^ad always kept these planets separate and in orbit
»
a
lP °rter, had been destroyed in the twinkling of an eye. A
jjateach blaze of glory was resulting. It was a glory, however,
filled to the marrow even as it attracted. Because it gradually
c
h
l. Lout to the common people that a vast fragment had been
^ t0 eg a8a result of that collision, that it had been precipitated into
^ th’s orbit and was approaching the earth at a fearful rate, and
into the earth in about three weeks* time!
HERE was, of course, no more conjecture about that ap­
proaching collision than there would have been among
astronomers of any age, who could compute any sort of
heavenly movements to the arc of a second.
Once there were three weeks of time on this earth when
the whole population of the globe knew that it was going
to be struck by a vast molten mass seething through the heavens at a
ghastly rate, with no escape possible for them, and no certainty as to
just what surface of the earth it was going to strike. Certain it was,
that whatever part of the earth it struck, all the cities and peoples in
the affected area were to be blotted from existence in one awful mo­
ment of furnace-like welding. Not only that, but there was no assur­
ance that the great molten mass rushing through space was not going
tototally destroy the earth and send it back into the molten state in
w
hichit had existed millions of years bygone, under the Water Canopy,
flImagine what terror must have reigned upon earth in those unthink­
able three weeks. Daily and nightly the fiery mass must have been
discerned plainer and brighter in the skies. It was certain death by
horrible fire for millions of persons, and as it came on and on, we
know that it assumed an elongated shape like a vast flaming dragon,
hurtling through space to consume the earth in celestial ravaging.
All business must have come to a standstill in those three weeks. The
temples and churches must have been crowded. Millions must have
attempted to make their peace with God. People must have gone
insane by tens of thousands. Law probably broke down. Looting and
ravishing must have been indulged in by those seeking some sort of
anesthesia from their inexorable fate. The mass was too vast to be
disinteerated by the earth’s envelope of air. There was nothing to do
but to wait and take it. Broadside!
And the earth did take it broadside.
19
Long before the morning of the last day dawned, the heat 0f i
coming dragon must have been so fearful that people mercif^L*
in their tracks.
But at last it struck.
It struck the earth not pointedly but laterally—it hit with a m\
roar that must have been heard far out in interstellar space, as f ^
the slightest trace of atmosphere could carry the sound vibration* *
It hit the revolving earth as a great strip of molten putty might hitahJ
adhere to the side of a boy’s spinning top. It knocked the earth Li5
a degree off its inclination, from 24 degrees to 23-1/2 degrees—
an(j
the earth has wobbled half a degree ever since. It wrapped itself
around what we call today the Western Hemisphere. Beginning jn
southern Manitoba and reaching down toward Mexico, it smothered
the great North American prairie sections, curved down across the
middle and southern Atlantic, and buried certain sections of the Medi
terranean Basin and Africa under its debris.
Most of the United States in the east, the Atlantic ocean bed from
Long Island across to Spain, most of southern Europe and Africa, are
today covered with a mysterious layer of cooled sediment called the
Drift. This sediment varies from 50 to 700 feet in depth.
W hat other can this have been, but that Fiery Monster from On High,
apostrophized today by the Chinese Dragon, shown with startling
clearness in the works of the Mound Builders in Adams County, Ohio,
where a picture representation of the catastrophe was executed in
raised embankments, taking the form of a gigantic serpent trying to
swallow an egg-like object that can only be the earth?
Back in the orbit between Mars and Jupiter was left a residue of little
revolving bodies that we recognize today as the Planetoids. And in
the hearts of surviving men and women of earth was burned the
unspeakable superstition of an angry God, a God of Wrath, who would
not send such an inhuman meteor from His celestial abode at all,
unless earthly mankind had displeased Him and needed such unbe­
lievable correction.
Of course the priests and theologians of every age were not slow to
endorse and encourage such an idea among the dazed remnants of
mankind, who after six months of the Great Drift’s cooling, ventured
out from the caves where they had taken refuge and beheld an earth
on which every living green thing had either perished or been burned
to charred refuse.
20
fit
AM perfectly aware that there are geologists who chal­
lenge this explanation of the Drift. They do not chal­
lenge it so much, as they proffer another explanation of
the Drift’s existence. They would have us believe that
the blanket of foreign sediment that wraps the middle
portion of the western hemisphere came from the melt-
j aC
iers and bergs of the last ice age.
S
ia _ 1
_____
there seems to be one flaw in their explanation. They have not
Counted satisfactorily to all scholars, for the fact that whereas the ice
Ls overran the whole top part of the earth and blanketed northern
E
uropeand northern Asia, as well as Alaska and Canada, with a gar­
m
ent of frozen materials, only North America, southern Europe and
Africa show the disintegrated and deposited freight of gravels, min­
erals,and precious stones.
JftheDrift is a loose deposit from glaciers and icebergs that attained a
thickness of 500 to 700 feet in many places, easily measurable today,
w
hydid this phenomenon only occur in North America, insofar as the
arcticand north temperate zones were affected, and how do precisely
thesame residue and droppings occur in what is now tropical Africa—
thatnever had a glacier that modern man is aware of?
Furthermore, how does it happen that the Drift s materials do not seem
tobe natural concretions of time, packed down in natural layers of
sediment, but compose a vast blanket of the same identical stuffs laid
with a wholesale hand over such an uneven and unequal portion of
theglobe’s surface?
Howdoes it happen that when we dig down anywhere today beneath
the Drift we find the otherwise exposed rocks glazed to the surface
smoothness of pottery that has been baked in a kiln by stupendous
heat, that lower rocks do not show any such application of heat, and
that the Drift itself is a fused mass of conglomerate rock ?
How does it happen that on digging below the Drift in such places as
Long Island, N. Y., specimens of coins, metal work and pottery have
been brought to the surface resembling no ancient art known to
S r fir fU .th
a
*pract!caiiy au tHe f°ik,ore °f t
H
eN°rth
American Indians contains an account of a time when a fiery monster
appeared out of the skies and burned up the earth until assuaged by
thecooling waters of mercy”)
21
How does it happen that in Greek mythology we find the l
Phaeton who stole the Sun Chariot and drove it madly acr^0
*
heavens, burning the earth-world frightfully in consequence^
How does happen that in Christian mythology there comes A
to us the sacred story of how Michael and his angels warredwifiT?
angels of Lucifer, and vanquished him, and threw him out t
heaven? 0
Hoyv does it happen that Isaiah apostrophizes Lucifer, the bright
of morning, and that there is now no Lucifer in the skies, inthem
om
.
ing or at any other time?
How does it happen that in the jumbled chronology of the H
ebrew
Scriptures, we have minutely described the forthcoming fierydestruc­
tion of Sodom and Gomorrah and the angel of the Lord talkingw
ith
Abraham about it—and the terrible descent of fire upon the cityand
its consequent erasement?
Jdow does it happen that the very word Pyramid itself means Fire
Death” ? Every school boy knows that “pyr” is the root word in
Greek for fire. Our modern words pyre or blazing pile, and pyro­
technics, or fireworks, come from it. Comparatively few people
know, however, that “mid” means death in a dozen languages, ancient
and modern. The term “to die” in Chinese is “mut. The term to
die” in ancient Chaldean was “mit.” Down through the ages thesam
e
word has come, to appear in the Norman as “morte, to find finished
form in our English “murd”—or “murder.”
The most illiterate layman can easily discern that the term pyr-a-mid
means Fire Death, Fiery Death, or Death by Fire. How could a
structure of stones like a four-sided cone acquire such a designation
unless it was a monument to some sort of Death by Fire? And what
sort of Death by Fire could be so universal, from Manitoba to India, as
a heavenly catastrophe that precipitated a great blazing mass of ma­
terial through the skies and destroyed the civilization of an entire
hemisphere of the earth planet?
But our wonders and our proofs do not end here. 1 shall continue
presenting them as we investigate Noah’s Deluge and the Egyptian
settlements after Atlantis had begun to decline.
How does it happen, however, that the ruins of the great pyramid of
Cholula in Mexico, containing all of the astronomical calculations of
that early day—even as the great Pyramid in Egypt contain all the
astronomical calculations of a later day—are oriented to mark a true 24
22
\
<
O
f
k
u
f t
•
ndination of the earth, while the Great Pyramid in Egypt, built
_jate, is oriented to correct a variation of one-half a degree,
rks a 23-1/ 2-degree inclination?
r icin't this be circumstantial evidence enough to stand in any law
^rtthat the Great Pyramid of Cholula contained all the astronomical
of the world before the heavenly catastrophe, and that the
pyramid of Gizah was erected to astronomical wis-
, a t fV
IO
UU
U Ui V
IM
A
1I W
03 ClCblCU 1U tTUC Up
^I fora planet that had altered its inclination after that catastrophe?
I The Pyramid of Cholula, so little known or visited because it was
j 0
tbuilt of imperishable stone like its successor in Egypt, is one of the
greatest constructions ever undertaken by human hands. It is even
I it®rl,ined condition, 160 feet high, 1400 feet at the base, and
I(0Y
ers45 acres. We have only to remember that the Egyptian Pyra­
m
idcovers but 10 square acres, to form some conception of the magni­
tu
d
eof this American structure. Incidentally, we shall come back to
faspyramid of Cholula when we are called to consider exactly what
! th
eorigin was of the Bible’s Tower-Of-Babel fable.
j Strange indeed is it that the legends of the Old World which underlie
I Genesis, and were used by Milton in ’’Paradise Lost,” appear in the
I Mexican legends of a war of angels in heaven and the fall of Zoutem-
I queand his other rebellious spirits. Look carefully too, at that word
Zoutemque. In the Arabic we find the same word spelled and pro­
nounced Soutem. Is it much of a verbal caper to pass to the modern
pronouncement of Satan out of Soutem?
23
TUPENDOUS, and not a little awesome, j* a
dence which piles up from those times before the
Flood, attesting this mighty catastrophe and its eff ^
hum an psychology. Men, going about their pe^?n
labors on earth, thinking of Amen-Ra the Sun God U
beneficent Being who could not deal otherwise thankji
and providentially with His people, had suddenly undergone a demo/
stration of interplanetary Might that proceeded to shock them inboth
incarnate and discarnate states for ten thousand generations. AG
od
of W rath, a God capable of anger and terrific chastisement, had sud­
denly scourged an earth which had not seemed, up until then, tot*.
deserving of such scourging. It might well pay humankind never to
forget this “Fall of Lucifer,*’ the Bright and Shining Morning Star.
And men did not forget it.- They have not forgotten it to the present.
Their priests and theologians, if none else, have not permitted them
to forget it. And so down from the past in the racial memory have
come the adjurations of the priests of the Atlantean Baal, transferring
to the Egyptians their theological psychologies of the Creators
“wrath,** inoculating the early Hebrews with the same pernicious doc­
trine, giving it to the Chaldean, Babylonian, Assyrian and Persian.
Finally they incorporated it wholesale in the baptized paganism that
became Christianity.
All because of an interstellar geological process which brought two
planets together!
Now none of this is conjecture. Babylonian tablets have been dis­
covered in recent years corroborating this heavenly holocaust in
specific reports and descriptions. And equally staggering psychometric
experiments have been made—and I have assisted in some of them—
in which persons have been “sent back’’to those times in their prenatal
memories of former lives on earth and have recounted in horror-
stricken tones what they have “seen** in their Eternal Minds. Thou­
sands of people are again alive today who passed through, were victims
of, or escaped, that stupendous ordeal. 1shall describe some of these
in our succeeding lectures.
Many of them are connected with the important question as to Why
Atlantis was Allowed to Perish—perish, that is, completely, for it is
certain that portions of Atlantis must have suffered from the Fiery
Monster from On High. And so 1 relegate them to our ensuing
chapters. jfcj*
24
