{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n15_our_proofs_atlantis_existed.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N15 Our Proofs Atlantis Existed","mylang":"de"}
Our Proofspha^!:
A tlantis Existed
Our Proofs That
Atlantis Existed
B E I N G T H E F I F T E E N T H O F
The G
a
la
h
a
d
.Lectures
HE G ALAH AD LECTU RES constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric History of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first forms of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantean and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer of 19 32 and have been recorded
and preserved in this form for students of'the Foundation Fel-
loivship. C The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of Metaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in Mortality and for accurate
knowledge o f the soul's enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth.
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BY PELLEY
PUBLISHERS OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA i f POST OFFICE BOX 2630
SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE LIBERATION
SCRIPTS i f ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR ONE
HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE IN­
STRUCTION TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY I f
Our Proofs That Atlantis Existed
THE FIFTEENTH LECTURE
LL THE EVIDENCE tending to establish the
existence of both Lemuria and Atlantis pro­
ceeds from a period so remote that the
geologist, the archaeologist and the eth­
nologist make the pardonable error of con­
fusing these civilizations and cultures with
each other. This is illustrated by the material
contained in two volumes by Churchward
that have recently found popularity: The
Lost Continent of Mu and The Children of
Mu. Churchward writes for an audience
w
hoseignorance regarding these ancient matters is abysmal. To stu­
dentswho have some knowledge of the existence of both Lemuria and
Atlantis, either from investigation or by lifted memories of times when
theydwelt in other bodies as human units in those cultures, his testi­
m
ony discloses how lamentably he has confused them. Both of his
w
orksappear puerile and superficial beside such a sweepingly compre­
hensive treatment as Ignatius Donnelly has given Atlantis. And yet
evenDonnelly, in his scholarly zeal to prove the existence of Atlantis,
hascommitted another type of error and ignored the existence of Le­
m
uria in toto. Donnelly would make Atlantis out as the mother
continent from which came all races and cultures of the present.
Theenthusiasm of these men, each trying to attest convincingly to the
existence of the particular continent in which he is more interested,
has resulted in a mass of evidence, however, that should not be
ignored. It does not call for denial. It calls rather for sorting out and
properlyclassifying it as to continents and periods.
3
JAN 3 1'41
W hat the layman does not understand is that in a certain period Le
muria and Atlantis were doubtless contemporaneous. That is to say
Lemuria was still in existence during a sequence in earthly history
when Atlantis came into her full flower and had received colony after
colony from the true mother continent located in what are now the
watery wastes of the south Pacific.
Apparently the reason why we do not hear more about Lemuria even
in folklore persisting from those far-off days, is that the destruction
and disappearance from the world’s stage of the south Pacific continent
was not so spectacular or tragic as the disaster that overwhelmed At­
lantis in comparatively recent times. We are led to believe that
Lemuria sank slowly by the process that is now recognized as gradual
inundation, whereas a stupendous submarine cataclysm carried At­
lantis out of sight in one terrible day and night. Because this was so,
the people of Lemuria, generally speaking, had both time and oppor­
tunity to transplant their culture elsewhere and make provision for the
gigantic changes which the gradual submergence of the Lemurian
continent would mean to civilization as it then existed.
And we know that they did transplant their culture. They trans­
planted it both east and west. Vast hordes of people seem to have
migrated westward, discovered the continent of Asia, populated Cam­
bodia and Burma, pushed up into India and Tibet, and laid the basis
for that racial development which was to come down into historic
times as Chinese. They likewise crossed to the East Coast of Africa
and penetrated to the district now recognized as the source of the Nile.
W e find them introducing Negroes into Africa apparently by this
route, sending other Negroid peoples up into what are now the Philip­
pines, and distributing w hat are called the Oriental or Mongoloid peo­
ples throughout Asia generally. There are indications that in their
colonization of Africa, those who had penetrated to the headwaters
of the Nile came into conflict with the Atlantean peoples who had mi­
grated from eastern Atlantis into the Mediterranean basin and estab­
lished themselves in and around the delta of the Nile. These two Toot
races, from opposite sides of the earth, came into contact east of the
Sudan, with a result that supplies m any solutions to the mysteries of
ethnology in connection with the entire Mesopotamian and Caspian
areas. S& r
4
HAT the true southern Chinese as we meet them today
are the posterity of these ancient Lemurians, is attested
by the nature of their language and its similarity to the
Lemurian tongue as recovered by those who have gone
into the profounder phases of cosmic existence. This
question of language, or philology, however, I want to
jgavefor a separate lecture. C
J The Lemurians were uniformly a big
jjodied, red-skinned people, not unlike our North American Indians in
stature and from whom indeed some of our North American Indian
tribes are descended. They seem to have been a people of high
cranial development, particularly in their foreheads or forebrains.
Their skulls went up from the nose bridge almost vertically and yet
were spherical, or brachycephalic in form, whereas the later Atlanteans
were dolichocephalic, or long-skulled, with foreheads so receding as to
be classed as Flatheads.
Itisthe logical conclusion of those who have given much study to the
subject, that the attempt by certain savage Indian tribes to flatten the
foreheadsof their infants by carrying those babies about in their early
form
ative periods with their skulls pressed down under an inverted
V-shapedboard, was nothing but an attempt to distinguish Atlanteans
fromLemurians in an accentuated manner. Over countless genera­
tions, however, the basic reason for the practice was lost and they con­
tinuedto so flatten the heads of their children from what seemed to be
abarbarous custom. We shall refer to this again in later consideration
ofAtlantean culture and what the world of today has inherited un­
w
ittinglyfrom it.
B
ythe same token that the Lemurians were high-headed in frontal
cranial development, they were also small-jawed. It seems to be a
biological fact that Nature enhances physiognomical attributes accord­
ingasaspecies has use for them toward survival in a pristine condition.
W
edonot have to go further back than Darwin to get evidence that
thisisso. A race with a high degree of cultural intelligence becomes
weak-jawed in the exact ratio that it has no use for prognathic jawv
bones for the rending or crunching of uncooked foods. A race far
advancedon the course of civilization will dispense with this aboriginal
phenomenon and become developed above the nose instead of
under it. jjr t?
N
owthousands of people make the error of wanting the Lemurian and
Atlantean civilizations reconstructed for them in a manner that pic­
turesthose civilizations as weird, mystic, or analogous to beings from
5
another planet. They resent the implication that people of that far
off day were scarcely any different in thoughts, habits, customs and
manners of living, than they are today. They want a necromantic,
fantastic race drawn for them, that lived differently, talked differently,
clothed itself differently, and if they cannot have it recreated for them
,
they decide that the scholar is a trickster or a fictionist. Tell themthat
in Lemuria lived practically all of the races that inhabit the earth today,
Negroes, Semites, Mongols, and even the white people that were later
to become the true Atlanteans, that their houses or their dress was not
much different from today, and they will show acute disappointment.
Tell them that they were those same Lemurians, living in that early
period, and they will say “Prove it!” Yet when one starts speaking
the language of that ancient time, they will listen dull-eyed, or they
will remark on its similarity to the modern Chinese and accept it
as merely freakish entertainment.
HAVE known several people who spoke the Lemurian
tongue, and on occasion have spoken it myself. It is
a tongue that has practically perished from the earth,
and yet again and again this thing has happened:
Lapsing into it aloud to get greater fluency, myself, for
the expression of an idea to myself, in the presence of
others, I have seen the most prosaic persons show a quick gleam of
interest, ask me what tongue I was speaking, scowl for a time as though
striving to remember something vague in the memory, and then come
back at me with a quite comprehensible statement in reply, in the
Lemurian tongue, yet wholly unable to account for their knowledge
of it. ±*
I did this interesting thing one evening: I had for spiritual therapeutic
treatment the case of a young man who was frightfully distressed over
his relationships with a certain group in his present life. He wanted
to know why their mutual obligations were what they were. I sent
him back into his memory, in cataleptic slumber. I instructed him to
recall his particular former life or lives in which he had been in propin­
quity with the same persons and had experiences with them that had
resulted in the social complications of the present. He seemed to do
so without much difficulty. But while he was deep in the cataleptic
sleep, I began very softly talking to him in Lemurian. I spoke to him
in Lemurian, beginning with the frailest of whispers and gradually
increasing the volume of my voice until a dozen witnesses heard what
^as saying, though unable to interpret it in English. On coming
L,mthat trance state, the young man repeated in English all that I
j j uttered to him in Lemurian and was prepared to swear that I had
ooken to him in English. In other words, he remembered the lan-
uageP®*fecdy in his subconscious mind and made his own transfe­
rs , hut could not bring it all up into his present “English” con-
^jousness. How could he have understood me as he did, unless he
' once lived as a Lemurian and carried the meaning of the tongue
jjjhis Eternal Mind?
O
nenight, when conversing in the Lemurian tongue with certain souls
inhigherdimensions of time and space who had not reincarnated since
jh
edisappearance of their motherland, I asked them the age of the
language which we were then using. They replied, “Approximately
|75,000years”!
M
anypeople who recall the Atlantean tongue and speak it fluently,
haveremarked on my queer enunciation of the language. They say
m
yaccent seemed archaic to them. It was not unlike an Englishman
o
rAmericanof today, hearing a person of the Chaucer period address
h
iminthe early Anglo-Saxon tongue. He might understand the drift
o
fthe conversation but be puzzled by the pronunciation of certain
w
ordsand phrases.
INASMUCH as the customs, habits and ethics of the two
peoples were practically contemporaneous, at least in
those periods in which we are most interested, it seems
expedient to consider the Lemurian and Atlantean cul­
tures as one, or at least to alliterate them as one in order
to arrive at the origins of many of our religious and
so
cialheritages of the present. Bear in mind that this is the entire mo­
tiv
eandmotif for what we are attempting in this instruction. It is not
o
u
rintention toenter deeply into a study of these perished civilizations
purelyfor the erudition that might accrue to ourselves. We are pur­
suinga different objective. I could easily elaborate these writings
fourfold, and not begin to exhaust our material. I must curtail and
condense in order to paint in only the background for modern theo­
lo
g
icalandethical culture as we know it. We are in a mess of skepti­
cism
, unbelief and unrest today, because humanity has not been gen­
erallyintroducedto the true fundmentals accounting for what it terms
itsculture. Legend, folklore, superstition and archaeological fact are
a
llm
ixedup together in the same stew of pottage, with precious little
7
spiritual nutriment accruing from the mixture. We are on the trailof I
"where things that we imagine we believe came from,” and whenl I
we get many of the silly childish notions that we are asked to actem I
as profoundest celestial fact. With these determined, we can get I
clear concept of what is true, eternal, and spiritually dependable.
So, without the slightest desire to skip over one of the most vital
cycles in the world’s history, I am forced to speak of the Lemurian
and Atlantean cultures as one, or the one as the outgrowth of the
other, without altering the essence of either, for our present purposes.
What we need to know about Lemuria in the present instance isthat
it apparently existed in the south Pacific from Australia to Easter
Island, and from the Marquesian Group to the Hawaiis, and that it
sent great colonization projects both east and west, those on the w
est
going to Africa and Asia, and those on the east going to South
America, Maya in Central America, across to Atlantis, and thence to I
Europe, the Mediterranean basin, Egypt, and Old Caspia. If you
care to read Churchward s books by all means do so. They can be
procured in any corner bookstore. But read them with certain reserva­
tions until you are fully conversant with the role played by Atlantis
in the pre-Egyptian period.
HAVE already referred to Easter Island and the gigantic I
monoliths and statues still existent thereon. Our hy­
pothesis has it that Easter Island was the New York City
of its day, insofar as it was an eastern seaport for the
dispatching of its shipping to the east. Of course it
doubtless covered a far vaster territory than we find un­
submerged as Easter Island of the present. But that is beside the point.
What we wish to determine is reasonable proof that there was a Le­
muria, that it did send shipping eastward to South and Central
America, that there was an Atlantis as a port of call in the Atlantic,
and that the peoples from the two continents of Lemuria and Atlantis
were the forerunners of those who peopled the Old World as we have
it described for us in accepted histories of today. And we look for this
proof, to Central and South America, particularly the latter in the
vicinity of Lake Titicaca. A moment’s divergence, here, however.
When those Lemurians and Atlanteans pushed out their colonization
schemes time after time, and in cycle after cycle of terrain reformation,
it was literally necessary to re-explore the earth. Atlantis, I say, is the I
country and culture in which we are the more interested, because it
8
s nearer to us and is nearer to us, both in point of time and of
r-nificance. Our culture of the present moment is Atlantean more
•anit is Greek or Roman. Before we study much further we shall
n
(jerstand why this is so. But we find that despite the fact that we
gjereliving the denouement of Atlantean culture, and will eventually
rtjry it far higher than even the Atlanteans carried it, nevertheless
thereareevidences of cultures that seem to have come in between the
civilization of Lemuria in her prime, and the civilization of Atlantis
asw
eshall attempt to reconstruct it.
tyefindthese evidences in both North and South America to the east
o
fLemuria, and we find them in both Asia and Africa to the west of
Lemuria, particularly in that country known as Pali, or the section of
th
eplanet nowdistinguished by the Java straits. As those Pali people
pushed constantly westward down around into Persia and Meso­
potamia, they finally found themselves confronted by the Atlanteans
who made up that great lost civilization of Ad, whose peoples we find
referredtovaguely as the Adites. These Adites, whom we shall study
intheirproper places, seem to have been the forerunners of the ancient
Egyptians, giving the latter their remarkable culture with which
Egyptianhistory opens, and an equally remarkable line of rulers, the
earlyEgyptian kings, who present such a mystery to historians. An
interesting thing to note in this connection, is the fact that at about
th
eplacewhere these ancient Pali peoples were halted in their western
m
igratorypushes, by these Atlantean Adites, the land was known as
th
ePaliLand, or Pali-Stan. The designation endures to this day. We
tracethe derivation of Palestine to Pali-Stan, first spelled Pale-Stan,
thenPalestan, then Palestane, then the modern Palestine.
D
oyourecognize here, likewise, the significance of this particular ter­
ritoryinconnection with the Armageddon so frequently referred to in
Revelations? The races pushing eastward from Atlantis, met the
racesthat had long since established themselves out of the western
d
riv
efromLemuria. Is it any wonder that, coming to grips where
an
dastheydid, the territory should early have been designated as the
Battleground of the Lord?
T
h
eimportant thing to remember is, that Lemuria pushed both east­
w
ardand westward in her colonization schemes. She peopled the
O
rientas we know it today. But she likewise was the great culture­
determ
ining factor in the peopling of Central and South America.
C
entralandSouth America were no farther distant from Lemuria, than
A
siaonthe west, and would have felt the cultural effects from such
9
invasions, contemporaneously with Pali, Cambodia, India and Burma
€]f Throughout South America, and up through what is now Yucatan
New Mexico, the Mississippi watershed, away up into the Lake
Superior copper region, to say nothing of Indiana and Ohio—after
Lake Agassiz had been drained— were settlements and cities far, far
in advance, culturally, over our so-called civilization of the present.
Does this contention seem fantastic and revolutionary? We shall see
that it is not, and that our ignorant, censored, inhibited “historians’1
are cheating us of a vast wealth of detail about that particular cycle in
the earth’s development which antedated the Atlantean cataclysm.
E hear poems recited about Lo, the Poor Indian, and think
of him as the original American just emerging fromthe
same savage or barbarous state that our white ancestors
passed through at the time that the bison pictures were
painted on the Laurentian Caves of southern France.
But Lo, the Poor Indian was by no means the original
American. In his various tribes, as we now discern them, he con­
stituted units of that great Lemurian colonization era when the two
Americas surpassed in cultural and ethical attainments anything
achieved by Egypt in her prime. When the great mother continent
Lemuria was submerged gradually, followed by the catastrophe that
took down Atlantis, he was left isolated and abandoned on the conti­
nent that ran north and south between. He had to get along as best
he could, in the wake of the titanic tidal wave that toppled over his
cities and his cultural life. With the whole civilized world destroyed
about him, he went back to living in tents, wresting a livelihood from
Nature as he found it, shattered and fear-struck, exactly as we would
be obliged to do if a similar cataclysm engulfed us tomorrow, making
a sea-girt island of this mountain State of North Carolina. With the
five continents sunken beneath the waves, with North American
civilization wiped out, our problem would be one of hunting animals
for fur and food, and letting inventions and scientific achievements
become a matter of interest to our progeny.
Anthropologists and ethnologists often comment on the similarity be­
tween the Asiatic Mongols and the North American Sioux. Denying
that Lemuria ever existed, they strive to explain it by declaring that
the North American Indian must have originated in Asia and migrated
across Bering Straits or the Aleutian land-bridge, and come gradually
down across British Columbia into what is now the United States, and
0ushedon down toward Central and South America. The fallacy of
u
C
helemental reasoning lies in the fact that no such migrations have
cver been of record without leaving cultural vestiges or philological
traces enroute.
Such migrating peoples do not keep going like an invading army, or a
flying football wedge. The process is gradual, over vast periods of
tim
e. One set of people pushes another along. But always families,
tribes,or outstanding individuals, are scattered along the way, to mark
theinfiltration of new peoples with blood strains, or customs or folk­
lore,showingthat the new peoples have not always possessed the land,
(jSo it was, truthfully, in India, until a comparatively recent date.
B
utdownfrom Alaska and British Columbia we find no such vestigial
tracesofthose Indian tribes now peopling Central and South America.
C
ountless thousands of Indians making up the tribes in the Canadian
N
orthw
est are not Mongols and bear no resemblance to Mongols. In­
deed,manyof them are ethnologically white people. White people! For
instance, the Menominees. Where in all Asia are there white people
tocompare with the Menominees? That poor old Aleutian land-
bridge! According to the modern ethnologist, at one time it must
havesustained a greater volume of traffic than West 42nd Street, New
Y
orkCity. And yet it shows scarcely a trace of such migrations in the
way ofweapons, cooking utensils, or other accoutrements of a people’s
culture. And never within the knowledge of historic man has it had
onetonless of ice and snow than is disclosed on its well-nigh impass­
ab
learctic wastes of the present. Anything to maintain the theory
thatthe continents have never been different than man beholds them
atpresent! If there are Sioux Indians in North America who resemble
th
eChinese Mongols, they must have come over the existent land-
bridge,andthat is all there is to it!
B
u
tthe paradoxes and discrepancies do not stop there. By denying
th
eexistence of Lemuria and Atlantis, we find them bobbing up all
ov
ertherest of the earth. When we compare the civilization of Egypt
initsprimewith that of Maya, or Yucatan, or that of Phoenicia with
thatofCambodia, we are struck by similarities that by no manner of
im
aginationcan be classed as coincidence. The same racial traits, the
sam
esocial customs, the same religious practices, come to light, as
w
eshall see in reconstructing the Atlantean culture. Even the theo­
lo
g
icalfolklore is almost identical.
II
H E ancestors of the Quichuas or Kechuas, who con*;
tilted ^the outstanding Lemurian colonists in South
A m erica, say that Divinity parted the seas for the*
passage to their early home, as the Red Sea was *up.
posed to have been parted for the passage of the Children
of Israel. T he story of Samson is paralleled in the h*.
tory of Z ipanka; conquered by his enemies, he pulled down the build,
ing in which he was held captive and killed his captors.
The Quichuas seem to have been originally a fair-skinned race with
blue eyes and light and even auburn hair. They had regular features,
large heads, and large bodies. Their descendants are to this day an
olive-skinned people, m uch lighter in color than the Indian tribes sub
jugated by them. They w ere a great race. Peru, as it was known to
the Spaniards, held very m uch the same relation to the ancient Qui-
chuan civilization as England in the sixteenth century held to the
civilization of the Caesars. The Incas were simply an offshoot people
who, descending from the m ountains, subdued the rude races of the
seacoast and imposed their ancient civilization upon them.
The Quichuan nation extended at one time over a region of country
more than two thousand miles long. This whole region, when the
Spaniards arrived, was a populous and prosperous empire, complete
in its civil organization, supported by an efficient system of industry,
and presenting a notable developm ent of the more important arts of
civilized life. Read Baldwin’s A ncient Am erica if you want detailed
accounts of the achievm ents of this civilization.
The companions of Pizarro found everyw here the evidences of a civili­
zation of great antiquity. Cieca de Leon mentions great edifices
that were already in ruins at Tiahuanaca, an artificial hill raised on a
groundwork of stone, and two stone idols, apparently made by skilful
artificers, ten or twelve feet high and clothed in long robes. “In this
place also,** says de Leon, “there are stones so large and so overgrown
that our wonder is excited, it being incom prehensible that the power
of man could have placed them w here we see them . They are vari­
ously wrought and some of them , having the form of men, must have
been idols. Near the walls are m any caves and excavations under the
earth; but in another place, farther west, are other and greater monu­
ments, such as large gateways w ith hinges, platform s and porches,
each made of a single stone. It surprised me to see some of these
enormous gateways, made of great masses of stone, some of which
were thirty feet long, fifteen high, and six thick ’*
12
T
hecapital of the Chimus of northern Peru at Gran-Chimu was con-
ueredby the Incas after a long and bloody struggle, and the capital
given up to barbarous ravages and spoliation. “But its remains
gxist today, the marvel of the southern continent, covering not less
thantwenty square miles.*' Tombs, temples and palaces arise on every
hand, ruined but still traceable. Immense pyramidal structures, some
ofthemsix hundred feet square; vast areas shut in by massive walls,
eachcontaining its water-tank, its shops, municipal edifices, and the
dw
ellingsof its inhabitants, and each a branch of a larger organization;
prisons, furnaces for smelting metals, and almost every concomitant
ofcivilization, existed in the ancient Chimu capital. One of the great
pyram
idscalled the Temple of the Sun is 812 feet long, by 470 wide,
and 150 feet high. These vast structures have been ruined for cen­
turies, but still the work of excavation is going on.
O
neof the centers of the ancient Quichuan civilization was around
L
akeTiticaca. The buildings, still existent, marking its site, were all
constructed of hewn stone and had doors and windows with posts,
sills, and thresholds of stone. At Cuelap, in northern Peru, remark­
ab
leruinshave been found consisting of a wall of wrought stone 3600
feetlong, 560 broad, and 130 high, constituting a solid mass with a
lev
el summit. On this mass was another, 600 feet long, 300 broad,
and 150 high, making an aggregate height of 300 feet. In it were
room
sand cells that were used as tombs.
13
p W silly to contend that such structures could possibly
have been erected by the forebears of North Am
erican
Indians like the Sioux, a nomad people, who pushed
across the Aleutian land-bridge from Asia, when thereis
nothing in Asia to compare with them. Would it not
| have been a freak of nature for such a people to haveb
e­
come such masons after arriving and settling down in the new terri­
tory, when both ancestors and progeny still exhibit all the tendencies
of strictly nomadic and non-technical existence?
The answer must be, rather, that these ancient Quichuas were naught
but the Lemurian colonists who pushed eastward from Easter Island
as their embarkation point, since on Easter Island today we findsim
ilar
skill and technique exhibited in imperishable stone.
Very ancient ruins, showing remains of large and remarkable edifices,
were found near Haumanga and also described by de Leon. T
he
native tradition said this city was built by bearded white men w
ho
came there long before the time of the Incas and established a settle­
ment. i ? i ?
These Lemurian colonists made use of aqueducts which they built
with notable skill, using hewn stones and cement and making them
very substantial. One extended over 450 miles across sierras and over
rivers. Think of a stone aqueduct reaching from New York City to
the State of North Carolina!
Their public roads were equally remarkable, being built on masonry.
One of these roads ran along the mountains through the whole length
of the empire from Quito to Chile. Another, starting from this at
Cuzco, Peru, went down to the coast and extended northward to the
equator. These roads were from 20 to 25 feet wide, were m
ac­
adamized with pulverized stone mixed with lime and bituminous
cement and were guarded by strong walls, more than a fathom in
thickness! In many places these roads were cut for leagues through
solid rock. Great ravines were filled up with masonry. Rivers were
crossed by suspension bridges, used here ages before their introduction
into Europe.
Prof. Baldwin says: “The builders of our Pacific Railroad with their
superior engineering skill and mechanical appliances, might reason­
ably shrink from the cost and the difficulties of such a work as this
Extending from one degree north of Quito to Cuzco, and from Cuzco
to Chile, it was quite as long as the two Pacific railroads and its wild
route among the mountains was far more difficult ”
14
nflthesegreat roads, caravansaries were established for the accom-
od*ti°n travelers. And these roads were ancient in the time of
Incas. They were the work of reddish-white, auburn-haired,
men. They were the work of men who first stopped over and
\jjzed South America in and around the Amazon basin before push-
? onto the conquest and civilizing of Atlantis. They present for
iw
our
baffled gaze today a true attestment of the degree of civilization
^hich our Lemurian forebears had attained. Lemuria as a conti­
nent
ithaslong since been completely submerged in the Ocean. But in
landof their colonization the handiwork of the Lemurians persists
confront us and point irrefutably to their highly evolved culture, a
culturewhichwe have yet to approximate according to the confessions
0
(ourown engineers.
out they excelled in other things than engineering skill. Their works
la cotton and wool exceeded anything known in Europe. They had
carried irrigation, agriculture and the cutting of gems, to a point
equaling anything that has been given us by the Old World. Their
accum
ulations of the precious metals exceeded anything previously
known in the history of the earth. In the course of twenty-five years
after the Conquest, the Spaniards sent to Spain more than eight
hundred millions of dollars’ worth of gold, nearly all of it taken from
the Quichuas as booty. In one of their palaces they had an artificial
garden, the soil of which was made of pieces of fine gold, and
this w
asartificially planted with different kinds of maize, which were
of gold, their stems, leaves and ears. Besides this, they had more than
tw
enty sheep with their lambs, attended by shepherds, all made of
g
o
ld
. In a description of one lot of golden articles, sent to Spain in
1
5
3
4by Pizarro, there is mention of “four llamas, ten statues of
women of full size, and a cistern of gold, so curious that it excited the
wonder of all.”
15
U T th at these w ere truly the ancient Lemurians, wL
later w ent farther east and colonized Atlantia with
sim ilar culture, is further attested by the masonry wort
in and around Lake Titicaca itself. This lake is now
raised nearly 13,000 feet in the air by the elevation of
the A ndes M ountains. But at the time that Lemuria
and A tlantis m ust have been in communication, it was not only on
sea level, but it m ust have constituted a portion of the great Ama­
zonian Sea that geologists tell us once covered the whole of the present
Brazil. £&
H ere on the w est shore of Titicaca can be seen the ruins of old canal
docks and quays, still bearing the scraping marks of great vessels that
m ust have gone through those canals and locks precisely as great
vessels go through our Panam a Canal at the present time. The wear­
ing aw ay or gouging of the stones, as at present indicated, shows that
these ancient Lem urians or their colonists the Quichuas must have had
ships quite as pow erful and massive as anything engaged in world
shipping at the present m om ent.
C et the true significance of this. Men do not erect canal locks whose
stones run to 800 tons, m erely to let a fleet of birchbark canoes pass
through from ocean to ocean. Mere savages, or barbarians, could not
have built vessels of sufficient draught and- weight to so gouge those
stones as they slid through from Pacific to Atlantic Ocean. W
orld
shipping, propelled by either steam , electricity, or the vrille ray, must
have been quite equal to anything we have in the world’s harbors
here in 1939. Just as we can determ ine the size of a vessel from the
dry dock built to accommodate it, so these old canal locks bear mute
testim ony of an age of world culture that is a sealed book to the
childish historian who thinks that evolution worked in a straight line
from the fen savages to the erudite Egyptian who became the Greek
and Rom an from the standpoint of culture.
By a similar fitting together of evidence into a mosaic, we arrive at the
accredited existence of Atlantis. But here we must lean heavily on
geology, physiology, and philology.
16
|N THE first place, we know that a great continent, called
by us Atlantis, must have existed, not only because we
begin to confront the parallelisms to Lemurian and Qui-
chuan culture in the countries around the Mediterranean
Sea. We know it from oceanography, or land sound­
ings deep beneath the waves of the Atlantic. iSf
(JA
sDonnelly says, suppose we were to find in mid-Atlantic, in front
0
fthe Mediterranean, in the neighborhood of the Azores, the remains
0f an immense island sunk beneath the sea, one thousand miles in
w
idth and two to three thousand miles long, would it not go far to
confirmthe statement of Plato that “beyond the strait where you place
thePillars of Hercules there was an island larger than Asia (Minor)
andLybia combined,” called Atlantis? And suppose we found that
the Azores were the mountain peaks of this submerged island and
w
eretorn and rent by tremendous volcanic convulsions, while around
themdescending into the sea were found great strata of lava, and the
w
hole face of the sunken land was covered for thousands of miles
w
ithvolcanic debris. Would we not be obliged to confess that these
facts furnished strong corroborative proofs of the truth of Plato’s
statem
ent, that “in one day and in one fatal night there came mighty
earthquakes and inundations which ingulfed that mighty people. A t­
lantis disappeared beneath the sea; and then that sea became inac­
cessibleon account of the quantity of mud which the ingulfed island
leftinits place”?
A
llthese things recent investigation has proved conclusively. Deep-
seasoundings have been made by ships of different nations: The
U
nitedStates ship “Dolphin,” the German frigate “Gazelle,” and the
B
ritishships “Hydra,” “Porcupine” and “Challenger.” These ships
m
appedout the bottom of the Atlantic, and the result is the disclosing
o
fagreat elevation, reaching from a point on the coast of the British
Islands southward to the coast of South America, at Cape Orange,
thencesoutheastward to the coast of Africa and thence southward to
T
ristan da Cunha. It rises about 9,000 feet above the Atlantic’s
depthsaround it, and in the Azores, St. Paul’s Rocks, Ascension and
T
ristandaCunha it reaches the surface of the ocean.
E
videncethat this elevation was once dry land, is found in the fact that
th
einequalities, the mountains and valleys of its surface, could never
h
av
ebeen produced in accordance with any laws for the deposition of
sedim
ent, nor by submarine elevation; but on the contrary must have
^encarved by agencies acting above the water level.
17
In this solemn geological assertion, attested by such reputable journals
as the Scientific American, we have the irrefutable answer to those
callow and irresponsible skeptics who often exclaim facetiously from
the depths of their ignorance, “What actual proof have we that At­
lantis isn’t merely a figment of poetical imagination?”
Geology attests that it existed, and at no very remote date, above the
water, granted we had no other proofs in ethnology or philology, of
which we do have a plethora as will be described in ensuing lectures.
It is no fantastic, make-believe continent, that we are discussing.
Mythology and folklore about it have not sprung from vague
imaginings, i f f i f f
We shall see that it was the womb and cradle of practically all the vital
and significant theological and social rituals and customs which go to
make up our “civilization” of today.
Atlantis actually existed, because the ocean bed shows that its con­
tours and defiles, miles under the surface, were formed by erosions or
transformations that had to come from wind and weather in an ex­
posed condition, or from volcanic upheavals, as they would assume
a far different aspect if they had been due to deep-sea vomitings.
Let us not be so bigoted as to try to get back of evidence so silencing
to puerile prattlings and skepticism.
F the religious and social parallelisms disclosing that there
must have been a considerable land-bridge in between
the Old World and the New, I am not going to say very
much in this lecture. As we shall see in a special treatise
on the subject, they are overwhelming in number and
significance. €| Consider the religious practices of both
Hebrews and Mexicans. They both worship toward the east, both
call the south the Right Hand of the world, both are punctilious in
their ablutions, both consider a woman who dies in childbirth as
worthy of great honor as the soldier who dies on the field of battle.
Both punished adultery by stoning to death. David “leaped and
danced before the Lord.” The Indians had their war dances. Both
peoples had an ark purporting to be the abiding-place of the Lord.
Consider certain philological similarities. How comes it that the later
language of the Mayans was almost pure Greek? How comes it that
the Bible tells us that in the beginning the earth was without form, and
void, and covered with water? In the Quichuan legends we are told,
18
“at first, was sea»no man»animal, bird, or green herb; there was
nothing to be seen but the sea and the heavens.*’
fhe Bible says, "And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the
tfaters.M The Quichuan legend says, "The Creator, the Former, the
nominator, the Feathered Serpent, those that gave life, moved upon
waters like a glowing light."
The Bible says, "And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be
gathered together unto one place and let the dry land appear: and it
w
asso." The Quichuan legend says, "The creative spirits cried out
Earth!* and in an instant it was formed, and rose like a vapor cloud;
immediately the plains and the mountains arose and the cypress and
pine appeared.’’
TheBible tells us, "And God saw that it was good." The Quichuan
legend says, "Then Gucumatz was filled with joy and cried out,
B
lessedbe thy coming, O Heart of Heaven, Hurakan, thunderbolt.* *’
^The order in which the vegetables, animals and man were formed
isthesame in both records.
InGenesis we are told, "And the Lord God formed man of the dust
oftheground." The Quichuan legend says, "The first man was made
o
fclay; but he had no intelligence and was consumed in the water."
(jInGenesis the first man was presented as naked. The Aztec legend
says, “The sun was much nearer the earth then than now and his
grateful warmth rendered clothing unnecessary."
E
venthe temptation of Eve appears in the American records. The
T
oltecs had paintings of a garden, with a single tree standing in its
m
idst; round the root of this tree is entwined a serpent whose head
appearing above the foliage displays the face of a woman. Torque--
m
adaadmits the existence of this tradition among them, and agrees
w
iththe Indian historians who affirm that this was the first woman in
theworld, who bore children, and from whom all men are descended.
T
hereisalsoa legend of Suchiquecal, who disobediently gathered roses
fromatree and injured herself and all her posterity.
T
helegends of the Old World that underlie Genesis and were used
b
yM
iltonin his Paradise Lost, appear in the Mexican legends of a war
o
fangelsinheaven and the fall of Zoutem-que and the other rebellious
spirits, ip tp
C
entral Americans possessed striking parallels to the account of the
D
eluge in Genesis; there is also a clearly established legend which
singularlyresembles the Biblical record of the Tower of Babel.
T
hese are but examples chosen at random of what would seem to
19
attest to a logical fact: that instead of ancient Americans’ pirating
or plagiarizing the Biblical stories as we know them, getting them
mysteriously across 3,000 miles of Atlantic ocean water, the reverse
was true.
These old accounts of humankind’s beginnings started undoubtedly in
Lemuria, were carried across Maya and Soutn America as civilization
pushed eastward, were of common knowledge in Atlantis, whence
they traveled with eastwardly migrating peoples to Egypt and Pali-
Stan, to be at length seized upon by the Hebrew compilers of Holy
Writ and incorporated in our modern Bible. But each of them re­
mained as part of the folklore in the lands which had known them.
Then when Atlantis sank and America was cut off from Europe and
Africa, they continued to qualify as the sacred origins of the peoples
on both sides of the earth. Now the inheritors of the Old World are
incensed that such accounts should be found and known in the N
ew
World, and try to explain it that they must have been carried there
by shipwrecked sailors, or possibly transferred there by the devil, as
we have seen the Spaniards declaring when they encountered the Cross
in Yucatan. As a matter of fact, these legends antedate Atlantis. That
remote are they, and that long have they survived in a hundred dif­
ferent guises.
GAIN referring to the geological data, however, in the
soundings of the ships to which I have called your atten­
tion we have presented the backbone of the ancient
continent which once occupied the whole of the Atlantic
Ocean, and •from whose washings much of the shore
territories of America and Europe must have been con­
structed. The deepest parts of the ocean, 3300 fathoms deep, repre­
sent those portions which sunk first, to-wit, the plains east and w
est
of the central mountain range. Some of the loftiest peaks of this
range, the Azores, St. Paul’s, Ascension, Tristan da Cunha, are still
above the ocean level, while the great body of Atlantis lies only a few
hundred fathoms beneath the sea.
In these “connecting ridges” we see the pathway which once extended
between the New World and the Old, and by means of which the
plants and animals of one continent traveled to the other. And by
the same avenues black men found their way from Lemuria to South
America, accounting for their presence on many isolated islands o
f
the South Seas, thence across into Atlantis and into Africa, fromthe
20
yjestside, as well as from Lemuria into Africa on the East Coast. This
populating of Africa with blacks of such dissimilar statures, physiog­
nomies and racial customs, would thus be accounted for with far more
logicthan is exhibited by ethnologists of the present,
fhe officers of the “Challenger** found the entire ridge of Atlantis
covered with volcanic deposits. These are the subsided mud which,
asPlato tells us, rendered the sea impassable after the destruction of
theisland. For hundreds of generations, until the time of Columbus,
there were no maritime explorations west of the Pillars of Hercules,
nowknown as the Rock of Gibraltar. This was not because those
ancient seamen feared to penetrate into the unknown, for we have
recordof their skirting the African shores as far down as the Cape of
GoodHope, and up the European coast to Britain. They did not sail
duewest because it was common knowledge that not far distant in the
Atlantic there existed tremendous mud-flats near the surface which
would halt all navigation. At sometime during the first fifteen cen­
turies of the Christian era, however, these mud-flats sank steadily
low
erand lower. Columbus was simply lucky, in that they had gone
dow
na sufficient depth from the surface to let the “Santa Maria** and
hertwo sister craft pass over them in safety.
It does not follow, as Donnelly so aptly remarks, that at the time
Atlantis was finally engulfed, the ridges connecting it with America
and Africa rose above the water level. These may have gradually
subsided into the sea, or may have gone down in cataclysms such as
aredescribed in the Central American books.
Sir C
. Wyville Thompson found that the specimens of the fauna of
thecoast of Brazil, brought up in his dredging machine, are similar to
thoseon the western coast of southern Europe. We shall go into the
questionof both fauna and flora in our next lecture. They prove con­
clusively, even if we did not have the aforesaid geological record to
convinceus, that the Old World and the New were once connected.
B
ut the disgraceful part of the matter, attesting to the colossal igno­
ranceof the vaunted modern scholar, is this same designation of the
oldness’*and “newness** of these hemispheres. If the truth could
onlybeconceded for once, we should be more correct in putting it that
these lands of the western hemisphere represent the Old World,
w
hereas Europe, Africa and Mesopotamia are in the New.
21
ROBING the subject assiduously as it A
find there is little enough m v l * l d? erVe*.
enough mystery in the
copper age between that of Stone and mi8S t
world s great copper age came in Atlantis and®* ^
far back as Maya and Lemuria. By the tim ^t Ven
was completely submerged, and Atlantis had
duced to a stupendous mud-flat beyond the Pillars of Hercule p te‘
and the great Adite kingdoms were sufficiently advanced
how to alloy tin with copper and get bronze. ° kno^
We shall come back constantly to the civilizations that rose and f
in the western hemisphere, particularly in Central and South Am •
We are by no means slighting them to take them up with Atlant^
we shall see her in her prime. We have all kinds of evidence, that**
the time that the northern part of South America was at water levd
a great inland sea covered what is now the tropical country of interio'
Brazil. It was to get into this sea from the Pacific side, that the
Titicaca canals and locks were constructed. About this Amazonian
Sea were located over 300 magnificent cities teeming with millions of
inhabitants. Churchward’s books treat with many of these in a most
graphic and interesting manner.
This Amazonian Sea opened on the eastern side into the south At­
lantic. But when the Andes Mountains arose, carrying up northern
South America like the floor of a vast elevator, this sea was dumped
out into the Atlantic, and on its fertile inclined bed sprang up the
twisted and matted jungles in which explorers are easily lost evento
this day. Millions of the inhabitants of the country were destroyedin
this cataclysm, and the dank and fetid jungle growths quickly choked
and obliterated the ruins of those ancient cities. Here and there re­
mains can be found which offer no small treasure to the archaeologist.
2pTcLZeintereired1n th ^ T We get c ^ re and ou.
Because they existed in such remote antiquity, however, we arenot
theological notions from the ideas of the p e o P le °f lanteanlife,
In our next lecture we will proceed to reconstruct this
beginning with the testimony of its flora and fauna or plant an
life, the evidence of which is so overwhelming.
22
