{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n11_what_was_tree_of_knowledge.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N11 What Was Tree Of Knowledge","mylang":"de"}
“
W
hat W
as the Tree
of Knowledge?”
BEING THE ELEVENTH OF
The Galahad Lectures
HE GALAHAD LECTURES constitute a great
curriculum of information on the Unknown
Esoteric History of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first forms of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantem and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
C These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer 0/1932 and have been recorded
and preserved in this form for students of'the Foundation Fel­
lowship. C The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly o f Metaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in Mortality and for accurate
knowledge of the souls enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth.
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BY PELLEY
PUBLISHERS OF ASHEVILLE IN THE STATE OF
NORTH CAROLINA POSTOFFICE BOX 2630
SOLD IN CONNECTION WITH THE LIBERATION
SCRIPTS ONE DOLLAR FOR FOUR Jjr ONE
HUNDRED OF EACH TO THE COMPLETE IN
­
STRUCTION TO BE READ CONSECUTIVELY if
"What Was the Tree of Knowledge?”
e l e v e n t h l e c t u r e
E ENDED our probe into past earthly proc-
] esses, astronomically and geologically, in our
last lecture, with an exposition of what prob­
ably was meant by the Serpent in Eden. Sup­
pose we go deeper into this serpent symbol­
ism, as well as give consideration to what the
ancients had in mind when they made lavish
references to the Tree of Knowledge. Our
Sabbath theology, and therefore the social
practices of our daily lives, are so closely
linked with hoary antiquity that only by get­
ting at the roots and causes of these symbolisms do we arrive at true
liberation from superstitious inhibitions.
You recall that we considered early in our delineations of the great
telluric ring or belt system about the infant earth, that high over the
equator spun the densest and blackest volume of this material, held
suspended anywhere from 1,000 to 17,000 miles in the skies by cen­
trifugal force. Not only would the density of this material make it ap­
pear black, but the way light was diffused over the earth in its Edenic
status would contribute to this ominous phenomenon high over the
equator and cause all sorts of conjectures in men’s minds regarding
its nature.
The world as we know it is now lighted by rays of the sun arriving
unobstructed out of interplanetary space. We say we see the sun, un­
less the day be cloudy, and it gives us its radiance. That radiance is
sometimes so strong as to result in sunstroke. More often it burns
our flesh or tans us. Always it warms by its unfiltered heat. But
3
O
A
K3I-4J
thousands of years ago, when there were almost no seas on the earth #
surface and the earliest forms of humanity lived under a great water
canopy, the earth was partly illuminated from the North Pole. 1am
speaking now of our northern hemisphere. Below the equator, m
the southern hemisphere, it was of course, lighted from the South
Pole. And the reason for this should be easy to grasp.
The earth does not spin vertically in its yearly trip around the sun. It
tilts slightly. This tilt was sufficient in the beginning, to throw the
sun’s light in under the water canopy at an angle and cast its radiance
on the opposite side of the water-wall or arch from the direction from
which it was shining.
You recall that the sky over Eden must have been one grand corridor
of arches, like a series of mammoth horseshoes, starting with thehigh­
est and darkest arches overhead or over the equator where the car­
bonaceous matter hung or spun thickest, and dropping away intoa
series of smaller and smaller arches toward the Poles. But although
those arches became smaller, relatively speaking, as they approached
the poles, they must also have grown brighter. Finally they ranout
in open naked sky where a handful of polar stars were seen, eternally
prinkling.
Viewed from Jupiter or Mars in those days, the earth must haveap­
peared as a sphere spinning inside an elongated cylinder of m
ist,
with the poles barely showing at the cylinder’s open ends. For the
earth would be turning so slowly at the poles, or rather, the centrif­
ugal force would be so weak that it could not hold matter suspended
over them. Therefore the water and other telluric materials w
ould
drop to earth and the polar skies be clear.
Think then, of the sun’s brilliance streaming in at the ends of either
of these polar tunnels of high-arched horseshoes, striking the m
ist-
walls and refracting. We know what sunsets can be, long after the
solar orb itself has dropped from sight over the horizon. Its radiance
paints the horizon’s clouds with a thousand indescribable colors. The
polar wall-mist must have been one perpetual sunset of stupendous
colors the day around. Small wonder that Isaiah, Job and other
Biblical penmen spoke awesomely again and again of “the Glory o
f
the North.”
You can point your telescope at Venus today and see exactly thesam
e
conditions maintaining. This lighting of the world from such refrac­
tion of rays coming in obliquely through this polar opening—calledby
the Greeks the Tholos or bowl—plays no small part in explanation
4
0f why Genesis tells us of the greater light to rule the day, and the
lesser light to rule the night, before God had made the sun or the
moon, according to Biblical chronology. No matter what hour of the
dayor nisht the time may have been, the inside of the horseshoe tun-
pel at the north would pick up the solar radiance and reflect it. At
the present time, the solar radiance sheers off into space after hitting
the rim of the globe at the poles, and we have night. Still, that is
not the point of the present lecture.
T stands to reason that if sunshine as we know it could
not penetrate the canopies of water and other materials
that were high in the skies, and if light came in through
the polar openings by reflection, the darkest locality on
the planet would be the equatorial area, because that
would be the farthest from the radiance at both ends
of the strange sky-tunnel effect overhead. In other words, the world
under the water canopy would be not unlike a titanic room with
sm
all windows at either end, to wit, the north and south polar open­
ings. Into these windows the sun’s beams would come streaming,
but a person in the center of that room would see almost total black­
ness overhead.
Just how much solar radiance did filter through the miles of water
rings and carbonaceous belts, we have no means of knowing. The
so-called daylight might have been pearl grey in color. But certain it
js, that the reflection of the sunbeams, coming in obliquely at the
north and south polar openings, must have created colors on those
arches surpassing a million east-and-west rainbows, a sight so stupen­
dousin glory that the eye of man will never see its like on earth again.
<
JNowremembering the billions of tons of carbonaceous matter that
hadbeen hurled aloft when the planet was an area of active volcanoes,
w
ecan easily recognize that at all times, high ovet the equator must
have moved a writhing, inky-black band. A veritable serpent in full
action, a mammoth python of the skies, must have been in year-
around activity, flowing across the skies. It looked like a snake, just
asthe thousand rotating rainbows over his head looked like the weav­
ing, twisting branches of a radiant tree. Therefore men pronounced
it a snake or the Spirit of the Tree of Knowledge. Let us see just
why this optical illusion was called the Tree of Knowledge,
we heard in our last lecture of the Star-bearing Tree! of Greek my­
thology. Possessed of this great background of astronomical and geo-
5
logical explanation, knowing that the telluric rings making those rota
ing rainbows must sometimes have opened and closed as masses t
different materials separated or broke away from one another, it •
not difficult to grasp how these periodic openings flashed glimpses of
the clear heavens beyond as we see them today. And if those glim
pse
came in the night, of course the ancients would get flashes of stars in
terspersed among the Tree’s branches. Thus if we want to accredit
the tree-appearance of the rotating rings, we can easily see why it
should bear stars for fruit.
W e must accredit the tree-appearance of the rings, for down through
the mythologies of all ancient peoples come the references to Sky
Trees or Heaven Trees that could not have originated from any other
phenomenon than the rings. We have the Soma Tree of the early
Hindus that gave long life to gods and men. We can see where that
longevity legend came from, because we learned in our last lecture
that so long as the water rings or the water canopy rotated in the skies,
the sun’s light containing the deadly actinic rays could not get through
to the earth’s surface and shorten life as it does today. So long as that
“tree” whirled in the skies and hid the sun, it did give long life to
gods and men. Or if it did not exactly give them long life, at least
it saved them from man’s present shortened life.
The Scandinavians had the sacred ash tree, Ygdrasil. They claimed
that its roots penetrated far down to the underworld and its branches
spread all over the sky. Of course if the rainbow rings spanned from
horizon to horizon, as they must have done, the effect would be of
putting down the “roots” to the “underworld.” As we shall see later
in studying the religions of the Atlanteans and Egyptians, any locality
beyond the horizon was designated as being in the underworld. So
the Scandinavian peoples add confirmation to the Vailian Theory by
this particular bit of folklore.
The Hindus once spoke of the heavens as a Tree, and so did m
any
other Far Eastern races; all declare that the Tree held the sky and
earth asunder. This last was not poetic language. We should not
make the mistake of thinking that the water canopy was similar tothe
sky-ceiling of modern aviation, used to describe low-hanging storm
clouds. It was not only far, far away and girdling the entire earth.
It was in constant motion, a series of striated bands, of different colors
and consistencies according to the materials in them. From thed
is­
tance at which ancient man viewed them, he would not see them
with the distinction of detail that we see the formations of thunder-
6
clouds a few thousand feet overhead. He would see striated masses,
a81have said, in indistinct phantasmagoria and interblended shades
and tones of color, from densest black, all the way up the spectrum
t0 golden white. And probably many of them would be translated
into imaginary forms not unlike the monsters he beheld about him on
earth. ±F t# ^
One of the most interesting trees of ancient legend was the Haoma
free of Pherescides, the “tree of all seas” and it comes from the story
of the Persian Eden. How could it be the “tree of all seas,” unless
at the time of which it treats those seas were whirled high overhead
bycentrifugal force? Turn where we may, we find confirmation over
and over again of an archaic sky marvel that modern science abso­
lutely ignores while at the same time admitting it cannot account for
either the deluge or the many ice ages that we know were merely the
falling of the rings at the poles.
HERE was another quaint bit of analogy used in de­
scribing this sky marvel, by the way, aside from the
Tree pattern which we prefer in our own Eden story.
That was to liken the striated and rotating rings making
up the canopy, to a bridge. Everywhere throughout
ancient folklore we find the Bridge of Heaven occurring
again and again, all of it blind Greek to us unless we accredit the ring
theory, while at the same time remembering that this Tunnel of Rain­
bows spanning the zenith would resemble a bridge mightier than any
onwhich man’s eye has ever gazed.
Turn to the Far East. How many of you have seen the beautiful
formation of Japanese bridges thrown over the streams of Nippon,
andwondered why the people of Japan should span their streams with
structures very much like horseshoes in construction? Why not lay
their bridges flat across a stream like other peoples? Why climb a
flight of stairs, or mount up over a semicircle on one side, just to come
down on the other side? Perhaps you have thought it the Japanese
fashion for giving their bridges the proper truss-support, even in a
garden, over a pool. Perhaps you have thought their garden bridges
werecopies of the large bridges over great streams, so fashioned that
ships might pass beneath without striking them.
Thefacts seem to be that no Japanese would consider a bridge a true
bridge unless it perpetuated the Nipponese fable of Izanagi and
Izanami, the Adam and Eve of Japanese mythology of which I have
7
told you in a previous lecture. You remember that they too stood
“the Bridge of Heaven**and created land in the north by stirring tk*
waters of the globe with a mammoth jade spear. The Japanese
pie saw the arch of the Tholos for untold generations and said: “Th­
is the bridge by which Izanagi and Izanami came to earth fromheav­
en.** And so today the Japanese have perpetuated that deathle^
fable, even when throwing a little bridge over a small synthetic stream
in one of their dwarf gardens.
The old Persians expressed the bridge idea called Chindat. M
yth-
ologists tell us it meant “the Bridge of the Judge.’* In ancient tim
es
the word Judge, which we use in many applications from high legal
potentate to the name of a humorous magazine, was derived froma
term meaning “the divider” or the “one who divides.” You cansee
where it would be applicable, not only to the professional divider
of goods to settle a court squabble over property but also as the
“divider of heaven and earth”—and incidentally the root im
plication
of the word offers new light on why we call the Almighty Potentate,
“Judge” of man’s affairs spiritually.
The Scandinavians had Heindaller, like the Japanese sun god. H
e
too stood on a “bridge,” and the root of Heindaller means “divider."
All men, apparently, saw that these high-suspended telluric oceans
served as the divider of heaven and earth.
Away back in the Vedas, the Hindus had the Tree of Life, Som
a,
which I have mentioned to you, and they passed their interpretationo
f
this pre-diluvian wonder on to the Chinese and Japanese, and ina
later day on to the Buddhists, who had the Tree of All Wisdomand
All Knowledge. The Chinese, by the way, had as their Tree of L
ife,
the Tong Tree.
When we come to the derivation of the facts in the Hebrew scriptures,
our Bible of today on which our religion rests, we observe howlavish­
ly Ezra, the High Priest, compiling the Old Testament in Jerusalem
in 757 A. D., drew for his facts on the old mythologies, particularly
the Chinese. The Orientals said the Tong Tree grew hard by theclosed
gate of heaven. It was closed by the caelum or heaven, so far asearth­
ly men were concerned. This Tree of colored waters and tintedvapors,
whose branches moved in blowing effects, naturally produced a
“closed gate” between the planet and the firmament.
A series of lesser myths, all referring to the same celestisd exhibit high
above the earth, are almost inexplicable unless the evidence of astron­
omy is first accepted. The Jambu Tree in the middle of the delightful
8
plateaus which crown the heights of Peru, was apparently the Meros
of the Greeks. Meros was a thigh of Zeus, the thunderbolt hurler.
(j "By the full waters of the great deep,” say the Asiatic scripts, “grew
the giant overshadowing tree whose branches were of beautiful
crystal.” Ijr 30f
Theliterature of the ancient world seems to be one grand compendium
of eulogies to a heavenly marvel that has now passed out of man’s
thinking entirely. He retains the folklore but not its origin.
And thus we examine the Hebrew narrative of the Garden of Eden
witha new interest, probing to find if there could not have been equal­
lyplausible astronomical and geological facts behind the simple legend
of Eve’s meeting a serpent which induced her to eat of the Tree of
Knowledge of Good and Evil and give her husband samples of its
fruit, whereupon both suffered eternal misfortunes.
HERE the ancient chroniclers and theological logicians
seem to have erred in their reasonings over untold gen­
erations, was in concluding that Adam and Eve partook
of the fruits of this Tree knowingly. That is to say,
coming into knowledge of good and evil was not a pure­
ly elective process with them. And yet we can under­
stand how such conclusions were arrived at, when we consider that it
has been the endeavor of philosophers from the dawn of reasoning,
toexplain or rationalize the dual nature of man making for either con­
struction or destruction in his affairs.
Ifwewant to take the Garden of Eden story on its merits, meaning, if
w
e want to take it as a basis for literal facts to be accepted in our
thinking, we come at once to a most severe arraignment of the Creator,
whichdoes not seem to fit the nature of the Divine Being in the slight­
est respect, i? tp
IfAdam and Eve were put into the Garden as the only pair of human
beings in existence, to live in it and enjoy it “in innocence,” thought­
ful people may reasonably ask why the Almighty created such a tree
and located it in this Garden. If Adam and Eve were not intended to
eat of the fruits of it and know good and evil, what purpose did it
serveby being there at all)
W
hat a perfectly nonsensical and unfair thing to do: to create a tree
ofsuch potential dynamite, put it amid all other trees, give it enticing
fruit, and then for no special reason threaten the First Pair with death
if they indulged themselves with it!
9
The Fundamentalist argues, of course, that it was planted the*
test the first man and his wife and see if they would fall into teimJ0
tion and disobey the Almighty’s stipulations. But he unwittiM
*
declares, in that event, that God was not all-knowing, that Hec
o
Jl
not foresee the results of such a situation, and that the disobedient
of our first parents was such a surprising shock to Him that hecurs^
them in anger and drove them forth to shift for themselves.
If we accept the Fundamentalist’s version, then there seems toh
av
e
been a lot about the world and the man and woman so created, th
at
the Almighty was not aware of. Therefore He could not haveb
een
an omnipotent, omnipresent God at all. To say that it is all abeauti­
ful poem, means nothing so long as the principles behind the p
o
em
are accepted as the basis for a theology by which men and w
om
en
are shaping their lives and fortunes in the present. We say ino
n
e
breath that God created man and woman innocent, and in the nex
t,
that He put a Tree in the Garden whose fruit was loaded with tragedy
for them, and when they ate of it He let them suffer untold sorrow
and loss throughout the balance of their days.
W hat would we think of a pair of earthly parents who left a b
ab
y
boy or girl unminded in a comfortable nursery, part of the equipm
ent
of which was a cabinet stocked with several phials of nitroglycerine?
Those parents might admonish those children not to touch the p
h
ials
of nitroglycerine under pain of terrible destruction to themselves, but
if those youngsters had never witnessed destruction and did not know
what havoc a nitro detonation could work, would we blame thosech
il­
dren for investigating the deadly stuff when they came to it? W
ould
we not castigate those human parents severely for leaving it inth
e
nursery at all? And yet God, being God, gets excused for suchcrim
­
inal folly. That is, if we want to follow the reasoning of the Funda­
mentalists. £&
If, on the other hand, we will deduct from the whole narrative th
e
manifest desire of the early religious philosophers to rationalize th
e
natural perversity they found in man’s nature, and take the Edennar­
rative as the exemplification of great astronomical facts, the w
hole
story comes clear and God is not to be classed with the human parents
equipping their children’s nurseries with nitroglycerine chests, at a
ll.
IJ Man did experience an eating of the Fruit of the Tree of theK
now
l­
edge of Good and Evil, and did become wise. But it was a process
postulated for him from the moment the planet was first created.
Which explains why the Tree was created in Eden. Only it was th
e
10
Sky Tree of the telluric arches, and when man “ ate*’ of the fruit
I di
ifit
us see just wherein the analogy is correct.
he did know he was naked, and in course of time he did die as a
iu-.
|F WE want to dip for a moment into the stupendous in­
formation supplied us in the Liberation Scripts, we find
man as a spiritual species coming down into the physical
vehicle to perfect his sense of self-awareness. As the
text reads in the Scripts: “He came in a great migration
from another planetary system, aware of himself as
sentient spirit, but not of individuality in specific character develop­
m
ent.” In other words, he knew from the beginning that he was
sentiently alive, but he had small personal self-awareness; the per­
fect prototype of “innocence.**
T
oexplain this more fully, I use a metaphor I have often employed
before: a herd of zebras. There are ten thousand zebras in the herd
andeach one of them knows in a dim, indistinct way that it is alive
andpossibly that it is a zebra. When a lion roars, each one will bolt
inself-preservation, and thus the whole herd will run to escape the
m
enace. Each zebra is a unit in the species known as zebra. But
not until each begins to pass through experiences separately that en­
hance its own self-awareness, do zebras begin to distinguish them­
selves, each one, as Jack Zebra, or Mary Zebra.
A
ndthat sense of individualized character, the spiritual development
w
ithin that makes such separate discrimination or recognition possi­
ble, applied to the man species seems to be the sum and substance of
ourwhole earthly sojourn.
Into this earthly condition known as Eden, or Paradise, because the
w
orldunder the water canopy was then a vast tropical garden, storm­
lessand windless, came the first Red Race of A-Dom, with the zebra-
herd consciousness. And the long process began, making each unit
inthat herd intensely aware of himself as an individual.
W
ehave reason to believe that a specific number of that man-species
cam
e thus into the finite earth condition and learned how to possess
andmanipulate physical bodies in the sense of biological mechanical
occupancy.
Andwe have reason to know that this biological mechanism and the
spirit inhabiting it, were, and are, two separate entities in the mun­
dane system of sentient life.
11
Until that principle is firmly admitted and established, we might ttu
for a thousand years and find life the same enigma as when webega/
But we have to admit such principle, because in metapsychical
ploration we are discovering that one spirit rightfully occupying a
body, can be crowded out and forced to let another disembodied spirit
come in and dictate the mechanics of that physical form. Our insane
asylums are filled to overflowing with such cases. Whole troupe*
of entities will find a way to manifest through one physical organism
,
and constantly do so. They declare themselves and identify them
­
selves. They give separate life-memories of themselves, supplying
data that the rightful soul with the claim of birth-occupancy to that
body, could never have acquired or secreted in his subconscious m
ind
1 had personal knowledge of a case where seven different discam
ate
entities were so declaring themselves from day to day and hour to
hour in a certain young man’s body, visiting it and keeping it aliv
e.
When we are able to get into clear communication with the rightful
soul of the young man himself, he stated pathetically that he hadn
o
t
had complete and uninterrupted control of his own physical m
echa­
nism for a matter of four years.
Ignorant psychiatrists, striving to explain mortal life purely on m
a­
terialistic or physiological grounds, make the blanket pronouncement
that such a young man is insane, and let it go at that. They w
ould
not attempt to explain how the young man knew intimate details
about other lives that could not possibly have been his own at all. T
o
admit and consider such data would mean upsetting their sm
u
g
physiological basis for all such phenomena. They conveniently
ignore it. ±?
UT such references are important here because they es­
tablish that man as independent, volatile, disembodied
spirit, could have come to this planet when it was in its
tropical state under the water canopy and begun copying
and inhabiting the biological forms he found here mani­
festing as animals in process of evolution. They are also
important to show that it was in the process of such occupancies that
man began to acquire cognition of his own spiritual individuality in
each personified instance. Let us see.
W
e are told that after man had arrived on this planet in his pristine
“innocence” of all facts but that greatest of all cognitions, that he
was alive, he took to relieving the tedium of his exile by sporting in
all forms of matter and learning what he could create for himself by
his powers of volatile Thought.
Howmany of us realize that when the Almighty of Holy Writ sug­
gestedto Adam that he give names to all beasts of the field and fowls
of the air, it is entirely plausible that Adam so named them because
hemight already have had something to do with the evolution of their
bodies himself and thereby recognized them for what they were?
Forever and a day we are called to realize that Adam was not the
nameof one poor naked chap who went padding around a dinky little
tropical garden in Mesopotamia. Adam is our modern representation
of an old Lemurian and Atlantean word, A-Dom, meaning “of the
firstRed Race.” That is accurate philology which cannot be disputed.
It is interesting to note in this connection that red is the first color
perceptible to the eye of the infant; it is likewise the first color on
thescale of the spectrum. We cannot see below red with the normal
eyeand we cannot see above the violet, or into the ultra-violet.
A-Dom was the first Red race. And in all the ages since, man has
been coming up through the colors of the chromatic scale, into the
Yellowof the Mongols, the Green (or olive) of the Latins, into the
violet-skinned, or White, peoples who are the world’s leaders and ad­
ministrators of the present day. Incidentally too, it is interesting to
note that in the tinting of auras, whitish-violet is everywhere recog­
nizedas the Christ Color, the Christ being the highest form of spiritual
evolution possible on this earth. Thus color has a direct affinity with
spiritual evolution. So it is entirely consistent with physics, to call the
first race of men red.
These dear little people who cast the Almighty out of their lives be­
cause of His inconsistencies and imperfections, are considering only
13
an anthropomorphic God of early tradition. They are conBideringtk
-.
creations of such a glorified human being as literal. They thinktlw
are intellectual because they have the wits to pick out flaws
creation chronology such as the item of where Cain got his wife,
then refuse to use that intellect to probe into the real story of tL
human race and confront the fact that there are records on themo^
ments of Centred America attesting that the human race has beenk
an organized social state upon some sections of this planet for fiv*
million years. But to get back to the Tree of Knowledge of G
ood
and Evil. . . .
All our sources of information declare that in some form therew
asa
First Race that existed on this planet in utter innocence of its true
nature or the nature of the location in which it found itself inS
pace,
that its first biological mechanism was lifted but a step above theani­
mal, and that in its first stages or states of growth it had not becom
e
possessed of the significance or potentiality of individuality.
It found itself in a tropical world, the heat of which made clothesunen­
durable as in the jungles of equatorial countries today, and som
ehow
or other it partook of fruit that suddenly “made it as gods, know
ing
good and evil.”
The Bible story has it that a literal naked woman went up to aliteral
tree and conversed with a literal python. The python said: “Y
ou’
v
e
been hoaxed about this Tree business. Eat of its fruits. Be asw
ise
as the arrogant Being who created you and put you in this garden
He says that if you eat of this apple you’ll die. I say you won’
t d
ie
.
Go ahead and find out.** So in feminine curiosity, Eve succum
bed
to these persuasions and found the fruit of the Tree very lusciousin
­
deed. So much so that she carried it to Adam and he ate likew
ise.
€j Is it not entirely possible, in the face of astronomical facts know
n
to us, in the face of misinterpretations of who Adam was, andw
hat
the true Garden of Eden was, that we have erred likewise in identify­
ing the Fruit of the Tree?
Did Eve break off a literal apple from the Tree of Knowledge an
d
sink her teeth in its flawless skin?
Or was that “fruit** something else entirely, something that fewh
av
e
recognized up to the present time because the astronomical and
geological facts have been kept from the race, for fear that therewould
result a showing up of the ignorance of so-called modern scientists?
We have established the Serpent as the Spirit of the Deep, orth
e
great carbonaceous rings, lowest and blackest over the equator, so
14
, ngas the sky was a smothered tunnel of telluric arches. We have
e
g
tablished that man and woman came to this tropical, tempestless
Janet in “spiritual innocence” of themselves as potential God crea-
Sons, t? tf
\fje know that the First Race partook of something that brought
knowledge of itself and of the planetary world in which it found it-
jelf. We know that following that partaking, a condition was estab­
lished that was epitomized in the Bible record by Adam’s turning
uponEve and exclaiming: ‘‘Listen, my dear, I think we’d better put
0nsome clothes!”
W
hat, I say again, was the Apple?
N THE first place, it must have been the Fruit of the
Heavenly Tree in the form of something round, of some­
thing enticing. Of its very essence, it must have been
something that had a natural appeal to either the senses
or the spirit. Why has it not occurred to us that the
Apple of the Edenic narrative might really have been
thesun as man now knows it?
Infolklore tales people try to get across ideas that are intelligible to
childminds. If a gigantic tree grew over Eden and it was the Tree
ofthe telluric rings, and if it seemed to have a serpent spirit guarding
itinthe form of the black carbonaceous matter rotating and writhing
high over the equator; and if this stupendous- Sacred Tree in some
mythologies had the stars for fruit as the rings opened and closed and
revealed them aloft ‘‘among its branches,” is it not plausible that the
Fruitofwhich the first pair, or first race, partook and which conveyed
tothemthat they were naked, might have been symbolic of the flam­
ingsolar orb? Certainly we know that the sun’s rays, getting down
throughthe atmosphere cleared of the water canopy and shining with­
out obstruction on the earth’s surface and on the creatures thereon,
w
ouldresult in a ‘‘driving forth” from the Edenic condition.
W
esolve a whole basketful of hitherto unexplained mysteries when
w
e get at the astronomical facts. We see from the foregoing why
“theevening and the morning were the first day” before God was re­
portedto have made the sun. The higher critic or the atheist will de­
clarethat there could have been no evening or morning till the sun
w
as created to shine first on one side of a revolving planet and then
ontheother. But what the ancient chronicler meant to say was: the
sunhad not been created insofar as man’s earthly observation made
15
him able to discern it. The sun was not “created’’ till man beheld it
in the literal sense, since nothing exists for man till he has had sensory
perception of it..
We perceive from the foregoing also, a solution of that great mystery
of why God “rested on the seventh day and hallowed it.” It isn’t until
we get into the astronomical ramifications of Adam’s and Eve’s lives
that we begin to realize that perhaps those great epochs ending in
the divine seventh day—the idea of the Sabbath as being the day on
which the Creator “rested” from His labors—might go back to that
astronomical and geological condition that came at the end of a series
of planetary epochs.
The various stages of creation which we have studied to date in these
lectures, having been experienced and completed, there followed un­
der the water veil a long period of lethargy and lassitude in all natural
processes. Under the water veil the infant planet had finished its
chaotic period, solidified its crust, stopped the spewing of volcanic
matter into the heavens in the former vast quantities, and developed
insect, reptile and animal life. These stages of development over,
man had come on the scene in his momentous migration, taken to the
use of animal forms to get physical expression, and settled down to
long life in childlike nudity in a garden world that was steaming warm.
No actinic rays from the sun reached him, to energize his chemical
processes, quicken his physical activity and burn out his energy. Ani­
mals and plants which shared his warm moist world with him were
equally as complacent and tardy in their evolution. No rains fell, no
winds blew, no thunder rolled, for these climatical conditions would
depend on air currents of various kinds sponsored by the sun’s direct
rays, t?
The epoch under the water canopy, before the fountains of the “deep”
were broken up, was indeed a Day of Rest. Verily could it be said
that, geologically, God had rested from His labors. So man lived
through that period of earthly lassitude and had painted upon his
anthropological memory the idea that after successive periods of labor,
he too, like Nature and Nature’s God, needed rest.
Sunday, therefore, the Day of Rest, the holiday or Holy Day after
six days of work, rests squarely and securely on a great cosmic process
whose basis is astronomical. In due process of time the water canopies
thinned and fell in precipitations, the actinic rays touched earth and
man’s organism, and all was changed. Sunday was over. Monday
morning of the aeons had come and man had to get to work. And
16
it has been Monday morning for him ever since. No more running
around in tropical warmth in his birthday suit. No more depending
0n Nature to supply all his wants. Following the various deluges,
w
ith the skies clearing and the sun’s rays getting through to him,
storm
s came, seed time and harvest alternated, once a year it was
necessaryto till the soil in order to make it produce food that sustained
life. But he still looked back to that ideal period under the water
canopy when all the earth was a lazy tropical Eden. And in com­
memoration of it, ages ago he instituted the Seventh Day of Rest, the
holiday in the week.
Todayorthodox people pass laws that fruit stores, filling stations and
m
otion picture theatres must not be opened on the Sabbath, the day
setaside to the Almighty because once long ago he instigated the ob­
servance. But He instigated it as a great geological epoch, not be­
cause He demanded that type of adulation. As a matter of fact,
theobservance of the Sabbath by thinking man antedated the creation
ofJehovah in men’s thought by hundreds of thousands of years. We
should remember that man has only recognized Jehovah, the anthro­
pomorphicGod whom so many millions now think they worship, over
atriflingmatter of 3,300 years, as we shall see when we get to the un­
censoredstory of the evolution of the Hebrew theology.
A
sIhave said, there are chronologies of dynasties on monuments in
M
aya and other parts of Central America, taking the race back at
least 5,000,000 years. For five million years men lived and died on
thisplanet without the frailest suspicion that such a God as Jehovah
existed, and did not appear to fare much worse spiritually than they do
atpresent. But even that long ago, they did keep the Sabbath. They
kept the Sabbath in commemoration of the long Edenic period under
thewater veil. They were paying a stupendous tribute to Nature in
this. And we should remember it the next time some puritanic per­
sonbreaks out in gooseflesh because we prefer to motor in the coun­
tryon Sunday instead of looking sanctimonious in a stuffy meeting­
house.
W
eshall see later on that most of our religious observances that form
thebasis of Christianity for millions of devout people, were nothing
but holidays and pagan rites based on adulations of Nature, which
w
ereborrowed by the Hebrews from a score of lands and times and
incorporated in the religion about which we make so much ado.
Inregard to Sunday, I believe the inhibitions forced upon us to ob­
serveit so literally in the childhood of many of us, did far more harm
17
than good to our souls since it presented God and spirituality t0
in a fixed, inelastic form that stunted and stifled us more than it •
spired us. Common sense in observance of the Seventh Day is iv!
as important to us as common sense in eating or any other itemJ
living. So long as we know the truth about these origins of so-calj^
holy matters, we can conduct ourselves with a wholesome attitude
toward them.
ERHAPS we may wonder why Eve was first to sampje
the Fruit of the Tree of Knowledge. Why did not A
dam
succumb to the wiles of the serpent and carry the appje
to his wife ? The waggish-minded delight to explain it
by declaring that woman was the original cause ofall the
trouble in the world and that because of her, man has
been getting himself “in wrong” ever since. But again we come toa
perfectly logical explanation that adds to our spiritual liberation.
The Biblical symbology has it that the woman received the fruit, be-
cause in divine cosmology the feminine half of the human soul is the
conserving, nurturing element. She has ever been the “receiver”from
Nature, epitomized most graphically by receiving life itself in herphys­
ical womb. If Adam as man had first taken the solar fruit fromthe
Tree of Life, the exposition would have been technically wrong. The
sun in the form of actinic rays would have had its biological effecton
woman before it did so on man. In this sense it is allegorically correct
to say that woman “ate” of the Fruit before man did. At least shea
s­
similated the effects of the solar orb upon the biological species be­
fore her masculine complement. And those of you who have studied
the “Liberation Scripts and perfected yourselves in knowledge of the
half-soul idea in the masculine and feminine principle, can understand
.how the Bible is technically correct.
As the rings making up the canopy began to drift toward the p
o
les
and fall in avalanches of ice and snow, projecting the various iceag
es
as geologists know them, high in the heavens the glistening, blistering
sun became visible. Whereupon the sun did everything that wefin
d
carried out in the allegorical fable. The Serpent disappeared—
n
at- i
urally—and became something that crawled on its belly forever after- I
ward. That is to say, the equatorial telluric rings, coming to earthin j
precipitations, brought down the visual phenomenon that man h
a
d
always supposed to be a great python in the skies, and settled the"ser- |
pent” on the earth’s crust as layers of carbonaceous geological m
ate'
18
-a In other words, it got down close to earth, or better still, crawled
fnonthe earth as part of it. In this sense it crawled there forever after­
ward, on its belly. I can well remember how much distress it gave me
a8a child to figure out how the serpent locomoted before the Apple
episode. Taken in its astronomical aspects, however, the feat is quite
clear, i f i f
Andit was the sun that drove man and woman out of Eden and made
themput on clothes.
Y
es, they knew they were naked. They knew they were naked be­
cause arctic blasts on their bare pelts were telling them so. The mo­
ment in eternity when enough telluric and aqueous material in the
formof whirling sky rings had slithered away toward the poles and
been precipitated in great deluges, for the sun to push through the
canopy and become a factor in climatical changes, men and women
began to know the seasons of summer heat and winter cold. The
warmth of the furnace-like earth could no longer be held down close
to its crust but began escaping into space. By the same process, the
zero temperature of interplanetary space began to have its effect
on those portions of the globe temporarily turned away from the sun.
{
JBut that is not the only effect the sun had on the earth and its hu­
man life. As we shall see in our next lecture, it revealed the naked
heavens to man, showed him the constellations and planets, and made
himrealize that he was living on a planet in space himself. To that
degree, he lost his pristine innocence and began to take on knowledge.
Thus it can be truthfully and accurately said that the Great Tree that
rearedover Eden was the Tree of Knowledge itself, in that it brought
to man a sense of his dilemma climatically and something of his loca­
tionin heavenly space.
Inour next lecture we shall go even further into this when considering
why Adam was driven out of Eden. W hat interests us now is the
fact that the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil not only bore stars
occasionally as the water rings parted and disclosed them afar in the
heavens, but that gradually it bore a great golden fruit all in one piece,
thesun itself, and when the people of the first red race had partaken
ofitor received the effects of it, their order of living was altered.
W
ecan easily understand that to the ancient peoples who concocted
the folklore which afterward resolved itself into the Adam and Eve
fable, the sun at first must have appeared as a great golden apple
hung in the branches of that vast Sky Tree. Bear in mind that it
would not have immediately glowed with its present luminosity. It
19
would have come into view gradually, over a period of ages, and ap.
peared much as it appears to us today when we look at it through fog
or smoked lenses. W hat better way to describe it than to report that
it bore the aspect of a great golden apple?
Holy W rit tells us that the Serpent said unto woman: Ye shall not
surely die: for God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then
your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and
evil. Well, when the Adamic Pair had encountered the sun in all its
actinic potency, it is a truth that their eyes were opened; they did
know good and evil, as gods. At least they knew that life had been
good under the protecting water veil, and that when the veil parted
and let the rays come through and strike the earth, much ensued w
hich
was anything but good; in fact it was evil indeed in one of its effects
upon their physical selves.
HE point at which we part from the ancient historians,
appears when we are asked to accept that all this w
as
“sin** on the part of man and woman—at least sin as
we know it in orthodoxy. Sin is essentially ignorance,
and should be translated as such all through the O
ld
Testament. Wickedness came into human nature atquite
another place and from quite another cause, ending with the two great
catastrophes of the Flood of Noah and the fiery destruction of Sodom
and Gomorrah, both of which we shall study in enlightening detail
in their proper sequences.
We maintain that this vast cosmic process was the plan of divinity
from the first for man’s spiritual evolution, and that the Tree o
f
Knowledge of Good and Evil was planted in Eden in the beginning
to acquaint man with his ultimate potentialities for knowing good
and evil but deliberately choosing good.
We know geologically that there was more than one flood. The priests
of Sais, in Egypt, declared so to Solon the Greek historian on hism
em
­
orable visit to them hundreds of years before Christ, or before th
e
Hebrews came to the world’s attention with their plagiarized theology.
There was logically a flood every time one of the canopy rings w
as
precipitated in the far north or far south.
Small wonder that when the final remnant of the canopy came dow
n
in the Deluge of Noah it was chronicled that God said that He w
ould
put a rainbow in the sky as a pledge that there would never be another
flood. There could not be another flood, because the heavenly w
aters
20
hadall fallen to earth. There was nothing more to hide the sun as the
sun had been hidden for thousands of years. Before that final flood
therecould be no rainbows, because the sun rays could not get through
thewater-filter that was the canopy, to shine on the mists and make a
rainbow. i*
Soin the vast cosmic process up through the ages, Adam, or the First
Red Race, came to a time when the earth was no longer a steam-
heated garden in which the world’s first nudist colony could operate.
Finally the last deluge came and the sky was clear of all water except
that drawn up from day to day by absorption and held suspended as
clouds. The human race had left the Edenic Cradle and was launched
onits way toward mature spiritual achievement.
Remember that the Hebrews took the story of creation, Eden and
Noahs Deluge, from the Babylonian, Greek and Egyptian narratives,
and that these races in turn got their facts from the Atlantean and
Lemurian accounts. As proof of this, we find monuments and tablets
inCentral America to this day in which Eve is pictured in a nude con­
dition, sitting in a tropical garden and discoursing with a serpent coiled
around the trunk of a tree. And those monuments and tablets were
sculptured thousands of years before the Hebrews were ever heard of.
(| Before the Fountains of the Deep were broken up by the falling
of the last water-rings, the flora and fauna were so sluggish and
lethargic in development that hundreds of years were required to
bring the various species to fruition. When the sun’s rays reached
the planet unobstructed, the seasons sharpened. Air currents began
their everlasting play. Electric storms became possible because clouds
were projected that held different degrees of static electricity. Adam
hadto dress himself in the pelts of wild beasts in order to protect him­
self from the earth’s icy blasts. Truly he was eating of the Tree of
Knowledge of Good and Evil. Doubtless he decided that this change
in terrain conditions was very, very evil, since it made him hustle as
he had never been required to hustle in his life. He had to hustle
to plant and harvest every year, now that fructification of vegetable
life was a seasonable event. He had to hustle to kill animals to get
skins for his clothes.
Adam took it out in a racial peeve against the Almighty. Somehow
theAlmighty had “cursed” him. But all the Almighty had done was
to impress upon him that he couldn’t remain an innocent baby all his
life; he had to grow up and reach discrimination and maturity of
judgment. He had to perform as grown men and women perform.
21
But again, Adam didn’t like it, any more than a lot of adolescent hu­
mans today like such treatment. And he blamed the change on God
on the Serpent, on Woman. All three had contributed to make him
hustle, or so he thought, and he would castigate all three eternally
in the Garden of Eden mythology.
ND SO in the study of the stars we find true rationaliza-
JVaV
w Nftg tion of one of the great tenets of modern theology. A
s-
' V tronomy becomes the essence and root of all the other
^ sciences. There is scarcely a mystery in all the mys­
teries of the ages that we cannot run down and have
solved for us if we have knowledge of the heavenly
bodies and the processes by which they come into existence and play
their parts. Because the starry heavens are the macrocosm of which
earthly man and his evolution are the microcosm—or the Great Cost-
mos and the Little Cosmos.
We have to master the fundamentals of the Macrocosm to knoww
hy
we are here on earth at the present moment, where the earth islocated
in relation to all the other heavenly bodies, what causes changesin
our climates, and what results in mass psychology. The Atlanteans
knew early in the history of the race that celestial influences w
ere
mainly at the bottom of such vast terrain disturbances as we have
touched upon in these lectures. From their astronomical deductions
we get explanations of all of our legends and myths.
And summing them all up, their real purpose is to enlighten usin
the fact that God postulated all these experiences for man progressive­
ly, that it was intended from the first that man should combat theele­
ments, make a home for himself on a seemingly unfriendly earth, an
d
thereby learn his spiritual potentialities by the strength of character
which such combat developed.
We shall see increasingly as we go along that behind and beyonda
ll
folklore and mythology, all fable and allegory, great astronomicalan
d
geological principles have simply been working toward fruition, an
d
that man is not the butt of impersonal processes, a pawn in theg
am
e
of Cosmos, but a divine being himself, deliberately putting Edenb
e­
hind him, that down the span of his days he might become a self-suf­
ficient entity, knowing himself for what Christ called him inthem
ass:
a Son of God, and it doth not yet appear what he shall be!
22
