{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1932__pelley___galahad_lectures_n21_why_atlanteans_migrated_to_egypt.pdf","mytitle":"Galahad Lectures N21 Why Atlanteans Migrated To Egypt","mylang":"de"}
m ----
nypl research libraries
3433 08874119 8
Why the Atlanteans
Migrated to Egypt
The Twenty-Firstof
The
GALAHAD 8
LECTURES
W hy the A tlanteans
M igrated to Egypt
BEING THE TWENTY-FIRST OF
/
The Galahad Lectures
*
-5
>
HE GALAHAD LECTURES constitute a great
curriculum of information on the unknown
Esoteric History of the Earth, from the time of
its conception as a planet, up through the Edenic
period when the first forms of human life exist­
ed under the Great Water-Veil, into the Ante­
diluvian world with its strange civilizations, and through the
Atlantean and Egyptian epochs into the modern Christian.
These Scripts comprise the Instruction given as part of the
Lecture Courses of Galahad College Summer School held in
Asheville, N. C., in the summer of 1932, and have been recorded
and preserved in this form for students of'the Foundation Fel­
lowship. C| The Foundation Fellowship is a nation-wide as­
sembly of Metaphysical Students, sacredly searching for the
true fundamentals behind life in Mortality and for accurate
knowledge of the souVs enhancements in octaves higher than
those of earth.
THE GALAHAD LECTURES ARE ISSUED EVERY
LITTLE WHILE FOR MEMBERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE FOUNDATION FELLOWSHIP BY FEL­
LOWSHIP PRESS, INCORPORATED, OF INDIAN­
APOLIS, IN THE STATE OF INDIANA if POST
OFFICE BOX 1477 if SOLD IN CONNECTION
WITH THE LIBERATION SCRIPTS if ONE DOL­
LAR FOR FOUR if ONE HUNDRED OF EACH TO
THE COMPLETE INSTRUCTION if TO BE READ
CONSECUTIVELY if
Why Atlanteans Migrated to Egypt
THE TWENTY-FIRST LECTURE
N OUR last lecture we propounded a question
that we lacked the time and space to explore
fully, namely, the chronology of those great
disasters which overtook the ancient world,
and of which one in particular distributed the
Atlantean peoples about the earth’s surface
to resuscitate the mother culture as best they
could according to the lessons they had
learned while Atlantis was in her prime. Let
us consider such chronology closely in our
present discussion. The priests of Sais told
Solon that they had recorded knowledge of many floods. This would
corroborate even from the ancient Platonic doctrine and writings, the
truth of the Vailian theory of the falling vapor canopies or rings. For
logical physics would attest that as the sky rings of water vapor were
precipitated as rain they would produce floods having disastrous re­
sults on the affected lands and peoples, as well as projecting new ice
ages when arctic cold rendered these descending vapors into titanic
snow fields, and finally glaciers extending from the poles far into the
temperate zones.
We cannot ignore the mighty consistency and tempo of such happen­
ings. There is no break, disruption or paradox in the evolution of one
event out of the other, and the whole is attested not only by modern
astronomy and geology but by folklore and legend. The true cosmic
record is without flaws, without holes, without broken fragments in
the pattern. On the other hand, the hypotheses advanced by men
( W , ?
' 3TO,I6'42
ignorant as to cosmic fundamentals are almost adolescent in their dis-
crepancies, their pitfalls, and their contradictions in logic. Every little
while these scholastic adolescents declare frankly, “We don’t know,"
or “We have no proofs or records at this point; all is conjecture."
They confront these periodic holes in doctrines, or disruptions in
accepted hypotheses, because they are striving always to build from
materialistic formulae, and rationalizing from the materialistic struc­
ture as they have conceived it in their ignorance of the higher cosmic
processes.
In view of the evidence which we have in logic concerning the chro­
nology of these great catastrophes which so gravely altered human
living and thinking throughout the world, we must advance the hy­
pothesis that the Quain-Habal catastrophe, the Deluge of Noah and
the sinking of Atlantis were three separate and distinct events which
bore little or no relationship to one another, however much the careless
logicians and chroniclers of the prehistoric period would try to make
out otherwise. Perhaps it has been in trying to correlate the three that
the Flood of Noah, came first, then the Quain-Habal disaster, stagger­
ing the earth and leaving the Drift stretching from Canada across the
Atlantic’s bed, to Africa, then the sinking of Atlantis—the latter event
fairly well down in modern-ancient times. Bearing this order in mind,
\ye shall run across corroborative evidence of strange tenor in the most
unusual places, even though we disregard psychical references
entirely.
4
|ROADLY speaking at the present moment, we have at-
testments in the folklore and literature of many peoples,
that the earth at a very remote date suffered a major
deluge. That it was not a universal deluge, covering or
submerging all lands and peoples, is another important
point to take into our thinking, the inferences of the
Bible to the contrary notwithstanding. It certainly did submerge the
Mediterranean basin, including what we call today, Mesopotamia.
That it also submerged Atlantis temporarily, and parts of Central and
South America, seems to be a certainty, and we shall consider the re­
ports of folklore bearing on this certainty, later on. As for the Luci­
ferian or Quain-Habal catastrophe, that too must have been localized,
in that we discover the legends concerning it prevalent mostly in those
countries or globe areas that were covered by or Were adjacent to the
deposit of the Drift. As for the Atlantean catastrophe, that must have
happened by stages of submersion— and we have certain strange evi­
dence supporting this supposition too— with the final remnant of the
continent going down from earthquake action just before Egypt came
into her zenith of glory.
In support of this hypothesis, we shall first give minute attention to
Atlantis, and the peoples of her colonies, as they were before the Flood
of Noah. It is more or less a foregone conclusion in the agenda of
our peculiar instruction, that the Flood of Noah, whatever its period of
occurrence, was the last major precipitation of vapor canopy or ring
during the period of Atlantean decadence. The Bible declares “the
same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up.” After
the Flood the true rainbow appeared, and the heavens were reason­
ably clear thereafter.
Prior to this deluge-catastrophe, it is undoubtedly a fact that both
Lemuria and Atlantis came to their primes under a heaven that was
partially obscured, under a sun that was little more than a phospho­
rescent glow. We base our assumptions here on the fact that we know
for a certainty that the Atlantean colony of Nilia preceded the rise to
world eminence of ancient Egypt. And it is upon the monuments of
ancient Egypt that we find the ideographs of the serpent-god hacked
and obliterated as though in anger, with the ideographs of Amen-Ra
the sun-god, the symbol of the Universal One, taking their place. We
know that recognition and adulation of Amen-Ra the sun-god
came as a result of the falling of the water canopies or vapor rings and
the clear discerning of the sun approximately as we observe that solar
body today. Therefore, as Egypt was first an Atlantean colony, it
follows that Atlantis before her was in her prime under a vapor canopy
— not so thick a canopy as held the warm, misty atmosphere im­
prisoned under it in the Edenic condition, but at least obscuring the
sun sufficiently to make the worship of the Good Serpent, or adula­
tion of the carbonaceous ring about the equatorial regions of the globe,
a prime factor in the life of her peoples. Therefore we have the time
of the last vapor-ring precipitation roughly fixed, at least for purposes
of sequence in relation to other catastrophes.
IE wonder may arise in your mind here, why, if the early
and middle Atlanteans were ruled by great and all-wise
avatars, they were not apprised of the true cosmic situa­
tion or taught that what they saw thousands of miles high
in the heavens was not a true serpent but merely a car­
bonaceous vapor ring held aloft by planetary centrifugal
force. There is no evidence that those ancient Atlanteans under the
avatars did not have it so explained to them. But in the days of the
decadence, the true avatars were not reincarnating as potentates quite
so often, and their physical blood, if we may use that term, was de­
generating as a result of intermarriage with mortal women, or
“daughters of earth.” The whole avatar instruction in its pristine
purity was becoming distorted, emasculated, watered, and debauched.
We have seen in our own day how quickly a whole people, or the peo­
ples of the whole earth, can revert to pagan theology, or distort, emas­
culate, water or debauch such a doctrine of cosmic correction as Jesus
brought again to' earth. Small wonder that over five times such span
of years, the Atlantean peoples should go back to a type of Shaman­
ism, especially when they had daily visual evidence for their supersti­
tion whirling high above their heads. And a degenerate priesthood
would deport itself with quite as much opportunism, encouraging the
masses in error if it enhanced its temporal power, as a degenerate and
spiritually gelded priesthood deports itself today. Atlantis sent out a
colony to Nilia which arose to an affluence that topped that of the
mother country—a similar situation to that of England and the United
States in our own times. This colony had come to affluence when
the deluge-catastrophe befell the world. The skies cleared perceptibly,
the sun was revealed in all its blistering and blazoning (glory. And
6
men recorded the event on their stone monuments, in existence at the
present hour, as well as in their theological psychologies.
That the Quain-Habal catastrophe was a later event seems to be indi­
cated by the records of mythology, the erection of pyramids, the
legends of the drunken sun in America as well as in Greece, and the
Biblical notation bf the descent of heavenly fire on Sodom and Go­
morrah for their sins, particularly the crime of sodomy or human
mating with animals. This latter notation, you recall, came long after
the Deluge of Noah, in the days of Abraham and Lot. Furthermore,
the Chaldeans and Babylonians preserved accounts of the Deluge in
folklore as we shall see in a moment, and it was of importance when
the first Greek historians began writing. Yet it was even then an
event of great antiquity. Of the appearance of the Fiery Monster
from On High, that event seems to have been so recent that the earlier
Biblical records do not treat with it or mention it, any more than the
Chaldean, and not until after the Sodom and Gomorrah episode do we
find the prophets exclaiming about it, Isaiah in particular. The idea
of Michael and the Host warring on Lucifer and the rebellious angels,
had no place in early Hebrew scripture or theology, which was founded
squarely on the Baalism of the ancient Atlanteans, and on the belief
that at death the soul went into Plutonian Sheol for a spell of coma
until called to sentiency again by the tooting trumpet of Gabriel. Then
suddenly, after the Children of Israel had left for the Promised Land,
taking this Atlantean-Egyptian theology along with them, we find them
contacting the Babylonian-Persian idea of the Spirits of Light warring
with the Fiends of Darkness. The prophets arise, after the thousand-
year Wandering in the Wilderness, and have much to say about this
War in Heaven. The tablets come to light too, in the vicinity of
ancient Nineveh, telling of the visit of the Fiery Monster, of a culture
too late to have been manufactured and buried before the Flood.
7
T SEEMS to be true that Sodom and Gomorrah were
blasted by the heavenly fire long before the time of
Moses and the Exodus. But observe that those early Is­
raelites did not manufacture the idea of the Midianite
God of Wrath while in Egypt. They did not have a
God of their own, technically speaking, till Moses came
along and gave it to them— after he had already fled Egypt once as a
young man for killing a couple of Egyptians who didn’t fancy He­
brews any more than the Nazis of today. He had come in contact
with the Midianites to the east, among whom he sought sanctuary
and out of which he had married a wife. The God which he brought
back to the Hebrews in Egypt was the tribal god of these Midianites.
In the colloquialism of today, Moses “sold” the idea of this deity to
the Jews of the period, and promised them deliverance through Him
—at least that’s the conclusion we might draw from the Bible. The
manuscripts found in the tombs in the Valley of the Kings, as trans­
lated and given to the modern world by Breasted, tell a totally differ­
ent tale. But we shall take up that discrepancy in its proper time and
place. What seems to have occurred is, that whoever compiled the
early books of the Old Testament had a great mass of early folklore at
his disposal, based vaguely on fact, but put it together without much
regard for chronology, so long as it was duly adulatory of the early
Hebrew peoples. We were discussing the Flood of Noah f
e
*
Thai the Flood of Noah was not wrought by the sinking of Atlantis
and that the two had no connection, is abundantly demonstrated by
two pieces of major evidence. First, the going down of Atlantis could
not have caused a deluge, but quite the reverse. The sinking of At­
lantis within the area now occupied by the Atlantic would have caused
a titanic void into which the earth’s waters would have had to pour to
fill it. This would have had the effect of drawing water from the
various seas and lowering them, not causing them to inundate lands
already above water. In the second place, we find the Zeus of Greek
mythology depicted as the hurler of thunderbolts. If the gods of the
Greeks were potentates of the Atlantean royal line, irrespective of the
period, the great Atlantean king represented by Zeus could not have
hurled thunderbolts until after the water canopy had descended and the
sky was clear. There could have been no storms of thunder and light­
ning while the vapor canopy obscured the heavens, for an atmosphere
not subject to sudden changes of temperature would not have gener-
8
ated cloud charges of static electricity, making thunderbolts an aerial
phenomenon known to man. Of course it is conceivable that the
thunderbolts in the hands of Jove or of Thor might have been symbolic
depictions of Atlantean potentates who employed modern guns and
gunpowder for destroying their enemies, or still more possible, the an­
nihilating vril ray that foreran the modern king’s scepter in the form
of the so-called vril stick. The myth of Icarus’s making wings of
feathers and wax and flying into the sun, may likewise have been a
depiction of some catastrophe to Atlantean aircraft which those early
Pelasgians witnessed. The preponderance of evidence all through
Greek mythology points to the fact, however, that the sun, moon and
stars were all visible to the Greeks and Egyptians, because such lumi­
naries have been so artfully and artlessly tied in with the legendary
exploits of the Atlantean gods. If the deluge cleared the heavens of
the last great obscuring vapor canopy, it must have happened during
or before the period of the kings of Atlantis who were later apostro­
phized as the Greek gods, and it cannot have annihilated the peoples of
Atlantis with anything like the thoroughness which the Bible describes.
In the light of ethnology and sociology this is only common sense. The
Bible says that “all things that lived perished from the earth.” And
yet in a mere handful of generations, Egypt is depicted as having risen
to world-wide affluence and erudition on the debris of such universal
drowning—something which a study of peoples shows to be pre­
posterous and impossible. Another point to be remembered in con­
nection with a universal deluge is, that all the water which has ever
fallen onto the planet as rain or snow, is still upon it or in it, or sur­
rounds it as clouds. Despite the size and depth of the various oceans,
there is not now, and never has been, enough water on the surface of
the globe to submerge completely all countries so that all life could be
obliterated. Not with ranges of mountains in existence approximating
anything like the ages which the formations of their rocks reveal to us.
A deluge which involved enough water to submerge great mountain
ranges whose ages go back millions of years, would impose such a
weight on the planet’s substrata as to convert the earth back into its
pristine igneous state and explode them into the skies again as from
gigantic volcanoes. Furthermore, such a stupendous volume of water
would not subside in a mere hundred and fifty days as mentioned
in Genesis. If poor old Ezra the High Priest, recording the fable in his
tower room in Jerusalem, had known anything of geology or meteor-
9
ology, he would have realized what a manifest absurdity he was writ­
ing. Never mind how strong a “wind” the Lord caused to pass over
the face of the waters, it could not have evaporated that amount of
liquid in any such time.
As for the earth’s absorbing such a quantity of water, there would have
been no place for it to go. When water reaches hardpan rock, it stops.
Unless it gets down into subterranean fires, it turns and runs laterally
in underground rivers that are sooner or later spouted to the surface.
If this were not true in both instances, all the seas would long since
have ceased to exist for they would either have disappeared where the
waters of Noah’s Deluge disappeared, or they would have evaporated
into the stratosphere and given the whole earth a universally foggy
mist that never lifted. Those who explain the phenomenon by saying
“nothing is impossible with God” are merely rationalizing to excuse
the ignorance on the part of Biblical writers. There is no record of
God’s ever breaking a natural law in the physical world. Because in
one sense Nature is God in action, and in His natural universe Law is
supreme else Cosmos would be chaos. There are many laws and
processes of which we in our ignorance know little or nothing. But
they do not concern the mechanics of the natural universe in regard
to the weather.
What happened in Noah’s Deluge was undoubtedly a precipitation of
the last remnants of the vapor canopy when “the fountains of the great
deep” were “broken up and the windows of heaven were opened.” It
took about 150 days for this titanic water precipitation to find its mean
level throughout the globe in addition to the water that was already
down. As it did find its level, Noah was persuaded that the waters had
“abated” at divine command for his especial benefit.
Another thing: all peoples have legends regarding the Deluge; but
such legends do not concur that all flesh was drowned and perished
from the earth; again and again bob up stories of miraculous sur­
vival. in
*
Having covered these points briefly, let us examine into the civiliza­
tion of Atlantis before and after the Deluge and the reasons for the
huge migrations in the direction of Egypt.
HERE is no better word picture of Atlantis in existence
than that which Plato has left us, and put into the mouths
of the priests of Sais. To declare that all of it was a fic­
tional fabrication on the part of Plato is an implausibility,
because history shows that men rarely conceive of States
or sociological conditions of which they have had no con­
tact or experience. If this were not so, the African savage, simply by
tilting back on his heels and using his natural brains would be able to
conjure up such a civilization as maintains in New York City, even to
the most flamboyant toothpaste advertisement in a subway train-coach.
When men draw pictures of States or cultures in ideality, it is because
they have somehow heard or known of them as they must have been
in reality. Plato wrote of things which had not matured in Greece,
and spoke of customs and inventions not of record in Greece at any
known period of her history. If it be argued that he simply idealized
the Grecian state, let us fall back on mankind as we know it in the
present. Who among us can depict the ideal American State as it is
going to be in the year 2,000 A. D.? We can conjecture ia model
America, from what America is now, but all such prognostications to
be accurate must be based upon a knowledge of what invention of
the next sixty years is to comprise. There is no call to make an im­
portant argument out of this. Suppose for the moment we take the
words of the Egyptian priest as Plato recorded them:—
Speaking of the Atlantean civilization, the priest of Sais addressing
himself to Solon, declares: “Then as to wisdom, do you observe
what care the law took from the very first, searching out and compre­
hending the whole order of things down to prophecy and medicine, the
latter with a view to health, and out of these divine elements drawing
what was needful for human life, and adding every sort of knowledge
that was connected with them. All of this order and arrangement the
goddess first imparted to you when establishing your city; and she
chose the spot of earth in which you were born because she saw that
the happy temperament of the seasons in that land would produce the
wisest of men. Therefore the goddess, who was a lover of both war
and wisdom, selected and first of all settled that spot which was the
most likely to produce men likest herself. And there you dwelt, hav­
ing such laws as these and better ones, and excelled all mankind in all
virtue as became the children and disciples of the gods. Many great
and wonderful deeds are recorded of your State in our histories, but
II
one of them exceeds all the rest in greatness and valor, for these his­
tories tell of a mighty power which was aggressing wantonly against
the whole of Europe and Asia, to which your city put an end. This
power came forth out of the Atlantic Ocean, for in those days the At­
lantic was navigable; and there was an island situated in front of the
strait which you call the Columns of Heracles: the island was larger
than Libya and Asia put together, and was the way to other islands,
and from the islands you might pass through the whole of the opposite
continent which surrounded the true ocean; for this sea which is
within the Strait of Heracles is only a harbor, having a narrow en­
trance, but that other is a real sea and the surrounding land might be
most truly called a continent.
“Now, in the island of Atlantis there was a great and wonderful em­
pire, which had rule over the whole island and several others, as well
as over parts of the continent; and besides these they subjected the
parts of Libya within the Columns of Heracles as far as Egypt, and of
Europe as far as Tyrrhenia. The vast power thus gathered into one,
endeavored to subdue at one blow our country and yours, and the
whole of the land which was within the strait; and then, Solon, your
country shone forth in the excellence of her virtue and strength,
among all mankind; for she was the first in courage and in military
skill, and was the leader of the Hellenes. And when the rest fell off
from her, being compelled to stand alone, after having undergone the
very extremity of danger, she defeated and triumphed over the invad­
ers, and preserved from slavery those who were not yet subjected,
and freely liberated all the others who were within the limits of Hera­
cles. But afterward there occurred violent earthquakes and floods,
and in a single day and night of rain all your warlike men in a body
sank into the earth, and the island of Atlantis in like manner disap­
peared, and was sunk beneath the sea. And that is the reason why
the sea in those parts is impassable and impenetrable, because there
is such a quantity of shallow mud in the way; and this was caused by
the subsidence of the island.
“Let me begin by observing first of all, that nine thousand was the
sum of years which had elapsed since the war which was said to have
taken place between all those who dwelt outside the Pillars of Hera­
cles and those who dwelt within them: this war I am now to de­
scribe. Of the combatants on the one side the city of Athens was re­
ported to have been the ruler, and to have directed the contest; the
12
combatants on the other side were led by the kings of the island of
Atlantis, which as I am saying once had an extent greater than that of
Libya and Asia; and when afterward sunk by an earthquake, became
an impassable barrier of mud to voyagers sailing thence to the ocean.
“Many deluges have taken place during the nine thousand years, for
that is the number of years that have elapsed since the time of which
I am speaking; and in all the ages and changes of things there has
never been any settlement of the earth flowing down from the moun­
tains, as in other places, which is worth speaking of; it has always
been carried around in a circle, and disappeared in the depths below.
The consequence is, that in comparison with what then was, there are
remaining in small islets only the bones of the wasted body, as they
may be called, all the richer and softer parts o fthe soil having fallen
away and the mere skeleton of the country being left.
“I have remarked before, in speaking of the allotments of the gods,
that they distributed the whole earth into portions different in extent,
and made themselves temples and sacrifices. And Poseidon, receiv­
ing for his lot the island of Atlantis, begat children by a mortal woman
and settled them in a part of the island which I will proceed to de­
scribe.
N THE SIDE toward the sea, and in the center of the
whole island, there was a plain which was said to have
been the fairest of all plains, and very fertile. Near the
plain again, and also in the center of the island, at a dis­
tance of about fifty stadia, there was a mountain, not
very high on any side. On this mountain dwelt one of
the earth-born primeval men of that country, whose name was Ev-
enor, and he had a wife named Leucippe, and they had an only daugh­
ter who was named Cleito. The maiden was growing up to woman­
hood when her father and mother died; Poseidon fell in love with her,
and had intercourse with ,her; and breaking the ground, enclosed the
hill in which she dwelt, all around, making alternate zones of sea and
land, larger and smaller, encircling one another; and there were two
of land and three of water, which he turned as with a lathe out of the
center of the island, equidistant every way, so that no man could get
to the island, for ships and voyages were not then heard of. He him­
self, for he was a god, found no difficulty in making special arrange­
ments for the center island, bringing two streams of water under the
13
earth, which he caused to ascend as springs, one of warm water and
the other of cold, and making every variety of food to spring up abun­
dantly in the earth. He also begat and brought up five pairs of male
children, dividing the island of Atlantis into ten portions. He gave
to the first-born of the eldest pair his mother’s dwelling and the sur­
rounding allotment, which was the largest and best, and made him
king over the rest; the others he ;made princes and gave them rule
over many men and large territory. And he named them all. The
eldest, who was king, he named Atlas, and from him, and the name,
the whole island and the ocean received the name of Atlantis. His
twin brother, who was born after him, obtained as his lot the extrem­
ity of the island toward the Pillars of Heracles, as far as the country
which is still called the region of Gades in that part of the world. He
gave the name which in the Hellenic language is Eumelus, in the lan­
guage of the country which is named after him, Gadeirus. Of the
second pair of twins he called one Ampheres and the other Evaemon.
To the third pair of twins he gave the name Mneseus to the elder, and
Autochthon to the one who followed him. Of the fourth pair of twins
he called the elder Elasippus and the younger Mestor. And of the fifth
pair he gave to the elder the name of Azaes, and to the younger Diap-
repes. if i f
“All these and their descendants were the inhabitants and rulers of
divers islands in the open sea; and also they held sway in the other
direction over the country within the Pillars as far as Egypt and Tyrr-
henia. Now Atlas had a numerous and honorable family, and his eld­
est branch always retained the kingdom, which the eldest son handed
on to his eldest for many generations, and they had such an amount
of wealth as was never before possessed by kings and potentates, and
is not likely ever to be again, and they were furnished with everything
which they could have, both in city and country. For because of the
greatness of their empire, many things were brought to them from
foreign countries, and the island itself provided much of what was re­
quired for the uses of life.
“In the first place, they dug out of the earth whatever was to be found
there, mineral as well as metal, and that which is now only a name,
and was then something more than a name—orichalcum—was dug
°ij eartF in many parts of the island, and with the exception
80 j was ei*eemed the most precious of metals among the men of
those days. There was an abundance of wood for carpenters’
14
use,
and sufficient maintenance for tame and wild animals. Moreover,
there were a great number of elephants in the island, and there was
provision for animals of every kind, both for those which live in lakes
and marshes and rivers, and also for those which live in mountains
and on plains, and therefore for the animal which is the largest and
most voracious of them. Also whatever fragrant things there are in
the earth, whether roots, or herbage, or woods, or distilling drops of
flowers or fruits, grew and thrived in that land; and again, the culti­
vated fruit of the earth, both the dry edible fruit and other species of
food which we call by the general name of legumes, and the fruits
having hard rinds, affording drinks, and meats, and ointments, and
good store of chestnuts and the like, which may be used to play with,
and the fruits which spoil with keeping—and the pleasant kinds of
dessert which console us after dinner when we are full and tired of
eating—all these that sacred island lying beneath the sun brought
forth fair and wondrous in infinite abundance. All these things they
received from the earth, and they employed themselves in construct­
ing their temples, and palaces, and harbors, and docks; and they ar­
ranged the whole country in the following manner:
“First of all, they bridged over the zones of sea which surrounded the
ancient metropolis, and they made a passage into and out of the royal
palace; and then they began to build the palace in the habitation of
the god and of their ancestors. This they continued to ornament in
succeeding generations, every king surpassing the one who came be­
fore him in the utmost of his power, until they made the building a
marvel to behold for size and beauty. And beginning from the sea,
they dug a canal three hundred feet in width and one hundred feet in
depth, and fifty stadia in length, which they carried through to the
outermost zone, making a passage from the sea up to this, which be­
came a harbor, and leaving an opening sufficient for the largest ves­
sels to find ingress. Moreover, they divided the zones of land which
parted the zones of sea, constructing bridges of such width as would
leave a passage for a single trireme to pass out of one into another,
and roofed them over; and there was a way underneath for the ships,
for the banks of the zones were raised considerably out of water.
15
OW THE largest of the zones into which a passage was
cut from the sea was three stadia in breadth, and the
zone of land which came next, of equal breadth; but the
next two, as well the zone of water as of land, were two
stadia, and the one which surrounded the central island
was a stadium only in width. The island in which the
palace was situated was of a diameter of five stadia. A stadium is six
hundred and six and three-quarters feet, so that the island in diameter
was three thousand and thirty-four and one-half feet. This, and the
zones and the bridge, which was the sixth part of a stadium in width,
they surrounded by a stone wall, on either side placing towers, and
gates on the bridges where the sea passed in. The stone which was
used in the work they quarried from beneath the center island and
from underneath the zones, on the outer as well as the inner side. One
kind of stone was white, another black, and a third red; and as they
quarried, they at the same time hollowed out docks double within,
having roofs formed out of the native rock.
“Some of their buildings were simple, but in others they put together
different stones, which they intermingled for the sake of ornament, to
be a natural source of delight. The entire circuit of the wall which
went around the outermost one they covered with a coating of brass,
and the circuit of the next wall they coated with tin, and the third,
which encompassed the citadel, Hashed with the red light of orichal-
cum.
“The palaces in the interior of the citadel were constructed in this
wise: In the center was a holy temple dedicated to Cleito and Posei­
don, which remained inaccessible, and was surrounded by an enclo­
sure of gold. This was the spot in which they originally begat the
race of the ten princes, and thither they annually brought the fruits
of the earth in their season from all the ten portions, and performed
sacrifices to each of them. Here too, was Poseidon’s own temple, of
a stadium in length and half a stadium in width, and of a proportion­
ate height, having a sort of barbaric splendor. All of the outside of
the temple, with the exception of the pinnacles, they covered with
silver, and the pinnacles with gold. In the interior of the temple the
roof was of ivory, adorned everywhere with gold, and silver, and ori-
chalcum; all the other parts of the walls, and pillars, and floors, they
lined with orichalcum. In the temple they placed statues of gold;
there was the god himself standing in the chariot—the charioteer of
six winged horses—and of such size that he touched the roof of the
building with his head. Around him there were a hundred Nereids
riding on dolphins, for such was thought to be the number of them
in that day. There were also in the interior of the temple other
images which had been dedicated by private individuals. And around
the temple on the outside were placed statues of gold of all the ten
kings and of their wives; and there were many other great offerings,
both of kings and of private individuals, coming both from the city
itself and from the foreign cities over which they held sway. There
was an altar too, which in size and workmanship corresponded to the
rest of the work, and there were palaces in like manner which an­
swered to the greatness of the kingdom and the glory of the temple.
“In the next place they used fountains both of cold and hot springs;
these were very abundant and both kinds wonderfully adapted to use
by reason of the sweetness and excellence of their waters. They
constructed buildings about them and planted suitable trees; also cis­
terns, some open to the heavens, others which they roofed over, to be
used in winter as warm baths. There were the king’s baths and the
baths of private persons, which were kept apart; also separate baths
for women, and others again for horses and cattle, and to them they
gave as much ornament as was suitable for them. The water which
ran off they carried, some to the grove of Poseidon where were grow­
ing all manner of trees of wonderful height and beauty, owing to the
excellence of the soil; the remainder was conveyed by aqueducts
which passed over the bridges to the outer circles; and there were
many temples built and dedicated to many gods; also gardens and
places of exercise, some for men and some set apart for horses, in
both of the two islands formed by the zones. And in the center of
the larger of the two there was a race course of a stadium in width,
and in length allowed to extend all around the island, for horses to
race in. Also there were guard houses at intervals for the body guard,
the more trusted of whom had their duties appointed to them in the
lesser zone, which was nearer the Acropolis, while the most trusted
of all had houses given them within the citadel and about the persons
of the kings. The docks were full of triremes and naval stores, and
all things were quite ready for use. Enough of the plan of the royal
palace.
“Crossing the outer harbors, which were three in number, you would
come to a wall which began at the sea and went all around; this was
17
everywhere distant fifty stadia from the largest zone and harbor, and
enclosed the whole, meeting at the mouth of the channel toward the
sea. The entire area was densely crowded with habitations; and the
canal and the largest of the harbors were full of vessels and merchants
coming from other parts, who from their numbers kept up a multi­
tudinous sound of human voices and din of all sorts, day and night.
“I have repeated this description of the city and the parts about the
ancient palace, and now I must endeavor to describe the nature and
arrangement of the rest of the country. The whole country is de­
scribed as being very lofty and precipitous on the side to the sea, but
the country immediately about and surrounding the city was a level
plain, itself surrounded by mountains which descended toward the
sea. It was smooth and even but of an oblong shape, extending in
one direction three thousand stadia and going up the country from
the sea through the center of the island two thousand stadia; the
whole region of the island lay toward the south and was sheltered
from the north. The surrounding mountains were celebrated for their
number and size and beauty, in which they exceeded all that are now
to be seen anywhere; having in them also many wealthy inhabited
villages, and rivers and lakes, and meadows supplying food enough
for every animal, wild or tame, and wood of various sorts abundant
for every kind of work.
WILL NOW describe the plain, which had been culti­
vated for many ages by many generations of kings. It
was rectangular, and for the most part straight and ob­
long, and what it wanted of the straight line followed
the line of the circular ditch. The depth and width and
length of this ditch were incredible and gave the impres­
sion that such a work, in addition to so many other works, could hard­
ly have been wrought by the hand of man. It was excavated to the
depth of a hundred feet, and its breadth was a stadium everywhere.
It was carried around the whole of the plain, and was ten thousand
stadia in length. It received the streams which came down from the
mountains, and winding around the plain, and touching the city at
various points, was there let off into the sea. From above likewise,
straight canals of a hundred feet in width were cut into the plain and
again let off into the ditch toward the sea; these canals were at in-
terva s of a hundred stadia and by them they brought down the wood
18
from the mountains to the city, and conveyed the fruits of the earth
in ships, cutting transverse passages from one canal into another, and
to the city. Twice in the year they gathered the fruits of the earth—
in winter having the benefit of the rains and in summer introducing
the waters of the canals. As to the population, each of the lots in
the plain had an appointed chief of men who were fit for military
service, and the size of the lots was to be of ten stadia each way, and
the total number of all the lots was sixty thousand.
“And of the inhabitants of the mountains and of the rest of the coun­
try there was also a vast multitude having leaders to whom they were
assigned according to their dwellings and their villages. The leader
was required to furnish for the war the sixth portion of a war chariot,
so as to make up a total of ten thousand chariots; also two horses and
riders upon them, and a light chariot without a seat, accompanied by
a fighting man on foot carrying a small shield, and having a charioteer
mounted to guide the horses. Also he was bound to furnish two
heavily armed men, two archers, two slingers, three stone-shooters,
and three javelin men who were skirmishers, and four sailors to make
up complements of twelve-thousand ships. Such was the order of war
in the royal city—that of the other nine governments was different in
each of them and would be wearisome to relate. As to offices and
honors, the following was the arrangement from the first: Each of
the ten kings, in his own division and in his own city, had abso­
lute control of the citizens, and in many cases of the laws, punishing
and slaying whomsoever he would.
“Now the regulations of the governments to one another were regu­
lated by Poseidon as the law had handed them down. These were
inscribed by the First Men on a column of orichalcum, which was
situated in the middle of the island, at the temple of Poseidon, whith­
er the people were gathered together every fifth and sixth year alter­
nately, thus giving equal honor to the odd and to the even number.
And when they were gathered together they consulted about public
affairs, and inquired if anyone had transgressed in anything, and
passed judgment on him accordingly—and before they passed judg­
ment they gave their pledges to one another in this wise:
“There were bulls that had the range of the temple of Poseidon; and
the ten who were left alone in the temple, after they had offered pray­
ers to the gods that they might take the sacrifices which were accept­
able to them, hunted the bulls without weapons but with staves and
19
nooses; and the bull which they caught they led up to the column; the
victim was then struck in the head by them and slain over the sacred
inscription.
“Now on the column there was inscribed besides the law an oath in­
voking mighty curses on the disobedient. When, therefore, after offer­
ing sacrifices according to their customs, they had burnt the limbs of
the bull, they mingled the cup and cast in a clot of blood for each of
them ; the rest of the victim they took to the fire, after having made a
purification of the column all around. Then they drew from the cup
in golden vessels, and pouring a libation on the fire, they swore that
they would judge according to the laws on the column, and would
punish anyone who had previously transgressed, and for the future
they would not, if they could help, transgress any of the inscriptions,
and would not command or obey any ruler who commanded them to
act otherwise than according to the laws of their father Poseidon. This
was the prayer which each of them offered up for himself and for his
family, at the same time drinking and dedicating the vessel in the tem­
ple of the god. Then, after spending some necessary time at supper,
when darkness came on and the fire about the sacrifice was cool, all
of them put on most beautiful azure robes and sitting on the ground
at night near the embers of the sacrifices on which they had sworn,
and extinguishing all the fire about the temple, they received and
gave judgment if any of them had accusation to bring against any­
one; and when they had given judgment, at daybreak they wrote
down their sentences on golden tablets and deposited them as me­
morials with their robes. There were many special laws which the sev­
eral kings had inscribed about the temples, but the most important
was the following—
“That they were not to take up arms against one another, and they
were all to come to the rescue if anyone in any city attempted to over­
throw the royal house. Like their ancestors, they were to deliberate
in common about war and other matters, giving the supremacy to the
family of Atlas; and the king was not to have the power of life and
death over any of his kinsmen, unless he had the assent of the major­
ity of the ten kings.
“Such was the vast power which the god settled in the lost island of
Atlantis, and this he afterward directed against our land on the fol­
lowing pretext, which traditions tell: For many generations, as long
as the divine nature lasted in them, they were obedient to the laws,
20
and well-affectioned towards the gods who were their kinsmen; for
they possessed in every way true and great spirits, practicing gentle­
ness and wisdom in the various chances of life, and in their inter­
course with one another. They despised everything but virtue, not
caring for their present state of life, and thinking lightly on the poses-
sion of gold and other property which seemed only a burden to them;
neither were they intoxicated by luxury; nor did wealth deprive them
of their self-control; but they were sober and saw clearly that all these
goods were increased by virtuous friendship with one another, and
that by excessive zeal for them, and honor of them, the good of them
was lost, and friendship perished with them.
“By such reflections, and by the continuance in them of a divine na­
ture, all that we have described waxed and increased in them. But
when the divine portion began to fade away in them, and became di­
luted too often with too much of the mortal admixture, and the hu­
man nature got the upper hand, then they, being unable to bear their
fortune, became unseemly, and to him who had an eye to see, they
began to appear base and had lost the fairest of these precious gifts.
But to those who had no eye to see true happiness, they still ap­
peared glorious and blessed at the very time that they were filled with
unrighteous avarice and power.
“Zeus, the god of gods, who rules with law, and is able to see into
such things, perceiving that an honorable race was in a most wretched
state, and wanting to inflict punishment on them that they might be
chastened and improved, collected all the gods into his most holy habi­
tation, which, being placed in the center of the world, sees all things
that partake of generation.**
21
UCH WAS the report of Plato on the island and its gov­
ernment which historians now dismiss into the realm of
myth and fable. They declare the foregoing to be all a
fabrication of Plato’s fertile brain. And yet Plato had
accurately depicted the geological formation of an island
continent together with adjacent islands stretching
straight across to the Pacific which science is forced to admit as being
actual in its twentieth-century findings. Could Plato have known of
the existence of islands like Ireland and England, or the West Indies,
outside the confines of the main island of Atlantis, and yet, despite
the backward geography of his time, proceed to fabricate upon them
a purely hypothetical people and a purely hypothetical government,
when the laws and customs which he has thus described for us have
their counterparts in both the Old and the New World, thus showing
the common radiation from a center?
It is something to think about.
The question that perplexes us in this lecture, is why such a people so
admirably situated, so powerful, and enjoying all the fruits of an ex­
cellent living, should suddenly betake themselves into the Mediter­
ranean basin and specifically into Egypt, founding there a new civili­
zation mightier in many ways than the old. Did they know of an
approaching catastrophe? Or is it not more probable that, the At-
lanteans having established major colonies and settlements all along
the Mediterranean basin and up the fertile valley of the Nile, those
colonies not only succeeded to the exercise of the motherland culture
but advanced it when the motherland was no longer able to uphold it?
